of tfje MnitfU §btPhiladelphia Daily Advertiser,
Nvmses 1632.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
Far T> R r P0 0 DS.
f Farenoftn —Edward Fox, No. 56,
f/r j * J south Front-street,
Monday-* ternoon —Footmaji & Co. No. 6J 1
(' South Front-street. 1
( Forenoon —John Connelly, Old City
\ Au&ion, No. 73 fout'h l'ront-ftrect.
' u V" a y \ Afternoon —William Shannen, No.
(_ 183 High-ftrfet.
C Afternoon —Peter Benfon, No. 74
Wcuxefday y fomh Xhi ,. d . ftrcet .
.. f Forenoon—Edward Fox.
Tburfdaj Afternobn —John Connelly.
, ) Forenoon—William Shannon.
L'rtrlay Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon —Peter Benfon.
; virtue of a writ frieri facias to me direJied, 1
) will be eipofed to Public Salfc, at my Ollice, . 1
Knee, or Saffafras street, no. Sl7, 011 Monday, the | i
4 h Jay of Drcembcr next, at II o'clock, a. m. j
ijOj groca Buttons,, assorted
a do. Sliirt do. *
3° Imperial do.
\ 4 3-4 dczin fltoe Buckles
2 pair "uckles with La^cbets
4 I-} dozen Knives and I'orH.s
'X*) 5-12 do. woriled Hofc, t-fforted
57 2-1 z do. printed linen Handkerchiefs
t piece clear Lawn
15 1-4 lb iewing Silk
1 pieces Watk Lawn (Oripe)
5 i-4 yards llriped Carfitnere
24 groce, 5 r-a dozen i'ape, assorted
I dozen Nonfoprctties
1 t-2 groec Tuliy Garters
16 p.: ze% biaci. G*\o*n
503 do. Ribbon, aflorte^
S3 do. D^ndar.ocs
4 3-4 lb- glols thread
82 do. coloured
6 pieces 4-4 wbice French Net
, z.% do. Gauze
, 1 do. spotted Mode
I drab Saftin
1 do. white Fiann'il
I do. yellow do.
1 3 yards ParJatian
3 w .hits silk Shawls
13 1-2 do 3. fiilv and cotton do.
piecet Ferret
3 do Shalloons
I doz. black leather Glovos
1 do. best beaver do.
2 pieces Duckram
I 95 1 2 dbz. English. Fans
5 do. ladies tmfel Bands
z lb* scarlet worsted Chord
12 groc? white cotton do.
15 M chapel needles, assorted
578 yards mixed plains
13 1-2 dez. wcrftedSocks
19 lb. Twist .
1 l-4d®z.l>eft silk stay
5 do. He ft Ferret do.
1 do. iron C ndlefticks
1 piece b!a,k elaitic (Uripe)
7 do. cap Border.
' SelzrH -nd «Wn in cictfcution tJ»« property of
Joiiah \t flUam Gibbs, and Wirfard Gibbs, arid will
be fold by
Wnliam Nichols, Marshal.
M.!-fMl's OJ.C, ">
November 29, *797- dtS
To be fold at the Merchant's Cot
fee-Houfe,
ON the rentji day of next, at 7 o'
cK»ck in the evening, one certain bond or
obligation ciated JuH' b v v John
Love (>[ Alexandria for bimreif, Jofiah Watson
and Samuel Love for_£ftf 10 Virginia currency,
pav.ibie on the 31ft of Otfioher lait pafi,to Stock- !
ley DofiVttoft pr his ifTigns—which Bond the
laid Donelfon afligned to Junes Grant, under
P v. hose power of attorney this i'ale will be made.
Tor further particulars app!) to the fuhfcr.bers.
FOOTMAN and Co. Au«flioneer?.
Nov. 2S. dtiothd
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
! (If not I'fore disposed of at private fait)
ON Friday, the fir it of December next, at fix
o'clock in the eVbuirg, at the Merchants' Cos-
Houfe, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or late in the County of Walhuigton, and Com
monwealth of PennTylvania, and on the waters of
Frelh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
Thcfe Lai-.ds arc fertile and well timbered, and were
patenteed rarly in except 3700 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in 179 a. One fourth
of the purchase money to be paid at the time of sale,
for the residue a crcdib of one, two and three months,
will be given, on int#rcil and gcod feturity.
Qftolrer 6. 3awtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
fjf not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the hrlt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Jmx Thousand Se
voa Hundred and Eighty acr<js of LAND, in the
.State of New-Yoik, between the northern bounds
of Penfifylvania and the Su'quchanna, now, of late,
in the townflaips ot Hamd»n and Warren,and coun
ty of Montgomery. One fourth of the purcbafe
money is to be paid at the time of sale ; for the le
4iduc a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, on interest and good (ecurity.
Oft«ae6. 3awtS
i'his Day Pnblilhed,
tp be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, ooraer of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Bths ef a Dollar,
Ob/ervations on certain Documents
Contair.c-d in No. V and VI of
*' Th'c History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In-which the charge of speculation apainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Lase Secretary of the Treasury, is EULLY
REFUTED.
IV RITr E N Br U 1J! SEI F.
Th's publication preterits a coneife statement
rf the bale means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charaiflers of thofu
psrfonswho arc eonfideredas hostile to their difor
y;anizins schemes. It also cur.tains the cor
rdpnndence between Mr. Hamilton' and Meflrs.
Vlouroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fuli
jed of the documents alorefaid. and a series cf let
ters from Tames Reynolds and his wife toMr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility *1 a doubt,
tliat the connexion between him and Reynold?,
was the result of a daring eonfpirasy on th(t part
of the'latter and his aifociates to extort money.
■fr A discount of one third from the retail price
v. ill lie made in favor of wholcfaie purchaf rs, for
BASH. Orders to be addrtffed to Mr. Yoi/no.
/Wk J ;j.
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER i, 1797
t or Amsterdam,
The sh; p
jiliy EDWARD,
James Wickbatn, Majler, J
EXv*fi- fRD ta I'iii in a few <*<)*% having two <
> thirds of her cargo already engaged, and near i
ly on board. For Freight or Paifage, iipply t* t
the Matter on board, at MorrU' e . wharf, or to ]
John Donnaldfon,
No. jj, Walnut-ftrect.
nnvember 18. dßc
for Amiterdam,
J—«=. The Ship
FAR M E R,
Ri'lJojim M'Co-llom, M after ;
fail in a [cv/ d *y*> thtf
part of her cargo heir.g
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
flreet wharf, or to 1
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour
doaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter caflcs
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac,
Santerne, j* Wines in cases
LunilL-, )
Prunes in boxes
norembfT 24. ___
i. ,- or Liverpool,
y»»s. The coffer bottomed Ship
d£9h£ Hamburg Packet,
Captain Suas Swain.
gays A Large piopaiiion. ®f l*er
cargo being ready togoou
board, is expe&ed to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain on
boa'rd, at Walnut-street Wharf, or tb
PHILIP NICKLIN £3" Co.
November 12. 5
FOR LONDON,
THE SHIP
WILIAM PE.NN,
Jamus Jos IA H, Maßtr.
THE (hip is now taking on board her cargo, and
will fail in all next week. For freight ©r paftage
apply to the captain, or to
Jeffs ts° Robert VValn.
tiov 1T ■
For Londonderry,
THE BRIOANTINE
s U K ET,
Wi'lliam Wuitten, Master.
vA strong gond veflel, about two
hundred *on|, to fail with all convenient speed, a !
of htr cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wliarf. Por freight or paf
/»(*», anply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
, LafiArnlergtr's ivbarf.
Who wants.to Chatter.
■\ Vbsskl of about three hundred tons.
ttoi) 8. §
Fol* Savannah, in Georgia,
Sai b Sutler-,
V Captain Chish&olm,
A n.-.r vessel, With excellent
5/S^-ci^pC=fife^ ? arcommot i a tiont for palTengcrs—
I Sails on the 10th of December. Por freight or
Palfage, apply to ROSS r s* SI ft/ISO N.
Who have to difpofr of,
A fma'l inveice ol G!L.aObE,R. SAI. TS
INDIGO, and a parre! of HOLLY WOOD.
no-ocmbet I 8.
For Hamburgh,
j—The Brig M A R Y,
Pbt»r Yo»k, mailer.
L Lying atßuirel's wharf, near Pine
ttreet, is now ready to take in a
; Cargo, and will fail in tea day«.
For Freight, or PafTage, at ply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
November 16.
For Sale or Charter,
The Sno<w
miA, GOOD HOPE,
Will carry ab««t laoo barrels, and
ready to take ii>a cargo. For terms
*tairi»»iA. apply to
Pragers 1$ Co.
No. 151, south Sccot#'i-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lilbon, and 1 eneriffe wine.
November 7. '
Wanted to Charier,
fy, To one port in Hifpaniola and back
faft failing Veifel, of the bur
then of 6 or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to
r Benjamin Morgan, No. no, South Fro.it Oreet,
1 orto ROBZRT AND.tEIVS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
mvember 10. §
t or Charter,
THE SHIP
John Bulkley,
Samuel Volaris, Majler.
' veffel is built of live oak
w£X and cedar, of about sOco
barrels and ready to receive on board a
t cargo*
yeffc & Robert Wain.
- oa4 ■
For Sale or Charter,
- The fall failing brig
. Brothers,
, Lying at Curling's w.'iart,
> atl excellent iiiiple dcck'd vcfTel, hurthen ahout
' l6co barrels—not twelve months old, and in
cojnplMt order. For terms apply to the master
: on boavd, or to
Jo/eph /'bitheny Co.
nor. d:v.
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefnut Sir est.
the ship
tMjtaio RICBAHO v »" autcoat, r
Froiii Liveryool >s r'."V c
at namißo«>wharf,-year be Dnvbridjp-. where 1
ovvuers of goods on friVht. vvillpleafe fpeei'-ily to 1
fend their | ermits. Sain"yr flVl will dirtily after I
take in freight en very Icw»ernij for 1':- ' ca. .A t- 1:
ply to ihe captain, or to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
No. s, South Water Street. j
A few tons.of (tone, cr land wanted.—
Apply as above. \
novemberS7 §tot. :
Philip Nicklin & Go.
HAVE sOS SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut ttreet Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandorovn
25 hhds. Jamaica do.
30:0 j ieccs of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths o/ chefb
Quicksilver iu tubs
Madeira Wine in'pipe* and hog&eads
Tetieriffe Wine in pipe?
Old ted Port Wine in hogsheads
Sail Canvass, aborted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Maochefter Goods, confining of Dimities,
Mu3hicts, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c.
200 crater. Qaeens* Ware, assorted
Nails, ailorted
Bla-; k quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in caiks
A qiumtify of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
ICO quarter Gun Powder
v 1 Lj\ ba+e alfojor SAL P. or CHARTER,
rJT?-V The Ship
HAMBURG PACKET,
Burthen 310 tors, coppered to
ihe bends, aijd completely fitted.
Thefiip MOLI-T, burthen 340 tons, a
go-M vclT. r, conpkti'k fined.
Tlx brig AMAZON, I Bfthep i jCDhsr
rela, may be rcacfy sot fe» ",11 a Uw day.-
The wheHe of the above to be fcen at
Walnut street Wharf. § nov. ic.
~ Rundle & Leech,
Have jufl. received, and liave for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut ilreet,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. bell house CO A LS
Queens' WAR.E in cases, assorted
Bourdeaui BRANDY of an excellent quality
DOl CLARET in cases, do.
Tury -ats also
"Wit. For SALE or Cht^RTER,
d THE SSIP
PEGGY,
Buithen tons, in excellent condition, and
may he sent to sea with little expeoceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
the brig
WILLIAM,
Burthen 101 tons,
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Madeiti, and Betsey and
Peggy, frisn Oporto, in Pipe# and Hogfheadi,
Fvr ftth by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFTm# SALS,
Tit SIHp
AVIJ r,
Fourthoufnnd barrels burthen,
in excellent arder— ready to take
in a cargo—about three ycar» eld.
LIKIWISi,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen Bos> birrels, alfo to receive a car- j
go-—and a quantity ot
Jamaica Rum afid Sugars,
jufl ht/idtd from the above veflc s at South Orcet
wharf- eorfo. Nov. r.
James ijf Richard Smith,
TAKE the Überty of informing fiiends
and the {Hiblic. that they have remevel their ;
llore to No. 54, Sfc-rM FrcntJtrtft- next dartr to Ed
ward I'ox's Ausion Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large ahd general alfortmetitof
European & Eajl India L>oods,
Many of which are }uft imported in the Clothier,
William Pcnn, &c. &c.
oa., 7. 2
. Samuel Hlsafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Second-fireet,
HAVR received a fuppty of Seufonahle GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
rcafonable
ROSS & SIMSONj
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales B,aftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTION
Bengal SUGAR, in lags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, £ RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, end
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDA.R.
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner '1 wo Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Master,
go hbils. and / T ama jca RUM,
ii pipes ) J
FOR SALB BY „ a
George Latimer C5 3 Son.
November 9. $
For Sale, by the Package,
For calh, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
VIZ.
Book and Jaconet Mucins plain
ftripei, and Cheeks \ Assorted in
do. do v T ambotred ,
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & I 1
gentlemen's Aeek do. J
Jaconet chintz ntufiin for hofrte and the \\ eft
Indii market, Puiltcote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
, chintz [hawls.
•The., above goods entitled to drawback on ex
-1 porvaticri. . Also a few scotch cambricks and an
assortment of muslin by the piece.
1 The whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufaSlurers in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackburn's
Office, No: 64, South Second Street.
Nov. 6. »wtf.
Library Company of Philadelphia*
T6JF. Members of the I.ibrary Company of
Phikdelpbi i are hereb"y informed, that the Libra
ry will be ojia on Monday next, the 4th of De- j
ceniher, for the reception and delivery ot books.
Thole who n»'glcit t>> return the books, which '
1 a ! been taken out previous to the firft of -
bcr last, in the couvfe of the enfuiug wAlt, will 1
he fined as theTult'S direst.
The Loganian Library
WiH *lfo beupeic. for the like ,
purposes. ,
N.B. A few copies of the catalog
books belonging to tliefe inflitutions ciay be Uif" *
at the Library.
Z. POULSON, JUN. Librarian.
Library, uovember JO. '
Mrs. GRAT TA N,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies am! Gen
tlemen of the City, that (he prcpo.'es having
Petir CONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Six Dollais each Subscriber, for one Ticket of
admittance du.in; the season ,
No Subscribers Tickets transferrabl;.
Two Dollars a single Ticket.
The Concert to begin at half past fix, ar.d the
Bind to attena for the Ball at eight*-'the rtpcnce
of which Mr« Grattan engages to uifch.irge.
The Clcerts will begin as fooa as the Band ar
rives fiom New York.
nrvemh r 19. §iw
Ihe City Dancing Atfembly,
Will c nunence at O'Eller's Hotel, on
Thursday December 7th.
Thomas VI. Willing Stephen King/son
James Gihfon William Read
Henry Wikoff Robert E. Griffith.
Managers.
mov. 79th. dßt
All- Persons
Having any demands aga'nft the Eftete of the
late Captain George Irwin, are iequtfied to
hritig in their accourttrpiopwfy auel'.ed, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
and thofc who are indebted to said eltate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SaKAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
Nov. 19 1797. 4
~ NOW LANDING^
From on board the {hip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Win* iu do.
Por Sale, apply to
John Whitefides Is? Co.
No. 138, arket-flreet.
Also, on hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes
Find old Antigua Rum
A few cases of Claret, of a superior quality,
novembrr 19. §
"IMPORTED
IN the /hip Aurora, from Hamburgh, and for
sale by the Subscriber.
Btd titles, 8-4, 9-4, and 10-4.
A quantity »f Tapes, No. 13 and 25.
And on Hand,
German black Ribbon, No. 3 and 4.
Georgt Pennock.
novefnbfr n aawaw
Landing,
From on board the Clip Edward, at Walnut
llrest Wharf,
I.ondoh particular Madeira Wine,
of a fup-rior quality, For Sale by the l'ubfcriber.
Robert Andrews.
no vernier co^
Wanted, by a Gentleman in Virginia,
A discreet, fenlible Matron,
t aged about 45 «r 50 years, qualified to teacli
i ynung hoys writing, ' ritlir.--.etic, History and
I Geography—Also, to ail in the capacity of House
Keeper For further i»form<tlon apply to the
Printer. Nov. 2a —djw
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
ti. e Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
W'ITH or without Board—at No 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
oowtapion. <os. 21 —dtf
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
in [I. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
St*uen Dollars, at Vv m. BLACKBURN * lottery
and Brokers OQice, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
' Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
1 DjlUn, wbete check books are kept ior reg'tfter.
- ing and examining in these, the City oi \\ alhing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in mod of the Lotte
ries aV.horifed by law in any of the States of the
1 Union.
N. B. The business of aßßoKtrn, in buying and
fellin.g all kinds of Public Stock :ind Securities,
difeounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Huufes, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
novemUicr 15. §
" ~FORSAL£,
- A Team of five excellentHorfes K
with a Wagjpn and Gears. The Hoffes are all
voting, strong, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as gteat a weight as 010 ft in the coun
try. The V. aggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBEivT GJviiliN,
Welt Town, Cheiter county, or'iO
Thomas Fijher,
No. 142, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
11 nno. 1, emliw.
BEEF.
, Prime 3eef, fit for India voyages, for sale by
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
l\'o. 16?, High-fireet.
t Also, about fifteen hundred weight of Bees-
Wax. dtf Nov. 25; 1797-
Samuel & Miers i iihcr,
* ARE NOW OPENING,
At their Wnrehoufe, No. iy, Dock Street, a frefc
assortment of Woolen and other gooils, so table to
the season, received by the l;.-te arrivals from Eng
" land.
n Tlet bavc also fur Si'.e,
Lisbon
t Teneriffe (l n pipes.hhds. aod quarter casks-
Sherry, and f 1 1
5 l'ort \V J
Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo- 33d, diwstiWJw.
Chocolare and Muflard,
ef a fnperior quality manufadlurcii,
/"LINGER and Pepper, ground ; &el!ed or
V_> pearl Ba.r!ey ; Philadelphia Porter, Bee,
Ale and Cyjir ; Tauston and Burton Ale ;
London Sorter ; red, I'uit and Liibon Wine,
suitable for exportation or heme consumption.
The higlieft pt k-e given for Muilard-Seed.
Alfa for/ah, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baiiet, a i jricly of colors ; a bale of
I uft£»4ii, Shawls, Sec, for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
1 - I\o. Ig, fobth Front-Ilreet.
. «?• _ mft chit, iJ.
James C. & Samuel WTFithiiy
AT THEIR STORE,
F°. I3i corner ci Arch and Front flreets,
HAFF. VOR SAL Ky
Cotton and worded Hrfic ry m trunks, afFortei
A few bale* red, white, and yelldw Flannel*
Ditto futt romall Handkerihi-is
Ditto Tullicat (Ilk ditto
Ditto Poodickerry and Madrafs ditt«
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taff. ties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few cherts bert Hylon Tea
Aifa —1500 box s bell: London Window Glafi,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhtis. GUf#
Ware, aff'orted, urki-Ji they willdifpofc of cheaper
than any in the city.
November &8. 3awtf
Imported (via New York) on the
(liip Hero, frouijMadras and Cakurfa, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Che/nut ftrect,
between Second an<J Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagong?« Charconira Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins
Gillis Romais Kandannoes
Nil las & Penfiafoes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MullMullhanfcerckicfs Palempores
Patna do. Bans res Opium
Lell'cr Cardinium Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November tuths4W
A farm for sale,
IN Perth Amboy in the state of New-Jersey,
of four hundred a»res, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable and wood
land, and fait marsh : There is on the premises,
a good apple orchard, and a variety of other
fruit trees, it it well watered with springs and
brooks, it is bounded on two fides with navi
gable waters and has a good mill site, its fitm
tion is healthy and pleafaut, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Arabey and its
environs, and aonvenient to the fineft fi(h and
oysters in their proper season, it abounds with
natural manure fr»m which, with the advanta
ges of the fait mai fh by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of hock, may at a small
expense, be enriched to a great degree and ren
dered one of the firft grazing farms in the state ;
it is well calculated for a farmer or a gentle
man's feat, having several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be fold together or
divided, as may suit a purchaser, at private
sale, or if not fold, will be set up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the honfe of liobert Rattoone,' inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
theforenoon. Anyperion inclining topurchafe
may view the premifiej by application to John
or Mattbia: Haljied at Perth Amboy, from
whom or from the Hon. "Jonathan Dayton*Efq.
fpesker of the house of representatives of the
United States now in Philadelphia,
I 'ji.u William fon,\un.efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town farther information may be
obtained, —and who are poflefled of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy,; Nov. 16, 1797.
_ S5 —eodtrßD
400,000 we'ght of choice St. Do
mingo CO IF EE,
FOR SALE BV
JAMES YARD.
Kor Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in <who'e and half tierces
Bouideaux Brandy
Tenerjlji I Fine
Molajjes
Georgia find Carolina Indigo
Rai ens Duck and one bogjbead of pailt
bi xjhes .
N. (3* y. Eraser.
No. 95, Sontb Front Street,
Nor'. 7. j dim
Yellow Fever and Peßilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. o&avo.
By William Young, Bookseller,
No. ji, Second ilrect, the corner ol Chduut llreet,
(Pr'ue t in lourdt ; 8 7 I 2. CenttJ
' Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles established in ths element*
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
[ JOHN BROWN.M. D.
, With an attempt to correct some important er
| rprs ofthat work, and cases in illustration, chief-
I ly feleflcd from the records of their pradtice, at
the General Hufpital at Calcutta,
Br Willi ma 2'atss Zy Chas. M/lClban.
To which ia subjoined, a Treatise on the action
i of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirefl debility
Andadifiertation onthe fourccs of lipidernicand.-
'Peitilentialdifeafess in whicbisattempted toprove
by a numerous induflion of fatfls, that they ne
ver arise from contagion," but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicifliludes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclfan, of
Calcutta.
Nov. it. si2t
To be Sold,
; A Valuable Plantation,
. F upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
Vj well watered, in a heilthy situation, about
fevea miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate ;• large family, at a mode
rate expense, and poffeflion had in a few weeks.
Part ®f the purchase-money being paid, a reafoiv
able credit will be allowed for the r maunder.
Enquire of the Printer,
november 3 mwftf
[VciUMB XII
U VALBANY", Nov. 20.
On Friday fort, ws had a continued fuoxv
Aorm for several hours
tby was stormy. Since which,weather
has been uncommonly cold For this early
f.;afon< The river on Saturday was crow
ded with ice for many miles below —-yet, on
Sunday, there being a strong fout'll wind,
forae vefifels got up to the harbour. This
morning the river is full of ice.
SUFFIELD, Nov. 15.
Departed this life 011 the nth inft.James
Remington, ion of Mr. Shadrick Reming
ton, of Weft-Springfield-—aged 6 .years.
Me was an'amiable, agreeable child, the
hope of his sand parents. In the Herald
of the ill inftact, was announced to the
public, that this child was most fhock'ingly
bitten byamadMog. He had 12 diftiaft
wounds on theface, the right eye almost de
ftroyeJ, and two upper teeth torn out, and
filch a quantity of >_viiu&, or piifon, thrower"
into the W.>od, that its operation has been
i .tal, notwithfta:idiri& much jSains were ta
ken to collect information from tlie mod
experient-ed nefghboring'phvficians, and,the.
child pot under the raoft powerful mercuri
lilcourle. OuTuefdsy the 7111 iriit. the
telh day from tin bite, in tH , e afternoon,
the approaching fymptoins of hydrophobia
took place—sharp,' darting pains from the
w'onnds, in variotls directions, particularly
"to the head and bread—a sense of lafiitudc
and languor, and an aversion to motion,
with cold rigors, fuccjpeded by iijfhes of
heat : the large wounds then dried up,
which had uatill then, been kept open, and
discharged steely—in the night he was rest
less, and disturbed with frightful dreams—
-011 Wcdnefday the Bth, in the afternoon,
symptoms of hydrophobia were very appar
ent, the nervous'fyftem in great commotion
Biid (wallowing fluids extremely difficult.
We (hall jtofs over the symptoms ha was
attended with from that time until the night
on which he died, only remarkingthat he
was for the most part extremely convulsed
in attempting to swallow—On thenight be
fore he died, the raving increased and ap
peared very alarming, his pulse low and
fluttering, his eyes glaring and fierce, his
motions quick and frightful, and his agonies
such os made him change his posture every
half minute, his mind in constant pertuha
tion, often starting, and had fearful appre
hensions that a dog was about him. He
was now ihockingly convulsed by attempt
ing to swallow a tea spoon full of tea, and
the horror of the lcene redoubled by grind
rig and gnashing the teeth, frothing and
Joaming at the mouth—He continued the
most cf the night in this convulsive distress,
■which cannot be aefcribed, until between 3
ar.i 4 o'clock on Sunday morning, when,
quite exhausted,. he funk'back on his pillow
where with a ghastly countenance, and glar
ing eyes, and laborious/ interrupt?d
tion, but free from convulsive affections, t«-
taired the facility of Bearing, feeing, and
kiibwftg hi. friend,!—gave his hand tu each
of the family in the room, while his looks
spoke more than pen can dcfcribe. He
continued until about 5 o'clock, when in a
moment, without a groan or llruggle, death
clofcd the awful fcenc !
CHARLESTON, November 4.
The ofli(?e of Co< ivl for the United State!,
theport of London, istiew vacant. jMnu'a Johii
fon, efni the la' ■ < rtiful, rcfljned his office and
failsl fcr America, before the .tip Sifters Lilt Loa
don. »
NASSAU, (N. P.) October 17.
This d.ryhi»\vor!Vp the "judge of the court of
-vice admiralty gave his definitive ftntence in the
eafc of the Usnilh fhij> I'heo l.ire, Matthew -Bcr
lyman.mificr, from Charleftcn for Ilavanna.cap
turqd by the George and Ophelia privatscr.
His woril.ip wa3 pleased condemn the Ihip
■upon the ound »f James Fletcher, one of the
•claimant", vho swore l»e was sole owner of tH
(hip, being a Britiih fahjeft. It appeared, in evi
dence, t!u.t Mr. Fletcher was horn in Dubli«,and
after the commencement of hjftilities between
Gre t Britain and France had obtained a Danish
ButgheA I ritf,,ihd'fworn to the king
of iSeiftr.ark ; te r his prii cip.l'l residence was in
Ncw-Crlcans ; and- that during the present war
with Spain, be hap been a conttant trader with
that nation. Hii'wor&ip. was alfj p!«fej to
coatltrnn the jr. ptrty jppekY'ihg to be flipped by
Mr. ".lak well, oi Charletton, from the claimant.'!
having had doubts about if, and it appearing that
a Spanifli.pafferg r had offered * bri' c to the mas
ter cf the privateer to hav 'if liberated. The pro
perty (hipped by TvleJlrs. Po tCr and .'.. R.i, of
Charkfton, the claimants swore wst for the soU
account, rifle and benefit of tne ik : nd
none others ; but by an intercepted fetrt# from
Mr. Pitrk it cameoor,u r , that by contrnA made bc
rwccinMro and Mr. Fletch r, before the I .!• r left
Charleston, Mr. Flctcher-was .ne hall interel'.ed
io the property {Slipped ky His Worfiiip
herefort. declared, thst what the claimants ha J
J'vrorn relative to the (bipmrnt by Park, appeared
to be falfe, and coi;d«n.nc4 the one half thereof
us lawful, prize ; acquitting the property of Mr.
J'otter, and the half to which Mr. Park U entitled.
[The flatcrr.cn in the above," that by a eontraA
between Mr. P"-rk and Mr. Fletcher, the latter was
one half inecrcilcd in the property Ihipped by th*
former,'- we areaufhorifed to l«r, is not corredt.
It is only true that in conference of the rcadinefs
he had evinced in a former instance to, serve him,
Mr. Park informed Mr. Fletcher, that if he would
have the woodneft to aflill the eonfigneel in facility •
ting the sale of thegoods, and 'in procuring a vef
f I in which to rsmit the proceeds, he should be
entitled to half of any prbflts that miijht accrue.]
( Cbarlejliin pap* J
NASSAU, (N. P.) Oclohcr 31.
In of the 16th instant, tile ihip
Speedwell, Brownlow.'from Charleston for
New Orleans, foundered in the Gulph
The captain with his paflengcri and-crew,
21 in all, arrived here last erening, in an o
pen bo?.t, after having fcr 14 days, been
exposed to extiemities which fecm almost I
bevond the power of human nature to have j
surrounded, —The benevolent defp -Stioo of '
the inhabitants of this which has
bc-n so often exerted in favour of the nidi- ;
S ent aud diftre.led, we are confident will be ,
the prcfent occasion- and there
rarely has occurred cae which more |
loudly for relief,
%l)t
P $ 1 LAP EL P H / A ,
FRIDAY EVENING, DSGE ".TRSZ r.
For the Gazette of the lPnixed States-
MR. FEN NO,
Finding in vuur paper of the t'n vl:. un
der the Norfolk head, extracts of two let
ters said to be written from Martinique, im
plicating feveral'mercantile hoiifcs in that
1 Kland in a charge of a Very serious n .lure,
(in one of which houses I am concerned)
I deem it necessary, in otderto takeoff any
undue imprelfions which may have been
made an the public mini in regard to myfelf
as well as in juftification of tha house of
Ogden,Charrurier & Co. merchants of Mar
-1 tinique, to Rate th® blowing fafts.
' j Tt may_bcj-« J fiary to premise that Mr.
4 J,.hrr-erran urier, who the French admimf
j t rat ion in .that Iflaud thought proper to
j arrest is not of the house of Ogden, Char
< 'W'sr & Co. but of another mercantile firm,
entirely unconnefrcd with the former, and
the fafts with regard to the money import
ed into the I Hand are Gmply thtfe—The
fanall coin in circulation there is a nominal
thing of the value of one pennyhalf penny
currency.. This being the principal medium
of change, and becoming Vvry scarce, induc
ed some merchants to import a parcel from
England, which importation was not re
. strained by the French adminiftmion (who
have the civil government of the i\Jnnd by
capitulation) until the importers became nu
merous and the quantity imported so great
as to cauft an inconvenience in trade. The
admieiftratson then palTe(l an ordinance, itK
Hiding fine and imprisonment on any person
who (hould make any further importations
of the coin —afid a few wetks after a veflel
arriving from England, having a quantity on
board, which had been ordered out prtvi
ouily to its having bean made illegal to im
port it—the adminiftratioil fcized on the
property of all those, who they could dis
cover had at any time imported any, and
confined Mr. John Charrurier in gaol. In
cenfequence of this violent proceeding a
partner of Mr. Joho Charrurier's entered a
formal protest against the administration,
and commenced a <uit against them, in which
be has hid His. -'..images at £.50,000. The
opposition thus made to the mode they had
made use of for enforcing their edicts, in
duced them to liberate Mr. Charrurier, and
i offer to restore him the (lore and property
| they had attached, which he refufed to re
' ceive, relyipg cm the hws of his country
for rcdrefs. The store of Ogden, Char
rurier & Co. having been in the fame man
j ner taken pofTefiion of, the administration
I made a similar propofalof rtflitution, which
i met with a like refufal.
Althoagh my residence is in New-York,
..I have full evidence from letters which I
have rcceive4 from Martinique, and by in
formation from a gentleman diredt from
thence, that the foregoipg is a true state
ment of the tranfaifh'or.s relative to that
hufinefs—and as the publication of the let
ters in your jrazctte (which have called forth
this juftification) principally pointed to the
house of Ogden, Charrurier & Co. with a
view no doubt of injuring its credit, aud
basely- to vilify it» it has become my duty to
1 counteraa tjicir wrong tendency, and the
falfity of the charges contained in them, by
all the means in my power. As to the
house having imported base and gilt Johan
nes, it is fufficient to declare the alfertion
utterly void of- foundation and infamouily
falle, and [■ never before heard of a johannes
of that description being seen in the Island.
I am fir, yours, 3cc. &c.
OGDEN.
New-York, 281b Nov. 179^.
Juflice to Mr. Ogden demands the inser
tion of the foregoing in the Norfolk paper,
as well a3s any.other into which the extratt
in qpeftjon may have been copied. The
Connedlicut Gazette, printed at New-Lon
don, having also published an extraft of a
letter to the fame purport, will doubtless
notice the foregoing.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 30.
Mr. Dwight Toiler, from the Committee
of Ch'.ims, made a report on t'»e petition of
A in Gray, unfavourable to the petitioner,
which was concurred in by tlie'Houfe.
Mr. Brookes presented the petition of
Grant, complaining of injuries sustain
ed by being captured by the Miami Indians
and kept for three years, during which time
he speaks of having experienced the greauil
cruelties,—Referred to the Committee of
Claims.
Mr. Baldwin presented a remonstrance
from the Legislature of Georgia, complain
ing of the law regulating the intereourfe
of the United States with the Indian Tribes
and also of the operation of existing Trea
ties.—Referred 10 a feleft committee of
three members.
Also, a petition from a corps of militia,
praying compensation for feryices performed
for the Un : ted Stattk.—Referred to the Se
cretary of War.
Mr. Gallatin presented the memorial of
certain citizens called Qunkers, in the name
of the annual meeting of that body, lately
held in Philadelphia. The petitioners, he
said, vtfere present. The memorialists ftatc
the distressed fitnation of 134 of their Black
Brethren in N. Carolina, who notwithstand
ing they have been manumitted, are now
I held in bondage, by cruel and retrofpeftive
. laws. Thefc, and otheriniquitousadls, they
' alledge, have a tendency to bring down the
judgments of God upon the country. The
' calamity lately experi:ncedi:i this city ought
I they fay, to make us eager to do away all
iniqliity. They refer the House to the so- !
i lemti engagements of Congress in the year 1
; 794. rt-(p(,-(fting fiavery, and their then de- j
, tfitminationto difeofcliige horfr-r.icifig, cork- }
fighting, ic. TUifi "they fiid', f" a so- .
k-tna covenant wiili the |Al;n' Vv ; but
fc.ftK* thty -afli, -hn- it been tultillrd ? en
couragement has been given to ff.n'v h«;ifes,
rioting, drorvkenßefs, chamberivg and wan
tonwefs.; National evil.;, they fai'j, pro
duced national judgments ; ttey therefore
pray God to influence the ninds of the
House to do away these iniquities.
1 his petition beingresd by the Clerk, Mr
Gallaltin nio\«l thap'it be read a fectmd
time. This m(iti6h pr-MttSttS a very-warm
I and very importani^afeSte'(.Vhich, for want
! ot room is deferred eiR' 40-ftiprrow)—The
I second reading was epp yfd, on the grounds
;of the petitions containing nothing upon j
j which the House coti'd conttitntiortajly aft, .
and on account of its touching a fubjeft, the ,
dilcufrion of which, ih that House, always j
excited great j<si!aufy and uueafinefs in the
fchtrtierji by Messrs. Harper, Rut
leflfcc, Se wall,. Macon, J. Parker, Isaac Par
ker, Blount, Gordon and Venable. The
reading'.was supported on the ground
of its b;ing the usual course of business, as
being rcfpeftfnl to the petitioners, and as
being it oft likely to produce the best effefts;
as if a committee were appointed to make'n
report thereoa, whatever that report might
be, it would be more likely to give fatisfag
tion to the petitioners, whom all must allow
I fotfned a relpeftable part of the Communi
; ty, than to treat the petition with the cqn
-1 tempt which fame gentlemen had p'ropofed,
| by Messrs. Gallatin, Thatcher, Lyon,Swan
wick, Allen, Bayard, Nicholas,
Edtoondand S. Smith.
'the qaeftion for a second reading was at
length taken and carried—s3 votes being
in the affirmative.
Mr. Gallatin movjd that it be referred to
1 feleft committee, which was agreed to,
59 members being for it. The committer
appointed were, Messrs. Sitgreaves, Nicho
las, Dana, Schuremail and S. Smith.
lhe Speaker read a letter from Mr. Dal
las, Secretary of tfiia Commonwealth, men- j
tidhing thereli "nation of Mr. Egc, as a mem
ber* of the tloufe, that a writ had been
ifTacd for the ele&ion of. a new member.—
Referred to the Committee of Eleftions. 1
(Much having been lately said of the dis
turbances iu Scotland, in confequeiice of
the unfavorable operation of the militia
aft in that country ; the following may
not prove unacceptable to our readers.
It is in itfelf a temperate and well pen
ned explanation of the nature, and inten
ded operafcm, of that Jaw ; and if accu
rately made, (hews it as calculated to af
-1 ford peculiar to the fubjeft in the
urgency of an cxiftiigwar.) [_N.r.Pap.~]
By his grace the Duke tf Buccleugb, lord lieu
tenant of the county cf Mid Lothian.
As it is evident, from the riotous snd
disorderly resistance which taken place
in some of the neighboring; counties to the
execution of the militia nft, that the most
ijifamous misrepresentations have been used
to millead the people, and to prejudice them
against a meafur» which but a few months
before was loudly demanded by the whole
nation, the ford lieifteiiant thinks it proper
to do all in his to cnunteraft the ef
forts of the feditiom, explain to the
people the tftje meaning of the militia aft,
in so far as they ire concerned When the
aft is properly explained to them, he is fat
isficd that the people themselves will fee thro'
the designs of those who have attempted
to deceive them, ar.d who would excise them
to resist an aft which gives to this country j
a force which has always bee;i the pride of
England, is justly conlidered by all
ranks there as their belt and most constitu
tional dtfence.
1 mo. The whole of Scotland is to raise
but 6000 men, while England has at pre
sent nearly 50,000 militia aftualiy embodi
ed, and 6o»oeo supplementary, or addition
al militia, who have been trained, and are
all ready to be called at a moments warning.
2 do. The age is limited by the aft to
young men between 19 and 23 inclusive, of
all ranks and degrees. This age lias obvi
ously been felefted by the Legislature, in
order that the burden may fall as lightly as
possible on those who are fit tied in life : few
of that age being married or fettled in busi
ness.
3 tio. In older to make the burden still
lighter, several exceptiu-.s > jye„(fcajed in the
aft, particularff *ll articled clerks and ap
prentices, and every man having more than
two children born ia wedlock. Tiie reason
ajid utility of these exceptions are obvious.
4to. In faft, it ;s a volunteer militia ; for
it is declared, tliat,jfiii any county the requi
site number of able, and fufficitut men shall
turn out as volunteers for the militia, no
ballots shall take place. Tliefe volunteer
militiamen may be of any age, pro Tided they
are .fit for service, and will be received at a
ny time before the ballot.
jto. In such counties white there shall be
a ballot, it is calculated that the lot will
fall only on one man in 8 or 10 on the lifts.
6to. The men so balloted for are not o
bliged to serve in person, but may find fub
ftitutei of any age, provided they are fit for
service.
7mo. Neither the whole or any part of
the militia shall, on any account, be carried
or ordered to go out of Scotland.
This is expressly enafted by feftion 55th
t)f the aft so that the people will fee how
fliamefully they have been tlecerV-d by those.
who would persuade flienV that't'hey would
be sent to o/to foreign countries ;
and so far are th?y from being liable to be
draughted into other regments, that it is
enafted by feft. 34.
Bvo. That if any officer or other pej.fpn
shall attempt to enlist any m)litia;ppH juto,
any other regiment, such officer fl;ajl ji
very pffence, forfeit 201. sterling, Wild tht
enliftmeut is to be void, and further* to pre
vent the militiamen, even if inclined to en
list, fronl doi:og fu, they are liable toimpVi- 1
fonmint if thev fmpofe tbeftifelves on offi- :
cers, and deny that they are militiamen. *
j 9mo, The pay of the militiamen is to be
> tilt iatne with the army, which is now raised
to one (hilling per day, which, befxdes lodg
ing, clothing, and other advantages, makes
the lituation of a militiaman superior to
most day labourers, and to many kinds of
tradesmen.
They are farther entitled to Chelfea, and
every, other privilege belonging to the mili
tia of England,. :
iomo. I:i England each patifh generally
fubfcribes,to form a fund for providing sub
stitutes, so that the burden falhf lightly on
the men who do. not chufe to "serve m per
son. The'fame mode may be adopted in
Scotland.
11 mo. It is «lfo to be obfervW, that the
; officers to be appointed to command tht ttti
, litia (if embodied) are to be eotnpofed of
I the gentlemen of landed properly in the
counties where such companies of corps are
to be raised—they will naturally make the
service as little burthenfome as poffiblt to
those under their command', harvmg-a mutu
al interest with them, that the country
should be as little as possible deprived of
their labour and assistance, either as manu
faftnrers or husbandmen.
The few upon whom the lot may fall will
have an opportunity of making themselves
known by their good conduft and regular
behaviour to those gentlemen of property
under whose command they maybe placed,
and by such conduft secure to themselves
and their families in future, their good will
and patronage.
After this faithful explanation of the aft,
and from the accounts which the lord lieii
tenant has received of the general good dis
position of the people of, this county, his
grace flatters himfelf, that every thing will
be condufted in Mid Lothian with peace
and quietness :—but he thinks it his duty
to warn those who may be othcrwife dispos
ed, that he and his deputies are determin
ed to enforce obedience' to the laws of the
land, and to support the civil powers in the
execution «f tlrrfr duty—-If, after this no
tice, any unlawful opposition or' tumult
takes place, those concerned will have them
selves to blame for the confequenctte-; and
all persons will take notice, that every land
holder and farmer, and every houf holder,
high or low, rich or poor, is ,iable by law,
to bear his proportion of any loss or damage
fliilained by any person from the violenoe
c*fa mob.
BUCCLEUGH, x.ord Lieut.
Foreign Intelligence.
PARIS, Sept. 2.
Much talk has been made refpefting the
great quantities of English cloths which have
lately been brought into the Republic from
Prujjla, Hamburg, Batavia, The Di
rectory has published a mefTa'ge on the fub
jeft ; —in which they inform, that they
have authorized at Rouen the importation
of 187,247 ells of blue cloth for cloathi'ng
of the soldiers ; 4,100 ells of blue cloth" for
regimentals ; 11,500 ells fcarfet for facings
&c. and 359,500 ells of blue serge and
white fh lloolis for lining. All thew arti
cles were imported in execution of a con
trhft concluded between the CommiGiorier
of the Executive Direftory at Berlin ; and
Citizen TreTcow, a Prussian merchant, who
on the security of the diamonds of the Re
public, deposited with .him, engaged to
furniffi them, provided they were fuffered
to be imported free from duty.
At Havre, Rouen and Dunkirk 220,000
ells were also, permitted to be imported from
j Germany, as also 3,251 pieces from Ham
burg, and 132 bales from, other places.
" The Impossibility," fay the Directory, "of
obtaining in France, on credit, the necessa
ry cloth for the. moft,.prcffing cloathiog of
the troops, and the opportunity which of
j fered to procure it frum abroad for tSefts
which French merchants would not have ac
cepted, and partly for bills, making part of
the contribution of a German Power, the
payment of which was by-no means certain,
induced the Direftory to fanftion these
tranlaftions, truly advantageous for the Re
public, and without which both the land
and sea forces would have been expo fed to
the utmost want. The importatian of
these articles, free from duty has not been
attended with any Joii to the national Trea
sury, becaiile without this co::dition it
would have been neceflary to pay a much
higher price, and the contractors, who re
ceived bills in payment, would never have
agreed to advance the duty.
LONDON, Sept. 30.
At the lAffizes of Trim, no less than 27
were found guilty ef high treason. Tracey,
who is one of the persons convifted at the
above Assizes, is a man of some property,
and a refpeftable family.
An article from Cadi/ ftatea, that the
troops encamped at St. Rocb and Algezi-
Vas, before Gibraltar, had received orders
to March to that city, and that several bat
talions had arrived there.
It is a faft, which comes to us through
the bell channels of information, that Du
potit de Nemours, one of the members of
the council of elders, after the members
were arrefttd, entered hia protest agsinfl
the whole proceedings of the d'reftory
otte of the most manly and fpin'tedgfts which
perhaps (land upon record in the hift'ory of
any Country, and certainly does im'rriortsrl
honour to the man.
The brother of General Buonaparte has
had his firft audience of the Popr, as Ambas
sador from the French Republic, and was
gracicufly received.
Moreauno longer commands in the French
army, nqtwithftanding the late information
he w?s made to g/ve on the fubjeft of the
prtUntied plot.—He will probably find it
fadifuppear speedily,
Jn ebvrfecjnerici of the great quantity of
dollars J:i circulation, the Bank Direc
ton, gave notice in the Gazette of Tuesday,
ihet tliey pean to ifTue geld coin to the a
mount of the of the dollars now in circulati
on which have been stamped at the Tower.
A Coinage of gold seven (hilling pieces is
now going forward in the Tower for the
parpofe of superseding the dollars.
The Pope has concluded anoffctifive trea
ty with the King yf Naples for the- prefer,
vfttion of their refpeftive States against in
furredtions.
Land Tax—All difficulties refpefting
the operation of the new plan said to be in
tended by the MiniJter, wjlleafily be remov
ed. Three Gentlemen, very well calculat
ed for the talk, have been for feme time
engaged in a digest of the regulations pro
posed. The payment*, it is believed, will
be received by inftaLroents, arid of eonrfe ob
viate every difficulty.
The,great disproportion 6f the Land Tax
as it is at present levied, will appear from
the following instance ;—lnthelittle Parish
of St. Andrew's, Holborn, the Tax is
90C0I. a year; while in the vast and opulent
Parish of Mary-le-bone producing a revenue
of 340,c001, per annum the Land Tax is no
itoi e than 4641.1
DUBLIN, September 12.
A very remarkable cafe of falfe imprifen
ment was tried at the afiizes of Rofcommon,
before the hon. justice Finucane and a very
refpeftable jury, wherein Alexander Col
vill was plaintiff, and the right hon. Charles
Lord Vifeount Dillon, defendant.
The cae fhted was, that the plaintiff
was on Sunday the 12th of January, 1794,
arretted on a pretended charge of felony by
two constables, who bound the plaintiff
with hemp ropes, and Wrought him a prifo*
ner to Loughlin, before his lordfliip. That
his lordfliip told the plaintiff' there were in
formations sworn again ft him for flieep deal
ing ; and that his lordllyp further told the
plaintiff that he had an order from govern
ment ta transport any perfen of ba<f char
after to Botany Bay, and that he would
fer.d the plaintiff there the next day ; that
his lordship then gave verbal orders to. faM
constables to take said plaintiff to the black
hole ; as they were taking plaintiff to the
black-hole, they were met by a ferjeant of
capt. Dillon's company, who offered plain
tiff a ftnlling to enlist him in said company ;
that plaintiff having rtfufed to enlist, o\
accept as the shilling, was then very fevere-'
ly bound with ropes and put into the black
hols ; that the black-holt is a dark damp,
arched vault, fUuate under old ruins in the
demesne of hisHordfliip, to which there was
neither light or air admitted, but through,
a small spike-hole cut through a fingleftone;
that the black-hole is not a public prison or
bridewell, but used as a place of confinement
by lord Dillon only. That the person cal
led captain Dillon is the supposed natural
son of his lordship, and that hislordfhip pro
cured for him feme in the army
on the terms of his raising men, to effect
which, that his lordfliip used fu£h means as
his rank and power in the country enabled
him to put in execution. That on the 13th
January, plaintiff was brought from the
black-hole into'lord Dillop's preftnee, mid
after several efforts to intimidate plaintiff by
charges ps fclon v, his lordfhjp declared there V
was evidence fufficient toliaiigth* plaintiff ;
and then ordered him tofeebrought to caps.
Dillon s barracks, where he was kept about
two hours, then hand-cuffed, and again put
into the.btficl-Lolc. From Sunday tl;e 12th
of .January, to the Ift of February, 1794,
plaintiff was kept n prisoner without any
lawful authority, and for the raoft part con
fined in the blcckrlioW.b'ut fometirfces ia the
barracks—that he was bound wifli ropes,
and otherwifr treated with great "cruelty,
particularly that he was for 2 5 hours of his
said confinement in the black-holt, hand-cuff
ed to one Henry Dart, who, among several
others, was sent there by the said lord Dil
lon
That the plaintiff by his confinement in
the back-hole, found himfclf grown very
weak, his health otherwise much im
paired ; 'that during plaintiff's said confine
ment several efforts by threats and promlfes
were made by capt. Dillr.n, his ferjeant,and
feme .of his recruiting p3rty, and by lord
Dillon personally, to induce the plain-iff to
enlist, which he obflir.ately refufed ; that
Mi. Charles CofLllo, who is the plaintiff's
landlord, hearing of his confinement, sent
his agent to Lord Dillon, to know for what
offence plaintiff was confined, but if there
were informations sworn against bi'm for fe
lony, rti'St he might be sent to the county
goal ; aipon which application, and no in
formation of any kind appearing agair.ft the
plaintiff, he was.set at liberty.° fof.c:
time . .ter, at the plaintiff's instance, Mr!"
CofHlo personally applied to his lordship,
and reqtiefted he won id make feme eompen
fation to plaintiff for his illig.il, confinement
2nd great fufferings, which his lordfliip de
clined, and said, " AVhat fignifies a follow
of that kind, or what can lie do ?" This
cafe was stated by Coiinfcller Boyd, with
much energy and force of argument, and
fully proved, to theaftoni'ihmentof the lean:-
ed judge, and of the jury - who, after a ve
ry eloquent and impreiSve speech 011 evi,
dence, from eoan&ller Webber, gave a ver
dift of lixty pounds, with full Jolts to the
plaintiff, who is a poor industrious mechan
ic, with a wife and fever: 1 dildrtn, i,;ally,
dependent on his industry forfupport.
This cafe is literally copied from the brief,
and such were the proceedings;
, • . E. Costello.
Ahv GS 7 fyv, (Jatt•) Sept. 16.
A gentleman n hi arrived in th ? 0 f
f '*"***' tlat '
they/pake a flotp of wer , on board 'of&ftch
as Soldiers, Thefhop of war, it was harm,
had called at Jersey or Guernfiy, but was mt
permitted to land tic Defenders ; they were
then carrMto Gibraltar, -whsre they met vith
ajlmdur rTfufal, after vJuththe Jloop of -mar
proceeded to Barbadoes with no better success,
and, was Jpoke with, was going to Pdarli
nlque.
On Tuesday night lafl, al'ut 11 >.'rhcl, a
fmartfitch of an Earthntmh ires fl-i
town and Spansji town.. J3l '
•,01 >/-■ Sunnier 2.3.
f j !)ti_ Majefly's fz-,: Rcwflm nee,
' cap'. R'tlla, returned to Port R'iyal, from a
<ruife. On SjiurJdy, the 9th of this month,
lie tuas ,'lruci by which lulled four
men and dij iblqd eleven officers, Jhivered the
main top-majf, and top-gallant m.i/l tofplinters.
and so much injured the main-majl that not one
foot abvot the dcck is found.
During her cruize, fbe tool a Spanijh pri
aiier of 10 gum nnd 47 men.
Wclritfdny liis majrfty's ship Albicore,
l'oilur, arrived from a cruise oa the
ip.jit of Cuba, and brought with her the
fSpanifh Xebeque San Francisco y Animas,
from Old Spain bound to Vera Cruz, ,with
. . a cargo of wine, brandy, cinnamon and
pepper, captured off St. Jago de Cuba.
His majefty'9-brig Pelican, on Monday
lad, fell in with a Frensh privateer brig
called Le Trompeur, near the Mole, which
fought her for thirty minutes, when she
blew up. The Pelican saved 60 of the crew.
It is mentioned, that a revolutionizing spi
rit has lately (hewn itftlf at the Carracas,
and that 18 principal inhabitants have been
taken-up, for being concerned in a plan to
tliffeminatc principles pernicious to the gov
; erriment.
HALIFAX, (N. S.) os. 31.
Extra& of a letter from a Magiilrate in the
city of St. John, New Brunfwick to his
correspondent in this town, dated 12th
instant.
f " At 3 o'clock this morning I was cal
led out of bed to commit a man for a mur
<Wt, the 1110 ft cruel that ever was perpetra
ted in the Province.—lt was committed by
a fifncririan on tie body of a ihoemakft-:
The murderer confefTed his guilt on examin
ation ; but gives rio reason why he commit
ted the vile aft—he wifltes to pass as insane.
From his confeffion, as well as from the ap
peajince..ofLtke corplV. H.e .pulled <jut tbje
eyes, ripped the body, and left the knife
p'unged into his heart. T have uo doubt
but we {hall be able to find out the cause,
for I do not thrnic him deprived of his rea
son any more thilri drunkards and murder
jprs are always supposed to be."
[The name of the deceased was Thomas
Kitchen, that of the murderer, Archibald
•M'Neal.]
BALTIMORE, Nov. 27.
Arrived in this city from Spain, Don
Jobs B. Barnabeu, hit Catholic majrfty's
confulforthe state of Maryland.
MARRIED—On Thursday evening J
last, Mr. John Hough, merchant, of this ci
ty, to Miss Rebecca Thompson, of Philadel- !
phia.
(
%f)e©ajette. ]
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY FVENJNCj, DECEMBER J.
jf RIC EOF STOCK S. 1
Philadelphia, Nov. 1797.
6 prc.Cem. 16/"io to I;/".
j prr,C«iit. * lOfi to 6 J
Deferred 6 per Cfnt. T>/g i
HANK United Statu, 2 1 per ct. advance. I v
- ■ North America, 'o to.
Itifuiance Co. Pennfyi vania, fcoroa ptirene.
N. A ftiircj to do. J
COURSF. OF EXCHANGE. (
Or. London, at jOtliye. p,.r j
at 60 dsya 65
at q'o <Uys 62
Air.fterJam, perfiu-dcr 40
i
At an annual Meeting of the Scots Thiflle
Sos'!y, held on Thursday last the following f
perlons were duly elefted, viz.
Thomas Condie, President. 1
Andrew M'Alpiti Vice PreGder.t, and Pre
sident of the Council. 1!
Adam Davie "1 1
George Wilson '1
James Wilson , n I'
Alexander Trumbull j ounci • It
Robert Trumbull |
William M'Phail J h
Alexander Knox, Treasurer. . 0
David Wallace Secretary.
While our learned Chief Juftiee comment- j c
ed with such asperity on those journalists, S'
who in afierting the rights of their country, P ;
have reprobated the injuries and violences Cl
of the dresdful Republic, and thereby haz- a '
arded the wrath even of the reigning trium- ci
Yirs, a prominent And real grievance called "
loudly for notice : Need it be adverted to ? ty
It is the enreei of citizen Bache—who,
while the Plenipotentiaries of the United er
States are seeking fatisfa&ion of the wrongs
of their Country, leaves 110 effort untried to
weaken their har.fls and deflroy the hopes
from, their mifiinn, by rearing the bloody m
tri-color under the very nose of our govern- f"" 1
ment, and rallying round it all the profligate
traitois who speak to France this language. 1 1
" You have been trifled with by the treache
ry of our adniiniftration. Think not of 1 55
conciliation but Revenge. You will find us on
ready to receivij you as brothers, friends and '''
deliverers." ' ' x ur
wl
We do not remember a more severe latire mi
on the memory of Old Franklin, than that 111
of a learned law Chief, w 'ho on hearing the
Philofophcr quoted as an authority, lijenc
ed the Council by telling him " he might 3/
well quote Tom Thumb."
It will be remembered that Franklin has
fomawhtre reirark«d, that cu-eiriftcnt with
•the Liberty of the Press, is the Liberty of
the Club. The council for young Hum
phreys very aptly quoted this authority a- * on
gainfk the grandson.
If there remained a doubt with refpefk to
the arbitrary intentions of the French triiun
jrirate, after the overthrow of the conllitu
•tion, the following pafTage in.the speech of
Ltpanx to the French people on 'their new ]0
vear's day, mu !l have been conchifive. • iC
" May the Exszvtive Dircdory difplav an
icitive and unrm'uing vigour 'is the con-
I D'jcj qf GOYBRNMEST, and may all civil
* " and Whtary authorities concur."
r th,
>ur On Wednesday evening, the Petit Jury of
the the C 9 prt of Oyer and Terminer and Gene
crs ral Gaol Delivery, after hearing the refpec
onc tlve wttaeffes, and the pleadings of learned
and able Counsel, in the cafe of O'Ha-
n ~ charged with murder of Aitkin, in
June last, retired to their room, and in a
re, bout half an hour returned with a verdift of
he WILFUt MURDER,of the HIGHEST DEGREE,
he The prisoner is to receive sentence of death
as, on Saturday morning next,
th
nd In .consequence of the indisposition of the '
Speaker of the house of representatives of
ay the United States, the house adjourned this '
ig day at 12 o clock without dding any bu/1-
:h ness.,
he thc £ (iitor of „ p orcu .
ir. pine's Gazette" has been returned ignora
>l- mut by the grand jury.
8 >
*n P»r the GAZ ETTE y tb. UNITED ST A TES,
to MR. siKtfa,
v- . 1" looking over j'our paper of last even- i
ing, I read with avidity the beginning of j
the extradls of
g» and jury on the fubjeft oflibels—l flatter
le ed myfclf that the chief juftiee, after having
is patiently remained for fix long years, a silent
1, fpe&ator of the most unparalleled abuses
poured from a particular press in this city,
1- against our own government, and the most
r _ eminent charaders in the United States, was [
now b 0 " 1 ? to fttp forth the champion for
y government, and eorred that abuse.
. His doftrine with refpeft to libels ns well
_ as the liberty cflf the press, I thought genr
> ® ral . l y pretty corrcft—Yet *1 mad confefs,
I did not perfeftly understand his nice rea- <
_ foning, where he fays, " every freeman has
e an undoubud right to lay what sentiments ]
e V please* before the public;—dechrmg -
t immediately afterwards that, if upon a fair
trul such sentiments fiiall be adjudged of
. pernicious tendency, the person publishing
. them ought to be puniflied." This rca
. foning was at fed a little too subtile for ray
g undcrftanding—l had from more gro|s rea-
I foniug been led to believe that a person had
no right to publifli any sentiments, the per- f
nirfous tendency of which were so manifeft v
as to fuhjeft him to punilhment.
1 However, my difficulties in under (landing I
t this were entirely removed, wlw;n on reading
a little further I found to my great fuprize
r that in applying his principles he totally
forgot the abuse offered our own govern- n
ment, and all its most important officers.— J,
Mr. Bache seems to have been entirely out rt
of his mind—Thc French, Spaniard, and ai
' Porcupine engrofled his whole attention
Oh ! how patriotic it is to think wholly of m
Frenchmen, and forget what is due to our
selves !
The latter part of the charge unravels ft
what was at firft myfteriou3. The fame /
sentiments now published with refpeft to the a .
French, while yre are trying to negociate,
and which are in the opinion of the thief jus- £
tice, o: mifchrvous toridcßcy. aod therefore
delme puniVimcnt, were on 3 forraer occa- I
fion, when held with R-i'peft to the British, Q
. while we were treating with thtm, by Uj
many thought praise-worthy. I do not fay
that this !»ft was the opinion of thu chief v
juftiee ; for although I might*have a right
(from his silence at the time and since) to
publish such a fentimeiit; vet I find T might n ,
be for it.
TUJs one thing, however, I will venture
to assert; that the public wilj be much grat-
ified if the chief juftiee will fstisfy them ,
how he can with impartiality come out with f
so zeal agair.ft Porcupine, since he «
has for fd long a time pasTed over iri silence ou
the defamatory publications of Bach,;. i„
Is it because the defamation of the latter f
is against oui own government, and the Bri
tish ? whereas that of the former is against fl 6
democrats and the French—l will not be- do
lieve it possible for a person under such so- A
lemn obligations to distribute juftiee impar
tially, to be influenced by such base motives,
however irrtfiftable the evidence may be to n
others.
I will close my obserVations by l-emark- D
ng sis it will throw any light on the sub- no
jest) that I have fornn-rly heard many a H
good democrat when publications in Bache'p ic
paper were reprobated, fay " that it was ne- to
cefTary in free governments to tolerate matiy L:
abusive things," who have, since the publi- 19
cation of Porcupine's paper, said that
" what Bache and Porcupinebothfrequent-
Iy publi (lied was intolerable, and they should I.i
be glad to fee them both fining tip togeth- hi<
er." A FRIEND TO FAIR PLAY. in
fie
Mr. Fenno on
In congratulating the friends of the Dra
ma on theapproaching profpeft of enjoyment chi
from the exctllent company said to be en- Be
gaged at the New Theatre for this season,
I cannot but hope the Managers will reduce toi
the prices to their old rate. They have vat
been entertaining the Citizens of New York
on those terms, and to discriminate between
the two Cities, is not only impolitic but
unjust. Their lioufe here was well attended -pj,
when the former prices were received, but j
many of their best friends declined going at f
the encreafed rates. t
A friend to the old Prices.
C 3* A dated meeting of the American '
Philofophipal Society will be held at their
Hall, at 6 o'clock this evening.
Friday, Dec. I. „eii
DIED—At Kingston, Jamaica, the (
Rev. Joshua His De Cordova, of the He- dirt
*orew nation, at the advanced age of 78 wil
years. The community by his death is de- P°"
of a uft'fill member. anc '
~~ FUR SALE, " p' a °;
Several fonts of Types—half worn • J wi(]
ncluJiL'g l oftg Primer, about 400 weight, in
I ood corxlition, and wuuld answer thc purpose o sent
a country prifttci as wcil as new. /
J"r;quiri©f the Printer nov. 3©. I mci
ivil GAZET7.E MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. '
of ,
ne- CLEARED,
ec- Brig Sally, Logan, Bonrdeaux
led j Schr. Angelica, Foller, St. Thomas
ia- ; Ncw-Vork
in Sloop Willis, da.
aV Sally, gfotefcui-y, St. Thomas
of Fqjc, Norton, Boston
:e. Arrived, flii.p Birmioghani Packet, capt.
ith Kelly, 62 days from Havr«-de-Gnce, which
; he left September zjd.— About ij days
j since spoke the brig Peggy, capt. Atkin
he ! lon, bound to New-York, ili a very leaky
of | Condition.—THe-ztftinlk. in lat. 37, gy,
1,8 i I'ir n' 3°' *P°ke the brig Grace, capt.
si. VV ills, 42 days from Amsterdam for Phila
delphia, all well—Alfi, spoke the barque
u- Mars, Fowler, from St. Übes, on her way
a. coming up the Delaware—all well.
j This Argo, Byrns, is cleared out at Bal
j timore for the Tfle of France.
/>, J Ths Elizabeth, Fullerton, failed from
j the Mole, Nov. 4 th, r.t company with the
V i „^ rl ? ate Ambuscade, arid an armed
i acket for England ; and the following ves
sels for the United States :
r " Brig J, mes, Gemmeny, for Philadelphia
Eliza, O'Conner, dq.
Almy, Cutler, New-York
s David & George, White, do.
<> Fanny & J 3 ne, , Baltimore
Ruth, Towfon, Rtiode-Ifland
16 Schr. Swalloitf, Doane, Philadelphia
r Prehdent, Hughes, New-York
Amphitrite, , Baltimore
11 Intrepid, Wilkinfon, Norfolk
r And several others, names vnknown. 1
' Left at the Mole, the *
Ship Ardent, Reasonable of Baltimore 1
s .P°lly & Nancy, M'Night, Alexandria
5 Brig Fanny, Smith, Salem 1
3 Maria, Mariner, Philadelphia fort-rial !
J] Dispatch, Nobis, New-York '
Polaflci, Parson*, do. i
? Inauftry, Bayley, Port-au-Prince
Katy f Cutts, Jamaica 1
Hii-am, Bowen, do. I
I ~C li° ' for trial '
Sloop Harry, Baily, off Gloucester, for c
North Carolina, and several other American t
; vessels detained for salvage. I
Netu-Tork, Nov. 29. <■
ExtraS from the log look of the brig Peggy,
capt. Atlinfon, arrived here yejlerday from
Amflerdam,
Sailed from the Texel Sept. \JI, in company I
•with thefhip Jane, of Maehiat, capt. Inglu
bound home to touch at Madeira, and ship Au
rora, of Charleflon, Brown, for Bourdeaux
andjl:ip Harmony, Earl, of and for Charleflon
Sept. 26, off Plymouth, was boarded by his
majejy's cutter Ccnfitutien, capt Wm. Wiftcr
of 12 guns—Ttfd pilotely and difmi/Jed.
32d, off Ufbant <u>as boarded by his majefly's
ship Pompty of 74 guns, in c«mpany with the
Leviathan, of the fame rate, on a cruife —used
as before and dismissed.
2 id,fpoke a French brig of war, prize to the
English.
26th, was botrthd by thefnow Aim, of 0
Live,pool, a letter of marque, to Martinique, .
Captain Guite, out 18 days Jh; had 16 guns ;
.used as above and dismissed.
2 8 th. was boarded by theJblp Mohawk, pri
vateer of Briflol, 28 guns, capt. Bechbound
home off a cruize, had taken two Spaniards.
Nov. 5. spoke thefhip Cleopatra, capt. Con
nor, if and from Baltimore, to Bremen, out 11
days, lat. 39, 10, long, 57, 54, 4// well. J
ith. spoke a brig from 80/lonlt Surinam, out
5 days, lat. 38, 9. long. 61, 26.
loth fat. .37, 39, long. 62, 55, spoke the
Jl'ip Birmingham Packet, of Philadelphia,
capt. A-Iby, from Havre de Grace bound*home \ p
out 49 days. Informed mt that cap:, jfohnfon, I al
the ship Cignet of Ne-jj-Tork, and captains C(
Tuly and Cijlen, were at Havre de Grace.
I Ith fboi:- Jloop Liberty, from Rhode I
flmd to Africa out 4 days, at 10 A. M.
do. spoke the ship Harriot, capt. Neil, for
Amflerdam, lat. 38, 5, long. 63. 30. ±
Boflon, November 24. f e
Arrived, ship Eliza, Hutchins, Batavia, to
137 days.^
Left at Batavia, July 6, Gov. Bowdoin,
Doliver; Minerva, Loring ; Polly, Dela- a "
no, ready far sea, capt. sick ; John Jay, " c ',
Hafwell, (seen to piss Princess-Island, July ha
10 ;) snow Panther, Witrtpcnny, of Bos
ton ; Sifters, Ray, , Hodges ; ,
Lambert of Salem. At St. Helena, Sept. t0
19, Joanna, Coffin, of Nantucket.
At Havanna, Jay of Botton. itr
Wrecked, Two Sifters, Delano, from an
Liverpool for Boflon. The wreck of an
high decked small schooner was lately seen
in the Gulf stream. Her malts gon» and
flerii principally floated away. No person
on board. Lll
Sailed from Batavia, July 6, Star, Bur- ' v ;!
chemore for Salem ; Sarah, Pollard, for .no
Boston. pei
Twofmallpilotboatsfitting out at Charles
ton, §. C. fufpedted to be intended for pri- of
vatCers, were, lately seized.
inn—man of
Tranjlutions from J'aris papers. g c i
. . —. . att:
The following Political View is translated from ton
No. 4, of the Narrateur Impartial, a new
paper lately eltabliffied at Paris, and condutfl- "
ed by several literaryfbaratfte s. Cit
POLITICAL VIE W I
Of the Situation of the French keptblie.
If we believe the violent of botft partirs, it
would J'eem that we are Inavery critical fitua- , pp
tion ; the ißth of Fnu£lidor, though it feme- in t
what changed the face of things, destroyed of,
neither the hopes of the one, nor the tears of bav
the other. Ric
One psrty blames all the appointments of the
diredUry, /Venires if it goes on thus, its reign
will be short. They eternally cry opt, it is im- .
possible for it to eJcift, unlefa it unites itfelf to, A
and makes a common cause with the republi. (i or
caiis ; and that in order to be completely viflo- (j rc
rious in this revo'ution, it Ihould join with their tow
party. The government, faithful to its plan, r [, e
wishes to fleer clear of both parties, and put an he r
end to every thing that may tend to excite dif- the
fentions. _ -y
.According to the other party—the govern- elep
trcnt is nearly at an end; it cannot be maintain- E
Ed • its want cf finances al.mc, mi,ft dtftrov it,
yT. independent of interior and exterior enemies.
( It is tyrannies!, it is fnnounded only by villains
that are execrated by all goo i men ; it krepi
the councils under its road, and makes them al
as It tnmks proper. Its financial measures are
condemned, and, will never meet with fuc< ef& •
2UX j L" ,f we believe this party, it is imuoJlible
mas J f< r hs to exist as a republic
ork I The above are the opinions of the different
patties, as expreflei) b th in private converfa
nas Uon anJ t!]e P" bli,c P ri,)te In the midst of these
ton ' F ' a^' t - S 3re iomc P eacei *b' e men, who honeffy
wish tor the public pood, but are not poffefTed
j? f lufficient courage to undertake any tline for
ich its attainment. Such is the state of parties, both
3 ys <" the capita! and the departments. 7n such a
in- Ctuatieo of affairs, it is impoijible to determine
ky y^ lJt w '" therefult, particularly as it is pru
' dent not to tell the whole truth.
' However, in examining with impartiality the
t proceedings of the two Councils, and the Ko
1a- verument, and the p. fit:on of our armies, the
[ue lituat.on of ihe republic appears less critical,than
■ay the violent and famous would wiih to make it
appear.
al- „. Tl ! e counclls again aft according so the con-
Uitution, and every thing announces that ca!m
ntfc and cool reason preside in their delibera
,m tions.
he The directory appears sensible of its power,
ed Its public and private adU display firrnriefs and
:f- energy. It makes many enemies tit kno vsalfo
who those enemies are, and seems to brave the.-n.
J a It appears willing to profit by its via»rv, but
not wish to divide it* triumph with a certain
party. Neverthelcfs, it wishes to put all those
out of the way, who are not attached to t!ie
constitution of the 3d year, and its orders to the
re minilters to purge their offices of all fuch.tl ar
iy proves it jits decrees relative to the emigrants, I
; a its meflage to the councils on the law of the 1
k 19th Fruilidor, announce a firm intention to rid '
itfelf of every thing which it believes opposed
to the constitution. All this, h iwever, has no
effect upon its obflinate enemies, whom experi- 1
ence of numerous defeats, ought to have con.
Winced that they will yet have a long time to
-e " ru 2g'e> without any solid hopes offuccefi.
a Tpe diretfory have fruflrated part of their 1
n plans, yet, others are likely to be laid at the t
expence of fullering humanity. Already the 4
" germs of a New Vendee ap;-<rar in the weft ;
k Midi is a f.-ene of tumult, and our present calm ,
is but the pref.ige of a florin,
e M herefure all these manoeuvres ? What ad
a vantages do they expert to derive from these
plans of devaluation? MalTacre and death ! Hu
, man blood will flow at the gates of Vienna,
and the shores of the Loire will again b$ ftrew
r cd with .mutilated carcases. G fad and plain- ,
a tivehumanity ! When (hallthy accents be heird?
Unfortunate country 1 When shall tbr chil
dren cease to destroy each other ?
May our wishes be realised, may humanity
3 have n0 more cause to sigh, and may the men
of every party be convinced, that it is time
the french people ihould become a nation of
y brothers. t
'J —— m f'
FOR SALE,
* By JOHN MILLER, jun. Co. i
n No. sj,Oh«lnut-ftreet, t
s One hundred and eighty Met ' e
r BENGAL GOODS, *
Amongli which are,
s Gurrahs MaunooJies r
f Baftas Sannas
I Giizz.'Bahs Tanda Codies
Guzzies Emeretioi
Blue Cloths Calicoes
e Palampoors Romall Handkerthiefi
Amongli them are a great proportion of the
f jaauufa&ory of Patna.
December i. 5 i
. 10 he Sold, '
A Bill on Richmond, p
Payable at fight. Inquire at this office. a
i Dec. 1. 21 r
■ tl
A Compting House to let.
I A convenient Compting House is now for
A line on Rofs's wharf,, directly over the arch.
For terms, apply to
Samuel Breei, jun.
No. 89, fourh Third
Where may be had,
> A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about 100 r
; j pieces of stout Canvass; a fniall quantity of Mace,
,;an ! fomehigh proof Brandy ; Sherry. Wine, Oho- J
r cola ein boxes, Wiudow Glass of various fees
and dinienfions. Dec. I.'— eo6t M
■ * in
Enghfh Grammar, ed
The second edition, with improvements, so,
ADAH I'ED to the different classes of learners; 0 f
with an appendix, containing ru'es and ob- vci
fervations for a (lifting the more advanced ftudeuts Pa
, to write with perfpiruity and accuracy. ful
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully t0
anfwets the profeffions in the Title. Theappea- ! atl
dix contains lome of the best rules for writing e- ""
legantly, and with propriety, that we recollect to ai "
have seen." n | a
Monthli Review, July 1796.
" This Grammar is, on many accounts entitle , if ,
to commendatory notiae, its materials have been fro
carefully and judicioully leleifted ; its araangemeiit and
is diltincl and well adapted to the purpose ot inw ufcl
(truiSion and its expreffios is simple, perspicuous ed
and accurate, &c k " on ,
See the chara&er at large in the Analytical, ma
Review, July 1791, inn
Engliih Exercises, ' !
' Adapted to the Grammar lately publilhed by phi
Lindiey Murray, confiding of exemplificatian of in <
the parts ot speech, in.lances of falfe orthography, the
violations of the rules of fvncax, defects in punc
iuation, and violations of the rules refpeding D;e
perspicuity and accuracy, designed for the benefit
of private learners, a» well as tor theufe of schools.
"Wu have been much pleased with the perusal ' Ot
of these Exercises. They occspy with diflinguilh- 'pi
ed excjllence a moll important place in the feience '
of the English language; anil as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of flea
Schools, as well as t<* all those who are desirous of A
attaining correitncfs and precision is their native
tongue." the
Monthly Review, Jnly {797, y eal
The above Books are for sale at Joseph & James t *' ou
CittiKSHANKS book store, No. 87, Market llrect. or l:
December I. 3tawaw. actc
The Subscriber intends to make w!^
applicition for the renewal of a Certificate of a Shart
in the Bank of the United Sores, (landing in the name .
oM.B daicd July it, 1797. the fame
having been lotl. jO.IN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1.
To be fold, T
An ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two '
story brick Hp oft and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, Sec. situate on the Inlh traS lane, in rhe i 1
ttownfhip of Moyamenfing. about one mile from " r |
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will . '
he m 'de known upon application at the office of S ain;
the Philadelphia Gazette. accol
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
elegance, llant! unrivalled.
DLceciter |. dtf no
TliCi.
Pojtfwcly ihc La/I Night.
'ins, At O'Ellers's Room,
r, p n °M kvem^'
are VV U 'P \ L lEUS v " ' LLIAMSON; '
! e fi! VV 111 P relsm ih " «'«"■< W«h a new spec io. rf
llible ente-rt itsmcut, called
The Tablet,
SS! R ' time.
hefe Readm « s - Rcc,ta ' , *"f 3 part,.
C fT-d ° vfr « ur «—Orand Piano Forte, Mr. Carr,
f Address—Mr. Chaltuer-.
,°l S p n fr? ar ,^ lor '» Ha ". Mr. VViliiamfon.
' Collin, s Ode to Mutic, Mr. Chain,crs.
Ch 1 Song-Paddy O'Blarniy, Mr. Williamfon
"ne PARI- 0. i
iru " ~ . Soaya—Piano Ports, Mr. Garr
Spirit of Contradiftioii, a Comic Taic, Mr. Chal
the mers.
(to- Sorg—Ellen ;or the Richmond Primrose Oir!
the e Mr. WilWon. '
han Spontmg Club and Djrto*,. better, Garrickand
cit s » London Taylor, Mr. Chalmers.
8-1 he Cottage in tne Grove.Mr.Wrlliamfon,
on- 1 AR.I 111.
'm- _, Pot Pouri—Piano Forte, Mr. Carr
•ra- C »f the Hare, » n d A!ivice , 0 f.
diet, from Somsrville and Thompson,
er c r "^ r ' Chalmers,
nd *°"S~ The Hare Hunt, or Virtue and Merit Mr.
Ijo r " llhamfon.-
parapKrafe en Shak'fpeare's Sctcb Age,, reei
>ut Snn V tatloa > Mr Chalmers.
■= r 1 "*££?■•
t TfvsssP?-***
S^?— The Hobbies Mr. Willh m f on .
Price of adta flion One Doll r r- i .
h ' ReDofi» ad " lh !t Lar ° f th '"' hotd ' at C-'avr', M ufiS
he RepoOtory, raid at Care-/, Eo „,, ftore> Marku
ed To begin at half pa st (5x o'clock precisely
n ° wirm!' CU *** Wi " be '°k»ep the room
ri * December r.
» rHF At'Rn. -
"title Eni,n.„ iu f ;
8 +th December. Evening n «J
i- _ WIGNELL far REINAGLE.
f e December i.
;; bush-HTLL;
v- December* I, 1707
v f . partnerlhip between us, is this c.y dii
jj solved ky mutual consent.
.1- William Battt,
3* , William Darlev.
I D A n~CT¥G:
» e v v, Mr - Br RHE,
:>f the New Theatre, returns hi, sincere thanks
to the Ladies and Gentlemen that konored him last
• fcafon—His Academy will open id Dcrpmi
- O'EUers's, Tuesday Li S.t&,£SSg£
eleven to two for young Ladies, attended by M®
th* rH si " f day> thc asterno ')n from -
three till fir for young Gentlemen ; and in t£
evening, of Thursdays and Saturdays from si
till nine for Gentlemen. Please L7pp,y ™t u
Academy, at the hour, of tuition
Mr. Brast's fi'rft Ball will beon Tuefdav i^th
For Londonderry,
The American Ship
5 k BOSTON PACKET,
- CorT ™ T KWT, Mafter,|
..earVine-ftreetJ^rel^ 31 Wh"f
paffenjers—will fd X »«ommodat.ot,s for
about the icth inft. 'invine ai! '! Crm " tln S> on or
ready to 50 0.1 boar,t For paffl T
- the captain. pa%,, only, Jpp ] yto
Smith {s* R.id?wciy,
ir No 4, North Water fttreet.or to^
Jfaae Harvey, J un .
December 1 S ' S ° Uth Watcr ftlcet
_ §ict
Salisbury Estate. "
THE Sabfcribcr, to contra# M, k r
ness, offers this' ElUte for fie of
terms. On it are one Blj,l and three' Air R,
» complete Boreing Machine, and a very
Mill, with two pair o! (tones : also a r 5 .
- in perfeft repair, as aie all the Water Works ° rg? ' £
ed with thefc various branches. The Air p° nnef *
were lately built | or the purpose of «£n/r
for this State—There are,bC two th ' ?
; of Land, one half of which i j under wood th ,C . rcs
■ very fine arable Land, producing the bed' T
1 Paflure. The Cannon lately msnafatWd
fully proves the excellency of the metal 1,
luperior to any in this country, and proba'blv r '?
to any in the world ; for not one ofrtwlj "5" 31
lately made, although some of the u
into 32 pounders have fail.d on proving Th r
ation ts very eligible, particularly f or ,w« J l i tu t
manufadure, arfd a place of arms 1 * f n Ch of
of Com,ea,cu. ,nd only 30 m,l cs
mg, on the Hudson's nver,and having rverv aijl
.»ge that can r f fu|t f om a plenty of water iff
from 1 Urge n.W pmd, very near thp r S
and wh. h .nay be converted into a variety of'™T'
ufcful purpolcs, 'I he purchafrr can beaccomL j
ed with all the flock and utenfi's, and have ZTftT
onor before the firlt of Junonext,' ,„i P ofr -ffi r '»
may be madein m.Vtimefor goingilS'' 0 "
mediately thereafter, (of every part will h- 1V j
ir, good order, w„h s ome eoal, 'L
term, , po |y to Mr |ofeph Anthony, i'n Phil J?'
phia; Divid Brooks, Eq. one of the R»n/ t ■
in Congress for ,h„ Staie" Mr,
thepremifes, or to in New YorJ" 1 °"
Dee. ~ WILL,AM NE ILSO N .
3»wtf
| TO BE SOLD, ~
Or Exchangedfor Property in the Country,
ihat three story Brick House
n .f° f X Sr t noXth T,iird ftrcel - A PP'7 at the of!
! of 1 ,zcttc -_ n °y. 19- w&s+w
A person well acquainted^vTth
t'> € the °n- "f book-keeping, who has keen many
years cpgagid mbufinef, , or h™fdf a: ld other,
Vould be gla.l to bt employe,., either a, an agent
01. laJor; 01 in porting books ; ftattng unl'ettleil
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in Frenaii orEnglia,
A note adtU effed to J. A. and left at this offi-e,
wtll be nunifnally atte:uled to.
November ,y. , v , tf
r | n HE partnerlliip between John I#stone and
X James Bacon, under the firm oflnlloneand
' 0n ' » thls f." di.Tolved by mutual confcnt -
All person, wh, ft.nd indebted to fa d firm are
req,efted to tnaV, immediate payment of their
j effiLiftiye accou. t ; , to John Skvrin, on Landen
bttrrer. wharf, is duly authorised to recede
the lie, and all jierfons having any deman '
gainit the laid firm, are desired "to
account; immediately to him for fettl mr, t.'
% John Injlcnt,
Jamt: Bacon.
noverubcr 9 0. , aor ; tfFOR SALE—\iy the Subscribers,
' An ciegant alfortment of Madrafs
HANDKKRCHiRPS, by the-bale.
WILLINGS £3* FRANCIS,
rov SI. 5 Penn-lreet
_ -p QR SALE;
js3* THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firil quality, in
pipes
Midsira Wine, New-Yerk quality, in pipes
IMlnn WINE, iu pipes
NUT^H't'J of the lttifl importation, Inbrtxes
Bpinilh Wi 01, in Bales, suitable for Hattets.
Witlings ?3° Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. 2r.
Nov. 1. wScstf
fo^Tsale,
by t 11E Subscriber 6, No. 21, Penn-ftreet.,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Cvnfifling of
tlaftas/of various qualities & prices
0.-'f;"-s Punjum Cloth*
Strain Guzz y do.
Hun-.H'jniJ, Chareonna Dorea
Blu" Cloth Tanjtlis
Chintz a-r-d CalicojS Mulmuls
Moßtncdys Checks
M.ihi: ,:gonges Patra Hhkfs.
Gb.i. ' —'.s KSultr.ul do.
Guz7.mas Eanrlannoss
O.urrahs fiiflcrl'oy
Pin'i-fcoes Choppa Romals
fcaV.U'.nys do.
Gillie I'.tmjali Pcrfunsof variouscolours
Mock
2?o tons SHG R
90,000 lh. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of th~ Ganges arc now open and exposed tp falc: t
lliar commodious (lore the portli well corner of
't and Fourth t>r»et. ' 1 to.
L A W I) i S G,
trom on hoard the (hip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, fr«m Ivoudon,
. 60 tons of the belt clean Russia
* HEMP
60 calks ot bottlea*B < <OWN STOUT.
F or*;ale by the fubferihers, No. 21, yenn-fireet.
' Willings & Francis.
Ocl. 31. d
just arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the ftfbfefl
bers, at, Penn-ftreet,
(tfl hog(hcadi,"~)
tierces C Prime Coffee
SIT, barrels (
-646 bags _)
Willings lif Francis.
■■ pa. is.
FOR SALE, n
Joseph Anthony £s* Co.
No. 5 Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bcurdeaux Brandy, id and act
proof, ju*l landed
2jo bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior qualify
9 cio, lSiUf.it, do do
A quantity of heavy blac\ pep[«r in bales
Bourhon In lig;0 of the fir:U]uality
- High proof Jamaica ipirits
C!i London particular Madeira wine ? In pipes &
tio. mirket f Cdifa.
"New England ram in
Genuine Holland Gin. in pipes
CJ<irct in caC s
Speim '.cetj candles andftrain d oil
Piime tioftoi beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in do do
Bed Bofion Mackarel m barrels of the fall farft
New-Enp*and tdw l : atn
A few tons of Rullia cordage
RuSia feather beda
Clover and Timothy feedia :alks
Long whale bone
No i, a, anfl 3, Boston duck
A few chests firit quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass wars.
N vember 8- d?.w t
NOW LANDING,
At South-ftrcct Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Bitavia.
About 300 tons firll quali y Java Coffee (the
whole having heen felt-tied) 4 '
80 tons Java Sugar, ia canillers and bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR SALS Br
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Jail landed froni (hip Amity, from Jamaica.
20s hhds Jamaica Suifar, and
170 do. do. Rum. (
november 13. dftw
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUSALL presents his
most refpe.ilful compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, and re
turns his most grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expeticnced for
these twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school will be
open'd on Wednesday the 23d instant, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walnut-streets. To begin at 10 in the m»rning
for young ladies, and i in the Jvemng for young
gentlemen.
£3" PradUfing Balls will commence on Tuef
dsy, 6th December, and be .continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
Nov. 17. 2>wtf.
Musical In ft ranient Manufadory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMOHY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, tfrtf he has
now ready for file, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Poises, with
Pedals,pateut fwe'.l, fonopahaat and Fr. uch harp
(lop, which for sensibility of touch, bri'liancy of
tone, fttnplicity and durability of conflr j ition, the
faperiority of which,he flat'er* himlelf, J single tri
al will convince the uifprrjudiijed judge—:i.s they
arc manufailured under his immediate infpedior ,
of the very he*, feafened nuterials.he can fell o 1
reasonable terms forC'ASU. laftrani'd ts repaired,
tuned, °ic.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex ■
change for new.
nvf/e itt/er 18. 3faw2mo.
All Persons who are indebted to
theeftate of Wji.liam HersnAM, fen. of Phil'a-.
delphia, deceafcd, are reqaefted to make fpeedjr
payment; and those who have an,- d;a.ind, -
gair.ft said c.lste, will plcaf.- t'i prtf ::it them,pre -
perly at tiled, to this fubfcribcr.s.
William Heytham, ')
Robert Ih'-Jkam. J. Executors.
Francis Buives Say re, J
nnvrnbr 6. Jaw4w
Tli ->M AS RAND AL L,
P&LSgNTS hi v refold to h> Fii nds, and the
Pulilic in getKr ~ informs them that lie nasopensd
an OiS'ce, athUhoufe, No. 88, Spruce ftrect,
.he purpolc of tranfa&injg business in the iine oi
Coramiflion and <Ager.c% , collesi"p rents and out
{lar.ditig claims in any part of the United States
He flitters himlelf, that from l.is'loag refidevce in
this country and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cictes will be found Worthy the no: ice of thoU who
may plc afc to confide to hii^i. the management of
any of their concerns.
N* B. Security given where required,
lith nio 24 3tawrf
D A N C I N G.
Ms. FRANCIS,
OF the New Theatre, lefpe&tully informs the
public, that he r.o longer means to cortinue
his Dancing School in co>.junction with Mr. Byrne,
hut will open i- frparateiy_early in December, and
htfpcs ft ill t o receive the r.ccuHomed patronage with
which he has been honored', and which it will be
his constant endeavor to dtferve.
Vrivatt partial may be iiiftru<Sled at hii own
house, No. 70, north Eighth Erect.
novembcr 29. eotf *
Wants a place,
AS a Wet Nurse, a young woman, who can
bo well recommended. Inquire in Eleventh
street, near I'ace-ftreet. Nov. 27.
*eod i w
A Journeyman Hair-Drefler,
WHO is foher and steady, and underftaads
his business, it'iay have irr-mediatc em
ployment, on application to GEORGE AB
BOTT, No. 9, Chel'njttrftreet. Nov. 27.
eodiw.
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ftreat, .orner of North alley, No. ,4,
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red b'ourdeaux Wine inc-afw.ni
1 boxes, fix years old '
White Gravel Wine in calks
TicliWburgs
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
HeiTians
Diaper and Tabic Cloth
Empty bags
Csromon Oertazii Cloth
An assortment of black eoloured Ribbons
Fine German Laces
About twelve talis Russia clean Hemp
Clover fieed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Window Glass Aug-19—
N O T 1 G E.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States, are informed that according to the
flatute of Incorporation a general Eieilipn for
twenty five Diredlors will be held at the Bank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the lirft day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon'.
Altd pursuant to the Eleventh feilion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Bank
arc her.by notified to aflTemble in general Meet
ing at the farii t place on Tu'efdiy the fec'ohd
day of Januairy ucM at five o'clock in the E
vening.
By order of the Board of dire&ors,
G. SIMPSON, Calbier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not than three fourths of tne Direflors
in office, exclusive of the Prefidemt, (hall be e-
for the next fucrteding year, but th«
Dirritor »vho (hall bePrefidentatthe time
Elc£\ion may alwayjbe re-elefled.
Philndefohia, nov. 18. 1797- ft®
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREEN LEAF:
and EDIVARD FOX't Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, l ; rom late unavoidable urcumdances from
obttinyng their Certificates, agrceableto former
notice. The Truftccs now infermthem, they
arejeady toifTue the fame to tliofe who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and these who do not, will be conGdercd as rq
linqu'Jh!n-» their claimoll the Aggregate Fund
provlied for their payment.
lIENRt PRATT,
TUCMAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLE Y,
JACOB BAKER.
nor ember, 13. tuth&fim.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walnut-ftrett,
lif FORMS those who wiih to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeifc in the French Lan-
RttTCe, that he has just opened his Library, con
fiftijig of upwards of 1150 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftru&ion, or plea
sure. 7he conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
m town.
p. b. All translations from and irto the French,
and Spanish executed withac
cuioicy and dispatch. eoxm no%>. 15.
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brown Holltndi
White Sheetings
Dowlafies
Silesia b.rdered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siamoufes
Black Ribbons, No. 3a*d 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking GlafTes, in
in cases, &c. .Sec.
George Pennock.
novembcr 6. cod3w
FOR SALE,
By CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front (Ireets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general afibrtnient of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, confiding of Clock Move-
I ments, eight day ar.d thirty hour brass pinions
. and forge work ; BeUs, clock and watch Dials,
f Springs, Hands, Glaft'et, P\i nice Stone, Emery,
1 Rottan Stone, Cac Gut; bench, (lati4 and tail
Vices; Turas, Pliers,Cluins,Seals, K.eys, &c. icc.
Apprentices Wanted,
novembcr 3. f&turf
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROTID,
IS now <in the press, and will he publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by Zt ch a
riah PoulsoN, jun. No. 80, ChefnUt-ftreet,
Philadelphia, whert l'uhfcriptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
accprding to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready far the- fubfcribcrs.
July fS. ' aawtf
WINDOW GLASS,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the Cit —
y FAMOUS SIZES,
From Bbv 6 to 19 by 14*
By the ftox or may be had at the
florc ot the bubferibere, somei of Arch and Front-
James C. S3 5 SamudW. Fiber.
Philadelphia, Juneg, 1797.
the printers h tb-V i'teW i ; tl!«eC.ire r'pi.fc,?
to infett. tlvfotli.ihg j« ($Jr
papirs, by zvtecjj tU- public will btfir-vti,
as sv~!l tir thg':r obftiient i-jrvcltlt.
B. LJNO9I '\ r , sib -rl<:a:Jant of
Ligl>tjiw«s, St<**t of Maj/Utb-ijiKs.
D Y order of the United State*, a Light House
-8 Jbas been erected it the Clay Pond:, Cm Cape
Cod ; the lamps in which are to oe lighted on
the 15th iniW The light K '.Ce u Wflcdtfii,
land elevated abc-.it ijo feet, whkh the e
levation of the Lantern makji* w!iolfcl.ei{>!hh
103 feet above high \Vantf djuK gn oidcrth.it
this Light may be di'liogui/tted frSift tfie Boflon
and other Lights on our"coaff, an J'fciipf-r is e
reiled, which will revolve around the Lamps
mice in So seconds fothat the light will he n -ar
ly excluded from the eye of [he approaching
mariner about tfilrty iicsnds* in one revolutt
®n of the eclipfer. To render .the benevolent
defies of Cofiir'cft as extensively uftftl) as pjfr
fible, the,Ma}ine Sqi't'ety in Boflon, by a large
Concmittee from their body, whole views have
heea lecotided by others, have taken fdoh dil
tances and hearings & thev thought necessary ;
which obfetvitiona giving light asd fjfety are
added far the benefit of ali interefted—•and are
as follow
Y r efli;!s outward brund, from Bcfton Light
house, and would with to fall in with Cape-Cod
the course i»E. S. E. d'iailce ij leagues, thence
league« to the Light house. When up with
the L'ght-houfe and it bears j W 3 leagues dis
tance, you then fleer S S E which will carry
yo'-. out of the south channel.
Veflels iaward boundi and fall in with the
back of Cape-Cod, bring the Light to bear S W
z leagues distance, then you may steer WNW
lor Boflon Light-Mouse.
If you you would wish torgo into Cape Cod
harbor, you way keep the shore aboard about
a mile dillaitt, where you will h>ve 10 fathums
w'ater. Th#r in bjr lies off* the back of the I
Cape, about half a mile from the shore.
When up with Kace-point. which is very
bold, and about three leagues to thewefltrard »f
the Light-house, and may be know» by a num
ber offilh houses on it, from jto 3 milts to
the foutXward ot Kace-point, is what is called
Herring Cove, where you way hane good an
choring, half a mile from tlie (bore, the wind
from Eto N £in4 or t vin & fatbmu water.
If hound intt) Cape Ood harbor, youf course
from Race-point to Wood end, i. S S E 6 miles
diltance, bring the light to bear E by N and
run for it about two miles, you will then be
clear <:f Wood end—then you mull steer N E
until the light bears E by S—then run NW 1
fcr the harbor, until you have from 4 to 3 i-a
fathoms water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Light then will bear Eby S i-i S 5 or
6 miles difi:nce.
111 running from die Race point to Wood
End—after you pass the Black Land or Hum- !
mucks, you w ill come up with a low faody j
beach, v. hich f.irms the harbor ; extending be- ]
twoeri 2 arid 3 miies to Wootl-cnd, which is J
difficult to be diftiugiiifhed in tfofc night —It is |
very bold—you will have 35 fathom wafer
within half a mile of the shore.
In beating into Cape-Cod harbor, you must
keep the cittern shore aboard,, initil-you get in- I
to 5 fathom water. Stand no farther to the.
wellward than to bring the light to bear E by S |
as theteisa long fpitof sand runs offfro'm rj;e j
weftrrn (hore, which being vwy Ml' foil will j
have it fathiui water wit tm V.iHptt hr.ow of
shore. J? * . ■
Is cale it blows so hard that you cannot beat
in the harbor, y.iu will have good anchoring
without, from to to tj fathom water.
VellVls in bay and would wish to put
away for' Cape Cod fiartor, must endeavor to
fall in with the Race. If in the night, and you
eaanot Tee the land, you mutt bring the Light
to bear E by N and run for it until you have
foundings in 14 of i/fathooi then steer
north cast until the 'light bears £ by S then /un
in M W for the harbsr.
At full and change, it is high water off Race
Foint at to o'clock and 43 minutes. Vefiels in
leaving Cape Cod bound to Boston, (hould cal
culatfc the tide, as the fload Cits to the
south weft.
JOHN FOSTER WILLIAMS, yCommilte
NATHANIEL GOODWIN, ( f -.m the
JOHN CRUFT, C Marine
JOHN HILLS. J Society
THOMAS BA RNARD, A branch Pilot
for the fart of Ballon
SOLOMON COOK, £ RrftAence at Pro-
ELIJAH NICKEtiSON, ) vmcetonCapeCod
At a Meeting of the Marine Soci. ty, held at
Concert Hall, on Tuesday 7th Nov 1797—the
above Report of its Committee was read and
approved and ordered to bepublilhcd.
By order of ihe Society,
THOMAS DtNNIE, Prrfident.
WILLIAM FITUNEyS, Sec'ry.
City of VVafhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For tie Improvement n j the Fedetal City.
Aniagnificettuiweilrogiiioufe ao,cocdollars,
& cath 30,000, afe 50,000
1 ditto ij,odo ft ci(h »5,00e 40,00#
I ditto 15,000 & caffi ij,ooo 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto s,OOO 8c calh j,ooo 10,000
1 ditto j,ooo & cat* 5,000 10,000
1 caftrprizeof 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are * 10, goo
to do. 1,060 - - lO,OQO
jo do. , 500 , - io,oon
00 do. too - - 10,000
»oo Ho. 50 - - 10,000
4CO dcr. »5 " 10,000
1,000 do. id - ao,ooo
15,000 do. to - *59,000
f6,7v39 Prizes.
33,s<Sr Rlanko.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight ISollars, 400,000
N. B. Tolnvour thofewho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will tyc
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approv»3notes, fecuting payment in either
money or prizos, in ten days alter drawiug, will
be received foi anynumber not lefsthan tick
ets.
This I.otterj will afford an elegant fpecur.en of
the private bhilding» to lie ereAed in the City ol
V/aihington—Two beautiful deligns are already
leleiicdTor the ejitire (ronts on two of the public
fijuares; ftoa> thefi 4ayfjHgs.it ispropofed to creel
two centra and 'our corner bail dings, as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to thf'fortunate adventurers, in
the manner dcfctlbei ii) the fchenie for the I lot el
Lottery. A r.ett deduflion of five percent, will
be made to defray the necciffary ex;* afes of pilot
ing, &e. and the furplm, will be made a J>att of
the fund intended for the. National IJniveriity, to
be erecled witliin the city of V-'afhingtoa.
The real fecuritietgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, ire held by the Present and two Direil
ors of the Ponli of Columbia, 2nd are valued at
more than half the amount ol thelattery.
BLOBGET.
4 § t Tieltets may be bad.at Uie Bank ol Cx Nm
hia ; of Jamej Veil & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Oilman, Boston : of John Hopkins, Richmond :
antt of Richard Wills, Cooper's Ferry. mwf'
zj' St. Andrews' Society. j
Memhtrs of St. Society, Vv'Mi
1 pleafs to take notice, as tliclr Ani'iv;!-
f3ry happens this year on a Fast Day, to he obferv
by an order of the Syroyi-o.t I hilauelphia, to
\yhich onimnnity many of th<? mc-inher» belong ;
it is tlu'i clorc proper to def<r the Celehra
i:ion rUcieof, uutil Friday, the firil ol December,
at O'Elle-rs' Hotel.
The members are rtrqueftftl to apply for tickets
o{ admHTirtn to any of ti»- afiiftancs, viz. Messrs
Gavin H jun. James Hen
dedon, Po'bert Hendcrforij WffiiH. To4,Efq.
Orjbf. Andrew Sp^p.te.
The officers are ddfired ro atten I as one o'clock;
dinner to he on the table nt tiVfefc.
By order t»i tli- Board,
HICIIAiID L -KE, Secretary. [
dtiD
PQ& SALE,
By the Susschiukk, ac i>is 6tore, No. 75, 3outlr
Water-street,
A general affortmant of China
Ware ;. : ,i ~
Black and coloured Sattlns
Do. do.
Do. d«. Ha chiefs
Do. do» fe'.vi g Silks
Imperial and Hyson Tens
Long and (hort Nar-.keens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland G'ai, in pipes
Aitorted Olafs Ware, in cases
White andbrovvn S4|gars, in boxes
Moiaflef, in
St. Croi* Rum and in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter c.Ukj
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chtfls
Logwood, &c. &c.
n*v 7. —tu&f<w JOSEPH SIMS.
From Marfcilles.
' THE CARGO
OF theSwediih barque-Guftavus Adolphus.from
Marfeilles,coiiCilißgof th* following articles,
is difch»rging at Mr. Latimer'!, wharf, and for
I'ale by the fuUfctibers
BRANDY, well flavoretl, of l, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hoijfhead<
Ditto, in cafei
Frontigniac in cases of 3obottl#s
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in b.'.lkrts of 6
and is bottles.
Capers
Oli vis
Almonds
1 Dry Vcrdigreife
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of aS, 3c and 3a inches
Taffeties
Long and Ihort white Kid Glows for Women
Silk Stocking*
! Handkerchiefs, in imitation a£ Madi ass
| Artificial Flowers and Garlands
] Ostrich Feather
j Hibbons
| Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
j Manna in,forts
! Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN k
ROBERT ANDRfEWS.
September 27. eotf
Lately Published,
In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chcfnut dreets,
A Colle6tion of Papers on the of
Billiou9 Fevers, prevalent in
States foi a few years past. •
Compiled by HQ dji fVft BSTER, j un.
Containing letters from Dolors Seaman, Ski it h,
Cue], Taylor, Monfoji, Reynolds,
ell,on contagion, s;c. &c.
Sept. IS-
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED.,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & 00.
No 40 South Second street.
TPrice 31 Cents] I
. A View cf the Causes and Confluen
ces of ihe present War with FrancP-
By the Honorable Thomas Euskine.
May 15 §
' STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Young, BookWler, No. S 3 > South Sa
-1 colld-ltreet.
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
the impenchmtait, trial, aod acqnil-
Vj( al ofFrancisHoptinfon, Judgeof the Court of
Admiralty, and John N'icholfon, Comptroller Gcji
cra!—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general affonnjentef
Book". Also, Stationary, retail and by the paek
ege, well aflorted, and entitled to tl.c drawback if
axpofted. July 7 —"
*. For Sale,
a That well known place, called VANDf.titin'i
3 F(R U Y,
a Nefhaminy creeli, 18 tniles fram Phila
:i (adelphia, on the New York poll ro*l,
0 containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
3 preinifet are a large two ltory stone houle occu
d pied as a tvern, and a good one story ilone kit
; chen, a large frame liable with a good threlhjng
0 floor, and lorae out buildings—also a well of
■j good water, and an excellent ice House. On
d this place i• a mist elegant fuuation for a gentle
j man's fe.it, coiomanding a view ofthe Nefham
-3 iry to its junilion wiih the Gelawate, and thertce
d acrofsto the Jerl'ey fliore. 'lt has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bfirlgr.
For terms apply to the Snfeii fb«r,
MORDECAT LEWIS.
May 24-
- . COLUMBIA HOUSE
: Boarding School for young Ladies.
M' RS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleal
ureand refpeel, re'r.irfeS her Cncere ac-
J knowledgenient for the liberal encouragement
- Ihe has received duriivg four years relidenfe iw
Philadelphia ; and allures her frienils and the
f public, so far from intending t,> decline her
f school, she has utade a superior arrangement for
y the more convenient acsQinmodation of her
c liholars. —Evert branch of ufeful and pjnltte
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
' Groohibridge * ami masters excelling in their
1 refpeiilive profrflions.
1" Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
Jnnejth, 1797-C imfrf
The firuatian is perfeilly hwk]»y ;. and made
more agreeablehv an extet.fy.-tf gatdc.! and lot
of ground adjoining the htjjite.'
Jit ft P iibhfried,
- And to be had of Mefffs. Do'.-fon, Campbell,Rice,
t Cary, aod the olheq pricipal Uooldeliers in the
city .price due do !ar, twisty-fitc boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
J Tribes and Nations of America.
; By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, .v. d.
f' June id. "(it
R E MOV A I.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed hib Store of Cfeina, Glals* Queen*
War?, and Dry Goods, from No. 8l North Sc- f
cuxid, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north call
corner of Cherry Alley, where he folicirs the fa
vor of his former cu(turners.
N. 13. Crates put up with ca*e at the (horteft
notice.
noyett&cr dtf
Real l?.ilate for iSalc,
/J PLANTATION, in a healthy and good
Lru tiKitioii on Cheller Creek, in Middleten
Townfhtp, Delaware County, epntairiing Ityj
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are woo 4
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the letter, many more
acres carl be made at a small ex pence. There are
on said premises, a good orchard of be'ft grafted
fruit, a itoufc, with :\fpring near the door, a frame
barn with stabling under, and a lojj tenement on
one part of said place.—.—Any peribn inclining
to pufehafe,. mar view the prAnifes by applying
to Wm. Pcnnbll, on said farm, and know the
erms by L'paiying to Jonathan Pennell, in the
torough oi Cfecfter.
licvember 11. 3t eod
Philadelphia, Oft. 1,3.
tHE fubferibers inform their frkndsand custo
mers in town and country,that their ilcres are now
open in the city, and others are dai'y opeiling, and
that from tke present appearance ©f the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
ibortly come to the city with perfect faf *ty. By
several late arrival®, numbers have received frefn
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith iff Co. P. IV. Gallaudet iff Co•
John Davis iff Co. Sit greaves iff French,
A till Smith, George Dob/on,
Wiltberger and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex Bit/land and Co. T. R. Hardenbcrg.
yacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and-Cp
OtVfn & Jona. Jenesi Thomas Orr,
Keppele iff Zantzinger, Hlllfam Barker & Co.
Adam Zantz'.nger, Thomas Armat iff
John Fries, J. Miller» jur., and Co.
Lritjumi/t l&y. y&b*Jbn.'
Oft. 14.
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory.,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
IVhore le has fit Sale,
AVEHY extenfiv« stock . of every co'owr, and
of the most approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a hoafe, with great variety of bor-f
ders to loit.
—ALSO —
A handsome afiortment of the most fafhionahle
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very heft p'ain Oreen and plain Blue,
With Pa&nel Papers and a rich variety of Borders.
Nwven her 1. eo6t
Will be Landed,
Fiona onboard the ship £<stive, Capt.Blair,from
Hambu»^h,
20 baks white Rufiia clean Hemp
a casks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Lcuffcr,
North I'iftii ftrect, No. 34.
1 Tune 26. fj
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Smwsu, Mailer,
From Bonrdeaux, and for Isle by the iubferiber,
No, 11 Walnut Ctiect.
Boerdeaux Brandy
Iri/h market claret in cases ( Entitled Jo
Jjrlecloc wipe, ift do. J Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry IVinc in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. de.
Pimento iu bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf-
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
a°d enlarge the underflandmg, is opened daily, «»
usual. It stands in an airy and healthy fituat jr\ t
. and free from the epidonic that
tie city ;it may, therefore, be frequented vrith
the greatefl fafety.
As an Ar.ufcment, the Audy of Nature is ths
most rational and pleating : as a Science, the most
fubiimc and inflruvflive. It elevates the mind and
. expands the heart. They
j " IVh(>m Nature*: works can cbarnt, iditb God bbffejf
" H»ld to/tverfe."
j Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Muftum •- avd the feathered tribe,
f containing a variety <*i the most rare and beautiful
fubje<£s, is now very advantageously arrarged.
f ' Waxen Figures,of Vitn lafge as fife (some ofthem
calls from nature) are here drcfl'ed iu their prcpsr
_ habit?, and placed :n attitudes cUarafieriwlie of fheir
reipeclire pations. Here may be hen the North-
Americcn Savage, and the Savage of South-Amerl
, ca —a laboring Chinese, and the Chincfe Genjlc
nian—the sooty African, and the Kamtfthadale—
. with some Natj^ves of tlicJ>outh Sea \ Hands. 1h"
immense variety and interesting diversity which
, this Museum offers to the view, may be fe«n Uut
eannotbe described with full eff( J &.
Price only i-i»th of a dollar.
Scyt. aB. raw
'( Davis's Law Booh Store,
No. 319? High-Street*
GEORGE DAVIS,
r TJJEING busied for some time past in prcpara*
Jl) tions for removing into his orient house, hus
been uftder thcneceflityof poftpnning until this day
informing the gentleman ot the Bar generally thro*
the limited §tate», that his spring importation of
, law boaksisnow arranged and ready for iale, oil
terms that he trulls will entitle him to tholike
freence he has experienced for years pail,
Catalogues, combining the most varied collce
. tion ever imported i/ito this country, ace printed
. and will h t delivered on application.
1 June 27. *aw
" Boston Glass Manufactory.
citizens of the United States are h<srebjr
r i in form id v the manufaAure of Window
- Gas• I* now commeneed at tie Glafilioufe in lsof
. t.J!'..
tr is m-edlcfs to fay any tftiKg- of ilm czpeUmc
of the Boston GUIs, as it is To well
throughout the United Stoles to 'oeTri evep-y rcfpeA
greatly superior to any ever importe •! from Europe.
It will be cut to any size comcioniy ; and
may be confrantly had by applying to Cuakles
KCi'fER, at. tHe Glass House.
' Ordd's from the distant States to be a-idreffed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
V,c ft en, ief:t 30, 1797 O 4 —2 Mr 5W
:, Svl.Jfn. Tirrvthy and Cbarlepon ; Meffrt.
e Ilofye and Boy la;:, Halifax, N. C- Mejfrs. U'ilietf
and ZPjfWfior* orf li ; i\ir. KM* Price, Alexandria ,
i Mejfr's. Tunlt and Broivn, Bah'r/h»>e ; Mr. Jjcffc,,),
Ketv-Ycr!: ; and ACffis. lludf.n \b Gcocpii in, B.:. * -
ford; Mr. Seymour, Xavcxnzb ; rcqur '.d tv irfif'
tic ahve or.ee a tvcck 6zi j.is. 'J ve cctiuiii te ifj .it -
ivardc tl e Editor, ,