cf tijz and Philcidclphici Baity Advertiser.
'-■ musk ijst. j
SALES By AUCTION.
Stated Sales
'For D R r GOODS.
( Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. j6,
y,, n Aj J south Front-flreet,
" J J Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
(_ South Prmt street.
f' Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
) Auuiion, No. foui'h Front-street.
J ) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street. 1
Wedtiefdaj [ A '^ r 3enfon, No. 74
• south Third-flrcet.
ThurfAaj \ Fnrenn.n—Edward Fox.
( Afternoon —John Connelly.
Friil v ( Forenoon—William Shannon.
"J 5 Afternoon—John Connelly;
SntH<~day Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
United States, 1 „
Pennsylvania Diftrift. J
IN \pucfuanCe ot a writ to me directed from the
honorable Richard Peters, Esq. f\idge of the
£hftriel Court of the United States in andfor the
Pennfjrlvsnia Diilri<S, will be exposed to Public
Sale, at the Merchants'Coffee-houfe, in the city of
Philadelphia, on Mondat, the eleventh*day of
September next,nt 12 o'ctock at noon,
The BrlganUnt, failed the
liSffl MARIA,
"i"With all andfingular the tackle,ap
d'ik'StiSat parvl and furtiiture Js they now are ;
the- fiid firigantine having been condemned to pay
Mariners wajres. See.
W«. NICHOLS, Marjhal.
Mnrflial's Office, 7
August 2Q, 1797. j
N B. The Inventory may he seen at my O (See
For HAMBURGH,
>~«!b '"THE Copper Rrttomed Ship
1 F A VOKI TE, John
Thompson, Wider, now at
Bright'* wharf, and will be rea
' A dy to take in on Monday next,
part of hec cargobeing engaged
and resdy to go on board. Thefhip is so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is note- in rompleat order. For Freighter Paf
fagr, please to applv at Mr Jeremiah Warder's,
Compting lloufe, No. 12, North Third street,
■or to the M after on bord.
August 30.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, alTorte 1/
Hollow and Window Glass, Demyjohns, Wrap-"
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I & 2
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4W
White Havanna Sugar.
1401 boxes of very fupcrier quality now difch.arg
-7 r hhds. \ ing from tke ftiip Hamburgh Packet,
a Walnut Stre«t wharf—and forfale by
Philip Nicklin if Co.
N. B.
# THE Blllp
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Master,
Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 24. eotf
COMMISSIONERS' SAJUEST
r T , HI Commifli ners of the counties of Ly-
JL coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
The different printers in thi» eity will
render an essential service to a great number of
individuals by publilhing this notice.
"Aug. {B.
FOR SALE,
BR ETA ONES in cases
German Checks in do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Ornabrias
©old and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in calks, &c. See.
George Per/nock,
O 1
103, High-Strut.
J»iy 5- u 3 aw
N OTI'G E.
IF Tbbov O'Hara, who fomeyears lincekept
School at the Nine Brjdges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Amhrofe
Marihal, near Warwick, C.cil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he Will receive in
teresting information.
August 4. mwStffw
~ THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREEN LEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the property assigned to them for the securing
the payment of the note*, acceptances, cn
dorfements given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the said James Greenleaf; and the holders of
fucli notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of (heir refpeflive
tlai.ns, both principal and interist, at
any time before the zcth day of Oilober next;
after which day, the holders not Applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of affign
jnent. \
Applications to be made at fouth-eafl corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hoars of eleven and one o'
tlock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley, ,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Diftri<2;
of Southwark,
A RF, informed that a Coachee is provided, to he
jT\. kept at the Cotjftables' office, the north ealt
earner of Front and Almond ftretts. where the
friends of ihofe sick pi rfons who desire to be re
moved to the City Hospital, are requeilcd to make
appliiation—Alfo, a Hearfj will tekept in readi- ,
nei's-for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.—The Poor, who wi(h to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furniflied Vith ordec»
by applying as above. A«5.19
PHIL J D EL PHI A : SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 9, 1797
This Day Publifried,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOIJNCi, corner of
s Second and Chcfnuf llrccts,
Price of a l)olitir t
Obfcrvations on certain Documents
S, Contained iv> No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
5 the year 1796,"
In which the c'l w- or 6Hc ui.atio>i ugainll
X ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Sechstarv of the Tr ( asur, is I'ULLY
'• REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br HIMSF. IT.
4 Tills publication prel'ents a ccncife ftateinent
of she base means pra<flifed by the tk<
■U N nitcd States to asperse the c'haraelers of those
persons who arc considered as hostile to their difor-
fchemes. It also contains the cor
r.fpondence hetween Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenhurgh and Venable, on the fub
je<st of the documents alorefaid, and a (tries of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a deubt,
c that the connection between him and Reynolds,
c ; was the refuh of a daring confpir.Aqy on the pari
: c of the latter and his alTociatcs to extort money,
i Cs* A dilcount of one thir l from the retail price
: v.'ill be made in favor ol wholt faje purchaser-, for
( cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr "¥o»ng.
AU S UJI is.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
; '"PHIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
1 i. at the corner of Second and Arih Streets, in
Philadelphia, evi-ty Tut/day, Tbvrfday, and Satur
day, at 1 o'clack, in the irorning ; arrives at Ho
ver the firft day, at Snowhiil the second' day, at
Northampton Court Hodfe the third" day, and on
c the morning of the fourth day the paflengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk. .
> A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
5 every Tuelihy, Thurf lay and Saturday, and the
t Sta£ start,' from this ferry for Philadelphia', every
_ Mon«ay, Wcdpefday and Friday jjputs up at Snow
( Hill th - firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
j t ives iu Hiiladelphia in the evening of the third
1 &i y-
Thediftance on this rout«, betwaen Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is to miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
* Too much cannot be said in fnvor of the road,
' which is most excellent indcod. The proprietors
•willingly engage to return the whole fire to any
passenger, who, after having performed :his route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
I rdiftance, so good a road in America.
. f August 11. dim. eotf.
I Philadelphia, istbjuly, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that feparMe pro
posals with sealed covers will be received
at my office until the t levenfh day of September
next, to furnifh by contradl the following ar
ticles for the use of the Army of the United
' States in the year 1798-
First CpntraA for
8 Sergeants coats "J
1 Musicians, do. |
10 Sergeants veftj V Dragoons.
i»6 Privates coats
116 Privates vefti J
64 Sergeants coats
3* Musicians, do.
1)6 Sergeants vests
19s Woolen overalls Artillerifta
191 Line* overall* &
936 Privatescoata Engineer!.
1 936 do. vests
1871 Woolen ovwalls
1871 Linen do. <
144 Sirgcantscoats
7a Mulicians, do.
a 16 Sergeants VefU
43 a Linen overalls
431 Woolen do. Infant-flf.
1893 Privates coats
189 a do. vests
3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen do. i
ContraiSl, fdr 1188 Sergumti fcirts
11816 Privates do.
12600 Socks
ad Contrail, for a 7a pair leatherbreechts
3d Contract, for 17a pair boots
psirfhoes, No. 1
Bcoo pair do. No. 1
4th Contrail, for 1031 Artillenfts and Engi
neers hats
a 108 Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps
The whole )o be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, via.
One fourth on or before the 1 jth day of Fe
bruary r.ext.
One f»Urth on or 1 before the 15th day of A
pril next.
The remaining hilfon or before the 15th day
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to such pan
terns as (hall he direfled by the Seeretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be made as form as the article
(hall be delivered, and pa fled infpCiilion.
TENCH FRANCIS, purveyor.
entiith^ep.
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Alio,
ico do. of Hyson,
Imported in the WoodropSims, and for sale by
the fabferibers, corner of Second and Pine
street. ,
C. Haigbt.
June ai. eotf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front street,
Hyfnn '
Hyson Skin Cf EAS
Young nylon C
Imperial J •
April 26. eotf
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginjrer and Fep'per prourid
Shelled or Pearl Barley
BhiladelpHia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
'l'aunton and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by tile pipe, quarter-cask or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home tdnfuniption—
tor Sale by
John Haworth.
K0.98 fo-Hh Front street
By John Fenno, N 3 ' iip Cbejnut Street
Higgins' Specific
FOR THB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YE L.L 01V FE VE R.
V hR fincc this disease mide fach ravages in tTiis
-J city and New-York, the author has turned h
attention to its causes and care.—The result of his
enquiries has convinced him that the region why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are freni ita
not being well underftaod, and the consequent
wrong method taken to cure it. He' is perfiiaded
that the excefiive blecdigns and mercuritl reatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by theufe of prop tr
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Sfififc as a
eert.iin r«medv,if used according to the direction'.
To be had ih bottles, at one dollar e-,ch, cf the
inventor Geo. HigyJnj, Cherry street, two doors a
bbve Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson and
Go's Medicine Warehouse, London)by J.Lc
tlanc, No. li 6 ;W. Griffith, No. 177, <T. Pea, u, No.
if, South Third ftrert, T. Stiff, No. 55, New ilreet,
near Vine flreet, and J. Sal.j, No. 36, Race llroet.
Aug. >5. tuths jt
"RAN- A W A Y,
C>N the ill. inft. from the Subscriber, an
' apprentice lad, named Kendal Merrill,
abotiT tweoty .years of jge, by trade a Tailor,
and hid about fix months to fer've. Any per
fou who will apprehend said run away, so that
he may he ictiirntd to the Subscriber, will
receive a handfume reward and reafonible
charges.
EDWARD GRAHAM.
Sept. 7. ro. » 3 t.
City Commiffoners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Councils, pafled the lid day of May lad
Propoi'als in writing will be receive ifiy the City
ComanOioiicrs for one month tram the ift of Sep
tember next, for lnting to rent 011 leases for one
year to commence the firlt day of January next, the
IcHowirg public property of the city—
The wha r f and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Salfafrus,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, with
tin Scale &nd Fish Houses, Spruce, Piiie and Cedaf
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings creat
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
neeiflary for the toll-gates.)
! *ng. 3 ) jtawim.
TO BE SOLD,
And pojjcjjton given immediately,
ALAROi'. two (lory brick Houfe,haudfomely
situated in Princeton, There are four rooms
and a Isrge entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage houfeand two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
Qalls in the two stables for 11 horses. The heal
thiness and pleasantness of its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the tcvrs, re/i Set 3 a dcflrable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central pofitlon, and the largenefj of
the stables, make it every suitable for a tavern, for
which it has always been considered as a capital
(land. Inquire on 'he pretnifes. of
ISAAC SNOWDEN, jun.
Prinatton, Ang. ij. 29—dtwaawrf
80 Dollars Upward.
LAST night the shop of the fubferiber was op
ened, and several articles taken off, viz. a
common black leather pocket book, containing two
twenty dollarnote* of the last emiflion of' the Pchn
fylvania Hank and a number of locfe papers—
one pinchback watch with a carved cafe, ar.d fix
filver ones—one of these a French watch, original
ly made to tell the day of the month, but till ", part
of the works had been taken out—the figures on the
dial plate were left—Another was made by Love
1-nd, London, the number 3113 ;athird wj< mark
ed on the dial plate as wcl as theinfide. Amber,
New-York. No further particulars are r> collect
ed. Whoever discovers the thief, or thieves, so
that they may he prolecuted to convidiiMi and the
property recovered, shall have the above reward.
Forty dollars wilt be paid for the property alone,
or in proportion for any pr.i t of it.
THOMAS LINDSAY.
Jv B. All watchmakers are rcqueiud to scop
he above watches it offered for iale.
Frankford, Augu/t 19.
A u*r. 21. eofo.
* IUPOR TK I)
I* the ship America, Jame« Kwinj, tnafter, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands ,
White Piatillas
Ticklenburgs
Coarfc Linens
T apes
Looking Glaflis 11. r
Class Tumblers j " Cafea -
FOR SALE BY
George Pennock.
Augufl 14. 3aw
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and eltvant hdufe at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and on? dinitigroom—the largest is 31 feet by
26 —and two are so conneifled by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
sides 5 in the garret, well finifhed for fervantt.
There are stables and a qoach house, with evry
convenience for a fan ily. Enquire .it No. 29,
in North Seventh Ilreet, or at No. 218, Arch
Street.
Aug. 1;. ■
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and th? public in general
that he has removed from No. 1151, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. lOJ North Front, be
tweeh Arch and Race ftreetis
July 2». 2aw4w
Rofs & Sim/on,
Have for sale—
-sHogflieads,
Tierces, and
Barrels.
A (mall parcel of nice cocoa in bags
A few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof '
Superior Teneriffco wine, old an l in Madeirapfpes
An invoice of jewellery and holiery t© be fold by
the package
A few hampers best Enchecf«.
July V/. 4tf.
Imported inthefhip Manchester,
Benjamin Sh.ewell, Mafler,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the lu icriber,
No. ir Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cases Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. " Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas Murgaireyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caffcs
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufhela Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lattly arrived
-'•"L from Europe, wishes to find hare a place in
the quality of a Dire&or of a Glafs-houfc, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular rat-'ans for the
conftru<it;on ol the kilns, pots, &e. and p«ffelfn: g
likewise tht articles used in the Glals houses c.f
Ei gland anr! France, havlng'w«rki;d a Jwg while
in m«ft of thciu. Every exertion will 'i' made to
render the mar.ufa&opy deserving of public appro
hatiot;— He, who willit's to speak to him,will £nd
him it No. 27; Front-ftiect.
Aagufl' 24. » 4 t
F«r sale or to be let on ground
rent,
valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the noith-eift corner of \Va!-
nut and Filth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
teet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses,
number of iYcall tenements thereon.
Al'o, for Salt,
T\vo three story Brick Houses
With convenient flores, wharf, &c. Gtuate on'
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street Gf
, ty-fou» feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thcfe houses
ave the conveniance cf a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa<flor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of .goods. This
property will be fold ori very reasonable terms
torcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July ■jt. m&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aflortment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irilh Linens and Sheetings, well
assorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes ©f fine Spices, cotaining Nutmegs,
I Mace »nd Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Win#
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimflone
Mordecai Lewis.
Avrrvjl 12. 3awim
Cedar Shingles. \
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles of> a superior quality, for sale at 13
dolkrs p»rthoufand.
William Hallo'well,
No. 193 North Third-Jlrsel.
July 27. eol2t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
r PIiAT agreeably to an a& of Congress «f the
X United States of America, pasTed at Phila
delphia, tfee 28th day of Ma/,
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of perl'ons,
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for his
or hev own nfe, <»r to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of pafferigers, the several duties and
rates following, to wit :
For aad upon e\ery Coach, 15 dels.
upon every Ctariot, 12 dels,
upon every PolVChariot, 12 do,'#,
upon every Post Chaise, i» dols.
upon every Phaeton,with or without top,
9 dols.
*pon every Ooachee, 9 doK
upon othx*r Carriages, pannelwork
above, with blinds, gla/Tes or curtains,
9 dols.
upon f®ur wheeled Carriage?, having fra
med posts and topi with steel iprings, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
erv or iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
u i. on other two whetpi top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other tw© wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed posts and tops, afcd reding up
on wooden spars, 2 dols-
The CollevSlors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftri& of Pennsylvania, wiU attend
daily, until the 30th day of September for
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
No, it?, in Race or Saffafras-ftreet, in the City of
Philadelphia ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efcj.
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house
of Tr.mes Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all perfonspoffeffed of such Carriages are
dtfired to take notico.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the buS
nefs of aptaillng of Wines, in a ltfs quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the hnfinefs of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorifedfe'grant fu.h licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeilor of the R' venue of t-hefird fur*
vey of the Dilhict of Pennrylvania.
Office of Infpeil'on it 7 , j T „.
Philadelpbia, 3d Auguil, 1797. i
Thomas Herman Leupfer,
NortJ) rifch ftrect, corner of North alky, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALS,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine incafciasi
boxes, fix years old
A hire Ctraves Wine in cafljw
rirklenburgs
Rufiia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Liaen
Hcffian?
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
Common German Cloth
11 afTortrrient of black coloured Ribbon*
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Russia clesn Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family u(V
Window Glals si u(? 29 —~w
1 HIS DAY WAS PUbLisHEI),
And for file by THOMAS DORSON, at the
Stop? H'lufe, No. 41, fouHi Second (lreet«
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confining of a variety of Mifcellancous Pieces Tor
theinftrudion and atufement of Y.OUNC PER
SONS—Six Volumes hamdfomely printed antLhound
up two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of thefc pieces are
(uch, that the book ticei U only to be known to be
universally esteemed one of the mod valuable pub
lications th t can be pu.t into the hands of youn"
parlous.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to (hoot.
To pour tfce frelh inl trudion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivctning spirit.and to fix
, The generous purpofi: in the glowing brcaft."
Thomson.
August 24. mwf4w
THIS D ;Y IS PUBLISHED, '
By TIIQAIAS DOB \ON, at the Stone House,
No, 41, fout.Fi Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between fevc'ral Tevng f.adies, on improving and in*
terefting fubjeds.
Translated from the Dulcll of Madams de Cumlon,
with alterations and improvements,
Printed tnfine pa per, and nukly hound.
Prist 1 •nt dUior.
AMIDST thetide of modern Romances, panning
tales of extraordinary distress, or of defper;te or
artful villainy, which " harrow up-the foul," and
which it would be for th-t honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little b Ciuii corns- forward to for
licit notice, where in ,a v.iriety of incidents, i:ot ex
ceeding the bounds of re.fl lift, the proper, becaufi
efegatt and natural dignity and importance of the female
character is exhibited in an interefling point «f' view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publifhcr was fomuch pleased with the per«»
sal, thnt he was petfuadeil he should do a pleasing
forvice to the community by fending it Info circu
lation. August 14 —mw4w
To Mqjltrs and Pilots //ringing up P*ejftle
frym Foreign Ports to this City.
TTTHereas sundry infringements have lately bees
VV made on the laws of this (late for the pro*
venting peftil<#.ti*l or infectious diseases, eithen
from ignorance or,inattentio» thereto, it is tho'e
expedient at this time to publilh the following el
trads from the laws of aid April, 1704, 7th' arxl
Bth fedions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extract of an aft for ft curing the city axil pari
of Philadelphia f rom the introdußion of fefli
lential and contagieus diseases.
Sect. 7. And bo it further enadetf, that every
m&ftef or captain of any ship or vessel coming from
! feu (veffi.'ls adually employed n the toa'ftirg trade
excepted) and bound to sny port or place within
khe.jiirifdidiori of Pennfylvauia,lha!l cpufc his ship
or vessel to be broHght to anchor,or othcrwife flay
e.: in the dream of tho rivor Delaware, opposite ta
the Health-Office on State-Island aforcfaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly obtainad a
certificate or bill of healh from the Resident Phy
sician. And il, previously tc obtaining fucli certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain shall
luffer his (hip or vessel to approach nearer than the
fa id Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, Or
shall land, cause orfufferto be landed, or brought
on ihore, at any place or port within this -Com
monwealth, or at any other portor place, with the
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or perfous, or any goods, wires or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
0.-certificate, he (hall ncglcd or rcfufe to deliver
the fame to the Health-Officer, fueh mafier or cap
tain (hall forfeit ann p-.y, for each fuch
offence, theftimof five hundred dollars.
And the captain or mafier of every lhip or ves
sel shall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician 011 board, and Ihallin like manner
conv y him back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And vhile he
is making such examination, or in cafe any fubfe
quant examination by the Health Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the d're&ions of
thi- a&, the matter or captain (hall cxpofe or caufc
to becxpofcd to thefearch of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Conluiting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and efery part of the
ship or vefiel, and shall present to his view each
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and Ihall also true and fatisfadory anfw< rs make
to all such (jueftions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination lhall alk relative tp the
health of any pprtor place frem which the ship or
vessel (ailed, or has fincetouched at—die number
of persons on board when the (h.ip cr vessel entered
on her voyage—the number o( persons that have
since been landed or taken on board, and wheu.
and where refpedively—whatperfoas on board—
s they hatfe been during the voyage, or ihall, afe,
the time of examination, be infeded with any' pet
tilential or contagious difeafe—»nd what is the pre
sent state and condition of the persons on board
with refpe<S to their heaith or difeafea. And if;
any master or captain shall refule to expose as afcrc
aid, to the fcarch of any of the officers afore (aid.
11 it he shall cannal any /id person, er in any other man
[tr deceive the proper officers aforefaid in bis an fivers,
uch captain or mafier, for every such offence, shall
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred bol
i-ARS.
Sect. 8. And if nay verfon or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) lhall
go on beard any vessel, before the mafier thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
direded, every person so o(Finding, shall jay the
um of OKI HUNDRED DOLLARS.
IT beisg al folutely neccfTary that the foregoing;
fedions (hould be pundually complied with, thu
fubferiber, m compliance with his duty, must ex
ad a rigoroas observance of the fame, or else be
u)ider.the neecflity of putting the laws in force.
Wm. ALLEN, Health Officer of .'/)<
Put u Philadelphia.
juljr 14. Jjvr
[Volume XIIPhiladelphia,
SrEXTXG, SE?TEM3ER 9. c
i
The 'C'allo Italian arthy under MtilapaHt hiVa
V>y their successes aiid the difUhce lo which ihe.j
have carried their arfas from the feat nf empire,
plno'i their leaflet in i very Gmilar predicament <
to that of Gjtfar, when he firft Meditated' the J>af
fage cf Rubicon* i
G.'uloffefs feWef fibftacles, to the am
bitiousprojeSsofa laringandahle adventurer, than
Cafar had to enc:niint< r ifi overturning the Roman
Republic Rent and liattered to her ccntrd, by the
various factions which crime hasgi'fen birth to,
her calamines have beert increased in pressure with
inhythe drain occcEotied by, her t.ternal exertions.
She has eidhangM hi* former opulenc?, prosperity
and wholeftnme Rrength for a forte alike
tn herfelf and her fetes, ari'i become" arfned and in
verted.*' A disorderly horde of ruffians, whnm
she is ar a loss h>w to dispose of, are the present
representatives of the anci nt and abcc pow rful
tnonJWrhy of France. Could the *atlie aiihve force
be row brought agalnrt her t' at took the field un
der the Duke of Drunfwicli and tli< King ef Prus
sia in 1792. Ihe roust luccamb to she pressure."
But h"-r iecurity lies in her baring depressed the
power* of her etlemies by those deleterious efforts
■which haire ruined her own. From Jjer ow:i bo
som then, tr.uft come the efforts which istoaver
turn that elumfy and ill-conftru.ied edifice which
she hn erecSed as the ruins of the monarchy.
L : ut the world at this day contains no Ciefar.
""This sge is the sera of mepictcrity,- sterile in the
ptodu-Siofc of great men. A Marlborough, a Tu
renne, or a Frederick w< uld long ago
h*ve (lopped the torrent of msdnefs which has
drenched Europe with humsn pore. 'lheg~eat
Frederick l< Ir no arcomplifhed general behiad him
War generally creates gresit men : —but the pres
ent eitnteft of five years, however fertile in brave
and hardy warriors, has given t#the world no on«
Specimen of those masterly toxical abilities, which
have alone been wanting to turn the efforts of a
wi'd race of .madmen to their own eonfufion.
In Buonaparte, from whom some have been in
the habit of looking for great things I fee no oth
er talents than those common to the rude Barbarian.
He has overrun Italy—a 1 Attila, Alaricand G#n
ferie <ii(M>efrfe him. Mo permanent conijueft
fulted from their deflr'a&ive course—no perma
nent eflabliftiment willrej'ult from his.—He has hi
therto displayed nothing of the great general His
career flaS been ou the contrary,i*rked by errors,
for which * great commander would have ei'tut
*d a subaltern. \* here were hi« mighty talents
when the Anllrian general Beaulieo, an old rr.an
man of 80, escaped from his clutches with 18,000
men, Buonaparte frequently coming up with and
engaging him at the hea.l of a force amounting at
lea i'i to 56,000. While lie has been dancing abeut
from place to place to enjfoy triumphal proeeflions,
his army has repeatedly been left without a head,
and though treachery or Incapacity may have pre
vented these advantages being fcized hold of by
the Austrian commanders, who might hav« em
ployed them to rid rhrfir, count'y o'"'he defpoiiing
and murderous Voe, yet does nor he enjoy on this
account any exemptionfuemthe imputations which
would have relied on his capacity and vigilance, ,
hadthtfy been faithful in avai 'ing thvmfelvt* of the !
advantage** thus offereil by his negligence- To
eonclr.de, Buonaparte ia r.o Cxfar in talents, tho'
he may be in villainy ; and if France is to be rid
of her new'-fatijUd republic, it will be by other
hands.
It has frequently appeared in criminal trials in
Grcatr"'ntain, that gangs of highwaymen empby
among their bands, and in their iatercoujfe with
•ne another, a fpecics of language iininte.ligible,
bat to thcmfelvss—Renominated earn!Jiang.
This is also a common practice with the Jaco
bins ; and at it proved so powerfully irtftrumental
in works of in France, they calculate,
with their aecudom-d flupidity, upon similar fiic
eefs again (I the fr«e and equal government of Ani«-
tica.
The following j aragraph from the Aurora is a
tolerable fpecitpen of these hackneyed phral'es, ei
preffions and aflertions; whose use and meaning, if
*ny they havt, is for a kind of Sbibbahtb, to be con
fined and employed within the pale of the fa&ian.
" Hitherto tfe Britilh faction have attempted
only to palliate the injuries and insults inflided on
our commerce and seamen by Britilh privatocrs and
and British King's Ihips ; but of late the Gazette
of the United States attempts t» exculpate them
altogether. " Never; fays that paper, can one na
tion more fyflemztically refpeei the rights and pri
vileges of another, than great-Britain does that of
America at this day."—lt is by publieationi ef this
nature, which are no dou t well paid for, that the
Britilh are encouraged to continue cipturing our
defencclefs merchantmen and condemning 01 fore
ing them to fell at a great lofs,-ana to continue tTi«
lmprcffmcnt of our seamen."
No Editor could, without encountering the in
dignation and c jntempt of all the refpe&able part
of the community, attempt to " palliate the inju
ries and insults" of any nation whatever. So far
as relates to Great Britain, it may fafely be denied
that it ever was done by any American Editor. A
keen sense of the indignities offered to this country
by Britain, was tarly evinced in the Gazette of the
United States—their outrages were reprobated ia
as loud a tone as the occasion demanded. But the
.Aurora, disregarding public contempt, has uni
formly not palliated but juftified and advised the
treacherous and piratical attacks of France; and
BOW (O I matchless impinleuce I) charges others
with juOifying insults t* the country.
Bache ise neof thofr clever fellows, whofeldom
are found withcut a resource in cases of extremity.
If defeated in argument, and beat iff his ground,
Le invariably descends either to mifreprafentation
or abufc, and his whole volume of ia.nl Jiang is ran
sacked for epithets to refill arguments, which he
finds invincible.
The Commiflioner» appointed by the
Governor, to carry into efFeft the law for
alleviating the distress of the Citizens of Phi
ladelphia, and the suburbs thereof; inform
their fellow-citizens, that they have attend
ed to their appointment, and now invite
them to recommend in writing, signed by
one or more reputable inhabitant, such of
the indigent as may come to their know
ledge, who will be assisted as they may Hand
in need, by applying at the State-Houft,
from 3 to 5 o'clock, on the 6th inft. and
every second, fourth and sixth days of the
week, called Monday, Wednesday, and
Friday, at the fame hours, while neceflary ;
and those who-want employ, may likewise
apply as above, or to either of the commif
fior.ers at thtiT dwellings.
Commijftoners for the city.
Robert Wharton, S. Third-street, No. 13J.
George Krebs, N. Fifth-ftreet, No. 17.
John James, ditto No. 18.
Israel Israel, corner of Chefnut & Third St.
Thomfcs Savery, N-. Fifth-ftreet, No. 20.
Edward GarrigVies, Ciierry-ftreet, No. 39.
Crjmm'lJioner! for the Northern Liberties.
SamiKi Wheeler, Vine-street, No. 9s.
John Wagner, Noble-street.
George lnglis, New Market-street.
Comm'iffivnrrs for Southivark.
Samuel Church, corner South & Water St.
William Lennard, South Second-ftrect.
Robert M'Mullen, Swanfon-ftreet.
Philadelphia, September 5, 1797. ,
FVatn a Vißd I*l A Paver. \
Amongst Mr. Clay'srea&ns why h* thinks {
that fomc tif our countrymen wilh " all jsow- \
er to centre in the Hands of one person" he i
states that certain members of Congress were r
of opinion that they had no right to advise e
the Executive as to the grounds of negoci- {
ation with Francfc ; that they proposed an 1
addition of 992 men to our artillery an in
eretife and completion of our little navy, and 1
an augmentation of our military eftablilh- t
ftlerlt—Good God ! what rtafons are these, t
and particularly at this time to prove that t
despotism is about to be introduced ! Mr. I
Clay, and some others were opposed to these :
things, and as an apology to his constituents 1
tells them, and attempts to alarrti thefti too, 1
that these things were all for the ptirpofeof
centering " all poorer in the hands of one I
person." Will his eonftituents receive it as i
atl apology ? or have they a right to expeft I
of Mr. Clay that he support that govern- 1
ment which We have formed freely ; to en- I
title him to their'approbation longer ? Let 1
us examine the opinions of these meinbeiVof
Congress so reprobated by Mr. Clay, and
fee how they will {land— By the conftituti- 1
on " he President shall have power by and 1
with the advice and consent of the Senate
to make treaties, provided two thirds of the 1
Senators present concur : and he (hall nomi- :
nate, and by and with thead*ieeand consent
of the Senate (hall appoint Ambassadors"
See. Sac. The President and Senate being <
thui empowered through their ambassadors
to negociate and make treaties are responsible
for any hreach of the trust thus reposed in
themj and may be impeached and punilhed. 1
The responsibility and powers are infeperably ;
annexed by the constitution ; thus the <
Judge is answerable for his condudt in jud
ging, the legislator in lawgiving and the ex
ecutive in performing th« duties of their de
partment, in making treaties, &c. Take
• away the responsibility and you had better
take away the power. The Congress of
the Utiitid States then advising the Execu
tive what kind of a treaty to make with
France, evidently takes away the responsibi
lity and the executive is not acccountable
for any consequences : this i* not authori
zed by our constitution and is a direct at
tempt of the legiflatire to eneroach an one
branch of eur Government " to centre in
the hands of a few"which Mr. Clayio loud
ly complains ofin others whileheispurfuing
the direst road to the attainment of it him
felf. The impropriety of Congress advising
the Executive to make this of that treaty is
manifeft on the score of information : The [
! President has ambassadors in all the different
states and kingdoms with whi€h we have
conneftion, their duty is to make enquiry,
and fee 9nd examine into, particularly, the
conduit of the nation where each resides, to
know the principles which govern their
councils towards us, to know their situation,
strength, commerce, demands, what suit*
them snd is convenient to us &c. See. and
to give private information of all these to
the Executive—With this certain and au
thentic information ; it not the executive
better qualified to make a treaty than any
other department of Government ?
Is not the Executive thus informed, bet
ter qualified than the house of representa
tives, whose information is collected from
vague report*, news-papera retailing falfities
and contradi£lion«, and other fourcts equally
as uncertain .' Upon the score of preserv
ing the constitution inviolate, found policy
and the probability of treaties being made,
better consulting our true interests, I con
clude that Congress had no more right to
advise the executive what kind of a treaty j
to make than the judiciary have our state
legifiatures, or a«y other body of men not
impowcred by the constitution.
A. FMEND TO GOVERNMENT.
alluded to above, is a member
of the Gallo-Virginia phalanx, and a more
sensible and clear lighted democrat does not
grace that pure, virtuous and republican con
gregation of worthies. How it happened,
is of no consequence, but he fubferibed for
the Gazette of the United States. Short
ly after, an article was copied from a coun
try Gazette, purporting, that the most re
cent advice* from Europe, indicated discon
tents in France at the arbitrary arid tyran
nical conduft of the present blood-stained
rulers.—That the difconteuted peasant, and
1 the ancient French gentleman, were enquir
ing " who will Ihew us any good in the
present order of things ?" &x. The wife,
independent, and truth-fearshing member;
| called to discontinue his fubfeription, aflign
. ing for reafoiv, that though such froth could
; not intoxicate his profound brain, yet as he
forwarded the papers to a young printer
: newly set up in his town, he wa* fearful of
r such publications gaining a hold on the
- young man's mind, and perverting him from
1 the right" path. This man is nevertheless
- an independent republican ! a friend to free
: enquiry, and a fearchpr after truth, an advo
r cate for the liberty of the prffs, and a valor
s ous champion for the independence and dig
- nity of his country !]
1
, To the Printers of Newspapers in
1 Pennsylvania.
: Gentlemen,
1 The fubjedl of the following obfervati
; ons being of general importance, I request
r you will publilh them in your several papers,
- and oblige
A NATIVE AMERICAN.
( Continued from a former paper.)
I SHALL premise, as a general rule
equally affefting all, that five things must
concur to qualify any man to vote at an
. ele&ion. An ele&or must be I ft, a free
man ; 2d, a citizen ; 3d, of the age of
. twenty-one years or upwards ; 4th, he
; njuft have resided in the state two years
| next before the eleftion ; and Jth, he mult,
j within that time, have paid taxes, assessed
' at least fix months before the ele&ion. The
j want of any one of these difqualifies from
, voting, except as to the last, in a cafe which
, I shall hereafter mention.
I. Natives to be entitled to vot», must
be of the age of twenty-one yeare or up
wards ;• their ordinary pi 3" rtlidsnce, o
for two years next beiore the electioii, at ; f
which they offer their votes, mull have been p
in this state ; and within thai-time, they t
mult have paid a state or county tax, assess- a
ed at lead fix months before the eleftion. e
Gee conflitution of Penrifyfvania, art. 33, 1
feftion 1 ft. '
11. Emigrants.into this state, if thiv t
have before been citizens of any other of t
the United States, are, of course, citizens 1
of this state ; but still they are not entitled i
to vote, unless they have reflded in this
state two years next before the eleftion, ;
and, within that time, paid a state or coun- <
ty tax, assessed at least fix months before 1
the eleftion, ib. and art. of confed. 4.
111. Emigrants from foreign states must
have rcfided in this state two years next be- 1
fore the eleftion, and, within that time, 1
have paid a state o? cOUnty tax, assessed at 1
least fix* months before the eleftiott ; and
still they are not entitled td vote unless they ]
have been naturalized, of become citizens.
Ibid.
To afcertdin Whether a foreigner has been
naturalized, or become a citizen or not,
the following enquiries must be made : 1 ft,
was he a citizen of this state, or any other
of the United States, at the time of the
adoption of the constitution of the United
States, or at any time before the 26th of
March, 1790. If he' Was, he remaifis a
citizen. But if he was not, it must then
be enquired, 2d, has he on, or since the
26th of March, 1790} and before the 29th
January, 179;, been riaturali/ed, or be
come a citizen of the United States, agree
ably to the direftion3 of the aft of congress
of 26th March, 1790. If he has, he re
mains a citizen. But if he has not, it
must be enquired, 3d, has he, on or since
the 29th January, 1795, been naturalized
or becorrie a citizen of the United States,
agreeably to the direftions of the aft of
cangr«f» of 29th of January, 1795. If
he was, he remains a citizen. ;
To explain this I must trace the pro
gress of our natural it at ion laws. The for
mer constitution of Pennsylvania declared,
that every foreigner of good charaftef, who
comes to fettle in this state, havin'g firft
taken an oath of allegiance to the fame,
and after one year's residence, shall be deem
ed a free denizen thereof, feftion 42. By
an aft of assembly 13th September, 1795,
it was declared, that no stranger from fo
reign parts, who has come into this state,
; although he have resided therein one full
| year, shall be admitted to vote at sn elefti
op, unless he produce to the infpeftor a
certificate of his having taken an oath of
allegiance, feftion zi. ,■>
The constitution of the United States
gave to congress power to establish an uni
form rule of naturalization, art. 1, feft. 8.
This power congress did not exercise till
6th March, 1790, when they authorised
any common law court of record, to admit
aliens to become citizens. From that time,
all laws of any state, refpefting the admis
sion of aliens to becorrfe citizens, ccafed,;
and aliens could be admitted only nctcrd
ing to the direftibns of the law of congress.
On 29th January, I79s,"rtmgrcfs repealed
this law and enafted another authorising the
supreme, superior, diftrift, or circuit court
of some one of the states, or of . the terri
tories north-weft, or south of the river
, Ohio, or a circuit or diftrift tourt of the
United States, to admit aliens to become
citizens. And ever since that law, 110 alien
can be admitted a citizen but according to
its directions.
I The proof that one who .was an alien,
has become a citizen to be given to entitle
him to vote, is a certificate by the magis
trate, before whom the oath of allegiance
to Pennsylvania was taken, before the 6th
March, 1790, or of the court before whom
the alien was admitted as a citizen, since
that time. If that certificate of the ma
gistrate be loft," the best way to supply it
would be to obtain another, and if that
cannot be done, it must be, like all other
, loft proof, supplied by oath. Aft of as
. fembly September 13th, 1785, fee. 21.
. Alien children of aliens, minors at the time
. of the naturalization of their fathers, be
. come thereby citixens—-aft of congress 6th
. March, 1790, and 29th January, 1795.
Not having paid taxes is no difqualifica
. tion of a person legally exempted from
: taxes, nor of the son of a qualified pei lon,
, if this son be above twenty-one, and under
1 twenty-two years of age—Penn. const. art.
- 3, fee. I—aft1 —aft of assembly, 25th Septem
[ ber, 1786, fee. 6. And evidence of age,
: residence and payment of taxes, &c. may
- be (riven by oath— aft of 13th September,
F 1785, fee. 23.
. No eleftor can give m his vote but at
1 the diftrift, and to the infpeftor for the
j township in which he lives—aft of 13th
r September, 1785, fee. 13.
Such is, I think, a faithful statement of
. the qualifications of eleftors, as prescribed
. by our laws : for the due execution of
which our eleftion officers are sworn, and
for any deviation from which, they are lia
-1 ble to prosecution and punilhment. I con
sider their faithful execution as necessary to
preserve the purity of our government.
A NATIVE AMERICAN.
" From tic XF. IP-YORK GAZETTE, to"/.
EXTRACTS,- translated far this Gazette,
from the Hiflory of Crimes, committed during
the French Revolution, jvfl publ'tjhed at Pa
ris, in ftx volumes offavo. Volume \JI,
page ljl.
1 "O my country ! are you free !" " This
■ is the question which every woTthy man puts
: to himfelf, in running over this foil still wet
: with the blood of its tnoft virtuous inhabi
-1 tants ; this country, where the wrecks of
, the most elegant monuments of human art
! lie? scattered by the fide or dead bodies; this
France, fo peopled, so magnificent,
1 to-day, changed into 1 desert, and covered
with the crape of tombs. Omy country !
Liberty, that objeft of thy love and firft
facrifices, has (lie been the price of the
scourges, which some monsters have heaped
on thy Surface i tf me, are ■ yoii' i d
J All fs silent ; and the'deplorable or- f
phang of a mortally* wciundtd nation, with r
thrineyes turned towards heaven, appear to ]
afli : u When then will a man arise fuffici- t
ently couragiou3 to paint the secret and pub- t
lie of our tyrants, to trahfmit to fu- t
tnfe ages the lesson of our thisfottJunes, and i
to console the shades of our murdered fa- 1
thers, by exposing to the execration of th,e t
universe the fiend-like deformity 6f their as- 1
faffifls." t
" Well, this m4n (hall be me. For three i
years past I have panted to enjoy the liberty 1
of the press. In the midst of the inunda- I
tion of all forts of vices, let us ofFer an afy- I
lum to the virtues indignant ; let; us fee <
whether the liberty of the press has loft no- ]
thing ) and if the laaguagi of truth can I
make l'tfelf heard without obstacle. If it i
terrifies only the guilty, '.hen will I speak ; !
those who govern wish the happiness of the '
people—they cannot be offended at what I
shall fay." " By what fatality has it happen
ed that this people were at the mercy of a
horde of robbers ? What have they done
to merit this fhameful destiny ? Is it neceffa
ry'that a revolution should partake of the
horrors of a vulcano or an earthquake ? Bit
if the calm appears, ought we not to exa
mine the losses we have sustained, to count
the victims, and to give to each of them the
tribute of regret it merits ? We have seen
monsters on the throne ; we have seen the
fenateof Rome disgorge the Appius's ; but
what we had never seen till this enlightened
age, what we will never fee again, is the
genius of crime convoking all the wicked
vile monsters disseminated in the croud of
an immense nation, attaching them the one
to the other, confounding together all the
elements of depravity, all the amalgamation
of ferocity ; neading with this impure filth
the enormous colossus of deftruftion, anima
ting it with the fire of hell, covering his fore
head with the diadam of kings, his (boulders
with senatorial robes, his body with a bra
zen coat of mail, and giving up to this
monster, until then unheard of riches, fields,
cities, provinces, empire and men."
" This monster has lived—we have seen
him ; where is the catalogue of his victims ?
In the disaster at Lisbon, one hundred thou
sand citizens of every age, rank and sex per
ished in some minutes. An alphabetical lift,
some months after, was drawn up of the
names of those unfortunate viftims, for the
benefit of the families who survived the phy
sical revolution : why not follow this exam
ple with refpeft to the political revolution
of France. Such is the firft part of the ufe
ful work, more philosophical than is thought,
more disposing to internal peace than is ima
gined, which I give to the public. " It is
philosophical/ I repeat. —How much to
think of—to consider, will ihe
contained in the firft and second volume of
the History of Crimes committed during the
Revolution, enriched with cuts and revolu
tionary chronological tables, afford to all or
ders of readers; whether foreign or domeltic!
How -. tny persons' thoughts will it turn
towards themselves ! What a load of re
morse will it'not excite ! Noble 3, clergy,
kings, and your people, who have fuffered
most, run over this repertory, you will there
fee what you have to reproach yourselves
with. The friends of humanity will ap
plaud this idea, they will thereby feel more
fittingly the necessity of totally abolishing
the punishment of death, a necessity so otten
demonstrated in my Journals of the Revo
lution in Paris, and a proposition always vain
ly agitated in our three firft legidatures."
" Let us unveil this lift of judicial mafla
cres ; this eloquent lift will prove that every
1 w which delivers the lives of citizens, to
the blunders, errors and passions of their fel
low-creatures, it is in faft unjust and bad.
It is time that we snatch the axe out of the
hands of justice, and confine her to her scales
—it is time that (he should be inverted with
those god-like attributes, which the fiend'
like passions of. men have torn from her."
" We may charge all our evils to the
flight of the king, to which step he was
compelled by the continued insults and dan
gers to which he was hourly exposed. Had
Louis been less timid, France at this day
would not have been in the ruined state (he
is at preient— ruined I fay, notwithstanding
■ our all-boasted victories and territorial acqui
i fitions ) for what conquests can compensate
, for the loss of religion, morality, commerct,
• manufaftures; for the disorganization of
. civil focitty—the relaxation of principles
• nec«ffary to the existence of social order, and
, the engendering of horrid feuds, animosities
r and deadly faftions, which for years to come
, will make our wretched country the feat of
carnage, butchery, and civil discord. This
: step of Louis produced its intended objeft
» —the massacres of September, and amidst
i the horrors of those massacres did the con
vention spring forth. It was composed of
f simple and thoughtless men, of villains,
1 flaming partizann, the accomplices, and who
f will believi it/ even the principal adtors on
i those horrid days ; of those men, who, to
- arrive at the curule chair, feigned for liberty
- an unbounded enthufiafn in the dubs, in the
9 feftiOns, in the primary assemblies, deceived
the people with refpeft to their true interests;
. bore on their foreheads ; LO V E O F
COUNTRY, written in characters of
blood, and building, on the continuance of
•, massacres, the continuance of their infoHnce
f and future grandeur.' 1
RE M J RK3.
', By such raemhai the French Revolution
hitherto been conduced—men who made
s dead bodies the steps by which theyafcend
s ed to power more than despotic—by such
t men, (to fay the Direftory and not the Le~
- giflative Body of France") have the godlike
f characters who have administered our na
t tional government beea reviled, abused, vili
s fied for pursuing a line of conduft diftated
, by the pnreft patriotism and confcientioue
1 j sense of duty—by five or perhaps three such
! men has a decree been passed which they
1 had no cOnstitutional right to eriact, autho
e rizing the most lawleis piracy upon the prop
d erty of the inhabitants of thciV states, in
dcfisnce of the laws , f ; .*fl Ye, thegohd
faith of trcsticf, the cpiii.cn 6f the French
nation,''and even of the Itgifiative body of
The difpontion' !atcly {hewn Viy
the Cfitoncil of Five Hundred, to condemn
the coHcluct of the Director)' with respect to
their piratical decree towards this country,
is the highest encomium that could possi
bly be beflowiyl on'the pure and virtuoui
conduct of the political pilots who have fafc- -
lvconducted the newfhip United Statrathro'
the florms of domestic faction and foreign
intrigue, into the harbour of peace ; and it
must how afford the mod godlike fatisfac
tion to think that in avoiding the (hipwreck
that awaited tbeir beloved veflel by running *
on the coast of England, they are not like
ly to be ftrandedon the coast of France, but
that what some time ago appeared to be the
main land of France, is now found to be on
ly five or perhaps three fell rocks, set up
there by some \vicked Americans to (hip
wreck their national veflel, which, although
built by tuif/om, of the materials of VIR
TUE, and hitherto navigated by Patriotism,
is Hill the object of their inveterate malice,
hatred, envy and ill-will—As France is con
demning those five rocks as a national re
proash, we indulge the well founded ex
pectation of soon feeing them removed, or
light houses put where they are, to warn
those who may visit their coast where the
danger lies ; as France I fay, is crying
out against those five rocks, should not A
merica give up to national execration the
fiends among us who fit them up, and havt
indulged the diabolical hope of feeing the
fleet of the United States under convoy of
the good (hip Constitution, and hitherto nav
igated'by able, patriotic and experienced
seamen, cast away upon those five newly dis
covered and dangerous rocks. Yes \ my 1
fellow-citizens, we have men of that black
cast among us !—mifcreants who have, un
der the ma(k of " ettrlujl-ue pcttr 'iQtiJrh," been
the instigators of all the depredations com
mitted property by order of the
headed mopjlrr," and have openly juf
tified and secretly enjoyed the fiend-like
pleasures of feeing their country a prey to ,
all the misfortunes of a ruined commerce,
and general individual bankruptcy. The
fatisfa&ion of th >fe monsters would no doubt
have been -mcrer/ed had our country be
come a prey to the anarchy and civil war
prepared for it with so muih art and ad
dress by the different agents of Jacobinism,
sent out by the different sanguinary factions
who have exercised . the powers of govern
ment in France for several years pift ; but
th inks be to God, who made use of the
Great Washington as an instrument in his
hands to avert all the horrors contemplated *
with so much pleasing anticipation by the
Jacobins among lis ; who, as they were idol
izers of the Robefpierres, the Carriers, and
other monsters who have deluged France
with blood, would no doubt have followed
the objects of their adoration through all
the difgraceful bloody scenes which have
been played in France. Happy are ye !
•virtuous and patriotic Federal Americans !
whom I glory in calling my^countrymen, v
th9t you had a Washington at the head of
affairs. And you ! venerable, virtuous,
good old man ! What must be your fatis
faction ! How god-like must be your feel
ing to think that the only plausible juftifica-* ,
tion your enemies have had for villifying and
traducing your irreproachable character jsj ,
removed ! The people of France are doing
justice to your chara&er. by execrating the
engines among them of an abandoned Ame
' rican faftion, who have condemned the
equitable measures entered into by you for
the good of your cojintry. Receive, O il
lustrious Washington, the warmest benedic
tions of a grateful and virtuous Pebple, for
thy long continued faithful services, during a
period of twenty years, ainidft difficulties
and 1 dangers ; in which time, although ex
ercising ftiftions the most important and ar
duous, and not being exempt from the frail
ty attached to humanity , yet, in no one in
stance will impartial, c ndid reason, find
cauft to condemn thy conduct. Support
ed by the everlasting pillars of an approv
ing conscience, and the esteem of the vir
tuous part of you fellow-citizens, the even
ing of your days will be the foretafte of
that (late of eternal bliss, which awaits you
hereafter, where no Paine ever did or can
enter. Let the remainder of your day 3be
happy ; for, the good work of national feli
city begun by you, will be continued by
tha firm, tried and patriotic Adams, who,
like his great prsdeceflor, (landing firm on
the rock of integrity, will hold his hfad in
fun-bearas, while the storms of oiforgaaizing
Jacobinic faction shall beat in silent mur
murs at his feet.
As the hydra of Jacobinism originated in
France, whence it spread its malignant in
fluence to other countries, it is to be hoped
that the mortal stab about to be given the
, Monster by the People of France, wfll ex
-1 tend to its offspring all over the globe; and
i that instead of totally exterminating every
i sacred principle of hifman nature, as it fond
-1 ly expected; by the introduction of anarchy
• and licentiousness, it will itfelf be deftrOjyied
1 by good government, order and juiticJe, I
; expect some pamphlets from Paris, wherein,
among other crimes alledged against the Di'.
f rectory, their piratical uneonftitutional de-'
scree authorising depredations against Amer
: ican property will be reprobated in the severe ,
manner it merit*; and the conduit of the
men who have administered our gpverutaeat,
l extolled as wife, Tuft, and proper, and as
; having, by the preservation of Peace with r
- Great Britain, and the confequsnt prevefr
i tion of the domination of the different
- French factions over the councils of the U
e nited States; fey which our government
- has been saved, and the cause of Civil Li- •
- berty in general benefitted thereby.— Had
1 the United States engaged in war with G.
s Britain, it is more than probable, from the •
domination of French Councils here, and
v the men who would thereby have been at the
- head of our affair*, that our government
- woiild-liave been overturned by those politi
n cal bigrtts, ((voider to utov'cl It sceordingtothe pure Fr-iich
friends of Defpstifm would then have had
* powerful argument again!! a Republi
can government being capable of an
fivering the ends for which governments
were in fl it vi ted ; when they cnild not u'Lth
truth fay, that the people of the United
■States, a free, enlightened, a jul virtuous
people, unbiased by foreign or dotneftic vi
olence, eftablifhcd agovernment '.o-day which
to-morrow they pulled down, and exposed i
tne country to all the horrors of anarchy <
and civil djfeord. What a triumph_has not 1 1
Civil Liberty obtained from the conduft of i
our rulers during the dangers to which our
'government has been exposed since the exist
ence of the war in Europe. Tremble, ye
American difoTganizers! ye antifederalifts, j r
■ye enemies to our Adams's : 1
our Hamiltons, our Jays, our Pickerings— f
The French nation is about to give you t
the wound of mortality, and to 'raise on j
your downfall, monuments of eternal re- !
"own to the above Worthies, and their a
I aitizans, for the decided part they have tar
ken in support of Civil Liberty in the dan- t
ger to which she was exposed from the foul J
fiends—lnnovation, Anarchy and Licenti- c
ollf nef6- PATRIOTICUS. i:
By this day's Mai!. J
NEW-\ ORK, September 7, a
A fiie was difcoveredon Wednefdaynight a
a little after 10 o'clock, in a ftahle between v
William and Rose streets. near Rhineland- p
er's sugar house; before it could be subdued, '
the (tableand a back building adjoining were b
consumed, and a hoife was. burnt. The I
\fuccelsful activity of the firemen was rertiark- I
able : several wooden buildings near the fire
kaving which it was thought
almoft impossible to save. This accident is
supposed to have been occaljoncd by care
lefTnefs in taking a candle into the (table with
out proper caution. t ]
The entertainments at the Greenwieh tc
street Theatre this evening, are humanely- S
intended for the relief of the fufferers at the T
late fire in Albany. tl
This morning the University of Bridewell *1
was enriched by the addition of tiventy-one pi
new mambers, on the recorameudatiqn of fe
the watchmen, aad a congccTclire from the m
Police. Ec
Nsrr Invintjcns. ti<
Amongst the new inventions offered to he
the public, there are few, perhaps, which H
discover more of the inventive genius than or
that recently brought into 11k in this ?ity, ca
by Peter A. Meller, for ruling paper. The so:
Aatnefs of the lines drawn by this machine
far exceed any heretofore executed which,
together with the dispatch of business and G
chcapnefs of work, must be evincive of its by
public utility. The inventor of this patent Ei
machine is a French gentleman in this city on
of the name of Brunelle, who has several
other valuable inventions under way, which po
doubtless will become of great public use, as by
■well as advance him high in the estimation K.
of the friends of the off
• mechanic Aits. a 1
"* BOSTON, September j. fro
BOMBARDMENT of CADIZ. J ul
An arrival from Lisbon. which failed T
thence July 20, states, that Lord St. Vin
cents (late Jervis) with a fleet of 30 fail of
the line, gun boats &c. had entered Cadfz
harbor, bombarded the town, silenced the
batteries, eaptured St. Mary's, and pa(Ttd td
the Spanish fleet which - had' fled to the most t0
interior patt of the harbour.
allc
ExtraS nf a letter from Lijbon, July 18. wh
" The last post informs us, that Cadiz is A c
inverted by Jervis's fleet. The bombard
ment has been very severe, upwards of
15,000 inhabitants hare fled from.the city ;
■which has been set on fire in several places. f a j r ,
The town of St. Mary's, on the main, has ficie
already been captured."
ExtraH of a letter from Mejfrs. Bulhley £3* 'i,!/
Son, dated Lijbon, July 18. anc':
" The blockade and bombardment of
Cadiz, (till continues, to the great injury 'f th
and detriment of their trade." '''J 1
[Cadiz, is in W. long. 6. 46. lat. 36.
2J. a city and post-town of the prt of Anda- em p
lufia, in Spain, situated at the Ni W. end If
of the iflaud of of Leon, ©r Lyon, oppolite oc "'
to the port St. Mary's, on the continent h
270 m. S. W. of Madrid, 60 m. S. W. of t unt"ii
Seville, and 45 in. N. W. of Gibralter. The make
island it stands upon is in length about 18 y° nr
in. the S. W. end about 9 broad, and the . W
N. W. end where the town stands, is not 2
m. broad. It has a communication with place
the continent by a bridge, and with the o-i- On
pofite/hore forms a bay 12 miles long, and y' ve
6 broad ; but about the middle of the bay r '
are two points of land, one ob the conti- . m * U>
nent, and the island, so near together that
the forts upon them, command the paflage.
The city has about 3000 houses in it, and Ext
the beftcforeign trade of any town in Spain, "
for the galleons annually take in their load- of th
ing here, and return hither with the treafurss firft
and rich merchandize of Peru and Mexico, inftar
The earl of £flcx,in the year 1595, landed ' "
on the island, took the town, plundered it the b
of a prodigious treasure, and burnt the gal- collet!
Jeons in the harbor. [Gazetteer.2 on th
fevers
On Saturday last this town had a very they;
fortunate «fcape,*from a threatened terrible the 1
conflagration, by the boiling over of the tar to att
kettle belonging to Meflrs. Cades' Rope- on a 1
walk, at West-Boston. By an aperture, they 1
between the copper and bricks, occafionea at the
by the drying of the mortar, the tar corn- troopi
municated with the fire below—and the rag- which
ing element (hewed its brafly head, several from
yards above the chimney. Nothing but the Lang:
particular conftruftion of the tar house pre- attack
served the neighbouring walks, and in fact morta
a large part of the town ; and the repeal of Frenc
|he law, which? directed buildings, fucli as thoug
the above is, must be regretted. thtnfi'.
SUPREME COURT. Yesterday woods
Smith, committed for Burglary and -Arson, the 1
was arra-'gricd at the bar, heard his. iuditt- vvilhoi
tue J ment read, a-id pleai n ., t .kfyfr,
had MDc« tr ™?pd;*,d o, i 7 counts for
uuli- Larceny, and plead guilty to two. W;n
an- Dexter conf,.T,d his gJ ;» £ on an wdiJtracut
lents lor Larceny.
«'Uh Something Curious—-A penr-tr-e
..ted in the yard of Mr. Peabody, in Cent£
noiis «, hasupoait Hue s£,' a.f
c vi- budding blossoms.
hich The person knocked overboard from a
ofed Salem packet, a few weeks since, and
rchy drowned, proves to be a Mr. Thomas AVai
; not J son, oT a very refpe&ablc family in Bath,
tx of England,
our
xift- NEW-LONDDN, September 2.
•7 e ti, A V,W L Cat WIS killed iYI Danbnry, on
lib, ; Thurtday the i 7 th ult. by captain Benajah
ais s j Benedict, meafnring .3 feet and 2 inches
»s — fr " m tlj e end of his nofc to the root of his
you tail.
on ! September 6.
re- I Captain Storey, of the Augusta, brought
a few Ihfh Papers, which contain nothing
: ta- more than has been before received, except
lan- the following articles : The Londonderry
foul Journal of the 27th June, fays, in the
nti- course or a week, several hundreds of the
1. inhabitants of the neighboring parithe? came
:rr ln a»d took the oath of allegiance, and that
they exprefTed great sorrow for the diftraQed
uate of the country.
rmrteen (lups were taking in» j^lTcngers
at Den y, while the Auguftg was there ;
ght and greater numbers would (till emigrate,
een were it not that real property cannot be dif
nd- pufed of for a quarter of its common value,
ed, Married, in this city, Mr. Walter Hub
ere bell, merchant, of North-Carolina, to M'Ts
'he Ann Law, daughter of the hon. Richard 1
rk- Law, Esq. 1
fire _____
jht CHARLESTON, August 2c.
u « GOOD NEWS
re- Potubatan re-tahrn from the French.
th- The (hip Powhatan, capt. Shaw, of
this port, we mentioned, some days ago,
ich to have been captctred on her paflage from
u avanna London, br a French privateer,
the The Frenchman took out all the crew of
11 >ow^at . an > excepting capt. Shaw and
ell of his men, and supplying their
oru ' places with «leven Frenchmen, ordered her
of for Nantes. The gallant Shaw, not ioti
he rr.idated by the superiority in numbers, risk
ed the retaking of his (hip, on the resolu
tion and conduct of his men and himfelf;
to he fucceedcd and carried her into Milford
ch H ven in Wales. A fubferfption has been
an opened at Lloyd's, and the intrepidity of
y, capt. Shaw and his men will be very hand*
he fomely rewarded.
ne Ship /.lenomiek retaken from the French.
h, The (hip Alcnomack, which failed from
id Greenock for this port, in April, was taker*
ts by a French privateer, retaken by the
nt Lnglilh frigate Apollo, and arrived at Cork
ty on the 30th May^
al The (hip Pacific, Kennedy, from this
:h port for London, was detained 16 hours
as by the French privateer ship Hydra ; capt.
>n K. was {truck and abused by the French
officer, and was plundered of his yawl and
a bale of cotton. v
1 he ship Lucretia, Seabury, was to fail
from Liverpool for this port, the Ift of
July.
j The ship Aurora, Brown, arrived at
London, the latter end of May, from this
jf port - 1
> z ! ExtrgQ tf a letter, dated Hamburgh, May
e 3' ,0 a mercantile house in thii city. 1
" It will certainly be agreeable for you
to learn, that several American vefiels hav- (
ing been captured by the French, now'are C
allowed to continue their voyage with their I
"whole cargo." , 'j
s A curiam ipeci. rn of a circular from a coramer- \
[. cial houAc in rfin tills city, p
f " Hray pcim tby this t'*ar we recommend 0(1 r »
_ felvej to your honcft com mands we dedicate our
' f'lves sri . ipally To\ac'co line, bwGdfii f„eh as- $
• fnire», place ni»y_gi T e ocofion for A sus
s ficleet funil and pree/Tary Sniwrieiice enaMcs us to V
itseffeft
for our Iriendi nrer-ft art the pi lar« of our deal
' 'ng, a trial (hall cqavirlce thereality of «ur afiiir
ance. J<
f Th ToHacco i» in very high price at prefetit and
r if tlier. I roc come «r.y fupplic of coufidera
tiun. it will rife still mare; which fliall be thefame. r,
cafe by Coffee ancf Sugars. ®
On the foorof thiHyou fball find noted thejU.f
---• erst prkes every acticel#.
If ynu (hould rcfolve tc sent us for the future any T
goods inCommiffion we are allways ready to accept
•behalf amount) by fending bill of Loading an ! r
. 'her you rr.ay Be contiaually informsd from the ,8 > I-?
tuntion of tread and his pricea, therewith y»u can 1
make Enterpriiet with ground which must aim t'
your advantage. p (
We take the fell upon againll % prC. pf Provis
ion and fliall menace al! cods. p
If you (hould commit any produ&s from thi 7
plai ewe likewise Priveto serve yon fati.faelorel- "
On our Circumstances you may inquire here lv
y've A qu.iintance at thU place.
We recomm«nd ourfelve» in your favour and t\(-
main Gncereiy
Sirs, &c.
KtNGSTON, (Jam.) July 15.
Ext a3 of a letter from St. Marc, June 16.
" I shall give you in detail the outlines
of the proceedings of the brigands fromtheir In
firft approach till their defeat on the 10th
instant.
" For some weeks prior to the Ift instant,
the brigands were seen from Gros Morne
collc&ing in vast numbers from all quaiters,
on the banks of the Atribonite river, with
several field pieces in their front, with which
theygradually approached that pod, till in
the ill of this month they made dispositions'
to attack it; they encamped themselves up
on a hill, inclining towards the Salina where
they mounted one heavy gun and a mortar,
at the fame time they sent a large body of
| troops to encamp at the watering place,
which cut of water and provilions
from the town to Gros Morne and Camp
Langie. The former poll was so warmly
attacked by the cannon and (hells from the
mortar, tl?at it completely the
French offieers and their blacks, that they
thought of nothing but the means of saving *
thetwlyes, so precipitately fled to the I
woods ; the brave but unfortunate Britifli of El
the 17th light dragoons {Js in number) Jan
without an.officer, had now to sustain the ' oft
'"}• whole fire o,r ihe eudmv, and absolutely k;
for them at bay for forae time ; they were
' n - length overpowered, by numbers, and on
lent 25 of were fortunate in cutting the
way through, and arrived at Fort Church!
rj e,' " Po rt Langie, commanded b : ya Frenchc
fei "ser wjs. evacuated without filing a fhot
aud In consequence of this rascally hufinefs o:
judicious commandant (Col. Cochereltt
ti a ordered all the out-poffs, on the 3d to 1
and .withdrawn, and the gauns to be spiked
r at- these were Camp Guillon, Le Rey, Mari
ith, Frang, and Montrouie, (Gros Morne an
Langic being already taken), our hopes (
y became .now very doubtful, havin
only the town, Fort Churchill, and Fei
on Brifoane to depend oy. On the 4th, a bal
jah tery w»s commenced on Guillon fide, vvhic
hes on thq 6th opened on the town, and plie
his us very warmly with , P 4 (hells ;at th
iameume abrafs i 4 pounder was opene
again!t Fort Churehil), ane] continued with
? ht o«t interruption all day. Ooly conceive th
ing ltatrf ef the inhahitarrts particiijarly of th
ept heiplefs women with their infants, and a
rr y their valuable effefts in their anns, no vd
the fel to take them off, and no profp.tTv of anv
the I never saw woe more completely depicte*
ime than at this time, from four to five hun
bat dred women arranging themselves aW th
.ea beach, feemi'ngly more inclined to tbrov
themfelve# headlong into the deep than b
ers in the power of the savage enejny.
; " No ft el Is were thrown after seven in th.
,te, morning of the 7 th June, but the 24 poun<
lif- brass piece at hght on the day, opened 01
e. i ort Churchill in a most tremendous man
ib- ner, aau continued till i X o'clock, when th.
j f lO * c-"fpci?ate storming commenced thai
ir evt ' r be e n known cn the part of th<
Brigands, ftom two to three tfeoufand o:
them advanced in three columns the fort
prepared with scaling ladders, h W dJheJk
? .,° cotll materials, and ©thei
wai 1> ;e implements; they fought defperate
of ly under the wall for 35 minute*, several
ro, mounted crying Viv la Republique, but
>m fortunately for o UH faJ, si fon, the few Bri
er; ' t . l in deiending thefort beha
of ved so gallantly thatrthey Were finally repul
nd Kd; they (hot feveraf of our crwn blaeks
sir who were going to abandon their ports,
er and thereby obliged the reft to do their du
ti- ty. An officer of the 17th Light Dra
k- goons was twice ltruck by stones by a brig
u- and who had mounted the wall, upon recov
f; enng himfelf, he lifted a 6 pound (hot and
rd let fly at the fellow, and fettled him, "By
:n J 5 1 know you, honey, you have had
of your breakfaft." • .
i- " Never were the brigandi known tohave
fought so desperately as on this day, thty
left 550 men dead on the field 2 colonels and
n 1 ; officers—this account is afeertained by
:n their papers, which Were taksn the oth,
le with their 24 pound brass gun, having been
k reinforced on the Bth from Port au Prince,
the appearance of eight ships full of troops
1, entering tfo harbour, struck them with con
rs I ernation and they abandoned all their
t. works, icc.
d Xl)c cisasette7
!f PHIIJ DEL P HI A,
SATURDAY EVENING, Septemkfr 9".
s CITY HOSPITAL REPORT, "
From Bth to 9th September, inthe Morning.
y Admitted, since last report,
David Wallace, Davidfon's, Vernon ilreet,
j between South and Shippen ftrtfets.
- Catharine Turner, Penn lireet.
t Catharine Turner, jum Penn ft reef. -
r Elizabeth M'Cave, (an iafent) Penn ftrtet.
''"hos. Harkins, S. Rfehirdet's; city
Wm. Rob«rtfon, Drawbridge.
Francis Dougherty, 274-, 83nib ad street
Abraltam Cobbett, Wtihtut-ftreet
Samuel Peoples, P. Wadmah"*, 158,80111+
Front-ftneet • n * ■- •
' William Morgan, 89, South Water-flreet
George Preole, P. Blaokftdnc'a, corntr of
Crab and Shippen-ftreets. 1
Joseph Aaam, French taverrt, Water, be
low South-ftree't'
Discharged since last report:
James Rowan, admitted 3d inft. <
Henry Steward, 1 jyih ult.
Eloped;:
Thomas Townfend, admitted yth inft.
Died since last report,
faines Reynold's, admitted 6th inft.
Francis Dougherty, Bth inft. 12 hours afr
ter admiflion'i -t
Peggy Sileox, sth inft. N .
'icmaining last Report 3-
Admitted, >,-■ H
> < 47,
Discharged 2
•Eloped so ' .{ r
Died . 3 6
U. Mifplßl, 4 ,
Interred iij City Hospital, burying ground
lince lall report 1— , -
From the city and suburbs 12 1
From the city hospital 3 1
T&tal'. 1,5.
JSxej>hen Girard,
(Signed) Cal.eb iTOWSns, 1
Connelly.
£uriahfor 24 hours at noon. J
Christ Church 1 Adult
St. Peter's 1
St. Paul-i 1 ]
Friends I t
German Lutheran I 1;
German Calviniils I c
City Hospital* 9 (
Patter's Field 1 Ch Id J
5
Total 16 I
* Five of these were from the ci'.y. h
Died, on Thursday evening lafi:, Mrs. ' I
Elizabeth Thompson, wife, of Mr. ti
James Thompson, of this and mother j
of the late Dr. Thompson. . v - J
:;p£ A man this morning, in. Arch street,
s at near Fourth Street, was fuddeuly fuzed
jnjy; with an apoplaftic fit, fell down, and «pi
heir red in about ten minutes,
bill.
i of- The following- story is currently reported:
t— > A watchman observing a cart conduced by
o:ir t>\o men, palling him, with some circum
-11c) fiances which gave rife to fufoieion, was
ibe induced ta flop and examine it, "having cal
:d ; led other watchmed to his afltdan'ec. The
rie, examination of the cart resulted in drfcover
and | ing two coffins therein, filled with plate and
of other valuables 1
ing ■—
® r t The Coffee-houfe is now entirely lllut up :
'at- One of the principal waiters has been seized
ich with the prevailing fever, and conducted to
ied the hospital.
the
Lailfon, the Equestrian, is performing at 1
th Alexandria.
the Feauell, the Rofcius of America, ha"s a- '
the , gain joined Wignell's corps, and_ made his
all ; appearance at New-York, in Zanga.
fy- anecdote.
ted, In the winter of 1691—3, the French
jii- surprized three Mohawk castles, and were
the about to murder the Indians taken prisoners
ow therein,' but were prevented by the interfe
be rence' of their own Indian allies. Qolonel
Schuyler set out at the head of a small parly
he to harrafs them on their return, and fticceed
nd ed in cutting off numbers of them. The
on Englilh party exhau(led before, their return,
in- almost all their provisions, and were reduced
he to very great distress : but the Indians ex.
iat penenced no such ■ inconvenience. " The
he colonel was one day invited to eatbroth with
of them, which some of them h%d ready boiled,
it, which he did, till they, putting the ladle
Is, into the kettle t take out more, brought
er out a Frenchman's hand, which put an end
:e* toA\ appetite." They were accustomed
•al to pick up the depd men, and to subsist for
ut weeks on them.
ri- r
a- NO NEWS J£ OOOD-NEWS.
,i_ -This may, at firft blufli, appear fome
is what paradoxical, but upon the smallest in
-3) veftigation the myfteryai vanifhe* Most
men are rather diffatisfied at reading a newf
a- p^pcr, unless it.affords them some very iater
r. efting and important intelligence: But let
Y . us confid.fr a moment ; Do not ninety nine
to an hundred of this kind of intelligence,
y consist in the calamities of our fellow erea
d twe»; And if so, no news is comparatively,
good news.
r C A lleigh driving over the ice loaded with
j men and women, broke through, and all ,
d drowned; A vessel foundered at sea, or bil- ]
y ged on the rocki; ihe men perished, or
1, peihaps one or two saved, butfuffered ama
n zing hardlhips: Men robbed and murdered ;
;, A house burnt:. A town laid-in a(hes, de- 1
is ftroyed by an earthquake, or a violent in- I
undatiVn ; theufands peri/hed, and ruined: 1
; r An obdinate engagement between two (hips c
A. battle between two armies, with great e- t
* fufion of human blood; hundreds, nay, t
thousands killed, wounded and taken pri- j
foners.—W hat we call important, is most
generally calamitous, attendedwith wounds,
blocdflied, misery and death; and when so, is
bad news; I fay, therefore, 7w news is good
_ news.
How beautiful is the order of nature!
>•PP ar s mrT e "t their own orbits; the
rivers in their awn channels;.and tvery good
: f man in the way which nature and educa
te have allotted him: No man is robbed; [ tl
no house plundered; no town burnt; no j 'i
found of the warrior, and garments roiled !
in oiood; no remarkable disaster befalls any j D
■■ one; Hut then .there is a dearth of news, j[,
and the people fall uneasy. Newspapers, j v
fay they, are now a days hardly-worth rea- < a
• diag j Rut let 11s put j proper conftrjidiion I /
, cn all ev«<itß, and we fliaH find that no news j
is goodjttws; becaiife we are then to fuppofc <-
that harmony and good fortune pervades the
: world. C 1
PRICES OF- STOCKS, P'
Philadelphia, Bth Sept. 1797. W
6 per Cent. J
1 per Cant. , „y 4 a ;
Deferred 6 per Cent. * 1 '/4
BANK United Statft, l 8 per ct. advans*. V *
North picric*, 46 do. m
Inf.rarce Ct>, N. A (hare« .45t0 50 do. ts
Pfennfylvania, par
COURSE OF EXCHANiSH.
On London, a't 30 days par
t* 60 dayi 65 «
at 90 dayi' . ,
Amftcrdam, per guilder I
TV 9° d ?r s 41
■ utt
t GAZETTE MARINE LIST. ha'
tiu
New Tori, Septemler Bth. e "
arrived. Bays
Brig Dolly, Simpfon, Jamaica, . 2.7. —.
Packet Fame, Bliss, Newport.
Arrived brig Dolly, captain Simpfon, of
27 days from Jamaica. Sailed in company
with captaif,B Smith and King, both for
New York. Off the Comanes fell in with
the Ihunderer and Carnatic of 74 guns, 5,'
and the Severn and Regulus of 40, and a n r °
frigate bound to cruize off the Havanna.
Sept. i, off Cape Hatteras, spoke the 1
<hip Juftinn, of New York, from Oporto,
bound to Baltimore, all well.
The brig Lucy, capt\ Gore, failed about
1 o days before the Dolly, to windward, to "
join the convoy. N j
Boston, Sept. 5. "
Arrived brig Maria, Taylor, Cionftadt. A:
Ruflia, 69 days. Left fchr. Eliza, Kemp
ton, of Few Bedford ; ship Reliance, Web- 3
ber, of Boston ; Thomas and Sarah, Ni- an ' !
chols, of do. to fail i'n.afew days, Thetis, 1
Crocjker, of do. do. George and Marv,
Laughton, of Providence, do. Aug. 12, A
•at. 30, long. 41, saw the brig Hopewell, of 1
Darling, of Salim, from JRufiia. Aug.. 5, J
lat. 51, 30, loog. 31, spoke brig Hazard, r j:
Roberts, 21 days from Bbfton, for Rot- ?'
terdam. ' J" '
Ship Frasklin, Chjffec, St. Übes, 70 ' '
days, 's a
2 'h,; nOW Ly f a > T a/5 ' burn - oftW. place,
5- French" COndem " ed at St - Marti °'s by the
i • i.he Charts, of NewbjiYypori, 27 diva
Tent for Halifax. *
:al- ;
" e , New -London, September 6.
'7; . A / f nV %^ g . Refolut; 0"' Bowdilh> 3 q'
ind from Martinique. 1
j Sailed, fchooHer Friendlhip, Baldwin,
1 or Guadaloope ; ship Speculator, Billings J
P : and brig Polly and Bet fey, Williams, for
r .ed ■ ditto.
to Arrived, ship Augusta, Storey, of Nevv-
I Haven, short of water, in 9 weeks from
| Londonderry, bound to Philadelphia, with
at aoo pfllengers, mechanics and farmers ; a
j bont 30 01 which only are redemptionera j
a- , all in good kalth. They speak highly of
his the humane treatment which they received
of captain Storey. August 12, spoke sloop
Phoenix, of Norwich, in long. 634, lat.
T, da> ' S ° UU 2 * d A,l ? uft ' "spoke
Charlotte, Dannenburger.from Phila
re delphia, boUud to Hamburgh, lone. U,
:rs 30, lat. 39, 20, 8 days out. August 2c,
: P°. ke fch f o °ner Amelia, Clinton, from Mar-
I tln, l ue ' bound to New-Haven, 24 days
7 Rk'l, 'r A S ) e P t - mb ? r ' spoke ship Ann,
he o'j ° esandna » for Europe, 8 days
n 1
f. No fTcfF: ~
he A a:, y •gainil the
t'l j n, Co!E > Umbrella M,,\er, ]at«
l' it W V7 Wl£hi " a mnmil *">"• tbe date"
d, h.reof, to Mr.. Cole, at tb, fouih east corner cf
He G«n. «ndl Second fr reefs. for their arrangement,
ht . B / ,r *]l^mand s are P „ t fnt in before rhe
id °f the abo venjenricned time, they wi 1
, d 25 hIS P ro > ert y be disposed of.
Bank of North America,
September Bfh, 1797.
ne3Ct t^11 " ' , ' o ' ,ce ' '"r alt Notes or "
e - J puyable at thi^X3.n?Jc,which .full/due en that
ana the enfuin;' 6 days, will be served on the Pav»
0- CIS: And the like Notices on every .Yionday, till
It the further orders of the Dire3ors.—Perfons' wifH
f. mg to deposit N.tes or Bills for Collection, which
r- arc to «" Jue within the week, imift tfcemfelvee
t undertake to give notice ro the Payer? dtf
ie The Health-Office '
e, . "moved to the City-Hall, and is kept open
a _ nl £, llld d »y. where persons having hufin. fs may
apply. Wm.ALLEN, Heakh-Officer.
" JW- 4. rit f
h no r r trz "*
.THE Offices of rhe Department of War are for
II the prtfent removed near to ths Falls of the ScuyX
1- kill, on the Ridge Road.
> r Sep'ember 4.
l " Post OrvrcS, September sth, - x 707.
The Post Office will be removed to
morrow at 3 o'clock, P. M. to Mr. Dun
-- lap's Coach house, 12th fireet,between Mar
: ket and Chefnut street, where merrJiants and
is others will J>leafe to fend for their letters, as
'be letter carriers during the continuance of
', l^e pref?nt prevailing iicknefs will not be
1- sent out.
Kedron Wine.
V Jua arrived, hy the brig oapt Rhodes, from
, Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes, hhds.and quarter caifct
teewt. Cork, for sale hy
! Philips, Cratfiond, & Co.
c J u| y 2l /
1 Mrs. GRATTAN . *
' ! INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
; I that hr house, No., 192, Markit-lirect, will con
j 1 tinue open doring the fieknefs.
] Board and Lodging in a separate room, te"x
r collars, in a double room, cisht dolkars.
I For the convenience of thofj gentlemen who
> : have not thuir lamilies in town, Mrs. ©kattak
, i will receive gentlemen to dine at Baif * dolus
" 3 da T' 29.—f.t
' lnfurance Companyof North Amerisa.
Stockholders in this ctfcmpanv are here
i. hy informed, that, pursuant to the fifth
clause of their Clnrter, and at the re<queft of *
" Number of Stockholders, who, tanether, are
proprietors «f Six Thou fan d Shares, and up.
wares," a general meeting of the Stockholder*'
will be held at the Company's Cfffice, on Mon
dif t;:e 25th day ot September next, at n
o clock; it. M. for the piirpofe of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction ; and taking into
tonfideration such Regulations or Pye Laws as
may be presented iti conformity with tlie Ch»r
t«r of Incorporation.
. EBEN. HAZARD, Sefry.
J"'y wAftSzj
TO BE SOLD, . " ~
Asd immediatt pojfejion given,
A Convenient well finifhed Brick 1 enement,
_ with a cook house anil other out boufesr, Htu
atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wiiminsr
totr, in the Stste of Delaware—l he lot of ground
has forty feet front on Wefl-flreet, and errends
tiireugh the square to Pasture-street, on whicii is
creiled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
Window Glass,
Of Superior'Qualityr and oheaper than any otbef in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
Fiom 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the finglt Box or Quanti'y. may he had at the
of the Subfcriters, comer of Arch and Front-
II reel.
"James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.•
PhiU4uI P bi» v 1797. 1 »mi»fif
just publiftied,
And to he fold at the Bcokftcres of H. & P.
x Wice > No - s°. Market-llreet 1 J. Ormrod,
No. 41, phefnut-ftreet, and V/. Young,
t-orner of Chefnut and Second-flreets,
Aa accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAIN FD, /
1. Decimal fractions, in a plain, c*nciii?,
and easy manner. '
2. Theextraftion of th« square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, re&angu'lar and ch
lique.
A- An exidt method to call up the contents
of lands.
5. Field fjrveyinj*.
'i lie whole being performed without the use
offcale and compailes, on a table of logarithms.
In which is.giv.en some acc.unt of the variation
cis tlie needle, and the causes of its attraiUti,
By SAMUEL MOORE.
August 1, 2aw»w
$ rF7?E DOLLARS REWARD.
V> AM away from the subscriber, an indented
IV Servant Girl, named Nascy " nderson.i a- Jt
bout twenty years of age, short, thick set person,
with snort black Hair ; had ou when ihe went away, A
'a dark calico gown, an old black 61k cloak, and a
Hack fur ha ; . Wb.ocvrr will ftcbre said girl, and "*
J,-- i:,!,«rniauW thereof to the lubicriber. No. 5, !.
f alley, or to the office of this Gazette, thai
lliall r-'c ivc the aboy-reward. _ < diti
All \ J'fons are forbid harboring said girl, as tra
tli-v will bp dealt with as the law direfts I"!;
MARY ANDERSON, ft
N. B. Stiid Girl is from Ireland, and ha* been it J
tins country but a ilicrt time ; ihe was Imt to tho
work-hcufc for mifconduft, where fte wai taken
sick ami removed to the eity-hcfpitil, from which
cl. ce (he nvde her ef.ape.
AwfiiQ. " n '
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the lign of the Indian
Queen, in the city ,of Baltimore, on (he 25th
J-.y of Oiifober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
Ah&ut iVfven tiionfand acres of land,
the pnawrty of William Bell, ef Philadelphia,
•jy ß g I jtv/eea Ueifter's-town and Weltminfter,
commonly called Little Wincheder, (the turn
pike road rims through a confiderabie part ol
thtfe lands) the traa begins about 17 miles
froin Baltimore, within .1 few hundred yards,
of l'jid R jitter's- town, and extends to the dis
tance of abtjut twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lies on th' main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to lour miles thereon. Will
lie /fold in traflsor one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor-1
t n t>f meadow and wood land on each |
1 >ine of them highly improved, with excellent j
buildings and fine grifs.
Also
A trail of fevqn hundred acres of ry
Uild, called Clovrr Farms, within five miles of K[
Uladei fhurg, eft'eemed very stood for C.-ifs.
Richard, Pou fen by,'of Blader.fburgh, will (hew ,d e
this land to any person inclined to purchase. la
also, »>
A tra£t of land of about three hun-j
tired and thirty acres,, within about two miles
and a half ot the Present's house in the tede- ■ _
ral City- It is nearly all wood land, and a line
hi'-h profpe>ft, froa which may be fcen the
city of Walhrngton, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down th- Potomac river. Mr. RiAard Ponton- N
by, t of Blaclenfburg, will also stew this land. .
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest j
part of the purchase money. Ihe terms wid • t j
be made known on the day ef lale. 3 ]
May 8 wpn, | d '
just Received, j*
Prom Batavia (via Providence) e
a few Boxtfsof Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Cloves and mhc
for sale by
WILLINGS& FRANCIS, F
Pennftreet. j (
May ;o E
' Davis's Law Book Store, t '
, No. 319; High-Street. ?
GEORGE DAVIS, °
Being buficd for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his prafent house, has £
been under theneceflity of poftprninguntil this day j
informing the geutlemen of the 3ar generally thro
the United States, that his spring importation cf. f
law books in now arranged and ready for (ale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre- _
fptence he has experienced for leveral years pall.
Catalogues, combining the niofl varied colltc
tion ever imported into this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June ZJ. 6w |
City ConimiJ/io tiers' Office, j
Jure 11, 1797- |
IN pursuance of an ordinance from ihe felefl '
and common councils, pafled the aid day of
May fall, appointing the city commiflioners,
and prescribing their duties, feilion 9th,
notice is hereby given,
That the city is divided into five diftrifls,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commiflioners, whois to be individually
relponfihle for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow.
DriftrUSl No. i. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruee-ftreet, un
derthe fuperintendenct of Nathan Boys.
z. From the north fide of Spruce-llrect, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, under the superintendence ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of .High-street, to the
north fide of fyjulbei-ry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulherry-ftrcet to
the north fide of Vinc-flreet, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Tliecleaningof to be in common.
.£s* A ftatcd meeting of the city rommtfiion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in Hijjb
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at j o'clpck.
July 14- fo ' rn .
Stands for Draymen, 13c.
In purfuanee of an Ordinance from tbeSelefl and
Common Councils,bearing date tie nd day of
jtpril, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City CommiJJioners, i7V. Sect, the \stb.
r-pHE following places are fixed upon by the
X said City Commiflioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eaflward of Front-street, on
both fides.
SafTafras, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttrects,
eastward of Front-street.on the north fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide frsm Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftre«t, east fide from to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's llores, east fide.
'WaterVlieet, weft fide from the north end of
Stumper's or Moore's (lores to Pine-street.
Penn-llreet from Pine to CeJar-ftreet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-flreet.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, eilt of l'rout
street, south I'de.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone crossings, east fide, opposite George
Orkley's.
Second-street, between Sattifras and Vine
streets, welt fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets..
Saflafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-llreet,
'" No drav or horse to stand within ten feet of
'"lrjyhs FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
'F>l'th-ftrfet, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets, weft. . ,
Branch itreet, north fide, between xhird and
Fourth streets.
July 14. mwfcfim
A Literary TfeAt. (
Jujl jwbiijhed, han/lfmmly printed on waiting
paper, price I dollar,
A r.ew edition of that popular and entertaining ~
work, entitled
"PHF. FORESTERS, an American Talc ; being PC
!. a fjquel to thahiftcry of John Eull. ttie Clo- A
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, v/ith the ad- 5c ca
dition of t\* o letters, alluding to recent political
traniiflions in America.
The following ejctraA from the Clivis Allegorica,
I Ihew6 the principal chancers that are introduced:
John Bull. »heKingdom of Knglind
His Mother, the CI urch of England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick. Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His Mistress, the Old Coiiftitution
His new Wife, the National Rcprefentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain 4
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Repu 1 lie 1 ' ~
The Frank*, the French Republic *J> r
The Farefters, the United States of Amerita
Robert Lumber, New-Hamplhire 16,5
John Codline, MalTachufetts 5 .> ;
Ilumphrey Floijvfhare, Conneilicut
Roger Carrier, Rhode I (land sc,a
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius New-Jerfey N
WUUam Broadbrim, Pennsylvania tity
Caffimar, Delaware the 1
Walter Pipcwood, Virginia V but
His Grandson, George Walhington A
Peter Pitch, North Carolina mon
Charles Indigo, Sou(tk Carolina he r
George Trully, Georgia ets.
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont T
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky the]
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves Wal
I Rati, Speculators iele:
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins fqua
.JjT This popular and entertaining satirical hifto- two
ry of Amstica is attributed to the Rev. Dr Bbl- fibh
kNap. Tt hasa great (hare of originality and a- w h(
bonnds with genuine humriur. It is continued thc.i
; down to the present time, and charaAerifes those L o t
late political tranfa&icns which have caused so be r
muck uneasiness in America. ing
| Sold ky.H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, the
South Seeond Street, and No. 501 Marked ftject. I c
June 16. _ § j 1
LAW BOOKS, -
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Book/eller s,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street, I n
HAVE just by the late arrivals from Gil
London and#Dublin, their fpritj impoj-ta- an
j tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and mod
approved I.aw Books, which, added to those alrea-
I dy on han'l, form® the mod exteoilve colle&ion ev
er offered for sale in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to notiix, that From the narure of their "1
conne<slicns':n Dunlin, they are enabled to felllrifli V
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very fel
lo\?clt prices. The following are amtng the latelt of
publications. , 1
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 rc.i. tr«
Peake's Cases at Niii Prius ; Ridgeway's Rcforts to
in th« time of Lord Hardwicks ; Floycr's Prodlcrs It
PraAice in the Ecdeikftical Courts ; Barton's be
Trcatif« "on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's PraAice of dr
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Adtions, a so
complete ; Ward'a Law of Nations ; Cruise m
on Uses ; modern Reports, I a vols. London edi- j fie
tion. fr
H. and P. Rxcs cxpeffc t® receive by the firft ar- fii
6 rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of br
[ Durnford and East's Reports, thtidpartof Gil- dc
bert'sLawof Evidence by Loft, and a number of as
new publications. th
June 26. D
- f a
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD, ai
TS now in the press, and will be published, tf
1 with all convenient expedition, by Z> cha- C
- riAH PouusnN, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue c '
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library, P
according to the printed projKifals, until the P
! work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. ' iawtf
|j - - - *
Printed Calicoes. 0
If JOHNMILLER, Jun, & Co. e
y No. 8 Cbc/nnt Street,
d Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly afibrted, very low on
> (hort credit.
!- March 6. _ _ ? '
0 Richard, and James Potter 1
r . HAVE removed their Counting House to No. !
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
'' Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carlijlc, \
ie Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
:o
r . public are reijujfted to tske notice, that
JL the partnership which has far fomenme fub
n filled between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, i now diffolvcd : hut, not as M.
[j. Slough infmuati .to the public without just cause ;
as will more .fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& fiom M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the ac)th
- ■ December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wiflie3 to be
j more circumstantially informed of the merits of
' f this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slough'.- letter, and then can be
°* at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeflly juflifiabie in attaching him
. felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
or Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
on Now from tb* liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
ts> this buGnefs, William Geer, in conjumaion with
ly. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to toprofecute and carry it on, with every eare, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie can pofubly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
al- with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage seise and commodious, inform
of thof« wno wilh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they ran take their feats at
George Weed's, the (ign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on'every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carliflc and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
established. '
, For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednel'day from the house
r £ e of S.amucl Elder, in Harrifburg, Vrrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
ine and return from thcoce and arrive at H;irrifburg
every Saturday, lo that palfengers dedined for
Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed os Mon
et, " 1> " WILLIAM GEER.
I.ar.caller. Jan. z), 1797-
of N. B. T bis Line of Stages starts from tbs I
house of William Ferr»c, in Lancaftcr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
fill ceeding to the westward; and Irom the house of j
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg'every Wednci
iut day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's m Shippenfburg, and returns
nd from thence on every Thursday; performing ihe
some routine daily as in its fccur ircui Fhijai'el
-1 phia.
City of Washington.
J Fro
S C. Ii E M E
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For tbi Improvement of fke federal C/iy.
A raagnificeiit" IweJliog-bonfiJ »o,o66d<JHar»,
& caih 30,006, ire 5'®,000
1 ditto 15,000 & ca!»
1 ditto 15,000 & caih 15,000 30,000
i ditto 10,000 & caih lo,'»oo *O,OOO
1 ditto 5,ti00 *< cash 10,000 I>-
1 ditto 5,000 & cam j.ooo 10,000
1
1 do. 5,000 each,are - 10,000 •*
xo do. 1, - *«o,ooc
10 do. joo - - 10,000 W
00 do. 100 - • 10,000
360 do. 50 - ■ io,ooe I
400 do. J5 - 10, oop | (
1,000 do. ac> - ap.ooc > - a
15,00© do. «£> - r5»,00c i
*6,739 Prizes- Pel
Blanks. drr
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000 jj;i
UtI
N. B. To favour those v<ho may take a quan
tity of Ticketa.the prize of 40,000 dollars wdl be " j
the last drawn ticket, and tbe 30,000 the last
but on* :
And approved notes, feeuring payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will
he received for any cumber not lets than 30 tick
ets. •
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ercilecl in the City of t
Washington—Two beautiful defines are already
(eleflcd lor the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it is proyofed to ereil,
twocentreand "our corner buildings,is foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, andtocenvey them,
whm complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, is So
the.manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
b® made to defray the necessary expenses of print- /
ing, flee, and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended f«r"the National University, to 4,
be ereiled within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the j c
! Brizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bonk of Columbia, and are valued at r,
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SJtMVEL IiLODCET. „
,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colsm
bia ; cf James Weil & Co. Baltimore; of Peter -J
Gilmao, 3ofton : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry. '
c
From the Otfego Herald. f'
CAUTION. "
WHEREAS a combination of men in this m
county hare undertaken to enrich tham- , ih
felve»,by fabricating titles to sundry valuable trads h
of land, the ptopevty of gentlemen living in New ci
Yoik, Philadelphia, London and Paris, lor which ) «
trail-* of hnd large funis of money have been paid | »
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchafcrs i' (
It is therefore just that public information should 2
be £iven, to the end, that the injured may fetk re- 1
dress while the na<fcn have property, and are to be t
found. Those who have bein discovered arcTru- ' #
mnn Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re-
I fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
j several others who go under fictitious names. It is
■ supposed that the lands offered fcr falcon those fa-
f bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand e
■ doli&rs. Such as we have a&ual knowledge of are t
i as follows ; Lots No. II and la, Otfego patent, j f
thousand acres each, the ailual property of William I
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64. c
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of i i
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and James Averill
and other*, of tkii- State. There is some grounds c
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
' Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their ; j
management. —The Printers will do well to give
£ this a place in their papers, as well to caution the ■
L ! public against purchasing those lands, as also to de- (
9 prive those men in future from imposing on indivi-
C dusfs, which their education and address have en- j
übled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a ftiopkeepcr of some note in tfiis country.
The following affidavits will fct in a dear point
of view the wick#dnefs of those men, which when
the publifc have peruf' d, will induce them to ex
cuse the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 28th, 1797.
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
n ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, ol the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, O Ifgo patent, which
was the property oi W Uii'm T W.uiklin now Mr.
Chamofit's and others ; and further the laid Joseph
and Trtoman did periuademe to do this agairtft my
. inclination, which was made out on the icth day
I of Noremher, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and furthtr the nam« of
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fi&itious nam®,
there being no fnch perion thtre. To this 1 make
voluntary oath. THOMAS K£LL\ .
19th July, r 797-
On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before
me, Thomas Keliy, the Jubfcriber to the above af
fidavit, and mads: folcran oath tlavt it contains noth
b- ing but thefruth.
nd ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Paace.
VI. On the 18th July, 1797. oame before me Jacob
e ; Kibby, a perfonhy me well known and worthy of
ib— gcod credit, who on hi* solemn oath did fay, that
th two of the parties abovementicned did make ap
n* | plication to him this deponent, some time in the
be J winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
of ! sand acr»s of land in the Otego patent, ard pro
ve » mifed this deponent a share of the profits, on the
be faie of said lands, for his so doing ; and th t they
7f. made applicat ion several times for the fame purpo'e,
m- which fervictfs this deponent as often refufed, de
he claring to them that Jie, had no right to lands, and
nf- could do no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related among his
:he friends several ti»es, pravious to making this afli
in davit. JACOB KIBUfcA .
ith Sworn before mc,
led ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of ihe Peace,
at- Aug;. ,3. iaw-jw.
lb ' Thirty Dollars Reward.
led T? LOPED from the fervics of the fubferiber,
:to -*-<* on the 19th instant, a >iegro man by
rm name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
the and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
at a carpenter, and is a very lively brilk work-
He» man. His countenance h very good —When
Jay spoken to, he converles with ease and conO
lrS» dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchased
:rto the said fellow ot* Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
name he has advertifed in the Uichmond
I,IC » r.ewfpapeis. During his lall runaway trip (lalt
u^c fujcnftier Jhe was amployeda corifiderable length
. un " of time, by some person near Dumfries, from
' which circumstance, I he has taken
l | another irothern route. 1 forewarm all perfous
from giving him employment, of any kiiid
whatever, and cnaflersof vefieUand other £j from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
1 miles of this city; and an additional sum, in
erv proportion to the distance he may be Hrought,
ro _ or the trouble and expence the apprehender may
c f beat, in bringing him to this place.
b b AUG; DAVIS.
pT- N. B. His apparelas of the usual negro kind,
ins but he had more c)oaths than is cuitomary lor
the them to toolTcfs. . _
1- > A.D.
f Riclinnftd, June Hj 1 797•
Will be Landed,
From on board the {hip A&ive, Capt.Er.Aiß,frem
Hamburgh,
So baits white Ruflia clean Heuip L. !
1 cr.Svs Clever Seed
For Sale by , ( .
Thomas Herman Lcujjcr,
NorthFi/tfe flrjet., No. 34. tub
Tune r6. '' ailt
William Blackburn, „' h
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICJ| "c
No. 64 south Sefcond-flreit. ' " g
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No.'ll, which " a
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR " a
SAJ..E. The price of tickets will rile in propor- " t
tion is the dnwing advances, particularly on ac- «
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prices of ti c
four thousand dollars each, on the last day ol it i
drawing. " 1
Cheek Books kept for examination and regifler- j
ing, in the Canal, No. 1, City of ">Valdington, No. „ £
a, and Paterfon Lotteries. <
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuyl'.ullbndge and „ f
Perk.omen 3ridge lotteries, which will begin u
drawing im the course of the f«miner.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed with the '
utmost actcntion. !
June 2 tu&f ag'
Erfkine's View of the War. pn
iuST PUBLISHED, in.
By ROBERT CAMPBELL 2c Co.
No 40 South Second ftraet,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Cau/es and Confequen- ~
ces of the prefsnt War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May is § ( L
STATE TRIALS. g
Sold by W. Yoong, Bobkfeller, No. J*, South Se- | tri
eond-ttrtct, tb
The Pennsylvania State Trials, j VVI
CONtaining the impeachment, trial,and acquit- ! tL
al of Francis Hopkinfan, Judge oftbeCourt of tl
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen- 1(
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3 ~
dollars. ,[
W. Youkg has for sale, a general afTortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and bythe pack
•ge, well and entitled to the drawback if
axparted. July 7—* J
■ eti
THESUBSCRIBER having been appointed by tic
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miuilier Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
to* affiding Britilh creditors, and luch particular a
ger.ts as th«y may Ipecially authorize, in profesuting
their claims before the cammilfioners for cart yi.-g is
to effeft the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between hit ltritannic I'ajeJly and r
I the United States of America, hereby gives notice that
he hat opened his office at his house the foutli east hi
corner of Chefnut and fifth flroets, Philadelphia, tl
1 where he is ready to receive all claims or inflruflions t J
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof, (a
for the purcofe of bringing forward the Tame agree- |
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe. _
And at it will be for the interest of all concerned,
that the several claims be so Dated, and support- tl
«d, as to prevent the delay which would arise from f<
" the neceflitydf obtaining further inlormation, or ad- j<
ditional materials,from perlons reGding at a diElance, t
s the general agent thmhs it his duty to add, (for tbe
• direction chiefly of those, wly>, not having employ-
1 ed particular agents, may leive the profecytion of
: their claims to his charge and management) that all
, such claims ought in particularto I'ctfprth—
i I id. The proper description and fitnation cf the -
~ I ereditor or claimant, and original debtor, refpeft
f i ively.
1 ad. The date andnature of the origins! contradloc
s debt.
j 3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent, J
the creditor orclaimant was prevented or impeded, )
f by the provision, operation or defeft of law, the r
C 1 decifionsand praftice of courts, or restraint of exc- 1
5 | cution, from recovering payment cf the d»bt in a
question.
4th. The loft and damage inourred or fuftatned, 1
* in consequence of such impediments, whether the c
n ftme may have arisen from the nifolveney, change of ]
situation, or death of the debloi, tbe loss of legal (
it remedy from lapse of time, or othercanlesimpa'ruig j
n the value and security of the debt, which would tint j
[- have so operated if such impediments had not exilled. (
Andj'h. The puticul'tr grounds and reasons on j
which the claimant maintains, in tlve terins of the
r- treaty, th«t "by the ordifMry course of judicial pro
j the creditor einr.ot now obtain and atinaHy ,
l have and receive full and adequate coaipenfation" lor
1 the loftes and damages so fuftaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
"i* geft that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly alteßed, both as to lik exiflence
'T of the debts claimed, and such other circumstances
as as may be within their own knowledge r#lpe£lively.
°f And wherever the claimants in dating the nituie of
ltl > theil' evidence (whichmuftin evcryinflance be the
ice bed of which the ease is capable) bavc ocrafion to
refer to the tellimouy of witnefTes, it will be proper
toapprifsthe general agent of the names and pisses
re of refidcnce cf such witnelleiand the fa&sto be cila
if- blifhed by their teilimony.
h- Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia. June Bth, : 1797. d
ob For Sale,
°f That well known place, called VanDKQt.it j'i
' at F F R R Y,
P" Nefhaminy creek, '8 hhlcb from Phili
he 01l the New York poll road,
u " containing 74' acres and 94 perches. Upon the
,°" premises are a large two ftoty stone hrrnfe occu
"e pied as atvern, and a good one story flone kit
' \ chen, a large frame liable with a good threlhing
i e * floor, and fomc out buildings—also a well of
" n j good water, and an exfcelient iee House. On
on this place is a moll elegant situation f'ora gentle
his man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
ffi- iny to it 3 junflion wiih the Delav. aie, and thence
across to the Jcrfty shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the S.tibfcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vav 14. .itawtf.
er) COLUMBIA HOUSE
tSe Boarding School for young Ladies,
ge, -« ffl-RS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
lde IVi ure and refpeft, returns her fincerc ac
tk? knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
:en she has received during four yt-ars refidcnce iw
Philadelphia ; and ajfufep her friends ami the
jublic, so far from intending to decline her
ol " e lchool, Ae has made a fuperibr arrangement for
>nd t jj e convenietit accommodation of her
last lUiolars. —Every branch of ulef'il and polite
S'k is particularly attended to by Mrs.
om Groom bridge and mafttrs excelling in their
cn refpetSlive profrlTioni.
onii Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets
ir '4 June 5 th, 1707. (Jxmfrf
om The fituatiun is perfefll>" healthy ; and made
re " more agreeableby an extenlive garden and lot
rt .y of ground adjoining the hoi'.le.
ht" Juji Pitblijhed,
My And to be had of Messrs. Dol-fon, ell,Rice,
Gary, and the other pricipal Boolcfcilers in the
city.price one dollar, twinty-fiv.e cents,in aotirds,
nd - New Views of the Origin cf the
'° r Tribes and Nations of America.
Ey IiENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, n.fi.
June jo. Lt
No. i P i.
Bifir'tfl of Pcna/jki«Mii, to oik :
r ]3E IT that on the
.13 fifteenth (Uy of June, ui the twenty
fi-fl year fit the In dependence of the United
l-tatcs of Amenta, Jam' s Woodhous', of
the faiil diftriel, hath denofited in this office the
title of a bo. k, the right whereof he claims as
author, in the words following, to >vit :
" The Young Chemist's Pocket. Companion,
" being a Difcripti- n of a Portable Labaratory,
" containing a rhilofopliica! apparatus, and a
" great number of CJiemical Agents, bv which
" any person may perform an er.dlefs variety of
" amufirigand iiiftrtifling Experiments, deCs..n
---" ed for the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
" intended to promote {he cultivation of the
" Science of Chemistry in the United States of
" America. By James \Voodhouse, M. D.
" ProfelTUr of Chemistry, in the University of
" Pennsylvania. Prefidtnt of the Chemical So
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
" At present every thing that is rot denomi
" dated Chemistry, is but a small part of a lyf
" tem of natural knowledge.
Prteftly on Air '*
In conformity to the afl of the Congrefsof tM
United States, intituled, " Anafl for the encour
agement of Learning, by fecuringthe copits of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of fuchcopies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Cierkof the
Biftrnfl of Pennsylvania.
July 18. djt—wstf
No. 18 8.
Diflritt of pennsylvania, to wt :
(r si ) ~R En REMEMBER, that on thc
K • ■) twenty sixth day of July, in thc fcwen
ty second "year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the faiddif
- | tridl,hath depofitedin this office the title of a
the right whereof h claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit—
" Observations on certaia documents contained
£■ " in No. V. and VI. of " The thc Unit
j " ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" { " of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
* Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
£ " Written by himfeif,"
In conformity to the a<& of the Corgrcfs of the
£ Ucited States, entituled, An a& for the encour
agemtnt of learning, by feeuring the copies cf
maps, charts and books to the aurhcrs anrf propri
etors of such copies, during th» timet therein men-
Y tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Difrift of Pennsylvania*
~ July 17. _ ' wjw
Public* Notice is hereby given,
d at June term, 1797> a petition wa*
>t X presented to the Court of Common Pleat,
ft held it Yark Town, in the State of Pennfjdva
a, nia, at the initance of James Short, praying
18 i the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
• tain Andrew liickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
®" James Morrifon, and John Sample, executora
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
v. acres of Land, situate in Menallea
■t. townOiip, in the county of York •• —All per
m sons who have any objeilions to make to the ob
d- je£l of the Pud petition are desired to attend at
e > the Court House, in the town of York, cm the
be day of September next, qtherwife the loft
1' deed will be supplied.
° JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
July 18. eo«S*
a- 30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday feft, two indented Ser»
vants.Gifforrl Dally, a mulatto boy, about j7
d, years of age, a ltim light built active ft llow, can
he read and write,five feet l'even or eight pches high,
:e- has a heavy countenance; had on a iuftian coatee
in and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fins shoes &t.
Allan Htllons, a black man, about a 4 years of
■d, age, five feet fever} or eight inches high,a thiek fee
he clu nfy built fellow, particularly about the breech";
°' h.id'on a faflor's blue jacktt lined with fwanfeiu,
> a ' i dark striped vest, fultian trowfers, high crowned,
'"S i hat, cearfe flioes, &c.; each of them had feveral
'jl I fliirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
' t ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 doU
j lars for each, ar.d reasonable charges, oh delivering
r ' o _ them at No. 54, North Third-street.
Py The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
l or Town, in the County of Sussex, state of Dels
ware, and has the boy with him.
ug. July 31. mtu&f.iw
g ' Yo'bt SOLD or RENTED,
'A i'AROE 3 Story Brick House, on the
JTV South fide of Filbert street, between
c ,f Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied astheiSur
the veyor General's Office.
to The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
per the lot ric feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
ices ix-jt wide Alley extending the whole length of
:l^a " the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The House is not plastered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is suitable for a large ManufaiSlory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
) pcfleflion will be given.
s Apply to No. 111, Chefnut-Street.
Ang.<ai. v
lih- _____ —:
>ad, Miifical Injlrument Manufactory,
'. • No. 167, Arch-Strect.
kit- TTARPER.harpfichord,grand,portable gra»:d y
11. fid:-board, pier tabic and fouare piano torte
'."jj. niikir ircra London, returns thank!,to his frici;da
ar.d the public, for their liberal encouragement»
ar.d hopes that by his atHc-'uitv and attenfitn to ev
-1 cry.branch of his tufnefs, ton erit acortinuance
ara " cf their.favors. Fiano-fortes made on thi newest
cnce and mod approved plans, with pedals, r*tei,?,
' e S e fwcll, and French harp hop, whrch heflstteis
e> himfelf will ue found en trial by unprejudiced
judges, to if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cei.t 1 hcaper. Any inllru
:f. m ,rt purchased of bim, if not approved cf in.
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical Inftrulr.er.ts made,
ICS. uncd, and rep&:re. with the greatcll aciurrcy,
leaf- dispatch, and on the moll reasonable teini-, uc
ac- ready money only.
neHt Second Piano Fortes Saken in «x«hange»
"e iw May «c ■ &mi'»
' her Forty Dqllars Reward.
t lar away from the fubferiber on the fee
her lV end day of this inll. July, a Mulatto Man,
rl ' te named Will Bowzer, about forty years of rgf,
Mrs. f )vt . s ect seven or eight inches high, rather
their chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers
tSi and jacket. It is probable he wiil change hi*
cloathes, as he took a number v.ith him. The
n;K ' e said fellow formerly belonged to Mr- Charles
' ot Blake of this place j and it is expeired he has
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delawars
State. —Any person apprehending the feid fel
low, and securing him' so jhat 1 can get him a-
R,ce » gain, Cull receive the above rewar i if takea
1 ' i»ot of the county, and Twenty Dollar.■> it in
"^ uS ' the countv, and all reasonable charges if bro'fc
the korae .
;a . JESSE REED,
Queen Ana's County, Maryland.
Ct July 3- w^t