Ettt of tire ak » Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
N uMsr.R 1604 J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS.
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 3s,
JWanlavJ fntith Front-flreet,
' Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C South Front-street.
f Forenoon—John Cosnefly, Old City
TiefJacJ Audlion, No. 73 foutli l'rpnt-ftreet.
• y Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
**#« J A £feliaS"**
■rk.r/i., S To,
I Afternoon —Joan Connelly.
p ■j 1 Forenoon—William Stunuon.
'' J 3 Afternoon —John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
Vootman if Co's Auction Room.
r I "'HE public are refpe&fqlly hi formed, that the
JL ; oorc of the fubfcrTbers is row open syr the
reception of Goods, and the Sales will commence
on Monday next, the 30th inft. when will be fold,
A large aftortment of Dry Goods.
AMONG WHlCtt ARE,
Superfine and common Cloths
Caflimeres, Flanne's, Blankets
Coatings and Bai?es
Cotton and worftcd Hoficry „
Chintzes and Calicoes
Chintz and purple Shawls
Book and jiconet Muslins
White anj brown Li tens,
Tii kings, Checks and Stripes.
ALSO
A quantity of Ladies' Morocco Shoes.
FOOTMAN S3* Co. Aufifirnrs.
0.1, tj. ri
To be Sold at Public Auftion,
On Saturday evening, Nov 4, '97, at 8 p'dock,
a; the Merchants' Coffee-houle,
doll. cts.
I Note drawn by James Greculeef
in favour of and endorsed by Edward
Fox, dated 9th August, 1796, due II th
OiU.'ler lad, 1,300
3 do. drawn by said James Green
leaf in favor of and endorsed by Ed
ward Fox dated jth 1 twuft, 1796, at
4 fcipnths date, 1 payment del|. }6!l
13, loßt 14, and i6J5f 14, amount
together 89,43 4 1
3do do. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed asaforefaid, payable ia eight
months, payment!, dols. 1693 75 each,
amount together 8081 1J
3 do. dp. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed as aforefaid, payable in 11
months, payments, dols., §693 73 each,
amount together 8,081 a 5
»Jios 91
I draft dr*wn by Robert Morrison
Jo!inNicholfon,cU»edißthM»y, 1796,
atizmonths
I do. drawn two
yt-iM 5 000
I do. drawn by John Nichol
fon, gf*Robert M»rris, dated 28th
May, 1796, at 3 j ears 5000
1 do. drawn as aforefaid, at 4
-ycai's 5000
, »o,oo©
The said drafts are fecurtd by (hares
in the North America Land Company
and endorsed by James Greenleaf
I Note dated Boftot, 18th Xylzj,
l7yC,drawutvy 'lh#mas Dawes, jun.
in favor of Thomas Gieenleaf, paya
ble ill January, 1798, endorsed by Da
niel Greenleaf, Henry Newman and
Jumc Greenleaf tajo
1 do. dated Boston, 18thNov. 1995,
drawn by Pjniel Greenleaf. in favour
of Thomas Dawes, jun payable:ft Jan.
endorfed by Thomas Greenleaf,
Henry Newman, and James Grennleaf 6500
3 Notes, dated L'ofton, 17th Nov.
1795, drawn by Benjamin Hafleell, in
favour or James Greenleaf, payable ift
January, endorfed ! y said James
Qteenleaf and Nahum Fay.dols. JSOO
3 do dated Boston, 17th Nov. 1795,
drawn and endorsed as aforefaid, payar
hie lift Jan. 1800, one payment, dolj.
6aoo, 5003,4700 • 15100
One bond, Zachatiah Cox to James Greepleaf,
and afligned by him, dated the lift March, 1791,
in the sum of ten tlioufand dollars, conditioned for
♦he conveyance of 15000 acres of Land, near the
town as Frederica in Glyn county and ft ate of 1
Georgia, the said bend full due.
John Connelly, auctioneer.
oa. 18.
Just arrived.
From Port-au-Prince, and For Sale by the fubferi
bers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
612 hogfhead«,~s
523 1 barret (° f Plime C ° ffee
646 bags J
Hillings' & Francis.
OA. 28. 5
Philadelphia, 03. 13.
THE fubferiber# inform their fri«nds and cufto
piers in town and couqtry,th?t their (lores are now
open in the city, and other* are daily opening, and
that from the prcfent appearance of the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
Afbrtly come' to the city with perfcCl faf< ty. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received frefli
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith iff Co, P. IV. Gallaudst iff Qo.
yohn Davis Iff Co, Sit greaves iff French,
Weill iff Smith, George Dob/on,
IViltberger and Smithy Thomas Ryerfon,
Ale* biljl(ind and Co. T. /?. Hardenberg,
Jacob Spe rry and Co- yohn Smith and Co %
iff Jon a- y*nes, Thomas Orr,
jfCefpele iff Zantzinger> William Barker iff Co,
j4Jam Zavt&nger) Thomas Armat & Son.
John Fries, y* Miller, jun, and Co.
Benjeimin Cs* J. "Job//Jon.
o£t. 14
Walker 8c Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hogfheajs of prime Georgia Tpjbacfq,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeanx
10 Pipes of old J 'art Wine
(Gift, ij. ' Irtwtf
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 30, 1797.
For SAVANNAH,
THI FAST SAILIN C SHIP
w^*t Packet,
Patrick Gribbin, Mafier.
NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
aboveßace-flreet. Is haudfome-
Iy accommodated for pafTengers, and will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paffage,apply
to the Matter on board, or at No. 95, iiouth
Fronfr-fireft, or of the fubfcril cr<,
N. <y J. Frazicr.
Q-st. *B. dtf
v for St. Thomas's,
THE DANISH BRIG
Prince Frederick,
Francis Geojji, Mafier.
WU.L fail with all convenient speed, having
the greater part ef her cargo ready to go
on board. Tor Freight or Passage, apply to the
Captain, or to JOSEPH SIMS.
Oct. 28. s6t
For London,
TH.Z SHIP
Daniel M'Phcrfon, Master.
TO fail with al| convenient speed—a conlidera
blc part of her cargo beidg already engaged.
For terms of Freight or PaiTage, apply to
Rofs Cs" Sim/on.
Ofl. 17. s
For LONDON, '
™ E SWEDISH SHOW
G u ft n f A d olp hz,
Cap. Cm-. IVu. Ramfe ;
Hx'pfSte.'P to fail in all the prsfent month—-A
few tons of Goods are wanted on Freight, and
will be taken on mod*rate terms, if speedy appii
cacion is made. Apply t«
Peter Slight.
Back of his new buildings, Dock-street.
oa 19.
For Freight or Charter,
The Danijh Brig
Catherina,
Burthen about 160 tons.
THIS vessel is now ready to receive on board a
cargo, and may be difp»tcbed to any port in Jiu
lope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
Apply to the Captain on board, or to the fubferi
ber. JAMES YARD.
OA. 19. diet
For Freight or Charter,
THJE OOOD BRI°
S U K E Y,
J;-; /' Jfaac Vredenburg, Matter ;
UOWlyillff at wlanl, ■>" '1 tn comjilttUt
order to recche a cargo. For terms pteafe to ap
ply the Captain «n board, or
John Slyrin,
No. 81, Arch-ftrcet.
WHO HAS FOR SALfI,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
30Q barrel# q/ Hwiuji
50 bufhcl> of Timothy Seed
150 cafe® of Claret, firft quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 19. dtf»
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
Kt»te, and now landing from on bnfrd the
Brig A.tlive, Williim Wiiliamt, MaOer,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale hv
Jehu HoUingfworth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept.ar. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
an( ' bri S GAVOSO, are
rr also for Sale or Charter, and
on board, atWilnnington. Apply as above.
Just N publidled,
And to be {old at the 15cokftores of H. f P.
Rice, No. 50, Market street; J. Ormrod,
No. 41, , and W. Young,
corner of Cliefnut and Second-flreets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IH WHICH IS CONTAINED,
I. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concise,
and easy manner.
1. The extraflion of the fquareroot.
3. Plain trigonometry, reilangular and ob
lique.
4. An exaifl method to call up the contents
of land*.
5. Field furveyiifg.
The being performed without the use
as fc»le and compalTes, on a table of logarithms,
tn which is given Tome accmint of the variation
of the needle, and the cjiufes of its attraction.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
Au?nft P. laww
Lately Publilhed,
Tir-#iTC vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut streets,
A Collection ps Papers on thefubjeftof
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by JSiO/JH fVJSBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Do&ors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell, on contagion, Sec. &c.
Sept. !■?. „ _ 5t
COUGHS, COLDS" ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jtrft received, by W.m. GRirriTits,No. 117, South
Second-flrect, a frefh fupplyof
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge 31 a Botanist procured him
the appellation of the Linnsus ps !?ritain) afld i*
•onfidered. in Engl»:id as a certain cure for the above
complaints; it is also of Angular aflkacy in the
Hoop'ing Cough,
It may alfe be had retail of W. A. Stokes, N".
61, South and T. Stiff, 55, New
ftreet, in bottles a! 75 cent# each.
Wu. Griffitus having observed »iie happy
feiSl ps the medicine, (several cafasof cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand .for it has induced him to order a large
supply, a part of wjiichhe l as just received.
Au^ufflawjw
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefnut Street.
| Samuel & Miers Jr ifhcr,
AJLP KOW OPSVING,
I 5 1 their Warehotife, No. 17, Dock .Mr.-t, u frrfh
aficrtnierit of Woolen and othi-r jfOods, ''rtc to
thefealon, rcctivtii by thcl'.itc arrival- from Euf
land.
Tbey heme atfo f.r S*U,
Ufbon -n
afcerryfatid f '^^adt^jTtt^faikii-
Pott >'■ Hies, J
AfforUid queen's Ware in crates, &c.
Joth mo.- 2 -'ll. firtaw/i\v.
TO BE LET—At a moderate Rent,
The principal part of aHOUSE,
'i'UT-lIN a dkGjrt diftSnae of the Cnffee-hotife,
which h«M Ikcd octupied fjr the la't fqur months,
confiftinf of a good dining room and parlour, two
bed r00r.13 and a drelfing room, twogarr«ts, kitch
en,, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
fit tier the immediate reieptiop of a small family.
None need apply but thqfe who ar.; refpeitablo ond
riijular. Inquire at the office of this Gaiette.
OS. 94 , dtf
TENKRIFFE WINE.
LANDING at Walnut-drect wharf, TENE
HIFFE-WiNE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipe«, for fali by JAAfES TARD.'
'Ofl. to. eoßt
toTr"sold,
jind immediate pojjejfion givtn,
A Convenient well tinifbed Brick 1 enetnent,
J~\ with a cpok hc»fe .in4oth?r out houfes.f.ta
atcd in a plt-afant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the Brace of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty f<et lrput on Wcft-ftrret, and extends
through the fqitare to Pallurc-Rreet, on whiclj u
ere4cd a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE-
Wilmjr.gton, jo.
City CommiJJioners OJp.v,
August 29, 1797.
IN puFfuance of an Ordinance of tha Seleti and
Comfnon Councils, palfed the day of May last.
Proposal? in writing will £e received hy the City
Cu.mil.(fi-)tiers for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leafei for one
year to cnnunencctiu firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
AHbon Saffafras,
Mulberry,
And High Street?,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, I>raw Bridge, with
th« Scale and Filh Houfcs, Spruce, Pine and C«dar
Streets.
The cellar underthe City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the I6t» contiguous thereto, (except to much
thereof as shall be occupied by any building" erect
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or he
necellary for the toll-gates.)'
Ang. 3 ' Jtawitn.
. THE SU^SCIUIIEAs;
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREINLEAT't
HEREBY givenotice, that thej havedifpofed
of the property assigned to them tor the securing
the piyment of the uote«, acceptances, ind en
dwftments given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the Aid James Greenleaf; and the holders of
fnch notes, acceptances, and endoifcaientt, »re
htrehy notifyed lhat the firtiferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their refpefiive
claims, both principal and intsrist, at
any tiijie before the aoth'djy of Oiflober nexjt j
after which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to th« terms of align
ment.
/ jtions to be m'ade at south-east corner
nf IjooJc and Second flreets (the Dock-Ilrfet
fide), between the Hours of eleven and trine o'
•lock eyery day, Sundays excepted. ■
Henry Pratt,
Tho. W. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
Johtt AjUey,
Jacob Baker. -
Philadelphia r Auj;i>fl iS, 1797. d
DUTY"ON'CARRIAGES."
Notice is hereby Given,
r r , HAT agreejbly to an ait of Congrcfs of the
1 United States of America, Jiaffed %t Phila
delphia, tie *Bth day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ti*n on Carriages for tlie conveyance of perforrs,
which lhall be kept hy or for Any perfqn, for bis
«r her own use, ortolet out to hj/e, or for the
conveyance of the several dutie6 and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Ceach, 15 dols.
upon every Cl ariot, I z dols.
upon every Poll Chariot, II dolp.
upon every Poll Chnife, ia dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 tfols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelworic
above, with blinds, glade* or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med pods and tops with Heel springs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
fprings or jacks, t dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriagcs, 3 dols.
Upon two wheel carriages, with Heel or
iron fprings,'3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a doN.
upon every four wheeled cirrjagc, having
' framed polls and '.ops, and reding up
on wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Collector, rif the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftrifl of Pennsylvania, will attend
H.iily, until the 30th day of September o'-xt, (or
the purpose of receiving the duties qjl Carriages, at
German to wf.; at the house of Daniel St. Clair, Esq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James.Chapman,Esq. in the County of Bucks;
of which all perfonspoffclTed •f fudiCariiagesare
desired to take notice.
Notice is'alfo given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif
tille'd spirituous li<;uor«, thatlicences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi
licfs of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in lefa quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying'on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised te grant fucli licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeilcr of the Revenue of the firft fui
vey of the Diftri<stof PsrtnfylVaitia.
Office of Infpctftion at dim
Gernaantow, ijtfi Sept. 1797* >
From Marseilles.
THECAKUO
Of (Ik* SwetJlßibarque Gtifiavus AdoJphufjfrotß
Marfr.isfs, ca»'filiiog of the article®,
is [iili hiTg'Ug at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
lale by the fyiifc/ihcrs
KU 1 . J.'DY, well flavored, of i, 3 & 4th proof
Ciiret, in hogfliciKls
in tai'e.
frontignuc Wine, in cases ef 30 bottles
Olive Oi.V of a i'uperior quality, in baikcts of 6
and 12 bottles
Capers
Olives
AJsnonds
Pry Verdigreafe ;
U'riting Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 28, 30 and 32 inches
Taffetits
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkeichiefs, in imitation of Madrafr
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Oitrich Feathers
Ribboes
Perfumery
Scented Haiv-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in f»rls
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MOUGAN &
UObERT ANDREWS".
September 17. _eotf
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and I'lnft-ifFe Wine
for by
James Tard,
No. —, South Fourth4(reet.
OA. 6. JV,Y
Imported in the ship Manchester,
Benjamin Shewell, Matter,
From Bourdcaux, and for sale i>y the fnbfcriber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeanx Bnmdy "1
Irish market claret in cases / Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. J Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
who HAS FOR S4.LS.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufliejs Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
Boston Glaf6 Manufa£tory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Gilts is new commenced at the GlassHouse in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it isfo well known
throughont the United States to be in every refpeit
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any C*e commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Cmakles F.
Kurriß, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept O4 —»aw6w
JMrJjfri. Timutby an.i Afofon, Cbarlcjhn ; Mfjfrt.
Hodge anJ JSoyJan, Halifax, N. C. Jrlcjjri. Willctl
and O'Connor, Ncrf-<lk ; Mr. Ellis Trice, Alexandria ;
Mejfrt. Yvndt and Brown, Baltimore; Mr. Hopkim,
NewiYbrt /* and A feffrs. Hudjon <s* Gocdvvin, Hart
ford ; Mr. tSeymcur, Sfvaniub ; are reqteejlcd to ixj'crt
the atmif pnfe a week 6 ivdets. 'The account/ to be for
warded to the Edit jr.
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1791,
Prefsnt John Hal!, Ses-'ry ~i
Friucip John,'wni R- Q- f oflandofTice
Brodhe«l, S^G-J 1
NicJjplat Kettingtr, )
>
Samuel Cunningham. )
In this cafe the proof of service of notic? be
ing insufficient, It it that notice tie
cn in oi>e o+' tin: York pewli:a
per; \jeeltly, for at ica.lt e weeks •" th(
heirs or allignees 0/ Samii.tl C/nnineba.m ,4!*-
ceased, to atttend thf hoard 011 the firll Monday
in November next, to fliew caule why a patent
Siould not issue to Nicholas liettiiigei for the
land in question. _
(A true Copy.)
J».)HN HALL,
Secretary of the L*ud Office.
.Aug. 15. * ijwßw.
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
M 1 LLS.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THE IK fuperioritj cor.ftjls in being fret from
boles and hontj-awibei places, which are com
mor.lv found in rollers caJl in Jcind, or eiay
moulds. Theft patrnt rollers are cafi in iron
moulds, pt eviovjlj heated, ard "Jjill be found to
be more dense, Jolid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they home over others, is, that the necks require
vo turning, but are immedaitely fit for use, mnd
from their accuracy, run <witb left friHion, and
require iefs water \o ipiake thevi perform their
work. I hey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or of Messrs. Thatcher arid Haywaj d
Do/lon, Aug. 31. Sept. 19- jit
i his Day is Published,
BY Mess. Uobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
othei Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
F. leg fluty printed on IVovc paper, and Not
prejfed,
By J[)\u Thpropfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of th« several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the profcinent features of eaeh Constitution, and
clalftng together their most impertant provisions.
under the l'everal heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrefj of the
United States.
Dedicated to tha People, of the UnifeiiStates.
N. B. A few Copies printed ok an inferior pa
per, at 3-4ths9f a dollar.
Februasjr 6 y rnwf
Public Notice is hereby given,
the CommifliOners for the DiftriJb of
Soythwtirk have removed thek hall to the house
formerly occupied by Samuel. Golf, Chriflian at in
the .corner of ,Fiith. itreu. 3. •!
James & Richard Smitk,
OAK.si the lilnry of Informing their; 'r j< •
* and the pMh:ic, that tiiev have rcTiqyej
l i°rc to N'o. k4, South Fror.tjlreft to Ed
ward Fox a AuS.i i: '■•' <•«.; i., v. I . :
th:s time (or falc, 3 largj atv greiv r .•rtrv.< rr or
European $3 E jl Itidui Goods,
?f »k*i» are jul'r in : ■
Wiiliam ■» cmi, &c. l ?,c.
_a»:.?£r t
Mow Landing,
At Sims' Wharf, from ori board the fljlp Cmnerce,
captain Cii.imbxri.ain, from Port a.u Ptmei,
35 hogfiheads of SUGAR
84 do. MOLASSES
4 tiVces do.
FOR , SALE, BY
Philips, Cramond, Iff Co.
0&. 27. 5
" ROSS E<f SIMSOpI
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Colfas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal '•TJUAR, in lags and boxes
Jamaica, ")
St. Vinceiits, C RUM.
and f !-ngal J
Odl 27. J
Samuel Fleafants & Sons,
No. 74, Sccond-Jlreci,
HAVt received a fuuply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening; for ia!e, on
rcafonabje teim?, Oil 27. —W
St. Croix Sugar &-Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON &■ Co.
Ofl. ?6. d2W.
l i 0 Gentleman who intend jpenaing
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—No. 11.4, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The fituatioa
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the la?<i
contagion. o<sl.2j—dtf
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North fifth street, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOU SALE,
EXCELLENT red Motatdeauj Wiae in cases *M|
boxes, fit years old
White Graves Wine in caflcs
Ticklenburgs
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Heffiaas
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
Coramoa German Cloth
A n jflbrtment of black coloured Ribbons
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in imall boxes, for family us«
Window Glass Aug. 39 —aaiy
Excellent Boui-deaux Brandy
Ditto ditta Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundlc & Leech.
Aug. il. ( jawtf
THIS DAY WAR PUBLISHED,
And for file by THOMAS DOB SON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confiding of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
the inOrailion and amufemcnt of YOUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes handfamely printed and bound
up iu two yohunes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of tbefo pieces are
fyth, that the book needs only to be known to bo
univerfnlly eflecmed one of the mod valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
p fitfons.
" Delightful to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how tu {hoot,
l'o p< ur tku frefli inftrudion o'er the mind,
To breathe oh' enlivening spirit, and to
Tbcgantrous purpose in the glowing bread."
Thomson.
August 24. «i\vf4W
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS J)OB$ON, at the Stone kloiif?,
No. 41. south Second street.
Letters and Conversations,
Between feVtral Young Ladies, on improving and lir.
tereihng fubjc&s.
Tfsnflated from the Dutch of Madame it Camion
with alterations and improvements,,
Printed »«fin t paper , and nmtlj Uuml,
Price one dUiar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ef extraordinary distress, or of dqfperate or
artful villainy, whfch " harrow up the foul," and
which it would he for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where in a variety of inoidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of rial life, the proper, bacauft
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
character isexhibic.edin an int-reftingf oin; of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publifter ivas fomuch pleafudwith the pero
fjl, that he was persuaded he Ihould do a pleafinj;
fcrvice to the community by feodinj it u 1 o circt»
lation. August 24 —mwAw
Imported in tlje latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, and forfale by
B. fcf J. Bohxen,
/! targe ajjorlment of Jine French Camiricr,
Matildas Ki>ffia mdDutch sailcloth
Brittannias Writing, port, and priiw-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch cjjf Ikins
Checks and f.ripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs ShelPd Barley
Oznahnrjs Lor.kir.g guiles
White (heetings Hollow glass war«
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls CoiTee mills
Umbrelias Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knivtii
Black and whitelaces Toys aflorted in boxes
Belt Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
■ July 14. m&thtf |
Aft laying Duties cn Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW conies of the above ait may be had
he Office of tho (Jiisettsof the United .-fates, No
19, Chifmit-ilrect. July 19.
[VaLK'Mr. XIIBssg&jrirm y f '"*w*y*3>
%f)t o&s#t&
P If 1 I. A 1) K I. P H t A ,
MONDAY" EVE; l tN'G, October ;,O. J
A CHARGE
To the Grand juries of the counties of Alteg•
Ir-jy, oc. pM'iJhr.d at the requcjl of the
GrHnd jury ofAlkgitay eotiiity.
That man cannot be governed without
force, is one of' those truths, which, as too
often learnt only by experience,, experience
will Wl abandon. The young mind, unac
quainted with the dangerous effects of hu
man pnffions, cberifhes the delusive idea,
that all men are virtuous, that they haVe no
filfiflj views, but listen to the-voice of reason,
and pursue the generafgood—that restraints
on opinion are unneceflary, and punifhmentfc
of mifcomlua cruel : that, to be be free,
xvs mull be untedrained ; and that exer
tions of the power of government are viola
tions of liberty. Sentiments like these are
received with the stupid npplaufe of the ig
norant, and with the malignant praise of
ths artfully wicked ; and become the vtatch
vords of party, acid fymbojs of fadtion.—
The molt salutary measures, and the mod
faithful ministers of government are fufpe£t
ed, misrepresented, censured, and opposed,
till falfehood triumphs over truth, paflion
over reason, popular opinion over public au
thority, and riot and infurre&ion over or
der and peace : the main pillar of govern
ment, general confidence, is undermined ;
and licentiousness destroys liberty. l
Nor is it in politics or civil government
rlonet'nat these error*and dangers exist :
every where, wisdom will be opposed by
folly, knowledge "by igooVanc#, prudence
by rashness, and virtue by vice. Tbe most
efficacious do&ripes, and the moil benefi
cent precepts of religion are ceufared, as nn
renfonable restraints on human opinion and
conduit ; the mod prudent discipline of the
church, as encroachments on freedom of-life
and manners ; and ite mod; enlightened and
honed ministers as enemies' to human happi
ness, ambitious seekers of power to them
selves, and tyrants over the conferences of
others.
Wisdom and power will never life more
means, than are neeeffary.to accomplish the
end. If man could have been governed by
reason and a regard to duty, would the Al
mighty have had recourse to mysterious doc
trines of faith, positive precepts of praflice,
and the moil awful and tremendous puuifh
inents ? for the government of man, even in
his most perfeft date, it was necessary to
add to the knowledge of duty, the fear of
p tnifnment, and denounce death to the
transgressor. And liamas governments but
imitate the divine, when they trust not to
man'stcafon and virtue alone, to preserve
him ip obedience, but knywing that force
is neceflary, prepare force to keep him in
peace, submission , and duty. Without
fnrre. neither can the wfeful pUrposes of go
vernment be aecoraplilhed, nor the govern
ment itfelffubfid. For (such is the per
verse vehemence of human paflion) a govern
ment without a ready and constant command
of force, will (oort fall.
On this ground we may account for its
being received as a maxim, that a republi
can government is incompetent to an exten
sive territory.
Though, in a republican government,
laws, and not men, govern, and though
laws be made by the whole people, yet, the
people being numerous, no individual feel*
an attachment to the laws as to his own au
thority* While there is no peculiar affe&ion
to the laws in any, there is in many a drong
relentment to them. The laws which are
made to redrain and punish offences, must
be odious to^ offenders, and offenders are in
' ail countries a numerous class. With them
are aflociated, in sympathy at leafl, all who,
from like propensitieS, may forefee like dan
ger to th.mfelres, and wish to prepare in
ctheri a precedent of indulgence to their
future frailty. And even in the mod ho
ned, there may, from the want of personal
iutered and of an enlightened mind, be less
indignation for the wounded honor of the
laws, than companion for the fuff-rings of
the offender. While the people thus forget
tbeir own honour, the officers in .vhofe
hands is the public force, fee! too little in
terest in the office and are too much wittyn
the reach of the people, to oppeuc theit
humour or excite any individual resentment,
by a drift execution of the laws. By a
faithful exertion of their authority, they
are sure to create some enemies, but nc
man feels himfelf thereby bound to be theii
friend. By indulgence to offenders, the)
are sure to create friends, but no man feels
that intered in public authority, as there
fore to become their enemy. Thus thi
disposition both of officers and people is toe
often inclined to relax the energy of th<
laws. Relaxation of the energy of th(
laws will certainly produce licentiousness
and licentiousness will certainly dedroy th<
jrovernment. This will happen, even in ;
narrow territory. But in an extended ter
ritorv all the causes will operate with in
sreafed force, and proportionally accelcrati
the crisis of the state. According as the;
are remote from the feat of government
the vigilance of efficers will be lessened
their refpeft for the energy and dignity o
the government will diminilh, and their mo
tives to indulgence of offences will multiply
Temptations of ambition to set up feparat
independencies will occur or be suggested
combinations will be formed f°r.th,sp>n
riofe which distance will render it difhcul
for the general force to redrain and subdue
Tl"ii evpry. thing will con/pire to produc
a relaxation of the laws ; and of conlt
onem-e, a corruption of manners, licenti
oufnefs of .practice, and a prostration
morals. I" iatc ' oc "- t y> no % c
vevnment of laws can ftmd (for lieer.tioul
ness and can never fufcfi!b together
and a government of force rnutl fuccetd.
Tt results from all this, that, to make
republican govcri:mei: # pennanent, even in a I
small, but efpccially in a large, territory, it p
must be indeed a government of laws, and c
not of the passions either of the people or ! b
the officers. To make it so, it isneceffary, n
not only to provide for the free and enliglit- a
ened edablifhment of laws, but for their in- 1;
dant and energetic execution. To effect an
instant and energetic «xeeution of the laws, V
it is neceflary, to deposit the public force f
, in hands fufficiently independent of the hu- < i
mours of individuals, and fufficiently inter- c
eded in the execution of the laws, at ajl times, <
tojenfure such an application of it, as will i
compel universal submission. And, in such 'I
hands, the powers of government ought to i
be so didributed into every part of the ter- j
ritory, that it may reach, not only into the i
house, but, if possible (with reverence I 1
speak it) like the power of the Almighty; i
inio the heart of every man. If this can be
done, a republican government of laws vyill, i
with the blessings of liberty, have all the 1
stability and forde of despotism ; the people
will be well governed ; for they will be, at
the fame time, free and submissive ; and they
will be happy, because they will be com
pelled to be virtuous.
The force, then, of a republican govern
ment, cortfids in universal I'efpeft for the
Haws. .While that fubfids, the whole people
is a danding army, to compel their execu
tion. When that fails, the laws will not
be executed, and th/government, which ex
ids OBly in the laws, is therefore annihilated.
I may be reminded, that the republic of
Rome governed a vast territory, and laded a
long time. But let it also be remembered,
that it governed by a military despotism, and
is no example to any other republic, which
does not pursue the fame plan.
When the cofiftitution of the United
States was under consideration, this objecti
on to a republican government over an ex
tenfivc territory was discussed. It was said
that the objeition applied only to a fiogle
government over an extehiive territory, and
not to a federate government, as is that of
; the United States. And'it was dated from
j Mo'ntefquieu # , that a federate republic
! compoied'of ftveral states, united together
. under a general government, might preserve
i itfelf from an external force, the great danger
to fmail states, and from internal diffention,
the graat danger to large dates , and might
l become permanent.
This is the nature of the American povern
menrs. Sixteen states, each poffemng all
power necessary for the regulation of its in
ternal concerns, are combined into one, pos
sessing all power necessary for the regulation
of the general concerns : and this feheme,
. on the principles of Montefqtiieu, is compe
tent to secure the liability of a republican
government over an extenlire territory.
Admitting, that this feheme is compe
tent for this phrpofe, dill some proportion
must be preserved between the exttpt of the
territory and the number of fabdivifions ; for
a large territory mud surely be subdivided
into more states tfean a small territory, or
each may, more or less, fuffer the evils of an
extensive republic. The then is,
whether each state be not too extensive for
J its government to superintend, with efficacy,
all its internal concerns ; and whether there
ought not to be subdiVisions, fnbordinate to
1 states, descending to a competency to the
minuted public concerns, and rising, in a
regular gradation, one above another, the
larger comprehending the less. The necef
• fity of this fecms admitted. For every state
1 is divided into counties, and evety county
: into inferior diftri£ts, which, in this state,
' are called townships. This is the lowest
subdivision ; and, perhaps, lower than this,
' may not be necessary : except that, as the
> i fame regulations, which are fufficient for a
- country townilip, may not also be fqffi«ient
for a town, a town is often_deelared a fepa
-1 ratt diftrift, and incorporated, under the
1 name of a borovghf. Thus we have bo
' roughi, townships, eounties, states, snd the
United States'; and our political diftrifts,
1 descending to the fmalled limits, that eon
-1 venience requires, become more extensive,
" by degrees, and include each other, till the
union includes the whole territory of the
5 United States.
e * Spirit of liv/i I. 9. c. !*- • 1
f -f- There i« but one eity in this state.
t l' Remaindtr to-morrow.}
TRANSLATED
1 far th; Gazetti of the United States.
r
, Paris,july 7th, 1797.
a "At the fitting of the council of five
yr hundjed yesterday, a message was read from
0 the direftory, which gives an account of the
r obtained by Gen. Desfourneau
y at St. Pomingo. But news, which inter
s efts us more dire£lly, is what the telegraphe
:- ofLifle has at last announced to government,
e the arrival of the English' plenipotentiary
o in that city the 4th July, at 6 o'clock in
e the evening. There is no sensible man and
e a friend to the human race, who does not
; languish to fee at length the end of this for
e rowful and painful uncertainty, in \fhich
a France is found with so many nations of
■- Europe between peace and war—we almost
1- dare to fay, between life and death. In faft
:e a great part of Europe whjph the confe
y quences of the French revolution have fuc
t, ceffively drawn into the whirlwind of do
1, medic troubles or foreign hodilities, can
>f scarcely resist much longer this tedious mo
)- ral fever, which disorders and consumes it
f. even to its vital part 3. Italy is now in the
te highed of convulsions ; and theeffeft there
; of is felt in the different opinions among us.
r- While the papers devoted to anarchy tri
lt umph on this fubje£t, and the Moniteur,
e. more refetved but not less decided in there
:e volutionary principles, is made the depoGto
e- ry of all the articles, which cry up the de
i- mocratifing of Italy ; —whilft. it announces
of to the kingdom of Naples, that her turn is
0- likewise to coriie ; others censure these e
f- vciits with energy, and a letter infertud in
r) the VHijinrien of to-day, docs it as follows.
" When we reflect on the conduct of the
a agents of the diredtcry with respect to the
United States of America; when we view 5
pKilofophicaliy the deftru&ion of two an- (
cient governments, which were united to us
by treaties, it h alked, if we have a law of ,*
nations and a constitution, which regulate
and determine the mode of our foreign re
lations.
" It) vain that wife constitution shall then
have "offered to our allies a guarantee of the
faith, and liability of their treaties with us,
in the flow and deliberative forms which it
consecrates concerning war and peace ; the -j
direftery, under pretexts of a dark policy
will elude their formal dispositions. A vic
torious general may, nt the impulse of his
paffionp, abtife the power which conquest
gives, violate the sacred Jaws of nations, car
ry fire and sword into allied countries, ereft
himfe'f ict9ja ; fovcVeign arbiter of our rela
tions with them, change the form of their
government, affutr.e the legislator, regulate
every thing by the point of the sword, and
know no other law than that of feree ! . . . .
And the French senate, vested with the na- ,
tional authority, remain in an invincible ig
norance of these extraordinary events
" The government of Venice exiftt n®
mortf; that of Genoa is changed into a pure
democracy. Let us suppose, that Venice has
provoked by perfidy, with which we re
proach her, cruel reprifjls ; if it has violat
ed the neutrality, which it had faithfully
kept till now, a thing little probable, with
out doubt, it should fuffer the punilhment
of it ; but ought this' alledged right of re
prisals to extend to the violent deftrudtion
of its government ? '»>
" In thefirft place, war was not declared,
because the legislative b#3y had not pro
nounced it. But if it had, is a declaration
of war, an arret of death against a nation ?
I know this was the feroeious law of the
barbarous nations formerly conduced by
Brennus and Attila. But I know likewise,
that l'n our polifbed societies offenfive force
if regulated by another law of nations, which
is " the political law of nations, considered
lit the relations which one nation has with
another ; that conquest is only an acquifi
tfon ; and that the spirit of acquisition car
ries with it the spirit of preservation and
ufefulnefs," but not that of dcfiruSion.
" In vain it will be said that tKe people
of these dates, and particularly that of Ge
noa, desired a revolution, that they wifhedto
throw off the yoke of aristocracy, and that
the French geperal did nothing but protest
or favourthisTuddea leap towards liberty . ..
Men, who in their enthusiasm, real or fifti
tioiu, wiflied to fee every thing democrai'tfed,
might perhaps deceive themselves with these
chimerical suggestions, and applaud the re
sult ; but reasonable men, especially those
who have some knowledge of the fadls,
know on what to depend.
" It appears - certain, by ulterior docu
ments, that the mass of the Genoese people
resisted with all their power the innovators,
or the fa&ious, excited by the minister Fay-*
poult, astl-Aicrcd up by all apothecary nam
ed Morando. It appears that the terror of
the French armies and the menaces of a
vi&orious general have alene determinsi the
senate and the majority of the people to
fubferibe to conditions which force impos
ed on them ; and what conditions ! what
strange treaty ! The citpofit of the sovereign
ty it confided, it is said, to the universality of
the citizens of the territory of Genoa .... And
nevertheless, in feigning to pay homage to
this Sovereignty, the exercise of which the
people do not reclaim, we tfiake the firft use
of it! we usurp its rights ! or qtbitrarily
, infiitvte the authorities ! we metamorphose
: the doge into a municipal officer! and the
, pretended sovereign has not even the facul- 1
; ty, the liberty of naming the members of
i the new government which they have eftab
: lifhed ! and from whom then do the innova
- tors hold their commission ? what is their
: law ? the sword of a victorious general.
" In these circumstances, the true frienjls
: of the country, those who interest therji
, selves for its real glory, ought to unite and
■ raise their voices in concert. These ani
, mated voices ought to announce to the di- J
r reftory, to the legislative body, to all polish
: ed Actions, that the opinion of the found
part of the French disavows and reje£b this 1
riy'ation of the laws of nations, this politico
revolutionary system, which for some time
part, seems to have acquired strength, and
tends to render us odious to all the people
of Europe. The true philosophers, the al
armed philatithropifts ought to cry with
Phocion : " The order which the Author
of Nature has eftabliflied in human affairs,
will never fuffer that injufiice and violence,
' which are surrounded only with enemies or
: viftims, should become a solid foundation to
1 the power and glory of any slate."
: e3* University of Pertnfylvania
Oftoler 27, 1797.
THE different Schools of the University will b m
* opened on Monday, the 6th of November ;of
I which, a'l -who are concerned, are requested to
I take notice.
By order of the Faculty.
j ROOF,RS. Secretary.
f ~~ POST OFFICE.
Philadelphia, oSober 26,
t THE Pol{-Office will be removed t*
- No. 34, South Front Street, on Saturday
- the 28th inft. at half pall 12 o'clock, p. m.
- and on Monday, the 30th, the letter carri-
II ers will begin to deliver as usual.
"NOTI C E. ~
THI 7 . she Department of War are f<jr
e the pr.fent r>--iovect rear to the FalU of the Scuyl
kill, on the Ridge Road.
1. September 4. " Htf
The Health-Office
TS removed to'the City-Hall, and is kept onen
night and day, where pcrfons having bufWfs may
apply. Wm. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
Sept. 4. dtf
s A Wet Nurse wanted.
11 A Healthy Woman, with a young frreaft of
'• i V milk, who can he w«ll recommended, piay
e hear of a place hy inquiring of the Printer.
e Oil. 13, iw
Continuation of Latest European News, *
received by the William Pcnu. ;
• '• It
FRANCE. ' I E
r
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED. \
Sitting of Augujl 21. f
The reli& of the late general Marceau (
solicited some pecuniary relief, and Jourdan ,
of the Upper Vienne, whose r'etfeat in
Franconia he covered, passed an eulogium j
on his military conduil, and supported the
petition.
Bentabolle moved, that to the defenders
of the country, be paid the ia.:o millions
. of livres which had been prornifed'them, ,
and observed, that if the state were nor
" able to perform this promise, it (liould be j
_ openly confeffed. Ordered a reparc to be (
j made on the fubje£t. |
Thibaudeau, in the name of. the com
mission appointed to examine into the mef- |
sage of the direftory, refpefting the late
march of the trpops into the interior, and
addresses of different divisions of the re- |
3 publican armies, mad* the following report,'
c prefaced by some introduftory remarks on '
s the prcfent state of France.
" You have ordered your committee to
present to you legislative plans upon the f
different topics contained in the message
which was transmitted to you on the 22d
'' Thermidor last. The committee in the firft
place eonfiderjt their duty to dirtdl your
" attention to our prefeut situation. The
I republic lately advanced towards peace ;
' public confidence was revived ; the consti
tution began to bf consolidated; every
; j thing presaged to us happy, and peaceful
destinies. What evil genius has re-animated
,e our passions, re-kindled our animosities, cre-
ated .divisions between the different branches
'' of governtntnt, and planted terror in. the
breasts of all good citir.eas ? It is time to
j vecal security, to give' confidence to good
citizens, to repress the bad, to restore pub
lic credit, and to support the legislative bo
dy in the rank in which the constitution has
placed it. To attain this objeft, you must
re-e(labli(h your communications with the
. people. Never let your voice be unknown
' to them. From this tribune,. Reason and
e " Justice ought always to be heard with thai
0 spirit of peace and impartiality in which
true dignity consists. Your committee has
proceeded to the examination of the message
of the direftory.
" An unexpefted change in the minis
' try, and the march the troops, had fix
e ed the attention of the legislative body, and
j!" merited its solicitude. In expressing our
e regret on account of the dismissal of the
5 ' miniders, and our alarms refpefting the
march of the troops, we did not contest
with the direftory the right of changing
,f their ministers and disposing of the aroied
s ' force; but the legislative body had un
doubtedly the right of demanding inforra
n" ation refpeArng the violation of the confti
-3 tutional limits. The directory i-cplied, that
a it was to be attributed to an error in the
ie marching orders. You referred this mef-'
sage to a committee, which occupfed itfelf,
as it was wifely said by the reporter (Piehe
-3t gru), less in .proving the crime, than in en
deavouring to prevent it from being com
°J mitted hereafter. This committee prefent-'
ed the plan of a resolution for afceitaining
t0 the constitutional limits,
he , t rau ft no { a t present enquire into
1 the caufc of the marching of the troops.
J Perhaps we shall one 4 iy.be made ac'quaipt
' ed with it ;we have as yet learned only that
e the constitutional limits have been, violated.
" General Richpaufe declares, that having
° been four ye»rs on the frontiers, he knew
i>ot of fiie dispositions of the constitution
relative to this objefl. An excuse of this
;ir nature would not be admitted in the courts
of justice ; bgt the testimonials we have
had of the moral character of the general,
induce us to think that there has been no
evil intention on his part.
j;_ " I procew? to a more important objedl,
si, the address the army of Itaiy. What
n< j would become of the if those who
t j g have received arms only forhei defence, were
Q _ to interpose in civil discussions You are ac-
Bc quainted with the volume of addresses which
have been drawn up by this army. They
jj e are marked by an ardent expression of love
for liberty; but they hold forth absurd
claims, extravagant opinions, and criminal
or proje&s. The firft sentiments belong to
rs our generous defenders, the others to some
' faftious men, who wish to fee the bosom of
Q ' r their country torn even by thpfe who are
to charged with its defence. No, it is not
our warriors, but some ferocious monsters
who have conceived the projeft of deliver
ing up to the enemy the conquests acquired
by the valour and the blood of our troops,
and to lead them back to their families un
der the standard of rebellion. Have you
to been able to read without indignation, one
of these addresses, which asserts that the
fyflem of royalifm is unceasingly pafhed in
the Legislature ? Doss the audacious rebel
who penned this impious phrefe yet exist ?
Does he exist, atid-areyou free ? Does the
t« government slumber, that it has not pro
lay ceeded with rigour againlt him ? These
M> addresses are at present directed agai 11 ft the
Legiflature—Diredlors'of the republic,they
will soon be direfted against you !—Wret
— ched ! wretched is the authority which is
supported by bayonets !■—They always con'
elude by annihilating the power which they
have eftabliflied.—The addresses have been
f certified by the chief of the etat-majors ol
the army. They have been officially tranf
tifitted to several adminiftratioiu : they were
" cn destined to other corps of troops ; and yet
lay this, ij is said, was not a deliberation.—
j Doubtless it was not; "for had these addref
— fes been deliberated upon, they would hav«
been published in a camp of citizen soldiers,
who would have caused the voice of th<
p s conllitution to be heard. If the soldiers have
not read them, they do not speak the sen
timents of the army. The constitution pro
v hibits addresses in the collective nime oi tr
I armed body, and will a general be permitted t
to violate it ? The more services yinir ge
nerals and soldiers have rendered tothe coun-
I try, the more you ought to guard against
I all attempts upon the constitution. In a
; rising republic, do not permit the troops to
aft as if they had conquered only forthem
felves, unless you would fee, as once was
the cafe in the Roman Empire, your sol
diers *>b»y only "their generals, and never
their country. It has been attempted to
persuade the conquerors of Italy that a fyf
terrT of proscription exists against them.—
Proscribe them! who would dare to attempt
it ? who ,would define it ? What French
man here daes not palpitate upon the revi
val of their heroic aftiom, which command
the gratitude of their' country, and cover
with a veil of glory the dreadful events which
have tarnished the revolution ? They were
citizeni before they were soldiers—they must
! cea-fe to be soldiers, to become again ci
tizens.
" The Direftory inform you, that they
have put a Hop to the circulation of fchefe
addrefles, and that tl>ey have written to the
j commander in chief, deploring the circum
' fiances which had led to this violation of the
, conllitational aft. Tour cpmmiltec consider
\ it their duty to declare openly to yvu, that
anftver of the Directory bar appeared to them
unworthy of it) power, and the rank in which
the Gonflitutiou has placed that Body. N
u Consider whiit progress has been made •
in confequenee of these dangerous examples.
The spirit of foftion has already.introduced
the language, of anarchy into the camps.—
It has insinuated itfelf even into the honor
aole retreat of our wounded for
the fabrication of addrefles. It beats the
' minds of men. It proclaims every where
difiblution a if a death—Yet the Government
deeps ! Awaken, Legifktors ! watch for
' yourselves and for the people. The confti
' tutional limits are traced. Directors, Ge
' nerala, and Soldiers, bow yourfelve* before
1 the will of the people. The jlegiilative bo- ,
dy will never balance with fts duty. It is
inaccessible to fear, and will never submit to
! menace.
" Your committee will not humble itfelf
in replying to the calumnies propagated by
' your enemies. A legifltive body which is
not accufeable, ought not to jultify itfelf.
! By its lifts it must be judged—We (hall
1 speak the truth to the Directory—We fiiall
5 speak the truth to the people.
: " The insolence of pritfts and emigrants
is denounced to you. As to thepriefts, is 'not
their proscription in a mass to be regretted?
" Liberty of conscience, liberty of worship,
andfubmifiion to the laws—such aretheprin
r maintained by all philosophers—such
e are the principles eonfeerafed by the confti-
tution and the laws in opposition to the
claims of a religion which wished to be ex- •
J clufively established. As to the emigrants,
d who favors them ? Do not the laws refpeft
■ ing the emigrants exist* Do they not place
1" in the hands of the Direftory the molt aft
'•»«> the moll powerful, and the mo ft arbi
-1 trary means' f Tin return of noted emigrant*
e , is anounced. The ho life in as.
femble is even mentioned j but What then is
■ the doty of the police! Why
ments the traffic of whiah is publickly repor
ted? It belongs to us to require from the
Direftory an account of these monstrous a
" buses.
S " The Direftory tell you that aflaffinati
ons are committed, and that partiality is dif
° played by the Tribunals. It is necefifary to
inform them, that they have overstepped
thc!r duty, ande do them service in rccal
'l ifng them to it. It is true that blood flows
'• iu fevcral departments; but there are laws
S against afTaiiination, and the Direftory ought
w to execute them. If there be partiality in
, n the Tribunals, there is a law to'punifh them,
13 and the Direftory ought to denounce the
t3 guilty. In all cases, erimes cannot make
' c us despair of juftiee, and we ought te de
'» mand of the Direftory an account of the
Q measures they have taken to repress the
crimes of which they complain. We do not
I, understand the proteftion they claim for the
it purchasers of National property. Their
10 persons and the : r property are under the
re fafeguard'of the Constitution, and you have
c- given a proof of your refpeft for. them by
h yoru resolution refpefting the Prefbyteres.
:y " The Direftory inform you, that there
fe are Journals which breathe only murder, and
d the return of .Royalty. It is certain that
al the excifesof a rnultitnde of Pamphlets and
:o Journals have no power of reposing his mind
ie amidst an ocean of extravagant and faftions
jf opinions: but you have manifefted your de
re fire for repressing this abuse; and there, is on
st ly required a law which shall prtvent it,
rs without injuring the rights of Citizens : all
r- the elements of this law are ready, and the
:d Committee you named for preparing it will
s, fooil make their Report,
n- " The deficiency in the public revenue, it
iu is added, deprives our armies of their pay
ie We will not deny, that negligence on she
'ie part of the receivers, and the want of order
in and ceconomy have thrown our finalises into
el disorder; but have the armies anvrta'onto
: ? reproaeh the Legislative Body? At what
ie period, at what epoch, have you refufed
o- their funds? Your resolutions on this lub
fe jest have always been voted with urgence.
he It is-then in vain that the unfortunate rtnti
ey cr divides with them bis dread? Have,
:t- then, the forced the afEgnats, the
is Mandats, the in the conquered
>n- countries the National Estates, Ween found
ey infufiicient? Let us rather fay, that our re
en sources, being diftribnted through such a
of variety of channels, have been exhausted:
if- but that if thsy had been more prudently
rre employed the li'oft important part of the
et public service would not be in such a deplc
— rable state.
ef- •" Let the finances, then, alone occupy
ve all your solicitude. I know that every day
is, your attention is taken tip with this fubjeft.
he But the time is arrived when you must
IV* regard the prejudices against direS contribu
:n- tions. Peace, peace ! This is theanenhs of
ro- extricating U9 from ourembarraffment. Hew
tn very criminal wOuld those be who would> to place it dill at r. diftancc !—Doub 1
i 1 r>! there are men who flill preserve the cr
iifffal hope of overturning the republic.-
, Traitors exist, we are told—why are the
not dete&ed- There are cortfpirators—wh
are they not puniflied ? We have laws—
, why are they not executed ' —No ! the dc
fenders of the country will never be mad
to bellevp, that the legislative body oppoft
a peace ! Who has appeared more delirou
than otirfelves so obtain it ? History wi!
examine whether tlie events which have late
ly talcen place in Italy have not contribute!
to retard the conclusion of it; but can Franc
■ blame its generals for paying liberty to mil
lions bf m;n ?—And, when they have gain
ed their liberty, can France refufe to then
its frienilhip and its alliance ? Your com
mittee, however, does not with to prdpof<
that you should approve, or even be silent 01
those events.
" The dire&ory has gone beyond it!
powers. If war has been declared agaihil
v the Italian states, who bad the right to de
elare it without your consent !—lf treaties
ofvcommerce or subsidies have been made,
who could make them without yoyr appro
-1 bation ? The states of Italy cannot be the
allies of France without a decree from you.
* Their government will be equivocal, theit
liberty without support, as long as the trea
ties flnll not have-been approved by iis.
" Fears have been entertained that the
dire&ory accutd, and that the le
gislative body would be attacked. The le
gislative body has a right to accuse the di
accusation, it would, without fear, without
hefitstion, aecufe them. But an attack on
' the legislative body! who would make it ?
A few brigands ?—the recolleftion of their
defeats will serve them a3 a lesson. The
fbldiers ?—never will they be seen marching
under the colours of affafiing. Th* dire&o
ry ! —fuch an idea cannot occupy our atten
tion for a moment ; its own interest is in op
position to it.
• " To conclude—ybu will find, in" your
own courage and yeur own prndence, ex
traordinary resources."
[Here Thibaodeau implored the members
pf the government to ad\ in union and con
cord.-—He invited the veprcfentafives and
direftors to be upon their guard againfl the
. exaggerations of parties, who fought dnly
animofities, that they might
be hur-ied to a catastrophe which would de
u ftroy them all.]
** In examining," he added, " this mes
sage of the dtreftory, its exaggerations, and
the bitterness of its style, we have avoided
giving new aliment to the factions. Legis
lators ought not to be guided by paflion. In
vain our common enemies meditate the ruin
of the republic. The republic is deeply
* rooted ;it has ripened in the midst of storms
and it belongs not alone to the present gene
ration. The new dangers which threaten
it, serve only to display once more its
strength. Each power shall return to its
proper limits ; and if some men have wifbed
to overstep them, they fliall be recalled', and
confined to their proper station. .
cenfnre to-day, but whom we must always
admire,, believe that liberty is here defended
by your friends. The legislature is the ci
tadel of the constitution. lis your duty to
die for it, and you are about to besiege if.
X.et its voice be always heard among you ;
ard when you return to your fire fides, you
will find it cemented by your blood and co
vered with your triumphs."
Thibaudeau concluded by presenting the
plan of two resolutions.
The Ift declared. " That all conspiracies
or crimes against the constitution, the legisla
tive body, and the diredWy, came under the
jurifditlion of the criminal tribunal of the
place where the legislature fits ; that all per
i sons accused (hould be denounced at the of
ficfi of the public accuser, but that they
should hav« the power of appealing from
that tribunal ; and in this cafe they {hould
' be carried before a court pointed out by the
tribunal of cassation." The 2d enafts, that
every deliberation or common wish expressed
by the'armed force, although-nothing follow
upon it, except the cases determined by
law, shall be a deleft. To fend aadreffes
from one body of troops to.another, «r to
the civil authorities, is an aft of sedition.
The plan then points out the penalties to be
Inflifted on the inftigajtors, movers, or sub
scribers .of addrefies, according to the enor- ,
mity of the cafe, and the different powers
against which thtf^fhall be direfted. 1
" The gradation of offence is, firft,, a- '
gainst the direftory, then the legislative bo- |
dy, and next the law and constitution." f
Ordered to be printed to the number of t
fix copies to each member. c
MeJJage of the Executive Diredory to the 1
Council of Five Hundred, of the 2 d Ther- ( -
midor (20th August.) i
" Citizens Rcprefentatives, t
" The Executive Direftory has proceed- '
«d to the distribution of the funds afligned
for the the service of the firft decade of p
Fruftidor. The Angular and uncommon c
eircumftanceß in which they are placed o- fl
blige them to lay before you the results of
this distribution, which will convince you of (!
the indifpenfible necessity of rendering the w
means difpofeable, which are requisite to pre- y
♦eot the-impending disasters. P
Dedufting 63,888>967 livres and 75 cen- d
times, which remain to be paid on warrants £
alyeady issued for urgent services, and pay- |„
men ts become due, the most pressing demands si
amount to 21,002,790 livres 54 cts. •
" This sum consists of the following ar- *'
tides: £. C.
To pay for the troops 3,128,309 78 f C
Tofuftenance 3,944,916 95
To pensions and dividends 900,000 o th
To ccmftitutional salaries 986,943 83 th
To salaries and pensions 5,040,990 49
To sundries 7,0ei,629 29
" The way sand, means, as dated by the
national treasury, present at firft fight, in
ftend of difpofeable /unds, a deficit of m
3,793,681 livres, which it would be necaff- • en
ute- ary t'o carfcr previous to aifigning any sums
cri- of money fervice of the different de-
.parfnaents. Jt Ins been calculated, that the
!iey above deficit may in a great measure be co
why J vered by the presumptive funds calculated
'B | as existing in the public chests of the de
de- . partments, and that by adding to the'funds
lade aftually existing in the public treasury, those
oses whiph appear mnft difpofeable, the fuppo
•ous fit ion might be admitted, that a balance of
will about 800,000 livres might remain for the
ate- service of the decade, independently of such
ited sums as must unavoidably be paid at Paris
nee on the arrears of the preceding decade,
nil* <c A calculation has afterwards been form
lin- ed-os those articles of expence, which is in
icm difpenfibly neceflary to meet far the exe
>m- cution of the laws as well as for the main
ofe tenance of the public service. Under these
on heads have been classed the pay and. fufte- ;
nance of the land and naval forces, dividends '
its and penfion#, the coriftitntfonal indem'mfica
inft tion of the legislative body ; 63,703 lir. 14
de- 1 'sous, for the payment of bills of exchange, t
ties accepted by the national treasury, and '
de, 1 so,oco livres for the most urgent expence ;
ro- ■ to be made at Paris for the home depart- 1
the | raent; * - ■ . j
lu. | " These objects amount to a film total of j
leir ; 6,850,729 87 centimes,
ea- "lo find this sum, it has been fupppfed '
' that the national treasury can furni/h 850, | '
ihe 9291. 87c.St£lually in its pofftffion ; that :
le- it is to receive in the courfs of the decade <
le- one million, and that the effeftive receipts jn j 1
di- the departments during the last decade must : =
for be supposed to amount to seven millions.— t
>ut This calculation is raoft finely exaggerat- ]
on ed ; it violates all proportion, and exceeds
all probability, and the fuhfifting circumftan
eir ces wauld alone authorise its admission ; (
he and yet, citizens representative% you cannot f
ng , but perceive, that this is tlve chief resource r
:o- for meeting the most urgent and indifponfi- e
;n- ble expence. t
p- "To this mefTage are annexed the copy
of a letter from the national treasury, dated
ur the Ift Fruftidor (August 17) proving the | f
x- neeeffity of the repartition for .this decade I c
being made according to a presumptive cfti- { /
'rs mate of the revenue, the ftatemejjt of ways f
n- and means for the firft decade of Fruftidor,
id transmitted by the national treasury, and a- v
he nother of the divi'fions and f
ly containinga detailed accountof the demands,
ht founded on the registers of the different I
e- commissaries. e
" The direftory refer to these authentic b
f- paper* all those who shall presume to quef- °j
id tion the truth of the results they offer. Who 11
;d contradifts the following fafts, is either J
f- grossly mistaken, citizens reprefentativei, or
'n endeavors to deceive you : /
ill "*• The national treasury does not poffrfs one
| million disposable funds for this prcfent decade.
' ."1. In order to find the above ftatedfum it it
indifpeufably neceflary to suppose, that the r«-
e " ceipts in the departments amount to 7,000,000, *
'1 anil that moreover the national treasury it to receive
ts one million at Paris,
t , " 3 rhit supposition is exaggerated, but must
, be admitted.
* "4. The laws of the zid Vendfmaire and 9th 01
d Thrrmidor, enaft, that the pay and fuflinance of ' a
the troops shall Repaid in preference to every other pi
\ demand. The aggregate ium. of these two arti- m
s %:les of expence amount to 7,073,116 livres, 7; 1;
, centimes.
" The law of the 15th Vendimaire aflign# to S'
- the Oockholders a sixth of the taxe? j the th
a trofnrv demands under this head 90*71,000 livres or
"6 Thelaw. which fix»*thc expence of the legif jj,
, lativebody, ordains, that the cnftitutionsl ndcm
' nifications of its members (hall be paid every V'
11 month. ft
" 7. The erf-fremcnts contracted by the nation-, he
al treasury, with refpeil to accepted bills of ex
e change, demand the sum of 63,703 livres, 14 cen- v .
time*. I ~ |
11 8. The fafetyof Pari*, the imperious force of
s the supreme law, tlein nds, that the minister 01 OL '
• the interior he able to difpofeof 50,003 livres. wi
e " 9. These articles sbforb all the funds, which tal
e nay be considered as difpofeahle.
" 10. Except the fa'aries of the legislative body,
there remains no money to djfcliarge all other con
ftitutionaland otherfalaries and pensions, nor are MI
any funds left for the hospitals, the repair of the
1 dikes, roads, canals, &e. jr,
| " 11. The dir-flory cannot cxitend its diHribu- 0 f
tion to any sum exceeding the above amount; and
it is ro the want of difpofeable funds that ought
' to be imputed the failure of all the oth r branches I"!
1 of the public service, and the danger with which de:
. they are threatened.
" 14. If the national treasury is desired, by t j )£
means of negotiations, to augment the resources, ,
1 it is obliged* to return iu answer, that it does not
1 poffifs any thing which may serve for that pur
po(».
" 13. The pay of the army is confid:fably m
arrcar. This is a certain and acknowledged faft.
" 14. The fiitifTe furtenance of the troops is
compromised.
"1J No fune's remain to be tlifpofed of for the for
relief of the hofpinl. 'I he executive <'ir;<Sory
can perceive no pcflibje resource that may be aj pli
cd to assist them The deciftons which it is era
bled to make with refer® to the urgency of the
payments, make ro alteration in the deplorablefi
tuation in which they are placed '1 he dire&ory
considered itfelf bound to lay before you these Q y
ftatemcnts. It has fulfilled that duty ; but it does
not apprehend, that this exposition can thake the
courage and perseverance of the friend* of the re
public. It en the contrary finds a powerful motive
in the true piflnre which it has drawn to hope,
that your deliberations on the finances will render Brie
those resources effective wbich can be bi ought into g
a&ion. These resources possess the great a*2van- e,
tageof being adequate to the re-eUsblilhment of ® .
pnblie credit, and of proving that France is fully " r, i
capable of maintaining ordtr in the interior, and Schr
of combating her forsigri enemi»s. But these re
sources, citizens directors, are as if they never ex
iled, since the laws which are neceflary to r nder
them produ&ive are not enaded. Had those
which regulate the direfl c»ntribiuions of the sth
yca r been fooncr palled, ten millions would moil
probably have been received, which remain still C
due, and the power of difpofingof thc.-n, for the j^ av
purpose ot getting the principal articles of expence, , .
would procure the means ol obtaining what may .
be neceflary for th_ inuifpenfable piy.aent of pen- Shij
flons and fajariei."
The direflory. after preffmg the necessity ef
the councils' immediately taking their con
liberation proper measures for the restoration of e
public confidenc'c ahd credit, concludes in the
following manner: " rI B
Our situation is such, citizens Dire<sVors, that
the fmallefl delay increases the danger to which
the nation is exposes?.
" Executive invites you to Schl
obtain an exadl accoum of the true itate of the
finances ; cf the neceftry wants of the public ci
tfcafury ; of the real, and by 110 means exag, v
garated procludt of the means which can yet be .
madeule of, and of the resources which can be
employed. You \vill find in the result of your S!
urns examination, proofs of the trutTi to Wln'ich t} l6
de- direftory lias calW your attention in all j rs
the The csiftioj? Tricar's 3>- e infuUcient ;
co- w hich new laws have it in their pn<v*rtn
ited P ro^uce ' will he .id'rqutti* to lrieet ol] om-ex-'
* pences, and the moment rf bringing them into
" e " a&ion is arrived:
(Signed) " CAftMrtT, p rcfi
lose " 1. V ,G A UDE, 8, Q."
P (> - . -
\be By this lay's A fail.
u'ch
aris BOSTON, October 23.
THE LAUNCH—
rm- A -'AnVIPV-y-r SPECT. VJ.r; i
in- On Saturday last, at fifteen minutes pad
•xe- M. the frigate Constitution was launch
u'n- ed into the adjacent element, on wjuch (he
lefe 1 novv rides an elegant and superb fpeeimen
fte- : °f American naval archite&tire, combining
ids ; the unity of wisdom, strength and beauty!
lea- On a fignalbeing given from ,'dn board, her
14 ordnance, on shore, announced to the neigh
ge, bonring country that the
,nd I CONSTITUTION WAS SECURE.
nee ;
irt- Extra,l of a Utter from Billoa, to John
i Bvll'eley and Sons, of Lisbon, dated 'Auv. !
lofj 22. '97- _ |
" The French continue their depredati- 1
fed mis on this coast against the Americans,
-o, J having captured capt. Alexander Rofs, from
lat ! Marblehead, eonfigned to us, last Saturday |
ide h*ir, and carried to Bayontie,where I
1 we expe£l they will soon condemn his vessel |
utt ! and cargo, for want of a Role d'Equipage,
the fame as they havt done with others of
a t_ your government."
c! * • ~~
in- Capt. Dorr, arrived here yesterday from
,ot territory is in a state of revolutionary infur
•ce j reftion ; and that in confeqnence of the
ifi- ex'fting troubles,, the produft'ions of the
country were considerably advanced.
py
ed ! Capt. Baker, fnom Cadiz, informs, that
lie ' the United States brig, Capt. Robertfon,
de j deftinrd from our givernmtnt to the Dey of
li- j Algiers, with naval ftofe*, captured fomc
ys tirrtc since by the Spafiifh and .sent into Ca
>r, °n the express demand of the Day,
a . was giifen up'; (he was on the eve of failing
] S< for Algiers when capt. B. left Cadiz.
|s t Since the bombardment of Cadiz, capt.
N t B. informs that the two fleets have remain
ed quiet—that an intercourse was repeatedly
ic bad between the admirals by means of flags
•{- °f truce, but the particulars of the conimu
-10 nidation were not known.
%l)t oasctte7 ;
PHILADELPHIA,
Z MONDAY EVENING, Octobsr 30. <
re Extraft <jf a letter from Boston, dated 1
October 23. I
" After two trials, oursHii was got off 1
on Saturday, She had a mod beautiful 1
,f launch- Tho' the third time, the people ]
:r present were as numerous as on the two for- c
i- mer. Every countenance expressed the live- c
lied sensations ef joy. Three cheers were r
0 given by the people on (hore,!as (he toueh'd t
,1 the water, which were returned by thofc c
on board the (hip ; then as (he turned, three 1
' times three were given in the (hip, which f
were likewise returned. In half an h#ur I
from the time (he floated, the (hip was at f
.. her mooring. n
We have the Influenza in this town, 'tis
- very general—theattack is violent, but (hoit
f —I have had it, as well as a number of
our friends; whole families have been down d
with it I have not heard of its being fa- 1,
1 tal to any." ]
' Died] —Yesterday, Mr. Thomas Lea- v
t ming, of this city. £
Far is, son of Mr. John Faris, of the state ct.
■ of Delaware. . n
, Ingles, of the Northern Liberties. His Hi
1 death was occasioned by a fall from a tree, m
the sth of September last, after a fevereill- w
ness of the flux, Captain Wilj-iam. Cox, w
fearce if years of .'ge, a native of this city, tu
POST OFFICE. an
t Philadelphia, 08. 27, 1797. J'
03* Letters for the British Packet, 001
for Falmouth, - will be received at this or '
(Office until Tuefclay, the 31ft inft. at
12 o'clock, noon.—N. B. The inland
Postage to New-York must be paid.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. m 1
em,
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
caf
ARRIVED. DAYS hoi
Brig Morning Star, McCafky, Wilming. D. inft
Schr. Antelope, Chadwick, N. Caro. 10 <ivh
Sloop Rainbow, M'Nutt, Truro, N. S. 20 ant
Brig Sally, Hayes, Havanna, wh
Schr. Kitty, Green Cape Francois 23 oft,
Maria, Flinn Havanna 11 the
Amity, Cufljing, do 21 Ar
Cornivallis, Butler, Petit Guat'c ,
Ruby, Macey, Nantucket fro,
T*
Capt. Flinn of th? fchr. Maria, left at tkc ult.
Havanna the following yeffel# belonging (o •wei
this port. rett
Ship Active, Perry, to foil in 8 days. wa
Mary, Patton, 12 t° t
Rebecca, M'Keever 3 fevt
Superb, Boyd, for Hamburgh. 29 1
Snow Clopatra, Christie—sold.
Brig Lavinia, Carfpn, io days detc
Fame, Knox, 2 „«/
Liberry, Lillibridge, 2
Gratitude,. Clifton, 10"
Schr. Dick, Lillibridge, 4
Heftor, Budden. J"' l
Sl6op Mary, Smith, failed 3 days before . p
Ship Huldah, Warner, had arrived from 60 c
this port.
Ship Eagle, Ivickpatriek, 13 week sfrom | j
t'if LonJondeny, arrrive lat New-Castle, with
220 paffengcrs, on Saturday lalh
■rto 0:1 Fr ' l,ta J at'NiW'.rtrh in 25
ex- ' !r ' " s f rr ' m '&>!***<*) the Brit'fbfch/oner Chance
into °f l ogum, captain Thojans, ivho, about 12
days ago, captured the American Jlhooner Isa-
cShtam M/rclr, from Surinam, bound to
Philadelphia, under fsfpicinn of having Dutch
~ property. Capt. Mercer and t'.ree of his
men, arrived at Netv- York in the Chance.
New Tori QSoler 28.
ARRIVED. DAYS
Brig Venus, Bourdeaux, 60
Schr. Return, Sheffield Havannah, 25
Louisa, Wheeler, N. Providence 20
''j l " Capr. Wheeler was chafetj off the Hook
" le yelterday by a privateer of 8 guns, but out
? en failed her—of what nation could not tell.
"'S Brig Dispatch, TSfoble, fiom this -port
ty- bound for Jamaica, wnscapti|rfd byaljrensh
' ,er privateer, of 16 guns, after being 3 days
> out, and releaftd; afterwards taken by a 2
gunboat, and at last retaken by the British
ftiip Alliance, and carried into C. N. Mole.
The Bacchus, George, from Philadtl
' , phia to Lqndon, is taken 3nd carried into
"g- ' Niintz.
. j Arrived &hr. Return, Sheffield, 25 days
't'- from Havannah, who informs us that no
ns > vefftls had been carried in there for three
>m weeks, Ldf t at the Havannah a number of
a y ! American veflsla, among which are the fol
■rc ; lowing, viz.
•k* | s b;p Circumnavigator, Loring, of Boston
' e ' ! . _ Diana,- , 1 " New-York
0 Bi;ig Little George, Congdon, do.
Zelucca, Dorgan, do.
Schr. Corpora! Trim, Wright, do.
'7 1 Americanus, Sturges, Fairfield
' e Oftober 17, spoke a Barque belonging to
| r_ Hudfori, from Faulkland Iflairds, out three
( c months hound here, lat. 37, long. 73 30.
• lc o<3. 27, spoke brigMarif, capt Cook,
of and from New-York, lat. 38, 2, long.
72, 30. On Tuesday morning last, on
at south end of Long Island, near Fair-fland
n , infetj law a large vessel on (hore without a
ny masts Handing—capt. Cook supposes foe
ne must have gone ashore the last heavy gale.—
a " Tuesday night, fell in with a schooner
7> b®und to New-York, having a signal for
pilot flying—the above schooner came to
with him about 6 leagues E. by S. off the
't- hook—but in the night parted the cables
n " and was drove to sea.
'y Brig Venus, 60 days from Bourdeaux.
August 29 —Lat. 43 23, long. 8 43 W.
a " was spoke by a French luggerof 12 guns—
after detaining us an hour (he'left us with
7 polite treatment. Sept. 4 —Lat. 44 28,
was brought to by an Engli(h frigate, de
tained about an hour, and treated with ci
vility. Sept. N iß—Lat. 44 15, long. 47
55' spoke a Danish brig from Potomac—
could not understand whither bound. Sept.
29 —Lat. 44 3, long. 49 50, spoke the
fchr. Catharine, J. Cox, master, from Boftop
bound to Rotterdam—had carried away his
ff main boom. October s—Lat.5 —Lat. 43 20,
il long. 55 20, spoke the febr. Adventure,
e 10 days out from Boston, bound to Bour
r- deaux, John Bordman, master. Oftober
:- 9 —spoke the brig Trial of Salem, »Dean,
e master, 7 days out, bound to Bilboa. Oc
d tober 18—spoke a fchr. from Plymouth, 2
e days out, bound to Guadaloupe. Oftober
e 21 Lat. 38, at 2 P. M. spoke a brig
h from Baltimore—blowing frefh could not
r learn whither bound. At 7in the evening
t fpeke a (hip from New York, came out the
night before under close reefed topsails. 1
s
t Boston, 08. 23. 1
F Arrivedfhip Otter, Dorr, Canton, 6m. 22 i
il days. Sailed in co. with the Grand Turk, capt. ;
- Magee,for Boflcn. While at the Sandwich I
I/lends, on his outward boundpajf ge,faw <
capt■ Barber, of the F.nglfh brig Arthur, whose {
- vessel had leen wrecked . but cargo fnved Capt. 1
B- informed, that on the N. IV. coajl, he fell f
■ in with the fnew Sea-Otter, late capt. Hill, t
' commanded by his mate, a Mr. Bowles, from a
■ whom he learnt, that capt. H*i Mr. Elliot (I
1 the super-cargo, and Mr. William Dagget, v
Reward, were, when on fljore, surprised by the v
natives, and inhumanely butchered. The crfw b
1 of the snow, on observing the assault, immediately
went on shore, to attempt their rescue ; but M
were too late, the cam bats having dtfpatched the
two latter, and dragged them away ; the Crew
brought off capt- Hill ; but hefurvived only
an hour. Capt. Dorr, !ofl His fleward, (Mr,
Joseph Thomas, of Boflon) on the N. IV.
coajl, by the canibdls ; and had one of his sail
ors dangeroujly mounded. Left at the Sand
wich Island:, brig Susan, Trotter, from Pro
vidence, bound on a caq/ling trade.
BALTIMORE Oflober 2 6
Tuesday arrived brig Betsey, James Art,
mafler, who was captured on the <sth of Sept
ember, on hispaffage from K'tngflon to Phila
delphia, by a French privateer Jloop, within the
capes of Delaware, to the wejlward of the light
house, andfentfor Guadaloupe ; but on the 15th
infiant fell in with cifloop bound to New London
who affifled captain Art in retaking his brig,
andfuppHed him with proviHons, for want of
which he was in affual diflrefs. The captain
of the Jloop took charge of four of the pirates ; ~
the refl, a prize mafler and three men, captain
Art brought into this port.
Schooner Betsey• Lleyd, All son, 29 days
from Leognne. Left no . merican vessels.
Two days after leaving Leogane, cm the 27 th
ult. was captured by two French barges, whs j
were condußing hi.v to Petit Trflu, but was A
retaken the fame night by an Engfifh Jloop of 1
war, who inhumanely Jired a full broadside in- er; i
to the schooner, broke open all the letters, kept P' !
several, and permitted her to proceed. On the a "
29the was again taken by two other barges, r<) ,
who sent her into Jean Rebel, wherefhe was get
detained three days, (ind permitted her to proceed
oh her voyge. at t
■
Red Port Wine. 7 N<
Just arrived, bjr the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
. Oporto, ' f a „
Red Port Wine in pipcs,hhds.ancl quarter cafcs p al
60 cwt. Cork, for /ale by I t!l(
Philips, Cramond, & Cb. for
Juljr Jt. 5
Prom thi Farmer's Weekly Museum
"" A LOVE DITTY,
12 Humbly attempted in the fullime manner of Am
;f"~ p"osf Philips.
to IWrijr me paper, pen and ink ;
r Let m ? Witt, then let me think.
|' e!1 me when and how and where
Strays Keturah buxom fair!
}"• fjie gone to milk her cow ?
1 tii me where, and tell me how.
* s Is Hie gone to feed her hen ?
° Tell me how, and tell me when.
■5 ' me, ease my cure,
!0 me how and when and where,
'k Hark, I hear her, magick feene !
I luck the full grown kidney bean ;
Bean To plump and grown so well,
rt You'd think it big enough to (hell.
See her croud her apron full,
t'S Apron of the choicclt wool ;
2 Wool, that never grew on goat,
'■> Wool, that never grew on -(hote.
Now (he tPi'ps it o'er the fields,
1- Kicking up her gambol heels.
° Now (he hides her rosy face,
Now (he (hows a form of grace.
' While.l gaze, my bleod grows warm,
° Foams, like ocean in a (Lrm
e Dear Keturah, I exclaim,
>■ l">y thy bright poetic name,
1 !By tho,e locKs, thatcleck thy pate,
Ky.thofe hps, that kiA, and prate ;
" ]'y thy apron form'd of woo!,
Ev those beans, that (luff it full,
Check thy fcampcr, cease to fly,
or Collinet flamt dfe>
d COLLINET.
FROM A LONDON PAPER.
e ' -
Matrimony. ihe author of an inquiry
' concerning political justice having lately
taiien to himielf a wife, it may be proper to
j rcier to a few of his former observations on
1 th . e f "bje& of matrimony. The reference
will (how, that however defiroua the fptou
« lative philosophers of the present day may
be to reduce their theories to praftice in the
r affairs of government, they are too wife to
r trouble themselves with the affectation of
" conliftency between their principles and ac
c tions in their individual concerns.
« "1 he fubjeft of cohabitation is particu
larly interfiling, as it includes in it the sub
:• jest of marriage. Tt is not only an evil,
• as it cuecks the independent progress of the
mind; butas it:sa!fo inconsistent withtheim
h perfedtions and properties of man. It is
, absurd to expeft that the inclinations and
wiihes of two human beings (hould coincide
- through any longperiqd of time. To oblige
7 them to aft and to live together is to sub
- jedt them to some inevitable portion of
thwarting, bickering and unhappinefs. This
e cannot be otherwise, so long as man ha»
i failed to reach the standard of perfection.
s The supposition that I must a compan
, ion for life is the result of a complication
, of vices : it js the di&ate of cowardice,
and not of fortitude ; it flows from the de
r fire cf being loved and elleemed for forae
, thing that is not desert."
Mr. Godwin, after Tome observations on
the manner ia which matrimony is contraft
r ed, fays, that « the institution of it is a fyf
l tem of fraud : it is Jaw, and the worfl of
t all laws : it is an affair of property, and the
* w orfi of all properties. So long as two hu
r man beings are forbidden, by poftive fnlii
tutioß, to follow the didtates of their own
mi.idi prejudice is alive and vigorous. So
long as I seek to engross one woman to my
felf,' and to prohibit my neighbour from
. proving his superior deserts and reaping the
' fruits of it, lam guilty of tie mid oliou*
' of all monopolies. Ovtr this imag nary
prize men watch with p.rpet lal jealousy ;
»nd_ one man frill find his detires, and his ca
pacity to circumvent, as much excited, a«
the other is excited to traverse his proje&s,
and frustrate his hopes. As long'as this
state of society continues, philanthropy
will be checked and crossed in a thousand
ways, and jhe (till augmenting dream of a
buse will continue to flow."
N. B. Godwin is one of the. oracles of
modern patriots.
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR SALE,
At his No. tj, Great Doclc-ftreet,
250 bales of Bengal Goods
Containing Bafras
Coifes
Gurrahr
.Moragugungus
Tookery
% Check and Strips
Handkerchief
I II boxes Irifii Linens
I do. Oiap~rs
7 do. Um'r>re las
lo canifcers Java Sugar
78 bags black Pepper
I*6 do. tail India Ginger
100 calk« roll Brimstone
7c pipes Madeira Wine
5 7 calks Gin
A quantity oi fhcathing Copper and Naih,
Ovflobcr 30. 3a\V3w
1 I_*
'Jo be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the 13th dny.of Novemb next,
at 11 o'clock in the forenoon, at thelatedwel
ling plsntaiion cf ALEXANDtR Porter,Efq.
dcceafed, in tie Hundred and County of New •
Caftie,
All the Stock of the said Farm,
Cpntilling 0} hoifes fit for draught or fiddle,
eolis, fat cattle, milch cows, calves, fcveral
pairs of large and valtiable oxen. AKeep a d
hogs (all ihc horm d catlle and (heep, btingof
a very large and fine breed) and also carts, har
rows, pleughs, and otl cr iarmrng utenfiis, to
gether with a variety o 1 h uphold fur liture.
The conditions of S'a'e'witl be made known,
at the time and place afere aid.
Mary Porter, Admrx.
New, Castle Hundred, State of 1
D.lawarr, Oft. ic, 1797. )
A.I | erfons indebted to he estate o c fie
fai.i AJixmoer i'ort r, are requefled to make
payment, and thole \»ho l ave demands against
tile tame, to produce th«m duly au henticaten,
for ftttlement.
OA. 30,To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not lefor; d'tfpoferl of at private file J
tiie Ilrtt ot December next, at fix
o'clock, i «*rh- evening, the Merchaufs' Cof
fee Uoufc, ir» Forty ThoOfand Nine
I?ufidr«d an<l I'ntrry Nine acres rf \ LAND,
row tfx late in the Coun yof WafltengtOu, and Com
monwealth of Pennlylvania, and on the waters of
F t".h and Whceliyp Cr.tcks and Ten Mile Run.—•
Ti; f«* !.?• ds ore fertiTe and well timbered, and were
pjfenteed early in 5787,.except 3700 ac«cs oriherca
bnu:j, which utre patented in 1792. One fourth
of ourchuf< money be paid at the time i»f fa!e,
lor ihe refitlue a credit of one, two and (Wc moniht,
wi'l He given, on intrreft and good feci*tity>
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
OJj Friday, the firJt day of December, at fix
'/clock in ihe.eVeniryr, at the Merchant' Coffee
House• <in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
v3-i fhi and Eighty acrts of LAND, in the
»S«ate of New-Yoik, be ween the nartht jn bounds
of IVnnfylvania and th- Su r queHanna, now, or late,
in the totvnlhips of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery 0«»e fourth of the puttWfe
n>oncy is so be paid it the time of sale,; for.the ie»
fiiue a credit of one. twp, and three months will be
given, on irtterefl good security.
06to£le 6. 3awtS
Peale's Museum.
valsabje repoivtory of the works of Na
' ture," so well calculated to delight the mind
and eijl&rge the nnderftanding, is opened daily, as .
u'uaJ. U Oaods in an airy and healthy fituatioiii l
and free-from the epidemic that at present afflids
the city ; •' may, therefore, be frequented with '
the grMtefl Ifafcty. |
As an lludy of Mature is the :
nfrjflt rational and pleating : as a Science, the moil
fubiime anc\ inOruylive. It elevates the mind and
expands the her.rt. They
" IVbs'n A*titure % s ivcrkj can charm, ivitJj God hmfelf
il Hold convcrfe.*
Many intercfting additions have lately been
made to this Museum : ard the feathered tribe,
a variery of |he mod rare and beautiful
lubjr<SU", s now very advantageoCifly arranged. !
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of them '
calls from nature) are here drc!Tc:d in their prop r !
habit c , and; laced : .n atcitu<leH cbara&crj&ic of tlieir
refpe6lire nations Here may be fee*» the North-
American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca —a laboring Chinese, ?nd the Chjnefe Gentle*
African, and the JtCamtfchadale —
with some Natives of the Soir.h Sea !£Unds. The
immenfi variety and intcrefting diversity which
this Mttfcum offers 10 tht view, may befeenbut
cannot be described with full effadl.
£jF Price only l~4th of a dollar.
Seyt. a 8 Taw I
j'uft Received,
Prom Baravia (via Providence)
a few Boxes of Spices, conftftitfg cf
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
;fpr fate by
KILLINGS $ MANCK,
Petin-^lrcrt.
May ;o dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 3 J 9, Nigh-SiretJ.
G E O R G>: DAVIS,
■JJEiNG bßCeii for foms time pad in prcpara-
JL J tons for removing into his prelect houfj, hus
been unde: of pollpi ninguntil this day
informing the 3».ttlemen ofthe Car generally thr6'
the ll»lted StLties, that his spring importation of
law hooks is now ocrangsd and ready for lilt, on
term*that he truKs Will entUlehim to thejike pj-e
---frtcuce he has experienced for Ifcveral years past.
Catalogivs, combining the molt varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June 27. 2aw 6w
City CommiJJion-ers'' OJjict,
June 3.x, 1797.
IN purfoanre of an ordinance from the fele<3
and common councils, pafled the 2»d day of
May last, appointing the city conimi'Jioncrs,
And prcfcNbing their duties, fe(flion9th,
NOTICE IS !i£R£BY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five dittriifls,
each to be under the fuperintendancc of one of
the city commifficners, whoistobe individually
relponfible for the cleanlirfefs ef the fame, and
are as follow.
DriftrixSi No. I. From the fo'ith fide of Ce
«!ar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce fjreet, oji
rthe fupccintondence of Nathan Boys.
2. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
ihe north fide of Walnut-flrtet, under tbefuper
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. Fromthe north fide of Walnut to the south
fide under tha superintendence ol
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From ihe north fide of High-street, to the
north fulr* of Mulberry street, under th* super
intendence ( f William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-flreet, under (he super
intendence «f Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaning of High-street to be in comaon,
A stated meeting of tht city conimifßon
ers is held at tbe Old Cmirt House, in High
ftreet, every Tutfday evening at j o'clock
July fj. eoim
Stands far Draymen, ttfe.
In pur/uanc-e of an Ordinance from the Seleft and
Common Come.ls,tearing date tbe lid day of
/Iprit, 1797. providing for the appointme.U of
CitJ Co-nmifioners, <3c: Seel, the 15th.
npHE following places are fixed upqn by die
L said City Cornmiffioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-ilreet, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides. n
Saflafras, Higii.Chefnut and VV alnut-lltreets,
eastward of Front-street, on the no. th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Frout to
Third-street.
Front-street, cast fide from Vme-ftreet to
Elfiith's alley-
Front-ilrect, from opposite to Black Ilorfe al
ley to Hamilton's fiore?, east fide.
VVater-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-flrect.
■ Venn-flreet from Pine to Celar-ftreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, eaftof Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, salt ot Frost
street, south I'de.
Dock-lireet, between Walnut-street and the
Jag stone croffiogs, east fide, opposite George
° Sccond-ftwet, between SalTifris and Vine
streets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mufc-
SaVafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
Ca No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
flr Fiith-fti-eet, between Chefnut and Walnut
fU ßranch-ftreet, north fide, between Third and
Fourth streets- mw& f lm
A Literary Treat.
Juj} publifbed) handfumsty on turtiiftr
paper, price I dollar,
A new editicta of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
rHE FORESTERS, an American Tali ; being
a fequcl to the history of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln afcriesof letters ro a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
tranln&ious in America.
Th* following extract fro n the Clavis
shews the principal characters that are introduced:
John Bulk, the Kingdom of England
Hi*. Mother, thcCturchof Lngland
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick. Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His IWiftreis, the Old Cotiftituticn
His asw Wife, the National ReorefenUtion
Lord Struts the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Fro£, the Dutch Republic
J he Franks, the Trench Republic
The F»rellcrs, the Uiiited Jrtatea of AmeiTt a
Robert Lumber, New-Hainpihire
John Codline, Mallacbufetts
Humphrey Plowlhare, ConneSicut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frqg, New-York
Julius Cjefar, Kew-Jerfey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipe wood, Virginia
Hh Grandfbn, George Wafhingto-n
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, soutk Carolina
George Tnutty, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
•JjP This popular and entertaining, fatiricalhifto
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr Bel
knap. ft hasa great (hure of originality and a
boftnds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and cboca&crifes those
laHe political trapfaolions which have raufed so
much u&eafmefs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No» 50, Marke* ftjeet.
June 26. 5
LAW BOOKS,
Luted London .and Dublin Edition*.
//. is 5 P. RICE, Bookfellerr.
No. i 6, South Setosd, and No. 50, Market rtrcet,
HAVE jttft received by the Hte arrival from
Lonrton and Dublin, their fpriitg importa
tion, confining el a variety of the iattll and moil
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand,, forms the most extenfivt colledion ev
er offered for f«'e in this country. Theytheicfore
beg leave to notia-, tlut from the nature of their
conne&ionsih Duoiiu, they areerabWf to fdlfa-ifh
editions (as tiny have hitherto at the very
*loweft prices. The following are among the Ijteft
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1
Peake's Cases at Nifl Priu» ;• Ritlgcway's Kc-joru
in the time of Lord Hardwick# ;
Fra&ice id the Eeciefiaftical Courts; J3arton'«
Tr<atifcs on a Suit in £<)ui*y ; Tidd's PraAict of
the Sourt of King's Bench in PerJonal Afiions, %
part* complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
00 Uict ; nsodurn iteports, 11 vols. London edi
tion,
H. and P., Rice cacpei9 t» receive by the firft ar
rival from the 6th vol. complete of
Purn/ord and East's Reports, the 24fpart of pil
bort'sL»w of Jvidence by Loft, and a number of
new puHicitions.
Jane 16.
'the History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the preft, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by Zicha
riah Poulson, jun. No. So, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed projtsfals, antil ,t,he
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. ,awtf
The Pannerfhip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN t2l Company,
is dissolved by mutual corfent. All persons
having any demands agaioft the said House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are clefired to make pay
ment to him—By whom buiinefc will in future be
•rried on, at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street.
Avgvfl .7 - eod4w
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed thoir Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
August t. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Sbippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are xecjuefted to take notice, that
the partnership which has far some rime fub
fiiUd betwea* Mathiai Slough of Lancaftcr, and
William Geer, is now dissolved : but, not as M.
Sloagh infinaatesto the public without jufl. cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman whowilhesto.be
mors circumftintially infsrmcd of the merits of
this business, by applying*to W. Gear may have
the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe<slly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other pcrfon in the profrcution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous fapport the
public were pleased to confer on the ftrft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Mefirs. Reily, Weed and Witmpr, is determiaed
toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horft-s, and cvtry appurtenance to
render the passage tafe and commodious, inform
those wnu wilb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats' at
George Weed's, the sign of the
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancafler, Hartilbui-g,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The ■fare as hitherto
eltabliihed.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
a 61a je wiil (tart every WedutAiay from the hcufe
of.Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from theoee and arrive »t Harrifburir
dvery Saturday, so that passengers deftitied for
Lancaftcr or Philadelphia, iaay procesd o* Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaftcr, Jan. 37, 1797-
N. U. This Line of Stages starts from th«
hwife of William Ferrac, in Lancaftcr, on every
IVJ'day and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the. weftward;'and irom the hcufe of
Ms. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shlppeniburg, and returns
from thence.on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as ill its tour from Philadel
phia. niwf
Will be Lauded,
From onboard the (hip Aftive, Capt.Bt.Aiu,from •
Hamburgh,
10 hales white Kuflia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale- by
Thomas Herman Leuffer, «
North Fifth f--eet, No. ,',4.
Tun- 26, __ i
Young Hj'fon Tea.
4C chests of a superior quality— Ufo,
loo.do. of ilyfi'O,
lin port eft • p t he ffaodwf) Sims, and for sale by 1
the fubferibfr, corner of Second and I'ine
street. ]
C. Haight.
June it. eotf |
Imported ,yf the Jhip figou, j
And for !a!eby John Morton, No. it 6, South 1
Front;ftreet,
Hyson
Hyson Skin Cf EiS i
Young Hyson (
Imperial J
April 20. eotf ,
Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their customers aad the public, they
havs removed a part cf their merchandize t»
Wilmington : Also, they hive their store open in '
the city. i'.t either place their friends can be sup- ,
plied, and their orders carefully attended to
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re- ,
ceived a banilfome alTortment of articles, suitable .
to the approaching feafyn ; and *pefl to add to it ,
by other fall (hips.
Should the sickness prevail in tha central part of ,
the city, that branch of their buljpcfs will be re- ,
moved to Germantown. 1
%j' The communication by pod is open and re* ,
gular as nfual. <
Sitot. 18. thtf
TO BE SOLD VERT'CHEAP!
A Light WAGGON almost new, witha frame — '
and a pair of harness (Englift collars) has never 1
been used—price yoDotls.
A Horse 16 hands high, ft-ven years old—and a 1
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 310.
Enquire No. 3,31, Market-street
Anpift 14. diw
Far sale or ttf be let on ground
rent,
Let of Ground ;
SITUATE on.the north-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hcufc square. Thi6 lot is fifty-one feet front
onWa'.nu* street, hundred and thirteen
ftet and an half on "Fifth street ; there are at
prefeiit twofmall two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon,
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convpniejkt stores, wharf, fcc. situate on
Water-ftreel, bjet.ween Mulberry and Saflafras;'
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eall- '■
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thcle houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on th.e nprth fKle, aw) are a very iMirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa4W,of others who
tnay have for storage of This
property v&Ute' fold on very reafoesbl.c
for tafh. For further information .apply to the j
printer.
July jr. ■ m&wff
TO" B E 8 Q L D;
j4nd pojfjfton riven immediately,
A LARGE two story >rick House, handforaely
fimattd in Princeton. Tbtte arc four rooius
and a large entry on each iloor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. J here is a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is n ew > 44 feet Jong, with
flails in the two stables for 07 horfe9. The heal
thiaefs and plea r antotfs ot its situation, and thf
number ©f genteel and agreeable families in -and
near the town, render it a defirabte retr'ecat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of
theflables,makeit ( eyery wayfuitabK for a tavern,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
ftaad. Inqnirc on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 25. 1') —diwzawsf
City of Wafhingtom.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement rif the Fedetui City. i
A magnificent dwelling-boufc 30,000 dollars,
& cash 30,000, ire 50,000
1 ditto j 1,000 A cast 15,000 40*000
x ditto 15,000 81 cafli 15,000 30,000
x ditto 10, poo & caGi 10,000 ao,o»>o
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 10,600
x cat!* prize of ro,ooo
* do. s<,oooeach,are - 10,009
x« do. 1,000 - - xo,ooc
10 do. 500 • - 10,000
00 do. xoo - * 10,000
300 do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 15 - - 10,000
X,OOG do. 20 ' 10,000
15*000 do. xo - F5«,ooo
16,7,19 Prizes.
jj,t 61 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour rhofewho nay take a quan
tity ol Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
hut shi:
And appravednotes, fecn»iag payaient in either
or pri3e«, in ten days after drawing, will
he received foi acynumber not Lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecjmcn of
the private buildings to be ert Aed in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful defigas are already
(eleiled for the entire fronts on two of the public
fijuares j from these drawingi-it ispropofed toeteiS
twocentreand "ourcorwer buildings.as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey thein,
when co»nlcte, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchemc for "the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
lie made to defray the ncccffary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the fpplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be erefled within the city of Walhington.
Thy real fecuritieseiven for the payment of the
Pri2es, ire «eld by,tFe President and two Dired
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
□lore than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
»§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colsm-
Imi ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
I Oilman, Boftnn : of John Hepkin-, Richmond ;
Pand of RicWd WUls, Cooler', Ferry.
| HI wf
This Day Publilhed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, .ornerof
Second and Chsfnut streets,
' Price 3of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents j
i% No. V and VI of n
" The History of the United Stages for e
the year 1796," d
In whien the ch irgk of sfeculatiom ajrainft t
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, f
Late SsCKtTARY of the Trlasurv, is FULLY j
REiUTED. 4
ir RITT F. N BY' HIMSELF. *
This publication prcjfats a qonc-ileflatement n
of the bnfe means by the TacobinsQf the j
United States to atyerfe the charadcrs df rhofe
pt?rfons who are con uttered as hoflile to their dlfpr- p
ganizing ichemes. It aifo contains the cor- r
refpondence between Mr.. Hamilton and Mefirs. /<
Monroe, Muhlcnburgli and on thej'ub- p
je<Sk of the documents aforefaid, and a Afrits of let-
ters fron* James Reynolds and his wi(e to Mr.Ha- /,
milton, proving beyond the poflibilif.y of a doubt, a
that the conncclion between him and y
was the cefult of a daring eonXpiia<iy the part t ,
of the latter and his associates to extort money. )
jgp A difpount of one third from tilie retail price .
will be made in favor ct wholefate purchafrrs, for c
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Yovno. a
Ausull 35. 1
No. ;88. - \
DiflriS of Pennfyhania, to unit : ,
(L s ) R K REMLMBi.RED, that on the ,
' JJ twenty futh day of July, in the twen- i i
ty second year of the independence of the United .
States of Arteries, Jons Fcnno, c.r che said dif- t
tritft ,hath depofitcd in this office the title of a bock, '
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, ia the <
wfrds following, to wit <
" Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The Iliflory of the Unit-
"ed States for the year 1796,"in which thf charge j
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, fate ,
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written byhimfelf"
In conformity to the ail of the Congrcfs of the
Ueited States, entitulcd, " An a<sl for thaencour
agement of learning, by securing tint copies ol
maps, charts and books to the authors propri
etors of such copies, during h« time? thereija men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
C*erk of the Dijiriti *f Penrtfylvanui.
Jifly 37. W4W
An elegant House in Arch Street. ,
TO be let and entered on immediately a larg«
and eleiant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms 1
and one dining room—the largaft is 31 feet by ;
16 —and Iwo are fp by rolling doors
as to make but one. Affa, five bed rooms, be- '
ftde6 3 in thf parret, well flnithed for
There are stables and a coach house, with evry '
cpßvenience.for a family. Enquire at flo. 29, I
in North Seventh ftrecf, or at No. aiß, Arch
Strejsti
Aug. I£. HH'ilH'.
WiiliaiTi Blacjcburn,
LOTTERT snv BROKER'S 9FFJCI
No. 64 south Second-P.reet.
TICKETS in the Canai Lottery, No. U, wtich
cominanced.drawingthe 19th May, FUR.
SALE. Thp price of tickets will rife in .propor-,
tion as the driwipg particularly 0:1 ae-'
count ol tbfi five ferft drawn tickets, prwe* of
four thousand dollars each, 011 the last day ot
drawing.
C'hec\ Books kept for examination and reg»(W |
ing, in the Canal, No. a, City of W&ftiington, No.
a, and Patqrfon Lottarits.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuy'ikil.l bridge and
Perk'om.en Bridge latteries, which will begin:
drawing in the couijfejtf the fursiW'-
The business of a Broker ia all kinds of Stocky
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c.
utmost attention.
June 1 tuAf |
Erlkine's Vievf of the War.
* i
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Soich Second street,
[Price ji Cents J
A View of the Cau/es and Covfequen
ces of the present War with Francs, j
By the Honorable Thomas Er3lC;Ne.
May 15 , } j
STATE TRIALS, j
Sold b YV-Yodng, Bookfelier,.No. 51, Soutli Sc
cond-ftreer,
The Pennsylvania State Trials, j
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and
al of FrancisHopkinfon, Judge of tbe Court of
admiralty, and John Kicholfon, Contplroiler Gen
eral—ln one large gvo. vol. Price, in boasds, 3
dollars.
W. Yooxo has for sale, a general afCortjnentof,
Book«. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack-'
ege, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
axpwted. July y.— *
For Sale,
That mill known place, called FjHDCGRifT's:
F f R R y,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York port road,J
containing 74 acres and 94 perclie*. Upon the
prcmifes are a large two Ilory stone house occu
pied asatvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a gt>r.d threfhiifcp
[ floor, and lomeloui buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant situation fora gentle-:
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny toitsjunflion wiih the Delawa»e, and thence
across to the Jersey (hore. Jt has tlie privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the SoMcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
] Vav ia. itawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeifl, returns her sincere ac
" knowledgemcnt for the liberal encourageme«t
(he has received during four years relidense iu
[ Philadelphia; and ifliires her friends aiKl tbe
' public,' so far from intending to decline her
' school, she has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
L scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
etjucati#nis attended to by Mrs.
' Gpoombridgc and masters excelling in their
] refpeflive profeftions.
1 Corne'r of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June *th, 1797- J'imfet
f The fituatiwn is perfeilly healthy ; and made
> more agreeableby an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Jujl Published,
t And to be had of MelTrs. DoVifon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the oilier pricipa! Bookftllers in tSe
city,price one dollar, twmty-five cents,in boards,
• New* Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
Jure 20.
The Philadelphia, Atfion, and 7 t^hnlua
M AIL S T A G K,
rH P. frtpriskn tig lam to inform tbe public t'-si
tbey Lave eJlMjbtd a Stage between PbiltKi.'fil;*,
Atfion, Bjtf.o, Ilanjittn, Speedwell, and Murthl Fur
nace, Wading River fitting mill, and the t-mm of ','uri
erton, in JVewferfey, to go once a week, ar.d are jt'*-ovi
ded with gocd horses. a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail, pajfettgerr, and
goods. The Stage will flart entry Tburfday, a f I©
o'clock, A. M. frp;n Air. Daniel Cooper's Ferry and
lodge that night ct Joel Bcdine's, at Longacoming j and
cm on Frid/y.ct 6 o'clock, P. AT. arrive at Cats'? E
va/is's, in keeper, in Tucierton, difiant from the cil } 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, andfrom the FaflGrafing
Plains 7 miles) where are goad accommodationt for tra
vel lets y and ivhere are commodious and fafe pajfige iboats
provided to convey paffergers to Capt. William HHar
rington s hovfcj cn Tucker's lfland{ ad jo'inning tbi At*
lajitic, where are good acccmmoaations, and d conn nieaf
place tqbptjie ; the sportsman tube ivifbes to regale bk'/tjelf
with fowling andjijhing, may at this place be highly gra
tified, iberd being at almofl every season of the year Jowl
andjijb in abundance.— The Stage on its return, jlarts
from the aforefaid C Evans* sin Tucker ton, every Vttef
day, at 6 o'clock, A, As. Ireuhfajls at John Eodint? j, at
Heading River Bridge, lodg' that night at Longa,co\iing,
aqj ct I o'clock, P, JVI. on IVednefday, arrive <*t the
i sores i:d Cooper's Ferry. It is prefumedthat no rofte of
an equal difiance will he less ex or furnijh tha tra -
Iteller with a greater variety nf amusement, as he will
not only have a p leaf ant fail in the a tic. n tic from Tucker
ton, lyt have the, curiojity of feeing on the road thitbt r a
number of capital furn fifes- a<ui f roes, and one fl tiling
mill, in complete ord.r, and .at work ; too, \wh'J
are owners, or faßors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are foliated to encourage and support this flage ('by *U'.I ch
they can be so wellaccommoda'edJ. the continuance of wh ic'a
will much depend on their aid. The rates of paffengtrs
at{d baggage are as follows : For \ paffctiger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Fe/ty to Tu chert qn, including
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way pajfengtrt
per mile, Four Cents—— 150 of baggage equal to a pas-
Poft age of letters, newfpafers, &e. will be
f agreeably to law.
N. B. The tjtail cro[f;s frqm the Old Ferry.
Thoit as iv a Able & c O .
Tucker ton, Sept. 28. 061. f Zazutf
The Norfolk JViifiUTAGE. '
THU Stage starts from the GKOiAGE Tavern,
at tha corner of Second Arch Streets, ia
Philadelphia, every 'Tu:j':iy, Tburfday. and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the it billing ; arrives atPp
ver the firft day, at SnOwhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the thirjl day, and pn
the morning of the fourth day the paflfengers find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fei ry,
every Tuesday, I Hurfday and Situtd 'y, and the
Stryje (tart from this ferry for Philadelphia; every
Monday, Y/ednefday and Friday ; put; up at Soovr
Hill t]i;firft sight, at Dover the 2d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia iu the evening of the third
day.
| Ihediftancg on this route, between Philadelphia
1 and Norfolk, is to miles less than on any stage route
between t^pfejplaqes
Too much cannot be/aid in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engajje to return the whole fare to any
passenger, w.bo, afteriaxiag this route,
will fa-y that heever travelled in a ft age for the faiac
diftancu, so good ajroad iu America.
Anguft 11. dini.eptf.
Window Glass,
®f Quality, >rd cheaper ihjn any other in
the Cifcy-r-
OF rjjtwys S,IZ£S,
Frotn Bby 6tp 19 fry >4.
8y the finale Box or Qignti*.y» may hclhad at tbe
ftorc of the SttWcribcre, corner of \r«h adA prcnt
iticcc.
1 James C. & samuelW. FrJ&sr.
I June 0,1 $ rwtnwftf
30 Dollars Regard.
RAN away on Saturday last, twa indcnteSSer
vants, 6ifs»rd .Dally, a mulatto boy, about j 7
,ye<vrs of age, a ilim light built atlive ftllotv, can
read an<i write,live feet fevea or eight inches high,
! h»s a heavy count9war.ee ; had oa a fuftian coatee
and trewfers, 3 high crowned hat, fine ftoes &e.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 14 -years at
i age, five tcct (even or inahfshigh,a thick set
cluufy built fellow, pprticularly.about the breech;
Jiad on a fai'or'i blue jacket lined with fil'anfcin,
• dark fltiped vest, fuftisn trowfers, frowned
hat, coarse stipe?, &c.; each of them had ieueral
Ihirts and Several other cloathcs with them. Thir
. ty Dollars will he paid for the runaways, or 15 doV
' lars for each, and rcafonable charges, OB delivering
_ (hem at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year from L<v»is
Town, in the County of Sufle-i, state of Delx
- ware, and has taken the boy with him. '
July 31. mtu3cf3w
~Vobe~9OLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on «h«
■I~X South :.de of Filbert flreet, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as tie Sur
veyor General's Office.
if Th.; Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of i ni«e
feet wide Alley extending -the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriage*
- to mrn in. The House is not plaflernJ, and
. may be turned either inti> t>ne, or two dwelling
S) Hoofes. It is hiitabie for a large
or would make a goqd Tavern. Imaiediafe
. pofleflion will be given.
, Apply to Jfo. ui, Chefaut-Simt.
c A "P- "- M
" Musical lnjlrument A/l&iufaftory.,
Nq. 167, Arch-Street.
y TTARPER.,harpfichotd,grand,portable grand,
XI lid --board, pier .table pr.d ftjuace piapo tbrx
II malur from London, returns thanks to his fricinfe
and the public, for their liberal encourageme»t,
" ardtiopes that by his afiidnity and attcnticn to ev
e eiy btanch of his business, to.ir.trit a cortiDuance
e . of their favors. Piano fsrtes made on the newest
and most approved plans, with ft
swell, and French harp flop, which heflatteis
himfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudice4
judges, to be et|ual if not fuperiorto any import*
~ ed, and twenty per c«ut cheaper. Any inflrn
,m«nt purfhafed < f him, if not approved of «i
, twelve months, he will exchange,
j- N. B. All kinds of .Mufic.il ipftrii&ents mada,
uned, and repa ren v/ith the grtatoft accuracy,
" dispatch, and on the motl real, i:ablc ternu, i*.r
; ' ready money only.
B Second Piano Fo»te» taken in exchange.
e May &»m.
. r Forty Dollars Reward.
r pi AN away fi-nm the fnhicdbei" on the Tec
e JtV pndday of this inft. July, a Mulatto Man,
named Will iiowzer, aliout fotty years of age,
ir fivo feet i'even ps ejgbt inches high, ratotr
chunky made ; had on when ho went away, a
drab colored cioth goat, griped purple trowfets
and jacket. It is probatle he will change his
!e cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
>t tiid fellow formerly beloiigtil to Mr. Charles
Blake, of this place; and it is expe&eci he has
made towards Jonw's Neck, in the Delaware
State. —Any person apprehending lhe feid fel
e - lew, and securing hifn so that I can get him a.
le gain, faall receive, the %S)ove reward if taken
s ' out of. the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
£ the county, and all r«afonablfc charges if bro't
home*
JESSE REED,
Queen Ana'i Scanty, Maryland,