ot t\yt UltlitttS and -Philadelphia Daily Advevtiser\
Nv.nr,jig 1553.]
SALES BY AUCTION,
Stated Sales v
Far X D R1" GOODS.
—Edward Fo*, No. 56,
iW*A ,/ outh Fro "j- ilreet .
• ) Afternoon—Footman & Co. N». 6j
f South Front-street.
f Forenoon—Johft Connelly, Old City
¥*efdat< Atiiflion, No. 73 foutti Front-street.
■ J Afternoon—William Shannon, Noi.
V. 183 High-street.
tVednefdas J Alternoon—Peter Benfon, No. 74
I south Third-ftrcet.
'Thurfiay \ Forenoon Edward Fox.
t Afternoon—John Conp.elly.
Friday ? Forenoon—Williar* Shannon.
) Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter lVnfon.
United States, 1 _
Pennsylvania Diftridf. j ■*>' '
IN purfuancc of a writ to me directed from the
honorable Richard Peters, Efij. Judge of th«
DidtiA Court of the United States in and for the
Pennsylvania Di&ri&, will be exposed to Public
Sale, at the Merchants'Coffee-houie, in the city of
Philadelphia, on Monday, the eleventh day of
September next,?t r2 o'clock at noon,
Brigantine, called the
. MARIA,
M'ith all and Angular the tackle, ap
r»rel ®nd furniture as they now are ;
the said Brigantine having condemned to pay
Mariners wages, See.
Wm. NICHOLS, Marjhal.
Marlbal's Office, 7
August 20, 1797. J
N. B. The Inrcntory may be seen at my OIH ee
• White Havanna Sdgar.
1461 boxes') of very fupcriarqualiry now difcharg
jf >hhds. S ing from tke ship Hamburgh Packet,
Street wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nick/in & Co.
V. B.
J. THE- SHIP
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Master,
For Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 24. 1 ' eotf
"TCOMMISSIONERS SALES,
THE Commiflioners of the counties of Ly
com?ag and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
£$ The different printers in this fcity will
render an essential service to a great number of
individuals by pubhfbing this notice.
Aug. 18.
FOR SALE,
BRET AGNES In cases
German Checksin do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and filverWatehe»
Window Glass to by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in eaiks, &e. See.
George Pennock,
103, High-Strett.
Jp'y s- jaw
NOTICE.
IF Thkoy O'Hara, who some ye:irs fincekept
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Kaf
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marlhal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive in
ttrrefting information.
AugvJl 4. mw&f 4w
~THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREIN LEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
•f the property afiigned to for the fecurlng
the payment of the note , acceptances, »nd en
dorsements given Edward Pox, for the use
of the said James Greenltfaf; and the holders of
l'uch notes, acceptances, and endorlements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fjttle
with them for the amount of their refpeilive
claims, both principal ami interest, at
any time before the scth day of Oflober next;
after which day, the holder* not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of assign
ment.
Applications to bemade at south-east corner
of Deck and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
•Jock every day, Sunday.' excepted.
Henry Pratt,
•STho. W. Francis,
John Miller, J un.
John Afhley,
Jacob Baker..
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. d
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Prefant John Hall, See'ry.
Francis Johnfton, R. G. > oflandoflice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G- )
■Nicholas Bettinger, }
verfu *" >
Samuel Cunningham.)
Inthis cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing inefficient, Itisordered that notice be giv
<cn in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
per* weekly, at least eight weeks to the
heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunniftgham de
iceafed, to atttend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, to (hew cause why a patent
fliould not issue to Nicholas Bettinger for the
Jand in queftioo.
( A true Copy.) ,
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug.
The Inhabitants of the Diftri£l
of Southwark,
A RE informed that a Coacheeis provided, to be
J a_ k;pt at the Contlables' olßce, the north east
c«rner of" Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick prrfons who desire to be frs
moved to the City Hospital, are requested to make
application —Also, a Heatfe will be kept in readt
nelß for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. E.— Tfie Poor, who with to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be lurr.jfhed with ordets
by applying a» above. 29-'
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, AUGUST 31, i 79 7.
To be SOLD or RENTED,
AL VRGE 3 Story Brick 'lortfe, on the
SQuth fide ef Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office. j.
The Building is 36 feet front and 3 5 feet de«p,
the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
{o turn in. The House is not plastered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is suitable for a large' ManufjiSJory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
poffeflion will be given,
Apply to No. hi, Chefnut-Street.
Aug. 21. cod<t.
TO BE SOLD- VERT CHEAP !
A Light WAGGGN almost new, witha frame—
and a pair of harness (English collars) has never
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hand I high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 320.
Enquire No. 331, Market-flreet.
QAuguft 24. dlw
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLrAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in' No. V and VI of
" The History of the United State* for
the year 1796,"
1 In which the charge or speculation againit
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Tmasur, is FULLY
REFUTED.
tr HIT Ti H BY HlMiEir.
This publication presents a concise ftatemrnt
ot the-Haf'e meant praiSliled by rfie Jacobins of the
United Statu to asperse the charn&ers of rhofc
persons who arc considered as hottile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and MclTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenbiirgh and Venab'e, on the fub
jc& of (he documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynold«,and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the polfibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
Was the rclult of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter and his aftociates to extort money.
'•&" A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor oi wholefaie purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Yovno.
Awrufl 15.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every TutfJay, TburfJay, and Satur-
J*y, at 3 o'clock, in the iroming ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day,' at Snowhill the second day. at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the palTengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey thorn to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fetry,
every Tuefdiy, Thurfiay and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Mori, ay, Wednesday and Friday ;iputs up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, it So miles lcl's than on any stage route
between those places-
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
w llingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled,in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Aiiguft ir. dmuerftf.
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amllerdam and Hamburg, and for sale by
B. bf J. Bohlen,
A Urge ajfortmmt of fine French Cambrics,
Platillas Kuffia uid Dutch failcioth
linttannias Writing, port, and print-
Kouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Du'ch calf lkira
Checks ai\d flripej • Prime madder
Ticklenburga Shell'd Barley
Oznaburgs Looking glafles
White (heetingr Hollow glaf* wire
Biaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellls Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Black and white laces TovsalTorted in boxes
Best Holland Gin in pipes
London particu.tr Madeira Wine
July 24- mitthtf
IMPO R T E D
Inthofhip America, James Swing, matter, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Platillas
Ticklenb«rgs
Coarse Linens
T'Pf? ,
Looking Gtafles 7 r
Glaft Tumblers j in c,fer
FOR SALE BY
• George Pennock.
Augujt 14. 3 aw
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and forfaleby
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
flreet.
C. Haight.
June si. coif
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for fate by John Morton, NO. IJ6, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin Ctka<3
Young Hyson
Imperial J
April 20. e"tf
Chocolate and Milliard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Biiiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton aird Button Ale
Red P.irt and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-cask or gallon—suitable
"■for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
,Jchn Haioorth,
No. 93 f»uth Front flreet
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefnut Street.
Mrs. G RAT TAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
that he* house, No. 191, Markrt-ftreet, will con
tinue open during the fiekcefs.
Board and Lodging in a ft-parate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, eiout dbllarj.
For the convenience of th. f• gentlem«i> who
have not their amMics ill town, Mrs. GSattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at halj a dollar
a 1 iv. Avr.-H lo —' t
TO BE SOLD,
And poffejfion given immediately,
ALARGfc cvvo story brick Houfe,handfomely
fituatedin Princeton There are four roonu
and a large entry on,each floor, and five room* in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and apiaz2aof 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two l
(laliles, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for 27 ho'rfes. The heal
thiness and pleasantness ot its situation, and th«
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
nnar the town, reader it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city, the commodioufuefs of
the house, it? central position, and the largeness of
the stables, make it every suitable for a tavern, for
which it has always been considered as a capital
ftaad. Inquire on the pretmfes, of »
ISAAC SNOWDEN, jva.
Princeton, Ang. 23 -2y—dtw2*iwtf
COUGHS, COLDS7ASTHMAS,"and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jul! riceived, by Wm, Griffiths, No. t77,South
Second>flreet, a frefti supply of
Genuine Balsam of Honey,
AMedirine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge as aßotanift procured him
the appellation ©f the Linnxu" of Britain) and is
•onfidcred in England as a cure for the above
complaints ; it is also of lingular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
61, South Second street, anil T. Stiff, 55,JNcw
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy ef
fe&. of the medicine, (feverat cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to order a large
supply, 1 part of which he has just received.
Auguji 3. lawjw
A Cook wanted.
A WOMAN who understands the bufioefs and
can bring good recommendations, may find employ
and receive generous wages by applying at No. 67,
north Seventh-street.
ft »5- *3t
Wanted to purchase,
A pair of {lout, well broke Horses, young and
fotind. Enquire at Mr. Oellers' Hotel, Chefnut
ftreet.
Application muftbe made immediately.
Augufl ia "j t
InfuranceCmpanyof Noorth America'
nr ''HE Stockholder) Tn this compimj- are here-'
X by informed, that, pursuant to the fifth
clause of their Ch>rter, and at the reqyeft of a
" Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
proprietors of Six Thousand Shares, and up
wares," a general meeting of the Stockholders
will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
day the 25th day et September next, at n
o'clock, A. m. for the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction j and taking into
consideration such Regulations or Bye Laws as
may. be presented in conformity with the Char
ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec-ry.
July 10. w&ftSx^
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN Comp-ny,
is dissolved by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands agiinft tke said House are de- !
fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and 1
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay- !
ment to hiip—By whom business will in future be
carried on, at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street.
t Awrufl 7 cod4W
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public ingrneral
that he has removed from No. 129, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Arch and Race streets.
July % n . iaw4w
Rofs Ss 5 Simfon,
HAVE FOR SALE—
C Hogiheads,
Excellemt Coffee in < Tierce?, and
f \ Barrels.
A /mall parcel of nice cocoa in bags
* few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Teneriffee wine, ©ld and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the package
A few hampers best Englifli cheek.
July 37. dtf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the Citv —
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From Bbv 6 to 19 ky 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be had at the
S'ore of the Subscribers, corner ot Arch and Frcmt
' street.
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797. 1 wmwftf
This Day is Published,
BY MefT. Dobfon, Carev, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Bookfeilcrs,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
E{eg a fit J printed on Wove paper, and Hot
prtjfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Confutation, and
classing together their most important provisions,
under the several heads*of administration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Cdngrefs of the
United States.
Dedieated to tha People of thu United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed en an inferior pa
per, at 3-flthsof a dollar.
February i saws
1 Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
ir Walnut St eet,
Bonrdeaux-Brandy ~)
Irish market claret in cases Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HhS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter ca/kt
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, latt-ly arrived
from Europe, wishes to find here a place in
the quality of a Director of a Glafs-houfc, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular means for the
conftruflion of the kilns, pots, &c. and poffefiing
like\Vife the articles used in the Glals houses of
England and France, having worked a long while,
in m.ft of thtm. Every exertion will be made to
render the manufactory deserving of public appro
bation— He, who wishes td speak to him, will find
him at No. J75 Front-ftieet.
Auittiff 14. ■ » 4 t
Fur iale or to be let on ground
-1 rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eiftcorner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
op Walnut flreet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, jnd continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five sett, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the conveniance of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fadtor,or others who
may have occasion for fto'rage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for cafti. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large affoftment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romallt
B'ne Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice ef Irish Linens and Sheetings, well
afTorted <
A box ef Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes ef fine Spices, cot&ining Nutmegs,
• «_ M«PC and Clovm
Black Pepper of firft quality
Eafl India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wina
Ditto of jGin
Roll Brimstone
•Mordecai Lewis.
Xugufi 12. jflw I m
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of % feet Cedar
Shingles cf a superior Quality, for sale at 13
dollars p«r thousand.
William Hallowell,
No. 193 North Thirdjlreet.
July 17. jeoitt^
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an acft of Congress of the
United States of America, pafifed at Phila
delphia, the aßth day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or t" 1«. out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paflengcrt*, the several duties ajid
rates following, to wit:
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dols,
upon every Post Chariot, ii, dols.
upon every Poll Chaise, 12 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, havinj; pannelwork
above, with blinds, glasses or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriage®, having fra
med posts dnd reps with fleel springs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
en or iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
* upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
u> on other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two >vheel carriages, % dols.
upon every four'wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and tops, and retting up
on wooden spars, 2 do's,
The 'Colle&ors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftri& of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September next, lor
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
No, 117, in Race or Safiafras-ftreet, in the City of
Philadelphia ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair J£fq,
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all persons poffelTed of such Carriage* are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO allTetail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquor*, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less 'quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquori in less quantities than jo gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
er! legally authol-ifed t» grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeilor of the Revenue of the firft fui.
vey of the Diftriit of Pennsylvania.
Office of Infpeijion at ">
Philadelphia, jd Angufl, 1797. j
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
I)itto ditto Claret in cases
Just ledeived, and for Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
Aug, 21. aawtf
Philadelphia, isthjuly, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, thatf separate pro
posals with sealed covers Mill be received
at my office until the eleventh day of September
next, tofurn-ifh by contrail the following ar
ticles tor the use of the Army of the United
Stajtcs in the year 1798-
Ffrft Contrail for
8 Sergeants coats - "| '
2 Mulicians, do. j
10 Sergeants vests Dragoons.
126 Privates coats |
126 Private* veils
64 Sergeants coats
31 Mulicians, do.
Sergeants vests
192 Woolen overalls Artilleriflt
19* Linen overalls &
936 Privates coats Engineeri.
936 da. Vests
1572 Woolen ovaralls
1872 Linen do.
144 Sergeants coats '
72 Mulicians, do.
216 Sergeants vests
432 Linen overalls
432 Woolen do. Infantry.
1893 Privates coats
1892 do. vests
3754 Woolen overalls •
3784 Linen do.'
ift Contra<9, for< 1288 Sergeants ftiirt*
i 1816 Privates do.
12600 Socks
2(1 Contrail, for 272 pair leather breeche#.
3d Contrail, for 172 pair boots
, 460s pair (hoes, No. 1
Bcoo pair do. No. z
4th Contrail, for 1032 Artillerifls and Eogt
neers hats
»ioB Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps
The whale to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, vix.
One fourth on or before the 15th day of F»-
bruary next.
One fourth an or before the 15 th day of A
pril *ext.
The remaining half on or before the 15th day
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to such pat
terns as (hall be direfled by the Secretary for th«
Department of War.
Payments to be made as fson as the article*
(hall be delivered, and palled infpeilion.
TMNCff FRANCIS, PunxyoK
cotnthSep.
To Mafiers and Pilots bringing up VtJfA
from Foreign Porti to this City.
VT7"Hereas sundry infringements have lately beoa
VV made on the laws of this (late for the pr»
venting pestilential or infeilious diseases, cither
-from ignoraxic m inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to puWifli the following
trails from the laws of I2d April, 1794, 7th art
Bth fe&ions;
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
ExtraS of an ail for securing the city and pert
of Philadelphia from the introduction of pefti
hntial and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And he it further enailed, that every
mailer or captain of any (hip or vessel coming from
sea (vessels actually employed ,n the loading trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdiilion of Pennsylvania,(had caufehislhip
or vessel to be brought to anchor,or other wife flay
ed in the dream of the river Delaware, oppsfitw to
the Health-Office on State-Island aforefaid, and
there to remain until he (hall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Refidcnt Phy
sician. Andil, previeufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any master or captain (hall
fufferhisihip or vessel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hall land, cause crfuffer to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent o! being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any perfou or persons, or ary goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if afterreceiving such bill of health
o; certificate, he (hall :iegl;<a or refufe to deliver
the fame to the Health-Officer, such master ot cap
tain (hall foifeit arid p.-.y, for each and every such
offence, the sum of FIVE hundred dollars.
And the captain or mader of every (hip or ves
sel (hall fend afafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and (hall in like manlier
-convey him back to the H*a!th-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, or in (afe any subse
quent examination by tho Officer or Con»
(lilting physician, agreeably to the direilions of
thi- ail, the master or captain (hall expole or cau(e
to be expoled to the search of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Phyfi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
(hip or vessel, and Jhall present to hi* view eaell
and every person or perfpns on board thereof, and
and (hall also true and fatislailory answers mak«
to all luch questions as the Resident Physician, See.
at the time of examination (hall alk relative to the
health of any port or place frem which the lhip or
vessel failed, or has since touched at—the number
of persons on board when the ffiip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpetSively—what persons on board—
s they haVe been curing the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, be infeiled with any pet
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent (late and condition of the persons on board
with refpcil to their health or disease*. And if
any master er captain (hall rcfufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
„ if he conceal any fck p;rfon,tr in any other man
ner deceive the proper officers aforefaid in bit anfauers. t
uch captain or master, for every such offence, ftiaU
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred sua
lars.
Sect. 8. And if ap.y tierfon or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Phyiicijn, &c. excepted) (hall
go ob board any vessel, before the master thereof
has received a certificate of heal h in the manner
directed, every person so offending, (hall pay the
urn of ONE KKNDRLO DOLLARS
IT being aMolutely necessary that the foregoing
feilions ftiould be punctually complied with, the
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mull ex
ail a rigorous observance of the fame, or else be
under ths nscefiity of putting the laws in force.
Wm. AJLLEN, HealtJ, Officer <f tU
Pert of Philadelphia. ,
July 14.
fVOLVMK XII.-'PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY SVF.NING, Au}uJ 3 x.
Lift of the burials during the ex'flence of the
Ytllu w Fever in 1793, per Carey's Lift.
At'g it 13 Bro't up 811 lJto't up 1888
Z.I 10 Sept.' 9 J7 OS 16 7D
24 17 13 67 17 80
15 I» 21 57 18 59
46 17 22 76 19 ' 65
27 II 23. 68 20 59
S3 12 14 96 21 53
19 24 25 87 22 82
30 20 26 52 23' 54
31 17 27 60 24 38
Stpt. 1 j 7 18 51 25 35
» 18 39 57 26 23
3 I' 3o 63 27 13
4 23 Otf. 1 • 74 28 25
5 20 » 1 67 29 17
6 24 3 ?8 30 >6
7 18 4 58 31 »2
8 42 5 Nov. 1 13
9 32 ft 76 2 21
10 29 7 82 3 »5
11 23 8 90 4 15
1» 33 9 1(2 J 14
13 37 10 93 6 II
14 48 11 149 7 15
15. 56 12 in 8 8
16 67 13 IQ4 9 6
17 81 14 81
18 68 15 80 3719
8w 2888
•N. 8. The ordinary deaths at the above season
of the yar in times of ofaal health, would not
have exceeded 10 to 15 per day.
Mr* Whitlock, lately of the New Theatre, has
joined a theatric cprp-- at M w-York, ?rtd made
her appearance in the charafler of Isabella.
Wignell, with his company, are performing in
the Circus eretSed at New-York by Ricketts.
The Eagle, (printed at Hanover, New-
Hamfhire,) after giving an acconnt of the
. recently mentioned tat influenza states that a
disease of nearly the fame kind has prevailed
among the geese in that quarter: the flate
#itnt follows :
41 A disorder something similar to the a
bove, we are forrj» to announce, has of late
prevailed among the geese of this vicinity.
During the last week, the mortality has been
very alarming. Four br five have sometimes
expired in a night. Some appear to have
been ieized with a delirium, and have seized
cattle by the tail, and hung on till they
were dragged and kicked to death. Others
like the pillar faints, of the third and fourth
centuries, have, during the night, ported
themfelvcs on the pillars and gate-pofta, and
bave actually found dead there, in the
morning. This malady is by some attri
buted to the noxious quality of the water,
especially that of the pump in the college
, yard, which the geese have been aecuftoin
ed to frequent. This opinion is probably
well founded, as those geese which have
not frequented that water arc in a very good
state of health. A similar distemper pre
vailed here about a year ago.
What llrangedifeafeshave of late broke loose;
I.i)! there a kitten c!i< s, and here a goose!
jC
" Withpltif*r 1 we ltarn, (fays the Botlon Chro
nicle) that the Cuevalier de Yrujo is expeQed in
town in a few days"—for our calh begins to rnn
very low.
A wretch by the name of Haley, has uttered, in
a letter publ Ihrd in the news papers, a number
of sentiments which, while they excite abhorrence
at the turpitude of the writer, will serve as a use
ful ctavh jacobinica, to those who were loth to cre
dit in their full extent, the current opinions ofithe
malice and hiaekntf* of jacobin hearts. His prin
ciples are precisely he fame as those dilT mir.aterl
by Bache and all the other jacobins ; with thi« dif
ference only, that Haley being illiterate had not
the art to disguise, like them, his infernal tenets.
Every honest republican, every man who hat pe
netration enough to view jacobinilm in its true
toUurs, will find a ufeful elue to their real designs,
in thin mafler-piece of bajeneft ind villainy and
every fucli man ought carefully to prefere a copj
ef it. I take pleasure in believing that the writer
of the letter alluded to, is not an American. 1
MR. FEN NO,
AS long as the Grange and absurd opinions, .
which at prefeist divide the community, continue ■
to prevail, To long will our capital tow«t continue
to become at times the feats of contagious difor- 1
ders. While the fe3aries of one claf« of tenets I
ob.linately maintain that the yellow fever whene- |
ver it has hitherto appeared in this country, ha* c
been indigenous, their opponents as pertinaciously
deny that the climate can admit of its becoming 1
so each party at the fame time ftrenu»ufly urg- '
i»g an attention to one cause, while to guard a- t
gainst the other is deemed ufclefs ?nd futile.
A course suggests, ohviouflyealculated to meet
the opinions and wishes of all : That is, to i&
upon the convifhon that malignart diseases may be c
generate lon the spot, and to let the fnperintend J
ance of the health of th» city be committed to 't
persons of this perftaarfion. At the fame time, let I
the officers appointed to guard against the intro •
duftion of infectious Jifeafes from abroad be en- 1
trufled to persons whs believe that contaginn may c
bf imported. Simple as this courfc may seem, Jl
the reverse of it has ben purfucd. If the yellow I'
fever be indigenous to this climate, surely our city, n
during the present summer, has abounded in filth 1
and nauseous vapours, «f every deferirtion, in a
fufficient degree to have created an universal con- "
tagion. A B. t
LITER ART. '
Saint Pierre, in his grut work, - The v
Studies of Nature," has made, perhaps, the *!
most valuable aoceflion to the stores of mo
dern philpfophy. / 0
GoWfmith has been praised for familia- 0
rizing fcienct, and for fire wing with flowers "
what Dr. Johnson denominates " the dully "!
deserts of barren philosophy." But Gold
smith, without being superior to St. Pierre "
in eloquence, is less profound, less accurate, n
less informing.
Of this most intelligent guide,,through °J
the walks ofnature, an edition of fjis dtlec
tabic " Studies" has lately been given by
Mr. Joseph with a lustrous paper
and type, not often witnessed in America. er
Few books have been more liberally fubferi- ; t
bed to ; but Hill, to the mass of readers, a lar
ufeful arid pleasing book is almost unknqwfi. an
On men of letters, an enterprizing bookfel- bu
ler haß always Ilia claims ; and it 'may be
correftly stated, that those of Mr. Nan- |,j
trcde are peculiar. He has with an adtci}- to
51 turous spirit, rifquei a larg? imprefiion of a
bulky work, and, exceeding his" proposals,
without enhancing his demands, furnilhes
his fubfcribei's with an edition, on Englilh
woven,. iuftead»f an inferior, and American
paper.
Good Books, •well printed, with men of
the science and taste, seem not mtrely to merit,
j/?' but to challenge encouragement. America
:88 has been pronounced indifferent to letters,
and studious men haveoeen direfted to Rome
S r, for a Maecenas, rather than to Boflon. Let
65 the reader and the patron, in this country,
59 refute this ignominious charge, and in the
|3 midst of abundance, fuffer nat the eorn to
s wither on its Jlalk, for lack of watering.
38 (Bajlon Mercury.
* To the Editor of the Auroraj
, j In answer to the Queries proposed and the
25 observations made by B. F. Bache ref
- 17 pcfting the conduA of the British Mi
' 6 nifter.
Query. "-Did not Mr. Lflon draw up
j t the pTan of the expedition againll the Louifi
, f anas and the Floridas ?"
15 No. Mr. Liflon never drew up or fug
-14 jjefted any of any expedition whatever.
J' He listened indeed to the proje&s of A
g meriean Speculators. He doubtless put in
-6 to writing what they suggested in tonverfa
— tion. And if he afted with prudence, he
19 exhibited to the parties concerned a copy of
what he had put upon paper, that they
"on m 'g^ t judge whether he had fairly and fully
10t stated their meaning.
But this is surely different from drawing
up the plan of an expedition. As well might
w it be alledged of yOn,Mr. B.F. B. that when
ide you print an account of the debates in the
in House of Representatives from the notes
which you scribble in the Congress Hall,
you compose the harangues members,
w- Now, though you may attenfpt to improve
he and embellilh the declamations of the patri
ta ots. and though you mutilate and mifreprc
ed sent the sentiments of honest men, it would
t'e- not be true to fay that you aftually draw
up their speeches.
3- _ The plan thus proposed to the Briti'lh mi
ite nifter, put in writing by him, and commu
y. cated to hisfuperiors (as he made no diffi
en culty in acknowledging,) regarded the Flo
ies ridtif, not Lou'fiana. The projedi of au at
ve tack from Canada was never thought of till it
ed was drawn up by the ingenious Knight of
ey the dillinguilhed order.
ts " Did not Mr. Liston take into
th employ Captain Chisholm and others, citi
i*d zent of the United States, for the purpose of
id carrying into effeft the said plan
le No. Mr. Liflm never took, never tho't
himfelf authorized to take, any step, of any
r, nature, for the purpose of carrying the plan
r e into effeifl. He merely communicated the
projedi to his government. ' •
[y
, e Chijbolm to England ?"
d _ Yes. Having charged Mr. Chi/holm with
t- dispatches, to which he was to bring back
the answer, Mr. Liflon paid his passage out ■
; and no doubt will pay his passage home if it
is demanded.*
Q. " Did not he [Mr. Liflon) recoin
mrnd {Chtfholm] to hfs goTertTfnfnrT'"
n Isr °* And committee are in poffeflion
„ of papers which we believe tend to prove
that had fuoh a recommendation beeß alked
it would not have been granted. •
n Q. " Were not commissions promised to
r bthers, citixau of the United States ?"
c No. None were promised either to citi
zens, or ah'ens. What hopes may have
e been entertafned by sanguine prbjeAors, or
- what lflofe coDverfation may have taken
1 place among them in their moments of con
t" fidential intercourse, is a different question.
1. None of the number it is believed will have
. the assurance to fay that they ever imparted
= their golden dreams to the British minister ;
I and there would be injustice in rendering
him responsible for their extravagance,
r " And were not overtures made in be- •
half of Mr. Liflon to one person, if not '
more, aSually in the pay of the United States ?" 1
\ Most assuredly not—not by Mr. Ltfton's 1
• authority or #ith his knowledge. If Mr. 1
; Bache would mention particulars, and fpeci- '
. fy names, confutation would be
1 the mean time the thing appears to approach 1
to a moral impoflibility. The promoters |
1 of the scheme for attack on the Spanish ter- c
ritory, as proposed to the British minister, (
seem, seem to have been of the number of f
those who call themfelvei the friends of li
berty, the affertors of the rights of man, the f
only genuine lover»-of their countryand i
of course, you know, the worst enemies of J
British connexions. Is it to be supposed d
then, that a British minister newly arrived C
(for Mr. Liflon had not been eight mouths C
in the country when this business commen- „
ced) would have dared to make overtures to t
men of this description and those too, aftual- e
Iy in the pay of the United States ? Yon
might as soon make me believe that Mr.
Lflon hat the custom of thrusting his fift '
into every r hornet's nest he comes near, or
that he bounces uninvited into the meetings I
of the democratic society of Philadelphia, i,
No, my good man ; if any overtures n
were made on that occasion, they were.made n
to Mr. Lflon, not by him. Now, indeed,
that he has acquired a competent knowledge fl
of the principles and chandlers of the fafti- *
on, it would not be surprizing if heaffumed "
more courage and trod more boldly. For *
my own part I should not stare if I heard ti
that he had made fucccfsful advances to the M
most renowned of their champions, the im- °
maculate Benjamin Franklin Bache himfelf.
Q. " Were not overtures made in behalf fj'
of Mr. Liflon to persons influential among a ,
the Indians ?" al
Never with his consent or knowledge.
(X " And were not the Savages to be v
employed in the expedition ?"
it right to defray Cl.i(holm's fxpences while in Eng. w
I land. But if l'o, when we consider the difficulties P'
and delays that occur in the tranfa&ion of public 8'
business in old and corrupted countries, and the r )
consequent probable protrailion of his stay in Lon- '''
don, we fruli that the poor man's allowance will d'
be wore liberal than Mr. B. F. Bache fecme inclined 'h
to fuppoft it. (f&cn'y pmndi. J w
a This was proposed and objedied to.
>, Q. " Was no t Chi/holm the bearer of
-* Mr. Lofton's plan ?"
" No. GhtJJiolm was tbe bearer of his ovrri
14 plan and that of his aflbciates.
dispatches to his fuperiora, any doults of the
t> propriety of Carrying it into effeft out of ref
:a to the Uuited States or from motives of
s > humanity ?"
Yes, he Hated these very motives, and
- f exprefTed his doubts so flrcngiy as to induce
r> his superiors to throw aside the plan. This
ie appears from the answer he received from
0 them.
« Were not his doubts entirely con
fined to the degree of confidence proper to
be reposed in Chi/holm, whom he Jsegan to
|e diftr'uft. jujl before his departure V
f. No. A flight comparison of dates wijl
that this could not pofiibly be the
cafe. Mr. LiJlosi's dispatches, containing
the doubts which dafrined the projeft, were
f forwarded in January, whereas Mr. Chif
holni s departure (and of course the doubts
r _ supposed to have arisen juji before it) did
' r- no' take place till-the latter end of March
' or beginning of April,
j.
ment to declare, whether he knew any thing
°f s uc h an expedition, did not he (Mr.
Liton) at iirft unequivocally deny it, then
afiert that though some such plan had been
y proposed to him, he had discouraged it ?"
Here it is essential to make a diftindtion
which Mr. Bache is anxious to confound.
f t ° ur government mentioned to Mr. Lif
■n t° n » that the Spanish Envoy pretended
ie "an expedition was preparing on the Lakes
fw an attack on the Spanifl Pejls in Up
[j ( per Loui/ratia."
s ' The Britilh Minister made answer that
re °f nn fuck preparations, and did net
believe they exiffed.
c He said true. No such preparations were
~ ever made ; tib such expedition was ever
thought of.
w At a certain di(lance of time he is aflced
to f a y whether some other expedition had
no' b «en in agitation. He anfwfers that
J. another had indeed been proposed, (mean
ing the projected attack on Florida) but
£ that the idea had not been of.
it There is in all this nothing of contradic
' tion or inconsistency. It is the plain and
simple truth. S
, o A °d every part of your premises being
. thus shewn to be groundless or irrelevant,
your conclusion of course must fall to the
ground.
>t Your indecent accusation of the Secre
y tar y of State,, resting as ft does on the fame
n baseless fabric, is involved in the equal ruiu.
" Mr. Pickering (you fay) was early ac
quainted with Mr._Lifton's plan. He well
. knew its existence before he made any en
quiry of the British Minister."
Now it is impoflible the Secretary could
t h . avc any knowledge of a projedted expedi-
tion from Canada againfl Upper Louisiana,
for tfie plain reason that no such plan ever
1 exited. *
And he had no knowledge of the pro-
Jofrd StfaeLon _tha FWiiu, till tire- dlfco
very of Blount's letter: immediately after
. wh, . ch he made the enquiry of Mr. Lifton,
. which produced an avowal of the fad un
der the Minister's own hand.
Iri all this there is nothing but what is
proper, ,-and indeed meritorious. But I
feel that I must offend colonel Pickering
by stooping to defend him against your ca
lumny.
ALBANY, Huguft 15.
COMMUNICATION.
Various have been the methftds adopted by
the difafleited to sap the confidence of the peo
ple in the Government. They have exerted
their influence at home, and their influence a- .
broad. Their nightly cabals, and mid-day as- 1
foeiations, have proclaimed the rankling enmi- j
ty »f their hearts towards the admlnillration of ,
ourcountry: affiliated focietiei, in differ ent parts
as the Union, have fucceflively relponded to the
loud clamours of fadiion—and commiflioned fo
reign agents hive betH encouraged to insult thr
political Guardians of America, and to appeal to
tbepeople, from the decisions of the conflicted i
authorities.—lneffectual as have hitherto prov- I
ed all the Protean arts of the dil'affedled, afid c
notu'ithftanding the determination shewn by a
great majority of our citizens to continue their
confidence in those whom they have eleited to f
the management of their important public con-
cerns, there are yet fueh who do not despair of J'
being able to rendei the government odious, by f
anathematizing its measures, when they are b
sensible that government will not deign to make t
itfelf a party oa the occasion. To the lift of r
appellants to the people of America, is now ad- '
ded the nameoftheci-devant Plenipo to France, a
Citizen James Monroe. How much longer the a
Citizen, and his intended appeal, will liv« in th« c
public notice, than those who, with similar ft
modes of procedure, have gene before him, c
time must determine. A few remarks, howev- „
er, upon what has already been exhibited by
him, may not be deemed amiss. P
Citizen Monroe, before he made his apptica- c
tion to the Secretary as State, well ,kriew that
the Executive would not permit an official ex- h
ploriation of the motives which induced his re- a
cal ; but the application he conceived would give T
importance to his intended appeal—as thereby
no incanfidrt able number amoiig'the molt nu- r
merous class of our eitizens, might be led to be
lieve that a confcioufnels in the purity of /his in
tentions induced the step alfo that such
would entertain the idea that the reasons which if
influenced the adminiffration to decline the dif- li
cuffion, arose from a conviiflion that well found- w
ed causes for a reeal did not exist. But the
true reafoni for not engaging in the difcuflion 31
with Citizen' Monroe, are afligned in'the letter 0
of the Secretary of State, to the Citizen, dated ■ S'
the 24th -»,lt. an attentive re-peruf#l of it is re- n <
commended. The administration would be fij
finely employed, to be fore, in disputing incesT- m
antly with recalled miniiters, suspended agents, as
and various difmified public officers.
The' motives which Influenced President
Washingto' to recal Citizen Monroe from a '
his embafly, were undoubtedly weighty; and,
that th« measure was reqyifite and proper, few b<
will doubt who confide in the reilitude and pro- ta
priety which is attached to the character of that
great and good man. Indeed, that the Secreta
ry of State has touched the " gall'd bsrfe," in rr
his letter afiigning many reafoss which might in
duce the recal of a minister, is fully evident from
the ni.icing of the mortified " patrwt and
when the great appeal t» the people shall be made
public, thsre is little room io doubt but that the
Citizen will fjnd an aiyipie detail of the reasons
for his difniifiion, which proofs exhibited that
those reasons havea b.-tter bafts than theinfor
rn matioii of " fpiet and informers."
While the French Direftory <were yet warm
lis with their orders for captuting American vef
te fels,4nd plundering the property of our citizens
,r hew dear Mr. Monroe was to their hearts is
manifefted in the speech of. Barras, a fpeeijh
which even made lome of the Gallio- American
members of Congress cry our, (h»»u> ! Citizen
'd Freeman, from Maflachufetts, said the speech
:e °f Barras was £< more lilte childish gasconade
il» than any thing else." But the Frenchman was
m loth to part with Citizen Montoe ; he espreffed
to him that, notwithstanding the rrprehcßfible
n. conduit of the American government, in their
minister was found a good fellow j this is the
-° meaning of his expreflion. Wouid Mi*. Mon
•° roe have received, as a compliment, an addrefc
which criminated the goyernmrtit whose agent
[J] he was, if h s heart had not beat (n'tisifon with
le the heart of Barras ? and is it poflible the gov
ernment could have confidence in in agent when
® agent, with all i\iefang fmid of a French
man, could hear abuie levelled at its measures,
and, with chapeau in hand, bow .affint to the
ts censures exprefTed ? Will it be said that this lalt
id mentioned circumstance was not known antece
:h dent to the recal ? Let it beconftdered aciite
rion whereby to judge of the previous conduit
n _ of the minister during the course of his mission.
Fhe fraternal sentiments of Barras were not de
'S livere.l as merely complimentary—they came
r. from the heart—and doubtless reached the
:n heart. " Iffueb ibingt were done in the green
:n tree, ivhat were done in tbe dry ?"
Ci/izfnMonroe thinks the circumstances con
)n nested with his appointment, important—he
" fiys but little on thefuhj»a at present"—but
from them a text is to be taken, and comments
f- to follow, which will develope " the wholepoli
:d cy of administration in bis mifjion and recal."—
es Important as the Citizen considers it, the fub
fiance of that polity it is now perhaps not diffi
cult to state.—Reiterated were the clamours of.
it she " patriots" for a man of their cafl to be
sent on anembafly to Frapce —they urged that
" however much they were opposed to the gene
rality of the njeafures of government, yet that
r e they were lovers of their country equally with
>j- those who gave atone to the measures of ad
miniftration—aer.cauJd it be fuppofe4iut tbat
d " one from among them," would be as ten 1-
, cious in support of the interefls of America,
abroad, as would any charaifler whatever. Be
't fides, said they, eur Gtuation relative to France
1- is such; that fending a man of the political prJn
lt eiples we mention, wdl shew a desire for con
ciliation and harmony, which, otherwise, it may
be thought is not manifefted. '• In an evi: hour/'
j the President paid too much attention to such
suggestions and washed to believe that good
might result from the appointment : 'from the
g class of " exclave patriots" Citizen Monroe
t, was felefled, and the Senate fandlioned the nom
e ination. It is known that the President and
Sen:te have de -ply regretted that the appoinr
.. ment mas made; but made it, was : "who is
there that liveth and finnetb not?" The man
date, however, which said, return, it may be
'■ hoped was not ifiued too late.
The conduit of the Jacobins should operate as
L a warning to the present and succeeding admin
istrations. In almost all instances have they
shewn that where confidence has been placed in
j them, that confidence has been abused. Tht y
are inveterate—and, in too many instances, in
corrigible—they will not leave fcar'cely any
', th ng uneflayed to effeft their views. They
r have spouted much about (heir patriotism—but
what have been the fruits of this felf-affurrted,
„ prostituted appellation .' what, but machinations
_ a pair, ft our government, not only in a foreign
j. country, but also in the.bofoin of America—
what, but the organization of feditious,clubs —
> plots and conspiracies—and open infurreition a
- gainst the laws ?
However seir we may have been to the brink
j of a war " with our ancient and deferring ally,"
Citizen Monroe must be fully f.-ntible that the
r people have to thank, in no iuconfiderable de
gree, his fellow _ labourers, his patriotic com
peers, for the disagreeable dilemma in which the'
country has been placid : had their plans taken
effedl—had their policy been adopted, we fbould
probably, long ere this, have (seen involved in
foreign and domeflic war. But thanks'to bet
ter fortune, and to the guardian genius of Ame
rica, our government has hitherto withstood the
aflaults of its ogen and ferret enemies, and well
grounded hopes may be indulged that our po
litical barque will yet ride out the storm, and be
fafely moored in the harbour of peaCe and nrof
perity.
AUGUSTA, August 3.
When the votes of the senate were taken
for Wuliam Blount's expullion from a feat
in that house, the only negative was hon.
Mr. Tazewell, vice-prendeut at the fealt
given to cititizen Monroe.
The conduft of William Blount will not
perhaps appear so very iugular to- our rea
ders, if they will draw their attention to '
some things in which they may feel them- 1
selves more immediately interested. It has 1
been hinted (and we have really no authority i
to discountenance the idea) that Jackson's 1
sole intention in his remonstrance of Febru- '
ary to congress, was to endeavor to effedt 1
an alienation of this state from the federal 1
compact. The language of the remon- i
ftrance itfelf (without having recourse to '
collateral evidences) would have fufficiently >
warranted an idea, of the kind. Whatever c
predilection that father of discord and anar- 1
chy may have discovered towards " our a
lifter republic," we cannot think he would
have had firmnefs enough to offer Georgia as a
a bwty to the general plunder :—No ! -
Jackson may cajole and intrigue with the b
unwary and uninformed—he may bribe a a
fct of k-afcals to swear things that never have f
had existence—he may ele£t from'the state n
legislature private committees (or tribunals, c
if you will) to pass votes of censure on pub- P
lie officers who have discharged their trust a
with integrity —he lr.ay publiih firings of f<
arguments and certificates in support of his
own patriotism and heroic -a£t;ons—he may
get beastly with the rabble of Savan- ■
nah for the fake of voting, bullying' and
fighting for him at tleitione—ln short, he
may do a number of other things of equally
as little moment:—But furelv he would not
offer to make poor Georgia (alas ! too poor
and contemptible to be under the sole jarif- -
diftion of one trifling dirty mortal) a mem
ber of the French republic 1 —but—Nihil
tarn firmum efl cui periculum non fit, etiam ab
invalido, %
If Mr. M'Millan thinks the following piece tl
worthy a plane in Ijis paper, he will oblige cl
the writer by its infer tion. d-
IT hat been made a qutftion, whether,
f. an r nation; a republican form at govefn
™ ment can be long preferred: Many learned
r . and«ngenious men have adopted the nega
tive of this qiieftion, and in support of theifr
m opinion, realbn from past experience and the
f- tendency ef human nature. ' This is a sub
s je&on which, perhaps, certainty will never
h b n ,°h a "' ed - . There are some principles
■n without which no people can be
\ n free, and which, if they universally and pure
-1) prevailed, would support, forever, a re
le publican government. The degeneracy and
is corruption, however, of human 'nature is
4 such, that it is vain' tr> hope they will ever
exist in their proper purity.
e The foundation of a republic is virtue,
i _ This virtue has been accurately defined, to
f s be the preference of public to individual in
it ter<?ft; and conue&ed with it the love of the •
li democracy itfelf, as the form of government
belt calculated to promote this end. Public
® TlrtL(e cannot exist without the aids of mo-
rality and religion. Justice, temperance,
ie frugality, and all the other virtues are ulti
(t mately connefted with it. Self-love is a
•- strong and overbearing principle. It must
- - be re (trained and regulated by the influence
ft of religion, or it would defeat the end for
which it was intended. It would destroy
e the happiness of the individual, and interfere
e with the reasonable felf-love of others. Jus
„ tice, temperance- and frugality would be
trampled underfoot.
A question more limited than the former
« has of late been agitated, and on which we
s hope to arrive at some degree of cer«
ta 'nty. It is whether the French nation
_ can support a republican government ? Pre«
vioufly to entering direftly on the fobjed, it
i- may be proper to make one or two more
'f ■ observations on the foundation of a repub
® llc - Mr " Hume very justly observes that
any degree of true-6r regular liberty requires
t such improvement in knowledge and morals,
I, as can Only be the result of refteftion and
i- experience, and mull grow to perfection du
•t ritig- fe venal ages ol Jet tied and crUUi&ed
- government. *
> Examining the French people by the
c principles laid down, we (hall find 1 them ini
. capable not only of supporting a republic,
but almost wholly unfit for any degree of
y liberty. The enthusiasm of that nation,
during the present revolution, has bec% at
' tributed to a disinterested love of a free go
e vernment. This is a falfexonftruaion. Had
e Louis been dethroned to make way for a fa
vored usurper to the crown, the French na
i tion would Jtave adted the fame part
- Those turbulent pafGons by which they are
s charafterifed, when once let loose, may be
turned into any channel. They i?iay very
properly.be compared to a vail quantity of
, confined water, which, at whatever part of'
. the enclosure it breaks through, rufhefout
with equal impetuosity. But we are not
i obliged to reason, only from the nature of
>' the .cafe. There are many fafts which would
* prove the French peoph to be utterly defti
>. tute °f disinterested patriotism. Let us at
t tend but for a moment to the definition of
, Public virtue, and compare with it the de
s fertion of 15,000 of the army of the Rhine
1 day. In their armies, it is farid, put.
iifAjrtuc exists in its purity—their soldiers
• by the purest principles of re
puphcanifm. How does this assertion cor
rt(|bnd to the faft just stated ?—No < they
fofight at firft from the enthufiaftia ardor of
a heated brain. They have tontinued to d®
it tiom habit, from a love of conqlieft, and
a desire which victory naturally inspires.
Cut in adversity, which is the time to trr
men's souse, theyifail. If s Uch be the did
pohtion of the armies, what is the Internal
itate of the French people ? Every vice that
can disgrace liufnan nature, every brutal
paflion has there unbounded sway. The
people seem more like demons let loose from
hell, to devour themfelvej and men, than as
the votaries of virtuous liberty. This i« not
a ltrained reprefentarion. Imagination can.
not conceive th,* degree of degeneracy which
prevails-and is not this state of manners
perfectly natural ? Could' any thitig else be
expected from the passions of a Frenchman
let loose, after so many years of slavery,
eiptcially when such degeneracy and cor
ruption prevailed before ? A people whose
manners are hke theirs can rever support a
free government ; they are utterly destitute
of every neceflary qualification. They have .
no virtue, no knowledge, and what is worse,
they feetn studiously to avoid both'. - Were
it made a ijoeftion, whether the present Go
vernment of the United State? can W
lit, there might be, even with -respect to
them, a doubt of their qualifications. But
Franee never can be free. Perhaps, after
infinite miferiesand calamities, they 1 will be
obliged to seek that happiness from a matter
which, left to themselves, thev .vainly en
deavored to obtain. A French foil is too
luxuriant for the tree of liberty. It require,
a moderate foil and conitant cultivation.
it France ever becomes free, it will be
after the country has been filled with blood
a ter the paflions have become moderate
by constant adtion—and after Knowledge
and virtue have resulted from a mod dread
ful experience—or it will be when some
mighty legislature regulates the passions tod
changes their nature. The former is im.
latter can be effected, only in
a ongcourfeof ages by the influence ofa'o
iolute power.
AMERICANUS.
July 14 , 1 997 .
ASK fll n nn» mumwmmijmy
THE SALE OF NOTES,
Advertifcd tor the, firft cf September i, post,
poned until iurlher notice
john Coniie ly } Aufticneer.
Aug-.-io. > .
Notice.
SAMUEL RICHARDET, *
BEtJS Itjve to inform the Merchants and Hi*
friends, that lie will (hut up the City 'l'av- '
em and Exchange on Thvirfday next, during
the prevailing: disorder ; the body ef mer
chants having left freqtier.ti.isrthe .faroeforfcKe
days.
Aug. 30. dj,PjPIVNS YL VANI/i LFGISL ATURE.
%
HOUSE or RF.P! 5 . F.IHNTATIVES. |
August 28.
A number of members fufficierit to con- '
ftitute a quorum met purfuaiit to adiourn- !
toent. '
On motiop ordered, that Dr. Leib 'e a ,
committee to inform the senate, that the ]
house being met, are ready to" proceed to
tfuiinefs. ]
Oil motion ordered, that Meflrs. Leib, 1
Evans and J.ucas be a committee, to join a t
committee df the feitate, to wait on go- 1
vernor, to know <it what time it will be molt s
Convenient to him to make his conynunica- c
tions to the general assembly.
The committee appointed tft inform th» t
senate that the house are ready to proceed
to business, reported that they had perform
ed that service.
The clerk of the senate presented the
following extract from the journals of the .
"senate.
Resolved, that a committee be appointed, f<
to jain'a committee of the house of repre- ti
fentatives, to wait on the governor, to o
know at what time it will be convenient to a;
him to make his communications to the ge- tl
neral assembly, and
. Ordered, that Messrs. J. Wheeler, Ha- C ;
milton and Chapman be a committer for tr
that purpose.
The committee appointed to unite with L
a committee of t!ie senate, to wait on the T
governor, reported that they had performed a i:
that service, and received for answer that ha
the governor would meet both houses of V\
the legiflaturp in the senate chamber, to f u
dorrow-morning at 11 o'clock. . t ;,
Adjourned.
August 29. u
The house met pursuant to adjourment. n- c
On motion of Dr. Leib, seconded by ti
Mr. Leonard, w j
Resolved, that a committee be appointed tei
to report a bill making appropriation of wl
dollars, to be the a fl
relief of the indigent fufferers from the pre- ne
sent prevailing malignant fever.* ] ar
Ordered, that Messrs. Guj-ney, Ltib, so
Evans, Smilie, and Smith, be'a committee
for the pucpofe expressed in the said refo- Fr
iution. _ • th(
A petition from Thomas Rufton, stating 0 f
that he is jconfined in the jail of this city
for debt, and praying for liberation, was
read.
Mr. Morgan, a romniittee from the fe- p 0
nate, informed the house, that the senate titi
were ready to receive the house of reprefen- the
tatives in the senate chamber, to hear the (ho
governor's communications. m ;,
The house attended in the senate. cham- der
ber to hear the communications. ma
Having returned, ren
A' message from the governor was pre- the
fented by the secretary of the common- Th
wealth, informing the house that he nega- ift
tived the bill for regulating the general J ur
eleftion throughout the commonwealth ; c h a
the reasons of his veto accompanied the ko
message. me|
The clerk of the senate presented the R u
following extrafl from their journals. ofj
Resolved, that a-committee be appointed f e ] v
to join a committee of the house of rcpre- rf fr
fentatives, if ;hat house think proper to an J
appoint such committee, to consider and i the
report, whether it will be advifeable to con- qu ; t
alnue the session of the general assembly, p or;
under the present circumitances of alarm, p ru
refpedting the existence of a malignant and the
contagious fever in some parts of this city j n( . t
afld suburbs, and o £ j
Ordered, that Messrs. J. Wheelen, Coats °t S
and Brandon, be a committee for the said blifti
purpose. of r
The clerk of the senate presented the t ivc
following resolution : . " art[i .
That the general assembly will tre( j
this day adjourn fine die. t j
Oin motion of Mr. Evans, seconded by tra fl
Mr. Smilie, t^ei .
Resolved, That a committee be appoint
ed to confer with the committee of the fe- anc }'
nate upon the subjeCt of the adjournment f a tfo
of the lesriflature. r
o iig>ne
Ordered, Tiat Messrs. Frazer, Boude,
Baliot, Hoge> and Logan, be a commit- t' '
tee for the purpose. coun
On motion of Mr. Evans, seconded by mea f
Mr. Leib, *
Ordered, that Messrs. Ball, Evans, Leib, t hofc
Rea, and JSrailie, be a committee to take t ; lt .
into coniideration the governor's speech to ( , Tan(
the legislature, and report to the house an
arrangement of the sundry matters therein entlr ,
contained. 1 a|][ j
The committee appointed to confer with cont
the committee of the senate, upon the fob- Stanl
jest of adjournment, made report as sol- f -
Icws: - .
That they have had the conference di- cont ' J
which resulted in an agreement to t
recommend to the refpeftive houses the sol- ma j_ e
lowing resolution, viz,
Resolved, that the general assembly 'will
this day adjourn fine die. h •
And on motion, and by special order, I j ; r
the fame was read the second time, and on c
tbe queftion—will'the house agree to the the'c
fame ?■—it was determined in the affirmative. <!,
The committee appointed for the purpose, t ionec
reported a bill, entitled " An a£t to provide
for alleviating the distresses of the citizens
of Philadelphia and the suburbs thereof,' „
during the continuance of the oxiftiag ma
ligiiant and contagious disease," and on ™ one
motioy, 3'
Ordered, that the bill be read by special
ordsr a second time.
A motion was made by Dr. Leib, fe- ® ar
eonded by Mr. Gurney, to fill the blank
with 20,0 o dollkrs, which was, after some the' C
debate, withdrawn, and the blank was filled withoi
with 10,000 dollars. avrnur
The bill was agreed to, and ordered to faffm
be tranferibtd for a third reading. pofFefT
The committee appointed on the govern
oi's.fpeech,. made report, which was order- nut
ed to lie on the table. ' U p t^e
The bill making an appropriation for ! tured
'l' C Wfictinfe eitjzens of the }
KE. city and suburbs, was fetid a third fiir'e and '
• passed. l
j Adjourned to half pa ss three o'clock. 1
j , P ' M
on . he house met pursuant to adjournment.
Jin- .j Fiie secretary of the commonwealth pre
sented a message from the governor, accom
e a p nied by sundry documents referred to hi '
the his fpeeih. f
to Ihe clqrk of the senate presented the '
bill making appropriation for the relief of
' thc fuffering citizens, which the senate palf
n a ed without an amendment ; he presented,
go- likewise, a resolution, which the senate had
agreed to, for the distribution of the laws
ica- of the United States.
Thanks were returned to the speaker, and
tns the house adjourned fine die.
TOTWW-.. , " 6
Foreign Intelligence. °
the . — T
the . HAGUE, v July 4. _
It very thing is in motion here, in order to
ea, forward the embarkation of the troops def
re" t ' ne or our " av al expedition. A portion a
to of them will be embatked this day. Gener- -
to al Dauudels set out lafl night from here for ~ 1
je- the Texel. Besides the 20 battaliens of the Al
Batavian infantry, twelve %iadrons of
U- cavalry will be embarked. These p
•or troops have been reinforced with 2000
Adrian deserters, who arrived from
ti» JL.lIe, and were gra.ted to us by France. nf
j T h e major genera l Van Zuylanßoekop, and °
> . ( thf latter >s a German, who Z
„ a ? at d,lTerenc expeditions in the y,
0 Weft-Indies) set off from here this day, to 1
to superintend the embarkation of their refpec
tivr brigades.
The commandant of our garrison with r.
100 men of tlje ill regiment of cavalry will
goon board, which several other officers
>7 will do as volunteers. The fleet will set fail (i .
with the firL. fair wind, atid-admiralde Win- u',
•d ter has orders to attack aditii'ral Duncan .jn
at wherever he fha'l meet him. It is however
ie afTerted, that the expedition was destined i PU -!
e- neither against England, nor against Scot- [ ,
land, nor against Ireland, and were should C<
'» so many troops be lent to?
c It is certain that not >a single man of the 1 !
»- French troops has been embarked onboard | C °.
the transports; but the whole corps consist |
g of troops of the Batavian Republic. I get
y - l g ,
ls THORN, (South Prussia) July R. j £
It ip confirmed that the affair concerning
Poland i> now fettled between the three par- 'i"
c titionin£ po\Vers ; there is consequently not 1
- the least profpcCt that this state (Poland) j,
e (hould be re-established. For all the Ruffian ' W
ministers at foreign courts, have- received or- T e
ders from the cabinet of Peterfburgh to 1
make the ncceflarynotificat ons to the' difTe- y j
rent powers which gives fu fficient
the Poland is decidedly fettled.
- These notifications contain 6 notes. The 3
- Ift is a declaration dated St. PeterfburgH, 3te ,
1 June 3,'95, and signed by the Ruffian Vice
; chancellor Oftennan, the counts Befkorod
• ko and MarcofT, which contains the agree- f -1
ment between her majesty the empress of ,
- Russia, the Roman emperor and the king 08 '
o£ Prussia to divide Poland amongst them- ' Cm '
1 selves. In this note the boundaries of the grUt
■ refpe&ive portions of the empress of Russia,
' and the emperor of Germain' are fixed, and
1 the guarantee of the king of Prussia is re-; 0
quired, on condition of which the remaining WJS
1 portion is allotted and guaranteed to the pose
; 1 Prussian monarch. Ihe 2d note signed by part
the above three members of the Ruffian cab- "'he'
inet, and by count Tauenzien on the part t '^ n
of Prussia, containing a declaration dated °i i lt '
at St. Peterfburgh, Od. 24, '9; which cfta-
blifhes the boundaries of tKe Prussian portion Tie
of Poland, and the guarantee of the refpec- the n
tive acquisitions of both powers. The 7th ; ; hat 1
article of this note fays: " If, through ha- ijfek
tred excited by the present treaty of pa'rti- "
tion and iti results, one of the three con- (
trading powers (liould be attacked by ano- A
ther state, then shall the two others join the to 31
firft, atid support him with'all their force's, J°Hn
and all their resources, until the entire cef- J am e
fation of such an attack." The 3d note Patri
signed at Peterfburgh on the 26th January,
1 797> t>7 count Ofterman, count Befborgd- Barb;
ko and prinde Kurackirt on one fide, and by Suf r
count Tauenziea on the other, recitfi the Lydil
measures taken for discharging the national
debt of'the ex-kingdom of Poland, and
those of ex-k:ng Stanislaus Aifguftus. By Nil
the 6th article, the contracting powers Ms
grant an annual pension-os 200,000 ducats, Kii
to the latter; by the 7th art. the free and Hi
entire erljoyment of all his private property Jo(
and estates, is fe'cured to him. The 4th 1
contains the a£t of resignation of the ex-king 1
Stan(laUß, dated Grodno, Nov. 2j, '9c j
and signed by the king and his cabinet secre
tary, prince Kolillfk Puyna. The sth
! contains the corresponding declaration of . 1
the three concerned Courts wherein they ,
make known to the different powers of Eu- 1
rupe, the division of Poland and its incorpor- (
ation with their refpeftive monarchies, and '
their new titles they have respectively assume- Th;
ly, in consequence of the new acquifltions, ,°nc W
&c. The 6th note fixes the boundaries of
the palatinate of Cracow, as agreed on by
the courts of Vienna and' Berlin, an 4 func
tioned by the late empress. Au
VIENNA, July 5. Wo
On Monday nine wagyons loaded with rea s e ?
money, set off under a strong efcort_/ar Ila- pr
ly. ' memb'
► from \
NURENBERG, July 7. , not^br
Early yeftertlay morning,'the Prufliam being „ We
previously reinforced with 400 men, two ou f"
pieces of cannon from Anfpach,advanced against ' e s s i ni
the Cafrtne st St. John, and took the fame of the
without firing a gun, as they had fectired all the the co
avrnues befnr e 'he opening of the citv gates,and
foffered nobody to pass, until they' llad taken Totil
pofiefnon t;f the Cifrene. The hav
ing nofuccours tncxpftf out of ihe city, fur- \ a , rt
rendered, iind were futtjfred to march out, with- del P
out being made prifoneis, but obliged to give '
up their arms 10 the Prufiians. The Utter cap- Fort, 1
tured ia the fame mjnncr the Bear-Fort. ' Auj
the j Ihe PiulTifins'do nf,t Intend to ftecnpy th'ol
and : pops, Imt fjjjpy will not fufFerany for.eipn (i«
penal) troops there, firct the abuve fcrtiieatioi
6. *nd>arrack» are situated in the territory whir
hii Pruifian mjjrily claims as iielongiijp; of rifct
to him. -
ient.
? re ". PyRMONT, J\,!v M .
om- His Majefly, the kinjr of Pr'nffia, is PUI here
3 m and it appears, that the use of thii h s rh is l,cne
ncial to his health.
'J. Xf)c@aictt7.
S PHIL A ~D'E LPHI A ,
aws THURSDAY EVENING, A ugv Jf s l.
and PRICED O I*. ST O C
Philadelphia, nth Auf. I 707.
6 Per Cent. Ifft .
i pcrC<iit. 10 y 4
Deferrtd 6 per Cent. ' i^/4
BANK United Stat?», 17 per ct. advance,
North America, 46 do.
'to ' a^urallCo Co. N. A fliarci 40 do.
I f Pennfvlvania, par
! e| - COURSE OF EXCHANGE. /
ion gn London, at 30 days par
er- at 60 day» 65
for —at 90 day#
he Amitcrd.im, per guilder 4Q
'of 4X
Puttier particulars of the datn&ge occciftoned
by the heavy rains of lafl -week.
' m It is agreed to have been the heaviest fall
"*j °f rain almost ever remembered in this
j 1 neighbourhood—carrying away the mili
-10 datjt of John Shoemaker, near the Old
' c i ork road, and entirely sweeping away the
( ° bridge on the said road, just below his mill,
:c " —wa/hing the creek to luch a depth at tire
th v' Ual P liice fording, as to render a paf
j luge imprafticable without going a conii.
1 derable distance down the creek. It.also'
threw down the mill-dam of col. Miles's
flitting mill, and destroyed the bridge near
" his fdat, bclideS other conliderable damage.
111 These loffe6 i>re, .however, trifling," in com-, i
'd pa . ri ' on w ' th tllat of Oliver \\ jiion and
" i wife, who to their great alfli ;u'on, have
1j ■ ' 3een ; 1 ? ereft o{ an only son, au adive and
' promiling lad about tx years of age : lie
j was the morning after the rain, jiffilting in !
d Colleain S t ' lc ral ' s '
1 carried away by the flood ; ii. doing which
j getting his clothes wet, he was desired to
| g to the house to get forne dry ones, with
; which it was thought he had complied ;
bnt at noon the family were much Alarmed
£on his being miffing :—a diligent search
through the neighbourhood now took place,
but 110 discovery made till about fun-down,
' _ when, to the inexpreflible grief of his pa
' rents, his body was found in a deep hole
just below the new stone bridge, (on the
old York road above Miles Town) which
t sustained considerable damage by the foun
dation being undermined and part of the
arch fallen in. It is supposed the unfortun
ate lad never rose, as his body was found
' under a rock in the cavity : this is the
more probable, as two men were working
at a foiall diitance on the other fide the
r bridge, and within hearing, ljvithout the ,
' li«it knowledge of this awful event. His
» remains were interred in Friends' burying
[ ground, at Abington, on the 28th inft. 1
attended by a Very numerous body of friends '
j and weeping relatives.
' <
" On Saturday lift, the frigate United States '
" was hove down at Smith'* wharf, .'or (he pur
' pose of replacing the lower rudder brace, and
part of the talle keel, which were carried away
. when the (hip went off the ftockii: Thit opera
tion was performed, and the (hip righted with
out any accident occurring. She ij to be an- *
chortd in the cove, where the rigging, &c. WiiT "
be completed with the greatcft expedition.— '
ihe marines are nearly all eniilltefT, and from s
! the r'tiTrbrr of fral'nen that off-r, it is fitopofed
: that her'cornplement could be made'up in two
l^eeks.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT.
Admitted imce lafl report, &om 30th
to 31 ft, morning:— ~
John-Corris, Mr. Bjrffet's, Penn-ftreet S
James Sanipfon, Mr. Furlow's, Mead-alley
Patrick M*Dowell, Richard Smith's, Se
cond-llrect
Barbar.-,, ] 2 Negro girls belonging to 1
Sui niw.j M'Cleed, South
Lydi* M'lienzie, Mr. Gillou's, South,
near Front-street.
DISCHARGED.
Nicholas Doyle, ' admitted 21ft
Mary Cape, 36th
Kitty Steward, 2 9 th v
Hugh M'Dowel, :. v 22 d
Joshua Bartley f 21ft
N DI'ED—NONE.
Remaining last report 19
Admitted 6
25
Difchjirged j
# 6t
Remain in_ hospital 20
Convalescents c
Sick f|
Three of which v 4r« doubtful cases, and
one likely to die.
Stephen Gerard,
Caleb Lown es, 71
John Connelly.
Aurtft 3 iil.
We are happy in being abfif to jpform our
readers, that there is byt ill of
the prevailing fever at Kenlington—He is a
member, of the late Mr. Bowers' family, Btl
from whose lioufc the difeafe,,as yet, has
not, been propagated in a fuigle instance.
We are infurmed that thc health-officc in
Southwark is fliut up, it being ftiund an use- 10
less institution, owing to the general health
of the inhabitants, and the total absence of
the contagious difeafc from that quarter.
Total of all the burials in thefeveral grave
yards of the city and liberties of Phila
delphia, aj taken from the books kept
by clergymen, sextons, &c.
For the lajl 24 Ijc/urs—S adults, 6 children.
August 30,
:hofe j Mr. FfcNNO,
tiors ' ?' nce lhe Boir 4 of Health have ?Sj>u.
hich ' " e different* aroongft the Medical Faci
-ight; as c ' le r^f°n for discontinuing their dai
i raports." I request penniffion through tl
i medium of your.paper to afTure the publ
that no difference of opinion does or has e:
iere, ifted fufficient to juftify such a measure ;
cne " measure that will, if not remedied, invei
the inhabitants of this City in a state of u:
and suspense, and by lulling to
. fatal security give opportunity io the treac]
: erous foe to plant his banners in the cent
; of our city,
Griater harmony orconcurrence in opin
on among thePhyficians wha
situations have afforded them opportunity
of feeing the difeafc in its different stage:
than hai and does exist at present.
the Board of Health has not receive
regular retu.ns from those phvficians mo
ace. engaged in practice, the fault is ,with then
selves, for neglecting or omitting to appqir
a person to ca" on those Physicians at regi
lar and stated hours for them. It coul
not surely be expefted that Phyfieians hur
ried and fatigued with business should trav<
more than a mile unsheltered from the burn
5 ln g ra y ß °f a Meridian Sun to deliver in
, sick roll when it was the bufujefs as well a
■ the duty of the Board to fend for it.
ied citizens may be able to judg
how far»there has been occasion for their a
all ' ar, "> an d that they may no longer be millei
bia the ignorant, tffc deluded or the defio- n
i U . mg I earnestly request you to publish th.
•Id enclosed lift, which contains the names o
lie '' the persons, with a 'contagions fever
ill, that havd come under my. notice or that o
he my medical acquaintance on wbofecommuni
if- eations I can rely, fact the 25th .of July,
ii. to the present evening August 30th.
so The names of those who have died are in
j's eluded in brackets, and those that w*re as.
ar fe&ed with, black voniitting have an afterifh
e prefixed.
n-J ' expeft to be able to furnifh you to-mor
ld 1 row or next day with the cases that have oc
,e curred since the 25th inft. And if you
,d wIU undertake to publish these, I will en
ie deavour to furnifh you with all the cases that
in j occur from day ta day in the Southern quar
,e ter of the city.
jj ,1 have at this time under my care, fifteen
0 cases of contagious sever—seven of which
h are dangerously ill—eight in a favourable
; way—two died to day, and two were sent
j to the Hospital.
h J am, with sentiments of'fincere refpeft,
Your most obedient servant,
WILLIAM CURRIEt
i_ Wednesday evening, August 30.
e P. S. I have just been informed by a
c gentleman of unquestionable veracity, that
, theCommitteehas said, the Board of Health
_ intend to invite the citizens to return from
s the country, and that Dr. Shippen who left
the City to day asserted just before he went
j off, that there i; no contagious disease in
. the City, but was a mere South Sea
r bubble.
1 It is also reported that a similar opinion
i has been delivered to the Board of Health,
, by Meffra. Girard and Lownes. I would
p fain hope for the fake of my fellow citizens,
' as well at for the fake of the understandings
, of those gentlemen, they have not commit
ted such an error, for none but men insane
can possibly refill the torrent of 1 evidence to
the contrary.
A Lift of the names of all tfje pcrfons. affeOed
•with Trlhn< Fever,/trice the 25th of July,
to the 2 Cth of Augvfl.
July
2 5 th James Mu'ford, pilot of the Aretbufa.
27th (Mr. Latimer's man).
29th G. Latimer, Esq. Pine below Penn
ftreet.
Nicholas Major, mate of the brig Iris,
Ruffel's wharf.
* (James FloodJ cook do.
Samuel Saunders, Lloyd's ftort, near
Walnut-street.
30th Two more of the crew of the brig Iris.
&3lftOne do. fame crew.
(Mrs. Smith) Penn, half a square be
low Pine»ftreet.
ugujl
M (Mr. N. Lewis) store abo*e Pine
% street.
Capt. Holland's boy, on board the
ship Thomas, Rufiel's wharf.
James Train, Mr. Rufiel's clerk.
*(Mr. Hall) clerk in Mr; Nixon's I
store, above Pice-street.
3d Jolxn Larch urn, back of -Smith's
store, Pine near Pe.nn-ftreet.
(Mr. Smith's brother) Pine, near
Pemi-ftreet.
(2 women, 1 died) at Mr. Latimer's.
* (Mr. Senate) mate of a vessel from
St. Thomas's.
Mr. M'Elwee, Second, below Plumb- 1
street. J
6th (Larcbum's child). v 1
Arthur Mullen, corner of Front and
Pine-street.
(Wildes) corner ( f Front and Pine
ftreets.
( Mrs. Fcrgufon ) below Pine in Front- 1
street.
7.th Mrs. R.Lewis, Sficond, below South
ftreet. r
* ( Mrs. Bell) Germyn-ftreet. j
*(Jenpy at Plankinhorne's) Penn;-' fl
below Pine-street. <-■
( RicbardP. Smith) Penn,near South- '?
street. 1 . ' *!
BtU (Mr. James Campbell) Pine and j
Front-flrcets.
(Mr. Conrad's boy) Catharine and ir
Front-streets. tl
loth Mr. J. Ruflel's girl, Penn, below 131
Piile-ftvect. , u
Daniel Shute, Penn, near South- . v ,
street. =
Mr. Tatem, Union," above Third
ftreet. ' ' .
James.Lloyd, Uriioa-ftyetft.
Portugueze sailor, Penn, helow South
street. { 4<
Mr. Jvl'Clure, Froivt, mar Lombard
flreet-, ■ ■ '•• •, '
,«i " F ™ [ -
& F S£!r"' Pt "°' " t,rW *
the 14th Mr. Brown, Pine and Front-ftrects.
blic Houfekefcper, do.
ex- Robert! Wharton; Esq. Third, above
! a L 'Jiop-ftreet.
»lve Mr. Bridgets fon,Front,below Lcfe.
Un " oard-ftreet. ,
° a Capt. Brevor, Pine-ftrcet wharf, 00
lc "- lhijj board. £
"t'r *{John Read) schooner along fide
the ship Hind.
' n [ Lalor, Water, above Spruce
'oie ftrect.
t ,es Mr. Ledum, Southwark.
r«, Edward Hughes, CathariWftreet.
Mr. Ilobefon's cfcrk, near Spruce
»ed Street. * *
10ft *( William Pmkerton) Front, above
?m - Spruce-street.
tint- 14th Capt. Egger, Almond Street.
£«- *( James M'lntofh, Mead Alley,
uld John Flower, Water and Almond,
ur- 15th Thomas Smith,
ivel Richard Fergufon, both in Penn, be.
rn " low Pine Street.
1 John Davis, 2d below Pine Street.
1 as Robert Tittermary, Almond Street.
(Mr. Latimer's woman's daughter,)
ige Param's Alley, Sauthwark.
a- Mr. Morris,
led Capt. Williamfon, Front near South .
?n- street.
he Mrs. Me. Clure, Penn near South ft.
Mr. Marshal's girl, front near Lorn
er, bard Street,
of Mr. Mitchell, Water above Pine ft.
m- Allen Appovven, Full j-'s alley.
y > Mr. i ateiii s brother, Union llreet.
a6th. Thoe. Cuth'oert'» son, .2d near South
in- street.
as- (Anthony's do. Penn, nea r
Lombaid street.
James Hood, .do.
>r- Capt. Glenn's child, Almcnd near
>c- Second street.
au Mr. James Fergufon, Penn street.
n- Miss BetfeyMaris, Penn ftteet.
at 17th Mrs. Miller, Penn Street.
ir " B "J ts , Front near South street..
1 homas Stewart, Front near South
;n street.
:h 18th Capt. Flemmingfon, Catharine near
It 3 ftreet.
it Thomas Larkam, Front near Almond
street.
I, 19th. Messrs. Eaton and Johnson.
Capt. Boyes, Front Street.
John Fergufon, Penn street.
2®th Mr. FergufonV two servants, Penn
a street. ,
't *(2 servants at Mr. M'Clures)
n Rice, Almond ftteet.
n aift Nancy Rice, do.
t Miss B. Dolby, Penn street.
t Mrs. Tillis's black girl, do.
1 Mr. Caleb Alh, Christian street."
a James Woods, Lombard near Cxth
street.
1 Mr. Willis, Walnut near Front street.
, 22d Mrs. Tatem, Penn Street.
1 Allen Brown, Almond and second
> Streets.
5 Eckhart, Catharine street.
(two perfuns in Mr. Boyfon's,) Se
: cond below Pine street.
> Mr. M'Phale, and son, and
Mr. Davi'dfon, 3d above Union.
2 more servants at M'Clures.
Strangers, in Bringhurft's alley and
> Union street.
Mrs. Warren, Lombard nnd Perm
street.
Mr. Naper's boy-
Nancy Blaek near North's stables.
(Samuel, at Mr. Nbrth's)
Nieholfbfl, Plumb street.
> 23d * (David B'owen,).. Spruce near 2d
Street.
(Mr. AKller,) Penn street.V
24th Mrs. Brown, Mrs. Cummins and son,
near Penn street.
*(Mrs. Bentlcy)
(her Son) and daughter, South street.
Mr- Fergufon's man, Plumb street,
25th William Cummins.
The cases which have occurred -since the •
25th, I purpose furuifhing to-morrow or
next day.
According to the accounts brought by
the mail of this day) the alarm refpe&ing
the fever at Providence, has subsided.
V
" A Native American," to-morrow.
By this duty's Mai). ,
BALTIMORE* August 28.
Wind, weather and tide permitting, «the
United States' frigate Constellation
will be launched on Tburfday, the 7th of
.September. next ensuing, at 8 o'clock in the
morning.
DAVID STODDER.
Navy Yard, Aug. 48.
4
, NORFOLK, Anguft 24,
Extraft cf a letter front Commodore Barney li
bis friend in this to<wn, dated Medusa, al Sea,
-dugujt 21D, 1797.
" After seven rponths blockade by the ene
' my, I hive at ength escaped their vigilant e,
moment they reduced the number of their
ships t<< watch my movements (from twelve,
eight, fix, *nd ifati! within the(e few days, five
ihip» to two—that U one ftiip of the Ijtve and a
fflgUte) I was determined to push out \Vith my
two frigatei, which I did yesterday, although,
I raw them both to the fotyhward of me ; the
winds were light, but we have loft fight of them
in the ni;;ht. So ends a blockade which h«coft
the enemy upwards of dollars, and h?.s
been of no real injury te France. I hope soon
to give you a good account of ourfdves ; and
was kn e<joal terms with them in point of force,
theywould have little.to bo»ft of."
Red Port Wine.
juU arrived, by the brig Iris, capt, Rhodes, frcm
Opcrto,
Red Port Wine in pipes, hhtfi. and quarter calks*
6c cwt. Cork, for sale by ' *
Philips, Cramor.d, & Cc.
■ •Juffai. ■ _ jJust pub! i flied,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores H. & P.
Rice, No. 50,, Market-street; J. Ormrod,
No. <|j, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
»orner wf Chefnut and Sffcond-ftreets,
An accurate S|ltem of Surveyings
IN WHICH IS CONTAINPD,
' I. Decimal fraiflions, in, a plain,
knd eal'y manner. *
j. The extrattion of the square root.
trigonometry, rectangular and ol>-
4. An fx let method to cast up the contents
of lands.
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the u'fe
offcale and compallc-s, on a table of logarithms.
l"n which !s given some account of the variation
of the needle/and tly causes of its attraction.
By SAMUEL MOORE.'
Anciift 1. jawiw
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrail of an passed by the Legislature of
the ltate of Maryland on the 29th December,
1 791, entitled, " An ail for ereifting a bridge
tiver Potowmac river.
'• And be it enadetl, that the said direflors or
any two «f them ihall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be nsceffary for carrying on the building of laid
bridge; and after giving three months public
notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the direc
tors to fu«.for and r*cover in the nam® of the
comj unpaid requitition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time'the fame ihould have
been jjaid : And the neglcfl or refufal to p'ay any
such requisition after public notice (hall have
been given at leafl for three months in all the
newfpapershciein before enumerated, (hall have
the effedl to forfeit all preceding payments made
on th« (hare or aares so neglected or relufed to
paid t'> the ufc and benefit of the company."
mation of iuch of the flocftiolders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—theyaieas follow: On the ift November,!
179j» *0 dollars, on the loth May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the joth July,
Ine ift September, 1796, 40 doll.rs, and on the
lft November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after'the expiration of t"he time |
limited for t,he continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
intorigidand completeeffeft against all delin
quents.
By order of theDire£lorj,
WALTER SMITH, Tnafurn.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. t.m'^m
juftK eceived,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxtsof Spices, consisting of
"Nutmegs, Glovesand uace
For sale by
IVILLINGS (£? FRANCIS, M
Penn. street.
May 3® ' dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
. No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING -busied for fom« time past in prepara
tions for removing into his profent house, has
been under thcnccfcflityof poltponinguntil this day
informingthegentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on
terms that he trusts will tntitlehim to the like
freence he has experienced for leveral years past.
'Catalogacs, combining the molt varied colUc
tion ever imported i<ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June »7- Jaw 6w
City CommiJJioners' Office,
June it, 1797.
IN putfuance of an ordinance from the fele<sl
and common councils, palled the zid day of
May lafl, appointing the city commiflioncrs,
and prescribing their duties, feiflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEKEBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftritfls,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commiflioners, whoistobe individually
responsible for the cleaulinefs of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driilridt No. 1. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Sprijce-ftreet, un
der the fuperiutendence of Nathan Boys.
1. From the north fide of Spruce-fireet, to
the north f(de of Walnut-street, under the super-
Intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the,north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-flreet, under the superintendence of
Jol'eph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry Tlreet to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in cotwnon.
£s* A stated meeting of the city commiflion
crs is held at the Old Court House, in High
flreg;, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
July 14. eoim
Stands for Draymen, £sV.
In purjuanct of an Ordinance from theSelefi and
Common Councils,bearing date the lid day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City Comrtiiffionerj, &e. Seel, the I ;th.
'"TTIE following places are fixed upon by the
A said City Commiflioncrs for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-ftreft, on
both fides. .
Saflafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward of .Front-street, on the no. th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south (ide (rem Front to
Third-street.
Front-street, east fide from Vine-street to
Elrrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite Horfe al
ley to Hamilton's eaft fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftrect from Pine, to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
fide. . '
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South ftrcets, east of I roKt
flreef, south Me.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone crofliugs, fide, eppofite Ueorge
Orklev's.
Second-ftrect, between SalTafras and Vine
flre«ts, weft fide. ,
Fifth-fti'cct, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Saflafras-ftrect, from Third to Fourth-ftrcet,
NVdray or horse to flarid within ten feet ps
"IFjfos FOR HACKNEY COACHES..
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to' Fifth
" r pifth-ftrret, hctween Che fruit and Walnut
streets, welt. ....
Branch-street, north ficte,.between i lnrd and
Fourth streets.
July U. jnwSjfim
A Literary Treat.
JuJi publ'ijhed, handfomsly printed on writing
paper i price I dollar >
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
Work, entitled
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
a fc-qucl to the hiltory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—-In aferiesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of t\* o letters, alluding to recent political
ti»anfa&ioru. in
The following extrail from the Clavls Allegorica,
ihews the principal chara&ers that are introduced:
John' Bull, the Kingdom of England
His Mother, the Church ps *
His Wife, the Parliament
HisSifler Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His Miilrefi», the Old Constitution
His new Wife, the National Representation
JLord Strut, the Kingdom of Sp;un
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Ffcireftcrs, the United States of Amerit a
Robert Lumber, Ntw-Hamplhire
John Codline, Maflachufetts
Humphrey Plowshare, Conne&icut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Illand
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Cajfar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Cafliniar, Delaware i
Walter Pipe wood, Virginia
His Grandlon, George Washington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
.£s* This popular and entertainingfatirical hUlo
ry of Amarica is attributed to the Rev. Dr Bel
knap. Jt has a great fliare of originality and a
boHnds with genuine hymour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chara&erifes those
late political tranfa£ions which have caused so
much uceafincfs in America. j
Sold Uy H. and P. RICE, BookfeUer, No. 16,
South Second Stieet, i\nd No. 50, Marke* ftjeet,
June 26. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latcft London and Dublin Edition!.
H. Iff P. RICE, BookfeUer s,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the lite arriyals Irom
LoVidon and Dutjlin, their importa
tion, confiding of 2 variety of the lateA and mod
approved I aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forma the mod colle&ion ev
er offered for fa!e in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to noticy, that from thei nature of thgir
connexions in Dunlin, arc enabled to felllrilh
editions (a» they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latelt
publications.
Vefcy, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, a *w».
Peake's Cafe's at Nisi Prills ; Ridgeway's Reyorti
in the timfc of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer's Procters
Pra&ice in the Ecclefiadieal Courts; Barton's
Trtatife on a Suit tn Equity; Tidd's Praflice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Actions, x
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, It vols. London edi
tion.
■H. and P. Riei erpefl ta receive by the fird ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and pad's Reports, the id port of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Iy now in the press, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZfcCHA
riah Poulson, jun. No. go, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propofali, until the
work is ready for the fubfcribcrt.
July 18. • jawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Strcet,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflorted, very IoW on
Ihort credit. >
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet. • •
Muguff i. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Shtpperfburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has for fometimr sub
sisted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dillblved ; but, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je<st from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necefiary. Any gentleman vTio wilhe* tp i»c
morr: circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to ,W. Geer may hive
••he perusal ®f M. Slouch's'lottcr, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or riot W.
Geer is not perfeAly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in fhfc profecutJon of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, V? illiam Geer, in xonjuntftion with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render tfce paflage fafe and commodious, inform
those wno wiih to patronise and encourage the
undertaking, that- they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lane after, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippeniburg. The fare as hitherto
.eftablilhcd.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will dart every Wednesday from the house
of Samtiel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland tounfy., every- Thursday,
and return from thcoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that pafiengcrs destined for
Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancafler. Jan. 27, 1797^.
N. B. Tkis Line of flartrf from the
hpufe of William Ferroc, in Lancaster, on every
TuCfday ai'd Saturday moaning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel lildtir in Harrilburg every Wednes
day morn/ing, on file fame evening arrives at Pa
rrirk Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame rcutic« daily pin its tour from Philadel
phia. f mwf
City of VYafliington.
SCHE M E
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
1 For the Improvement of the FeJerat City.
A magnificenti'fwelling-houfe 20,000 dollars,
& cash ?o,oo<?, ure 50,000
1 ditto Ljf,ooo & cast 45,00«> 40,00 c
1 ditto r5,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
t ditto 10,009 & cath 10,000 10,000
1 dirto
1 ditto 5,000 & carti 5,000 10,000
1 ca(h prize of 10, coo
1 do. 5,000 each, a/« • io,oiki
10 do. • 1,900 - - 10,00 c
ig do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
»oo do. 50 - * 10,000
4<?o do. »5 - - 10,000
t.ooo do. ao - ao,ooo
15,00s do. 10 - 150,000
'6,759 Prizes.
33,*6 i Rlanka.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight l ftollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tidtets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and thre 30,000 the last
but one :
And fecuring payment in cither
mon?y or prizes, in ten days drawing, will
be received sot any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimcn as
the private buildings to be ertfled in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful deGgns arc already
ieleited for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawingsitispropofed
two centre and 'our corner beildings.as soon aspof.
fible after this lottery is fold, and to canvey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventur«rs, in
thi maimer described in the fchcme for the Hotel.
Lottery. A nett deduAion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neccffary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the furpfus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerlity, to
be erefled within fhu city of Washington.
The real fecuritiefgiven for the paymant of the
Brizes, are hel4 by t>e President and two Direct
ors of the fiapk of Columbif, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lattery.
SAMUEL JiLODOET.
,§, Tieketsruay be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilrr.an, Boston ; of John Hspkins, Richmond j
and of Rickard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Frem tie Otfego Herat J.
CAUTION.
WHERKAS a combination of men in this
county hare undertaken to enrich thsm
felves,by fabricating titles to fundr/ valuable trails
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
trails of lsnd large sums of money have been paid
to those fraudulent pen, by innocent purchasers •
It is therefore just that public information should
be given, to the end, that the injured may feck rc
drefs wliile the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have difcovered are Tru
man Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several others who go under fi&itious names. It is
supposed that the lauds offered fcr sale on those fa
bricated titles, are at lea!l worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we have afiual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and la, Otfegß patent,
thousand acres each, the aflual property of William
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chauir.ot)t, row of Paris, and James Ayenll
and othecs, ot this State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wclis and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.—The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing those lands, as also to de
prive those men in future from impoGng on indivi
duafs, which their education and address have en
abled them to do heretofore. kas been
a fhopkeeptr of some note in this country!
The following affidavits will set in a clear point
of viewtht wicktdnefs of those men,which(wh«n
the public have perufrd, will induce them to ex
cule the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 18th, 1797.
1 Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Trunnn Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to thera, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
was the property of William T, Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and otilers; and further the said Joseph
and Truman did jierfuade irn* to do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the it tli day
of November, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the nami of
Pardon Starks to that deed waa a fictitious name,
thtre being no such perlon there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before
me, Thomas Kelty, the fubfenber to the above af
fidavit, and made l'olemfi oath tliat it contains noth
ing tut the truth.
KLIHU PHINNEY, Jufticc of the Peace.
On the iiJth July, 1797, came before me Jacob
; Kibby, a perlon by known and worthy of
good credit, who on his solemn oath did fay, that
two of the parties abovemerttioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, some tjme in the
winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a share of the profits, on the
'sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and that they
made application several times for the fame purpo'e,
which fervicss this deponent as often refufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
could do no such thing ; which daring attempt on
thisd«p«nent's integrity he had related among his
friends several times, previous to making this affi
davit. • JACOB KIBBEY.
Sworn before me,
ELIHU FHINNEY, Justice of the Peace. •
Aug. 3. iaw4w.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED fVom the service of the fubferiber,
1 on the 19th mftant, a negro man by the
name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high; by trade
a carpenter, and is a very lively brifli work
. man. His countenance is very good —When
spoken to, he converles eaie aftd confi
dence, r.nd is pretty sagacious. I purchased
the 1 faidfeliovv of Mr.DuUney Minor, in whose
name be has been .adver'tifed in the Richmond
newspapers. During his last runaway trip (last
summer ) he was employed a considerable length
of time, by some person near Dumfries, from
which circumftanee, I conjecture, he has taken
another notheni route 1 forewarn! all persons
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, and nrfaftersof vcfTds and others, from
carrying him out of this state. above re
ward will be given if he is t«ken within forty
miles of this city; and an additional sum, in
proportion to the distance he may he brought,
or the trouble and the apprehender may
be at, in brincing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His opparclwas of the usual negro kind,
but he hat! more cloaths than is cuftom'ary for
them to poJTcls.
A.D,
Richmend, June it, 1797.
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship A&ive, Capt.
Hamburgh,
20 baks white Ruflia clean Hemp
: 2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale by »
Thomas Herman Letffir,-
North FiOh street, No. 34.
Tune €
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second llreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 19th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rise-in propor
tion ns the driwinff advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the last day ol
drawing.
Check Books kept lor examination end register
ing, in the Canal, No.a, City of Waldington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries
Also, tickets forfale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteris», which will begin
drawing in the course of the rummer.
The bufinefs'of a Broker in all kind» of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c-&c. tranfa&ed with the
utmost attention.
June 2 tu&f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & £o.
No 40 South Second street,
[[Price 31 Cents]'
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskinj.
May 15 $
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W.Young, Bookfoller, No. 5», South Sc
cond-llreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquifc
al of Francis Hopkinfen, Judge of the Court ef
Admiralty, and John Nicholfori, Comptroller Gen
era!—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, j
dollars. .
W. Young has for sale, a gerleral afTortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the paclc
ege, well afiorted, and entitled to the drawback if
axpcjrted. July 7 —*
SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Minitter Pleni
potentiary of hidHitannic Majesty, General A gent
lor affixing Briiifh creditors, and iucli particular a
ger.ts a*s they may Iperially authorize, in prosecuting
their claims before the c® , nßmiflioners for carrying in
to effect the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Cotb
merct and Navigation between his Britannic AUjefly and
the United Stages of America, hereby gives notice that
he has opened his office at his house the Couth east
corner qf Chefnut and fifth Itreets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or ioftru&ions
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the far»e agree
ably (o the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And a* it will be for the interest of all coacerned,
that the several claims be so stated, and fupport
td, as to prevent the delay whiah would arise from
the necellity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materiais,from persons residing at a ditlance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
dirc&ion chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to set forth—-
1 ft. The proper dcfcription and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, «nd original debtor,vrefpe£i
ively.
ad. The date andnature of the original contrail or
j debt.
1 3d. When, in wbat manner, and to what extent,
: the creditor or claimant Wis prevented or impeded,
I by the provision, operation or defeft of law, the
; decifront and pra£tice of courts, or restraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
question*
4th. The loss and damage incurred or sustained.
in j:oiJequence of such impediments, whether ihe
fame uhay have arisen from the infolvenev, change of
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufes impairing
the value and security of the deftt, which would not
have so operated it such impediments had notexifted.
And sth The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that 44 by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, theereditor cannot now obtain and a&ualljr
ha?e and receive full and adequate com pen fa tion" tor
the lodes and damages so fuflaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
ged tint the fevcral claims ought to be accompanied
and fup'ported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as toiheexiflence
of the debts claimed, and such other circumitances
as may be within their own knowledge refp&tfvely.
And wherever the claimants in dating the nature of
their evidence (which mutt in every tnftance be the
beftot which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
iefej to thetellifcnony of witneffei, it will be proper
to appnfe the general agent oi the names and places
of rcfidence of such witncffeiand the faftsto be clta
blifhcd by their testimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
PhtlydelrViia. June Bih, 1797. d
For Sale,
That will known place, called Fjndegkift's
HRHY,
ON Nefhammy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on thfe New York poll road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premil'es are a laYge two fiery Hone house occu
pied asatvern, and a good one ftorv ftotie kit
•chen, a large frame stable with a good threshing
floor, and lomc out buildings—also a well of
water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a nvjft elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny toitijunflion wijh the Delawart, and thence
scrofs to the Jersey fliore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Stibfcriber,
i MORDECAI LEWIS.
\'av 14- atawtf.
' COLUMBIA HOUBE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBUIDGE with m«ch pleaf
ureand rafpeCt, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years residence is
Philadelphia ; and ifrures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
ichool, fhc has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpectiveprofefiionj.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- jlmftf
The fituat'.on is perfeAly healthy'; and made
more agreeable by an .extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
fujl Published, ■
And to be,had of Mcffrs. Dofefon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Boolcfellers in the
city,price one dollar, twinty-fiye cents,in Hoards,
' New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, h. e.
June 30. ■ - "bt
No. 183.
Dijlriff of Pcifnfylvanut, to uiit :
l. s. P*- IT RBMIMBERED, that on the
J.J fifteenth day of June, in the twenty
firft year of the Independence of the United
States cf America, Jamis Woodhouse, of
the said dil'ritSl, hath depoEted in this office the
title of a book, the right whereof he claims as
authoY, in the words following, to wit :
" The Young Chemist's Pocket Companion,
" being apefcription of a Portable Laboratory,
" containing a Philosophical apparatus, and a
" number of Chemical Agents, by which
" any petfon may perform in endless variety of
" amufmgand inftru£ling Experiments, design
" ed for the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chffmiftry in th« United States of
" America. Bj*Ja»es Wqgdhousb, M. D.
" Profelfor of Chetriftry, in the University of
" Pernifylvania, President of the Chemical So
"cietyof Philadelphia, &c.
" At present everything that is notdenomi
" Jiated Chernifiry, is but a firtall part of a ■fy£»
" tem of natural knowledge.
Pr'teftly on Air "
In conformity to the a<3 of the Congress of thrf
United States, intituled, " An ail for the encour
agement of Learning, by feeuringthe copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of fuchcopies, duripg the times there*
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clfrkof th«!
Diftrnfl of Pennsylvania.
July 18. d^t —wstf
No. 188.
D)JlriSl of Pennsylvania, to tvst :
(i *) U E * * REMEMBERED, that on the
±J twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dif
tridl,hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit £-«-
" Observations on certain documents contained
" in Ho. V. and VI. of "The History of the Uni
t" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secreury of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf."
In conformity torhe a<St of the Congress cf tht
Ucited States, " Au for the encour
agement of lending, by fectiring the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors an<f propri
etors of such copies, during the times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Cltrk of the Dijlrift of PennfyUnanla,
July *7- VV4W v.
Public N&ice is hereby given,
HTHATat June term, 1797, a >»tition wa*
X prel'ented to the Court of Common Fleas,
held at York Town, in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the instance ef James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Worrifon,
James Morrifon, and John Sample, executor*
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, fur fix hundred
acres of Land, situate in Menallen
townlhip, in the county of York :—All per
sons who have any objections to make to the
je<3 of the fiid petition are desired to attend at
tiic Court Koul'e, in the town ($f York, 00 the
jth day of September next, otherwise th* loft
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
July 18. e»tSs
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indente&Ser
vants, Gifford Dally,a mulatto boy, about 17
yean of age, a dim lighf built a&ive fellow, can
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian eoatec
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine ihoes &c.
Allan Hcllons, a black man, about 24 years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high,a thick set
clunil'y built f«!!ow, particularly about the breech;
had' on a faiiorVblue jacket lined with fwanlkin, 1
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse (hoes, &c.; each of them had fevCral
fliirt* and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and"reasonable charges, on delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of Suffei, ftste of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31. mtn&ftw
C AUTIO N. :
WHEREAS Richard Lake has been at
temptligto fell a certain mefluageorten
em'ent and lot of ground, situated on rhefpqtlt
fide of Vine-ftlreet, in the eity of Philadelphia
containing in breadth, on Vir.«-ftreet. sixteen
in depth, feuthward, seventy five feet,
bounded on the north fide by Vine-ftieet, on
the east by ground late of Samuel Rhodes and
Sirah his wife, on ths south by ground late of
John Pemberton, and on the wefL by another lot
then about to be granted to JofepK Hulings—
This is therefore to caution all persons against
purchasing the 'above described' property, the
lame having been mortgaged b.y the said Rich
ard Lake to Willitm Spade.
SARAH SPADE.
July 14 eoaw
Mufual lnjirument Manufaftor y,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
» TARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
11 fid 1-hoVd, pier table and square piano (one
maktrfrona London, returns thanksto his friend*
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his alfiiiuity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the peweft
and moll approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp flop, which he flatten
himfelf will oe found on trkl by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if "not fuperiorro any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any itiflru
mjnt purchased if him, il cot approved of i»
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical instruments rnadet
uned, and repaired with the grtateft accuracy,
dispatch, and 011 the moil reasonable term;, tec
reitdyiaoncy only.
Second Piano Fcrte» takon in ixchange.
May 7/C. .
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from the fubferiber on the fecj
ond day of this inft. July, a Mulatto Man,
named Will Bowzer, about forty years of age,
five feet seven or' eight inches high, 'rather
chunky made ; had on when he went awav, a.
drjb Colored cloth coat, striped purple trow'l'ers
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
laid fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles'*
Bhke of this placet and it is expeiled he hw
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State.—Any person apprehending the ft id fel
low, and securing him io that I can get him a.
gjin, fhjll receive the above reward if taken
(«itof the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
home. ■
X JESSE REED,
tiLeen Ann's County, J-larvland.
July 3. " Vjt