of tfje States, and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numbea 1483.J
■£■ss. For Sale,
JgfffL ACT I V E,
the 10th rnft. at the Coffee-
House, at 7 o'clock, P. M, as (he came from sea:
(he is known to be a fail faiicc. Any particular in
formation may be had oa application to Capt. Bing
™| 7 n boar(l fai<i bri K» aC Meir ]**& aßd Robert
8 s Wharf, to John Phmkinhorn, or i homas
Stewart. Inventoxy to be fcen and terms of pay
ment 10 be made known it the time of (ale*
_JwB. tf
For London,
willYam'penn;
« J At!S3 "tost ah, Majlcr.
XTTILL fail with all convenient speed. For
' ■ freight or passage apply to
JeJJe & Robert Wain.
May .9 5
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enter prize, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, noiu landing at
Morton't wharf,
CONSITI»)G OF
524 hhds. of Claret ") o .
11 ? cases of ditto | 15
100 cases of Sweet Oil .2
11 o pipes London proof ) | S
lo pipes of Holland prpof j BRANDY -j w £
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
-JT -5 * Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
e^"l or Europe, fails
burthen about fifteen hun
«,-»u«-<o3i3efesi3(lred barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 24 §
For Sale or Charter,
* v THE SHIP
WARREN ,
Benjamin Church, Master.
VOF about 280 tons burthen. En
* r '"***& quire of
Jeffe b 5 Robert Wain-
May 16 5
For Hamburgh,
ship
AERIAL,
John Tarris, master.
A GREAT part of her cargo Is engaged, and
file will fail in ten days. For freight or pal
fage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willings & Francis*
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May »5 5
For Freight or Charter,
To any part of Europe,
The Swedijh Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl O. Ehsman,
A BOUT 350 tons burthen,in this port; and
L\ also the Oaoiih Ship FREDERICK fULIUS
K.AUS, of 450 tons,now lying in Hampton Roads.
Apply to JOHN VAUGHAN.
May 26. ■ tuthf6t
j — c - For Freight or Charter,
Brig Fame,
5 FRANCIS KNOX, M?fter:
A fl'ong, excellent vessel, has been just Iheathed and
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry 2,000 bar
rels, has good accommodations so paflcngers.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
June 6. ' 6p
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with mpch pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
file has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
ichool, she has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpeilive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
Jjine sth, 1797- Jimftf
The fituatinn is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Houfliold Furniture.
NOW felling by private tale, No. 17 Dock
ftrcet —confiftinget chairs, tables, looking
glaffes, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedsteads,
feather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
< ied and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is feld.
June a §
For Sale,
That uiell known place, called Fakdegkitt's
FIRRY,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perjhes. Upon the
premifesarea large two ll»ry stone house occu
pied as a tver n, and a good one story (lone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threlhing
fioof, and feme out boildtngi—alfo a well of
good water, and/an excellent ice House. On
this placeis a mall elegant situation fora gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its junflion wiih the Delaware, and theqie
across to the Jersey Ihore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the S»bfer:ber,
MORDECAI "LEWIS.
Vav »4- jtawtf.
HAY.
A Quantity of excellent Old tnd New Hay to
he had at Peel Hill Farm on the Wiflahickon
Road, about a miles from the City.
Also, A QUANTITY OF B'JILDINC STONE.
Jun t 8 it*
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 9 , 1797.
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhdj
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pinti
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lizes
Hazlenuts, in fecks
Whiting
wffi™,d f
& Spanilh Brown J
For Sale b^t
reTBR BLIGHT.
January 4 ■
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A «!UANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Liibon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Cilks
A few Quarter Chells best
Fresh Hyson and ) _ p . „
Hyson Skin \ TEAS
Muscovado Sugars in Hoglbeads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. ||tf
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants" Coffee houfc, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, if not before disposed of at private
falc,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Fishing creeks, in Wa(h
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
ably feMile ; and besides a large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. These lands were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of thepurchafe money, a r-afon
ahl« credit will be given for the residue. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15. § tS
Richard Bayley Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Marlct-fireet,
HAVE received per the Ihips William Penn and
Star from London, a large and fafbionahle as
sortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newest
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chiatzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Mullins, printed and embroider'd
Do. tambour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do. tamboured, of a very superior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
Dimities and mullinets
Damalk table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Rullia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irilh Linens
Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and GlovcS
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
lhapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Haberdashery line.
May aa §i o t
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
short credit.
March 6. §
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further aflrffment of nine dol
lars is levied on each (hare, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the ill of July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Ofßce,
No. S3, North Fourth-flreet, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their negleiling to pa the
fame as above diredted, the several forfeitures
will be exa&ed.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treasurer.
May Z7- djot
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas.., Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Clath. Do. Cheese.
Luteflrings. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May zad. di4t.
Grattan and Comp.
r fpe&fully inform their friends, that they have
imported from London per the Clip Star, a
large affortmeut of
PERFUMER T,
Which is now opened for sale at their Houfc, N».
19 a Marktt-ftreet.
Also, a new affoitutent of ready-made gentle
men's linen, ihirts from a dollars each to 8 dollars,
&c. See. <kc.
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging at ten Dollars each.
Tnofe Gentlemen who have their own private
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or month.
June 5 St
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from bufineCs, invites all
whp have «n« nO:e, bill, bond or acceptance
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and thoC:
who wish to anticipate tnay receive the money
at a reasonable discount.
JAMES SWAN.
May aa. d»w.
Dvrchefrr, ncarßoftod, l4|h May T797.
By John Fen no, N°* iip Chejnut Street.
N O T I C E.
THE co-psrtnerfhip of WilliamVoung, John
and John Mi !s, jun. Bookiellcrs and Stationers, un
der the firm of W. Young, Mills- and Son, is this
day difTolved by mutual co nfent. Ali per ions indebted
to the copartner (hip are requested to make payment
to William Young, and those having demands are de
; fired to produce their accounts for settlement.
William Young,
John Mills,
John Mills, jun.
Philadelphia, June 6th, 1797.
W. YOUNG
Continues the bookselling and ftationa*y business at
the usual place, wholefaJe and retail, where he has
now a very large aflortnoent of
Writing and Printing Papers and Books,
Of whWh catalogues with the prices affixed are de
livered gratis-
Wanted,
A person well qualified in the bookselling and fta
tionaryr business. Applications will be received till
the firft July next, at No. 52, south Second/street,
corner of Chefnut-ftjrct.
June 6- d7p
The fubferibers, have for sale, the
following Goods, viz:
OLD Madeira Wine, in pipes.
Part do. in pipes, hoglheads & qr. casks.
Malaga do. in hogflieads andqr. calks.
Sherry do. in quarter calks.
Claret do. of excellent quality, in bottles.
RufiiaDuck.
Do. Diaper and Huckaback.
Coarse Toweling.
Ifing Glass, firft fort.
Russia white Soap, cut in fmallbars.
Mould Candles, in boxes of 6olb weight-
London Porter, it) bottles.
io<3 barrels of good beef.
A wrought-iron Book Cafe.
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
Philadelphia, ad June, 1797. d.
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
r7O Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality
300 half sacks . do. do.
a few Boxts of Spices, consisting of
Nutmegs, Clovesand Mace
For sale by
KILLINGS & FR4NCIS,
Peniwftreet.
May 30 dtf
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further afleflment of fifteen
dollars is levied on each lhare, payable in the
following instalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ill of June.
One quarter ou the ill September.
One quarter on the ill Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at th* Company's Office,
No. $3 north Fourth flreet, agreeably to the
times above mentioned j and they are further
informed that on their negleiling to pay the
fame as above directed, the several forfeitures
dire&ed by the Conflitution, willl be exadled.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer.
Ma y Jim
To be Sold,
4 large and tonvenient
Three Story Brick House ;
SITUATE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refped well finiflied. Eor particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-!treet.
May 31. j
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Cau/es and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskine.
May is j
Maurice Moynihan,
AO. 81, North Second flreet,
A few doors above Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he haj 1
for wholesale or retail, on the lowest terms, a
general assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumburs, plain and flnwered quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. exa& measures, decanters and
wine glalTes ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and china in sets and separate ; pocket
bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the shortest no
tice.
May 11. dtf
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Thomas, and for sale on reasonable terms
by the package
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Kouens
Poll and Pro Patria Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bandies
Coffee Bags
He hat also for Sale,
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bngs and HogQieadt
Jamaica Spirits
Conna&icut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of bell Patent, Silk and Cotton
Hosiery '
April 18. 4*w
WANT E D,
ABOUT z%o tons of freight, for any part
in Sptin, or the Mediterranean in a neu
tral bottom. Enquire of JAMES YAKD
Jyue :• ;t
NOW LANDING,
, From on. board of the (hip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, fcapt. Chaklis MVAlfstir, from
> Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
Coffas Funjum Cloths
1 Hum mums Gurrahs
Guzeenahs India Calicoes
Emerties Cotton Checks
Mamoodiis Mulinuls
Sahans Red and Blue Bernaeou
hkfi
Tickeries Patna do.
J«llas Santipoie do.
Carridarrics Plain, striped and flower
ed line muslins
Maragungcs Ginghams
Baftas, various forts Taffeties
Sattln Romals Dandanno red hks.
ALSO,
300 Calks Sugar
40 Boxes do.
l6j Bag; do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
10 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
Forfait by PHILIPS, CRAMOND to" Co.
May 4. dtf
Now Landing,
Jit Prats s wharf
FROM on board the (hip Themas Chilkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux, '
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle £s* Leech.
May 15 * j
NOTICE.
THE fubferiber having sent by the ship Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank flock, to wit :
No. 16,005, to 26,014, inclusive, for three
lhares each—and the said vessel having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, which
will mod probably occasion the loss of the said
certificates, gives this public notice,
That he shall apply at the proper offices f»r a re
newal of them, and that means have been taken
to prevent any improper transfer.
Henry Philips,
No. Hi, South Front-dreet.
June r. 3aw6w
To be fold or let,
And immediate pojfejjion given,
| A genteel two story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the upper end ef Broad-street, in
the city of Burlington, with four rooms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump i n the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half an acre und'f good
fence, with a ftabie adjoining the yard. The
whole property is in good order;
Fcr terms apply to the fubferiber in Burlington,
who will give a credir for a considerable part of
the purchase money if good security is given.
William Coxe, jun.
May 17. lawtf
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
JnJl Imported,
In tie jbips William Penn and Star, from London, and
now opening by L
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 114,
Market street
An elegant affortmcnt ot silk, cotton and thread
Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c.
Likewise, a handsome affortmcnt of men's, wo
men's, and children's falhjonable Hats, fuitablcfor
the Season.
A considerable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats afforled in cases, intended for couniry (lores
May 13. taw
For Sale,
ON board the (hip Mollt, John Frost, mailer
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-ftrect wharf
6000 bushels of line Proved Salt,
And QUtEN'S WARE, well ailorted,
By PHILIP
WHO HAVE IM STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
17 tubs Quicksilver
1 chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests M.inchefter Goods well alTbrted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, rnufiiuets,
dimities, &c. » Trunks black fewitig silk,
180 Crates queens ware, well aflorted,
10 Tons lheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points,
London particular and 7 Madeira Wine in
India market . J pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
3ica(ks yellow paint,
7 boxes i» bundles writing dates,
I box ink-Hands & note prefles,
Sail canvas aflorted No. 1 a 8.
May 4. dtf
Millinery Room,
No. 136 MarketJlreet.
MISS CHRTSTAL
TPAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
A her Friends that (he has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, Bte. which (he hopes to be able to
(hew them in a few days.
May 18 s 3 ot
This Day is Published,
Aud fold by H. fcf I. KaUmerer, jun. No. 1
24, North Third-Jlreet, also, by Mr. Hek
rt S'fEtTZFR, No. 85, Race-Jlreet, I
(Price half a Dollar nciliy bound) <
The Man of real Sensibility;
Oi, The HIST OK V OF SIR G. tLLISON.
Founded on Fad.
(£?" The elerant Edition of the Efar.tr.ts of Hatki
ity, m two voT». il'uftratrd wich- tweuty cfcp] er
platea, may also be had a» above, price, f*li bound
and gilt, two dollars and fifty cceu.
H4I.X junrs. have on hafiSfca.quar.t;' of No, i '
aod t Wriiiag Paper.
Junt 8- «63p
XI,
The CommifFioncrs
TyOßcnr'rying.uu»cff«athe"'TWENTY-FIRST
X -Article Treaty of Friendfllip, Limits,
and Navigation, betw»«. Hi. Catholic Maicftv
and the United State, of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein concerned, That,
in order t® terminate op account of
the losses fuftawed by the Citizens of the United
Sestes, in corrfequence of their Vsffels and Car
goes having b-en taken by the of His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at thrir
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Montth9,
irom the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all fueh persons as come before
thtm, on oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in queflioii, and also to receive in evidence,
all written testimony, authenticated in such man
ner as they shall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commi/Jtontrs,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmijjtonrrs Office, Ao. 109, Mulberry
reet, Philadelphia, May 17lb, 1797.
20—i'4W
The Commissioners
T7° a carrying into effedt the sixth article of the
1 j'Tl am ' t 7' commerce :L -"' d navigation, con
cluded between his Britannic majesty and the United
States of America, the , 9th day of November,
1794, having this day constituted their Board
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they are ready to proceed to
business accordingly; and they deOrs that all claim,
under the said article (which so far as the fame de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
out "delay iodged W ' th eit Secretary with-
They further defirethat all such claim, may cot
only ft ate in what manner the several cases come
within the defcriptioß of the said article, but also
fpecial.y f« forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpedlively undertake tafub
ftantiate the fame.
Exjracft from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledged by divers British mer
chants, and others his majesty's fubjefls, that
debts to a confutable amount, which were bona
fide contracted, before the peace, still remain
' the!n by cltizcnsor inhabitants of the
United States ; and that by the operation of va»
" rious lawful impediments, fmce the peace, not
only the full recovery of the said debts has been
• delayed, but also the value and security thereof
have been in several instances impaired aHd lcff
" ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
' proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
' obtain and actually have and receive full and
adequate compensation for the loffesanJ J j„,
" ges which tney have therebv f u r, ain
" fbnf th rlV" fUChCafeSW ' here fu » compenfal
» ever "f' u" 0U ? ai J, d cannot for what
-lobtained, had and recei
„ V s. h J. 'he said creditors in the ordinary fcourfe
„ 0 J ul " tlce > the United States will make full and
complete compensation for the lame to the said
creditors: but i,is diftindliy understood, that -
this provision is to extend to such losses only as
have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
aforefaid, aud is not to extend to losses occasion
„ insolvency of the debtors or other
„ ? ' " would equally have operated to pro
„ " " ch loss ' »£ the 'aid impediments had not
.. ; nor to furh losses or damages as have
been occasioned by the manifeft delay, ornegli
• {.encc, or wilful omission of the claimant."
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Philadelphia, Commissioners* Office, ctar 3'
No. 3 south Sixth-ftfeet, May 20 '
l ™- ' J 6-iim
SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
J. the Envoy fcxtraordmary and Miniller Pleni
po.en.i.ryof his Britannic Majefly, General Agent
ior affiiiing Brnito creditors, and luch particular a
ger.ts a. they may specially authorize, in profecutimr
their claims before the CBmmiflioncrs for carrying i„!
to effefl the sixth article o( the Treat, of Amity, Com
mcrce and Navigation between his Br,tannic A aielly and
the United States of Amlnca, hereby gives na.icc that
he has opened his offi e at his house the south eat
corner of Chelnut and fifth ftree.s, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or inftruflionj
tor claims with the voucheis aud documents thereof
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agreed
ably !o the rules and orders which the boa«i mav
think proper to orefcribe. '
- And as it will be for the interest of all concerned,
that the several claims may be so hated, and support!
Ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the neceffityof obtaining further information, or ad
ditioual materials,from persons residing at advance
the genera! agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the'
direction chiefly of thofc, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the profccutioo of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims in particular to set forth
irt. The proper defeviptior, and fit.-.aiion of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refnefl
ively.
ai. The date or nature of the original contr»a or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant wis prevented or impeded
by the provision, operation or deleft of law, the
decision, and praftice of courts, or restrain: of exe
cution, from iccovering payment of the debt in
queltion.
4th. The loss and damage incurred or fufbined,
in of such impediments, whether the
lame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
fituatioo, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy fiom lapse of time, or othercaufe. imp»i t W
the value and security of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impedimeots had not exilled,
And 51 h The paiticular grounds and reifons oa
which the claimant maintains, in the terms «f the
treaty, that ' by tie ordinary ccurfe of judical trace 1-
" * n £ s tbe creditor cannot now obtain and aQuatly luivc
" and receive full tad adequate cjnfenfatioa" f or
losses and dzirtages so luftained. <
1 he general agent thinks it hu duty further to fui
grfl that the several claims ought to be acc-mpamtd
and lupported by the affidavits of the claimants duiv
sworn and regularly atirfled, both as to the .»;flence
or the debts c,aimed, and such other circumftancs
as may be within their own knowledge refpeilively
And wherever the cljimauts in Bating the natuie of
their evidence (which mull in every infl.nce be the
best of which Hie cale is capable) h»ve oceafion to
refer to the testimony of witi,«ff«, it will be proper
to apprise ibe general agent of the names and plac.-s
of rehdrrce of luch witoeffesandlhe fail,to be e!la."
bliQicd by their testimony.
V\'m. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June 8 h, 1797. dim • :
New-England Rum,
In ldogftteads aud Barrels, forfale by
f HALL.
Jw. :• 4t .
M M" . 10
PHILADELPHIA, . &
... fa
FRIDA T £7 EN ING > JUN'E 9. /,
♦ i*, X-H..
U
Marricrl at K«w by the Rev. Dr. S. S.
Smith of Princeton, JOSIAH QUINCY Esq.. of &
Boilon, Connfellor at Law, to Miss .ELIZA S. in
MORTON, the late Mr. John Morton
ifl/erchaut of that City
~. .c<
A CURIOSITY. jj
f
UK. tKXNOi
IN returning yflerday evening to my house
in the Country, I picked up in the road a paper, f
tvhich upon inflection, appeared to be part of
ibe proof sheet of a circular letter, written pro
bably by cne of the under door ieepers of Con
grtfs to his friends in the country—As the faSs
therein fated are of a very curious nature, I
have taken the liberty of tranfmittir.g it to you
fcr publication.
" Philadelphia, 2d June, 1797-
" Sin; 1
" WE have this day agreed to a report in
erf liter to the Preftdert's Speech, which is all f
the bufmefs we have done since the meeting of v
Cor.grefr; and which I would fend you, but it I
is too lengthy for a letter. It hits eojl the coun-
try at leafl nineteen or twenty thousand dollars ; t
the daily expense of Congress being eflimated at j
about one thousand dollars, and which neither f
the corftitution nor laws of this country have t
required of us, or even warranted in my opin- c
ion. It is an evil introduced by our predecessors,
who wished tO'be aping oftcr monarchical pomp ;
and parade ; forgetting that they were citizens, i
and not fubjeSs. In the course of the debates <
upon this fubjeS, amendments were brought for- |
ward which ultimately prevailed to this effeß : f
IVe cherish the hope that the Preftdent will fend [
an Ambassador, or Envoy Extraordinary to f
France, who shall declare to that Republic un- ■>
equivocally, that, the United States are willing j:
to rcrrjtve all inequalities which may exifibetween {
her and other foreign relations with the United t
States, and require that France would on her a
part make good thi spoliations committed on our 1
neuiral rights.— The friends to this amendment £
(amongfl whom I was one)hefitated—Perfuaded
it wasbetterto try farther negotiations,&wifhing r
rather to conciliate than irritate the French into c
war. This principle was opposed by the friends t
to the original reportfrom the committee. They n
urged that we had fufficient cause to go to war e
with the French, in as much as the Executive e
DireSory refufed to receive our Ambassador, ti
and called him Anglo-American ; that her pride ®
ought to be humbled; that America was able to ,
do it, if fie would Jhew the frmnefs of the c
Emperor, and assume the manly tone of Great
£~:Z >i' v ! W"'' latter of which (as their J
arguments "joeniprove) we ought to form an
alliance ofenfive and tvotild t
do great things. Again-, that zue kjd no right
to ie l the President that we had an opinion
it would be affum'tng a Aitlatorial flation, even (
to tell him we had a thought or a w 'tfh about r
the matter ; nntwithflandwg he had called Con- \
grefs for that express purpose. Other members \
went Jlill further, whose firmnefs I lament, and *
whose politics I very much qucflion ; for Ido 1
not heptate to declare, that I am afraid that j
there are many members in Congress, whose fin- (
cere dfire is to involve us in a war with the |
mfl powerful nation in Europe, where we mufl \
hazard every thing, put every thing at flake i
without tie mofl dijlant profpeci of gain, and in <
JLort, when we cannot gain. What unwise '
policy I Infiead cf shewing a dfire to queflion
the public councils, to view thepajl conduS, and
to provide for the future welfare, it appears
more than ever the prevailing <fnd exulting
maxim, that government mufl be supported;
mixed too with a considerable degree of bitter
tufs againjl all those who queflion its proeeed
ings.
" That government mufl be supported, is a
maxim jufl and incontrovertibly true, when
rightly underflood. But a disposition to remove
r.'ifs, under any regulations whatever, is ac
, imtrd by those who even admit and lament
'r cxijlcnce, as an attack upon the conftitu
'l authorities, or even the constitution itfelf,
. ■ -ih fuffers from them. It is by this fenfa
ihat the authors of our present calamities
lire cheri/hed and supported by those whocondemn
them ; whilfl, on the other hand, those who
with wisdom ond perseverance oppose all those
meafurcs which produce them, are discounten
anced and djirufed. Hence nothing is more
certain of being acceptable with the multitude
than extravagant afferthns in favor of ihat
fide of the queflion which the individual hap
pens to efpoufc : thegroffejl allujions have in that
cafe found credit. The truth of this remark
we have a recent 'tnflance of in the Richmond
paper of Mr. Davis of the 2\th ult. wherein
are tbefe degrading words : " We of the Grand
Jury of the United States for the diflriß of
'Virginia, present as a real evil the circular let
ters of the Members of Congress." In an
swer to Ms, Ido mojl Jtncerely lament, that
;mofl of our political disputants, newspaper wri
' tirs and pamphleteers, seem to let local attach
ments, pnrty spirit, or ambitious views, take
preference of truth, in search of which scarce
ly can we find a sentence of fair, vnbiajfed rea
faning, in d whole page or pamphlet. At the
fame time, are not the rights of the people puck
at in • this mode of doing buftnefs ? I would
* vjl, how are the people to know what is doing
on the foor of Congress, vnlefs they have the
informa:kr. f -jrn their Reprefintatives, if there
is not a newspaper printed in every neighbor
. hood'? And as this is not the cafe, what better
way can be devfed, than for ibe members of
each diflria tocutlfnm the gnat mass of fluff
_ -fontflinsdinjhe pubiit;pri/::s, and coflmnfe it in
to one paper, which may the mei-e eaftly be con*
jvcyed to their conJ)'ttver.ts : for it 'cannotlefup
pofed that a member -could write as and
' as.often, as the people far from. him.
And again, what was the intent of freaking
of letters ? 'Was it merely for the purpose oj'ac
cohmodating members tn write to f amities ?
For my own fart, I think otherwise. I f'p
fnfe it was intend:dthat the ptoijejhonld kr.ow
femething elfbeftds the bis.ness \f the tax ga
tberer ivhcn he ccr.cs* But cjrJid the.
■thix ismt all tlsal is n:.v," !j that fnmyjs'pre-. V
fen:-icnt, of that f,units J*>y- Is it.not in- "
tended to hoodwink the p»pk ifta fi'neth'ng
zii >rfe ? Have the ptsplclsen t«l.l ibat there ev- c
er was art attempt in the conv:n':on to mould a ~
Kingly government ■? If they have not, let them x
take this as a warning, and b: upon their guard, n
In the mean time, Irtqurjl furb gentlemen its dif- n
approve of this mode of un iting, to Julmit tny
letters to their neighbors, and to Jtgqfy their
displeasure by -writing trie abetter ; for this ij r
in my opinion the W'Jl direct com nun'tcaiive cbun- \
nelthrough yjbkb we cun cor ref pond iv:'h our ;•
constiTuents, and cfpes tally when it is remember- t
ed what a great diflance vie are from them,and e
the amaxing extent of territory they are difper- ji
fed over."
MR* rCHNCi, - . „
The following extra&, on r '-c autSentictty of
which you may rely, as well as on the tru-h of r
the matter con-aincd in it, aeferves notice; as j
it proves that if the Bricifil iniprefs teamen from (
us, we are raore thati even with them by entic- (
ing a aitich greater nUmier from them. It may
tc Lch us to moderate our anger for a|jgreflions,
which tho' not juftified, -re certainly in a very
great measure, provoked, by th: improper e&s t
of cur own citizens. t
Extrafl of a letter from Antigua dated sift OISO- c
bcr 1796. t
Mr. wrote by , and I hope has f
fatisfied you that his sentiments coincide pix feiSly r
with yours (in the fubjeft of yonr correspondence, '
I know he has had a great deal of trouble, durinjr t
this whole war, in rescuing Americans improperly V
detained by the officers of the navy, and a very
troublefoms part of his duty it mufthavc been.— j
Jullice requires however that what can be laid in ,
palliation of the conduit of those rough ions of
the ocean, towards the Americans, ihould not be v
omitted :• The Americans have exerted wonderful d
induflry in fecre:ing and carrying away deserters
from our Navy; you may judge of their diligence v
by what they have done, during the hmricane
months in this small Illand; one seventy four and ''
five frigate*, lying at Englifn Harbour, have loft f
fincc the month of August above three hundred t
men by desertion ; 1 very large reward has been r
, granted by the legislature of the Island for appre-
hending these. men, and after the mjft diiligent
fearth not above thirty of them can be found in the
whole country: we have had no vessels of our I
own here to convoy them away, for our {hips all
failed before the commencement of the Hurricane
r feaion: they have doubtless been carried ofl by t
the American vessels that are conllantly corring ,
and going, and allthefe seamen are a loss to great '
Britain at lead for the remainder of the war. I '
think some pains (hould be taken by the American I
Government to prevent Britiih seamen from being (
smuggled in a mannar so improper : or some ar- ]
rangement (hould be made between the two
countries, by which proper officers might be au
thorised on the part of Ureat Britain and the Unit
ed States to go on board of American vessels im
mediately on their entry into Britiffi ports, and j
examining the number ef their seamen ; another
examination to take place when they are quitting
the port-. this, if properly conduced, would not
only effedlua ly prevent them from carrying off
Britilh Seamen, but be the means ofpreferving ]
their own from the violent hands of the Navy
Officers.
Extras of a letter from Holland, Feb. 7, 1797.
Since Twrote you lad, I am informed that
the French Direflory have ordered Mr. Pinck
ney to leave France, and he has determined to
come into this country and wait here for the
Gid«« of his government.-^—At the time when
the refill to receive him took place, an inti
mation wis given him, that it was expedted he
would depart, but he refufed to go, without a
written order. This was delayed Until the Di
' reftory received their last dispatches from the
United State 6 and the most recent statement of
; the eleflion of President and Vice-Prefident.
I hav« already written you in what manner they
consider this event —with what mortification
they have found their influence inefficient to
' turn the choice, and how much they are incli
• ned to persist in their system by their proximity
to Juccefs. This last incident strongly corrobo
. rated the cpision.
A citcumfiance which cannot eft-ape oblerva
, tion, is the treatment at this time experienced
from the fame quarter by Mr. Monroe. He
' has been upon a tour through this country. He
' came strongly recommended to an influential
r member of the committee of foreign affairs,
. and to the secretary of that committee, who as
well as the French minifler here, paid him the
greatest attentions. This member of the com
mittee is devoted totally to France. He gave a
1 fplsndid entertainment to Mr. Monroe, at which
1 were present other members, and the secretary
t cf the committee, and the American miniller.
- After dinner while they were fitting at table,
t he aceofled Mr Monroe, and the American
mimfierby name, and gave, for toast, "The
- peuple ot America." The secretary upon whom
' the American minifler instantly turned his eye,
" was apparently confuftd, and inflead of re
peatiDg the toast as given, fubflituted in its
n liead " the United States." Mr. Monroe said
0 neither the one nor the other.
r e This anecdote may appear trivial, but is a
clear indication of things far othcrwife.
I saw Mr. Monroe almost every day while he
1 was here, he converted with me upon our pub
e lie affairs, but with great reserve, particularly
]t -concerning our situation with France. His de
portment evidently discovered an exasperated
it and strongly agitated mind, though his conver
i fation was in every particular extremely gnard
d ed. He went from the Hague to Arafterdam,
where he flayed only a few days, and from
whence he very suddenly set out for Utrecht on
his return to Paris, on the fame day when the
'/ news arrived here of the order to depart given I
t- to Mr. Pinckney.
1- In this country the name of the Vice-Prefi
it dent (Mr. Adams) is remembered with refpefl
and attachment by the people of all parties.
1" The proofs of it, whick I have observed, are
, innumerable, and mrlt particularly fmce the
'' recent American cleflions, h:ve become an ob- j
jefl of immediate notice and attention. There
1- is however a power extant in this country,
'ie which overrules all attachment and will either
-I silence refpeift, or render its voice unavailing.
U To an orcer f.gncd from the French Diredory
be it what it may, no refinance can be made,
'£ and hever is attempted.—lf, therefore, they
(hould require of this government to suspend
re all intercourse, commercial or or both
r- with the United States, tbey could not refufe
er tke demand, although folly fenlible ; t would
B f be a meajure extremely odious to th« pcoplt,
ir andthst in conference 6f such a difference,
they would fufftr niucb. ir.ore injury than Aratr
icaos. If, tHerrfore, the Amnican minifler
(hould be ordered away from hcace, as Mr.
p- Pinckney has been from Paris, you will tot be
nd fgrprifed. There is not at present any reafo*
m. lo ,'xpe<n it, but how ton the dinrflpry may
r „ tx aait is impc-ffibleto fay, aud if rtaaet), it
raß.not'bc refufed. Thi: opinion is fuppm ted
an example « hif_h has ahxady taken place
' with regard to Portugal.
'P~ y ou vnll fce by the papers that the new eni
ct' pcror isf Russia has determined to adhere to the
'a- treaties, concluded by his mother with Great
\cl" Britain and Aoftiia, but not to conclude the
y -hlh Ihc vvii tfpsr. .£>;<? point of fi»i:W3
ot til - time of lief an«i ■» virtue of which ] al
fbc was to furniM iiku for the next
campaign. He has ,n ;t, js.wji prttendi'd, rt* w
cognize the Trench Republic ; but the death >
of the lateemprefs is followed by so rrmafkabie j
and jinportant a change of fyftein, that it can- j
not .be supposed to luvr happened in the com- ta
mc# course of mortality. <5;
The Frcn.'h army in Italy h:s obtained ano
thirfptendid vi&ory. It may give thera Mart
tuaj burprnbably will not reconcile the enipe- • .
ror yet to the fscrifice ot the Netherlands, j
This is now the great apparent obstacle to a < w
peace, and fer this the nations of Europe are [le
to bleed at every, artery lav years perhaps (o j in
come. You will undoubtedly fee the accounts d
of Lord Malmclbury's negociatibus, and will t(
find in the eonverfation of DeUcr> ix. the pre
sent fyftrm of the Directory. Y-ju fee how
coolly they are relblved to facrifite this country *
—to give up the Cape of Good Hep; ami Trin-
to Uf'itain as a compenfatiun for the an- k
nsxation of the Netherlands to France. Tbe h
j Batavian republic will IWJ be obliged to return c
thanks," and glory in holding its Liberty under
the tenure of French bounty. [A 1 . T. D- Ad-]
The Address In answer to the Speech of
the Preiidcr.t of the Unijed States, passed
the House of Rcprefentatives by a majority
of TWENTY-SIX. Sixty-two Ayes and '
thirty-fix Noes. This Addreis solemnly as- ((
fureo the President of the United States, ,
That they believe that the conduft of the z
Government has been just and impartial to-
wards Foreign Nations. r
It is true that the majority against ftrik-
ing out these words was only 8. The faft
however is, that on the final decision there
was a. great majority in favor of the Ad-
dress containing the sentiment.
To suppose that any of that majority °
would aft counter to this solemn declaration,
may square with the politics of a foreign ?
faftion, but would be a gross refleftion on
the honor and integrity of any man who
pretends an attachment to the interest of the
United States. c
c
BACHE'S PREDICTION, 7TH APRIL LAST.
Notwithstanding the appearances of ani- *
mofity subsisting between the United States
and the Republic of France, we have the I
belt founded reasons for believing that the
misunderstanding will be of a very short '
(landing, after the business shall have been [
laid before Congress by the President.
APPOINTMENT. 1
Jacob Lewis of Dorchester, Massachu
setts, Consul at the Isle of France.
COMMUNICATION.
The Aurora of Wednesday last acknow- '
ledges, in plain language, Mr. Jefferfon's
fathering the letter to Mazzei. This is an 1
important—a precious confession. The '
friends of the government will aft according
ly. The intelligence ought to be commu- 1
nicated from Maine to Georgia, that the
real sentiments of the Vicc-Prejident may
be generally known.
The Aurora of Wednesday last asserts,
<« that some members of 1 Congress dined at
the Britilh ministers, on the 4th of June, to
celebrate the birth-day of the Britilh Mo
narch."—We are authorised, by a gentle
man who was present at that dinner, to con
tradift positively the aflertion in the Aurora,
and to assert that there was not present any
member of the federal governmeut, nor any
member of Congress The above attempt
in the Aurora to deceive the public by lies
is worthy of notice.
One of the Aurora-men asserts, that the
letter from New-York, publilhed in this Ga
zette, relative to the eleftion in that city,
is a fabrication. The original letter is in
the hands of the editor hereof.
In one of the French Gazettes publilhed
in this city (not Aurora) the speech of
Ned Froth is thus eulogized :
" After having proved with equal energy
and truth ! the jujlice of most of the ac
cufationsof France,he(Froth) reproached the
United States with forgetting the services
which the French nation have rendered
them."
" I am, cried he, one of those whose
number is daily diminifhing—[" A preci
ous confeflion"—it is high time that such
patriots should become fcarce.J
To meet the decided approbation and even
eulogium of an enemy, must be regarded as
rather lame evidence of the patriotism of
the objeft of it.
Improb'.s laudari viluperari ejl.
The repeated accounts we receive of mis
representations circulated in France by our
jacobins, must convince the Americans that
the differences between the Government of
that country and of the United States, has
proceeded mostly from the arts and treache
ry of our citizens. When we fee such abo
minable fallhoods as those contained in Mr.
Jefferfon's letter, propagated through Eu
rope by those charafters who have held high
offices in America, we are tempted to apolo
gize for the resentment of a nation exposed
to those deceptions. The evil is deep root
■ ed among ourselves—and unless some mode
can be adopted to restrain these traiterous
f correspondencies, between the faftious of
• our own citizens and foreign governments,
we (hall never be represented to Europeans
in our just charafttr.
We have taken pains, Snce the opening
1 of Spring, to make enquiries of gentlemen
, from different parts of the country, ref
j pefting t,hc state of the public mind in the
' interior. We find but one opinion, as to
r public affairs, the farmers, who conflitute
' the strength of our Republic, and who be
„ to no party, as a body wish foracon
y tinuaace of Peace. At the fame time, they
it are extremely irritated at the injuries we
d fuffer from France, and if no honourable
e means can bejound to prc-ferve peace, they
will, with 'jxrfeft unanimity, and great ,spi
rit, encounter the perils of war. . Such we
may be affnred is the unanimous sentiment of
.< the Eaftem States. N. T. Paper.
A Ccrr;:fpondent 00feryes-—that at the Hi l
late reviews in the several Counties of this fei
D{ftrift, the fame noble spirit pervaded the mi
whole body of-, people, with refprft the \y<
unpleasant fifuation of this couutry with lia
France. All declare themselves willing to ne
take up antis in defence of the Indeprn- th
der.qe of thfir Coilr.try, and against any te
Nation that would dare to interfere with dc
their internd GoVerr.ir.snt —or attempt an
infioious diitinftion between them and those tc
whom they have freely chosen as their ra- in
lers—that they are enemies to all Foreign tc
influence —and that France,by her late con- r:
dust, has rendered her friendfhsp suspicious j
to the people of the United States, | hi
What pleafureable lenfations must it ere- j cl
ate in the breaiis of genuine Americans, to re
find that the mr.fs of out fellow-citizens as
know Jio-w to appreciate their dear bought ai
liberties; and that they with one voice de- fi<
clare themselves ready to defend their coun- pi
try against all attacks.
( IVihnmgtof., N. C.paper —MAr 2s. P
The" Quotidienne" aParispaper,makes in
the following interesting remarks on the li'
late Proclamation of the Executive Direc- ti
tory, relative to the Primary Assemblies :
" The Direftory formally invites all citi- g
zens not to choofc those who regret-the an- ft
cient regimen. I beg to aik," fays the a
writer, "what it metns by the words ancient tl
regimen. Does it wish to exclude those
who regret the tranquility we enjoyed under f<
our kings ? No ; the Direftory has no in-
tention to perpetuate disorders. Does it &
allude to those, who regret the time when °
our property was held sacred ? No ; the n
Direftory will not protest and encourage r
pillage. Does it speak of those who regret a
the day when no blood was Ihed on the fcaf- ti
fold, but that of robbers and affafiins ? c
No ; the Direftory seeks the retiirn ps 1
the reign of justice. Does it mean to point t:
out those, who regret the Lettres de Ca- d
chet ? No'; the Revolutionary Committees
have made us forget them. Or does it per- t
haps allude to those who regret the reign of: t
Religion ? No ; Government has formally 0
proclaimed the liberty of religious worihip. ! <3
What then do you mean by ancient regi- 0
men ? A king, no doubt ; but he was r
murdered by you. Besides, the word king f
is void of sense, and a Republic of frogs
alone can demand a king without making men- r
tion of a government. A king may be as well e
at the head of a Republic, as at the head J
of a Monarchy. The Spartans were certainly 1
stout republicans, and yet they had two 1
kings. Poland was a Republic, and yet £
Poland had a king. The word king is there-
fore a bug bear to frighten children and c
nurses. The word ancient regimen conse
quently implies an absurdity, and should not 5
be found in a Proclamation' of the Direc- 1
tory. London paper.
MR. fp.nno, | :
AS the right of a Neutral Nation to protest*
its commeree by convoys, is now agita- 1
ted, I inclose a quotation from Puffendorf '
on that fubjeft, and with you to insert it '
in your Gazette. A. B. 1
In the year 1692 the celebrated Mr. Pus- 1
fendorf was consulted on the free navigation
of the Northern Powers of Europe, during
a war between the Englilh, Dutch and
' French, when he gave the following opi
nion :
" If the Northern Princes can maintain
! " their trade with France by fending strong
" convoys with their fleets, I fee nothing to !
" blame in it,, provided their vessels do not j
. " carry contraband goods. The law s of j
" humanity and equity between nations do 1
«• not extend so far as to require, without any j
( " apparent necessity, that one people should
" give up its profits to another."
I CONGRESS.
f HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
r Wednesday, June 7.
Cmcluf.ori of Mr. S Smith's remarks,
t If the latter amendment was agreed to,
s he should be for striking out the whole, leav
-1 ing it general, because with Weft Indies in
it, it would be particularly pointed.
; They had been told of the loss fuftaifled
- by spoliations, and where it fell. He believ
£> ed it fell uppn the great body of the people
of America, and that the fall in the price of
1 produce had been occasioned principally by
s the Britilh admiral having forbidden the car
s rying o four provisions to Hifpaniola. The
Britilh fleet, in the Weft Indies, he said,
was supplied with provisions from Ireland,
whilst the French depended upon this coun
- try for supplies, so that they were our best
r customers there.
,t The gentlemanfromS. Carolina (Mr. W.
if Smith) supposed the cry of war would have
lb no effeft in the country ; but let us refer
■- back to to the British treajy, said he, when
>- that gentleman was so loud in his cry- But
r. that was a war with Great Britain, and not
1- with France. At that time there was not
h a British tear which was not called forth by
i- the appealswhich were made on this ground,
d But, Mr. S. said, he did not then fear
t- war, nor did he now, if they took prudent
le measures. The gentleman said,, his plan was
is to prevent war, and yet he proposed to go
)f to Jight and Jink the vessels of a particular na
s, tion. This was a way of prefervirig peace
is peculiar to himfelf.
If merchant's vessels were armed, they j
ig would fcrve the purpose of privateers, which
■ll might be used against our own vessels. Tin's I
f- was 3 risk he did not chufe to run. But it
le was a curious faft, that at the fame that we
to are proposing to permit the merchants to
te arm, they express a disinclination to it ; be
e- cause they love their country bette vthap their
n- own interest. But the gentleman had said
that the expence of insurance would be lef
ve fened by this arming- On the contrary, he
ile (and he was an underwriter) should confiiler
ey the ri(k greater from their having guns. In
?i- 4e<*'he found the InCurancf Offices were all
ve against the measure.
of But the gentljrrvan fays, let.the French
know we are preparing. He trusted we
(hoaid prepare a defence which could not of
fend any oue. Let us do all we can to pro ■
mote peace ; let tl>d negociations go on. It
would he a fine ltory, indeed when a reconci
liation was about to take place bctwnct our
negociatdrs and the French government that
they (hou'd hear we were {inking her priva
teers in- the Weft Indies. They would
doubtless fend them about their bulinefs.
The gentleman from S. Carolina seemed
to thick it was right for our veflek to go".
into Rebel .ports in the Weft Indies ; and
told them < tour men being taken by Vittor
HugueSj coaiideredas pirates and hung (Mr.
W. S. denied having said our citizens were
Lung) Mr. S. read Victor pro
clamation, (though he said he had no more
refpeft for him than that gentleman,
as he had loft 6or 7,<360 dollars by him)
and (hewed that those persons were only con
sidered as traitors who failed out of rebel i
ports, and not citizens of the United States.
Nor were those ports conlldered as rebel
ports which were taken by the Engliih,
(Cape Nicholas Mole was one of those) but
merely those which were in a state of rebel
lion, to which, if we were determined to
trade, it would certainly lead to war.
Mr. S. said he was surprised to hear the
gentleman from S. Carolina make one cori
feffion, viz. that the French minister had
allured our government the prizes taken in
the Weft Indies were unauthorized, because
when he had aiferted the fame thing, on a
former occasion, that gentleman denied it.
Mr. S. inftfted that the French trade carri
ed on to the Weft Indies was a produftive
one, and that payments were in geperal
made as punctual, as in any otber parts, and
referred to m?jor Mountflorence's letter for
an aft of generosity .never (hewn by the Bri
tish ; nay, he thought there was a better
chance of getting money owing from France
than there was for getting it for any spolia
tions committed by the Britiih, and novv;un
der adjudication.
Mr. S. concluded by faying, be had ano
ther reason for opposing the meaiufc. Two
thirds of his constituents were farmers, and
one third citizens, and they enjoined him to
do all in his power to keep this country out
of war ; he thought the rejection of this
resolution as tending to this end, and there
fore he opposed it.
! Mr. Harper went into a defence of the
resolution at considerable length. lie deni
ed that the French could take reaforiable
grounda of offence at the mcafure, as the
power would only be given under such re
ftriftions as mull prevent it from being abus
ed, as men would never wantonly forfeit the
sums in which they were bound to obey their
order?. »
When Mr. Harper fat down there was
a loud call for the committee to rife (it being
past three) when Mr. Livingfton rose, and
hoped the question would be taken. The
: question was put for the committee to rife,
| and carried 42 to 40.
J A bill was received from the Senate for
raffing and organizing an additional corps
■ of artillerists and engineers, which was read
the firft time ; when Mr. Macon moved that
it be rejefted, as he favv no rrecefiity for in
, creasing our army. The-motion was oppo
sed by Mr. W. Smith, who said the men
. | would be wanted for supplying the garri
i sons ; and in order to get rid of the quef
. ; tion, he moved the House to adjourn. Car
ried.
FRIDAY, MAY 16.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Dent in the
1 chair, on the amendment of the answer to the
' ; Prclidtnt.
: | Mr. Dennis said, being unacquainted with
f j the fubjedl, In a manner, and newly honored
j 1 with a feat i'> the honfe, he thought it mofl prn
r ! der.t to observe silence hitherto, and should still
j . have remained had he not observed thf
ground offome gentle.r,en's arguments, which
had roused him to a sense of his duty; he, un
der that imprefDon.came forward, not merely
to examine many of the arguments introduced
on this <>ccafjon, but to Ihew his reaforis why
, he could not vote in favor of the amendment
now before the Committee.
It appeared from the turn the debate had ta
ken, as though the quetUon was, whether A
, merica fnould enter into a war or nut, —at leali
- it would appear so to persons attending to the
[! debate ; indeed, he said, be (hould not be at all
fuprifed if at this moment waggon loads of pe-
I titions were on the road from all quarters, to
~ reflrain this body from entering into a war with
" the French Republic : was the question alked
e of a person who had not heard it, the answer
f mud natually be war —whether we (hauld now
y declare war againltthe French.
In the remarks he had to make, he could ii'ot
e flatter himfelf to be able to display the talents
. which feme gentlemen had done, he mufletm
' tent h unfit If with a few defultoty obfervitiaiis,
'> and endeavor to dire& them as much to the
1- point as pofiible. It had been the prafiice of
I some gentleman to commence their harangue
to the house, on the imprcfiiens under which
tftey came into the government. ' Notwfth
ftanding some observations which hal hceo
made on tbis fuhjedt by a gentleman, (Mr.
r Livingfton,) tho' a new member, Mr. Der.nis
n said, it would not he very extraordinary if he
It were to explain his impreihons on Crft coming
it into the houie, but he Olould not so tike up the
)t time of the committee. Kor should he follow
y the other gentleman (Mr. Frftrr an,) on lie
j fnhje<Sl of ftderiiilVn. He had no forma: mars
' to amend, nor tetrafiions to niake ; it; came
II forward perfefHy tiUtrammeled ; in wl):t,b he
was differcnl from the grtnleman who opened
is the dtluf» ( Mi. Nic!iol«s,) who faj j he carhe
O forward animated with ze.il in of'fjjc
a . French nation, because of the powerful crinbi
.e nation file had to cops with, and /which- at
tempted to rob her of her Hbmy,cm ac
count of the in-.tifTerence which tinned »> prr
vadc this country not inly to of. die
; h french natiOh b'M iq fr*nt*
is ral. Lome, ft id Mr. Dennis, the fahie
it iroprffliort*—l-oqce .felt. vi'.b enll-ulb/m -the
re WCle of the French, becaafc "hdr'a'imyMifcr at
to tempt wai librrty. I rejoifftj ''in'be* victories
and felt'hcr troubles";- fi# hnjj:'la«..hss aim was
_. lib: rtv •• fend-iighcrivff»&■*}#&/««»-.: jGaa, I
: . ,r felt in tref behiu .--fbut whuta fitKa-
J " tloii it Ifce Mow f4No vktugtf tnju ed, thf
:f- bw ter.-viOyjej ivty'e made her be
he comet-be no l.nger .i;, the r.iufr of
free«lom hir aim. tiut ia!sg 1 AiWlizt
n. ment .* witK;her"«)Mi!f»e fcf £oii3*a tt_ OecOmc*
cbligatsry (Vjr liie to chailgi frorn the approba-
J1 t}6ti 1 fottherty -telt in : her ; bcUilf; tiie now
comrs for wire! »:)• regulate onr concerns I
c " thnefm e> c?n no longer sjpopfe h?r and
yc mult candidly dcclaic myClf pets- urjrarc-rotiled t« sny .i -J.s,c>;r;p! jr." cv/n, jjtotirt
jtidiced in favor or any nation but my dv n, ex
iept their conduct th-iiu'iuls tiiafprAMcdUoii.
A greater rtTangi? firirrc» *vfr pa 111-11,
than that lately by flic Fnriich nation.
I mi: v iciti .i is m»y change rrqn'- ,C?K.'r c and a
thou land pa!T» i: s whicii attack-thprj.:n —-tni:
is not material, but, «-J»cn we fife a gr£at and
powerful nation ct^nfing,—changing from that
glow of enthulTalm jvhich has |<>ng been borne
in the bosoms of A.-nvicati", \cft2t does it e
viitce I It is a jVrelurat.tive evideiue that fojne
great.ever.t hi; cauieti it. 1 corae forward with
ii» atiaebmrm'-but to iAy own gov.ernustn:, 1
think none so good: I u .11 lay that America,
every thing in bsr, arid belonging io'hcr'in tv- 1
ery relpcit, is. superior to any thiirgin any oth
er co(ja:iy. This may L. thotight a narrow
difpeiition, but lam not lure tßat tfc. he more
liberal would 6c to lie more politically wife- I
tl : n conie forward, not to vindica-e the cause
of France or Cueat Britain, nor to depreciate
the cue in vioJatjnp; the: dignities of the mner,
but only to vindicate ottr own government be
cause I think it right .' It f:ems cnri
(•us toohferve that, uhile all nations are' ein- J
ployed in the admiration of, our cOhfiitutioil,
cur government and administration ; our own
cUircns are the only ones, who expeefs diflatis
iailion at its form or itrcontjudl. I do not
mean to fay that all that his been done on the
part of the government has heen critically right,
J wdl not deny but it may have omitted to'do
whit it ought to have dorie, or done in some
cases what had teen "better let' alone, —but by
the great mils of. their tranfaitions they have
afTumed a fifuatitfn as '<ifpe£Uble as that of any
other nation. '3'hv fiery ordeal we had to pais
through amkjQ cmifii&jng nations has heen as
fuccefsfully encountered by the conduit we piir
l'ued as by any other path we could have chosen.
I cannot pretend to defend the violations com
mitted by cither of the bulligerent powers—they
have both afted wrong ; so much so as to im
press the whole work! that we cannot depend
upon the '\generofity," or " magnanimity"
cf either, but the queition is, have we 'fuffi
cient caufeto resent these insults i we all agree
that an attempt no negotiate will mi ft fafely
conduit us out of our present difa«ulties ) —we
agree as to the object. but the manner to effect
that objeft, with honour to our nation is the
point oh which we are divided •• an amicable
adjuftinent of our differences then I take to be
the unanimous wilh, but Upon what terms ? On 1
a former occaSon it will be lecolle&ed that we |
adjusted a dispute with Great Britain by a trea- I
ty. An adjustment not inconsistent with the i
lioiiour, advantage, or jaftice of the nation, \
but confifleut with all. Tjik treaty received its i
proper ratification by every branch vf the go-!
Vernment, and I believe is become generally
popular—however, if it might have not met j
tl;e acquiefccnce, .it his the compliance of every 1
one ; notwithstanding what some gentlemen
would fay upon the fubjeit, I cannot believe
b'jf, had not the prejudice against the British j
nation been so prevalent, that treaty would I
have been fatisfaflory to all; but notwithstand
ing thai, we have done it to our fatisfaflion, ( I |
mean by a great majority of the citizens) al- '
though it might not be so in the fight of France. !
She fays by that ail we have violated our an- I
tecedent treaty with her. Now the ijueftiou
with us is whether this aflertion has foundation
or not: I mull fay I believe not. It was not,a !
treaty ofFenhve and defenfive we made with
her, nor to continue f®r ever ; this she well
knew, else why did (he not come forward and 1
fay to us, you are under obligation to join us ;
against our enemies I No, they kr.ew the con- !
tvarv, and the.---fore could not exa<9 it. We*
are ready to prove that nore of tie articles of
the British treaty does in the least contravene
that with France. ,
[To be continued.]
THURSDAY, JUNE 8.
The bill for preventing the exportation of
arms and ammunition was read the third time j
—when,
Mr. Lyon said, except the word cannons 1
were (truck out of it, he could *ot consent
to vote for the passing of the bill!
Mjc.W. Smith called for the yeas and
nays upon the paffmg of this bill, which
were accordingly taken, and were 79 in
favor of it, and 8 against it. The nays were
Messrs. Elmendorff, Findley, Locke, Ly
on, Macon, M'Clenachen, Nicholas, and
Venable.
Mr. W. Smith, from the committee to
whom was referred the bill for preventing
the fitting of privateers, made a report,
which recommended an agreement to alt the
amendments of the committee of the whole,
except one for prohibiting citizens from
taking command or entering on board of any
vessel with intent to cruise against vessels of
the United States, instead of which they
recommended another to be enadted in a se
parate law, confining this bill entirely to
private vefll'ls.
The House went into a committee of the
whole on this report, agreed to it, and after
wards took it up and agreed to it in the
House, and the bill was ordered to be en
gvoffed for a third reading.
Mr. W. Smith moved that a comnlittee
be appointed to prepare and report a bill to
prohibit citizens of the United States from
taking the command of or entering on board
any (hip at' of any foreign power. A
Committee of three was accordingly ap
pointed.
Mr. CoiT heljeved that some inconveni
ences arose from vessels which had been taken
prizes' from citizens of the United States,
being again fold to citizens of this.country,
atid from their obtaining frelh registers for
them, as the doing of it appeared to be an
additional inducement to captures. Pie
therefore proposed a resolution to appoint a
coromjticc to conftder the propriety of pro
hibiting tlie pra&ice, in future, which was
agreed to, and a committee of three ap
pointed.
Mrt W, St*ith moved that the House
take Hp the bjll which was under considera
tion yeftcrday,-when an adjournment took
jjlftrt, viz. the bill for raising additional carps
of artilufifts and engineers ; when
Mr. Macon said he (hould not renew this
motion for rejecting t!< : bill, as it might
c«i£ume mora time than letting it take its
regular covirfe.; but he did not think he
'.hewed any want ofcaiuior in wifliing to get
rid os-it iri that.way. The- gentleman from
South-Carolina talked as much about can
dor, aad Ibewed aa Ft(tie of it as man ill
that Honfe- The bill was referred to a com
tn?tl *e cf the v.'hclc, to-morrow.
Mr. L tvjNdfiTOhi said, that it was well
known that the qoinmilTipnerg for fettling
the British dells were now orgawzed and
vjr.dy to proceed U tiaSr.cfe. It had been 1
fuggefied that great evijs might grife fur '
want of an agent to *hcc':..tbe. claims of the i
Britifti ; lie (liould tlK'jrefore propose that
such ah agent be appointed. He laid a re
fohltion upon the "table, direfting that pro
riljon be made bylaw for enabling the Ex
ecutive to appoint an agent for this purpofi.
The house again rcfo'.vcd itCelf into a com
ttiittef Of tbC whole on the (late of the union,
and the fifth refokrtion. viz. that refpedting
the arming of merchants vessels, with the
amendments which had been yesterday of
fered, being under configuration.
Mr. Otis said it ought to be considered
that they were not about to giant a privi
lege to our vessels to arm in their own de
fence, but to modify that right, He tho't
all difcuflions on the law of nations were
secondary ; for j if our own law did no.t for
bid the practice, it was neceflary something
(hould be done to regulate it," and when the
bill was brought in, gentlemen might direst
tKeir objections to such parts of it as they
thought proper; There could be no doubt
that the law of nations warranted the prac
tice ; but it might.be our policy to put it
under a stricter control than other nations
had done, because all other commercial na
tions had fleets to protect their commerce.
He spoke of the difference of carrying arms
on board a vessel and using them.
Mr. O. referred to a provision in the law
of nations, which, if it did not positively
acknowledge the right of merchants vessels
of neutral nations to be armed, at least im
plied it. It was, that vessels of war have a
right to examine merchants vessels, and rf
they make any resistance, they (hall be con
sidered as lawful prize, which he said sup
posed them to be in a capacity to fight. It
was acknowledged that this power might be
abused, and therefore it was that he propo
sed to reftrift it in the mqft effeftual manner.
At preferlt there was nothing to prevent
the owner of any veflel from arming it, from
which great disorder might ensue, but the or
der of the Executive, which might be any
day revoked.; butthefe regulations were in
tended scrupulously to avoid cause of offence
to any nation, and the improper conduct of |
the captain of any vessel would be disavow- ■
ed. The only question was, which was the
best Way of doing this. All were agreed '
that the regulatibn would be proper to the i
East Indies and the Mediterranean, but there
seemed some doubt as to the propriety of
including the Weft Indies.
Mr. Otis contended, that if the danger
in the Weft India seas was as great from un
authorised cruisers as it were in the East In
dia or Mediterranean seas (and he thought
this had clearly appeared) the fame regula
tion ought to be extended to that quarter.
But it was said it might be the cause of war.
He took it for granted such reftridtions
would be made in the law as would prevent
any real pretext for war, and if the French
were determined to aft upon fpec'wus ones,
they would not want them ; and if they had
them not, they would manufacture them,
and nothing that we could do would prevent
them from making war upon us.
Mr. Otis denied that resentment could
have all the effe£t afcribedtoit, since it would
only operate to any effeft upon a few indi
viduals ; nor did he think the captains em
ployed in the Weft India service would be
less likely to consult the interests of their em
ployers and of their country, than those em
ployed in the East-India and Mediterranean
trade. He denied also that if a captain was
so imprudent as to force a vessel into a re
bel port that it would be a cause of war, nor
would the French Republic ever make it a
pretext of offence. Indeed, if it were a fa£t
that the unauthorized cruizers in the Weft
Indies were in rebellion to the French gov
ernment, we (hould, in fact be fighting their
battles by fitting out vessels to oppose their
unjuftifiable attacks.
The gentleman from New-York had ob
jefted to this proposition, because it appear
ed naked. He thought this no objection,
because the gentleman could take it out in
to the committee room and clothe it with
his own ideas. The gentleman from Penn
sylvania had said the expence would be an
objedtion ; but he might have known, that
no one would be forced into the regulation.
But it was said the merchants were against
arming their vessels. They were apt, he
said, to suppose,' that because half a dozen
persons with whom they conversed were of
their opinion, that every body thought a
like.
But suppose this was the opinion of some
merchants, did not they expeft there would
be other measures taken for the protedtion
of our trade. In order to put the matter
upon a right footing, gentlemen should fay
to the merchants, " We will do nothing ;
we are willing that privateers (hould not on
ly come off your Capes, but up to your ci
ty, and take your banks ; (he did not know
whether there would be any one found to
Welcome them) we want to go home ; the
weather getting warm, our own affairs have
r.eed of our attention." . But, added Mr.
O. if the merchants are averse to this pro
position, why do they not meet and declare
their opinions. If they were to do this, it
would have some weight with him.
Another gentleman had told them, that
the loss sustained by depredations upon our
commerce did not fall wholly upon our
merchants, but upon the public at large.
That the gentlemen from Pennsylvania
(hould have fupporteia theoretical idea of
this fort, would not have surprised liinf; but
that a gentleman, who was himfelf a mer
chant, lhould have given countenance to it,
was extraordinary. If the merchants and
insurers were to lose the whole of their capi
tals .by these fpoliatfons, would it be any
fatisfadtion to them to be told, that the far
mers would also be affedted by their losses ?
Or, if the matter was reversed, and a mil
dew ijiould destroy the crops of a number
of farmers, the iniafoitunc wcftild of'courfe
raise the price of grain, and the public
would be affedted by the misfortune, yet
the advance in price would be general, and
| the (jifrerirg would not be confined to those 1
whofV cropi bad been deftroycd.
Seeing then,faidMr. O.thatatircojEmcrce
is thus exposed, fliall we defiil from all pru
dcntrncafures* of prote&iilg'it ? Ifwedo,wc
fnalf be obliged to resort to the mortifying
alternative of putting our vessels undci'Bri
l'tjh convoys, or fuffer them to be captured ;
and he believed if nothing was done- for the
protection of cur trade, it would be foand
at the nekt feflion.of Cortgrefs, that all jhe
vefTels which had arrived fafe, would liave
been thus convoyed.
Mr. Otis concluded by A complaint at
the want of candor in charging gentlemen
who advocated this motion, with being ad
vocates of war ; he thought gentlemen had
used language in the course of the debate,
that they Would not have used out 'cf dcOrS.
He feared the time was coming wTien they
should be obliged to unite in the defence of
their common country, and he ithougbt it
would b; well to avoid all unreiuViable pro
vocation. But if gentlemen were determin
ed to fay, because he advocated the arming
of our merchants' veflels, that he advocated
a war proportion, and that it wo aid pro
duce war in fix months, he could not help
it. The public must judge betwixt them.
Mr. Varnum said the gentleman laftup
had taken much pains to P.iew that the citi
zens of the United States had a right to arm
their vessels, and to refill the attacks of fo
reign nations. If this were true, he was as
tonished the doftrine should have lain so long
dormant. But he believed right had not
been considered to exist, and he believed it
ought not to exist. Tho' the President had
forbidden the arming of merchants veflels,
yet gentlemen aflerted they had a right to
doit. (Mr. Otis interrupted Mr. V. to
read an extract from the President's speech
on the fubjetl, -where he fays he did not
doubt the policy andproppety of merchant's
arming thcirveffels. Mr. V. said the Pre
sident might not doubt the policy and pro
priety, and yet not be fatisiied as to the le
gality of the meafnre. If individuals had
this right, he hoped they should pass a law
before they rose to prevent its exercise ; as
he doubted not if this plan was gone into,
that this country would soon be involved in
the horrors of war.
Mr. V. wilhed to know what cause ex
isted at present more than for four years past
for going into this measure. Gentlemen
had brought forward many ideal depredati
ons committed by the French Republic, of
which no evidence had been attempted to be
adduced. They had proof indeed of three
or four veflels being taken into Francein the
report of Major Mountflorence, yet gentle
men exclaimed that our commerce was laid
at the feet of France. If this were so, why
did not the evidence lie before them ? The
cries of women and children which had been
the other day introduced, was not proof.
He believed those cries had been produced
by an overbearing spirit of speculation, in
this country, more than by the depredations
of any nation whatever. He saw nothing
in the French Republic like a wish to injure
the property of the citizens of the United
States. Mr. V. then took notice of the de
cree which they had pafled in refpedt to
the British, and doubted not, when our ne
gociators should fettle t'natbufinefs, that the
present misunderstanding would be done a
way, and they would be convinced of our
good wishes towards them. He did not
wonderthat the French should have been of
fended with this country ; he thought they
had cause for offenee in the British treaty ;
nor was he of opinion that our conduit tow
ards them had been more friendly than to o
ther nations, which he thought they had
some reason to expeit ; not but that he ap
plauded our executive in taking such a part
as was calculated to keep us out of the war.
He believed it would have been a wife tiling
j not to have entered into any treaty with ei
! thcr nation till the conclusion of the war.—
(The chairman reminded Mr. V. of the
| question.) He concluded with hoping we
j should wait the event of negotiation, with-
I out doing any thing which might eventually
lead to a war.
Mr." Nicholas would not again have
troubled the Committee had not the impor
tance of the question appeared to him to re
quire it. They were told that merchants
had a right -to arm their veflels, and a mo
tion was made to fanftion the arming of
them to the Weft Indies, in addition to the
East Indies and the Mediterranean, under
certain reftriftions. So that they were a
bout to admit the right of the merchants to
do the thing. It was neceflary therefore,
to enquire whether this was the praflice of
nations.
It was said there was no law to prevent
arming, yet the President had forbidden the
arming of merchant's veflels, except in cer
tain cases, and he flioidd not be willing to
believe that he would do what he had no
right to do. And surely no gentleman
would contend , that the President had the
power to do, or not to do, according to his
will. It was his bulinefs to execute the law,
and not to make it. He believed there had
been no hffitation, since the pafling of the
law in 1794, in believing that veflels arming
in the ports of the United States, were do
ing so with an intent to commit hostility.
To suppose the contrary, would be to bring
the Executive into a lituation which he did
not deserve.
The gentlemen declared it was their in
te'ntion to suppress a natural right. He
would not willingly dispute their intention,
but he believed this was not the whole-os it,
because the gentleman from S. Carolina had
' spoke of forcing our veflels into the rebel
ports of the Weft Indies, than which no
step could be taken which would sooner lead
to war. But gentlemen said that the law
of nations countenanced this doctrine, and
■said it remained with them who opposed it
to prove the contrary. The fact wire—the
law of nations was silent upoo this point.
But, if it h;d been a beneficial thing, and
conducivethe happiness of a country,
*rorcld'it not have been at some time aited
upon, and noticed by the writers or. the law
of intions ? Arid is not tlieir silence, nret
ty lirong evidence that the right was never
exerciTcd ? The reason of the cafe was
ftrong.agisaft the praftfee ; aj, if unreftrain
ed> it wa3 acknowledged it would lead di
rectly to war, as it "Would have a tendeacy
to v,okte the rights of. other nation#; and
if tl.is would be she natural cmifequcDce of
the meafnre unfeftrained; lie believed tie
fame effefts would be produced, and not-,
with (landing aav restraints which raigiit be
enafktl to regulate "the practice: And if
they, authorized a pratlice which, produced
an evi|, it would be the fame as if they au
thorized the evil. -
But gentlemen fay this measure could
give the French no real offence, and if they
would act from specious ones, they would
never be in want of them. Mr. N. said he
did not want to remove specious pretences
of offence,^and if this country gave no solid
ones, he should never be heard to raise his
voice in favour of France. But it was his
opinion this proportion was pregnant with
real offence.
The gentleman last up seemed to think,
that if the merchants were indisposed to the
measure, that it would not b< carried into
efle&, and of course could do no harm ; but
tho' the generality of merchants might be
opposed to it, yet there may be enough rea
dy to enter into it, to involve the country
m mifchief. For, they could not fay, thus
far it shall go, and no farther, nor would
any bond which could not be entered into be
an efiedtual security for our peace.
He was surprized to hear the complaints
of the gentleman just fat down with refpeft
to attributing improper motives to gentle
men ; since he believed that gentleman had j
himfelf been as reprehensible in this refpedt '
as any other. Indeed, this very day, he had
spoke of the French coming up to our
wharves, and intimated certain perforis
would be ready to receive them. He th'o't
the admonition came illy from one who had
been twice obliged to recant what he had.
said in this way.
Mr. N. concluded with hoping the a
mendment would be rejected ; nor did he
wish the resolution to be agreed to without
it, since he believed if it pafled that House,
it would not pass the Senate, and if any law
pasted on the subject, he wished it to be so
exprcfled as to do away the fuppdfition that
the right in merchants to arm was acknow
ledged.
Mr. Swanwick next spoke against the
motion ; he was followed by Mr. Harper,
on the other fide. Meflrs. Brooks, W.
Smith and Williams also supported the a
mendment ; and Meflrs. S. Smith, Giles,
Gallatin and Macon opposed it. The ques
tion was then taken on inferring the JVeJI
Indies and negatived, there being 35 votes
in favour of it, and against it 46. A mo
tion was then made by Mr. Harper, for the
Committee to rife, which was negatived—
there being only 32 votes in favour of it.
The question was tHbn taken on the firft a
mendment to insert Eajl Indies and the Me
diterranean, and negatived, there being 41
for it and 40 against it. The Chairman de
claring it to be negatived.
The question was about to be taken on
the resolution as amended, when Mr. Day
ton said he had an amendment to introduce ;
but as it was then past four oclock he should
move that the Committee rife. He would
just fay that his amendment was intended to
change the principle of the resolution alto
gether : It was to strike out reJlriS'tng, and
to insert " authorizing under certain regula
tion:." He could by 110 means agree to
give his countenance to a resolution that
should convey an idea that the merchants
had a right to arm their veflels, without the
previous consent of the legislature.
The Committee rose, and the House ad
journed.
By this day's Mail.
NORFOLK, June 1.
Yellerday arrived heie the Danish brig
Neutrality, from Bilboa, which fhc left the
14th April. In lat. 38, and long. ofMa
deira, on the 20th of April, spoke a British
privateer of 14 gun?, out fx days fromLifbon,
who informed that the Spanifn fleet had gone
into Cadiz ; and that the Engllfh fleet under
Admiral Jervis (reinforced>lo 22 fail of the
line) were cruizing off lhat harbour. Three
74s and several frigates .had gone home with
the Admiral's prizes.
3 t.
FEDERAL REPRESENTATIVE
By the mod accurate account, that we
have been able to procure, of the (lateof
of the votes in the Eafiern Diftri£l ? of the
choice of Federal Representatives, it appears
that the whole number is about 2850, of
which Mr. Parker has about 1550 being 300
more than Mr. Dearborn.
PITTSBURGH, June 3.
Extract of a letter fiom a gentleman in
Meadwdle, on French creek, ta his friend
in this town dated May 36, 1797.
" This day a violent florm of wind, hail and
rain in a foiith weft dire&ion took thfs place,
and has unroofed most of the houses in it—
your house info much injuied that I fear it
will have to be taken dpwn—nearly one half
of Wahab'i hotjfe is blown, dovvu—a son
of Mr, Dunes, was killed by the fall of
a rafter how far it has extended I cannot
yet learn.
GAZET7E MARINij LIST.
Tout of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED. DAYS.
Bffg Harmony, Norris, Gonaives 17
Schr. Jupiter, Burbazjk, New York .
Polly, Gaicfii er, RirhtnebH '
1 Welch, Carolina g
Auvfnture, Howe-, Virginia
!v£V7-Y'Jl'K:- T—.c 8.
v ; Cap*2i» O.arh]a:e, of the Irirr Trie,
'.whioh „*v-$ Kritfieniric : 3; t:. e" K avannah, arr tci
jLefon/l: y tLcalovc \\ .c ir: tl clng Flora.
H*affair Uai cac.-of il)-: C.ithajcn i fleet (a
> lij; 1 peji before he tailed, with
1 ' the news that slit ft linns were tal.cn
r an tv ; o <?c-:kT and » ; th*)
hcv:fir on heard two millions of Dollar", befi !ca
o:her v&lustle property.
/♦ full and fatufa<Slory. confirm rticn of th* abovf
i* also received by'Cipt. White, cfthe Suffolk,
whoj in-thc latrof \Xt -bcttfetn tko Florida
and the B*nk&J fe'.l in .\ifth.ihrro Spanilh
frigate*, 3rd a-lour gun .vvhohad Lccn
sent out for the jurpofe o£ picking up the scattering
vcffelsof tiie convey \ asthfr English not bf j
»ng able to n>an th? whole has ft ripped fntfral of
thefhips of ..-their valuables, and then let thorn go.
I hi? t# •.rparn White by the
conjinfidore. ; £>)'r jLd this fail'of convinc
ing arty one, if «fHH fnf'her cc~; Capt.
Church of his M }?jlyls Topaz, -who, on
flie 2ci infb boarded Capr. White, ?n,d rgfrt; him*
ilmi,'ar information to rhe above. The number of
taken, was fupfcokd to be about i£
fa J.
C -tj;. on his ctlrward heund paftig?* was
pfEP iat a n 'd shot at by fever.tl French picaroon*
.but the weight of his metal k-pt them at a BAf *
dilUnce.
ARRIVED. *
Ship Suffolk; White, Jamaica i 3
Brig Flora, Bower®, Havannah *8
PoJIy, Builock, 'Savannah 7 .
Schr. Sally, Thurfton, Jamaica
Antelope, Ch'advviclc, Norfolk 10
Sloop Virginia, Sogang, Norfolk 3
CLEARED,
Ship Etlice, Hervpy, London
Brig Gco*£c, Tai/, Port de Paix
Schr.-Sally, Gs:r, - St. Augwftir.o
The Brigantine Portland, capt. Marr, is fate
arrive 1 at Kingftort Jamaica frort Halifax.
BOSTON, Sunday June 4.
Arrived fchooncr Spec hvcll, Capt Butler , $j
days from Cadiz. The following lill of Amcr.c-ti
veifcls, captured by ohe French and Spanish priva
teers en the coast of Spain, is received a
merican Con£ul,at Cadiz, v 7.
Ciifriedinto Cadiz, brig Elizabeth, Gardner, of
Philadelphia ; fl>'p Mary Ann Smith, ot do.Po
facre br<g Independent, Kobertlon of do brig
Geo'ge, Rust, oi
Carried into Alg ziras, fljip Albemarle, Lang,of
Newyork; brig Difcatch, Brown, of Plulr»delph: i
Ihip Columbus', Crothiric,. of .Dartmouth ; fliip
Pomona, Grout of Boston ; Snow Mary, Bum*
ham of do.
Carried into Ccuta, Brig Minerva, Bray of
Philadelphia ; fthr. Speedwell, Stor< y r ol soll«>nj
fchrs. Rebecca,Mone ; Minerva, Williams, Mar
tin, R«ger*of Cape Ann.
BALTIMORE June 6-
TJie (l ip Sidney of thia port, capt. Jamei
Parker, from Surinam tp Baltimore, was cap
tured on the I 2th April by a British priva
teer, the Portland of Antigua, ind finttoSt.
Kitts, where the captain wrn reftifed peimif
fion to go on (hore—cxpefted her to t>c libel
led the'nsxt day.
THIS DAY IS VUBLJSHJiU,
(Neatly bound and lettered, price 2 dols. 15 cte.)
Bv G. DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER C? STATIONER,
No, 48, North Third Street,
Ihe Adventures of Telemachus.
French and Enfrfifti, 1 vols, iiino.
AMONG the books which daily fall wto'th*
hands of the yeuth of both fexee, none
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele
machus. she miit interesting lesions are here
1 conveyed in the vehicle of an interesting Poem,
replete with the finefl touches of the true pa
thttic, and embellfhcd with all the graces of a
beautiful style. The fatal effefls of indulging
the paflions are exemplified in the rr.oft {lnking
manner j and the liappinefs attending inno
cence and virtue painted in the lirelieft colours.
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice i whatever can enlighten the undedUnd
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this intereftine wrrk
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Di<ftionary»
containing a full and accurate account, aipha
beticaily arranged, of all the countries and ill
ands in the known world ; ftcy.'ir.g their lati
tude, foundings, and stations for anchorage j
with a particular description of the fever a I Bays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Guifs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Kivers, lioada, Hocks, Sands, Shoah,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the shape and appearance at Jea, of the l'evs
ral Headlands, Whmufes, Peninsulas, Points,
Frorrontories, and whatever is ofufe or impor
tance to the Mailer, Pi!ot, Comitiand-r, or
Seaman cf any fljip or VfCtl, in navigating the
watery element.
Afo Comprehending
Ampla Direilicfis for tailing into or out of the
different Ports, Strait?, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding
dangers on the varinus ahd extended coa'is ; in
which more than twelvethoufand diilrin<fl names
of places, are treated »f and explained. With
a correcT set of Chart", t vols. Bvo. price 6 dols.
By the Uev. JOHN MALHAM,
0- This has been pronounced ilie mod ufe
ful and the cheapen bookpubliflied in America.
June 9. dtf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, end cheaper than any other in
the Citv—
OF VAKIOm SIZES,
Ftom 8 by 6 to 19 by 14J
By the (ingle Box or QOanii-y, may be had at the
S ore of the Sublciibers, comer of Arch and Front
llrect.
'James C. & Samuel W, F'Jher.
Philadelphia,
Lailson's CIR.CUS,
South Fifth-Street
\ 1
To-Morkow Evening, June 10,
WILL BE HFRFORMHI),
Various Equestrian Exercises,
And, oil>er STAGE ENTERTAINMENTS—
Cd" Particulars-ill the bills of the day.
A Cony Stolen
ROM the owner at the corner of Nintn
and Arch ilreets. She is a deep red"
brindle with fonie white, about ten years
old and very gentle. The.person who Se
cretes her hid belt turn her out, as, iflegal
evidence can be obtained, he may expedLa
rigdroui prosecution. TWO DOLLARS
rc ,<rard will be given to any person who wiil
deliver the Gow, or give such evidence a
gainst the peffon keeping her, that he may
be convicted of the fa&. Apply at
No. 218, Akch SniKT.
Jut?e 9. tawyjr
tor St. inom-ds,
<a THE
Ann and Mary,
Captain Baits ;
WILL fall id ten days. For
fireiirlu or reffase appVy. to
' T, COPPINGER.
No. 221, South Front Jlrtet.
June o. diet
June 9.Injirunieni Manuf<ifloty,
N». 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
fid >board, pier table and square piaro tone
tnakcr from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his aflidttity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the neweff
and inoft approved plans, with pedals, patent,
IVcIL, and French harp flop, wh>ch he fiattei •
himfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
Judges, to be equal if not fupericr to any import
ed, and twenty per cant cheaper. Any inftru
tnjnt purchased of him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Mufic.il inftruments'tnade,
tuned, and repairer with the greateil accuracy,
dispatch, and on the molt reasonable, terms 1 tut
ready money only. •
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May ie. u&am.
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second street.
- 'TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
X commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
BALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the dra%ting advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thaufand dollars each, on the last day ot
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and rcgifter
(ng, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Walhington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the summer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c-&c. tranfaded with the
utmost attention.
lime 1 tu&f
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Tradts of Land,
IN the county of Glynn and date of Georgia,
wiU be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
on the evening of Tuesday the 27th day ot June
peat, at the Merchants CofFee-Houfe in this ci
ty, unless previously disposed of by private sale.
id. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town of Brunfwick,
originally granted to John Howell, and withia
6 iriles of the Atlantic ocean.
2d. 25,000 acres on the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally gwnted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. 50,000 acres on the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of BufTaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road pafles through
these lands, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally granted te
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, furveycr, and from" Major
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the
body of these lands ar£ not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide water ;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large
veiTrls within ten miles of them ; that they are
chiefly firft rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the date of Georgia,
poflefling the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementioned certificates, together with '
the patents, drafts, andother papers relpeffiiig '
the title, which it complete and unincumbered,
are in the pofTeflion of the fubferibers and may
be seen by applyitigto Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 5, South 4th Street. The terms of pay- j
ment will be one third calh, the remaining two .
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble irrthree and fix months after the sale; a
conveyance to be made to each purchaser on tbe ,
payment of that moiety of the noted received
from him «|hich becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans' Court,
'will be fold at PUBLIC SAI%E, at Cranberry, on
IVidnefday, tbe l\th day of June next y all that valuable
REAL ESTATE, late belonging to the Rev. Gilbert
T. Snpwden, deceifed, lying in and near Cranberry, in
the county of Middlefcx, toxvnfhip of South Brunpwickj
/late of Neiv Jcrfey, uf>on the lower Jlage road leading
from Philadelphia to Nnv Vori. A very elegant frame
house in a beautiful and healthy Jjtuation, pair.te l white,
rvitb Venetian window fbutters, thirty feet front and
thirty-eight feet deep, two rooms with a handsome hall or
entry on the frjl floor, three rooms on tbe second floor and
two wdl-fn'ijhedgarrets. In the rear <f the house is an
excellent two-flory building conftfting of a dining-room for
work people, spacious pantries large kitchen, with
irvery convenience, and over these are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building confifiing
of 0 chamber below and a library above-—under the whole
are very fne cellars paved with brick. • The house is en
tirely new and finifhed with tafe. Every room is hut.g
with bells that lead both to tbe kitchen and tbe fcrvunts *
apartments : there is a pump in the yard; and a flone
and brick pavement round tbe whole house, which is enclos
ed with • a handsome railing, with three gates in front.
The farm confifls of one hundred and sixty seven acres,
•with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, (la
hlety carriage-bouse, cow-bouses, life, all ntnv, and built
in tbe befl manner . with a young orchard of 200 grafted
trees-. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of IVoodland
of tljebejl quality, containing t, J-acres. Also a trail ef
land within seven milet of Cranberry, containing one hun
dred and fifty acres, three-fourths meadow and tbe red ex
cellent timber. This will be fold in lots or together, as
will befl suit tbe pur chafers.
The payments, one thirdcafh- one third in one year—
and the remaining third\ one year following, with intereif
on the two lajl payments, and approved feevrity.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,
•'or Dr. Ralph Loft, Cranberry ; of Isaac Snow den, j
at Princeton ; or of Isaac Snow den, fun. No. 141 South
Second Jlreet, Philadelphia.
May 15 §6mwftS
Notice.
A LLperfons indebted to the EAa*e of Sarah ,
XX Marshall, deceased, are requested to make .
immediare payment, and those have demands
against said eflate, are dcfired to bring in their ac
counts f roperlyattefted for settlement, to either of
the fubferibers. Christc.phkr Marsh all, Jr.
1 * Caspar W. Haines,
Abraham M. Garri6ubs,
Administrators so the Eilate of Sarah Marshall,
deceased. Jane 3 2UW3W
Just publilhed,
By J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut-ftrcet, and to be j
had of tb<* other Bockfellers also,
An Address to the Graduates in
Medicine :
Dclivncdata Medical Commencement in theUUn- t
uerfßy of Pennsylvania, held NJay 12th, 1797, By
John Andrews, D. 1). Vicc-Piovoft.
June 6. eojp
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrail ot an act passed by the Legislature of
the (late of Maryland on the 29th December,
, ' 179!) entitled, "An aA for ere&ing a bridge
' over Potowmac river.
* *• And be it enafled, that the fa id dire<3ors or
> any two of them (hall and may require any sum
" or fumg of money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necessary for carrying on the building of said
' bridge; and after giving three months public
j notice, it (hall and may be -lawful for the direit
* ors tfc sue for and recover in the name of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all colls
( and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time the fame should have
been paid: And the aeglefi or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice (hall have
' been given at lead for three mouths in all the
' newspapers heiein before enumerated, (hall have
the efleft to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the (bare or (hares so negledled or refuled to
be paid t® the use and benefit of the compahy."
'I he above extract is publilhed for the infor
mation of such of the ftoekholders as have not
complied with the requiiitions heretofore made
—they are as follow : On the id November,
1795, 20 dollar?, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the »oth July, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and 011 the
1 xfl November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
intorigid and complete efTeil against all delin
quents.
By order of the Directors,
WALTER SMITH, Tnafunr.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. lawjm
Lbucafter, Harrijburgh, Carli/le,
Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requtfled to take notice, that
the partnership which has far some time sub
sisted between! Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved: but, not as M.
Slough inflnuates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Aay gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal »f M. Slough'? letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether pr not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjun<slion with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to profecutii and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the pafiage hie and rommodious, inform
those wno wifb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign as the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg,
Carlisle and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will dart every Wfcdnefday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from the»ce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that paflengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages Harts' from the
house of William Ferrae, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at <5 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
For Sale,
At this Office,
No. 119 Chcfnuljlreet,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Senate, on the fubjed of the
GEORGIA LANDS.
March 13 §
Dutch Gunpowder.
A quantity of the befl Dutch Gunpowder for
sale by Samuel Breek, jun. No. 89, south Third
ftreet.
May 27. eo6t
For Sale,
By Samuel Breck, jun, at his Compting-houfe,N»,
89, South Third-street,
A quantity of the bejl
Boston mess Beef in whole and half barrels.
fit for (hip's use
Do. Pork do.
A quantity of Sherry Wine
A few Pipes Oil Proof Brandy, just landed
from Bordeaux
Chocolate in Boxes
Rice, Cotton, CaftileSoao, and
Four or five Bales large Orange Peels, &c.
May 27. co6t
Spanifli Language.
WANTED, a person well qualified to trans
late Spanilh papers and documents into the
Englilh language. Such a one who can produce
unexceptionable recommendations, and is desirous
of immediate employment, will please to make
application in writing at the office of the Com
mifiioners for carrying into effefl the twenty-firft
article of the treaty of frieHdfhip, limit 6 and navi
gation, between his Catholic majesty and the Uni
ted States of America, — during office hours, or
at the office of PETER LOHRA, Sec'y.
Philadelphia, Ju«e I. 2
St. Andrew's Society.
AT a quarterly meeting of the St. Andrew'!
Society, held at. the Golden Swan, last evening,
the following gentlemen were unanimously eleded
members thereof:
Lord Henry Stewart,
The Honorable Thomas M'Donald,
Mr. William Alexander,
Capt. Duncan Rose,
Mr. James Thorhur,
Mr. James Stuart, jun.
Mr. William Gardner,
Mr. Samuel Campbell, of N. Y.
The trealurer, Mr. Shields, prcfcuted to the
meeting the statement of the funds of the society {
whereupon, it was
Resolved, that he be requefttd to continue hie
strenuous exertions to colled in the arrears due to
the 1 oor fund, and to make report of his foccefs
thereiu at the next quarterly meeting. 1
Richard Lake, Secretary.
June 1. jp
To be Told at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the lign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on tie 35th
day of Oflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between ReifterVtown and Weliminfter,
commonly called Little Winchtfter, (the tum-
I pike road runs through a confiderabie partjof
these lands) the tradl begins alnrnt 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dif
-1 tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and 11 v on the main falls of Patapfico
■ river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to_
three .hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each traifl,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grifs.
ALSO,
A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenlhurg, e(teemed oery good for Graft.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenfburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A trad of land ©f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeil, from which may be fceH the
city of Wa(hington, Bladenftmrgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenlburg, will also (hew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money, she terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 w3m
An elegant House in Arch-ltreet.
TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
elegant House at the corner of Arch and Ninth-street
There are two drawing rooms and one dining room
—the largest is 3a feet by 26—and two are so con
nefled by folding doors at to make but one. Also,
five bed rooms, be fide five in the garret, well finifti
ed for fervanis. There are ftobles and a coach house,
with every convenience for a family. Enquire at No.
29, in North Seventh-street, or at No. *lB, Arch
ftreet.
Also to be rented for the summer season, a small
neat house and garden about 3 1-2 miles from the
city, with ftablcs and coach house. Enquire as above.
June 6. aawgw
This Day is Published,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Book fellers,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on tVove paper 9 and Hot
prtjfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
clafling together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of administration; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
LL. D. and member of the Congreft of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of tht United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4ths of a dollar.
February 6 ipwf
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice confifling of the following
Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins
WILLING Ear FRANCIS.
March 27. j aw
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufa<Jlured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Bmton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-cade or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home confuinption—
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street.
18 tu 4 w
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
\ May \J}y 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arreai6for any sums due on their
refpeflive (hares, are requeued to pay the
fame.
WrLLIAM GOVETT, Treasurer.
10 QI4W
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every morning (Sundays exceptecft at half part 7
o'clock.
The Mail for Boston will be closed every day
(Sundays excepted) at 12 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederica, Milford, Clowes, Dagfbo
rough, Delaware, Horntown, AatomackCourt-Houft
and Northampton Court-Houi'e, Virginia, will be
closed every Monday morning at hall past 7 o'clock.
_ M *y »fl. *iat
rJzekiel Hall
HAS removed his Compting Room to Jones's
Wharf, where he has for sale
24 hogsheads Cod Fish.
A Jlore tollet/ t
In Water-street, between Market and Arch-streets.
May 29. 6p
A Compting House to let.
THE Compting House formerly occupied by
Mr. John E. Caldwell, on Rofs' wharf, will
be vacant on ift June —and for hire to any person
who may apply for fame. For terms enquire of
the printer hcteaf.
May .u. eo6p
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
Pinckney.
A few copies of the above intsraAing paper
may be had at the office of the Gazette of thcU
nitedStates.
May n § •
A FEW BOXES OF ,
Bologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, to be Sold at No. ,
199, South Front-Sirect.
Aprilso, eolf
j A New Work. .
PROPOSALS
For printing and publishing, by fubfeription, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from theoriginslinftitutionand,
settlement of that province, under the firit propria
etor and governor, William Pknn, in 1681, 'till
after the year 174*; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpe&ing the Life of W.PENN,
Prior to the grant of. that Province, and the relU
ginus Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORINGCOUONIES,
mere particularly of WEST-NEW- JfcRSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DELA
WARE. -
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general ilate, in which it flourifhed,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The
whole including a variety of things, ufeful and in
. terefting to be known, refpefting that country in early
time, See. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years 17 76. and 1780,
By Rcbsrt Pkoud.
" Pu/chrum eji bentfacere reipublicae, etiam benedicere
baud abjutdum ji t vtl pace v<l belio clarum fieri licet.*'
v tal. Catalin.
44 Sed cum plerique arbitrcntur res bellicas majorcs eje
quam urbanas, mwucndacß hac opinio.'*
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law.)
41 WILLI AM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in Pennsylvania) had the fucceis of a con
queror, in eflablifhing and defending his colony, a
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing tbefword ;
the goodness of the moll benevolent rulers, in trea
ting hisfubje&s as his own children ; and the tender
ness cf an universal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without dillin&ion o4 fe& or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the proie&ion and emolument of the State*"
£jfay on Toleration, by Arthur o*Lemry.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two o£tavo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper simi
lar to that of the conditions, as ptblijhed in thcSubJcrip
tion papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
(ketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume-
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calf;—one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubferibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firftj volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out to press and finifhed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jun Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftieet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pleafants and George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other pcrfons both
in town and country*
February t6* tu3cf
Gold and Silver Watches,
OF an excellent quality, and neat faihionable
Gold Chains, Seals and Keys, Eight Day
Clocks and Time Pieces, faihionable Steel and Gilt
Chains, &c. &c. for Sale by
JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. 38. S. ad street.
£s* Clocks and Watches of all kinds carefully
repaired.
May 19. tuef. & fa. jw
Imported in the jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin (
Young Hyson (
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
For Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, No. Ix 9, Chefnut-ftreet,
The laji Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury; being a brief history of the
state of financial (-oncerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpeiling the western in
furre&ion : Containing many faifls and cir
cumstances no where else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
ourminifter in France. 37 1-1 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditurec of the United States for the year
1 795-
A few copies of the volume.for 1794 may be
had to complete setts.
D'lvemois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. 12 I-a cents.
A P r 'l 3-
GOLD AND SILVER
Bullion.
THE highest price in ready money will be gi
ven for gold or silver bullion, old gold ar
silver, or gold duii, at No. *9, North Seventh
ftreet.
April 20 sa\»6w
This Day is published,
By THOMAS DOB SON,
At the Stoni Houst, No. 41 fouthSecond-ftreet,
Price 37 1-2 cents,
Iwo Letttires on Combujlion.
QUpplcmentary to a course of LeiSures onCHE
-0 MISTRY ; containing an Examination of Dr.
Priestley's Considerations on the Dodrine of Phlo
giston, and the accompofition of Water,
By JOHN MACLEAN,
Profcflor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy
in the College of New-Jersey.
May 22 mwfjp
To Let,
Andpojfjjlon given in t<wi witls,
A good 3 story Brick House,
With back buildings—Ns. 43, Spmce-flrtet.
Apply at No. 109 Spruce-lireet.
May s6 §6t
TO BE SOib, r
And pofleffion giv«n immediately,
A Lot of Land j
OITUATF.p in Mount-Holly, in the county
O of Burlington, in New-Jersey, lately occu
pied by Francia Bullus, Esquire, upon which an
an escellent brick house, two ftcries high, with
four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good
stable, carriage house and other buildings. The
fitualion is valuable forbufinefs of any kind, and
at least equal to ar.y other in the town.
The terms of payment will be made easy to
the purchafec. Apply to William RolTell, Esq.
uirc, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in Mount-Holly, or to the Suhfrriber, in the city
of Burlington.
JOSEPH M'ILFAINE.
Burlington, 27th April M ayj—
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
Fir the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificentdwelling-houfc ao,ooo dollars,'
& cash 30,000, are 50,e0«
1 ditto 15,000 ft cafli *j,oo« 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calb 10,000 so,o«o
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,00® fit cash 5,«e0 to,ooo
I ca(h prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 oach, are ■ 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
»o do. 500 - • - 10,000
00 do. 100 - \ - lo,oeo
aoo do. 50 - - »o,o®o
400 do. »5 *. - so,ooo
1,000 do. »a • 10,000
J5,00« do. to - J50,60t(
16,739 Prizes.
33,161 Hlanki.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. thofewh® may take v quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the .las?
but oni :
And approved nous, fccuring payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be el ected in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful deiigns arc already
fele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from'thefe drawings it isprop'ofed to ere&
two centre and r our corner buildiags, as soon as pos
sible after this lottery is fold, and to cetiyey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurars, in
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerlity, to
be creeled within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Frizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Walls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every flage of
that disease, without the use of mercury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and limple. on
application at (No. 113, Chefnut-ftrect, opposite
the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter-street, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
he has opened an office fqr the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
pledges himfelf, that nofyftem of cure (hpwever
specious) can be effectual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of pra&ice for thele two
centuries past, and united experience affirms, that
any fubftitut* for it is but nagatory, and any mode
of practice to the contrary must be futile and de—
ceptious.
Nevertheless, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effect a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's constitution, ar.d
in time not generally experienced or expected.
N B. Regular attendance at tl office in Wattr
ftreet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven; but any other time at his dwelling
house, in Chefnut-ftreet.
Mayi6. dtf
T O~BrE SOLD,
A valuable three story Brick House ;
SITUA TE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on whicft it Hands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-fireer. The houle is about 50
feet in froi|| on Lodge-alley, and about 41 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 41 feet on Goforth
ftreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut -
street and Carter's alley into Dock-llreet at the
Jiorfe market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two diniog
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire plac«s, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with extensive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant let
of ground to the eastward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house pa
Goforth-ftreet. The prcmifes now rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Sleeker.
April to 3awtf
Important Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette Of the
United States,
No. 119 Chefuut-Strcet,
[PtICt ONI BOLLAR AND tITTT CZNTsJ
A FEW COPIES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF TUE UNITED STATES,
Tor the Year ) 795, —
Being the Latcst Period to whicft an account
can be made up.
February i». A §.
Valuable Books.
Anew importation, from London, just received
and now opening and felling by J. QkMROD, No.
41, Chefnut-ftreet.
March 19. f « ; ,p
Philadelphia and Lflncafter Turn*
pike Company.
A meeting of the Stockhojtjers of th» Phila
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
be heM at the Company's Office, on Monday,
10 o't-lock, the Jithjune next.
WILLIAM GOVET.T. Sec'ty.
M »y ft 4*.
William Haydon,
Drawing Majler, from London {
WHERE he studied several years under one
of the most eminent mailers in that sci
ence. He atteflds young ladies and gestfertien
at their refpeflive homes. Hii terms are 'fix
dollars per month for attendance three times
per week ; l jcewife all kind of ornamental
painting, fruit, flowers, 4cc. taught on the above
terms.
A line dire<3ed to W. Haydon, No. a 6, Pear
street, will be immediately attended to.
W. H, flatters himfelf his terras will be par
ticularly advantageon?, where there are several
pupils in the fame family ; a, he makes no al
teration in h'9 terms if there are two or three
to teach in eoe family.
May 9.