of the tn J&tates, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.-
Number 1472.]
For Sale or Charter,
THE SHIP •
WARREN,
Htnjamitt Church, Master.
Vi' 1 , J}' "2CV~ OF abntt tSo tofti burthen. En
w <] uirc of
Jeffs & Rokrt Wain- \
May 16 5 a
t
l or Freight or Charter„ t
To any part of Europe, '
7be Sveedifb Ship ,
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl O. Ehsman,
/j BOUT no torn burthen, in this Dort ; and
r - also theDaailh Ship FREDERICK JITI.IUi
KAUS, of 430 tons,now lying In Roadi.
Apply f,. JOHN VAUGHAN.
if* tuthf6t
John Tarris, matter. [
AG&EAT part of her cargo i» efi«age;l, and s
fte will fait in ten days. Fnr freight or pa!- ,
4aee apply to cap:. Tarris, at Willing* & France' (
wharf, or to GUJiW£Y k SMITH. I
May 15 § i
For London,
:§|§gs wjlujm'FENN, j
James Josiah, Majler.
VTriLL fail with all toiver.icat speed. For
W freight or passage apply to
JeJJe is? Robsrt V/aln.
0" The owners of Goods in the (hip William
Penn, are requeued to fend their permits on board
as Tuoli as polfibls.
May 19 §
United States, 1 ~
Fennfylvaaia Dijlric!, y"'
Notice is hereby given,
r "r , H AT in purfaance ol a writ to me dire&ed
JL from the honorable Richard Peters, Esq.
Judge of the Diftridt Court of the Wnited States -
is .md for the Pennsylvania Diftrid, will be ex- i
rosed to {ale at the merchants' coffee-houfe in this
city, on the 17th day of this instant, May, at 11
o'clock at noon,
The Schooner or Vejfel called
, THE BETSEY, J
With all and singular her tac
kel, appatel and furniture (whereof an inventory
may be teen at my office) the fame having been
libelled against and condemned in the (aid Diftriit
Court, for the payment of mariner's wages, &c.
William Nichols, Marjhal.
marshal's orrici,7 e01?M
17th May, 1797. ) '
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Langdtn from BourJeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
CONSITING Ot
5*4 hhds. of Claret 2
si 7 cases of ditto -o
100 c fe» of Sweet Oil
no pipes London proof > brandy. | |
10 pipe j of Holland proof J j m -a
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. .115, South Front St.
j-—* Said Brig,
y WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
burihen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in cottiplete or
der, and will be rsadf to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
M.yzV ■ , $
To Let,
And pojfejfion given in two Willi,
A good 3 story Brick House,
With back buildings—No. 43, Spruce-street.
Apfilj at No. 109 Sfruce-ftteet.
May s6 s6t
For Safe,
A large new House,
Situate on the north fide of Arch-street, above
Seventh-street. May be viewed at any time,' and
particulars known by application to
SAMUtL W. FISHER.
No. 13, Arch street.
May 16 ap
JOHN CRAIG
HAS jtifl imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho mas, and for ile on reasonable terms
by thepackage,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Kouens
Poll and Pro Patrii Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Vloops, in Butdles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
' Best Red Clover Seed
> Old Madeira Wine, lit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and l'ecpnd Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hoglheads
Jamaica Spirits
Cortneflicut Turpentine 3oap
Window Glaft
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotton
Hosiery
April 18. 4 avr
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice consisting of the following
Coill Good*, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 puniums .
Do. do. fi'ie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Mullics
WILLING fcf FRANCIS.
I March 27. 3 lw *
F HIL A DEL
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia,
cn the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, if not before disposed of at private
sale,
40,(331 1-2 acres of land, on the
water* of Wheeling and Fishing creeks, in Walh- 1
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark 4 j
ably fertile ; andbefides a large body ofj meaaow,
there are conG<Jerable on the pre
mifes. These were patented in 1787- On
payment of part of thepurphafe money, a reason- -
able credit will be given for the reiidue. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15. §tS
\1 he Commilfioners
FOR carrying iijt« effed the TWENTY -FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein concerned, —That,
in order to terminate all differences, on account of
the lefies sustained by the Citizens of the United
States, in confequer.ee of their VefTels and Car
goes having b-cn taken by the Subje&s of His Cath
olic Majeily, during the late Vv r ar between SpUin
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applicatioas, authorised
by the'faid Articl#, during Eiem ssn Months,
Irom the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine ail such persons a3 come before
them, 011 oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and alio to receive in evidence, ]
all writt n tellimony, authenticated in such man- !
lier as they flia.ll think proper to require or admit. I
By Order of the Commit/ionsrs,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
CommiJjioners Office, ho. 109, Mulberry-
Jireet, Philadelphia, May i~th, 1797.
20—$4w
Just received,
And for sale by Ifaar Harvey, ju'tt. No. 5, South
Waier-rtreet,
A pareel of prime Rice ; also,
Tnnidad and Cayenne Cotton
Coffee in Barrels and Bags
Spauifh Hides and Beef.
4th mo. 25, 1797. d4W*
A *'— 1 '
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
A meeting: of the Stockholders of the Phila
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
be held at the Company's Offiee, on Monday,
10 o'clock, the iathjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT, Sec'-y.
May u. fr 4W.
■ r M
NOW LANDING,
From 011 board ps the ship GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alestir, from
1 Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
Colas Punjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
Guzeenahs India Calicoes
t.mrrtii's Obtton Checks
Mamoodiis Mulmuls
Sahans Red and Blue Eernjgcu
hkfs
Tieketies Patna do.
JplUs SantipcK do.
C-rridarries Plain, striped and How.r
ed fine muslins
Miragunges Ginghams
Bafcas, various forts Taffeties
Sattln Romals Bandnnno red hks.
ALSO,
300 Cafcs Sugar
40 Boies do.
i 65 fijgs da.
70,000 lb, weight hfavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
10 T(n:311-m p in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
For falfe by PHILIPS, CRAMOND Erf Co.
May 4. dtf
—\ \i n ? -.-- - " 1 ' ' 1 1 '
For Sale,
ON board the snip Moll*, John Frost, mifier
from Liverpool, lay'wfe at Walniit-ltrec't wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUtEN'S W A RE, well a!T ncd,
By PHILIP NICKLIN y Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORS, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHaVanna Sugart
Imperial and) T £ A #
Hyson )
17 tubs QuickijlYer
2 cheits llandanno Handkerchiefs
A few cbefts Manchester Goods well aflbrted
in corduioys, thicksets, ginghams, muflin'ets,
dim it its, &c. 1 Trunks black fewitig li!k,
itlo Crates queens ware, well aflorted,
10 Tons lheet lead,
Nail> assorted, flat and sharp points,
London particular and ) Madeira Wine in
India market j pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tenerifte W iae,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 11 bundles writing slates,
1 bcx ink-stands & note presses,
Sail canvas sSorted No. I a 8.
May 4. ,dtf
Rofs 8c Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A Quantity of prime
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Litbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
tn Mideira Calks
A few Qnarter Chests best
F/'?' H^ f ° n lnd \ TEAS
Hyson Skin }
1 Muscovado Sugars in Hoglheads, and
Coflee in Tierces
March 7. ( II
Eilkine's View of the War.
% JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A Viczu of the Causes and Confequen
css of the present War with France.
By the Hu.iorab'e Thomas Esskini.
May rj •
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Cbefnut Street
PHI A: SATURDAY EVENING, MAT 27,1797.
Millinery Room, l
No. 136 Market-Jlrcct.
Jims CIIRYSTAL V(
TAKKS an early opportunity ef acquainting a \
her Friends that Ihe has received by the p
Wii.uam Psnn. a variety of NEW Ml- S
LINERY, Stc. which (he hdpes to be able to "
Ih .-w thejn in a few days. I 1; '
May iS s3ot
Now Landing,
At Pratt's wharf, ■
FROM on board the (hip Thomas ChiJkley,
Capt. Kafir, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
> Red Sk'ns in boxes
Fcr Sale by
Rundle 5s 3 Leech.
May 15 §
Bush Hill.
■ f<
Messrs. Bates and Darley, j
Of the NEW THEATRE,
"O &fpc&ftrlfy inform tite citizens of Phils delphia
iv and its environs, that they have taken the
manor house and grounds of Bttlh Hill (the pro
perty of Wiliiam Hamilton, Xifq.) and are now
preparing to open them by SuUcription, for the
general accommodation and amu&ment of the pub-
lie, under the name of the
PennfylvaniaGardens and Hotel.
Particularly during the Sumrr.ar season, will be ,
given (three tirres per week)
CONCERTS
Of Vocal and Injlrummtal Muftc, r
After the manner of the Public Gardens Paris,
Vauxhall, London, Sic. &c. _
The Entertainments for the eufuing summer sea- '
son, p<f lively to commence .
THE FIRST WEEK IN JUNE. [
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION. t
One hundred Subfcribcrs, atone hundred dollars
each. The money to be repaid the fubferibers at '
ten annual payments of ten dollars each.
And each fubferiber to hold a free ticket of gen- '
cral admiflion to all public performances in the 2
Gardens, for the term of ten summer seasons. f
The tickets to be made transferable at the option
of the fubferibers, by giving timely notice to the
Managers, previous to the commencement of s
season, and having the fame regiflcred accordingly.
Subscriptions received by Meflrs. Bates and Dar
ley at Bulh Hill, where tickets for the season only,
may be had at twelve dollars each.
N. B. Admittance to non-fabferibers on each
ConcertNiglit, Half a Dollar.
V I*e notice will be given of the commence- I
ment. May 25 5p
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co. J
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly affofted, very low ell
short credit.
March 6. §
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans * Court,
tvill be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at Cranberry, on
Wednesday, the 14th day of June next, all that valuable
REAL EST AT E t late belonging to the Rev. Gilbert
T. Snoiudcn, deceifcd, lying in and near Cranberry, ih
the county of JM.idJUfex y toivnjhip of South Brunftxiiih,
' Hate of New Jersey, upon the lower ft age road leading ,
from Philadelphia to New Turk. A very elegant frame
hcufe in a beavt ful and healthy situation, painted white,
with Venetian window flutters, thirty feet front and
thitty eight set deep, two rooms with a handsome ball or
entry on the frft floor, tbi ee rooms on the fecord ftoor and
two well-fnijhedgarrets. In the rear of the louf is an
excellent two-story building confiding of a dining-room fr
work people, spacious pantries and a forge kitchen, with
every eonve/.ience, and over these are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building conjifiing
of M chamber below and a library above—under the whole
are very fine cellars paved with brick. The house is en
tirely new and fnijhed with tajle. Every room is hung
with bells that lend both to the kitchen and the fervunts*
apartments : there it a pump in the yard; and a stone
and brick pavement round the whole house, which is enclos
ed -with a band fame railing, with three gates in front.
The farm conjifts of one hundred and sixty fever, acres,
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel •
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large law, fa
bles, carriage-house, cowhouses, Isfc. all new, and built
in the best manner : itith a young orchard of 100 grafted
trees. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland
of the best quality, containing 37 acres. Also a tra& of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, containing one hun
dred and fifty acres, tbree-fojiths meadow and the reft ex
cellent timber. Ibis will be fold in lots or together, as
•will best fait the purchasers.
The payments, one third caftj—one third in one year—
and the remaining third, one year following, with inter ell
on the two I aft payments, and approved fceurity.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,
Efy. or Dr. Palpit Lett, Cranberry ; if Ifaa: Snow den,
at Princeton ;or of Isaac S.'.owden, Jan. No. t l4l South
Second street, Philadelphia.
May %S §6mwflS
TO BE RENTED,
And may be entered upon at any time,
THAT forcibleind well improved water works
on Brandywine, three miles from tlietown
of Wilmington, in the (late of Delaware;
Consisting of
A large, convenient Slitting Mill,
In complete order, having several pair of rolls
and cutters of every lize.
A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
Having three pair burr stones, boulting works,
corn kiln and every other neceflary apparatus.
A Saw Mill,
i In the best order, and a pair of timber wheels.
A Smith's Shop and Tools.
To'acconnpodate these works there is a large
commodious stone dwelling house, kitchen and
wash house and a number of dwelling honfes
for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two large
stone fiables, two stone coal houfet, ai.d a coop
er's (hop, with meadow and pasture grounds.
If th: tenant chulcs he may have the oppor
tunity te purchase a:; te-rn of five hor
ses, coal carriages and bed, with a
flock of coal in the coal houses f'ifticiest to nil
• nufailure three hundred tons of iron.— Apply to
RUMFORD & ABIJAH DA WE?,
No. 7, South Wat'cr-ftrett.
A Lady going to England in the
c.ourfe of the ensuing ipring
WANTS a pcrfon between the age cf twenty and
forty, to attecd her immediately and oi\ the
voyage if agrerable tq the parties; Ihe mu t be of
an obliging riifpotuion and good temper, will be ex-
pcfted 10 aft in the capacity ef a general aitr ndaot.
Such a perlon well recommended will be liberally
ticated and generously paid—no other need apply. S
Enquire at the office of this paper. r
May 23. '3l
To be fold cheap,
To close an adventure,
7 Bales Baftai
2 ditto ColTas
Apply at the Store of
Mordecai Lewis.
May 16 toaw
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
Mat \!l, 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrears for any funis due on their
refpedtire shares, arc requeued to pay the
fame.
WILLIAM (SOVETT, Trcafurer.
IO m4\r ""
-Laws of the U. S.
SWIFT's EDITION. n
Jaft Publijhed,
Price 6 dollars, 3 vol. nmo.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and
P. Kice, M. Carey, R. Campbell and Co. C
Laws of the United States, v. n
R iffl the commencement of the Federal Govern- p
ment to the end oj the lajl Stffion of Con- r
graft, 'which terminated Murcb 3, 1797. a
'"j 'HIS edition, publilhed under an order of
1 Congress of the United States, has many j.
peculiar advantages. In the former one, each
volume had a separate index, whieli rendered
the reference in all cases, difticuli and trouble
some, and in many almost impoflible. The in
dexes were, moreover, very injudiciously com
piled. On the contrary, fn the present edition,
there is one copious, luminous index, com- S
piled by Zephaniah Swift, Esq. referring to J
all the volumes, and comprising in itfelf a com- b
plete digest of all the laws of the United States. 11
May 3. w&S7t f
Lajl night for the season. t
THE LYCEUM,
FOR FREE DEBATE. .
AT O'ELLF.RS' GREAT ROOM. t
ON SATURDAY EVENING, ,
May the 27 th. 1
WILL BE DEBATED, 1
Is the profejjion of Law advantageous to
society.
■After which an address will he delivered
from the chair.
Admiflion—one eighth of a dollar.
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
jfufl Imported,
In the Jhips William Penn and Star, from London y and
now of>»nin% by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, J
AT his new Hat andHoliery Store, No. 134,
Market street (
An elegant affortmest of silk, cotton and thread
Stockings 1
Siik, cotton and thread Gloves :
Pantaloons, See. &c.
Likewifc, a handsome affortmentof men's, wo- .
, men's, and children's falhicnaMe Hats, fuitablcfor
Lbs S^afon.
A c©nfiderable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats aflbrted in cases, intended for country ttares
May 23. taw <
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vauzegrift's
rkU y,
ON Nefiiaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premifesare a large two ftery Hone house occu
pied as a tavern, and a good one flory stone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threfbing
floor, and fomc out buildings —also a well of
good water, and an excellent iee House. On
this place is a moil elegant situation for a gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefliam
iny to its junction wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey Ihore. It has the privilege
of one| half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Subfdriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vay 24. 3tawtf.
A few hhds. N. £. Hum,
Of a SUPERIOR QUALITY,
HYSON -)
YOUNG HYSON AS, m ouarter chests,
\ And IMPERIAL J
, FOR SALE BY
A. Marple & Ifrael'W. Morris,
No. 60 Dock-street.
May a a riiw&f^t
Richard Bayley Co.
\ Late John Whitesides & Co.
Na. 136 Market-Jlrcet,
HAVE received per the ships William Penn and
Star from London, a large and falhionable as
' fortment of the follow ing articles: viz.
s Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newest
patterns
Furnitnre Dimities and ChiKtzes
Gingham*, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and emtroider'd
Co. tambour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do. tamboured, of a very superior qual ty
■ Floe Book, Jaconet and Dccca Handkuchiefs
Dimities and muflinets
e Damask table-linen, in f»tt« and in the piece
j Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Rullia
Loop'd Hollands aid U if.i Linens
e Loii 0 I.a-.vEs and Camt rics
Fat tins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves.
Crspts and Gauats
Straw, Chin, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, Dew
1 thapts
Falicy trimmings, &c.
0 With a variety of arri'!; in the I.ir.cn-Drapery
and KibcrdaUury line.
M,.y n . S'ct
[Volume XI.
Canal Lottery,
No. 11.
I
Scheme of a Lottery,
Authorized by an aft, entitled, ''an aft to
enable the President «cd Managers of the
Schuylkill and Ssfqurhannah navigation, to'
rait'e, by -way of Lottery, tke sum of Four
Hundred Tboufund Dollars, for theputpofe
of completing the works, iu thrir a£U of
incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars, 30,000
j of ten thousand dollars, io,coo
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to tlie polTefTors of the five
numbers firftoutof the wheel on the
lilt day's drawing, at -which time there
(hall not be left than 500 numbers un
drawn, ao.eoo
10 of two thou-fand dollars each, 20,000
,ao«if one thoufynd doliars e;.eh, 30, cc©
43 of five hundred dollars each, ai.jco
100 of two hundred dollars each, ao.ooo
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
lit of fifty dollars each, 1 t,oco
59500 of five dollars each, 147,500
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only b.! de
manded at the tune of sale
All prizes (hall be paid ten days afrer the
drawing is finifhed, upon the demand of th»
pofieffor of a fortunate ticket, fijbjeil to a de
duction of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within t»
•months after the drawing is finifhed, of vhich
public notice will be given, (kali be considered as
relinqui(hed forthi use of thi Canal and applied
accordingly.
At a Meeting of the President and Mana
gers of the Schuylkill and Sufquehanwa
Canal Navigation—and the President and
Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
Canal,
Hefolved, That Jofepl*Call, John Steir.metz,
Standifh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Cr&a,
John Miller, jua. and William Montgomery,
be a committee to arrange and diredl the mode
of disposing of the tickets 1 which committee
(hall deposit this money in bink, to be carried
to the credit of an iccpuat to be opened for
the Lottery.
We the Commiflioners appointed by the Go
vernor to superintend the drawing of the Lot
tery, inform the public, that the tickets are
now rolling up, and that the drawing will po
sitively commence on Mondaythe 29th «f May
next.
Frederick Kuhl,
yames AJb,
George Bud J.
Philad. April 17, 1797. 2avr
Tickets at fix dollars each to be had of the
managers, or at the canal •ffice, near the bank
of the United States.
Port-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every mornipg (Sundays excepted) at haif past 7
o'clock.
The Mail for Bqfton will be closed every day
(Sundays excepted) k noon ; and
The Mail for Freckrfca, Milford, Clowes, Dagfbo
rougb, Delaware, Hormowu, Accomack Court-House
arid Northampton Codrt-Houie, Virginia, will be
closed every Monday morning at half palt 7 o'clock.
May 23 *ist
JuJi Imported,
IN the (hip Woodrop Sims, Capt. Hodgfon,
from Canton, and for sale by the Sabfcrib
er, at Mrs. Kinfify's, corner of Second and
Pine-street,
Hyson ")
Hyson Skin (Teas all frt(h and of
Young Hyson and f excellent quality.
Gunpowder J
Also,
A few Nankeens.
C.HAIGHT.
April 17 dtf
To be Sold,
Tke time of a Negro Man,
WHO has about fix years and an half to
serve. He is honoft and sober, a toler
able waiter, and underftarids driving a carriage.
For terras apply at No. 113, Souih Third
Street.
May it. eodfit-
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and tor sale by the fubferfber.
Muscovado Sugar in fchds- tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hlids.
Afl3 Laguira hides.
also ON han6,
Irrtperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in jjipee.
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese.
Luteltrings. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window. Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb.
Peruvian B*k. Quicklilver, fcc.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May nd. d 141.
- 'Jonathan Harvey >
t No. 106 SOUTH FRONT-STRUgrr,
HjIS FOR sjle, ■[
A general aflortment of Dry Goods
—Amongst -which are—-
A few boxes Irish Linens.
May 11 • wfim
To be Sold,
A three Jfory brick House, "with fuhalle Lack
buildings ;
SITUATE in Viqe-ftreet, No. 88, completely
finifhed, and free of grchnd-rcnt: II has a
ueat back yard, in which is a cittern, and new
pump for rain water —commodious ccii'-r. are un
derneath the whole, in which is a dry well bricked
v up, that will hold icj. This property is well cat*
cuhted for a boarding house. For particulars ap
ply at thepremifes.
y Immediate portefiioa will be given, or so as to
suit a purchafcr.
May I}■ "awtf- %f)C
PHILADELPHIA,
Saturday evening, may tj.
By an arrival at Boston from Lisbon, we
leain, that admiral Jatv . failed for the Medi
terr.inean, with cor.liderable reinforcements,
i.; the beginning of April.
In the Hnufe of Rcprefentatives, yester
day. Mr. Dennis, fioili Maryland, (a new
member) in a fpjech of cy,'i(iJe r able length,
opened the debite, ngainft the ame-vdment
proposed by Mr. Nicholas to tl»e reported an
swer to the Prcfident's ipecch : he wa» fuc
tecded by Mr. Sewall, from MafTachufetts,
who fpokc neatly twn hours 011 the fame fide
the qufjlion. Mr- Findley followed in favor
of the auiendment : some additional ohferva
tions were made by Mr. Otis, and some re
marks upon them by Mr. Nicholas. Nj vote
was taken. Adjourned to this day.
A SUPPLEMENT
7 0 the Ordinance entitled an Or din-wee provid
ing for the appointment of a ColleSor of
Tolls at the Ferry on Sch'uylLili, and for
clher p'lrp'fes therein mentioned.
10!;. it ami enaflerl by the Citizens of Phi-
Uilelpnia in S-ieft aotl Common Couj.cils a!Tem
bh.d ; That from and aftet the parting of this Ordin
ance, the Collector of Tolls fhal] demand and receive
fir e»kli C jit (jadlLn; over Ihe bridge oi Schuylkill,
at the Weft end of High-ltrret, one Gxteenlh of a
rioliar and no more, and Hull from time to timecoo
foim liim'e'.f in col'cftii:g t!ie rate of tolls agreeable
to luch orders and rcfolutio sos the Scfc£lacd Cam.
!n"fi Council* as they may from time to time adopt
fcr the regulation of f«id tuidge and ferrvi
Iriacted into an Ordinance at Philadelphia,
I. s c. the twenty-frcond dav »f May, in the year
of our Lord •!><■ thoufaud seven hundred
and ninely-feven.
Samuel hopgdon,
Piefiderit of the Common Council.
FRANCIS GURNEY,
President of the Scire! Council.
. _ COMMUNICATIONS.
The rrpublicanifm of our exclusive patriots
has often been displayed in their denuncia
tions of the proceedings of our government—
Tiicy profefj to be friends to a representative
government —to the rights of eleftion—and
on particular occafion3 cry up the infallibility
of the majority, and represent it as a damna
ble political heiefy t» rcfilt their decifiuns.
Bu', not content with giving the lie to their
profefllons by general abuse of the proceed
ings of government for years together, when,
ever they are defeated in a particular objeft,
by either.of the btanchts of the legislature,
they ate so it,cautious as immediately to show
their cloven foot, and all their deference for
the majority of the democratical blanch is
converted into billingfgdte.
Thua, " a majority of the House of Re
prefcntati.es were (ligmatized as a rancorous
faShn merely because they" exercised their
own judgment in the choice of a clerk.—
Very few of the idfcaS fuggsrteJ by this de
tellable faftion were ever adopted by a ma
jarity of either branch of the government,
and they may fafely' be challenged to point
out a (ingle article that has teceired the legis
lative fan&ion, which they have not repro
bated. 1 hefe refleflions are founded on fa£ls t
and ought, to be held in conflant remem
brance by the people ; they iiTcfiftably de
inonflra<c the truth of an old couplet :
The public good men oft ptetend,
Whilst private intercfl is their end.
The President of the Uri'j'd f tites. is *Jailed by
the harpies of fa&ion oa tht 'fflbjea of appoint
ments: but here the friends of our ccuntry have
noth'Bg to frar, and its enemies Bothir.g to hope.
Appointments will be made with a supreme rogard
to the public gtoj.
Integrity and talents will be brought forward
with independent (irmnefs—for itwouldbcamisfor
tune isdredif thapublic interefis were to he facrific
de,becaufe those who pefief'.pre-eminent abilities to
prometc thole intercfts, are allied to the President
of the United States.
However great the independence and fortitude
of mind rcquilite on the occafipn—he, wh» has
supported his country's honor anj intcrcft in the
face of all Europe, will not be diverted from tho
steady fuppcrt cf thi fame by the tools of
that laAicn which he has fitccefsfnlly combated for
so many years.
The good sense of the people saved the Conlli
tution of the United States, and with it their li
berties, when rf-e treaty with Great-Britain was
under confederation.
A party in the House of Representatives at
tempted at that tinieto meltdown and reduce the
government into a finple branch—What fort of
f, eedo-n we firould then have enjoyed, may be
learned from the convention of Robespierre
At the present moment there appears to be a fi
miiar «;tign on foot—but it will not fuccced. A
jeeend t:mc the people have flcpped forward—and
bjr their eledions a majority is formed in the House
r t Representatives which will save the Constitu
tion Ihe ailumption and exercise of all potver
by one branch is known to be the doArine of those
who. from the beginning, hive opposed the Fe
deral Govtrumect.
The Executive Diredlory of France have ifTued
a proclatnatiun rejpeding the primary afTcmblias
for the elcfiions. The rabble of the kingdom are
fce-c exhorted to be wife and temperate in their
ehoic# of rulers. Such admonitions to such pupils
is like a precept to an oyster wench to avoid swear
ing and bawrlry Atueism, I)ißat7CHE*r,
f.A«rios, Risthssntss, and theSoLDi.nr, are
now the Five Kings of France. The nakeaoef» of
the Sansculotte comports with the name, and Vs
dame Tallien, with her filler profligates have infli
tuted a revolutionary modesty—wear their petticoats
as high as their knees—and have abolithcd (hifts as
defirudive of the froJUrHtkj of nature ! In the
Provinces, the»ancient French gentleman, and the
difapp«inted pea fan t, are both inquiring," Who
will lbew us any Good in the new order of tilings?"
Weary t f rec|uifitions, and of their bkod-flained
Rewbell, they l.nm the tuiieof li yalty! »nd"The
King ftiati hail have his own again", ts'belieV«d
and wished.
A Letter, purporting lo be t, anCated si om (he
Parts Moniteur, pubHlhed a« the production of Mr.
JerriasoM, and firnerf vrith his rame, contains
such an imprudent avowal of fadions, and even
treasonable defipns, that we cannot lufped that
the fceond officer in our government its author.
'the probaWility is. that it i« a French fabrication,
calculated to few jealouly, <*droufe the fierce ha
tred of parties. -
Farmers' Weehlj },".ufrum.
The dodr nr« advanced by
f;ec;h, will lit fo<nd, 03 to be the
p£«le&io<4 a? pdV.tic&l «r:hrt<taTjr : -hut the? will
not fiiit the priori covert ooi-ioas, *n<4 miftukea
prejudice, oF a (urticttlar daft, wluf arc refriv.."!
at all hazards to oppose wirttercr Is fnid or d »ne
by thofain poorer. There i« a ridicul >cs and bafc
idea harbored bvl&n? *jrfo:is in tail countiy who
have cither brought it from- Europe, or adoptea it
from such as arc coma from thirc, that a fyftcma
tic oppofieion to the nvufure* of government, is
meritorious, and ftarap> their char j fUr with the
mark of Patriotism. Th extreme ijnora n .ce #f
some of these peopln, andth? mjiignity of others,
have so blinded and benighted tkar incollciU as
to »if tbletlv m from feeiiij tiiat a conduct so pue
rile must render them objech of contempt instead
of patterns of im ration. Can it be iuppofed that
Americans, who have ilruggled for indcpendeiTCi',
and who, after the experience of a fctblc govern
ment, hava deliberately given themfelw* a better
and ailronger, fliould, t;:e moment it it eftablifli
ed, endeavor to subvert it? No—Those who are
chargeable with such views are not Americans,
either in principle or practice—They are Foreign
ers, the partisans of othet nations who seek to
ruin u*: to divide and weaken is the dire& way
to deOroy—-Icis a maxim as old as th? pafl histori
cal rccards—it is the ditflate ot wickedness and in
trigue combined with feme decree of apprehension
for the people against whom it is played off—The
Romans used it fuc:eftfully—By their continual ex
ertions to disunite the people from their govern
ment, both fell an easy prey, and the Roman Ea
gle soared triumphantly over every land to which
his flight was dire<sted—Our strength con fid* in
■ Union—Thit object fltould therefore be foduloufly
cultivated ; and whoever tries to fiiw diflention
anddifcord when it is f« obvious that Union alone
is the anchor of Hope,dcferves, and should receive
the execration of Americans. J'he President fays
—" While other States are desolated with foreign
wars, or convulfcd wkh intestine divisions, the
United States present the pleafmg profpeft of a
nation governed by mild and equal laws; generally
faiisfied wkh the pofTeflion of their righes ; neither
envying the advantages nor fearing the power ofi
other nations; solicitous only for the maintenance
of order and justice, and the preservation of li
berty." The introduction of the term generally in
this paragraph was judicious; for although very
few native Americans are diiTftUfied with the admi
niftrationof governmtnt, yet there are feme a
mong u« who fo—What they want in numbers,
is made up by clamor and impudence—and what
they want ot the means to fubfift,is probably sup
plied from the conquered countries in Europe—lt
ii next to impoflible that men born here, or who
from choice, adopt this country for their horn -
who have every thing to lose, and nothing to gain
« in times of trouble, Ihou'd labor, without the re
ceipt or the hope of rccompence, to render it mise
rable. Muck has been £»id and iiiftnuated against
the virtue of Wafliington, Hamilton, and other
uncolrupted patriots, by the partisans of foreign in
fuencs and domination; but, as they stand too firm
on the strong ground of integrity to be affedled by
the efforts of a declining fa&ion, their fame will
forever remain unsullied; while their calumniat
ors fiok into oblivion; or if by some miracle,
these are known in future times, it will only be to
receive the bleflings due to the Catalines of Ame
rica. Nexu-York Daily Gazette.
From the Farmer's Weekly Museum.
" Then -went Sampson t» Gaza, and saw
there an hnrkt."
Strong as he was, fueh a journey debili
tated him. It was not the length of the
way from Timnah ; it was not the rugged
roa'l, nor the irkfomnefs ot a hard trotting
mule ; it was not a stroke of the fun, nor
a bleak air that (hook the nerves, and proflra
ted the life of Sampson ; far not one of these
circumflances is ever glanced at by the histo
rian ; no* he saw, in one of the flews of
tiaza, a venal beauty and was undone. His
wit evapoiated, his wisdom turned babbler,
he loft his vigilance, his eyes, and his life.
One licentious indulgence excites to a
nother. The blandiihments of this courte
z.m to the cells of the whole fillerhood.
He lays his h<ad in the lap of voluptuouf
nef6, and gives full scope to criminal deOre.
For it came to pass afterwards, that he loved
a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name
was Delilah.
Let us pondera little the hiftoryof these
unlucky amours. A (ketch of the wars and
viciflltudes of passion is of more interelt than
the narrative of a battle or siege, or the ar
nals of an empire.
To display a striking, ss well as ufeful
contrail, it may be correft to view Samp
son, before he entered the gates of Gaza,
and after his acquaintance with two bad wo
men.
His fir ft was by no means a love adventure.
It was in the style ofchivalry without a dam
sel. Lurking in the vines of rude territory,
a lion roared against our juvenile hero, who,
as it is in a lively manner exprefled, rent his
ferocious adveifary, as he would have rent &
kid. A bold encounter, but not half so
dangerous as the smiles of the lady in the
valley of Sorek. Mere brute farce, however,
was not the sole attribute of Sampson. For
seven days he tortures the ingenuity of thirty
friends to resolve an enigma. He .had the
palm df wit and the chaplets of vitlory ; by
his art he destroys the property, and by his
arm the life of his enemies. Not only the
family of his father, Manoah, but the whole
circumjacent region must have rung with the
praises of this ytjuth of promise ; and even
indifferent men, and abllratt reasons would
alertly from such imptfing premises draw the
happicft conclusion.
But behold how, in one hour, so great
riches come to nought. T» is far, what a
tissue of brilliant atchievments do we admire !
The next scene is madly mortifying. In
the very summer of the ensuing page ef his
story what are the humiliating particulars of
hf« downfall ? Sampson, the valiant, the witty,
and the wife, is the dupe of f«male jugglers ;
is enticed ; is overcome. In the zrms of a
" twining Lais" of the Philistines, his fu
pernalural llrength melts away. He awakes
out of his lethargy of pleasure, and hopes to
go cut, as at other times, rejoicing ia his
might. But the energy of the foul is no
more. He, whom once nothing could re
fliain, is bound. He gauds in the prison
houlv, and, dwindled into* buffoon, is in
•wjtfd <wilh his m*tley to a/nufe the rabble.
In the life of this extraordinary pei fonage
it is.amatterof regretful Speculation that the
field of honor (hould be changed for the vally
of Sorek. Hence an abundant crop of
evil. It was not the Phili!lines, it was im
pure prffion that extinguilhed the difcern
mervt of Sampson. He never f»w any ob
jetJ clearly, after he went to Gaza, and saw
an harlot. It is true, he f.-w Delilah, but,
probably, through the obfeurity of noctur
nal hours. Of her arts, of her perils, he
furcly had but an imperfeft vision. Hcad-
j/ink-'d by pleafnre, he could hot fee the
seven locks oi hit head, featured on the toilet
of a worn in, The fc'fl'ataof a gypfey-proved
(harper than the fwoid.of enemies; and the
flowing hair of the hero, once covered, with
laurel, is now tortured into meretricious
ringlets, or periwigs fo.r.e pimp in Delilah's
anticliamber.
Gei.ius, said the amiable clergyman, with
whom I studied divinity, is invariably con
ne&ed with Strong paflions. When men,
exquisitely organized, indulge pleal'ure, it is
with that species of fervour, noted in.the ori«
ental page—it is with all their Inarm. and
with all their foul, and with all their Strength,
and with all their mind. The icfenlible
lonngcr, the felf cngrofTcd coxcomb, may
deep upon the knees of IXhlah, and v.vke a
gain to puny life. But of that opiate of joy,
of that golden cup of abomination, which
the harlot presents, if you iip, man, of feel
ing, you will " drain the chalice to the lpw
ell and fouled dregs." Keep the bigh and
■fafe ground ; —beware ol Hiding down the
dope of pleafure-. It conduits you to some
vale of Sorek, beneath whose roses are the
Serpent and the dagger. Go up to Parnassus
and fee the muse—An excursion to Gaza to
fee a mortal beauty, is not half so exhilarat
ing. , The Eay Preacher.
From tie COLUMBIAN CS.NTINEL.
FRENCH INFLUENCE—No. V.,
MR. RUSSFI.L,
THEttE has been a period, when Gallic in
fluence and Gallic principles were at the sum
mit of their glory in this country; a period,
when the voice of the genius of America was
fcarce'y heard, and when the suggestions of true
patriotilna, and national dignity were either not
Jiltened to, or del'pifed.. At that awful cri&s,
the scales of empire were suspended, and to the
eye of philosophic prophacyt it was not even
problematical, it was highly probable, that A
merica would be reduced into thefcalesof France,
and become the humble fnpplicant, the willing
(lave of the despots who rule that nation with an
iron red. Thai period so interesting to the for
tunes of America, and which posterity will look
back to with horror, was during the mad ca
reer of the seditious, inflammatory Genet. In
vain would Genet have continued to dispense
with a liberal and judicious hand, the louis d'ors
and the crowns of France, (unless his.refourees
had been as exhauftlefs as the mines of Peru)
in vain would he kave secured by carefTes and
flatter), the vain and the ambitious of our na
tion ; in vain would he have dispersed his in
flamatory and seditious writings through the
medium ef venal and prostituted prefles, the
great body of the yeomany like a firm phalanx,
woul A have fiood in battle array, ready to meet,
and determined to check the progress of any
daring invaders of our internal or externa! re
pose.—Genet, eagle. eyed to discover the bar
riers which opposed his success, and resolved to
accomplith his objefl, even if the road to it led
to civil war, and infurreiflion, introduced into
the peaceful city of Philadelphia, hitberto fam
ed f®r its order, that bane.ofall regular govern
ment, a jacobin club.
In what manner the firft promoters of this
pious, cmjlitutional and patriotic fecietv, were
induced to encourage, to fofter, and to support
it ; whether by gold, or purchase of flour, will
probably remain a secret. We cannot extend
to them, the candor which we would exsrcile
towards their less informed followers, that they
were not aware of the wrongs and injuries they
were committing upon their country.
Though Mr. Swanwick, Mr. Clenagain,
Baclie, and a long lift of miserable tools nUy
plead that they were duped, yet this excuse will
not prefsrve the memory at the fcientific Rit
tenhoufe, the amiable Hutchinfon, and the
learned Sergeant, from merited contempt.
As to Mr. secretary Dallas, I presume he
wilhes for no apology ; he glories in the honor
of having beenforemoft in the cause of ittfur
reiSion, and ardently wilhes for another oppor
tunity of exercising his talents. The establish
ment of the parent club at Philadelphia paved
the way for the creation of them in other popu
lous towns in the United States. Charleston,
Baltimore, Pittsburgh, New-York, Bennington,
Boflon, Portfraouth and Portland, soon follow
ed the patriotic example.
Four or five leading charaflers in each place,
men of characters and principles well adapted
for the cause of sedition, were all of whom Mr.
Genet had bccafion to secure, and barren indeed
mud be that foil which will not yield a few Ar
nolds, a few Dallases, and a few Livingftons.
The society once established, no great pains are
neceflary to create members or to excite them
to violent measures. Novelty, fondnefs for
change, vanity, discontent, ambitien all operate
as po verful recruitiug-oflicers, to fill up the
ranks of affiliating clubs. "Today, lam noth
ing, I am only one of the people; to-morrow I
(hall be fometbing, I (hall be a member of a club,
a club too to govern, watch, and controul my
fer-vmnts, the public agents," is very natural, ve
ry powerful, and we have seen, in this country,
irresistible language.
The .ivowed objefls of these aflociations were
to promote the circulation of ufefulinformation,
to guard the cause of liberty which was endan
gered by the European combination, and to
watch the condufl of our own administration,
in which they pretended to have observed cer
tain departures, from the spirit of theconflitu
tioo, and around which they esteemed it the dur
tyof all " good citizens to rally." The real
objefls of these clubs, were, to aceuftom our
citizens to the newfangled doctrines of the
French jaccbins ; to familiarize them to the
jargon of unmeaning words uttered with holy
zeal, and the disorganizing principles of the
republicans of France ; to call up all the old
resentments agiinft Great Biitain; and (timu
late us t* take an aflive part in the war with
Franc#.
They accorlingly publilhedtheirconftitutions
and regulation!, written in a cc el, crafty and
artful (tyle, calculated to entrap the unwary and
honest citizen. But soon ifterthey were organ
ized, they threw off the maflc and came forth
as the bold champions of French principles, and
of open infurreilion. Tbey publilhed their
votes and anathemas, as dogmatical and as ridi
culous a; papal bulls, against every important
meafureof the federal government. They re
probated in express terms, a«sls of congrcfs
which had been Solemnly past, and had been in
operation for yejrs. The funding, system, the
revenue laws, the excise ails, the President's
proclamation for neutrality, the appointment of
Mr. jay by the President and folate, all met
with severe and unwarrantable ceniure. The
people were excited to interellthemfelves against
these measures, and to execrate the men who
had promoted them.—ln short from one de
gree of violence, they proceeded to another, un
til they received, what to every ingenious mind
would be the fevered piiniQimeat, the open and
avowed reprimand of the candid, prudent, en
lightened, good and immortal Washington.
In any other country, the leaders would have re
ceived the punishment of traitors. The event
will be hereafter detailed. LEONID/IS.
Ff.rEP.bßirSG, M*y 19.
At a milting of nuj'j" Harwell's oattaJion
of militia, at Delany's ordinary, and of raajor
Taylor's battalion at Gregory's miH, in the
county of MeckVahurjr, on Sarurday the 6th of
May, 1797, the fallowing declaration was pro
pofcd, uel.berated on, and agreed unanimously
to.
7*<j Th <» m A s Claibop.n *,_EJq. Rcptefentaiive
fjr the Dijlritlof Bru-fivkk, <3c.
SIR,
VVE, the officers and soldiers and other free
holders residing within the t'mits of major Har
vlfll'i and major Tayl<* 's battalion?, deeply im
prefied with ihe importance of the exiliir.g cri
sis—conceiving that it would be agreeable ti>
you, their, reprefentati:e, to be armed with
their opinions on the interesting ocrafion, and
not from any Want of confidence in yaur fideli
ty to us, or attachment Vo our cointnon coun
try ; takethe liberty to declare, that the coo-'
venirv; of Congrcfs at .this unefual time, has
a tendency to increase in our minds that lolici
tude which the ynprovoked depredations com
mitted by the republic of France on our e6m
merce, and the dilpofitioti manifested by them
to complain of the American government had
before excited. We ronfider it as portending
an inter: option to that tranquility which the jus
tice and wisdom of the American councils seem
ed calculated to perpetuate, and indicative of
war with that nation, which it hath been among
our chief glories to consider o»r ally j not up
on the fordid principles which ton commonly u
nite nations, but upon those alike honorable and
beneficial to both republics, having for their ob
jedl no less than the happiness of the human
race. A continuation of these sentiments, it is
dill our anxious with to maintain and prcfcrvc,
and when we refledl upon t/ie a-vovjed princi
ples of the French naiioh, we cannot entirely
abandon the pleasing thought of a return of that
confidence and harmony which may have been
interrupted by the machinations of some, who
under the specious garb of excelfive zeal, area
like inimical to both.
To attain this raoft definable end, our love of
peace, of country, and of mankind, didlatcs a
wish that every just expedient (hould be resort
ed to, for removing every prejudice, real or im
aginary, which may have obtained —This, we
conceive,»woulb be the best effe&ed by an en
voy extraordinary, who could not upon this oc
casion use language more expreflive of our wilh
es to cultivate friendfliip with that republic,
than the fa<S\ will juftify.
Here, Sir, let us pause before we come to the
dread alternative —the thought of which we
would wilh to obliterate, if felf government
and property were not deposits too precious and
too sacred to be rudely approached l>y any na
tion, even the raoft favored.
Under these impressions you will readily per
ceive, that if France can poffiblyhave abandon
ed her plighted faith,and so otten avowed affec
tions 4 and infiduouflj'calculates upon our gene
rous partiality, as the means of tolerating any
intermeddling with our privileges, property, or
engagements with other nations, we cannot hc
fitate to declare, that we are decidedly and un
alterably determined to support, to the utmost
of our ability, all the constitutional measures of
the American government, to redress its wrongs,
and defend its rights, sgainft the encroachments
of every nation on earth ; as it is the one of
our choice, and is endeared to us by the blcfT
ings it hit hitherto afforded.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
Tuesday, May 23.
In a committee of the whole, Mr. Dent in the
chair, on the answer reported to the Prcfi
dent's Speech, Mr. Nicholas's proposition
being under confederation :
Mr. Rotledge said, when the report of
the committee (hould be befujre them, he
(hould have some remarks to make upon it;
but at present he (hould effer only a few
observations upon the proposed amendment.
Hefaidhehadfeveralftrong objettions to the
amendment; but one so Strong that he seed
not urge any other : it was, that in agreeing
to it they (hould di&ate to the Executive,
which he believed would be infringing upon
the Executive Power. As it was his pe
culiai duty to give initru&ions to Miniftert,
it would be improper in them to fay what
(hould be the inftru&ions given to a minister ;
but if it were r.ot so, he (hould not vote for
those of the gentleman from Virginia.
In the inftruftions of a minister, it wasufual
to comprize a variety of proportions. Cer
tain Things were tirlt to be proposed; if,
these could not be obtained, he was itiftrua
ted to come forward with foniething else,
and if this could not be got, he went on to
his ultimatum. But, if the proposition of
:he gentleman from Virginia were obtained,
his infttuftions would be publicly known. In
vain would it be for lura to offer tliia or that,
they will fay the House of Representatives
has directed you what to do, and we will
not agree to any thing else. This would
be contrary to all diplomatic proceedings ;
for that reason, he (hould be opposed to the
house faying what (hould be his inllruflions.
Indeed if it were usual, lie (hould be against
it in this ioflance, as he believed it would en
courage an extravagant demand. W hat, said
he, have they said to our minister (or rather
to the person who was formerly our minister,
but who then had no power ?) They told
him to go away, (hey had nothing to fay to
him, they would receive no more minilterg
from the United States until their grievan
ces were redressed. This country is chargad
with countenancing an inequality of treaties.
The French have said, redress our grievances
in a certain way. ' But, laid Mr. Rutledgr,
ifw"e do this, we (hall put ourselves under
the dominion of a foreign'po»er, and (hall
have toaika foreign country, what we (hall
do. This was a Situation into which we must
not fall without a struggle.
Though he were npon the committee, he
bad contiibuted very little to the composition
of the atifwer reported. He thought it, how
ever, a proper address j but he was willing
that it might undergo any modification which
(hould not alter the fubftancc of it.
Mr. Sitgrsaves said, though he had wiSh
ed to have taken a little more time before he
had troubled the csmmittee with his observa
tions ; yet as there now appeared an interval,
he (hould take the opportunity ofoccupjing
it, for a few minutes.
He (hould not answer the observations of
the gentleman from Georgia, with reffieft
to the Style of the answer reported ; but he
believed that those gentlemen who would
look at it without a perverted vision, would
not discover the faults in it which that gentle
man had dif*cvfred~-Hr thought it rather
| remaricafclc for the fiu p»lc2: j- i f Iti. fiylr, than
' for <» redundancy of epithet. IK* ilifco7er.
more of the latter in the than io
the original rrpoit. There aie, indeed,
(operatives in both ; but th<-r arc attached
to oppolitt fcnttmentt, and iu the original
report they are ufrd where they ought to be.
He would not, however, detain the commit
tee with matter so immaterial, but would pro
ceed to what appealed to him of some cenfe
quenee
A llranger who had come into the house
durin* this debate, and heard what had fallen
from the mover of the propflfed amendment,"
and from mrir.beri who had followed him,
would ha>e supposed that, ir.ftcad of in adt'
'ofordinary, tnteri ourfe being under difcufiior,
they hart bee# debating the quettion of a
Dwlaration of War egainft France.
He would declare, for hiiafelf at leatl, on
tht fubjefl of war, that he agreed in certain'
of the fcntinems of gentlemen dn rhe other
fide of the house. A ftaie of war wa» cer
tainly a curse to any nation—to Atflcrica it*
would be peculiarly a curse. Jt ought to be
avoided by all pof&blc means, it wa» not on
ly impolitic,but madness, to lufii wantonly iu.
to a war. Bin he thought there were two
fides of thefubjeft. He thought that peace w?»
not the greatest of all pofiible blefTings ; he
thought that peace might be puichafedtoodear,
and war avoided at too great an expencc. He
thought that peace might coll what is of
greater value than money—our Independence.
This was no new sentiment in this country.
It was thought that peace mijht be bought
too dearly in the revolutionary war ; they
then thought it better to be at war than to
submit to tke alternative evils. France also
shews that (he prefers a state of war
carried on at an unexampledexpence of blood
and treasure—to a state of peace with despo
tism. He tho't therefore that we should adopt
language of a firm and manly tone. To pre
serve peace by all honourable means, but not
by dilhonouraUe means. As he observed
last feflion, on a similar occasion, we (hould
cultivate peace with zeal and fwcerity ; but
whenever our intention for doing so w as pub
licly expressed, it ought to be accompanied
with an opposite afl'ertiou, of a determina
tion, if our endeavours to maintain peace fail,
that then every resource of the r.ati«n (hall
be calledjinto exigence in fuppott of all that
is dear to us. Such a declaration, at this
time, was extremely proper. At present, he
said, all the obl'ervations which had been made
relative to war, were very premature. They
might be brought into consideration, when
any measure (hould be difcufled which might
lead to a war with France, Then would be
the time to count the cost and calculate the
benefit. At present, he conceived, our only ,
oljeft was, to enquire what were the feelings
which the conduct of Fiance had created iihf
our minds, and whether we we were ptepa-i
red to express those feelingf.
-Shall we, said he, from a fear of irritating
the French Republic, in a communication
with our owe executive, suppress our feelings,
or what is worse, suppress the truth ? For
h*s own part, he saw nothing in the present
business, but an exprcflioh of feelings natu
rally excited by the occasion ; nothing but a
declaration of fails. This being the cafr,
the quellion was, whether, from fear of tr
ritatirig the Fiench Government, they (hould
suppress these feelings and thef« fail*. }
It would be well to .consider what would
be the consequence of this coudefceiiiion.
He did not think the\ were warranted inbe
lieving that they (hould put France in a bet
ter humour with us by this means. He w«a
sure that gentlemen who were in the last
Congress would recollcft that the answer to
the address was reported in very mild terms,
from a spirit of accomodation in the commit
tee who formed it, and that it was afterwards
pruned in the house with care, yet there hzd
been no amelioration of the drfpofition of the
French towards this country. Instead of in
ducing, them to behave better to us, had it
not been with a knowledge of this that tljey
have offered us frefh insult. and indignity /
Indeed, Mr. Pinckney idea that
this moderation of ours may have been one
of the operating causes of fending our mi
nister from their country.
Besides, gentlemen have not pointed out
the particular expressions which tfiey cosfidcr
as irritating in the report. For his own part
he thjught the amendment might be conliJ.
ered as more irritating than the draft of the
committee. What was the language of the
amendment ? [He read it.] He gave it
as his opinion, that there was more of wais
and bullying in it than in the original report.
It was true the threat it contained was ac
companied by an if Now all the difference
betwixt the draft and the amendment was,
that in the former, instead of using the if,
th»y had at once expelled indignation at the
insults offered to this country by the Frencli
republic, and given aflurances to the Execu
tive that they would repel indignity with in
dignation. *
But if this fubjeft was to be oonfidered, he
would turn to a part of the gentleman's pro-
I position, not indeed immediately befoie them,
j but which he had declared it his intention to
j bring forward, where he fays, " we will repel
all unjust demands upon the United States
; by foreign countries; that we will ever con
sider the humiliation of the government at
the greatest personal difgracc," He wsi
willing to a& upon the gentleman's oivn'prii»
ciples. If we think th:re have been any u'n
jull demands upon the United States by fo
reign nations, it is then our duty to repel
them. The que,(lion was therefore narrpwe !,
and they had only to Uy, whether the de
mands made by the French government were
just or unjust.
The gentleman from Virginia thought aU
so pl-opfr to tell the committee, that majori<
tits had pushed the House too far, and had
expefled minorities to facrifice their opinions..
The gentleman was very tenacious of his own
opinion, and he trusted he would fuffer others
to be equally so of theirs. If that gentleman,
said Mr. S. thinks the demands of France are
not unjyit, I think they are. They had
been declared to be unjust' iu the mod folemtt
manner, by former Congtrfles, and on fotnif ioccafior.s tsith psif.-ft.unanimity i-ffcijliirrnt
and fulTiage ; and, if t)ie corjyyit'ee think
they jre, so, it was the gentleman's own po
rtion that thry should fay fa.; and if .they
were uijufl, tbev Ihould be repelled, and the
United States (hould look .forward t;> that
Date of things, when it shall he ueceflary to
repel thrm.
lie did not think it neccflarytoreprit his wilhej
fur peace. He thought it pofTiblo for this Go
vrriiner.t to purfiie a line of CondufJ which,
whilst it secured our neutral rights, would not
be a departure from our neutral obligations.
Hewifbedto take-a lit'le notiei'of what had
sal en from ibe gentleman from Virginia, on the
I'uLje.'t at ljcnficc of epinion. He had already
oblerved tnat he hoped that gentlemjp would
allow the fame liberty of fentimerit to dthers
which he claimed for himftlf. He would not
ftophere. After great ptiblic measures have
been the objeft of deliberate difciiffion in other
branches of the' government, and have hem car
ried by a raajority, he thought it the duty of a
minority to acquicfee in the determination. —
It is the chief duty of the members of a re
publican government —Where through the re
presentative channel the epiniens of all the ci
tizens are communicated, it cannot be expe<9ed
but that on great otcafioiu there will be a differ- 1
enceof ientiment; and thi«unavoidable diffcr
erce creates the obligation of perfect acqaief-
C.cnce in the major opinion ; for otherwise there
would be a perpetual conflifl between the mem
bers of the fame government.
It was from this opinion that he wis concern
ed to litar the past eonduift of any branch of the
government censured. Whatever legitimate afls
of government were parted, they should be pro
tefUd by the mil' ority as well as the majority—
They Ihould be held as sacred and never blown
upon by us. They should hold but one
in their support. Whatever difference of opini
niJH might exist amongst theinfelves, this dif
ference ought not to appear in their afls to fo
reign nations. —We ihould speak. said he, in
these cafe*, but as one people. Therefore, if
the answer to the President's addrels, be an in
flrumentof which the French Kepubliemay take
notice, it Ihould not appear to them that we have
been at any time, or are now, divided in the
fctttiments which it contains : theafls of the go
vernment are the a&s of the country, and net
a whisper Ihould efeapefrom us in opposition to
them, when they have been concluded and car
ried into effril.
He wiflied the gentleman from Virginia had
omitted his observations with refpeflto faSions
which may exist in this country, as there was
no necellary connexion betwixt that fubjefl and
the onrunder confederation. It was one which
ought to be kept out afview within those walls.
It was to be regretted that the press .was conta
minated with this kind of rubbifo; but when
the gentleman had exprefled his contempt for
charges of thw fort, he lbould have extended it
to both fides of the house: For if French faHion
was tried out on one fide Briti/h faction on the
other, had for these last four years been rung
from New Hampshire to Georgia. He should
have spared the committee these remarks, if the
gcptlcman had not, perhaps unwillingly, in some
degree added to the odium which was cast
upon one fide of the house, by fayisg that when
he firft came into the government he found a
general disposition againll the French eaufe ,
and even against Republican government (Mr.
Nicholas denied having used this laftexprefiion )
Mr. S. said he so understood him. However,
when he fpokt of the exinence of parties, he
■wilted he had looked on both fides of the quef
tisn.
But, said he, let us on this occaflon confine
ourfelvea to the real queilion before us. We
have been informed, said he, by the President,
in his speech to both houses, of the conduct of
the French towards this government, and have
fiuce received the documents upon which this
report was founded. He had not heard any
gentlemen juftify the condudl of the French.
He had heard, indeed, some attempts to palli
ate or apologize for it, but none to vindicate it.
His ideas of these things were, that the French
had not only injnred us, but added insult to in
jury ; and whilfl he retained this belief he could
not help feeling indignation and resentment.
Ou.- atflions, better than our words Ihew our
desires for peace. It was a desire in which we
were too much interested, t<> render its sincerity
at all questionable ; yet it was proper that this
desire should be accompanied with expressions of
our feelings on the oceafion —What objections
could there be to this ? If we were funk so low,
if our fears of the French republic aie so great,
that we dare not express what we feel, our si
tuation was really deplorable- He hoped this
was not, nor ever would be the cafe. He ho
ped we should cultivate peace with sincerity.
but with firmnefs. For if the French republic
is so terrible to us, that we ttiuft crouch and fink
before her ; if we hold our rights at her nod,let
gentlemen fay so. And if we are to give our
fclves up to her, let it be an aft of the govvern
nurit, founded on our sense of weakness ; do
not let u» conceal, under the appearance of spi
rit, aflual fubmiflion. Nations, it was true,
might be brought into such a situation as to be
obliged to surrender some of their rights to other
nations ; but, when this is done, it should be
done with some degree «f character. Let it not
be done as a confrfTimi of guilt. Let us said he,
surrender any thing sooner than the fair fame of
our country. He was not a military man, not
did he know how he should aft upon such an
ertafion ; but he knew what we ought to do.
We ought, rather to die in tit lajl ditch. Why
insinuate that rhe government had been wrong ?
Was it not enough to submit to iajury ; foall we
not only receive the Uripts, but kiss the rod that
them ?
But, said he, arc we in this situation ? Must
we surrender any <*f our rights?—He knew if
we fubinitted to injury and insult, this would be
the unavoidable contequence. He disdained a
ny reliance on the generous magnanimity of the
Jrench Republic. He thought htr condufl to
wards this countryjustified 110 such reliance.
He was of oginion we ought to take a firm
And decided attitude on this oicalion, and at a
my rate, before we mike a surrender of our rights
<we ought to make a ftruggleto retain them.
Mr. S. said he had made these observations
snore witn a desire to prevent any falfe reprcfen
tions of the views of the house from going a
broad, thau from a desire to throw much ad
ditional light on the fubje£». For his own part,
he fa * nothing in the reportedanfwer that could
either irritate, or offend against decorum. We
aiTertthat we have not injured the French Re
public, but if foe will injure us, we will defend
ourfclves. Thinking thus he should be in fa
vor of the original report, and agaiaft the a
mendment.
Mr. Otii observed, that he was so little
accudomed to tie mode of coudu&ing a de
hate in that honorable house, that he hardly
knew in what manner to apply his remarks
to the fubjert before the committee. A fpe
cific motion had keen laid on the table by
the jcntleman from Virginia, which reduced
the true queflion before them to a narrow
compaft; but the mover in difcufTiaghitown
propofuion, hart *&!.•• ised up<*i fuhjefts clear
to his mind, and familiar to Wis reccllrclion.
In this circuit t.c Lad been ably followed by
the gentleman Carolina, »*d o
theis; so thatthe whole fuUjeCt of the id» refs
of the Prefident,,jnd the reply of the com
mittee, was brought into view, with many
tonfiderations that did not belong it.. It was
his design to have remained lilcnt un'il the
fubjeft had been cxhauded by other gentle
men, and if any remark of an important na
ture had been omitted, which was not likely
to be the cafe, he would have suggested such
ideas as might have presented themselves to
his mind ; but a motion having been made
for the committee to rife, he would then of
fer a few observations, not so much for the
fake of illuflrating the qieftion, which bad
been done so much more fuccefsfully, but in
order to declaie his sentiments upon this 1m
portent eccafion. He so faragreed wiih the
gentleman from Georgia, that he believed,
upon ordinary Occasions, an answer to the
President's address should be calculated to
preserve an harmonious intcrcourfe between
the different departments of government,
rather than to pledge either branch of the
legislature collaterally, upon fubje£ls that
would come regularly- under their con.'idera
tion. But the present was not an ordinary
oceafion, and the situation of the country re
quired that the answer (hould not be a spirit
less exprefiion of civility, but a new edition of
the declaration of independence. He exprefled
his regret that upon this question gentlemen
should hava wandered into a review of mea
furcs and fubje&s, so frequently examined,
so deliberately fettled, and which had a ten.
dency to re-kindle party animosity. If they
would never acqtiß-fce in the deliberate afis
of the government, because perfonal
sentiments had been averse t» them in the
season of their difeuflion, there could be no
end to controversy—for his part he conceived
that all party diftinftions ought now to cease;
and that the House was now called on by a
warning voice, to destroy the idea of geogra
phical division of sentiment and interest exist
ing among the paople. His conftitucnts, and
himfelf, were disposed to regard the inhabi
tants of the southern fl&tss as brothers, whose
featufes were cast in the fame'mould, and who
had waded through the fame troubled waters
to the shore of liberty and independence—
He hoped that gentlemen would, in their
tilrn, think the other part of the union enti
tled to some consideration.
The address of the President difelofed, for
the contemplation of the committee, 1 a narra
tive of fads, and of the exilting caufesofcon
verfy between the French republic and our.
selves ; the overtures for reconciliatios, which
were to be repeated by attempts to negociate,
and the measures of defence that might be
proper, in cafe negociation should fail. The
injuries sustained by us were of a high and
atioeious nature, confiding in the capture of
our vessels, depredations upon the property
and persons of our citizens, the indignity gf
feied to our minister; but what was more
aggravating than the reft, was, the prafefled
determination not to receive our minifler un
til the complaints of the French should be
redrefied, without explanation and without
exception—until we should violate treaties,
repeal laws, and da what the constitution
would not authorise, vaeate solemn judgments
of our courts of law. These injuries should
not be concealed ; he did not wish, however,
to indulge the unnecessary expreflions of in
dignation, but to state in plain and unequivo
cal terms the remonflrances of injured friend.
ship. If any man doubted cf the pernicious
effefls of the measures of the French nation,
and of the adual ft ate of our commerce, let
him enquire of the ruined and unfortunate
merchant, harralTed with profeeutions on ac
count of the revenue, which he so long and
patiently toiled to fupport^—lf any doubted
of its efFe£ls upon agriculture, let him enquire
of the farmer, whose prdouce is falling and
will be exposed to perish in his barns—Where,
said he, are your sailors? Listen to the pas
sing gale of the ocean and you will hear their
groans ifluing from French prison ships.
Such were the injuries, and such the requisi
tions of the French nation ; and he defied the
ingenuity of any gentleman to draw a com
parison between the Dire&ory and the Briiifh
Parliament, in favor of the former ; and in
filled that the demands of Charles de la
Croix were upon a parallel with those of lord
North. He enlarged upon the analogy of the
circumstances attending the pretentions of the
British government to bind us, when we were
coloniea, and of the French to us,
now we are free and independent Hates ; he
thought it expedient to cultivate the fame
spirit of union, and to use the fame firm and
decided language. He regretted that ques
tions should be agitated upon this oceafion,
which had been formerly the cause of party
spirit and diflenfions ; and did not believe
that the immortal men who framed the noted
instrument which difflolved the charm of al
legiance and (hivered the fetters of tyranny,
condescended to differ about verbal criticisms
and nice expreflions, thro' fear of giving of
fence ; nor that it was incumbent upon the
members of the committee to repress the as
sertions of their rights, or smother a jutt and
dignified expreflion of their fiifceptibility of
insult, because the French had been once our
friends, or because the commencement of their
revolution was a ftru;'gle for liberty. There
was a time when he was animated with en
thusiasm in favor of the French revolution,
and he cherished it. while civil liberty appear
ed to be the obje&—but he now connfiered
that revolution as completely atchieved, antl
that the war was continued, not for liberty,
but for conquelt and aggrandisement, to
which he did not believe it was the interefl of
this country to contribute. The only precise
obje&ion which he recolle&ed to a full decla
ration of our sense of injury, was the differ
ence of the system, which, it was fuggefled,
had been adopted by government, towards
■ lie Biitifh, under firailar circumstances of
unjust aggrtflion. But if it were ttue that
this difference existed, it did not become those
who thought the measures of government
wrong upon that occafiin, to advocate * re
petition of error. In his opinion however a
dilfeience of measures would be juflifiable by
a reQedion upon the causes which induced
the Briiiili dtprejaiiuns, anJ th'-fe to win <i
the measures of the frem*'i miv he affi;ned j
and yet there was not in fa<3 i hr variance be
twee.i the plans reoomtfTonJeJ by the sup
porters of the late Erse utive, and adopted
towards the Britiflv, and rh f; whieh have
been purfueC, and are now defended, with
refpeft to the French, «ht;h gentlemen were
ready to imagine. He was contented to re 1%
the firft of these positions upon the fa£la, that
the BritiHi were Simulated to annoy uur com
merce, through an appreh'nf.vn that we litre
united again/3 tkrm, and the French, by a belief
that tufwere divided in their favor. To un
deceive thrm in these opposite prejudices
might have required or at lealt jtftified difli
milar modes of speaking and ailing. Yet
the language adopted, and the measures ad- j
vocated, were nearly alike—To fay nothing j
of the late inftruflions to Mr. Pinckney, the j
famous memorial of Mr Jay to lord Gren
vilie, which has been the fubjeA of so much
calumny, was not couched in more concilia
tory ot ttnafTuming terms, than the answer
of the House of Representatives to the Presi
dent's speech atthe la ft feffion—(tie rsad here
the answer) —and yet it is intimated by our
minister Mr. Pinckney (a man who, he hoped,
was not meant to be-included by the gentle
man from Maflachufetts in the description of
Bri'iOi influence ; a man of high and untar
nished reputation and known attachment to
his country) that this very answer was pro
bably among the causes of theconduft of ihe
Directory—He then added some further ob
servations, to prove, that when the country
was menaced with Briiifh hoftiliiies, measures
of defence had been proposed by the friends
to the administration, comptifing the equip,
ment of a navy, fortifying ihe ports and or
ganizing the militia.
Having thus, as he contended, demon'
ftrated the / right and propriety of Rating
our complaints, his adverted to the next im
portant fubjeft contained in th- speech :
" the refolutian of the Executive still to per
fifl in pacific means of negociation," and
what thus led to analyse the motion for a
mendment submitted to the committee. He
sincerely approved of this intention of the
Executive, and most earnestly wished that it
might be attended with success : No man
could more anxiously deprecate a war, than
himfelf, or was more impressed with a persua
sion of its calamities; and he knew that his
constituents were solicitous to avoid it by all
honourable means. The preamble of this
motion was not in his view objeiflionable ;
but to cxprefs the sentiment " that the French
merely intended to fufpind the ordinary, and
bring into use the extraordinary means of inter
course with foreign nations, was decidedly a
gainli his judgement. Was it pefiible for
any man of veracity to make this declara
tion r If this was really the sole objett of the
Directory it would hare juftified thedifratffi
of Mr. Monroe, equally with a refufal to re
ceive Mr. Pinckney. A wish to suspend the
ordinary inter'eourfe would have been display
ed in their conduit to the resident minilter :
yet Mr. Monroe was not only permitted to
reside is France in his public capacity for
many months subsequent to the pretended
grievances, but was told by the Diredtory,
•* that he parted with their regret.'* It was
therefore a mod absurd and humiliating apo
logy which gentlemen were disposed to fur
nilh to the French Dire&ory; he believd
they would smile at and disavow it. He
thought it degrading to make, in J heir be
half, timid excuses, whieh they would dis
dain to accept- The only chance for a pro
pitious iflue by negociation, depended upon
permitting the executive the constitutional
depoQtory of this right, to exercise a free
agency, and the subsequent clanfe of the
motion, which diftated terms to tie execu
tive in the removal of the inequalities of our.
treaties, was equally impolitic and injudici
ous. It was probable that the executive
would make the concelfion alluded to by the
gentleman, if an equivalent could be obtain
ed, by a compensation for our ioffrs, and the
security of our peace ; but of this he mutt
be the judge, and we should leave him free
to grant it as a facritice made to the desire
of peace, and not authorize the French to
claim it as a right—if it was known before
hand, that the exeeutive was bound, and
that the minister was inilru&ed, to remove
a pretended eaufe of grievance, without any
flipulation for an equivalent, he would com
mence his overtures under manifeft disadvan
tage. The Direftory, secure of one pre
teufion, would probably urge others. In the
prefentcafe, there was 110 reason to conclude
that the grievance ariling from " the inequali
ty of exijling treaties," which was the only
one mentioned 6y the mover, was the princi
pal source of our disagreement with the
French, or that removing that alone vwsuld
«lfe& our objeft. Did he therefore mean to
pinion the executive down ta that (ingle con
cession ? Or would he enlarge his motion,
and diredt the executive to fay that our laws
should be repealed, and the judgments of our
C9urtß vacated ? Was it wife or politic to
publiffo to the world, at the outset of an Em
bassy, the ultimate terms that were to be of
fered, and to fend an envoy with open orders
ta accede to every demand of the French
Natien ? If he was t» b.' dispatched under
these auspices, let him be decorated not with
the cap of liberty, upon which our former
motto, was " liberty or death," but fuL,fti( ute
in it*.place " humiliation andfubmiffiou to your
will." He may then perhaps be admitted
to th: honors of a fitting.
Mr. Otis then proceeded to the last divi-
Gon of his fubjeft, the means of defence re
commended i'j the speech. It was, he said,
unfair to conncfl with an approbation of such
measures a difpofuion for hostilities with the
French. War was the greatest of all pofli
ble calamities into which the pride of kings,
or the ambition of rulers, could plunge and
provoke an unoffending aud neutral natior.
He did not presume that any member in that
house could derive a benefit from so deplora
ble a condition ol society. But a small por.
tion of them would probably go into the ar
my ; and of that portion, few could expeft
to make foitunes by their commifiions. A
desire of war, was therefore entirely out of
the queflion. He never undcrftcod that
w: ;n contTOvrr .en 01 a threatening nfpeft
fufefitieJ between rarnns-prefraratory aJii dt
fenftve meafiMes were cor.ttrtird into aits o'
liability, or iiiro a determination to mike
war ()ri the contrary, the dfage of all na
tions fa i£tioned CjcUACyu'luA. Hi;
not however, rcfurl to monarchies, O" to
great and formidable nations, for examples ;
but to' tfie litrie republican canton of birfle ;
That independent territory, was expoferl like
our own country to the. unfounded cr.fjiiii.il
tions, and unmerited oirtiages, of boltileand
belli\;erenc nation*. But in ifply to the re
quisitions of the French ; it bravely infilled
upon the right of remaining neuter, and an
notyicrd itsdrlign of augmenting iia milita
ry eftablilhaieni, tor the proteilion and-.nain
tetiance of its r.eutrality. Perhaps this car
ton may be compelled to dipart from tilts sys
tem. Possibly it 1,:.s no longer the power of
exercising its own will ; but it will not be
pretended that this defenlive conduit evinced
on their part, a willingness to be engaged in
war. It was then a fimpleenquiry, whether
under the prcfent afpeft of our effaits, war
might not be brouglft home to our doois,
contrary to our wishes, and prior to a Hate
of preparation. Gentlemen were willing to
fay, that if negociation failed, there would
bean end to every friendly relation between
the two countries. Our poflure then would
be unfriendly: and who can fay it will no:
fail ? If a war with this country makes any
part 6f the fxflem French aggrandise
ment, we should probably have it without the
forms of confutation. Do gentlemen sup
pose that when negociation shall have abso
lutely failed, the French will give us time to
equip our veflelfe, fottify our ports, and bur
nish our arms, in order to (hew us fair play.
Let gentlemen consider our defencelefs situa
tion in such citcum'tances.—Let them not
pause until it should be too late.—The tide
of conquell has deluged Europe ; it might
swell the great Atlantic, and roll towards our
shores, bringing upon its troubled fuiface
the spirit of revolution, which might spread
like a pestilence, poflibly in the Southern
States, and excite a war of themoli dreadful
kind—of slaves agaiuft their mailers ; and
thereby endanger the exillence of that union
so dear to his conllituents, and the reparation
of which would be painful as the agonies of
death. He concluded with many other ob
fcrvations, having for their ofcjeit, th'e pre
servation of the Union, the necessity of form
ing and displaying a national chara&er, and
a demonstration of the absurdity of suppo
sing that the President of the United States,
at this period of his life and reputation, could
feel an inteteft in promoting a rupture be
tween France and this country, by any mea
sures he might adopt.
By an advertisement from the Port Office,
New-York, it appears that an Extra Mail for
Bslton, will be made up every Tuesday, Thurs
day and Saturday ; and depart with the Uhsde
Island Mail at 9 o'clock, A. M.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Port of Philadelphia.
The mate of a vessel belonging to this
port, who was landed at the Capes, hasjuft
reached the ci:y; and informs that he was
taken, together with four other outward
bound veflels, by a French privateer of 14
guns, io the mouth of the Delawaie.
Arrived. Days.
Ship India, Afhmsaii, Madras*
Diana, ——, London 52
Schooner Eliza, Stcvcnfon, St. Bartholomew'* 15
CL KA AID.
Ship Brothers, Henderton Amsterdam
Aurora Sutcr Hamburg
Brig Donna Cecilia, BroderfoX do.
Franklin, Morris, Wilmington, D.
Maria, Strong Charleston
Schooner Tclegjraph, Davifon Alexandria
Pomona, Gardiner Boston
Experiment, Etherfoa Baltimore
Saucy Jack, B~>ggea Norfolk
Frier,dlhip, Odlin. Curracoa
Two-Sifters, Carmut, North Carolina
Sloop Nabby, Abbot St. Thomas
Peggy, Herrv Alexandria
The Harriot lc!t at St. Thomas, the nth iait.
Schooner Little Fanny, Cox, of this port.
Ulalia, Wheeler, do. from Bordeaux.
Polly, Davis, do Philadelphia.
New York, May 25.
arrived. days.
Brig Mary, Church, London 49
Excradt from a journal of a pafleuger on board
the brig Mary.
April 19, spoke thelhip Cleopatra,capt. Con
nor, from Baltimore, bound to Bremen, out 13
diys.
April 30, at 5. P. M. saw a fail to the Soifth
and East, ltanding to the north, at hilf past;,
P. M. fpokeher ; (heproved to be the Young
William, Macey, from South Georgia, bound
to London. We took on board capt. Farmer,
and two ®fhis hands, who were Ihipwrecked at
the island of South Georgia in the Suutli Seas,
who with the whole of the (hip's company, a
mounting to 13 hands, remained on the defart*
island for 8 months, surrounded by snow and
ice.
For the GizTttc of the United Slates.
M*. FEN NO,
I am at a Ipls to underdand what gentlemen
mean by undertlking to jujtify the Preficient in a
late appointment he made. As for Mr Bache, it
han been his fettled purpose f.r this iong time to
vilify every ait of the f ircitive w : thout difti c
tion, and therefore wc cannot wonder at his a'i
furdity in the present inflanee ; but t cannot fee
any nt ceflity for the friends of government endea
voring to r.futi Uis assertions —It appears that he
has mifreprefunted the matter by Rating it to be a
new appointment; but allowing tliat it -was a new
appointment, what d fhonor could accrue to the
PreQdent for making it ? It is always the duty rf
the Executive to place in ofiice thole whom he
deems moll worthy; and to withh®ld it from any
man of merit, merely because he was a relation,
would be extremely censurable, since it would 1*
renouncing the interests of hi- country fur the feif
i(h purpose of appearing to a& difintereftedJy.
It is to be hoped that those who are called to
preside over this csuotry will always view tl.eir
own families as part of the great body of the Re
public, and will nci.htr (hew them any particular
favor, nor be deterred from advancing them to
honor when their merit and abilities recommend
them
It used to be remarked by way of en:ominm
upon the adminiflration of Walhington, that he
never appointed a relation to fill any public flntion.
For my part, though I revcrethc excellence of this
great ch-tra&tr as much a< any or.e, I could never
fee any thing in thii circumfiuicc that demanded
applaufc. It was bo more than hi 3 duty. While
there we're any men to be found which, in hit opi
nion, were letter qualified to fcrve their cour.'ry
thru his own connexions, it won!d have been he
tr ytng his rule twinge given. them the *rcitr
cr.ee.
On the other £ard # if he thought tye)! cf them,
and d. ilir.ed to advafced t-t'Oi only left hi* imour
,t:*lky ' c.u;J be cal.'cd in fcueftiori, it v/as equally
criminal: fa tl.c one ujft r>ce the public is
•facri&ccJ to private friendship, and in the other,
to popularity.
.Theft: obier vat-ions are not offered as conveying
any new ideas. Upon the but only made be
wufetlie cenfiirerscf jVTr. BacheV.nfmuation learn
ed to adaiit by thejr mode of reasoning that if
Cache's charge had besn true, ir had been a reftroa.b.
A MONlTCfci.
\ GUSTA, May ir.
A foreigner made his appearance ia Art*
gufta in ihe touile of last week, to wfiom
fume-gave the title of a Spatulh general
otl.ers, that of a i'Vench gcnerjil, and fom.;
again called him the governor of Louiftana;
be his rank what it may, it is certainly undcr
ftood, that his errand was to induce Atttef:-
caiis to aid and afilll the republic («f France
in their new dotnintyns, the Flortdas, in cafe
of any attempt by the Britifli in that quarter:
A very delicate reqtiffltion this, on the pare
of ciiher France or Spain, whitlt theo/v in
fnlts us with the difmiflal ef our ambassador
and seizes our property wherever it cm be
found } arid the ether rrfufesto furresder the.
pofta which by solemn treaty they had yield'
ed to llie United States ! It is doubtless a
very natural predile&ion fi>r the people of
the Southern country, to prefer their Spanish
neighbor* to any change which the present
profprft of affniis piomifes; but drfpotie as
the fyHem of the Britiih government is, it
would be found to fait uj quite as well in
the way of neighbourhood as the liberty
and equality wiiich emanates from the
terrible republic. The Saturnalia fejla in an.
cient Rome were well enough for» little
fun occasionally, but \hc perpetHafatvrnali*,
would go d—mn*—bly ( again It the gtain of a
Georgian or Carolininn.
FREDRICKSBURG, May 19,
Sporting Intelligence
Wat run for, over Tappahannock ground, on the
9th inlt. a purse of Eighty Peunds ; which wa»
won with great ease by Mr. Tayloe'smare Virago,
in jwo heas ; beating Mr. Butler's horse Colum
bus, Mr. Holkiu's mare Kitty Medlty, Mr. Sel
don's horse Flagilator, Mr. Alcjnnder's horse-
Gloucester, and Mr. Turner's horft. Planter.
On the ioth, a Purse of Forty Pounds, which
won by Mr. Tajloe'smare,Calypfo, in two heats;
beating Mr. Alexander's horse Le 800, Mr. Scl
don's horft Colleflor, Mr Hoikin's mare Bctfcy
Baker, Mr. Butler's mare Camilla, and Mr. Dun
bar's horse .4 lborack.
And on the nth, a cup of 20 guineas value,
vrhich was was by Mr. Taylor's mare Flirtilla,
in two mile heats; distancing Mr. Turner's mare
Kitty Boxer, Mr. Smith's horse Baron Trenck,
Mr. Alexander's mare Creeping Cate, and
Mr. Young's horse Whittle Jacket.
N. B. Mr. Turner's horfeJPlatiter, and Mr.
Dunbar's horse Alborack, were diflanced the
firil heat; Mr. Alexander's horse, Gloucester,
was drawn after the firft heat. All the other
horses are inserted as they came ill the second
heat.
Lailson's Circus,
South Fifth-Street•
The Performances at the NEW CIRCUS
This Evening, May Ifth,
Will begin by a Grand Parade of Equestrian
Performers of both sexes.
A grand display of Horfemanfliip,
By MefTr#. M'Donald, Herman, C. Vandcve.de,
Nicholas Corre, (being his firft appearance in this
city) Sully, (the Clown) and Ltilion.
The Lofty-Tumbling Group,
Composed of MefTrs*,Sully, Reano, and M'Do
nald, the Clown, will execute fevtral difficult ex
ercises on the will be plcafantly de
corated.
Mr. Svs.tr y in the chara&er of Clown, will
perform a variety of Comic Feats.
Mr. Lai lson will perform levcral curious and af
touiihiug cxercifes, which he will not undertake to
enumerate, in order to furpriz the foc&aior ; his
aim bring to plea'e and nothing Ihali be negle&cd
co tender the txercifci worthy the attention of the a
rnat<*urs of this new art.
After which will be prefentcd the Pantomime
called
Le Marechal de Logis j
Or, THE TWO THIEVES.
In which Madame Douvilliers will dance fcreral
Pas Stuls.
The evening's entertainment will conclude with a
second representation of
HA RLE QUI N'S WHIM;
Or, The Doctor Outwitted.
Hirlcqvir., Alt . Sully, jun.
No d/n,(ibe May':t:arJ \
,uM a f« t in darJ.r, j Mr S *"*
Fjnta!s»n t Ivfr. *R:ano
l r aJet, Ar. Sjvtit
Lvucr t Mr. Largley
CSoun t Idir. KundafilJe
Co'ombiie, Mtfs Sophie,
Jf! In rehearfa!—L'AMANT JALOUX, a
French CTperain three aits, in which the fame gen
tleman who performs in the character of Geronte,
the Melomanie, v\ ill perform in that «>f Don Lopez.
At O'Ellers's Hotel.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining ;
On Monday Evening, May 29th, at 8 o'clock,
IVill be delivered,
The effects of Ambition and Guilt, consider
ed, traced and exemplified in the charj&er of
MACBETH}
With j. recitation of the whole charadler,
nd moral and critical obfi-rvatioßi on tke cha
afler and the autho .
Tickets (half a dollar each) tsbeh:dof Mr.
Poulfon, at the I.ibrary, and at the Bar of
O'ElUrs' Hotel. .
Lolt—A Gold Bratelet,
Marked S. H with a double Chain. Any
perl'on v.ho may hive found it, and will return
it at No. 47, Pcnn-flreet, will be handfoqtely
reward«d.
May i-j. d:f
Pennfyl vaniaPopulition Company-
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further afleflHient of kin e dol
lars is levied oa each {bare, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the iltof July next.
Which they are requested to pay ta the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Gffiee,
No. 53, North Fourth-street, sgreeably to the
times above mentioned j and they are further
informed, that on their neglecting to pay the
fime «s above dire&ed, the fevtral forfeitures
will be exaded.
By order of the Beard,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treifurer.
1 May 17. djot
May »7Important Public Document. [
-— * col
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, Fo:
And for Sale
At the OfF.ce of the Ed tor oi the Gaiette of the
United 'tales, aut
No. 119 Chefuut-Strett,
[niCi ONI COLLAR AND FIFTY CENtf] CO
A FEW COPItS OF THE triJ
Receipts and Expenditures |^
OF THE UNITED STATES, j , 10
For the Year 1795, I ma
TWhStlie r.ATtST Period to which an account |
tan he made up.
February i». §•
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST k ad jjroof,
Gin, of 4th )>roof, in p ; .p?s
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Gtafs Tumblers, in pints apd half-pints ,
Window Glass, in boxes, of different li«s '>'
Hazlennts, in sacks
Whiting
SpaniH) Brown J
For Sile by
PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 §•
S W A N N'S J_
Riding School, Worfc Academy Infirmary, F
Adjoining the Pablic Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN i
RETURNS hij sincere thanks tothofe pentlemcn by
whom he has been employed, during his residence in
this City, «nd flatters himfelf that the fuecefi of his
efforts, in the numerous, obflinate and dengerous dif
rafei in Hotfes, in which he has been cnnfulted, to
rether with his moderate charges, will fccute their
future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public
at large that his spacious and commodious premises,
erefted for the purposes above described are open for
the reception of pupils of either lex, who wilhto be
inflruited in the Art of Riding, and the light method
ot governing their horses, so as to ride them with
eaie elegance, and fafety—their horses will be care
fully an ! expeditioudy broke, for every purpose, ai d P
made obedient to he will of the riders ; the natural
powkrs which are (hut up in them, will be unfolded .
by art, calling forth uniformity ot rooticn, and giving
to that nobleaniraal all thoie beauties of aftion which
providence has so bountifully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hofpit«l. every diiorderto which the
horse is liable will be treated according to the rules of
art, confirmed by longandrepeated experience. hi
The utility ot the above inllitution has never been
qneftio.icd.that it has loog becft wanted in this city,
evsri gert'.eman's llud willmanifeft, and T. Swann
as the firft ellahlifher of the vetcrenary art, solicits and
lelies upon the fuppoitof that public (which he is
ever anxious in fetvirig) to enable him to bring it to
perfeftion. The idea of a fubfeription for that pur
pose has beeu hinted by feversl gentleman, who with
to proiaoif the inllitution —the amount of each sub- .
fcripuon to bercturned by furviccs in any of the de- *
partmentsjhe orofelfes, agreeable to the rate of charges
Uatcd in iis hand bill. Suchfubfcription is now o- "
pen, and the signatures of many refpeflable gentlemen
already obtained. He therefore injorms hi. friends
and h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the horor of being known, that he shall in a few
tiayitikethe libertyof wsitinp upon thtm and folici-
ting their support and prott-£kioo. (
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those La
diesand Geutlemenwho with to be inftruftfd.
Nov. j.- tth&t
, Advertisement. ,
To le fold ut private sale, <
A LIKELY strong bay HOIISE, 5 years '
old, fit for the saddle- Also, a likely full
blooded MARE, 4 years old, runs well, and is
now fir for the pith— hey are lately from Vir
gin!!, and may be seen at the ftah'es of Jamts ,
M'Cawley, No. 45 in Cherry alley. Any per
son desirous to buy either on both, mull apply
to the owner, at «r. Valley's corner ef Cherry
a'.ley and Fourth-ftreet^
May
Lancaster, Harrijburgh, Carltjle,
'Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGE S.
'"T'Hii public arc Tequefted to take notice, that
_L the'partnerfhip which has for some time sub
sisted betWKim Nfathias Sk'ugh of Lancaster, and
William Geer, it now diffolvcd : but, not as M.
SloujrU infin«ate« to the public witlioat juff- cause ;
as will more fully appear by :i,letter on the fub
jeft from M. Mlouph t. VV. Oecr, dated the 19th
December lall. a reciul of vthich i, not now deem
ed iicceffar'y Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumliantlally informed of the merits of
this buffn -fs" hy applying to W. Geer may have
tiR-pcrufal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at fu:l liberty to determine whether or r.ot W.
C.-cv is net perteflly juftifiabie in attaching him
f-if to aDy other per ton in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, cr any other place.
New from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased Jo confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Gffer, in conjunction' with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Wi'.mer, is determined
to prosecute and c=rry ifon, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic canpoflibly exert.
'flie above company, who are amply provided
wi:'-' carriages; horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fcife and commodious, inform
thoW v.'fiu v/ifh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Cnrlifle aud Shippenfburg. 'J'he fare as hitherto
eftafelilied.
Per the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county* every Tburfday,
and refurn from theace and ?..rive at Hauifburg
every Saturday,io tfcat passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed 00 MOll
- GEE It.
Lancaster, Jar. 27. *797-
Rf.TT" This Line ef Stages fiarts from th?
house of William Pcrree, in Lancaster, on every
Tu£fday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Saynel Elder in Harrifburg. etery Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pe
trick "Cochran's in bhippenfourg, and returns
frofi\ thence cn eicry Thursday : perfdrmmg the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. "' wf
GOLD AND SILVER
bullion.
THE fcigl.eft price in ready money will be gi
ven for gold or silver bullion, old gold or
silver, or gold du», at No. 39, North Stventl.-
ftrtet.
April 10 iaw6w
A PEWJIOXES OF
Bologna Sausages,
X)f a superior o«ality, to be SolJ at No.
100, B<»uih l 7 ronl-Streei.
Aprilto, tetf
nph'Eiioidcrj of F.cbert Mortis ;r.i John Li-
L ekolfen's cores w.d acceptances, dcpofitcd a;
collateral fecuriiiesfnr the engagements of Edward (
Fox and TamesGrecijltaf, are recuefted to
TAKE NOTICE
Thai the fubferibers, ;t the rer-ifft and by the
authority of the holdersof near Dir." tenths ot the
amount of the papor above alluded to, have receiv
ed from George Simpfon, Efr» an aflignment of the
trull under which the said ncte* and acceptances
are secured, together with all t 1 e deeds and obli
gations thereunto attached-*—therefore any applies- , »
fion tor lale of any part of fa d propertyis to be
made to THORIAS W* 1 RANCIS,
HENRY PRATT, L . ;
JOHN MILLf.P, jun. " u
JOHN ASHLEY, " e l
JACOB BAKKR. - tor
March i. m*th f ■ _
JNotice. A
April yd. 1797-
THE Managers of the Canal Lottery, No.
11, an nounce to the public, that the
drawing will positively commence on the twen
ty-r.inth of May next. Tickets to be had of %
either of the managers, and at the Canal Office.
Wm. MOORE SMITH, Sec'y. JC
April 3 ' mth,t29thM
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For print log aud publishing, by fubfeription, The
Hiflory of Pennsylvania, a n
IN North-America, from the original UifHuitien and
settlement of that province, under the firft propri
etor and governor, William PenMj in i6Bi» till
after the year 174*; with 9 l
AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpe&ing the Life of w. PENN» ab
Prior to the grant of that Province, and the reli- t j (
eious Society of the people called Quakers; with the jjj
FIRST RISEof the NEIGHBORINGCOLONIES,
msre particularly ot WEST-NEW- JERSE\ , and the _
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES 011 DEL A- J
>VARE,
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general Hate, in which it flourifhed, T
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The L
whole including a varietv of things, ufeful and in- m
terefting to be known, refpetting that country incariy
time, &c. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years 1776,' and 1780, F<
By Robert Proud. so
l( Pukhrum eji benefacere rtipublicce, etiam henedicere
baud abjuidum eji t vel pace vel bello clarum fieri licet''
fal.Catalin.
" Sedcum plerique arbiti entnr res bellicas majores ejfe
quam urbanas. minuendaefl hcec opinio."
1 Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law,)
" WILLIAM PENN, the great legifiator of the
Quakers, (in Pennsylvania) had the fucceCs of aeon- ti
queror, in efbbHlhing and defending his colony, a- }i
inong favagetribea, without ever drawing the sword ; c
the goodness of the most benevolent rulers, in trea
tiog hisfubje&s as his own children ; and the tender- <
ncis of an universal father, who opened his arms to r
all mankind without diftin&ion of feft or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per- 0
fonal merit, that entitJcd member of society to *
the prote£lic* and emolument of the State*" r
EJfay on Toleration, by Arthur O'Lcary. r
CONDITIONS. t
J. This work will be printed in two oftavo volt
umes, neatly "bound and lettered, both in sheep and {
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper Ami- \
5 lar to that of the conditions, as pubiijhed in the Sabjcrip
j Ufa papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en- ,
5 grjved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map qt j
sketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the j
5 second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
' and an hajf in sheep, and five dollars in calf< one *
- dollar to be paid at the time of fubfejibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firft: volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed '
for, the work will be out to press and finifhed with
? all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
f«o, jun. Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by lfaac Col
t lins Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New
- York; by John P. Pleafants and George W. Field,
d Merchants. Baltimore; and by other persona both
[. in town and country.
; February iß> tu&f
I - To be fold or let,
-And immediate pojfejfion given,
e A genteel two story Brick House ;
e Ql I'UATE on the urper end of Broad-street, in
O the city of Burlington, with f6ur rooms and
i- an entry on each floor, good cellfrs under the
i£ wliole, a pump m the yard, a garden and court
f- yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
iefice, with aft able. adjoining the yard. The
ie whole property is in good order,
in For terms apply to the fubfenber in Burlington,
:h who v/ill give a credit for a considerable part of
:d the purchase money if good fecu/ity is given.
William Coxe, jun.
3 ~ May 17. aawtf
:d
William Haydon,
ie Drawing Majler, from London ;
at he ftudicd fjveral years under cne
e, V i of the mofl emineKt malters in that fci
»y ence. He attemls young ladies and gentlemen
g> at (heir refpeAive houses. His terms are fix
t0 dollars per month for attendance three times
pir week; likewise all kind of ornamental
■ c ' painting, fruit','floweis, &c. taught on the above
terms.
n " A line direfled to W. Haydon, No. 16, Pear
1 i r ' street, will b« immediately attended to.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will bie par
ur titularly advantageous, where there arefeveral
pnptls in the fame family ; as he makes no al
teration in his terms if there are two or three
to teach in one family.
h, Ma y 9-
„ y This Day is Publiflied,
of sV MelT- Dobfon, Carey, Campbejl, Rice, and the
e f. other Bookfellcrs,
rtce One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
r,is Rlegant'y printed on IVcue paper, and Hat
he frtjfed,
el- r»y John Thoropfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with other, and with
tliat of five United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Conft'tut;on, and
or clafling together their most important provifious,
ki*- under the several heads cf administration; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Caroline,
L L. D. and member of •the Corjjrefs gf the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of tht United States.
Jo.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
pciy at 3-4thsof a doHar.
February 6 mwf
lapcr.'cd in tie si/ip PtgaUy
And for lale by John Morrott, No. 116, L'oiul. A
Front-ilrtet, V
Hyson Bp r
Hyson Skin ( rEAS »
liounj Hyson (
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
For Sale, 3
TWO LOTS OF GROUND in Kenfing- get
ton, on the south fide of Hanover-street, ten
containing thirty-fix feet in breadth and one f ee
hundred and fixty-fevtn and a half feet in j„
depth to a twenty feet alley For further ill
formation enquire at No. "37, Arch-flreet. ft r(
March 18. eodtf_
All persons who have any demands j 1 ®
the cftate of J6hn Finlay, deceafifd, so '
are requested to exhibit their accounts proper- o{]
ly attested on or before the aoth of May next—
and'thofe who are indebted to said estate are re- c j J
quested to make immediate payment to either of oy
the Subscribers. 0 f
ROBERT HENDERSON, | Mmimftratori an
JOHN M'CARA, 5 ya
April 26. loi
~ ~
Translations. £
MEMORIALS, aclvertifcnveiits, epillolary, cu
and fothcr writings in French and En
glift), undertaken by Samuel Chandler, A. M.
translator of Le Moniteur, L'Oblervateur, Les _
Quatre Tils Aymons, L'Heroine Americain,
and many olher French authors.
S. C. has been in the l»abit of compiling for
the most approved publications, occasionally
attending where the hurry of bufmeis may re
quire his immediate attendance. 1
Encouraged and afiifted by gentlemen of X
abilities, he propefes publishing by fubferip- gc
tion, a work in French and Englifli, by the tu
title of The American Speßator. The profpe<Sl- gi
us maybe seen at his lodgings, No. 671 Arch- w
Jireet.
April *7. t C
——
Benjamin & .Jacob John fan,
No. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia, 111
HAVE jafl received by the Connecticut and other
late arrivals lrom Liverpool, a general aflbrt-
ment ot well chosen
Dry Goods,
For the ensuing Seafou, for sale on the lowest terms
for cash or the common credit.
A large collcftion of Books at their u&ially mo
derate prices.
4th moath, 25th, *797» tw&t4
To be fold at Public Vendue, o]
To the highest bidder, at the house «f Mr. f(
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 2jth
day o.f Oflober next, at II o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Rcifter's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little AVinchefter, (the turn
pike road runs through a confiderabie partfof
these lands) the trail begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dif
, tance of absut twenty-three milta from Balti
more, and liw on the main falls of Patapfico
fiver, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor- g
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
L some of them highly improved, with excellent
■ buildings and fine gvifs.
ALSO,
■ A tra£t of seven hundred acres of
' land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
: Bladenfhurg, efleemed very good for Grass.
, Richard Ponfonby.of Bladenfburgh, will shew
. this land to any p-rfon inclined to purchase.
I ALSO,
- A tradt of land of about three hun
j dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
J and a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
. high profpedl, from which may be fcen the
e city of Washington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and miles
- down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
'• by, of Bladenfbuig, will also shew th.s land.
h A liberal credit will be given for the gteateft
part of the purchase money. Ihe terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extradl of an afl pnffed by the Legislature of
> the state of Maryland on the 29th December,
r. 1791, entitled, "An ail for ereiling a bridge
d over Potowmac river.
le <• And be it enaSed, that the said direilors or
rt any two »f them lhall and may require any sum
ld or sums of money in equal proportion from each
ie and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necessary for carrying on the building of said
"j bridge; and after giving three months public
notice, it shall and may be lawful for the direil
ors R> sue for and racover in the nam» of the
company such unpaid requilition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interelt
thereon from the time the fame should have
been paid: And the negleil or refufal to pay any
fnch requisition after public notice shall have
been given at least for three months in all the
ne newspapers hei eiti before enumerated, fliall have
:i- the effeil to forfeit all preceding payments made
En on the Ciarc or (hares so negleiUJ or refufedto
ix be paid t9 the use and benefit of the company."
es The above extract is published for the infor
al mation of such cf .the llockholders as have not
vc complied with the rcquifitions heretofore made
as follow: On the ill November,
>3r 1795, 20 dollars, on the ibth May, 4°
dollars; an the eoth July, 1796, oil
ir- the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ral ift November, dollars. Caution is
al- now given that After the expiration of the time
ce limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effeil against all deliu
— quents.
By order of tile Direilors,
Ihc WALTER SMITH, Treajurer.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797* !Mr 3 m
"■ Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second-Urea.
I"*ICKETS »a the Canal Lottery-, No. 2, for hit
drawing the 19111 day of May next—Checkbooks
lth fin- regiilering and examination in this, the City
!es > of Washington, No. a, and Paterfon Lotteries,
Ltui now drawing, are kept—also information where
:us > Ticket lin Washington, No. a, and Patttrfon majr
i'l> be had—Tickets io th« Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
for sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as i!7u«d,
Ticketsin all the other Lotteries authorized by the
Legislature of thisflatc wilf be for sale.
the The lutfcriler falicits the appli atron of thepuli.
lie an J his friends whawifh 10 fell bank flock, ccr
tificates, bills of exchange or notes, houses, land,
.•a- ic.orto obtain money on dep.fit of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN.
April 2
For Sale,
A pair tf Geo J Black Carriage
Which ihuy befcca ky application a- No. 114, J\
Spruet Street, between SeccnJ and Third. j- j
M*y»- «• we
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three ftnry Brick Houie ; '
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to tl.a bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it llaiuia, to-
gcth'er with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreet. The house is about 50
feet in front en and about 42 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 on Goforth
ilreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
ffcreet and Carter' 9 alley into Dcck-ftreet at the
horse market. The house con lifts of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the T
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
-1 hen, with extensive cellars under, and garret# Y
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this houle
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame flable and dwelling house on
Gofarth-ftreet. The prcrnifes new rent for w
£*3lß per annum. To t»e fold clear of all in- of
cumbrances. w
For terms apply to John Clement Stocker. at
April sco 3*wtf
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, Nerth Seeondjlreet,
A few doors above Arch-flreet,
INFORMS bis friends and the public, that he has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowest terms, a C
genejml affortraent of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint pi
gill and half gill do. exacft measures, decanters and an
wine glaffe6 ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint io
bowls, and china in sets and separate ; pocket ft;
bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and fit
half gallon bottles; Ory Goods, &c. See. at
N. B. Crates put up with care at the fkorteft no
tice. th
May n, ui
— in
Chocolate and Mallard
Manufailured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter I
Taunton and Bwiton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled, h<
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon —fuitaole w
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Hawsrtb.
No. 98 south Front street.
May 18 th4W- v
— " ■ a
City of Washington.
SCHEME ,
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
1 Ear the Improvement of the Federal City.
I
' A magnificent dwel'.ing-houfe 10,000 dollars, 1
" & cash 30,000, are 50,80 a 1
> 1 ditto 15,000 & cafe 25,000 40,000 %
t 1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto io,oao U cash 10,000 ao,«oo 1
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
( j ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I cash prize of 10,000
ado. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000
10 do. 1,000 • - 10,000
v 20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000 ]
100 do. 50 - - 10,04(1 ;
400 do. 35 " 10,000
:s 1,000 do. a© * 40,000
:- 15,00s) do. 10 - 15©, 000
e —:
e 16,739 Prizes.
1a 33,261 Blanks.
:s
1- 50,000 Tickets, at E:ght Dollars, 400,000
ft N. B. Tofavour thofewho may take a quan-
II tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni:
_ And approved notes, securing payment in either
tnon«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received fox any number not less than 30 tick
ff ets.
r, This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ol
;e the private buildings to he ertiled in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
or fcleiled for the entire fronts on two of the public
m squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to erect
1] two centre and 'our corner taildiags,as icon as pof
nc fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
:j c the mannerdefcribed in the'fchenie for the Hotel
». Lottery. A nett deJuSion of five per cent, will
.' be made to defray the necessary cxpenfes of print
-11 ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a pan of
.! the fund intended for the National Univeriity, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
vt The real fecurit.esgiven for the payment of the
1 V Prizes, are held by the Prchdent and two pirea
vc ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
I,e wore than half the Etncuntof the lottery.
ve SAMUEL BLODGKT.
(1e »§« Tickets may be had at the Dar.k of Colcm
to l-ia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
•" Oilman, Boflon ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
» r - and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Terry,
lot mwf
de -
40 * or Sale >
011 At the Office ot the Uazette of the United
| ie States, No. 119, Chelnnt-flieet,
is The la/l Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury; being a brief liiftory of the
state of financial (concerns of the United States.
ied The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United State, refpeiilng the western m
furreilion s Containing many laiils and cir
cutn fiances no where else to be found, 30
cents.
_ The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our minister in France. 37 i-» cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
W 6 >79S- , , , , ,
nee A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
oks had to complete setts.
->ty D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva, is 1-1 cents,
naj April 3. $
ery
Th« Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gea.
, Pinckney.
UD- '
ccr- ——.
U-J A few copies of the abovt uitirtfiing paper,
' may be hacf at the office of the C»7.ette of the 17-
T. r.ited State*.
n ' nay 13 5
tea s.
A FEW cheiU of impsriiJ, Hyfcn S'ain and
Souchong Tea) of a luperior quality for
tale at the ft or? of the fubfc.riber, the north
west cor icr of Market and Third»ftreeu.
Patent Shot.
ALSO,
A large CELLAR to be let at a very low rent.
Eiiquireai above of RICHARD WISIAR.
April 39. ftu&thim
7 his Day it Pulli/heJ,
Price sj Cents,
By JOHN OHMROD,
NO. il CHESNUT-STRBET,
A Discourse,
Delivered on the lid of February, 1-97,
At the FUVZRsIL of
The Rev. GiI.BERT TENNENT SNOWDEN,
Pafior of the Presbyterian Church of Cranbeiry,
in the State of New-Jerfty, /
Bytheßrv. SAMUEL STANHOPE SMITH
D.D. Beefident of th« College of Newjerfey
March II 5
The Subicriber,
Determined to retire from business, invites alt
who have anv note, bill, bond or acceptance
of hit, now due, to call for payment ; and thofs
who wilh to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable difcouut.
JAMES SWAN.
May 12. diw.
Dorcheftcr, ncarßoflcfl, 16th May 1797.
TOB E S~oTb,
And possession given immediately,
A Lot of Land;
SITUATED in Mount-Holly, in tite county
of Burlington, in New-Jersey, lately occu
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ar3
an excellent brick house, two (lories hiuh, with
four convenient rooms on each floor, alio a good
stable, carriage house and other buildings. The
situation is valuable for business of any kind, asid
at least equal to ar.y other in the town.
The terms of payment will be made easy to
the purchaser. Apply to William Koffell, lifq.
uire, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
i-n or to the Suhfcr.ber, in the city
of Burlington.
JOSEPH M'ILrAINS.
Burlington, 27th April May S—J3W5 —J3W
To be fold at private iale,
A TWO story dwelling house and lot of ground
in the city of Burlington, (late of New-Jcr
fey, in a healthy and pleasant situation. Thg
house is of brick,containing four good sized rooms,
with a convenient kitchen and cellar. The lot,
on which is a stable, &c. contains about an acr: of
land of the heft quality, with a front luCciciit to
admit two 01 three large hoiifes, independent of
that part at present occupied by the house.
For further particulars erquire of Joseph M'll
vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or Jafeph Reed, No,
214, High-street, Philadelphia.
May 11. co2w
This Day is published,
By THOMAS 1)0 BSO N,
At the Stone House, iio. 41 fouthSeceud-llreet,
Price J7 1-1 cents,
Iwo Leisures on Combustion.
QUpplementary to a courfc of Ledurcs or CHE
, O MISTRY ; containing an Examination of Dr.
Prieftlcy's Confederations on the Do&rine of Phlo
, gifton, and the accompofitioo of Vat' r,
, By JOHN MACLEAN,
> Profeffor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy
, in the College of New-Jersey.
3 May 21 mwfjp
d Venereal Complaints,
"pUNCrifALLY attended to in every flage of
n A that disease, without the use of mercury or
° reflraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple, ou
0 application at 113, Chtfnut-ftrec?, opposite
0 the United States bank, cr at No. 170, Sfoatft Wa
-0 ter-ftveet, between Spruce and Pine-flfcects, where
o he ha> cpened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
pledges himfelf, that nofyftem of cure (however
fpecicus) can be effj&tal without mercury, and
0 that all the known iules of practice for theie two
centuries pail, and united experience affirms, that
any substitute for it is but nugatory, and «ny mode
)C of practice to the contrary rtjuft be futile and de-»
T ceptioirs.
Nevcithclafs, he undertakes, however compli-
Jr cated the cafe, to cfte& a cure without incouve-
nience or injury to the patient's couftitution, and
in time not generally experienced or expe&ed.
N li. Rcgularattcndar.ce at theoifice in Watcr-
Q |- ftteet, fro:* the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the cveji
-1 ing until seven ; but any other time at his dwelling
'• house, in Chefnut street.
May 16. dtf
n, Pennsylvania Population Corn
el pany.
ill XTOTICE is hereby given to the StarchoM
t- -lN ers, that a further afieflmcnt of fifteen
of dollars i< levied on each (hare, payable in the
to following inftalmeiits—viz.
One qu»Ker immediately.
>e Or.e quarteron the ill of Juste.
One quarter ou the iff September.
at One quarter oij the lfl Dec. neit.
Which !hey are requefte-J to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,.
n " No. 5,1 north Fourth street, agreeably 10 ihe
cr times above mentionetf ; and they are further
' informed that on their negledliHg to pay the
fame as above dircfled, the feveial forfeitures
direfled by the Ccnflitution, wifll be exai^ed
By order "of the Board,
SOL. MARACIIE,," '
E d 'trtofurtr.
May 15 §im
r y Gold and Silver, Watches,
OF an excellent quality, and neat fafhionable
Gold Chains. Seals i.nd Keys, Eight Dap
*€ Clocks and Time Pieces, fifnionable Steel and Cii*
in— Chains, &c. Sic. for Sale by
ir- PHN J. PARRY,
jo Clotk aod Wa'chmaker, No. 38. S. idftrset.
Clccks and Watchis of all kinds (.arefull;
[q ripaired. -
May 19. tuef. &f-. jw
y "\ Far Sale,
At lhis H Office,
|j e A«. 119
A few copies.of a late Report of a Cemmittec
of the Soriate, on the fubjeft of the
QtOXGIA LA.XQS.
March 13 §
Caution.
r T" , HE Public are hereby forewarned against
JL trullingthe or the Subscrib
er, and be* mother, his fcoond wife. Repeated
' mifcondnfl compel* him to forbid any perlon to
)er jjive them credit on hi< account, as he wiil pay
U- no debts of their-contnfiirvg after this date.
LUIS'O BROWN.
S Philidilphi*/ Kay i 5, >797 it—ft^t