#a?efte */ the States, & Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Number 1350.3
.The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten 1 Voufand
Dollari,
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
!Ie eats iso weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
rater ;he h drank some c orty bottles of porter,
the corks with his trunk.
Re is *erfe&ly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
tnte of'five twiles an limr, and is the greatest curiosity
'ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in
M*rket-<ftreet between Third and FourtlMlreets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him-—
a Tier which time the former price of hall a dollar wil
"fee reftimed.
Lie will leare Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit !
>> c» nb«r ji
WANTED,
A MECHANIC, to erect Spinning and Weaving
Machines bv water, filch at are used at my manufac
tory-Apply to JAMES DAVENPORT,
Mo. 4oi.North Front-street.
N *B. None need apply but a eompl'ete mechanic,
,and a man of liability.
Gl be Mill, December 29, 1796,
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Irtland ii 1783* or 1784, intw
this Country, ('tis fuppofsd to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead As this intelli
jpetice is of the highest importanQe, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
w &sim
December 31
Elegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting,
For fule by George Dobfon, Ne. 15, South Third-ftrect.
December 15.
FOR SALE,
Tbe schooner ORIIN}
Seventy ton?burthen ; Sftaep months
.j. y - rilfl; her frame is of the befl of white
oak : (he is a faithful built vessel, handsomely finifhed off
and well found in every particular ; is ready to receive a
«ar£o on bourd, and can be put to sea without any ex
pense on her hot), fails or rigging : ihe flows fix hundred
barrels; hat a kandfome ca6iu and ftecrage, and a half
deck which will flew from feventy-iive to eigh.y barrel?;
has been newly caulked, graved and paitited. For term?
apply to fiENJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, corner of Market a*d l'ifth Arrets,
Or to the Captain on board said schooner at Messrs.
Willis and Yardfiey's wharf, adjoining Chefout-ftreet
wh.irf; where there is for sale .
Excellent p'ickled Salmon in barrels,
the best of American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
Boston manufa&ured Chocolate.
December 16
jTjkri For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, mafler.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
flreigltc or paflfage apply to
Who has for lale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and i boxa* L:tien«
25 Pipes Brandy •
Madeira Wine ; Indigo . Russia Mattt*
A few birrel. Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November *1, 1796,
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP M ART,
SAMU. L PARKER, Master,
Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, Ihe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above,
October 31
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DI/IN
Samuel Pile, Matter,'
105 47*95 tens «P®»» ;,t in
Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live oak
and was sheathed. 13 months ago, she
has jufl had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to fa
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin Isf Co
!rhn btive for fate on board said vejel,
b n_ : • ' • '-— — - -
caflcs of fine yellow pauTt.
g /boxes and iz bundles ot writing 112t36*
I box ink stands and note presses.
»4 bales of fail eanvafs.
And on bandy
Imperial }
Byfoii* and, >■ TEAS.
Souchong J „,, „ „ ■ .
40,000 piece. Nankeens of the flrft quality.
19 tubs Qyickfilver. , 1 _
' 1 cherts li"nd.inno handkerchiefs.
A f« v c'nsfts Manchester goodswell assorted 111 Cor
jiur'oyj!, thick sets, Ginghnms, Muflinet!, Dimities, &e.
3 boxes black sewing fiik.
180 crates Qotens ware well aflorten.
10 tans fhett lead.
Nails assorted, flat and ifcarp points.
London Particular, | Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, ■ f and hogfl>ei&s.
New-York Market, J *
40 pipes and 10 hoglkeids TeneriUe wme.
8 tierces Root.
•30 logs Mahogawy.
■ Nov 7
For Sale,
Bv George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and h«H barrels
Ditto Herying and Maekarel.
Soaked Harrlng in barrels and kegs
Ditto ' Salmon, by the iattn or fingW one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentalt
dftU Plaftet 1 of Paris, in the stone
and -roumi, for manure and stucco-work
T - •*
William Bell;
Also,
mwftf
» d
ttK&ftf
THURSDAY EVENING, JANUART 5, 1797.
Philadelphia and Lancaster
Road Company.
A Meeting of the Stockholders for the Election of
a Prefidpot, Managers, and other offieern, will be
held at the Company's uSSee on Monday the 9th Jan.
next, at 10 o'clock.
Bv theßorrd.
WM. GOVETT,Sec'ry.
iawtiftj.dt9 h
December i, 1796.
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION i?TORE.
No. 6j South Third llreet.oppofita the natior.il new Bank.
SAMUEL M FR UNCrS and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
& VAN REED,yi the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commifilon every species of stock, notes of hand,
billfof exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Monet procured on deposits, &c. &c., all kinds c r
writings in the conveyancing liac, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most correA manner. Coallant attond&nce will be given.
They fojicit a Share of the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. 3. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUI-L M. fRAUNCES,
JO N VAN REkD
Philad. Augufl 47, 1796.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No* 64, Smth Second strkkt.
'"THICKETS tn the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sole—a
A Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, l4otel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fuWWiber the application of the public
and his friends, who wiffo to purchafc or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bill* of Exchange or Notes, Houfea, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property-
Also tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
file at Ten Dollars each, which will he drawn early in
tJae Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufl 18, 179, 6• mth
S A L T PETR E.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-ffreet. j.
November 5. - ■
A CARD.
If MonJieur 6. H. Sour, a,
Who left Bordeaux the i»th June last, and arrived
at Bottom ibont th« middle of Aisgoft, in the fehooner
Jane, it in Philadelphia, he is rwjitefted to call on
Jnfeph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, whe
will give him fomc information cf importance.
December 24, '1796
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 2.5,
SOUTtJ THIRD-STREET,
Has received per iht Diana, from London,
Clouded and flriped Spini!h Swanfdcwn
Clouded Erminats And Moleflcim
Striped do. aRd do.
Figured Manillas '
Scarlet figured Errainets
Printed Flwinetts y
Do. Oxfijnets and Caflimsres
Superfine printed Quiltings, newef) pitterm
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general, aflortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the profent and approaching season.
November .5. dtf
FOR SALE,/
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on apd between Marfli
atid Bf-ech Craek9, Mifflin county, Penfrfylyania, in
soar feparale Patents. For terms of sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South S^eond-ftrset.
mwftf
October 31.
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99. North Second Street.
Imperial f Hyson Skin.
Hvi'in, C Frcfh Teas. < Souchong,
Youag Hyson, * J L Bohea
D«c. Q.
Iwsurance Company of the State o:
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, an ele&iori
for thirteen Dire&or? to serve for one year, will be held
at the Company's Office, on Monday the 9th January next,
at II o'clock.—And agreeably to the a& of incorporation
a (Vatement of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before theitt.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, Sec'y.
Philadelphia, December 19, 1796. dt 9th Jan#
1 Imported from London & Liverpool,
EARTHENWARE, in crat-es and hogsheads, well
assorted
Wine Bonks in hampers
Window C*lafs of all fiz^s
.Two gates of stationary
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta (
A small consignment of I'-ofe Blankets., Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &e.
Paints of various colors.
Baiket fait in hogsheads.
A Iso on hand,
Madeira wins, very ©Id, in pipes, hogsheads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
As.» trunks of ladies Frenchihoe> afforttd
Silk nan kern, &c,
Like wife an assortment of Dutch goods, consisting of
Olnabeff«, tieklaahergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platilhc, va»en« duck, Britannias, &c.
And for sale by 111 e package only by
Thomas Ejf John Ketlmid.
Walnut-street Wi»arr.
•otf
N«y. if.
A few hogsheads of choice N. E. Rum,
a»d a quantity of LARD, for file;
Enquire at No. 71, North VViter-Ilreet.
December 24
Turnpike
Imported in the late ttrrh'-ils from Europe and the
Weft- Indies,
( H©lland Gin, in pipes
Choic* St. Croix Sugar atid Kum
Martinique Molaffis, in hoglheads
Choice old LiJbon Wine, in pipes and quart«r-cafU6
London ParaicuUr £c London Market Madeira Wi«*>
in pipe?, half-pipes .ind quarter-caflts
Malmsey Madeira Win«, in pipea and quarter-casts
Teneriffit Wine, is pipes
Russia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Dui-k, in cases
Window Glass, 3 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in caiks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on band,
A few ohtfts of Bohrt Tea ; Jefuitß Bark ; AfTafoe-
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Coflaes,
Baftas, Onrrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete atTortmmt of 5-4 and 6-4
Boifltiag Sloths
October to
m&wtf
A Gold Watch was Found
A few days ago, in the lower part of Second-street.
The owner, on calling at No. 127 in said ftrcet, and
proving it to be bis or heis by a riefcription in writing,
may receive it An piyinj; for this advertilement.
December 29
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, life. &e.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,,
Corner <*f Walnut aa.d Second-streets,
/I mo/i capital and gxttnfive AJfortmcnt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &'c. &c.
kinds
Four
Twenty-five
Si*
Ekve*
Twenty-fix
Cauliflower
Celery
Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Paisley
Pot Marygold' Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyxnfe Mangel Wurtzei
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Qrafs Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Tiir.othy, &c. &c.
With a curious of the i\ioft eftecmed
Three
Five
Tea
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The ahove are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
ara warranted frefti and good.
Printed citaicgucs may 1?e had by applying as above,
Dcc. 17. dtf.
Just Landing,
As South Jlreet wharf, from on loarti the fh'ip Stdg
ley, Captain Hedge, from St. Pelrrfiurg,
The following Goods:
Ruflia Sail Duck, fir ft quality.
Do. Sheeting Jo.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Craft.
Do* While Soap in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of finr yarn.
Ravens Duck.
iGnglafs, lfl and 2nd fort.
Horse Hair uncurled. y
Russia Ear Iron.
Do. Hoop iron.
Do. f Nail Rods,
iq Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peterihurg Clean Hemp;
O&ebcr 12,
.THE fubferibers finding it impofiible to fnpply their
store with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufifleries, give no
tice that they will fell at prime; cost the remaining
Heck on hand, ctSnfifting of
Dessert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Caps and Saucers
Croupes and Figures
Alabaster Vases
Looking Slafles, in gHt frames,
Bcfides India Japan'd Toilet Deik», Chairs, Ta&les
md Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIEK ic Co.
Ne. 9f, South Seeond-ftrett.
3 taw 3m«
December sth
For Sale,-
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordagte,
GdnSfting of different fizea, from 11 inch cables down,
to fope of aincliee/of different lengths: in
the fliip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. >7. ' _dif
Those Gentlemen who hold any of the undermen
tioned Notes o'Draught* (whether due or net J arc
requested to meet at the City-Tavern on Wednesday
next, at 6 o'clock in the evening i at which time an
arrangement will be ];ropofed which it is expsfled will
be fatiafaftory to the holders.
Edward Fox's notes in favor of James Gre«n!eaf.
James Greenleaf's notes in favor of Edward Fox.
James Greenlflfs draughts on Edward Fox.
Abraham Dubois's note to Edward Fox,
Edward Fox's note to Abraham Dubois.
Jamet Oretnleaf $ draughtt on Abraham Duboii.
At tbr reQiifJt of * major fart *f tht Gentlemen
inttrtfltd.
Deeembcr 19.
For Sale by
Pragers Is? Co.
dswm&tham
Among which are,
[Three
[Twelve
Thirteen
Afparagus|:
Bcrecolej;
BcHPRr
I Fifteen
Beets;
BrocQlif
Cabbage!
Carr«t
Fifteen
Six
Four
iTwcnty-three
Twenty-one
Mould Candle*, 4, 5 and 6, to thej lb. of the
Englift £25. y „
White Candle Tallow.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & C®.
_ S
Cheap French China.
NOTICE.
EDWARD FOX.
dtw
diw
No. 2s t South Thifd-flreet,
Has just received, per £agle, Capt. Fofdich, rial; (fife*
don, an aiTortment of
Scarlet "N
Drab / Cloaks trimmed with his and
Purple and { ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. §
A new method of keepirlg Bill Books,
Adapted for the cafe and convenience of merchant*
in general particularly for these who are ex
tenSvely concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the course of the whole year,
fsr each month feparativdy. And thereby pre- 1
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant en
the mode now in us«, of fele&ing the bills due in
•ach month from the promifcuuus entries of ftveral
months.
A table /hewing the number of days frew any day
of any month, ta the fame day ia any other ffiontb.
Philadslphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP'
BELL & Co.
January 2.
Whs is well acquainted with the River
And will give Dira<SHon» for filling into the fame,
that can be depended on, ftnll be gtneroufly -reward?
Ed for his information, provided he will leave the
dire&iaiis with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia,
or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport:
Bank of North-Amefica,
January 2, 1797.
At a meeting of the Dire&ors this day, a Dividend ot
Six per Cent. was declared for the last half year, which
will be paifl to the Stockholders or their raprefentativea*
at any timp after the 10th in&ant.
Hy order of the Board.
Cresses
Onion
Radifti
Turnip
kinds
dti6th
Peas
Savoy
Parfhir
CEORGE DAVIS announces to his profefiional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a fmgle volume t© an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, whieh for fevejal years pail have iu so diltinguilhed a
manner recommended themfto notice.
Melon
Lettuce
Printed Catalogues combining the most extensive collec
tion cf the latest Englifti and Irilh Editions ever imponcd
into this country, ate publi(hed. and will be delivered giatia
oq application.
Orders addressed to G. D. in writing from any diftar.ee
(hall Ke pun&ually attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sa)e.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Mai ket Street Wharf.
ov-3. V tuicfyo
AT a Meeting of the Stockholders of the Bank ©£
Pennsylvania, at the Bank, December 29th, 1796,
k was unammoufly refolv«d, That, from ths inforraau
tion this day given by the Board of Dire&ors, and the Do
cuments exhibited, the Stockholders do fully approve the
condu& of the .Dire&ors • and that the thanks of thn
meeting be returned to the said Dire&ors for their adtivi
ty, zeal, apd fueceftful exercion6 in the discharge of their
dntie* in relation to the abuses lately pra&il'ed upon thl»
Institution. ,
Resolved, That the foregoing Resolution be in
the Ncwfpapcr* of tJfei.n city
EDWARD SHIPPEN, Chairman.
BFNJAMIN CHEW, Jr. Secretary.
Dec. 30. $
FOR .railing fix thousand fix hundred and fixty-fevea
dollars arid fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
1 Prize of jooe dollars is dollars 5000
x rtoA 1000
f SOO 500
5 400 ioco
10 10* aooo
99 50 4950
900 si jOOO
Isoo to 10,000
5 Lad drawn numbers ®f nh dollars each, 5000
»33» Priacs.
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tlckett at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for establish
ing Utfeful Manufactures, the fupetinsendants of the Pat«
erfon Lottery hare requested the Manager* to oflfer the
foregoing Seheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
ia tlje former Lottery, or exchange tie tickets for ticket*
n this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifliecj. A lift of the Blanks and Prises
may be seen at the office oi William Blackburn, No. 64
Couth Second ft#eet, who will give information where tickfc
ets may b< procured.
Dated this i?th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, £ Managers-
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
t Pri»e of 5060 -■ * 5000
I iboo » - » too*
1 joe * * ■ » 500
f ■ tod . * ' * 1000
»e ico » » * 4 tooo
90 JO * 450P
I4j is . - * * * 41*|
The Ave last drawn tjek«t«» 1000 «wfc« joo*
Being all the valuable prizes, befidet a foil propor
tion oi the io dollars.
As the Lottery is coafiderably more thin o»e third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increifed, and it is worth the notice of those!
who hold tickets in thaold scheme, that they can ex
change their t*»kets for those m the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance coniidering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold* the drawing in
future will be oftcner, and tfie Lottery soon finUhedw
November is. mws
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
To which ii prefixed,
Any Person
MISSIS I P P I,
JOHN NIXON, Prefidcnt.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
Bank ol" Pennsylvania.
Paterlon Lottery.
[Volume XI.
tawtf
44.4J0New Theatre.
On FRIDAY EVENING, January 6,
Will be presented, iTRAGEDY called
1 he Fair Penitent.
Seiolto,
Altamcnt,
Horatio,
Lothario,
Hiiflantf,
Califta,
j.Avinia,
Lucilla,
To which will be added (for the second time)
A Comic Opera, in two afls (as performed at Covent-
Garden Theatre upwards of 15c nights) called
The Lock and Kf.y.
Brummagem,
Cheerly,
Ca: tain Vane,
Raif h,
f'l >rella,
Fanny,
Selina,
Doily ,
, £5* Box, One Dollar twenty-fire cent». Pit one DoH*r.
And CJallery, half a dollar.
OS" Tickets to be h d at H. & P. Rice's iSook-ftore,
To. 50 High-ltreet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
R. Donrs of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
fain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
'-'laces for the Boxrs to De taken at the Office in the
'ro ir of (h . theatre, from 10 till a o'clock, and from
Jc . II 4 on the days of performance
LaHies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
ferranti to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to ordir them, as soon a» the cmnp ny are seated, to
withdraw, as they cann»t on any account be permit
ted to remain.
v VIVAT R ESPUBLICA !
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical 9 ajid Entertaining,
Mr. FEN NELL
Refpi r.fylly informs the Public, that
"OnTHURSDAY EVENIIsG, January 5, at 7 o'clock.
Will be delivered,
(first »art)
PREFATORY OBSERVATION'S,
( Continued)
Including fele&ions from Dr. Young—on
Man,
LIIK.
■PxOCKJSTINjtriON.
(second part)
Edwin & Angelina,
Elegy written in a Country Church-yard,
(thihd taut)
Alexander's Feast,
With Occajional RimarkJ on the Authorj.
Subscriptions arc received by Mr.Zachariah Poulfon,
jun. at the Library, where the Ladies anel Gentlemen
who may be inclined to honor the undertaking with
hriripjironage, are refpeiflfully requested to fend
their names and receive their tickets.
Occasional a>hniflion tickets to be hart of Mr. Poulfon,
Jan. at the Library ; at mr. M'Elwee's looking-glass-store,
JNo. 70, South Fourth-street; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
seller, Market-street—Hals a dollar each.
<£* NOTICE.
*"1 "HE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
J- North-Weftem Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public pipers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
♦o day, 'till the tenth of February next,, if not sooner
fold.
January 4
Bank of th» United States,
January 2nd, 1797.
The Diredors havo this May declared a Dividend of
Sixteen Dollars on each Share for the last fix months,
which will be paid to the Stockholders after the i»th
instant. G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
Bank of Pennsylvania,
At a meeting of theDireflors th : > day, a di*id»nd of
fixtcen dollars on cach (hare wa« declared for the lift
■6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliier.
dtf.
J* n - 3-
A Quantity of Brandv,
FIRST & id prnof,
Gin, of 4th profcf, in pipei
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhd«
Old Horn, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and hajf-pinw
Window Glass, in boxes, "of different ii;;s
Hazlenuts, in sack«
Whiting
■Copperas f
White Lead f
fc Spanish Brown J
For Sale by
January 4
To the Public.
THE Exhibition of Elegant Prints of the Revolu
tion of France, and Generals Buonaparte, Piche
grue, &c opened fom'e dayipaft, at the feuth-eaft cor
ner of High and 1 hird streets, formerly- Co»k's house,
having given general latisfaflion to all those who have
seen it, the Proprietor takes the liberty of informing
the Public that he has added to the fame, a large and
beautiful Plan of Paris (the newtftf xtant) containing
a complete view of the city itfelf, its fuburbi enviroiis,
villages, houses, heights, woods, vineyards, lands,
meadows, &c geometrically drawn, by Mr. Uouflel,
chief of the Engineers ; real locks.ef the hair of the
late Queen |of Franee, Madame, and the Dauphin,
may also be seen. In cnnfequence of the Heufe being
fold, he will have but a (hort time to exhibit.the Prints,
and, by the advice of his friends, he means to open e
very day in the week, from 9 'till dusk.
.IdnmTion, one quarter of a Dollar.
January 3
Mr. iVarren
Mr. Foxi
Mr. Cooper
Mr. Moreten
Mr. Darley, jun.
Mrs. Merry
Mrs. Francis
Mrs. Harvey
Mr. Francis
Mr. Darley, jun.
Mr. Fox
Mr. Har<wo*d
Mrs. IVarrell
Mrs. OlJmixon
Mrs. Harvey
Miss Milhourne
GolSfmitl»
Gray
Dry den
January 4, 1797.
in lihd*
PETER BLIGHT.
I
*3t
COMMUNICATIONS.
Were the degeneracy that marks many Jacobins
of this country to extend to the great mafj of the
people they would be unfitted to maintain the inde
pendencc of the United States If, misled by
the arts of French agents, or enthufiaftieally se
duced by the visions of foreign theory, they attach
themselves to the French nation, the Americans
would as thoroughly violate their own sovereignty
as if they yielded by explicit contraa, their inde
pendence and their liberties, to the crown and do
mination of Great-Britain—To him who is an A
meriean, agreeably to out late glorious revolution,
the evil is equal whether he beholds the people of
America vanquilhed by the arms of England or
seduced into a furrenderof their rights by the sy
cophancy of the French. In either humble fixa
tion he fees the independence of this country de
stroyed ! In the firll cafe, however to be refitted,
this confutation might be left ; terms might be
made definitively with the victor ; eonfeioufnefs «f
having done our bed would soothe us in the retrof
peft ; but, in the last, i total prostration of great
national principles would ensure The duration of a
dependance beyond the hope of restoration; and
the mereTetnblar.ee of government being left, the
actual encroachment and domination would be
mole permanent, because t diflingui(he9 by empty
founds ! Great-Britain was defeated by the glorious
spirit of the revolution ; France remains to be de
feated, not in the field, but in the enlightened
minds of our coitntrymtn, who will perceive in a
thousand indances of her machinations, in the arts
(he uses, in ber menaces and her adulation, that
hollow adulation by which (be wiflies to divide the
PEOPt* from their own government, a deep and
long continued plan of making this free country
dependant upon her will, and the tool of her aggran
r.izrment J Arms vanquilhed the firft ; refle&ion,
firmnefs and sovereign contempt mud and will df
feat the arts ef the last.
. Thc mo( * lively indignation has manifefted itfclf
in all refpeitalile companies at the language which
certain letters (puMilhed) Hate as being held by
a certain commodore. Humiliation fufficient it
»a« that a French diplomatic agent (hould dare to
.hold the language he »did to our Preiidont—but
that a citizen of the United States (hould thus
hold cheap the dignity of his country has some
thing Mournfully unnatural in it.
A Parallel to Captain Jtstup's Cafe.
The Brig William, Capt. Benjamin Henderfon,
belonged to Mr. William Gray, jun. of Salem,
Massachusetts. Oil a voyage frem Point-a-Petre,
she was Raptured by the privateer Prince William
Henry, and carried to St. Kitts, where some French
property she had on board was taken out and con
demned. After her departure from St. Kitts, (he
was met with on the 19th Odobcr, 1793, by l ' )e
French privateer Citizen Ge»et, which l)ad left
Philadelphia ten days before. The privateer obli
ged capt. Henderfon to hoist out his boat and bring
his papers on board, which being done, he was ask
ed te whom the French sugar on board belonged ?
He replied, to William Gray of Salem—upon
which the person who aflted the question, and who.
he underftnod was the French captain, cajled him
a damned tynr and walking forward spoke to the
men: five sailors immediately advanced, tookcapt.
Henderfon by the collar, dragged him to one <*f
the guns, where they held him, cut his trowfers
behind, and beat him with 20 lashes on the bare
flefh, until he was black and blue. On expoflulat
ing 011 this cxtraerdinaiy treatment of a neutral
veflel, he Was told, that the /Imerieant tvere a parcel
of damned rafcah, and did not deserve better treat
ment. On captain Henderfon being dismissed, fix
French sailors were fem with him on board the
William : these immediately fell to ransacking the
vessel, and plundered from her in cash arid goods to
the amount of atout 3501. Before (he was dismis
sed, however, four Bermudian sailors, who were
prisoners on board the privateer, were put on board
her, altho' -capt. Henderfon 'urged, that he had
scarcely previfians enough for his own crew : the
consequence was, that captain Henderfon was uh
,der the necefllty of retrenching the allowance of all
the (hip s company, himfelf included.
The foregoing is presented to the public as an
accurate (latement : the occurrence is knows to
mjny : and Mr Gray is now in poifeflion of au
thentic proofs te support it.
We fee advert, Ted an " Euhginm Intendedtoper
pet-jatc the memory of David Rittmhufe,' which
fuggeflt a quere, whether the Eulo K ift will, on the
fccre of perpetuity, bwe most to David or David
to him. It wat very kind in our Philefophieai so
ciety to give puor David this lift.
Mr. Fenno,
I have persuaded a friead of mine to reduce to
writing, a summary of his observations, in a large
company, (where they were well approved) on the
present posture of affairs in regard to France,
While 1 request you to publilh them, 1 cannot bui
hope they will be copied into all the papers of the
United States..
Vour's,
IT is good sport to fee how .the democrats are
puzzled to get along with the affair of citizen
Adet. He affects to thrtaten the government, and
loax th.e people. But a downright, plain-dealing,
let of country folks do net understand this distinc
tion. Vl» hen men thinic they are threatened, if
they are cowards, they sneak off j or if they can
not da so, they bow very law, beg pardon very
humbly of Monsieur, for the affront he hai oJtreJ
ih.m. Here is one chcek, citizen— ftn'ke that firfl,
ini then w« will turn the other. This is the fpirit
td language of the Aurora ; and no doubt if the
patriotic I'ell s Point regiment, that drew up to
receive citizen Barney at Baltimore, (hould pre
sent to him an address, they will fill it with the
cfcoicell phrases, about the honour and inJ,£tndtnci \
of the country.
A CUSTOMER.
But, alai! theft* palrv.ts "ft scarce. Th« pco
pie generally feci another fort of spirit, and the
Aurora tries to intimidate that spirit by the system
of terror. The terrible republic speaks through
theAuroia, (to use the bombalt of in generals)
thunder \ The country is warned of its danger,
while Adet's manifcfto assures us there is no dan
gar at all—begs us to think so ; that his nation
loves our people—has no thoughts of war ; ami
cries as if his gentle heart would break. Yet,
while these crocodile tears are still trickling down
the faees of those iron hearted democrats, who cri
ed, Vive? la Guillotine ! Vive la Mort ! and trod
on bleeding victims, without any tears at all, they
tell u> in the fame breath—-war, war with France,
This double plot spoils the Comedy. It is such a
jumble of love and muider, that they ar,e sure to
be hifled off the fta'ge : and so they will be; fer
the farce railed the Blunderbuss, or Notei, is al
ready dam.ied. '
War is in nobody's noddle. France will not
wago war with us (and there Adet is to be believ
ed) uiilefs wc Itiuggle harder than we have yet
done, to prevent her from thrusting her fraternifing
fingers any more into the pockets of our merchants
Six or eight millions are already jjently taken by
the French privateerfmcn, no doubt with tears in
their eyes, Yet, no war. If France flieuld take
as much more, (he and h»r minirter might shed
tears ; but why shed our blood, if we it in
future as well as *ell as we have done ? It is a catife
of war, there is no question, to seize our (hips
contrary te treaty ; and that (he has done all along,
before the British treaty, as well as since : for
that treaty has only furnifhed a new pretext for an
old piecc of rapine and perfidy.
In one word of very plain English, for the times
dfmand it—we may be sure ef peacc with France,
if we will let her plunder our vi-fTcls. She has given
us cause of war ; but if we wave the affront and
injury, and keep peace, will (he go o war with us
beetle we allow her (as flic fays we do the Bri
tish) to capture our vefTels ?
Our democrats, not content with this, go on to
found alarms; but they dm uld remember the fort
of folks they have to deal with. It is too late to
address the fears, er to whine ioft love nonsense to
Americans, after having oncc roused them by
threats and insults.
France, lay the democrats, is more terrible than
ever, since her conquefis in Germany and Italy
Terror, the reader will observe, is in every Sen
tence of the Aurora. Now, France is less terrible
since those cenqnelh ; for (he has exasperated the
conquered people : her anarchical principles are
now 00' more a currency any where out as France,
(and perhaps n»t within it) than the afiignats. If
reveries (hould attend Buonaparte, likethufe which
have befallen the two other armies, fury wwuld suc
ceed to the despair of the Italians. They would
rife as the peasants have done in Germany. Can
they march • again into G.r marty, and fnpply an.
other year's war by plundering an enemy's coun
try a second time ? If they (hould, they would
get less : the after crop of conquclt is scanty. Be
tides, the people become all soldiers, and it is al
mofl inconceivable that a second irruption into
Germany (hould be fuccefsful. The war then is to
be nourished by other means than &h enemy's coun
try can furnifh. What are they ?
Paper money (lops. A French funding system
to borrow, perhaps. Would our democrats recom
me»d that ! Will taxes answer to fach an amount
as the next campaign will call for ? The revenue of.
the old Roman empire for ten years would not Sup
ply it. Will the French renew the system of ter
ror, and coin all private property into cafli for the
purchafeof gunpowder, soldiers' hats and (hoes ?
Thus, if France holds out terrors to us, fhchas
enough of them at home. Her prol'pe<ft is now
vkorc terrible than her threats. It is not pretended
that (he will be or can be conquered ; but (he has
difficulties to overcome, to provide for another
campaign, which it is believed will Hop her eon
quelis, though they will not endanger htr indepen
dence. She hat het terrible hafids full ; am j f 0
have England and Amlrta : but they will fight
hard rather than lufe their independence, which
France avows her design utterly to subvert. Delcn.
da eft Carthago, is forever her menace to England:
No one will be surprised if the Democrats deny
all this, and'blulter as usual about the million and
an half French conquerors—Answer,, So much the
harder will it be to pay them, if there are so many,
and elpecially, if the conquerors should be driven
back into France tc be fed and paid at home, in
stead of being noufijhed, as the Diieftory term it,
by vißtry.
Should the Democrats rejoin, the flavet of kings
will yej flock to the liberty cap of France and join
htr, like true patriate, against their owe country
it is replied. This fort of patriotism so praised in
the Aurora, and so relied or by the sons of terror
btre, is now quite gene from Gtimany and Italy
It is whether any of it it left in the
world, except some of the worit sf its dregg at
Fell's point, Baltimore.
For, whatever the origin or real motives of the
war might have beeir, Fiance invodet now, and her
enemies defend themfel> e». That is clear, and a
war of felt-defence will force her enemies and with
the hearty concurrence too of their fubjeds, to
malie every possible effort. Let {he Democrats
prattle about (he French compelling viSory to return
to their Jandard, this campaign has eflcntially
changed the position of the powersr at war, as well
as the ptinciplet of the contest, and the fenfy of
mankind uponthem. Eventt may difyppointtheraoll
reafonablc conjectures. This is admitted, and it
is possible, though not probable, the French may
despoil new region* in another campaign. But as
the Direflery know that if new regioiy exist, rich
in fptil, it wilt be difficult to get at them, they
matt aft towards us on pruoabilitiet. With so ma
ny emharrafTments, and discouragements too, the
argument is a fair one, and we rely on it accord
ingly, they will not nkke a new enemy, especially
one that has been Ung plundered without becom
ing their /enemy, and so there it no need to make
the enemy to afford the plunder, at a plundered
friend is fafer and just at good.
But at fame hypochondriac perfont may Aill |i e
awake anigfettwith their fjars of Freach anger.
it Is proper after having fp?n th» beclonded prof
peft of France to look at the effect an Amtricaa
war wotilc have to mend it.
It is, 1 trust, needless to watn the reader againfl
the notion that the friends of our insulted govern
ment wish or apprehend a war with Frame. They
do not. They aft differently frum the Democrati
in this refpeft. A kind «f bullying war with Bri.
tain and no treaty was all theii cry in 1794. The
Federalists said then, and fay now, avoid war but.
negociate, prepare and afl with spirit. The want
of spirit in the Democratic (file was at manifeft
then as now. For then they refufed all really
ft rot g measures—no m»rt revenue nor force, no
treaty. In one word, a war upon Sritifh debt*
was alt they alked for. Having mentioned this t»
prevent Democratic mifreprefen ation, the reader
will just proceed to turn his thungbts to the true
and experienced cons qacnefs to Francc of our
being engaged in a war with her.
In former wars, her tftands were in extremity of
want in consequence ol our supplies being flopped
and thsfe from France in a" great meafu>e also.
Then, howevei, we weie weak compared wilhour
present means. Then France was ttrong at fta com
pared with her present naval weakness, which is
such as never was known hefore. Her iflandi
woald be mote cxpofed than ever. And though
France has few, or no merchant (hips, the immense
exports of her colenies would be a prty that couid
not escape. At present, our veflels cover those
exports in a great degree from capture by the Bri.
tifh. If Spain should also Uecome our enemy,
American privateeis would cover the seas. We
have no navy, but we rank very high among the
fca-faiing nations of the eaith ; nor is it mere spe
culation that we (houid be immediately formidable
as a uaval power. In the wat-with Britain,
trade was so strongly prote&ed hy hei immenie na
vy, near two thousand fail of prizes were taken, by
the armed vefTels of one of the eaflern states. Brief
ly but soberly wc fay, France could not maintain
her colonies againfi all her enemies, if we ihould
be forced to be of the number. '
No man' of sense and experience will deny this
position after due refledlion upon the facts and piin
ciples that it rests upon.
Why then, perhaps the Democrat will retort,
were ybu government so unvyilling ta fight
England ? A force fu powerful its you reprefenc
out privateers would huml<le England. Answer,
privateers afford us the power to annoy others,
but they coyld not prevent our trade, now so im
mense from being annoyed and perhaps tuined.—
It is a power to hurt others, not to enrich ourfelvei
*39 all privateering experience has d,
The fuperierity. ot Britain enables her to defend
her tiacie, and to crush that of the United States
beyond any other enemy we might quarrel with,
tho' Ihe would fufFer grievously. Moieover peace
•with all nations is the doftrtne of the federal friends
of the government When uccafions ol war arise,
let us remove them by treaty if we canr In this
they have been uniform and confident; and fucccfs
has orown'd their willies ; the republic ba» appro
ved them, and enjoy 3 the prosperity which has re
sulted from tliem.
The argument might be parfnrd much farther
to shew that France is not in a situation to make
a war with usdefirable to herfelf. And if success
should again attend her armies and lead her rashly
to begin it, the means of'the tjised States aie
ample anj] sure to bring her to repentance. Our
trade mjght fuffer, but (he would run the risk of
losing her foreign pofleffions forevet.
Thefc obfervatiqns, if admitted to be just, are
certainly seasonable, as the Aurora daily renews
the attempt to deceive, and to degrade our coun
try by filly alarms and cowardly Mia-fUtementt
its exposed and helpless situation. .
Mr. Fenno,
As the queflion concerning a land tax or a. poll tax
is becoming the futij -il of general conversation, per
haps the inclosed obiu'vations may not he thought im
proper by some of your readers. They are extraded
from a letter that was publilhedini7B9,in a neighbour*
lag Hate.
Of TAXES.
In all governments the relief of the poor ihould be
one ot the chief qbjeAs of legislative attention.
Every citizen demands justice and\ prote&ion From
government, these fliould not, they cannot be reftifed,
but the poor man has other claims ; bis wants and
his fitfterings mult be in proportion to his poverty;
humanity requires that his fufiferings. be relieved or
prevented. 1 hough the rich are not to. be defrauded
tor the lake of the poor, the laws iu every state Ihould
be so framed as to encourage and allift the poor ia
their usual employments. Thenecefiary burdens of
civil go en.ment (hould be so faihioned as to press en
their (houlders, in the not convenient and easy man
ner. The general payment of taxes is necefiary to the
lupport of government, bat the payment of taxes in
many cases is difficult, in ftmt cases iriapradlicable by
the poor man, without the file of his property by
a public officer. Every misfortune of this kind Ihould
be prevented if possible. Perhaps tke molt efTcdual
mode of preventing the poor mil from being diftreJT
ed in the payment of taxes, is by substituting an excifc
1 j j property. In France,
England and Holland,, the expenees of governmtat
are chjefty raised by an excifc. It has been frequent
y laid that when a luhjedV orcitizen is obliged te.coit*
raw T r,»i ei j ai ff ' um tor th ' utc of g° Ter «'"fnt there
can be little difference by what name the tax it called,
or ow it is laid. Nopoftioa canbe more fallackraf,
A-land tax or a poll tax are inevitable and pofitWe
they cannot be averted j the iaduftrious can,
not elude them ; the unfortunate cannot eftape theßU
very citizen muft"<lte out his purse and pay the *-
m«qnt, or his little furniture mutt be fold. The ex.
ci e is tax ; when it is laid ok foreign Ifpoffo
"°rV< ° S ed to pay a»iy part of it; when it it
laid on luxuries no prudent man will pay much of it.
j,? , *PP' ns the most industrious citizens are
fn'.h' f \ Cckucft, or bad crops, in alt
„ lht e *« f e operates as a relief to the unfortu
nate, for on fich years they buy ao luxuries. Let
us iuppofe a poll tax or a land tax of five dollars only:
may it not happen that at the season for colledKng tax
es, tainyofour fellow citizens.will be found without
five dollars in their pofleffioH > It would ie firings
it the pootett m»n, who is hot a cripple, could not eari*
f, r et y« r > bef,di » what is necef-
Urytorthefuppcn of his family, byt crcdnomy and
rorefight are not cl.ara&eriftics of the poor ; on-the
eontrarjr, f ew men in the United States are poor, ua>
* 'liey are remarkably deficient in ikofe qualities,
TRUE CLUEWhy then flioulc our laws fnppofe the citizen to
have the quality that he certainly has not ? Why shall
they make it neceflary for him to be treasuring mo
ney for months, who never cared for to morrow ?
Ihe mod indolent or the most carelcfs citizen cannot
possibly be incommoded by an excise ; If he {hould
have no money during the year nor any thing to fell,
he will buy nothing, and consequently will no tax.
When he is able to buy foreign commodities W will
pay his tax. The excise is fuppofqd chiefly to fall up
on articles of foreign make, and prudence will diredt
that articles which are lead neceflary and such as may
/©oneft come to perfection in our own country, ftnll
bear the greatest (hare in the excise. The natural ope
ration of such taxes is favourable to the poor. No
man pays the tax who is not able and willing to buy
luxuries or foreign articles, therefore it is volun ary.
The man who is diligent has less occasion for such ar
ticles, therefore it is a spur to mduftry. In a word,
all taxes on property are bur ens on the good citizen ;
they difcourageinduftry. All raxes on consumption are
taxes on difiipation and luxury; they puniih ldlenefs,
and promote industry. Can we hefitatein making our
choice ?
The revenue of the Roman empire, in its prosper
ous days, arose chiefly from an an excise and customs.
That jealous and wife nation did not readily submit to
a land tax. There was a wafteful trade carried on be
tween Rome and the East Indies by way of the red
sea. By that trade much fijver, near four millions of
dollars, was annually exported from the Empire, and
we have reason to conclude from the allegations of
Pliny, chat East India goods were'forced to contribute,
by an excise more than twenty millions per annum to
the revenue. A land tax and poll tax were in early
use through the Roman provinces, but do not ap
pear to have been generally imposed on the Roman
people before the reign of Galenius,the fucccftbr of Di
oclefian. I'rora that period dire<ft taxes became uni
▼erfal. What was the condition of the Roman peo
ple under an administration of customs,—excise and
other indire<sVtaxes, when compared with the times in
which the land tax and poll tax became'general ? It
was an age of gold, compared to that of iron Hu
manity is Ihocked by the tales of woe that are told con
cerning rhe poor of that age. Parents are said have
fold tfeeir children and to have fold themselves into
slavery, in order to Ihun the burden of taxes.
I have laid that an excise is more favourable to the
poer than a laniLor poll tax ; I will venture an addition
al sentiment. There never was any government in
which aaexcife could be offo much life as in the Uni
ted States of America, fn all other countries taxes of
every fort are j, species of grievance. [11 the United
States an cxcife on foreign joods would not be a griev
ance ; like wholesome flood if wouid give us strength.
It woald help to close that wafteful drain by which o::r
honour and our wealth are consumed. What tho'
we did not owre a florin to any foreign nation ; though
we had no domestic debt and though the txpences qf
government could be supported for many years without
taxes, (till it may be quelfioned. whether ail excise on
foreign articles wouM not be prudent. It is the bell
expedient bv which we ean promote domestic manu
factures and the condition in which we now live—our
general dependence ob foreign countries for arms and
tloathing is. dilhonourable, —it is dangerous.
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESSfWATITE3.
Thirfday, December 29.
The house resolved itfelf into a committee of the
whole, Mr. Muhleaberg in the cbait, on the report
•f the committee of commerce and manufa&HieS',
on the subject of kidnapping negroes and mulat
toei.
This report was greun !ed on an application from
the Hate of Delaware, for some provilioii tu pic-
Tent the carrying off from that (late free negroes
and mulattoes, by matters of veflels to other Hates.
The report to cure this evil, provides that every
matter of a reffel Should have certificates with such
negroes.and muiattoes of thciV being free. No ef
fe&uai regulation, it was dated, could be made »n
this fuhjett by the individua! tlatcs, as their jtirif.
diiftion did not extend beyond their territorial li
mits. Some members contended, thai the laws of
the individual Hates were fufficient to provid.- a
gainst the e*il. The report was oppiifed as iicom
plete, and the fubjeft was fpokc-i of as of too de
licate a nature to engage the attention of thelioufe,
88 it bore an affinity to thefubjeflof emancipation.
To this latter idea it waV Well aniwered, thattht
qaeftioo was by no means about emancipating flares,
but whether prsvtfions (hould not be enacted to
prevent freemen from being made fl.ives, because
they wcte black.
The committee rose without coming to a decifi
bn, and the Teport was recommitl-ed 46 to 30,
with liberty to the committee of commerce and
manufatflures to report by Other wife.-
The house went into committee of the whole on
the report of the secretary at war, on the petition of
Hugh Lawfon White.
This petition will try the principle, whether the
(ni)itia which were called out under gen. Sevier, in
'g 3, toad again ft the Indian*, are entitled to com
pensation.
The report (lat«s, that the expedition wa» un
dertaken withsut authority frem the gcnetal go
vernment and for the avowed purpose of carrying
the war into the Cherokee country ; that the in
ftru&ions fr»m the war department forbid offenfive
eperations. That-, however, it appears that pre
vious to the expedition the inhabitants of Tenncf
/ee were much harraffed by the Indians, who had
billed at (wo Itations, one within 7 miles of the
capital, 15 persons, and that it mult reft withcon
grefs to fay whether tbe circumstances of the cafe
■warranted the expeditioa as a just and necefTary
inelfure.
i In the cotirfe of the debate it was denied, that
he expedition had been undertaken for the avowed
pnrpofe of carrying the wai into the Cherokee
country : and (tated, in addition to the circum
stances nriestioned in the repart, that 1200 Indi
ans before the expedition carried a Ration and threat
ened to attack Knoxville.
Mr. A. Jackson moved the following resolution.
" Resolved that General Sevier's expedition in
to the Cherokee country in the year 1793, was a
just and neceflary measure, and that provilion ought
to be made by law for paying the expencei there
of."
The committee rose without coming to a decifi
on and had leave to fit again.
A communication was received from the secreta
ry of the trcafwry on the fubjedt of the loan fur
ihp nfe of the cfty of ColuiubWy which was rear!
»nd ordered to bc.priuted.
Tt was resolved on account of tlie fiiortnefs of
the feflijn, 40 to 30, not to take up the Bankrupt
bill.
The following resolution was moved and ordered
to lie on the' table.
" Resolved that a Committee be appointed to en
quire if any and what alterations are in
the a& entitled " an a& refpe&iag fugitives from
justice, and peffons escaping from their mailers."
Adjourned.
Friday, December 30.
Mr. Dwight Fofler, from the committee of
claims, made report on »he petitions of Andrew
Ramfey, and Nathan Smith, recommending; a non
camp,iance with the prayer ot the petitioners. The
house concurred.
Mr. Freeman prefentcd a petition from John
! Marflon and others, graying f«>r the payment of
i-certain Sills of credit iflTut*<l by ihe United States
in March 1780, of which they are holders. Re
ferred to the com n't tee of claims.
Mr Gilbert preferred a petition from Lewis H.
Girlam, of New York, praying for a remission of
du'ies on certain wines destroyed by the late f!re.
Referred to the committee of commerce and manu-
factures,
M>. A. Jackson prefentcd a petition from
George Ciltert, one of the chiefs of the Chicka
saw Nation, cwmplarrtng- of a non-performance of
stipulations, entered into in certain Talks held with,
the. agents of the United States, in which they
were promised afiiftance in cafe they were attacked
by the red people, and praying fu payment on ac
count qf the maintenance of a Colonel and 46 men
for 60 days, who had marched to the'ir afiiftance
when attacked by the Creeks, without orders from
government Referred to-ihe committee of claims.
The house, on motion, again refolded itfelf into
a. committee of the whole on the report of'the fe
jretary of war on the' petition of Hugh L-iwfon
White, and, after corlidcrahlf difctiffion, on the
f uggt flion that farther information was necessary to
be obtained before a decifiou was come to, the
committee rof<?, was refund leave t» lit again,and
the report and papers accompanying «*, Were refer
red to a feledfc committee of five members.
Mr. Coit {aid that there had been fe*<-r->! editi
ons fr»m reve - tie officers for an increaf* of salary,
of which had neeiv jyfened t® the committers
of commerce and mjnufa&urrt, and otheri to the
committee of compenfs'ioti. In order that the
whole might-go into he fame hands, he proposed
a resolution to the following cffeift :
Resolved, that the committee of commerce and
maiuifa&tires he i -firufted and required to report
whether a'ty a-d what alterations are necefTary in
the compensations allowed by liw to revenue offi
cers, and that the . ommi'tee if c .mpenfation be
discharged from the conlideration of such memori
als as had relation to the officers of the revenue.—
Agreed.
Mr. W. Smith called for the order of the day
on the report of the committee of ways and means,
on the fuhjefl of certain bafances due from indivi
dual Hates to the United States The house went
into a tommitsee of the whole accordingly, when
a very long debate took place ; at length the com
mittee irofe, and ha'l leaye-to fit again.
Adjourned till Monday,
BOS I'ON, December 28
St.'te of the Mercury, im Friday, Saturday, See.
which fas exposed to the open a'ir, under a Por
tico the north fide of a honfe, but was shielded from
the wind' by the liable and p irt of the Portico.
Friday, at 8 morning, it ftoud at o
at 2 r. M. 7 above
at 1 1 evening 3 12 b«'ow o
Satarday, at 8 morning 7 below o
at 2 r. m 3 above o
ai IC evening, 1 below o
Sunday, at 8 morning, 9 above o '
at 2 p. m 10 ab.ive o
at 9 evening, 16 above O
Monday, at 8 morning, 8 above o
A new Penal Code is e'lablifhed in Virginia,
fimilat to that whi. .-h has lately governed is Penn
fylv nta. Murder alone is to be pun (hed witlj
d'.ath Other crimes are to be paniihed by hard
labor, confinement, See.'
REPRESENTATIVES.
Mnjfctchajeits—correft.
Hon. Thomplon J. Skinner, Samuel Lyman,
Dwijjht .Forter, Nathaniel Freeman, jun. J hi.
Read, Harrifon G. ,Oiis, Joseph B. Var'.ttm,
Samuel Sewali, Theopilm Bradbury, Peleg Ws f
wo(th, and George Thatcher, Esquires. z'j' 1"
the 2d western, 3d southern and lit eafteiH dif-,
trifts no choices have been mide. In the fecund
wellern, the whole number of votes was 1777 —
889 making a choice, the hon. William rtliepard,
had 823, Samuel Henlhaw 424, and hon, William
Lyman, 381. —In the 3d {put Item, ihe votes were
952, 477 making a choice, the hon. Elifha May
had 390, Stephen Bnllp.-k, 224, & Laban Wnea
ton 227. —In the firlt Eattetn, the voies were
1198, 6o» making a choice, the lion, lfaac Par
ker had 477, Henry Dearborn .373, and Jonathan
Bowman, Efqrs, 328 votes.
From WESTPCHNT, Dec. 12.
■' Four companies of artilleriits and engineers
have been ordered from this place by the President,
to take charge of, and put in rrpair the works in
the fea-ports.—Capt. Frye to Governor'* island,
in the'ftate «f New York, with a company ; capt;
Mitchell at Fort William, below Philadelphia ;
capt. Morris at Bahimore ; Capt. Blackburn, at
Norfolk, Virginia ; and capt. Kalliefen, at Charles
ton, S. C. On what account the arrangement
is made, we ean only coi:je£ture ; but we are all
decided -iriends to the present happy conllitution
<jf our country.
Wanted on hire,
A Ceolfcjnale or female—alfo a man servant to at
tend in ujd perform the dutie* be
longing to the dining room. None need apply who
do not underftgnd and have not been accustomed to the
xfpeflive fcrvices and who are not well recommended
for and good behavior. . , ' ,
Apply at No. zS», Mt>lberrj>-ftr«et, or to the printer.
Jaflulry J. V ftw*w
Philadelphia,
THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 1797
A gentleman from New York informs, that a Telfe!
has arrived there days from Hambvirgh.
Tuesday last Thomas Willing, Esq. wa9 unani
mously elected President of the Bank_of the United
States,
On Tuesday last the fallowing officers were ele&ed
for the Schuylkill and Sufquehaanah Canal—
Prefidenty
Robert Morris,
Managers,
John NicholCon,
Standifh Fnrde,
Jeremiah Parker,
Wm. Young, B. S.
Samuel Bio Iget,
Win. Siafom,
Wm. Smith, D. D,
Joseph Call,
John Steinmet2,
Francis Weft,
Timothy Mstlack,
Wm. Montgomery.
Treasurer, v
William Gorctt.
For the Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
President,
Robert Morris.
Managers, ,
Wm. Smith, D. D.
Joseph Ball, *
Benjamin R. Morgan,
Wm. Yuiing, B. S.
John Miller, jun.
James M'Crca.
John Nichoifon,
Standith Forde,
Jeremiah Parker,
John Steinmet*,
Samuel Bladgct,
Wm. Sanfom,
Treasurer,
William Govett,
F.xtraS of a letter from $outh Carolina.
" You will no doubt feel both pity and indigna
tion, when you are i|ifo-med that that Charles
Pinckney is ele&ed our Governor. Ab soon 33
he uai (worn into office, he began his speech by
m.ikin ■ a most indecent attack on the perfoiis who
did not vote for him (confuting of 53 of the most
respectable perions-iu the country) and like
wise upon the measures of the federal govern
ment. H» is too cunning to have liis speech
printed, as he delivered it, but his firft nbfer
vation was, he was happy to find, as was
proved hy his ele&ion, the tiitimph of republican
principles (rifum'teneatis f) He then contrasted
I the prefept (ituation of the country with its fitua
tioo when he was formerly Governor. He said,
that we were an ungratefwl and degraded people—
(one would think so from his being eledted Goner
nor) —that we had behaved most infamously to
our allies, the French ; "Who, .we itOPED, WOULD
SOON BRING US TO A SENSE OF OUR POLITICAL
errors." These last words were taken down. It
was, in (hort, a mojl abominable performance, an.l
with the exception or his creatures, was reprobat
ed by men of both parties. It is thought here,
Jelfe-i son's ele&ion to the Presidency is certain ;
;;nd owr new Governor, who lias been long feekins;
for a foreign appointment, thinks this jacobin
speech will be a charming recommendation of him
to Jefferfon's good graces : so that if he is Prili
•lent, you may judge of what you are to expert
front the French party."
NEIV THEATRE.
On Monday the Tragedy of Richard
llhl.
Mr. Warren gave great feeling the f harafter of
Henry 6th.
Mr. Fox told his tearful tale is Treflel, with a
pathos quite in chara&er. This young gen'lenian,
when he has added a little experience and ftndy
to his performance ( which has already merited great
praise) will nndaubtedlv be an ornament to the
Theatre.
Mr. Cooper's maflerly perfonification of Rich
ard, was received with that applause that generally
attends his'public exhibitions. He gave the link
ing traits ot the chara£ier with an energetic bold
ness, and fire, .that attends only the performance
of native genius, and without which art can do iit
ile. He gave great farce to the folilnquy of
" Why, now ray golden dream is out."
And indeed all of Them were malterly expressed.
Mrs. Francis was corredl and fpitited in the cha
racter ot* .Lady Anne, but was certainly deficient
h pathos awd exprrfikm. In the tent scene, she
was particularly faulty, and spoke,
" ) hink on the wrongs of wretched Anne thy wife
" E'en in the battles heat remember me.
" And edgelel's fall thy sword—despair anddie."
With the faiAe tone as (he did,
' But since you teaeh me how to flatter you
" Imagine I have said farewell already."
The address in the chat after of the Ghojl would
have (hac. it been properly exprefled ) produced
great effedt. However by what we hav» said it
niufl not be thought, that we intend to rob her of
all praise—her performance often merits it—and in
spite of the dsfi;fls we have noticed, (he certainly
is entitled t«< a (hare of otir approbation.
Mrs. L'Eftrange was but' ill calculated to tx
prefs the torrowsof the dutchcfs of York, tjie mo
notony of her voice could not convey that spirit
that Shakcfpcare intended (hould be given to her
exccration of Richard. W. L.
J3y this day's Mail.
NO.RFOLK, December 22
Tuesday lad arrived hen.- the Medufi, French
frigate as 50 guus, commanded by commodore
Barney, and the lnfurgenteof 44. guns.
BALTIMORE, January 3.
We congratulate our reader? 011 the strikingly fplemlid
appearance of our new city, the two preceeding evenings.
The lamps with which o»r street* are lighted, appear to'
be a considerable improvnaent on those we have gensraHy
tee«—the refle&ors with which they are furnifhed, cast
out great light. Although thcfe jiaKsling ornaments are
not planted lo thick as in Philadelphia, yet it mull be con
fsrffed, from th/ir evidently fuperi&r excellence, that our
ttreets are much better lighted—ft that 'iti future we JhalJ
hear of no more complaints of diityocated necks or broken
bones, on the score of darknefc. Tlie birth of a nt.w
year, a new eity, and new light, is a novelty indeed, ami
cjunot, to our city, fall to be matter of much joy.
•' Velterclay wars brought to town from One of th
farms of William Smith, Eiq. a HOG, ;which, when
cleaned, Veighed 473 U.
NEW-YORK, January 4,
ARRIVED. Days,
Schooner Pomona, Gardner Bolton 27
Sl.iop Eliza, Nicholfon St. Croix
Eagle, .Wood Richmond —
The Tiow Pegfry, of New-York, was loft on
Sandy Key, Turk'j Island.
The sloop Betsey, Lyon, arrived at N-W| London
from Anguilla—left there, brig Polly, ChceTe*
broujh, to fail in three days for Wilmington—and
f'iow Jnhn, of New York.
Pantheon,
•* '
AND RICKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE.
. Corner of Chefnut and Sixth-street»
For Equestrian and Stage Performances.
THIS EVENING, Thursday, Januarys,
Will be presented, the following f nteitainments, viz.
HORSEMANSHIP,
A Comic Bjllet Dance, called
POOR JACK ; Or, Tfee Benevolent Crew.
A DUE r, by Mr and Mrs. Chambers.
The SIEGE OF TROY,
Or, The World turn'd Upside Down,
A S n|> by Miss 'mliy.
Between the intervals of the Stage,
EQ.T E S T R I 1 M EXERCISES.
In the course of the evening, Mr. Rick'etts willgiv*
in the Sailor's defcripnon nf a Fox Hunt.
Proceeding the Panto Races with Rhl Po
nies, the whole to conclude with a. Comic Panto
mime. Doors to open at and the Performance to
commence at 1-4 after 6 o'clock.
Philadelphia, Jan. 4th, 1797.
All persons indebted to the Estate of
Joseph Paschall, deceased,
ARE rcquefted to pay their refpe&ive debts without
further delay, otherwise their accounts will be put into
the hands of an Attorney to recover—*\nd ail those who
have any demands against said Estate are deiired to bring
in their accounts for settlement, to
SAMUEL COATES, •)
CHRIS I'R. MARSH ALL, jun £ ExVt.
CHARLES MARSHALL. J eox
Public Notice,
(S HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to supply the
defcit in my Title to a lot of grourtd, situate on rhe Weft
fide of Fourth-itreet, containing in breadth 20 leet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Weft ward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippen, and Eastward by Fourth-street, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from J'ijnothy Harrington, John Lewis
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux,
—All persons concerned, required to appear before
two ofN.the justices of the said court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief Justice of the state, on
the jioth inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
answer to rhe bill of the fubferiber, filed in the oihee of
Edward Burd,efq. Prothonotary of the said court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEt , jun,
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dt3oth
Loft, or Mislaid,
At the Bjiik of the United States —Joseph Higbee'»
note, dated aijth December lift, for twelve hun ed
dollar#, payable at 60 d'ys to Nathaniel Lbwis & Son.
Wiioever may si d the fame will pteair return it to faii
Bank, or to the fuliferibei s who will allow a reward
Payment being barred, it cannot be of use to any o*
ther person.
NATHANIEL I.EWIS & SON. 1
, it-
Jan. s
Territory of the United States, N. IV. of the Ohio*
Turner }
v, > Foreign attachment.
Parker, j
Notice is hereby given,
To JOSEPH PARKER, late of Kaikafk a if. the (now)
county of Randolph, in the Territory aforefsld, Mer
cha:it, that in'purfuance of the laws of the Territory in
that cafe provided, a foreign attachment hath iffuedoutof
the county court ol common pleas of the said county.,
against the lands and tenen ents, goods, chattels and ef
fects, lights and ctedits of the said Joseph Parker, at th«
fu;t O. George Turner, Efqeire ;.and that unless the said
Joseph Parker appear by himfclf, or Attorney, to give
fpeciai bislto such suit, judgment by default will be en
tered against him, at the court to f>e held in and for the
said county, next, after the expiration of twelve months
from this date ; and the estate or estates so attached, will
be fold for the fatisfaition of all creditors, who lhall ap
pear to be julUy iutitled to a demand hereon, and lhall
apply for that purpose. Dated at Kalkafkia,- aforefaid,
thi« twenty-ninth of March, 1796.
JOHN RICE JONES, Attorney for Plaintiff.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Snath Secondjlrect.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an .A& o£
the Leg'flature of Pennfylvaaia, pa (Ted during the lalt
feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over \he River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars,
i rriie of 20 000 Dollars • 20,000
of <0 000 do. » - 10,000
of 5,000 do. • • » 15,000
of a,OOO do. • • 8,000
of *1,000 do. - 20,000
of 500 do. • • 19,500
of eoo do. • 16,000
of 100 do. - • to,ooo
of 50 do. - 15,000
of 500 do to be Daid the posses- >
for ®f thefiril drawn no. J ,
5 do# of 3,000 do. to bq paid poiTeffors /
of the five lalt drawn nos £
ifi do. ; - 141,000
1 do.
3 do.
4 do.
so do,
39 do
-80 do.
soo do.
300 do.
1 do.
do. o
9 ,4°<
10,054 Prizes
10,046 Blanks
go,opo Tickets at Jen Dollars 500,000
All Prizes ftiall kJe paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finifhod, upon the demand of a pofleflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeel to a dedu&ion of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as foonas the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be giver;.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William lVitman >
Joseph Hiefler, J dmes Diemer y T/xjmas Dundas•
Jame f May, John Otto y John Keim, Dcmiel Graejj\
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, *796.
Tickets in the, Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
above office, where the earli«fl information of the drav<
ing of the Walhington No. a, and lottery'#,
are received, ami ch«ckkook» for examination and regif
tcring are kept.
O&ober 7
300,000
; aswtfBank of the United Spates,
Dtccm'i/er 26/ i, 1796.
V HEREAS the following deferibed Certificates
f Pilblic Debt, credited ill the took, or the Treuiury,
and of Stock of the Bank of the United States, were
loft with the brig Peggy, John Hyer, nialter, on her
pjfijge to London—Therefore notice is hereby given,
that application will be made for others of the fame
defcriptio* agreeably to the rules established at the.
Treasury and Bank of the United States refpedlively.
CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC DEBT.
ftate&No. in wh«fe favor issued. Dolls. Gts. 1
Mai. 4, : 79 6.
a' 70 ' ( Walter Boyd, los io«oo each def. aflu.
a',^ t0 ( ditto 6 S oco d °-
1177 ditto t 5421 53 do.
Feb. 16.
14036 Fermin de Taftet, t 3300 6perct. dom.
Mai. 4.
J 4076 Francois Gde Tournes, 1 400,1 do;
14077 ditto I 855 47 do.
3528 Diegs Dittmer, 1 674 44 do.affu.
3339 ditto 1 1160 15 do.
Feb. 16.
, 4°S4 ditto t 3199 46 do. dom.
Mar. 4.
14078 Jofcph Lucas t, 3000 do.
3527 ditto 1 icoo do.aflii.
Feb, 16.
14035 Pares & H.ygate, 1 4632 38 do. dom.
Si 1 7 d ' tto 1 1367 4« do affu.
2618 ditto' * 1 3000 3 per ct. do.
Mar. 4.
J 0834 &( F. C, Pourrat, veuve ) , , .
10835 ( leCoulteulx, ) e « 000 «<"* do.dom.
10836 ditto 1 5591 10 do f
26^? t0 j tto 5 00 ° do.
2642 ditto x 2006 38 do.
Feb. r&
9273 Elizabeth Rutt, 1 14CCO def. dom.
2160 Edward Steers, 4 365567 do. affu.
9274 ditto 1 440 70 do. dom*
Mar. 4.
Hannah Shelly l 2562 23 do. do.
Sr°) sirßenj - Th ° m p fon >3
2167 Rev. G. K. Whatley, i 1000 def. affu<
*168 ditto 1 1640 do. do.
CERTIFICATES OF BANK STOCK.
D»tes& Wo. In whale favor iffucd.
Jan. 1. 1796.
Atkinfoii, gof : Ihare.
1946 Thomas Andros, 3 (hares.
411 a ditto t (hates.
3871
5° 45 i
5046
' 7123 }■ William Barnard, 7 1 (hare.
19M9 I
to I
19261 J
j Alexander Blair, * 4 shares.
*95 & j * 10 (hares
4851 ditto , 4 (hares.
'3565 & | RCT ' D "' d B ° gUe ' * ' lh"e
---609 Martin de Havilland t 5 fharei,
166b ditto 1 4 (hares.
5962 j ■ianiuel Etheridge, * 3 fcares
-4967 ditto ' * (hares.
to 100 Jolhua GrigbV) jun. & 5 Shares.
| iVfts Sarah Harriij, * 1 (hare.
>■»< (teairi' ■
I I '' ° ' 3 (hire,,
ditto t 5 fharei.
54 Nathaniel Le Coeq, t 5 fliarei,
351& 2221 Wm Pt ter LeCocq, 2 5 fharei,
»439 Jo'cp* l Lucas, I $ (hares.
\ Thomas Miilfet, a i (hare.
J 35J a )
*957 ) Thcm " R,ike, > 4 5 (hares.
3293 ditto t ] 1 (hares.
'ggg j William Raikes, i 5 (haras,
»gßj ditto 1 7 (hares.
392 ditto 1 3 ftiares.
4«7 Rev.Cha, Richards, * * (harts.
5 ° 20 9 »- ) ditto a 1 (hart,
JO2IO )
<57 1 4 Charles Steers, » I snare. 1
8950 ditto I 10 foarei.
3084 ditto i 2 fliarei.
)J in, " StWM . » l each. ,
J3g George Watfoß, t 5 (haiei.
law6w G. SIMPSON, Calhier.,
Insurance Company of Ncrrth-America.
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are deltrcd
to take notice that the second Tucfday in January, (being
the 10th day of the month) is the day fixed by charter for
the eleAion of twenty-five Directors for the enfuiogysar.
The will be held at their office, and commence
atjn o'clock, A. M.
Th«fmbj«A if the hye-laws of the Corporation will be
fuhmitted to their consideration at this meeting.
KBENF.ZER HAZARD ..Sec'ry
Dec. tl. tthioj
Wm. "Holdernesse, No. 76,
H l&H-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A IVtH Seleded A s sort Mt n r .of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdaftiery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail," «n the very
lowfft terms ;
Amangjl which are
Some elegant 4*4 and 7-8 Chintus and Cottons new
patterns
Ditto Fnrniture ditt»
Ditto Dimity -
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver »
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Manttms of the firft quality
Sitk and Cotton Hoftery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, afTorted
lrlfti Linens, very fins, a»d 7'able Linens
Marseilles asid Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. &c.
OtSober a 6. d
Clock>j and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, MaRKET-STREET, P HILADEIPHtJI,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a large adortment of WARRANTED
WATCHE S t confuting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with seconds, of superior
workmanlhip and elegance 1 also capp'd and jewel'd
aad plain Gold Watches ; capp'd &jewell'd, capp'd,
eont'f, day of the mosith, and plain Silver Watches ;
e'ghc 'Hy & chamber Clocks; elegant Frcnch Clocks
ithmarble frames ; eight day and thirty ho»r, brass
*r«i< &c -
Dnttnb** 1796. djm
Caution.
WHEREAS very hrge and heavy debts ire juftty
due and owing from mefirj. Blair M'Clehacbah and
Patiick Moore, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Ultnachan ar.cl P.
Moore, and from Blair M'Clenacban in his ftfparate
capacity ; to which, by the laws'of the land, all the
joint ai well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it is clearly and fatisfaftorily ascertained, thai mr.
Blair M'Cltnachan, of the said firm, has conveyed
away to mr. John U. HuJlon, his son-in-law, to his
daughter, miss NFClcnachan, and to his son. George
M'Clenachatt, several large and valuable real estates,
as well as considerable personal property, in the ,city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the count* of New-Castle on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of thtir just debts. —
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons wbamlb
ever, againlt the purchase from the laid grantees, or
either ef jtltcm, of any portion of the said real or per
foiial property, as the moll vigorous measures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
thejutt demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thotnaj Fitxflmons, "J
Philip Nicklta, I
I/aae Wharton, > Committee.
William M'Murtrie, 1
Samuel W. Pijher, J
Philadelphia, Beeernber 17th, 1796. 2eth.s
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all perfont againlt purchafiug from the
granteesof Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and petfonal estates lie conveyed away to
his fon-in law and to hie eliildren was the result of
a deliberation had upon the fubjeft by a general and
ntimer'oas meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clenn
chan individually. It was no more than an execu-_
tion of that trust confidevd in the fufrfcribers by
those creditors: a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitte'l.
The very ftatcment of the fait therefore mult dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or viodidtive.'' It originated in a deGre to l'ecure
the property of the debtor as a fund fer the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fanftioned by the
advice of council as a measure to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advertisement haj been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he ovtti that iajury
to his own unjuftitiable conduit, net to the sub
scribers who have merely publifhad the truth in
terms as mild as the fait would admit, and who
mean to invefligate in a high court of justice the
validity of thole purchases of M'Cle
nachnn to confidently speaks.
The subscribers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
eantion against purohafjng of those graatees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it ts a
purchase from any other persons (if such there be)
to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philad. Dee. ai, 1796.
IP" Those printers who have been reqaeiled to
publish the firft Caution, ate desired to publifli this
also- '
For Sale,
By the Subftribers—ln PfNN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
YVILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Pennsylvania Population Company.
THE Stockholder! are hereby notified,that an ele&ion
for Officers for the ensuing year, will be held at the Com
pany's Office. No. 53, North Fourth-street, on Wednes
day the nth January nest, at 11 o'clock.
By Order of the Board'
SOL. MAR f \CHE, Secritaxy.
December 31. s. w. & w.
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
ele&ion fer twelve Diredors for the ensuing year will be.
held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cashier.
I>ec. 6. ) §tpj.
Vv alhingtOn Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS {he State of Maryland has authorifcd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpol'e of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, frowi th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 'i Prize of 30,000 dollars, zo,ooo
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn 7
Tickets, each { • J ' o3 ° 3J.000
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
XO ditto 100 a,OOO
55 5° 3,750
5 7JO ditto II , 69,00$
Tobe raised for the Caaal, 26,15#
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two tp a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commissioners hava taken the Securities re |
quired by the aforefaid a<S for the pun&ual payment c:
the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes a 6 are not demanded in fix months after th
drawing is finiflied, (hall be conlidercd as relinquiihed so:
the benefit ®f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Stgned) NOTLSV YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WafhiDg-.on, Feb. 11. J
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Ssafoti,
And fed on clover hay at the subscribers place, 12
rr ilcs on the Bristol Road, wheye good ftabUng i« pro
vided, and care will b« taken of them
William Bell.
Nov. ,23. mwf2wrofehtf.
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant JSew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Wakiut StretU.
Hour® of tuition for young ladies, from eo to t o'cloek
on Mondays, Wcdnefday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o*clock 011 the evenings 0
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new eotiilioits, he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The frrft pra&ifmg ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tucfday, during the season.
For terms, &»c, enquire at his house, N#.1 34, Market
ftreet.
Oit. 17. tthf
A Man'ufadory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, fifuatc
in a Convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original confttu£tioo, and built of the b{ft
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
purchase, arc requeued to apply at No 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f if
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 43d O&ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mk«d
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ;
a striped' veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloon*, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accvdomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that ihe fufcfcriber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. " 14 £imlawtf
Le Breton,
S VR G EON-DENT IST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King ind Royal Family of FraHce, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
K?eps a complete alTortment of every thing neoelTary
to be used fot^lhe
Prtfervation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human it Ivory Teeth ;
Dcntrifice in powder ; Opiate ; exeellent Elixir for
sweetening the month and preferring the tsefh—he
also fumilhes Bralhes and foft Sponges.
*„* He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, .tbeve
Fourtli-flreet.
November a 6. VI
Samuel Richardet
O ESPEjpTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subfcrippion Room will be furniThed with aU the
daily papers publiflaed in Philadelphia, Nsw-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be rorgnlarly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, anfl a variety |
of French Liquors; together with the uftzal refrefhments,
will it all times be procured at the bar.
Gentleman may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mo ft
approvod Malt Liquors from London and other brcwcrwe.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
produAiens of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single ftentlemen, may be
accommodated with BreaVfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours inoft convenient to themfclves—a cold Collation is
rugwlarly kept for conveniency, the Eillof Fare to be had
at the* bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifHfd, and
the utmoil attention paid to cleanliftefs, and every other
requifitc.
gj* Samuel Richardet will behappyto receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledgts
himfcif that nothing ot. his part (Hall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguilh
ingly Jiomyed.
' PhiladeJph ia, April 19 mwf
Treaiury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that prupofals wHI be ro
«civ«d at the oOice of the Secretary of the Tr«afury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
for the ule of the Unifcid Suto*., from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the pkees and within the diftri&s here
after mentioned, viz. At Olwego; at Niagara; at
Pjefque lfte; at Sandulky Lake, and on Stmduflcy
River; at Dctlroit; at Michilimackifiacj at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Harailton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jeflerfou; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loranaies Store,; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Sttubensj at Fort Maffac ; at any pluee from Fort Maffac
to the fputh boundary of the Uuited States on die river
MiifiLippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiataaon.
If l'uppUes ft\all be required ior any polls or places not
mentioned mi this notice, all such fupplks lhall be fur
niflied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before necked, or as may be hereafter agreed ©a
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be fuppliod are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread »r flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces ef
pork or bacon.
Half A gill of rum, brandy or whilkey.
One quart and half a pint of &lt.~}
Two quarts ©f Vinegar, f , , ,** •
1 , e a r P er hundred rattens
Iwo pounds or boap, f i 1
One pound of Candles, J
The rations arc to be furnifhed infmch quantities, as that
(here lhall at all times during the said term, be futiicaent
for the consumption of the troops at MicbiLimackinac,, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwcgo, fer the term of fix moath,s in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at least ihrce months in advancc, in good and wholesome
provifions,if the fame shall be required. It is to be
derltood, that the CentraAor is to be at the and
rifle of iffuirg the fuppliss to the tj-oops at aach post, and
that all lofTes sustained by the deprodationa of an enemy, or
by meaHs of the troops of the United States, (hall be paid
for'at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the dcpofitions df two or ncore persons of creditable cha
ra<ftcrs, and the certificate of a commiflioncd officcr, as
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amouflt
of ths ai titles fox tvhich oompenfation lhall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of tii*
WaihHgtoti Lottery.-
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may bo or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefau't-
where a corrmd Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe&ioa. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diawn m the Washington Lwrtary, of
which tfie 50th and gill days returns are received,
•£/" The Butinefs of' a Broker curried on as usuaL
■ v A »HARI io tht NEW THEATRE to be fold
on reasonable term*. ' Deccmbor 29, ttstf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth Jireet,
RETURNS grateful acknowledgments to hi*
Friends and the Public lor thsir liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance ol their favors.,
He has on hand an cstenfive affortmcnt of the
Most Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, suitable for the fenfoa.
At this (hop Gentlemen can he furniffied withthe Well
, materials, and have them made up in the neatest and most
Falhionabhi manner, and on the inorteft notice. He will
i thankfmlly receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pinAiiai attention to thom.
November 10.
ro BE SOLD,
A LEASE fur /even years,from the 15th March next, in thai
capital and beautiful F tailed
P R O S P E G T-H I L L,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandywine
Mills, and hall a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
""PHE dwelling house is built of ftotje, two stories high,
x gemedy fimlhed, and contains four handsome rooms on
a floor, besides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
cellars It is generally thought to command the motta
grceable profpeft of the Delaware, from the foutce of that
livei to the Capes. This profpeft ia greatly einb'cllifhed by
a full view of a vast body of meadow, through which, the
Chrilfiana and Brandywine creeks are scan winding 1,1 beau
tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kilc ion, a' fp a «io«s
i hone flahlc and hay loft, a barn, a carriage house, m:ik
ftoufe, ire. and a well of as puie water as any on the cor.ti.
ncnt. Ihe garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a.
1 bounding with trust, and particularly wtth peach trees. of
the.vety belt kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear,
ing. Thert is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
orchard begining to bear, and (everal old tree* that"produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in
great numbers. The farmconfifls of near sixty acres of l«nd,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, except taxes,
twenty ot which are now in excellent clover and timothy,
,and ten more will be ready lor lowing »ext spring. A te
flder.ee ot nearly 8 years has convinced the fublcriber that
the situation ,is remarkably healthy. The great pod load
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within fevetuy
yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and conveni
ence of this situation cannot be enumerated in an advertilo
men!,and when examined, will probably com nand the at
tention of any person who isdefirotts of living at one of the
most elegant country feat? on the continent. The ow-ehafer
may enter on the piemifts nest spring, or prrhaps, this fall,
if application be immediately made to Dettor NICHOLAS
WAY, ih Philadelphia, to Doctor WHARTON, ©n 1 '■#
jjremifes, or, ia his ab'ence, to Mr. GEOxGE TRUI'I T, hi
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, fom*
Stock, 4c. may be had by the purchaser at the time of Call.
N«v. 7 eodtf
City of Walhington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE MPkOVt.Mt.toT 0 e THH.
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 30,000 dollars, & )
'JdwelHng-houfs, J oalh 30,000, are J s°>®o®
I ditto 15,000 St eafl» 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & oalh 10,000 . io,e>co
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 .& cash 5,000 10,000
1 tafli prize of 10,000
» do. 5,00 a each, are • io,oo»
Io do. l,eoo - - 10,000
, »o do. 500 - v- IO ? ()0O
00 do. ico - - 10,000
too do. 50 - - io,oo»
400 do. 15 - 10,00®
1,000 do. ro - ae,ooo
Is,cfoa do. t9 - 150,000 .
16,739 Prizes.
3Z,26i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Cellars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will he the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved Botes, securing payment in either monvf
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery wfll afford an elegant fpecimee of the pri- -
vate buildings t» be ercCleti in the City of Walhington--
Two beautiful designs are already feletSed for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawing*
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedu&ion of five par cent, will be made to defray
the neceflary exp«iifes of printing, &c„*Qnd the furpitw
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Utiiverlity, to be erected within the city of Walhington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets arc
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty day*
after it is finiftied; and any prize, for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after tha
drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole bufinefii in a year from th£ elding of the draw
ing, ar.d to take up the bonds given as fccurity.
The real fecutittes given for the payment of the
are held by the President and two DireiJlors of jfie Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than )ia{f the a
mount ot the lattery.
The twenty fcui gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commissioners a ill if ad in the management tlti
Hotel Lottery are requofted to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fnfficient num
her of these having kindly accepted; it is hoped that tht
fritpjs to a National University and the other federal ob.
jefis may continue to favor the design.>
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the ticketa
have been sent for sale, the public are affurcd that th«
drawing will fpecdily commen*e,nnd that the care and
caution unavoidably neceflary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the iaor: fufpecfion iudifvenlable,
SAMUEL bLODGET.
»§, Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colsmhia ; of
Janjes Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard WelU'
Cooper's Ferry. ea
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
CHFSNUT-STREET,
[Pricc PeUfcsi ptr Afimtm.}