#a?ette of t&e ®i iitteu #tate.o ? and Pbiladelphia Daily Advertiser,
Nrjteqsi 1509,]
For Savannnh,
SWIFT PACKET,
i Patrick Grihben, Matter,
I ATOW lyingat Wileoeks' wharf,
and rviil positively fail on
•v.furtJay, r "th inft. She is handsomely accomm'-
for palTengjrs, and fails well.' For'frcight
fit jaffage apply to the mailer pn, board, or
N. Ssf y. Frazier,
No. 95, South Front-street.
WHO 1 HAVE FOR SALE,
Prime Rice in whole and h(llf
tierces.
Ju'y §tisth
For Hamburgh,
WjjSjffiL C H A¥ LOT T E,
C. F. Danenherger, Ma/ier.
VLL he ready to rt- cei ve the' cargo in a few
dajs, and is a faft.failing (launch, good vef-
VfJ'felW 1 —For freight or palfage, apply to
George P^nnock,
No. 103, Martet-flreet.
LAND I N G,
At Walnut-street wharf, from an bo»d (hip Man
chester, fienj. Shewell, maQcr, from Bourdeaux,
Bourdeaux Brandy
©.ld Claret iti hhds.
Medoc tylfte iu ca£es
Sauterne do. do.
. For Sale i>v - - *-
Tkpmas Mur?atroy4,
No. 11, Walnut-Jlrcet. |
Sais Ship fix Freight or Charter,
BUrthen 180 tpns, Philadelphia
" Ve ir "i Cedar, will,
be ready to fail in a few c|aj".
Jiily j. mwf
For Salcj
jgfea. The fine and remarkably f*ft'
Virginia and Philadelphia
to»s. For terms apply to
Rofs b* Suii/an. |
June la. dtf
The Shareholders
Qf 'the Psnnfylpanie Population -Company , j
ARE requested to meet at the Company'sOf
sce, Np 531 iforth Fourth Street, on Saturday
the I.sth ijijt. at ta o'clock.
By erder of. the Board,
SOLOMON MARACHE, §ec'ry.
J"'y>- fi6t.
Bank of North America.
■July \, 1797.
v At 1 meeting of the Uireftors this day, a di
ijidenrf ofsix Piit C«nt. wai declared for the
last half year, which * ill b« paid to the Stock
holdefsor their reprefewatives, #t any time af
ter the lojh inft-
Ju'y-, di.y.
Creorge Dobfon,
No. 25 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per (hips William Pcnn, Star,
and Diana, from London,
5-4 Super London Chintz, elegant patterni,
Ginghams, MuSitiette and
Fifhiouahle Waaftcoatiog, newest patterns.
Ribbapds well afibrted, in fniall trunks.
4-45-4 and 6-/J and Britilh Book-mus
lins.
Fancy Cloaths and Caffimers.
The whole to be dHpefed of cheap for Cash
or approved Notetof a (hort date.
, Jtme J4. '97* d tf.
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
from Bourdeaux, now lajiding at
Mortorfs wharf,
CQNSITIWC OF
544 hhils. of-Claret 1 2 .
4*7 cases of ditto I -a %
too ca£;s of Htfvet Oil S •?
jl f
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St. 1
L Said Rrig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Well-Indies or Europe, fails 1
toßw burthen about fifteen bun- 1
barrels, is in complete or
der, arid will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 14 .-1 ' ' 4 ,
An aflfortment of Ruflia Cordage,
AMONGST which are three cables,one of i»,
one of 10 1-1, and the other 7 i-» inches,
and each 120 fathoms long j
Bnllon Sail Duck, No's. I, a, 3. and 4
Bourbon of a very fupcrior quality 1
jfritto Coffee in bags
lfle of France Indigo ,
AXew bales well Aborted India Muslins ,
•Spermacxti Oil
JJttto Candles ,
Boston Beef, prime and njefs
Codfift in hojfhcaus j tietccs
Ditto in quintals I
Mackarel in barrels I
Herrings in ditto
4th proof Brandy, atpl
A few kegs of Lard .
ALSO,
lull laudingfroiv on board the Avlive,from Ham
burgh,
lOby 12, 8 by l<3, and 9 by II German Win
dpw Glass, and a few hexes aflortcd Duteli Glass
Ware, for (ale by
ypfepb Anthony Co.
June ij. lot
Dispute between the United States
and France.
This day ispublifhed, by Thomas Brad.-ord.Mo.
8, South Front street, rnce 1/4,
OBSERVATIONS on the dilute between the
United States and France, addre/Ted by Ro
bert Goodloe ?lAßj>tn,of South Carolina, to his
tonftituciits. ' June 26 —§9t
PHILADELPHIA
LANDING,
AT Scuth-llreet Wharf, from on hoard schoon
er Expedition, captain Harding Williair.s,
from St. Thomas, a Cargo of
Coffee, Sugar, and Rum.
1 For Sale hy
• F. Coppinjer,
No. 221, South Franl-Jireft.
July 10. §.,ot
Wants Employment,
IN a store, a Man wbt> can be well recommend
ed, writes a good hand, ancl understands ac
eompts. A pply at No. 50, North Fifth Street, and
Cherry-alley. ■ Any reputahje place will suit.
July t o. * 3t
A Wet Nurse Wanted.
A Healthy Woman wiih a good breast of
-tJV. milk, may hear of a place by applying at
the Printing Qfjjee of t}iis pap?r.
July 10. *3t
—--
Health-Office, Philadelphia Jth Jury:, 1707.
r I HE Moan/ of Health offer to rent out the NkW
1 CITY HOSPITAL, usually called The IVijr
warn.
It incy occupied .33 a Tayern, f Qr which there
ate excellent accommodations. Jhe person taking
it.mud be capabl- and willing to atf in the opaci
ty of a Steward ; in cafe a contagepus difcafc in
the city, fliould at any time fender it neeeffiry to
make use of the premises asaHofpital. It cannot
tbersfpre bi let fpr apy limited time—and the red
frame buijdwg is,to be relayed. P,opf*L
in writing yrill be .received at (his qftce, stating
what rent will be allowed under the f< cir
cumH»nc«. None need apply without being able
to produce the baft recommendations.
JO#N MILLER, Jum.
Chiirrqan of tjie Board of Health.
J u 'y ß
Thefublime Theory of the celebrated
Franklin realised.
MR. MAISOJf, desirous to (hew his gratitude
to the Companies who do
the honor to.be present every evening at the Philo-
and executed hy
three artificialjperfons, informs th.e lovers «f arts
and fcicnces, that THIS EVENING, the 7th inft.
there will be a surprising addition to the Philoso
phical Experiments, which are Co ably execut»d by
the artificial Lady : after having fired the Cannons
de Vqlta, melted metals through means of her in
:"amcd brea.ll, &.c.fu. (he will the
fise.qii a building, which, being provided with a
pointed condu&oi 1 , yvitl remain perfectly fafe, but
having applied a metalic ball t-> the point, a second
Itro)ie of tht ele&ric .fire will fall on tht fame, and
dtftroy it mftantatKqufly.
Tbi* djfcoveyr alone is ftifficient to iafu(e to the
celebrated Franklin an undoubted right to the gra
titude of the public :it is in.the country of this
great man that an European Philosopher (who al
ready at ParUobtainet! marks of his efleom) will
repeat th« beautiful wperimcnt, befprc his worthy
lel'ow citizens,in «tder to celebrate and honor ih«
memory of its author.
Theft experiment) will continue every Monday,
Wertnefday, and Friday evenings, at 8 o'clock "re
cifely, in the dancing-room of Mr. M'Dougall,
in Founh-iftrcet, between Chsfnnt and Walnut-
find .will be varied and augmented.
Entrance half a dollar —Children, one quarter of
a dollar' July 7. —mw&ftf
Bcjl Enghjh Crown Window Glass.
A well aflortcd Inyoicepfthe best Englifli
Window Glaft, of the following fizcs :
10 by 8
11 hy 9
11 by lp |
14 by 10 >V»« BOXES.
16 by 11 /
19 by 14 j
Likcwifc frefh Rice, high proof Brandy, heft
me is Beef, in half barrels,
fail Clo;h, No. J. to 3.
Sherry Wine.
A few hundred weight of excellent Du'ch Pistol
and Rifle Gun Powder—and,
Thirty Boxes Chocolate.
For Sale by,
Samuel Breck,
Ac. 89, Senth Third-Jlreei.
June »».• eoiot.
NOTICE.
T?$E iybferiher having sent by the (hip Nancy, '
X Capt. Perry, t{ie tollowing certificates of the
United States bank stock, to wit :
No.
(hares each—aud the faici vet Tel having been cap
tured on her intended voyagx to England, which '
will most probably occafmn tbe loss of the laid
certificates, gives this public potice,
That he (hall apply St the prppcr offices for a re
newal of then, and that means have been taken
to prevent any improper transfer.
Henry Philips,
No. lTa,South Front-street.
June 1. 3^w6w
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, 6th July, '97.
THE mail for New Cajlle, CautweU's budge. 1
Duck Creek cross toads, Jia-ver % Frederjca, Mil
ford, George Towl (in the place of Cle<wes) and \
Dagjborough, in Delaware ; Trap,and Snow- 1
hill, in Maryland ; Horn Town, Accomack C. ,
H.and Northampton.C. H- in Virginia ; .uAll ■.
be clojcd every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday,
at fun [el. lßt 1
Wanted on Rent, ,
WITHIN seven miles of Philadelphia, a 1
convenient House with a Garden, fuitar !
ble for the accommodation of a.genteel frnall fa
mily, for which a fuitahle rent will be given.
Any perlon having Inch an one to let, will be
plc'afedto leave information of the situation and
terms at No. 43, North Third ftrect. ,
June ai epjt
f or Sale, I
THE time of a Mulatto Man, who has about 9
years to serve, underftaods the care at Huri- '
es, and isa gpodw^itcr.
Inquire of the Printer. I
Jp ne >6. J
"Jujl Pubtifhcd, %
And to be had of Messrs. Dokfon, Campbell,<Rice, '
Cary, apd the otJiec f ficipal Bookfcilcrs in the '
city,price one dollar, twinty-five.cents,in bAards, '
New Views of the Origin of the J
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAVIIN sf,m H BAXTON, m.d.
June jo. . «6t
By John Fen-no, N° 119 Chejmtt Street.
CAUTION.'
TT7"HEREAS WjLtiAM Shawkon, Au<£li
' « , }ljrt ]' in Cljj-pcolc'i American
IJaily Advcrtifer of this (Jay, advmfed for
I i ~, , .0 n to " niorT ow the S'fh inlliiit, a *npiU\
j building Lot, on the tKirtfc fiile oi Mijlbeirv
ftrect, between! Sixth and Seventh fl{rre7s' rround
rtl and otlierwife described as in ' • I d adver
tderrent Is mentioned—Al| jk«W«s He Sereby
cautioned not to purebafe the lime, is the'ecuif
table title thereto is veiled m the toendem, jbi-'
reflora, and Company of die Bank mfjhe United
otates, who mean to prbseed at law for the re
covery thereof.
By order of the Directors,
George Simp/on, Cajhier.
- J"'y ?• d»..
The Commissioners
carrying into efFeil the fixtli article of the
X treaty of amity, commerce and navigation, ex
cluded between his Britannic majesty and tbcUt.ited
Stat® of America, en the 19th day of November,
1794, having this day conlcituted their Board,
purfuaqt and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they ajj ready to proceed to
business accordingly ; and (hey delire that all claims
under the said article (which To far as the fane de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
1 heyiurther desire that all such claims may not
pply ft ate in wfiat manner the several cases come
within the dellriptioH of tbc laid article, but also
lpeciaUy set forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpeAiveiy undertake tefub
ftantiate the fame.
Extrail from the said article,
" Whereas it is .pledged by divers firitifli ,ir)er
" charts, and others hU majeity's fujijedls, that ]
" debts to a cotifidezable amount, which were bona ;
fide contraded, before the jtince, ftUt remain
" owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of the '
" United States; and that by the operation of va
" nous lawlul impediments, fmce the peace, not
r pnlythe full recovery of the said debts has been '
" delayed, but jlfothe value and security thereof
■" have been in several instances impaired and lefi
ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
proceedings, the .fSritilh creditors cannot now
" obtain and actually have and receive fuU and:
" adi'qua'e compensation for the lofles and dama-J
" ges which tney have thereby fuf ained: It is a
*' greed that in all ftich cases where full compenfa- i
" tion for such loflcs and damages cannot for what- 1
" ever reason be aftu illy obtained, had and recei-i
" v«d hy the.said creditors in the ordinary courfjj 1:
"of justice, the.United States -v#ill make full and t
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
" creditors : but jt is diftindly understood, that,
I " this provjfiyn is to.ejtwnd to such laiTesonly as 1
" Jiave been occafionjd by the lawful impediments. 11
" .itori l.iid, aad is not to extend to losses occasion- 1;
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other' t
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro- r
" duce such lpfs, if the said impediments had not
" existed ; nor to such lofles or damages as have
" been occasioned by the manifeft delay, or ncgli- t
'• tcucc, or wilful qmiflion ps the claimant." li
By order «/ the Board, 1
GJUFFITii EVANS, c
Secretary. |
Philadelphia, Commissioners' Office,
No. 3
J|797. J 6—;frfm ; £
I 'ilk SUBhCRUtEK having been appointed by
J. the Envoy Extraordinary and Minilfcr Pleni- t
potenturyof his Britannic Majefly, General Agent J
tor aflifting Briiiih crcdilori, and such particular a- r
gent! at they may authorize, in profecuung
their claims before the c«mmi(Goner« for cairyjug in-. C
10 effect the (ixih article o( the Treaty of Amity, Com-'
merceani Navigation ktuxtn his Britannic V/ijefty and ..
the United State* of America, Hereby gives notice 1 hat
be has opened hu office at hit koufc the foutli east n
corner of Chefnut and fifth (I'feu, Philadelphia,
where be is ready to receive all claims or
for claims with the vouchers aud document! thereof, 1
for the purpose of bringing .forward the agree
ably so the rulea and orders which the board may
think proper to prcfcribe.
And ai it will be tor the intercft of all concerned,
that the several claims be ,so flattd, and fiinport- t
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the ncccffity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional material,from perform residing at adiltauce,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (lor the
direction chitfiy of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agenis, ma/leave the protection of
their claims to his charge and managemen') that all
such claims ought in particular to let forth—
ift. The proper defcripuou and titration of ihe
creditor or claimant, rnd original deburr, refpefk
ively. t
>d. The date or nature of the original contrafi or r<
debt. ti
3d. When, in what manner, to what exu'nt,
the creditor or claimant w«s ptcvenied or impeded. P
by the provision, operation or deleft of law, the a
dccifions and pradjice of couris, or refliaint of exr- a
cutiou, from teco.vering payment cf the de)>i in ,
qucftion.
4th. The lofaand damsge incurred or fuflained, '
in consequence of such impediments, whether the e
fame may have arisen from .the infolveney, change of Q
fttuation, or death of the debtor, the loss of. legal
remedy ftom lapie of time, ot ®ther causes impairing
the value and security of the debt, which would not a:
havefo operated.ii/uch impedimenta had notexiiled. ft
And sth The particular grounds and rea(oni on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the c
treaty, that ■' by the ordinary course of judicial pro- 0
iogf, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually X
have and receive lull and adequate compensation" for Q
the lodes and damages so (uflaiued.
The general agehi thinks it his duty further to sug
gest that the several claims ought to be accompanied t<
and supported by tbe affidavits of the claimants duly t<
(worn and regularlyattelieif, both as to the existence f (
of the debts claimed, and such other circumflanccs -
as may be within their own knowledge refpeftively. i'
And wherever the claimants in Hating the nature of t".
their evidence (yhichmufttn every instance be the
bed of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to q
refer to the teflimoriy of witnesses, it will be proper
to apprifethe gentral agent of the name! and places ft
of relidence of such witneifesaqd the fa&sto be cfta- t(
blilhed by their tcftimony. y
Wm. Moore Smith. t,
June ?;h, 1797, dim _
For Sale, P
That well known plate, called T's ti
"t r r n v,
ON Iv'efhaminy creek, r8 miles from Pluh- j
latjelphia, on the New York poll road, []
containing 74 aerts and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two itery ilone house occn
pied asatvern, and a good one story ftonekit-
chen, a large frame (labia with agoodthrefhing
floor, and lonic out buildings—also a well of tl
good water, and an excellent ice House. On ft
this place is a moft.elejjant situation fora gentle- n
man's feat,.commanding a viay of the Keiliam- e .
iny to its junction wiih the Delaware, and thenc?
across to. the Jcr Icy shore. It has the privilege q
of one half tbe toll received from the bridge. 0
For terfas apply to the Stibfaiber,
MORD-C A.I £!i WIS. ai
May 54. jtawrf; a:
TUESDAY EVENING, JULt 11, 1797.
DOCUMENTS
1- Accompanying the Secreta'ry of Sra e's Reyort.
(Concluded from our lail.)
Jl . E No - v -3
From Timothy Pickering, to the Chevalier.
de \Hijd, Minister Plenipotentiary of his
i I Catholic Majefly.
Department of State,
. March u,., 1797.
d Sir,
I HAVE laid before the President cf j
the United States your lettec of the 2d in
stant, mentioning your fufpicionij that an
expedition is preparing on the lakes, 00 the
part of the English ; the objeft of which is
to attack upper Louisiana, and to take by
, surprize St. Louis and New Madrid ; and
. that to aceomplilh tfiis obje£t the Englifti
I troops intended to pass the routes you
■ mentioned, or by . other parts of the territo
ry of the United States : and you request
their goverument to take the nectflkry rnea.
lures to prevent such a viqlation of their ter
ritory.
First remarking, that the government of
the United States poflfefs no information,
nor the'knowledge of any circumltances in
dicative of such a design as that yovrfwfpeft,
I have the honpr to afture you, that true
to the prindples of aft impaftiid neutrality
to which the United States have hitherto
invariably adhered, their government will ,
be anxious to maintain the rights of their ,
neutral situation, and on all occasion* adqpt ,
and purftie toeafures which shall ap
pear proper and expedient for that end. ,
I pm, with great refpe<ft, ftc. • ,
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
The chevalier de Yrujo, L
Minister Pjenipotentia- c
ry of his .Catholic Ma- \
jefty. ,
I
[No. Vl.]
(TRANSLATION.)
Sir,
WHILST I poflefs new reasons for be- f
lieving that it is intended to cariy into effeft
the expedition againll Upper Louisiana, on A
tjie part of the Enjglifh,:by violating the J
territory of the United States, as was ma- j
njfefted to you in my letter of the 2d March /
last, I must add that I know to a certainty n
that the English have made propositions to t.
Gen. Clarke, of Georgia, in order to avail e
themselves of his influence in that State, /,
together wi(h fopie other persons, for mak- p
ing a diversion or serious attack again ft 0
Florida; and as by your letter ftf the 11 th 0
of the last month, you aflure roe that the
United States, would take the neceffaiy
meafures for causing their neutrality to be. j
rcfpetfled, I do not .doubt that in confe-,
quence of this my information, the execu
tive govenimerit jvill take the proper steps,
in order th?t Georgia also should not in
fringe the laws of neutrality to the injury
of the poffeflions of the king my master.
I embrace this opportunity to renew to
you .my wiihes to/erve ypu, and that God
may preserve p r ,i r life many years.
Your tnoft obedient servant,
CARLOS MARTINEZ DE YRUJO.
Philadelphia, April u
-Timothy Piciysjuw<3, EsQi • r
.[Awy/.]. IJ
From Timothy Pickering, tp the Chevalier ,
de Yrujo, Envoy Extraosdiriary and Mi- u
Plenipotentiary of his Catholic
Majesty. L
DEPARTMENT OF STAtE, ti
Philadelphia, April ii, 1797. j e
Sir, I
I HAVE the honour to acknowledge t ,
the receipt of your letter 1 of the 21ft inft. n
repeating your suspicions that it is intended
to carry into effeft an expedition, on the
part ps the Epglifli, against Upper Louift-
ana, thrpugh ( the territory of the U. States ; ,{
and adding that you know to a certainty 0
that the Englifti have made propositions to tl
Gen.-Clarke in Georgia, to obtain his infltf-
ence in that State, with a view to a diversi
on pr serious attack against. Florida.
To the firft polpt I have the honor to 5
answer, that although this government is
still destitute of any knowledge of fatfts or
circumftancec indicating that an expedition
on the part of the Engliih, against Upper
Louisiana, ha? heen projefted, yet deftrous
ps .living on terms of amity with our nejgh
bours, on one fide and .the other, agreeably
to fubfiftiilg treaties, I have cojmmunicatcd .
to the Minister of his Britannic Majesty, 1
for the information ps his government, the 1
suspicions you have exprelfed, of an intended w
expedition against Upper Louisiana, and P
the declaration of the Prefiden.t of the U.
States, that he cannot cbnfent that either
should march troops through the U. States
to attack the other. The sense of the t '
American Government being thus declared e
beforehand, we cannot presume that a mea
sure will be undertaken which cannot be a '
prosecuted without a violation of our ueu
tral rights. 11
With regard to the profpeft of an expe
dition by the Britilh against Florida, with
the aid of Gen. Clarke, and of persons
whom he might influence, I have to inlbrrn
you that orders have been forwarded to the
djftrict attorney ps Georgia tp enquire into
the fa& as stated by you, and, if discovery
should be made of designs to -violate our
neutral duties, and especially of forming an .
expedition against the territory of bis Ca
tholic Majesty from the tclritory of the U. y
States, tp take the mpft proper and t'i&c- fr
tual measures for fruurathig such deiigns ; tl
and, if the fame (hould be maoifefted -by g
any overt ails, to caufs the offenders to be ai
arrtfled andlvcttlght to condign punishment.
I have the honor to be, &c..
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
To the Chevalier de Yrujo, Epvoy
Extraordinary and Minister Ple-
; r nipoteatiary of his Catholic Ma
1S jwty.
[aVo. Fill.-]
From Timothy Pickering to Robert Lifor:.
Ffquire, envoy extraordinary, i&t. of lit
'* Britannic rnajefy.
Department of State,
Philadelphia, April 2?j, 1797*.
e 'Sir,
s IHE minificr bf his Catholic majesty, early
' March Ictfl, represented to this government
J his ffpicions that an expedition was preparing
1 on the lakes, on the part of the Englj'j, whofi
1 cbjeii <was an attack on the Spanifhp jjs in Up
■ per Louisiana by a rtnite through ihe t rritory of
the United States, and requejled t'je govern
■ meat to take meafares necejfary to prevent such
■ a violation of their territory.
In the aiifwer to the spanish, minifier, ifter
the remark that the governnta t' of the United
States had no knowledge of toy circufnjlances
indicative of the dejign he Ji fie fled, he was as
sured that, tree to the principles of an impar
tial neutrality, to -which the,United,States Lvve
hitherto invariably adhered, their government
Would be anxious to maintain the rights of ihtir
neutral Jituption, and on all occafyns adopt
and pursue the measures which fhq/dd appear
proper and expedient for thqt end^/"'
His Catholic Majefly's miniJUr having late
ly renewed his reprtjfiliation, declaring that he
had recent ground to believt that it is intended to
carry into ejlß the extodttion before mentioned
again/1 Upper Low fane, through the territory
of the United Stafes, lam direfled by the Pre
sident of the United States to make to you this
communication, and to declare,, that desirous of
living on ierjns of amity with their neighbours
on one fide and the other, agreeably to fublifi
it-g treaties, he cannot copfent that either should
march troops through the territory of the Uni
ted Sta-es to attack the other.
The fefife and motives of the American gov
ernment being thus exprejfed, I doubt not the
fame will be duly refpeSed on (he part of the
Briti/hgovernment ; and without judging whe
ther the suspicions of his Catholic majefly's mi
nijler ate or are not founded, lam persuaded
that the declaration now made will be confder
ed as a proof of our good will, by preventing
the great expense of preparations for an enter
prise which cannot be prosecuted without occasi
oning a violation of the neutral rights or duties
of the United States.
I have the honor to be, &e.
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
Rob£KT JListon, Esq. En
voy extraordinary, &c. of
his Britannick rqajcjly.
LNo. IX. already fublifhed. ]
[Ac. .A-.]
Peparttrtent of State,
March 16, 1737.
Sir,
ThE second article of the treaty bet<uicet)
the Unite* Slates find, his Catholic majefly flip
ulated " that if there should be any traops,gar
■"ifops, or fettle meats of either party in the ter
ritory of the other, (according to the bomda
ries fxed by the fame article) they should It
withdrawn from the said territory within the
term of fix,months after the ratification of that
treaty, or sooner tf it were poffihle". The
United States have no troops, garrisons or set
tlements within the terititory of his Catholic .nc
j'Jly. IVe do not know whether those of his
Catholic majfly within the United Slates terri
tory at the time the treaty abuvementioned was
made, have been fnce withdrawn, I am, there
fore, dirtied by the Prefdent.to enquire, and
do requefi you to inform me what is the fatt ;
cwd if those troops, izfe. have not beep with
drawn, 'sufhat orders or measures for their
withdrawing,have been taken. It is now near
eleven months fnce thereftificfltipn an<{,ex(hange
of tlie treaty took place.
I have the honor 40 be, iSfc.
TIMOTHY PICKER IXC.
The iChevedter de Yr,ujo, min
ificr plenipotentiary of his
Catholic majtjly, £sV. i^c.
[No. Xl.]
(TRANSLATION.)
SIR,
ALTHOUGH I received in duetimethe
letter which you did me-the honor to write
me on the 16th ult.—an indisposition, from
which I am not yet altogether recovered,
prevented me from replying to the enquiry
you.make relative to the evacuation of the
Spanish pdfts within the pew line of demar
cation of limits. I now take up my pen
to inform you that several rnonths have
elapsed since I ha/.e received a litter from
the Baron de CaroncMet, and of course I
am deprived of any information touching
the Heps taken for the execution cf the
treaty
I offer rr.yfelf to yo;:r disposal, praying
God to preserve your life many years.
Your molt obedient servant,
CARLOS M. DE Y RUjO.
Philadelphia, 17th April, 1797.
Timothy Pickering, Esq^
[No. 12.]
[TRANSLATION.]
Eight or ten days ago I made knoiyn to
you the ir.fcrrftation which I had received
from the baron de Carondelet, relative to
the'occurrences at the Natchez, between tha
governor don Manuel Gaynfo de Lenrea
and th'i corsmiffisner of U:)iud States,
[Volume XII.Ms. Ellicott j and .beiag defiroai at tkli
time to avoid all equivocation, a$ to the Cub- E
ilance of those letters, I have determined
tq communicate it tp you in writing* f-
By the 2d article of the treaty with
Spain it is ttipulated that thtgarrifms which
firefoundabove the line ofdernarcaVon agreed fe
x>n,ihall be'withdravvn. Settingout then with ri
this principle, it appears that the sfft ope
ration ought to be t6 draw this line, in or- p
der to know which were 4he garrKorts which I
were to withdraw according to the article n,
cited; and although the Natchez and some • a
other Spani{h polls. are probably fttuated a- *j
bove the said line of demarcation, the for- it
rnality and delicacy which one government a
owes to another, required that Mr. Ellicott c,
"should not pretend to take, pofleflion of the 1
territory until the said demarcation (hould C
be spade, and the njore .so, as he had been f
infoiWd officially that the Spuniih engineer, b
M. Guillemard, was already on his way to j
faifil this part of liis com million. e
Mr. Ellicott not attending to these jufl
obfervayons, immediately began to wound I
tjie feelings of the Spanish Commander by 1
ho&ling the American flag on the territory J
which would not belong to the United
Slates, till after having jointly made the as- <
rranoLiiical observations for afeertaining the >
fcOurfe*eif the.line. Not content with this,
he began to exereffe an authority, to wit,
that of for the United States in a
place whiih was .then u l nder the juvifdidlion
of the Spiu. iih govern men t.
These imprudences, which can admit of
no txcufe, give rife to a personal resentment, i
from which there is little to hope with res- '
peit to harmony between those Commiflion- '
ers'in fixture. \ !
In tnefe clrcumftances, the Governor 1
General cf the province, the Baron de Car
ondelet, made known thejull dodbts which <
he had about the deliveVy of the polls, ft nee
in the 2d article, it is not flipulated that they
were to Up> .and it i'ety"s jt
could never have been the intention of his
Catholi* Majblty to deliver up any fort?fi
cations on he had expended gr&t
fumaof money, which through political
viciflitudes might perhaps be one day preju
dicial to his subjects. In this situation,
prudence required that the defcifion of this
doubtful point (hould be left to the two go
vernments ; but Mr. Ellicott adding impru
dence to imprudence, and with a pretext
which a quarrel between some drunken
Chickafaws and the people of his company,
afforded him, not only violated a territory
then Spanish, by deuring to excite the
inhabitants by all imaginable means, but al
so carried his zeal so far as to attempt to get
pofleflionofthefort ofthe Natchezby surprise.
Govenqr Gayofo fays he has in his power
douaments which prove evidently the inten
tion of this attempt: Such conduft was lit
tle calculated to produce the spirit of harmo
nyin such circumftaqces, and obliged Go
vernor Gayofo when he difcovercd such
hostile intentions, to take on his part, mea
fure3 necessary for his defence.
This is the true Hate of things, by which
it clearly appears th?t the inconsiderate con
"dust of Mr. Ellicott is the only cause of the
disagreement at the Natchez; the more so,
as the Spanish commanders declared to him
that while the two governments were deci
ding on the doubt which occurred to the Ba
j»n de Carondelet, about the delivery of the
posts, the drawing of the line of demarcation
might be begun, when Mr. de Guillemard,
who had already departed from New Orleans
for the Natchez, should arrive.
If in this situation of the business, the
commanders changed their ideas, or their
measures, it could only proceed from the
imprudent conduct of Mr. Ellicott. Ihe
Baron de Carondelet, desirous of observing
rcligioufly the treaty,- so far as was not in
consistent with his duty, feeing the personal
resentment which exists between Mr- Elli
cott and Governor Gayofo, desires that there
jnay be ifent to command the detachment
of American troops on that frontier, a man
of judgment and prudence, who in such de
licate circumflances shall aft with modera
tion, which is of so much importance to- tbe.
two governments.
This is what I had the honour of com
municating verbally to you fir, in my lafl
conference and 1 repeat it now; recommend
ing moCe particularly that there should be"
sent on the part of the United States to that
frontier, a p'erfon of prudence and found
judgment; leaving to Mr. Ellicott the tech
nical part only; for while he atts as princi
pal, it is to be feared that we shall not fee
the agents of the two governments, which
are interested, proceed with that union pnd
harmony which is ever important to us.
I repeat, fir; my wishes of obliging you,
and that our Lord may preserve your life
many years.
Philadelphia, 24th June, 1797-
1 -Your mofl obedient servant,
CARLOS MARTINEZ DE YRUJO.
Timothy Pickering, Esq.
&c. Sec.
[No. X///.]
ATyva Orleans, 1° Marzo, 1797*
Mui Senor mi* :
BE recibido con mucha fatisfaccion la apre
ciable de V. S. <fe 27 Febreropafado enquefe
serve parhciparme fu arrivo a efa plaza con el
■arafter de Comifario por lis Eflados UniJos
de America para la demarcation de limites cntre
los territprios de S. M. C. y los.de las dichos
EJlados.
Me cauja igualmente la mayor complacencta
clteflmoniv que V. S. me da de la urbanidad y
' atenciones que ha recivido de los comandanles de
las fuertes, quienes ban correfpondido a las in
lenciorief detgfbierno, a mis ordenes, y a los
principles generctles de la nation ; y no dudo que
en qualquier'a epportunidad enrwilraran los Ef
pmoles iycly rcciproca correffcndencia de parte
de los ciuidadanos de los Ef.ad'rs Unidcs.
Dios, (3V. B. L. M.de V. S.
Su mas at°. Sr.
EL BAKOS DE CARONJSOLET. ■
t
Sr. Don Andrew Ellicott.
cM. XlV:\ ) ci
E.<i"a3 oj a letter frim Wiaiurop Sargent,
Esq. Secretary of ihi of the
North Weflern Territory, to the Secretary
vf State, dated Cin^ihtiati,
General Willinfon Jipding off I
feizt the occr.pon to tra/ifitfbe jar 01/ fane *ta* w
ragraphs (tf a weflern biter. _ jt
" The Spaniards are reinforcing tWSrupper ' '
pojls on the Mflftppi confidir'ably—General p
Howard, an Iri/imarr, in-itti quality of Com- oJ
mander in Chief, tviih, upwards of 3JO men, jc
arrived at St. fouls and empliyed ii erecting w
very forntidabli moris. It like%::p appears U
through various channels that' they are inviting 1
a great number of Indians of the territory to
crcfs the Miffjippi and for this exprvfs furpofe ' |
Mr. Larromie an officer in [he pay of the c ;
crown made a tour through all this country lajl
fall.; Jihce which time several Indians have r(
keek"sent on the fame errand—and generally "
furriifhed with plenty of cajh to defray their (
expenses " „
" A large party of Delawares puffed down <(
White River about the 6th of May on their •<
way to the'Spanifh fide bearing the national "
flag of Spain sent them from St. Louis." "
" They (the Spaniards) Lave above the
mouth of the Ohio, on the Mtfjifippi, several
row-gctllies with can^jn."
[No. XVII.-\ C
Department of State,
Philadelphia, April 21th, 1797.
Sir, l
THIS week I received your letter express
ing your acceptance of the office of Diflriß At
torney for Georgia. I was .gratified by the (
information ; and hope your health may be re- f
cflabliHed and enable you to continue to hold \
aml rxercife it. |
IVitbin a few days, the Spanish minifler, the <
chevalier de Trujo, has written me as follows. (
. " I know to a certainty that the English '
" have made propositions to genera! Clark of 1
Georgia in order to obtain his powerful influ- "j
" ence in that slate, in conjunction with some
persons ivho might make a diver/ion «r fcri
" ous attack, aga 'uf l Florida ; and I doubt not
" that in confcqvence of this my advice, the Ex
" ecutive government will take suitable Jleps
" for effectually preventing the rights of neu
" trality bting infringed by Georgia, to. the
" prejudice of the possessions of the king my
" mafler" , ,
His letter has been laid before the President
of the United States, by whose direßion I have
now to de/ire'you immediately to enquire into
the faS affcrted by the Spanish minifler ; and
if any discovery shall be made cf designs to vi
ofate our neutral duties, and efpedaily of form
ing (in expedition againfl the territories of his
Catholic maj/fly, from the territory of the U
nited States, in defiance of thfir laws, and
particularly of the aci.qf Congress for the pu
nishment of crimes agq\nfl li*e United States,
passed on the sth June l 7.94 —that vou will
take the mofl proper and effectual measures for
fru/lrating such designs ; and if the fame shall
be manifejlcd by any overt aits, to cause the of
fenders to be arrefled and fetured, that they
may be brought to condign punifhntent. Inde
pendently" of the aid, which if necessary you
. will reqeirt of the Governor of Georgia, the
commanding officer of the federal troops in that
slate, will be dire Red by the Secretary of IVar
. to afford you all the effiflance in his power.
I shaH be obliged by your acknowledging
the receipt of this letter ; and by a commu
, nication of the result of your enquiries into
( the fubjeft of it.
I am Sir, with great refpeft,
Your mofl obedient Servant,
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
r Charles Jackson, Esq^
. Diftrift Attorney for the > .
, State of Georgia, J
[ [No. 18.]
1 Extraft of a leter trom Charles Jatkfon, Esq.
Diflriil Attorney of Georgia, to the Secre
tary of State, dated Savannah, aid May,
e : «W- '
t Sin,
1 Your letter of the ultimo* I had the
honof to receive some few daya past. It has
re'naaiaed unanswered nntil tbe present moment,,
that I might enable myfelf to ascertain whether
e jr not the f*fpicion» entertained by the Spanish
minister, Gen Clark, as exprefled
- in-your Utter, were well founded. I have made
I diligent enquiry, and cannot find any person
. hercthat k,nows any thing ofthe butineft,-..0r
e that entertains a beliaf the- kind. Clark wa»
concerned in a forn\er expedition against the
Floiidas in conjunction with tke French, and it
is pofltble from this circutiitlance that he is a
" gain fufpeited- tie is a man of flrong passions,
- of warm partialities for the French, and violent
e antipathies to the English. jFrom these cif
h cumftances, and from the matter beingunknown
to the fitiizem here, .I am led to doubt the
truth of the report altogether. It might not be
tmprpper to add, that he jt far from being the
[> man of influence fuggelied by the Spanilh min
e ifter. But Ihbuld it happen contrary to my
expedition that C.'artlShould be daring eneugh
to attempt a violation of tbe la-* s of the Union,
by accepting a commifFion, as has been njen-
I tioned, nc exertions (hall be wanting 011 my
part to bring him to punishment, and should it
be necessary, I shall direfll the marshal to call to
his aid the Federal troops. But I have no
doubt on my own part, but the civil authority
has fufficient strength in this ftite, to carry into
effect the laws ofthe Union. 1
[No- 19.J
Kotterdam, May 9th, 1797.
f Dear Sir,
. Altho' in the poftfeript to the original quad
ruplicate of No 15, forwarded to-day,. I have
,s mentioned the latefl intelligence, yet as I find
'e that the schooner Mary, of Boftim, Capt. Hall,
is is to fail from this port to-morrow, 1 beg leave
to mention again, that a fumrnary of some ®f
; j the articles of the preliminaries of the treaty of
peaee, between France and the emperor, arri
•J ved here this morning, " The emperor cedes
" " Belginm to tlif French republic ;he recog
'- << nizes the independence of the republic of
is " Lombard)-. He admits {he extension of the
le " Frenrh boundaries, to the limits already
f. " frefcribed by • their cenftitution and laws..'
t Therefore the Meofe, and not the Rhine :S to
be theVoundary. Bu<jnap>rte's flanks and rear
were threatened w.ben the pi ellminariea Were
agreed upon. Th£ Auflriaps had rcfovertd.the
jfylrcrl, 'Friuli and T-nf'fte.
J received accoantj! to-day, tliat the Juliana,
from Norfolk in Virginia, is taken andcarried
into Haw, and xhat tile Juna, Rajnb»w:and
"lirhitllf, three fro n C!i#i .fi'joil, .aiiti. (tie i ■
lebe from Savannah, ire captured and carried J o f,
nto Nyitz, and in all probability will Jjr con- i j- j
leraned for want of a *' Role d'Lquifrtge" cer- I
•Bed by a public officer, ngreeabl'y to the re- !
julation prefcribtd by France. t
I enclosed you ill No. t.;, ('be original of
.vhich I sent t>y Caot. Simpfoin of the Kcpuhli- fai
••an, via B.iUiinrirt, the {duplicate by Captain c it
Goodrich of tbf Ly.dta, via New-York ; the
:riplicate by Capt. Harrington of the Eliza to y
Philadelphia, and the quad ■iifjeate tothecare
-)1 Air. liny )'c6picß of citizeh Merlin's letter ~
10 Mr. Stijjwith». coilful 'general at Paris, in
which lie fays, that when \.ve becpnis.juft and '
g r ateful, and bitak . • •«r iiu i edible ti-eaty with Ft
Englandt l'rjj.ce .will dc-fift from ber preleiit V e
with refpeft to ti*. I refer you to the !
copies tranfmitUtVas above,, for tljt particiihrs | (
of this curiou" letur, it is now pulilifncd'ai otli- ,
uial in the " Kedaileur."
Major Motintdoreniieinfotms irte by the letter
received (ottAiy.lt' that he bad dra\vti 1 reply to pe
" it; bu£ that it luJ been, judged aot proper th
" t»be sent, but in lieu thereof it had been m
" prppofed to inform the minister hy a fbort '
" nate, that pgroftirig in t.be former reclama
tions and not authorized by the government
"ef the United States to enter into a formal di- ]
" plomatic diftvffliun, on the fubjeift therein
" mentioned, a copy of his letter of the 4th Flo
" real, should be transmitted to our fecrstatv
" of flatc."
I remain with real refpeft and tfteem, * tl
y.iurnaolt obedient hnmb'e servant, a!
CHAkl.t SGOTESWOR i'H | J INCKNEY. tc
Coi. Pickering, Svtretary
of*the United States.
[Nn's XV and XVI are papers which 31
have already leen^ullijhtd.~\
NEW-YORK, July A. k
The Utter of Merlin minifttr of justice, to the
Consuls of America in Fraace, is one of those ci
extraor.duary things which charafterize the fc
French nation in the present revolution. If ex- ft
prefsly enjoins on the United States a violation j
of the treaty with Great Britain, at the conditi
on of obtaining the favor of the French govern- c
ment. Thitis, wc must be faitbl&fs, perfidious
rascals, aiid then we may expgft the returning tl
favor and affeflion of France. This is precisely fl
the the mini/ler of jujlics. ti
It a a remarkihle faft that a high cfcari&er, , Q
at thPhead of dppof.tiou, said a few weeks ago t
in public c»mpa»y," That one of the sppdiiions
of preserving peace with France wouhfbe, a
breath of the treaty <wit£ Great Britain■" So
perfeftly well do the French in France and their f
partizans inthis country utidciftand each other. \
—• 5
Traullatcd for the Diary, from the Gazette s
■ .Francoisy■
The fftllowing extraft trom a Paris paper
may serve as a key for poftenty to the rapid and 1
prodigiom fortunes accumulated by fpecu'.ation 1
during the revolution. • (
Methid oj making a for.une in three hours by I
means if manJats, ajfignutandfpecie. ]
FIRST HOUR. ;
Operation t. A man han a refcription, or pro
visional inandat for topo livres. ,He lells it at 1
70 per cent difcouut, and receives 300 livres- '
He buys ajjignats at 6oe» livres per louis, arid 1
receives fur his jo crowns 7.5,000 livrci in afjig• 1
nats. 1
With these affignata he goes to the treasury, ,
and according to the law allowing 1 for 30, he
receives in refcriptioas aj.ooo livres,-
cent profit upon his capital.
Operation a. The fame proccfs repeated pro- 1
duces 6,ajo livres.
Operation 3. The refcription is fold for 1,875
this sum.buys 478,7.50 livres in af
fignats, which brings in a refcription for 13,6aj
Operation 4. i l.r. refcription fellsfor46B,7io
specie, equal to in afiignats, and these
to »refcription of 39,06a1. 10s.
SECOND HOUR.
The refcription, by the fame operations re
peated, produces 1,515,895 livres.
THIRD HOUR.
These 1,525,895 in the fame .planner, accu
mulate by 4 operations to 59,605.3371
The speculator, tirtd at length of this day's
work, fells out at 80 per cent - discount, and re
ceives 11,911,040 livres in gold, the produce of
50Cr»wnsin thiee hours and 12 operations.
CHARLESTON, June 23,
FrOm'a COrrefpotident.
The Citizeh JLe Cohte, an offi. J er of the
marine of the French Republic, arrived a few
day* finee inthis ciy, from Porto Rico,
afiures that the goverhor of that island, to re
• ward the zeal and bravery which the French
citizens shewed in defending it against the
th e invasion of the English, has granted to
these brave warriors an unlimited liberty of
commerce to Portt>-'Rico, for the space of
two years.
The citizen Le Conte also informs, that
he saw at St. Martin's, about fix weeks ago,
a vuffcl belonging to the French Republic,
furnifhed with passports from all the powers
of Europe, deftincd to make a voyage round
the world ; she had on board a number of
fcientific gentlemen ; foeral of these the citi
zen Le Conte co'nverfed with.
NORFOLK, July 1. •
Extraft of a letter from Ca£t. Henry
Ditkfon, of tb« ship Bowman, of this
port.
Guadaloilpe, Point pctte, May 2 3
" this is my fifth* since captured and
1 brought in here I hope some of them will
reach you before long. This letter I fend
. you by my mate, who goes passenger in a
, panilh sloop to St. Thomas's.
> " 1 mentioaed in ftiy former letters that 1
' was put on board the prison ship immediately,
' after the Bowman was at an anchor—in
which place I Hill remain confined—not al
lowed to go on shore—nor on board of any
of the America*s that are iu the harbour—
The ship and cargp has been condemned a
- fortnight ago
f lam not at liberty (neither should 1 thi.-ik
* it fafe) to express ffly thoughts on the pro
' ceedings herts;
L ( " I can give you no information refpefting
j markets, or any thing else ftom tlie fhote. I
. am not allowed t« go.there, Bor do 1 know
s when I shall.—l am here cooped up from al
- molt every,body." '
1 *bloneof these have been received.
> Extraft of a letter from Mr. Thomas
3 Woodhotifr, mate of the ship Bowman.
r St. Thomas's, June 15
6 "The letters Captain Dickfon gave me,
e when 1 feft him in Point Petre t n the 23d
of May, on board the prison ship, I have
\ forwarded irrthe brig Abigail, Capt. Ar.der
;l j lon, who rcfuftd re a paffagehome
'* The aiul tnyuli ari on. hoard tin
>f a fiyop bfli n to Newbury, and will pc;
ail for Norfolk in three days." of
Yesterday arrived here the schooner Eliza, Sc
«tain Moffatt,. 19 days from Jacquegael. <>'
0 informs that four days previous to his U.i
failing, a schooner arrived there from the Ri
:ity of Saint D ova in go, who related that a fp l
feet of ihips, under convoy of i 5 fail of the eg
iine (French and Spanish) had arrived there fh;
—captain Moffatt cannot inform whether tw
they had any troops on board. a^l
Captain Moffatt, also informs, that two tic
French .generals had returned from the in
veilment of .Port-au. Prince in confluence of <h<
disturbance among the Brigands, and had fh'
resumed their command in the neighbour- oS
hood of Jacquemel. , • f |r
The Spaniards are withdrawing their pro- <jf
perty from the island and fending it., and ed
their negroes to Cuba. ar
fo
CONGRESS. •
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES, j".
Thursday, July 6. hi
(Concluded from our last.)
Mr. Sitgreates said, it was observable e {
that no gentleman had ventured to do w
any more than exprvfs his doubts, both as b<
to the faft and the law on this occasion. t e
With refpeft to the faft, he did not expect
ahydoubt. He believed that any gentleman t (
at all conversant with tic branch of law w
learning, which relatesto impeachment,muft t c
know that impeachments have always been , r
founded on official documents, or upon cir- 0
cumftances of notoriety, and not upon facts n
found as oefore a Grand Jury. In this in- []
stance they had conceived the letter of Mr. t ]
Blount fufficiently authenticated, in the
communication of the President.
He was sorry that the measures which 0
the Executive had taken in this business, t ]
should "have been censured, even by infinua- b
tion. Mr. Si said,. he had read the opinio* p
•of high law authority, which had been ob- ti
tained by the Executive. When he> did t,
this, he thought lie was giving proof of the c
honourable motives of the Executive. In- t
formation had been given to the Executive,
which, on the firft blush, shewed designs c
against the peace of the United States. It
was the duty of the President' to preserve f
the peace of the" United States. It was g
natural and right for him, therefore, to take f
the opinion of those peifons who were best r
qualified to direst him what course would c
be be ft to be pursued. Thei'e gentlemen t
had given it as their opinion that the proper {
way of proceeding would be by impeach
ment, and, in effeft, that the President had ,
no more to do with it, but that it should be ,
turned over to the proper branches of Gov- ,
ernment. In corifequence the President had
communicated more to them, than he had ,
done to the Senate, as the original fetter of •
William Blount was sent to them, as evi
dence upon which they were to found their
charge. The President did not direst them
to impeach ; but had laid before them
the fads, with the opinion of the law offi
cers.
Mr. S. conceived that the conduit of the
President had been ftriftly proper. He
would pass on to the constitutional doubts
which had been expressed. It waS acknow
ledged that there, was no reftriftion upon
the right of impeachment ; but his col
league thought that something like a rfftric
tibu flight be gathered from the 4th clause
of the 2d article of the Constitution, which
! he had quoted. It was to be observed, that
■ this article was found in that part of the
Couftitution wlrich related Only to the Ex
ecutive department of government. This,
he took it, was a good reason why this rule
should not be taken as a rule in the present
■ cafe ; but there was another clause which
' spoke of disqualifying persons from ever
, filling any office in future, which was a
■ greater power than that under the Execu
-1 tive department. If the conftruftion which
: his colleague had put upon the Constitution
) with refpeft to impeachment, was the true
f one, an officer of Government would not be
t brought to trial after he had resigned, as he
could not then be removed from office,
t His colleague had produced another arti
, cle of the Constitution, which confined the
, ' punishment under an impeachment. This,
b Mr. S. said, was meant to guard against any
1 difgraceful excefsof governmental venge
f ance, or party venom ; because it went on
- to fay, that if the offence was/within ordi
nary crimes, it might be prosecuted and
punished in the fame way as if an impeach
ment had not taken place.
Impeachment was then to be ccinfidered
9 as for the purposes Of the State, distinguish
ed from the general purposes of society.
5 If it had been intended that the power of
J impeachment should he limited in the man
-1 ner supposed by his colleague and the gen
ii tleman from Virginia, it would have been
a so exprefled, as in the Constitution of Penn
sylvania ; they had spoken on this fubjeft
1 in a way not to be mistaken, as they ex
f prefsly said who were liable to impeachment,
» and what offences should be impeachable.—
- And if it had been the intention of the
y Constitution of the United States, that of
- ficers of Government only should be im
a peached, it would doubtless have been so ex
pressed. But was not the present cafe, that
k of an officer charged with an offence direftly
>• connected with his office, with the official
confidence entrusted to him ? When it was
g particularly his duty to appoint to office, it
I was surely a peculiarly aggravated offence
a to seduce an officer, or to turn friends into
1- enerrtws. What was a Senator, if he was
not an officer of Government ? The Pre
sident, who was liimfelf a branch of the
Government, was allowed to be an officer
58 of the Government, and surely a member
of one of the blanches must also be an of
ficer.
e, As to the form of proceeding necessary
I'd to be taken 011 this occasion, he would state
what the opinion of the Committee was as
r- to this matter. They supposed it would
be firft proper for that House to determine
that the gentleman in question fho'jld helm
peached. This being done, that a mem-Wr, „
of that House should go to the bar cf the
Senate, and impeach the person, in the name
of the House, and of the people the
United States, an;} Hate that the House of
Rejarefeniatives will proceed to draw out
ipeci'iic articles of charge against him. Ac
cording to the cafe, they require that he
(hall be fequeftred from "his feat, be 'com
mitted, or held to bail. When this is done,.
a*Committe.G will be appointed to draw ar
ticles of impeachinfnt.
. The reason, Isn S. said, why forne steps
should be taken at prefeht was, that means
should be taken to secure lhp;pei)'on of the
offender, either by confinement or by baiL
since it was tfie op in La of the law ofli;*ert.
of Government that' he could not be arrest
ed by ordinary proceis. He could not be;'
arretted by the Senate ; they could fend
for him (as he imderftocd they had done)
by the Sergeant at Arms, to take his feat
in the House but when the House ad- „
journcd, they had no further power over
him, until an impeachment was made against '
him.
Gentlemen said there was no danger cf
escape. If it were not improper to ft ate
what hpd taken place out of doors, it might
be said, tkat there had already been an at
tempt at an escape. Besides, if no investi
gation were now to take place, how were
they to come to a knowledge of the plot
which gentlemen seemed so desirous to come
to a knowledge of. When they had deter
mined to make the impeachment, and an
oral declaration was made of it to the Se
nate, when they were reacjy to go home, —
they might go, and exhibit the charges, a,t
the next session, when they should have had
leisure fully to consider the fubjecL
Mr. Rutledge had no dpubt in his'mind
on the fybjeft ; but he thought it necessary
that the hand writing of Mr. Blount ihould
be proved.He had himielf attendi-fl the
tnfU.oF ail Impeachment which had excited"
th{£attention of the world (he alluded to the
trial of Mr. Hastings) and the order of pro
ceeding was as has been stated. He moved
that evidence betaken of the hand-writing..
The Chairman suggested tht; propriety
of having the bufmefs done in the house.
Mr. Brookes fa;d, Jie should not have
fpokenon the occasion, if he had not heard
gentlemen express wishes to the prefect
fubjeft postponed. For his part, he could
npt tell how gentlemen would be able to ac
quit thetnfelves to their own conferences and
to their conflituents, if they, should refufe to
stay a-day or two to do this business..
Mr. Venable said, that as this was a new
cafe, and, would'be referred to as a prece
dent, they should attend to the form of
their proceedings. He thought the firft
ftep should be to prove the letter. If the
[ committee could not do it, he should wish
the Committee to rife, that it might.be done
' in the house. He did riot think tfodr de
r termination should be postponed ; byt, that
1 if an impeachment was to be entered upon,- 1
1 that it should now be done. lie hid po
" doubt of the truth of the letter ; tut lie
wished it to be duly as hereafter' a
e cafe might occur, in which such a letter
; might be a forgery.
s Mr; Nicholas said, that fo'me gentlemen
'" had spoken upon this question, as if there ■
1 were persons upon the committee who w.'fh
•" ed to exfulpate the perfoa charged [Mr
" Sitgreaves declared, if he was alluded to,
2 tliat he had no such intentjofc,} Mr. N.
h thought he intimated something of the ki id
when he said gentlemen ventured to fay r &c.
lC No member of that committee, he trufled,,
* would wish to screen the offender, and he
') believed no person less than he who_ was.
' c nearly connected with him (meaning,' we
11 suppose, his brother Thomas Blpimt). Mr.
h N. thought it was not fufficieni that the
r President had sent them a letter, which he
a believed to be the hand-writing of William
Blount. If they were to take- this for
h granted, they gave their power gf judging
n over to the President.
16 Mr. N. said he had merely enquired what
ie * would be the confequSnces of a poftppne
ie ment to the next session. He did not think
it could produce any bad effett, qs if the
*" offender were to escape, the final punifhmant
ie did not require the preface, of the man.-
3 > Mr. N. again exprefled his doubt, about the
y constitutionality of the proceeding.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) said he Held
n in his" hand a letter, which he had received
l " from the President of the United-States, la-,
d scribed as an original letter of William
Blount, to be preserved with care; If aay .
member of the committee will fay that lie
d believes the writing to be 'the writipg of
William Blount, it might the save the trou
~ ble of the committee's riling for the pur
pose of having the fact ascertained in the
1_ house.
Mr. Harper thought the committee
11 were as well fatisned as to the fad now, as
they could be when the hand-writing was
proved ; but he denied that the committee
x " had the power of taking evidence of this*
kind. He moved for the committee to rife,
either to examine evidence, or to adjourn.
Mr. Gai.latin wished the-committee to
1 " rife ; but, before it rose, he wished to men
n~ tion two or three ideas, upon which he
x " should wish to have fatisfaction when the
committee Jat again.
: a j So far as relates to the conflitutional que'f
,as tion,' the gentleman frcm Connecticut fMr.
j t Dana) -had" removed a part of his doubts ;
cc therefore, what he fltould mention would
to not relate to that point.
as If he rightly understood his colleague,
re- when speaking of the opinion of gentlemen
he of the law, he said that their opinion was,
:er not only that William Blount was liable to
>er an impeachment, but that the proper mode
of prosecuting him was by impeachmefit.
He had since looked at the opinion, and did
try not find it so ; but that he was liable to im
ste peachment. In jtie -next place, he uiider
as itood him to fay, that Mr. Blount was not
aid amenable to orderly process. He wished to
ine know whether this id& was well-founded,«'•« whether the only mo3s :n \vnich he
c vdd Jc prosecuted was by impeachment.
He wished to know this that he might re
gulate his proceedings accordingly. Hi*
\vil!u\i the business to be gone -into as fully
«'T poflible ; and he truiicd that this mode of
httpeacLmertt was not thrown upon them in
«ir<Vr to prevent the bringing of the subject
Before a court of juflice, and by means
funprefs the inquiry which- he wished to
j.roTeciite. He thought an inzeftigatio'ti of
the plot was of far greater consequence than
the impeachment and of an
individual. If the profeeution and the in-,
quiry were to go on together, it would be
well ; but Ke wished to know whether, if
they entered upon the impeachment, it was
the design to drop every other mode of pro
ceeding.
Mr. M'Dowell hoped' the committee
would not rife for the purpose of proving
the hand-writing of Mr. Blount. He was
acquainted with his writing, and believed it
to be his. As he had this belief, he wished
to come to a determination as soon as pofli
ble. He thought the design a very criminal
one, as it went not only to dellroy the peace
and happiness of this country, but also of
others. He trusted, therefore, that they
fliould take such iteps as should prevent fo
reign mimfters in future from engaging per
ibns to carry into effeft views of this kind.
Mr. Harper wished the committee to
rife'. If the gentleman from Pennsylvania
had known any thing of the. law, he mud
have known, that the courts of justice were
wholly inadequate to the inquiries he had
mentioned. He did not believe this offence
was punifhabte in any other way than by
impeachment. Mr. H. faife it was at pre
sent unnecessary to fay any thing about any
other persons being implicated in this bufi
refs ; he believed gentlemen might as well j
fpait their infinuatfons until they were bet- j
ter acquainted with the fubjecl. He be-
JieVenf flrfan th.>y Vnd rsnd.rhr papers, gen
tlemen A«.ould be convinced the charges
brought against the British minifler were
unfounded. V '
Mr. Brookes wished to know <vhether
they could proceed to impeach a man if he
prefent.
Mr. 1)A vA said, when this fubjeft was
under debate with closed doors, the secreta
ry of slate was present, and when it was
doubted whether the publication of these
papers might impede the profeeution of ah
inquiry into the business, they were informed
by him that such Reps were taken as that"
the publication of the papers could not have
a bad effeft.
The committee rose, and obtained leave
to fit again.
It was proposed that the Speaker should
proceed to take evidence as to the hand
writing of the letter of William Blount.
The Speaker suggested tTie propriety of I
calling in a magistrate, as he had no power
to administer an oath, except in the cafq of
, qualifying the members of that house.
Mr. Lyon moved that the Speaker be
authorised to administer an oath On this oc
casion.
The question wa3 put and negatived 53
to 29.
Judge Keene, in the mean time coming
into the house, a motion was made and car
ried, that he be requested to admipifter the
oath to Messrs. Macon, M'Dowell, .Grove,
and Baldwin, which was accordinoly done,
and they gave their teftimoney as to the re*
ality of the hand-writing as stated yesterday.
FRIDAY, JULY 7.
Mr. D. Foster moved a resolution for"
an adjournment on Monday.
Mr. Havens moved to amend the reso
lution by infecting Saturday. '
This amendment, after some cqnverfation,
was negatived jo to 23, and the original
rpo'tion was carried without a division.
The order of the day was moved on the
bill for the relief of major Thomas Lewis.
The house went into a committee on the
fubjeft, and reported the bill without a
mendment. It was ordered to be engrofTed
for a third reading, yhich it afterwards re
ceived and paiTed.
Mr. Sitcreaves moved to go into a
committee of the whole on the report of the
committee on the confidential communica
tion of the Prefiden't of the United States on
Monday last.
The Speaker said, before the house went
into a committee of the whole on this fub
jetl, he would read a letter which he had
just received. He read a letter from Tho
mas Blount, requesting to be excused from
voting on the question which so nearly con
cerned his brother.
He was excused.
The house then went into a committee
of the whole on the resolution yesterday re
ported, proposing an impeachment of Wil
liam Blount, when it was agreed to without
debate or division. The house took up the
resolution, and also agreed to it in fame
way.
Mr. Sitcreaves moved, " that a mem
ber go to the Senate, and at the bar of that
house impeach William Blount, in the name
of this houfej and of all the people of the
United States, and to inform them that they
will, in due time, exhibit articles of impeach
ment against him, and make good the
fame."
Mr. Gallati v said, he was not well ac
quainted with the business ; but he; did not
think it would be right to on and im
peach at once;, before they saw what articles
of impeachment were to be preferred. He
thought it would be best firft to appoint a
committee to prepare the articles of im
peachment, and present them to the Senate,
at the fame time that they sent them their
determination to impeach.
Mr. Sitgkeates said, that, the mode
which he proposed, was the fame which was ]
praftifed in the cafe of Mr. Hailings. Mr. 1
Burke went up to the house of Lords and ;
impeached him in words similar to those now 1
proposed to be used. Some time afterwards 1
the articles of impeachment having been 1
drawn, Mr. Burke went up to the 1
house of Lords and exhibited them. Mr.
■ 3. spoke itflb of a work lately publifheci, ill
, continuation or judge Blackftone's Com
mentaries, which had a chapter on parlia
mentary impeachment, and pointed out
this as the proper mode of proceedure. He
had also looked into the proceedings on the
i trial of the earl of Macclesfield, and found
: the fame course was taken. It was true,
1 that in the cafe of a public officer of the
1 state of Pennfylvar.ia, which perhaps his
colleague might have in his eye, the articles
of impeachment were exhibited at the fame
1 time that the impeachment was made.
Mr. S. thought, however, that there was
: a good reason for not doing more at this
time. If a Committee were to be appoint
i ed to prepare the fpecific charges against
• Mr. Blount, it would create considerable
delay, and it wCmld be proper that rmmedi
: ate measures should be taken, in order to
; secure the person of Mr. Blount. Besides,
i at present, the only evidence of this myfte
: ; rious business, was the letter of Mr. Blount.
1 Measures were taken to procure further evi
• dence ; but it could not be got till some
time hence. When this was got, it might
| considerably develope the plot. At present,
every thing, was conjecture. In every point
of view, therefore, he thought it would be
best to observe the usual mode of proceed
ing in similar cases.
Mr. Gal latin said, if his memory was
right, all the fpecific charges brought a
gainst Warren Hafttngs, were firft agreed to
by the House of Commons, before impeach
ment was made.
There was one thing, however, fell from
his colleague, which would seem to make
the mode proposed desirable. Mr. G. said
he had considered the question which had
been agreed to as a mere question of form,
and that thev fhou'/l have, gone on to exhi
| bit articles of impeachment; but it appear
j ed from what had fallen from his colleague,
that the articles of impeachment were not
intended to be exhibited till next feflion.—
If this were the cafe, he thought it was per
fectly righ* in wifliing to present the im
peachment in general terms. Till now he
thought it had been the intention to have
gone further.
Mr. Harper believed it would not be
proper for the House to stop in the present
stage of their proceeding. He thought
the proper mode of* doing the business was
that recommended by Mr. Sitgreaves.—
Having come to a resolution to impeach,
the Senate should be immediately .informed
thereof, as they could then take measures
accordingly. It was not necessary at the
fame time to exhibit the particular charges.
They might afterwards determine whether
they would exhibit the fpecific articles of
charge during this feflion, or at the next.—
He thought the charge might now be made ;j
and if any additional fa&s appeared before
the next feflion, which might make addi
tional charges necessary, they might then
be made.
Mr. Sitcreaves believed his colleague
might be right with respect to what took
place on the trial of Mr. Hastings. He
had not the particulars of the parliamentary
proceedings on that business before him.—
He had those in the cafe of the Earl of
Macclesfield, which were as he had stated.
All that he contended for was, that having
taken the resolution to impeach, it becartie
necessary, of course, that the resolution
should be communicated to the Senate. In
no instance had the articles of impeachment
attended the oral communication. After
it had been made, the House could deter
mine whether th*. fpecific articles should be
drawn now, or at the next feflion.
Mr. Go.idok said, there might be differ
ent modes adopted in cases where the per
sons accused were not members of the Le
gislature. In the cafe of lord Strafford»he
recolle&ed, that in half an hour after the
vote pafftd resolving to impeach him, he
was taken into execution.
The question was put and carried with
out a division.
Mr. Sitcreaves proposed also the fol
lowing : " That the said member do demand
that the said William Blount be sequestered
from his feat in the Senate, and they
take order for his appearance to answer to
the charges which be exhibited against
him."
Mr. Venable thought they had gone
far enough, and .that they should leave it to
the Senate to take such measures as they
should think proper with respect to displa
cing their member from his feat. If the re
solution were, however, adopted, he wished
the word suspended might be used rather
than fcqiuliercd.
Mr. Sitgreaves thought the word fy
nonimous. He had used fcqucjlercd, because
he found the word used in the books.
Mr. Harper thought the motion right
in substance ; for though the Senate had
the power of displacing their member from
his feat ; yet the talcing order for his ap
pearance to answer the charges brought
against him, should be done from the appli
cation of the prosecutor, as in ordinary ca
ses.
Mr. Sew all thought that each House
was the best judge of the condutt of. its
own members, and to require the sequestra
tion of Mr. Blount from his feat was not
necessary. He believed the Senate were at
that moment taking measures for expelling
him from-his feat, any interference of theirs
on that fubie£t was therefore wholly unne
eeffary.
Mr. Nicholas was of opinion that in
following tpo closely the practice of Great
Britain with refpeft to impeachment, they
should be lead astray, as the punishment con
sequent upon the eonvi&iou of an offender
was very different in the two countries. In
Britain, an offence might reach the life of a
person, whereas in this country, the extent
of the punishment, was removal from office,
a,nd difqualification for the future. For his
own part, therefore, lie did not fee any oc
casion for confinement of the person, ex
cept it were necessary to examine him by in
terrogatory.
Mr. Harper said it was certainly nreef.
. fary tf) fecurc th-- of the' cS'or.der,
otherwise he coult? n.ot.W b.oxigiit to trial •
since it was a maxim jh \.t to be d"p/irte.d
from that a pcrfon cou'd not be tried.in his
absence. "
Mr. Sitgreates was of rhe fame opi
nion.
Mr. Venable agreed with Mr. Nicholas,
that the difference of punilhment cor.fcquent
upi.-n trials by impeachment was pot fuffi
ciently attended to. He did not think that
the doftrine was founded, that a man could
| not be tried in his absence. It would be
an unfortunate conclnlion, that effectual
Iprocefs could not be had a man bc
caufe he was absent.
Mr. Kittera said the gentleman last up
was certainly mistaken in faying that a man
might be tried in his absence.
it would be belt to purftle the usual mode
on similar occaiions.
Mr. Gordon infifled upon the right
which that houte had to require the Senate
to sequestrate Mr. Blount from his feat, and
that they should hold him to answer the char
ges to» be exhibited again ft him. If this
were not the cafe an offender might go on
so execute his purposes to the great injury
of the country, before, he was expelled from
his feat or held to bail.
Mr. Sewall had no idea that it was ne
cessary to fequefler Mr. Blount from his feat
in order to hold him to appear to the char
ges to be exhibited against him ; though he
conceived it necessary to hfrld him to bail,
as no trial could take place except he was
present.
This proposition was put and carried 41
to 30.
Mr, Sitgreaves was appointed to >vait
upon the Senate, to carry into effect the a
bove proposition. t
The Speaker read a note which he had re
ceived from a member of the Senate inform
ing him that feats were prepared sos- the
reception of the members of that hcufe, in
cafe they chose to atteni} the business then
before the Senate [which war the question
for expelling Mr. Blount from his feat, op
posed by the cou'nfel of Mr. Blount, viz.
Messrs. Dallas and Ingerfol. J
Mr. Dent moved that when the house
adjourn, it adjourn till two o'clock. A
greed, and the house adjourned about 12
o'clock, and attended the Senate.
At two o'clock the house re-rffumed its
fitting ; and after Mr. Sitgreaves had made
a report of his cojnmiffion to the Senate, the
house resolved itfelf into a committee of the
whole 011 Algerine.bufinefs, and the galle
ries were closed for the remainder of the
fitting.
Saturday, Jnly 8.
A message was received from the Senate,
informing the house that they had agreed to
their amendment to the appropriation bill;
and that they had in confequehce of their im
peachment of William Blount, a Senator of
United States, proceeded to hold him
to bail to appear to the charges to be exhi
bited against Kim, himfelf in 20,000 dollars,
and two sureties each in 15,000 dollars.
By mefTages from the President of the
United States to the two houses it appears
that he has approved and sighed thfc aft for
laying a stamp duty on parchment, vellum
and paper : also the aft allowing full mileage
to the members of the two houses ; the aft
concerning consuls and vice-consuls ; and
the aft to continue in force an aft authori
sing the transfer of the flock Handing to
the credit of certain dates.
On motion of Mr. Macon, the commit
tee of the whole to whom was referred the
bill authorising the President of the United
Statesduring the recess of Congress, to pro
vide armed gallies, was discharged.
Mr. Harper said it would be recolleft
ed that he had laid two rcfolMions on the
table relative to the securing of live oak timr
ber, &c» From the press of business, which
had been continually before the house, he
had not had an opportunity of calling them
up ; and the session being now too far ad
vanced, he gave notice that he should bring
forward the fubjeft early in the next session.
Mr. Holmes fajd that he thought it ne
cefTary, in order to enforce a general com
pliance with the Jaws of the United States,
that they should be printed in the German
language, a« wejl a? in the £nglifh, since
there were very many of the inhabitants of
this country who could read no other. He
therefore proppfed a resolution to the fol
lowing effeft:
Resolved by the Senate and House of Re
presentatives of the United States, that a
number of copies of the laws of this session,
not exceeding 8,000 copies, shall be printed
in the German language, and distributed by
the Secretary of State among the Executives
of the several states, for the information of
the German inhabitants of each state ref
peftively.''
Mr. Lyon thought it would be proper
to pass a resolution of this kind. He did
not know what number might be necessary.
He also thought that some meal'ures should
be taken for a general publication of their
laws in the English language ; at present,
it was mewly. by chance if the people in his
diilrift came to a knowledge of them. He
thought.all laws of general import should be
inserted in every newspaper throughout the
Union.
Mr. Coit said, if they were to promulge
their laws in the Geimaji language/-, it would
be necessary that they should all become cri
tically acquainted with",it, for; if they were
to autliorife any tranflativd, great mifchiefs
would arise from its not being correft.
Mr. Gallatin said, that the weight
of the objeftions urged by the gentlemen last •
up had always been thought fufficient in the r
Legislature of Pennsylvania, in which state
there was a greater proportion of Germans <
than in any other. There was also another
objeftion to the measure. If it were to be
passed, it must be accompanied with an ap
propriation law which the advanced state of
the session would not admit.
The resolution was put and negatived.
Mr. Sitgreaves proposed the follow
ing resolution to the house :
! " Resolved, thlt a Committee be appoint
! to prepare and report articlesof impeach
ment against IVilliam Blount, a Senator of
the United States impeached by this house
of High Crimes and Misdemeanors, and that
the fame Committee have power to fit du
ring the-recefs of Congress, and to fend for
persons, papers and records." \
Mr. Gal latin wished a division of the
resolution at the word ml/demeanors.
The firft part was then put and carried.
Mr. Gallatin defiredthe determination
on the second pirt to be postponed till Mon
day. It was a new fubjeft, and he wished
a little time to colder of it. The com
mittee he supposed could in the mean time
be appointed.
Mr. Brookes enquired whether the lat
ter part of the resolution for fending for
" persons, papers and records," should not
be connected with the fxrfl part of the reso
lution.
Mr. Venable said the gentleman last
up might be accommodated by adding the
words in question ; and if, before they ad
journed, it was found necessary that thecom
hiittee should have power to fit during the
recess, that power could be given to them.
Mr. 3itgreaves did not think it would
be proper to pass one part of the resolution
without the other. The house had resolved
to adjourn 011 Monday, and there was little
doubt that the other branch of the legisla
ture would agree to it. If the committee
should be appointed to report articles of Im
peachment at this session, it wouljJ be found
that it would require more time than he be
lieved Congress would be inclined to give to
it : for if prepared, they must also be exhi
bited ; and if exhibited the Senate. wc«ild
think it necessary to proceed to aft upon
them. In this View of the fubjeft, great ad
vantage might arise from the committees
having" leisure to pursue enquiry into the
plan, so as to devclope the mifchkf during
the recess of Congress.
Mr. Venable said the objeft of gentle-
JTien feeined to be mistaken- They wished
merely to jiave a little time to consider of the
fubjeft. He had doubts whether it was in
the power of the house to authorize a
committee to fit during the recess.
Mr. Siegreaves did not wish to hurry
the business.
Mr. Rutledge had no objeftion to de
ferring the vote till Monday ; but he tho't
it absolutely neceflary to empower the com
mittee to fit during the recess. This was
according to British precedent. It was the
plan also upon which two different impeach
ments had been condufted in the State of
South Carolina. He thought the reason in
this cafe very ltrong ; the objeft was not on
ly to bring the charge home to the person
impeached, but to bring forward all the
persons concerned in this plot. Indeed the
articles of impeachment must be founded, in
a great measure, on information which was
to be difcovcred by this inveftigati»n. He
trusted, therefore that this power wonld be
given. '
Mr. Gallatin said he was in no want
of precedent on this occaiion. He was a
member of a committee of impeachment in
the state of Pennsylvania, where fimihir mea
sures were adopted ; but he was of opinion
that thishufinefs had bean already too much
hurried, and that some of the lleps taken
would have been better taken, if they had
had more time. He wiihed, therefore, to
consider upon this propolition till Monday.
Gentlemen who brought forward the mea
sure were doubtless ready to vote for it ; but
he trusted they would allow others a little
time. j
Mr. M'Dowell wished a committee to
be immediately appointed, and the charges
made, because there might be at present
persons in the city, wbo could not be exa
mined during the recess of Congress.
The words " to fend for persons, papers
and records," were to be added to the form
er part of the resolution, and the latter .part :
was postponed till Monday.
Meffrs.Sitgreaves,Baldwin,Dawlon,Dana
and Harper were appointed a committee for
preparing the articles of impeachment.
Mr. Harper said, that though he did
; not intend to bring forward the fubjeft of
purchasing timber, andproviding naval yards
thi» felfion, he wished the house to enter in
to a resolution which he thought would be
proper in the mean time. He offered one
to the following effeft :
" Resolved that the President of the U
nited States be requested to profecute«and
cause to be laid before this house, early in
the next session, information refpeftiug such
land furnifhed with live oak timber, as may
bepurchafed for the use ofthe United States,
and also of such timber as may be purchased.
Without the land, and also refpefting proper
fcites for naval yards, a~J to state the pro
bable expence of such land and timber, and
of -proper fcites for naval yards." \
This resolution was supported by the mo
ver and Mr. Swanwick, and opposed by
Messrs. Macon, J. Williams, and M'Dow
ell; and without taking aquellion, the house
being very thin, a motion was made and
carried about one o'clock to adjourn.
Monday, July 10, 1797.
A meflage wis received from the Senate in
formiug the house what had been done with re
fpe<s> to governor Blount j that they, had agreed
to their resolution for an adjournment of the
two Houses this day ; and that they had post
poned the conllderatiipn of rtie bill'for the relief
of Major Lewis till next fefiivn.
On motion cf Mr. Dent, a committee was
appointed to wait upon the President ofthe
United States, in conjunction with a like com
mittee from the Senate, to inform him the two
houses were about to adjourn. The committee
waited upon the President accordingly, and re
ported his acquiescence, and his good wishes for
the fafe. arrival of the members at their several
homes.
On motion of Mr. Sitgreaves, the resolution
entered into some time ag6, calling upon the.
President tor an account ef the quantity of arm
in the pofiefEon of the United States, and at
what places they were lodged, was l'ufpended.
M'. Sitgreaves said he wished to make a re
port upon a fubjeft which would require the
galleries to be cleared; theycontihufrdfhuttill the
House adjourned to the feccnd Monday in No
vember.
P HIL ADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING; July to:
appointments by Authority•
V Smith of S.Carolina, niinifter p!e
nipoteniia.y tr, P o; tugal, vice John Adams
removed to tterhn
Ihcrfji} Bulla I jr. cotiful in Pcrtuejl.
k>cbaid o«a.-ic», conful-gsiieral with the
devand and regency of Algiers.
Charles ilal'of agent f or t!.e
United States initTer the UW of the prefe.it fef.
hon o. Mongrels, relative to the 6th article of
the treaty with G. Britain.
Jeremiah Smith, of Newhamplhirc, to be
attorney of the United States for that diftria,
m the rccm of £dw2rd St. Loe LivermoYe re
ngned.
William Willis, a njiiv- citizen df the Uni
red States, to be thtir consul for the republic of
Venice. '
fiVfi er ', t ' r U ; mercantile honfe
efiabliihcd at G«n»a to be consul of the United.
States tor th»»t republic.
James Leaniitr c£thrart, a citizen of\he U.
btates and many years a priforier In Algiers to
be cor.tul of the United States for tie city and
kingdom ot Tripoli.
William Eaton, a native citizen ef the Uni
tt-c. States (a captain in their a«rny in which he •.
has terved about eight years) .to be consul oi the
United States far the city and Ifitfgdom of Tu
nis. '
William ffort to be naval officer for the itif
truft of Cbarleiton m South Carolina.
PROMOTIONS and APPOINTMENTS.
Dragon.
Stephen G. Simm.ns, Lieu enant, rice Slou h
reiigued.
- lcS Cornet, vice Ball, promoted,
William Tharp. do. vice St.rling, do.
p>'ft Regiment of Infantry.
V\il iam H. lfarrilon, C.ptair, v.ceKingfbury,
promo ed /.Jtli May, 1797.
Nicholas Kofcn rantz, Lieutenant, vice Harri
fon, promoted.
J or, >- Alexander Davidfoc, Ensign, vice Nicho
las, deccalcd.
Lemuel Lane, Ensign, vise Rofertcrantx, promo
ted.
Sennet Regiment of Irrfar.try.
Jacob Kingfbury, Major, vice ShaV lor, refigneJ
Istn March, x 797.
benjamin Rand, lieutenant, vice Lee, resigned
leth March.
Peter P.Schuyler.Enfign, vice Faulkner, declined.
John Whipple, do. vice Martin promoted.
John Vifcher Glen, do. vice Rand, do.
Third Regiment of Infantry.
V* illiam R. Booce,fcnfign-, vice Bodley, r;figned.
Samuel Pnrmele, do. vice Sterling, do.
Fourth Ragimcnt cf Infantry.
Benjamin Lockwood, Captain, vice Eaton.
John Wallington, iieutenant, vice Strother, re-
Cgned xft June, 1797.
Francis Johnson, lieutenant, vice Lockwood,
promoted.
Samuel Crtitchfield, Ensign, vice Dold, reSgned.
| John Campbell, do. vice VValliogton, promoted.
Richard Campbell, do. vLeJohafton, do.
1 Captain Yard late Commander of the /hip
Asia, came to town last evening. The pri
vateer by whom he was taken is called the
Vvngcancc, the fame that captured the ship
Golden Age. Capt. Yard thinks the ha*
left the coall.
F*OM A COB RESPONDENT.
THEATRICAL.
An Afterpice from the pen of Mr. Harwood is
advertised for the benefit of Mrs. Francis. From
our opinion of the versatility of Mr. Haruood's
genius, we deubt not but his talents for writing
are equal to his abilities as a performer ; and the
Savotarde being the firft child of his theatrical
muse, will consequently attract a crowd of Guar
dians, the exercise of whose taste and liberality"
will We a source of applause to the author, and of
gratification te themselves.
For Amlterdam.
Four Friends,
«■*»' * Joseph Glenn, Mailer ;
lail with all coDveniefitfpecd,thegrea-
VV terpart of .her cargo being ready. For
freight or p&ilage apply to the captain oft board,or
JeJJe & Rob. Wain.
J"'y"- dtf
Injur ante Company of North A~
merica.
THE Dividend for the last half year, declared
by the Directors this day, is one dollar on
each (h?re of the Stock of this Company ; which
will be paid to the Stockholders, or their rcprcfen
tatives duly aothorifed co receive it, at any time af
ter the 29th inft.
EBEN HAZARD, Sec'ry.
July ro. w&l'tiith
The Subferiber
GIVES notice to all to whom he may be indebt
e i, that he intends to embark for Europe in a few
days; and that he will not pay any demands which
ftiall not be presented ro hin prior to his departure.
Wm. SMI IH, of South-Carolina. **
No. 104, Spruce-street.
Ph'ladelphia, nth fu'y.
Lailson's Circus.
On TUESDAY Evening, July nth,
FOR THE BENEFIT OF
Mr. RAYMOND,
Will be performed a variety of New Equestrian
Exercises, by Messrs. Langley, Herman,
Sully (the Clown) and Lailfon.
The surprising manoevres of the
H O U L A N,
With the carabine and broad sword ; after which
the fcenc of the DROCK.W ART, in the charac
ter of MQNT-AL-CIEL, by Mr. Lailscn.
The PEDESTAL.
T»He evening's entertainment to conclude by a firft
reprefeatatifin of a HeroicTantomitue
in three aSs, called
Dorothee;
OH,
The Strengh of Love and Maternal 7 enderneft.
Which will bs preceded by
Les Preux Chevaliers.
NEW THEATRE. 1
Lajl Night but one' / v*
Mrs FRANGLS's Night.
On WEDNESDAY Evening, July 12,
Will be presented (|not ailed these two yearsi'a
COMEDY, called '
THE RIVALS.
1 o will b« added, a Muflcai Farce (never
performed) cailcd,
THFSAVOYARD;
Or, The Repentant Seducer.On TUESDAY evening next, the I uii inft.
will be fold by public audlion, at the Mer
chants CoifFeeflouie for account of the cop
terned, being deposited as collateral security.
Sundry Promissory Notes,
Drawn by John Nicholfon in favour of, and
iflilcrftd by DaVid Allifofck The said notes are
all due and hive been regularly protelted lor non
payment. They have been originally given for
a full jad valuable tonfideration—are clear of
any dispute or defalcation and will be received
equal to specie for (hares in the Pennsylvania
Lahd Company and will of cßurfe be a great
tthjeiTt of (peculation.
Approved endorsed notes at sixty days will be
received in payment.
July 6, 1797. *d;t
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for yo.ung Ladies.
Ty US. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
-IVJ. ureand refpefl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refidenceis
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
put|k, fa far from intending to decline her
tfie more convenient accommodation of her
itholar#—Every branch of ufeful and pol.ite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groornbridge and matters excelling in their
refpedtive profelßons.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. simftf
The (ituation is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an eVtenfiye garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have for file at their Jlsre, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer & Son, Pine-Jlreet IVlifirf,
A Quantity of
Madeira Wines
In pipe.* and half pipes
adeira Walnuts and Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Also,
aj Puncheons, second and third proof, Weil-
India Rum, and a feWjPipes of Brandy
They have constantly on hand and for sale,
French Burr and Country Mill Stones of various
files, and a general assortment of Boultiug Cloths of
the best quality, both American and foreign ma
nufacture. The former having proved, from se
veral years experience of a number of millers in
different parts of the United States at least equal,
and in many instances superior to the European
Cloths, we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw
son, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. "He has obtain
ed a patent and exclusive right of making and
vending Boultiug Cloths on his improved plan for a
number «f years, and they are fold only by hini
felf in Lancaster, (late of" Pennsylvania, and by
the fubferibert in Philadelphia.
June 14 d
Ju(t Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality
aoo half lacks do. do.
a few Boxes of Sjices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale hy
IVI LUNGS & FRANCIS,
.m»y 30 Jtf
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
OITU 'TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
O Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—
aud is in every rcfpefl well finilhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Kcppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 31. $
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Market-Jlreet.
MISS CHItrSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that (he has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &c. which (he hopes to be able to
lhew them in a few days.
May »8 foot
C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he
continues to perform all operations on the Teeth sup
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
teeth, in all the various modes of 'fixing—Cleans,
files, regulates, extrafts, and fills decayed teeth with
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at their houses, and will be happy to re
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
68 noith Eighth (mis or at his house. next to the
Black Horse Tavern, on the Frankford road.
Dollars.
Scaling and cleaning 5
Artificial teeth, with pnamel, per tooth, 5
Do. in gold (ocketsor screws 7
Natural teeth with ligatures 7
Do.ongoldorivoryfockets, or gold screws 10
Filing and cutting away decay—each decay 1
Filling with gold a
Do. with lead 1
Ectrafting (to the families who employ him
as dentifl) 1
Do. where not employed %
Tooth powder of his own preparing 1
Brulhes, best London manufacture 25 cents.
Regulating, &c. according to the operation.
*,• C. Whitlock will fell tbe time of a Negro
Man ;—he is honed and fobcr, and has about 5 years
and a half toferve. Enquire as above.
]une 13
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sate,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeifa Calks
A few Quarter Chests best
Trefti HyTon and ) T£AS
Hyson Skin J
Muscovado Sugars in Hoglheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. llof
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhdi
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler?, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lizes
Hazlenuts, in fecks
Whiting }
Copperas f inh , )ds
White Lead ( j
& Spanifli Br«wn J »
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 §•
Foil SALE,.
BRETAGNES in cases
German Checks in do.
Cajhbrick
Elattillas
} Oznafirigs
e Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumtlersin cases
j- Linfesd Oil in calks, &c. &c.
i George Pen nock,
a 103, High-Sfrert.
' J u| y 5- 3-* w
e Now Landing,
Jft Pratt's wharf,
FROM on board tHe Ihip Thomas Clulkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
jncafks
V-4 Ditto in cases '
White Win;* Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Ruridle & Leech.
May t5
Just Imposed,
In the (lu'p Rebecca, from St. Croix,
Prime Sugar ant} Rum
40,000 wt. of Windward Iflanc) Coffee
A quantity of choice Madeira Wine.
James Yard,
South fide Walnut street Wharf.
: June 27. d()t
' VVilf-bel.mrded,
. From on board the ship Adtive, Capt. Blair,from
Hamburgh,
1 io baUs white fluflia clean Hemp
% calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, No. 34.
Tune a 6.
j FOR SALE,
7befollowing Valuable Property.
A VACANT Lot, situated on the east fide of
Third-llreet, between Shippen and Plumb
ftreeti, twenty one feet front by one huudicd feet
deep.
A frame Tenement fifteen feet by nineteen feet,
on the narth fide of Shippen-ftreet betwenn Third
and Fourth-flreets ; the lot is one hundred leet 1
deep, it is paved before the d»or, and great im
provements are making in the street—the above is
clear of ground r«nt and every other incumbrance
—the house lets for thirty seven pounds ten (hi 1-
hng« per anuum.
Aframe Tenement eleven by sixteen feet, on the
well fide of Fif(h-ftreet, between Shippen and
Plumb-llreets ; the lot is ninety fix feet deep, clear
of ovcry incumbrance except a ground rent of one
hundred and ten (hillings per annum ; the houfn
lets for thirty pounds per annum.
ALSO,
A pair of dark brown Catriatje H«r(cs, one of
which is an excellent Saddle Horse.
For further particulars inquire of
Samuel R. Franklin,
No. 100, Lombard-street, corner of Fourth ftt.
N. B. The above property will be fold for part
calh and part dry goods.
June 30. 3aw4w
bamuel & Miers Fifheiy
No. 27, Dock-street,
Have jufl received per Abigail, Babcock, from-
Be-lfast,
IRISH Cambricks, in boxes of 40 pieces'
and 80 patches, each sorted up to gf
ftcrling per yard.
They tave aljb received
7-8 & 4-4 Irifli Linens well alTorted
Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be fold for ready money, or short
credit, on moderate terms ; together with
a general aflbrtment of Spring Goods as
iifual—Alfo,
Hunter's Pipes in boxes
An afibrtment of Queens' Ware in crates
An aflbrtment of Glass Ware in calks and •
crates
T. Growley, Milßngton, Steel
Cargo & London particular Teneriffe Wines
Lisbon Wine of excellent quality
Superior Sherry Wines
Patent Sheathing paper..
A few small baits fine Cloths neatly aflbrt
ed, and two bales assorted to be
fold per package. _
ju»e 9. 3 taw 6w
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Juo. & Co.
No. i Che/nut-Streei,
Haveior Sale
FJFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
(hart credit.
March 6. §
TO"BE SOLD, "
A valuable three story Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it stands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreet. The houl'e is about jo
feet in front en Lodge«lley, and about 42 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth
ftreet, beiflga street which leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Cai ter's«llify ir.to Dock-street at the
horse market. The house con lifts of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rpoms, one of them ferty feet in length, the
other about thirty-'foiir feet, each containing
two fire placss, two parlours and a large kit
chenj with extensive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the east ward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handfpme piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frtme flabfe and dweiliug; house on
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
j£.3lS per annum. To be fold clear of ill in
cumbrances.
For term* apply to . John Clement Stoeker.
April to aawtf
C O T TON.
A few bales just arrived, for sale by
JOHN CLARK, ;
No. 55 North Water Street.
J»ne 10. #otf.
Exfkine ? s View of the War,
JUST PUBUWED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL &Ck
No. 40 South Second, street,
[Price 31 Cent#] : '
4 Ttcw of the Causes and Confequen- i
eet <f ihe prefent'War ivith France., f
• >By. theHonttrable Thomas FasKiKt. *
May 15 $ t
STJTJE TRIALS.
Sold by W. Young, Book feller, No. 5 a, South Se
cond-itrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
th.e impeachment, trial,and acquit
vJ al of Francis Hopkins, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and Jehn Nicholfen, Comptroller Gen
eral—-In one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards. X
dollar?.
W. Yobng has for sale, a general aflortment of
Boohs. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
age, well assorted, and entitled to the drawback if
axported. July 7 _^« 3 t
A Literary Treat.
' 7 U J publifled, handsomely printed on writing
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, xntitled
THE FORES I'ERS, an American Tale ; being
a feqoel to the history ps John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aeries of letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
traufa&ioni in America.
Th« following axtra<sl from the Clavis Allegorica,
stews the principal charafters that are introduced:
John Bull, theKingdotp of England
His Mother, thtCrurchof England
HijWife, the Parjianaent
His Sjfter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
Hi» Mistress, the Old Condition
His Wife, the National ReprefejitationJ
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of §paip
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
, The Franks, the French Republic
1 he Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, pW-Hanrpfliire
John Codline, Massachusetts
Humphrey Plowshare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Cxfar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Penpfylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Wafliington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
f Charles Indigo, Soutb Carolina
George Trudy, Georgia
t Ethan Greenwood, Verinqnt
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro slaves
I Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey"» Ch.ckcns, Jacobins
1 hi# popular and fatirical tifto
i ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bkl
. knap, it hasagrtat (hare of originality and a
. bounds with genuine tumour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chara&erifes those
late political tranfa&ions which have caused so
much uneaiinefs in Anjerica.
Sold by 'H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
. South Second Street, and No. jo, Marke' ftjeet.
, June 16. J
Jay's InftrudtionSi
On MONDAY lajl, was published,
By SNOWDEN M'CORKLE,
No. 47, North Fourth Street,
■ AjiJ to be had ef the principal BOOKSELLERS,
f . . No. V,
Of the Hi/lory of the United States
for 1796, &c.
This ai\d the preceding number prefect the pub
lic with a copy of Jay's Instructions, a per
i; fonnance aniioufly concoaled by the Execmive
from the House of Reprefcctativci, and the con
.) tents of which have,ex<ited the mod anient curio
r> Ct)r -
This numbef likewise contains some fibular and
authentic papers relative to Mr. Alexander Hamil
• tm, late Secretary of the Treafiiry. No greater
; proof pap be given of the value which he has at
f tached to their fitffrtfpm, than the following aaec
dote.
" During the late canvass for the jleclion of a
1 " President, Webder, in his Minerva, gav« a hint,'
i ■" that Mr. Hamilton would be an advifeahle can
" didate. A person in this tity, who chanced to
1 " fee this newspaper, wrote immediately toacor
" respondent in New-York. The letter defirefljiipi
" to put himfclf in Mr- way, and in
1' " form him, that ifWebder Ihould, in future, print
" a fmgle paragraph on that head, the papers refer
" ed to were, instantly.to belaid before the world.
( » Tie mtjftgi wa, delifered ta Mr. Jfiamiltm.'mJ the
" Minerva becameJilent !
June 24 tawiw
LAW BOOKS,
Latcft London and Dublin Editions.
■H. fP. RICE, Bookfellcrs,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals lrpm
London and their spring importa
tion, confiding ef a variety of the latest and mod
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms themoft ertenfive ctjle&ion ev
er offered for sals in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
cortneifticnsiii Dublin, they are enabled tp fell frith
. editions (is they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latcft
publications.
Vefey, juit'rs Reports in Chancery, a v_is.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Report#
in the tipie of Lord Hardwicke ; Kloyer's Probers
Pra<2ice in the Ecdefiaftical Courts ; 1 Barton'-.
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Praflice 0?
the C ou rt of King's EepiJt in Personal Actions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Crnife
on Uses ; modern Reports, I a vols, l.opdon edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice cxperff to receive by the (irft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, andapumbfr of.
new publications.
June a 6.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 3191 High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some tipie pad in prepara
tions for removing into his present house, has
been under thenecetiityof padponinguntil this day
informingthe gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for sale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
ference he hat experienced for lcvcral years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion ever imported iato this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application. T '
June zy. aaw 6w
This Day is Publiihed,
Aud fold by H. & /. Kammerkr, jun. Np.
24, North Third-Jlrcet, also, by Mr. Hsu
sr SirEirzEß, No. 85, Race-Jlreet,
(Price half a Polljr neatly bound)
The Man of real Sensibility ;
Or, The HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISON.
, Founded Ort fail.
! §3" Tha elegant Edition of the Elements of Moral
ity, iu two vols. illudrated with twxnty copper
plates, may also be had as above, price, fall bound
and gilt, two dollars and f)f(f cents.
H&I. K junrs. have on hsnd a of No. 1
and 2, Writing Paper.
, landing
From on board fcltooner Daphne, captain
G. W. Morse, from Htfpanioia,
61 ,00© wt. Sugar,
53,000 Coffee
FOR SALE BY
F. COPPINGER;
No. 221, South Front-street,
Who has also on hand,
Claret in hhds. and cases
Rice
A quantity of Bristol Bottles
A cafe of Cambrics
Cloths and Cafiimeres.
July 5. d6t.
NOTICE.
ANY of the citizens Who may be inclined to ac
commodate Members of with hoard
and lodging during the next feilion, willpleafe
to forward their addfefs, as soon aspoilible, to the
fubferiber, at Congress Hall— Who also fifties to
hear of some ready furnifhed lodgings, with the
use of a ki-cheß. l.ikewifp sf a front drawing
ropm, ell fumi/hed, and two good bed roofjis,
with board for a family, in yvhich there will
be tyvo fetvants. THOMAS CLAXTON.
July 3- 3t
The Commissioners
FR carrying into effect the TWENTY-FIRST
Artifle of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majedy I
and the United States of America, hereby give in
fsrntation to all Persons therein eoncerned, —That,'
in order to terminate all differences, on account of
the losses fudamed by the Citizens of the United 1
States, in consequence of their Vessels and Car- !
goes havipg been taken by the Subje&s of His Cath- i
olic Majefly, during the late between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the laid Article, during Eiohtkin Months,
lrp*i the day flf the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such pcrfops as «ome before
them, Jnoath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in quedion, and also to receive in evidenoe,
all writfen testimony, authenticated in fucji man
ner as they lhall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of tie
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmiffioners Office, Ac. 109, Mulberry
reet, Philadelphia, May tph, 1797.
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second-dreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
drawing tl>e 29th May, FOR
SALp. The price of ticjfets will rife ip propor
tion »! the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five fird drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the I aft day of
drawing.
Cheek Books kept for e*atnination nns regider
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Wadiington, No.
a, and Paterfon Lotteri«s.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing i» the courfc of the summer.
The of a Broker in kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lapi;, &c-&c. tranOniled with the
utmost attention.
Juny tujcf
45,000 pieces of Nankeens
ijo boxes brown Havannah Sugars
Impgrial Hyson Teas
17 tubs Quick Silver
Sail Canvas, Nori a 8
A large afTortment of Nails, sharp and flat points
Queens Ware, well aborted in crates and hhds.
London Particular and 7
India Market | Madeira W.qes
Tenerijle Wine in hhds. and pipes
Bottled London Porter in tierces
Fine Yallow Paint, dry in calks
Writing Slates in boxes and bundles
A boxol Ink Stands and Noie-Preffies
Mancheder Goods in clefts
3 trunks black Sewing Siljc
6 tons of Sheet Lead
Bed Liverpool Coal, and
A quantity of Wiae Bottles
• Fqr Sale by
Philip Nicklin, fjf Co.
Juue 24. 2tawtf
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
Jnft Imported,
In tiejlife Will'mm Penn and Star,from f.oadm, and
now opening by
WILUAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Stofe, No. 134,
Market street
An elegant aflortment ol silk, cotton and thread
Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Gl.oves
Pantaloons, Ice. See.
Likewise, a handsome aflortment of men's,
inen's, and children's falhionable Hats, fuitablcfor
the Season.
A cenfiderable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats assorted in cafes,'intended for .country res
May 22- taw
Yoypg Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the WoodropSims, and far sale jjy
the fiibfcriberi, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haigbi.
June 11. eotf
JOHN CRAIG*
T TAS just imported fconi Rotterdam, via St.
11 Thomas, and far sale on rea AmaWe terms
by the package
PUtjlias Royal .(
Hatrlem Gern>a(j linens
Rouens
Port, and Pi;o Patrt)l Paper
Wafers
Qdifls ,
C)iiets for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
Me has also for Sale,
Befl: Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Tenerifl'c Wine of firft and ftcond
Coffee in Bags and Hogsheads
Jamaica Spirits
Conpefliait Turpentine Soap
Window GJafs
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cottan
Hosiery
Aptil i 3. 4aiv
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoke conlifting of the following
Coast Goods, viz.
-Blur Cloths
Long Claths, 14 punjuai3
Dc>. do. fine
Madia Is Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muliins
WILLING iSt FRANCIS.
March 17. jaw
/Town Lots.
ATOU'rt named BEULA, cne mile square,
being laid, out on the Blacklick Creek, Som
erfct County, Pcnnfylvania, Lots therein of 58 feet
by 125 fyet are now filing at ten dollars each ;
their situation in the town to be determined by
ballot before the firft of August, and dee.ds for the
fame w ill be deliverilby the fuMcriber before the
firlt of Oilober next.
MORGAN J, RHEES.
No. 77, South Second-ltrect, Philadelphia.
The purchasers oflots in Beula have the following
profpe&s of appreciating their property :
X> It is remote from any other town, and fur
roupded by great bodies of excellent land, capable
of producing every kind of grain and vegetables,
and is without doubt one of the bed grazing coun
tries is the United States.
2. Id point of health the situation is not exceed
ed by any on the continent.
3. Besides numerousfprings and runs, of the fin
ed quality, there is a creek for water works (on
which mills are now building) running through the
town,
4. The public road from Philadelphia to Pitti
fenrgji will go through it, \vbich being more level
and nearer than any Other rout, rtiuft become uni
versally travelled 1 aided by the navigation of Ju
niata and Conemaugh, goods may be c* at
. lead 2 or 3 dollars per ewt. cheaper from the for
mer to latter place, than by the old road .thro'
Bedford.
5. Eeing in the centre of a flourilhing fcttle
ment, and taking in the Ihorted portage between
the eadern and western waters, it is likely to be
come a depolit for dores, a manufacturing town,
and a feat df juftiee. Besides the old settlers, up
wards,of one hundred emigrants have fettled in the
vicinity of Beula, since lad Oikober, and many
more have engaged to join them this summer.
6. A Land-Office for supplying aiSual fettleri
with farms to a considerable amount, and in vari
ous situations, will be immediately opened in the
town. The proprietors of Und ifi the circumja
cent country act felicited to fend their drafts and
terras of sale, or lealing, to Thomas Jones, Sur
veyor, in Beula, who will give security for any
trust rjpofed in him : with such co-operating aid,
.the progress of (he settlement wii( be the more ra
pidly advapccd and extended to didant towpfhips.
7. A public library for the benefit of the fe«lers,
will be edablifhed in the town, towards hying the
foundation of which, upwards of »»o liwuf.inJ
volumes are already purchased and principally sent
forward. '
8. Two hundred acres of land adjoining the
town, besides lots and fpbfcriptiops;will be applied
to support a minister and preceptor, capible of
teaching the ufeful and liberal arts.
9. After defraying nectffary expeaces, tlie mo
ney arising froip the present sales will be hid out in
public buildings—A place of worlhip, school
houfeand librafy room, are the firft obje&s.
I*. Every profeffional man and mechanic, on
condition of building a house with a done or brick
chimney, andrefiding in it, before the fird of No
vember next, will hi entitled to four lots gratis,
free forever from ground rent. Five and ten acre
out lots may likewise be.obtained on reafonablc
terms.
*.* The two central flreets in Beula are 100
f«t wide, and the qthers 80 feet. Refcrved squares
ond other accommodations mud add to the health
and beauty of the plw-
July 6. jt
the following valuable
Tradts of Land,
TN the county of Glynn and (late of Georgia,
X >vill be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
on the evening of Tuffday the 27th day of June
nfjet, at the Merchants Cqifee-Houfe ir. this ci
ty, unlffs jyevioufly difppfed of by private sale.
ill. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons ofthctown ofßrunfwick,
originally granted to John Howell, and withia.
6 nile&of the Atomic orcan.
ad. 25,000 acres qn the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally gmnted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. jo,ooo acres cn the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road partes through
these lands, which wgre originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the gr.ept Satill*river,
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally grated ten
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, fiirveyor, and from Major
Hopkins now reiidmg in Philadelphia, that the
body of these lands are not thirty miles from
tfie ocean, apd principally within tide water ;
that the Alatamijha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large
vessels within ten miles of them ; that they are
chiefly firlt rate pine lands, producing tirpber
equal in .quality to any in the date of Georgia,
polfeging the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementioned certificates, together with
the parents, drafts, pndother papers refpetfipg
the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the pofieffion of the fubferibers apd may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 4i Mulberry Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third calh, the remaining two
thirds in good negotiable endori'd notes, paya-
Ms in three and si* mpjjths after the tie; a
conveyance to be made to each pyrchjfrr qn tlje
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from hijn which becomes firlt due.
THOMAS FIT'ZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKifc,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
Muficql lnftrument Manufattory y
JVfi. 167, 4irch Street.
HAMPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
. uo:-board, pier table and square piaso.lprre
maker from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
aod-hfipes that by his assiduity and attention to ev
ery bri M?f b of iis business, tosjtr.it a continuance
of their iavors. Piano fsrtcs madeonth« newelc
and mod plans, wi;h pedals, patent,
iwell, and French harp dop, which fie flatters
( hirnfclf will u e found an trial by unprejudiced
ju4s«s, to be equal if not fuperipr to any import
ed, and twenty .per c Sfl t cfyfcflsr. Any indru
ment purchafcd of him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will cuch^n^e.
N. B. All kinds of Mpfical indruments made,
tunid, and-rejwiice! with.the grcateft' accuracy,
di(p.itch, and on the mod,reasonable term*, tir
ready money opjy.
.Second bird Forties taken in.exchange.
■ May if .
ypk sale; C y :
By &imon Walker,
No. 122, SOUTH Fourth-STR.£ET,
GOLD and silver Watches
common and patent
Tin Elates, She# Jrop
Bar and sheet Lead i
Copper dieets and.bottQtm '
TaUnton Ale
Ravens Duck
in cases
Wool Cards
Claret V/ine and Pcricr Botties in iunu>ers.
J ul y i- ' cojw