/ •
of the Bnttetl States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
*
Numle* 1388.] " SATURDAY EVENING, FEBRUARr 18, 1797. [Volume XI.
«• "1 1 ■ ■ ■ 1 1 ~ • ,
For Freight" or Charter,
QHE is a good vessel, fails fad, carri«
1 ' U about 500 barrels, and will take in
Freight to proceed Coaftwifc, or for the Weft ladies.
For terms apply to jimanufl >iaward, mailer, on
at Arch-street wharf, or to
ISAAC HARVEY, J*n,
N» 5 South Water.street.
February 14
ro* SALI, ON ROASt »A-»
A few coils Cordage,
CANDLES, and
SHOES.
~ CUSTOM-HOUSE, February 13, *797.
Sales at ~n.
AT the Custom House, on Monday next, the' loth in
stant, at 12 o'clock, for payment of duties, having
remained lp the stores beyond the time limited by law, the
following goods ; viz.
IH A tub of Brass Kettles
THI Seven boxes different specimens of Minerals
One box Playing Cards
P S One ditto Paper
T C
I & 2 Two boxes Pamphlets
W B Three caflcs Wine
A box Mill Saws
1 M Six poekets Cotton
1 C M One box Pamphlets
I§TX a 3 Three boxes Books
W M I & I Two boxes ditto
T D 202 One bale Girth Webb
One box Pamphlets
T W One cafe Woman's Silk Shoes
One chest containing Cloth
One bundle Bags
M$R No. 4 One trunk Worsted Tassels
One bundle supple jack Canes
One box Candles
One ditto Soap
•O Two small boxes Linens
The Goods may be viewed at any time in the morning
of the day of sale. (Signed) SHARP DELANY,
February 14 §tM Collector.
A Quantity of Brandy/
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glifs Tumbler?, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lizes
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting
wELd £
& Spanish Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 $
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thoufanc!
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6feethigh, growing to 18feet.
Hi— »iti weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank lame days forty biiuhasjtif ppx'ejy.
drawing the corks with his trunk.
' He is perfeflly inoffenfive j travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an hour, and is the grsateft curiosity
«ver brought to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-flreets, at
z quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a doll ir will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
■will permit.
December 3X d
forsaleVby
Philip Nicklin & Co.
15'"""} * * •* »
17 Tubs Quicksilver
2 Chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chefls lUanchefter Goods, well affortei in Cor
duroys, Thigkfets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &C.
3 Trunks black Sewing Silk
180 Crates Queen's Waie, well affortfd
IO Tons Sheet Lead
Nails slotted flat and iharp points
London Partiular "J Madeira wine in pipes and hogs-
India Market j heads
40 Pipes afid 10 BogfheadsT*raerifft Wii*;
IO Hogsheads chaice Port Wine
7 Tier ces Snake-Root
26 Calks yellow Paint
9 Boxes and 12 Bundles writing Slates
I Box Ink Stands and Note PrelTes
14 Bales Sail Canvass allbrted, No. I to 3
■February T I. __ mw&ftf
, -RICE.
180 Tierces Rice for Sale by
Samuel Breck, Jun.
• No. 89 South Third Street
LIKEWISE,
or 2® Pocket® COT TON, and
A Quantity !.H. SHERRY WINE,
tjo Cases SW££ l OIL, See. &c.
Fcbruaiy n tth&fCt
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to al'certain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stu.c-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland in or and came into
this Country, ('tis fuppefed to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be Hving or dead. As this intelli
gence isof theiiiirheft importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
' December 31. w& f ■am
Bank of Penni'ylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Direflors this day, a dividend ol
sixteen dollar* on each lhare was declared for the la II
6 montht, which will be paid to [the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
Jan. 3. dtf.
A MANUFACTORY for Sale.
A valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, fituau
in » convenient part of the city ; the works almott new,
on an entirely original conftruflion, and built of the Left
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Perfom
whowifhto purehale, are requeued to apply at No 473.
South Second Street. September 13. i t t tl
For Sale, . 1
At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette ef the
United States,
A FEW COPIES OF
" An account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States, for the year
mr. Pickering's Letter,
This Day Publiflied, C
AND FOR SALE BT THE EDITOR,
Pricc three eights of a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinck- f
ney, Mlnifter Plenipotentiary of the United States, to F
tke French Republic. February 9.
Red Clover Seed.' e
FreCfi red Clover Seed of the bell quality, in bags of T
5 bufhelj each S
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate use T
Teneriffe wine is pipes, haglheads and quarter caflcs F
Ditto do. of firft quality, for the use of private 1
families
Coffee in hoglheads
Jamaica spirits
ConnedUput soap in small boxes
Window glass and Spanilh fegars, and
Two tninks of best patent, plain and ribbed silk and
cotton hosiery, forfaieby
JOHN CRAIG.
February i. wff&mtf
Le Breton, 1
SURGEON-DENTIST, P
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, !»te Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortujent of every thiag Beceffary
to be used forthe
Preferyatkm of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
I'weetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
also furniihes Brulhes and foft Sponges.
*He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-ftrect. C
November z6. tts *•
~' LAND IN G, f(
AT Walnut-street wharf, from oniboard the (hip Peg- t ,
gy, captain Elliott, from Bnardeaux,
VIN DE GRAVE, or White Claret, in Hhds ai)d Or.
Cafkb
RED CLARET, in Hhds
Ditto in cases of 24 and 30 bottles each *
Green and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chests
For sale by £
Rundie csf Leech,
Nn. 9 Walnut-street. N
February o mwftf
Davis's Law Book-store p
No. 313, KIGH-STREET. ®
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his pnofeflionil friends, A
and the Gentlerhen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that hia late importation of POOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a tingle volume to an entire fir p
brary, without soy advance upon his former exceeding lo*
pnecs, which forfeveral years nave ui to dUiinguiftied a
manner recommended them to notice.
F»ir»tc<i Ctri.a4ogiJcs ite cifietfive
tion cf the latest Englirh and I rift* Editions ever imported
into this country, are publiihed, and will be delivered grans
on application. v
Ofders addreflcd to G. D. in writing from any distance
(hall be punctually aucnded to.
A 6umber oi 1 RUNKS for Sale. a
ALSO, TO BE LET, t ,
A convenient near Market Street Wharf.
ov.B. Ui^f3«g
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
<xchang«d for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefiiut* j
Hreet, where a corre«fl Book is kept for public c
iiifpeition. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale ©r ex
changed for prizes diawn iu the Waihington Lottery, oi J
which the 60th and 6lit days r«tur*s are receiv«d,
C 5" Business of a Broker carried on as usual.
January 12. . ttstf
* To the Benevolent.
THE Subscriber having rented that well known tav- -j
ern house, on Silver Springs, Cumberland county, | c
on the great road leading from Philadelphia to Fort Pitt,
wl"ich he had completely lurniflied for the accommodation j
of travellers, but which unfortunately, by accident caught ,
fire about 12 o'clock in the morning, the 3d of Novem- „
ber last, and in the fpaxe of Ine hour was totally confum- a
ed with all the furniture, wearing apparel, store» of li
quor», &c. to a very large amount, attended with the me- 0
lancholy loss of a daughter about twelve years of age, v
who only furviveda few hours after the fire ; his wife al
so difahled ; and other jof his family much hurt; he is t
now rcduci.fi to an unhappy and destitute fitua ion—he a
therefore brgs leavt to faKcit lome relief from a generous
public. The following gentlemen are pleafeu to undertake p
; the trouble to receive fubferiptions for his benefit: vij.
Samuel Riehardet, Merchants' Coffee-Houfe ; James a
rhowpfon, Indian Queen ; George Irwin, CrofsKeys, in
Fourtk-ftreet, and John Dunwoody, Spread Eagle., High- 1 t
street. DAVID BRIGGS. a
Philadelphia, Februjry 14 tth&ftMj
Tli'e other Primers are requefled to publish the above. t
NOTICE. ' r
Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
1. North-Weftem Territory, heretofore advertised j
in the several public papers, will commence this even-
ing, atthe City Tavern to be continued from day f,
to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not sooner
fold,
lanuarv 4 4
A PARCEL OF VZRY fltig
St. Croix bugars and Rum, J
JAMAICA SPIRITS, and j
LACUIRA HIDES,
For Sale by
Feb. 7—}iw JAMES YARD.
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Phuaihsswia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from £
London, 1 large afibrtment «f WARRANTED j
IVA i CHE S, eenfifting of horizontal, capp'd and >
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecouds, of Superior
workmnnfhip and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Cold Watches ; capp'd &jeweU'd, capp'd,
fcconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames; eight day and thirty hoar, brafi g
work., icc. 1
Dccembet 22, 1796. dam
, Frejh Garden, Grass and Flo wer-Seeds-,
Roots, &c. &e.
This day lauding Irom the {hip Eagle, captain Fofu.ci,
from London,
FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Sccond-ftreets,
A mop capital and txtenfive sfjfortment of J
GARDEN, GRASS ami FLOWER-SEEDS, j
P - ITS, See. &c.
Among which ar«,
Five Jcisdl Afparagujj Three kinds Cresses £
Four Berecolej Twelve Oni»n J
Twenty-five Beam Thirteen Radilh I
Six Beets i-ifteen Turnip I
Elevem Broc6liHftee* Peas I
Twenty-fit Cabbage' Si* Savoy '1
Six C'4rrnt Four Parsnip I
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon C
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce 1
Tea Cucumber 1
, Common and lemon Thyme 1
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley 1
, Pot Marygold Pot Marjoruai I
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots I
Rape See J Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucent*
Red and white Clover Timothy, See. See.
With a curious coiled ion of tile most esteemed
FLO WE Et-SKEDS and ROOTS, l
Being the moil o*teiilive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frefli and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17 $
For Sale,
By the Subscribers —In PENN-BTREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLJNGS
Nov. 30 w&f
A convenient stable
Situateo in Laurel Court—l Stalls therein to be rent
ed, with the privilege of using the Hay-Loft.
Eight years ot' the time of service of iWEGiIO MAN •
for sale. He is accaftomed to huiile work, and capable of
taking care of Horses. Enquire of the Piimer.
February II f 1 thtf '
WA NTS A .PLACE.
AWomui who can be well recommcedcd for honesty, so
briety, and good temper. She vviihes to engage as charti
bermatd, or fempttrefs for low wages on condition fee may
retain a young Child with her. Enquire at Kj. *8 Scuth
Front fticct. February 16 d
C A.M ILLA,
Or A Picture of Youth.
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
prised in Ave volumes, at half a dollar each, payable
on delivery —-Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
Bull.
CONDITIONS.
I. Handfoo»e, neat type, perfedll) new, i» em
ployed.
JI. A volume, stitched in blue paper, is intended
to be publiftied every 4 weeks, till the five are com
pitied; the Evftand feoond are come to hand, and the
tMa ts hourly expelled. Sublcnprions are received,
and Books may £>e hid of'J. OIiMROD, No. 41,
Clielnut-llreet- t
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Bytney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the laurels ihe has already acquired in the
literary world. The strength of imagination and ele
gance of style, difplayeu.in Evelina and Cecilia, will
iufficiently lecommend to every reader of tails and
judgment, the peiufat of Camilla.
It may not l?e improper to add, that the Queen of
England, after having perused tljis interelling publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thouknd
pounds flerling, as a teftimouy of her approbation of
tie work.
January mwf
Samuel Richardet
QESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
2 V Merchants, that he has thi6 day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with all the
daily papers publifbed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
' ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be ragularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, loupes. Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Freuch Liquors; together with the usual refrelhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, ot single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly Jcspt for convepiency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at tha bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifiled, and
the utmost attention paid te cleanliness, and every other
reqnifite.
£s* Samuel Richardet will be happy to-receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude f®r their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing 011 his part (hall be wanting »o pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguilh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Bourdeaux Brandy, in Pipes,
OLD Claret, in casks
Ditto in cases, ot an excellent quality
Lisbon Wine in pipes
Fourth "'proof Holland Gin
Rum in hogfoeadsand tierc.es,
Raiiius »» kegs
Best Bolton Beef and Pork
Halifax Salmon ia baireh
Kiiflia Sail Duck
JRavefaS Duck
A few Feather Beds
One 11 *-2- inch Cable > , . . ,
One, >. do. I 'Mfath.au long each
Sperm a c*ii Candles
Mould and dipt Tallow ditto
A few barrela Tanners Oil, and
A small invoice of India Goods,
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co
A L SO,
Just received from Marseilles, a small invoice of Silks, Silk
Stockings, an aflortincut of Perlanoery, and a few cases oi
the bell Olive Oil.
February
, . MAS. G'RATTAN
RtfpeilfuHy informs her friends, and the public In
genera!, that en Tuefqay the lothday of January,
she propofts opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftreet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to itfit per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from ifip to lojste per yard
Fine Coifaes
Tambour'»i Bock Muslins, fr im 13/9 to IT/per yard
l»dia Muslin, from tf/3 to ;5/ p-: yard
1 Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 tp 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs ftoin 5/3 to io/"6 p«r bdkf.
Muslin color'd nud bofder'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerehiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from lofi to ufil
Pocket Handlioichiefs
Cambric, from ij/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
Huckabuck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hole, from to 13/ per pair
Dimity from to 6/1 1
Men's Silk Hose
Tainbonr'd mnllin Hindkerchie's from 11/ ii to •y»
Irish lineni lor Gentlen en's Shirts, from 5/5 to
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready mad*
Linsn, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, <fcc. &c. v
Houlhold Linen, &c. &c.
| A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-1 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain Ihirt, mad? and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ru(Bed ditto 6 dollars.
A plain Ihirt, made and marked, 5 i-» dollars,
A full ruffled ditto. 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 j-a.
A plain ihirt, made and mark'd, 6 l-» dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
Januarv 13. $
PqnnTylvania Population Company."
NOTICE is hereby given, to such Share-holders a»
as hav« not paid their afleflTments on thpirlhares— to
j pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compi
j- ny, at the Company's Office, No. 53 ilorth Fouith-ftreet,
Philadelphia, l'hcy are further informed, thSt in defiult
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4*h of Fe»
- bruary, inftanr, the several forfeitures will bs ftridly ca
ailed, in conformity to the ai ft article of association.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
* Feb t. 4-,- $3O
1 . '* 1 j
Mahogany and Log\vood. .
A Cargo for Sale on board of the ship Sally, captain
Gelfton, just arrived from Honduras.
Apply to
; PHILIPS, CRJMOND & Co.
j February 9 §
DANCING
TAUGHT BY
MRS. B r R A 7,
Of the Newr Theatre, To Ladic only.
i HP'HINKING it a great advantage for them to have
JL Female Tutor >1) art, pledge* herfelf totheir vpar
e eats and friends to take all poflibie care in their infh
, I*. addit ;op to tiieQance* taught in Philadelphia, measi
, to teach the Minuet, Minuet de la Cour, Allemand, Ga*
vot, Quadrilles, Stratjifpeys, and all Scotch Dances ; and
above all to pay particular attention to that very naceffary
j part PolUt Address. For particnlars enquire qi Mrs. ByrNj
r No* 70 north Eighth-street. Februiy 6 mwftf
e PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of Truftces of
" Washington Academy, in Somcrfet County, and
State of Maryland,
\ NOVICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the officc of Principal Teacher ii) the (aid school ,'i«
f vacant.
\ GENTLEMAN qualified to teach the higher Greek and
il L?i;ii» Claflics, Geography, and the Mathematics, witb
f . such other branches of literature as are usually taught in such
schools, would meet with liberal eneourageme*t> and, it i«
believed, would obiajn a very eligible settlement. For the
_ prefeut, the Trustees would be willing to contract with a per
ion capable of taking charge of a Grammar S hool.
As this Inltitution is provided with buildings fufficient to
n accommodate the principal and his family, and from seventy
( to eighty boys[; a library, an excellent philosophical and ma
e theraatical apparatus, glomes, maps, &c; has refpeftable
funds, and is situated in a plentiful and agreeable part of the
e country ; nothing seems wanting to make it rank among the
most ufeful seminaries in this part of the Union, but a suitable
. character to prefidein it.
Proposals may be addressed to the fubferiber, in Princefc-
Anoc, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to Do&or
Martin L Haynie, No 85, north Third-street,
delphia, or to the Printer hereof.
5 ' EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
so J anuar y V 3' 7- tu&fßw t
This Day is Published,
L" BY MciT Dobfoii, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other
Book fellers, price One Dollar and tweniy-five cenu, elegant
ly printed on woye paper, and hot-prefled, by John Them p.
e son,
t A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
' s The CONSTITUTIONS of the several States,
With each other, and with that of the United States i
exhibiting in Table«, the prominent features of eaehCon
ftitution, and classing together their most impertant pro
r vifiens, under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observation's. By William Smith, of South-
Carolina, L L. D and member of the Congrcfs of tfte
lt United States. Dedicated to People of the United
s Sttten.
N. B. A few Copies printed on inferior paper, at
" 3-4thsof a dollar. February 6 mwf
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia PHme Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and keg*
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry C»dfi(h, from one to fifty kcritals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, 111 the fione
and ground, for manure and ilucco-<tork
December I tth&f
JUST ARRIVED,
By tt>e Datiifh fliip Friendfi'.ip, captain Matzen, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine,
In Pipes, Hoglheade aa<l Quarter-Calks,
150 Boxes of Lemons,
k (For Sale by
:• Philips, Cramond & Co.
February 9 5J
- , • •; ' f
COMMUNICATION.
Wafhinglert City, now buildiug far the perms
nent iVfidence «sf the gavernmeut of the XJniietl
i> Sfates, and of coude, for the metropolis of the
a . unioH, being iitßated upon the mod healthy and
beautiful feite for a gieat city that nature ever
formed, and commanding the molt exteniive com
f> mercial connections of any place within the United
States, has, as might be expe&ed, attra&ed the
a , envy, and ill-will, every city,
:o town, and village, between the Delaware aud James
River. Hence, a variety of miffeprcfentations have
been industriously propagated, tending to impiefs
an idea, that Cfcngrefs will not go there at the
_ time fixed by law, and that consequently the project
will fail.
In order, however, to obviate these impreflions,
and to state the matter in its tritk it will be
necessary to point out, the bafts on which
this great national object (lands.
The constitution of the United States had not
been 4oug ratified, when the states of Virgisia and
Maryland, refpe&ively, psfTed laws, offering te
Congress the exclufirelegifktion of ten miles square,
and a large sum of money, tewjrds the eredtion of
- the public buildings; upon condition, that the per
manent feat of the government of the Unites States
(hould be fixed on the river Potomac.
Accordingly, on the 16th day of July 1790,
Congress, by the law fixing the permanent feat of
the government of the United States, " accepted"
of the diltrifl of territory, and of the money offered
by the states of Virginia and Maryland ; hcrncr, it
becomes a compact between the United Stale'and
• those individual states; not repealaMe
but by consent of all the contracting parties.; £
consent not likely to be had. In confe'quence of
authority by the fame law, the President of the
United States obtained fram the original propxie- 1
tors, a grant of one-half of tie lots in the City of
Washington, as a fund for the public buildings.
A large portion of these lots, belonging to the
United States, have been fold to citizann and so
- reignei'B, the purchasers confiding'in the national
faith.
Those, therefore, who believe, that Congress
. have power to repeal that law, ami to meet in any
other place than the capitol in the City of Wash
ington, 011 the fir ft Monday in December in the
year t8»o, will alfu believe, that they have power
. to violate contrsfts, to refufe to pay ths principal
. and interest of the national debt, and to become
legislative swindlers. No friend, however, to this
country, will believe a»y such absurdity. As to rite i
idea of Congress meeting in the President's house,
instead of the capitol, it would be a greater viola
tion ufpublic-faith, than Congress not going to the
Citv at all; as large purchases bf lots and improve
ments have been made about the capitol, in confi. '
' dence that it is to be the place of general legislation,
agreeably to the plan publiUhed.
A certain political writer, last spring, swelled up
a monthly pamphlet, in abusing the location of
Washington City ; and at the fame time, was so
grossly ignorant of that great national ebjeft, as not
to kDow in what state in the union it stands. The
whole of Washington City is in Maryland, a state,
exceeded in virtue, morality, and attachment to ol
der and good government, by no (late in the union.
It would, therefore, be well for those who under
take to censure the measures of Cbngrefs, if they
would firli inform themselves of the geotjraphv of
'the United States,
That Sufficient accommodation will be ready by '
the time appointed, and that Congress will meet in
Washington in the year 1800, aud remain there as -
long as the present government (hall continue, is
absolutely certain : the eonfequence of which will
be, that fh? immense population and wealth which
Congress, with the departments of the government,
draw aftpr {hem, will at once constitute a city ;
and the demand for lots, and buftk of building,
will exceed all calculation that can now be made ]
upon it. For, as foen as Congress shall adjourn .
fiom Philadelphia, to meet in therr ntwCity at their
next session, the anxiety throughout the United '
States will be extreme during that fumaier, to pie- (
pare hotels, taverns, boarding houses, retail flores, '
prttning-offiees, and private houles, in order to ac- '
commodate Congress aTaout the capitol; while a ,
large portion of the commercial capitals in the union '
will find their way to the Eastern Branch, which <
is the falefl. and moS commodious harbor in the
United States ; and contiguous to the place wherd 1
Congress will, and must fc fide. Besides, the ex- 1
ctllence of the water, arfd the extreme faUibrity 1
and beauty of the place, will produce in Congrefc '
ana alf .ts followers, an admiration of the wisdom I
of the location ; and Wafhmgton City, in spite of 1
all opposition, « will grow up with a degree ofra- 1
ptdity unparelleled in »he annals of cities," any th,V
in any petty prejudiced Gazeteer to the contra., 1
notwithstanding. ' 1
February 18. lt 1
No. 17c.
Diflrift ef Pennsylvania, to wit. 1
BE It remembered, that on the 34th day of Janu-rv '
m the twenty-Sift year of the independence of the United '
otates of America, John Thompson of the said diftna
hath depoihed m this office the title of a Book, the rVht <
whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following 1
"A Comparative View 0 r the Constitutions of ihe 1
.7" a Slates w "£. eadl other, and with that of the .
United States, exhibiting in tables the promiwnt features {
Tmnor, D tt T ,0D ' to « e,hcr their
important provisions under the several heads of adminif- ,
tration • with notes and observations. By William Smith c
of South-Carolina, tL- b. and member of the Comrrefs
of the Uiiiied States." . Jr <
In conformity to the aft of the Con e rff 6 *of ihe United '
States, intituled " An AA for the of
learning by securing the copies of maps, charts and books 1
to the authors anU proprietors of. such copies during tha'
timc6 therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
; Clerk of the D iftri &of Pennsylvania
— law 3
~v _ ALT. PERSONS
rNDEETED to the Estate of the late David Kinnedt
A tfyu.re, cither by note, bill, bond, book account, or
othCTwife are to make immediate payment to
tlie fubfenoers,, without delay, and all persons having any
""**• M - "" lbi ' ,h =
ANN KENNEDY ■> Adm'x 1
~U! r . PRANCIS JOIiNSrON J Adm'r. •
f Philadelphia, Fsbruary 8 ivgw (
■UWhIIWWIW— ;■
From tke StLtAxr Gazette.
1 QUESTION. .
d What number of inhabitants is the 1 et-itory of
r the United States capable of fubfilhng, and at
1- what probable period will our population reach that
d number f
e ANSWER.
The state of population in old countries, remains
s from age to age, nearly fhtionaiy ; because every
e country is capable of fublitiing only a certain num
s ber of inhabitants proportioned to its freedom the
e gooodnefs of its foil—extent—climate, and natural
fc advantages. 'On this basis, it is worthy the atten
tion of a curious mind to investigate, what number
, of inhabitants the present Territory ®f the United
e States is capable of containing, and at wh t period
i it will prsbably reach a stationary point. The me
dium of the population of Ofeat-Britain, France,
t Holland, Ireland (which contain together 274,128
1 square miles) is 165 inhabitants to each square
> mile. The United States contains, exclusive of
, water, 920,313 square miles; admitting this im
t menfe territory fufeepiible of an equal population,
• it will forlow that it it capable of lubfifting
> 151,851,645 inha!)itant6,
Supposing our present number of inhabitants to
, be only 3 1-2 millions, and that this number (hould
continue doubling each fucceflive 25 yeais, our
1 whole territory will be completely lhtcked with re
i publican citizens in less than 120 years.
AUGUSTA, January 26.
We hear si om Louisville, that the legislature goes
on with the utmaft harmony in their legislative
pi-oceedings—That a committee has been appointed
to unquire into the failure of the Indian iraaty —
one to enquire into the failure of the couirs in the
middle diftridt—another to report as to tjje pro
priety or impropriety of opening an office for dif
pcifing of the tract of sountry lying between Flint
River and the Oconee ; an-d one to revise thejtidi
«iary system.
It is now reduced to a certainty that Mr. Adams
is ths President of the United Slates, and Mr.
Jsffetfon the Vice President. At the fame time we
are affared,' from a refpeftable quarter, that the
latter gentleman (contrary to the received opinian)
has declared a perfedt acquiescence in the choice of
his fellow-citizens, his view having never extended
beyond the office of Vice-President of the United
States. Each being thtis perfectly fatisfied in the
choice made by the people of the United States,
what-may we not expefi fiom their united talents
and pdtriotiftn. ,
A N D
PPhiladelphia Daily Jldvertijer*
PHILADELPHIA,
STOCK*,
Six per Cent. - - .... I f ) j
Three per Cent. . 9/4 a 4
per Cent. -
54 per Cent. ...
Deferred Six per Cent. - - - 11/9
BANK United States, • - . Iliiaperct
Pennsylvania, ... . 13 do.
—; North \meiica, - - - 40 do.
tnfurar.ee Comp. N. A. (bares, - pcr ct _
Pennfylv. r '
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, 61 f-i
ar 60 days* 60
at 90 days, 57 ,. 4
Amlterdam, 60 days, per guilder. 4®
9O days, 4t
THEATRE:
The Way ft get married, a new comedy by Morton,
has been twice performed to very general acceptance ;
and ftrems likely to become a favorite piece.
Altho' the writer cannot claim any great ftnre of 0-
riginality in all his characters, yet that of Tamrent is
certainly in a confiderjble degree novel, as w-Tlas na
tural ; and is so uucommonlv interesting, as to eo far
111 atoning for the numerous faults of the play.
Moreton never more in his .eleiuent than in this
eccentric character Mrs. Francis did Clementina j n
" such a style as added lustre to the piay, and reflect
ed the highest honor upon her judgment and talents
The excellence ot Harwoor! in To% M wett as every
character he undertakes in a Gmilar is univcrfallv
felt and acknowledged. WigneU's Dafhall was sup
ported with great spirit ; and fc-emed luppilyto hit in
every point, the conception of the author.
The character of Faulkner is a very unfortunate one
for.the writer j and mars many ps the fcer.es in which
the author has introduced him. Cooper did all for
him that could be done.
Several feenes in this play fc-em utterly useless - as
not only not tending ia atiy wife to help forward tke
plot, hut actually having no connection with or rela
tion ton—-In "this predicament Hands the very scene
with which |he play opens.
The observation of Quimftilian, in regard ta com
position in general, quicquid von adiu-v.tt, cb/fat,
apphes-with more force to dramatic writing than any
other species of composition.
It is a pity that the modern dramatic writers, instead
U-f" C r" r '^ Payl e " e according to the irregu-
Ur of his own brain, cannot bellow some lit- 1
Ue portion of their attention to ancient standard mo
is I;, - ra £ e< *ie« of Euripedes
and Sophocles, might in this light be reforttd to with
great advantage. Or if even Shakespeare who did Hot
hefmte to become himfclt Cheir imitator and couvi'l
were mdre followed m the important points W div h
on ot plot and condi.a of action, we Iboutd not be
-d b4;
""""
CONGRESS.
Tl HREE months the fathers of the nation,
Have tugg'd the oars of Legislation j
And m long speeches mque have said,
i tiau penal patience evtr read.
Meantime, the they have done.
-amounts to three Jbort aft;, Ja-je one.
COMMUNICATIONS.
en , e 7" of , our lament said when it was
0 „,?Kr V U WCI Pr ° duce °PP«-ffi°n S nd
not public prosperity. Wheoit went int- opera,i
to ihsy raised an outcry about falarics, and said the
j
{Wc were and c fe 9 „ c J by c ft
6 ."y 01 "PP'effioo continued loag afler the
growing wealth ot all claflcs made it ridiculow,
W hen they could rio longer tell a contented and
f thriving yeomanry, that the great men and the pa
t per loros, dcc. had devoured widow's houses and
1 v [l™7k- ft'* ' V toalt lheircue « a»d infixed
he th tTf " a r d S overnmc nt were not to
be Ranked for our profpenty ; which at the ele
s venth hour they grumblingly acknowledged. Pea
, they fa,d and mduftry had revived trade and bufi
. ness, banks, public certificates and steady laws were
I briflcnefs nf I#l f"" 1 " P ' eiUy of mo ™Y and
i f ? dC Snd eate rprize—what the govcrn
' me £ l dld ;' hsd "® merit and was of no use.
i fauh i^ll^ Fra " Ce r ° ba ° Ur dcfence!t!s vefTel, the
fault i S all thrown on our own government. The
President and his executive ministers have provoked
. it, have done ft, have contrived it, in order t. quar-
BriTain aCe ' and betra y thc country to Great-
Thus as the democratic tales are not grounded
on truth they vary according to party exigencies.
ex P°k ,!le * r wifehood nothing more is neecflirr
than to compare them with themselves.
The correspondent of the French AurortH.ftei
with a humility due to the Terrible,-how and from
whom was discovered that the heads of .he a«d
treafiary departments ate filled by « fncc.fTor, in '
form —the P.elideot, George Waftin ,ton, trv'd
a«d approved refpe&ed aad elevated these gentle
men to their prefeet exalted stations. with the coa
eun ence of the Senate. It is not true that the friend.
of admieiftratioii " have told any fecret'' thou h
it w true that somebody not only te'lk, but obtains co
pics of confidential communications, and has rhem
publifh*d •there was no secret to tell—the world
knows how inadequate are the falaties, and the
" friends of adminiltration" voted for an increase
becattfe they were too Gnail—becaufe the prcfen.
admuiiftration are worthy of the best returns of
their country—and because it is necessary to keep in
office such men and futh *jjj KE
Am»ng(l thc mo'ft extraordinar j things wa have
feen,even in the prcfent age us wonders, is the
charge brought by f„me of the anti-gnvermental
writers of Philadelphia, and elsewhere agaiaft the
Prelicent ! because, as is alleged, he corresponded
with Wobefpierie ! This is imputed to hiin as a
crime. If the fa£t be as (ta'ed (which, hoVcver,
is not, by any means, beli*vedj— and had it been
known at th- time, it would probably have been a
topic of praise, mftead of a fdbjed of inveaive a.
mong his present foes, if they are capable of do.
ing him justice at any time But he is ty be abuf.
Ed even when he a£h as t,hey wi(h ! At that tint
Robespierre was the avourite among etir Ameri'
can Patriots, and whatever he did was ri^ht —thc
cruelties perpetrated under his iifurpation, were un
avoidably neceTTatv and whoever ventured to blame,
was called an-Arillocrat. Robespierre fell, and
was deservedly branded with thd names of Tyraat,
Villain, Murderer.—With the change of senti
ments in France, the sentiments of such of our A
mericans as approve whatever is done there, chang
ed too. The memory therefore of the T'/rant is
execrated -m,\ whoever had-any tiling to fay to
him, or is supposed to havecorrelponded with him, »
participates in the stigma J How cautious (tumid a
farty man be ! He is continually in danger o(j run
ning into iicnnfifleney. Is not eveiy one whe ad
vocated the bloody raeafares then pursued, implica
ted in some degree in the charge ?—Cerninly;
And why (hould tiiofe on whom this imputation
attaches so irrefillibly, now declare aganift a ma:i
for a pretended approbation of ivhat themselves
avowedly applauded.?— The fait is, nothing is too
absurd for party to lay hold of ) and when plauliole
topics are exhautted, THE MOST IMPROBA
BLE TALES ARE TRUMPED UP TO
SUPPORT THE SYSTEM GF DECEP
TION.
The communication to Congrcfs by the Execu
tive, which i» in (he JVefs at Philadelphia, and ex
pected here in a few days, is certainly ihe moll ia
tereftir.g collc&ion of Political Papers ever made
public since the r(labli(lime.nt of the Federal Go
vermnent.
It is <ro:iceded on all hands, tbat our present fitua
t ion ia .Tiorc' dtlirste thotJgtt we t.ufi not more
alarming, than Ninety Four, when Mr Jay was dis
patched to the British Court ; and if recent advices
may be depended on, we have teafon to expefl a
happy iflue from Mr. Pinckney's Embassy to Paris.
Without preteuding te enter upon the merits of
our dispute with France, we may fairly fay, that a«
we had a right to expect better treatment from her
than from England, so the irritation caused by in
julliee from her, is more fenbfibly f»lt, thaa if per
pet rnted by England.
Whether the lengthy note of Citizen Adet, con
tains charges incapable of refutation, will be decid
ed by comparing it with the Secietaray ot State'*
letter to Mr. Pinckney, by thu docu
ments accompanying it.
It is to be hoped that a spirit of partiality to ont,
or ptejudice againll the other will be difcat 'ed, and
tha refpeitive met it* of thtr two performance*, t cit
ed only by that (landau',,, which (hcutld be used in
deciding overy •aellit-n of importdr.ee.
That no point could aj-ife in which the p-fiions
are mo'e ealily cr.lii.led, either ob one fide or the
other is obviou—but the obvioufuefs of the fact,
iultead of relaxing our vigilance, flieuld operate to
guard ÜBagainft beidg into unintentional
error, and lead us to repel prepoffeffioiis of every
kind. '
The Story rumJimply tbui— I wo Philadelphian*
in our city a tev/ days Since fell out—a duel was a
gieedoo—feconds choiea—thtv to the
spot of trial —(a room in a public house not many
yards from the Park)— a (hot was exchanged—one
of the antagonitls fell—.the other marie hueicSpe—
the alanr and he was pursued 1 1 hia
buille was the confluence of a supposed tea! duel—
but it was a (ham i and, by the bye, the ableond
iirg petfoii does not yet kp.ow that he did not hurt
his epporent ! - v
['[he three !af. paragraph art frtm the New*
York DuVy GjzeJie J
j i -The fallowing petition wa« read in tke Senate of
the United States, on Monday the 13th inilaat,
and referred l* Mr. Hillheufe, Mr. Henry, Mr.
Mai tin and Mr. Read.
To the Honorable the Congress of the United Statet.
The memorial and petition of the owners of land
in the state of TenHcfTee, that was purchased from
the state of North-Carolina, and has fincc keen
yielded to the Indians for haotißg ground.
Shiwst*, '
That your memorialists obtained certificates to a '
confidetable amount from the state of North-Caro
lina for services and supplies they had rendered du
ring the war : that the debt of the state being
greater, as they conceive, at the end of the war,
than the debt of any other state in the Union, con
sidering the number ef its inhabi.ants, and the citi
zens nearly ruined towards the end of the war, by >
the general depredations of foreign and dotnaiic 1
enemies, the Legislature unable to discharge the in- I
tereft of the debt opened an office for the file of
land, and offered a large tra£l to the public credi- *
tors, reserving other lands as hunting grounds for i
the Indians. At a time when the whole taxes in >
» the state, the civil lift being de lusted, were not b
equal to one quarter ef the interest of its debt. v
Your memorialists may fay irith conSdence that Ito '
alternative presented itfelf W to take the lands of
fer«d them or lefe the debt. To many citizens it
appeared necessary to take landu, for they had no- $
thing left them except certificate*, and they hac not t,
fortitude to abide what seemed to them inceitllale
deftruftion. After our locations had been made
and our lands surveyed, a treaty was made with the
fn'dians by the commissioners of the United States, e
by which our lands were surrendered to the lndi' I'
»"s for hunting ground. It might have been ex- ll
that the Legislature at their next meeting j
wtrnld have restored our certificates, in cafe they ti
improperly fold those lands ; but they conceiv- cl
ed as we suppose, that their right as explained by
their confliiution was indubitable, and they foleron
ly resolved to guarantee our titles and 10 give us , lj
pofTcffiou of the lands. We are'confident that no 0
deception was intended, bat laws and resolves of the fa
, Ante have brought us no re'ief. The General As w
fembly at their session in 1789 yielded the sole ju- v;
nfdiflion of the Western country to the United
States, with an express reservation in favour as your
memorialises, of all their rights and claims under the 61
state. From year to year we have patiently expec
ted relief ; in the year 1793 we addrefled the Ge- w
rieial AfTembly, entreating tha: fucn justice mieht | P *
be done us as had been done to other citizens. The i Pi
Assembly referred 11s to the Congress, and feflion j br
after feffioß has pafTcd away, but Congress has done £
rmthing in our favour. We have again claimed jus- p r
tice frona the state, and we are again referred to the
Congress. We hope and confide that the honelt ~
claims of citizens will not be eludfd by two legis
lative bodies, upon whom no law can operate but
the clear law ef justice. During the late w»r, we
did not thrinkTrona any danger or calamity to which r
w« might be exposed for the public fafety, bm we k!
cannot difcover«ny reason why we should be mark > il
ed for deftruiSion in the time of ptace ; nor why lic
•nc mi! io., of itoulJ fcooi ..-rruin la .,
individuals in NortU-Caroliua in order to make a £
saving to the nation. Provifton has been m.tde for a <
every other citizens, their claims have be«uVundeJ c °
at zof. in the pound. We are the only prrfoiis to
whom justice is refuted, we leceive nothing but una
▼ailing premises. -
WhiU we are feekii.g for justice, we do not take Z.
the liberty to prescribe the manner in whuh it is to fy
be done. We have no direct claim to any thing, °'
except the lands that are furveyod and granted to J "'
our use, nor are we desirous to exchange thofejandt 77
for other lands, nor for the price at which they were 2Vt
fold ui. It was originally considered that we might
take up choice trails in a country, wkieh con
tained fomr of the best ia ids in America. We fT
made our felfftioK at a confideijahle expenfc, and al- '
though those lands should be delivered to us free
from Other charges, we are willing to contribute oar
portion of one million ef dollars, counting the re- *
jnainjng vacant lands, in order tu extinguish the In-
dian claim; provided immediate jJoffeffion can be J**
obtained. But in cafe our interest should seem to 1
be opposed to the general weal, and the extiisflioH
©t the Indian claim should be delayed, we
confide that justice in some form may be rendeied !
us.
James Glasgow f For and by of a
larj.c number of the hold
ers of laHds entered in the r j
Mufcandine Mathews J "® ce , of J ohn A ' mft >"ong, "
hftj late entry taken of 011
Wefiern lands, and since r
ceded to the United States,
John Giay Blount by the state of N.Carolina. ,
Raleigh, 23 d December, 1796.
NEW YORK, February 17, v
A letter from ja,maica of a late date mentions, P ,,c
that flour wa, felling there a: 22 dollars per barrel-
Ob Wednesday evening lift, the barn of Mr.
Wiiiiam Baldwin, at Elizabeth Town was confu
ased by fire, \ritb a horse, hay, grain, See. eftiGia
fed at icoo dollars. And the barn of Mrs. Rufs,
oppolite the Epifcopa] church, the next evening,
was discovered to be on fire—it did oot do so much
o..mage as it threatened. Endeavors are not want- j neat
ing to deleft the incendiaries; whe, it feeois ba*e hirni
tsiade many attempts te fire that growing town. ■
j Stre<
BOSTON, February 4. j U
Mr- RufTell, rary
To rescue thetown of Portland from the impu
tation which might poflibly reft upon it, from the *
insertion m certain papers, of certain toasts drank R 1
there by the " patriotic" democratic society of that 7 t
place, I beg leave to inform your readers, that be- for"
ing at Portland at the time, I was assured in a large fer i
circle ot the best informed, and molt candid and . will I
liberal citizens, that the toasters of tKofe cheering *' 4r d
feutitoems did not exceed Bin number ; and that,* 1 * of
to evince their genuine, unadulterated " fiatr'utifm/'
the> fraited on ne other than " Nova Scotia 1 ' her > 1
rw o : > ai '<2 '• Beurdcautc" Brandy. 1
te of To be fold,
last » (For MORRIS'S VOTES)
Mr. r r
100,000 acres 01 Land,
LY£NC in Randolph county, in Virginia. Enquire of the
i a i etm Primer. Febru«rjriß S 3 t
land To be fold,
rom The time of a Mulatto Girl,
CCII 'O years to fcrvc, and is about 17 years
VV old. She is a hearty, ftroog g'n J, and can have the
best ef Ttcom*iendatu>ns from her owner.' *
Apply at No. ne Unio>v!lreet, next to the eomer of ith
to a ftr«-et. lB ft& tji
aro " PROPOSALS
du- For printing and pubiiflitng, by fubferiptioo, The
111 History of Pennsylvania,
con- T N North - Amcr: «' frnm thc original mftirutioo and fettle.
. ." JL ment of th t pr<wincc, un-ier tliefirlk proprietor and go v.
Cltl- ern»r, William Pe.nn. in 1681. 'till attei ihc year i T4 i •
by * ith an IN 1 RODtICTION iclpetling the Life ol v.*
)4ic PENN > P [ior 18 iheg.aiii of that Piovince, and the relwmi
Society o l the p-oplc called Quakers; Viththe FIRST
01 the NEIGHBORING COLONIES, mare pan iculadv «t
Xof WEST-NEW-JERSEY, -nd the Settlement of the DUTCH
e( ]j. and SWEDES on DELAWARE.
r To whtch is added,
A BRIEF DESCR!PI lON OF THE SAID PROVINCE.
» m And of the general A«tc, ia which it fleuiiftwd, prine caily
not between the years 176* and 1770. The whole including a
ebt. " rl ' lv#l things, ufeful and intcrefting to be known, rc
•no 'P'CtiHg (hat country in rarly tl m e , &c. With an appendix.
■ ' Written principally between the vean -1776 and 1780.
' of- Bv ROBER r PROUD.
18 it " Fukhrum'[beiicficttc rripukltc*. cttMm benedicerc haud tb
lIS. f u 'dumefl , vel pace vel bellocUrum jieri licet.'' f»|. Cjialin.
" Sed enm phnquc arbiiicntur res bellieai names ejfe quun ur- 1
not tanas, mmutnda ett hoc opinio." Cic. Off. 1
aV) 1 r ( r ntcrcd according te taw.)
indc "WILLIAM PENS, the great legidator of the Quakers,
the Pc y ' , ' ' r " a ) ha ' l the fnccefa of a conqueror, in cStabl-.fh
ing and defending h s colony,
ICS, evir drawing ttiefword ; th? gooduefs of the mjft be»tvo- i
ndi- lent rulers, iu treating hi* fubjefls at his own children ; and ,
the tenderness of an univerlal ather, who opened his arm! .
. - to all mankind wiihout ditlmftion of fefl or party. In his '
'"g Republic it was not his religious creed, but perf.mal mtrit, 1
hey that entitled every member of fociqty ta the proteftien and I
e | v . cmotumentof the State"
k v f-ffty 9" Tctcrati«n, iy Arthur O'Legry.
' CONDITIONS. 1
I. This work will be printed in two octavo volumes, neat- '
US ly bound and tered, both in (hecp and calf, for ihe choice 1
no . ol the fubfenbers ; on paper itmiLr to that of these propo- ,
the W ' lh l " e '" ne 'et ,tr " thefaconditions. J
a f he head of William Penn, handfomelv engraved.
will be prefixed to the lull, and a map or (ketch of Pennfyl- f
j u . vama, an.l the parts adjacent, to the fecoad volume ;
ted , "V < J' h eP ri « to fubfeftbers wiJl be four dollars and an
had in fneep, and five dollars in calf; —one dollar to be paid -
at the tune of fubferibtng, two d<dlais-J*. the delivery of the
the frft volume, and the remainder on the delivery of the second. !
e C - IV. When one thoufar.d copies aie fubfcribed'for, the,
>e- wo ,. . wl " be P U[ t0 P re(i aud finiflied with all conv.nieotex
{ pedinon.
tht j Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poulfon, jun'
he ! Primer, No. So, ChcfW-ftreei, and al ihe Philadelphia Li"
[•a j brary in Fihh-ftreer ; by Isaac Collins, Printer, and
>ne Mt,ch ""' N-'-v-York; b» Jhn P. Pleifants aad
Grorge W. Field, Mercfia.us. Baltimore j and by other 1
Ul- pc»Jons both in town a/id country. t
he January sB. 3 „ wtf
c(t ,
;,f - Grand Concert. >
On SATURDAY EVENING, the i s tb Infant ' 1
vv . e At OELLERN ROOM. t
I CIGNOR I RISOBIO . frtm Italy, proftjfvr of voial music, <
we yj prtfofe, to give *<unc,rt tf meat und 'music hi c
•it the mtji twnpl'U manner, wtick ■u-itl mrtmftjl »i, ref*cS> to a put- ;
I he, ■wh#pmtfht, ti intretisfir tb*~s(t time. H. ii hoppy ■
Sin !oM*i bhfcUUr.,„*mei 3 . Mr,. Hernia* & 1
•a j frueralfcUel piece, ; tnd Mr >
- " ""v 11 wUlf.og an It.!,an .ir There ■will be touted C
'"JL k > ,hr:c He ./ th < iuhd . 3
led L ° iU > "»>■! a concert, cn the violin, and mr Gv.-nir. tr.c
to f'anoforu. Am.ng,t f.'.eralfifious an/t comic fen., ,
T Tri /° hn • J,m M, b < Prtmiji, t, berftrm a tUo U ,
lone ; that is tt fay, *n in uticn of three Italian Nuns ; and as- 1
te n rc-J,tb.favourite, m I,of the Cat,. Almotl a' I the fa,, 0
ite ,uiu., -a;U he fang, mill be frirted ,h. m .ftc, ar I t
10 .. "" v '-' n " •/ '*%»> lo far chafe them - r'-dtete V
,g, f M Oiler-: Hotel fat mr. Bradford', £(-
10 *'■ Z>S,u>h FronUfireet ;«/ «r. IVUU£, mufici! „. {a . 1
.. °sj mmrietjlreet ; at mr. Cha'k, eirnlaiin, library a
;;; {
ht T!j-- Concert -will commei.ce at 6 teUci.
HI. February/ 18. . g
— 8
a! . For Freight, for Newbury-port, Ports- , r
ee mouth or Boston,
ar THE scH °° NE,t
n* Industry,
be Francis Salter, Master, J*
, o .Ib »»w.ready to take m freight, at Arch-Aroet wharf. b
Apply to the matter on board. *
" FOR SALfi, c<
'* A few barrels CYDER'. - b.
February IS |j; w ul
i X tf
j General Orderi. m
ie r-T* Ht a r . P,l|l «elphi», February 17th, 1797. ' I
• I ° f thc m, L ,t,a o: thc «•>' count, of Pni- 1 m
gr, ladelphia, are rtqucftrd tOEflembleat the r
on Weduefdaynext, the 126 iuftant, aft 10 o'clock
lo proceed horn thence wah th • State Society of Cincinnati! ,u
to pa\ their refpeQ. to the Pre lid em of the United Mates on , Ol
S, the anniversary of hu btrth.
a. ' By order of the Toinmander in Chief
JOS HARMAR, JJj Gen. C 0
jo
A Woman Cook, 1
WHO can be well recommended, may hear of a rood i ,
B place by euquuing of the Printer. ba
j* February 17 mS 3 w. ca
117" K
i. The Advertiser, y°
1- C A Steady middle a»ed Married Man) c 0
I, \T/" HO has b " n re a ularl y bred to. «d is welf ae- {ri
VV quainted witb bufinets, wilhet to engage as a clerk fil
' ia a tempting hcufe. or affifUnt in a public office, or in' be
a j that of an attorney or counsellor at law He writes a
- j neat plain hand.cerreaiy ,nd expeditionfly; and flatters ,
e hrmfclf be can produce recommendatiem «f refpcdabili 3
, ty._A line addreiTed to W. C. at No.jj, NortH Second an<
| Street or at tke Printer, of this paper, will be duly at- my
tended to. 7 . 7
I N. E. The advertiser will chearfolly accept any tempo- "■!
rary employment as above. February 18. «
j - ■■■ - sea
LOST, rcfl
BETWEEN the fubfrribert' house and the Bank as pf *
the United States, John Gvest & Co'a NO! £ =
dated 17th June, payable to Thomas and John Clifl
ford, or order, 6c.days after date, and endorsed by them
tm S4O Dollars. Whoever has fon»d the fame, and
will bring it to the fubicribers, will be thankfully re
warded. Payment being flopped at the Banks, it can r
• be of no use to any person. /'
JOHN GUEST & Co. ™
c _ • , No. ao, South Second-ft reet. Pip,
All.nerfoni are forwarccd agiinft purehafitig the
laid Note. Fcbiuarr 18. $ j,
L.
LOVDON, Dec-mber 4.
It ii a curio :• a.<d remaakable f.ict, that the
Navy d>-bt, through the whole of the American wai,
'> up to 1782 aaiou.'itedonly tothefuroof I 1,3 18,45©).
the »nd we find that Mr. Pitt's Navy. Debt, amowits,
S:)l it one .year, to 11,993,1671 193 6J. so that, in
one year, Mr. Pitt lquandered abuve fix liundied
tho^fand.pounds more than. Lord Noith spent in
- seven years. Yet this is the economical minister of
e'th' w^om Mr. Burke fays,*"that, if ever the finances
of this nation can be retrieved, Mr. Pill is the man
,f to retrieve them !
Genera! Tarleton intruding himfelf amongflthe j
: Friends of Freedom ! His apology for his canduft ,
on tbe slave trade—that it was againlt his own
fettlr- p r * oc 'p' ei » an( l merely in obedience to his ronftiiu- 1
gov. enti, only feews that the mearmefs of some men is 1
'74* 1 eq»«l .to their depravity. Every one mud reealleCt
• v - the ridicule with which he has so constantly treated <
t ' le ''g' l3 and'groans, the tears and blood of fuffer- t
Hy •> ing humanity ! Wlien we behold Inch a maH a- c
TCH mongft f >m; of the " excellent of the earth," oar
fenfacions are fumewh&t iimilarto what they would I
fCE. I ,3V = been at an affcmbly which our readeis may t
pally find an account of in Jab. Chap. i. Verse 6.
"V ~T 1
Idu" nc,v ,fir B Tjnt ' n K additional forces—the i:
j, immense fopplies railing and to be raised—the war '»
with Spain—the captuie of the Dutch fleet—the a
awful fitu.ti.Ni of this country—call-for a variety of a
, reflections which the-prefs of important temporary c
matter obliges us to defer. j c
We cannot however fuffer some refle&ions on the
M aroon Negroes, J n a l ate debate, to escape with- c
houi " l,t a "* ort anjmadvetlion. Without paying one j
tvo- iota of credit to what any wretch mar fay is afj
and profefled vindicator of that fyltem of complicated
I™! aild '"^ ernai villainy, the Slave-Trade, we (hall on- ri
ifnt, 'y take the liberty of informing f»cb men, when they v<
«nd have the frant to complain of the Maroons for being ai
savages, for committing cruelties, and for being a
inimical to civilization and to chriilianity I that h
ieat- there are not io all God's ▼itible ercaiion, animals el
oice fa despicable and detestable, as tltofe humane, civil-
J P°~ ixed cbrijlian savages, who after the evidence tbat «;
vcd. ' las ' >eeß ' before the public, dare persist in de- p<
ifyl. fending a traffic the moflaccurfed that ever existed, Ii
and the moil detcfted in the light of God, and of all e<
L'd g"*»e»l
the
>nd. Speech of the present King of Sweden, Gudavus w
,hc - Adolphus, delivered from the Throne on the firlt h<
inllant, and addressed to his Royal the ci
jun' late Duke Regent. tt
Li'
. P
led " le '* come > oa which, pursuant to the last
iher will of my Father, Inm ta declare my leif os-age ft
to govern the Swedish people. Oa my entering ar
(his day, in the name of the Lord, on the admini- ni
Itration of my kingdom, by requesting your High- si]
nrfs to resign me thatgovernment which you pi
have hitherto held, I feel my heat deeply afledted by
the mod lively feelings, penetiated with veneration lil
Itftc, ®"d gratitude towards that Providence who has it
' m cholrn the to govern a free independent people, and
vvuti love for a nation, at all times tiilh'uguilhed for h;
1 •• 'j' y and valour, and irnpreffed with the im tr
Mr and extent of (he duties [ have to fulfil, as
utd On this occasion, so important for me, and for us P
all, <4 the feyerelofs we hare sustain- at
v" CC1 ' revives i-.i eur minds; 1 have loft a
j'arcnt, and the couutry a reveied and beloved so
tf- Ul s liie gratnude and homage we owe him« m
atj, can be forgotten by a true Swede; but 011 M
•'f't! this cccaliou, our regret is more keenly felt. To ad
be t:,is".<ay the interpreter 6f the sentiments which 01
_ 1 (liare with uiy fubjetls, is for me a flattering lot,
*ry, a ■' m Y cxprcffi«nsare but weak, let it be jecol- be
bit, th.t finch a King as we have unfartusatcly W
1011, needs no other eulogiums, 11# oilier pledges of irr
gtiet, hut those which are imprinted 00 loyal and th
_ grateful minds. As his fan, I bring to his memo-1 co
tf- r y the offering of tke mod heartfelt gratitude for ly
his tender care for ciy'well being, which he extend- en
rd even beyond his grave, by consigning to you
dear Utciy, the adminillration of this kingdom,
during my minority. Your Higbnefs supplied
his place bath tor tnyfelf aud the country. 1 am no
, r f. by "o means ignorant of the pain anc* vigilance ral
which you have (hewn, and toy gratitude shall ue?»r ex
ccale. I hough your own conscience offen you the
bed reward, yet, I know, that it affords you the W . c
utmull fatisfaftion to fee me, wliof.- yeuth was en- 0
trulled to your care, assume the sceptre in a worthy
manner. Relying on the support of the Almighty,
jj. j I led happy in being ab?e te declare before you,
*i- my Lords, Dukes, and before you Swedes and dear
VI ! rub J eAs > ""ffemhled bcre, on cnterir.g on my func
tj) tions, that it is my earnest wilts 10 condudl the ad- nc [
00 | ministration to the well being and happiness of us E"
all. My principal aim shall be this, to follow the
course of law and justice, that every .Swede may ea- '7-
_ joy in peace the fruit of liis labour ; to protest the
kingdom and its independence ; to increase the a Pf
(lock of general and individual happiness ; to huf- tm
bapd the reflrurces of the state with the utmost °''
care; and thus to attain the choice!} blessings of a
- King, to be ftirrounded with happy (übjefts. Yet
young and inexperieueed, I hope' much fram the J'*
councils to which I (hall refart ; but especially y '
c . from the love of n.y fubjeas, who will drive to ful-
Ic, fil their duly to their King, as he (hall endeavor to •
n perform his duty towards th t m. Bv such fenti- pr "
* mentt and fueh a condudt the Swedifli people has
always diainguiUied itfelf and'my motto is, God
d t' lc People. These words (hall remind me of
my dnty.of my refponlibility, and of the support on "V
which 1 rely. lam convinced that IHy fubjefts tee
" will never degenerate from their ancestors, who wfa .
_ feared God, and loved their King ; and ttey may "r
reft affuied,that their lori (hall always form my
praadeft glory, and my bed reward."
______ Bris
* / Sloe
, Lisbon AVine.
1
1 50 Pip*i of Lisbon Wine, landing at Meflrs. Sum- *.
merl & Brown's wharf, between Arch and Race flreett, Mo
from mip Neptune, Capt. Jeffrie,, f lom Li(b»n. in
• "'P l "'. Woj(heads and Quarter Calks, for sale by Mei
P£T£R BLIGHT. 1
January it. s 7 t uk;
NEW-YORK, FebrHjry 19.
the It is not a little linguhr. that the Briiid) pa'lia
vat, ment and French Icgiflature (Jiuuld, about the fame
jel. time, fend each a lunatic to a .mthhoufe. Amm
rtts, in the galleries of the Haufe nf Commons cried out
,in ueafon 1 treason ! he »a3 taken into cuflody, ard
led found to Ai.oi'iici* min in th.- la'.-uae of
in the Council of Five Hundred, cried out, " 1 can
rof not leprefs my despair. On examination, he laid
ices he ca me to beg the Couheil to oppaft a lecret atti
nan cle in the Spanish iieaty, whieh was to place the 1
infant of 8 years of ape on the France.
The poltage of a Jomnal la France id fixed at
ihe two sous; but the Dcfenfeur de la Patrie is alio«r
uft ed to go to the armies fiee.
wn The Council of Ancients have voted to increafc
; u- the guards of th? legitlslive body from 800 to I2CO
lis men. Of courfc fotuetiting is brewing !
The fame Council has approved of a decree by
ted which all persons who have received the benefit of
er- the amnetties under the law ot 3d Brumaire, are ex
a- eluded from public functions.
>ar They write from tbe Ha»ue that ftrious affrays
Id have taken place betwccu the FteHch and Dutch
ay troops.
It is evident from the tenor of the publications ia
Paris, that the minister of foreign affaiis, Delacroix,
he is very unpopular with the moderate parts of the
r ar nation. The jacobin influence has prevailed in the
he adminiftratiau ; but the public voice is agnitift it,
of and has compelled the Diredlpry to hold more cob
ry ciliating to the Engliih envoy, ou the fub
je& of peace.
he The Council of Five Hundred has solemnly de
li- cided that all bargains made anterior to Jisly 1,
ne 179'» presumed to b« made for current
a specie.
Ed The young king of Sweden, who has lately maiv
n- ried a grand-daughter of the empress Hf Rnffia,
'J was invited to ama quid ball given on that occasion
ig at Peterlburgh. He refufed to attend, afligningai
'g a reafoil? that after the mclaueholy catajlrephe of
at his father, he could never be present at the specie*
lisas entertainment.
<1- A new Comedy fronwhe pen of Mr, Reynolds,
at called the " Fool of Fortune," has made its ep»
e- peaiance on the Covent garden Theatre, London.
d> it is laid to have been \ell received, but'is confider
ill ed as inferior to the former productions of the fame
author.
A principal chara&er is a fool or awkward fellove
JS who is always getting into fcra|. « In London
II he fnppofes money will extricate him from all diffi-
Mt culties—" if I knock a man down, fays he, what'.
to pay ? if I kiss another man s wife, what's to
pay ?"
iff The epilogue brings a Lady, Mifsßull, upon the
;e stage, with her Pug Dog, which (lie (hades with
g an umbrella; and the four legged performer makes
1- no small figuie at the close of the exhibition —the
v firft itillaace, we believe, in which fui h fort of pup»
'« pies have been called-on to help out an epilogue.
>y The French Legislature have refobred to eftab
in lifh a peimanent military council in cach division of
»s the aimy, to repress the dilorders of the troops,
id The celebrated profeffoi, Kant, of Konyfbergy
at has publiftied a project of perpetual peace, w Inch is
t translated and published in London. We believe
1. as little in the foccefs of his proje&, as ir m Godwin'g
is Perfe£lability of reason. But the celebrity of the
1- author makes us wish to fee the baok.
a It is remarkable thst general Tarleton, who
d fought to fubjefl these dates to Great Britain, is a.
11* mong the violent friends of freedom in England—
n Mr. Fox, Mr. Tooke, &c. while Mr. Burke, who
o adveated ihe caufc of America, is a roost outrage
h ous ministerialist.
t, Even the advocates of Miaiders are obliged to
1- bear their tribu eof approbation to the merits of
y Walhington. Would to God that their patrons had
<f imitated his pacific fydem 1 Walhington is one of
d those few charadeis who during his life lime hat
>- commanded the praise of all parties, by
r ly dcfervirig well, by a conduct above the aflaults of
I- envy, and beyond the reach of fiifpicion
u Id quod dijfictllimurn eft, laudem fine invidia peferit.
The conduct of Augtißus in his last moments is
a not uuknown to our clalfical readers. But how
e much any proud tyrant that ever
r exiited, may George Wafliington make his last ap
t peal to his fellow citizens, " whether he has a£ted
E well," and claim to his departing scene the mee4
of their grateful applause ? (Lon. Paper.)
r From the London Courier.
GENERAL WASHINGTON.
' This day was published at Mr. De Poggi's, No.
91, New Bond Street, a whole length print oif Ce
ntral Walhiugton. The picture from which this
t print has been engraved, is the size of life. The
President of the United States fat for it in the year
1791, at Philadelphia, ta Mr. Trumbull who had
formeily been one of his AiJs-du-Camp, and who
. appears to have united in this work the grateful
enthusiasm of a pupil and a friend, with the taleatt
ot an artist.
The Print is finely engraved by Mr. Cheefmait,
who has been employed upon it above these three
years ; and the public may be assured that not mere,
ly the likeness, but the figure and character of this
ve T £ rMt mail, are there faithfully delineated. The
size of the engraving is 18 by 26 ioches. The
price one guinea and a half. Proofs of which only
a very few have bee, taken off, price three guinea*.
Philadelphia, February 18.
Yefterdav Meflrs. Ball, Frafcr and Power, a commit
tee of the House of Representatives of this common
wealth, waited on the President of the United States,
with an Address of that branch of the Legislature
which, with the President's Answer, (hall appear on
Mogday.
ARRIVALS. j
Brig Jane, Lillihridge, New-Port, (R.I.J g
Sloop Laura, Bunker, New-Bedford j
Dolphin, Dennick, Richmond 9
Phila. & New-York Packet, Hunt, Norfolk S
From jLoyd's Lift to Dec. 9. inclnlive.
Sailed from Hull.
Molly, Lucai, New-York,.
Cork.
Mercury, Brown, New York
The Rofanna, (American) from Surinam, it
taken and carried into Fraose.Lancq/ter, Harrijburgb, CarlijleShip
penjburg and Sunbury F
STAGES.
The public are requested to take notice, that the part- Ot
nerfliip which his For some time fiibfifted betwea:« Mathi
k-- slough of Lancailer, and William Geer, i« bow d i Hel
ved. but, not as M. Slough infmuates to the public ha
without just. cause ;as will more fully appear by a letter a t
on the fubje& from M. Slough t® W. Getr, dated tke <je
49th December laifc a recital of which.i 3 not now deemed a
neceflary. Any gentleman who wishes to be more eir
cum tan dally informed of the merits of this bufmefs, by Je
applying to W.Geer may have the peruftl »f M. Slouch's by
IctUr, and then can'be at full liberty to determine whe
-tS=r or not W. Geer is not perfe<flly juftifiabie in attach- $ a
irg himfelf to any other person in the prosecution of the
i Uge conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenfburg,
or any dther place. p.
Now from the liberal and generous support Ihe public
were pleaied to confer on the firft effort in this bulinefs* at
Vf illiamGeer, in conjunction with Messrs. Reily, Weed
and Witmer, is determined to prolecute and carry it on, ce
with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o
blige the public can possibly exert. fq
The above company, who are amply provided with
carriages, horfts, and every appurtenancc to render the j a ,
passage fufe and commodious, inform thofs who wilh to
. patronize and encourage the under talcing, that they can
take their feat 6at George Weed's, the sign of the White ex
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday tr ,
and Friday, to proceed to Lancailer, Harrifourg, Carliile
and Shipper.fburg The fare as hitherto eftabiiflied. ar
For the further accommodation ot the public, a Stage
will every Wednefcay from the houfc of Samuel a |
Elder, in H'arrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Nx>rthumber- c [
land county, every Thursday, and return from thewce and h e
arrive at Harrilburg every Saturday, so tkat paflengers ra
destined for Lancailer or Philadelphia, may proceed om
Mondays, fix
WILLIAM GEER. s £
Lancailer,'Jan. Z7, 1797-
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from thehoufe of
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward; p;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Eldy in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, or the evening arrives
at Patrick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns from *■
thence on every Thursday : performing] ths fan%j routine 1
daily as in its tour from Philadelphia. raws
" ' SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy iff Infirmary,.
Adjoining the Pablic Square. Market Sweet.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his fuicere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he hai been employed, during his refidencc in this City, and
flatters himfelf that the fuccels of his efforts, in the numerous,
ebftinate and dangerous difeafci in Horses, in which he has 4
Been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe- 1
ure their future favctrs and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, eredkd for the F
purposes above described are open for the reception of pupils
of either lex, who wilh to beinltru&ed in the Art of Riding,
and the light method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
caicfully and expeduioufty broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to. he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
ail those beauties of action which providence has ly bounti
fully beflowed on them.
Also, at his liofpital, every disorder to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the ahove inlUtution has never been qneftion
ed, that it lus long been warited in this city, every gentleman's
stud will maiiifeft, and T. Swann at the-firß eftablifher of
theveterenary art, folic!tf and relies upon the fuppojtof that
public (which he isevtr anxious in serving) lo enable him to g
bring it to perfe&iou. The idea of a iubfcriptiqn for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wilh to
promote the inllitution —the amount of eacn fubfeription to
De returned by services in any of the departments-, he proieffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges stated iu his hand bill. Such
fobfeription is now op*n, and the signatures of many refpeft
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his si
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not i
the honorn being known, that he (hall in a few days take 1
the liberty of waiting upon them and folic king their support c
and prote&ion. *
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies Kid
v Centlemenwho wish to be inftru&ed. •;
N»v y tth&f.
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftr«et,oppofite the national new Bank*
Samuel m'fraences and John van reed" 1
have entered into ce-partnerthip, under the firm of °
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bulinefs of Broker?,
tjonveyancersand Commiflion merchant.. They buy and
fell on commiflion every fpecles of flock, notes of hand, j
feills of exchange, houses and larxis, &c.
Money procured oa deposits, &c. &c. all kinds of
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
aifpatch; accounts adjufled, and bosks fettled, in the
moil correal manner. Contlant attendance will be given.
They solicit a Jhare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to dderve it. ' r
N. B. The utmofl fccrecy ebferved.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. August 27, . m&wtf
James M'Alpin,
No. 3, South Fourth Jtrcet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
•and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive afTortment of the
Mod Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable for the fcafon.
At this (hop Gentlemen can be furnifhed withthe kifft
materials, and have their, made up m the neatest and moll
Jafhionable manner, arid ®r. the Ihortcft notice. He will
thankfully receive ai.y orders, and pay a prompt and
yun&ual attention to them.
November 10. »i
This Day is Published,
By BIOREN & MADAN, at their Printing Oflica,
No. 77, Doek-fireet, and fold by the principal
Dnokfelleri in thife City.
The American Annual Register ;
Or hiflorkal Mc.r.oirs of {he United States, for the
'Year 1796.
No. 167.
Di/lriH of Ptunfyhania, to -wit :
Be it remembered, that on the 19th day of January
in the Twenty-firft year of the Independence of the
United States of Americi, Bioi en & Madan of the said
ciiflriA have lll this Office the title of a Baok
the Right whereof they claim as Proprietors iu the
words following to wit:
" The American Annual Regifta', or Historical
«' Memoirs of the United States, for the year 1796.
In conformity to the adt of the Coiigrefs of the
United States entitulcd " All ail for the encourage
ment of learning by. securing the copies of Maps,
Charts anC Book?, tf> the authors and :» inrietors of
such copies during the time therei» mentiumd."
Samuel Caibwi'll,
Clerk Pennsylvania Difiriif).
Jaiuiity ja*4
PROPOSALS, \
For carrying the Mails of the United
States, \J
On the following Pajl RO9JI, will be received until
thefirjl day of March next inchfive -* a c
1. From Charleftun, S. C. by Jackfonboro' and Coofa- ton
hatchy, to Savunnah, twice,a weak. Rcceive the '"-fail
at Charleston ever-y Tuelday and Friday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Mondayby o
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah eve y
Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednesday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Charleston the next Taefday and Friday
by noon.
Tropofuls for this route tvH! be received iy the fcjl-majkr at
Savannah.
2. FromCoofahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
Receive the mail-at Coofahatchy every Tburfday by 6,
r. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning,
leave Beaufort every Friday'uy 3, ». it. and arrive 1
j at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. u.
Propotals for carrying the mail on this route will be re
ceived by the polt-mafler at Beaufort.
Note r. The Polt-mafter General may alter the times
fair, the arrival and departure of the mails at any time dn- •
ring the continuance of the contrails, he previoufiy ftipu-
lating an adequate csmpenfation for any extaa expencc ,j
chat may he oocafioned thereby. J t .; :
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents no(
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con- l
trad, the ccntraflor iriall forfeit one dollar, and if the j rj
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars Ihall be incurred.
Note 3(. Should any person matin; proposals ctefife an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, he mull state the alteration desired and the price
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration.
Nate 4. The contra&s are te be in operation on the
firft daytf April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABKRSHAM,
Pajl Mijier General.
General Post Office, J
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,17970
>an. 16. »aw6w.
Particular Teneriffe Wine, fat
50 Quarter-Cases Particular Tenericfe WINE,
OF a superior Quality,
For fair by A. MARPLL IS. IV. MORRIS,
No. 60 Dock-flrect.
February 8 w/&ml2t
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery. **
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64, ~
Siuth Second-Jlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, ~
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of | j[
the Legtflatur* of Pennfylvaaia, passed during the lall
feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough-os Heading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Ptire of 20,000 Dollars - 20,00©
1 do. of 10,000 do. - - io,Qoo .
,3 do. of 5,000 do. \ - 15,000 * nl
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - 8,000 bis
20 do. of 1,000 do. - - / 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - - t9is°°
80 do. of 200 do. - - 10*000
*OO do. of 100 do. ... 20,000
300 do. of 50 do. - - Pi
1 do. of 500 do. to be paidthe posses- ) Q
for f the firlldrawn no. > ®
5 dors of 3,000 do. to be paid poffeflors >
ofthfi fire last drawn noa {
9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
" / he
10,054 Prizes 300,000
19,946 Blanks —— Q f
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes Aiall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate '
picket, fabjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The c
Drawing will commence as fooiws the Tickets are disposed ai
t of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given. Q
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjbner, William IVit man,
* Jofth Hiejler, James Diemer, Thomas Dun das,
James May, John Otto % John Keim t Daniel Gtaeff\
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners. ti
Reading, May the 9th, 1796. * ir
Tickets in the Cahal Lottery, Nb. z, to fcc had at the w
p above office, where the earliest intormatfon of the draw- p,
" ing of the Walhington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's, i s
£ are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif d
tering are kept. p
| Tickets in the above Lottery to b« had at Mr, Sheri- v
dan's Race-street, John Hay, North Third-ftreot and It
' Henry Stayer's, German Town.
f January a 6 lawtf
e Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Secsnd street.
r yiCKET6 in the Canal Lottery, No. a, fpr faU—a
1 Check Book for .aanaination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.,
Check Books kept for examination and rc jittering, for f,
the City of Washington, No. z, and Pattefon Lotteries, t(
both of which are now drawing—information where p
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn Q
t tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- t ]
Fort Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School "Lottery, for y
examination.
The fubferiber foKcits the application of the public
and his friends, who with to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, a
See. or to obtain money on deposit of property,
fl %* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for j!
(I sale 4t Ten Dollers each, which will Itt drawn early in /
11 eiie Spring. ..
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 26, 1797. mth
Houses and Lots for sale, t l
a J I)Y the Subscriber, in the town of Weft-Chcfter, Chef- '■
JJ ter county, 15 mile, from Philadelphia, on the great 1
state-road, leading Westward Viz. No. I. A two-liory ■
Stone House, the corn«r of High and Gay ftreeti, 40 feet ■
le iront by 34 feet deep, including a very convenient (lore- .<
house : the House contains ten w»!l-Sniihed rooms, a kit
chen and entry : the Lot is 144 feet front an Gay-ftre.t, ■
—equal to any stand in West-Chester. No. J. A two-fto- i
■y r y stone house adjoining, 27 feet front, containing el«yen !
ie well-fir.ilhed rooms, both being ceiLed in the garrets, house I
ld and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c.—.cllari 1
|fc under both houses, with good ft able» on the lots. Thufe :
)e Houses are ahuoft new, done by good workmen, in i •
maUsrly manner. No. 3. a Lot 42 feet front. No. 4,
34 feet. No- 5, 44 feet. No. 6, 119 feet, all of them
ten rods deep. On two of the above are erected three leg
and trame houses, two stories high, cellars under the
,c whole, and a small liable to tach
e" The above Lots are fita.ted near the Court-Houfe. The
s. wlole will be exposed to PUBLIC SALE, on the 21ft and
22ddaysof February next, at two o'clock, when the con
dition will be made known Foffi flior. may be had the
hrft of April next. The Title isindifpinaVe.
JOHN KINNARD.
January it I l2*w 3 w
Washington Canal Lottery,
W H, RBAS Sc£
a Can il through the City of Waihrngton, fro ~th Po Do
tomacto the Eastern Branch tne
The following i. the SCHEME of No L
Vii :i Prize Of so.ooo dollars, io.ooo
1 ditto 10,000 ICfiOO
7liHdrawn? 3 5,000
Tickets, each 5
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
IO ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 *.OOO
ft ditto S° i
c 7jo ditto « , 69,008
To be for the Canal, »6,sje
5850 PriZM, 17S0°°
11650 Blanks, not two to a prlie.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - ITS < aco
The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<st for the punaual payment ol
the prizes. ... . , w
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thr '['ickets are fold, ef which timely the
notice will be given. ■
Such priee. as are not demanded in fix montbt aitw the ftni
drawing is finifhed, (hall be considered as reUnffa'iftied for tic!
the benefit »f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly. 5
C&zntd) NOTLEY YOUNG, aft.
1 DANIEL CARKOLL, o/O wil
LEWIS DEBLOIS, the
GEORGE WALKED, At
Avm. M.DUNCANSON, i
THOMAS LAW, t
JAMES BARRY. !
City of Walhipjr.on, Feb. 11. 5 1
did
FOR SALE, ! e 0 r
About 1,600 acres of Land, tici
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennfylvinu, in H
faur separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
WrrL Blackburn, Lo
No. 64, South Second-fti-tet
January 16. «nwftf
A Principal Book-Keeper
IS wanted in one of the Public Offices. Enquire of the
Priattr. February -»o §6'
Dr. Perkins
Tntohms the Citizens of Philadelphia, that he has taken
! .1 lodgings for a few days, at the Indian' Queen, in 4th iil
flreet. He will be happy to wait on any persons in this
city, between the hours of 9 and 1, who wish to fatisfy
themfelvesol the efficacy of hie Q
PA TEN T MKT AILIC POIN TE, O
And wiil operate gratis for the relief of the poor : the
instruments, and the right of using them, are for sale at d
his lodgings. /
Subjoined,,are Extracts from a Pamphlet, containing ma
ny remarkable cases, attciled by charailers of the high
est refpecftability.
Extracjs from Letters to the Author cf the Metallic Discovery.
Pierpont Edwards, Esq. Diftriisl Attorney for the ft ate
of Connecticut.
New-Haven, O(Sober 7, 1796.
Dear Sir,
I fhould[have written you last week, Ijad I then been
able to,afcertain certain fafls, the rumour of which I had "•
heard. A Mrs. BeeTs, a mar neighbour to me, the 'wife
of Eben Beers, and daughter of captain Samuel Hoggins,
of this town, had been, for fourteen weeks, exceedmgly
diftreffvd \ ththe Rheumatilm, to such a degree that for 1
fourteen weeks previous to the 29th of last month, (he
had not been able to walk across the room even with crut- 1
ches, save only once, when she made out with the assist- 3
anctxif cratches to hobble part of the way across her room.
On the 2-^tii ot September last, ihe procured* set of -/our }
metallic fuhftances, and in less than an hour after ffie had
begun to ul'c them, in the manner direcSed by you, foe'
Tufc front her chair, and walked about her house, and on ■j-j
the next day Ihe went abroad to her neighbours having y c
thrown jfide her crutches. I have this day paid her a visit
in company with her lather, and Timothy Jones, Esq. or
who lives in the street where she resides and dire&ly op- tn
pofiti to her residence, and with Capt. Ahel Burrett, who
is her neighbor, and lives within eight yards of her ya
door. I requested her to relate her cafe over in their j-„
presence, which Ihe did, and these genttamen all with one tr(
voice, supported, from their own knowledge, her flory. * t
It is a duty which yoa owe, yourfelf and the world to pro- , 3
mulge this event. J am, very refpe&fully, t[l
Your obedient f*rvant,
PjRRPONT EDWARDS.
N. B. She fays her fever has left her, her appetite has
returned, and she is in a fair way to be relloieti to perfect w
health. n
Rev. Mr. Ss aldivc, of. Salem.
1 TUisjnay certify, that the fubferiber, in his visits among
1 hi' people, has used Dr.Perkins's metallic points, to re- o(
Ucvo pains and inflammations of various kinds, and has
' fuccseded to his aftonilhment. They have seldom failed
' to relieve the head-ach; t«eth-acb, ague in th« face, iu
: fiaaimation in the eyes, cramp, cholic, rhe.matifm, pains
1 of the breast and'fide, fcil.s, scalds and burns—Sometimes '
" there has been a perse& cufe from one operation. A lad "
r who had been confined three days with hijh symptoms of
a fever, very hot and full of- pain, by an operation of the
* f oints, designed to relieve his head, his face turned pale
' and cold, his fever and pain immediately left him, and in
' a few days he was aut of doors ; the year before, at the _
fame season, he was taken with the fame fyraptoms, and j
r lay extremely sick forty days. The efficacy of the olctal
-1 lie points has gained great credit in this town.
JOSHUA SfALOJNQ. 1
Iljcember 5, 1796.
Rev. Elhanan Winchestir.
} certify, that on the 21ft of March 796, I saw Dr. "
Perkins's method of cure by pointed metallic inltrumenu,
tried with success in the poor-house or bettsring-houfe in v
Philadelphia j especially npou a man who was unable to
c liit his right hand to his head, as was tried beforehand, but .
y who after a few minutes operation, was able to remove it "
t i-.t pleasure ; and in my fight, put it with e.afe on the top '
- of his hea l and back of his neck, and in all directions.
Nearly the fame eifeft took place upon a woman ; and v
:, all that I saw treated, profeffed that their pains <-cased r
1- after being treated a (hort time : and several cattje yolun
n tarfly, and in my hearing thanked the Dr. for cures he 1
"e had performed on them ahout eight weeks before, in re- c
rs moving pains from them, which they declared had not
~e fin; e returned :—fo that from wHa( I saw with my own
a and what I have heard, I have great hopes that this
f, methed will greatly tend to alleviate the miseries of man
n kind. elhanan winchestsji
g Philadelphia, April 4, 1796. 1
ie ExtraS from a Pro**idence Papar.
Communication.
Ie Dr. Perkins's invention for removing pains' from the
id human body, begins to obtain reputation in proportion
3- to its utility and efficacy. The fimpligity of the operati
ie on was- at Srft an obstacle to its credit; but the flood of c
vidence in its favor, from ailuai experiment, is at length
too powerful to be refill.d.
1 tbruary 7. djweetf j
Canal Lottery. No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery authorized Dy i;i aft entitled
"An aft to'enable the fr-'iident and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufqueharmah navigation, to raise, by
way of Lottery, the i'urn of Four Hundred Thousand
Dollars, for the purpose of completing the works, in
their acU of incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
I Prize of twenty thonfand dollars, to.ooo
I of ten thousand dollars, 1c,009
i of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofTeflors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the lift
day's drawing, at which time there shall
not be lel'-s than 50© numbers undrawn, 20,000
10 of two thousand dollars each, 20,000
so of one thousand dollars each, 20,000
43 of five hundred dollars each, 21,500
100 of two hundred dollars eachi 20,009
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
220 of fifty dollars each, 11, oca
29,500 of five dollars each, 147,500
' 30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Sixdollaisfor each ticket will only be demanded at
the time of sale.
AH prizes shall be paid ten days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand oi the polTeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjedt to a deduction of fifteen percent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within J2 months
after the Drawing is finifhed, of which public notice
willtie given, shall be conlidercd as relinquished for
the use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Cartal Navigation—and
the President and Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan
- dish Forde, Francis Well, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and diredt the mode of disposing of the
tickets ; which committee shall deposit the money in
j Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o
! pened for the Lottery.
, At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16, '97,
Resolved, That the committee for conducting the
Lottery be directed to commence the Jdrawing on the
firft day of March next. ■ .
ExtratS from the minutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball,.
. John Strinmetz,
: Siand'ifb Forde,
Francis Weft, }> Managert.
James M l Crea,
Johu Miller, jun.
IVzlkdm, Montgomery, _
\ Jan. 20. thkf.tf
* City of Waftiington.
SCHEME of the Lottery fortfte improvement
of the Federal-City.
e A magnificent } so,ooo dollars,,3c f go 9
t dwelling-house, J cash 30,000, art 5
I ditto 15,000 &. cash 25,0c a 40,009
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 50,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash io,opo 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are _ « 10,000
lo do. i,®oo - - io,ooi>
n »o do. 500 - - 10,000
d ■» 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
s, 400 do. »5 - 10,000
y 1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
ir 15,000 do. 10 * - 150,000
ie .
t- 16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar*, 400,000
ie N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
11 Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the la st drawn
;£ ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
K And approved notes, securing payment in either money
I' or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received for
'* any number not lets, than 30 tickets.
" u This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of thepri
-5 vate buildings to be erected in the City of Waihington
ir Two beautiful designs ire already iele.dWd for the entire
1e fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawings
y* itispropofedtoerecltwo centreandfourcorwer buildiags,
l ~ as loon as pofiible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner dcfcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
jj? the necessary expenses of printing, &c i x-and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Uaivcrfity, to be creiled within the city of Washington.
The real fccuHtigivrrr-for the payment nf the Prize,,
are held by the Prefidcot and two Directors of the Bank
c " of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
a? mount ot the lottery. _
Ed SAMUEL BLODGET.
11 ~ Tickets raay be had at the Bank of Colombia ; of
" S lames Weft St Co. Baltimore; erf Peter Gilman, Bolton;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
'"j. Cooper's Ferry. *°
he Will be Sold, by Public Vendue,
'}<= On the 9th ef March next,
A P L A A T A T TO N,
. TN Ridley township, Delaware county, state of 1 enn,
n , a 1 fylvania, eleven miles from Philadelphia, and one Iron*
the great road leadisg thence to Chester ; eontai mug one
hundred and twenty-three acres, twenty-three ot which
are woodland, and eighteen meadow. On the prennle*
there are, a dweiling-houfe, barn, and other eut-houles,
, in good repair ; a good spring of water close to t.ie house,
and a fine stream of water runs through tne preimies; by
which pait of the meadow is watered, &c.
£ " On the fame day, the flock on the said farm ; eonfift
intc of horses, cows, sheep, hogs, &c. A cart, plough,
:rt harrow, and other farming uttufils ; also a jarge copper
°P {li l, with the household and kitchen furniture, among
, which are beds and bedding, an eight day deck, and ma
?'J nv other articles too tediousjte mention.
Thefale to begin at ten o'clock m the forenoon, where
= "*
Ridley, February 13 14 tthf n 9
wn Partnerihip diiiolvcd.
r-1-ipns is to notify the Publie, and. all pcrlons concerned,
J. that the Partnership of BLACK '<£ WELLS, deal*
er.in Dry Coods, rfj^uary
Philadelphia, Febnsary 14, '797 1 3W _
atU PRINTED BY JOHN FENNQ»
U; —No. 119—
~ * CHPSHOT-STRSET.
L f t [Pricc Eight Dollars p»r