of tije amd Philadelphia Dully Advertiser.
NUMDF.HI 576 J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For I) R T GVO DS.
( Fcs^noen—Kdward Fox, No. 56, t ]
. ) south n
t ~ 9 " Afttrmi.jn—Footman & Co. No. c
.South Frout ltreet.
(' Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
a \ Auftion, No. 73 south Front-street.
"•]• Afternoon—William Shannon, No. "
V. 183 Higb-ltroct.
Mr j rj Afternoon —Peter ilenfon, No. 74
, h rhira-ibvet. t
r , C Forenoon—Edward Fox. (
,lur f a y ( Afternoon—John Connelly.
„ /Forenoon—Shannon.
"' u y \ Afternoon —John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfai.
For Hamburgh,
The good Brig
jSlil SUKEY,
'■ rd J '~ : A Isaac Vredenburgki Majler,
NOvV' lying at Clifford's wharf, in eomplet e |
order to take in a cargo, and will receive ;
freight oi> low terms.
Pft-afe to apply to GEORGF. DOBSONj
No. 25 south Third-street.
N. B A few ipafTengers can be accommodat
ed, if speedy application is made.
Sept- is § ■ ]
HAVANNA SUGARS. " «
FOR SALC, j
1400 boxes and casks prime white Ha*an
na SUGARS, <
On board the (hip Hamburgh Packet, Silas ;
8 "am, Matter, now lying at Marcus Hook. J
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to 1
Capt Samufl Smith, in Front, near Wal- 1
nut thrift* or to '
Philip Nicllin, & Co.
Who ofter the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
Pnr SALE or CHARTER. \
She is"3ao tons register, coppered to the bendi,
fajls remarkably faft, and nan be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few days. ,
Sept. ii. Aiw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.'live, William Williams, Mafler,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingptvorih Co.
Wilmington, Sept.il. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or Charter, and
now ready to receive a cargo
ot> t)nard. at Wilmington. App'.y as above.
For Savannah,
The faft failing ship,
SWIFT PACKET,
£-s>']■ jPatrick Gribdin, MaAer,
Now tying opposite the mouth
of Frankford Creek, has handibme accommoda
tions for paflengers, and will fcil on or about
the 1(1 »f Oiflober.
For freight or pafTige apply to the mailer on
hoard, or of the fubferibers at Frankford, 5 1-2
miles from Philadelphia.
Nalbro & y. Frazier.
Frankford, Sept. 18. dtiflO
" For HAMBURGH,
r T" , HE Copper Bottomed Ship
-*• FAVORITE, John
11tirTSr Jl Thompson, Matter, now at
Bright'* wharf, and will be rea
dy to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargo being engaged
and to go on board. The ship is so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
11 now in compleat order. For Freight or Paf
f.ige, please to applv at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. 12, North Third street,
or to the Maftpr on bord.
August 20.
For SALE,
On board th» said Ship, Swedifli Iron, aflorted
Hollowand Window Glass, Demyjsfcns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I Jtl
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&rcuw
T O B E S O LD,
And pojfejjioa given immediately,
\ IjAHGE cwoftory brick House, handsomely
situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
ajiJ a large entry on each floor, and five roenis in
the garret, a range of back buildings JI feet in
Jsngth, and apiazzaof 57 feet. Thereisapump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
flables,'one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two ftahles for 37 horses.
thinefs and pleafaotnefs ot its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
nuar the town, reader it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, it« central pofiticn, and the largeness of
the fiahUs.mak? it', every wayfuitablefcratavcrn,for
which it ht6 always been confiderd as a capital
fta.id. Inquire on the premise?, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 25. 29 —diw2awtf
" NOTICE.
Ir Thedy O'Hara, who some years fincekept
SRehcol at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore', Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, rr write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marfbal, near Warv.ick, Cecil County, Eastern
Chore, Maryland, fcom whom he will receive in
terefring information.
A-itufl 4- mw&f+w
to BE SOLD VERT CHEAP !
A Light W A GGON almoll new, with a frame—
pnd a pair of harness (llrglilh collars) h«s never
been uied—price 90 Dolls.
A Hnrfe 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness .120.
Enquire No. 331, Market-Greet
Auajjft diw
' WANTED
BM's on Amsterdam, at a fight not exceeding fix
*v days, and with approved Indorfers, to the amount
us tvo hundred thousand guilders—for which cash
v ill bo pai'! at the rate of thirty eight cent* a gtiil
.^■r Aypliijt'ons to be made to Gforge yimpfon,
l|fa. Caibkr oiNiie Bank of tht yujted States,
ilsept*. 14. dtf
PHILADELPHIA': WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 27, 1797.
The Panneriliip,
UNDER the firm of FREEM.AN *s* Company,
is difFolvtd by mutual coifjfcnt. All perlotis
having any demands against tMtfaid House are de- \
llrcd to render the fame to T. B, Freeman; and I <
those indebted to the House are deiired to mnJse fiyy- | 1
ment to hira—By whom bufinds will in future be I j
carried on, at hit Store j N<j. 3y,ttourh Frout'ftreet.
Augujl' 7. eo4*w
Young Hyfou Tea.
43 cliells ot a superior quality—Alio,
100 Ho.of Hvfon, i
Imp orted in tlie IVoodrop Sims, and for sale by
the' Albfcj-iter, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haigbt.
June 21. eotf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
Aad forfait by John Morton, No. 116, South '
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin
Yi j .** )*1 L>lu
oung Hyson C
Imperial j K
April 20. . ebtf
'l he Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts lrom the GEORGE Tavern,
at lhe corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Turf day, Yi<u>fJay, and Satur
day, at \ o'clock, in the norning ; arrives at Oo
vcr the-Tuft day, at Snawhill'the second day, at
Northampton Court Houfc the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paffengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet td convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tueiday, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday ;|puts up at Snow
Hill night, at Dover the id tighr.and ar
rives in Philadelphia in. the evening of (he thud
daj'.
l'he distance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is 8o miles Ids than on any stage route
between those places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is molt excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly to return the whole iare to any
paiTenger, who, after having performed th-is route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim. eotf.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary* of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
/r RIT TE N Br M/MS E£ /.
This publication presents a concifc statement
of the bale means pradtifed by the of the
United States to asperse the charadiers of thofo
plrfons who are confidtred as hollilc to their disor
ganizing fch«*n*a. It atfJ contains the cot
refp«ndcr.ce between Mr. Hamilton and Mctfn.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab e, on the fub
jed of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynold* and his wife toMr.Ha
milton, proving beyond the pollihility of a doubt,
that the conned ion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraay on the part
of the latter and his alTociates to extort money.
£3" A discount of one third from the retail price
tvill be made in favor oi \yholefaic purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Yoono.
Avguß 15.
~ No. isß.
Dtfirid of Pennsylvania, t* <w'rt :
(l s) R E ir Remembered, that on th«
*• '' 1) twenty sixth day of Juty, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of .America, John Fenno, of the said dif
tridl,hath deposited in this office the titld of a book,
the rh»ht whereof lie claims as proprietor, in the
'words following, to wit :
•• Ohfervations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of 41 The History of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in which tfitf charge
44 of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfeU "
In conformity to rjie a«sfc of the Corgrcfs of the
Ucited States, entituled, 44 An ad for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors an<? propri
etors of such copies, during tht times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the DijiriEl of Pcrtfrfylvania.
Tuly 27. W4W
Mrs. G RAT TAN
, INFORMS her friends,ant! the public in general,
that her houfc, No. 192, will con
tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging in a separate room, ten
. dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
. For the convenience of those gentlefnen who
[ have not tfcair amilies in town, Mrs. ©rattan
l will receive gentjenien to dine at half a dollar
f a day. -9- —
| Imported in the latefl arrivals from
I Amflerdam and Hamburg, andforfaleby
B. & J. Bohlen,
A large ajfortment of _/f ne French Cambrics,
Platillas Ruffia.jiidDutch sailcloth
Bnttannias Writing, port, and print
t Rouanes ing paper
Brown' Holland Du'ch calf lkin«
. Checks and (Iripes Prime madder 1
e Ticklenburgj Shell'd Barley
II Oz*aburgs Looking glalies
- U hite (heetings Hollow glafe ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Col Tee trolls »
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives
Black'and whitelaces Toys aflorted in boxes
Bed Holland Cin in pipes
Londdn particular Madeira Wine
July 14. m&thtf
Cedar Shingles.
. fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
i t .L Rhi'jjles of* superior quality, for sale at 13
I, dollars psr thousand.
J" William Hallo well,
No. 193 North Tliiri-jlreet.
July 17. soxit
By John Fenno, N a - up Chefnut Street.
GUSTOM-HOUS?',
Philadelp!Srf-t. 22d, 1797. .
THE Merchants who s ihis time prefer hav
ing their VI ITrli and Merdiar.dizs entered and 1
cleared at Chefteror Marcus Ho. k, —are here- '
by notified, That in compliance with th .ir >le : <
fire, and upon a full convi/t on til it the measure J
will be mutually beneli ial to ' ' 1 *n I to the i
Ufrited States. 'l'll itetfr- ot.i. '. v'tftom 1 " ha* '
made artangemenls to in n.liffi for lomc time «
bi '.ichf H of the euHoni-houfe at those places, <
wjiert every accommodation in his power will <
Bi given to the merchants. dlw 1
TO BE SOLD, |
And immediate pojfejjion given,
A Convebient well finished Brick 1 enement, i
J- y with a cook house and other out houfes,4ku- I
atcd in a of the borough of Wilming- ]
top, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground :
ha* for'y f.ct front on Weft-flreet, and extendi j
through the square to Paftur .--street, on which b \
creeled a flable and carriage honfe,
ALLEN M'LANE. \
Wilmington, Aug. *o. j
Lately Published, !
In one vol. B,vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold '
by WILL'AM YOUNG, corner of '
Chefifut Prtjts,
A Collefh'on of Papers on the fuhjeft of
Billfouß Fevers, preralept in the United
States for a few years past. (
Cotypi/td by ICO AH WEBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Dodors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, I'aylor, 'Btamfay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagtou. See. &c.
r ; ft
City ComimJJioaers OJfiac,
August 29, T797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Cowuron Council, passed lhe iiAAzy of May last. ,
Propofk!-in writing will he receiv the City
Coramiffioners for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for o«e
▼ear to firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city— ]
The wharf and binding on Vine Street,
Also on Faflafra*,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefmit and Wakmt Streets, Ifrraw Bridge, with
tht Scale and Fifti Houfeg, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets. %
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middh ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as lhall be occupied by any building* ere<St
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or b«
necessary for the toll-gates.) \
Ang. 3 ' x 3tawim.
LOST,
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Bine Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
ha rel and silver fight; on the plate of the butt are
th« letten "Jamaica, Q_ 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock '• London" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to Jain Btnnard,
at the sign of the B'ue Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, lhall reaeive a reward
of Four French Crowns, ,
Sept. 12. *3t
DUTY ON^CARTRiScEsT
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a A of Congress ef the
United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the aßth day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on fortl\e conveyance of persons,
which lhall by or for any perfoo, for his
or her own use, out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paflengers, the duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upou every Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Pofl Chariot, 12 dolt,
upon every Post Chaise, 12 dol«.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upop ev?ry Goachee, 9 dols.
upon other Caorhge*, having pamvlwork
above, with blinds, glalfes or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and tof>s with steel fpruigs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carnages,with wood
en.or iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols,
upon ChaHei with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriagcs, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with ftecl or
iron springs, 3 dok
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a doln.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
pofts and tops, and reding up
on wooden spars, 2 dols-
Tkc Coile&ors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the DiftriA of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September n*xt, for
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown ; at the noufe of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of \£iich all persons poffelled of such Carriages are
defirld to take notice.
Notice is also given^
TO all retail dealers in Witjes, and fort in dis
tilled fpirirtious liquors that licences will bf grant
ed to them; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailjng of Wines, in a Itfs quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the buftnefs of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than so gallons, at
the (fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised t« grant such licences.
WILLIAM NIOHQLS,
Infpcflor of the Revenue of the firft fut
vcy of the Diftrift of Pennsylvania.
Office 61 Infpeftion at ")
Germantow, nth - J
IMPORTED
In tho (hip America, James Ewin», from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Platillas
T icklenburgs
Coatfe,Linent
Tapes
Looking Glasses 7 in (jfc.
Glaft Tu niblers j
FOR SALE B7
George Pennock.
Atgufl T4i , . 3 axv>
: Acl laying Duties on Stamped Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above aSi maybeluid at
the Office of tho Gazette of the States, No
119, Chefnut-ftrcst- J u! J'
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
ON Friday the 19th instant, precisely at ihree
o'clock in the afternoon, at the sign of the
king of Prussia. near the market house in Ger
maniou n, a two flory stone '.)wellinghoiife,bu"n
and stable and lot of 1 arr.es 2q 16 perches of
ground, part * * which is an orcbjrd tif cxeellcnt
.fruit trees, fituaie near the middle of Gerrnan
"tonrj|r oft. Uj*' th raft fide ai rlic main street
or road, cdntaimnj in front on the laid (trret
or road 149"feet nine inches ;.bou\(ded l.y groutjd
of Dr. Betton snd others and oppolitc to the
messuage and lot of Melchior Ming, The above
lot is good clover meadow, and has a tlever
failing dream of water running through it.
Also threC other lots of ground, each contain
ing about tu o acrefs, situate on the foulh'eaft j
fid# a c Rittenhoufe's Mill road,commonly called ]
Peter Smith's Jjrie, in Germantrtwn townfltip, ,
at, the distance of 270 yards from the south welt
fide t)f the Germantown main flreet, bounded
by lands of Conrad Car|fctiter, Jatties Ogleby,
Jacob Keout, and Melchior Ming. The above
lots are hijth and pleafmtly situated, command
ing a pleating prolpeft of Germantown and the
Schuylkill and Wiflahircon hills, and are well 1
adapted for gentlemen's country iefrs. The 1
said Iqts are now in clover, and there are or. the I
fame upwards of 200 grafted fruit-tre?s; ' 1
A good and iodifputable title, clear of, all in
cumbrances, will be given to the purcbafer '
twenty days after the sale, upon the jvyment
of one half of the purchase money, and fe uring 1
the other half by mortgage upon the purchased i
premifeß.
Po/Tdiion of the firft lot arvl premi
ses may be had on the 1 7111 April next, and im
mediate poffeffionTnay be had of the thiee last
mentioned lot-.
Any perfrn, withing to view lhe shove pre
mi!e', may fee the' fame b) applying to Benj.
IjeJiraao, >B Germantown near the Market
fioulV. ED >VARD FOX, Audioncer.
Germantown, 2»d Sept. 1797. dtS
Sundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of Washing
ton will be exposed to Public Sale, by the fub
feribers, on the second Monday in O&ober.next,
at. the Little Hotel, in the said City, to com
mence at 10 o'clock :
Square No. 32, 4», 43> 44, 47. 48, 49. s°. SS,
■66, b7,68,69, 70, 73.74,75, 76, 77. 78.79.1°1.
102 105,118,119,120,141, 61,56, 84,104, 87,
88, 89, i®4, 124, r25, 120, 61, 166, 80,103,
square eafl: of square 87,fquare south of square 104,
square north of square 81, square east of square 88,
square north of square 128.
These Lots are advantageously situated in the
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be
peremptorily fold; clear and valid titles will b«
made to the puichafer, on' receipt of the purchase
money. Terms of sale, are, good notes, negotia
ble at the Bank of Columbia, one fourth part in
one month, one other fourth in three months, one
other fourth in five months, and the remaining one
fourth ill seven months.
WILLIAM DEAKINS, ju*.
URIAH FORkEST.
Sept. 21. dts
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver—for Sliuirg, Plaiting, and Rolling
Mills.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR fiiperioritj conjjls in being free from
holes and honeycombed places, <wbic!f are com
monly found in rollers ca/l in sand, or clay
moulds. Theft patent rollers are cajl in iron
moulds, prtiHOnjly healed, and ivill be found to
be more denfc, Jolid and durable than any tellers
heretofore used. Another important at/vantage
they, hrroe wer ethers, is, that the necis require
no turning, but are vnmedaitely fit for use, and
from their accuracy, run with less J'riHion, and
require ttfs water to make them perform their
work. 1 bey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nethatiiel Good
win, or of Messrs. Thatcher arid Hay-ward.
BoJloh, Aug. 31.
Sept. 19. §('t.
Mr. LATL SON,;
WITH an intention to render service, and unde
ceive thole Performer*, who during his ahfence Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, tftinl.s it
would be wrong in him not to inform thpfe that
are engaged, that it is withou. his approbation, and
that hewill not be in any way answerable for r
layruond'i engagement'..
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. IS, 7 (,t - _
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEA'T,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the psoperty afligned to them lov the securing
the payment of the note?, aceeptancss, mil en
dorfeinents given by Edward Fox, for the use
oftheftid James GreenUaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, ate
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their refoedlive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the' 2cth day of O&ober next;
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment.
Applications to be made\t fonth.eaft corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
dock every liay, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller. Jun.
'johri AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, Augufl_iii,_i797 ! d
Just published,
A fid to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. IsS P.
Kice, No. 50, Market-street i J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnyt-ftreet, and W. Young,
porner of Chefnut and Second-ltreets,
An accurate System of Surveyings
IN WHICH IS CONTAINFD,
I- fratflions, in a plain, coucife,
and easy manner.
2. The extraction of the fqunre root.
3. Plain trigonometry, reilangular aftd ob
lique.
4. An'exafit method to oft up the contents
o"f lands. /
5. Fit 14 furveyinp.
' The ■uT.olebeinu' perfo-med without the use
of scale and corapa'lTej, 011 a table of logarithms.
In which is given fume account of the variation
t of the needle, and the causes of its attrition.
3 Dy SAMU2L MOORE.
Au S ufi». .2SW2W
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North I'ifth ftrect, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine in cases *n4
boxer , fix years old
Wmt in casks
Tkklenburgs
Russia Sail Cloths . •
Ravens Du tc
Linen ■'
lieffians
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
Common German Cloth
Ab affortnient of -black coloured Ribbo®
Fine German Laces
Abti.ut twelve tons F.uffia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Window Glass Auir, 20 —mw
: l HiS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for falc by 7 H9MJS, DOB SON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second ftreet 4
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENVLE BUDGET OPENED.
Confiftlng of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
the iaftrukfUon and amufemeut of YOUNC* PER
SONS-—Six Volumes handsomely printcdand behind
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book r.eeds only to he known to be
univcrfally efiefcmed" one of the mod valuable pub
lications tli t can be put into the hancs of young
persons.
" Ddi&tful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how t« fl,<;ot.
To pour the frefh lnfrft&ion o'er the mind,
To enlivening fpirit,-and to fix
The generous ptirpofc in the glowing bread."
Thomson.
Augufl 24. mwf4w
this D aY is published, ~
By THOMAS DOBSOW, at the Stone Houfa,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Voung I. idfci, on improving and in
tereiling fubjeils.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame r'; Canlm
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onfne jGriper, and neatly lound t
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales »f extraordinary diftreft, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to fc
licit notice, where in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, btcaufe
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
character is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of rtal and attainable excel
lence.
The publiflier waß fomuch pleased with the per*
fal.thathe was persuaded he should do a pleasing
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. Augufl 24 —mw4tr
To Majlers and Pilots bringing up VcJJcls
•from Foreign Ports to this City.
WHereas sundry infringements have lately been
made on the laws of this i: ate for the pro.
! venting pestilential or infedtious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
| expedient at this time to publish the following cx»
1 racls from the laws of nJ April, 1794, 7th and
Bth fedions:
». HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
ExtraS of an aft for feenring the city and pott
of Philadelphia from the introduction of pesti
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And lie it further cna&ed, that every
tnafier or captain of any fliip or vessel coming from
fe.i (vide!? actually employed n the coafhrg trade
excepted) and bound to any port cr place within
the jtirildidlion of Pennfylvaria,l}ia'l ceufehis ship
o* vessel to be brought to anchor, or ijtherwife flay
ed in the flrcam of the river Delaware, oppofita Ki
ohe Health-Office on Statn-Ifland aforefaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
c< rtificate or till of heal h from the Resident I'hy
fician. And it, previoufiy to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any mafler or captain shall
ftHter hi* (hip or vessel to approach neartr than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
fltalUaiid, cause orfufftr to be landed, cr brought
on ffiore, at any place or pore within this Coru
nmnv.-ealth, or at ar.y other port or place,, with the
intent cl being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if afterrecfiving fueh bill of health
o. tertificate, he shall negltcl or rcfufe to deliver
the sara- to the Health-Officer, such mafler or pap
ain ftpl! forfeit atia p-j, tor each and every such
offinqc, thefumof rive iiindies dollars.
And the captain or mafler of every ship or ves
sel shall feud a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and shall in like manner
conv y him back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, or in rase any subse
quent. examination by the Health Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the dire&ions of
thi« aift, the mafler or captain shall expose or cause
to be exposed to thefaarch of the Resident Phyfk
cian.or of the Health Officer and Confuiting Phyfi
ciin (as the ease may be) each and-every part of the
fhi» or vessel, and fhaif present to his view each
and every person cr persons on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfaiSory answers make
to all such queflions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination shall ask relative to the
health of any pot tor place fr«m> which the snip or
vessel failed, or has since touched at—the number
of persons on board when the ship or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken on board, and. when
and whererefpeflively—what persons on hoard—
s theyhaVe been during the voyage, or shall, at
the time of examination, be infected with any pet
tilential or contagious difcafe—and what is the pre
sent state and condition of the perfotis on board
with refpeit to their health or diseases. And H
any master «r captain shall refufe to expose as afor»-
aid, to the fcarch of any of the officers aforefaid.
n if he shall ctvceal any sick person, or in any other man*
j i>- deceive the proper officers aforefaid in bis
lich captain or matter,for every such offence, shall
lorfeit and pay the fuel of five hundred dou
laks.
Sect. 8. And if say yerfon or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) Dull
go 011 beard any vessel, before the mailer.therepS
has received a certificate of healih in the manner
directed, every person so offending, flail pay th»
um of ONE DVXEIED DOLLARS.
IT being al,fo!utelyneceffary that the foregoing
ftSions filould be purdually complied with, th#
■ fubferiber. in compliance wuh his duty, tmifl ex
• ad a rig 'oKS nhf.rvance of fame, or else b«
1 under the neccflity of putting the laws In force.
W M, Ai.I.KN, Health Officer of tin
tut tf IkUaJk-tfLh.
. July 14- <*g»r
\} r OLVMR XIIcgasettg*
P f/I.L A DEL P HI A,
WF-DNLiSDAV KVENJNG, fftPTEMBtR
For the Gazette of the United Stats.6.
t-IR. FEN NO,
THERE is a certain c'afs of people in
*ur country, who term therrtfelves " exclu
sive patriots''*—" true republicans." Some
of thefs men are perpetually railing at the
mcafures of our general government, and
abuling thole characters which have been
felefted by the citizens of the United State>
to fill the higheil ofaces. These people
have oftea talked of B itifii influence and
British gold. They have, on ail becafmns,
pt'oteftcS that a fhamcfnl prediledion sot
. the British government has infliienced the
conduft of the officers of the United' Stales,
From the account which these exclusive
patriots give of themselves, and of the men
cntrufted by the people, one would fuppofc
that none <sonldbemordmmaculate than they,
and none more treacherous than those offi
cers. Let us for a moment set the names ol
•some of the most difti'nguilhed exclusive pa
triots along fide some of th« names of those
Vi|e arilYocrats,' those treacherous servants,
as they have been termed. The people in
the cpuotiy hear the, words aristocracy,
-Britilh influence, British gold—odious terms!
—but they are sometimes at a loss to know
vtho applied to. Tell the people,
then, Mr. Fenn<i, in plain language, that
the mca whom they have entrusted for more
than twenty years past, have suddenly turn
ed traitors 1 tha,t these terms are meant to
el iminate Washington, Adams, Jay, Hamil
ton, Knox, Pickering, and men of like
character. Say to the public,that these men
r have abandoned the principles thfy efpoiifed
end advocated during out- druggie for inde
pendence ;—that after they had grown grey
in the service of their, country, they all at
c:ice prostituted the intercfti of that country
fbr the lucre of British gold ; —that those
vejry men, who, in 1776,br0ke and,trampled
on British chains, have, in 1796, offered
themselves to be slaves again. But when
you reaeat those charges; let it be known
whose language you have adopted. • 'Tis
the language of exclusive patriots. Pray
who are these citizens that claim this pre
eminent title to virtue and patriotism ?
Who are those men who admit no ether
men's claims to public virtue and integritv ?
How many proofs gf fidelity, "attachment
and ability, have they afforded their fellow
citizens ? * I b*ve heard that their virtue is
so d'ftinguijhed, that many of their a&ions
stand recorded on the archives of France.
N Allow mc to mention the names of a few of
the most dittinguifhed patriots, such as A(Jet,
Bache, • Blount, Dallas, Findley, Fauchet,
Gallatin, Genet, Giles, lieib, Livingflon,
Mifflin, M'Lean, M'Kean, Monroe', Ran
dolph, Smiley and I have men
tioned the names of Adet, Genet and Fau
chet, becaafe it has of late obtained belief
i ' *hat a Frenchman may be an American pa
, triot, and an Araeriaan a French patriot.
I shall not dare to fay any thing rcfle&injr
upon any of these gentlemen whose names 1
have mer/tioned; their merits are well known.
"Were I now speaking of Washington, or
Adams, I might fay what I pleased. They
are old servants, and acctiftomed to rough,
and what some term ungrateful, treatment.
But if I was to insinuate that one of the firft
Mentioned gentlemen, and the most zealous
exclusive patriot, was a French printer;—a
young rtan who was scarcely oiit of his lead
ing ftrj' n K s w hcji the American Cincinnatus
was fighting our battles:—that one of them
was detested in ♦ plot for whi<;h he was ex
pelled the Senate of the United States :
that some of them fomented tht western in
-furreCtion :-*-that one oT them was cashiered
for giving occafioh to F.",uchet to fay, " thus
thifr pretended patriots have their price —I
fay, were I.to even hint any one of these
charges, it would be treason. Wet£ Ito
fay that one of them, in the charafter of a
minister to France, bought ruined noble
men's palaces, and wanton'd there in luxury
and wealth ; b?and caressing those
men who insulted our government, and ruin
ed b?.!f of the merchants in America, it
would be a3 much as nrty life was wortr^: —
Therefore mind, reader, I profefs that I
lay at these mea's doors no charges of this
nature. These men'are-exclufive patriots.
"What is a Washington compared with a
M'Kean ? The latter has always be?n true
to his principles. He never changed his
party in his life; —he never 'was a violent
eonftitut;«nalift —then a fedcralift, and upw
an anti-fedcralift ; —he never was more afraid
of doing tight tf)an of going home. Would
you think of comparing Washington with
Randolph, or Adams with Blount ? Can
the names of Washington, or Adams, be
mentioned at the fame time with those of
your Burrs, your Beckleys, your Gallatins,
your Livingftons, your MifflinS, yourSnii
leys and your Swanwicks. None of these
men gamble all night, and in the morning
preach up patriotism and national grajitude
*jn the councils of our country. For instance,
what man can be more pun&ual, more honest,
ir.jfie charter more sober, more choice and
exaft hi his company, than Mifflin ? What
man ever more punctually paid his debts
than Livingfton ? He is not one of your
people who can go to jail and fettle off all
accounts with five shillings in the pound, and
then talk unblufhingly of national faith and
private Integrity.
I think Mr. Fenno, it w.mld be a good
tiling ti» have noted in the dire&ories to be
found in our principal cities, against the
name of each citizen his political profeflion ;
which mioht be done with the addition of
a single lettur. Suppofc the letter Dto
iland for democrat, and the letter F for fe
dcralift: ; a man might then form not an in
accurate opinion of the relative virtue of ;
the two parties, by comparing the private 1
characters «f,the different partisans; Peo- ;
pie may fay what they pleafc about princj- 1
I '
pt« and fc;iti:n-ntt fupportlng themfclvea
but I do not fnbfcrihe to their opinion.—
Could much edification be expe&ed from
lefttire on 'nonefiy read by a pick-pocket, c
irom an e.ffay oa sensibility written by
hangman ? There are two parties in cu
country. Tell me which of those parties ;
'• cotnpofed of the greatest number of hone
men, and I will be of that psrtyr I woul
begin to examine the private chdt'a.&erj of
11 few men to whom many looked up for d
■ reftions and advice. It I found them dt
•- fictent m ever)' qualification neeeffary t
form honest men, I {hould be apt to fufpei
the reft of the fame party. To begi
n with thi/ firft chara&er on one fide, of th
15 (lueftion : I mean Mr. AdaaV- If I foun
<■ him honest, sober, punftual amiable in h
ilo'lhf ftic ;\s well as public character, it woul
'» be an argument with me of some weight i
r favor of that fide of the question. Suppol
c a governor &f the mo ft r.efpeftable state c
the Union Ihould at any time be at th
e hea'd of a political party, and I was to b
I told that he was as unamjable in his privat«
e as in his public character ; that by prodi
• 1 gality ar.d expence, he had become almol
" a bankrupt ; that lit was daily in a state c
f: intoxication, and could swallow at a fittinj
- as much wine as we are told Alexander did
c that he paid no regard to the charters c
i those whom he admitted to his board ; thi
II his country vilta and his town house afford
> ed perpetual scenes of riot and debauchery
• God forbid that I (hould ever hear this fail
v of a fuccefTorof Wm. Penn, but were I t<
> be told this, I ihould shun this man ami hi
1 party. PLAIN TRUTH.
£ • ■
[ rh'.s writer might, to evident advantage, hav
extended the implication of his fubjedt to evir
J country where th«re is a degree of lreedom whicj
- , enables fad ion to exalt its clamorous throat. Lool
e to England, and what a ciifgufting piSare of I u
1 mm def* vity and de' afement do her exclusive pa
t iot plefcnt to thp sickened fight ! £xamine inn
the anions of her Ra; üblican fa<stio«, tfieli whi
- would fain dupe the people into a belief chat the]
j , the sole guardian« of their right#, monopolie
t ; of the spirit of freedom, aiui that all public virtu.
r centers in them. Hear them cry aloud in tieii
1 convei.t>cles and in the highways, ag-infl the cor
= , ruj)t aitminift ration, their designs againlt p'lhlicl:
1 be'lJf, and their attempt? on the conllitution
1 Pu-fue them into their private walks,and you ihul
j firtd them i'.eots and knaves—drunkards, deb&u
t chees, gamblers, atheifls, diiturhcrs of th« publii
peac, Jnd violator* of all law, human and divine
s Turftyourcyo- to that other land, called «f-li
I hcrty, where evory thing i» sophisticated,"and ftofh
ing is any fonger reevgnifed by its right name—
where all th-; diftinotions between virtue and vice
honesty and villai' y, *are cor.fr undsd, obfeured
and obliterated—where anarchy with the endow
ments of Mohammed's angel, employs them to ;
t purpefe wh-r&ly the revcrfc—Look at this' ghaitlj
. den of human monsters, and furvev the !ou'.l aae
, : forward champion! of liberty ! Read the life ol
I Orleans, the history of a Sicycs a Barras, or aRq
WcColerre— Continual fcc'Bcs of riot, debauchery
afld i,Eliminations ef the most brutal kind, difgufl
t j the f.nfes, antt draw down involuntary curs t or
| | th: fa-r Goddess herfisM; in whefo name, by impi
ous profanstion, lueh .munllrtiii enormities have
' been perpetrated
' The norm* iuict 7.Hit talis, held in veneration by
the goalikefages and heroes of every age, from
early days of Greece, and through the eventful
xra of the Roman Republic, down to o*r own
: rime; this invigorating watchword, this name of
fweet< ft found, tranfmi::*] vrith/acred zeal irom
l.ytargus to Solon, and from iolua to the Bruti and
the Cat»« of Rome, and thence through later ; g-< j
• comes, inthefe lucter day., Wlfgritt.ully.'from tht
mouths of excluHve patriots, a mere nc.Ntn indeed
—O ! 1 iberty how haft thou been sported with !
thy naine in the mouths of Cannibals, and th«
guardian (hip of thy temple cntrufted to thydeai
iieft foes! tan rude Ignorance hear thy illuminat
ing torch through thj,«!ark rtfllms of Gothic dul
tlefs ? O ! GoJdef, ! be c»er preftnt with thy A
nierican republic, i;i thy true and defined form';
and-let not not unbound, J liberty or unbounded def
potifm, twafad extremes whicb meet, bear down
'with torrent-like force, all the Corinthian pillars
of a society, apparently deftinedfer the lift refuge
of pure, wholesome and temperate liberty.]
[The following elahorate production from the
pen of B/nj. F. Bache, who maybe jtiftly called
the •' glafsof fafhitrti and th • mould of form" to
all the fec'udary printers of the is p«blilh
ed a- currcborative of the afTertion that a verycon
fidera 1 le decree of weaknefc i 4 a ncceflary recjuifite
to form an ohftinate and malicious adherent to the
government-hating faflion.
I will vraturt to affcrt that th»ie is not a vulgar
pedagogue in the State, who would not ferule a
boy, that, ftould offer a coinpofiti.'ii couchej in
such vulgar, empty and unmeaoiog terms. Yet
this autlior is the great oracle of fadion. Dark,
dark. indeA). iholl be the ißTelleAj of tthoje vota
riis who can be beholden to such
el for the leadingarticle* of their faith.
1 befeerh th*e, t'tar Bache, if thou beareft any
ldfre caufe of liberty and equality, to r"for!
to some abler engine, than thine own bunghng 6ft,.
or that frowning (bade by which thy cause has so
long obumbrated, will finally iarten it entirely out
of exigence.]
To THE NjrirK jIMiKICAN.
IT is neither from the force of your ar
guments, nor a diminution on my fide of
the pleasure of confuting them, that, my
answers have been rather dilatory for some
tifie past. Circumstances of a private na
ture may ftiil continue to male our corrJpon
dence to but you IViay reft aiiured
that I will perform my promise, and that
your letters to the Chevalier d'YrujotfiH
be duly answered.
The objeft of your last, is to prove " that
the arming on the part of the Spaniards was
not merely for the purpoft;of felf-defence."
To this end you think you find in Mr.
Blount's letter the refutation of every thing
the minister has advanced in his correspon
dence ; you fay that it is absolutely itnpof
fible during the interval between the firft of
December and the 27th of February, when
the Chevalier d'YYujo the firft notice
to the Secretary of State of the intended ex
pedition, there ihould have been fufficient
time to examine and 3gree 'upon the plan to
fend the fame to Canadn, and to raifi the
forces v'-hich he supposed to have'marched
towards towards the lakes. To this I an
swer that / cannot Jelk-oe flint this project
was communicated to the Brit if !i minister the
firft of December for the firft time ; this is
an arlitrcry choice of dates, upon which it is
easy to build plausible argument;, and I
will add, there are powerful reasons to in
duce me to believe that the firft idea of this
expedition was conceived for a feng tirac
previous to the epftch 1011 have tho't proper
to select. I will not fay that the fi.n ori
1 J gloated »a Philadelphia.. tn the month of 1
November such an attempt was - :
a ken of at Montreal, and if the governor oP :
Canada was the author of this project, Mn
a Lifton arid his aflociates, might easily have
i' r received their imlruftions in tiirte to co-ope
rate on their pirt. An expedition of this 1
■ft nature has long been a familiar idea in that •
]d British po(Te!Fion. When Miranda escaped
a from the Spanifli colonies, whether from
h- fentment or vanity, he not only suggested
e- this plan to federal very refpeftable people 1
t( > in the United States, but also laid it before
ft the cabinet of St. James in England ; and 1
in it is probjble that being in-pofleflion of thele ]
data, the court of London gave orders, as ;
id soon as the war had been declared, to its a- 1
"3 j gents here and in Canada, to endeavour to 1
Id i carry the plan into effefl. From Blount's 1
in t letter, it evidently appear!! that the expedi- t
'fe 1 1 ion had beea in contemplation long before '
of ; .Chilho!m was' for while Blount 1
ie i on the one handj was of oplhion, that Chif
be, holm would return through Carolina to mix 1
among the Indians, he allures on the other, 1
li- that a person had already gone to England to t
'ft , hurry the business : this letter, with equa? 1
of evidence, that the firft design of this expedi- i
|g tion was of a long standing, as there had f
1 ; been time enough to form a plan, whence 1
of ; probably originated the movements denoun- r
it. ced by the Spanilli Minister, and afterwards f
i-; to alter it to another more vast and exten- 1
; five. The expreflirns of Blount leave ijo t
id j room to doubt of this wheo, speaking to )
0 Carey, he fays, " that the plan tv'tll be on a v
is { more extensive f ale than was at flrjl intended." t
| These circumstances prove even to demon
re j ftration, Mr. Native American, (hat the arbi- v
y | trary choice of dates, upon which you want to \
£ | found an argument has«not the lea ft weight, r
j and that Blount's letter, under which .you f
j. endeavour to fhclter yourfelf, of pre- v
:o fen ting to your friends me3ns of defence, h
totally cocfounds and destroys them. You f;
J j afterwards proceed to cenfnre the Spanish y
1 ■ minister for his observations on the speech e
; r of a member of Cangrtfs, who, he fays, is o
r | generally jenown to be the of admin
> nid ration ; and to enforce this censure, yon f
|| bring to your afliftance, that it is consider- o
ed in England as a high breach of privilege to si
l c criminate a member of the Hcrnfe of Com- n
:. mons for what he utters in rliament ; you
likewif* fay that it it declared in the confti- d
tution of the United States, that no mem- ii
her of ekltr houfefball be quejlioned for any ei
1, fpeeeh of debate made therein any other place : tl
but thl* is to be nnderftood merely as it res- 1
a peels the refponfihility. If the members of ti
>, Parliament or Congress, have the liberty of /
speech, the public likewise have a right, if
both herein a in England, to form an opi- ft
f nion ttpon their opinions. I will agree with I
1 you, that the minj,fter of Spain has deviated tl.
n in this as to the point of form, But he has bi
e certainly been very in point of fa 3. It
To fay that Mr. William Smith was not the a
y organ of the will of administration, and that
<j thi* has not been the.meansof obtaining for
him the employment of minister to Portu-
I gal, would be the fame as to doubt of Mr. ; t
, Fox being at the head of opposition, or that
1 Mr. Ryder, Mr. Canning, Mr. Jenkinfon,
; and others, acrenta of miwiilerial will
; j in England, .
1 You insert in your letter a defence of Mr. f\
, Lifton, which is not at all to the purpose ; £
r but on this point I refer you to the solid and a ]
- nicll 'grounded remarks made lately by the ta
editor of the Aurora I! ! y
After having, as you thought, left the
British minister spotless, as ermirit, yon fay, q{
i that you afyftain fipm making any comments J-]
s •' upon the rhetorical Jlourifhes of the che- ; n
e valier .d'Yrujo's letter, refpe&ing the ltn- ( ,f
preflments of American soldiers, the cap- ; n
. ture of the French frigate La Modefte, in ft,
i the port of Genoa by the British, theic us
> having entered Trinidad with drums beat- if
ing and colours flying, of Mr? Pickering ol
" having fought in the glorious cause of A- ra
. merican independence, and of British hu
manly in the eonrfe of our war." All
these teftimonie3 you aflert are presented
1 to fedwee the minds of the ignorant ; but,
Mr. Native Amer(can, can you deny the
truth of all these assertions ? And can you on
. give the name of feduflioo to the reprefen- hr
■ tation of fafts, as notorious as they are un- at
just, and the exposition of the duplicity of th
a nation, rn whose minister Mr. Pickering I '
put fnch blind
, American people judge of the defender of St
Mr. LMon, and of the secretary of slate, ou
when he dares to consider the just rernem- or
brancc of this conduft lile a snare to seduce fui
ar.d inflame the minds of the ignorant. 1 cu
VERUS. in
'7 he foljo w;ngparticular/ refptclirtg the lajl mo- ou
merits of Louis XI. are extraHed fro/n a we
colleflion of notes found aniongfl the papers of pu
the refpeßable bnt unfortunate Maleejhrbes, thi
one thethree council <who ajjyled that un- Fr
happy monarch on his trial. ma
"No sooner had I obtained leave to visit ed
the king in hi 3 prison, than I flew there.— the
The instant he perceived me, lie left a Taci- wii
tus which was lying open On a small table the
before him-*—h* prefled me in his arms —his mo
eyes moistened—mine filled with tears ; an<
and he said, this facrifice on your part is so pei
much ths more generous, as you inevitably on
expose your life and cannot save mine. I ere
reprefenttd ta him.thst my days were not in on
danger, and his admitted of a too success- \va
&il defeitci for •iiis to be: he replied, lam wb
lure of it—they will make me die ! they lite
have both the will and power. But no mat- fch
ter—let us attend to my trial as if tve'could car
succeed—but I will fucsed, for I fliall leave got
behind me an unfiillied reputation an,d a in 1
spotless name. - the
"He daily worked with us in analizirig hiit
documents and refuting the charges, with fpei
a presence of a mind and Jincerity which his we
two defenders and myfelr received vyith ad- tok
miration ; they profifted of his temper to .yet
take notes, to elucidate and thrtjw light in- Th
to the'meanß of defence. Trouchet, who fhoi
was naturally of a cold disposition and who and
was the more so by prepofTeffion, was afF- had
efted by tlie cindor and innocence of his twe
f client, and terminated with tender affect on,
% a" lud ua-Wi&a will* fevi
>f rity.
• " When Dcf-ze had fmtftied his defence,
e he read it to us. I never heard any thi%
more pathetic. Tr«ncli« and I were mov
is ed to tears. The King said, «*. mvfl f u p
it prtjs it—l do not <u;Jh to ajfeE! their feelings' .
d " Otrce when we were alone, the Prince*
t- feid, one ciicumftailce troubles much my
d mind Defcze and 1 ronchet o\ye me no
e obligation, and yet they devote their
e their abilities, nay, perhaps their lives, to
d me : How can I repay ? I have nothing
e left me—and were I even to bequeath them
:s a legacy, it would not be difcba'rged. Sire,
i- their consciences,. Europe and pofterily,
o will reward them : you can grant them one,
s which will overwhelm them with fatisfac
- tion—Which is that ?—Embrace them,
e Ihe next day he prefled tlrem against his
t heart, and they both melted into tears.
1- "As the day of trial was drawing nigh,
x he told me one morning :—my sister has in
•, formed me of a good pried who lias not
o taken the oath, and whose obscurity may'
if hereafter Hiield him from persecution ; here
I- is his directions ; I beg you will call on him,
d speak to him, and prepare him to come as
e soon as they will have granted me the per
- million of feeing him : lie added, this is a |
3 flrange errand for a philosopher ! for I
- know you are one—Was youabout fufFering
0 the pangs of death as I am, I would wish
j you ppfTefled the fame fentimenti of religion,
■t which would console you much more effec
' tually than philofcfphy.
" As I returned from the Convention,
- where wc had asked the appeal to the peo
j pie, and where we had all three spoken, I .
, related that in coming out of the hall I was
1 surrounded by a great number of persons
- who had allured me he should not die—at
, lead not till they and their friends had firft
i fallen. ,He changed colour and said, do
i yon know them ? Return to the affembly—
i endeavour to rejoin them, to meet some one
i of them, and declare to them that I will
- never fqrgive them, if a fmgle drop of blood is
i fpdt for me : I refufed to cause the spilling
■ of any, when, perhaps, it might have pre
> served both my throne my life, and I
• never repented I did.
i " It was I &ho firft him of the
- decree of death palled against him : he was
in the dark—his back turned to a lamp plac
i ed on trie chimney—his elbows leauing on
• the table—his fa<;e covered with his hands.
The noile I made started him from his medi
tation—he looked at me—rose and said,
For two hours I have endeavoured to recoiled,
, if in the whole course of my reign, I have de
■ served from my fubjeSs the lea ft reproach, and
i I swear to you, Mr. de Malfherbts, in all
[ the truth of my heart, as a men going to appear
i before God, that I have ever 'and ctn/lantly wil
-I{J the happinrfs of the people and never formed
a wish of the leaf} injury to them." -
Remarks of the French Editor.
And thia is the last tyrant of the French!
This is the sanguinary despot whose blood
it was necelTary to spill as the price of liber
ty ! Ah ! tether fay, he was their last fa
ther : and iu hirn what a father have they
not 101 l !
Nevertheless, an impious horde daily in
sult his memory j but the homage of all
Europe and the majority of the French of
all parties revenge his manes from the_ at
tacks of the unjust and patricidal gang ; his
bjood has rebounded on their beads ; and
their countenances bear the blasting marks
of disgrace. The son of St. Louis is in
Heaven, where his pure and celestial fdul
implores of the Almighty that forgivenefs
of his enemies, which he befeeched for them
in his last prayers on earth. The monsters
(hudder with rage, when they thus percdve
us speak the language of posterity. But,
if they have had the power to tear him from ,
our luve and divide the spoils, they cannot
ravish from his manes the tribute of our tears.
Annal£s Universelles.
NEW-YORK, September 25.
Sailed from Bermuda Sept. loth, 1797,
on board the febooner Lucy, Loudon Bai
ley, mailer, for New York; on the 14th,
at 2 P. M. was called up and told that
there was a schooner cloCe on board of us.
I had no sooner got on deck than the Jeter, j
hailed us from whence ? we answered from
St. Thomas's ; he ordered us to hoist out .
our boat immediately and come, on board 1
or that he would fire into us ; in the con- 1
fufion and having a heavy boat it wasdifß- ;
cult to get up tackles ; took up Come time, j
in which he hailed us several times with 1
threats for our delay; after having got „
out the boat, capt. Bailey and two hands*
weht on board ; the people were- instantly I
put ifi irons and the boat sent back with <
three of their crew, who proved to be '
Frenchmen ; they immediately took com- a
mand of the teffel, and the privateer order- *
ed them to (leer S. by W. for that night ; J,
the people who were sent on board behaved 2
with decency'towards us all that night, and «
the privateer kept'clofe by us. In the !
morning following sent her teat on board,
and ordered me on board with all my pa
pers ; he then ordered the people who were
on board to come with me, and left the r
crew who came on board in their room $,
on my arrival 011 board of the priva'teer, c<
was ordered into the cock-pit or the place
where the capt. kept, who received me po- _
litely and allied if I was the owner of that
(chpoiler ; I told him that I was the super
cargo of her; he then told me that Iyas a 11
gobd prize* and it was his orders to carry ''
in every vciTel to or from English ports : he.
then told me to be c and is! with hitii and tell
him what I had on board, which I did re
fpetling the cargo, and as I fpeke French 'ij
we entered into a familiar discourse, when he
told me that although I w ( ns a lawful prize,
yet he would let me go upon conditions. s
The conditions he proposed were, that he r '
Ihould have a calk of- rum, a barrel of sugar "
and a calk of w>ater—underft'anding that I
had if viral turtle that I fhottld fend him g',
two of them—but by begring with him*
k
n» sr.J leiu s hi,,; of my miifcrtttne} l,y be'n>
z ~, ftipwreclceJ but a ft.-*- moHtfis ago a ':.d loft
J my ail, be wis (atisfied with a demijohn of
?, ruin and fifty wt. of sugar, with two of the
ig heayicil rartle, a cask of water, & c . we
v- having ualy one iremaining ; then he told
P~ that 1 ir.ilit tike the men on board
~j wUm he had-as prisoners, which I could
:e not deny, although I told him J was fliort
iy ' of water and provisions ; he told me that I
10 j woul.l be daily meeting with 'velfels who
e_i < wop »' give us a supply ; I thin enquired
:o j the name of the privateer and his name,
g i which he give me in writing, certifying
in j that he had viiitcd me and put to many pri
i, , foners on board. ■ The privateer's name he
called I.'Efpicgle, captain's name Le Ear
ry> from Porto Rico ; he then let me go.
on board again, and ordered his people to
J. come back, and sent the male of the {Era
is Andromache with ei;Sff men or. board, and
told us that we might go, but when I came
!, ( to examine "th; they had plundered
i- : every thing that they ccftlil % their hands
>t j upon, 200 dollars in cash, and to the amount
yj of iOo dollars *in different other articles;
e but to do the capt. justice I believe it was
i, unknown to him, for he sent me back a
is new coat whichfthey had taken, but altho'
•- I told his lieutenant of the loss of my mo
a ney, he told the mate of the /hip that it
I was more than his life was worth to make'
them return it, so was glad to get quit of
h themfo. Friday 15th, 'spoke the /hip Eli
1, za, capt.*Neal, from Plymouth (Eng.)
bound to Charleston, 49 days out. We
hoisted out our boat, and the mate of the
i> (hip who was on board with four hands
- went on board of her, the capt. let him have
I a hundred weight of bread and part of a
s harrel of pork in paying him all the money
s he hap, which was three fourths of a dol
t Jar; it was. very lucky for us, as we must
t have been in diftrtfs had we not got that
a ample.supply. Capt. Barry told me that
- there was a sloop and a trig cruifmg on
e the coatt from Porto Rico, and it would
1 be likely I would fall in with them, there
s .fore he had given me the certificate of hav
> in PT visited me ; he had taken three prizes,
- and said he wanted only ohe'more then he
I should return to port.
GEORGE BROWN.
S No fubje&s are more interesting in a free
- commercial country, than that of bauk
-1 ruptcy and | imprisonment for debt. The
. difficulty of framing a fyftcm of laws that
- shall do justice to creditors without fub
> jesting unfortunate debtors to wnnecefTary
' r igor, is an obstacle that has not yet been
- surmounted. But" laws for this purpose
i ought to exist, and a humane legislator can
'/ oot quietly negleft to frame them.
In a free country, it is a maxim that no
- .Tiari should be permitted to redress his own
1 Wrong*. It is the prerogative of the body
politic to punifli Why then do the tar.-s
permit imprisonment for debt ?
; This imprisonment is to be vindicate*!
1 only on one of these principles—either as
. the means of iecuring the person of the
. debtor, that he may riot leave, the country
, and evade the laws—or as punifhmfent for
fraudulent con^utS —or a ccrr.pul/ion todif
. close seCreted property. In all which cases,
! wh « n proved, imprisonment for debt is
f doubtless juftiiinble.
But I contend," that this species of pp.
: nifhment, in the two last cases, should not
be left to the will, caprice or revengeful
, passions of the creditor. The cases of frauds
should be proved to a court of justice, and
the length of imprisonment {hould be defin
ed by law—or fixed by the of
the court. If appears to be a great defeft
in our laws to leave it in the power of a
creditor »o this species of punishment
at his pleasure. Even where the debtor
r has been really guilty of unfair conduit,
the creditor ought not to pronounce his
fentence—:t is permitting an individual-to
exercise a right that belongs to the legisla
ture, and giving very improper latitude ta
human paflions and frailty.
But when the debtor has not been guilty
of frauds or unfair dealings, it is not only
hard, but extremely unjust, that he Ihouhl
be in the power of a mercdefs creditor.
The law should never p •irrit one man to
give another undeserved pain, or to deprive
Jiis family and his country of his services. *
The inuocent {hould be legally diftin
gll ifiled from the guilty. The puuiflmient
oi the guilty {hould be defined and limired
by law, and the innocent {hould not fnffer
at all. These things are not well ordered
in our country. The laws are deficient
and ought to be amended. [Minerva.']
Eank of North America,
September Btb, 1797.
0 M Mon<! *y tbf No-.ce» for all Notes ft
Bill? payable »tthls.B:ink.whjrhifa!lducPnt~hat
aid the ciifmn f (> days", will be fcrved on. the Pay.
ers;.,-'nd the like Notices on every Monday, ,tiH
fh- further ordrrjof the t'L-eilors—Perfon- wi<K
ivg to iVrcfit Nerttor BiiJs for Collr&tW, w! i\h
are to fail due within the Wfek.Vuft tfemf.lve*
undert .ke to five riot'ee n the Payer* dtf
I nfuranee Compan\ oftlieSrate
of Pennfylvaaia.
rllF Office will ho kept utitii further notice at
the School Hotife in nanroiyn- 'M e
Company till rcta'n the room in Chel'-nt, aUove
■Seventh((ret, t et, where a per lon will ».tt n.l to rc
c< iv ?nd -give aii'\versC.-:iypficatioQii, svery
from uritil t o'lkiock.
g| '" r ]
1 he Hcolili-Oftice
H rer rved to the City-Kail, and j« kept open
n:£l<tand day, wr.ere pt^fonshaving htifi 11 f< may
a rp'r-. W-.M. ALLEN, Heilth-Offi;cr.
' 'H' 1 ■ U'f
An elegant Houfc in Arch SlrectT*
TO be let and enterfd on immed'ately a
and elegant fco'jfe at the Corner of Aitfc in 4
Ninth Street. There are two drawing room*
and one dmiHg room-the
16 —ant! two are so eon 11 silt J by folding doors
3to make but one.* A'fo. .five t.e<i rooms, be
etles 5 in th? parret, well finl'h.-d so- I'r' vants.
lfliere are {lables and a coach hrw<fe, with e v
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 29,
m North Seventh street, or at No. aiß, Arcli,
Street.
A V S' *s' WW3W.
* 'Aug. 15.,ntiji >in 1 ihmim.l
. Hy tliis day's A-iailT"
: '
NEW YORK, September 26.
The Chemical Mufcnm, of the Co'.We
of New York has been lately enri>4|-d with
an extensive collraion of Mirfervals,' d. do
p.itioa of Mr. Samuel O.wens, late"of Be!- 1
l ift, now < x f this city. Thus the gjneroli
ty of emigrants from Eyrope, tends to pro
riot,-the progress of arts, and' fentencts in
.the Uuited. States.
O.i Saturday night last; between the
lfr»urs of nin-t; and ten o'clock, a f}re broke
out near Bcekman flip—it was entinguifted,
before it did any further damage than con
suming a back building. 111 the neighbour
hood of Mr. Schermerhorn's (hip chandlerv
itore. ;
A Memorandum of papersin a che/l foundin
the cabin of the wreclt'd schooner " At
( latitic 9/ Bcflon," vir.
I/iit of Avei y Little's Notes-
March 2stTi, '94, 231. cs. 6d 3- 4 d, Calvin
Lewis, George Little.
Sept. 27-th,93, 41, iis. id. W.Lewis,
Ma T '94. <sl. js. Benj. Keen.
My Dear. Children.
I desire to bless God, that I have heard
you are both alive, and preferred them in
such great danger— let this be a warning to
you, anil confidcr that'you are both to die, '
and always be in preparation: for your great j
and aivful change.- This from your lovinjr
niotner. ' SARAH LITTLE. 3
Alio, a lift of the children born to Tho
mas and Sarah Little.
»The marks on the cloathes in the chest
are A. L.
BOSTON, September 11.
THE FRIGATE CONSTITUTION.
On Wednesday lart", accDrdiirg' to prcvi-
CU3_ notice, the frigate Coxfttution was to
have been launched into her destined ele
-1 ment, of which the will be a considerable
ornament. Early in the morning, the' in
habitants of every description proceeded to
the navy yard, houfrs in the vicinity, or 1
on "board veflels moored a short difiance '
from the shore, tg view a scene, which, as
Americans, hnd excited their warmed infe
reft. The launch of a frigate fuperlor in i
elegance of architecture, neitnefs of work- t
manfhip, and flrength of material, to any s
' "6vher ever built in the world—which waa r
entirely American —necefTarily produced in t
the breafl of every one who deserves to en- (
Joy the privileges of eit/'zenfhip in our c
country j the liveliest emotions of felicita
tion, and a fond belief that the Columbian ' n
navy will one day be able to cope with
those nautical plunderers, who are almofl
gorged with American booty ; and mortify
those miserable wretches who attempt by ' n
their clumsy ridicule to damp an arflor j "
\»hich honors ou* country, and deflroy in I
embryo the very engine which we now nefd j t
for our prote&ion. Among the refpeCta- j
tie fpeftators on this occasion, was the j.
chief magiflrate of the United States, and
the governor and It. governor of this com
monwealth. However those jacobin Tcrib
blers who afFeft attachment to the govern,
ment, and deference to the people of th< P'
United States, msy pretend to confiftcncy, a l
their cotiflant efforts to bring into disrepute 0'
the bulwark of our liberties, and their con.*
tinual abuse of the people in their ffpre- .
fsntatives—convict them of abfurdfty and ,n
almofl of treason. » ta
'Tlie pleasing fpc&acle of the colleded f"
beauty and flrength of our counrry, was a
degree of compensation for the mortifioati- tc
on, which the refpi'te given by Fate to the ,
launching c,f the frigate occasioned. , c
At the inflant the .tide had ruu to its Ul
height, al] the block's were clear, the shores
removed, and the frigate refled 011 her bilge
ways, which supported her in the utmost *
security, neither fpreadinj nor fettlino- ; °! 1
but for want of fufficient declivity in.the
cradle r -fhe did Rot move towards the sea.
The prudence of the conllrutlor pro- ex
duced this trifling delay in her dehut into ev
the ocfan, but the circumflance does not /
reflect the least discredit on him. After
• preparing a feyv tackles, several screws, &c.
. and cutting away some of the bilge-ways,
with considerable exertions the was moved ■
20 feet, when (he ceased ber motion ; and a c
- the tide having ebbed considerably, it was
conceived proper to defer any further efforts e:
t6 git her into the water till Friday, [this I ent
day] though it is not doubted but similar cvt
exertions to those which firfl flarted her,' ar ß
would Jiave.completed her launch, had not ,^r '
prudence prevented the renewal of them.
THEATRICAL. •
" TH' L»tr»CH.'' 1
This moficil drama, tk« second offspring- cf or ]
Mr. Hodgkinlon's pen, cliims raflk in the very lun
fSrflclifsof I afrerpiete. Its plot is sim- flap
pit and perl'pieu us ; and ks charaaeci pleaft ]y {
qntly varirgaied—The d alngue abounds with t ; or
Itrong national ffntiment, and not unfrequentiy
fpatkles wirh th<! genuine vf of well pointed
humor. Tlie trufic is rich and various; thi
ityle of the fonjrs highly chiraflerittic.—Exam- .<
ined by the moll rigid rules of eriticifm, it ar-- £
rests the approbation of the coldeji arbiter j con
sidered as a tertiporary produijlion,' written in
tjie (hort space of forty ei%bt hours, it amply 1
merits ihe eflthuliai'm oftht molt /anguine. refe
Of the la ft fier.e (which embraces a prof Q c _
petff of part of DofVr-n, Charleftswn, Chilfea,
and the river) " Description, but afhadotb's j? rG<
Jhade
to he the moil beautiful perrpfiSUvc, ever exbi- hod
bi'ed in this town by the " %limpfes" of the ia- poli
S per. To Mr-Jefl'erlon, whose talent a« a <;o- bun
median is its ewrt good reoort, the public are ljf e
highly indebted tor this cle/ int specimen of his '
feenie genius, in which he had faithfully coni- "»•
liined, with the most afiiduous aecuracy,
the mini.telt objeils of the naval fpeiilarif— ) IK)m
Ihe paffirig of the pleasure boats on the watery rudt:
the regular of the men at the oais, the j fche
j'anjX'ig of the inj;at,-, and the swell of the, mcd
furf of the flrearn wiien parted by her keel, [ low
M'ere al' executed in the tirfl fiyle of fjage ma- re ";i]
chinerv. and niiturefq-te
■■ — ■ > ravn
Exceiient Bourd'eaux Brandy ■
3c)itto > C!.r. :in cafe* ' * «
Just leccivcd, a:;d for Ky v>oi\
Leech. illy I
,t*g. 2f. - -.awe: prim
Xf3e <oaset&v
'
I, PHILADELPHIA,
wlt!i vVK'->NFSn \y evsmnq,
13°f~\ Tu^/o / bunals for 24 /w*, £/,.% ytjlr
roli- da y at ""on.
P 1 ?" Tliird Prtfljvfcrian » .
»m St. Mary's Charch r 0
Swedes I 0
the Qerni:»n L\rhercan o r
roke • Pb'tor's Field 0 ,
bed, f'»rf Spiral* I 4
> x r
con- 4
)ur " ' 1 9 ~~S
lery * FJrw of theft from the city,
*f One from Can-ptoum.
idln * I 1 * 1
At- . Philadelphia, Augujl 24, 1797.
Ala meeting of a few citizens, it was
fuggettcd, tliat, in consequence of the pre-
Ivin va^ln g calamity, a number of poor persons,
many-os whomhad families to support, would
tvis, W3nt the common necessaries of life,
unless a fund be provided for their relief, .
Wherefore, it was agreed to promote a fub
ard P 1 ' 011 or the ufc of such as might be in
1 in afliftance, and had no other means of
-to procuring it. It was also agreed, that Dr.
die, Wlll . lam White, Dr. Nicholas Way, Na
•eat ' thaniel Falconer, John Connelly, Samuel
i'ot >ates > a "d Caleb Lownes fhonld be a com
mittee to procure fubferiptiong for the a
ho- hove P ur P°fe> and that Samuel Coates fliould
be Treasurer, to receive the money, and pay
test to the o, *dcr of the said committee, or any
one of them.'
t Signed by order,
Caleb Lownes, Secretary.
:vi- -At a meeting of the committee held at
to the city-hall, the 25th September 1797 ;
]e . present Nathaniel Falconer, John Connelly,
ble Caleb Lownes, and Samuel Coates, Stephen
in- Gjrard was chosen a member of this com
to mittcc to- supply the vacancy occa/ioned by
or the death of Df. Nicholas Way. Publifh
ce cd by order of the committee.
as CALEB LOWNES, Sec'ry.
(e- Those persons who have the care of sick
in in need of afliftance in Fourth flreet, and
k- to the eaftvVard thereof, are requested to
ny a PP I y to John Connelly and Stephen Gi
ai rard; and those who have the care of them
in to the westward thereof, are desired to call on
n- Caleb Lowues, who will attend to their
iir cases. I >
a- It is hoped the printers of the several 1,1
in newspapers will publish the above.
•h . . |
ft APPOINTMENT BY AUTHORITY. <
y The President of the United States ha* J
! appointed John Read, jun. Esquire, of f
j the city of Philadelphia, Agent for the i
United States, under the 6th article of the '
; treaty between the United States and hi. >
" Bntanic majesty, vice Charles Hall, f
, Esquire, declined. F
d
HONOR AMONG THIEVES. v
Two convidts, not long fine* rrleafed from '
f prifcn, had amaiTed, by diligence and close c
■ t application, while confined, a considerable jj
e l Um Hlone y» which was made a common h
4 ftoik. b
. . By joint consent, the money was deposited a
J ,n 'he hands of a tavern-keeper, and one wa« h
to wait at the tavern until the othfcr called b ,
i for him with a horse and chair, whicfi he •
1 ' r ' ad at , fomeslillance back. When this lau
_ ter arrives at the tavern, he enquires of the d
landlord for his comrade—and is told that «
he is off!— but what was bitterest of all, i
s tnat the money also was gone off with him !
3 Ihi thief was an " exclusive patriot," \
_ and an inveterate and incorrigible democrat. (
t The above new instance (which is founded: 6
, on faft) of the thorough depravity of a Jaco- ' '
bin's mind, holds out a very ufeful moral to ' 3
those. who would not wish to learn, by bitter !
experience, that txclu/ive patriotic in what- . -
| ever walk of life, are ccnclujive knaves. ' n
It is not true that Drs. GofTe and Wal- 0 i
lass are aboOt to draw their quills in defence
of the system of blood. This is interrefting
fll formation to those who are pofli-fled with Al
a dread of venefeftion—as from the known
talents of thcfc eminent profe(Tor3 of the
healing art, it is probable that if they once
I entered with vigor into the controversy,
every opponent would be silenced by found
1 argument;—or have his mouth flopped by a I
threat of profecuticn ! | Sc
* pri
It is not, I believe, recorded in Gil Bias T1
that Sangrado ever threatened perfecutiuu r ' c
or prosecution to any one who ridiculed his ot
lunatic doctrines. He had probably under-; ne!
(landing enough to know, that it woiild on-i ft°
ly encreafe the general contempt, orcxecra- Sti
tion, against him. her
Autem, 10/igo ex intcrvallt, venit alter Sj-rrraJo ; hat
Sta im txfurgurt injuria, tr.fiicitia, belli ; '
(In tncdicina infunt brec omnia villa J f i j
" moriuntur fopuli vtne/.dicne p '
Et c.ntagUnt. tentat obvdvereprelum. (
The science of medicine bears a very near
resemblance, in mod leading points, to thht Shi
of politics. ■ In both, hercfies neyer fail jo Bri
produce the worst of consequences. In the
forn-, - ;hey tend to the difTolution of tie
body, and in the latter tp rhat of the body
[politic. Ought they not then, alike.to'be
hunted down, by all those who value either
life, or happiness in life ? Tin
i c
No department, perhaps, of hnman ccco- I
nomy has been more frequently or more 1
ruddy aflaulted by innovation and abfuld {
fchemerj than the theory and praAice fcf Che
medicine. One confolatign remains to lis, 1
however,thatarampantquack now finds foipe tun
resistance apd opposition to his ftarjc-majd, bun
raving attacks upon reason and experienced— S
Arid however this circumflance may irritate Cha
the empiric, the imprefiion made upon the I
world, by his irritation and hit threats, wfill H.
illy tend to promote the propagation of his S
principle. vani
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
Fremthea&'ji to 27th Sept. in themormng.
Adnitted, lisce last report, *
Elizabeth Pullman, Front, 3 doors below
1 South street.
.- 27 :. ' EPz btth White, Sosth, nesr Third street.
fjhr- Mar y ead . George's, near Plumb street.'
-Andrew Ki'dflc)-, Fifth, « few dears north
\ of Chefnut street.
, Win, Chsrlet, Dock street, adjoirimg Pole's
1 auft.'on room.
Polly Matthews,. China Faflory.
Mary Carfv.el!, Vernon, between South and
Snip pen street.
Discharged since last Report.
Jack, (a mulatto) admitted I 3th inft.
Eloped, since lafl; report.
John Bathurft, a&nitted J2th inft.
Died Hnoe last report.
'• when admitted I pre
was •<,, I v,OUiit oadniiflion.
pre- „. ar L s ' ? e " n ' S ' 23d ' 2 days,
ans lc^ard Jones (black
mid ITlan ) 2 5 th * 7 days.
life '' ■
' Remaining last Report -m
Admitted ikicc,
: In
?: fch " r s cj ■
uel ' 4
■a- Remain inHofpital, j Convalefcentsu ]
u Six of whom are dangerotu. '
ln y I"*.crred in City Hospital burying ground
' since last report :
From the city andfuburbs c
From the city hospital 2
at _ Total 7
7 . OT EP H B GIRARD,
j ' (^g n ed) Caleb Lownes, '
, ' - John Connelly. 1
Published by order of the Boarcl, 1
b" Wm. Montgomery,
flj. Chairman prottm. ;
twenty sixth day of September inft.
died, Capt. YViluam Heyiha m, of this city, J
ck ,n tfce 77jh yettr of his age.—ln him were uni't
nd ' a b t><iy healthful and vigorous, >-ith a raind
to con lP re ' ,e " i,v ; e i ar eneigetic. Warm in the
.• ca "'f ot jne liberties of mankind, he flood for
•>- ward among the earliell afferters of Ameriran
m freedom- and though an Enghfhman by birth,
Jn «f relisted ihe illegal encroachments of that P
,; r country with an exemplary zeal, to the grrat *
I detriment of his private fortune. Equally dif
, v tinguifhed f#r the benevolent affeflions, he was 1
| uniformly the friend of the diftrefled ; nor was
it by words alone that he fought to pour balm U
into their wounds: his house and his purse were f"
I ever open to reliev* thei neceflities. He sup- si
ported a tedious and painful illness with a forti-
tude which ft.roogly charaderized the man. and «
r ' ca . r , n rtfi »" ,t,o " to the divine will, heauti- a
ic fully illuftratcd the infinite importance of «lie- \
le ion 1111 the hour of death. Bv this affliflW «- r
vent his children are deprived of an ifTcdionate 'i
P ar « nt . his numerous friends of a cheeful com- *
pamon, and the public of a truly honest man. 10
. r , „ yjUCK DOCTOR, * 2
A foohlh, Kile fellow at i hearing
t that . phyficianhad obtained g,<*t wealth and a
r credit by the ftle rf feme plft., undertook to J t'
make p.ll. h.mfelf and t. fell them. He admini- /"
(tered the lame pill to all persons whatever j and
n by chanoe they sometimes l'ucceeded, his name A
btcamc famon . A countryman called on him In,
d and defiredto know if his pills would enabla ou
lg him to find an ass he hai lately loft. The quack
d bade him swallow fix pills. In his way home,
the operation of the pills obliged him to retire
mte a wood, were he found his ass. The clown
in cotdequencr, spread a report, that lie knew a B
e tloftor who fold pills that would recover//toW L
t ■ cat tit. j- c
f' j n
! -PRICES OF STOCf?, th
' Philadelphia, Hth Srpt. 1797. p(,
J 6 J?cr Cant. 16/8
I «per C.«>» [V* th
! IWerred 6 |»er Cent. j x r.
'IBANK United Seated, 'ig per ct adVanc*. thl
r ' inn % , vnia, n jja aci
- : North America, 46 j B . Pj
Infi.rance Co. N. A (harcj 45 to .to do. ,1
PennfvlTat)ia, par
COURSE OF EXCHANGE. ln
On London, at 30 days par fd
at 60 days ' - (, 5 P a
at 90 days h r e
Amtterdam, perKildcr
® , 40 roil
\ . g oda y 5 M 4»
CAZET7£ MARINE LIST.
PctkT of Philadelphia.
The Swedish barque Jupiter, captain "
Schales, was lately taken by "a French f :
privatjer and carried into a Spanilh port. ®, R '
The Jupiter brought to this city the An.e
rtcan citizens redeemed at Algiers; was fro,
soon after laden with at the public stores Oli,
near Arch-street, with timber and naval ai
stores, feut by the government of the U»ited
States to the Dey of Algiers, and was on
her pafTage thither when (he fell into the n ™
hands of the French.
The ship Molly, from the Havanna, and Uml
brig Planter, capt. Hawkins, from St. Tafl
Croix, are arrived at Wilmington. \ Lonj
iilk
New-York, September 26. " al !
JKRirED. f Days
Ship Fame, Nicholas, Nantz 62
Brig Francis, and Amelia, Simpfon, Perf
Bourdeaux Seen
Iphigenia, Thompfoij, Port-de-Paixzo s,Ta n
Seaport, Andrews, Tortuja 30 Crea
Fjriend ship Turks Island 18
rri ? un S» N. Caroling 7 c
The following is a lift of American veflels ■—
captured and brought into the port of
Nantes, from the 31ft March lafl to the
12th July. TNf
Ship Rainbow, Smith, of and from wils
.Charleftot), bound to London. the ci
The Rainbow was the fir ft that was cap- r-licd
turcd—fhe has been condemned by two tri
bunals. Ct 'i v =
Ship Charlotte, Kindray, of and from hym
Charlellon. bonnd to Bremen. Sh
BrigTuno, W a 'l c er, of Portsmouth, N. the c;
PI. from Charlellon, bound tcl Hambri). ujovc
Ship Hebe, Lindegrin, of and iiiora Sa
vannah, bound to Lanca&e/. " cu^
, r Sf VP Confederacy, Jenk., 0/ New Y Ol
,r ® r China bound to Hambru.
Ship Oneida, Sherry, of and from Ne
elow bpuiid to London.
Sltip Brifeis, Breath, of and from Ne
reet. *oi k, bound to Atnfterdam.
reet. Ship Light Horse, Haff, of New-Yor
onh from Bristol, bound to New-York.
Brig-American Hero, M'Dongal, ofar
ale's froni New-York, bound to Cadiz?
Ship Mercury, Keown, of Philadelphi
from Ncrfclk, bound to Bremen,
and Ship Bacchus, George, of and from Phi
adc.phia, bound to London.
Brig Mary, Holmes, of and from Bud or
bound to Naples.
Brig Catherine, Carmeau, of Newbury
inft. port from Alexandria, bound to Rotterdam
, Schooner Sally, RufTel, of Newburyport
p re . from Salem, bound to Bilboi.
ion. Brig Nelly, Bart is, of , f rom Mar
bjehead, bound to Lisbon.
None of the others have tried yet, but 1
is expeded, ia consequence of the Rainbov
„ bcil) g condemned by the second trib#ial
57 ' llat lht fials of the other ships will be bro'l
*8 forwa rd very fliortly.
- Eunice, belonging Falmonth, MatTa
65 chufetts, bound from Liverpool to Phila
delphia, wss taken 7th July, and brought
in 20th. a
4 The Jupiter, from Charlellon, bouud to
- Bremen, capt. Henry Mongds, last from
Altona,
61 r Sh lS Fame ' "P' 3l '" N, ' c hols, 61 days
from Nantes, with 30 pafTengers; spoke on
nd the 18th Sept. the brig Fortune, of Wells,
out 4 day., bound to St. Bartholemews,
lat. 40, 26, long. 64, 16.
Brig Seaforth, capt. Andrews, 32 days
I from Tortola ; spoke Sept. 1, the brig
Grace, from Baltimore to St. Domingo,
D) lat. 27, 00. 17th Sept. spoke fchr.
capt. Brower, from Cape Ann to St. Do
• ° U ' t kt ' 40. 06. Sept. 21,
ship from R. Island, bound to
Havanna, 130 miles N. W. by N. from R.
Island, out 30 hours. Provisions dear in
Tortola, and very plenty in St. Thomas's,
ft.
y, ExtraS of a letter from Captain James,
H* ' "f >c flip Brifeis, dated at Nantes
J/' l2 \r a ", J , re " ived 'M'> Fame,
r . Captain Nuhols, arrived at this port yrjler
in day, from that place.
1, " " '^ e 1 May was captured by a French
lt privateer of this place, mountiug 16 guns, eom
it mandedby Dutajh, where I txpeh to be detain
s- edat leafl three months ; andfinally condemned.
[» There is at present in this place fifteen Ameri
n can fbtps and brigs bound either to their own
e f° rlt °r»«"ral This day saw a gentleman
jJ° m r S °' "f ormf d me there was in that
j. place, several Americans condtmed, two of
d which belonged to New- Tori the brig Fox, and
- a ship ihlewife, in L'Oricnt, /lip belonging to
- ri W : r ° rk > bound f or Bourdeaux, under the
t l°l'P !c f of not having our articles signed by the
- tr , ench minifUr, and Juflice of Peace. I was
laien ,n long. 15, 6. IV. lat. 48, 30, N. and
■ Wa \ trca ' eJ v fy >" : when I was taken from
on board with my people, the officers belonging
I t/jc /" "V"'"- plundered my cabin oj all the
0 Jtores not so much as leaving me any fowls,
■ or tea The ship Rainbow, of Char Man
■1 haj teen condemned, by two trials, and has ap
e pealed a third time to the high court at Paris,
, but I believe to little effeS. The Spaniards tale
« our vejjels and condemn mojl of them!"
r Bavtimor*, September 23.
1 Arrived oa Saturday, fchr. Dorchester,
1 th ' 34 days from St. Jago de Cuba.
•' th «" re ' br 'g Patriot of tTus port, and a
lchooner of do, name not recoUefted, to fail
5_°. r . 6 da y s * Sailed in company with !
the Dick and Nancy, Leund to Philadel- ;
ph'a-fpoke brig Governor Brookes,
bound to Philadelphia, from Petit Cuave : |
the c»ptam«ind mate died on the pafTage,
aind left only 4 men—tapt. Booth offered
them two navigators, but they- would not
accept of tham ; lat. 32, 50, north.
Capt. Booth failed from St. Jago de Cuba,
Ang 10, in company with capt. Lillbridge, 1
in the Dick ; and capt. Barnet, in the
K-l.oontfr Nancy, belonging to Philadelphia
parted with them off the weft end of Cuba."
Left in the port above mentioned, brie O
ronooka, capt. Frank ford of Philadelphia.
From Marseilles,
THE CARGO
°o hc l - S y di ' h bar( l ue Guftav "» Adolphus, from
Marfedfes, cor.fifluig of the following articles,
isd'fch.rgmg at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
hie by the fubfcubcri
BRANDY, well flavored, of a, 3 & 4 th proof
Clirtt, in hogiheads
3itU), in cafcj ~
Fruntigniac Wine, in cases ef 30 bottles
Olive Oil, ot a superior quality, iir baskets of 6
and bpttles
Capers" •
Olives
•ilmonds
Dry Verdigreafe -
Wriiing Paper .
Uml.re.las (Silk) of a«, 30 and 3 s inches
Long and short white Kid Gloves for Women
Mlk
[ Handkerchiefs, in imitation ofiladrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Uibbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September a 7. eotf
1 homas Armat and Son, 01
OF PHILADELPHIA,
TNFORM their cudomers agd the public, they
A have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Atfo, they have their (tore open in s
t.ie city. At either place their friends ran be Tub- n C
plied, and their orders carefully attended to
By the C umfecrland, fr, m Hull, they have re
ceived a handsome a(T» ri m-nt of ai ticks, suitable
to the approaching frafon ; and cxp*4 to add to it
hy other fall ships.
Should the" ficknefj-frevail in die central part of J u
the city, rhat branch of their business will be ts
luovrd to ''
1 he communication by polt is open and fc*
guiar as ufuai.
icpt. It. tW
I K SHINGTOV TE-RT, TL
New- List op Psiits and B ,nks
laad clay's 'Rawing-— Sc
New Na. Dolt. ho. D •/,. jVo. i)„/
271» ii 7 rs .10 22341 , 9 y„
'ork, * 93 3°9 23225 10 224 i«
754 10 13450 5 <J 7 I 0 39 « j.
r »<l w V°, '< ft "I
* ' 896 I<» 40??6
.. I iU 143*9 13 . 959 367
* ' 3 11 9 IO 516 24 ' 9 * 424 1®
, 407 29, . J59 j6? , 0 56g I 0
r 5524 1*271 10 671'
J7 1 dfl S 26535 18 799 l »
ton, ?Al 1666 / »■« 880
it. s ** 41050
tH 10 {jS *;£j< 05,
T 9l i 4hsr
am.. 646 28112 ,64
ort, f* *° 673 mIO 3 g 6
54 987 432 416
lar " oa? .'3' 2 599 i** 43629
947 66 i 3°53* 857
. •. 760 3*661 o $e
1 0 988 3*294 44392
>o\v 7030 19243 10 74g
hal, 7i6 3u 10 485 7 6 7
fo't 4SO 10 4*7 4 5 1i0
JSo 10 989 , J 43&2 g 47
(Ta- 10 * 9I2J 393 46068
ila- Q t! ' 7J 427 47388
, . 9 -530 737
> 93 G 5*3 ! a
37* 10 615 36647 10 48209
Ito -■ 79 993 689 J© 7 „6
otn ■J 9 /' s "7' 10 8?7 769
b ll 1 »° 3776 9 83.5 10
, vs 170 574 S 74 io 058 i«
7 ..293 I 0 309 9jß 6
,? 54 10 995 400 iff
lis, 1*343 927 10* -38640 2®
vs, 346 ro
123 d day's drawing—September 4.
tys 20 ijjoo 10 24919 36141
"ig , 4 ° 2 Si 77 397
ro QO7 27Q00
"7® 676 26241 38510
> 750 10 999 10 576 10 417CS
>0- 3538 10 1331 j 66 , 410( , g
' 1 » Z £ 8836® iOJ ro
to 4 ? 58 988 462 ,80
R.
4ja 857 ia 291*9 10 905
. 47 X58I« 378 43543
itl i^ B * B 398 682 10
167 16180 lo 500 10 *>6B
l«\ 6o» 652
tes *24 940 10 fiß 451,1
7560 10 17973 7e4 I(t
r- 960 10 i8 °77 748 10 7 c4 10
997 *® 5Ji 3>oa6 10 46367 10
d 928 9{ s *2390104807210
m , f. 19 t 34445 148
m- 10361 10 »04i8 35270 4,3 IO
n " 45° I© 460 4908 a 10
•d. "459 20 545 7I? I4J I#
r,- SOJ 43307 g 74 4?4
t;» ~ 747 14269 9°l 824 10
medicines!
at ~n T HE Poor who ma y fin d it inconvenient, from
qJ" (liuauce, to mate use of Mr. Hunter's truly Hie
,d fitorious offer, will be supplied with medicines—
to ru £ ar ! ey a / cc - b y a Pt>!yia<r at th»
subscriber s store. No. 36, Market-street.
f ROBERT S. STAFFORD.
I notice: — # —
, THE Office* of the Deportment of War arefw
the present remoy«d near to the Fall, of the Scuyt
m kill, on the Ridge Road.
7;r Scp'ember 4.
I'«r lale or to be let on grouud
m rent >
0- O ITT! A Tv al " a u Je lot s GroUnd '
OI J uA l E on the north-east corner of WtU
.y and Fifth fleets, fronting the State-
It House fqt.arer Thiv lot is fifty-one feet fron»
/ on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth ftreeyfthere are «*
present two finall two story hrick houses, aud »
number ot small tenements thereon.
dl/D, for Snle,
J Jwo three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, & c . situate sn
a ter-ftreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras
ltreeti, containing in front on Water street fjf
- ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east.
, ward n.r,ery-five feet, then widenine to ths
; | loyth thirteen feet fix inches. These houfrt
> ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
i °. n th / north si d «> «>d are a very definble fitua"
tion for a merchant, flour fadlor.or others who
may have occasion for derate of goods. Thi»
property wfll be fold on very realbnable torms
, ror calu. I'or further ioformation anplv to th»
, printer. s * '
: J"'y -U- . iw&wtf
FOR sale;
BR£TAGNES in cases
German Checks in da«
Cambrjck
Plattillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and filvfV Watcha^
Window Glass 10 by 8
Tumblers ia cases
Linseed Oil in ccfcs, &c. & c .
George Pennoci,
T . lo 3t High-Sir**
3^
I I be Sabfcriber has for' Hale,
A large assortment ®f India Mufliqj
coarse and fi.'fe
Tndia Calicoes ;
Scoty RoroaJls
B ue Cloths and Checks*
Bandanna H*nclkerchief»
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irish Linens and Sbtetiagt,
affortci
y A box of Diapers
S'ilk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, obtaining Nu,ti*«fl»,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quaiitr .-
East Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Win#
Ditto.-of Gin
Roll Brimftonc
Mordecai Lewis.
- 12.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than sny other td
theCitv—
OF Famous SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14, ,
By the single Box or Quanti'.y, may be had at the
S ore of the Subscribers, comer of Arch and Front,
lirert.
yaw.es C. cif SamuelW. Fijher.
Philadelphia, J.neq, ,797.
Red Port ~~
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt Rhodes, from
Oportfl,
Red Port V\ : pe in pipes, hhds and quarter cafe.
60 cvvt. Cortv. U,I (ale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.Imported inthefinpMANciitS'rfcft) 1
Benjamin Shew ell, Master, .
From Bimikattx, and. tor sale by the subscriber, J J
No. n Walnut Street. '
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~1
Irish market claret in casts I Entitled to
ivledoc wine, in do. f Drawback. a
Sauterne, do. do. J '
Thomas Murgatreyd.
who haj For sale. i'hefol
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks shews
Rota do. do. Johr
Pimento in bags H
jooo bushels Liverpool fait. H
Aug. 24. trf&stf. H
To be fold at Public Vendue,
Totlie tiigheft bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the lign of the Indian
Qveen, in the city ps Baltimore, on the 1 5'' 1 -j
d„v of O&ober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M 1
About seven thousand acres of land, j
Hie property of William Bell, oi Philadelphia, ■,
between Keifter's-town and Wettminfter, j
Commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn- ,
pike road runs through a confidsrable part.ol Q
these lands) the tra<st begin 3 about 17 miles
from Baltimore, wit kin a ttnv hundred yards
cf said Reillei's-town, and extends to the: dii
unte of about twenty-three miles from BAlti
more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon- Will (
be foM i« trails of one hundred ana. firtv to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each traa,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr:fs.
also |
A tra& of seven hundred acres or
kind, called Clover Farms, within five miles of ry c
li'adenihurg, esteemed very gocd for Grab. kna
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenfburgh, will (hew bom
this land to any person inclined to purchase. clow
also, a
A tracl of land of about three hun- ™
tired and thirty afcres, within about two miles j ou(
and a half o the Pre&dent's house in the l'ede- , j,
val City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine __
high profpta, t.o/v which may be fcen the
city of Waihington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandras
and a part of George-town, and «™ n y m,l<s
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
\ by, of Bladenfturg, will also (hew this land. , No .
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest , yj
part of the purchase money. I'he terms will JJ
it made known pn.the day of sale. 1 tior
May 8
Just deceived,
From Batania (via Providence) cor
a few Boxssof Spices, confiding of edi
• Nutmegs, Cloves and mace n°v
For sale by P u
tfILLINGSJizf FRANCIS.
Pcnn-ftrect. P e
*»y 3° ___ itl y r
Davis's Law Book Store, t]l ,
No. 319, High-Street. pa
GEORGE DAVIS, £
BEING busied for fomc time pad in prepara
tions for removing into h:s prolent house, has
been under theneceffityof podponinguntil thisday Di
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro
Bar United States, that his spring importation of ne
law books is now arranged and ready sot lale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre- _
fpee'nce he has experienced for *ver»l years part.
Catalogues, combining the moil varied collee
tion ever imported i/ito this country, are printsd
and will be delivered on application. j
r law 6w
Tune ay. R
City Coihmijfioners' Office, p
J June 21, 1797s a ,
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the frleitt y
and common councils, pafiifd the 2id day of
Mav last, appointing the city ccmmiifioneri, .
and prescribing their duties, feaion<)th,
NOTICE IS-HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifts,
each to be under the fuperintendance ps one of
N the city commipicners, whois to be individually
relporifiMe for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow- . .
DriftviA No I. From the south fide ol Le- 11
dar-ftrrct, to the north fide of Spruceftreet, un
tie rthe fuperißtendence 08 Nathan Boys.
». From the north fide of to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under thefuper
iiftendence of Hugh Roberts.
From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, ur.der the superintendence of
Jo 4?From y the°iorth fvV of High-street, to the
north fidr of Mulberry llreet, under the super-
Intiodence »f Williitn Moulder.
r. Frmn the north fide of Mulberry street to
the north lide of Vine-street, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
' The cleaningof HigW-ftreet to be in common.
ty- A fiated meeting of the city comraitfion
ers is held at the Old Court House ; in High
ftreet, eyery Tuesday evening at j o'clock
tlllv 14. y 0 "".
Stands for Draymen, fc>V.
In purluunct of an Ordnance from tbeSeleff and
Common Council,bearing date the lid day of
Atril, 1707, providing for the appointment oj
Cifr Commiffionerj, (Sc. Seß.'lhe r -S i/j -
THE following places are fixed upon by the
laid City CommifEon&» for Stands for
Draymen'and their Horses. ( „
In Vine-flreet, eastward of Front-street, on
b °Sairafra's, High.Chefn.it and Walnut-fttreets,
eafiward of Front-flreet,on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from I rout to
Third-street. . „
Front-llrtat, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley. „ . .
Front-street, from opposite to Black Ilorfe al
ley to Hamilton's stores eafl fide.
Wiler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-.'Vreiti
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, well
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South ftrecte, ealtot i'rout
"'Do^I-arce!',''between Walnut-street and the
flag stone crossings, east fide, opposite George
between SalTifras and Vine
Fiftti-ftreetl 'east fide from Chefnut to Mul-
C SaVafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
or horse tojland within ten feet of
FOR HACKNEY COACHES
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
Fifth-ftreet, between Chtfi'.ut 3nd Vv alnut
ftC ßranch.« f r'eet 1 north fide, between Third
£o»rth street., row £cfm
July 14.
A Literary Tfeht. Ci
1 pMiJbed, handfomtly printed on writing
paper, price I dollar,
new edition of that popular and entertaining
v work, Ktititled
■SHE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being for 1
a sequel to the hiilory of Jphn Bull, the Clo- Am,
;r In aferiesof letters to a friend, with the ad- 1 8i q.ai.l
ion of TO o letters, alluding to recent political | I
nla&ions in America. . '
(t following -extract from the Clavis
lews the principal chara&ers that are introduced: x
John Bull, the Kingdom of tugland 1
His Mother, theClurckof England ,
His Wife, the Parliament ,
His Sifter Peg, the Churcli of Scotland I;
His Brother Patiick. Ireland , Jc
Lewi# v the Kingdom of France Qc
HisMiftrefs, the Old Constitution
His Hew Wife, the National Rcprefentation •
X.ord Strut, the Kingdom ot Spain 4 _
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic >°°'
The Franks) the French Republic ts '°°
The Foresters, the United States of Amsrua
Robert Lumber. New-Haniplhire 15t.73
John Codline, Massachusetts 3 3»»''
Humphrey Plowlhare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island Jo,ooi
♦eter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius C*far, New-Jerley N.
William Pennfylvania titj o
'Caffimar, Delaware the t>
Walter Pipewood, Virginia Dut o
His Granilfon, George Wathington An
Peter Pitch, North Carolina rnone
Charles Indigo, Sotitk Carolina be re^
George Tfufty, Georgia ets.
Ethan Greenwood, V ermont Th
Hunter Lotigknife, Kentucky ti.ep:
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves Waft
Rats, Speculators feleil
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins fquar
This popular and entertaining fatiricalhifto- t wo<
ry of Amsricais attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bsl- fible
KNAP. It hasa great (hare of originality and a-, w hei
bounds with genuine humour. It is continued their
down to the present time, and thofc Loth
late political tranfailions which have caused so be m
much ui>eafincfs in America. Hig,
Sold by H. and P.RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, the f
louth Second Street, and flo. 30, Marke* ftjeet. be ei
June a 6. § T
_1 Priz
LAW BOOKS, °»;
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. y P. 'RICE, Booksellers.
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street, bia
HAVE just received by the hte arrivals from Gill
London and Dublin, their spring impdrta- and
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and molt
approved J .aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfi've collection ev
er offered for sale in this country. They thei ofore
beg leave to that from the nature of their yj
conneflicnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifh V
editions (as they have hitherto at the very felt
lowed prices. The following are among the lateU ol
publications. 0
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 vjl»- tra
Peake's Cases at Nifl Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports to
in the time of Lord Har<Jwick»; Floyer's Procters It
Pra<9ice in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton s be
Trtatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice or dn
the gourt of King's Bench in Personal Anions 1 sot
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruif» m;
on Uses ; modern Reports, I* vols. London edi- fid
tio °- u v. si <v r CI
H. and P. Rics expeft t» receive by the firtt ar- lu
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of br
Dumford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil- dc
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of as
new pufclicatioas.
June 16. , j?
nf~Pennsylvania,. r
By HUBERT P1U)0D",
IS now in the prefj, and will be publi(hed, tc
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
r IAH Poulson, jun. No. 80, Cheihut-ftreet, [y
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue 1
to he received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propcfals> until the
- work is ready for the fubferibers. a
July 18. »
Printed Calicoes.
t
f JOHN MILLER, Juo. & Co. c
1 . No. 8 Gbefnut-Street,
1 Have for Sale .
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflbrtcd, very low on ,
- (hortcredit. ,
March 6. § ,
3 Richard and James Potter \
HAVE removed tkeir Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
f, /iUguft 2. W&f6t
1 Lancaster, Harrifburgb Carlijle,
e Shippenjburg and Sunbury
* STAGES.
.. 'T-'HE puMic are requested to tske notice, that
X the partnerlhip which has far some time sub
sisted betweA Mathias Slough of Lancaller, and
William Geer. is now dill'olved : but,'not as M.
, Slough infinu «r sto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jecft from M. Slough to W. Gefr', dated the 19th
- December last. a recital of which i.) not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wilhes to bp
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
'* this bufinefi, by applying to W. Geer may have
°f thi perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and then Can be
°f at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedly juftifiable in attaching him
he felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
or Stage conveyance from Philadelphia *U Shippenf
urg, or any other place. ISSp
on Now from the liberal and,generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
ts, this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
| y . Melfrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
lo to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddilpatch that a zeal to oblige the pUh
to lie can poflfibly exert.
The above company, who are amply p#ovidcd
,1 with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
c those wnu wifti to patt»niee and encourage the
" undertaking, that they can take their leats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Karrilburg,
Carlifie and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
tJ,e a Stage will dart every from the house
r ge of Samuel EUer, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thuriday,
ine and' return from theoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers dedined for
lul- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed cm Mon
days.
■et, WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. ay, 1797-
of N. B This Line, ef Stages starts from ths
house of William Ferfoc, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday ai;d Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ftll cceding to the weitwurd; iromthe hc.u.e of
wr. Samuel Eldti in Harrifburg every Wednef
nttt day morn(ng, cn the lame evening arrives ;it Pa.
trick Cochran's in Shippeniburg, and returns
ind (rem thence; on every "lhtirfday: performing the
' fame routine daily as in its tour ficm Philr.del
! phia. niw '
City of Washington.
SCHEME 2;
Of the Lottery, No.
For the Improvement of the Fedtral C't.y.
A magniScent dwelling-house 40,000 dollars,
& qaili 30,000, ire 30,00"
1 ditto 15,000 & cast iji ooo 4o,oo(»
I ditto 15 ,oo<> & calh Is>«°° 3°> oon
I ditto 10,080 & ca!h 10,000 ao,ooo
j ditto 3,000 & cash 5."0° "V?™ l ' U;
1 ditto s,ooo'k'caft 3.o°°
1 ca(K prize of royoon I
1 do. 000 each, are • xo.ooo c
to do. 1,000 - - I0 ' 00 '- •J'ion
10 do. 5«o * " „ unt
00 dik. 100 - - fourt
lio do. ,f° ' ' lo>'- n o drawi
400 do. 1' - • 10,0.0 oli(
1,000 do. JO ing, i
15,00 / do. 10 . 7 I5«,ono an
-I All
16,719 Prizes. Perk'
d«w
co,ooo Tickets, at Eight Dollar>, 400,oo» Bills,
- 1 Ut'llO
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quar- Jui
titj °f Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars </ill he JV ]
the l* st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
But one : . .
And approved notes, securing payment in either 1
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi aßy number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets. . A J
This Lottery will afford an elogant specimen ot
the private buildings to be ertiled .n the City of Ct
Walhington—Two beautiful designs arc already ]
leleile/for the entire Irontsou two of the public y
fquarei; from these drawing: it ispropbfed toereel
10 centre and 'our corner buildings as soon aspoi
le after this lottury is fold, and to convey them,
ten complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in =oia
; manner deferibed in the scheme for the Hotel
,«ery. A nett deduftion of five per cent, will L
made to defray the neceifary expenses of print-
r, &c. and the l'urplus will be made a part of
j fund intended for the National University, to Adr
erecledwithintht city of Walhingtop. cral
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paymsnt o. the j a j)
-iies, are held by the President and two DireA- v
.of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at B od
ore than h»lf the amount ol the lattery. ege.
SAM'JEL BLODGAt. axp
§ Tickets may be had at the Bank oi Co him
ia ;*of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fetcr .
ilman, Boston of Johp Hepkins, Richmond s
id of Riebard W.lls, Cooper*. Ferry.
J_ mwf lew
From the Otfego Herald.
CAUTION. ,0,
[TTHEftEAS a combination of men in this m ,i
W county have umlertaken to enrich thtni- i tie
elvea.by fabrfcating titles to sundry valuat.le trails : he
,f land, the pioperty of gentlemen living in New j co.
fotk, Vhiladelpbia, London and Paris, for which ! wt
raAs of lind large sums of money have been paid ' toi
o those fraudulent men, by innocent pur hafers •
11 is therefore jufl thit public information fl.oi'la
te given, to that the injured may seek re-
Jrefs while the men have property, acd are to be (h
found. Thofc who have bean uifcovtred are lru- e(J
man Hsrrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re- lh
fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly ar.d d ,
leveral Athers who gound?r fiilitious names. It is
fuppojed that the lands offered fcr Tale on those fa- di
bricated titles, are at lcaft worth fifty thousand ec
dollars. Such as wehaveaflual knowl dgeol are ih
as follows : Lots No. II and li, Otfeeo patent, lu
thousand acre, each, the a<£lual property of Wilnam t
Dellwyn, now of Loudon j lots No ; 58 ami bn «»
fame pt.tent, thonfand acres each, tlie property of IV
Mr. ChaumoHt, uow of Paris, and : ames Vverill
and other*, M tbi- State. .There is lonic j-«"
to suppose thK tbe lands of Richard Wells and |
Charles Whart«n, of Philadelphia, are unrler-thcir j
management.—The Printers will do well to give d
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the £|
public against purchasing those lan V, as al(o to de-
prive those men in future from imposing on indivi
duafs, which their education and addrels hare en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been (,
a lbopkeeper of some note in this eoutvtry. (i
Ike following affidavits will fct in a clear point r
of view the wickedness of thofc men, which when t
the public have peruf'd, will induee them to ex- h
3> cufe the interference of Vf M. COOPER,
Otfcgo, July aßth, 17J7- v
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Offcgo, hav- .
ing bee a led into an error, by John Witcomb and '
Truman HaTrifoo, of the fame County, to sign a
deed totheni, for let No. 58,Otfego patent, which
'■ was the property of William I Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others; arid further-the said Joleph .
and Truman did persuade me to do this agair.ft my |
°* inclination, which was made out on the icth ckty
~ of November, 1793. or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
Pardon Starts to that deed was a fiflitious nanw,
j't)' there being no fach perion there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 1797. cameperfonally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the fubfenber to the above as
, that fidavit, and made solemn ooth that it contains noth
t lub- ing but th truth.
, and fJLIHU PHINNEY, Justice of (he Peace,
ts M, On the 18th Juiy, IJ-J7. !>« fore n ' e J acob
aufe ; Kibby, a person by mc well known and worthy of
• sub- good credit, vho on his folemft- oath did lay, tliat
19th two cf the parties abovementioned did make ap
leem- plication to him this deponent, some tine in the
to be winter of 1796,10 make them a deed for two thou
its of fond acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
have mifed this deponent a {hare ol the profits, on the
:an be sale of said land?, for his so doit g ; ancith.t they
it W. madeapplicationfeveral times for the fame purpo e,
; him- which services this deponent as often refufed, de
sf the ciaring to them that he had no right to lands, and
ppenf- could do no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related among his
rt the friends several times, previous to making this alS
jrt in Javit. JACOB KIB3EY.
with Sworn before me,
mined EL'HU FKINNEY, Justice of the Peace,
re, at- Aug. V T"Y4W
epub- ['hirty Dollars Reward.
ovided T?LOPED from the service of the fubfenber,
nie to Hi on the 19th inllant, a negro man by the
inform nameof DICK, about twenty-live years ol age,
;e the and live ftet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
ats at a carpenter, and is a very lively brilk work-
Horse, man. 1J is countenance is very good When
londay fboketi to, he oonverfes with ease and confi
ifburg, dertce; nnd is pieity sagacious. I purchafcd
ithcrto ►(}„. said fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whole
name Hi lias been advertised in the Richmond
public, neu-fpaperc. During his last runaway trip (last
: house f uremci j4e was employed a considerable length
t Sun- o f t j me> |,y some person rear Dumfriis, from
;n which circumllance, 1 conjtcSure, he has taken
: !1 ' r r another nothern route I forewarm all perlons
e M „°/ from giving him employment, ot any kind
1 whatever, and mailers of veflels and athcr., bom
-1, carrying him out ot thi» state. Ihe above re
-' • ward will be given if he is taken within forty
, miles of this city; and an additional fu-m, in
™ v r : proportion to the distance he may he brought,
. v £l or the trouble and expence the apprehender may
iufe of be st > in bringing him tfthispb«.
lat pi!" N. B. lUs' apparclwas of the uftial negro kind,
returns bothe bad more cluaths than is cullomary tor
ing the them to poflels. ,
hilr.rfel
mwf Richiasnd, June n» *79^*
'• i \Vill be Landed,
From oaboard the ship Active, Capt.iEt-air, from
. Hamburgh, p
20 bliss white Ruflia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed T7VI
For Sale by 11, c i
Thomas Herman Lanfer, > I attcnti
North Fifth ftr.ct, No. 34- enquii'
-r,ine 26. * few P (
1 —: 1 7 net b<
William Blackburn, wr^e
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 fcuth Second ftrcet. I rat j
rr- JGKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, wliicb acids
X commenced drawing the joth May, FOR c<?rta j,
SALE. The price of tickets will risc in propor- - Jo
tion as the driwing advances particularly on ac- ; |)vcn|
count of the five firft lirawn tickets, prizes of oVe
four thousand dollars each, on the last day ol Co > s j
drawing- b'.auc,
CtiecK 13 jots kept fopexamination and regiUer- S(
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Waflungton', No. ,
2,'ar.d Pifcffon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the SchuyU:illbr : dge and ■
Perk omen Hr.idg", latteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the lumnier.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &.c- See. traiifa&cd with the Just 1
t ufnoft attention.
June 2 tu . I
Erfkine's Vidw of the War. A
JUST PUBLISHED, rf ■*;
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. #orfi
No 40 South Second street, c
[Price 31 Cents] Ho( ,
A View-os the Cau/es and Cenfequen- u
ces of the present War with' France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine. v
May 15 $ j feci
— — — " ~ ~~ ing <
STATE TR IA LS. dem
Sold by W. Young, Bookseller, No. s*, South Se- f"PI
I cond-flrec, ,—.
1 The Pennsylvania State Trials, lnj
- r-trfNtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
s al of FrancisHopkinfen, JuJge of the Court of r-p
s Admiralty, and John NLcholfon, Comptroller Gen- j X
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3 . c j at
'1 dollars. u F
W. Young ha, for sale, a general aflortment oi
t Book®. Also, Stationary, retril and by the pack. Wj(|
ege, well ailorted, and entitle"* to she drawback if ;
exported. J ul y 7~~' ,jav
'■ -*«- ' o'c!
T r'HK SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by . v3r
s J. che Envoy h*tri-otdiri?iv and MiniUet Pleni- ; LOn
poieKtiaryol his Biitannie Majefiv, General gent ;
f.w »ffilting Britilh creditors, and 'ucli wrticulai a- t
•ei.ti as they may ipe. iallv authorise,in protecting
their claims brforethe m
lo effift the sixth artirlf o the Tteaty of Amity, Com- .
lis mrrcc and Navigation between Ins Britannic K ajejly and ■,
a- iHe Uttited States of America, hereby gives no ice that j
£lt he hiifc opeocd hisorti*o 3' hit house the fV»uth cai\
w i coiner of Chelnut and filth llreets, Philadelphia, J
-h I where he is ready to receive all claims or intlrn&uini }, e ;
id for claims wi'Jj the vouchers aud documents inereof, I nu
- . for the puioolc of bringing forward the fame agree
[j ably so the rules and orders which the boaid may , (a
---... think proper in prescribe. .
' And as it will be for ihe intercd of all concerned, J m
be that the fevera* claim- be so filled, and support- jto
:u " ed, as to prevent the delay which would a<ilc trem ,
re * the neceflity of obtaining turlher inlormation, or ad- ,to
r - d dvtional materitit,from pet lo»s rcfiding at a diltaucc, so
' is the ger era) agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the je
fa- direftion clriefly of thof,., who, not having employ ,j,
Hid t d pai.iicuiar agents, may leave the profccunon of .
are their claims to his charge and management) that all
nt, such claims ought in particular to fct lot til
am ift. The proper defciipnon and lunation of ihe
64 creditor or claimant, «nd original debtor, rerpeft- I
ad. The date andnature of the original eontraft or
""lil 3d When, in wh»i manner, IoJ ux what extent, I
in . < : I thecreditor or claimant w.s prevented or impeded, *
. Iby the provision, operation or delea of law, the )
7 C deeifionsandpradtice of eourrs, or .eftraint of e«. t<
' he eution, from recovering payment of the debt in ft.
■ quedion. rn ■ j 31
IVI- Thelofsand damage incurred or lultained,
en- iriennfeque ce ot foch impediments, whether the a
c-' ll lartie may have aiifen from tb; infolvenev, change ol c
fnuarton, or dearli of the debtor, the loss ol legal h
aint remedy fiomlaple of time, or othcrcaufes impairing <J
han the value arwl lecurity of the debt, which would not j,
ex- have (o operated if such impediment! had not exilltd. j
And 51 h . The particular ground* and rbafon: 011 f
which the claimant main ains, in the terms of the j
lav . ireaty, that "by the ordinary course of judicial pro- f
j ini;s the creditor csnr.ot now obtain and attual.y
r have and icceivc full and adequate ooinpenlation" lor „
t!' L the lodes and dsmsges fofufliiued.
The general agrni tUinks it his duty further to,fug
that the ftveral claims ought ro be accompanied
fe P h and Inpported by the affidavits ol the claimants duly
Iworn and regularly attelled, both as to the#xi!lence
of the debts claimed, and such oih- r circumfUnces
so as at naay be within treir own ktiovt Iffige re-pcttrvely,
•of \„d wherever the claimanis in dating the natutc of
am#, their evidence (which mull in every be the
nake beftol which the cafe is capable) have ocrafion to
V. refer to thetellimony of witnefles, it will be proper
toapprifethe geneia.l sg«nt of th.-names and placos
sfore of residence of Inch witnelfci aiid the fuftito be ella
-c at- 'blilbed by their ttftimony.
,oth- Wm. Moore smith.
Philadelphia, |u"e 8:h. 1797. H
Mb ¥or ale »
by of Thai tutllknown place, called Vjnoeorift s
that f FURY,
cap- Nefliarainy creek, 1? miles frotn Phila
n the ladelphia, on the Nfw York post road,
thou- conuin ing 74 acres and 94 (jerches. Upon the
P r °" premifcs are a large two ft«ry stone house occu
-1 ' ho pied as a tvern, and a good one story (lone kit
y chen, a large frame stable with a good threlhing
?"/' floor, and Ibme out buildings—also a well of
Ml ,-ood water, and an excellent ice House. On
'I this place is a moil elegant T.tuition tor a gentle-
L his man's feat, commanding a view of the selham
s°afli- ir.y to its jun&ion wiih the E ehwa*e, and thence
fy .icrol's to the Jersey Ihore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terras apply to the SaMcriber,
, w M'JRDECAI LEWIS.
; iber COLUMBIA HOUSE
iy the Boarding School for young Ladies,
f age, -- |-HS. GROQMBRIDGE with much pleaf
traide J\(l. ureand refpeifl, returns her ftneere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
tVhen 0) e has during four years residence i»
confi- Philadelphia ; and aJTures her friends ami the
:hafed p „bli Cl f 0 far from intending to dcclme her j
whose school, fne has made a fupenor arrangement tor
mond the'more convenient accommodation ot her
p (last f c branch of ufefnl and polite
'ength f ducati«n is particularly attended to by Airs,
from Groombridge and mailers excelling in then
taken re fpei3ive crofeflinns.
erfons Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
Wnd June <th, 1797- , ,
, from qphe fituatioti is perfeifly heallky ; and made
ve re " more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
sony of ground adjoining the'houfe.
"gh" " ~Juft Publi/hed,
r may And to be lud of Messrs. Dobfon, Camphcll.Rire,
Cary, and the otiwr pricipal IJ>okfeiierM» tV
m. city,price one dollar, twmty-hve cpnts.m hoards,
i kind, jvje-yv Views of the Origin ot tiie
rytot Tribes and Nations of America..
•D. By BENJAMIN SMITH W.d.
Jans to.
fiiggihs? Specific
FAR TUB
PREVENTION AND CIUG OF i HE I
YELLOW FEVER.
X7VER fines this disease mads fucli ravages in thil
_j citj»:id .New-York, the author lias turned hi*
attention to itsc;.ufe« anJ cure.—Tlie re.'ult of his
has convinced him that the rcafon why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are frem its
not being well underflood, and the consequent
wrong method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that the excessive bleedlgrs and roercurisl reatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of trcatmer.tis by theul'e of proper
acids. 00-.vinced of this he offers his Specific as a
certain remedy, if used according to the directions.
To he had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. ftiggvis, Cherry Greet, two doors a
bove Ninth ftre'e,, (late manager of Jackson and
Co's Medicine Warelioufe, London); by J.Le
i.W.No. 26; W- Griffith.so. 177,T Fearte,lit).
11, South Third Area, 7*. Stiff, Ho. jj.'Newttreet,
near Vine street, Gale(,N<h 36,-Race street.
,Aug. 25. tuthi 3t
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
just received, by Wm. Griffiths,No,i 17, South!
Second-flreet, v frelh fupplyof
Genuine Bal/um of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
' (wko knowledge as a Botanist procured Jiiirf
the appellation of the Linnaus of Britain) and is
I»or.(idered in England as a certain cure for the abovS
complaints; it is also of Angular efficacy in tie
1 Hooping Cough,
I: may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
61, South Second street, and T. Stiff, 55, New
i Arret, in bottles as 75 cents each.
| Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy e£-'
■ feet of the medicine, (fevcral cafesof cures
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
[ demand "for it has induced him to order a Targe
. ! fupp'y, a part of which he has just received. t
.iufr«/l ,i. - law3W
| Injur ance Company of 'North America.
f 1 rTT'HE Stockholders in'this company are here
■ | 1 by informed, that, purftiant to the fifth
I : claufc of their Ch»rter, and it the request of a
I «' Number of Stockholders, who; together, are
' proprietors of Six Thoufaivl Shares, and up
wares," a general meeting of the Stockholders
will be held at the Company's Office; on Mon
day the 25th day of September next, at 11
o'clock, A.M. for the purpose of filling up a
Y • vacancy in their Direction ; and tdking into
" consideration iuch Regulations or Bye Laws as
II may beprefented in conformity with the Char
„ I terof Incorpo ition.
* • EBEN. HAZARD, SeSry.
!■ July 20. yr&ftSaj
f t Public Notice is hereby given,
i\ H[ 'HAT at- June term, 1797. a petition wa«
», A presented Jo the Court of Common Fleas,
" held at Y»rk.Town, in the State of Pennfylva
|f > nia, at the instance of James Short, praying
c " the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
| James Morrifon, and John Sample, executors
rt ; to Hans Morrifon, deceased, fur fix hundred
lltl ! a*r«s of Land, situate in Menatleu
d- ! township, in the county of York :—All per
:e, ; for.j who have any abjections to make to the ob
h® jeft.of the said petitio* are desired to attend at
'V the Court House, in the town of York, o» the
°.[ jth day of September next, otkerwife the loft
a deed will l»e supplied.
lht JOHN EDIE, CU.k.
a. Jul, 18.
or -jo Dollars Reward.
DAK away on Saturday la't, tw* indented Ser
c<l' IV vantS',Gifford JJaSly, a mulaho boy. about] 7
!!,£ years of age, a fltnf lijht built aftive follow, can
xc- read and write,five feet (even or eight inches high,
in has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes &c.
Ed, Allan Hellons, a black nun, about 24 years of
the | age, five feet seven or eight inches high,a thick fct
eof c fually built ftllow, particularly about the breech;
gal had 011 a fai or's blvc jackft lined with fwanflciu,
'"g dark striped vest, fuftiau ttowfers, high crowned
not hat, coarle shoes, &c.; each of them had feverd
( fiiirts and ieveral other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways or t; (JoW
lars foi* each, and rcafonable charges,o» delivering
"i'v I them at bJ°. 54, North Third-street.
I '1 he black fellow is about a year from Lewis
' i Towft, in the County of Suffer, state of Dela
fup t and has taken the boy with him.
,ied J"')" .1'- ™tufrfiw
To kV SOLD or RENTED,
A. LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
,c Z\ South fide of Filbert street, between
C ,° e Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
u to veyor General's Office.
nper The Building is 36 feet front and tj feet detp,
'.zees tl»e lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
etta- f ee t wick Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty Feet wide Court for Carriage*
to turn in. The. House is not piaftered, and
may be turned either into one, or two. dwelling
Houses. It is fuitabfe for a large Jianufadlory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
r t's pofieflion will be given.
Apply to No. ill, Chefnut-Street.
hila- Aug. 2t. c °d4t.
,°the Muftcal Inpument Manufactory,
ICCU- No. 167, Arch-Strtet\
kit- T TARPER, harpsichord,grand, portable gra>d,
hing JLI fid --board, pier table and ifquafe piaro lone
11 of frora London, returns thanksto his friend*
Oh and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
ntle- andhopes-that byhbaffiduity and attention to ev
bam- ery branch of his fcutncf*, toir erit a cortinuanco
lence cf their favors. Piano fertcs made on the newell
ilege and mod approved plans, with pi dais, pater r,
, e ° sw ell, and French harp stop, v.'brch he flatten
' ' himfjf will lie found on trial by unprejudiced
; judges,to be equal if not fopericrto ar.y import%-
t *f ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any irl'ru
—— mtnt purchased of him, if not approved cf ii>
twelve months, he will exchange.
J es N. B. All kinds of Musical niftruments mr.de t
' r " uned, and repaired with the greaiefl accuracy,
p' ca dispatch, and 011 the molt real'onable term;, tvs
e Jc " ready money only.
me ? t Second l'iano Forte, takt n in exchange;
ice iw Mayi l ?. .
e her Forty Dollars Rcivard.
iu for 1~) AN awiy from the fuMcrajtr on the fee
f her XX. onddayof this inlt. Ji.'v, a Mulatto Man,
polite named Will flawzer, about forty years of age,
Mrs. five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
their chtinky made ; had 'on when lie went a\i ayj a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers
(?ts. and jacket. It is probable h«' w/Ilchange in*
dtf cloMlres, as he took a number with him- ihe
made f ai> ] ftl'ow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
del lot Blake of this place ; and it is expefflsd I e has
made towards Jones's Neck, 'n, the De.aware
" State. —Anv person apprehending the fan. fel
low, and securing him so that I can get him a.
,Rire, fl u n receive the above rewar !if ijVcn
in tl,e dHtnf'thc county, and Twenty Dolljits if 111
toards, t)|e comUy) and all reasonable charges if bro't
the home. „
ica,. JESSE REED,
Oustn Ar.a « County, Mai)...nc .
July. j.