of t!je an,) hladetphia
Number i6iS.j
SALES BV AUCTION.
Stated Sales v .
For DR r GO 0n s.
r Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56,
Monday) lout h
Afternoon—Footman & Co. Ho. 6$
(. South Front-street.
Forenoon,—|<in ConiwJly, Old City
TueTdavJ Anftion, No. 73 "fout'h l'ront-ftrect.
1 Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C *B,l Higk-ftreet.
IVedxefJay £ Af ; er " oo J l , I T I^ t n er No. 74
I . south Third-flrcet.
Tburfday \ forenoon Edward Fox
I Afternoon—Join C.onpeMy.
Friday { Fqfcnonn—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Aftebnoeo—Peter Benfnn.
Sales jof Lumber, &c.
, WILL B£ SOLD,
On IVEDNESDAT, the lid in ft. precisely et o'clock
in the morning.
At C. Emle,n's Lumber Tard,
Jn the Northern Liberties, near the Hny Scales.
All the Personal Property there
remaining belorjiiigtpths eflate qf.Cafeb Enjl.n, I
deceased, consisting of the following valuable |
articles, vi^.
Several hundred of White Pine, Hemlock 1
and Oak Log», to be fold in lots of about three j
tiioufand fe«t each.
"t l-a, a, a i-a, and 3 inchOakl'tjnks aiTart-
H cd, most of which are cf ph»-heft ftuff for
o the use and building of ships
2, an*! 2 1-? inch White Piue Planks for
g qiwrtei| Decks , i
'a. I I-a to 4 inch Aft Pl*nk>
» Hftn[ock Scantling ajf rted,
2 pieses Hemlock 30 feet in leng h, and 1
■ a 1 pieces iy feet
e, Whi? e P/ne Scantling, Maple Scantling
3 MapJe Boards, Quarter Rails
5_ Spinning Weel Stuff, Whale Pieces 40 feet
ir lonjj,
"2 A valuable affortmint of White Oak Flitch
t-j - Scuff.
(_And several separate parcels of old Plank, 4cc.
ALSO,
Two large copper Stills, with
Worms, Heads, ifx. . ~
A fcood sorrel Horie—an old Chaise 3nd Sulkey
A UlgC Spinning Wheel and Reel
A number of Hill hoyfe Jarrs, two lqg Trucks, a
cutting Box and large Feed Box, a
Tmall Anchor, a Scale with Bwm,, and a number
of 561b. Weights, a good Mill Saw, p, writing
Dtlc with sundry articles in Compthig-houfe,
. tw<» pair ef good Piilojs, a. parcel of old Iron,
Cables, Ropes, iScc. LUrutifc,
The wheel works of a Horse
..Saw Mill, tomrlete. and. in good order.
_ Such, persons as ni.ay be.defircus of purchasing
any part (hereof, are a(, liberty to view thqm on
the premises, where a map,will couAantly attend
everyday previous to the faje. Carpenters, Lum
ber Merchants, Bujlders, &c. may have a. favora
ble opportunity of purchasing Lumber, &c. to
more advantage at this sale than ellewhere, which
no douft will eommaw! their attention.
Purchafersto a larger anipynt t(i.iß.9t:e hundred
dollars may be acpofnmc.da'ei withfixty days cre
dit on approved indorsed notes.
Sold by Order of
f AMES VAUX, and
CHARLES PLF,ASANTS,
Attorney! in fact to Ma by ,Emlin Executrix.
, Footman & Co. slutfrs.
navemler IJ. Pf)3^di»
•United States, 1 -
Pennsylvania Dtftrili, y"' . , ; . .
IN pursuance ot a writ to me diretfted from the
honorable Rjciiaud P8 jf;o 3,.Esq. Judge of the
Diftrift Cjoflrt of the United States in and for the
PennfylvaniaDiflrifl, will be cxpofed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the.Custom-house, in th city of Phi
ladelphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at u o'clock
at noon,.
2 hampers of Earthen Ware
I box of litdigo
I box of Merchandize <
,1 half barrel d?.
to. of CofTt-c
1 barrel of Salt Petre
« barrels}
I keg' > of Linens
I trunk J
1 barrel of Sugar
1 bag of Pepper, and
Part of 3 bags of Sugar
The lame having been libelled against, prosecuted
and condemned as forfeited, in tlii (aid Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
. Marlhal's Office, \
ail November, 1797. S dtS
UNITED SjATES, 7 (f
Peunfylvania Dip rid,
IN pucluauce of a writ co mc directed from the
honorable Ricfi mid Piters, Esq. Judge of the
Diftrid Court of the United States, in and for the
Peunfylvania Diitriit, wjll be exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the puilom-houfe in, the city of Phila
delphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at ia o'clotk,
at noon,
354 Silver Watches
30 gold Watches
500 Watch Keys
The fame having been libelled against, prosecuted
.and condemned in thefaid Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
Marftal's Office, )
«d November, 1797. ,j dtS
15 Dollars Reward.
RAN- AW \Y from the Sublcriber, on the 29th
inft. an apprentice Lad, named JOSEPH
BURNET, by trade a paper-maker; about 19
years of age, jive feet seven or eight inches high,
of a light complexion, ties his hair. Had on, and
took with him, acaftor hat, half worn, onebroWit
mature cloth coatee, new, one light do. half
worn, one flriped velvet waistcoat, with blu«
ckHh backs, one do. with fuftian lacks, and sun
dry other thiu clothes. It i- probable he will change
his clothes, as he took a number with him.
Any person. apprehending said apprentice, and
fccuring him so that'l can get him again, (hall re
ceive the above reward, and rcifonable charges if
brought hotne.
PETER BECHTEL.
Lo'.r.er Merion town(hip,
Montgomery county.
OAoUer jo. N J.— law jw.
P HIL A DEL PHI A: WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 15, 1?97 .
Wanted to Charter,
SJI To one port in Hifpaniola and back
faft failing Veflel, of the bur
then of -6 or 700 barrels. For terms, appjy to
' Benjamin Morgan, No. 170, South Front ttreet,
or to : ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South
mvemin TO. ■ •> <">
Philip LVicklin S? Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
At thfcir Stores oa \Valniit street Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
25 Jamaica - do.
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chefls
QUickfiivcr ia tubs «
Madeira Wine in pipei and hogflieads
Teiietiffe Wine in pipe?
Old led Fort Wiue in hog (he ads
Sail Canvass, aiforted, No. I to 8
8 cafe 9 of Manchester Goods, confifling of Dimities,
Muflinets, Ginghams, Corduroys, ficc.
! 200 crates Queens' Ware, aflorted
i Nails, assorted
Black quart Bottles
Oere in cMlka
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
ICO quarter calks Gun, Powder
%hn W-a)/ufir SALR or CIJARTER,
iriTl-v rhe Sh v
i packet,
! Burthen 310 tons v coppered to
' bends, and completely fitted.
TheJhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tops, a
good velfel, fompletely fitteri.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, piay uertady ior/ca in a Jew days;.,
The whole ol the above vefieU to be lem at
Wahnlt street Wharf. • 5 k« is.
For sale or Lliirtefj
M&L GOOD HOPE,
1 Will carry aiiout IIQO barrelvpnd
j* ready to take in a cargo. For terms
to . ...
Pragers Co.
No. ?51, South Secpnd-ftrfet,
• Who haye forfati—prime St. Croic Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lifhon, and TenerifFe
November 7. dtf.
For Hamburgh,
r n.MINGTON,
/i Captain Hilman ; v
A Staunch,
lajelphia builx verfel, C|f
live oak and cedar, is now in couplcte order, and
will fail with all poflible speed, having great part of
her
faje (ha,vipg excellent accommodationa) apply to
the captain on board, or to , ,
Summer I & Brown.
IVho have on hand, . 1
Gbnaives Cotton, Sugar," Mo
uses, and a few thgufand weight of excellent Cor
dage,; iacluding several Cables of 8|- k it indues,
november 1. tuthdntf
t 1 or London,
THE- ?H W? ,
WILLIAM PENN,
James Jofiah, Master,
y'\ 3. X/ILI j fail with all co»ven-
ient expedition For
Freight or PafTagc, .apply to.t'le Captain, *r to
jeffe & Robert Wain.
oa. 31. _f
r . For London,
rPjih*. THK SHIP
Daniel M'Phcrfon, 'Master-
TO fail with all convenient speed—a couGdera
ble part of her cargo being already engaged.
For terms of Freight op Paffa;»*, apply to
Rojs Bun/on.
OiH. 27.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing
By (bi-p Edward, from Madeira, antl Bet-f y and
Peggy, fr»-i Oporto, ia Pipes and Hoglheadf,
For [ale by :
PETER BLIGHT.
, WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR CALK,
The Ship
AMITY', ,
Fovr baj.Tftlfi
jn excellent ord&r—r»sndy to take
in a cargo—about three years eld. v
LIKFWISF,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go —and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
ju-fl landed from the above vefiels al South street
wharf. ecim. Nov. r.
For Charter,
p 1
THE SHIP
1 John Bulkiey,
Samuel Vojans, Majler,
ve "" c ' ' s c f live oak
an< j C edar,,of about Jpco
barrels burthen, and riady to receive on board a
cargo.
Jefft iff Robert Wain.
oa. 3 i. §
For Freight or Charter,
THE GOOD BR,G
Jglik S U K E Y,
Hasc Vredenburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's whart, and in comple;it
order to restive a cargo, for terms plcafe to an- (
ply the Captain oa board, or
John Slyrin, ,
No. 81, Arch-ftr'eet.
IVflO HAS FOll SALE,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre !
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
JOO barrels of. Herrings ]
50 htilhcls of Timothy Seed ]
150 cafe.-of Claret, fir.ft quality
And a qaantity of Sherry Wiue.
Sept. 2<),
By John FeinjMo, N°' iip Che pint Street
Five years old Madeira Wine,
: OF the very firft. quality, in pipes, hhds. and
quarter casts, just lande from the Ihip Edward,
. from Madeira, and for Tsle .by
JOHN CRAIG,
> No. n, l!ock-ftreet.
HAS FOP. CHARTER,
J The Br'-vantine
CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about 1200 barrels,
2W - Vl • just hove, down ?nd put ifi com
plete order, and pc»w ready to reecive a cargo.
4 Alfr, Far SALE or CHARTER,
J 0 S EPH u S,
Burthen about 18oc barrels.
nttfembcr 6. Tawtf.
i" or Liverpool,
The Ship
■jtm,£• clothier,
NathanielD. Gardner,mnjler,
pht \X7" 11 - L fail about the
j 1 —\ V ioft. For freijllt or >af>.
(age apply to the Captain, at wharf,
or to , JAMES OI.DDKN,
iiov. dtf. fid. 41, N.-FroiTt-flTeet.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in zvbo/e and half tierces
Loti) dean# Brandy
TenerHJ'f Wine
Molajfa
Georgia and Caroling Inqign .
Rat ens Duck and one hogjhead 6f fa'nt
brit/hes.
JV. y. Trazer.
No. 95, South Front Sheet.
J. d\m
Minting Acjdemy^
No. C ? M r lnut-it»: et. '
k, : JAMES COX,
generous public, that his academy opens this
day, Novamber<he tj'h. ■
• 'Hour# of tuition lorladief, from a till 4 in the
afternoon, and in (he evuning from 6 till 8 for
geMlenjrcv. ......
J Cox hasadd*dto his colleilion of copii s a va
riety of fine views, &c drawn from nature during
hi. ibfence froai the .city:
, AUkindj of qolaiirs prepared, and every article
used in, the difiorem branches of drawing and
paintiqg, fold.on.r.eafopable terms. , , • .
Terms of Tuition, Six Dnllari and 3 half per
quarter.
, A morning clafj for grown ladies, frrom 11 till
ia o'clock. . d3t- n<fv. 6.
?if RicKard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed tljeir
{lore to No. 54, South Fronts reel, next d»or to Ed-
Wj4?d pox's Atrilim Room, where th*y have at
this time for fa]e,a large and genera) afTortiuent of
i, fiuropetfn & Qqfl India Goods„
Many of whitfi afq just f»ppfted>in the Clothier,
William Pcnn, &«. &c.
o£\. 27. 0
St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
For Safe bf
JOHN NIXON sr Co..
■OA. *6. l daw.
Samuel Flealantg Sons,
No. 74, South s(coqd.Jlrcet, ,
HAVE.rtcciyed a fuj ply of ;'cr.fonable GOODS,
wliich are now opening-for lale, on
reasonable — 4W
Philadelphia, Oil.
ALL person* desirous to contrad. to-fm nUh Ra
tipiw an 4 Quirtpr.Maflc;r% St#r*f»,,dui the »
qjlifflm, on Mad Island, 4jjurliflc ana iifts:,..or
any of .them, are defirrd to, delivcj- tht:r proro r als,
up<ler a scaled cover, oa or before the actn No
vember next, to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations, to confijl of
I pound FJour ijr Br.ead j
I pound Beef, or 3 4-i°f a pound of Pork
£ gill Ru»n, Brandy or Whiskey
1 lb. Qandles
2 IS .Soap / To everv hundred rations
a quarts Vinegar (
I_ quart Salt _) &*ftrj?t^N
Alt Perlons who are indebted t£>
the estate of William Hevaham, l'en oi Phila
delphia, defeated*, are refluefied t a make fptedy
payment.; and those w.bo have demands a
gauifl laid eilat- , will pjcof- to '. relent them,pro
perly attcfled, to the fubfpribcrs.
William Hey foam, 1
Robert Heyjbam. >- Executors.
~ r Francis Bowes Sayre, J
novemicr 6. 2aW4W
To be Still,
A Valuable Plantdiion,
O~F uprvvards of One Hundred Acren of
well watered, in a healthy firuation, about
fAvea milc« -fr.osn this City ; the buildings may be
n>ade accommodate a large family, at a paodc
rate and poflefiioc had in a few weeks.
Part ©t *purchafe-nv*ney being
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
novembcr y mwftf
Wanted, to Hire,
Aliargs • and, convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the Gity—tfor »vhich a gccerous
ent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
afe for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
OS. 17. eotf
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amflerdam ap<l Hamburg, and forfale by
B. IS J. BOHLEN,
/I large affbrtment of jine French Cambrics,
Platillas KafliaindDiiteh faileloth
B'ittannias Writirtg, poll, and print
l<ouanes ihg paper
Brown Holland Dlfc'ch calf Ikini
Checks,ai\d,flripes madder
Ti.cilenVurga . Shell'd Barley
Oznaliurgs Looking gWTes,
■\Vhite llieetings I follow glass ware
fiaper 1 Klaus
rown rolls Coffee m* lis
Umhrtflas Drafs ketllre
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw kniv«s
Black and whitelaces Toya.3flbrted in boxti
Best HoJlaoil Sjn in pipes
London particular Mar'.e;ra Wire
July S4.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
,1 TT'HKStago.StirU from the GKOtJOf: Ta-crn,
1, L at the corner ol Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, t v.ry Tu.yVay, Tbutfhy, and Satur~
J"y< 3t j o'clock, in the n ornir.g ; arrives at IVi
ver the at Snowhiil the fecoml day, at
Northampton Court Houie the third day, and ou
the morning cf tht? fotirth day tlte 2nd
a £sfc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfc!. 1 ..
:, A packet leaves, Worfo!', for Northampton, ferry,
- every Tuel'd iy., ThuiT lay and, Saturday., and the
Stage ftartt from this for Philadelplua, every
Mon.ay. Wediiefday and Friday ; puts up at Snow
Hjil the firit aight, at Uover the 2d uight,and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening cf the third
day. .
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk,.is So miles less than on any route
- between, thnfc places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which i- m9ft excellent indeed. The' proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
pcflenger, who, after hiving performed this rpute,
; wflj fay that h. ever travelled in a stage for the fame
, distance, so good a road in America.
. Anguft ti. drm.ehtf.
, The Philadelphia, Atfwn, and 7 uclerton
MAIL S T A G E.
FHE proprietors beer leave to injurtr the public, that
tbey have eft.tblijhed a. Stage bel tveen pbifarfeTfchin t
Atjton, Batfio, Hampton, tifcediveH, and Af.ni/jj l\r
nace, WadiiSr River Jlit ting mill, and ihe toirn of 'Tuck
erton, in IVew-yerfiy, to gtf orjfs a weeh, and 1 are I fa-vi
de J m ith good I'crfes, a
ful driver, for the cotrveyarice of the watt, and
. gcbds. The Staoe nil I J}art every TJjutfday, et, IO
c/ e.ocL, A. AT. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Terry, and
th.it night at Jdel Bodi*e s, at LongacorniAg ; 'and
on on■ Entity, at 6 o'clock, P. As, arrive at Ciltb Er
vans's, inicq>>7\ in Tticlcrlon, iHf.LV.t from the city 54
miles, (from tie Atlantic 6, ar.lftcmlbe Eajl (irauftng
Plaint 7 wi.'ea-J where art- opirf zccQrtnodtjticm for tra
«W&7 r, .i.ni c<!tn/:-> -w.l JafeJ>ajp?ge boats
psiVuiJeJdo convey pajfengers to -Ca.pt. William IVar
rjngieus house, on Tucht/s Ifu*d, adjfii/tining the At'
Isfilic, n-hyi are goed-a&rwenistjti and a convenient
' place Uiathe : tbefpertfman xi'hc rvijbfs to regale bimfelf
vfith fo\v!ing ajulffbing, may at jfhi) place be highly gra
tified, there being at elm oft every fafbn of the year forvl
(pjdffo in ,abutidiXr.ee. -~-Tbe Stage on its. return, Jlarts
frofn the Q, Evans's, in TufkeHfU, every fTvtft
dqy. at 6 o'tloc&J A. lA. l/rcalfafls at Bodine's, at
IVa ding River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacojning,
and at I o'clock, P, l<f. in W.ednefddy, jjrrivi at the
aforefaid Cooper s Ferry. It is presumed thai no route of
an equal difance ivill be less expensive, or furnijh the tra
voller zvith a greater v/iriciy of amusement, as he will
Wt only have a plea/ant fail to the all ant. c fr+m Ti/eier
ton, hfit have the curitfity of feeing on the r road thither a
number capital, furnaces and forges + and one fit-ting
mill, jn complete order, and at ivork ; gentlemen, too, ivbo
are owners, or factors, of any of the aforefaid iron ivork t,
areJblifit(dto encourage and f/pport t bis,fage (by ivb '(h
theyiCarf.befa well accommodatedJ the continuance of which
will much depend on thfir aid. The rates of pajfengers
and baggage are as follows.: For a passenger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tuckerton, including
14 lb, of
pet mile, Foyr L Cenb—IJO lb. s os baggage rqwl to apaf
f&SW' P°J\ a H e °f let ten t newfpapersy £sV. will be
agreeably to law.
iV. B. The mail crones from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS IVARDLE & Co.
Tucker ton, Sept. 28. Oft.s. —lawif
Removal.
Maurice Moynihan,
JNFORfyIJ> friends and the public, tfyat he
his renjoved,his Store of China, Gbis,.Queens
Wai*c, and Dry Goods, froin No. 81 North Sp
oond< to^bTo.. 7i'Nor;h Seventh Strait, north cad
oornvr ofjC Wiere he solicits the fa*
voj.otyiH former < j •
N. ft Orates put up with oare at the {horteft
notice.
* T Pvem' 4 *T i dtf
Piiiilf/heeJ, and now Sellitg,
By, .BKNj AMIN DAViES,
At Ilia p.y;*-; 10RI, ,No, a, ,Wjk*h-SWt>
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
A XD '
ANNUAL REOI STforth* UN If ED ST A TES
; 1■ r. year'
Containing ctunplcte and. correal lilts of the Ekccu
~r tive," 1 and Judiciary >•
I)pPAIiTWEN'i;s GOVE.KIVIMENT,-
And a .variety of # uffful nccelfary to be
knowij in cyery ol' .the Union.
EmbellifoSd with t-zvo'haidfime Engravings,
One ot .which is depictive of a melancholy scene
that occurred during the American war.
64. 18.
—' — ——U— T : ; i
School Books and iStatioriary.
W, Y (Ttj NG,
Second-R reef, corner cf Chefnut-ftrect,
HAS. pow ready fcxr sale,. a very, afibrt
ment cf English, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOLi BOOKS, Also, such elementary hooks
on Science, as arc generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
. Sheridan's JDiAipnary, the lixth edition, in one
larg-e v>»l.. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, P-ailcbdjrds,
sheathing and slotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Book?, Wax., Wafers, and »t
the beii 'quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
tip' Catalogues of a rnifcellanecus colledVion of '
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to it had
by inquiring as abo*/s. OA. 24.—^aw6w
"All. Persons,
JNDIBTED to theEftateof Joseph John
son, o: Gerraantown, in the county of.p-hi
ladelphia, deceased, are desired to mate imme
diate payment, and thoVc who have any demandt
against laid ellate, are desired to bring forward 1
their accounts to either of the fubferiber's.
ELIZABETfI. JOHNSON,-)
JOHN JOHNSOM, Jun. > AdiainlftrV
JOHNSON, )
Germantown, ioth rr.o. a;th, 1797-
Q£\. 31. j
A.Negro JVlan.
the unexpired me (fo.ur y ears) I
X. of a ftcut, healthy, ajftive egro Man. He ;
is by trxde a Cooper, was brought up when a boy i
to the-farming Vupnetej |>odf ploughman, un- t
derOandsthe care management of horfe9, and (
is a gfOod del vcf He has been employed in
painting a new house and paints well—he is good -
tempered, and c. to bevery honclb, fold part
ly for want of employ. but more for being addi(sl
ect to liquor-^For terms apply to No. 12, Dock 1
i':;\et, rififf i>} Jurc :!r;ct.
Ngv 6. tf
FOR SALE,
n Br THE subscribers, No. 2t, Penn-flreer,
in The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
r- John Green, commander, from iiengal,
, o r J~
~ Baftas, of various qualities & prices
u } Qofi.a.ef Putijum Cloths
0 Sjnahs Guzz.y do.
Humhtims Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjits
y Chhitz ar A d Calicoes Mulrouls
Mamoodys Chjcks
„ Maharagonges Patwa Hhkfe.
r- kijigkftnis Mul«nul do.
j j Bamlam •OseS
Gurrahs Siflfrfoy"
u Piniafcoej Civopfi Romals
;c Salgatchy* . Sooty do.
\ v ' ir ''"ipaU Pei iiaas of various colourJ
j Mock Fulicats >
.j zoo tons PUG AR
90,000 lb. PEPPKR.
I > iI lings in? Francis.
The Piece Goods
or the Ganges arc now ojen and cxpofed to fsde {$
that commodious ilore the north Weft Corner o£
MaVltft Srtrt frjtfftK " recti. :o.
.. LA jN V i N G,
From Oil W4 .the.«tij> C'laepatra, Samuel Newell,
' CCJi.man 'ir, ir-.m Louden,
1 -&o.tpijs o.f. the best clean Rufiia
. 11K.MP.
si" rafjis o! bottled BROWN STOUT.
J lor iula fcjr die lubfcri'.crs, lAi 21, l\nn-fireet.
Hi/lings cjf Francis.
* ° a ' 31 ' d
; just arrived,
r
bers, No. it, Penn-llreet,
t 6'2 hogiheadi,")
{Prime Coffee
t 646 bag's J
H tilings & Francis.
, $
, . FOR SALE, *•
> r//£ suescxrsEZs,
' Madeira Wine, firft (Quality, in
piprs
r Macfeira Wine, New-.York quality, in pipe®
Lisbon WINE, in pipes
CLOVES and 7 f . . ■ a . . . _
NUTMEGS j latelc importation, in boxes
Spanilh Woo!, in Bales, fwitable for Hatters.
Wiltjngs Francis,
rain-flreet, No, 2T._
Nov. t. w&str
X 0 7 ICE*.
The - holders of certificates of a
loan to the exiled citizens of the State of South Ca*
rolina and Georgia, under an ait of Congtefs 234
Jtlly, 7 781, are informed, that by lodging the Oni*
with Georgc'Simpfon, Calhier of the Batik of th»
Unjtcd States, they will he enabled, to receive pay
rfiait of prihtipal and interest, asfoon as tbe.certi»
ficatcs can be forwarded to Cfiarlcfton for fettle
mrnt, and ordurs received for their discharge.
Nov.-ilVHer T. fx
From Marfeilltts. ' "" ri \
•THECARGO
Of. tlie Swcdilh barque Guft.ivu* Adolphus, from
Mayfcdles.coiTiftirgof the following articles,
is discharging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fu'ofcfibers
IBRANJDV, well ftavofed, of 2,,3 & 4th prqof
CI; ">.t, jn v"g£ucads
Oilt.-i,. in
Fiv in ccOs nfejo bottles
Olive Oil..ofa /i:peiior<niality, in balketsof6
and 11 hott les
Caucr»
Qliveji
Aimonds ,
Dry
Wfiijog f'aper
Uin! re!las (Sillt) of »8, 30 and 32 inches
Tafleties
Long and fhnrt white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockirgs
Hanjdkerch et's, in imitation of Madrafa
ArtiS.cjct Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathen
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna iit forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN ft
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. cots
For by the Package,
For cafli, or good notes at sixty or ninety daysj
V'z- 1
Boo!-: and Jaconet,M.uflins plain "f
ftrjpes, and Checks j
do. do. Tamboured } Alerted m
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | P atka g«.
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaco.net chintz mnflin fpr home and the Weft
Ir.dil, market, Pullicate and lir.en iuiidkcrchiefs,
for do. do printed da.do. common purple and
chititz (liiwls.
i he above gnods entitled to drawback tin ex
portation. Also a few icotch cambricks and aa
aflortmeiit of muslin by the piece.
The whvile of the alwve being a consignment
from tlie nuni|fa<SlLii'ers in Britain.
To be seen at William Ulackburn'3
Office, No, 64, South Second Stieet.
Nov. 6. 2awtf.
Clocks and Watches,
Of cverv opening for Sale, br
EPHRAIM CLARX,
At kts Jft-u Sbo'>, Coffer of
MARKET and FRONT STREETS,
ALSO
An extensive and general afTortmcnt of
! Tools, Files, and Materials,
CONSISTING OF'—
Clock "MWemrpts and Clock iMals, eighf day
uii4 tiiirty hours cast fcrals, forged work and Pidr
ion:, Belis and Kands, Cat Gut, screw and draw
Plates, TuilLcy Stones, Pumice, Emory and Ret
ten Stone, Spring!and GlsiTcyChains Ivcys, Seals
&.c. Spring- and Handing Clocks.
Cf&l 17. eoff
"TENERIFFE WlN.fe,
LANPING at Wa'i ut-ilrect wharf, TENE
RIFfE WINE, of excel!si:t quality, in ar;il
half pipes, for sale hy JAMES TARH. •
1 Gift. xo. mjit
[Va '.vmh XIIMll iiiwn■■■■" has c
Late Foreign Intelligence. child
' aboti
FRANCE- your
i whit
Second Declaration- of Duver\<e Du- ed t<
pri sksor Bunas, annexed to the Secret 1 ufur
P.ciijicr of the Db-iHory, 17th Veiitofe, <jth I free
y« r - . I din
" Lecsercr, Merfem, and the greatei part I
of the members of the club of Clichi, con- 1
rtitute the rnyalift body. Ij ~f tj
« The conspiracy of Lemaitre and ef V cn- 1
dwUiwrc, was a roya'iit c piracy. !■
Th? real ome of the perion knosfttfcitft'us I
under the name of Thebciu, Is Defporoclles, j
who was a Marechal de Camp before the re
volution, and a member I believe %>f the j ?
council of war. He had extenGve connex
ions with Lemaitre. It was he who drew
up the rules of the institutions and the truli- I can
tary. regulations. It is very probable that 1
lie was authorized tofupercede us provision- I
ally, for he is too prudent to remain in a .
situ ition of fuc.h great a«l perilons embar- 1
rafTment. He lived in a country house near I
the Bourg Egalite, andvery rarely came a sea
town. He fatcl he was very clofe.y conncft- I
ed »ilh M. M. de Segur, aud assures us I
that they and their party would fccond us. I
" I never heard of the widow Joye be- I
fore my examination. It certainly is a J
feigned nime, and the person by whom it is I
a (Turned mult not have been connefted with I
11s, but probably with Lemaitre, whose cor- j
respondent ift London, Duttcil, was likewise I
my correspondent. _ I
•< Duval is the name that I afluroed in I
England, being accustomed to take a new I
name every journey.
" We do not yet know the names of the I
members of the lsgiflativt; body who belong J
to" our party. Lemerer and Merfem were I
the only intermediate agents, but the reft are
the members of the club of Clichi, or at 1
least the greatest part of which it is com- I
posed. The person who procured us the I
report of CarnOt relative to the descent up
on Ireland, must be clerk in the d:pot of
places and charts, called perhaps the Bu
reau des Hedographes or Typographes. I
I had not leifnre either to know him or the
person to whotn he communicated the re- °
p-jfl.' I believe that it was not the chief of
that Bureau, but that the piece was earned
off during a rscefTary absence of his Secre- *
tary in the month of Frimaire. t
" England paid liere a person of the name q
•of Hardemherg. The lattet hacf direst Com- n
munication with Saladin.
«' England likewise pays a petfon of the
fiame of VincWt. The minifte* of police
must know who hr is, at least he has often t
given us pieces of information which he pre- £
tepdfd to have received direftly from, that f
minister, at entertainments at which be was {
present. I have always been of opinion
that this man, for I an* told he is 10, t
has heen the dupe of our minister. _ (
A »orrefpondence, not entirely foreign to
our objeft, is. that of M. D'Antraigues with (
M. Sourdat, the father. The channel by ,
which it is conveyed is as follows : ;
" Sourdat writes either to an Abbe An
dre, who takes the name of Lemaitre, or an
M. < ! e Vaidene, well knowrt in the affair of
Lemaitre. These two gentlemen reside at
Laufinne, or Vivais ; by them the letters
are transmitted to an Abbe de la Roun«, at (
Bellinzons,. under cover, I believe of the
poll-maftc r of that place, and he transmits
them to Venice, where M. D'Antraigues
resides.
" From Venice the details go to M. de
and into Spain, for Spain is dill
anxious to know what the royalists are do
ing. Sourdat writes thus : direst to Bel
linzons, sometimes to Marco Philiberti, or
even other names. There is another direst
correfpotidence with Venice. The letters
are addreffod to Marco Philiberti, banker in
Bavaria. The.correspondence from the in
terior is of no importance whatever, every
thing of importance must be sent by Eng
land. Any thing more is t)ie mere accusa
tion of receiving letters. (An exaft eopy>)
(Signed) Limodin,
(Signed) Cochon,
Minister of the General Police."
PARIS, September 14.
FRENCH EMIGRANTS.
A lift of the names of the emigrants who
have been arretted, and who are to be tried
in twenty-four hours.
We may now fay with truth that the re
public is saved ; and it is impossible fuffici
cntly to praise the wife forefight of the di
rffiors, in having discovered and fruftrated
the plots of our enemies, at the very moment
when all good citizens and real patriots
were on the point of falling under the dag
gers of royalist afTaflins. Let us not then
fear the vain etfort3 of {he agents of Louis.
Their leaders will soon receive the pirrifh
rrfent due to their crimes.
The fvrord of the law hangs over their
heads, and delivers us from traitors, who
planned the ruin of their country —Let us
assemble round, the republican standard, and
defend a republican government, which will
always fuppott liberty and punish wicked-
Open your eyeis and fee into what an abyss
they wished to plunge you—Read the cor
respondence betwe-n Pichegru and Conde
—the bsilliant offers tjade by the latter to
Pichegru, and the ptomife of the traitor to
facilitate his return to France, and that of
the emigrants. Bat every thing is discover
ed • it cannot be doubted but that their de
f,on was to re-establish royalty; this confpira
cv will (hare the fate of all the others—lf
will l Aoil upon its authors—they will be the
viftims of their own guilt—they will fall in
the pit they dug for us.
Infamous emigrants,you are bamOied, and
banished for ever, from this glorious coun
try from the abode of Überty, and from the
>*reateft republic in the world. You will
not'know tjie extent of your punilhment, till
after you have loft that tender mother who
has been the admiration os-ages, and who
has eonftituted th; happinefi wf hsr faithful youf
children. Republicans win have brought al be
about the event, do, not lotc jhsi reward of gove
your signal feiviccs. The just punifliment num
which will be inflidled upon those who wish- thei'i
ed to hide liberty, under the lhadow of an yet 1
usurped power, for ever point out to a airy
free people the path they ought to pursue. soldi
Maya dreadful example Hide in their aban- any
doned minds the vain hopes of tyrannizing an «
trver us. May every one of us, Frenchmen, prof
feel our hearts glow with the noble desire of A
• distinguishing ourselves by our courage, our pow
talents and our virtues. the
We find in the ' Ami des Loix' the sol- timi
hiwing lifts of emigrants returned to Paris : 1
The son of the duke de Lavauguyon,
prince de Carencey—MefTrs. de L'Aigle.
Monfieurle Dac de Choifeuil.
M. Duchylau, biihop of Chalons fur Sa
one, formerly almoner to the queen. He
came to Paris to he present at the council
which was to be held at rue Saints Peres,
and at the Files St. Marie, Faubourg-Jac
ques.
Le Prince de Paix.
Lamoignon, son of the keeper of the
seals.
Ducluzel, an officer of the king's regi- j fell
ment. tat
Alex. Laborde, son of the ci-devant court j tra
banker. th;
Le Mar. d'Etampes cit
Comte d'Ecquevilly cu
Comte de Gruel lot
Vicomte de la Belmaye in
Marquis Perfan
Danican
Baron de Concey , tal
Chevalier de Courtin th
Marquis de Ste Croix he
Comte de Hautfort an
' Comte de Haufoy tit
Marquis de Nefle th
Marquis de Breteuil b}
We think they ought to form a part of fe
" those whose arrest and trial in 24 hours, is w
C announced by the pacificator of Galiceti. w
} M e
WETZLAER, August 25. w
j On Friday an adjutant t» general Moreau, |re
from Strafburg, arrived at the quarters of I hi
* general Hocaras, who the next day dispatch- m
'~r ed a courier t» Paris ; yeflerday a fccond, lai
\ and to day 1 a third. A courier from Buona- !
parte in Italy likewise arrived yesterday,
"* with difpatchei tor general Hoche, and re
turned with an answer this day. This is p
ie one proof, among others, that the three ar- w
I 1" mies correspond with each other. IJ;
_ C
HAMBURGH, August 25 F
Citi7en Louis, who was sent to Vienna j g
to solicit the release of the Marquis La Fay- I u
e ~ ettc, is arrived here to make the necefTary ar- I
at rangements for the pafTage of the Marquis I d
as to America, onboard an American veflVl. It
? u Prince Rufpoli, lately arrived from Pe- I f
ttrfburgh, is {lill here, but intends to set
out for London in a few days-
The yatch, on board of which the king f
' of Sweden will return home, it arrived at {
y Stralsfund, from whe«c* ht departs to-mor- a
row. He is a very handsome young man, I
n " and appears to pofTefs a (Irong constitution." It
I ]
of ! PORTSMOUTH, September I. f
at This afternoon arrived at Spithead, the I
" r ° Sea Horse frigate, with Admiral Nelson's t
, nt flag, fmfn Teneriffe. I <
Admiral Nelson landed a: his new Sally
'^ s port this evening between five and fix o'clock, I
when he was received by the populace with
thrrt: che»rs, for which he very politely 1
jTj' thankedhim. Hefeemedtobeingoodfpirits. j
LONDON, September 2.
The fiave trade is manifeftly on the dc
cline. A letter from th« coast of Africa,
dated the 15th June, states, that for several
e . rs months previous to that period the traffic ap
pcared wholly suspended, many of the trad
ers having loft by it.
:r y The last letters from Sierra Leona, bro't j
1 S" to England by the Thornton, Capt. Ma
a" cauley, are dated the 20th of June. These
state, the internal affairs of the colony to pro- I
' ceed prosperously, but that the trade was I
, nearly deflroyed by a small French squadron, j
under the command of M. Renaude, who J
has recently taken several valuable prizes,
and continues in the ntighbourhoed of Cape I
Mount. The cotton and coffee plantations
ifhb were extending, and promised abundantly to
•led recompence the labour dire£ted to their cul
ture. The present governor, Macauley, j
re- returns to Europe early in the ensuing year.
Rci-
di- DUBLIN, September 1.
ited TO THE
lent king's most excellent majesty.
iots The humble Petition of the Subscribers, the
lag- Inhabitants of the counties of Fife
hen and Kinrofe.
>uis. May it please your Majefly,
«i(h- We, your Majesty's loyal and faithful
fubjedts the Inhabitants of the counties of
heir Fife and Kinrofe, beg leave to approach
who your throne, impressed with the warmest and
t us most lively sentiments of duty and affec
and tion for your Royal person, and at the fame
will time, to express, with all humility, our
Iced- difappi"obation of an aft palled in <he last
feifion of parliament, entitled, "an act to
byfs raise embody a militia to fcrve in that
cor- prnt ,of great Britain called Scotland,"
onde which aft is now attempted to be carried
er to into execution.
or to We beg leave to represent to your ma
at of jelly, that we coivfider this aft as oppreflive
aver- in nature, and dangerous in its c«nfequeri
r de- ces. By tearing young men from their pro
pira- ftflion «nd their relations, in many inflances
—lt' from their aged and infirm parents, though
e the 'their sole comforf, and only prop and fup
ill in port of thcit 1 lives ; thjs aft has a direst,
immediate, and fatal tendency, to throw
, and families destitute, and to reduce numbers of
ouii- most valuable and refpefted members of fo
-1 the ciety to fituaiions cf extreme misery and
will dillrefs.
t, till We rre apprehensive that the putting in
who execution of an aft of this nature, may
who have the efieft of alienating tie minds of
four majeftf s fubjeQs both frdtn yov.r roy- long
al beloved pcrfon, anA your gracious mild and
government. And we hope, that the £reat othi
numbers of pjen vvho have made offer of mag
their fcrvices as volunteers, more than have j C
yet been accepted of, will wholly Supercede 1 ly a
any neceflity of compelling men to become , by '
soldiers, who, though equally loyal with j deb
any other class of their fellow fubje&s, feel
an utter and insuperable aversion to that
profeffion. exh
And, feeing yonr majesty invested with evil
power to fupercede, by order in council, mei
the said aft, absolutely, or for a limited mo
time, five
Therefore, we, your majesty's faithful and
loyal fubjtfts, humbly pray, That is t
your majesty may be graciously pleas- ant
ed to the said aft Absolute- ch<
ly ;—.which, we are confident, will fill ma
with tfie greatest fa'isfaftion, joy, and
gratitude, the hearts of all your ma- pu
jelly's loyal fubjefts in this part of po:
your domin'oHS—and wc, as in duty th(
bound, shall ever pray.
Tc
GLASCOW, August 29. cei
Some trivial opposition has manifefted it- ty.
: felf in the parishes of Strathaven, Kirkm- '■
tatulloch, &C; to the carrying of the mili
tia aft into effeft, but we are glad to find,
that in fa»eral of the parishes around this
city, fu'ofcriptions have commenced to pro
cure fubftitutcs for tliofe who may be bal- \y
lotted for, and who do not incline to serve -
in the militia. L
Augtifl: 31.
On Tucfday last, a numerous and refpec- T
table meeting was held at Pollokfhaws, in f"
the parifli of Eaftwood, confifling of the
heads of families belonging to the village
and parish, in order to enter into a fubferip- E
tion, not only for providing substitutes for
those yonng men vvho, upon being chofca
by ballot to aft as militia men, may decline el
serving, but also to give a bounty to those c
: willing to serve. Nearly thirty guineas a
, were instantly fubferibed by the pecple pre
sent, and a committee was appointed to n
wait upon those absent, for.the purpose of b
, receiving theirfubfariptions. The utmost
f hannony and regularity prevailed, and, v
- much to the honor of the parish, all seemed
, aftuated with the fame spirit. t
b
, NEW-YORK, November 11. d
The papers that have been published aa v
s proofs of a conspiracy to restore monarchy, n
- wear a very suspicious appearance. - The
Jacobin Editor of the English Morning t
Chronicle declares, that the papers to prove
Pichegru a Traitor, have not even the dif- t
a guise of imposition. To suppose them gen- t
'- uine, is to suppose the prince of Conde, I
■- Montgaillard, d'Antraigues and Pichegrti, {
is defh'tute even of common sense. A boy of e
ten years old would have condufted a con- t
;- fpiracy with more judgment and address. j
:t To destroy the credibility of the llory, c
we may oppose to these filly papers, the {
g steady, firm and patriotic conduft of Piche- j
it gru, in a most arduous public station, and ,
r- an unblemished private charafter. j (
1, If we take into the accourft, the charac- j ,
" ter of Bartheleray, Troncon Decoudray, I ,
BoifTy, Marbois, See. the private virtues of, (
some, and the public services of all, where j 1
le shall we fiud the proofs of their guilt ? If ]
'» these men are guilty, sure we are, the proofs .
»re not yet before the American public.
y- We mult still be incredulous, as to the
k, fafts, and nntil further evidence appears,
h we shall ascribe to faSion only, the most
[y horrible tyranny and prosecution that ever
:s. disgraced human beings.
ExtraS of a letter from Nantz, Sept. 5, *99.
c- I havejuft returned from the Tribunal of 1
a, Commerce, after having heard pronounced
•al the condemnation of the ship Confederacy
p- and cargo.
d- In the motives of judgment, among o
ther favorable considerations enumerated,
>'t they admit that it is clearly proved that the
[a- ship and the cargo are both the property
:fe of L. and P. of New-York, that we are
■o- citizens of the United States, that the doc
ras uments and expeditions taken on board are
111, authentic, and in the form in ufc on board
ho other American vessels, that the ship was
es, bound from China to Harabro, that the
pe cargo consist tof-free goods,, that the equi
>ns page is composed of Americans aad neu
to trals, there not being one Englishman on
ul- board—but that not having a role d'equip
:y, age or shipping articles attested by an of
ar. ficer of marine or consul, conformably to
the ajrette of the Direftory of the 12 th
Ventofe, they declare the prize valid, both
of the ship and cargo.
They take for the basis of their judgment
[he the arrette of the Direftory, and are silent
on the treaty, and the numerous existing
laws, confirm it, and declare null
and of no effeft all laws, ordinances and
ful dispositions that are contrary thereto,
of Such at this moment is French.justice.
ich Unhappily we are yet without the ex
ind pefted relief from the head of government
: ec- —our commissioners are not yet arrived,
me I shall appeal to the Tribunal of the De
our partment, and hope that the airette will be
last repealed befefe a confirmation of the firft
tto judgment takes place.
hat
rt," ALBANY, November 6.
ied On Friday evening last, as the sloop Peg
gy, owned and commanded by capt. James
na- Moore, of this city, was on her passage from
five New-York to this port, she unfortunately
len- ran foul of the wreck of a sunken veffcl,
>ro- near Winne's Bar, which beat in a plank
ices and shivered one of her timbers—flic soon
jgh filled with water up to her cabin floor and
"up- grounded—search was now made for the
eft, leak, which being found and secured, by the
row exertions of the crew, the water was hove
s of and pumped out, so that the vessel again
' so- floated, and on Saturday arrived heie. She
and had on board a quantity of drugs and me
dicine, belonging to Messrs. G. W. Man
j in cius & Co. an affortmsnt of hardware and
na ay ironmongery, belonging to Mr. J. P. Du
s of ow ; cloths to a coufidersblt amount be.
longing to MetTrs. Giles W.-and I. Porter, port
and a large quantity of goods belonging to to t
ether persons. Most of the cargo was da- J
maged, aad some of it totally loft. £
i cs* Capt. Moore acknowledgesthefriend- cou
: i ly aid of Capt. E. WiHett and his hands—
by whose fpiiited exertions he is much in- 1
i | debted for the pvefervation of his vessel. hav
| fai<
OUR HAREOUR
exhibits at this tirrie a most pleasing fight, abc
i evincive of the rapid growth of the com- is c
, merce of Albany—the flowing canvass of ine
I more than 100 veffcls now grace our exten- cot
five quays and wharves. ext
i OUR CITY Pa
t is crowded with waggons loaded with wheat
and other rich produce of our foil.— The on
- choicest Beef and Mutton, is fold in our Ai
II market from 4to 5 cents a pound. nei
d THE BEEF na
1- putting up for horr.e confnmptiorv and ex- th;
if portation was never of so fine a quality as foi
y the present season, nor half so sbuudant. ab
CHEESE— do
To the credit of our dairy farmers, far ex- tu
ceedsall former year?, in its fnperior quali- th
t- ty. The price is alfj moderate.
i; Xljt ©a?Tcttc7 S
a. PHILADELPHIA,
il- WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER if. J c
Ve --is*—i,l nil. ,i ■
LATEST ACCOUNTS FRANCE, or
i<y t e VA'ot»Dnoi> Sims.
c- Tranjlalcd for the Gazettee of the U. States. E
in From the Bulletin, publifhcd at Rouen,
he Sept. 19.
ge GERMANY.
P" Extraft of a letter from Manh'eim, dated !
or September 1.
e» This day the Imperial troops begin to
ne encamp near S£hcetzingen. This camp will °
>fe consist of seventy two fquddrons of cavalry, 11
'as and twenty battalions of infantry.
r «- The regiment of Kalemberg departed this '*
to morning for the camp, It will be replaceu
°f by that of Ferdinand.
oft By the fouith instant the different camps ''
1( J) will be formed.
le( l General Count La Tour will command f
that of Schcetzingen ; that of Ludwigf- ''
S? bourg will be under the orders of the baron
de Staader, and that of Donau-Efchingen £
as will have the prince of Fuftemberg forCom
||r. mander.
he The Archduke will set off the day after
in g to-morrow to review these camps,
ave We arc assured that after performing this
hi- tour, his royal highness will return and ef
en" j tablifh his head-quarters within our walls,
■de, | These military preparations seem to de
!n,» ftroy the favorable hopes we had entertain
' ed of approaching peace. la the mean
on " time it would be extremely ufeful to both c
1 parties, as well as to the general tranquility /
><7» of Europe. If the war continues both (
the fides of the Rhine will be devastated.
:he-1 They are already imporerifhed by the |
an <i ( numerous requifitions'and by the presence of t
! tlie several armies on its borders, who re- ,
rac " ' quire for their own consumption all the pro
"*y» vitions of the firft necessity. Themifery of
* the wretched inhabitants is at its height.
:lere ' Commerce is defttoyed—Public inftru&iou ,
" languishes, and agriculture threatens an en
oofs t ; re sterility for the coming year.
thf Tranflatcd for the Aurora.
■ars,
naft council of five hundred.
e7cr September 14.
The republicans of Chiloas-fur-Marne
write as follows to the legislature : By baff
'99. hng manoeuvres of the royalists you have
0 f j deserved well of the copntry. Long live
need ; the republic. Long live the direftory; and
racy our brave amies. Honor to the immortal
18th of Fruftidor. Honorable mention.
o- The communes of the depaitment of Eure
ited, and of Seine and Oife congratulate the
the council on the happy day of the 18th Frue
ierty tidor.—Honorable mention,
are The council passed a carriage tax ; and a
doc- toll for the repair of high ways.
3 are The direftory trar.fmit in a message, a
oard letter from Dupont (de Nemours) member
was "f the council of elders, in which he gives
the his rcfignation.
rqui- The order of the day is called for.
neu- Chafal. I think that Dupont ought to
1 on have direfted his resignation to the council
juip- of elders. But as a member of the legifla
n of- tive body belongs to both councils, I think
r to his resignation should be accepted by them
12th both, as well as his admission was confirmed
both by both. 1 move that the letter be referred.
Several members. Read'his letter,
ment A secretary lead it. Dupont (of Ne
lilent moura) writes io his colleagnes, the mem
fting bers of the council of elders, as follows :
null You have witnessed my constant attend
i and ance to the fittings of the council, aild my
rcto. indefatigable aftivity in partaking of its la
bors. The ill state of my health has been
f ex- such, at last, that I was obliged to be in bed,
ment when I should have attended the fittings,
•ived. The confinement I fuffered in
De- prison, completed the deftruftion of my
ill be health. I give my rtfignation. Insertion
: firft in the journal.
Doulcet and Rouzet ask for leave of ab
sence for several months, to jo to the mine
ral waters. The order of the day.
Peg- Cales prcfents a plan of dress for the legif
fames lative body,
from September 14.
lately The citizens of Chinon congratulate the
reflel, council on the 18th Fruftidor.
plank The president announces, that the elders
Toon have approved the treaty of pence with Por
■ and tugal.
- the The following are the prominei.t features,
ly the The conquests made by e?ch power over the
hove other (hall be restored with cempenfation.
again They shall observe a drift and reciprocal
She deutrality. Neither shall furnifh to the ene
i me- mies of the other, (hips, provisions, money,
Man- nor arms, &c. Portugal (hall nat admit in
: and to its large ports more than I,x armed vefTels
. Du- belonging to the enemies of the republic,
t be. nor more than three vcilHs into its small
ports. Privateers (hall not be . ' It ted hi.
to them except by stress of wea:h. r.
The council declared valid the elcftienj
in St. Domingo of members to the two
councils.
September 15.
Riou after felicitating the directory for
having broke the conspiracy of the royalists
fa id:
" Among the causes which have brought
about the day of the 18th Fru&idor, there
is one which has not bten fufficiently exam
ined. It is the inveteracy with which the
conspirators attacked the operation? of the
executive, In this class is the motion of
Paftoret on our conneftions with America.
" It is notorious, that the English carry
on three fourths of their trade by means of
American vessels; and as the dress, the man
ners the language and the habits of the two
nations are perfe&ly alike, it is evident,
that it was difficult to, dillinguifh. There
fore the directory adted justly and conform
ably to principles and to fa£l, when they a
dopted the resolution which orders the cap
ture of American veflels not conformable to
the articles of the treaty of 1778.
" I move that the council declare, that
there is no room to deliberate on the propo
rtion made by Paftoret in the fitting of the
2d Meflidor, and that they repeal the decree
naming a committe the members of which
were Paftoret, Bo iffy d'Anglas, Camille,
and Herman, (of the lower
Rhine.) —Decreed and the speech of Riou
ordered to be printed.
The council determined not to fit on each
. Decadi.
September 17.
' j Many addresses of felicitation.
September 18.
j i An annuity is decreed to the widow of
.General Mz'iuu, of 20001.
3 I Pons (of Verdun.) No one is ignorant
1 J of the influence which the criminal tribunals
had on the last conspiracy.
I cculd eite a number of proofs of this,
g if it was necessary ; but is it not notorious
- that every where the accomplices of the roy
al conspirators have been acquitted. Would
s it not be well to take measures to replace
the presidents and attorneys general of these
j tribunals ? The coaftitution does not oppose
[•_ it, for it does not fettle the duration of their
n funftions. I merely suggest these obferva
n tions and move that the fubjeft be referred.
Adopted.
COUNCIL OF ELDERS.
r September 48.
The Council approved the decree of the
' s Council of Five Hundred declaring valid the
eleftions of St. Domingo
MILAN, September 8.
M. d'Antraigucs, who was here on his
n word of honor, has proved to us the confi
-1 dence which can be placed on the ivord and
£ honour of the well born. He has gone off
with Sainte Huberty, to whom it is said he
is married. [The republicans have proba
bly flittered him to escape as a reward for
the information they procured from him as
e " to the royaliil confpiracy.J
1:1 PARIS, September 13.
'• General Moreiiu had not arrived here at
)u ten lalbevening. The Directory has not yet
n " appointed Miniflers of Justice and of the
Interior.
September 15.
The ci-devant duchess of Orleans, th»
prince of Conti and Madame of Bourbon,
set off in the nights of the 12th, 13th, for
nc Spain, whither they are to be transported.
ff. The firft (hall receive for herfelf and her chil
ve dren one hundred thousand livresa year and
ve the others each fifty thousand.
nd St P- ">■
t j Army of the Rhine and Moskvie.
General Moreau, before he set off for Paris
(where he arrived on the 15th ) made to his
,re army the following proclamation .
he Head-quarters, Stralburgh, 13d Fruifti«
ie- dor, Sep. 9.
The Commander in Chief of the army of the
I Rhine and Moselle.
I received this moriiing the proclamation of
the Executive Directory of the l3th inlt. which
a inform-; France, that Pidtegru has rendered
>er himfclf unworthy of the confidence which he
>es has for too long a time commanded in the re
public and efpeeially ill'the aimies,
I have also been informed, that several mili
to tary inea too confident in the patriotifui ef that
.. representative owing to the services he has ren
dered, doubted that aflertion.
I owe it ro my i-rethren in arm*, *n J fellcw
nk titizens to inform them »f the truth,
em It is but too.true, that Pichegru had betrayed
i e d the confidence of France. 1 informed one of
the members of the Direilory on the 17th ii>ft,
chat there had fallen into my hands-a corrrfpon
. dence with Conde and other agents of the pre
lender ; which left no doubt on the fuhjeit of
ra_ this treason
The Direflory has just caller! mc to Paris
nd- wi(hinir, no douft, information niore complete
m y refpetiirtg that correfpondenre.
j Soldiers be calm, and without difquxtiide
on the events of the interior. l elieve that fl.e
? j" GbVernmrnt by repreff.ng the Royn!:<l , wilt
watch over the preservation of the Republican
gs. constitution, which you have sworn to defend,
in Signed Mokeau. .
my A courier arrived thU morning at M. Rroc.ir-
j O J, di's (the Genocfe minster) « hich had broi'g .t
inttllige .ee tliat on the 18th i ? ru4fklt>i'thrt<"ba(l
, been jn attempt to efleci a counter revoiuri.irt
, a * > * at Genoa, at. the he,id of which werethe il,
int ~ ami tl'.t ptiffts. [This »as the very day the
Itoyalifis began r»tlii in Paris} jthere wtre im
gif- ny killed. JinH the)' were overpowered. The
courier coming through Lyins on the iidin
the evening found every thing in the fame fittiJ
. t ion. They Were ft if I itjftorant of what took
lt " place here on the iStii.
Sept. I-.
lers Citizen Letourneur (ofNantz) r r ot the For.
'or- met DircflofJ is appointe d miniftei of the inte
rior, and Cit. Vimar of Rouen) tha.l ofjuflicc.
res. Sept. IS.
v The National Council ot France afiembled at
. e Paris, held onthe aid
'° n ' its fecund fitting in the Church of Notre Dann;
' oca ■ and publifiied, after a f lemn mass, a decree re
ene- fpenSing the fubmifijon due to the civil power,
ley, Sept. 19.
t j n _ The commander in chief of the army or Samfcre
. ail J iVliofJ to the riiiailer of War SeScrer.
Wetzlaer
FruJ!i.]<ii —13th Sept.
mall If Iu as aotp rfuaded th it the Directorywould font? do ju n lce to your peffi U-, I w-iul.l
only take th:* trouble to declare to vol), that I
Will no longer correfpow-.J wi v i yiiti.
Does it become yoii 10 injke an address to the
armies, you the friend and most ailive agent of
the confuiratoi-s ; you who have surrounded us
with spies j you who have psrfecutcd the friends
of the government ? Hiften to cause the repub
licans whom ymi lnv« H-trjye l and who abhor
yju to forget even your name.
(.Signed) L. HiChi.
TRANSLATED
for tlx Gazette of the Umited States,
From a Koucn paper of St-rifeinber 10, called the
EULZETIN.
TREATY of PEACE an t FRIENDSHIPhetivan
the French Republic and the Onsen of Portugal.
The French Republic and her mod faith
ful majesty the quepn of Portugal, desirous
ofre-edab!i(hing the relations of commerce
and friendlhip which exided between the
two dates before the present war, have giv
en their full powers fur entering into nego
ciation for that purpose, to wit : t the exec
stive directory, in the name of the French
republic, to citizen Charles Lacroix ; and
her mod faithful majesty to M. le chevalier
D'Aranjo Dazevedo, of her 'aid majefiy'a
council, gentleman of her chev
alier of the order of Christ, and her envoy
extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary;
who, after having ekchanged their refpeflive
powers, have coniluded the present treaty
of peace. I
ARTICLE I.
There (hall be peace, friendlhip and good
underdanding between th? French republic
and her mod faithful majesty the Queen of
Portugal.
11. Allholtilities (hall cease, as well by
land as sea, to count from the exchange of
the ratification of the present treaty ; that I
is to fay, in fifteen days for Europe and the
seas that'water its cdads, nnd those of Af
rica, on. this fide the Equator, and three
months after for the countries and seas situ
ate to the £ad of the Cape of Good Hope.
111. The ports, cities, places and all o
thef territorial poflelTions of either of the
two powers, in whatsoever part of the
world, which (hall be found occupied or
conquered by the arms of the other, (hall
he reciprocally redored without requiring
auy compensation or indemnity, and in the
times fixed in the preceding article.
IV. Her mod faithful majesty engages to
ohferve the mod exaft neutrality towards
the republic and the other belligerent pow
ers : a like neutrality (hall be observed by
the French republic in the event of a rup
ture between Portugal and the other pow
ers of Europe.
ft consequence, neither of the contradt
ing powers, during the course of the pre
sent war, (hall furni(h to the enemies of the
other, by virtue of any treaty or dipulation
whatever, (public or secret) any succours
in trcops, veflels, arms, ammunition, provi
sions or money by whatever name it rfiay be
called, or under whatever denomination it
may be. .
V. Her most faithful majesty (hall not
admit together in her large ports mors than
sis veflelsofwar, belonging toeach one of the
belligerent powers, nor raor# than three in j
tht' small. The prizes made by their veflels |
of war cr privateers refpeftively, nor the
privateers themselves (hail be received, ex- |
cept in cafe of didrefs of weather and im- ,
minent danger, in the ports of her most faith
ful majesty ; they (hall depart as soon as the (
danger is over. All sales of merchandize
or captured vefleli(ltall be ftri£Hy prohibited.
The French republic shall adopt the. fame \
rule, in regard to the of war, priva
teers or prizea belonginging to the European (
powers, with whom her mod faithful majef- |
ty (hall be at war.
VI. Her most faithful majedy acknow
ledges, by the present Treaty, that all the f
countries situated to the northward of the (
limits hereafter designated, between the pof
feflions of the two contra&ing powers, be
long, the entire property and sovereignty,
to the French republic ; renouncing as much
as shall be ncceffary, both for herfelf, her
iucceiTors and heirs all the rights which (he
might claim to the said countries by what
ever title, and specially in virtue ef the Bth
article of the Treaty concluded at Utrecht,
11 th April, 17 13. Reciprocally, the French
republic recognizes all the countries situated
to the south of the said line, as belonging
to her mod faithful majesty in conformity I
to the fame treaty of Utrecht.
VII. The limits I etween the two Guy
nnnes, French and Portuguese, (hall be de
termined by the river, called by the Portu- f
guefe Calmenie, and by the French Vincent f
Pinion, which empties into the Ocean, to V
the southward of Cape North, at about t
two degrees north latitude. They (hall c
follow the said river up to its source after a "
right line drawn from fource towards F
the ead, to Rio Blanco. v
VIII. The entrance, as well as the entire /
course of the said river, Calment'e, or Vin-
cent Pi'ufon, (hall belong, as to the entire J
property and sovereignty, to the French re- u
public. But the fubje£ts of her mod faith- _/•
ful majedy, fettled on its borders, and to the
south of the said river, (hall not however be
interrupted in the free uCe of the fame, and
without being fubjeft to any duties from its J
-entrance, in its course, or in its branches. h
IX V The fubje&s of her mod faithful ma- tl
jefty, who (hall be found eftabli(he<l to the P
northward of the above dtfignated frontier i ri
line, (hall be at liberty to remain, on sub- \ Cl
mitting to the laws of the republic, or to j
retire, and trjnfport their goods and move- i c *
ables, and to alienate the lauds which it (hall . C 1
;;ppear belongs to them. The right to re- 0
tire, and dispose* of their goods, moveables | nl
and immoveables, is reciprocally reserved to j a '
the French, who may be found situated on r «
the south of the lirfe of the frontier. The 1 11
cxercife of the said right is veiled in the one i ,c
as well as the other, for two years, to com- j
meiice from the exchange of the ratifications '
* of the present treaty.
X. There (hall be negociated and con- }
eluded as foou as possible, between the two \
ul.t i powers, a treaty of eommefce, foundeit on
' tl l of equal and reciprocal advantages.
jj.« mean tune it is agreed#
to? J' '' l,;it '■ he Cnm<r ' erc ' i]| relations (hall be e
-lus "• il), ' ,hed immediately after the exchange of the
nds an ! t'>ar the Citizens and fiihje.sls
q{j. °£ f^e xvo powers shall enj >y.in the territories
lior ... eaoh t "' ler 'he rights, immunities and pri
vuigcs which are enjoyed by the moll favored
nations.
2. I S" at the provisions and merchandizethe pro
duce of their f<> j 1 and mmufailurcj fiiall be re
fp-iftivcly a lmi'ted, if similar provisions ormer-
ES, clli,,d ! z<: of other llttiimt, are or shall be, and
' | the (aid previfion«.or merchandize shall not he
the ■•fuhjefled to any prohibition,, which (hsllnote
quaily .iftjft, similar provisions and manufac
impoited by other nations.
an i lhat ne./i*r ht left the French Kepub'ie beiig
able to offer Portugal only a very tnflinu vent
th- f or htr w .ine». which cann,.; cumpenCuf the
)US ' nfroc ' u ' r, i 0 " of French cloths into that Kingdom,
ma s ters W ' A "fpert to these two a'tide, (hall
reciprocally remain in prefent state
. 4 the duties of i npryft and others unon
IV- the produce a-.d merc'iantiife ol' th-foil and ma.-
ro- njusflurcs of tne two powers fnall be recijiro
■c- ! ca "y r «K u 'ated and calledled upon thefoctirv
ch ! to wbicb the most tWored mtiftni are fubje<9ed.
nd i ' ° !> the '"io (Is thin rijiulated, b>th
the parties (hi ! allow a diminution in favor of!
Il^ r the merchandizes produced by the* manufactories
!r-: ers, provided they>re imported iti national vef
oy laden on account of Merchants belonging
y . thereto, and sent diredtly from ports in Etnopr
ve of the one to ports in * rroyieof ijie other parry.
T v T' I'® 1 '® l J™inu;jon as well as the fppciej of mer-
J chii-diz-fo which it (hall apply, (hill be re-u
I lat. d by the trfity of commerce to be conclud
ed Ivtween the two powers
od 6 That ai to the reft, all fb'pu'ntions relative
lie to commerce, inf.-rted in precf.iing treat es be
0f tween the two p iv>ers fliall b- pi vif»rjly exe
cnte I, in all refpc&s net contravening the pro
\ fen' ♦•■fitv.
XI. Htr mod faithful majesty (hall admit
It ! '" to " CI ' P" l ts vtffeli of war or of
commerce, on the fame contfiuona as the vef
j. fels of the mod fa,vored nations. Portu
" j guefe veflels (hall enjoy in France the fame
e '~ reciprocity.
XII. The French consuls and vice-con- I
Ails (hall enjoy the privilages, precedence,
immunities, prerogatives and jurisdictions
which they enjoyed before tlie war, and
which thofc of the moll favored nations
CD j°y-
XIII. The ambadador or minister of the
£ French republic at the court of Portugal,
(hall enjoy the fame immunities, prerogauves
and precedencies which the French ambafla-
dors enjoyed before the war.
XIV. All French citizens, las well as all
the individuals composing the household of
the ambaflador or minider, of the consuls
or other accredited and acknowledged a
gents of the French republic, (hall enjoy, in
the dates of her mod faithful majeity, the
fame liberty of Worship, which the mod fa
vored nations enjoy in this refpeft.
The present article and the two preced
ing (hall be observed reciprocally by the
, 3 French republic towards the ambafTadors,
miniders, consuls and other agents of her
! Qtoft faithful majesty.
XV. All prisoners made on one part or
f the other, comprising the marines and sailors
(hall be given up in the month counting (
from the exchange of the ratifications of the j
present treaty, on paying the debts which
they shall have contraAed during their cap- j
I tiv,t 7- i
The sick and wounded (hall Continue to
be attended in the refpedtive hospitals ; they '
(hall be given up as soon as they are cured.
XVI. The peace and good friendfhipre
edablifhtd by the present treaty between the ,
e French republic and her mod faithful ma- !
jedy, (hall be declared common to the Bata- j
vian republic. ,
XVII. The present treaty fltall be ratifi- 1
td and its ratifications exchanged in two ' >
months, counting from this day.
Done, agreed, concluded, signed and seal- (
ed, to wit, by mq Charles Delacroix, with 1 ,
the seal of external relations ; and by me, '[ ■
Chevalier d'Arntijo, with my feat at arms, j ,
At Paris the 23d thermidor, sth year oftbs 1 (
republic, answering to the icth
' Augud, 1797, (old style.) '
r (Signed)
Charles Dt la Croix, and
Antoink d'Aranjo Dazevedo. 1 (
; By this day's Mail. -
1
r NEW-YORK, Nov. 14. 1
r Extraft of a'letter from Mcdrs. de Arabet,
Gautier, Manning and co. dated Barce- (,
celona, July 29th, 1797. ti
The ftiip Chatham, Capt. Pctefs, who tl
. failed lail Sunday evening from Saloe, has »
since been taken by a French privateer, and
, is now detained in this rrver, and in quaran- J
tine ; but unul tKity may have Pratick, we
[ cannot fay what may be the result of this
t drange proceeding, as all the captain's pa- b
; pers are in order, and the French are not at f:
war with the Americans. The French con- t(
; ful fays, that by their republican ordinance, the
. American's muf.er role, or ro!e d'equipage,
. Jhould -be printed, and it seems the privateer de
. tains Capt. Peters only because his is in manu-
. 0 TEMPORA, 0 MORES <
from the Diary.
On Friday lad, at the fittings before
; Judge Lewis, Esq. was tried a cause on a
bill of exchange, remitted to England by
the ihdorferin payment of debt, which was
proteded ; and one of the partners in Ame
' rica employed an agent to endeavour to re
• cover the bill, with damages, which the ju
jry charged at twenty per cent, under the a
I express directions of the court. This de
ciiion with other points is reftrved for the
opinion of the Supreme Court : yet, as
I merchants and the chamber of commerce,
j are of decided opinion, th-:t the party who ao
remits a bill on his own account is only en- co
j tidtd'to the damages, &c. It may be well
| for thofc who remit bills to be guarded in
! their endorsements, by making some special
; ty thereon. tl
j MA RRIED—tn England, David Wil-
I li;im, Earl of Mansfield, to Mils Fred, rica
\
on | Marklmm, disinter cf the Archbi'Jton
CS. lof York. ' '
( , ...
e " j DIED, —At the Lazarrtfo near"tßTj'tt'
l y> a gcd 42, Capt. Johv Wassov of the
!es '"k l "' Huntrefu, !>eloriging to FairPeld in
,ri- Connefticut. He was. lately from Savsn
•ej nah, where he the "yellow fever,
p supposed from tht fllthinefti of the wharf and
ro- shore. He was a man of (Teat integrity
,c " and worth, and highly ffteemed by all who
"j knew him.
he ■ —' General Hospital, near Que-.
e bee, the most iiluftrious and Rt. Rev. Jean
lc . Francois Hubert, late bifiiop of Quebec, a
ged about 50 years.
f LONDON, Sept. li.
rn L HAU'i TON. ,The letters written by
4 jj a reverend gentleman, the ehef ami of the ce
lebrated Mrs. C ns, to his grace the
on i Duke of B. in the name of Vhatjady, engross
l - theconverfation of tht circles at Brighton,
•o- The finances of the fiuV Cyprian being de
;Y 1 ran g«'- tllc '''ike was fixed npon as the per
(lj | f°" likely to supply the Lady with the
of ! f" rt^er means of extravagance : but as (he
es ; could not wnf, her reverend friend wrote
J the tender epistles in her name. The Duke j
.1- j in the infancy or the correspondence was ra
| ther struck with the stile of the lady, an
, !ier lett err, and gave her a meeting
£ —but the frand wa3 at length dete&ed
u " the lady confuted and negledted, and the
.1 P :0 »s pastor fuffered difgiace. We have
been favored with copies, and forthe amufe
•e ment of our readers infeft
r- THE FIRST LETTER.
e " From Mrs■ C r.i to the Duke of 3 ,
e ' " My Lord Duke,
11 fh:s letter will probably lurprize your j
,f g race » coming l from one who has not the i
f_ honor of yoiir acquaintance. I have ftrug- |
( gled with my f.-elings to express such an ait i
ie of iudifcretion ; but the susceptibility of!
the fi'mle heast would not fuffer me to fcifie I
1. my emotisns. If lam guilty of what a de-!
licate mind might be induced to trejt \#ith |
harfhnefs and indiffertnee, inquire, my lord !
j Duke into the cause, and that will insure J
your forgivenefs.
" I am in love, and I am miferahle. The j
e world has placed our fituations in ■
extremes—therefore, what can be a greater
ftimulus to gratitude than the condescension
that will no longer fuffer such situations to
be an infurmountahle obje£tion to at |leaft
U the honour of an interview.
f "My heart is full My style, I know
s niut exhibit my weakiiefs, whilit I hope it
will not fail of impressing on your mind my
miseries—is it is confufed, consider that the
dearest objeft on earth breaks on my mind,
and fuffers me not to pay attention to the e
legance of composition, or the beauties of
language. The honest eloquence of love,
„ ™y dear lord duke, I hope and sincerely
trust, requires neither.
' "I have the honour to be,
" My Lord Duke,
r " Your ever," &c. &c.
Brighton, Aug. 21. 1
r s he above letter was received by his '
! Grace, which, with his wonted politeness,
; he answered. He wat apprised that the la
dy could rtqt write, but, toaratify a whim,
he cncouragtd a cojrefponder»ce, that will,
we have no doubt, afford amusement to the 1
' public
DUBLIN, Sept. 12.
Fifty one traitors have been capitally con
; victcd on the late North East Circuit, the >
' \ greater part of whom are- sentenced to be 1
j hanged in the course of a present month. 1
IWe Rate this article upon authority, and '
, with concern, for the fate of so many de- 1
1 iuted wretches,*which crimes originated not '
l in theirovrn minds,but in the diabofiical con- 1
tnvance of men 1:1 a higher class of life '
1 who wrote them into the ranks of treason, 1
into which thiy were too cowardly to enter '
I themfelvej, and who now pass their time f
tranquilly, while the victims are stretched 1
in a dungeon, waiting the dreadfol sum- c
mans of the executioner, to be separated 1
forever from a wife and infant family fupi 1
ported by their former care and induitry ; f
or helplefa parentage, perhaps maintained
by their duty andaffedlion ! (
Notice to' Crerfitbrs '.
Wi *. iE.'.S Jafiah \V. Oil\b* and William
Gibbi, did <xi the oth day of June last, as- c
to the fnbfcribers, all their property for the k
benefit of their editors, this is to give notice
tB all the creditors of the above firm, tha - all
their books, as well as the fiatement of tbeir
concerns, arc lodged with Jrhn U. Dlanchard,
T>o. (>, South ' hird Street, for theirinfpe<£iion,
and also the difeharge which i»to be signed by
all tli' fe creditors who wish t« receive tha bene
fit of luid assignment.
All perfnns iridehted to the fnid firm, are here
by notified to pay their rrfp: <f|ive debts to the
said John ]) Blanchard, who is fully authorized I
to receive and fettle a'l their accounts
JOHN D. BLANCH iRD. g
JAMES VANUXEM.
A. BUILER.
Nov. i-j. mwfjt. I g
ROSS ysI&SON, "
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COT t'ON
Bengal SUGAU-, ia l.agi and boxes P
Jaru.iica, t<
St. Vincents, C RUM. e,
and j *
300 caiks RICE, aid
p >rcel of ship building RED CED AR.
Oil 27. t 1 { 2
To Gentlemen who intend /pending "
the Winter in the City. p
ROOMS to LET, 0 ,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner -j
of Sixth and Rare Streets, 'i lie iltnatuin • ■
agreeable—and vicinity has been f ree from.the late j 111I 11
coot'»g»f>n. if —| le
she Canai Uuftery, : b
Will re-commenee drawing, on Monday !
the 2cth inlt. ' tl
ROBERT BROOKE, ' c.
Ch(::k C/eri. [Pi
Nov. 11. dt2o. 'c.
| Oajett:.
he PHILADELPHIA,
11! EVENING, NOVEMBER .;?•
■r, CONGRESS.
id Fifty-four members of the House of- Re
ty prefentatives took thei'r feats this day ; but
10 a quorum of the Senate not being affemblid,
an adjournment till .to-morrow took plate.'
ie- Twel-C members of the Senate took their
an feats thfj day.
a- —-
Ihere is a report in circulation that the
BrWfh frigate Hermione has been rose up
on by the crew, and carried into Leguira.
>y
e- Ihe advocates for the profcriptionß in
ie France contend that they are juftiftabie on
fs the principle of ntfeffity -.the necefSty of
n. securing liberty l>y establishing the republic,
e- and preventing the restoration of monarchy,
f. Let us examine this queftioti.
Ie j Either a majority of the French nation are
ie J desirous of a monarchy, or they are not. If
:e they are, on the republican principle that a
:e | " majority must govern," they have a right
i- to reft ore monarchy. If a majority are not
i- ' n favor of monarchy, there can be no nn.f
---g ftty for illegal and arbitrary meafines to sup
- press the advocates of monarchy ; becau'fe
e .he cxifling laws, if supported by a majority
e of the nation and the army too, are compe- •
tent to the purpose.
Again. Either BartStelemy, Pichegra,
and Co. believe the mats of the nation to be
in faror of monarchy, or they do not. If
j they do, they have a-right and it is thtirdu- i
r j ty to destroy the ufurpatioa of a fadicn and i
e 1 give the nation the form of government they
■- vvi(h. _lf they do not, they are traitors, and
t i all their party. The la(t fuppefition will
f | make rafjfal* of those who have supported
e j unblemifted charadters, performed most ef- '
. j fential.ferv.'ces for their country, and enjoyed :
, j public confidence for a long feres of years i
I i In I iort,it will prove the chr.ra&er of the
i j tlon io base, that it cannot be believed. If
| those men are traitors, yhere is the man
: j left in the nation that can be trusted ?
i j The most probable supposition i», that
r the profcribtd party are the friends of piace
i and cjlablifhsdgovernment, and their enemies
) are determined to pursue the war ; they
t therefore found it necelfary to their bloody
purposes, to remove the friends of peace, who
r interposed obstacles to their views. It is a
fafl aflerted with probable authority, that
■ the DireiSory did not and would not fur
: nifh their ministers at Lisle, with definitive
, powers to make peaee—but when the Bri
ti(h and French negociators had agreed upon
the preliminaries, the Diredtory declined to
ratify them, or evaded. The probability is,
that this " triumph of liberty" in France,
will cost Europe half a million of lives.
(New-York Paper.)
During the despotism of Robefpitrre, a
curious incident happened at Venieuil : A
cobler of that place thought proper to put
three hogs under arrest, and to put them in
to the court-yard to eat the grass, and poi
son the prisoners with their filth. One of
these animals by some means was wounded
in the foot. The revolutionary committee
was informed of the fait; they met 'et the
priion, and a proces verbal was composed ; in
which it was dselared that the prisoners had
wounded the hog with a coimter-rcolution
ary intention. Diligent enquiry was made
through the house to difcoverthe conspira
tors ; but after fetrrching for .some time
without success, they mounted the Tribu
nal, and a Jury was funlmoned to give their
opinion of the offence. The jury, in their
verdift declared, that from the evidence be- ,
fpre them, it appeared that the hog had t
wounded himfelf with some broken glass 1
that lay in the court yard—and so the affair '
ended. The hogs were removed to give j
place to horses belonging to another member ,
of the committee ; and it was not till after, J
the 9th Thermidor, that the prisoners got 1
rid of these horses, or were themfelns set
at liberty.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED DAYS <■
Ship Neptune, Jffries, St. Übes 39 '
Rebecca, McKever, Havanna 23
Brig Fly, Brice, London 65 '
Friendship, Gallagher, Jamaica 38 1
Susannah, Hunt, Gaudaloupe 20 c
Betsey, Forrefter, St. Augustine 15 ,
Abigail, Smith, Portsmouth, N. H. 8 '
CLEARED, f
Ship Ameriea, Hardie, Hamburg r
Seymour, Williß, Baltimore v
Brig Therefida, Loulam, Baffaterre
Harriot, Vanneman, St. *rhomas's °
Schr. Hawk. Campbell, Gaudaloupe
Ranger, Wainft-, *■ Paflamaquody ~
Dinna, Weddling, New-Bedford
Sloop Betsey, Bufher, Alexandria
Wonder, Garret, Edenton ,
• he Susannah, Hunt, left at Guadaloupc
the 21 ft ult. the brig Polly and Betty, Wil. 2
liams, of Middleton, and brig Sally, Ar
nold, fent'in on her paiTagc from New-Y-ork *
to Barbadoes, cargo condemned vefTcl clear
ed both to fail for St. Bartholemews in 2
days. 9
The Fly, Brice, failed from Cowes the
22vl Sept. in company with the Argus (er- jN ;
rived at New York) and several others. Oc J . '
11, lat. 41, long. 27, was Itoarded from a
French corvette or privateer of 16 guns, p
out 30 days from Bourdeaux on a cruise, C
after examining the Fly's papers, and tak
ing her newspapers and a number of private ®
letters, allowed her to proceed.
Yeftcrday arrived the brig Fly, captain R
Brice, from Ccvves, which (he kit the 22J C
of September. The newspapers cn board
this vessel were taken away by a French
cruiser of 16 guns which boarded the Fly q
on. the 11th at, October. The French ofii- a
eel's a'fo carried away a great number of
5 letters, pSrticularly one for die tit
Spain.
Ifeia Ttti-k, »4< f
ARR!V 'D u , j
Ship Rachel, Rnps, St. Uti.vv ~" c x
Jenimv, Duktnfon. Jamaica *f,
- . Columbia, Ceok, Lift)on j ,
Brig Sa'acia, Drgger.s, l-Javarn-h ti
o e f' arj Virginia, ts £";,|
Graveseod Sept. i^.
! dr d so t!ie Britama', from Hilif. lX
'*. ! n W ' hj ; Blt Wc] 5 . i&r B i\o i, r«ui*<|
■ i>n the Downs. Sept. 16 g
. Baltimore, Ko-jemhef jf.
I he flnp Wi'Mfik, captain Stewart, whirh
ie arrived here on the Bth instant, foiled from
>- the J cxol the 2 jth August ; feft Nieu-
Dieppe the ship Niagara, Armor, for New-
York) Susanna Beard, for Philadelphia ;
n the ships Harmony, Earl ; Leeds Packet,
n Bunce, for Charleston, and a number of
>f American velfels at Amiterdam, whose name?
are not recogefted.— The Dutch fleet still
r. n man.ed blocked up in the Texel, by 'he
firmih fleet under admiral D.mcan.—Sop
e tern her 2, off the ."Band of Bara (on- of
f the Hebrides) spoke the brig Elizabeth,
a Wm lenched, mailer, of NewbtKypqu,
,t bound to Hamburgh, out 45 davs, the .
t mate dead. September 25, lat. 38 30 N
: longitude 23, 3 0, v/. was boarded by a
- French privateer (hip of 26 guns, name not
e known, who called paiticularly for the role
f equipage, wifich lie enaminei
- ■ and finding it atfd all other papers con-a,
treated-captain Stewart with great polite
, ness. Ottober ill, within fight of I'yal,
; was boarded by the British frigate Komtilus,
1 on a cruise, who behaved politely. 06to
• h'7 >" £ " 37, ,<>n S7» "5.
I i W. law nine la ge (hips., wss boarded by a
r .ngate belonoing to them, who informed
! cs.pn.n- Stewart thai they x/ere Britifli &i>
I o, war on a cruise, but he rather apprehend-
I ed they iveifc fror the Eaft-Tndies or the
" i Ca £ e Good-Hope, as they were under a
I : preis of fail to the N. E. Snd (landing the
; regular courle of Eafl-India vessels. Octo
: ber 2Cth, being in lat. 34, 32, N. Ion; . 57,
r IJ, hat! a molt vro-lent galc'ot winii from
the,S. E. to. the N, \y. supposed to be the
fame as that expended by the Weil-India
vessels—one of the cqufnotiials.
1 • '■ Awinii i| |
For Sale or Charter,
vEt-l&lv THE BP.IG
ABIGAIL, .
(Lying at Morris' Whj»rf, near
the Drawbridge)
V " a ' laullch . well fitted vessel, Urn oft new,
U burthen 1 r.j tor... r.nd is supposed will carry
11 cr £joo barrels, and iails fart. If Ilot fold \
few days, (he will take Freight for Sofion. balem,
Newburyport, portflnoth, or the . eiMndie.
Apply to WHARTON ts" LEWIS.
„„ , N °- "5. S. Front-Street,
Who b tw for sale,
Madeira Wine, Jamaica Rum, Brandy, Juni
per Berries, and 70 barrels of Liver Oil:
0- A quantity of Potatots felling' from on
board said brig e.t as. 6d. per bufhcl.
noveetbrr i 5
Fbr &ale~or ~~
The fad failing brig
Brothjers,
Lying at Gurling's whiff
VJ,;.L ourtiie.. rtrv^T
c -,"" re x ,>o ' ,weKe months old, and in
eompleat
on board, or to
Jof pb Anthony Iff Co. '
n r\y,
< 01 W.
anal Lottery-—No. 11.
W'S '; r2vvij !B M| «fcezoth
» T ml. .:tfceti for .Saie in this Lottery at
Wn D011t,,, at Wm. BLACKBURN', i ot -' fr ,,
ar.d Br,.ken Office, N».ft 4 , Sours, Stand-street—.
u-k«s 111 the ftchuylk II BrVgc Lottery,
D,,<rj wbeie c!#ck hook, are k <pt ior're K iCer.
mg- and examr irg in these, the City of \V a * inr
t°n, No. 11. and I'aterfon Lottaic» r. informa
t;r n where may be haiin most of the I.otto
n>'s authenfud by law I. any of !h : S.ateaof the
uiron.
N.. B. The w,m* of> Ba K r K , fc.t«yui w< |
r. I.'>g all kne. of Public Stocl: anU'Stcurities,
jUlconntj ;j f B«fc and Notes of Hand, sale of
! ants Iluufss, &c. &c. -mri he duiy attended to
• , Wm. BLACKBUR^.
uoyctiiber IC.
—► . . .. _ . §
French Circulating Library
JO:-£PH £. O. M. De La CHANGE
No " 110 Wlin i<t-!lreet,
» iVfv ' R * t 5 £:u> ' e w ' lo wifll to retur to the only
1- means of , K .perfect in-tre French Lan
«iaagc,%.,ar hell as ju!t opened his Libra, y , con .
U mg ol upwards ot 1350 volumes, the bell cal
cinated to afford either Ufefu! inftruAfcn, or plea
'u;re. The cond.tions, together with a catalogue
'1 the Lsi.rrry, m,y be (uen at every bcok-feller's
in twn.
M, b All tran/intions from and i:no the French,
** r and Span lib Languages, executed with ac-l
curacj ai.u dispatch. eoinj „ov. 15.
A youngMan,who is acquainted
With account., wid),., emjljymen .. e w ;!] a
fecunty l r an, t.uft reposed in liim, and ret.m
m.qdat.ons it n.j ired- should tufinefs offer
where extra of at'endance are necessary, he
would have no o!;je«ion_a gre.t fatary would not
beexFefted-ahnedirefled to B B. and kft at
r ijs oihee, will be attended to.
no* i
t'OR SALE, bt """
Joseph Anthony iff Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdcaux Brandy, rft and 2d
pr ot, j ft landed
ISO bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior qudity
9 do. Sulfa, do ,: 0
A (juant.ty (.f heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon I:;>o of the fir ft eujlity
Kigjiprtof Janij.ioa ipiritt^
Old Londonp rticular Madeira niae 11n pipes &
do. 11 ajket do qr. ciiki.
New -Ejsp'anS rum in hogflieads
Gcnaiai Hollaud Gin in pipes'
Claret in cr.f s
'pe'Snviecii 1 andles andftrain'c! oil
si imuJioflon beef
,Clvo(tc Kallfa f>almpnin barrels and half Larrafc
Do. Herring in ijo do
Bfft Bollon Mackarcl 111 barrels, of the fall
New-Ei.'glanri t vv 1 ; en
A few tons of Rufiia cordage
Rufiia teather beds ,•
Clover and Timothy feed irr 'aiks
Long whale bone
No 1, 3, and .•j, Boflon fail dtick
A few chefls firli <}U<lit,y*Hyfcn tea
Carolina rice ir. whole and hall tierces .iod
An ir.\tice of DutJ. hollovs glafi. v»»r
Mv : b:r 8. ' djw .FOJI SALE, j
\ Team ov five excellcntHorfes, 4
■" th a V/,g'jTOte apd/ Gears, -i he ' .oi ;es ?.re all
R: 00g, true to the dra'jgnt, a;uta:apab.e s^ oi
of haul i"!'' as gr*at a weight as in c6un -
• v. 'I he v\'and Gears arc and
m or'f!«.T. Apply to 1 URE -iN, jj or
Wdt r i'ov.n, Cheiier county, or to i^p
Thomas Fifber, y
No. 142, S. Second Street, Phila elphia. '
11 mo. 2, _ ecdjw. co „
In the Press,
AnJ fneetli'y ".vill be piiblifned by William
Young, No. 52, Second, the corner of •' ,
Chefnut Street Pc
A VIEW *
Of the Science oi' iafE rr
On the principles eftjb'lifhed in tkt elemcntt th.
of .Vets'.cine. of the late celebrated P 3
JOHN BROWN, M. D. °. n
With an attempt to correA some important er- 110
ror* of that wot k, arid cases in i'lo Oration, chie.-
ly fc'teletl from the records oi their prafticr, at
tne General liolpital at Calcutta, i w .
2>*r Willi im Tat us u Chas. Macleax. uc
To which ivfu'- joined, a Treatise on the iflion __
ps .V'ercurv upon living bodies, and its applioa
ti ,a for the cure of t'.ill ries of indireft debility
Andadiritrtatian onthe fourcts of Epidemicand.
Peitiiential difenfes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous mduifion of faAs, that they lie- . R
vtr arise from contagion, but are always proou- ] p (
ced bv certain slates, or certain vicissitudes of to
t' c atm jfphere, by Charles Rlaclsan, ot ac
CalciitM. , w
OI ;t.
At the Federal Blast Furnace, A
In Carve) —for Slitting, Platting, and tolling
Ml LLS.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers. .
Til El a fuperierity conftjlt in being free from
kiles and honey-combed places, ivbicb are cortt-
tnonh found in rollers ca/l in find, or day S(
,no»Us. Tb-fc. patent rollers are eafl tn iron
-.no-ilds, previosfly heated, and ojill lie found to
be more d.nfe, solid and durable than any rollers fu
beri lofore uftd Jnotber important advun.'age u
they have over others, i.'i thJt the necks re quirt ];
no turr.in", but are immedaitelj fit J L r "ft> * K " p
rcrunc- —■ ■■ '' r '
require Ufs water to mcke them perform their
<-vori. Then may be bad by application to the
Pcitetif-e in Plymouth, of Genimibaniel Good
win, or of Messrs. Thatcher and Hay-ward.
.4>rtf. ,»t. Sept. 19 -: §f>t
' i his Day is Publilhed,
BY MetT. Debfor., C f re.y, Campbell, Rice, and the
" o:h 1 Booklellers,
Pries One Dollar «nd iwcnty-fivt cents,
Elegant y printed on IVuve paper, and Hot
pnjfed,
By John 1 hojnpfon,
A COMPARATIVE VI£WOF
- The Conflitiitions
Of the several gtptes with each other, and with
that of the United States: ejhib.ting in Tables,
the proKiincMt features of each Constitution, and
ilifliijgtogethi-r their most important yrovif:ons,
under the fiverr.l heads ef adminifcration ; with
Jiotes andObferv3ti"n». v
Dy WH.LIAM SMITH,
Of South Carotin*, '
IL.D. and member of Ac Congrtfs of the ,
United SjUtes. ,
Dedicated to th* Peopb ol tht tTnited States. ;
N. B. A Copj s printtd on an inferior p»- ]
per, at 3-4*hsof a dollar.
February 6 ' mwf 1
City Cotnmijfiontrs' OJJice,
June 11, 17V7- j
JN pursuance of an ordinance from the feletf
1 and rominon councils, p=fled the 12d day r-f
Mav lalt, appointing the city ccJnjfnHlioiicrs,
xind prescribing their duties, feaiangth,
NOTIC2 13 HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five dillriifls,
each to be under th* luperintendance of one of
the city commissioners, whoistobe individually
relponfible for the cleanlineft of the fame, and
are as follow-
Driftri& No. 1. From the south fide ot Ce
dar-ftrret, to the north fide of Spruce-nreet, uti
r the fuperiittendencc of Nathan Boys.
2. Frorti the north fide of Spruee-ttreet, to
*he north tide of Walnut-ftreet,under the fuper
•intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide oi Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, under the fupermtendence ol
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-Rreet, to the
north Sd.-: of Mulberry ftrect, under the fuper
inttndence ( f \Villiim Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulben y street to
the north fide of Vine-flreet, under ihe luper
intendence of Nichols Hitks-
The cleaningof High-street to be in cortvrton.
' £">" A Hated meeting of tht city commiflion
er3 is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
Ju!y r 4. eolm
Standi for Draymen, &c.
In pnrfuance of an Ordinance from theSeleH and
Common Councils,bearing date the is// day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City Cornm\jjioners, <Sc. Seel, the lsth.
fT '"HE following plases are fixed upon by the
JL said City Coaimifuoners for Stands fcr
Draymen ahd their 'lorfes. t
In Vine-llreet, eaftvvard of Front-street, on
both fides.
Safiafras, High.C'nefiiut and Walftut-fttreets,
talUvard ot Front-street, cm the no/th fide only.
Mulberry-ilreet, south fide from Front to
Thtrd-ftreet. n
Front-Hreat, east fide from Vine-ltreet to
Elfrith's alley. _
Front-street, from opposite to Biack Horle al
ley to Hamilton's fiores, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft fid; irora the nOTth end of
Stumper's or Moon-'s stores to I'ine-ftreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
drawbridge, north fid*, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South llreets, east of i roEt
llreet, south ltde.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag ftonc crofiingsj east fide, opposite George
o Serond-ilreet, between SalTifras and Vine
flrects, weft fide.
Firth-ilreet, east fide from Chelnut to Mill-
SaiVaft'as-ftrcst, from Third to Fourth-flrset,
east fide. . , . „
No dray or horse to stand w.thm ten teet of
Zn sTM\VS FOR HACKNZr COACHES.
pine hreet, north Mc from Fourth to Fifth
' i«i»»b-»rtet, between Clicfnut and Walnut
ftrectJ, weft. v .
Branch-It,ftet, north fide,bitw»en i bird and
Fourth ftrects.
!ulv 14- mw&fim
LAW BOOKS, ' ;
Lattft; London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Book/-:lters, x -,
Mo. iS, South Second, nnltfb. 50,.Market ltreet,
I r AVE jufl received hy the 1 ite arrivas Irom wh
Loudon and Dublin, theii fpriitg imports Tic
frioii, ccnfifUngcf u variety of*thc lattft and mull u j
luproved l.aw Boohs, which,added tothofe ahea
dy on forms the molt extensive collection cv.
cr offcredfot fj!e in country. They thfifefore | jj e j
hes Jciveto notice, that Irom the nature of thwr Di l
coiine&icnsin Dublin, tliey are enabled to fe'lJnih , Em
editions (as they, have hitherto done) at ' L \ff. j r 7
lowest prices. The following are among - *® hteil , n
publications. . Fin
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chapcery, 2 v. .«. Ab
Peake's Cases at J>'ifi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports clu
i:i the time of Lord Hirdwicks ; Vloyer's Pi ociers lta ]
PraAice in the ,Ecclefufticil Courts ; Barton's- w;
Treatise on a 3uitln Fruity ; Tk'd's PraftShee of
the Court of King's Bench ip I'erfooal Actions, 2 1..
parts cc.-nplete ; Ward'* l.aw of Nations ; Cm.le
on Ufcs ; modern Reports, l» vols. London tdi- i
tion.
H. and P.Rjq* OKpeit t* receive by the urfl ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
D&rr.ford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a nujnber o!
new publications.
i6.
The History of. Peftnlylvania,
By ROiifißf PROUD,
Ig now in the prels, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by Zkcha
j riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chelnut-ftreet, __
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to ihe printed projH>fal*, until the
work is readv for tht fubferibers. J
July ' ..,4 ; _* aWtf at
THIS DAY PUBUMTSD, t0
And for Me by 7IIOMAS DOBSON, at the | ), a
Stone House, No. 41, south Second llreet, th
EVENINGS at HOME,;
op., THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Consisting ot a variety of Mifcellanrous Pieces for _
the inftru&ion and imufementof YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely printedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollar^.
The variety and excellence of these piccrt are
fitch, that the book Heeds only to be known to be
universally esteemed one of the most v.aluible pub
lications th t can be put into the bands of ycung
persons: • >.L
-—~ T>eiighttul taiK to rev the tender tTfoigTiT,
To teack the youn<* idea how to flioot, ~
To pour th« frefti iuftrudion o'er the mi(id,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
Thr generous purpose in the glowing bread."
Thomson.
AuguA 24. mwf 4 w (
: r , THIS D-VY IS PUBLISHED, . 1
By THOMAS DODSON, at the Stone House, o
No. 4i f lolithSecondflreet, f
Letters And Conversations, j;
Between fevcral Younto I.a diet,proving and in
terelbng fubjeA*. j
Tranfiated .from tkc Dutch of Madam de Camion
vrjth alteratioifs and imprpvemcnts,
1 Printed on jmt faffr, <irtJneatly Uu/td,
Pj iit 9-ft JvUtjr. 1
j AMIt>ST the tide r of moijefn Rsinances, painting t
tales of «traordinary distress, or ef defpernte or ,
' artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and j
which it would.be for the honor of youpg laiits to
be ignorant ps, this Httle book comes forward »o so- (
licit notice, where in a variety of incidents, not ex- (
ceeding the fyoundj of r_??l lify, .the frop'r, iiec.ijrfs :
c clegat / and natural di~nky and importance ot the Femah
eiaraarr is exhibited in an intereding point of vitw, j
aad prrfents examples of real and attainable excel
" Icrce. .
l'he jpublifhfr w=s Co much j;laaf«dwith.the pent;
fsl, that he was perluadcd he Ihould do a pleasing
~ lirvictt to ths ccromuuiiy by fending it i».»«ucu
lSrt.iou. Augufl 14 —I*W4W
jj sift laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
4 Parchment and Paper.
i, A FEW copiet of the above ail may be had a)
he Office of th» Gazette of the United States, No.
119, Chcfnut-fl-reet. July 19.
The Partneriliip,
T T the firm of FREEMAN W Company,
j LJ is diffohed by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands again ft tfeefaid House are de
fifed to render the fame to T. IS. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House arc deOred to make pay
1_ ment to him—'By whom business will in future be
carried on,at hiiStore, No. 39, South Front-flrcet.
0 August 7 eod 4 w
Richard and James Potter
h HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
3t l(^> South Fifth-ftrcet.
.-■uguft %. w&f6t
J! Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carlijle,
Sbtppenjb iirg and Sim bury
STAGES.
n TPHE public are requrfted to tike notice, that
JL the partuerlhip which has far some time fub
l~ lifted betweoa Mathias Slough of LancalSer, and
William Ceer, it now diflilved ; bat, not as M.
Slough infinuatestß the public without jufl cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jefl from M. Slough to W. Gecr, dated the 19th
December lalt. a recital of which it not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
j more circusnftantially informed of the merits of
" . this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
"■ the peruial kif M. Slough'r- letter, and thea can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ty jufiifiahie in attaching him-
? e felf to any other person in the prosecution .of the
cr Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any pther 'place. ,
on Now from the liberal and generous fappqrt the
public to confer on the firft effort in
tsj this business, William Geer, in conjun&icu with
ly. Messrs. Reily, Weed apd Witmer, is determined
to to prosecute and carry it tffi, with cv-ry care, at
tention anildifpaichthat a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie eat) poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
al- with carriages, horse«, and every
render the paliage fafe and cominodious, inform
of thofs wno with to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
« George Weed's, the sign of the Y.'lilrc Horse,
' Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancafler, Harriiburg,
CaVlifle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hkherto
■ ellablilhed.
For the further accommodation of the puolic,
a Stage will ft.irt every Wednesday from the house
r s e of Samuel Ivider. in Harriiburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
Jne and return fiom theoee and arrive at Harrifturg
every Saturday, so that passengers deflmed for
' ul " Lancafteror Philadelphia, nay proceed sn Man
' days.
set, WILLIAM GEER.
LancaJUr, Jan. 17, i? 97-
of j4_ 3 This Lirie as Stages ftarti from tint
hoiifc of William I'errsc, in Lar.cafter, en every
Tueklay and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
fth cending to »he'. wefward- an' 1 irom the house of
nr. gatijutrl Kid 1 in ilarnfburg every Wednef
nut uay morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Jhipprnfnurg, and return;,
ad • from tiier.ee on evfcry Thursday : pcrfonhirg the
fc:r.» routine daily at In its. tour Irom Huladei
, phia. ' wwf
Thomas Herman Leuffer, .
North fifth street, coiner of North alley, No. 34, j And
HAS FOR SALE,
"EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine incaf;»and.
-2—i boxes, fu years old Ut
While Graves Win ft in cases
Ticklenburjjja tc 'I
Ruifia Sail Cloths
tiQpvens Duck In
P'fe Linen
Heilians T
Diaper aud Table Cloth r at<
Empty bags i
Oram on German Clf*h
\n aflortmentof black coloured Ribbons T
Fine German Laces \
About twelve tous RuHia clean Hemp Uni
Clover Seed ft
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family yfs gar
Window Ghfs ' 2ft —law refp
Excellent. Boufdeaux BVandy •
l)i*:o ' " di't • Cl-ret i:i eaies ters
Just received, and lor Sale by mil
Runille 1$ Leech. thai
J,, s . jr. sawtf
r- Of I
Will be Landed* $
From on board the {hip A&ive, Capt. Blair,from Vt'l
-
10 bales white ftuflla clean Herap
2 calks Clover Seed
fief Sale by
Thomas Herman Letffir,
North Fifth street, Ko» 34• ( L *
Tune IS. ? ty!
TO B£ SO^D,
And immediate 'pojjeffion given,
A Convenient well limbed" &rick I cnement, wc
with a cook house and other out houses, situ- ,
atcd in a pleasant part cf the borough of Wilmiflg- «
ton, in the Statt; of Delaware —I he lot of gfound t <
has forty feet front on West-street, and it
through the square to Pafture-llreet, on which is tk
erecled a stable aud carriage honfe. «
ALLEN M'LANE,
Wilmington, Aug. 30. • U<
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for tile by John Morton, No. I«. 6, South et(
Front-flrcetj , t ; t
Hyfbn
Hyson Skin (.TEAS,
Young Hylon C
Imperial J -
April to. ' ' eotf
For sale or to be let on ground- «
rent, a ,
Attainable Lot of Ground S 21
SITUATE on the iiorih-eiftcorner of \Val- ai
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- si
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front ']
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen ( ,
feet and an half on Fifth ftree: ; th?re are at i r
present two l'mall two story brick houses, and a S
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, fir Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
\Yith conyenidUt floret, wharf, &c. fisuate on J
Watfr-ftrejet. between Mulberry and SaflafVas
street;., (jontaiiiiug in front on Water street fil- r
Sty-four feet, and continuing tfcat breath east-
C ward ninery-five fe«t, then widening to the S
fauth thirteen feet fix inch.es. Thel'e houses •
0 ave the convenisnce of a public alley adjoining £
" 011 the north fide, and are a very desirable fitui
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who
* miyhavr ocrajion for storage of goods. This .
property will be fold on very reasonable terms _
[' for ca!h For further information apply to the
printer. I
July 31. m&wtf {
5 ~ X.Q .. B£SO LD, j
Andpojpjioa g'ruen immediately, 1
\ LARGr. two story brick House, handsomely !
'I XjL situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
' and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a' range of back huildlngs 51 faet in
'' length, and a piazza of 57 feet. I here is a puir.p
'• in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage ho«'< md two
ft ablet, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for 17 liorfes. The hcal
y* thinefs and pleasantness ot its fitu?.tior, and the
ns number of genteel and agreeable families in and
e " n«ar the town, rtiider it a dcf.rahle rttrcrat for a
ld gentleman from the city. rhtcJmmodioufncfs of
y- the house, its central position, and the langcnrfs of
Ujeflables.makeit every way fuitablcforatavern,for
:t- which it his always been confiderd as a cspitil
fland. Inquire on the pretuifes, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
' 0- Princeton, Ang. 15. 2 9 —dlwaawrf
_ City of Washington.
' SCHEME."
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A m:gniftccntdwelling-houfe 20,000 dollars,
iat Sr, cash 30,000, are 50,000
ib- 1 ditto ij,ooo & caO« i 5,00« 40,00(1
nd j ditto 15,000 ft cash !J,ooo 30,000
M. 1 dittt) 10,000 caih to,ooo ' ao,ooo
"e ; , ditto 5,000 & cast) j,ooo 10,000
ib- 1 ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 10,000
ith j ca fli prize of < ro,ooo
m * » do. • 10,000
bc ' 10 (to. 1,000 , - - to.ooc
0 »e do. foo - , - 10, pop
l * e 00 do. 100 - - ip, 000
0 ' 00 °
400 do. 2A - - 10,000
l le 1,000 do. 20 - 10,000
n f. 15,00 a do. 10 - rfß,ooo
the *6,739 Frizes,
in J3.j6i Hlank«.
led 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
at- ■ ■ » ■
ub- N. B. Tofavour thofc-ivho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the priie of 40,000 dollar? will be
led the i, ast drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the, last
lto but ONI : ...
irm And approved notes, fecur-ing payment in either
the mon«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
at he received foi aoynumbcr not lefsthan 30 tick
ife, ets.
day This Lottery will afford an elegant fppcimen of
irg, theprivite .buildings tp bc crtdled in the City ol
rto Washington—Two beautiful defigps are already
lelefled for the entire Ironts on two of the public
die, squares; from t'hefc it ispropofed toereel
)ufe twocentreand r
un- fible after this fettcfy is fold, and to convey then),
lay,, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
ui'g the manner dcfci'ibed in the fchcme for the Hotel
for Lottery. A nett dedu&ion. of five per cent, will
on- -be made to defray the ueceltry expenses ol print-,
ing, &c. and tlv, furplui will bc made a part of
the fund intended for the Natbnal Umverlity, to
be erected within ths city of V<a(hington.
this There4feo»rit«BSg«.ei for ihc payment of the
,ery Prizes, are held by the President and two Birc&-
jro- ors of the Bank of 'Columbia, and are valued at
■ of more than half the intount of the lottery,
ncf . SAMUEL BLODGET.
Pa- ,5, Tieketsmay be had at theßsmk ot Colxm
;rn(,ia ;of James Weft Co Baltimore; of i cter
the Gilnaan, Pofton : of John Hopkim, Aiehmond :
del- and of Richard WeiVs, Cooper's Ferry.
,r Biwf
This Day Publilbed,
And to be fold by, WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of ri
Second and C-hefnut streets, mers
Price 3 ~fyt/js of a J}iUur, L _ n
Observations on certain Documents j-^ r
Containc-i in No. V r.nd VI of (bort
" The Hi story of the 'United States for fever
the year 1796," ' U PP
In which the cu ahor of si*e,culation against Rabc
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Job'
Late StcaaTARV of the Trj asury, is FULL\
IUJFUTi D. i m t
WRIT "[UN P.r UiMSELT. 4' a
Tlris publication prefects a ftatement; 'J ilc '
of the base means praflifed by tji>. ja. qb;«sof the lyi
United States to the character* ot thofc Af/j
who arc confidi red as hollilc totht-ir dilor- ' "
gari2ing fchrmcs. It aif> co-itaios the cor- Job
refpondence between Hamilton and Xlcffrs. Bdj
Mrnroc, Muhlenburgh and Veiia'blc; on the sub- C
)cS of the documents a'orcfaid, and a (tries cf let
ters from James Reynolds and his wile to Mr. Ha-
I miiton, proving bcyoud the polal.iility ol a doubt, J
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring tonfpiracy oil the part
of the latter and his associates to extort
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholefaie purchaf-rs, f^r
cask. Orders to be addressed to Mr Young. [jr ,
.lu?uß 25.
No. 188. A 1
Dijlrid of Pcnnfyl'oauj#, to wit '
HE I r RSMKMBBRED, that on the
C L - • ) twenty fixtb day of July, in the tv/eni
ty f«cond year of the tpdepcnderceof the United —;
States of America, John Fe.nk.o, of the said dif
trii£t,hath dep.ofited in th'is.oCice the title of abook,
tRu rifl.t whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
" Observations 011 certain documents contained ]
" in No. V.and VI. of "TheHiftory of the Unit- t h e
" cd States for the year 1796,"* in which thft charge
" of fpcculacion, against Alexander Hamilton, late
' k Secretary of the Treafory, is fully refuted—*-
" Written by himfclf " '
In confoi'rriity to'lie a«S of theCongrcfs of the .
Ucited States,.entitulcd, " An ait for the 1
agemerit of learning, by fccuring the copies of 1
map.s, (Jiartsand books to th'j authors ani/ propri- 'if
etorsof fuchcopics, during,he-tninestherein men- J
tloned." . 15'
tJAMUEL CALDWELL, I Ir.
Cirri if the Di/friS of Pennf-tlvanw. , fvj
w 4 w _js :
An elegant. House in Arch Street, i
TO be let and entered on immed aiely a large } _
and elegant house it the. Corner ps Arct afld j v
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms :
and one dinUg room —the larjjefl is 31 feet by , *
26 —and two are so conneftcd by folding doors t
- as to make but on.e. . Also, five bed rootp9> ..be- 4-
- fides 5 in the garret, well finished for servants.
t There are stables and a coach house, with evry -
> eonvcnicrice for a family. Enquire n No. it),
t in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
1 Strfet. /
Aug. rj.. t \
William Blkckburp, u
I Lottery and BkoKkß's OFFICE n n
s No. 64 south Second-?reet. ).
- rs in the Caiml Lottery, No. 11, wfcich -j
J_ comraanced draiyiag.the 19th May, FOR g
e SALE;. The price of tickets-vyill rife in prfpor- b
s tion as phi' drawing advances, particularly o
c®unt of five firft drawn tickats ; prizes of f
. four t,?>oufand dollars each, on the last day ol v
0 drawing;.
Check Books kept forfxam.ir.atUn and register
ing, ia the Canal, No. 1, City of WaikingWn.No.
"2, and Patjftfon Lotteries, ... >
e Also, tickets forfalc in the Schuylkillbridgc and ;
Perk omen Bridge loKeries, which will begin
draivirg in the courfc cf the futnmer. • I
~ fheJiufinefi of a Broker in all .kinds of Stock, j
Note*, Lands, &c-3c«. trMifaAod with the
utmost a;tention.
ly ! June 2 • - [
" Erflcine's View of the \Var. j
in
tp JUST PUBUSIIED,
1C By ROBERT PAMr'BELL & Ci>i
0 No 40 South Second street,
TPrice pi Cents]
u" A View of the Caiifes and Confequen
'd cef of the present War with Francs. \
II By the Honorable Thomas Erskini.
: f M*y 15
r/i TAt E TRIALS,,
Sold b W. Young, Booydler, No- 5». South Se
cond-Ureet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
C~ lONtainifig the impeachment, trial.and acq«it-
J albs Francislippkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and Joh» Nichnlfon, Comptroller Ocn
cral—(a one Urge 2 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has.fpr falCi a general assortment of
'• Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pnek
rs, cgc, well aflorted. and entitled to the drawback if
too a*parted. July 7—*
For Sale,
„ l 0 That wellknonon place, called VAuvfmam's
JOO FIRRY,
)oo /^ J N Nt'thatn'my creek, 18 miles from Phila
xio Udelphia, oa the New York poll road,
)0O containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
, oc premises are a tyo story stone house o<;cu
}on pied as a tvern, and a goot} one story flonc Uit
-300 chen, a large frame liable with a gtied thrpftiin*
300 floor, and i'ome out buildingi—alfo a well of
500 good water, and an excellent ice House. On
30p this place is a malt elegant situation foragentle
-00 msn's feat, commanding a view of.the Nelham
iny to its jundlion w(iil) t)ie DelawaK, and thence
across to the Jprfcy ;liare. It has the privilege
of one half tlie toll received from the bridge.
Eor terms apply.to the.StiWcriber,
00u MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vay 24-
\7t COLUMBIA HOUSE
A6T Boarding School for young Ladies,
■her TV /rRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
will IVI lire and refpea, returns her sincere ac
ick- knowledgemcnt for the liberal encouragement
she lja» received. during four years reMence m
nof Philadelphia ; and aiTures her' friends and the
yof public, so far from intending to. decline her
:ady fcbool, she has midc a superior arrangement for
iblic the more convenient accommodation o. her
reel fcholari. —Every branch of ufrf'il and jioHte
pof- education Is particularly attended to by Mrs.
>«■», Groombridge aud maflcrs excelling in their
in rtfpei^iveprof^nioris.
[otel Corner of Suruce and Eleventh Streets.
will June ?thj 1797." ftimftf
' ir!l : The situation is perfcijlly bf.Blthy ; and made
t0 more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
' to of ground adjoining the house.
Dat And to be hsd of Messrs. Uobfoit,Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfehcrs in the
city,price one dollar,':winty-l.ve cents,it! hoards,
urn- New Views of the Origin of the
c " r Tribes and Nations of America.
: By BENIAMIN SMITH BARTON, mu.
Jar.e 10.
Philadelphia, Cil, 13.
THK subscribers inform their frit»■'«. : custo
mers in town and country, that their flcr:-6 are now
open in the city, and others are daily openiDg, and
tha: from the present appearance of the prevailing
difordet have reason to hope, their friends may
irortiy come to the city with perfect faf ty. By
[evera] latg arrivals, numbers have received freih
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith <3 Co. P. IV. Gallaudet & do.
John Da-vis & Co. Sit greaves & French f
Neill Iff Smith, George Dobfon,
Wiltbergcr and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex fin:Jland qn4 po. T. R. tfardenberg. \
Jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and Co••
Owen & Jona. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele & Zantzinger, William Barker & Co.
Adam Zantzwgar, T-horpps Armat Son-
John Fries, J. Miller, jtin. and Co.
Bcrfjamin Jehu fan.
Ovff. 14 .
"POYNTELL's ~~
Paper Hangings Manufaflory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
IVhere be has fir Sale,
AVERY extensive flock, of evejy, colour, and
of thl-moft approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
ALSO .
A handsome aiTortment of the tnoft falbioßaile
Silver Grounds London and Pari* Papers, and
very best pain Qrqen and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety ot Borders.
November J. ' C°6t
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do of Hrfon,
Imported'in the W r oodrop Sims, and for sale by
the i'ubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
» november 6. eotf
s ; ImportedinthefhipMANCHESTEß,
Penjamin Shewpll, Matter,
• From liourdcaux, and for sale by the i'ubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut St'.eet.
Bonrdeau;< Brandy ~i
Iriftl market elarct in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drtavback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
, Thomas Murgatreyd.
* . WHO HAB FOR SALE._ ,
| Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
y ' Rota do- du.
-s ' Pimento in bags ■
> 4000 bulbels Liverpool falu
i. Aug. 24. frut&stf.
I To be 8,61 dat Public Vendue, ;
h (if not before d'tfpofed of at private sale) %
ON Friday, thp firft ot December next, at fix
•o'clock iH (he evening, at the Merchants' CoU
+ fee H«t|fe,»in Philadelphia- Forty Thoyfand ■ Niftc
Hundred Thirty tyine acres „,of .L,ANP,
r- now or late in the County of Wafnington, and Cdm
monwealth of Pennsylvania, acd on the of
Fcefa and. Wheeling Creeka and Ten. Mile. Run,-—-
c!: These Landa ti*nbered> and.were
IR patentecd. early in 1787, exc.ept 37901 .acres or therea-r
IT- bonis, which were patented in i 79 2 * P 11 ?
tc-* of the purchase money to be paid at the time of sale,
of £pr the residue a credit, of one» two and months,
of will be given, on interest and good feeurity.
Qflobcr 6. . f 3 £WtS
Iso be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before d'ifpofed of at private fdie) „
nd Fiid,ay, the fir it day of Pecember, at, fix
rin V>r (>\|ock iu.t»he evenings ajithc Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six 'I boufand S>c
cJ; vao Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in t-flo
J-.J State of New-YorJc, betwc»n.the nortbcjrn bounds
of Pinnfylvaoia and the now, or fete,
\n the townships oi Hamdwi autj Warren, and coun
—#■ ty of Montgomery . Ope fourth of the p-rcfeate
money is to be paid at the time ot iale ; for the icq
(iduc a credit of one, tywo, and three months will be
given, inttreft and good security. t .
O6>oae 6. 3 awtS _
Peale's Museum.
This valuable repofitpry of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mir.d
and enlarge the Miideritanding, is Qpeaed Jaily, as
ufun!. It iland* in.an airy and healthy situation,
aa-.i free from the epidemic that at present alflias
' tke city ;it may, thcrefere, be frequented wiUli
~ ~ tlie created fafety. _ ' . •
As an Atnufement, the study of Nature is. the
« c . most rational and pleating :as a Saeuce, the molt
fnWim.- and iuGrutflive. It elevates the mind and
expanse bvart. Thqy. _ -
' <" lV!x,vi Nature's -worh can charm, xvilb boil bitnjel/
»it- « fj c [j contfcrfc."
'tof Many ioter-fting additions hive lately been
lcn - mad# to this Mufeunv- ajd. the fca.there.'.
s ' 3 varjfty of the most rare and beautfiul
, fubiefils, « now vjty advantagepufly arranged,
II of Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (fo.nie ot them
IC V calls tcqm Jiature) are here dreJTed in their Jirofer
'' ' habits, and placed in attitudes charaAeriiSic of tludr
rcf»e<fti»e nations. Heie may he f«e» the North-
American.Savage,aqd tho.Savage of Soutii-Amen
, ca—a laboring Cliincfe, and. the Ghinefe Gentle-
T s man—the fpoty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
with foipe Natives of the South Sea (Hands. Ihe
ill*- immense variety and interring.diversity which.
>ad, this Museum offers to the view, may Ire seen hut
file oannothe defenbtd with fuj! efftil.
;cu- Price only I-4'h of a dollar.
kit- Seyt. 48. . "y. I
'l Davis s Law Book Store,
On -Vo. 319, High-Street.
itle-
GEORGE DAVIS,
; nce TTIEING hufied for forne time past in prepar*.
lC J) tions foe rempv.ipg into hi? profent l.ouie, L..i
e - been under theneceflity of poflpou.inguptil this day
informing thegsntlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the l,lHited States, that his (prhig impprtatiqn cf
f- law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
terms that he trusts will entitlehim 19 rhe.likc pre
freencc bf has rtpencrced for i*yeral years pad-
Catalogues,. oombining rhe nioft wned co)!. <
® . tion ever imported iito this country, are printed
)« f - and will be delivered on application.
i(: ~ June z.7. atlt
°ei.» Be ft on Glass ManiifaGion'.
I the ■ ;
'^. sr rp|w citizns of the Paired States are heiv'oy
1 * or <X iliforacd, that the >'f V^indow
~c r Glass is now conimer.eed at tiie Glass House in Bci
-1 trn
Vir4> 'lt is rceilkfs to fay any thing of the excellent
their Quality of the Boflon Gl-il>, as it is so well known
throughout the, Uuited States, to be in every rcfpcA
Is. reatly superior to any ever imported from ?otopv.
Vf °it w iU. 1>« ,«ut to any c»ramooly ttfeU ; and
naile rr.oy .be constantly had by a pplying to Cuarlks ?.
d lot fori**', at the Glass House.
Orders frjnn the UirantStates to be acldreUea to
Vr Gore, Court-street, Boftoß.
Bolter., "'ept 30,1797 . Q
?Mrt. Timothy and ?.}afra, 'Cbarlfox ; Mrjn.
frte ' HoJi' itoffa* - v - c
ards anJO'Conior. Norf-Jt ; Mr. Mi, Price, Atcxcr.Jna ■
u Yuudt and £r°v>«, Mimtre; Mr. Hvpk,r.s,
the si ;v .Y;rh : and Mrffrt. HaJ/ir. {5" Gtud-xti), Kar!*
:a . fur.J; £{r. S.ymOur, Suvmnab t. "" ' ''iV$ c '~ '*
p tiie abtyc utce a ivtsk 6 '^' JC
* r it a f.hu la tie £& Sri? •