tttt of the WttttEfc 6 s Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
: r SATURDAY EVENING, XI.
— " " -« r r 1
For Sale, £A
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET, Wi
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels w.
and half barrels
Ditte Herring and MSckarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Dkto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and csarfe Salt . „ . . i_n.Rn
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster &f Paris, 111 the ftoae
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December i. '
The Elephant, Ho
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand An
Dollars. $}.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet. hill
He eats i?o weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of Li,
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter, CJI
drawinj the corks with his trunk. u
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five nailes an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Conti*ent. .
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in"
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at -
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him— ri
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be resumed. „ , ,
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather a
will permit. he
' December 31 ne
- W A N'T ED;
A MECHANIC, to erea Spinning and Weaving
t^ry-App b ly oVv^POKTr" *
tory Appiy No. 4 oi,North Front-street.
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
and a ma" of liability. r
Globe Mill, December 29,
THE SUBSCRIBER g
WISHES to alccrtain, whether a certain EDVVARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
whu quitted Ireland in i783,0n:54, and ' came into
this Country, ('tis fuppafed to Philadelphia) about , v
four years since, be living or oead. As this intdli- t l.
gence is of the highest importance, itw.lie ni
f y received, by ./ GE °" « ' t
' No. 313. ir
December 31. w f■ n _
Fwlnt Bruflels & Turkey Carpeting,
Fo?fale by George Dobfon, Ne. 15, South Third-f.rcct. _
f December IJ.
' FOR SALE,
i - fuli-failing schooner ORION;
Seventy tons burthen ; fifteen months
. nM ; her frame is of the best of white
oak : (be is a faithful built velTel, handsomely finithed off
and well found in every particular ; is ready to receive a _
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex
pence on her hull, fails or rigging : she flows fix hundred '
barrels i has a handsome cabin and steerage. and a half
deck which will flow from f venty-five to eigh y barrel*.;
has been newly caulked, graved and painted. For terms
Wy to . BENJ AMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, corner of Market and Filth-streets, J
Or to the Captain on board said schooner at Mcffrs.
Willis and Yardfley's wharf, Cheinut-ftreet
wharf; w)\sre there is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels, ,
the best of American Mess Beef, and iome very excellent
Boftohl manufa<slured Chocolate.
December 26
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship NAxcr,
Cuthbert Kiggs, mister.
fail with all convenient i'peed. For
freight or passage apply to ;
William Bell ;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales Irifli Flannels, and i boxej Linens
45 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo . Russia Matts.
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 179 6 » tmvftf
FOR SALE,
54^&' 1 HE SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Maste*,
hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Tf the MARY is not fold in a few days, Ihe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Qflober 31. d
For .Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuil Pile, Mailer,
Burthen 105 4 7"95 [ens regifier, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live oak
a" d was ffieathed 13 mn"'hs ago, fte
. h"f just had a compleat out-fit, and may be Tent to sea
at a verv trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Ntckhn Cp.
IVbo have for sale on beard said iSejfel,
n calks of fine yellow paint.
0 boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink Hands and note prcfles.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
teas.
4o!ooo N'anVeem of itieftrllquality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
t chefls Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few Manchester goodswell alTorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Gißgh ims, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
, boxes black fewingfilk.
ISO crates Queens ware well alTorted.
10 tons sheet lead.
Nai'.s aflorted; flat and (harp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, r an d hogsheads.
New-York Market, J
40 pipes and .0 hoglhe.ds Tenenffi: wine.
g tierces Snake Root.
jlog? Mahogany. tth&ftf
Nov 1 7.
Imported from London & Liverpool, Fr
EARTHEN WARE, ia crates and hogsheads, well
affoi'ted Th
Win e Bottles in hampers
Window GUfs of all fi/es
Two eases of stationary
One chest of yellow Jefuitt Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
A small consignment of Rose Blanket*, liMmels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c. Gr
Paintb of various colors.
Ba/ka fait in hogsheads.
Also on hand, Fi*.
Madeira wine, very old, jn pipes, hcglhcads and Fou
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality Sa
Anchors of different sizes *
A few trunks of ladies Jfreivch lhoe« afforttd 1 *
Silk nankeen, &c.
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, confiftmj of »£
Olhaberi-S, ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks. 1
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias, &c.
And for sale by the package only by ,
Thomas Iff "John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nov. 15. ' -• otf ._ .
Philadelphia and Lancafier Turnpike
Road Company.
A Meeting of the Stockholders for the Eleflion of
a President, Managers, and other officers, will be j
held at the Company's office on Monday the 9th Jan. Th
next, at 10 o'clock.
By the Bo~rd.
WM. GOVETT,Sec ry.
Decembers, 1796, _[*»"■ 1 ft-Utg-h
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORK-
No. 61 South Third ftraet-oppofite the national »cw Bank.
QAMUEL M FR UNCUS and JOHN VAN REED,
O have entered into co-partnerftiip. under the firm ot
FR OUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on con-.miffion every species of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, ice.
Money procured on deposits, &c. See. all kinds c
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
dispatch ; accounts adjusted,. and books fettled, in the
moll correal manner. Contlant attendance will be given
fhey solicit a share of the public favor; they '.re deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy dbf rved.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
August a 7. 1 m&wtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No- 64, South Seccni> street.
TICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. », for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in _
I the late lottery. .
, Check Books kept for examination and r filtering, tor
' the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattelon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information whore (j
j tickets-are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn h
f tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- J
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for q
' examination.
The fuWcriber foliciti the application ot (he public
and his friends, who wist. to purchase <jr fell Bank S;ock,
s ' Certificates. Bills of Exchange or-Notes, Mouses, Land 6,
!' &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
* * Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
fale*at Ten Dollsrs each, whieh will be drawn early 111
> the SpriHg. , ,
it Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, 18, 1796. mth
SALT P E T R E.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petrc for
sale at No. ifs, South f hird-ffreet.
3T November 5.
A C A R D.
If Monsieur G H. Somle,
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June last, and arrived
at Bolton .- bout the middle of Anguft, in the ichooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requeued to call on
Joseph Ailthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him some information cf importance.
December 14, '
_ "Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 2.5,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
' Has received per the Diana, from London,
t0 Clouded and striped Spanish Swanfdown
Clouded Erminats and Molelkins
lke Striped do. and dt».
Figured Manillas
___ Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Caffineto and Caffimeres
Superfine printed Quiltings, newest patjerifs
Also, per different arrivals,
in A large and general assortment of Dry
jak Goods,
die Suitable to the present and approaching season.
sea November 5. 4^
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South Sfcond-llreet
Qflober 3 t. mwftf
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial f Hyson Skin.
Hyson, > Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
' nr ~ Young Hyson, j C.Bohea
&c - Dec, q. jtawjm.
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an election
; 3 for thirteen Direflors to serve for one v ir, Will be held
at the Company's Office, en Monday tli •< 1 January next
at 11 o'clock. —And agreeably to the ail ui incorporation
a statement of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHJKR, Sec'y.
Stftf FhihdelpMa, December 19, 1796. d t 9thJ»n.
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c. &c.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick, q b
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLD FHWAIT & MOORE, . "
Corner of Walnut and Secotid-ftreets, u
A mojl capital and txten/ive Ajfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which are, and
Five kinds Asparagus] Three kinds Cresses only
Four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans| i'hirteen Radish X
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip f aV o
ikven Brocoli, Fifte«a Peas vir.
Tw enty-fii Cabbage Six Savoy the 1
Bii Carrot Four Parlnip nagt
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon kno'
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce p U bl
Ton Cucumber A
Common and lemon Thyme rem
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley I com
Pot Mary gold ,Pot Marjorum ] feai
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtiiel T
Leek Kail Shalloss exct
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne the
Red abd white Clover Timothy, &c, lee. p' ie '
With a curious collection of the most esteemed I
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS, J
Being the most extenfi've ever imported into this city. | —
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and I
are warranted frefh and good. Al
Printed catalogues may be had by applying avabove. j
Dec. 17.
Just Landing, J
At South Jreet -wharf, from on board the ship Sedg- thc
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peter/burg, I hav
The following Goods : l in '
Raffia Saii Dack, firft quality.
Do. .Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper. I " t —
Do. Huckaback. j
Do Crafli.
Do. MouM Candles, 4, san 4 I
Englilh fiate.
Do. White Candle Tallow. I wi<
Do* White Soap in small boxes. lof
Do. Cordage of fine yarn. 1
Ravens Duck.
Ifinglaf«, Ift and and f«rt.
Horse Hair uncurlcd. »
Rullia Bar Iron. I ju«
Do. Hoop Iron. Ide
l)o. Nail Rods. , I fid
jo Tons and Junk. J I in
St. Petersburg Clean Hemp: I gr
For Sale by 1 $h
Philips, Cramond, & C«. th
oaebcr 11. L_
Cheap French China. v
THE fnhfcribers finding it impoflible to supply their (h
Itore with »ny more China from France, the prices j
' being too immoderate in the mauufadleries, give no- y
' tice that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
' flock on band, confiding of 1
Deflert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
' Groupts and Figures J n
r Alabafter'Vafes • j J
Looking Glafles, in gilt frames, j \
Belides India' Japan'd Toilet Delks» Chairs, Tables j g
nad Quadrille Boxei. PASQUIER & Co.
No. 91, South becond-ftreet. It]
December gth, I
For Sale, . I ■
,r By J. WARDER, PARKER Ssf Co.
An Invoice of Cordag'c,
Confiding of different sizes, from ' a inch cables down I
to rope of i inches, of different lengths: Imported in |
she (hip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
I Sept. a? dtl
Women's Cloaks.
To\ GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 15, South Third-street,
I Has just rewived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
— I don, an assortment of
Scarlet "\
J lDrab (Cloaks trimmed with fur and
Purple and f ermine.
Pearl V
I December 15- §
J Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdalhery Goods,
I Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the Very
lo\*eft terms ;
fy I Amongjt which are
I Some elegant 4 7 4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons new
I patterns
* I Ditto Furniture ditto
I Ditto Dimity
I Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
I Ditto in Gold and Silver
I Ditto Neckcloths, vefy fine
f. Mantuas of the firft quality
. Silk and Cotton Hosiery
ln I Umbrellas; of the firft quality, affortcd
to I lrifh Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanos
I Rose Blankets afforted—&c. &c.
I OAobsr 26. d
~ | Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
I —
GEORGE DAVIS annouuoes to his profeflionsl friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the 1
Union, that his l»te importation of BOOKS is now arrang
-1 ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume to an entire li
«. I brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
f I prices, which for several yeais palt have 111 so dillinguifhed a
I manner recommended ihcm.lo notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the most extensive collec
.. I tion of the latest Englilh and lrilh Editions ever imported
into this country, are publilhed, and will Ue delivered giatis
I on application.
3e . xt 'I Orders addrtffed to G. D. in wiiting from any distance
ltion I Pj;a 1 j punctually attended to.
Ihe I A number of 1 RUNKS for.Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
y• 1 A convenient near MjtKct Street Wharf,
[an. I owß. tu&f3»»
Ths Lyceum > for free Debate, ;
In the College-Hall.
Ob Wednesday Evening next the nth January, 1797. tl- e
fallowing queflion will bo debited.
(The Chair to be taken at f'even o'clock.)
" It the traffic in and holding of ilaves confident with
" humanity, morality, liberty, or policy ; or diigraceful
i' to any nation that f«nsions or tolerates it."
0- The quefllion ollaft Wednesday tm the eftabliibment
•f a National Unfverfity, was dubateil by a numerous
and refpeitable company, and decided in the negative ;
only five in the affirmative.
The Trnftees of the University have bees pleased to
favor this inllitution with the ul'e ol the College-Hall; and
Vlr. Fennixl in the fame liberal spirit, givmgthe ule at
the acconimodatiopts provided for his Le&ures; the ma 4
nagersofthe Lyceum think it proper fhus publicly to ac»
knowledge their retpeci-ive sense of this liberality thus
publicly.
Additional fires (hall be provided in the Hall during the
remainder of the cold season, and ladies and gentlemen
j coming early may be accommodated with comfortable
feats
The managers finding the receipts of the nrft evening
exceed their expenditures, think it proper to notify, that
the furplusof that and every future evening, will be ap*
plied to. some uleful, public, or chari.able pur pose.
Admittance for Ladies k Gentlemen i-Sch of a dollar.
Jan. &. dtw -
Philadelphia, Jan.\tb, 1797*
All persons indebted to the Estate of
Joseph Paschall, deceased,
I ARE requsfled to pay their refpedive debts without
I further delay, otherwile their accounts will be put into
I the hands of an Attorney to recover—And all those wh#
have any demands jgainfl said Ellate are defined to bring
lin their accounts for Settlement, to • '
SAMUEL CO VTES,
CHRISTR. MARSHALL, jun £ Ex'rs.
] CHARLES MARSHALL. J
Furniihed Apartments; or
Beard $3* Lodging.
I WANTED by two young gentltmen. Answers, i
j wi»h particulars, to be addreffetl to S. F. at the office
1 of this paper. ,
January 4. 9*_
Public Notice,
I IS HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
I judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to fuppty the
I defea in my Title to a lot of ground, situate on the Weft
I fide «f Fourth-street, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
1 in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Weftwajd, by
j ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
I shippen, and Eafhvard by Fourth-flreet, occafioneij by
. the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewis
and James Walton, by their attorney-Robert MolWneui.
• I All persons concerned, are required to appear before
I two of the juflices of the said court, at the house ct
Thomas M'Kean, esq. t"he Chief Jaftice of the slate, on
r I the 30th in ft. at 10 o clock in the forenoon, te hiake the if
s I asfwer to the bill of the foMcriber, filed in the office •£
' Edward Burd , esq. Prothonotary of the said court".
J WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
1 Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797- dt;joth
Lolt, or Mislaid, .
At the Bank of the United States—Joseph Higbee'*
j note, dated 19th December last, for twelve hundred (
j dollars, payable a; 60 days to Nathaniel Lewis & Son.
I Whoever may find the fame will please return it to said
:s 1 Bank, or to the fubferibsrs who will allow a reward «
Payment being barred, it cannot be of use to any o-
I ther person. _
ts * NATHANIEL LEWIS & SON.
I J">- 5- —— — -
For Sale,
By the Ssbfcribers —In PENN-STREET,
pn 65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
in 1 Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&r
. (£> NOTICE.
r-pHE Sale 9 of LANDS of the United States, 111 the
1 North-Wcftern Territory, heretofore advertised
)n . in the several public papers, will Commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February hext, if not foanef
fold.
January 4 ?
- Bank of PennsylVania,
, • January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Directors th<s day, a dividend o£
sixteen dollars on each flint was declared for the last
j 6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders »f
- the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafoier.
ery J*"- 3- ' dtf '- -
A Quantity of Brandy,
lew FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, In cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different fire*
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting
w& { «""•
ic Spanish Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 §_^
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS afe hereby notified that an
eleSion for twelve Directors for the enfuiitg year will be
:n d ß , held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
the o'clock.
rang- RICHARD WELLS, Calhier.
re li- Dec. 6., ?fl>T
led a Insurance Company of North-America.
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are desired
>Ilec " to take notice that the second Tuesday in January, (beirg
the 10th day of the month) is the day fixed by charter for
s ' allJ the.eleition oTtwenty-five Dire&ors for the ensuing year.-
1 The el«<ftion will be held at their office, and commence
at) 11 o'clock, *. M.
TbefubjeA if the bye-laws of the Corporation will be
Ifuimitted to their consideration at this meeting.
EBEKEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry
r.ac. U. «hivj,New Theatre.
THIS EVENING, January 7 ,
Will be presented, a celebrated COMEDY, written
by the author of the Dramatist, called
The Rage !
(As performing at Covent-Garden Theatre with the
grtateft apptaufe.)
Gingham, Mr. Wignett
Darnley, Mr. Moretan
Sir George Gauntlet, Mr. Fox.
Ken. Mr. Savage, Mr. Norwood
Sir Paul Perpetual, Mr. Warren
FI u fc, Mr. Francis
Keady, Mr. Worrell
\\ aiter, Mr. Barley, j«n,
Wizard, Mr. Blijett
' >' <■ -S, Mr. A.organ
y* ' n » Mr. Warre/l, jun.
Groom. Mitier'Warrell
I-dy Sarah Savage, Mrs. Oldmixon
Clarah Sedley, Miss L'FJlrange
Mrs. Darnley, Mrs. Morris
After which will be performed bv the French Compa
ny, a celebrated COMIC OPERA, called
4 Blaize et Babet.
(Themulicby M. Gretry.) '
Le Seigneur, M. Viellard
B'aize, M. St Mart
Mathurin, nn Amateur
Jacquiere, M. Bouchonj.
Delorme, M. Poignasd
I.cjiz, jlf. La-veney
Fayfana, MeJTrs. J. Worrell, Morgan, Mat
donald, T. Warrcll, Ac.
Eabet > Mile Terfeir,
£ lie > * Mile. Sophie
• Payfans, Mrs. Mecktlcr, Miss OUfield, Miss
-*'rtde>fen, Mrs. Dodor, Miss
L'Efl range,. Miss Milbourne.
gT On Monday, by particular desire, the Comedv
£ the CHILD OF NATURE, with LOCK AND
KEY, and other entertainments.
*
0" Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar
-Ano Gallery, half a dollar.
£5 Tickets to be had at H & P. Rice's Sook-ftore,
The Hlgh ' lUeet ' aad " the office adjoining the
T he Doors of the Theatre will open at j, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
P'aces for the Boxes to tie taken at the Office in the
front If the theatre, from 10 till i o'clock, and from '
lot ■. 4on the days of performance. 1
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their 1
-fervams t«> keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and 1
to order them, as f .on as the company are seated, to 1
v ithdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit- ,
ted to remain. r
VIFAT RES PUB LICA! '
. College-Hall. f
Readings and Recitations, j
A. oral, Critical, and Entertaining.
MR. FENNELL |
Refpeilf'jlly informs the Public, that '
THIS EVENING, Saturday, January 7,at 7 o'clock; r
Will be delivered, v
(Firsr fart)
PREFATORY OBSERVATIONS, a
including feleftions f rom Dr. Young— on e
« Man, Cl
Litk. ft
Procrastination. tl
(R'petiei)
rr-r ■ (* E CON D PART) CI
The Miferrtj of Human Life, Tkompfon h
The Beggars Petition, . Dr. Perc.val fc
n^flTH y T ma "' Goldsmith c
DomtfUc Happmefs, Thompson °
„ . f™'RD PART) f.
04e on St. Cecilia's Day, p._. 11
Alexander's Feast, Dryden bt
— 7 th
On Tuesday next will be delivered, fcleaions <h
from the tragedies of Othello and the Avenge, with w,
a. critical mveftigation and conapsrifen of their refpec- va
tive merits. 1
Sibfcriptions are received by Mr.Zachariah Poulfon, , ~
ih , 1 Lihrary, where the Ladies and Gentlemen 71
* h: ' a >' he »>c'>ned to honor the undertaking with ,n f
their patronage, are refpeflfully requested to fend
their names and receive their tickets. Sn
i' a K dmiffion tick " s tobe hati of Mr " ore
Jun. at the Library ; atmr M'Elwee's lookingW.-ftore « I
South Founh-ilreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Book- j '
fcder, Market-street— Half a dollar each. dlt
To the Public. fer ,
col
"T-HE Exhibition of Elegant Prints of the Revofu
x tion of France, and Generals Buonaparte, Piche
grue &c opened some days past, at the fouth-eaP cor- ' nC
ner of High and 1 hird llreets, formerly Cook's house, wei
having given general fatisfaflion to all those who have rai l
rV t^™P" e,or tlkes the ,ibcr, y informing deb
the Publ.cthat he has added to the fame, a large and Sta
beaut..ul Plan of Pans (the newest extant) containing con
a complete v ,ew of the city itfelf, its suburbs environs, f„.
-villages, houfM, heights, woods, vineyards, lands, „
nleadows, &c geometrically ,drawn, by Mr. RoulTel, ®
chief of the Engineers ; real locks of the hair of the , 1
late Q"«»fof France, Madame, and the Dauphin, lhe
may alio beTeen. In confequenee of the House beinr acct
l°nd' h e r / Ve r ,ime ,e ethib!t,the Prints® whi;
and, by the advice of his friends, he mean, to open e- Stal
vecy day in the week,, from 9 'till dusk. J
Admiflion, one quarter of a Dollar. .
January $ » thii
• ___£l fettl
Wanted on hire, K r «
A Cook, male or female—alfo a man fervaaf to at
tend in a private family and perform the duties b»- fa 7
longing to the dining room. None need apply who
tcl not underftandaiidhave not beeaacctiftomed tothe and
j.'Z, K "'"" °<■'tl..
' 70 taw2w
■ ' accoi
1 Bank of the United States, ,cm F
January 2nd, 1707. "PJ" 1
The DireOor. have this day declared a Dividend of & '°'
Sixteen Debars on each Share for the lafl fix month? vvfrf
V hich will be paid to the Stockholm after the Jath' New.
' n " 4nt ' G SIMPSON, Caftisr. iin mi
CONGRESS OP the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
ritten
Friday, December 30.
Debate on the report of the committte of ways
and means, on the un fettled balances due from
h the individual dates to the United States.
[Cominued.j
Mr. W. Smith said he could not agree to the
propofiiinn of the gentleman from Virginia, tho'
eventually the means recommended might be proper.
The fubjeft before them, he said, was a very deli
cate lubjeii, and ought to he treated with every
degree of candor. He was glad that the gentle
man from New-York had spoke upon the fubjeft
with a degree of moderation which did him credit.
The difculiion was an unpleasant one, and could
»> scarcely fail to excite a degree of irritation in the
house, which, however, it would be desirable to
' as mpch as poflible. For many years, Mr.
f S. fubjedt had {)een undi-r confideratioj,
and it was much to be desired, that it could now
mpt. rol, g hta close. He knew no better mode
of dbing this thin the one propnfed, vis. thSt the
debtor Hates fliould be informed of the Aims with
which they flood charged, and that payment should
1 be requested in such a way as fliould prove moll
agreeable to them.
Mr. S. said he should not follow the gentleman
from New-York (Mr. Willi.ms) through the
whole of his observations, because he did not think
them iflauve to the fubjea before them. Seme
of them roigUt have been properly enough fuauett
*'• ed when the fuhjeft of balancing the accounts was
before the hoofe fce believed, indeed, they were
brought forward at that time. He would mention
mrs ome / atls rtla " ve to the business, with nhich per-
Miss , p * me g ent lemen might not be.aoquainted. In
the year 179®, it seemed to be the general with
that an adjuflment of debts and credits betwixt
edy th* general government and individual Hates with
ND refpeft.tothe late wai, n lo uld take place; that
balancer should -be struck, and those dates which
liar W f' e fero "£ ht debtors Ihould pay, and those
who were found to be creditors should receive what
Dre, *y as '"•ported to be just ; and, in order to facilitate 1
the the business, a great deal of compromise took 1
place, lo that it was at length agreed upon with a 1
the good deal of unanimity. In order to give the 1
the ™ °PH ortuni, y of bringing forward all their 1
om c.aims, the commissioners were inverted with chan <
eery powers. After the business had gone through 1
leir the committee of the whole, the was only one 1
md question which occasioned any difaiflion, and upon '
to this the yeas and rays were taken ; this was the 1
ratio by which the states should be chawed. On a 4
I motion toftiike out this ratio, it was loft, to r
10 ; and what was remarkable, one half of ihe "
reprefents'ives from the state of 'New-York voted 1
for the existing mode, andthe other half for ft ik v
ing it out. [Mr. S. here read an extrefl f rom the a
journals.] It did not at that time strike the mem: "
bej;s from that date, that the ratio adopted would
injuie them. Whether subsequent events had made 8
it unfavorable to' them or not, was not now the c
question, but whether those states which had been {{
kj reported debtors should be called upon to pay what ''
was due from them. it
Mr. S. said this business might be compared to n
an arbitration betwixt individuals, where full pow- "
ers were given to the arbitrators; for after all that
could be said about the exertions of individual
states, was brought forward, it was agreed to put 8
the matter into the hands of three' commiiSonets ll
to make an award. The award was made and ac- c:
cepted by Congrefi. Whatever obieftioßs were li
>n held against it, should have been made at that time cc
th e l /' e awar( * bad been carried into effed. Any K 1
in c ° n, P' aint4 n,w brought forward against the princi- nf
p . es , ind ™ ode of 'rt'lement, were certainly ill tfl
>e r y quefl'on now was, which is the Ta
n best way of completing the business ? He though' va
the mode proposed was the best. It appeared, by
lf the report of the committee, that the following M
h were the debtor states, viz. New-York, Pennfy*
:- vania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia and North- N
Carolina. The whole debt was 3,5 17,584 dollars, fr <
of which 2,740,000 was owinjr by- New-York
' The interest of the debt, viz. 844,218 dollars be- ,h '
, "ig added, made the whole 4,361,802 dollais.
I _ OIIr P re f«t embarrafled fituatioß, said Mr. ce!
Smith, this money would be very acceptable. In 'X
, | order to meet the demands of the public creditors, th;
II » was well known that recourse mud It had to ad- brt
ditional revenue. It would, therefore, be very de- P ai
Arable if the debts could be collected, as it would Co
serve to lessen that sum which must otherwise be Sti
colleftcd from the people. Orthis money J he said, cre
might be ufefullly employed in providing for the Yo
• defence of the country, cither by means of a navy, ,he
increase of arsenals, or otherwile. Indeed, there ma
were many beneficial objefls to which the money f,t)l
might be applied ; and he doubted not, when the onr
debtor da es knew the situation of the United tor!
States, those who were able to pay, at loft, would ,va(
come forward cheerfully, and pay the Aims due on
from them, in such a way as should be mod ag'ree. U "
able to themselves. gin;
Mr. Smith said, he should suppose, that even
the debtor states themselves would vrifh to have tbefe l,ou
accounts fettled, as it must be unpleasant to them
whi;n claims were made from them upon the United war
Mates, to be told they were in debt to the union. mt " n
He remembered an instance in the last frfDon, where afidl
this was the cafe with refpe& to New-York. Tile Mr
fettlemcnt ,now desired, would do away such difa- b , ut 1
greeabls insinuation, in future. As to the date of „, C ™
New- York, he should be the last person who would
ay any thing that would be disagreeable to that prod
I -ale, as it was a state of confequenee in the union, have
and entitled to every degree of refpe& ; but gen- P ro P
tlemen mull know that the finances of that state tr "?-
were in a mod flourifhing cohdirion ; that tLey had
abundance of wealth. [Mr. S. here enumerated an
account of their riches, J When, he said, they con- £
tempi.,ed the situation of o'her states, with debt. Mi
upon their fhouldeis, to pay the intered of which, the c,
& for the support of their civil establishment, they its bt
were obliged to tax their citizens, he did not think
New-York would fuffcr much by paying the debt notd ,'
>" question. The state of S. Carolina, be said was
■53? -it present cor.fideratsly in debt. for the payment of
the interest of which,'and their civil lift, they were
obliged to have recourse to tlireft taxation on their
land> wlulll the state of New-York had no taxes
at "all,' though he understood the legislature had re
commended a tax to be laid, in order to accustom
ways people to the payment of a tax.
from Ihe only Mr. S. said, was whether
any material injury could arise from the application
proposed to be made to the debtor dates for pny
) the ment. If they had any well founded obje&ions
tho' to thepajmeHt »f the refpeftive balances, they
eper. would of coarse make them ; if not, they would
deli- dsubtlefs propose some mode of payment. But,
every Mr. S. said, if it was the opinion of the house,
:ntle- 'hat these debts ought at once to be cancelled, let
bjeft j l be dsnc. Something ought to be concluded on,
edit. order ro put an en"d to so unpleasant a business.
:oa!d Mr. Harper said it was very easy to fee hy the
the turn of the present debate, that no very amicable
e to or fortunate iflue would rcfult from the demand
Mr. 'hey war e about to make, upon New-York. He
tio», nßt believe that state would be prevailed with
now to P a y the demand in question, and he did not
node of any mears of coercing them to pay. He
; the always oppsfed to threats, when he was not n.
with hie to ftn'ke, or to make a demand which he could
ould "at enforce. He had no doubt-that the settlement
molt wasjuft and, and that that state was realty in
debted in the sum ipecified ; but if they disputed
man the d</bt and the mode of settlement, they could
the n . ot force them to pay it. From these coafrdera
link t ' on8 > it was his opinion they ought not to make
erne 'he demand at present. He would not cancel the
, e ft. debt, as, at lome future period, they might go in
was '? "ffociation on the fubjefit. He wilhed to get
vac rid of the business without a deeffion. He (hould
tion therefore move that the committee rife, and he
per- w " ll,d afterwards move, that it be discharged from
in a fo r ther consideration on the fubjeft.
vith Mr. Con hoped the committee would not rife,
vixt rtle gentleman from S. Carolina seemed to think '
n,h that a period might arrive when it would be pfoper 1
hat to negotiate on'the fubjeft, but not at present. If '
lich 'he gentltman had stated any reason why he thought
, B f e any future period would be more propir than the •
hat p'efent for a settlement of I the business, perhaps he 1
are m, £ flt have concurred with him in opinion • but '
}o fc not having stated any, he was opposed to having f
, a the business joflponed. The pn.pofitian, Mr. C. j C
r j, e said, went bo farther than to ask the several deb'or a
>eir " a,^ s » w h«her they would pay ; and, until this :
an . quell ion was put, they did not kuow bui they were i "
igh ready and willing to pay He did not think this j £
>ne was the time to conlider what measures (hould be I ,
ion ta Ken provided the (fates did not pay. It ought I r
the not '° he supposed they would refufe to do what ■ ,
n a was just. A number of the debtor states indeed ! f
to mi nnt be considered as creditor states, (luce the mo- • ■
,he ni T 'hey owed, did not amount to so much as "
f( j their share of the whole debt would be, provided it !•'
was not paid [Mr. C here compared the fpecific !'
h e I amount of the debts of different states with their I
m- f ,are 'he debt, to (hew that it would be their **
lid "'tereft that the balances (hstild be paid 1 The "
de gentleman from New-York (Mr. Williams) as was Z
h e I common with perfqns over zealoiit, had leaped be- ,
en fore he came to the stile. The question wn, not
iat how the balances (hould be fettled ; that fettle- U
ment had been wade, and the payment of them was , W
to now fh c question. He hoped the committee would
not rife. p;
at ■ Mr. Williams said he did not expect to have l''
la) J heard the obfervatioss which had fallen from the ,
ut I gentleman ' a ft up j for his part, he was persuaded ,
„ the representatives of the debtor states could make ,
c . calculations for themfrlveg • but he hoped calcula- y
re lions with them was nat the object ; the justice and "
„ t equity of the measure would he trusted be their 1W
'y the gentleman from Con
; nefticut to enquire whether fomc states had not paid
ill I 'he"" ipecie requisitions at about one third of their
le . value, whilst New York furniflied them at tbe full
I value. cu
y ~ ln ,?'' f4Ve ' to ,he gentleman from South Carolina f "
g Air. W. observed, that he was fenfitSfe aid was wan. .
M Bl v but he 1,0 P cd that hecaufe y
New-Wk had funds, they were not to be taken V
, I from them right or wrong. The gentleman was
, however m.ftaken {. faying there were no taxes in ""
. that state. If he would examine the laws of New- .
York, he would find the Wty and town expen- °, U
. ces were raised by ,»x arrd 45000 dollars annual- ° bi
„ ly bef.de,. Mr. W. said, he had flattered himfeif T
, ,hat 'he gentleman from Carolina would net have
- br ?''ght fsrward this fubjeft, as that state had been !
. paid for the frigate ouilt there unauthorized bv
1 Congress, which had been of no use to the United
. States, and the allowing that charge made ihem a '
, " ed l " or "ate. With refpeiSt to the funds of New
. York, he hoped they would remain with tVm as
, the fruit of industry and frugality. .The gentle- P , U;
. man had observed that one half of the delation
from New-York had voted for the rule of auporti. th "
. onment, that the conmniffioners aded as arbitra- C °"
tors, and that the award was accepted. Mr. W aS
was of opinion the aft and proceedings had there
on, was unauthorized by the confticution of the M '
I United States, as it was a departure from the ori Wtr
ginal contrafi, and that the state of New York pay
had never accepted of the award, and was not dcbl
bound thereby ; and notwithHwiding the gentle W "'
man asserted that the state ought not to Came for mlll
ward now and fay we will not afride by the fettle- aC !°
ment, Mr. W. believed many awards had been set J*""'
aside, and that this to be entirely done ,w» fol,r
Mr. Craik said he (hould not have risen on this td
but for an observation which hJd fallen from the eeo' in E 1
tlcman from Conneaicnt. He (hould be for the corn- "ific
mittee s nfuig and agamft their having leave to fit a- and
gam, hecaufe he did not know that any good could be and «
prodiced by the proposed application ; but it migfct H
have a contrary effect, and he did not think this was a .1
proper time to make uneasiness in any part of the cmin
I tqr. Nothing; he said, would be gained by th, meaf- m 'K !:
I v l'\ and wh >' ftould they expose their weakness and in
; ability to carry their demand. intoeffedW He hoped adde.
they (hould not, and that the committee would be dif- prop
charged from a father consideration of the fubi '<3 1,1
Mr. Dearborn, said, he had no great obietfinn m • i" 1
the committe; 1 if.ng ; but a Very ftrone oUedJion to
its being refulcn leave to fit again. The fubjea be
rorr them, he said, required full inveftieation H* <11.1 fo fct
not doubt but the state of New-York aad other states Ml
would aft like individuals in limilar fituatious, viz 'hew
honeftlyafldfairly. What had been said «),<,»< r | K ' char,.
Nt of mo:!e of fet'lemont iad nothinp o-to with :h; ires
were eiK question. The referees hau iettied -lie bbfinef. ac
their corikigto mutual agreement j they had heard the
taxes P a ' ties ' ma(,e the award, and execution was about :o
° | issue. But at this time, one of thefc parties came for
-1 re " ward and obje&ed to the mode oflettlement. What
i.tom he asked, would be thought of an individual who (ho'uld
so ad ?He believed but very indifferently. Taking it
ether for granted that the ft ate of New-York-would aril |,v e
stion an »P ri ght individual in the fame eircumftances, he
liad great hopes frem the proposed application Nor
tions Could he trer co,lfent [0 ,ax his conftituems until some
mode was taken tecolled these debts, as he thought^
th 7 them jull. Indeed he conceived it to be a refi.itio*
ould on the debtor states ttf doubt 011 this fubjeift ; and to
But, fuppofetfie application wouldeccafion urreafinefs and
aufe, difcentent, was to impute unworthy condud to those
> ] et states. He believed they would adl as thty ought, and
lon tb ? mone y wab 1101 immediately paid, some compro
tf. ' mife wou!d take P llce - i But, he said, it was not ret*
' • fonabie to suppose, that the people of Massachusetts,
'1 whilst 1,i50,000 were due to thein on this fettlcment'
able would consent to be taxed to pay their (hare of the
land debt, whilst other states were debtors, and were not
He called upon to pay the money which ihey had received
•vith But °f the Treatury. If the committee rose, therefore*
not be 't would have leave to fit again.
He Gilbert w - s 1° favour st the committee'*
3tn. r ' fi . ng ' He WBS fur p rift " d to hear gentlemen
suld ° b jf a to a " ® 3tam ' nat,on of the principle upon
lent "'"ich the accounts in queftisn were feitied. He
in- thought no man could confcientiotifly fay the let
ited tlcfi,cnt W3 » a fa''"one' when he saw the date of
ju]J New-Yoik charged with a greater balance than all
rra _ the other Rate- put together. And fco.uld it be
„^ e supposed that New-York" would pay this ?It could
the not be ex )» eiaerf * But gentlemen the quefti
in- wa ' " or nnw ll(, \ v ( he settlement was made.
What J Mr. G. exclaimed, was there never a jud'r
mcnt reversed, or an arbitration (et alide ? Gentle*
h£ men would not fay so. But w>.ere, he asked, wa»
the evidence of its being an award ? Where wer«
the remissions of all the parties ? Yet if these
ife. 7 f ' e P roduce<l > egregious millakes, or unfair con
ink Would he fuffi ient to set it aside He ho
per P £ d ' £ WaS tbc " a ' atc '" >ur committee would
life and have leave to fit again.
»ht r " hoped the committee would rife
the ?",? baVi ' eavf ,0 a !! 8 order-that the fub
hs }<* ™'ght be fully difciiffd He said he had much
Jut T"" m ° re ,lia,l fllc 'hen late hour would
. permit him to enter upon. He w»uld jtili menti
£ | on that lie (hould object to the nature of the law 1
to * : and the mode of i » execution. H<T believed 'the
his ! government of the United Slates had no ,i>iuto
ere i"" deman «! upon the (late of New York, ex- '
h . # cept it had given it. full coniem, by it. re'preK
he I , Cf ; tatIVC V but h 7 means of it. leg.fUure : for he
rl . t | did nqt know of any authority which the leprc
iat ! ' c '' tat,v « of any state had to bind that Jlatc 1., pay
•ed ! r r K'° Und wuuld he, that if the bu
-10. t . e w . as oon fi'crcd a. an arbitration, the tiuht
a, « rtal « c »f«. to set aside the award. Were the/
lit r ° t " ld ' Ja,d M '" L - 'hat it was the iritereH of
sic some of the debtor Hate, that these balances IhouM
cir i pa ' and ' w ", ,, l !l5 famt hreath, that it was no
eir n,a, te r whether the (mlemem was fairly made or
he not " Hc 1105 expert to luve heaid Inch ici:ti
a( men,. Apply the cafe, said he, ,0 individual,. '
Was the award ,n all cases of arbitration iina l »
Were not the party si di Bg ;, M f agricve.l a, [,> my
|e _ to make an appeal ? Yet the date of K T cw Yo.lc
aj was bound to pay, whether the accounts were fair
w yer unfairly fettled. A gentleman had taken the
paiisto prove that tt would be an advantage ail
ve hc deb ' or ' X 'W New-York, that the ha
:ie ," Ce ® aioU,d be P^ ,d - Doubtless, fail Mr. L.
. d he advantage would he great, if fifteen states could
te ? W . ,be,r . d 1 cl " l, p° n °' ie ; hn; could :h«y just.
a - y fl 'HV tvcd " 0t - HcHid "Ot metn to
|d refleA con.miffioner,,l }ut he believed hat
ir 'o an imtaenfe .moon, such a,
n _ would not have been allowed in afty CMflrf of juiiice,
[d Zl r* b> ' Credito ' -hah had
ir them .rector, .uftead of debtors. H W
,j ed, therefore, a s the waiter had not had a | u |] d,f. .
fit agai'n emmttce would and have leave to
/, ,he rp " k,r ' said ,hst he fliould
V Ymk r' C '° tht <".« N.'
n York, ,f they l.ad contested themselves wi h de
clarijg that they were unwilling to pay t |, e IT
n nited State; the debt which upon a fettlem nt of
- ' he accou the Aa.es had been awarded to b.
" r Hf (h<,t,id he said, haw
observed the fame line.of conduct, if these gentle
»en had gone no further than to 'el! thehonfr a „rl
' the w»rld that thev were nVf, A ,I „ e a " d
e « l '-'ey wete rich, and to boast that
1 Km T e " T re P / J M rou » than their neighbors
I r.rsfii
his own part he could net paffivclr nermir •
pu'.atiou to pass unnoticed. That the T, t'T
; those gentlemen f. h 9pp i ly Uc
' thier, far wealthier than his own h
contest 0, deny, but he would ad!^,"',! 0 ' '*
was afcribable, as had been said ,t • V ',£
indudry. The treafurv of New LI
Mr. D. said, an oJ^V
were annually taxed to fuppoft their
pay the i.terelt and part Jf the min l .°
debts. If ,hev were V P»ncipal of their
were fj,)' 1 " o ''
"fted their reputation cf good faifh Hv "77
acknowledge their just debr«: rc %^- to
..ti,-. g „cr, ! >. di fc h i;r,f™' ,T(*;r d ,"*
fouices {hould enable them— -Vv v, j ' , rC "
to enrich the treasury of lit n^V
'"£ f'otn it. creditor. th cir :„ ? U w»''hold
crificed tothef s |f tp J/J r j ,a J^ d '. ." or <*-
and claims of those who had . tufted , 'l 6
a "d confided in their j«ffi cc " iClr abllu X
might probably have boa fled „fthl'
wealth, more especially if to fuel,
added another not more meritorious, , h „ Z „
propnating to thei, own cxclufi.e .fe 'L / f
valuable propeny ,he back e , crown lands fi;/J'übjeft. He tiop-'d they wou : d Hare leave ta fit
again and decide upon the refolutians that had
beta offered to them, for he lerioufly believed- if
ever they were to.call upon the debtor ilates to pay
wha» they owed to the Union, this was the proper
fea<"on for doing it. Every weeks delay, whilst it
feeraed to give new strength ta the unwillij.gnefs of
t itofe - .eg to discharge their balances, weakened
the ability of the general government to enforce
them.
£To be continued. J
Phtladelphia,
SATURDAY EVENING, JANUARY 7, 1797.
Chaiitt KfcRMONs will be preached To-Morrow
is Chrill's Church and St. Peter's, for thfe benefit of
tile Poor of their Congregations.
Married, on Thursday evening lasts by the Htv.
Mr. Green, Mr John H. Barnes, to MiTs Eliza
11akhtson, daughter of Mr. Benjamin Harbefon.
, fame evening, by the Right i<ev. Dr;
White Mr. William Williams, merchant, la>e
ly from Londou, to Miss Sally WinCfield, of
this city.
, on Saturday evening last, by the Rev. Dr.
Helmuth, Mr. Jamks Harris, printer, to Mils
Hannah Walker.
ADDRESS
Of the Haufe of Rcprefentativei of the State of
Pennsylvania,
To THE GorHRNOR.
To THOMAS MIFFLIN,
s Governor of the State of Pennsylvania.
SIR,
THE many important'fubje&s recommended by
you to the coufideration ot he legislature, will
command our mod serious attention.
In congratulating you on the prosperous situa
tion of our country, iu the enjoyment of peace,
and rapid ingreafe of population and rfeallh, the
feeling, which confiderationsfo grateful imprefc on
the mind, are dilturbed by the recollection, that
Ameiica is ere long to be deprived of the services
a pi'iiot, whose wife and ju'iciotts system oi
policy lias heretofore preserved us i.i tranquility and
liappinels. After a long and fplenid career in the
service of bis country, our beloved Pr.efideni will
fqun retire into the wa.k of private life ; and iu
expreffingour warm It willies, that his remaining
year® may be as happy as the preceding bate b.en
gloiious, we speak the unanimous of oui
grates*! country.
The circumUances attending the choice ot elec
tors of a President and Vice -President of the Uni
ted States, will naturally cab our attention to a
licral revision of the election laws, believing it to
be peculiarly necessary, that the legifLtive will on
the fu"bjett of elections, (hnuld be so . 1 :nr and ex
plicit, as to prevent the poffiiillity <us millaJte ot
nifconlli uttion, and to preclude tbe ncccffity of
executive dilciertaa.
It is a painful conliJeration, that the meaftireS
heretofore taken by the legiflattire to project tbe
lights of our citizeus 011 the .wrllcra frontiers, and
to give the necessary authoiit\ ta the laws in the
Wyoming dillrift, have not had the drfired effe&
—a controversy, which has so long diftu'bed the
peace »l the llatc, and which every d;ty becomes
more serious and alarming, mult claim a particular
caoflderation.
GEORGE LATIMER, speaker.
Philadelphia Dispensary.
January 2, I 797.
The annual meeting of the Contributors, for tVe
pnrpofe of ele&ing managers, .was held this day ;
When the following peifoni were duly chosen fui
the present year, viz.
William White
Henry Hill,
Samuel Pleafints
Lawrence Seckel
Henry Helmuth
Rebel t Blatkwcll
George Meade
George Fox
' Robert Smith
John Field
Godfrey Haga
Samuel P. Griffith
January 1797.
At a meeting of the Managers of the Dispensary
lield this day ; the following officers of the inltitu-
Uon were duly appointed for \he prefeut year, viz.
Attending Pbylicians and Sutgeous,
Doitor John Porter
Thomas C. James
James Woodhoufe
James Reynold*
•William Annan
Adam Sybeit.
£«iiful:ing Priylicisns and Surgeons,
Do&or William Shipper., jun.
Adam Kuhn
lieifj-amuf Ru(h
Thomas Parke
Treasurer—John Clifford
4 Apothecary—Ruffel Park. \
• _______
By this day's Mail.
BALTIMORE, January j.
The brig William, capt. M'Kinnon, arrived it An
napolis on Saturday last, from Malaga, last from Gib
raltar, which latter place (he left on the 3d Oil. A
bont the ift Oift.the Spanifb fleet of about 18 fail of
tlffc line and several frigates, pafle I him on their way
*p the Straits, between Malaga and Gibraltar. He
was told at Gibraltar, that the Britilh fleet, confining
•f 10 fail of the line, were Up the straits ; there was
enly one frigate lying at Gibraltar. He likewise mm
t:nns,tllat waj-was expected there between the Span
>th and I nglilh ; that a camp of io,oco Spanifli troops
was within gun (hot of that garrison, and within rtach
the harhor —and that the vessels J.yirg fhere\Jcept
thiir fails bent, reaHy to run out in cafe of an attack.
The Algerines, under colors of ether ttates, were cruiC- 1
' n ® U P ! Straits,|had captured one or two American
veflTels. Ihe Portugu-fe fleet being ftationedat Gib
raltar, there was no dinger to be apprehcnSed from
-African cruisers in that neighborhood Capt. M'Kiu
non was bro't too and examined between Malaga and
Gibraltar, by a French cruiser ; thei objea, they said,
wa» to stop and carry in all vessels bound to or from
Jontilh porst.
Capt. M'Kinnon has beefi on the coast ever since
vthe 20th November, and experienced very severe
weather, meft of his people being froft-bit. Saw a
iium )er ot velTcls on the coast, two or three of them
oifmafted and in distress, but could speak none, owing
to bad weather. Came up the bay in company with
a brig and fehooner, supposed from the Weft Indies.
January j.
A letter from a gentleman at Martinique to his
friend here, mentions, that the merchants there
were in great c<inl)ernation in consequence of the
approach of a peace between Francfe and Great-
Britain ; in which event, it was generally believed
that that island would be returned to the farmer
ptKver — That qiy goods were a mere drug, and
thnt.thofe who had them weie endeavoring topulh
theftt o!f as Ipcedily as poflible- Such an event, so
devoutly to be wished, may be nearer at hand than
mi ft of us are aware of, and Ihotild not be alto
gether held improbable, until we know what im
predion the la f l p*. itic overtures of Great-Britain
Have made on the Executive Directory.
It appears hy from Jamaica, that the
Molucca Idands in the Ealt Indies have been ta
ken by the British so Ccß
1 he inhabitants of Batavia were in much jeopar
dy, not from any attempt on the part of the British
but the natives in concert with a i.umerous bo
dy of the o her isles. To borrow a favorite French
phrase, they were " about to organise a holy in
iuriection, and, as D itch,had not more than
500 troops, y wouid probably extirpate the major
P art - (Jam. Paper.)
1 NEW-YORK, January i.
THE BRIG DEAN.
It has been a foitunate circutnllance th»t this
veflel was so season bjy difpatthrd sot the relief of
those vessels which have been, ana mull continue
diltrelfed on our coast by the present severity nf the
weather. The celerity with which this bulinefs was
effedted, oid mu,.h credit to the gentlemen who
had its direftioii. From Saturday evening, to the
following Monday, at iz o'clock, (when (he failed)
(he was completely manned and provided with the
several meansf.r the prop«fed relief. This a a of
tn.ma ity fi*(»m gentlemen underwriters deserves a
geuenl fuppori ; and a contribution to a fund for
nu extctifion of the proposed relief might he, with
ti ■ propriety, made by individuals, enabled by
ihen affluent o r comfortable situations, to insure to
themli Ives the high gratification which would arise
from their probably faying woithy and tifeful
citizens from severe distress, or total deftru&ion.
1o this Inter observation we conlcfs to have been
ed by ;>ur knowledge of a generous offer of a ci
tizen to the gentlemen who had the principal charge
1 fitting out the brig Dean, that, though not an
underwi iter, or immediately concerned in trade, he
would willingly contribute a sum from one l.und lc d
and fifty to two hundred and fifty dollars, for the
fibove benevolent purpose. We have only to add
our regret that we j are not permitted to mention
the name of this citizen.
The following important extrafl of a letter from a
refpttfable mercantile houle in Norwich ( Conncfli
cut) dated on Sunday last, January I, was politely
handed us last evening for insertion :
" 1 h« ship Hope arrivi d the dav before yefierday'a:
New-London in 36 days from Liverpool, particulars
by this veflel I have not yet leafrnt; themoft important
article is, the return of Lord Malmfburv si om Paris, as
he « ent, arid that all parties ate preparing to prosecute
the war with the utmost vigour.
Om Hamburgh Paper of Nov. 7, has Paris ar
ticles to the 26:h Od fix days later thi.fi any re
cei'ed I hey iclate chiefly to a decree of the
Council of 500, forbidding the importation or sale
of English goods, under the severest penalties
At this date, therefore, no profpeft «f adjußment
between those two powers could have been i>, view.
Under Milan dates of Oft 10, an e-xtra£ is
given of a vety threatenin.. letter from Gen. Bu
onapiite to tire Senate of Bologna, in conftquence
of the exptfled with the Pope, and the
dcfe&ion of several cities of Italy. We will give it
to-morrow.
The accountsfrom Generals Wurmfer and Bu
onaparte, down to the loth of Oft. state partial
fuccefles in the siege of Mtontua ; but nothing de
citive lias occurred. Reinforcements were said to
be on the way for the relief of Gen. Wurrfifer.
Mr. Iz lardi, the American consul is arrined in town,
from Cadiz. We have it from good authority that he
ffates, that two American vessels bound from that port
to Gibraltar had been taken by French ertiizers, tarri
ed back to Cadiz, and condemned, as American.pro
perty.
Tianflationi for the DAILY ADVERTISER,
from Hamburg Papers.
We this day give several articles of importance,
translated at length, in addition to our (ketch in
yesterday's Advertiser. Moreau's letter we yive
in full, with its date corrected. Other artfcles
refpefling the Aichduke Charles, Gen. Bour
nonville—the changed affairs of Italy of Hol
land, Sec. will be found under different heads
pud dates.
We have made every exertion to give as copious
tranflatioKS as possible ; hut ftvetal articles of
some importance, remain to claim our attention.
They will receive it.
Letter of general Moreau to the Directory, dated
head quarters at Frtburg, OS. 15
Citizen Direflors,
The eoutage of the army has gloriously extrica
ted them out of the critical pofi-.ion in which it
Hood. By the Black Forest we were surrounded
by tire enemy who hindered our passage through
ihe narrow p;ffes, when at the fame time the arch
duke Charles advanced with a part of his army,
threatening to deftioy th? bridges over the Rhine!
It was neccffjry at this jundurc, to open onrfelves
a way, by vigorous efforts, which the victory of
B.beiacti war not fufficient to tffeft.
About 2J.0G0 tafn, commanded by generals
Petrafch and Nauendorf, had taken the pofls by
Roth well, Viliiagen, Donaufcengeo ai)d Neuftadt,
W aldfliut, and even the Foicft. towns, were occu
pied by Aurtrian troops and armed peasants. From
this you foe that all our communications were clit
off. T his was the more disagreeable to us, as we
could not receive letters from France, nor receive
any from thence. I commenced to force a paflagc
through lUc 1 Forelt towns. A half brigade, ef;
corringthe ammunition wagganl and the wounded
and fickj effected this without milch difficulty
That part of the army which was not ne. eflary to
check the progress of general Latour, who having
recovered from his defeat by Biberach, did riot
ceale to pursue ua, inarched to Rothweil and Dit
tingen, and aftei several vig irou? battles, drove the
enemy frorft thence. We took here paitof his ar
tillery, and made 300 prisoners.
It remained now to force the narrow palfes in
the Black Forelt. The center of the army rnaik
ed out the line to attack the corps of the enemy
rtationed ill Hell Valley. This is a terrible defile
for the passage of an army, as this valley extends
f-veral miles between two deep mountains, hardly
fro in 8 to 10 fathoms diliance. bravery o?
the troops fnrmounted all obstacles. With loss of
a cannon and 100 prisoners, the enemy was beaten,
and on the 12th Oft. the center of the army took
p,ofitioft before Friburg. The division of the arch
had already advanced to Ail Breyfa. h, from
whence they drove our troops, and took go pri
soners, which we retook, together with those that
cfcorted I hem.
The right and left wings of the army who had
juried, and continued to check the geneials Latour,
Petrafch, and Naue»dorf, defiled on the 13'h, 14th
and 15th Oft. without the lead roll. All the equi
page and tianfports passed unmolested through the
fcorcft towns, coveted by the right wing of the ar
my. Thus, an army of which the enemy boasted he
would certainly make prisoners, now threatens him
with an attack, and returns to cover the frontiers, af
ter a marclji of looleagues without th« leaf! loss ; dur
ing which they took from th*enemy 18 pieces of can
non > pair of colours and Hrarly 7000 prisoners,
amongst which thrre are 80 officers.
I fend you this ttiori (ketch to alleviate your anx
iety ; but I owe it ti> the biave army which I have
the honour to command, to give a more fpecific de»
fcription of the many battles it fought ; to praifc
the patience and calm courage which they (hewed
under the grearelt difficulties ; the resignation with
which they bore the want of provisions in the hur
rid places which thoy palled. Every corps
ifed ltlclf, and the officeis did not cease to give
proofs of their talents and bravery. Several of them
in particular, «diJ gallant aftiprs, of which 1 thjnk
it my duty to give you more information.
MOREAU.
From the head-quarters of the Archduke Charles
at Mahlberg, O&ober 17,
The head-quarters of the Archduke Charles
have been temoved here since yellerday, with the
intention of advancing further into j.he Brifgaa ;
this morning he was joined by general Eatour,
with, his army. It is to be expeaed that the arch
duke will, a? the head of such an army attack ge
neral Moreau, who was yeflerday yet at Frybeurg,
tn force hi™ to a fprcdy retreat over the Rhirtf.
The constant bad .weajhei and inundation* have
greatly impeded our operations igainft Kehl, how
ever, a considerable onpi is before that fortrcls ti
keep it Mockadtd.
ROME, October 6.
His holiness the Pupe has sent a manifello to al'
the Catholic courts. wherein he acquaints there
with the negociations hitlierto carried 011 witi
France. The holy father exhorts all the Catholic
princes to join with in the defence of iheirreli
gion. He has at the fame time made public a de
claratioa to his subjeCts tending to the fame ; and
has made them know, har the execution of the
'ruee concluded with Franee is suspended, n'li some
oilier time. In coiifcquer.ce of that, troops are
sent toward* the frontiers, and the Ratues already
packed up to be lent to France, are to be unpack
d.
October 8.
"I he Papal Chamber has already made a Procla
mation i i 10 article! u> the fubjefts of the States
of the Church, in which directions are given how
to aft in cafe the French Ihuuld enter the Papal
dominions. All inhabitants (hall immediately take
lip arms when the frgnal is given from the fteepfes,
and take out of the place raoft in danger, all cat
tle, tire-arms, provilions, See. and tfien take a pod
the molt fit for defence, at the head of the armed
inhabitants, place themfelvcs, the niagiArates and
officers of the militia, who afterwards mult try to
join the trovps of his holiness to be commanded by
their officers. In all cities and plaees, . quantities
of j»munition is 10 beheld in readiness ; all ptovi
fions bought up for account of his holiness, who
will particularly reward such persons as may figna
liee thcmf.-lves. Even people that have been guil
ty of crimes (hall receive pardon if they partake in
the defence of the couutry.
The 8 secret articles of peace, presented by ths.
Freach commillaries to the Pope, but which the
latter rcjefted, contained, from the firft article un
til the ratification of peace with the Emperor and
King of Nflples, his holiness is to pay the French
republic 300,00® livres monthly. The Pope is to
cede to the republic the Dukedoms, Cartro, Ke
npiglient, Renevento and Paiuo Carva. The re
public is to remain in possession of the Dukedoms,
I*errata and Bologna, and shall difpofeof the fame
iu the common 'peace, until which time the Pope
leaves theurin possession of the republic. The ports
of hiß holrnefs'fhall be (hut for the of
war ; and in cafe French vessels of war (honld in such
ports be attacked or damaged by the enemy, the
Pope is to refund the damage- Not alone in-the
piefent, but in all fnture wars, the French repub
lic (hall have a right to put. garrilons in Civita
Vechia and Ancona.
1 MILAN, Oft. 1 t and 12.
We ate allured, that the humilities between the
Pape and the French republi« will shortly be com
menced.
According to a proclamation as general Buona
parte, the truce between the republic and the duke
of Modena is declared.ts be suspended.
All youag men above the age of. I 7 years, are
compelled to the military ftrvice, under a jreat pe
nalty.
i here was a bloody conflict between tome i«iabit
ants of Leghorn, who paid their devotion to an image
ot the holy Mafia, and the French. Several liven
were lull on the occasion.
It is said that the Republic of Venice intends to ac
cede to an alliance ceticlueed on the 30th Sept. between
the Pope and the tvi»g of Naples, and that the latter
u expedled at Korrte. ?
VIENNA, o<slober 19.
Siace the arrival of the French meflinger, several
couriers have been to the courts of London
and St. PeteriMirg.
RASTAIDT, O&obcr 12. i
[ Cod what it will, the lmperialids are determined
td take Kehl. The archduke Chailes will himfelf
the attack ; 'many volunteers have offered
themselves for this pUrpose, amongst which are fe
deral Huogat tan regiments. Batteries are already
ere&ed nigh Kehl, wherein heavy artillery and mor
tars are planted,
MANHEIM, Oflober 18.
T Ivo dtvifionS of the aimy of the Sainbre and
Meufe are o*n their march towards Lautern, in •r
---der, so as it is reported, to effect a division of the
Imperial forces and eltablilh a communication be
tween the above arniy and that of the Rhine and
Mofelle—Thelmpeiial troops Undsr the command
of generals Mont Frant and Schellenherg are on
their march towards Lautern, and will arrive there
to-morrow—lt appearß that the French Will op
pose the diverfi n to be made by general Hotatj
and the eperations of the garlifon at Mayence, by
fending a great number of troops towards the
Hundfruck.
PARIS, October 14.
li fecms that the queen of Portugal reflefis se
riously on the armaments of Spain as they may be
obnoxious to- her kingdom. She has, therefore;
as w«ll as the German and Italian little princes;
Ihewn a detire of peace; and itegociations to this
pUrpose will be commenced with her niiiiifter \vh«
arrived here.
A minister of the duke of l)eux Ponts arrived
here to conclude a separate peace for his matter.
The cammiflaries arrived here from the ffle of
Pranee, affute, that the colony is in the rtioft flou
rifhing Hate ; that the magaiines are full of goodi
taken froth the Englilh and Portugiiefe ; and that
the (lave trade is carried on as formerly.
1 he Sardinian por s are (hut for the Esglifti, our
government will infill that tke Venetian ports (hall
be (hut for them also. *
OiSober t6.
The Directory being yet uncertain whether a
peace with England dan be brought about; has in
timated to the Council of I'ive Hundred; that it
will be sdvifable to prepare to continue .the war
with redoubled forces—The fame has sent another
mefiage propufing to prohibit the importation of
Englifb goods in all, the ports of the republic.
Letters from l'Orient and Rochefort mention; that
five (hips of the line aud several frigates have failed
from both ports to join the fleet at Bred,
October io.
The Council of Five Hundred had yefierdajr 8
secret conference, in which the deputy Paftoret in
the name of the commit tee for the treaty of peace
with the king of Naples', made the report' of srtU
cles of pea. tf agreed on, whi h were afterwatdi ra»
tilird. The articles are briefly thife—
Ibe king of Xdpits engages to •withdraw Lit
troops cut ofthe places in the papa! domains. He obliges
him/elf to keep frr, mOrethxn a certain number of men .
of <wtir in comtfttjjlcn. He secures lis commercial ad
vantages. His ports /hill be Jbut for the F-ngli/h
until the end of the war. He -will give fatisfidicri
en account of the ittfults given to the Frcrtcl) ett-eoy in
1792.
WAGUE, O&ober it.
A letter of general Bournonville read the day
before yefierday in ouf national convention, indi
cates, that his rmy is again in a situation to ad
vance and to ait uffe 1 lively ; he ad;ls, that he in
tends to do it in order ti> afEft general Morean, an(J
to obltge the Imperial army to turn apait of it to
wards the army of the Sambre and Menfe.
In order Jo leflen dill m«re the discontents of out
merchants about the lad proclamation concerning
trade, permiflion has been given underhand, te per
rfiit the importation of ait goods (kipped in En
gland before the 27th September.
ARMY of ITALY.
Buonaparte General in Chief of the army of Itafy to
the Exec-olive Dire&ory.
Head.Quarters, at Milan, 17th Vendemaire,~Oift. 8.
One hundred and fifty men of the garrison of Man-'
tua had come om of the place on the Bth, at io o'tlock
in the morning, and had eroded the river Po, at Bogo
forto to procure forage. At five fc'clock In th? eve
ning, however we completed the blockade 6f Mantua,
and took po(Tefii«n of the gjtcs 01' Pradella and Cerefa,
as I had the Uonor of informing you in jny fad dil-'
patch. That detachment finding themselves by (hi*
means separated from Mantua, endeavored to retire to
wards Florence. They were ho sooner arrived at
Reggio, than the inhabitants Were apprized of their ap
proach, they ran to arms and prevented themfrom pas
ting, by which impediment they were compelled to re
tire into the (trong castle of Montfchrerogolo, in the
dominions ofthe dyke of Parma. The brave inhabi
tants of Reggio, pursued and afterwards farrounded
them, and forced them to surrender themselves pr'ifon
ers of,war by capitulation. In the firing of mufquetry
which took place, the national guards of Reggio have
bad two men killed. Thele are the fird who have
fIW their blood for the establishment of the liberty of
their country. ( Signed)
, BUONAPARTfi.
1 11 11
In order to comply <with contrasts, I <will fell, ftr
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Frederickfburg, beginning op
polite to the lower corner <jf Dodlor Weflford's, on
Caroline-dreet, and running up to the cross flreet
leading to Fifzhugh's ferry, and from > thence back to
Sophia-dreet. This square I have laid off into 44 lots,
27 and an half feet front, and in back, 12 on Caro-'
line-dreet, and 12 on Sophia-dreet. Nine of those
om Caroline-dreet I have leafed on an annual ground
rent of g aird 10 pound«, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a parchafer could enhance the value
of by building Email houses, which will a# readily
procure tenants as pots or goards vk-ill Martins in the
spring, and yield a greater profit in proportion to
their cod than large buildings. Thai"- who incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
HENRYF.ITZ.HUGH.
Beli-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. jthJ.d^wTHOMAS DOBS ON,
At the Stoue House, No. 41, South SccsndJlrcct,
Philadelphia,
HAS FOR SALE,
A large and very general aflbrtment of
S TAT lON ART.
Drawing and Writing Best and feoond Swan Quills
1 Papers. Black and red Ink Powder
Antiquarian Ditto Liquid Ink
Double iilcphant Penknives
Atlas, Desk knives
Elephant Superfine red and black Seal-
Imperial ing wax,
Super Royal Belt vermilion and coloured
Royal wafers
Medium, Large and small office wa-
Demy lers
Thick Post; folio Red tape broad, middling &
Thiij ditto narrow
Extra thin ditto Eladic gum, in bottles or
Thick Post Letter pieces
Ditto plain Pounce
Ditto gilt ivory pounce boxes
Ditto lined Cocoa and bone ditto
Thin Post Ivory paper-knive6
Ditto gilt Black sand
Mourning Sand boxes, japanned
Ditto plain, or lined Lignumvitae and common
Bank Post Gunner's scales
Small Post cap size Brass dividers ,
Best Englifli and American Leaden preffers
Foolscap, various qualities Black lead pencils
Superfine Pot sliding ditto
Second ditto Japanned card racks
Bloflom and grey Blotting Writing parchment
Paper Ditto veilum.
Wrapping paper Morocco writing delks
Letter files and laces Spanilh tambour ditto
Paper cases, various sizes ' An elegant variety of ebony
Bonnet pasteboards mk-ft:in;diftics
— Large, middling, and small
Merchants* Account Books pewter ink-ftandifhes
viz, Large, middling and small
ledgers, single or double ; counting-house ink-pots
ruled for 1. s. d. or dolls. An elegant aflbrtment of
& cents, of Imperial or Su- ehryftal and wedgewood
per Royal, with or with- philosophical ink pots
out crofe linos Ink-gUffes, various sizes
Journals, Day Books, In- Leather & paper ink-pieces
voice Books, Account cur- for the pocket
rent Books, Sales* Books, Smah gilt
Letter Books, and Record Blank melTagv-cards, large
Books, of Imperial, Su- and small, gilt and pain
per-royal, Royal, Medi-Boxes of marking-types for
um, Demy or Foolscap, linen.
cross ruled or plain. —
Receipt Books Bills of lading,large & small
Bank Books Bills of exchange
Memorandum Baoks Elegant copperplate ditto
Bill of Lading Books Cuit®m-houfe entries
Bill Books, payable and re- Manifefts
ceivable Sekmcn's articles
Bank-Check of vari- Blank bonds
ous sizes and for different Judgment bonds
banks Judgment bills
Cyphering and Copy Books Mortgages
Common place Books Arbitration bonds
— Apprentice's indenturss
Best Dutch Quiils, No. 1, a, Powers of attorney
i, 4 and 5 Bank checks, &c, &c. &c.
December 17. S6
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the ease and convenience of merchanu
in general ; but particularly for those who are ex
tensively concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
>iew, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the course of the whole year,
for.each month frparatively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
the mode now in use, of Telefting the bills due in
cach month from the promifcuuu3 entries ef several
months.
To which is prefixed,
A table shewing the number of days fraai any day
of any month, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
SELL 8c Co.
January 2. tawtf
Paterlon Lottery.
FORraifingGxthonfand fix hundred and fixty-fercn
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
ccnt from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
I Prize of 5000 dollawia dollars 5000
I 1000 iooc
t "> joo # 500
S »°o. loco
10 100 2000
09 So 49J10
400 jooo
*000 10 io,ooo
S Lad drawn numbers of .fooo dollars each, 5000
4334 Prizes. 44,450
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,4j0
By order of the Directors of the Society for establish
ing LHeful Manufactures, the fuperintendauts of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requeued the Managers to offer the
foregoing Sohcme to the public, and have dir.dted them
to refusd the money to those person? who have purchased
in the fornwr Lottery, or exchange the tickcts for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery hasa&ually commenced dfawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A. lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be fcenat the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
son th Second flreet, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796;
J. N- OUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, >• Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, }
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 ... 5000
I 1000 - lOOC
I 500 - 50c
5 200 - looc
10 ico - aOOO
90 50 4500
I«5 15 - - - - 4115
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 e<.ch, 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, belides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in the old scheme, that they can ex
change their tickets for those in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance considering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickete being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftener, and the Lottery soon finifj*.'d.
November 12. mws
Bank of North-America,
j J mutiry 2, 1797*
At a meeting of the Dire&ors this day, a Dividend ot
5ix r per Cent. was declared for the last half year, which
will be pail to the Stockholders or their roprefefltatives,
at any time after the 10th inllant.
By order of th 9 Board.
* dti6th JOHN NIXON, President
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Pbiladklphui,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, * l^ r g e aflbrtment of WARRANTED
WATCHES, esnfiftiiig of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecoeds, of superior
workmanlhip and elegance ; a!fo capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd icjewell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Witches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty ho»r, brass
works, &c.
Decembet 22, 1796. d2m
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very Urge and heavy debts are juftJy
due and o«'ing from meflrs. Blair M'Clenachan and 1
Patrick Miore, of the city of Philadelphl2, merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Clenachan and P...
Moore, and from Blair M'Clenachan in his feparatc
capaaity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it is clearly and fatisfarforily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Clenachan, of the said firm, lias conveyed
away to mr. John H. llujlon, his son-in-law, to his
daughter, miss M'Clenachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, fevtral large and valuable real estates,
as well as eonfiderable perfocal property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancai
ter, in the county of New-Caftie on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de- I
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarrt all peribns whoirifo
ever, against the purchase from the fiid grantees, or
either of them, of any portion of the said real orper
fonal property, as the most vigorous measures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the just demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitxftmons, "J
Philip Nickhn, /
Isaac i r barton, V Committee.
William M'Murtrie, I
Samuel W. Fijher, -J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. joth.J
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all perfonn agaiaft purchaling from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and personal estates fee couveyed away to
his fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upon the fubje£t by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well-os Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clsna
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust con fid in the fubfcribeis by
those creditors: a step which it would hava been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very statement of the fadt therefore must dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindidive." It originated in a defne to secure
the property-os the debtor as a sand for the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fan&ioned by the
advice of council as a measure nectjfary to the fatety
of the creditors. If vhe advertifemcnt has been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjuftiiiable conduit, not to the sub
scribers who have merely published the truth
terras as mild as the fadf would admit, and who
mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of th.)(e purchases of which Mr. M'Cle
naehan so confidently (peaks.
The fiibfcribers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
eaution against purohaling of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it te a
purchase frora any other persons (if such there be)
to whom Mr. M'Clenachan fnay have made similar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philad. Dee. 21, 1796.
(PS 1 " Thof£ printers who have been requefled to
publish <he ftrft£'AUTiON, are desired to publilh this
also.
Wafbington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the- State of Maryland has autherifed
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
two hundred, and fifty dollar®, for the phrpofe of cutting
a Canal through the City of Wafliington, froxi th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Harwour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Via: *1 Prize of ao,<?oo dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn ■)
Tickets, each (
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto 100 2,000
55 ditto 50 2,7j0
STSO ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Casal, 26,250
5850 Prises, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
ijßeo Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 1.75,000
Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<& for the punctual payment o
the priifs-
The Srawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timiel)
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demandedin fix months after ths
drawing is fmilhcd, IhallJje considered as relinquilhed for
the benefit ®f the Canal, and apprdpriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CAUROLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M. DUNC ANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wa!hipg.o;i, Feb. $
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Season,
And fad on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 12
ailes on the Bristol Road, where good ftabliiig is pro
viJsd, and great care will b« taken of them
William Bell.
Nov* 23. mwfawmthtf.
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from ioto 1 o'clock
on Mondays Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new ootillioas, he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note./ The frrft pra&ifisg ball to be on Turfdav e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued evrry
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N«.134, Market
ftreet.
0&. 17. tthf
A Manufa&ory FOR. SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and'CANDLE Manufa&ory, fttuate
in a convenient part of the city ; ihe works ahnoffc new,
on an entirely original conftiuttion, and built o? the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
whowiihto purchase, arc requested to appiy at No 273,
South Second Street. .September 13. t t f ti
Twenty Guineas Rewaid.
RAN AW AY from the fulfcriber on the 23d O&ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boot* much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accultomed te driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable chargcs paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eaflon, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 jimaawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortmcnt of every thing neceiTary
to be used forthe
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minora! Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in pqwder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
fwcetening the month and preserving the teeth —he
also fui niflies Drulhes and foft' Sponges.
* # * He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-flreet.
Nove<nbtr 26.
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelyhia;
The Subscription Room irilL.be furnilhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken afway on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes,' Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
| will at all times be procured at the bar.
i Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
thechoieeft of Wines, Spirituous Liquor®, and the mod
| approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and eariieft
productions of the Season.
■ Large and small Parties, op Angle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Sappers, at
; hours moll convenient to themielvcs—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency,, the Bill of Fare to be had
at th» bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely aad
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
| requiftte.
£5* Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
eref.ute the commands of his Friends, and'the Public at
j large; 'and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himleif that nothing on his part shall be wanting fro pre
fer ve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguilh
iagly iionored.
j Philadelphia. April 19. mvvf
Treaiury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that prapofals will be re
ceived at the bmce of the Secretary of the Treefury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diflri&s here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at
Paefque lfte; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandufky
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin, at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jdferfon; at Grdnville; at
Picquc Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place bslpw Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; -at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMalTac ; at any placc from Fort MaflTac
to the foutli boundary of the United States on the river
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies shall be required /or any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies shall be fur
niihed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
pcfts before 'recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be iupplied arc to confiit of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread »r flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of j
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of felt.
Two quarts ef Vinegar, I hundred rations
1 wo pounds of Soap, (
One pound of Candles. J
The rations are to ba fumifWl infnch quantities, as that
Acre fliall at all times during the said term, be JuiTioieot
forthe consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, Dc
' troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other posts, forthe term of
at lead three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provifior.s, if thefame fkall be required. It is to be un
derdo ;d, that the Contractor is to be at ihe expence and
1 ilk of ifluirgthe supplies to the troops at each poll, and
that all losses sustained by the depi odatious of a« euemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, shall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or wore persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certifisate of a commiflioncd officer, af
ccrtaising the circumftaiices of the loss, and the amount
of the ai tides for which eompenfation shall be cl.-imed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Seereaiy of tkt Trcafury.
Waflnagtou I ottery.
IICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be j>urch.u «l t
exchanged for prizes, at the Otfjce, Nr. j. 7, Ch '
C: rect, wht;re a cdrraft Numerical Book is ktpt for p*:
iufpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for fiie or la
clranged for prizes diawn in the Washington ujf
which the 50th and 5111 days returns are received.
£jf* Th« Bufiticfs of a Broker carried on am ufa?.!.
%* A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fv i
on reasonable terras. December 29. .ust>'
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth fired)
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Publit for-their liberal
and begs leave.to foiicit a continuance of their favors*
He has on hand a:: er.tenfive ailbrtment of the
Mojl Fafnionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, iuitabl; ibr' cht* ienlon.
At this Ihop Gentlemen caa be furriiihed t
materials, and have them made tip in the neatest and :iiV£
manner, aud on the ihorfeft notice. 11 w.-'l
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt uki
punctual attention. to them.
November 10. wg
r o BE SOLD,
A LEASE for fzt>en years, from the 2 $tb March next, ir. iijS
capital.and beautiful FARM J called
PRO S P E C T-H I h L,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the 3randyw?ne
Wills', and half a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
r V s HE dwelling House is built of (lone, two ftjrics h»g%
* genteel* fmifiieJ, and containsfour handsome m6ms on
a floor, befidss an.entry, witfycapit*! garrets, and cqnvavn - :
. cellars It is generally thought to command the moll -
greeable profpeft <>? the Delaware, from the loyce of thitf "
tivei to the Capes. t his profpeft ia giejlly
a full vicvv of a vast body of meadow, through which trj
Christiana and Brandvwine creaks are fern rinding in bea- -
titul meanders. Near the house are a Kiiche*>, a fpaeiou*
hone liable and hay loft, a barn, a carriage house, mUk
ft>yufe, &c. and a wyell of as pine water us'arty on the conti
nent. The garden contains a, 1 ar.r.c and quarter of land, ; -
bounding with fruir, and particularly with peach trees, of
ti.e very belt kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear,
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, *p«?)c
orchard to bear, and lovcral old trees that produce
abundantly, befidei cherry and other ornamental trees, ia
great numbers. The .farm coniiftfr of near sixty acres of
of good quality, and clcar of incumbrances, except taxes,
twenty of which are now in cxccilcnt clover and timochy,
and ten more will be ready lor (owing next spring. A it"
fidence ot nearly 8 yean has convinced the fubferiber tha:
the fit union is remarkably healthy, The great poll road
Irom Philadelphia to the Southward runs 'whin seven y
yards of the houte. In a word, the bea .ties and convert
ence of this fituotion cannot be errttmcrated in an adveitiie
ment, and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any person who is defuous of living at one of the
molt elegant com.try feats on the continent. The pure ha for
may enter ou the premif.s next spring, or perhaos, this' faui
it application be immediately made to D-.ftor NICHOLAS
WAY. in Philadelphia, to Doctor WH RTON, or. t! «
premises, in his ab!ence, to Mr. GEORGE TRUII T, ii»
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay* Grain in the ground, some
Stock, &c. may be had by the purchaser at the time of sale.
Nov. 7 eodtf
City cf Wathingtou.
scheme of, the Tottery, no.ii,
FCR THE IMFRUVE.MIST 0 t TMK
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) ao,ooo dollars, & J
■dwclling-houfo, ) 30,000, are ) 5°,000
l ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,00 cv
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,cr.0 & cash 5,000 io,oco
I cash prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 * ■ 10,000
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
31X1 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 '■» 20.000
15,000 do. 10 - *50,00©
16,7.19 Prizes.
33,261 Rlankt.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar,, 400,000
N. B. To favour thofc \vh9 may take a qnant •Cy of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but o.vt :
And approved notes, i'eenring payment in either tt'.onrr
or ;-rizes, in ten days alt.er drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery HI afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of AVafc.higt mi-
Two beautiful ilefigns ire already fclefled for ,t!:e citij'C
frontion two of the public lqtiares; fioni these prawings
it is proposed to ereel two centre and four corncr baildkgs,
as soon as pofiible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complc»c, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribcd in the fchemc fcr the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five par cent, will be made to diifray
ti-.e neceflary cxpenfes of printing, &c»,<and the fit-plus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Univerlity, to be erecled within tha city of Wafliiiyten.
The Drawing will commcncc as soon as the tickets r:re
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty da/»
after it is flniflied ; and any prizei for which fortunate
numbers.lie not produced within twelve months jiftsr thl
drawing is closed, are to be confideredas given towy-itd*
the funJ for the University ; it being determined to fjttlc
the whole business in a year from the ending of the dsa\y-,
ing, and to take.up the bonds given at security.
I'lic real securities given for the payment of fhePiizes
are held by the Prelident and two IlircAors of the 15an!»*
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the 3-,
mount of the lottery.
The twenty lour gentlemen who by appointment cS
the late ComJniffioners afiifled 111 the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requcftcd to undertake tliuarduous talk
a second tinve on bJialf of the public ; a faificieut rc —
L-er of these haVing kindly accepted, it is hop. d that i) «.
friends to a National University and the other f'»!eril o'j«
jeds may continue to favor the dtfign.
By accounts received from the different parts of t:;e
Continent' as well as from Eurt-pe, whyir® the ticLc>,
have been Unt fcr sale, the public arf- aiTured that th ,
drawing will fpoedily cotauncnae, and tha-. the car:a:*',
caation unavoidably necessary to isfure a lafc difpof.'. ;■}
ths ticket,, has rendered the fhor fufpeuiiou indifpenfativ,
S AMU XL IsLODCST.
*§« Tickets may be had at the Rank of Colsmliia ; cr
James Weft &Co. Baltimore; of Fetu Giimar., Bofi*.. ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard
Cooper's Ferry. eo
PRINTED BY JOHN FENK C,
—No. 119 —
, ' CHESNUT-STRFJT.
[Pricc Eight Dollars p,r .ißnum.]