$tttt of the plates, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmbrr 1373.] ' " WEDNESDAT EVENING, FEBRUA «r'■, 1707. Cllb .
SALE BT AUCTION. Ft
T
WILL b»Xol4tofhe highest bidder, on Thursday, Fe
bruary Til Mi'i In I), hi the -v.::iiay. at the mer
"chants' Coffee-Houfe, in Second
months* credit, foe approved note, with an
- The Orion Js-]lxteen months «ld, he r frame is #ft
Oak-.A« » a. buiti vcei, _
fom-'Y finilhed, and well found in every particular, is
ready to receive a cargo, and can be sent tal lea without Fii
any ' xpenie on her hull fails .r ripng. She stows fix ffo
hundred barrel., has a handsome cabin and ft ««g e - an ' i T ,
a haii deck which will flow feventy-five or eighty barrels. s;j
She is a fall-failing vessel, and has been n.wly caulked, , ;!
rraved? painted, and put in thorough repair m every re-
fpeft Her Inventory may befeeu by applying tomr ' " Sij
war 1. Smith, Ship-broker, No 86 south Front-street, or TJ
to the caotain, on board said schooner, !a y l "g °f{L°j Fi
meff Wills & V'ardley's wharf, adjoining Lhe^ut_ft^ t T«
v wharf —where she at any time may te thoroughly exam
ined by those who wilh to puichafe.
January 30 ' — 2—
' —| FOR SALE,
7 tIS SfilP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
S?-' vi ; ;«S^T W o hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. .
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, Ihe will tak T
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
OiSoher 31. P'
£r*EL F or Sli S° and KillibegS, ~f
The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, miller.
will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or pafuge 4p!y to I? „ "p
William Bell; ?
Who has for sale, ol
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted _ , f
3 Bales Irish Piannelo, and » boxes Linens tl
45 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Rnffia Matts. /
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796. mwftf
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA, j
(m;*ri. Samuel Pile, Mailer,'
Burthen 105 47*95 ' ens register, built in
Philadelphia in the year I79*> of live oak
•and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago, (he
has just had a cortipleat out-fit, -and may be sent to sea .
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin Iff Co. ,
Who have for sale on board said vejfci, 1
' tl calks of fine yellow paint. I
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates. . 1
1 box vnk (lands and note prefies.
» 14 bales of fail rinvaft,. — ——
And on hand,
Imperial
Hyson, and, r TEAS.
Souchong )
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the fir (I quality.
19 tubs Quickfilyer.
1 chelU Bandanan handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goodswell assorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Mliflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black fewingfilk.
IHO crats* Qneens ware well afiorted.
10 tons sheet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
>,Lrmdon Market, f and hogsheads.
v Market, j
40 pipes and 10 hogsheads Tenenfle wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
330 logs Mahogany.
-J„v 1. tth&flf
A C A V R IX
If Monfteur G. R. S6tii.e,
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June lafl, and arrived
at Boston a.bout the middle of Atignil, 111 the fenbsner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he it requested to cali~»m
Jo r cph Anthony & Co. No. J, Chefnut-llreet, who
"te term- aiiToflfH(ron~uf murortsncr
December 24, 1796. §
6A L 1 FII T RL
A large quantity of Double. Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 15, Soutli Third-fireet.
November 5.
Washington Ganal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifad
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through th ' City of Waihington, Iron th Po
tomacto theEafter:, Branch Harooar.
Tljc following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -i Prize of 10,000 dollars, »0,000
i t ditto 10,000, 10,000
*2£2r}'*>»
6 ,ditto 1,000 6,000
To ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto _ ' s° »,7J®
5750 ditto l» 69,008
To be raised for th« Canal, 36,156
5850 Prizes, ijsfioo
11650 Blanks, not two t» a prise.
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
0' The Comp\iflioners have taken the Securities re
tjuired by the aforefaid a(ft for the punilual payment oi
the prizes.
The .drawing »f this Lottery will commence, withoin
delay, as loon as. thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finiJhed, stall be confidefd as relinquiihed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL,o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARKY.
C->t «f Waihingxoxl, Feb. 11. 5
, Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds, 1
Roots, &c. &c.
This day landing from the Ihip Eagle, captain Fofdick, j
from London, (ixt<
And FOR SALE by
! GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE, wi
Corner of Walnut aad i
d mojl capital and sxtenfi've of I J
u;,d I. __
' j Five kinds Afparagusf Thres kinds Crefles J
1 Four Berecole Twelve Oiu>n I
Twenty-five Beansj Thirteen RadiOl L
Six ' Beets' Fifteen Turnip I
' j F.levea Brqcolil Fifteea - Peas JJj]
1 Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
" Six Carriit Four Parliiip
r I Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon \YJ
j Five Celery, Twenty-one Lettucc I
Ten Cucumber;
Common and lemon Thym» j §
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley I p lt ,
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum I j
Balm Thyme Mangel W-urteel | j
Leek Kail Shallots j ■]
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne [' j
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c. J j
With a curious collection of the most efteemcd 1 j
» FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS, s
Being the mod extensive ever imported into this city, j I
; The above are from a eapital Seedsman In London, and | 1
are warranted freih and good. I J
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above. I ]
Dec. T-> j §
The Stockholders of the Pennfyivania _
Population Company
or Are requested to meet at the Company's Office, No. j
?3, North Fourth-street, on Wednel'day, the ifl of I
February next, at 12 o'clock, for the purpose of taking
into consideration the proceedings of the Company, and Fr
of making further affeflrnents on the (hares, in order j ia
to defray the expences of the Company agreeable to
the 20th, Article of the Constitution.
By »rder of the Board.
SOLOMON MARACHE, Secretary.
January, 13d, 1797- dtfeb.i. 111.
Women's Cloaks. J h a
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-llrest, !
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Ftrfdick, via Lon- i
don, an assortment of '
Sc.irlet ") • IT?
in Drab (Cloaks trimmed with iur and I r
,ak Purple and f ermine.
(he P" rl J c 0(
s ea December 15. > I
French China.
THE finding it impoflibleto supply their ha
(lore with any rfiore China from France, the prices at
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no- I d(
tic.e that they will fell at prime cost the remaining j A
. (lock on hand, consisting of
DefTert Setts, 1 j'
Ssm_ L ■
Separate Cups aha Saucers I
Groupes and Figures j
Alabailer Vases
Looking Glaßes, in gilt frames, j
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tables |
nad QHadrille Boxes. PASQUIER & Co- I
No. 91, South Second-street. I
. „ Decesnher ?t>h. "In
-or- , • 11 - - ■ I
&C. • <c> notice.
I 1<
r ~I" , HE Sales of LANDS of the United States, 111 the 1 J'
1 North-Wellern Territory, heretofore advertised j
in the several pulilic pipers, will commence this even
-0e« ing, at the City Tavern to bs. continued frost* day I
t j day, 'till the tenth of February nexS, if not lboner t]
fold. " j
January 4 $ a
Public Notice,
I® HEREBY GIVEN,- that 1 have applied to the 51
~ judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to supply the £
dete-3. in my Title to a lot of ground, iituate oil the Weft
fide «f Foarth-lhcst, containing 20 feet, and 1
,j vetl in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Weftwaid,.by
siier K roUßi ' c l' c fubfariber, Southward by ground of Edward j ®
il on Shippen, and Eaflward by Fourth-street, occifior.cd by j
w^Q the loss of a deed from Timothy Harriugtoa, John Lewis I
_ and James Wulton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux I
perfoMv concerned, are requiiell to appear before
—— two of the justices of the said court, at the house of 1
Thorns M'Kean, esq. the Chief Juftict of the (late, 00 I
the jo:.", vjtl. at 10 o'clock ik the forenoon, t«make their I
. £ or answer to of the fubferiber, filed in the office of I
Edward Burd, prothonotary of the said csurt. 1 '
WILLIAM SHIPPEN,jun. I{
Philadelphia, january6th, 1797. dtjoth 1
? In order to comply ivuh contrails, I will fell, for I
appmved bonds, on J equal annual payments,
iriiad A Square of LOTS, ;
sand At the upper end of Fredericklburg, beeinning op- I 1
ttin ß pofite to the lower corner of Do<3or Wellford's, 011 .
' >0 Caroline-ftrect, and running up to the cross street \
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back to ]
Sophia-street. This fquarel have laid off into 14 lots, 1
27 and an half feet front, and 122 back, 12 on Caro- s
lii,«-ftreet, and 11 011 Sophia-street. Nine of those J
on Caroline-ttreet I have leafed on an annual ground 1
rent of 8 and to pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds, I
and the vacant lots a putchafei could enhance the value I
of by building small houses, which will as readily I 1
procure tcnaats as pots or goards will Martins in the 1 *
spring, and yiel— a greater profit in proportion to (
their cost than large buildings. Thof; who incline '
to purChase may kn#w the terms by applying to
KpNRY FIT'ZHUGH.
Beli-Air, Dae. 8, 179<. '7thJ.d4W }
The Elephavit,
.re Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand '
n t oJ Doilars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet. ]
hoin He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of ;
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trtink.
r thi He is perfe<slly inofienßve; travels loose, at the I
J for rate of five an hour, and is the greatest euriofity I
;ly. ever brought to this Contiaent.
He is to be seen' 'till the 15th of January, in
f D Market-street bstween Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every o*e may fee him—
after which time the former price of half, a dollar will I
r , b« resumed. I
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather j
will permit,
December 31 d
Bank of Pennfylvani?, g
January 4, 1797. Dif
At a meeting of the Direilors th's day, a dividend ot
sixteen dollars on each ihire wai declared for the Ia(l
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders as
tir the inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
Jan. 3'., . £| -dtf.
—— ——. — ]
I Wm. HoLDpRNESSE, No. 76, ~~
HiGJi-STKEET,
1: Has received by the late arrivals, 1
A IVtU SthSed Assortment of am
Sillc Mercery, Linen Drapery, and soL
Goods,
j Which he will fell, and retail, on the very
lowest -—
Amongjl 'which
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and n=w
patterns
Ditto c orniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jacenet Muflir.i
Ditto ,in Cold aud Silver w j
Ditto b)eckcloth«, very fine
Mantua# of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aflorted
lrifh Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marfaillts and Cotton Counterpanes ,
Refe Blanketa afiorted—&c. &c.
Oflobtr »6. d
James M'AJpin, Taylor,
Nq. 3, South Fourth firect y __
RE TURN 5 &s grateful acknowledgments to his
iFriends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to ioiicit a continuance oT their favor*.
He has oo hand an extensive afiortmcnt of the
Most Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the belt quality, fu it able for the fcafon. —
At this shop Gentlemen can be furniihed with the best
materials, and have them made up in the ncateft and moil
paihionable manwer, and on the fhortcft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
p*n.£tual attention to them.
November 10. wi
, . ! . e<
PROPOSALS, £
For carrying the Mails of the United "
States, »
On the following Pojl Roads, will he rectived until "
/the jirjl day of March next inclusive -
1. From Charleftun, S. C. by Jackfonboro' and Coofa- fl
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week Receive tjje Mail
5 at Charlaiton every Tueiday and Friday by 6, P. M. and
— deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
' A. M. Returr.iugy receive the Mail at Savannah ev<
Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednesday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Gharlefton the next Tuesday and Friday
bynoor. ' ' '
2° r-'f,il jcr H-j route ruM be reftivui by ive f-aJPrnaJler at
Savannah.
2. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week-—
"Receive the maiLat Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
, p. M 4 and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning, lesyve Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. M.and arrive „
at Cx.fahatdiy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be rtf-
by the poft-maftcr at Beaufort.
Note 1. The Post-master General may alter the times j
for the arriv 'I and departure of the mails at any time du
e ring tixe cor.tinuance of the contract#, lie previously ftipu
j lating an adequate compensation for any extra <;xpcnee j
that may be qcoafioned thereby.
l " Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con- i
r tra<st, the contractor ihall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail ]
_ an additional forfeiture of five dollars lhall be incurred, f
Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire ao s
ie alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe-,
lC cified, he mnft state the alteration desired and the pric/ j
(I he will carry the mail for with and witkout such alte
j ration
Note 4. The contrails are to be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
v September in the year 1806.
£ JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pojl Majler Central.
- c General P*ft Office, )
rf Pbiladtlpbia, Jan. 13,1796. j
n 16. d6w.
ir
1 Mss. G RATTAN
RefpeAfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the iothday of January,
flie proposes opening, at No. 39, Nofth Sixth
,r street,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, frona 6/3 to J2/11 per yard
3 " Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
111 Striped ditto, from 7/10 to lofio per yard
Fine Coflaes
Tambour'il Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard
$9 India Muslin, from 11/3 to iff per yard
3- Sheeting Muslin '
fe Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6f per hdkf.
id Book muslin Handkerthiefs from 5/3 to \oft per hdkf.
s, Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
ie Dacca Handkerchiefs
[y Tambour'd Cravats fr«m ic/8 to lifll
le Pocket Handkerchiefs
to Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
, c Table Cloths
Huckabuck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from to 13/ per pair 1
Dimity from j/10 to (fu
— Men's Silk Hose
TambourM muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to ltfi
k( j IrHh linens for Gentlenren's Shirts, from 5/5 to
And a variety of other articles.
N. ii. Oraers received for all kinds of ready made
r Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
0 Pocket Handkerchieffe, 3tc. &c.
r ' Houfhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain skirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars*
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
y A plain shirt, made apd mark*d, $ dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars
In A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 i-» dollars.
a t A Jwll rullLd ditto 7 dollars.
— A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
ill A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1- 2 dollars,
er A very fine ruffled ditto S dollars'.
Linen included^
January 13. 5
T
Hibernian Society. ,
Such of the Members ot tbi.s society as are entitled to
Diplomas, are requested to'a'ppiy lor to
Mr. Hugh Holmes, Vict-1 •■'Jldtr.t ;
Mr. David M'Cormifi, Trenfurer ;
Mr. Robert H. Drinker, Lowijellor s
Mr. Jojtph Broivn ; p " v -.
Mr. Edward Fox ;
. Or to MATHEW CARP Sec.
IPhilad. faint It, 179;. taw6t
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL fituat«d, laying on and between Marlh
and Beech Clicks, Mifflin county, Pennfy'vania, in
four faparatc Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, Sauth Sfcond-itrset
January 26. " nnvftf
Waftiington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
~ -txehangi'd for prizes, at the Oflioe, No. 147, Chdfnut-
a cerrcOt Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe&ion. Canal Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizcs7n>uq£hi the alhington Lottery, of
which the 54th and 55tnrTaf5-r«tujn a arc received
$5* The Business ol a Broker cafrTJd>>a as Usual.
January 12. tfectf
All Persons having Demands
Against- the Estate of the late Thoaaas Franklin,
deceased, are desired to bring in their accounts for -
fettleraent; and those indebted to mate immediate
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, ") P
WALTER FRANKLIN, or [ , t cu "
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, j toMi
January »4th, 1796. eoiw
—i
' Wants a Situation,
' As a Housekeeper, an English woman, completely
qualified in ererv relpefl to keep a Gentleman's Houft.
Enquire of the Printtr.
January 16
/ ■ ■ ■ ■ " - **
Davis's Law Book Store,
„ No. 313, HIGK-STREET.
d —
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeflional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through* the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sal#, irem a ftngle volume to an entire li- *
brary, wiihout any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forleveral years pait haVc in so dUlinguilhet' a
maimer recommended thcm'io noticc.
Printed Catalogues combining the most extensive coilcp-<
tion cf the latest Englwh and Ir:ih Editions ever imported.
into this country, arc publilhed, and will be delivered gcaiis
on application.
Orders addrcfLd to G. D. in witting from any diftancc
a- (hall be pun&ually attended to.
il A number of TRUNKS for Sale,
id ALSO, TO BE LET,
g A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
ov.S, tdScf^m
FOR SALE, .
„ Ait. Tea Ware-House;
u i - _ J
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial -) fHyfon Skin.
Hyson, > Freih Teas. < Souchong,
Voung Hyson, 3 (.Bohea
, e E)ec - 9- 3taw3fn.
Le Breton,
S UR GE ON-DENTIST,
es Pupil of the celebrsted Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
u _ Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete afibrtment of eVeiy thing Becellary
lts to be used forthe
n- Preservation of the Mouth and Tf i.
he Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory ,£
a '= Dentrifice in powder; Opiate; excellent Eli >r
' d - sweetening the mouth and preserving the teath—he
au also furnilhes Brushes and foft Sponges.
le 7 * He live* in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
; Fourth-flreet.
e " November a 6. tt«
of Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 23d 0&ober #
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mked green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow button»|
a Ilriped veil; a pair of. dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. If is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed te driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward wiil be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
in again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid bf
-y> Robins Ghamberlaine.
t ' l " Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 (imiawtf
FOR SALE AT WILLIAM PRIEST MAN'S
Nq. 15 south Fifth-ftreet,
Between Market and Chefnur Streets,
A Quantity of Plai<j Gold Watches j Gold cnamclM &
ornamented with pearls ; Silver and metal ditto, by
the firft makers in London and Paris ; a Time-Piece
by Arnold ; plain gold by Mudge 15* Dutton; several
diamond and diamond pearl leckets, rings, ear-rings,
y &e ; about 60 lb. of Scotch thread; guns,
in cafe, by Manton ; quantity of platei table, tea, and
night plated candlesticks, branches, &c. 46 volumes of
Law-Books, in one lot, mostly reports, folio, scarce and
Valuable b«oks ; books of Prints amongst which are
Martyn on Shell*, Statue da Rofli, Calmct's DiA : onnairc
de Bible, Poets, 75 vols. Bafkerville's Addifon,
4 vols. Biogtaphia Britannica, Opere de Machiavelli,
Ruins ef Balbec, Blair's Chronology, Pli'nii Hiftonca Na
turalis, Mdntfaucon's Antiquities, State Trials; Evelyn's
Silva, Poftlewayte's DiAionary, Rittractii diiomini illuf
tri Tofcani, Ouevres de 23ayle, Caracci.
January 3!
de For Sal e,
ts, By the Subforibers —In PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
f WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
AL A PERSONS
INDEBTED to the Estate of Geskgf Ross, late «f Cape
(May, dece fed, arerequefled to make immediate pay
ment to the Subscriber, and these who havf demand,,
against said Eitate, will please call on him for settlement.
JAMES rOUNG, Admr,
Swaafon, below South Street.
January 3«New Theatre.
— i.~.
ON WEDNESDAY EVENING, Februjry I,
Will be presented, the Hillorical l*!ay of
Columbus;
Or, A WORLD DISCOVERED.
WITH NEW SCENERY, MACHINERY, DRESSES
AND DECORATIONS.
Themufie composed by Mr. Reinagle.
The preccffions and Pageant by Mr. Byrne.
In this PUy the manners and cudoms of Mexico and.
Peru characterize the ftrll discovered nations of America
Such deviation frem Historical truth was deemed ueceflfary
for drsmatie effect, and has enabUd the author to intro
duce the pathetic Tale of CORA and ALONZO, from
Marmontel's I*«ri.
The PROLOGUE will be spoken by Mr. Wicnslu
SPANISH PARTY.
'Columbus, Mr. Cooper
Alonzo, Mr. Mereton
HarryHHerbertt t ' Mr. Wignail
Doflor Dolores, Mr. Har-wood
Bvibon, Mr. Francis
Roldan, Mr. Fox
Valverdo, Mr. Darley
MhTcolo, Mr. B/iJfett
Captain, Mr. M'Donald
"lit Spaniard, Mr. Darley, jun.
id Spaniard, Mr. Morgan
' nmiAtrs.
Ororimbo, Mr. W"' ren
Solafco, Mr. V Eft rang-
Catalpo, Mr. IVarrell
Cuto, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Cora, Mrs. Merry
Nelti, Mrs. Francis
PriifUfies of thelun. J^
Indian Women,—Mrs. Harvey, Mrs. Doctor, Miss Mil
bourne, Miss Oldfield. Miss L'Eftrange, Miss Bates, Miss
Andcrfon, and"M*e!leSophie
In aft t.
A P R&CZ-SS 10 N 0 F INDI AN a, and the firft
Landing of Columbus.
Tn af 1 3.
REPRESENTATION 6F A STORM AND EARTHQUAKE ;
Witha Grind Ervttion from 1 Votcaso.
In a& 4.
A Masch of Sacrifice, and Proceflion to the Execution
of Cora.
The whole to conclude with A GRAND PAGEANT.
The scene of the Volcano defined by J. Richards,
Ifq. R. A. principal Scene Painter to Covent-Garden
Theatre.
The reft of the Scenery designed by Mr, Milbourne,
and the whole executed by him and under his direc
tion.
Machinist, Mr. Lenthall.
TkedrefFcs designed by Mr. Gibbon*.
'To which will be added,
A MUSICAL FARCE, called
The Flitch of Bacon ;
Or, DUNM&W PRIORY.
"Wilson, Mr. Darley.
Greville, Mr. Darley, jun.
Major Benbow, Mr. Bates
Tipple, Mr. Prig more,
Being his firft appearance at this Theatre.
Ned, Mr. J. Warrell
Kilderkin, Mr. Morgan,
Putty, Mr. Mitchell ,
Justice Benbow, Mr. IVarrell
Eliza, Mrs. ffW/
On Friday, the Tragtdy of VENICE PRE
SER V' 1), milk entertainments.
Box, One Dollar cents. Pit Seven Etgh'hs
«f a Dollar, s%id Gallery, half a dollar.
$jT Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's Book-store
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
, Ladies afid Gentlemen are requested te fend their
servants to keep places a quarter'before 5 o'clock, and"
to order them, as soon as the company are seated, to
■withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to'remain.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office on Satur
day maening, as usual.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places fer the Boxes to T)e taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till % o'clock, and'from
10 till 4 on the days of performance.
VIVAT RESPURLICA !
The Lyceum, for free Debate,
In Mr. Poor's School-Ro m, Cherry Jlreet, between
Third and Fourth Streets,
' ON WEDNESDAY, February 1,
Will be debated,
"OoSHr a RirßiszNTATrvz in a RefubliCan
"Government to act on important measures
" FROM THt RESULT OF HIS OWN JUDCMEXT, OR FROM
•' THE WTLL OF HIS CoNSTLTUBNTS LEGALLY EXPRESS
. " ID ?
The Chair will be taken at 7 o'clock.
Admittance for Lxdies and Gentlemen, i-Bth of a
dollar.
January 31 et
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEYILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland i* 1783, or 1784, and came into ,
this Country, ('tis ftrppofed to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of thehigheft importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-ftieet
December 31. w&f tm
Second Ball.
New Cotiliens, Scotch Reels, Centre Dances and a
new Quadrille.
"jl ,1 ESS FRANCIS & BTRNE beg leave to inform
iVI their scholars, friends and the public in genera!,
that their fetond iJallfer this season will be on Tuefdsy
the 7th of February, jt O'Ellers's AiTembly-Room,—
and in addition to their npw Cotilions and Reelt, will
be introduced in entire n«w QUADRILLE, compos
ed by Mr. Byrne.
Mtff. Francis and Byrne propose to give gratuitous at
tendance at their School. Room, for the mfln.ction of
those ladie6 aad gentlemen in then- new dances, who mean
to honor the tall-room with their prefenfe,—attendance
for this purpofc after their school hours, on Tutfdays and
Thursdays.
Tickets to be had of MelT. Francis and Byrne, No. 70
north Eighth-flreet, 01 at O'LllersV Hotel. Ladies are
requested to apply to their female friends, scholars of Mefl'.
f. & B. or as above, at their rcfidciice.
N. B. The new dances will not infringe upon ihe usual
routine of the evening.
Fhedaysof teaching, for their young pupils, are Thurs
days a»d Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon,
'till fix—and on Tuefoays and Thurf.tays, from ix 'till
Bine, for those of a more advanced a^e.
Private Tuition as usual.
January 18 aaw
WASHINGTON LOTTERr, N>. 11.
List of Prizes and Blanks.
58th Day» Drawing, January sr.
Nt. Dais. No. Pols. No. Dots IYO. Dols.
53 trios' 44295 *o V
680 815 715 792 10
706 10 Ixlo2 10 2511 a 813 10 ,
,96a 572 15 231 370
7/5 7SO 10 39049 10 ,
439 13101 26618 335 "
484 224 10 975 435 tl
509 235 10 17079 10 894 it
2371 260 095 10 40002 f;
626 346 28152 41737 160 c
778 635 155 10 797 e
. 3060 I4«2I 657 <l©3a ,
177 888 685 43205 '
378 15491 3»376 10 44244 l°" a
733 573 405 jB6 20 «
829 v 16278 10 810 751 10 -v
4156 17126 10 31101 aj 45356 r
381 262 397 46271 10 , r ,
768 10 3*4 615 3*5 »• (,
SOB *0 458 50 3*549 5® 10
918 704 10 874 T ® 692
5231 18015 xo \ii*l 10 773 10
443 019 le-r" 34435 10 473& 1 t
6045 Tf J7° 677 ii
55S 3'6 - 9i 6 10 48168 f
386 589 lo
849 J49 437 »6» JO j
73°S f73 ic 934 io 597
8021 724 10 36008 992 '
147 10 19722 iso" 167 49063 a
729 10 20005 46i 186
848 10 644 10 494 236 ic f
9004 21098 705 10 402 c
a7O 23039 81a is
95"» "8 37170 929 18
10302 10 23052 i* 175 10 976 10
735 10 550 241 i*
11354 24061 366
59th Days Drawing, January 23.
No. Dyls. No. Doh. No Dels. No. Dots.
725 10 1238 a *8322 34853 j
848 10 500 19721 10 38197 10
ij»B 651 10 20420 10 325 10
2*25 796 460 10 397.19 Ito
625 xo 924 i* 21485 !. 3
769 10 1*3234 »5 22089 41160
3347 300 46l 79» 1®
360 406 996 954
967 10 719 xo 25182 42*07
4015 10 743 629 10 J52
5283 10 946 *6»i7 827
6034. 14309 »7437 •439"'i
805 ' 335 28126 10 44T37
7474 634 *9258 10 470
573 803 579 715
984 967 644 10 757 10
8410 10 X 5021 30391 890
9164 10 ®a 6 iioi 45215
"7 v *s3 3'S7S 47206
744 83l 10 32640 554
10509 10 16783 709 10 771 ic
616 17131 35 710 10 48111
X 1046 * 143 878 10 9ro .
655 652 33548 49 152
11376 801 960 437
NEW-YORK, January 30.
A bill lias been debated in the Assembly (but no
qneftion taken) for felling tothe New-Y«rk Bank
all the fiz per cent (lock of this state at par, or do
mir.a! wthle : 'the purcTiaie ttior.tr to f.i pi:d JBc?.
and] the bank to pay 6 per cent ißteieit half yearly
on the 6 percent stock, and die fame intereli oh
the deferred stock after the year 1800.
A bill is before the Senate far the gracl I abo
lition of flsvery, and another for improving the
criminal police of the City of New-York.
It is already published that the bill for granting
relief to the fufferers at Savannah has been rtje&ed
by the Assembly of this State. On this occafian,
it may be proper to state that thefum of 5
dollars was raised by fubfeription in Philadelphia,
for thorfufferers in Charleston by fire lalt year.
Confiderahle sums were raised inßahimore and. oth
er towns for the fame humane purpose. The-Le
giflature of Pennsylvania have granted 15,000 dol
lars for the relief of Savannah ; but not a billing has
been sent from New York, one of the 'icheli states
in the union. Yet in Charleston, which had fuf
fered five times more than New-York by fire, in
proportion to its numbers and wealth, no sootier
was the late fire known in Charleston, thin ajiublic
j»ropofition was made to enquire whether any per
son in New-Yoik had been reduced ta distress, and
if so, to open a'fnbfcription immediately for their
relief. The fact is stated without a ceramtßt.
The French Directory have written a letter ef
condolence to the mother of Gen. Marceau, on the
death of that brave officer.
From a Charleston paper of the xo:h inftint.
A gentleman of this city has received a letter
from his friend lb the Havannah, which mentions
that Mr. Thomas Mnir, one of the gentltrtien who
were transported to Botany Bay by the British go
vernment, about three years ago, had arrived in
that city a short nine fnice.
The account he gave of himfelf was, that he elu
ded the vigilance of his keepers at Botany Bay,
and got on board of a vefTel which carried him to
Nootka Sound ; that he v. ent amongst the Indians,
and, after travelling nearly the whole length of the
weft coait of America, he got to Panama; and
there he made himfelf known to the governor, who
sent him across the Isthmus of Barien to La Vera
1 Cruz; from iheuoe, he was-fent in a Spanish fri
gate to the Havannah, wheie he expe&ed to get on
1 board an American vefTel and reach the United
' States, but unfortunatly fer him, a letter was feat
by lire governor of La Vera Crur to the governor
1 of the Hayannali, in which he mentions, that tho'
. he had shewn Mr. Mnir every civility in hi»J>owrr,
yet he thought that a man pYofeffing his principles
• would be dangerous in the Spanish dominions ; ■
iherefore+ie recommended his being sent to Spain!
. for the king to determine what should be done with ■
i him. After being a few days at the Havannah,
he was committed to a prifdn on the north fide ©f
3 Cuba, called La Principa, where he is to remain
' until a proner conveyance offers to carry him to
Spain. His confinement is not rigorous, and eve
.l ry indulgence is shewn to him that is not incompat
ible with his lituatien. The gentleman who writes
- the letter containing this account, conversed with
Jj Mr Muir, who was much disappointed at not meet
ing an American agent there, as he had hoped,
thro' his interiefiion, to be relesfed, and be permit
ted to fail for this continent.
LEGISLATURE of NEW-YORK, U
Houfc of RjprtJenlnlivis, yon. 18. 11
On Friday, Mr." D. Ten Broeck, moved the e
following lefolution, with the recital. b
Whereas it is represented tothe Legifiature by n
William North, Esq. late Speaker of the Hon. the
House of Afleiybly, that during the lallleffion of 1
**lie Legiflaiure, a certain William Kit'.letas, tor
certain offences, highly injurieus to the honor an;! v
dignity of the hon,/the Ho'ufe of Aflembly, and g
the people of the state of Ne^-York, was, by unan- t
imous resolution of said House of Assembly, for t
said offence, committed to the goal of tne city and f
county of New-Tork, an the warrant of the Speak- fj
er—That in eonftquence of this commitment, J&e ■»
said WillianK Kittletas has '■
a iielaration agjiinft North o
wh«4i luu 'is" how depending in the fuprcme court v
•of this state ; and forafmuch as the privileges of e
rhe Repl-efentatives of the people ought to be and v
'remain inviolate and without cncioashmeot, and the n
honor and dignity of the house fupporicd and v
maintained ; Therefore, li
Refelved, (if the hon. the Senate concur herein) n
that the Attorney-General of this state be and he ii
is hereby ,dire£led and required, to defend the said
filit coMmeuced by illiam Kittletas, against
William North, Esq. late Speaker of the hon. the
House of Aflembly, and that the Legislature will "
make adequate piovifion for all necessary expences 0
and the premises. F
On which debates were had, and on the question t
for the House adopting the fame, a divilion was «
called, and Mr. Comftock Hood alone in the nega- I
live, 1
- 1
t
Philadelphia, February I. n
BT AUTHOPITT. a
Promotions *nd appointments in the corps of Ar- c
tillerifls and Engineers. t
Lieut. Gebrge Demlar, 1 ,
Lieut. Joseph Elliott, }to bc Ca P ta «"- e
Andrew Marfchalk, T t
Howell Cobb, c
Joseph Campbell' r
Richard Whiley, f
Philip Laudais, v
Philip Rodrique, • S . c
James Triplet, g r
Thomas Van Dyke, I g 1
Samuel T. Dyfon, * \
George R»fs, t
James Rand, 1
Robert Parkinfon. _ f
A letter fr»m Cape Nichols Mole to a gentle- (
man in this city, irentions, tliat the brig Punch, j
Captain Rutherford was taken by a British 74 gun ;
(hip on her way from the port of St. Domingo to <
Jacnael and carried into the Mole. |
Exlracl t£ a litter fram Martinique, dated jib jfa- (
nuary, 1797, received by the /shower Liberty,
Cast. Crane, arrived at Marcus Hook.
" On the 15th iuft. arrired at Fort Royal, Sir I
R. Abercrombie, Gen. Hope, tic. from England, 1
yi Miiya, Airlfawll n
Slid vre learn that 15000 men may be expected in
1 the eourfc of this month, it is supposed to attack
Gu.Vfaloupcs although the most profound fecrccy is
observed at head-quurtcrs.
: " Tranquility is at length restored to the ill-fa
ted islands of St. Vincent's and Gienada, and the
insurgents of St. Lucia are nearly reduced—The
Charibs have all furrendeted, and are now in the
> ifiand ef Ballifoa.
' "On the 26th ult. 6 fail of the line, with some
• frigates failed, it is supposed to Trinidad, to cut
• out the Spasifh squadron, coiififting of 5 ships of
the line.
Pofifcript of a letter from Jamaica, dated 24th of
December, 1796.
5 General Abercrombie and-his army are landed at
s St. Domingo, aud were within a few aiiles of Cape
Francois, driving all before them.
The schooner Amy, Woodman, arrived at New
: York., left Cape-Francois Dee. 24, and heard nothing
. of the marching of any troops againfl that plaee.
r COMMUNICATIONS.
Should men, when raised to offices of (U<e, ex
f clufivcly favor and promote the interelt pi tiiofe
s they regard as their friends ? Ptu r>fCn, in his
morals, fays, that Clfon, when bc'firft knew that
the affairs of government were<o devolve on him,
r assembled together his friends, and immediately dif
s solved all connection with them, left his mind might
1 be improperly biassed, and the public good be made
- a faciifice to piivaii iuteteft. But I'hemistocles
(i .on the contrary, said to one who told him that he
would govern well if he exhibited himfelf alike to
- all—" May I never fit on that throne on which my
, friends shall not have more poiver with me than
0 those who are not my friends.'' Here are two api
i, nions dueftly opposed to etsh other, and neither
e of them can be approved. Independence of mind
d should charafiterize. every person clothed with pew
o er. He fliouid be deaf to the fawning sycophant
a and the feivile flatterer ; he ftiould dirett his choice
i- to talents andwirtue ; he fhuuld not think of his
n friends when the interest and welfare of. his coun
d try plead in favor of the meritorious stranger ; he
it should act under the impief&on thai those who are
ir to succeed him will arraign his condudt arrd rcjudge
>' his decisions. X- (N- York Diary.J
----' *
rs There arc thoufandt who wished fucccfs to Cap
; tain Barney as far as revenge, for personal indigni
n ty called for it—that he might meet with audhum
h ble the British ruffian who ill treated him on his
i, voyage to ths Well-Indies trfme years since. But
as the duties of an American ciiizeu ought to have
In I ftay'd him from turning the cause that led him to
;o ' seek either fortune or vengeance inter a.i occasion in
e- which he is made the inftnlmeut of foreign aggref
t- lion upon our trade.
es Small Fire Engines.
;h I observed in a late paper that the town of Salem
t- in Maffaehufctts had ordered one or more large en
d, glues to be contra&ed for in Philadelphia. The ar
it- tilts of this eity in that line, are undoubtedly unri.
vailed—and therefore iu the cou&iu&ioa of either
V. /■ -,v- r ; -"j; ' *P
large or fnaa'! engines. »h« penpte of Sal»r
not have applied to a better fuirce. A c
engines in a large city are .doubtleft advantageous ;
b»n in general it witl be found that imall »ne» ate
motUufeful.
In country towns particularly, i* which the fct
ilcraents are extenhve and detached, three final! en
,{ineß which may not cod more than one large ooe»
would probably render ten times the service in any
given number of years An engine large enough
to throw water over the roof of a hou£«, may be
transported to the scene of fire by three qt-fiaiip-pcf
foas, they may be plaeed.in U "T convenient
fituatioui brought into operatic®
Mef. The recolledfion of almost any resident of a
large city will furmfh hjm wuh fadts corroborative
of the foregoing remarks. Fires ai"c~ g «rera%-]*T«=T-~r;
vented from spreading in the firft inftanee by lrnall
engines. In the town of Boston a small engine
which oac man could haul thro' the (tree's, was the
means of preventing in the space of three years se
ven fires from becoming conflagrations The uti
lity sf hose was so apparent at the late fire in Chef
nut-ttreet, that no time ought to be loft infuruilh
ing every engine with that necessary appendi»e.
c.
Much is fatd of late of the expediency of fend,
ing an envoy extraordinary to deprecate the wrath
of France ; and that the man f-k Jed for that pur
pose (hould be known to possess the confidence of
the government to.which he (hall befent, In a Ci
milar inftanee, they fay, Mr. Jay was sent to Great-
Britain on account of his partiality to that country.
This is far from being a just ftateme.it—Mr. Jay
had given the belt evidence, that he had no partiali
ty for any country but his Tfcat he could he
neither awed, flattered or cajoled, by France or
Great Britain, nor by both combined. That in
all the afFe&iansof his heart he was a real Ameri
can. Hence the virulent abuse, which has been re
turned for his eminent fer vices".
But fuppofingflAe wwiiftw* of -fending an extra .
envoy agreed on, who shall be deputed f A man »f >
the federal party ? A friend of the President and
of hjj adminiflration ? Th«ty have already been de
i nounced by The terrible republic. Fromj them the ap
peal has been made to the people. Hence those
who propose the measure of fending an envoy, con
clude jultiy, that such a cbara&er, so far from pra-'
rooting conciliation, would inevitably produce en.
creased irritation. What is then to be done ? Shall
we fend'# declared democrat Y A man who is known
to possess partiality to France ? An enemy to the
President and his administration ? Thefc men have
stimulated France to eommit those gross injuries of
which we complain ; and from the governor of S.
Carolina down to the lowest street babler of the
party, they juftify her intolerable'pggreffioiig. And
are these the men to whom the honor, the inteietl
of our country, and a.redtefs of her wrongs are ttt
be committed i jPatriotifm and generous
on forbid.
Mr, Bache used to entertain his readers
stances of Briti/h amity. Why does he r
his lift of instances of French amity ? t ouM
nui ijl :ui-i.u; 3iiO!nietiri tu tuveuftticini.
The scarcity of calh in our sea ports, is .. bed
by many to so much of our trading capital
locked up by the Ftench depredations on the fcas,
and in the Weft-Indies.
The poor duke of Modeqa is accused by the
French of ill using some of hi's own fubjefis, who
weie republican minded, and in confcquence, they
seize his treasures, See. and put an end to ihe truce.
It be|ioves us to treat our democrats
bows (for though they are not re
may be called such) as there is no
hands wc may fall into. If they f ge: tliirj;.
upper hand in America, Adet's thi
verified, that the repubHcis terrible t -.a s.
From an E.ijtern Correfponna».
Our newfpapcre are of late very inftiudire. The
outtajfOtjs abuse of the rights of a conqueror ill
Kafy opens all eyes, except such as ate flout blind.
The little states are insulted and plundered exa&ly
in proportion to their wcaknefii. Yet the fame
fraternizing cant is tiled. If .Amenta had beeii as
feeble as the Italian powers, or strong as (he is, had
been as credulous as our jacobins, we (hould have
fared as hardly as they do. Fa&s thrt canndt de
ceive are before us, and words that deceive no longer
are used to cloak them. It is all in viin. The
newfpapeis at this day cure as tnany jacobins as
they formerly made. Hair of the fame dog' cures
madness.
The lift of publicatiens »dvertifed in the Aurora
as " POLITICAL WO RIW is a very striking
exhibition of the manaers, morals, politics and
teligion of the condu&ors of that paper. If the
" persecuted patriots" (hould flee to Louifrana, o
if the French fhou'.d not possess that eouptry, as
' these patriots wife, and they (honM themselves co
lonise Botany Bay, these " Political Works ' would
be a great comfort to tliem in their banishment.
' The loss of the works and the patriots would be
' very tolerable—as one houell man awd one book
" written with tnifii atid plain goo 3 sense would be
"■ of mofr 4alue than all the ten waggon loads of ad
; vertifed lies, nonfenle and blasphemy, and all ihe
: mob of bankrupts and khaves who are called "> per
secuted patriots."
Mr. Fen no,
Your inferring in your ufeful paper, the following
■ fliort extrifl from a-charge deliveredhy Judge Rush
s at Wyoming, in the moAth of August last, to tha
t grand jury of the county of Luzerne, will gratify [he
c lovers of peace and order, and much oblige
Your humble lervant, W. B.
u «< Before I fit down, permit me, gentlemen, to re
r- mind you, that by an ait of our legiilatore, passed the
nth day. of April i-795, to prevent (Settlements by
intrusion in the counties of Northampton, NorthSfn
berlind, and Luzerne, it is declared, that taking pos
session of land in auy of the said counties, by virtue of
or under colour of asy title not derived from our go
[' vernmeut, or the lute proprietaries of Pennfyfvama,
t- is aa iudiif able offence — the lame law, all
:r I biuatioos for the purpose of conveying, or fettling <mIs, within 'he limits of this state—or for the «
,) laying out any town "lips, Are considered
irainal; and the persons concerned therein as
1, or acc'eflary, are' liable on conviction, to
-s and imprisonment.
-f w m iy be said to ewe its existence to the high
ol coinmiliioners which fat under the conftitu-1
the United States, at Trenton, in the year
( ' ; 1 which, on a hearing between Pennsylvania P a l
edicat, touching the question of boundary,
so m,-i • decided in favor of the former state. In
purfuanceof powers veftec! in Congress by the old (h
confederation, they were declared to be "the laji re- j A
fort in all disputes between [tntes concerning boundary e f
or Under this clause, the appeal was
regularly made to that hody, and judges appointed
aereeably to the dire&ions of the eonftitution, who
after a full hearing finally pronounced an unanimous
z »•—- M
?-tfonh>fd right, confirmed and ascertained by thedt
cifion then given, and which it is utterly impoUible
Pennsylvania (hould ever relinqui ll ,-.'
Some persons have indeed entertained an idea,
that the indivifiußh whose interest was affe<fled by the fl
decree at Trenton, have a right to a Jecond trial be- .
fire Conrrefs, on the queffion of foil, or private title >8
between"citizen and citizen. To my appAhenfion it in
docs not appear, that th* genuine conftruflion of Ue th
clause, will warrant any such inference. It contem
plates merely a special Uw, viz. that where any two H
Jlutes may have adjusted the question of jurifdittion,
as far as refpetSlsthe lands claimed by them, and the j
grants to the lands are claimed to have originated pre- I P'
vious to the settlement of the question of jurifdulton fc><
between them—that in this ca/e, there may be a trial
before Congress, concerning the private right of foi ,
•n the petition of either party (or state) which lhall I
be determined in the fame manner, they might have a|
badxhe question of boundary decided on appeal to j
Congress. » I
Other persons, I well know, are propagating a
still more visionary scheme, of a second trial, on tht j ai
merits of the original controversy. In the ordinary jtl
cases of private property, the laws recognize a right
to a second trial, under certain cireumftances, and j
therefore it may be had. But in the cafe of a great 1
national question, it is both trifling and ridiculous to j
talk of it; more especially as the ionftitution, in con
formity to -witiek vlic ttiilhath bren had, explicitly de- I
blares the judgment of the commissioners ftiil be " si.
nal and cosclufivc " I ''
But perhaps you will fay, why are these obfer- J ti
nations made nrw, and why are we at this time, called j a
upon to execute the a& against intruders ? I
I answer yon candidly, gentlemen. Very alarm- d
ing reports are ever-, where spread, and have reached j j.
the government, of surveys made by men in arms— I
of whole townlhips being laid oiF under an a;]umed j v
aathority—and that a land office has been opened in (
the county, for the avowed purpose of granting war
rants and dilpofing of lands, in direA opposition to I a
the laws ana government of Pennsylvania. _ ! |
These are high charges, and of very serious im- t
port; and there is too much rcafon to believe that there 1
are those amongst us, of desperate charaifter and views, 1
who are fatally bent upon the mad scheme of a fepa- 1
rate Jlate : and t ■ attain their objeift, scruple not the |
use of means whii.h invariably lead to war and blood-1
Ihed. I
I befeeeh you, gentlemen, to eonfider eoely, I
whither these meafmres tend. We will venture to I |
calculate, without the spirit of prophecy, what will I
be the result, in fpitp of the fanguint praje&s of a
few deluded state (peculators.
It is impofiible to believe, for a moment, that I
littleJVnfe •»«! in as to I
fuffer an enterprjze like this to facceed. Every
member of that body, cannot "but fee, that what]
hnppers here to day, may happeS el/etubert to-mor I
low ; and therefore we may be confident, they will
unanimously set tbeir faces against the present law-1
less attempt to form a ftparate state. Should they j
quietly give way to violence and ufurpaiion here, J
similar schemes will doubtless be pursued in other j
places, and our country swarm with projeflors, j
who will focn hitter it into as many divisions and J
sub divisions as ambition or avarice may devise.; A j
common sense of danger will therefore unite ail j
~ _ "TSJts of the union against you. If the weftetn in-1
Ci.'re&ion was fiißtlnjfd a few years ago, by the j
spirited exertions of the people in fuppnrt of law j
and liberty, how ean others flatter themselves with J
hopes of fi/ceefs, and between whom there is this I
difference ? They had risen in opposition to a law, 1
by many esteemed odious, and dangerous to free-1
dorn. But_y®« are 'orraing a projriifc to seize the j
property of other persons ; an enterpriie infinitely
mischievous, and whiah can have no advocates, ex
cept thc-paiti? His of anarchy and plunder.
It is trm.7 we pcrtteis very eahght
ened ideas of government, and bonft much of our
republican virtue, and we are not sparing in our
abuse and contempt of monarchical constitutions.
But what fignify these things, if they are not fuf
(i ient to inducc us to submit to governments of our
czcn making, and rulers of our own choo/ing f Re
publicans who openly oppose themselves to the de
«rees of the tupieme authority of the nation, are a
di'»iace to the name and chara&ff The king of
Gieat Biitjin, in \nsjirjl fpeect t«> "Parliament, af
ter acknowledging our dared to
prophecy, tllat our reptJihUeai) government would be
of (hort duiation, and'that we (bould soon be glad
to exchange it for a limited l monarchy. care,
gentlemen, that by your conduct you do not render
yotnlelves tli.e undefigning iuftruments of aecomp
lifliing, inpirt, this predidion. For reft assured,
no pofnipn 10 the hiilory of politics is more unquef
j tionably true, than that if mankind cannot liad their
property ptotedted tinder one form of government,
they will have recourse to some gther that pofleffes>
more energy and vigor.
finally, gentlemen, your o<u>n immediate concern,
and the interest you have in common, with the other
parts of the state, call loudly on you at this important
moment, to discharge your duty as grand jurors, with
firmnefs and integrity.. You are under the sacred ob
ligations of an oath, that you will diligently enquire
ind true presentment make of all luch matters which
Jhall be given you in charge■ And in order that yo«r
attention may bethemoYe pointedly turned to the fub
jedl, the court does i* this public and solemn manner,
give the ail againji intrujion in charge to you ; and we
expe&, as you value your own happiness, and the prof
pcrity of our country, you will ftriiflly and honestly
present every violation of this law. that may have fal
len within thecompafs of your knowledge. '
•*= 1 ■" ' - 1
fct- ON FKID Y,
The third ioft. at hail paMte o'clock P. M■ the Annual
Qratko of the Philadelphia Medical Society, will be deliver
ed at the CUy I'avein —where all the honorary members are
teqaeßed to attend.
By oider of the Socisty.
I *t j
Philadelphia,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY i, 1797. C;
— bli
The piece signed " X. X." came too late for thi« day's
paper—it will be publithei to-morrow. va
Died, yesterday in the Pennsylvania Hospital,
(having relided therein upwards of twelve years,)
Jambs Frisby, Juik Planter,of the Eaftera-ftiore
of Maryland.
A!foy*fterday» Capt. Daniel WOODBURY. ¥J
The Sre in Moravian Alley, trtentioned in our
paper of Monday, was nst'in the buildings of Mr.
Morris ; it tvas the Brew House adjoining- ~
THEATRICAL. fu
We are happy to hear, fays a carrcfpondent, that c '
the play of
«' COLUMBUS, or, a WOULD DISCOVERED,"
is to be represented for the second time, this Even- j. 1
ing. So gitat was the croud on Monday evening, '
that many persons had but a very imperfeiSl view of
the superb scenery ; and numbers relumed from the
House Vithout attempting to enter.
F The display of decorations and pageantry in this
play, undoubtedly exceeds any theattical exhibition "
before seen in America.
t<
The Snow Industry, Timothy Russell, from St.
Übes, and the (loop Betsey, Dawkins, from Port- "
au-Prince, to this port put into Bermuda in dittrefs,
011 the 14th, January. '
The Resolution of 74. guns, La Raifon frigate, ''
and the Lynx (loop of war, wev« at Bermuda at '
the above date.
The biig America, Tour, was at Guadaloupe,
Jan. I—to1 —to fail in 3 weeks for this port.
The fchr. Morning Star, Hart, from this port
to Trinidad, was spoke Dec. 3, by a veffelSarrived
at Boston from Surinam.
The fchr. Betsey, Norris, from Teneriffe, to *
this port, after being on the coast a confiilereble 1
time, was obliged to beat away for the Well Indies 1
and arrived at St. Croiit, Jan. 3.
Arrived at Marcus-Hook, —Brig Silly, Colladv, 22 j 1
days from Port-au-Prince. Left there brig Amelia, B. '
Houften. 1
Sloop Favorite, Lege, from this port to Newbern, 1
was cast away in a gale, Nov. 25, on Bodies Island— |
Captain, Crew, and part of the cargo saved. (
A letter from Baltimore, of aßth rill, informs, that |
a large (hip from Batavia, belonging to Clark & Night
ingale, of Providence, R. I. was sent into St. Mar- '
tin's, by a French privateer.
1
" , 1
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, January 24.
' Captain Stover, from Surinam, informs, that
' the English were about to blockade that place—
vessels of war for this purpose kad arrived in the
' river. The inhabitants expected an attempt would
be made to get poffeflion of the colony. A number
' of vessels were funk in the river to obftruft the pjf
' sage to the town. Provisions were fcarcc-—idand
1 produce high.
1 Captain Hollis, from Guadaloupe, fays, the
I French at that island are alfodepredating on Ame
rican commerce- They have equipped a number
of privateers, and capture all vessels belonging to
the United States, going to or coming from British
r P° rU - _
The orders for capture of American vessels If- '
j ceived at Guadaloupe, were from the minilter in
America. They were not fufficiemly explicit, and
,j captain Very, who arrived on Saturday, infoims,
' that he brought difpatchcs from Vi&or Hughes to
citizen Adet, on that fubjr&.
Captain Cole, who arrived lad evening from Aux
Cayes, Hates, that American produce is very high
and scarce at that place—but thit the nefarious
condu& of the admiaidration of that place, towards
' Americans, continued, and deterred nany from en
tering the port.
. Fortune's Favour'tes.
No. 11,00®, the fortunate number which drew
20,000 dollars, is owned by Messrs. Reed, and
it _ Green, ef Keejie, N. H. They had be«n confi-
Hr nbdiji prison for some time fat debt j and 00c of
urn cuftodjr of an officer, arrived in town on
Saturday, to claim this boon of fortune. It is said
f 'hat 3f,os>o dollars have been'drawn is the last
ur drvar< J Lotttcy, by thiee tickets owned within 8
miles of their residence.
,C- » X
H NEW YORiTjanua.y 31.
0 f Bermuda papers containing the news whiah follows,
if. wire put into our hands yesterday.
to BERMUD A, Dec. 17.
We have had for a length of time very heavy
id 6 a ' e * w ' f rom 'V* nonh weft. Many vessels
c> have been seen t® pass by, some apparently in dif
er tress, particularly a large armed (hip on Sunday
p. evening last on the north fide, but too leaky for
any pilot to attempt to boa-d her—(he has net been
,f. seen since. . The next morning the schooner Dif
,j r patch, Bates, from Boftnn for Baltimore, blown
t) off the coast, with lumber, Sc.c. run on the rocks
es but got off and berught fafe into harboui—loft
hw deck load in the gale.
n, Tuesday arrived brig Juno, Bertram, from Liv
er erpool, England bound to New York, alter about
nt 60 days passage, with horses, tcc.
th A 1 "1 'his day came in a (loop (Vom New-York,
k" bound for Charleston, with rum.
Entered at the Cuftaip House, schooner Induf
|r try, Hue, fro« Baltimore, with loss of one man,
b- and leaky.
:r, December 25.
ve This week the Spanifli brig Noftra Seaara del
' f ~ Carman, prize to the privateer Fortune of War,
J was condemned in the Court of Vice Admiralty as
lawful prize to the,captors (being the firft tried this
war with Spain ). Her cargo is very valuable.
Ths fehooner Tabula, which arrived Wednesday
ial last from Madeira, spoke his Majefty'i (hip Spot
cer, Capt. Evans, dn Monday last : the Spencer
" c had taken a valuable Spa ni ill prize, and feat her for
these island*.
Th'irfdav arrived the privateer Harlequin, Cap- T
tain Parker, which lias takee a Spatufn biig. th
January 7. pe
This day arrived his Majelty's ship La Raifon, pr
Capt. Beresford, frnm a cruize : (he took a valua- ' de
ble Spanish prize, and feat her far these islands th-
Arrived the Spanilh (hip Beatrice, ftom the Ha- ba
vannah, bound to Cadiz, prije to his Majelfy's ge
Chips Relolution, Lynx, L'Elperance & Spencer, m
And Thursday arrived tbe Spanilh brig , tu
prize to the Harlequ* privateer, with above 900 jul
boxes as sugar, &c. eai
Strong north weft gales have drove a iiHmber of ! th
vessels in here in distress, from thecealt of America. 1 th
The har<Twinter has proved very deltrudlive 'to j dii
the cattlft and hortesof the iffands. ! vii
There is a great f. arcity of corn here bow ; a j afl
ft w cargoes would fell at high prices, as'.the con
lumption ot that wtceflary article is very great in U
theft- islands. in
Came in here in distress, fchoaner Thetis, La- th
truite, from Barbadoes for Baltimore, with loss as fe
foreraaft and bowsprit—Schooner William, Nichols, th
from St. Bartholomew's for New-York — Schooner di
Fortune, Ltndfay, from Grenada, for Wells in Mas. pi
facbufetts. m
January 14. tl
Ycfterday arrived his majesty's ships the Refold- 0 |
lion, captain Pender, of 74 guns; and Lynx, k
Capt. Hall, of 16 guus, from a craize of about at
two moathj. r{
Natwithttanding the fevcrity of the weather this 01
winter on the continent, all the ftiips of admiral w
MurtViy's squadron have been continually cruising,
fcurcely allowing themselves titye to victual and wa- r j
ter, while the fleets in the Weft-Indies are lying q\
snug in harbour, ta the mauifeft injury of the Sri- r <
tifh , j t
Saturday last \he brig Three Brothers, Gee.
Brown, mailer, of and from New-Haven in Con
necticut, run on the Rocks off the Well End, and
knocked her rudder off; (he afterwards came to c
an anchor, hut in getting under weigh again on I
Sunday, to endeavour to get in, was obliged to cut t
the afcehprs away, and the veflei making a great I
quantity of water, after fruitlcfs attempts, the crew
to abandon her : aiid ftie is totally loft, t
with all her valuable cargo of cattle, live (lock, i
' beef, pork, corn, &o. n?>t" the least part of which r
i was insured, to the great loss and ruin of the cap- t
j tain, whose whole property was in the brig, as it I
j has reduced him from a ttate of the greatest afflu
ence to the greatest mi(ery at one fatal stroke—we i
hear a fubfertption isfetting on foot for the purpose ,
of relieving so worthy and refpe&able a character, (
whose best endeavours were ufeti ta bring a supply ;
of provisions far the inhabitants v.hich would have
relieved thtcouutry much at this jun&bre, had aet |
the misfortune happened, asthete is not a bushel as
corn, any park or beef for file. To set such a .
person once more a float, would redound to the ho- |
norof the country, and can be done with the great- j
eft ease by its wealthy and affluent inhabitants.
Monday came on a violent gale of wind here,
I which continued all the day and following night,
but we do not yet hear of any mifchief being done
at sea. It came 00 with the wind at East, but at
lait got to the N. W.
Within the last fourteen days past several parts of
wrecks have c»»ne on Ihere on the North lideof
these iflaads, fuppnfed to belong to fofne ship or
brig cast away on the rocks, and we fear tbe crew
f were h-11 loft.
Reported inwards and- outwards, blown off the
American coalt, in distress.
Sloop Betsey, John Dawkins, from Port-au-
Prince, bound far Phila3elphia.
Snow Industry, Timothy Ruflell, from St. Übes,
for Philadelphia.
'»
u New-Y»rk, January 31
ARRIVED. days.
K ShipTryal, Toby St. Thomas 11
Ii Schooner Two Brothers, O'Zuill Bermuda 9
9 Sloop Polly and Phefee, M'Caye Savannah —
Hannah, Smith St. Croix 13
ls CLEARED.
Ship Hope, Pierce Madeira
Letitia, Kofctte Bourdeaux
Sch oner George-Town, Tackell' Gearge-Town
IV Arrived yesterday morning the (hip Tryal. Captaia I
J Toby, ti days from St. Thomas'. Sailed in cflmpa
ny with the ship Hope, Capt. Sewall, of Boftoa, who
j. was captured aboutfour hours after leaving St. Tho
mas'by a French privateer row boat, mounting one
or two guns, and sent down to leeward.
d The fehooner Two Brothers, Capt. Zuill, arrived
ft yesterday morning, 9 days from Bermuda. The cap
-8 tain informs, that the Resolution 74, a frigate and the
Coop of war Lynx, lay there, and that the fehooner
William, and floap Polly, of this port, put in there
in. distress —the former of which was 40 days from
St. Bartholomew's —Several other vessels belonging to
S, different ports of the United States were blown off
the coast and put in there.
Sloop Hinnah, Capt. Smith, arrived yesterday in
r 13 days from St. Creix, was chafed on her pafiage from
J Antigua to St. Craix, into St. Bartholomews by a
j 6 French privateer.
•y ■
«"■ CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
:n
f~, house er representatives.
rn ' s
'i Monday, January 9, concluded.
On motion of Mr. Madifcn, the House Went in
to a committee ef the whole, on the report of the
*" secretary ef war, on the petition of M. Poira, fe
ut eretary and aid-de-camp to major-general La Fay
ette. Thf report was in his favor.
It appears that M. Poira followed the example
of general Fayette, in declining to riceive any pay
'I- for his services in the ceurfe of the late war ; but,
n > like his rnafter, having been overtaken by misfor
tune, he calls upon the equity and generosity of
the American nation 10 afford him relief, in the
«• fame manner as tbey had, miafked, requited the
lr . ferviees ef general La Fayettee.
a» Meflrs. Coit, Thatcher, and Kitchell, were op.
posed to the allowing of compensation to this gen
"lleman, alledging that his claim flood upon the fame
"y ground with the claims of many other deserving
»- men, whose demands had keen barred by the statute
tr of limitation.
or Meflrs. Madifen, W. Lyman, Swanwick, Day
ton and Mat ray, fupperted tbe cause of M. Peira.
They urged it is a finpita cafe. It was aflerted
that M. La Ffvcttff) and hi* family, were the only
persons who h»J fervfd in the wat, with a previous
profelTion that they would receive no pay. They
dei.ied that it was a claim of jufh-e; in that cafe
they allowed the ftatate of limitation would have
barred ii : I> was a claim upi>n the equity arid
generosity of the ion This gentleman, liK- his
mrifter, they said, had been ovettaken ! v i ale -
tune, and to reftife to afford him tint relief » oich
juftiee mud have paid him, had he alked it at »n
eailier day, would be derogatory to the honor of
the nation. Ii was remarked, by Mr. Swanwiek,
that such couduft was also impnlitir, since it would
difcotirage any foreigner from entering into our ser
vice in future, and wi did qot know how soon such
afliltauce might be valuable.
There is not, said Mr Murray, a farmer in the
United States, who would not approve the afford
ing of relief m rhu cafe | fitr, said he, who among
them of a young man, fend of agriculture, should
serve him faithfully for a yetr, and at the end of
that period, wiAiing to pursue his enquiries int®
distant lands, fheuld leave him, and decline to be
paid fer his services because he did net want the
■Honey, would, if that fame young man should re
turn in the course of a few years in distress and aflc
of his equity and generosity, what, before he could
have claimed of his justice, turn a deaf ear to him,
and fay, " I owe yen nothing j since you did not
receive your due when you might have had it, i
cannot listen to your distress." He believed no one
would be found to do this.
After considerable debate, the queSion was car
ried for making provision, by law, to fettle the
claim ; the committee rose, the bouse confirmed the
resolution ; and a committee was appointed to briar
in a bill.
Adjourned/
Tuesday, January to.
Mr. Dwight Falter, from the committee of
claims, made reports an the petitions of George
Lucas and Joha Wood, which were, again ft them
they were read twicc and concurred in by the
House.
Mr. Thatcher, from the Committee appointed
to enquire if any or what alterations were necessary
in the eftablifiimcnt of Poll Offices and Poll Rentis,
reported a bill, which was twice read, aud ordered
to be committed to a committee ef tbe whole oa
Monday.
O" motiea of Mr. Milleoge, the House refolytfd
itfelf into a committee of the while, oa the report
of the committee of claims oe the petition of John
Gibbons, treasurer of Geoigia. This report wts
against the petitioner.
After a long debate, the committee icfe and had
leave ta fit again.
Mr. Madifuo, from the committee to whom it
' was referred to bring in a bill for making provision
■ for the fatisfaAion of the claim of M. Poita, fecte
l*tj and aid de-camp of general La Fayette, re
ported a bill, which was twice read, and ordered ta
i be committed ta a committee ef the whole to-mer
, row.
Mr. Livingfton said he had a proposition to
t make relative to the communication yellerday re
ceived from the President of the United States,
f and therefore meved that the house and galleries
f might be cleared.
r They were cleared accordingly t and it being
i then half past two o'clock, it is supposed thehouie
after deciding as Mr. Livingfton'a proportion, ad
e jsurned.
College-Haii.
s > —
Readings and Recitatiohs,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
s. ""
ti On THURSDAY EVENING, Feb. a, at 7 o'clock,
9 By desire, will be repeated,
- THE EFFECTS OF ->MBITION AND GUILT,
13 Confidcrcd, traced and exemplified in the charadcr of
Macbeth.
ix With recitations of the striking scents, and moral
■n and critical observations an the character, and On the au
la ; thor
10 Warranted LikeneiTes,
3- Taken by WILLIAM WILLIAM'S.
lc Priceifrom 10 to 100 Dollars
A few young Ladiea may be inftru&ed in the elegant Art*
?d of Drawing and Painting, by applying to the abovi artist at
p. hit hoafe, the North Eait Coiner of Fourth and Pine Street* (
ac where specimens of his performance may be feena
cr Fcb - «• *3t.
r* " ~ ' * ' ■
m No. 170.
to DiJlr'tH 0/ Pennsylvania, ta •wit.
iff BE it remembered, that on the 24th day of January
in the twenty-fii ft year of of the United
in States of America, John Thontplbn of the said diftrift,
m hath deposited in this office the title of a Boole, the right
a whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following
to wit—
" A Comparative View of the Constitutions of the
— several States with each other, and with that of the
United States, exhibiting in tables the promiaent features
of each Constitution, and claffiqg together their mo ft
important provisions under the several heads of adminis
tration : with notes and observations. By Williarfi Smith,
of South-Carolina, 11. b. and member of theCongrefs
of the Uiiited States."
In conformity to the aft of the Congress as the United
n- States, intituled "An Aft for the encouragement of
be learning by securing the copies of maps, charts and books,
" t . to the authors and proprietors of such copies during th»
times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of theDiftrifl as Pennl'ylvaaia
>le Febi I. raw 3
Red Clover Seed.
>r- . —
0 f Fresh red Clever Seed of the best quality, in bags of
$ bushels each
, Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate uff
j TenerifFe wine in pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks
! Ditto do. of firft qijLlity, for the use of private
>p- I families
rn- ! Coffee in hogsheads
®e Jamaica spirits •
Connecticut soap in small boxes
Window glass and Spanilh fegars, and
Two trunks of best patent, plain and ribbed silk and
cotton hofierv, for file by
'J" JOHN CRAIG,
ra. February v wfffcmtfFor' Sale,
At the Office of she Editor of the Gazette of the
United States,
A FEW COP its OF
" An account of the Receipts and
JJxpenditures of the United State 9, for the year 1795,
January 28, 1797.
'LANDS FOR SALE.
TO be fora by Public Auction, on Wednesday the
ill day of February next, at the Merchant's
Coflee-houfe, in the city ef Philadelphia, at 6 o'clock
in the evening, sundry Tracts of Land, being part of
theeftate of Benjamin Town, late of Neyv-Jerfey, it-
CCaled, viz.—
Two tra&s, one of 315 1-4 and the other 302 1-4
acres, in the townihip of \Vyoming, county of Nor- -
thumbrrland, and state of Pennsylvania, conveyed by
deed, dated 27th September," 1782, from Aaroa Levy J
a;id wife, to Benjamin Town.
One trail 0/311 acres, on the divijjfOg of Mahoning (
and Fithing creeks, in the county aforefaid, granted to _
Benjamin Town, by Warrant, 28th February, 1775. ,
One tracfl of i'so icres, near or adjoining the Uft ,
mentioned tiaift, in the fame county, granted t® Ben- ;
jaminTown, by warrant, 2*Bth February, 1775. x
One traifl of 300 acres, on afmall branch of Jacob s ]
creek, in the eminty. of YVeftmoreland, ftateofPenn- 1
iylvania, conveyed by dsed, dated icth February,
j 782, by William Perry te Benjamin Town. I
Ten tracts of xooo acres each, »n the waters of :
Little Kenhawa river and Big Steer creek, in thecoun- '
ty of Mouongahalia, state of Virginia, per patent, dated
xoth July, 1786.
Further particulars and terms of payment will be
made known atthe time and place of Me.
JOHN FIELD, ? Trufteeß . 1
CURTIS CLAY, 5 I,UKee "-
Philadelphia, January 38, 1797* 4'
Notice to the Poor.
THE Guardians of th"e Poor will deliver bread to the
Poor of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia, on
Tuesday the 3ift-inftant, at Friends' Meetmg-houfe,
at the corntr of High and Second ftr*ets, between the
hours of ten and twelve, agreeably to the last Wjlls of
Jonathan Petty and William Carter, deceased.
January 28, 1797. 3 l
SWAN N'S
Riding School, ffprfe Academy £5* Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Stieet.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hrs Oncere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he ha* been employed, during his residence in this City, and
flatters himfelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he ha*s
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and recemmendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, ere&ed for the
purposes above described are opea for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who wish to betnftru6ted in the Art of Riding,
and the light method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expediiioufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are (hut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those betuties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully bestowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the hqrfe is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the v above inftiuition has never bcenqneftion
«d, that it has long been wanted in this gentleman's 1
stud will manife-ft, and' T..S«u«n as the eftabiifher of j
the veterenary art, solicits and lelies upon the fuppoit of that j
public (which he wever anxious in serving) to enable him to J
wing it to perfection. The idea of a fubferiptioh for that
purpose has beeu hinted by teveral gentleman, who wilh to
promote the inftitutioo - the'amount of each fubloripfion to
be returned by services in any of the deo-rtments he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of chargcs Hated in nis hanjd bill. Sach
flibfcription is noiiv open, and the signatures of many refpeft
abte gentlemen already obtained. He therdore mjorms his
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he PnaD in a few days take
the libertv of waiting upon them and foUckmg their support
and'proteftion.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for thofs Ladies and
Centlemenwho wiflito. be inftru£led.
Nov. .5; tth'&f.
New-Theatre.
THE Managers, (who have been accaftomed uniform
ly to,c»nfult and adopt the public •pinion, as well
from motives of gratitude as inetereft) underlland that it
is'generally thought that the price of admifiion into the
PIT, has been raised difprbportionally to the prices of ad
million into the other parts of the Theatre, and therefore
do not htfitate to reduce the price of a Pit ticket to seven
eighths of a dollar.
It is not to be concealed, however, that in making this
facrifice, the Managers risk considerable' pecuniary em
barrassments ; but it is foir.e Cord'olation that while they ac.
cede to the present redu<fti»n,. they have reason to believe
tkemfelves juftified by the prevailing sentiments, in con
tinuing the advanced price of the box tickets,
•which-it would indeed be impracticable to conduit the en
tertainments of the Theatre on a scale adequate to the
public e.xpe<sation, and cotmftent with their ideas of duty
and refpeift to a community »n whose liberality they mull
ever depend, and by whose taste they are proved to be re
gulated. x January 30 3t
r™r " '
IV A NT S A P L MCE,
A YOUNG MAN from England—Has lived as a Ser
vant, can shaVe aad dress hair in a plain way ; would
Ibave no objection to go to illy part of the world. He
speaks ihree languages: would engage in any other em
ployment he might be enpableof. A line leit at No. 69
south Front-ftrest, cr with the Printer, will be duly at
tended to. > January 30 Jt
PRINTERS
Who have iiiferted Advertisements at the request of the
Editor of this Paper, atedefiredto forward their accounts.
Jannary 30
WATCH LOST.
LOST, on monday last, a filvei makers'
names, " Hauxhnrft and Dotllt, New-Yoik, 809",
on the face, hour-hand in a small circle ; the minute-hand
revolving iti a larger. Whoever has found, and will re
turn the fame to James Edger, corner of Second and
Catherine Streetss fhatl receive 10 Dollars reward. If of
fered for sale itis requested it may be stopped.
January 30 "4 1
NOTE FOUND.
Q< ome time back was found a Note ef mr Johr. Nichol
- O son, ill favci- of , and itidorfed by . The
ewner, deferring the amount, &c may have it again by
the ex per. ft of this advertisement. Apply to
' J * JOHN FLINT,
Ceachmsker, Ho HO Arch-Street.
January JO 13 C
A Quantify of Brandy,
FIRST &'id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in piprs
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Ilhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each -
GlafsTumMern, in pints and halt-pints'
in boxes, di difFsrent lizes
Haz'enuts, ui sacks
Whiting
C°PF e 'f ,C in hhd. '
» VVhire Lead y
k Spapilh Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
Houses and Lots for sale,
BY* the Subscriber, in the t®wn of West-Chester, Ches
ter county, 25 miles fr6m Philadelphia, on the great .
state-road, leading Westward- Vi 2. No. r. AiWo-ttory
Stone House, the corner'of High and Gay streets, 40 feet
front by. 34feet deep, including a very convenient ilore
houfe . the House contains ten wt II tiniflied rooms, a-kit
chen and entry : the Lot is, 144 lecc front on Gay-street,
—equal to any stand in W«il-Chefter. No. 2. A two-sto
ry stone house adjoining, 27 feet front, containing eleven
wcll-finifhed rooms, both ceiled in the garrets, house
and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c.—•cllars
under both Kouies, with good stables on thfc lots. These c
Houfee are almost new, done by good workmen, in a
masterly manner. No. 3. a Lot 42 feet front. No. 4,
34 feet. No- 5, 44 feet. No. 6, 129 feet, all of them
ten rods deep. On two of the ibove are ere&ed three log
and trame houfes,,two stories high, cellars under the
whole, and a Cmall liable to each-
The above Lots are situated near the Court-Houfe. The
whole will be ejpofed to PUBLIC SALE, m the 21ftand j
aad days of February next, at two o'clock, when the con- (
ditions will be made known PolTcflion may be had the
firft of April next. The Title is indisputable.
JOHN KINNARD.
January tS * .
Brokers Ofhce, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third fkeet-eppofite tile national new Bank; '
SAMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN IiEED, \
have entered into ce-partnerfhip, ( under the firm of
FROUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, '
Con»ey«ncersand Commiifion merchants. They buy and
fell on cominifiion every ipecies of stock, notes of hand, '
bills of exchange, houfrs and lands, &c.
Monty procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds of
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnel'sand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
moil correit manner. Cosilant attendance will be given.
They solicit a fliare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utr.ioft secrecy obfcrved.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Fhflad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf
For Sale
By private conh uS, a -very valuable EJlate, known by
the name ef
C H A T H A M,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank of Rap
pahanock river, opposite the town of Fredcnckfburg, in
the state of Virginia, coafifting of eleven or fifteen hun
' dred acres, as may befi: suit the pstchafer. There is on
this estate, a large and well built brick house, containng
nine commodious rooms, exclttfiveof a spacious htll or en
try, 21 feet square, two pair of stairs, suitable and conven
ient piffages, and excellent dry celiara It ii placcd on a
fine he-lthy eminence, commanding) beautiful views in
every direilion over the towns of Frederickfburgh and
Falmouth, and an cxtenfive ctdtr/ated country—The
grounds adjoining the house arc Tieatly laid out in pleas
' ure snd kitchen gardens interspersed with a variety of |
i fearce trees, a choice colleiSiion of fiow.crs and flowering j
! Ihrubs, and enriched by varioos forts of the following
I fruits, viz apples, pears, wilnuts, chefnuts, eheri(es,ppach
i es,plHmbs, neiftarines, apricots, grapes, figs, ralberries,
gooseberries, ftravvherries, and currants; the whale admi
\ rably varied by turfed slopes which have been formed hy
I great labour and expence. Bordering upen these im
provements, are several lots, in a highilate of cultivation,
and well set with red clover and orchard grass, from '
which threeheavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent therete are two iarge and flourilhing orchards; one !
of well chosen peach trees, the other of apple and pear- i
trees, feleSedfrom the best nurseries in the ilale. Pro- j
perly detached from the mansion house are extensive |
roomy office* of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and ,
Larder,houfe-keeper's r®om and Laundry, wi'h a cellar
underneath for a variety of purposes, a store-house and J
smoke house all of brick, a dairy and spring house of ftonc.
Stables for thirty horses, and coach houses for four car
riages. Also a large and well planned farm yard, v ith
barn andgranary, a cow house, with separate lulls tor
thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fatten in 5 veaU.'
muttoni and lambs ; exteniive Iheds for sheep, and other
arrangements for stock of every description, with a large
and convenient receptable for provender, from which they
can be furnilhed without being exposed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's shop,
* and quarters fiifficient to in the best man- j
ner more than fifty lahourers.
The arable hnds are it advantageously divided as to as- |
ford an opportunity of making a. large quantity of Indian
corn anHually, without bringing the field into similar cul
ture oftner than once in four years; confequcntly the
lands may be inip.rovsd by keeping up the inclofuresduring
the intermediate years, or may be beneficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option of tile proprietor.
On the prcmifes there is also a merchant mill with one
pair orbeft French burr stones, and one pair of Cologne;
furniftied with modern machinery,and now leafed for the
unexpired term ot four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
grain for the use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly I 001. more. Fhs mill and miller's house are built of
free stone, within a very small distance of navigation,near
to which are two or more valuable tilhcries, and a well
accustomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
Frederickfburg. I'lie land con tains inexhaustible quarries
of free stone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water and pofleffes a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be ccmuderably increased. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel and sociable. Infadt, exclufivcof
an improvable and 'well conditioned farm, the value and
emolument inseparably conn.eclcd wit. 11 a mill, ferries,
fifteries and quarries eligibly situated ; the prefits anting
from an ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a*gur
den ef four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetables
of jail forts as to be fully equal to the demand in market,
there might be detailed many other advantage?,
tiining to the fertility of these lands, which the fubicriber
conceives it unnecessary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, 'it will be found to be a complete,
pleasant and healthy , residence, poffefihig beauties and
conveniences fiifficient to attract the attention of any per
son desirous of becoming a purchaf?r.
The motive which induces the fnbfcriber to offer for
sale an estate so Angularly beautiful and advantageous, is
* desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria,' where he
can with more ease attend to his interests in the neigh
bourhood ofthat city
The purchaser may W accommodated with a few slaves
in families, either for plantation or domestic use. A part
of the purchalc money will be required and the balance
made easy, the debt being properly secured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
Chatham, (Virg.) Dec. 19, 1796. xith—jaw2m.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery. >
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64, *
South Sccond-flrcct., - S
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raifiog Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an A6l w j
the flaturc of Permfylvaaia, patted during the
fcflion, for building a Sioric Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, v at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Hollars.
1 Prize of 20,000 D - 20,00^
1 do. of i&toO9 do. - - i©,o«#o
3 do. of 5»ooo do. - 15,000
4 do. of 2»ooo do. - 8,000
20 do. of t,ooo do. ... 20,000
Q9 do.- of 500 do. 1
80 do. Or 200 do. - - - 16,000
sqo do. of 100 do. - - 20,000
300 do. of 50 do. * isjOo©
1 do. of 500 ao. to be paid the pofTef- > Q r
for f the firft: drawn no. > * 1
, 5 do* of 3, ©00 do. to be paid poffeflors > C
, of the five last drawn nos) **' t
9,400 do. o 15 do. / * 141,000 £
—————— 1
10,054 Prises 300,000 a
19,946 Blanks — a
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000 1
Afl Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after tut drawing is c
tiniihed, upon the demand of a polTeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjftl to a dedu&ion of twenty per cent. The l
Drawing will Commence as foonas the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps fo<iner. of which public notice will be given, i -
Philip Miller, Petar Kerjhner, li'illium IV'ttman,
Joseph Htefter, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
jpamer May, John Olio, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissionsrs. ,
Reading, May the $th,,i796
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. », to be had at the J
above office, where t?.-2 earli«ft information of the draw
ing of the Washington No. a, and Patterfcn Lottery's,
are'received, and check bauks for examination and. regif
tering are kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery te be had at Mr, Sheri
dan's Race-street, John Hay, N,ortii Third-ftrect and
Henry Sw;yer'e, German Town.
January 26 aawtf
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scoua Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smcaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Dftto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine arid «oarfe Salt ' ,
Nova-Scotia and French Pkfter of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December I
CAMILL A,
Or A Pi dure of Youth.
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable
on delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
Bull.
CONDITIONS.
I. Handfeme, neat type, perfect!) new, is em
ployed. ,
11. A volume, stitched i» blue paper, is intended
to be published every i weeks, till the five are conv
tmj fii ft and Icrcnci arc comc to hand, and ilic~
' third is hourly expetSled. Subscriptions are received,
and Bocpks may be had of J. ORMROD, No. 41,
Chefnut-flrect-
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Btirney) the celebrated
authoress o'f this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the laurels she has already acquire*' in the
literary world. The ltrength of imagination and ele
gance of style, diiplayed in Evelina and Cecilia, will
I i-tiSciently lecommend to every reader of taste and
judgmsHt, the peiul'al of Camilla.
j It may not be improper to add, that the Queen of
I England, after having perused this interesting publi-
I cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thousand
1 pounds sterling, as a testimony of her approbation of
1 the worly.
fanuory 2? eotf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sals—a
Check Book for examination— -and prizes paid in
she late lottery.
K'Check Books kept for examination and rr giftering, for
; the Citv of Wafliington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries
I 60th of -which are now drawings-information -rrnstc
I tickets'are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
I tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in thf-late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public Scho.pl'Lottcry, for
examination.
The fuWcriber solicits the application of tiie public
and his friends, who wish to pwrefiafe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on depofic of property.
\* ALso Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollars each, will be drawn early ill
the Spring,
W/h. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 26, 1797. roth
This Day is Published,
By BIOREN'd MADAN, at their Printing Office,
No. 77, Dock-street, and fald by the principal
Booksellers in this City.
The American Annual Register ;
Or historical Me noir» of. the United States, for the
Year 1796.
No. 167. —
DtJlriS of Ptnnfylvania, to wit :
Be it remembered, that on the 19th day of Januai y
in the Twenty-firft year of the Independence of the
United States of America, Bioren & Madan of the laid
1 ,liana 'nave deposed in this Office the title of a Book
the Right whereof they claim as Proprietor® in the
words fallowing te wit: • .
•1 The American Annual Register, or Hiltorieal
; " Memoirs of the United "States, for the year 1796.
In qonfortnity to the a<ft of the Congref3 of the |
United States- entituled « An a<ft for the encourage
ment of learning by securing the copies of Maps,
s Charts and Books, to the authors and proprietors of
. fuck copies during the time therein mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell,
Clerk Peuulylvania DiflriiX.
s January 25. iaw4
t
Elegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. Third-street.
December 'ij, dtf
A Manufactory. FOR SAI V
A valuable SOAP and CANDLF. Mnnuhao fit„ .
in part of the city ; the works a Iff oft <\ w •
on an entirely orig'r.al conftrii£tioa, and built o \eft
materia!s, and may be (et tq work immediately. J ux#
who wiHi to purchase, are requeued to 3 pply
South Second Street. September 13. t : 1 ti
This Day is Puoiifhed,
Br 810 REN AND MA DA A
And to be Sold at their Printing-Office, i .
ftrett ; by M. Carey, No. 118, Mirki - tc'
1 homa* Bradford, Mo. 8, South Frout-ftr - > aa-*
George Douglaft, Ko. i, S®t»h Third-Hr
(Vrio_c_ x bound, two dollars)
AN Y
Concerning Political Jvstici
if,■
THE reputation of this w«rk i« already v ell e
blifhed in is hardly neceflary for in Ai u
rican editor to fay more than barely to mention, t , t
the Enquiry concerning Political Juftiee J ev
since its publication been a favorite perforiflahr 1; ,
the friends of republican' government. The • ■»
pure, nerrons, and classical; the ideas are ftrongi;;
m**-ked by an original vein of thinking; and, amongit
a multitude of other just and striking pafiages, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities insepa
rable from the condition of a King, may be pointed
out a» a most masterly specimen of philosophical dif
quifi)ion. '1 he Jatelt London edition of this work.
fells in' this cify at four dollars and an half.
January 44 djtawavr
Porcupine's Gazette.
Propofafs by WILLI,4M COBBETT, opposite Christ
Church, Philadelphia, for publi.hing a-nejvs-paper,
to be entitled
Porcupine's Gazette, £s° Daily Ad-vertifer.
Methinks 1 hear the reader exclaim ; " What! hae
we not Gazettes enough already Yes, and ;ar two \
many: but thole that wfchavc, are, in general, con*
di/sled in such a manner that their great number, in-'
! stead of rendering mine uniieceflary, i. the only cauf: /
that oslls for its '■ftablifhmen!.
The gazettes in this country liave Sone it more real in
jury than all its open enemies ev.e.r did or can do. t Sivy- /
mdlead the people at home and nirfrcpreleift ItKr.ija
hroad. It was these vehicles oi fed'ition and dif;'dfc.i
that encouraged the counties in'the Weir to rebel; %
was they that gave rile to the depredation" <if iiritdtji,
by exciting the people to such acts of violence aga,:..f
that nation, as left no room to deubt that we were c.V:'
termined on war ; and it was they, when an ai cotn- . f
modationhad been happily effciled, that stirred up ant*
oppbfition to,it such as has seldom been witneiied, and
which wasjovercome by mere cbs«ce.'' These gazettes
it was, that, by misrepresenting the difpofitio;:s r . the
people, encouraged the French to proceed , u\. one
degree of infolenae to another, "till at iaft their Mr,lif
ter braves the President in his chair, aud a bullying 1.
comraandtr comes and tells us that his onl; bufinels is ' v
to seize our velfels, in violation of a treaty, ;n virtue
ot whieh alone he claims a right to enter oui pons : and
it'.'u thele gazettes that slow have the impudence o) e
fend what their falfehocd and malice have produce.! ,
I shall be told that the people are to blame ; n%t
they are hot obliged to read these abominable publica
tions. But they do read them; and tho-f-; vhs
read them, read nothing else. To fupprels uj«- .
poflible ; they will vomit forth their poifot t .
vilegeof then} natures, that no law can » \i
therefore the only mode left 16, to counters: it's t cis.
Th;« .nuft bi uune, {.voi irrtKeirowri way l!o : ,
or periodical publications in the form'of ho*
be of some ferviee, but are by 110 means .. -s^.
their flying folios. A. falfebood that resaa.. . .
didled for a month, begins to be looked upon as a truth,
and \khen the detection at last makes its appearanc •, it
is often as ufclefs as that of the do£tor who finds hit
patient expired. The only method of opposition, then,
is to meet them on their own ground ; to set foot to
foot ; dispute every inch and every hair's breadth;
fight them at their own weapons, and return them two
blows for one* - _ ~
Agazetteof this llatr.p is what I have lonj :bH
ffe, but I have wtfhetl and *xp(t&cd it in vai
nation at the fupinenefs of others has at 'la
better of ail diffidence in my own capacity, ;
termined ine to encounter the talk. People
one fide long enough ; they (hail now hear t t
CONDITIONS.
i. Porcupine's Gazette shall be of the 1
and the fubfeription Eight Dollars a year, to be paid at
the expiration «f ea,-h half year.
a. Advertisements Svill be inserted at half the ufinl
price, which will always be required in ready money.
3. The Ctfnfor, containing those pieces trom tha
gazette that may appear worth preserving in « aiore •
2ai'table form, .wuii such aniplnitJ.ii,ons ind ariiend
m..nts as time may .give rife -to, "flaH 'Be 'puKßwc3
momh'.y, and each fuhferiber (hall be entitled to a copy,
delivered with his paper at the end ot themon'h,
4. If a fufficient nfumber of fubferibers be obtained
the firft number of the Gazette Ihall appear on, or be
fore the jih of March.
N. B. A fubfeription book is now open atVnyfhop,
opposite Christ-church, whither gentlenisnin the coun
try, who wilh to fubferibe, are requeftedto fend their
names.
Subscriptions are taken at Botlon by Mr. James y v hltc,
bookseller ; at Salem, by Mr. Dcbeuy, peft-maiVer i
at Nev»-Havcn by Mr. Beers, bookseller ; at Newbu
ry.port, by Mr. E. Blwnt, bookseller ; at Ne a-York,
,by Mr. S. Campbell, bookseller ; at Baltimore, by Mr.
G. Hill, bookseller j at Ghefter-town, Maryland, by
Mr. James Arthur, poft-malter ; at Eaftsu, do. by
>;». Greenbury Neal; at Frederxk-town, do. by
Meflfrs. Isaac and John Mentz; at Richmond, Virg.
by Meflrs. Pritchard and Bavidfon ; at Norfolk, by
MefTrs. Rainbow and Hannah ; and at Charlellon, by
Mr. Young, bookseller. ( •
Jtri. »8. eotrt.
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
"No. 79, Market-striset, Phimdsiphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, » Urge alTortmelit fVA RRAj\ ft D
IVA-I CUES, eenliitmg of horizontal, capp'd and
1 jewel'd Gold Watches, with l'er.ouds, of foperior
workmanftiip and elegance ; also eapp'd and jewel'd
j atid plain Gold Watches ; cipp'd St jcwell'd, capp'd f
. seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Watches ;
! eight day & chamber Clocks ; elegant French Clocks
f v.'ith marble frames; eight day and thirty hoar, brafi
works, kc.
Decembet 32, 1796. " <i»ro
— ■■ "» '■ r I'A-k.,
PRINTED BY JOHN
—No. 119 —
: CHKSNUT-STHEET.
Eight Dollar* p«r Atmtiau]