of the tßUttrtl Jltf&ttS, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
' '' • ■•' '' V ' '" ' -' ' .V' *•& ' /' ' '■ ' £ *• •' * ' -V Y '
Number 1387.] ? FRIDAT EVENING, FEBRUARr 17, i 79 7. {Vclvme XI.
For Freight or Charter,
QHE is a good vessel, fails fact, carries
~ O about 50a barrels, and will take in
Freight to proceed Coaflwifc, or for the Weft Indies.
For terms apply to Siawaed, mailer, on
board, at Arch-flreet wharf, or to
ISAAC HARVEY, Jun,
No. 5 South Water.ftrect.
febimiy 14
ro* SALI, ON BOAR* SAID VESSEL,
A few coils Cordage,
CANDLES, and
SHOES.
For Hamburgh,
The si. e fatt-failing ship
Jnhn Thompson, Majler,
j"UST coppered, "snd in complete order, and it uow loading.
A conhderablc part of her cargo is engaged, has good accom
modations for paflengers, and intended to fail in the cdurfe
of this month.—Far freight or passage, apply to the Mailer
on board, at Bright's wharf, or to
JEREMIAH WARDER,
No. ix nerth Third street.
February i$ mw&fiw
For Amsterdam,
1 4F~lfir The faft-faiiing cedar and live oak
ship Amiable,
Igffi' D. C. Tillinjhafi, Mnjier,
JUST graved and in compleat order, and is now ta
king in, and intended to fail in all this month, a great
pf.rt of her cargo being ready to go on board, has good
accommodations for paflengers For freight or pafljge
_-falter, on b >»rd, at bright's wharf,
cr to
JEREMIAH WARDER,
No. 12 South Third ftreef.
February is mw&ffaw
CUSTOM-HOUSE, February i 3> i^7~
Sales at Auction
AT the Custom House, on Monday next, the xotk in
stant, at it o'clock, for payment of duties, having
remained in the (lores beyond the time limited by law, the
following goods : viz.
I H A tub of Brass Kettles
T H I Seven boxes different fpecimcns of Minerals
One box Playing Cards
P S One ditto Paper
TC
I & 2k Two boxes Pamphlets
W B Three casks Wine
A box Mill Saws
I M Six poekets Cctton
I C M One box Pamphlets
I§T I a 3 Three boxes Books
W r M 1 & 2 Tfo boxes ditto
T D 20$ One bale Girth Webb
One box Pamphlets
T W One cafe Woman's Silk Shoes
One chefl containing Cloth
M § R No. 4 One trunk Worsted TaflTels
One bundle supple jack Canes
One box Candles
One ditto Sonj> '
Two llnall boxes Linens
The Goods may be viewed at any time in the morning
of the day of sale. (Signed) SHARP DEL ANT,
Fetqyary 14 stw Co lienor.
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of poster,
drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five raiies an honr, and is the greatert curiosity
ever brought to this Comment.
He is to be fren 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the farmer price of half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 d
Tor sale, sr * ;
Philip Nicklin & Co.
I'ssr - }
17 Tubs Quicksilver
2 Chests B:indanno HandkercHefs
A few chests Manchcfter Goods, wfll afiorted in Cor
duroys, Thicksets, Ginghams, Mufltnets, Dimities, &c.
3 Trunks black Sewing Silk
180 Crate* Qneen's Waie, well affortrd
10 Tons Sheet Lead
Nails assorted flat and sharp points
London Partinlar > Madeira wine in pipes and hogs- t
India Market J heads ,
40 Fipe= and 10 Hogsheads Tenerifife Wine
10 Hogsheads choice Port Wine
7 Tierces Snake-Root
26 Casks yellow Paint
9 Box js and 12 Bundles writing Slates r
1 Box Ink Stands and Note Prelies
14 Bales Sail Canvass alTorted, No. I to 8 i'
February 11. mw&fjtf i:
- ■ —; 1
A Quantity of brandy, f
FIRST Jk. ad proof,
Gin, of 4th preof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting
wEKUi £ «w
ic Spanish Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 j
RICE. J
180 Tierces Rice for Sale by
Samuel Breck, Jun. v
No. 89 South Third Street a
likewise, • si
15 or so Pockets COTTON, and e
A Quantity 1 H. SHERRY WINE, v
40 C,fes SWEET OIL, &e. Ac. v
JVbma.y 11 t&th6t
For Sfile,
At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
United States,
A few coriFS OF
'f 5 " An account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States, for the year 179?-"
on ivir. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Publiftied, <
AND FOR SALE BT THE EDITOR,
Price three eights of a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinck
ney, Minister Plcnipotenaary of the United States, to
the French Republic. February 9. 6t
- Red Clover Seed.
Fresh red Claver Seed of the best quality, in bags of
5 bushels each
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe wine in pipes, hogfteads and quarter casks
Ditto do. of firfl quality, for the use of private
ig. families
m - Ceffee in hogsheads
rfe Jamaica spirits
lcr Conne<slicut soap in small boxes
Window glass and Spanish fegars, and
Two tr inks of best patent, plain and ribbed silk and
cotton hosiery, for sale bv
JOHN CRAIG.
February 1. wff&mtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST, I
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentifl to the
ta- King and Royal Family of France, member or the
;at College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
od Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing necefiary ]
ig*. to be used forthe
rf, Prefervaticm of rhe Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ; j
Dentrifice iH powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
'• sweetening the mouth and preserving" the tc.:h—he \
alio furnifhes Brushes and foft Sponges. 1
*»* He lives in Chefnut-flreet, No. 135, abeve t
Fourth-street. ' i
November 16. tts t
in " L~AN~D~I~N~G,
he A T Walnut-street wharf, from on board the ship Peg- j
nc ■ A gy. captain Elliott, from Bourdca-jx, 1
VIN DE GRAVE, or White Claret, in Hhds and Or. t
Casks t
RED CLARET, in Hhtls v
Ditto in cases of 24 and 30 bottles each fc
Green and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chefcs t
For fate by t
Rundle Ss 5 Leech, r
Nn. 9 Walnut.street. c
Febrtrairy 6 mwftf v
1 - # -j : il
Davis's Law Book-store §
No. jp 3 , HIGH-STREET. t(
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his Droiefiionsl friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the C
Uuion, that his late importation of BUQKS is now
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volwme to an entire li- P
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding ion
prices, which tor (everal years part have id To diliinguiThed a
manner «ecommended rhemto notice-
Printed Catalogues combining the mwft extenfivc colJec- tl
don cf the latest Englith and Irilti Editions ever importer* ti
into this country, are p«bii{hedj and will be delivered r<
00 application.
Orders addrefied to G. D. in writing from any diftancc
rhail be pun&ually attended to. v
A number of 1 RUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient.LOFT, near Market Street Wharf; °
d or.S. tu&fgw b
Washington Lottery. . a
>f TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chcfnut- " is
rrcet, where a corre<& Numerical Book is kept for puMk p
e infpexftion. Also Caaai Lottery Tickets for sale or ex- is
y changed for prizes d» aws in the Washington Lottery, ol fc
which the 60th and 61ft days returns received. ti
n Bufincfs of a Broker carried on as usual. bi
t t J-nuary 12. ttstf
n ~ To the Benevolent. t
PHE Snbfcriber having rented that well known tav- i h<
r j- ern house, on Silver Springs, Cum 1 erland county, te
on the great road leading from Philadelphia to Fort Pitt, 01
which he had completely furnifhed for the accommodation !
of travellers, but wfcich unfortunately, by accident caught I
ire about » o'clock ia the morning, the 3d of Noveiii- I ai
her Jan, and in the space ef < ne hour was totally, confum- 1 tb
ea with all thejurniture, wearing apparel, flores of li
(juor.. Sec. to a very large amount, attended with the..-.- n ,
lancholy loss of a daughter about twelve year? of age !
only furviveda few hours after the fire ; his wi-'e al- !
_ disabled ; and others of his family much hurt ;heis g '
now reduced to an Unhappy and deiHuite fitua ion—he 1
therefore begs leavt to felicit some relief from a gen.rous "
public, she following gentlemen are pleased to undertake
the trouble to receive lubfcriptions for his benefit: viz.
Samuel Richardet, Merchants' Coffee-Houfe ; James
. 1 nompfon, Indian Queen ; Geergc Irwin, Cross Keys, in
t Fourth-street, and John Dunwoody, Spread Eagle, High- to
DAVID BRIGGS. j
Philadelphia, February 14 tth&ft.M3 '°f
The other Printers are rcq>:»(led to publish the above. ! tr
<£- NOTICE. j nj
Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the h
North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised \ J
in the frveral public papers, will commence this even- ! *"
ing, attheCity Tavern to be continued from day P
to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not sooner rj
fold.
lanuary 4 .
A PARCEL OF VERY FIVE M
St. Croix Sugars and Rum, pj
JAMAICA SPIRITS, and M
LAGUIRA HIDES,
For Sale by
Feb. y.—§iw JAMES TARD.
Clocks and Watches. £
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, Market- street, Philadelphia, so
HAVE IMPOR TED, by the late arrivals from ta
London, 1 large afTortment of WARRANTED -
IVA 1 CHES, eonfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with seconds, of superior
work ma n ship and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
ieconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watt lies ;
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks 6
with marble frajnes ; eight day and thirty hour, brai's te
works, kc.
Decembet 22, 1796. dam
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
e Roots, hjt. &C.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
1 And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Stcond-ftreets,
A most Capital and sxtpifivc /ijfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which a r«,
Fire kinds .A/paragus! Three kinds Cresses
° four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-ive Beans! Thirteen Radidi
Six Beet? fifteen Turnip
Elevea Brocoli Fifteen Peas
>f | Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
i s Carrot Four Parsnip
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Fi ve Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
e Ten Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Cirlsd leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Karygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
„ Let Kail Shallots
, Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucernc
Red and wlite Clover - Timothy, &c. icc.
With a curiius collection of the most esteemed
FLOWIR-SfiEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most atenfive ever imported into this city.
The above are fran a capital Seedlman iu Londsn, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed cataloguesmay be had by applying as above,
e Dec. 17 5
Porcupine's Gazette.
y PropofaU by WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite Christ
Church, Philadelphia, for publilhing a news-paper,
to be entitled _
; Porcupine's Gazette, Ess Daily Advertiser.
t Meihinks 1 hear the reader exclaim ; " What! have
e we hot Gazettes enough already Yes, and far t»o
many: but thofc thnt we have< are, in general, con
e duflti in such a m.waer that their great number, in
-Uead if rendering mine unneceflary, it the only cause
that cdls fur its eftablilbmen:.
The gazettes 111 this couatry haw done.it more re.ll io
;- jury tiian all its open enemies ever did or can do. They
mi lie ad the people at home and misrepresent them a
r. broad, It was these vehicles of sedition and difcoi'd
that encouraged the counties in the Weft to rebel ; it
was tiey that gave rife to the depredations of Britain,
by exciting the people to such adts of. violence againll
that nation, as left no room to deubt that we were d -
termis J on war ; and it was they, when an accom
modation had been happily efkfled, that stirred Hp an
oppoHtion to it such as has seldom been wim tiled, and
whictrwas overcome by mere chance. These gazettes
- it was, that, by misrepresenting the dispositions of the
peoplt, encouraged the* French to proteed from one
degree of infsleuce to another, 'till at last their Minis
ter- braves the President in his chair, and a bullying
£ commander comes and ufls us that his only business is
to seize our velTcls, in violation of a treaty, in virtue
. ot which alone lie claims a right to enter our ports: and
it .0 the e gazette* that now have the impudence to e
-1 tena what their lalfehood and malice have produced.
1 lhall be told that the people are to blame; that
they are not obliged to read these abominable publica
tions. Bst they do read them; and thousands who
read them, read nothing else. To lupprefsthem is lm
poifiUle ; th;y will vomit forth their poison j it is a prU
vilege of the;r natures, that no law can abridge ; and
thersiare theonly mode left is, to counten<sl its effects.
1 his mull be done, too, in their own way. Books,
or periodical publications in the form of books, may
be of foms service, but are by no means a match for
their flying fplios. A fallebood that remains uncontra
dicted for a month, begins to be looked upon as a truth,
. and when the cleteiSion at laA makes its appearance, it
is often as ufeiefi as that of the do£lor who finds his
patient expired. The only method of opposition, then,
■ is to ra;«i them their own ground ;to set foot to
I foot; dispute every inch and every hair's breadth;
fight them at their own weapons, and return them two
blows for one - "
A gazette of this Jsmn is what I have long wilhed to
fee, but I have wiihed and sxpsisied it in vain. Indig-
I nation at the fupinenefs of others has at last got the
better of ail diffidence in my own capacity, and has dc
, ' termined me to encounter the taflc People have heard
, one fide long enough ; they (hall now hear the other.
1 | CONDITIONS.
I. Porcupine'n Gsrcitc ft«U be of the usual size,
' and the fubfeription Eight Dollars a year, to be paid at
■ | the expiration ef ea.-h half year.
1. AdvertisementS will be.iiiferted at half the usual '
price, which will always be required in ready money.
> ; 3. The Cenfur, containing those pieces from the
gazette that may appear worth preserving in a more
' portable form, with such amplifications and amend
ments as time may rife to, lhall be publilhed
' month y, and each fublcriber (hallbe entitled to a co£y,
delivered with his paper at the end oT the month,
4. If a fufficient number of fubferibers be obtained
the firft number of the Gazette (hall appear on, or be
fore the sth of March.
i N. B. A fubfeription book is bow open at my Jhop,
! oppolite Christ-church, whither gentlemen in the coun
try, who wish to fubferibe, are requeftedto fend their
I names.
Subicriptions are taken at Botlon by Mr. James White,
bookseller ; at Salem, by Mr. Debeny, post-master ;
j at; New-Haven by Mr. Beers, bookseller ; at Newbu
ry.port. by Mr. £. Blunt, bookfelleV; at Ne .v-York,
by Mr. ■ S. Campbell, bookseller ; at Baltimore, by Mr.
G. Hill, bookseller; at Chester-town, Maryland, by
Mr James Arthur, post-master; at Eafton, do. by
y.rj Greenburv Neal; at Freder ck-town, do. by
1 Mefiirs. Isaac and John Mentz ; 2t Richmond, Virg.
by Melfrs. Pritcbard and David Ton ; at Norfolk, by
MelTrs. Rainbow and Hannah ; and at Charlelton, by
Mr. Young, bookseller.
Jan. 18. mwfto'.
A convenient stable
Sitbated in Laurel Court—l Stalls therein to be rent
ed, with the privilege of uiing the Hay-Loft.
Eight years of the time of service of zNEGRO MAN
for sale. He is accaftomed to house work, and capable of
taking care of Horses. Enquire of the Primer.
February 11 ft thtf
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Diredtorsth'6 day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars on each lhare was declared for the last
6 months, which will be paid to'the Stockholders af
ter the inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafiiier.
J*n- ?• dtf.
u
Mas. GR A T-TA N
Refpe£l fully informs her friends, anil the public in
genera,, that en Tuesday the icthd.iy <>f January,
(he p"«pofcs opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftreet,
' A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Mullins, from 6yj to i ifii per yard
Jaconet ciitto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Srnped ditto, from 7fio tu isfiO per yard
'» Fine Coflaes
Fambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9,10. 11/ per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
11 Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, frem 4/3 to 6/* per hdkf.
li Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to jef6 per hdkf.
p Mu£in color*d and borderM Handkerchicis
s Dacca Handkerchiefs
y Tambeur'd Cravats from iq/8 to 11/11
p Pocket Handkerchiefs
n Cambric, from ijA to Iper yard
e Table Clotks
Huekabuck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from to 13/"per pair
Dimity from 5/10 to 6/ii
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd ruuflin Handkerchiefs from ii/ii to isfi
Iriih linens for Gentleir en's Shirts, from to 5j j
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, Stc. &c.
Houfhold Linen, &c &c.
i A plain shirt, made and markM, 3 1-2 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and raark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled itto 6 dollars'
A plain shirt, made and marked, £ 1-2 dollars.
A >ul ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 71 2.
' A plain ihirt made and mark'd, 6 1-4-dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto ITiltfllars.
Linen included. f
e January 13. ' §
3.—«■ . ■ ■ .
- 'Penn-fyivania Population Company.
■ "VTOTtCE is hereby givon, to such Share-hoMcrs at
e IN as hav* not paid their affeflmeuts on tKeirlhar-s—to
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of th Compa
ny, at the Company's Office, N0.53 north Four ih-fireeft,
f Philadelphia. J'hcy are further informed, that in default
. of paying the fame within thirty day- from the 4-h < f Fe
-1 bniary, inftanr, the forfeitures will bii flriiSlly ex
t a&ed, in conformity tothc lift article of affectation.
By order of the Board,
[ SOL. MARACHE, Secretary*
. Feh 1. <s^o
; Mahogany and Logwoods
\ A Cargo for Sale on board of the fliip Sally, captain
j Gelflon, just arrived from Honduras.
Apply to
. PHILIPS, CRAMOND &? Co.
February q 1 c
> DANCING
TAUGHT BY
; * MRS. B T R N,
Of the Nevr Theatre, To Ladies only,
| 'HINKING it a great advantage for them to have a
1- female Tutor in tHat art, p'edges herlelf to their per
t cuts and sri -r.ds to fake allpofflMe care in their inftru<sUon.
In addition to the Dances taught in Philadelphia, means
3 t;o teach the Minuet, Minuet de la Cour, Allemand, Ga
- vot, Quadrilles, Strathspeys and all Scotch Dances ; and
- above all to pay particnJar attention to that very necefTary
\ part Polite Address. For particulars enquire of Mis Bvrn,
No- 70 north Eighrh street. Februry 6 mwftf
PURSUANT to a Refolue of the Board of Trustees of
r Washington Academy, in So trier set County, and
State oi ilarvland, *
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
I Jhat the office of Principal Teacher in the said school 'is
vacant.
s A GENTLEM AN qualified to teach the higher Gieek-and
> Ii Latin daffies, C eography, and the Mathematics, with
3 such other branches of literature as are ufuallytaught in such
; schools, would meet with liberal enrouragement, and, it is
j believed, would obtain a very eligible settlement. For the
present, the Truflees would be willing to contrad with a per-
son capable of taking charge of a Gramma r S hool.
Aathis Institution ip piovided wi h buildings fufficient to
accommodate the principal and his family, and from seventy
" to eighty Wys[; a library, an excellent philo ophicil and ma
" ! thematica! apparatus, globes, maps, Sec; has refpe&able
funds, and is situated in a plentiful and agreeable part of the
■ country ; nothing feenis wanting to make it rank among the
• mofl ufeful seminaries in this part of the Union, but a suitable
, • charafler to preside in it.
I • Proposals may be addrefTed to the fubferiber, in Princess-
Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to D
j ; Martin L Haynie, No 8.3, north Third-street, Phila
f delphia, or to the Printer hereof.
; j EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
January 20. " Feb. 7. tu&fßw
1 This Day is Publilhed,
J BY Mcff- Dobfon. Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other
Booklellers. price One Djllar and twentv-five cents, elegant
ly printed on woye paper, and houpreffed, by John Thornp
i son,
1 A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
• Tbr CONSTITUTIONS of ik■ fvrral State,
With each other, and with that of the States:
' exhiVting in Tables, the prominent features of eaehCon
[ ftitution, and classing together their most impertant pro
visions, under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations. By William Smith, of South
' Carolina, LL. D and member of the Congress of the
> United States. Dedicated to the People of the United
" States.
1 N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
■ 3-4thsof a dollar. February 6 mwf
| For Sale,
r By George Defchamps, No. 91,
; NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
. Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
• Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or (ingle one
Dry Codfiih, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
- Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
{ and ground, for manure and fttieeo-work
December i t tth&f
JU.yr AKRIVi\ I),
By the Danilh Ihip Friendfnip, captain Matzen, from
Oporto,
f . Red Port Wine,
In Pipes, Hofflheadsani Quarter-Ca(k»,
150 Boxes of Lemons,
For Sxle by
Philips, Cramond & Co.
February 9 J
I .IVJ NTS A PLACE. '
AWoman who can be well recGmmcedcd for'noneuy, fo
b>iety,;nu food retnj,*r. She wishes to engage as cham
bermaid, O'- fempllrtfs for low wages or. conc - ion foe may
ictain a vouog child with "her. Eriquiiv at Na. 58 South
Front street. February 16 d
Bcur<3eaux Brandy, in Pipes, r
OLD Ciaret, in casks
Ditto in cases, of an excellent quality
LilbonlVine in pipes
Holland Gin
Nrw-£ngland Rum in hogfheadsand tierces
Rsifins in kegs
Bet 1 . 3ofton Beef and Pork
Halifax Salmon in barrels
Ruflia Sail Duck * .
Raveii* Duck
A few Fea her Beds
c "£i
Speimac*ti Candl-s
Mould and dipt Tallow ditto
A few barrels Tanners Oil, and
A Jbiail invoice of India Goods,
For Sale by
"JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co
ALSO,
Just received from Marfeillej, a foiall invoice of Silks, Silk
Stockings, an aflbrtmcnt of Perfumery, and a few cases of
the belt Olive Oil.
February 15 lot .
New Theatre.
On FRIDAY EVENING, February 17,
WILL be prelfnted, (for the second time) a celebrated
NEW COMEDY, (written by the author of Ctlum-
Ims, The Children int/tt fVn*f t &c.}c<it!ed
The' Way to get Married.
Al performed at Covent-Garden Theatre 39 nights, without
innrrtiiffion, the fuft season ; and fir.ct, upwards of I£o
nights, with unbounded applaufe.j
Tangent, Mr. Moreton Ned, Mr. BlifTett
TobyAtfpice, Mr. Harwood PoftiUion, Mr.T. Warrell
Capt.Faulkner,Mr. Cooper Undertaker, Mr. McDonald
Canftic, Mr. Warren Jailor, Mr. Milcbell
Dick Dafhall, Mr. Wignell Solicitor, |Mr. Morgan
M'Queery, Mr. Prigmore Officer, Mr. Warrell
Landlord, Mr. Darley William, Mr. J. Darley
Shopman, Mr. J. Waricli
Julia Faulkner, Mrs. Merry
Clementina, Mrs. Francis
Lady Sorrel, Mrs. L'lflrarige
Fanny, Mrs. Doaor.
To whicbwill be added, a Comic Opera, called
The Padlock.
Dun Diego, Mr. Darley
Leander, (firfttime) Mr. Darley, jun.
ill Scholar, Mr. Warrell, ju*.
ad Scholar, Mi. Mitchell
Mungo, Mr. Bate.
Leonora, Mrs. Warrell
Ursula, Mrs. Mettht'.er.
tf J On Saturday evening, will be performed, for
the feventhand last time this season, COLUMBUS ;
or a World Discovered ; with Entertainments.
The third night of THE WAY TO GET MAR
RIED will be on Monday next.
Box, One Dollar twenty-five tents. Pit Seven Eighths
of a Dollar, End Giillery, half a dollar.
0- Tickets to be hr.d at H. & P. Rice's Book-store.
No. 5a High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep, places a quartw before 5 0 clock, and
to order them, as soon as the company are feaftd, to
withdraw, as they sannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
' Places for the Boxes to w taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from to till 2 o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance.
nrAT RESPUBLICAI
0" Dodtor Prifstle Y intends to deliver a Dif
eourfe for the benefit o'f the Philadelphia Society fer
the relief of diftrefled Emigrants from Foreign coun
tries, oh Sunday morning next, Feb. 19, at the Col
lege Hall, in Fourth street, at half paftten o'clock.
February 16 3*
Wants a Place,
AS WAITER in a gentleman's Houle, a young man
who has lived for a considerable time in some of the
firtl houses in the city, and whose chara&er is sure; or
would engage with a fmgle gentleman to attend on him.
Dire&iom left at the New York and Baltimore ftage
oSice, No. tf), fotith 4th, near Market flfect, for R. H.
will be attended to. February 14
Will be fold,
On Wednesday, the iid day of February, injiant,
At the Merchants Coffre House,
At l« o'clock, noon,
A Lot, or Piece of Ground,
Containing 11 acres and 100 perches, situate near the
Blue Ball Tavern, on the Paffyuiik road, four miles
from the city of Philadelphia. This Lot commands a
view of the rivers Delaware and Schuylkill, is nearly inrlofc
ed with a good cedar post and rail fence, and has a never
failing fprin£ of frefh water rising in it—One acre of
which is good bottom meadow—adjoining 4ands of Willi- '
am Bifigham, Esq. Jacob Sink, and others. The terms
of falc, one fifth part in ten days after the day of sale, ;
when immediate pofTeffion will be given, the.residue in
payments agreeable to the purchaser, on paying legal in*
tereft therefor, and giving security for the fame, if re
quired. An indil'putable title will be givea, upon mak
ing the firft payment m aforefaid.
A Draft of said Lot may be seen at the Merchants'
Coffee-Houfe, and at the office of Alexander Power, No.
145 Chcfnut-ftreet, where further information may be
had. Philadelphia,. February 14 §t22
Sales of Depreciation Land.
TO THE PUBLIC.
WHEREAS a number of trails of land Commonly called
Depreciaiion land, formerly in Weftmoreland, now in Alle
gany county, were fold at Grecnfburg, month of au~ ,
gust last,' by the commiflioueis ot Weftmoreland, for taxes
pretended to be due for Allegany county, in the year 1789 ;
and wheiias the said taxes were not legally afleffed, nor <
the said comnnllioners authorized to aft, nor due notice of
the intended sale given,the commissioners for a pre ended tax !
not exceeding in the whole 231 dollars, having fold 53. 333 1
acres of valuable land. j
The proprietors take this method of cautioning all persons {
againlt making payments to the said commiflioners for any
purchases made of thrm, or of purchasing any part of the I
said lands from any other person, as thev mean to defend their 1
property so illegally fold, as well against the comrniflionera t
aforeiaid, as all other perfous pretending 10 hold under (
them.
For the information of their fellow-citizens they pro- I
pose (hortly to gwo a statement of the combination formed €
for the purchase of this property, and the names of the c
persons concerned therein. £
February r6. e«d4t
A stated Meeting of the Philosophical Society F
will be held at their Hall at 6 o'clock this evening. j t
Fiiday, February 17 ill
■
CONGRESS OF res UNITED STATES.
i
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, January lß>—Continued.
A call for the question aud for the committee to
rife was made.
Mr. W. Smith wished to fay a few words before
the question was taken. He said the discussion bad
turned upon points not before tlie committee, viz.
the quantity of revenue wanted, which would be
determined, if the principle was agreed upon when
the bill (hould be brought in, in filling up the
blank*, as would also the modification of the busi
ness. The only questions before them were, was
revenue wan'ed ? And whether, if wanted, direst
or indireffc fourcet should be applied to for the
money ?
All, except one gentleman who had fpokea up
on the fubjeA, acknowledged revenue t» be want
ed. With refpeft to the mode by which it (hould
be raised, gentlemen opposed to dire£ taxes, had
laid before them a number of fuggeftpns ; but the
resolution of his colleague (Mr. Ha per) was the
' only plan which was regularly bef»re> them ; he
(hould therefore not notice any othet; as gentlemeß
. who were serious in any of their fufgeftions ought
to bring them regularly before th( committee.
With refpeA to the propofitionof his colleague,
it rcight perhaps be pofiible to raise some little
fiom an advance of duty on the articles he had
mentioned ; but the only thing if confeqsence in
his lift was fait, against taxing which the opposi
tion seemed to be pretty geneal. With refpeft
to a duty on stamps, he did notbelieve that would
' be a measure which would mce with the approba
tion of the committee, and the window tax was
I only a land-tax in another forra, vastly more ob
l jeftianable than the prQpofition before them. With
refpeft to imports, he said, thej were at present,
•n an average, 16 per-cent. He believad that
would be thought fufficiently high. Indeed he had
been informed that ihe duty on some artiples was
already to high, that it would be neceffiry to re
duce it, in order to prevent their being fmiggled ;
so that what might be raised by impost oilone ar
ticle, would only go to br.frnce what might be
taken off from another, and therefore to addi
tional revenue could be expedted from that faurce,
Mr. S. said hp (hould mention a cirejmftauce
which he had from good authority, which would
prove that the present duty was not paid With that
facility which they had heard of, viz. that in one
city only of the United States, three hundrtd writs
. had been iffiied againj merchants, for the reeevtry of
; their bmded debts ! 1
If this was a fact, and he could not doukt it, he
- did not think this was a proper time to incrtafe the
duty on imposts. With refpedt to direCk taxes, he
! was a little surprised to hear the opposition which
had been raised to them, ffnee in every state, except
: two, a plan of this kind was adopted; how the
idea of a direst tax being an impracticable njeafare
' came to be thrown o»t, he could not imagine. He
was sorry it had been mentioned, since it might
[ have an effedt to weaken the confidence in govern
ment. With refpeft to what had been saM on the
. fuhjeft of modification, that would be matter for
future consideration. The only queitions were
: (what he had already stated) was revenue wanted ?
1 If it was whether they were ready to adopt the plan
proposed by his colleague, or agree to a direst tax ?
He hoped, therefore, they should then come to
. decifton upon the question.
r The calls for the question, and the committee to
- rife, were again repeated.
Mr. Harper said he felt no apology neceflary for
again troubling the committee with a few remarks;
but he promised they (hould be >s few as possible.
He thoHght it neceflary to make a few in reply
to certain things which had been- advanced agaiait
> the piopofuion which he had laid upon the table.
* It was said that they were not able at present to
make an aecmate judgment upon the fubjc-&. He
. thought they were. Some parts of his plan, he
• said, had been placed in a l'ght by no means con
. sonant with the truth of the cafe. It was neceffa
ry, therefore, to correct some falfe views which had
been given of the fubjeft, and place them in their
1 true light.
A member from Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin)
yesterday stated, that all the calculations which he
. had made on the fubjedt of irapofts, were wholly
i impcrfcdt and vain, becaufethey were, made on du
ties receivable, instead of received at the custom.
' house, and that the amount of duties received was
very far below his estimate. But the gentleman
, 9Ug;ht to have recolle&ed that those eftima'es were
not calculated upon any one year, but upon (he
, average produce of several years, tonfrquently
though the amount in one year might be less, the
average would be the fame, and the truth of his po
. fiticnthat the duties were would remain
unafFefted. Whether the amount of the r-reipts
was eight or five millions it made ns difference as
to his petition.
If the drawback, he said, Veere taken for anyone
year, it would be erroneous, as the dedudtiuns for
1795, went to the year 1796, and f 0 o<? ; "but
when the average on several years wai taken, it
would be found right.
He had asserted that his flatem:nts would not
be greatly aftedted by either war or peace ; nor did
he believe they would to any couuderabl! extent.
But the gentleman from Penofylvani» had predict
ed a very great defalcation of the revenue in cafe of
peace. He did not think it would be equal to the
incrcife of population which would he likely to take
place in consequence of such an event. It was
laid, that when a peace (hould take place, a g; eat
part of our cairying trade wonld be withdrawn, and
less capital would be employed ; but he a(ked if
that capita! would remain unemployed ? No ; agri
culture. perhaps manufiautes, roads, internal im
provements m!j<ht employ that capital.' And he
did not know but this would be a more profitable
employment of it, than in foreign commerce. He
believed that commerce had been over done, and
that wealth employed in that way might be more
profitably employed on othtv abjefts. fciftead of
being spread spoil the ocean, if it were spread upon
laed, he behtved it would turn to better account.
4
N.
In of war, an pven? which thev ought _al- v
ways to look upou as poffiblt, it was fa;u the t al
cattop would be great. This, he did not beheve.
He deprecated war as the great eft of evils, and he
hoped and trusted it would be very long before t.:it
country was involved in such a calamity. e_''°P
ed the events predifled by the gentleman from Penn
sylvania (Mr. Gallatin) would soon bless our fight ; ;
but though he believed war to be so great an evil,
yet he did not think our revenues would be greatly (
injured by it. In order to fee this, it might be ob- £
served, if our trade was a foreign trade, like that
carried on by the Dutch or English, it would de- I
pend upon a, state of peace. Those nations, in or-
der to defend their aommerce were obliged to keep
up large navy fcftablifhments (perhaps at a greatei
expence than all the benefits deiived from fueh a
commeree would warrant ;) but our commerce,
said he, depends upon, an exchange of the neccffa
ries of life with which we abound, for the fuperflu
oos labour ot other countiies. It was therefore the
interest of those countries to keep up this com
merce; they dtpended upon it for bread to eat.
Therefore, even in a state of war, they were under
the neceflity of winking at a commerce upon which
their very existence almost depended. In the lail
war, perhaps there was as great an amount 01 duty
paid as at present, in proportion to the population
of the country. Therefore, however great the e
vil us a *ar might be, it would not he said, destroy
our commerce. And with refpett to the plunder
of our property by (hips of war of different coun
tries, it could not be greater than it had been.
It had been said that the objections to a land-tax
were equally strong against a window tax, a tax on
stills, or other t;.xes of that kind, but this \r?s a
mistake. The differeqee was, that, in, one cafe,
they were apportioned by government upan the
people, and in the other the peoplechofe themselves
what part of them they wauld pay. And even ;
.idmitting (which he did not believe) that money
was as plentiful in the country as in cities, (till this 1
objection would lie against diteft taxes.
It had been said thai ttt£ impost duties could not
be raised : but no proof had been brought of this.
His colleague had indeed adduced a fait which lie
meant as proof, that ir one town 300 writs had
been iffucd for duty. Bu: this did not prove that
the duty was too high ; but that the merchants had
all of them over-traded their capitals, of which they
had had proofs enough already. If the duty bad
1 only been one half the present amount, the fame
thir g mi a ht have happened.
Mr. H then adverted to his plan, and defended
r it against the objections which had been uiged a
s gainst it. He observed that much had been said on
the fubjeft of smuggling. They should adveit, he
■ said, to the difference of situation betwixt this and
: foreign countries. What was the situation of Hol
: land, Spain and Great-Britain, in this refprft ?
t They were divided from, each other by rivers, or
narrow fe;>i which might be crossed in an open boat
: which would carry over 30,0001. worth of dutiable
: goods in a few hours. Ou-arhis account smuggling
: was carried to a great extent ; but in this country,,
t he said, the Atlantic mult be crossed, or a
. pan of it, before an article could befmuggled.
; ' r He concluded with fayinjr, that if there were no
r other fourte but a land lax to supply the deficient
; revenue, he would vote for it ; but he believed a
? tax on windows or hearths, with the additions he
i had propoled to the would be far prefera
? ble, he should theieforc be opposed to the present
> question.
The committee rose, and the house adjourned.
) Thurfdav, January 19.
A letter was received from the Secretary of the
r Tieafury, im h.fing the report of the Secretary of
; War on the fuujeft of the naval eftabliftiment, and
. an eftiraate icfpedting the ports and harbours of
i the United States. What related to the naval ef
t tabliftiment was referred to acommittee on that sub
. jea, and what refpeacd the ports and harbours,
> >vas referred to a committee appointed to take the
; state of those into consideration.
; Mr. Venable from ths committee of eleftionj,
. made a report, viz. that Mr. Dana from Connecti
cut was entitled to hisfeat ; and that they had pr»-
1 ceeied to examine the complaints made against the
r undue eleaion of Mr. Varnum, from the second
Middle Diftria of Maffachufctts ; that no one of
| the petitioners, or their agents, had apptared this
feffisn to prosecute tieir complaint*, nor transmit
ted any evidence on the fubjcCt ; that the fitting
member had produced evidence that the eleaion in 1
the town of Dracut, (the unfairnefs of which
had hfen complained of) was conduced with'fair
nefs and propriety ; and though there had been
fame trregulaiities committed in other places, they
were mostly owing to the mifconduft of the petiti
oners ; the committee, therefore, report it as their
opinion, that Joseph Bradley Vamum,is duly elec
ted, and that any attempt to deprive him of his feat,
appeared to be more the effea of malice, than of
any real ground of complaint against the faimefs
of his eleaion. Ordered to lie on the fab!#.
Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee of
claims, made reports on the petitions of William
Ciaik, Peter Lee, Catliff Ntfier, and John Steven
ion, who prayed to be placed on the pension lift.
I he report was agaipft the petitioners ; and, on
motion of Mr. Livingfton, who hoped some steps
would be taken to rclifve these fufferers, it was or
! dereri to be committed to a committee of the whole
. on Monday next.
T he report, called for the other day, from the
F attorney gene.al, refpefting the chim of Georgia,
■ to certain land in the south western parts of the
Jr.i ed States, tsgether with the documents rela
-1 tive thereto, was received and read.
Mr. Hindman, prcfented v the petition of Jeremi-
I ah Nicholas, a colleaor, for additional salary. Re
-rred to the committee of commerce and manufae
- tures.
Mr - S P"'gg. j"i. laid on the table a resolution
• to the following effea. » Relelved that the com- '
niittee appointed to enquire into the orogrefsmadc
in carrying into effea an a a for the sale of land
north weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth
! of Kentucky river, and also what alterations are ne. *
cellary in the fume, be turtber inftruaed to enquire
what ju-ogrefs has been made in carrying into effea
« «a for regulating grants of land for military fa
vices. Src. aH »'<o i? any and vifca* a!?er»tion» may
be oecs: :y in thv- fame."
JTP RR aI M C L 7'r KT
CLOCKS WATCHMAKER,
Hath just receiv«d by the Fame; from London,
and Alexander Hamilton, from Livtrpsol, a
large supply of
Gold, Gilt, and Silver Watch's •
Capt and Jewel'd, capt and fec»nds ditto ; spring Clocks
clock movements, eight day and 30 hour bra!*, forjred-'
work, and flit pinions ; clock and witch ; clock
bells and chim« ditto ; gold, gilt and silver ie« iants : a »
well as other to»l», files and materials, too tsdious to
mention.
Ladies' Steel £s* Gilt Chains,
With or without hooks ; seals, keysaud trinkets.
February .Jl uh&fif
For Sale,
A Quantity of Excellent
Turks-Island Salt,
Aud a few hogsheads
3d and 4th proof Rum.
Enquire of
1 Jehu Hollingsworth Es* Co.
1 February 17 (
For Sale,
t 8000 dozrn BRISTOL BOITLEI
r Bar IRON
R ICS
T Ail
CLARET, in hoglheads and cases
i SWIET OIL in cases
i) February 17 £ Apply to F. CSPPINCEk,
a .§7' > N». »si South Front street.
, The Subscriber
INFORMS the Public, that he wiaiufatturcs and hat oa
hand for sale, a very general aflfortment
1 Saddles, Bridles, Harness and Trunks,
V Asufua), life, FIRE BUCKETS an excellent quality
S all which he will dilpofe of oh moderate terms at No* 88
Chefiiut street, I J hiladelphia.k
t tv £IjLIAM JONES.
[ Februaiy 17 fm&wjw
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
d On SATURDAY E VENING,
C February iSth, at 7 o'clock,
Will be continued,
j Selections from the tragedy of
H A M L E T ,
With a Critical lnveltigation of the Chara&er of Hamlet
n and Observations on Shakespeare.
e
d On 7 EVENING, February »i,
1. Selefliens from the raoft interesting fceues in the
; Tragedy ef
f* Venice Preferv'd.
it
lc Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jua. at the Library; ;
„ at mr. M'ElWee's looking-glass-store, No. 70, S. Fourth
ftreet; and at Mr. Carey *s, Bookfeiler, Market-ctreet —
r Half a dollar each.
lt
C A UT I O N,,, L_
° "\T/" HEREAS CoL GEORGE JACKSON,
it VV of Harrifon county, Hate of Virginia, has afiign
a ed and transferred to Mr. John Jackson, (through Mr.
|ff Edward Jackson, who as a public servant was emruftei
to execute my business) about threa hundred thousand acre*
of my Land without my knowledge, power or a {Tent—l
therefore notify a'l pcrions nat to purchase aky of the
Lands under such vague affigament, from any of the Jack
son s or their aftigaees, as they must ultimately revert t»
me. Rd. SMYTH?
Philadelphia, February 17 fjw^
>f On Saturday,
The 25th in (taut, at 7 e'oiock in the evening, •
Will be Sold by AuQ 'ton % at the Cojfee-Houfcy
f Three adjoining LOTS of GROUND, in the townfliip
». of Mojamenling, a little to the southward of South-street,
, and adjoining a3O feet wide lane, called the Irish i ract
Lane, and alf© adjoining lands of Samuel Powell, de
ceased.
No. 1. Containing 4 acres and 83 perches
5, No* 2. Containing 4 acres and 83 perches
i- No. 3. Containing 4 acres and 56 perches
Plans of the Lots are the CoffcoHoufe.
Feb. t 7 EDWARD FOX, Au&'r,
e
d Peter Borger,
!' No. 120) Mulberry-Street,
18 I~J AS imposed by the brig Tryal, captain Robert Knox,
ll and the Good Friends, captain Smith, from Hamburg,
7000 Empty French bottles^
® , 200 do. demijohns,
n 846 do. tilled with beans and lentils,
h 100 Hand Engines,
10© Ps. Pianllas,
n 200 White Rolls—-
—-ALSO
Y Several boxes with decanters and tumblers, half pint, pint
i- and quarts—one invoice of Nuremberg toys—containing
j r fnuft-boxes, looking-glasses, See,
100.000 Quills of differen; qualities,
150 Boxes Window Glass, 7-99-11 n-i2»
" QN HAND
)f 10 Qr. Calks Sherry Wine,
f 9 4 do. Bi?ndy, -
aoo Cases best Holland Gin,
200 Boxes Red Wine, contaiaing 12 bottles each,
One bale of Flannels alforted, and
n 30 Ps. Cloth,
j. Fresh Prunes in boxes and barrels.
. February 7. tu & fr
n FOR SAL E,
)8
A. very Valuable Eltate,
/CALLED TWITTENHAM, fituale in th«
townlhip of Upper D ;rby, and county of Dchwars,
e '7 l-i miles from Pliiiad. lphia, and half a ir.iTe from t>)J
, new Western road icontaining 130 a«es of eicellent land,
' 45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of pri&.e Trooti
1C land, and the red arableof tha Srft quality. There are'
on thepremifesagood two flory btickhoufe, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a p-jmp-wett
i. of eicellent water-in front; a large fiarr- 'nan:, Rubles'
. and other convenient buildings ; a fmoke-hwife and fton:,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peicfj
'* es. are all in clover, e*eept those iirmeiiatiely
underjtillage, and are so laid out as to have tke advantage
n of waterin eachof them, which rendqrs it peculiarly c a
l- " venient for gracing.
e The situation is pleafantandhealthy, and from the high
, cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and th*
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable .for a gentiemtn's
" feat.
:• The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harmaa>
e iectaftd, and for sale !>v
it Mordecai Lewis,
'{• OA. 31. t*w Suvviviog Executor, II mi. HI
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE. j;
capture~of~amboyna. Vl
LONDON, Decmber 2. ™
c
Parliament-Street, November 29, 1796.
A dispatch from the Governor and Council of
Madras, dated Fort St. George, June 21, I79^>
which the following is a copy, h»s been
the conrt of Dire&ors of the Ealt India Company,
and by them communicated to the Rigrtt Hon.
Heury Dundas, one ofhi» Majelly's principal Sec
v retarics of State. v
Honorable Sirs, _
We have particular fatisfa&ion in offering to you
our Sincere congratulations on the complete success
which has attended the operations of Rear Admiral
Rainier in the Eastern Seas ; and judging that an c
early communcation of this event might be of mate
rial use to his Majesty's Ministers, we have deter- c
mined to forward this letter by the route of Buffo- 1
rah. ,
It appears by .the Rear Admiral's dispatches, da
ted the 27th of March and llth April last, and 1
which reached us on the 18th inft. by the .Orphe
us frigate, that the Britifli troops are in possession (
®f the islands of Amboyna'and Banda, with their j
fevered dependencies, compriling, as it was thought,
the wheleWof the Dutch islands, excepting Forna.i- '
te, yielding cloves, nutmegs, and mace—This ac- H
quilition has been attained without the smallest loss
on our lide.
Amboyna and its dependencies were delivered up
on the 19th February, and Banda and its dependen
cies on the Bth of March. Copies of the Capitula
tion are inclosed.
The Admiral speaks in the handfomelt manner
of the a&ivity and alacrity with which every duty
was performed by the forces under his command,
both naval and military ; and dwells particularly
* on the perteft harmony which all along fubfilled be
tween the officers and men in both services. It be
hoves us on this occaflon to convey to you the high !
sense we entertain of the able and spirited coi,du<ft 1
dijplayed by Rear Admiral Rainier, whose hearty co
opefation with us in every measure conducive to the
public weal demands our warmell acknowledgements,
and whillt we feel allured of your entire approbation
of all the means employed by this Government, to
give effect to the arrangement! frarawJ by his Ma
jesty's Ministers for, securing the Dutch fetttleme&tS
ia India, it is ueverthelefs, incumbent upon its
to declare, that the accomplishment of this great ob
ject has been chiefly obtained by the zealous and
cbeaiTul support which we have had the good for
tune to experience from the Officers entrusted with
the execution of it.
We (hall do ourselves the honor of transmitting,
by the firll sea conveyance, copies of all the papers
received from the Admiial which will enable you
to ferm an agcurate opinion of the value of those
islands. At present we can only give you a sum
mary of his proceedings. ,
1 he Admiral found in the Treasury at
na 81,112 rix dollars, end in ffore 515.94.0 pounds
weight of ctoves ; and in the Trealury at Banda
66,675 rix dollars, and in (lore 84,777 pounds of
nutmegs, pounds of tnace, besides merchan
dize and other (teres at each place, upon which no
value had been then put.
We are preparing to fend a reinforcement of
troops for the hetter proteftiori of those valuable
islands; and, as the Admiral lias advised us that he
is flioit cf provisions, and in want of a fupplj' of
naval and military stores it isosr intention to form
an adequate Hock of evety iieceffary article.
We have great pk-afure in acquainting you, that
the company's possessions on this eoaft are in a ftatt
of perfect tranquility ; and that we have no reason
. Vto believe that any defigus are in agitation by the
native powers hoftile N to yonr intercfls.
We have the honor to be, scc.
• (Signed) HOB ART,
ALUREDCLARKE,
EDW. SAUNDERS,
C. W. FALLO FIELD.
Capit illation of Amboyui, traiiflated from the ori
ginal in Dutch, Feb. 29 1796.
Not finding ourselves equal to withfland the great
force with which wc have been surprised, we the
undersigned governor and council do .hereby give
tip this settlement, with all its dependencies, and
place the fame under the prote&ion of his Britannic
Maj fly, upon the conditions mentioned te us ix the
letter of the Right Honorable the Governor of Ma
drafs : that is, upon condition that we may keep
all our private property, and be allowed a reafona
hL- fubfiftencc, that the inhabitants be guaranteed
in the secure poffeflion of their private properties,
and that the senior and junior servants of the Civil'
EilaMflhment, the Clertry, the Military and Marine,
.receive their usual pay.
Jt is upon the ab<»ve conditions that we (hall to.
morrow morning, give over all the gliards of the
fort to the troops of his Biitannic Maj sty, after re
ceiving the ratification of this inllrument by his Ex
cellency the Commodore.
D<ine at Amboyna, in the Caftte of Vi&oria, on
4he abo\e date. 1
(Signed) A. CORNABE,
R. SMISSAR T,
(Dutch Co. Seal.) F. OSTROWSKI,
ENEAS MACKEY,
ERON EYZABAD,
Approved of and aeceeded to
P- RAINIER.
(Englifl, Seal.) W. C. LANNON, Sec'ry.
Capitulation agreed upon between his Excellency
Petei Rainier, Esq. Corombdore, commanding
the Sea and Land Forces of his Britanic Majes
ty in these Seas, and F. Van Boeekholtz, Go
vernorof ilaiida, &c. &c.
In confideraton.of our great went of provisions',
mnd the great force with which the British have ap
peared before this fettUment, and to resist which
would bring deltrudion and desolation on the harm
less inhabitants of this place, we therefore think it
pru let)!, ft- tfie fake of humanity, and from our
eoulidcncc in the honor and generosity of the Eng.
lifh to accept of the terms offersd to us, and to de dep
liver into ttieir hands this fort and fetilemtnt, with lanj
all its dependencies, upon the following conditions, mu
viz.'/ felt
That private property be kept fequie to every fufl
individual of this set dement, whether in or out of Fe
the Company's service, that the fervasts of the ma
Company, civil and military, be kept in their res- art
j»eftive Rations, as far as Tiay b« thought necessary anc
for the administration of justice ; and the Civil Go of
vernment of the place, the Governor alone except- the
ed, as the government mud, of course, be vested in tas
the English ; that the military continue to receive ' pr<
their pay, and are not to be forced into the British coi
service contrary to their wishes ; and the civil fer- rei
vants also to be 'eontinued 011 their present pay ; and
fuoh an allowance made for the provision of the un
Governor as his Excellency the Comraandc.i of the bu
I British forces may think adequate. The Govern- fiv
t or, however, %'id any other Servants of the Compa
ny, (hall We permitted to retire from the service, he
either to Batavia or elfewhsre, whenever a conven- no
ient wppormnity (hall offer. > ' E'
Upon these conditions we, the undersigned, con- on
sent to deliver up Fort N a ff au > 'he fettUment of no
Banda, and all its dependencies, to the troops »f be
his Britanic Majelly to-morrow morning, upon re
) ceiving a copy ot the' Capitulation, ratified »nd sign- th
r ed by his Excellency the British Commander. #1 he ft<
keys of all the public propetty, and, all accounts to
' properly authenticated, shall be immediately deliver th
•ed over to the Britifli, and the Government entirely pt
- vested in them. v m
Fort Nassau, Banda, Niera,
March 8, 1799. O
(Signed) F. VAN BOEEKHOLTZ, la
A. H. VUJiGE, w
(US.) F. SALGANG', >"
T. MAZ.EE,
fL. S.) P. DE HAAN, ct
[ ' M. WALHLOO. n<
Approved and eccepted of, di
(Signed) w
(L.S.) P. RAINIER. ct
l i Ttue Copies, o<
(Signed) W. C-JACKSON, Sec'ry. e:
— gaMgaßraa—l «* I n
■; 1"
. v ' f . 11
" Philadelphia Daily Advertiser. a ,
_ _ ..
PHILADELPHIA, February 17. u
F
| On Wednesday, the Vice-PreGd nt, in a very affec
tionatt address, took It ave ol the Senate of the Unit- Q
r- ed States, and resigned the Chair. He was very much £(
:h affeiled on the occasion ; and the emotion of the Sen
ate wis not less visible. i
T Yelterday, the Senate proceeded, to the choice of a a
Prelident to supply the place ; when the Hon. Willi- f'
am Bingham was eleiSed.
,u A Cnmm ttee of the Senate was then appointed to
f e draft an answer to the Address of the Vice President.
n May his future adminiflratn.n lie as unexceptionable,
as his conduit during the period he has prelided over
y the Senate. - P
ds S
jj, Yelterday the two houses of th. Legislature of this f
o j: Commonwealth met in Convention, for the purpoft of j
electing a Senator in Congress ; when the votes were
n " at follows : .
10 James Rofs 56 r
William Irvine, 3S
of F
,] f Majority for Rofj, , 1 i
, lc Who is confequentiy re-eledled- p
Mr. Ffnno,
IT is an alarming trlith, that For want t>f a Bank- ,
rupt law in this State, the grofleft impositions and 1
at frauds are now pra&ifed. A considerable number of
te o»t trariing peoplej who find it difficult to make good L '
an their engagements, aflign over to their friends or re!»- 1
| ie tinns, the efieiSts «f others, of which they become pof
ft/Ted, and leave their just creditors without any satis- ']
fa-ition, except their persons, which sometimes are j
committed ta gaol, but liberated in the course of a few ■,
weeks and they often come out in wealthier circurn
flances than if no embarraflinent had happened to their
affairs. Thii evil is daily encreafing, and nnlefs it be I
ipeedily checked by proper Bankrupt laws, there will I
ioon be an end to that «<mfidtnce so necefiary to fublilt
r j aniodg a commercial people. B. 5
~ I
a, COMMUNICATION. 1
| l<; As it was deeply the interejl of France to fee Amar- ]
ica separated fr im Great Britain—so it has been the 1
policy, as indeed it is the interest, of the Freneh R«- j
public to prevent any commercial intercourse between .
Ilc them. To aecomplifh this, ihe ;has exerted, for near
he every intrigue, and is now using Force. If
a- (he is really in earneit in her attachment to thepmplt '
ep of this country, she will enter into that fair competition, "
a . with her rival, forour trade, that leaves us—what we (
ivill have ; (independent of holh;) the right of dc- (
dining, or of availing ourselves of, the terms whii h ,
*• any nation may think it proper to offer. This new J
"'l method of courting the People, by PIRA CIES on their
IC, (bins and property, will never secure them our trnie, '
though for a little time, they mill have it us PLUN- 1
o. HER. y J
h J_ COMMUNICATION.
x- There is no truism better eftabliffied either in r
morals or politics, than that the weak are fubjeft I
in to be oppr«ffed by the strong. It holds good from C
the brnte creation to man, and is equally applicable
to nations as to individuals. A small power conti
guous to a large one, presents itfelf as an object a
of national avidity ; and if it escape being annex- t
ed as an appendage to its neighbours, or incorpora I,
ted and 101 lin the common mass, it is often com- r
pelted to pay dear for its independence, and must a
fobmit to all the arbitrary exactions they choole to a
impose. It is fit also wiih commercial nations def- f
tituie of a naval force to protcft its trade—of this fc
v the Uuited States are at present verifying the truth, p
g As our revenue is principally derived from du- 1
f- ties on imports, it is obvious that the one encrea- c
j fes or diminishes with the other ; and therefore it
is oifr interest to guard as much as possible against (
s', the causes of defalcation. c
i- If our present revenues are inadequate to sup- t
h port the ordinary charges of government, and main- t
1- tain a naval force equal to protection, let us recur 1
It to other means- t
ir It is perfectly clear, that the Agricultural and t
commercial intcreits aie reciprocally iufluential and <
I 1 v "» ■
*
dependent on each other. Ifone fails, the other
languishes. If our commerce is cut uu, pro uce
mutt tall. The truth of this is beginning' to be
felt, and will probably be felt (till more. The lofies
fuftaineti by our merchants render them cautious. w
Fewer vessels are sent to the Weft Indies,the great d
market for meals, beef, pork, and other valuable j r<
articles of produce. Hence the demand lelf.ns, |
and prices lower. This is an appeal t» the farmer, jci
of which he mtift neceflarily be sensible, and evinces «i
the policy of (übmittmg to be taxed. If a light . g
tax were laid on our lands, it would be a sure and j ai
' productive sauce of' revenue, not dependent on
contingencies, n»r the caprice or injustice of Fo
reign powers
With fortleaid from that quarter, and others yet
unexplored, a revenue might be raised fuScient to I
build and maintain a Navy, equal, at least to defen- J
five pronation.
Our distance from Europe precludes all ■ appre
henlion of dinger from inyafion ; hence there is
no N neceffity of supporting a land force, as every k
Europe in powe\ is unhappily obliged to do. Our •
only charge wo\Jd be the fleet ; and as thts would a
not require to sot Defence, it would not It
becamt burden il
To this intereftiig objefl our eyes fhotild, from b
this moment, be iiceflantly turned. The circum- t
(lances and politionof the United States fh.-w them e
to be calculated for j mod extensive commerce with o
the whale world. Our true policy will alwavs be
peace ; and to fuppert that system refptJibly, we r
mull possess a Navy. t
Provided as we night and should be, on the k
Ocean, if a war breakout between France awd Eng- c
land, or any of the Rjropean powers with which
we have mod extenfire commercial relations, we
might announce out drtettnination to he neutral,
and at the fame time Htclare, that »s we wilhed to r
eostinue out commetcepeaceahly with all, we would 1
nvtfnbmit to be treated with difrefpeft, nor plun- \
dered with impunity, by any. That we Ihonld, 1
when neceflary, oonvoy our merchantmen and repel 1
every aggreflor. That if individual depredations a
occurred, we would demand reparation ; and if we (
experienced delay ortefulal exercise the right which j
i nations are permitted to ex it, of making repri- i
I sals. That this should not exceed the amount of i
our loflesas far as they could be ascertained, but I
that we vou)d in every cafe proceed thus far. , 1
An early declatation of this furt iuppotted by
an abilityto carry it into effect, would deter others
from comtrtitting wanton a&s ot barbarity or pitacy
upon us ; for the conduct of Britain lately, and I
Frante at present, merits no fofler tit]e«.
This fubjeft is a serious one, and alarms the cun- 1
fideraiian oi every American def>i*us of feeing his i
country fotirifh. Our ft uatton is fuch'that we
may profit by doing good to others in diitieis, and
not to improve our advantages, is little better than
: folly. . [iV. r. D. Gmz ]
The following is contained in a letter from aH emi
nent hnufe in Liverpool, & is communicated for
publication by an obliging frier.d.
* PRICE CURRENT »i Liverpool, Dee, 15.
Prime wheat 7#6 a 8 per 701b
Superfine. £atir ju a 32 bbl.
Fine floar 29s a 30 do.
Indian corn 2SIO a 3 WinchetteV bufbel.
A demand foi the Welt Indies has eonfiderably
reduced the llocks at market.
Flax feed 69 a 7 WineWefler bufliel.
Psarl allies lftq. 67a a 68 per cwt.
Nominal andexpe&edto decline.
Piit alhes 111 qn*. 46s a 48 per cwt.
No sale at ptefent—laige Hocks on hand, and ex
pected to decline. f
, Rice . jiss a 22 s6 perewt.
j Large supplies from the Ealt-Indies, and the sale
1 dull.
- Turpentine l6s<S a 1756 perewt.
In demand.
" Tar 20s a 21 bbl.
E Pitch cwt. .
Deer (kins in "I ,
1 , • }- is 6' a 2 lb.
r the li?ir j
e Bees wax »wt.
1 Indigo—no sals lb.
1 Tallow l2olbs.
Staves, butt 551. a 60 m.~]
Pipe red «ak 5 a 610 m. | 5Sj
White do. 14 a 16 m. |
- Hhd. red do. 4 a 5 M. |* 3
e White do. 10 a 13 M - l* Sf
Bel red do. 210 a 4 m.
r White do'. 8 a 10 . m. c,
f Hhd. heading 10 a 13 m.
'e Pig lroa 6 a 7 24oplbs £. 6"
Tobacco duty unpaid per
e Georgia 3 3-4 a 61-2 lb"|
Carolina 3 3-4 a 612 lb |
1 James River 1 oil
r r York j + 88 |
■ Rappahannock 7 _ ~ I a
' Potowmack } 3 8 ? ,b J
Stemmed 6 1-2 a 8 lb [ ®
Maryland infeO I
lior, common >3 1-2 a 4 lb |
n middling J | •
* Bright 5 1-2 a 6 lb I
n Gold colour 7 a 8 lbj.
e Mr- FEN NE L L,
On Thursday evening, entertained a numerous
* and refpestable audience with a vfcry elegant selection
-tion of fame of the fineft pieces in the Etiglifh
language, ilis delivery was, as usual, highly ani
,- mated and appropriate, and if we judge by live
I applauses which immediately succeeded the perform
-0 ance, gave great futisfaftion to his hearers. The
- story of Lavinia was well calculated, by the amia
s ble tenderness which it cannot fail to excite, to pre
. pare the mind for the pathetic tale of Edwin and
1- Emma, and the more afte&ing tho' psiaful pi&ure
1- of the enchanting sorrows of the deranged Maria.
t Ir Collin's Ode on the Paflions, and Drydeu's
t Ode on St. Cecilia's day, Mr Fennell exhibited a
coafiderable exertion of his powers; but in theOtJe
- to Mn i»-fs, the wildnefs of the human mind in its
1. most dißrefling fitnation was Wut two jullly repre
r fented. The varied efifetfts of lunacy, from the
tender complaints of the iove-fick maid to the wild
d ravings of the furious maniac, alternately mehed
d aod psirifecd the heart.
/
RICHMOND, Fetmwy 8.
Philadelphia, December 27th, I
GfXTLEMkN,
The address on the fulojcil of my retireir: r,
whi< h you have done me tlit- Jioiior to enclc.e, by
direction of the general assembly of Virginia, was
received 011 t lie 25th.
My acknowledgment of it ii committed to your
i are—and foi the polite and flittering marine- lit
which you have,executed the dire&ion of the '<*-
giflaturc, I pray you 10 acccpl my best thai.ki,
and all the good wiflirs of,
Gentlemen,
Your most obedient and
Very humble servant,
Go: WASHINGTON.
Ludwell Lee, Efq* S. S. 1 «r- •
John WisE, Esq. S H. D. j Vir M"" s -
To the GENERAL ASSEMBLY" of VIRGINIA.
GENTLEMEN,
For your address, be pleased to accept my'ac
knowledgments.
That any services of mine (hould have*produccd
a derlaration or ihe frie»dfhip and gratitude of the
legiflalure of Virginia, cannot but be as pleasing as
it is honorable to me, whose higbel'c ambition has
been, by faithfully and zealouffy ferviwg my coun
try, to the utmost of my abilities, in all the public
employments of my-life, to merit the approbation
of my fellow-citizens.
It is with unfeigned thankfulnefs for the good
ness of a kind Providence,* that I look forwaid to
the period, when the firft willies of my hian arc to
be gratified, iif reiurnjng once more, to privaie «c»
cupation, in the (hades of rural retirement
t Go: WASHINGTON.
United States, 2"Jth December, 1796.
Died, at his feat in Richmond county, on Wed
nefdny the lßrh uliimo, in the lixty thir ye.r of
bis age, Lighttoot Lee, Esquire. He
was anea'ly, zealous and adiive fiiend to the revo.
lution, which established the independence of the
United States »f Ameiica. He was a firm, calm,
and enlightened patriot, and a most unequalled fa
cial companion. He met his fate with that com
pnfed fortitude, which mult always flow from the
recollf&ion eta well-spent life, and those who w:t
nefled it, were ready to exclaim, Oh I let us die
the death of the righteous, and let our lalt end be
like his!
\
FAYETTEVILLE, (N. C.) Fel,Aiary 4.
On the 191JS ult. Mr. and Mrs. Glare, of Robe
fon were murdered by a mulatto girl ; Mr. Glare
went to Deep in the day timij—thegirl having kil
led him with an axe, went to the door and calk'd'
on her miltr> fs from a neighbouring house, and said
her mpfter wanted to fp;ak to her—Mrs. G. im
mediately repaired to the bed (ide of her husband,
and was about to uncover him, wh«-n the girl rtruck '
i»er with the axe, and killed her also. The girl is
now in Lumbertou jail, and her trial was to come
on the 2d inft.
It is supposed the girl's reason for commi*ittin»
this horrid deed, was owing to her mailer having
m Jf a will some time ago, in which lie desired this
girl to be free after the death of himlelf and wite,
%AZET7E MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA,
ARRIVED.
Ship Neptuna, Jefferj, Lisbon, via Nev-York
Sctvr Amy, Woodward, Cape-Francois, «!o
CLEARED.
Ship Eagle, Gates, Madeira
brig Rolina, James, Baltimore
Sclir Little Fanny, Cox. St. Thorim'i
Sloop Folly & Molly, Denlke, Richmond,
c From Log-buok of brig-Peggy, Hardy, from Amster
dam.
Jan. 16, lat. tt, 41, long. <3, 10, spoke fchr. El
eanor, Rowland, 14 days from New-York, bound to
St. Thomas. Jan. 18, spoke the brig Dolphin, Smirb,
from Philadelphia to Hifpaniola, out 16 days, lat.
ti, 19, lonp. 64. oc. Feb. I, spoke the sloop Polly,
, out 3 days from Cliarlefion to ln the
Peggv came 4 paffengtrs. n
Ship George, *of Boftcm, is arrived in Hampton
Road, 153 days from Batavia.
Ship Bdfton-Packet, Tennant, of this port, arrived
at Charleston the Ift instant, from London.
•" From Loyd's Lift to Dec. 9 inclnfive.
Arrived at Gravefend.
a Manchester, Shewell, From Philadelphia
Concord.JKcarfay, Boflon
Factor, Kemp, New-York
■> Columbus, Fletcher, Virginia"
" Plato, Laurence, New-York
" Dover.
Montezuma, Chace, Baltimore
Condord, Mafley, Boftntt
Liverpool.
Pigou, Sinclair, New-York
Virginia, Davis, Virginia
Conue&icut, Lord MofTaciiufetts
Falmouth.
Packman, .Virginia and faild for Rotterdam
Clyde.
Samuel and Margaret, Stedman, New-Yeik
Bilboa.
Helen, Dixey, > Boil on
Boston, February 8.
Arrived, fchr. Mary, Hall, Rotterdam, 54 di.ys.
* Left ship Suberb, Gardner of Bollo.n, readv for
Sea, but froze up. Jan. 12, long. S6, spoke
I 1 ship President, Boynton of Wifeaffet, from Liver
■ pool for New YcArk. The brig Ann, Lloyd, ar
e rived from Bolton Dee. 3. Brig Bart
lett, Martinique, 22 days.
Schr. Vandyke, Prior, Edenton, spoke ship A
merica, Smith, 6 days from Bofton,over Hatteras
Shoals for Edenton. Brig Delight from Marti
nique, 29 days to the Barr, had arrived. Left at
e the Marflies, capt. John Purket.
... «
8 From the American Daily Advertiser.
a Messrs. Claypooie,
e Please to insert the following, for tile good of those,
t| who are afflicted with violent head-aches, who will
e find immediate relief by Metallic Points, invented by
Dr. Perltins; —for this morning I was so violently sr
!j tacked with an excruciating pain of the bead, that X
was unable to walk : bet got immediate relief upon t!:a
•d Doilor's appiyinr his Metallic Points to my head.
S. PASSEY.Lancaster, Harrijburgh, Carlisle, Ship
penjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
The public are rcqif;ftedto take notice, that the part- '
nerfhip which has for some time, fublifttd between Mathi
as Slough of Lancailer, and William Geer, i» now diifol
red . but, not M. Slough insinuates to the public ]
without just cause ; as will more fully appear by a letter
on the from M. Slough t© W. Geer, dated the 4
29th- December last; a recital of which is jiot now deemed
necessary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be more cir- v
cuir lantially informed of the merits of this business, by (
applying to W. Geer may have the perusal of M. Slough's {
letter, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or not W. Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiabie in attach- 1
ing himfelf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenfburg,
or any other place. l
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public t
were pleaied to confer on the firft effort in this business, s
VC iliiam Geer, in conjunction with Meflrs. Reily, Weed
and Witmer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on, c
with every care, attention and dispatch that a zcai to o
blige the public can possibly exert. f
Ihe above company, who are amply provided with r
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render the j.
passage fafe and commodious, inform those who wish to t
patronize and encourage thr undertaking, that they can
take their feats at George Weed's, the lign of the White t
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday t
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg, Carlisle
and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto eftabliflred. a
For the further accommodation of the public, a Sta^e
will start every Wednesday from the houfc of Samuel a
Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive-at Sunbury in Northumber- e;
iancj county,-every Thurfdayv and return from thence and
arrive at .Harrifburg every Saturday, so that pafTengers r .
destined for Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed o»n
Mondays. g
WILLIAM GEER. s
Lancaster, Jan. '27, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from tha house of
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward; P
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
1 at Patrick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, a|id returns from
thence on every Thursday : performing) the fame routine I
daily as in its tour from Philadelphia. raws
SWAN N'S
Riding School, ftorfe Academy iff Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, daring his residence in this City, and
flatters himfelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has St
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
me their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious prtmifes, erc&ed for the Fc
purposes above are open for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who wish to be inltrutted in the Art of Riding,
and the light method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to: he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to thai noble animal
all those beauties qf aft ion which providence has so bounti
fully bestowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rales of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the.above institution has never been qneftion
ed, that ir has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
stud willmanifeft, and T. Swann as the firft eftahlifher of
the veterenary art, solicits and relies upon the fuppon of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to 0,4
bring it to perfection. The idea of a fublcription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who-wifti to
promote the institution—the amount of each fubferfptioo to
be returned by services in any of the departments heprofeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such
fubferiptjon is now open, and the signatures of many refpe£t- j
'•tile gentlemen already obtained. He therefore informs his -fini
fnendjfend furh Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not s icl
Ulc - of being known, that he shall *io a few days take Dn
the liberty of waiting upon them and folickinjr their support of.
and protsftiop.
N. B. Horses are proper iy prepared for those Ladies and «v
Gemlemenwho wish to be inftrudled.
-S- tth&C, Jc
iirokcrs Office, and *1
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftreet.oppofitethe national new Bank* a ' bc
SAMUEL M FR vUNCES and JOHN VAN REED* in S
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of are
, OUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, tel j
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and 1
fell on commission every fpeeies of stock, notes of hand, dltl
fcill= of exchange, houses and lands, &c. " el
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds of J
writings in the conveyancing line, done with nratnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
mod correal manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M.FRAUNCES, f) ~
JOHN VAN REED. *
Philad. Augu.fl 37, 1796. m&wtf (t ,„
James M'Alpin, ' bott
No. 3, South Fourth-Jirect, ' lcl ' ;
RETURNS h'.s grateful acknowledgment to his £ ' cs '
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement, Porl
•and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors. ' exan
He has on hand an extensive afiortment of the
Mod Fajhionable GOODS, "ert
And of the bed quality, suitable for the season. &c.
At this shop Gentlemen caa be furniflied withthe befl »
materials, and have them made op in the neatest and most sale*
Fafliionable maniter, and en the ihortcft notice. He will the i
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
punctual attention. to them.
November 10. us P
This Day is Publiflied, t
By BIOREN o MADAN, at their Printing Office,
No. 77, Doek-itreet, and fold by the principal R"
Bookfel'ers in this City. -L»
The American Annual Register ; ston
Or historical Memoirs of the United States, for the from
YelT 1796- houf
No. 167. chcn
Di/lriS of Ptnnfyhania, to <wit : —eq
Be it remembered, that on the 19th day of January T
In the Twenty-firft year of the Independence cf the we)l "
United States of America, Bioren & Madan of the said and 1
diflridl have depofi'ed in this Office the title of a Book unde
the Right whereof they claim as Proprietors in the HouJ
words following tn wit: mash
" The American Annual Register, or Historical 34 f '
*' Memoirs of the United States, for the year 1796. te ", r<
In conformity to the afl of the Cengrefs cf the hi
United States entitukd "An a A for the encourage- ™rt
mcnt of learning byi securing the copies of Maps, w j- 01l
Charts and Books, to the authors and proprietors of J
such copies during the time therein mentioned." ditios
Samuel' Caldwejl, firft 0
Clerk Pennsylvania D.O: ia.
January a 5. iaw 4 I j an
bip. PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the Unitei
j O
States,
part- On the following Pojl Roads, till be received unti
["hi- thefirjl day of March nertt inclujlve -
iflol- i. From Charleston, S. C. by JacJsfonboro' and Coofs
ul>l!C hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the Vtai
letter at Charleston every Tuelday and Friday by 6, P. M. anc
1 the deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by f
emed A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah eve}
c ' r " Saturday, by 6, P.M. andWednefdjy by 6, A. M. ant
s > by deliver it at Charleston the next Tuesday and Fridaj
s t>y noon.
whe- p rot of ids fur this route xvill be received by the pdl-maßer ai
Savannah.
the 2 . From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a wee\ —
,ur g» Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort hy noon on Friday. Re
ublic turnings leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. M.and arrive
ineH, at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Vecd Propof.ils for carryings tbe mail on this rouje will be r«-
C on, ccJyec} fcy t he pofl-niafter at Beaufort.
0 °" Note 1. The Post-master General may alter the times
. for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance of the previously ftipu
t e iating an adequate compensation for any extia
™ to that may be ocoafioned thereby.
can Note 2. For every hours delay (inavoidable accidents
ue excepted) in arriving after the tints prefcribdcj by con
\ tra &> contrador lhall forfeit me dollar, and if the
ra e delay continue until the departureof any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five d>llars lhall be incurred.
ta Note & Should any person mating proposals desire an
" uc alteration of the times of arrival :nd departure above fpe-
cified, he mull (late the alteration desired asd the price
an he will carry the mail for witland without such alte
gers ration.
0,11 Note 4. The contra&s are t> be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to <ontinue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
2 Pojl Majltr General.
Sa- General Post Office, >
ird; Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1797. j
urg 16. aaw6w.
iv es
p Particular TenerifFc Wine.
s° Quarter-Calks Particular TeneriSc WINE,
Of a superior QuaKty,
For falc by A. MARPLE IS. IV. MORRIS,
> * No. 60 Dock-street.
February 8 wf&miat
om By Authority.
i" s d Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
I»s Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, N 9 . 64,
South Second-Jlreet.
rge SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
the For rai(ing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
pils the Legislature of Penufylvaaia, passed during the last
jig, feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
ide Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, ia the County of
be Berks. Dollars,
ind 1 Prise of 20,00® Dollars - 20,00©
ers 1 do. of t©,ooo do. • » 10,000
ing 3 do. of 5,000 do. - . . 15,000
nal 4 do. of 2,000 do. - - 8,000
iti- 20 dp. of 1,000 do. - . . 20,000
39 do » of s°° do. . . 19.500
is 80 do. of 200 dot. . . 16,000
led too do. of 100 do. - „ . 20,000
300 do.' of 50 do. - _ is,«oo
>n- 1 s®° to be paid the posses-)
n>s ' for f the firll drawn no.)
of 5 do* of 3,000 do. to be paid poflelTors )
at of the five last drawn nos J r s»°°®
to do* o 15 do# : . 141,000
hat
lo 10,054 Prizes 300,090
to >9»946 Blanks
es,
# 30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,050
ft- All Prizes lhall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
nis finilhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
lot jicket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
ke Drawing will commence as foonws the Tickets are difpoftd
ort of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given,
nd Ph'l'p Miller, Peter Kerjlner, William 'Witman,
Joseph Htejler, James Diemer, Thomas Tiundas,
James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. i, to be had at the
k, above office, where the earliest information of the draw
jj" ing of the Washington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif
tering are kept.
jj' Tickets in the above Lottery to ba bad at Mr, Sheri
d dan's Race-street, John Hay, North Third-ftrect and
' Henry Sw;yer's, German Town.
of January 26 aawtf
id y ~ ——
ie Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. s, for fal«—a
Check Book for examination— and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Chccl; Books kept for examination and re»iftering, for
" , the , Ci ty ° f , Wafhi "g ton > No - 1 » «d Pattefon Lotteries,
both of winch are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizei exchanged for undrawn
■ s tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the la'e New- '
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for '
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public 1
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock 1
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands' 1
■ or to obtain money on deposit of property.
1 r I*** t lf ° J'*"? in the Schuylkill (Bridge Lottery for !
1 f„ . Do " 818 each » whlch will be drawn early in ,
" the Spring. 7 »
Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 16, 1797. „, t h
Houses and Lots for sale, \
1 T> Y the Subscriber, in the town of Weft-Qhefter, Chef- 1
JJ ter county, a 5 miles from Philadelphia, on the great 1
ftatc-road, leading Westward- Viz. No. i, Atwo-ftory >
Stone House, the corner of High and Gay streets, 40 feet =
C We y t feH ißciudi "g » v ery convenient florc- <
house . the House contains ten well-iini(hed rooms, a kit
chen and entry r the Lot is , 44 f ece f ron t on Gay-ftre et ,
~T n a ''° a "y " aD . d , in West-Chester. No. 2. A twc-fto-
' 7 11G J fe adjoinin S' »7 feet front, containing eleven I
; -11-fin.fhed rooms, both being ceiled in the garrets house 1
1 andlot / a ™t depth " the "tlaer, !
Houfl T fC A W " h g °° d <table ' 011 t!,c lo » These 1
' maftSlvm 10 m W ' d ° ne hy g° od workmen, in a <
sec/ No /' N «'3- Lot 4 a feet front. No. 4, <
1 lendI e nd7 ds 'it r 4tw °° f '
wMe e w!n V b L °" ?A fUH " tCd near the Cotirt-Houfe. The
Old davs nf F T '° PUBUC SALE - ° ;1 a "d I
at two o'clock, when the con- t
d.tion. will be mack known Possession may be «d the c
firft of April „«t. Tlie Title is indisputable. *
January JOHN KINNARD. . t
I ?iaw3>v
/ .1; -f i. ; •; _
..v .
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
ED r.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty aollar«, for the purpose oi cutting
- a Cancl through the City of Wafhingfcon, fro-.i th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour. I
' The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
and Viz -1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, ao.ooo
y ® 1 ditto 10,000 10,000
p t22!5?}
da y 6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,00©
T lO ditto 100 *,OOO
55 ditto 3,759
/ 575° ditto 12 69,00$
y D 6, ' Toie raised for the Canal, 26,35©
Re
rive 58.50 Prizes, 17J.000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000 2
£s" The Commillioners have taken the Securities re
'U" quired by the aforefaid ad for the punctual payment of
P u the priaes. _
nce The drawing of tlusLcttery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely ti
notice will be given.
Such prize, as are not demanded in fix months after th« si
ia -j drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquiflit d for ti
, the benefit »f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG, J
DANIEL CARROLL, w
' LEWIS DEBLOIS,
te GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
the THOMAS LAW,
cf JAMES BARRY.
City of Walhipgton, Feb. 11. " §
— di
FOR SALE, ' £
About 1,600 acres of Land, ti,
1 WELL Gtuated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in P (
S. four separate Patents. For terms of fa!e apply to "■
Wm. Blackburn, L
N«. 64, Smith Second-ftrset j- t
January 16. mwftf
A Principal Book-Keeper
IS wanted in one of the Public Offices. Enquirsof the
Printer. February to §6t
4>
Dr. Perkins
TNforms the Citizens of Philadelphia, that he has taken
JL lodgings for a few days, at the Indian Queen, in 4 th
a fireet. He will be happy to wait on any persons in this
city, between the hours of 9 and 1, who wilh to latisfy
themselves of the efficacy of his , O
PATENT METALLIC POINTS, O
JO And will operate gratis for the relief of the poor : the
3Q iuftruments, and the right of using them, are for sale at d
30 his lodjings.
30 Subjoined, are Ext rails from a Pamphlet, containirfg ma
-30 ny remarkabls cases, attcfted by charaders of the high
-30 ell refpeiflability.
30 ExtraSs from Letter f to the Author of the Metallic Dijcovery.
30 Pierpont Edwards, Esq. Diftrid: Attorney for the ilate
)0 of Connecticut.
New-Haven, Odlober 7, 1796.
38 Dear Sir,
I fhould'.hive written you last week, had I then been
>0 able to ascertain certain fails, the rumour of which I had
~ heard. A Mrs. Beers, a near neighbour to me, the wife
of Eben Beers, and daughter of captain Samuel Hnggins,
of this town, had been, for fourteen weeks, exceedingly
30 diftreiled with the Rheumatil'm, to such a degree that for 1
is fourtee " weeks previous to the 19th of last month, die
(e had not been able to walk across the room'even with crut- xt
ches, faveoniy once, when she made out with the affift
d anee of crutches to hobble part of the way acrois her room. J
n. On the 19th of September last, she procured a set of your
,j, metallic substances, and in less than an hour after she had S '
/i begun to use them, in the manner directed by you, she ,
' rofc from her chair, and walked about her house, and on —.
'• the next day Ihe went abroad to her neighbours, having f
thrown afidc her crutches. I have this day paid her a vifi^
in company with her father, and Timothy Jones, Esq. 1
ie who lives in the street where ffie resides and diredtly op- #r '
'■ pofit< to her residence, and with Capt. Abel Burrett, who
s . is her nex*. neighbor, and lives witliin eight yards of her
'' door. I requested her to relate her cafe over in their
presence, which she did, and these gentlemen all with one r
voice, supported, from their own knowledge, her flory. • ?'
a It is a duty which yon owe yourfejf and the world to pro- " 'ji
mulge this event. I am, very refpedtfu'lly, a , s
Your obedient fcrvant, , ler
PIRR PO NT EDWARDS . , C
N. B. She fays her frver has left her, her appetite has ■? "
returned, and she is in a fair way to be restored to perfedt •5,
health. w 'lf
Rev. Mr. Spalding, of Salem. Ulsi ,
a This may certify, that the fubferiber, in his visits among 1
n his people, has used Dr. Perkins's metallic points, to re
lieve pains and inflammations of various kinds, and has
r succeeded to his astonishment. They have seldom failed m ° l
'' to relieve the heai-ach, teethrach, ague in the face, in
® flammation in the eyes, cramp, cholic, rlieiimatifm, pains
of the breast and fide, biles, fcaldsand burns—Sometimes J' nu
there has been a perfeit cure from one operation. A lad J
r who had been coufmcd three days with high symptoms of
. a fever, very hot and full of pain, by an operation of the
points, designed to relieve his head, his facc turned pale
' and cold, his fever and pain immediately left him, and in
' a few days he was out of doors ; the year before, at the
. farae season. We was taken with the fame symptoms, and T N
1 lay extremely sick forty days. The efficacy of the metal- A 1
lie points has gained great credit in this town. t ' le
JOSHUA SPALDING. ' IU "
Dseember 5, 1796. are
Rev. Elhanan Winchester. ther
1 certify, that on the irft of Marchi.l796, I saw Dr. ia P
Perkins's method of cure by pointed metallic instruments, rßd .
tried with success in the jjoor-houfeor betteriag-houfe in
Philadelphia ; especially npon a .man who was unable to
liit his right hand to his head, as was tried beforehand, but ®
■ who after a few minutes operation, was able to remove it
• P , s afßr!! ' and ' n m 7 ! 'ght, put it with cafe on the top
. of his head and back of his neck, and in all directions. .'
Nearly the fame effedt took place upen a woman ; and "
, all that I saw treated, profeffed that their pains Tafcd c
. aiter being treated a Ihort time : and several came volun
-1 tarily, and in my hearing thanked the Dr. for cures he the '
' • performed on them about eight weeks before, in re
i moving pains from them, which they declared had not _5
: fmce returned :—fo that from what I saw with my own
1 eyes, and wjiat I have heard, I have great hopes that this
' ® reat tend to alleviate the miseries of man- ' S
„• ~. . T.LHANAN WINCHESTER . X
Philadelphia, April 4, 1796. ers i
Extrafl from a Providence Papsr. '
Communication. P
Dr. Perkins s invention for removing pains from the
human body, begins to obtain reputation in proportion ——
to its ut.lity and efficacy. The fimplieity of the operati- p u
OB was at firft an ob/t»cle to its credit; but the fiood cf c
vidence in its favor, from adtual exptriment. i*at length
too powerful to be refitted,
February 7. . > dxwaotf
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery authorized by a:i entit'irl
ifed "An aft to enable the Precept and Managers of ,'„l
aid, Schuylkill and Sufqueh?.nnah navigation, ro raise hv
pl* £ a y,° f L r o " e 7' ths f T of Four Thousand
Ps " dollar, for the purpose of completing the work,, in
their acts oi incorporation mentioned."
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars,
I of ten thoufana dollars, Io 000
s of four thousand dollars each, to '
be paid to the pniMors of th c fi ve
numbers firft out of the wheel on the Uii
day's drawing, at which time there (hall
not l;e less than 500 numbers undrawn 20 «rv»
10 of two thousand dollars each, ' 2 o'ooo
ao of one thousand dollars each, 20^000
43 of five hundred dollars each, 21' coo
100 of two hundred dollar® each, 20,'00s
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10'000
420 of fifty dollars each, ,
29,500 of five dollars each, 147^09
re
oi 30,090 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
>ut Six dollar s for each ticket will only be demanded at
ely the time of sale.
All prizes shall be paid ten days after the drawing i s
:ht ftnifhed, upon the demand ol :he polTeflor of a fortunate
for tipket, fubjedl to a deduiftion of fifteen per cent,
r- Such prizes as are not demanded witlfin 12 months
after the Drawing is finifhed, of which public notice
I> will fee given, (hall be confidercd as relinquifted for
the use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the President ajid Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal Navigation— and
the President and Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal, °
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan
— di(h Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mrl
• ler, junr. and Willijm Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and direst the mode of disposing of the
tickets ; which committee (hall deposit the money in
fh Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o.
; n pened for the Lottery.
t0 At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16,'97,
Resolved, That the committee for conducing V.e
Lottery be directed to commtncetlg jdrawirig on the '
firft day of March next.
Extrafl from the minutes,
Win. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball,
'John Steinmetz,
lc S'tandifh Forde,
Francis Wtjl, }> Managers.
' James Al'Crea,
Johu Miller, jun.
, n William Montgomery, _
h J an - th&f.tf
y City of? Washington.
Scheme of the Lottery, No. 11, for the improvement
of thc Federal City.
IC 'lagnificent ) so,ooo dollars, & 7
« dwelling-house, j ca(h 30,000, are 5 • S °'® oo
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 25,003 40,00 a
s _ 1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto JO,OOO & calh 10,000 20,009
I ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
e 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 caih prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are * s 10,000
to do. 1,000 - . iq,ooo
n 20 do. £OO j n t nrit\
d 00 do. 100 . . 10,000
e apo do. 50 10,00 a
», 4c'o do. 35 - - 10,000
Y l>?oo do. 2© - 20,000
r 15,009 do. 10 - 150,000
e
16,739 Prizes.
33*25 i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
' Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the l ast drawn
£ ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets. t
f his Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be erected in the City ol Washington—-
l wo beautiful deligns are already leleiled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropdfed to creel two centre and four corner buildiags,
as soon as pofiible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when coihplete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in .the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necefiary expenses of printing, &c..vand the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Uuiverftty, to be ereclcd within the city of Washington.
The real securities given for the payment <jf the Prizes,
are held by the Prefidiait and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
. Tickets may be had at the Btjik of Colombia ; of
James.Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boston ;
of John Hopkins, Slischmoitd ; and of Richard Wplls
Cooper's Ferry. #o
Will be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On the gth ef March next,
. A P LA N TAT 10 Ni
IN Ridley township, Delaware county, slate of Penn
sylvania, eleven miles frotp Philadelphia, and one from
the great road leading thence to Chester ; eontai niug one
hundred and twenty-three acres, twenty-three of which
are woodland, and eighteen meadow. On the preaiifes
there are, a dwelling-house, barn, and other out-houfes,
in good repair ; a good fprihg of water elofe to the house,
and a fine stream of water runs through the premises ; by
which pait of the meadow is watered, &c.
ALSO,
On the fame day, the ftocfc on thc said farm ; confid
ing of horses, cows, sheep, hogs, &c. A cart, plough,
harrow, and other farming utensils ; also a large copper
fli l, with the household and kitchen among
which are beds and bedding, an eight day clock, and ma
ny ether articles too mention.
The sale to begin at ten o'clock in the forenoon, whers
the conditions will be made known, and attendance givca
an the premises, by CURTIS LEWIS.
Ridley, February 13 14 —uhf tM?
Partnerihip dissolved.
THIS i» to notify the Publie, and all persons concerned,
that the Partnership of BLACK Ms WELLS, deal
ers in Dry Goods, was difTolved the fiifl of January last-
KOBERT SLACK.
Philadelphia, February 14, 1797 tgw
PRINTED BY J 0 H*J FENNO,,
—No. 119 —
CNSSNUT-STRHET.
[Pries Eight Dojiars p«r Annum.;