l - tj vf- A., I (■o.incAltcH,
#a?ette i States, - PhikdSfbiaSiiy fuMer.
ti r
Number 1499.J
For Sale,
remarkably fai
Virginia and Philadelphia
tons. For terms apply to
- Rofs & Simfon.
Ti>ne ta. dtf
For Sale,
The cargo of the hrig Enterprise, Captain
I.angdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
CONSITING OF
524 bhds. of Ckret • "1 2 ••
<ji; cases of * .to 1 10 n
500 c'fes of Sveet Oil S-S -9
no pipes Lflndon proof ? brandy. J 2
pipes of Holland proof 5 J w
Apply to
Wharton or Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
WILL take a FREIGHT for
Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
burthen about fifteen hun
"^°^°S^«Sdred barrels, is in complete ort
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 24 §
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No, 8 Cbefmit'Street}
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly afibrtcd, very low on
(hort credit.
March 6. - 5
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
SITU -TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms
and is io evety refpe<S well fini/hed, For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 31. §
FASHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTtLLtGENCE TO THE LADIES.
JUS.' received from London, (wo trunks o-f ele
gant BRUNSWICK KID Ladies' Shoes, of the
mod fafhtonable patterns and {hape now worn in
that city, and will be fold rff immediately in small
quantities, at firll cofl, forcath, at Mrs. ENEFER's,
No. 105 Walnut dreet, between Third and Foutth
ilreets.
*** The above was purchased of Mr. Fox, in 1
Piccadilly, who manufactures for most of the nobi- 1
lity, and will be warranted good.
J""e 13 Igt |
John Miller, jun. & Co '
Have received per the India, Aflimead, from
Calcutta, ' j
A tvell ajfarted small Invoice if 1
Gurrahs I
Baftas '
ColTaes '
Calicoes
Bengal Stripe* \
Laid in remarkably low, which they will fell for
calh-or short credit on very advantageous terms. '
June 5. diwfri4th
George Dobfon, \
No. 35 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per ships William Pcnn, Starr,
and Diana, from London,
5-4 Super London Chints, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimity's.
Fafhonable Waiftcoatiog, newest patterns.
Ribbands well afForted, in small trunks.
4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and Britilh Book-muf
iins.
Fancy Cloaths and CalTamiers,
Ths whole to be disposed of cheap for Calh
or approved Notes of a fliorr date.
June 14, '97. d.tf.
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice consisting ot the following
Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjumj
Do. do. firif '
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslin*
WILLING FRANCIS.
March 27. 3aw
Millinery Room, !
No. 136 Market Jlreet. <
MISS CHXTSTAL '
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting '
her Friends that she has received by the '
Wix-liam PtNN, a variety of NEW MIL- *
LINERY, &c. which she hopes to be able to 1
lhtrw them in a few days. '
May 18 foot
Just Received, i
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firil quality
ao« half Tacks do. do.
a few Boxts of Slices, eoafifting of I
Nnttnegs,'Cloves and Mace c
For sale by b
ffILLINGS & FRANCIS, a
Peniwflreet. 1
»«ay >0 ' dtf v
Muftcal Injirurnent Manufactory, c
No. 167, Arch-Street. c
HAkPER, liarpfichord, grand, portable grand, p
fid '-board, pier table and fquarc piano forte 0
maker from London, returns thanks to his friends r;
and the public, for their liberal encouragement, F
and hopes that by his assiduity and attention to ev- t:
ery branch of his bufincfs, to merit a continuance 5
of thtir favors. Piano fortes made on the newest yi
and most approved plans, with pedal?, patent,
fwcll, and French harp flop, which he flattei s
himfelf wiH be found on trial by unprejudiced .
judges, to be equal if not fupericr to-any import-
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any ir.llru °
meet pui chafed of him, if »ot approved of in "
twelve months, he will exchange. d
. ' __ ■ w
N. B. All kindsof Musical inftraments made, °'
tv.nid, and repaire« with the greatest accuracy, 3
dispatch, and on the most reasonable term?, Ivr
ready money only.
Second kand Piano Fortes taken in exchange. a
Mty SS. "■
PHILADELPHIA:
To be Sold by Auction,
At the Coffee House on Thu-rftlay Evening, June
29th, at 8 o'clock, the following Lots of groHnd,
• Ctuate 011 Sixth- Street, oppoiite to the State
House Garden : viz.
Lojl x. Beginning at the South East corner of
° George asd Sixth Streets, 21 feet wide and 130
deep. .
2, adjoining lot I, ao feet wide, 130 Jeep.
- 3, ssijoining lot 2, 19 feet wide, 130 feet deep.
4, adjoining lot 3, 19 feet wide, 130 feet deep, »
n 5> adjoining th« iourh fide of the loganian library,
lt 2 ! feet wide, 130 feet deep.
These lots are hounded on the westward by the
30 feet alley that runs from George to Walnut
ilreet, of which alley they have the privilege.
; Conditions of sale, one fourth calh, the remsin
| dtx in approved notes at a 4 and 6 months, with
; liuereft.
Footman'&Co. Auflrs.
1 J uhc dtagth
A (Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
r Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler., in pints and half-pint.
Window Glifs, in boxes, of different liy.es
, __ Hazientits, in fecks
VYbitin®
Copperas ( ,
WhireLtaS C mh ' ,d »
& Spaniib Brown )
For Sale bv
PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 ij.
Rois Sc Simfon,
1 Have for Salt,
A QUANTITY OF PRIMJ-:
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chefls beit
Frelh Hyson and ) T nAO
Hyson Skin J TEAS
Muscovado Sugars,in Hogfbeids r and
Coffee in Tierces 1
March 7. |]tf '<
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Geo- '
tlemen of Philadelphiaand its vicinity, that he '
oontinues to perform all operations on-tbe Teeth ; sup- "
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real "
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing—Gleans, *
files, regulates, ejtrafls, and fills decayed teeth with "
gt-.ld or lead, ice. &c. He waits upon Ladies and "
Gentlemen at their hi uses, and will be happy to ra- «
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No. *
68 north Eighth street, or at hi. house. next to the «
Black Horse Tavern, on the Frankford road. >1
. , , . • Dollars. u
Scaling and cleaning (<
A'tifieial te«h, with enamel, per tooth, 5
Da in gold lockers or screws j
Natural reth u/ifh liga»ur«# y "
Do. on gol-j or ivory lotkfts, or gold screws to
Filingand cutfing away decay—each decay 1
Filling with gold 2 "
Do. with lead , ••
Eotrafting fto the families who employ him '■
as dentist). t
Do. where not employed t
Tooth powder ot his own preparing 1
Itrulhcs, best London manufacture 2j cents.
Regu'ating, Sic. according to the operation.
V C. Whitlock will fell the time of a Negro
Mail ; —he is honest and fobcr, and has about 5 years
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
l»" e 'A
Erlkine's View of the War.
p
JUST PUBLISHED, £
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. a
No. 40 South Second street, t«
[Price 31 Cents] m
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France. c<
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine. w
May 15 f £
GABRIEL DECOMBAZ, 11
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
Eegs leave to infirm the public that be has re* tf
moved his Shop to Ao. 31, South ThirdJlreet, e<
AND HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
( Neatly bound and lettered, price 2 dols. 25 cts.) t j.
Ibe Adventures of Telemacbus.
French and Englilh, 2 vols. i2tno. "
AMONG the books which daily fall into the J u
hands of the youth of both sexes, none
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele- CI
machus. The molt interelling leflow are here iv
conveyed in the vehicle of an interesting Pocn».
replete with the fineft touches of the true pa- di
the tic and erabelllhed with all the graces of a
beautiful style. The fatal effe<£H of indulging j' 1
the pafiions are exemplified in the moll ftnking Jj'
manner ; and the happiness attending itlno
cence and virtue painted in the liveliest colours. ql .
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice j whatever can enlighten the understand- in
inp, charm the imagination, and improve the fai
heart, is to be found in this interelling work. fit
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER; *
: Being a complete Geographical Dictionary, '
containing a full and accurate account, alpha- w ]
betically arrangeef, of all the countries and ifl- i„
ands in the known world ; Ihowing their lati- in;
ude, foundings, and stations for anchorage ; ha
with a particular description ofthefeveralßays, 'I"
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakis, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals, J"
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation as
of the ihape and appearance at sea, of the feve- a,
ral Headlands, Ifthmbfes, Peninsulas, Points, ih<
Promontories, and whatever is of use or impor- he:
tance to the Mailer, Pilot, Commander, or »ef
Seaman of any Ibip or vefll-1, in navigating the 10
watery element. of
bli
Also Comprehending
Ample DireiJltons for tailing into or out of the' 1
different Ports, Straits, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the werld ; and for avoiding
dingers on the various and extended coasts ; in
w'nieh more than twelvethoufanddiftinfl names ar(
of places, are treated of and explained. With Qj
a corretfl set of Charts, 2
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM, 11
£s* This has been pronounced the most ufe
ful vi<i the cheapaft bookptibiiihed in America.
June »i. dtf.
By John Fenno,
| CINCINNATI.
me I A '
jf e '| Members of this P:ate Society ate here-
A by notified, that their anniverfiiry meetin<»
lor the purpole of eleAing officers of the
tv,_and tranfarfling f»<A other business as may
comebetore them, will be held on the 4th day
of July next, in th« State-Koufe, a , I 0 oVlock
in the morning. The pur.aual attendaneeof
i t,ie mem l>ers is'requefted, as a quorum did not
y, a s tc ° <t^ t tt,e ar'jiivcriiry meeting—After
ass is finiflled ' the Socie| y win adjourn
h e to O tilers Hotel, in order to celebrate the birth
ut ot our-freedom and independence. The
-dinner will be 011, the table at half past three
no clock. r
The members of the other States Societies'of
the Cincinnati and the officers of the American
army, >*ho may he in this city oh that day, are
particularly invited ro join this State Society in
commemoration of the dav.
B) order of the Handing committee.
R. PORThR, Secretary-
June a2d, j 7-97.
I he Comniiffioners
, 5 "pOR carrying into «flba the sixth Article of the
A treaty of amity, conirperce aud navigation .con
cluded between his Britannic majesty and the United f
States of America, or. the lothday of November, !
1794, having tbis day conltkuted Board,
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they are ready to proceed to
business accordingly; and they desire that all claims
under the said vticte (whichTo far asthe de
fenbes the cases thereby provided for, Is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged-with their Secretary with
out delay,
1 hey further defircthat ail ftjch claims may not
only state in what manner the lie veral cases come
within the description of tfie said article, but also '
fpecialiy set forth .He nature of- the evidence by
which-thc clairaaDts refpedively undertake to sub- 1
ftantiare the fame.
Extradl from the faicj article,
" M hcrcas it is alleged by divers JJritilh met
" chants, and others his majeft\'s fubjedls, that 1
" to a con {id. ri&le amount, which were bona *
fide.oontra<fied, before the peace, ftil] remain
ovviu<r to them by citizens «r inhabitants of the
Statcs; and that by the operation of va-.
Kt rious lawfnl impediments, fn?ce the peace, not
. 4 oixJy the full recovery o£ the said debts has been \
t( delayed, bwt also the value and Security thereof c
11 have b.eenin fevfral instances impaired and less- (
11 ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial »-
u proceedings, the Britilh. creditors cannot now
obtain and actually have md receive full and 0
adequate compensation for the lolles and dama
* g cs which tney have thereby fuPained: It is a- c
H greed that in ail such cases where full coihpenfa- * c
tion for Aich loflfcs and damages cannot for what- r ]
" ever reason be afiu ;lly obtiined; had and recei
ved by the said creditors ir. the ordinary courfo °
* of justice, the United States will niake full and
u complete compensation for the fame to the said E
" creditors: but it is diftmAiy understood, that i
11 thi» is t« extend to such lofles only as A
" have been occafnned by the impediments
" aforefaid, and is not to extend to Ipftes occasion- t
u ed by such insolvency of the ' debtors or other
causes, as would equally have operated to pro-
duce such loss, if the feid impediments had not
existed ; nor to furh olTes or damages as have _
been occasioned by the manifeft delay, ornegli
'• or wilful omiflioa of the claimant."
By ordtr of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS, £
Secretary.
Philadelphia, CommilSoners' Office, »
No. 3 south Sixth-ftreec, May 19,
J 6—§im
r HE SUBSCRIBED having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Mihkter Pkui
potentiary of his Majetly, General >igent
for aflUliitg British creditors, aud such particutar.a
gents as they may fpecialiy authorize, in prosecuting
iheir claims before the cdmmifi&oners for carrying in
».o effcG the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Qanv
merccafid Navigation kttxtn his Britannic Kfipfiy and
the United States of Amvica, hereby gives notice that
he has opened his office at bis fcoufe the fourli east , n
corner of Chefuut aid fifth ftrcets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to rfceive all claims or
for claims with the vouchers aud document* thereof,
For the purpose of bm<»mg forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may C a
think proper to piefcnbe.
And as it will be for the interest of all concerned,
that the several claim* be so slated/ end support- _
ed, a» to prevent the delay which would arise from j;
the neceflityof obtaining further iuiormation, or ad-
ditional materials,from pertous residing at adiflance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the (
dnc&ion chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the profecuuon of
their claims t© his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to fci forth—
ifl. The proper description and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, relped
ively.
ad. The date or nature of the original contrafl or
debt.
gd. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant whs prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or dcfeCfc of law, the r
decisions and practice <}f courts, or veftraint of «xe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
question, nu
4th The loss and damage incurred or sustained, ve
in consequence of such impediments, whether the dil
lame may have arisen from the infolvenev, change of an
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss ot legal Ci
remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufes impairing fin
the value and Security of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impedimenta had not e( j
And sth The particular grounds and rcafons 6<l ve]
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the nu
treaty, that " by the ordinary court? of judicial pro-
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and aftually .
have and receivp full and adequate compenfariori ,, lor
the losses and damages so fuUaiued.
The general agent thinks it his-duty further to sug
gest that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and lupported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attcfted, both as to the existence
of the debts claimed, and such other circumstances
as may be withm their own knowledge retpe&ively.
And wherever the claimants in dating the nature of
their evidence (which mud m every intfance be the qJ
best of which the ca'e is capable) have occasion to
refer to the teflimony of witneflfes, it will be proper
to apprise the general agent of the names and places
of rehdenoeof such witnesses and the fa£Uto be efta
blilhed by their testimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bih, >797. dim
The Shareholders
OF the Pennsylvania Population Company,
are requested to meet at' the Company's
Office, No. 53, North Fourth Street, on
Thursday the 29th instant, at 12 o'clock.
By order of the Board.
Solomon Marache, Sec'ry.
June 19, dt29*th.
N°-
119 Chef nut Street.
WEDNESDAY JUNE 28, 1797.
• The Gommiffioners
carrying into effect the TWENTY-FIRST
. Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits,
. O and Navigation, between His Catholic tMajetly
:le '. aud the United of America, hereby' give in-
j a ) formation to all Fecfons therein concerned,—T-liat,
>ay in order to terminate 48 d fferences, on account of
'Cif the laires fullained by the C itirens of the Ui.ited
oi Stages, in consequence of their Veffcls-and Car
lot goes having b*cn taken by the subjects of HisCatfi
tcr olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
irn and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
th Office, between the hours of ten.and one o'clock,
he daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
• ee by the said Article, during Eighteen Months
'ro«i the day of the date hereof, and that they have
D [ power to examine all such perfpns as some before
an J" oath or affirmation, touching the eom
re plaints in question, and also to .receive in evidence,
j n all written teftimory, authenticated in fuph man
ner as they lhall think proper to require or admit.
By Order oj the Commifjioners,
"PETER LOHRA,
Secretary. ,
C mmijjioners Office, ho. ro?, Htlulicrrj
reei, Philadelphia, May
Ie ' .. ao—
•J COLUMBIA HOUSE
r, Boarding School.for-young Ladles.
A/TRS. GKOGMBRIDGE with much jjleaf.
ure and refpeil, returns her fmcere ac
-0 knowledgen»en{ for the liberal encouragement
" hni received during four year's relidence in
PiiHadelphia ; and aftiires her friends and the
0 public, so far from intending to dectine her
school, fne-has made a superior arrangement for
. the raore convenient accommodation of her
. scholars.—Every branch of ufefiil polite
j education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
f Groombridge and mailers excelling if> their
. refpeifli\T profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
• J«nejth, 1797-. " firnftf '
The fituatiun is perfectly healthy ; and made 1
more agreeable by an extenljve garden and lot 1
t of ground adjoining the house. '
For Sale, j
At the Office of the Gazette of the United '
States, No. 119, Chethut-llreet, 1
The lafl Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury ; being a brief history of the
state of financial (concerns.of the United States. _
I he.Proceedings of the Executive
of. the United States refpeiting the western in
furreflion : Containing many fai?ls and cir
cumstances no where elio- be-sound. 50
ceo«j.
The Letter of Mp-. Pickering to
our miniiler ih France. 37 j-i cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year _
I? V' . T
A Few copies of the vohiiqe for 1794 may be X
had to complete setts.
DTve>noi«' account of the Revo- J
lution in Ocirev®. I* M cMts. :
■'—— - c
Houfhold Furniture. c
NOW felling by private lale, No. 17 Dock- o
street—consisting s- chairs, tables, looking- t
bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedftcads,
feather-beds carpets, bedding, window curtains,
hed and table hnen, kitchen furniture, &C, The v
whole in good order, and has only been a few c
months in use. p
Tlie sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold. J,
J Bne » § d
Valuable Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
Ac the Office of the Editor Gazette of the
United utates,
No 119 Chelnui-S-.rec:,
[PMCK ONE IGLLAK AN© riFTT CENTBI
A FKW COPIES OF JK t
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795, —
Being the J .at£ st Period to wliicli an account
can be made up. r-
Fcbruaryaa. t.
- - - cs
Nathaniel Lewis St Son,
Have for sale at their flore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latim.er & Son, Pine -fireet Wharf, Ij]
ot
Madeira Wines n
In pipes and half pipes
adelra Walnutsand CitroK. lately imported f
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt.Copia V
Also, BE
IS Puncheons, second and third proof, IVe(L- coi
India Rsm, and a few pipes ef Eranjy .
They have conflantly on hand and for sale,
French Burr and Country Mill Stonrs of various
fizei, and a general assortment of Boultiug Cloths of T/
the best quality, both American and Foreign ma
nufacture. The former having proved, from fe- s
veral years experience of a number ijf miliers in
different parts of the United States at leall equal, CQ|
and in many instances superior to the European
Cloths, we hope, the manufacturer, Robert Dhw
son, will meet with liberal encouragement in this 'V'
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain-
ed a patent and exclusive right of making ani
vending Btult'mg Cloths on his improved plan £>r a P°.'
number of years, and they are (old only by hirp
felf in Lancaster, state of Pennsylvania, and by fP a
the fubferibers in Philadelphia. i p )'
June 14 d acr
for sale,
A pair of very hand/one ;
Bay Horses,
Near fixtcen hands high, well broke, and tier- Rt
fedly gentle. Enquire at Mr. Kelson's iiables, {
Church-alley. , \y,
Also, for Sale,
A Chariot and plated Harness.
June 31. diop
Now Landing
-1
At Pratt's wharf ,
FROM on board the ship 7hom:s Cha'.kley, t
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux, c
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases an ,i
White Wine Vjnegar 1
Red Skins in boxe3
For Sale by
Rund'e Leech.
My i 5
Uni:ed
ST Pfni.fyka-iia DiSrift, j
ills, T N l n "' u^nc e of a Writ diiefled tc
, r f rom l ' le honorable Richard P.
in- Efijuire,. Judfce of the Dili,if* Court oi
hat United Stares in an d for the Pc.infyl ;
te°d P'! tr i a ' Wl ' n be exposed to PUBI.
x *-*> at ' ' le Merchants' Coffee-Hi
on Saturday, the firftof July, at i z o'c
ajn ot noon, The Ship or VefTel called the :
<*. Charlotte,
ii's' 1 °g?thtr with all and fn
ive . ' ar her tackle, apparel
, re furniture, (or so much thereof as may he :
m- ecfTity) the farfse pow being in my cuft
ce, and pciffcffinn, by virtue of a writ of atta
ment lately issued out of the Diflrift Co'
of the United States, in and for the Per
fylvanii Dillria, at the suit of
and others, ltbrllinTs, for yl
gC3 due to them, &l - . as mariners, &c.
WTLLIAM NICHOLS, Maxlhal. £
Marshal's OfSce 1
June 2 7 , , 7g7 . |
• '
United States, 1
Pennfylvania Diftrift, j
> T pUi&Jmce of a Writ direfled to \n
it f ; om the, honorable Richard Peter
B Esquire, Jiid<re «f the Diftridt Court of th;
e United Sta'es, iji and for the Pennfyivaci
■r Diftria, will be expofcd to PUBLIC SALI|
r at the Merchants' Ccffee-Houfe, on Satur
e da 7. 'he firft of July, a'. 12 o'clock at noon
The Sihuoner callcjf The
r Good Intent,
Whereof Samuel Cox is master
Togciher with all and Angular hrr tackle, apparc
e and 'urniture, (ar so much thereof as may be ne
t ceffary) the fame being now in my custody aac
pofleflion, by virtue of a writ of attachment late
ly issued out of the District Court' of the Unitec
Scales, in and for the Peanfylvania DiftriS. at the
i suit of and others, libelants
for wages due to them, &c. as Mariners, Sic.
, WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marjhal.
Marshal's Office, ">
: June 27, 1797. j"
• _ ■
Just Imported,
In the /hip from St. Croix*
( Prime Sugar ani Rum
4C.000 wt. of Windward Island Coffee
A quantity of choice Madeira Wine.
James Yard
South fide Walnut street Wharf.
June 27. d6t
ELEQANTNEWFURNITURE
NOW Selling off Cheap, Confiding of
Side-boards, commode, front, and fafli
- corner tard tables, circular and fqnarc do
circular and square bureaus, desks and chairs
of the very newest fafhion, bedsteads, and
two very complete secretaries, arid book-cas
es. The above articles may be had on ad
vantageous terms, as the owner is about de
clining the business. Persons wishing to
purchase are desired to apply immediately,
in Second a few doors above Walnut Street,
diredlly opposite the city tavern.
2 7- *d;?t.
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship -dive, Capt.BlAla.from
Hamburgh,
30 bales white Ruflia citan Hemp
a caflcs Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, No. 34.
June 26. 5
For Sale,
THE time of a Mulatto M»n, who has about 6
years to fer wt, imdcrftands the care of Hors
es, and is a good waiter.
Inquire of the Printer.
June 26. _ ; Iw
Dispute between the United States
and France.
This day iapubhflied, by Thomas Brabford.No.
8, South Front street,- price 1/4,
OBSERVATIONS on the dispute between the
United States and France, sddrefled by Ro
bert Goooloe Harper, of South Carolina, to his
conftftoents. June »6 —§6t
For Sale,
That -well known place, called Vandeori/j' $
r i t 1 ? t
ON Neftaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ftery stone house occu
pied as atver'n, and a good one story flone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threfhitjg
floor, and i'ome out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most e'.egaijt fituaticn fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefharn
ir>y to its junftion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across so the Jcrfey shore. It has the privilege
of one half ijie toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Snbfcriber,
MURDECAI LEWIS.
Vay 24- 3tawtf.
Beji Englijh Crown Window Glass.
well aliorted Invoiceofthe best Engliili Crown
Window Glass, of the following sizes :
10 by 8 "1
L t V
11 by 9
15 by ia
14 by 10 . 212 boxes.
16 by 12
19 by 14 J
Likewise frelh R-ice, high proof Brandy, best
mess Bief, in half barrels,
Cloth, No. 1. to 8.
Shefry Wine.
A lew hundred weight of tScellect Dutch PiSol
and Ri.le Gun Powder—and,
Thirty Boxes Chocolate.
For Sale bv,
Samuel Brech, Jun.
No. 89, Scnih Thlrd-Jlreet. %
Tunc 11. eoiou
June a:
\jfGLVME XLAji,sok*o QIR^US,
- •" •- • jJL
On tHI)RSDAr, ityh junei
For the Benefit of Mr. Langley.
l/TB. Linglev, the American Equtdtian, ref
.VJ. peftfully informs the Ladies and GentlcmSn
f Philadelphia and itsenvirons, thet every eridea
>c will be exerted to merit a continuance of thole
vois lie has had the honor if experiencing
"he Exhibition v.'ill n;v n with a
GRAND PARADE,
by both sexes.
Mafterty feats of Horfemarlfliip^
y Messrs. Lahgley, Sully, Herman, ind Laifori;
with th<i comic tricks of Ms. M*Donald, in- cha
ffr&er of Olown ; alio, Mr. Langley will clailce
a ttOßNPfi*£? on a fiftgle horse in full fpeedj
With d'ther uhparalelcd feats tod tedibus to iften
tion.
Still Vaultingj
y the E)fßtftrian Performers, in which wili be in
troduced, a Turptifng Equilibrium by Mr. Lang
ley, balancing his body, extended on ohe haiid
in the a< titude of a Hying Mercury—nicplus ulttra
with other exertions which he declines par
ticularifirig.
At. Lailson Will introduce Several new and af
toniflSing feats never attempted by any but hirti
ftlf
The DIFFICULT LE AP over a GARTER,
!y Mr. Langley, who will like-wile ride fitting in
a chair, the horse in lull speed.
Lofty Tumbling.
By Messrs. M'Donald, Rean# and Sully, who will
tu.-n equal to the velocity olafly of a jack the
extent of the Stage.
Equestrian Performarice.
Mr. tangley wili lea'> ff am his hdrfe over seVeral
bars, place in different parts of the Circutj the
horse in full speed, feccveficg his feat on the
saddle at the fame titne.
The "whole to conclude for the last time this season
with the favorite and Grand Historical Panto
mime, in three aSs, called,
Pierre de Provence.
Tickets to be had at the usual places, and of Mr.
Langley, at Mr. BoHfee't, Coffee House, Sbuth
Eifth Stieet.
June ij dst.
Bufli Hill.
Thf. Public are refpeflfully informed that the
Evenings Amusement-os the Gardens for this
week are arranged for
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY and FRI.
DAY.
N. B. They are also reqiiefted to take notice
that the Tavern and Gardens will be ptiblicly open
for general admiflien on Tuesdays, Thursdays and
Saturdays.
*„* Sunday, admhtartc, onie quarter of a dol
lar, which entitles the person to its value in wines,
liquors t»r refre(hnj«nt«.
0" Dinner* drefj'd for parfis? at a day's notice
An assortment of RulSa Cordage,
AMONGST which are three cablet,one of 14,
one of 10 i-i, and the other 7 1-2 inches,
afcd each lio fathoms king
Eofioti Sail Dock, No's. 1,1, J. and 4
Bourbon Cotton, of a very superior quality
Ditto Coffee in bags
lfle of France Indigo
A few bales well alforted India Muslins
Spermacaeti Oil
Ditto Candles
Boston Beef, prime and mess
Co lfifk in hogsheads and tierces
Ditto in quintals
Mackarel in barrels
Heriings in ditto
4th proof Brandy, and
A few kegs of Lard
A LSO,
Just landing froir on board the from Ham
burgh,
loby 12, 8 by io, and 9 by n German Win
dow Glass and a few boxes assorted Dutch Glass
Ware, for sale by
Jo/eph Anthony & Co.
June 27 lot
WjiSHIN'JTON LOTTERY, No. 11.
List of Phizes and Clanks.
looth Day's Drawing—June 17.
No. Dgfj. Ao. Dots. No. Doti. No. Dots.
8a 7 10796 30085 41039
1057 10 16014 180 544 10
418 10? 410 10 569 10
419 20 426 10 926 614
»oi2 454 993 867
038 69? 31077 4i47«
$95 17588 741 43M9
30oj 8«8 856 196
036 18125 10 32066 xo 417 10
cBo 534 126 io 551
444 19169 10 3321® <6l 10
446 811 276 594
483 10392 3 6 3 10 567
4119 45J 10 388 441r0
313 495 883 1,5
461 50 648 10 34581 221
847 10 31669 827 xo 931
5753 11113 997 io 45183
6024 143 1° 35134 649-
661 371 10 817 10 777
7396 10 43048 36127 10 46354 10
606 10 *49 399 855
619 »5& 10 497 47*53
760 308 555 10 581
9*»o 358 581 48441
244 44526 io. 37666 184
846 601 8a» 10 497 10
11985 io 7J5 JO 38084 541
402 46097 xo 924 10 611 10
716 385 917 703
12036 47043 39014 994
189 10 494 066 49 1 53
053 465 555 6 95
870 *B2OO 10 724 734
967 6ix 4C013 814
13310 10 889 45? : 895
499 1° 49059 473
15346 t 917 48» ao
, 101 ft day'i drawing, June >9.
150 jo 9495 26476 39443 to
698 974 ,0 946 10 378
954 10 10165 *8584 i° 669
997, 10 199 29314 jo 40140
1463 389 353 206 10
674 769 363 906 JO
1128 jo 11950 S«S 41438
618 10 18318 535 10 76' JO
. 3345 783 Biß 43 J
4'95 «o 139'4 io 8 0!!8 5 44=79
5*37 '45" 45* 45339
781 547 3'36* 6 74
793 >5762 20 3 105 3 7°5
6149 i6»75 49 1 7 5 4
440 20 17484 ,33*99 46526
458 to 789 33120 857-
775 966 36599 10 47^94
900 10 20.65 10 7°9 102
709" 10 448 37413 3 2 7
206 21897 661 s;;S io
36 j 10
4g5 23601 080 jo 48469
Boii
9190 929 j«4 76*
460 10 25976 579,
jjl- XI)E (sa?etic.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING; JUhE
%-xm ~ ~
OF the united states.
PttbTiJhed by Authority.
FIFTH CONGRESS
OF THE UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the Cily of Philadelphia,
' in the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon
day, the fifteenth day o| May,
one thoufarrd seven hilndred
and ninety-seven.
An ABin addition to an /id, entitled "an Aft
concerning the Regijlering and Recording of
/hips and vejfels".
BE it 'enafyd by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Ameri
ca, In Congress ajfe'rulled, That no ship or
vessel, which has been,'or (hall be registered,
pursuant to any law of the United States,
and which hereafter mail be seized, or cap
tured and condemned, under the authority
qf any power, or that {hall By sale
become the property of a foreigner or fo
reigners, shall, after the passing of this Aft,
be entitled to, or capable of receiving a new
Rfgifter, notwithstanding fijeh lhip or veflel
should afterwards become American prop
erty ; but that all such ships and velfels shall
be taken and considered, to all intents and
purposes, as foreign vefTels : Provided that
ilothing in this Aft contained, fliall extend
to, or be couftrued to affeft the person or
persons owning any (hip or veflel, at the time
of the seizure, or capture of the fame, —or
fliall prevent such owner, in cafe he regain a
properly in such (hip or veflel, ft> condemn
ed, by purcfiafe oi" otherwise, frpm claiming
and receiving a new register for the fame,
as he might or could have done, if this Aft
had not been passed, . -
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOS. JEFFERSON,
Vice-President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.
United States, June2"]th, 1797.
Approved: ~id n-
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
DepoJStid among the Rolls in the Officp of the
Department of State.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary qf State.
BOSTON, June 22.
From Ireland.
Capt. Sprague, arrived here yejlerday from
Dublin, informs, that the spirit of Infurreclion
in Ireland continued daily to Wear a more serious
afpeft—that a Jhort time previous to his failing,
there had embodied in the invirons of Dublin,
above 80,000 men, completely armed, whose
publicly avowed objeft, was, catholic emancipa
tion—religious fredom, and the Independence of
Ireland—that this body of men were encreafing
in numbers, andpraftifedjlrtft order andfubor
dination—that they aided and ajjijled the far
mers in gitting in their crops, intending thereby
tofecure the means of fubfiflence, when Jlrug
gting for their liberty—-that many of the mem
bers of the IrifbparTtament, were friendly to their
cause i and that they had notified the govern
ment, that in cafe of a refufal, to grant them,
what the laws of nature and of God would
jnflify, they would apply for foreign aid, deter
mining toperifh, rather than to submit any lon
ger to drag on a flavifb and miserable txiflence
—He further informs, that the city of Dublin
was in a eontinuedjlate of alarm andapprehen-
Jion —that the -manufaftories were shut up—and
trade of every kind apparently annihilated.
[lt is certainly worthy of rtmark, that none of
our late London papers mention a wotd about the
situation of Ireland ; which, from the above, and
other verbal accounts received here, seems to be
" Jam tvir." There must be a little exaggeration.]
It is with pleafitre we observe, that a resolve
of the General Court, has faffed empowering
the agents for building the State-House, to pro
cure portraits of the illuflrious Governors
BOWDOIN, HANCOCK and ADAMS,
to be preferred in fame pa ft of that superb ede
fice. It is of importaince, that therefhould be,
in all States fame depository of the images of
those, whose char afters have become immortal.
How gratifying will it be to poflerity, to view
the accurate resemblances of WASHING
TON\ and his contemporary patriots, who,
together wrought the great work of their coun
try'sfalvation! While they contemplate the ven -
erablt countenances and figures of those godlike
men, their bosoms will be inspired with a glori
ous emulation to imitate their virtues, and to
perpet uatc the principles of liberty, independence,
honor and truth.
RICHMOND, june 20.
IF, (fays a Correspondent) a peace has
absolutely been fettled between France and
the Emperor, and a treaty formed on terms
advantageous to the Republic ; the dis
advantages which must result to the United
States, at the present crisis, will be incalcu
lable. The Frenph Republic, proud in.her
viftories, and powerful in her alliances, will
stop nothing short of humbling her natural
foe, Great Britain ; and so little can the
fnendihip or the enmity of the U. States
affeft that determination that D e Croix,
with some justice may declare he " will not
condescend to calculate the advantages or dijad
vantages." If, however, France discovers
ever such great benefits which might result
from the two Republics' ftrengtheriing the.
bands of friendfliip ; it is the opinion of our
political vates, that (he will be io bloated
with pride, on her acquisition of her new
ally, as obstinately to refufe the acceptance
of our Envoys ExWa. or give any other ex
planation of her motives than those she has
already adduced.
VICTOR HUGUES.
The God-Father of Weft India piracy,
alecMometime in baft mbnth. When bro't
before the Supreme Judge, for " adjudieu- '
tioh." we hope we will fhi4 more jujlue than
ever lie* displayed towards American veflels
and seamen.
JUNE 21.
Yeftel'diy evening our worthy fellow-ci
tizen John Marshall, left this city in order
to join his colleague, Mr. Dana, at Phila
delphia, from whence they go immediately
to France. Mr. Marshall was escorted 7or
8 miles on the road by the city light-horse,
and an immense concQurfe of citizens. He
Was saluted as he palfed the suburbs of the
city, by "a dilijbarge of cannon—in ihort
etery mark of attention which could be,
was shewn upon this occasion. At parting
with his company, the manly afpeft of the
General, appealed to yield to his natural
sensibility, and not having, at this jnoment,
words to express his thanks for their po
liteness—a tear evinced the. feelings of his
mind, and foretold, that his country's good
rested on his heart. Health to - his person—-
pleasure to his voyage, and SUCCESS to
the negociation.
Foreign Intelligence,
PARIS, May t.
Previous to the signing the preliminaries
of peaoe, the emperor sent to the French
general three .noblemen of the highest rank
in his court as hostages. Buonaparte re
ceived them with diftinftion, invited them
to dinner, and, during the desert, addrefTed
them thus—" Gentlemen, you are free—
Tell your master, that if his imperial majefly
wants a pledge, you cannot serve for one,
and that you ought not, if none be wanted." 1
The Executive Directory have, it is said,
direfted general Buonaparte to demand the
liberty of La Fayette and his two compa
nions in misfortune-—Bureau de Pufy and
Latour Maubourg, It is not to be supposed
that the hero-trf Italy, so diftinguiflied by
every noble and generous sentiment, would
have neglefted to break the chains of the
illustrious viftims of the vengeance and ty
ranny of the English government: but it is
pleasing to fee the Direftory themselves an
ticipating this aft of magnanimity and jus
tice. It is a glorious triumph of the spirit
of moderation over the fury of party.
Meflage from the Direftoiy to the council
of Five Hundred, of the 30th ult.
" We art.cagei - to dissipate by this mes
sage, the uneafiaefs created in the public
mind, and which disaffeftidn and stock-job
bing have attempted to accredit, relative to
the reality bf the preliminaries of peace corr
rcluded betweefr-jeneral Buonaparte and the
emperor's plenipotentiaries. The adjutant
general of the army of Italy, Sole, arrived
yesterday evening with the preliminary stipu
lations signed, which he delivered to the
Direftory. That officer passed through
Germany, and hostilities have ceased every
where. The baiis of these preliminaries,
approved of to-day by the Executive Direc
tory, "are, -
The cession of Belgium by the emperor
anil king.
The acknowledgerresta of the limits of
France, fnch a? they have been de
creed by the laws of the republic.
The e'ftablifhmeflt and the independence
of a republic in Lombardy.
" These moderate as well as honorable
| conditions are the guarantees of the solidity
' and duration of a peace so gloriously con
: quered by the love of liberty, the indefatiga
ble bravery of our brethren in arms, and the
! talents of the generals, who, for lix years,
' have led them to viftory."
This meflage was received by the council
of Five Hundred with the loudest plaudits.
Jean de Bry paid a just tribute of grati
tude to the peace-makers of Europe : he
expreflied the warmest wishes that the peaoe
might extend beyond the continent ; and he
concluded by moving, that the legislative
body should direst the day of the signing of
the preliminaries of peace to be a day of re
joicing.
Paftoret moved that a column should be
erefted to the brave defenders of the repub
lic in the fquareof the" great commune, with
this infeription :
La Republique reconnoiffante a fes braves
Defenfeurs.
The Republic in gratitude to her brave
Defenders.
These motions were referred to a com
miffian.
The above is a literal translation of the
meflage of the Direftory.—rWe shall now
lay before our readers, an extraft from the
Republicain Francais (one of the molt re
fpeftable of the Paris papers) which gives
more in detail the preliminary articles ; and
this intelligence, though not official, may
probably be considered as authentic. It has
been copied by all the other Paris papers.
The independence of the republic of Ba
tavia is recognised by the emperor.
The preservation, by the republic of Bel
gium and the country of Liege.
The French republic shall have, for limits,
Luxembourg, and all the territories of the
empire to the Meufe.
The emperor recognises the independence
of the republic of Lombardy. He receives
as an indemnification a part of the Terra
Firma of Venice—Venice is to receive in ex
change the legation of Bologna and Ferrara.
There is to be a Congress at Berne, to re
gulate the definitive articles. The two pow
ers shall invite their allies to be present at
the Congress, to treat for a general peace.
Buonaparte, to the Doge of Venice.
Head-quarters, Judenberg, 20th
Germinal (April 9.)
In all the Venetian territories in Terra
Firma, the fubjefts of your government are
under arms, fcnd the rallying cry is " Death
to the French!"
The number of the soldiers of the army
of Italy, who have been their viftims,
amount already to several hundreds. In vain
you affeft todifavow those movements which
have been provoked by yourfelf. After I
have carried our arms into the heart of Ger
many, do you believe that I shall not be able
i to rriakp the firft nation in the vyorld be re
t fpefted I Do you imagine that the legion of
Italy will fuffer tamely the maffaeres which
yoti excite ? The blood of oiir brothers in
arms (hall be avenged ; and there is not a
French battalion charged with the million,
which does not feel three tifnes the courage
and ftrenglh necessary to punifli you. The
senate of Venice has returned the blackest
perfidy for the gerierofity with which we
have behaved towards it. I fend yoti my
propofyions by one of my aids-de-camp and
chief of brigade—-War, or Peace. If you
do not immediately take every measure ne
cessary for dispersing the banditti, if you do
not, as soon as poflible, arrest and put into
my hands the authors of the murders which
have been committed, war is declared. The
Turks are not on your frontiers ; no enemies
mfnace you; yet you have fanftioned the
premeditated dpfign of the pricfts, to form in-
I fuhrftion, & to direftit against the French.
I give you 24 hours to difpprfe them. The
) days of Charles VII. are pall. If, notwith
, ftjmdjng the good will the Freriqh govern-
I ment has fhgwu towards you, and I (hall be
1 compelled to attack you, do not, imagine
that the French soldiers, like the brigands
you have armed, will ravage the fields of the
innocent and unfortunate people of Terra
Firma. No. I shall protest them ! and they
will bless the cause which has obliged the
French army to deliver them from yoUr ty
rannical government.
BUONAPARTE.
MILAN, AP"I 1 9-
! Is, or shall the Independence of Lom
hardy be acknowledged ?
1 The following letter from Gen. Buon
aparte, may serve as an answer to this ques
tion :
i Buonaparte to the Administration of
Lombardy.
Head quarters, Scheifling,
16 Germinal, April 5.
Citizens,
You ask me to guarantee your future li
berty ! Do not the victories which the ar
my of Italy every day obtain guarantee it
fufficiently? Each of .our victories strength
ens the edefice of your constitution. Sev
eral viftori«s signalize the opening ps the
compaign, a multitude of prisoners, and
the conquest of three provinces of the Here
itary States. Are not these of more value
than any declaration of mine, since you can
not doubt -either the, interest or the strong
desire ps the French Government declare
you free and independent. Employ your- -
(elves in inftrufting and in promoting the
happiness of the people. Complete the
Legions of Lombardy and Poland. Profit; j
of the moment that the French armies occu- ,
py Italy,to render yourselves a military pow
fcr, without which you cangq£ ffcure either
independence or liberty. Rely with confi- f
dence on those fentiinents of esteem ..which.-,
render me defiroua of obliging yo^i^fiidup-,
on my ardent with to concur in any thing
that can contribute to the^l^^^^^py.;
VIENNA, April 26. 'I
How much peace was wished for, even
on the part of the French, may be feeu from
the following circumftancegi eiJ l
The Neapolitan ambafi'ador, the marquis
di Gallo, general Meerfeldt, and,general
Buonaparte, met in an apartment of the pa
lace of the bilhop of Lepben, and had a lo:ig ''
conference in order to sign the preliminaries
of peace. . •'
In the afternoon of the 18th a number of
ftaff officers and generals of the.French.4tmy, ;
who had been invited by general Buonaparte, ;
were collected in a large hall, where they
waited the hour of dinner : they all knew
the negotiations were begun, but expected
not at all the preliminaries would be signed
that day ; after they had waited a considera
ble time! the folding doors of an anti cham- !
ber were thrown open, and Buonaparte en- :
tered with the marquis di Gallo,and. general
Meerfeldt. He shouted, " Long live the ;
emperor, long live the republic : prelimina
ries of peace are signed, long live the empe
ror, long live the republic ! !" 1
This joyful intelligence was received with 1
the loudest plaudits and testimonies of joy by
all present, which were re-echoed through
all the palace by the attendants, the ferv- ]
antr, and the soldiers. 1
The Plenipotentiaries, Generals, and of- 1
ficers, afterwards fat down to as sumptuous 1
a dinner as theplace andcircumftanc'es would
afford ; and at which the health of the Em- ]
peror, the pj-ofperity of the republic, and j1
the armies and generals on both fides, were j
dranki witti the mgft Joyful acclamations, ' t
Soon after dinner Gen. Clarke arrived, 1
and w?s received with expression of joy. 1
t
PORTSMOUTH, May 9. t
The Star fays, " the county quota men ]
are said to have been peculiarly aftive in the
la*e disturbances on board the fleet. .We !
cannot confirm this report; but we know :
that to the unwise measures of these assess- f
ments, we are to impute the origin of the 1
commotions. The able seamen who had j
fcrved through the whole war, and who had c
originally received 51. of bounty, saw a set
of men, raw, ignorant, in some inftapces '<■
old, in others mere boys, many of them in
ill health, come on board with 30, 40, or 1
even jol. bounty money in their pockets, r
and these men could neither take their share J
of duty in the tops, nor ease the toil of the 1 1
veteran. In several instances they saw them , t
desert to return again with a second bounty, j f
Nay, they have seen them return with a fe- c
cond 40 or 501. "after being discharged as f
unfit for service. This galled the genuine r
seamen, and to this more than to any other c
cause, may be ascribed the confederacy for f
the rife of wages." 1
Intelligence has been received at Copen- "c
hagen from Malta, that,the Danish frigate t
Thetis had arrived there from Tripoli, not v
being able to conclude a peace with the bey.
Before the frigate left that port, a corsair f
came in which had made two Danish prices, r
The Thetis immediately gave ch?fe to the c
- corsair, and drove her upon a rock where
f she went td pieces i the Danish prizes ho.w
---1 ever weee carried into. port.
1 The ftatemtnt which,got abroad on Wed
j llefday of the French Fleet being at sea a
, grin, subsided the next day.. Its being in
; readiness td fail is however still believed.
; The Dutch Contention have issued a ge
t riei-al pardon for all deserters, not excepting
; the Orange party tKat aflembledat Ofhaburg.
f Lord Mazxareen was on Sunday last re
i leafed from his imprisonment in the Fleet.
! HULL, May ij. '
} Of the important public events of last Week mlr
} readers find arapte details in this paper. The
molt prominent article is the present unhappy dif
-1 pute in th» grand fleet— t>f this we have fele&ed 3
- faithful account, both with refpedt to the tranfac-
S tions at Portsmouth, and the conferment proceed
. inga in parliament.
_ Some oi the daily journals have intimated the
improbability of the' Freiich nation now entering
• into a pacification with England. In oppoGtion to
: this opinion, we sincerely hope that it >» the
. of all parties to dose the feene of blood which has
lately deluged the plains of Europe.—ShouW the
Frehth however, rejefl all reafooable overtures
- that may be made by us, with • view to attempt
: ; the invafian of this country, the cause will wear
3 a different complexion ; and if they effect a lawtl
. ing, the confluences must be beyond all conjeeV
j ture or calculation. At all events let us be prepar
ed lor theworft. The present is not the time for
' difeuffing the excellencies of Pitt or the mar its of
■ Fox; the impcrfe&ions of the empire, or the pro
priety of our interfering i i the war—these are
cortfiderations of a secondary order ; the* qaef
tion is, fliill we retain the charailcr of indepen
dence, or basely submit our necks to the yoke, our
'property-to the plunder, and our wives, oar fami
lies' 3c friendsto tl * mercy of—we know not who?
. Forbid it heaven ! If we regard ouirfelvcs, if
love »ur'families or esteem our country, we (hall
unite as one man to " defend the land We live in:"
A meefing of the inhabitants of York was
held at the Guildfcall on Tuesday, convened
by the Lord Mayor, " to take Into confideravion
r the propriety of printing an humble address
and petition to his majelly upon the
state of pubfic affairs, and the necessity of dif
milfing his present miniftrv, as the' firft and
molt necessary step towards the refioration of
trade and public credit, and obtaining a speedy,
' honorable and permanent pesce. An address
• was moved qy Mr. Alderman Carr, (ecendtd
by Mr. Hull, and adopted by tile meeting. Sir
William Miliar, and Mr. Fox arc to prefer.t
it to the king.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
uI " ... Saturday, June 24.
Mrs 'Otis presented a petition from Sa
muel Moore, deputy colleftor of revenue at"
Boston, praying to be excused from the
payment of upwards of 2,000 dollars, 'the
| prop erty of the United States, of which he
had -been robbed upon the highway. Or
-1 derea to lie"on the table.
Mr. Gallatin presented iwo petitions,
fOne from persons in the vicinity of the 0-
hio, complaining of the deficiency in the
, quantity (jfland purchased from the Unl'te<J
States ; the other from upwards of 100 per-
Jans in the fame-quarter, complaining that
, the ywere not able to become purchasers at
the United States sale, from the
of fpecnlators.. Referred to' the Secretary
of the Mreafury. J
Mr. J. Smjth frpm the committee of
revifal and unfinifhed business, made a re
port of expiring laws ; the committee also
exprefied a doubt whether the aft passed
. last fefiion for fixing the next meeting of
'Congress on the firft of November, was not
fuperceded by the prelent extraoVdinary
; meeting.
A committee was appointed to report a
; bill <?n the fubjeft of expiring laws, but
; Mr. Sitgreaves thought it
to appoint a committee on the fubjeft of the
laW for fixing the next meeting of Congtefs,
38 he did not think the present extra meet
ing could affeft that law, since it was the
provinceof the Prelident to call extra sessions
|of Congress ; but it was the business of
Congress to fix the annual meetings, and
" that the two powers could not be
allowed to infringe upon each other.
Mr. W. Smith differed in opinion, and
wished the report to lie upon the table, or a
committee to be appointed to concur with
the Senate.
A committee ofconference was appointed.
Mr. Blount, from the committee ap
pointed to report on the fefolution proposing
to purchase arms, reported it as their opi
nion, that the fubjeft should lie over till the
next fefiion.
Mr. W. Smith thought the fubjeft im
portant, and wished the report to lie on the
| table. It lay of course.
i The bill for providing for the proteftion
s of the Commerce of the United States was
read the tKird time, and the blank for filling
up the number of men to be employed in
the cutters, was filled up with thirty ; on
the question being about to be put on the
palling 'of the bill,
Mr. "Nicholas, said some statements
!iad r been received from the War Depart meat
and ordered to be printed. He had -not
seen a copy of them, but wasinformed there
was.yet wanting 197,000 dollars to com
plete the frigates. He Willed information
on the fubjeft.
Mr. Parker read an extraft fralri the
account,which bad been printed.
Mr. Nicholas wished to knotv how it
happened that in four months so great a
mistake could have happened as to the ex
' pence of finifhing these vefiels. When the
| last appropriation of 170,000 dollars was
made, they were told that sum would be fuf
ficient to make them fit to receive the men
on board;, but now they were called upon
for 197,000 dollars more. He thought this
matter ought not to pais over without en
• quiry, as he did not like to be f.awn from
step to step to do what, if the whole matter
had Dean feeri at firft, they might pot have
"consented to.. He.trusted this Was not in
tentionally done ; but he owned it looked
very suspicious.
Mr. Parker believed the estimate of last
fefiion was only to make the Vessels readj to
receive the guns op board, and did not in
clude the guns.. Mr. Gallatin £aM,_aa lie meant to vote. kno'
against the passing of the bill, he would had
briefly state his reasons for dpiiji so. He larg«
knew only of two arguments in favour of her
the, bill ; the firft, that irwas. necefljiry du- Frar
ring a t-'m'e of peace, to lay the foundation in ft
of a navy ; the other was, that the frigates cont
being built, it. would be proper to man them, den
As to the-propriety of haying a navy, he ed g
did not mean to go generally into , tfie sub- coil
je£t, but he would make a few obfervatipns few
as to our situation for engaging in an efta- prot
blilhinent of this kind. Suppose that navies out
were neceflary in European nations to in- that
crease their power or to protest their com- IN
meree, rhefe confiderati'ons did not apply ufec
to our present circumstances. In order to gat<
prove this, it was only neceflary to take a to a
view of our revenue, and the expences of a une
fleet: *• ma j
The amount of revenue, from the firft t>f was
April, 1796, to the firft of April, 1797, the
received into the Treasury, was 7,400,000 thi
dollars—a sum which by farexceeded that of bill
any former year, and he did not think that fide
the permanent revenue of the United States woi
could be well extended beyond that sum. Pre
For inftatice he did not think that nine thii
millions could be raised from the people tha
without oppression. Indeed, by the best fat;
calculations .on the quantity of circulating ma
medium in the country, it was not allowed wo
to exceed eight millions, and he did not be- Fo
lieve that any nation could ra'ife a larger sum mo
in taxes than was equal to the amount of thr
their circulating specie. of
He should therefore vote against this bill,:; the
because he did not believe we could raise re- bil'
venue equal to the expense of fupportiog a f je£
fleet.; for, although we had a large capital he
in land, we had but a small quantity of cir-, he
culating medium, and from our scatter *1 110
situation", that medium circulated much gh
flower than .in smaller compaft countries ; thi
and it must be allowed that the quantity of th<
revenue which cquld be raised depended on do
the amount of circulating medium. ufi
In order to (hew what the expense of a
navy might be expefted to be, Mr. G. made th
the following statement of the cost of our an
three frigates : to
Dolls. Cts. w;
Amount appropriated in 1794, tn
for the fix frigates, grounded ve
on a calculation then made co
by the committee of 2588 e>
dollars per gun, including fix of
months provisions and three th
months pay 688,888 82 ta
The above sum was, in 1796, w
appropriated to finifli the r)
three frigates, together with oi
a sum before appropriated at
for gallies of 80,000 tl
Amount altogether 768,888 82 fc
In 1797 an additional sum was w
voted of 172,000
To which,adding the sum voted b
for captains 10,000 b
Makes an aggregate of 950,888 82 V
The sum now requisite to finifti n
the frigates, is stated as sol- w
lows: si
Guns and military ' tl
stores 94,809 f«
Hemp to replace a tl
. quantity burnt 16,250 u
♦Labour and trades- P
mens' bills 126,645 t
r
237,704 a
Deduft the balance 1
of unexpended apt
propriation 40,068
Making together 1,148,524 82 ' t
Deduft materials on hand, j f
valued at 1 35>°74 4-® ! ®
Total cost of three frigates as ] c
per present estimates and 1 <
appropriations i»0i3,45 0 3° (
Pay and subsistence for one year
is stated by estimate at 220,000
Which calculation is made on a
supposition that the pay of
warrant officers shall be 14
dollars per month, and that
the whole amount of pay of
petty officers and crews, shall
be 10,156 dollars a month,
but by the bill, the pay of
warrant officers is 20 dollars
a month, and the whole a
mount of pay of petty offi
cers and crew is 15 >OOO dol
lars per month, which makes
a yearly increase of 60,000
Yearly pay and subsistence for
three frigates 280,000
Extraordinaries, infcluding re
pairs, ammunition, &c. 70,000
Total yearly expenditure 350,000
* Iji M a r ch 1 797' 172,000 dollars were
{kid .to be fufficient so complete the three
frigates. In June 1797, it is officially stated
that exejufively of money requisite for guns
and military stores, 126,645 dollars are
wanted for the fame purpose, viz. that of
completing the three frigates ; therefore, no
security that the sum now afkedwill be found
fufficient.
' Thi? statement shewed, Mr. Gallatin said,
that these frigates had cost about 2,0e01.
sterling a gun, though the common calcula
tion, in Great Britain, was only half that
sum. If from building the frigates, they
turned tb the expence of manning them, the
fame conclusion would be drawn. They
found that the pay of an able bodied seaman
in the Britifli navy, had lately been raised
from 26/6 to 30/0 sterling a month, which
was 6 a-2ds dollars ; but by the present
law, 15,000 dollars a month were allowed
for the pay of the petty officers, midship
men, seamen, ordinary seamen and marines,
which averaged from 16 to a man.
When he heard gentlemen stating the
advantages of the naval strength of Denmark
and Sweden to those countries, he could not
agree with them altogether, tho' he agreed
they bad force weight; but it was well
known, that the grand navy of Portugal i JV
had ,no weight whatever in the scale of the J last '
large navies of. Europe; it did nrtt even enable tho'
her to pro.test, her trade : for if either the!
France or Great Britain had the fuperiorit'y and
in the Mediterranean, (he w'a'3 under their I fhoi
controul. He believed Denmark and Swe- I and
den had 30 fail of the line each, and he wish- I milt
ed gentlemen to calculate how much it would I evil
cost us to have fych a navy. A fleet of a I lay
few veflels would not theft be able to afford I cou
proteftion to our trade ; and it was wholly I put
out of our power to a fleet equal to I sea,
that of Denmark tfr Sweden. I ed
Mr. G. went to the second argument | cor
used for passing this bill, viz. that the sri- j veri
gates being now built, it would be proper 1 was
to arm'them. Hie believed the bill to be as I con
unexceptionable and harmless as they could | He
make it, and.the only objeftion he had to it ver
: was the expence. If we were to have war, J nav
the frigates being built, he should certainly j dei
1 think it neceflary to man them ; and if the | ant
F bill went no farther than to enable the Pre- I th<
: fident to man them, in cafe of a war, he I me
5 would vote for it; but it authorised the jin
- Prelident to man them, when he ' should J an
: think it expedient, and as he had told them J ins
* that they and other veflels were now necef- I m<
t faty, he'doubted not he would proceed to I mt
r man them immediately, which he thought j wi
1 would be incurring an unnecessary expence. I ga
- For, if there were a declaration of war to- I be
i morrow, more men would be obtained in I
f three weeks, than there would be in a state I do
of peace in three months ; he therefore j th
;>/; thought it would be proper to rejeft the j pa
- bill, though he had no hopes it would be re- 1 th
a | jested. During the present fefiion, he said, I fe'
11 • he had voted for a number of things which I th
•-! he did not think neceflary, but which were I of
d : not calculated to do any harm. He would Ift
h gladly have done the fame with refpeft to |
; this ; but he could not reconcile himfelf to j w
if the additional expence of half a million of fp
n dollars, for a purpose which could be of no bi
use except in cafe of war. h<
a M. Swanwick believed the expence of w
le these frigates had oeen much greater than fu
ir any future ones, would be. When they were 31
told they had cost 20001. fterHng a gun, it hi
s. was evident there must have been great ex- I
travagance in the expence, as merchants | di
veflels might be built as cheaply in this 1 P'
country as in any .other. He supposed the Ii
extra expence had been owing to the want la
of some regular establishment to overlook tl
the business, and because it had been under-1 p
12 taken at a time when other nations were attic
war, and of coiirfe when materials were ve- w
ry high. Sixteen thousand dollars worth I
of hemp had indeed been burift by accident P
at Bolton. As to the terms of seamen I r
tho* they might at firft be high, when the l b
32 service was known, he doubted not they .1 g
would fall. I n
But it was said a small naval force would I c
be of no use to us. He thought it would 0
be of great use, from our contiguity to the I i
82 Weftlndies ; as, in cafe of hostilities com- I c
mitted upon us by any Europeon power, I t
we might at once fall upon their rich poflef- I
fions in that quarter. Our experience in I v
■ this war,-he said, had proved the use that I 1
such a fleet would be of to us. Indeed, I 1
the French had frequently charged us with 1 a
not protecting our trade, and seemed to re- I 1
primand us for our weakness. And, when I ]
they heard of small row-boats taking our t
merchant veflels, did not every man wish for
a small naval force to protest our trade ? I '
He trusted they did ; and these veflels would ,1
be of great use in this way. Besides, Mr. I
S. said, can any gentleman believe that the I
European powers will be able to keep up
82 1 their present enormous naval establishments I'
I for any lengh of time ? He did not believe I
48 they could. Mr. S. did not think because I'
j our circulating specie was not more than I
i eight millions, that our taxes could not ex-1
30 . that sum ; as, besides specie, there was I
I a large quantity of bank paper. Nobody I
would believe that the circulating specie of I
Great Britain amounted tb twenty-five mil I
lions ; yet their annual taxes Were to that I
amount. Tn England he knew the use of a I
paper medium had been greatly abused ; I
but the abuse of a thing could not argue I
against the use of it.
Mr. S. was firmly of opinion that, in the j
course of time, this country must become a I
great maritime power ; and he doubtod not I
that in time of general peace, armed ships I
would be built for half the price which they I
had cost.
He hoped, therefore, when his colleague I
had obtained his wish (in which he had wil-1
lingly concurred with him) in reftrifting the I
use of the • veflels, he would not now vote
againu the passing of the bill.
1 Mr. J. Williams said, he had always op- I
posed the establishment of a uavy ; and was I
1 the question now, whether or not we should
\commence a navy, he should certainly be
> against it; but, as the frigates were so far
were advanced, he thought they ought to finifh
hree them, especially when they confidfred the
:ated present critical situation of our affairs ; for,
guns if a general peace did not take place in Eu
are rope, the war would probably become a ma
it of ritime war, and we might be involved in it.
e, no But, he was still of opinion, that if we must
ound go into an expensive naval establishment for
the proteftion of our commerce, we had
said, better have none. But, fay gentlemen,—
3col. where will you find revenue ? He believed,
cula- though we had no armed force, a confidera
:that ble commerce would still be carried on, and
they those who decline it, would turn their atten
, the tion to agriculture and manufafteres, from
rhey which any deficiency of revenue would rea
aman dily be supplied.
•aifed It was true, as had beeu stated, that they
idiich had been called npon from time to time for
efent additional sums to complete those frigates,
owed and he knew not when these calls would end.
Ifhip- Mr. Williams went into a calculation of
rines, the expence of -these veflels, and compared
man. the situation of this country with Europe,
■- the and concluded that it would be our best po
mark licy to stand aloof from all foreign powers,
id not He would however, go so far for the pro
greed teftion of our corn'mere as the building of
> well fix frigates: Furtherhe should not chufe to go.
Mr. Giles "'as obliged to the g^Reiiviii
last up for his fpssch against the prefer]t bill, J' '
tho' he meant to vote for' it; lie would ra
ther, however, that he had fpktn in favour, vot
and voted against the bill. Mr. G. said he of]
fhpuld vote : against the passing of the b;ll, to
and for the reasons assigned by that gentle- **ia
man. H,e thought a navy would be a' great '
evil for this country. Our great interests
lay in- the foil; and if ever the vitals of the q
country were tof be drawn together for the na ,
purpose of.pro'tefting our commerce on the of
sea, he (hould greatly lament it. He believ
ed the despotism of nations-kept pace ac- r
cording to the ratio of expeoce of their go- ex l
vernments. He was sorry to fay that he
was more and more convinced that it was the nO ,
conftaiU aim of some gentlemen in that yo
House tb inereafe the expences of olir go- th<
vemment. The propriety of establishing a w:
navy had scarcely ever been seriously eonfl
dered ; it was tirft begun Under an alarm, w *
and it had been continually carried on by
the-fame rae?tns. Mr. G. adverted to the ft,,
methods employed to raise men by prejfmg of
in all count I'ies where navies were eftablilhed, tei
and insisted that navies. and prejf-gangs were
inseparable ; for, said he, tlie wages of sea
men are now 30 dollars a month, and v;hen °
men are wanted for the frigates, the price I
will doubtlefe be increased, and tjieprejjf- ha
gang must be resorted to, 01- the navy must tic
be abandoned. I fh
Mr. Harper said, gtntleman fcem to aban- I P r
don their ohje£lions to this bill, by admitting P r
that (here was no probability it would not
psfa lint why? Eiecaafe either a majority of th
the house think the meafurt is proper in it t |,
fe!f, or from the particular circumftanccs of r y
this countiy. It was fnrely a fmgular inrtauce th
of mffldefty, in gentlemen, after this con- «
session, to argue against the passing of the bill, 'j
Mt.H. did not adtfiit that these frigates y
were commenced from an idea of laving th# w
foundation of a large naval eftablilhment; h
1 but frofa particular lircumllances; and, said n
I he fh ill we, at e time whan we ate threatened 11>
1 wiih danger, abandon tliem? He trusted not;
1 such a condujft wouidbe abfurdin the extreme "
;| and imply a charafter of imbecility, which I
E fe? hoped their cSuncils would never deserve. I (l
Mr. Hi agreed thai our government depen \f e
sj dednpon theaffeflionsof the people for itsfup- I
I port ,bm how were these affedionstabegained ? I ti
; j It was by a dignified, en- I
t larged, and confiim"d policy. By these means I
i I the cotmtry would bocome Urong : and if the I
- j pepple saw their gbvtrnment, from the paltry I
t ids.a of expence, abindon its rights, they le
- I would not care what became of it. I''
l> I The principles of the gentleman from I "
t Pennsylvania would be con eft if national | 0
- I rights, dignity and honour, could be fettled 1 1
eI by counting house calculations. If so all I c
y I governments might ke abandoned; no public I
I measure could be catrred into effeft; finee it j
d I could not be said of|ny that it produced as I a
d I much money as it but if they were ufeful T c
e I in protesting the rights and liberties of the 11
1- couutry, they were c- ttainly more to be prized I
r, I than money. I'
f- I Mr. H. denied thatnaveis in e,very eountry I
n I were fupporlfed 'by press gangs: -those of I ]
it I Holland, Sweden Denmark, France, and I]
I, I Portugal were fupporied wiltitnit-itfipfeffment: I -
,h I and in England a-vety fmallproportiooof the IJ
e- I men employed on board their fleet were im- I ,
in pressed. It was only on fuddeo emergencies I:
ur I that this praftice was resorted to. 11
yc AH that would be neceflaryin this country 1 :
- I would be to give fomewbat higher wages I'
Id I iban the British. He. hoped theiefore thr I
t. I bill wopld pass. I
:K I Mr. Allen said, he had some objeftions to the I
'P I paffihg of the bill, but his objeSions -Mere to the I
lts I amendments -which had been irtroduced into it, I
vc I yet~he did not ltnnio but he Jhotld vote for it. I
He thought there was a prapffion in the I'd- 1
an I which went toprojlrate, this givernmcnt. He I
x " I alluded to that part of it which d'treSed the j
,as I manner in which the force fhetld le used. He j
I conjiclered this as a violation of the conflitution; I
. I bejides carrying upon the face of it an idea that I
I one of the branches of this goitrnment colild not I
lat Ibe trusted with the exercise of lis power. Was I
a I it pojftble, he ajked, for a government to exist,
I when this confidence was refhfed to one of its I
ue I branches ? What were the pe<ple of the United I
I States and abroad, to think of this? Would not I
I the people of this country thlnl it their duty to I
e a I deflroy a power which could not be trujled,cuid I
J Ol I would not foreigners despise ifP It seemed as if |
'P s I this were the intention of gentlemen.
ie y I Mr. St. also objected to the clause limitting I
I the 'duration of this bill; finct this went to fay I
r l _ R ' I that they not only d'tflrufied the other branches of I
I the government, but themselves. A thing which I
| mujl in its nature be perpetual, was there limi- I
Dte I tea. I
I He deprecated the idea of expence being an I
°P" I objedion to this measure. Our emancipation I
vas from the chains bf Great Britain, he said, was I
11 attended with a great expence; but was it not j
believed, that the liberty and independence of this I
( ar country were offuperior value to money ?He I
trufied they were. He could only suppose, I
t^le therefore, that men who objectedagainfl the-ex- I
" or > penfe, mujl themselves lefrdid and avaricious. I
u " If these frigates had beetj provided four years I
ma " ago, he believed all our prejent difficulties would I
1 have been prevented,and a sum vnfily less than
ll, ft that of which we had been robbed would have
or done the business. ' Ms. A. denied that Jhips
of war could now be bulk in England for
» VXS&cA. Jterßng a gun; that was formerly the
'ed, price; but they noli) cojl 15601. per gun.
era- concluded that it was not wonder
andj jut [ t fjj a f mcn w ho have been opposed to every
ten " valuable measure which had been brought for
rom ward since the existence of the government,
rea " Jhould also be opposed to this.
Mr. Brookes said he Jhould vote for this
hey bill because he believed a naval foree-mufi sooner
' f° r or later be the real defence of this country ; be
ites, cause, if he were not in favour of a naval ejla
-nc'' blifhment, the.frigates being so nearly completed,
1 01 he Jhould ivijh to complete them; and because,
wed upon a review of our fixation, he could not
3 P e > think we were free from danger in rejpefl to
P°" our foreign relations, ani that though three
" ers - frigates would not be an ample defence, they
P ro " world be better than noue. .
\of Mr. Giles wished to make a remark, or two
>go. on what had fallen from the gentleman from
follow him through all his ravings lie char
ged the bill with being a vitiation sfti&coijiitu*
tion, -yet, in the, next breath, laid lie Ihould
vote fir it- He wrtililiemir.il that gentleman ' (
of hn qualification oath, wherein be had fct'tyn
to ftppert the coiifiitution. And were that , «
man to be proclaimed .. profceElor of the liberties.,
of/his country, exclaittied Mr. G. who Ihall firfi
declare a measure to be unconftitntionat,""arttF M
dill vote for it ! The idea seemed absurd. Mr.
G. defended \vhat lie hat! hefori said about jijl;. ar
navies being fwpported, more or less, by meafis
{>£ impediment.
Mr Nicholas had always been of opinion,
that the expense of these frigates was a useless
expense jhe did not believe a ease could hip- " r
pen, except within mir own jurifdiftion, where '
s could be of advantage to us ; but
notwithilanding this was his opinion, he {hould g (
vote for the palling of this biH, because he saw ( - c
the sentiment of that house and of the publit
was fttoiigly in its fav>r, from a pei-fuafion that er
the measure was necessary, and that the thing j e
would be a continual topic of dispute until.it
was carried into effeiSl.
He was willing, therefore, that the ve fie Is j )£
(hould go to sea, believing that nothing short ,- e:
of ailual experience weuld convince the firppor- at
ters of this measure that it was nfelefs, expen- „f
five and injurious ; and hoping that one year's
experience of the plaything, finding money was (j,
of greater value than the frigates, all parties c h
| would concur in the relinquithing it. re
Mr. Sewall said, that the argoments which
hid been used against this bill for the protec
tion of the trade of the United States, went to
(hew that commerce was useless aud that the
I prote<slion of it would be expenlive beyond any
I profit which could be derived from it ; and fame
I wild voted for the parting ofihebill, did it from
the prolefled motive of giving the thine a trial, .
I that it might afterwards be abondnned. Gen- V
tlemen who depended upon agrictikine fur.c\Fe- °\
ry thing, lie said, need not put themselves £ft ei
the expense of protedlingthe commerce ot the C!
country ; commerce was aide to prottfl B
if they would only fufTer i; Jo,do fn, I.a t.'joft
Yjlates which live by aw%nerce beffurutej.by ,
' \ the,confederacy. ( Mr, Varnuin wilhed to know
' whether this was in prdcr.) Mr. ?. went on;
I He had in his eye people who lived by edm- t
I merce, and hi could bet timlerftaftd that thty a
I I lived by the mere good will of the union- Let 1 p
. them, said he, be abandoned, but lei it be done j t;
' before they are reduced to poverty and wretch-.; v
I cdnefs. Their colletled iniufiry and pro erty ] •
1 I -vas equal to their own prctekion, and let ftp-'
1 I er parts of the confederacy take cafe of them- ' 1!
I [elves. 1
■ I Mr. Macon thought the gentleman hidtet- j
? j ter lay a refelution o* the table to produce the J
[ ef&a'he wilhed. This was such language as .
I he had oever before hear-d in that house.
' I The Speaker declared the gentleman had J
' I been wholly out of order. '
' I Mr. Gallatin rcfe to oblerve upon what had fall- t
' len from the gentleman from Maffachttfetfs, when j
I the speaker interrupted him, faying, th»£»J' re-
j I marks upon what lhad fallen from that gentleman
, I would be equally out of order. Upon Mr. G's.
I observing, he did not mean to fay any thing Jipon 1
1 I the fubjefl of a ftparull.n, he was fuffered to pro- j
I I ceed. t
• I He said his opposition to this- bill did-not arise . <
,~| from a dilinclination foproteft commerce •, he 'ook-
I d upon the intereft»-ef agriculture ard commerce c
s Las intimately connected ;it w as because he believ- t
1 led these frigates would not afford that proteition ;
e I which was ejpefled from thefn., .**„ * ,
j I The question was then taken on- the faffing of ,
I the bill, as follow :
YEAS.. ... .. '
C I Messrs. Allen, Baer, Bradbury, Brookes, Bryan, .]
»f | Burgtfs, Champlin, Cochran, Craik, Dana.Da ven- ,
[} I port; Pavis,Dcnnis,Dent,Bge, Elmendorff,Evans, (
... I A. Foster, D. Foster, Fowler, J. Freeman, N Free*
I man,Gillifp"ie,"Cf!ehn,'tJatrtliich,GoT i
6 I Grove. Hanna, Harper, Harrifon, Hartley Hind- !
j man, Holmes,H«fmer,lmlay, Kittera, -
■ 8 I Lyman, Lyon, Machir,Matthews, Milledge, Mor- J
1 gan, Nicholas, Otis,Parker,Potter,Reed, Rutledge, ,
v J Schureman, Sewatl, Shepard, Sirini kfOn, Bit-
I greaves, J' Smith, N. Smuh,
P& I Thatcher, Tliomas, Thompson., A>'
lf I I'rig?, J- Trigg, V«n Aku. Van Cortlaqdt, Wadf--
wortlvj. Williams, R. WiUiams— 70..:
r I t N A 1 b. 4
* MeflW. Ealdwin, Bai'rd,' Blount, Bretit,
' e j horn, Clay, Cloptr.n, Coit, Dawfon, Gallatin, Gile* 1 , •
t, I Greg?, Haven*, Jones, Locke, Macon, M'Cl»na»
t. I chin, M'Dowell, flew, fkipner, W. Smith, (P )
■j! I Stapdfotd,Sumpter,-VaQiij(n, Venable— tj. '
, I Ihe title was altered from an aA to protect (
, I the commerce cf the' Oi.ited States," to "an IA.J
)e I providing a uav:d arm';- *jk " ■ ""
le I A communication friiiii thr. Secretary . the. I
,« I freaiury wasroi lt cal)» .for sundry additional
„ t I appropriations, to the amo.utst of
llt was referred to .the cumtnittee of ways and
0 I means,and ordered to be printed. j
as Vlr. W. Smith iVd, in th.e year 1794; 'When this
<?, I country had a nnfunderflanding with Great Brir
fts I aia, it was thpught proper to mvefl the Prcfident
ed I wlt h power to an embargo, if necessary, dtir-
I ing the recifs of cpugrels. He proposed to trust
10 I him with a fimi(ar~powers at prefer,t, and for that
ta I propofedti* following-rtfu'rution : !
id I " Refo.ved, that a comnvittee be appointed to
if I prepare and report a hill empowering the Prendent
I of the United States to-lay and revoke eirfiargoes,
I during the recess of congress." Ordered to lie
IS I upon the table. •
ay j On motion of Mr. Coil, the house went into a
of I committee of the whole on the bill fotdayiog li
ch I cenccs upon the retailers of foreign wines aiid Ipi-
I rits. The bill imderwsnt-fome difcufiion,as tnthe
I propriety of making the price of liccces the fame
I to large and small venders, and us tothe amoi|?K
an rto be cliargcd upon-the licences for retailing, the
on I different defiriptions of wine. , 1 ,
<as I i'hc difference hetwist the pre Tent bill, and that
nt J how propojed, we understand to hi. tnat by* tha-t
~ I now in force, one license is only taten for felling
I all forts of wines and spirits, whereas by th; new
I bill a separate licence is to betaken out for every
fe, I kind of l'ortign wine and fpiritsfold.
.v I The committee rose and had leave to fit again.
I Adjourned. ,
us. I ...
S For. Hamburgh,
a " THE. SHIP
' VI I rfttC Pen & SYLV ANIA,
'f S I rtAvm Williamson, Mafler,
f x YING at Willing"swhirf —she is now ready to
I A_j take in, and will fail in todays. For terms
I of fre'ghtor passage, apply to
'c- Gurney & Smith.
sO" I June 28. _ ,_§ lot .
° r ~ I health-Office, Philadelphia, Ith June, 1797.
npHE Board of. Health offer to rent out the NEW
J. CITY HOSPITAL, ufoally called The Wig
'his warn. /" .
ner It may be occupied as a Tavern, for. which there
1 are excellent accommodations. Ihe person taking
. lit must be capable and williag to act in the capaci
i'a - t y of a Steward ;in cafe a contageous disease in
'ed, t h e c ity, Ciould at any time render it necessary to
life, makeufc-of the premises as a Hospital. It cannot
n of therefore be let for any limited time—and the red
~. r aimed frame building; is to be reserved. ProptfJh
in writing will be received at thin office until the
ee - /tb of July,-dating What rent will be allowed uti
rhey der the foregoing chrcumflances.. None need apply
without being,sale to produce the. ljisft reconjmend
two ations. 'JOHN MII.If'ER, "J""-
rom June 17 Chairwap of the Of Health.
Xtjc <ga?ette. r/7
, ' If 1L- A Ih'i: LPft JA , .
WEDNESDAY EVENING, June _<§.
'* ■mm——wi ' " I—*****1 —*****
Yeftefcby aftefuoon arrived in town JamiS
Monroe, Esq. aad Family, from
The {hipAmicy 111 which they came" paffengcrs is
in the river below, in fifty days.
Mr. l)r. la Forest, General of
France, came paficJlger in rhe abdve ship.
'The anth.con{HtutiQnal fasiot> are tirglftg meaf*
Uses which-are to the feelings, vi ws and
hfgh eXpe&ations of the people in the e&ftefo and
northern State?, and direftly Calculated in the if
consequences to produce a - schism in the Uni:ed
States, and yet, the impudent organs of this sac*
-tion, when the solemn warpipg of the fatal ten
dency of these meaftifes is giyen, have the effront
ery to charge the friends of the constitution with a
design to fuhvert the Union.
A CorfefpondeiitTays, tliat many peffons haVd
been puzzled to arcourt for the indifference than!*
fefled by the Hovffe of Repr,efentatives at the late
"attack on the freedom of debate, when the feeling#
of a former House were tremblingly alive on a fim
iiar occasion. Fte fuppofci* howaver, that ic is c'on
fidered as a very different thing for a Senator to
challenge a Representative, from that of one Rep*
refenfative challenyrifi? another.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, June 27.
Extraordinary Duel.—An affair 01
honour of a very extraordinary nature took
place "a Ujort time since in the neighborhood
of Waterford, in Ireland a young phyii
. cianqf that place having been grofly infillt
ed, as he conceited, by two officers, de
manded fatisfatlion, and, in-order to make
fhqrt work of it, determined to fight them
both at once ; this challenge Was accepted,
and all three of them met the rtext morning,
the phyfiaafc fta tiding in a line betv.'een his
adversaries. with a pfftol in .gach hand,
pointed to both of them: all the comba
j tants fell on the firft fire, the physician was
t Wounded in the breast, orte of hi'S opponents
; wa"s' (hot" ThFOTgh-tte -knire, and the other
lin his right fide but they are all recover
ed.. » > -v - v,
HARTFORD, June 26.
The public have been much pleased late
ly to find by the newspapers, that the ra
tional and pious praftice" of duelling has at
length obtained a footing ib Congress, and
that it meets with such countenance from
the members. A year or two ago, Mr.
Gunrt, of the Senate, challenged Mr. Bald
win, of the House of Representatives. Mr.
Baldwin declined, undoubtedly in compli
ance with the stern dictates of the old reli
gious "notions which he imbibed during the
time of his prfrachfng. The house made
a great-uproar at that time, on account of
their privilege's, dignity, &c. and, probably,
as Mr. N Baldwin was a very fuperftitioufly
piou»: Jnan, his cpnfeiepoe forbade him to
fight, however much his flefh might have
desired it. In the late instance, Mr. Blount
.has aftedmore wifely", by challenging a lay
man, and congress seem to applaud his con
duct by silent.testimony at least. And as it
may now be considered as compatible with
'the duty of the members of the highest le
, giflative body in the United States, to fight
• duels, or at least to challenge each other, it
' is devoutly expected by the people at large,
especially in the eastern states, that for the
future, all queftiotis may be fettled in this
- amicable way. This plan will give our
southern brethren an advantage, which they
are entitled to from their superior patriotism
—A» they are the bpft marklnjen, theypro
babjy will thin ojf the northern members, so as
) to-fscHfjiJUi; fhemfehes fhartly a decided majori
' ty—and then, huzzu for france and df.mo
t , CR/JCr. ,
- EXAMPLE IS CONTAGIOUS.
k | Two ncgroerTrntytftiou pkrt of the country
' ftU.into a dispute about a wcnch. One of them
f in virtue of:a marriage covemnt -bad the ejfr n
tery'to monopolize 'tier to himftlf.- The other,
? who is a. difSjile of Godwin:, declared that all
' monopolies were contrary' to th'e spirit of
' government andfluty/ling bfytEf' in the read of
V human perfectibility 1 he therefore ordered tic
x Venus to .hold krfelf in a flat e of " requisi
tion". " Gorva dam hty black crop, Maffa
0 fays the hufbanif," you better lettfr he
- l be." They form began to dfyuie, and The re-
fu'.t was a challenge. The affair,\ has made a
great deal of noise, and'the magi/1 rates have
a been anxiously waiting to know- what Congress
f would do with Mr. Bl'junt in order that they
£ might adoi'pt the fame mode of'puni/ljmentfor
t the negro who gave the challenge. tVe hope
it therefore for the fake of the negro, that Mr.
Ie Blount will efcapc.
MONTREAL, June 5.
On Friduy la<l, between the hours of twehs
jt and one in the afternoon, afire broke out in a
w wooden house in the Quebec ■Suburis of this city,
y which entirely consumed the fame with another
adjoining, and feerned for a time to threaten a
dtflrudion to the greater part of the Suburbs ;
- there being no wind, it was fortunately exthi
guifhed by the vigilance, adivity, and timely
exertions of the citizens.
. GAZET TE At A RINE LIST.
Pout of Phi la delph /a>
A R KIV ED. DAY 3.
to Snow Pearle, R-uyter, Bremen
ns Brig Currier, Burr, Gonaives
Schr. Isabella- Mercer, Surinam
-Sloop Sally, Potter, Richmond
Hannah, Der.yke, New-York
7. The ship Fabius, Corran, from Cadij ;
W the (hip Amity, from Bourdeaux, and a
'S~ brio-, nrme unknown are below.
, r The (hip Aerial, brig El:2a, and -snow
ng Boston, with several others, went to ft a on
ci- } Saturday last.
in Bojlon, June 21.
tn Arrived, ship Commerce, Curtis, 45 days
?t<i f nm Liverpool. Spoke nothing; failed in
L company with the late arrivals from that port.
the Same day Jhip ].Lydift, Sprague, 50 days
from Dublin. Left there ship Charlejlon,
Vb Qaies, bound for Lijboni capt. Leighton, of
• Rhode Island, bound It Rujia. Spoke nothing
h. but <uhai is arrived.jjf Proposals
For carrying MA IL Sos the
United States on the following
Pofi Roads, will be received
at the General Pojl-Office, in
Philadelphia, until the 3 \JI
day of July next, inclusive.
* MAINE.
1 Frcm Brewer's or Scoodie by MachiaS, Chan
dler's r.vsr and Columbia, to Narraguagus once
a Week.
Leave Brewer's every Saturday at 2 P M, and
arrive at Narraguagus the next Tuesday by 6 p
m—Returning, leave Narraguagus every Wednes
day at 6 a m, and ariive at Brewer's the r.ext Sa
tnrday by 10 a a.
2. From Narraguagus by Gouldfb.-irough, Sulli
«, n,Trenton,Bluehill, Cuftine, Pertebfcot, Buckf
ton, Frankfort, Frofpeft and Belfaft to Duck-
Trap once a week.
Leavs Narr'aguagus every V/ednefday by 6 a
m. and arrive at Duck I'rap the next Saturday by
XC AK. Returning• Leave Duck Trap every Sa
4tuday by-.ru and arrive at Narraguagus the
Ocxt Toefday by 6 ? m,
3. From Duck Trap by C..mden, Thomafton,
W;rrer>, Waldoborough, Newcastle, Wifcaflet,
Bath, Brunfwick, Free pott and North Yarmouth
to Portbnd once a week.
Leave Duck 1 rap every Saturday by 3 p m, and
arrive tt Portland the nextTuefday by 6 p m. Re
timing. Leave Portland every Wednesday by 6
a OTjiind arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by
JO A M.
4. From Portland by Biddeford, Welles and
Yi rk, to I'ortfmsuth.
April 15 to October IJ. Leave Portland every
M i day, Wednesday and Friday by 6 am, and ar
rive at. Portsmouth the fame day- by 6 p m. Return
i'.g. Leave Pcrtfmouth every Mot.d. y, Wediief
dey and Friday at 9 p m, andarriveat Pcrtland on
the next day by 6. p m.
ofider 15 .0 April 15. Leave Portland every
Monday and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at
Portsmouth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 A M. Re
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Tuesday and
Friday at 1 p 1.1, and arrive at Portland every
Wedeefday And Saturday at 5 p m
J. From Portland by North-Yarmouth, Frer
psrt, Brunfwick, Bath, WifcalTet, Drcfden, Pittf
tcn ap.d HallowellHookto Hallowell court house,
once a week.
Leave Portland every Friday at 8 A. M, and ar
rive at Hallowell court-house the next Saturday by
7P M. Returning. Leave Hallowell court-house
every Wedmfday by 5 A M, and arrive at Port
land on Thursday by 6 P M.
6. Frcm Wifcaffiit by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo
well Hook, Hallowell court-house, Winthrop,
Mormouth, Green, New-Gloucester and Gray to
Portland once a week,
Leave Portland every Monday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Wifcaflet on Wednesday noon. Ritufn
iitg. Leave Wifcaflet on Wednesday at 3 P M, and
arrive at Poitland on Friday by 6 P M.
7 From Hallowell Hook by Vaflalborongh,
Fort Halifax, Winflow, Fairfield and Canaan to
Nr rridgewok once a week. I
Leave Halle well Hook every Wednesday at n <
AM, andarriveat Norridgewock on Thurlday i
by 6P M. Returning. Leave Norridgewock on
Monday at 2P M, and arrive at'Hallowell Hook '
on Tuesday by 6 P M.
8- From Hallowell Hock to Farmington on San- !
dy river once in two weeks. 1
Leave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8A M, and arrive at Farmington by 6 P M. '
Returning. Leave Farmington every other Thurf- 1
day at 8A M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook by 6 t
PM.
9. From Portland by Falmouth, Gotham, Bux
ton, Standifti, Limerick, Parfonfield, Shapleigh \
and Lebanon toJßcrwick, once in two weeks. '
Leave Partial!:; every other Monday at 8A M, ,
and arrive at Berwick on Wednesday fcy noon. i
Leave Berwick every other Wednefd:,y at 2 Pr
M, andarriveat Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
10. From Standifh by Flinftown. Fryburgaca ,
demy,Conway and Tamworth to Sandwick in New '
Hampihire once in two weeks. £
Leave Standifh every other Tu«fday ky 8 A M,
and arrive at Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning. Leave Sandwich-every other Thursday at j
8 A M, and arrive at Standifh on Friday bv 6
PM. 77
11. From Wells by Waterboro', Sanford, Dough- 1
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portsmouth once r:
a week. L
Leave Wells every Tu fday-by 6 A M, and ar- J
rive at Portsmouth en Wednesday by xc A M. Re- 31
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Wednesday by ai
2P M, and arrive at Wells next Thursday by 6 ai
P M. V
. A
NEW-HAMPSHIRE. N
12. From Portsmouth by Dover, Rochester and ai
Moultonborongh to Plymouth, returning by New- ,s :
Hairpton, Meredith, Gilmtntswn, Nottingham d;
BPd Durham to Portsmouth once in two weeks.
l eave Pcrt'znouth every other Wednesday by 8
AM, ar.d arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6 al
PM, Returning. Receive the mail at Plymouth
every other Saturday by 8 A M, and return to at
Fortfmouth the next Tuesday by 4 P M. ln i
_ Note. " The poll is to go aud return on this route an
alternately."
13- From Portsmouth by Exeter, Chester, Lon- wi
donderry, Amherft, Peterborough and Marlbo
rough to Keene, once a week. an
Leave Portsmouth every Thursday by 8 A M, evi
arrive at Exeter by one PM, at Chester by 6P M, by
aiid at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M Returning.
Leave Keene every Monday by 8 A M, arrive at N
Chester on Tuesday by 4PM, at Exeter on Wed- C
nefday by 9 A M, and at Portsmouth by 4 P M.
14. From Concord by Plymouth to Haverhill, If
once a week. '
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at Plymouth on Tuesday by 3 PM, and at Haver- " 0<
hill on Wednesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave n '
Haverhill every Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at t
Plymouth ©n Friday by 9A M, and at Concord en ,
Saturday by 4 P M.
15. From Exeter to Hampton Falls, three times »je
a week from April 15 to October ij, and twice a
week from Oitcber 15 to April 15. * "
Leave Hampton falls iu one hour after the arriv- t
al after the arrival of the tnail from Boflon, and
deliver it at Exeter in two hours, remain at Lxeter f '
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hours from the time of leaving it. n^'
MASSACHUSETTS. brh
16. From ewburyport, Haverhill, Kingfloh, p
Exeter, New Market #nd Durham to Dover°olcc r )
a week. Thi
Leave Newburyport every Monday by 10 A M, hoc
arrive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. P'tturn< br "
ing. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 P M, and '
arrive at Newburyport on Friday by 3 PM.
17. Prom S-?lcm to Gleucefler once a week. we °
Lrt ve Cloucefter every Wednesday by 7 A M, ' 1
and 1 trive at Salem by 11 AM. Returning. Leave ' '
Salem every Wednesday by 1 P M, and arrive at on 3
Gloueefler by 6 P M. day
Note, thould this mail be carried in a stage it is ' 3
to be carried a* ott. J iX as the n '
desired to be stated in the proposals. P olc
:8. From Salem to Marbienead three times a we . c
v- cek. Lea l e Sal ; 1 every Monday, Wednesday, ;
aud n,mediately after the arrival of the "A
■mail fro, Bcfton and deliver it at Marblehead in
one houi aud half, k-ivr Marblehead in one w °
hour and a half and return to Salem in two hours.
19. From Bjfton by Ac'dover, Haverhill and ; p o i c
v-Mci-cr to concert] in New fr.lie once a
Week.
he tcavc Concord every Monday fcy 6 AM, ani ve
at Chester by 2 P M, and arriv, at Boston on
fl'/ J uefday by 4P M. Returning. Leave Boston every
c j Friday by 9 A M,arrive at Uhefler on Saturday by
CCI 11 AM, and arrive at Concord on Saturday by 6
in PM "
20. From Boston by Concord, Lancafcer, Leo-
Jfl minfler and Afhburnham to Marlborough, Keene
and Walpole in New Hampshire.
. Leave Boflon every Wednesday and Saturday by
6 A M, and arrive at Lcomir.ller by 7 P M.
l eave Leominfter every Thursday by 6' A M,
arriveatKeene fcy 9 PM, & at Walpol: onf'riday by
ian- 10 A M Returning. Leave Walpole «very Satur
nce day or Sunday by 5 A M, arrive at Keene by 9
AM, and at Leominfter in the evening. Leave
and Leominfter every Monday and Thurfdcy by 6
5 p am and arrive at Boston by 6P m.
lef- *l. From Boston by Quincey, Hingham, Hano-
Saver, Plymouth, Sandwicn, Barnftable, Yarmouth,
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Truro ouce a
illi- week.
:kf- Leave Boston every Thursday by 3 PM, arrive
ck- at Sandwich on Friday by 6r m, and at Truro the
next Sunday by 6a m. Returning. Leave Truro
a every Monday by 8 a m, arrive at Sandwich on
by '1 Uefday by 7p M, and at Boston on Thursday by
Sa- 10 AM.
the 22. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
Hole to Edgartown once a week
on, Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1p m, and
let, arrive at Edgarton on Monday by h a m. Return
11th big. Leave Edgarton »n Monday by a p m, and
arrive.at Sandwich on Tuesday by noon,
ind 23. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
Re- and Taunton to Newport once a week,
y 6 Leave Boston eviry Monday by 6 am, and ar
by rive at Newport by 6p m, on Tuesday. Returning.
Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 a M, and
md arrive at Boston on Thursday by 6p M.
24. From Boston by Charleston, Medford, Wo
;ry burn, Eillerica, Chelmsford and Tyngboroegh to
ar- Amherft once a week.
m- , Leave Boston every Thursday by jo a m, an J
ef- arrive at Amherft the next Saturday noon. Rr
on turning. Leave Amherft every Monday noon, and
arrive at Boston on Wednesday by 3 p m.
:ry 25- From Boston by Randolph, Bridgewater,
at Raynham and Taunton to New Bedford.
Pr from May Ito November I. Leave Boston every
nd Monday, wednesday and Eriday at 10 ru, arrive at
:ry Taunton the next day by 11 a M,and at New Bed
ford by 8 p m. Returning. Leave New Bedford
;<•- everj Sunday, Tuesday and Thufday by 10 p m,
tf. arrive at Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at
fc, Boston by 8p m
From November Ito May 1. Leave Boston eve
ir- ry wednesday and Friday at 9 a m, arrive atTaun- I
by ton by 8P m, and at New Bedford on Thursday & I
[le Saturday by 8 p m. Returning. Leave New I
•t- Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 a m. I
arrive at Taunton by s 8 pm, and at Boston on I
0- Tuesday aad Thursday by 7r y.
p, 26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a I
to week from November ito May 1. Leave New I •
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar- I '
id rive at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Nantuc- I
n- ket every Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and [;
id arrive at New Bedford in the evening.
From May Ito November I. Leave New Bed- I i
h, ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by ic I 1
:o am, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re- 1s
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tue day, Thurf- I
n day and Saturday at 8a m, and arrive at New Bed- I :
y ford in the evening, winds and tide permitting. I'
n 27. FromTaunton by Dighton and Semerfetto I
k warren once a week.
Leave Taunton every wednesday by ja m, and I
1- arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warres by I
p m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r m.
y 28. From Boston byDedham, Providence, Plain- I g
[. field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing- I
r* worth, Guilford and New Haveh to New York I \
6 three times a week. n
From May 1 to November 1. Leave Boston eve- I
h ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 10 a m, I fl
arrive at Providence by 6p M , anrive at Norwich 1
r on wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at I !
' New London by 3p m, arrive at New Haven on (
2 Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan- j y
ford by 9 mi, and at New York on Friday, Hon- 1 jj
day and wednesday by noon. Returning. Leave I
New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday I
by 10 a m, arrive at New Haven on wednefifay, I F
Friday and Monday by 1 p m, at Norwich on \
' Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Pro- e<
vidence by 8 p m, and at Boston o« Friday, Mon- I ai
j day and wednesday by Xp m. 111
November Ito May 1. Leave Boston every I
. Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar- l ar
: rive at Providence the next days by 9a m, at New I b
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tuef- Ijj
. day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday I
. and wednesday by 3 pm, at Stratford by 8 p m, Iki
, and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday H
1 and Friday by 11 am. Returning. Leave New I til
Vork every Saturday, Tuesday and by 11 I
a m, arrive at Stratford the next days by 8 p m, at I Fi
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday I *-<
by 9 a m, at New London on wednesday, Friday I tu
and Monday by 3 p u, at providence, Thursday, I J"'
Saturday and Tuesday by 4 p m, at Boston on Fri- I
day, Monday and wednesday by 3 pm. j J 1
19. From Boston by Dedham, Mendon, pomfret I ioj
and Tolland to Hartford «nce a week. I da
Leave Boston every Thursday by 7 a m , arrive I Le
at Hartford the next Saturday by 6e m. Return- I 5 .
ing. Leave Hartford every Monday by 8 A M, I Fo
and arrive at Boston on wednesday by 5 p m. I 31
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a I
week.
Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6 a m, I Sal
and arrive at Newport by 4p m. Leave Newpor: I ]
every Friday by 8 am, and arrive at New Bcdfori I Lai
by 5 t it. tur
31. From Worc«fter by Rutland, Pcterfham and I a "
Nortbfield to Brattleborough once a week. I '
Leave worc«fter every Tuesday by I pm. and I ? Cr
arrive.at Brattleborough on wednesday by 6 r m. I "J
Returning. Leave Brattleborough every Thurf- I arr ,
day by 6 a m, and arrive at worcester on Friday I tUM
noon. | a k
32. From Er soli field by Belchertown, North- I t
ampton, worthington.pittsfield and New Lebanon I For
to Albany R u i
Leave Brookfield every Tuesday and Friday by I
9a m, arrive at Northampton by 6p m. Leave ITTt
Northampton every wednesday and Satsrday at 5 turr
am, arrive at pittsfield by 1 P M, and at Albany an <i
on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m. Returning 5
Leave Albany every wednesday ahd Saturday at s or
a m, arrive at pittsfield by 5 p m, at Northamp-
ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 p M,-and ar- '
rive at Erookfield on Friday and Tuesday by 4
33. From Springfield by Weftfield and Stock-
bridge to Kinderhook once a week. y^ a
May Ito November 1. Leave Springfield eve- , P
ry Tuesday by 3 p M, arrive at Kinderhaok on
Thursday by 6 P M. Returning. Leave Kinder- L
hock every Friday by 9 am, arrive as Stock- fron
bridge by 3p m. Leave Stockbridge cn Monday houi
fcy 6 n m, and arrive at Springfield by 7 pm, Trip
November J to May I. Leave Springfield every
wednesday at 6 am, and arrive atKinderhook on perl!
Thursday by 5t p "m. Returning. Leave Kinder- Li
hook on Tl Urfday by 4p m, arrive at Stockbridge at 6
on Friday noon Leave Stockbridge every T uef- cav
dsy at 6 a m, and arrive at Spriiigfi' ld by 7 p m. a m
34. Frcm Suffie'd by WeftSpiingfield,Northamp- 5^
Ton, Greenfield, Brattleborough, Weftminlter, Wal ( o U
pole, Charlcllown and \Vindfot to Hanover twice a
week. arriv
Leave Suffield every Tuesday and Friday at am, lur "j
nive at Northampton by IrM, at Walpoleon V/ed- .
ncfriay / 2od Saturday by $ p m, at Windlor on Mon- 57
day and Thursday by 2 r m, and at Hanover by 7 r
m. Returning. Leave Hanov;r every Tuesday and
Ftidav by 6 a m,arrive at Windsor by 1 PM,atWal- 6a:
pole on Y/edi efday and Saturday by 7r M, and at ur " lr
:e a Nf tor. on Thursday and Afcnday by noon, and
at Stifßeid by 7 f wr,
35• From Hanover by Otford and Haverhill, to
non Newbury once a week.
very Leave Hanover every Wedr.cfday by 6 am, arrive
yby as Haverhill bv 4 pm, and at Newbury by 5p m,
( y Returning. Leave Newbury every Thursday by 6 a
m, arrive at Haverhill by 8 a m, and at Hanover by
• „ 6 pm,
-eo
cene
Vt RMONT.
yby 3& From Windfor,by Royaiflon. Randolph, Wil
liamlion and Montpelier 10 Burlington once in two
M, mcks '
ybv Leave Windsor every other Thursday by 6a m,
tur- arr:ve at Burlingtonthe next Saturday by 6 p m.
Returning. Leave Burlington every other Monday
' ) by 6a m, and arrive at Windsor on Wednesday bv 6
P M
f 37. From Windsor to Ru land orcea week.
Leave Rutland every Monday by 7 a m, and arrive
mo- at Windsor on Tuesday bv 6 rm. Returning,
nth, Ltave Windsor every Wednesday by 6a m, and ar
:e a rive at Rutland on Thursday by 6 pm.
38. From Burlington by Vergennea and Middle
rive bury to Rutland once a week.
the Leave Barlington every Thursday by 8 a m. and
uro ariiveat Rutland on Saturday by 6p m. Returning.
on Leave Rutland every Monday by 8a m. and arrive at
ky Burlington on Wednesday noon.
39. From Rutland by Manthefter, Bennington,
mes kanfingburg and Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland everv Monday at 8 a M,and arrive
and at " A,ban y l^e ne *t Wednesday by 6p m. Return
ing. Leave Albany every Thursday by 8 am, and
"arrive at Benning'ou by 7p m. Leave Uennington
an Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 p m
ton
RHODE-ISLAND.
ar " 40. From Providence by Bristol and Warren to
tn S' Newport.
ind Leave Providence eveiy Monday, Wednesday and
r I riday by 7a m, and airive at Newport the fame
1 f >- days bv 5p m. Returning. Leave Newport etery
to Tuesday, Thuffday and Saturday by 8 am, and ar
rive at Providence by 4 p m.
inJ 41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New-
Rc port, South Kingston, WcfterVy and Stonington Poinc
ind l <> New London once a veek.
Leave Providence fvery Tuesday by 8 a w, and
2r, arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at New London on
Thursday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon
don on Thursday by 3 p m, and arrive at Newport on
d- Fr,< * a Y ky 6p m, leave Newport on Monday by 7 a
rd aUCI arr * vc at P'ovidencc by 5t m.
I'. cornier 1 cut. (
42. From Hartfo«d by Windham to Norwich
re oiiceawrek.
n- Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6a m, and ar
& riye at Norwich by 7p m Returning. Leave Nor- 1
, w wich every Monday by 6> M, and arrive at Hartford 1
M. by 7 PM, a
on 43 F[ ° m Hartford by Middletown, Modus Land
ing and Colchester to Nev-London, once a week. r
a Leave Hartlord every Tuesday at ap m, and arrive \
at New London on Wednesday by 7p m. Return
ing. Leave Ne-rc Londoa every Thursday by it a 1
,r " m, and arrive at Hartford on Friday by 7t m. I
c " 44. From Hartford bj New Hartford, Canaan, a
1 Sheffield and Hillfdale to riudlbn onee a week
Leave Hartford eveiy Monday itirn, and arrive a
J- at Hudson on Wednelday by 11 am. Returning,
ro Leave Hudson every Wednelday at xr m, and arrive a
e- at Hanfoid on Friday by li am. j,
f- 45. From Hartford by Litchfield, New Milford, ri
i_ Newtown, Dinbury and Ridgefield to New York
once a week. p
:( J Leave Hartford every Monday by 10 a m, arrive at
Litchfield by 7pw, at Nev Milford 011 Tuesday by at
|( j Ham, and at New York on Thursday by 8 am. ai
r Reiurnrng. Leave New Yuk every Thursday by 4
p m, arrive at New Milforl on Saturday noon, at
Litchfield by 7r m, and a«Hartford on Monday bv at
8 am. V
I 46- From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury, ft,
K Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and Gofhen, to Ca
naan, once a week. p (
.. Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive at Litch- C
j • field by 7p m, and at New Haven on Wednesday by
l' 10 Am. Leave New Havee every Wednesday by j Ti
pm, arrive at Litchfield-on Thursday noon, and at ev
Canaan by 7 p m.
" 47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford, Su
Fredericktown, Dover, Shar n, Sheffield, Great ry
Barrington, Stotkbridge, Pittsfield and Williamfion bi
e to Bennington
y Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and Tl
Friday at 5 AN, the next Wednesday, Friday and
n Monday at 6P M. Returning. Leave Bennington ry
every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by 5 AM, j n ,
. and arrive at Nev York the next Saturday, Tuesday
and Thursday by 6 PM.
If the stages run but once a week on thia route the Ca
y mail isto leave New York every Monday at 5 AM, Xu
arrive at Bennintton on Wednesday by 6P M. Leave da
v Bennington on i hurfday by 5A M, and arrive at P h
- New York on Saturday by 6P M. ,
Y 48. trom Nevt York by Yonkers, Peekfkill, Fish- n c
, kill, Poughkeepfir, Rhinebeck, Redhook, Clermont, j
/ Hudson, Clavera< and Kinderhook tp Albany three at 1
r times a week.
[ Leave New Yotk every Monday Wednesday and r c
t Friday by aP M r arrive at Tarrytown by 8 P M
r Leave Tarrytown tvery Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turdayats AM, irrive at PoughkeepGe by 7 PM. dot
f Leave Pougbkecp>fe Wednesday, Friday and Sunday b u ,
' by 5A M, arrive at Kinderhook by 7P M. Leave ber
Kinderhook evety Thursday, Saturday and Monday, lwc
at 5A M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Return- y
ing. Leave Albant Thursday, Saturday and Mon j ng
day by 3 P M, arnve at Kinderhook by 7 P M.
Leave Kinderhook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
5Am, arrive at Poughkecofie by 7 PM. Leave 7
PoughkeepfieSaturlay, Monday and WedneTday, at av/
5a m, arrive at Tarrytown by 7p m. Leave Tarry- j
town every Snnday. Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a at
m, arrive at New Vork at is a m. g
4g. From Albany by Troy end Lanfingburgh, to
Saltm, once a week.
Leave Albany Tuefday at 8 am, arrive at j l)tr
Lanfingbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Salem by 4 p m. Re
turning. Lea,ve Salem every Monday, by 8a m, and at r
arrive at Albany by 5 p m.
50. From Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Vcr
gennes, Bason-Harbour, yfitlfboro', Peru and Platts
burgh, to Champlaift-town, once in two weeks, onc< ;
Leave Salem every other Wednesday by §a m, and £ (
arriveat Plattfburgh the next Sunday by 5p m. Re- j n f(
turning. Leave Plattfburgh every other Monday at 8 nC Q f
AM, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4p m. at g
51. From Lanfingbuigh by Waterford, Stillwater, b v
Fort Edward, Whitcha'l landing and Fairhaven, to at
Rutland, in Vermout.
Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and rc( j
arrive at Rutland the next Saturday by 6 p m. Re-
turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon, p r j^
and arrive at Lanfingburgh on Thursday by 10 am. l t '
52. From Albany by Scheue6tady, Tripes Hill, ac p 5
Conajoharry, GermanFlatts, Old Fort Schuyler anri
Whitestown to Rome. The tunes dejtrcd tu beJiated in
the propofa/s.
53. From Seheneift?dy by Balltown Springs and ?8
Glenlbiidge to Sardv Hill once a week. Lexii
Leave Scheneftad/ every Tuesday by 6a m. and oncc
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4p m. Leave Sandy Hill on e
Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at Schene&ady by arr * v<
4 PM. turnii
54. From Tripeftiill tojohnfton once a week. a
Leave Tripefhill in one hour after the mail arrives a^J
from Albany on Tuesday, arrive at Johnfton in two 79*
hours, flay at Johnfron two hours, and return to once
Tripefhill in two hours. .
55. From Conajoh;rry by Cherry Valley to Coo- r ' ve
perltowfi twice a week. R^tur
Leave Conajoharry every Wednesday an«s Saturday 6A h
at 6 am, and arriw it Cooperttown by 2 p m.
Leave Cooperftown every Tuesday and Friday by 10 a P 1
a m. and arrive at Cortijoharry by 6 p m.
56 From CoopcrOown by Bntternutsand Oxford at
to Union once in two weeks. Mofta
Leave Union every oiher Monday by 10 am, and anv *
arrive at Cooperftown in'Wednefday by 5p m. Re
turning. Leave Cooper flown every other Thursday
by 6 a m,and arrive atUui. non Saturday by 3 PM. «
57. From Old For. Schuyler by Cincinnatus to p 1 p
Ox lot d Academy once in two weeks. or , *
Leave Old Fort Schuyler every other Thursday by »
6 am, and arrive at Otfcrd on Friday noon. Re- n d
umin g. Leave Oxford every other Friday by 2 ? .\:, e( *
lialiipfitifc once' 4
ii, and ~and arrive at OH Fort Scbuyler on Saturday by
P M.
i!J, to c 3 Fnom Rome by to Rotterdam once
tn two weeks.
arrive Leave Rome every other Thurfdry by loa m, and
■j pM * a r rivs at Rotterdam \sy 6p M. Returning. Leave
A Rotterdam every other Friday by 9a m, and arrive
'cr by at Rome by 6P M.
£■9. From Rome by Oneida, Ononrlaigua, Scipio
2nd Geneva to K.anandaigu3 onee a week.
!>e2ve Rome every Thursday by 10 A M, and ar~
Wil rive at Kanandaigua the next Monday by 6AM
n two Leave Kanandaigua every Monday by 10 AM, and
arrive at Rome the next Thursday by 8 AM.
am, 60. From Kanandaigua by Hartford to Niagara
p m. once in two weeks. [
indav Leave Kanandaigua every other Monday by 10 A
by 6 M, and arrive at Niagara the next Wednesday by 7 P
M. Returning. Leave Niagara every other Friday
by' 6 AM, and arrive at Kanandaigua the next Moit
irrive | day by 6 A M. 1
ning. 01. From Rhinebeck by Kingston, Shawanjrunk,
d ar- Wardibridgf, Gofhen, Hamburg, Newtown, jonn
foufburg 2nd Hope, to Eafton, once a week,
ddle- Leave Eaflfon every Thursday by 3P M, and arrive
■at Rhmcbeck: the next Sunday by 5P M. Returning,
and Leave Rhinebeck every Monday bj 8A M, and arrive
ning. at £afton en Thursday by 10 AM.
iveat From New York by Hackenfack, Paramu«,
New Antrim and Chester to Gofhen once a week.
;ton, . Leave New York every Friday at 7A M, and ar
rive at Gofhen on Saturday by 6 P M. Retarning.
rrive Leave Gofhen every Tuesday at 6A M, and arirve at
[urn-
New York on Wednesday by 6 P M.
and 6,3• From Filhkilt by Newburg and New Windsor
gton Gofhen once a week.
atur- Leave Fiffikdl every Wednesday by 7 AM, and ,
arrive at Golhen by g p M, Leave Gofhen every ,
Tuesday at 7 A M, and arrive at Filhkill by £ P M.
64. From New Y»rk by Jamaica, Huntington, .
nto Smithiown, Brookhaven, Suffolk, Southampton & J •
Budgehampton to Sagharbour once a week.
an( j Leave New lfork every Thursday at >o AM, and I
ame arr ' ve at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 PM. '
.. Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8 A M, and ar- I
rive at New York on Wednesday by 5 P M.
rw- NEW-JERSEY.
oint From Vi cod bridge to Am boy three times a J
week.
and Leave Woodbridge every Monday, Wednesday ft j
very Fr 'day at 8A M, and arrive at Amboy by 9AM. I 0
aon Leave Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbrid»c bv I
.on- 1 ? I
ton From Trenton by Allentown, Mon mouth J ri
7 a cou rt-house, Shrewsbury, Middletown Point, Spots I
wood, New Brunfwick.Somerfet, New Germanton, I 1<
Pittllon and Flemington to Trenton once a week. I
Leave Trentou every Tuesday by 10 A M, and re- j ai
turn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M. I
'ich 67. From Philadelphia by faunton and Atfion to I \
Tuckerton once in two weeks. I
ar- Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3I "
[or. PM, arrive at Tuckerton on Thursday by 6 P M. I
ord Leave Tuckerton every other Tueiday by 6 A-M, and "
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 A M.
nd- 68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swedefba-I ~
rough, Woodftown and Salem to Bridgetown once a j J™
rive week. j "
rn - Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by ]
1 a 3 o'clock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by s P
PM. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at 8A M, and I
an, arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday at 9A M. jb;
69- From Philadelphia by Jenkintown, Plumftead I
■ve and Pipers by Bethlehem to £afton once a week. [Fi
ng. Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday by 10 AM I 6
ive and arrive at Eallon on Thursday by 2P M. Return- d;
ing. Leave E4lton every Monday at 9A M, and ar- In
rd, rive at Philadelphia on Tuefdav by 3P M.
>rk 70. From Plumltead by Pipers and Alexandria to G
Pittfton once a week.
:a! Leave Plumftead every Thursday by l s AM, arrive C °
by at Pittfton by 11 A M. Leave Pittllon by t' P M
m. and arrive at Plumftead by 7 PM. ' 1 an
' 4 71. From Eallon to'Wilkefbarre once a week. I LI
J" J:"T C f afto " CV "V Thursday by 3P M, and arrive 9 .
by at Wilkefbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave 6
Wiikefltarrre every Tuesday noon, and arnve at Ea
•y, flon every Thursday by noon. I on '
la- 7a. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and Harrilbure to arr
h- Cariifle. I sol
t>y Oftober i 5 to April 15. Leave Philadelphia every I bol
I Tuesday and Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading I !
at every Thursday and Saturday at 4* M Leave Read- I wc .
uig every Frtdav at 8 AM, arrive at Cariifle every
d, Sunday by 11 AM. Returning Leave Cariifle eve- I , ''
at ry Sunday by aP M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday I .
>n by 4 P M, leave R. ad ing every Wednesday aud I nv<
Monday by 8 A M, and arrive at Philadelphia on I
id Thurfdry and Tuesday by 4P M
'd April i 5, tu Oftobcr 15. Leave Philadelphia eve- I
"> ry Wednelday and Fuday at 8A M, arrive ai Read-1 9
I. ing on Thurldav and Saturday by >1 AM. Leave I Por
iy Reading every Thursday noon, and arrive at Cariifle j we!
the next Saturday by 11 AM. Returning. Leave L
'e Cariifle every Monday noon, arrive at Reading on j rive
'• Tuesday by 7P M. Leave Reading every W;dnef I tuir
' e day and Monday at 8A M, a„d arrive at Philadel- |M a
lt phiaon Thursday and Tuefdiy byg A M I q
73. Irom Reading by Hamburg. Sunbury and I (> eo
l " Northumberland to Louifburgonce a week. J j
'> Leave Reading every Eriday at 6A M, and arrive w
e at Louifburg on Monday by 10 A M. Returning L '
Leave Louifburg every Tuelday noon, and arrive at . _
Reading on Thursday by 4 PM. j
74. From Harriftmrg by Peierfburg, Millerftown, I
" Thompfontown, Mifflmtown, Lou'ftown, Hunting- I
• don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belle Fount, Milfcfr j
' burg,Aaron(burg, Mifflir.burg, Louifburg, Ndrthum- j 67
- berland, Sunbury and Halifax to Harrifburg once in and <
» two weeks. Chat
Leave Harrifburg every Saturday by 6A M, wait- Span
ing at each poft-office which fhail be eflaSltfhed on Le
Ihe route, two hours, and retuiA again to Harrifburg rive j
' the next Monday by 8A M. I arke 1
75. From Somerfct by to Union once j on Sr
a week. j
Leave Somerlet every Thursday by 5 A.M. an ive I
at Union by 4P. M. Leave Union every r ridav by n f „
9 A. M and arrive atSomerfctbY 7 P. M. f "J
76. From Pitffourg by Cannonfburg, Washington,
Well Liberty and Wheeling, to the moufh of Fifli- I e^ai
Ujff Creek, once a week. j 3'
Leave Pitifoarg every Friday by noon, and arrive j
at Fiihing Creek on Sunday by 9A M. Returning. I No*
Leave Fishing Creek every Wednesday by a P M, I aodci
and arrive at Piifburgihe nex Friday by 10 * \f. ' llt spa
77. From Preston b) Washington to Ciuciuriati I
once a week. J
Leave Preston everv Friday at noon, arriveatWafii- J tX c e tt {
ingfon by 8 PM, and at Cincinnati thenexc Monday tra ft
neon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday I / U)/ c * on
at 6A M, and arrive at Washington on Wednesday Jhcrd
by 5P M. Leave Washington at 9P M, aud arrive . tr ih
at I'refton on Friday by 1 AML incur it
From Petersburg by City Point to Bercnuda Hund- '
red, three times a week.
Leave Petersburg every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 6 AM, and arrive at Bermuda Hundred ln Ibe
bv to AM. Leave Bermuda Hundred bvu AM, to carr .
add arrive at PetCrfbufg by 3 P on the fame days. f or
——— what j
KENTUCKY. J
78 from Washington by Springfield, Bourbon,
Lexington, Frankfort and Harrodfburg to Danville Note
once a week, altcrati
Leave Washington every Saturday by 8 A M, and cified, 1
arrive at Danville the next Monday by 5P M. Re- anltbe
turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 AM, tra£i
and ai rive at Lexington on Wednesday noon, and at
Washington on Thursday by 6 P M.
79. From DanvilJo to Leu fvilje by Beardrtown ote
onee in two week*. their pi
Leave Danville every other Tuesday by noon* ar- tbeir pt,
rive at Looifviile the next Thursday by 3 PM. J ul y a >
R turning. Leave Louisville every other Friday by
6 AM, and arrive at Danville on Saturday by 6 P M. Note
80. From Danville bv Stamford and Cumberland J ay e r
! Gap to Mr jFat's store in TfennefTee once a week. t^c x r /j
Leave Danville every Monday at 2P M. and arrive ,f 0
at Moffal's store the next Thursday by 6 P M. Leave *
Moft'ai'a store every Friday bv 6A M, aud arrive at /. J
Danville on Monday by io A M lc c
TENNESSEE. j
81. From Knoxville by Sourh Weft Point and
Fort Blount and Craig ftort to Nashville once in tw.*
weeks-
Leave Knoxville every other Tuesday by 8 AM, Gener,
and arrive at Nafhvilie the next Monday by 9 A M. Maj
Returning. Leave NafhviiJeevery other Mor day by Jur
by / 3P M, sad anive at Knoxvijle ihe next Saturday by
8 PM.
i once ■ t
MARYLAND AND VIRGINIA. j
it, and
Leave g 2- From Baltimore by F.llieot's Lower Mills, 1
arrive Montgomery Court H'rufe, Charlefburg, Leefburg,
Middlefcurgand War<ertton to Culpeper, c, H. once a
Jcipro we?k
Leave Baltimore every Monday noon, arrive at
Am" Lcc ft> ur fi on Tucfday evening, and at Culpeper Court
' House the next Thursday noon. Returning. Leave
i and Culueoer Court House every Fridaynoon and arrive
at Rsliimore the next Monday by g A M.
12 S ara 83. From Allen's Fre!h by Ludlow's ferry toPort
1 Conway in Virginia once in two weeks,
u Lcavc Allen's Fresh every other Monday by 6A M,
y. 7 v and arijve at Port Conway by 6P M. Returning
naay L e»v c Port Cfinway every other Tuesday by 8A M
and arrive at Allftl's frefh by 7 PM.
84. Frorh Morgantown by Petty Johnto toClarkf-
TunK, bory dnCe in two weeks. . .
J Leave.Morgantown every other Monday by c A
r .: VP M ' an 4 a " !vc at Clarksburg t=»- s PM. Returning
n :' Lcave Clarksburg every other Tucfday by 8 AM, and
5* arrive at Morgan to v.n bv 8P M.
8 5' From'Todds to King and Oueen, c. h. once a
week. ~~
™ u, > Leave Todds every Thursday by a,A M, arrive at,
King and Queen by j> AM Leave King and Queen
at i PM, and ai rive at Todds by 6 P M.
v'e"ft 1 *?' From Halifax by Danville to Cafwell court
house once in two weejes.
,dr„r « cave H*W»x court-house every other Tuesday bv
2 P M. arrive at Cafwfil court-house the next Wed
„j neOlay by 6P M. Returning. Leave Cafwell C. H.
a™ every other Thursday by 6 AM, and arrive at Halifax
' y court-house on Friday by noon.
'ton ? ' 7 ' From Heterfburgh by Suflex court house
'n A ? nd Sou,ham pton court house to South Quay, once
in two weeks.
and Leave Peterftur fT every other Wednesday by 6
M. A M and arriv « >* s O"th Qgay on Thursday by 6
ar- Returning. Ijeave South Quay every other
Monday by 6 A M and arrive at Peterfbure 01,
Tuesday by 3 P M.
lesa NORTH-CAROLINA, &c ■
,y a 88 ; Fro ' ri Newbern to Beaufort and Swanfboro
M. once two weeks, the mail t® go alternately.
. by L-ave Newbern every other Thursday by 6A.
M, remain at each of the offices iVto hours, ami
ruth return to Newbern the next
otf- 89- Frem Wilmington by Georgetown to Char
con, lefton, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6 A M
re- ana arrive at Charleston the next Thursday by 10
AM. Leave Charleston every Thursday by 5 P
to M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday bv
5 PM. ' '
M 3 ? 3 m Fr ? n ),^° rfolk h r Kempfville, Great Bridge
and North Weft R.ver Bridge to Joncfboro', c7cc
in two Aveeks
I>o- ~L ej V e Norfoik ever r o,her Wednesday at 9 A
;e a M and arrive at Jonafbore' on Thursday by 7P M'
Returning. Leave Jon-fboro' every other Monday
by by 10 A M and arrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
11 PM. '
ind 9 1 From North Weft River Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
:ad c k Cave North Weft River Bridge every other
Friday by 6 A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
M, 6 PM. Leave Elizabeth city ev-ry other Satui
rn- day by 6 AM, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
ar- by 6 rM. 6
9*. From Salem, N. C. by Bethanra, Flower.
o Gap Grayfoneourt-houfe and Auftmville toWythe
court-house once in two weeks.
V, C Leave Salem every other Saturday by 6A M,
> and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mon. by 6r M.
Leave Wythe court-house every other Tuesday bv
9 A. M, and arrive at Salem the neat Thursday by
ve 6PM C
93- From Murfreefbom' by South Quay toSuffolk
once a week.
I rom Murfreefboro' every Wednesday by <5 AM,
to "Suffolk by 6 PM. Returning. LweSuf
! fY er y fat fda_y by 6 AM, and arrive at Murfreef
[y boro' by 6P M.
,g 94- From Fayetteville to Pittfburg once in two
ry l- e ™ e Fayetteville every other Wednesday by 6 A
f M, aud arrive at Pittfburg on Thursday at jo A it:
Leave Hicttburgeveiy other Thursday by 2 PM, and an.
1 ivc at Fayetteville on Friday by 6 P M.
m 1
GEORGIA ANO SOU TH-CAROLINA.
[. 95. From by Robinson at the White
e Ponds and Giliets mills to Coofahatchy, once a
|e week. *
e Leave Augulla evary Tuesday by 8A M and ar
n rive at C«ofahatchy on Wednesday by 7P M. Re
turning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
- M and arrive at Augulla on Monday by 5P M
96. From Georgetown te Rocky Landing in
3 Georgia, once in two weeks.
Leave Georgetown every other Monday at 6 A
; M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at J PM. Re
| turning. Leave Rocky Landing every other Tues
day by 6 A M and arrive at Gaorgctown by 6 PM.
>
NEW JERSEY.
67. From Newtmvnby Wackrtftow 1, Morriftiwn
1 and Chatham to Newark, and from Newa k back by '
Chatham, Morriftown, Booneton, Rockaway and
Sparta to Newtown, once a week.
Leave Newtewn every Thursday by j A Mand ar
rive at Newark on Friday by 10 AM. Leave New
ark every Friday by 2 P M, and arrive at Newtown
on Siturday by 6 P M.
Mote I. The Pojl Mofier General may alter the times
of arrival and departure at any t 'ifne dariug the continuance
of the contraSls y he previeujly fipulating an adequate com
pensation for anytxira expenfc that may he occa/toned there
by.
Note 1. Half an hour ft all be allowed for opening
and cltfing the JVLailat all offices 'where no particular time
is fpecifed.
Note 3. Fbr every hour's delay (unavoidable atcid;r.ts
exceptedJ in arriving after the tunes prefenbed in any con
tjaEly the Contractor Jiiall jorjeit one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure of any depending Mai!,
whereby the Mails dejtined for such depending Mail, icje
a trip, an additional forfeiture of Jive do. lors shall be
incurred•
Note 4. Nenvfpapers as ivell ae Letters are it be ftnt
in the Mails ; and if any perf on making proposals deftres
to carry newspapers other than tbofe conveyed in the mail,
for his own emolument, he snuft fate in his proposals for
ivhat sum he ivill carry it wit!) that emolument and for
xcbat sum withont that tmolument.
Note 5. Shonld any person making propofils dejire an
I alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
| cifed, bemufl Qate in his. proposals the alterations desired,
! an i the difference they ivill make io the terms of hit tun
tra£i.
Note 6. Perfonr making proposals are deftred to. fate
their prices by the year. Those ivho contract ivill reecivq
tbeir pay quarterly, in the months of January, April\
July and Oilober.
Note 7 Tie contra&s are to- be in operation on the frft
Jay of O&ober continue for four years, until
the frfl of October lßoi —excepting contracts for the
rouin Na. 8, 9* 10, 3J, 36, so, 51, 57, 60, 74,
76, 77. 80, 81, 83, 84. 87, 90, 91, 9a, 96
which are to continuejor txvo years until ih \ji of October,
1799-
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Poji-Majier General.
General Poll-Office, Philadelphia, )
May 27th, 1797. 5
June 1. 33wtj3i
say tjjl