ef m Ullitets States, a ND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
No MB Ell 1600. J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stqjed Sales r
For DRr GOODS. \
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56)
.. , N I'mvth Fronr-ftreet,
J Q Afternoijn—Footman & Co. No. <5
South Front-street. t lt
C Forenoon —-John Connelly-. Oid Cttv
.. ) Amnion, No. 73 sout 1 !! i r ront-lbieet. .
%uefday-y t , rnoor ,—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street. tn „
is- .1 rj s i Afternoon —Peter derifon, No. 74 vm
ml,efday ] south xh! , d . arcet .
in ? Forenbsr.—Edward Fox. 1 Pl a
Tburfday | Afternoon —John WI
v ~ 7 Forenoon —William Shannon. free
Friday (Afternoon —John Connelly. ring
Saturday Afternoon —Peter Ben Ton. la,it
FoFsavannah,
THE FAST SAILING SAIP fjJJ
Packet, y;l
■ Patrick Gribbin, Majler. | day
V'.*l ; * *NOW lying at Smith's wharf, l IVe,
above Pace-f«reet. Is haudfome- ' and
ly for naffengers, and will fail on afoi
i-avurday, :Bth inft. For freight or pafftvge, ®pp-y ant
to rhe Maimer on bodrd, No. 95, South Front- veil
flreet, or of the fubferibers, at Frank ford. not
N. 15' J. Frazier.
OS. i?. dt:Bth 2
FotTONDON» " -
I THE SWEDISH SNOW are
*.GuftafAclolphz, ti
H«y Capt. Cms. Wm. Ramfz ; «
Pxpeiled to fail iri all the pr«fent month—A
few ton : of Goods are wanted on l're'^t~-r and ,
wi'tj be taken on moderate terms, it fpcedy appli- |
cati<Ai ii made. Apply,t«
Peter Blight. S
Ctck of his new buildings, Dock-ftrect.
OA ig.
For Freight or Charter,
rsr.^, Tie T>a "i/ b Bri s of
Abel Catberina,-
Burthen about 160 tons.
HIS Vf tlcl is now ready to receive on board a
cargo, and may te dispatched to any port in liu- (y rJ
roj'e or the Mediterranean in eight days. Ui
.wpplv to the Captain on board,or to the fwbfcri
bcr.vr , JAMES YARD.
Oft 19. ' dlc L
Freight or Charter,
rat good »rio
S U K E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Matter ;
lying at Clifford's whart,aud in compleat
order to receke a cargo. For terms plcafe to ap
ply the Captlin en board, or
r ' John Siyrtn,
Xq. 81, Arch-street.
WHO FT AS FOR SALE,
aooo wt.of doublerefinedSaltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Vowder
300 barrels of Herrings ,
;o hnfheU of Timothy Seed
150 caicot firft. quality
Anda<jasutity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 29. 21L-
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware r
State, and row landing from on hoard the
Brig A elite, William William', Ma9e;,
Onehundred hhds. 3d h 4th proor,
And for Sale fcv
Jehu H'jttmgJtjorth is Co.
Wilmington, Sept. al. M
•.-iSN. B. The above Brig,
»nd the brig GAYOSO, ire
al'o fT Sale or Charter, and J
now ready to rsceive a cargo
onboard, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
fin elegant House in Arch Street.
TO btlet and entered on immediately a large
ami «leyant hojfe at. the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There arl two drawing room. .
add one dining room the largtft ». 31 feet by
26 —and two are so by folding doorj
as to make b»rt one. Alio, five bed roonjs, be
sides j in the turret, well finifhed for lervants.
There are ftabkrs ar.d a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Er.qu.re ->t No. 29,
in North Seveuth (Irect, or it No, aiß, Arch
Street. .
Aug. »■
Cbocolate ancl Mustard
Manufaflured as ufttal,
Ginger and Ftpper grounrl
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Philadelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
I.ondon Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or g»llon—fuitablc
for exportation or home consumption ,
For Sale by
John Hazuorth.
No. 98 foiith Promt street?
thlTsDbscribek s,
ASSJCNEKS OF JAMES GREESLEAF}
HEKE'BY notice, that they havedifpofed
of thepwperfv alTigned to them for the fecurmg
the payment of the note-, acceptances, and en
dorl'emefts givtn by Edward Fox, lor the ule
of the said James Greenleaf; and theJiolderf of
futn notes, acceptances, and endorsements, ate
hereby notifyed that the fubferiber. will lettlc
with them for the amount of their refpedlive
claims, both pkinci?av and imtsrest, at
any time before the- icth day of Oilober next;
after whiefi slav, the holders not applying, will
be exiludcd, agreeably to the terma of assign-
A»p ! ica<ioin to made at south-east corner
„f Doi-k and Second flreets (the Docb-llrcet
fideV.'heVeen the bodv? of eleven ar.d one o
•lock every dav, Sunday- excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
. . x John Miller, Jun.
John Afbley,
, Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, Aug t»ft 18, 179?-
WINt.
T. at Walr.ut-ftreet wh;rf, 1 EN£-
RIFFE WINE, of excellent q-.alUj in p. and
ba!f pipes forfdckT I£S rA -f
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 25, 1797.
The Philadelphia, Jijion, and fudcrlon
MAIL STAGE. 7
pHF. proprietors her leave to inform the puttie. i 1 L
1 they have eflaUfjbed a Stop; between Philadelphia,* ;
Bat/la, Ham'phi, Speeiveil, and Martha F*r- |
naee, .Wading Sntr flitting mill, anddhe txpm <f tJ. } , er
ertm, in New-Jersey, to go tier a «•««, am/ art (mi- V "
ded with good horses, a emfortMe ca-. ra -c, and a rare- l,1 J;
fuldriver, fat the eoitvsyulrce 'f tse rrii'-, prfrwcrj, ami
goods. Tit Stage iuill fart ra;rv Th.:>f!.sy, I° "*
a'cracl, A. M- /">" Cooper'e Fern, md 1
Mg; that night at Joel HiJhSt, at Ungaomiagi and
cnon Friday, at 6 fctteh, P. M. arrivt at 6/tei £■ '
vans I*, 1 *, inkeepcr, in 'fxcL'rtarl, defiant from thp city , r ..
miles, (Pern the Atlantic 6, and frtmtbe. Eaf Gfajfrg \ "
Plains 7 mites I where are.good accorti'loJalioni far trß- " "
*tilers, and where a*e contmtrlious am! fufc J ajfage l>Mtt ' >
pravi let to convey pa/Jergers !■> Capt. IViliiutn A. ar
ringtons hoife, o» toiler e lflard, aJjunining lh c At-
Isatic, where are good aecommoaaiions, and a convenient c _
place tt lathe ; the sportsman who wtfles to regale btmftlf
Ifith fruding a-idf/hing. may at this place he hi'blygra-
titled, there being at altirojl every fcaftn of the year fowl w '
aadffiin Stage on its return,Jlarts P ■
from the afnrtfaU C, Evans's ia Tucfvtoa, every Turf- ' r
day, at 6 o'clock, A. M. breaifafts at John Bodine s, at <"
1 lVadinr River Bridge, lodge that night at _
; and at 1 o'clock, I'. M. on Wcdneffay, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal diflctoce will be If, txpenfsve, or ftrvijh the tra ■ J .
Vfller with a greater variety of anufement t .as he '-''til
not only have afi leaf ant fail to the atlart c from Tucler-
ton, but have the curhfty of feeing an the'road thilhtr a
number of capital furnaces ar.d forget, and o-.e fitting
mil), in complex ord,r, and at Work ,■ gerllemm, too, who
are oi-rrrs, tr favors, of any of the rforefaid iron woris,
arefolidted to encourage an/ftpp.rt this Jags (ky wh cb
they can be Jo tvell nccommoda'ed) tit continuance of ivhtco
wi'l much depend on their aid. The rates of p.rjengrrs _
and baggage are as fjllmvt : For a paj/enger frort t'.c lII]
tforefaid "l)a :icl Cooper's Ferty to Tuct*ton, including cl<
14/4. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way paffengrrs hy
' per mile. Four IJO lb. of baggage .equal to apaf- fir
I fetnftr. Pofagt of letter., ntnffarcrs, Ufc. will be v ,
agreeably to Liiv. 1
jV. B. Tie mail etajfetfrom tbe Old Ffrrj. m
THOMAS WARDLE W Co. 1)r
. Tucherton,Sept. 18. o&.s. — law#' w
Window Glass,
Of Superior Qualityi *nd cheaper thin any other in
the Citv —
OF VARIOUS SIZES, f
Ftom Bby 6 to 19 by 14, gt
By the (ingle Box or Quantity, may be ha>l at the (q
(lore of the Subl'cribers, corner of Arch and Front-
Jamet C. Samuel W. Ftjhcr.
Ehiladelphia. June g, 1 707- Siwmwltf
Will be Landed,
From oa }>oard the ship Aclivc, Capt-Blair,froin
Hamburgh,
ao bales white Rulfia clean Hemp
4 calks Clover Seed q
?or3ole by
Thomas Herman Leuffer, c
North EUth flreet, No. 34. tc
Tune 16. * • f J
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Alio,
too do. of Hylort,
Imported in the M'oodrtp S:mj, and for sale by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
ftreeu . s
C. Haight.
June tl. tptf
Cedar Shingles. 1
; fu'.'fcriVier has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar e
JL Shingles cf-« superior quality, for sale at 13
iolbrs p«r thousand.
William Hallow ell y
No. 193 North Third-Jlrtet.
July 17. col at '
c Imported, in the Jhip Pigou, t
d And for faleby John Morton, No. I! 6, South
0 Front-street,
Hvfon \
Hyson Skin (.TEAS
Tourig Hvlon (
•j Impertii J
" April 20. g '" f
" N O t I C E.
rs a Lt, persons indebted to the tHate of fo^N
XX Striker, late of Tinnecum Township,
'■ Buck's County, are requcacd to pay off their
T rtfpeflive debts ; and those having any de
-9> mands agatnft said estate, are detired to bring in
A their accounts, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, & } Exetu-
MALLET PMMVALT, 5 tors.
Sept. 28. ; S,AZ5 ,A Z1 V l_
1 MRS. G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the puhlic in jteneral,
that Ji r house, No 191, Market-flrcet, will con
-1 tinue open durinjr the licVnef#.
ler Board and Lodging in a fepavate room, ten
doll aw, in a double room, eight dollars.
Ftor the convcniencr ol" those gentkmtn who
have not thoir ♦amilies in town, Mrs. ©rattan
ale wili rca >ive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a Hay. A _
Just publiftied,
■ And to be fold at the Bcokdores of H. iff P.
Rice, No. jo, Market-ftreett J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
comer of Chefnut and Secc.nd-ftreets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
. IN WHICH IS CONTAIN! U,
1. Dedtnal fraflions, in a plain, concise,
r and ealy rainner.
2. The extraction of the fquareroot.
3. Plain trigonometry, rectangular and
i,„ r lique.
4. An exciOi method to cast up the contents
xt ". of lands. . r
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed wiihout the ule
of fede and corapafTes, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given lome acei unt ct the variation
'"!! of the needle, and the causes or its attrition.
reCt , By SAMUEL MOORE.
6 0 Avouft r.
Lately Publilhed,
11 eoe vo*. 3 vo. (price on» dollar in bf-ardsl fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut Greets,
A Colleftion of Papers on the subject of
a Billious, Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years pall.
Compiled by r/J* l>SThi\, jtin.
NE- Containing letters from Doctors Seaman, Smith,
and Fuel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, P.eyrclds, Mitgh
'j. e!l,o:i fitc. iic.
By John Fenno, 'N a 119 Chcfyiui Street
The Norfolk Mail STAGE. ,
r .1 'Hli starts irwn\ flic
I a? thi cqmcr o< s-. a •.. I di Streps' » n J
IHiitaift v ry &*/</.--
at'V i.i ti.i.' r;- : i i-.;o ar f>o
vcr the a-it -J, ay, »t Sow:!;! »iuy, wr
I'oruianiptQn Ctfisrt Home tiy <3*.y» «<;•! o:>
V-K- rnoinin;/ of tTms fourth day t
a Til'c and comfortable f.icVct thimto 1
> * ~
A ( ackct Je-ives Wsrf.dk lor f try. ,';
every Tuelihy, Thursday at::i the * i
lutts fr»m thw icrry for Philadelphia,every h •
Wcdueiaivy and l-iUajr'j puttup at Snow #
Hill tluFirfrni£i«t, at D>.»ver the «d; night, and ar- .U
rives in Vhiladdpiiia in the evening of the third 0<;
day.
Tlisdifsiice on thw rPuf, be'.wtjn Philadelphia
and Norfo?lr,is So n>ii« '--ft than on icy luge route I Ji
between those places.
Too much cannot be faill in favor of the road,
vriikh'is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return thw T.'hole Ure to an* r i
pafTenger, who, after haying pwfarmeJ tWs route, j
will fay that iv: ever travelled in aft age for the fame ? n
distance, so good a road in Ar.ienica. u 'p
Angoft 11. ilitn. eotf. aJI
Red Port Wine. |j-
Ju!l arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto, m
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds.and quarter calks i f
6c cwt. Cork, for sale by i
Philips, Gramond, & Co.
J*!y«. _ 1
CUSTOM-HOUS.":,
Philadelphia, Sept. aid, 1797- - cr
THE Me: chants whe at this time prefer i:»v- f v
ing their veHeli and Merchandize entered..iml v.
dxire'J at Chester or Marcu3 Hook, —are here- ca
hy notified, That in conn plum re with their >le- fc;
fire, and upon a full con vlrtiou that the tncaiure rt
*••11 be mutually beneficial in them and to live A
United States. The culle&tif of tW* customs has c:
made arrangements to eftaMiQi for fame ti:ce «
brar.clies of the cuStrm-lioL'fc at thufe -placi.-, «
where every accommodation in )iu power w;lt
be given to the merchants. dtw
* -TO BE SOLD"
And immediate pqffrjjlon given,
A Convenient "Well f.nilhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook holde and other out honks, situ
ated in a pleal'ant part of the 'borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware —The lot of gtoutui
has forty feet front on Weft-Hreet, and extendi C
through the square to Paflure-ftreet, on which is t
erefled a {table and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE. s
Wilmington, Aug. 30. '
Ciiy Commissioners Office u
August 29, 1797. 1
IK pursuance of an Ordinance of the Sele& and 1
Common Councils, palled the »ld day of May last.
( Proposals in writing will be received hy the City "
Commiflieners for one month from the lft of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
| year to commence the nrft day of January next, the '
I following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing oa Vine Street,
Also on SalTafraf, -•
Mulberfy, " ■ 1
And High Streets, '
I Chefnut and Walnut Streets, »raw Bridge, with '
: th« Scale and Filh Houfcs, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
1 Streets. ' • . .
The cellar under the City-HaH.
The Tavern at the middU- ferry on Schuylkill,
" I with the 1«M contiguous thereto, so much
thereof as (hall be occupied hy any boildines ere>3-
. ed for the use of the Collefl#r of the Tolls, or be
, j necettitry for the toll-gates;)
Aug. •? 3tawi«.
LOS T,
the PafTjank R.oad, between the Bloe Batt
and the city, a Fowling Piec«, wiWi a htaf« j
bat rel and silver fight j on the plate ol the butt are ■
" the letters " Jamaica, Q_ jp"—and on the liarrcl j
I near the lock 11 London" snd the i o\vw llatnp. ,
Whoever will return the aid pieceto Jmm Etoneri,
at the sign of the Blue Ball on the I'alfyunk Road,
or the office of thisGazotte, shall receive a reward
I of Four Frtnth Crowns,
I sept. it. *
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is.hereby Given,
I npHAT agreeably to an of Congress of the
' JL United States of America, palfed at Phila
• delphia, the 18th day of May, 179 6 i '«y'»g du "
r tics on Carriages, for the conveyance of person»,
which (hall be kept by or for any perfoii, for hib
n I ur her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paffergers, the fevjTal duties and
l- rates following, to wit :
V'or and upon every Coach, IS 5,
upon every Cfaript,iidol«.
upon everyPoft Chariot, 12 dols.
I upon every Poll Chaik, 11 dots
il» I upon every Phnetoa,withor without top,
I 9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 d.)U.
N upon other Carriages liaving panr.rl work
above, w.uh blinds, glafles or curtains,
10 I 9 dols.
kN I . upon fatur wheeled Carriages, having fra
ix ' mcd polls and topi with fleet iprn>g?,6
I • dols.
upon four wheeled Carriage*;with wood
en#>r iron fprinjs or jacks, 3 dol«.
P. irpni Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
(j, upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
p, upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
I upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
>' iren springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
fe, | upon averyfour wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and '.ops, and retting up
on wooden spars, 2 dols.'
ib- | The Collectors of the Revenue for the tirft Sur
vey of the Diftria of Pennsylvania, will attend
nts j daily, until the 3 t'n day of September lor
I the purpose of receiving the duties oti Carriages, at
r Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,l'.lq.
use hi the County of Montgomery, and at the houle
ns . of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of _ Bucks;
i (jl i of -vhich allperfor.spoffcircd otfucliCarrMgesare
o[l 1 desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in vVines, and foreign dif
-1 tilled fiiirituous liqnorsll«,tlictncss will be grant'
... Ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the. 1 ofi
, ness of retailbr of Wines, in ? less quantity, er
ln in left quantities than thirty gallotis—and oue h
r I cence for carrying on the ljufiticfs of retailing Spi
" °, I rituoirt litjtioro in less quantities th-0 do gallons, at
die fame time and at the fame places, by t'leoiTic-
I crs legally authorised to grant such l.cetices.
S ' NICHOLS,
it'll I infpeilor of the Revenue of the firll fut
j vey of the fiiftriil of Perfnfylvatfia.
Office of ftifpciflion at "> ' j,.,,
t Germantow, 12th Seft-
Philadelphia, 03. 13.
ri!P. fr. I fa-i'.K-rs hi-'orm s«u£r and euiVi>- ]
nv.c» i;i town atvj y, tficit ilc! - es -rv' tow _
<-i-i n intlwr cily, ? ; wd cthervarc oisj'y ooft).!!;', a:nJ *
tha.- vrcfV.it appearance th^pr/vailing
*:ilo- ( cr bavJ rvtfvn u> boos, thvr i'rkads m>y
i<n rl} r cwtrir; to ciiy \vukj*erfes r y» By
several !at« arrirals, nunibers have received frc*h
GOODS, ' ' oc
Hcbwt S&itk -S Co. P U r . Gafltrt/ lvt £s? Co.
yo>'»: i}<vvh \y ('->■ iV ; '//W7vj s.v Srrrcbt
Xt-L$ Smith, C:-?rge ' . c
Vi'i!tbsrgsr and Sfi'Mf}* 1 "hv.ucis A'yeffoT!)
/Hex li:fjhr,)J :md CV. T. X. H&rAsttbtrgi Qn(
Jucot> SfK* Ty <PJiA John Smith and Co'
o'i'jrn ;:7 jypa. c js>jes > Thomas Qrr, q
Ktffieic ly '/.roii-zmgtr > iVlHiam Bar!cr vp C:.
rfdain Zar.tzngrr, Too mas Armoi (y San. *lll
JJj '. i'rii j, J- Miller, jun. ar.d Co. }
_ oa. Mj;
P&Ah% r $ Museum
r vel'sable rc*v)Htory of the wcrks cf Ka- |
X. ture, so calcilaleJ to delight tlic m.nd ''
md enlarge the un<J'4ftandirg, it tip -ued daily, as jj 3 '
ufua'. It Hands in an airy and healthy .fitaaijon,
anu free fromtUe epidemic that at prefsnt ufliiils
' tie city ;it may, therefore, be frequented with fit
i the greatefl fafety. - Oz
As an Air.ufcment, the Hctly of Nature is the Wl
! ]»n(l rational at>d pleaiing :as a Science, inoft Dii
! fubUmsand inSruflivc. It elevates the mind Mid lire
expands the h ;art. They Uri
" iritin Nature'i worts ear. ehcritt, ivitb God litoftf I I;i
'■ Hold rortverfe" Bla
Many interjttitip additi.ms have lately been
made to this Mufoirn : and the feaan-re.l tribe,
contairini' a variety cf the mail rare and beautiful
ftibjse!*, *,s now very advantageoiifiy arrang«d
\V Figures, of Men large as life {! n.* ol them
tills from nature) are here dressed i\i tiieir Nc
1,-bit;, and placed :n attitudes char«iWi.s:ic of tiieir
retpe<3i»e nations. Here iauy.be i<--n the North- -|-
American Savage.and the lavage oF Sonth-Arocri
ca—a laboring Chiocfe, and tn.* 'nir.cf W- 11 tie- (
Bvar.—the sooty African, and the Kamtfthadale— -j j
with fotrte Natrrciot the South Sea !fluids, f'lie
' imtnenfe .variety and intereftitij diversity wliich p.
this Wufeura offers to the view, may be fecn but
•innotbe dtfctibsd With full'eff«A. jj,
;rt" Price only I-4th of a dollar. n:
Scyt. z%. taw £r
Borton Glal's Manufadory.
THfi citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufaifure of Window
Glass is new commeneedat the Glass Koufe ..1 flcf-
ton. t [ tl
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent w
quality of the Bolton Glass, as it is so well ltnown
throughout th* United States to be in every rdpeil
greatly fuperiw to any ever importe4 from Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and q
may be confuntly had hy applying to C*ari.e9 F.
Kupier, at the Glass Heufe.
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston. p
Boston, Sept 30,1797. O 4—»aw6w
Mefjirt. Timothy and Mafen, Cbarlcjlm ; Meffrj.
Hodge and fioylan, Halifax, JV. C. Meffrt. H'illeH
and O'Connor, Norfolk ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejrs. Tundt and Brown, Baltimore ; Mr. lUplins, U
Jfem-Tori ; and Mtjfrs. HadfmlSf Goodwin, Hart
ford; Air. Seymour, Savannah ; are rejuefed to insert V
the above once a rveci 6 weeks. Tbe accounts to be for- C
i ivardtd4o tbe Editor. . .... .
' At a Meeting of the Board of y
Property, June 6, 1797, t
Present John Hall, Sea'ry. '[
FrinriS Johnfton, R. G. >oflar.do3ice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G- J !j
: Nicholas llottinger, ") I
terf us > A
Samuel Cunningham.) C
In t.hi» c«fe the proof of service of notice be
ing infuflicient, ft is ordered that notice he Civ p
! en in one of the Philadelphia r.nd York newi'pa- j $
'} pers wetltly,'for at le»S eight weiks so the *
1 i heirs or a%c«e« of Swnuel Cuiuimgham >le- c
} ceased, to atttend the board on tile ffrlt Monday
i ! in November next, to fi<ew eaute why a patent
* fttfljld rtot ifliic sb Nicholas Bettingei fur the
j -land in qrteß ; i>n.
(A true Copy.)
John hall,
/ Secretary of ilie Land Ofitce.
Auf. it. * i»wilw. J
At the Federal Blast Furnace, a
e In Carver—for Slitting, Matting, ant Rolling t;
Mill*.' J
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
'< THEI/i fufernrity coofijh in being free from .
1 holes and toneyrcvrpted plates, tubal) Are com- ]
mo»h found in rollers cast in sand, or clny
" moulds. Theft patent rollers are cast in inn
moulds, prcf.oojh heated, and wiH be found to
be more derfc, fthti and durable than aty rtillers
hrrnofvrtvfed. Ano'.hif important atttH*niage
tbty, bjive oi*'t' Qtbers, is* th.it the necks require
, no turning, but are immedlaitcly Jit for life, and '
from their accuracy, run with less friction, c.ud
require left Water to make them perform tbeir
k r.vork. 1 hey may be had by application tootle
s, Patentee in Plymouth, of Gin. Nathaniel Good- t
tvin, or of .Messrs. Thatcher ct-id Hctyhonrd !
s- So/ton, Aug. 3i. Sept. ls. "§6t. <
This Day is Published,
d- 3Y \lt(T. Dobfon, Carev, Campbell, Ric», and the I
othei Bookfellcrj,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Eleant y printed on Wove paper, and Mot
" Med,
,s - By John Thornpion,
or A COMPARATIYt VIEW OF
U. Tbe Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
P" that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the promir.eat features of eaeh Coivftitution, and
ir j clafling together their most important provisions,
" under the several heads of administration ; with ,
or Notes and Qbfervations. .
" By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carotin<%,
s; U.D. and member of the Congress of the
lf g Onited States.
Dedicated to th« People of the United States.
N. B. A fey* Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3*4thsof a dollar.
'f* February 6 mwf
lf> Public Notice is hereby given,
j C - r THAT tbe CcmmilTioners for the DiOriit of i
Southwark have removed their hall to the hotif
• t formerly occupied by Samuel Goa* at m
Ac /corner of Fifth ttreet. \ *•
Ait toying Duties on' Stamped Vellum
■ Parchment and Paper.
A FTSW copi?s of the ahove ail may beltad at
h ' Ollice us the Cia2'3t!c of *i"-e United State-., No
» i.;, C kef:;u: IVr. ,:. I^*9-
J ! tfjl PuL!ifh:d> and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN PA VIES,
i .V hs i iMi No. 63. Hiii-V." ■ ,
; The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANXVAL REGISTER for ihUNITZDSI fr.S
j TOR THE VIAR 1 7C.8 :
Containing complete and correA lili* of the E,; u
tiYc, I csiflative and TuJic'.ury
of OTSvBXNMEK.',
And a variity of ufeful tables, necessary to bi
bfWti in every State of the Union.
U'jhtri vitb tret* harttfurr.e £:/-rm}i::ri.
One of trfc'ic& is depictive cf a rr. ynchoif feet:«
tb?t occurred dtirinp- the American war.
. Imported in the latefl: arrivals from.
'■ AmflriUim and Hamburg, and ftr fate t-y
B. b 5 J. Bohlen,
A large rjforimcnt of jinc French Cambrics,
PlariiUs Knflia atidDutch fmicl'ith
I li»ii iannias Writing. v»cft, and prim- ,
5 Ilouane-: inp paper
j Bro-.vri Holland ' I)u ch calf skins
s Check? and flripcs Prune lriaddtfir
h Ticklenbutfgs Shelrd- Barley
c White (heetipgs ) T olio\V glals ware
■X Diaper Slat-;*
d Brown rolls Coftee tnW®
Uinhrtili.s Krais kettles
f Mair rib?x»r.s Scythes and ftrav knives
Black *ud whrtehvcfs Xovs alfc»rted in boxes
n Best Holland Gin in pipes
c » London particular Madeira Wine
Jnfy g4 . m&thtf
ai Thomas Herman Lev^eer,
- r North Fifih (Ircet, corner of North alley, No. 34*
ll " HAS FOR. SALE,
;• j t?ourr)eji:x Wine mcafesar.4 ;
l " | r i bettes, fix years old
c " I White Orsvcs Wm&ia CifltS
Tirklrnburg* >. v.
ll f Russia Hail Cloths
Ravens Duck
u r
Bag Linen
Heffiarts
Diaper and Table Clotfi
„ Empty bags
C«iranioa German Cloth
, fin affcrtmentof black coloured Ribbons
: Fine German JLaees
, Ahout twelve tons Russia clem Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small botes, for family ufs
Window Giafs Aug, 49. —naw
■-& From Marseilles.
P e - THE CARGO
" Of the Swedish barque Guftavus Adolphus, from
Marseilles, confiding of the following articles,
is difchsrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
t0 sale by the fuhftribers
- w BRANDY, well flavored, of », 3 & 4th proof
Trj Claret, in hogsheads
l cH Ditto, in cases
; a '. Frontigniac Wine, in cases ©f 30 battles
;„l t Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in balkcts of 4
, r l. and 12 bottles
fert papers
tor- Olives
Almonds
~c Dry Verdigreafe
OI Writing P«per
Umbrellas (Silk) of jB, 30 and 31 itfclies
Taffeties
li ce Long amd short white Kid Gloves for Women
i>»lk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Oflrith Feathtri
' !f *~ KfUbons
IT I'erfumery
pa- ! Seated Hair-Powder tnd Potiiitwn
t.is f t £nn a m forts
lie " Cream Tartar.
Jay BENJAMIN MORGAN A
ent ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 47. eotf
MR. L AILb OM,
WITH an intention to render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who duriaghis atfence Mr.
Jaytnond has thoUght proper to thinks it
woald be wrong in him not to inlorin those that
!, are tngiged, that it is withou his approbation, and
that be will not be in any way answerable for Mr. (
l.tyraond's engagemi'nts. * »
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. Is, I T)Tr
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
\ 3 Ditto dint Giarat in cases
j Cn Just teceived,and for Sale by
[°: Rufldk Leech.
J »awtf
nrrp . - ..ii» 1 ' "
Jrc 1 Ills DAY "WAS PUIiLI^BED,
an d And for sale by THOMAS BQUSON, at the
r.vd Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
bar EVENINGS at HOME ;
t/e OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Qoct- C'iMlfting ofa variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces so*
the inflruition and amufementaf YQUNG PER
t. SONS —SixVolumeshaniffomely printedand bound
up in two volumes,"price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces a*"e
the such, that the book needs only to be known to bn
urirertally esteemed dne of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
Hot• ptrfons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how tu Ihoot,
To pour the frefh inllruflion o'er tie mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing brcalt."
. , Thomson.
X, Au g uft34.
, atrd THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
Sons, By THOMAS at (he iitone Uouf»,
with 1 jjo. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several TcungLudia,pv. iinprovicg and «•
, tef ell mg fubjefls.
'■ ° Tranfla'ed from ttie Dutch of Madame ie Cam/urn
with alterations and improvements,
Printed enJim paper, andmvl/y hound,
" Priee one itvl.ar.
c AMIDST thetidc of modem Ranances, pamtfag
talcs ef extraordinary difrrefs, or of drfperata or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul,'' ar4
which ii would be for the honor of yowcg ladles io
St of be :t;mi ant of, this little l>ook comes forward to fo
10uf- Ucit notice, where in a variety of incidents, not cx
at in cecuing the bounds of real life, the proper, bceaufc
2. tfemt Mid raHiral and ixjertmit of the W/
7 fLaracicr is<-xhi ! itcd in an irt reding point of view,
and pr<fents examples cf rtal and attainable cx«l •
ItfPX *.
ui at The p-ibli&er wasfcmuch pieafcdwith the
i No W.that he wtsperlUßded he fliould do a plesbtfi
19 service to *.&« cbMUtity by feu-ilnj it in o cirin-
rv&zvme xiiXlyt <sft3ette*
P. tf !LADE LPH IA ,
W'bivriDAY r\TNINC, Ocroßrß SJ .
COMMUNICATIONS.
■vV'.rd-r all the Quixotic vagaries of tlie
tren in Fv;inc-, none br.ve appeared
rr.ore ,";mfy yr.J contemptible, tf»s3 the ex
f'-'Sv? po,ViT they h=vc claimed for them.
k-!v-. * 0/ rtct'ic iiig independent nations to a
(tii'.f of freedom.
The error upon which, their pra&ice in
t 'lis pfrticular has been grounded, is the ori
gin or half the Offtakes' aT)d abfurdftits of
r.Mtiktnd—ilie confufion of causes with con
sequences.
TMfrjtKe Frencli Reformadoes have itr.a
gtsed, (if they merit the credit of afling u
pon any determinate system at all J that' to
make a people tree was to make them en
lightened and happy—Whereas a mass,
whom general ism*ranee has once pervaded
cannot fail to be deteriorated in condition by
any liberation fiom reftraint,however partial.
To be fitted for the enjoyment of liberty a
community muftpn-vi~.uj!y bj enlightened
ar.,'i tlie experience of France has Chewn that
an attempt on difTerent grounds, is to arm
tlie poo' against the rich, and the ruffian a
galnft the man of honor. In Turkey, or
other despotic governments, is it not uni
formly fee-n, that when any portion of the
fubjefb, by infurredion or rebellion, (hakes
off rdtrains, the consequences are finiformly
murderous. Bad difpc fit ions, evil spirits,
and minds endued with those qualities
ve'.iich constitute the noxious asd turbulent
demagogue, require the iron hantl of power
to restrain them from bursting forth into
dangerous afts. All these evil propensities
lieve, their foundation in ignorance. Where
cv!!r ignori'rtte rules, there despotic sway
aloa: cnr. constitute a paramount authority.
The fcreft antidote against defpotifin is
information. And it is lamentable that
while cur sister states of New-England,
v/hich are 011 all hsnds allowed to be thepu
re'e models of republicanism extant, hold up
to us " the glass of fafhion and the mould
of form," Pennsylvania fliould supinely ne
gled a point of such prominent and leading
importance. To this fatal neglect, it is
owing, that jneobimTm
( ike an evening rrif),
C.T*hcrs > groTjnd at the Patriot's K-el."
That improper men intrude themselves in
to important offices, and that a fpiric of li
centiousness, disorder, turbulence and mif
ruje, hss been enabled to afTume a mcnacincr
•afpedt.
. MORRIS-TOWN, (N.J.) 0&. 18.
Communication.
L.i a free ftite the bsft inheritance of eve
ry man fliould be the laws and conflitution,
not his cftatc or chattels, and the best pro
perty of the state is the indnftry, talents
and attachment of its inhibitants, not thd
lands they poflefs. The feudal idea of re
gulating eleflions by the pofieflion of pro
perty, or of portions of territory, to which
the people are deemed merely appendages,
is not ytt discarded. LegiGators, and con
stitution mongers, gravely utter the absur
dity that forefts, fields and blad*3 of grass
may be represented by men. The pofTeflion
of property is of itfelf (according to Joel
Barlow J a fufficient advantage, and it is
impolitic, as well as unjnft, to add to' the
advantage, at the expense of labour, in
dustry, and talents, the most valuable re
sources of every community. Nothing less
than a civil offtnee or crime should deprive
a citizen of the right of voting in the ap
pointment of legislators and magistrates,
wno are to determine on happiness and life.
The lands and riches of a country may be
monopolized by a few, while fuffrages and
property have no more natural connexion
than nobility l or fuffrages and military rank.
The power of appointing governors does
not imply ah equality in personal con fide ra
tion or in property : it is founded in the
veafonablenefs of having a choice where
appovitments may restrain our public afti
oirs, and dispose of the fruits of qur indus
try, and our lives. All on such occasions
should be considered equal, and entitled
ftri&ly to equal consideration ; for all com
mit all to the hands of government. The
property and talents of individuals may be
unequal, and private advantages or disadvan
tages arise from them : but in the inter
course of' every community with its govern
ment, every citizen is equally an unit, and
every violation of this equality, whatever
the state is called, is an approach to des
potism.
REMARKS.
There is in the foregoing observations a good
dealpf modern fophiflry. Attachment to the gov
ernment of a country arises from the benefits deri
ved from' the laws which secure life, liberty and
property under that government. These three are
inseparable. To tell those who have no estate or
chattels, that the laws and conflitution ire an inhe
ritance, is too unfubflantial an idea for them to rea
lize ; and to talk of talents and induflry aithe best
prope ty of the (late, apart from the landser other
obje<2s on which those talents and that induflry
are to be exercised, is refining beyond common or
tfeful comprehension. The diflindlions attempted
to be drawn, between property, labor, induflry
and talent*, is invidious. The three la(>, in a free
country, produce the firft ; and this form* the ba
sis of attachment, made valuable ly just and equal
lav s. li In the intercourfi of every community
with its government every citizen is equally a unit,"
fays the communication. This cannot be true—lf
A pofleffing nothing, neither hdufc nor laud, nor
wife nor child, nor talents nor indu.lry. nor virtue
nor charafl?r, it a unit, can it be said that he en
joys no greater advantage than S, who poiTefling
all that A wants, is nevertheJefs no more than a
unit. The true political equality here is, that His
a unir, and A is a cypher, and ought to remain
so, till circumllanres alter. An equaliiy of this
fort is the word species of despotism ; for it not
only gt>;, s-ifhecontroulof£'s property,buton a ge
neral scale damp* and quenches every spring of hu
mail exertion
itmsy be well to advert to a few of the o'-j-c
---tions which have been (iarted agajnt the system ( ,f
universal fyfl'rfge. The FjrW is, thn it would i;i
most inflanccs defeat the principal objeib in view,
that is, an equal reprtfentation. The more sxten-
A
r» c t,».0 he»d oF t!ifr cHai:; of
lucccisin exerei»ing the means and uiinlly
employed One of the greatell evil* t!ie
exten-iv.- i i-rhf; nl fufirage ■ ■ e-ctTcife.l i i this cqlti'
is til'* .facility ot incre'ifinj* the votTfc in favor
of i«wo-Wiy nnd unprincipled cwiiilafs., hy'tliai'j
arts of ff('u£\ion which arc era Allied on t.!-c un va
- 11'>'Omple anduninformed. UniVerfat fuTi'"iwc
womd increase this description cjf voters in a ratio
greatly or;rproportio<;ed to fh.' mimber of a con
trary complexion. The cen r eqacnces are undenia
- ; the rerreleiltalive- of w> i>ld fcldom
if ever he rhr rcprefenratives of thr fnlingi r.r ihe
inteil'smce rf the p-ople. fl-ivirli! knowlti'gr,
flight to precede ur;iv;rfal fuSVi^s.
Another o'. jeflion ar.fes !r;n> t- e »*UcntiH po ■
1 cy of c'N.Tr.ir the worthlrf.i, the prnflijrute an J a*
hafldoned. without property /aad w'tl out informa
tion, with those who ar» the lY.t of C.ciety. The
- principled hnuflv>lrfer», the irdufliinus farmers and
artisans, who pofTcf# property "ret talents, &-d
whofc providence imVt r.nomy are til? chief depen
dence of the t>oor and improvident. 1 his Would
unnerve In far as it went, the hand of e:.ter
prize. and .'edroy one gr' t of a laudable
emulation, by giving equd advantages to iu-luftry
an:l idleness.
A third ohjcairtn, and the most importm'
is that i' would vrv soon transfer the powers
of ftovcrnmcnt f. '.ri 'hrf. who I ave t-vtry thing
i to Icfr, to those who have nothing to lefe, but e
very thinsj to gain.' For as it is contrary to Vca
fon and experience, that the wealthy ftioulJ ever be
equal in numbers to those who are poor, placing
the power < to determine on happinci's and life" in
the hands cf amijsn'tyof the lat'er, will eventu
ate in laws a together in their own favor, and in
volving a facri'ice oT the happinefa of those who
poflefs property t,aws in such cases would afiur
edly be made io rffeil an equality on principles
contravening the fettled course of n.-.ture. Where
property, and its enjoyments are secured, the moll
powerful incitements to induflry exist, but where
it it contronled hr the w ill of those who have none,
it loies its value—The main spring of society is un
braced, and its diiTolution soon fellows. Lej/lfla
tors determine not only on " happiness and life,"
but also on property.
It furcly would be incongruous to pl?ce the pro
pel ty of A, to the d fpefal of B and C who have
Done. The business must be disposed of, so that
neither rich nor poor may hevejuft czufc of com
plaint. Th? qualifications in this country are so
moderate, that woe to the generation whi h fees
the present barriers thrown down.
ALBANY, Oftobcr 13.
From a Correspondent.
Whiteftown, Oft. 5, 1797.
On Monday the 2d inft. was celebrated
at Fort Schuyler, formerly Fort Stanwix,
f :n modern Rome) a marriage between a
7'ounger branch of the family of St. Law
rence, and an Elder branch of that of
Hudson. This match* so long contem-,
plated by the friends of this state, was
brought to a happy ifTue, in consequence
of the liberal settlement made by the legi\
Mature of this state, as a marriage dower on
the young Lady. The marriage ceremony
was celebrated, under a discharge of can
non, by Mr. Wefton, in behalf of her
guardians, aflifted by some of her other
friends. At the commencement of the ce
remonies, thirteen cannon were fired in honor
of her Guardians, and at the conclusion,
Jixteen as a federal salute—Aster which the
company partook of an elegant dinner, at
the house of Mr. Wefton, by whose able
and judicious conduft the match has been
concluded, where decent hilarity evinced
the joy of the guests on this happy event.
May this match give rife to a numerous
progeny, that may, in some future period,
contribute amply to the support of the pa
rent flock, and enrich the various branches
of this house, as well as the state which has
so judiciously patronized them.
From the IVfflern Centinel, O&oler 3.
We hear from Fort Stanwix that the
canal and locks are completed, and that
yesterday was the day fixed on for the boats
to pass. The formalities of the day we
have not obtained.
CHARLESTON, Oftober 9.
Extra'ft of a letter from captain Edward
Johnson, of the /loop fames, belonging
to Messrs. Blake and Magwood of this
city, dated Naflau, September 20.
" I am sorry to inform yon of my long
paflage from Charleston, and also of my mif
fortunes, On the 22d of August, I was
in lat. 26, long. 77, which was within fix
hours fail of this place, when I was boarded
by the Grouper, which is a Spanish priva
teer, by which I was very hardly treated,
and my vefTel sustained very great damage ;
they kept me on board the privateer 48
hours, during which they robbed my vessel
of every thing worth taking. I received a
llab under my right breast, but, thank God,
it is not dangerous. They carried me back
as far as lat. 29, long. 79, and then put 7
Spaniards on board of her, to carry her to
St. Jago in Cuba. Being unwell, they put
me on board of my own vefTel, where I
found means to get pofleflion of her, and
have brought her in here. lam sorry for
your loss, but it could not be helped, as the
privateer Grouper is the occasion of all the
damage the cargo has received. A great
many American vefTels are brought in here;
they take out whatever is contraband, or
contrary to treaty, and let the veflels go."
A letter dated Mole St. Nicholas, Septtm
ber 23d, 1797, received there by the
sloop General Green, now off Fort John
fton, mentions that
The brig Jerufhia, capt. Ebenezer Giles,
which failed early in June lail, from Bristol
in England, for this port, was captured on
the 31ft of August, by the French frigate
Medusa, commodore Barney, who took her
in tow until the 17th of September; in the
night, off the north fide of the Caucasus, the
tow rope broke, and the Medusa left the
Jerufha, carrying away all her psople and
leaving 8 Frenchmen on board. On th«
ißtli September the Jerufha was retaken
by the English frigate Aquilon, captain
Crawford, who sent her into the Mole. On
the 19th September, captain Giles made out
his protest, and waited on the judge of the
admiralty, who told him, that he (hould pay
to the captors a salvage of one eighth of the
vessel and cargo.
Captain Giles writes, that he expefis a
part of the cargo will be fold to pay the
ialvage, in compliance with an order of
court, which will b« immediately granted, I
and he will proceed for this port as fooD as
his business is arranged. I 1
• Her? 15 a new fpccjmen of the principles
of a French American ; the commodore of
Baltimoie has no sooner cleared himfe'if of
oils UiTrtts. which prcte&ed him 'from the
enemies, whom he so anx : onfly lulled to pj-f
vengeance from, than he has commenced his
filiations on American property. We
hope and trust, that such unparalleled vil
lainy and ingratitude will meet with the pu
nifhmeiit doc so it, and that lie may shortly
again enjoy the comforts ofprifon fliip.
An extraci of a letter, from a citizen of
this state, now in Holland, to a chars&cr of
the firft refpeftahilitv in this city, on the
fubjeft of politics, fays,
'* 1 hat the negociations now pending
between Britain and France, may possibly
terminate in peace ; that ef the diredtory of
Frac'ce, but one member (Barthelemi) is
friendly to the United States ; of the coun
cil ot five hundred, a majority may be reck
oned well disposed to us than otherwise; that
Ihoukl a peace take place between Britain
and Fiance, it is impoftible to form a judg
ment, of what measures or conduit the di
re£lory wilj .idopt with refpefl to the United
States, an;i it is therefore of the utmost im
portance that we (hould be fully prepared
for the worst, and that our sea-ports and har
bors particularly, ought to bt immediately
well fortified. In.speaking of the differences
between the French directors and the coun
cil of five hundred, the writer fays, " that
it is uncertain whether the armies will fide
with either of the parties, or that BUONA
PARTE will not set up for himfelf," with
the title of the KING OF THE RO
MANS."
Communication.
Barney and Defchamps, ex-citizens of
the United States, are now in their glory ;
they have each commenced their career with
robbing and plundering our citizens ; the
latter has already gone so far as to attempt
to murder one, and the former, there can be
no doubt, will likewise take advantage of
the firft oppprtum'ty to do the fame. It is
said there has been an exceflive hard gale of
wind to the southward on the 26th of Sep
tember ; it is molt devoutly to be wifljed,
that the vessels of these unnatural, unprinci
pled and unphralelled villains have been
wrecked, and that they with all the horrors
of the (form, are embosomed in the deep, as
food for fillicp, Were they {imply our ene
mies, there would be something wickedly
cruel in such a with, but they are the ene
mies of nature.
Citizen Commodore, had you at any time
after becoming Frenchman quit pickaroone
ry, made good your boailings, fought out
the enemies of your newly adopted country
and fought them, your quondam country
men, the Americans, and your eternal ene
mies, the Englijh, would have done justice to
your courage and applauded your revenge ;
but a conduft like this corresponded neither
with yonr principles nor views ; you fled
commodote from the enemies you vowed
vengeance upon, to American protection, and
left it only to unmalk your viperous heart,
and commence yonr trade of robbery and
plunder, and to rank yourfelf the equal of 1
pirates.
Married, on Thursday the |tt inft. by
the rev. Mr. Hollingfliead, Mr. William
Ruffel Gray, to Miss Ruth Ann Man, both
of this city.
Died, on Thursday last, at his house in
this city, after a short indisposition, in the
55th year of his age, Isaac Huger, Esq.
late brigadier general in the army of the
United States.
NASSAU, (N. P ) Sept. 26.
On Saturday evening, the appeanncc of the flcy
indicated the approach of a heavy gale. At it
o'clock, M. there suddenly came on a severe
squall from the southward, and for half an hour
the wind blew with very great violence. The
weather has fir.ee been moderate.
The trial of the American East Indiaraan Asia,
re-captured by the Ratigcr trivater, came on thi«
day in the court of vice admiralty. The counsel
for the re-captor» conunded for the whole, both
vessel and cargo, being condemned, as lawful
prize ; and in support of this claim, urged the uni
form pra&icethat has hitherto obtained, where no
flipulations were made by particular conventions or
treaties, for a fpecific falvagc in cases of recapture.
The fcntence o! the court, it i« supposed, will be
given in the coutfe of next week. 1
LONDON, August 19.
efterday letters ot intelligence were re- 1
ceived at \he office of the secretary to the I
admiralty, Whitehall, from admiral Dun- <
can's fleet. The Brkilh and Dutch fleets it 1
seems still hold their usual situations. 1
Yesterday we received Dutch and Bruf
fell papers down to the date of the 12th j
inft. The former are extremely ban-en of i
news, every thing having been anticipated
by preceding accounts. The intelligence 1
brought by the latter is extremely impor- I
tant, inaftuuch as it may be faii to exhibit '1
the fine qua non oi the imperial cabinet, 1
whieli is said to insist on a fulfilment of the t
fbidt letter of the preliminary articles. 1
The Udme account also (Irongly inti- t
mates that the negociatioi) is drawing to a t
close. Perhaps it is not the intention of J
Buonaparte to return tp Udine, but at the
head of his army. J
The Auftrians and French, both on the t
fide of the Rhine and Italy, are making 1
movements which indicate a renewal of hoi"- 1
tilities. t
Accounts are moreovet said to have been I
received yesterday at the imperial ambaffa- c
dor's, that the emperor will certainly break
off the negociations with Buonaparte, un- f
less the idea of dividing Italy into republics 1
is totally given up; but as the cefiiou on <i
the tof the French is not probable, it i 3
likely that (mother week may bring an ac- 1
count of ajn appeal to the sword, as this on- a
ly depended upon an ultimatum from Vien- 1
11a to the French commander in chief, and v
in the manner in which it may be received. c
Almost the whole of the imperial forces c
from Manheim to Metitz have left their can- 1
tonments, and are gone to occupy the new
can-.ps traced out for them. In cafe of a c
■s 1 renewal of hoftilltiea, the archduke Charles
>f j will command the army on the RJiine, while
>f ; the archduke Joseph, affiftedby gen. Mack,
,e 1 will conduft the operations in Italy.
! _ From Nuremberg it is remarkable, that it
is is impossible to divine "the objecls of the
e Au.luaw movements, and that theycontinue
1- to buy up all the hay, &c. that they can
i- meet with.
y The French troops under gen. Grenier
. have again taken pofllfiion of the Bridge
head at Niewed. This is undcrftood as a
if certain indication of approaching hostilities.
if The letters from the Hague, received yef
le terdny, reach down to the 14th of August,
j and contain communications of the fit'ft im
g . portance. The new conflitution, so strong
ly • ly recommended by Noel, was 011 the Bth
_>f inft. rejefted by a considerable majority,
is One of the mofl efficacious means em
i- ployed by the French for theipurpofe of
1- working tip a revolution in Turkey, Is the
it eilabliftunent of a French gazette at Con
in ftantinople. Phis paper contains not only
V an account of all public tranfadlions, which
j- aie rcprefented in a manner the most favour
•d jble to their projc& of universal
:i- zation, but is also constantly engaged in
:d diffemiriating those deftniftive principles of
r- anarchy which have laid waste the fineft
fy countries of Europe.
;s It is rumoured at Paris that a revolution
1- has taken place in the Ecclesiastical states,
it and that the pope has abdicated his fove
le reignty on a pension.
L ' Th r« of the bank of Vienna
h have, it is said, been arrested, and are to be
)- brought to trial on a charge of having low
ered the public credit by stock jobbing.
T"he above papers contain nothing upon
the fubjedl of the negociation at Liile wor
'f th y of remark. They were brought to Do
; ver .by a Danish packet with passengers, but
h no king's melftnger.
c The Bruffuls papers contain intelligence
t from \\ etzlaer of inft.ofthe liberation
e of La Fayette, and the other (late prisoners
f at Olmutz ; from Vienna, of the murder of l
s the French consul and his wife at ifi
f Dalmatia.
By this day's Mail.
1 , M , *
s NEW-YORK, Odlober 2?.
s 0
" By Captain A dam fin, of the Ship Chefa
_ pcahe, arrived ycjlerday, in 56 days
from Brijlol, ixie huve been Javored
: -with London Prints to the 26th of Au
g"f> (seven days later than our former
\ advices) ; and from which <we have
feleSted the articles detailed as under.
1 LONDON, August 21—22.
. Letters from Ireland, by the mail of yes
terday, state two matters not much in uni
[ son, though proceeding from the fame cause,
| an increase of difaffeftion and of quiet.
[ Neither the bayonet nor the Flames have
fufficiently discriminated. Not only the pa
[ rifli of R-. thfryland, refpe&able in extent,
4 in population, in indnftry, but almost the
entire country from Newry to Dundalk has
been dcfolated, under the suspicion of a ge
neral propensity to defenderifm ; nor has
the progress of alarm been marked by less
fatality in other quarters.
The consequence muftbe obvious, the ma
ny who will not, like the Spaniel, lick the
hand by which they are chastised, brood o
ver their ills« and thirst for the moment in
which they think they may surmount them.
The laftaccounts from Lord St. Vincents
and Bridport, state the continuance of their
fleets in their former ftatiors. ,
On Saturday arrived the firft of the Ham
burgh mails due, which brought intelli
gence of rather an hostile nature, as far as
regarded the negociations between the em
peror artd the French republic. The let
ters from Vienna stated in very positive
terms, that his Imperial majefly had deter
mined to renew hostilities, rather than cede
the fortrefs of Mantua to the Cisalpine re- ;
public, which the French have founded in
Ita ly- ,
Yesterday another Hamburgh mail, and 1
also the chaplain of Sir Morton Eden, who 1
came with dispatches from Vienna. The <
advices are much more pacific than those 1
brought by the preceding mail ; and ivc 1
find, that after numerous difficulties railed '
by the French negociator in Italy, in re- {
gard to thecefiion of Mantua to the Empe- •
ror, the diredhiry at length inftrufted him ,
to give up the point: and accordingly, a
Mantua is to be restored to his imperial ma- 1
jefty;. but all the French ordnance and
stores are to be previously taken away. t
The principal point of difference being ;
now removed, we may expefl to hear the de- t
finitive treaty of peace has been signed be- b
'tween the emperor and the French republic; a
unless, indeed, the former chufes to wait a
the issue of the negociation at Lisle ; for t
which place, Mc. Brooks, the messenger, ftt n
off late on Saturday night, with the answer ],
of our court to the last dispatches. Lord t
Levifon Gower remains in town. f.
We learn by private letters from Ham- 0
burgh, of the 11 th inft. that the objeft of c
the King of Sweden's journey into Germa- t ;
ny, was firft to fee the king of Prussia at
Pyrmont ; but prlnciprlly to elpoufe appri- t ]
cess of the lioufe of Saxe Coburgh, whither a
his Swtdifh majesty has gone. The king p
of Prussia is returned to Berlin. t j
Mr. Higgins the messenger has been dif- ti
patched by government with advices to the Ci
hon. Robert Walpole, his majesty's ambaffa- y
dor at the court of Portugal.
Mr. Pitt came to town yesterday from ft
Holwood, and Mr. Secretary Nepean had J £
a long intetview with him at his house in f-
Downing street, on iuftruftions, it is said, Jv
which are to be sent to eirl St. Vincent
cruising with his fleet off Cadiz, in confe- t ]
quenee of the treaty between France and p
Portugal.
Black collars have been adopted as the ti
co(tuple of the royalists in Paris. The sol- Vl
■ ! diers have torn them off and the beaux call
e it a title of honour to be ftript of their eol
tar. One young man snot a soldier with a
pittol who attempted to pull his off. Or
it ders, however, have been given to appre
e bend every soldier who /hall attempt to in
e fulc any citieen on account of his dress.
n I he inhabitants of all the towns in
Holland, particularly those of Amsterdam,
rr are very "hoftik to the French, and endea
vour by every means in therp power, to shake
a off the French yoke. The Dutch, in all
i. their public meetings, make no hesitation in
f- expressing the strongest antipathy against
t, their invaders ; but the powerful arm of ty
i- ranny still keeps them in fubjedfcion.
A printed address, bearing the Agna
il tures of about i 50,000 perfotis was lately
circulated in eledtorate of Treves, inviting
1- the inhabitants of the left bank of the Rhine
if • to'depofp their govertrbrs, and either join
le | with France, or establish themselves into an
1- independent republic. Gen. Hochc, con
y fidering this revolutionary system as being
h ioconfiitent with the preliminaries of peace,
r- in which the integrity of the Germanic em
i- • pire is (iipulated, eaufed the address to be
n suppressed, and some of the principals in the
if business to be banished frinn Bonn,
ft | Though there can be little danger of any
I attempt to commence the siege of Gibraltar,
n yet such is the precaution of government'
1, that the store of fait provisions now in the
■- garrison, is said to be fufficitnt to Hip ply a
ny reasonable consumption for five years to
a come. The principal spring of Water, how.
e ever, is under the command of the Spanilh
■- batteries.
It is confidently said, that general Simcoe
n who a few days since arrived from the Weft-
Indies in the Swallow armed brig, has come
home to represent to government the abfo
t lute necessity offending „, lt to St. Domin
go a considerable military force for the fup
e port of the British ioterefts in that quarter ;
11 and we learn it is in contemplation of gov
s ernment to complete five or fix regiments,
f j by draughts from Ireland and Chatham bar
-1 racks, which regiments are to be immedi
ately sent to St. Domingo.
The Maidflone frigate, from Africa, is
arrived at Barbadoes with a privateer of m
guns and 70 men, which (he took on her
passage.
August 23 —24.
Dispatches from lord Malmefbury were
. this day received at the feeretarv of state's
. fr »m Lisle, by Mr. Wick, the mes
senger, who reached Calais in 12 hours, and
' was only 9 h °u« in his passage to Dover ;
. when he arrived, no communication was
. permitted with the vessel. The dispatches
, were transmitted to lord Grenvilie at Drop
more. They are said to be of the firft im
portance ; but nothing particular has trans
pired.
... le ' or d Malmefbury at Lille is
likely to be of longer duration than was at
' firft txpefted ; his lordship has taken a
. house there for himfelf and his retinue.
• The Hamburgh mail, due on Sunday
1 last, arrived this day.
The intelligence from Italy relates to tlis
troubles in Piedmont, and to the distresses
at Venice.
This day arrived a moil from Lifton,
brought to Falmouth by the Walfingham
Packet in II days. It is said to bring ad
vice of :he bombardment of Cadiz having
wholly ceased ; aud that rear-admirrl NeU
son has been derashed by earl St. Vincent,
with 3 fhipj of the line and 4 frigates, on
an expedition against the island of Tcneriffe.
The fleet were to call at Gibraltar f«r fotpe
transports, with troops and ammunition,
to be employed in the enterprise.
Paris remains in a (late of perfeft tran
quillity, notwithstanding which the military
preparations are continued with much a£li
vity. Two more regiments of cavalry are
arrived, and the Champ de Mars is filled
with cannon.. The breach between the
councils and the diredlory does not appear
to have received s complete reparation.
1 lie former naturally view the proceedings
of the latter with a jealous eye, and are
adopting every prats/cable means to abridge
'-he'r military nutherity and influence. The
council of five hundred, in the fitting of
the 17th irift. decreed that the directory
should not have power to cashier officers at
their discretion ; and that no naval or mili
tary officer should for the future be difroif
fed, except by virtue of a legal judgment.
In the fitting of the 17th, a very flattering
..atemsnt was presented to the council, of
the amount of the receipts and expenditures
of the public.money, and a committee was
appointed to report upon the abuse of the
liberty of the pj-efs.
1 he armies ft:ll continue to address tha
direSory Upon the conduft of the councils,
in language the most severe and intemperate:
to which, it is certain, they ire encouraged
by their commanders. General Hoehe has
at length thrown off the mantle of disguise
and boldly declared to his troops tlie iiiten,
tions of the dire&cry, of whom he is the
1110 ft determined partizan. Thus it is no
longer doubtful, that notwithstanding all
the equivocation of the drreSory upon the
fubjeft, it is their determination to violatp
oii« of the most effeutial principles of the
constitution which' they have sworn to main
tain, by marching the force into the
interior 01" France, without the fanftion of
the legislative bodies, fhonld they find fucfv
an expedient neceflary to answer their own
private view's and ambitious purpofe3.* By
tiiefe means they may secure a temporary *' •
triumph j but the viftory of force over la\v
can never be deemed honorable, nor i» it
likely that its effects can be permanent.
The late strong gales of wind from the
loiuh-weft have compelled lord Bndport to
leave, for a time, bis station before Brest.
His lordship's fleet was off Falmouth on
Monday evening.
The foreign journals contain rumours of
the signing of the Definitive Treaty of
Peace .between the Ertiperor and French r< -
public. This report appears to be prema
ture ; atleaft, it is probable, that of an e
vent so important, we should, Ufore thit,W had information by the French paperi. <
Oy the lad accounts from Vienna, indeed,
t.iere is intelligence that seems to counte
nance this report. The Emperor, it is fa id
is to retain Mantua ; and to be indemnified
tor.thf lpfs of Lombardy, by Dalmatia,
and a part of the Venetian Terra Fir
ma. The rumors upon this fubjea have
yen so frequent and so contradictory that
( . they lhculd be received with caution. If it
found to be true, vs'e fliould consider it as
a fayeurable omen for the return of a gene
!" , P eace - T'}°r»gh apparently separate, it
j w?• Potable that the negociations at
L dina, and at L.ifie, have been in a confi
rfsrable degree connected ; and they may
both, therefore, be expe&ed to have a com
mon re fait: A confirmation of peace with
the Emperor, would afford ground to be
lieve, that there is a fair profpeft of a fa
vourable ifTue to lord Malmefbury's riecoci
ation. b
The report that the new Dutch Conditu
tion has been rejefted, gains ground. It 1
has already been rejeited in some places, and '
the accounts from that country agree in Ha
ting its acceptance, by the majority, as cx- I
tremely uncertain. t
Government have lately contrasted for,
and are fending off with as much expedition
as possible to the squadrons employed in the '
blockade of the enemy's ports, immense J
quantities of vegetables. A gardener, at t
■lotherhithe,. has already lent off to tht vest
ft!s at the Red House, Deptford, which are I
employed on this service, 50,000 cabbages, '
00,000 carrots, 50,000 leeks, 103,000 oui- 0
ons, and 60 tons of potatoes, which are r ,
Ml the completed manner to prevent \
Spoiling iu the carriage.
August 25-^-26.
We are bappy to announce the fafe ar- u
r ' va l of the Leeward island fleet, in the el
Downs, at Bridol, and the other ports to
which they were dedined. r '
We received lad night a regular ft ries of
the Paris papers up to Wednesday last. The ni
mod material article of intelligence brought pi
by this conveyance, is a letter from the re
commander in chief of a battalion of Berna-
divifion, upon the fubjeft of the trea
ty titween the emperor and the French re
public, which announces the ratification of
the conditions of peace, by his imperial ma- d;
jefty, 011 the 30th ult. This letter is dated
Udina, the feat of negociation, July 31ft, m
and the following is a literal translation of in
't : ta
" May my letter announce to you fuffi- pt
ciently soon the happy news which I have cl
just learned. A courier that arrived last ■to
night from Vienna, dispatched by the mar- is
quis di Gallo, announces that the emperor P<
has ratified the conditions of peace, such as ur
they were presented to him. All the world ta
rejoices. I hasten to close my letter, that so
it may reach you sooner."
Notwithstanding the tirft impression made, 1
on the authority of this intelligence, vague D
and nor.-official as it certainly is, on a more tic
attentive perusal of these papers, we do not ed
fee reiifon to give implicit credit to this re- J th
I port. If the definitive treaty of peace had in
really been figtied on the 30th, at Udina;- it gr
could not have be<;n unknown to Buonaparte nu
kf Milan, 011. th«.j( f,th of August, the date pr<
of the following official communication to thi
the directory, p which no notice is taken Id
ot that event. Se
•' Citizens Directors,
" After the battle of Rivoli; I announced
that 21 (lands of colours would be sent you, Tn
of which you have yet .only received 16'. I Ra
fend you by general Bernadotte, the reft, rot
which were left, by mistake at Pefchiero al 1
This excellent officer, who had established wa
his reputation on the Bank of the Rhine, I
s now one of the officer* molt essential to ! Gc
the glory of the army of Italy. He com- ■ ver
mands the three divisions which are on the 1
irontiersof Germany. I entreat you to be his
so gtjod as toallow him to return to the ar- 1
iriy of Italy as soon as possible. I ought Fr«
not to omit this opportunity of paying to Bu
his brave division, and the troops which last eve
year arrived in the army of Italy from the sup
Rhiiie, and from the Sambre and Meufe, the par
tribute of praise which I owe to their ser
vices.—--On every occasion they have sur
mounted all opposition ; at the pafTage of
the Tagliamento, as well as at the attack of An
Gradifca, they displayed that courage and J
that ardent zeal for the national glory 1 , which fays
diftinguidi the army of the republic. You thei
will *?d in general Bernadotte, one of the friei
mod solid friends of the republic, from pri|i- Cor
ciple and from character, equally incapable and
of any compromise with the enemies of li- not!
berty, or of any aft that could tarnish his to t
honor. ity 1
•(Signed) BUONAPARTE.
The following article is extrafted from the
Brulfels papers which were received this 1
morning, down to the 20th. Ed o
Vienna, Augujl 9. Though it is well tran
known that the definitive treaty with the
French republic is signed, our court does not A
think proper to publifit the articles—politi- San'
cal reasons are said to account for this pro- in v,
ceeding.—To judge by the hodile prepara- said
tions still carrying on, our court certainly
meditates some important projeft ; as, in- N
stead of putting the armies* upon the peace havi
establishment, their augmentation iacontinu- Emi
ed—that of Italy is to be re-inforced to fides
10,000, and that-of the Rhine-to 70,000 ris.
men.
Paris, Augujl 21, Paris has been re- Ii
markably quiet tp-day, nor have the bills were
pqfted 011 the walls been so numerous or so and I
virulent as yederclay and the day before. our ,
At lad the. long expe&ed report on the menl
mefiVge of the dircftory has been brought ly.
lip to-day.
It is evident the royalids expected that Paflc
upon would have been entirely in their fa
'or, as they had previously taken care to M
spread the dolt ajarming accounts of con- M
fpiracies, plots for arresting and murdering his !
several deputies, (hutting tl»e barriers, the now
introduction of troops and cannon into the M
city, &c. They even went so far as to re- Lad;
port confidently that the plan of the com- S:
fr.iffitm was to propose a decree of accusation
en. aj.Ku.ft cli- di,v£Wy, auj in cafe the latte
■ed, made arty resistance, to ojt-law them imme
nte- mediately (les mettres hors-la-loi). Bu
said how great mud their disappointment nov
hed bv, on feeing that itidead of the violent rnea
tia, fures, of which they had formed such fan
- guine expe£lations, the commission, tho H{r l
ave . it accuses the direftory of indiscretion, shew:
hat the fincerett desire to bring on a reconcile
tit tion between the government and the le<rif.
tas iative body ! It is certain that by propofino
ne- conciliatory measures, the commission has
,it only spoken the sense of the great majority
!at of the council, who are sincerely resolved to
nfi- maintain it, notwithstanding the private in
lay trigues of the royalids, who have found
>m- means to creep into the legidative body with
ith the lad third part, and whose underhand
be- manoeuvres have been the cause of the pre
fa- sent didurbances.
ci-
PA RI-s, Auj»iift 16.
;u . They report that Gen Sch-rer his afTured
j t ome of ins friends thatG-n. T.jpogpe was soon
n( j tofucceed liini as Wr Miniftrr.
ta- F - rom thf Am " Des La,s -
n * has hcen d fptaced for havin?, as
tome papers fay,oppofed the march of the-troops
to Pans.
ir, The.new colours sent to the JlfTerent demi
on brigades of the army of Italy, are truly magni
he hrent * T!,e nam « of ihe battles it which ever
ife r j y c r rp ' . Hra, l ,rerent are In golden letters
In the middle u an infcriptlon j for example, on
the colours of the jia." My mind was eafy—
the 31ft was there." On thnfe of the 15th,"
re I know you—vou will heat them," On those of
■s, thei4th an 4 *,,1 Light Infantry," The palTage
ii- °/ fyrol. —On of ihe c 7 th, The ter
re rible - ,-th bears down all before it." On those of
nt '/ ' rhe , " ttl covered itfclf with glo
ry- ! hefe inscriptions of an antique and flmph
' 'emind the fold ers of the battles where
th ey have fi.anallzed infpire tli-m
r- with new ardo-ir, and inlame them with thit
, e enth'ufiafm which Is the forerunnar of viaory.
■° 9'"' Angereau has given orders to have eve
ry Jo hirer taken up who fhouhl attempt to infnlt
any Citizen on account of hii ireA—This has
entirely put an end to the disputes between 'he
military and the young men, so that now all is
it perreelly quiet. The Parisians seem as iodifie
ic real to every political event as-usual.
L' NEW-YORK, Oflober 24.
OF PEACE.
if The following appears under the Paris
1- dateof 21ft Aug. (thelateft).
d The negociation at Lisle goes on in the
:, mofl languid manner. England is obstinate
if in retaining all the possession* which die had I
taken front Holland, and France, on her part I
i- pretends that she is bound by the treaty con- J
e ( eluded with that Republic, to hive restored
I.to it all that it has loft during the war. It I
- is remarkable, that at the moment when I
r Peace is mod neceflary to France, they vol
s untarily deprive themselves of all its advan
-1 tages, for the interest of two states that are
t foreign to them.
, ' Ninth of August, the President of the I
e Dutch National Assembly gave pfficial no
" tice, that fix French men of war had arriv- j
t ed at Batavia, by means of which squadron I
- 1 that principal place of the Dutch pofTeffions
1 in India, where provisions of all kind are iif I
t great abundance, owing to the arrival of a
; number of neutral velfels, is molt efTeaually
: protested from all hostile attacks. This is I
) the squadron which lately failed from the '
1 Iflede France under the orders of admiral '
Sercy. j
I A n aftio'n has taken places in the Eift I
, Indies between the Britilh troops, and the !
Rajah of Cotiote, in which Major Came- I
, ron, the commander fell, with.the addition- I c
al loss of 300 men. The Rajah was after- 10
I wards subdued and brought to fubmiflion.
I Lord Macartney arrived at the Cape of
; Good Hope, on the 4th of May last. E
' very thing remained quiet at that place.
Ihe king of Prulfia is recoveriug from ;
his late indisposition. b
It is dated from several quarters, that the ?
French Diredory have inftrufted General S
Buonaparte, to afford the king of Sardinia
every succour that may be neceflary to the C
support of his throne, against the seditious
part of his fubjeds.
BATAVIAN REPUBLIC.
The Oracle, an English paper of 22d I S
Attguft, states the following: IB
A letter from the Hague, August 16, £
fays, " the primary afTemblies have exprefled
their detestation ,of citizen Noel and his
friends, by every ad of publicity; The new ni
Constitution was rejected on the Bth inft. Ip;
and the people are determined to fanftion I
nothing which gives such unlimitted power I
to the French. It wasrejeftedby a major- ISI
ity of more than 15,000.
B
TREATY WITH PORTUGAL.
The French council of 500, haveapprov- I SI
ed of this treaty, but no particulars had yet I St
transpired.
K
A dreadful earthquake has happened at I
Santa Fe and Panama, in South Amerjca, I pc
in which between 30 and 40,000 fouls are S<
said to have perished. lo
th
M. Necker, the Ex-financier of France, be
having been struck off the proscribed lift of ds
Emigrants, is returned to France, and re
sides at prefeut in the neighbourhood of Pa- G
ris. ta
I th
In a former paper we stated that Crowns M
were received in the banks at eight JhUlings an
and ten pence, or one hundred and tjen cents; be
our informant was not correft in his state- lal
bank recivethem at 110 cents on- I CI
lj- j ou
Paffengcrs in the Chel'apeake, Capt. Robt. I br
Adatnfon, from Bristol. frc
Mr. and Mrs. Garnet, and family,
Mrs. Hardy, Lady of Capt. Hardy, of thi
his Britannic Majedy's frigate. Thift? A
now in this Harbour.
Miss Woodcock, Sifter to the above
Lady.
Samuel Elam, Esq.
Dunderdalc, I£fq.
ttcr \Ve hear that the Prefide.-.t of the Oaitecj
■ Tl£> States intends honouring the New Circus
But Greenwich -ft reef, with his presence, this
low evening', at the representation of that grand
iea. and much admivtd Pantomime, The Ameri
la ii- ean Heroine.
Jgh _
?ws The Venl li a, in 44 days days from Ci
lia- braltar, brings the
LateJ} Netvs from off Cadi*. <
ing The (hip Venilia, captain Payne, failed
has from Gibraltar on the ?th September, un
•ity der convoy of the Dolphin, a Brifclh yo gun
to Hup After pa fling through the Straits,
in- was boarded by a frigate from Lord St. Vin
ind cent's fleet, who were then ftiil at anchor
ith before Cadiz. , (f
nd Capt. Payne was t>ound. to, Leghorn, but
•e- on account of the iniipmerable' French crui
sers, was unable tn> proceed. No Ameri
can can possibly escape, and several had been
captured and sent into Algeziras and con
on demned, while capt. P. was at Gibraltar, j
chiefly bound to Malaga for fruit ; dino»<r
them was the schooner Juliet, capt. Horton
a 8 of this port. This must greatly enhance
,p s the value of that article this season.
i; XIK -
in PHILADELPHIA, \
- WEDNESDAY -EVENING, Octobpr ,V
> i ;
Citizen! are mojl cordially ■
r- congratulated on the following j
pleasing Report: <
L* <
re CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
K p Fmm to 2 5 th Oft. in the morning. I
Remaining last Report
t l Admitted fmce, NONE. 11
1, Discharged, NONE. '
•» Dled . NONE.
it Remain i.nHofpital, jConvalefceot,i s l „
TV * , l S,ck HJ 8
1 hree ot whom are dangerous. r
Interred in City Hospital burying ground ].
since lad report :
From the city and suburbs, NONE.
j From the city hospital, NONE. s
SmrHiN Girar#, n
e (Signed) Caleb Lownes,
. . John Connelly.
, Published by order of the board.
\ JOHN MILLER, JTun.
, Chairman.
C 5" Coxe pledges himfelf to the public
\ "> P rovt •" days, that the afertions con
tained in Dr. Currie's publication againjl Dr.
Rush, in the Gazette ofihe United Stales of the
6th irift. arefalfe or mfreprefented.
Phi/ad. Offuber 2sth, 1797.
Extraa of a letter from Cape Francois, dated
Oftober i, 1797.
" I wrote you the 21ft ult. Since this 0<
period I have nothing new to communicate,
rave the arrival at Port de Park of the two
, French frigates from America. ' They were
closely pursued k off this island, and were
very near being captured, ' «.
'• The com million still continue to con- J
demft our veflels bound to Englilh ports ; 0i
and the privateers and gun-boats take every
thing they fall ill' with. Veflels captured
bound to French ports are set at liberty,
but the administration take their cargoes,
and consequently ruin their voyages."
Isaac Tichenor, esq. it eleAed by the aflercbly
erf Vermont, governor of that fUte, by a majority
of 44-
Paul Brif ham, efq, it elecled lieu', governor
Samuel MattocVi," treafprrr.
Rofwcll Hopkins, feeretary.
Counfellnrs.
Meflrt. William Chamb?rlin,Jonej Galufta St--
phen Jacob, Duke Knoulton, Corn.liusLynds, E
bencz.r Marvin,'Gideon CHin, Elijah a'obinfo-, Scl
Annuel Safford, John Strong, John White, anj Sin
Samuel Williamt, efquirca.
Abel Spencer, speaker of tht house.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. Sm
— Scl
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
r
arrived, days . Suf
Ship Clothier, Gardiner, Liverpool 70 bou
Brig Jane, \anfife, Cape Francois 24 put
Sch. Kitty, Dillingham, Gonaives 30 ing
Little Will, Eagleion, P. Prince 28 hair
The (hip New-York, Capt. M'Cloud in Sep
nine days from Londonderry, with 440 1
passengers, ha» arrived at New-Cattle. • v of
New York, OSoler 24. wit!
arrived. days Lio
Ship Chesapeake, Adamfon, Bristol 56 beth
Catharine, Macey, Liverpool 6? brig
Brig Eliza, White, Aux Cayts ter ;
•cleared. Suss
Ship Christiana, Paine, New Orleans panj
Schr. Peggy, Redfern, Halifax t
Ship Warren, captain Church arrived at mizt
Kingston, in 24 days from Wilmington. . in I
Arrived (hip Catherine, Macey, Livtr- carg
pool, 60 days. Sept. 11, spoke the ship rum,
Sophia, of and from Baltimore to Bremen, woo
long. 17, out todays. Sept. 28, fpokc of si
the schooner John ofMarblehead, from Lif- 16 c
bon to New-York, or Marblehead, out 38 pafle
days, long. 38, lat. 41. ; ng ,
Arrived ship Venelia, Paine, 41 day« from on b
Gibraltar—the Venelia failed from Gibral- O
tar 011 the 7th September in company with W\
the following American veflels :—the brig anch
Mary, York, of and bound to Philadelphia mafl
and the brig Ariel Field of New-York, that
bound to the Weft-Indies. Oftober 11, waft
Cheeftman, of and frotii NtvV-York, 5 days on 11
out—all well. rc ttn
Odt 15, lat. 29, long. 57,:fpoke the Y
brig.Sally, of and bound to Newbury-port, Patt
from Jacquemel—all well. Oce:
Admiral Jervis was still before Cadiz when Ron
the Venelia failed. ; T
Aliftof Americau veflelstaken bytheFrench bour
and Spaniards and carried into Algeziras diftr
from the beginning of April to the last of Oce;
August, 1797, which are ih the follow- tress
ing situation, viz. has \
Ship Columbia, Cook, Norwich, and 1 O
~ited Snow Mary, IWmra, Boston, the feme
reus, the eargo, the latter the vessel and
this condemned by the Spaniard*.
ran ? r .^' p E!IZ3 ' Tt - lrner . and brig- Byficld,
nm- Linffman, of Boston ; ship Roanonke,.
,'T' °. Carolina, not yet condemn
ed, but ftronrrly expefted will be.
Gi- Also, two brigs lately carried in by the
trench, which we are almost Aire will be
condemed.
uled At Ceuta, we hear of the following vef
un- fels condemned—Capt. Fairchild of Bof
gun ton and capt. Bray of Philadelphia.
Jits, I.ift of veflels left at Aux-Caves 24th Sept
V n " received by the brig Eliza, from Aux
:hor Cayes.
Brig Julius Pope, New York
but Laurania, , Philadelphia
rul " 1 air American, —,
eri- Eliza, Townfend, Silem
een j Elizabeth Coates, Johnson, Newbury- Port
! o . G i or Z e - Bart let, Baltimore
far, j Sch r. Polly, Thurfton, New-York
).»!J William, Holbrook, . Boston
ton Nancy, Tyler, Washington N. C.
nee Fancy, Gsilcrfon, Newbqry-port
Sioop Sally, Waters, Philadelphia
? „ Sea Flower, Smith, New Haven
From the flcop Rache), Gilbert l rnaOcr
from the etth.Sept. when hn Iff; Pnrtde ?aix ' |
On the 29'h Sept. wj, b n ?rded a'r. af> of the !
weft Cayccs bv the .Aqujlon
Hm very politely and let him pjft without Ion" c!e
,, lay, there were in crmpany the Vir.x frigate jn/
an Aiwerlcan Kriyr.
Tv . ° n ,t S ? d o *" hcr '» 28, 10, N. anrli Ion?.
V 7 t ' ,a w . a fcljooner (I mding to the foytl-ward ;
;p- IJ 1 '- bors nway anH run down towards u», fi re d a
15 | inot and h'oiOed Anvrrican color«, and after a fmr.l!
chafe,hajiled her wind, fired another (hot, and haul- 1
ea down her colours- "
Ofi. 3, in lat 29, 4,N.Jong. M' saw a
TeuVr, msft with the erofs tr.es on it," and wc be- :
lieve the cip and ringing.
19 8, in lat. 34, vs.N. Jor.jt. 73, 1? , f-j]
with a xh'p's mainmast, which had been cut away 1
the wind being li K ht, took out th« boat, And went 1
to it and towed it along fide, from which saved top
gallant mjft, top fail, tcp gallant fail and royal
marked on the fails, S. Allen, fail maker, London, I
• J snd Ufo saved the top yard, lower rigging and top
mart ngging, aad fonie running rigging and fevc- 2
. ral blocks. "
A lif} of American vejfels that Lave be:n brought into Port- j ..
h-pfiix. fmct the \<th Aug. tiUt'c % s tl s c pt. mm
ed by tbe fl)of> Rachel.
Slip Cod.'eftj,/ Pknty,Cliurnftdet, Philadelphia, ngJem- I *
' B„ Z Amelia, H'.ujlon, de. condemned, I
Rambler. Onden, da. cleared,
Alfred, Leivit, Ncw-TTorh,condemned,
Harriet, Phipt, Baltimore, do.
B'tfey,LivingJhn, Norfolk, do " |o
Polly, , Alexandria, condemned in Jean Realel. lIT
Schr. Alcope, Rice, Philadelphia,condemned, 0;
Ballahoo, ——, do. condemned, I
<C Hazard, Toung, Boston, do.
Pomona, Roiertt, New fori, cleared, I °'
Dolphin l Baltimore, do. lat
e Betsey, Rogers, SorfM. condemned, |C
Sufannab, , Philadejphia, cleared, hi
Sloop Farmer, Killet,-Hen-York, condemned,
Poly, , Digbton, fsr trial\
Pnc, Brooke, Charlcjlon, cleared.
1 Bofhon, oSober 16. 'V
ARRIVED. tn
s oa. 14 —trig Indujtry, J.amiert, Madeira m
, Al ' rt < AM, Lifkon I to
fch. Nancy, 7yrnlull, Bordeaux in
sloop Hope, Mo-well, Beverly ov
Indvjlry, Bridget, do. _
: fch. Fair Play, Oak,, Gloucefier
Delight, Groft, Wilmington -C
■ , . Arethufa, Peterfon, Charlcjlon \
Ovt. 10—brig Rainbaiv, But nan, St. Croix H
/si. Betsy, Johnson, Merimeche I J
In J:,fry, Crjini, Halifax I re,
P,ace K ar.d Plenty, White, Aux Cayes on
trig Biljyi mitrnarjk, BMmore A
Jtoop Indian. Bifiey, Sal.n
S-u-allorv, Savward, Glcueefer I
ft h. Godfrey, Lovdar.d, Ha'fax
Brothers, Mafvin, J 0
Retrieve. Crffij, Clarlef.on
H.tty, Hu&ne, FacderiMur*
sloop Po'y. Fef-nden, PhVade'.fbia
Thee Bi otbert, Hajle't, Nrmlur*port I
Charleston, OtSober 8. j
arrived. Days
Ship Susannah, Stevenson, Kingston,
( fam.) 36
Schr. Polly, Lowe, Naflau, (N. P.) 12
Sloop Cleopatra, Tate, Savannah 3
Ship Ocean, Williamfon, St. Ann's, I
(Jam.) 32 npi
Snow Romulus, Wallace, Oftend 80
Schr. Cummings, Patton, C. N. Mole 16 }
. I
SEA STORM. CQn
The /hips Ocean, capt. Williamfon, and bed
Susannah, capt. Stevenson, are Englilh fliips j e n,
bound from Jamaica to London, and have I *
put in here in a moftdiftreffed situation, hav- No '
ing encountered in lat, 29, 47, off the Ba- r 'o
hama Banks, the heavy gale of the 26th of
September.
The Ocean left Lucie on the ijorth fide j '
of Jamaica, 011 the 6th ult, in company j ,
with the ftiips Ocarabefla, Storey, and New j
Lioness, Richey, for Loudon ; (hip" - Eliza- the 1
beth, ReGde, of and for Greenock, rnd j l 3ni -l
brig Mary, Mickford, of and for Lancas
ter ; falling to leeward, they fell in with the |
Susannah in ihe Gulph, and were all in com- j si
pany during the gale. j p
The Ocean loft all her mads, except her ' A
mizen and main lower masts, had 5 water I(
in her hold, when the gale abated': her
cargo confiftcd of 450 hogflieads offugar, 1
rum, coffee, pimento, mahogany and log
wood, and had pumped out about 100 hhds.
of fngar, and threw > overboard 7, out of
16 of htr guns. The day after the gale, she
passed a*large (hip, without a mast stand- Oi
ing, and apparently without a living person
on board, as no fignalgwas (hewn.
On Friday evening, the 6th inft. captain
W. passed the Ocarabefla, capt. Stor'cy, at
anchor off Cape Roman, with only her fore- a t thi
maftftanding; capt. S. informed capt. W.
that his chief mate and one man had teen
waihed overboard, and that he had then 7
feet water in his hold ; he had sent his boat
on shore for a pilot, and was waiting for its
return.
Yesterday arrived the schooner Cummins,
Patton, Cape Nichola Mole, 16 days ; ship CC
Ocean, Williams, Jamaica, 32 days ; snow ln f°'
Romulus, Wallace, Oftend, 80 days, Exc
The Ihips Susannah and Ocean were
bound to Londoh, but have put in here in
distress, occasioned by a heavy gale, the l^e
Ocean is difirafted. Another fiiip in dif- be r
tress, also from Jamaica, bound to London, boar
has been spoken with off Cape Fear. A
On the 191b Sep\. near St. At'gullinc, ®
>rmer Captain Stevenson met with a Hatebor" & In,
cargo named Lovely ; her marts had all gone c.v«
flie hue; he hailed her repeatedly, hut could
field, get no answer, and could not fee any thin;
nake,. living on board but a dog ; the sea and wind
!emn- were so high that he could not board her •
fte appeared light andeafy upon the water',
? the as though (lie (till remained tight,
ill be The ftip May Flbwer, Eifkop of tlaa
port, was carried into -Nassau before ca'it.
■ vef- Lowe failed.
Bos- ExtraSf-cm the of the fnoie Row
lus, Capiain Wallace, in 80 {lavs from
Sept. OJi-'nd.
ux - " Lat - 49> 3°) I'ong. 15, ty, was board
ed by a, French privateer and robbed of a
fork spy glass and four cafe bottles of gin.
phia " Aug. 26. lat. 38, 26, long. 56, i O ,
spoke the Swedish (hip Neptune, capt. Da
ilem niel Jaderbern, from Alicant, bound to
Port Baltimore, with the following paffengera oa
lore bo2rd :
'olk " Mr. Joseph P. Tvjufgnive, of the ftiip
fton Governor Mifflin, of Philadelphia ; captam
.C- J on Cruff of the barque Pomona, William
port S. Pin-rimer, of the brig Telemnebus, and
phia James Af.vood ofithe fchoontr Abigail of
iven Boston ; capt. William Muo-ford, of th*-
■ftcr, brig Eliza of Salem, and capt John Proud
X thr o *. the br; g FriendHiip of Providence : all of
a-ed . lvtlDm have been captured by the F-ench
tie- 111 t!le Mediterranean, carried into Cartha
ancf gena, and their vessels and cargoes condem
ed, fur the war. to; a role, d'eouipage in r.ro
,nft- per form.
eel*-J '" -fheNeptune waslaft from Carlhngena,
ml! Where (he left seven Ameriean vessels con
aul- demned.
" The Neptune left at Alicant the ffcip
L- ' na .Kennedy of Charleston ; (hip Sara!;,
Hopkins, and brig Sifters, Coggefhall, of
in kohon ; snip John and Martha, Knapp, of
y — Newbury-port ; and the brig Venus, Tu
ent lin, of New-York, all ready for sea, but
■yTl a . not venture on account of the French
on, P r ' y ateers, who paid uo refpeft to any flag,
top September 2, lat. 37, 10, long. 58,
ve- 27, spoke the snip Julius Pringle, of
I Charleston, from London, bound to Virgi
nia, out 8 weeks. 0
* Sept. 17, spoke capt. Hardy in his
•»>- I Majesty's (hip fhiibe, of 40 guns, from
Halifax, who supplied us with 140 lbs. of
bread, and 12 lbs. of sugar."
tuomas Wallace.
A guard was put on board the Romulus,
on her arrival at Oftend, who did not per
mit ca P l - Wallace or any of his crew to go
on (hore for 30 days; nor was the vefTel per
mitted to be entered until captain Wallace
obtained the interference of Mr. Skrpwith,
lat Paris. Ihe Romulus having touched ajt
Cowes, they considered her at Oftend as
having cleared from an Englilh port, which.
I occasioned the above treatment.
*The fhipLiefdy,which was met with on
her beam-ends by the Diana, who took off
I the crew and carried them to Savannah, (as
ra mentioned under the Savannah head) is said
on I to be the fame (hip that the Susannah fell
'* ln with, and which is called the Lovely in
b our paper of yesterday.
m footman Co s sliiEtion i Room.
M I -
* T HE r" blic are refpeafully Informed, thai the
' I Worg of the fublcribers is bow open for the
X I rec^P t^on Goods, and the Hales will cQiumence
' J ' 011 "••onday next, the 30th intt. when will be fold,
™ A ar g e affortfnent of Dry Goods.
■r AMONG WHICH ARE,
x Su;iersi:e aud common Cloths
Caflimeres I*larne's, BhDkets
„ 1 Coatings and Baizes
1 Cotton and vvorfted Hosiery
I Cii'mzes and Calicoes ,
■1 j Chintz an.l purple Shawls
J Book and jaconet Muffins
j White and brown Linens, '
Tickings, Checks and Stripes.
I ALSO
) A quantity of Ladies' Morocco Shoes.
I | FGOIMAN \2f Co. AuSion:ey,
j -° fl - -»4- d
j TO BE LE "T—At a moderate Rent,
, The principal part of aHOUSE,
1 , W , IT , H '- N a<hort Alliance of the Coffee-houle,
which has been occupied fjr the lad four months,
I confiding of a good dining room and parlour, two*
j bed rooms a drelTing.room, two garrets, kjtch*
en, wood vault arid cellar, all fn excellent order,
fit lor the immediate reception of a small famil-.
None need apply but those who are re.peAable and
regular. Inquire at the office of this Gazette
0,8 '4 £
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
fißt NOW OPENING,
At their Worchoufe, No. 27, Dock Street, afrcfii
afTortment of Woolen and other goods, iuitable to
j the feafou, received by the late arrivah froai □r
land. &
'Tilt: baye .aifo for Sale,
Lilbon
!' Teller ijfc (
Sherry, and f P'P".''tas. aud quarter caiks-
Port Wipes, J
AiTorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo- ijd. dlw3taw.svr.
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Co&e
Madeira and Tenerifle Wine
tor Ea e by
James Turd,
No. —,South tourth-dreet.
oa. 6. d3W
A
OF thf SELKCr and CO VIMOM COUNCILS
of the City of Pwlav:lmha', will b.- hel-1 tn'
Thursday n< x:, at eleven o'clock in- tb„ morning,
at the State-house.
Uy order, •
VVI.LIAM H. TCD.
Cleifc of the Seleil Council.
EDWVVJtD J. COALE,
Clerk, of the Common Couneil-
OA. ao. d(T S 6 t
NUi l C L. ~
C 3" Samuel RiCHARiET, refpefilfuHv
informs the gentlemen, fubferibers to the
Exchange, that on Thursday next, the 2(Sth
iuft. it will be openfot- their accommodation.
He begs leave to acquaint his ftiends and
the public, that the Oity Tavern will also
be ready for the reception of gentlemen
boarders.
An ordinary ns ufial at three o'clock.
o&ober2i. diw.Imported in the ftiip Manchester,
Benjamin Shhweli., Mailer, ~
From 2onr.lcr.ux, attdl for sale by the I'ubi'criber, J
i 'o. tr Walnut St ret.
Bonrtleflus Bratidy "J
Irifo market claret in cases { Etitiilcd to -«
Jvlcdoc i i 'do. 1 Drawback. 1 J
Gniilernc, do. do. J '-hi
Thomas Margatreyd.
*V H O HAS FOR SALF. ("1
Cherry Wine irt pipes and quarter cartes fl
Rota do. do.
Pirr.ento in b3gs
4000 buftfls Liverpool fair.
A«£. 24. tutScctf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
Toth* high.li Vlddtr, at the hoTife of Mr.
William I2v«us, the of Ito4i^ n
OjK't n, 111 :lie city of Baltimore, on tfts
iliiy of oAobe*; at n o'clock, A. M
Ahopt (even tht>ufani! acres of
|he property of V/i!liam Bell, oi Phila lclphu,
ly f-.v K'twecn Reifter's-town and Wrltminfier,
cjuninouly called Li'tle Winchcftcr, (the turn
p ke rV aci runs tlirongh a '•onfifiorabie Pjfrrt
tJj '.he trarf begins about 17 niiies ;
firgstfi ftwtimerc t within a f#litiniircii yards'
cf LI \ ijf-iJcrVtbwii, and extendo to the dif- !
tar.te 6/ abc-ut twenty-three vqilei from Balti
more, Hiid main falls of ■
river, frori three to four miles thereon, XCitl
he fold in. or rine hundred and fifty to!
thtxe 'mndftd acre. There i» a >ar«re propor- ,
tlon of' nu'adow and wood land-on each tra^,
fun? tif highly ;rnproved> .with excellent .
buildings and tine gr;f3.
Ai so !
A trict of fivon Hundred acres of
land, cilied Clover Farms, within live nines of rj
IH.viriifl.yrj, esteemed very Rocd for Grass, ki
Vi. lurd IWonhy, of Bladenlbuigh, will ihew l><
f!iis land to any person inclined to purcliafe, d(
At.se, a
A tracl of land of about three hun
tired .-rid th ; rtv awes, within about two rpilfs
and a half o tbe Prcftdent't hbufe In the Fcde
tal City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine | _
b pirifpedl, froii, which may be fees the
<.Sty of Walhinjtcn, Bladenlburgh,
and a part e>f Ceorje-kawn, and mjny mdes
dijwtt :lit Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fou
-1 V, of BradcnTovVg, will also IJiew this.land. N
A libera! credit * ill be given for tbe g*eatt ft j
part of tbe p'irebafe money, ihe tefm* will 1
be wvae'e known on the d«y X)f iale. ti
Alav 3 a J
, T —-■ d
iud Received, b
Fr&m Batavia(viaProvidence) c<
a few 3outo( Spicei, coufiiHi'g of I o
Nutmegs, Cl'ovciaud.Mace '<
for Tale 1 y , P
IVJLLIKGS 'J FRANCIS.
Pcnn flreet. F
d ' J ,tl
Davis's Law Book Stoty, t]
So. 3i9> Higb-Sirctt. P
GEORGE DAVIS, «
BEINO l.ufied Tor, some time )iaft in prepara
tions 05V removing into his present house, h.s f
been unrief tlienecefiityof ptrflponinguntil this day j
infornih'i; the gentlemen oithe liar generajly thro
the United States, that his spring imposition ef
law books is now arranged and ready for I ale, on
terms that be itdlts will entitle him to the tike fre- _
freetice he ban experienced for leveral years p«ft.
CflMlogae', combining the moil -raried eollec
tion ever uwortcd i/ito this country, are printW
and will be delivered on application-
Intie 17. iaw_6w_ -
City Covun'iJJioner $ OJjice,
Juncxt, 1797- '
IN purfilance of an ordinance from the feleiß '
and common councils, pafled the lid day of
May lart, ifppoiflting the city e#niinifiioners,
and prefcribinp their duties, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
city is divided into five dillriflj,
«ach to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city comniiffioners, whoistobe individually
relponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftrif! No. I. From the south fide ot Ce
rfar-ilrtet, to the north fide of Spruce-flreet, oli
lthe fuperititendence of Nathan Boys.
2. From the north fide of Sptuce-ftreer, to
thtuorlh fWeof Walnut-ttreet,under the fupet
intefldence or Hush Roberts.
Frpm the north fide of Walnut to thefouth
fide c-f Higb-ftreet, under the fupenntendctice »t
Joseph Cliypoole.
4. From tlie north fide of High-street, to nit
north lid.- of Mulberry flreet, under the fuper
inttndenceof Williani Moulder.
5. From the north fide of to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the fupcr
ifttendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The High-flreet to be in comraon.
f5" Aflated meeting of the city rommiflion
era is held at the Old Court House, in High-
Areet, every Tuesday <veuing at 5 o'clock
Ji.lv 14- en]m
Stands for Draymen, b'f.
1,1 pur/uancv of an Ordinance from theSeleß and
Common Comic hybearing date the 11J daj of
Jpril, 1797, providing for the appointme.H of-
City Comnjjftoxeh,Z2c. Hed- the ijtb.
rr'-HE following places are fixed upon by the
1 said City Commissioners for Sfands for
Draymen aittl their Horse«.
In eaftward of Front-street, on
both fides. „ , „
Safiafras, High.Chefnut and Walnut-fltreets,
eastward ol Front-ilreet, on the no.th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide fforn Front to
Tliird-flrett. „
Front-flreat, ea!l fide from Vine-street to
tlfrhh's alley-, •
Front-street, from opposite to B.ack liorle al
fey to Hamilton's flore?, east fide.
VValcr-flreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper'i or Moorr's florts to Pine-street.
Penn-flreet from Pine to Cedar-ltreet, well
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South flrects, eall of I roat
street, fbuth l'dc.
Dock-ftrcet, between Walnut-ftrctl and the
fiag stone croffiilgs, call fide, opposite George
°Seeond-ftreet, between SafTilras and Vine
ftreits, weft fide. .
I- ii'tU-ftrcet, east fwle from Chemut to ftfiil
?aifffras-fireet, from Third to Fourtb-ftrcet,
No drav or liorfe to stand within ten feet of
'"lrJxLs FOR HACKNEY COJCHF.S.
Pine-firo?t, north fide irom Fourth to I'lT'.h
bifth-Kreet, between Chefftut and Walnut
Greets, weft* . , , r , . . ,
bra,ne>rfti*ect, north fide, between Third and
Fourth illeets.
July -»4. mwSeftm
A Literary Treat.
JuJl pulli/bed, haudfjnu'y printed on wr'tthg
paper, pr'-ce I illllar, or
A rcw edition of that popular and entertaining o0
work, sntit'ed f rH
HPHE FORESTERS, an American Tali ; being '
• I a fvqutl to the history of John Bull, the Ci j- •
thier—l:i a f<: lies of letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two fitters, alluding toruceu:political
'ruii!.idl:otii in A merlin.
i'he following cx'traol from the Glavis A J .injorica, u '
Ihews the principal charsflers chat arc i.uiouv.eed: ■
John Bu!L,tht: kingdom of I.upland
111, Mother, the Church of Kcjbnd
His Wife, the Varlian-.ect ''
His filter Peg. the Cl.meh of Scotland
His Brother Patiick, Ireland '■* l
Lewfi,the iv.llgjrir.l of France
Hi*Miftrtft, the Old Conization
His *vw Wife, the Nation ji Rcp r efentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of i
Nicholas FrC(J, thv Dutch Rrpublic
The Franks, the French Republic
The ForcSers, the United states of Amcrita
Robert Lumber, New-Hampshire
John podline, Maffacb.ufctls
Humphrey Plowlhate, Conns&icut
Roger Cairier, Rhode IHand
Peer Bull Frog, New-York
Julius CVfar, New-Jerfejr
William Broadbrim, Peunf'lvania
Catlimar,' Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandjon, George Wafltingtcn y
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Cliirles Indigo, Jouti Carolina w
George Ti<u:ly, Georgia t f,
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont j
Hunter Longknifc. Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves ce
Rats, Speculators t0
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacolins .
This popular and entertaining satirical Hila
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel-
knap. It hasagrnat (bare of originality and a- tu
bounds with genuine huir.cur. It is continued
down to tbe present time, and charafierifes those
late political tranfadions which havti caused Co "
nruch u«eafin<fs-in America. -j
Sold by IL and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, I
; ,Sou{li Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' Hjtet.
Jinie 16. ' 5 ci
LAW BOOKS,
Lnteft London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Seeond, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just r.-»«.ved by the l*te arrivals Irom
London and Dublin, their fpritg importa
tion, confuting of a variety of the lat#ft and mnil
approved 1 aw Books, whkh,3ddcd to thole alrea-
dy on hand, forms the not extensive collection eV- k
er offered for sale in this country. They thu «fore ]
beg leave to uotiw, that lrora the nature of their c
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifli { j (
editions (as they have hitherto at the very |
howeft prices. The following are among the latell ; n
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 2
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Rc»ort«
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; l'loyer's PioAers V
I Pradice ia the Ecclcfiaflical Courts ; Barton's \
Treatise on a Suit in liquity ; Tidd's Practice of ft
the ®ourt of King's Bench in Personal Aitiens, 1 t
p.-.rts complete ; Ward's Law of Nation#; Cruile v
on Uses : modern Reports, I* tola. London edi- j
tion.
H. and P. Rica sapefl t» receive by the firft ar-
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of (
Durnford and Ball's Reports, the impart of Gil- f
Ixn'sLaw of Evidence by Loft, atlda number of
new puHications.
June »6.
The History of Peniifylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCH A
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelf'.ia, where I'ubfcriptions will continue 1
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library, '
according to tbe printed propofali, until, the
work is ready for the fubferibera.
July iS. aawtf
The Partnerfttip,
UNDER the firm of FRKEM AN & Company,
is dissolved by mutual consent. All perfobs
having any demands againlt the said House are de
sired to rmider the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
' those in<iqj>ted to the House are deGred to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
• carried on,at his Store, No. 39,S»uth Front-ftrect.
Atignjl 7. eod<w _
> Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed tkeir Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
1 August 1. w^c^t
' Lanca/ler, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
' Sbippenjburgand Sunbury
STAGES.
j
. r T"'HE public are requeued to tske notice, that
X the partnerfliip which has for some lime sub-
Gtled hetwc&i Matßias Slocgh of Lancaster, and.
!l William Geer, is npr/ diffolvcd: bßt, not it M.
] Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
- December U'.l. a recital of which is Hot now deem
ed neccffary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
■more circuaitlantially informed of the merits of
• this buDnefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
■f the perusal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
f at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly jaftifiiibie in attaching him
ie felf to any other person in the profecntioii of the
>r Stage conveyance front Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place,
in Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
J, this hufinefs, v< illiatn Geer, in conjucflion with
y. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Wi'.mer, is determined
to toprofecute and carry it on, wi?h every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie to& poffibljr exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
,J. with carriages horf«, and erery appurtenance to
render the pafTage tafc and <omrnodioa.s, inform
0 f thel'a wnu wifli to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their leats at
(j George Weed's, the figli of the White Horse,
" Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancailcr, Harrifburg,
Cwlifle and SSiippcciburg. The fare as hitherto
cftablirtied.
For the further accommodation of the public,
' ie a Stage will start every Wednesday from houfe
6 e of Saitjtl f-lder, if. Harrifburg, arrive at Snn
| bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
ne from thcce and arrive at Harriiburg
every Salurd?.v,-fo tint passengers deft.'r.ed for
al- Lancaftcror Philadelphia, may proceed oa Mon
d«iY6,
et, • WILLIAM GEER.
Lantader, Jan. *7, 1797-
of ji(, U, tw, Line as Stages llart9 from the
house of William FerraC, in Lancaster, on every
I'jieWsy and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro-
Mi cee«liiig to the weltsvard; and lrcm the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednef
;ut day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnfburg, and return,
ml frem thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its fr#ur tsrcni 1
phia. »*$
Advemfemenf.
Oil the loth of November next in Alexandra As
(being couit day}, will be exposed for Me one
or more covering Jacks, and fevcral young
one? of diff. rent ages and fees ; all dsfi:ended 0
from Kov.il Gift (an imported jack :rom Spain,
upwards of 15 hands hijh ) Mt of imported c(
Jinniei from Malta, full 14 hands high.
Thl" terms of file (or if not fold, of letting [ n
them fir one or more- feafciis to cover)..*'ill
then be made known : the payments may be j a .
made easy to the put chafer, bond and fccurity
being given for she amount, with ihteieft.
At the fame time and p'»c\ sundry >,
Horftsand Marcs will be offered tor sale. Ihe cj
latter having been to the Jacks, are probably y t
\» h'n foal. n .1
fIMES ANDERSON, Manage*.' *„
ount»Vfrrn<>rt, } res
Seprember, 1797. > UW4W M:
Insurance Company of the State
cf Pennsylvania. n »
"rfHE Office will ba kept until further notice at
1 the School HouTii in Gcrmantown. The
Company dill retain the room in Chefnut, above
Idvcnthflrcet, where aperfon will attend to re- .
ccive and give answers to applications, tvery day
from 10 until i o'clock.
Sert 1 7,. ''tmwtf _
Thomas Arm at and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their euPomei's aaii (he public, they
havs removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, iheyh-ve their store open in '/
the city. At either plate their friends can be sup- ht ;
plied, and their orders carefully attended to 'f 1
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re- 1111
ceived a handsome efiVrtment of mi tides, suitable w<
to the approaching fcafon ; and expeit to add to it
by -other fall (hips. <(
Should the sickness prevail in the central part of
the city, that branch of their buCnefs will be rs-
moved so Gcrmantown.
;£?* The communication by poll is open and re
gular as ttfual. i : *
Sept. iS. thtf u '
TO*BE SOLJJf VERT CHEAP f
A Light WAGGON aim oft new, with a frame— et
and a pair of haraefs (Epglifh collars) has never tit
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling tbp and hamefs—3lo.
Enquire N0.331, Marktt-ftreet ~
August;.). ' diw 1
For sale or to be let on ground
rent, - i
A&aluable Lot of fcotir.d ; x
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal- "
nut and Filth streets, fronting the State- *
House square. TlJs lot is fifty-one feet front : g
| oil Walnut llrtet, and ohe hundred and thirteen | n '
I feet and on half on Fifth street ; tin re are at
I prefenr two finall two story brick lioufes, and a
nuipber of froall tenements thereon. X
Also. for Sale, H
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ft®res, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-llreel, between Mulberry avid Siflifras I
streets, containing in front on Water flreet Gf
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- r
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These honfes S
ave the convenience of apt'.blic alley adjoining ti
on the perth fide, and are a very desirable fima- c
tion for a merchant, flour fsiJlor.cr other»who f<
may hivsoccafioo for storage of poods. This d
property will be fold on very terms
for cafli. For further information appjv to the 11
pnnt»r.
Jlily jir. wfrwtf
■ T d"TTE SOL D, d
And poffcjftori given immediately,
ALiHtOK TOO story kriik Houfe.handfoti'.ely I
fitueted in Princeton. 'l'he*e are four rooms l
and a large On each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range- of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of J7 feet. 1 here is a pump
m the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and tWo
(tables, one of which is new, 44 feetlong, with
flails in the two (tables for 17 horses. Hieheal
thinefs and pleasantness oi its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in ard
[ near the town, resder it a defiraßle rctrceat for a
I gentleman from the city. Ihe commodioufnefs of
the house, its central portion, and the largeness of
the stables, make it, every way fuftablefcr a tavern,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
llaad. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princetoo, Ang. 25. rwza-wtt
City of Washington.
~ SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelliwg-houfe ao,ocodollars,
it & eifh 30,000, are jo.ooo
)- 1 ditto 15,000 * cast aj,oo» 40,000
d 1 ditto is,coi> 8c ra(h 15,000 30,000
I. 1 ditto xo,ooo & ciib 10,000 10,000
; 1 ditto s,dot) A cafli 5,«oo 10,000
■>- I ditto 5,000 & cafc 5,000 ««> f 6oo
h 1 cafli pr"i2tof ro,o«o
1 Jo. 5,000
)e 1 {Jat ijcrro - -
;>t ie do. 500 - - xo,Oon
cio do. too - - 10,000
-aiio d«. }o • - to,ooo
400 do. - - 10,000
1 1,000 do. 10 • 10,000
do. 10 • j.5«,000
(ic 16.739 Prises,
in Blanks.
th ,
:d Jo,ooo Tickets, at Eight Bollari, 4^0,000
it-
b- N. B. Tofavaur t'aofc who may take a quan
tity of Tickets.theprizeof 40,000 dollars will be
cd the last drawn ticket, and ihc 30,000 the last
to hot one :
m And approeednotes, fccuKiig payment in either
he monsy or pri-zes, in ten days alter drawing, will
at be rec3ived for anynujjrber not less than 30 tick
fe, ets.
ay This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimeu of
-g, the private buildings to be ertilcd in tile City of
to Wa(hin»»to!i—Two beautiful defigos arf already
ULe&eu for the entire fronts on twoof the public
ic, f^uares; from these drawings it ispropofcd to ereA
lfe two centre and r »ar corner buildings .as foosaspof
m- fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
ly, when ccunpkte. tei the fortunate adventure rs, in
rg the manner described in the fchcmc for the Hotel
or Lottery. A tret*- dcd««4ion of five per cent, will
in- be mad* to dffray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus svill be made a port of
the fund intended for the National Uni«riity,- to
'as ereclfd within the city of V afliingtou.
The real fecurit.esgivsn for the payment of th«
, ry Prizes, are held by the Prefidsnt and two Dire it
ro- drs of die Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
of more than halt the amount 0! the lattery.
cf ' SstMU&L HLOVGET.
'a- 5 Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of C'olsm
hi' ■ oi lames Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter.
the l/Gilman, Bofiom ; of John Hepkinn, Richmond ;
lei-■ of lU6kard V< siki, Cooj>er> Ferry.
Biwf
This Day PuWifhed,
Ami to be fold by W!l't.l \M YOU NO, torasr of
Second and Chei'ntit fbrcrts,
Pnct tf ft ISxc
Observations on certain Duunisnlt ,
Contained in No. V anr! VI of f .
" The Hi story of the United States for
dre year 1796," An
In which the cii \v>c,p. ct sPPCWLAnoM
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, a
Late t>KCitET auv cf the Tur asury, i# FULLt
IEWItD.
k iy RITT S.V D r JT lAts€ IF.
Th's publication presents a conclc 'Aaterncnt
cf the base meisns praAiM by tlie Jacoi>it»«of J he
United to the of rhofc I
P'irfotis who arc cowlick boililc r« difor- J
hcitvwu tVlr. Haniii on and Mcilcs.
Monroe, c.nd VcnnbV, on th^.Fab
jeA of tiie documents tlo7ci.iiw, and a ferics oi let
ters from James Reynolds antjhis \vife to Ha
milton, proving beyond.the goflibiUty of a defubt,;
that tby connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring,confpir?.cy cn the part
of the litter and hi-; afTociates ta extort nvoncy."
A discount of one third from the retail price
wiii be made in favor ot wholcfaie purchafcrs, for
cash. Orders to be addrcfied- to Mr Yowng.
AuruH 4,?.
' No. 188.
DiJlrlS of Pennsylvania, to ivii :
. HE IT RKMIiMBERED, that on the
(l. s.; Jq tweaty firth day of July, in thetwen-
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dii
tri&,hath depofittd in this oiEee the title ©f a book,
the right whereof be claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit: —
" Observations on certain documents contained t
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit- ±
M ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge at
" of fpccnlation, againll Alexander Haaiiiton, late cr
44 Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted— f e
Written by himfeif.", n<
In conformity to the a&.of the Congress of the w
Ucited States entituled, u An ail for theencour- t }-
igemcnt of learning, ty securing the copies of 0 j
maps, charts and books to thr authors am? propri
etoors of fucli copies, during 'ii« times therein men- a(
tioflcd." ci
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the BiJlriEl •/ Pennsylvania. ii
July 17. w
The Inhabitants of the Diftri£t f,
of Southwark, *
p. RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to b«
xti. kept at the ollice, the north fa it
corner of Front »rd Almond streets, where the ,
friends of those sick persons who desire to b« re
moved*) the Ci»y Hospital. arc requeftcd to make
application—Also, a Hcarfe will be kept in rcadi- J
| nels for the removal of the dead.
JOKATMAN PENROSE.
N. B.—His Poor-, who wilh to remove to th«
Tents 00 Schuylkill, may be faroHhwl with order.
Hy applying »s above. Aug. V) t
William Blackburn, •
LOTTERr jvd BROKER'S 9FFIG& t
No. 64 south Second-f reet.
TCKETB in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which {
commineed drawing the 09th May, FOR t
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the driwing advances, particularly on ac- f
count of the five firll drawn tickets, prizes of i
four thousand dollars each, on the w day of t
drawing.
Check Book* kept for examination and register
ing, iu the Canal, No. 1, City of Wolbington, N».
», and Paterfon Lott«i«a.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schoylkillbridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin -
drawing in the course of the fammer.
The buflßefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock, ;
Bills, Notes, Lands &c- &c. tranfafled with the J
utmost attention. |
tu?tf j
| Erflcine's View of the Wan
JUST PUBLISHED,
1 By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Soir.h Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]'
, A View of the Causes and Confequen
-1 ces of tbe 'present War with France.
{ By ike Honorable Thomas Erskihe.
\ May 1 j f
"state trials.
Sold b W. Yoonc, Bookfclkr, No. ja, South Se
cond-llreet;
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and
al of FraticisHopkinfon, Judge of tire Court of
Admiralty, and John NicholfQU, Comptro'ler Gen
eral—lll one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Yobno has for sale, Ji general affortmentof
s> Books. Also, Stationary, retail and.by the pack
tj egG, well aflorted, and entitled to the dravAack if
10 axportad. T"ly T —*
,0 For tiaie,
JO '
10 That well knouui place, calltd VjNaeaxirr's
JO F v R a Y,
,o Nefliaminy creek, 18 nillst from Plsila
x, ladelphia, on the New York road,
ic containing 74 acres and 94 percbts. Upon tht
in premises are a large two Rury stone house ortu
-50 pied as a tvern, and a peod one story flonekit
chtn, a large frame Mable with a gr>od threfliinp
30 floor, and some out buildingi—alfo a wdl ol
30 good water, and an excellent ice Houle. On
bo this place is a inoft elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view #f t'ne
iny toits junction wiih the Helawase, and thence
acrofsto tht Jerfcy (here, fc has the privilege
_ of one half the tollreceived from the bridge.
00 For terms apply 19 the SaWcribcr,
_ MORXTC.H LEWIS,
j,- Vav aa-
COLUMBIA iiOUbL
Boarding School for young Ladies.
ier -m GIIOOMBWIDGK with much pleaf
'»U JVi urcand refpefl, returns iier f:«cere ac
:k- Jinowledgemcnt for the liberal
(he has received during four years relulen«e i»
° f Philadelphia; and alTures her friends ami the
of public, so far from intending to decline her
dy
school, ite has made a fupei-ior arrangement for
,h 2 the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every braacb of ufcfut and pelite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
:n . 1 ' Groombridge and mafttri excelling in their
. 1 iefpe<£liveprofelT.on9.
Corner of ami .Sheets.
PC. June fimfrf
c r The situation is healtfcy ; and made
t„ more agreeable by an cxter.fivt garden and lot
of ground adjoining the honte»
a. " " Ju/i Publi/hed,
.at And to be had of Meffri. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Carv, and the other pricipal Boolcfellers in
cit/price one dollar, twmty-five cents,in boards,
rn- Ne\v Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
' hy BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, ». d.
f Jur.s sc.
Rofs .Simfcn,
C Hog (heads,
Ercatkiit Qx&cz in < Tierces, and
C Barrel*.
A small jfarrel of nice cceoa in
'• few jti»cheon<? Jamaica fpirlts. Fourth prrvcvf
Superior Ter.eriffec wine, old an \ in Madeira pipe*
Ail invoice of jewellery and hoficry to be fold by
the package
A few hampers o( bed En o lifh cheese.
July 2J. dtf.
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aflbrtment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romall*
B'ue Cloths and Checks
,B;ind?inna Handkerchiefs
Bke red and GiMi Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irlfti Linen* and Sheetings, wett
affbrtid
A box of Diipers
Kill; Umbrellas
Two boxes ef fine Spice*, cotajoing Nusniegf,
Mace and Cloves
Black Tepper of fitft quality
East India Gmger
Java Sugar
A quairtity of Madeisa Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
Aurvft i»; oawfm
Biggins' Specific
POR TUB
PREVENTION AN V D CURE OF THE
YELLOW FKVE&.
firtce this diic?.fe made such ravages in t*u»
city and New-York, the author has turned his
attention to itscaufes a»d cure.—The result of hci
enquiries has convinced him that the reason why £o
few persons recover fron; its attacks, are from its
net being well understood, and the confeqnetit
wronej method taken to cure it. He is perluaddd
that tneexcefifive bleedigns and merc\jri«l reatmerlt
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by the use of propter
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Sptclf ras n
certain remedy, if used uccordinj* to the d ; \cslion^.
To be had in bottles, at one collar each, of the
inventor Geo. Cherry street, two dnontft-*
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson and.
Co's Medicine Warehouse, London) ; by J'Le*
HantyVr). ; IV. 177, T. Pearcc, No,
*l, Soutli Third street, T. Stif, No. 55, New street,
near Vine street, and J. Sain, Ho. 36, Race flreet.
Aug. 25. tutKsi 3t
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jtfft received, by Wm. Griffiths,STo. 1 j7,South
Second-street, & frefe supply of
Genuine Bal/hm of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the. late Sir Join Hill
(\frh« khowledge as aßstanift procnvecTliim
- the appellation of the Li&naus of Britem) and it h
•onfldered in England as a nrtcure (or the above
complaints; it is also of Angular efficacy ic the
! Hooping Coggh,
It may alt** bfc had retail of W. A. Stokes,Uo.
1 Bt, South Second ftveet, and T. Snir, ss, Ntw
. Greet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. having obftfwfl the happy eft
fedl of the medicine, (ieveral cases of cares hav
f ing come within his own knowledge) and the weat ;
I demand for it has induced hiiu to order a largte
supply, a part of which he has jutt received.
AugM? J. lawjw '
30 Dollars Reward.
1 D away on Saturday last, two indented Ser*
JC\. vants,CifS»rd Dally, a mulatto buy, about 17
■» years of age, a Aim light built adtrve fellow, caa
c read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had ob a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crownod hat, fine flioes &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 24 years ct
age, five feet seven or eight inches high,a thick set
clu nfy built fxllew, particularly about the breech;
had on a i'ailor'a blue jacktt lined with fwanfltiu,
dark striped reft, ful'tiau trowfere, high crowned
hat, coarse {hoes, &c.; each of them hid ieveral
ftirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reafonabli; charges, us delivering
them at Ne. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year fnjni Lewis
Town, in the County of Suffcx, ft ate cf Ocla
_ ware, andhastaken the boy with him.
July 31. ' mtn&-fiw
k- To be SOLD or RENTED,
1 \
A LARGE 3 Stnry Brick House, on tUe
South fide of Filbert street, between
**. Eighth and Ninth, lately ocAipied as th* Su*»
°' veyor General's Office.
ll " The Uuilding i» 36 feet frost and. 35 feet desp,
' the lot lie feet with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley estendisg the whole length of
l c the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
jf t»t*m ill. The House i$ not plaflerod, atid
may ha turned either into one, or two dwelling
Hoiifes. It isfuitjible for a Urge Manyfailory,
or would make a good Tavern. liiiwiedi&se
■' s pofleffion will he given.
Apply to Wo. 111, Cliefout-Street.
I. Awp.cn. - cod^y
Mujical Injlrument Manttfaftory,
No* 167, Arch-Street.
jt- TTARPER.harplkhord,grand, porteble grsiid,
rif , JljL fid'-board, pier table and square piai.o ior/c
of matkrfrom J.jonak>n, returns thanks to his frieri>
n and the pubiic, for then liberal
| e . andhepes that tyhinfficluity and atfentim t»ev
etf branch of his fchfiticis, totrcrit a cortietniKc
J of thcix favors, l'iano fortes made on th» newest
and most approved plans, v7ith p--d;J«, patetik,
o c fwcll, aud French hai p flop, which he fbttci«
himfelf will ue fomid oh trial byunprejudice-i
judges, to he equal if cot fuperiorto any irrport
ed, and twenty per cei* cheaper. Any inttru
; aunt pvu ch?Jed cf him, U not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Miific.d lrrflruir.mts maA-,
iSI used, (tnd repairea rcith'the greatefl ae;rut£cy„
as- dTpatch, and cu the ltwlt rcalor.able term», I.l\
ac- retvdy money oaly.
Mt Secondh.ndl'iatio Fortet taken in exchange. ,
!in May i" . ! •
ier Forty Dollars Reward.
for T~) AN away from the fuWCaiber nu the frc
icr ond.diy of tjtis inft. July, a Mulatt.o .-'(an,
lite nsmed VVilt'liowzer, about forty years of age,
In. flvt •feet seven or etgfct inAes high, ratlier
leir chHnkv made ; had en when lis went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowl'er J
and jai ket. It is probable he will hi*
: cloathes; as he took a number with him. Tiie
atle f #l ,| feilow formerly brlonjrcd to Mr. Charles
lot Blake of'this place; and it is expeite:! Kchas
made Uwards J.onej's Neck, in the DelawarS
State.—Any perlin apprehending the ft id tcl-
Icw, and fecucing him so that I cangct him a
rain, receive the above reward if taken
11,11 out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
rds ' the county, and all rcafonsblecharges if trp't
"E home.
JESSE REED,
Oneen Ami's Cauntjf, Maryland.