of ttjc WltlltZQ §^t&itß 9 and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser-.
Number 1634.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRT GOOD S.
f Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. s6,
MonJarJ lout ' l Front-street,
) Afternoatn—Footman & Co. No.
f South' ?ront-ftneet.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
*r„,rj 0 „j Au(slion, No. 73 fcuAi Front-street.
' i Afternoon —Williatn Sbaanon, Np.
, (_ IS.I HigH-ftreet. J,
**»* f 's,.
jr.-1 V Forenoon—William Shaniiou.
1 ' u 5 Afitrnoon—Jfl|hn ConneHy.
Saturday AffernoQn—Peter Beni'ori.
To be fold at the Merchant's Cof
fee-?loufe,
ON the tenth day of December next, at 7 o'
clock in the evening, one certain bond or j
, obligation ciated July 16, 1795-. tigned by John ,
Love of Alexandria for himfelf, Jofiah Watson j
ar.il Samuel Love f0r.£61.10 Virginia currency,
jiavjble on the 31ft of October laftp*ft,t.< Stocitr j
ley Doiiellon or his assigns—which B id the j
faidDoneifon assigned to James Grant, under |
whole power of attorney this sale will be made.
Far further particulars appl) to the fubferibers.
FOOTMAN and Co. Auctioneers.
Nov. 18. dtrothd.
TO BE SOLD, ~
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country,
That three story Brick- House,
No. 157, north Third Urcet. Apply at the of
fice of this Gazette. Nov. 19- w&s.tw
A Cotnpting House to let.
AMoftxcroveniciit Comptiug H9uf« it aow for
hire on rt.ofs'% wharf, dirccliy over the arch.
terms, apply to
/ Samuel Breeij jun,
No. 89, fou:h l'hird street.
Where may be bad,
A few iialcs of Ravens Duck, and about 100
pieces of ftoutCanvafs ; a fmali quantity of Mace,
and ibme high proof Brandy ; Sherry Wine, Cho
cola c in boxes, Window Glass ef various sizes
and dimensions. Dec. i.—-eo6t
Tmported
IN the Ibip Aurora, from Hamburgh, and for
sale by the Subscriber.
Bed tiekf, 8-4, 9-4, and 10-4.
A quantity of Tapes, No. 13 and 15.
Jtnd on Hand,
German black Ribbon, No. 3 and 4.
George Pennock.
nrvemb»r ti ;awiw
Landing,
From on board the ship Edward, at Walnut
llree't Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior iJtoalSty, For Sale by the fu'ifcriber.
Robert Andrews.
novtmbel%j. eotf
Wanted, ly a Gentleman in Virginia,
A diicreet, sensible Matron,
ajed afcont 45 «r 50 yesrs, qualified to teach
younq boys v/ruing, Arithrcetit, History and
Geography—Also, to niftin the capacity of House
Keeper. For futthir inforniation spply.to the
I'rinter. , nov. i#—diw
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter m the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114. cornjr
of iheth and RaceSfects. i'he situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
tontagion. OA. it—-dtf
COLUMBIA HOUSL
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GKOOMBKIDGE with much pleaf
urcand rcfpeiH, rtturns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she fias received during son/ years refidenee iu
Philadelphia ; and assures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline'her
school, Ihe has marie a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
feholart. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
rtfpeitive profeffions.
Corner of Sprnce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797-
Thefituattcn is perfeiflly healtiy ; and made
more agreeablebv an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houie.
This Day Pnblilhed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, eorner ef
\ Second and Chefnut streets,
Price $-&tbs of a Bv\lar^
Observations on certain Documents
-Contained im Ni>. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charg® o» speculation neainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Sucaer arv of the Tr basurv, i» BULLY
REFUTED.
tr rlr rs n Br himself.
Tlvs publication presents a concise statement
ps the bafc means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charaders of those
psrfons who are considered as hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. U also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Mcnroe, Muhlenburgh ondVenable, on the fub
jesSk of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds andhis wife to Mr.Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
*hat the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of. a daring eonfpirasy on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
0" A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ol wholefaie purchafefs, for
. cash. Orders ta be auirelfed to Mr Youn*.
Augull 25. .
Erfkme's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED.,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Do.
No. 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents}'
A View of the Caujes arid Cofyequen
ces of the present War with Francs.
By the Honorable Thomas ErskiNe.
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 4, 1797.
For Londonderry,
. „ The American Ship
BOSTON PACKET,
Coppertmwait, Malter,
JJO'.V lying at MifHin's \VTiarf,
near Vine-flreet—Has elegant accommodations for
pjffcngeri—will fill, weafhfr permitting, on or
about the icfhinll. -haviej all her cargo engaged
ready to go. on board. ForjaCTage only, apply to
•Jit cay run.
V./ IWS Smith & Ridgway,
No 4f North Watsr fttreet.or to
Isaac Harvey, Jim.
No. 5, South Water ft ret t.
December I f lot
tor Amsterdam,
aJ®|L EDWARD,
James Wickham, Maflcr,
EXPECTfiD to fail in a few days, having two
I thirdsof her cargo already engaged,anduear.
ly on board. For Freight or Paflage, apply to
the Mallet or. board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to
John Donnaldfon,
» No. ax, Walimt-ftrecc.
November 18. v dßt
ifor Amsterdam,
The Ship
FARMER,
John M'Coxlom, Matter;
WILL fail, in a few days, the
sV£>oCJ£S&^sSS greater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty terl'< ci Coffee, or paf
fagr, apply to the matter on board, at Walnut-
Creet wharf, or to , •
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who if Landing, out of the l'atd Ship, from Boer
deaijx, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac,
f » Sauterne, > Wises in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
novemher 24. 5
For Liverpool,
l—"to The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of her
cargo being ready to go on
board, is eipeAcd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Paflage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN & Co.
»a. §
FOR LONDON,
THE SUIP
ILI A M PENN,
Jam ■ a Josiah, Master.
THE (htp is now taking on board her cargo, and
will fail in all next week. For freight or paflage
apply t: the captain or to V
fep ?.<f Robert Wain. . .
1»r H ■
FOR LONDONDERRY,
THE BRIGANTINE
■ suk er,
William Written, Master.
vsj*paw3si- Aftronggood veflel, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all soovcnie»t speed, a
great Jpart of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis'-wharf, for freight Or paf
faoe, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Lahdnibergtr s ivbarf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vf.ssel of about three hundred tons.
T)()<V ' 8 . §
For bavannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
- Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with excellent
aC conimodationß for passengers
Sails on the loth of December. Fur Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS fa" SIMSON.
Who have in diffofr of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER. SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
nvvember 18. '*
For Hamburgh.
The Brig MARY,
Peter Yokx, miller,
Lying at Ruflei's wharf, near Pine
I ilre< t, is now ready to take in a
? Cargo, and will fail in tsn days.
Far Freight, or Paflage, apply to .
GURNEY 3c SMITH.
Nov ember 16.
i Wanted to Charter,
To one port in Hifpaniola and back
fall: failing Vessel, of the bur
then of 6or 700. barrel.-. For terms, apply to
Benjamin Morgan, No. no, South Front street,
orto ROBER T ANDREIVS,
mv. 10. S No. 86, South Wharves.
For tharter,
THE SHIP
Jbbti Bulkley,
Samuel Volans, MaJler.
■ X . T I HIS vessel is built of live oak
V" : 'wj ;|_ and cedar, of about 30c o
barrels burthen, and ready to receive 011 board a
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
oa. 51. L.
For Sale or Charter,
The fa ft failing brig
}mwT wo Brothers,
Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent tingle dcckM vessel, burthen about
1600 barrels—net twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the master
on board, or to
Joseph Anthony ss* Co.
n v. diw.
By John Fenno, N°' 119 Chefnut Street.
THE SHIP
COMMERCE,
CjptaSftßicvaro Waistcoat, i
JrewSft'Ti- Frr.?i' 1 \erpnoli now discharging '
at Morri-/» whiifij near the Drawbridge, where
<>»rner« »( jt»oho's will ploafr fpecdily to '
ff-ml tlitir pe.-mits. Siij v.-ifel w3l aftsr <
tatc'iii i • .very low U; I Ap
ply to t!ie captain, or ' 1
Ifa'ac rSarvey, Jun.
No. £, Sooth Water Su<et.
A few tons of ftonfe, i>r land ballast' wanted.— i
Apply as above. ' I
_novtm6er 27 §iOt. '
Philip Nicklin £? Co. I
HAFE FOR SALE, ■
their Stores on Walnut street Wharf, '
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown J
25 hhds Jamaica do. t
30CO pieces of broad Nankeens i
Imperial Tea, ip ijuartersaad eighths of chells 2
Quickulyer in tubs _ l
Madeira Wine in pipes and hoglhcajls e
Teiicriffe Wine in pipes ' 1
Old ted Port Wine inhogfheads '
Sail Canvass, aflbrted, No. I to 8 1
8 enfes of ifanchefter Goods,conGftinjr of Ditnities, 1
Mu^inet*.Ginghams,TbickfcttSjCotduroys, &c. 1
200 crate? V.'are, ailorted !
Nails, afl'orted
Bla k quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in caiks j
A quantity of writing S'ates, slate Ink Stands, Sic.
ico quarter cilk= '.". Un Powder
7tn l/a*t 'tfofir SALE or CHARTER,
Hamburg packet,
B<»nhtß 320 tons, coppered re. j
the,bends, and completely fitfed. t
Thejhip MOLLT, burthen 340 tuns, a
good vtrlii i, anil completely fit<ed.
The brig AMAZON, borthen 1300 bar- .
rcls, mf.y be rea;'.y ♦or. sea in * few d..;-. ,
I'i.e whole of tk:
Waltut ftjreit \Vh»rt. <> mm. IC. ]
Rundle & Leech,
Have Jull received, and have tor Sale, at no. 9, f
Walnut Greet, (
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT i
Do. bell house COALS
Queens' WARE in cases, aflbrted :
Beurdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
rfTJI-, TBtY HAVE ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER,
■'SMSlev'V THE ship J
illls PEGGY, :
Burthen 225 tons, in excellent condition, and ,
may be sent to sea with little expenceor delay.
LIKEWISE, !
jffjjfoK WILLIAM,
Burthen 101 tons,
novemLer 16. $
For Sale or Charter,
—3t-i Tht Show
§J%. GOOD HOPE,
4 Will carry ab»i»t i»oo barrels,and
ifi.ttr.-Tar apply w „
Prngcrs & Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for Cde—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rum, Madeira, Lilbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By fti£p Edward, from Madeira, and Bctfey and
Peggy, frwoi Oncrto, in Pipe? and Hogsheads,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFfeRS FOR SALE,
The Sh ip
A M 1 T r>
Four thou fan d barrels burrhen,
eiccllert order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
' LIKEWISE,
The Schooner Industry.,
Burthen 800 barrel*, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
' Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
just landed from the above vefle!s at South street
wharf. eoiai. N° v - »•
~ James is? Richard Smith,
TAKK the liber*y of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed thdr
store to No. 54, Sovtb ?r*»t jtreet y next d«or to Ed
ward Fox's Auilion Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a and general aflbrtment bf
European Eif Eajl India Goods,
Many of which .are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penß, &c. &c.
oa. 17. si
Samuel Pleafants y Sons,
A r o. 74, South Second-Jtreel,
HAVK received a supply of Seaionabie GOODS,
which they afe now opening for sale, on
reasonable term*. Q& 27 —-4' v
Toss & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of Bengal COT TON
Bengal SUGAR, ' a hag* ar 'd boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal J
300 caflcs RICE, 'e'nd
A parcel of fiiip building RED CEDAR.
°a. 27.
Landing this day,
From on board the fchoonei' Twb Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Mailer,
80 hhds. and 1 T amaica RUM,
12 pipes ) J 1
FOR SALB BY
George Latimer tS 5 Son.
uonemher 9. §
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for ivhicha generous
rent wSI be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of tha Printer.
Ovft. v i 7. eotf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propofmg to costraft hia bufi
-1 ness, offers in-.s Eltiie lor sale, on moderate
trrrns. Oh it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces, t
a complete JJorerng Machine, and a very good grift
Miii, with ffro pair of Hemes; also a good Forgr, aU
in perFcft repair, as are all the Wjjter Works conned
rd with thefc various The Air Furnace# '
'were iaieJy buili tor the pu-pofe of cattipg Cannon
thts Stzio.—There are out two ttoufend acres t
ot Land, one haH of which iauuder wood, the other *
fine arable I.aad, producing Che best Hay and t
Palter. Tj»e Cannon lately maaafadured there, -
fuiiy proves the excellency of the tiiera!,-which is
fupeiior to any in this cdiinVry, and probably,equal V
to any irt the world ; for grt ft.xt>vnioc c
lately nude, althougti fame of the 24 were bored "
into 32 pqundcrs have tailed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufadturc, and a place of aims lying in the ftatc
of Cortrie&>cut, and orfly 30 miles front fiyeral land- f
ings on the Hudson's liver, and having every advan
tage that ca* result fi;t>m a plenty of water iffuiwg
from a large natural" very near the
and Which may tie converted into a variety oi a:hcr
uliefal purposes. 'I he pure ha fer. can beaccom'nodii
td wiih all the stock and ui.rnfila, and have pollcflion
on ov before the firft of June next, art"! preparation
may be made in the meantime for going i to Bia if im
mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. See. For
terrm, apply to Mr joseph Anthmy, in Pniladel
phia; David Brooks, E'q. one of the Representatives
in Csngrcfs for this State ; Mr, Watt 1 man, on
tlMipremiles, or to thep io New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. Aav»tf
English Grammar,
The second edition, with improvements
AVJAt' IEO to the different cl.ilTei of learner,; >,
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
ferv'anous for afClting the more advanced lludents
to write with perfpicu'ty and accuracy,
15y LINDLEY MURRAY.
" Thia is a publication of much merit, and fully .
answers the profelliouit in the Title, '*hc aj,(xii
di' t ..nrtßiii- -tsne-ef .the txft rule* tur writm K e
legtptiy, -ad with propriety, that nirecotuik ;o '
have seen."
Monthly Review, July 1796.
" Thil Grammar is, on many accounts entitled j
to commendatory notice, its materials have been
carefully and judiciously felefted ; its arjangement
is diftindl and well adapted to the purpose of in
ftruAion and its exprcfiioß is simple, perspicuous
and accurate, &c<"
See tbt charaßer at large in the Analytical {
Re-view, July 1796. _ «
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately publilhed by j
Lindley Murray, confiding of exemplificatien of
the parts of speech, instances of falfe orthography,
violations of the rules of syntax, defefls in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules ntfpeding
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit
of private learners, as well as for the use of schools.
"W» have been much pleased with the petufal .
of these Exercises. They eceupy with distinguish
ed excellence a most important place in the fcicncc j
of the English language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
attaining corre&ncfs and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797-
The above Books are for sale at Joseth & James
CutitsuANKs book It ore, No. 87, Market street.
December I. 3tawiw.
—fTuTTC-E. p
""["■HE partnerlhip between John Is stone a?.d
J. James BaconV under the firm of lultoneand
Bacon, is this day diflolved by mutual confcnt.—
All perfops who (land indebted to la d firm are
requested to make immediate payment of their
refpefuve- accounts, to John Skyrin, on Laniien
hurgcr's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all persons havinß any demands a
gainlt the said firm, are defitcd to bring in their
accounts immediately tohtm for settlement.
John Injlcne,
James Bacon.
November 20. < eodtf
BEEF.
Prime 3eef, fit for India voyages, for sale by
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, High-ftrrct.
Also, about fifteen hundred weight of Bees-
Wax. dtf Nov. is, 1797.
Library Company of Philaaelphia.
THE Members of the Library Company or
Philadelphia are hereby informed, that the Libra
ry will be open on Monday next, the 4th of De
cember, for the reception and delivery of books.
Those who negleil to return the books, which
had been takon out previous to the firft of Septem
ber lad, in the couife of the ensuing week, will
be fined as thcrulrs direct.
The Loganian Library
Will also be opened at thu sam» 'ime, for the like
purposes.
N. B. A few copies of the catalogues of the
books belonging to these institutions may be had
at the Library.
Z. POULSON, JUN. Librarivn.
Library, november 30. '
r l he City Dancing Aflembly,
Will commence at O'Eller's Hotel, on
Thnrfday December 7th.
Thomas M. Willing Stephen Kingston
Jimet Gihfon William Head ]
Henry Wikoff Robert E. Griffith.
Mamgers.
nvv- 19th.
Ail Perlbns
Having any deminds aga ; nft the Eftete of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requtfted to
bring in their accounts pioperly ihefted, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
aud those who are indebted to said eflate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
3aRAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
Nov. 29 1797-
. NOVv 'LANDING,
From on board the Ihip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wine in' do.
For Sale, apply to
'Jjbn Whitefide s S3 5 Co.
No. 138, arket-llreet.
r Also, on hand,
8 Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes
! fine old Antigua Rum
A few caj'es of Claret, ,of a superior quality,
novembt-r 29. §
DANCING.
Mr. BI'RNE,
OF the New Theatre, rtfurns thanks
to the Ladi:s and GcOtltwcn th if honored him latl
Icalon—His Academy will ojji-n arf December, »5
O'Ellers's, I'ud'di) and .Saturday mornings fron;
fleveu to two for young Ladies, attended by Mn.
13yRNt ; on the it me days m the afterncofl frm*
three rill fix for young Gentlemen ; .Mid in the
eveaings of Thurfdaja alu j . fix.ni
till nine for G.ntlemcn. Please to anoijr at the
Academy, at the hours of tuition.
Mr. llt«Nt's linl uUliiroo TneXday,iatb
December, and toutinua t>ru;e a iori'iigh: thr«wg'i •
out the fejl'on. December i—-fcSLni;
BUSH-HILL, m
Decipher i, 1797'.
THE par'nrrlhip b/tween ls, is (hit day dii
folved k-y mutual coafcfii,
~ William Bates,
3< Wiiltam Darley.
F<>k s -La, '•
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Co.
No. 8, C^-luut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BJiNGAL GOODS,
AxAojagjft which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodios
Baltas 8*(lQa«
Umznahs T*nd* Coffae*
Gu*2k» Emeriics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoori Roxnail Handkerchief®
Amortgli them are a great proportion of tht
nianufa&ures of Patca.
Decembr r i. ..
7 0 be Sold,
A Bill on Richmond,
[Payable at fight. Inquire at this office.
Dec, I. 21
The Suhfcriber intends to make
application for the vencwa? of a Certificate of a £h*r«
in the Bank of the United States, Handing in the name
of A. B. No. 5004, dated July |t, 1797, the fame
having been loit. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. I. .
To be fold, 1
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain,
ing 6 acres and 43 perches, with a neat two
fiery brick Heufe and Kitchen thereon, an appli
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irilh trad lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile front
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taHe and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December I. dtf
Mrs. GRATTAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Sen.
tlemen of the City, that (he prftpoles having
Four CONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Six Dollars each Subscriber, for one Ticket of
admittance during thefeafon.
No Subscribers Tickets transferable.
Two Dollars a single Ticket. «
The Concert to begin r.t half pad fix, and the
Band to attend for the Ball at eighfc— the expence
of which Mrs Giattan engages to discharge.
The Concerts will begin as soon as the Band ar j
rives from New York.
Snbfcriptlons received, and Tickets deliv
ered at No. 191, Maiket street.
novemhsr 19. §tw
Chocolare and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufailural,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; Celled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale Cyder ; Taunton ai.d Burton Ale ;
London Por:er ; red, Port and Lilbon Wine,
i'oitalde for exportation or home consumption.
The highest pi ice given for Mustard-Seed.
A!/o forfale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baize«, a variety of colors j a bale of
Fultians, Shawls, &c, for falebv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-ftrcat,
ncv. 17. m &th.t.ij.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy
Tenenjje IVine
Molajl-s
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one bog/head of faint
brvjhes. • >
N. Cs" y. Franer.
No. 95, Sonth Front Street.
Nov. ?■ dim■
j Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases. >
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. ofiavo,
By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 52, Bec„nd street, the corner of Cliefnut ilreet,
(Price, in baarJt ,8711 Cents)
' Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Pager,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles established in th» element!
' of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M.'D.
With an attempt to correfl some important er>
rors of that work, and cases in illuftratioa, chief
ly felefled from the records of their prailice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William 2'atss isf Chas. Mkclbjin.
To which is fubj«ined, a Treatise on the a&ioa
e of Mercury upon living bndies, and its applica
p tibri for the cure of diseases of indireil debility
r Andadiflertaiioii on the sources of Epidfraicand ,•
S Peftilentialdifeafes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
3 a numerous indui\iori of faifts, that they ne
ver aril'e from conti jion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, ot certain viciflitutles of
th« armofpbere, by - Charles Maclean, of
Cilcutta.
's nov. ti.
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
weil watered, in a hethhy situation, about
fevew miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, mode*
rate expeafe, and poffeflion had in a few weeks.
Part ef the purcUafe-rooncy being paid, a reafot.
able credit will be allowed fqr the remainder,
y* Enquire of the Printer.
rovem'cer j Biwftf
\ Vc/.VMS XIITo the Inhabitants of the United
States.
_ j
OINCE ths knowledge of medicine, none has cv-
O ( 1* proved so afteniftiitigly efficacious, so ur i
v. vtaiiy clteemed, or to which the affli&ed with
Rlicuvnatifms, Gout, Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
PaW?* Sprain*, Bruits and Chilblains, may look
for reUef with fA much, confidence, as
Whitehead*s essence of Mujlard.
This extraordinary Medicine very soon affords
the wiihed for relief, " even "to the aged in cal'es
the most. de!j>erate " For theft fubfUntial reasons
it is patronrted by all ranks of people in England.
From the gie.it rtunjber of commuuicationjcon
fln.itty received by Mr. Johnston, he is-undpr the
receifny (in laying them before the world) of a
bridgiftjg. their contents; the following Tenters (al
though curtailed) »re fa very importsnt, an 4 the
Cjnaturcsfe very refpC&able, that he conceives he
fliould be doing i ß juQic>; to Whiithnd's EJj'encc »f
Hit'vferi, were lie to vwwho|d. them from public in
fpeftioa. ■ _
J.etter from Mrs. Mills, HoufeVeeper to the Duke
of Cumberland. '
Sir, Nov. j, 1795. I
A .-noft inveterate Rhcuaiatifm and L«mbago«
(otccaGoncd by laying in a damp bed, when at
BruflVK iathe Cult of Her Royal Highness the
thitchefi of Cumberland) b»» affliiUd me eighteen
years. I have fnip!eyed the Ifirft medical gentle
men in London, and (although I Kerived no beoe
■ fit) am bopid to acknowledge my graritude to se
veral of the nobility, who knew my deplorable li
tuation, and humanely sent me their physicians ; I
have also tried no# aclvertifcd medicine.;.' At
length, iir, after eighteen years excruciating
torture, \ few bottles of your Whitehead's EJjhce
of Mujlard, have, I thank God, rcftored me to the
ineftimablc blessings »r health and permanent cafi*
Yours, msch oblige!,
No. !J4 ( Jeriiiyr.-ftreet,St. James's. S. MILLS.
Copy of a letter from G. Count«fs,efq. Captain of
His MiWty's Ship the Dedalus.
Sirj Spithead, Nov. 8,1795.
As I erpeiS to fail in i few days, I begyou will
immediately' forward me a dszeu of Whitehead's
Jsjfencetf Mu/iarJ. It gives me confldcrable fitif.
faflion to i'uorro you, I have my fell experienced
its good effects, and have in fevcral infiances of
Rhcumatifms, Sprains, and Bruises, witnessed i s
affomfhing efficacy. I think you would consult
your own interest by appointing it to be fold at
Poufraouth, and all other feaporrs ; for yoi} may
fell allured, whenthh invaluable fpeeific becomes
generally known, not an Officer in His Majtfty'l j
Navy will jo to sea without it.
•" Yours, &c.
G. COUNTESS.
Sir, Dec.''sto, 179 J.
A severe flreke of the Palsy, fix months ago, de
prived mc of my fpcech, andthe use of one fide. 1
In this desperate situation, Whitehead's Essence. of
1 Mnjiurdwas very strongly recommended, and, I
thank God isfuccefsfuliy applied. By perfevcring
in its life a Wort time, I was completely restored,
and continue to enjoy the full and perfect use of
my faculties, although near eighty years of age.
Yours, W. FRANCIS,
N». 14, Ar .bclla-rew, Pimlico.
■%* Mr. Francis has Held a public fittWion at
the Guildhall in the city of Westminster, many
years, and is well known to the generality of the
refpefiable inhabitants.
Letter from,A. McCan Efq.Capt. of the 60th rc
jrimenc,<ia&ed Fort George, Guernsey,
Sir, fan. 4,1797
Upwar 's of five years pad I have been affliited
with a moS violent Rheumatic A ffeft ion in my
head, which has bafHeu the (kill of the mod emi
nent Phyfitians 5 some months since 1 was induced
to try your Whitehead's EJJence of Mujlard I am
now happy to inform you, it has done me essential
fervire.and I think it neeelfary to .iiclare, no other
medicine ever ga,ve me the lmalUftdegres of relief,
lam with regard,youts,&c. See.
Capt. 6otk fcegt. , . A. McCAN,
August, 17 95:
• Mr. Middle ton, of Chcfterfield-ftreet, St. Ma
ry le-bonc wasfo severely affli&ed with the Rheu
matic Gout, an to be unable to move in my bed for
Gx months 1 . his liyib* were enormouflyfwelled.a-id
at length from excessive pam became quite black.
In this distressing situation he was induced to try
your Whitehead's Essence of Mufard; the effect far
exceeded the molt sanguine expe&ation, his paia
was immediately alleviated, and hi- limbs returned
to their natural colour ; his appetite restored, and
in a very short time he was enabled to leave his bed
'and walk with crutches; and by a few weeks per
feveraace, was completely restored to the foil en
joyment of perfeiHiealtK
*,* Mr. Middlcton, with hit son. repeatedly
called as he got better, on Mr. Johnflon, and de- <
clared tfnac his life was utterly despaired of.
RefpeSed Sir, J Nov. 6. 179.?.
Palling by a croud, in the fifth month of her
pregnancy, my wile received a dreadful blow on •
her fids,, which apparently destroyed the life of the 1
infant ; after the mod lkilful advice, and trying
various remedies for two months, (he still found ,
the fymatoms increafeto an alarming degree j spit
ting of blood—lhortnefs ofbreath—and other dif
agreeablc appeared from so violent a
fcru.'fe. afforded only the fatal appearance ol her |
1 speedy diifolution. —■ —A friend to whom I related
her fad cafe, having experienced great benefit from J
your Whitehead's Essence of Mejiarl, kitfflly prefent
«d me With a bdttle ;to my unspeakable fatisfac- '
tion, it fpedily relieved her from pain ; a
bottle has removed every difsgreeablc symptom,
and with the most heartfelt gratitude I inform you,
we have the happy profpeift of
a living mother to our numerous family.
° Yours, Sec. T. HURLOCK.. I
Whitm<4re"s-row, Haxton. I
It .is prepared (only) and fold, in Pills and in a (
fluid llate, at one dollar each box or bottle, by j
R. Johnston, Apothecary, no 20, Greek street,
Soho, Londen ;,ahd is also fold by his appoint- r
mcnt, wholesale and retail, by G. SHAW, ts" Co. r
no. 129, Chefnut-ftreet, Philadelphia, who have c
just received a large quantity, per the William <
Penn, and to whom, persons desirous of vending, f
are defiied to apply.. t
CHILBLAINS. J
Whiteheads Essence of Mujlard generally cures
Chilklaift» aud. common RheumatiJnjs. on the fir ft
or second applicati#n, and often removes the most n
violent Sprains and Bruil'es, in two or three days, f
CautionA Certificate is pasted on each bottle f (
and box, and to prtvef t the dypgsr of counterfeits, .
another certificate.is afl'o lig.iesbyG. Shaw & Co. 11
of Philadelphia. ' 0
Shaw & Co. h-'.ve atft. frtrr«rt?d by-th« William >1
Penn, a qiurifixy cf Goyikuid'? potion for the face {,
and f- in—3.iUv« of Hsney lor coughs, asthmas
andconfumptions —Church s L-oug-h Drops, and a
vii wty of ether Patent Medicines. ■ 11
november
~A person well acquainted with _ .
thetheoryandproiliceafbook-keejiin^whoh.sUeen
i U andothcrs, 0
would be glad to be employed, either as an agent cl
or factor;'or in poP.iiboohs : Hating unfettlcd it
accounts ;vr in oxecu'.ing any other kind of writ- a
ing, in French cr Engl in- • at
A note tddrtlTed to J. A. and <«> at this offics, .
will be r.unilually attended to.
noyember 30. 3iwtf
d %i)t Odette* ■
P H'lL AD E L PHI A",
MONDAY EVENING, DECEMSER 4.
:h ; r _
0, War Office, tyh, I 7Q7.
'k IR,
After havingbein engaged for a period of
twelve years, in the Department of
■ 9 War, lam at length couftrained on account
e ' of my infirm state of heallji, to cotnmuni
cate to you my intention of retiring from
•!. that employment. I f|iall requefl the favour
ie of being indulged with a few days, to adjust
»- my public and private concerns 5 after which
I shall have the honour to annouce to you
c my official resignation.
«f With great refpeft and esteem,
B- I :un Sir,
Your mrtft obedient servant,
( Signed) JOHN STAGG, Junr.
;e Chief Clerk.
. The Honorable *
0". the Secretary of Wifc
it
War Office, November iuh, 17Q7,
• n _ SIR,
.. On the 9th inft. I informed; you of my
.. intention, after 1 having fettWd my public ac
-- counts, of retiring from my present employ.
1 meiit. Thisbeing accompliflied, I now beg
leave to resign the appointment of Chief
cc Clerk in the War-Officeof the United States:
>( and have only to regret, that it has not
« been in my power, finee you have been at.
the hea<J of the department, by reason of
J ' iicknefs, to have dilcharged the various du
ties of my flation, with that punftuality
and attention, which I trufl have been ex
r. hibittd by me on former occasions. ' Be
j 1 pleased to accept my thanks for your friend
' Ihip andpolitenefs, and believe mc to be,
d sir ». . •
if With great esteem and refpeft,
s Your most obedient servant, \
' (Signed) JOHN STAGG, Junr.
* The honourable Jambs M'Henry, Esq.
Secretary of War.
Wur Office 15th November, 1797.
SIR, y
I have reeeived this morning your letter
of this date, resigning your appointment of
Chief Clerk in the War Office. My early
acquaintance with you ; my confidence in
f your,honour and integrity, and the jntimate
knowledge of the business of the office,
which you had acquired by long •xperience,
f .make me regret that any circumstance what
ever ffiould deprive the public of your fer
> vices. Be pleased to accept of this fineere
testimony of your worth, and my belt wish
es for your welfare.
I am Sir,
Your most obedient servant,
(Signed) JAMES M'HENRY.
Major John Stapg, Junr.
Department of War,
Accountant's office, Nov. 14, 1797.
I certify that John Staggjun. Esq. Prin
cipal Clerk in the war office, has produced
full and fatisfa&ory vouchers for all monies
(landing to his debit on the books of this
office, and his account will accordingly be
ckfed.
(Signed) Wm. SIMMONS,
Acct. Dept. War.
NEW YORK, Nov. 30.
The revolntionifts in the Ligurian (Ge
rroeft) republic, have taken a wiser method
to make republicans, than the use of guil
lotines. They have appointed forty missi
onaries to travel over their territory, to
preach and explain the principles of demo
cracy.
The Earl of St. Vincents has appointed
William Hale Gage, Esq. to the command
of the Terpfiehore in the place of Capt.
Bowen, killed at Teneriffe.
A Dublin paper states that 2446 looms
are now idle in the cotton, {ilk, fluff, broad
cloth and ribbon manufactures ; leaving
11,458 industrious hands unemployed, and
their families without bread.
The purchafersofnationalconfifcated pro- <
perty in France fuffer so much from the old ;
proprietors ortheir frirnds, that in th* sou- 1
thern departments, Mont Blanc and Ifere
and Var, 60,000 of them had entered into <
associations for their mutual protedion. I
In a debate in the Council of Five Hun
dred August 28, a motion was made for the 1
payment of officers on half pay ; but it was '
proposed that no officer should receive his 1
money in the Commune where the legifla- i
tive body fat. General Jourdan remon- (
ftrated against this article as unjust. A- I
mong other reasons suggested by him for '
not compelling old officers to retire into the
departments, we. notice the following— 1
" that to wear regimentals in the depart- t
mcnts was fufficient to endanger their fafe- c
ty." This declaration excited murmurs, t
and was, by one officer, denied. Butothers \
supported the opinion as corrcft. I
We note this opinion of a cool discrete {
man, who cannot be fufpe&ed of inifrepre
fentation as a stronger proof of the popular r
sentiment in France with regard to the exist
ing Government, than a hundred harangues r
of Jacobins in office. If the regimentals of I
Vep'iblican officers are so disagreeable a fight
in the departments, the inference is certain, i;
that the cause and the form of government n
in which they have been worn, are odious t:
and unpopular. ti
Fasts of all kinds a re ir.ceffantly occur
ring to convince the world that a maj'ority
of the people in France vvifh for a monar
chy—not the old regimen of defpotifrn, ; ti
feudal services and church monopolies ; but ti
a monarchy governed by a fixed constitution tl
and laws ena£tecj by a National Reprefenta- j ei
ticn. The most enlightened men in that tc
country seem to think the manners and ha- fii
bits of the people, the-populoufnexs of the
country, and the vices of its inhabitants re
quire such a form of government.
The armies however are of a different o
pmion. They ■Tubfiil on their enemies—
, they have not felt the evils and insecurity of
rights, the anarchy, distress and inveterate
pamons which torment the citizens at hotqe
-- i hey are firm and unanimous in support
of a republican form of government, and
ot while these armies exist, with such fcoti
nt ments, the people mufl patiently yield to
11- their destiny.
m . __ .
lr PROVIDENCE, (R. I.) novernber *,
ft Died, early this morning, aged about 65 years,
:h lamented, Henry Ward, Esq. fecretiry of
this it ate, which office he hacl held many ycai*, and
duties of it with greit ability, and
the integrity. lie was au honest m.an,
and *ln lofl.ftiblc* patriot.
,t ,u
PETER SBURGH. Nov. 24.
Extrad oj a letter from cap/. Howard, of the
<. flip Montezuma f-Lound from Liverpool to
James river, dated Sf. Thomas's, Oil.
1 5 . 1797.'
" Ori the 2d of September lift I was
captured by a French brig, called L'
Aigle, capt. Marin from St. D'Uningo, who
y took out the people with both mattes-, and
c . ordered the ship for Porto Rico.; and-af
f - ter experiencing every misfortune from the
g unfkilfulnefs of the French and their want
t { of humanity, we arrived off the island of
5 * Porto Rico the last day of September.
H Just as we were entering the harbour of Por
it. to Rico, we were re-captured by the Bri
>f t ' l^l frigate L'Atniable, commanded by
1- William Granville Lobb, who took ua in
y tbwr, and carried us to Tortola. At Tor
• tola F was informed that if I would pay one
e eighth of the cargo I should be*at liberty'to
|. j proceed on the voyage ; but rot having any
; inftrudtians at Liverpool, I tolcl them It was
! out °f my power to fay any thing about
j the cargo—they then concluded to take out
t the cargo and fell it, for the benefit of those
-. who might have a right to claim the over
plus.
" When taken I was about 70 leagues
te the e»ft ward and northward of cape Hen
ry, I will to inform the Shippers
and others of these
r " The French are taking every vessel, let
f them be bound where they may—and no
thing saves them but not having a good ear
-1 go. Yesterday I came from Tortola to this
e place to endeavour to get people and provi
, fions to carry the (Ilip home."
, Departed this life, yesterday, Mr. mi
. liam Randolph, of Peter/burg.
- II I. I. II I HI 111 I 111 II PL! ■■...» .
: foreign intelligence.
LONDON, Sept. 29.
A council was field on Wednesday of all
the cabinet mim'fters, except the Earl of
Liverpool, when we understand, it was fi
nally determined that parliament (hould meet
for th e dispatch of business on Tuesday,
the 2d of November next.
The Irilfi parliament is prorpguecj by a
proelamation dated the 15th inft- from *he
[ 2ill inft. to the 24th of o£t.
, The latr negociat'ion—The following are
. given as the outlines of the last conferences
between Lord Malmelbury and M. Treil
hard.
M. Treilhard, on arriving at Lisle, im
mediately waited on Lord Mahncfbury, and
after the ufuaf salutation, aildrefied his
Lord (hip as follows :—" My Lord, the
Frenph government has charged- me to ac
quaint your excellency, that the events
whith have lately passed in France have not
altered theJineere difpojition of the executive
government for peace ; and it has therefore
determined to conclude it on the basis de
livered by M. Letourneur at the commence
ment of the negociatioo. The French go
vernment has no obje£t more at heart than
to restore harmony between France and
England, according to the principles which
may secure the prosperity of the two na
tions. At the fame time Mr. Treilhard
presented a paper to Lord Malmelbury,
containing the ultimatum of the French go
vernment.
Lord Malmelbury, after having read the
paper with attention, replied to M. Treil
hard—" Among the objects contained in
the paper put into my hands, there are some
of the utmeft importance, and on which it
is necessary I (hould consult wi(h my col
leagues ; but 1 thf'fik 1 may fay, there are
some points which are inadnriflible. How
ever, there requires time to refleft on a bu
finefß of so very important a nature, before
I can give you a categorical answer."
1 reilhard then alked his lordlhip whether
he had full powers to treat bafis that
was proposed ; to which Lord Malmelbury
replied—that he had full powers to treat
for any terms ; but that his inftru&ions
did not permit him to accept of the propo
litioHS offered, without firft communicating
with his court.
" My Lord,'faid Treilhard, the govern
ment which sent me hither has charged me
to fignify to you, that if your inftru&ions
do not allow you to accept of the condi
tions I have delivered you Ihould quit Lille
within twenty four hours." Lord Malmef
bury replied, " ttll your government that I
shall be out of Lisle within eight hours."
The parties then bowed to each other and
retired.
It was yesterday reported, that very se
rious mntiriy had broken out among the
Dotch fleet. <t-.
A Vienna letter of the 9th faf 3, the Ital
ian army of of 132,000 1
; men, is to be reirifoi-ced by recruits and 1
troops of the line, which every day pass thrtS'
that city.
OdloN:r r. 1
The hofti'e dispositions evinced by the
triumvirs, being without semblance of con
troul on the deftruftion of Carnot and Bar-,
thelemyledtoan apprehenfionthattheconfer- 1
ences at Lisle, which appeared a facrifice r
to public opinion, would terminate on the 1
firft phulible pietext—but a pretext was c
e not waited for, and the request of our aui
t- baffador to be allowed to consult on a moil .
extraordinary requisition, occasioned an or
-- der that he (hould leave the country. The
- executive conceiving that the people, wea
>f ried of carnage, would require to be told the
e cause of itscootinuißce, have di/playedmuch
e iubtilitv in a proclamation, which required
t the armies to prepare to adl offenfively a
d gainst the Emperoi, on the 6th of O&ober,
- but the great obje£t of which was, to irri
t> tate the public mind against England and
Audria ; whom they rcprefent as the caus
es of all the calamities that had happened,
and that were ;ibout to follow ; though the
'• refufal to return Mantua tfv the Emperor,
as flipulated in the preliminary articles, and
3 the invitation to the countries of Treves,
1, Cologn, &c. See. .to solicit the proteftiou of
1* ranee in the eftablilhment -of a republic at
this fide the Rhine, in defiance of the fame
articles ; together with the compliance to
e the solicitation, as Hated by M- Kfaipis,.
® president of the municipality of Cologn,
• who intimates in his proclamation, that
France requires the Cisalpine republic to
® form immediate guard of 6b,0t0 men—
prove that the Executive of Fianct;, either \
' from an unfatiable thirst of conquell, or an 1
to divert the people from the coofideration
ofdomellic opprefiion, have not had any fe- ?
rious desire for the reiteration of peace. j
The death of Gens. Hoche is, to the di- j
reftory, a misfortune of the firft magnitude I
*—The fame desperate spirit had led each to |
power, 'and similar interest created rccipro- >
r cal regard. '
1 Moreau, almost immortal/zed by his re- j
treat, isdeftroyedbyhis perfidy : hisftrength 1
would have been perhaps iuvincible if, to
1 retain it, he had not traduced and
' his friend. *
' To ii finite resolution Jourdan, and many
others, join cenfiderable military talents,
• but, befidesa deficiency of thatgenius which
should comprise all things at once, they are
not to be trailed.
Buonaparte, who unites all the qualities
rCquifite.to found an empire, continues his
profeffit>ns of attachment to the dire&ory.
—Whilll each parfues the fame objeft, the
appearance will'continue ; but the firll clalh
of interest will create hostility, and we err
if the period is far distant.
Yesterday the French emigrant, General
' Frotte, arrived in town from France ; he
came by way of Havre and Portsmouth.and
left Paris on the 26th ult. He represents
that capital to be in a state of great and ge
neral confufion, and taentionsthe prevalence
of a report that hostilities had been renewed
between the' French and Auftrians.
The fifty-four new members in the coun
cils are the immediate creatures of the di
■ redlory.
In the southern and western provinces of
France, the people have manifefted their dif
. approbation of the recent revolution in the
capital, by adls of violence against the par
tisans of the party j they afford
afyl«raß to the emigrants, and have depriv
ed of thtir offices some funftionaries who
attempted to enforce thelate decrees against
them. The ci-devantprovincesof Auvergne,
Lionnois, Main, Anjou, and Bretagne, are
mentioned among the most di(affe£ted—;tbe j '
latter in particular, where the military p<jw- | '
er is infufficient to repress the disorders of J
the populace. Peace is every where desired, 1 |
and the government was censured for defer- '
ring the period of its return.
The unfortunate prosecuted Frenchmen ; '
who daily flock to this kingdom, represent j
the mass of their countrymen as on the eve ■
of infurre£lion, for the purpose of enforc- ; '
ing of thelate sanguinary laws
against emigrants, and a serious dis
position qn the part of the direflory
to peace. Their statements are too fre
quently the impreflion yf their hopes, and '
have often proved erroneous—they are now !
unanimous and consistent in Hating (and '
all that we have heard on the fubjedl war- j
ranny our believing them) that the new ty- j
rants of France is obaoxioua to the people, ■
who seek occasion to destroy it. \
PARIS, September 27.
It is certain that General Bernadotte will j 1
not accept of the command of the three di- 1
visions in the South. He prefers returning \
to Buonaparte, in order to put an end to 1
the war io Italy. ,
Gen. Dutertre has been arretted and sent 1
to Paris— 10,000 livres and several t
chains have been found in the straw rnatrafs j
of his bed. It is said that his custom was \
to swell the bills of expenses, and to lay the t
communes on the road under contribution, r
Ihe adjutant-general who accompanied him e
accuses him of these fadls ajid has sent him
to Paris with a guard. * n
Monsieur de Fouville, one of the great- (
eft friends of the conspirators, read yelter- b
day at Exchange, a letter, informing him ii
that the insurgent army of -the south is com- h
posed of 60,c00 men, that they have killed f,
1000 republicans, and forced Gefi. Laune 0
to capitulate. Wewifli the Police to watch o
over this Monsieur l'ouville, who takes the o
quality of -agent de change while he is only k
aa agent of Louis XVIII. On our part, ti
we can assure that Marseilles is quiet. f,
[Ami des Loix.J J
b
Francois de Neufehateau, the new Direc- ti
tor, was in "September, 1793, taken ijjto 1,
custody by order of the oominittee of Pub- f<
lie Safety, for the supposed aristocratic prin
ciples of his phy failed Pamela. Barrere,
who caused and who extolled the arrest, has
not much kindness to expeft from that quar
ter.
• „ 5
VIENNA, September !3.
Gen. Buonaparte, whose health has for d
some time been iii a weak state, receives the pi
medicaj adyice of the celebrated physician, v
Mufcati, who is now one of the diredlors
of the Cisalpine republic.
\! By this day's Mail.
I NEW-YORK, Dec. 2.
\ The public has beenamufed from timet®
( time with news-paper paragraphs and ex
j tra&s of letters from the Weft-Indies, an
_ nouncing that the French privateers had re-
ceived orders to cease cruizing against the
_ American trade—and that consequently,
1 our veflels might navigate those seas with
_ fafety. How well founded thefc reports
have been, Jet the experience of every A
„ merican that has been met by a French
cruizer declare. It is much more than
j probable that the several intimations lately l ,
made public of another favorable change ia
p our allies, are bottomedon the fame ground*
t with the preceding; and that nothing more
a in intended than teiindmce Americans to
ttr without apprehension the regions of ru-
in > lift our brotherly allies, deprived of these
( refouices, should incur the danger of want
[ ing provision.. Let us be on our guard a-.
} gafnij, such improbahle tales-j—Let us have
_ evidence more .worthy cf reliance than the
r ur,authenticated paragraphs, cij|Kilated by
( ; enemies, it may be supposed, rather than by
r j friends, before we put ourselves in the
( > of being made a facrifice to 4 the cupijty
; and. unbridled licence of a banditti as un
i principled as the barbarians of Algiers, Tu
nis, or Tripoli.
( The new buildings in Wall-street, far the
| " Bank of New-York," and the « Omce.of
| Discount andDepofit," exhibit a very plca
_ (ing improvement in that conspicuous litun
, tion. The l übbifhbeing how cleared ?.Way
; , tht T appear to great advantage. The e&
I ternal ornaments of the e buildings, though
'J plain, are extremely beautiful. That no
polition more eligible could bav£ been «ho
j fen, is evident for various reasons—and the
j ifcure manner in which they are built, will
afford much fafety to the property deposit
ed in them. We are told they are soon to
be occupied AS BANKS.
We announce the opening of the oeur
State Prif;>n. The prisoners to the num
ber ot 70, were removed thither last Tues
day night. The Governor has issued his
proclamation, diredting all Sheriffs to con
vey criminals to the fame.
BOSTON, November 27.
The capt. of the Gov. Carver,, fjvike on
St. Georges Banks, a3 mentioned unaereur
marine head, informed, that he left Bour
deaux the 11th Odt. at which time it was
publicly notified that Messrs. Pincknty and
Marshall had arrived in Paris; but that it
was not there known, whether Mr. Gerry,
had joined them or not; that the merchants,
of Bourdeaux, were apprehenfiveoftheir not
being received with much cordiality, judg
ing their invitation to Paris to have been°a
measure of the former Diredlory.
Capt. Stinfon, from the Streights in
forms, that Earl St. Vincents still retained
his position off Cadiz.
Between-the houts of 1 aodfc'Vcl'ock,
J thi'3 morning, fire broke out in the fciiild
| in g> occupied T>y Me (Irs Broaders and Wiz
z!e, in Ann-ftreet 1 , which confamed the
j fame, trtgether with the adjoining dwelling
lioufes to the creek tenanted-b'y'Mtffw Hh
; ger and Hoofman. The nncqrflmon spirit
and alacrity of the citizens prevented its fur
; tlier spread. A Mr. ffalf, who lodged at
: Mr. Wizzle's, it is feared) fell a viiTtim to
1 the flames.
„ MURDER.
DOVER, NOV. 20.
On Saturday last, a Murder was committ
ed by capt Jeremiah Pote of Falmouth, on
; the body of his wife. The following cir
| cumftanceß are reported to have attended the
tranfaihon ; coming ho*ne in the evening,
he found a certain Doftor had called'in at
his house ; his wife mentioned to the Doft'or
its being very dark_ and rainy, and invited.
1 bun to tarry till' morning—her husband re
plied, that no one (honld tarry in his house
that night but himfelf ; the Doftor then',
went, off—foon after he took the (hovel
from the hearth, and laid it on his (houlder,
walking the room ; his wife recollecting
what he had said, *was alarmed ; asked .hini
what,lie meant, hoped he was not goinglo
do her injury, and took hold of his arm ;
he immediately (truck her with the (hovel, on
the head, and repeated the blows till (he ex
pired. The small children gave an alarm ;
when the neighbours arrived, h« was fitting
hy the sire—said he had killed his wife, and
must be hanged ; be was immediately tak
en and committed to Portland goal.
Nrx defeft of his reason hadbeen observed,
nor any cause known for. this horrid a£fc,
unless it was done in a paroxysm ofjealoufy.
On Sunday a jury of inquest was had 011 htr .
body who, after hearing the evidence, bro't
in their verdift,'" That Jeremiah Potc, her
hulband, on the evening nf thp nth .lfift. (
four or five blows upon the head and neck
of his said wife, did itrike, by nftaHS whefer
of (he in a few minutes died ar.d that he,
of his malice aiore thought* did rnurder aud
kill her."—Tyfonday. last he jWas committed
to goal in this take his trial at the •
supreme.judicial cpiirt to be. lield here in,'...'
June next—Capt. Potfc asd ji>s J-vife have
both veryrejpeita'blc . Fonncqtions in |:he
trtwn of Falniontli, who ,b.};. tnelSnchol
ly are brought into tbe depths of
fofnow and diftrefji,
The City Bailing Assembly"
. Is-JunavolAablf''polt r -,oi!td tS - ••
L b .y
YESTERDAY in Mjikct, Ctjcfnut, South SecontJ,
Third, «r Duck -ftwer, a frtiaftOrattU'd'Mo -
rocco Pocket Book. cvw)iaiiiin K i Bank Nottiof Kne
Dollars each, and one. of Ti'O Dollars,. , ». p*.
per,, the contents of wliici.urc not ri;c<illifted. Wfc'.i
ovci will (itiiicr it, wi'ti.iis co-i.fen'sVo Mr. jam??"
O'Jv.crs, ii: h,is Hotel, fluH iccc:\e Five litJilaYt. .
v. (i . ...
Ifcc. 2,%\)t <3ajcttc. ; ;
PHILADELPHIA' f
MONDAY FVF.NING, DF.CSMBER 4. 1
Li. - t
A Baltimore Stage, which arrived here f
yetterdav left that city ori Saturday morning r
—A Gentleman who came pa(T,nger in. c
forms that (ignals were displayed at the ob- (
fervatory when he came away for fix flrtops
and schooners, four or five brigs' and three i
ITiips.—Our papers from Baltimore a
are of Thursday last. t
t
Mr. Spragve is ele&ed a Federal Re- t
preventative for New-Hampfkire. {
A letter from Waterford, contains the a
following melancholy account ;—" Thurf- c
day morning the following accident happen- t
ed 3t Newtsn-ftrand : Two fine young wo- <
men (Miss Murphy and M'f s Power) iti j
company with several other "females, bath- f
ing in the river at the above place, had ven- c
tured rather too far, when the tide being a
cm the turn going out, they were carried a
beyond their depth : the cries of the other
femalfs alarmed a small boy who was near j
the plsce. He haftcrted to the spot, and t
feeing their melancholy situation, inamedi- c
ately plunged to their afliftance ; but, we 1
al-e sorry to date, his humane endeavours \
'proved fruitlefs, as Miss Mutphy funk be- f
fore he could reach her : he, however, was 1
enabled to convey Miss Power to the fi'.ore,
where flie raniained nearly half an hour with- 1
out any visible signs of life ; (he then be- 1
gan to fhevv some symptoms of Yeturning a- 1
nimation, and in a short time was so far re- 1
covered as to be able to speak ; her firft en- ]
quiry was about her ill fated companion, and ]
being informed that (he was fafe, ftie seem- |
ed perfectly at cafe. A sedan chair was ;
then provided, in which (he was conveyed j
home arid put.to bed, where ihe continued
very easy till about three o'clock, when she :
made another inquiry after her companion: i
the person who attended her was so rafti as :
.to inform her of her lamentable fate, from
which moment flit appeared bereft of feufe : i
(hortly after {he was seized with strong con
vulsions, and about five o'clock expired* 1
Lott. pap.
From a London Paptr.
Last week a wedding was solemnized at
a village near Stamford, which was attend
ed by -some fingolar circumstances.*—A
young man having paid his acldreffes to a
female in t>he neighbourhood (for at least
nine months,) it became requisite he ftiould
marry her. He accordingly summoned his
friends and relatives to be pfefent at the. con
fummationj this being done, it was necessa
ry to feod for another attendant, and he no j
ltfs a person than the accoucheur.. Agreea
ble to the notice, friends, relatives, and
Dwaor attended; The lady being •some
' thing easier, it was agreed they Ihould pro
ceed to Church, which was only across the
way, and that the do&or (hould attend them
as it was not certain wbofc services might
be firft wanted; but for decency the
was stationed in tHe porcli of the church un
til the ceremony was over. On? at
tendants, brother to the bride/newed, dur
ing the service, anxiety, observing,
that if'the parfo.n t vva3 not quick, the child
would be a bastard. There was no necessity
for such great haste, as the lady was not de
livered of a fine boy until early the next mor
ning.
sA new way of reckoning—A sailor marri
ed'a woman, staid with her the firft night,
•went to sea the next day, and returned in
three months, when he found her brought
to bed of a boy. Jack stormed, and called
his wife a w ; but the nurse abused him
in her turn for a sea-looby, that he did not
know how to reckon for a woman on shore,
who counts by day and night. * Well, fays
Jack, but that makes but fix months, and
(he ought to g» nine. You fool, replied
the matron, you'have forgot thethreemonths
you were at sea ; only that three
months by day, and three at night, and
three at fea,-make nine months, and you'll
find you* wife an honest woman. Jack
could not follow this calculation and was
obliged to knock under, and allow it to be
all right.
memoirrs or citizen Barthelemy,
Latety chosen Member of the Direftory,
iiv France.
M. Barthelemy, is the nephew of the
Abbe, of the fame name, who acquired such
deserved celebrity by his learned labors,
particularly his "Voyage dejeune Ana
charfe." The uncle was patronized by M.
Choifeul, theprimeminifter of France, whom
he had accompanied while Cpmpte de Stain
ville, in his embassy into Italy. After their
return, young Barthelemy was placed in
one of the public offices at Versailles, and
1 became initiated at an early period of life
into the foreign correspondence of the then
ministry.
His prote&or was a nobleman, who unit
ed very dissimilar and apparently incompati
ble pursuits in his own person. An ac
complished courtier, he cultivated a taste for
the fine arts, intrigued in all the cabinets of
Europe, and was greatly attached to litera
ture and learned men. To him has been
attributed two of the most remarkable and
portentous events of our time, the family
compaa with Spain, and the union of the
lioufes of Aullria and Bourbon by the mar
riage of Marie Antoniette with Louis XVI.
No sooner had Barthelemy attained the
age of manhood, than his powerful iaterefts
procured him a foreign million. He ac
cordingly accompanied the Baron de Bre
teuil to Switzerland, and resided with him
some time afSokure. Thence he repaired
with the fame minifttr to Sweden, witnessed,
and, if 1 niiftake not, afiilted in that memo
rable revolution, the event of-which'has de
monstrated how easy it is for a king, aided
by a (lauding army, a parifitical nobility, i
and a few fplliers cf fortune, to overturn !
the liberties of a nation. (
When count d'Aduelmar was sent ambaf- J
fador to this country, he was accompanied .
by the present dire&or ; and on his return '
to Paris, M. Bartheleiny, who before was
secretary of legatip., became minister pie- \
nipotentiary. He also resided here for a ,
considerable time,- during the embassy of M. <
de la Luzerne. <
In the mean time, a great revolution was '
insensibly preparing in his native country ;
and it was his singular good fortune, not- ,
withftandmg his declared averfioa to- it, to 1
be benefited by the event. His family had 1
been prote&ed by the nollejfe, and both him
felf and his uncle had received many mark* '
of attachment from Louis XVI. It was ,
accordingly imagiued, that he would have |
openly joined the emigrants. One of the '
two things, however, rr.uft have occurred :
either he became a sincere convert to the
principles of the republicans., and afted j
from a conviction of the goodness £f their 1
caufc ; or, he concealed his sentiments, and, '
affe&ing to be the open enemy of t}ie roy- \
alifts, lacrificed bis opinion to his ambition. '
It was Switzerland; the school of his jure- ,
nils years, that was destined to be the thea- 1
tre i.'f his glory. There he firft opened the
diplomatic powers cntrufted to him as'mi
nifter of the new commonwealth ; and it is
but justice to add, that he conduced him
felf throughout all the intricacies of his po
litical agency with equal address and success.
When he made his appearance iu the po
litical hemisphere, he was treated with con
tempt, nay even with insult ; but such is
the magic of success, that fame no sooner
began to display her gigantic powers, than
he found means firft to get himfelf acknow
ledged as the minister of the republic, and
soon afterwards to enter into advantageous
alliances with the very states which had beer,
its bitterest enemies. ,
M. Barthelemy was eletled to the direc
torate in the most honorable manner. De
clining pomp and parade, he repaired to Pa
ris by a different route than that expe&ed,
and thus avoided the envy which generally
accompanies popularity. 0« his firft inter
view with his colleagues, he publicly pro
claimed himfelf a friend to peace. He is
finee said to have been in a minority in the
cabinet, a9he has Gded with Carnot against
the other three dire&ors, with whom they
hbve differed on almost every fubjeft.
I Mr. Barthelemy succeeded Letourneur in
i the direftorv, who went out by lot ; the
latter has since been employed to conduct
the negociatlon at Lisle.
✓
MALO, and REVEILLIERE LEPAUX.
TheMoniteur haspublilhed a letter which
contains authentic and circumstantial details
of what pafled when general Malo lately vi
sited citizen Reveilliere, the Direftor, to
complain of his being suspended.
The Direftor replied to the complaints
of Malo with much gentlenefsand prudence,
avoiding every thing which might hurt his
feelings, or add to the kind of disgrace he
complained of. The Gen. however, sup
posing thrit the moderation which was dis
played in the Dire&or's converfatiou, pro
ceeded from fear, suddenly changed his
tone. Supporting himfelf in a menacing
air, upen the guard of his sabre, he said,
" It is not to such a Triumvirate that I (hall
surrender my honor and my rank. They
will soon not have it in their power to per
form any more arbitrary a£U. Their reign
will not last long." V
Citizen Reveilliere Lepaux approached
him with a firm countenance, and pushed
him out into his anti-chamber. " Wretch"
said he " because I have spoken to you with
mildhef* and with the greatest delicacy, do
you come tp insult me in my own house
with arms in your hand ? Know, that sa
bres and epaulets cannot terrify me, and
that I entertain no other fear but that of
doing evil. Tell those who resemble you,
and would overthrow the Republic—inform
in particular, your generals—you know
whom I mean—then they are not capable
of intimidating me. It is not easy to turn
aside from his duty the man who fears nei
ther fuffeiings nor death. As to you I
(hould order you to be immediately arretted
for having behaved with insolence to one of
the firft magistrates of the Republis ; I am,
however, still inclined to fliew yau indul
gence ; but retire immediately, and never
set your foot again within my house."
Reveilliere Lepaux is generally esteemed
to be a man of excellent moral charafter and
a firm republican. The royalist prints of
Paris, therefore, have lately been very vi
olent in their abuse of him.
fr<m Ih ANALYTICAL BEVIfiW for 1796.
A*t. lxvii , Strictures on the condud of theßev.
George Markham, M. A. Vicar of Carlton, in
York/hire : occasioned by bis prosecution of se
veral members of the people called Quakers, for
their non-payment of tythes. In a lcttef to
R— W— of H—n memberof thitfociety.—
By Charles Wiifon, 8 vo. 50 pages. Pri:s Is
6d. Owen. 1791.
THE age of perfection, like the age of chival
ry, is, wf trust, gone, never to return. Yet it
may still be in the power of a bigoted or felsfh in
' dividual, to render cxilting laws subservient to his
paflions or his intcreft. A charge of this kind is,
■ in th ' present pamphlet, brought against a clergy
- man. We do not take upon as to authenticate the
r charge; but we (hall give the heads of the affair
from" a state of the cafe, fignnd by eight per foes
' imprisoned in Yoik castle. According to this
> Oatemei-t, about the latter part of 1781, or the
I beginning of 1782, Mr. Markham procured a
r futr.mons for some Quakers to appear before the
justices at the quarter sessions at Skepton, to (how
: ciufi; why they did not comply with his demands
' (or f.nall tythes " they obty-d the summons ; th«
• justices deemed the vicar's claim unreasonable, but
; told him, that if he would make reaforable de
j mands, they wouid grant him a warrant to obtain
them : this hs declined ; ahd, after four years,
" commi nosd a suit in the court of exchequer against
" fix person!, only one of whom was a Quaker.—
1 While this suit w:s pending, in 1789, he obtained
[- processes out of the fame court against ten persons
of the pei suasion called Quakers. The defendants
' stated their religious' fcruplcs against complying
" with any demand of this nature; men ioned the
- summary, and comparatively easy mode of pto
-1 ccedirg provided by aifts of parliament ; pleaded
that thJyhadat no time refitted the t :Ung ofgeols
by legal authority for any fuch'claims r andfild, j,.
that a fatal! prifcnrnt bad b'-cn cu2omarily made _
in lieu of tythenMr gtafs mad? ijstnhay. The pro- .
Xecutor (till eantimied his fttit, with eonfMcrabie 1,1
delay, till a decree was obtained for the tythesand
costs of suit, the latter to 2*.'— rn
After fevaral st!tmpt= top.ifftnde'tHc c;
to desist, the defendants, having been h?.rr:\ik' !by »
the proceedings, abput fix years, .were by attach
rnent tak'.'n into ctlfwdy, and committed to the
county ghol in York, w 1 ore they still remain in b
confinement. Most of the prifoncts are in low J;
circumstances, and all of thtm dependent on their
in3uftry for support. It; is said to have fincc:ap
peared, that, above a year befprrf the imprisonment ,
took place, the Rev G M. had recciv:d of tJie *
of f :veral of tie ptifoners a compilation b
for his dem|tids, £
. 1 he author of these on the ground of
the prcc animadverts \vith>ftce
dom oil the f.veiity of chit conduct which eou'.d
treat as criminals, wit!i ujn . leyainsr ri
gorjany members of a profefiion, the principles of
which are adverse to' hatred a' pni:y[lL\V!L- e:
Tlie peaceatite and orderly behaViot pfthe j r
Uers ccrtiinly entitles them to cofrtpleat prate; 1 I 'll „
(rotn the f'ate, without any consideration of the
ground of their religious firuplcs and if it has 1 P
l)e<s] in the power of any unfeeling individual to ! ts
harrafsany of their-fraternity in the manner def- a
eribed in thit pamnMet, the laws refpeitiug rejig-
ion are in a very defective state, and require a n im
mediate and thorough re vifal. It is much to be re- v
grettcd.that the late 1 eafonabW petition of the Qua- q
kers to the legislature was rcj>-Aed. c
~1 i d
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. b
. n
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. a
t
Arrived. days. c
Brig James, Gemmeny, C. N. MXe, 29
Schooner Fanny Allen, Allen, Virginia, 21
* Cornelia, Green, New-Y&rk, 10 |
CLEARED. | 1
-Ship Wilmington, Hillman, Hamburg j c
Rigfdag, Nanniugs, | '
Lisbon
Brig Polly, Coffin, Cape Francois '
Fair American, Harquin,
St. Bartholemews and Leghorn '
Anna, Maffit, Gonaives '
Polly, Charnock, Charleston '
Schooner Harriot, Da Cefta, St. Croix
Alciope, Rice, '»'♦ Jacqmtlf 1
Letty, Mason, Savannah (
Fair Trader, Sequin, Norfolk '
Sloop Sally & Jane, Small, Havanna
Sally, Mory, Petit Guavo '
Betsey, Sweetfer, Charleston ]
Triton, Mnir, Snowhill ;
Industry, Rigby, do.
Carret, Brent, North Carolina
Captain Gemmeny failed from the Mole
in company with the Elizabeth Fullerton, '
arrived here on Thursday. Captain G. in
forms that he left at Jeremie the 30th Otte
ber, the Brig Weft Indian, and fcheoner
Juliana, both of this port, and fpokein the
river the brig Eliza, O'Connor, one of the
Mole fleet, and brig Grace, Wills, from
Amsterdam.
The (hip Thomas Chalkley, Clark, from
Martinico, is below.
The Grace left the Texel Oft. 2, a few
days after which spoke a French privateer,
' the Vengeur, belonging to commodore Bar
ney, three doys from Brest. The captain
informed, that General Buonaparte had sur
rounded 35,000 Auftriana and obliged them
to lay down their arms. fThis i$ probably
tbe fame account the public hav* been in
poffeflion of some time, brought by the
{hip Farmer, captain M'Collorn, from Bour
deax.
Boston, November 29.
Captain Fojlrr of Schooner Nancy inftrms
thai he lefl at Turlt IJlaud capt. Hutchins
late of the trig Robertt, of Charlejloivn, in
great dijlreft, having cfJeßed the escape of lis
life only from the Liverpool Jhip iuh\ch was
risen upon, as'mentioned under the Providence
head in our lq/1. He was about going to Ja
maica, with capt. Thompson, in order to take
andcarried in there. Capt. Fojler generously
aJSJIed capt. Hutchins with some money and
- fought hnme his mate.
Same day arrived, brig Ruby, Harly,from
Guadaloupe, 27 days. Spoke nothing.
■ Same day arrived, fchr. Parrjlorough,
Gore, from Nova Scotia, 13 days.
Arrived,Jhip America, Stinfon, Malaga,
' lajlfrom Gibralter, 44 days, whenceJbe put in
on account of head winds not carried in, ai re
ported in our lajf. Sailed in co. with the Gen.
: Wayne, IVeld ; Mary, Poiuars, for Bojloa ;
fchr. Winthrop & Mary, Dolivcr,for Glou
' crjler ; also the Hibcrnia, Young, of Ntwbury
port, who had been taken coming from Naples
and carried into Algejiras, where Jbe was
cleared, aud put into Gibraltar, Spoke Oct, 31,
. lat, 33, 28, long. 37, 10.Jhip Hope Childs, on
1. a Whaling Voyage from Wantucket, Nov. 19,
on the Banks, spoke fchr. Gov. Carver, Spoo
ner 38 days out from Bourdtaux.
Capt. Stinfon brought with him as pajfsnger
eapt. Lawrence of the Jbip Plato, of New-
York, who had lejl his vejfel, being taken, and
' carried into IJle Mary, and condemned, vej
fel and cargo.
r Cap. Parsons also cam: pajfenger in the
a America, hisJhip. the Debonair, having been
taken into Algejiras, and condemned with her
8 cargo.
t , Baltimore, Nov. 30.
Yesterday arrived brig Fanny ar.d Jane,
5 capt. John Conway, from Cape Nichola
'• Mole, which place (he left, the 4th instant.
' The following was handed in by the cap
r tain :
' Nov. 3. Sailed from the Mole in compa
c ny with the Englifllhomeward-bound pack
a et, convoy of the Ambuscade frigate,
e the commander of which waued f«r, and
" took under proteftion American yelfels-a
---* mounting to 1 2 fail, among,which were the
* fchr. Edward, capt. Duncan, of Baltimore,
fchr. Betsey, capt. Gorfuch of Baltimore,
11 and capt. "Clark in a fehr. name unknown.
Oft. 8. The Ibip Sally, capt. Bufwell,
was taken in lat. 22, 3 C > N. long. 69, ij,
d W. from the brig Pandour, capt. Gatereau,
is who took out 21 men, and put on board 11
t» Frenchmen to fend them to ot. Domingo ;
g after eight daps, was retaken from the En
-3! glifli brig Dilligence, and sent to Jeremie.
*d One half demanded as a salvage.
Brig Polly, Coffin,
The ship Ard-uf, cspt GraytelJ, was- "
boarded fromatlm. foiailroa v/.'tbin
two leagues of Francois, and. ordered ['
iitto the Mole with liberty to fell.
The brig Olite, capt. Brady, of Balti
more, from Mariguana bound home, was
captured off Heneaga and carried into the
Mole: vcfl'cl and cargo condemned.
The Charming Betsy of Baltimore, was
beating into the Mole, after a paflage of ten
days, when capt. Conway failed.
[Our Hibernian-American readers will y
doubtless rejoice to hear of the tranquil and
happy Jituation of the famous kingdom of 1
Dalkey.] ■
FROM THE DUBLItJ COUIAST. 1
Dalkey Gazette Extraordinary ! .
August 23, 1797.
It having-beeii generally reported that his
excellency, Earl Camden, intended honor-
ing the annivtrfary with hia pre fence, the ■
KING OF DALKEY ordered that the "
prime minister (hould be prepared with a sui
table extempore speech, and gave orders that
a table (hould be prepared for his excellency
and suite's reception ; and that a hamper C
with the choicest viands and the mod ex- '
quifite wines, (boughtfrom Kellyand Coop
er, of jShip-Street) confiding of Hock, Ma
deira, Port, Claret, and Cbampaigne, (hould
be prepared. The fpeecb, which the prime £
minister instantly wrote, was approved of,
and would have been delivered had the wea
ther induced his excellency to put his gra
cious intentions into execution.
" May it please your Excellency,
" I am commanded by the KING of
DALKEY to expiefs the high sense his
majesty entertains of the honour conferred
on him and his Kingdom, by your Excellen
l cy's prefeace this day. The fubjefts of
Dalkey have rVt been'inattentive ohfervers j
6f what pa(Ted in the neighbouring king- ,
doms ; and they remember with gratitude
the eminent services which your illustrious
father rendered to the empire. His large
contribution to the stock of PUBLIC LI
BERTY endears the name of C AMBDEN 1
to the people of Dalkey. May you Ex- '
celltncy continue the faithful represen
tative of the lejl of kings ; and that yeur
Excellency's administration may terminate
honourablp for yourfelf, and happily for the
prince and people, is the ardent with and
fervent prayer of the King and the fubjefts
of Dalkey."
Letters patent have pafled the great seal,
containing a grant of the dignity of Baron
and Viscount of the kingdom of Dalkey to j
th« Right Hon. Sir Sobiefki Capias, and
the heirs male of his body lawfully begot
ten', by the name, fty'e and title of Baron
Norway, and Viscount Killiney, of Satisfa
ciendum Castle.
Letters patent have pafled the great seal,
containing a grant of the dignity of Baron
of the Kingdom of Dalkey to the Rt.JHon.
Sir Robert W«rfted, and the heirs male of
his body lawfully begotten, by the name
style and title of Lord Baron Plush, of Li
berty Hall.
Letters patent have pafled the great seal
containing a grant of the dignity of Baron
of the Kingdom of Dalkey to Capt. fofeph
Southwood of the brig Ballon, and the heirs
male of hia body lawifully begotten, by the
name, style and title, of Lord Baroa Ta
mone, of the United.States.
Letters parent have*pafled the great seal,
containing a grant of the dignity of Baron
of the Kingdom of Dalkey to Capt. David
, Bruce, of the brig Polly, and the heirs male
of bis body lawfully begotton, by the name,
style and title of Baron Salem, of the Uuitcd
State,.
Letters parent have pafled the great seal,
. containing a grant of the dignity of Baron
, of the Kingdom of Dalkey to Sir Thomas
I Trump, and the heirs male of his body law
fully begotten, by the name, style and title
; of Lord Baron Invoice, of Trump Place.
AuguJ} 24 Jive in the Morning.
We stop the press to announce that the
' council was then fitting, (purfant to royal
notice) but no orders were then iflueftto the
~ press.
POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, 4th Dec. 1797.
' Letters for the British Packet Carteret,
Capt. Taylor, for. Falmouth, will be receiv
s ed at this office until Tuesday the sth inft.
s at 12 o'clock noon.
N. B. The inland peftage to New-York
n mult be paid.
, Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. Hastie,/rem Bourdeaux ;
• Claret in Cafei of a very fupcrior quality,
r White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in bafcets of 1z bottles each,
j White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk t do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
/ For Sale Iy
,/ j AMES L ATIMER, jun.
n j-t,South Wharves.
r Who has a/Jo for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. >. daw
Six Cents Reward.
'■< n ANAWAY, thisnior»irg, December 4,from
a Jt\_ the SuMcriixr, an indented boy, named Wil
liam Aston, about 5 f«et, 6 or 7 inches high—
fair completion, heavy brows, ff-eaks thick, ft out
made. Had on wheD he went away, a blue coatee,
black vest, blue trowfers. This is to caution the
L- p.sblic t"t to credit him on my account as I will
_ not pay any debts of hia contracting after this date.
Afiy person harbouring him, or employing him,
j (hall be profcuted to the utmost rigour of the law ;
all masters of vellels are cautioned not to take him
L " away at their peril; any person apprehending him
e and lodging him in )ailfo that his master.may get
», him again, (Hall receive the above reward and no
charges paid by
j' "John Harper,
1" . No, 67, Arch Street.
. * Dec.. 4.
1» -
h To be Sold,
1 The time of a Negro Boy,
' About fifteen years of age. has seven years yet
to fcrve ; T.e is an exce'.l nthouf; servant, aiftivs
e. an Iheahhy. Enquire ol the Printer.
D;:em l . er t. ' <liw
IMPRISONED LOYALTY
i his fx>j! ] mt old Jong is f referred in Qiyv'<l
Lloyd's " Memoirs if thoje that fvffered jn the
eaufe of QbarLs I." He speaks of it, as thi
cothpifitiol of ,a -worthy psrfonage, W 0 fiif
fered deeply in those times, and was /till Uv
ingt ziAtb "3 other reward- than the confci
enxe of ba-Ang'fuffered. The anthhr, nam*
s>e has not mentioned ; hut if traditiou my h*
credited, thi< fang was written by Sir Kr
L'Estrangf.] .
BE AT on, pruuJ Billows ; Poreas, b'ow ;
Swell, cyrled waves, high as Jove's roof;
Your incivility c'oth Alow
That innocenee is tempest proof;
Though Nereus frown, my thoughts are
calm; 1
Then strike, Afflidlion, far thy words jre bilpi
That which the world mifcallj a jiil,
A private closet is to me;
Whiltt a good confidence is rtiyhail,
And innocence my liberty ;
Locks, bars, and solitude, together, me',
Make me t\p. prisoner, lyat an anchoret.
I, wbilft I wifh'il to be retired,
Intp this private room was turn'd ;
A« if their wisdoms had
The falamatider Ihould beburn'd'j
Or like those sophists, that would drowii t <ifh x
I am co-rtftriln'd tt? fuffer whit I wilii.
The cynick love* his poverty ;
The pelican her wildernefa :
And 'tis the Indian's pride to be
Naked on frozen Caucasus : ,
Contentment cannot smart; Stoics we let-
Make tormruts easy to their apathy. T
Thcfe manacles upon my arm
I as my mistress* favours wear ;
And for to keep ?ny ancles warm,
1 have foinc i.ori lhacklesthere:
These walls are but my garrison ; this cell, v
Which mea/call jail, doth prove my citadel.
I'nl in the cabtnet lock'd up,
Like fame high prized rrurgaritc,
Or, like the great Mogul or Pope,
Am clayiter'J up from public light .•
Retirediiefs is a piece <jf ntajeiht,
And thu? proud lultan, I'm as j*teat as thee.
Here fin for want of food mult starve,
Where tempting obje£is are not feeti;
Aud thete strong walls do onty serve
To keep lin-out, and k?ep me iu :
Malice of late's grown charitable fuie,
I'm not committed, but am kept feenre.
So he thatftruck at Jafoti's life,
Thinking t' have made his purpose lure>
By a malicious friendly knife
Did only wound him to a cure:
Malice, I fee, wants wit; for what is meant
Mifchief, oftimes prove favour by th' event.
When once my prince affliflien hath,
Prosperity doth treason seem ;
And to make fmoeth so rough a path,
I can learn patience from him :
New not to fuffer (hews no royal heart;
j When kings wani cafe, fubje&s must bear a pari.
What tho' I cannot fee my king,
Neither in person ner in coin ;
Yet contemplation is ? thing
That renders what I have not, mine :
My king from me what adamant can part,
Whom I do wear engraven on my heart >
i Have you not seen the nightingale,
A prifontr like, coopt in a cage,
How doth <he chaunt her wonted talc
In that her Barrow hermitage f
Even then her charming melody doth prove
That all her bars are trees, her cage a grave.
I am that bird, whom they combine
Thus to deprive of liberty i
Bat tho' they do my corpse confine,
Yet, maugre hate, my f«u! is free :
And tho' im«nur"d yet can I chirp and sing
D i (grace to rebel?, glory to my king.
My foul is free as ambient air,
Although my baser part's immtw'd,
Whillt loyal thoughts do Hill repair
T' accompany my folitqde;
A'though rebellion do my body bind,
My king alone can captivate my mind:
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
1 »
j (If not bsfore dlfpofed of at private sale)
OV Monday the firftdayof January neve, at fix
o'clock, in the evening, at the Mercl anta' Cos- ,
I fee House, in Philadelphia, Tweutv-Six Tioufirad
Seven Hundred and Eighty acres «f LAND, in the
* i Siate New-York, between the northern bound#
of Peunfylvania and the Sufquehanna, now, lata
* m the townships of Hamd«»and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One ioarth of the purchase
money to be paid at the time of sale j for the relidit
credit- of one, two a#id three months, will be gives*
- on intareft and good feturity.
I D<-c. 4. * .qtawtS.
* To be bold at Public Vendue,
(If not before dfpofed of at private sale)
- /""AN Monday the firlt day of January nex,at sue
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant' Coffee
Houfc, in Philadelphia, Forty Thoufind Nine Hun
dred and Thirty-Nine acies of LAND in Gieert
' county, Commonwealth of Peunfylvania, on th» Wa
ters of Fi(h and Wheeling Creek, and tf'l Mile Rud.
'l'lieCc landa are fertile, well timbered and abound in
coal i they were |fotd ten years ago for ss. per acre,
patented eaily in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
' lented in 1792 t the grei'eft part of them were lut
veyed in 1783. ,
This traft i» between the Ohio and Monongahela,
very convenient to water carriage—about 19 miles from
the town of Waihington, and from 14 to 16 from the
villages of Greenlburgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the purchase money is to be paid at the time of
sale ; f<#r the iclidue a credit of one, t*o, .nd thru
months will be given, on interest and good fecurit)
-Dec. 1. 13 »"'J-
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
with the Lot on which it is ereiStcd, situated
ahout the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The heufe is forty two
feet front, and in-neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one h»ndred feet 011 the main
_ street, and extends with the fame treadth tobaak
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, feparattd from the former hy back ftreyt.
II Que third only of the purcj»afe money will be re.
quired upon executing a deed, arid for the re
" mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
1 ermaychufe. This property will be fold free »-
' all incumbrances, and an indifpntable title givenf
® For farther particulars CDqaire either of Dr.
!l William Barnes, residing in Bordentown, near,
the premiles, who will Ihew the fame, or of
1 PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street.
n December a. juvtf
I Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE NOW OPENING,
At their Warchoufe, No. 47, Dock Street, a f.-elh
afTortmcnt of Wqolen and other goods, fiuublc to
the season, received by the late arrivals from Eng
land.
Tlei have alft ftr Sal*,
Lilbnn
l eneriffe Cln pipe;,hhds. apd.quarter callss;
ct Sherry, and C
/£ Port WUies, J
Assorted queep's ware i* crates, &c.
loth mo- diw3tiW3w.FOR SALE—by the Sußsca'iisas, ,
An elegant assortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIRFS, by 'he bale, I
' WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
ror at. { Peun-Ureet
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes ,
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Lisbon WINK, in pipes
CLOVES and > , . . a . , . . v
NU VMFGS \ °f t " e l* tc^im P ortatlon » boxes
Spaniih Woo!, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Willings ss° Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. »i.
Nov. ti • w3cstf
FOR SALE,
11 the subscribers, No. ai, Penn-Oreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
CjmfJiiflg cf
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
CoiTaas Pllnjum Clotlis
Sjnalu suzz.y do.
Hiimbunjs Charconna Dorea
BHe'Cloth Tanjibs
Chinti aiyS Calicoes Mulmuls
Checks
•
GUighaa-.s da. ■
Guzzenas Bandanno;s
Guriahs Sillerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Sf>oty do.
Giilie Ro:nali Pel flans of various colours
Mock Pulicali »
ipo tons ?UGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings C3 5 Francis.
The Piece Goods C
Of the Ganges are nov/ open and cxpofed to falc «t
that conimodious ttore the north wtft of
f Market an>i Fourth Hreet. hov. to.
LAW D'lN G,
#fom on board the ship Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, ff«m L«ndon,
60 tons oT the best clean Rufiia
HEMP
60 rafksof bottled BROWN STOUT.
F or£a!e by the iubferihers, No. ai, Pcnn^lreet.
z Willings & Francis.
Pel. t. d
Just arrived.
From Pcrt-au-Piir.ce, and for Sale b/ the ftitferi
bcr-i, No. ix, Penn-ftreuf,
6*Z 1
31 tierces ( Prime Coftee
jl3 barrels f 11II1C (
646 bags J t
Wirings & Francis. <
- oa. » <
FOR SALE, fir '
Jcfeph Anthony ss* Co. j
No. Si Chefsut Street, :
A cargo of choice Ecurdeaux Bra»dy, ill and ad i
proof, just la;ided (
ijo bales of Bour'jon cotlon of a Aipcrior quality i
y do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy blaclc pepper in bales
Bourbon Indipo of the firft quality _
High proof Jamaica Ipirits
Old London particular Madeira wine /In pipes & i
do. market do ( qr. caflcs. 1
New England rum in hoglieads
Genuine Holland Qin in pipes ) .
Claret in eaf. s
Jpeimsceti candh's and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef t
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
t>o. Herringindo do
Best Bgfton Machartl in barrels of the fall fart.
New-ErglantJ t-jw l ; *«n
A few tons of Russia cordage .
Rufiii feather beds
Clovtr and Timothy feed in :aCc» a
L?ng whale-boon ( p
No i, a, and 3, Boflon fail due-k a
t A few chells firft quality Hyson tea |
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and ..
An.in-voicq of Dutch hollow glass ware.
NjTemher 8. daw.
NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
7he Largo of the Ship Concord\
Captain Thompson, from Bit a via.
About 300 tons firlt quaU'y Java Coffe»(th«
whole having been felecled)
• 80 tons Java Sugar, in. canillers and bags
10 logurcs of old. Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Clsvcs J
FOR SALE BT K
PFTER BLIGHT. {)
IVho also offers For Sale, £
Just landed from Ihip Amity, from Jamaica. 0
40i bllds Jamaica Sugar, and jj
170 do. do. Rum.
novemhfr d6w 3
Idancing SCHOOL. !
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
most refpe.ilful compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, ,-!» d re
turns his most grateful thanks, for the'very
bountiful encouragemeuV-he has experienced for
these twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity df informing them, that his school will be
open'd on VVednefday the jjd instant, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in 'lie moi*ning
for young ladies, and 6 in the evening for young
gentlemen.
Praftifing Balls will commence on Tues
day, 6th December, and be every
Tuesday, during the season.
Nov. 17. aawtf. j.
Mnfical Inflrument ManufaElory, \
16/, Arch-flreet. n
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY. ai
HARPER, s
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has ®
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
' Pedals, patent l'well, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for feuftbility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, Gmpiioity and durability of conilruition, the
faperiorrty of flatters himfelf, afingle tri
al Will conv'uice the unprejudiced judge- As they |
are manufactured imder-bi. immediate mfpe.lion, ]
of the vi'ity be•- feafotu'd materials, he can fell on \ R
rcafonable terms for Cash, lnftrumsuts repaired, | ' 3
tuned, &c.. i tc
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex- ac
ehange for new. w
novtmber 13. 21 w2rnn.
All I'erfcns <vho are indebted to
theeftate of William Hevsiiam, fen. of Phlla- _
delphia, deceased, are requested to make speedy
payment; and thdTc who.haVe any demands a
gainst said estate, will pieaC to them,'pro
perly atcefted, to the l'rfbfcribcrs.
William Heyfliam, "1 do
Rebert Heyjhc.m. E:;ecutors. I't
■Francis Bowes Say re, J
uavsmUr 6. ' ittw4w
51 T H O'M AS R AND ALL,
[ PRESENTS hi, relpe-Stj to his Frhnds, an<J the
Publk ;h go er.il, in.'ormsthem that hehasop.nsd
anOftice, at his ho-jfe, No. 83, Spruce flrest, for
he {.firpolc <!f buft.U'fe in the line of
Co«,:nifiio:i and AgstJCJ, collecting rents ami out
(lan'dfngclaim-iuany ol the UnitedS a<-es—
He flatters htmfoif, that from his Wg rcfidsnce 111
this'cou'itr.y and a general knowledge of ir, his (>r
cices will be fou:id st-ui'thy the n.) ice ot thola who
may plcale to conliJe to him the management of
any of their concerns.
s K- B. Security given where required.
Ilthmo 24 j.taw.f
D A N C I N G.
Mr. FRANCIS,
OF the New Theatie, r»fpedt.ully informs the
public, that he r.o '.aqger r-wans to continue
hi. Danciug School in coi'jur.ilion with Mr. Byrne,
but will open ir. feparateiy early ill December, and
hepesftill :o receive the accustomed patronage With
which he hhs been honored, and which it will be
his ccnftant endeavor to deserve.
5 Private parties may be inllru&cd at his own
hp'ufe, No. .70, north Eighth Greet.
noreniber eotf
Wants a place,
AS a Wet Nurfc, a young woman, who oan
bewell recoftmnended. Inquire in Eleventh
street, near Ract-ftreet. Nov. 27.
•eodi'w
A [ourneyman Hair-Dretfer,
WHO is sober and steady, and underftande
his bufineii, may have immediate em
: ployment, on application to GE<3UGE AB
-1 BCiTT, No. 9, Chef«ut-ftreet, nov-i 7.
codiw.
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, tne 20th
ind. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dallirt, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Sch'ylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
' ing and esaaii.ting in these, the # .ty of Walhing
-1 ton, No. 11. and Palerfon L»tteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had iu 1110 ft of the Lotte
ries authorifad by law in any of the States of the
I Union.
"N. B. The business of a Buoitsa, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Slock and Securities,
difcmintng Bills ajid Notes of Hand, falc of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wa, BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
N 1) T I C E7
TTIE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States, are informed that according to the
statute of Incorporation a genera! Election for
twenty five Directors will be held atthtljank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firft day of january next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
And ouffuaat to the Eleventh feflion of the
Bye Law* the Stockholders of th« said Bank
arts hereby notified to aflemble is general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
day of January next at live o'clock ill the E
vening.
By order of the Board of directors,
G. SIMPSON, Calhier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not inore than three fourths of tne Directors
i(i office, exclusive «f the Prelident, lhall be e-
Ugibje for the next luceeeding year, but the
Diretflorwlio (hall be President at the time afan
E|eiflion ilwa/ibe re-elefled.
Philadelphia, nov. tB. 1797. ftE
NOT J G E,
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAF's
and EDWARD FOX's Engagement!
IN confequcnce of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumftantu fr«ai
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Truflees now inform them, Ibey
are ready to iflue the Tame to those who may ap-.
ply within Gxtydays, at No. 8 Chcfnut Street,
and those who do not, will be ctfnfidercd as re
linqu'.fhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HEtfRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
nrvtmber, 23. tuth&fim.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M.De La GRANGE,
No. tio Walnur-ftreet,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recurto the only
means of becoming perfeS in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
lifting of upwards of 1150 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful inllru&ion, or plea
sure. The conditions, togethsr with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
tyi town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
English and Spanish Languages, exectted with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoim nov. tj-
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White PlattUlas
Brown Hollands
White Sheetings
Dowlafles
Silesia bsrdered Handkerchiefs
Striped Shmoufes
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glades, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennvck.
November 6. eod^w
FOR "SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chcfnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. a general assortment of Tools,
Giles and Materials, coafifting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and f«rge work j Bells, clock and watch DiaU,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Punice Stone, Emery,"
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, stand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Kfiys, &c. &c.
Apprentices Wanted.
November 3. f&tutf
The History of Pennsylvania,
Br ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the pvefs, and will be pirhlifhed,
with all convenient expedition, by 'Zhcha- .
RIAH PoulsoN, jun. N»r 80, Chelnut-ftrert, !
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propcfals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July rB. aawtf
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
che City—
OF rjRIOUS SIZES,
From 8 ny 6'to 19 by 1 4,
By the single Box or Quantify, may be had at the
ftorc of the Subscribers, c.ornei of Arch and Front
ftreu.
j'jmes C. y SamtelW. Ei/hcr.
Philadelphia, Juneg, 1797. <)lwmwftf
llicct,
James C. y Sarnud W. Fi'ilier,
AT Timix STOKE,
No. 13, corner of Arch and' Fro.it streets,
Hdf B FOR SAISy '
Cotton and worded iu tr.m!;s, afforjed
• A few Jjales red, white, and y>- lo'.v^f iainelj
Dittojfutt rotsall Hindkercl.i »
Ditto I'ultieit fiTk ditto
liitto Psndieherry and Madrafa ditto
Ditto Gunahs
Bengal Mack Tafietics
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
' Few chelis bell Hylon Tea
Alfa —1500 bojees belt, London Window Glass,
fcpm Bby6,to 19 by IJ hhds. Glass
Ware, which tfiey will dispose of cheaper
than asy it| the city.
novenilier <8 WVtf
Imported (via New York) the
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, an'd lor
sale fyy che fubferiber, at No. &I, Chel'i;ut tlreet,
and Tjiird Streets, the follow
ing arri.lt> .
Chareonna Dorcns
, C'Mntz aif'J Calicoes Dacca worked luuflins
Gittij Romali fsndaunoes
Killas &. Peufiafoes x Chafla Ram ah
Blue cletK Hair ribbon
_M ull Mullhankerchiefs Palempores
Patua do. Banares Opium
LeiTer Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
novemher 17 tut!i"4w
A farm for sale,
IN Perth Amboy in the state of New-Jersey,
of four kumlred i -res, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of. arable and wood
land, and fait marlh : There is on the premiles,
a good apple orchard; and a variety of other
fruit (frees, it is well wattred with fpvings and
brook?, it is bounded 011 two fides with navi
gable waters and has ajgood mill site, its situa
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
View of the navigation of Perth Amboy and its
environs, and tonvenient to the fineft £(h ?n<4
oyflers in their proper fealon, it abounds with
natural manure fr«m whit!i,,with the advanta
ges ot the fait marsh by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of flock, may at a
expense, he enriched to a great degree and ren
dered one of the firft grazing farms in the state ,
it is well Calculated for 3 farmer or a gentle
man's feat, having several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be told together or
divided,.'as may fyit a pnrchafer, at private
sale, or if npt'told, will be let up at public auc
tion on the nineteenth day of 1 .'ecem
ber next, at the house of Robert Ratlattie, inn
keeper in Perth at eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. Any pc&bn topurchale
rtwjCVif.v the premises by application to John
or Matthia: Halfted at Perth Amboy, from
whom or from the Hon. Johu./.an Dayton, F.fq.
fpeakrr us the house 1)f reprefeftutiv* of rile
United States now ill Philadelphia, from Mat
thins ff r or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabetli-Tomn further information may be
obtained,—and who are poflefild of maps of
the feme.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797.
i? —eodtißD
FOR SALE,
By the Su(jscri»er, at hU Store, No. 75, Sooth
Water-ttreet,
A general affortmsnt of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Lutefttisgs
Do. d». Handkerchiefs
Do. do. sewing Silks
Imperial a "d Hyson Teas
Long and (hart Naakeent
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Giti, in pipes
AiTorted Glass Were, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sogers, in boxes
Molafl'es, in hog<head«
St. Croix Hum end suga*, in do.
JLondon particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in qnart-r calks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, &c. &c.
>n. 7.—tuScf 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the S wedilh barque Guflavus AdoVphus, from
Marseilles, coTiflfting of the following articles,
is dilcharging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fubferibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 k 4th proof
Claret, in hogflieads
Ditto, in cales
Frontigr.iac Wine, in cases as 3obottl»s
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baskets of 6
and 1 a bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
D»y Verdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 18, 3c and 31-inches
Taffeties
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in itpitation of Madiafs
Artificial flowers and Garlands '
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum v
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.'
September 27. eotf
For Sale, by the Package,
For caihj or goodilotcs at sixty or ninety days,
viz.
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain Y
stripes, and Checks j , .. •
' , 1 t u j I Aflortfd in
do. do. 1 amboured f ,
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | P "^ cs "
gentlemen' 6 neck do. J
Jaconet chintz muffin for home and the Weft
India market, Puilicote and lir.en handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed dO.do. common purple and
chintz (hawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also .1 few fcotchparabricks and an
airortment of muslin by the piece.
ThS whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufacturers in Britain.
To be seen it Wilijam BiACK-bvrn's
Ofiic<e, No. 64, South Second Striet.
Nov. 6. aawtf.
—■ -
400,000 -weight of choice Srt. Do
mingo COFFEE,
FOR SALE BY
JAMES YARD. .
noveraher 12. diet
Walker 6c Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hogfheadj'of prime Georgia Tobaceo,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old POll Wine-
Oisl. 17. tawtf
For Sale,
7 hat tvillinotvn place, called
f »p Y, x
ON I'Jefiiarr.ißy cfeek, 18 miles from Phi!»-
on the New York polt road,
containing 74 acres ai>d 94 perches. Upon the.
premitei area Urge two ltory (lone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a one ltory Hone kit
chen, a larg;e frame liable with a good thnefhing
floor, an:.* some out buildings—also a welf of
good water, and an . excellrnt ice House. On
this place is a nio.leltj.int iituition for a gentle
man s ftit, commandUig'a vievv of the Nefham
iny to its junction A'iihthe Delawaie, and thence
acrol's to the Jerfcy (hurt. It" l.as the privilege
of one half the tolhx-ceived fron. the bridge.
For term's applv to the .bti,
MORDBCAI LEWIS.
Vay 24. juwtt.
ale dr to be let on ground- J
rent,
Lot of Ground y
SITUATE on the uorth-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth ftrects, froiiiiig the S'atf
House square. This left is fii'ty-pne feat fiont
on Wa'tiat Itreet, and dnehtwdred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth fl.eet ; there are at
present two small two llory brick honfes, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftorcs, wharf, &c. fituateon
Water-ltreet, between Mulberry and Safl'airat
llreets, containing in front on Water ftre-rt fif
ty-four feet, and Continuing that breadth eaft
wafd nine;y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen f;et fix inches. These houses.
ave the convenience of a public alky adjoining
on the fide, and are a very delirable litua
tion f'or a merchant, flour sailor.or others who
may have occasion for (tjragc of goods. This
property will be fold oh very reasonable terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer. . 7 »
July jr. m&wtf
Jtijl Publi/hed,
And to be hVi of Mefirs. Do\\fon, CampbelI 4 Ricc y ;
and the othtr pricipal Uookfcllcrg in t'ie
city,price one dolar, tvnt ty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the.
Tribes and Nations of America.
By IiENJ.\MIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June ao. M (jt
School Books and Stationary.
W. Y OTJ NG,
No. Serond-ftree*, «ornt-r of Chefnut-ftrect,
HAS now ready for sale, very largt: airort
ment of Engiyh % French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such eL-mentary bdo)ps
on Science, as are generally read in the academits
and collcgQs throughout the United Stater.
LATELY PUBLISHED, t «
Sheridan's Oidiouary, the fikth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. priced dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol. 75 ets.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. jocts. s
AU fortt of dwiwing, pr.cking, printing, and
writiog Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paileboards,
(heathing a»d blotting Papers ; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and 6ther articles, ©f
che belt quality, used in ti'.e counting house, or
public ofSce.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleAion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. 0&. 24. —3aw6w
The N orfol k~M a 11ST AG E.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Secuid and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, cvny TutfJay, Tiurflay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, ja the rrorniug; arrives at 1 lo
ver the firft day, ,at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court Hqule rhe third day, anil cu
the morning of the-fourth day -the paflengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
• Norfolk.. J
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fcirj-,
every Tucfday, Thurfiay a/id Saturday, and the
Snje starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday; puts up at Snow
Hill the firft •ight, at Dover tbe »d uijht,lind ar
rivevin Philadelphia in the evening of the tHird
day.
Thediftance nn this route, between Philadelphia
ani Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
wkiclv is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a ftagefor the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft n. dtm.eotf.
City of Walhington.
s che-m:e
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvcin»nl us the Federal City.
A magnificentriwelHng-houfe 10,000 dollars,
3: calh 30,000, are sO,OOO
1 ditto 15,000 &
1 ditto 15,000 Ht cash 15, oop 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & ca(h 10,000 >O,OOO
. 1 ditto s>ooo oc caiii 5,000 10,00 c
1 ditto 5,000 Sc cai 5,000 10,000
1 cadi prize of ' to,ooo
1 do. 5,000 each, ire • 10,000
10 d'J. 1,000 - - io,oqc
10 do. 500 - - 10.000
00 do. i f 'P - - 19,000
100 els." 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 15 - ■ 10,000
i,000.d0. 20 - lotifx
15,000 do. la - 158,000
15,7.3# Friies. f
J3,a6l Blsnka.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavonr thofewho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,!he prize of 40,ooodollars wjill be
the lost drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approvednotes, fecu*ing payment in either
moHty or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not lets than 30 tick
ets.
Tbis Lottery will afford an elegant fpeclmen of
the Private buildings to be ertited in the; City of
Walhington—.Two beautiful designs are alreaiiy
leleiSed for the entire front* on two of the public
squares; from these irawisijsit ispropofed to ereol
two Centre and c oHr corner hwildine >as foonaspof
fihleafterthis lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventunri, mi
the manner deferibed in the scheme f6r the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray thcneceffary c,\prnfes of prir:-
mg, &c. and the surplus will be made a part .of
the fund intended for fthe National Umverfity, to
be creeled within tile city of Wafiiingtos.
The real fecuritiesjjiven for the payment of the
Prises, are held byth ' President and two Diredt
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMORL ISLODGST.
,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weil & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilman, Boftrin : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry. mwf
R E MOV A L.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORM*; his friends and the public, that he
has rehtaved his Store of Qhina, Crhijs, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 8l North Se
, coiid, to No. 7/ North Sjventh Street, north east
cornt r of Cherry Alley, where he i'olicits the fa
vor of his former customers.
N. b k Crater put v.p with cace at the fliortell
notire.
noveniber z, dtf
Real lillate for Sale,
A PLANTATION, in a healthjr and good si
. tuition on Chester iu Middletoa
Delaware County, containing 119'-
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are , wood
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the. latter, many more
icres can hi made at a small eipence. There are.
on iaid.premiles, n good orchard of heft grafted
fruit 1 , a iioufe, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with tlabling under, atid a log tenement ou
on;jvjrtof said place Any person inclining
to may view the premises by applying
to 'Wu, Pknnbll, on said farm, and know the
triiis by apfdyingto Jonaiuan Pt.n n cll, ia the
to rough of CtcHer.
Bnovsmher a. - 3t eod
Philadelphia, 03. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their friends and custo
mers in town and country,that their stores are now
open in the city, and othersare a4'y opening, and
that from the present app.eacance of the prevailing
d'.lorder have reason to hope, their friends may
ihorrly coTie to the city with perfed faf ty. By
leveral late arrivals, r.ur.iburs have receiveii freftt
supplies of GOODS. 1
Robert Smith & Co. P. W. Gallaudet & Co)
Jobn poi>is Co. Sitgrea-vej fe? French,
Nei.'l lif Smith, George Dob/on,
IVililerger and Sjnithj : I boiitaj Ryer/oti,
Alex Hi {far d and Co. T. K. 1 'ardinberg.
' tuob iferry and Co. John Smith and Co•
Owen <j Jo/ni. Jotui, Tbumas Orr,
Keppelc iSf Zantzi/tgcr, If'iUiam
Adam '/.intzitger, JThomeis Armat C? Sin.
'Joun Fries, J. Militr, jun. and Cs.
Bcrjani'm JoLnJon.
Oft. 14 j * \
POYNTELL's "
Pjper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-flreet, '
IVhere he has for Stile,
A VERY extensive of every* colour > a&i
of the molt approved patterns, iurtable |or
every pan of a haufe, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
—ALSO —
A handsome assortment of the moUt falhioca6lc
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and.
very heft plain Green and Blue,
With Pamiel Papers an<f a'rjch variety of Bof(ftrs,
November t. eo6t
Tor'sale,
A Team of five excellent Horses,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Hori'es »re alt
young, strong, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling- as great a weight as inok in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are Itrong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEK,
Weft Town, Chester county, or? to
Thomas Fijher
No. 142, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
it mo. 2, fp^w.
Imported in tbe'lhip Man chested,
Benjamin Shevei-i., Master,
From BourJeaux, and for laic by the I'uUfcribW,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeatix Brandy "J
Irish market claret in cases / Entitled to
Medocwme, in do. f Drawback.
Sauteruc, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherfy Wine in pipes and quartiw caflis
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 buftiels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
Peale's MuseuM.
THIS valuable repository of the worlts'of Ma
ture, so well calculated to Relight the tniud
and enlarge the underfi'anding, is opened daily, as
usual. Ii Oapds in an airy and healthy Qtuation,
aqd froe from the epidemic that, at preffeht affliils
tiie city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
tjhe greatell fafety.
As an Ai.iufcmept, the fludy of Nkture is the
mod rational and plcaling : as a Science, the most
fuhlime and inflru&ivc. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. * They
" Whom Nature''t "works can charm, iditb God bimfcf
" Hold confer J:,"'
iny additions have lately been
made to this Mul'euna : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the molt rare and beautiful
fubjeels,. is now very advantageously arranged.
Wuxtn Figures, of Hen large as life (foipe of them
cafifl from nature) are here drefTed in their propdr
habits, and placed :n attitudes of their
refpe&ive nations. may be fecn the
Ar.ierican Savage, and the lavage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chiuefe, and the Chinese Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfthadale—
wish some Natives of the South Sea lllands. The
immense variety and interelling diversity whiti>
this Museum offers to the view, may hefwn but
«annot-be described with full
jJ5* Price only I-4th of a dollar.
beyt. 2,8. law
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 3 10, High-Street.
GEORGE DAV IS,
BEING buCed for f. me titiie fafi in prcpara.
tions for removing into his prtlent houf,-, has
been nnilertheiifcelTjtyof poftp<>niogui>tU. Ais day
infurmir.gthegentl'enisii of the Bar generally thro'
the limited State*, that his fprinjr importation of
law books is now am) ready for icilc, on
terms that he trusts will sivdtkhim to thfrlibe pri
freence he has e.xperiep,ced for ieveral years pall.
Catalogues, combining the collie '
tion ever imported this cbwrliry, as t printed
and will he delivered on application.
June 2.7. law
Bolton (JlaiS' Manufadory.
'T"'HE cit.zfns of the llwted States are hereby
, I. iiifornied, that til- m*nufa&isre of Window
(JJafs is Bow conimsßtedit the Giafi!,Houfein:Bof-
It is oee;!!:ft to fay rmy thing of the escellei*
quality of the I'cXton pl'.U, ask iifoweil known
throus'hout the United States to he in every refpeA
greatly superior to anv ever importeJ from Europe.
\i will fee cut, to any size commonly used ; and
roayV cortftantly had by applying tuCBAHi.ES T.
KutFiß, at the <ilals House. .
Orders from the distant States to he (uJdrefTtdto
Mr. SA.vfOEL <Jore, Court-ftrect, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30', 1797 O^—uwiw
M'Jfrs. Timothy am! Mafan, Cbarkjlen ; Mrtfrs.
Ifafyi arid Boylan, Halifax, N. C. Mfjit, WillHt
and/)'Ccnmr, Norftlk ; Mr. SUU Pr>c:, Alexandria ;
M'Jfrs.TunJtVnd Bmvn, Balt'wicrc ; Mr. Hotiirr
ffiw-Tork ; and J\ttfrs. Itud/ia Ij Cuihvin. Hart
fort! i Mr.~Scymc& , Szvcnnab ; as: ii-quejled to ttjl 11
the akve once a iveck 6 tiw/j. Icc t§ be <„> -
XOardt tlcMJiUr.