of $e «® Philadelphia Batty Advertiser.
Numbea 1505.3
For SAVANNAH,
jrskrt Tht Ship
Swift Packet,
\TOW lying at Wilcock's wharf;
, IN a regular trader, and well ac
commodated for pilTervgers will fail on Satur
day, Bth iaft. For freight or passage, apply to
the matter on board, or
N. £9* J. Frazicr,
1 Ne.96, South Front-street.
vi ho have for file, received by tbe said ship,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces.
July 1. dtf
For Hamburgh,
£rX">"V .THE SHI P
PENNSYLVANIA)
«&S££a>L David Williamson, Matter, /
yiNG at Wilting's wharf—(he is now ready to
take in, and will fail in 10 days. For terms
( of frejght or passage,. apply to
Gurney & Smith.
fiaie 28.
For Sale,
jßsSfcj. The fine and remarkably fall
~ failing Schooner
Virginia and Philadelphia
Burthen about 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rofs & Sim/on.
jwe i?. dtf
The Shareholders
'Jj the Pmnfylvania Population Company,
A HE requested to meet at the Company's Of
fice, No. 53, North Fourth Street, on Saturday
the 15th infl. at Ii o'clock.
By order of the Board,
SOLOMON MAH ACHE, Sec'ry/
_ J"'y i- fi6t.
Bank of North America.
July 1, 1797-
•At a meeting of the Directors this 'day, a di
>.d<-ad of Srn Per Cxnt. was declared for the
iaSi half year, which will b« paid to the Stock
holders or their representatives, at any time af
ief the lotk inft.
jjjily 1. ■ daw.
A Goachee and Chair,
"■ir hire, or sale, without horfes—tbe harness
CC pleat.
Enquire at No. 103, Arch Street.
J"'y «• »t.
George Dobfon,
No, 9 5 South Third-Street,
| 1" AS imported per (hips William Penn, Star,
-ly A and Diana, from London,
j -4 Super Ltndon Chintz, elegant patterni,
| (iinghams, Muflinetts and Dimities.
Mlhionable Waiftcoating, newest patterns.
_Khband« well alTorted, in finaH trunks.
% ■ j "4- and 0-4 India and Britlfii Book-muf
lin.c
1 rncy Cloaths and Caflimers.
h» whole.tp be disposed of cheap for.Cafh
' :l approved Notes of a (hort date.
t June I4> *97. d-tf. ,
For Sale,
7 h)' cargo of the brig Enlerprize, Captain
'.angdon from Bourdeartx, now landing at
Morton't -wharf,
CON SI TING OV
ij«4 hhds. of Claret "J 2 •
11; cases of ditto j -a
ioo cases of Swvet Oil !> -r ■?
no pipes London proof ) brandy 'S J
Jr pipes ©f Holland proof ) j W -o
AfiP ' yt ? e-s r
Wharton cr Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
Jk,£§Sv|~ WILL take a FREIGHT for
'he Weft-Indies or Europe,fails
V'lj burtlten *bout fifteen hun-
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be roady to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
_May 24 __
Ilealth-O/Jice, Philadelphia, "]th June, 1797.
<npHE Hoard tf Hemltis ofFer to rent <uit the NEW
1 CITY HOSPITAL, usually called The Wig
icam.
It maybe occupied as a Tavern, for which there
r* excellent accommodations. The person taking
t mufl be capable and willing to ail in the capaci
y of a Steward ; iu cafe a contagcous difeaie in
he eity, should at any time render it necefTary to
make ufc of the premises as a Hospital. It cannot
therefore b« let for any limited time—and the red
painted frame huilding is to be referred. Proptfah
in writing will be received at this office until the
4th of July,ftatiag what rent will be allowed un
der the foregoing circumflanees. None need apply
without being able to produce the belt recommend
jtions. JOHN MILLER, J„n.
June »7 §7t] Chairman of the Beard of Health.
An afiortment ot Russia Cordage,
AMONGST which are three cables,one of u,
one of 10 I-4, and the otter 7 i-» inches,
and each 110 fathoms long
Boflon Sail Duck, No's. J, », 3. and 4
Bourbon Cotton, of a very superior quality
Ditto Coffee in bags *
Jfle of France Indigo
A few bales well alforted India Muffins
S,iermacsti Oil
Ditto Candles
Eofton Beef, prime and mess
Codfift in heglhtads and tierces
I Ditto in quintals
Mackarcl in barrels
Herrings in ditto
4th proof Brandy, and
A few kegs of Lard
ALSO,
Tuft landingirom on board the Active, from Ham
burgh,
joby IS, 8 by I®, and 9 by 12 German Win
view Glass, and a few boxes assorted Dutch Glass
Ware, for sale by
Joseph Anthony & Co.
| one 17 , . .
For Sale,
T'HE time of a Mulatto Man, who has about 6
I years to serve, undctftands the esre of Horf
e« «d is a good waiter. '
Inquire of the Printer.
Tunc 26. §lw
PHILADELPHIA:
Beji Englijh Crown Window Glass.
A well affortiflyinvoice of the bed Bnglifh Cre wn
W indo w Glass, of the following sizes:
10 by 8 ■)
11 by o
t/ • *
13 by 10
14 by ro p box 5.5.
16 by II
19 by 14 J •
Likewise frefli Rice, high proof Brandy, best
mess Beef in half barrels.
Sail Cloth, No. I. to 8.
Sherry Wine.
A few hundred weight of excellent Dutch Pistol
, and Rifle Gun Powder—and,
Thirty Boxes Chocolate.
For Sale by,
Samuel Bred, Jun.
No. 89, South Third-Jlreet.
J une «• coiot.
NOTICE.
THE fubferiber having sent by the ship Nancy, j
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank flock, to wit :
No. a6,oej, to 26,014, inclusive, for three
shares each—and the said vessel having been cap- !
tured on her intended voyage to England, which
• will moll probably occasion the loss of the said
certificates, gives this public notice,
That he shall apply at the proper officos for a re
newal of then, and that means have been taken
to prevent any improper transfer.
Henry Philips,
No. 1T 2, South Front-street.
June I. 3aw6w
Received by the fndoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice consisting of the following
Coal! Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firir
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins
WILLING FRANCIS.
March >7. law
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST fc ad proof,
Gin, of 4th pr«of, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different 11 Me
Hazleniits, in frek*
Whiting
Copperas ( . , , ,
White Lead T IBl,hd,
it Spanilh Brown J
For Sale by
PETBR BLIGHT.
January 4 j.
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes*
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chests best
Fresh HvTon and } . „
Hylon Skin { TEAS
Mufcovatlo Sugars in Hogfbeads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. ||tf
Erlkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By, ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second Ilreet,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Confluen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May rj §
GABRIEL DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
Megj leave to inform the public that be baj re*
moved bis Shop to J\o. 31, South Third Ilreet,
AND HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
(Neatly boundand lettered, price a dols. 25 cts.)
Ibe Advent arcs of Tdemachus.
French and Englilh, t vols. umo.
AMONG the books which daily fall isto the
hands of the youth of both sexes, none
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele
machus. The most interesting leflons are here
conveyed in the vehicle of an mterefting Poem,
replete with the fineft touches of the true pa
thetic, and embelifhed with all the graces of a
beautiful flyle. The fatal effeifts ot indulging
the pafflans are exemplified in the most linking
manner ; and the happiness attending inno
cence and virtue painted in the liveliest cnlours. '
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice ; whatever can enlighten the underftand
inp, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interesting work.
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Dictionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all the countries and ifl
andsin the known world ; showing their lati
ude, foundings, aod stations for anchorage ;
with a particular description ofthefeveralßavs,
Capes, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, -Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads,- Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the lhape and appearance at sea, of the feva
ral Headlands, Iflhmufes, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, and whatever is of use or impor
tance to the Miller, Pilot, Commander, or
Seaman of any fbip or vessel, !n navigating the
watery element.
1 Also Comprehending
Ample Direiliotrs for tailing into or out of the
different Potts, Strait?, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding"
dangers on the v»riou« and extended cnafls ; in
whieh more than twelvethouland diftiuft names
of places, afe treated of and explained. With
a corretf set of Charts, 1 vols, Svo. price.6 dols.
My the Hey. JOHN MALIIAM,
£? This has been pronounced the moll ufe
ful and the cheapo bookpublilhed in America.
June-ai. dtf.
By John Fen no, N° up Chef nut Street.
The Comniiflioners
IT 0R carrying into efF«<a the ftsth srticle of the
i an, ' t y.commerce 4"d navigation, con
cluded between his Britannic the United
States of America, on the 19c 1 duy'of November,
1.794. having this day constituted their Board,
pyrfuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here-'
by give notice, that they are ready < « ui to
bulinefs accordingly; tmdth. y desire tliat allcl.uin,
under the said article-(which' so far as the fa'me<le-*
scribes the cases thereby provided.for, is horeunto
annexed) may be lodged withtheir Secretary with
out d-Ujy. !
They further desire that aU such claims may not
oniy state in what manner the several cases come
within the description of the said article, but also
specially set forth ehe nature of the evidence by
which the claimants rifpe&ively undertake to iab
ftantiate the fame.
Extraift from the said article,
Whereas it is alledged by divers British nier
" chants, and others his majeftyV fubjeSs, that
" debts to a confidcrable amount, wlfich were bona
" fide contrailed, before the peace, still remain
" owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of the
United States; and that by the operation of va
" rious lawful impediments, fmce the peace, not
1 " only the full recovery of the said debts has been
u delayed, but also the value and security thereof.
" have been in several instances impaired and less
" ened, so that by the ordinary ceurfe of judicial
; i tl proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
" obtain and aftuajly have anu receive full and
" adequate compensation for the losses and dama
" ges which tney have thereby fuf ained: It is a
greod that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tio» for such losses and damages cannot for wb»t-
ever reason be adu«lly obtained, had and recei
" ve d by the Taiol creditors in (he ordinary courfa
" of justice, the United States will make full and
complete compensation for the fame to the (aid
41 creditors : but it is diftinfUy undrrftood, that
" this provision is to extend to such loiles only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
" aforelaid, and is not to extend to losses occasion
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" existed ; nor to such losses or damages is have.
" been occasioned by the manifeft delay, ornegli
*• tencc, Of wilful omifhon of the claimant."
% By order of the Boar J,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secret/try.
Philadelphia, Commiflioncrs' Office,
No. 3 south Sixth-street, May 19,
'797- J 6—s t m
i'Hh aUJJbCRI&JfcjI having been appointed by
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
for aflifting British creditors, and such particular a
gents as they may specially authorize, in profecnting
their claims before the cammiffioners for carrying in
to effeft the sixth article of the Treaty of /baity. Com
merce and Navigation between his Britannic tfajtjiy and
the United States tf America, hereby gives not ice that
he has opened his office at his houle the south east
corner of Chcfnut and fifth streets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or inflruaions
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forwatd the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
*nd 2> it will be for the mitre# ot all concerned, .
that the several claims be so fhted, and iuppor..
Ed, as to prevent the delay which would ante from
the oecefTityof obtaining iurther information, or ad- I 5
ditional materials, irom persons residing at a diftancc,
the general agent thinks it bis duty t <fadd, (for the
direction chiefly of thofc, who, not having employ- 1
ed particular agents, may leave the .profcculion of »
their claims to his charge and management) that all \
such claims ought in particular to set forth— <
\([. The proper description and fitnation of the | j
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpoft- i
lvely. { {
td. The date or nature of the oiiginal contract Ci j |
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent, ( !
the creditor or claimant prevented or impeded, ; j
by the provision, operation or defeat of law, the
decisions and pra&ice of courts, or reftiaint of axe- j
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
question* 1
4th. The loss and damage incurred or fuftained,j
in confequcnce of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the inlolveney, change of'
fituatton, or death of the debtor, the tola ot legal
remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufes impairing
the value and security of the debt, which would not»
have so operated if such impediments had not existed.'
And sth The particular grounds and reafom on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that •• by the ordinary course of judicial pro- ..
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually J
have and receive full and adequate compenfatiou" for
the lodes and damages so foAaiucd.
The general agent thinks it his*duty further to fug- < j
geft that the several claims ought to be accompanied .
and fuppoued by the affidavits of the claimants duly 1
sworn and regularly attefled, both as to the cxiftence
of the debts claimed, and such other circumstances I
as may be within their own knowledge relpe&ively. f
And wherever the claimants in Rating the nature of t
their evidence (which must in every instance be the f
bed of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to e
refer 10 the eellimouy of witnesses, it will be proper (
to.apprise the general agent of the names and places r
of relidence of such witnesses and the faftsto be cfta
blifhcd by their teftimnny.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth, 1797. dim ,
John Miller, jun. & Co. -
Have received per the India, Afhmead, from
Calcutta,
A well assorted small Invoice of 1
Gurrahs
Baftas
Coffaes '
Calicoes
Bengal Stripes
Laid in remarkably low, which they will fell for
cash or short credit on vtry advantageous terms.
June j. awfri4t
Muftcal Injlrument Manufactory y
No. 167, Arth-Street. j
HARPER, harpftthord, grand, portable grand,, |
fid aboard, pier table and square piano forte > .
maktr from hendon, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement, £
and hopes that by hisaffiduity and attention to ev- a
ery branch of his business, to merit J continuance (
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the new eft f
and mofl approved plans, with pedals, patent, ;
swell, and French hai-p flop, which hsflatteis c
himfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced v
judges, to be equal if not superior to anyimport- r
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any itiflru [
msnt purchased of him, if rait approved dl in t
twelve months, he will exchange. ,
N. B. All kinds of Muficsl instruments made,
tuned, and repaired with the grtateft accuracy,
difpatth, and on the most reasonable terms, lir
ready money only. 1
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchangt.
May »e. at»eo.
THURSDAY EVENING, JULT C, 1797.
LANDING
From cm board fchotmcr Daphne, captaia
; 1 * G. W. Morse, from Htfpaniola,
I 61,00® wt. Sn^ar,
, 53,000 Coffee
> FOR SikLE BY
F. COPPINQER,
' No. 321. South Front-flrect,
Who ha? also on fiand,
. Claret in hhds. and cases
Rice
A quantity of Bristol Bottles
A cafe of Cambrics
Cloths and Caffimeres.
July 5. d6t.
FOR sale;
BRETAGNES in cases
German Checks in do.
Cambriclt
PlaMillaj
Oznabrigs
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by
Glass Tumblers in cases
linseed Oil in calks, &c, &c.
f; George Pen nod,
103, High-Strut.
July S- 3»w
Bank of United States.
3d July, 1797.
THE Direflor- havs this day declared a divi
dend of Sixteen Dollars on each lhare for the last
fix months; wh'rh' will be pa'id to the Stockhold
ers alter the rgth inft.
G. SIMPSON, Cajhief
NOTICE.
ANY of the citizens who may be inclined to ac
commodate Vlembers of Congress with bsard
and lodging during the nextfeffion, willpieafe
to forward their address, as foon.aspoffible, to the
fiihfcriber, at Congress Hall—Who also wifhesto
hear of some ready furnilhed lodgings, with the
use of a ki chex. Likewise of a front drawing
room, well furnilhed, and two good bed rooms,
with board for a small family, in which there will
be two servants. THOMAS CLAXTON.
_July 3- 3t
WALKER Ssf KENNEDY,
No. 73, South Front Street,
Have for Sale,
Virginia Tobacco, of the Richmond infpec
tien
350 bbls. Virginia Flour and Middlings
500 bushels Wheat
j calks Ginfang.
ALSO,
Three cafe 9 Rouens Linens, entitled to the
drawback
200 pieces Bandannoes, and
loocadies India Sewing Silk.
June 15. thsw^t
The Commiflioners
FOR carrying into effeft the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, Limits,
and Navigation, betwean His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby givein
fsrmation to all Persons therein concerned, —That,
in order to terminate all differences, on account of
the losses sustained by the Citizens of the United
States, in consequence of their Vessels and Car
goes having bren taken by the Subjects of His Catli
olic Majesty, during, the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
hy the said Article, during Eightzkn Montus
from the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as «ome before
them, jnoatb or alfirmaticn, touching the com
plamts in question, aud also to receive in evidence,
all written teftimory, authenticated in such man
ner as they ihall thiak proper to require or admit.
By Order of tie CommiJJioners,
PETER LOHRA,
, Secretary.
C mmiffieneri Offer, Aa. 109, Mulberry
red, Philadelphia, May ijth, 1797.
ao—i4W
COLUMBIA HOUSE ~
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBKIDGE with much pleaf
ureand returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(lie has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline -her
school, she ha 3 made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpeflive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- Jiraftf
The Gtuatien is perfeiSly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houTe.
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Havefor sale at theirflore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer £s* Son, Pinerflreet Wharf,
A Quantity of
Madeira Wines
In pipes and half pipes
adeira Walnutsand Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Also,
15 Puncheons, second and third proof, Weft-
India Rum, and a fewPtpes of Brandy
They have constantly on hand and for sale, ]
French Burr and Country Mil! Stones of various
sizes, and a general assortment of Soultivg Cloths of
the best quality, both American and Foreign ma
nufacture. The former having proved, from se
veral years experience of a number of millers in
different prjts of the United Statis at least equal,
and in many ia(lances superior to the European
Cloths, we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw
f»o, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain- (
ed a patent and exclusive right of making and (
vending Boutling Cloths on his improved plan for a (
number of years, and they are fold only by him- >
felf in Lancafttr, flute of as4 by ,
the fubferibert in Fhiiurfelphia.
June 14 d
For Sale, 1
THE time of a (mart, adlive Negro Boy, wl.p
has about iixtecn years t® serve.
Apply to th/Trinter. j
June IQ. &5t
FOR SALE,
By Simon Walker,
' No. 122, South Fourth-Street^
GOLD and silver Watches
Shot, common and patent /
Tin Plates, Sheet Iron
Fkr and sheet Lead
Copper ftiects and bottoms
Taunton- Ate . , Tt . ,
s Ravens Duck -
-Hats in cases
Wool Cards
Claret Wine and Porter "Bottles in haihpers*
J p| r coixv
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coftae of firft quality
ioo half sacks do. do. ,
a few Boxssof Spices, consisting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For fate by
KILLINGS isf FRANCIS,
Eentwftreet.
Ma y 30 dtf
Now Landing,
i i Jit Pratt's zv barf,
FROM on board the ship Thomas Chilkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourjieaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases ' i
White Wine Vinegar
Ked Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundk Sff Leech.
May I* -. .
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF rsIRIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to J9 by 14,
By the Tingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
Siore of the Subfcriberj, corner of Arch and Front
ftreet.
James C. Ess Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia,-June 9, >797.
To be Sold,.
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
SITU >TE at the north-east corner of Areh and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every frefpeiS well finiflied. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 13-8, Chefirot-ftreet.
_ M »y g». f
Just Imported,
In the ship Rebecca, from St. Croix,
Prime Sugar and Rum
4C,a00 wt. of Windward Island Coffee
A quantity of choice Madeira Wine.
James Tard y
South fide Walnut street Wharf.
June »7. d6t
ELEGANTnewFURNITURE
NOW Selling off Cheap, Confifling ©f
Side-boards, commode, frQnt, and sash
corner card tables, circular and square do.
circular and square bureaus, defies and chairs
of the very newest fafhion, bedsteads, arid
two very complete secretaries, and book-cas
es. The above articles may be had on ad
vantageous terms, as the owner is about de
clining the business. Persons wishing to
purchase are desired to apply immediately,
in Second a few doors above Walnut Street,
direftly opposite the city tavern.
June 27. - *d3t.
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship A&ive, Capt. Bx. air, from
Hamburgh,
so bales white Rufiia clean Hemp
% calks Clover Seed
Frfr Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer, ,
North Fifth street, No. 14.
June 16. S
Dispute between the United States
apd France.
This day is published, by Thomas Bradford, No.
8, South Front street, price 3/4,
OBSERVATIONS on the diipute between the
United States and France, addrtfled by Ro
bert Goodloe Harper, of South Carolina, to his
constituents. June 26 §6t
For Sale,
That well known J>lace, called Fjlndegrift's
nu Y,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ltory stone house occu
pied as a a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threfhing
floor,, and some out b'tildings—alfo a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a moil elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view ps the Nefham
iny to its jun<3ion wiih the Delaware, and thence
acroft to the Jersey fliore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sabferiber,
MORDECAI, LEWIS.
Vay 44.
This Day is Publilhed,
BY Me&.Dobfofi, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other BocrfcfeHers,
rice One Ddilar and twenty-five cent*,
Elegant >j printed on Wove paper, and Hot
prejjed,
By John Thoropfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEWOF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and With
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the promineot features of eaeh Constitution, and
clafiing together their most impertant provisions,
under the several heads of admiaiftration j with
Note* and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Sotith-Cartilina,
L L. D, and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
p'ef, at 3-4thsaf a dollar.
FctrOsry 6 tr.v.'S
[Tolvme XII.w
•-C
Xjft
PHILADELPHIA,
Thursday EVOKING, y«s 1
so r//£ public.
HAVINCj seen with great furprlze in
forie of the public newspapers an' attack
upon my judicial character, signed with the
name of Mr, Cabell, a member of Con
gress, I think it proper to take some notice
of it, on account of a riiidake in point of
faft which he seems to have committed.—
From the tenor of his obfervat;ions, any
one would conclude lhat I wrote the charge
he condemns vvh a view to draw forth a
censure upon him or some other members of
Congrels who had written circular letters
to their ddndituents. The truth is, I never
knew that Mr. Cabell had writteri any
circular letter at all, until I heard the pre
sentment read in Court, nor have I seen the
letter alluded tQ to this hour. I had in
deed seen printed letters of one or two other
members of Congress from the fame State,
but had them not in my thoughts when I
prepared that charge, which I wrote delibe
rately in Philadelphia, in order to be deli
vered in Maryland and Virginia. The fame
fcharge was delivered fubdantially in both
States, and without a view to any particu
lar person. With regard to the sentiments
of that charge, I am ready on all proper oc
casions to vindicate every word of it, as well
as the propriety of delivering such a charge
on fiich ari occasion. In the mean time, I
have a right to expect, that if the charge be
censured, it shall be censured for what it re
ally contains, and hot for what exiits merely
in the imagination of the cenfurei". I have
Do hesitation in faying, that if it has the
tendency Mr. CabelL ascribes to it, it does,
ia my opinion, deserve a severer censure than
any he has bellowed upon it.
The conduct of the Court after the pre
ferment has incurred Mr. Cabell's cen
sure. It is difficult to fay what can escape
it, if theconduftof the Court on that occa
sion cannot. They knew not such a pre
ferment was in contemplation. It was
brought into CoUrt the fame day that the
charge was delivered, and without any ad
journment having taken place, and agreeable
to the usual practice, I presume, in Virgi
nia, (though different from that in forae
otbei* States) was read by the Clerk-with
out even being seen by the Court. None of
the circular letters which were the objeft of
the presentment was produced to the Court,
nor in poffeflion of the Judges. The Jury
were aiked if they had any business to re
quire t?.eir attention longer, or if they wish
ed to flay to coftfider of any. They an
swered in the negative. The Attorney for
the United States was asked if he wished
them to be detained longer. He declared
he knew of no occasion for it. They were
then discharged. Were the Court to cate
chise the Jury for their censure of a publi
cation which they themselves had'never seen?
Or to direst a prosecution upon a publica
tion without knowing the contents of it ?
Ought they in any indance indeed to direst
a prosecution in the presence of the Attor
ney, within whose particular department it
lies, and when no occasion calls for their
immediate interposition ? Were they to in
terfere unnecessarily, they might justly be
charged with becoming parties to a prose
cution and incapacitating themselves from
the impartial conduft of Judges afterwards.
Whatever might be the intention of the
Jury, which was composed of very respec
table men, it has been a frequent praftice in
some of the southern States for Grand Ju
ries to present what they considered as grie
vances though they could not be the foun
dation of a Criminal prosecution in the
Court. I have known such presentments
containing very heavy charges against the
Government itfelf. It never occurred to
me to be proper to suppress a praftice which
I found established, whether the exercise of
it was agrjeable to my private sentiments. or
not; and I incline to think, had the Grand
Jury at Richmond, inilead of presenting
those circular letters, presented any obnoxi
ous aft of the Government, and the Court
by an exertion of power had arbitrarily sup
pressed the presentment, it would have been
the fubjeft of a very virulent—and poflibly
a very juft—inveftive,by some of those per
sons who have no scruple in condemning the
Court for not interfering with this.
With regard to the illiberal epithets Mr.
Cabell hasbeftowed, not only on me, but
on the other Judges of the Supreme Court,
I leave him in full poffeflion of all thf cre
dit he can derive from the use of them. I
defy him or any man to shew, that in the
exercise of my judicial charafter, I have
been ever influenced in the flighted degree
be any man, either in or out of office, and
I assure him I shall be as little influenced by
this mode of attack by a member of Con
gress as I can be by any other.
JAMES IREDELL.
Edenton, North Carolina,
June 2IJ, 1797.
Those Printers who have published Mr.
Cabfll's observations are requeficd to publijh
the above.
Extraft of a letter from D<jftor Samuel H.
P. Lee, Member of the Connefticiit
Medical Society to Elijah Perkins, M. D.
of Philadelphia, dated New London,
June 16th, ,1797.
In the course of my praftice with Doftor
Perkins's Patent Mefellic Instruments, a
very extraordinary cafe of Aerpes Exedens,
or what is commonly called, salt Rheum, or
Tetter, came under my notice, and as the
points wholly perfefted the cure, I will give
you a short hidory of the complaint, as it had
appeared during near 14 years. Mr.E.F. Inn
keeper,in my neighbourhood, applied to me
for relief some time lad February, I found
him fitting in an easy chair, cloathed in a
loose gOwn, and apparently exhausted for
want of deep' and reft. He informed me
that he h?.d not been able to lay in bed, or
wear any other cloaths than i'aofe liar,en for
neat three months,. that his disorder raged
most during the winter months, that his
drength failed Turn, his appetite bad, and
that he had nearly despaired ever recovering
From this recurrence of his complaint. On
examining the fitrface of his body, it was
one continued ulcer ; the breaking out of
the Rheum was followed by a copious dis
charge of bloody sanies, Which colleftihg
ind adhering to the furface of his body be
came of a fc »jby like appearance, and by
their irritation produced a colieftion of pu
rulent matter. The superior extremities,
the head, neck and bread were incurdated
entirely with scabs, and inflamed fores, some
of the Glands greatly swelled and very pain
ful ; the legs and feet swelled and ulcerated.
Fife informed me that this was the condition
he had been in for several years, but never
i before so bad as now, that it disappeared in
hot Weather so that he was- tolerably com
fortable ; and that he had been attended by
many physicians to no effeft. Seeing no
great profpeft of relieving him by medicines
; I was determined to try the Points, think
ing they might at lead relieve the pains and
1 inflammatory affection of the (kin, and ac
-1 cordingly used them myfelf, or had them
; ufedtwo or three hoursinceffantly, by which
' time he found himfelf so much relieved, he
! wished to continue the praftice—a lad was
ordered to use them three or four times a
day ; he grew better, the inflammation sub
sided, and the wounds all began to digest
and heal, the scabs fell off, and left,the fkm
entire, though very delicate and tender. In
4 or 5 days he walked and in four weeks
was perfeftly well and drong, had an in
creasing appetite, and undertook business,
' which he had neglefted for many years. It
; is proper to observe thatin the course of this
I praftice he took every three or four days a
i solution of Salts and Manna to remove cof
tivenefs, but no other kind of medicines
whatever as I wasdetermined to seethe effeft
of the points in so extraordinary and obdi
nate a difrafe. I have used the points in
many 9ther obdinate cases, and have found
them to conquer the complaint'by a close
perseverance in the operation, and am con
vinced that the failures, which have accom
panied this ufeful praftice, and which have
naturally shaken the confidence of many who
have given them but a partial trial, have
proceeded from their negleft in this particu
lar—the man is now very healthy, and no
i appearance of complaint about him. I have
in many indances used the points in ulcerous
fore legs, and cedlematous swelling, with
good success ; they evidently remove the in
flammatory disposition and leave the dedroy
ed parts capable of healing without the
trouble of tedious dreflings—l have had one
cafe of deafnefs in a gentleman about 75
years of age, very much relieved by the use
of the points.
WALPOLE, (N. H.) Jane 19.
As a convincing proof of the aversion enter
tertained by the Emperor of Raffia against fedi
tioii* and jacobinical principles, a cenforlbip of
literature has been established at Riga; and all
■prohibited book', are immediately c»rr.m';» d to
the flame*. Notwithstanding the common pa
triotic rant on the liberty of the prefa, we are
positive that if all works, like the poems of Ro
cbefter, the Common Sense of Tom Paine, and
the cflayi of Honeflus felt the rigour ef an Em
peror, and sustained the fiery trial, which the cu.
rate and barber of Cervantes might impose, this
world of ours would roll with much less fric
tion, than at present.
In France, Abbe Sieyes, the political metaphy
sician, ha*been attacked, by a desperado, proba
bly an cnthuGaft of liberty; and dangerously
wounded. Three pistol balls fired at a retired
man of letters, for writing on topics of govern
ment, graduate, pretty exatflly, the state of free
dom among the French usurpers.
The brilliancy of Buonaparte's viilories can
not enliven the heavy gloom of the Republic.
The inflaved people, driven like wrecks, down
the rough tide of power, and compelled to con
tent themselves with the nomen dulce libertatis,
while the reality is monopolized by an infer
nal oligarchy,—continually cry with one ac
cord, " Oh! the fierce wretchedness that glory
brings us." Her present policy is but for a mo
ment ; it will prove
" Brief, as the lightning, in the ccllied night "
Some daring soldier of her armies will grasp su
preme power, and whether saluted Caesar or
King, his little finger will be thicker than Lou-
B's loins.
It is said Buonaparte in the flufli of viflory
refpe&ed the little village of Poteoli, the natal
spot of Virgil. At the feet of the Muses, even
the Mars of France is Hercules at the Court of
Onphate.
June 26. ' .
PRESBYTERIAN COMFORT.
A witty democrat, deploring the fate of
Mr. Livingdone, neglefted by the house,
and mal-treated by Porcupine, in spite of
eloquence and apt allusion to
applies to the New-York orator a fragment
from Dr. Watts : •
" See what a Living-done
The Builders did refufe !"
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The elegant translator of the dedication
of " The Arab family" is thanked for his
pure version, and his private patronage. We
shall be mod happy if he will make his clas
sical deposits in the Museum.—Communi
cations from Connecticut are always solid
and shining : the gold of that land is good.
The tender verles of Myra shall appear.
A pious offering to the domedic charities
would disarm criticism, even if the fair au
thor hatl made that offering incorreftly.
Monsieur Rig<)doon is a mod pleasant
Marcel. His coupees are driking, and his
muftc approved. He is at liberty to exercise
his " fantajlic toe," and to dance the hayes
through any of our columns.
From the Farmer's Weekly Museum.
" Let us get up early."
Solomon could hardlyhave written three
thousand proverbs and a madrigal to his love,
with such wisdom and wit, if he had not, by
the air and scenery of the morning, corrob
orated his health and kindled his fancy.—
Whether aftive as a king, or indolent as a
lover, he perceived that early hours were
auxiliary both to business and pleasure, arid
therefore iudicioiifly advises to rife with the
lark.
It) our climate, a miclfumiTitr mornings
dream not Shakespeare hintfeif should be
permitted to telL Blanket* and pillows
look so dull'and warm, and green grass and
trees so cheerful and refrefhing, it is won
derful tKe lluggard cannot even with half
(hut eyes, discern fueh wide extremes, and
prefer {trolling in the .ields to tumbling in
bed.
But in the course of my parochial visita
tions, my tap at many a door is often
answered by a voice exclaiming from behind
a curtain ) it is the voice of the sluggard.
The cock has crowed thrice, and certain
robbins have sung two hymns and a ballad,
before half my acquaintance have " girded
their loins," buckled their shoes and combed ,
their hair. Yet these creatures, not contend
with the naps of the night, swathe them- '
Telves like so many Egyptian mummies, in a :
sheet, fdur hours after sunrise, and then have
the impudence to rife and talk of business,
and the beauty of the day.
The princely poet, author of our excel
lent text, when exhorting to summer enjoy
ments, points not to the night season, nor ;
to the " inner pavilion" of the palace, but ;.
informs us that his " bed is.green," and his
love displayed in the opert air.
The gallant Solomon could invite the
blushing belle of Egypt to a morning's stroll,
into the vineyards, aud give her his love,
amidst the dews of dawriw Well wcrt thou
called wife, thou gallant prince, if it were
only for thy knowledge of the female heart.
Well didst thou know that the bu'ds of beau
ty, like the blossoms of Shinah, Healing
frefh vigour from slumber,* expand .all their
sweetness to the morning ray. In our time,
the torpid admirer snores, amidst the even
ing fog, the praises of his, aiftrefs, while
the sprightly strains of his serenade are ob
tunded by the thick mills of midnight.
In close parlours and the long winter's
eve, we pour over rent rolls and.en
gross marriage settlements. Let the city
lover, in cork foaled shoes, golofhoes and'
flannel, court the delicate maiden, in the
close cap and comfortable bed gown. But
he, that would woo thee buxom Health,
must
" "Brush with hasty steps the dews away,"
must not seek thee behind fire screens, or
lolling on a fofa, but must eredt a lodge in
the village ; and before the day-break, and
the shadows flee away, when the rose and
the mandrake give a sweet smell, listen for
thy jocund song, mingling with the matin of
the lark. In lieu of the ticket for the foe
tid theatre, or the card of the crowded ball
room, the American laffcr should bid good
morning to his fair one's night-cap, and sa
lute her with the early call of arise, my be
loved and come away, for the flowers ap
pear on the earth, and the time of the tinging
of the birds is come. Yet modern enamora
tos, in compliment to the indolent delicacy
of the day, Jboe their bootees " with felt"
and whisper " I charge you, O ye daugh
ters, by the roes and the hinds of the field,
that ye stir not up nor awake my love till flie
please."
But themornipg mrWeathr* not for lovers
slone. If the philosopher will arile and me
ditate at the morning tide, though he may
not rival the fame,-he may attain the hale
old age of Franklin.
The divine, by the light of the rising fun,
may catch hints from creation, which may
serve to raise the affe&ions of his flock to
him who divided the light from the dark
ness.
The merchant who opens his compting
house windows to the earliest breath of morh,
may perhaps find a reward in the custom of
the early purchaser.
The lawyer, who has groped the preced
ing day in the intricacies of special pleading,
when he views the peaceful face of morning,
and is enlightened by the beamy fun, may
perchance, from the serenity of the hour,
be led to con the grateful eulogium of
" blessed are the peace makers."
While the blythe hufbaridman, whom
Providence has orSained to mingle pleasure
with profit, finds, amidst his lowing herds,
bleating sheep ana slushing fields an excite
ment to the talk of the coming day.
THE LAY PREACHER.
SPJZECH of DAVID WOOD,
While 1 flanding in the pillory at Charkflown,
• Newhampjhire, May Z'Jth, 1797, forforg
ing a deed.
SYMPATHIZING FRIENDS,
You come here this day to fee a fad fight:
a poor old man publicly disgraced for. at
tempting to make a penny out of fifty acres
of Vermont rocks ; and yet I fee some here
in gay coats, mounted on naggifh hqrfes,
who have made thousands out of lands, to
which you had no more title, than I to Da
vid Dray's rocks. But you are great rogues
and wear silver spurs, and white beaver hats,
and flourilh your loaded whips, forget what
you once were, drink your Madeira, and
talk of your millions of acres, and set at
your ease ; while poor I, who have specu
lated a little, in a fifty acre lot, which would
not maintain a woodchuck, must stand here ;
for I am a little rogue, and have no preten
sions to be a great {peculator.
Let me ask you, what is the difference,
as to fin, between a man, who forges a deed
and fells lands under it, and a man, who
fells lands, to which he knows he has no ti
tle ? You all know the great 'Squire
he bought lands in Bolton at the time all
their great men were caught in the Georgia
land trap. The 'Squire came home by the
way of, Hartford, at the very moment when
the Hartford foxes were wailing for the loss
of their tails, in the fame spring trap. The
'Squire found he had bought the Devil, and
was determined to fell him again on the belt
terms he tould. He put spurs to his old
mare, rode before the news, and fold to the
widow Lowly and her two sons, who had
just come of age, about fifty thoufarid acres
of land, which lay the Lord knows where,
and to which'he knew he had no title, and
took all their father the old deacon's farm
in mortgage, and threatens to turn the poor
widow upon the town, and tier two boys
Upon the world ; but this is the way of the
world. The 'Squire is a great speculator,
he is of the quorum, can fit on the feilions,
and fine poor girls for natural mis-steps! ; but
I am a little rogue, wito speculated in only
fifty acres of rocks, and must stand here in
the pillory.
Then caere is the state of Georgia. They
fold millions of acres to which they had no.
tnore title, than I to David Dray's land.
Their great men pocketed the money ; and
their honorable assembly publicly burnt all
the records of their conveyance, and are now
felling the lands again. £ *"• Georgia is a
great honorable state. They can keep ne
gro (laves, race horses, gouge out eyes, fend
members to fight duels at Congress, and cry
out, for France and the guillotine, and be
honored in the land ; while poor I, who
never murdered any one, who never fought
a duel or gouged an eye ; and had too much
honor to burn my forged deed, when I had once
been wicked enough to make it, must stand here
in the pillory, for I am a little rogue,—
Take warning by my fad fate ; and if you
must speculate in lands let it be in millions
of acres ; and if you must be rogues, take
warning by my unhappy fate and become
great rogues.—For as it is said in a pair of
verses I read when I was a boy,
Little villains must fubmic to fate,
That great one. may enjoy the world in state.
And again,
A little knav'ry is a dangerous thing, .
Great cheats will flourifh, while the small ones
swing.
CO N C K- E S S.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
Saturday, July.
(Concluded from yejicrday s Gazette )
Mr. Otis observed that the gentleman from
Pennsylvania had furnifhed a conclusive argu
ment in favour of the proposed tax ; fur if a cer
tificate of naturalization was not required by
law, the duty would be optional and confequent
fair and equitable. —He agreed that the present
amendment wa« merely a question of revenue,
but the policy of a tax was always afair obje<st
of discussion, ami it was therefore proper to
eonfider the indireit and remote «ffe<£U of the
present bill upon the naturalization of foreign
ers. He denied the expediency of affording too
gieat a facility to their adrrtiffion among us
In the infancy of the country it was neceftary
to encourage emip-'ation, and fore'gners of ail
countries had been wifely invited and allured to
fettle in our territory;—To the industry of emi
grants many parts of the country were indebted
for the molt valuable improvements in agricul
ture and the arts —and he knew foreigners who
were an hirtior to the United States, who had
aided in forming their constitutions, in fighting
for their libertifs, and who were not less meri
torious citizens for not being born in the country.
There were others in that house and other legif
laturts, who were entitled to the highest confi
deratien and refpefl.—He rejoiced in the ad
vantages derived from persons of this defcrip
tion ; they w«uld not be affe&ed by the present
tax; but he was not anxious to give a greater
latitude to the laws of naturalization ; on the
contrary he thought it wife to rtflrain that privi
lege.—He did not belier,e it to be longer neces
sary to rely Upon thatfource of population ; but
coniidered the native American germ tobe am
ply fuffiuient for the production offuchfcions
a» were worth cultivation.— —He denied that
the manners of Europe were the ma' ners of this
country. 111 that quarter of the world a revo
lution of manners of the mod formidable nature
j threatened the subversion of all moral principle,
| of all fecial order, and a fyllem ot profligacy
had swept off every vestige of what ever was
I molt amiable and refpeilable in the eye of hu
manity—He trusted the cafe was different in this
country —It was true that Pennsylvania was in
debted in a great measure for her prosperity to
the irduftrious eftablifhrtienu formed by for
eigners of various descriptions, but it should al
so be remembered that the fouleft stain in the
annals of that state was not to be impifted to
natural born Cit ecus.
This amendment he said weul4 not affeiSt
those men who had already acquired lands in
this country, nor the deserving part of those
who might seek an asylum in it. Persons of
that description would easily pay the tax —But
it would tend to foreciol'e the inafs of vicious and
disorganizing characters, who could not live
peaceably at home; and who after unfurling
the standard of rebellion in their own countries
might come hither to revolutionize ours.
He felt every difpolitjon to refpeit those hon
est and industrious people whether Germans,
Irishmen or foreigners of whatever country
who had become citizens; and to fraterij'ze with
them while they remained obedient to the laws,
and faithful to their adopted country j but he
did not wish to invi'e hordes of wild Irifhmeß,
nor the turbulent and disorderly of all parts of
the world, to come here with a view to diflurb
our tranqudity, after having fucqeeded in the
overthrew of their own governments. 1.
Mr. Potter was willing to agree to
make the sum ten dollars, in order to shorten
the business, though he did not think 50
too much.
Mr. Coit thought it unfortunate that
they should, in this instance, have wandered
from the object of the bill. He trusted
when the friends' of the bill, who were also
friends of this measure, saw the difficulty
which would attend the incorporating of
t he fubjeft with it, they would give it np.
Mr. Baldwin was in favor of the smaller
sum. He said this was a fubjeft upon which
it was always found difficult to legislate, as
different parts of the country had very dif
ferent ideas upon it. In the part of the
country from whence he came the people
would not approve of such a tai, he belie
ved there were parts of the country which
would not bbjedl to a tax of 1000 dollars
upon the objedt ; but it was not so in other
parts. All the prosperity in some states
depended upon emigration and to lay a hea
vy tax of this kind would be to do violence
to their feelings. When, he heard differ
ent gentlemen express their opinions he
knew they were the opinions of the people,
from whence they came : if they were as
well acquainted with the whole of the coun
try, as with 50 miles round their own
homes, their sentiments would be different.
Mr. Sttgreaves thought this tax as
jultifiable and as much connected with the
present Ibill as the taz upon lawyers, and
that 20 dollars would be a reasonable sum.
Ttie question for inferring ten dollars was
put and negatived and then 5 was moved
and carried, there being 56 in favor of it.
The question whs then upon agreeing to
the proportion as amended-
Mr. Swan wick spoke at length on this
fubjeft, and dwelt particularly on the hard
ftiip which the poorer part of emigrants
would experience iu paying this tax and if
th?y did r.ot'pay it, they would be living in
the country jis foreigners,and notas citizens
of a free country.
Mr. Venable did not cbfifrder this as a I
tax which would laU equally on all foreign- '
ers who became citizens, but partially upon
those who might have occasion for certifi
cates, and even duplicates.of them.
The question on this proportion was ta
ken by yeas and nays follow .
YEAS.
MefTrs. Allen, Baer, Bayard, Bradbury,
Brookes, Bryan, Champlin, Clay, Coch
ran, Craik, Dana, Davis, Dennis, A.
Foster, D. Foster, Glen, Goodrich, Gor
don, Grifwold, Grove, Hanna, Hartley, ,
Hindman, Hofmer, S. Lyrnuc.'Matthews,
Morgan, Morris, Otis, Potter, Reed,
Rutledge* Schureman, Sitgreaves, Sewjß, t
Shepard, Sinrfickfon, N. Smith, W. Smith,
(C.) Thatcher, Thomas, TJhopipfon, Van
Allen, Varnum. Wadfworth, J. Williams.
-46.
NAYS'.
MeflfS. Baldwin, Bair.d, Benton, Blouut, |
Burgess, Cabell, Claibornt, Clopton, Coit, .
Dawfon, Dent, Elmendorf, Evans, Fow- [
ler, Gallatin, Gillefpie', Harper, Havens, |
Holmes, Jones, Livipgfton, Locke, Ly
on, Machir, Macon, M'Ckor.clran, M'Dow- |
all, Milledge, New, Nicholas, Parker, -.1
Skinner, W. Smith, (P.) Sprigg, Stand
ford, Sumpter, Swanwick, A. Trigg, J.
Trigg, Van Cortlandt, Venable, R. Wil
liams.— 42.
Mr. Bayakd moved to strike out the ex
ception in favor of patents for military land,
on the ground that thty were moltiy in the
hands of speculators ; but after feme co?,
veifation his motion was negatived, the yeas
and nays being taken upon it, 71 to 12.
The yeas were Meflrs. Bayard, Brookes),
Cabell, Dent, Elmendorf, Gillefpie, Ha-
I vens, Locke, Reed, N. Smith, Van Ale it
I and Varnum.
i Mr. Champlin moved io strike out for
eign bills of exchange from any duty, owing
to the embarralTment such a duty might oc
casion, from a foreign merchant not beinjg
able to fay whether a bill was drawn upon'
j a proper kind of stamp.
This motion was also negatived. ' i
Upon the amendment of the committee
of the whole to strike out the following
words, the yeas iuid nays were called, "ex
cept notes iflued by any bank," &'c. whio.i
was carried 76 to 11. The nays were'
MefTrs. Bayard, Champlin, Cochran, Craik,.
A. Foster, D. Foster, Hartley, Hofmer - ,
1 Sitgreaves, N. Smith, and W. Smith (C.)
j Mr. Craik, moved to strike out the
■ whole of the clause relative to p duty oh
bonds, bills and notes, which
1 ved without a division.
i Mr. Gallatin moved to strike out the
, cladfe which forbids the receiving of ar y
' paper not legally stamped in any conrt/d"
: jultice in evidence ; and the yeas and nr*
were taken upon it as follow :
YEAS, }
MefTrs. Baldwin, Bard, Blount,
i Bryan, Burgess, Cabell, Claiborne, Cljiy>
Clopton, Davis, Dawfon, ElmendorjiW
Fowler, Gallatin, Gillefpie, Hanna, I.la
vens, Holmesj Locke, Lyon, MicOri,
M'Clenachan, Milledge, New, Nicholas,
Parker, Skinner, W. Smith, (P.) Sprigg, j
Standford, Sumprpr, A.Trigg, J. Trigg,»
Vaa Cortlandt, Varnum, R. Williams, 57.S
NAYS. 1
MefTrs. Allen, Baer Bayard, Brookes,■
Champiin, Cochran, Coit, Craik, Danna,®
Dennis, Dent, Evans, A. Foster, D. Fof-S
ter, N. Freeman, Glen, Goodrich, Gor- ■
don, Grifwold, Grove, Harper, Hindman,
Hofmer, S. Lyman, Machir, Otis, Pot
ter, Reed, Sewall, Shepard, Sitgreaves,
J. Smith, N. Smith, Wm. Smith (C.)
Swanwick, Thatcher, Thomas, Thompson,
Wadfworth, Van Allen, J. Williams, 41,
The bill was ordered to be engrofleeffor
a third reading ou Monday. Adjourned.
For sale,
A pair of very bandjome
Bay Horses,
Near fixtecn hands higli, well broke, and tier-a
fcelly gentle. Enquire at Mr. Kelson's stables.l
Ciuirch-allejr. ■ I
Also, for Sale,
A Chariot and plated Harness.
June 31. diop
PIANO FORTE.
LONGMAN & BRODERIP's
ROYaL patent Piano Forte witii a green
board, an excellent toned iniirument. For
file at Mr. Saltsrs, No. 56, S. Fouatli Street.
July 6. di\»
Three Hundred Dollars Reward.
ON Friday morning lad the office of the Phila
delphia Gazette, fronting onChefnut-Hrotc,
was fclomofcfly entered, a deflc lorcei open, and
calh, to the amount of JKighty Dollars, in New-
York, Delaware and Philadelphia notas, taken
therein ni. «'
On Saturday night, the fame villain (orfome
other, a&uated by motive* equally deceit able) re-,
turned, and; after forcing the lock from the bach »
door of the office, took from the above mentioned
delk the following notes, &c.—< One New-York
branch bank note of 100 dollars; one Baltimore
note of 10 dollars; two do. of 5 ; oue bank of s
North America, of i6> torn through the middle;
three t dollar and time 1 dolUr Columbia notes ;
one 1 dollar note of the baak of Jv3arylard, torn
through the middle and a piece of. paper palled ou
the back ; a number of Philadelphia not.s ; one
half eagle, and fomc filver-rthc whole amounting
to about 170 dollars.
A number of papers, the utility of which, from
tbfe-darknefs of the night, the villain was not able
to perceive, were returned through the channel
the post off.ee this morning. * -
THREE HUNDRED DOUiARS will be paid
for the discovery of the perpetrator of
robbery, so that he may he profeeuted to ccxividlion.
Office c£ the Philadelphia Gazette, 1
. 3, 7^7-1
f PiTILA DEL PIIIJ,
THURSDAY EVENING, July 6.
Estr;ift of a letter from General S , da
ted Baltimore, 4th of July, 1797, to a
Member of Congress.
Captain Sanger 12 days from Port-au-
Paix, arrived lad night ( fays, That Son
thos-U has ordered all captures and con
demnation of American property to cease,
in eonfequence as was reported of orders
from France.—He adds that two or three
American vessels lately taken were liberated
in conformity. Captain Sanger is a very
rtfpeclable man, and fays I may rely on the
truth of his account.
The folloivh'g papers were communicated to
both Houfis of Congress by a Mejfage from
the President, —July 3.
'tudhentic.
R. Lutok prdents his to Cel. Pickir
ing, Secretary of State
you firft mentioned to me the suspicions
cxpreHH by the Spnuiih Minister refpe&ing an ex
pedition fuppofeil to be preparlhg on the
with a view to arrack the Spanilh polls in Louisia
na, I took the liberty of observing to you, that I
had no knowledge ot fuch preparations, and
did not believe they exilted.
I have Cnce requeued information on the fußjcifl
from thfc Governor General of Canada and his
Majefly's Secretary of State,; and I have authnti
ty to allure you, that ne expedition of the nature
of that alluded to has been or is intended by the
British government. Indeed the impropriety of
violating the neutral territory of the United States
an objection of fuf&deat magnitude to induce
the King's Mmifters to reje£t,any fuck plan, were
itfuggeftedto them.
Philadelphia, 19th June, I jfj.
DETARTMENT.of STATE,
Philadelphia, July 1, 1797.
SIR,
\ our note of the 19th of"the last month, 1
alluding to the suspicions exprefled by the
( Spanilh minister, respecting an expedition
fuggglled to be preparing at the Lakes, a
gainst the Spanilh posts in Louisiana, I laid
before the President of the United States,
who received great fatisfa&ion from your
a durance that no such expedition has been
or is intended by the British government.
AVill you permit me to inquire whether
you can give any information concerning
sny other project of an expedition against
any part of the dominions of Spain adjacent
to the territory of the United States, where
or from whence any co-operation was con
templated ? lam aware of the delicacy of
this inquiry : but the franknefs of your ver
bal answer formerly relating 'to the alledgcd
expedition from Canada, and the assurances
in your note abovementioned, lead me to
hope that you will not deem the present in
improper, and the proofs you have
uniformly given of refpeft to the rights and
, interests of the United, States authorise the
further hope that you will feel yourfelf at
liberty to communicate any information you
pofiefs which on this occasion may concern
theirtrar.quility and welfare ; and I beg you
to be aflured that it is on this ground only
that I would make the inquiry. I will add,
however, that it is not the result offufpicion,
but of information, (in which your name is
introduced) that some projedt of the kind
has been contemplated, and that the' means
proposed for carrying it into execution
could not but be highly detfimental'to the
United States.
I have the honor to be, with great refpeft,
Sir,
Your mod obedient servant,
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
Robert Liston, Esq. •
envoy extraordinary &
minister plenipotentiary
of his Britannic majesty
to the United States.
R Liston presents his refpe&s to Colo
nel Pickering, Secretary of State.
I have had the honor of receiving your
letter of yellerday.
In the course qf lad winter some persons
did a&ually propose to me a plan for an at
tack on the Floridas and the other poffefii
ons of his Catholic Majesty adjoining to the
territories of the United States.
The general outline of the projeft was,
th"- the expedition (houldbe undertaken by
a British force sent by sea, and seconded by
a number of men resident within the limits
of the United States, who I was allured,
would be- willing to join the King's llandard,
if it were eredted on the Spanish territory.
I informed the proje&ors that I could not
give any encouragement to a plan of this na
ture ; and I particularly stated two objefti
011s to it—the impropriety of any measure
that tended to a violation of the neutrality 1
of the United States, and the inhumanity of
calling in the aid of the Indians, a circum
stance hinted at in thetonverfation that had
taken place 011 the fubjeft.
I conceived it to be my duty however to
mentiofi the business in my correfpondencc
with my superiors : and I lately received
an answer, acquainting me that his Majefr
ty's ministers did not thinkproperto give a
ny countenance to the projett. The two
objections above alluded to (which I had of
course infilled on in my report) are stated as
fuflkient reasons for its rejection.
You must fillow me, Sir, to decline en
tering into any further particulars. On the
one hand because, although I have all'along
lufpected that the persons, who proposed the
plan to me, might not improbably be em
ployed by the enemies of Great Britain, to
endeavor with sinister views to insinuate
themfeives into my confidence, yet as these
may be falfe, I should not be
juttified in betraying the secrets of men who •
ir.ay have meant me well: and on the other
tend, because however loose the principles
of tlie/e speculators may have been on the
fubjedt of the law s os nations (as it regards
the duties of neutrality) none of them in
their intcrcourfe with me ever expressed sen
timents that were in ar y degree hoftileto the
interests of the United States.
Philadelphia, 2d July.
Colonel King's Iron-zvoris,
April 21/, 1797.
DEAR CAREY,
I widled to have seen you, before I return
ed to Philadelphia; but lam obliged to re
turn to the .felTion of the Congress, which
commences on the 1 Jth May.
Among other things thai I wished to
have seen you about, was the business Cap
i tain Chediolm mentioned to the British
Minister last winter at Philadelphia.
I believe, but am not quite sure, that
' the plan then talked of will be attempted
this fall; and if it is attempted, it will be in
a much larger way than then talked of; and
1 if the Indians adl their part, I have no doubt
but it will succeed. A man ofconfeqiienee
has gone to England about the business,
and if*he makes arrangements as he expe&s,
I shall myfelf have a hand in the business,
and probably shall be at the'head of the bu
siness on the part of the British. You are,
however, to understand that it is not yet
quite certain that the plan will be attempt
ed; yet you will do well to keep things in
a proper train of J a£tion in cafe it should be
attempted, and to do so will require all your
management. I fay require all your ma
nagement, because you must take care, in
whatever you fay to Rogers, or any body
else, not to let the plan be difcov.red by
Hawkins, Dinfmore, and Byers, or any o
ther person in the interest of' the United
State 3 or Spain.
If I attempt this plan, I shall expert to
have you, and all my Indian country and
Indian friends with me; but you are now in
good business, I hope, and you are not to
rifle the loss of it by faying any thing that
will hurt you until you again hear from me.
Where Captain Chefholm is I do not know;
I left him in Philadelphia in March, and he
frequently visited the Minister, and spoke
upon the fubjert; but I believe he will go
into the Creek nation, by way of South
Carolina or Georgia. He gave out he was
going to England, but I did not believe
him. Among the things that you mayfafely
do, will be to keep up my eonfequence with
Watts, and the Creeks and Cherokees gen
erally, and yon must by no means fay any
thing in favour of Hawkins> but as often as
you can with fafety to yourfelf, you may
teach the Creeks to believe he is no better
than he should be. Any power or eonfe
quence he gets will be against our plan.
Perhaps Rogers, who has no office to
lose, is the belt man to give out talks against
Hawkins. Read the letter to Rogers, and
if you think it best to fend it to him, put a
wafer in it, and forward it to him by a fafe
hand, or perhaps you had best fend for him
to comt; to you, and speak to him yourfelf,
refpefting the state and profpert of things.
I have advised you in whatever ypu do
to take care of yourfelf. I have now to
tell you to take care of (Tie too, for a dis
covery of the plan would prevent the success,
and much injure all parties concerned. It
may be that the Commissioners may not run
the line as the Indians expeft, or w'ifh, and
in that rafit it is probable the Indians may
be taught to blame me for making the
Treaty.
To' such complaints against me, if such
there are, it may be said by ray friends, at
proper times and places, the Doublehead
confirmed the Treaty with the President, at
Philadelphia, and receives as much as 5000
dollars a year ta be paid to the nation over
and above the firft price: Indeed it may with
truth be said, that though 1 made the treaty,
that 1 made it by the inflru&ions of the Pre
sident, and in fart it may with truth be said,
1 hat I was by the President inrtruftad to pur
chase much more land than the Indians would
agree to fell. 'Ehis fort of talk will be throwing
all the blame off me, upon the late Piefiderit,
»nd as he is now out of ofiv.e, it will be ps
110 eonfequence how much the Indiavs blarre
him. And among ot her things that may be
said for ire, is, that I was ndt at the running
of the line, and that if 1 had been, it would
have been run more to their fatibfaAion. Jn
fliort, you understand the fubjert, and mitil
take care to pive.out the proper talks to keep
up my tenftquence with ihe Creeks aid
Cherokees. Can't Rogers contrive to get t' *
'Creeks ta desire the President to take Haw
kins out of the nation, for if he stays in the
Creek nation, and gets the good-will of '.he
nation, he can and will do great injury to
our plans. When you have read thi3 letter
over three times, then bum it. I lh*ll b<
it Knuxville in July or August, when 1 will
fend for Watts, and give him the yhifkey I
promised him, Sec.
WILLIAM BLOUNT.
The conduct of those Editors who have
designedly perverted the state of fatts in re
gard to the tranfartionsof the British Am
baflador relative to certain of the patriots
who had made treasonable proposals to him,
cannot be reprobated in language too se
vere. We publish this day an authentic
copy of every thing that has yet passed on
the fiibjeft. We shall offer r.o comments.
Our readers canhot fail to observe a most
striking aud honorable contrail when com
paring the tranfacHons of the British Mi- ]
niftei' and Government with the conduft of
another nation and its minister on a former j
occasion.
MR. FENNO,
There is a barefaced assertion in Bache's
paper of this day, purporting that the fait
tax was carried by the absence of certain
exclusive patriots. The truth is, when all 1
those patriots were present, a proposition to 1
impose thirteen cents per bushel was loft only
by two votes at the beginning of the feflion 1
—and at this time Meflrs. Sinnickfon,
Sewall and Bayard were absent. Again the I
> fame Bache imputes the parage o£ thi uamp
• act to the absence of members, and
> among otliersof Mr. Swanwick. The fadt
1 is, that S\vai:\»k\k was in favor of the bill,
at lead he has always said so. There "were
•- also abf:nt the following gentlemen, who
were in favor of the Kill ; viz. Me firs. Brad
huiy, Bullock, Chapman, Ege, Grove,
Imlay, and Kittera.
1 " Lord hoiv this world is given to lying."
PRICES OF STOCKS.
• 6 per Cent. 16/8 >/,*«--
1 / per Cent. lofi] e J> iff
Uelerred 6 per Cent. . 13/3 i , % r 4
| i'ANK United States, dividend off i 4 per ct.
—— North America, 1 jo
Infuranse C'omp. N. A fhacet *SO
' Pennfylvauia, 4a ? nefct.adv.
COURSE or EXCHANGE.
On London, at .30 diys par
——— at 60 days 65
at 90 days 61
Amifterdam, per guilder 4 o
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Poxp of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED. DAVS.
Schr. Dauphine, Morse, Mitaguan, ' 18
The brig Maria, Latimer, failed June I, from
Kingflon, for this port.
Captain Moi(e left Mariguan the schooner
I.ittle 1 oDi, Butler, , of this* port, brig
Clyo, Clomnell, Baltimore, te fail foen. Eight
days out was boarded by a New Providence pri
vateer and po.itely treated.
Captain PearfoH from LilLon, informs, that the
Pomona, Scott, of Alcxanandtia, taken by f.
Spanish privateer, and retaken by the Flora fri
gate, was bound from Oporto, to take
in a cargo of wine, for Philadelphia.
The Mancheller tailed from Bourdeaux, May
U. June 9th, fpnke flnp Nancy, Con'ingham,
iVilmiugton, N. C. from ditto bound to Rot
terdam, out 25 days, long. 48. lat 30, 40.
June lath, spoke the schooner Hero, of Sun
bnry, from Cadiz, bound to Bollon, out 40 days,
lat. j3, 7. /
June 21, lpoke fhlp Patriot, of Kew-York,
Captain Lee, from Amflerdam, out. 64 days,
■ with paflcngers; fnpplie*! him with proviliotift.
j J>ine i6th, spoke lohooner delight, from Por
; to Rico to Bofton'. out 14 days, a veflel bought
by leveral American captains who were cruelly
treated by the French, lat- 38,
| Sally, Captain poller, expeilad to
■ faH in two wttks for this port.
The Frißkim, Jones, to fail in 8 or 10 days
for do.
«
Baltimore, July 4.
Arrived on Friday, schooner Adeline, captain
Stanly, Ji days from Gonaives. Captain Stan
ley informs, that the French made an attack od
St. Mark, the id ulr with 16,000 men, but
were repulsed wiih thelofsof soot; killed. The
French had previously attacked and carried a
fort it a dlfhnee frefm the town, and put evtry
man («soin number) to the sword—there were
in the principal fort that guarded the place, but
300 men, who would have met the fame fate,
had it not happened luckily for them that two
frigates unexpefledly put into the harbour that
night, and made difpoGtions to flank, the French
on both fides, when they should attack the town.
At. the rising of th« modn the enemy marched
up to attack the fort, certain of as complete a
viiSlory as they had obtained the day before j
nor had they any knowledge of their danger,
until they found themfelvesweighed almost flank
and rear by the frigites, which opened a tre
mendous ami deadly fire upon them—and they
found themselves obliged to make a precipitate
retreat to save themselves from inevitable de
. flrn&ion. Cap- S. diftiniflly Jieird the firing
during the whole aflault at Gonaives, to which
place the French returned after the failure of
the expedition, before lie filled. ,
Arrived on Sunday evering schooner Fox.
Capt. Moses Cahoon, 14 c?ays fr»tri Guadaloupe.
; Oo the aßth June, was brought to in lat. 34,
I long." 72, 30, W. by the Britilh frigate Thetis,
1 Capt- Cochran, detained abovt half an hour,
treated politely, and dHmifltd.
Capt. Cahoon has handed us the fullowing'lift
of American veflels brought into
by the French:
Schooner James, Captain-Hugh GemmiU,
from Baltimore, bouud to IWbice, condemned.
Schooner Betsey, of Boston, Captiin Finley,
bound to C«rraco4; cleared by giving bond to
go to said port.
Sioop America, Captain Wetmniy, of New-
York, laO from North' Carolina, floup and car
go condemned.
Sihaoner Becci, of Bollon, Captain Cruftt
lift from Norfolk, taken off Tobago; veflll not
arrived there, nor heard of—Capt. left there on
1 the 9th of May to seek his veflfcl.
Schooner Lively. Captaiii Spooner, from
B.ifton to Guadaloupe ; taken and brought into
grt, and Jeared, but obliged to go 10 Curra
i oa.
Schoot.er , Captain Gray, from Bos.
toil, bound to Guadaloupe; veflel and cargo
cr>, mned.
Ship Bowman, capt. Dickfon, of and
from Norfolk, taken into Point-Pctre;
veflel and cargo condemned, capt. in pri
son. , - >
Brig Philanthrophift, capt. Hodgdon of
Baltimore, from Demarara,
o-11a; brig and cargo condemned.
Brig William, capt. Cooke, of Boston,
from Norfolk, bound to lAntigua; cargo
condemned.
Schooner Maria, capt. Keen, from
Alexandria, bound to Barbadoes ; fell in
with the French privateer Cafua, command
ed by De Tarre. bro't into Basseterre—no
doubt but the cargo condemned.
Brig Marquis, capt. Hafhaw, bound to
Guadaloupe—taken and carried into Anti
gua, were he was treated with justice, ami
permitted to proceed to his port:
.Ship Cathaiirte, eapt. Farrady, from Phi
ladelphia, taken and carried into Bay M*hone
(Guadaloupe) vefTel asd cargo condtmend.
Capt. Thomson, of and from Baltimote,
Sound to St. Bartholomews, wan taken by a
French privateer, and fend intu St. Martins.
The capt. arrived atßalTetetrc(Guadalcope)
to Itund Ins trial, but whs obliged to hire a
veflel at .13 dollars per day to carry him there.
Brig Sally, capt. Adrms, of and from Phi
ladelphia, bctind to Martinique, captbred by
\ French privateer, and carried into BjiTelcrie j
(Guaialoupe) vjjjTel and cargo co'dtftiaed. ;
From the Farmer's Weekly Muftutn.
FROM THE SHOP OF
- MUSS. COLON £3° SPONDEE. <■
A NEW SONG,
1 o the tuae of " 0 dear •what can tbe matt.r be."
COME hoiiics ofContjrefs, pray do not be fmok
iiig me, (
With your well boms, and ill boras, pray do not bu
poking ir.>,
For what you call complaisance alwaysi« choking me;
If' you knew me, pray how inouldit fail:
For Och blood anouhs, what can the matte r be,
l'hat Congreta with high blood all should fullfat
i tcn'd be ;
0 gr; mmiichrce, you had better have ratlan'd «ie,
I'm bother'd Stem head tu the tail.
When firfl. 1 bog trotted to Congrtfs, dear Spaiktr;
1 thought a Repj like a pig, was a li:j rty creatare,
Who might nuzzle and grunt m his own pretty
And quarrel like felons in jarl; [nature,
But Och blood anuuns, what can the matter be,
v»ithbreedihgaudciv.iplailaacethustobefpattcrme,
And thus to be puitmg the gentleman arter me ;
I'm bother'd (rum head to the tail.
i* nd as to thi» answer here to our ould Prelident
Vv hy fan't we all carry it, while we ire here r.jidcnt ?
Fori ait,mypoliteneisihall ne*er draw apri.ccaeht;
To the old l'owl myfelf will turn tail ;
For Och blood anouns, what can the matter be,
That to bow and to fcrapeyou will so beilatter me,
And on both fides of the House thus to bother and
batter me,
I'm bother'd, Fait, how should I fail.
With your high blood and wellborn, pray do no
r more rack us;
But hear that fwect foul, honest Horace O'Flaccus, ■
Who fays that good blood will mod damnably
thwack us,
Och honies, O how should it fail !
But Och fclood anouns what can the matter be,
That Congress with high blood should thus ill fat
ten'd be ?
0 graniachree, you had better have rartan'd me ;
I'm bother'd from head to the tail.
Here is/ my own felf,who was born of my mother,
A haW hearty wench, and my father's another,
Whose blood ran at low as the wash of a gutter ;
Och honies, O how should it fail!
Then Och blood anouns what the matter be,
1 hat with your highhlood you 11 ill will bespatter me;
I fear my dear blarney's yon are after. t« flatter jne;
' I'm bother'd from head to the tail.
My father ne'er hang'd a witch of a-woman,
Or beat a poor baift who made Sunday common,
For why, his own felf, was tucV4 up at Ilolcom
mon,
Och honie», Ohowfliould he fail !
But Och blood anouns what can the matter be
That with ould N»lt Cromwell you will thus be
spatter me ,
And give me more daddies than ever went afterme;
I'm bother'd from head to the tail.
Did you know how I fought on the sweet Onion
river,
It would cause all your bowels to caper and quiver,
With my big woeden sword : daddy Gates was the
giver, >
Och honies, O how should I fail;
Och blood anouns, what can the matter be,
That in your two ditchesyou will thusbelpatter me,
I'm sick of your nonsense and long to befcattcr ye ;
I'm bother'd from head to the tail.
Now take take your fine fpaiches and all go and
read them ; [them,
Let the house go before, matter the fpaikcr precede
While I'll flay behind, like a fowl that loves free
dom,
Och honies, O how should I fail;
Och blood anouns, what can the rnattsr be,
Tnat with your civilities, thus you'll bespatter me,
Fa:t homo, you can't to a giutl£UA n flatter me,
You are bother'd from head to the tail.
Bush Hill. '
'"r'HE Puhb'c are rrfpeitfully informed that the
'j Gardens will be open
Thursday Evening, 6th, end Saturday, Bth
. >h>
With a Concert of Vocal and inflrumental Mu
sic, after the B~.anner of the public, gafdcns, Paris,
►London, ttc.
Vocal Performers — Me (TVs. Parley, fin. Dar- !
ley, jun. Bates, and Miss Bkoadhurst.
Inflrumcntal —Meflrs. Hopefield, Wolfe, Mucke, '
Homan, Brooke, Shetky, Petit, Oznabluth, Morel, j
Dcclary, etc. Organijl—Mr. B. Carr.
Admittance half a dollar.
The Gsrdtfns to be opened at fix o'clock, and the
Concert U> begin at levenr
Tickets to te had and Boxes to be taken at
Mr. CaftV Mufic-Oore, Market-street
N. B. Tickets of general admittance for thefea
fon to be had so» twelve dollars,each, at theb&rof
the Bush-Hill tavern.
J»'y ?•
LANDING,
At Walnut-flreet wharf, from on bond (hip Man
chcKer, Bertj. Shewell, matter, from Bourdo-.u*,
Bourdecuz Brar.fly
Old Claret in hhds.
Medoc Wine in cases
Santeme do. do.
For Sale by ,
Thomas Murgatroyd\
No. 11, Walnut-Jlreet,
Said Ship for Freight or Charter,
Burthen 2So tons, Philadelphia
built of live Oak and Cedar, will
> be ready to fail in a few days
Apply as above,
juiy 5. • mwf
FOR SALE,
Thefollowing Valuable Property.
A VACANT Lot;, £tuate*d on the eafl fide of
£\. Third-street, between Shippen and Pldmb
ftreets, twenty one feet front by one hundred feet
deep.
A frame Tenement fifteen feet by nineteen feet,
on the north fide of SJiippen-ftreet betwecm Third
and Fourth-lhects ; the lot is one hundred ieet
deep, it is paved the door, and great im
provements are making in the street—the abivve is
clear of ground rent and every other incumbrance
—the house leu for thirty seven pounds ten foi 1-
lings per annum.
Aframe Tenement eleven by fisteen feet, on the
weft fide of Fifth-ftreet, between Shippen and
Plumb-streets ; the lot h ninety fix feet deep, clear
of every incumbrance except a grcund rtot of one
hundred and ten {billings per annum ; the hcufo
lets for thiity pounds per annum. y
ALSO,
A pair of dark brown Carriage Horses, pne of
winch is an excellent Saddle Horse.
Tor further particulars inquire of
Samuel R. Franklin,
No: 100, Lombard-ttwet, corner of Fourth fit.
N. E. The above property tv'll be fold for part
caOx wd part dry joods.
Jure 30. jaW4W
| POST-OFFICE.
I cru _ Philadelphia; 6th July, 'gj.
n * ,7> ma '-f or Cajlle, Cantwell' t b, idgt,
Duck Creek crofi toads, Dover, Frederica, Mil
i\ n T '" W ' > C U the t' ttce "f Clowes) and
Dapjbarougb, tn Delaware; Trap and Snow
'''• "f Maryland ; Horn. Town, Accomack C.
i Northampton C. H- in Krginia ; litl
be tlofed every Monday, Wednefdjy, and i'rida ,
atfanfeu _ ;' '
On TUESDAY evening next, the nth inft,
wnl be fold l>y public auftion, .at the Mer- '
chants Coffeehnufe for account of the con
cerned, being deposited as collateral fccurity.
Sundry PromiiTory Notes,
by John Nicholfon in favour of, and
indorsed by David Allifor. The said notes are
all due and have been regularly protelted lor non
payment". They have been originallv given for
a full and valuable consideration—are clear" of
any dispute or defalcation a'nd will be received
| equal to specie for (hares in the Pennsylvania
Lsnd Company 2nd will cf course be a great
objefl of fpeculition.
j Approved endorftd notes at sixty (lays will fce
received 1 in payment.
July 6, 1797. ' *d ;t
Town Lots.
A TOWN named BEULA, one milts fqtiare,
bsing laid out on the Blacklick Creek, Som
i erfct County, Pcnnfylvania, Lots therein of 58 feet,
hy 125 feet are now felling at ten dollars each ;
their situation in the town to he detetmiiled by %
j ballot before the firft of Acgult, and deeds for the
fame will.be deliver*? by the fubicriber before the
firft of Ot£lob§r next.
j - MORGAN J. RHEES,
77 > SciulhSccond-Areet, Philadelphia.
Tie purchasers of lots in Beula have the following
profpeisU.of appreciating their property :
1. If is remote from any other town, and sur
rounded by great bodies of excellent land, capabk
: of producing every kind of grain and vegetables,
| and is without dcubtone ®f the best grazing coun
! tries in the United States.
2. In point of health the Croatian is not exceed
ed by any 011 the continent
j J Besides numerou» springs and runs, of the fin-
I eft quality, there'is a creek for water works (on
\ which mills are now buUding) running through the
town, V
1 4 The publ : cToad frem Philadelphia to Pjttf-
go through it, which beinp more level
ami nearer than any other rout 'must become uni-
Virftlly travelled : aided by the navigation of Ju
niara and .Cor.cmaugh, goods may be c nveyed at
lead 2 tr 3 dollars -per twt. cheaper from the for
mer to the latter place, than by the old road thro'
Bedford.
5- Being in the centre of a fleurilhing settle
ment, arid taking in the Ihorteft portage between
the .eastern and western waters, it is likely to bc
c6mc a deposit for stores, 'a manufacturing town,
and a feat.of justice. Besides the old settlers, up
wards of ons hundred emigrants have fettled in the
vicinity of Beula, since last October, and many
more havs engaged to join them this summer.
6. A Land-Offide for supplying aftual settlers
with farms to a considerable amount, ahd in vari
ous situations, will be immediately opened in the
tqwn. The proprietors of land in the circumja
cent country art felicited to fend their drafts and
terms of fate, or leafing, to Thomas Jones, Sur
veyor, iu Beula, who will give security for any
trull reposed in him : with such co-operating aid,
the progrefsof the settlement will be the more ra
f idly advanced and extended t.o distant townftips.
7- A public liUary for the benefit of the settlers,
will be eftablilhea in the town, towards laying the
foundation of which, upwards of one theufand
volumes are already purchased and principally sent
forward.
8. Two hundred acres ef land adjoining the
town, besides lots atid fubferiptions,will be applied
to support a minister and preceptor, capable of
teaching the ufeful and liberal arts.
9. After defraying ncccfiary eipences, the mo
ney arising from the present sales will belaid out in
public buildings—A place of worlhip, school
house and library room, are the firft obje&s.
IS. Every,profeflional man and mechanic, on
cond tion of building a with a stone or biick
chithney, and residing in it, before the firft of No
vember next, will be entitled to soar lots gratis,
free fortver from ground rent. Five and ten acre
out lots in-.y likewifp be obtained 011 rcafonable
terms.
*. * The two central streets in Beula are 100
feet wide, and the others 80 feet. Refeiwed fquarts
ond ether accommodations must add to the health
and beauty of the place.
July 6. . 5t
. .Boarding and Lodging
FOR-Gagte gentlemen may be had at No.
.114, .Sixth-street, corner of Race.
So • <? apartments to be let at the abovs place.
Ju y 6. *k.
Valuable Publi9 Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
Ariv% for Sale
At the Office of the "Ed'tor ofthe Gazette of the
United States,
No 11 g Chefnut-Srrect,
[PRICE ONB SOLLAR AND FIPTY CENTs]
A FEW COPIES OF THE <
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795, —
Being the ?,atest Period to which an account
can be made up.
February si. «
for Sale,
At the Qflice of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefnut-Ureet,
The last Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury ; being a brief hifiory of the
ilate of financial concerns cf the United States,
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpedling the wefiern in
furreilion : -Containing many faiils and cir
cumllances no where cife to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of JVFr. Pickering to
our minister in France. 37 1-2 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
1795-
A i;tw copies of the volume for 1704. may be
had to completefetts.
D'lvern'ois' account of the Revo
lution in Genrva. 11 1-2 tents.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale arid Cydef
London Porter
Taunt' n and Barton Ale
R»d Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by: the pipe, quarter-cask or gallon —suitable
fsrexp rtation or home confumptjon—
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. §S fcuth Front streetSamuel & Miers Fiflier, ,
"H6. 27, i&ock-ilreetj
Have jall received per Belcoch* from
Belfast,
IRISH CaTribricks* inbofces of 40 piefces
and 80 patchesj each sorted tip to 9/ j
sterling per yard. (
' They have also received I
">]-% & 4-4 Irilh Linens well a {Forted t
Dowlas and Sheetings, ' 1
which will be fold for ready money, or fliort (
credit, on rnodeVate terms ; together with 1
a general afTortment of Spring Goods as '
ufual.—sf/fo,
Hunter's Pipes in boxes ,
An afTortment of Queens' Ware iii crates ,
An afTortment of GTafs Ware in casks and
crates
T. Crowley, MiiTington, Steel
Cargo & London particular TenerifFe Wines
Lilbon Wine of excellent quality
Superio}' Sherry Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales fine Cloths neatly assort
ed, and two bales alforted Flannels, to be
fold per package.
Juhc 9. Jtaw 6w
, / . . , ■ - ■ 1 ■ ■■ ■
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Marht-Jlreet.
MISS GHRYSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity ef acquaintirtg
her Friends that Ihe has received by the
WilliaM Penn, a variety of NEW MIL-1
LINKRY, &c. which (he hopes to be able to
'lhdw tliein in a few days.
May 18 fjot
To be fold,
The time of a ftaut hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has upwards of four years to [arc. Enquire
at No. 25, Dock-street.
June 13. ' d2W
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And forl'aleby John Morton, No. 116) South
Front-street,
Hyson
¥°" s H ki " (teas
Young Hylon f
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
A New Work.
■ PROPOSALS
£or priuting and publiflimg, by fubfttiptioo, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN Nprtb-Amtrica. from theorigioalinftitutiooand
I'ettiement of that province, under the fir ft propri
etor and governor, William Finn, in 1681, 'till
after the \ ear X7>«; »ith
' AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpe&ing the Life* of W. PENN,
Piior to theg-ant of that Province, and the reli
cir.us Society o( the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGH BO RING COLONIES,
m*re particularly ot \\ f-NEW- JERSEY, aod the
Settlement of the DUTCH snd SWEDES 00 DEL A
WARE. „
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE
And of the general state, in which it flourifhcd,
prineipallv beiweeo the years 1760 and 1)70. The
whole including a variety of things, ufeful and in
terefling tu be known, refpefting that country in early
time. Sec. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years 1776 and 1780,
By RctEkr Provd.
" Pulchrvn tfi bcicJacercreitiMica. ttiam ber.tdicere
hand atjurdum tjl, vtl face vel btUo clarvm fioi licit."
■>al. Cataliy.
" S:d cum plerijue arbitrentur res ieUicai major a efc
fit am .rbamts, minuendacft hacofini*."
Cic. Off.
(Enteref according It law.)
" WILLi AM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in Pennfylvmia) had the success of a con
queror, in cftablilhiog and defending his colony, a
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodness o( the moll benevolent rulers, in trea
ting hii fubjefts as his ownchildren ; and the tender
ness of an universal lather, who opened his arms to
ell mankind without diftinflion ol feft or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, hut per
sonal merit, that entitled every member ot society to
the protcftio* and emolument of the State "
EJJay on Toleration, by Arthur O'Ltary.
CONDITIONS.
1. This work will be primed in two o&avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in fher and
calf, for the choice ol the fubferihers; on paper limi
lartothatof the conditions, as fullijhcd 1* the Subjcrip-
Hon papers.
IK The head of William Penn, handsomely en-
S raved, will be prefixed to th< firlf, and a map or
tetch of Penrdytvknia, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
Ill" The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calf! —one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubferibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the full volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery otthe second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out to press a*d finiltied with
•11 convenient expedition.
Subfcrfptions will be received by Zschaiiah Poul
fsn, jun. Printer, Nor 80, Chef'jut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-flreet { by Ifaic Col
lins. Printer, and Jofcph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pleafanis and George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other perfoni both
intown and country.
February 18. tuAf
An elegant House in Arch-street.
TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
elegant House at the corner of Arch and Ninth-llrcct.
There are two draw ing rooms and One dining room
the Urged is 31 feet by a 6— and two are so con
nected by folding doors as to make but one. Alio,
five bed rooms, beside five ir. the garret, well frnilh
ed for fervanis. There are stables and a coac house,
with every convenience for a family. Enquire at No.
29, in North Seveath-ftrret, or at No. Tiß, Arch
ftreet.
Also to be rented for the summer season, a small
neat house and garden about 3 1-a miles from the
citv, with Rabies, and coach boufc, Enquire a above.
June 6. «aw 3 w
Wanted on Rentj
WITHIN seven miles of Philadelphia, a
Houfe with a Garden, suita
ble for the accommodation of a genreel small fa
mily, for which a suitable rent, will be given.
Any person having such an one to let, will be
pleased to leave informatics of the lituation and
terms at No. 43, North Third street.
June aa. eo 3t
UriCKNEr'j PATENT ARCH BRIDGE
A MY person defir6us of information rcfpeil-
J\ | ni r 'this new corillrtitjlion, nfay obtain it
without delay/by application pe. letter, or oth
erwise, to John Stirkney, merchant of Worces
ter, (Maflirhufetts) ho will make known
the many advantages .iriting from this banner
of building, ancUpoh application he will either
vend a patent right, or attend perfocally to lu
pei intend the building of any bridge required.
June ic, 1797" *eo»w.
To -be fold at Public Vendue, i\
To the tiigheft bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evansj the lign of the Indian
in the city of Baltimore, on the 15th
day of Oflober tiext, at it o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand aerts of land,
the property of William Dell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Wellminfter,
commonly called Little Winchester,-(the turn
pike road runs through a eonfidsrable part of
these lands) the tra<ft begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of absut twenty-three milts from Balti
more, and liw on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
he fold in tt£#u of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trait,
some of them high'jr improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr„ls.
ai so,
A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenlhurg, esteemed very good for Grass. ,
Richard Ponfonby,of Bladefilburgh, will shew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A traft of land ®f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the President's house in the Fede- ■
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeA, from'which may be fce» the
city of Walhingfon, Bladelifourgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles '
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenlhurg, will also shew this lind.
A liberal credit will be given for the gieateft
part of the purchase money. l"he terms will
be made known on the day of falc.
May 8 W3in
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Strett,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly alforted, very low on
Ihort credit.
March 6. §
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans'' Court,
•will ahfolutely be fold at PUBLlfc SALE, at
Cranberry, on iVednefJay, tbe tsd day of Augujl next, at
II o*c/oci t AMy alltbat valuable REAL ESTATE,
late belonging to the Rev, Gilbert T. Snowden, deceased,
lying in and near Cranberry, in tbe county.ef Middlesex,
torunjloip of South Brunfivici, Hate of New Jerfty, up
on the lower flage ro.idlcdding from Philadelphia to Neiv
Tori* A very elegant frameboufe in a beautiful and
healthy fttuation, pairted ivbite> xuith Venetian window
flutters, thirty feet front and thirty eight feet deep, two
rooms with a handsome hall or entry on tbe frfl floor,
three rooms on the second floor and two well-flnijhed gar
rets. In the rear of tbe house is an excellent two-flory
building 37 feet by 19, ctnfi/ling of a dining-room for
work people, fpadous pantries and a large kitchen, with
every convenience, and over these are three chambers for
servants. To tbe right is an additional building 18 f-et
front by 19 feet deep, conftfli-g of a chamber below and a
library above—under the whole are veryr fine cellars paved
with brick and conveniently partitioned. Tbe house is en
tirely new, built in a modern flyle, and completely and e
legantly flnijhed. Every room is hung with bells that
lead both to tie kitchen and the servants' apartments : there
is a pump of good water in the yard; and a flone and
brick pavement round the whole house, which is enclos
ed with a handsome raiting, with three gates in front.
The farm conftfls of one hundred and ftxty seven acres
with aproportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fente ; a gjidtn with pale fence ; a large bam, sta
bles, tarriage-loufe, cow-bovfes, [*fc. all new, and built
tn the befl manner : with two Orchards, one of 60 full
grown trees, tbe other is young and thriving, conffling of
aoo befl grafted fruit trees.
Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland,
of tbe befl quality, containing 37 acre*. Also a trad of
land within seven miles cf Cranberry, and I of tbe Cross
Koad» , containing one hundred and ffty acres, three-fourths
meadow and the red excellent timber.
This TraQ will be fold in lots on Thursday, tbe I.4th
day of Augufl following, at II o'clock, A M, on tbe
premises if the weather permits, if not at the house of
Mr. Wither ill, Cross Roads.
For farther particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,efq.
Cranberry, of Mr. lfaac Snowden,jun. No. 141 South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or cf Mr* Charles Snowden
Tontine Cojee-Houfe, Nerv fork, or of tbe fubferibers.
ISAAC SNOWDEN,Princeton! . . . ..
•JACOB FISHER, Cranbetry j Adm,mjrfkri
N. B. Phe sale of tbe above property was aavertized
for tbe I4tb infl. but the Adminiflrators were not able to
get tbe tivo separate Trails laid out into Lots, and other
matters arranged, on account of the indifpofttion of one of
them, it was therefore adjourned to the days above mention
ed. §6tmwftf June 19*
A Literary Treat.
JuJl publi/bed, handsomely printed on writing
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular und entertaining
work, antitled
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
a sequel to the history of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, with th« ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
tranfa&ions in America.
Th« following extraS from the Claris Allegorica,
shews the principal charaflers that arc introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
His Mother, the Cfarch of England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Siller Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
HisMillrcfs, the Old Conllitution
His »«w Wife, the National Rcprefentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
Tbe Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hamplhire
John Codline, Massachusetts
Humphrey Plowlhare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Fr»g, New-York
Julius Csefar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
. Calfimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Wafliington
Peter Plteh, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, Sotitk Carolina
George Trufly, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
HUuter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
1 "Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
gy- This popular and entertaining fatiricalhifto
• ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
. knap. It has a great (hare of originality and a
. bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
[ down tb the present time, and characfterifes those
late political ttanfaifticns which have caused so
much uneasiness in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, »ndNo- S°> Markc ftieet.
. June >s. J
t j JujT Pvbtifhtd,
: : And to be had of Meflrs. Do!- son, Campbell.Rjce,
" [ Csry, Mid the cthu- f ricipal Bookfcllers in t"ve
1 I city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
r ' New' Views of the Origin of the
' , Tribes and Nations of America.
. ' By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. jd.
I June jo. * tr
45>000 pieces of Nahkeehs
250 boxes brown Havannah Sugars
Imperial Hyson Teas 1
17 tubs Quick Silver
Sail Canvas, No. 1 a 8
A large alfortment of Nails, foarp and flat paint?
Queens Ware, well allotted in crates and hhds.
London Particular and 7 ** j • . «»•
India Market } Madelines
Teneriffe Wine in bhds. and pipes
Bottled London Porter in tierces
Fine Yellow Paint, dry in calks
Writing Slates in boxes and bundles
A box of Ink Stands and Note Prefies
Manchester Goods in chests
3 trunks block Sewing Silk
6 tons of Sheet Lead
Best Liverpool Coal, and
A quantity of Wine Bottles
For Sale by ,
Philip Nicklin, & Co.
Juue 24« Stawtf |
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
JnJl Imported, (
In the Ja'tfH William Penn and Star., from and
noiv opening by 1
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
A T his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134, (
ZV Market street
An elegant, aiiortment ot Clk, cotton and thread
Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c.
Likewise, a handsome assortment of men's, wo
men's, and children's fafhionable Hats, fuitablc for
the Season.
A cenfiderable quantity of low and middle priced
Hat s aflorted in cases, intended for country stares.
May 33. taw
To Let,
THE BUILDING now occupied by the Bank
ot THE Unitid States. For terms en
quire of Edward Garrigues, No. 39, Cherry-street.
N. B. Also a large, convenient Cellar in a good
situation : Apply as above.
June IJ • cots
COTTON.
A few bales just arrived, for sale by
JOHN CLARK,
No. 55 North Water Street.
June 10. •°rf.
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the WoodropSjms, and for sale by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June 25. ' e®tf
Davis's Law Book Store y
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING bulled f»r but time pall in prepara
tions for removing into his present house, hat
been under theneceflityof peflpaninguntil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
tbe United States, that his fpriug importation of
law books is now arranged and ready fW lale, on
terms that he trulU will entitle him to the like pre
ference he hat experienced for leveral years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion ever imported into this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application. >
Jone 27. law 6w
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and mail
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive collection ev
er offered for sale in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
connexions in Dublin, they are enabled to felllrilh
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 2
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgcway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer's Procters
Practice in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A<3 ion % 2
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, I* vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rki expert t» receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and Kail's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 26.
Jay's Inftru&ions.
On MONDAT lafl, was publijhed,
By SNOWDEN M'CORKLE,
No. 47, North Fourth Street,
And to be haa of the -principal BOOKSELLERS,
No. V,
Of the History of the United States
for 1796, &c.
This and the preceding number present the pub
lic with a copy of Jay's Instructions, a per
formance anxiously concealed by the Executive
from the House of Reprcfentatives, and the con
tents of which have excited the most ardent curio
sity.
This nu&iber likewise contains some singular and
autht'tic papers relative to Mr. Alexander Hamil- -
trn, late Secretary of the Treasury. No greater
proof can b« given ot the value whica he has at*
tached to their fupprcjfmn, than the following anec
dote.
" During the late canvass for the slecliori of a
« President, Wehfter, in his Minerva, gavu a hint,
" that Mr. Hamilton would be an advifeable can
" ttidate. A petfon in this city, who chanced to
" fee this newfpiper, wrote immediately to a cor
« respondent in New-York. The letter desired him
"to put himfclf in Mr- Hamilton's way, and in
" form'him, that if Webster (bould.in future, print
" a Cugle paragraph on that head, the papers refer
" cd to were, inllailtly, to be laid before the world.
" <Th, mtjjagc vans dtinrrrfd ti Mr. Hamilton, and tbe
" Minerva becamcjilent /"
\ June 24, taw2W
0 This Day is Published,
Aud fold by H. & I. Kammerer, jun. No.
'' 24, North Third-jlreet,alfo, by Mr. Hen
ry StrEtTXER, No. 85, Racc-Jireet,
(Price half a Dollar neatly bound)
The Man of real Sensibility ;
Or, The HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISOtf.
e Founded on Fast.
'* The elegant Edition of the Elements of Moral
-2 j ity 9 'R two vols, illuftrattd with twenty cojiper
pla cs, may also be had as above, price, fall boutfd
and gilt, two dollars and fifty ccnta.
HAi. K junrs. have on hand a quantity of No, t
and z Writing Paper,
City bf VV&ftiingtori.
SCHEME i
Of the Lottery,' No. it, r
Far the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwcllittg-houfe 20,c0b dollars, g
& cash 30,000, ate 50,000 t
• i ditto 15,000 & cj& 25,000 40,000 c
1 ditto 15,000 8t ca(h (5,000 30,000 f'
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000 d
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 .
1 ditto 5,000 8c caih 5,w8 10,000 1
1 cash prise of 10,000 7
% do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000 j
10 da. 1,000 - - to,ooo £
20 db. - - to,®oo
00 do. 100 - - 10,000 j
200 do. 50 - - jo, 000 (
400 do. 25 - 10,000
1,000 do. 2® - 10,000 -
15,00® do. 10 - 150,000
16,739 Pri?es.
33,261 Blanii.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar*, 400,000 J
M. Sk. Tofavour thofc wh# may a quan- 1
tity of Tickets,the priii of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one : J
And approved notes, securing payment in either '
mongy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will 1
be received for any number not lets than 30 tick
ets. . '
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of 1
the private buildings to be ertiled in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
lele&ed so» the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it is proposed to erecl
two centte and 'out corner buildings,ai soon as pos
sible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&iori of five per ceilt. will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &C. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univeruty, to
be erected within tha city of Wafhingtou.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by ti c President and two Direct
ors as the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL ULODGET.
Tieketsmay be had at the Bank ol Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard W«lle, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf.
C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladifi and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia and it] vicinity, that he
continues to perform all operations on the Teeth ; sup
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
teeth, in all the various modes of fixiog —Cleans,
files, regulates, extrafts, and fills decayed teeth with
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waits upbm Ladies and
Geetlemcn at their houses, and will be happy to re
ceive their commands by note, at Mis. Fimcv's, No.
68 north Eighth street, or at bis house. next to the
Black Hotfc Tavern, oa the Frankford road.
Dollars.
Scaling and cleaning 5
Artificial teeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5
Do. in gold sockets or screws 7
Natural :eeth with ligatures 7
Do. on gold orivory lockets, or go Id screws 10
Filing and cutting away dotay—each decay »
Filling with gold a
Do. with lead 1
Eotraftingfto the families who employ him
as dentist) t
Do. where not employed >
Tooth powder of his own preparing 1
Brulhes, bell London manufacture 15 cents.
Regulating, &c. according to the operation.
C- Whitlock will (ell the time of a Negro
Man ; —be is honed and sober, and has about j years
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
June i 6 s3 tthtf
Lane after, Harrijburg Carlifie,
Sbippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnerihip which has fsr some time sub
sisted between Mathias Sleugh of Lancafler, and
William Geer, is now dissolved: but, not as M.
Slough infinaates to the public without jnft cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fnb
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not row deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the mints of
this bufiaefs, by applying to W. Geer may, have
the pernfal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether cr not W.
Geer is not perfedly juftifiabie in attaching liim
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
arg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal ;uul generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firit effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to proCecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch chat a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
, render the paffagc his and commodious, inform
thor* wno-wifh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harriiburg,
Carlifie and Shippcnfburg. The fare as hitherto
eft blifhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
, bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday, :
and return from theoce and arrive at Harrifburg
! every Saturday, so that pa Hangers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed an Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEEK.
! Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797-
N. B. This Line «f Stages starts from the
' house of William Ferriie, in Lancaster, on every
, Tuelday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the weft ward i and trom the house of
, Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg e.very Wednef
. day morning, oh the fame evening arrives at Pa
t trick Cochran's in Shippcnfburg, rod returns
Trom thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour Lm Ptiiadel
t phta. mwt ' i
A Cow Stolen
' ROM the owner at the corner of Ninth
and Arch streets. She is a deep red
• brindle with some white, about ten years
- old and very gentle. The person who se
cretes her had best turn her out, as, if legal
evidence can be obtained, he may expeft a
rigorous prosecution. TWO DOLLARS
reward will be given to any person who will
deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a
- gainst the person. keeping .her, that he may
11 b'e convicted of the fa£h Apply at
■ No, 218, Arsh Strtst.
June 9. taw3w
William Blackburn, 1
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE 1
No. 64 south Secondfirect.
TICKETS jn the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 119 th May, FOR
3ALE- The price of tickets will rife in propor%
tiop as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five tirft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thouiand dollars each, on the lad day of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination snd register
ing, in the Canal, No. City of Washington, No.
i, and Patcrfon Lotteries.
Also, tickfcts forfale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomeu Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing is the course of the summer.
The bufmefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c-&c. tranfadted with the
| utmost »:tenti«n. •
June 2 tuJtf
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Trafts of Land,
IN the county of Glynn and state of Georgia,,
will be fold by public at eight o'clock:
on the evening of Tuesday the 27th day of June
net*, at (lie Merchants Coffee House in this ci
ty, unless previously disposed of by private sale.
ill. 7000 acres 011 St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Frederic* and Turtle rivers, ad-,
joining the commons of the town of Brunfwick,
originally granted to John Howell, and with : ;i
6 miles of the Atlantic ocean.
id. 15,000 acres op the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'JSTeal.
3d. 50,000 acres on the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road pafles through
these lands, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally .grated ten
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, furveytor, and from Major
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the
body of these lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide water;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large
veflels within ten miles of them ; that they are
chiefly firtl rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
poflefiing the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementioned certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andother papers rcfpefling
-ihe title, which is complete and unincumbered*
are in the poffefiion of the fubferibers and may
be feea by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third calh, the remaining two
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the sale j a
conveyance to be made to each purchafcr on the
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extra<3 of an a<sl passed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 29th December,
1 entitled, ti An a£t for creeling a bridge
.over Potowmac river
be it enaHed, that the jfaid dire&ors or
any two «f them /hall and may require ajiy sum
or funis of money in equal proportion from -rath
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necessary for carrying on the building of said
bridge; and after giving Arte months public
notice, it fhall-and may be lawful for the direc
tors to fut for and recover in the name of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all colt's
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interelt
thereon from the time the fame should have
been paid: And the neglefl or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice lhall have
been given at least for three months in all the
newspapers herein before enumerated, fliall have
the ene<3 to forfeit all preceding paymenfs mad,-
on the shore or shares so negtafled or refufed to
be paid w the use and benefit of the company."
mation of such of the ftoskholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore rrnie
—they are as follow : On the ift November,.
1795, ao dollars, on the loth May, 1796, 4 »
dollars; an the iothjuly, 1796, 40 dollars j on
the ift September, 1796, 4 o dollars, and on the
ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertife--
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effetf against all delin
quents.
By order of the Directors,
IVALTER SMITH, Treasurer.
Georgetown, .May 1, 1797. iaw?m
~ T O B E SO L
A valuable three (lory Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on which itftinda, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth.ftreet. The houle is about 50
feet in front on Lndgealley, and about 4! feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
t-ront on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth
ftreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
, .street and into Dock-street at file
thorfemarket. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dini»g
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four fee., each containing
> two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with extensive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
; ef ground to the eastward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handfopie piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on
•Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
£.3 l}! per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Stotker.
■ A P nl »° ' ?awtf
"John crXTCT -
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Thomas, and for sale on re 4 fonable.terr.ia
| iby the package
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
.' Roueni
Post and Ri d Patn'-* Paper
•Wafers ,
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
; Coffceßags
He has also fir Sale,
\ Best &ed Clover Seed
Old M adeira Wine, fit for immediate use
; IV.eciffe Wine of firft and second Quality
[ Coffee in Bags and Hogiheads
Jamaica Spirits
Conne&iuut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of be*t Patent, Silk and Cottaa
Hosiery
Aj il jB. 4a\v