oa?e:te °f States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1357.] FRIDAT JANUAIir 13, 1797. [VOLVMB XI.
A Pririting-Office for Sale ;
Situate in the city of Bunington, on the river De- f
laware, about 10 miles from Philadelphia.
Confuting of u
French Cannon, Roman and Italic j]
Double Pica, ditto ditto t
English, ditto ditto f
Small Pica, ditto ditto
Do. on Piea body, 'itto ditto
Two line letters —Flowers
A good Manogany Prefe—lmpofing Stone
-Also, Chafes, Gallics, Co*ipofing-fticks, Racks,
Furniture, &c. complete.
The situation is eligible for bnfinefs, and the office
■Calculated to execute any kind of work The terms
are reafanable. Apply to H. Kammerer, jr. Crown-
street, near Kacerllreet, at No. 43, Race-street, or
of ilr John Neale, Burlington. j
January 10 J
Particular Teneriife Wine. ]
g
50 Quarter-calks Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a superior quality, j
For Sale by
A. Marple & Israel W. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-street. ]
January n
A BALL.
1
J. DOZOL's BALL
Will be held en MONDAY NEXT, the i6th of
January, at Mr O'Ellers'a Hotel, and continue every
fortnight during the season
Sentlemen's Tickets, at one dollar each, to be had
at the bar of the above Hotel, where Ladie< who
choose to honor him with their «ompany, may also be
supplied with Tickets.
J. DOZ.OL refpefifully informs the Ladiei and
Gentlemen, that he will continue his
Dancing-School
at the above Hotel. Hour* of attendance for Ladies
are from 10 to 1 in the nipming, and for Gentlemen
from 6 to 9 in the evening, Mondays, Wed*eidays,
and Fridavs, during the feafen.
N. B. Private LefTons wilt be given, either at his
fchcol or at thehoufe- of thpfe who may favoi him.
January/12 3 ,
, Boarding and Lodging
May be had at No. 6a, Penn-ftreet, in a creditable
family I
January 9
% -FOR SALE,
fajl-faihng Jehotmer ORION;
-WvSr Seventy tonsburthan 5 fifteen months
11 n 1 i her frame is of the bell of white
eak : tht is 1 1 faithful built vessel, handsomely finifhed off
and well found in every particular; is ready to rcceivfl a
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any cx
pence on her hull, fails or rigging : (he (lows fix hundred
barrels; has a handsome cabin and steerage, and a half
dedk which will flow from ftventy-five to cigh.y barrels;
has been ncwlv canlkeJ graved and painted. For t-rms
»pp| y to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At NO. 170, corner of Mr.rket ai>4 Filth-streets,
Or to the Captain on board laid fchooncr at Mclfrs.
Willis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-llrcet
wharf; where ther; is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
thebeft of American Mess Beef, and,fome very excellent
Boston rr.anufadlMred Chocolate. i
December 26
fit For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nanct,
Cuthbcrt Riggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paffagc apply to
William Bell }«
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 1 boxes Linens
25 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Rulßa Matts.
Also,
I A few barrels Prime IRISH BEtF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
v-t FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MJRT,
mm, BAMUEL PARK>ER ' MAStbr,
hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, fne will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
O&ober 31. d
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,
Burthen 205 47"9J tGl>s register, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1792,, of live oak
and red cedar, and was sheathed 13 months ago, (he
has jult had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
pbilip Ntckhn tsf Co.
rrJ.o have for file on hoard said vejel,
calks of fine ycllo.v pamt.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of wr-iting Hates.
I box ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial
Hyson, and, f TEAS.
Souchong J ..
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firft quality.
19 tubs Qnickfilver. .
t chests Bandanno handkerchiefs. ~ _
A few chufts Manchester goodswell assorted m Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, MuSinets, Dimrties,&c.
3 boxes black fewingfilk.
ifco crates Qiieens ware well assorted.
10 tons Iheet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and flsarp points.
■Londo* Particnlar, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, r an( j hogfticads.
New-York Market, J .
40 pipes and 10 hogsheads Teneriifcwine.
t tierces Snake Root.
130. log* Mahogany. rfhrf-f
, ov " '»•
ey notice.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United Sutes, in the
North-Wcltern Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public papers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4 _§
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. a.5,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spanish Swanfdown
Glouasd lirminats and Moleskins
Striped do. a«d do. >
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts ' '
Do. Caflincts and Caffimeres
Superfine printed Quiltings, lleweft patterns
Alio, per different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry F
Goods,
Soft-able to the prcfent and approaching leafon.
November 5. / dtf
SALT PETRE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
November c.
Elegant Brussels k Turkey Carpeting,
| For sale by George Dobfod, No. 25, South Thicd-ftreet.
December 15. dtf
~ THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who qaitted Ireland i« 1783, or 1184, and came into
this Country, ('tis supposed to Philadilphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of the highest importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street I
December 31. w & sim
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels ■
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Harring ir. barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfiih, from one to fifty kcnlals
Fine and eoarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French PUfter of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and ftticco-work
December I. ,| ■
Imported from London Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates knd hoglheads, well
assorted
Wine Bottles in hampers
Wndow GUIs of all fi7«« '
T»a ftatioiiary
One cheitof yellow Jefuiu Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
A small confignmtnt of Rose Blankets, Flarinek,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paint. of various colors.
Bafcet fait in hoglheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hoglheads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different tizes
A few trunks of ladies French ihoes aflorted
Silk nankeen,&c.
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, consisting ok
ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, ftripss, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias, &c»
And for sale by tlie packagc only by
Thomas & John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf. <
Nov. if. , * eot^
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marili
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
lour separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South
Oaober 31. mwftf
Notice.
THE Advertiser is a person regularly bred, and has
e carried on in an extensive manner for these 30 vears
pall,the various branches of Goldftniths' and Jew
ellery, plated and hard-ware Cutlery, and Ironmonjte
- ry bufmcfn, and has general knowledge of the Dry
Good and many other businesses. He has a particular
taste for building, has built extensively so:- himfelf,
has conduced buildings for others, and is of opinion
tljat his ifrvices to any gentleman that might be in
n went of a person to conduit any of the aforcfaid bufi
k nefies, would not only be ufeful but an acquisition, as
e he will engage 011 liberal terms, either as a falrfman
a or to fell on commission as an agent, ad as a partner or
take the care of a manufactory, or superintend hoild
ing, &c. He is a married man, and having no-family
but hie wife who would aft as a saleswoman or houle
keeper. No objeflion to any part of the Southern
Hates, or to take a voyage to Europe as a fupercar»o.
Aline dil-eifted to J. C. to the care of the printer,
will be attended to.
N. B. He is well acquainted with sftoft of the Eng
lish, Irish, and Scotch manufactories, as he carried on
'bulineft for ten years in London, but 011 account of
unavoidable misfortunes in his country, he is now for
ced to leek for a living for himfelf and wife in this
way, and he flatters himfelf that he will give entire
fttisfafUon to his employer. And as he is well known
in this city, and t<» the inoft refpeflable characterS on
the continent,doubts not bat his character, morality
r- and indefatigable indulti y, will bear the ftrifleft •»-
c. quirv
Dec. IS.
Wanted on hire,
A Cook, or female —also a man servant to at
tend in a private family and perform the duties' be
-5 longing to the dining room. None need apply who
( io not understand and have not been accuAoined to the
rcfpeilive fervicesa'nd who are not well recommended
for honelty and good behavior.
Apply at No. 12a, "Mulberry-fired, or to tbe printer,
f January
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 15, South Third-ftrest,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon- al
don, an assortment of J;
Scarlet J
Drab / Cloaks trimmed with hir and w
Purple and ( ermine.
Pearl J 7
December 15. § 1
Wm, Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by tb« late arrivals, p
A Well SeletliJ Assortms.nt of C
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and £
Haberdaftiery Goods, *
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
low eft terras ; w
Amortgft which are /
Somtf elegant and 7-8 Chintz«s ani Cottony new ai
patterns 0
Ditto Furniture ditto P
Ditto Diniity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muflifli
Ditto in Gold and Silver I
Dkto Neckcloths, very fine
| M&ntuas of the firft quality
and Cotton Holiery
Umbrellatj of the firft quality, afTorted
Irish Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes f
Rose Blanlcets afforted—&c. &c. t
OAobffr a 6. d r
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds, fc
Roots, hfc. &c.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-streets,
A moji capital and sxtenjt-ve Assortment of j
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS, t
ROOTS, See. See.
Among which are,
Five kinds Asparagus Three kinds Cresses *
Four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radifli
Beets Fifteen Turnip
Ekven Brocoli FiftetfH Peas
i'wenty*fix Cabbage Si* Savoy
Six Carrot Four Parsnip
Three Cauliflowerf i'wenty-tkrec Melon
Five Celery j T]wenty-one v Lottuce
Ten Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The above from a capital Seedsman in Londen, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
free. 17. dtf.
v ' Just Landing,
At Soutb flreet -wharf, from an board the ship Swig
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Pcterflurg,
The following Goods :
Russia Sail Duck, firft quality. ,
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Dd. Huckaback.
Do Crash.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the lb/of the
Engiifh size.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do* White Soaw in l'mall boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn*
Ravens Duck.
lfinglafs, 1(I a&d ,and fort,
Horse Mair uncurkd.
RuQia B?r Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
k Do. Nail Rods.
{ 10 Tons Oakum And Junk.
) St. Peterfljurg Clean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
October 1 a. §
Cheap French China.
i THE fubferibers finding it impossible to supply their
s i flore' with any more China from France, the prices
. | being too immoderate in the mauufafleries, give no
. J tiee that they will fell at prime coll the remaining
f deck on hand, consisting of
r Deflert Setts,
, Tea-Table Setts
! Separate Cups and Saueeri
j Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vases
5 Looking Glafft-s, in gilt frimes,
1 Befidrt India Japan'd Toilet Delks, Chairs, Tables
r nad Qaadrille Boxes. PASQUIER & Co.
No. 91, South Second-street.
Deeember ?th. tts
j For Sale,
Bj J. WARDER, PARKER Co.
' An Invoice of Cordage,
Consisting of different sizes, from 12 inch cables down
I to rope of a inches, of different lengths: Imported in
f the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
_ Sent. 17. 1 . .dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-ST&EET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeflional friends,
and the Gentlemen ef the Law, generally, through the
y Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
" ed, fcnd ready tor Sale, from a single volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which (orfcvtral years paxt have in so diftinguilhed a
manner recommended them'to notice.
Printed Catalogues.combining the most extensive collec.
. lion ct the latcrt EngliJh and lrith Editions ever imported
into this country, are pabiilhed, and wili be delivered gtitif
) on application.
Orders addrciTed to 'G. D. in writing fvom any* d.ftaace
(hall be punfiuaiiy attended to.
II A number of IR-UNKS for Saje. '
AL!>O, TO BE LET,
A convenient Lo>l . urarMaikei reel Wharf.
ov,B. * ' tu&fow-
A CARD.
If Monjieur G. H. Souls,
Who left Bordeaux the loth June I id, ind arrived
at Bolton j.bout th« middle of Anguft, in the fehoonef
Jane, it in Philadelphia, he it requested to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. $, Chefrtut-flreet, who
will give him foiee i»fortftation of importance.
December 24, 1796. ' §
In Crder to cimply with contracts, I -will fell, far
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments %
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Frsderickfburg, beginning op*
polite to the lower corner of Dodlor Wellford's, on
Caroline-Areet, and running up to the croft street
leading to Fitihugli's ferry, and from thence Kick ta
Sophia-street. This square I have laid off into 14 lets,
tj and an half feet fro»t, and ui back, li on Caco
line-ftrect, and 12 on Sophia-street. Nine of those
oa Carol ine-flreet I have leafed on an annual ground
rent of I and 10 pounds, to the amount ef 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purchaser could enhance the value
of by building small houses, which will as readily
procure tenants a> pott or guards will Martifls in the
spring, and yield a greater profit in proportion to
their cost than large buildings. Those who incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
HBNRY FITZHUGH.
Beli-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d4W
Notice to Creditors.
The Aflignees of Bernard Dougherty late of Bed*
ford County, will make a dividend of the eff*<9» in
their hands, immediately after the firft day of Februa*
ry next to such Creditor! as may furnifh their account*
btfore that time.
Thomas Smith
Thomas Fitafimons f , —
Isaac Hazlehurft C
Miers Filher J
Philadelphia, Jan. 9, 1794. diw
WANTED"
A MKCHjINIC, to erefl Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such as are Used at my manufac
tory—Apply to JAMES DAVENPORT,
No. 401, North Ffont-ftreel.
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic)
and a man of liability.
Globe Mill, Deeemler 19, 1796. J
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial C Hyson Skin.
Hyson, > Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, j C. Bohea
Dtc. 0 itsw?m.
Philadelphia, fan. 4th, 1797.
All persons indebted to tha Estate of
Joseph Paschaljl, deceased,
ARE requested to pay their refpedlive debts without
further delay, otherwise their accounts will be put int©
the hands of au Attorney to recover—And all those who
have any demands againfl said Estate are deftrcd to bring
in their accounts for iettlemeat, t®
SAMUEL CO ATES, "J
CHRISTR. MARSHALL, jun £ ExVi.
CHARLES MARSHALL. J eox
Public Notice,
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to Hie
judges of the Supreme Court of this date, to supply the
<)efe£t in my Title to a lot of ground, situate on the Weft
fide «f Fourth-street, containing in breadth 10 feet, and
in length.s6 feet, bounded Northwardarid Westward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippen, and Eastward by Fourth-street, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lcwir
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux.
—Ali persons concerned, are required to appear before
two of the justices of the said court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief Justice of the state, oa
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
answer to the bill 0/ the fubferiber, filed in the office ef
Edward Burd.cfq. Prothonotary of the said Court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dt3oth
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Bank of Pennsylvania,
r January 4, 1797.
5 At a meeting of the Dife£lors th's.day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars on each shire was declared for the last
' 6 months, which will lie paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, CaOuer.
Jan. 3. dtf.
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
8 Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
» Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different flics
liazlenuts, in sacks
, Whiting
wEfXad { ""«•
a & Spanish Brown J
" For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 $
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thoufani
Dollars.
'' He is 3 years eld, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
[. water j lie h'as drank some days forty bottles of porter,
# drawing the corks with his trunk.
a He is perfectly inoffertfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five railes an hour, and it the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, ire
,s Mark-et-llreet between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
"e after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
BseemUer 31 4New Theatre..
THIS EVENING, FRIDAY, January 13,
Will be prcfented,
A COMEDY, called
The School for Scandal.
Sir Peter Teazle, Mr. Bates
Sir Oliver Surface, Mr. Morris
Joftph Surface, . Mr. Wignell
Charles Surface, Mr. Moreton
Sir Benjamin Backbite, Mr. Fox
Crahtree, Mr. Har-wood
(Sareleli, Mr. Blijfett
Sir Harry, with a fang, Mr. Darley
Rowley, Mr. War reft
Moles, Mr. Francis
Saake, Mr. Darley, jun.
Trip, Mr. IVarrell, jun.
Lady Teazle, Mrs. Morris
Lady Snecrwell, Mrs. Harvey
Mrs. Candour, firft time, Mrs. Qldmixon
Maria, Mrs. Francis
To which will be added,
A Comic-Opera, in a afb, called
Peeping Tom of Coventry.
Peeping Tom, with the song of the Little
Farthing Rush-light, Mr. Bates
Mlyor of Coventry, Mr. Warren
Harold, . Mr. Darley, jun.
Crazy, Mr. Francis
Earl ef Mercia, Mr. Fok
Count Lewis, . Mr. J. Warrell
Maud, Mrs. Oldmixon
Emma, Mrs. Worrell
Lady Godiva, Mil»OldJieU
Mayoress, Mrs. L'EJtrange
Box, Ona Dollar twen«f-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Off Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's Book-store,
No. 59 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'cleck.
Places for the Boxes to ue taken at the Office in the
■front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a qvirter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, .as soon as the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
VIVAT RESPUBLICA !
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNEL I,
Refpcflfully informs the Public, that
On SATURDAY EVENING, Jan. 14, at 7 o'clock
Will be delivered,
(first part)
THE EFFECTS OF RfLyENCJE,
Exemplified by feleflions from th<r
eharafler of Zanga, Dr. Young
(second part)
THE PROGRESS OF JEALOUSY TRACED
In the eliara&er of Othello, Shakespeare
During which will be recited
speech to the Senate
The celebrated scene with lago
And the molt ftfiking paflages during his paroxyfin df
jealousy *
(third part.)
THE EFFECTS'OF JEALOUSY,-
Exemplified in
Othello's soliloquies before and after the murder ef
Defdemona
Alonzo's soliloquies before and after the death of
Leonora
With critical observations on the authors.
Subscriptions are received by Mr.Zaohariah Poulfon,
jun. at the Library, where the Ladies and Gentlemen
who may be inclined to honor the undertaking with
their patronage, are refpcflfully requeued to fend
their names and receive their tickets.
Oecafional admflfion tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfen,
Jun. at the Library ; at mr. M'Elwee's looking-gkrfs-ftore,
No. 70, South Fourth-flreet ; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
eller, Market-street—Hals a dollar each.
Mas. G RATTAN
Refpeflfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the iothday of January,
?he propefes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftreet, a
Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
IJook Muslins, from 6/3 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 2/8 10 g/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/10 per yard
Fine (JolTae*
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 t» 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to ff per hclkf.
Book muslin HandkcrchiKs from 5/3 to tq/6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from ic/S to 11/11
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Tahle Cloths
Kuu>ubuck T Dwelling
Women's Cotton Hole, from 6/3 to ijJper pair
Dimity from 5/10 to 6/11
Men's Silk Hole
TambeurM muslin Handkerchiefs from iifn to 1 jfl
lriffl linens for Gentleiren's.Shirts, from s/S t0 2/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &e. &c.
Houfhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain ihirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars.
> A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain (hirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars.
A plain (hirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A fill ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain lhirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollirs.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-1 collars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Janu.rv 13. §
Bank of the United States,
January 2nd, 1797.
The have this cl.ty declared a Dividend of
Sixteen Dollars cn each Share for the last fix months,
which will be paid to the Stockholders after the 12th
jjitsnt. G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
CONGRESS OF ths UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, January 2, concluded.
The order of the day was next called for on the
report of the committee of ways and means, on the
balances due from individual states to the United
States. The Hou-fe accordingly entered into a
committee of the whole on the fubjefl, Mr. Muh
lenberg in the chair, when
Mr. Cooper said he had no expectation when
this business was firft brought foiward, that he
should have taken any part in the debate that
might arise on the mode of dunning the state c£.
New York for a balance of two millions 01
dollars said to bs due to the United States Yet,
when he heard a gentleman from ConneClicut,
(Mr. Coit) fecm to pride himfelf that a settlement
had been made, and our state iound in debt, and
treating our complaints of errors in that settlement,
ai laughable or ehildilh j when he heard a gentle
man from New-Jersey (Mr. Dayton) dcclarc, in a
serious tone of voice, that no consideration would
ever induce him to relinquish that claim ; although
errors may have exiftej, ■itbuugh frauds may have
j|een introduced, although we may have mauy large
and just demands not brought forward at the time
of settlement, notwithstanding all this, it seems
the gentleman's ears are shut to our complaints.
When' he heard a gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
Nicholas) bring forwaid a resolution to fequeftratr,
or in milder words, withold the ttock which the
state of New-York has in the funds of the United
States : when he heard a gentleman from Georgia
(Mr. Ealdwin) who had been on the floor of
Congress almost from the beginning ; when he-had
heard that gentleman, with ail his experience in
the money concerns of the nation, declare, that the
United States was always conCidered indebted to
to the state of New York until the (ettlement was
made, and by this declaration bringing into view
high-toned evidence that errors, did fxilt against us,
in that fettlemt nt ; for 1 contend, said Mr. Coop
er, that men and governments always have a pretty
carreCt idea ®f their general concerns. T<j hear
all this and he silent, said he, would be critr.inal :
yet to argue on the fubjeft, feenaed t» be of little
use ; for, when we look the United States in the
face, and demand of them neither more nor less
than fnbftantial justice; when we complain that
egregious errors exist in the general settlement ;
when we state that many just charges of large a
mount were not brought forward ; when we state
that large quantities of wheat was delivered by our
state to the armies of the United States, at the
deprefTed price of one dollar per buftiel, according
/to a price-limi'ing ftatutc of onr state, exilting at
that time, and certificates ifiued by the officers for
this less than quarter price; when we state that
some other states received certificates at five dollars
per bushel for their quotas of wheat, and that th»f«
certificates counted on their face at the time of
liquidation and settlement with ours ; when we
state that powder-houses were eredted at the ex
pecee cf our state, and the proceeds turned!intd
the magazines of the United States, and the charges
never brought in at the general settlement : when
we complain of these hardships, what answer do we
receive ? Why, from Connecticut, the settlement
is had ; we do not understand you ; —from Massa
chusetts, a still more disagreeable tone, e*enaTort
p{ intimation that we are quibblers ; —from New
Jersey, a solid declaration that n» consideration
ought to diminish or dismiss this demand—giving
our complaints to the wind, without a hearing ; —
from Virginia, a Jlill mire tough fill, even an attempt
to fcquejlrate our Jlock. And why, or for what
cause, are we thus roughly bandied? Is it, said
he, because our government, in eider to keep up
the armies of the United States, gave a bounty of
fix hundred acres of land to fuel} as would serve
tlirte years ? Is it because our leaports were in the
hands of the enemy during the whole our
towns consumed with fire, and our merchants driven
to the mountains ? Is it because our frontiers were
over-run with white men from Canada, and lavages
from the wilderness—our floaiifliing villages laid
waste, and the inhabitants carried into savage cap
tivity ? Is it because our miodle counties bore the
burthen of being the feat of our own armies for
several years? Or is it be k -».ufe the revenue which
our state produces to the union, is not more than a
quarter of the whole revenue of the United States,
that feverah states, whose revenue to the union is
next to nothing, are so deaf to our complaints of
errors and hardlhips on our part in that settle
ment ?
What opinion, Jfaid Mr. C. should we have of a mer
chant, who (liould refufe to correct an error of great
amount in a fettlenftent made with his fellow merchant,
but should plead the settlement, and thus hold what he
j had got by raiftake or by a trick ? Why this would be
his true charadter, that the man who is only bound by
the law, would do any .unjust thing were it net for law ;
yea he would if yon please, pick pockets, were it not
for the penalty that follows.
An honest man is never afraid to have his charges
examined again and again ; knowing that the more
the truth is rutbed the brighter it (hinesj, If the charge
of the United States against our {lata is a jtift one, it
will no; be the less so for a new heat wg. I again re
peat it, said he, what individual would refufe a re-ex
amination of his accounts, if stared in the face by a
fellow trader, fiating :hit he had obtained great part
cf his wealth by an error in fettlesnent ? No man
would, no man dare. Ihe frowns of society would
prostrate hinvfor ever were he to attempt it, and more
especially if theperfonof whom he had taken this ad
vantage, vasa man of good fame and »f equal (land
ing with himfelf. And, in this point of view, 1 con
tend, said he, that the state of New-York is of fuffi
ciefit refpofibility in the unior.; and of such reputation
as to her accounts, as to have a fair claim on the Uni
ted States, that an order may be had for a n«w hear
t
We further ccmplain bitterly of the rule under which
this settlement took place.
In (hort, said he, if it is honorable ; if it is dignified,
for the United Staies to refufe 11s a re-hearing, or at
tempt to sequestrate our stock, it is not less honorable,
it is not less dignified for our state to fell and transfer
their (lock in the public fund, »atid withold payment of
the fame until the errors which exist against us, can
' be cwrr<<3*'t. /,
I I (halt he aferd, said he, how this can be done ?On
! which lubjeiil I beg leave to advance one thought that
ha. struck my mind as * thing that would be fatisfa&c
ry to our Hate ; and no more than tubltantiaily hono
rable and just on the parte the United States, which
idea I (hajl oast before the committee, to the end that it
themeafure now before the committee Ikould prove in
efficient ; fomthißg on its basis may be adopted,—that
is that three commifiioners be vetted with full power
from the United States, to join three commiflianers
from our state, with like power. Let them hear and
determine whether any, and if any how much we are
in debt to the union. I have no doubt, said he, such
a measure would be fatisfaftory to our legislature, and
I believe if found in debt, they would take order for
payment- Should Congress refufe a re-hearing of the
juil complaints of that settlement, as it relates to our
state, which is intitled to this fort of tender dealing ;
I (hall be for no provif.on being made to pay the de
mand. On the other hand, should Congress offer this
reasonable and fair thing of a re-hearing ; and our state
refnle or negleiS toacfl; I (hall be greatly disappointed
in their attachment to the general government which
I am sure i# firm and of a durable nature.
Mr. Havens said, when these refutations were
firft proposed, he did not think them very excep
tionable, being brought forward on the plausible
.ground of giving information to the different states
of (he Aims in which they flood indebted ; but, if
his infoimation was right, notification had already
been made to the different Hates, of the arjiount of
the balances found against them, and, therefore,
these resolutions could only be looked upon as lead
ing to something further, even to comuulfory
means being used to obtain a settlement. In this
point of view, though thtrefolutions contained no
thing dire<S!y objectionable, they became fa, and
it behoved the reprefentalives of New York to op
pose tUtm.
Though Mr. H. said he was not authorized to
fay what was the opinion of the legislature of New-
York of the settlement in question, amongst the
moll enlightened citizens of that state, he knew it
was conttdcred not only as unjitfl as to principle, but
verygieatly erroneous, ao.d highly injurious. tA that
state. He thought it probable that this was the
opinion sf tht legislature also ; afld fubftttitial jus
tice required that any error in any account should
be rectified at least, that the party who thought
there was an error should be fatisficd. If the state
of New York was fatisfied with i ef^eCt-to the debt
in question, he had no doubt, it would be paid.
With a view of putting the business intoalefs
objectionable form, he would propose an amend
ment, viz after " earnest reqneft," " that if they
(the said states) or any of them objeA to the prin
ciple upon which the balances have been made, they
will make known their objections to the govern
ment of the United States ; but if no objection,
that they will cause provision to be made, &c."
Mr. H. said he eould fee no objection which could
be reasonably made to this amendment.. If the
state of, New-York had any objections to the set
tlement, they would of course appoint an agent to
enquire into the mode in which the accounts had
been fettled ; this enquiry would produce fatisfaCti
on, and whatever was found to be the balance, it
would be chearfully paid ; but, if this amendment
were not agreed te, he said there might be embar
. ra(Tment3 thrown in the way ; embarraftmeßts wliieh
mijrht prove insurmountable.
It had been remarked, Mr. H. said, that this
wbs a kind cf arbitration, and that the award was
final. He never understood it in that point of
light. If the bufmefs had afTumcd the face of an ar
bitiatinn, it would have been fettled in a public man
ner. An agent would not only have beea appoin
ted to bring in their own claims, but also te have
examined thsfe of others. But the bulinefs had
been fettled rather in a p:ivate manner than other
wise. The books had been kept from view. If
there had been no irregularity i n the" settlement, he
could fee no objection to its being laid before the
Ui.ited States at large. He had always understood
jhere was some reason for keeping the accounts
from public infpeflionj and it appeared fomcwhat
(trange. It looked as if there had been some er
rors committed which it were improper to (hew to
.the people of the United States. At any rate
such ideas had prevailed ; tl.oy had at least prevail
ed in the state ol New-Yoik. For these unfens,
he trusted, the amendment would not he oKjeCted
to.
Mr. Henderfoß hoped the amendment would not
prevail : it looked like inviting objections, at a
time when theie was no proof that any objections
exified to the payment of the balances in question.
It was allowed by the oppofers of the report be
fore them that at some period it would be proper to
enter into a nagociation kith the debtor dates ; he
thought there could be no better time than the pte
fent, nor any better mode than that prefciifced by
the resolution before them.
Mr. Kitchell faicl it appeared to him as if the
amendment was introduced for the ptirpofe of gi
ving the State of New-Yprfc an Opportunity to
make apologies for not doing what juflise and ho
nor lequired' of them. It was extraordinary he
said, that 'New-York had been notified two years
of this debt, and that they should now require
them to give some plea i:i j unification of their con
duCt. The gentleman from New-Yoik (Mr Coo
per) had printed the situation of that state during
the war in very strong colours. Other states Mi.
K. f id, fuft'ered equally with them. That gen
tleman had also dv*ek u-iuch upon what that state
had dons during the war j he would fay what the
state of New-Jersey had not done. Mr. K. then
went (too rapidly for us to follow him) over every
thing which he eonjeived the state of New-Yoik
had done to iis dil<-rn!it during the war, which be
fid Had not done. He said that state
was now only called upouto pay the debt (lie owed.
If they had objections to do this, they would make
them ; but rficy were not to cram them down tbrir
throats. Let them state their objections them
selves. He did not believe the state of New York
had empowered their delegates to objeCt to the pay
ment of this debt ; their business wai of a gene
ral legislative nature, and he thought it would have
been belter for them nat to have .interfered in the
business.
Mr. Havens said the gentleman from New-Jer
sey had dwelt much upon what that state had not
done ; he would just remind them of what it had
done'. Did it not lay a heavy tax on the light house
at Sandyhook ? For his own part, he despised any
thing like adverting to dale.merits. Rethought
such praflico '"ad ar. unfavorable afpefl t« other
parts »f the Union, and therefore he would with
always to avoid refle«io:B on any state. t
Mr. Kitchell said he did not mean to reflect OB
the state of New-York. He intended only to re,-
fer ta what Had been said about the indufiry s „(l
wealth of-that state at the expence of alltheother
dates. Wiih fefpcCt to the li\ laid upon the light
honfe, he would aflc whether the flats of' New.
York had not laid taxes upen every ftv.llop.and boat
whuh passed from New Jersey to that (late i
Mr. Swanwick fifa it was of little importance to
•he honfc what taxes had been laid by tlie state »f
New-York or New-Jrrfey. He hoped the amend
merit would not pals, becailfe it would fcern as if
they themfelvcs. doubted the jultice of the dehi.
If they had objefiions to the demand, they would
state them; without any piovilion fwr the purpose.
Mr. Livingfton said lie (hould. confine bis obfer.
vatiwns to the amendment, as that was under confi.
deration. When the general refutation was under
debate, it was objected by the icprefentatives from
tbe state or N«w-Yoik, thnt she could uot be boußd
to pay the balance in quellion, tyecaufe {he had
not given her consent as a state ta the law for ap
piopriating the mode of settlement ; but now they
were told they njuft wait till that state make objec
tions ; that the dulegatesin that houfehad no right
to objedt to it, yet the state was to be bound by
'this fetilemen: which was made according to a law
palled by the delegates of that state ia-common
others. But it the delegates had not a right
(whic*. was his own opinion) to object to the jnft.
ness of the debt, they had certainly no right to
frame the law originally, and then the resolution
was wholly out of 'he question.
Mr. L. said he did not think the amendment of
liis colleague invited objedtion. The friends o! the
refolutihn told them that the. application was made
to know whether it was agreeable to the state to
pay the money or rot. Now the amendment made
the explanation what thry said it was, but what
ajipeared'to the delegates from New-Ywrk doubt
ful. He hoped therefore the amendment would
prevail. If it fliould not, it would cause what
gentlemen seemed to wish to avuid, delay ; be
cause, if it was negatived, he fhoult} think it his
duty, to call for forae delay, before the house a
greed to pass the refutation before them. He there,
fore hoped, if gentlemen wiftied for celerity, or
confiflency with their-own arguments, they would
not oppefe the amendment.
The motion was put and negatived, there being
only 2 1 members for it.
Mr. Livingfton then moved that the committee
rife for the purpose of a postponement. He tho't
they had a(right to ask this from the candor of the
house. It was a fwhjeCt, he said, which required
mature canfideration, and more time tha-i gentle
men had been yet able to give. He hoped there
fore this delay would be granted. He wilhed be
fore he decided on the bufintfs to obtain the sense
of his constituents on the fubjeft. For his own
part, he did not wish tne ciecifron to be put off al
together. He knew tho difsdvantages under which
the representatives of what were called the debtor
states labored, and he wilhed to have it determined
whether the-Hate of New, York was a debtor or a
creditor, whether the whole transaction was to be
binding, or whether the whole fttouhl be buried in
oyition.—The result he said might be this ! The
delegates from the state of New-York do not re.'
present her as a separate state, but as a fiate of the
whole. It waspoffiblc that that (lite might com;
to measures, ae might induce her reprefematives in
that house to wirhdtav/ tarlhei opposition to the
resolution before ihem.
Mr. W. Smith hoped, as the gentleman seemed
so earncftly to wifli it, that the committee would
rife.
The committee accordingly,tofe ar.d obtained
leave to fit again, when
Mr. Livingftau asked if it was in order to move
to postpone the buCnefs to a certain day ? If io,he
wilhed it postponed till that day three wcks
The fpesker informed Mt. L that the business
Wfe net then before thein, and Mr. W. Smith mo
ved that the koufe adjourn—it adjourned accord
ingly.
Rtpulliflied hji dtfire.
From the Gazettp.
Mtm.oirs of GENERAL WAYNE.
ANTHONY WAYNE, late Major general in the
army of th« Ujiitcd States, was born in Chtfier coun
ty, Pennsylvania, in 1745 His grand father bor
a captain's conmiiflion at til* -battle c# Boyne, un
der King William, and was diftinguiftied for his at
tachment to the principles of liberty. The General's
father was a refpcclable farmer, and served for many
years as a representative for the eounty of Chester ia
the General Aflembly of Pennsylvania before the revo
lution. His son fuceeeded him as representative for the
County in 1773. In this eventful year, he began his
career as a patriot, and friend of the rights of man.
He took an active part in all the measures of the Assem
bly for that year which were opposed to the claims rf
Great Britain, and in connexion with John Dickin
lon, Thomas Mifflin, Edward Biddle, Charles Themp-
Ibn, and a few ether gentlemen, prepared the way for
the decided and ufiful part which Pennsylvania after
wards took in the American revolution.
In the year 1775 he quilted the councils of his coun
try, for the field. He tutercd the army of the.United
States asacoloncl. His name recruited a regirneiat in
a tew weeks in his nitive eounty. In the clofe'ofthis
year, he accompanied General Thompfen into Cana
da. Here he was fuon led into aClioti. In the defeat
of General l'hoipplori, he behaved with great bravery,
and was Angularly ufeful in saving a large tody of the
army,,by the judicious manner in which he coi,:du£teil
their retreat atier th* General was made prifaner. In
this battle the General, then Col. Wayne, received a
Rcfh wound in his leg.—ln the campaign sf '7761 he
served under General Gates at Ticondtrnga. Gen.
Gates esteemed him highly, not only for his courage,
and other military talents, but for his knowledge as
an engineer. It was said of him, that his eye wa-> near
ly equal to a meafnre, in judjring of heights and distan
ces, .a talent this of incalculable consequence in an offi
cer. At the cloie of this campaign he was ?i »-ated a
Brigadier General.
He bore an afiive part in the campaign of 1777.
He fought at Bran.lywine, and for .1 long time retard
ed the progre'fi ..f tile Britilh arm; in trVrffiivg C had's*
ford. Germantown, and at the I'aoli,
on the Lancaster road. In the la/t of these battles
(wheithehad a leparate command) and in whit!.was defeated ; —Tils coolness and intrepidity in the j
mi.lft of a rpoft bloody scene, finally sustained his char.
a<Jter *bove censure, and added credit to the American
arras.
In 17 78 he shared in the hanor of the viilory over
the British army at Monmouth. In the fanjie year he
dittinguifhed himfelf by a bold attack upon a block
house on the North River. It was rendered unfuccfi"-
ful according »o the account given of it by General J
Waihwgton in his letter to Congress, only by the in
temperate valor of his troops. v
In 1779. he diftingurfhed himfelf by fu'rprifing and
Jtorming Stony Point —In effe&ing this business, he 1
marched several miles through a deep roorafs in the '
middle of the night. In the attack upon the fort, he
wasftruckdown.by a ball which grarifed hisheai. It
was expe<!\ed that he was ; but he foen rose so as
to reft on one knee. Feeling hi« situation, and be'iev- *•
jng his wound to be mortal, he cried out to one of his 0
Aids, Carry me forward, and let ras die in the fort." '
When he entered it, he jjave orders to flop the effu
fion of bleotl by th' sword, and to make the garrison
prilbners of war.—This humane/ command was the t
more generous as the garrison eonfifted of fjme of the t
troops who had ufetl the bayonet without mercy, at s
the faoli. F
In the year 17*1, he bore an a&ivepart in the cam- e
paign which reduced the army of Lord Cornwallis to <j
the necessity of surrendering prisoners of war. After f
this event, he was sent by General Washington, to con- h
dudl the war i« the State of Genrgia. Here his pru- S
dcnce, courage, and military Ikill were amply tried.
He contended wi'h equal fueceii with British soldiers,
Indian savages, and American traitors. In a short tl
time, he established peace and liberty in that once dif- f
trailed state. As a reward for his eminent frrvires, S
the lfgiflature <Jf Georgia presented him with a valua- f
ble farm.
Upon the return of peace he retired to private pur
suits. In 1787 he fubferibed as a member ofthe Pe»n
fylvania conventionale inftrumtnt which declared the
prcftnt Federal Coti'lVitution of the United States to be
part of ths supreme law of the land.
In the ye?r 1791, he accepted ofthe command of
the Amarlcan army, to be employed agjynft the Indi
ans, who fqr several years had carried on a fuceefsful
and desolating war, upon the frontiers of the United
State». In this Situation his military genius broke forth
with accumulated luflre. He disciplined and created
an army, and by uniting in his fyttem of ta&ics In
dian llratageir.s with civilized bravery, he led on his
troops to /lAnry over numerous and conledtrated
tribes, and thereby gave peace in a single day to the
United States.
Ha died of an acute disease, at Prefqu isle, in the
fcrvice of his country, on the 15th of December,
1706. *
Reader! whoever thou art, remember that the
man whose name is hereby revived in the public mind,
was thy friend. He endured hunger, cold, pain, .
watchfulnefs and fatigue, and he fought and hied,
that thou mighteft enjoy Liberty and Independence.—
He died in a hut in the wilderness, remote from his
friends, that his countrymen might enjoy in fafety,
beneath dcmeftic fh'ades, and in cultivated society, the
peaceable fruits of their labours. Traveler! who
ever thou art, that (hall visit the shores ofthe lake, on
■which his body is interred, stop, and drop a tear in
behalf of his country, over his grave. Plant near it ,
a willow, which fballconvey to it the dew of Heaven, J
and cut its bark, in letters that ihall grojw with
timo, the name of WAYNE, with the precious epi
theti, of PATRIOT, HERO and FRIEND. \
CONTINUATION OF
Late Foreign Intelligence.
By the arrival at New-Ljndon.
ABSTRACT,
from a Liverpool paper of November 15.
BY letters from R. Craufotd, to the Brnifh mi
nister, as late as the 27th of Oa. he fays, after
several defeats, Moreau was obliged to recrofs the
Rhine on the night of the 26th of OS. to Hun
in E en. The last of his rear guard was this m»rn
;„a (the 27th) on the heights of Weillar, on which
Morcau had conSrufled a large and solid work ;
but after a little skirmishing wuhthe Hnlfars, they
evacuated the heights and redoubt, before any in*
fantry could come up, and nothing now remains on
this fide of the Rhine, but a few troops in a fma.l
Tete de Pont, behind which is a kind of horn
work, lately conftrufted on the island, called Shu
terinfcl. The French are Rated to have met with
great leffes in cannon, prisoners, &c. bolh by Mr.
Crauford's letters, and the difpatcl.es to the empe
roi's minister in London, which detail the particu
lars It is further stated, by this mimftei's dis
patches, that the defeat of the French by WW
fer Oft. 7, w as mo(l compleat. The Vienna Ga
zette ofthe 19th, merely dates, that Wurmfer,
after two fruitless sttacks on Governolo, (near
Mantua,) at last carried that place by assault, and
put a whole French garrison to the sword. We
irealfo ta observe, that the official reports of the
Fiench generals and commissaries of the 15th and
17th of oa. from the lalt Paiis papers, make no
mention of these affairs.
The news from the Lower Rhine is not impor
(am it principally coitfifts- of alarms oceaf.oned
by the Auflrian detachments now on 'he left banks
of the Rhine. They makeextenfive incursions, and
cmifc great alarm to the garrisons of Coblctuz,
Landau, See. . t 1 11 *1
The Imperial armies in Italy as well as upon the
Rhine, receive daily reinforcements ; and unless
peace is concluded, the ImpenaUlU will follow up
their fuc<*ffes by a winter's campaign in France.
SWITZERLAND, Oa. 20.
A report prevailed that the army of Moreau was
approaching onr frontiers in it. retreat from Swab*.
Some cantons proposed to convoke an affably of
'J the ttates ; bat the canton of with
firmnefs, that troops ought to be assembled in the
firit inltance. In h&, <s°»° men marched to the
frontiers, and this example was followed by the
other Cantons.
LONDON, Not. IJ.
A eorvette of 24 gum. one of Rtchery's fleet,
J. mentioned to be taken by an Englifli fr. ? ««.
There are 3 English squadron. cra.Ußg for Riche
ry in the channel, Mann's, I hompfon s, and Cur
tlSßv the papers it appears that Lord Malmftury
Hill at Paris ; and » is obfetved, under Lon
don head of 15th Nov. from the total hlencc for
s om e davs on the fuhjeft of Lord Ms. negonati
on, tIKV hope, that things are going on in a tram
' which prrmifa fair for a fp«dy adjustment.
Philadelphia, j
FRIDAY EVENING, JANUARY 13, 1797.
Married lafl: evening, by the Reverend Mr. Aber
croinbie, Doctor James Gallahe*, to MiU Margaret k
Dobson, daughter of Mr. Thomas Dobfon.
Died, at Lancaster, Pennfylrama, after labonring
under many hard Mr. Democratic So-
CtETY, of that place, in the 2d year of his age—Hi3
stock in trade will be fold at public auiflion.
The pafiengers and crcvr of the ITiip Barrington,
Captain Stewart, loft on the Isle of Sables on the izd 5
of last Septeml>er, are arrived at New-York from f
Halifax in 14 days. i
The Common Council has rcfolved, nnanimoully,
that the address of the President ofthe United States
to the People be printed with their refotves and ordi- i
nances. Also, that an address be presented to him ex
prefiive ®f their Uigh sens« of the services he has render- .
ed ro his country, and their deep regret at his relin- 1
quifhing that high office which for eight years he has
filled with so much honor to himfelf and advantage to
hit country. These resolutions have beea sent to the
Select Council for concurrence. €
Agreeable to the plan laid before Congress of a \
dire<st tax of one million, soar hundred and eighty- r
four thousand dollars, to be laid upon the United
States, the apportionment of the several States is as L .
follows: *
Dollars' 3
To the State of Vermont, 18,000 )
5t,000 {
Maftachufetti, 196, «oo ,
Rhode-Island, «?,000 £
Connedlicut,, 98,009
New-York, 140,000 '
New-jersey, 7«,ooo 1
Fennfylvania, 181,000 >
Delaware, 14,003 |
Maryland, ua,oOo 1 <
Virginia, 166,000 (
Kentucky, i8,30c
North-Carolina, 140,000
Tenneflee, 14,000 I
South Carolina, 84,000 1
Georgia, 18, oca <
Amount to 1,484,000 .
From which there being dedu&ed for ") ,
abatements, erroneous afTefTinents ajid ( ,
charges »f collection, fifteen per cent. zn,oeo 1
There will remain the eltimated net / ,
proceeds of the proposed tax, being 3 %l *°°
CIRCULAR.
B'Jlon, Decemhr j2, 1756.
Gentlemen,
I am informed that " Winterhotham's Hillnrical, '
Geographical, and Philosophical View of the United
States of America," firft pubiilhed in England, has
been rep, inted in this country
It is apparent to every intelligent reider, an I in
tne Englifli edition it is acknowledged, that the author
I " his availed himfelf of the I "hours and abilities" of
others s and that "he has often no other merit than
what arises from feleftion and a few connecting fen-
If '
tences.
Part of my literary property has-been in this manner
invaded ; and I am advise t 'hat flie KVt'S ofttl'e tJHit
ed States will give me a fufSci.-at remedy against any
person who (hall .reprint, import, publith, fall, or
expose to sale, any part of the shove work, which
may comp ehend any confiderahle portion of my pub
lications.
As it is probable that some sopies of the above
work mav be trsufmitted to you for sale, T have
thought it friendly and proper to apprize you of my
intention to apply Ui# prSvifi»ns of the law upon this
fubjeifl to my rtlief, if it fliould become neceftiry-
I am, Gen:lernen,
Your humb'e servant,
JEREMY ISELKNAP.
To the Hookfellefs of the United )
Staus of North-America. J
Yeflerday the Senate of this Commonwealth waited
on the Prrfident of the United States and
presented to him the following address :
To GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Pxbsidiht of the United Status.
SIR,
YOU R late address to the pesple of the United
States, whillt it awakens every sentiment of grati
tude, deeply affects our feelings with regret.
The friendly c«unfel you have offered, to your
fellow citizens, to induce them to adhere ftedfaltly
to their present union repress the spirit of par
ty : to cherilh religion, knowledge, and public
credit ; and to maintain a dispassionate and impar
tial, though amicable disposition tawards foreign .
nations, meets with our warmed approbation. In
your forcible expolition -ef the dangers which will |
result to their freedom, fafety and prosperity, from '
3 dereliaion of those falutsiy maxims, we recog
nize thatjuft discernment of the real interest as our |
countty, and that firm adhetence to the principles
of true patriotilm, which have always diftinguilhed
your public conduct. Your fellow-citizens, fe*
i lible that with your measures their dearelt interefU
were intimately conneaed, have regarded them with
anxious attention ; t.h«y have beheld you, under
the aufpioes »f divine providencc, leading their ar
mies to viaory, and guiding their councils to prof
-1 peritv and peace ; nor has the closest examination
of yourcondua produced any other effea, than to
flrengthen their reliance on your wisdom and
1 virtue.
The various testimonials of attachment, whicis
■ you have received from the people of the United
States, mult have fully convinced you, that those
affeaionate fenfation6 towards them, whifch are so
feelingly exprefled in your address, are reciprocated
by correspondent femimems on their part. The
, figna! inflance of steady approbation, with which
they have supported your administration, and the
- ftiirCefs which lias attended it, have exhibited to the
- ivortd a (Inking proof, that the mod effeaual me
tliod of securing the confidence, and accompli(hing
f the welfare of an enlightened nation, is,- to pur
• iue, with undeviating frrmnefs,a policy founded on
r the purest integrity.
The fatisf#aien ve have derived from your fa
il lutary communications, is greatly allove Iby the
Intorrhation which has accompanied them, that we
ire (*o soon to lie deprived of those faithful fervi.-es
fjom which such important benefits have resulted to
this in cemmoa with the othef flutes. We are, at
the fame time, compe'".*d to a {Tent to the ju ll ice of
your claim :o that repose in the evening of your
days, which nas been so long facrificed to the voice
and intereflj of your country.
You will carry with you into retirement, the so
lid enjeiymfnt ariGng from the applause of your
grateful country, and the canfciouf.iefs of a life da
voted to virtue and public utility. In addition to
these faurces of happiness, may you long enjoy the
bielflnga of health 5 mav you largely partake of
that national felitfity,.to the establishment of which
you have so eminently contributed ; and may your
successors in office, be influenced by yoar example,
in their efforts to promste the peace, fafety, and
dignity of the United States. *
Signed by Order,
ROBERT HARE, -
Spcaksr of the Senate of the Commonwealth of
Pennfylvaivia.
To which the President returned the following anfvjer.
To the Senate of Peunstlfahu.
Gentlemen,
I RECEIVE with great pleasure the expressi
on» of your approbation of ray public ferrices. The
general mirks of fatisfa&ion, and the various tefli
monies of feleft and difceraing bodies of men a
mong my fellow citizens, refpe&ing my public
coftduft, while they have ftimslatsd my exertions to
b« ufeful to my country, the sole object «f all my
aiMs and withes, have also enforced the juftncls of
your remark, " that the nvift effectual method of
fecuringtha confidence, an 4 accomplilhing the wel
fare of an enlightened nation, is ta pursue with »n
---deviating firmneft, a policy founded in pure inte
grity.'' And I (hall be patdoned when 1 add, that
conscious integrity has been my unhealing support,
and while it gave me confidence in the m?afures I
purfaed, the belief of it, by acquiring to me the
confidenae of my fellow citizens, ensured thefu:-
cess Which they have had. This consciousness will
accompany me in my retirement : Without it,
public applauses could be viewed only as proofs of
public error, and felt as the upbraiding of petfonal
(dement. In this retirement, to behold the nation
al felicity will be largely to partake in it; and if
with this felicity I enjay health, which you kindly
wish me, my hopes in this world will be oonfum
mated.
(Signed) Go. WASHINGTON.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Ffnno,
It is proposed to fubrait a fe.v observations on
thequeltioii " WheAer a citizen has a right to
dived himfelfof his allegiance, without thecosfent
of the society of which he is a member," —as ap
plicable to the cafe of captain Barney, who is fai l
to be a&ing under a commiflioH to capture tne
property of citizens of the United States.
To acquit captain Bumy, or a.ny nther Ameri
can citizen, in his it will be tiectffary to
proyc, either that the tight to expatriate, is a
natural right, which man cannot be deprived of, on
entering into fo;icty ; or if nut a natural right,
one ftipuhted for in the facial c«mpa<£\, into which
' he entered, or permitted by fume «& of his affoci
atis.
Is it a na'tiral ? We shall not apply to
books for a solution of this problem. There is
hitjher authority nearer at hand. We conceive that
Americans, who havu had a frae intercourse with
thj savage tribes, and a pretty correct knowledge i
<*f ihe principles which govern them, are better able
to determine, what are maa's right* in a Jiate of
nature, than either H tSbes or PufFendorf. What
do wu learn.from their experience ? That the mem
bers of tribes are attached each to his par
ticular tribe—knd that no inflanees are known of
a savage leaving his afTociates, and connefUng him
felf voluntarily With a different tribe to fight against
his original tribe or nation This fact, therefore,
may be conftdered r.s a eonclufive, though negative
proof ; that it does not belong to man, as an in
herent right, to divert himfelfof his allegiance, or
desert his tribe and turn his arms againll thofs with
whom he was an original afTociate.
Is it then under the conflitution ot laws of the
United States* that her citizens acquire the right
to abandon and plunder theii afTociates ? No
Neither the conflitution nor laws favor or fofler any
such principle. On the contrary, the afTociates to
the constitution, bind themselves " to a mart perfect
union," which cannot mean a right to desert each
other, and thus diflblve tha union—" to ejlablifk
juflice," which cannot meas a right to turn pirates
'—" to insure domejlic tranquility," which cannot
j mean a right to diflurb it—" to provide for the
I common defence," which cannot mean a right te
weaken it— 44 to promote the general welfare," which
I cannot mean a right to deltroy it—apd " tofecure
I the klejftngs of liberty to themfehetand their fioflerity,"
, which cannot mean, to secure them to the people
of France and their pufterity.
Such are the objedts and purposes, as exprefTed
in cheir conflitution, for which the citizens of the
United States have afTociated. They havefolemnly
bound themselves to abide by this expression of
their will, and they have not yet altered these par
ticulars by any fubfequei.t inflrument. As to the
laws, these emanate from the coitllitution, and mult
be subservient to it—they cannot contravene its
obje£ts, or authorise what is to destroy
the compact itfelf. For, if captain Barney miy
lawfully make a piize ot the property of 'he citi
zens of the United States, under colour of a
French commiffioi), and an oath of allegiance to the
republic of France, every other American citizen
may a A in the fame manner towards their afTociates,
which amounts to a breaking up of the society.
1 But does not this interpretation of the compad
" trench upon man's natural liberty and independ
; ence ? Mait does not derive from nature a right to
violate engagements, into which he has freely en-
I tered ; nor a right to prey tipon his affociatas,
- whose welfare he it pledged to promote ; nor has
i nature given to man faculties and powers, that car
render him independent of others, er enable hiir
- to live without society.
t If man may at all fever himfelf t-emthafe with
c whom he is ail original affoctf tes,afid ci.terinto ob
&
II orations with a fereign nation; the new obliga
tions can be no farther binding on him, thim as
permitted by his ass.i iates, or as they do not clalh
with anterior and primary obligations.
On this ground a, government may naturalize
the fubje&s or citieens of other governments—but
.cannot exa& from them ftrviees, repugnant to their
original obligations, unless they have been released
from these, by some adl of their aflociates.
These opinions are net new—hey are but a tran
fciipt of the general sense of mankind touching
this queflion, in all ages of the world.
I shall only add ta these (hart remarks, an ex»
tract of an ordinance of France on the fame fnbjeil
—with a commentary thereon by Valin.
ORDINANCE.
Article 111. " We prohibit all our fuhje&s,
from taking commijjiens, from any foreign king,
prince or state, ta equip vefTels of war and cruiae
under their flag, unless by our pcrm'ijion, under pain
of being treated as pirates."
COMMENTARY.
"To these general and indefinite propoGtions,
there is no exception. They extend to commiflions
taken from powers friendly or allied, neutral or fuf
pefted. They relate also at well to a time of peace
as war.
" The reason for so general a prohibition is, be
eaufe it amounts to a fpeciesof deftrtion, combined
with on engagement to serve a foreign sovereign.
That of imploring his protection to cruize under
his flag, in preference to the prote&ion and flag
of their own favereign.
" The alliance of the sovereign with the prince
from whom the commission may be taken, cannot
ferre as an excuse, because though "an ally, he i*
not less a foreign power. Besides, if tl\ecomniif
fion of the foreign prince, is to a& again# the paw
er with whom he intends to remain neutral, it would
be giving him just grounds of complaint—which
might finally be the cause of a rupture.
" It is therefore evident, that fsch' commiflisnt
cannot be taken nvithiut the permtjjton of the fove
*eign : and that a contravention meiits the puuilh
ment due to pirates—as decided the,4th article of
the declaration of the Ift February 1650 —the ar
ret of'con ncil of the 26th Augull of the fame
year—and that of the 31(1 O&ober 1662.
" This fame declaration, besides the words all our
fuljeSs, adds domiciliated or not domiciliated in our
kingdom, or the countries under our dominion,
which addition is to be underftjod of the above ar
ticle—bccaufe Frenchmen having fettled in a fo
reign country, are not less Frenchmen and fnhject*
—at least they remain to far fubjcQi that if they
take up aims againll, the king or a3 againfl the
French vtffels—-they deserve death as rebels to their
king and traitors to their country."
LOCCENIUS.
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, January 6.
By an arrival at M irblehead, which left Rotter,
dam November 14, It is f*id,news is received, {hat
she French haverejefted the tarms of peace, which
the British plenipotentiary, lord Malmelbury, w-t»
authorised to offer.
The fchooorr Phenix, arrived at Marblehead
from Holland, brought French and Dutch paper*
of a late date.
By the arrival at New-London, letters have been
received as late as November 30.
Tuesday, J*n. 3.
Arrived (hip Financier, Parsons, Oporto,. 54
days Left there, bitg Rebecca, Bruce, of New-
York, likely to be condemned, as unfit for sea.
Dee. 11, lat. 36, 42, long. 6t, ao, spoke sloop
Gardner, 30 daya from Martinique far New
bury. Dec. 6, lat. 40, 56, long-. 58, spoke brig-
Mary, Ward, 6 days from New-York for Amster
dam.
The brig Eliza, was spoke with Dec. 12, lat.
41, bound to Philadelphia, had fprunk her fare,
mail.
On the i6th ultimo, the following velTels failed from,
the port of Sath in the Diftriil of Maine. It is a good
proof of the astonishingly increased importance of the
eastern part of this State.
Ships Nancy, Lord, for Liverpool; Curls, Hol
brook, for Trinidad; Mercury, Farnarn for Demera
raSchs. Polly, Martin, for Demerara ; Hannibal, Pat
terfon, for do, and Guardian, Redman, tor do.
NEW-YORK, January ti.
Captain Terry, of the brig Commerce, from
Jacquemel, informs, that previous to his failing,
it was reported there, that the schooner Romp,
Oliver Peck, matter, belonging to Isaac. Riley,'
t was captufed off the harbour of Jacquemel, by •
British frigate, and fuppoled to have beeu sent to
Jamaica ; and that the captain, aad Mr. Paul
I Richard Randall, supercargo on board, were put
c in irons, and sent to Male St. Nicholas.
■ , War between England and Spain, was declared
at New-Orleans, on the 17th December.
Schooner Active, Wilcox, from New-Orleans,
j failed December} left there,
c Ship Two Friends, Billings, to fail for the Ha
vanna in 7 days.
Brig L'ttle George, Holden, to fail for New
. York in 10 or 15 days.
e r "
1 Pantheon,
8 AND RIGKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE.
Y Corner of Chefnut and Sixth-street*
Y For and Stags Performances*
Tl-lVfomzit Evening, Saturday 'January 14,
Will be prafented a variety of Entertainments, as will
be eipreffed in the bills of the day.
n The whole t« uoncludc With, for the firft time, a new
comnc Pantomime (Under the diredti#n of \tt. Jo mss,)
Called
a The Magic Feast.
j. ——
0 For Sale,
]' Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
S, *
as Three (lories high, 16 feet front, and 40 feet de.-p
, n each, and adjoining; situated on the east fide of Front,
m between Race and Vwe-ftreets ; Nos. 161 and 163.
They will he fold on very reafanablc terms, either
separately or together. Apply to
JOHN MILLER, jun. A CO.
b_ January 13 - a**"In Council, 22d December 1796.
I *.c Executive of Virginia will, on or "before the firft
day of March next, be ready to reccive propolaU for the
importation from Europe, of
Four thousand stand of Arms.
folic delivered at Richmond, in the course of the ensuing
venr—Each ilan«i to con ft ft: of a mulkat, the length of
riie barrel to be three feet eight inches, and to receive a
ball of the lize of eighteen to the pound—a double bridled
lock upon the best conftru(SHon—neat brafg mounting —
. jle«l ramrod, and to be well (locked with black walnut;
and bi.y'onet o/ie foot five inches in the blade—a car
touc' ' \ t suitable to the muiket, to contain twenty-iour
cartridges, with neat black leather belts, minted with
fcrafs buckles ; together with a brush wiper for the pan,
and picker for the touch-hole. The Executive will also
r'eady to receive proposals, within the period above
mentioned* for the manufacturing within this state, the
'ike nnmber of stand of arms, to be delivered at Rich
mond, in the course of tha year 1798.
By order of the Executive,
Attest,
A . Bia ir, C . C
}aa. 6. *eojt.
SWANN'S
Riding School, Horse Academy Ejf Infirmary,
Adjoining the Publie Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
lie has been employed, during his refideucc in this |Citv, and
fiatlershimfelt that ihe focceft of his efforts, in the numerous,
©blYinate and dangerous diseases in riorfes, in which he has
been confuUed, together wjih bis moderate charges, will fe
ll re iheir future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave co inform them and the public at large
that his fpacioui. and commodious premiTes, erc&ed for the
purposes above defer 1 bed are opea for the reception of pupils
of either feK, who wifhto beinftmtted in the Art of Hiding
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with eale, ciegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expedttioully broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient toe he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are (hut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully beflowrd oh them.
Also, at hishofpiral, every difor er to >lhich the horse is
liable willbe treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience. /
The utility of the above has never been qneftion
ed, that it has long been wanted in ihi* city, every.gentleman's
stud willmantfeft, and T. Swann as the fir ft eftahlifiier of
the veterenary art, solicits a«d relies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he isevef anxious in ierving) to enabie him to
bring it to peilc&ion. The idea of a fubfeription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wifti to
promote the inilitution —the amount ot each fubfcripiion tp
be returned by services in any of the departments he proieflfes,
agreeable to the rate of chargcs stated in his hand bill SHch
fubfeription is now open, and the signatures of many relpefl
able gentlemen already obtained. He there*ore injorms his
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen tp wtforn he has not
the honor of being khown, that he ftia 11 in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folic&ing their support
and prou&ioo.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladles and
©entleraenwho wish to be inftrutted.
Nov 5. tth&f.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping BHI Books,
Adapted for the ease and convenience of merchants
in general ; but particularly for those, who are'ex
tenfively concerntd in trade: exhibiting at one
»iew, all the bills which a merchant may *ave to
receive or p?y, in the course of the whole year,
for each month frparatively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
the mode now in use, of fele£ting the bill: due in
each month from the promiscuous entries of several
months.
To which is prefixed,
t able (hewing the number of days from any day
any n-.onth, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January 2. tawtf
Paterlon Lottery.
FOR raising fir. thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollar* and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
Centfrom the prizes, and not two blanks to a priza. viz
I Prize.<of 5000 dollars-is dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
t 500 500
5 100 10co
10 100 aooo
99 J° 495°
109 2-S SOOS
1000 IO »0,000
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
2331 Prizes. 44,450
4018 Blanks.
6jjo Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for eflablifh
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperwitsendauts of the Pat
erl'on Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Seheme to the public, and have dire&ed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery has a<stually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may b« procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796;
J. N- GUMMING, ~)
JACOB M. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
x Prize of 5000 ... 5000
I , J 000 - 1000
I s°° ... JCO
5 400 1000
20 100 - • tooo
90 59 4500
165 25 _ - - - - 4X»5
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is roi'fiderably more than o«ie third
diM A-n, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly ir.creafed, and it is worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in thoold scheme, that they can ex-,
change t&eir thole in the above, if they ap-
Iv soon, and at a moderate advance eonfidering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future wilWbe oftener, and the Lyttery loon finifhed.
November 12. raws
• Clocks and Watches,
t LESLIE And PRICE,
e No. 79, Market-strbet, Philapelphijl,
HAVE IMPORTED, by tie late arrivals from
London, a Urge afTortment •!' IVA RRA NTE D
IVA '/ CHE S, cenfifting of horizputal, capp'd and
g jewel'd Gild Watches, with fecowds, of ftiperior
,f workmandiip and ciegance ; also. capp'd and jewel'd
a and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd. capp'd,
d seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Watches;
- eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
; with marble frames ; eight day and thirty hoar, brass
■- works, &c.
ir Decembet 22, 1796. dim
h -
' a > Bank of North-America,
° January 2, I 797.
, c At a meeting-os the Direilors this day, a Dividend ot
1 . Six per Cent. was declared for the last half year, which
will be paid to the Stockholders or their representatives,
at any time after the ioth mfiant.
By order of the Board.
dti6th JOHN NIXON, President.
CAUTION.
WHKREAS very Urje and heavy debts are justly
«l»e and owing from meflrs. Blair M'Clenacban anV,
Patrick Maore, of the city of merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Glcnacban and P.
Moore, and from Blair M'ClenacJjan in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as well as separate property of the said Gentle
-1(j men, is, and ought to bei liable. And whereas
it is clearly and fcuisfa&orilv afeertained, that mr.
as Blair M'Clenacban, of the said firm, has conveyed
c- away to mr. John H. linjlon, his foti-in-law, to his
daughter, miss M'Clenacban, and to his son, George
g r M'Clenacban, several large and valuablt real estates,
(" as well as ooufiderable personal property, in the city
' s and county of Philadelphia, in the oounty of Lancaf
* ter, in the county of New-Caftie on Delaware, and
, e elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
,d feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
rs This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whomlli
ig ever, against the purchase from the fiid grantees, or
a! either ©f them, of any portion of the said veal orper
fonal property, as the molt vigorous measures will
without delay be taken Fo render the fame liable to
the jirft demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors,
j. Thomas Fitz/lmonj, ~J
• 4 Philip Nicklin, I
Df Isaac '/barton, / Committee,
it William M' Murtrie, I
Samuel IV. Fi/her, J
at Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. 2cth.J
■° ! - ■ . ——_____
? TO THE PUBLIC.
:h .
I- TJ3E caution introduced into the public prints,
18 warning all perfonr. against purclialing from the
;c grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
rt large, resl and petfonal estates he conveyed away to
his fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upeti the fubjeft by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
_ M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clenn
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confidnd in the fubferibers by
, those creditors: a step which it would hava besn a
ta breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
k- The very statement of the fait therefore must dif
ie pel the imputation that it was either " precipitaw
Lo or vindiAivc." It originated in a desire to feoure
r, the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
e- ment of his just debts. It was fan&foned by the
in ndviae of council as a measure necejfary to the fafety
in of the creditors. If the advertisement has been
al injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own (injuflihable conduit, not to the fub
feribers who have merely publifhsd the truth in
j terras as mild as the fa£t would admit, and who
1. mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
?- validity of those purchases of which Mr. M'Cle
naehan so confidently speaks.
The fubferibers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution against purchasing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
purchase from atjy other persons (if such there be)
cr to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made firailar
• conveyances.
>° (Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
® ISAAC WHARTON,
,e WILLIAM M'MURTRI£,
;o SAMUEL W. FISHER.
>d Philad. Dee. 21, 1796.
>0 $3 Those printers who have been requested to
10 puhlifh the fiift Caution, are desired to pubHCi this
- also.
10 1
Washington Canal Lottery,
•o N°. I.
1- TT /"HBREAS the State 6f Maryland has
t. Vt the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
Ie two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose of cutting
m a Canal through the City of Washington, froxi tjt Po
:d tomac to the Eaftan Branch Haroour. »
ts The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Vie -1 Prize of 40,000 dollar*, ao.ooo
11 1 ditto io,ooo
£8 7l a ftd rawn 7
4 Tickcts, each j s> ooo 35fi°°
t- 6 ditto I,oo© 6,000 I
10 ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto ioo a,OOO
55 ditto 50 3,750
s. 5750 69,008
To be raised for ths Canal, 26,2.5®
0 5850 Prizes, 175 poo
11650 Blanks, not two to a prise.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commifiioners have taken the Securities re
0 quired by the aforefaid a(S for the punctual payment of
0 the prizes.
■5 The drawing ef tjus I.ottery will commence, without
0 delay, a» soon as th* Tickets are fold, of which timely
** notice will be given.
Such prize, a 6 are not demanded in fix months after ths
d drawing is finifhed, /hall be confidcrcd as relinquished for
- the benefit «f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly,
e (Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CAUUOLL, o/D
LEWIS 'DEBLGIS,
e GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m.duncaNson,
1 THOMAS LAW,
JAMES B^RRY.
Cit of Waihipgton, Feb. 11. 5
A Manufa&oiy FQR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works aimoft new,
on an entirely oiiginal conitruttion, and built of the bed
materials, aiul may be set to work immediately. Persons
who wish to purchase, arc requeued to appty at No 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f t,f
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open hisfchool on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant JSew Ball Rooms,
In Folirth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the lame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillioss, he means 60
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The fir ft pratStifing bail to be on Tuesday e*
vening, the nrft of November, and to be continued every
Tucfday, during the fcafon.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N0.134, Market
ilreet.
OA. 17. tthf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 13d O&ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES; i\ years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high; had on a mixed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ;
a ilriped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed t© driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for securing him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reafonabic charges paid by
Robins Chamberlainc.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 Cimaawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist tbthe
, King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflbrtment of every thing neotflary
to be used forthe
Prefervatlon of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder; Opiate; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teoth —he
alio furnifnes Brushes and foft Sponges.
* rfc * He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve
Fourtli-flreet.
Novsmb«r 16. 11'
Horles taken in,
For the Winter Season,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, it
Utiles 011 the Bristol Road, where good flabling i> pro
vided, and great eare will b« taken of them
- William Bell.
Nov. 23. mwfawmthtf.
Samuel Richardet
ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
v. Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers publiflied in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
t.on, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; sogebher with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the chokeft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malfl Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and fraall Parties, op {ingle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to thamfelves—a cold Collation is
j tegwlarly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniftipd, and
the utmost attention paid to clcanlinefs, and every other
requisite.
Samuel Richardet wfll behappy to receive, and
j execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
i large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
! himfelf that nothing on his purt (hall be wanting so pre
fervc that patronage with which he has been so diftinguilh
inglv Honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
* Trealury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that prapofals will be re- 1
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury j
until the expiration of the fir ft day of March next en
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
foe the use of the United States, from the firft day of
Jmic, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days indufive, at the places and within the districts here
after mentioned, via. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at
Pjefque lftc; at Sandulky Lake, and on Sandufky
River; at Detroit; at Michilitnackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Je£ferfon; at Grenvilie; at
Picqnc Town and I.oramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort
Steuben at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
tcthe,fouth boundary of the United States on the river
Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies fhallbe required for any posts or places not
mentioned m this notice, all luch fwpplies fhali be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recked, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the 1 Cautm&or.
The rations to be fupphed arc to coniift of fol
lowing article®, viz.
, One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of
Two quarts of Vi negar, ■ < huß( j. ed raion?
I wo pounds or boap, ( *
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furnifhad in fnch quantities, asthat
there shall at all times during the laid term, be fuffisicnt
for the confumptionofthe troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance and at each of the other posts, for the tersn of
at least three months in advance, ia good an d wholesome
provifions,ifthefanie stall be required. It is to be un
derlloud, that the Contractor is to beat the ex pence and
rifle of lfTuipgthe supplies to the troops at each poll, and
that all lode* sustained by the depradations of an enemy, or
by means of the tr«ops of the United States, (hall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or deiiroyed, on
the depositions of two or more pcrfens of creditable cha
ra&crs. and the certificate of a coamiiUioncil officer, as-
Mi taining the circumflances of the loss, and the amount
of the at ticks foi which oomper.fation ihall be claimed
OLIVER WOI.COTT,
Secretary of tie Treasury.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South SfLcnd stkkbt.
TICKETS 111 the Canal Lottery, Wo. a, for
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
frhe late lottery. . f
CKsck Book* kept for examination and rejjiftering, for
the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information whore
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undraw*
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New*.
J?ort Long-Wharf, Motel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fulvfbriber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wife to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
<Scc. or to obtain money on clerofit of property
Aifo Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Taa Dollars «<*ch, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, 18. 1796. rath
City ot Waihington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No.IL
fOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 i THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ? 10,000 dollars, & >
dwelling-hotilp, 5 calh 30,000, ire j S°,ooo
1 ditto 15,000 & eafli 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cacti 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & oafh 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 &. calh 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,009
I calh prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
xo do. i,eoo - . 10,000
jo do. 500 - . 10,000
00 dod 100 - - 10,000 ■
100 do. 50 - * 10,009
400 do. a 5 - - 10,000
I,ooc do 1 . so * ao,ooo
15,000 do. 10 - 159,000
16,739 Prizes.
3j,161 Blank*.
50,000 Ticket!, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the. prixe of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
er prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be reseived for
any number not kfs than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fptcimen of the pri
vate buildings to be erected in the City of Waihington
Two beautiful designs are already fcleded for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prayings
it ispropofed toefed two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to eonvey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner defcribcd in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A oett dedu&ion of five par cent, will be made to dsfray
the necessary expenses of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National ■
Uaiverfity, to be ereaed within the city of Walhingtion.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty darn
after it is fitiifhld; and any prizei for which fortunate
numbers axe not produced within twelve monthsaftgr the
drawing is closed, arc to be considered as given towards
the luntl for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the .ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real fecurit.esgiven for the payment ol the I J rize»u
are held by the President a*d two Director* of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ol the lottery.
The twenty lour gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiilioners aflifled in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are reqiiefted to undertake thie arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fuifiujnt nui*.
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that she
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
ject's may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the difierent parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that this
drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caation unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe difpofaf of
the tickets, has rendered the inort fuipeafion indilpcniabl®.
SAMUEL BLODGtT.
.§» Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilmau, loft a» ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. eo
By Authority. '
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by IVILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Sccond-Jlreet•
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft ot
the Legislature of Pennlylvania, passed during ihe lail
leflion, lor building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Boruugh ol Reading, in the County of
ficrk s- Dollars.
> Pri« of 40.000 D.illai* - 40,000
1 do. of io,coo do. . . 10,000
3 do - 5>«oo do. . . 15,000
4 do. of 2,00 a do., . . S,ooo
so do. of J,OOO do. - . . so,ooo
39 do. of 500 do. . . 19,500
80 do. of 200 do. . . . ,0,000
soo do. of 100 do. ... 2 0,000
300 do. «f 5 o do. _ 15,000
1 do, of jeo do. to be paid the polfcf- )
for of the lull drawn no. J
5 do. of 3, coo do. to be paid pofTelfors t
' of the live lad drawn nos J
9,400 do. o 15 do. ; . i 41 ,00i»
10,054 Prizes 300,000
10*046 Blank# —
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prites lhall be paid fifteen days afier the drawing i»
fiuilhed, upon 1 tie demand of a polTellot of a fortunate
iicket, fubjiit to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will oommence as soon as the I'ickcu are difpohd
01, or perhaps .ooner. ol which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjlner, William Witman,
J Jufiph Hiejler, J.-mes Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
Jame r May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the gth, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be hadat the
above office, where the earlisft information ot the draw
ing of the Waihington No. a, and Pattcrfon Lottery's,
are received, and check books for examination and resrif.
tcringarc kept.
Oeiober 7. 2a . vtf
PRINTEdTy JOHN FENjTo:
—No. 119— v
, CHFSHO T-l T«EET,
[Price Eight Dollars ytr Anmim.J