<§a?ette* m ®ntttts States, anb PPhiladelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1616.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR T GOQDS.
f" Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. |6>
xr j J south Front-street,
} Afternoon—Footraan & Co. No. 65
(_ South Front-street.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
rp ~ j Auflion, No. 73 foiiA Front-street.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 'B3 High-street.
ur, n C Afternoon —Peter Benfon, No. 74
w«i»efd«jy fouthThird . ftrcet<
<7"/_. . V Forehoon—Edward Fox.
J Afternoon—John Connelly.
7 Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afterrioon—John Connelly. .
Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
Friday
Saturday
United States, ") .«
Pcnnfylvania DiJlriS, '
IN pursuance of a writ to me directed from the
honorable Richaro Piters, Esq. Judge of the
Diftridt Court of the United States in and for the
PennfylvaniaDiftrift, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the CnJlom-houfe, in the city of Phi
ladelphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at II o'clock
at noon,
2 hampers of Earthen Ware
1 box of Indigo
1 ijox of Merchandize
1 half barrel do.
jr> bags of Cofl'ee
I barrel of Salt Petre
s barrels}
1 keg >- of Linens
I trunk )
l barrel of Sugar
1 bag of Pepper, and
Part o: 3 bags of Sugar
The aine having been libelled against, prosecuted
»>d condemned as forfeited, in tiie (aid Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marshal's Office, )
ad November, 1797. \
United States, 7 tr
Pcunfylvania Diftriß,y"'
IN pursuance of a writ to me dire&ed from the
honorable Richard Peters,Efq. Judge of the
DiilriA Court of the United States, in and for the
Pennsylvania Di.lrift, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the Cuflom-houfe in the city of Phila
delphia,- on Friday, the 17th inft. at 12 o'clotk,
at noon,
354 Silver Watches
30 gold Watches
500 Watch Keys
The fame havisg been libelled against, prosecuted
and condemned as forfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marflial's Office, )
id November, 179;. )
To be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On Moriday, the 13th day of November next,
at 11 o'clock in the forenoon, at the late dwel
ling plantation of Alex ANDtR Porter,Efq.
dec tared, in the Hundred and County, of New-
Cattle,
"All the Stock of the said Farm,
Confiding of hotft« fit for draught or fiddle,
colts, fit cattle, milch cow«, calves, fcveral
pairs of large and valuable oxen. Sheep arid
hogs (all the horned rattle and sheep, being of
a very large and fine breed) and also carts, har
row s, ploughs, and other farming utenlils, to
ge.her witli a variety of hou'fehold furniture.
The conditions of Sale will be made known,
at the. time and place aforefaid.
Mary Porter, Admrx.
New Cattle Hundred, State of )
Delaware, Oil. 20, 1797. J
All persons indebted to the ettate of the
said Alexander Porter, are requefled to make
payment, and th.ife who have demands against
the fame, to produce them duly authenticated,
for settlement.
Oft. -30.
To be Sold at Pablic Vendue,
(If not before difpoftd »f at private sale)
/\N Friday, ihe firft of December neat, at fix
Vv o'clock i« the evening, at ihe Merchant!' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acrei/ of LAND,
now or late in the Couniyof Walhington, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and on the water! of
Frelh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run. —
Theft Lands are fertile and well timbered, and were
patenteed early in 1737, except 3700 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in 179 a. One fourth
of the purchase money to be paid at the time of sale,
i or the residue a crrdit of one, two and three months,
will be given, on interell and good feturity.
OSober 6. 3 awtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
Clf not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Fridiy, (he firlt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House. in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se.
van Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Sulquehanna, now, or late,
in the tnwnthips of Hamden and Warren, and coun.
•ty of Montgomery One foirth of the
money it to be paid at the time of sale ; for the le-
Jiduc a credit of »ne, two, and three months will be
given, on intsreft and good security..
Otlofte 6.
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Glass is now commenced at. the Glass House in Bos
ton.
It is ncedlefs to fay any thing of the excellent
-quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every refpeS
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
Ic will be cut to any Gze commonly used ; and
may be confuntly had by applying to Charles F.
JCupriK, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be addrefled to
Ml-. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept jb, 1797. O 4—iaw6w
Mc(fr<: Timothy and Mafin, Clarleflm ; Mrjfrs.
and ißoyhn, Halifax, N. C. Messrs. IVi licit
M .,d O'Connor. Norfolk ; Mr. Ellis trice, Alexandria ;
Messrs. Tun J .t and Bre-wn, Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
Xttu-Vsxi ; and dfiejfrs. Hud/in ts" Gwdivin, Hart
ford ; Mr. Scymiw, Savannah ; are requeued to insert
the <ki Kite a -meet 6 wait. The accounts to ie for
warded to tie Editor. ■
teneriffe wine.
LANDING at Walnut-ftrect wharf, TENE
BIFFE WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes, for fa!« tyr JAMES YARD.
©A. !•.. ♦* Bfc
For Sale or Charter,
JgllL GOOD HOPE,
K-Mk&fffiSa Will carry about 1100 barrels,r.riii
~*~l is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
*™ w *" = ** apply to
No. iji, Doutli Secaod-ftreet.
WJio have forfait*—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, I.ifbon, acd TenerilCs wine.
November 7. , dtf.
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very firft quality, in pipes, hhds. and.
quarter calks, just lauded from the Ihijt Edward*
from Madeira, and for sale by
No. ia, Dock-street.
WHO HAS FOR CHARTER,
CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about 1200 barrels,
m j u st hove down and put in com
plete order, and now ready to receive a cargo.
Alfo t For SALE or CHARTER t
J ° S -EPH U S,
Burthen about 1800 barrels.
nruember 6,
For Liverpool,
/' The Ship
CLOTHIER,
NatlwnielD. Gardner,majltr,
"t T7"ILL fail about the 15th
\ V inft. For freight or paf
iage apply to ths Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf,
or to
Nov. 1
For Hamburgh,
The Ship
" WILMINGTON,
Captain Hllraan ;
A Staunch, faft failing, Phi
3xi£t£iS& £\ ladelphia, built veiTel, of
live oak and cedar, is now in complete order, and
will fail with all poflible speed, having great part of
her csirgo already engaged. For freight or pas
sage (having excellent accommodations) apply to
the captain on board, or to
Marjhal.
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
lasses, and afew thousand weight of excellent Cor
dage, including several Cables of 8$ &11 inches,
november 3. tuth&stf
1? or London,
WILLYAM?ENN,
James Jofiah, Majler,
' u/"ILL fail with all conven-
VV ient expedition. For
Marshal.
Freight or Pal Tags, apply to the Captain, er to
Jeffs & Rebert Wain.
'Oft. «i. f
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler.
TO fail with all convenient speed—a conliderfr
blc part of her cargo being already engaged.
For terms of 'Freight or Paflagc, apply to
Rofs & Simfdti..
o<fl. t;
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By fliK) Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, (r»m Oporto, in Pipes and Hogflieadf,
For fate by
WHO ALSO OFFfcRS FOR SAL*,
AMITY,
Four thousand barrels burthen,
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about thfee years old. »
likewise,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a ear
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above veflels at South ftrcet
wharf. eoim. Nov. 1.
JUST arrived at Wilmington,, Delaware
State, and now landing from' on hoard the
Brig A.-live, William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingftuorih & Co.
Wilmington, Sept.ai. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or Charter, and
now ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as Sbove.
3®wtS
THE S HIP
John Bulkley,
Samuel Volans, Majler.
' IR t of liveoalc
bifrtls burthen, and ready to receive on board a
"cargo.
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
«
Oil. 31
For Freight or Charter,
jpr A THE COOD DRIG .
s uk e y,
Is aac Vredenburg, Master j
NO Wlying"at Clifford's whan,and in compleat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain ®n board, or
John Siyrin,
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt. of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 buihels of Timothy Seed
150 cases of Claret, firll quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sep:. 1).
By John Fenno, N°- ii 9 Chef nut Street.
PHILADELPHIA:
Pragers Co.
JOHN CRAIG,
JAMES OLDDEN,
No. 41, N. Front-ftrect
Summerl Brown.
Who have on hand,
For London,
PETER BLIGHT.
Antigua Rum,
For Charter,
No. 81, Arch-street.
MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 13, 1797.
Philip Nicklin Es 5 Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut ilrect Wharf,
Hatannah Sugars, white and brown
15 hhds. Jamaica do.
3QOO pieces of broad Mankeent
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eightHiof chefti
Qukk£jlver hi tubs
Madeira Wine ip pipes and hojiHead,
Teneriffe Wine'in pipe?
Old led Fort Wine in hogsheads
Sail Canvass, afi'orted v No. I to 8
8 cases of Manchester Gqods, confining of Dimities,
Muflincts, &c.
200 crates Queens' War#, aflorted
Nails, aflorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in cafkg
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, See
100 quarter calks Gun Powder
Thev Lavt alfd.fvr SALE nr CHARTER,
HAMBURG''PACKET,
VSkSIjX&S' Burthen 310 tons, coppered to
the bends, and completely fitted.
TheJhip MOL.LT, burthen 340 tons, a
good velfel, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZONy burthen 1300 bar
rels, may fcc ready ior ft ain h few day».
The whole of the above vessels to be fern at
Walnut street Wharf. $ nov. IC.
3awtf.
■f3»v Wanted to Charter,
•-ft To one port in Hifpaniola and back
A faft failing Vessel, of the bur
th.cn of 6 or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to
Benjamin Mo*can,No. I'o, South Front: ltrpet,
or to
nw'r&.'r ID.
India Goods,
Haurial Hurohums
Tickiccs
1 Patna Chinta
TaffatL*
Punjum Cloths
Jhoppa Roma!, Pulicat, Barhar and Ban
danna Handkerchiefs
rOR 6/ibS BY
JoJhua Gilpin,
No. 149, South Front flreet,
WHXRE MAY BE HAD
A few trunks of French Goods,
Confuting of plain and striped Silk Hose, Um
brellas and Kibbons. Also, a few bona Sperma
ceti Candlrs, and a f«w barrels fmoaked Herrings.
nroember 10. *eod6t
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Boutdeaupe Brandy
Tenerife JVine
Molajfes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravent Duck and one hogjbead of faint
brujbcs. i
Frazer.
No. ySpSonth Front Street.
Nov. J
Drawing & Fainting Academy,
No- 6J, Wilnut-ftreet
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and the
generous public, that hisaeademy opens this
day, Novtniber the 6th.
Hours of tuition for ladie*, from * fill 4 in the
aftrrnoon, and is Ihe evening from 6 till 8 for
gentlemen.
J Cox hasaddsdto his collection of copies a va
riety of fine views*&c. drawn from nature dufiiig
hisabfence from the city:
All kinds of colours prepared, and every article
used in the different branches of drawing and
painting, fold on teal'onable terms.
Term* of Tuition, Six Dnlbiri anJ a half per
quarter.
A morning class for grown ladies, frrom II till
ia o'clock. djt n§v. 6.
James £f? Richard Smith,
r I~"AKE the liberty of informing their friends
L and' the public, that they have removed their
llore to No. 54, South frontJlrcct nejt.d«or to Ed
ward Fox'» Auitior. Room, where they have at
this time for faie, a large and general afTortment of
European is 1 Eajt India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Pcnn, &c. ftc,
Oft. 87
St. Croix Sugar Es? Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON 55" Co.
Oift. »6,
Samuel Pleafants Sff Sons,
No. 74, South Sccond-Jlreet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. OJA7—-i w
ROSS Ssf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE)
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal CO TI ON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxe«
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal J
o<ft. tj. §
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board —at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. G&. 2.7.-—dtf
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Land,
well watered, in a healthy fituatfon, about
seven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large fatuity, at a mode
rate expense, and poffcffiori had in a few v;eeki.
Part ®f the purchai'c-mofuv being paid, a reason
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer.'
novem'mr 3
Wanted, to H'rre,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the icntreof the city—for which a generous
tnt will be given ; to be taken for a year, er on
afe Tor a longer terra. Inquire of lit* .Printer.
OA. sy. 1
ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
CONSISTING OF
JAMES COX,
To be Sold,
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a fuperiflr quality—Also,
loodo.of' Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrof) Sims, and for fa!e
the lubfc'riber, corner of Second and Pine
street
nevemfrer 6,
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Store, No. 25, threat Dock-(lreet,
250 bales of Bengal Goods
Containing Baftas
Check and Stripes
Bandano Handkci thieft
Mamoody
Calicoes
II boxes Irifl) Linefls
I do. Diapers
7 ao, Umbrellas
20 canisters Java Sugar
78 bags black Pepper
lii do. "£atl India Ginger
iqo ca(ks roll Brimstone
70 pipes Madeira Wine
57 Caika Gin
A quantity oi fheathiug Copper ami Nails,
OAobci* 30. ;,avv3\v
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brnwn HolUnds
Whire Sheetings '
DowlafTes
Silesia bordered Handkerchief*
Striped Siareoufes
ISlack Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glafles, in
in cases, &c. &c.
novtmber 6.
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE NOW OPENING,
At their Warehaufe, No. 2J, Dock Street, a frelh
afTortment of Woolen and other goods, fuitablc to
the season, received by the Ute arrivali from Eng
land.
They have also f«r Sale,
Lisbon
Sherryfand f ln P'P es . hhd »- aod l ulrter "H""
Port Wines, J
A (Tor ted queen's ware in crates, &c,
roth mo* 23d,
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
IVbere be bat for Sale,
AVERY extenlive stock, of every colour, and
o'f the moll approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
A handsome aiTortment of the mod faihionable
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, arid
▼ery best Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety of Borden.
November I. eo6t
A Negro Man.
I?OR SALE, the unexpired me (four years)
of a stout, healthy, active cgro JVlan. He
is by trade a Cooper, was brought up when a boy
to the farming bufinels, is a good ploughman, un
der (land* the care and management of h»rfes, and
is a good driver He has lately been employed jq,
painiing a new house and paints well-—he i* good
tempered,and believed to be very honcll, fold part
ly for want of employ, but more for being addict
ed to liquor-»-For terms apply to No. l», Dock
ilreet, near Spruce street.
Nov. 6,
FOR SALE,
BT THE SUBSCRI££RS t
Madeira Wine, firft quality, hi
P'P" . .
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, m pipes
LiftionxWlNE, in pipes
NUTM EGS I °^ c Uteft importation, in boxes
Spanifii Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Wi,lings is? Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. it.
w&stf
HfiV. I
Just arrived.
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the fubferi-
bers, No. 21, Penn-flxeet,
642 hoglhcad*,"}
81 tierce. ( Prime Coffee
523 barrels (
646 bags J
OH. iS,
LANDING,
From 011 board the (hip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, frem London,
60 tons of the best clean Russia
HEMP
60 raflcs of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubicribers, No. 41, P«nn-(lrcet
Willings & Francis.
oa. 31
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Mfo, a general affortm«nt of Tools,
Eiks and Materials, co a filling of Clock Move
ments, eight day ar.d thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pu.T\ice Stone, Emery,
Rott«n Stone, Cat Gat j bench, fla«d and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers, Chains, Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
* % * Apprentices Wanted.
novembcr 3.
RE MOV A L.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his fritnci and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, GUIs, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north eaO
corner of Cherry Alley,"where he tolicitj tllcfa
vcr of his former customers.
mwftf
N.B. Crates put up «ucf at fclie Ihortcft
notice.
BOTt»!>«* *•
=V.=3
C. Haight.
eotf
Goffas
Gurrqhs
Moragugtmgces
T ooksr'y
George Pennock.
eod^w
diwjtawjw.
ALSO
Willings & Francis.
b
firtutf
Insurance Company of North
America.
"I he Steckhclders are-informed, that a meet
ing is to be held, by adjournment, at the Com
pany's Office, iu Front Street, on Micd.iy next
tke xjth inft. at 12 o'docli.
Eden. Hazard, Sec'ry.
djt.
Nov. 9,
Landing this day,
From on board tha schooner Two Friends, Dan-
iel Crawley, Maftt-r,
Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
i
uorutmhrr 9
FOR SALE, tr
Joseph Anthony Sff Co.
No. 5, Chcfnnt Street,
A cargo; ps choice fcourdeaux Brandy, ift and ad
proof, just landed 1
250 bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A Quantity cf heavy black pepper in bales
£our,hon ltidigo of the £rft quality
High ptoof Jamaicaipirits '
Old London particular Madeira wine 7 In pipes &
do. market do C <jr. calks.
New England rum in
Genuine Holland Gin m pipes
.
Spermaceti candles andftrain'd on
, ■ ,
Choice ftalifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
De. Herring in do do
Bed Boston Maekartl in barrels of the fall fare.
New-Engiand r.»w l ; Hcn
A few lohs of Ruflia cordage
Russia feather beds
Clover and Timothy feed ia :afks
Long whale-bone
No. i, a, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chells firlt quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
November 8.
Philadelphia, 03. 24th, 1797.""
ALL persons desirous to contrail to furnilh Rj.
tions and Quarter Milter's Stores,during the
year 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on Mud lfland, Carlisle and Reading, or
any of them, are desired to deliver their proposals,
under a sealed cover, oh or before the loth No
vember next, to
TENCH FRANCIS, jPwi&ptf^
The Rations to wnfifl §f
I pound Flour or Bread
I pound Beef, or 3-4 of a pound of Porl:
£ gill Rum, Brandy or Whifkay
X lb. Candles
% lb. Soap /
1 quart* Vinegar # eTCI 7 hundred ratios
Wharton and Lewis,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Store and Inlurance Office for flapping
No. 115, South, Front flreet,
Jamaica Rum, 4th proof, ") entitled to
Alicant Brandy, ift & id proof j drawback.
Madeira Wine, and
few hogfheadi of Juniper Berries,
Oflobcr 31
FOR SALE,
By the S,ubsckibek, at hit Store, Noi yj, Soath
Water-street,
A general a'flortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattih*
Do. do. Lwteftrings
Do. d«. Handkerchief*
Do. do. sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and ihort Kaukeeris
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
AlTorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sagars* in boiM
MolalTes, in hogsheads
St. £rou Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeiri Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wiaei, in quarter Ca&v
Red, yellow and pale Barks, iu chtil»
Logwood, &c. &c.
nsv, 7. —ruscf4\r
Landing,
From on board the ship Edward, at Walnut
flreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Win*,
of a superior quality, For Sale by the subscriber.
Robert Andrews.
novembcr j.
For I'ale by the Subicriber,
No. Sg, South Third street,
A few calks of high proof Brandy
60 Tierces frelh Rice
40 Boxes of C hocolate
A large quantity of aflorted window glass, and
»oo pieces fail cloth, No. 1 to 8
t Ravens Duck, Mare and Gum Senegal.
Samuel Brcck, yun.
N. B. An excellent Compting House to let om
Roili's wharf. 6teod Nov. 1.
N 0 7 I C E.
The holders of certificates of a
loan to tkc exiled citizen! of the State ef South Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an ail of Congress sji
July, 1781, are informed, that by lodging the f.m«
with George Simpfon, CaJhicr of the Bank of tit*
United States, they will be enabled to receive pay
ment of principal and intcreft, a»foonasthe certi
ficates caa be forwarded to Charleston for l"ettl«-
ment, and orders received for their discharge.
November I. fit
j w 15 Dollars Reward.
[ A N• AW AY from the Sublcriber, on the »9tV
I' lv inft. an apprentice I.ad, named JOSEPH
BARNET, by trade a paper-maker; about it>
yean of age, five feet seven or eight inches high,
of alight complexion, ties his hair. Had on, and
took with )iim, acaftor hat, half wern, one bro\a'»
I mixture cloth coatee, new, one light do. half
[worn, one striped velvet waistcoat, with blufc
, clolh backs, one do. with fuftian backs, and fun
| dry other thin clothes. It is prot*ble he will chang*
I his clothes, as he took a number with him.
Any peifon apprehending said apprentice, and
securing fo that 1 can g;t him again, flisll re
ceive the above reward, and reafonible charges if
brought home.
Lower Mcrion townfiiio,
Montgomery county.
C&ebjar ip, V Jy-rXaw 3*.
[_FQLL'3JS 'XII.
Oivr.
&tftigtUN
corf
JOSEPH. SIMS.
eotf
4'ETEK. BECHT^,."T
%i)t Wtfotitt.
PHILADELPHIA,
MONO AY EVENING, NOVEMBER i,V
"be fotloivl^g^'among, a variety of other impor
ts »d necefTsry articles of information, may be found in
tbrt v.rry treat and ujtful publication u The A merit an
fopyf/joty and Annual Rc nfler" ly B. Davis, 68
High freet^l
ABSTRACT.
Duties im'pofed, by an aft of Coii-refs in all
,S r aml'ed vellum, parchment and puper, for and
during the urm of five years the ,;ill day
of I)'Ceinber, 1797. viz.
On 1 cettificatt of naturalization 5 dqls.
certificate of ad,n'jjion enrolment or re-")
giftry of any counfeller, solicitor, C xodoll*.
attorniv, advocate or proftor in any f 1 '
court of the United States 3
letter patent under the feai ol the Uni- ~)
'ted States, except for land granted > 4 dolls,
for military fervlces J
certificate copy of any such letters patent, » dolls.
charter party, bottomry, or ref[mnden-") l do] _
tial koni J
On a receipt or other discharge on account'
of a left by will, or other tv?i\a
nie-.Hi'ry" inflrismcrt, or for any part
of 1 j-..vfet:aleftite divided by a ill- •»j cts.
rutcot Jifiribuiion, thj value where
of is above fifty and not exceeding
one hundred dollars
where the value is ahovc ico and"? ~ 0 cts
tiot ciceedirg s®® dollars J
and for every further sum of 500 "> £
dollars, the additional sum of J
, ■ ■ ■ nulicy ofwfurarre on a Ihip or vcffel or
goods goi*g from one di(lri& to a >ls cn.
nother cf the United States 3
from the United States to any foreign ")
port, when the sum iofured doesnot S *5 cti.
exceed dollars J
when it does exceed 500 dollars, I dol.
an exemplification with the seal of">
other than what it furnifhed (
for the use of the United States, or f
any particular Rate J
A hand, bill fmgle or penal, foreign or inland bill of
exchange, any note for the security of money,
according to the following fcalc,
For any furn above 10 and not exceeding 100 I©
iotf s°° «5
500 1 5 o
ICC®
But all bond", cr note* payable at or within 60 dayi
fhalt heful only t0 Uvo fifths of * hc clut "- 3
ajorefai. 1 .
Bank nates,
Not exceeding 50 dollars at the rite of 3-^th
of a cent tor every dollar
above 50 and not exceeding 100 dols. 50 cts.
above 100 and not exceeding 500 dolt. 1 do!
above 500 idol?.
The secretary of the treaHiry isauthorifed to com
pound with any bank or banks for the amount
-of the (Vamp duties by receiving one per centum
on theamount of the annual dividend of fuchbank.
Aj» otcji or other notarial a S 35 cts.
—Ulttrof aitormt, except for pensions, or
tnobtain orfcllwarrannfor lands.gran- Szs cts.
ted as bounty f.-r military fcrvices }
or Umlur! for drawback! for ) y do j
ltiis than 500 <Ms. J
for 500 » nd & ot exceeding") %
acco do\s. S
for more than zzoo dols. 3 dols.
mlt sr til! cf lading of goods exported") Jo £t .
from one diftriS to another j
ditto, to any foreign port, 15 ct».
An invtntuy for goods or effcils
by law (except where they are distrain- (
ed for rent or taxee, 01 taken by an of- f
ficer in a legal procef» J
A crtifiati of a Jhttrt in any bank, above > Jo ct^
a© and not exceeding ico dola. J
above 100 dollars 25 centi
under 20 dollar* at the rateof 10 cent
for one hundred doll,
for any less sum the fame.
- • 1; r. 1 •''
N. B. Legacies left by willof=nypart ofaper
onal eftafeto the wife,children cr grand children,
or divided among thorn by ar.y ftatutt of distribu
tions; and recognisances, bills, bonds and other
obligations that {hall be. made to the United States
or any (late, duty.
<jn pui'uia of imjurvue dial be duly stamped and
made Ml within the space of three day# at fartheft,
under th.' penalty of twenty dollars for every of.
fenee. And all promissory-notes for the affu ranee
of (hiss or good? at (>a or going to sea, in lieu of
a policy, (hall be void.
Allkinisnf writing, relative to thehire or freight
of a (hip, f<>* the conveyance of money, goods or
other efrcas fnall be deemed a charter party.
Every receipt for money, in part or whole, of
a legacy ef a perfnnal eflate, fubjeft to duty, (ball
therein the true sum that has been paid,
under the penalty of twenty dollars': And every
receipt in fulllhall be deemed f- r thewhole amount
r f the legacy, lmlcfs it appear that what was paid
prsviouCy, if any, was acknowledged on ft amp
paper.
Even mwf'Uer, solicitor. attorney, proSor or
advocate, before he shall prof, cute or defend any
a&ioii in any court of the United States, (hall take
a (tamped certificate of his adm.flion from the
clerk or pro'honotary of the court.
The fupervilors of the revenue are empowersd
»nd required, upon the application of any pcrfon
vellum, parchment or paper, on his paying th< du
ties tefpeftively dire6lcd.
instruments aforementioned ©n parchment, vellum
or paper uuftamped, or {lamped with less duties
fwith intent to evade the law) (hall forfeit lor ev
ery offence 600 dollars.
office, who (hall be gtiity of the fame offence 01
with (lamps which he knows to be counterfeit, ihal
forfeit SOO dollars ; and the officer (hall forfeit hi
effiae.
No inflrument of writing whatever (rubjecl tr
duty) (hall be pleaded or given in evidence in an;
court, unless it be duly (lamped—the offender filal
forfeit 10 dollars for every such offence, over am
above the flat- d duty.
Every person wb° fiiall counterfeit the stamps,
make use of or vend them knowing them to be
counterfeit, ftiall be fubjeft to a fine ot iooo dol
lars, and 7 years imprisonment.
The Canal Lottery,
Will re-commence drawing, on Monday
the 20th inft.
ROBERT BROOKE,
Nov. 11.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time pad in prepare,
tions for removing into prsfent house, has
been under theneceflity of poftpflninguniii this day
informing the geHtlemen of the Bar generally thr«'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
termsthat he. trusts will entitlehim ( to th»li!:e pre
frcence he has experienced for leveral years palt.
Catalogues, oom'uining the mot varied colic c
tion ever "imported i/ito this country, arc printed
on application./
JUE« >7*
Late Foreign Intelligence.
RfiLALIVE TO THt. CONSPIRACY.
Declaration of Duvefne Depreffe, or Du
nant, annexed to the secret register of the
Direftory, n Ventofe, sth year.
( Concluded fram Thursday's Gaz.)
" CITIZENS,
"In order to attain tKe obje& propnfed,,
the commandant circles {hall en
deavour to difc;n er the charafter and opin»v
ions of every individual in their, canton,
which is an easy matter. The revolution
has pronounced in tin departments-the chi
rafter of every individual in Rich a manner
that" every man might boldly judge of the
character of his neighbour.
" They {hall chufc the mod courageous
royalists, and form them into companies ;
the quantity and number of whicli (hould be
proportioned to the pecuniary means which
the agents (hould be able to dedicate to that
service. They {hall furnilh them wiih arms
and ammunition.
" The companies (hall always be ready to.
assemble, especially during the fitting of the
primary assemblies. At this epoch their ob»
je£t (hall be to check every party, armed or
not armed, which (hould attempt to opppfe
the freedom ofekftion ; it being always un
derstood that they (hall never take up arms
firft, and never (how themselves but under
republican colours. They (hall hava, be
sides, another objeft in view, that of forejng
by threats or otherwise, thetnembers of the
philanthropic institution to attend the pri
mary assemblies.
" The latter and their other agents {hall
endeavour to gain over the leaders of differ
ent corps, or even whole corps, and these
(hall remain with their ftandarda, or encou
rage and facilitate desertion. They (hall
keep the diferteis in the country, under pre
text of employing them in the labours of ag
riculture, and enrol them only as occasion
do lt etJ,
requires,
" In the provinces where infurreftions
have exilted, the commandants (hall spare
no pains to preserve and to augment the spi
rit of royalifm. They (hall prepare the pea
sants for a new infurre&ion, but they (hall
not excite any commotion, but in conse
quence of formal orders of superior agents.
" If it (hould happen that the fuccefi of
the military preparations (hould be such as
to permit a reafjpnable hope that an imme
diate qwrthrow of the government might be
effe&ed, then the mode of proceeding thro'
the medium of the primary aflemblies (liall
be abandoned, and the favourable moment
(hall be ftized to arrive diredtly at the object
propofedthe pureand simple re-eftablifhnynt
of monarchy. It belongs to the agents to
judge in what cireumftance it may be ad
visable. In a word, after the agents at Paris
(hall deem it certain that the king mult spee
dily be proclaimed either in confequonce of
the measures to be taken by the councils, in
which there was to be a majority of his
partizans, or by mea;i9of military force,they
(hould instantly fend a fteadj' royalist, in or r
der to give him intimation, and to bring a
pWnce of the blood, and that as soon as pof
fibl« the royalists (hould hare a chief who
(hould filtnce all jealousy and private ambi
tion.
« In order to prepare and devolve this
plan, funds must be neceflary, and these
could be furnifhed by England alone.
" M. de Precy, for the use of the agents
with which he is entrusted, is authorized to
draw upon M. Wickham, the English minis
ter in Switzerland, for the funds which he
should judge neceflary, with the approbation
of M. Wickham.
" And I myfelf obtained
60,c001. fter. for«<air preparatory expences.
We had the afluraiice of a sum of 30,0001.
sterling, which was to have been paid to me
the month that the King's proclamation
should be ifiiied, on condition that we (hould
not begin to aft before the eleftions; —
15,0001. sterling for the purchale ps white
uniforms, in order to furnifh the arefs of
-certain corps, payable when a bargain offer
ed at the fame time when the king's procla
mation should be issued.
J " In a word, through our hinds were to
be tranfmittrd funds, the amount of which
wds not yet afcertairied, in order to be con
veyed to M. M. de Puifaye and de Frotte,
whose situation demands expenses more con
siderable than that of our other diftri&s.
" Although the plan was only definitively
adopted very lately, although no part of the
funds which I obtained, had yet arrived, we>
must not conclude, however, that this was n
mere sketch. All the ancient elements were
colle&ed, and our position was as follows :
" M. de Puifaye, who, already in a situa
tion alone to effeft a counter revolution, was
anxious to declare himfelf. We had hither
to prevented him. He has since extended
his eorrefpondence from Brest, as far as La
velle. I believe he reckons upon several
corps employed in that quarter.
" M. de Frotte was still in London at the
period of my departure. But he calculated
upon proceeding immediately to Normandy,
where he had left the officers who had for
merly served under his command. From the
letters it would appear that,the difpofitiors
of the country were extremely favour
able. They demanded the return or their
chief. They prefled him eartieftly ; for
the royalists, who were certain of our
Canton, conceive that they have only to de
clare themselves, and the counter revolution
will be effected. M. de Frotte is pofleffed
of judgment and talents—he is one of our
belt chiefs.
Check Clerk,
duo.
" M. d'e Rochecot, who isentrufted with
the talk ofpreparing Le Maine, L« Perche,
and Le Pays Chartrain, was lately at Paris.
He is a young man, very a&ive, and very in
telligent. His military organization consists
only of a few hundred men, but this limi
tationis only hecaufe there were not fufiicient
funds to engage more. He allured us that
in his part of the «ountry every body pro
2aw
PARIS, September 5
PAPERS
ceeded beyond the philanthropic inditution,
in order to become member? of the faithful.
M. de Rochecot fpakeof the correspondence
which he had with the corps stationed
throughout Le Maine. He had some even
ajt Caen. [There arc fame things relative to
him, rv/jich lam unwilling to mention, except
verbally.']
" M. de Bourmont has just begun hisope
rations from L'Orient as far as Paris. —ln
this party there are a great many philan
thropes. The royalists arc more rare.
" M. Mallet, formerly adjutant major of
the Chateau Vieux, was entrusted with the
department of Upper Normandy, and the
Ide of France to Paris, for all our diftri&s
for 50 leagues round form a triangle, of
which one angle reds apon Paris. It is
completely organized, and will have a plenty
of men, provided there be money enough.
It is 111 the belt state of preparation for the
elections.
" In the Orleannois one M. de Juglat is
employed. Ido not know the situation in
which he stands. I believe, hwwever, he has
.made considerable progress.
" The coast of Picardy, that of Sennonias
and La Brie, are (till destitute of chiefs, and
of consequence without organization. We
expe&ed a M. Buttes, who is announced to
us as-pofifcffing exteniive connexions in the
firft of the'e provinces.
" We dire&ed our attention to the objeft
of renewing our correspondence in La Ven
dee. We are afTured of success at Haut
Poiton. A chevalier de Paller Duparc
our organization. He as
serts that he has correspondence even at
Rochefort. The duke de Longe was im
mediately to repair to Bourdeaux from Eng
land, in order to organize that country un
der our direftion.
" At Paris irhere are two companies form
ed. One of them I believe it under the
command of M. de Trenville ; I dost kn«w
the commandant «f the other. • Paris, as
you may ealily imagine, is the focus of our
communications. Hitherto we had not at
tempted agy corruption by money. We
fhocld now ha»e attempted it, in o»der to
proCiirt'dccurate information of the funds of
government I have told you that I had in
my bands the plan of a dejeent upon Ireland,
or rather the report of Carnal relativt to that
plan, I know Very quell how it was procured,
but not by whom.—This, however, I could
easily learn.
" We confidcr it as of very great, impor
tance to gain the police. We had mad made
very little progress in this objeft, but you
know that we had already made the firft ad
vances. Every week we received extracts
from the report of the commiflioners of the
executive power upon the state of opinion
in the departments.
" I know not from whence tke opinion
arose, th3t the minister of police not
be ill-disposed to serve us ; probably because
he was considered as moderate, and i 6 inces
santly the objeA ef the hostility of the Jaco
bins.
" We entertained the fame fentimeirts of
the minister of the interior, probably for the
fame reafom.
" But it is the councils where we met
with most encouragement. Since the month
of June lad propofalnvere made to us in the
name of a party which stated itfelf to be very
powerful. We traufmitted them to the
king. Tliey offered to afiill his canfe pro
vided there was no other change in the ex
illing constitution than the concentration of
the executive power in his person. The king
accepted the service, but offered to discuss
the condition. He acaordiiigly desired that
a person Ihould be sent to him prop#rly au
thorized. Since that period he has continued
to urge this demand ; but the party being
much'more feeble than they had teprefented,
has relaxed in its pretentions without re
nouncing them entirely. On our fide,
thinking to be able to restore the throne
through the assistance of the two councils,
we were of opinion that they Ihould remain
matters with regard to the terms to be im
pofecj upon the king, and we did not urge
the mffiion. About two months ago a
person set out, who, I believe, carried with
him a lift of the members who are desirous
of monarchy, the nnmberof which amounts
to 184. Upon this point I will not affirm
with confidence. The evening, or the even
ing befor< our arrest, a person had come
to propose to Jjive the king a lift of lixty
members more. He pledged himfelf to ob
tain a declaretiot! fromthe son of the duke
of Orleans, that he did not, nor ever would
pretend to the -throne. He engaged, be
sides to fend the young prince to the king,
but a number of conditions were required.
You will perceive that we had lifteued atten
tively to every proposition, that we made
ample promises, without incurring however 1
any obligations.
" The importance of which it might be
to our cause, to gain the corps connected
with the different services at Paris, render
this a principal objeft of our attention. We
had some success in our quarter, and we
were naturally led to expeft still greater
progress, since it was in consequence of the
steps taken in order to realize this hope that
we were arretted. Several of our agents
were employed in founding particular admi
nistrations. One.of them even has told me
that ten presidents of municipal administra
tions were gained over, but it would be Im-'
propcrto rely too much oq this observation.
The rOyali.ls have always deceived them
selves with regard to the number of their
partisans.
" You are aware that we have paid for
more than one pamphlet; that we hate given
articles for insertion in more than one Jour
nal, and mortf than once given money to
certain Journalists.
" If the reports of a great number of
these papers arc to be credited, and the
notes which we procured from the police,
we had a great advantage of exprtflion tin
our favor : you cannot doubt that with the
money which we were about to receive, that
we should have been able greatly to extend
and dtvelope cur means. 1 here confine the
ehumeration ; I ltiay have forgot some of
them ; other fadts there are to which I will
only speak verbally.
" The agency of M. de Precy is in a
very different situation from ours.—Hither
to his preparations have not been much di
rected to military affairs, and it is only very
latdy that he has adopted our political
measures, He is at pfefent at Berne, where
he very regularly receives the accounts trans
mitted to him by particular agents ; he had
conneftions through the whole of the
South. Last vea l , - lieju.d great difficulty
in restraining the ardour of a party among
them, who were very desirous of an infui
refiion. It at Lyons where he has most
partizans. His great objeft is to secure
some strong town, in order to facilitate the
entrance of the army of Conde into France.
I am certain there is a ■correspondence with
the people at Bef?:icon ; I have never yet
had the 1 time to resume my correspondence
with them, and I have no means of know
ing any thing with regard to their situation.
" As far as some names are concerned,
you are now as well informed as I am, with
regard to the secrets of the conspiracy. In
order to overthrow it, I am perfeftly con
vinced that it wtmld be fufficient to publish
my letter and the regulations of the two so
cieties. At the perusal of this declaration,
you will fee all the royalists again fink to
the earth, and for this time you may be
perfectly tranquil; but it is not enough
that they should defifl from them for a mo
ment. It is necefTary for ever to root the
idea from their minds. It is necefTary to
turn to the advantage of the government
the discovery of the present conspiracy,
and to resign into its hands the threads by
which others may be-traced. I proceed to
develope this last part, and I shall then give
my opinion "upon the other. Two things
must happen—the firft, that the royalists
who imagiue that the government is only
in poffefiion of the chiefs of the coufpiracy>
and nothing at all of its general train, and
who -at the fame time arc attached to the
principles of moderation upon which our
plan is founded, will be desirous to continue
it. In consequence, they will propose to
the king and the Englilh to fend in con
jundtion one or more new agents to fuceeed
us, and to fallow our trad, but with flill
greater precaution. The other thing is,
that a Royalist Party, which is convinced
that it is impofijble to overthrow the Go
vernment by any other means thas by vio
lence, strengthened by our bad fuecefs,
will at once present themselves at London
and at Blankenbyrg, and desire to be en
trufled with those means which we were a
bout to. employ so difadvantageoufly, pro
mising that by the alliances which they will
contract with the Jacobins, those energet
ic men they will thus throw France back
into the system of terror, and from the sys
tem of terror to the Throne. That party
would be at London, if it were to be rejeft
ed at|Blankenburg. But it is by no means
certain that it would be rejeiled in that
Court, and in that cafe the English Minis
ter, in order to avoid the appearance of be
ing apprized of the means to be employed,
would allow the business to proceed.
" To this long explanation T have just a
notherword to add. There exists a formed
Party, which reckons u,"jn the future sup
port of Spain. At the head of this party
are M. M. de la Vauguyoo and D' Antria
gues. I (hall give their channels of corre
spondence with the Interior. This party
think that they have on their fide the King
of Spain, and among other individuals the
Marquis de las Cafas.
(An exaft Copy) (Signed) " Limodin
(An exaft Copy ) ( Signed) " Cochon.
" Miuifterof the-General Police."
PARIS, Sept. 2.
From the Ami des Loix,
They announce the arrival at Paris, aftera
fix years absence, of the marquisd'Eftampes
rue Honore, No. 344 ; of count d'
Ecquevilly, rue St. Louis au Marais, No.
75 ; of Count du Gruel, Palace Royale,
No. 5 ; of vifcountde Belmaye, rue drAn
jou Honore, No. 112; of the marquis'de
Perfan, rue des Petit Auguftins, No. 25 ;
of Damean, who emigrated in Vendemaire,
rue des St. Peres. Also of the Baron de
Govey, Chevalier de Courtin, the marquis
de Croix, the compte de Hautefort, le
comte d'Hautoy ; but as these gentlemen
have 110 fixed place of abode, it is useless
to inform their frixnde of their return.
From the Sentinel/e.
Lareveilliere Lepaux is President of the
Dire'ftory :—this does not feern to be very
agreeable to the anti-direftorials.
Citizen Bangard, commander of the squa
dron in the 21ft dragoons, succeeds Ivlalo
as commander of that regiment.
The news is spread that the van-guard
of the part of the army of Italy defined to
pacify the South is already arrived at Nice.
They write from Constantinople that the
Pacha of Belgrade, who had marched a
ga'nft the rebels of Romelia, has been at
tacked and beat by the latter, at th# en
trance of that province. He left fix hiin
dred/nien on the field of battle. It is said
that he retired into a neighbouring Sown,
where he proposes to affcmble new troops.
The decree of famine pafled some days a
go, begins, as we then foretold, to produce
its effedts. Bread is growing 'dearer, and
several of our departments are threatened
with an approaching scarcity.
From the Htjlorten,
There is in France one party, perhaps
two, and perhaps even three, who would
co'nfider pe;fce as a punishment to them.—
At the moment in which it should take
place, several invisible agents would be a?
bout to kindle the flames of diflention.
We had scarcely time to announce forne
hopes of peace, and to remark some adls of
conciliation on the part of the councils and
the dire&ory, when immediately new at
tempts were made to excite them, if poflible
against one another.
The P-.edat.teur, which, though disavow-
Ed as official, is not less um!i r official ia„
fluence, has dared to resume a threatening
and abufivc tone again ft the legislative bo
dies.
The quarrels and the skirmishes refpeft*
ing the colour of the collars have recom
menced.
A fort of fatality has led the order of the
day in the Council of Elders to those deli
cate questions of which a lkilful species of
perfidy has been able to mislead the zeal «f
the armies, whom prudence ftiould seek to
enlighten. We have; however, reason to
believe, that public order will not be distur
bed, and that the constitutional laws will
be refpeded. We could ebferve, during
the last crlfis, as during the period which
preceded it, that the public opinion was
strongly pronounced for the support of the
constitution, and that it was adverse to every
attack, and even to every appearance of at
tack on this pledge of its repose. It will
even incline towards that party which shall
maintain with force and moderation aa ho
nourable defence. Beyond this, there is
nothing bet error and danger.
From the Journal du So'ir.
Frankfort, August 16.
We are iaformed bythcnews which reach
ed this place eight days ago, and which ha:
in the interval been often confirmed by pri
vate letters as well from Vienna a 9 from Ita
ly, that peace has been signed at Udino by
the plenipotentiaries of Austria and France,
—the refpeftive Coariers are on their road
to the Court of Vienna, and the dire&ory
at Paris, in order to procure their approba
tion of this definitive and feperate peace,
which will only be made public after the ne
ceflary ratification of it. By this peace all
the Venetian Terra Finna, as far as Oglio,
is ceded to the House of Austria, andton
fequently Mantua, Brefcin, &c. The pro
vinces of Limburg Luxemburg also re
main provisionally with the Emperor, and
these countries will be retlored to him in the
firft We arc even affiired, that
the city of Ma,eftricht, the county Vroen
haven, and the parts of the countrias
Drelhem, Franquemont, and Roldue, ce
ded by Holland to the French republic will
be in like manner surrendered to his Impe
rial roajefty :—thefe provinces, cities, and
countries, will be exchanged for part of Ba
varia, in which the fortreffes of Ulm and
Ingolftadt arc situated ; and we are even as
sured that this exchange is already conclu
ded ; the eleftor and his preemptive heir,
the Duke de Detix Psnts, having agreed ta
it and signed it.
AIX-LA-CHAPELLE, Aug. 19.
Baron Loe d'lnftenraent, member for
the ftatcs of the country of Limbourg, and'
and brother-in-law to Count Meerfcldt, ple
nipotentiary from the Emperor to the Gon
grefs at Montebello and Udina, has receiv
ed intelligence from good authority, that
the provinces of Limbourg and Luxem
bourd are reilored to the Emperor by the
peace concluded with the French republic.
J'rom a late London paper,
LlB'KTr,
floiX) ill qualified the multitude are to govern
themfehes, to discern the true from the falfe
friend tp discover the cheats praftifed upon
their under/landings, by those who call them
selvesf elves their champoins, or to ajfert the dignity of
their country, appears but too clearly from the
condua of Buonaparte in La\, and the fubmif.
fton of millions to be plundered in the name of
Liberty—Buonaparte tels the people there that
they are the true and only legitimate fevereigns
of the countries they inhabit ; and all lands hi
therto enjoyed by corporate bodies, are their
(the peoplc'sjproperty by right of sovereignty ;
and the sovereign inhabitants have an unalie
nable and imprefcrjptible right to frametheir
own government and laws.—But mark haw
hefollows up this declaration of rights:—by his r
own authority, or thai of the French Dire dory,
he conffcated to theufe of the French Republic
several rich Abbies in the territory of Verona,
which, according to his own principles, if they
■were to be found any where but on his lips, are
the property of the people, in the m'tdjl of whom
they aref.tuated , and which he could not ap
propriate to the us' of France, without convid
itg himfelf cf robbery by forcibly taking nation
al lands, from those whom he called and ac
knowledged to be their rightful owners - —the
People.—On -the other hand, he. hasJlifulated
in the Preliminary treaty of peace with Aujlria
that feveralprovinces, cities, and ijlands, late
ly belonging to Venice, should pass underlie,
dominions of the Emperor, without any previ
cus consent on the part of the inhabitants either
given or a/led. Thus, completely difregetrding
his own boajlcddeclaration of the unalienable
and imprefcript able rights of the people to
choose their own form of government, It trans
fers them Hie MuJ'covitcs or Negroes in the
/ Ifefl Indies, or tattle on a farm, to new mxflers
without deigning to cnfult their inclination on
the fubjed, or indeed any thing but the conveni
ence of the French republic. Will not this ferie
as a warning to England, and to the ir/l of
Europe, to put any faith in French prtff/fwi s
or in French principles, which are calculated
only T to proms te the ambitions views of that
rejllef nation, at the expence of the htippwfs
> und tranqu ility of every one of its nighbt.urs,
PLViiidelplAa, Oil. 13.
riH fubfcril-.er? ii form [lk 11' i'riariclt and cuflo
nvrs in town und ecu-try,tfca> their ftflresart: now
open hi fh.- »"uy» ?nd others arc daily opening, and
thai from :h* j' r "l ; .r appearance ©f the prevailing
dilordcr have reafyn to hope, their friends may
tf-orrly come to the city with per ft d faf ty. By
fevi-al late anivais, numbers have received fre(h
Xupplies cf (JOODS.
Robert Smith ly Co. P W. GattamJef & Co.
yah" pii'ui.t (St Clo. i-itgreavet ¥rett'eh,
Kri'l U Smith, George Dm/fun,
ffiltbtrger and Smith, 'Thomas Kierfon,
Altx Liljland qnd Ce. T. K. I'.anlenberg.
Jacob Spetry and Co. j'obn Smith and Co'
Owen & Jorta'. Jones, Tben-.as Orr,
KfppeU <5 Zailtxmger, K'ilJiam Barker £3' Co.
/Idam 7.»itx-Kger, Tl»h:as Armal& Son.
John Fries, ~J. Miiier, jt.ru 9hd Cfl*
Bcnj imi-i &J. Jthnfon* /
Oit. 14m
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, November 11
TURKS ISLAND.
We can from 'the belt authority inform
the public, that Salt can be purchased at
Turks Illand lower at present, than has ever
been remembered since our disunion with
Great-Britain. The French privateers have
interrupted almod every vessel bound there
from the Windward Iflnnds, which has re
duced the inhabitants to the greated scarcity
both of money and provisions. A more
favorable fait season has never been remem
bered than the present, which, added to the
large quantities of last year's crop, kept up
by speculator's for a high market, has oc
casioned this rapid fall in the price.—On the
15th of-Augud lad, the (hip Edward, of
Providence, (R. I.) owned by Edward
Dider, merchant there, and commanded by
John Pattis, arrived with about 400 bufliels
of corn, a dozen barrels of flour, and 3 or
4 barrels of beef and pork—He carried no
ca(h, and was obliged to fell as much corn
r.t VB (hillings per buftiel, as would pay his
tonnage duty and fees—the remainder he
put up at vendue, payable in fait at the
nominal market price, which was eighteen
pence—His corn brought thirty {hillings
perbufhel, his flour, beef and pork in pro
portion, so, with that trifling adventure, he
loaded his own (hip, and left a surplus of
fait behind, fijfficient tcjoad two more such
vessels, wliieh he will fei*} for on his arrival. t
Had he carried cash, he might have pur
chased his cargo at five pence per bushel. j
There are sworn measurers appointed in :
the island, and the bushel tub measuring 38
Vine quarts is Aamped by an infpeftor, lo
that the ufiial deficiency on fait cargoei is
not much to be apprehended. There is also
a new regulation in the boating, which ena
bled captain Pattis to load his flip in four
hours. Americans are treated with the ut
most kindnef» and attention. The island of
Grand Key has been lately fortified, since
which, the have been principally
governed by military law.
The number of laws made in France since
the commencement of the revolution, ia
computed to amount to upwards of 16,000 !
It is said that the eicpeftations of a peace
had, in England, got to be very sanguine,
btfore the late change of affairs in Paris.
Mr. Boyd, one of the mod moniid men of
London, had jult before visited Paris on a
paflport from Carnot; and during a short
relidence there had become so assured of a
fp'eedy peace, as to induce him to purchase
jn the British funds to an immeofe amount.
By an edift of the king of Spain, the
immunity of his coafls has been fixed at
2950 toifes, All the (hips which fliall be
taken at a greater distance are to be con
sidered as taken on the high seas.
We read in the mefTage from the direfto
ry, published in the Redafteur, that the
arrears up to the 33d of September lad, a
mount to about 700 millions. If we fup
poie that the expenses in arrear since that
period, amount to a likefum, which appears
to be a tolerable accurate calculation, we
mnft conclude that the debt of the (late has
increased, since the fupprelTion of th« aflig
nats, near 1500 millions.
(Tableau dela France et de I'Europe.)
It is (aid to be the intention of the em
peror of Russia to open an asylum, when
p?ace fliall take plaee, for all French emi
grants, and to grant the chief of them the
privileges enjoyed by the Ruffian nobility.
Handed us b\ a gentleman for publication
Captain Mat. Berryman, ship Theodore,
bound to Havanna, was carried into New-
Providence j part of her cargo condemned,
and will fail in three days from this date on
her intended voyage.
Mat. Berryman
New-Providence, Oft. 20.
VIENNA, Aug. 30,
The lail difpa"tches receivsd from the
marquis de Gallo, were dated from Udina,
the 20th of August. They bring advice
that the marquis had font a Courier to Gen
eral Buonaparte, to inform him of his arri
val at Udiria ; and the general must by this
time met him there. Our court, as
may be expe£led, continues its preparations
for war, with the utmost a&ivity ; we doubt
not, however, that a definitive peace will
very (hortly be signed at Udina. It is hop
ed, that such modifications will be adopted,
with refpeft to Mantua, as (hall be fatisfac
tory to both parties. Should Austria pos
sess the country on the Banks of the river
Adige, the money offered by the Cisalpine
republic will enable, the Emperor to build
strong fortreffes along that river; and (hould
Mantua be ceded to France, orthe Cisalpine
republic, it will, no doubt, fee on such con
ditions las (hall be perfeftly confident with
the interests of Austria und its new Frontiers.
The 4ifpute, however, will now be very
fliortlydttermined ; and withinafewmonths
time, notice will be given to the army "of
the Hungarian levy, whether farther em
ployment will be found for it, or whether it
tnay return home.
As the German troops in Italy have fuf
fered severely by the heat of the country,
and the diseases occafionedby if, they are to
be recalld, and Croats who are more used
to the Climate, lent in their (lead.
MILANv Aug. 21.
General Buonaparte has at length set out
in, the nig;ht of the 22d for Udina, by the
way of Palrna Nuova. He will Hkewife
take in his way and infpe& thp frontiers,
and the Barromean islands, in the lake of
Milan, <?r Lago Maggiore. " Heis gone,"
fays one of the Gazettes published here,
« bearing the olive branch in one hand and
the fwor din the other. No one now enter
tains a dqubt but that cither a definitive
peace will be very lhortly frgned at Udina,
•r hostilities foan recommence, The pre
pnvations for war continue t6 be carried on
both by Buonaparte and the CiGilpine re
public, with rhe ulmod vigour. French
and Cisalpine troops, with field artillery
and ammunition are daily marching to Pal
ma Nuova, Trevigo, and Verona; while
artillery and military|dares are continually
on their way to Mantua from Genoa, Nice
and other places on that fide. It is like
wise expe'&ed should hostilities again take
place that the French will be joined by 20,
000 Piedmontefe troops.
LONDON, Sept. 14,
A letter from an officer on board admiral
Duncan's fleet, dated the 27th ult. fays,
" The transports belonging to the Dutch
armament in the Texel, all went up, (we
suppose to Amsterdam). lad week ; for on
the morning of the we could not fee
the hulls of the men of war, thirty three
in number, from our quarter deck, at which
time.there was not a merchant (hip or trans
port in the Texel, but a fquadrdn of four
frigates and three biigs were in the outer
road, attempting to make what we eall a
dart. On our approach they all turned in
again. We are now ftatiened off the Viie,
a few leagues north east of tUt Texel, from
which we conclude that the admiral fufpefts
the Dutch fleet, on the event of getting
out, mean to deer for the Elbe. The mo
ment the wind veers to the "eastward, we
push for thft Texel, and anchor before it ;
when the wind frefhens from the wedward,
we weigh and stand off eight or ten leagues,
always leaving light cruisers in view, who
are to return, and report to the admiral at
dated periods, or wlieneveY they discover
any movements amongst the enemy.
Nort* Sea fleet.—«Tbe following was the
order of the line of battlt of the fleet under
the command of Admiral Duncan, at an
chor off the Texel on the 27th ult.
1 Ganges 74 Capt. R. M'Dowal.
2 Agamemnon 64 R.D. Fancourt.
3 Warrior 74 H. Savage.
4 Lion 64 M. Dixon.
7 Vece adm. Ocflow.
J Capt. O'Brien.
64 —J. Inglis.
74 W. Effigton.
64 R. R. Burgei.
80 R. Home.
7 Adm. Duncan,
j Capt. Fairfax.
H. Trollope.
5 Monarch
6 Belliqueux
7 Triumph
8 Ardent
9 Ciefar
io Venerable
11 Ruflel
12 Direftor
13 Glatton
i4Naffau
ifi Lancaster 64
16 Inflexible 64
17 Veteran 64
18 Adamant 50
19 Monmouth 64!
20 Agincourt 64 J
Naiad 38-
Swan /loop 1
Tifiphone fire >
(hip I
Brigicutt. &c.-*
Champion 24")
Aftrca 32 j
64
5+
64
September 18
From the London Gazette, Sept. 16, '97.
Admiralty-Office, Sept. 16.
Extraft of a letter from the right hon. lord
Bridport, K. B. commander in chief of
the channel fleet, to Evan Nepean, esq.
secretary of the admiralty, dated on board
his majesty's ship Royal Gedrge, at Tor
bay, the 13th Sept. 1797.
Sir,
Herewith you will receive copies of let
ters, with the papers therein referred to,
from Commodore fir John Borlafe Warren,
which I transmitted for their lordships in
formation. I am, &c.
La Pomone, at Sea, August 12, 1797
My Lord,
I beg leave to inform your Lor3(hip, that
on the morning of the nth instant, a con
voy of the enemy, with a ship Corvette, a
brig and fehooner gun boats, two armed
luggers, several ChasTe Marces and brigs,
were discovered Sanding to sea, out of the
Pertuis de Breton, from Rochfort: I at
tempted to cut them off or destroy them
with La Pomone and Jason, who attacked
a fort, in order to cover the Sylph, who
wa3 anchored near the two corvettes, having
left the Triton in ehace to windward ; the
enemy, perceiving our intention, anchored
at the entrance of the river of Sable d'O
lonne, close under the fort, the ship cor
vette and gun boat with springs upon their
cables.
At eleven, being near enough, the firing
commenced and continued for an hour,when
the gun-boat shipped her cables to run on
shore, but funk before she got into the river,
near the small vessels, and the corvette re
mained faft agronnd, but deserted by her
people and much damaged. As I did not
think it possible to set her on fire with the
boats of the squadron, there being little
wind, and the tide of flood setting us upon
the coast, we hauled our wind to the south
ward.
I have the fatisfaction of acquainting your
lordship, that it has ocafioned a delay for
some time of the enemy's supplies arriving
at Brest, as one of the vessels is destroyed,
and it is doubtful if the othei can be repair
ed so as to be of any use in future.
The (hips of the fquadt;on have sustained
ver/ trifling damages. A return of the kil
led aRd wouiided in each (hip is inclosed.
I have only to lament, that a more favor
able moment did not present itfelf to afford
the officers and mep an opportunity of dis
tinguishing thejnfelves: but the enemy must
have fuffered considerably on beard the ves
sels and in the fort, from the number of (hot
that struck them.
Some hot (hot were fired from a battery
of five guns, which set - fire to the Sylph,
but any ill effedls were prevented by the ex
erticms of •fficers and men of that vessel,
W. Bligh.
C. Cole.
W. Hargood.
J. Wells.
S. Ferris.
—— Gregory.
W. Hotham.
Joined the fleet on the
above day.
Stationed to the wind-
ward.
Rep«ater«.
BRIDPORT.
who cut them out, and behaved otherwise '
with much fpivit and /eah
I have the honour to remain,
My Lord, . .
mod obedient humble ferv
JOHN WARREN.
P. S. Since I began this letter, not tvkvimr a
opportunity of fencing; it to your lordfliip, I havt
received information from three vefifel- who had
left Sable d'Olonne to th? above affuir,
and the following is the relVlt of these reports r
1 I*he (hip Corv tte is in the hr.rbor, but so
)
" J h.' ;sn brat remains funk and deflroyed.
" '1 he enemy l»ll several killed and wounded is
the two vcTTsls
In the fort five folders were killed and two
guns difniounted, and forae wounded ; two or
thr. e hbufes much fhartrr.-M."
We were off Sables d Oloane on the 16th, and
saw the (hip in the harbor.
An ace urn of the killed a*'i wourtded on hoard
* the fhip»of hH maj«fly'» fqu'idrcn under the or- .
ders of commodore fir John Boriaf* Warren,
K. U. on the n of Aug. .'707. 'j
- •
rtrie wounded. Jalon, none killed or wounded. 1
-Sylph, I petty officer, 1 seaman killed, 4 seamen i
wounded.
(Signed) JOHN WARREN.
Right hon. {j-rd Bridport, K. B.
&c. ,Scc. &,£■
Extrad o r another letter from commodore fir John
B. Warren, K. B. t«> the hon lord Bri4-
port, dated on board the Pomone at sea, the
of .Auytift, 1797.
I beg leave to inform your lorcKhip, that on the
?.?d inft. I chacedand drove upon the coast of Isle
Rica, L'Ejalite armed Chaffe Maree, of 6 four
pounders and S swivels, and which we afterwards
got off.
La Pomone, at Sea, Sept. 6, 'ay.
My I.ord, * y/
I beg leave to inform your Lordship, that T
continued fleering for the Mouth of the Garon
ne, and on the i;th nit. being to the southward
of the river, a number of vefTefs were seen io
the foiith river quarter, I made the fighal for a
, general vh»ce, and-continued until night,when,
irora the 1 riton being far advanced ahead, and
the J.ifrin to windward, the ships kept the ene
my in fijiljt after the approach of night. Ow
ipg to the exertions of Captains Gore and Stir
ling, five of them were captured*
At two A. M. being near tlie above, i cutter
wi» leeti at anchor, that liaJ accompanied tlie
convoy, and one of the boat* 6f tliis fhij t was
sent to her j but being ordered to keep off, and
feeing (he was a veflel of force, returned, I flood
in after her, and upon our firing « fewlhot,one
of which cut away her maft,fhe(lipther cable &
run amon" the breakers upon the ioaft of Arcaf
fon, and mto a most tremendous furf that broke
on board her, and must have stove her to pie
ces. She at last drove through, and as the tide
lelt her (he fell over; the remainder of her men
about 90 in number, got sn.fhore: She was cal
led Le Petit Diable, a very fine veflel, pierced
for 18 or ao guns, and 100 men complement.
The prizes were ?aden with ship timber, rosin
and tar, and were intended to fit out privateers
from the enemy's principal ports upon the
Coast.
I have the honour to b», fcc.
(Signed) JOHN WARREN.
Right hon. lord Bridport, K. B.
&c. &c. &c.
NORFOLK, November 7.
Capture of thejhip President of Baltimore.
Yeflerday arrived in Hampton Roads the
brig Hope, capt. Rindge from St. Bartho
lomews, bound to Portland. On Monday
last, in lat. 34, 30, long, 70, fell in with
the French privateer brig Triumphant, of
eight 6's and two 18 pounders, and 130
men ; the privateer forcibly put on board
him 13 persona (being the pafTengers of the
(hip Prefideat, apd the crew of the BrrtHh
brig Mary, from Jamaica to London) with
out allowing him any provisions to support
them.
From the passengers of the (hip President
we learn, that they failed from Liverpool,
for Baltimore, on the 28th August, in com
pany with the (hips Industry, Vickery, and
Virginia, Davis, for Norfolk ; that ofFthe
coast of Ireland they fprutig a leak and put
:nto Londonderry to refit, from whence thiy
failed the 4th September, that on the morn
ing of their departure one of the passengers
read in the London Evening Courier of the
29th August, the accounts of Peace bet
ween England and France, which are not
official or full particulars, but the remarks
of the Edito *8 of four Paris papers ; that
on Saturday the 29th September, in lat.
35' l° n g- 71 > they fell in with the above
privateer, who captured them, and after
taking out the passengers and some of the
4rew ordered her for Porto Rico. The pas
sengers, were plundered of their money and
various articles ; the prize mailer put on
board the President informed that they had
some days before spoke a vessel from Bour
deaux that left there the ijth September,
who said, that there were no accounts of
peace between England and France received
at Bourdeaux when they left it.
FOR SALE,
BV TBI subscribers, No. ii, Penrf-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conjijling of
various qualities & prices
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs 6uzz y do.
Humhuma Charcouna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Caliches NJulmula
Majnoodyi Checks
Maharagonges Patwa Hhkfj.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Siflerfojr
Choppa Romals
S r oty do.
•Pcrliansof various colours
Gurrahs
Piniafcoes
Salgatehys
Giliic RomaN
Mock Pulicats
2cx> tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed.to ftle st'
that cbrtmodious frdre the north Welt corner of
Marker an«i Fourth nov. ro, |
Thfe Oliiee of x Secretary of Stat£
CF THE UNITED STATES, :
1$ removed to No. 13, South Fifth street, riear
Chefnut street. Nov. TO.
lhe Medical Le&ures
In the Univerlity of Pennsylvania, are post
poned until the last Monday in November
next.
Oftcbor 14.
P H4f,A BE L PHI J,
' MONDAY TVRNING, NOVEMBER 13
_ Nine membeis.of the Senate, and thirty
nine of tie Houfeof Representatives afTern
bled in their refpe&ive Chambers this day.
There not being a quorum of either House,
they adjourned till to-morrow.
Extrad of a letter from-the Isle of Wight,
21fl September, I 797,
RecrivecJ by tlie ship Argus, arrived ;it
-
New-York on Saturday last.)
" All chaqceof peace is for the present
entirely removed, Lord Malmfbury having
arrived in Lo»don, yeSerday forenoon. He
was ordered to quit France in 48 hours, as
he had not authority immediately to accede
to their proposals for peace. The war rauft
continue another campaign—monev will of
course be more scarce than ever, and the
public funds deprefltd—That had its effeft
yefterdiy—3 per cts. were under per
cent."
A gentleman who came paflenger in the
Neptune from St. Übes, informs, that it
was understood at the time the (hip failed,
Oftober 3, that lord Malmfbury had not
ltft Lisle.
We are informed that the as! laying duties
onfiamped vellum, parchment andpa/,er, will
not go into operation on the last day of De
cember next, as the necessary arrangements
preparatory thereto, will not then be cum
pleated.
MR. ?EN Vo,
IF the afiertion that the frig's to royalty
'n France, nave occafiored the late revolu
tion in favor of the triumvirate, be true,
there can be little doubt of their having a£fc
ed by a finefle. Perhaps the surest game of
the royalists was to persuade the executive,
by a breach of the constitution, to remove as"
many as possible ps the most powerful repub
licaas, in point of talents, from their feats
in the legislature; for while fucb men as
Pichegru, Barthelemy, Carnot, Boiffy D'-
Anglas, &c. &c. enjoyed the public confi
dence, the republican constitution of the 3d
year was fafe. Btjt .whether the triumvirate
have, like Othello, been the dupes of fc
cret enemies in their late liberticide measures,
or not, time only can fliew. Nor is it im
portant which, if the event must be the fame
in either cafe. .The moment the people and
the army awake from their transient dream,
it is most likely they will, one and all, sigh
for a permanent government, which (hall rid
them of a faftion of demagogues who sport
with the public freedom and happiness.'
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHA.
ARRIVED
Ship Woodrop Sirni, Hodgfos,
Prosperity, Craip,
Amiable, Tillinghaft,
Peggy, Elliot,
William, Goe,
Brig Packtt, Strong,
fkhr. LyHia and Polfr, Jenkins,
Poll, Carhart,
Fanny Bridger, Dynn,
Lucy, Howi 8,
Sloep Per'e<3, Denykf,
Eliza, Barr.et,
Eaurai* Barker,
(irferiwich, Ufter,
> Sally & Jan-, Weft,
Nancy, Clarlc,
, Charlotte, Price,
CLEARED,
Rarqvie Oust f Adclphe, Rampe, Hamburgh
Krisr 'l'm • Sifters, Arnold, St. Croix
The Woodrop, Sims, brings Parie papers
to September 21. The negociations at
Lifhr were still going pn—Carnot had been
arretted.
Ship G*ningham packet, Kelly, failed
for this port the day before captain Hodg
fon—Left no vefTels belonging here.
Brigs Liberty, Lillibridge, and Friend
fliip, Gallagher, are at the fort—the former
from the Havanna, the latter from Jamaica.
Sib. Minerva, Moody, was to fail in 9
days for this port. Ship Henrietta, Weeks,
of this port, for St. Thomas, and feh. Ex
pedition, Ornes, of N. York, Cuiracoa,
were at Laguira, when fahr. Poll failed.
Barque Mars, Fowler, failed 5 days be
fore the Neptune from St. Übes for this
port.
At Liverpool for this port September
31 (hip Diana, Pile, to fail in 2 weeks.
Brig Diapiond, Eaftburn
Diana, Kirkbride.
The ship Thomas Chalkley, Clark, failed
| from Surinam for this port the 14th Septem
ber, Oil the 19th was taken by a British
privateer and condu&ed to Barbadoes ; pre
vious however to entering the harbor, the
captain of the privateer set on shore to en
quire if the vefTel could be condemned there ;
Capt. Clark at the fame time wrote on shore
to his own friends, who represented the
cafe to the governor, and were given to bring
both vessels too. After a number of (hot
being fired, the ship come too 'under the
proteaion of the fort, and the privateer flood
out to sea, but returned in the night,
the ship from her moorings, and carried
Jier to Martinico. The governor of Barba
does immediately Torwarded an account of
the tianfa&ion to tke owner of the privateer
at Martinico, who direded the Thomas.
Cbaikley to be released, and obliged the
captain of theprivateer to make good the
loss fuflained in of his proceed
ings. Capt. Clark writes that he expected
to fail with a convoy about tfie 29th ult.
Captain Carhart left at LeGuire the 18th
ulr. the brig Pennsylvania, Tatem, of this
port, to fail next day.
1 he South Carolina, for Charleston, the
Swift Packet for Savannah, and several o
tfcers, about 12 or 14 fail went to sea cn
Wednesday last.
3JW4W.
%f)t ette»
C ON G R ESS.
merlin.
Havre
Liverpool 74
Havre 160
Liverpool io
St. Übes 71
Cnarlefton 7
Bolton t/\
Lsg'iira 25
Kew-Vork 4
Boflon iz
<i". 21
Nan'ncket 10
do. io
Rhode Ifl.ind 21
Chark'fton 9
Norfolk 5
New-London 4
Strcral vtfTels arc below, amongst the
number the Prosperity, Craig, from°Liver
; pool (long parage} Neptune,' Jcfiri'a, St
| UHes Tjf-davs, a brig from Jamaica, 3 othe
firps, fevcral bnVr-, &e. &c. names unkuowi
SHIP ASIA,
No/Jhu, (,V. P.J Oclo'
I . On Tvefday lajl his wot/Up the judge of tlx
, couit of lfce admira ty pronouneed his decree. in
'h- ca/t 'f the Jr, eric an Eafl la fla, flip . 'jla,
recaptured from the French I; the Render
private ve/fel of war, :f thi par ", captain Ed
ward, shearman who libelled the prize as
French property.
His ivorjbip opfer-oed, that he considered tht
orriir the 'frtflch direSory to litlr cruizer/
as highly' arbitrary, contrary to the law of na
tions and all good jaiif}, and captures made un
der it, little better than piracies ; that in the
present cafe, there had not been thatfirm poffef
lion neccffary to divefl the right of the original
Dinners ; and. therefore be adjudged Jhip and
cargo to le rejlored as neutral property, upon
payment of onejixth part of the value thereof
This he said, is the salvage to "which the recap
tor would be entitled if the property had been
Britijh ; and in his opinion, the lea/I that
ought to be paid by neutrals.
It appcrars that his war/hip the Judge a
dopted the provifttms of theprizl ad, at the ruh
of his decision.
Theprodor for the captors protefied againjl
the sentence, and gave notice of intention to ap
peal therefrom.
Neiv Yorl, Nov. IX.
4 ARRIVED DATS
Ship Argus, Black, London 63,
x>iig Prudence, Dunn, Savannah gy
Baltimore, Nov. 9.
Arrived last evening, snow Lighthorfe,
captain Gibfon, 54 days from Bristol.
August 3 1, failed from the island of Sun
dy, in the Bristol channel, in company
with the Chesapeake, captain Adamfon,
bound for New-York.
Oilober 7, lat. 3s, 27, N. long. 47, Vs.
Tpoke the (hip Amiable, captain
haft, from Havre, bound to Philadelphia,
out 9 Week*, veiy (hort of pnmfic, nS) g ave
them some fupplits, and tod> 4
Privoft, Cuttiug and Allen, New-York,
paflengers, out of the above
Oftober 13, lat. 39, ft. 1 0B „ 6o> W
spoke a Swediff brig 'from Carthagem,
bound to New-Vort, Cut 59 days, all well.
O&obcr*6, lpok-i the (hip George, of
New-York, capta-n Whipple, three days
from Norfolk, bound to Liverpool, all
well.
November i, spoke the brig Leopard,
captain Potnam, lat. 36, 15, N. long. 71,
io,- W/, f r om the Isle of France, bound to
Saleir,, out 93 days, all well—supplied ua
wita a barrel of broad.
Sales of Lumber, &C.
WILL BE SOLD,
Oh H EDNRSBAY, the 22J injl. prtcifely at } o\l&
in the morning t
At C. Emlkn's Lumber Yard,
111 the Norther* Liberties, near the Hay Scales,
All the Personal Property there
remaining belongingtothe ellate of OilebEmlcn,
deceased, confiiting of the fallowing valu..kc
articles, viz.
Several hundred of Wkite Pine, Hemlock
and Oak Lagi, to be fold in lots of about thro*
thousand scot each.
\ r " a » a
«j fed, mod of which are of the belt (luff for
the use and building of (hip*
„ a, and 2 i-« inch White Pine Pl»uk» for
S quarter Decks
3 1 i-a to 4 inch Planks
> Hemlock Scantling afiorted
g Six pieses Hemlock jo feet in lehg h, and a
a pieces 17 feet
~ White Pine Scantling, Maple Scantling
3 Maple Boards, "Quarter Rails
g. Spanning Weel Stuff, Whale Pieces 40 £>ej
rj long
q A Valuable assortment of White Oak Flifch
-< Stuff f
feparati parcelsDf old & c .
DAVI
Two large copper Stills, with
Worms, Heads, &c.
A good sorrel Horse—an old Chaise and Stllkey
A large Spinning Wheel and Reel
A number of still honfe Jarrs, two log Trucks a
cutting Box and Knife, a large Feed Box] a
frnall Anchor, a Scale with Benm, and a numbef
of fifb. Weights, a good Mill Saw, a writing
Defe with sundry articles in Compting-houfc*
two pair as good Pillols, a parcel of old Iron*
Cables Ropes, &c. LHnmfif
The wheel works of a Horse
Saw Mill, complete and in good order.
Such persons as may be desirous of purchasing
any part thereof, are at liberty to view them on
the prcmifes, where a man will constantly atteoi
every day previous to the sale. > Carpenters, Lum
ber Merchants, Builders, &c, may have a favora
ble opportunity of pui-chanr"* Lumber, &c. to
more advantage at this sale than ellewhere, which
no doubt will command their attention.
Put'chafers to a larger am»unt than one hundred
dollars ftiay be accommodated with futy days cre
dit on approved indorsed notes.
Sold by Order of
TAMES VAUX, an J
CHARLES PLEASANTS,
Attorneys infaH to Mart SxcctUix.
Footman fcf Co. Autfrs.
novtmier 13. djt
, Notice to Creditors.
WHEREAS Jofiah W. Gibbs and William
Gildid on the 9th day of June laft,af
fign tothe iubftribers, all their property for th»
benefit of their creditors, this is to give notice
to all the creditors of the above firm, tha' all
their books, as well as the ftateiaent of their
concerns, are lodged with John D. Blanchard,
No- 6, South Third Street, for their infpt&ion,
and alio the discharge which is to be signed by
ail thrl'e creditors who wilh to receive the bene
fit pf'J'aid alignment.
All per fans indebted to the said firm, are here
by notified to pay'their i*efpe<flive debts to th*
laid John D. Blanchard, who is fully authorized
to receive and fettle all their accounts.
JQHN D. BLANCHARIX
JAMES VANUXEM.
A. BUTLER.
Nov. 13
TO BE LET,
A spacious dry floored Cellar,
at the N. E. corner of 4th and Arch-ftreeu.
* Nov. s i 3. ,j 3t
ALSO,
mwf3t.FOR SALE, j
A. IRjssanl of live excellentHorfes, j
with a Wigljott and Gears. TlieHorfes are all
young, '! oiig, true to the draught, and capable
of haul.ng as great a weight as moil in the coun
i -y. " he' \\ and are strong, and
iorder. Applvto
Weft Town, Cheller comity, or lQ
%
Thomas ~Fi/her f
Ntfi 141, S. Second Street, £hiU 'elpliia.
t ! SIIO. 2 f
In the
And fpe?dily will be publil'ned by William
Young, No. 51, Second, the oorrter of
Chefnut Street, i
A VIEW
Of the Science of Lipe j
On the principles established in ths elements
bf Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M. tt
With .in attempt to correft some important erl
- oftiiat work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly !;Ufled from the records of tfieir pradlice,at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br ]Vmi am Yates & Chas. Maclsan,
To whit* is subjoined, a Treatise oil the a&iori
oi Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
t' fertile c s.-» of dil'eafes of indireil debility
. > mi a difTertsuon on the foufces of Epidcmicand
i*' -'ti'e;;dife. les.; in whicliisatteaiptedtoprove
by a indaAifln of fafls, that they lie
v r "■ 11 1 -f pm r.intajjion, hut are always prorfu
by tertiin states, or certain viriirituiles of
rtif atmufphere, hy Charles Maclsan, of
Cj'cirta
Oil. jt.
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
.In Car-vci—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mil is.
SEYMOUR'. Patent Rollers.
TRlilli J'uperiority confijls in being freefram
bc!:-s and honey-combed places, <which are com
mo"h found in rollers cafl in sand, or clay
yr.'iuijs. Th/fe patent rollers art cafl in iron
pioulds, prtfwsujly heated, and mill be found to
he more dense. solid and durable than any rallers
ufeJ. Another important advantage
Hjc-y baiv over ethers, ii, that the necks require
no tu/\y-igt but are immedaitely Jit for use, *nd
jtrom t£ij r accuracy, run <witb lefi fr't&ion, and
require less water to make them perform their
r-jork. 7 ' may be had by application to the
Patentee in Ply. 'toutb, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or of MeJji 3 -Thatcher and Haynvard
Hofton, Aug. -jv'■ Sept. 19.——§(>t.
This l)a?> is Published,
BY Meff.'Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other iio.vfilers,
Price ©ne Dollar and lyenty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on IVui? paper, and Hot-
prejfed,
By John 'i'hoinpfofi,
A COMPARATIVE VIE'.VOF
The Conftitutioijs
Of the fcvrral States with each other, anv.' with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of fcieh Cor.ftitution, ai,'d
elaffing together ir.oft impsrtant proviSons,
under the fevefral heads of adniiniftratiofi ; with
an d O bfev vat ions.
WILLIAM- SMITH,
Of Suatb-Carolina,
L L. D. md member of the Congrek of the
United.Statea.
Dedicated to th» People of ,the United states.
N. B. A few Copies printed on *n inferior p*-
*»r, at 3-4thiof a dollar,
February 6
City Commissioners' Office,
June ii, 1797.
IN ptirfuance 0 f an ftrdinance from the feletfl
and common eouncils, palled the Z2d day of
May lafl, appointing the city cCTiimiffioners,
ind prescribing their duties, fciSlion 9th,
NOI'ICii IS HEREBY GIVSN,
Tfrat the city i* divided into live dittrifb,'
each to be under the luperintendance of one of
the city commifiioners, whoistobe individually
i-elponfibfe for th« cleanliness cf the fame, and
are as follow-
\Driftrifl No. I. From the fo'jth fidt of Ce
4'ir-ftreet, to the north fide »fSprucc-ttreet,tm
rthe superintendence of Nathan Boys.
*. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
thefl'orth ftde of Walnut-ftrfrt.undfr thefuptr
inteT-dence of Hugh Kobtrts.
3. From the nouh fide of Walnut to the south
fide ui ffigh-llrcet, under the fuperintend*nceet
Joseph .Claypoole.
4. Frl'in the north fide or High-street, to the
north fid', of MulbVry street, under th« fuper
hitendeniv ef Wllliarm Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberrv-ftrtet to
the north livle of Vlne-ftreet, under the iyptr
kifendencc &f Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof Hrgh-ftreet to be in cojMaon.
£3* A dated meeting of the city comm/fßon
«rs is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftrset, e*ery Tuesday evening at 5 o'cleck.
July 14
Stands for Draymen, tsY.
In purfuanee of an Ordinance from tbeSeleft and
Common Councils,bearing daft tbend daj of
April, 1797. providing for theappointment of
City Gomm\[fiontrs, fjc. Heel, the \stb.
rpHE following plates are fixed upon by the
A said City Commiffiooers for Standt for
Draymen and their Korfe«.
In Vine-flreet, eaftwsrd of Front-ftreat, on
both fides. . ■
Saffafras, High.Chefnut and \Valnut-fttreet.«,
ealtward of Front-ftrett, on the no. th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street. '
♦Front-ftreat, east fide from Vine-Street to
Elrrith's alley. -
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-flreet, weft fide from the north end ef
gtomper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Cedar-Hr.t, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-ftrett.
Spruce, Pine and South ftreeti, eafWf Frost
street, south fide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-ftrcet and the
iag stone crossings, east fide, opposite George.
between SafTifras and Vine
streets, welt flde.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul-
Saffafras-ftreet, from Third to Foarth-flreet,
#a No'dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
FOP HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
" Fifih-ftreet, between Cbeinut and Walnut
greets, weft.
Uranch-ftr«et', north fide, b:tw»en Th.rd and
■July 14
No. 16, South Second, and No. jo, Market street,
J YAVE ju(t received by the lite arrivals Irom
1 X London and Dublin, their fprir.g importa
tion, eorTiflingof a variety of thelatsft and ntoft
approved I.aw Books, whicli, added to those alrea
dy o>i hand, forms the moll extensive colleiJlion ev
er offered for file in this country. Tliey theitfore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of t(ieir
conne&irnsin DuMin, they are enacted to felllrilh
edition* (as they have hitherto done) at the very
I,oweft prices. The follovriag are among the latest
publications.
eod^w
'refs^
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, a wis.
Peaks'B Cases at Nili Prius ; Ridgeway'fc Reports
iu the tjme of Lord Hardwickc»; Floyer's Procters
Pra6lice in the EcclesiasticaL Courts ; Barton's
Trcatifa on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Actions, i
part 9 complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modem Reports, u vols. London cdi-
tion
H. and P. Ricfc «tpe& ta receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
I?urnford,and East's Reports, the 2d part of Gil-
Wt's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
Jane 26.
The History of Perinfylvania,
BY ROBERT PROCJD,
Iy now in the prcfs, and will be pnblilhetl,
wkl' -i.ll convenient expedition, bv ZtCHA-
RtAH Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fuifuiptions will contir.nt
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library
according to the printed propofali, until tli
Work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18.
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISH
And for sale by 7HQMjiS DOBSON, at th«
Stone House, No. 41, south Second flreet,
Jilt
Confiding of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
the inftruilion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes handsomely priatedand bo»od
up i« two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The varied and excellence of these piece* are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally esteemed one of the moll valuabU pub
lications that can be put into tha hands of young
pcrfons.
By THOMAS DOSSON, at the Stone Houf»,
Between several Young Ladiet,on improving and mp
terefting fubjeA.i.
Trsnflated from tbe Dutch of Madam* de Gamin
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ef extraordinary diftrefi, or of defperat* »r
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
v'hich it would be for the honor of young ladle* to
be ignorant of, this little book comas forward to fo
liciv notice, where in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real lift, the proper, Uecaufc
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Fermi!)
character is exhibited in an interclfing point of view,
and presents examples of real and attain«ble excel
lence.
Th: publisher wasfomuch pleafedwith the peru
sal, that he was pcrfuaded he (hould do a plcafing
ferviec to ths community by fending it >11:0 circu
lation. August 24 —u*4w
mwf
A£l laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A FEWcnj-i' a of the above aft may be had ai
he Office of the Oazetto of the United States, No.
119, Cheftiut.lkeet. • July ip.
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN l* Company,
is diffo'.ted by mutual consent. All perfong
having any demands agsinft tke said House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
these indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will infuturisbe
carried on,at hisStdre, No. 39, South Front-street.
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed thair Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet,
August i
Lancafier, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
STAGES.
THE public are requcfted to take notice, that
the partncrlhip which has fsr fomefcim* sub
sisted between Mathiu Slough of Lancaster, and
William Seer, it now difTolved: but, not as M.
Slough infinuatcsto the public without jnft cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this bulinefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perafal of M. Slough's letter, and thai can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeflly jnftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pfcafed to confer on the firft effort in
this business, VFilliam Geer, in conjunifiion with
MelTrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatchthat a seal to obligethe'puh
lic can poflibly exert.
.The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horfoe, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafc and commodious, inform
thofn wno wilh Co patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the fign'ofths White Horfc,
Market Street,' Philadelphia, on every Mcnd»y
and Friday, to proteed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippcpfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftabliihcd.
For the farther accommodation ol the pubiic,
a Stage will start every Wedriefday Xrom the houfc
of' Samuel .Elder, m Harrifliurg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from theuee and arrive at Harrifburg
evfiy Saturday, so that passengers deftfned for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proce«d on Mon
days.
eoim
N. B. This Line of images Harts from the
house of Wiliiam Ferroc,. in Lan«3er, on every
Tucfday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the weftwardr and Irom thi houfc of
nr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnfturg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routin« daily at in its tour ftOM Philadel
phia. mwf
mw&fira
Law books,
Ijflteft London and Dublin Editions
H. & P. RIG El Booksellers,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED,
" Delightful tafi: to rear the tender thought,
To teack the young idea how t» (hoot,
Topuur tk« frelh inftrudlioii o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit.aud to ix
The gsncrous purpose in the glowing brcaft."
/Thomson;
Augufl 24.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
with alterations and improvements,
Printed tn jine paper, and neatly found,
Price 9ne dollar.
The Partnerlhip,
Aug<tft 7
Shippgnjburg and Sunbiiry
.LI A M GEER.
LancaflSr, Jan. 27, 1797-
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Vifih street, coiner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red Uourdeaux Wihe In cases and
boxes, fix years old
White Grave* Wine in caikt
rioklertbiirgs
Ruflia Sail Cl.tin
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Heflians ' 1
Dialer and Table Cloth
' rapty hags
Common German Cloth
An afTortmcntof black coloured Ribbons
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Rufiia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Window Glass Aug 19 —law
Ext&llent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto -ditt;> Claret in cases
Just received, and for Saje by
RundU & Leech.
Aug. 2i. aawtf
Will be Landed,
From onboard the flitp Adlive, Capt.Blair,from
Hamburgh,
ao bales 1 white Rufiia clean Hemp
a calks Clover Seed
For Sale by,
Thornets Herman I suffer.
North llfth street, No. 34.
Tune 26.
TO BE SOLD,
And 'tmmediate poffejjion given,
A Convenient well tinithed Brick 'I enement,
with a cook house and other out houses, fitu
atcd 111 a ple&fant yart of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of gfound
has forty feet front *ll West-street, and extends
through the tquare to Padure-ftreet, 011 which is
ereiled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
Imported in the Jhip Pi'ou,
A*d for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
HyfanSkin
Young Hyson C ■
Imper.al J
A.q'jjl fa- tots
Fcr sale or to be let on ground
rent,
Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal
nut and tifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
prel'ent two small two story brick houses, ami a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
between Mulberry and SaiTafras
ftre£fs, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and aie a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or etbera who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reafonabje torms
for cash. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
TOBES O L D,
And poffejjion given immediately,
A LARGE cwo story brick Houfc,handfl)me!y
fituatcdin Princeton. Thareare four rooms
and a large *ntry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, andapiazzaof 57 feet, Thcie i« a pump
in (lie, yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which arc a carriage houfc and two .
(tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two (tables for 17 horses. The heat
tliinefs and pleasantness ot its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
ntar the town, render it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The conimodioufoefs of
the haufe, its central position, and the largeurfs of
whe (tables, make it every way fuitablefor a tavern, for
which it kas always been confident as a capital
ftaad. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN..
Princeton, Ang. ij. »9 —dtwaawtf
City of Waftiington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of thi Federal City.
A magnilicsntdwelling-houfe ao,occdollars,
3c calh 30,000, ire 50,000
I ditto 15,1100 8t cifb 15,00s 40, ooq
I ditto j,£,0.00 fit cath 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 1 <3,000 ic cafl) 10,000 30,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca'.h 5,000 10,000
i ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10, dob
1 calk prize of ro,ooo
4 do. s,oqqeach,are_ • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
ao do. fto - - 10,000
00 do. jeoo - - ' 10,000
»oo do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. at - - io,aoo
l>ooo do. 10 - 40,000
15,00® do. 10 - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,161 Rlanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight .Dollars, 400,006
11. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn cicket, and the 30,000 th« last
but oni :
And approvednotes, feeuwiigpayment inekier
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received sot any number not lei's than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private btiiidings to be erected ill the City of
Wathington—.Two beautiful defies are already
leleiled for the entire tr.ont'. on two of the public
fqnarcs; from these drawings it ispropofed toeredt
twocentreand 'ouKorncrbKildings.as soon aspof
fible after this-loftary rtrlold', and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, ii
the manner defcribcd in the fchamc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu<slio» of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neceflary expenses of prim
ing, Sec. and the ftlrplus will be made a part ot
the fuV.d intended for the National Univedity, to
be creeled within the city of Waihingtoiu
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Diredl
oifi of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
mbre than half the amount of the lattery.
SAMUEL BLODQET.
lawtf
ED,
»wf4w
eod4W
w&f6t
Ticlcetsmay be had at the Bajik oi Colnm
h\i ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fetcr
Gflmar., Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
an*i of lUckord V.Mit, Cooper's Ferry.
This Day Published,
Aadto be fold by WILLIAM YOUNO, iora«r of
Second and Ghefnut streets,
Price 3of a fiotlar,
Observations on Certain Documents
Containc.d in No. V and VI of
" Ttfe History of tte United States for
the year 1796,"
. In whiefi the cm ai'.oe or speculation againd
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
StentTARV of t]lC 'I RFASURY, 16 FULLY
WRITTEN BY HIMS RI T,
Tilts publication presents a concise statement
«f the hafe means pradlifed by the Jacobins of the
Unired States to asperse the chara&er* of those
perfonswho ate confideredas hostile to their clifor
ganizing ichemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Ifamiltoi and M.efTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable.on the rub
ied ©f the docaments alorefaid, and a Sirica of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving be;'<*•*(J the pofiibility of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiraay on the part
bf the latter and his aflfociates to extort money.
JjjT A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholcfaie purchafrrs, for
casa. Orders to be addrefled to Mr Yovng.
4v<zu(l 2f.
DijlriS of Pennfylaania, to wit :
ft 5 1 R E 11 KBMiiMBERKD, that on the
(, .s■) tweßty sixth day of Jtrly, is the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dlf
triA,hath depofitedin this office the title ofabook,
the right whereof he claims as propriesor, ia the
words following, to wit
" Observations on certain docnments contained
" in No. V. and VI. of "The History o£ the Unit
" ed States for the year tf 96," in which th# charge
" of speculation, againfl Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Trcafury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf."
In conformity to she aft of thcCongrefs «f the
Ueited State*, entituled, " An aft for thtf encour
agement of learning, by fccuring th;, copies of
maps, charts aird books to thi authors aut? propri
etors of such copies, during'h» times therein men-
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
G!cr* of tht Dijlrici of Fenufylvania.
W4W
July 27
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a Targe
and elepant house at the Corner of Arch, and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rnoma
and one dining j-oom—the largefl is 31 feet by
26 —and two are so eonnefled by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
etles 5 in the garret, well ftttifhed for fervanu.
There are flables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. *9,
in North Seventh street, or at No. jiß, Arch
Street;
Aup.1 5
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFISE
No. 64 south Second-Srcet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. U, which
commenced drawing the 19th May, FOR.
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on a«-
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, oil the lall day at
drawings
Check Books kept for examination and render
ing, in the Canal, No. a, City of Wa4ington,No.
4, and Paterfon Lotteries.
A lfo, tickets for file in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Brjdgc lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the coijrfe of the summer.
The bulincfo of a Broker in atl l;inds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lxndt, &c- &e. triefatfted With the
utwoft. actentioa.
tu&f
Erfkine's View of the "War.
Jtw« *
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBF.LL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price jl Cents j
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with Francs.
By the Honorable Thomas Bkskinf.
May is
' STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Young, Booldellet, No. sa, South Se-
cond-ftreer,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acqvit
al of FraneisHopkinfen, Judge of the Court of
admiralty, and John Nicliolfon', Comptroller Scn
er*l—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Youmg has for sale, a general afTortraectof
Book?. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pock
ege, well aflorted.and entitled to the dra\vbscfc if
ax parted. July 7— *
Thal well known place, coiled Vandearift's
F F R * Y,
ON Nefhamiiiy cre«k, ig roile6 from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York past ro»d,
containing 74 acres and 94 pcrchos. Upon the
premises are a large two fiery stone Iwitife occu
pied asatvern, and a good one story Hone kit
chen, a Urge frame stable with a gned threlhing
floor, and lbme out huildings —also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a moil elegant fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view ps the NeQiam
iny to jtsjuntflion wiih theDelawase, and thence
across to the Jerky shore. If has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For tcim« apply to the StiWcritier,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
May 24.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDG.E with much pleif
ureand refpefl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four .years refidente is
Philadelphia; and afiures her"friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he has made a ftipenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufcful and pQ&e
educatien is particularly attended to BV Mrs.
Gsoombridge and masters excelling in their
refpeilive profeflion*.
Corner of Spruce Snd Eleventh Streets,
June sth, 1797- sim!tf
The (ituatien is perfefllr healtky ; and made
more agreeable by in exter.fivs garden and lot
oT ground adjoining the houle.
"Jicfl Publi/hed,
And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the othex pricipal BooV-fcllcr. in tHo
city,price one dollar, tvmty-five cents, in "boards,
New Views of tile Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN S.MJTIi B-UVTCN, ji. p.
June i®, "(ft
mwf
REFUTED!
No. 188.
IJWJW,
For Sale,
School Books and Stationary.
W. tO U NG,
No. Second-flreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now for sale', a very large alTort
ment of Eno'iijh, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfo> such elementary book#
on Science, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY POLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in onV
large vol. 8 vo price 5 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo. price 1 dol. 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts,
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's boards, Pasteboards,
sheathing aad Hotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the best quality, used in the counting koufe> or
public office.
g l ** 3 Catalogues of a mifeellaneous colledlwn of
BOOKS, with tlae price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. 24. —3aw6w
'Jujl Puhli/hed, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DAVIES,
At his Book-Store, No 62, Hiph-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
A NNUA LREGISTERfortke UNITED ST A TES
FOR THE YEAR 1708
Containing complete and correS lifts of the Execu-
t vc, i egiflativc and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, ncceiTary to be
known in every State of the Union.
Embelljbed with two bandfome Engravings,
One of which is depiftive of a melancholy fcen*
that occurred during the An-.ericut: war
oa. 18.
The Philadelphia > Atfion y arul 7 uckeriou
MAIL STAGE.
"I 'HK proprietors beg leave to inform the'public, that
*- they have ejlablijhed a Stage between Philadelphia,
Atfion, Batflo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nace, IVading River Jlitting mill % and the town of Tuck
er ton, in New Jrrfty, I. f . once a week, and are provi
ded with good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail,paffengen, and
foods. 'The Stave will Jlart every Thursday, at I©
o' clock, A. hi. from JMr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
lodge that night at Joel Bodine's, at L.ongucoming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. M. arrive at CM E
vans's, in keeper, in Tucker ton, difarjt from the city 54
miles 9 (from the Atlantis 6, and from the Eajl Crtuftng
Plains 7 miles) where are good accommodations for tra
vellers, and where are commodious and fafe pajfage boats
provided to convey poffergers to Capt. IVWiain JVar
tinghn s bouse, on Tvcktr's IJland, adjoimning the At
lantic, where are good acco.-nmoaations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the fportfnun who wijhes to regale himfelf
with fowling andfjbing, may at this pLice be highly gra-
there being atalmojl every season of the yeHr fowl
andfijk in abundance.——The Stage 011 its return,farts
from the a for efaid C, Evans's in Tucker ton, every Turf
day, at 6 0 clock, A. As. brenkfaffs at John Bodine's, at
Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Lonracanting,
and at 1 o'clock, P. M. on W *dn;fday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal dijlance will be less expenfite, or furnijb the tra
veller with a greater variety of amusement, as he will
not only have af> leaf ant fail to the all an tic from Tucker -
ton, but have the curiofty of feeing on ihe road thither a
number of capital furneues and forges, and one flitting
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, wB»
are owners, or faSlors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are fol'uited to encourage and support this fiage \by whet*
ihey can be so well accommodated) the continuance of wbicb
will much depsadon their aid. The rates of pajfengers
and baggage are as follows : For a pajfengcr from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tackcrton, including
14 lb- of baggagb, Two Dollars f for way pajfengcrr
pet'mile, Four Cents—1 50 lb. of baggage equal to a pus-
Piff age of letters, newspapers, \&c. will be
agreeably to law.
N. B. The mail croffesfrom the Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARBLE is" C,.
Tuckrrtam, Sept. 18.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE T«Tcrn r
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tutfdafy Thursday, and Satpr
fay* a * 3 o'clock, in the irorning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paflengcra find
a fa'fe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tncfdiy, Thursday and Satnrday, and the
Stageftarts from this ferry for Philadelphia, evcrjt
Men Jay, Wcdnefday and Friday; puts up at Snow
Hill ;hcfirft night, at Dover the td night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thedil'tance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles lei's than on any ltage route
between those places.
Too much cannot befaid in' favor of the road,
which is raoft excellent indeed. The proprietor!
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed t)»is route,
will fay that he ever traveled in a ftagefor the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Aueuft II
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
iheGity—
OF FJRIQUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 Ky 14,
By the finglc Box or'Ouanti'.y, may be had at the
(lore of the 2>ubfciiber&, corner of Aicb and Froßt
fttcct.
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
Lately Published,
In one voj'. 8 ve. (price one dollar iu boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of SccMidanct
ChefEut streets,
A Colle&ion of Papers on the of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the Unitsd
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH IVHBSTF.R, j im.
Containing letters from Do&ors Seaman, SRiit?%
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynold*, Mit elk
ei!,on contagion, &c. &c.
Sept. 15.
,THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREEK J.EA!",
HEREBY give notice, that thev hav« disposes
of the property assigned to them for the l'ecuring
the payment of the noteS acceptances, and en
dowments given by Edward Fox, fa r the life
oftheftid James Greenleaf; and the l.olders of
such notes, acceptances, and are>
hereby notifyed that the fubCrriberi. i,vi 11 iVIII e>
with them lor the amount of their '.refpedlive
elainis, b< th principal and interest, at
any time before the scth day of Odlci bcr next;
after which dav, the holders n< t app| ving, wilt
be excluded, agreeably to the term* of afiign-
ment
Applications to be made at fnuth-ei ft corner
of Dock and Second ftrects ( the D ock-ftreet
fide), betwef" the hours of eleven and one o*
«4ock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Prafl
7ho. I'/. Prancit,
John Miller, Jut/.
, John AJblcy,
Jacob Baki\
Philadelphia) Augirit 18, 1797, 4
Off. J. —*%a\utf
dim.eofc/.