ntten States, w Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NUMBER 1586.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS.
, C Forenoon—Edward Fojc, No. 56,
J fu ' u4 Front-ftrect,
J Aftetrw: t -Footman & Co. N«. 6j
C South Frnnt-ftreet.
f Forenoon—.John Connelly, Old City
r , ) Albion, No. 73 fputli Front-street.
,J -'y Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C. 183 High-street.
A ts^sssr bh K °- ?
Tt /v„ $ Forenoon—Edward Fox.
urj ay | Afternoon—John Connelly.
p.. Forenoon—William Shannon
n —John Cttnnelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Uenfon.
For Freight or Charter,
THZ GOOD BRIG
m S U K E Y,
Isaac Matter ;
NO\v lying at Clifford's wharl, and in
rto receive a cargo. Fyr terms nleafc to ap
ply the Captaiu en boa jl, or
John Siyrin,
No. Bt, Arch-ftreiJt.
WKO If AS FOR SALF.,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
600 wr. c.f F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bufheN of Timothy Seed
150 cafe of Claret, firil quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine,
pt 19.
HAVANNA SUGARS.
FOR HALF.,
1400 boxes and cafl<s prime white Hnvan-
na SUGARS,
On board the (hip Hamburgh Paiket, Silas
Swain, Master, mow lying at Marcus
For term?. apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt. Samukl Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut llreet, or to
Philip Nicklin, & Co.
_ Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
SALE or CHARTER.
She'is jio'tong regiUer, coppered to the. bends,
fails remarkabl\rf-iIL and be ready to re
ceive a 'cargo in a few days.
Snjl it
Antigua Rum,
JU3T arrived at Wilm.ngton, Delaware
State, 2nd (iow landing from on board the
Brp- & 'live. William William*, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for bv
Jehu Hotting/worth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept. ;i. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
t ' le GAYOSO, are
I'r allb fbr Sale or and
jt *T/ '■rffil now ready to receive a cargo
«it hda'il, at "Vilm'ngtiln Anp!y ss
For Savannah,
■ The faft failing fliip,
SWIFT PACKET,
fy'Patrick Gribbijj, Miller,
w ■ Now lyingnppolire ih: mouth
of Frankford Creek, has han'liome accommoda
tions for paflVngers, and will fail on or about
the ifi of Ofl'ber.
For freight or vm{T ge apply to the miftcr on
board, or of the fuh:cribers it Prankford, 511
miles from Philadelphia.
2'albro 7. Frazier.
Frankfnrrl, S<-pt. 18,
fr HAM hi' •<<,//,
>*»« ho "| "HE Copper Bottomed Ship
J FAVR ° 1T E ' J° HN
Thompson, Matter, now at
Bright'* wharf, and will be rea-'
-i. ! ;V;v>T to take in on Monday next,
"*"*■ part of her cargobt ing engaged
andreJHy to goon hoard. 1h; fliip ii lo well
known, that it is needltfs to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, pleafs to appW at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. ij, North Third street,
or to the Mailer on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On beard the laid Ship, Sweiiifh Iron, assorted
Hollow aml'Windovr Glass, Demvjohns, Wrap
ping Paper f>r Sugar Refiners', Rugs of I & 2
'Quality. Plcafe to apply as above.
FOR SAI.E,
BRF.TAGNES in cafe*
German Chccksin do.
Cumbrick '
Plattilhis
Oznabrips ;
Gold Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
GJafs Tumblers in cases <
Linfccd Oil in cr.fks, &c. See.
George Pennock,
n 103, High-Streit.
J' j! y 5-
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be lit atid entered on immediately a-large
jttnd eltjrant house at the Comer of Arch' and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dinikg room—the largest is 31 feet by
a6 —and two are so conneiled by folding doors
.as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
sides 5 m the garret, well finii"hed for servants.
There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No 29,
in North Seventh street, or at No. xiß, Arch
Street;
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufatflured aa usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyikr
London Porter
Taunton and Buitoij Ale
Hed Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
,«r by thi ptpe> quarter-cafit or gallon—suitable
forexportatiop or home consumption
For Sale by
Jchn Haworth.
No. 1/8 south Front flre.tj
' * jSundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of Waftitlg
ton wiilfce ctpofed to Public Sale, Wy thefub
feribcrs, on the second Monday in O&ober next,
at the Little Hotel, in thefaid City, to com-
Dcnet at IC o'cloca :
Square Wo. 31, 4i, 43, 44, 47, 48, 49, 50,^5,
66, 67. 68, 69, go. 7J.74.7J, 7&ij, 79. K>l,
ioi. lagy tiS, irj.Vao, 141, 62,.56, 84,104, 87,
88', 89, 104, 114, ijj, iio, 61, 1/6, 80,103,
square eail of square »7,fquarefouth ot square 104,
square north of square Si, fqjare east of
square north of "square TlB.
These I.ots ah*
neighborhood of the PrefidAt's Square, and dfeiri*
ed equal in value to any in the city, and ivijt bfl
peremptorily iold ; clear and valid, titles will b»
made to tljd pUi chafer, on receipt of the purchase
money. Terms of sale, arc,good nates, negotia
ble at the Bant of Columbia, one fourth patt in
one month, "tie other fourth in three months, 'ope
other fourth i.n five month","and the remaining one
fourth in leven months.
Sept. ;i
Of the Swedish barque Guftavus Adol'phuPjfroni
Marseilles, co:.lifting of the following .".(titles,
is difqhsrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and t< r
fa!e by the fubfeifibers
BRA NITV, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogfhc'adj'
Ditto, in car?
Frorit'g lac Wine, in cales »f 30 b-vttes
Olive Oil, of a fuperioc tjuality, in bjflctts of 6
r d 1 i
Caper*
.Q'-LItCS
Almonds
Dry Verdigreife
Wriling Papel-
Um 1 rc!la& (Silk) of 28, jc and 3; inches
I a Hlll c s
Long apd Ihort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockirgs
Har.dkerch ess, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers aad Garlands
Q," rich Feathers
I ' iVj bor s
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in fir's
Cream Tariar.
diw
September 17
i J ub!ic notice is hereby given,
To the Freemen of the City and County of
Philadelphia, and the County of Delaware,
THA f a General EU&ion will be held on
TueGJiy the loth day of Oiflpber next ;
the eledlion to be opened between the hours of
10 o'cock in the forenoon, and i o'clock in af
ternoon— wti«-n the freemen of the ciiy of Phi
ladelphia are to meet at the Sute-houfe, in the
laid city, to eledl
Six rcprefeirtatives for the laid city in the gen
eral afllmbly.
Twenty personS for members of common
conned
Four persons for member! of the felefl coun
cil, in the room of Francis Gurney, Godfrey
Haga, Henry Pcatt, anil James Read, whose
time expires.
'J'l.e freemen of the copnty of Piti'ad. i'phia
to elect
Six reprefcntativei far the fa'd county in*ge
ncral iffrm'ilv
The fre«men of the city and county of Phila
el-phi a to ele^t
Two perforfs for fheriff
Oneperfon for county commiffior.fr.
The freemnn of the city andct.uif'y of Phi
ladelphia, and ihe county of Delaware, to elect
One senator for the ftatc.
The freemen of the county of Block'ey and
Kingfeiiing, are to hold their eledlion at the
State-houl'e in the city of Philadelphia.
The freemen of-the Northern Liberties, are
to hold their eledliort it he Town-houfc, in Se
cond Ilreet continued, aho»e Coats's street.
The freemen of the tovynlhrpof Germ mown,
Roxbnrough and Brillil, are to hold their elec
tion at the Union school-house, in Gemnantown
The freemen of the township ot Oxford, By
bery, Lower Dublin and Morcland, are to held
tHer cledion in the house late John Barnfley's in
Buffeltown, in the township of Lower Dublin.
And the freemen of the diltriet of South
wark, and the townfh'p of Moyamenling and
Paffyunck, are to hold tneir e led) ion at the com
mifiioner's hall, in the cliftriiH of Southwark i
forefaid.
The constables of each ward, &c are
to ho!d their ele&ions in the different oillrifU,
to rhoofe their infpcdl'ora and assessors for the
ensuing y»ar, and give their attendance at the
time and refptaftive places
w f£c rn 4 w
Sept. 29
1 he Norfolk Mail b'I'AGE.
J 'I-JIo Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
1 at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, io
Philadelphia, every TmfJah TburfJay t and Satur
day, at t, o'clock, in the u orning ; arrives at Do
ver rirft day, at Snowhill the feconil day, at
Northampton Court Hoafe the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paflengers find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey thorn to
Norfolk.
jaw
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
eyery'Tuefday, Thurflay and Saturday, and'the
■Stage ("tart- from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday. Wodnefday and l r ri.!ay ;'putiup at Snow
Hill thefirft night, at Dover the 2d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
The distance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is left than on any stage route
between thole placesu
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is molt excellent The proprietors
w llingly engage to rctniflfthe whole fare to any
passenger, who, after havir.g performed this route,
will fay that.hi. ever traveled in a ftagc for the fame
distance, so 'joodaroad in America.
aawjw.
Aiiguft ir,
Window Glass.,
0f Superior Quality, and cheaper than ;ny other in
the City— 1
By the (ingle Box or Quantity, may be had atihe
rtotc of the Subfcribcrs, corner of 'Arch and Front-
street.
James C. Iff Samuel JV. Fijher.
ghiladrlphi*, June 9, 1797. 'jiwmwftf
By John Fenno, N° I'ip Chefnut Street
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER g, i-o-.
WILLIAM DEAKINS, jut,
URIAH FORaEST.
From Marfejiles.
THE CAKGO
bottle*
benjamin morgan &
Robert Andrews.
JOHN BAKER, Sheriff.
dtR
OF FAMOUS SIZES)
From 8 by 6 to J9 by 14,
PUitade ',j,b:a, fopt. ?id, J797.
TME Me chants w' o at thi* tmic prefer hav
ing their vc(T t It ami Alet'cliirdi-e eittred .-nil
cleared »t Che(lcro r fl?" vis t,-—are here
by notified, That in compliirtre \v(rh tljcir de
sire, :>nd upon a full conv 1 if! ori |fi.st the
will be mut)uifv.l.'«ncfi«i»l 'to them and.to the'
T T uit«l Hates. The t-olieAol #lf the enflomshas
made arnmsemtnts .to cilaMifh hr fume time
blanches of the t.uflotn house at tliofe places;
where every accommodation in his power will"
be given to the merchants. diw
yfnd ynmcdiatt pojftflion limit,
well finiihcd 1 ejnetltent,
-L ... with a cook house anil other oiu } fitu
atcd in a pleafaijt part of thtf boioi:ol»„of Wilmftig
ton, in the ftite? of £>ejaware —Th ; lotJof ground
has forty fee# front; q j WefT-rtreet, extends
through the fquap;,.tofaKtir ••ftr'cet, joti which is !
erecled a liable and cufrriajj&honfe.
Lately Published,
In on? vol, 8 vo (price one dujlar in board*) fold
by \\ 11 LIAM corner of Second and
Chefr.ut frets'. ' %
A Collection of Papers on the fubj,e£l of
Billious Fevers, prevalent iu the United
States for a few years pail.
Cr.wAi.Mby NOAH WKMTER^jvn.
Containing letters from Do&ops Seaman, Ssrwth,
Bucl, Taylor, Ramfav, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell, on contag'JDM, See. &c. (
City. CsMJt'hjfiows Office,
AuguS 39, 1797.
IN ptrfuance of an Ordirrcnie of tbe Select ancf
Common Council?, pafled the lid day of Way la ft.
Propof&U in writing will he receive;! hy the City
Commiflioncrs for one month from the rft Sep
tember next, for luting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firft dar of January next, the
following public property city—
Th# \vha*f an i landing on Vina Street,
Also on Faffhfras
And High St recti,
Chefnut and W aVnut Streets, I>raw bridge, tvith
th* Scale and Fish Houfrs, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Stress
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
wirh the lots contlguou* thereto, (except so much
thereof as {hall he any buildings ere»sl
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
neceflary for the toll-gates.)
An !?- 3
eolf
LOS T,
ON the Paflyunk Road, between the Elue Gall
Viii the city, a Fowling Piec«, with a brass
ba'rel and silver fight j on the plate of the butt are
the letters " Jamaica, Q__ 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock '• London" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to John Bernard,
at the sign of the Blue Ball on the Paflyunk Road,'
or the office of thii Gazette, frail receive a reward
of Four French Crown*,
Bept. tz.
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a& ol Congrrfs ef the
United Srutrp of America, paJTed at Phila
delphia, tie aßt.li, day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriagss, forth* cpnvfyaoce ps ptrfojis,
which Ifcall be kept by gr fqr,auy perfdn, for his
or her own use, or to let or for the
conveyance of paifecgers, the several duties and
rates following, to w it :
For and upon every Cpach, 15 dols.
upou.every Chariot, 12 d9ls.
upon every Post Chariot, dole,
upon every Ppft Chaffe, it dols.
npon every Phaeton, wither without top,
9 dols. * k
upon every Coachi-e,9 dp!?..
upon otherCarriages,lisvinjf pannel work
above, with blind', glaffe. 01 curtains,
9 dols.
upoa four/wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and rjpi with fleet 4priug«, 6
dols.
open four wheeled Carriages, with wopd
etV'r iron fprin<j» or jacks, 3 dol».
won Curricles with twps, 3 dois.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two whceltopraniages, 3do!s.
upon two wheel carriages, with Heel or
iron firings, 3 dols.
For and upon all other twe wh,eel carri»WT do'i.
upon gveryfoiir wheeled cirriage. having
framed polls and '.ops, and rctlirg up
on wooden spars, 2 dol».
The CnlleiSlors of the Revenue for the firlt Sur
vey of the Diliritft of Penwfylvania, will attf nd
daily, until the joth day o>f September n»xt, for
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germsntown; at thehouCenf Daniel St. Clair,El<}.
in the County of Montgomery ; pnd at thehoule
of James Chapman, Elq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which aHporfonspoffeffed of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors thatliccncfs will V>egrant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a kf» quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the buflnefs of retailirg Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 gilfons, at
the fame t me and at the fame places, oy the offic
er. legally authorise t« grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,,
of the Revenue of t!»o firfl fui
vcj of the Diftri&'of Pcnnfylvauia.
Office ot J'-fpcclion at ")
Germantow, 12th Sept. 1707*'J
1 iVI PORTED
In tho flib America, J aire* F.witig. msiftrr, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
Wjrite Piatillas
Tfcklenbnrgs
Coai-fc Linens
Tapctf
Looking' O-afTes 7
Glass 'Tvnrtilers j
<1 inn eotf.
A:ioufl T A
Act laying Duties on Stamped Ve/luni,
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the ahovi a"- may !ie had at
the Office of tho Gazette of the V'nited .'"tatcs, No
119, thcTi.ut-ftp^r*
COSTOM-HOUSi',
TO BE SOLD, ~
ALLEN M*LANE
N'ul; t-r
in cases.
roK sale ay •
George Penncck.
The Philadelphia f Aijioti, and Tuckerlun
M A IE STAG E.
proprietors beg to infirm the public, tf*at
they I'M* cji.tblfjbrd a Stage bci'ivem
Atfi<hi y B.it'h, Hampton, rnd Mvrtkil F,tr~
noce t Wading Riverfating nt'll., and tf.e toivh'rf-T#c£-
L 'tvn, in Aj-v _' v . r/'_ v , to go oust a ivcck, nid ar:prat>i
d?d n ith gccd lotjti, a cornfmt ,blc carriage, end a ctire
fbl driver., for the c-jrweyar.ee of the and
good:.
Tl< -S'tape ivi. I x fart every YhutfUuy, at \p
o c ecA, A. AT. fro.)i I.l*. Daniel Cooper's ferry, and
lodge that <// "Joel JJuline s, at Lcvgacoming ; and
en cn I*rid,y at 6 P. J\f. arrive at Ctlcb £'*
vans'sj inkecper, iff Tiickerton, dijlaut .(rem the city 54
*ites % {from the Atlantic 6, and from iLe P. ft Grouping
Ptsins 7 ri/iJej) irhit e are good aeccrrzoJatio,;* for tra
veller s, and ivJjfre tare corrfmodious aud fafc pafpnge boats
prdvided to cwozy pajfe r gers to Capt. William War-
btihff, on Drier's JJland, ae\joinining the At-
Fantic, ivierc are good aecommeaatioiis, and a convenient ,
place tfbapbc,; the fj-ortfmun zvie it-ijhes tc.rcg.de himfclf \
iritb foivliig andffhing. may at this pi a le highly gra
tified, there being at altriof every feafin of the \ ejr fai l
abundance.— *the Start; on. its ret::. «, farts
from the afirtef'.ld. C Rfvan/ s in cverv'Fttef i
day, at (f u dtel, A. Al. bre.ilftf s at fob ft i iodine's, at
If'' adlng ■ fridge x lodge that night at Lcngacoming,
and at I e? P.' ftl. oh IVedflfdav, nrriie at tj)e,
afof iiaid Caper's Ferry. It is prej\r*< ed that r't rente of
ll " equal diJlance\v?H It iejj, expcnfivr, or fdrnijh it: tr*~
"Utller itiiib a greater variety of arnvf&Kent, as be n ill
not only Lilt a ykyfadjliil to the atlani c from Tucler
ton y out liuue toe citru-fty of feeing on tie road thiUjir a
number *f c>tutaf fimftcts and' forces t and 'one jl'Jtiner
'Mil, ia cwr?p.'£.'e ord<r. cud nt tvorh ; gebtkmeh, too, icfji
are b-uners, or fii&nr i, <of any <[f :be aforefiid iron ivorli,
are foliated to encourage and support this ivbtfjj
! tlry can 6efo ivell eicepji-moda efj the of tvL'ul
".'iiH mucl Jifei\d'n tour aid. 97w rat. / of p cjjlnircrt
and ar< us JJ '^. XVS : p ry a frov: th
'fwf'M Daniel Coojur's Ferry to FuUcrion. including
tnivguge, Fiuo Dollars for ivay pajjengers
per nile, Four Cents—lso lb. of baggage equal to apaf
finder. Poflage of letters t ttenfpapers t &c. mill be
agreeably t: law.
N. B. lie mail crosses front t'.e Old Ferry
e T"rl?} t .i,rt, s'/>{. 2 0
To be Sold,
And immediate poflelfion given,
TH AT elcgant-feat, called BLOOMpBURY, the
rdijertce of the late John Cox, Esq. with a
bout acres of Land, situate en the Delaware, ex
tending from the mouth ol Afianpickcreck, to Tren
ton ferry- The roanlion house i» a handsome well
conftruiled brick building, Jo oy 40 feet, contain
ing four, room < on tach floor, with excellent cellars,
and a two (lory brick kitchen. Among the out
buildings are a l'.one coach houfc and flables, fuf
ficient t» contain fix carriages and ten horses, and
a (lone cow house, upwards of 100 feet in length.
There is also a Hone farm house with corn cribs,
waggon house, &c. &c. The whole of the prchit
fcs proposed to be fold with this feat, from their situ
ation and improvements, are such as to be worthy
the attention of any gentleman wiihing to retire
from the city. There are alfp about 25 acres ad
joining the above, which will be d-vided so as to
accommodate the purchafcrs. Also, 100 acres ad
joining the town lots on the east fide of the street
leading from frenton to Laraberton, which will
be fold together or in lots, as may bed suit the pur
chaser, and 130 acrts of woodland, two miles from
the above land, which will also be divided if re
quired. The term* of payment will be made easy,
and an indisputable title given. For further parti
culars enquire of Mrs. Cbx.No. 144, South Fourth
flreet, Philadelphia, John Stevens, Efq Hoboc
ken, Mathias Barjon, Esq. of Lancaster, or the
fubferibjer at Trenton.
3tawim.
MASKELL EWING,
Trenton, Sept. 25, 1797.
Sept. 30. t
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carvei —fbr Slitting, Platting, ar.d kolJMg
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THhIH fvpe'riority coifij's in bang; free from
bolts and honey-combed places, which are com
monly found in rollers ca/l in fund, or cloy
moulds. Theft pat, nt rollers are cdji in iron
moulds, prrv&rjly heated, ,ard nilll le ft 2nd to
be mored/nje, J olid and durable than auy idlers
heretofore ufid. Another important aivcuttqgc
they half over others, is, that the necks reqtfi re
no turning/ i., ari imvtedeUeJj fit for use, and.
from their accuraly, rim tuith tefs f> and
require iffs <water to make them perfum their
I', irk. 7hey may be had by application to t/j+J
Patentee in Plymouth, of Qer.. Nathaniel Good-
Guilty or of Messrs. Thatcher a id Haytvard
Hc/lon,
THE SUBSCRI
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREEN LEAF)
HEKKBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the property afiigned to them for the feeuHng
the payment of the note-, acceptances, -ind en
dorfepients given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the Paid James Greenleaf; and thejirlders of
f'uch notes,'acceptance and endorsements, ai«
hereby nctifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amoXint of their refpe<slive
eljrims, bptb principal and interest, at
any time before the 20, th day of Oflober next;
after v-I'.ich dav, the holders not applying,-will
be excluded, agreeably to the terns of align
ment. <
Applications to he mad? at south east corner
of Dock and Second fireets (the Dock-street
fi(!e), between the hours of eleven and one o"
alockevcty day, Sunday- excepted.
, Jacob Baker.
iS, 179?.
i'nis Day is Publilhed,
BY \Mefl". Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, P.ic f and the
olhcr Bookfellcrs,
dim
Price One Dollar "and iwcnt) • f.vc cents.
Elegant y printed on iFcve paper and Hot
prtjfctl,
By John Tb''n>pfon, ■
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several Stntt's with eadi other, and with
that of 'he United Static exhibiting in
the prominent'features frf each Constitution, and
claffingrogethcr their molt i'nj.psrtaM provisions,
under the igvcral luids of a.imimftratir.n ; nith
Natis andOliferr-oiion^.
> By
ja>v
L L. D in J nieniVr of the Coiigrcf-s of the
Unite dSut.es.
Dedicated to tha Pcr.p. of the Uniter States.
N. l>. A so.v Coni- i p;-irstvdo:i :u> i:;i.ri-»r .pa
per, at 3-4thsof a J-i'-i
Fchi waqp 6
July V).
THOMAS WARBLE W Co.
OA. 5 .i-jyitvtf
M ILLS
S'pt. 19. —i^t
»ERS,
H-nry Pratt,
Tho. W. Francis,
John Miller, Jan.
"John AJhlcy,
WILLIAM SMITH,
Of S-ti'fb Ci.rj/in?,
THOMAS HE RMAN LEXJFFER .
North i'ifjh ftrcx't, corner of Nortk alWy, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
; ri'itiwjiicits "X'iat in c»f-> an A
-i.i Soxes, fix yfi>rs ol'J
White. Graves Wine iu cafic*
Ticklenhtrrg* '
Rttffu Sail Clcths
1< aver, v Duel:
Lir n
Hcflians
Diaper and Table Cloth
jfctnpty l-ap-.
Cetanion German Cloth
.*<ll affortmetit of black coloured Ribbon*
F'n'e German I.accs
Ai>oat twelve tons Rußia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
ft.-.ban Soap, in fma!lboxe», for family life
V .' ia n w a 2
IHJS DAY WAS D,
! And for C?!e hy 7HQ MAS DOBSON, at the
I Stone Hoiift. Ko, 41, south Seeohd ftrfct,
' EVENINGS at HOME ;
| OR, THE JUVENILE BUpGET OPENED.
I Confining oravajiefy of MiCcell«jnroi;s Pieces for
i theihflru&icyi and Raiufement of Y< )UNG PER
j SON.—-MxVolumesfeandfowcly printed and bound
up id two voices, price Two Dollars
] he yar: -!y and cxoellence cf thwfe pi.cc.Cß ere
'u h, that the book needs only fa* he known so k<*.
upiyerfally efleenu d. ooc oi thv moil val ian'c pub
lications th t can be put Uifco the ham's o{
ptrfons.
Delightful talk to rear tie tecJer thought,
To'tcack riu* younir idea how tu {hoot,
Vo pour tfcs
To bre'ithfr'^b*-cn'ivtniug v.-rit, nr-ci to fijc
1 j,urpofc ixi tl*c glowing- orc-aft.**
IhuMjO Mi,
Au<;ufl 94,
I'HIS 0 •YISPUBI.ISHKD,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Store Houfj,
No. 4r, foilth Second fircet.
I.etters and Conversations,
Ectweeu fevcral Young Ludifs, ou improving and la-
terelbnj fubjefls.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame dc Camion
with alterations and improvements.
Printed onfine paper, and neatly bound.
Price one dollar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales of extraordinary diflrefs, or of defoerate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
-« hi eh it would he for the honor of young ladies to
lie ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, bfeaufo
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the female
tbarafler is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publiflier was fomuch pleafedwith the peris
fal, that he was persuaded he ftiould do a pleasing
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. ' August 24 —mvi'^w
7"i» Masters and Pilots bringing up VcJJch
from Foreign Ports to this City.
TTTHereasfundry infringements have lately been
\ V made on the laws of this state for the pre*
venting pestilential or inle&ioua diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time tp publift the following ex
tracts from the laws of 2id April, 1794, 7th af»l
Bth fedlions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
F.xifoll of an aft for ft curing the city and port
of Philadelphia from the introduSion of pcfti
tcntial and corttagioiu difcafes.
Sicr. 7. And be it further enafled, that rvery
made* or captain of any fliip or vessel coming from ,
sea (vcfiels aihially employed ;n the coalhrg tra:'e
excepted) and-bound to aiiy port or pfece withiti
the jiirifiliflion of Peonfylvanla.flia 1 caufu his (hip
or vessel to be brought toanchor.or otherwise flay -
e,i in the (tream of the river Delaware, opposite to
the Health-Office on Stata-Ifland aforefaid, and
there to remain until he (hall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of ileal h from the Refidcnt Phy
sician. And i!, previously to obtaining such certi
ficate cr bill of health, any maSer or captain (hall
fufferhi»(bip or vessel to approach nearer thaa the
(aid Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
Oiall land, cause orftiffer to be landed', ctJjLught
on (bore, at any place or port within tffis Com
mt>n\v< a'th, or at any other port or place, with the
intent o( being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any pcrfen cr persons, or any goods, wnres or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
or certificate, he (hall ncgl.-& r ot" refufe to deliver
tjie lam' to the Kealth-Officer, such mite or cap
tain (hall forfeit aixi p y, for each and every such
offence, the furi c.l fivi iil-sidAu) dollars.
Anil the captain c'r mailer of every (hip or ves
sel fhu!! fend a fafe and commodious boat. to bring
the phyfioan on board, and (hall in like manner
cou»' } him back to the Hwith-Ofiice, after he has
concluded his ofi!ci*l examination ; And while he
is rn.king such examination, or in.tafe a:7y subs;-
quent examination. by the Heal li Officer or Con
lulting l'hyficfci, agreealiiy to th<J d regions of
thi- at*, the inatler or captain ffiallexpoie or caulo
to beexpofed to the Search of the Rcfidcr.t P.'iyfi
cSin.orof the Health Officer and Consult ng Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) Cach and every part of thu
(hip or vessel, and (ha!l prcfent to hi . view each
and every perfou cr perfors on,board thereof, and
and lhall alio true and fatisfa>sory answers make
to all such quell ions as the Reiident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination lhall a fie relative to
health of any poitor place fr#m which the Ihip or
vciTel failed, or "has fmee touched, at—the number
of persons Oil board when the (hip cr vessel entered
on her voyage—the number ot persons that have
ftnee been landed or taken on board, and when
and where refpeilively—what persons on board—,
f they hatfe been during the voyage, rr (hull, at
the time of examination, be injected with any pel
tilentinl or contagious disease—and what is the prc
fent flatc and condition of the persons 0:1 board
with ltfpcil to their health or difehfcs. And if
any inaflerer captain (hall refufe to expefe awafore
aid, to the starch of any of the officers uferefaid.
It if he (ha'.l conceal any J'ict p-rfkn, cr in any ether mart
[er deceive tie frip.r officers' afurefaiil in bis imhticrs,
ueli captaiu or malUr.lor every such offence, ihaij
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred Do.i-
Slot. S. Aniif niy rcrfon or pcrfor.s whatfo
ister ((fee ReGdcnt phyflcian, &c. excepted) lhall
go on board any vdl'e), before the mailer thereof
lA*S.
h;is ricrived a certificate ot htahh in the manner
dire&ed, cvrry person so off ndinj, ft,all pay the
\im ol bst uhndrfd dollars
IT bein;; rthfol'-itcly recc(T:iry that fiie foregoing
fudiinns {hould be pua-il]i;ally complied wit. , '.its
fubl'rrilvr, in' compliance with !:is duty, rr.uil e*r
ail a rigrrc-a* oV.trvar.cc of the isnie, or tlfe so»
unda t'hu nec«!T:ty of jjUirißg the liws in force*.
I*'?
mw I
\VOLUMH XII.
mwi'4-vf
W.vt. AI.I.KN, HtaUh Cjfurrf.a,
itjWt
\FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, August il.
A letter from Namttr, ©1 the 31ft ult. give* an
account of tbe confuficn prevailing amonjj the
French troop«, ©wing to the orders and counter
orders of th • dirc&ory. It is said, that while they *
wtrre affirg through Verdtin, some of them cried
" I'rvr le fosi !" ?nci pillaged the Jacobin*. 8100
dy battles hadtalun place between the troops
»Tid thofr vwho tvere in garrison, on ac
count of the former not wearing the cockade.
The fcaft of the T4th of July \va* celebrated as
Vciotia with much pomp. The city was illunvnar
ted, ami the corps of Gen. Angereau was provided
by the municipality with So oxen, 60 calves, ao£
ftjeep, 100 tons of wine,btfides barrels of brandy,
vinegar, See.
At Venice the fame ceremony was obferv<#d :
but the letters from that place, which are
the 20th, fay, that the people of Venice took no
in it, having little reafrn to be pleased Mjith
theiy new government, as fomQ of the rnuniefpal
officers are rot afraid to adopt mcafures woi th* ot
the of Pobv'fpierre : much if
beginning to b<? felt in that city, once so floufifh-.
inp; ; and its Commerce, tiow its luvy k 1011, i$ en
tirely deilroye.'l.
x Whea the bombardment firft tooV place at- Ca
diz, rhe people. as rs the custom of the place, we/e
parading tb- public walks
fcrena4?ng with muflc and: dancing.—Wheii the
. sirs* (hell tfn thrown, no deferip*ion can equnj the
conth it followed,for the town war. dole Ibck
e«> m, and (here wa< no poflihiJitx ol ;.;*ft
tinvr out_tm towards three o'clock yi ths murriiug.
Thfe KamSnl'iJ mails remain due; ihe tn!y
ccminrntal iptelliyrlce of ye'lerday, was convey
ed to uctHrowpli the medium of a Putch paper of
the 4th, inft. 'j ■ whifH it appears that the interior
of Kjillsni} is torn with cormoficn* that arejnenot
well for the hopes of the new conllif.iiiona'ifts who
were to fuhmit their labors to the fan&ic* «f the
loverign people on Tuesday last.
The Hon. Mr Wefl«y has returned >o Lille with
the anfwrr of the Britim cabinet to the difjMtdhes
brought hy. Lord Gower. Miniftcrs, it is undpr
fiood, relate to accede to eertatttterm* proposed hy
France, relative to the ccl Tien of the colmial trr-
Vitoritt of her allies, captured them .in the
ennrie ot the war.—On which ofr thef: it is thaf
j»ovrm>rer.t si ts the hijjheft value it is not known v
hut the public .opinion, in all probability, in ur\i
fon with that of the cabinet, i< in favor of Ceylon
in»!:eEaft, and Domingo, in the Weft-Indies.
The cmpcrcrof Kuflia, it is adde<l, is ufii'g all
his influence to unite the two courts of Vienna and
Berlin, in orrt'r that the three powers may put
themselves in a position to refill the further pro
jrref" rf the revolutionary spirit of Franee, and in
•which effort he has so far fucceed-d as to prevent
the rup'ure which lately threatened between Aus
tria and Ptuflia,
The daring mutiny on board the S/.
George man of war of 98 guns,Capt. Peaiftl,
one of Lord St. Vincents fleet, was lutily
quelled by the .spirit and activity of net,
Commander and First Lfentenant. Three
men, who had been sentenced to fuffer death
For mutinous behaviour in fonie other (hip,
were sent on board the St. George to be
executed; the crew,on the arrival of thepri
foners, drew up a remonftahce in their fa- j
vour, and begged of Captain Pcard to inter
cede in their behalf with the Admiral of
the fleet. The Captain replied, that he
flionld lay their prayer before Lord St. Vin
cent ; and in pursuance to his promise, hfcloft
no time in submitting the remonflranw to
him.—The tioble Earl's answer was, that
he confidercd the sentence of the mutineers
as founded upon folidjuft ice and imperious
necessity, and consequently he could not
think of retracting the fan&ton which he
had given to the judgment of the Covrt
Martial by wh/>m they had been convi&ed.
Upon this determination being made known
to the people of the St. George, the stron
gest symptoms of difaffe&ion were manifeft
ed by them. Obfcrving their conduft, the
Captain took the precaution of watching
their proceedings with the utmost ftriftnefs }
and very soon discovered, by means of an
honest tar, that they had entered into a re
solution of seizing the (hip, deposing the
officers, and liberating their condemned
companions. The evening previous to the
day oppointed for carrying into efFeft the
sentence of the Court Martial was the time
fixed upon to put their plan in force.
Captain Peard, feeing the crew aflemble
in the wnfte, immediately approached, and
addrefTed them to the following effeft:
«« I am perfectly aware of your intentions,
and (hall oppose them at the riik of my
life. Y«u have determined to rtfift the
authority of your officers : I am refofved
to do my duty, and to enforce a striA obe
dience to my orders. I am sensible that
you are for the most part the viftims of de
lulion : I know the ringleaders, and do not
hesitate to avow my intentions of bringing
them to justice. I command you to dif
_perfe and return to your duty." Finding
this address did not produce the def.red ef
fect, the eaptaia instantly rulhed in amidst
the crowd, accompanied only by his firft
lieutenant', bravely seized two of the peo
ple, whom he knew to be the promoters
of the conspiracy, dragged them out by
main force and put them in irons, without
experiencing the slightest resistance from
the crew ; and such wd» the gallant spirit
and determined courage displayed by him
on the occnfton, that order was immediately
reftcred by the remainder of the men retir
ing to their refpeftive stations. The three
convi&s were next morning hanged at the
yard-arm, agreeably to their sentence, in
the presence of the repentant crew, whose
conduct from that time was marked with a
becoming fubmifiion and subordination.
When our accounts came away, the two
mutinous seamen remained in custody, and
the necessary arrangements were forming to
bring them to a speedy trial. The 'firft lieu
tenant has iince been promoted to the rank
of matter and commander, as a just tribute
to his acknowledged merit.^
*
PLYMOUTH, Anguft 0.
Sir Edward Pellew's squadron was chafed
yelterday, off Brest, by a French squadron,
confilting of/two ships of tbe line, eight
frigates and.corvettes, who were very near
re-taking tl.c Ffir American, on which Sir
Edward made the fignalfor the fqiujdron to
disperse, xrr.kc the befc of their way
Xftt <ga3ette. ■»
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY gVFKING, Qctobtr 9.
The following results of the treatment of
the cases of the malignant fever, which
occurred in the public hospital at Kingflon,
in Jamaica, from the 7th of July to the
12tpi of September, 1794, was publifiied
in h Kingston paper, dated September 20,
1 994 i t>y Mefirs. Strupar, Bennet and
Diddington, at the request of Dr. John
Harris, for the fatisfaflion of the.public.
J. Of 32 patients, 21 recovered, 11
died—of these 4 were bled, 2 recovered
thai were treated with calomel, 2 not treat
ed with Qalomel died.
2s> Of 28 treated with calomel, 19 re
covered, 9 died.
i Signed James IValler,
Physician to the hospital;
d Of 17 patients which took no calo
mel,, but were bled, 14 died, 3 recovered—
of 14 which were not bled, 4 died, io re
covered.
Signed, Porter and Maud.
September 17, I 794.
4. Patients treated with calomel —Of
31 not bled, 25 recovfered, 6 died—one
wa» and died.
Signed, Porter and Maud.
Sept. 17, 1794.
5. From the house of M'Glaihius &
M'Larty—Of 29 patients that were bled,
19 recovered, 10 died.—Of 250 that were
not bled, 198 recovered, 52 di?d» —45 re
covered that were ' treated with bark and
calomel, 4 died.
N. B. In s no cafs were there more than
60 nor lels than 12 grains of calomel ad
tniniftered.
6. From the report of Dr. Hawes, it
appear? that ef 28 not bled, the whole re
covered—of 8 that were bled 6 died, and
only 2 recovered—These were all treated
with calomel, and some took bark.
7.' From the house of Tyfe and Carrol.
—Of 37 patients, 19 that were not bled
recovered, r8 died—of 4 others that were
bled, 3 diets and 1 recovered.
Far the Gazette of the United Sta-TleSj/
"be
/-v Philadelphia, Odober sth, 1797. \
Mr. B. WYNKOOP.
(Continued from Saturday's Cuzette.
" But the description of men by far the
most obnoxious to this contagion, who
fuffered most from it, were those lately arri
j ved from Europe, and especially those who
had never before been in a hot climate. In
: general those of tea ft fibres and fanguinous
j temperament, were the most readily infected,
! and to these the disease was most fatal.
" An officer of the 45th regiment visited
! the Hankey, and, with two or three soldiers
who rowed his boat, remained on board
some time. The consequence of this im
prudence was fatal to himfelf; and, in a lit
tle time, to many of the men » all the offi
cers and men were fucceflively fei'zed with
the disease ; but it proved fatal only to .the
new recruits. Of this regiment, confiding
of 280 men, 24 died.
" About the beginning of May the dis
ease made its appearance in a detachment of
artillery, introduced by some of the gunner*
who had had communication with the 45th
regiment.
" Of 84 men, who had been on the island
about 3 years, 56 were attacked with the
fever before the Ift of July, and of thefa
only 5 died. Of 27 recruits 26 were tnfeft
ed, and 21 of these 26 died before the mid
dle of August : a dreadful instance of its
peculiar tendency to prove fatal to those not
not accustomed to a hot climate.
" About the firft of June the fever began
to appear among the Negroes on the estates
in the neighborhood of the town. In the
course of the month only about one in four
wasinfefled, and only about tine in 83 died
of it.
" In the course of the months of May,
June and July, the fever appeared iu several
distinct and distant parts of the island, whither
the contagion was carried by persons who
had imprudently visited infefted houses in
town.
" But the contagion was not confined to
Grenada alone from this, as a focus, it
spread to the other i/lands. to Jamaica, St.
Domingo, and also to Philadelphia, by
means of vessels, on board of which the in
feftion was retained by the clothes, more
especially the woolen jackets of the dcceafed
failorj.
" I have been thus particular in stating
the progress of this malignant peftik-ntial
fever, chiefly with a view to demonstrate
- 1 ft. That it was uncommonly infe&ious.
" 2d. That it arose from hitman contagion,
heightened by various causes to a pestilential
degree of violence.
" And 3d. That liktf the plague, it has
been communicated, in every instance, either
by aftual contafk with an infefted person ;
or by breathing air charged with effluvia
proceeding frm the infefted ; or by touching
"the cloathes of or sleeping in a place where
an infe£led person has been.
" Neither age nor sex were exempt from
the infedlion.
" It had been urged by some, that the
disease arose from tlje flsate of the atmof-j
phere, and that human tontagion could not
give rife to it, as it wes so prevalent in dis
tant and dillinft places at the fame time.—
The foregoing narrative fliews that this opi
nion was without foundation : -"but had there
been no other proofs of its contagious na
ture, the (late of the weather alone during
the months of February, March, April,
May, June, July and August (the latter
end of which the disease difappearcd in Gre
neda) would" he fufficignt for this ptirpofe.
" The weather,though previous to the ap
pesrfnee of this disease, much more wet and
boifterona than usual at that season of the
ytar, war, after it broke, mild'; and wonlji.,
rathtt have tended to check than propagate
infeftion if it had been of a natiu-e to ]?e af
"fefted by fueh an agent. January and Feb
ruary were almtfft continually rainy ; the lat
ter part of March, all April, and the firlt 15
days of May were dry, with t4ie wind gene
rally at eaih The thermometer never rose
higher than 87,. nsr fell lower than 85 —The
remainder of Ma^"' rainy—sometimes with
thunder. In June, the quantity of rain was
much greater. As the change so moisture
was remarkably firdifen and great, much ex
pectation was formed, that the virulence of
the infeftibn woutd~be done away, or con
siderably abated ; but as neither happened,
the strongest pollible iftjgutnent was afforded
againjfc-the agency of the weather in the
produdtion-oftlie difeafc.
In Jurit the thermometer fell more than
orice at noori to 77, and rose but once as
high as 81. All July was rainy with east
erly winds and frequent thunder. In Au
guil less rain fell ; but the atmosphere was
generally close arid sultry—wind variable,
but chiefly S. and W.—thermometer high
est 89, 'loweil 80." And yet without any
visible cause the disease ceased of a sudden
the latter etid of the last mentioned month.
continued.)
From the NEW-TO UK GAZETTE.
Meffr,. M'Lean V Lang,
The following elegant an<i authentic piilurc of
Trance by a Frenchman, with the eitcellint and
intereftiixr remarks us Peter Porcupine thureow,
merit all the publicity that it is poßihie for
nowfpapera to give —NTone but the editors of
of papers devoted to Jacohinifm. and leagued
with nronftersto conceal their crimes and sup
prt-f* the iranfmiffrati of truth to maiikind, can
have any inrat : objeilions to rr-puhlilh such va-
and nccelTary When the
J.icoM.i-news-Brinters in America firft embark
ed in the cause of French aflafiins, to transform
their crimes into virtues,—their falfnoods into
truth*—,E-.nd their unpardonable croeltiei into
afl» of hum ijity—they were little aware thut
Frenchmen of talents and virtue would escape
the revo utfohary -age, to rc - rd truths that
would IhHto the readers of rhelf vehicle n!.h\£,
hoi<4 wirif a fiflfi»nvidlon of the rnt) that had
bi'en prailile.l lty the immntal editors, to pre
pare them for the cnmmillion of all crimes.—■
The reign of is nearly over—Truth be
gin* to burll her chains, and wjjl. ere long, as
cend hsr throne, and in defiance of Jacobin
print», shine in meridian splendor. Let these
printers, before it be too late, endeavor to nnke
their peace wikh unsullied Truth and Juftite, by
onening tfteir prelTes for their recepti jn, left
they inspire the people, so long the dupes of
{ filfhood, to avenge their cause and wreak upon
, tU:ir heads, all the vengeance they intended for
the friends of order and government.
PICTURE OF FRANCE
BY A FREN'CHMAN.
(From a Paris theQuotidienne.)
" France wiihes rbr peac^ —trance wiffi
, es to fee an end to the revolution :—both
are necessary for her. These are 'the pre
dominant traits in'her, pifture ; for, who
knowsher wcllsnough to paint her as she is ?
How Ihoulda foreigner know France, when
France does not know herfelf ? Befides,'how
is any body to know a country, in'which all
the political, religions, moral and civil insti
tutions, have been annihilated, most of the
monuments deftrayed, private fortunes ruin
ed, and in which even the inhabitants them*
selves are no longer, cognizable, except by
their frivolity and their courage ; a coun
try in fhoTt, in which every thing is new,
and which no observer has yet travelled o
ver ; a country, moreover, whose furface is
so changeable, in such constant motion, that
it presents no fixed objeft to the eye, hut
I misery ; and that a pifture which would be
striking to-day, would cease to be a likencfs
to-morrow ? yet every man pretends that he
fees very clearly what France is, beeaufe
each individual views it through the prism
, of his passions ; and the pifture always
i seems to be like to every man, who recog
' niics his own features in it.
" The infplence of upstarts, the profliga
cy of both sexes, the credit of prostitutes,
i their gold and their diamonds contrasted
with the rage of the wretched creditors of
the state j the despair and felf-deftruftion of
a croud of unfortunat# beings, reduced to
the most dreadful djftrefs ; the manoeuvres
and insatiate cupidity of stock-jobbers, and
monopolizers ; all the dreadful consequences
of an unbridled pafllon for gaming ; the
government without means ; their eijhsuft
ed treasury, and their irupotenee to rcftrain
the most horrid disorders ; intrigue and
money njt or|ly disposing of all places, but
eveti direfting the fentence# of courts of jus
tice { .parties diftinguiflied, one by its rage,
a ftcond by its apathy, a third by its ma
chiavclifm ; wickcdnefs anticipating puber
ty ; audacious crime assuming the malk
of timid mvdefty : In Ihort, aflaffination,
, plunder of every kind, the most atrocious
manners, and not afingle effort, not a lingle
dyke to restrain this- inundation ps
Such is the pifture of France ?
" The Frenchman who cherilhes his
country, wiflies to rejeft the fears of a doubt
ful futui-ity"; but hbw can he rejeft them,
when his car is i nee (Tandy affailea with the
most affliftive recital* ; when the history of
each day presents new excesses or new mif
fortunes ; when there no longer exirfs either
a restraint upon debauchery, education for
youth, or! relief for indigence ; when eftab-
Jifliraents of every kind, the happy fruits of
civilization, remain in a state of demolition,
withput a single attempt to rebuild them ;
wheh Paris, careless about the events of the
war, is only inteTefted in the adventures of
an aft re fs, or in the fides of some fuccefsful
fpcculator, who has suddenly quitted his
Ihop for a palace ; when the direftory daily
delivers a most alarming account of the finan
ces ; and when, with upwards of twenty
thousand laws, with numerous armies, and
■fltith a power unlimited, they are unable to
discharge the firft duty of a government, by
iiifuring the fafety 6f individuals."
[A pifture drawn in a more masterly man
ner than the above, I do not recolledt to have
seen. It is elegant perspicuous, strong,
r.nd true j qualities that rarely meet in a lit
erary description.
Such is the pifture of France. Such is
the Hate, into which the vaunted revolution
has plunged that once, flgutiihing, and hap
py country. Such !s the horrid republic, <
for which the filly' people of France have
been led, step by step, to truck thejr an-i
cient monarchy, giving their wealth, their
religion, their national honor. an<j millions!
of lives to boat! and yet, fcandalqiis to re
late, this abominable exchange is,a theme
of congratulation with many persons fn A
merica ; and, what is something perfeftly
preposterous, these people pretend at the
fame time, to be exclusively the friends of
the Frepch., Their friendfhip, it is evident,
is confined to the wretches, who tyrannize
over that unhappy land to the robbers,
the murderers of the . people. They live fn
iiopes of imitating them on this the wa
ter ; and it cannot, be too often repeated,
that unless the friends oforder, reljgion, and
the government, fliew milch more'aftivity
and zesl thnn they have hitherto done, imi
tate them they will; and will render Ame
rica a resemblance of what France now is.]
From a Savannah Paper.
DESPOTISM OUT-DONE.
Jarcdlrvin, who, for our fins and to com
plete the degradation of onr 'state, is the
present Governor of Georgia, has of late
done what ancient tyranny with the power
ful aids of fuperftitiorj did never attempt,
nor modern anarchists ever dared to avow ;
he, solely veiled with the executive powers
of this government, has totally annihilated
a law palled for the express purpose of remo
ving his own imaginary obstacles, doing a
way every refponiibility on bis part, and ren
dering his line of proceeding easy for folly
itfelf to ail tipon a law too enacted by
the very faftion which treated him ; and a
faftion it mnft be, whatever is its* nt»mljef, |
as it is composed of men who tjfory in being j
considered etierr,! ' our govern- I
ment and authors oi such a remonstrance to |
Congress as would disgrace even the B.ita
vian Republic to pneient to the French Di
rt&ory. By|» jq the faft j—the fsmo'is,
or rather i,rfsmou*s law, rcpeYn the tales
of the western territory, contained i-provi- v
lion in generr.l terms, for returniag the jMir-
Qhafe money (o Inch as miglit be inclined to
receive it—thie d'd'nat'fuit tlie caution and .
capacity of our governor, and accordingly I
the next session of assembly defined
the particular vouchers which weie nc.. 'Tj
ry to draw the purchase money as >relj|
out of the Treasury, and now on r
application made in the very terms of t.>-
aft, an abfolifte refufal of granting a war
rant for any such monies has been made by
this said governor of ours. What ! did
you Jared lrvin put your name, or your
mark, or something more like a mark than a
name to this said aft, and nowycu require
the original grant to be surrendered to you
before you will fuffcr a dollar of Yazoo mo-,
ney to come out of the TiVafury ? Go Ja
red ! To your occupation offcuj,age making
—go and comb your hair from your fore
head straight back nor longer iofult the great
saviour of mankind with an imitation of the
manner, which historians tell us he divided
his hair on the crotvn of his fa c red head ;
or else make a declaration that you are fol
lowing at a humble distance the TippL-t of
the mode, who disclaim every idea of receivr
ing the ne<ui\light, or any other, through
this puritanical exposure of their cranium.
DOTHFRt/M.
WILMINGTO'N, (Del.) Oftober 5.
On Saturday the 30th day of September
last, died at Newcastle, uiivcrfally and fin-'
cerely regret U-d, GUNNING BED
FOIiD, Mjquire, Governor of jlic State of
Thp vi: ues of his ch;-rs£tcr
conferred honor on human. nature— attrac
tive and admired, he was equally concila
ting in public, as in private life—a friend to
mankind and the genuine principles of liber
ty, be became an early and zealous afiertor
of his country's rights by afti.ig in a diftin
guilhing military station, ia the American
army, during the late periods of the late re
volutionary war—afterwards having naffeck
through various grades of civil office in (his
government, with the ltrifteft honor and
pufeft integrity, he was raised to the Su
preme Executive Office of the State of Del
aware, by the welj-merited fuiTrages of a
Free people-—a firm fupjorter. of the Federal
Government, yet with an undeviating atten
tion to the interest of this State, he filled
the dignified and important station in which
he was placed, with the greatest reputation
to himfelf and honor to his country —But
alas! amidst the mpft flattering profpefts of
personal happiness and public ufefulnefs,
scarcely had half the term affigued by the
Coiillitution for his continuance in office e
lapsed, before the awful moment arrived
which terminated his life.—ln his private re
lations he was beloved apd refpefted. His
hospitality was liberal and unbounded, em
bracing ail parties, diftated by philanthopy
and an ardent desire to gratify and con
ciliate those around him—And so long as
thq virtues of charity, beneficence, and
piety, {hall be considered as ornaments of
human nature, his memory will continue to
be esteemed and iheriflied. ■ Endeared to a
nunierou3 circle of relations and friends by
mildness of temper, benevolence of disposi
tion, and suavity of manners—his death is
an irreparable loss and will long -be deeply
deplored-
(MmUr 3.
Wf announce with much r>'< af.lrJ, and from
authority iicqiieftionahle, that 4liS'Marqiti» IDE
LA FAYET TH anil £*,m>fy libera
ted fi'iwn confinement i#!he prison iff Oljmitz.
His Son, who ip now at Mount Vfrno'n, will
to that parts,of Europe, wbicli wjil foonejl
present himto thrrmhrai e of a-p.eWeriiied parent,
and Mother and Sifter.' inimitably affeiftienate.
HALIFAX (N. C.) September 25.
Last week arrived at Plymouth in this
Tlate, captain Levin Bofman, in a schooner
belonging to MelTr3. Stewart and Armftead,
of that place. Captain Bofman was captured
on his homeward bound passage by a French
privateer, who took all the hands out of the,
fehoo,n«r,except the captain, mate and super-
cargo, awd put five of qur dear sansculotte
allies on bo£.rd. Having no French colours,
they transformed tbe American into French,
and with the fragments decorated the unfor
tunate p4ptain, round whom ' they danced
the Carmagnole, by way of condolence
They then seized a. hog on boaVd, which
they called King Qeorge, and after cutting
off his head, apin danced the Carmagnole
and played other republican gambols, ala
mode de Paris. Tbe sagacious and intrepid
captain did not let these manoeuvres pass un*
observed—but taking»a good opportunity,
seized the fellow at the helm, whom he foou
fecurcd, and gaining poffeflloij. of rite arm
chest, with the afliftance of his mate and su
percargo (a manly and spirited Quaker of
Bertie county) the others were immediately
mattered. The privateer was at this time
only at a small distance, they therefore pro
ceeded on the course direfted until the priva
teer got to a proper distance, when they
altered their course, committed our dear al
lies to a leaky boat, in which Wy might
either fitig la Carthagnolc, ?a ira, or any o
ther republican song, bale or link—proceeded
on their voyage, and these gallant brave men
had the good fortune to * ach their destined
port, without again encountering any of
these fnercilefs pirates. It is fnppofed the
Frenchmen got frfe to land, as c'ne of the
Iflan'ds was in fight.
CHARLESTON, September 20.
We arc happy to„announee tbe arrival of
the Carolina in port ; was a general
and great anxiety left The fliouldfall into-the
halids of tbe pirate Le Grouper, whiclv is
fullv equalled by the pleasure of her.arrival,
i We miy now hope th t the remaining
fall ships, from the late season at which they
are expe&ed ro arrive will have a clear coalt
made lor them 1 by the Engiifh cruisers ex
pected in tli: latitude; and that we may
shortly have tbe accounts of the Grouper's
capture CO.:': rmr-d.
A corr ooiiifenf thinks, that it would be
adv'feah'.-, cour Colic£lor to provide the
R ve.m Cut er of this diftrift, with a
COl' ' ITLL upon the fame plan as
that of I, Panh'na, commanded by citizen
iTt • ; .'t i well known thatan 18 pound
<v 11 ':t with, great convenience and little,
i '• • > :• oe ir-adc to move by such a machine.
• Monday last, after a short
, nr. James King, merchant, a na
-01 Dublin, lately from Philadelphia.
September 22.
Mr. Grove throughout the lad fefi(ion of
Congress, voted with the federal tide of the
House of Representatives. Like his cotrl"-
1 patriots Gen. Morgan, Shepherd, Brookes,
■ &c. &c. He on every, occaiion supported
1 the honor and interests of his country. He
was ftro.ngly disposed to resent the insult of
fered to her in the reje&ion of gen. P nck
• ney. He wished to resent the injuries done
oiir merchants by capturing their vcfTels,
See. to our mariners by consigning them as
prisoners of war. He wasnot disposed, as
were monsieur Gallatin and Ned Liviagftofi,
to bear infult3 and injuries bccaufe they cantc
from Frame. 9
Capt. Homer on Friday last, off Cape
Hstteras spoke a French privateer fchoontr,
tbe description of whh-ich answers to our pi
rate Le Grouper ; the Federalist mult hate
.palled her in the mVht and thereby have es
caped .a ft con d piratical attack.
■ By capt. the brig Fox, anchor
ed yeftetday off Fort Johnson, we have the
follow ■ ,ijt information ;
That previous to his failing from the Ha
vjnrta, a packet arrived from Cadiz with
difpatcbes to the governor, to prepare therr
felvcs to cjrrv on the war with the utmoft
v\*our—Frefh preparations were making
there . *
That Santhonax our friendly ALLY,had
arrivud at the Havanuah, from the Cape, to
demand a convoy to carry him to France ;
tluit a frigate was granted him for the pur
pose, ajuV lie.'w-rts to fail on the 12th instant.
Tliat American vessels were arriving in
great HsmbeA at the Havannah, and con
demned as soon as they arrived, and the
cargoes taken and fold to the highest bidder*
—ir makes no odds where they were bound
to,, whether to Freneh or Engiifh ports.
FederalJP 1 arrival, and anatmr valuable car*.,
go fafc.
Our port has thus far been fortunate—
molt of our fall (hips have arrived fafe, and
we have every reason to exped, that any
pirates which infeft our coafls, inuft either
flee it, w be captured.
Captain Pratt confirms the information,
we before publifbed, of the pirate Le Group
er having fired at him, on his outward pas
sage, and that too without f.iewing any co
lors. •
A CARD.
The foreman and other citizens compof
itig the Grand Jury of theprefent court, are
invited to play at Pass Dice, from,nigbt un
til morning, at the City Theatre,. Church
ftrert ; if this invitation be not attended to,
- they may rely upon being themselves pre
fentefl, as a nuisance.
Boilon Glals-Manufactory.
''l ''HE citizens of the United States are hereby
X informed, that the manufacture of Window
1 Oaf. 'is now com mj need it the G! »f= Houic in Bcf
r ton.
Tt in needkfs,to fay any thing of the eiccilcnt
oiu! : ty of the Boston (11 b, as it is so well known
thrMK'hout the United St ..Vet b;' in every reipc&
greatly sup- rior to any ever impWtM from Europe.
! It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may !>e confrantly had hy applying to Charles F.
KurfEit, at. the Glafb House.
Orders from the difcant States to b« addjtefled to
Mr. Samuel Goae, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30,1797 O4 —2awSw
M'jfrs. Timothy and Mafin, Charlcf.cn • Mejfrs•
' Hodge and Boy lan, Halifax, N. C. Mejfrs. WilUtt
end Q'Con'icr, Norfeti ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejfrs. Tuuit and Brozun, Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
iXew-York ; end Messrs. Huufou Isf Goodwin, Hart
ford', ftCr S.ymour, final) ; ate requeued to inftrt
thf nLvc-enct a nveei 6 ivech. The au vunts to le f&i -
Moardid to the Editor.
N~CTTT~C~K
-THK Offices of the Department of
the pr Tent retr.oycd ne.ir to the Falls df the ScuyS
. kill, on the KitJgc'l^oad.
Srptec-.bcr 4,
ir- RHZljc <©a
PHILADELPHIJ,
WONDAY EVFNWG, dcmBFR 9
■ *. i,.■ ■... ■ f . -~r
'Total of burials for 24 hours, ending Satur
day at noon.
* Grown Persons. , Children.
' Christ Church I "'o
» St Paul'*. * o
St. Mary's Church> 3 I
Friends' I o
Swedes I I
City Hospital* II o
19 »
* Four from tbi city and fuburbt.
r The number of burials on the 7th of Oflober,
179.?, was Eighty one.
Deaths in the City, Suburbs and Hia
tal yesterday, 12.
Briflol, oSober 7, 1797.
Sir,
Herewith you wjll receive 470 dollars,
being the donations of a number of the in
habitant! of this borough, and citizens of
Philadelphia at present residing among us,
as per the annexed lift of fuhferibers, and
■which I am authorised to request may be
distributed among the fuffering poor in that
way and manner the committee maj? judge
most proper.
I have the pleasure to inform you that
fubferiptions for a similar purpose are now
going forward at Burlington, Mount-holly
and, Trenton, and that it is highly proba
ble considerable relief will be obtained from
those places.
With a sincere wifli you may speedily be
relieved from the painful calamity which
you haw been, and are now afflifted with,
I am, very refpettfully,
Your obedient humble servant,
Archibald M'ELROY.
To James Old den, Chairman
of the volunteers superin
tending the tents on Schuyl
kill.
Subscriber's names. Dollars.
Kieran Fitzpatrick 20 !
Andrew Bayard " 20
Captain Sword I o
George Curven 10
Archibald M'Elroy 10
Richard S. Footman 10
Isaac Morris 10
Joshua Clibborn 15
John Dowers 10
Samuel Gatliff 20
John Chalmers 10
James Agnew 5
Jof. M. de v znardi 50
Matthew Randall 10
jbhn Reed 10
amc-s Glentworth 10
Robert Hey (bam 15
William Shippen 5
Joseph Clunn 2
X- Simpfon 2
Joshua B. Bond 20
Walter Sims 10
John Blcakley . 20
Wi* uai and Samuel Keith 40
AUxar.der Cain to
William Wayne 10
Mrs. Wayne 10
Charles Bifibnet ■ ' 5
David De Bartholt 6
Samuel Scottcn 10
Dr. John Whitt 10
Amos Gregg * 5
Capt. Samuel Wheeler 10
John Palmer 20
Richard Dale 20
William Hewfon 1 10
Cash c 1
470
The Commiffionera have received since last
publication, the following donations, viz.
, , Dollars.
Clerks of the Bank of* North Ame
rica (additional) 3
Jofnua
Benjamin Wilfpn 20
Thomas M. Willing TOO
Daniel Hartung / 25
Han. Pemberton • 40
Robert Dawfon 20
Stephen Girard 100
Montgomery & Newbold £0
Abraham Kentfmg, jun. "so
Charles Wharton 100
James Sawyer 10 1
James Martin 20 :
Cash JO 1
Edward Burd 5° 1
Curtis Clay 20 ]
Will. M'Murtrie 20 . i
George Irwin 10 j]
Cash - ' 3° 1
Nathan Baker 10 t
Samuel Merrick 10 1
Dr. John Redman 20 <
Clerks of the Bank of the United }
States 130 »
John Nixon (additional) 100 j
Stephen Beafley , 20 f
Thomas Moore 100 1
Archibald M'Call ico t
Cash -v.' 20 r
William Rawle ... 50 t
William Binghanv" 3 OQ c
Sarah Lea 3° c
Joseph D. Drinker 20 c
Charles Bitters 20 1
Nathan Shephard 35 1
Dr. Adam Kuhn 100 e
George.Davis • 20 1
Charles Harris, 100 loaves of bread, one t
baVrel of cheese, one keg of sugar, and c
one keg of tea. J-
Christopher Marshall, 32 bushels of Indian t
corn.
1 Edward Garrigues, Sec ry._ c
r
At the Germantown meeting, 1200 Jol- (
lars were fubferibed immediately. e
And nearly the fame i'um has been sub- <
scribed at Darby. {
' The amount college J at the two Chari
ty Sermons, preached at Germantown or
Sundity 'last, by the Rev. James Abercrom
bie and the Rev. Dr. Blair, was 422 dollars
We are informed, ihat the focie.y o;
German Baptists are making a collection foi
r the relief of the poor of Philadelphia.
At a meeting of a number of refpeftable
1. Citizens Philadelphia, at the Union school
house in Germantown, on the 7th Oft. '97 ;
It -was refolvedthat a committee to confifl
of nine, be appointed to colleft contribu
tions of the citizens now resident in Ger
mantown and its vicinity and others, for the
purpose of alleviating the distress of such of
their fellow-citizens who may be deemed
proper objefts of relief by the conjmiflion
ers appointed by the governor to carry into
effe£t an aft of the General AjTembly pafT
. Ed on the 29th day of August last.
That the following named gentlemen be
a committee, viz.
John Dunlap, Robert Hare,
Benjamin Chew, jr. Peter Baynton,
, John McCulloch, Henry Praitt,
Gideon Hill Wells, Thomas Fisher, '
William Willacy
That the proceedings of the meeting be
signed by the chairman and secretary, and
published for the information of their fel
low-citizens.
BENJAMIN CHEW, Chair.
Samuel W. Fisher, Sec'ry
At a meeting of a number of the citizens
of Philadelphia, held at the Union School
House in Germantown, ob Saturday, the
30th day of September 1797; —
It was agreed unanimously, to recom
mend the following gentlemen as suitable
characters to fill the offices which precede
their refpe&ive names :
Member of the Senate of the slate of Pcnn
fylvania, for the diflriS composed of the
city and county of Philadelphia and county
of Delaware :
Benjamin R. Morgan.
Members of the House of Rrprcfentat 'rves for the
City of FbilailrbhUt.
George Latimer Robert Wain
Jacob Hiltzheimer Lawrence Seckel
Joseph Ball Francis Gurney.
Members of tlh Seleff Council of the City of
Philadelphia :
Godfrey Haga Henry Pratt
James Read Francis Gurney.
Members of the Common Council of the City
of Philadelphia :
Matthias Sad'er Michael Keppele
James Todd Daniel Smith
Thomas Parker, t Thomas A'libone
George Penndck James S. Cox
John Rugan, Henry Drinker, Jun.
Kearny Wharton, Caspar W. Morris
Joseph Hopkinfon Thomas P Copi
Thomas Greeves Joseph Magoffin
Conrad Gerhard Lawrence Herbert
Gideon H. Wells George Fox.
Published by order of the Meeting,
HENR V PRATT, Chairman.
JOHN HALLOWELL, Sec'ry
Ala county meeting, held at the widow
Lefher's Tavern in Germantown on Thurs
day the sth of Oftober 1797, it was unani
mously agreed to support th? following per
sons at the ensuing election, to fill the offi
ces to which their names are affixpd. <
Senator.
Benjamin R. Morgan.
Jfembly.
Richard Tittermary Peter Micrcken
Joseph Copptrthwait Samuel Wheiler
Thomas Paul Thomas Forreft. >
THOMAS DtrNGAN, Chair. /
Charles W. Hare, Sec'ry.
At a second meeting of the inhabitants of
the county, at the widow Lefher's tavern,
Resolved unanimously, that the name of
Franklin Wharton be substituted in the a
bove ticket, for that of Peter Miercken,
declined. '
THOMAS DUNG AN, Chair.
Charles W. Hare, Sec'ry.
To the Electors of Philjdelphi/I.
Having feen*S ticket, proposed to be run
at the ensuing Eleftion, by which the Sena
tor and all the Members of the AfTeuibly art
to be changed. I beg leave to afl< any con
siderate person if this is a wife, or prudent
rneafure—admittirig the proposed candidates
were equally well qualified in point of abil
ities for public business, they certainly are
in a great rneafure unacquainted with the
mode of conducing it, therefore so thorough
a change mufl be a great difadvant3ge if
it was the wish of the citizens to make an
entire change, surely fomeperfons would be
placed on the ticket that had heretofore had
fonae experience of the mode or manner of
proceeding in the Legislature ; I would not
be thought to inflnuate any thing against
the chara&ers of whofe names
have been held out to the public, and some
of them I should certainly not objeft to at a
proper time 5 but let me ask are they supe
rior to those who .served us last year.
Mr. Benj. R. Morgan has served in the
senate the sessions which began in December
last and the short one of two days in August;
during this time the liberality of his senti
ments, the candour he has always shewn and
the soundness of his judgment, has very
deferyedly procured the refpeft and confi
dence of I believe every member of that bo
dy—he was the only person of pr sessional
legal knowledge in the senate, and no other
person of that description is expefted to be
ele£led this year in any of the other diftri&s ;
I therefore think, that without detrailipg „
from the merits of the person jropofed in
opposition to him, or arly other who might
be proposed, considering all circumflances,
he is the best choice we can make.
One cirCumstance I hope it will not be
deemed improper to mention—Will it be
right to make so great a change in the ab
sence of so great a proportion of our fellow;
eleAprs ? The difference in the number of
deaths in '93, and at this time, may, in
some rneafure, be attributed to the early i
- j removals, which broke the chain by which
i infe&ioa was through the city,
<->ur absent fellow-citizens have not beer
• unmin( lfiil offys, but We -contributed and
are contributing largely and liberally for oui
r . ' 11 w *"lft they are dwjg this wtli'it look
j well to take advantage of their abfeace : it
was not done in '93 —we undoubtedly pof
-1 v. 8 . ri £ht to vote for whom we please,
ut in the exercifc of that right, I hope we
: will be guided by rtjafon and refle&ion.
: W.
•'! MR. FENNO,
. I objeft to no man as a legislator, who
i. as pharafter and talents for the ibition. I
: would not, however, fclect a rtinu for a Sena
[ tor, because he. wa* a merchant, mechanic
- or publican, or because he had, in either of
. those chapters, performed an office of hu
manity. "Vy ill any one who values the pri
" of an ele&or, chufe a man to legislate
011 the great and intricate concerns of a state,
merely because he had risked his life in nurs
ing the lick, or because he had made a for
rune by keeping a public house J I believe
the annals of electioneering do not contain
limilar reasons for railing a man to the sta
tion of legislator ; no others have been of
fered (to my knovvjedge) in the pre Tent
inltance. Israel Israel is objefted to not (im
ply for being a publican ;/but &ing apublican,
and his friends not pretending that he pos
sesses the irquilite qualifications for a legisla
tor, the circumstance of his being a fiiiblican
renders his being chosen totally improper.
There is nothing in the insinuation that he
is a republican, and objefte'd to on that ap
count. Mr. Israel is not set up by his friends
as a republican, but as a man " who rificed
his health in relieving the fufferings of his
indigent fellow-citizeiis." A retrofped of
a few years will (hew that it is utterly im
possible he (hould havf been cfcntemplat?d as
a friend either to our general or state govern
ment. If, therefore, we. do, not m an.-to
displace the mod efficient man in theSenatj,
our votes will be given fWH amin R.
Morgan, who ic, part all controveiTy, a
Republican, for he is a friend to the consti
tution of the state, and of the United States.
Let the citizens, -therefore; attend the
ele&ion,. and vote against what is called the
Democratic Republican ticket—the success
of that ticket would be more injurious to the
city and state than the yellow fever.
CIVIS.
From the American Daily Advertiser.
Messrs. Claypoole,
The election to-morrow is an extremely
important one. Every citizeti who has the
welfare of his country at heart, (hould there
fore attend and give an houeft vote,, Such
as happen to be out of town ought surely
not to be deterred from the exetcife of'their
right offuffrage, on this important occasion.
b" any which they might imagine
they would poflibly run by venturing into
the city as far is the State-house. Byufmg
proper precautions, and avoiding the city
till they can strike into Chefnut-ftreet, they
cannot be said to run any rid;'at' all; that
part of the city being rttarly as'healthy as
ever. They (hould refleft «n the importance
of the occasion, and on the danger, if they
are remiss, of a set of men being given to the
city as representatives, who could have no
chance in common times. On Rich an "oc
casion it certainly behoves every Wll-wither
to the true interest ofhi3 country, \o throw
aside any personal fear that might clafli with
an abfblute duty to the public.
"
MR rCNNO, \
I find in a piece fretted F. ft. Sayre, three '
marfliallcd ir the rsnks of 1 reaiiy
never to fee brought lofWard op fucjv
eroundi. Ir U but little med.cal readipg I to
boafl of—but of Uiat little it has so nianccv tjitt
the works ,of the old writer. £)ier4iefijr©eck have
composed apart, and I welt-remember rhe genrral
teuor of his evidence to be pptnte ly agiinU bleed
'nfc:~Not being in poflc;fiiQ» of hi? work, i am
incapable of giving his <J\vn vo~ds- The fame,
nearly, maybe said of Sydenham, almost tUe oulv
physician of ftar.ding'merit tjfit bar. been quoted
en the fide of the Blo<j"-letters. Sydcnhan>* was
in truth a preat and fuccefsful pKyfician— great in
his practice—greater 111 the legacy he has left to
posterity, \n l.ii invaluable He introdu
1 ccd bleeding int<s England to a greater extent than
any man had done heftire him—but he confiqec
this pi chiefly to "afes iuiihrnniatory fever
small pox, meaHci, &c I ijureat medical
gentlemen to read this writer with attention, and
to quote him candi ']y If he ha« jurtice done him,
his evi lence will littte favor the J>ra«fUcis of bleed
ing in the extent to which it has of late een at
tempted to be parried. As to Bot.illus ! on/ cannot
fufliciently wonder at the want of judgment in
b ing him forward on so critical a qutftion. Dr
Rush knew better than to do this—and though Bo
ta Ins is in trurh an authority more to 2ns purpose
than any other he could possibly hjv<e to,
he knew top well that he was no thaa the
im mortal Soy orotic J
be rfrrct r ed that medical gentlemen, in
ilcad of making rclearclies for thenirdves, (hould
pin their ifaith'iin thofo. of others—ami hastily a
-dopt authorities a« fevorsible so their views,
ecaufethey
ver ungn uridedly ar.d hpwever faifely and-per
verfcly qliptedi J 'hat Hodges, Sydenham ajjd al
most al! those cftiotetl by Dr. Rtift in hlnvoi'k. as
r.dvocates far bUetHng, have been fhamrfnlly
wronged, w:!l. more cpi\ye;.;iflr.t accofs can
be hau to those authors, be fully, proved, by.
__\racelsus.
EXTRACTS. "
" SinjTiihrity in any thing" (such, .
for instance, as tearing about the ci
ty, in a little box of very odd conftru&ion)
" is a fubjlitute for filch gteat 'or Ufeful quali
ties as command reJpeS, ar.d. henqe we find
it chiefly in little minds.'' ( . ■' Rufli.
L'Efi/ilP&h Okrf
" There is more than way of playing , .
the QUACK :It is hot neceffary,'for this !,
purpose, that a man (hould advertise his .
/kill or his cures, or that he (hould mount a , .
phaton. A phyfician.adls the fame part in 1
a different way, who assumes the ch irafter |.
of a madman or a brute in his manners, or ,
who conceals his fallibility by an affefted j
gravity or taciturnity. Both characters, like ,
the quack, impose upon the.public. It is i
true they deceive different ranks of people; i
but We must remember that thjre are two i
kinds of vulgar, viz. the rich and the poor ; |
and that the rich vulgar are oiten belt\v the j
focr, In ignorance aud credulity. ' Il:d. j <
* « , .«
i ExtreA of a letter Trom London, to a com
mercial house in Salem, dated Aug. 11
i "At the request of Mr. King, the A
l merican AmbafTador, fignified to the com
- mittee of American Merchants, they have
: applied to the Admirality Tor convoy for the
: fair (hips, clear of all danger fronj cruisers
.on this eoaft, which complied with, and
, we presume many will avail themselves of it:
: They are done at 10 guineas, to return 2I
per cent for partial convoy, or 8 guineas
without returns.'
1 "Tobacco appears now to have seen its
1 highest', the price is rather giving way.
L Coffee and cotton arc both brilk. aad Sugar
, has not experienced any depreciation (ince
the arrival of the leewar4 island fleet. This
year's import of all thffe articles from the
Weft Indies promises -to be but small
New-England Rum fold at 3/3 to 3/6; Ja
i, maicarum from America at j/to 5/accord
ing to the strength, and in cafe of peace will
bf much lower.- Moll articles are heavy,
as the buyers only purchase from hand to
mouth while the issue of the negociation is
iii fufpence; ard the fecrefy with which that
is co^ndufted surpasses all precedent, and
baffles all conjecture."
Married, at Elkton, Johm Gilpin, Esq.
to OTifs Polly Hoill'ngsworth, bot*. of
that place—A union which promises all the
felicity the hymenial bands are capable of
giving.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Pout of Philadelphia.
The schooner Hope, of Philadelphia, capt-
Parsons, arrived at the Fort. Sailed from
Cape iF ran ens Auguf. 30, bound to the Gona
ives , to receive a cargo far Phila.'elbhia. Sept.
I, at 8, A. M. •was boarded by two French
barger, three leagues diflant from the Platform,
in a calm • they remained by me till night, and
plundered the' Hope of her provifions,Jlores,
fpart rigging, canvas, boat fails and 'three hun
dred and forty five - dollars in cajh from the 1
i captain, together with clothing and bedding
from the cabin boy to the captain, not leaving
us a hat on our heads, or a shoe to our feet,
flores of all kinds, -with the medicine chefl, com
pass, spying glass, drafts, a cutlass, two piflols
and every thing else they could lay their hands
on and threatning us continually to take our lives
if we did not tell them>there was money and
where it was, &c.
Sailed from the Gonaives Sept. 13 th—
Sept. 14th was boarded by two barges from
the Gonaives, examined by them and discharged.
Sept. 16th was boarded by two Frenchpriva
teers, overhauled and difmijfed. Same day
saw several Americans boarded, they altered
their course for J ago in Cuba.
Capt. Clifton, of thejfirig Gratitude, was
alfe plundered by the sea robbers of his pro
visions andflores, no doubt would havefuffer
ed much more had not fh'tps of force been near
them, and they were glad to make their escape.
Charleston, September 19.
arrived. Days
Ship Carolina, Inglis, London 91,
The ftiip Carolina, capt. Inglis, left the
Downs the 26th July, and the Land's End,
July 17.
Federalist, Pratt, do. 1 74
ExtraSs from the log-book of the fljip Federal
ifl, capt. Pratt.
July 24, inlat. 44,6, and long. 15, W.
was-boarded by the French cr.rvette Che
beck, capt. Broufe, mounting 28 guns'," 5
days but from Bourdeaux—3fter detaining
us one hour to examine our papers, and
treating tis with the greatest poljtenefs, per
mitted us to proceed'. /
The Captain 6f the French corvette told
capt. Pratt, that American veflels were not
taken by the French, but by French Ame
ricans.
Augufcg, In lat. 33. 50 long. 32. 17.
W. was boarded by the English (hip Mo
hawk, captdin James' Baker; mounting 28
guns, out on cruize, who treated us pqlite
-1 ly and after detaining us two hours, permit
ted us to proceed.
Stptember 13. In lat. 34, 34. long) 70.
W. was boarded by the English frigate, To
paze, capt. Church, of 38 guns, frovn Hal
ifax, bound on a cruize, who supplied us 1
with two puncheons of water, and treated
us politely, and after* detaining us four
hours, permitted us to proceed.
Spoke several vessels who informed us,
that the French took every American vefTel
that they met.
Auchored yesterday off Fort Jnlinfton, the
(loop Pally, ; 19 days from Gonaives, and
the brig Julia, Hichliqrn. 33 days frem Surinam,
last from Martinique in pays.
The Jnlia was boarded 16 times on herpafi*-
age, by French and English privateers.'and was
fer.r Into Martinique by ' one of the latter and
acquitted.-
NASSAU, Sept. 1.
The General Nichols from Grenada, with
a number of negroes from 'that Island, arrived
here Monday, and has been ordered to depart
<js epfly asfhc can be supplied with water.
We learn by this vessel, that a body of Briti/h
troops had leen landed on the Spanish Main op- \
pyite to Trinidad ; and that the inhabitants of .
the coafl from the IVcflern entrance of the Gtilph i
of Paris to the river Oronoko, had submitted to
the Briiifh government, under the fame terms as j
were granted to the inhabitants of Trinidad. |
This acqpif/ion, however temporary, is, in ,
the preftnt Hiuatit/n, cm objld of the firfl impor
tance to our Wefl-India settlements. An inex- '
hauflable source of supply of horfts, cattle- isV.
is thereby obtained, and a great additional mar- •
let opened for the Br'ui/h manufofturts. j.
DE .TH.—A few f.nce, a free Black IVa 1
man named Venus IVatkins ; she came to this j
If}ani},from Jamaica al the beginning of the pre- j
sent century, had a perfeß .recolleSien of the
arrival, of Governor IVoods Rogers, and the
cxpulfion of ihe pirates. From avarieiy rf cih
cumjlanccs, it appears that the mujl hive reach■
cd Jhe great age of l?o.
September 8.
Tht fhr. Flying Fish, 7all, '.of this port*
was taken mlout three nneks ftnee on the coafl
n " of Chi a, Ly a Spanish V/ulty, after a fever*
ca'ion, in which cap!. 1 a'l was Med. The
C "P>"<» of'he galley and fix of his men, are afo
n- said to have been killed, and several ivauhtled.
w BALTIMORE, OAaber 5.
T* • _ 80-ARD ;f HEALTH.
id Burials in the Wcii part of Baltimore,
t : heretofore called the town, for'the feft 24
:1 hours, ending this morning at fun rife.
w Adults. Children.
_ 3 2
ts Burials in the east part called Fell's PoiiH,
&c. including the Potter's ,FiVld.
ar Aa\tis. Children.
~e 2. o
13 Jofeph- Townfend, clerk,
i.e October 5.
j: pi-hladelphia, "
ill f MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 9.
:o CITY HOSPITAL PREOUT,
is From 7th to Bth Oftobtr, in the morning,
it Admitted, since inft report,
d Mary M'Carty, Plumb street, between 2d
andjd ftrects. -
Axelina Smock, a few doors bevond ioth,
j. in Arch street,
>f £lizaheth M'Cane, Water, between South
,e and Almond street.
if Elizabetn O'Neal, George's, bet ween Plumb
arid Shippen streets.
Catharine Trotter, sc, Spruce street.
Henry (Black) 104, Front ittreet.
Catharine M'Coy, Second, near .Plumb
street.
Betsey Rowe, Third, between Plumb and
Shippen ftreefs.
m Remainiiig last report • 47
Admitted ftnee 3
'' Difbh'argtd _ o
f Died 0 Q
I! Remain in Hospital. | J
>e Six of wkom are dangerous.
' * ll fi" ce 'aft report.
? *rom city and suburbs 2
' Hospital 0 <
I Total ~
Stephen Giraed.
j (Signed) Caleb Lownes.
John Connelly.
Published by order of the Board,
WM. MONTGOMERY",
, Chairman pro tem.
CITY HOSPITAL REPqRT,
''j From Bth to 9th of October, in the mom.
Admitted since last report:
Mary Ellis, Morrifon's,- SoHth-ftreet, be- '
tween Front and Second.
Elizabeth Ellis/ (infant) ditto.
John Brswti, Plumb-street.
Dicharged, since last report.
• Joseph Mouchie, admitted 2d inft.
Died since last report:
s when admitted W[»<* pre
vioustoadmiilioti.
Jane Rusk, 4th inft. I day.
Michael Toy, 3d 1 day.
' Remaining last Report 55
Admitted liuci, 2
i- £
58
Difeharged 1
Died 2 3
Five of whom are dangerous.
Interred in Citv Hospital burying ground
. since last report
From the city and suburbs 3
From the city hospital - 2
Total £
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John Connbllx.
Published by order of the Board,
Wm. Montgomery,
Chairman pro tem.
Died] —Last evening, Mr. John Wilt
! cocks, an eminent Merchant of this City
To be Let, at a moderate -Rent,
T 'HE principal jiart of a HOUSE, within a
1 fhcyt ciillance of the C6ffee-houfe, which has
bi-en occupied for the last four months, confining
of a good dining room and parlour two bedrdomi
and a room, two garrets, kitchen, wood
vault and cellar, all in excellent oraer, fit for the
immediate reception of a small family. None need
apply hut tholewho are refpedahlt and regular
Enquire at the office of this Gazette.
O&obcr 9. dtf
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and Teneriffe Wine
• For Sale by
James Tard,
No. —,§outh Fourth-ttreet.
OA. 6. d^w
To be. Sold at Public Vendue,
(If uohPbfore dfp>fed of at private sale)
\ F?i'"iay, the frit of DccembV next, affix
! r V-f i'» jthe evening, at the. .Merchants' Ccf
j (re House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thon'and Nfine
j Hundred Snd Thir y Niwe H'ludrtcl acres of LAND,
now or late in the Cbun'yTjf VVafliing?on, avtdCom-
Imovweflth of Penhfylvania, and' - n waters of
F'cfh and Wheeling Crfeks and Ten Mile Rnn.~
These Lands z r c ferii'e and «el| timbered, and we e
* pajenrred < arly In except 3700, as or thcca-
s y which were pat.ned One fourth
» qf th • pmchafe mo'nrv to be p?iri atithe time of fa'e,
„ tor thcrefrdu? a credit cf one, t\vo and three months,
w i l be tjiven, on inrerelt and good kcurity.
1 October 6. 3:wtS
| To be Sold at Public Vendue,
I ' (If not before d'fpofed cf at private sale)
| f Fridax, firti day of Deccmbe.-, ai fix
j v_y o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant'C flee
,House, in Philadelphia, Twtnrv Six Se
van Hundred snd Eiohfy acres of,LA>jD, in the
.Sta'e ot New-Yoik, between the northern bounds
ofr I'ennf) lvania ana•fh- % u'quel*mna, jtow, or '
in the c* wnfhips of and Warren, and coti -
tV of Monrgomerv One fourth of the ?iwch»(e
monpv.' is.'-o bcr |>»aifl at the time m Cdle ; for ihe le
■(kluc a credit of one, two. antl three months Wul be
giv'", on interest and fecurit-,•
Qd'ioftc 6,. 33 \iSImported in tliefhipM an Chester,
Benjamin Siiewell, Mailer,
From Bordeaux, ami for I'aie by the lubfcriber,
No.' j i Walnut St'tet.
Bonrdcaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cases Entitled to
Ms ioc wine, in do.' Drawback,
taiiterne. do. do.
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufliele Liverpool fait.
Aug* 24: tut&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the hm»fe of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in th:: eiiy of Baltlnfore, on (he 25th
day of Oilober next, at 11 o'clock, A. -M
Al out fyven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Weltmifilter,
commonly called Little Wim heller, ( the turn
pike road runs through a confilerabre part of
these lands) the tra£l begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few
of find Keiiler's-town, and extends to the dif
tarie of about twenty-three milts from Balti
more, and lias on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to iour miles thereon. Will
b* fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
•hree hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tradV, !
feme cf them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr. fs.
Al SO
Atra&of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, withfti five miles of
B!aden(hurg, esteemed very gocd for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenlburgb, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
AL re,
A traft of land of about three hun
dred and thirty awes, within about two ipiles '
and a half or the President's hduf?in the, Fede- |
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, ?nd a fine
hi^:h j»rofpe<st, fron. which may be fceH the
city of Wafhingtcn, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria
and a part of' George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of B'adenfborg, will also (bew this land.
A liberal Credit will be given for the gjipteft
part of the purchase money, /he term» will
be made known on the day of fate.
May 8 W3IT.
just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Box. sof Spices, confiftir.g of <
Nutmegs, Clovcsand Mace
Foj- lale by
WILLINGS y FRANCIS,
Pcnn flreet.
May 30 dtf
f "
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING "bulled for some tinve pall in prepara
tions for removing into his prclf ut houf:, has
been under theneedfityof poftporiitlguntil thfsday
informing the geiitlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his fprii.g impomtton of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on
terms that he trulls will entitle him to the like pre
frcence he has experienced for Jeveral years pi ft.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion ever imported iato this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June 17. law 6w
< City Commissioners Office,
June 11, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feleil
and comrtion council*, pafled the aid day. of
May lall, appointing the city commissioners,
and prefcrihing (heir duties, feiftion stln
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifls,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commissioners, w hois to be individually
reiponfiblc for the clcanlinefs of the fame, and
are as follow-
Driftriifl NO.l. From the frwjth fide of -Ce
dar-street, to the north fide nfSpruce-ftreet, un
de ithe fuperistendence cf Nathan Boys.
3. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the fuper
jatendence of Hujh Roberts.
3. l>rm the north fidcof Walnut tothefbuth
fide of Hlgh-ftrcet, under the superintendence ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. Fr.»m ihe north fide of Iligh-ftrcpt,, to the
north fide of Mulberry flreet, under the super
intendence cf William Moulder.
5. From the north fjdeof Mulberry-street to
<he north fide of Vme-flrect, under !he super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common.
£5" A stated meeting of the city commission
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
llreet, every Tuesday evening it 5 o'clock.
July 14. eoim
Stands for Draymeti y &c.
. 7n pursuance cfan Ordinance from tbeSe/eft and <
Common Counc.h,bearing date theiid day of
April) 1797 providing for of
, City Comm jfontrs, ISc. Sect, the 15th.
r PTIE following places are fixed upon by the
A said City Commissioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
lii Vine-street, eaßward of Front-flreet, on
' both fides.
Saflafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-lltreets,
eiftwirdoj, Front-llreet, on the north ( fide only.
Mulberry-lire et» l'outh fide from Front to
Third-flreft.
I'ront-ftreet, east fide from Vine-flreet to
Elfiith't alley-
Front-flreet-t from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
'Waler-ftreet, weft ftde from ihe north end of
Stamper's or Moorr's stores to £ nf»ftreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-lar-ilreet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, call of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and Scuth llreets, eall of i'roat
street, south iide.
Dock-street, between Walnnt-flreet and the
fla - stone crossings, east tide, opposite George
Orklev's.
Second-fireet, between Saflfifras and Vine
ftre' ts, well fide.
Fifth-ftieet, east fide from Chcl'mlt to Mul
berry ftwefe.
Saffisfras-fti'ect, from Third to Fourth-ftrcet,
east IWfc- .
No dray or horse to "and within ten feet of
an sS S FOil n.iCKNET COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide iVom Fourth to Fifth
Fifth-flieet, between Chcl'nut and Walnut
ftieets, wtll. .
Biarich-ftreet, north Ctle,b:f.7Mn 1 bird and
Fourth llreets.
July 14- mw&tim
A Literary Trent'.
JuJJ puLli/hetl, tamlfdhui'y printed on -writin*
paper, price 1 dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
"j-'HE FORESTEItS, an AmericanTi|e ; being
JL a feijuel to the hiilory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, slluding to recent political
tranfailions in America.
Th*following extrail fiom the Clsvis Allsgorka,
(hews the priiKipal ch;iraclers that are introduced:
John Bull,theKingdom of Kngland
Hi ß Mother, theClurchof irgl.r.d
His Wife, the Par lnment
His Sifter Ptg, the of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the K ngdotn of France
H.is Mifttefs, tbaOld Conditution
His hi?w Wife, tne National Rcprofentation
I.ord Strrt, the of Spain
Nicholas Frog, tht Dutch Republic .
The Franks, the French Republic
The Fsreflers, the United States of Ameri<a :
Robert Lumber, New-Hampfaire
John Couline, Waffachitfetts 1 ,
Humphrey Plowshare; Conneilicut
Roger Cairier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-Yoik
Julius New-Jerfey
William BroaJbtiin, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewool, Virginia
His Grandson, Georje Walhington
Peter Pitch, Nerth Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia I
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Huijter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slavc»
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
This popular and entertaining satirical hiilo
ry of Amurica is attributed to the Rev. Dr-Bel
knap. It hasagreat (hare of originality and a
bonnds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the prefect time, and chwa&erifes those
late political trail factions which havf ca so
much uneasy* fs In America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
Sonth Second Street, and No. JO, Marke' ftaeet.
June z6. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. &P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market flreet,
HAV'E just received by the Wte arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the lauft ;ar.d most
approved 1 aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, formsthe most extensive collection ev
er offered for fa'e in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conneislicnsin Dublin, they are enabled to fclllrith
editions (as they have hitherto at the very
"lowed prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vcfey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1
I'eake's Cases at Hifi Prius ; Ridgeway's
in the time of Lord Hardwickt; Floyer's Probers
Pradice in the Ecclefiatlical Courts; Barton's
Trtatifc on a 3uit in Equity ; Tidd's Pracijite of
the #ourt of King's-Bench in Personal Anions, 3
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, IX vols. London etii
tipn.
H. and P. Rice ejpciSl ta re.ceive by the firfl ar
rival from New-York the ith vol. complete of
Du'rnford and Eafl's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's l.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number 'of
new publications.
June ib. ■ &
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the prefj, and will be publiihed,
wkh all convenient expedition, by Zicha
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-llrect,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be roceivcd, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to tbe printed propcfals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
Jul )' 'X- aawtf
S Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cb'fnm-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Bcatiy affortcd, very low on
ft-.ort credit.
March 6. r §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting-Houfc to No.
45, Soiith Fifth-ftreet.
r.uguft i. , w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carljle,
Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are rrqn -fted to tr.ke notice, that
the partnerlhip which has for fometimc f6b
fiftcd betwesn Mathias Slough of Lancafkr, and
William Geer, is now diffolvcd : b»t, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je£l from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 291J1
December last. a recital of which is Rot now deem
ed necelfary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumstantially infarmed of the merits of
this hufinefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ®f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippeirf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous fuppnrt the.
public were plcaOd to confer oil the sirst s effort in
this bnfinefs, V» ill jam Geer, tn conjunftion with
Mefi'rs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determmed
to prosecute and carry it on, with every c*:i'c, at
tention anddil'patch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
TKe above company, Who are amply provjdrd
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance'to
render the pafiage fafe and commodious, intprm
those w(nu wifii to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they ran take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaftcr, Harfifljurg,
Carlisle and Shippcr.fourg. The fjire as hitherto
eftablilhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the houft
of Samtitl Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland ceuuty, every Thurlday,
and return from thcoce and an'jvi at Kaiiifburg
every Satyr'sy.fo tkat palfe-ngeis d. ilihed for
I.ancafter or Philadelphia, may proceed 011 Mon
days. '
WILL?AM GEER.
lancaftcr, Jar. 27, 1797.
N. 13 Tkis Li.r.e of. Stages starts ft'Ctn" tht
house of William I'crrcc, in Lanca"ir, on every
Tpelday ai;d Saturday mdrnir.g at 6 oVIo.V. pro
ceeding to (lie wtftwaid; 'alic! Irom houfe of
sir. Samuel £Ui: l in Harnftiu'tg evciv W»dnef-
Jay morning, or. the fame evcrtiue arrive* at Pa
trick Cod.ian'i 111 Shijipeufburg, icd returns
from thepce 0:1 every 1 hui IVay : pcrlormirg the
fame routine l dailj ai in its tour frcm Philadel
phia. imvf
TO BE SOLD,
Aid pojj'ejian gitkn immediaiely f
A I.AROE twoilory brick Himlcjhandfo'mcly
situated in Princeton, Ther'are four rooms
and a large.etitry on each floor, and five rooms in
the gurtt-, a range of back Iraildings »jl feet in
ltngth, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen gat-den, at the
farther 'end of which are a car; iuge house and two
fiables, one of which is pew, 44 feet long, with
I Calls in the two flaVles for 27 hories. The heal
thiness and pleafantncfs of itr, situation. and the
uumbcr ef genteel and agrjeable families in and
near the town, reader it a dtfirable retrceat for a
gentleman from the city. Ihe commodioufnefs of
the house, its central pontion, and the largenafs of
the stables, make (tjovery wiy.fuitablefor a tavern, for
. which it ha,, a'wayf i>ren confiderd as a capital
.laad. Inquire <Jii rhe premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Prircttrm, Ang. 25. 29 —drwiawtf
N O 1 I C I. "
IF T«Er»y O'Haha, wVio fonie years since kept
School at the Nine Bridge*, (Queen's County, Eas
tern Shor,«, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or writs to, th: Rev. Ambrof?
Marihal, ijear v \yarwic)c, Cecil County, Eailern
Shore, from whom he will receive in
■terefting int'oraiatioiJ.
Auerujl 4. ' ' nrw&fijw
City or VValhirigton.
. S CHEME
Of the Lottery, No. JI,
Far the Improvement of the Federal City.
A raaguificentdwelliirj-houfc ao,ooo dollars,
& cafil are - 50,000
I ditto Jit ca*% 25,00» 40,000
j ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 jo, 000
1. ditto 10,000 k c«fli id,ooo. 10,000
I ditto 5,000 U. tifh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & eaih 5,000 10,t>oo
j cai\ prize of 10,000
t do. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000
10 do. l|Oup - - 10,00 c
»p do. job. ' - - jo.ooo
00 do. jori - - 10,600
100 do. 1 ' JjjiL 10,000
400 dA. r 'if - 10,000
l,co<j - »0,000
lf,co& do. 10 - »5i»,ooo
'61739 Prizes.
J3,'lsi B'uilis.
50,000 Tickett, at Eight Dollari, 400,00b
N. B. Tofirotir thofc who may take » quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
thr<..«iT drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
hut on* :
And approved notes, feeuring payment in either
monsy orpriiet, in ten days alter drawing, will
be rccaivcd foi anytiumbcr net less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elogapt fpecimeo ef
rhepritatt buitdhgs.to be ertAed in the City of
Walhingron-—Two beautiful designs ere already
(circled fqr the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from theio drawiag*- it ispropofed toered
two tentretiud.'tw corner buildings as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when eomylcte.'to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner defcrihtd in the fchetr.e for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dednflion of five per cent.
he made to defray the ncccJfary ezpenfes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intenwed for the Narianal Univcrfity, to
be erccled withirt the city of U'aflungtod.
The real fecuritie(igi»en for the paymont of the
Prizes, are laid by rhe Prefideflt ana two Direct
ors of the JJaiiV of ■Columbia, and are vslncd at
more than hats the amount 0/ the lottery.
S.iM'JSL BLODCET.
,§, Tieketinray le had at the Dank of Colsm-
Ui ; of James V.'clt & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ' of Ja'iß Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Ric*ard W»!ls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
From the Herald.
. caution;-
"\TTII!!ItEA l > a combination of men in this
VV county have undertaken to enrich thsm
felve«',by fahtieatingtirles to sundry valuable trafls
<(f land, the pinpersy of gehtlemni living in New
Yoik, l'hila»!»ljit<ia, London and ltris, for which
traits of It lid lorge funis ot money h*ve been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purthafers ■
It is therefore just that public information should
te given, tor the end, that the injuredmay feckre
drefs while the men have property, and arc to be
found. Those who have been discovered are Tr
uman Harrifoti, J .feph Witeomb, fnid now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly ard
several others who go under fi&itioua names. It is
supposed that the lands offered fcr fa'e on those fa
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thotifand
dollars. Such it we have aihial knowledge of afe
as follows 1 Lots No. 11 and 11, Otfego patent,
thousand acres each, the property of William
DellWyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64.
fame patent, thoufam! acres catfi, the property of
Mi. Cfiauiilr.nV, ttoyft of Sarfs,' alid lames Avefill
and others, ot ihi| State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charlcs'Whartcn, of Philadelphia, are uh !er their
management. Printers will do well to give
thi« a place in their papers, as well to cautioh the
puhlicagainft purflhafing th. fe lands, as alio to de
prive those men miulurefrom impoliug on indivi
ilu fs, which their education and addrels have en
abled thec» todo hcrefot'ore. Wit'comb has been
a shopkeeper of foms note in this country.
The following affidavits will fct in a cleaf point
of view the Wick4ducfsof thplt men, which \yhcn
the public have perused, will kidujii them to ex
cuse the interference oi W.m. COOPEA.
Otfego, July 28th, 1757.
I Thomas Kclly„qf theCountv of Ot£e<?o, hav
ing been led into ail error, by John Witcomb and
''Cruman Harnfony of the fame to sign a
deed to them, fcr lot No. 58, OJijjo patent, which
was tjhe property of Willittm t • Franklin now Mr.
Chjirto'hf s and others; Mid furth<4 the said Joseph
and Triiman did perTuade me to do this rgainft my
incliiiitiiin, whicK was made out on the icth day
of Nove&ber,
1*93, «^ r set back two years so as
to briflglt to thst finie'; m«f further the name of
Pardon Starks tb that deed Was a fictitious nanis,
there being no fticli perlon there. To rhis I m;tke
voluntary oarti. ' THOMAS KiELLV.
19th July, f79>.
On the jtjth Jl.ty, 1'7517, came pcrfoually before
trie, Thpirian Kelly, the luifcribcr to the above af
fidavit, arjtJ made fohiJiiii oath that it contains noth
ing tilt til; fr4*K. "V "
EI IWIJ Jufticc of the Peace.
On tliy 1 ifch Julys 17V7. eame before me Jacob
Kibby, a perfuo by nteWfl known and worthy of
good credit, who c.n Di 1 . solemn oath did fay, that
two ps the partie? atuvementioned did make ap
plication to him this depofvent,. foir.e time in the
winter of 1796, to make th?ni a deed for two thou
sand acr«s of laud in the. O tego patent, and pro-
V.ifed tins deponent a fliarc of the profits on the
sale of said lands, fcr his so doing ; and th t they,
made application several times for thefame purpo ef
which iirvicss this dep.pnen# as often rei'ul'ed, de
claring to them thr the hail no rigfit to lands; and
could do no such tiling ; -which darir.g attempt 011
this deponent's integrity he had related among hi.
friends several dates, previous ta this affi
davit JACUa KlDiiiA'.
Sworn before me,
ELIHU P-KfyNli 1 /, Juftkf cf the Peace.
Auj-i 3. " JIW4W.
This Day Publilhed,
Anciib be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG./coriKsr of
Second AndChelnut streets,
Fries ytlbs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained No. V ;irid VI of
" The Hiilory of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the cjjaruk of speculation ngainit
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SE"Chetahip of 111 e Treasury, is FUJLLY
REit/TKD.
IV RIT TE N DT UIMSF. I?.
Th»"s publication profits a cencde ftatcmetft
of the hafe means by the jacobin* of the
Un;t,ed. States to afperie the chara&ers of those
pwrfons who arc coniiikn- j hollife to disor
ganizing jchtmes. It alio conuiv.s the o>r
refpondeoce between Mr.. Hamiiron a;:J \lcfirs.
Monroe, Mtihleehurgti- end VeqafcV, on rhe ftib
jcCt of the documents aiorefaid, and a Lrits of let
ters from Jimes Reynolds and'hl* wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
Was the result of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter and hi* afTociates to extort money.
A difcoun* of one third fropi the-retail price
will ,bc made in favor of wholesale purthsfcri, for
cash. Orders to be addrdled to Mr Young.
Aucr ltd Is. 1
iNo. 1 Sc.
D'flrid of Pennfyhtania, to -wit :
(l. s.) R E 1j REMEMBERED, tl.it on the
-1-) twsfKy fixtli day of July, in the twen
ty feconJ year of the independence of the United
States of America, John FenjJo, of ike said dif
tri&.hath deposited in t his office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims a3 proprietor, in the
words following, io wit:—
'* Ohfervations on eertaivi documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of *' The Hiflpry of the Unit
" ed State? for the yea# 1796," in which the charge
" of fpcculatinn, again!? Alexander Hamilton, lute
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfeif "
In conformity 10' he ait of the Cotigrefs of the
Ucitfd State?, intituled, " An ail for theencour- 1
agement of learnftig, by feetiring the copies of
map?, charts and booKs to the authors and propri
etors of furh copies, during tha t.mcs therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWigUL.
CUrk cf the 1 >jtr:cl of ® awj'. '\jnii,
July 27. ' W4W
The Inhabitants of the Diftridt
of Southwark,
RF. informed that a Coaches is provided, to be
L U. kept at the ConlhMc,' office, the sorth east
corner of Front and Almond fljeets, -where the
friends of those sick perfont who- deflre to be re
moved to the, City Hospital, are requefled to make
application—Alio, a Hcarfe will be kept in readi
ng's for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.— The Poor, who wish to remove to the
T tnts on Schuylkill, may be furniflisd with orders
by applying as aSbVe. Aug. It)
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
Nq. 64 south Second-?teet.
TICKETS in t'ne (ianat Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 19th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets Will rife in propor
tion as tht dnwing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five tirft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on tiff Infk day of
drawinj-
Check Books kept for examination and regifler
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of WaSiington, No.
», ar.d Paterfon Lotteries.
Alio, tickets for Tale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk otmen lotteries, which will begin
di awing in the courfe-odNthe summer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Note*, Lands. &c- &c. tratifafted with the
utmost attention.
June 1 tu&f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
Dy ROBERT CAMPBKfcL. H Co.
No 40 South Second ftrett,
[Crice 31 Cents]'
A View of the Caxifss and Confeqi/en
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskine.
May ij §
SfslTE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Young, Book feller,
- cond-ilrcct,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
ClONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
-4 al of Francis I loplrinfon, Jadge of the Court of
A dfitirairy, and John Nkholfon, Ccmpcrollcr Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, ft
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aflcrtmentof
Rooln. Also, Stationary, retail and by the
cg*t well afioned,apd entitled to the drawback il
July 7 —•
For Sale,
That well known place, culled Vandkqrift'i
s. t r r » v,
ON Nelhareiny creek, 18 miles from Philj
ladelphia, on the New York port road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
presnifes are a Urge two ttury stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story Hone kit
chen, a large frame liable with j £.ord threlhir.g
floor, and I'ome out buildings—alio a well of
good water, and an excellent ke Uoufe. On
this place is a mof! elegant Caution fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a vi«w of the Nefham
iny to its.junflion wiih t'.c Deiawafe, and thence
across to the Jersey (hore. ft hnsthe privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sabfcriber,
MORDJiCA.I LpVVIS,
V»v ja. jtiwtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GUOOM-BRIDGE with macb pleaf
ureand retarr.s lx-r sincere ac
knowledgement fpr the liberal encouragement
ffie hat received during foyr ) ear* retiJ.enee in
Philadelphia ; and allures her frtends and the
public, so far from intending t > decline her
fchpol, she has made a lupertor aw ange.iunt fur
| the more conveqicu: ji\'onima<l*:;on of her
' fcljolars.—Every branch of ufeftii' and polite
educati«n is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mafias excWlitig in their
refpeilive pro£effior.s. 1
Come? of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, (
The fituatiuti is perfr Jlly
more dgre»ableby an e*tenlive garden and lot
of grcund ad;Qiuing thq house.
fi'ji Pubtifbed,
Ard to behsU.fcf Meffr:. DoMbn, Campbell,Rice,
Gary, and the other Booksellers id the
city,price one dollar, twicty-f:ve cents.in boards,
New *Viev/s of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, si. u.
jane ;c.
Rofs y Simjon,
H/.Ve I-or sale-
C Mogflicads,
Excellent Cofllc inj Tierces, ami
C Barrels.
A (rar.ll parcel ps nice cocoa in bags
a few puncheons Jamaica spirit?, fourth prool
Superior TeWrifFee wine, old an ' in M ideiraprje*
An invoice of jewellery and fmficry to be fold by
the package
A few el bed En liih ckeefe.
T" : " *7. d;f.
The Subfcribcr has for Sale,
A large aflbrtment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
Tncfia Calicoes '
Sooty Rom aJ Is
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red artd'Giltt Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irish Linen*and Sheeting?, weß
a Sor ted N - '■
A'joxof Dit pert
• l >l ' Hmbrellas
1 wo boxes of fine Spices, cotaiiiing Nutmeg
Mace aqd CJoves
oracle Pepper of firft quality
Ea(): India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditfo of G.iu
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis*
.. T I. > '
Higgins' Specific
FOR THB
PREVENTION AN!> CURE OF the
. YELLOW FEVER.
fince this disease made fucb ravafn?sifi thin
-l_j city and New-York, the author h»» frirned hit
attention to itscaures a»d cure.—The result of his
enquiries has convinced him that the reason wKy so ■'
few persons recover from its attacks, art; frem its
not being well understood, and the confcquent
wrong method taken to cure it. Ho is nerfuaded
that thr excefiuve bleedigrs and unercnnrl reatmest
of the Faculty is highly injurious and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment ishy theufs of prop, r
acids. Co-.vuice los this he offers his Speiifit as a
certain riihedy.if used according to the dire&ioßs.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each. of the
inventor Gm. Higtiu, Cherry (lreet,two doorsa
liove Ninth (Ireet, (late manager of Jaeltfon and
Co's Medicine Warehouse, London); by y.lc
klane. No. 2' 6 ; JV. Griffith, No. 177, i T. jfttarce. No.
41, South Third ftre't, T. Stiff, No. New (Ireet,
near Vine street, and J. Gala, No. 36, Rice flreet.
All". 25. tuths 3t
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. Griffiths, No. i 7South.
Second-flreet, s fpefc supply of
Gentiine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge as aßotnnift procured him
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) »r.d w
•onfidered in England as a serf ant cure for the above
complaints; it isalfo of lingular efficacy isj the
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stoics, No.
6f, South Second-street, and V. Stif>, 55, New
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents ejeh.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the hrappy ef
fect of the medicine, (several cases of aures' hav
ing pome within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for ft has induced him to order large
fupp'y. a P»ft of which he has just received.
Au V'Pl-
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN awa" on Scturday !aft, two indented Str
vants, Gi&rd Dally, a mulatto boy, about 17
years of age, a flint light built active Kiiow, can
»ead and write,live feet seven or eigbtlacf i s hHi'h,
has a heavy countefi&Bce; hid on a fuftian coatee
and trowf.rs, a liigh crowned kal, fin.- flioo,- See.
AD»!i Kellons, a black man, afcout 24 years of
ag«, five fce» seven or eight ipcheshigh.atliick set
.clufify built f-illew, particularly about the br-vch;
hard on a sailor's blue jackft iined with fwanflci...
dark striped vest, fuftiau trowfers, hjgb crownefl
J:at, coarse ihoes, .; «ach of them had several
fliirts and several other cloathcs with theui. '1
t y Dpllars will be paid for the runaways, or I ? dol
lars for eHMj, and on delivering
them at. No. 54, Nofth Third-street.
i'bi! hlark fellow is about a'year from I.ewis
Town, in the County of SulTex, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
j u *y 31- / rotufrf3w
To be SOL Dor RENTED, '
\ LA RGR 3 Story Brick Honfe, on the
-L \ Sooith fide of fiilbert ftieet, betwesn
liightji and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor Getieral's Office.
The Iti.'ildlng'ia 36 feet front and 35 feet de«p,
the lot lie feet deep, with thc ( privilege of a nine
feit wide Alley extending" the whole length of
tUe lot, to a thirty feet w.de Court for Carriuges
1 10 turn in. The House is not ulaflercd, and
tnay be turned eii'icr into one, or two cKvellinfr
Houfcs. It is luitable for a Jarge ManiifJdlor y,
or would make a' good Tavern. Immediate
pefleffion will lie given.
Apply to No. 111, Chefn'it-Street.
*"iT. eod^t.
Muftcal lnjiru'ment Manufactory,
Not 167, Areh-Strtcl.
HARPER, harpfi:hord, grand, porttble jrra>d,
fid'-hoard, pier table and fquu-j pia; o tci-.e
rfiakc r frfcrj Lcndt-n, returns thanks to his lrier.dS«
and the public, frr their liberal <-ncoura;en:er.t,
and hopes that by his alli' uity and atrtntim to ev
ery branch qf his buf:r.efs, to a eric a t&ruiiuanfft
of their fuvors. Piano fortes made 011 th» newelt
and nicft approved pl/ns, with p. dalt, pates',
f-AeJl. ;i:d French harp flop, which hctHfteis
hiir.feli will i»f found 011 trial by unprejudiced
jiidges, to be eqnal if not superior co any import*
ed, an 1 twenty per cent 1 hearer. Aity infiru
nv-nt purchased .tw, 1 , it not approved cf ia
t»Vt Ive months, he will exchange.
N. L. Allkin<l*cf Millie.-1 iidh'un-nnts r.ladi>,
lined, and repairee the greate£l accuracy,
dii'patih, and en the moil ii.aloia'ble term-, K.p
ready 1 loney only. .
Sfcoi.d Vnd i'i.ino Fortes taken in escharge.
May »... gti r.'ii.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away frmn the f.bfcriber on tiie Tec]
ond day of this in(l. July, a Mulatto Mam,
named V»'iil Uowzer, aboiJt forty years of age,
five feet l'even Or eight inches high, raifier
chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, ilriped purple trowfers
and jacket. It is probable'he will change his
clothes, a 9 be took a number wilh him. The
faiil fellow formerly belonged to Char!e»
Ulake of this place ; jr.il it is expected he has
, nude towards Jones's Neck, in tl/e Delaw are
State.—Ant person apprehendmg the f«id fel
low, and fecnring hini so that I cjn him a.
gain, thall receive the above reward if taken
cut of the county, ard Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
home.
-JESSE REED,
Qii«en Ana's County, Maryland.
July-3. " wjt
Jul 7-3