ette of tijc tUlltteU and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
;j? tc;16.3
For Boftpr?,
j The Schooner
Jife s A h l y,
K/ -•' Asa Scui>i>i?r, Maftsr,
B UOW lying at Chefnut-llv't wharf ; will fail
Dk. a For freight or pnfiai|tL'r|sr»tf
■ tli* Certain on board, or to
f Joteph Anthoiyw '&? Co.
For Sale on boated fatd Snootier,
A few barrels of flat MACKARKL.
JMy '.!• * Jt
"erfoo# having freight on board the fa id fchoo
3ri - d.-fir.-d to call immediately for th" fame.
For Amsterdam. T
the SHI?
Four Friends,
JottPß Glenn, Mailer ;
ILL fail with all convenient fpeed,the grea
t-r part 0/ her cargo being ready. For
Ueight or passage apply to the captain or.board, or
Jeffs y Rob. Wain.
J" : X n- " • 4 f
For Hamburgh,
C H aTLOT T E,
' -V;-«CL C. F. Eawnberger, Mctfler *
be ready to receive the cargo in a fe-vy
▼ V days, and is a faft failing" ftauoch, good vef
fc), well feumi—-For freight "or passage, apply to
George
No, 103, Marlet-Jlreet.
- 32W3W
L A N D I N G, **
At Walnut-firctt wharf, from on bond ship Man
chcfter, Benjj. Shewell, matter, from Beurdeiux,
Bnurdeanx Brandy-
Old Claret in bhds.
Medoc Wine in cases
Sauterne do. do.
, For Sale by
ihomas Murgatroy j,
Na. 11, Ifalwt-ftrect.
Said Ship for Freight or Charter,
( Burthfn 180 ton*, Philadelphia
built of Oalc and Cedar, *yill
lie ready to fail in a few dayi-.
•*' ; : H4& Apply as above.
_ July " rows
For Sale,
The fine and remarkablyfaft
A*. failing Schooner
F' r S* n '4 an d Philadelphia
Burthen aoout 100 tons. For terms apply to
Ro/s & Sim/on.
June 1 a. dtf
' Laji Exhibition
IN the great Dancing Room of Mr. M'Doueall,
South Fourth-flreet, between Chefnut and Wal
nut Arr et, at 8 o'clock in the evening.
The Automaton! which have excited the admi
ration of the connoifleurs, wi labfolutely leave for
ever their astonishing exerciles, ou Friday the 2td
of thi* mosth. After the experiments of natural
1 philosophy, the artificial lady v/ill exhibit several j
fire works without powdtT or fpaell.
Entrance half a dollar—Children half price. {
n- ;awtit
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co. i
No. 8 Cbefnut-Street, 1
Have for Sale «
KIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on 1
fhrrt credit.
March 6. §
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for faleby John Morton, No. 116, South
Front- street,
Hvfon
. Hyfbn Skin Ctp 4 c
Young Hyson r ltAb
Imperial J
eotf j
The Shareholders
Of tl]i Pennsylvania Population Company, '
ARE requested to meet the Company's Of- a
sice, No $3, Nortji Fourth Street, on Saturday
the 15th inft. at o'clock.
B/order of thf Board,
SOLOMON MARACHE, Sec'ry.
i. fr6t. j
T O B E SOL D,
valuable three story Brick House ;
fcITATE in Lodge alley, next toihebankof
the lot on which it Hand;, ts-
the vacant lot adjoining, which ex-
Tbe house is about 50
*■ nv. lIMUIW JO HUUUI
it ?n Jypdge allfy, and about 42 ft^t
ijing lot is about 96 feet
and 42 feet 011 Goforth
vhich leads from Chefnut
■y into Dcck-ilreet at the
toufe consists of ten lodg
. fire two dining
forty feet in length, the
>ur feet, each containing
parlours and a large kit
cellars under, and garrets
irivilege of a vacant lot
ward between this house
) of excellent water in the
azza fronting the vacant
le and dwelling house on
: prerjnifes now rent for
To Le fold clear of all in
"John Clement Stacker.
3*wtf
1 for young Ladies.
with much pleas
, retyrr.s her sincere ac
he liberal eneouragemest
p; four years relidence in
■ures her friends and the
intending to decline her
superior arrangemsnt for
accoipnjodaticm of her
ich of ufeful and polite
ly attended to by Mrs.
-iafter ( s excelling in their
: 3nd Eleventh Streets.
sxmftf
eiflly healthy ; and made
LXte;|f;ve garden and lot
e house.
P 111 LitDhL PH/ A : WEDNESDAY JULY 19, tpfo:
Federal-Street Theatre*
NO riCli is hereby tnat the Trudees
of the Barton l lieifre, wilf receiye. Propo
f.i!s from any pi rfun, or cmvijjaay, for the leife
of the 1 theatre jn Federal for a term not
rail excfC'Un}; five rear*.
S,tfo, to be Li, Tly Dwelling Hcufc
of the lame buildinij, rr..i the ce lar under the
fame. For tertr.s of (mfr. iininre (>f
THOMAS BARTLETT, ■Pro'j Clk.
Bolton, July j. tii 4 t
C A U T i ON.
—"\X7"HEKEAS Richard Lakh has been at
j V\ tempting to fell a certain mtfTuagcor tee
( ciTient and lot of ground, situated on the south
j lidc 01 Vme-jltreet, in the city of Philadelphia
coinaiiiirj;; in breadth, on Vine-flreet. fix'een
, fret, and in depih, fcuihward, feveuty f.vs feet,
ea- bounded on tiie north fide by Vine-Ilteet, on
or | theeafl by ground late of Sani'iel Rlindes and
or ! Sarah his wife, on the f.ju:h by ground late of
I Jo.ir. Pemb.'. ton, and on thcw. f) by another lot
; tiien ahou; to l-e grantt-d to Jolqih Hu!::igs—
__ This is therefore to caution all peri Vms ag.ioS
, purcha!:i:j_; the above deilrifced property, the
: fame having bean by the said Kich
, i La»o 10 AViiliaio Spade
, SARAH SPADE.
r _ . J Ul )' '4- eoiw
y ,' j 'f *I- Members oT the Society of the Sor.sof St.
JL Gi.okoe, eilabliihed at Philadelphia, fertile
Advice and ot Englifimien in Diftrcfs, are
requeued to attend a Qnarteriy Mceticg a the fiid
Society, at the City Tavern, on Monday the 24th
of July, at 7 o'clock in theEveniDg.
GhOKGB DAVIS.
N.B. Sev.-ral Members to be balloted fsr.
n- Ji*ly 14-
b _
LANDING,
AT South-flr<"ct Wharf, from on board fehoon
ep Expedicior, capraia Harding Williams,
from St.Thomas, a Cargo of
Coffee, and Rum.
For Sale by
F. Ccppinger,
A"o. 221, South Frontflre;t.
J.lly 10. ' § lo t
Wants Fniployment,
IN a Hore, a Man whs can be well recommend
ed, writes a gopd hand, and understands ac
[j totppts. A pply at No. 50, North Fifth Street, and
Cherry-alley. Any reputable place will fyit.
a J u| y XO- *3«
3 A Wet Nurse Wanted.
A Healthy Woman witl) a good breast of
milk, may hear of a place by applying at ■
- the Printing Office of this paper. 1
July 10. *3t 1
Health-Office, Philadelphia, "jth June, 1797. \
r | 'HE Board of Health offer to rem out the N.f".W
; 1 CITY KOSl'l f AL, usually called The IVig- \
' vjam. -
I It may be occupied as a Tavern, for which there ,
j ars excellent accommodations. The perfou taking ,
it mull be capably and willing to ail in the capaci- ,
ty of a Steward; ia cafe a eontageous djfeafe in ,
the city, ftnnlj at any time rinder it necefliry to ,
. make use f f the ptemifes as aHofpital. it cannot
therefore 6« let for any limited time—and the red t
oainted frame building is to b? refer ved.
in writing will be received at this office, 1! a ting (
what reut will be allowed under the foregoing cir"- (
cumftauces. None need apply without being (
1 to produce the best recommendations.
JOHN MILLER K J ¥ n.
Chairman of the Beard of Health.
Jul/8 j
' POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, 6th July, '97.
THE mail for lYcw Cq/tle, Cant=ujctl's L/Mge,
Duck Creek erofs roads, Dover, Frederica, Mil
ford, Oeorge Toivi (in the • lace ofCtqu/ei) and '
Dagfborough, in Delaware ; Trap and Snow
bill, in Maryland ; Horri Town, 4(carna(k"C h
H. and Northampton C. H- in Virginia ; y.i/1 g
be clofedevery Monday, H'ednefday,a>id Friday, tl
atfunfrt. ,8t t<
in
Georgetown Bridge Company, t
Extras of an i£l passed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland 011 the 19th December, l c
1791, entitled, "An ail for ereiling a bridge al
over Potowmac river. tl
'• ylnu be it enalied, that the fa id directors or
any two «f them ihall and may require any lum
or sums of money in equal proportion from each "
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be ijeceflary for carrying on the building of said
bridge; and after giving three months public <jj
notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the direifl- ec
tors to sue for aild rgcover'in the nam« of tlje ih
company such unpjid requilition, with all colli fu
and charges incidental thereto, and legal I-terell
thereof from the time the fame Ihould
been paid: And theneglecft op refufal to pay any IVI
such requisition after public notice (hall have
been given at least for three months in all the
ein before enumerated, (hall Jiave ih
tbe efft 'l to forfeit ail preceding payments made by
on the (hare or (hares 1~0 uegleiltd or refufed to de
be.p?id t?> tbe use and benefit of the company." cu
nmjon of fuchcf the Hockholders as have not 4 U
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they a;e 13 follow: On the ift November, ' f n
179J, ao dollar?, on die 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the 20th July, 1796, 40dollars ;on tel
tfie ift S«ptember, 1796, 40 dollars, and on tbe t hi
ill November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is ha
now giv?n that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise- wl
[ ment fthree months) the law will be carried tre
into rigid and complete eiFe& against all delin- '"i
quents. ■ ' ~ '
By order of the Diredlors,
WALTER SMITH, Trtafurer. gel
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. ia»'3m am
-A, ; !•»
Ycuno Hvfon Tea. t
P An
40 chests of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do.of 'Hyson, '
Imported in the^ll'oodrop Sims, and for f.ile by JO:
the fublcribers, corner of Second and Pine „f
street. bli
C. Hai -kl. -
June it," •TOts 1
By John Fenno, N°- ii 9 Cbejnut Street.
/ 250 Barrels
ees Cannetlicnt Herrings, aud 250 hirrsk of Beef,
T /^,' Sale ° n br ' ard ti,c rrudcnce.CVooi!
Ed E.lht Whan—or by
,ot . ' EZEKIEI HALL,
art JVy_ r< ' - I'Vh^f. 1 ' Vh^ f .
Curious & F.legant RepreiMUatioxis
11. 0/a c
R PT v 4|R«eTV Of BIP.D?, I
In vj'hich, their »«ai cxvmagi is prffcrvei and
w..;ch are fold as cheap as co nmo-j prints, by
JOHN ORMROD, '
. , No. 41, Chefnut Street,
at- .T"') - - i.e.
" Will iam Blackburn/'
en lottery and BUOKER'S OFFICE
of r r south S<cood ltfi et
pn J 'CKrTS in the Canal Lotteiy, No 11, which
id c-fr commen * e<l drawing the 29th May, FOR
'„f " ,Thc P"fe of tickets wiil rife in propor
tion r. 3 th" t'r iwing advances, particularly 011 rc
™ c«»nt ot the live firft draw., tickets, prizes cf
.cur thuular.d dollar, each, on the last da* oi
Cl'aWiUjr. ' - '
tie Check Books kept for examination and reeiftcr
h- mg'. in the Canal. No.*, City oi Washington, No.
2, ai.a Lotteries.
Alio, ti. ltets for iaie in the Schuylkill bridge and
lerkomen Br.dge lotteries, which will bct-:n
drawing in the ceurfe of the summer.
"• d -m ° f 3 Broker in all linds °f *ock,
i!e Bill. Note., Lands, 4t C - &c. trj-laaed with toe
re utmost ;-;t(.-atien.
1(1 tn&f
.h : :
! he Comnjiffioners
"L m OR carryinsj into efl"c4V the finch article of the
1 ao '" t 7 ,co ™ mer ® c navigation, con
duced between his 3ritjnnicn,aj.cfty and theUr.ited
itatesc. America, en the 19th day of November,
1794, having this day constituted their Board,
pursuant and agreeably to the fuid treaty, do here
by g lve notice, that they are ready to proceed to '
s, business accordingly , nt j t h cy de | ire t all d;iims
uni.er the said article (which so far the fame de
fcn. es the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with- 1
out delay.
fhey further desire that all such claims may not I
only state in what manner the fevcrjl cases come
within the defeription of the said artide, but also <
- specially ft t forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpeitively undertake tofub- f
ftantiate the fame. .
_ Extract from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledgcd by divers Britilh mer- /
" chants, and ethers his majeftj's fubjefis, that
" debts to a confidcrable amount, which were bona
", fide contra&ol, before the peace, ftlll remain .
_ " owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of the
* United States; and that by the operation of va
" rious lawful jnipediijrcnts, since 'the not "
, " only the fuil recovery of the said debts has been
" delayed, but also the value and security thereof
have been in inftances ioipaired aRd leflT
" cued, Jo that by the ordinary courfis of judicial e
" proceedings, the Britilh creditors cannot now
" obtain and aftually have and receive full and a
adequate compensation for the lolT-s and dama
r " gcs.ivhich tXKy have thereby fufained: It is a
. 11 greedthat in all such cases where full compenfa- fl
" tion for such losses and damages cannot for what
. ever reason hc a-flu-illy obtained, f|
by the said creditors in the ordinapy
. " of justice, the United States will make full and c
( " complete for the to the said
( " creditors: hut it is diftin&ly understood, that -1
t " *-h>t proyifion is to extend to such lefts only a; }
I " tavc been occafioped by the Uwfy! impediments
f " aforefaid, an 4is not to extend :o lofios occasion- '
p " ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other •
' " causes, as would equally have operattd to pro
, **, ducc such loss, if the said impediments had not J
u ®*ffted } upr to such loffss or damages r.s have w
been occafioncd by the manilgft delay, crnegli- re
'• fccucc, or wilful omifiion of the claimant." pi
order of the Board y I
GRIFFITH EVANS, Jt
Secretary.
Philadelphia, CommilSoners' Office, •
l<o. 3 fouthSij(th street. May ij,
'w- ■ ;
1 I yfcSUBBCRIB£R having been spnoin ed by
L the F.nvoy hxsriOldiruty and Mioriler Pleni- tic
potent!3ryof dii»Brita»nic Majelty, GenrraJ Hgent ail
lor affittmg British creditors, and such particular a= tw
gents as they may fpeciallv authorize, in prolrcu::ng
their claims before tbe forcarryiug uS
to etfift the tixih article ot tlje Trtafy of jfmity, Cess.
ntrctewd Navigation between his Britannic Aand
the United Styes if America, hereby gives notice that
he has opened his office at bit house the south east T<
coiwr of Chefnut and fifth OieetSj Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive qll claims or inlkuilions
for claims with the voucbeis aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fatne agroc
ablv so the rules and orders which the boaid may
think proper to prescribe. till
And as it will be for the iniereft of all concerned, lyi
that the several claims be so Hated, and support- col
ed, as to prevent the delay which woutd ari(e from I pjj
the oecelTuyof obtaining further inferpiation, pc ad- (ht
ditional materials,from persons rcfiding at aduUnce, £ f
the general agent thinks it his duty to add! (for the r
dire£lion chiefly of thofc, who, not having employ 0
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of tar
their daims to his charge and management) that all rac
such claims ought in pellicular to fee forth— riv
tft. The proper defcrip ion and fitoation of the be
creditor or claimant, and original debtor, refpeft- thr
ivel y- , tio:
ad. The date andnature of the original contractor s ot)
debt. .
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant wi-s prevented or impeded,
by (he provifton, operation, or defect ot law, the A
deciftons and practice of courts } or rrlhaint of exe- j an
cutioo, from recovering payment of the debt in gj a
queftion<
4th The loss and damage incurred or fuflained, *
in coofequence of such impediments,, whether the till!
fame may have arifeo from the rnfolvcney, change of
fiioatioQ) or the debtor, the loss of legal J
remedy.from Jtp/e of or cthercrtuCes-impairing j
the value fecurity of the debt, which would not ,
| have so operated it such impedimenta had liptexittcd. aij
And sth The.paiticular grounds and reasons .on .
which the claimant raaimains, in the terraa of the,
treaty, "by the crdiutfy.cpujrfe ofjkditial pro- city
ings, the creditor CMir.ot now obtain, 4od s»6fual!y and
have and receive full and adequate compensation" for dov
the loffcs and damages To futlaiued. hv
The genera) agent thinks y his duty further to fug- '
geft thet the several claims ought 10 be accompanied .
and tupported by tbfc affidavits of thf claimants duly r
twQua and wguhrly'at'efted, both ai'to Uae pxifience c
of the debts claimed, and such oilwr circumttanCes *
as may be within thtir kriowlddgt
And wherever the cUitivfcntiin Oatihg the aaiure of
their evidence, (whiclvufruft io eVerV inUance be the
best of whicik th?Cdfe is capable)-have occasion to
refer to the (.eftimouy wirWirt-*, it wilf be proper
jaappnfethe general agentof the names *bd placet
of residence of fitch witftelTesknd the faulilo bt efli
bi)l}ted by therr teftimotvy. • * .
Wm. Moore Smith.
Ph'Ucelol.i?, J«nrjJ.h, d m
City CommiJJloiwri Office,
's t T M r - • June i% % 1797.
10k- j. JN j>uiliM|jce ps an ordinance from the ielefi
\<r a "1 <•'<«"<••«!»» patTed tit; ii<} d?y cf
may tatl, appointing the city. cotonsiflioners,
and prtfcrjbing their duties, ft£Uoi)' cth,
_ , lt9 u W% J 8 HEKEBIf GIV.-.K,
iis i the city is divide im« itvr districts,
} B (he. fc.perijittudaocfc of one cf
, nA , ( 'tX&VMri&Mert, who is to be individually
vrt ri.porffible for the of the fame, and
#<e as follow.
Drdlrii't i\ T O. 1. Frera the fo-jth fide of Ce
d.-ir.j.reet, to the north fide of Spruee-ftreet, un
• _ Ccr the iupcrihtendencc of Nathan B->ys.
, 2 ' ?^e nor;h of Spruce 4«rfec:, to
the north fide of Walnut.flre^t,under thefuper
yjf mfendence ef Hugh Roberts.
3- From the north fide of Walnut to the south
ich , ?°J finder the Superintendence of
)R Claypoole.
or- 4- the north fide of High-ftreft, to. the
a. rort '' Mulberry llreet, under the fuuer
pf "ite'idence of William Moulder,
ol J- From the north fijlepf Mu!b;rry ftrect to
the north lide of Yioe-ftreet. under (he fuper
:r. mtendence of Nicholas Hicks.
!o. 'he cleaning of to be in common.
A uateci meeting of the city comraiJion
ai er. ls held at the OU Court Houfl, in Hiirh
;in --feet, every evening at s o'clock
k July '<•' ' ''",,n
be Stands for Draymen^
In purfnance of an Ordinance frwn the Zcktl and
lamnion Couxc k>kw*9g daU the zzd day of
1 79h providing fir the appoint iae.it of
City LuvnnijfiQtxrsi £s«r. Seci. the lsik
»e ] w'-'owmg places ate fixed upen by the
■*- ''" J City Commifljpnys for Stapds for
.j JJraymen and their Horses.
r In Vine-lireec, eaitward of Front-street, on
i' both iith-s.
Saflafjas, High, Cheftyit and Walnut-fttreets,
:o 'ailward of Front-ilreet, on the no.th fide only.
,s , Mulherrv-fireet, south fide from Front to
> Third-ftrett.
0 t-i? ™ n '"® r<re t, east fide from Vine-street to
1- Elitith'j alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
-11 '<7 to Hamilton's itores, east fide.
c Water-ftrcet, weft fide from the north end of :
0 Stumper's or Moore's stores to Pine-ftrcet. I
Y Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce'Jar-ftreet, weft ;
* fide.
Draw bridge, norfh fide, east of Front-street. 1
Spruce, Pine and South streets, east of Front <
~ t street, fout|i iide. <
j Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the '
, " one crossings, east fide, opposite George a
. Orkley's.
Second-ftrect, between Saflafr*» and Vine '
t ftre-ts, weft fide. t
1 Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul- '
I berry streets. >
Saflafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street, a
1 east fide. '
No drjv or horse to stand within ten feet of
i any pump.
STANBS FOR HACKNEY COACHES. £
Pine-street, nocth fide front Fourth to Fifth
streets. 1
Fifth-ftreet, between Chafnut »o4 Walnut t
' streets, weft.
! Branch -street, north fide, between Third and 1,
1 Fourth streets. u
'. tiw&ftm u
1 Philadelphia and Lancajier Turn
pike Company. f<
7-dy i'H, 1797- fl
AT a meeting of the Prcfident and Muuagers,a a
dividenil of seven and a half dollars per (hare j -
was declared for the last half year, which willbe j
retained by the President and Managers Jr.r the I
purpoics of paying the debts of the Company, a- _
freeable to arufoluticn of the Stockholders the nth j
June last.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
Er.treft _from the Jliinyti-s of ihc Stockholders.
June Mth, 1717. G
Rffolved, ;1!
That the fdhfeription ppened sos one hundred
additional ihares of ftpek, conformable to a rcio'u- c '
tion ot the utii J.uiuary, 1796, be ijow c'ofed, **
and that the stock ®f the Company confitl of ca
twelve hundredinftead of tbirtctnhundred lhares. 01
Wm. GOVETT, Sgsrctary. _
July 10. m&wlw m&ttijw
To bij fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the hettfe of Mr.
William Evans, the lign of the Indian C
Queen, in rhe city of Baltimore, on the ajrh
day of October next, at ti o'clock, an
About seven thousand acres of land, lil
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reiser i-town and We 11 minder,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidarable part of
these lands) the traiH begins abopt 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few huodred yards
of laid Reifter's-town, and extends to the dil
tance of about twenty-three mdts fropn Balti
more, and liat on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr.-fs.
At so,
A tract of seven hundred acres of _
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenfhurg, cfteemed very gocd for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby,of BUden&urgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purcnafe.
Ai.sc, Ca
A tract of land of about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeil, from which may be fcen the
city of Washington, Bladenfcnrgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfburg, wiil alio shew this land.
A iiberal credit will be given for the greatest ;r0
part of the pur/has- money. ~h ; terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 ! wjm
Just F cceived,
From Batavia (via |
a few Spiced, of
Cleveland wacc
For laie by
mi ITNQS & FP.
Pcnn itr. rt.
May 30 d-f J
To Majlc-rs and Pilots tripling up Vejfcli
r. <■ /'"* Foreign Ports to this City.
I«dt VlAHercas Sundry infringements;,»»« lately frees
jr of v made on the law,,if this flat'j for the pre
ers, * cntU! B peftU.-nt»4 ot tujccSEioos eitirtr
irora .goorance 6r in/ttentioi ihefwo, it is tfco't
-xpeuient at this ume to publift the Mlowiojr rjt
iTiSZl"""' 0 "' 1
,u HEALTHfOEFICE.
„ June 6th, Iran.
C'e- ™ W. ' pojt
Un- ?/ rhriade,phut from the introdu&ior. of fe/li.
"tip! contagia)u difajh.
to f "< ECT - 7> "id Be it further enafted, that »verv
®r- f a *' er ?* WPfrH} <tf my fhjp or veffei coming- front
£* e %'l a-Sually employed n the coaftme trade
)th and bound to sny port or place within
of • of P c< infjl7jpia,fca!l cause his flup
or veliri to be brought to anchor, or edurwife flay
he C l ■, o{ the "Yft Delaware, oppoEc* to
the Health-Office on State-Jftanj" sforcUid, era
tnerc to rtg».B until he ffiall have duly ootained a
to ~ crtlf ' cat ® or '; lU Ol h froij; the kefirfent Phy
-r- si tffi r'• ?° obtaiaing such certt
|":" e °f y.' °? Health, any cialler or captain lhail
fu/krh.sftip or veffei to approach near, r thap the
tP the ciiy of Philadelphia, or
11- (ball land, caul; or !uff.r to be'laa.'ed, or br u u 7 lit
h- pn ft ere, at ai;jr place ct port within this Com
r.jpr.wca.th, cr at any other port or place, with (he
_ " ite " P 1 co » 'eyed into this Coir.monv/ehi;h,
any fXffaq or persons, or any goouo. wares of me'r
chatioizp, or, if at'(V F xeiv.nV fuchbill of featfe
.o--e«t'ficatß. he fta!l TKgl cVor rifofc to.deliv«
of tfic laser to the Health-Officer, such master or cap-
Of tain flia.l forfee py, Jar each tnd every such
oncp.ee, ihciupcl f uundred bolxa&s,
he /V" i ., thc " r every ship or vef
or lei lhail fend a fife and commodious boat to brine
the physician on boar J, and fhai in like manne?
m convey him back to the Hsa.th-Office, after he l.as
concluded his official examination ; And while he
Sj IS making fach examiuaiijp, or in <aft anv fubfe--
quent examination by the Heal"h Officer or Con
-0 ijdting Physician, agreeably to the diredions of
this act, the mailer or captain (hall expose or caule
to beexpofed to theljarch ef the Refideat Physi
cian.or ol the Health Officer aad Confuting Phyfi
ci a n (as the cafe may be) each and every part ®f cha
...i» or, veflel, and ftali present to his view each
and every person cr persons on board thereof, and
and ihali alio true and apifwcrj make
to all such quefUonjj as the Relident Physician, &c.
ii at the time of examination shall ask relative to the
health of any poet or place fr«m winch the ship or
vend failed, or has since touched at—the number
t of persons on board when the ihip or veffei entered
on her voyage—the number ol persons that have
e since been landed or taken on board, and when
e and where refpeaively—what persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or shall, at
e the time of examination, be infected with any pes
tilential or contagious dil'eafe—and what is the pre
f»_at Hate and condition of the persons on board
with refpcift to their health or diseases. And if
■ any matter or captain shall rcfufe to expose as afore
aid, to the fcarch of any of the officers afore [aid,
f rif he shall conctal atyJUk fttfon, er » any other «k
---ner dccerjt the prefer officers aforefaid in his anfluers,
such captain or matter, for every such offence, lhall
forfeit pay the sum of fiv* uunokxc bol
la»S.
Sict. 8. And if any pcVfon or persons whatfo
evsr (thcßefidt'nt Physician, Sec. excepted) (hall
go on board any veftl, before the maficr thereof
1 has received a certificate <)f health in the manner
diredted, every person so offending, lhall pay the
um of ONE HUMORED DOLLARS.
IT beiag absolutely necessary that the foregoing
fect'ons fliould be punctually complied with, the
■ -fcriber, in compliance witlvhis duty, muil ex
i aii » rigorous obf.,-vance of the fame, or else be 1
. under tl;c neccffity of putting the laws in force.
: i \Vu. AiuLEW, Health Officer of the
1 Port of Philadelphia.
■! fr-'fH- anv
NOTICE.
i HE holders of certificates of a loan to the ex
iled citizins of the States of Soijtli Carolina and
Georgia, under an ad of Congi ess 23d July, 1781
are informed, that by lodging the fame with
George Simpfon, Cafliier of the Bank of the Unit
ed Slate-, tin y will he eaabledtp receive payment
«f piiiicipal and interest, as foo-.i as the certificates
can be forwaroed to Charleston for settlement, ar.d
orders received for their difchare;.
6t_
To be bold,
d hrge and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
SITU I E at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every respect weli finilhed. For particu
lars enquire q(
M. Kcppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 31. $
FOR SALE,
BRF.TAGNES in cases
German Checks in do.
Cambrick
PUttillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and fdver 'Vatches
VVi;>dow Glass 10 by 8
Qlafs TumUersin cases
Linfce4 Oil in &c. &c.
George Pennock,
Higb-S
J u '. v 5- 3".vy
Now Landing,
Sit Pratt's <wbarf,
FROM on board the Ihip Thomas Chjftcley,
Capt. Kafer, from Qcurdeaux,
CLARET in cases
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
. Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle If Leech.
Mav if v 4
Will be Landed,
From on board the Ihip A dlive, Capt. Bi.ajß,{rom
Hamburgh,
2t> bales white Russia clean Hemp
j casks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Lettffer,
NorthFif-.h street, No. 34.
Jtine 36. f
~" C O i T O N.
A few bales just arrivei< for sale by
JOHN CLAKK,
Xo. 5 5 North Water Street.
Jutie 10- ' »Ptf.
[Volume MLl or BoUi'deaux
tftfaJCS The ship t
£" "c ho, ' W
Captain G. Boys, 5^ tn
£'Vij9L&i® At Wilingan&Fr.uicis* wharf; >
f&il in 15 days For Freight 4° 1
or F .uTa gt ,,rp'v^ is c0 pp INGT 7 R>
No. Ml, South FtontStreel-
To y iS■ disf. . Jiil
* NtTWILANDING,
Jt HAMILTON'S WHARF, s st
• AND FOR SAH SV fj av
EDW/ird DUNAN G«
No. 14.9 SWA Front-Jlreet,
The Cargo of th. at bw Liberty, dued lrom Bour
deai.x, viz.
76 pipes of high proof."well flavored 3randy
300 cases ot fupcrior f*.ed V ine,.fit for the East
India market. . -
He has on hand,
A fc\v e?Jks of Kngiith Porter in bottles, Sper
maceti Candles in boxes, and a f .-w packages of p
Calcutta GobH-. Free
For Sale, Freight, or Charter, I flZei
' THE SAID SNOW
. yjmMj Liberty ™
John Wallace, Commander ; a ' ni '
c.'aii.tiv'j/ Burthen between between 13 and qj 0|
140? bills in cosiplete order. Apply as above f olli
July I'- , imp
lor bale, ~ i
The n.it- d fat) failirlg Schooner nun
William & Sarah, feif
' BURTHEN upwards of seven the
hundred barrels, just arrived _J
from Jamaica, and lying at Chefiut-ftseet wharf.
Th s vessel is only nine months old, is well equip
ped in all refpeits, is burthenfome and well con- /
ilrufted for a Weft India trader. Apply to .
Jofepb Anthony (°? Co. |
Who have for Sale, now landing from on board <
said Schooner, '
High.proof well flivorad Jamaica Spirits, Su»ar* j
Of th- n ft. quality,a f-w bagsCoflce tnd Pime'ito
Tn V ;7. .i*r v -
No. 183.
Diftria of Pennsylvania, to wit : or
BE IT R*EMEMBEk£D, that on the -
fifteenth day of Jane, in the twenty
firft year of the Independence of* the United
States of America, Jam s Woodhousi-, of
the said diftrifl, hath deposited in this office the
title of a book, the right whereof he claims as
author, in the wbrds following, to wit :
" The Young Chernift's Pocktt Companion,
«' being a Defcripti< n of a Port .bit Labaratory,
" containing a Philofophiral jpparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Agents, by which
ik any person roay perform an endless variety of
« aniufingand Experiments, defijjn
«' ed for the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
« intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chemistry in the United States of
" Am'trica. ByjAMts Woodhouse, M. D.
« Profel% of Chemistry, in the Unverfity of J
" Pennfyfvania, Prefidtnt of the Chemical So
" ciety of Philadelphia, See.
"At p*efent every thing that is not denomi r~
" nited Chemistry, is but a small patt of a lyl
" tem of natural knowledge. ea
Pritflly tin />ir " w
111 conformity to the afl of the Congress of the ta
United States, intituled, •' Anatf for the encour- t.
agement of Learning,by securing the copies of
m.ips, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of such copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWF.LL, Clerkof the
Diftridl of Pennsylvania- r
July rS. •_ J
" The History ot Pennsylvania, *
BY ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the preli, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by Z CHA
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, t
Philadelphia, where fubferiptior s will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library, 1
according to the printed proposals, until the
•work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. *? wtf
Stolen or Strayed\
ON the Hth infl. out of the Commons of Phila
delphia, a brindled Cow, marksd with the
' letters J.N. S. in different places, a white face
which extends over one of her eyes, a little whi e
011 the back near the rump, her body a»d end of
her tail white, apiece cut off the under part of her
Wear, anJ the lo]» cut off her near one. Any per
son returning the f a Cow to |oun Simpson,
Catharine-street, will be handsomely rewarded.
July 18. *
Philadelphia Alms-House,
Uth July, I79T
THE Managers of this Inftitutiou, anxious to
promote the necclTary accommodate, s and reli f
of the sick and afflifted Poor therein, wish to ap
point five refpeaable, well recommended women
suitably qualified to ail as Nurf's, in the fcvcral
wards o» apartments, where such may be ncceffary
For which purpose, offers or proposals, accom
panied with suitable recommendations in writing,
will be received here on or before Satuiday, jth
Augufl ensuing.
By or ler of the board of Managers.
JOHN CUMMINGS, Steward.
July 17. d jAs_
" Wanted in a Private Family,
A Steady middle aged Woman, is the capacity
of an and to render other rea
fonablc services. Sobriety, integrity and niildnefs
of temper, are indifpenfible
\rithout which none nerd apply.
Alfc, for Sale,
Ekven y«ats of the time of an indented servant
Girl, who isgoSTd tempered, smart, adtiye and use-
Apply at this office.
July 17.
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLfSHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]'
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of theprefent War with France.
Bv the Honorable,' Thomas Erskini.
May ij
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W.Young, Book feller, No. 5», South Se
cond-street,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial and acquit
al of Francis HopHnfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
cra i —ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
" W. Yoono has for sale, a general assortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by thej>ack
rge, weß affprtejl.and entitled dra it
-Exported, . .... . > iy 7 ~
Sale bf Madeira Witie.
. • ■
WILt. tie foki at 10 o'i'lock on ThurWay
morning, the aoth iriftant, at No. 108.
South for approved endorsed notes
at 'io and 90 days, A "
40 PIPES OF LONDON PARTICULAR
Madeira Wine, ti
Old and fit for immediate "fe. that
JOHN CONNELLY, Aualonecn the i
July* 7 and,
Vathaniel Lewis & Son, a
Have for sale at their Jlore, No. 70, Adjoining OTI
George Latimer & Son, Pine-Jlreet Wharf, * a '
A Qnsntitv of
Madeira Wines £
In pipe? and half pipes j j v
adejra Walnuts and Citron, btely imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt, Copia timc
, W°>.
15 Puncheons, second and third proof, IVell- coni
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy (J a^(
They have constantly on hand and for.fale,
French Burr and Country Mill Stones of various Let
a ■ \ a jjeneraJ a/Tortment of BouU'tug Cloths of t
the quality, both American and Foreign ma- j
nufaflure. The former having proved, from fe- (
veral years txprricnce of a number of millers in
different of the United States at lead eqdal,
and in many instances luperior to the European Wl
1 Cloths, we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw W as
, son, will meet with liberal encouragement in this j w
, important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
j ed a patent ahd exclusive right of making and '
vending Boulting Cloths on his improved pfen, for a
number of years, and they are fold only, by him- Hot
i felf in Lancaster, state of Pennsylvania, and by m2 j
1 the fubferibers in Philadelphia. rur
ij J" ne '* d 101
George Dobfon, lea
No. 25 South Thi r d-Street, - wa
HAS imported per {hips William Penn, Star, an
and Diana, Irom London, <
i j 4 Super London Chintz, elegant patterns, 0
Ginghams., YTuflinetM and Dimities. am
a FaOiio.table Wa ftcoating, neweftpatterns. I H
Ribbjnds well affortc', in linall trunks I 1
■4-4 J-4 and 6 4 India and Brkifh Book-muf- I ml '
lins. , I s o]
Fancy Cloaths and Paffimers.
' ht whole to be disposed of cheap for Cafii j
or approved Notes of a short date.
June 14, '97. d. ff. |1 1
e j m<
I Rofs Sc Simfon, Ui
if Have for Sale,
C A QUANIITY OF PRIME ne
isr St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
II Excellent India Market I vc
J TenerifFe Wine, an
h In Madeira Calks
,f A few Quarter Chefls best ca
i. Fresh Hyson and 7 TEAS I W
id Hyson Skin $ ca
le Muscovado Sugars in Hoglheads, and I f,(
if Coffee in Tierces I f lt
), Mnrch 7. HI ar
bifurance Company of North A- I m
mtrica. j"
'i "T"HE Dividend for the lafl half year, declared I''
f- X by the Dire&ors this day, is one dollar on Jv(
each share of the Stock of this Company; which m
will be paid to the Stockholders, or their reprefen- I j^ (
he tatives duly au'horifed to receive it, at any time as- I
ir- ter the aoth inrt I
of EB£N HAZARD, Sec'ry. ®
0- July to. th I
A Literary 1 reat. n
he tl
JuJl published, handsomely printed on writing a
_ paper, price I dollar, . I)'
A new edition of that popular and entertaining j 1;
work, entitled I j
ed, FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being I r
lA- La sequel to the history of John Bull, the Clo I
e t, thier—ln aferiesof letters to a lriend, with the ad- I r
• Ul . dit'on of two letters, alluding to recent political I ■
rv tranfa&ions in Atnericii. . I
,u' l'h« following extrafl from the Clavis Allegorica, I
(hews the principal ch»ra<£lers that are introduced: I
c John Bull, the Kingdom of England
_ Hi» Mother, the CI urch of England
His Wife, the I t
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland I .
His Brother Patrick. Ireland
thr Lewis, the K ngdom of France I
race Hi» Mistress, the Old Conftitulion I
hi e His new Wife, the National Rcprefentation I
1 Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain |
her Nicholas Frog, th? Dutch Republic I
P cr " The Franks, the French Republic I
0N > The Foresters, the United Stales of America I
1- Robert Lumber,. NeW-Hampftnre
I' John Codline, Massachusetts I
Humphrey Plowshare, Conheilicut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
T* Peter Bull Fr»g, New-York
' to Julius Cxfar, New-Jersey
e " William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
' a P Caflimar, Delaware
Tljn i Walter Pipewood, Virginia
feral His Grandson, GeorgeWafliington
r.iry Peter Pitch, North Carolina
•om- Charles Indigo, soutk Carolina
tine, George Tfulty, Georgia
1 Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
d. Rats, Specularors
\5 Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
This popular and entertaining satirical hiflo- I
ry of America is attributed,to the Rev. Dr Bel- I
,c,t) ' knap. It hasa great share of originality and a-!
' rca ( T bounds with genuine humour. It is continue ! I
. "* s down to-the present time, and charafterifes those I
lions. ] ate political tranfa&ions which have caused so I
much ureafinefs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookfcller, No. 16,1
rvant South Second Street, and No. jo, Marke' ftaeet.
d "fe* June ->6. 5
Davis s Law Book Store,
TZ No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
TDEING busied for some time past in prcpara
tions for removing into his pretent house, has
been under the neceflity of puftponinguntil this Aay
informing the gentlemen cfthe Par generally thro'
uen-, ,he United States, that his spring importation of
WCe. law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
termsthxt he trusts will entitle him to the like pre-
x 'r freence he has experienced for leveral years past.
y. Catalogues, combining the moll varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application,
th Se- j nnc 27, saw 6w
is, Millin<?ry Room,
lcqßlt ' No. Jj6 Market-flrret.
SU " _ MISS CHUTSTAL
j rils cn " r T'AKES an early opportunity of acquainting
JL her Friends lhat lhe has received by the
lentof Willum Penn, a variety of NEW MlL
pack- LINERY, &c. which she hopes tfc be able to
i:ck if fh w them in a few days.
May 18 J3ot
£i)cO>asctt~c» K
PHIL A DELPHI A, voya
WEDNESDAY EVENING, Jvlt 19.
The pilot of the {loop Mentor infotms'
that the French privateer which captured
the Afiu, wasfeen cruising off Phaenrx-Ifl- tQ t j
and, on Thursday last.
A gentleman who arrived in this city on
Monday evening in the ship tame from }
Malaga, and who had been put on board
her from the London Packet, from Liver-
pool, bound to Baltimore, on the 7tl) in
ttant, that the (hip failed from t)
Liverpool the 19th of May—that at that
time the mutiny in the fleet was said to have
subsided, and that the situation of Ireland
continues to be the fame as our last accounts
j state. bec<
J Letter from capt. Farrady, of the ship Ca- are
tharine of this port, to his owner, dated cam
Bay Mahaut, Guadaloupe, June il, '97. Ifh
j "I am sorry to inform you I had the mis- I
] fortune of being captured by the Sloop of on
j War L'Egalite, Captain Rousseau, which .you
j was fitted in Newport about 5 months Hgo., « >
j ! was taken on the 4th of June, ialat. 14, Sta
I 20, long. 56, Weft. They took Mr. Col- he
] linsand three of the people on board of the dep
I sloop of war, and fentfcur soldiers, a prize Sta
! master, a midihipman and five sailors, and re 6
I run for this place, where we arrived on the infc
I 10th inft. allc
I After our arrival I was ordered not to wit
I leave the veflel without leave. The prize fuc
j master went on shore, and returned in half o f}
' I an hour, and ordered me into the boat, and me<
I told me to go to the commissary, who »x- the
I amined me very closely. He informed me all
I I (hould lose my veflel and cargo, and that pre
I might expeft nothing else, and that I
• might be very happy if I did not go to pri- ma
j son. I then a iked permiflion to go to Point I j
j Petre, and on my arrival there f met two coi
' captains from Cape Ann, near Boston ; wil
I made my cafe known to them, they im- his
' I mediately turned round and left me on the >w\
I wharf. I was then in ' very greaf distress,
I having no money nor any place to get a din- I
ner. I flopped there for about ten minutes I
I and saw a boat coming on shore, which I I
thought looked like Americans ; they pro- no
ved to be Capt. Fitzpatrick of New-York, of
and capt, Lawfon of Philadelphia, super- foi
cargo of a Danish brig. Upon making my th
I cafe known tq them, capt. F. told me he ev
I was in the fame situation with regard to los
capture, but that he had some money to as- re
d I fift himfelf, or he should have been in a poor I th
I situation ; for he had been here a month, I t'n
- and had done nothing. He genet-oufly told Y
I me that I should not want as long as he I te
could aflift me. Mr. Conflant (the only g<
L .j I friend to America here) told me he was I if
jn I very sorry for me, and that he would aflifl I S
ch me as much as lay in his power ; that I fa
"■ need not expeft to save my veflel. g
lf " I P. S. They unrigged the ship the fe- I A
I cond day after her arrival, and compelled I h
I the hands to aflift them in doing it. I c;
" I They take vessels bound here within aI \
mile bf the harbour, fleering right in for Ih'
I the place : So I think we are in a fine state I o
ng lat present! It makes no difference where p
I you are bound ; for if you are found in the I d
ng I latitude of any of those Islands which are I
I mentioned in the Proclamation, that is e- I
" G g nough to condemn you." I v
cal I Translated from the Bourdeattx " Journal c
des Journeaux." J t
ed I May 10. Jj-
Journal " Des Meres de Famille." I \
I This interesting Journal, ufeful not only I ■
I to fatl*rs and mothers, but still more so to I j
I all those who have children to raise, is con- |
I tinued with fucpefs. The fourth number '
I has appeared; it contains numerous eflayson I'
5n 1 physical and-moral education.
In the Council of Ancients, fitting of Ij
I Germinal 14, and Presidency of Delmas, (
rica I the Council received and approved a refolu- j
I tion of the Council of Five Hundred, which |
I declares that the judges and public ac- I
I cufers (attorneys general) /hall not be per- I
I mitted to quit their funftionsuntil after clo- I
I sing the proceedings which they shall have
| commenced.
Germinal 16, Council of Five Hundred I
I decreed, that consignments made in due I
j form and in conformity to laws existing at I
I the epoch at which the consignments are I
I made, are at the risque and peril of the I
I creditors.
I Communicated for publication by the con- I
ful-general of the French republic, near I
uflo-1 the United States. (Aurora.
Bil* I
id a- Form of passports and sea-letters which arc 1
rued I to be given to vessels and barques coh- I
those j forhiably to the twenty-fifth article of
ed 10 the treaty between the United States and I
16 , France,
et. I To all to whom these presents shall come I
J> greeting :Be it known, that leave and per
miflion has been granted to mas
ter or commander of the ship called the
of the town of of
' the burthen of tons, or tlierea
p3 v a " bouts, now lying in the port or harbour of
; e ,Vay and destined for
thro' laden with
ion of That after this ship was surveyed and before
r > on her departure, he made oath before the offi
' cers of marine, that the said (hip belonged
ollec- to one or more of the subjects of
rinted which aft shall be annexed to these
at the fame time he shall observe himfelf,
6w and cause to be observed by his crew, the
marine ordinances and regulations ; and shall
deliver a lift signed and attested by witnesses
contaiinog the names & furnamcs, the places
of birth and residence of the perfbns com
"1 jpofing the crew of his ship, and of all those
[ who shall have embarked in her, of whom
3 j c t0 he shall not receive any on board, without
the knowledge and permiflion of the officers
3<>t of marine: And m every port or harboyr
where he shall enter with his ship, he shall ]
(hew the present permiflion to the officers been
cf marine, and make a faithful report to but it
them of every thing which passed during his 'woul
voyage, and he shall carry the colots, arms prob;
and insignia of [France or of the United His .
States] 'during his said voyage. In wit- the ]
ness whereof, we have signed these presents, and c
have caiifed them to be counteriigned bv admi:
and have caused to be affixed "
to them the ieal of our arms. Done at ance
the day of in the year, See. of th
far the Gjz*tts of the United States, eleft:
To the Cavalier Yrujo, Mmjler of Spain, dams
Under an expectation that you would If th
have loft no time in disavowing the docxrinc cond
of your partisan " Yerus," as published two
! in the Gazette of the U. S. on the 17 th and 1
" instant, I have delayed to address you.— Mar;
j But, as your silence supposes your assent to Ada
the very extraordinary opinion' uttered by son's
3 that writer, a short answer to that opinion chof
becomes ntceffary, and, confrdering that you all tl
- are a volunteer in newspaper polemics, you nam*
I cannot objeft to the franknefs with which pera
• I shall express myfelf. . but.
■- By the r.eafcning,which you have adopted equi
f on this occasion, and upon which indeed and
h you have praftifed, it is contended that the j
)•■ " whenever the President of the United ged
States shall submit any reprefentafrion, which < to ii
I- he may have received from the head of a j Frai
e department, to the legislature of the Unite 4 J *
e States, and Congress shall fee proper to di- , hit 0
d reft a publication offuch document for the Mr.
Ie information of their constituents, it shall be nia
allowed for any foreign minifler, resident dec!
0 vvith the United States, who may consider fifte
:e s uc h affefting the interests two
If ofhis court, to address himfelf, thronghthe dec
d medium of a newspaper, to the people of
c- the United States, and to animadvert, in
ie all the asperity of indecent language, on the H
at proceedings of the American government."
1 In what confufion or imbecility of diplo- J
"i- matic conftruftion, such an idea originated, ripe
"t I pretend not to fay—but I willl assert with j n g
ro confidence that, unless Mr. Yrujo is charged be :
1 ; with inftruftions of a most nefarious nature, goc
n- his business is with the government, and not in :
Ie I with the people of the United States. as 1
rs, AMERICANUS. wit
n- I thii
es COMMUNIC iTIONS. bet
I I The faftion, in their cups, fay they do Ca:
o- I not acknowledge John Adams as Preiident rip
i, los the United States. This has been known for
:r- I for some time ; but it was not ftippofed that a pi
ny I they had temerity enough to do it publicly, g r c
he I even at a drinking Bout. The late " feaft ti a '
to I of reason" however so far deprived them of
as- I reason, of the toaftspl*inly implies nil
•or I the sentiment, " The United States and pq
th, j t'neir President" —Whether the Chevalier ch
ild Yarico is in the secret or not, I will not pre- or
he I tend to fay ; but his philippic against the th
lly government, is as outre a performance as gr
ras |if no such officer as President existed. be
lift I Some people do not scruple to fay, that the Ha
t I faftion have taken the Chevalier under their th
I guardianship and diresion ; and, as Mr. v.
fe- I Adams ought to have loft two votes where pv
led Ihe had only a/if—he is what the people ot
I call him, President of the United States, it
i a I When the Chevalier Yarico therefore pub- f,f
for I lifhes a fecood of his letter, the error tti
;ate |of alluding to such a personage will ex- ar
•ere I punged. How charmingly the French or- pi
the I der these things in Spain nOw-a-days ! h<
are I di
.e- I One of those truly refpeftable personages ft;
I who have found njfuge in this country from b;
I the perils they were in for attempting to it
rnal I counterfeit a constitution and palm it on rr
I the people, has been-graciouflv pleased to tl
I offer a model ofhis own clumsy casting in si
I lieu of the constitution of the United States, b
snly I The people of France having adopted a n
"oto I fo™ l government with five heads, this I c
-on- I fabricator of forms proposes that the United ; v
nber States should have five Presidents. The £
rson I consistency of these state tinkers is truly n
I laughable—They are continually railing a- ji
, I gainst the expense of fnpporting the govern- g
= 0 ment of the United States ; pnd here, in, q
I? 1 ? 5 ' one essential article, they propose encreafing v
° " it five-fold. Perhaps, however, as the bufi- 1-
nefsi of pamphlet making affords but a ftarv- f
aC " ' n g pittance, they would propose dividing j
P er " the present salary into five parts, and for one t
clo- I gven a f}f t h there might be found (
e I among this worthy fraternity men who \
I would cheerfully undertake the talk of go- 1
, verning the United Stat.es. A creature of
I this stamp offered to serve as governor of a j
S at I state for 200 dollars—and declared it was 1
i a . rt I more money than he ever saw at once in his j
thc ' life. -
The faftion fay in their vehicle, the Au- 1
I rora of Saturday last—" Deplorable indeed
con " I would be our situation if' John Adams could
" eai I »' ve effect to his assertion, for we should not
ora - only be the slavish tools of a British ministry,
h I but we should be fleeced of the effefts of
coh- I our hard earnings'to fatisfy the rapacity of
le of the anglo American harpies, apd to realize
s and I the mad and wicked projefts of the admini-
I ft ration." —Which may be thus parodized :
come I Deplorable indeed would be our situation,
I per- 1 if the faftion could give effeft to their affer
maf- tion [That the people are opposed to the
ie I government]—for we should not only be the
of Oaves of a foreign power, but we should be l
lerea- fleeced of our hard earnings to fatisfy the
>ur of rapacity, not only of foreign mercenaries,
but of the Gauo Amfmcan Harpies;
who are now waiting and longing, panting
sefore and gasping for the property of ever}- man
eoffi- of industry in the United States. To rea
anged lize the mad and wicked projefts of this fac
tion, the public debt of the United States
ifentji 1 has been augmented millions, and hey have
mfelf, brought the country to the verge ot a foreign
j, the war. The southern states are threatened
d shall with the scenes of St. Domingoj and the
tneffes eastern with the horrors of bankruptcy from
places the loss of their commerce.
com- —.
1 those Sortie fly fellow (a wicked concealed a
whom riftocrat, no doubt) has put a trick upon
itliout poor Bache, by prevailing on him to insert
officers the'followsng keen ironical satire en his own
arboyr absurd atid ridiculous doftrines.
; " Mr. Wafhir.gion woulu proLaUy have
been re-elected if he had flood a candidate ;
but it is without a doubt that his eiecaon
would no't have "been unatitmeus, and this mod
probably was the cause of his refigilation.—
His British treaty has capped the climax of
the. Bntjfli measures of his administration,
and opened the eyes of many of his former
admirers. ■
" The assertion that tlfere is no discord
ance between the political views and wishes
of the Government and those of the people,
.is completely groundless. The event of the
ele&ion for PrgJider.t proved it. John A
damshadyx Thomas' Jeflerfbn, 6 . _
If the eleftjon in this state had been /airZJHb,
conducted, John Adams wotiLd have U.idS
two* less, and Thomas Jefferfon,
and had it not been for a mere accident in M
Maryland, on<s vote which was given for
Adaihs would have been thrown in Jeffer- '
son's scale, and the latter would have been
chosen. When it is further remarked, that
all the prejudiced influence of Washington's
name, and all the efforts of his creatures o
perated in favor of Adams, who can doubt
but that the pure voice of the pe pie was un
equivocally in favor of this republican rival,
[ and consequently against thole measures of
the prefcnt administration which have indul-
I ged such a partiality for Britain, as is likely
i ; to involve us in all the horVors of a War with
II France."
1 ) * This tumorous writer who hasfc happily
. | hit off the Jacobin saws, is here mijlalen
; : Mr. Adams had but one vote in Pennfylva
. nia ; although the people of the State had deci
t ded by a -very ■ confderalle majority to give
r fifteen votes for him as President ; but those
s two honeji men, T. Mifflin and j4. J. D,
decided otherwise.
f
n ECONO M I C K S.
e Hints on the Manufacture of
CYDER.
APPLES (hould be gathered when full
- ripe, and will quit the tree by gentle fhak
h ing ; if gathered before ripe, the cyder will
d be rough and hard, and seldom pleasant 6r
good flavoured. Lay them on the ground
>t in a fruit yard, better if upon a gravel walk,
as the wet will run From them, and they
will lie dry in the 'bottom ; should not lie
thicker than ten or twelve inches, and are
better kept without than within doors.
1° Care should be taken to place fruits of equal
it ripeness and good qualities by themselves ;
r n for if of different ripeness the cyder will be
at apt to ferment too much, will cause it to
y, grow liard, and never be rich, full; and fine
'ft flavoured.
of When the fruit is thoroughly mellow, it
es rnuil.be committed to the mill for the pur
id p Q f e of cyder making, made with a ilone
ier chafe and roller, forhething iimilar to a bark
■e- or a sugar -mill. The roller drawn round
he the chafe by a horse. Here it fliould be
as ground to a pillp, that no bit of apple m?y
be seen, and untif you cannot hold it in your
lit- hand, if you take a handful and squeeze it ;
cir the kernels and rind will be well broken, apd
Ir. will give the liquor a fine flavour. Let it be
?re put into tubs of hogflieads with one head
pie out, and remain there two days, then press
es. it through haircloths. I use fourteen, or
ih- fifteen, putting about two pails full in each,
ror- turning up the fides and corners ; then put
;x- another .on until the whole aje filled, th&n
or- press it with a screw ; put the juice into
hogsheads ; after it has been, there a few
days it will worTiaHfrlteßTwup'a thick fub
ges ftanceat tliebung hole, famewlwt Itkebanp,
om but of a darker colour ; whet? this appears
to it generally is dropt fine, and should be :trt
on mediately racked into a clean cast ; for, if
to i the fubflance be fuffered to fall, the grounds
-in from the bottom will rife, and the whole will
tes. be in a ferment and very foul, and perhaps
1 a must be racked three or four times before it
this can again be separated and got hue ; and
ted will run a risque of making the cyder harfp.
Pile So long as it* remains fine and free from fer
•uly msnting, it may remain in the calk ; but if
Ja- it ferment much it should be racked, and the
™rn- grounds or lees taking from it ; it often re
, ia quires four or five rackings- Cyder made
sing with different forts of apples keep best by
iufi- hreaking and mixirg together; but this
arv- should not be done until it is fine, when the
ling proprietor may blend it -to his palate. Af
one ter the whole is done, a bung may be placsd
iund over the bung hole, but should not be clof
who ftopt until February or March, when it 1 d
go- be fit for sale or use.
If cyder' do not fine, fomepeople
glass. For one hogshead of a hupd
lons, beat about one ounce and a j|
pull it to pieces.; add to it about tw|
of liquor, and whisk it : Tepeat thij
be diflblved, and beaten fine. Pa
folil liquor, throw in tbe diffolvi
ftir 1 it together with a (lick. Aj
drops fine, rack it off into a clea
Cyder ikould not be bottled J
or eighteen months after it irl
would endanger the breaking tfl
IMPROVE ME 1
BALTIMORE, Jul-
It cannot but be grateful to
wiftier to Baltimore, to view
mente at this time going on in
of Aur flouriflvng city. But w
'of prosperity mud it not give
cad bis eyes along the exter
elegant buildings erefting on
lately completed be Mr.
Elderry. From Water ftreef J
r.ing wa? macie about two y
• oui)to the eijd of the wharf.l
completed and progrcffing ■
[lores and dwellings, which M
enterprize and improvement J
time by no City. prrhap:B
and certainly equalled by ncß
What adds much to the
(Ifeeti*, that-the houses- arfl
high, aqd on the fame'ronß I
This ground is mnflly fl
rent ; it is no adulation tl
tors evince no lcfs libersliM
where an individual leaffl f
the ability to .erc£V a bui!®-'
reft, they immediately frHMr gi>< fcisj: bis.
'time to refund 'it' ; they alfo-give vhc
-t>i aurehaftnjj off the rent, at any time tt.ev
may fte proper, by paying the prtiu
•the amount- *
. ' ' STJ7E OF IRELAND.
IRISH PA.RLI AME.NT.
HOUSE QF COMMONS.
Wcdt.efday-, May II .
' RKTORT OF THE SECRET COMMITTEE.
, . The r-jport having been read Mr. Pel
itaiit said it would be cnneceffary at present
for him to trouble the house with many ob
servations, because as a committee of the
ijords were fitting on the fame fubjetk, the
step Avhich ought now to be taken
PWs tq fend the report to them. He could
not however, help observing that what had
now trtofpired nraft convince every man
that it was not legillating which should be
refortedto, to.repress this daripg and dark
conspiracy, but to those strong measures
which the executive government had already
adopted, with the approbation of the house.
This report juftified to the fulled extent
those mcafures—and at the fame time cal
led on the gentlemen of the house—and on
a very loyal fubjeft to drain every nerve
to put down thi* society : Nor did he think/
formidable as they might appear, that there
was any reason to fear that the loyalty ps
the country and the force of thtf Statp,
would not be fully fufficient to crush them ;
their numbers it was reasonable to believe,
had been greatly exaggerated in these pa
pers, as it was plain that they tried every
mode to keep up the fpints of their'deluil
ed followers, as well by fallacious statements
of their force, as by the' expe&ation of
foreign affiStance. For his own part he be
lieved the great body ps the people were
loyal—aud he.would,be proud to exert every
power he poflefTed in oppofiug this band of
daring traitors ; but he hoped that the pub
lication of this report would open their eyes
and (hew them the danger and the crimes
into were hastening. He hop
ed this report would open the eyes of other
persons also, No man in the house, he was
fare, would deny that parliamentary reform
And Catholic emancipation were fair quef- !
tions for discussion, either in or out of parli
ament—but he was confident that when it
was known that these , were only made pre
tences for introducing confifcation, murder
and a republic—they would be less zealous
in urging these questions at such a time. He
concluded by moving that this report be
communicated to the Committee of the
Lords, and that it ie printed—Ordered.
Mr. Pelham, without preface brought up
the report of the secret committee appointed
to consider of the papers seized in Belfaft,
and to report their opinion thereon. This
report, which consists of sixty nine folio
pages, was read at full length by the clerk ;
we must content onrfelves at this time with
giving a summary of its contents.
iThe committee began by dating, that
they cpnfidered it to be efTential tp a peeper
difchargepf the duty imposed on them, not
to confine their enquiries to the fpecific pa
pers fubraitted to their consideration but to
go back to examine into the principles and
motives of the society of the United Irishmen
at itS, firft formation, they aflfert, that in
conference of this examination, they find the
society, under the pretext of promoting a
parlimentary reform and what they cal|m
emancipation of the Catholics,
design to disunite this
Britain, to overthrow '
tipn, and establish
fprtn of
this opinion
written
tive mcnjß' •'
-praportipas, .aud Us
it in certain ways, such as provi
am'l,s and Rnununidofi;' fupglying the
!nerhbirejshp (jiSfer for jlweaufeby itr.prifon
i i.cnt or otksrwifc, with noeefTaries, apd
with the means of deftr.es; providing for the
wives andfatnilies of tiiofc who may fajl in
the. field or any other, way for the common
service; they are enabled to regulate the e
lection of military officers, and, in a word,
some branch or other of thia organized body
is. to regulate every thing which relates to
the military, the financial or tht;judical de
partment. With refpe£t to .lie lift, there
is a particular provtTion-which fixsntlie man
ner in which the tribunal {hall be chosen,
who, when a revolution begins, (hall decide
on the property and sven the lives of accused
individuals; and there is another provision
which declares what defir.'p.tion of fufpefted
persons fliall not be fuffered to enter the
ranks when the conflict (hall begin. This
paper contains also the path and teffi which
is to be taken by the private members and
by the committee-men, by the
treasurers, &c. that of the privates in little
more than a promise " to promote as far as
in him lies a brotherhood and union arhong
Iriflimen—and that he will not through
hope or fear, pr-any other ipotivc, give evi
dence against any of his 1 brethren, or betray
any expressions which he may hear at the
meeting of the society." The other papers
which the committee have copied into their
report, are minutes of the proceedings of
sub-committees of United Iri/hmen; and re
ports on a variety, of fnbje&s. They con
tain in the firft place accurate returns of the
numbers of men who have at different peri
ods become members of the body, fpecify
ing the precifenumber inthe particular coun
tries, towns, aud diftri£ls; they contain al
so returns equally minute of the sums fub
fci;ibed by each refpe&ive place, and the
maDntr and purposes for which tjie money
ha? been expended. The returns of guns,
bayonets, swords, spiles, cannon, powder in
barrels, and in weight, of ball cartridges, ps
bullets, &c. &C. are all reported with equal
accuracy,- and always accompanying the re
turns of the men and money.
By these returns it appears, that the so
ciety, within a (hort time, and from begin
nings comparatively small, has arisen to a
number truly formidable—not less at this
moment than one hundred thousand men !
The amount of their arms, though far from
being comraenfurate to their numbers, ap
pears to be very considerable, and they rec
kon among their' ordnance eight pieces" of
cannon and one mortar. In their -money
accounts are found accurate statements of
their expenditures for a (lifting prisoners, pur
chasing arms, &c. and in one return it is
remarkable that the officer who remits it
fays, " this money has been paid somewhat
before the usual time, because it is expend
our friends will soon arrive at Bantry," or
words to that effect-—and several inftancss
occur in the papers-'of allusions to tlje ex
pected arrival of these friends. In sortie
papers the committee earnestly exbtirt their
people to temperance, to sobriety, to peace,
observing that the wiih of government wai
to goad them into infurre&ion,
hopes of the people
only -
By this day's Mail.
NEW YORK, July 18.
By the pbiitenefs of a gentlemen, who
came passenger ip the Franklin from Bour
deaux, erriv;d yellerday evening, we are in
pofleffioa of Pari?papers to the 23d of May
-—from vxUich we have extra it ed the follow
ing pa«ie-(tlars< "
The late hsuir at which we received them,
precludes the possibility of furr.ilhing any
thing more for this day ; but" * fiat ever ap
pears worthy of will be given to
morrow.
From a carfOry pewfal of the mod recent
th a* do pot appear to contain any thing, ve
ay ; itereiling.
■ The most important event announced, is
the intelligence relative to the iufurreclion
on hoard the British fleet commanded by
Lord Cornwallis, and deilined for the East
Indies. Though the Paris Editor does not
appear to attach much credit to the authori
ty on whicli this news is founded [letters
from-Loudon] —yet we thing it corroborates
the accounts we published last week from
from Marblehead ; which may now be ren
dered less dubious.
PARIS, May 16.
On the 14th irrft. the Directory is said to
have appointed Buoilaparte (brother of the
general) ambaffaflor to Rome—and Sche
. rer, Consul General to re fide at New-York.
Mr. Scherer is brother of the general of
that name.
LA FAYETTE and his companions
in misfortune Bureau de Pufy, and Latour
Mauionrg, are liberated. Buonaparte did
not wait for special inftruftions from the
Diretlcry, but demanded and obtained their
enlargement, immediately after the signa
ture of the preliminaries with the Emperor.
We are aflurtd that La Fayette is determi
ned to repair to Paris in the character of a
prisoner, and that he means to foiicit a for
mal trial.
■' May 23.
Letters have been, received from London
of the 15th instant, which announce, that
a new infurreftion has taken place in the
British fleet, commanded by Lord Cornwal
lis and deilined for India. The admiral
having given orders for failing, the crews
refuted to obey—he resolved on decisive
measures and directed the mutineers to be
fired on. This step, far from calming the
infurredtion, served only to exasperate the
sailors, who soon obtained the entire com
mand of several (hips. They immediately
arretted Lord Cornwallis and many of the
superior officers, and appointed a commission
of delegates from the several (hips to try
them—Mean while,, deputations from the
fleet were sent to the other ports in England
to engage all the sailors in a common cause
for obtaining the justice they require of gov
ernment. It is unneceflary to add,, that
while we give publicity to these reports, we
think it prudent to fufpendour belief of their
entire authenticity, till further accounts are
~ ... 5. . . '
by another French privateer 10th, by ano
therand received civility from all.
23 spoke brig Naney, Reed, out ten days
from Ne\j York to Madeira,.then in Ut, 37',
43. July 6th, fpokc the (hip London F.i?ket,
Ewif, ou; 45 d"jv« from Liverpool to Bnlti
moie. g:h, lpuke felir Hercules, Cut 4 days
from li.iltirpore to Cayenne.
The Slip Walhington and (laup Sally, are
arrived at iislefn from this port, /
Tiie brig Eliza, ,h2»atrived ».t Chr.rlef
ton.
New-York, July 18.
ARRIVED. DAYS.
Ship Commerce , Havre
Franklin, Dodge, Bourdeaux, 41
Ship Franklin, Capt. Dodge, left Bour
deaUx, the 6th June.
Left their the following American veflels.
Brigs Betsey, Ewing, for Dofton, to fail
in 10 or 1J days ; , Very for Salem,
iu 15 or 20 days ; Leopard, Guthridge, for
Boston iti 8 or 10 days-; Ship-Liberty,
Wheaton, of New York, to fail for Lilbon
in a few days ; Hercules, Bridges, of Bos
ton, lying in ballast ; Brig Ceres, Guthrie,
of New-York, to fail for the Weft Indies in,
two days.
Arrived there.
May 30, Schr. Eglantine, , N. York.
24, Brig Phoenix, Grafton, Sakm.
28, Ship JefFerfon, -Hooper, Boston.
30, Ship Mary Ann, N.York.
Schr. Fricndfhip, Saunders, Glou
cester.
3 1, Brig Eagle, , Philadelphia,
June 3, Ship Diana, White, New-York -
The brig Sally, Foster, for Philadelphia,
and brig Nancy, Webb, for Salem, failed in
company.
June 8, long. 7, W. lat. 44, N. was"
boarded by the English frigate Phxton,and
treated politely.
June 11, Long. 17, lat. 43, boarded by
a French cruiser and treated politely.
June 15, Long. 21, lat. 43, fpokc the
(hip Ceres, Conger, from Newry, out 17
days, bound to New-York, with 50 paflen
gers, all well Sailed from Newry in com
pany with the (hip Warrtrj, Stoddard, for
New- ork, with 250 paflengers.
June 20, long. 30, lat. 42, boarded by
the Argonaut, an Englilh 64: and treated
very impolitely, but fuffered to proceed as- :
ter two hours detention.
June 22, long. 32, lat. 42, pafled a|
wreck, to appearance American schooner,
with yellow lides, round house, black Hern
and yellow mouldings: (he appeared to be a
new vessel, but could not discover her name,
being full of water—mails and bowsprit
gone by the board.
June 26, long. 43. lat 43, fell in with the
English homewards bound Windward Weft
India fleet, confiding of between 2 and 300
fail, out 35 days—was boarded by the (loop
of war Swift, one of the convoy, and treated
politely- '
July 6,10ng, 59, lat. 42, spoke thebrigZe
phyr from Botlon bound to Hamburg out 6
days, all well.
July 10, long 66, lat. 43, 39, spoke the the
brig Mary, O'Brien, from Wales bound to
NewYotk, out 54.
%ljt <5 wttz.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING? July 19.
TO DON CARLOS.
Sir, • '
IT i« very currently reported, that the Offi
cers of your magnanimous malier, now com.
n.anding on the territory of the United States,
have recently fold and are no*v felling, through
thair agents, large quantities,of pr.me lands,
to which (being ceded to the United. States)
their title may well be deemed quellionablei or
rather uiiqueiiiiiiiably had.
It is also reported, that this has given rife to
the pretexts which have delayed the delivering;
up,of the Polls to the officers of the United
States.—That that celebrated Land-Dealer,
Blount, had fa corlcern in this Speculation,
and finefled, thro' fl.s i-nderltrappers, with tffV
British minuter, in the double view of gainiag
money as an Indiau-treaty-man, and fii'i gjtfftng
your officers with a new pretext, winch may
a low further time for the dilpofal ai the disput
ed lands.
If it be true that his majt-fty and hisreprefent
atives( whoaiefaidtobe iaterclted) \v|nk at these
tranfaeliops ; and r.eally'the tergiverjatibns and
prevaricating conduit of Don Sbuffl-qjt aivl
the Baroii de Carry on delay, ju It ify Uic iiilfiiei'
on , 'I leave it to your excellency'* good • Mil'.' to
decide, whether u will no: be- very, natural for
us to begin to d.iubt whether his majeity.2&i;al
ly mean! to fulfil the ltipulation by which the
atortlaid lands are ceded to th» U.ited "States.
These important points will not mil's y< s iK ex
cellency's notice. Yeu have abundant oppor
tunity to clear up the bulinefs through.the me
diuiw of any of"the public prints'! ffipuM it be
in your doing it will prove iin
menfely advantageous to the interims or your
malter. A A. A.N.
Mr. FENNO,
Please to inform' Mr. Bache's correlponr
dent, that he lies under a miitake, rtl'peit
ing the President's JirJl appointment, his jirit
being that of " Sands" from which no Gold
caa-.be. extracted, in place of the Lambs
whom wolves were devouring" —that the
nomination of his firft born to Berlin, was
no more than a removal, and not as he and
his correspondents have endeavoured to irn
pofe upon the world, a new appointment —
It is will known to Mr. Bache and his co~ -
respondents that Mr. Adams was appoint
by President Walhirigton last June t\u".
month, Minister Plenipotentiary t. 1 ;
but as no appointment was made to t ..H li
place at the Hague until this lail March,
when Mr. Murray was sent to succeed him,
he was directed to remain at the Hague un
til his successor arrived—the successor 01
Walhington thought proper to alter his des
tination to Berlin , instead of Lifbcn. 'I here
is no additional rank conferred by this ap
pointment, nor any additional emolument,
and is no more Mr. Bache, than if your em
ployers Ihould think proper to remove you
from home to France without an increale of
pay or emolument.Prop of:;Is j w
For carrying; M AIL S of the 1 ,
Unit'fd States on the following •
Pojl in-ill be received I
1.1 tlTe General PoJlrOjjice, in i
Philadelphia, until the 31ft -
day of July next, inclusive.
MAINE- 1
"ifroro. or Macbias, ChaTJ- c
ultr« river aA4 Columbia, to Narragnagm once a 1
we -y J
Leave Brewer's every Saturday at a P M, and
arrive at Njrraguagut the ne:i r Tuefilav at 6 t.
VI —Returning, leave Warraguagß* .-very Wednes
day at S a M, tnd arrive at Brewer's thu next Sa
rmdiiy by io'a M.
S. From Narraguigue by GnuUlborou'h, S'i',l;-
van, Trenton, Bluehill, (JuCine, PenoWcot, L'ackl
\. Frankfort, ProfpciSt imd Belfall to l">nck-
Tr.T on<?e a week.
t _av- Narragua;us every Wednesday hy 6 a
u, ar>J auivv* ar DutV "rap the next Saturday hy
ro A at. Returning. Leave Duek Tra every Sa
t j-.-day 1.-7 i p a and arrive at Narrsguagus the
r »tt I l. -flay by '> ? M.
3. From Duck Trap by Camden, Thomafton,
TTSrren, W ilrfoboror.gh, Ncwcallle, WifcafFct,
Kath, U.-rnfwlck, Fretpcrt and North Yarmout,
15 poTil :fi-i oiice a week.
Leave Duel-Trap every Saturday by t * M, and
arrive ntPortltnd th<-. naxtTuefday by 6 p m. A
ijriti.ir. Leave- Port bun every Wedmefday by 6
a M.ae£ arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by
I*? A M
-4. From Portland by Biddeford, We'.lfs and
Yori. to Fert&u»uth.
April' ly la Oaeot* 15 Leave Portland every
Monday, Wednesday Friday by 6a m, and ar
rive ai Portficoiuh the fame ilayt try 6 p m . Rriur*-
i"g. L* "e Fnrtfmouth every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday at 9 e m , and arrive at Pcrtland 00
t!sr next day by 6 P M.
Omitr is to April Leave Portland every
Monday sod Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at
Portsmouth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 a m. Rc-
Urnin-. Leave Portfnaouth. Tuefday and
Eriday at i p M, and arrive at Portland every
Wednesday and Saturday at 5 ( X
y. From Portland by North-Yarm ~uth, Free
port, Bntofwick, Bath, Wi&affct, Drifdcn, Pittf
ton akd H.-.Howell Hodk to Hallowell court house,
osce a week.
Leave Portland every Friday at 8 A. M, anil ar- |
tive at Hallowcll court-house the next Saturday by
■J P M. Retuniixg. Leave HalloYvell ccurt-houft
every Wednesday hy j A M, and arrive at Port
land on Thorfday hy 6 PM.
6. From Wifcaflirt by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo
well Hook, Hallowell court-house, Winthrop,
Mor.mouth, Green, Nev/-Gloucefter and Gray to
Portland once a week
Leavo Portland every Memday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Wifcaffet on Wednesday noon. Scturn-
Ug. Leave Wifcafiet on Weduefoay at 3 P M, and
arrive at Poitland onFiiday by 6 P M.
7. lrom Hallowell Hook by Vaftalbcrongh,
Fort Halifex, Winflow, Fairfield and Canaan to
Nr rriigewok once a week.
Leave Hallowell Hook every Wednesday at n
A M, ?nd arrive at Norridgewock on Thurlday
by 6P M. Returning. Leave Norridgew. ck on
Monday jttPM, and arrive at Hallowell Hook
on Tuesday bj 6 P M.
8- From Hallowell Hook to Farmington on San
dy river oace in two weeks.
.ve Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8A M, ' arrive at Farjaington by 6P M
Returning. Leave. Farmington every other Thtirf
day at 8 AM, and arrive at Hallowell Hook by 6
JA&TCf to Cuncord a »
ci!:, I
Leavc'Cbr.ct.r I ("-'try Vart day ty 6 A \l,irrlv:
Jt CKiifter hy if M, atld arr v- at Bd!';on on
Tuesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave Bcftort ev
ery Friday bv 9 A M. arrive at Cheiter on Saturday
by 11 A M, and arrive at Concord on Saturday by
6 P M.
From Boston by Concord, LancalLr, !.eo
minlle'r is ) Afhbuniham to Marlborough, Keene
und Walpnle in New Hampshire. f
Leave /.eominfter every Thcrfdiy by 6 A M,
arrive at Keene by 9 P M, and at Walpcleon Fri
day by 10 AM' Reluming, L'.zVc Walpol w
cry Saturday or S jitday by 5 A arrive a Xeetje
by 9 AM, ttnd at .teominfter in the evening;.
every Monday and Thursday by
4 AM, and arrive at Boston by 6 P M.
From Boston by Qvincy, Hinghjm, Haup
v:r, Plymouth. Saadw)ch, BarnftaMe, Yarniyuth,
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Truro once a
week.
ave Boston every Thursday by 3 p it, arrive
at Sandwich «n Friday by 6 P M,and at Truro thfc
iier.t Sunday by 6a M. Returning. Z.e»veTruro
every Monday by 8 a M, arrive at Sandwich on
Tll. fiay by 7 e m, and at Bjftcn on Thurfdaj by
10 a v.
ix. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
Ho'e to once a weeek.
Leavf Sandwich evcry§a:urday by 1 p m, and
arrive atEdgarton on Monday by 11 am. Return
i-y Leave Rdjjartjn »n Monday by a r tf, and
arrive at Sandwich oivT uefday by noon
-13. From B ifron-liy Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
and Tauntou to Newport once a week.
Bofton ev. ry Monday by 6 a m. and ar
rive at Newport tjtm, on Tuesday. Returning
Leave Newport every Wednesday hy 8 am, and
arrive at Boston on 1 hurfday by 6 r M.
14. From Boston hy Charleston, Medford, Wo
burn, EiUerica, Chclmtford and Tyngboroegh to
Atnhrrft once a * cck.
Leave Bofron every Thursday by 10 a m, an-!
arrive at Aiuherft the next Saturday noon. Re
turning. I.eav Amherft every Monday noon, and
arrive at Boftou on Wednesday by 3 r m.
a5■ Prom Boston by Randolph, Bridgewater,
Raynham andTauntcn to New Bedford.
from Mjy 1t» Savetnler I Leave Boston every
M»nday, wednesday and Friday at 10 p m. arrive at
Taunton the next day by n a M.and at New Bed
ford hy 8 r m . Returning. Leave New Bedford
evet) Sunday, Tuesday and Thu'fday by ro ? M,
arrive at Taunton the next day |>y 11 A m, and a:
1 Boston by Bpm
From November Ito May 1. Leave Boston eve
ry wednesday and Friday at ti a m, arrive at I'a n■
ion by 8 t m, and at New B dford on Thursday &
Satur'ay by 8 p m. Returning Leave New
Bedford every MOndary and wed»efday by 9 » m.
arrive at Taunton by 8 r m, and at Boston on
Tuesday and Thursday by 7 p u.
26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a
week from November Ito May I. Leave New
Bedford every Ftiday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Nantucket in c evet ing. Leave Nantuc
ket every Saturday and Tuesday by lo a m, and
arrive at New Bedford in the evening.
From M»y Ito November 1. Leave New Bed
ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10
a m, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re
turning. Leave Nan ucket every Tue day,Thurf
day and Saturday at 8 a M,and arrive at New Bed
ford in the evening.. wind* and tide permitting.
27. From Taunton by Dighton and Semerfetto
wararn once a week.
Leave Taunton every wednesday by 5 a m, and
arrive at warren by to a m. Leave warren by I
r m. and arrive at Taunton hy 6pm
28. From BoftonbyDedham,Providence,Plain
field, Norwich,' New London, faybrook, Killing
worth, Guilford and New Haven to New York
t.'iree times a week.
From M»y ' to November I. Leave Boston eve
ry Tuesday, Therfday and Saturday hy 10 a m,
, aivive
c:. Korrcky ansi I i.ur.ida'/hv
at S Aid by 7 PM.
35 From Hanover by Ox'ord end Haverhill to
Newbury ore a week.
Leave Hanover every v/ednefday bv 6 a M, arrive
at Haverhill by 4 PM, and at Newbury by 5 P M.
RetijriVng. Leave Newbury every Thursday by 6 A
M, a« rive at Haverhill by 8 AM, and at Haverhill by
6 M
VIRM. NT.
3G' From Wind for by Royal Hon, Randolph, Will?
iarnfton and Montpeiier 1»> Burlington once in tjtfo
w ct k.5.
/.eave Wtndfor every other Thuifdzy by 6 A M,
and arrive at Burling.'on U>e next Saturday by Q> PM.
Returning. £eave every other Thursday
by 6 A M, and arrive at Wind for on Wednesday by H
PM.
37. From Wind Tor to Rutland once a we< k
i,eavfc Rutland every Monday bv 7 A M and arrive
at Windsor on Thursday l»v 6PM Returning.
Leavfc Wind (or every Wednesday by 6 AM, a '' ar
rive at Rutland on Thufiday hy 6 r m.
38. Fr "•m Vergcnncs and Middle
bury to Rutland onae a week.
Leave Burlington every "P urfday by 8 4 m, and
arrive at Rutland on Satur<wy by 6p m. Returning.
Leave Rutland evtry Monday by 8 a m. and arrive at
3urling<on on WedneCday noon.
go. From Rutland by M?nche(ler, Bennington,
Laniiiigburg ar.d Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland every Monday at 8 a m, and arrive
at Albany the next Wednesday by 6r m. Return
ing. Leave Albany every Thurtday by 8a m, and
arrive at Bennington by 7 r v.« Leave Bennington
on Friday l>y 8 am, and eirive at Rutland 0:1 Satur
day by 7 p m-
RH DE-ISLAXD.
40. From Providence by Rriltol and Warred to
Newport.
Leave Providence every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 7 a m, and arrive 'ai Newport the fame
day® bv 5 PM. Returning. Leave Newport every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday £>y 8 am, andar
ri»e at Providence by 4 p m.
41. From Providence b,y East Greenwich, New
po»t, South Kingston, Westerly and Stonington Point
to New London once a week.
Leave Providence t very Tuesday bv 8 a w, and
arrive at Newport by 6 ? M, leave Newport every
Wednelday by f> a m, aod arrive at JNlew London on
Thursday bvVioon. Returning. Leave New Lon
don on Thursday by 3 ? m, and arrive at Newport on
Fiiday by 6 p m, Newport on Monday by 7 a
m, and arrive at ?«ovidenceby $ p m.
CONNECTICUT.
; ' 4a. From Hattfoicl by Windham to Norwich
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuettay by 6 a m, and ar
able at Norwich by 7p m. Returning. Leave Nor
wich ev-vy Monday by 6 a m, and arrive at Hartford
by 7 p m.
43 From Hartford by Middletown, Modui Land
ing aid CoJche ft- r to New-London, once a week.
Leave Hartfoird every Tuesday at 1 g m, and arrive
'at New London on Wednesday by 7v m. Return
ing. Leave New London every Thurfaay by Ii a
m, and arrive at Hartford on Friday by 7 p m.
44 Fjom Hartford bv New Hari'.oid. Canaan,
ShemelcTand Hillfdale to Iludfon ones a week
Leave Hartford eveiy Monday at a p m, and arrive
at Hudson on We3nelday by 11 am. Returning.
Leave Hudson every Wednefaav at a r m, and arrive
at Hartfoid 011 Friday by 11 am.
45. From Litchfield, New Milford,
Newown, Danbury and Ridgeficld to New York
once a week.
Leave Hartford Monday by 10 a m, arrive at
Litchfi Id 7m, p at NevJ Miiford on Tuesday fc>y
U a m, and at ftfew York on Thursday by 8 a a*.
j Reiurnrng. Leave New York every Thursday by 4
p m. arrive at New Milford on Saturday noon, at
Litchfield by 7 r m, and at Hartford on Monday by
! 8 A M.
46. From New-Haven by Derby,
Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and op {hen, to Ca
naan, once a week.
Leave' :v«ry Monday n~on, arrive at Litch
fw Ha by
1 and arrive al Oli Fo.t Schuy'cr cn saUur&*/bv P.
M. i
58. From Rome''by to Rotterdam one
in two weeks,
/.cave Rome every other Thursday by 10 A M. artr,
arrive at Rotterdam by 6 P M. Returning, /.cave
Rotterdam every other Friday by gA M, and arrive
at Rome by 6 V M.
59. From Rome by Oneida, Onondaigua, Scioio
aud Geneva to Kanandaigua once a week v
Z,cave Rome every Thurldav by 10 A M, and ar
rive at Kanandaigua every, Monday by 10 A M, i
/-eave Kanandaigua every Monday by 10 A M, Sind 1
arrive at Rome the nextThurfday by 8 A .\f.
.60. From Kanandaigua by Hartford to Niagara j
once in two weeks
/.eave Kariandaijjua every other other Monday by to
A M, and arrive at Niagara ifcic «cKt Wednesday by 7
PM. Returning. Lcave Niagafi evei_y other Fri
day by 6 /tfM. and arrive at Kanandaigua the ac.it
Mouday by. 6
61. From Rhinebcck by Kingflon. Shiwaagunk,
Wardfbridpe, Golhen, Hamburg, Newto vn, Juhh
fonfburg and Hope, to Eaf.or., once a week.
Leave Eafton eve r y Ururfday by 3P M, and arrive
at Rhinebcck them xt Sunday by t P Remrnipg.
Leave Rhinebeck e\-ery Monday by 8 A M, and arrive
ar Eafton 00 ThuiMay by to A M.
62. From New York by Ha kenfack, Paramus,
New Antrim and. Chester to Goflien once a week.
Leave New.York every Friday at 7 A M* and ar
rive at GoHien on Saturday by 6 PM. Returning.
Leave every Tuesday at 6 A M, and anivt at
New York on Wednesday by 6 P M.
63• From Fifhkiilby New,burg and New Windsor
to Gofhen once a week.
Leave Fifhkill every Wednesday by 7 A M, and
arrive at Goshen by 5 P M. Leave Gnihen every
Ttiefdav at 7 A M, ?nd arri,VQ at Filbkill by 5 P M.
64. From New Y»r.k by Jamaica, Huntington,
Smithtown, Brookhaveq, Suffolk, Southampton &
Bridgehampton t«» Sagharbour onc« a week.
Leave New York every Thursday at to A M- arid
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M.
Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8 A M, and ar
rive at New York ob Wednesday by 5 P M.
NEW-JERSEY.
65. From Woodbridge to Atnboy tlnee times a
werk.
Leave Woodbridge etery Monday, Wednesday &
Friday at 8 A M, and arrive at Amboy by q A M.
Leave Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
1 P M.
66 From Trenton by Allentown, Monmouth
court-houfel Shre* fbjry, Middletown Point, Sp<£tf
wood, New Brunfwick: Somerset* New Germanion,
Pittdonand Flemingion to Trenton once a week.
Leave Trentou every Tuesday by to A M, and re
turn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M.
67- F»om Philadelphia* launton and Atfion to
Tuekerton once in two weeks
Leave Philadelphia every other WednHday by 3
P M, arrive at Tuekerton on Thursday bv 6 P M.
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 A M.
68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swcdefbo
rough, Woodftpwn and Sajcni to Bridgetown oncc A
: week.
Leave Philadelphia cverv Wednesday afremoon by
9 o'clock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by 2
PM. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at 8A M, and
♦ arrive at on Wednesday at 9 A lyf.
6q From Philadelphia by Jepkintowp, Plumftead
' and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eafton once a week.
Leavo Philadelphia every Wednelday by lo A M,
2 and ?rriye at Ea(t.on Qti Thursday by 2P M. Return
ing. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9 A and ar
, rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3P M.
t 70. From t*lumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton once a week,
t Leave every Thursday by 5 AM, arrive
{ at Pittfton by 11 A M. Leave Pitifton by 1 P M,
. and arrive at plum dead by 7P M.
\ 71. From Eafton to Wilkeftmre once a week,
t Lea\e Eafton every Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive
/ at Wilkelbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave
Wiike(barrre Tuesday noon, arrive at Ea
, fton every Thursday noon.
72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and Harrifburg to
- Carlisle.
/ Oftober 15 to April 15. Leave Philadelphia every
end Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading
and Saturday at 4 PM Leave Read*
Mt arrive ?t Cariific every
' T - * Carlisle eve
* v r l "j|SjSKp a y
3 P M, aad arrl/t at Knoxvilie the nest .Saturday
by 8 P M.
MARYLAND y/A/) VIRGINIA*
8 a From by F.HicottV Lower Mills,
Montgo nery court-house, Charlefburg, /eefburg,
Middleburg and Warrcnton to Culpcper court
house, once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday nooa, arriv* at
on Tuelday evening, aad at Culpcper
Court Houle the next Thursday noon. Returning.
Leave Culpepcr epurt-hpcfe every Friday noon, and
arrive at Baltimore the next "Monday T>y 9 AM.
83. Fro n a'lcu's Frefli by Ludlow's Ferry to
Port Coiway in Virginia.
Leave Allen's Fresh every other Monday by 6 \
m, arnd arrive at Port Conway by 6 PM. P -
Leave Port Conway every otner T ijio «
day by 8 a m, and arrive at Allen's Frefli by 7
84. From Morgantown by Petty to
fbury once in two weeks.
Leave every other Monday by 5 a
M, and arrive at Ciarkfburg by 5 P M. Return
iog. Zeave Clarklburg every other Tuesday by 8
a NI, *nd arrive at Morgantown by 8 P M.
85. From Todd's to King and Queen Court H*
once a r/eek.
Leave Todd's every THuifday by 9 a M, arrive*
at King and Queen by 11 a M. Leave K!ng ani
Queen at 1 P M, ao*l arrive at Todd's by 6 r* JjgL
86. From Halifax by Danville to Calwell courts
houfc once in t wo weeks.
Leave Halifax coort-houfe every other Tyefday by
2 PM, arrive at Cafwell court house the next wVed
nefday b)> 6P M. Returning. Leave Cafwell C.H.
every other Thursday by 6A M, and arrive at Halifax
court noufcon Friday by noon.
87. From Peterlburgh by Sussex court houfc
and Southampton court house to South Quay, onc«
in two weeks.
Leave Peterfbufg every other Wednesday by 6
A M and arrive at South Q*iay on Thursday "by 6
PM* Returning. Leave houth Quay every other
Monday, by 6 A M and arrive at Feterfburg 00
Tuesday by PM.
NORTH-CAROLINA 1 * E3c
88. From Newbernto Beaufort and Swanlboio*
or.ee in two weeks, the; go alternately.
Lwave Newbern every other f hurfday by 6 A
M, remain at each of the offices two hours, and
returrt to Newborn the next.
89. From Wilmington by Georgetown to Char
leston, once a week.
Leave Wilmii.gton every Monday by 6AM
ana arriv*at Charleston the nest Thursday by 10
AM. Leave Charleston every Thursday by 3 P
M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday by
5 PM.
90 From Norfolk by Kempfville, Great Bri«lge
and 'North Weft River Bridge to Jonelbaro', once
in two weeks
Leave Norfolk every other Wednesday at 9 A
M and| arrive at Jonelboro' on Thursday by '7 PM
R eturnipg. Leave Jon.ibo.ro' every other Monday
by 10 A M and arrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
P M.
91 From NortH Weft RiVcr Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in t«vo weeks.
Leave North Well River 1 Bridge every other
Friday by 6AM add arrive at Elizabeth city by
6 >P M. Elizabeth city ev.ry other Satur
day by 6 A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 r M.
91. From Salem, N. C. by Bcthania, Flower
Gap Grayfoneourt-houfe ai\d P uftinville toWythe
qpurt-houfc once in two wo#ks.
Leave Salem every othe Saturday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Wythe c h. the next Mon. by 6 r M.
Leave Wythe court house every oth *r Tuesday by
9 4 M, cKid arrive at Salem the next Thursday by
' 6 PM.
93 From Murfreefboro' by South Quay to Suffolk
once a week.
• From Murfreefboro* every Wedne r day by6AM%
' arrive atSufFolk by 6P M. Returning. LeaveSiif
folk every Tuesday by 6 A M, and arrive at Murfreef
boro' by 6PM.
J 94 From to pitifburg once in tw«
■week®.
' I Leave Fayetieville every other Wednesday by 6 A
• M, auc airive at Piufburg on Thu'lday a' 10 A M;
' , Leave Pitifburg ev<iy oiher Thursday by * P M, and ar
' ! rive at Fajyetteville on Friday by 6 P M.
AND SOU TH'CAROUNA.
: ®fcMki ,u(la by Robinfcn at th<\ White
to o..ce a
> by 8 A M and ar
" by 7 PM. Re
v/' at 6 A
: 5
ia