of the & Philadelphia, Daily Advertiser.
Number 1358.] , SATURDAY EVENING, JANUARY 14, tygy, [Vclum's'll.
Mxs. G R A T T'A N
RefpeAfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the iothday of January,
lne proposes opening, at No. 39', North Sixtn
ftreet, a •
Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muflin9, from 6/3 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9f h per }ard
Scrtped ditto, from 7/10 to iq/io per yard
Fine GoGTae*
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to zipper yard
In lia Muslin, from 11/3 to Ijf per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from to 6f p£r hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to io/6 per hdkf.
Muslin colored and horder'd Handkerchiefi
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from io/"8 to lifit
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
Hwckabu :k Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6/3 to ISf V tr P a^
Dimity from 5/10 to 6/ii
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/1 1 to 1 $si
Irifti linens for Gentlerr en's .Shirts, from 5/5 to 9/7
And a variety of other articles. t
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Gravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &e. &c.
Houfliold i/inen, &c. &e.
A plain Ihirt, made and mafk'd, 3 I-a dollars#,
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain Ihirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars
A plain shirs, made and marked, 5 t-fc dollars.
A fall ruffle j ditto 7 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 71-2. x
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
January 13. §
For Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
Three ftortes high, 16 feet front, and 40 feet deep
each, and adjoining ; situated on the east fide of Front,
between Kace and Vine-streets ; Nos. 161 and 1163.
They will be fold on very reasonable terms, eithe>
separately or together. Applv to
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
January 13 diw
FOR sale,
f a fl~f a rf in & schooner ORION/
Y%r Saventy ton 9 burthen ; fifteen months
—-jPliWr ■ ; her frame is of the berft of white
oak : she is a laithfal built vejTel, handsomely finifhed off
and well found in every particular ; is ready to receive a
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex
pence on her hull, /ails or rigging : Ihe flows fix hundred
barrels ; has handsome cabin and Peerage, and a half
deck w)iich will flow from feventy-five to eigh.y barrels ;
has been newly caulked, graved and painted, for terms
apply to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, corner of Market a>d Fifth-ftreets,
Or to the Captain on board said schooner at Meflrs.
Willis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
wharf; where there is for sale (
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the best of American Mess Beef, and tome very excellent
Boston manufa<stured Chocolate.
December 26
jGfeL For Sligo and Kiliibegs,
The American Ship JSlanct,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales Irilh Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens
25 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Mitts,
Also,
A fcw barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
j-r* FOR SALE,
7 HE SHTP M ARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
5? hundred tons burthen. Applv to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oitober 31. d
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship D lANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,
tTSfflrriawßurthen 105 47*95 tons regifler, built in
SisjssSfS!/ Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar, and was sheathed 13 months ago, she
hasjuft had a comp'.eat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
ata very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin & Co.
iFho have for sale on hear J said vejfel,
47 casts of fine yellow pairft.
9 boxes and iz bundles of writing dates.
I box ink stands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the fir ft quality.
19 tubs Qmckfilver.
t chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goodswell aflorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
IHO crates Queens ware well aff«rted.
10 tons iheet lead.
Nails aflorted, flat and (harp points.
T°^ 0n L ir, i C " Ur ' 1 Madeira Win* in pipes
S-Yorsx, s -?**•*■
40 pipes and 10 hogfteads Teneriße wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
130 logs Mahogarty.
Nov 7. td.&ftf
A B A L L.
J. DOZOVs BALL
Will be held on MONDAY NEX 1 , the 16th of
January, at Mr O'Ellers's Hotel, and dtintinue every
fortnight during the season
Gentlemen's Tickets, at ene dollar each, to be had
at the bar of the above Hotel, where Ladies who
choose to honor him with their company, may also be
fapplird with Tickets.
J. DOZOL refpedlfnlly infnrms the Ladies apd
Gentlemen, that he will centinue his
Dancing-School
at the above Hotel. Hour* of attendance for Ladies
are from io to i in the jfiornmg, and for Gentlemen
from 6 to 9 in the evening, Mondays, Wednesdays,
and Fridays, during the season.
N. B. Private Lesions will be given, either at his
school or at the houfer of those who may favor-him* *
January 12
Particular Teneriffe Wine.
SO Ouarter-caiks Particular Teneriffe WINE, *
Of a superior quality,
For Sale by
A. Mar pie & Israel W. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-street.
January j 2 tts6
Boarding and Lodging
May be had at No. 62, Penn-ftreet, in a creilitablc
ramily _ 1
January 9
NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public papers, will eomraence this even
ing, at «he City Tavera -to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4 §
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGg DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Hiis received per the Diana, from I.onion,
Clouded and striped Spmifh Svanfdown
Clouded Erminats and Moleskins
Striped do. a»d da. "
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. and Caffimeres
BuperS«e printed Qudtinps, newest patterni
Also, per different arrivals,
«A large and general assortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching feafoiv
November 5. -
SALT P E T R E. ~~~
Alarpre quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
fait as No. 25, South Third-street.
November 5.
~ THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to afeertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVII.L, by trade a Stont-Cutter;, 01 1 Brick Layer>
who qeiitted Ireland ii 1783, or 1754, and came into
this Country, ('tis fuppsLd to Philadelphia) abou;
tour years since, be living 1 or dead As this intelli
gence is of the highest importanee, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High iireet
December 31. w&f im
For Sale,
J. WARDER, PARKER S3 3 Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from , 2 inch cables down
to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the (hip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback
Sept-ay dtf
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 01,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Harring in barrels and kegs }
Ditto S?imon, by thi doaen or single one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine yid coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and flucco-work 1
Deeember t. stf
Imported from London & Liverpool,
EARTHSN WARE, in crates and hog/heads, well
alTorted
Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all fi7es
Two cases of fiationary
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains,
Paints of various colors.
Bafeet fait in hogsheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very ®ld, in pipes, hogfl>cads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French shoes aflorted
Silk nankeen, &c.
Likewtfe an assortment of Dutch goods, consisting of
Ofnabergs, ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias, &c>
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas Is? John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nov - ■ eotf
FOR sale;
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, xin
tour Isparate Patents. For terms of sale a,,ply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, Smith S'cond-flreet
Oilober 31. trjwftf'
TO BE SOLD,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Cloucefter, and (tate of New-Jarfey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
greet part of the arable land is in a high {late of cultiva
tion, and very natural to of Red Clover
On said plantation there is a genteel two-fioijy brick houie,
i with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-tiibsand carriage
haufe The garden is large, and contains a good collec
tion of the bed kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ;
the orchard confiftsof about three hnndred grafted apple
trees. Any person inclined to pur chafe said premiles, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
f
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HISH-STRBET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
a w,u Stira t J Assor T MSNT »f
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, oil the very
Icm eft terms ;
Amonjrft which are
Some elegant 4-4 Snd 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconef Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
tiillc and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrella* of the firft quality, assorted
Irish Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and' Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. &c.
OAobcr 26. d
A Frinting-Office for Sale ;
in the city of Burlington, on the river De
laware, about 20 miles from Philadelphia. *<
Confining of
French Cannon, Roman and Italic
Double Pica, ditto ditto
Englifri, ditto ditto
Small Pica, ditto ditto
Do. on Pica body, ditto ditto
Two-line Letters—Flowers
A good Manogany Prefs-*-Impefing Stone
Alio, Chafes, Gallics, Composing-sticks, Racks,
Furniture, Sec. complete.
The situation is eligible for business, and the office
calculated to execute any kind of work. The terms
are rcafanable. Apply to 11. Kammerer, jr. Crown
ftreet, near Race-street, 'at No. 43, Race-street, or
of Mr. John Ncale, Burlington.
January to,
Just Landing,
At §outb flreet wharf, from oh board the fbip Stclg
ky, Captain liodge, from St. Peter/burg,
The following Goods :
Rufiia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheetittg do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Craih.
Do. Mou'd Candles, 4* 5 and 6, to the lb/of the
English fijse.
Do, "White Candle Tallow. *
Do* White 3o~p hi Ihiall botes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck. ,
lfinglafs, id ani fort.
Herfe Hair uncurlcd.
RufTia Bar Iron. «
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Ton* Oakum and Junk.
St. Petcrffcurg Clean Hemp;
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Ce.
O.loinr It. §
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
«xchang«l for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut
freet, wlu:re a corrtift Numerical Book is kept for public
infpeftion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ci
changed for prizes diawß in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th and s*l. days returns are received.
V The Business ot a Broker esrried on as ufnal.
V A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
011 reasonable terms.
January n. ttntf
OJfict of the Injuranct Company of Ntrlb-America,
January gib, 1797.
The Dividend declared by the Direilors, for the last
fix months, is two dollars, for each fliare of stock iri
this company, which will be paid to the Stockholders
or their attornies duly authorised, at any time after
thei9thinft. By order of the Beard,
tawtigth EBENEZER HAZARD, See'ry,
L'rejh Garden, Ltra/s and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain F&fdiok,
from LSndoH,
And FO-R SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walniit and Second-streets,
A mojl capital and txtenfive Assortment of
Garden, grass and flower-seeds^
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which are,
Five kinds Asparagus Three kinds Crefles
* Sere cole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radish
Beets' Fifteen Turnip
Ekven Brocolii Fifteen Peas
Twenty-fix Savoy
Carrot 1 Fonr Parsnip »
hree Cauliflower, Twenty-three Melon
l' ve Celery, Twenty-one Lettuce
r "> Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum '
Thyme Mangel Wurtiel
Leek Kail Shallots 1
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne <
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. Sec.
With a curious collection of the most esteemed 1
fLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS, =
T . tile m °ft extensive ever imp orted into this city. '*
Ihe above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and t
. arc warranted frelh and good.
Tinted catalogues may be had by applying as above. 1
Dec. 17. dtf.
WANTED,
" MECHANIC, to ereil Spinning and Wc.-ving
. Machines by water, such as are ijled at my maniifac
- tory Apply to JAMES DAVENKj! T,
L No. 101, North Front-ftreeU
N. B. None need-apply but a complete mechanic*
and a mas of liability.
> Globe Mill, December 29, 1796. £
FO-R SALE,
; At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
'No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperhl S r Hyson Skin.
Hyson, > Frefli Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, 3 £j3ohea
3tawjm.
A C A R D.
If Monsieur G H, StHLi,
Wko left Bordeaux the 2«th June last, arid arrived
»t Boston i.bfitit the middle of August ( in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him some information of importance.
December 24, 1796. £
In order to ctmply luiti contrails, / will fell, for
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of FredericlUburg, beginning op
posite to the lower corner of Doctor Wellford's, on
Caroline-ftren, and running up 10 the ctofs street
leading to Fitahugh's ferry, and from thence back to
Sophia-street. This square I have laid off into 24 l«ts>
27 and an half feet fro»t, andi2» back, 12 on Caro-
Ime-ftreet, and u 011 Sophia-fireet. Nine of those
on Caroline-street I have leafed on an annual ground
rent of 8 and 10 pouwds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purchaser could enkance the value
of by building small houses, which, will as readily
procure tenants as jpots or goards will Martins in the
. fpringj and yield a greater profit in proportion to
their cost than large buildings. Thof* whe incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
HBNRY FITZHUGH.
BelitAir, Dee. 8,j796. 7thJ.d4w
Notice to Creditor*.
The Assignees of Bernard Dougherty late of Bed
ford County, will make a dividend of the effects in
their hands, immediately after the firli day of Februa;
ry next to luch Creditors as may furnjfh their accounts
before that time.
Thomas Smith V
1 homas Fitzfimoss ( . *.
Ifsac Hazlehurft C Aflignecfc
Mier6 Fisher j
Philadelphia, Jan. 9, 1796.
Philadelphia, Jan. 17971
All persons indebted to the Estate of*
Joseph Paschall, deceased,
ARE requested to pay their refpeflive iehts without
further delay, otherwise their accounts willfft. t ~„t int»
the hands of an Attorney to recover—And all tnofe who
have any demands againit said Eftatk are desired to brimr
in their accounts tor settlement, t»
SAMUEL COATES, -j
CHRISTR. MARSHALL, iun C Ei 4 re.
CHARLES MARSHALL. } cox
PubHc Notice*'
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to th«
judges of the Supreme Court of this Hate, to supply the
r j r rny [t ' e t0 a 0t of ? roun d, situate on the Weft
hde «f Fourth-street, containing in breadth 20 feet and
in length. 5 6 feet.boußded Northward and Weft ward' br
groundof the iubferiber, Southward by ground ofEdward
Shipptn, and Eastward by Fourth-street, occasioned by
the lois of a deed from Timothjr Harrington, John Lewi*
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux
—All perfoas concerned, are required to appear beWc
two of the justices of the said court, at the house. of
Thomas M'Kean, cjq. the Chief Jaftice of the state, on
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fuhfcribdr, filed in the offidfc of
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the said court.
„ WILLIAM SHIPPEN.jun.
Philadelphia, J-amiary 6th, 1797. dtjoth
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
' . • WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Nov ' 30 w&f •
Bank of PennfyJvanm,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Direflors th's day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars ofi each (hire was declared for the lift
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliler.
J« n - 3- dtf.
A Quantity of Branch^
FIRST & 2d proof*
Gin, of 4th preof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof* in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different ftze*
Hazicnuts, infacks
Whiting
Copperas f ,
White Lead T hhdi
St Spanish Brown J
For Sale by PETER BtIGHT.
January 4 j
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years Old, 6 feet high* growing to Ig feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottlee of perter,
drawing the corks With his trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels looft, at the
rate of five n»iles an hour, and is the greatert curiosity
ever brought to this Comment. '
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, i«
Market-street between Third and Fourtli-ftreets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 5* $/ New Ihe at re.
The French Company's Night.
THIS EVENING, SATURDAY, January 14,
Will be preferred, by the French company,
A COMIC OPERA called
LA MRLOMANIE.
Dans Lequel Mons. Fieron, n'ayaat jamais paru fur
aucun Theatre, remplira le role du Melonianie.
The mufie by M. Champein.
Guronte, M. Fieron
Chrjfante, M. V'tellard
St. Real, M. Lavency
Crispin, M. St Marc
Elize, Mile Tejfeirt
Lifette, v Mile. Sophie
After which, A COMEDY in three adls, called
The Married Man.
Taken from Le Philofophie Mirie of M.. Deftauches,
by the aut'norefs of Every one has his Fanlt, &c.
and performing at the Hay-Market theatne, London,
with considerable appl^ufe.
Lord Lovemore, Mr. .Moreton
Sir John Claffick, Mr. Wignell
Mr. Clafiiek, Mr. Warren
Mr. Tradewell Classic Mr. Bates
Dorimont, Mr. Fox
William, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Lady Claffick, Miss L l EJfrange
Emily, Mrs. Francis
Lucy, Mrs. Harvey
Ta which will he tdded, by the French Company,
A Comic Opera, in one a<sl, called
Deux Petites Savoyards.
The mulic by M. Dateyrac.
Xe Seigneur,, M. St. Mare *
, Clermont, M. Poignand
Le Bailly, M. Viellurd
Jaqne, . M. Lavancey
Michel, Mile. TeJJiirc
Jofet, Mile. Sophie
' Box, One Dollar twentf-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
gr Tickets to be had at 11. & P. Rice.'s flook-ftore,
No. 50 Higfr-ftroet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to oe taken at the OlEce in the
front of the theatre,'from 10 till a'o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen jtre requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quartor before 5 o'clock, and*
to order them, as soon as the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
VIVAT RESPUBLICAI
College-Hall.
Readings and .Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNELt
Refpeilfully informs the Public, that
THIS EVENING, Saturday, Jam 14, at 7 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
( first part)
THE EFFECTS OF REVENGE,
Exemplified by feleftions from the
character of Zanga, Dr. Young
(second part)
THE PROGRESS OF JEALOUSY TRACED
In the character of Othello,. Shakespeare
During which will be recited
Othello's fpeecli to the Senate
The celebrated fc«ne with lago
Aad the most striking paflages during his paroxysm of
jealousy
(third part.)
THE EFFECTS OF JEALOUSY,
Exemplified in
Othello's fotiloquies before and after the murder of
Deidemena
Alonzo's soliloquies before and after the death of
Leonora
With critical observations on the authors.
Subscriptions are received by Mr.Zachariah Poulfon,
jun. at the Library, where the Ladies and Gentlemen
who may be inclined to honor the undertaking with
their patronage, are refpe&fully requeued to fend
their names and receive their tickets.
Occasional admiflion tickcts to be had of Mr. Poulfon,
Jun. at the Library ; atrar. M'Elwee*slooking-glafs-!lore,
No. 70, South Fourth-street ; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
eller, Market-ftrcet—Half a dollar each.
Mrs. Grattan
Refpeftfullv informs the Ladies and GentlemenAjf the
City, that the second
LADIES' CON CERT
Will be on TUESDAY NEXT, the 17th of January
it Mr. Oellers's Hotel,
ylcr I.
Grand Sinfonio, Haydn.
Holy Lord, Mrs. Grattan, Handel.
.Concerto Violin, Mr. JSHlingham
; i rk> and Chorus, Siege of * Belgrade, # Storace.
J4ct 11.
Concerto in Bb. Mrs. Grattan, Doflek.
Ah non fai, Mrs. Grattan, Sarti.
Quartett, V - Pleyel.
Grand Chorus pirate, Storace
.*'.[* 'jHie Concert to begin at hilf fix ; and at
half past eight; the music will attend for the Bali.
Mrs. Grattan begs leave to inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen, that the fubfcriptfoH-took is at h<fr house
No 39, North 'Sixth-flreet, for the reception of those
names who wish to honOr her with their commands. —
A fubfcriptioo for eight nights 16 dollars, including a
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, both taansferrable—
Half-fubferiptions 8 dollars, including cne ticket.—
Single ticket » dollars. ■ . ' '
Mrs. Grattan takes the liberty of requeftiiig the
fubferibtr* to lend for their tickets any day after
Thursday, the 15th of December, at Ne. 39, North
Sixrh-ftreet.
Single tickets to be had the day of the Concert
only. \at the Bar of Mr.. Oellers's Hotel.
Bank of .the United States,
January 2nd, 1 797.
The Directors have this day declared a Dividend of
Sixteen Dollars -on each Share for the lait fix (months,
which will be paid t» the StockhoMers after the Izth
i/sftant. G. SIMPSON, Caihicr.
Department of State,
. December 19, 1796.
Sir, ,•
BY the dire&ion of the President of the United
Statei, I have the honor to inclose a report of the
Dire&or of the Mint, lujjgelting the expediency of
some alterations in its establishment, to render it
less expensive to the public, mure accommo
dating to dipofitors. The report is accompanied
with statements of ihe gold, filvei and eoppercoins,
iflued from the Mint, from its commencement to
the 24th of the lift month, accounts of the gold
and silver bullion, which has been deposited, and
an account of wattage, and a deficit in the silver
coinage, which require an appropriation of two
thousand eight hundred and twenty dollars and
seventy one cents, to reimburse depositors.
I am, with great refpedt,
Sir,
Your moil obedient servant,
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
The SpEAKER,'of the House of"l
Representatives of the >
United States. j
Mint of the Unitfd States,
November 29, 1796.
Sir,
I HAVE the honor of inclosing for the Prefi
dent of the United States, my report on the
State of the Mint, with the abttra&s referred to
therein.
With sentiments of esteem and refpeft,
1 remain,
Sir,
Your most obedient, and very
humble servant,
. ' ELIAS BOUBINOT.
To the Secretary of State.
* —
The Director of the Mint of the United States,
refpettfu'.ly reports to the President of the United
Statfesori the (late of the Mint—
THAT during the experience of twelve months,
he has turned his attention (as far at has been i»
hispowe ) to the inilitution under his care. He
has seen, with regret, an opinion generally pre
vailing, that the eftablilhment is Hu-neceflarily ex
pensive, and less produ&ive than was rationally
txpe&ed by its advocates and friends.
The Director finding forne foundation for the
charge, has endeavoured to discover the cause, as
nothing appears in the general nature of the mfti
tution, to warrant the idea.
The ifTue of the enquiry is, that the extraordi
nary expeaces attending the Mint, are, in a great
meafnre, owing to its original plan and the prin
ciples 01 \rhich it was etiablifhed. Among others,
the whole coinage, including the refinement of the
precious metals, was directed by law to be executed
at the public expence, the depolitor being fully
indemnified ftom all charges whatever : On this
principle, not only the cliginal cost of the works,
and the falariet of the stated officers, fall en the
public ; birt also the whole amount of the work
manship, with the alloy, waftagc and contingent
sxpences.
The want of experimental knowledge in the
bufir.efs, at the Srft establishment of the Mint,
prevented any tolerable precise estimate of the cx
pences necefferily process; but soon
after the commencement of the Kwfinefa, it was
found impracticable to proceed with propriety,
unless an addition was made to the elhblilhment by
the appointment of a melter and refiner.
This important and neceflary officer, is not
krmwn in foreign Mints, as the p-ecious metals are
. there gen«rally deposited of the proper ftaadard, or
above it ; er they are purchased by the Mint, and !
become public property; there being profefiional
refiners and independent of the Mint, vvhofe business
it is to purify metals under standard ; but there
being 110 such artiils in this city who follow the
. business, it became indispensably neceflary to Exe
cute this service in the Mint.
This circumllance was not forefeen, or if fore
feen, was considered as included in the duties of
t the aflayer ; but the neceflKTy of so .essential aeheck j
1 on that officer, forbad this meaiure, had it been
1 othefwife practicable. This added eonfiderably to
' the annual expences of the Minr.
Formerly the Director' could not make any
' charge .for this process, aefcinft depositors ; the
! whole expence therefore fell 09 the public. Thus
on assaying one dopofit of about 96,000 oz. of lilver
bullion, it turned out near 24,0010 oz. under stand
ard; to refine which, it coli the United States
. upwards of 5001. so that the depositor peally gained
that sum, by bringing his bullion t<j the Mint.
This operated very unequally among the depelitois.
The citizen who brought bullion in this debased
' state, to the Mint, received a3 much co'in for the
standard silver therein, as h- whose bullion was
previously refined equal to the standard, and ready
. for coining at a very trifling expend.
Again—The inftit'utioa of the mint, without
any appropriation of capital, either to purchase
the precious metals in bullian, and anticipate psy
ments dueon deposits, or to coin for the public,
has been another caufc of considerable expence.
. Depending upon depositors alone for the precious
metals.it became neceflary for their encouragement
t and iatisfaflion to coin every depefit as soon as pof
, fible after it tame into the treasury of the mint, to
; prevent its remaining unproductive to the deposit*
s or ; by which mems the clippings and grains were
. obliged to be -melted and coined as they arose, of
-1 ten th'ee or four times for one deposit.
Tints the melting, refining and coihing one de
pcfit oi 20c oz. of silver, or 20 oz. of gold, would
cost the public as much as near 1000 oz. of either,
and a much cteater proportional wattage ; whereas
l | could the bullion be purchased foi the public at the
market price, and kept in the vaults till a large
t ; quantity might be coined at once, or a capital of
about ten thousand dollars be flowed to the mint,
so as to anticipate the payments to depositors,
without being obliged to an immediate coinage on
f every occasion, a very gieat public saving would
take place, not only as to the wastage, but in the
expenditure of the materials and labor used in the
process, oiid no injury done to the United- States,
bat mtlifloan of the tnuaey fur s (Wt time. In
a word, the drfferance would be qnuch the fame, as
between the wholel'ale merchant and the hiickfter.
This measure would also have a tendency to fix
the jTiice of bullion, and indemnify the public for
fomt-part ttf the expence v of coinage. The only
qucftion that would arile t3, whether, on the prin
ciple of economy, it would be a prudent measure
on the part of government ? Stippofe the exptnees
of coinage, incluJing wattage, tobe fixed at three
per centum to the depositor, while in foreign coun
tties'it colts nothing. The consequence would be,
that bullion in America, might vary its (.rice three
per cent, according to the balance of trade ; while
bullion in those ct-untries must be supposed invaria
ble in its pric*", let the balance »f trade (land at it
will. BulHim then, in those countries will always
be at the highest price it ever can be at in America,
since it is the price of coin { but in America it may
be three per cent. lower. If theiefore the.United
States, by coining, free of all expense, contribute
to keep the price of bullion higher than it is in
countries where the coinage is paid for, a volunta
ry expent-e is.created, of which there Gaii be no
jull rcafon to complain.
A representation of some of these difficulties,
with the dangerous fituatioH of the mint, for want
of protesting laws to fecurs the inliruments of
coinage, the metals and the cois, as also to prevent
counterfeits, has been heretofore jnade by the *01-
cersof the mint, without little other fuccels (.ban
a rcl'olution of Congress, enabling the dire&oMo
retain the cxpifnce of refining the precious metals
under (iandard ; but the waltage, alloy and coin
age, are (till dead charges on the public treasury.
While therefore this policy, on the whole, is
considered as beneficial to the United States, the
complaint againtt the mint for if* heavv -expences
to the public, are without solid foundation, as it
is impoffiblc to carry on an inflitution of this na-
under these eircuinftancet, and which requires
from 15 to 29 workmen and laborers to attend it,
without great expence. Add to this, that the al
loy of silver and copper, with the loss by neceflary
waltpge, must unavoidably rife to a coniiderable
annual amount.
But these and ether difficulties
attending an Infant inilitution, the late
great advance in the prices of materials and labor,
the aggregate expeoces of are greatly re
duced, either from the superior knowledge of the
persons employed, gained by experience, or frjom
new arrangements found to be more advantageous
than those made on the spur of the occasion. This
will appear mure evident, by a view of the pre
greffive reduction of the contingent expences in
the quarterly accounts rendered into the treasury
department, and it is hoped that there will be a
farther prbgreft in this dcfirable economy.
When theprefent diredtor entered upon the ad
ministration as the mint, there was no appropria
tion of money for the purchase of copper , for the
coinage of-cents. This he clearly fortfaw would
prove a fourceof farther expence, by often leaving
the workmen without employ. He made applica
tion to Congress by their eommittce, on (his fub
jett ; but all that was obtained was thirteen thou
sand dollars, which was coined into cents, and re
turned into the public treasury, or remitted for the
purchase of copper, before the rising of Congress
the latt spring. No farther appropriation was
made, till it was too late to procure the#rtecefTary
irr.poitaiton of copper for the I'ummer'i coinage,
whereby much time has been loft, and foms consi
derable expence of workmen has been added to the
fummsr's account.
It is now hoped, from the present arrangement,
no such inconvenience will "arise hereafter; but a
continual and ample supply as copper coinage be
produced adequate to the public wants.
As the laws relative to ihe Mint now ftartd, the of
ficers are obliged to pay to each depositor the coins,
aritingfrem hit deposit, fn ftri<st order, and to reserve
three pieces of coin trern each nufs ; yet no appropri
ation has been made to replace the reserves, or to make
good the waftape ; it is therefore impossible for the
officer* of the Mint to conjpiy with .he law j and the
depositors cjjmplain of being kept out of their property,
till provision is made ry Congrtfiifor their relief.
By a number of new half johannes brought ,to the
Mini for afiayiirg, said to have been coined in the Uni
ted States, it appears that J coinage for that purpose is
carried on in fomc slate in the Union, Some as these
are found to be under standard in their quality, and
between two and threepenny-weights less than their
true weight. These are fatfs which the Director
thinks it his duty tocommunicatcto the President.
From the various experiments made since the estab
lishment of the Mint, it is found unnecessary to make
ufc of silver in alloying oi gold, unless it is for the pur
pc£-of beautifying the coin; in which cafa it (hoald
be composed at the proportion of one-third silver to
two thirds copper.
By the following abilraft of the bullion and coin re
ceived and issued from the Mint,-fince its firft eltablifh
rntnt, may be fee.-,, as well the nature of the deposits
mad;, as the coins returned to the Trcjfurer, and the
dates of the receipts a£d issues to this day, with the
amount of the copper coinage.
From this it appears, that there is due for wastage.
during that period, the quantity of fifteen hundred and
ninety-nine ounces, fixtcen penny-weigkis and fifteen
grains, of silver, equal to eighteen hundred and forty
five dollars, ninety-five cents and five mills ; besides a
(icfirit of eight hirndred Jltid forty four ounces, fereu
teen penny-weights and five grains of silver, equal to
n'me hundred aild seventy-sour dollars, feventy-five
centiand sue mills; making in the whole two thou
faiid eight hundred and twenty dollars and l'eventy one
cents ; for which an appropriation ought to be made by
law to fatisfy a deficient deposit.
The Director thinks it neceflary to-mention, in ex
culpation of the former officer* of the Mint, that by a
report made on this l"ubje&, it appears that there is yet
conliderable quantity of old pots arid telt bottoms,
from which it it expefled (hat Nearly the amount of the
deficient silver, as stated above. will be extracted.
ELIAS BOUDINOT.
Miilt of the United States,
29th November, 1796.
Denomination and value of Coins, issued from' the
Mint of the Unitetl States, from the commencement
of the eltablifhment, to Nov. 24, 1796.
?c-5 Eagles, i2,r06 Half Eagles, 66 quar
ter Eagles, Value 146,445 Dollars
Silvlr.— 271,941 Dollars, 323,144 Half Dollars,
5 594 Quarter Dollars, 22,135 Difmes, 96,646 Half
Difmes, Value 443,032 Dollars, 30 Cents.
C0p.ptR.—4,040,753 Cents, 258,014 Half Cents,
Value 21,697 Dollars, 40 Cents,
There has lyen deposited at the Mint (for coinage)
frarrt the commencement of the ellablilli.aent to .N.v
14th, 1797 —10,670 aunces, 10 penny-weights ami 13
grains of golchbaHiwn, gross weigtic; being 9,837 oun
ces a»d 14 grains, flandai'd weight—and offiiver bul
lion, 416,89 a ounces and 1$ p«nriy weights grol'j
weight; being 40i,j0» ounces and 19 penny-weight*,
standard weight. t
m —
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, January 3.
Mr. Bwigjst Foftcr, from the committee of
claims, made rep ;on the petition* of Jame*
Betts, John Day, William Caldwell atid John arid
Elizabeth London, which were againfl the petiti
oners, were twice read, and concurred in by the
house.
Mr. Coit, from the committee to whom it was
referred to report their opinion on the equity and
expediency of extending the allowance made to
the reprefrptatives of soldiers in the late army,
whi* were fiyn by the enemy, to the reprefentativet
of those who died in the service, reported that no
confideratios ef expediency or equity would jufti
fj or require the extealiou contemplated in the re
ference.
Petitions were presented fiom John Stadles, Wil
liam Brown, and William Mackay, for compenfa*
tion fdr tbeir services during the war, vvhic'h were
severally referred to the committee o£ claims.
Mr. Swanwick, from the committee of cem
merce and manufa&sres, made reports on the pe
titions of John Jewel, Lewis H. Guirlame, Willi
am Uftick, jun. and for the remif
fios of duties 011 merchandize destroyed by the late
fire at New York, which were to this effect that
it wonld be introducing- a dangerous piinciple to
the the United States, to grant relief
in cases of this kind, which were more the obje£t»
of private i.ifurance, than of public contribution."
The prayers of the petitioners therefore rejec
ted. The house soncurred. Mr. Swanwick, from
the sams committee, also repo<ud ea the petitiou
of Jeremiah Cecil, and others, pilots within the
Chefapeak bay, praying that a law rpijjlit be palled
to regulate uniformly the conduct ef pilots through
out the United States, that though they did not
conceive it necefiary at present to pass a law to re
gulate thecondud of pilots throughout the Union,
they thought it would be ufeful to pass a law for
the regulation of the conduit of pilots in the \ya-t
ters of the Chrfapeak, and recommended a refulu.-
tion to that effeit, which was agreed to, and refer
red baek to the committee to bring in a bill.*
Mr. Swanwick also reported on the petition of
Bartholomew Satazen, a fufferer by fire at Cape-
Francoi§ t that, during the prefrnt- negociation
witW the French republic, no ileps could be taken
with refpeft to this and other petitioners to the
fame efleft. The prayer was therefore recommen
ded not to be granted, and the house concurred.
Mr. Grifwold, from the committee to whom was
referred the petition of Amos Ayles, prayiug to
be put 111 poflrflion of certain lan'Js to which he
profeffes te have a claim, made a report. The re
port was againll the petitioner ; but, upon motion
of Mr. G. Jackfen, who was of opinion tha peti
tioner was entitled to the lands in queflion, Slid that
if a little given he could prove it to'the
fatisfa£hon of the house, the decision upon the re
port was poltponed to the firft Monday in Februa
ry-
On motion of Mr. Swanwick, so much of the
report of the committee of commerce and manu
fa&ures as related to the petition of Aaron Shef
field, on the ground of hew evidence being recei
ved, was re-committed to that committee.
The #rder of the day, on the report of the
committee of ways and means on the fubje£t of cer
tain balances due from individual Hates to the Uni
ted States, was entered upon, and a very h»ng de
bate took place. After several attempts to get the
business postponed, which were the house
went into a committee of the whole on 'he resolu
tions as reported ; ?M, after so we debate, the
committee rose, and obtained leave to lit again.
Mr. Parker, from the committee appointed t©
wait upon the Picfider.t of the United States with
the resolution calling for information refpeaingthe
treaty with the dey and regency of Algiers, re
ported, that they had waited upon the President ac
cording to appoint mtr,t r and had received an an
swer according to this effed : » That the President
« f the United Stales, before he had heard of the
rtfolutioß, had direfled the papers to be made out,
and that when ready he would direst them to be
fenl to the house of reprefearatives."
Mr. Harper said, that a report had been made
by thi secretary of the treasury during the last frf.
fionof abatement of the internal Tevenue of the
United Stares, with an account of the collection of,
expence* &c- He said it was a mere temporary
order, but, as it was desirable information, he
thought it would be well for the house to be fur
nilhed with a similar statement tfy«iy feflion, he
proposed a resolution to that efTed, which was a
greed to.
Mr. W. Smith from the committee of ways and
means, made a report on the provilion nec«fl"ary
for improving and effedtiallv fkcuring the internal
revenue#, recommending the abolifliiug of the tax
upon spirits, in certain cases, and laying it upon
the Hills according to their Capacity.
Mr. S. from the lame committee, also reported,
that having taken into contideration the jfubjed „f
railing farther revSHue, and the report of the fe-
T.kYfi the trC f fury thereo "' thc y nx-oinmend.
Ed the following dired taxes, viz.
A tax ad valorem on all lands with their im
provemants, with ecrtain exceptions, including
town lots, «•
Ditto on slaves, with certain exceptions.
The leport was twice read, and atler foVne ep
pofinon ,0 the day as being to» early , rora M r.
Craik, who w.fhed to confylt l^ s confidents on
this bufanefs, it. was made the o;der for Monday
next. '
Mr, Blount laid a resolution on the table for the
pm-pofe of making some alterations in a law whick
relpected the importation of goods into Noith-Ca
toima. Adjourned.Phi ladelphia, d
SATURDAY EVENING, JANUARY 14, 179;.
* * The length, inaccuracy, and uninttnjl\r,£ nature, •[ tll r
piece signed " W. L." prevent its appearance.
Major Thomas, Pinckney is arrived at Charleston ' :
from London. "
t
Pennfylvtnia Population Com/any.
At an annual meeting of the Stockholders, the sal- (
lowing gentlemen were elected, viz. f
President, John Nichelfon, c
Managers, Theophile Cazenove,, e
John Field, n
Samuel Sterett, v
Robert Bo wire, - t
James Gibfoit, [-
Judah a
Treasurer and Sacretary, Salomon Maraehe-
January 11, 1797- (
At a meeting of the Merchants and Traders of this I
iSty, held at the Coffee-Uoufe, yejlerday, the following
memorial was adopted :
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the
State of Pennfyvania.
THE Ml MO RIAL
f-f the Subfcnhers, Merchants and Traders of the Ci
ty of Philadelphia.
Refbeßfully Jheiuetb —
THAT th# ait of Defalcation, pafled in the year
1705, is in iti operation, vpry prejudicial to the ctorn- '
mercial and agricultural interest of the State.
The extenlicn of commerce, ahd the eftablilhnaent
of banks to facilitate the operations of mercantile men,
neeeffarily introduce the circulation of a paper cur
rency, which, coming iu aid of the monied capital, is
3 p®werf«l auxiliary in support of the various depart
ments of agriculture, manufactures, and commerce :
hence, in almost ever Commercial country we find a
paper currency of a negotiable nature ; but in Penn
sylvania, although custom has given such a paper a
general circulation, yet tha aA alluded to, leaves it
\in fame infiances) in the power of individuals to vio
late the implied principle oil which it is iflued, to the
treat injury of honest and unfulpefting men.
Your meinorialifts therefore lubmit to your serious
confutation, the propriety of repealing so much of the
aft for Defalcation ns relates to promiffery notes and
inland bills of exchange: or, the palling of a law, de
elaring, that allpromilTory notes, baaringdate within
the Cti'y of Philadelphia, and all inland bills accepted
within the fame, ihall be negotiable, without plea of
defalcation or set nff.
. Philadelphia, January ij, 1797-
Says a Correspondent:
The Jacobins areextiemely aflive in accounting
tr the present hostile afpeft of France from thr
ritifli treaty—Say they, this is what yonr treaty
has produced—The French arc very angry—they
tike yeui vessels and they insult your government
—This is true—they do take our veffeTs—they in
sulted the people and their government —but it it
alked modestly—How long has Fiance denethn to
their dear friends ?—Ever finee the spring '93—
long before the Britilh treaty. It is farcical to mea
sure the grand fcheir.e of French ambu.on by so
minute a rule—They mean ta force all neutral na
tions to be the infti timeats of their vast ambition —
Those whom they cannot seduce to their own de
flation, they will brow-beat and insult—Our
crime is that we are really an independent nation—
not tobefeduced, and we are therefore'to be crip
pled as a people useless to their fchcnae.
legislature of south Carolina.
$ December 15.
A motion wfs made and ieconded» that 5000
dollars be inserted in the eftimSte, as a contribution
for the relief of the fufferers by fire in the ctir of
Charleston, m the months of May asd June lad—
on the queUion being put to agiee to the fame, the
ayes and «oe9 required by seven members, and
ate as follow Ayes 47—Noes 46.
In the House tf Representatives of the State oj South
Carolina, Dec. 19, 1
The following resolution was moved in the House
•®f Representatives of South Carolina by Mr. H.
"W Defauffore, and after an opposition from Ma
jor Butler and Mr, Ephraim tamf.y, was earned
without a divihoti. . .
»i 'X'he President of the Unitsd States having an
nounced to his fellow citizens, his determination to
decline a rc-eleftion ta the important ofhee of chic
magistrate, this house cannot behold the event of
his leaving the public service, which has t eeii Ung
deprecated by his country, without giving cxpreffion
to its feelings.
•• Be it therefore resolved, that the great merit.
and difintorefted services ef GEORQK WASH
INGTON, President of the United States, have
infp.red this House with the mott lively feelings of
atfe&ionate attachment and gratitude to him.
"That this house emei tains the moll exalted
fen£e of his great and excellent eharader, eltablilli
ed on the udpeiifhable foundations of virme, honor
and talents, long employed in the ferv.ee of bis
country ; and that it will cher.lh the memo.y of
his worth with proud affection.
« That be carries with him into the retirement
he leeks, the ardent wilhes of thifr-boufe, for a long
ai)d uninterrupted coinfe of happtnefs.
" Resolved, that the Speaker be requeued to
traefmit tothe President, this tetl.mony of the pub
lic opinion and ftfpeft of bis fellow-cU,»en.
Ordered, that the refolut.ons be engrossed, and
J tkat Mr. Speaker do transmit them to George Wa
(liington, Prefi»«t of the United States.
A fmiilar resolution was moved in the Senate,
and carried ananimonfly.
By this day's Mail.
NEW.YORK, January 13.
The European Intelligence, received by the
route of Halifax, and given in this day s Adver
tiser, though it is not later than that re «£ e ,
the late arnval at N. London, has furmfced us
with important articles which have not yet been de,
tailed from thatquarter.
■ The oaiem, ■».
terdam on the 14th November, o: the > n j 7
oi Eord Malmefbury's m.ffion mufti be -" e ""
tort U could have been more ealily known a
London on the 17th (the last date trom thcuce)
from Lord Maltaefbury himfelf, than by the vague
report of ths other circuitous route. The Laa- j
don accounts state that he was still at Paris, and
that he had not anly dispatched couriers to his own
court, but also to Vienna and elsewhere'—the re- (
turnsof whom would mod probablv be waited for, (
before the negotiation would be entirely reje&ed. i
The capture of the Spanish island of Minorca, i
by Admiral Jervis, if true, must prove a valuable
acquisition in the Mediterranean, after the evacua
tion of Corsica. t
The port of Mahon affords a fine harbor, and f
the island produces a considerable quantity of ne
ceffary articles of supply. This capture is render j
ed more probable by a circumstance which baa been a
mentioned to us from good authoriiy, that the x
works of cadleof St. Philip, the ft tanged for- (
tress in the island, have heen mostly demolished, I
since the conquest of it by the Spanish in 1782 — v
and that a greater body of troops was requisite for t
its defcnce, than was grabably llatianed there at c
the time.' i
Result tf the Uanvafs for Representatives in Con- r
grefs, for the IVeJlem DtflriS. t
Cooper. Cochran,
f Ontarjo, 41 320 t
r-j j Herkemer, 1069 1086 f
« ! Onondago, ' 51 ' 197 f
I Montgomery, 289 1046 r
"* I Tioga, r 9 169 i
( Otfego, 1481 . 252
Town of Durlock, in the") f
County of Sehoharie, J i
(
" ' 2975 2993
< 2 975 f
(
Majority for James Cochran, 18 -
Result of the Canvajs in /Many Diftriß. f
s Glenn. Swart. ]
fitssr - } '"»■
5 (.Albany, 313
342 138
■
Majority for Glenn 160
It is said Lord Malmeflniry has sent two couri
ers, with important difpatcht* to the Emperar.
A in the Prince Edward, saw a Lon- ,
don paper at Deal, of the 28th ult. A paragraph
tn which stated, that Be>,ooo troops an<* 18 ships
• of the line were lying at Brest, preparatory to an |
' intended invasion of Great-Bricain, fnould the ne
gociaiion fail. « '
r The French have long contented themfcvei with
' talking about this favourite expedition.
Same difrefpeAful paragraphs having appeared
1 in a Paris paper, relative to the million of Lord
5 Malrnefbury, his Lordlhip complained of this to
" the directory, as an insult—and was aafvVered—
as it is said, that, that body held no authority to
3 contrail! the French papeis.
From every thing we have been able to collect,
• it is not thought, that the French dire&ury will lif.
" ten to such terms as Great-Detain may coi-defcend
r to grant ; in short, that there is, on the whole, lit -
" tie profpeft of an early peace.
The following is a lift of the Dutch fleet, under
rear admiral Lucas, which surrendered 011 the 17th
of Atyruft, to a fqtiadron of his maje&y's (hips,
• commanded by the hon. Sir G. K. Elphinftone,
K. B. in Salona Bay. »
3 Dordrecht, Rear Admiral Lucas, 66 guns ; Re
n volution, Capt. Rhcneheade, 66 guns ; Admiral
'f Tromp, Capt. Valker.bwrgf 54 guns ; Callhor,
" _Capt. ClarifTe, 44 stuns ; Bellona, Capt. Valk, 28
c "guns j Sirence, Capt. De Cere, 26 guns ; Havik,
Capt. Bexemer, 18 guns; and Maria, floreffiip.—
Total 342 guns—l 972 troops and fi'amen.
4 The Ihips under admiral Elphinllone, were
Monarch, Tremendous, America, Stately, Ru
k by, Sceptre, Tridcgt, Jupiter, Crescent, Sphynx,
'• Molelle, llattlefnake, Echo, Hope.
l * Yesterday arrived heiehis majeily's frigate An
d drome na, captain Taylor, in 52 days paffaje fr< m
England. ' E Haiifsx pipe'".]
1- fomet'me since stated that Morfcau had retreated
a, toStocknach and Fieybourgh, instead of retiring by
tf Huningue, as it \ra» supposed he would. In retreating
j to Freybourg his design was to rt-,erofs the' Uhine at
J K«hl and Strafbiirgh to prmeil those places, and pcr
haps to retain pofleflion of the right bank of the Rhine
10 in'the Brifgaw. With this view he had marched as far
as Freybourg. Here the Archduke attacked him on tht
ts 19th, and after an obstinate conflict in whieh the Arc
h duke behaved with great persona! gallantry, theFremh
, e ppfts were defeated, and their army compelled to rt
f tire, with the loss of 1000 prifoncrs and probably about
8 half that number in killed and wounded. Moreau still
entertained.hopes of maintaining himfelf on the right
;4 ' bank of the .Rhine, and polled himfelf adv,intageou(ly
h for that purp«ie ; but the Auftrians having made difpo
sr fitions to attack him on the 24th, he again retired,
lis and retreated acrofi the Rhine into France on the a6th,
c f still keeping polTeflion of the strong head of the bridge
at Huningue, by which he secures a paffajje into Ger
many.
From the 18th to the 26th there seems ta have been
'£ couritinual aflions of posts, in which the»Auftiians
generally had the advantage ; but at 110 time, not even
to on the 19th did the French fufl'er a complete defeat,
b- The next object oT the Arahduke, it is said, will be
the capture of lCehl, in which he will probably fuc
,j ceed. _ t '
An army of 18000 Sapniards will it is said co-operate
a * with Buonaparte in Italy.
The Spanilh Declaration of war against Great Bri
e» tain, was received by the Dutch Convention on the
11ft of Odlaber.
ARRIVED. days.
Ship Alexander Hamilton, Cotfjjar, Liverpool, 53
New-York, Clark, Halifax, —
Vi&ory, Henry, Gnadzloupe, 42
Mary, Smith,' Efiequeba, —
he Barque'Letitia, Burke-, Bordeiux, 62
■r- Brig Diligence, Ware Jeremie
by Betsey, Tyler Aux Cayes
us Apollo, Robinfoii, Savannah, 11
, Hope, Carlifte, Halifax, —
_ Jane -and Eliza, Heatly, Wilmington, N. C. —
Schooner Hope, Caok Martinique
5t Ariel, Mitchell Turks-lfland
cy Sloop Minerva, , Jamaica, 3®
re ~ Captain Heatley spoke tha brig Columbia of New
at York, December 31, 12 leagues S.E. of Sandy-Hook,
;e) 20 days from tlir Havannah, far Philatelphia.
' The frhoooir Sally, Captain Cladvvriglit, spake the
brig Dean, Captain Stanford, on the 7th instant, 11
leagues Eift of §andy Hook, all well, on a cruize
after veflels in diflrefs.
Captain Bunker has very poiitely handed us Bor
deaux papers to November 2 inclusive .from which we
(ball give some extracts to-morrow. Tho' they are
not so late as papers before received, we find several
important articles ncft yet putlilhei!.
Captain Bunker did not hear of any Americafi veflil
being taken by the French.
Captain Bunker mtt in the river Gironne, going
up to Bordeaux, a large Scotch built (hip, who in
formed, th.it (be \fraj a prize to Admiral Richery.
Arrived (hip Indoftan, Capt. Lewis, si New- 1
port, JR. I.) in 56 days from the Ifleof France, 1
and 55 days to the coa!4, experienced the most fe 1
vert winds 40 days without iiltermiflion. The '
(hip Northern Liberties failed 22 days before the
lndoftan, for Philadelphia, as also 18 or 20 fail of 1
veflels for the continent. Spoke the (hip Fame, 1
the nth December, three days out, who supplied
captain Lewis with provisions. On his lirft mak
ing the coalt, was chaccd by'n (loop as war er Ber
mudian priva eer, mounting 24 guns, for 36 hours, '
but (he could no t come up with him.
Lad evening arrived the (hip Alexander Hatnil- '
ten, CapU Congar, from LivcrpaolAs this '
(hip failed on the 23d of November, we cannot ex- (
pefl much later intelligence, than what we have al- 1
ready received by the Hape, New-Lan- '
don. (
Schooner Attive, Wilcox, from NewiOrleans, '
failed 1 Bth December ; left there, '
Brig Hope, Dunn, to fail for New-York in 15 '
or 20 days. 1
December 30, Ipnke the fliip Prudence, Pen- .
field, in the river, two leagues above Plackmencs }
(hip James, Bennet, failed ftpm the on the
2lit December.
Same day arrived (hip Theodore, Berryman,
from Charlelto#—Capt. Btfrryman touched at the
Havanna, and informs, that an embargo had taken ,
place.
HALIFAX, December 24.
Lnft evening the (hip Prince Edward, capiain Wil
lis, arrived here from London. She has had 30
days paflage from the Dowfis. By this (hip we
have'received London papers to the 15th ult.
LONDON, November 14.
The London Gaz«tte of November 13, contains
a series of letters from captain Auftruther-and R.
Crauford, Esq. !rom the 17th to the 27th of Oc
tober, givi' g detail of a number of successive ac
tions, uhftmate and bloody, !>ut fortunate to the
Aiittrians. The following is the latt of the letters
aliu ed to :
Head-Quarters of his royal highness the archduke
Charles ef Aultrih, Mappach, O&ober 27,
1796.
My Lord, /
1 have the honor to inform your loidfhip, that
in the course niirht, general Morean's army
retreated accrofs the Rhine at Hunningen.
The last of his rear yuard was this morning still
on the heights of Wciliet, on which he .had eon- .
ftru&ed a large and solid woik ; but, after a little
fkirmiihing with the Hutfars, they evacuated the
height and redoubt before any infantry could come
up ; and nothing now remains on this tide of the
river, but a few troops iu a small Tele de Ponte,
behind which is a kind of horn work, latelv con
drudted an the island, and called Shueter Intel.
I have the honor to be, &c.
(Signed) ROBERT CRAUFORD.
D'ip itches have been received by government
from .Gibraltar, which (late, that on the evening
oftne 17th of O&ober, the Spamth batteries, con
fiding of 350 pieces ol heavy artillery were ex
pected to commence playing against the fortrefs,
which, however, w:;s in so excellent a ttate of de
fence, that sot the lmalleft apprehension was en
tertained for its fafety.
The garrifun at Gibraltar, according to the re
port lately made, cotfifts of near 7000 effe&ive
men. The corps and commands are as follow :
Garrison bitta'iwn, commanded by colonel Frafer;
aßih regiment ot foot, colonel Paget ; 37th* co
lonel Buchanan ; <J2d', colonel Dexin ; 70th,
colonel MoncriefF ; and tooth, major Napier; co
lonel marquis liuntly being absent with the aitil
lery bombadiers. >
Letter#from Italy and Tyrol, down to the 22d
ultimo, by way of Vienna, bring intelligence, that
the Auilria# general Alvinzi arrived at Trieste on
the 14th ultimo, and was preparing to march to
the relief of Mantua through Friouli. Generals
Quofdannovaah, Hohenzellern, Provers, Pittani,
Suotcht and Mitroflu, commanded different divi
fiont of the army ; Mitroflfi had already advanced
•n the Venetian territory e» the 16th. Three
English frigates of 38, 36 and 32 guns, had ar
rived at Triette.
The Aultrian army, nnder general Alvinzi, had
already penetrated to both banks of the Pinaoa, on
the 18th, and the want of Pontons had delayed
his advancing farther against Buonaparte.
, The island of Minorca is reported to be taken by
1 fir John jervis's fleet, atfilted by th« troops frotri
1 Corsica.
1 Letters from Cologne of October 28, state, that
. general Hoche will probably obtain the command of
. the army of the Nort^.
1 From the London Gazette.
: ' Admiralty Office, October 15.
Extract of a letter from Captain Mowart, of hit
Majelty'a (hip Afijftance, dated Halifax, Sept.
; 14. '9 6 -
" I have to acquaint you, for the information of
' my lords Commifiioners of the Admiralty, that on
the 28th of lalt month, about 4 leagues E* S. E.
t from Cape Henry-in Virginia, the Thitbe who had
- been sent to look out in the E. N. E. quarter, a
t little after 5 in the rhori.ing, made the iignal for
: three ttrange ships being in the E. S» E. The
s Bermuda, who had been in chafe of a brig the e
-1 veiling belore in that quarter, and who was 7 or 8
miles nearer the (trance (hips than any of the squa
dron, the Thitbe excepted, repeated or made the
llgnal, that the (hips seen were the enemy's ships )
upon which the Admiral immediately made the sig
nal for a general chace. The squadron was then
, comjpled of the flag (hip, (he Aflirtance, Thetii
Thilbe, Twpfi, and Cermuds- So very light was
the breez?, arid withal partial, that the (hips did
not steer for sometime. The Topaze was the firfl
(hip that had ihe breeze, the Thetis being at some
distance fr»m her was the next, and the flag (hip
foen after. The squadron continued in pursuit,
and about half part five in the evening the Tspaz,
brought the nearest (hip to adlion, upon -which he
returned a broadlide and hauled down his colours.
The Bermuda being near, bore down to the prize,
& the signal was made to take pofTef
fion of her. The flag ship and the frigates, without
a moment's loss of time, continued to chace the
other two The Admiral's verbal message
te me by capr. Maxtone, was to proceed to Hali
fax, with the prize ; upon my taking pofleffion ot
her I found her ta be the l'Elizabe'h, mounting
36 guns, 24 pounders an her main deck, and 12
nines on her quarter dec£ and forecalile, a large
ship, said to bf about 1000 tons."
RICHMOND, January 9. .
Lad Weduefday night, an attempt was maJe
by feme daring villains te get into the treasury of*
sice of this (late.—They made their way good
through the outer doer, by cutting two holes near
the upper and lower bolts, large enough to admit
one of their hands—by which means they gat out
the two large bolts. After getting into the pas
sage, they drove a large wedge between the folding
outward door of the treasury canfiderably above
the lock, and forced it wide enough to get a crow
bar in.—Befng alarmed (as is conjedured) they
defilled and lrft the implements (landing in the
doors as above described till next morning.
, __
Women's Cloaks. x
GEORGE DOBSOM,
No. 25, South Third-street,
Ha« just reeeived, pet Eagle* Capt. Fofiick, tia I.wi*
don, an assortment of
Scarlc*
" 'Drab / Cloaks trimmed with fur and
v Purple and { ermine.
Pearl J
December 5 . .
WM. HAT DON,
Drawing-Master, from London,
Where he has studied several years under one of
the most eminent matters in that science, attends
young Ladico and Gentlemen at their refpefhve hemes.
His terms are 6 dollars per month for attendance three
.times per week. Likewise all kinds of ornamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, &c. taught on the above
terms. A line dife&ed to W. H. leit with the Editor
of this Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
January 13. toivr
BALL.
Netib Cotillions, Scotch Reelt, and Centre Dancet.
Messrs. Francis and Byrn beg leave to inform their
Scholars, friends, and the public in general, that tlieir
I firft Ball for this feafou will be on Tuesday, the 14, at
' )'Ellers's affembly-ruom ; at which a variety of ne,w
Cotillions, Contre Danees, and the most celebrated
Scotch Reels, will be iutfjduced.
Meßis. Francis and Byrn propose to give gratuitous
attendance at thV'ir school room, for the inftrudion of
those Ladies and Gentlemen in their rtew danccs, who
mean to.hott#r the ball room with their prefjnee,—at
tendance for this purpose after their school hours, on
Tueldays, and '1 hufldays.
Tickcts to be had of Meflrs. Frances and Byrn No.
70, North Eight ltreet, or at O'Ellers's Hotel. La
dies are requcfted to apply to their female friends,
scholars of Messrs. F. & B. or as above, at their resi
dence.
N. B. The new dances will not infringe upon the
usual routine of the evening.
The days of teaching for their young pupils are Thurf
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon
till fix—and on Tueldays & Thursdays, from fix till nine,
for those of a mors advanced age.
*„* Private tuition as usual.
January 11, 1797- iawt24.
Cheap French China.
THE subscribers finding it impossible to supply their
store with any -more China from Fhince, the prices
being too immoderate in the matiufaflories, give no
tice that they will foil at priaie colt the remaining
Heck tn hand, confiding of
Dessert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate and Saucers
Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vases
Looking (Siaffes, in gilt frames,
Befidci India Japan'd Toilet Delks, Chairs, Table*
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER & Co.
No. 91, South Second-street.
December ?rfi. ***
fOR SALE,
- A. very Valuable Ellate,
CALLED TWITTJLNHAM, situate in the
townihip of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road -.containing 230 aires of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of the firtt quality. There arc
on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-weil
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, (tables'
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and (tone,
spring-house ; two good apple orehards, and one of peach
es. The fields are allin clover, except those immediately
and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con*
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the higlj
sultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and th«
vicinity to the city, it is very fuitsable for a gentleman'!
country feai*
The foregoing is part of the eftatc of Jacob Hirman,
JhceafCd, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
OA' 31. law Surviving Executor.
- . James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth-Jlreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement«
and begs le»ve to foiicit a continuance of their favors.
He has 00 hand an extensive assortment of the
MoH Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable fc r the season.
At this fliop Gentlemen can be fur- flted with the belt
materials, and have thorn made up in '.he nested and most
Falhionable manner, and on the (hor eft notice. He will
' thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt at (I
1 punctual attention;, to them,
1 Nov. tab cr 10. wsFor Sale
- contraß, a very vat-Julie EJlatt, Imwn by
the name »f
C H A T H A M,
MOST delightfully situated on the worth bank ofßap
r hanock river, opposite the town of Fredenckfburg, in
ihrflace of Virginia, confiiking of eleven or fifteen hun
dred aCrefe, as may -befl suit the purchaser. riiere is on i
tHi* eflate, a large and well built brick house containing
nine commodious rooms/ exclufiveot a spacious hall or en
try, a a feet fqtiare, two pair ot stairs, suitable and conven
ient, pafiagei, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine healthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in
every direction over the towns of Fredcrickfburgh and
ifaliAoutfi, and an extensive cultivated country.—The
-grounds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleas
ure ifnd kitchen gardens interspersed with a variety of
lcarce trees, achoicc collection flowers aHd flowering
fnrubs, and enriched ity various forts of the following
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, chefnuts, cherries,peach
es, j?!umbs, £e<Sannes, apricots, grapes, figs, rjfborries,
goofeberries,lirawberries,and currants; the whole admi
rably varied by turfed slopes which have been formed by
i*reat labour and cxpeac«. Bordering up®n these im
provements, are several lots, m a highitate of cultivation,
and well let with reft clover and orchard graf3, from
T. hicii t hreo heavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large and flourifhing orchards ; one
of ivell chosen pcach trees, the orher of apple and pear
trees, fele&edfrom the belt nurseries in the state. Pro
perly detached from the mansion house are extensive
roomy office*, of every denomination, viz, a Kitchen and
Larder, houfe-keepe-r's room and Laundry., with a ccllar
underneath for a variety of purposes, a ftora-fcoufe and
' smoke house all of brick, a dairy and spring house of l'tone.
Stables for thirty hories, an .coaeh houses for four car
riages. /Alfoalarge and well planned farm yard, with
barn and granary, a cow house, wi#h feparatc stalls for
thirty-fix grow'n cattle; apartments for fattening veals,
muttons and lambs; exteniive jQaeds fat sheep, and other
arrangements for stock of uvery description, with a large
and convenient receptable for provender, from which they
can be furnifhed without bbing exposed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overfeer'h house, blackimith's shop,
and quarters fufiicient to accommodate in the best man
ner more than fifty labourers..
The'arable lands are f« advautageoufly divided as to af
ford an opportunity of making a large quantity of India®
•corn annually, without bringing the iield into fibular cul
ture oltner than once in four years ; consequently the
lands may be improved by keeping up the inclofures during
the intermediate years, or may be beneficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option ol the proprietor.
On the prcmifes there is also a merchant mill with one
pair of best French burr stones, and one pair of Cologne ;
furnifhed with modern machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired term ol four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
gram for the use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly 1001. more. The mill and milier'shoufe are built of
free stone, within a very small distance of navigation,neap
to which are two or more valuable iifhcries, and a well
accustomed ferry over the Rappahqjnnock to the town of
Frederickfburg. The lend contains inexhaustible quarries
of free stone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water and polTeffes a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be eonfiderably increased. The road* are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel and sociable. In fa&, exclufivc of
an improveabte and 'well conditioned farm, the value and
emolument inseparably conne&ed w|tn a mill, ferries,
fUheries and quarries eligibly iltuated ; the profits arising
from an ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a gar
deni of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetables
of all lorts as to be fully equal to the demand in market,
might be detailed many other advantages, apper
taining to the fertility of tJj*fe lands, which the subscriber
conceives it unnecessary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be found to he a complete,
"pleafaßt and healthy refidenqe, possessing, beauties and
convenience®Sufficient to attract the attention of any per
son defirousof becoming a purchaser.
The motive which induces the fubferiber to offer for
sale an eftatefo Angularly beautiful and advantageous, is
a dcfire to become au inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more ease attend to his interests in the neigh
bcurheod of that city. ,
The purchaser may be accommodated with a few slaves
in families, either for plantation or donaeftic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balance
made easy, the debtbejng properly secured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
Chatham, (Virg.) Dec. 19, 1796. nth—2aw:m.
Elegant Bruflels & Turkey Carpetic
For sale by George Dobfon, N©. 25, South Third-
December 15. _ dtf
Paterion Lottery.
FOR raifmtj (lx thoufind fix hundred and Cxty-feTen
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedudion of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a price, viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars i» 'dollars 5000
/ I ' 1000 JOOO
I 500 "•, 500
5 200 ioco
aa 100 aooc
- 99 5° A9SO
20© 2£ , 5000 '
1000 10 20,00 c i
5 Lalt drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
2332 Prizes. 44,4.50
'4018 Blinks.
63 jo Ticlysts at Seven Dollars each, 44i4^0
By order of the Directors of the Soeiety for establish
ing Weful Manufactures, the fupervnt>endants of the Pat.
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
luregoicg Sshemc to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who nave purchased
in the forfner Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery. '
The lottery has aflually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
nay be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
lou'lli Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may bs procured.
Dated this 17 th day of June, 1796;
J. N- CUMMING, ~)
JACOB K. HAHDENBERG, f Managers.
JO NATHAN ■ RHE A, )
$TATE OF THE WHEEL.
i l Prize of 5000 - - - 5000
I JOOO ... 1000
I s©o ...
5 200 J . 1000
20 ico • - • - aooo
90 50 4500
165 is . * 412J
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 joco
Being all the valuable prizes, befuics a full propar
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is confiderabfy more than one third
drawn, the value of the ptidrawn. tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth the notice of those
who hold tickets ii> the old scheme, that they can ex
change >heir tickcts for thole .ill the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance eonfidcring the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will»be oftener, and the Lottery soon finifhjsd.
November w. njws
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market street, fju/sHfUM,
HWE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a large allcrtment WA RRANT E D
IVA ICH ES, eenfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with feco;,cls, of f iperior
workmanlhip ant' elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Wit lies ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames; eight day and thirty ho«r, brass
works,
Decemfet 12, 1796. d2m
Bank of North-America,
< January 2, ,1797.
At a meeting of tfte Direfiors this diy, a Dividfnd of
Six per Cent, was declared for the la ft half year, which
will be paid to the Stockholders or their representatives,
at any time after the 10th
By order of the Board.
dtl6th JOHN NIXON, President
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very hrge and heavy debts are j'iftly
doe and'owing from messrs. Bla '.r M'Clenachan, and
Patrick Mtore, of the city of PhihdfTphl2, merchants,
trading under the irm of Blair M'Clenachan and P.
Moore, and from Blqir M'Clenachan in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint aj weli as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it ta clearly and fatisfa&orily afcertaifted, that mr.
Blair M'Clenachan, of the said firm,, ha? conveyed
away to mr. "John 11. Kujlon, His son-in-law, to his
daughter, miss M'Clenachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable real estates,
as well as coufidcrable perfoual property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in theeounty of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
elfewhwe, with a view, as it is appreTiended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recevery of their jufl debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all perfo.is whomso
ever, agaioft the purchase from the said grantees, or
either of them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal preperty, as the most vigorous rneafures will
without delay be taken to rendsr the fame liable to
the jufl demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fit*./imons,
PhUip Nicklin, I
Isaac Vharton, Committee.
William M'Mnrtrie, 1
Samuel ff r . Fijber, J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. »oth.s
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the puWic prints,
warning all perfonr. against purchafnig from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachifi), any portion of the
large, real and personal estates he conveyed away to
hie Con-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upon tlie fubje£t by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well cf Glair
M'Clenachan ami P. Moore as of Blair M'Clens
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confidad in the fubk-ribere by
those creditor» : a step which it would Jiave been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very ftatenacnt of the fatt therefore must dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindi&ive." It originated in a desire to feeure
the property of the debtor as a sand for the pay
ment of his jaft debts. It was fanflioned by the
advice of council as a measure nccejfary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advertisement ha« been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjuftiliable conduit, not to the sub
scribers .vho have merely puUithed the truth, in
terras as mild as the fact would admit, and who
mean to invefligate in a court of justice the
validity of those purchaseS of which Mr.. M'Cle
nachan so confidently speaks.
The fubfenbers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
eaution against purchasing of those grautees or
either of them, and to extend the terms <jf it to a
pnrchafe from any other persons (if such there be)
tp wbem Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKJ-TN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philad.' Dee. 21, 1796.
| fl3" Those printers whb hare been requefled to
publifli the firft Caution, are desired to pubWh this
also. ■
Wafhmgton Caiiai Lottery,
• N 0 . I. ,
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifct)
the underwritten,-"to raise twenty-fix thousand.
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the Oity of Washington, fro>i th l'o
tomacto theEaftern Branch Ilaruour.
**■ The following is the SCHEME of No.-I.
Vie .1 Prize of ao.ooo aoliars, lopoo
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn y
Tickets, each j V ",000
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ZO ditto 100 »,000
SS ditto jo 1,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,25©
5850 Prizss, 175,00 c
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
¥j° The Commiflioners havs taken the Securities re
quired by the aferefaid a<s for the pun&ual payment o'
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, withcu*
delay, as soon as th<* Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes aB are not demanded in fix months after th»
drawing 16 finished, (hall be considered as relinqnifhed foi
the benefit l ef the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed ) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEOKGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Feb. 11. 5
A Manufactory ,FOIv SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE/ Maoufc»£lory, fitnate
vn t convenient part ot the city ; the works almost ne-v,
on an pntirt ]y original conftruftion, ail»d buili of the befl
materials, and m->y be set to work immedbtely. Persons
' who w'AliHo purchase, are to apply at No 273,
Saurh Second Street. / September 13. tt ft(
1 " DANCING SCHOOL.
! WILLIAM M'DQUGALL wili open his fphbal on Mon
-5 day the 31ft in ft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from ic to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to y o'clock on the evenings o
j the f ime days.
In addition to a namber of new cotillioKs,4ie means bo
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
NoU. The firft pra&ifing ball to be on Tuesday a*
vening, the firft of Noveinber, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the fcafon.
I For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N0.134, Market
• (hvet.
0&. 17. / tthf
1 wenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fubferiber on the 23d OAober,/
4 a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES; 21 ytars
» old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mked green
. coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttona ;
? a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
t whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
- his name and dress. He has been aceuftomed to driving
s a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for.fecurir.g him so that the fubfcriW may get him
\ again, and if brought hojue all r«*ifonable charges paid by
9 Robins Chamberlaitie.
r Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 §imiawtf
Le Breton,
- SURGEON-DENTIST,
1 Tupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family ps France, member of the
College and Academy of Stfrgeoiw at Paris,
- Keeps a complete aflbrtment of every thing neee'flary
s* 1 to be used for^he
; Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Tvorv Teeth ;
Dentrifice is powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
fwcetening the mouth and pref-rving the teeth—he
also furnilhes Brofhes an<J foft Sponges.
*„* H« liyes in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-street.
November »6. ys
Horses taken in,'
For the Winter Season,
And f<d.on clover hay at the Subscribers place, it
a i!cs on the Bristol Road, where goodttabling is pro
vided, and great will b« taken of them
William Bell.
Nov. 23. mwf2w*nt'htf.
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
* '.erchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
f AVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
The bubferiprion Room will be furnithed with all the
daily papers publiflied in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citiss of Europe—They will be rugularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away account
Tea* Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Fruich l.iquors; together with the usual refrefnments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors fr#mLondon and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and aarlieft
projuiliwns of the Season. j
Large aud small Patt.ics,%r single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with BreakCafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
; hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kupt for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniftipd, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliliefs, and every other
requisite.
gf Samuel Richardet wJll be happy to receive, and
execute the conimands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratifude'for their, favours, hp pledges
hiinfelf that nothing 011 his part fhaK be wanting to pre-
I serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
j ingly fionored. %
I ! Philadelphia, April T9 mwf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propcfals will be re
ceived at the ofice of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the eipiration of,the firft day ol March next ta.
tuiilg, for the supply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 179?, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
3 days inclusive, at the plates and within the diflrifls htre
-4 after mentioned, vi*. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Pjcfque llle; at Sanduflcy Lake, and on Sandufky
- River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Jort-Jsffcrfon; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
1 Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
2 Steuben ;at FortMafiac ; at any pU.c frftm Fort Maluc
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Milfifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies (hall be required lor any pofis or places not
mentioned in this notice, ill such supplies fliali be fur
uilhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before'recked,'or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to coniilt of the fol
lowing Articles. viz.
One pouiui two ounces of bread «r flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
porlt or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy rr whilkpy.
One qmart and half a pint ol fclt."^
Two quarts ef Vi ocgar, ( huu( ,. ed ratiens
Two pounds of Soap, (
One pound of Candles, y
The rations are to be furniihed in ioch quantities, astliat
there fliall at all times during the said term, be iufliaent
' for the cenfumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
' advance, and at each of site other posts, for the term of
; at teaft months in advance, in good an d wholesome
provisions, If the fame lhall be required. 11 is to be un
» der'iood, that the Contrai2;or is to be at the exj ence and
1 j-ifk; of iffuirg the fupplifs to the troops attach poll, and
that all loffcs sustained by the depradations of an enemy, or
by means of the traops oTthe United States, (hall be paid
for at the price.of the articles taptured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a comriiillioncd olficer, as
certaining the eircumftances of the loss, and the amount
of th" at tides for which oosnpenfation lhall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,' ,
Sesreiary of the Treasury.
THOMAS DOB SON,
At the Stone Hoofe, Ni. 41, South StcanJJlreel,
Philadelphia,
HAS FOR SALE,
A large and very general assortment of
STAT lON ART. ,
Drawing and Writing Best and feoond Swan Quilla
Papers. Black and red Ink Powder
Antiquarian Ditto Liquid Ink
Double Elephant Penknives
Atlas, De(k knives
Elephant Superfine red 2nd black Seal*
Imperial ing wax,
Super Royal Befl vermilion and coloured
Royal wafers
Medium, Large and small office wa-*
I Demy fers
Thick Post folio Red tape broad, middling 8C
Thin ditto narrow
Extra thin ditto LLlaftic gum, in battle* gtf
Thick Post Letter pieces
Ditto plain Pounce
Ditto gilt ivory pounce bore*
Ditto lined Cocoa and bone ditto
Thin Post Ivory paper-knive«
Ditto gilt Black sand
Mourning boxes, japanned
Ditto plain, or lined Lignumvitas and common
Baftk Post Gutter's scales v
Small Post «ap size Brass dividers
Befl English and American Leaden preffers
Foolscap, various qualities Black lead pencils
Superfine Pot hiding ditto
S'ecor.d ditto card rarks
Blossom and g*ey Blotting Writing parchment
Paper Ditto vellum
Wrapping paper Morocco writing defies
Letter files and laccs Spanish tambour ditto
Paper cases, various sizes An plegant variety of ebony
Bonnet pafttboards ink-tfan*lifhes
— Large, middling and final!
Merchants' Account Books, pewter ink (landifhes
vir, Large, middling an 1 small
Ledgers, single or double, counting-house ink-pots
ruled for 1. s. d- or dolls. An elegant assortment of
& cents, ol Imperial or Su- chryftal and wedgewood
per Royal, with or with- phifyfophical ink pots
out cross lines Ink-glalle*, various sizes
Journals, Day Books, In- Leather & paper ink-pieces
voice Books, Account cur- for the pocket
rent Books, Sales' Books, Small gilt visiting car«is
Letter Books, and P ecord Blank meflags-cards, large
Books, of Imperial, Su- and small, gilt and pain
per-royal, Royal, Medi- Boxes of marking-types /or
um, Demy or Foolscap, linen.
cross ruled or plain. —-
Receipt Books Bills of lading, l;jrge & small
Bank Books Bills of exchange
Memorandum feeoks Elegant copperplate ditto
Bill of leading Books Cuitom-houie entrin
Bill Books, payable and re- Manifests
ceivable Seamen's article#
Bank-Check Books, of vari- Blank bonds
crus sizes and for different Judgment bonds
banks Judgment bills
Cyphering and Copy Books Mortgages
Common place Books Arbitration bonds
— Apprentice's indenture
Baft Dutch Quills, No. 1, a, Powers of attorney
3, 4 and 5 Bank checks, See. See,
December 17. 96
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No.
South SecondJlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raifmg Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an A& of
the Legislature of Pennrylvania, p«fled daring the la t
fefnon, for Building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars,
> Prize of 20,000 Dollars - s>o,ooo
1 do. of i©,ooo do. • - 10.000
3 do. of 5,000 do. ... 15.000
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - 8,000
20 do, of j,OOO do. - 20j0Gc>
39 do. of 500 do. - . 39.500
So do. of 200 do. * - 16,006
200 do. of 100 do. - 20,000
300 do. «f 50 do. - 15,00©
1 dd. of 560 do. to be paid the poflef- >
for ©f the firfl drawn no. { s°°
5 do. of 3,060 do. to be paid pofleffors /
of jthe five lali drawn nos $ ! s' cc<3l
9,400 do. o 15 do. : . 141,000
— » IJ
10,©54 Prizes 300,00 c*
10*046 Blanks —
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars
AM Prizes fh2l! be paid fifteen days after the drawing
firrifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
picket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will oommence as soon as the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps so >ncr. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kirjhner, William IVitman,
Joseph Hiejlcr, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
Jamer May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Crarjf,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May (he gth, i?g6
Tickets ia the Canal Lottery, No. 1, to be had at the
above office, where the earlieit iniormation of the draw
ing of the Walhington No. 2, and Patterfon l.ottery'«,
are received, and chec)t books for examination and regif
teringare kept.
oaoher 7. nwtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
_ No. 64, South Second street.
v — I
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—3
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid ia
frbe late lottery. / |
Check Books kept for examination and rejjiftering, for
the City of Wafbington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information whore
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all theorizes in the late New
port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School' Lottery, for
examination.
the fubftriber solicits the application of tine public
and his friends, who with to purchase or fell Bank Sfock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Land»,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
*.» Also 1 ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollars each, whiah will be drawn early ia
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, jiuguff tB. 1796. mth
■ ' ——
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO]
—No, 119 —
CHESNUT-STREET.
[Price Bight Dollars ptr Annan*]