©ajef te « m Unites States,... Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1599.
SALES *BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
C Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. j<s,
Ma«Jaj\ .J outh Front-street,
• } Afternoon—Footman Si Co. No. 6?
(_ South Front-street.
Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
%urfiiaj J AuiSion, No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
) Afternoori—William Shannon, No.
v. 183 High-street.
Wetbtefdav $ Afternoon—Peter 3enfpn, No. 74
7 I south Third-ftrcet.
Thurjday \ F» r enoon—Edward Fox.
(_ Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday I Forenoon—Willia™ Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For SAVANNAH; ~
THE FAST SAILING 3AIP
s wift Packet,
Patrick Gnbbin, Majer. j
NOW lying at Smith's wharf, I
above Race-street. Is haudfome- i
Iy aDcommodated for lingers, and will fail on !
t T"k 2 <\ l ft -ight or paffagc, apply
to the Master on board, No. 95, South Front
' or o{ thc subscribers, at Frankford.
ft- & J. Frazier.
_ dtlSth
For LONDON,
THE SWEDISH SNOW
A dolphz,
Capt. Chs. IVm. R.imfl ;
Expefled to fail in all the prufent month—A '
few tons of Goods are wanted on Freight, and
will be t.ikcti on moderate terms, if speedy appli- t
estlon ii made. Apply ta J
Peter Bright. *
Back of hisnew buildings, Dock-ftrcet.
oa tg- f,
\ For Freight or Charter,
The Danijh Brig
dbel Catberina,
Burthen about 160 tons.
i HIS vessel is now ready to receive on board a
cargo, and may be difpatthed to any port in Eu- /,
tope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
Apply to the Captain on board, or to the fubferi
bcr - james Yard.
:. diet
For Freight or Charter,
Tm GOOD BRIO F
s u K £ Y ,
JGtsSi Isaac Vredenburg, Master ;
NQvvlying Clifford's wharf, and in complcat
to receive argo. For terms please to ap
ly the Captain en board, or
yohn Slyrin,
No. 81, Arch-ftrect.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
- > of doublerefinedSaltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bufheU of Timothy Seed th
i.?ocafe«of Claret, firfl quality fti
And a qaantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. it). dtf
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now llnding from on hoard th« '"j
Brig A.-live, William vVilliamf, Master, J
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof, ia
And for Sale bv
jehu Hollingf<wortb & Go.
Wilmington, Sept. 2r. dtf
N. B. The above Brig, -r
aru ' 'he brig GAYOSO, are
* <>r or Charter, and A«
now ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
*6 —and two are so connefied by folding doors »
as to make but one. Also. five bed rooms, be
sides 5 in the garret, well finished for fervanta.
There are (tables and a coach house, with evry
•eonvpiiience for a fattiily. Enquire at No. 29, '
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch I? 2
Street; thc
Aug. tj. aawjw.
Chocolate and Mustard -i
Manufactured as usUal,
Ginger and Pepper ground '
Shelled or Pearl Barley la '
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder tinil
London Pcrter ®
Taunton and Burton Ale DOL
Red Port apd other Wines, eithe bottled, , F
•er by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon—suitable Tj
-fortxportation or home confumptioii^—
For-Saleby > t —1
, John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front Ant
THE SUBSCRIBERS, »
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREBNLEAF)
HEHEBY give notice, that they havedifpofed . u
<cf the property a digued to them for the securing
;the payment of the note*, acceptances, and en
.-doifements given by Edward Fox, for the use 1
of the feid James Greenleaf; and the holders of a "d
•such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the subscribers will fettle 3'
with them for the amount of their refpeflive
«laints, fypth principal and interest, at 4-
any time before the 20th day of October next; "f '•
after which fiav, the holders jiot applying, will 5-
1»e extluded, agreeably to the terms of assign- f
ment. °*f c
Applications to be made at south-east corner ' n w
of Dock and Second fireets (the Dock-street °f
Me), between the hours ps eleven and one o'
•lofk every day, Sunday* excepted. A_
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis, In an
John Miller, Jun. by
John Ajhley, cfl
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. d Billk
~ TENERIFFE WINE. St3 c
T.ANDING * at Walnut-street wharf, TENE- COl
IJIPFE WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes and Duel,
JvaJf pipe«, for sale by JAUES YARD. ell,on
M)(2. I*. eeSt Sep
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY EVEN!Nb/VcTOS« , 70 ,.
The Philadelphia, Atfion, and 7 uckcrton
MAIL STAGE.
J" 1 HE proprietors .beg lean,, to inform the public, th.it
I they have rftablifhed a Stage between Philadelphia,
. ss, Atfion, Bat/Jo, Hampton, Specd>wiil % and Martha Far
nacs,Wading River fitting mill, and the tmvn of Tuck-
O. 65 "*« to go once a tveei, and areprovU
ded tilth good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care-
Git* f"! driver, for the conveyance of the mail]paffengers, and
treet. The Stage will start every Thurflay, at 10
No. ° CM *' ' f r ' m Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
lodge that night at Joel Bodine's, at Longacoming ; and
0 11 p '' da y< at 6 ' P. M. arrive at CM E
• 1* vant'i, i/deeper, in Tuckerton, difa.it from ibe city 54
m if"< (from the Atlantic 6, anJfrom the Eafl Groufwg
Plains 7 miles J inhere arc good accommodations for tra
vellers, and •where are commodious andfafe parage boats
pravided to convey pajfengers to Capt. William War
rington s house, on Tucker's Tflakd, adjoinining the At-
l ""tic, wbrr. are good accommodations, and a convenient
place to bathe ,* the sportsman who wifbes to regale himfelf
r ' W " ,J filling andfjhing, may at this place Le highly gra
tified, there being at aim of every feafin of the year fowl I
, j audfijb in abundance ' The Stage on its return, Jlarts
! f rom aforefaid C, Evans's in 'Tuckerton, every Tues
day, at 6 o'clock, A. M. hre.ikfaji, at Jihn Bodine's, at
hart, Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
>me- 1 and at 1 o clock, P. J\4, on Weinrfday, arrive at the
«n aforefaid Coopers Ferry. It is presumed that no route of I
PPT an equal difunce will be hfs expensive, or furnijh the tra-
ODt- vctlcr ivitb a greater variety of amu/ement, as he V/ill
I not only have a pleasant fail to the atlantic from Tucker
ton, but have the euriojity of feeing on the road thither a
h number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, tvho
are owners, '>rfactor;, of any of the aforefaid iron works,'
are filiated to encourage and support this Jlage (by -wh cb
they can befo well accommodated) the continuance of which
A, -will much depend on their aid. The rates of passengers
. . and baggage are as follows : For a pajfenger from the \
-A "f"'^" l Daniel Cooper s Ferry to Tuckerton, including c
and '4 of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way passengers fc
p]i- per mile, Four Cents—i 50 lb, of baggage equal to a pas- f
fencer. Poflage of letters, neissfpapcrs, life, -will be %
agreeably to law. .
N.B. The mail crosses from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARDLE & C». .
L Tuckerton, Sept. 28. Oo.}.—2mitf °
Window Glass, -
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
thc City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES, ,
j a From Bby 6 to >9 by 14,
u- « By single Box Q u » nti 'y. may be bad at the at
(tore of the Subfcrib'orj, corner of Arch and Front- ,0
ftifcet. hi
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher. J
Bhiladelphia, Juneq. 1737. Siwmwftf
Will be Landed,
From oa board the (hip Aflive, Capt.Blair,from
Hamburgh,
ao bales white Rulfia clean Hemp
j 2 calks Clorer Seed
at 'or Sale by
P- Thomas Herman Leuffer, Ct
NorthHfth ftrect, No. tei
T une *6- ye
Young Hyson Tea.
C 40 chells of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do.of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrop Sims, and for sale by
the lubfcriber, corner of Second and Pine ,
street. tf "
C. Haight. S "
- T»ne 11.
, t Cedar Shingles. ,TJ
« | 'HE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar e| J
J. Shingles cf-« superior quality, for sale at 13 Bec
: dollars p«r thousand. .
William Halloissell,
No. 193 North Third-Jlrect.
J»'y eoi2t |~
e Imported in the JhiprPigou, net
1 And fqt sale by John Morton,'Ko. 116, South W
' Front-street, at ti
Hyson or t
Hyson Skin CtEAS ° f J
E Young Hyson r .
Imperial j 1
s April ao. cot/ ' J
' NOTICE.
5 ALL person* indebted to the estate of Jomn
Striker, late of Tinnecum Xownlhip, , .
• Buck's County, are reqneftcd to pay off their • f
refpefliye debts ; and those having any de'i tl £
1 inands against said estate, are desired to bring in j.
' their accounts, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, & ) Execu- '°™
MALLET PIiEI'ALT, 5 tors. r or
Sept. 28. <Jiaw-4*
' Mrs. GRATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in'gencral,
that her houfc, No. 191, Market-ftrcet, will con
tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging in a separate room, tin
dollars, in a double rooVn, eight dollars.
For the convenience of those gentleman who
have not thais families in ♦own, Mr«. Grattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at halt a dollar
a day. Augufl 2Q. — 6t
Just publilhed,
And to be fold at the Bcokflqres of H. Sff P.
Kice, No. sp, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
No. 41, and W. Young,
corner of. Cnefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IK WHICH IS CONTAIN FD, p
1. Decimal frailions, in a plain, concise, ° r a
and easy manner.
2. Theextraftion of the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, redlangulsr antj ob- xh
H< l ue - vey
4. An exad method to cast up the eontent9 dailv
of lands. ' ' the r
5. 1- le Id lurveying. Gera
The whole bein? performed without the use in th<
of scale and compafies, on a table of logarithms, of Ja
In which is given some account of the variation of wl
of the needle, and the causes of its attrition, desire
By SAMUEL MOORE.
Al.Wlftj. 23VV2W TQ
Lately Publiihed, tilled
In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in Jjoards) fold ed t0
by V ILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and ness o
ChSfnut streets, in less
A of Papers on the fubje&of' c f nce
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United fiff"
States for a few years past« crs e lc a „
Compiled by MO AH IVHQSTER, Jan.
Containing letters from Doflors Seaman, Sajith,
Duel, raylor, Ramsay, Monfcn, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c. See. ' ' fj
Se P'- l S' Jt Qernii
By John Fenno, N- 115 Chefnvt Street.
r J on The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
'°tage starts ffo'ift the GEORGE Tavern
:f ' tiat r» , fVf 15 Corn[,r ol Sccond a " d Arth Streets, in'
'elplnr, rviry Tucf.'ay, TUrfiaj, and Satur
a Far- fj, at 3 (.'clock, ia the irorning j arrived at Do-'
Tuck- ver the firft day, at Sndwhill the second day, at
provi- Northampton Court House the third day, and on
\ cart- "is morning of the fourth day rile paffengcrs find
■i,a"i a 'ate and comfortable packet to convey them to
it 10. w °riollc.
v, and ' A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry
; and " er y 1 uefday, Thursday and Saturday, and the'
W £ »V SC frora this ,err y {nr Philadelphia, every
*y 54 Wednesday and Friday; puts up at Snow
■oufrng the nrft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
r tra- » v « in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
boats Q^y-
War- jbe distance on this route, between Philadelphia
. 4 t . and Norfolk,» $0 miles less than on any fuge route
cniait between those places.
m f el f r °° much cannot be said in favor of the road
, gra . Which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
font willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
dart, P&Uenger, who, after having performed this route,
Tu 'f- JJ." la s s thu ever travelled in a stage for the fame
■>, at diltance, so good a road in America.
,in g , Awguft ir. dim. eotf.
Red p po t wi ne .
t>" J ust arrlvc d, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, frpm
•tvill Oporto,
tier- Red Port Wine in pipes, hhds. and quarter cases
, r a SCcvvt. Cork, for sale by
">*s Philips, Cramond, Sc Co.
«*»• J„| y 21.
fris, *- • ■■— *
beb CUSTOM-HOUSE,
• Philadelphia, Sept. aid, 1797.
gtn . ,-TE Merchants who at this time prefer hav- 1
' ' '"S 'beir velTeli and Merchano'ize entered and
*"g cleared at Chester or Marcus Hook,—are here
%'rt by notified, That in compliance with their de- J
iL n 2 nd Upo " 1 c ° nvil^:oil that the measure '
' ?[ . mutually beneficial to them and to the 1
L "I'ed States. The colleiflor of the CMftoms has
made arrangements to eflablilh for some time
r bianthes of the cuftom-houfc at th6fe places, c
where every accommodation in his power will J
he given to the merchants. d 1 w *
jn " TO BE SOLD; t j
And immediate pcjfejjibn given,
A Convenient well finiihed Brick Tenement,
J. 1 with a cook house and other out houses, fitu
the *ted in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming- -
Bt _ ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground /
has forty feet from on Weft-ttreet, aud extends
through the square to Pafturc-ftreet, on which is p
erected a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. jo.
m City CommJJioners Office,
August 29, 1797. &
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Selcci and .
Common Councils, passed the nd day of May lad. ,n
Projtofals in writing will be received hy the City ar
Comnnffioners for one month from the ift of Sep- P {
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one he
Jf e ar to commence the fitft day of January next, the ce
following public property of the city— in
The wharf and landing on Vine Street, fc
Also on Saflafra>, 4 lai
Mulberry,
tj And High Street!,
, e Chcfnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, With
the Scale and Filh Houfts, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets. .
The cellar under the City-Htll.
__ The Tivern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with) the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much Ol
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings erefl-
Lr ed for the use of the CoHeiftor of the Tolls, or be
3 iieceflary for the toll-gates.)
An K- 3 3tawim. gf
L" O S T, ci;
ON the Paflyuiik Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with'a brsfa I' ri
barrel and lilver fight; on the plate of tht butt are Ol
the letters "Jamaica, 99"— and on-the barrel '
near the lock *• Lopdon" and the Tower llatnp. Ca'
li Whoever will return the atf piece to Job* Bc>-n.irJ, Ol!
j! the fieri of the Blue Ball on the PafTyuiyiv 'Ail
or the office of tin's Gazette, shall rcalVe a reward Pr
of Four French Crowns, vVi
a, P'- "• *Jt_ Va
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. I*
Notice is hereby Given, snl
THAT agreeably to an aift of Congress of the J.' ai
United States of America, passed at Phila- 1:^
delphia, the »Bth day of M,ay, 1796 ; laying du- J' 1 '
ti«s on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which fiiall be kept by or for any person, for his er
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the ® ccl
conveyance of paflengers, tl)f several dutic« and ?5 al
rates following, to wit : Cre.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Cfariot, 11 dols.
»pon every Post Chariot, 12 do!«. Si
upon every Poft'Chaife, 11 dols. , —«
apoij every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dots. In C
upon every Coacher, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glafws or curtains, <J~
9 dols. holes
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra- nLor ,
med polls and topi with fleel springs,6 mou ' l
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood- 'i '''
eiyir iron springs or jacks, 3 dolt. / m
upon Curricles with tops, 3 d.-'s. herd
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols. 1
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols. ""
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols, f r:m
upon two wheel carriages, with fleel or rc l u '
iron springs, 3 dol«. work
For and upon all,other two wheel carriages, 1 doU. Pate<
upon every four wheeled carriage, having win,
framed posts and tops, and reding up- Be
on wooden fpari, 2 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diflriift of Penrifylvunia, will attend BY M
daily, until the 30th day o<" September »»xt, for
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at '
Gei mantown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq. Elegt
in the County of Montgomery; add at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in theCouhty of Bucks ;
of which allperfttnspofcfEed of lllch Can iages are
deDred to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif-
tilled fpirituourliquor=, that licences will be grant- 'J 131 '
ed to them ; otic licence for carrying on the bufi- ,
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less 'quantity, or '
in less quantities than thirty gallons—aod one li- " n
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spl-. " OUs
rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authouifed to grant such licences. L L.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeiilor of the Revenue of the firll fui- Dadi
vey »f the Diftriift of pecjifylvaaia. N.
Office of Infpecftion at "> , I £er, a
Germantow, nth Sept. 1797. j / " j Fel
fc.. PhUatL'lpljia, 08* 13.
avern, rMK subscribers inform their friends and callo
ws, in m?w ' OWI , t ttlld eoortry.thai their florts are now
Satur- °P en 1,1 'he City, and othefs are daily opening, ana
at Ho- ' at lrom tlie appearance of the prevailing
ay, at ' U ' jr ;' er have to hope, their friends may
mdon ' tcrl H ™' <0 the city with perfed sis ty. By
s find evera ' late arrivals, cumbers have received frcih
lem to lu PP h " »( GOODS.
Robert Smith il? Co. P. IV. Gdllaudet & Co.
fe'ry, J° b " Of Co. Sitgreaves &f French,
d the » S*Mh, George Dobfon,
every liiltberger qnd Smitb, Thomas Ryerfon,
Snow MX B,)Jla,id and Co. T. K. Hardening.
id ar- Jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith dnd Co
third Owen iSf fona. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele (jf Zautzinger, William Barker [3* Co.
P M™Z>™t*.<npr, Thomas Armat 13 Son.
route John Fries, J. m!er> /v „. and
(J 14-
ietors Boston Glass Manufa&ory.
1 T" E dtlzens of the Uni-ed States are hereby
oute, X informed, that the manufacture of Window
fame Glass is now commenced at the Glass House in Bof
tor.
tf. It is needltfs to fay any thing of the excellent
«uauty of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every refpeCl
Erpm greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any Gze commonly used ; and
afcs may be constantly had by applying to Cm ari.es F
Kupfer, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be aidreffed to
$ Mr - Samosl Gore, Cburt-ftreet, Boston.
Boston, Sept 3 0, 179 7 O 4 _ 2 , w <w
Mrjn. 'finally anl Mnfik, Chorion ; MefTrii
T. H °%, , W %'"•'» Ihtya*, -V. C. AXettrs. Vt-itkH
13 T° r - N " rf ' a ; Mr - EU " Pr '"'< Mxixd'to 1
and unit end Breton, Baltimore ; Mr. Hophins,
= re - c'T I? and M '€"' N "' % " & H'tt
lie- •>, ' Stymour, Savannah ; arc requcfcd to infer!
"lire ' 6 Tie accounts to be for
the ' ljariuSu Editor.
has Mr, l a ILSON~ T
me WITH an intention to render service, and unde
:es, ceive those Performers, who during his absence Mr.
fill Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it 1
' would be wrong in him not to inform those that
" e e °F i 2*<'> it is without his approbation, and
that he will not be in any way answerable for Mr.
Jaymond's engagements.
tl: M PHILIPPE LAILSON.
lg . _ Alexandria, Soft. IS, 1797. 6t . t
At a Meeting of the Board of; a
.is' « r . Property, June 6, 1797, "
" Prefcnt John Hall, Sea'ry. ) b
Frandis Johnfton, R. G. Voflandoffice '
Dan. Brodhead, S. G._J ,
Nicholas Bettingtr,
Versus i j
Samuel Cunningham, j
nd . '" this cafe the proof of service of notice be
st. ,n g infufficient, It isordered that notice be giv- fa
ty °^ e Philadelphia and York newfpa- fe:
p. per« weekly, for at least eight weeks to the la
ne heiri or aflignees of Samuel Cunningham «ie- y
be ceased, to amend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, to fhewcaul'e why a patent _
fccruld net ifTue to Nicholas Bettinger for the A
la»d ill question.
t, (A true Copy.) ? e
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office. , r
ir *iawßw. g t ;
From Marseilles.
11, THE CARGO
h Of the Swtdifh Adolphus.from
t- Marseilles, confifllng of the following articles,
»« it discharging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by tlic fuhfcribcr's.
- BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogfbeads ma
U Ditto, in cales fra
h I rontigcuc VVine, in cases of 30 bottles
e Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in ba&ets of C
?1 and l» l»otties or or r
1, Capers ' e ' f
I, Olives [^ c
Aimonds ,hc
i Dry Venligreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 38, 3c and 31 ipches ' if,,!)
Taffeties fai£
Long and fliort white Kid Gloves for Women flial
Silk Stockings 011
handkerchiefs, in ihiitation of Madrafi mp
Artificial Flowers and Garlands into
Ostrich Feathers any
Ribbons cfca
Perfumery o. c
Scented ! 'air-Powder and Pomatim tht
! Manna in for?* tain
Cream Tartar. oftc
BENJAMIN MORGAN & £
UOBIiRT ANDREWS. fcl
September ij, eo tf t ' le
At the Federal Blast Furnlcef, COD(
In Carvei -for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling w n
Mills. 2" e :
SEYMOUR'S Patent Roller
THEIR superiority conftjls in being free from to '[,
holes and honey-combed place/, <wbicb are com- dan
monh found in re'lers cast in /and, or clay c ian
moulds. Theft patent rollers are cafl in iron fliip
moulds, prcuioujly heated, and will be found to and
bemoredenje, folidand durable than any rollers and
heretofore used. Another important advantage tu al
they have c-ver others, is, that the necks require at til
no turning, but are immedaihlyft for use, and healt
from their accuracy, run luith less frißivn, and vefle
require tefs water to make them perform their of P c
work. 'lhey may be had by application to the 0(1,11
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good- Cllce
win, or of .Mejfrs.Thatcher and Hay ward ancl 1
Bofle«, Aug. 31. Sept. u>. sf,/. f . ,tf
- —I 4- the ti
This Day is Published, I tilent
BY Mcfl. Dobron, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and tht e " c . *
other Booklellers, ,
Price One pollar and twenty-five cents, any n
Elegant y printed on Wove paper, and Not- d .' '
prejjerl, " '
Bv John fhompfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF forfci
The Conflitutions LA^
Of the fevufal States with ench other, and. with evtr
th»l of the United States: exhibiting in Tables, , OM
the pron:i!i»«:: features of eaeh Cpnftitution, and has rc
classing together thcijp most iinpertant provisions, <j; re( 3
under the several heads of admmiftraticm ; with um 0 j
Notes anfl Observations.
Y>y WILLIAM SMITH, IT
Of Soutb-Carolinx, fediim
L L. D. and niernber of the Cohgrcfs of the fubfer
United States. aift a
Dedicated to th® People oi ths United States. undt;r
, N. R A few Copies pri-.it'id on aii inferior pa
£er, at 3-4thsof i dollar.
F«.tr*«f v Kw f "Jul-
cuilo- v Ij£RMAN LcUFf^R,
e now fth fire<-t > corn «- of Worth alky, No. j,
r, and p HAS FOR SALE,
ailing H XCtLI-ENfraJ bouoJe.iux Vv'ine in cases »o
s may be»,o *e», fix years old
. By "_ B1 te Graves Wjne in ea&*
. frefii T.VHcnlH.rjjs
Ryffia Sail Cloths
if n, Ravens Duck
ch B '^ Linen
'*> Hefflan.
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty I ags
Common Gergian Cloth
An affortmentof black coloured Ribbon#
F:ne German Laces
S- C.o o v:^et etODSi? ' UnlaC, ' :r - nH^
i Co. Italian Soap, J n fmali boxo., fir family us«
- *»*!£■«*« *. * A.I K .V-M-T
. 7/^
reby A ™ for (ale by 7HQM-AS JJOBSON, at the
dow tone House,
flof- EVENINGS atJt-lOME :
llent n
"wn . of a V4ri «y of Mifecllaneous Ffee for
- u ,a cnxfoc" 40,1 a * lufa m ent of YOUNG PER
oDe , S ~ S,x y° l » !mes>lan dfomc!y l p r; B ted ; uid bound
op , »p « n two volume,, price Two Dollars
ami The variety and excellence of'thc-fe piece, irj
H4edS ° n!yto : " 1 » tol>e
oniverfally edeemed one of the mod valuable pub
perfons ' Can !? P u t tote-tha hand* of young
'■/Tn -r De '' C , h^ ,J ' taft " to renr the tender thought,
"■ 1 o teach the y 6flng idea how to (hoot,"
■h 1° r' th * freft ,c ft",aiDn o'er the mind,
y' 1° brea!he th ' enlivening spirit.and to fix
■ art ' 1 hc g en erous purpose in the glowing bread."
%
rHIS DIY IS PUBLISHED, "7
By THOMAS DOBS ON, at the Ston« Houft,
No. 41, south Second street,
Mr] Letters and Conversations,
sit Bttween f"Veral To**# Ladies, on improving and in
hat _ tereflmg fubjevfls,
ind rrajiiiated from the Dutch of Madame de Caer.in
Hr. With alterations and improvements,
1 Printed in/me paper, and neatly bound,
[_ Price one Miliar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romance,, painting
tales of extraordinary diftref., or of desperate or
31 ar 1 ' Vl " lm y> which •' harrow up the foul," arid
which i«; would be for the honor of young ladle* to
be Ignorant of, this little book comas forward M so.
U01: notice, where, in a variety of incident*, not ex
ceeding the hounds of real lift, the proper, becaafe
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
character ls exhibited in an intcreftine point of view,
and presents example, of real and attainable excel.
teRCc.
*" r . T t e P L nblifcer w « fomuch plrafed with the pern
r- Ul, that he wa, pcrfuaded he ffiould do a pleafino
a- service to the community by fending it in o circut
16 Au CT fta4-ww4w
To Majltrs and Pilots bringing op VcJTd:
nt __ T / rom foreign Ports to this City.
Ie \A/ Herea4 fusd; T Infringements have Utely been
V V made on the law, of this date for the pro
venting peftileotial or infeftioos djfeafes, eith«
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it ,i, tho*t
expedient at thistimet'o publifb'the following e»
80i fe?u,n, the ' aWS ° f IJd AptU ' 1?94 ' 7tU aß *
HEALTH-OFFICE,
71 _ , June 6th, ifoj
S) Ext ratio/ an aßfor/tearing the city and port
>r 7 Philadelphia/rom the introduction of utli
lenttal and contagious diseases.
if S * CT - 7- And b e it further enacSed, that everv
matter or captain of any ftip or velTel coming from
( vefl " e '' employed in the toaftu a trade
excepted) snd bouad to sny jiort or place wiihin
6 T, ,™! of Pennf W«ma,lhail cause his<h, p
° r , T t 'n be broH s ht to3nchor >or othuwife flav
"u » u ° {tbe HvCr Delaware, opp e f lt , ' to
the Health-Office on Statv-Iflsnd aforefold and
there to remain until he fliall have duly obtained a
ci rtilicate or bill of heal hfron/the Rcfident Phy
ficaO. And il, preyioudy to obtaining such certi
fieateorb.llof heahh, any master or captain (hall
Mer his veflVlto approach nearer than the
raid Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
> dial! land, cause or fuffer to be landed, or brought
011 shore, at any place or port within tlii, Com
monwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent cl being conveyed into thi« Commonwealth
any perlon or perl'on., or any goo*?, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
o certificate, he (hall neglefl or rcfufe to deliver
the fain" tn the Health-Officer, such matter or ca-n- -
tain lhall forfeit ana p-.y, for each and every such
offeree, the Turn cf five uundred dollars.
Arid tlie captain or mailer of every (hip or vef
fei (hall fetid a f*fe and commodious boat to brinir
the physician oo board, and (hall in like manner
conv -y him back to the Health-Office, after he ha.
toncludid his official examination j And while he
k making such examination, or in rase ar.y fubfe
qnent examination by the Health Officer or Con
futing Phylician, agreeably to the d.retaions of
thi- avS, the master or captain (hall expole or caulc
to beexpofed to thefearch of the Resident Ph-X
cian.or of the Health Officer and Confuting Phyfi
«ian (as the tafe may be) each and every part of the
P or veff e'. Cud present to his view eack
and every person or perfor., on board thereof, and
and ffiall also true and fatisfatfory answers mak«
tn all such queflions as the Resident Physician scc
at the time of examination (hall aflt relative to th«
health of any port or place fr.m which the (hip or
venel failed, or ha, lince touched at—the numbec
of persons on board when the (hip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken on board, and when
and where refpedlively— what persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or ffiall, at
the time oi examination, be infected with any pc(-
tilential or contagious diieale—and what i, the pre
sent state and condition of the persons on boar 4
with refpcA to their health or disease,. And it
any matter or captain (hall refufe to expose ao afore.
! iid, to the search of any of the officers aforcfaid
„ if he ffiall concealaryjick person, or in any other maiL
[er deceive the proper ope, s aforefaii in bi, anf-unr.
uch captain or mater, for every such offence, (lull
forfeit »nd pay the sum of ri»E uunbued tov
LAKS»
Sest.B. And if SE y tierfon or person, whatf».
ever (the LteCdent Physician, dec. excepted) ffiall
go on beard any vessel, before the matter thereof
has received a certificate of htalth in the manner
dire died, every person so offending, (hall p ay th*
Um Of ONE IIKKOIItD DOLLAR,
IT being absolutely necessary that the fcrwoinir
fedhon* should be punctually cotoplUd with, the
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mud ex
aift h rigorous observance of the (ame, or else b«
under tdie neceflity of putting the laws in force.
M. ALLrW, H&Jtb OJJieer if ij/t
i'trt if Philadelphia.
■J»IT 14.
I
[Voivfp XII.PkVNSYLV SIA, jf. • ■ j
In the name and by the authority of the
CpmmoiVarealth of IVniifylvanii.
Br THOMAS MIF F.1%1 M
Governor of, the said (Commonwealth;.
A PROCLAMATION.'
Whereas, the infpe&ow of the Health
Ofiles? of the port of Philadelphia, have re
ported to me, that in their judgment, it 15 •
«o longer neceflarv to impoie a general qiuir- j
antine'on vsffels arriving in this port, from ,
any of*the \Veft-India 1 il'inds from New
Orleans, or from any Bvitift, French,
Dutch, or SpanHh ports on the Maine.—
Therefore, I have issued this proclama
tion, hereby revoking proclamations
heretofore by -me issued, bearing date the e
leventh and fifteenth days Or August lail ;
and allowing and permitting all vessels vVliat
foever, arriving from any part beyond seas,
to enter the port of Philadelphia, without
being fubje&'to the performance of quaran
tine, unlffj'the rcfident fihyfician (hall on
vifitirjg arty such veflel, deem the fame to be
in a ,fiekly and dangefons state, when such
readable quarantine (liall be performed, as
tVie Infpeftors ps the port (hall direst and
cilablifh.'
Given under my and the great.
Seal of the State, at Germantown,
- this twentieth day of OAober, in the
(l"S.) 0 f oar Olle thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-seven and of
the common wealth the t wen tyfecotid
thomas Mifflin.
By the Governor,
. Trimble, Sec'rj-.
A MEETING
Of tht SELECT and COMMON COUNCILS
of the City "f Phila»fi.vhla, will lie hell On
Thiirfda? at eleven o'clock in the morning,
•it tha State-house.
By order. /
IT. TQD.
Cleik of the Selti'l Council.
EDWARD J. COALE,
Cleik of the Common Conncil
-00.
NOTICE,,
KJ". SAMUEb Richardet, "peftfully
informs the gentlemen, fubferibers the
Exchange, tliat on Thuffday n«;xt, the 26th
inft. it will fee openfor their accommodation.
EJe begs leave acquaint his friends and
the public, that the City Tavern will also
be ready for the reception of gentlemen
boarders.
An ordinary as usual at three o'clock.
Oaober 21. diw.
Samuel Sc iVJicrs tifher,
ARE NOW OfE v ING t ,
t their Wwehoufe, No. 17. Dock Street, a ffe£h
of Woolen and other gopdi. suitable to
The fcifou, received by--tht late arrival! from Eng-
Jund. . ' fc. ,
77.-V have fir Sale, y
' :(T>on,
1 encriiTe. ( f pipcf,hhds. and quarter eafks-
Sherry, ana (
port \ ir ines, J
' Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
jorh iiv)' (iiw.^taw
Walker & Kknnedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
for sale,
100 Hogflieads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
1® Pipes of old' Port Wine-
Q&. it. " w tf-
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Co(Tre
Madeira and TenerifTc Wine
For Sale by
yames TareL,
No. —.South Fourth-flreet.
o«ft. 6. _ d.^w
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private fate)
(\N Friday* the frft of December next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia. Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or late in the County of Washington, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and the waters of
Frefo and Wheelipg; Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
Thcfc ; Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and were
pirenfeed early in except 37 00 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in f° urt h
of the purchase money 10 be paid at the time.of fa'/,
for the residue a credit of one, two and three monies,
1 will be given, on intcreft and good security. /
Oaofcer 6. 3 a^ l £
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private file)
ON Friday, the firlk day of December, at fix
o'clock in (he evening, at the Merchintt' Coffee
House. in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Sf
vsn Hmd'cd and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of PrnnfyKania and the now, ot late,
in the tnwnfhips of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One fourth of the pur,chafe
money dc paid at the time of sale ; for the te
fidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, on interell and good security.
Oftofle 6 __* 3» wtS -
A Wet Nurse wanted..
A Healthy Woman, with a young bread of
milk, who can be well recommended, rtay
hear of a place by inquiring of the Printer.
Oft. 13. lvv
Wanted, to Hire,
A I arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
lease for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer.
oa. t?. . cntf
o net
THE Office* of the Department of arc far
»he pri font removed ne;ir to the Falls of the ScuyV
kill, on the Ridge Road.
September 4.
The Health-Office
IS removed to the City-Hall- and is kept open
oirht and day, where persons having bufimrfs may
apply. ' Wai. ALLEN, Health-officer.
Sept. 4. dtf
' The Medical Le£tures
In the Ufliverlity of Pennsylvania, are port
jioned until the last iMonday in November
next.
oiloher 14. -*3W4W.
THE MAYOR'S OFFICE
-ill KI?T, FOR Tllf PBESINt, W'lll
CITY WALL.
*ep« ••
P 111 LAD EL P HIA ,
TUESDAY EVENING, Octobfr 24.
- : — 1 , 111
health office, Otlobcr
The consulting phyjic'uins report that tlere
are now in the bpMtal 33 patients, 19 if
whom arc flill tick, the remainder convalescents.
'The vifit'mgphyjleiam rsport that ftiice the
16th, they have hetn tailed (o 3; patients, 6
of whom have been sent to the %tfpifal, 2 have
died, I 2 are eonvalrfcents, the remainder fict.
The admtffions to the hufpital, the deaths,
and new cases for the lafl week hai)e so greatly
'diminijhed, that the irtfpeßoft of the health office
flatter themselves, that in their next publica
tion, they mdy with propriety aduife a general
return of the citizens—in the mean time although
the board wijh to be Cautious, yet they believe
itpetfefth fafe to remove in at pref nt, to any
part of the city, to the northward of Pine flreet,
Publijhed by order of the butird,
JOHb MILLER, jun. Chairman.
tht Printer of the Philadelphia Daily'
f , Advertiser.
I When a writer at Charleston, in South
Carolina, is giving his opinion about the
yellow Fever, I think he might as well leave
■ the Philadelphiant to judge for themfelres
about its origin, nnd not cxprefs himfglf in
this manner—" We (fays he) are all at a
loss here, an they are in Philadelphia, for
the origin of this fever." Now this, with
refpeA to Philadelphia, is so palpable an
error, that I believe it would be just for
the Inhabitants of this city to answer in
this manner:—We know to our sorrow
that the disorder was imported; that it
commenced this year to make it ratages in
one of the cleanliest parts of tht city,
which perhaps would have been the part
the lafl to be fufpefted, if it had not pro
ceeded from the mod evident cause, being
brought in by one or more infedted vefiels.
AVe know this, and many more particulars
refpefh'ng its importation ; and 'we have
rcafon to know the direful effefts of the
contagious nature of the mortal sickness in
its recent progress, both in and near the
borders of this metropolis.
With refpeft to the year 1793, tht in
stances of so m«ch mortality were so sudden
and alarming, that the ideas of the people
were soon confufed by a contrariety of opi-
and perhaps the more so, bccaufe
such was the deftruAion araongfl those who
brought the disorder, that they lived not
long enough to give the needful informa
tion : seVeral of the mariners were speedy
viftims, aud the contagion spread with such
rapidity that it was soon too dangerous for
impartial persons to make suitable enquiry.
These are- fails that arc well remembered.
I believe the yellow fever was at much im
ported in the year 1793, as 11 *** ,n
present year, when in this latter instance,
we well know, that many of the alleys,
and mod fufpieiotn places, in the middle
and upper parts of the city, were not fub
jeft to the dire disease, except it was com
municated t>y an intercourse with infc&ed
persons.
Piwfs enough have been adduced by
other writers refpefting the latter importa
tion ; and the cafe is rtowTo plain, that to
make a doubt about the origin of the dis
order,' would be just as reasonable as to
doubt that thousands of the inhabitants de
serted the city in consequence of
the expenses have been enormous, and the
.loss of lives a truly awful fubjedt of sorrow
and lamentation.
That the extent of the calamity was not
equal to that in 1793, is a cause for thank
fulnefs ; and I am one of those who believe
that thinning the city of its inhabitants by
removing to the country, was one of the
means, uuder Providence, of the preserva
tion of a very considerable number of my
fellow citizens from the dangers of a dive
contagion.
Philadelphia, Oftober 22d, 1797.
/torth gazette yrf; uniteb states.
Mr. Fenno,
It has been insinuated that Dr. Ruih de
rived the use of calomel, in the yellow fe
ver, from Dr.' Hodge and Dr. Carson ;
but that he could not have derived its use
from these gentlemen, the following consi
derations will afford the mod undeniable
proof. Dr. Ruih prescribed calomel in the
yellow fever as early as the 7th of August,
1793, as appears from his work on the fe
ver ; whereas Dr. Hedge and Dr. Carson
did not recommend that medicine till late
in the above mouth. Moreover, Dr. Rush
had been in the habit many years before,
of using calomel in private pradlice in bili
ous diseases ; -end in his lectures in the year
1792# the Do£tor strongly recommended
it in the cure of these diseases, and quoted
Dr. Clarke and Dr. Balfour as his authori
ties for such a praftice. But further, the
manner in which Dr. Rush gave calomel
fliews the improbability of his having de
rived its life from Dr. Hodge and Dr. Car
son. Dr. Ruih gave it combined with jalap,
in the fame way. that he had seen it exhi
bited by Dr. Thomas Young in the military
hospitals during the late war. He also gave
it in certain stages of the disease in frnall
doses, to ifiduce a salivation. Now Dr.
Hodge and Dr. Carson gave it in large
doses, u«comb;ncd with any purgative sub
stance, and only with a vifcw to excite purg
ing. It is easy to conceive how Dr. Hodge
might be Jed to suppose that be was the
author of this difeovery ; he haft just conic
from behind a counter, and probably had
not read a medical book, nor conversed on
a rhedical fubjeft, for fifteen or twenty
years. Ufeful hints in medicine have often
been taken from weak people, and even old
people. No man, I believe, is more dis
posed to acknowledge obligations to those
(b'urces of knowledge than Dr. Ruih, but
in the prefect instance the iuiinuation is
foundation.
A former Pupil of Dr. Rush.
AGE OF REASON. J
Mr. Erfkine's addvefs to the court of,
king's bench, on the trial f6r this publication
of Paihe's detestable and vulgar doCtrines in
his &ge of Reason, was one of the molt a
bleand elegant harangues in support of the
established that has to
boad The following are in it,
which we with pleasure seleCt in defence of
tjiechriftian caitfe, and in honor of its infpir
defender !
The book, he laid, appeared to him to
be as crtlel and mischievous in its eftefts, 3s
it was illegal in its principle?. The poor,
wham it affeCted to pitv, were daibb&i iri the
heart by it ; they had more need of conso
lations beyond the grave, than those who
had greater comforts to render life delight
ful. He could conceive an humble, inno
cent, and virtuous man, surrounded with
children, looking up to him for bread Which
hertiad not to givi t'aem, finking under the
lad day's labour, and unequal to the next;
yeft dill looking Hp with confidence to the
hour, when all tears (hould be wiped from the
eyes of affliction, and bearing the burthen
which he believed his Creator had laid upon
Win for good, in the mysterious difpenfa
tioris of a Providence which he adored.—
What a <change in such a mind might not
be wrought by this merciless publication ?
But it seems this was an Age of Reason,
and the time, and the person were arrived,
that were to diffipatc the errors which had
oterfpread the pad generation of ignorance !
The believers in christianity were many ;
but it belonged to the few that were wife to
correct their credulity. Belief was an aft
of reason ; and superior reason might there
fore diCtate to the weak. In running the
mind along the pious lilt of sincere and de
vout chrididns, he could not help lamenting
that Newton had not liVed to this day, to
have had his (hallownefi filled up with this
neiu flood of light ! But the subjeCt was too
awful for irony ; he would speak plainly and
direCtly :—Newton wa6 a ehriftian. New
ton, whose mind had burft,from the fetters
cad by nature upou our finite conceptions ;
NewtoH, whose science was truth, and the
foundation of whose knowledge of it, was
philofophv—not those visionary and arro
gant pre'fumptioris, which too often u
surped its name, but philolophy resting
upon the basis of mathematics, which like
figures, could not lie ; Newton, who car
ried the line and rule to the uttermost bar
riers of creation, and explored the princi
ples by which, no doubt, all created matter
was held together, and exilts. But this ex
traordinary man, in the mighty reach of his
mind, overlooked perhaps the errors, which
a minuter inteftigatio» of the created things
on this earth might bave taught him of the
essence of his Creator. What (hould then
be said of the great Mr. Boyle, who looked
into the organic struCture of all matter, e
ven to the brute inanimate substance which
the foot treads on ; such a man might be
supposed to be equally Qualified with Mr.
Paine to look up through nature, to na
ture's God. But the result of all his contem
plation was the mod confirmed and devout
belief ib all, which the other holds in con
tempt, as despicable and drivelling super
stition. t
But this error might perhaps arise from
a want of due attention to the foundation of
human judgment, and the ftni&ure of that
understanding which God has given us for
the invedigation of truth. Let that ques
tion be anfwtred by Mr. Locke, who was,
to the higheit pitch of devotion and adora
tion, a ehriftian. Mr. Locke, whose office
was to deteCt. the errors of thinking, by
going up to the fountains of tho't, and 'to
direCt into the proper triCt of reasoning the
devious mind of man, by (hewing him its
whole process, from the firfl preceptions of
sense, to the last conclusions of ratiocination,
putting a rein besides upon falfe opinion, by
pra£tical rules for the condnCt of 4iuman
nature.
But these men were only deep thinkers,
and lived in their closets, unaccuftomcd to
the traffic of the world, and to the laws
which practically regulate mankind.
Gentlemen, in the place where we now
fit to adminilter the justice ofthi* great coun
try, above a century ago, the never to-be
forgotten Sir Matthew Hale presided, whose
faith in chriftianity,i»an exalted commenta
ry upon its truth, and reason, and whose life
was a glorious example of its sweets, admin
ftering human jultice with a wisdom and
purity, drawn from the pure fountain of the
ehriftian dispensation, which has been, and
will be in all ages, a subjeCt of the highest
reverence and admiration.
But it is said by the author, that the ehrif
tian fable is but the tale of the more ancient
fuperftitiens of the world, and may be easily
detefled, by a proper understanding of the
mythologies of the heathens. Did Milton
understand those mythologies ? Was he less
versed than Mr. Paine in the superstitions of
the world ? No ; they were the subjeCt of
his immortal song thouhgh fliut out
from all recurrence to them, he poured them
forth from the ftorcs of his memory, rich
with all that men ever knew, and laid them
in their order as the illustration of that real
jrld exalted faith, the unquestionable source
of that fervid genius, which cast a fort of
(hade upon other works of man—
He pa(Te4 the bouiMj of (laming (pace,
Where angeU tremble while they gaze,
He faw,.tiH blaflcl with exeefs of light,
His eyes were closed in endless night!
. But it was the light of the body only
that was in liim extinguished ; *' the eelef
tial light (hone inward, .and enabled him to
vindicate the ways of God to man/' The
result of his thinking was nevertheless not
the fatne as the author's. The mysterious
incarnation of our blefied saviour, which this
; work blasphemed in words so wholly unfit
• for the mouth of a chriflain, or for the ears
. ' of a court of justice, that he durst not and
would not give them utterance. Milton
made the grand conclusion of the paradile
!oft, the reft from his fini(hed labtitirs, and
the ultimate hope, expectation and glory of
the world—
A Virgin is his Mother, '
Rut hit Sire the power of the Mod High,
He (hall afeend the Throne Hereditary,
And hound his reign with earth's wide bounds.
His glory with the Heavens, f
LORD ANSON.
PROSPERITY, wealth, and even fame
itfelf, are too often the casual' offspring of
mere chancy, and a train of incidents uni
formly lucky and fortunate ; but an exer
cised fortune, occasionally chequered, tra
versed, and clouded by the dorms of adver
sity, can educate and form the able
rpan, or the experienced mariner.
If lord Anfon, 111 his celebrated courf?,
had learned to brave the wintry season,
and bid defiance to the churlilh chiding of
the winter's \rinds, the seventh circumnavi
gation was our great marine,feminary, where
the fchool, the naval heroes of the
splendid aera from 1757 to 1763, were early
nnrfed and rocked in the cradle of adver-
Sir Charles Wager's well.concerted plan j
for the expedition in 1739, was fatally tra- j
versed and counteracted, in the equipment, !
destination, and departure of that fqwadron. I
LOrd Anfon triumphed over enemies more
formidable than the Spaniards, adverse sea
sons and unfortunate events, and feturned
home enriched, not so much by thetreafures
of tfie Manilla galleon, as by the more last
ing treafur«s of marine science, the extension
of our naval influence, and the reputation of:
our flag, fuccefsful in the South Sea, aud
formidable in China. As he commenced
that war with success, so he terminated it
with glory in 1757, by the capture of the
whole French fleet, loaded with treasure, off
Cape Finifterre.
The cotempofaries of this great faijor still
remember and speak with delight of his mo
desty and moderation. He seemed desirous
i>f the solid poffeflion of merk, and not of
the echo of renown. No man, jnftly confi
dent of his own virtue, ever envied the re
putation of another. A general patron of
merit, he rendered the moll ample justice to
a native of Ireland, protected only by his
abilities ; though his own glory seemed al
most eclipsed in 1747, by fir Peter Warren,
aiding his promotion, joining in the nation
al lamentation for the premature destiny of
that hero, over whose monumental urn the
Naval Genius of Britain lhal) weep, while
his memory is embalmed by the regret, and
preserved in the grateful recolleCtion of his
country. For the great service off Cape
Finifterre, he was rewarded with a British
peerage in 1747. Lord Anfon terminated
that war with glory, and rendered it as fuc
cefsful at sea as it had been unfortunate on
the continent; while his maritime fuperin
tendance from 1756 to 1762 —3, was the
primary instrument of lord Chatham's ad
miriiftration, in the most splendid xra of the
British annals. Let it .be remembered that
we owe that success to naval fuperintend
ance. Partiality has been imputed—a pre
ference of the Anfon school, of the (hip
mates of the Centurion, since unjust and
idle prejudices bare been formed in favor of
landmen presiding in the marine department.
Bat when we recolleCt the names of Brett,
Saumarez,Keppel,Weft, Bofcawcn, Hawke
and Rodney, the nation (hares the offence
—the loud voice of the community freely
confeffes the charge of partiality. Would
that we could look upon their like again 1
Would that we could fee such leaders, to
render England once more pre-eminent, to
extend her power as in that renowned peri
od, as far as winds could waft, or fails could
carry the triumphs of the British empire—
At that period the desire of Cromwell was
accompliflied, to render the name of a Briton
as memorable at that of an aicient Roman ;
but it is not in the enthusiasm of our coun
trymen, or in the praise of our own history,
but in Voltaire's age of Louis the fifteenth,
in 1759, in the simple title of a chapter, that
we trtfce our fairelt eulogium.
" The English •victorious in the four quarters
of the Globe."
The riciffitudes of dates, like the ebbing
and flowing of the fmrounding ocean, are
perhaps prescribed by the wife decrees of
the, great Ruler, impenetrable to human
fagocity ; secondary causes oftfn contribute,
however, to their decline. The eJamina-,
tion of these reasons may rouse men from
a state of palsied torpor, of national lethar
gy, and political vegetation. Individual
happiness is an aggregate of public welfare.
If it be true, that they, can have no solid
enjoyment, even of their own.wealth, in
an exhausted and declining date, it follows
that those are the wisest who preserve their
own through the public intered. Hence it
follpws, that those half-witted, cunning J
mortals, wn"o purfne'the dictates ofa ftiere
felfifh intered, can have no praise for exer- !
cifing a faculty common to the brute crea
tion ; but fatally, in the present period,
the old goflipping maxim prevails, he mud
be the wisest man who does the mod for
himfelf; and the alarmid, who barters his
anxiety for vast wealth, is a paragon of wis
dom ; though, perhaps, when they pass off
the dage, they may have a claim to the
well-known epitaph of a Persian king,
" that he enjoyed life, had what he ate and
drank, and that every thing else was va
nity j" au epitaph which Aridotle consi
ders not as fit for a man, but a hog.
In o*ur rewards and promotions, tnerit is
lead confidcred; —writers oflafcourousworks
of national in ft ruction, are starved; while
the flippant authors of pamphlets are re
warded with princely fortunes. To inform j
is deemed presumptuous; to delude, is allow,
edj benyvplence and wisdom pass for infir
mity;' and fraudulent imposture is deemed
the bed proof of ability; while 110 reason can
be assigned for many important appoiiitr
ments, save only that they arc prizes in the
date lottery of official afangements. Our
enemies, it is but too true, pursue a contra
ry plan 4 and avail themselves of literacy gra
tification. Bift, on the contrary, if we,
look back to the feveri yeai*> war, we (kail
find every species of merit rewarded. In
1 759> a rfwsrd was advertised ia the
London Gazettt, by the Admiralty, to
the writer of a letter to a newspaper, if he
would perfor.ally explain a national propofi
tjon for pufelie welfare. Such reasons pre
vailed—-for all the state offices and appoint
ments, that probably othcrwife would uot,
have beep ch .a T*edi>y a general ballot.
The pyramid of Lord Chatham's admin
istration was fouaded ,on the wide base of
ifcerit, of graduated arrangements and pro
motions, of approved services, while his own
genius prefixed and crowned the summit of
the edifice.
" Those who are lighted ly a lamp Jhvuld
fesdit with oil:" the just reproach of Anax
agoras to Pericles, was not applicable to
Lord Chatham, Otnnifcience is not'the por
tion of men; he was not ashamed of acknow
ledging inftru£tions'( to use his own words)
not only by praise, but by promotion. If
lord Chatham derived his naval science from
the Lamp of Lord Anfor.'s experience, be
it remembered, that that lamp was rendered
more beneficially eonfpicious by its just po
rtion and fair elevation. The pnfthumous
eulogium of Lord Chatham, in paints
the true character of Lord ■ Asfon, who
would wi(h to aVnplify the defcriptibrt of
Anaxagoras, traced'by Perk ts or retouch
the potrait of Caesar, draw;: by CJcero. |
" Inflru&ed (said lord fjiaith irp in 1771)
by a great seaman, 1 have be; . cojiverfant
in marine (latious and arrai ::eToenrs, and
drew nfy infermatien fror- ft naval
authority that ever cxr 1 din tjhjs country,
I mean the late Lord An foil; l Ji'i spite of a
popular clamor, agaiqfl'l him, mijurtly ex ci
ted in 1 756, I-prefer 'dl; % at the "head
of the admiralty. * I 4>a«# Cod J had the
firmnels to do so. 1 nrrits.ofthat great
man are not so. junf*. r-• jy kn o v't r., nor the
memory ofthe> I f v ;-rmly'
refpedied as he d-. care, wis
dom, experience ar r .gilasce (j : fp«ak j,t
with pleasure and c. t) coili ' yis
much indebted. Th -, 1 ri gWie:'. of the
seven years war are to tx ft: : bed fo'ths sa
gacious counsels of,that g ciretiianavJga
ter - /'
W ALPOLE, (N. H.J Oftober a.
SUMMARY.
INCIDENTS ABROAD.
The French mirnicks, it i'<ems, are now
performing the last aft of their monstrous
farce of liberty. Bitter Jealousy rankles
among the council of five hundred, ambition
dictates the councils the dire&ory, and
tbe Grand Turk of , iitary despotism ar»
bitrarily governs the free and equal Parisian.
The eonftitutibii is violated by the interfer
ing soldier, two of the French tyrants clamor
for peace, more invoke Ate hot from hell;
the rovrlifts rear their heads, and the dis
jointed fabric of fhawilowy rc publicanifm
lhakrs, like the old beldame of the poet.
Peace at Lisle walks with grave, flow and
measured ftepa. Peace between France and
Portugal is concluded. A judieloifs paflenv
ger iu the Minerva states that England,
though alone, is fuffieient to guard her
conftitnt'on agaifift muting at the Nore or
the invajions of the French.
Spain is' 3 dumb Tffachar, couching un
der the burthen of fraternity,—Holland
builds Ihips, aflis for a De Ruyter, and pru
dently detains them in the Texel, —Germa-
ny fofters letters, hangs op the helmet and
sword, and lefts from the labors of war—
and Italy is o:\ tar scan. -to Mi* »ek yoj.c,
the infallible Buonaparte.
In the London papers *we find the usual
column of wit and plcafantry. Francis, a
noted placeman, is happily compared 50 his
great predecefTor in Shakespeare's Henry
IV. he is always ready with his "'anon,
anian, fir-" This might be pertinently ap-
to some of our time-serving and ob
sequious gentry.
" Better to reign in Hell" is now the
motto of the minority : therefore they at
tempt to raise the hell of anarchy, to get in
to a warm birth.
The long waist is attempted to be again
introduced by certain starched tabbies. This
is the consequence of imperious neceflity ; if
youth and beauty would give leave every
old maid in the kingdom would be as (hort
waifted as Shakespeare's Julietta. A young
woman lately in a fit of love threw a con
gragation into great consternation by at
tempting a forcible seizure of a Jiifs from a
clergyman of the Parish, \Wiile performing
his clerical fun&ions.
Mrs. Inchbald has written an account! of
her life from the age of thirty, which com
prehends the hiftory'of her own times, fu
far as relates to the stage and her literary
connexions.
Mrs. Powell, the aftrefs, though not
partial to the Dutch is said to be not averse
to Holland.
BOSTOft, October 16.
[By desire of the French Conful.J
CAPE FRANCOIS.
Extradl.of t}, e R e gift C i- of Deliberations, of
the Commission delegated by the' French
Government to the Leeward Islands.
Seeing ti petition presented to the Com
mission on the 6th of last F r 'maire, by
Hughes Wilson, command®!' and owner t>f
the schooner Anna Maria of Baltimore, ill
consequence whereof, AUgustus Love, cap
tain of the privateer La Vertu, of I'Anft-a-
Veau isaccufed of having ill treated the .pe
titioner, of having eapturcd his vefTel, dis
posed thereof, as wtll as of the cargo with-
I out a previous judgment, pronouncing the
validity of the prize :
Seeing a letter directed, on the 30th Flo
real lalt, to the commission,' by the Consul
General of the French Republic, near th«
United States of America, by which it ap
pears, that said Auguiins Love, commits
in the leas of Hifpaniola the moil hon'id pi
racies under divers flags ;
Considering tbatjthe bulk ofinformatiVn»
given to the commission, or wtyjch theyhav#
collided themselves, about Augustus Love,
is equivalent to public notoriety, of the ex
cefies by him committed, againlt the rights
of nations and individuals.
Considering that thp violation ef those f«*ered rights, are unjuftifiable, from the na
ture of their mifdceds, of the agents of every
government.
The eomraiflion enjoins all the command
ers of the (hips of the Republic, and ,all
captains of privateers, to seize upon Augus
tus Love, rnd deliver him up to the autho
rities of thi> fir ft port they may call in.
The commifiiou invites the superior agents
of the allied or neutral governments, to take
the fame measures with regard to Augustus
Leva, aiid for that purpose (hall be sent to
them an* extraft of/ this arret, which is he-
to be inserted in the official bulletin
of St. Domingo. •»
Done at Cape Francois on the 16th
Thermidor, sth year of the French
Republic, one and indivisible.
Signed,'oil the Records of Verbal Process,
the commiflioners of the French Govern
ment.
SANTHONAX,
RAIMOND,
Pascal, Secretary General.
CHARLESTON, Oft. 15.
By a gentleman of this city, whp arrived at Sa
vannah 00 Friday lal, in the sloop Cleopatra,
tvblcii left the Havqnua the lith inft. we have been
favored with the following information.
P' FRENCH PIRACIES.
Thy number of American veilcls which have
bfxu carried into the Havanna by French privateers,
and comLmne** there, exceed one hundred. Nine
American -veflels f-nt in there in one day by one
French privateer, and three or lour of a day are
cotr.men. Upon their rrrival at the Havanna, the
crews arc turn J d on fliorc, the vefiels
and cargoes are lold, upon a fiiam security, given
Jor obtaining their condemnation ftom Care
, Francois. Thure i-, however^ firong i-eafon for
believing, that Wank condemnations are sent in
theie from the Cape, to render proceedings (hort.
A boat of about *5 tons burthen, with lateen
fails, arrived at Barracoa in days paflaee from
Cadiz, which (he left on the Jd of August. She
brought dispatches for both the governors of Ha
vanna and La Vera Cruz, which were forwarded
to them over land.
Gr»at secrecy was observed, and very little in
telligence had transpired; it was supposed that it
was not of a very agrecab!? nature at any rate, as
all the money that eould be colle&ad at both plac
es, was ordered to be immediately sent to Spain ;
likeWise ail the uncoined prepared ote and in cafe
there OwuW not be a fufficiency of money and ore,
to fend even the images from the churches.
From the above information, and at the time of
thi« dispatch boat having left Cadiz,it is not unlike
ly, that thefenrgent demands aretofatisfy Earl St.
VincentV contributions upon Cadiz.
The ■ sloop Difeovery, Parry, from Jamaica for
this port, is carried into the Havanna.
It is computed, that the duties to be paid into
the cuflom house of this port, from the cargoes of
the four ihips lately arrived fron London, will ex
ceed ioo,obo dollars. /
%f)c (Basettt.
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, October i*.
Sinae la ft publication, the commilfioners
'Wave received the following donations, viz.
From Molt.
Henry Hill 5°
A. Negro 5
Huzinga Nafchetl 4^.
From inhabitants of Abington and citizens
of Philadelphia now there, at follows—
Dots.
William Sitgreaves 3°
Jsmes Whitehead 3°
Ralph Peacock * 3°
Leef«m Sr Joseph Simmons 3°
John Maybin 3°
Isaac Potts 3°
John Sitgreaves 20
John R. Smith r 20
James Gibfon ' 20
William Flintham 20
William Redwood 20
Lydia Gilpin 20
Robefon &
Samuel Noble 1 5
Cafll(froma Lady)P *0
Thomas Barnes,jun.
Williaim Shannon to
Isaac Rich 10
Abraham Colladay 10
Richard Noble 10
Wityiatn & Jona. Leedom i°
■ Samuel Jotics 10
Robert Hitzheimer * 5
• Thomas Baker 5
Richard Robinson 5
Jonathan Tyfon.jr. 5
Samuel SohoKield ; 5
Joseph Shoemaker 5
William Jones 4
Jzmes M'Calla 4
Domio ic. Sherridan 1
John C. Wells 10
Cash, by the bands of "1
Wni. Moore Smith j
Phinea/; Bond 100
Samue'l Wilcocks 20
From inhabitants of German-"!
town a.nd citizenspf Phila- ( g Q
delphin at present there, by f
Gid.Hill Wells—addition. J
From citizens of Philadelphia now in Block
ley and lower Merion townships, and in
habitants of said townships, as follows—
Dolt.
Chajles Biddle 5°
„ Richard Peters 5°
Col. Francis Johnson 20
David Jackson i*
Mrs. Harland
Algernon Roberts 10
David Roberts 10
Edward Roberts !>0
Hugh Knox 10
Jghn Heaton 10
Thomas &
Mary Roberts 5°
Thomas Geotge 1 20
Jonathan Jones - 20
Rachel Whartoa 20
, Jacob Jones -'O
Charles Jervis
Jacob Zell °
William Govett °
William Roberts 6
Thomas Cochran 5
"Enoch Thomas 5
wWilliam Huffey 5
Xieorge Helmbold 5
j Robert Roberts -v 5
; Jqhn Price 5
Rebecca George 5
Richard Crane 5
William Jones 4
Joseph Price 4
Abel Thomas 4
Jefle Thomas 4
Henry Helmbold 4
John Thomas 4
Mary Stephen 3
George Hirts 3
Isaac Bond 3
Thomas Goucher 4 20
David Zell 2 5,0
Phineas Roberts ' 2
Benjamin Tunis 2
Jacob Latch 2
Mrs. Sheets 2
Jonathan Walton 2 .
John Thomas 3
Jacob Morris 2
John Fraley 2
Lewis Thomas 3
Mary Gamble 3
Alexander Hoffman 1 55
Jacob Johnson 1 10
George Marthall 1
David Latch 1
John Rowland I
George Grove I
Frederick Grove 1
Isaac Hayn I
Hannah. Moore X
Jacob Hoffman 1
Chriilopher Leach 1
Cash from sundry persons .18
From Charles Weft, of New-Jersey, io2lbs.
mutton and 47lbs. beef.
From the inhabitants of Radnor, (addition
al) 15 bushels of potatoes, \\ cwt. of
buck wheat meal, 3 bushels of turnips,
and 1 cwt. of rye flour.
From the widow Lukens of this city, 3 cwt.
of buck wheat meal, 15 bulhels of pota
tatoes, and 6 do. turnips.
From Pearfon Hunt, 3 bis. rye flour.
From an inhabitant of New-Castle, 1 bbl.
of fuperfine flour, 1 do. of potatoes, 1
" keg of pearl bailey and I bag turnips.
From Charles Shoemaker, 5 bbls. of flour.
EDWARD GARRIGUES,
Secretary.
The number of deaths in the city and
suburbs, for the 48 hours ending yesterday
at noon, was Twelve.
TO THE PUBLIC.
The following is the Copy of a paper, read
by a gentleman at my request, and in my
presence, to Dr. B. Rush, on Saturday
the2iftinft.
" Dr. Currie informs Dr. Rufli, that he
is the author of the account of Dr. Ruth's
conduft and practice, publifhcd in the Ga
zette of the United States, the 6th inft. and
can produce refpeftable teftitnony in support
of the truth of the fads contained in that
publication.
" If Dr. Ruth is deiirousof knowing why
Dr. Currie published those fads, heanfwer6
because, he believes they will determine the
question, whether Dr. Rulh is entitled or
not, to the credit of the important difcove
rie3 in the healing art, to which he is
to lay claitp, and which are ascribed to him
by his zealous friands ; and also to bring to
an issue the question, so interesting to the
community, relative to the tnoft fuccefsful
tpetbod of treating the malignant fever
which has infeftedandoccafioned such deplo
rable mortality in different sea-port towns of
America, since the year 1793-
" If, however, Dr. Ruth (who profef
fes to make tnjth thf>guide of all his actions
and the leadingobjeft of all his rtfearches,)
(hall make it appear that Dr. Currie has mis
stated or miiYeprefented any fad or circum
stance in that publication, he fliall think
himfelf bound by the inviolable regard be
has for truth, to make apublicacknowledge
ment of his error, and to make every repa
ration confident with justice : For Dr. Cur
rie entertans the old fathioued opinion, that
nothing is more honourable than the inge
nuous confeflion of an error, except never
committing one. Dr. Rulh will doubqfcfs
agree with Dr. Currie, th§t the truth ora
ny ocurrence, can be determined only
by the testimony of refpe&able charafters,
and can neither be eftablithed nor inva
lidated by the event of a Duel, much less
by the weapon of a Ruffian or a Bravo.
On the contrary the man who has recourse
to either of those methods to defend his
char after, or to juftify his conduct, affords
to every refle&ing mind the strongest argu
ment that he is deficient in common sense,
or that his cause is unsound, and will not
bear a fair and rational difcullion. Instead,
therefore, of being considered as a of
courage, a challenge ought to be considered
as a proof of guilt, and the challenger brand
ed with infamy.
" Dr. Curdle withes to avoid a personal
contest, but if assaulted, he will not. be an
swerable for the eo'nfequences.
" No notice will be taken of any thing
that comes frqm the pen of any person but
Dr. Ruth himfelf on the present occasion."
Written t)£lober 20th, and read to Dr.
Rush the 21 ft.
Since the above contents were commu
nicate to Dr. Rush, I have received an a
busive and insulting communication from his
for. John, but as I believe him to be either a
lunatic or a ruffian, I tTtould think it a re
flection upon my understanding to take a.fly<
notice of any thing he can possibly fay.
The impertinent little coxcomb also that
wears a Spencer, and afts the Merry-An
drew for little boarding-school misses (hall
be treated with silent Contempt.
WILLIAM CURRIE.
Ph)lad. OS. 2\th, I 797.
N. B. The name of the author of the
account of Dr. Ruth's conduct, &c. was o
riginally left with the Editor, with difc&ions
to be communicated to. Dr. Ruth, 011 appli
cation. Why then tvas not applicafibn
made, before the afiault was
Dr. Refc I
TRANSLATED
for the Gazette of the United States.
LIBERTY. EQUALITY.
Hague, the id Tbermr.hr sth year
[Z3tb Jvty 1797] :f Je French
republic, ove *nd jrulintiftEle.
The minister plenipotentiary of ttie French
republic near the Batavian republic, to the
Batavian natiolial assembly.
CITIZENS REPRESENTATIVES,
It is at the moment in which the Batavian
people are about to assemble to exercise the
mofc effr.ntial right of a free nation, that of
giving to themselves a conflitution, which
(Ball replace ithern in the rajik of the Euro
pean powers, that the tindei figaed fulfils the
niofl; pleafmg duty, iu addrefl\ng to you, in
the name of his government, its sincere feli
citations upon this aufpieious epocha, and
upon the wisdom which produced it.
In this circumstance, decisive as to the
fate of the Batavians, the executive directory
of the French republic, who have incessant
ly kept an eye 011 the important labors which
you have so ; happily terminated, doubtless'
feel their most lively interest redoubled, and
Conceive that they (hould seize the oppor
tunity of manifefting to the whole nation the
sentiments of a faithlul ally, by the public
txpreffion of their vows for her, —of their
hope and benevolence.
It is not fufficient for them to have sus
tained, with a constant folicitnde, the inter
ests of the Batavian people, in that fucctffion
of negotiationsbrought about by the wisdom
of their councils as wrelj as the eclat of the
arms of France ; to have acquired for them
new alliances as ufefutas impo/ing, and there
by to have aftbeiated them to the grand des
tinies of the French people : They do not
dissemble that fa many advantages would be
iilufory and trifling, without the invaluable
benefits of a wife and a stable
government, whidh are the firft wanta of
people.
But if the dire&ory has been penetrated
with sincere joy on learning that this con
stitution, lo long expected, wars on the point
of being presented to the Batavian nation,
how much is that fatisfa&ion heightened,
when, by considering the whole of your
constitutional labors, tbey conceive the* fee
preserved therein, .;not only the true and
grand principles which preserve individual,
political and civil liberty ; but also those of
wife Philosophy, enlightened by sxperience;
when they find therein, instead of that bad
ly combined mixture of partial sovereign
ties, with clashing interests .incessantly in
creasing, a unity which is the life of the
political body, the concentration of the
sovereignty of the national representation,
the exaft demarcation of powers, the fre
quent renewal and gradual advancement of
the public functionaries, in a word, the peri
odical return of primary assemblies, which
continually bring autliority back to its pri
mitive source, and to the happy situation of
legally benefitting, f<ps the amelioration of
social order, from the errors even of the wife,
and the result of observation.
However the Freiloh government" is far
from pretending to attribute to the grand
work, which has just' come from your hands,
the merit of perfe<Sion,"'lcAvffi'g nothing to
be wished for, and uniting all fuffrages. It
knows that everf human prddudVion is he
ceflarily imperfifft. But it conceives that
here at least the imperfeftions are trifling
and easy to be remedied } as fuccefiive legi
flaturas may, in calmer moments, corred
abuses which occur, contrary to the princi
ples and happiness of the people ; as one
of the greatest civic virtues is to facrifice
felf-love and felfilh ideas to the common in
terest and general opinion ; and as, in a
wotd, for the very honor of the Batavian
nation, it thought proper to to this
code, long meditated, and folemnly as
freely discussed by its national assembly, a
privilege which is never refufed to the im
portant produ&ions of human Industry,
that of having no other judges than time
and experience.
Batavians ! happy Batavians ! No fuc
ceft, no violence has hith'crto sullied your
honorable revolutiou. Civil difcerds have
not armed your innocent hands, and the
good sense of the nation, warned by dread
ful example, has pfeferved it from those fa
tal strokes, by which thi foundations ef
the greatest empireS-fiavd be£u fllaken. It
depends upon you toaffureifflyourfelvesthe
glory of the most fortunate exception. It
depends upon you to give to the two worlds
in which "your industry and your conquests
ltave accomplished things worthy of remem
brance, and which contemplate with interest
your regenerating efforts, the only example
of a people, paffir.g, without tumult, from
opprefiion to liberty, and tranquilly renew-'
ing, and without convulsions, their-politi
cal existence.
This glory is too pure and too affecting,
this happiness is too rare and too great, for
yon not t6 fear exposing both to the uncer
tainty of events. No, you will not fee
without ala'rtn all the dangers to which civil
diffentions, to which the poftpariement of
the constitution, would infallibly lead. You
will refleft in your wisdom, that if energy
causes revolutions, reason alone reaps the
fruit of them ; that between the diffoluti
onof the social body and despotism, which
is reanimated by anarchy, there is only the
constitution, and one moment granted for
obtaining it ; that the ntimberlefs inconve
niences from great delay would strike at the
mother country and its colonies, in their
■political connections, ill tfteit commercial
relations, in* their interior administration ;
and the evils forefecn dill do not perhaps
equal thole which it is impossible todifcern.
In a word, a motive of .another kind,
and which doubtless has not escaped the
penetration of you, legifl3tors, is, that a
cenftituted goverrment is the surest pledge
which states can reciprocally offi&r for the
execution of treaties ; and that in this re
fpeft things could not bt equal between the
two powers, as long as the destiny of the
Batavian people should remain liable to the
uncertain course ot political difctifiions, aud
( to the ilormy chacce of contrary opinions.'
From all these important considerations,
the Executive Dire dory wifli to persuade
themfelvcsrtljjit that reftitude of judgment
which eminently diflinguifhes the Batavian
people, will not permit-them to be diverted
-from their^p/interefts ; and that they will
not fail to accept favourably a social ocm
paft which pronjifes them such great advan
tages, which annihilates all diftinftion and
every hope of party, which renders to them
political rank -andconlalidates their exiltence,
the zeal to their tranquility, and
re-opens a field to their indnftiy ; and he
pleases beforehand, in the agree
i able profpeft which the acceptance of* the
project of a constitution offers to them, which
lias their fuffrage and all their views—the
i return of the ancient Batavian glory, of that
national cnthufiafmof which we have just
seen such honorable proofs, of a considerati
on which your political importance, your
past ftrcceffes and the happiness of your geo
graphical position, have rendered familiar
to you ; and which (houid make you feel
the necessity and progress of a prosperity,
equally intercfting to both republics.
Health and Fraternity,
(Signed) F. NOEL.
■■■■<—n—l———
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, October 23.
The attention and willingness of eheEn
glifh in affording proteftian to our floating
property, cannot be spoken of in too strong
terms of praise. " American veffeli, may,
at all times, have convoy, on application to
Admiral St. Vincent, off Cadiz." Of this
we are assured, by Capt. Rich, arrived at
Boston, in 40. days from Lilbon. This at
l tention seems to be general: for, by the re
quest of Captain Sinclair, of the fliip Pigou,
of this port, in cofljunftion with Captain
Da»idfott, of the {hip Eagle, of Glasgow,
bound to Jamaica, Admiral KingfmUl, com
mander of the squadron on the Irilh ftfttion
granted them two frigates, the Diana, capt'.
Faulkner, and the Cerberus, Captain Drew,
which convoyed them as far as the laos
long. 21, where the.y parted in a
tremendous gale, which prevented a farther
convoy from these fhipfc. The gentlemanly
conduft of the officers of the above vessels, •
have done themselves great honor, and left
the most favourable impreflimi on the mind
of Captain Sinclair, at well as a sense of ex
treme gratitude for the probable falyation
of a' valuable ship and cargo. ,
By the schooner William and Henry,
Capt. Butler, from Antigua, we are infor
med that the Lapwing and Thames frigates,
had taken and carried into the Iflandin the
month Sept. last, TWENTY FIVE fail of
FRENCH privateers, from fix to twenty
guns, and that one of the frigates brought
in, on one day, three of them, a ship of 20
guns, a schooner of 16, andafloopofi2—
at firft she took the schooner, manned her,
sent her in pursuit of the sloop, and went in
chafe of the ship.
No Colours had been hoisted at Mount's
Hill, as a signal of a French privateer, for
THREE weeks.
Captain L'vingfton, of the sloop Rachael,
in 14 days from Port-de-Paix, informs that
commodore Barney had arrived there, hav
ing been chafed in by a Bricifh 64, aild a
frigate.
The Belviderc, captain Ingraham, from
London, arrived here on Saturday, A Lon
don paper of the icjth of Augqft, two days
later than before received, contains nothing
important. Lord Malmefbury was (till at
Lisle.
Tfie Draper, capt. Coilins, is said to
have been taken by a French privateer, and
retaken by a British frigate fix days after her
capture by the former. This, one of the.
hands on board the Belvidere declares he
heard from the brig Palla6 from Dublin to
New York, which vessel they spoke on the
L2th inft. in the lat. ,pf 42. The Pallas- is
hourly "ejjpefte'd, until which arrival, we
must remain iu the dark refpe&ing the Dra- •
per.
Captain Ingraham underftogd in England
that our Commissioners had arrived in Hol
land.
The following gentleman came passen
gers in the Belvidere; Mr. James Fvan, of
Troy; Mr. and Ms. Harden; Mr. and
Mrs. Bradftreet,.-. of England; Mr. R. Ar
den, and-Mr.R. Livinglton, of this city;
Mr. YQU'ig, oF Pennsylvania; Mr. Martin,
and federal other gentlemen and ladies.
From the Lcmdpn morning Post:
" The Emperor of Russia has d/fmiffed
General Su warro\v,_ beeaufe he massacred
the Poles at Plague, We wish other Euro
pean MonaxQjjs,.would dismiss those who oc
ca'fiowtorry),tS of blood to be (hed!!!
NORFOLK, OA. 16.
sr authority.
THE Mayor and Aldermen, adjusted by a jifft
fdhfe*of the duty they owe their fellow citizei»,
have the TatisfaSion to announce, to the public,
upon the ftrifteft enqpiry of the phyticisns, they
are enabled to declare, that the maligHuet fymjoms
attending th? saver which lately afili&ed the tows,
have subsided—that whatever numbers of ficlc may
remain, the mortal,ty 1a» ceaftd, so that 110
more deaths talte place than is usual at. this season
of the year—tliat no necessity now exilb for res
training the intercourse, and no danger can result
from a free ingress and egress to and from the
town. And ona f#bjeit so highly interefling ta'he
community, they think it incumbent on them to
add, that the late fever was in a great measure lo
cal, and confined mostly to that part of the town
which is built on made land, the houses occupied
hy people »f discordant habits and different coun
tries, for the most. part much crowded, and little
regard paid to pTf|nal or hofifhold cleanlinjfs—
The natives am! o hci s (old inhabitants) rcfiding in
airy parts of the town, and observing a temneraite
diet, have enjoyed an unusual Ihare of haalthdur
ing the season. Norfilk Borough, Oct. 16, '97,
Captain M'Conncl, of the. brig Eliza, arri -
ved here on Saturday from Liverpool, spoke, on
■the cjh September, the brig Mary, IV att,from
Liverpool to Ntw-Tork, out 49 days, ail •welt.
On the -2 \/t September, spoke the schooner]
Nancy, Turnlti!l,from Crotiifl to New-York,
out 55 days, all VJell, but the vejpl very leaky.
On the 14tl) 08'jber, spoke thefhip American,
from Cape Nicßola Mob to Philadelphia, out
21 days, all ivell.
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESD.iT EFENIKG, OCTO3ER 14.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 23d to 24th Oct. in the morning.
Admitted', iin'ce hit report,
Jacob Sides, (Black) Small ft-ieet, new?
Old Theatre. v
Died since lad Report.
when admitted now lon;j i.l
ous toaamittance.
Edw. Edwards, 15th inll. 7 days.
Remaining last Report 29
Admitted since** 1
» ' r 30
Difc-harged o
Died 1 1
*' * 1
n .•.up •. 1 f Convalefcentsi 1"i
.Remain inHoipita), | 29
Three of whom are dangerous.
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From the city and suburbs ' I
From tlie city hospital 1
—-
Total 2
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John Connelly.
Published by order ps the board.
JOHN MILLER, Jan.
Chairman.
GAZETTE MARI-NE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived. d>.v^.
Ship Commerce, Chamberlain, Pert in Prince 30
BrigMcrlly, Jones Cap- Frautoss iS
Molly. Davine, do U
Delight, Sherman, Fttit Ouave ' '
Schr. I.'ivcly Lass, Cofer, dcr. .
Sincerity, -Monteith, Cnrracoa 31
Harmony, Nichols, Aux Caves 35
Ranger, I'ncr, Jacqoemel &%
EU.zaboth, Prazer, Port ati Prince 1?
,Foic, Kidnty-, do. , 30
Thomas, Wood, do. 50
fcloop L'Efpoire, L'i lirondel, • do. '3O
Driver, Brent, do. 30
Barret, -Smith, do. 30
New Tori, OSolcr 23.
ARRITE-D.
Ship Bdvidere, Ingraham, % London
Venelia, Paine, Gibraltar
Snow Nancy, Wells, Port-au-Prince
Sloop Rachel, Liringfton, do.
Schr. Greyhound, Greene, St. John's
Extratt from the log-book of the fftip Bel
videre, captain Ingraham.
Sept. 1, 49, long. 46 2, spoke
the Hannah of Bolton, bound to Ham
burgh.— 14th, lat. 42 28, lfwK- 38 ii,
spoke the Columbus of New
Lilbon to New York—l9th, lat. 43 58,
' on S* 43 2 3> spoke schooner Virginia from
Philadelphia, bound to Bourdeaux.
Odt. 12, -lat. 42 20, long. 63 o, spoke
Pallas, , from" Dublin for New York,
'l4th, lat. 39 36, long. 68 32, spoke
the Fair American of Bolton, from Glas
gow For Norfolk. »
Footman & Co's AtiElion Room»
THE public, are fefpc&fttlly informed, that the
-Tore of the fubferibers is how ©pen for the
rbeeption of Goods, and'the Sales trill commence
on Mono ay next, tie 30th inft. whef) will .be fold,
A large aflortrnent of Dry Goods.
AMONG WKI-CH ARE,
Superfine and common Cloths
Caflirneres, Flannels, Blankets
Coatings and Baizes
Cotton a;id worsted Hoficry
Chintzes and Calicoes
Chintz and purple Shaw's
Book and jaconet Muslins *
White and brown Lir.cns,
Tickings, Checks and Stripes,
• —ALSO—-
A quantity of Ladies' Morocco Shoe*.
FOO 1M AN <s* Co. Autfionccrt.
OA. 24. d
TO BE LET—At a moderate Rent,
The principal part of afeOUSE,
WITHIN a of the Cnffee-houfe,
which has been occupied fjr the last four inonth",
confittingof a good dining room and parlour, two
bed rr.oms and a drefiiug room, two garrets, kitch
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
6t fur the immediate reception of a final! family.
None need apply b > thofc who are reipeiflahls and
regular. Inquire at the officd of this Gazette.
OA. *4 tltf
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOON G,
Mo. Second-Hreet, cornrr of Chefnut-ftrect,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large affbrt
ment of Engli/l, French, Ljim and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Aijp, such elementary bopk»
on Science, as are generally read in.the academiei
and colleges throughout the United~State3.
LATELY fUBLISIJFD,.
Sheridan's Di&ionary, the sixth edition, in qco
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto,-targe 11 mo price 1 dol cts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 crs.
All fonts of drawing, packing, printing, ami
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards Pallebo;rds,
sheathing ard blotting Papers; printed Blinks,<
blank Books, Wax, Wafers and other.articles, of
the quality, used in the counting hoafc, or
public office.
Ct-ta'ornrs of a roifi ei'arenuv coUesi-*n of
BOOKS, with t've price of jach affixed, to fie 1.a.1
by inquiring as ab-.ve. Oil. 54 —3..W6W
Philadelphia y 03. 2Aftb, 1.7 9*7.
ALL perloin, dclirous to to fernifli Rr
lior.s and Quarter Mallei*'.-- Stores, during the
year 1 798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, oh Mud lfiand, Carlisle anu Reading, or
any of tnem. are desired to deliver their propofnlj,
under a fcled cover, on or before the jcth No
vember next to
' TENCH FRANCIS, Purvey*.
The Rations to corjiji ef
I pound Flour or 3read
1 pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Pork
gill Hum, Brandy or Vy'h &ey
x lh.<3ahdT<(s S
2 ' l J "' \ . >To M'ery hur.dred rations
a qua*ts Vinegar ( '
1 q'.iart Salt J f&f;lBLhNImported inthe J fhipManchester >
Benjamis Shewelj., Maimer,
FrOm Boufekavx, and for sale by the filfcl'criber,
No. ji Walnut StiVt.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish niarkct claret in cases Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas Murgatreyd. *
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota f' • do. do.
Pimento in bags
4.000 bufliels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the higlipfr bidder, at the houfe'of Mr.
William Evans, ,*he sign of the Indian
Queen, in rhe city of Baltimore, on t'he 15th.
day of OtSlober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acre's of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter'»-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidsrable part of
thele lands) the traift begins about 17 miles
from Balfimore, within a f«*v hundred yards
of said Keiiler'j-town, and extends to the dif
yince of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and'lies on the main falls of
river, from thr4c to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of One hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
lorn? of them highly improvedj with excellent
buildings and fine gnfs.
ALSO
A tratt of seven hundred acres of
liiidj called Clover Farms, within five milis of
Blailenflmrg, esteemed Very good for Grass.
Tiichard Pcnfonby,of Bladenlburgli, will shew
this land to any perfori inclined to purchase. j
also,
A traft of latld of about three hun
dred and thirty awes, within about two ipiles
and a half o:' the Pi'efident's house in the Fede
ral Ci.ty. It neatly all wood land, and a fine
liigh profpefl, frOiji whieh may be seen the
city of Washington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of Oeprge-town, and many mile?
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfort
by, of Bladenlburg, will also fiiew this land.
A",l'beral credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. J'he terms -will
be made known on the day ef sale.
May 8 W3ITI
-J ri'»
j U ai< eceived,
From Batavia (via.Providence)
A few Box.s of Spicei, coufifting of
N«tntegs, Clovesand Matt
for lale by
HILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Perni flrcct.
nay 70 ' dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
t • No. 319, Higfj-Stmt.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BkING buQed for feme time f aft in prepara
tions for removing into his prefect houie.has
been voi % tbeneteflityof potlponiiiguotil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro"
tha HAitcd Scates, that Kis spring importation of
law books i? now arranged ami ready for lale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
ference he has experienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues,- combining the mod rerittd coilce
tion ever imported iiito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June it. law 6w
City CojnmlJfioncrs' Office,
June i», ,1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the fejeijl
and common councils, palled the 2id day of
May lad, appointing the city ca*iimiffit>ner«,
and preferring their duties, fefiion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into live difcri&s,
eaeh to tie under the fuperintendance of one of
the city eommiffiontrs, w hois to he individually
relponfible for the eleanlmefi of the fame, and
»tc as folfcjw-
DriArill No. t. From the south fide of Ce
dar-ftrret, to the north fide of Spruce-street, Ull
rthe fuperintepdencc of Nathan Boys.
1. From the north fide of Spruce-itreer, to
the north ftde of Walnut-Areet, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to tkefouth
fide of Righ-Areet, under the fuperintendtnet of
Jofrph Claypoole. ' , f
4. From the north fide of Hijh-ftrcet, tothe
north fide of Mulberry Areet, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
j. "From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
(he north fide of Vine-Areetj under [he fuprr
intendencc of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-Areet to be in common.
iy A stated meetir.g of tht city commifiion
ers'isbeld at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday at 5 o'cldck.
July "T4. eolm
Stands for Dray nun, £sV.
Jn pur/uanet of an Ordinance from tbeSeleHand
Common Councils,bearing date the nd day of
Aprilr.l797, providing for the appointment of
City Comm 'iffioners, iSc. HeR. tbe 15tb.
THE following places are fixed upon by the
said City Commiffiooers for Stands for
Draymen and their Horfei.
In Vins-Areet, eastward of Front-Arett, on
both fides.
Safiafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-Afreets,
eastward of Front-Areet,on the no. th fide only.
Mulberry-street, fauth fide from Front to
Tbird-ftreet. •
Front-lire#-, east fide from Vine-Areet to ;
Elfrith's alley-
Front-Areet, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's taft fide.
Water-Areet, weft fide from the north end of
Stumper's or Moore's Aores to Pine-Areet.
IVnn-ftreet from Pine to Cedar-Areet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-Areet.
Spfuce, Pine arid South Areets, eaA of Front
♦rect, south fide.
Dcck-ftreet, between Walnut-Arett and
flag A one crossings, east. fide, tppofite George
Orkley's.
Seeond-Areet, between SaflTafrai and Vine
flrcete, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fids from Chefnut to Mul
berry Areets.
Saflafras-ftreet, from Third to Fqurth-ftreet,
Ca No'tlray or horse to Aand within ten feet of
FOR tUCICNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north'fide ffom Fourth to Fifth
between Chefnut and Walnut
Areets, weft.
llranch-itrect, north fide, bet wen Third and
Fourth Areets.
.July 14. *iw&fim
A Literary Treat. .
JuJl puMiJhei!, handfonujy prinuJ on luriting
paper, price I dollar,
A 'new edition of that popular anj entertalir.iiig
■work, entitled
'"P'HE FORESTERS, an Arr.:'r c* . Talc ; being
L a sequel to the hiftery of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding toreceut political
tranfa&ions in Ameiica.
Thu following extradl from the Clavis AUei;orica,
Iliews the principal'clfaraiters are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of EnglaC*
Hi-. Mother, theClurchof iingLrti
His Wife, the Pa-liaraert
I lis Sifter Peg, the' Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick. Ireland 1
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
H.is Mistress, the Old Conllitution
His «fw Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Ferefters, the United States of Amenta
Rohert Lumber, New-Hamplhire
John Codline, Massachusetts
Humphrey Plowshare, Coimeilicut
Roger Carrier, Rhode I (land
Peter Bull Prog, New-York
Julius Caesar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
CaQimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
Hit Grandson, Georgp Wajhington
Peter Pitch, Worth Carolii.i
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
George Tkillv, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife. Kentucky
Blaek Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speeulators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
$5" This popular and entertaining Catiricalhifto
ry of Amariea is attributed to the Rev. Dr. B*l
kn ap. It hasagraat (hare of originality and a
bo*nds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and charaderifes those
late political tranfatftions which have caused so
much üßeafinefs in Amvica.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Secorid Street, and No. J'e>, Marke' ft Met.
June»6. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latefl London and Dublin Editions.
H. Sff jP. RICE, Bookfellerx,
No. 16, South Second, and No. jo. Market street,
HAVE jull received by the late arrivals from
London and Dubfin, their fpriag importa
tion, confiftingaf a variety of thelateft and mot
approved Law Books, whieh, adde4 to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive collection ev
er ofleredfor faleia this country. Th«y tlieiefore
beg leave to notiy, that from the nature of their
conneSionsin DnWin, they are enabled to felllrilh
editions (asth«y have hitherto at the very
*loweft prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 vo'.s.
Peake's Cases at Nin Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time ofLord Hardwicke j Floyer's Pro&er.s
PraSice in the Eoclefiaftieal Courts; Barton's
Treatif« on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Praiftiee of
the Soart of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 1* vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice wpeft »• receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Dufnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's I,aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
Jnne t6.
rhe HiftOr/ of Pennfylvania^
By ROBERT PROUD, ,
IS now in the press, »nd will be pUblifh'ei,
with all convenient expedition, by Z.'-CH A
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philndelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, ami at the Philsdelphli Library,
according to tb? printed propcfals, wntll the
work is ready for the fubft;ribcr«.
July 18. aawtf
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN Of Company,
is diflolved by mutual confeot. All persons
having any demands against the said Honfe are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to rhtHoufe are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will infuf.ure be
*irried on,at hit Store, Ho. 39,S«uth Front-Areet.
Auqujl 7. eod^w
Richard and James Potter
HAVF. removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrect.
August z. w&fSt
Lancaster, Harrijburgh • Carlijle,
Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requrfted to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has fir some time sub
sisted betweon Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now diffolvcd: bst, not as M.
Slvugh infiuaatesto the public without Jull cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jc<£t from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the aoth
December last. a recital of whieh is not now deem
ed' necetfary. Auy gentlcmaa who wilhes to be.
more circum[lnitially informed of the merits of
this bufiiiefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal sfM. Slough's letter, and then can !><)
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiable in attaching hlm
felf to aoy other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance front Philadelphia to Sbippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Seer, in conjunction with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert. .
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, aqd every appurtenance to
tender the paflage life and commodious,;inform
those wno \|fifl> to patronize and encourage, the,
undertaking, that they can take their feats Ai
George Weed's, the ftgn of the White Horse,
Market Ssref*, Philadelphia, on evory Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
; Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftalililhed.
For the further accommodation oi the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel F.lder, m Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every ThurMay,
and return from thcoce and arrive at Harrifburjr
every Saturday, for that passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed o» Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
. Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797-
iN'. R. Thh Line of Stages starts from ths
house of William Ferr»c, in Lancaster, on every
Tucfday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in every Wednes
day morning, on fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns,
from thenci on every performing the
fsipe rovtins daily as in its tour trom Philadel
phia. taw/
Ach'ertifement.
On tlie.iQth of November next in Alexandria
(being court day), will be exposed fat fide one
or more covering Jacks, and several young
one? of different ages and fsics ; all defcendea
from RnyjJt Gift (an import: d Jack fWina Spain,
upwards of 15 hands high) out of imported
Jinnies from Malta>ftlli 14 hands high.
The terms of sale (or if not fold, of letting
them for one or more seasons to cover) will
then be m.\<f* kfcown : the payments may be
made easy to the pflfihifcr, bond and feourtty
facing given for the amount, with ir.terefl.
I At the fame time and place, furnlry
Horfcsand Mires w ill he- offered tor sale. The
latter having been to the Jacks, are probably
with ftsf!.
JAMES ANDERSON, Maugcr.
onnt-Vernon, 413 th >
September, 1797. ) law4w
Insurance Company of the State
of Pennsylvania.
rHE Office will b« kept until further notice at
the School House in Germantown. The
Company dill retain the room in Chefnut, above
Seventh street, where a pirfon will attend to re
ceive and give anl'wers to applications, every day
from 10 until 1 o'clock.
Sept 13. datqywtf
Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their cußomers aad the public, they
have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmingtoij : Also, they hive their (lore open in
the eity. At either place their friends can be sup
plied, and their orders carefully attended to
By the Cumberland, from Hnll, they have re
ceived a handsome aflertroent of articles, suitable
to the approaching season ; and ejpeft to add to it
by other fall Ihips.
Should the sickness prevail in tha central part of
the city, that branch of their bufintfs will be re
moved to Germantown.
*0" The communication by port is open and re
gular as ufaal.
Sept. 18..- thff
TO BE SOLD. VERT CHEAP!
A 1- ight W A OGON almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (Er.glilh collars) has never
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse t6 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 310.
Enquire No. 331, Marktt-ftreet
Augult 14. diw
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
At.valunble Lot of Ground }
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Filth ftreet#, fronting the State*
House fijuare. This lot is fifty-6ne feet front
on Walnut street, and ofte hundred and thirteen
feet and au half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houfei, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saffafras
streets, containing in frost on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to ike
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable fit na
tion for a merchant, flour fa<3or,*r others who
may have occnfion for storage of • goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for caflj. For further information apply to the
printer.
July it. m&wtf
t"Fbl s oTTd,
And pojfcjjion given immediately,
A LARGE two story brick Hoofe,(jandfomely
situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back_buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pomp
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
Sails in the two stables for 17 horses. The heal
thiness and plcafantnefi ot its situation, and the
number of genteel and agfcseable families in and
near the town, render it a deftrable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The comtnodioufnefs ol
th<( house, its central position, and the largenofs of
the/ÜbJes, make it t everyway fuitablefora tavern, for
which U has always been confiderd as a cspittl
llaad. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Prlnceaon, Ang. 25. 19 —dtwtaa tf
City of YVafhingtorc.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent otwcllirig-houfe *O,OOO dollars,
Sc. calk 30,000, arc 50,000
. 1 ditto 15,000 & cask 35,000 40,000
1 d'tto 15,000 & calh 15,000 ,■ 30,000
t ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,0011 & iafh 5,000 io.ooo
1 ditto 5,000 k cafl; 5,000 10,^00
,1 calh prize of to,ooo
» do. 5,000 aach,are » 10,000
le <i<*. 1,000 - • 10,00 c
a® do. joo - - io,coo
eo do. 100 - ' - 10,000
aoo do. 'SO - - 10,000
400 do. if - - la,ooo
1,000 do. 10 - io,cino
ij»ooo do. , 10 - 159,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,361 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Bollars, 400,00#
N. B. Tofivour tKofe who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prise of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but OKI :
And approved notes, fecu»ing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will
be reecived for anynember not tick
ets.
This Lottery will aSord an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ertfled in the City of
Wafhingion—Two beautiful defiges are alrcady
feledcd for the entire fronts on two of the public
fquaris; frotn theft drawisgsit ispropoftd toerefl
centre and r oti reenter buildings, as soon aspof
fible after this lottery UfoltH and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, p
the manner defcribei in the fchemc for the Hotel
| Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the ncceffary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the furplas will be made a part cf
the fund intended for the National University, to
; be erected within tha city of V r aCiingtou.
rhc real fecuritiesgiven ior the payment of the
Priaes, are held by ti>e President and two Diredl-
Ofs of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ot the lattery.
S/iWEL BLOiIGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colism
' hn ; cf James Weft & Co. Baltimore j of Veter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond 1
?and of Rishard V>'»li%. Cooper's Fwry.
' mwf
This Day Published,
And t« be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, 4amir of
Second and Chefnut ftrecti.
Price of a Duller,
Ohfcrvations on certain Documents
Contained ia No. V and VI of
" The H i story of the United States for
the year 1796,"
InwhiA the charhf. of speculation agiainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secret,-!** of t!ie Tusasurv, is CULLY
REI'UTED.
, . irRtTTF.)N BT UIMSEIF.
This publication prcfetits a coucife statement
of the baft means praftife'd by the Jacobins of the
United States to afpirfe the characters of those
persons confidi-red as hostile to their difoN
ganiziiij; fclljmes. It also contains the cor
refpandence between Mr. Hamilton and Mcflrs.
Monroe, Muh'enburgn and Venab'e, on tlie fub
jedloF the documents alorefaid,,and a ftries of let
ters from James Reynolds ahd his wife to Mr.Ka
miltoh, proving beyond thepoftifiility of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraay o» the part
of the latter and his associates to extort motley.
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholefaie-purchafers, for
cash. Orders to be adtartffed to Mr Yobng.
Augufl 25.
No. 188.
DiJlriS of Pennsylvania, to wit :
.. s , |»E if REMEMBERED, that on the
JLJ twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, JonW Fenno, of the said disc
tri6t,hath depofitedin this office thetitle of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit: —
" Obfcrvafions on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in which tha charge
" of speculation, againll Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treaftiry, is fully refuted—
<• Written, by himfclf,"
In conformity to the ail of the Congress of the
Ucited States, entitulcd, "An aif for the encour
agement of learning, by fccuring the copies of
maps, charts and books »o thit authors am? propri
etors of fucheopics, during'he times therein men
tioned.",
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk 9/ the Vijirid of Penefylvania.
July . \V4\r
The Inhabitants of the Diftridt
of Southwark,
A RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to h$
Z*2i. kept at the Constables* ofliee, the north east
earner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick psrfons who desire to be re
moved lo the City Hospital, arc reqtreflcd to make
application—Also, a Hcarfe vyill be kept in readt
nefs for the removal el the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.— The Poor, who wife to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnifhed with,orders
by applying as above. Aug. 19
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S GFFISE
No. 64 south Second-*.reet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No, 11, which
commenced drawing the 19th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rite in propor
tion as the drawing advanees, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes at
four thousand dollars each, 011 the kit day ot
dr mring.
Ctieek Books kept for examination and register
ing. in the Canal, No.», City of Washington.No.
a, and Patcrfufi Lotteries. ,
Also, tickets for sale ia the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing ia the course cf the fammer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Steek,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &e- fee. tranfa&sd with the
utmost attention.
June 1 *l. ttjief
Erfkinc's Vievr of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBEjIT C.\MFBELL & Co.
No 40 Son'.h Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes otid Con/equen
ces of the present War with Frame.
By the Honorable Thomai ErskiNe.
May I j ' £
" "STATE TRIAL&
Bold b W. Yookc, Bookfcller, No. sa, South Ss
cond-ftreet,
The PenHfylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impcaohment, trial, and acqtiit
al of FranciiHopkinfoTi, Judge of the Oourt of
Admiralty, and John NichoKon, Compfcroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aflforrmentof
Alfo, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege;VeH aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
nxpOTted. July 7—*
For SaLe,
That luel!known place, called Vand'OHift's
F r r r y,
ON Nelhaminy crtdt, 18 miles from Phila
ladelphi*, on the Kew York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 peralfes. Upon the
premifics are a large two story ftane house occu
pied as atvern, and a good one story ftoiie kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threfKinp
floor, and l'ome out buildings—also a well of
good water, and ah excalleiit ke House. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelhatft
iny to it* jtinilion wiih the Delawa«e, <md thence
iacrofs to the Jersey shore. h has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
Forterms to the SnWcrib«r,
i.IORDECAI LEWIS.
Vsy 24. jtawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGK w-ith m»ch pleaf
urealld refpefl, retiirns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the libera! encourageroest
she has received during foiir- years j-clklenee if)
Philadelphia ; and alTures her friends and the
public, lo far from interning, to decide her
school, (he has'tnade a fupiriorarrangei.it t for
the more convenient accommodation of hri
scholars. branch of iWnl and poUte
atiemUd to by .Mrs.
Groopibriagc and, masters exaelling in their
rtfpeifli v« profefli ons.
Corner of Sprufi and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- flniftf
The fituaticji is perfeil'y liealtky ; artdmade
more agreeablehy an extenftvs gasden and lot
of ground adjoining the houle.
, fit ft Publijhed,
And to be had of Mfiffre. Dofefon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in t'ie
city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
tfy BENJAMIN S.Vlli W BARTON, m. d.
June ae.
Rofs & Sititfan,
FOR SAIiE—«
C Hogflieads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C. Bawels,
A Imsll pared of nice cocoa in hags
1 few p-ufcftconi Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Tererifiee wine, old ar.-.! in Madeira pipe#
An invoice of jewellery and hoSery to be, fold lay
thcf aclcage
A few hampers ol best Enjilh cheese.
T"ly 17- dtf.
The Subfcriter has for Sale,
A large aflortment of India Muslins,
coarfc arid fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Rpmalls
Bsue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of IrifivLinens and Sheetings, we#
aflorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Uaibrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, chaining Nutmeg*,
Mace aid Cloves
Black Pepper of firft ..quality
Kail India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wing
Ditto of Gia
Roll Brinjftojje
Mordecai Lewis.
Aurud T2. savritn
Biggins' Specific
FOR TH3
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
EVKR fiuce th'tf disease rar.de'fucll ravagesin this
i city and N«w-York, the autho# has! torusd his
attention to its causes a»d cure.—The re'ult of his
enquiries has convinced him that thj reafbn why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are frem its
not being well under flood, aad the cocfsquent
wrong method taken tq cure it He is perfuadcd
fliat theexcelfive bleedigns And rocrcurisl reatmeat
of the Faculty i- highly injurious, and tbac the on
ly rational node of treatment is by the use of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his ;ifc as a
certain remedy, if ufcd according to the directions;
To be had in bottles, at one dollar eacl;, ps the
inventor Geo. , Cherry flrect.tWQ doorsa
bove Ninth ftrcet, (law manager of Jacks s and
Co'sMedicine Warehouse, London): by [?■ L.'-
tlanf, No. v 6 ; IV. Griffith, No. 177, T. l',a.
41, South Third street, T. Stiff, No. jj, New (tract,
near Vine street, and J. Sales, No. 36,Ra0 ftre&t.
Aug. ij. tatht \jt
_. . 1
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, aod
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jtift received, by W». Griffiths,No.l7f,l>outh
Second-street, a frelh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the lete Sir John Hili
(whe knowledge as aEotanift procured him
the appellation ef the Linnaus of Britain) and ie
•onfidered in England as a urtain eyre for the above
complaints; it is alfp of lingular efiicaey in the
Hooping Cough,
It may alfe be had retail of W. A. Stores, No.
61, South Socond-ftrpet, andT. Stiff, sj;, Ncw
ftreet, is bottles at JS cent* each.
W*. Griffiths having observed the happy efr.
fefi of the medicine, (fcvtral cases of cures haw
ing come within his own knowledge) and the grea*
demand ,for it has induced him to order a largis
supply, a part of wliieh he has just received.
3- Vi v.'7%v
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Satusday last, tw« indebted Ser
vants, GiSford Dally, a mulatto boy,jabonti7
years of age, a Aim light boOt a&ive feljow, can
read and write,fire feet seven or eight inches high,
hasaheavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
uad trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine /hoes &e.
Allan Heltons, a black man, about 14 years <>!
age, five fo*t Petal <Weight ißehes high,a thick set
? elniafy/huilt ftllew, particularly aboutthl breech;
' hat For a sailor's blue jade ft lined with fwaaftin,
dark firiperf vest, fuftian crcrwfers, high crowned
hat, ccarfe ihocs, &c..; each, of them haij feverU
ftirts and Cwreral other elerathes with, tlteni. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways. or rj dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, oa delivering
thorn at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a yew from lewis
Town, in the County of SuJfcx, state of Dela
ware, andhai taken the boy with him.
July 31. mtfj&t i w
~To be SOLD or RENTED~
A LARGE 3 Story Brick Haufq, on th#
South fide of Filbert Hreet. betwee#
Eighth ind Ninth, lately ocoupitd ai; the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building ii fee* front and 3,s.fe« desp,
tht lot 110 feet deep, with the privllegl; of a nine
feet wide Alley exttndiug the wholq length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The House is net plaftired, and
may/lia turned either into one, Or twi> dwelling
Hojifes. It 16 suitable for a large Maj-.ufaiilory,
or would make a good T*v<r».
pofieffiou will be givm.
Apply to Ko. 111, Chcfnut-Str«et.
Aug. nr. cr>d4t.
Muftcal Injlrument Manufa(iory y
Nth 167, Arch-Strtet.
HARPER, harpsichord,grand, portable grand,
fid>board,pier table and fquari- piano fcrr<e
maker from London, returns thanks to Ids friends
and tile public, for then libetal encourasenient,
andhopesthat by hisaffiruity and afenticn torv
■cry brarch of his bufinrfy, toir.erlt acoutinuar
of their favors. Piano sorts s made on »he
and mod approved plans, with pedals, pattstj
fwcll, atid French harp flop, which lie flatteia
himfelf will ue found cn trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not fupcricr te an;,' import
ed, a«d t.wcuty per cent cheaper. Any inflru
mtnt purchased liim, if tot approved of ia
twelve months, he will exchange.
N.B. All kinds of Musical inftrumcr!t.s made,
uncd, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the rnoft reafojiabie terßis, !<,*
ready money only.
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in etchapge.
May v.. &im .
Forty Dollars Reward..
J) AN away from the fubferiber oh the fre
lv qnddayof this init. July, a Mulatto Man,
|i J tried Will Bowzerj about forty years of age,
five feet seven Or etgkt inches high, rather
chunky made ; had on when hs went away, a
drab col/ired cloth coat, Itriped purple trowfer»
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as hetock a number with him. The
rani fellow formerly belonged, to Mr. CBarlcs
Blake of this place; and ii is expelled he has
made Jones'? Neck, in the Delaware
"State.—Any perlrn. apprehending the (aid fel
low, aud securing him so that l ean get him a
gain, (hall receive the above reward if taken
out ps the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
homt>
JESSE REED,
Queen Ana's County, Maryland.
•July 3. W3t