* <x«nitt« g»tatts, «. Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number' 575.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales j,'
For DR r G00S) s .
r Forenoon— Edward Fox, Nq. s 6,
iW/cW ,/ o,,th Fronf-ftreet,
) Afternoon—Footman & Co. Na. 6;
(_ Snath Front-itreet.
f Forenoon—John Oonnrfhr, Old City
TitrUatJ Auction 1 , No. 73 fotfh Frbnt-ftreet.
1 Afternoon— William Shannon, No.
C 'B3 High-street. |
Ke4sefd*v f A^rr^oon— Peter ilenfon, No. 74
' f south Third-ftrcet.
Thurfdfl, \ r ™<nodh—Edward Fox.
C Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday I forenoon—Will •311} Shannon.
5 Afrernoog—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
tor Hamburgh,
jC~3ri The good Brig
|||||h Suke'Y,
tf aac Master,
"STOW lying at Clifford's wharf, in complete
-i-> order to take in a cargo, and will receiv. '
freight on low terms.
to apply to GEORGE DOHSON,
N°- 2 ! Third-street.
' B A few " /passengers can be accommodat
ed, if speedy application is made.
_ Sept. is q j
HAVANNA SUGARS^
FOR SALE,
5400 boxes and calks prime white Havan
' na SUGARS,
On board the (hip fiamburgh Picket, Silas ;
S "am, Matter, now lying at Marcus Hook. '
Tor terms, apply to Capt. Swiin, on board, to 1
Capt Samuil Smith, in Front, near Wal- '
nut street, or to <
Philip Nici/in, iff Co.
Who °ff<y the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
-^-*W£rFor SALE or CHARTER. ,
She is 310 font rrgifter, coppered to the bends, *
fails remarkab'y faft, and cm be ready to/e-
ceive a cargo in a few days.
• Sept daw . d
Antigua Rum, -
arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.tlive, William Williams, Matter,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof.
And for Sale by
Jehu HoUingfworth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept. 11. dtf "
B. The above Brig,
the bri ß GAYOSO, are 1
a "° for ; S,le or Charter, and
«eJgßfiidC--novv ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington ' Apply a» shove.
For Savannah,
The /aft failing (hip, ol
SWIFT PACKET, P "
'^J^2^ p ATR |C, t Griebin, Mafler, f°
, Now lying opjiofite th; mouth M
of rrankford Creek, has handl'ome accommoda- je<
Hons for passengers, and will fail on or about t«i
the ift »t o<fl™ber. mi
For freight or paffge apply to the matter on [hl
board, or of the fublcnbtrs at Fr»nkford, c t . a w
miles from Philadelphia. of
Nalbro J. Fra zier. „•
Frankford, Sept. 18. dtiftO. rA '
For HAMBURGH, ~~ __
J r | 'HE Cooper Bottomed Ship
FAVORITE, John
' hompson, Mlfter, now at
Br 'S f,t '' wharf, and will be rea- ( L .
■ dy to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargo being engaged V 1
and ruHy to go on board. The (hip is so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She l [ U
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas- ' "
sage, please to apply ? t Mr. Jeremiah Warder's W ?,
ComptingHoufe, No. u, North Third street, „ ;
•r to the Mailer on bord. „
August jo. „ '
For SALE, v - s
On board the laid Ship, Swedish Iron, aflorted " v
pollowand Windcw Glifs, Demyjohrrs, Wrap- 11
ping Paper f.->r Sugar Kefiners, Rugs of I& 2 Uc '
Quality. Please to «pply as above. a £ cl
_ ma i
TO BEHOLD,— Z
And pojjejjion given immediately,
ALARGfc two lfcry brick Hoafe.handfomely
lituated ii) Princeton. There are tour rooms Ji
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. Thcre'is a pump H
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen gartien, at the that
farther end of which are a caniage house and two
(tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with ®
flails in the two (tables for 27 horses. The heal- doli
thinefs and pleasantness of its situation, and the Ft
number of genteel and agreeable families in and have
n«ar the town, reader it a xltfirable retretjat for a W 'H
gentleman from the city, lhe commodioufnefs of ada
the house, its central position, and the largeness of y
the stables, make it|cvery way fuitableforatavern,for * m ]
which it has always been confiderd as a capital A
stand. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN. M ,
Princeton, Aqg. 25. 29—dtw2awff f? ''
NOTICE. Gnu
IF Theov o'H<ira, whofome years fincekept Rou
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eaf- Brov
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re- Chet
minded to call on, or write to, the Rtv. Ambrose Tick
Marftal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern Ozm
Shore, Mary-land, from whom he will receive in- Whi
tereJVing information. Diac
Augufl 4. mw&f4w B rov
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP ! Umh
A Light W. 4 GGON almost new, with a frame— !^' ! ' r i
and a pair of harness (Eriglilh collars) has never ®' icl
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, v. ith a falling top and hamefs— 320. J u
. Enquire No. 331, Market-llrcet
Angurt 24. diw
WANTED
Bills on /mderdain, at a fight not exceeding fix- ' I'l
ty days, and with approved Indorfers, to the amount J
■jf two hundred thousand guilders—for which ca(h dollar
■will be paid at the rate of thirty eight cents a gtiil
der—Applications to be made to George Simpfon,
Esq. Calhier of the IJank of the United States.
Sept. 14. dtf J u h
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY JEVENiNG, SEPTEMBER 1 6 . „ot"
*ni> q un • '' ~~~ » ' \
The Partnership,
I T ND! r.^ t 1 he J firm of Company,
>. y isddTolved by mutual corfent. Alt persons
living any demands again* the said House are de
• S6, [I"? tU /,! nd r " Jl , e iamC WT-B. Freeman 5 and
thofd indebted to the House a.rc dcfired to make pay
'o 6t mmt \° " :r ''T ßy whc m bcf,nt ' <B wi!' in future be
earned ou.at hu.Store, No. 39, South Front-llreet.
City *" fl 1 : «"<4w
w Young HyJon ! ea.
i4O chcits a Cuperior quality- A,lfo,
100 do.of Hyloi>,
Imported in the tt'eadrob Sims, and for sale bv
' l „ he luhfcnber, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June 21. Mtf
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South.
Front-street.
Hyfsn
Hyson Skin vrF \Q
Young Hyson ( S
' Impeoid j
alete , April 20. * eot f
elTe The Norfolk Mail STAGii. >
■f, 'X'HIS Stage ftatgr, from the GEORGE Tavern,
:t. at corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
dat- , < very Tut/Jay, Tbur/Jay', and SaiUr
day, at 30 clock, in the Doming; arrives at Ho- !
r j ver the tirft day, at Snowhiil the second day, at j
i_ , Northampton g->urt House the third day, and #ll
tip morning ol the fourth day tl e paflengi rs find
a lift and «omfortable packet to convey thsai to 1
Norfolk. .
A packet Ifives PCorfolkfor Northampton feiry,
every 1 uefday, i hurliay and .Saturday, and the
131 Stage ltarts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
ok. Monday, Wcdnelday and Friday ;;puts up at Snow
,to Hill thefirft night, at Dover the 2d night, and ar- /
al- rives in Philadelphia iu the evening of the third
day.
rhediftance on this route, between Philadelphia ,
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road, !
R. wh " h is excellent indeed. The proprietors j
CDgage to return the whole fare to any
' passenger, who, after having performed this route,
Will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
_ , August 11. dim. eotf.
ire This Day Published,
he Andtobefoldby WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of w
Second and Chefnut streets, th
if Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar, , ec
' Observations on certain Documents n<
Contained in No. V and VI of _
" The History of the United States for
. ~ . , the y ear *79<5," . (
re In which the cll or speculation against
ld ALEXANDER HAMILTON, h . a
Late SiciiT.tsr of the Txiasukt, is FULLY
REFUTED. nc
... w *'f V N Br musEir. ™
I hit publication presents a coneile flatement or
of the base means pradlifed by the Jacobin, of the Q f
United tit.ten to asperse the characters of xhofc
, perlons who are considered as hostile to their difor- _
gamzing schemes. It also contains the cor
r, rerpondente between Mr. Hamilton and Mi*,,
h Monroe, Muhltpburgh and Venable, on the fub
a- jeS ot the documents atorefaid, and a series of let
it ten trom James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha- |
niilton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt, , ,
n that the connection between him and Reynolds, .
1 i L a faring confpira.y on the part tu ! s
of the latteo and his alTociates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price ° r
1,1 bc madc "> ot wholcfaie purchaf rs, lor C ° n
- eAS ,"- ° rdc "to beaddreffed t# Mr Yo»no.
■A ugult 25. . *Ol
J " ~~ No. 188. : ~
t Difiria of Pennsylvania, to iv'rt
- (••• 0 ) R E 1T that on the
> t , twc '"y filth day J.f July, i„ ,h c twen
j ty second year of the independence of th; United
1 • a l t, . of Ameri ", John F.nno, of the said dif
. t J' l deposited in thisoffice the title ofabook;
. e whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
" O. fervations on certain documents contained
' « m No. V. and VI. of '< The HilWy of the Unit
ed Mates for the year 1796," in which the charge
of speculation, againlt Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf ."
In conformity to the a£ of the Coogrifs-of ths
Uc.ted States, entituled, « A» i£t for the encour
agement of learning, by fccuring the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors anrf propri- jr or
• etors of iuch copies, during th» times therein men
tioned.
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dijlrifl of Pennfylva*!*. T
J"' v *7- , " w 4 w . vey
'Mrs. GkAT TA N dail >
INFORMS her friends,and the public 111 general, '
that her house, No. 191, Market-street, will con- ,
tinue open during the fickneft. '
Board and Lodging in a separate room, ten " f
dollars, in a double room, eic.ht dollars. j
For the convenience of-thofe gentlemtn who C r
have not their 'ami lies'in town, Mrs. Srattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar T<
* da y* Augujt it) —6t tilled
Imported in the latest arrivals from *,!fs°
Anifterdam and Hamburg, and for file by in lei
B. y J. Bohlen, 1 ccnce
A large assortment of fine French Cambist, t ], e f
Ruflia indDutchl'ailcloth crs le
G r ittannia> Writing, pdft, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland DutA calf (kins
Checks and stripes Prime madder (
Ticklenburgt Shell'd Barlcv Germ
Oznahurgs Lookingglaffies
V> hite (heetings Hollow glafe ware
Diaper .Slates Iu thli
Ilrown rolls CofFee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Black and uhitelacej in boxes
Bed Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
J ul T *4. m&thtf
Cedar Shingles.
' — Alg
THE fuSfcriher has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar ~JX}
Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars p«r thousand.
William Hallowell, A ]
Nt. 19J North Ti-rdfireet. the Ol
J u 'y 2 7- eoi2t 119, C
By JOf IN Fen NO, N° i\ 9 Cbefnut Street.
CUSTOM-HOUSE.
lr ! Dy ' „ Philadelphia, Sept. i, r»n r
re de-' in v' E Mer E, h , aut » wLo at ,his time prefer hav
. 1 tJr vefil l, and Merchandize eutered and
Lav k Cet ! at Chef:fr or Marc »« Hoc!,. J-are W
ire be r'' no '^" d ' J ' hat !n c ° !l, P'' a nre with their de
ttreek ,;m' f" d "P on * tu " conv ' a orl that the measure
will be mutually benehcial to them and to the
United States. The collector of the chftoms has
made arrangements to eftahlilh for some time
.branches of the cunom-houfe at thede places,
» Where every accommodation in his power will
£ lven to 'he merchants.
Pine ~ TO BE SOLD, ~ 7
And immediate poffefjlon given,
A Conve nient well (inidicd Brick Tenement
►tf "7 T". Wlth a c P°h house and other out house.-. fitu
_ atcd in a plcafant part of the borough of Wilming
ton m the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
° Uth - *1 M y . ; front on W and extends
erS n M qUar ? t0 Pa « ur "» «Wc£ is
erected a (lable and carriajrc honfe.
u „, . ALLEN M'LANE.
W ilmington, Aug. 50.
Lately Published,
- 8 vo ' ( ' >rice one dollar ' n hoards) fold
rn, . YOUNG, corner of Second and
ern Che/nu' ftr-ets,
~in _ Colle&ion of Papers on the fubjetS of
*•"" :f; us Feverj, prevalent in the United I
l>o- ' otates for a few years past.
, at Compiled/,, NOAH IfFBSTF.R, jun
c j - Containing letters from Dofiors Seaman, Smith.
"Id Bnel, ] aylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
uto ell,on contagion, &c. &c.
iry, ~ :
the City Commijfioners Office,
tNI ' r August 29, 1?97 .
ar . IN pw fuance of an Ordinance of the SeleCl and
; rd Co " lnion Councils, passed the 22d day of May last.
Prooofal. in writing will he received hy the City
hia • c< "° Tri '" ioner6 for one month from the id of Scp
utc teniber nfxt > f( "" letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firfi day of January next, the
ad ' , V " S public property of the city— ,
wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on SafTafi-as
,J Mulberry,
m ' And Higfi Streets,
Chefnut and UMtiut Streets,»raw Bridge, with
ths Scale and Filh Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar' f
streets. , L
The cellar under the Oity-Hall. o
•T he i. V Vrrn at she n " ddle fcrr y on Schuylkill, j,
of with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much f.
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings erefl- r
ed for the use of the Colledor of the Tolls, or be
r necclTary for the toll-gates.)
Ang ' 3 3tawim. "
>r LOS T, ' p<
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Ball 111
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass ™
barrel and silver Gght ;on the plate of the butt are 1
Y thli ktfcrs " Jamaica, 99"—and on the barrel 01
near the lock '• London" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will.return the aid piece to John Bernard,
at the sign of the Blue Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, ihali receive a reward
' e of Four French Crowns.
» Sept. u. , 3t -
L" ON CARRIAGES." In
Notice is hereby Given,
agreeably to an afl of Congress ef the
United States of America, passed at Phila- ho
delphia, the »Bth day of May, 1796 ; laying du - mi
t (,n Carriages for the conveyance of persons, mt
whi«h (hall be kept by or for any person, for his mi
c or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the be
conveyance of passengers, the several duties and hei
rates following, to wit;
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols. no
upoa every Chariot, 1 i dols, r
upon every Port Chariot, H dolt. J
upon every Post Chaife.iu do],. ™
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols. . ,
' upon every Coachee, 9 dols. <u "'
upon other Carriages, having panpel work J
above, with blinds, glaffcs or curtaWii,
> 9 dols.
uponjsur wheeled CarriajeK, having fra- v
med pods and top« with (leel springs, 6 cei .
dols. .
upon four wheeled Carnages, with wood
en.<T iron fprinjs or jacks, 3 adit.
IRion Curricles with top«, 5 dol«. (
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols. I
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with (leel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dels.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having /
framed posts and tops, and railing up- f ,
on wooden spars, a dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur- t ' le
vey of the Di(lri6t of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily,_until the 30th day of September n'stt, for nl r;
the purpose of receiving the duties 011 Carriages, at ,uc h
Germantown ;at the house of Daniel St. Ciair.Efq. here
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house w 'tk
of James Ch;:pt»an,F.fq. in the County of Bucks; elair
of which all persons poifeffed of fucS Carriages are any
desired to take notice. aftet
Notice is also given, be e
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dii*- I *'
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant- ~ ,
«d to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi- " . .
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or '
in less quantities than thirty'gallons— and one li- ,locl
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
ritttous liquors in less quantities than lo gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised tq grant such licence?.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeflor of the Revenue ef the firll fur.
vey of tfPe of Pennsylvania.
Office ot Infpedlion at, 7
Germantow, lath Sept. i79 jr. _j I,n
{MPO RT E D ~ And
In the (hip America, James ruafter, from
Hamburgh, Nc
Brown Hollands 1-0
White Piatillas All
Ticklenbwrgs
Coa»fe Linens
Tapes
Looking Glades 7 ande
Glass Tumblers j "** 2 '
' rou SALE BV ' 3-
George Pennock. ' q^ e
14. ...• 33W as |'a
Act lavng Duties on Stamped Vellum, 5•
Parchment and Paper. of '
' —* Tn M*
A FEW copies of the above afl may be had at of *1
the Office of the Gazette of the Ueited States, No
119, Chefnut-flreet. J«a!y 1 At
i o be Sold at Public Vendue,
■IrL O N > F r id ? y . the 29th inflant ' P'-eclfely at three
, " , o fn ' n thc af "'ernoori, at the sign of the
iJa no king of I rliffia-, near the market hoiife in Grr
e; '. C ' EYS* 7'? f '"° ry stone dwelling houfe,barn
tir .te- and liable and lot of » acres :q 16 perches of
leafure ground, part of which is an orchard of excellent
to the fruit trees, fitnate near the middle of German
im\ town ' on the north east fide of the main street
le time or road, containing in front on the said Arret
places, or road t 49 f ee , nine inches; bounded bv ground
erwill ofDr.Brttw, and olher , anf) op - n * B to she
diw, mefiTuage and lot of Melchior Ming, The above
lfrt is good tlover meadow, and has a never
ai.ing stream of water running through it.
fitu' r n f rT tU ° acrds - on the south east
imkl Si* of Mill road,commonly called
rrountl ' ? r ' le » Germantown townftip, !
it ends fj , , an "' of 2 7° from the south weft
Weil is I , 0 j th ? Germantown main street; bounded
by lands of Conrad Carpenter, James Ogjeby, "
E J 4c °oft-eont, and Melchior Ming. The above
|o,ts high and pleasantly situated, command
c" u a P ro^P Germantown and the
Schuylkill and Wiflahircon hills, and are well (
«)fo]d a . a P ted for gentlemen's country feats. The t
id and 13 '°ts are now in.clover, and there are on the £
ame upwards of zajs grafted fruit-trees. 1
e<!t of A S®od and title, clear of all Ki
nked I ™ m krances, will be given to the purchaser f
twenty days after the Tale, upon the payment 11
o one half of the purchase money, and fe uring ''
mith, ' C ot . . ha 'f mortgage upon the purchaied P
litch P rem ' r « s -
Poffi-ffion of the firft described lot and premi
ft 'es may be had on the 17th April next, and im-
mediate pofieflion tniy be Jiad of the three last
mentioned lots.
7. A n y P'rfon, wishing to view the i;re
-1 and ""["•> ,lla y f" the fame by applying Benj. ,
rlaft. r" e l f run >; ,n Germantown near the Market
City ho "''- EDiVARD FOX, Au&ioneer.
Sep- Germantown, nd Sept. 1797. dtS
r one 7 ' '
■ the Sundry Lots b
IN the following Squares in the City of Washing
ton wu! be exposed to Public Sals, by thelub- T
lCrlbcrs, on the second Monday in Oftober next,
at the Little Hotel, in the said City, to com
mence at ic o'clock :
cdir- 66 s r^- 43,4414 i> 48, 49 > 5 °- »• f .
66, 67,68,69, 70, 73,74,75, 76, 77, 78,79, 10 i, ta
Jo*,» o J. ,1 5,xi9,i»°,i4i,6»,56,84,i04, 87, ar
BS, 89, 1.41 n 4 , r» 5 , no, 6 r , t66, 80, IP j,
.* sq uare e »ft of square 87,fquare south of square 104, , e
„ square north of square Br, square east of square 88, c
square north of square 118. cc '
r ® I hefe Lots are advantageously situated in the e,e &
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem- c!jc
-1_ ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be an
peremptorily fold ; clear and valid titles will b« n
Ball made t0 the purchaser, on receipt of the purchase
rafs |" on< T- Terms of sale, are, gOod notes, negotiai f®'
are at e Bank of Columbia, one fourth part in er ,
rrel on .f one other fourth in three months, one
np. ? thel ! ourt ' l ' n ® ve months, and the remaining one Tc
3 rd ' ourt " ,n seven months.
ad, WILLIAM DEAKINS,jun. -*■ -
,rd URIAH SOUaEST. V
Sept. »i. d , *
- * —, - j ' ver
At the federal Blast Furnace, frol
.In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling trl
I Mills. ' Bth
SEYMOUR's Patent Rollers.
the THEIR superiority conji/lj in being freefrom
la- holes and bonej-combed places j <which are com
iu- monlr found in rollers cajl in sand, or elay Ex.
ns, moulds. Theft /intent rollers are cafl in iron c
his moulds, prevtoufiy heated, and <vuill be found to h
he be more denfi-, filid and durabltHhan any rollers S
nd heretofore used. Another important aJutmtnge mas
they , hai-e trVfr others, is, that the r.ecks require sea (
no turning, but are immeAaitely fit for ttje, and »*ce
front their accuracy, run niiilh left friSiatu and £ ' le
require iefs water to make them perform their or v.
work. They may be bad by Upplicatim to the eJ "
*' Patentee in Plymouth, of (len. Nathaniel Good
•win, or of MeJfrs.Thatcher and Hay ward. thcr
rk Boflo*, Ales- 31. ' c , cr "
i., Sept. 19. §', l.
Mr. L AI L S ON, fuffc
J W,TH a " intention to render service, and undc
ceive those Performers, who duringhis absence Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it on ft
would be wrong in l.im nut to inform those that ,ai> "
engaged, that it u withou. his approbation, and
that he will not be in any way answerable fpr 1 a »y I
Jayniond's engagements. cham
, PHILIPPE LAILSON. °* te
, r ' Alexandria, Sift. If, 6 t the (i
THE SUBSCRIBERS; otn ;
'• ASSIGNEES OF JAMES A '
t HERUUY give notice, that thev have dilpofed
of the property assigned to them for the securing the P
. the payment of the note', acceptances, ind er,- co:lv '
d dorfements givtn by Edward Fox, for the use " nd
r of the said James-«re*-nleaf; and the h ".Jers of " ! " a
t such notes, acceptances, and endorfemenis, zltv j Ja , e " t
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fattlr J?
e with them for the amount of their refpeilive t o'"bc
; claims, both principal and interest, at c ; an
e any time before the acth day of Oflober next; c ; an ' f
after which day, tfie holders not »pplying, will flii» 0
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of aflign- and c
-r-1- . and ®
Applications to be made at south-east corner to all ]
ot Dock and Second streets (the L)ock-ftreet at the
. fide), between the hours of eleven and one o' health
. elock every day, Sunday* excepted. 1 vessel
r - Henry Pratt, of per
Tho. W. Francis, ° n hcr
sr.
John AJhky, ( tkej
Jacob Paler. the tin
Philadelphia, Augu-ft 18, 1797. d tijentii
{cat ft:
Just pub]iflied,
And to he fold at the Bcokftores of H. £«f P. to
Hice, No. so, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod, „ if h
No. 41, Chefnut-flreet, and W. Young, rr dcct
i-orner of Chefnut and Second-streets, uch ca
An accurate System of Surveying; lorfeit
IW WHICH IS CONTAINED, 1
I. Decimal fradlions, in a plain, concise, evc^t
and easy manner. ( . L V
a. Theextraiflion of the square root. has Tec
3. Plain trigonometry, redlangular and cb- dire^lc(
um of
4. An exa>3t toetbod to cast up the eintents
of lands. • ,
J. Field 'feaiom
The whole beine perfovmed withovt the life ( ü bfcril
of scale arid cdVnjMlies,,on a table of logarithms. aS a r
fn which is given some accoust of the variation undort
of itc'needle, and tte causes ot its attraction.
By SAJWEL MOORE.
August *. lawjw July
womas Herman Leuffer,
'JfTtU I,orth r " th ftr#Ct ' COrner °f Noi-th alky, No. 34,
, L KAVFOR SALE,
e h-ni 1 rsd Bourdeaux Wine in cafesini
e,tiarn lj boxes, fix years old
3 Whi 'c Oraves Winein C£.flss
Lellent Ticfelcnburgs v
rnun- Russia Sail Cloths
Sreet Ravens Duck
rcet Bag- Linen
round Heffia'ns
to the . D «per and Table Clotk
above Empty bags
never Comoiofa German Cloth
r. n of bltcfc coloured Ribfcoa.
ntain- ,' De German Laces
h east £. bout ' wel . vc tOD » clesn Hemp
called
wtdow dia" fma " h ° le,< f ° r { r ly UfS
i weft ''UK 19 —Jaw
mded . , DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
Jeby, And fer sale h y 7HQ MAS DOBSON, at the
ibsve Stone House, No. 41, south Second fireet,
iand- EVENINGS at HOME •
' d r* °J\'. I HE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
XK onll >} ir! g of a variety of Miscellaneous Piec'. for
e the mftrudlion and azuufement of YOUNG PER
n the SONS Six Volumes Via.idfomely hrintedand bound
up ill two volumes, price Two Dollars.
" ', n ' , The variety and excellence of are
hafer 'uch, that the book neetft only to be known, to be
ment universally esteemed one of the mod valuable pub
iring "cations th t can be put into the hands of youne
haled P' s
" Delightful talk to reai 1 th? tender thought,
enii- teac h the young idea how to (hoot,
11111 - 0 P our th®. frefh initi'uci ion o'er the mind,
: last ?° breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
she genereus purpose in the glowing breast.*'
l;re- « Thomson.
iehj. - Au g u(t Riwl 4 w
irket THIS DiY IS PUBLISHED, : ~
:r. By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone Houf®,
tS No. 41. south Second flreet, ■>
Letters and Conversations,»
Between several Young Ladiet, ap improving and ia»
ling- terefting fubje&s.
sub- Translated from the Dutch of Madam, de Capiat
lext, with alterations and improvements,
018- ■Printed on fine paper, and neatly bound,
Price one dollar,
< 55. AMIDST thetide ofmodern Romances,painting
101, tales ef extraordinary distress, or of defperatc or
87, a " fu j villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
tO3, *" 1C « 1 't would be for the honor of young ladies to
[O4, |! e 'g»°rant of, this little book comas forward to fo
,gg ( licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, b-«auf«
the '''S"" l and natural dignity and importance of th* Ftmal,
em- L '' araa " is exhibited in an interefling point of view,
Ibe , and Patents examples of real and attainable excel
b« "nee.
lafe T he publiflier was fomuch pleafedwith the pern
tia' fal.tnathe wasperfuaded he fliould do a pleasing
in jervice to the community by fending it in o circu
one latlon - August 24 —mw4«
one To Mqjlers and Pilots bringing up Fejftls
f r °m Foreign Ports to this City.
TTTHereasfundry infringements have lately been
V V made on the laws of this Rate for the pro*
venting pestilential or infe&ious diseases, eithe*
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publiffi the following ex
fr.om the laws of 22d April, ,794, 7 th and
oth lection*.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
7'" *-> June 6th, 1704
Z f"p; °f "if sO / f cCar '"X tbe at y a "d port
. c f Philadelphia from the irttroduSior. of in,.
<■o lenttal and contagious diseases.
rs . Sect, 7. And be it further enafled, that «very
ge ™»aeror captain of any ftip or vessel coming from
■re sea actually employed n the coaflmg trade
-,d "cepted) and bound to aay port or place within
id fte jun'didhon of Pennlvharia.Jhaa cause his fti»
bc l"-o«ght t</ anchor,or othervvife flav
he u'V , of the riTcr Delaware, oppefu, L
6 e4fth "°® ce on Stat«-lflsnd aforefaid, and
there, to remain unul he lhall Have duly obtain«d .
certificate or bill of heal:h from the Rtfident Phy
iician. And it, previsufly to obtaining fucli certi
r Vfi hsaWi. any master or captain (hall
'? a FP roach ne artr than the
" e4 , lt '' otfic; to the city of Philadelphia, or
r# (hallland, caule orfuffcr to be landed, orbroutrht
it on (hore at any place or port within this CW
lt mjjnwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
ld intent ol"being conveyed into this Commonwealth
any pcrfon or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize. or, if after receiving such bill of health
o. certificate, he (ball negled or refufe to deliver
the (am-to the Health-Officer, such mailer or cap
- tain ihail forfeit aim py, f or tach and evc ' fu £
oh nee, the sum of five hundred dollars
r , A^ d „ tl , le ?l )tain or 'nailer of every {hip or Vef.
d , "lall fend a lafe and commodious boat to brine '
, the physician on board, and {hall in like manner
convey him back to the Hsalth-OHice, after he hat
e concluded his official examination ; And while he
f . u making such examination, <srin rase any fubfe
e quent exaniination by the Health Officer or Con-
Physician, agreeably to the diredHons of
t,.e jn iller or captain ftallcxpole or caulo >
to bc exposed to thefearch of the Resident Phvfi- )
can, or of the Health Officer and Confuting Phyfi- '
■ Cian (as the cafe may bc) each and every part of the
1 (hip or vcflel, and flia l present to his view cacU
■ and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and (hall also true and fatisfaciory answers make
• to all Inch questions as the Resident Physic ian, &c.
at the time of examiriation.ffiaU aik relative to the
health of any port or place frrm which .he {hip or
vessel failed, or has since touched at—the oumber
of persons on board whe/i the (hip or veffelaitered
,on her voyage—the number of persons have
since been landed or token 011 board, and when
and where persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or at
the time of examination, beinfetfted with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent state.and condition of the persons 011 board
with refped to their health or diseases. And if
any mailer or captain {ball refufe to cxpoTe as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid.
n it he fiiall conceal any sick person, win any other man
(tr deceive the proper officers aforefaid m bis answers,
uch captain or mailer, for every such offence, fliijji
forfeit and pay the fuci of riVE hkndked do»-
LARS.
Sect. 8. And if any person or persons whatft
ever f the Resident Physician, &c.' excepted)' (hall
S'o on board any ye del, before the mailer thereof
has received a certificate of health in the tfwnner
direiled, every person so offending! (hali pay th#
um of ONE RONDI;ED DOLLARS
IT" being abfolwely necessary that the foregoing
feiSlions £bould beptineJaall/ complied with t th«
fubferiber, m compliance with his duty, nmft nx
aS rigorots observance of the fame, or else be
iiinlor tlw necessity of putting the laws in force.
W M. Al-LEN, Health (ifficcr of tit
Rot tit rbiLidelpJj.a. ji (
J"'r
[Volume XII.f n'j l nstr Ht a ,
r TUF.SDAY tV£NiN(j, Sf JTEMBER
Prot'.i the P'id.aikLi QaZHtltb, trfc>
No. IX.
A Of THE CAttVfeJ Of TiU
fcisfUR.BASCES BETWEEN THE AMERI
CAN ASD rßfisCll REj>UßLic!s,
Addreffcd to the Citizens of America.
MY FELLOW-CITIZENS, '
An excule which was offered for this very
improper correspondence Mr. Jefferfon
with Mazzei, in a certain American papeK,
just about ths time he went ta congress in
May la(l, which was soon after the letter
made its appearance in America, deserves
to be particularly noticed here ; not only
on jiccouti t of its being delivered, that
it was the exeufe of Mr. Jefferfon himfelf,
and, therefore, the beft>6h every
tion that could be offered, but because, it
will also serve to open a further view to a
conne&ioti nfthenveanß employedby France,
'and the fubfeivience of other nations in sub
mitting to he made her tools in promoting'
her nefarious views
You were told in that exeufe, my fellow
citi'zens, that you ought to pay no attention
to the charges raised against Mr. Jefferfon,
on account of that letter, because it Was a
tn?.e little private Communication with a
man with whoiji he -.7 as in habits ofint'ima
cy, nnd held friendly corre pondence, who
when in Virginia, was a dependant on Mr.
Jefferfon, ind a republican ; a friend to mo
harchy ,y/h\\t a prisoner to the British in New-
York and a jacobin when under a dread of
the French in'Tufcany—to appease whose
threatening Vengeance by flattering them
with the opinions of this exalted American
in favor of their conduft.- against his own
country, or to shew his own importance in
iorrelponding with such a chaAfter, it was
laid the !etter wastranfmitted for publication
in Paris.
•This is all true enough ; but as an ex"
tufe for the writer, it is to ftie only another
of those felf-contradi&ing, contra-convinc
ing arguments, with which the letter and
its apologies abound. With refpeft to its
being private I trust, I have already fuffi
ciently {hewn, that so far from offering an
' apology, that adds considerably to the im
propriety of f\ich a correspondence from such
hand ; and as to the other part of the ex-
it was written to % man, whose
supple conscience in politic* was such, as to
render him the speckle tool, thus capable of
exhibiting all the prevailing colours of the
rainbow in the little circle of private life,
round whichl.e was doomed to travel, then
certainly was it the more improper, as it was
the more likely to be used to our prejudice,
when the influence he was under, happened
to he Unfavorable to us. \
The various means which the French em«-
ployed among their neighbours to promote
,then views, and the cringing dispositions of
some of them, are only a stronger proof of
the impropriety of any who were yet unen
cumbered, though they would wifli to en
gage in those views, rkking any thing with
those neighbours which might be turned a -
gainst themselves. In the cafe of Holland
and Belgium, under the pretence of setting
them free,- {he obtained their immediate aid
as spies, as informers, and as instruments in
the-projeft of subduing other nations into
the fame ufe,and under the pretenceof guard
ing against the danger from her emigrants,
(he employed a variety of other means to in
duce others, who were not to be influenced
by the fame pretexts, to beiome her dupes.
She armed, and finally declared and com
menced war against some ; and demanded
of others to dismiss the emigrants from their
territories ; till most of the nations round
were either involved in war, or became her
tools to promote her views. The Swiss
cantons were among the few who boldly and
fuccefrfully refiftcd her demands* : While
others were soon reduced an 3 compelled to
" aft as instruments and spies, against those
whose dispositions or fate wa3 yet undecided
in the part they were to adt, io the great re
volutionary disorganizing Icheme of France.
Spain, for a while was one of the combin
ed powers who opposed her plans : But be
ing at length conquered and compelled to
become her ally, or rather her tool the means
■which have been employed through that im
poitant acquisition, to drive America into
her views, serve to {hew the impropriety ps
committing ourselves' too far to any nation
thus under her controul ; at the fame time
that it adds to the variety of proofs which
we have of the commencement and promotion of
those means. The unnatural conrieftion of
a monarchy, whose leading and national cha
racteristic isjealoufy, with a republic, isfuf
ficient of itfelf to {hew the servile readiness
of those nations, of that description, under
the mfloouce of France, to promote her
views by every and the most contemptible
means. A monarchy, a princedom, or a
dukedimi, receiving the fraternal speeches
and embraces of a republic, is of itfelf an
odd enough %ht; but to be crawling on
their hands and knees to receive their orders
from those natural enemies of their exijle,nce,
is what neither of them can do through
choice ; and, therefore, is the impropriety
of entrusting our fee rets, which might drag
us into the fame humility, in the bosoms of
such depend; cs, the mote striking ; and
the afts of some of th»fe dependant nations
will verve as a further illustration of the
eaufes of the injuries and the insults we
have already received from that nation by
trailing our affairs with such dependants.
The acquisition of Spain in the grand
maritime coalition that was to disorganize,
and, in faft, destroy all Europe, was a thing
of no small importance, as it related to the
reduction of the United States of America
into the scheme. Situated as the Colonies of
Spain and America are, and interested Jn
• See their spirited correfpond«nce vriih Barthe
l»mi, the French minister.
f
fotAe of the tVeftet'n Waters alike, it was easy "
to perceive, that the fpbfervience of that na-.
tion to France, was of as much importance
in apcling her in her pretexts for quarellitig .
with us, as if she had poffefied those Spanilh j
settlements herfelf. What this jacobiriical
republic could not find a pretext for, as the
iiery natural friend and ally of the Spanilh
monarch, or accomplish herfelf, situated as
(lie was, (lie found the means of availing her
felf of, from the ascendancy which {lie held
over that etidaved king. Actordingly, our
treaty with Great-Britain, which h-d been
the pretence of quarrel on the part of France
herfelf was also mace the pretence of jealou
sy and uneasiness on the part of Spain. Our
having admitted Great-Britain, however,
into a participation of our right to the use
of the Milfifippi, being too glaring an ab
surdity to be made the ground of any seri
ous objection, a pretence was then raised, of
an intended expedition from Canada, against
Upper Louifiatia { in consequence of which,
the execution of our treaty with his Catho
lic riiajefty was suspended, and in (lead there
of, farts and garrisons ere&ed and manned
within our territory ; reports made to our
executive of the intended violation of the
neutrality of the United States, by the fup
pofedpreparations making by the Britilh to
mgrch through our territory ; while our
foil was aftually erected into fortifications,
and Our treaty broken on the part of Spain :
And when doubts were raised by our execu
tive (after a thorough examination into the
complaint of the pretended expedition into
Louisiana) about the ground# for those sus
picions, proofs given of the adual fortifica
tions ere&ed in our country being at lead as
great a violation of our neutrality, as any mere
Jufpieion of the'intentions of the Britilh to
march throngh our territory ; and the sus
pension of the execution of our treaty oa
the parj of Spairt (in these pretexts com
plained of; our government was addressed
by the mir.ifter of that king, in a style -un
paralleled, except in she diplomatic history
of French insolence itfelf. Not only the
business between America and Spain, b\rt
even the manner of condii&ing our internal
affairs to suit ourselVes, as it had been by
the French ministers, fcas objected to by that
of Spain ; the representatives. of the peo
ple even, with whom a foreign minister can
have nothing to do, insulted and called
# tools to the executive.
This certainly, no one can deny, waß *
continuation of the French system, coun
tenanced and promoted by some of cir own
citizens : For whp, that will refleft on the.
situation of the Spanilh settlements in A
merica (poffefiing every temptation the
inhabitants of the western parts of the U
nited States, and fubjed at a moment's
warning to be swept away) can suppose,
that they would be so imprudent, of their
own accord, as to insult and offend us ?
And )Jie Ftench having no public minister ]
herc'at that time, there is no doubt, in my
(nind, but that the philippic of Yrujo.vtas
only another of those little private commu
nications of some of our American chiefs,
brought forth by the influence of that na
tion over the tn:n:&er of another ; as in the
instance of the one at the court of Tufcany,
who, it is admitted, publifbed the ferret la
bors of his friend in Paris, to juflify and,
etlcouragc their treatment of America !
The influence, the pretences, and intrigues
of France ; the uses made of the informa- '
tion obtained from the communications of
some of our own citizens, by means of that
influence over other nations as well as the
co"-oper»tion of those citizens immediately
in their plans, are all very perceivable in
this whole affair'*, as well as some other
things connefted therewith. First, gene
ral Clarke, of Georgia, whp had a&ually
received a com million from Genet, and was
eVir known to be devoted to France, it
was pretended, was enga'ged in the service
of the Britilh, in their intended invasion
of Louifiaiia.
Blount's plot' next breaks out. A mnn
ever devoted to the French ; in the {trifleft
intimacy with the Spanifti minister, whouis
under the influence of the fame people of
no acquaintance or visible conne&ion with
the Britilh ; from & state whole politics
were entirely of the French cast ; (to wliopi
Adet in the scheme of electing a prefiJent
" devoted" to France, deputed one Collet
to promote the plan) advocated by "a sena
tor (violent in the interest of the French •,
and defended by an attorney diflingvijhed as
a reporter both in \politics and law where,
let me aflt, are the proofs of his correspond
ence Tjing intended to bring on a Britifb
war with Spain, except in his letter itfelf,
which was noth-ng but another of those
little private communications, which, accord
ing to some men*s opinions, ought not to
operate against their writers! Why, if it
was a Britilh plot, has there never been
one man at least proved to be connected with
Blount, but those of open and avowed at
tachments to France ? Is it because those
of an opposite description are not to be
trusted with the secrets of their own party ?
And why did that exalted character, whom
Blount had labored to have elected president
of America, desert his post, while that im
portant enquiry was on foot; to which no
mere matter of official etiquette»form, or
private business should have been preferred ?
Was it that he was afraid of being fuf
pefted of being engaged in a Britijh plot ?
. Was it that he was afraid of offending his
friends the French, in affifling in detcding
and puniftiing such a plot against their Spa
nilh ally ? Or was it that he really thought
such a little private communication with a
friend at a diilant J court (which was only
'• " After having heard a certain member of
congress, who is known to be thy organ of ehtf ad
tnirijlration" fays Yrujo.j and then drawl his con
cJut'ons in his diplomatic communications from thoft
Ugifiativt prcmiies.
f See Dalian's report, Genet verfut King and Jay.
j The period to vl'hom Blount's letter wis writ
ten, was an interpreter at an liulian court-, which
interpreter, and which court, were a= honerahle, a
worthy, and as much to be trusted -with ft rU, 1
dare lay, as thatperfon and ilut court to which
Mr. J -a'l was lent.
Calculated to involve JrrJ/ica iii a war) Vvaa <
not wort.h the notice people of. this 1
country ? These art queßTons I (lioflld like 1
t'o fee answered With all that openness, candor
and sincerity, with which some ot our emi
nent chkrailers are now supposed to abound ! ;
If it was really believed that Blount had
no serious intention of exciting an expedition <
Sgainft Louisiana froth Canada, and there
fore that his letter to Cary ought not to be •
considered a matter of such criminal cast '
agaifift him ; if it was from this belief that .
this little private correspondence, let out by
the intdSication of liquor, as the one to
Mazzei, it is said was by that of Canity or
fear, that th? sympathetic forbearance of one
to be present and aiding in his prosecution,
and his continuance in senate was advocated
by another, then do I agree most heartily
with our French patriots that those little pri
vate letters are not of so much consequence
and danger as they have been thought.
That Blount's letters had np real and serious
view to the promotion of a Britijh plot
against Spain ; but that the {cheme (only
seen in part in that letter) was to have an
eSait opposite direction, the evidence of \
every thing that has yet appeared in the
cafe most clearly shews.
Besides the intimacy which Mr. Blount
had with the Spanish minister, it is 1 pretty
notorious, that he was also in the ftrifteft
intimacy, and held constant correspondence
with Adet while in this country. Part of
the plan to drag America into the grßnd
scheme of difor'ganizing all Europe, by the
deftruftionof Great Britain, which has now '
come to light, and which bears a strong re
semblance (when viewed with this pretended
Canadian expedition) toa French, a Spanish
and American, instead of a British port, it
would now.seem, was begun and carried on
by Adet, while thusin habits of intimacy
and correspondence with Mr. Blount. In
stead of an expedition against Louisiana
from aided by the Americans, it is
now clear, that the peor Canadians had t
naugh to do at home, to prevent thfeir help
less wives and children being flrangled in
their beds, or pa\foned\w the libations m this
holy and pious minijler of the Spanish ally, t,o
be offered up, by American hands. Mr. A
det, it appears, from all the testimony in
•the trial of M'Lane, had employed that de
testable Apieritan to stir up an infurreftion
in Canada. Quebec was to be taken by se
cretly adminiftcring Laudanum, and other
atrocious means. Arms were shipped from
France ; and troops were to be sent from the
fame quarter, who, in conjunction with some
of our good French patriots in America, were
to complete this noble work ; while good
majl+r Trujo was to raise the pretence of a
British and an American plot, to discredit
that nation here, obfeure the true laudanum
plot, or, if it was discovered, to have for
it, at least some co.lorable pretext.
So artful, fe horrid, and so wicked a
projeft for exiting treason, murder, and re
bellion among nations, could never have
been thought of and put into execution,
but by the ingenious, the enlightened, and
philosophic admirers of liberty and humanity ;
thf mvrntw and qelebrators of their owa re
publican * marriages at home ! But this af
fair between Adet and M'Lane was another
of those little f private correspondences bet
ween fricllds ; carried on by the influence of
the former over the latter ; by vanity arising
' from the honor of the correspondence ; or,
perhaps, by the influence of a little French
gold ( and, therefpre, ie, with some, per
haps, a thing of bo great consequence !
While the information of Yrujo (which was
also private} of the intended expedition a
gainst Louisiana, peremptorily demanded
blithe attention pfthe United States—both
by its councils ?nd its citizens at large ! 1.
Added to all this—pur mailed minifler,
home frojn France, nearly about
the time ' this grand French, Spanish, and
American preparation, for diforg»nizing and
overturn ing regular governments, was thus
drawing to A -point. That the circumstan
ces of that recal wer« to'be attended with
some little increase of private enmity to the
American government, Was not to have been
wondered at ; but that that enmity, toe,
was to .have broken out ioto overt a3s a
gainfl the government, was hardly Jo have
been expeded. . V et, unexpc&ed as it was,
the recall of Monroe was made a pretence
for juftifying the conduct of France, as well
as holding out frelh hppes to her of suc
ceeding in her demands, from the division
among ourselves. It was well known) that
the d'fpijte betvyeen. the American govern
ment and France, took plaee while colonel
Monroe at that court ; and from the
long and warm attachment of that.gentle
man, to the iritereftsof that country, it was
certain that an approbation of his conduit,
whatever might be the merits of t the recal,
would be considered as a juftification of
France, and a condemnation of our own
government. Accordingly, without any
previous investigation or knowledge of the
causes of the recal, an immediate determina
tion-was formed to juftify the conduit of
Monroe. -
Trivial fails 6fteu throw light upon im
portant designs. The circumstances attend
ing the entertainment given to Col. Monroe,
on hie arrival at Philadelphia, on that oc
count, are not unworthy particular notice
here. At that entertainment, the vice pre
sident, tho fpeakev of the house of the nati
onal representatives, and a feuator of the
United States of America were present.
An address was presented, approving warm
ly and completely the conduit of Mouroe,
" up«jn the information they had on the fub
jedt which information could have been
but limited and partial, ap it was derived
from him who has since called for informati
* The republican marriages were men and wo"
men, or infants, tied back to back, and thrown in
to water out Of their depth for the
of the Jacobins.
•)■ Every plot is a frivatt affair until It be rr.adi
public l>y some accimnt or cause ; but their beTog
private or jhere being caufti for being difdofed
do not render theip-the lef» treafcr.able when they
are discovered.
on hlmfelf; while a pointed disapprobation \j
of the conduit ps the government, marked p
the whole complexion of this politicalfea.lL.: t
Besides the address, the evident tendency of j ,
the toasts was, to approve of thi minister j
and France, and censure that of the govern- j
ment which had recalled him. Without en- c
tering into a condemnation of the recalled 4
miniller, unfieard,- and without knowing the i
whole merits of the cafe, as they have done I
with refpeit to the government, I shall jult i
ohfcrve for the present, that it is the firft ■
instance, I believe, in which some of the
firll officers of government have ever turned j
their moments of feftivity and relaxation i
from public buiinefs, into a serious and J
pointed crimination of the aits of that gov- j
ernment. "j
That the private citizens, who have no ;
public opportupities of difcuifing and offer- <
ing their, opinions upon (late affairs, should t
turn their heedlitfs moments of levity and i
mirth, into seasons of serious judgment and j
severe censures against the government, is j
not extraordinary, nor at all dangerous ; but
that the firft officers of government, whofc <
particular duty it is, upon all occafious, and i
at all times, to examine thoroughly, and weigh i
the aits of the governments they are i
entrnftedto adminifter,before theyhold those .
aits up as unjust and improper; to ward off j
and not invite foreign dangers ; and for that
purpose to reconcile and «onceal, and not .
foment and p.ubli£h domestic differences j
{hould, in so liafVy a manner, at such an .
improper time, and upon so flight and par- i
tial an examination, bold op the government j
and country ~ with wh'ofe.fafety andwelfare
they are entrufled, as improper and
(to a conntry which waits only for a lit mo- ,
ment of deftruition) at the fame time that
they fan those internal diffejences that ire
to insure them success—is indeed unparal
leled and astonishing ! It was not to be ex- I
pe&ed that France would be entirely blind
to such a ftrikiflg and conspicuous circum- ! t
stance ; rfor was it to be expected, from the
principles by which (he has been already led i
to injure us, that (lie would-relax iu'her de
terminations to commit those injuries, from
a view of such circumstance.
But here let, us paule 1 Fails will now
soon perhaps speak for themselves ! With
out any labored vindication on the one fide,
or high wrought panegyric on the other, yre
shall presently be convinced, 1 trust, by solid
and happy experience,by WHO &;WHAT
our disturbance with France have been bro't
upon us, as it is sincerely hoped, that it will
quickly be discovered now, by WHO and
WHAT those disturbances will be quieted.
I have already observed, that;'they began and
attained to their highest pitch, while the
gentleman, whom this feaff was intended to
compliijient, was our minister at that court.
They will be ended, I trust, by the powers
with which the new miffiou are charged,
and the difpolitions and talents they poflefs.
The firm and well tried patriqtifm and in
tegrity of a Pinekney, the open, the candid,
and brilliant ingenuity of a Marshall, and
the plain and honest understanding of a Ger
ry, it is believed, will soon place the con
duit of our governWient, and the diipofitions
of the people of America, in that true light,
which will restore that nation to ttyfcjr former
dispositions towards us.
Should this be the cafe, that mission, tho'
industriously represented as pofTeffing senti
ments and dispositions unfriendly to an ad
justment of our differences, will stand in
need of no vindication. I shall not fail,
however, to seize upon that circumstance to
place the charge of a wish in our govern
ment and its frieinds, to bring on a war with
that country, in that true light in which it
deserves to stand : And until the fate of that
embafly (hould be decided, shall now take
my leave of you, my fellow-citizens, with
that fiticere wish for a speedy reconciliation
of all our differences, and prayers for your
welfare, which an attachment to one's own
jntereft, without'any violent profclTions of
love for others, will pioft naturally insure.
AMERICANUS.
Richmond, September n, 1797.
C"?" The Developement of the Causes of
the Disturbances betwe'en the American and
French, Republics, by jfmeriianus, will now
be discontinued, until the fate of the new
million, to France is known, and a thor6ugh
knowledge of the merits of the old obtained;
when the nine numbers already written, in
hafle, for this paper, will be corrected, en
larged and improved, and the fubjeit resumed
in the papers, and the whple of the work,
with considerable amendments, notes (and
vouchers, if necessary) republifhed in pam
_ ,
Fayette county, Augufi 16th, 1797.
. Mr. Scull,
Y have lately arrived from a weflernJlate,
and am much pleafedto jind that the citizens of
this and the neighbouring counties are not all led
a"juay by a foreign influence ; that they are not
made jacobins or democrats, and exerting every
nerve to overthrow our present government, and
eflablijh a foreign one in its flead: our pretended
patriots (as their friend, citizen Fauchet, cal
led them J will deny that that they had this in
view, but what mere honorable objeß could they
be in pursuit of, in raising such a cry againfl
the British treaty and opposing it so violently in
Congress. I male no doubt but many well
meaning men have been so wrought upon by the
designing and knavish as to think the treaty a
bad one, for all' men are not politicians i bat
that one well acquainted with politics, and,
uninfluenced by party and fef-intere/l, J fay,
for such aperfon to think the treaty injurious to
our people, was and is itnpojfible.
An inflrument so well calculated to secure (he
peace and promote the interefl of the slates ; an
iuflrument from which we are deriving such
great advantages, and from which we should
receive 'many more benefits --jsvas it not for the
French party among us, whoJlrive to inflame
the dircSory andfet them againfl the American
government- Tes, Sir, this party hyvc done
their utmojl to defeat a treaty that has given us
peace with the Indians, secured indemnification
hour injured merchants, eflabljfhed tradi. on 0
holing advantageous, to thp United Statu*, and
prevented a deflru&ve war with Great-Bri
ain. >. .
s h there ariy one in the tJnited Slates that
'fill tbiriL f morally of thpfe who 1 have been
"oremoji in oppifing the Britijh treaty, let him
ompare that treaty with the treaty made with
he Aigerines and fee what; a vajl sum We pay
hat little nation from whom we receive nothing
nit what is jujlly due us, and let him fay why
here Was no clamour raised egainjl that treaty.
. ' — JC — . . I
From the( Vermont ) Argus.
MAHOMET, the famous Arabian. Impostor,
lied the fore part of the fevenih century . His
r uccrjp>rs tn government were filled Califs, their
r ubfe£}s, Saracens. Thtfe, impelled by an irreji*
Hble fanatic fin, and more willing to die than
not to be viSorious,faund none able to Jlop their
tareer. But they clearly evinced, that victory a
brSad is not always attended with happiness at
home. Those who led them to glory, 'victory and
(pill, often felt the direful effects of their dome-
Hie machination.
A comparison if their hiflory with the h 'lflory
of the present Gallic revolution, will present <t
resemblance, which serves to evince that human
nature is the fame in dijlant countries, and dijlant
ages. To day is a chieftain admired at hoine
and victorious abroad ; all fear to blame the
faults they fee all that. is. public is plaudit.
He orders them in crowds to the dungeon or
death— to the dungeon or death they are in
(lantly dragged ! Mean while a plot is laid, is
ripenfd —-andhe, whom none dared dispute, is
now by aJlroke laid breathlefs —The people
join to execrate him, and a new tyrant becomes
their idol.
In Itfs than Jive centuries more thdn fifty
Caßff reigned ever the Saracen empire. A'few
had loifg reigns ; the rejl fell moflly by the hand
of the affajjin, or by poison, the Worjl weapon
of ruffians, But we wijh tiol to level the French
nation, with the Saracens in every refpelt. In
the midfl of murder, and frantic conquejl, we
flill discover thf glimmerings of" the sacred
flame of Liberty and we anticipate the day
when its meridain fplendorJhall dissipate the
glar ing meteors, which have fa long deluded
that gallant nation. COLUMBUS.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, July 20.
His majefly lately took a very remarkable
tccafion to express his approbation of the conduct
and measures of his present Miniflers : —lt it
an ejlablijhed cuflom for the Bench of Bi/hopt
to go into the King's Closet on the anniversary
of his Birth-day, and pay their annual homages
of refpett and attachment to his Royal Person
and House. Oh Monday morning, the sth5 th of
June, this congratulation was made by. the
Archlifhop of Canterbury, the speech was
made by \the Archbijhop of Tori. In this Ad
dress no aUufion whatever vftb* made to the
politics of the day. But his Majefly in his gra
cious anfwtr to the Learned and Reverent
Prelates, took occajion to assure them, " That
his Miniflers continue to " pojfefs his entire and
unabated conjunce ; " that he fully approved
of their measures , "and that he Jhould conti
nue to support them "so long as they a Bed up
on the famt fyfltnf," or words to that efeSt.
Our modern Beaux would be extremely care
ful »/ quarrels, if a challenge in the present
day were to be conduSed as. in the Age of Cl'ii
valry, Felton the Affajfm of the Duie of
Buckingham, having received an affront from
a gentleman, sent him a challenge; and Id
prove his magnanimity, he cut off and in
closed in his letter, the tip of his little finger.
A meeting of the London merchants and
(hip owners, .was held on WedneSday at the
London tavern, to consider the late decilion
in the law cause of Smith against Shepherd,
which made it neoeflary for them to take
into consideration what means could be nioft
prudently adopted in their present Situation
with regard to their liability to answer for
lofTts at sea. A bill had been brought in
to parliament to releive them, from the hard
(hips.to which the decision exposed them ;
but as the ceflion terminated before it could
be thproughly diScufled, the (hip owners
felt themselves called upon to provide Some
regulation until a permanent law (hould be
made on that fubjeft by the legiflaturc.
The temporary remedy, proposed at the
meeting, as the best means to provide agaiufi:
the inconvenience complained of, was that
of making an alteration in the hill of lading.
After Some diScufiion, in which Mr. Foster
(the chairman) Alderman Curtis, MeSsrs.
Hill, Long, Bonner, Curling, Chapman
and King took part, it was unanimously
agreed to, that instead of the words " Dan
gers of the seas only accepted," the follow
ing words be introduced into the bills of la
ding in future,," all,and every the danger*
and accidents of the seas and of navigation,
of whatever nature or kind fbever, excep
ted." As meeting was but thinly at
tended, the further consideration of the re
solution was postponed.
The French Journel called the SentineHe
fays,—"Lately a bill yras ported up on the
church door in the department of LaSarthe,
containing an invitation to the Faithful.,to
receive their good Priests who were trans
ported, and to reftere, under the paia of
darr nation, the goods taken from the illus
trious nobility. Who could believe that
some peasants were stupid enough to believe
that thtfe bills were ported up by Angels
from Heaven!
Such is the pi?ty of some of the French
peasants, and such the improvement they
have made under the initru&ion of their
Priests?
Two naval officers, as they were walking
'.ogether, in the Strand, on Monday, last,
flopped a man, not apparently a seaman,
whom they charged with being a delegate.
They had collared him, and were prpceeding
with'him te the navy office, Somerset Place,
when the fellow knocked down one ofthem,
and made his escape from the other, not*
withstanding there were Several by-ftanders.
The convi&s at Portfonouth, to the a
mount of 100, on Monday evening, had
very nearly effedled their escape. They
/ere at last Secured, /-
/The follow in r paragraphs are ftlefted.
from Mr. Morgan's pamphlet on " the pre
sent alarming state of the public finances."
" After a fruitlefs struggle of four years,
which has been signalized by a greater de
ftruftion of human life aed property than
ever before desolated the in the fame
length of time, and when every principle is
abandoned which we were firft. excited to
defend, we are now called upon to renetv
our exertions in a contest which holds forth
no determinate to be attained, and
offers no other profpexft of its conclusion,
than ih the utter ruin of those resources by
svhich it-is supported. The extravagance
and the disasters which so eminently diftifi
guifh this war, are not more fnrprifing than
the torpid indifference with which they have
been endured— an indifference which has
not only injured but even difgraeed the na
tion."
" One of the pretended motives of this
war, has been the defence and preservation of
property ', and it must afford some confolati
_on to the frieuds of differing humanity, to
be assured, that if it be continued a little
longer on the preficht system of expencfe, it
will be the last war we shall eve.- have occa
sion to wage on that account. It is but sel
dom, I believe, that the reaHnterefts o£"a
country derive much improvement or Sup
port from war and taxation ; and if any at
tack on our property was ever seriously me
ditated in the pr«fent instance, we seem fa
tally to have mistaken the quarter to which
our defence should have been directed ; for
while our efforts have been employed with
various success against the ravages of our e
neniies abroad,, they appear to have opposed
a very feeble resistance to the depredations
of our more formidable enemies at home."
" The effects of the heavy inpofts upon
wine are already felt in the diminished con
sumption of that article. By a comparison
of the imports of port wine in the half year
ending the sth of July, 1795, and the half
year ending July 5, 1796, it appears that
the value of the wine imported was reduced
from 383,5321. to 136,2291. By having
recourse to such methods df providing for
the interest of the public debts, the rriinffter
seems to be more anxious about having a
nominal tlian a real revenue.
PARIS, July 20.
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
Sitting of July 19.
Paftoret complained to the council of an
'article which had been published in the Re
dafteur, refpedtirtg the legislative bodies.
The article is as follows:—" A fort of
anarchy in the deliberations which ought
to be the molt solemn ; unreasonable moti
ons of order, the most fhameful prejudices
and fuperftition£ defended and caressed from
the tribune, when reason ought to have
wielded against the arms of perfuafioh ; a
lawless insubordination exctifed and encou
raged, who would believe it? by the or
gaifc even of these laws ; and the declarati
on of a refufal to obey them, recognized
as a motive for yielding to rebellion ; the
faithful priests delivered over to derision and
to vengeance, while the refraftory are un
pimifhed and protected by the formal aits
of the legislature ; the emigrants returning
with the banished, are preparing to' arm the
iedtaries in favor of the foreign enemy who
supported them in their exile ; the finances
occupying If fs attention thau bells; a re
port ith errors, which seemed to
hive exaggerated the disposable resources
for the purpose of eluding the establishment
of new resources, &c.
1 " Who will be surprised that we eon
' eeive unfavorable omens ? Ah ! though vo
lumts have been written in recounting the
tragical history of the calamities of the
revolution, it will be ho less terrible a task
to trace in perfpe£tive those which they are
preparing for us. Tacitus used to fay,
when speaking of the senators in the time
of Tiberius, " tempore ilia adeo infe&a,
Ut ortnes fenatores quicuncjue certatim ex
furgerent faedaque et nimia conferent."
These tiijies were so infe£ted with corrup
tion, that all the senators were seized with
a desire of delivering opinions as ridiculous
as they we're vile. Thus, adds the histo
rian, Tiberius used to cry every time that
he went out of the senate, 0 homines ad
fervitulem paritns ! Let us take care that
the times of Tiberius do not return."
" I (hall make no remarks upon the fore
going," said Paftoret, " but move that a
message be sent to the directory to require
of it an account of the measures which have
been taken to prosecute the author of this
article."—Decreed.
* Sitting of July 22.
On the motion of Gitbert DefmolJeres, a
project of a rtfolution refpe<fting"finanee was
adopted.
The executive direftory wrote that it was
ignorant who marked out the march of the
troops,and that they hitherto trusted citizen
Lefage, commiffarv of war, of Charleville,
to inform the municipal'officers of La Ferre,
of the arrival of these troops. • '
It invited the council to calife the circle
er distance to be traced, that no error may
take - place for the future. It adds that
some reckon La Ferte 'll, other* 12, and
ethers 13 leagues from Paris.
This message was referred to the eom
miffiori, and like wife the other, which was'
not read,' refpefting the state of the troops
in Paris, and which have passed within the
limits since the ift Meflidor.
The difciiflion upon political associations
was resumed.
. ' PARMA, June 21.
Yesterday morning we witnefled a cOrious
fcenc—about 200 republicans from Milan
presented themselves before Our gates, bring,-
lag with them a car in which was jin enor
mous branch of a tree crowued with a red
bonnet. The guards at the gate refufed
this party entrance j but fortunately a re
publican officer put an end to the tumult,
tiy removing the tree of liberty, under the
authority of Buonaparte's proclamation of
the 10th of this month, to prevent any
French or Italians disturbing the fuTajedts of
the duke of Parma.
N l>y this day's Mail.
NEW YORK, September 25.
Copy of a letter from Capt. Sherry, of the
ship Oneida, to eapt. Kemp, of the ship
Faftor.
Nantes, June 16, 1797.
SIR,
I take this opportunity of informing
you of oilr capture, vis : On the 25th May,
in lat. 49, 24, long. 12, 10, was brought to
by the ship Fawn, a French privateer, mount
ing 18 nine, and 2 twelve pouqders, and
j men answerable. They took charge of us
i without looking at our papers—exchanged
! men and officers, and convoyed us into
Nantz ; but if fortune had favored us to
have loft fight of her for one half hour, (he
had been our own again. The day after I
arrived at this place, the (hip Brifeis, of New
York, Uound to Amfterdani, was brought
in ; and fix dpys after, the ship Confedera
cy, from India bound to Hambro' was bro't
in also, and seVeral ships from Philadelphia
Charleston, and other ports in America are
here ; and there is no profpeft of either
/hips or cargoes being cleared ; for, as faft
as they try them they condemn them. Their ,
orders are, to take every American thev fall !
in with bound where they will, even if botund
to France, and let the Americans be furnifh-
I ed with all mid every paper that is requisite
relative either to .ship or cargo, it avails
nothing. Therefore you are very fortunate
not to fall in with any of thofc infamous
French robbers ; for so sure as you had, so
' sure France would have been your fate.—
But fortune and good winds have favoured
you, which I hope will always follow yoiK
AH my passengers have got their passport's,
and set off this day for England, by way of
St. Maloes. Ny doubt before this time*
you have heard of Capt. Haley's a
eommiffioned officer in France, whicb i 6
the news in this place. I am, &f. ,
D. SHERRY.
Capt. Kemp, of the ship Fattor.
Tranjlatedfor the Daily Advertiser.
PA RIS
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
Sitting of the 14th Mcfiidor (July 12.)
Several merchants of Nantes, denounsed
the scandalous conduft of the Americans
since the beginning of the'war.
I have not read the whole document, an
extraft of which you havejuft now heard,
said Villiers, but I feel confident that it is
such as to fix your opinion on the pretend
ed motion of order made some time since by
your colleague Paftoret : This is not the
time to enter into a difcuflion on its merits j
but it will be easy to prove that the directo
ry had not only the right, but that it was
in duty bound to aft at it has done. You
cannot conceive how France hat fuffered
since the war. The tribunals do not dare
decide upon a multitude of cases now before -
them.
What cannot be contested by any one, is
that the 25 or 30,000 vessels formerly em
ployed in the trade of Great-Britain* are 1 '
Suddenly metamorpofed through the mod in
famous machievalifm, into American vessels.
I request that the denunciation be referred
to a commission which shall report within
three days.
And I, said Bergevin, move the order of
the day on the commitment for this reason,
that nothing would tend more to obftruft
the armaments now going on in our ports
with the utmost aftivity, than such a mea
sure.
Lenormint Seconds the motion for the
commitment but wishes it t0 be a special
commission.
The commission to whicl> was referred
the motion of order of Paftoret, said Camil
lus Jourdan, endeavours by every means in
its power to procure all the information it
can relative to the important duty with
which it is charged- The document irt
question may be of great use, and I'move it
be referred to it. Adopted. r
BOSTON, September 21.
THE FHGAT» CONSTITUTION.
Public notice having been given of the
intended launch of this frigate, yeftcrday,
an immense crowd .of people assembled, to
view a scene, which promised, greatly, td
fnte'reft their pride and feelings:—Much
credit is due to the Agent, and othere, 111
the Navy-Yard, for the arrangements madei;
they were certainly judicious, and difcoverl
ed an anxiety to accommodate-; although
innumerable fpe&ators were disappointed,
as to the laiuieh, yet there is no fault to be
attributed tc/ any one—the prudent precau
tion used by the ConJlrußor, to preserve
the constitution entire, and fend her
fafely to her destined element, while it h?s
retarded the completion of the launching,
for a day or two, is by no means dishonora
ble to him.—The public expedt, on Friday,
to be gratified in beholding a handsome
launch.
We are authorised to assure the public,
tnat preparations are making at
Yard for completing the launching of the
United States ship of war, constitution,
To-Morrow, a{ one o'clock.
the theatre.
Was completely filled last Evening, and,
as was expe&ed, the After-Piece of .the
launch, received with the nioft enfhufiaf
'tic tokens of public approbation, ever echo
ed in a Theatre; —it was indeed a new fpe
cie3 of national drama, which has not been
surpassed in dialogue, music, or 1 scenery.
Mr- H'dgkinfon, ever industrious and judici
ous, has, in the instance of producing this
temporary piece, witnefled the liberality of
a community who are not unmindful of his
talents as an author, and who have long
known and admired his spirit as an Adtor
and Manager.
FROM OUR PROVIDENCE CORRESPONDENT.
" Tuesday, Sept. 19.
" Last evening arrived in our river, the
copper-bottomed (hip Providence, owned by
Mess. Clarke and Nightingale, and comman
ded by Capt; Thomas Ctlet, burthen about
1 jco tons, mounting about 20 gurt«, and 70
| men, from Batavia, but last from the Ille of
( France, which he left a 110 days ago la
| den with Sugar, Coffee, Arrack, and Spi
| ces.
! "On the 12 of April, off Java-Head,
Capt. Coles,' spoke the fllip Eliza, Captain
Barnard, from Boston, out 4 months and 2
days, bound from Batavia."
I Mont]ay, Sept. 20.
> "We are sorry to fay, that the contagi
,, ous diforder.heve, is by no means abated in
its malignant symptoms.—Three people de
ceafe'd yesterday, afld whole famih'es, in the
quarter of the town where its rages, have
felt its effefts. Several shops are (hut, and
many people are removing. It is laid to
have been brought by a veflel from ttie W.
Indies, the Captain of which, fcavirig some
cat tie die on board, unwisely tctok off their
; flcins, and, by aegleift, they became a mass
;of putridity. This is another proof that the
yellow fever maybe generated in warm clim
ates, by local causes; for, when the air be
comes tainted, it is unfit for refpirafion, and
; progreflively infefts the whole mass of blood.
We derive, however, some consolation, from
its not rapidly spreading to different parts '
j of the town, though few efci»pe an attack,
1 in the houses contiguous to that were it was
firft communicated. The Theatre was open
for the last time, on Monday, when about
a dozen only attended, the Manager thongßt
it high time to close the scene, for the season.
The inhabitants of Newport, begin to fear
a communicatiou with this deToted town."
RICHMOND, September 20.
The following paragraph is the only printed
information we have received relative jto
the disease prevail^'Norfolk.
" MefTrs.
l " DEATH, prevailing difeaft},
ffometimes comes on Vithout much fever— r
the patient walks aboirt, and even eats with
his usual appetite, till the day before hq
dies.- This should teacli the chizens to nej
gleQ no indisposition, however trifling if
may be, at the present mortal season, but to
apply for medical aid as soon as pofTiblc.
j. " CAUTION."
Many circumflanccs combine to (hew that
the complaint which unhappily exists in
Norfolk, is (imilar, in all refpefts, to that
which rages in Philadelphia.—Baltimore is
also said to be infedted with the yellow fever.
—We fee no late accounts in confirmation
of that published a week or two ago, an
nouncing the death of ten or twelve persons,
daily, by this disorder, in Charleston, S. C.
and we are now inclined to hope the infor
nation was groundless.
While we lament the calamities which
have lately visited many sea-port towns up
on the continent, we are happy in having it
in our power to congratulate the inhabitants
of Richmond, upon the state of health,
which they at present enjoy, in so eminent a
degree—and may it please the Supreme Ry
ler- of the universe, long to extend to us,
this greatest of earthly blelfings.
V savannaTiTSepumter 1.
On the 6th inft. arrived from New-York,
in 9 days, the sloop Betsey, (a Staten Illand
dispatch boat) captain Jones, on business of
a private nature. Various are the reports
and conjeflures, refpe&ing her arrival, as
ihe is said to ha.ve brought but one letter.
Died, on the 6th inft. captain Robert
Phelan, of the brig Abigail, of Philadelphia,
(a native of Ireland) after a short illness of
3 days.
Last Saturday evening, a man by the
name of Smith, belonging to the (hip Age
noria, as he'was stepping into the. pilot boat,
that lay along" fide, fell into the river and
was drowned.
«—■—!—.» mi.il.!,!. 11 mmm+m
Xlj e
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, September a 6.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From thfi2sth to 25th Sept. in themorning.
'— \ .
Admitted, since last report,
Richard Jones —N0.38, Plumb street.
Mary Queen —No. 26, Shippen street.
Guy Blakily—John McLaughlins, Pen
ningtons Alley, between 4th and sth ftr.
Edward Reilly—lß4, South Water street.
Tabitha Walton— 47, Union street.
Robert McCauley—McCleod's Front street,
near the Rope Walks.
Wm. McCrevey—l96, South 2d street.
Francis Ward—jth below Walnut street.
Theobald McMechic—fign Rattlesnake,
Walnut street.
Discharged since last Report. I
James Field, admitted 14th inft.
Rachael M'lntofh, 14th
Elizabeth Adams, >ith
Andre, a Spaniard, 2d
Isaac Hoffman, 7th
Eloped.
Michael M'Faden, admitted 24th inft.
Died since last report.
wheiv admitted how long sick pre
vious to acimillion.
Law. Huddleftone, 23d. - 2 days
John Chapman, 21ft 1 day*
Wm. Hamilton, 23d 2 days
Remaining last Report 57
Admitted since, 9
• V 66
Discharged {
Eloped 1
Died 3 —— 9
n • •Us M f Cbnvalefcentsii")
Remain inHofpital, j gick j- 57
Fire of whom are dangerous. ,
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
since last report
From the city andfuburbs 11
From the city hospital 3
Total 14
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John Connelly. (
Published by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman protcm.
Total of Burials for 24 hours ending Sun
day at noon.
K Grown Persons. Children.
Cbrift Church X o
Second Presbyterian o I
Third Presbyterian to
St. Mary's Church 1 o
Free X O
German Lutheran to
German Reformed I 6
Moravians I O
Baptists I O
City Hospital* It o
Total 21 t
* from the city and fuburlt.
Total of burials for 24 hours, ending yefler r
day at noon. ,
Christ Church I O'
Third Presbyterian I o
Scots Prefbyfirian I o
St. Mary's Church 3 o
Swedes 4 1
German Lutherean it o
German Reformed • o 1
Methodists I
Potter's Field 2 5
City Hospital* 14 0
y% 6 7
* Seven of theft from the city.
No. HI.
CO MAJtV NIDATION?
From tie CowmiJ/ionert to the Governor.
SIR,
ON the firft instant, we commenced the duties
alTigned us by law, of giving relief and employ
ment to the indigent, occasioned by the existing
calamity ; and from the above date to the 16th
inclulive, in jnofecatiug the trust tepofed in Us,
expended Dol'.s. Cts.
j659 23
From the 16th to the 13d, relieved SJS
pcrfens, generally with families 1 798 90
Paid for bread a;
Do.to 639 men,for labor on the road,&c. 1133 4»
Do for provision for those in the tents »c 64*
Do. for Clerks', MelTengers' wages and
stationary 46 54
Dolls. 5871 49
Besides there are sundry accounts not yet fettled.
-By the above (lateraent you will perceive, that
our expenditures at present amount to upwards of
two thousand dollars per week; and canfequently
the sum granted by the Legiflattue, will be expen
ded by the last of next week-
We are anxious that means may be provided that
the poor and diftrefled (hall not be left destitute,
when the fund under our care fltall be expended,
and particularly we feel for the probable situation
of thitfe men, who are now at work on the roads
under our direction, molt of whom have families
to provide for, fliould that source be cut off, be
fore the return of our fellow-citizens, to find them
othor employment,
Far the early information of our fellow-citizens,
wc IW.ll take the liberty to tranfnait a copy of this
comir.nalratioH to the printer.
By order of the Board.
ROBERT WHARTON, Chairman.
To T»d*a* Mwmt*, Governor of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Statichoufe, -Sept. 23, 1797.
TWO CHARITr SERMONS
Will be preached of. Sunday aext at the
Calvinill Church, Germantown, for the re
lief of the poor and diflreffed citizens of Phila
delphia ; one in the morning at 11 o'clock
by the Rev. Dr. Blair, the othe< in the
afternoon, at 4 .o'clock by the Rev. Mr.
Assrcrombii.
Surprising mortality.
Diid—Laft evening, at the house of Job
Whitall at Red Bank, his wife, son, grand
son, and grandaughter, Sarah Whitall. Al
so at the Farm adjoining, Rebecca Whitall,
and a young woman who is said lately to
have hft the city.
In the fame neighbourhood, Benjamii)
Whitall, another fori of the'firft named Job
Whitall; and several other persons arc yet
flck in those families.
Upwards of twenty phyficiaus have fled
the city since the beginning of the present
epidemic.
COMMVNICA T/ON.
If to abandon the sick couch and the bed
ef death be the extreme of inhumanity 5 and
If a generous facrifice of all the comforts
of life, a magnanimous contempt of danger,
and a noble perseverance, to the last extremi
ty, in administering relief to distressed ob
je&s of disease and despair; can give exalted
claims to the consideration and gratitude of
the community, then is Dr. Dobeju, as well
as Drs. Cor, Church and Pleasants,
committee of phy
sicians) most eminently entitled to the dis
tinguished consideration of the citizens of
Philadelphia.
Henry William Dcfauflure, Esq. was
lately ele&ed Injendant of the city of'
Charlcfton, for the year ensuing.
03" " Plain Truth" To-morrow.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
New-Y©Ric, September 25.
JKkiyßD. Days
Brig Sally, HattoD, Liverpool 70
Schr. Lucy, Bailey, Bermuda 12
Sloop Riling Sun, Brooks,
St. Bartholomew 22
Arrived schooner Lucy, capt. Bailey
from Bermuda, which he left September
10th—brought in the crew of the fliip
Andromache, from New York bound *to
Jamaica, which was.taken the day after
leaving the port, by the French schooner
Lefpeigle,. capt. Le Barron or Barry,
from Porto Rico, and sent to that port.
Ihe fame schooner had taken three prizes
in this truift, which is .the third she has
made 00 oaf coast—This fame capt. Bmy,
we are assured, has a wife in New Jersey i
Boston, Septbmber 19,
Arrived, fchr. Thomas, Drew, Trinidad,
25 days.
September Jo, fchr. Waihirigton, Chad*,
Grenada, 3$ days—nothing new.
A (hip was seen in the outer harbour, on
Tuesday, and again yesterday ; but owing
to head winds, cotild not make up.
L//f of lir/pls, prize/ at
Ship Eliza, Turner, of Bolton, from
London, veflel and cargo libelled) brig
Nancy, Brown, of do. vessel and cargo con
demned by the French consul j brig Ma
ry, Burnham, of Boston, cargo condemned,
veflel libelled ; brig Byfield, Kinsman, Bos
ton, vefTtl and cargo libelled, brig Hack,
Hall, of New-York, veflel and cargo con
demned ; snow South Carolina, Andretvs,
libelled by the French consul. ,
The Aftrea, Tinkham, from Liverpool,
for New-York, is put intoCharlefton, dis
masted.
The (hip Wifcaffet, was spoke, 16 day*
Out, f6r Greenock, in la't. 43, all well.
The Caledonia; Hodge, was to fail from
Liverpool, for New-York, Aug. 22 ; the
Aligator, Harris, for Boston, Aug. 26 }
the Packet, Trott, for do. sooner.
Baltimore, Sept. 2s.
Arrived, brig Chance, Turner, 33 day*
from Cafie Francois.
Schooner Governor Clinton, Patter,
Philadelphia) 23 days froth St. Thomas's-
Left (hips Maryland, of Baltimore j Ann
and Mary, Superb, and Commerce, of, Phi
ladelphia ; and a number of other Ameri
cans,'whofe names are not recollefted.
Artivd yeHerr!* , fchr. Hornet, capt Sanger,
16 day* from Port-de-Paix
Capt. Sanger ha> obligingly favored us with the fol
lowing 'lift of prizes taken into Port-de-Paix,
from tbe id of June to thejth Setpt. '97.
Belonging to
Ship Two Sifters, Philadelphia
Goddelt of Plenty, Chornfldes, do.
Penelepe, Fischer, Charlefldn
Brig , P ockwcll, Norfolk
Defiance, Wifbey,
Nathaniel, Young, Haverhill
Rambler, Odlin, Philadelphia
Harriot, Campbell, Baltimore
Amelia, Houston, Philadelphia
Snow Polly, Senkey, do.
Schr. Harmony, Chafe, Norfolk
Polly, Cole, Alexandria
President, Hughes, ,J O .
Kitty, Hyiham, do,
Nancy, Dalton, Charlelton
Yetman, Craje, Philadelphia
Perseverance, Forreftst, do.
Ardent, Lee, do.
Lucy, Cheney, BoftoO
Eliza, Poulfon, Baltimore
Eagle, Demon, do.
Eliza, Deverys, New-York
Charlotte, Paderm, do.
Lucy, Higgins, Boftoa
Alciape,»ill, Philadelphia
Hazard, Ycung, Boston
Betsey, Rogers, Baltimore
Balaheo, Ripley, Philadelphia
Susannah, Webb, da.
Dolphin, Cullcn, Baltimore
Sloop Hawk, Langford, Rhode-Jfland
President, , Philadelphia
Rachel, Gilbert, Nevr.York
Fox, Brookes, Charleftoo
Norfoll, Sept. 18.
Yesterday arrived inHampton-rcadsthe l'choo-.
ner Peggy, eapt, W. Cowper, from Cape Fran,
coif, which he left the ift September. Capt,
Cowper informs that Santhonax failed on the
•4th August, in a (hip of ai gum, supposed
bound to France, and had a
on board with hhn. General ToufKint has tlie
chief command of the army arid had sent for
Gen. Rigaud to thp Cape, where he was hourly
expefled. Raimond and Leblanc have the chief
civil authority. A prize Englift fchoonir wa»
fitting out at the Cape to carry another deputa
tion to France, and was to fail in a few day?.
Capt. Cowper further informs, that about
40 ftil. of (Americans were laying at St. Ja
go, 17 fail at Port-au-Paix, and 4 fail at
Mente Christie, all of whom were waiting
for trial.
The brig Abigail, Anderfon, of thil
port, was taken hetween the Mole and Cape
May, outward bound to Jamaica, and ear*
ried to gt. Jago.
Sailed in company-» Brig Cleopatra,
of Philadelphia bound to the Havanna.
Left there—Brig Hannah, Haynes, froa
Norfolk.
Schr. Sally, Moffet, fro do.
Schr. Eagle, Dolton, do.
Brig Maria, Holmes, of Frederickfburg:
and a number of northern .reffels.
Spoke—On the 14th September, in la£.
34» 3°> 74» th* trig Chance, capt.
I from the cape bound to Baltimore $
the drig had been ashore on the Caico's,
but got off with the loss of two anchors, 1
cable, and 300 bags of coffee.
%* A special Meeting of the
felea aad common Councils of the Cityi of
Philadelphia, is to be held at the Pennsylvania
Hospital on Tuesday the 16th itift. at 9 o'clock
in the morning on business of Importance, at
which place it is hoped the members will at
tend—the Hospital being clear of the prevailing
fever.
FRANCIS GURNEY, Prefideut
• V of the fel<-<sl cauncil.
SAMUEL HODGDON, Presi
dent t»f the common council.
Se l"- ** djt_
Bank of North America,
September Bth, liQl.
ON Monday next the Notice,, for all Notes 01
B.lls payable at tlji.Bank,which fall due on that
and the enfmrjg 6 days will be served, on the Pay.
ers: And the like Notices on every Monday till
the further orders of the Dire&ors:— Perfmu w lfl,.
i. g to deposit Nates or Bills %■ Colleflioa, which
arc to fall due within the week, themfjfves
andenake to give notice to the Payers. dtf
Thomas Armat and S6n,
V OF PHILADELPHIA,
TNFORM their cliftomers aad the public, the*
X have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, they have their store open in
the city. A t either place their frisnds can be sup
plied,' and their orders carefully attended to
By the Cumberland, from Hall, they have re
ceived a handsome allotment of ai tides, foitablf
to the approaching fcafon ; and expedl to add to it
by other fall (hips.
Should the sickness prevail in the central part of
the city, that branch of their business will be re
moved to Germastown.
''' commyntcaticn by poll is open and re*
gnlar as usuaL
»*P I - 1- a fImported In the (hip Man Chester,
Benjamin Shi;well, Master,
From Bouri'.eaux/.'.nd for laic by the fubl'criber,
No. 11 Walnut Stiett.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~l
Xrifh market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do* J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS rod. SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter ca&3
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufliels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be fdld at Pablic Vendue,
To the iiigheft bidder, al the hoOfe of Mr.
Willjam Evans,, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, 011 the 25th
d. I.}' 1 .}' of o<Stober next,.at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter'i-town and Weflmintter,
commonly' called Little Wiiichclfer, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidorabie part of
thef: lands) the tra<st begins about 17 miles
sunn Baltimore, within a t'*w hundred yards
of fai>l Ueiller's-town, and extends to the dil
tauee of about tv/enty-three nides from Balti
more, and lies 011 the main falls of Patapfu o
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trafts of one hundred and fifty to
■thi'ee hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tradl,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr. fs.
Aiso
/* trad of seven hundred acres of
L.-.J, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenihtirg, esteemed very j?ocd for G'afs.
Richard Ponfonby,of BUdeniburgh, will lhew
this land to any person purchafe.
also,
A tract of land of about three hun-
tliirty acres, within about two miles
and a half o the Prelident's house in the l'ed4-
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a Une
high prtSfptdt, fron which may be fceH the
city of VVafiiington, Bladcnfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Putomac river. Mr. Richard Ponlon
by, of Bladenfburg, will also shew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. Ihe terms will
be made known on the diy of sale.
May 8 * w.;m
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxesof Spices, consisting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by
WILLIKC-S & FRANCIS,
Penn. street.
nay 30 dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his prsfent house, has
been under thenecelfityof poflponinguutil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
. law books is now arranged and ready fur ia.'e, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
freence he has experienced for iev;ral years past.
Catalogues, combining the moll varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito thi. country, are printed
and will Be delivered on application.
June 27. aaw 6w
City Comm'ijp.oners' Office,
June 22, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance ft-om the feleiS
and common councils, palled the 2id day of
May last, appointing the city ratHmiffioners,
and prescribing their duties, ftdlion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five dittrifls,
«*eh to be under tbe fuperintendance of one 1 of
the city commiflioners, v hois to be individually
for the cleaniinefs of thelfame, and
are as follow.
Driftridl No. 1. From the south fide of Ce
dar-ftceet, to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
derthe superintendence of Nathan Boys.
a. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-flreet, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to tbefouth
fide iof High-street, under the superintendence of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vme-flreet, under (he super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecleapingof High-street to be in common.
A ftatcd meeting of the city commiflion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
Julv 14. eoim
Stands for Draymen, SsV.
In pnr/uance of an Ordinance from the Seleft and
Common Councils, bearing date tbe 22d daj of
ytpril, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City Commfffionen, <Sc. tie P.- the I sth.
following places are fixed upon by the
said City CommifTidners for Stands fsr
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-llreet, on
both fides. ■»
Saflafras, High.Chefnut and Walnut-fttrcets,
eastward of Front-street, on the no. th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftrcat, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith's p'ley ■
Front-street, from opposite to Black Hoffe al
ley to Hamilton's ftorcveaft fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stumper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ltrce., weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, call of Front-flreet.
Spruce, Pine and South Itreets, east of I roat
street, south 1-de.
Dock-flreet, bet ween W'alnut-ftreet and the
Bag stone crossings, east Me, opposite George
Orkley's.
Second-street, between SafTafras and Vine
streets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Cbefnut to Mul
berry streets.
SafTafras-ftreet, from Third to Futirth-llrcet,
east fide.
No dray or liorfe to stand within ten feet of
FOR HACKNET COACHES.
Pine-ftroet, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
between Chefnat and Walnut
north fide, between Third and
Fourth streets.
July 14- wwfcfim
A Literary Treat.
JuJl pybiifhed, handfomsly printed on writing
paper y price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
JL a sequel to the hiiiory of John Bull,, the Clo
thier—'ln aferiesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
[ tranfa<sViotis in America.
| The, following, extra& from the Clavis Allegorica,
(Hews thu principal chara&ers that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of fccgiatid
His Mother, thejCVurchof England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Siller Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
Has Mist; eft>, the Old tion
His ■«w*tVife, the National Rcprefentation
l.ord Strut« the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Fjrog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The F<w esters, the United States of Amerha
Robert Lumber, NeW-Hampfnire
John Codline, MaWachufetts
Humphrey Plowshare, Conne&icut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Illand
Peter Bull Frog; New-York
Julius Csefar, New-Jerf«y
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
,-Caflimar, Delaware
His Grandson, George Waihingc'oa
.Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
George Trully, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife. Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves f
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
This popular entertaining fatiricalhifto
ry of Amdrica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel-
Knap. It hasagrjeat (hare of originality and a
bottnds with genuine humour* It is continued
| down to the present time, and chara&erifes those
' late political tranfaAions which have caused so
Lmucli uneasiness in America,
j Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, Noi 16,
' South Second Street, and No. 50, ftjeet.
June a 6. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latefl London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers.
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the Hte arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring injport*-
tiou, confiding of a variety of the latefl and moll
approved I.aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most extenOve collection cv-.
er offered for sale in thin country. They thei efore
bep leave to notice, that from the nature of their
connexions in Dublin, they are enabled to fell lrilh
editions (a« they have hitherto at the very
lowefl prices. The following are among the latefl
publications.
Vefey, jun'rt Reports in Chancery, 2 r
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardivick# ; Floycr's Procters
Pra<stice in the Eccleflaftical Couru; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the feourt of King's Bench in Pcrfonal A <3ions, %
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, IJ vols. London edi
tion.
, H. and P. Rict expert ta receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports', the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 26.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubfcriptioniwill continue
to be rereived, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propcfalj, until the
work is ready for the Ivbfcribera.
July 18 ■ 23wtf
Printed Calicoes.
No. 8 Chef nut-tyreet,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Heatly aflbrted,very low on
(hort credit.
March 6. * §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
. uguft 2. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Suippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE pablic are requeued to take notice, that
the partnership which has far some time fub
fiiUd bctweaH Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved : but, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circutnflantially infermed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
'he perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedlly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other pcifon in the prolecutton of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to JJhippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on thr firft effort in
this business, VC illiam Geer, inttonjuntflion with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Wi-.mer, is determined
toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic canpofTibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
those wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take tbeir feats at
George Weed's, the sign ol the White Ht>rfe,
Markitt Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The 'art as hitherto
eflabliOied.
For tlic. further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will lljrt every Wedricfday from the house
of Samuel Elder', in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thence and arrive at Hairifburg
every Saturday, so tkat passengers deflintd for
Z.ancafl'ror Philadelphia, may prbceed oa Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
l.ancafler. Jan. 27, 1797.
N. 13 Thi-. Line ef Stagey starts from ths
house of William Ferrac, in L mcafter, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clo:k, pro
ceeding to the westward; and Irom tile house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, 011 the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from tljence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour kern Philadel
phia.
City of Wafliington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement n f the FedeVal City.
A laagnificent dwelliiig-houfe So,Oobdollars,
Si cash 30JO00, are 50,000
r ditto 15,000 8c calt 15,00® 40,000
1 d.tto 15,000 & cajh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 8c ca(h 10,000 xo,ooo
i ditto j,OOO 8c cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 io.ooo
1 cadi prize of ro,ooo
» do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
10 do. 50Q * - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
»oo Wo. 50 - - 10,000
4<x> do. 45 - 10,000
1,000 do. »o -
15,0'0e do. 10 - 1519,000
16.739 Prizes.
33,161 FlUnks.
5c,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To flvcjur those whs may take a quan
tity of Tickets.theprijeof 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but on* :
And approved notes, fccuring payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be. received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ereited in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
fc'.edled for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it i- prppofed to erect
two centreand r our corner buildings as soon aspof
fibie after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
the manner deferibed in the fchcme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to defray theneceiTary expenses of print
ing,, &c. and the furpMftNill be made a part of
the fund intended for Univerfity, to
be creeled within the citjWr Walhington.
The real fecurvtiesgiven for the payment of the
Brizes, \m held by tb; President and two DireA
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lattery. •"
SAMUEL BLODGET.
pickets may be had at the Ba..k oi Colsm
bia ; of James Weft 8c Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Boston ; of Jobs Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard W«Ils, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
From the Otfego Herald.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination of men in this
county have undertaken to enrich th«m
felves, by fabricating titles to fundr jr valuable trails
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
traits of ls'nd large funis of money have been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers ■
It is therefore just that public information fhonld
be given, to the end, that the injured may seek re
dress while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have benn difcovcred are Tru
man Hstrrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several other! who go under fi&itious names. It is
luppofcd that th; lands offered fcr sale on those fa
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we have adual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and 12, Otfego patent,
thousand acres each, the aflual property of William
Dcllwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Cnanninnr, now of Paris, and janies Averill
and other., ot tint State. There is foine grounds
to fuppofo that the lands of Richard Welis and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia,'are under their
management.—The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public agfduft purchasing those lands, as also to de
prive thdfe men in future from ipipofiqg on indivi
duafs, which their education and address have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a shopkeeper of some note in this tountry.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view the wickadnefsof those men, which wkm
the public have perused, will indu«e them to ex
cufc the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July *Bth, 1757.
1 Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
was theproperty of William T. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others ; arid further the said Joseph
and Tniman did pcrfuade me to do this against mv
inclination, which was made 0114 011 the icth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the nam* of
Pardon Starlts to that deed was a fiSitious namo,
there being 110 such person there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 1797. came perfonalljr before
me, Thomas Kelly, thcfubfcriber to the above af
fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains noth
ing but thrtru'h.
ELIHU PHfNNEY, Jtifticc of the Peace.
On the 18th July, 1797, came before me Jacob
Kibby, a |)erlon by me well known and worthy of
good credit, vrho on his solemn oath did fay, that
two of lie parties abovementioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, feme time in the
winter of 1796.r0 make them a deed for two thou
sand acrns of land iu the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a share of the profits, on thu
sale of said lands, for His so doing ; and that thay
made application several times for the fame pUrpo f,
which serviCes this deponent as often refufed, de
claring to them thut he had no right to lands, and
coulddo no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related .vrong his
friends several times, previous to making this affi
davit. JACOB KIBBEY.
Sworn before me,
ELIIIU FkINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
Aug. 3. I»W4W.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPEDiVom the service Jf the fuhll riber,
on the 19th instant, A netrro man by the
name of DICK, about tweuty-five j sars of age,
and five,feet nine or ten inches hign ; by trade
a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk woik
man. His countenance is very good—When
spoken to, he converfet with ease and confi
dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchased
the said fellow of Mr. Dubney Minor, in whose
name he his betn ndvertifed iti the Richmond
newfpapfrs. Puringhis last runaway trip (last
fumfmerj he was employed a considerable length
of time, by some person near Dumfries, from
which eirctimflance, I conjecture, he has taken
another' nothern route I forewarn all persons'
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, ami mallersof vcflelsand others, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
mile* of this city; and an additional sum, in
proportion to the distance he may be brought,
o.' the trouble andcxpencethe apprtheqder may
be at, in bringing him to this place-.
, AUG; DAVIS.
N.B. His apparel was of the usual negro kind,
but he had more cloath* than is cu-ftomary for
them to poflefs.
A.D.
Richmond, June'ix> i*97-
, Will lie Landed,
From oa board the fliip Aftive, Capt. JBi-Aiß,from.
Hamburgh,
ao bales white Russia cleafi Hemp
a calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth fbreet, No. 34.
Time 16. 1 i
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 fouph Secor.d-flreet.
TICKETS ill the Canal Lottery,-Non, wfcich
communced drawine the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as che drawing advance:*, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn ticjsets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the last da> of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Walhington, No.
a, and Paterfon Lotteries. <
Also, tickets forfalc in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin j
drawing iu the course of the Cummer.
The business of a Broker in ail kinds of Sfeock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- Jcc. tranfa&ed with the
utnood attention.
June a tuSrf
Erfkine's Vjew of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40(South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with Trance.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 ?
STA TE TRIALS.
Sold by W. Younc, Bookseller, No. 5», South Se
cond-ftrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining th« impeachment, trial, and acqtA
al of Francis Kopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholson, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. You wo has for sale, a general assortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well af!orted,and entitled to the drawback if
axported. July 7. —*
SUBSCRIBE R. having been appointed by
8.. the Envoy Extraordinary and Mioifter Pleni
potentiary oi liis Biitannic General Agent
tor affixing British creditors, and such particular a
gents a* they may specially authorize, in prosecuting
their claims before the cammiflfxoners for carrying in
to effett the lixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between his Britannic A ajejly and
lie United States of America, hereby gives notice that
he has opened his office at hit house the south ealV
corner of Chefnut and fifth flrcets, Philadelphia,,
where he is to receive all claims or inftru&ions
tor claims with the vouchers rfud documents thereof,
for the purpose 0/ bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the boaid may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the intcreft of all concerned,
that the several claims be so dated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the neceflity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from periods residing at adiftance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the i
dirc&ion chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and managcment)'thlt all
such claims ought in particuWto set forth—
lft. The proper defcripilon and Gtnation ct the
creditor or claimant, «/id original debtor, refptS
ively.
«d. The date and nature of the original contractor
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant was prevented or >mpcded,
by the provision, operation or defeat of law, the
decifionsand pra&ice of courts, or restraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
queflion«
4th The loss and damage incurred or sustained,
in confcquenoe of such impediments, whether the
lame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufes impairing
the value and fecurityof the debt, which wouid not
have so operand if such impediments had notexillcd.
And sth The particular grounds a»d reafor.s on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that 44 by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the'ereditor cannot now obtain and a£iual!y
have and receive full and adequate compeafation" for
the losses and damages so fuHaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
ged that the several claims ought to be accompanied
andfupported by the affidavits of the claimants
( worn and regularly atteftcd, both as to the exiflencc
of the debts claimed, and such other circumfHnces
as may be within their own knowledge relpe&ively.
\tid wherever the claimants in ftatjngthe nature of
their evidence (which mult in every inllance be the
bed of whidh the cafe rs capable) have occafioA to
refer to the telHmony of witneffei» it will be propei !
to apprtfe the general agent of che names and places
of reftdence ot such witneffeeand the fattsto be cllf
blilhcd by their tellimony,
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia., June Brh. 1797- d
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vandeqmh**
Fimr,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phila
lade'phia, on the Ke\r York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premiCcs are i. large two ftary stone house Occu
pied as.a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame ftabfe with a good threshing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
man's feot, commanding a vitw of the Nefham
iny to itj/jun£lion wiih the Delaware, and thence
acrofij to the Jtrfey (hore. It has the privilege
©f one half the tor>ceived from the brklge.
For terms appl*. >0 the Sabfcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vav 24. . it-»wtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBKIDGE with m»ch pleas
ure.and rsfpefl, return I her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she hat received during four years relidence in
Philadelphia ; and jfiures her friends and. the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he ha.s made a fupenor arrangement for
the more, convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Kvery branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge ind masters excelling in their
refpeilive profcllionj. 1
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June 1797- Jirairf
The''fituation is perfeflly healtky ; aisdmade
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the hou.'e.
JuJ Publ'i/hed,
And to he had of MeflVs. I/obfjn, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in tie
city ,price one dollar, nvinty- five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the,
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June te. , * (t
Higgins* Specific v
FOB THB
PREVENTION AND CURE QFIIIS
YELLOW FEVER.
"C'V.ER since this dil'eafe ljvwit such ravage in lUis
1-t city and New-York, the author has turned his
attention to>itseauft« and cure.—The rplult of his
enquiries has convinced hitn that the real'on why so
few peifons recover from' its attacks, are fr«m its
not being well underwood, and the coufequent
wronor method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that the excessive lileedigrs and mercurisl reatmenU
of the Faculty r highly injurious, and that the on
ly ration*! mode of treatment is by the use of prop tr
«cids. Convinced of this he offers his Specific as *
certain remedy, if uit.J according to the directions.
To be had in bottles, at on<f dollar each, ot the
inventor Geo. fiiggins, Cherry Arret, two doors a
bove Ninth flrcet, {late manager of Jack/on and
Co's Medicine Wnrehoufe, London); by J.Lc
hiauc. No. 26, !■'/. Griffith, No. 17 7, T. Pcarte, No.
at, South Third street, T. Stiff, No. 55, New flreet,
near Vine •ftrett, and J. Sale:, No. 36, Race Wr<:ct.
Aug. 35. tuths
COUGHSrCOLD S, "a ST HMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wu. Griffiths, No. t j7,South
Sccpnd-i'reet, a frelh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge as a Botanist procured him
the appellation of the Ltansus of Britain) and is
•onfidered in England a? a certairicure for the above
complaints; it is alio of singular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
It may also Le had detail of W. A. Stokes, Noi
61, Scuth Second-street, and J~. Stiff, 55, New
ftrset, in bottles at 75 cenfs each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy eS»
fe6t of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to order a large
fupp'y, a part of which he has jull received.
3» lawjw
Injurance Company of North America.
THE Stockholders in this company are here
by informed, that, pursuant to the fifth
clause of their Charter, and at the rtqueft of a
"Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
proprietors of Six Thoufar.d Shaus, and up
wares," a-general meeting of thr Stockholders
will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
day the 2.5 th day of September next, at n
e'elock, A. M. for the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction ; and taking info
consideration such Regulations or Bye La-vs as
may be p/efented in conformity with the<Char
ter of Incorporation. ' •
EBEN. HAZARD, SeSry.
July to- w&ftSis
Public Notice is hereby given,
T -'HAT at juneterm, 1797, a petition wa*
presented to the Court of Common Pleis,
held at Yark Taw n, in the Statt of IVnnl'ylva
nia, at the instance ef James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loi deed rtiade by-a cer
tain Andrew Ilickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
James Morrifon, and John Samule, executors
to Hans Merrifon, deceased, .for fix hundred
' acres of Land, fitujte in Metulfen
town (hip, in 7 the county of York.-—All per
sons who have any objedlions to make to the ob
ject of the f»id petition are desired tp attend at
the Court House, in the town of York, 00 the
jth day o f Seplemher next, otlierwife tht*loft
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
July 18. eptS?
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gifford Dally, a mularto hoy about 17
years of age, a Him ligh< built a<stivo'follow, can
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance"; had on a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat. fine flioes &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, al>'«i:t 34 years of
age, five seer seven or eight inches high,a thick set
clunfy built f«ll©w, particularly about the breech;
had on a fai!or*s blue jacket lined with fwanikin,
dark striped vest, fufti*n trowfers high crowned
hat, coatrfe (hoes, See.; each of them ffcv£ral
ftiirtsand several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars wiil be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, or delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is ahout a year from Lewis
Town, in the County ofyiuflex, state ot Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31. mtu&fjw
To be SOLD or RENTED,
AL *.RGE 3 Story Brick Hdufe, on the
South tide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office!**
The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The House is not jslaftered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Hoiil'es. It is suitable for a large Manufactory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
pofieflion will be given.
Apply to No. 111, Chefnut-Street.
Anjr. at. cod^t.
Musical Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable graxd,
fid:-board, pier table and fquaxe piaco forie
mak.r from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for jhe«r liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his affinity and atrentit n to ev
ery branch of his bftfmefs, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newefl
and ntoft approved plans, with pedals, patent*
fweil, and French harp flop, which heflatteis
himfelf wjll L»e found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not fuperiorto any importr
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inllru
nfcfii purchased of him, Rot approved of
twelve months, he w ill exchange.
N. B. Ail kinds of Mwfical instruments ma^e t
uned, and with the greatest accuracy,
dil'patch, and on the molt reasonable term:, ic£
ready money only.
Second hand Piano Forte* taken in exchange.
May jpc2ra .
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from the fubferiber on tiie fee
ond day of this ifilt. J'.:!y, a Mulatto Man,
named Will Bewzer, about forty years of ago,
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky made ; had ou when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers
and jacket. It is probabie lie v/ill change his
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
said fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expeiSed he has
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State —Any person apprehending the feid fel
low, and securing him so that I can get him a
gajn, shall receive the above reward if taken
Out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in.
the county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
heme-
JESSE REED,
Quota Ann's County, Maryland.
July 3. wjt