of Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1622 j
SALES fiV AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS.
f Forenoon Edward Fox, No. g6,
Men'lay J . / outh Front-street,
> A.ternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6-j
Q. South Front-street.
f' —John Connelly, Old Cify
Tuefday< , 11 <*<<>«, Front-ftreet.
- J Afternoon—William Shannon,! No.
V. 183 High-ftrett.
IVcdnefday f Afternoon—Peter Benfon, No. 74
? fnuth Third-ftrcet.
Thursday ( Edward Fox.
(Afternoon—John Connelly.
triday I f 0> Bi>oon—William Shannon.
5 Aftern>)sn—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benton.
oales of Lumber, &c. \
WILL BE SOLD,
On 1, EDNESDAY, the infl. prscifely at 9 o'clock
in the morn-kg,
At C. Emlen's Lumber Yard,
In the Northern Liberties, near the Hay Scales,
All the Personal Property there
re-naming behmgmgtothe cftat.- of Caleb Erolcn,
dcceafcd, confining of the following vahiaWc
art.cJes, viz.
Several hundred of White Pine, Hemlock
a : . Oak Logs, to ho fold in lots of about three
thcu.'and feet each
C 1 1-2, 2, a 1-2, an J 3 inch Oak Planks alTart-
V cj, niofl of which are of the best fluff for
the life and building of Alios
" 1. aii.i 2 i-a inth White Pine Planks for
g quarter Docks
"g [ i-j to 4 inc!, Aft Planks
g Hemlock :'cantlin<f alWred
g Ti-t pieces Hemlock 30 l'c.t in leng h, .and s
c pieces t; feet
' hit j Pine Scantling, Maple Scantling
® Maple Bo .rds, Quarter Rails
g. Spinning Weel StufT, Whale Pieces 40 feet
u . I,)r, K ,
0 A valuable assortment of White Oak Flitch ■
H Stuff
,L And several feparatparcels of old Plank, &c
ALSO,
Iwo large copper Stills, with
V/orms, Heads, &c,
- A good sorrel Horse—an ol V Ciiaife and Sulk'ey
A large Spinning Wheel and Reel k
A number of still house Jarrs, two log Trucks, a
cutting Box and Knife, a large Teed Box, a
fmJl .inch r, a Scale with Beam, and a number r
cf ;uio. Weights, a good Mill Saw, a writin;;
lie#: with sundry articles in Corr.pting-fconfe,
two pair ef good Piliol-, a parcel of old Ifon,' ~
Cables, Ropet, &c. I ike-wife,
The ivheel works of a Horse
Saw Mill, complete and in good order.
Such pcrfonifa'; may be desirous of purchasing J
arty part thereof, ar- at liberty to view them 011 '■
tbe prcnaifes, where a r.-an will conftantl attend «
every *i y preyiou : 'Othefale. Carpenters, Lum
ber Merchants Builders, ike. may have a faVora
b,e opportunity rf purchaung 1 umber, &c. to
more advantage at thus Tale than elfewhert, which
no doul t wilj| oromaai their attention. R
I'urchafers to a larger atnoutit than one hundred „
dollars may be accommodated wichfixty days cre
dit oil a,. proved indorfeil notes.
■jold by Order of
[AMES VAUX, and
CHARLES PLEASANTS, 1
Ati-r-ryt '••</,& to Maßv Fmiin, juls Extcttrin. I
Footman Co. Autfrs. ' |
nwemler t.j. ■ -eott djt 1;
Sanuiel & Ahers r'lflu r, Z
APJ-. now OPT - INd, | fa
At their War,.houfc, No. 27, Dock Street, a freIII J
alTortmcr.t of Woolen and orhtr }'.ooi3s, fu.table )o I
the fe.Uoi), received by the late arrivals from Eiir- I
land. ( 13 i
Tle\ bave also far Salt. j
Liftdn -s u
TenerilTe ( „ !
Sherry, and > hTpipCshhds. and e[uart€r cafitv a
I'ort Wines, J /
AfTorted queen's ware in crates, Stc.
io<h nio' diw^taw^w.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE, J
No. ii- Walnut-ftrret, *'■
INFORMS those who with to recur to the pnly *■
means of bctoming perfect in the French Lan
guage,that he has jull rpened his Lir.aAtjr, con-
Cfting of upwards of izjo volumes, the bc.l caU
eulated to afford eiliier uftful inftrudlion, or plea
sure. Ihe ee'nditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
hi toiva.
N. a. All tranflation9 from and into the French,
Englifli and Spaniih Languages, executed wkh ac- «
curac) and dispatch. coxm nmi.'.j. V
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL preftnt! his
molt relpe.ilful corapiiments<a hi 9 form
er employers sad the citizens in general, and re
turn 1 his moll thanks, for.the very
bountiful encoura jemeuthe has expetienced for P
these twenty-five years takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school will be
opea'd on Wednesday the inliant, at his By
Elegant Ball Room,
in Soutli Fourth-Street, between Chefnwt and
"Valnut-ftreeU. To begin at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and & in the evening for young
gentlemen. *
O' Prarflifing Balls will commence on Tues
day, 6th December, anti be continued every
Tuesday, during the season. R-
Nov. 17. aawtf. p
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattilias
15rown Mollinds v
White Sheetings I
Dowlafies go-
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Sumoufes r u n
lllai k Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glafies, in
in. cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
not'ember 6. eo^jw
Teas of superior quality.
80 chests fme'Hyfpn
zj c>»fts yrittng Hyson
2 chelts Jmperijl barr
For Sale, corner of Second and Pine ftreetn, bv clr g
C. haight. '
novcniLcr 11. C
PHIL AD R L'P HI A: MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 20, i 79 7.
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very firit quality, in pmes, hhds. and
quaiter caflcs, just landed fj;om the lp,if Etlvvard.
from Madeira, and for sale by
S 6, JOHN CRAIG,
No. ia, Doek-ftregt.
. 6-J WHO HAS FCK CHAPTER,
- i£ y CHARLOTTE,
55 t- Burthen about ijoo barrels,
' j u p t hove down and put in com
plete order, and now ready to receive a cargo.
74 Also, For SALE ,r CHARTER,
Eurt!;en about iSsc barrels.
<>• 3awtf.
Wanted to Charter,
° ° nC r * : an^°^a back
Ixk -icJlllsyA fall failing- Velfel. of the hur-
J then of 6 or 700 barrels, for terms, apply to
Benjamin Morgan, No. 170, South Front street,
or to ROBERT ANDREWS.
No. 86, South Wharves,
pg tmmter 10. 5
i."- Philip Nicklin "d" Co.
C HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stoues on Walnut flreet Wharf,
Ha\-annah Sugars, white and brown
25 hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 pi-ccs of broad Nankeejn
or Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chefli
Quitkfilver in tubs
or Madeira Wine in pipes and hegfbeadi
reneriffe.Winc in_pipe. c
Old ted Port XVise inhog%eads
Sail j Ported, No. I to S •*"
a 8 cases of Manchefier Goods, confiding of Dimities,
Mufl'ncts, Gingham*, Thickfetts, Corduroys, Sic. !
joo crates Queens' Ware, afl»rted
Nails, alforted
ct Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in calks
b A quantity of writing Slates, slate LikStands, &c.
ICO quarter calks Guu Powder
c They have alfofor SALE or CHARTER,
\ The Ship
1 HAMBURG PACKET, (
Burthen 310 tons, coppered to 1
the bends, and completely fi/ted.
Thejhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a n
t good velfel, and completely fitted. ni
a The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
r rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
The whole of the abdve vellels to be fcen at
._ Walnut street Wharf. § „ rj ic.
for Sale or Charter,
t The Snow
•SM%, good hope,
; V/i.l carry about 1100 barrel.,ani
1 " --'T/j is ready to take in a cargo. For terms :•
1 apply to X
Pragers & Co. q
No. Xji, Second-street.
Who have for fak*—prime St. Croix Sugar and *1
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriflfe whu;. fe 1
j Novemi>cr 7. dtf. N(
T'or Hambnrgh,
The Ship
WILMINGTON, P e
• Captain Hiloan ;
A - St: "' ncll . '»ft failing, Phi- boi
v. L \ Jujflphja hitilt ve.Tel, of
liv* oak and cedar, i* now in corr plete order, and
will fail with all pollible speed, having great part of
her cargo already eng'ged. For freight or paf
{ sage (Iwving exeellenc accom-modations) apply to '
, ; the captain on board, or to "
■ : Summer I Js 5 Brown. «■
Who have on hand, x '
j Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo- co.
I lafljs, and a few* th»ufand excellent Cor °,"
I dago, including feverul Cables of 8£ & n inches.
novemlicr 3. tuthAstf ,
for London,
; -■ vi J- wflliaWpenn,
James Jofiah, Mqfter, (4
p- • vV' fail with all conven- J~j
' W ient eipedition For
Freight or Paflage, apj-ly to the Captain, er to .
JeJfe C 3" Robert Wain. II
Ofl. 31. ft t
For Ldridon,
THE SHIP
jean,
Daniel M'Phcrfon, Majbr.
1 O iail with all convenient fpetd-—?uconUdera
blc part of her cargo being already engaged.
For terms of Freight or Paf%e', appiy tp - x *
Rofs & Sim/on.
*:■
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, fre-n Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglheadi, 1
For fate by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALS, Si
Ths Ship 1 ai
J M 1 t r. 1
Four barrels burthfn, —-
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years eld. r-T-i
LIKEWISE,
The Schooner Industry, iWe
Burthen 800 barrels, reauly also to receive a car- war <
go—rand a quantity of this
Jamaica Rum and Sugars, 1
Just landed from the above velTels at South l}reet Man
wharf. ' eoim. 1 Nov. r.
_____ O
For Charter, :
THE SHIP
trfSvC J ohn & ulkle y, H
Samuel Volaris, Maftcr. reafo
"PHIS veifel is built of live oak
j ce4iir, of about 30CO
barrels burthen, ahdriady td receive on board a A
cargo. ii
7# Robert Wain.
oa. 31. <j Qc
By
John Fenno, ,N» 119 Cbefnut Street. •
1,11 1 - - ■
nc > For Londonderry,
."d ' THE bp.igantjne
-*ss■ ffjw
t. Sv. l 'i. i .a\V Mafier.
! rotffSood Wffel. about two ■
hundred tons, to fail with ill convenient l'peed, a
great fpart of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing a3 (i For freight or paf
re * ftge, to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Lan kult/rjer's wharf.
Who wanti to Charter.
A Vessel of dbout three {hundred tons;
> twv «g. ' £
?• tor bavatinah, in Georgia, v
* THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
lir- A new vessel - With «ce!lent
r " ' aceoitn»tnlatiOM for pnffengers ,
Sails on the i®th of December. For Freight or -
• Pafiage, apply r« ROSS Es* SIMSON. /
IVbo have t» difpofr o/*,
A fma'l invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
_ INDipO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD. e
novtmitr 18. s K '
■ 1 w
t or Hamburgh. "
n The MARY,
I't i EK York, mailer, _
\ Lying at Ruffel's wharf, near Pin
ftrect, is ww ready so take in 3
■>• • *T?v»Cargo, and w iH fail hi tta days.
Far Freight, or Palfage, apply to
GVRNEY & SMITH. _
y»v.?iN:r :6 jf ,l t f
Rundle y I-EECri',
e. Have jufl. teceived, and hay for Sale, at Ko. 9, T
Walnut flreet, ] oi
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT 1,5
Do. bea honfe CO aL3 ' |u
c. Queens* WARE in cases, aflorted , J*' 1
Bcurdcaus: ERANDY of an excellent quality 1
Do. CLARET in cases, do. ™ c
THFY : 'AVI ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER, ""
PEGGY, -
a Burthen 125 tqps, in excellent condition, and JT
may be sent to sea with little expence or delay. ne>
LIKEWISE, Stc
THE BRIO wa
'' WILLIAM, £
Burthen 101 tons, j OI
"ovsmber 16.
For Sale or Charter,
j -jJp'JIkW ABIG AI L, sot
(Lying at Morris' Wharf, near ifii
the Drawbridge) f er
SHE is a (launch, well fitted veflel, almost new,
burthen n« ton», and is supposed will carry
1 II or iaco barrels, and fails fall. If not fold iH a t
few tlay», (he will take Freight for Boflon, Salem,
Ncwboryport, Portfmoth, or the Weft-Indies.—
•Apr'y to WHARTON S3* LEWIS. V/
No. 115, S. Front-Street.
IVboJjtvefor fate, I K I
Madeira Wine, Jamaica Rum, Brandy, Juni-
per Berries, and 70 barrels 6f Liver Oil. to :
£5" A (|usntity of Potatoes felling from on the
. board said birig at i«. 6d. per bushel. con
r nontrmler IJ. § No
| For Sale or Charter, *{J^
The faft failing brig 6t t
Brothers, by ',
jTiT»- Lying at Curling's wharf,
an excellent Angle dcck'd veHel, burthen about r
1800 barrels— not twelve months old, and in
compleat crtier. For terms apply to the mailer
on board, or to
Jofcpb Anthony Iff Co. _l
\ diw. 'io
For Liverpool,
j. •» - The Ship
CLOTHIER, XT
NathaniclD. Gardner,mafltr,
V » inlt. For freight or pa(-
fap-e apply to the Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf,
or to . \ % JAMES OiiDlMvN,
nov » dtf No. 41, N. Front-ftrcet. Anc
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
AiuiJeaMx Erandj
Tenn iJJ'e Wine ,
Molajjes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo f , ,
Ravens Duck and one bog/bead of, pant 0
bru/hes.
N. & J. Frazer.
A r o. 95, Sontb Fro/ft Street. | y f e i
Nov - ' h "' the (
ROSS Ss* SIMS ON, Br
HAVE FOR SALE, To >
A few bales Baftas, Goffas, and °. f M
tlTl
a quantity of Bengal COT TON / ,
Bengal bUGAR, in tags and boxes p"ii'
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, C RUM. a
and liengal ) vcr *
300 calks RICK. rnd cet l 1
A parcel of ship building RED CEDaS, tl,e a
0(3. -»7. 5 Calct
———— J
James & Richard Smith, —-
TAKE the libery of informing their friends
and the public, that they have remrved their And !
| llore to No. 54, South FrontJlrcet y nextdeor to Ed- }> J,
Ward Fpx's .motion Room, whero they have at Ni
this time for fa!e', a laro-c and general aJTortnient cf t . or
European ijf Eajl India Goods, n
Many of which arc just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, Sic. &c.
°rt.* 7 . s ,„y
and c:
Samuel Pleal'ants & Sons, a-
A T o. 74, South Sccond-f.rat, •'*
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS, ,( i ue '
which they are now opening for sale, on p 4 '
reasonable terms. Oift 17. 4® ' ar
Wanted,, to Hire, Tb
A I.argo an J convenient HOUSE, in or near offcal
the icntrcof the city—for .vhich a gectrous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, on of th:
more for a longer term. Inquire ps ths Piintcr.
OA. I?. 9«tf Au,
, NOTICE,
r H ® of the poor particularly roqueft
X /!i peiibns inJehtid for poor taxes to pry
the .3rric to the College H when called 03. Tin
after °" in S to Ute caiwiity,
the C,ard trust. will induce the pciions indebted,
ut two •to attend to this revert. '
:i By ft-rder of th^Bo?irH,
>rV , P , ETER MIERCKEN, Pr.-Jfdcnt.
>r pal- Southv/ark, Nov. 17.
EVENING SCHOOL^
'"/• t' T ?
N . Lewis
INFORMS the Public, that \m JSvtnmr
s Wlil °pep on Monday next, for the
winter season, at No. 201, Arch Street.
__Nov 1 i 6. « d3t>
WANTED to REXT,'
A Coach House and Stable,
client F°f fc , ur , I!cr/; " i ' |0 the neighborhood of IVth
■ecs- T: U ' h llreelt to Mr. Ilv/.Ms'Jt Ho
l.t or h fttget .- JX 16-
'N- A young Ma n, is acquainted
with accounts, wiUm eniplovment. He will (tire
fecunty fc.r any ttvft .epofcri in him, and rec«m
---• menJat ions if retired, should ofFcr
where extra of at'endrnce are necessary, he
would have no c-Hjediph—a great salary would not
b="peacd_ ? . hue diredLsd to B. U. and left at
Y } this oliice, will'be attended to.
* n ,
P t ' n - St. Croix Sugar iff Rum,
ayj 3 For Sale .by
JOHN NLXON iff Co.
H. oa - " f >- iHvv.
!iL-. A T O 7 I C A.
0.9, ihe holders of certificates of a
loan to ihe exiled citizens of tlie State of South Ca
rolioa and Gesrgia, under an aSnf Cqngrefs 23d
. July, 1781, are informed, that by lodging the fame I
with George Simpfon, Cashier of the Bank of the <
United btates, they will be enabled to receive pay
ment ol principal and interest, asfoon as the certi*- -
ficates can be forwarded to Charleston for fettle- -
ment, and orders received for their difcharg-e.
November r. v
No T I <TK " 1
1 A. IX P err ° m cr " lccnit 'l are hereby notified,
and J. X. t hat the fnljfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for.,
warded tbem under cover of a letter addrefled to
John Anflcy,of London, by the ship Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this port in June last for Lon
don. But that ship having been captured on her
1 panage and sent to France, the above letter and in
clofure have failed in their deftinatiou.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four shares, dated January 1 ft, 1797, and
■ear issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot-
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
nj ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
j H a Philadelphia, november 8. 2aw6w T*
Notice to Creditors.
WHBKEAS Jofiah W. Gibbs and William p
Gibbs, did on the 9th day of June last, as
sign to the fubferibers, all their property for the j
ini- benefit of their creditors, this is to give notice
to all the creditors of the above firm, tha' >ll 01
on their books, as well as the statement of their
concerns, are lorlged with John D. Blanchart],
? >O. 6, South Third Street, for their mfpeftipri,
and also the (iifcharcc which is to be signed by B
»H th' fe creditors w ho wilh to receive th« bene
fit of said assignment.
All peiTons indeb;ed ro the said firm, are herr
> by ootilred to pay their refpedlive debts to the
irf, fe'J Jobn D illanrliard, wh.o is fully authorized
, ut to receive and ferr!e all their accounts,
in 1 JOHN D. 15I.ANCHARD.
ler JAMRS VANUXEM.
A. BU'ILER.
Nov. 13. y mwf.it.
'io Ue/ilkmen who intend /pending '
■the XYifiter in the City.
ROOMS 'to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
„ of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
' ' agreeahle—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. Oa. 37 dtf
lf ' In the Prqfs,
_ And speedily will be publifhcd by William
Young, No. 52, Second, the corner of
Chefnut Street,
A VIE IV
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftabliftied in tha elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M.D.
\\ ith an attempt to correal fonrie important er
rors of tharwoik, and cases in illuflration, chief
ly fe!e<sUd from the records of their prafticc, at
the General Hofp tal at Calcutta,
Br IViLii.iu Tates Iff Chas. Maclean. ,
To which is fubj»ined, a Treatise on the aflion l= rt
J of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica- cet
tioa for the cure of diseases of indireil debility _f
Andadifiertation on the fogrces of Epidttnicand.
Peliiientialdifeafes; in whichisattcmptedtoprove
by a numerous induction of fa;!ls, that they ne- Ab
ver a rife from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain slates, or certain vicissitudes of
the atmofpliere, by Charlks Maci.fan, of 0
Calcutta.
- OA- ;r- Ji2t " r
Js . Just published, ~~ In
ir And to be fold at the Bcokfiores of H. & P.
'i'ee, No. 50, Markit-ftreet j J. Ormrod, Lat.
lt No. 41, Cbefm/t-ftreet, and W. , Young,
:i < orner of Chefnnt and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveying; T
IN WHICH IS CONTAINFD, <
1. Decimil fraelions, in a plain, concise, Ijn '
_ and easy manner. F sr *
2. Theextraflion of the square root.
3. Plain re&angular and ob- r . t / p '
. lique. • Mot
' 4. An exa£t method to cast up the contents,, ]
3 of lards. ) }
5. Field furveymg.
The whole being performed without the use
r offcaleand compafies, on a table of logarithms. G f t |
s In which is given feme accruer of the variation .y
1 of the needle, and the causes of its attrition. wilT
By SAMUEL f.KJORK. cash
x. jaw a.
Aufuft i
Gardeners take notice 1
-rr T W r *' S " io - ,n htoMi - an<! ««w of
•H,;. , . l '-' cr ß " jropofes covin: icon, and
mt'y v < f ! t' l l^ Uant - lt L ° f eXC>lU ' nt C " b l-Wsand other
> te j' l;ct ' H,> : w "h » number <>f y®uo# tret, hi ths '
' f i°7 £ r cn th,ra at I>rK 'Sate ; and if uo »
. .fold.bef-.re Saturday, the. 18th inft. at e oYtock
j" a ' tirn °o", they then will.be put vhj atl Jub
• lie v endue, on the premii'es.
-- j * he Garden is l ° be l"f, and imrne
d.ate poMon given, for the rtntof which apply
to John Ln tlb, no. 4 0, north Sixth street.
JOHN COLLIER-.
»■ vvmUcr I «, ■ #
~ ~TO BFTI7ET, ~
A fpaciom dry floored Cellar,
at the N. E. comer of 4 tfe and Arch-flreets.
-• W - '?• v_ v 'tl^t
A* EMO VA L 7
9 Maurice Moynihan, '
">d . U ' FORMS J l '' Wends cm! "the public,' that h*
rem< "jed Ins Store o>° China, GlMi, Onreni
, ve Ware, and Dry Goods, from No 3l Korh Sc
■rn. coi.d, to h.,. 7 , North Street, north tad
7 voro-"lf y A,kT ' where he the fa
ht voi Oi iiiS former cu.rormrs,
r JlrJ.' Cfat " rut U P vv;,h " re « tho shortest
novemiirr %.
J 7 lft Publ'i/hed, and no-zu Selling, ~
By BENJAMIN DA-VIFS
At hi, florjf-SroRK, No. 68, High-s'treet
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY*
ANNVA LZSG IST R UNITED STATES
, for the year 17c; s '
Containing complete and corretf )Wcf the Execu-
P five, I egiflative and luilier,!"*
; a . DjiPSARTMEN IS of government,
„1 And V' ar,et >'. of table,, ncceflary to £-
»« £ /"vTv"" T* 7 Sta ' e ° f th = Utuoa
h? rw <™° tanHfimc £n <ra -»i„ v ,
y- one r " , wh " h » derive of a meLcho'v' fen.
TV oa rß'. CCUrr Ur,ng the Amcric »
Landing this day,
From on board th« fclioWr Two Friends, Daa
d s„UI ' e i Mafler '
d, 8o hhds. and I t . r, T ti. w
<• u pipes j Jamaica RUM,
for sale by
to George Latimer & Son.
, t# uovemher 9. -
For the SubicribiT^
1- , No. Sj, South Third flreet,
A few caflcs of liigh proof Brandy
60 Tierce, fre(h Rice
40 Boxes of (. hocolate
d A J, ar?C q °, f a(r ° rted window S h fs> lßi
a JOO pieces fail cloth, N O . ito 3
Uaven, Duck, Mace and Gum S^egal.
NB An » ar n Uel 2™'
_ "*«•£?*
Landing,
" Fr ° m 00 bo " d ' he ft iP ■Edward,,, Walnujf
c ftrcet Wharf, « *
e London particular Madeira Wine
II of a fupcrior quality, For Sale by the fubferifcer.
r , Robert Andrews.
» nevrmber 2.
; , for sjle, ~——
By the Sobscriber, at hi. Store, No. ; 5 , So .tk
Watef-ftrfiet,
A general affortfe®nt of Chin*
e Ware
1 Black and coloured Sattins
Do - do. LateilriHg,
130. d». Handkerchieft
Do - do. sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
I.ontr and fbort Naskeen,
Quicksilver, in tubs^
( Holland Gin, io pipes
Aflortcd Glass Ware, in cases
Whjte and brown Havanna Segars, J,, bo«e»
MolafTcs, in hogfiieaeh
St Crcix Rum and s«gar, in dot
London particular Madeira W 7 irfe
Sherry and Malaga Wi ne ,, in quarter calk.
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chests
Logwood, dcc.«&c.
*'•" 7—tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
India Goods,
COKIUTIKO or
Haurial Humhums
Tickiccs
Patna'Chintz
Taffaties
Punjum Cloths
Chopja Romal, Pulicat, Barhar and Bait
dannd Manokerchiefs
'or sale by
JoJhua Gilpin,
No. 149, South Front ftreeU
where may be had ' .
A few trunks of French Goods,
Confuting of plain and striped Silk h'oft, Um-
IrJisMifi.hU, Also, a few boxes Sperma
ceti Candles, and a few barrels fmoaked Herrings.
rwvemler 10. *
''odfrt
This Day Published,
Aad to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corwr as
Second and C»hefnut streets,
Price i-Ms of a Bol[ar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i» No. V and VI of
" The Hiftoiy of the United State! for
the year 1796,"
In which tjic charge or speculation apaind
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secret art of the T*tASUKy. is FULLT
REFUTED.
WRITTEN J3 r HIM $£ £ jr,
TM, pubHcation presents a concise statement
of the bafo means pradifed by the Jacobins of til •
United States'to asperse the characters ot rhofe
psrfons who are considered as hostile to their difor
gar.zmg; schemes. It also contaias the cor-"
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Mefirs
Monroe, Munlcnhurgh and Venab'e, on the sub
jca of the documents aforefai'd, and a Tories of let.
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, paving beyond the poHibility of a doubt"
that the conneiSion between him and Revnold,'
was the result of p danrg confpiraoy on the part
r -ilTociotts to extort money
•ivf A cf <">< Jhird from the retail p,V e
will be made m favor ot wholefaie purchasers for
CASH. Order-s to be adiirtScd to Mr Yobns''
Augufi 25,
[Vol 1)MB XIINow Landing,
yr-id Pou Sals by the
lihiis BRANDY j
SSS} aICE /»»•>
7 hhdj. Carolina TOBACCO /■ ——
Philips, Gramond, & Co. fiujr the C
#Mr«s«r tS. 3 . HR
The Commiflioners 4 Dr. C
Por alleviating ihe distress ot the Citizens of | dreiTed t
Philadelphia, have removed their olTicc to tit# i Q a zctte
Old Court House, High Street. | j au
t F.D .VARD GARRIGUES, Secretly. ( , P
nth m', iB. _ 1,..
iTTiTTDTirG,
From on heard thf.foio Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
comnwnkr, fr«in London, r
60 tons of the best clean Ruiiia C o U
H V MP i r
Or cOtt o( bottled BROWN S TOUT. o»0t 'P
For file by tile fubferibers, No. 21, Penr.-itreet. lame pi
Willings if? Francis. from, b
oa. ■i ■ d x 'yp ;jusv
- r n ' ! the cor.
Jail arrived, hotph
from IVrt-au-Prirde, and fcr Sale b/the fubferi- 3. 1
bet:'.. No. ir, Penn-ilreet, taVes,
( z _ „ A3 t
.stride* <prime Coffee faceo f
51; Larrtß .( .
6.;'j b~« ? s 3 . ,n m<d
WiU'tnki &> Francis. for th
' c « s! _ § diffufio
"■ " SALE, beinfo
8* rat «iiicil*e*». No. 21, Petm-flreet, cxecut
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, the p*
Tnhn Gretu, commander, {rem Bengal, rtties t
Cmfflhgtf . rie'i p
BaftnSj of various qualities & prices I(h
Vuf'jum Cloths notions
S-nahs- Guzz y do. «Fes,
ITumh-fims Charconna Dor -i merly
Blue Ck>lb Q f
Qhirtz and Calic.es Mulrnuty
nnodyl '
Mah Pat«» Hhk.s. ea.eo 1
Ginßfc*T)» do. intha'
Js»vMan»«» foriw
ftarrahs ' Siflctfoy fnread
"UiLfcoes Choppi Romal. P
S "°<V do " • , B.'°"'
GilL Rotnali p er Gans of various colours time <
Mock F u'ic-ts rape 1
200 tons SUGAR ' of all
90 000 lb. PEPBER. j^ r
< Wtilings & Francis. feryat
The Piece Goods Uoi c
Of the Ganges are now open and expgCed to faie st " i
;hat commodious (lore the north welt corner ot fubfci
Market ind Fourth ftrget. , nov - TO ,~'. have i
FOIi SALE, sr was t
TbfepU Anthony Co.
No. ?. Chcfnut Street, lowin
A cargo of choice'Bourcl«aaxßrandy, ift and 2d whicl
proof, Hit landed , opini
250 bales of Bourbon cotton of a fupenor quality ,
" d do. Surat, 4°
A q.anHty of hca-.-y black pepper in bah. i
Fourbor. !!*}■>> <.f the firft quality
proof Jannicttfpirits Ine ti
Old tbndonparti-.'ar .\Udeira wine"? (n p«M» & j co "| c
do. market. do qr. calk.. ; "
New rum in hogfheacs I
GciHiine Gin in pipe. tacK.
Clarec in cafca .. taufc
Spcim ictti tand'.ei and Itrain d oil notbe
Prime fiofton beef try i
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrel, and half barrels - (<
D». rierriiig in do do
Bed Boston Mickur.l in'barrels 0/ thefall fare. in a
•N;w-Ei j'aml t.:\v l ; a»n the i
A few tonsil Russia cordage 1 Intel
Ruflia f athcr beds JaTI
ClovtF and Timothy ftcdia ja.ic. it
Long whalc-bonp
No'l, 2, and 3, BoHon fafl duc. s ner^
A few chrds tirll ou iliiy Hyson an 11
Carolina net* vn whole and half tierces and
\n invoice of Dutch hoilm? glaf» **rr.
m pat ;
Morclecai Lewi-s, fpir
HAS FOR SALA 7 , ttrv
At his Store, No. ij, Grc it Hack-nreet, he v
Ico bales 01 Befigal Gooes »e.«
1 Containing Bsftas '' ra
C Ipis Int
Uurrahs thei
eve|
Took :ry ,
Check and 3tripea
Bandauo Handkerchief. lusi
Mamoody ext
Calicoes <
U boxes Irish Linens £ ,
I do. Diapers , ,
7 d,>. Up! rellhs acl
20 eawdcrs Java Sugar J ro '
73 bags b'udk Pepper An
116 din East Inuia Ginger , 0 f j
joo calks roll Brimstone j t;
70 pipes Madeira Wine
57 calks Gin .
\ quantity of Cicathing Copper ana .sails, km
fl.sto~h.r3g. ,aw^w ot\
~~~Tq V Sale, by the Package, ™
For eift, or good notes at Gxty or ninety day* "J
Book and Jacohet Muslins plain "1 be.
stripes, and Checks I in ni<
do. do. 1 amboured j- p lc ] [a g Cl ,
j do. Ladies handkerchief., & I d e
gentlemen's neck J
Jaconet chintz, muftiit for i .nif and the Wed J
India market, Mlicote and linen handkerchiefs, V
■for do, do printed do. do. common purple and m
chintz Ihawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex- ps
portation. Also a.few fcotchcambritks and an tll
alTortment of muslin by the piece. . l>i
The whole of the abovtf being a consignment
from t}iV manufa&urers m Britain. j B
To be seen at WilMAm BtACKBVRN .
Ofiice, No. 64, South Secsnd Street. tc
Nov. 6. * awtf - P
To be Sold, ):
A Valuable Plantation, f<
OF upwards of One hundred Acre, of Land,
well w r -red, in a heakhy fitu=tion, about o
seven miles from this Citv ; the buildings may be b
jnade to accommodate a large family, M a j n
rate cxper.fe, and polT, Eon had in a few we.ks.
P irt »f the purchase-mom y being paid, a report
able credit will he allowed for the remainder. (
Enquire of the Printer. I
novembtr 3 __ t
AU Perfaps who are indebted t° c
theeftate of Wimmm HErsnAM.'fcn. of Phil a "s<
dclphia, deceased, are pcquclled to make fpcedy t
payment; and those who have any demand* a-
crainft said eftjite.'will plcafe to present them, prfiv
»erly attcfled, to the fubferibers.
' William Hey/bat
Robert Heyjham. >■ Executors.
Francis Halves Sayre, 3
Iwait* 6. W*
S
y 1 "-!', l lite t^
C (1? iij K I t?♦ I is accomj
lignity, a
PJI U A D EL P .*/ TA, danger.
f L _ —l the air, 1
for the Gazette of the UshtCd States, wceffive
' V being ov
Dr" Currie has afTertcd in the letter? nd- dispose t
dreffled to Mr. Wyi.koop, inserted hi ydur 1 a S e
Gazette, upon the fub]eft of the originj»r
the lat« epidemic, the following opinions-: 0 " s
id. That intermitting and remitting fe- the auttl
vers, the generpl offsprir.f; of vegetable pu- epi -
or narfhy exhalation are never con
°3d. That the bilious yellow fever of all mitting
hot countries and seasons, is not a more vi- an 111^
olent species of the rtwittiflg fever of the be a ai
fame places, but effeiitially different there- * -
from, being a Mgwr degree of the common to Have
typhus or hospital fever, and proceeding from oy a /u }
the confinement of animal ellltlvia iil oirty, nca >
. . p«arau<
hot places. T r>-
3. That no txhalations from putrid vege- inuics,
taVles, ever produced a contagious fever. 1,1 "P 1
As these positions are laid down in the mtenjeb
face of fails publiflwd by the firft authorities eil at,
in medicine, and as it is of more consequence tember
for the citizens to know the danger their heat, a
diffufion annually exposes them to, than to rile to
be infotmed who will fill the vacancy in the J'"' 6 ''"
executive direftory in France, I shall take 11,11 11
the pains of Hating to the public, the autho- this ti
rities to prove that the whole of Dr. Cur- f°H| h
rie's positions are totally falfe.
5 I (hall also prove that Dr. Currie's late
notions concerning imported contagious dil- 1 "
wfes, are dire Sly contrary to those he for- the
merly avowed in his " account of the diseases as ait
c a » fever.
01 Avitrica.
Dr. Claghorn in his account of tlie dil-
eases inlMioorca found tertianfevers infeSious iealon
in that I (land. " Tertian fevers of various greet
forms appear .among people of all age», and , ' , " tK 1
spreading frytn one to another by cont.t- «
gion, they continue to incre,afe till about the part«
r. time of the autumnal equinox, they . be at.
rage with the utmost fury amongst persons as vi
of all ranks, whether natives or foreigners." ! Vi
Dr. Clark, val. 1. page 151. in his ob- ®
fervations on the diseases of long voyages to at £.<
hot clitrates, observes : u^',l
st "So far as my obfervatipas go, X roust "an.
of fubferihe to Dr. Cleghorn's opinion. I «s 1
have frequently seen agues appear, when there 1 ua '
was no reason to irapu;e the cauic to mar/by ! Y ™
effluvia ; but merely to contagion. Ihe sol- ve 0
lowing are a few of the many inftanees,
2d which might be adduced in support of this ot t
opinion. Several years ago I attended a la- OUw
" y dy in a palfv, who lived in a town wnere ' r <">
na ague.prevailed, .and was cenfined to a P HS '
three pair of stairs room : yet, nevertheless,
she took a tertian, whtre no oecafional cause ' no
6 could be imputed except contagions yU ,
i. " A few years after, a gentleman ill Qf mar '
the palsy, as also his fervaut maid, were at- cxtr
tacked with intermittents, and no other P«*>
taufc could be assigned, except the-vrfit of a-
noiher maulfrrvunt, who lived in the coun- ban,
, . try who was ill of an agus. P ac
1 « A person ill of an ague visited a child, and
in a high and; airy situation ; and when the
the feverifh state began to fubfule, had much milt
intcrcourfe with it. The child in a few boa
days took the disease.
"An adult person whose habits and man- 0
ner of life, made him by no means fubjeft to K ' lr !
an intermittent, called upon a friend who cut)
was fwcating profufely ill the paroxysm of dut
a tertian. The effluvia arising from the ged
patient*, body, he said, he received by in-
fpiration ; the (cent, of which he never af
terwards could get rid of : In a few days
he was seized with an intermittent, with le- q"'
is vere quotidian paroxysms, attended tvith de- the
lirium, and great irritability of stomach. call
In the third paroxysm I visited him ; and he r- n
then appeared to be in so great danger, that uc
every measure was instantly niade use ot to or
break the force of the next fit ; which cor
succeeded; but he continued for some weeks as,
extremely weak. f °'
" Since I was elefted physician to the lev
Newcastle infirmary, in May 1788, I have >< n
had fix, inflances of agues being communicated. »ti
from one person to another by contagion.—
And .the fame thing has happened to iorae
of the other medical geutlemen in the hof- rei.
pital. The infirmary is situated in a dry,
airy situation; and agues have not been '7
i w other patients have been admitted labouung
under the disease. In the cases I have al- wt
. luded to, .the persons with the up
y ao-ue were in the high wards ; and lay in HI
beds, contiguous to patients who commu- | h
j • nicated the diltemper. n
, e ," « The remittent fever, which proved To U'
' deftrudive to the imperial army in Hunga- tli
w n ry, spread by contagion ; became exceeding- qt
hirfs! ly mortal, and was propagated over Ger- U.
e and many, and great part of Europe. 1
« Dr. Schotte, a German phyfieian, Jup- «
m ex- poses that the contagion, which produced j"
nd an t j, e remittent fever at Senegal, ir, 1788, was b.
brought from Goree, by some black meffen- d,
' ment ger ; but Dt. Clark observes, that this
does not seem to be clearly ascertained i
for the remittent fever there, generally hap
wtf. ptns during the rainy season : hut when b
the rains are heavy and overflow the illand,
the fever affumcs a malignant continued e
H- form. . ,
' > and " The author gives this fever the name t
, about 'of fynochus atrabiliofa ; but it appears to a
may be be precisely a remittent fever, of a malignant 1
nlo<!e " nature and indeed he confeffes, that it on- ; c
w 7 k J' lv differs in the beginning from the fever t
Z which is called bilious, or from that which 1
® goes by the name of yellow, by the fevcr^ty
»wftf 0 f its fvmtpoms."
. 1 Dr. Lind, in his " observations on t.ip
ed t° diseases of hot climates," p. 118. observes,
I Phil a "s« That the remarkable difiblution of the 1
! fpcedy blood, the violent hemorrhages, the black <
r vomit, and the other symptoms which cha- 1
:m V P ' nfderize the yellow fever, are only acciden
tal appearances in the common feverof the
cutors VvVit-Indies. They are to be esteemed
' " mereh; as adventitious, in the fame manner,
, w4 w as purple [rots and bloody urine are :n the J
' j or as an hiccup ta the dysentery; ( . ;
| hke these, they only appt sr when the dtiea.c
'is accompanied with a high degree ot ma- 1 <
lignity, and therefore always indicate great P e
danger. They in general proceed from in- We d<
tense heat and 3 peculiar uuhe*lthfuln?fls of have
the air, though from a gross habit of body,
s. excefllve drinking of fpirituons liquors, and and C,
being overheated in the fun, may perhaps fuffici
dispose to them." bable
i ur Page 121. " I have perufedmany Eng- obtain
lot lifh accounts both iri mannfeript and print, so wi
; - ot this fever, (remitting) in molt of which «d ar
j?e- the authors have agreedonly in the common O
3U . epithet of yellow, from the (kin's being fre- been
on . fluently tinged with tht.t colour. But the Jty wt
fame appearance is alio usual in mod inter- 1 lion 1
all mitting seven, in some contagious fevers, Wha
v [. and in many other fevers, so cannot properly negoi
the be a diltinguifhing mark of this." been
„ re _ |i' This.fever has been supposed by some that
noft 'to have been firft imported to the I'/eft Indies view
rom by a Jhip from Siam :an opinion truly chime- all t
r t* rical ;as similar diftafes have made their ap- hnnj
pearauce, not, only in the East and Welt j rible
-g C - Indies, but in some ot -ihe foiiiWu parts c: | pait,
& Europe, during a feafou when the air ioat j opp<
the intensely hot and univholsfomt. This happen-j deel
ities ed at Cadiz in Spain iu the months of Sep- j Iro
.nice tember and Qfilober 1764, when exceflive , rooi
beir heat, and wani of rain for some months, ga* e 1 beei
n to ' rife to violent epidemic bilious disorders, re- I It i
the fembling thvfe of the IVejl Indies, of which an I zinj
take hundred persons often died in 3 day. At | foui
liho- th' s time, the winds blew mostly trom the j and
Cuj. south, and, after fun-let, there fell an unu- I con
fual and very heavy dew."
] a { C Dotft. John Hunter, in his obfervationi I J
dif. on the diseases of the army in Jamaica, faysj I add
f or . " the yellow fever is to.be considered, only, I of]
feafes 31 a more dangerous form of the remittent I in
fever. And there can be no doubt that the I Th
. dif- 1 emitting fever not only appears in different of
aious fcafons and fituatiom withjvery different de- 1 eh;
rious grees of severity ; but also that while the re- the
and mittcnt fever prevtib in its usual fmm in j c*l
; nta . J the Weft lo'dm islands, some individuals, ani
It the j particularly those who are newly arrived, will to
they be affeiSed with very remarkable yellowness, ant
■ifons !a* as bilious and black vomitings." I the
• Ts " j Doctor Lind (of Windsor) also mentions, I lat
3 0 b- That the putrid remitting fever which raged
rcß to Et Bengal in the year 1762, was highly eop- gc
' tagious.—Page 36.— -And Dr. Lind (of I
rou st' Hallar) relates, that a hospital at Jamaica Inc
I was rntirely deserted, in confeqtience of it. Jof
t there fixation* nigh a large-tnarfli which very fliort- j th
narfhy 'y converted the molt ftmple intermittent into co
le sol- j vellow fevers.—Page 17 B—Difeafes of hot Iw.
arces, Climates,-r-Dr. Lind (of Haflar) speaking pe
jf this tbe remittent fev«r, observes, that this to
1 a la- difoafe is the autumnal fever of all hot coun- I fp
where tries, the epidemic disease between the tro- b)
to a pics, and the disease mod fatal to Europeans to
helefs, all hot and unhealthy climates The I
I cause molt powerfulof all the remote cayfes is just- tn
ly thought, by him, to be the effluvia of I co
ill Qf marfliis ; and hence, evidently, proceeds the in
re at- extreme unhealthinefs of a place called Cul-1 n <
other P«*» on- catlern banks of the Ganges ; ta
<t of a- the (hores about it are full of muu, and the jd<
coun- banks covered with trees. Opposite the A
place where the (hips lay there is a creek, 1 th
child, and about A. mile from its entrance, (lands |tl
when the town of Culpee ; the (hips lye about a 01
1 much m'le from the Ihore ; noue of the sailors on | p
a f ew board the (hips at this place enjoyed their 1
health. It was once customary to fend some J p
d man- of the company's servants here to receive the ai
nc£t to cargoes of the (hips and fend them to Cal- tl
d who cutta ; but so many of them died on this p
ffm of duty, that the company was at length obli- I ft
>m the ged to dispense with it. The noxious va- e
by in- pours arii<ng from fens spread but a little f<
•ver as- way- Dr. Lind has often known (hips f<
v days crews at a very little difiance from the Chore v
nrith fe- qufte free from this disorder. Bnt although I I
rith de- these marfl miasmata firft bring on the dif- :
iac j,. ease, yet tontagan particularly it, and 1
and he renders it more epidemic. Thus the Drake I t
er that ludiaman continued free from the disorder I e
fe of to for two weeks together,' when (he Lad no I <
which communication with the other (hips ; where-1 «
e weeks as, as soon as the difofder was brought 011 t
board, many were seized with it, within aI 1
to the few days, in such a manner as to leave 110 i
I have room to entertain the lead concerning j t
unicatedL ' ts peCilential nature. ]
An Englilh physician, quoted by Dr. 1
to "some Clark, vol. 2, p. 314, make the following
lie hof- remarks . —" The cold ealterly winds, pre- 1
i a dry, vailing in the months of April and May J 1
ict been « gave moil of the copiplaints of that j 1
pt when season, the intermittent or remittent type. 1
bouring The former, ia forr.e parti ot",he touuiry, j
have al- were common as to bp epidemic ; and,
ritli the upon more minute infpeflion, one might ea
-1 lav in fily trace contagion as one of the causes of
cam'mu- the complaints. In a work ot'importance
In tlic neighborhood, this disease raged with
roved so fych violence, as to raise feriouJ alarms for
Huno-a- the confequeecee. My attendance being re
ceeding- quested, I had an opportunity of obfervinjj
i'er Ger- the progrefsof the disease. A> my firft vj
dt I foiled whole families'attacked with the
:ian, ft:p- complaint, and 110 sooner had it entered a
produced family, but the wife took it from her huf
-788 wis band, aud communicated it to her chil-
Lessen- dren." MEDICUS.
hat this Nsi
rtained Ripuhlicamftn 'm Front?, pure and undtjiUd !
-ally hap- Two Dirtdtors and more than sixty mem
jut when bers of the two Councils, arrested, bahiflt
he island, ed and their property sequestered—and the
continued elettions of fortytwo deparfments annulled
thirty-tw« jourv.ah suppressed, their edi
he name tors and printers arrested—by a fovtixign
jpears to and a aVret of three D:'re£tors, in
malignant violation of all laws, of the constitution and
hat it 011- i of every principle of juilice ! !
the fever the tytrants, the republic is laved ! ! This
iat which furily nfuft be a " terrible republic.'.
le
ns on thi Freedom of the Prtfs in France!
observes, The' Executive Directory have ordered
on of the thirty-two Editors of Paris Journals to be
the black confined in the Prison of La Force, all of
•hich cha- thera accused ps being Confpiratoi s. These
ly acciden- it fetms are to have the form of a Trial, al
ver of the though the Deputies were banished without
esteemed such a ceremony. It\is easy to foreiee that
ne manner the Ed'tors mult follow the Deputies.
NEW-YORK, November 12. j jf-* 1 " 1
The n«ws front Bjfton confirms our ex* i ichcai
ttations of a continuance of ike wiir.— • the U
e <lo not know the terms of peace which 01 .ui
vc been offered by the contending parties reqini
-but it is rational to suppose the Emperor law.
d Great Britain wiftvfor peace on terms I H
fficiently humiliating, tho' it r -not pro- the 1
ible they would be willing to give all and 1 numfc
■tain nothing by a pacification. France al- I the v
, wishes for peace, bnt the terms demand- • iublt,
I are probably very high.
Our only hopes of peace have unifoimly j
een founded on the alcendancy ot the par- •
r wbich has been proscribed; This expul- C
011 leaves no profpedl of a pacification. — Ectw
Vhatever may have been the process of the of
cgociation, or by wbofoever fault it has lal
eon brokep off, one thing appears-certain, ed
hat the violent revolution ills have had it in
iew and (till- per lift in it, of demolishing
II the old governments of Europe, or ef
>rinfl[ing th< m all to the feet of tue " 1 er
ible RepubKe." The truce, the summer C i
piiftj has osly given those men the better j
ipnortunity to mature their schemes. The • if e fh
declaration of independence by the German the c
Provinces on this fide the Rhine, leaves no w hi,
room to question that the Dire£tory have ; m pc
been intriguing to bring about that even t.— J n c
It is all one confident plan of revolutioni- ra /,
zing the world, proclaimed by the French JlrJl
four year"j ago. Europe must still bleed—j of ti
and happy will this country be, to escape a ty" 1
convulsion. to a
emp
A friend has put into our hands a petition , na j
addressed by a large body of the merchants onci
of Nantz, to the Council of Five Hundred, feuj
in favour of the American commerce. — j mot
This was defigncd to counteract the effedts reft
of another petition presented by the mer- der
chants and owners of privateers, " praying g n
the council to fix with certainty the pohti- der
ctl and commercial relations between France jefi'<
and the United States, and-to put an end r y,
to the diversity of opinions <.n this import- pin,
ant fubjeit, whether among the members of
the Direflory, or the judiciary or the legif- con
lative body."
After anfwtring many declamatory paffa- to
ges in the firft petition, the merchants of
Nantz reply to the charge again ft the Arae- Stl
ricans, that they bad fold them a great deal va
of bad flour at exorbitant prices : This flour ma
they state, wat moft'y purchased by the dij
commiffarics of the republic, and that which f:s
was (hipped J>y private adventurers, wa3 o- ch.
pen to iufpeftion—llo frauds Were pra£tifed be
to obtain a high price. Th« merchants pit
speak refpeftfully of the succours granted th
by our government and by private donations to,
to the refugees from the Colonies. yo t
In speaking of the arret of March 2d, so
they fay the .decree was partial, precipitate, efi
contradictory, and infuffic'unt. —Partial, by
involving many innocent persons, who had
no suspicion of their intentions. Precipi
tate, in requiring immediate execution of a
decree that ought tb have been notified to
American navigators, before fubje&mg
them to its penalties. Tt is certain fay they
that none of thera c«uld fufpedt they had
occasion for the role of equipage in the form j-j
prescribed by that arret. The treaty of C(
1778 does not mention the role ; but a pad- j
port only, and the form to which the 27th t ,
article refers, appears to require 110 more t i
than the peffport by means of which a'l the
preliminary formalities are judged to be „
fulfilled, 'it is true, thsy fay, that"the molt °
eminent juries in France differ as to the reat t
■ sense of the formula.—-This (hould be a rea- ~
! son for judging the Americans with less fe- ,
■ verity. But, fay they, why have not the |,
1 Americans been notified that they were not r.
- in rule, when they were bringing corn to t
1 France and carrying on the French coasting
t trade. Men who have been so well rcceiv- c :
r ed ought not to expeft to be treated as en- j.
5 eniies, without a declaration of war.—The f
- arret is contradidtory ; for an American cap- f
rt tain who meets no privateer and reaches a j
a French port, is received as a friend —but
0 if he meets with a French privateer, he is
g taken and condemned.-;—lt is inefficient,
3 for tho designed to prevent fraud, it only
•. serves to conceal it the better.
r They conclude by declaring that the ar
■- ret will-bring- ruin on many American fami
v lies and on many of the French Colonics,
it the wrecks of ivhofe fortunes arc on board
the captured vessels—it will reduce the cap
,- t ital.of many merchants in Holland, Hara
1, burgh and Bremen, whose debtors have
a- (hipped goods to them on board these (hips,
sf and who have no other means of difcharg
:e ing their debt—ln fine, they fay it will a
th lienate, perhaps for a generation, the affec
or tions of a nation, which is moltly devoted to
e- France.
) } j Nantz, 30th Thermidor, (Augud 17)
.j". Here follow the names.
fie
a A Pamphlet is publilhcd in Conne&icut,
if- iotitled " Georgia Speculation Unveiled
il- by Abraham Bilhop, of New-Haven ; in
which the writer attempts to prove the sales
of the Georgia Western Lsnds to have been
1 ! fraudulent, and the notes given for them of
m- coiirfe voidable for want of consideration,
(h- He maintains that by a pamphlet circulated
he by the Georgia companies, called a " Rate
led of fads," and by other representations
di- made by the fellers, cf the land, the pureha
gri fers were made to believe anjL.GP'Urafled
in for the lands uniler the belief,'that-t!w Itate
ind of, Georgia and of course tha companies Be
lay tuallyipoffeifed the fee of the lands ; and
■his that the Indians had retained only the right
of hunting and fiftring on them., W liereas
the fa&'wa?, that the fee of the lands was,
as it (till is, in the natives.
On tli< ground of Iraud, and want of
red in the notes, the author con
be t«n.>Sj that Courts of Cliancery have a right
of ti intcrpolc and declare the notes, void. He
lefe inltances the greiit caff.of the contracts to?
ah South Sea Stock, whie'i Parhtunent, on ac
out <count of the injuitice of applying the ordi
;hat nary 1 tiles of law to tbetn, iiiterpofed tneir
sovereign power to modify, i:r order to fr.vt
multitudes from ruin.
R. /. Piter.
. Th(2 cases are not exatt:> fiivl.t, ; th«
maintains that the Georgia hufuit' -was a ' |
fchenie offwindling, worse in principle thaa
the TovitK sea bubble, and like that, is a cafe
!. of such iir.nenfe injustice and fraud, to
require a ftffpcmfion of the ordinary rules of
la w -
The pamphlet is a work of ingenuity, and
the fubjeft very fciterefling. A l'econd
I number will appear in a few weeks, in which
I the writer will' publish the documents to
■ substantiate his reasoning.
| AFFAIRS OF ITALY.
1 COR RESP"ONDE.NCE,
■ ] Ectween Gen. Buonaparte and the rainiiiers
: of his Sardinian Majesty, relative to the
i late iafurredlion which broke out in Pi
> edmont.
; TIJLiT LF.TTER. <
f From the Chevalier Dam 'ien Priccca.
Turin, July 11, 1797-
r CITIZEN GENEP.AL,
r j Somefymptoitfs of infurreßion havejujl man
e ; ifejled themfehes at Fojfano and its environs,
n the canfe of 'which appears to be accidefital,*but
0 which may involve conferences cf the highest
e importance, unlefi tliey be speedily remedied.
i- rat, lam aSuated by a double motive : In the
h frjl place, that I may afford you a teflimouy
| of the confidence which his Sardinian Majef
a tfj government repefe in you : andfeeendly,
to acquaint you that his majefly, tho resolved on
employing lenient mefifures to resort tranquility,
3" may perhaps be compelled to refiore to tigorous
ts ones, in order to subdue and bring bach to a
d, feufe of their allegiance those who may prove
i more flulborn and pertinacious. His majefly
its 1 reflects, -with fatufaSion, thatJlould he be uti
•r- der the necejfity of energetic mesfures, the French
ng government, far from holding such a conduct
ti- derogatory to the conjlant eflecm which his ma
ce jtfly entertains for them, would, on the cont ra
nd ry, attribute it solely to the mere d.fire of jl'p
rt- ping the progrefr of ill-intentioned persons, if
of any such exifl, and of maintaining in that
;if- country that Jlate of tranquility sb neccjfavy to
ends which the two govcrnniiitis are anxious
fa- to accomplijb.
of The poUtion of Fojfano, to the left of the
ne- Stura, may probably make it necessary to ad
eal vance fomt troops beyond the ancierA tin: of clc-
DUr marcation, which no longer exifls, and to t!.:
the dijlance of left than four miles from the fortref
ich fes occupied by the Freuch. As the gen. in
1o- chief is informed of the objeS of theft measures, '
fed he will be, doiibtlefs, induced not only not to'jp
nt3 pose them, but also to refuft his countenance to
ted the insurgents, Jlould they apply to him for fuc
ons tour. Full of confidence in your loyalty and
your fmcerity, his majefly hopes that he may be
2d, soon enabled to atquairit ycu of \he perfect re
ate, eflablifhment of tranquility.
by / have the honor to be,
had With refpeaful consideration, v
ipi- Citizen General, &c. Isc.
>f a D..MIANO PRIOCCA.
to S '
iag Anfwcr of the Gen. in Chief, Buonaparte.
ht y Head-quarters at Milan, 4thTherm!doi*-.
had j j,, not p er ceive, fir, any inconvenience
jrm t ij at can ar jf e f rom y OUr advancing the ne
ccfTary number of tr-oojrt beyond the line of
demarcation, in order to maintain tranquili
-7- 1 ty and good order in the liases of his majef- i
lore t y
l ' u ' I hive given the ftricltrt orders to*tl;e
be of the different towns wie occupy,
Tl not to intermeddle in the flighted manner in
rc:l ' the interior affairs of your country. You
, rea " may reft fatisfied, fir, ofitfee iuteicii.l {hail
5 always take in doing every thing that may
l ' lc be agreeable to his rftajefty, and of the tie
; not f ac l to contribute in p\y fliape to ilia
1 ,0 tranquility cf his realms. Mr. Borghefe
haj mentioned to me his majesty's desire to
:eIT " draw I'ome corn from the diltrifks occupied
e!1 " by the French troops : I moll readily ac
' *' e quiekc in it, and pray you to believe the
cn P" Angular confidcration and elleem with which
ICS a I am, &c. &c.
(Signed) BUONAPARTE.
Ie is
lent, SECOND LETTER.
° n '' From the Chevalier Priocca. ,
Turin, July 2?.
ear- ' J
r CITIZEN GeNRRAI,
nTil!" Tlie minitter of foreig affairs M. Tefli,
j' has acquainted me with the eftablifhmcnt
' of the Cisalpine republic, and I immediau
rim returned him such an answer as was caj
eulated to maintain th'e belt underftandiiig
s between the two powers.
'ps, feetrted to have at heart the ac
•ij knowledgemcnt of that republic, on the part
of oiir government, I feel easier, citizen
ed to g cnc, ' a '' to apprise you of it, that you may
thereby perceive how highly I value your
j ■< councils, and the interell you feel for the
1 "' happiness of this cc.ntry.
The affairj of this country unfortunately
li'cut begin to take a ferions turn ; the malcor-
I j ,1 tents pursue their intrigues, and" conir.ue
_ their movements with increafcd ardour.
_'r | " If under thele circumilances, citizen gen
■'o-en tra '' y ou deem it expedient toex
" " ( ,f press, by some public writing, how ua>vi%.
ling the French republic i* to give any room
j j to fappofe, that the maicontentg were au-
L ' Rate t ' lor ' Zi;t ' to ' t ' ,e fnppnrt of itsa
•' gent?, or of those" of th(j Cisalpine repuhKc,
aiiori,-. [ (hould fed hiifh'v gratiful for th:tt new
mark of your friendffiip, the continuance of
' "ll'ue I would endeavour to defcrve by ev.
, erv means in my pow• r.
'"and Bt.-ffiwill pr.>bat!y have the honqr of
'• . giviii;; you more particular accounts rda
r N tive to the fituatii/n of this country : I
'' U '^ S have authorised -him to remain at head quar
b V " 1 '' ters, in order to keep with you a rtw*e-^L'-
j- reft correj'pondevice : aud I entreat you to
receive him kindly, whenever he may have
"" U j'| occasion to entirtain you with our cons-
V''h'. dence in the lo\ alty of the French, and
V •*i with the refpeaful consideration with which
,as 101 I am, 'ace. ( Signed)
011 ac - PRIOCCA.
: ordi
-1 tneir BubiKipartc's to tins letter w?.c #
to fr.ve that his ietter to the Manjifis de St. Marfan
might'be publilhcd, w'.kji is, as foHov/s :Letter from ih• jrnerd til chief Bhnuiliarle to
tut M.trouls He St. Marfan.'
' _ Head ' }\ia'rters{ Mirn, 2 1 Meffi'lor.
I tiave received M. lc Marquis, the letter
from M. de Priocca, miniiler of his Sardin
ian majesty, which you had thegoodnefs to
forward to me.
[, in coniequerice of it, gave orders to
(he general of dirifibn Souret, and to the
general who commands at Cuneo, to allow
a free access into the fertreffes of Tortons,
Alexandria, Ch'erafco, Ceva, and Cuneo,
s to an engineer officfr vrhom his majesty
may appoint, to infprft in person the works
which M. de Priocea supposes are carrying
on in these forts : and which, it fliould ap
pear, occasion him some uueafinefs.
The officers who shall be sent by his ma
jesty will be able to assure him, that I carry
on no works in the fortreffes of Piedmont;
that it is impofflble to be more pleased than
we are with the conduft of his majesty's
cabinet towards the French republic ; and
that so far from wishing to give the least
loom for any uneasiness, that on the con
trary I am ready to do any thing his majesty
may require, _ in order to allure him, and
which may contribute to the tranquility and
prosperity of a court, thnt for some months
pr.ft hss give'n us the mod sincere tokens of
its kind intentions towards us.
I have fsnt no troops from Lombardy in
to Piedmont, becaufeit was never my inten
tion to lend any thither. Itideed it were
rr.y with to fend a battalion of Poles to Cu
neo, in order to unite to the army the 45th
derm-brigade. But if his Majesty fignifies
the lea ft defile that such a measure fhoultl
not take place, I will gits it tip ; and I am
alfu ready, if his Majesty is displeased with
any of the generals or officers employed in
his dcrcinirfn, immediately to displace them.
Being informed, that M. Ranfa was en
deavouring by incendiary publications, to
stir up an infurre£tion in his majesty's domi
nions.; and being likewise informed that he
was at Milan, I ordered him to be taken in
to custody, afid to be confined in a castle
of this city.
I entreat you, M. le Marquis, to acquaint
me before your departure from Milan, with
every thing that lean do that may convince
his majesty of the friendly fentinients of the
French republic towards him ; and with the
desire I feel to make myfelf tifeful, and to
contribute to the welfare ofhis majeftys do
minions, and to his own private happiness.
Be pleased to reft affiired of the efte'em and
high consideration with which
I am &c. &c.
(Signed) BUONAPARTE.
THIRD LETTER OF M. D. FRIOCCA.
Turin, August I.
Deeply impressed with the interest you
take in the internal tranquility of this coun
try, I have to inform you, that it would be
perfeftly re-established, if the brigands who
particularly take refuge in the Gcnoefe ter
ritories, did not spread.themselves about in
£ll direftions, to take advantage of the dis
orders thai may still prevail in some of the
Neighbouring provinces. As lam fatisfied
that you will bear with fatisfaflion, that the
Piedmontefe have evinced great energy a
gainst them, I flatter myfelf that I (hall soon
be able to acquaint you, that
tranquility ave re (lured on the frontiers.—
I beg you may reft assured of the loyalty
of the king, and of his friendfhip for tht
French republic in all his measures ; and of
the sentiments of esteem he entertains for
you. I have the honor to be,
With refpeftful consideration, Citizen
General, &c
---(Signed) D. PRIOCCA.
buojjaparte's answer.
I laaru with fatisfatlion, fir, that the cri-.
tical fituatioi in which Piedmont has been
placed for a fiw moments, is happily gone
by; and that y.»u will hereafterhave noth
ing to alarm you. I make no floubt, but
that the wifdont of his majelly and of his
niiniflers will fpa.-dily 1 fuccecd in re-eftabli(h
iug the internal tranquility of the country.
(Signed) BUONAPARTE. '
I'»y this day's Mail.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) Nov. 8
On Wednesday the 23d inft. the Gener
al-Court arc to meet in this town, agreea
ble to adjaurnment.
Lai week a lad living w * \ Andrew
Drew, Esq. of Somerfworth,'fell from the
dam of a mill ten feet into the water,
paflVd under the water wheel, and was tak
en up sixty feet from the place he fell from,
without receiving any injury.
Cj- The Stock of the Farmers has increa
sed within these few years, in New-England,
teyond calculation. In this fesfon, 'for the
sale of beef cattle, the world seems to swarm
with, them—Upwards of five hundred,
■were driven through Concord on one day,
last week—246 q>f which were owned by
capt. Weld, of Plymouth.
Monf.y Making—Depredating.
On Thursday last, the two gentlemen
fom the State of Massachusetts, who have
bteiT in pursuit of our woney making gentry
for fome'd:iyß past, happened accidentally to
find the "phte and about sixty dollars of the
counterfeit Union Bank lmlls at Lee.
The person in v.-hose pofliffion these preci
ous tilings were found, gave the pursuers
leg bail. [Dover paper.J
NEWBURYPORT, Nov. 10.
MELANCHOLY FIRE 11
About one o'clock we were alarmed with
the cry of Fira frcrti th- houfeof Mr. Mo
ses Savory, which vvas so enveloped in fhraei
before it was discovered, that it was in a
lhc.rt time entirely consumed with all its con
tent*, and painful to rebate, two young men
apprentices*!o Mr. Savory, perilled il\ the
flames.
COLUMBIA, (S.C.) Nov. j, j
ExirerS of a letter from n gentlmaH fitnoffau,'
A r cw-Proituu nce, to his friend at Wilming
ton, N. C. dated Sept. 26.
*' NVehave lately* very providentially fdaped a
nioft h lliO) piot—A parcel of French negro?.* who
haye been captured ami fold here.and who had ran
away frotheir owners, entered into a conspiracy
(ibout thirty in mimkr) to burn the town and
make a general massacre of the whites. They had
rhe promise of a greit many slave*- to join them
immediafeJj on their beginning ths horrid hufinefs
1 heir fchcjfie could not have been planned fey apy
set of men, and would undoubtedly have occasion
ed an immense Mooted had they carried it into
efF?<ft ; but one of them who had been Compelled
to take the oath, divulged the secret to Kia mailer
a few hours beiore the ma fiacre was to hnvtt began.
A party of men were imm diately volle<9*d and
f«nt after 'he villains: only a few had yet aflVmb •
led ; five of them were taken ; principal ring
leaders made two of that nunaher ; they were all
condemned, and three executed ; the other two
will (hare the fame fate in a day or two. The
principal ringleader v as a notorious fellow in the
dreadiul bnCacfs of St. Domingo, who met hi*
fate with the greatest cootpofur'.* and resignation,
fayinjj, as he approached the place of execution,
thar he was content to die, as he 1^8 murdered ma
ny a wh te man !n his time. *
m "Tr'u ' " ■■ 11 %
%])t dsa3€tte,
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVKWNO, KOyEMBER 10.
CO NGRESS.
HOUSE OF R'EPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20.
House met andreceivedthe report of their
committee, on the unfiniihed business.
A quorum oaf the Senate not being afl'cm
i bled, the adjourned.
The Senators of the United States in J
town are, from the State of
New-Hauipftiire j r " T La «gdon, and
Mr. ijivermarf. '
Massachusetts Mr. Goftdlnie.
Connecticut Mr. Tracy.
Rhode-lfland ( Mr. Faster.
Vermont Mr. Paine.
New-York Mr. Lawrance.
Pennsylvania Mr. Bingham.
Delaware Mr. Latimer.
Kentucky Mr. Marftiall.
South-Carolina Mr. Read.
Georgia Mr. Gunn.
A certain great body will in a few days
commence their operations ; when, if some,
stung with the wrongs and indignities of an
injured country, affiime the attitude of
GLADIATORS or of MADMEN, it is
to be hoped we (hall not again fee othen in
the degrading and infultingattitudes of/buf
fers, Proteus's, French hirelings, and trai
tors.
The French Constitution of the third
year, or the third French Constitution, ne
ver received the approbation of the writers
in the Aurora. We know they are prin
cipled against every fyftcm but a put* de
mocracy, a government of one branch, like
that of Robespierre, or the former govern
ment of Pennsylvania.
The late tornado in France, which has
swept away the two representative branches
is therefore approved of by the Aurora, as
a return to a single branch government;
For tho it cannot now be called a represen
tative government, on a purely democratical
plan, yet it may be Queried whether more
than four or five men are not the efficient a
gents in any popular Jtngle branch govern
ment that ever was formed. If demagogues
did not believe, cr know this to be the cafe
they would never clamour for a fimplc de
mocracy.
While the war shall continue in Europe,
it is not probable, or scarcely poflible that
the United States can fuffer more than they
do at prefentby French depredation on their
commerce. It is to be feared from present
appearances, that France does not intend to
alter her couduft altho to an eye of reafonit
would appear that (he has much more to ex
peft from us by a just and honourable treat
ment especially while the war continues,
than by pursuing her present system.
Our government has at present but a
choice of difficulties ; either to interdict fo
reign commerce, or to permit our merchants
to arm. In the latter cafe we (hould pre
serve much property which is now plunder
ed from us by the picaroons in the Weft-In- ,
dies. In the former, we might make our
enemies fuffer, and might possibly bring
them to terms of justice ; but at an inealcu
lable facrifice. Government will probably
wait/the result of the pending negociations. j
All calculations on this point however baf- |
fle eonjedlure for things are'now ftraugely
ordered in France.
It ought never to be forgotten that the
enemies of the government of this country
have been uniform apologists for every atro- ■
city that has been perpetrated by the fuc
cefsfnl faftion of the day in France. They
are now in course, consigning the fallen vic
tims of the dominant fattion to obloquy. It
is to be observed. that while they attempt
to prove that these men were intriguing to !
restore monarchy, they implicate them in all ;
the principal measures adopted for the ex
termination of royalty. It the charaflert
given in the Aurora, of the transported depu
ties are just, it is evident that no men in the
nation would have had less to expeft from a
restoration of the Bourbon family to the
throne than they. If monarchy should ever
be restored in France, it can only be done by
means of the military. It appears that the
diredlory is the only branch of the govern
ment thit has intrigued with the armies.
To *hem the direftory ascribe their success
in the late contest with the legiflativebranch
es. Had the souncils succeeded by the
fame means, the Aurora writers would have
said that the Constitution of France, was
annihilated.
f Almost every member of tl;e Codicil of
"ori, who were ehofen for the new third last
spring, have had their feats vacated by the
directory, after holding them five or fix
months. This " extra-constitutional ftcp"
as the Autora would call it, was not taken,
till the sense of the army was *fctrtaintd.
The condemnacTon of the memhers of the
legiflattire of France, by the diredory, iw.th
oul trial, is juftified by th« Aurora, 011 this
ground. " They would have been found in
nocent by the tribunals. The judges of
the tribunals in Franee"are appointed in the
fame manner, in 'which their legiflatiye coun
cils are, immediately by the people."
Tlus it appears, that the people of France
are not to he truded either in their eleflions
of legislators or judges. Can it be believ
ed that a few royaliits have in almost every
instance coatrouled the fir It free elfidtions un
der the constitution of the third year ? No
—the mod natural, the molt obvious reflec
tion is, that the people of France ivifh for
peace, and a state of internal security, which
seven year's exparience have (hewn them, it
is vafn to expedl so long as their public af
fairs art bandied about from faction to fac
tion. Hence their, election of luch men as
judges and legislators, who were laboring to
bring about peace, in a conititutional way.
For this, they are proferibtd and banished,
without the forms of jultice.
Married, at Lilbon, Col. Humphreys,
Minister Plenipotentiary of theUnitedStates
to the Caurt of Spain, to Miss BvbKELEY,
of that city.
GAZETTE MAR IN E LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
AH RIVED DAYS
Ship Aurora, Suter, Hamlurgh 47
s\pa, Yard, ■ New Providence 12
Brig Ah,labor, Da Cnjla, St. Domingo 30
Sa//y, DnJJi**, do. 50
William, Rojburn, Rhode IJlnnd lo
Pennsylvania, Tatcm, La Guira 30
Sch'r John, Ford, Fayal 60
Weymouth, Guthrie, Ntiu-Tark 6
Favorite, Shaw, Portland 8
Betsey, ffollon, A'ledlin, St. Mary's 10
Sloop Pomona, Sawyer, R. Island 9
CLEARED.
Ship Enttrprixe, Norris, Hamburgh
Commerce, Chamberlain, Portland, N. H-
Brig Maris Woo 'dwatd, Jacqmcl
Sch'r Little Will, Pear ft. If, Port-au Prince
Thomas, Wood, Ditt»
Landlady, Ft/ler, 1 Liverpool, N.S.
fyop Brilliant, Watson, Norfolk
The (hip Roba & Betsey, Nimmo, drove
from her anchors, in the gate on IVednefday
laj!, and bore away for the Chefapeale.
Five trigs are below.
Captain Tatem left at La Guira the 18th
ult. the Jhip Henrietta, Weeks, and fch'r
Minerva, Moodey, of this port, the latter to
fad in I o days ; brig Harriot and Ann, Rider
of Charlejlon, for Curracoa and home in 8 days
and brig Maria, Keyram Waljh, of Portsmouth
N.H. Jor Bojlon in 15 days.
.
The (hip Concord, Thompson 104 days
from Batavia, is below. The Concord left
this port ten months ago.
The Aurora, Suter, 47, and Sally, Dof
fon, J7 days fr#m Hamburgh, arrived at
the Pint last evening.
The Pennsylvania, Williamfon, and Hol
brook, M'Call, have arrived at Hamburgh
from hence.
Captain Suter passed a ship in the Elbe,
which ke took for the Charlotte, Dannen
berger, from hence.
The Nassau (late Indoftan), Merchant,
of this port, was ready to fail for Batavia,
under Danilh colours.
The Tarris, had failed for Havre,
several daysbefore the Aurora..
The Aurora failed from Hamburgh the
2d of Odtober : Mr. Gerry had not arrived
at Amsterdam the 12th September. Fay
ette was expefted at Hamburgh to take
passage in the (hip John, of Boston.
The (hip Cleopatra, from Lisbon ; the
(hip Roba and Betsey from Bristol, and se
veral other vessels are arrived in the Dele
ware.
Atrived yesterday, in 14 days-from New
j Providence, the (hip Asia, capt. Yard, who
favored us with the following
! Remarks.—The Asia failed from New
| Providence November 4th, in company with
, brig Dolly, of New-York, a schooner be
longing to Wifcaffet, and an Englilh brig
| and Hoop, under convoy of his Britannic
| Majesty's ship Squirrel, capt. Hardy, who
i saw us fafc to the latitude 29. N. wilhed us
| well and parted.
Left in N. Providence the ship Circum
; navigator, of Boston, from Havanna, sent
I in by the privateer Scourge of Regicides.
She will be fuffered to proceed home with
out ahy papers.
The schooner Hawk, of Baltimore, bro't
in on suspicion of contraband goods, not
yet cleared.
- Schooner Adventure, of Baltimore, bro't
in with contraband goods; cargo condemn
ed, veflel libelled.
Ship Two Friends, of NevvYork, from
New-Orleans ; part of her cargo condemn
ed as Spanilh property, the ship restored-
Brig Heftor, from Charleston, with corn.
A (hip from Charleston, brought in on
fufpicipn of contraband goods, not yet
cleared.
The Ihip Louisa, Baltimore, Champlin,
failed for Havanna, after a few days deten
tion.
In a violent gale of wind on the 15 th and
16th of October, there were cast away and
loft a number o: vessels belonging to difle
rent parts of theTJnited States, on the coast
of Florida ; the crews of several had arriv
ed at New-Providence ; the vessels and cap
tains names are—brig Commerce, Balti
timore, Gardiner, vessel totally loft 011 key
Largo, after differing the greatest hard
ships for three days, without either food
or water, was taken off the key by an Eng
lish privateer, and humanely treated.
| Schoonar Diligence of Portland, Capt.
i Crab tree. Vessel totally l o ft on Abano,
I part of the cargo fave'l.
I Brig ,of BriftoJ, R. I. from Ha
; vanna, Capt. Trownfton, vessel totally loft
\ on Florida, part of the cargo favej.
' Ship Experiment, capt. Brownlow, from
Charleston for Havanna, foundered in the
Gulf, after being 16 days at sea in his boat,
he arrived at New-Providence in a dread
ful fitnatioji from hunger, thirst, and ex
posure to i.ie weather.
Several other vessels were loft in the fame
gale, but their names are not known.
AH these unfortonnte people were saved
by the wreckers in New-Providence, and it
is but jultice to speak highly of tlieir kind
n«f» and humanity to the rliftrefled seamen,
who must inevitably have .perished, had
they not come forward and exerted them
selves to save their lives.
Nassau, (A'. Providence) Qct. 31. —In
the gale of the l6th.in(t. the (hip Speed
well, Brownlow, from Charleston for New-
Orleans, foundered in the Gulph.—Th t
captain, with his paffengere and crew, 21
in all, arrived here last evening in an open
boat, after having, for foui teea days, been
exposed 10 extremities which feemalmolt be
yond the power of human nature to have
surmounted. The benevolent disposition
of the inhabitants of thin place, -which has
been so often exerted in behalf of the indi
gent aud diftreffnd, we are confident will be
displayed on theprefeiit occasion-—and there
rarely has occurred one which called more
loudly for relief.
New-Tori, November 18.
ARRIVED.
Ship Margaret, Bafrons, London 53
Brig Sally, Hotchkifs, Surinam 32
Schr. Lewis, Jones, do.
The following vtffels were at Liverpool when
the Jii-jthtrj, miyi. Cumiuhigs, test Tflere
18th September, aud were to fail Ihortly
for the following ports t
Brig Betsey & Hannah, Bartlett, for
Wilmington, N. C.
George, Allen; St, John's, N. B.
Ship Alligator, Harris, , Boston
Jane, Garden, New-York
Ranger, Hodge, Boston
Dublin Packet, Greene, New-York
Nancy, Cunningham, Wilmington C.
Sally, Brand, Norfolk
Potomac Chief, Magruder, A
lexandria
Sally, Storks, New-York
San Nichola, Radich, do.
Bofion, Nov. 13..
Capt. Ellery, from the Strcights, informs
that the British fleet under larl St Vincents,
were off Cadiz, the Bth Oft. but undcrltood
they were preparing to leave it for Lisbon.
Capt. Ellery, was taken by the French and
Spaniards, but hiving the Ro! d' Equipage,
wis not detained ; he informi, that all Ameri
can veflels unprovided with this protesting Pa
per, are in dinger of capture and condemnati
on ; capt. E. Taw two American! taken off Gib
raltar, but coutd not tell who they were.
Flour was worth 10 dlls. at Cape-Francois,
16th Oft.
Arrived twig Betsy, Norton, from StUbes,
70 days.
Arrived Schr. Hawk, Trefry, of Marblcheid
56 days from Rotterdam. Left there, capt.
Koberts, of Bolton; 2nd a brig belonging to
Mr. Watfan. The Ulysses, Trevet, of this
port failed the morning before capt. T. Oft.
li, Ist. 36, 33, t0f1g.37, 13, spoke brig George
and Harriot, Hills, 34 days from Lisbon bound
to llcltoih Oft. 31, was boarded by an Englifla
privateer, who fired twoguns with (hot; other
wise tri,'ed politely.
Arrived !h:p Ulysses, Trevet, Kotterdam,6o
days. Left tjiere flijpj Adelaide, Mun, and
Friendlhip, Smith, of Baltimore; brig Brule
of Philadelphia, from Charleston ; brigs De
light, Dran, and Hazzard, Roberts, of lSolion;
the Harriot, Story u| Newburyport; the (hip
Lexington, M'Ktnzey, arr veil the 6 Sept.
14, F<ro Isle, bearing N. W. by N. distant 6
leagues spoke Ihip Sophia, M'Donald-froin Bal
timore bound to Bremen ; Sept. 21 lat. 58, as,
hing ISt 3°> spoke brig Arethufa, Weft, from
St. PeterJburg, for Providence, out jo days.
Nov. 6, spoke ihip Galen, Mackay, off Cape
Sables, 44 hours out frrm Bolton, for London.
Arrived (hip Eliza, Bafitt, London, 5 ; days.
Spoke nothing-
Arrived brig Delight, Ferkitt, Lisbon, 55
days-
Arrived Clip Alligatwr, Harris,
days. The Ranger, of Wilcaffet, failed ia co.
the Stockp9r', frmn hence, had just arrived.
Ariived brig New Adventure, Worth, Lis
bon, 44 days. Left there (hip Kuffia Merchant,
Thompfcn, of Providence ; (hip Dominick
Terry, D« Hart, of Philadelphia, ship Calra,"
Wyer of Boston ; (hip Glory Ann, Coffin, Bol
ton; ,brig , Norris, of Newburyport; brig
Pol|y, Tufts, Boston ; with a number of other
American veflels ; failed 10 days before capt.
Worth, (hip Friendlhip, Atkins forthis port.
Oi3. 10, lat. 43,54, long. 49, 41, spoke (hip
Swan of New Loudon, from Liverpool for
Newyork, out 31 days : Nov. i'o, spoke (hip
Vlorenzo, fr.< 1 Portsmouth fur Surinam, 44
leagues from Cape Ann.
Arrived fch. Rutliy, Stover, Surinam, 4s
dayi. Left there about 14 fail of American
veflels ; hut brought no lift. Sep. 34, lat 35,
N r . long. 62.4 ', W. spoke fch. Clarissa, from
Plymouth, forGuadaloupe, ojit 7 days; Nov.
3, bt. 57, N. lorg. 70. 51, W.fpoke ihip Pros
perity, 8 weeks from Liverpool, for Philadel
phia.
Arrived (hip Industry, Shaw, 75 days from
S'.Ubes- Sailed a week before capt. Tupper,
who arrived on the » init.
Arrived, brig Atalanta, Ellery, Malaga,
41 days. Left no American vessels there.
Spoke xo days since, in lat. 43, long. 62,
fchr. Nancy, 63 days from Amsterdam for
Boston.' •
The Mount Vernon, from Liverpool for
Baltimore, was spoke Oft. 6, in lat. 46,12,
N. 14 days out, all well.
The Stafford, of Portsmouth, has arrived
in England.
The Ihip Sally, Buzzle, has been taken
by the French privateer Pandora, and fenl
into Hifpaniola.
The Medical Leclures
Jn the University of Pennsylvania, arc post
poned until the 1s!l Monday, in November
next. ,
Gftobcr 14. ' 9JW4W.
? ——— —— - . _ ;■ — 1
The printers in the United States are rcyiujled
to infer! tt)efollowing Oifemiiitlons in the'J"
papers, by which the public will be served,
as well tr' t! err obedientfirxaut.
E. LINCOLN, Superiniendant of ,
Liifht-Kqu/es, State »f ?.laJpichufet:u
BY order of ihe United States, a Light Hotsfe
has beer, eroded at the Clay Ponds, on Cape
Cod; the tair.ps in wl.-rh are to belighted on
the 15th in!!'. The light l-iqufe is crtiHed on,
Ijn3 elt tip teet, which with the e
levauoii of the L? the whole heifthth
200 feet above falgh v. ater rtnrk. In order that
this Light tr.av bedittingui:'hed fnmi the haftm
and other Li;-huVrl ourcoaft, an Etlipfo i» e
reiStd, which witi revolve around the Lamps
once in 80 fteontjsfo that the light will be near
ly excluded from the eye of the approaching
mariner shout thirty seconds, in one revoluti
on of the cciipfir. To render the benevolent
designs of Congress as extensively 'lleful a? pos
sible, the Marine Society in Bofion, by a hrge
Committee from their body, whose views hava
teen itcouded by others, have taken such dil
taucts and bearings as they thought neceilkry ;
which oblcTvattons giving light and fjfety are
addk'ii for the benefit of all interested—and art
as follows— —
Vrf!i-4s outward b-und, from Bofion Lit;Kt.
houe, aid would with to, fall in with Cape-Cod
the course is E. 8. I?, distance ij; leagues, thenct
3 leagi.es trt the Light house. When up with
the L«ght-houfe and it bears S W a leag ies dis
tance, you then fleer 8 which jwrll carry
yo; our of the fo/uth channel.
VjfTels ir.wjrd bound, and fall in with the
ba -k of Cape-Cod, bring the Light to beir S\V
2 leagues difUnce, then you may fleer WNW
for Bofion Light-Hnufe.
If y.iuVou would wifb to go into Cape Cod.
harbor, you may keep the (bore aboard about
a triile distant, whert you will have 10 fathom*
water. Thtre is a bar lies off the back of the
Caps, abiut half a mi!.- fromlthi shore.
\>hcn up with Kace-poiqt. which is very
brtld, and about three leagues ta theweftward of
the Lijht-houfe, a»d may be known by a num*
ber of fi(h houses on it, f otn 1 to j miles to
the f. ut'.wird of Race-point, in what is called
Hening Cove, Avhure j uu raiy have good an
cboting half 1 mile fthra the shorts, tbo wind
from E to IV N £ in 4 or even 3 fathom water.
It bound into Cape Cod harbor, your course
from Race-paint to Wood end, is S S E 6 miles
distance, ( bring the light tn bear E by N and
run for it about two mile*, you will then he
deircfVTocd end—then you mult fleer NH
until the light bea.s Eby S—theg run NW
for th# harbor, until you havt from 4 to 5 i-»
fathoms water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Light then will bear Eby S 11 S ? or
6 miles diltance.
In running from the Race point to Wood
End—after you p«fs the Black Land or Hum
mucks, you will come up with a low faody
beach, which forms tht harbor ; extending be
twaen 1 and 3 miies to Wood-end, which is
difficult to be distinguished in the night—lt ii
very bold—you will havt 15 fjthom water
■within half a mile of the shore.
In beating into Cape-Cod harbor, you must
keep the eaftera shore aboard, until you get in
to 5 fathom water. Stand no farther to the
westward than to bring the light to bear E by S
as ther* is a long spit of sand runs off from the
western short, which being rtry bold, you will
havt 11 fathom water within a ftor.es throw of
lhor«. 1
la cale it blows so hard that you cannot beat
in the harbor, you will have good anchoring
without, from 10 to 15 fathom water.
VciTils in Bofion bay and would wifc to put
away'for Cape Cod harbor, must endeavor to
fall in with tht Race. If in the night, and you
eannot fte th* land, you must bring the Light
to bear E by N and run for it until you have
foundings in 14 or i j fathom water, the# steer
north east until the flight bears E by S then .-un
in N W for the
At full and change, it is high water off Race
Point at 10 o'clock and 43 minutes. Vcflels in
leaving Cape Cod bound to Boftnn, should cal
culate the tide, as theflocd sets strong to tbe
south weft.
JOHN FOSTER WILLIAMS, ~}Committe
NATHANIEL GOODWIN, ( from th,
JOHN CRUFT, Marin,
JOHN HILLS. ) Society.
THOMAS BARNARD, A branch Pilot
for tbe part of Rail on
SOLOMON COOK, \ ReJidence at Pro-
ELIJAH NICKERSON, J •vincetonCapeCod
At a Meeting of the Marine Socirty, held at
Concert Hall, on Tuesday 7th|Nov 1797—the
above Report of its Committee was read and
approved and ordered to be published.
By order of ihe Society,
THOMAS DENNIE, Prrfident.
WILLIAM FURNESS, Sec'ry,
AT U ¥ I C E.
THE partHerlhip between John Instone aa4
J am ■ 1 Bacon, under tho firm of Inflonean^
Bacon, is this day diflblved by mutual consent.
Allperfons who ftsnd indobted to fa d firm arc
requested to make immediate payment of their
rel'pciSivc accounts, to John Skyrin, onLanden
burger's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all pcrfons having any demands a
gainst the said firm, are desired to bring in their
accounts immediately to him for settlement.
John Injlone,
James Bacon.
November ac. eodtO
L~O S "
Joseph Milnor's Draft, payable
to the fubferiber or order, for Four Hundred and
Twenty Dolln, »j Cents, dated November 1 Jth,
J 797, at Sixty Days after Date, 011 Roseson aud
Paul, with their acceptance. If found, a reafoa
able reward will be paid on delivery.
George Pennoct.
November 10. 4t
D A N C I Na "
MR. £3* Mrs. B T R NE,
Cf the New Theatre,
RESPKCTFULLY inform the Ladies and Gen
tfemen of Philadelphia, that Mr. Byrne's
Academy will commence on th* ift, and Mr*.
Btrke's on the ad of December next,
november 20.
i he Canal Lottery,
Will re-commence drawing, on
the 20th inlt.
ROBERT BROOKE,
Chick Clcri.
Nov. 11. dtao.
FOR \ALE,
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
with a Wjggon and Gears. The Horf.s are all
young, strong, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as most in the coun
try: The Waggon and Gears are ft.ong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT*GREEN,
Weft Town, 'Chelter county, or?to
Thomas Fijher,
No. t/>i, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
Ii rao. ij eodjw.Canal Lottery —Nw- If-
Will commence drawing Monday, thrzsth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven DolLire, 'at Wm. BLACKBURN'* Lottery «
antl Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secnnd-fl reet—
Tickets ill the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten J
Wm, v,'.iete--cliecl: books arc kept ior regiftcr- ti,
injr and examining in these, the City of V. a thing
ton, No. 11. and Patetfon Lotteries, and informa- 4,
tioo' wfcere ticket? may be had in most of the Lotte- ct
ries authorif.d iy law i» any of the States of the b.
Union. e<
N. <3. The business of a BroKeii, in buying and e ,
felling all kinds of Public Stock ar.d fcecu: ities, l c
difcouut'ng Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of p
l.ands, Houses, &c. &c. will be dulv attended to,
1-, Wm. BLACICBU&N. p
novembtr 15. __ * r
hlk. i i
ANY person having raw Silk of American or t
}■ iii-opean produce, may hear of a pur- jj
chifer who will give a liberal price ior the lamg. o
Application to be made at the Ilore of lIobeRT t
Lewis, jurt. No. 70, Pine Street wnat'f, any
time before tlrt nth of January next.
Nnv. \C" I
From Marseilles. j Ti
THE CARGO
Of the 'iwedilh barcpie Guftavus Adolphus, si om
Mar I .' lies, confining of the following articles,
is Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fjbfci ibers
B'RA'NDY, well flavored, of i, 3 &4UI proof .
Clare*, >f> hogiheach
Ditto, in cases | I
Frontigiiiad Wine, in cases of 30 bottles ; t
Olive Oil, of a fupcrior quality, in bask. tj of 6 a
and 1 i bottles 1
Capers
o:ives
Almonds ' .
t>ry Verdigreafl s
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 18, 30 and 31 inches
faffeties
Long and short wl"te Kid Gloves for Wo«n:n
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in Imitation 0* f£»draU
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
.Ostrich Feathers Ii
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
Bte.NIA'MIN MORGAN & v
ROBERT ANDREWS.
Septemhef %y. eot£
"School Books and Stationary.
W. Y OU N G,
No. CI, Second-!lre«t, corner cf Clitfnut-ftrect,
HAS now rc.v y for file, a very largt assort
ment of JlngßJh, French, Laim a-:J Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
an l colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY tUSLISHEI),
Sheridan'* Uidionary, the sixth edition, in one
lir : ;e vl. Bvo price. 3 do's.
' Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol 75 cts.
t)ittr, ccrtiimtin, price I dol. 50 cts.
A'l fdifs' of draSving, packing,/printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Partebo :rds,
IheatMne <nd Hotting Papers; printed Blanks
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, el
the belt quality, used in the counting house, or
Catalogues cf a mifceHaneous collcdtion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring isc-Vovc* OA. Z4.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hogsheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
jo Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy, j
10 Pipes of old Port Wine*
oa. IT. !^ f
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any othtr hi
the City —
OF FJRIOUS SIZMS,
From Bbv bto iq by 14,
By the Tingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
store of the Subfciibers, cornel „t Arch and lront
flrCtt' James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia. 1-neq, >797-
15 Dollars Reward. ,
T> AN-AW AY froni the Sublcriber, on the ijtfc
17V. ini>. an apprentice Lad, named JOSEI'H
BARNET, by trade a paper-niaher ; about 19
year", or a-s, five feet seven or eight inches high,
of a light complexion, ties his hair. Had on, and
took with him, a caltor hat, half worn, one brown
mixture cloth coatee, rttw, one light do. half
worn, one ilriped velvet wai.lcoat, with blue
cloth backs, one do. with fuftiao backs, and I*ll
- othe/thin clothes. It Uprol»*bk be will changs
his clothes, as he took a number with him.
Anv person apprehending said apprentice, and
securing him so that I can g:t him again, (hall rs
reive the above reward, and reasonable charges if
brought home. PETER BECHTEL.'
Lower Mcrion townlhip,
Montgomery county.
3». _ N I—law y*.
T This Day is'Publifted,
BY Mess. Dobfun, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Book fellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
E!egant>y printed on IVuvr paper, and Hst
prtjfctf,
By John Thoropfon,
A COMP ARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States, with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
clafling together their most important provisions,
under the feveial heads, of administration ; with
Motes and Obfcrvations.
gy WILLIAM SMIIH,
N Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to tha People of the UnitedStatcs.
N. Ii- A few Copies printed o;l an inferior pa
per, at a dollar.
P Februarys mwf
Philadelphia, OS. 24th, 1797.
A LI, persons delirous to contrail to forniih Ra
tions and Quarter Mailer's Stores,dining the
vear 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on MudliUnd, Carlisle and Read.ng or
anv of them, are defired'to deliver tneir proposals,
under a sealed cover, on or before the aoth No
vembcr "tench FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to confijl of
t Fl»ur or 3re>.l
j pound Beef, or 5 4 .* of Pork
j K i» Rum ; Brandy or Wh.&ey •
1 lit, Candles
2 lb. Soap \ 'so every hundred rations
LAW IrA
Latcfl London and Dublin Editions.
H. £s' P. RICE, BookfiUcr^
No. South Second, artd Vo. 50, WTarlcet street, AI.
HAVE just received by the lite from P.at
Londoh and Dublin, theh fprir j; - importa- r»» it
lion, confining of a variety of th.- Umt and nvuft Roi
approved 1 aw BooVs, wliif/u itdiievl to those a' ea- | y ro
dy on hand, formstbe rno(<e*tenljv< coll. clion ev- | (^Jj c
er offered for fa*ein this country. They the* efore j <j»- c
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their q. ;)
connedUctTsin Duhjin, th M y are e!iahied to fellli iui j
editions (as they have hitherto done) nt the very
lowed prices. The following ari the latelt
puhlicationß. e ir
Vefey, juiiVs Reports iii Chancery, i
Peake's Cases irt Nisi Prius ; way's . ai
in the time of Kord"Hard\vtcta>; Floyer's Proders " A
Pra6tice in the F.cclefiai\iti! Courts ; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of Kiivfs Bench in Personal A<flion>, i J
p«rts co/iiplete ; Ward's Lav/ of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, I» voV* London edi-
tion,
H. and P. Rice e*pc& to receive by the firfl ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and Reports, the ad part cf Oil- ■*--
, bert's Law of Evidence by Loit, and a number of '
I new publications. , J % IC
! K
The Hi (lory of Pennsylvania, !
By ROBERT PROUD, f| c
Ig nosv in the prei's, and will be publifhcd,
with all convenient expedition, by 'Zsch A
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefr.ut-ftreet,
[ Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
| to be received, and at tlie Phibdelphia Library,
according to the printed propufals, until the
work is ready for the fuhferibers. ( t -.
July 18. »a'wtf w
" THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for fa la by 7HOMJS DOSSOX, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second flreet,
EVENINGS at HOME ; ha
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confining of a variety of MifceHaneous Pieces for
the inft ration and amusement of YOU KG PER
SONS—SixVolumesbandfomcly printedand bound * r
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and < xcellcnce of these pieces are
such, thit tb* Anly tCL. be known to be
universally cfleemed one oi the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the of young
perfon#.
11 Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teack the young idea how tu {hotft, | -
■To pf>ur th« freili inftrutfiion o'er the tnind,
To breathe th* enlivening fpirlt,and to fix
The generous purpose in tlicflowing bread."
Thomson. j_
Augufl 24. mwf 4 w at
—, to
this day vs Published, hi
By THOMAS HOfiSOrf y at the Stone House, tli
No. 41, south Second street, er
Letters and Converfatioiis,
Between feve»ol Young Laiie:, on improving ani in
tereftine futjeils.
T reflated from tke Dutch of Ma fame tie Camion
with alterationi- and improvements,
Printed on Jin* paper, mndnoaily bound,
Prkt one dollar.
AMIDST thetide ofmodern-R»mancei,painting
tales of <tttraor<!inary dißrofi, or of desperate- or
artful yillainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies lo -
be ignorant of, this little book corns* forward to so- -
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex- J
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, becaufc
elegant and natural i/ignity and importance of the Female
elaraßcr is exhibited in an interring point of view,
and prefects examples of real and attainable excel- (
lence.
The publisher wasfomuch pleafcdwith the pern- I;
sal, that he was pcrfuaded he Ihould do a ( leafing o
ferrtte to th» community by fending it in o circu- f,
lation. August 24 — p
' Afl laying Unties on Stamped Vellum "
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above aft may be had aj \
he Office of thsSnZetteof the United States, No.
U9, Cheftiut-fl-reet. July 19. <
The Partneriliip, '
1 T JNDER the firm of FREEMAN ts" Company, v
is diflblved by mutual consent. /Jl persons
having any demands ag iinft the said House are de
. Hrrd to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and '
. those indebted to the House aredeiired to make pay- '
ment to him—By whom bll find's will in future be '
carried on,at his Store, No, 39, South Front-street. 1
August 7 eod4w <
Richard and James Potter 1
HAVF. removed their Counting House to No.
! 45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
August i. w&f6t
. Lancaster, Harrifourgb Carlijle,
Shippenfburg and Sunbury
[ STAGES.
public are requested to take notice, that J
; X the partnerihip which has for some rime fub
fuled betwcsH Mathias Slough os- Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved : but, nbt as M.
" Slough infinu.-tejto the public without just cause ;
' as will more fully appear by a letter on the l'ub
jeft from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital ofwhkh is not now dcem
•ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumHantially inUrmed of the merits of
this bufiftefs, by applying to W. Gccr may have
the perrfal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
e Geer is not perfectly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage «mveyanc; from Philadelphia to Shippcni'- 1
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on t*. firll effort in
this business, VJ'illiarti Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
h tention anddifpatch that a seal to oblige the pub
s» lie can poJflibly exert. 1
d Xhe above company, who are amply provided 1
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
h render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
thof« wno wilh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
lc Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to I.ancafter, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto
t- ettablilhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wedncfday from the house
- of Samuel Elder, in Harrilburg, arrive at S.ti
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
,v- and return from theoce and arrive at Harriiburg
le every Saturday, so that passengers 'dciliricd lor
i t Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed o-n MOll
- days.
WILLIAM GEER.
>- liancaller, Jan. 27, 1797-
N. B. -This Line 01 Stages IHrta from the
'. house of William Ferrec, in Lancaftcr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at <) o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; apd from the of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wodnef
day morning, on thefame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Dllippenfbut-g, ami, returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
' fame jroatin* daily as in its lour from Phibdel- ;
phia.
\ • ;,
Imported ia the latest arrivals from i
Anifterdam anil Hamburg, and for Me by f
B. Ssf J. Bohlen, r ,
A large ajforlmenl of fine French Cambric:, i'
Piatiilas U »:r ( » ii) it Dutch 1
"•■Utannias Writing, poll, and print- to
Rouanes • i:ig paper de
Brown Holland Du'ch calf lkim is:
Checks -anil ilripes' Prime madder P ; >
Tickle'nburg« Sheli'd BlVlev tet
Oznabntgs Looking g'affl'es
White Meetings Hollowglafs wire ™
Diaper Slates r
Brown rolls ' Coffee mills _
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and firaw Urdve*
Black and whitalaces Toys afibrted in boxe« .
Ik ft Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wir.e jti
July ; m&thtf_ n< -
Thomas HeiSman Leuffer, crt
North Fifth flrect, c'dmer of Nprth aliey, No. 34, '''°
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELUiN r red fcoiirileiux Wine iu clfcsand
boxes, fix years o'd
White Graves Wine in cask« [n
Ticklenlmrgs , ja
Rutlia Sail Clotlii m
Ravens Duck p
Bag Linen vc
Helfi.ins
Diaper and Table Cloth ' rt
Empty hags
Common German Cloih pi
An aflbrtmentof black co!ou«»d Ribbons , u
Fine German Laces ti
Abouttwelve tons Ru!fia clean Hemp
Clover Seed /,
Itilian Soap, in fmEllbox'ei, for family ale j,
Window Glifs Aug 29 —ri\v /
TENKRIFFE WINE. «
LANDING at Walnut-flreet wharf, TENEJ " J
PIFFE WINE, of excellent qualify, in pipes
half pipe., for sale ty JAMES YARD. "
Oft. *>. • •frft "
Will be Landed, «
Froiri onboard the ship Aftive, Capt.Ci-Aiit.from "
Mambutgh, "
10 bal<» white Rnßia clean Hemp "
'a tafics Clover Seed '
For gale by 1
Thomas Herman Leuffer, \
North Fifth street, No. 34. j
Twne 26. f p
TO BE SOLD, {
And immediate pojjejjion given,
A Convenient well finiihed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house ar.d other out houfes.fitu
atcdina pleasant part of th« borough of Wilming
ton, infhe S(ate of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty foet front on WeH-flreet, and extends 1
through the square to Pafturc-ilrcet, on which is
. creeled a liable anil carriage honfe. ]
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. jo.
Imported in the Jhip I y igou,
And for tale by John Morto#, No. 116, South
FIOW street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( f£AS
. Tou/ig nylon (
j Imperial j
> . April 20. eotf
■■ ',-■!! , . ■
- For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
, A?viifo<i#le Lot of Ground ;
- QITUATfi on tl«<? north-e?ft corner of Wal-
O nut and Fifth Ureets, fronting the State
- House ltjuare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
i on Walnut flreet, and onediundred and thirteen
- feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present twofmall two ltory brick houses, and a
" number of small tenements thercoiv.
Al/o, fir Sale,
Two three story Brick Hovifes
1 With convenient ftoi-es, wharf, 4cc. situate on
Water-flreet, bctwien Mulberry and Safiafras
streets, containing in front on Water fti eet fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eaft
r ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
'j south thirteen feet fix inches, t bete houses
ave the convenience ol a put*ire alley adjoining
d on the north fide, and arc a very desirable fitua
_ tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or orher6 who
, e may haveoccafion for storage of goods. This
t. property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for ca/h. i ? or further information apply to the
pfinter.
Tuly ai. m&wrf
City of Wofhipgton.
7 SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For if)' Iniprovtmttil of the Federal City.
• Amagnificentdwelling-boufe ao,ooodollars,
at & cafli ..a,coo, ire .<o,opo
b- 1 ditto 15,000 flt caf>. 35,000 4ii,004>
id V 1 aitto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & carti 10,000 30,000
- 1 ditto 5,000 5,000 10,000
1 diilo uoco !i cai'r. j.ooo 20,000
■ h 1 cafb pri2e of to,ooo
l do. j,o«o each, are • ;0,000
dc. 1,000 - - 10,000
»e do. joo - - 10,00.)
' e So do. mo - - 10,000
/ a do d®. s (o - ■ 10,000
j. 400 do. - • 10,000
le 1,000 do. 10 • ao.ooo
j. 15,000 do. " T5®,000
le 16,7.19 Prizes,
in 3j,i6i HianTn.
th •
id 50,300 Tickets, at Eight Soll*r>, 400,000
b- N. B. Tofsvnnr tliufc-wh® msy take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,Q00 dollars will he
cd the la si drawn ticl.et, and the 30,000 the last
'o [>ut one :
m And approved notes, securing payment in either
he moD'Y or ia ten days atter drawing, >y> 11
at be received Tor anymimber not lefsthan tick
fe, cts.
Ny This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen nf
'g, cheprivatc buildings to be el tiicd in the City ol
to Washington—Two beautiful defigrts are already
lileflciVtor't'fie entire Ironts on two of the public
ic, f juarc;; I rcr.i tV.cfe drawings it is propofSS to ercel
'fe twocentreand '"oureorKcr buildings as-focn aspof
n- fibleafter this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
iy, when complete, to the fortunate adventartfs, in
rg the p.ianner delcribtd in the fchcme lor the Hotel
or Lottery. A nett deduolion of five per cent, will
n- lie made to deiray the necessary expenses of print
ing, and the surplus will be,made a part of
tire fund intended for the National Univerlity, to
be creeled within the city of Walhingtoa.
he The real fecuriticsgiven for the payment of the
ry BrizeV are Itekl by the President and two Direil
■o- ors of the Bank cf Columbia, ani)rare Valued at
of more than half tl:e ari-ount ol thejatterv.
Cf. a/}MUM. VLODGJrT.
*§« Tieketjmay be had at th* 1 ol t. ol^m
■ns Ma ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; . f Feter
he Oilif.an, llcfton t of Tohs Hapkir,;, Richrtiond :
el- and of Rhlferd Wilb,' Cooper's Esrry.
mwf
A Negro Man.
nn
TpOR SALE, tlie unexpired me (four years) on
1 of a stout, i ealtby, ailive eoro Man. He th.
is by f rade a Cooper, was brought when u boy '"I
to the farming bufiqc.fr, i« a good ploughman, un
derftancbthe cars nnd matingent of horles, and f c '
h a good driver He has lately been employed in i"
painting a new house asrd paints well—he is' —'
tempered, and believed ro be very hone ft, fold part- Ji
ly for want of employ,but more for being addiit- A 7
ed to liquor—For term* apply t® N ia, Dock ft
ftreet,.near Sprmce On et. A
Nov. 6. tf y,
The Philadelphia, A'pun, and 7 uclcrton
MAIL STAG E. t,
rHF. ftrtfriefsrs hg Ic/a/ve to irjlrm the , {bat y
they bans eft alii ft: od a Lett tv. n Pjyl'titihhia, £
Atfiorty Baijia, Jfa/npfon, Sf>red-well, and Mirrifia Fur
nace f JVa ling River fitting niill) ant/ the fw* r f '7
erton> in Nrw~Jerfey % to go »nce ei ivtek, ci-d aicf/m'j:-
ded ii iih goad horfesy a comfortable cwiugty asd a fate
ful driver, for the conveyance vf the tntjij, pajjltigtrs, and
goods. The Sta*e nviil Jlurt cvny TLurfday, ( ai IO
octctky A. M. frmn Mr. D.miel Coofer s ferry, <wd
lodge that night at Joel Bod'tne \, at I'jongetcom'ir <r ; and ,
cn en Friday, ct 6 o'clock, P. M. arrive at Cthh E« +
vants, in!ecpcr, in Tuclcrion, difant from t/rf city 54
ni!rx, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Eajl Grctijipg G '
Plaint f milet) where arc good accommodation* for tra
wl lets, and ivhers are commodious and fafe pajfage loats A
provided to convey pajfatgers to Cupt. William War
rington t house, on Tvchrs ljianti, adjiininfng the At'
Untie, n itero are gtd accontmoaations, and a convenient V
place te bathe ; thrfportfman xvbwvijhcs to regale hitrrfclj
uitb fowling and Jibing y may at this place le highly gra
tified, there feeing at ahjtofl every jfcafin of the year foul
andffh ia abundance.—\The Stage on its return, farts
from the a for if aid C, Evens' s in Tucker ton, every Tn<f~
day. irt 6 0 clock y A. AT. Ireikffls al John Bodihe s 9 i*t
IVa ding River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacomingy y
and at 1 0 clock, P. M. on lVednefday t arrive at the r
aforefaid Ctcpcrs Ferry. It is presumed thai no route of
an equal diflance will be less expettftvcy or furr 'tjh the it a
vfiller luith a greater variety <f amufetnent, as he r*ill
not only have a plead'an\ fail to the atlant c from Ttteier- |
tony but have the curiosity of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one fitting
milly in complete order, and at ivork ; gentlemen, too, xvho ]
are owners, or faSlors, cf any cf the aforefaid iron works, '
are f elicited to en courage and support this sage (by ivh ch j ]
they cau be fe well accomtnoda ed) the continuance of ivhich i 1
will much depend on their aid. The rates of paffengcrs .
and baggaat are as fallows: For ft pajfenger from the (
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to TuckertOn, including 1
14 lb. of baggage, Tivo Dollars j for way paffettgers
per mile t Four Cents—1 50 lb. of baggage equal io apof
fender. Foflage of letteriy newspapers, \£c. will be
agreeably to law.
iV. B. The mail croffesfrom the Old Ferry.
* THOMAS IVARDLE Co.
Tuckertoiiy Styt. 1%. 061. jj . laivtf
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.*
Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
i_ at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, i-viriy Tutfdai, TuurfJay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the rrorning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the feccvnd day, at
Worthanrptou Court House the third day, and oa;
the morning of the fourth day the paflcngcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey then* to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuesday, Thurfiay and Saturday, and the
Sti£e starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wedhefday ahd Friday j puts up at Snow
Htll the firft iipht, at Dover the ad nijlit,and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the thifd
day.
The distance 011 this rirutf, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is to miles left than on any stage route
between those places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the rojd,
which is most excellent indaeil. The proprietors
t willingly engage to return th-' whole fare to any
( paffengcr, who, after having j erlormed this route,
wili fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
1 Aucuft it. dim.dntf.
Erfkine's View of the \Va.r.
1 JUST PUBLISHED,
s By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Son.h Second flreet,
[Price 21 Cents]
f A Vrcio of the Cciufes and Confeqiten
- ces of the prefenl War with France.
Bv the Honorable Thomas liasKiNt.
3 May 15 §
STATE TRIALS.
e Sold b \V. Young, Bookfelhr, No. S l , South Sc
cond-ftrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
ClNtnining the impeachment, trial,and act{ui:-
al of Francis Hopfcinfon, Judge of the Court of
admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large S vo. vol. Price, in boaids.J
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aiTortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and b* tin- pacb
s, ege, well aflorted, and entitled to tlie drawback ii
10 axpartcd. Inly t—'
For Sale,
, ( , That well known place, called / r fi' :
>0 F K R R Y >
!0 Nefhamiay creek, 18 n.iles from Pbih
,o ladelphta, oa the I,'ew York post road,
>c containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon tlie
it premises are a large two liory Hone heuiaoccu
pied as a tvern, and a good one Jlory Hone kit
)o chen, a large frame stable with a good threfhinp
)c floor, and some out bu'ldings—alfo a will of
good water, and an exccllint ire House. On
K , this place is a moil elegant lituation foragentie
)o man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its junflinn wiih the Delawate, and thenct
ac'rofs to the Jcrfty (bore. It has tke privdegc
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
_ For terms apply to the SwWcribcr,
30 MOR DEC A3 LEWIS.
J'ay 14- 3t»wif.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
!T Boarding School for young Ladies.
er a /]"KS. GUOOMBRIDGE with muLhjjleaf
i|[ IVi. ureand rcfpeifl, returns her flncere ae
k- lAowledgi-mciit for the liberal encouragement
fbe Ins received during .four years refrdenee ia
of Philadelphia allures her friend* and the
cf public, so far from intending to detline her
dy school, she has made .11'ujTerior arrangement for
lie the more convenient accommodation of her
scl scholars.—Every branch of ufeful ar.d polite
»£• education is particularly attcm'ed to by Mrs',
m, Groombridgt 'anil makers excelling in their
111 refpedliveprofeCioTis.
Tel Corner of l-prutte and Eieventli Street-..
,!1 June tth, 1797-
vt J Thefituation is perfc»slly healthy ; and made
more agreeableby an extensive garden and lot
t0 of ground adjoining the house.
c, e . fvji Publifhtdy
at And to be had cf DoVfon, Campbell.Rifc.
Cafy, and the rtbrr pricipal Bookfellcra in the
city,price one 'dollar, twmty-F.ve cents,m boards
n- New Views cf the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BHNjAMJN SMITH BARTON, m. d.'
June 10.
Pllkdc.dL, : 3.
ri-IF fnbfctilfrts inform tiieir fnviu.s.w ■ 'cttfto
merv in roVru and count i4,tha» thl-ir floni*va now
ap't'n yitHe city, ~\nd others are daily opening; and
thai frofcitke present appearance «£ the prevailing
lufortkr have rrkftm to hope, their friends may
fbortly come to tlie cr.y With perfect faf ty. By
several hte arrivals, numbers received frelh
fuppUe? of GOODS.
Robert Smith iff Co. P. IV. Gallaudct 13 Co.
John Davis IS) Co. Sitgrcavcs & French,
Aleill & Smith, George Dob/on,
Wihtbcrger and Smithy Thomas Ryerfon y
Alex Bt'ftahd and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
'Jacob Spctry and Co. John Smith and Cc*
Owen & 'Jona. y&nes, Thomas Orr,
Keppela Zantziuger, William Barker & Co*
Adam Zantznger, Thomas Armat Iff Son.
J bin Fries, J, Miller, jun. and Co.
Benjamin jebnfoh.
OiSl. 14
POYNTiiLL's
Paper Hangings Manufaflory,
No. 70, Chefuut-ftreet,
IVbtfe he has fir Satr,
AVERY extensive Hock, of every colour, arvd
of the moit approved patterns, fuitablc for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
ALSO
A handsome aflortment of the mofl: fafliioriaMe
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very best pain Green and plain Blue,
WithPannel Supers and a rich variety ol Borders,
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chcits of .1 fupcrior quality —Alio*
ico Jb.'of Ilyfon,
Imported in the IVoodropSims, and for faie by
(he fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
Street.
C. Height.
novemher 6. eotf
Imported inthefhipMANCiirsTEß,
Benjamin Shewell, Matter,
From Bourcieaux, and tor sale bv the fubferiber,
No. ii Walnut Sheet,
j Bonrdeaux Brandy
, Irilh market claret 13 cases 'Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS iOR SALE.
Sherry Wine is pipes and quarter cafl;a
Rota do. ds.
Pimento ia bags
4000 bushels. Liverpool fait,
Aug. 24'. tut&6tf,
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before difpefed of at private fa!e)\
/\N Fri-itv, the Srll of December next, at fix -
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nina
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or late in the County of Waftiington, and Com
monwealth of Penafylvan'ia, and >n the waters of
Fre(h and WReelu-g Creeks artd Ten Mile Run.—»
1 Thefc Lands arc fertile a'nd well timbered, and were
patenteed early in except 3700 acres orthcrea
. bouts, which were patented in 1792. One fourth
r of the ptirchafe money to be paid at the time of sale,
• for the refiduc a credit of ®ue, two and three months,
I will be given, on inuwell and good feturity.
Prober 6. gawtS _
! To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before difpefed of at private file) *
, Friday, the hrll day ot Ueccrribcr, at fix
5 V*/ o'clock in the evening, at the Merchcnts' CofTc®
r House. in Philadelphia, Twenty Tho.ufand Bc
} vdm Hundred and fcrgbty acris of LAND, in the
5 State < f New-York, between the noVihern bounds
of Pcnnf/lvai,ia and the .Vu'quehanna, now, or late,
in the townfliipi of Hamdw> aftd Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One fourth of the p-rcfcsfe
money is to be paid at the tune ot lale ; for the re
iiiutt j credit of one, two, and three months will be
fciven, rn intcrcft and good fecdrity.
oa. 6\c G. 3 awt< :_
PEALK'S Museum.
r T"HIS valuable repository of the \vorl;y>f K"a-
L ture, so well calculate J to, delight the mind
and enlarge the undcrllunthiig, :sopened daiiy, as
' usual. It° l\aude in an airy and hcaltby fituarion,
and free from tbe epidemic that prefeit afflicts
tUe city; it may, therefore, be ffeqccßted with
- the created fafe'.y.
As an Air.ul iner.t, the fludy of Kitcre Is thit
.. niofl rational and pleating : as a Science, the most
fublinie and inflruolive. It clev/tes tlie mind and
expand, the heart. They
" lVrt.ni /■'ature't 7uorh am charm, rurth Gars bimfctf
" lie':! ennverfe"
Many inter:ftiliff additions have lately been
> made lo this Mutcum : ard the feathered
3 containing a variety of the nnjO: rare and beautiful.
fubje<99, :s tow very arranged.
» \Va::ai Tigures.of Men large :is life (fomr of them
carts from nature) are here iVcffed ' n their proper
" habits, and placed in cbaraJl'criiS ic oflkeir
_ i refpeiSlirc tuitions. Here jr.jy be seen the I-'oi-th
] Am rican Ravage, and the Sai age of South-Ameri
ca » ].. boring Chinese, and the Chinese CS-entle
s nißn —the feoty African, :m l the Kanitfcliadalc —
with some Kativct o' the Set th Sea [ilands. Th*
1- inlmenf: variety and inter: »ing dise: fity which
1, this Mufeuin offert to the v:i iv. may be ieer. but
le cannot be described with full ef... A. .
1- l'rice only I-Ath of a dollar,
i- i'eyt. A3, ' taw
Davis's Law Hook Store,
n A r ts. 319, High-Strut.
z~ " *
•; GEORGE DAV IS,
' r)£!NG bussed for some time pafc in prepiww
i) tions for removing into ly!s present fioufe.h; *
been under theoeceiTityof por-poninguntil thrs cay
iiiformiig the gentlemen ofthefl»r ge'nerully thn'
the Halted States, tlut his spring importation
law books is now arranged ?n«! ready for <ale, »:t
~' terms tiiat lie trwfts will ntitli him to th»likc-^*;«
freence lie has experienced so/ -everal years palt.
; Catalogues, combining) Hie niof? varied colic*
V doll ever imported into this country, are pfintuii
and will be delivsred on application.
"I June 27. oaw -
fit —, 1 -— 1 1 * —•
,sI Boston Ciafs Manufactory.
,c '
, r cit!: * lis of the United Statestai;e hereby
~ r i ii.'t.rivtd, that ot Window
G if, it J.-OW ucr.i:..'-ne..i rfte k,la:< Hcufe in BcN
, c ton 1 .
y It 14 iieeiU fs t<> f,:y any .tj:itjg of the excellent
mia,.ty. o . 11-l.ofrioii UWs, as it is so well ki'owu
throe.'i.i ur (hi- United btates to be in every rcijieA
; reat.iy fep .rior f> any evir imported from Eiirmie,
It v.-ill be cut to any lizc cuinir.bnly ufyd ; ami
,lc may be'eorftantly ha.! by applying toC«AR.t es P.
01 Ivci'. ER.at the f.ilaf- ilcufe,
Oi'dei'3 from the tjiftaiit States tc flfe addreffedto
Mr. S.miuel GoP.r, Cburt-frtcet, Ee.fton.
Lofton, ?qit sc. 1797 , O 4-«w>
J'/l'ffts ■ I"* f'; vv nn ] i r\f»fo*, Chur/t/lt,* ; ■
, Hodge ar.d Moyhnj HitUji-x, .V. C, I'i jjrt. I'.: :■
js and (/'Conrt'T, xvotfoH ; KH -j' Pt.
' Mrjh. XurXahi 8.-<nva, BM:i-■>( ; Mr. 1:>, I■ .
Nrrj.Tor.i ; and TJrJf.s. Ilti*?*.? b* CiWn '.i, j {-••'■
.■ ford; Mr. firycKUr, i'c'.wnncb ; . WjMJt i! 1 • •
tl.'ahve enjj i! zveci t vtr.'.s. Tit fj >-
cjj did li tit SitUr.