#a ./ t Hntteu States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NWMSSX 1370.]
Mits. G RATTAN
RefpeAfully informs her friendi, and the publie in
general, that oil Tuesday the loth day of January,
she propose* opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftrect,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to 1V" 11 P er y arc^
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to j/8 par yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/io per yard
Fine Golfaes ,
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to %%f per yard
India Muslin, from llfj to lif per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6f per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to to/6 per hdkf.
Mwfli" color'd and border'd Handkerchief
T>acca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from loft to itfll
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11fi to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
HuckabuckTowelling
Women's Cotton Hole, from 6/% to IJ/"per pair
Dimity from <fto to 6fn
Men's Silk Hofc
Tambour'd :nuflin Handkerchiefs from ilfti to
Irifti linens for Gentleir en's Shirts, from s/5 to qfy
And a variety of other articles.
N. B Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houlhold Linen, ice. &c.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 t-% dollars.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled itto 6 dollars
A plain lhirt, made and marked, 5 i-t dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain lhirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 71-1.
A plain lhirt. made and mark'd, 6 1-3 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. 5
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, >797-
At a meeting of the Dire&ors th ; s day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars on each fli're was declared lor the lafl
6 months, which will he paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliier.
Jan. 3. dtf.
* THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to afcerlain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
■who quitted Ireland m 1783, or 1784, amd came into
this Country, ('tis fappefed to Philadelphia J about
four years flnce, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of the highest importance, it will be thaskful
lyreceived, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
t December 31. w &sim
Washington Canal Lottery,
N®. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifa!
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, frosi th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. 1.
Viz 'i Prize of 10,000 dollars, ao,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
tJw'S"} ««»
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 ,4,000
ao ditto 100 a,opo
55 ditto jo 1,750
5 7jo ditto i» 6<»oo8
To be rsifed for the Canal, 16,150
5850 Prizis, IJSt' OOO
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commissioners have taken the Securities It
<juired by the aforefaid ad for the pnniftual payment ol
the prize*.
The drawing of tins Lottery will commence, withont
delay, as soon as tbr Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after tht
drawing is finilhed, shall be confiderrd as relinquished for
the benefit »f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
( Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Waflnnofton, Feb. 11 <
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
.city of Philadelphia.
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial Citittf of Europe —They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, ,Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
•of Frcnch Liqiiors; together with the usual refreftrments,
■will at ail times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moil
approved Malt Liquors front London and other breweries.
The Larder will with the prime and earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours mod convenient to themfelves —a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, th» Bill of Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely fnrnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
£5" Samuel Richardet will behappyto receive,and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
mgly honored. ,
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sea/on,
And fed on clever hay at the Subscribers place, 12
isiles on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro
vided, care will be taken of them
William Bell.
SAIURDAT EVENING, JA
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, isfc. &c.
This landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdiek,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut aad Sccond-ftreets,
A most capita! and extensive. Affortmcnt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, See. Sit.
Among which are,
Five kind* AfparagusHThrer kinds Cresset
Four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radilh
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli Fifteen Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Bix Carrst Four Parsnip
Three Cauliflower, Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Tea Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. ice.
With a curious collection of the molt elteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Scedfman in London, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17 5
The Stockholders of the Pennsylvania
Population Company
Are requested to meet at the C ompany's Office, No.
53, North Fourth-street, on Wednesday, the ift of
February next, at 11 o'clock, for the purpose of taking
into consideration the.proceedings of the Company, and
making further afleffments on the shares, in order
to defray the expenses of the Company agreeable to
the loth, Article of the Constitution.
By order of the Board.
SOLOMON MARACHE, Secretary.
January, 13d, 1797- dtFeb.i.
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 15, South Third-flrcet,
Hal )uft received,-per Eagle, Capt. Fofdiek, via Lon
don, an assortment of
Scarlet
Drab ( C loaks trimmed with lur awl
Purple and ( ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. 5
1
NOTICE.
Persons having Goods on board ,tk« Ship Perfever
jnce, James Williamfon, mailer, bound from Ham
burg to this Port, aHd lately pnt into New-York,
where the VefTel is dil'chargmg, will pfeafe apply to
THOMAS and JOHN KETLAND. |
Philadelphia, Jan. 11, tf
Cheap French China.
THE subscribers finding it impofßbleto supply their
(tore with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufafteries, give no
tice that they will fell at prime colt the remaining
flock nn hand, consisting of
Deflert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucer*
Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vafea
Looking Glades, in gilt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Defies, Chsirs, Tables
nad Qaadrille Boxes. PASQUIER & Co.
No. 91, South Seeond-ftreet.
Dei-entiber ?th. tt
" ccJ- NOTICE.
Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
JL North-Western Territory, heretofore adverrifed
in the several publie papers, will commence this even
ing, atthe City Tavcrm to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4 §
y PubKc Notice,
tS HEREBY GIVEN, that 1 have applied »o the
judges of the Supreme Court of this slate, to supply the
defeat in my Title to a lot of ground, fit Hate on the WeR
fide ®f KoHrth-ftreet, containing in breadth 10 feet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Wetlward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground »f Edward
Shippen, and Eallward by Fourth-street, oecafioned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewis
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux
—All persons concerned, are required to appear before
two of the juflites of the said court, at the house of
. Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief Joftice of the slate, on
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, t» make their
answer to-the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office of
Edward Burd, efq Prothonotary of the said court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1 dt3oth
For Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
Three stories high, 16 feet front, and 40 feet deep
each, and adjoining; situated on the east fide of Front,
between Kace and Vine-streets j Nos. 161 and 163.
They will be fold on very reasonable terms, either
separately or together. Apply to
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
January ij diw
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water j he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with bis trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of fivp miles an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-ftfeet between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be refilled.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 <1
T ART 28, 1797.
WM. HAT DON,
Drawing-Master, from London,
Where he has studied several years under one of
the most eminent maflers in that science, attends
youpg Ladies and Gentlemen at their refpeftivehomes.
His term* are 6 dollars per month for attendance three
times per week. Likewise all kinds of ornamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, &c. taught on the above
terms. A line direiled to W. H. left with the Editor
of this Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
Jauiaryi3. ebiw
SALT P E T R E.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pctre for
sale at No. 15, Ssuth Thii/d-ftreet.
November 5.
A CARD.
l/ Monjieur & H. Slats,
Who left Bordeaux the 10th June last, and arrived
at Boston i.bout the middle of Aaguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-flreet. who
will give him some i«foroiation of importance*
December 14, 1796. $
Wm. No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the lste arrivals,
A IVtH Sehctcd Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdaftiery Goods,
Whieh he will fell, wholeiile and retail, en the very
lovteft terms ;
Amongjl which are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Pnrniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jacanct Mufiias
Ditto in Cold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantua* of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
UmhreHai of the firft quality, assorted
lriih Linens, Very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted—Jcc. iK.
OSober 16. . , d
New-Theatre.
The Managers inform the public, that
on account of the extensive preparations for the His
torical Play of COLUMBUS, or A WORLD DIS
COVERED, there wit be no performance at the New
Theatre until Monday the 30th inft. when the above
piece will be produced, with new Scenery, Machine
ry, DrefTes and Decorations.
January 14. d
tor Sale,
By.the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
STATtS,
On the following Pojl Roa<h % will be rtctmed until
thefirji day of March next inclusive *
I. From Charleftun, S. C. \by Jackfonboro* and Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, tvvicc a week. Receivs tiie Vlail
at Charlafton every Tuelday and Friday l»y 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
A M. Returning, reccive the Mail at Savannah ev<
Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednesday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Ch&rlefton the next Tuafday and Friday
by noon.
Prtpofalx for this route will be rneivud by tie faft-majier at
Savannah.
a. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week-
Receive the mail at Coefahatchy every Thursday by 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turnings leave Beaufort tvery Friday by 3, p. m. and arrive
at Coofahatehy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposal* for carrying the mail on this rout® will be rt
c«ived by the post-master at Beaufort.
Note I. The Post-master General may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance of the contra<sU, he previously ftipu?
lating an adequate compenfatiofl for any extsa expence
that may be ocoafioned thereby.
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by eon
traA, the contra&or fliall forfeit one dollar, and .f the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars (ball be incurred.
Note 3. Should any person makin ; proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, he mud state the alteration desired and the price
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration
Note 4. The contra&s are to be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pofi Majler Genera/,
General Post Office, )
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1796.3
Vu. 26. d6w«
FOR SALE,
THE SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will *ak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 31. d
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nanct,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
iiigia Will Tail w "h all convenient speed. For
freight or pafiage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
> 3 Bales Irish Flannel., and 1 boxes Lmen»
15 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Rnffia Matts.
A lfo,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
1 OATMEAL, &c-
Novembw ix, 1796,, mwftf
To be Sold by Public Vendue,
On Saturday, the 28th January, at the Merchants'
Csffee-Houfe,
A NOTE,
Drawn by William Burgifs and Co. of South
Third-flreet, near Market-street, Linen Drapers, in
favour of Robert Burgifs, jun. or order, tor 6go
dollari. The said Note became due the 30th Dee.
lift, and was protcfted for non payment.
For approved notes at 6a days.
January 2
FOR SALE,
About i,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, is
four separate Patents. For terms ot fate apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
N». 64, Sauth Srcond-ftreet
January 16. mw»f
Waihington l ottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchangsd for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut
l*reet, where a corre<a Numerical Book is kept for public
infpedion, Ah o Canal Lottery Tickets for I'ale or ex
changed for prises diawn in the Walhingtou Lojtery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received. -
1 h. BuQnefs ot a Broker carried on as Uinal.
January 11. ttstf
All Persons having Demands
Againit the Eilate of the late 'J homas Franklin,
deceased, art desired to bring in their accounts for
settlement; and those indebted to make immediate
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, ") c
WALTER FRANKLIN, or > Ejcec ®-
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, 3 tor *-
January 44th, 1796. eoaw
Wants a Situation,
As a Housekeeper, an Englilh woman, completely
qualified in every relpeil to keep a Gentleman's House.
Enquire of the Printer.
January 26 *?t
Davis's Law Book Store,
\ No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces te his profeffional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
\jnion, that his late importation ot BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready tor Sale, from a single volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which lor leveral years paA have in so dilWnguiihed a
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the moil extensive collec
tion cl the lateli Engkih ana Infh Editions ever imported
into this cottntry } are pebliiHed, and will be delivered gta:i«
on application.
Orders addressed to G. D. in writing from any distance
(hallbe punctually attended te.
A number of TRUNKS for Sale
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Ma\kei. iktreet Wharf.
ov.B. ta&forr
FOR SALE,
At Whiteiides' Tea Ware-House,
Ac. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial r Hyson Skin.
Hyson, > Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyfen, J CBohca
Doc. 9. 3taw^m.
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentifl to the
King and Rdyal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortinent of every thing neceflary
to be used for-the
Preservation of *he Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifiee in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
also Bruihes and foft Sponges.
*** He lives in Chefaut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve
Fourth-street.
November »6. tts
For Sale, or Charter,
jgan The Ship DIANA,
ffigsfSlVi Samutl Pile, Master,'
Burthen 405 47-95 ,ons register, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar, and was ftieathed 13 months ago, ftie
has just had a compleat out-fit, ami may be sent to fe*
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin E3 5 C«*
Who have for fate on beard said veffil,
17 caflts of fine yellow paiwt.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing dates.
I box ink stands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail oanv-afs.
And on hand,
Imperial
Hyson, and, f TEAS.
Souchong )
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firft quality.
19 tubs Qmckfilver.
t chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few ch.fts Myichefter goodswefl assorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, Ac.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
lito crates Queens ware well aflbrted.
to tons sheet lead.
Nails aflbrted, flat and fkatp points.
London Particular, "5 , . ....
London Market, i P ' P< "
New-York Market, 5 " d
40 pipes and 10 hogsheads Teneriffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
130 logs Mahogany.
Nov 7. tth&ftf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber en the 23d o<3ob?r,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; i, years
old; about 5 feet $ inches high; had on a mkctd green
coat, with a green velvet cape md oval yellow buttons 5
a striped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
bis ntfnie and dress. He has been accuftoined t® driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will "be
paid for fecurmg him so that the fubferiber may get hitn
again, and if brought home all reafonsble charges paid by
Robins Chamberlains.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 tjnjjawtf
[Volume XI.Letter to .-5' V. Pitukney, ■ Minijier PlempHtcihiary of
the United States to the French Republic.
Continued.
[CON TIN U.E D.J
Vie fee then, that in forming cojine&ions with us in
i-; 8, the Court of France, the a<9ual organ of the
lotion, liad 110 regard to the interest of the United
Spates.: but that their objeA was, by feiiting the
f:on of dismembering the British empire, to diminish
the power of a formidable rival : anithat when, after
we had carried on a d ift re fling war for seven years, the
great objeA for which we had contended, Independ
ence, was within our rearfi, that Court endeavored to
postpone the acknowledgement of it by GreSt Britain,
irnl eventually to deprive us of its faireft fruits—a just
extent of territory—the navigation of the Miffifippi—
Tiind the Fishery.
Snch'being the motives arid condu<S of France, what
ir.fpired our truly gratefal fentiraents towards that na
-tion ? The ardent afl'edlion, the fincerr friendftiip of A
>.iericans to Frenchmen ? We were engaged in a com
mon caofrajiirtft Groat' Britain— received loans of
lnonry.—we were aided by troops aad Aips in attack
ing and conquering tke common enemy in the t.ofom
o. our country ; and this afiociation in war produced
-acquaintances and perfooal friendships : and experienr
ingthefe benefits, we gave way to our feelings, with
out inquiring into themotives from which they were
rendered.
But why are we so often reminded of the debt of
-gratitude? Is it really more than gratitude—because
compensation is txpefled, to cancel it ? If compensati
on is the objeiS, tire treaty of alliance has absolved the
claim—" The_contraaing parties declare, that being
u resolved to fulfil, each on its own part, the clauses
•' and conditions of the present treaty of alliance, ac
' lts own power and circumstances, there
' Jball.be no after claim ef compensation, rm one fide or
' tneither, whatever may bethe event of the war."
■ lam here naturally led to notice Mr. Adet's charge,
already mentioned, —That iue have not offered to
France the fuse ours which friend/hip might have given
•without comprmiit'mg the government.
If Mr Adet had fpecified the kind of succours which
might thus have been offered, we could better iudjre of
the correflnefs of his assertion.
But is it true that we have rendered no succours so
t ' le following paflages in the Secretary
of State s letter of the i&th of August, 1703, to Mr.
Morris. ■« \\ e recoiled* with fatisfatfion, that in the
« eourfeof two years, by unceasing exertions, we paid
up seven years arrearages and instalments of our debt
to France, which the irtefficac-y of our firft form of
government had fufiered to be accumulating; that
" pressing on still to the entire fulfilment of our en
gagements, we have facilitated to Mr. Genet the ef
" fe<3 of the inftalmentsof the present year, to enable
him to fend relief to his fellow-citizens in France,
threatened with famine ; that in the firft moment of
, U? e "^ which threatened the colony of St.
•' Domingo, we stepped forward (so their relief with
arms and money, taking freely on ourselves the rife
"Of an unauthorized aid, when delay would have
been denial'' —that we have given the exclusive ad
mission to fell here the prizes made by France on her
enemies in the present war, though unftipnlated in
our treaties, and unfounded in her own pradlice or
♦' in that of other rations, as we believe.''
To this detail I hjve to add, That, of all the Loans
and luppl.;, received from France in the .Vtnericau
War, amounting nearly to fifty-three millions of livres,
the United States u:i<W their late G»v«rnment had
been enabled to pay not two millions and a half of liv
ics ; that the present government after paying tip the
arrearages and instalments mentioned by Mr. Jefferfon,
has been continually anticipating the fubftquent inftal
menti, untii in the year 1795 the whole of our debt to
france was discharged, by anticipating the payment of
eleven millions and a half of livres ;.no part of which
■would have becomc due until the second s>f September,
1796, and then only one million and a half 1 the resi
due at subsequent periods ; the last not until the year
lies. '
1 There remain yet various passages in Mr. Adet's
Notes on which some observations are to be made
In my lettrr of the firft of November last, in an
swer to Mr. Adet's note of Oflober 47, in which he
communicated the Decree of the Executive Directory
of the 2d of July last, declaring that the flag of the
republic of France ihould treat the flag of neutrals in
the fame manner as these {hall fuffer it to be treated by
the English, I afeed an explanation of the decree ; men
tioning the circumstances which excited doubts. There
feeraed to be lufficient cause for enquiry. Had the
Decree referred to the paji captures by the i nglilh,
our knowledge of them would have been some guide in
forming our epinion of tne threatened captures by tl*
French : but the operation of the decree was to depend
on the future condutf of the English ; the French
were to treat the flag of neutrals as these [/hallfuffer it
t» be* treated by the Englift. As this could not be as
certained beforehand, we wiftied to know whether the
restraints then exercised by the British Government
were com'idsred as of a nature t* juftify a denial of
those rights which were pledged to us by our treaty
•with Fiance ? Whether the orders had aSually been
given to eapture the veflels ef the United States ? And
■if given, what were the precise terms of those orders ?
Mr. Adet in his reply fays that I appear not to have
linderftood either the Decree of the Direflory or his
Note which accompanied it. The meaning of the
Decree is certainly not very obvious. The manner of
executing it, was declared to depend on a contingency
—the future condncft of the Englift. How were the
French cruifcrs in the four quarters of the World, to
determine v>hat was the condufl of the Englift at any
given time ? If he could have furnifted a copy of the
orders afloally given to French armed vefTels, under the
decree, we might have seen clearly what were the in
tentions of the Directory. If we are to take the prac
tice of the French armed veflels and of some of the
)'reach tribunals as the true illustration of the decree,
Mr. Adet's own explanation will be very defedlive. Ho
has fpecified only two cases, the taking at Englift (or
other enemy's) property on board American vessels and
the seizure of all the goods classed ,1 contraband in our
treaty with; Great Britain. In the cafe of contraband
the seizure of them is lawful only when they are
deßjned to the.ports of enemies; and 'the contraband
goods only are liable to confifration. But the fperial a
gents of the Directory in the Weft-Indies order the
leizure of all vefTels-haying on board contraband goods,
r,o matter whether destined to an enemy's, or to a neu- 1
tral, or even tea French port j and when seized, they <
«onmcate not merely the contraband articles, but all ,
other goods, and the vessel hcrfelf in which they are
laden. They also afiigt, in their decrees of confifcation
another came of capture and condemnation— that the
American vessel has failed to or from a port in pufiTeffi- I
on of the Englift. We art not informed that the En- 1
gblh take any neutral vessels for this cause. We have
heard of Tevcral American vessels being captured and
' onfifcated by the French merely because they had not 1
a fc-a-letter, when no doubt could have been entertain
r'l "[ the property being American. Yet it is concciv- 1
rd that the- want of a f«a letter was never intended to (
.rachitic other proof* of'property..
Further, ought we to have imagined that the
I ecutive J)ire£tory intended to leave it to the
rfiT'.wtioc of every privateer, and of every inferior
tribunal to judge what at any time fulfequtnt to
. I heir decree was the eflua'l treatment received by
f American vessels from "the Britift > Ought we t°
have imagined that the decree was formed in such
indefinite terms on purpdfe to give scope for arbi
trary conftru&ion, and consequently for Unlimited
e . oppreflion ? Ought we to ha»e imagined what Mr/
d' Adet has himfelf declared to fee the meaning of the
. decree, that the French armed vcfTcls were not to
content themfelvcs wuh capturing American vef-
T having English property or contraband .goods
e on board, and getting such property and goods
J condemned by their tribunals ; but if any English
commanders were to praaife «< vexations" towards
ft Americans, that Frenchmen were to do the fame ?
- Ought we to have imagined that the Diicftory in
tended the citizens of France rtiould be encouraged
t to take revenge on their frie»(Js for the outrages of
" their enemies ? And wliat is to limit fhefe vexati
. on « ■ If one Englift commander in a hundred per
f. verfely and wanteul) abuses his power, is every
French officer to become his rival in dishonor ? Or
1 we are to fuffet only meafuFe far measure (and
i surely the decree goes not beyond this) who is to
designate the every hundredth French officer who
' is to be the instrument of similar oppression ?
But French armed vessels are to wake all these
f "P tare ' ln of the treaty, and we arc to
e fuffer all these vexations in violation of reafan and
- humanity, while we endure them from the Englift
f " without an efficacious opposition !'' And what
> •ppefition will be deemed ejicacioui t For all cap
' tures made by the British contrary to the law of ea
'jo"' have, agreeably to tkat law, demanded fa
r f'?? ' rhe hs(Ve engaged to make us
atisfattian ; and commissioners are now fitting to
, liquidate those demands. What opposition could
0 have been more efficacious ? What further oapefiti
• on can be lawful )
t Instead of further comment* on this -fubjedt, let
f mc present to yon some passage* in Mr. Adet's let
ter of the 14th of July 1795.* In this letter he
, communicated to the secretary of state the decree
' °f 'he committee of public fafety of the 3d of Ta.
• nuary repealing the sth article 01" the de
j crce of the 1 yth of November 1794.! The lat
t ter violated our treaty by fubjefting the property
r of the enemies of France on board American ves
t iels to capture, and by adding to the lift of ,rti
. cles contraband : It was therefore repealed by the
■ Mr. Adet feired this occasion to make
■ the following declaration. «« Yrvu will fee, fir,
f „ ,n b , otl » C th e decrees] the undisguised
difpafitton and fmcere desire of the French go
-1 " y e ["ment religiously to obfeive the engagements '
: it has contrasted with it. allies, and its readiness
; to redrrls inflations which have never taken
• " place but from the impulse of circumstances."
It is arm id ft her triumphs that the republic loves '
. " to give this striking mark of, its fidelity. Vic- 1
" torious France knows no otherconcern than that '
of justice—no other diplomatic language than
truth, to this justice,
to this fidelity, we now make our appeal : <
From the ftil< of Mr. Adet's complaint of the 1
British Iwgfufered to arm in our ports, it might 1
be imagined the instance* were numerous. None 1
were permitted ; the aHual armaments were few : 1
and are as old as the year 1793, and were repre 1
fented by Mr. Genet to the secretary of state. 1
What answer (aflc. Mr. Adet) did the govern- 1
ment give to the representations of the minister 1
ot the French republic in this refpc& ? It said 1
that these vefTels failed too Suddenly ; that it \yas '
" not able to cause them t»be stopped." The an- 1
fwer was given by the secretary of state in different '
words.J " Those from Charleston and Philadelphia 1
have gone off before it ivat known to the govern
" ment, and the former indeed in the firft moments !
" of the war, and before preventive measures could
be taken i« so diflant a port." In the cafe of 1
the Trusty Captain Hale, at Baltimore, the Go- 1
vernor of Maryland having been informed that she 1
had been buying gun, had given orders to examine «
the fatt •« but /he got off before the officer could '
get on board, having cleared ftit three or four
' da y s before." I have not ebferved that Mr. '
Genet ever renewed his complaint with regard to {
any of these vessels, Whence f suppose he was fa- 1
, tished with the answer : as indeed l.e ought to J
f"' of-,"', ,T tc two En « li ' b "ffels that failed I
from - tiiladelphia escaped even the vigilance ef the k
French ConfulJ —both had departed many days be- "
fere he had been informed of them. Thisisftated 8
by the Consul himfelf in his report of the 21ft of
June 1793, to Mr. Genet. And yet the govern
ment is now charged by Mr. Adet with violating
the treaty because it did not stop them !—Altho'
the officers of the United States had been requi-ed
to be watchful, and to report all illegal armaments
in our ports, yet it was Natural for the government
to cxpeft to derive information from the French
Consuls, who doubtless were charged by their own
government labe particularly vigilant in regard to
all attempts at such armaments by the «nemies of
the republic. Mr. Adet remat ks that " some inba
" ,aa, I Bef the Um'ed States had aided in these
" illegal armaments of the enemies of France
and aftcs, «« what measures were taken agaiuft them ?
Wat any fearcli made todifcover them—to pro
" fccutethem ? Nevc,"_Y, t the veiy letter from
Mr. Genet to the secretary of state, in which and
its inclofures Mr. Adet has found this fubjeft of
complaint, fuggafts a different conclusion. "IS
" learn with pleasure (fays Mr. Genet) by your b
" letter of the 23d of this month [June 1793] '
that the government of Georgia have caused to a
be flopped a vefTel armed in that state, for the K
" purpose of cruising against the French, and that lj
" the perfors interested in this vessel will be pro- h
" fecuted."|| r ti
I ftiall fay but a few words on the fubjeft of the 0
letttrs of which Mr. Adet complained they n '
remained unanswered. The firft (of Sept. 29th, u
'79f) contained those reproachful insinuations u
which were recited in ray letter o.f the ift of Nov. b'
Wh T w e.e these introduced by bira if they
were not to Le applied ? An answer was draughted
on thefubjea of his letter, with animadverfians®n tl
# '—: —-— 1 cf
14th Nivofe- 3d year. • r fl
f 25 th BrumaiVc, 3<i year.
£ Stats Papers, p. 4 r. Juce jc, 170 c. '
J State papers, p. 41. ll
j| State >>apsi», p. 40.
' thole inSnuations : bt: desiring to avoid irritat; >ns
> the answer was not sent. It was deemed of the
l less consequence, feeing in ray letter to Mr. Mon
roe of Ihe 12th of September 1 1795, the fenti
i, menu and reasonings of the government o» that
. and other fubje&s relating '.«> France had been fully
t cxprefied, to enable him to make immediate com
-1 munications to the French government itfelf *; and
it was hoped That the information given in that let
s tec, and in otheis written to him the preceding
s finamer, would have furnifhed materials (and that
1 these materials would have been timely used) foi
s such representations as would have fatisfied the
? French government, that the United States, in
. forming the treaty with Great-Britain, had only
J exercised an indifputablc right : and neither by
f that treaty nor any other aft had infringed a fin
. gle article of our treaties with France.
On the fubjeft of the imprefles of our seamen,
f mentioned in Mr. Adet* s letters ef March and A
r pril 1796, I (hall only add, that nothing was more
J notorious than that those imprefles had excited uni
> rerfal refentw.ent in the United States, and been
j the fubjeft of repeated remonstrance from our go
vernment to the British court. Thus in Mr. Pinck
c ney's note to .Lord Grenville in Aug. 1793, which
> was published here that year, in the fame colle&ian
1 of State paper* with Mr. Jefferfon's letter of Sep
! tember 7th* which Mr. Adet has quoted, and on
I the sth page next succeeding it, we find the so!
lowing : " Under this head, it may be observed,
. " that for want of arrangements being made for
. " the feenrity of American seamen in the ports«f
I " this country (England) they are fubjeft to the
, " various hardships Mr Pinckney'has so frequently
| " detailed to Lord Grenville." And in the next
■ P a i? e i ' n his letter to Mr. Jefferfon, Mr. Pinckney
fays—" The protection afforded our seamen re
" mains also on the fame footing ; they (the Bri
" tifti government) protrfs a wiUingnefs to secure
, 1t to us all real American seamen, when proved to
" be such ; but the proof they will not dispense
" with." To remove as far as poflible the embar
rassments irifing ftom this cause, and more efieftii
ally to protest our seamen, was the ohjeft of a bill
pending in congress, and the fubjeft of public dc
bate, at the time I received Mr. Adet'i letters.
This bill was paflsd into a law.
All these acts demonstrated that the government
did not aflent, but on the contrary that they refif
tcd the impressment of American seamen ; and
this refinance has been continued confeqtiently
we cannot be charged on this ground with a violati
on of our neutrality.
Among the former fubjefts of complaint not
now renewed by Mr. Adet, is that against the go
vernment for permitting the purchase and exporta
tion of horses, by British agents, in the course of
the lift winter and spring. The correspondence on
this fubjeft is lengthy ; and yet the question lies
within a very narrow compass.
Perhaps no rule is now better established, than
that neutral nations have a right to trade freely with
nations at war ; either by carrying and felling to
them all kinds of merchandise, or permitting them
to come and purchase the fame commodities in
neutral territory ; in the latter cafe, not refufing
to one power at war what it permits another to
purchase ; with this exception in refpeft to articles
contraband, that if the cruisers of one of the bel
ligerent powers meet at sea with neutral veflels la
den with such articles destined to the potts of their
enemies, the neutral veflels may be captured, and
the contraband goods will be lawful prize to the
captors : but the refidne of their cargo and the
veflels themselves ire to be discharged.
But if there were a»-y doubt on this paint under
the law of nations, there can be none in relation to
France and the United States ; because this mat
ter is specially regulated by their treaty of com
inercc. 1 his treaty, so far from retraining the
trade of either party remaining neutral, while the
other is engaged in war, provides regulations agree
ably to which it Jhould be couduSed.
The 12th and 13th articles authorize either par.
ty that is at war, to flop the neutral merchant ve(-
fels of the other destined to the ports of an enemy,
upon just grounds of suspicion, concerning the voy
age or the lading. If on examining the (hip's pa
pers it appears there are any contraband goods on
board " consigned for a port under the obedience
" of his enemies" (he may be earned into port,
and the contraband articles may, by regular pro
ceedings in the admiralty, be conhfcated : " saving
" always as well the fliip itfelf as any other goods ,
" found therein, whieh by this treaty are to be ef
" teemed free : neither may they be detained on
" pretence ot their being as it were infected by !
" the prohibited goods, much less (hall they be
" confifcated as lawful prize."—lt further pro- !
vides, that if the matter ef the neutral (hip (hall be
willing ta deliver the contraband goods to the cap.
tor, and the latter receives them, then is the neu i
tral (hip to be forthwith discharged and allowed
freely to profeiute her voyage. The 23d article '
goes further—if the neutral (hip (hill have on board
the inemiet of the other " they are not to be taken
" ont unless they aieftidier; in allualfervice."
These articles are so explicit, it may seem strange
that a donbt (hould arise concerning them ; I pre
sume no doubt did arise j for Mr. Adet, overlooking
these provisions of the treaty, demanded that the
government (hould flop the exportation of horses,
by the British, upon the principle that it was a neu
tral duty required by the law of nations. An 1
answer was given to his demands* in which the re- 1
gulations of our treaty with France were particu- 1
larly brought into view, as well as the rules of the
law of nations. Mr. Adet, however, after some '
time renewed his claims; but again kept the treaty «
out ef fight. An answer was given to these re- >
newed claims ; and we heard no more of the fubjeft <
until the French privateers in the Wcit-Indies began 1
to capture American veflels which had horfet on 1 '
board. You will find amoog the documents on c
this fubjeft, the copy of a decree of the citizens '
Victor Hugues and Lebas, the special agents of' 1
the Executive Dircftory in the windward islands,
condemning an American vejjel and her entire cargo, r
for having a small number ef horfet on board not '
hound to their enemy't but to a neutral port. And
the special agents ground their decree on the advice r
* Mr. Ad«t by mistake dates it September I,3th,
s they rtce'vud from Mr. Adet, under the date of the
c 14th Mcfridar, beingjuly 2d, 1796. This veflel
- and cargo were tlrus condemned without the fight
. of a Angle paper belonging tc» Her : the maftjr had
t them in his pocket, and would have brought them
f home, but for the recollection of the interpreter,
• some hours after the sentence of condemnation had
i been puffed. These citizens exercise indeed a very
- brief authority. The process in the cafe of a second
j; American vet Tel, which to complete her lading had
t taken on board nineteen horfts, but which was alio
t bound to a neutral port, was in this form. The
s captain having come before one of the agents, he,
1 without any previous examination or hearing, id
)' dressing himfelf to the captain, pronounced len
s tence in these words—" 1 have your
. vessel and cargo"—closing the sentence with op
ptobious language.
, Mr. Adet, on the 18th of May'laft, revived his
. predeceflor's claim of right by treaty to fell their
t prizes in our ports. This occafioncd the corref
. pondeuce on this fubjedt, which you will
1 among the documents collected on this occaiion.
. He contents himfelf, however, with considering it
. as a right granted not positively, but by imp/ieation.
, That is, because the treaty forbids the enemies of
1 France to fell their prizes in our ports —therefore it
. grants to her a right of felling her prizes. As if my
j friend's denial of a favor to my enemy, was in fact
a grant of the fame favor to me. Tne limple
, llatemeut of the ground of the claim would seem
fnfficient to fhev that the treaty will »ot support
f it. That tales of French prizes have been at all
permitted, has been owing to the indulgence of the
1 government. This indulgence was cwntiuued until
it interfered with a new positive obligation : an
• obligation precisely the fame that France herfelf
contested eight yearsfuhfequent to her treatv with
us, and with the fame power. This obligation is
found in the 24111 article of our treaty," and the
, ifcth of the French treaty, with Great Britain.
Thus France and the United States alike engaged
to permit no enemy of Great Britain to arm priva
teers in their ports, »r te fell their prices there, or in
any maniier to exchange them. Consequently had
I' ranee remained at peace, and we engaged ir. a
war with Great Britain, our privateers wuuld not
be permitted to fell theit prizes in French potts.
And by the maritime law of France*, prize*, ex
cept they are taken from her enemies, can stay in
her ports bo more than 24 hours, unless compelled
by temped to remain longer; and the sales of fych,
prizes are forbidden under severe penalties. But
notwithstanding the certainty of our rigi t to tar
bid the fa/es of prizes in our ports, and notwitb.
(landing the express legal command of the Chief
Justice of The United States holding a circuit court
m South-Carolina in May last prohibiting the falc
of a particular prize (the Britirti ship Amity) at
Charleston—the French agents fold the p.iz eve/Tel
and the sale received the formal fanaion of the
French consul. Yet even this affair has been made
a fubjed of complaint by Mr. Adet, because the
collefitor of that port rcfufed a clearance to the prize
veflel thus fold in defiance of the authoirty of the
United States ; and because he also delayed until,
in a new cafe, he (hould get advice, to peimit the
exportaticn of the cargo of the prize ship, which
on a survey had been reported to be irreparable.
indeed the French minister has difcorered an
aptitude to complain. I may cite, as inftancei,
his letters of the 9 th of January and 3 d'of March
I7SKJ : the former, because the colours of France,
which he had prcfented to the United States, were
not permanently fixed and displayed before Con
grtis : the latter, because some printers of Alma-
Hacks, or other periodical publications it) the
United States, in arranging the names of the foreign
miniftere and agent, residing amongff us, had pla ed
those of Great Britain before those of France and
pain, i r. Adet desired my declaration in writing
that the government of the United States had no
concern m printing the works in wl,i?h the agents
of the French ie H ublic were regiltered after those
■ , B " tal "' ' and ,hat the works themfelve*
might be fupprefTd. J gav e him ananfwerjn writinr
with my corfent to his publithing i, i n the news-
EETtH y 10 W ' s The answer
itates that ,n matter, of this kind the government
| did no nor could not i H ,erfere. With regard t.
1 our for!""' i m " obfcrVf ' ,h>t in what concerns
j our foreign relations, the President being the sole
! representative of the United States, fhey were
1 properly preferred to him. He received them
! de»ofit!d P °- h rCfpea ' a " d directed them 10 be
, d pofitedwith our,national archives, that both
might be prefervej with equal care. ,
« t! ? e " fumma 'y of complaints rx-
I for f • De U Croix ' the F ™ch minister
|ps ?" affa "'« <0 Mr. Monroe, our minister at
Pans under the date of March 9 th, ,796, ,0
'It" ft la , ,terr « u " answer, under the
| date of March , Jt h. These we're inclosed in Mr.
Monroe s letter of the ,d of May, and received at
the department of state on the 19th of July. .Copies
of both papers, and an extract of so much of his
letter as relates to the fubjeft, are .mono the do
cunents now collefled.
F ' rft complaint— I The inexecution fef treaties.
1 he courts of justice have taken and flill
take cpgnifance of prize, brought by French priva
tee" P 9rt, °/,he United States. ,
,t, 2 f ' war ' lavc keen admitted into
thole ports, even in cafe, prohibited by the 17th
aT ic co 11c treaty ; that is, when they hare made
prizes on t e French republic or its citizens ; and
have also conduced thither their prizes.
, 3<l ' 1 C °nf«l a r Convention has in two points
become illusory. ,ft. For WRnt of g!yjng |he
consuls the mean, ofhavmg their decisions executed
in all difputesl between Frenchmen, of which the
consuls have the exclusive ccgnifance. 2d. Because
eju ges charged with issuing warrants for appie
hend.ng French mariners who desert, require the
original roll of the crew to bi firft pioduced. 4th.
The arrest of the Corvette Le Caffius and her Cap
tain. , r
Second Complaint. The impunity of the out.
rage committed or the Republic in the person of
its Mimfter, the Citizen Fauehet, by the English
ship Alnca. in concert with the Vice Cor ful of that
nation, within the waters of the Uniud^tatcs.
Valin, vt>L p. 7,jt.Third Complaint—The Treaty concluded in
November 1794, between the United States and
1 Great Britain.
Excepting the fecoad complaint, relative to the
attempt of the Eng!i(h (hip Africa to seize Mr.
Fauchet an his papers—and the 3d article under
the firft complaint relative to the Crinfular conven.
tiott, all the charges i„ this summary have been al
ready examined, and we think proved to be un
founded.
As to the Consular Convention, many inconven
iences would attend the giving of the Consuls aju
rifuiftion to the extent contended for on the part of
the French Republic, to be exercised by French
Consuls in the United States, and confeqtirnlly by
American Consuls in France. The inconveniences
arc mnaSfeftly/o great as to require very explicit
language in the Convention of the two Nations
on this jubjeft, to authorize the conclusion that
such an enlarged jurifdiftion was intended. It
would beto erect in foreign iountries complete courts
of J'jftice, with effe&ual process to compel the ap
pearance of parties and witnefles, and to execute
their decisions. And a* the tranfaftions ef com
merce and navigation could not in the nature of
things be confined to the foreigners alone,| the Citi
zens of the Country mult often be necessary witnef
les to these tranfaftions, and of course rendered a
menable tp this foreign jurifliftion in their own
cou try : whereat the juridiction demanded is only
of French Consuls over French citizens in the Uni
ted States ; and reciprocally of American Conluls
over the citizc sos the United States in France.
From these roi fiderations a p'efumption would a
rise, that the ju> if«tifti<in contemplated in the Con
sular Convention was to be merely voluntary, but
at the fame time txclujive of the Courts of tht Coun
try. An examination of the convention we believe
will support thia and no other conftrudion. The
12th Article provides that all differences and suits
between Frenchmen in the United States, and be
tween Citizens of the United States in France, and
particularly all disputes between seamen and their
Captains, and between Captains of different veffcls
•f their nation (hall be determined by the refpeftive
Consuls, either by reference to arbitrators, or by a
summary judgment an d without co/!s "No officer
•' of the Country, Civil or Military ; (hall inter
" fere therein, or take any part whatever in the
matter."—This last elaufe alone would seem fnffi
cient to repel the claim we are considering. Sher
iffs, Marshals, and tiieir Deputies tannot aid in
the execution of Consular desifions, because they
are " Officers of the Country'' expressly forbidden
to " take any part in the matter." But was it
meant that the laws (hould give Consuls the power
to appoint fseh executive officers of their own na
tion ? We find no such thing in the Convention
On the contrary in the cafe of deserters from vef
fcls mentioned in the 9th article, whom the Consuls
are authorised to cause to be arrclled, they are ex
pressly diretted to apply in writing to the " courts,
" Judges and Officers competent" to make the
arrells ; meaning the Courts, Judges and Officers
of the Country where the Conluls reside. Betides,
tf power could be given to Consuls to appoint offi
cers to execute their decisions, these officers most
of course have their (ees of compensation to be paid
by one or ether of the parties : but the 12th Ar
tide declares that the Consular judgment (hall be
41 without cotts."—To these observations I sub
join the deliberate opinions of two refpeftable law
yers, Mr. Harrifon of New-York, and Mr. Brad
ford, the late Attorney General of the United
States. "'1 have considered the tjth Article of
" the Convention between his late most Christian
" Majctty and the United States of America, and
" also the ait ef Congrcfs conccrm'ng Conluls and
" Vise Consuls, so far as it prcfcribes the duty of
" Marshals of the United States, and it is my opin
" ion that the Marshals are not bound by law to
execute any sentence ef a French Confu!, arif
41 ing under the said Article.
RICHARD HARRISON,
*. Attorney United States, for the New-York
" Diftrift.
" New-York 6th March 1794.."
f I have considered the Convention and aft a
" bove referred to, and I p«rfe<ily coincide in the
" opinion given by the Attorney of the United
" States for the Diftrift ot New York.
Wm. BRADFORD."
" Philadelphia, 14th March 1794."
The other complaint under this oead is, that ]
the Judges who are charged (by aft ofCongrefs) !
to ifftie warrants of arrest against deserters from
French veffcls have require.! the original ship's roll 1
to prove that the men alleged to have deserted were
a part of the Crew ; in contempt of the ytli Arti
cle which admits in the tribunals of both Countries
copies certified by the Consul.
if we look at the gth article of the Consular trea
ty we (hall fee that the Cohfuls who demand the
Errefts of <lefetters' from veflels of their nation, must
prove " by an exhibition of thetegiftcrs of the vef
" fcls or ships roll, that those men were" part of
" the Crew." It isapparent that the original roll,
sind not a copy is here referred to ; nor indeed is the
contrary pretended ; but it isfaicTthat the jtfc Ar- !
ticle admits certified Consular copies as evidence in
the Courts of both nations. But the sth article
appears to have no relation to the fubjeft of the 9th.
It ftipufctes that " the Consuls refpeftively shall
" have the exclusive right of receiving in their
" chancery, er on board of veflels, the declarations
41 and all othet acts which the Captains, Masters,
44 CrewSj Passengers and Merchants of their nation
* 4 may choose to make there, even their testaments
44 and their disposals by last will : and the copies
" of the said aSs, duly authenticated by the said
• 4 Consuls, under the seal ef their Conftilatc, shall
44 receive faith in law, equally as their originals
4! would." The (hip's roll (or (hipping paper)
of a veflels ctew is not an aft to be done, before the
Consul, but evidence of a private agreement be
tween the Captain of a veflfel and his crew; and
vhen he alleges that any of them, have deserted,
the 9th article requires this original evidence ef the
fact to be produced to the Judge as the ground on
which he shall issue hie warrant to arrest them.
And this is the conftruftion put on this article by
the J udgeg; and for ought 1 know, without any
diversity of opinion. The difference alleged hy
Mr. Fauchet in one of his L-trers to the Secretary
of State I have inquired into ; and find he wai
under a mistake. Amd the mistake srsfe probably
from this circumstance, that whsn from the infor
mation of the Confu! there was danger that the
deserter would wholly escape unless instantly ap
prehended. the Judge hag ifiued his warrant to ar
rest and bring before him the alleged deserter ; but
whe« brought, that Judge has not committed the
Man, or delivered him to the Consul, unless the
original toll was produced tp prove him one of the
(hip's crew.
As to the outrage agaioft Mr. Fauchet by the
Africa Man of War, in attempting to fciee him
and his papers within the jurifdiftirm of the United
States, and Captain Home's insult on their au
thority, I do not knew what measures more effica
lious could have been taken by the Executive than
these which were adopted to obtain fatisfaftion.
After waiting a reasonable time for explanations)!)
the part of Gapt- Home, and of Mr Moore the
Engliih Vice-Consul, and receiving none, the
President revoked the Exequatur of the Vice-Con
sul, and desired the Governor of Rhode 1(1 nd,
where the Africa had been lying to communicate
to Captain Home the demand of the President -,
That he (hould immediately remove from a ft at ion •
within the jurifdiftion of the United States where
he had violated their rights ; and further to make
known to him,, that in forty-eight hours after the
requisition (hould be communicated to him, all in
tercourse between the United States and his (hip'
would be forbidden. I is very true that the Ex
equatur of the British Vice-Consul was wilhdfawn
expressly for his knowingly tranfmittihg to the
Governor of Rhode-Island a moll insulting letter
from captain Home: becatife altho'he was on board
the Africa when the attempt was madeagainft Mr.
Fauchet, the Prefideat had no evidence of his co
operation. The Mmifter of the United States in
Lor don, was directed to represent to that Court
the conduct of capt. Home, and to iemand his
exemplary punishment. It was not to be expefteth
that he would be judged unheard j and consequent
ly much delay muff have ensued. From her liation
ontfe coall ttf North Amenca, the Africa went
to the Weft Indies. Seeing sometime since by an
article in the news-papers that the Africa waß re
turning to England, our Minilter in London was
reminded of tin's affair, that tlie demand of fatisfac
tian might be renewed.
[To be concluded in our next. J
LANDS FOR SALE.
be fold by Public Auction, ®n VVecinefday the
ift day of February next, at the Merchant's
Coffce-houfe, in the city ef Philadelphia, at 6 o'clock
in the evening, sundry Tra<ss of Land, being part of
theeftate of Benjamin Town, late of New-Jerlcy, de
ceased, viz.—
Two trails, one of 315 14 and the other 301 1-4
acres, in the townlhip of Wyoming, county of Nor
thumberland, and itate of Pennsylvania, conveyed by
deed, dated 17th September, 1782, from Aaron Levy
and wife, to benjamin Town.
One trail of 3 11 acres, on the dividing of Mahoning
and I'lihing creeks, in the county aforefaid, granted to
Benjamin own, by warrant, 18th February, 1775.
One tratft of 150 acres, near or adjoining the Lit
mentioned trail, in the fame county, -ranted to Ben
jamin Town, by warrant, ißlh February, r77j.
One trait of 300 acres, on a small branch of Jacob's
creek, in thecnuntyof IVeftmoreiand, ftateofPenn
fylvania, conveyed by deed," dated icth. February,
1781, by William Perry to Benjamin Town.
Ten traits of 1000 acres an the waters of
Little Kenhawa river and Big Steer creek, in the coun
ty of Monnngahalia, state of Virginia, per patent, dated
ictn July, 1786.
Further particulars and terms of paymeHt will be
made known at the time and place of l'ale.
JOHN FIKLD, } „ . '
CURTIS CLAY,S Trust "'-
Pftiladelphia, January 18, J79F7. . 4t
Notice to the Poor.
THE Guardians of the Poor will deliver bread to the
Poor of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia, on
Tuesday the 31ft instant, at Friends' Meet ng-houfe,
at the corner of High and Second streets, between the
hours of ten and twelve, agreeably to thelaft wills of
Jonathan Petty and William Carter, dceeafed.
January 28, 1797.
Houf' S and Lots for sale,
BY the Subscriber, in the town of Well-Chcfier, Chef
tcr county, 15 mi.es from Philadelphia, on the gj-eat
data-road, leading Weft ward Viz. No. 1. A two ilory
Stone House, the cornur of High an Gay streets, 40 feet
front by 34 feet deep including a very convenient flcre
heufe : theHouft contains ten well finilhed rooms, a kit
chen and tentry : thf Lot i> 144 f ee t front on Gay-street,
—equal to any fiani! in Wcft-Chefier. No. 1. A two-sto
ry (tone houle adjoining. »7 feet front, containing e even
will-fii ifhed rooms, toth being ceiled in the garrets, house
and lot fame depth >■ the other,, a kitchen, &c.—»cllars
under both houses, with good stables ou the lots These
House." are almolt new, done by good workmen, in a
matterly manner. No. 3. a Lot 41 feet front. No. 4,
34 feet No- j, 44 feet. No. f>, 119 feet, all of them
ten r«ds deep. On two of the above are ereited three log
and trame houses, two (lories high, cellars under the
whole, and a lmall 'table to each
-1 he above Lots are situated near the Court-Houfe. The
whole will be cxpofed to PUBLIC SALE, 011 the lift and
lid days of February next, at two o'cloek, when the con
ditions will be made known Pofleflion may be had the
firft of April next. The Title is indifputahle. ■
JOHN KINNARD.
January 18
Mrs. Grattan
Rolpeflfully informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the
City, that the third
LADIES' CONCERT
Will be on Tuelday next, at the Aflembly Room.
Mrs. Grattan begs leave to inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen, th t the fubfcnption-book.is at her house
No 39, North Sixth-direct, for the reception of tliofe
names who wifli to honor her with their commands.—
A luhfeription for eight nights 16 dollars, iaobding a
Gfotlernan and Lady's ticket, both taansit^rable— J
Half fubfenptions 8 dollars, including one titket. —
Single ticket dollars.
Mrs. Grattan take* the liberty of requesting the
fubferibers (o lend for their tickets any day after
Thurfilay, the 15th of December, at No. 39, North ,
Sixth-street.
gp Single tickets to be hid the day of the Concert
only, at the Bar of Mr. Qellers's Hotel.
*4-* The Concert to begin at half past fix ; and at
half past eight, the music will attend for the Ball. i
January it , II
Philadelphia.
i
SATURDAY EVENING, JANUARY 28, 1797.
THEATRTCAL.
The attention of the managers of the New Theatre
has, with great judgment, been turned to the celebrated
fpeftacle of Columbus, and the friends of the drama
may, with truth, anticipate the highcft gratification
: from its representation. The abilities of the painter
and machinifl have been driven to the?;/ plus ultra of
: their refpeftivc employments, to furnilh the (uitable
appendages. The masterly pencil of Milbourne has
been long and fufficiently engaged in producing the
mod grand and piilureique scenery ever exhibited on
this, and perhaps any other Theatre.
At a stated meeting of the American Philosophical So
ciety, held on the joth inft. the following gentlemen
were elefled members: vix.
Thomas O. James, M. D. ef Philadelphia,
Adam Seybcrt, M. D.of ditto,
Andrew Edward Van Braam Houchgruft (now of
Bristol, Pennsylvania) formerly prefiderit of thefociety
of Haerlem, in Holland, author of the travels of the
Dutch cmbafly to China, and member oi that embassy.
Mozaral, consul for the French republic, at Bollon,
member of several academies in Europe.
Mr.Samuel H Smith, printer of the paper tilled the
l " New World", in Philadelphia.
M. Volney, author of the Ruins of Empires, with
several other works, and profeflbr of the French aa
! tiona] institute. ExtraiSl from the minute ,
Samuel Maga<w, one of the Seorttaries.
Boston, January 18.
Arrived fcip Britannia, Beat, Kochelle, 70 days.
Spoke nothing. Left a schooner belonging to Ply
mouth.
Among the other papers was a Rochelle Price
Cnrrcnt of No. 5. from which the Price of the fol
lowing Articles is exlra&ed.
Brandy (old) 2801. 27 velts ; New do. Z3O
ad. 240. Red Wine, 240 a 2451. ton ; Old White
Wine, 220 a 2J®l. Coffee 27 a 4®/ lb. Indigo.
Caro. 151.1b. Clayed Sugar, 100 a 1401. C; Co
coa farce, 34/ a 38/. lb. Cotton, 200 a 35a!. Pr
C. New Rice, 23 a 251. C. Tebacco 84 a 951.
Mandates at 3 livres 15 sous,
LONDON, November 14.
The expedition which has been sent to Flushing, fail
ed a few days since from the Texel, under the com
mand of major Doyle and captain O/burne, by whom
it is said to have been planned. It was conduced with
great secrecy, but it has not proved fuccefsful. The
i'quadroß consisted of the Robust and Ramillies men of
war, besides several gun-boats and sire-ships, and had
1 joc land troops on board. The object was to frt fire
to the shipping in the Texel; but on reconnoitring the
harbour, a council of war was summoned, when it
was resolved that the expedition was impracticable.
GIBRAL TAR, Ottober 15.
SEtRETARY's OmCE.
As continuance of a number of merchant's
vcflels in this port, would be attended with the
mod lerious evils, at a time when they cannot be
tupplied from the gart ifon with provifi»«, waver, or
firing, and wfien there is a greater probability ef
their being set on fire by the etumy than tfcaping,
and as the present favorable opportunity of their
being protected through the ttreights by.admiral
Matin's squadron, who will possibly give them fafe
convoy to Lifb#n, is an advantage not likely to hap
pen again in 3 time, and as these vcflVls,
bring either set on lire or droye on shore, (a casual
ty to which they would be very liable where they
now anchor) might be prejudicial to the fafety of
the place : under these circumstances, I think i
neeeffary to give dire&ions to every Btitifh veflcl,
new is tlie place, to hold themselves in readiness tof
00 the signal from Admiral Mann. In confe
querice of disobedience, or negleil of this order,
they will be anfwe able for the conferences.
This will be publicly,lead by the L'eretary, and
recorded in his office.
CHAS. O'HARA.
By this day's Mail.
j NEW-YORK, January 27.
The brig Enterprize, Fitzpatrick, from this port
bound to Martinique, sprung a leak 24 hours after
her departure fiom the Hook, and went down. The
crew, after remaining 24 hours in their boats, were
take* up .by captain Conklin, of the brig Jemima
and Falany, to whose humanity they are indebted
tor every possible attention, during their stay on
board his veflel.
BALTIMORE, January 26.
Lift of American vefiels left at Jacmcl December
26, t796.
Brigs Fanny, Hopkins, Baltimore ; Sally Cufh-.
man, do. Fell's Point, Creightan, do. Schooners./
Telgraph, Gold, do. Perseverance, Purviance,|do.
Berfey Loyd, Allinfon, da. Brig Minerva, Brown,
Newburyport ; schooners Hope, Butler, Charles
ton ; Friendship, Monteith, Philadelphia ; Mars,
Rider, Boston • Mary, Rich, do. Snccefs, Price,
da. Sally, Rumfey, Wilmington, (Del.)
Schooner Peggy, captain Gorfueh, of Balti
more, was also lying at Jacmel, and would fail
next day.
Schooner Adeline, captain Stanley, of Balti
more, had failed 6 days before to windward, to
putchafe coffee.
Dec. 31, fell in-with the schooner Rachel, capt.
Fruitt, and parted from her on the 7th Ja uary,
lat. all well, except the loss of two hands,
one by the other by imprefTment".
Flout- at Jackmel 11 dolls.—Coffee, 29 sols.
On Tuesday arrived at Ahnapalis, fliip Ant&any
Mangin, Cap*. Sanford from Bremen. Left the
Wefer the ill December, and arrived in Hampton
Roads the 17th iytt.—Bale goods—A. Brown
jun. Capt. Sanford has arrived in town with his
Letter Bag, brings, he fays, no intelligence
from the continent worthyof remark.
CHARLESTON, Jan. 6. /
Capt. Smith in the fliip Ga:far, from the Cape
of Good Hope, on his passage here touched at the
island of Ascension, where .the following intelli
gence was communicated to him in writing :
"All the settlements of the Dntch in India, ate
given up to the Euglifh, as well on the East as on
she Wert fide, except Macctffcr and the island «f
Java. That Banda wa« given tip was the lafl news
we heard before we left Batavia, which was on the
13th of June 1796. The inhabitants of Batavia
expected the Eniilifh at the island of Java in the
month of August. L'he teprefentative of the prince
of Orange, who in that eliara&tr has the chief
command of the Dutch settlements ir. India, was
informed by the Englifli when t_hey went thr«-the
ftraiti of Balic to the Molucca islands, that they
would visit Java at that time. This gives great
uneasiness to the iohabitanrs. The old general and
his son, the dire&or, were busy in making prepa
rations to receive them. The faldiers who former
ly wore a blue uniform with white lappels a,ul *
white feather; were a few d iys Uffore. our depar
ture drefled in blue and orange, and wore an o
range coloured feather.
" The sjovernor of Malacca fold 200 Sepoys
and 180 Hanoverians together with two frigates, to
clear himfelf of a debt he owed of 200,000 rix
dollars. In the Molucca Islands every thirg is car
ried on in th« fame way, owing to the conduct of
the Hew governor of Amboyna, Mr. Cornabe, wh®
was formerly at Tinnate.
" The representative of the Prince ef Orange,
who commands a great parcel of rascals and vaga.
hands, principally great ones, intends to call upon
the gentlemen in the service of the company to de
liver up to the EiijJifh too millions of Dutch mo
ney, whieh will berated at 150 millions; tl.ey will
have a particular interest in doing this, as ir will be
the means of clearing them from the bankruptcy
they are in to their malleis y. Vav Kol,
Citizen of Rotterdam in Holland.
Island Ascension, 16th Btpt. 1796"
- ■ . " ' ——T- — -ffT
Sccoiid Ball.
New Cotiliens, Scotch Keels, Contre Dances and a
new Quadrille.
FRANCIS BTR .E beg leave to inform
their scholars, friends and the public in genera!,
that their second Ballfrr rhisfeafon will he on 7'ucfday
the 7th of February, at O'Ellers's Afiembly-Room,—
and in addition to their new Cotilinns and Reels, will
be introduced an entire new QUADRILLE, (comrof
ed by Mr. Byrne. January 28 iawtp7
« For Sale,
At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
United States,
A few copies OF
" An account ot the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States, for the year 1795."
January 28, 1797.
New I heatre.
ON MONDAY EVENING.
Will be prefemed, the Hidorical Play of
Columbus;
Or, A WORLD DI-COVERED.
To which will be added, the rouGoal drama of
The Purse.
On menday—Venicc Preferr'd, and the Flitch of
iiacoß.
Box, One Dollar twenijr-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gailery, half a dollar.
£jT Tickets to be hod at H. &P. Kice's rtook-ftore
No. 5e High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
lervants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order thein, as soon as the company are'featid, to
withdraw, as they cawoot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
rir T R FSPUBI. C/t)
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNEL L
Refpeflfully informs the Public, that
THIS EVENING, Saturday, Jan. 18/ at 7 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
The Progress and Effects of Revenge and Jealousy,
traeed and exemplified in the chara&ers of Zanga
and Othello, with recitations of the most striking
paflages in each.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jus. at the Library ;
at rnr. M'ElWee's looking-glass-store, No. 70, S. Fourth!
(Ireet; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookfeiler, Market-street
Half a dollar each.
SWAN N'S ~~~
Riding School, Horse Academy £5* Infirmary,
Adjoining the fublic Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his fineere thanks to; ofe gentlemen by whom
he lias been employed, during his refidniCv 10 thi., City, and
flatters himfelt that the success ot his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been confuTted, together with his moderate charges, wilj'fe
ure their futurefavjrs and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
thathis spacious and cbmmodious prenjifes, eretted for the
purposes above described are open for the reception ot pupils
of either sex, who wilhto beinftru£ted in the Art ~) Kidmg,
and the light method of governing their horses, so as to rrde
them With eale, elegance, and lafety—their nodes will be
carefully and expediuoufly broke, for every uuroofe, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural power*
whicn are shut upio them, will be unfolded bv art, ca ling
forth uniformity ot motion, and giving to that noble animal
all 1 hole beauties of action which providence has lo bounti
fully neftowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every dilor - er to which the horse it
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by lsngand repeated experience. .
Th« utility of the.above inllitution has neves been qoeflion
ed, that 11 has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman'*
llud willmanifeft, and T. Sw a kn as the fiift eftablifher of
the veterinary ait, solicits a*d relies UDon the fuppoit of ibat
public (which he is ever anxious in Iciving) to enable him to
bring it to petfeftion. The iiiea of a fublcription for fhat
purpose has been hinted by several gentleman, who with 10
promote the institution—the amount of each fubfcripi ion to
be returned by services in any of the departments he protefles,
agreeable to the rate of charges Ita'-d in his nand bn sacti
fubfeription is now open, and the figr.atures of man-, >e:p.st
able gentlemen already obtained. He therdore injorms hit
fnerids and furh Ladies and gentlemen to whom he hat not
the honor of being known, that he thai! in a few take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folickmg their lupport
and pvot<=&ior>.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
Gentlemenwho with to be inftrufled.
Nov. 4,- „h&f,A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id.proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhils
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler*, in pints and half-pinis
Window Glass, in boxes, of different iizes
Hazlenuts, in facts
Whiting
S& I »"«•
Sc. Spanish Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 $
Particular Teneriffe Wine.
50 Quarter-eafks Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a superior quality,
For Sale by
A. Marple iff Israel W. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-ftrect.
January 11 tts6
Schuylkill Bridge.
The following Memorial and Plan m circula
ting ; and ispublilhed for information, thit those who
with to encourage an undertaking fc neceflary and lau
dable may be acquainted with the fubjeA before the
Memorial is presented for ignature.
To the Honourable the Senate and House of Repre
fentatires of the Commonwealth of Pcnnfylvania
is General Afiitmbly met.
The MEMORIAL of the Subferibers,
Refpeflfully Sheweth,
That they are desirous, from motives both of pub
lio and private interest, to promote the establishment of
a Company for erefling a. permanent Bridge over the
river Schuylkill, at or near the City of Philadelphia.
Th«y therefore pray the Legislature, that they will
be pimfed to permit them to bring in a Bill, for incor
porating fufih persons as Will associate for that purpose,
into a Body corporate, on the plan hereunto annexed.
And your Memorialists will ever pray, fcc.
Philadelphia, January 25th, 1797.
PLAN for the establishment of a Company, to be in
corporated by the Legislature of Pcnnfylvania (if
such incorporation (hall to that Legislature seem
proper) by the name and title of " The Company
for erefling a Bridge over the river Schuylkill, at
or near the City of Philadelphia."
1. Five commissioners to be appointed by the Legis
lature to open a Subscription for 15,000 Ibares of 10
dollars each. Ten per cent of the sum fubferibed to be
paid at the time of fubfcrlbing, and ten per cent in
three months. The remainder to be paid at such times,
and in fueh proportions as the Direflors of the Compa
ny shall think proper. Any person failing to make
future payments, to forfeit, for the use of the Corpo
ration, all payments previously made ; and it shall be
lawful for any body politic, co-partnership, or person,
to fubferibe for as many (hares as they, he or (he Ihall
think fit, not exceeding in any one day, Bat
thousand ibares Ihall be reserved for the ptirpofes here
in after mentioned ; and to enable the Corporation
therewith to purchase, if the fame can be accomplifh
«d by this means, a fcite or place deemed eligible for
the erection of of a bridge :
a. The Fund to be applied by the company, nndtr
the fuperiatendance of such person or persons as they
shall think proper, to the ereflion and mainteeance of
a permanent Bridge within years over the river
Schuylkill, at or near the City of Philadelphia, at a
place convenient for the communication of the city
with the western parts of the country. A general des
cription of the Bridge to be mentioned in the A&.
But the company, or those invested by them with the
direflion of their affairs, may deviate from such <ief
cription, in any details thought by thewC more conven
ient 01 proper ; preserving the substantial parts of the
plan described.
3. The Company to be allowed a toll not exceeding
the rates taken at the present Corporation Bridge, for
any pafTengers, carriages or commodities. But no
more than three fourths of fueh rates Ihall be taken for
the paflage of the produce of the country, merchan
dise and manure. But when the said tolls Ihall ex
ceed per cent, nett annual profit, the one half of
the excess Ihall eompefe a fund for the redemption of
the Bridge, fs as to render it free, save that there Ihall
always be a small toll or other revenue for keeping it
in repair. This moiety of the excess Ihall be laid out
in Bridge Stock, or other productive Funds ; and the
dividends thereof fha!l be also added to this fund, and
invested in like manner. The other half fball become
part of the dividend for the benefit of the Company.
4. The Company to be allowed to hold the said
Bridge for twenty-five years : But if, by the operation
of the fund heretofore and hereafter proposed, there
ihall be a Efficient sum to free the Bridge at a period
less than the said twenty-five years, then it shall be re
deemed and become free, on the Stockholders being
paid the appraised value thereof as herein after men
tioned. If the said fund Ihall not be adequate to the
purpose last mentioned, the Legislature may, at the
expiration of the said twenty-five years declare it a free
Bridge (providiug at the fame time the means of keep,
ing it in repair) and the Company (hall be obliged to
take such sum of money therefor as Ihall be allowed en
a fair appraisement, by indifferent persons. The like
appraisement Ihall take place, wMen the finking fund is
is adequate to the redemption of the bridge, and the
establishment of a revenue, if a toll be not thought
more eligible for keeping the bridge in repair.
5. The Commissioners before mentioned shall call
a meeting of the stockholders, immediately on the sub
scription being filled ; (except the reserved shares)
and that meeting shall appoint five of their number, to
examine and report the mod eligible places for build
ing the b' idge and to treat with any bodies politic
or corporate, or individuals for the purchase of their
refpeflive rights, or any of them, to the place or pla
ces deemed eligible. And when the said place or pla
ces, and the terms on which it or they can be purchas
ed, are so reported, the said stockholders, or a majority
of them, shall fix on the terras and place. Or the
said stockholders or a majority of them, may then
agree to leave the determination, both ou place and
terms, to the Dire&tfrs, to be chosen as herein after
mentioned.
6. The ftockholdersfto be allowed to choose twelve
Directors annually, and make By Laws for the govern
ment of tbe affairs of the company.
7. Semi annual dividends to be made.
8. If the Legislature shall be pleased, at the time
of passing this adt, or within twelve months thereafter,
to grant a sum of money towards erefling the bridge,
such sum shall be laid out in Ihares ; and the sum so
granted, together with the dividends thereon anting
from time to time, whirh Ihall also be invested in bridge
ftoek, or other productive tunds; (ball be added to the
finking fund herein before proposed for freeing the
bridge.
9. Donations'from individuals, given within J2
months after passing the ail of incorporation, for
freeisg the Bridge, (hall be received, invested as
keretofore mentioned, and added to the finking fund.
January 27 3t
Elegant Bruflels & Turkey Carpeting,
For Talc by George Dobfon, N«. 35, South Third-street.
December 15. dtf
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Marret-strkit, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by tke late arrivals from
London, i large aflbrtment of WARRANTED
IVA /CH ES, confiding of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecottds, ' of superior
workmanship and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
(econds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Watches;
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty hoar, brass
works, &c.
Decembet 13, X 796. dun
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
N&va-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Maekarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or (ingle one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December i §tf
A Manufa&ory FOR SALE.
A valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, firuate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original conftru&ioa, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Pcrfons
who wish to purchase, are requested to apply at No. 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tf
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized by an ail entitled
" An a<£t to enable the Prelident and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah navigation, to raise, by
way of Lottery, the sum of Four Hundred Thousand
Dollars, for the purpose of completing the works, in
tlreir ails of incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars, »o,oo®
j of ten thousand dollars, lo,oeo
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofTeflbrs of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the last
day's drawing, at which time there (ball
not be less than 500 numbers undrawn, 10,000
10 of two thousand dollars each, 20,000
as of one thousand dollars each, 30,e00
43 of five hundred dollars each, 11,500
100 of two hundred dollars each, 10,00s
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
310 of fifty dollars each, 11 ,000
19,500 of five dollars each, 147,500
30,0*0 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Sii dollars for each ticket will only be-demanded at
the time offsle.
All prizes (hall be paid ten days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of the pofTefTor of a fortunate
ticket, iubjedt to a dedu&ion of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within 1% months
after the Drawing is finifhed, ef which public notice
will be given, lhall be conlidercd as relinquished for
tke use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the Prelident and Managers of the
Schuylkill ind Sufquehanna Canal Navigation—and
the Prelident and Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan
difh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and direst the mode of dii'pofjng of the
tickets which committee (hall deposit the money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit ef an account to be o
pened for the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January r6, '97,
Resolved, That the committee for conducing the
Lottery be directed t* commence the on the
firft day of March next.
Extra& from the minutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball, "j
John Sttinmelz.,
Standi/k Forde,
Francis Wefl, ]> Managers.
James M'Crea, I
Johu Miller, jun. |
William Montgomery, J
Jan. ie. th& f.tf
In order to eomply with contrails, I will Jill, for
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Frederickfburg, beginning op
polite to the lower cprner of Doctor Wellfard's, on
Caroline-ftrert, and running up to the cross street
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back to
Sophia-street. This square I have laid off into 14 lots,
17 and an half feet frost, and in back, 11 on Caro
line-street, and 11 on Sophia-street. Nine of those
on Caroline-street I have leafed on an annual ground
rent of S and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant tots a purchaser could enhance the value
of by building small houses, which will as readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will Martins in the
spring, and yiel-o a greater profit in proportion to
their cost than large buildings. Those who incFine
to purchase may knew the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZHUGH.
B«l!-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d4w
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Ettate,
CALLED TIVITTENHAM, situate in the
towrrfhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 t-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Weftcrn road -.containing 130 aer«s of excellent lanjl,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
011 the premises a good two story brick houle, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ftablcs*
and other convenient buildings; a fmokc-houfe and stone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The fituatien is pleasant and healthy, and from fchehigh
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harnaan
deceased, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
OA* 31. , taw Surviving Executor.
CAMILLA, I
Or A Pi fture of Youth.
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable
on delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
Ball.
CONDITIONS.
I. Handsome, neat type, perfe<Rly new, i» em
ployed.
11. A volume, Hitched in blue paper, it intended
to be publilhcd every i weeks, till the five are com
pleted j thr firft and second are come to hand, and the
third is hourly expe&ed. Subscriptions are received,
and Books may be had of J. OKMROD, No. 41,
Chefnut-ftreet-
Mr*. D'Arblay (late Mis» Burney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the l&urcls the has already acquired in the
literary world. The strength of imagination and ele
gance of fiyle, displayed in Evelina Ind Cecilia, will
fufficiently lecommend to every reader of taste and
judgment, the peruftl of Camilla.
It nay not be improper to add, that the Queen of
England, after having perused this interfiling publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thousand
pounds sterling, as a teftimeny of her approbation of
tke work.
Januory 15 . eotf
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery..
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Stuth Second-Jlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thoufind Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
the Legifiature of Pennfylvaain, pafled during the lad,
fcllion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, ia the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prise of ao.ooe Oollan - aO,OOO
1 do. of 10,000 do. • - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. .... 15,000
4 do. of a,OOO do. • 8,000
*0 do. of 1,000 do. - bo,ooo
39 do. of 500 do. - . 19.500
80 do. of soo do. • . - . 16,000
*00 do. of 100 do. - . 90,000
300 do. of 50 do. - — 15,000
1 do. of 500 do. to be paid the posies. )
for» f the firft drawn no. J ®
5 do< of 5,000 do. to be paid possessors f
of the five lad drawn nos J '* ,e
9,40* <0.0 15 do. : - 141,000
10,054 Prises 300,000
19,946 Blanks '
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars jpo,ooo
AH Priaes Stall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of a pofleflor ef a fortunate
Ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as foonas the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps Cooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman,
Joseph Hiefter, James Diemtr, Thomas Dundas,
James May, John Otto, John Ktim, Daniel Cran r ,,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the sth, 179 C.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. », to be had at the
above office, where the earliest information of the draw
ing of the Washington No. «, and Pattcrfon Lottery's,
are received, and check beaks for examination and regif
tering are kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery to be had at Mr, Sheri
dan's Rate-firm, John Hay, North Third-ftrect and
Henry Swjyer's, German Town.
January 1 i lawtf
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the ease and convenience of merchants
in general.; but particularly for those who are ex
teniively concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the course of the whole year,
for each month feparatively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
tke mode now in use, of fele&tng the bills due in
each month from the promiscuous entries of several
raanshs. To which it prefixed,
aUe (hewing the number of days from any day
any ntonth, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and (bid by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January Z tawtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second stkemt.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
JpCheck Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, No. 1, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prfees in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public for
examination.
The fuWbriber folicite the application of the public
and his friends, who wiffc to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
%* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollers each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 16, 1797. mth
This Day is Jt'ublilhed,
By BIOREN & MAD AN, at their Printing Office,
No. 77, Dook-ftreet, and fold by the principal
Booksellers in this City.
The American Annual Register ;
Or hiftorieal Memoirs sf the United States, for the
Year 1796.
No. 167.
DiJlriS of Pennfyhania, to wit :
Be it remembered, that on the 19th day of January
in the Twenty-firft year of the Independence of the
United States ef America, Biron & Madan of the said
diflriift have deposited in this Office the title of a Book
the Right whereof they claim as Proprietors in the
words following to wit:
" The American Annual Register, or Historical
" Memoirs of the United States, for the year 1796.
In conformity to the aifl of the Congress of the
United States entituled " An a& for the encourage
ment of learning byi securing the copies of Maps,
Charts and Books, to the authors and proprietors of
such copies during the time therein mentioned."
Samutl Caldwell,
Clerk Pennsylvania Biftri<£l.
January 15. jaw*
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofaU will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the/Treasury
unsil the expiration of the firfl day of March next en
fwing, for the supply of all ration* which may he required
for the nfe of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the place# and within the diftrieU here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Pjcfquc lfle; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandufey
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Fort St. Clair; at F«rt-Jefferfon; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place b slow Fort
Defiance on the Miami River td Lake Eric; at Fort
St«uben ; at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United State# on the river
Miffifippi; at Fort Kn«x ; at Ouialanon.
If supplies (hall be required for any polls or places not
mentioned ia this notice, all such supplies (hall be fur
niflied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, ®r as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contra&or.
The rations to be fupplicd arc to conflft of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread »r flour. '
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ouncee of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiikey.
One quart and half a pint of iialt."")
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( . , ,
Two pounds of Soap, (P er hundred
One pound of Candles, J
Therationsare to be furnifkad in fach quantities, as that
there fliall at all times during the said term, be fuflicicnt
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, fer the term of fix month* in
advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good anrf-vrholefome
provisions, if the fame shall be required. 11 is to be un»
derftood, that the Contractor is to beat the exf-enic and
rife of iffuirg the supplies to the troops at each post, and
that all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, (hall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
raflcrs, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as
certaining the eircumftances of the loss, and the amount
of ths ai tides for which compenfarion shall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Seoretaryol the Treasury.
City of Washington.
SCHEME of the L/OTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY. (1
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & )
dwelling-house, j calh 30,000, are } 5 0 >oo®
I ditto 15,000 & calk 25,000 40,00#
I ditto 15,000 Sc calh 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 io,oo»
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ea(h 5,000 10,000
t calh prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
»o do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. xoo ■ • 10,000
%oo do. 50 - - 10,00 a
400 do. a-5 • - 10,000
1,000 do. ae - 2e,000
15,00s do. to - t5»,s > oo
*6)739 Prizei.
33.261 Blanks.
50,000 Ticketi, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those \yhs may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery wiH afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Wafhingtoa
Two beautiful designs are already (defied for the entire
fronts on two of the public lquares; from these prawings
it ispropofed toereel two centre and four earner buildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdcfcribei in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be orecled within the city of Wafliington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The i*oney prizes will bepayablein thirty,dajs
after it is finiflied ; and any prizej for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after ths
drawing isclofed, are to be confideredas gifen towardi
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as feenrity.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requeued to undertake this arduous talk
1 second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficient num
<;r of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
•ends to a National University and the other federal ob
jeiU may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parti of the
Continent as well as from Europe, the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily coramenie, and that the care aDd
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the It'.or- ftifpenfion indilpentable.
SAMUEL KLODGET.
»§. Tirkets may be had at the Bank of Colombia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boilon ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. e0
————— -
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Faurib-Jlreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs learve to solicit a continuance of their layers.
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the
Mod Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable for the season.
At this Ihop Gentlemen cas be furniihed with the bed
materials, and have then made up in the nested and nioft
Falhionable manner, and on the fcorteft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
punAual attention to them.
November 10. ws
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN N~0»
—No. 119 —
CHESNUT-STRHET.
[Price Eight Dollars per Annum.]