of the ® Jlttets & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1356.] THURSDAT EVENING, JANUART 12, 1797. [VOLUME XI.
A CARD.
If Monjieur G H. Sqhlr,
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June last, and arrived
at Bolton ibout the middle of Aaguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
JolVph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet/ who
will give him some information of importance.
December 24, $
FOR sale,
f a ft~f ai^n S f<hoont r ORI^N;
Seventy tons burthen ; fifteen months
, 1 H ; her i'rame is of the b«ft of white
toak : Ihe i» a r'aithful built vefifel, handsomely finifhed off
and well found in every particular; is ready to receive a
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any cx
pence on her hull, fails or rigging : she {lows fix hundred
barrels; has a haxidfome cabin and fleerage, and a half
deck which will Row from feventy-five to eigh.y barrels ;
has been newly caulked, graved and painted. For terms
apply to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, corner of Market at»d Fifth-ftreets,
Or to the Captain ©n board said schooner at MefTrs.
Willis and Yardiley'# wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
wharf; where there is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the belt of American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
Boston manufa&sred Chocolate.
December 26 J>
jfj&V For Sligo and Killibegs,
-American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, matter.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to
William Bell;
Who his for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well afTorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens •
»5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine j Indigo . Rufiia Matts,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
FOR SALE,
THE SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is notfold in a few days, she will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
d
For Sale, or Charter,
jg&n The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,
Burthen 20J 47-95 t»n« regiller, built in
S3 Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live oak
and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago, she
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be lent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nick/in & C». •
IPloo haw for sale on board said vejel,
37 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing Hates.
1 box ink (lands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial
iiylon, and, > TEAS.
Souchong 3
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firft quality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
* ehefts Bandanno hartdketchiefs.
A few chsft~ Manchester goodswell afTorted in Cor
duroys, thickirts, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
xSo crates Queens ware well afTorted.
10 tons flieet lead.
Nails afibrted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, £ and hogsheads.
New-York Market, j
40 pipes and 10 hogfttcads Teneriffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
I} o logs Mahogany.
Nov 7. tth&ftf
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Eltate,
CALLED T IVITTENHA M, Gtuace in the
township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
*] t-2 miles from Phiiad lphia, and half a mile from the
Dew Wefternroad '.containing 230 awes of excellent lan J,
4? of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. 1 nere are
on the preniifes a good two story brick hou'fe, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, (tables'
and other convenient buildings; a fir.oke-houfe and itone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are allin clover, except those immediately
tmderjtii'.age, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing. .
Th* (ituation is pleasant and healthy, and nom the high
ealtivacion of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
Yi ir.Sty.to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman#
country fest.
The fesegoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman
deceased, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
OA* 31. law Surviving Executor
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FROUNCES andJOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-pannerfhip, under the firm oi
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of BroVer-.
Conveyancers and Commifiion merchants. They buy and
fell on commifiion every species of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Monet procured oh deposits, &c. &c. -all kinds c
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
dilpatch; accounts adjufled, and books fettled, in the
nioft correal manner. Constant attendance will be given
They lolicit a (hare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour'to deserve it.
> . B. The utrnoft secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
a JOhN VAN REED
I'h.lad. Augaft 17, 1796. m&wtf
05- NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United Stat<i9, in the
Norrh-Wrftern Territory, heretofore a ,! vertifed
in the several public pipej's, willc ramer.ee this even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
to dayj 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
Jailuary 4 §
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spauifti Swa-nfdowii
Clouded Erminats and Moieikins
Striped do. aad do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Cafflnets and
Superfine printed Quiltktgs, r.eweft pattejns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general aifortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching (eafon*
Novembtr 5. dtf
SALT PETRE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt P«tre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
Novemhe'- 5. '
Elegant Bruifels &l Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. 2j,South Third-street.
December 15. dtf
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Briek-Layeti,
who quitted Ireland in 1783, or 1784, and came into
this Country, ('tis supposed to Philadelphia) about
four years tince, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of thehigheft importance, U will be thankful
ly received, by GLO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
December 31. w&f im
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfilh, from one to fifty keiitaU
Fine and coarle Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaller of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December t.
Imported from London iS 1 Liverpool,
EARTHEN WAKE, in crates and liuglWds, well.
afTorted
Wine Bottles in hamperi
Window GUl's of all fires
Two cases of stationary
One eheft of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small confignmtrnt of Rose Blankets. Flannels,
Bai«es, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &e.
Paints of various colors.
Basket fait in hogiheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hog (heads and
quarter caiks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different fize3
A few trunks of ladies French shoes afTorted
Silk nankeen,&c.
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, confiftinsj of
Ofnaberys, ticklenbergs,bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravins duck, Britanuiaa, &c»
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas £5° John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nov- 1; ■ eetf
— FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Lan'd,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marfft
aad Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Penftfylvania, in
tour separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, Seuth Second-ltreet
Ofidber 31* mwftf
Notice.
THE Advtrtiftr is a person regularly bred, and has
carried on in an extensive manner for these 30 years
paft,the various branches of Goldfiniths' and J«w
ellery, plated and hard-ware Cutlery, and Iron •>,
rv business, and has general knowledge of the Dry
Good and many other bufinefles. He has a particular
taste for building, has built extensively so; hiinfelf,
has conduced buildings for others, and is of opinion
that his lrrvices to any gentleman that might be in
went of a person to condudl any of the afo'refaid bufi
nefles, would not onb be ufeful but an acquisition, as
he will engage 011 liberal terms, either as a Talesman
or to fell on commission as aa agent, a#l as a partner or
take the care of a manufactory, or superintend build
ing, &c., He is a married man, and having no'family
but his wife who would a& as a saleswoman or houle
keeper. No obje&ion to any part of the Southern
dates, or so take a voyage to Europe as a supercargo.
A line directed to j.C. to the care of the printer,
will be punctually attended to.
N. B. He is well acquainted with most of tie Eng
li(h, Irish, and Seotch manufactories, as be carried on
business for tea years in Londen, but on account of
unavoidable misfortunes in his country, he it now for
ced to leek for a living for himfelf and wife in this
way, and he flatters himfelf that he will give entire
fjtisfadhon to his employer. And as he i» well known
in this city, and to the most refpeflaWe characters on
the continent, doubts nor bat his ehara&er, morality
and indefatigable indultry, will bear the ftriileft en
quiry
Dec. 28. iawtf
Wanted oh hire,
A Cook, male or female —also a man servant to at
tend in a private family and perform the duties be
longing to the dining room. None need apply who
do not understand and have not been aceoftomed to the
refptClive fervicesand who are not well recommended
for honefly and good behavior.
Apply at No. 182, Mulberrv-ftreet, or to the printer.
January 5. tjunw
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 15, South Third-ltreet,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via IjOn
don, an afTortment of
Scarl«t
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed with fur and
Purple aDd ( ermine.
Pearl J
December T j. §
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selecltd Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
, low eft terms ;
Amongji -tubicb are
Some elegant 4*4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottony new
pattern*
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dim-ity N
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery •
Umbrellas of the firft quality, assorted
lriih Linens, very fint, and Tahie Linen*
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets aflorted—See. Sic.
O&ober 26. d
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flowet-'Seeds,
Roots, &C. &c.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOJI SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-streets,
ji mojl capital and sxtenfive jJJfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which are,
Wte kinds Afparagusj Three kinds CresseS
Four Berecolc Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radish
Smc Beets Fifteen Turnip
Hkven Brocoli Fifteen Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carrot Four Parsnip
Three Caulifloww Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery; Twenty-one Lettuce
Tan Cucumber;
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marvaold Pot Marjorum
Balm Vhyme Mangel Wurtze!
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red Mid white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With * curious collection of the most cfteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a eapital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. dtf.
Just Landing,
At Soutb-Jlreet wharf, from at board the /hip Stdg-
Ity, Captain Hodge, from St. Peter/burg,
The following Goods :
Raffia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do Crash.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the lb/of the
English size. .. '
Do. "White Candle Tallow.
Do* White Soap in fenall boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lfinglafs, ift and end fort. '
Ilorfa Hair uncurled.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peterfhurg Clean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramondy & Co.
Oflaber It. $ .
Cheap Frertch China.
THE fsbferibsrs finding it impossible to fnpply their
(lore with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufafteries, give no
tice that they wilt fell at prime coll the remaining
stack on hand, consisting of
Deflert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucer*
Groupe-s and Figures
Alabatter Vases
Looking Glasses, in gilt frames,
Befidrs India Japan'd Toilet Defts, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER k Co.
No. 91, South Second-street.
December sth. tts
For Sale,
By J: WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from x 2 inch cables down
to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sent. 27 dtf
. T . ■ ■ 1 ■ . 1 -
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profefTional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Lawj generally, through the
Union, that his l«<e importation of is now arrang.
Ed, and ready for Sale, from a nngle volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
priccs, which for ieveral yeais pa A have iu so diilinguifhed a
manner recommended them, to- notice.
Printed Catalogues combining ihe most cxteniiv© collec.
• tion cf the lareft Eoglifh and Inih Edition* ever imported
into this country, are publilhed, and will be delivered giatis
on application.
Otders addrcfied to G. D. in writing fiom any distance
(hall be pun&ualJy attended to.
A number of IRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A eonvenicnt LOfT, nor Market, Street Wharf.
In order to tomply ivitls eontratte) I will fell, for
approved londs, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the uppeir end of FredeHckfburg, beginning op
posite to the lower corner of Dosor Wellford's, oa
Carolirte-Jlreet, and running up to the erofs street
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back t©
Sophia-street. This square I have laid, off into 24
27 and an half feet front, and itz back, iz on Caro-i
lbfe-ftrect, and 12 011 Sophia-ftrefet. Kine of those
oti Caroline-street I have leafed on an annual ground
reht of 8 and 10 pounds, te the amount of pound*,
and the vacant lots a puixhafer could attkamte the value
of by building fmill hotifes) which will as readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will Martins in the
fpnngj and yield a greater profit in proportion to
th«ir cost thaa large buildings. Those tvho incline
to purchase may kn«w the terms by applying to
HENRY PITZHUGft.
Bell-Air, Dec. 8, 179& 7thJ.d4w
Notice to Creditors;
The Afflgntfet of Bernard Dougherty late of Bed
ford County, will mats a dividend of the effe<9j in
thair hands, immediately after the firll day of Februa
ry " ext to such Creditors as may furmfli their account*
btfere that time.
Thomas Smith
Thomas Fitzfimons f ,
Isaac Hazlchufft f Abates.
Miers Fisher )
Philadelphia, Jan. 9, 1796. divr
WAN TED,
A ZIMCHjdNIC, to erect Spinning and Weaving
Machines fcy ftreh it art ttfcd at ray rrreoufica
tory—Apply to JAMES DAVENPORT,
No. 401, North Front-llreet.
N. B. Noise need apply but a complete mechanic,
ahd a ma* of liability.
Globe Mill, Deeember 29, 1795. £
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial S fHylon Skio.
Hyson, > Freih Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, i (_ Bohea
Diy - 9- jtaWjm.
Philadelphia, Jan. \th, 1 797.
All persons indebted to the Estate of
Joseph Paschalx, deceased,
ARE requeftcd to pay their rclpcctivc debts v-'itlioyt
further delay, otherwile their accounts will be put into
the hands of an Attorney to recoVcr—Ahd all those who
have any demands against said liftate are desired to bring
ia their accounts for futtlement, to
SAMUEL CO ATES, -s
CHRISTR. MARSHALL,jun. > Ex'fSe
CHARLE.S MARSHALL. ) cas
Furnished Apartments; or
Board Ejf Lodging,
WANTED by two young gentlemen. Answers,-
wi'h particulars, to be addrefled to S. F. at the offire
of this paper.
January 4.
Public Notice,
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to supply tte
deiefl in my Title to a lot of ground, situate on the Weft
fide of Fourth-street, containing in breadth ao feet, and
in length JO feet, bounded Northward and Wcftward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippen, and Eaitward by Fourth-street, occa(i»ned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewis
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux.
—All perfo«s concerned, are required to appear belore
two of the justices of the said court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief Jnftice of the state, on
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office 0/
Edward Burd, cfq. Prothonotary of the said court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dt,3oth
———— —-v
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine*
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLI NG§ & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Bank of Pennfylvanie,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Direilors th's.day, * dividend of
fixteeo dollars on each (hare was declared for the laflt
6 months, which will be paid to thj: Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
Jan.. 3. dtf.
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST& id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof,- in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting
Copperas ( . ...
White Lead > ,nhhd *
It Spanish Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 f
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thoufatttf
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, $ feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats JSO weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles 6f porter,'
drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five tujles an hotlr, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
Hi is to bi leen 'till the 15th of January, in'
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every oae may fee him—,
after which time the former price of half a dollar wil j
be resumed.
| He will leave Philadelphia as foan u the weather
1 will permit.
I Dccctfiler j* 4New Theatre.
On FRIDAY EVENING, January 13.
Will be preferred, j" 1
A COMEDY, called ' t0 '
The.School for Scandal.
Sir Peter Teazle, Mr. Bates w,
Sir Oliver Surface, Mr. Morris of
Jofsph Surface, Mr. IVijnell 01
Charles Surface, Mr. Moreton n<
fir Benjamin Backbite, Mr. Fox [V in
(JralStree, Mr. Harwoo.i th
Sareleft, Mr. Blijett b<
Sir Harry, with a song, Mr. Darley lii
Rowley, Mr. Warrcll et
Mofcs,' Mr. Francis
Snake, Mr. Darley, jun. It
Trip, Mr. Worrell, jun. V
Lady Teazle, Mrs. Morris b;
Lady Sneerwell, Mrs. Harvey 1
Mrs. Candour, firft time, Mrs. Old'mixeit , o
Maria, Mrs. Francis Eg
—g
To which will be added, o
A Comic-Opera, in 1 acts, called
Peeping Tom of Coventry, f
Peeping Tom, with the song of the Little p
Farthing Rulh-light, Mr. Bates
Mayor of Coventry, Mr. Warren
Harold, V Mr. Darley, jun.
Crazy, Mr. Francis
Earl »f Mercia, Mr. Fax
Count Lewis, Mr. J. Worrell I
Maud, Mrs. OUmixon h
Emma, Mrs. Worrell e
.Lady Godiva, Miss Oldfteld c
May.refs, Mrs. L'EJlrangc {
gT Bos, One Dollar cents. Pft one Dollar, '
Aad Gallery, half a dollar.
Ticketsto be H. &P- Flice » t
•No. 50 High-ftr«et, and at the Offiee adjoining the c
Theatre. r
Places for the Boxes to ue taken at the Office in the £
front of the theatre, from to till 2 o'clock, and from .
10 till 4 on the days of performance. J
Ladies and Gentlemen are /equefted to fend their
forvants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they caunot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
VIFAT RESPUBLICA! }
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. F E~N NELL
Refpeftfully informs the Publis, that
THIS EVENING, Thursday, Jan. 12, at 7 o'clock.!
Will be delivered,
(first part)
THE EFFECT'S OF REVEN3E,
Simplified by fde&ions from the
Charaaeri.fZ.anga, Dr. Young
(second part)
THE PROGRESS OF JEALOUSY TRACED
In the character of Othello, Shakespeare
During which will be recited
Othello's speech to the S«iate
The celebrated feens with lago
And the molt striking paflages during his paroryfm of
iealoufy
( THISD PART.) ,
THE EFFECTS OF JEAtOUSY,
Exemplified in f
Othello's soliloquies before and after the murder of
Defdemona ,
Alonzo'e soliloquies before and after the death ot
Leonora
With critical observations on the authors.
Subscriptions are received by Mr.Zachariah Poulfon,
jun. at the Library, where the Ladies and Gentlemen
who may be inclined to honor the undertaking with
their patronage, are relpeftfully requeued to fend
thei» names and receive their tickets.
Occasional admifiion tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon,
Tun. at the Library ; atmr. M'Eiwee's looking-gtefs-ftore,
No. 70, South Fourth street; and at M-r. Carey's.Book
eller, Market-street—Hals a dollar each.
Mrs. G RATTAN
ftefpeAfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the ioth day of January,
she proposes opening, at No. 39,, North Sixth
ftreet, a
t Linen and Muslin Wardioufe.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/10 per yard
Fine GofTaes
Tatnbour'd Book Muslins, frcrm to 11 f per yard
India Muslin. from 11/3 to li/P cr y 2rd
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet tuufiin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf. :
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3. to tc/6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'i and border'd Handkerchiels
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tamb#ur'd Cravats from XO/IS to li/ll
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloaths
Huckabnck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hole, from 6/3 to 13/ per pair
Dimity from 5/10 to 6/: i
Ivisii's Silk Hole
Tambour'd nmflin Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to 1.7/J
iTilh linens for Gentkrr en's Shirts, from i/it to $f •
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received ■ for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shim, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. tCe.
Houfhold Linen, &.c. &c.
January <}. %
Wafliington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged soT prizes, at the Office, No-. 147, Chefnut-
Creet, where a corr*<ft Numerical Book is kept lor public
jnfpe6tion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale ©r ex
changed for prizes diawß in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received.
The Business of a Broker carried on as u(ual.
V A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
cn reasonable terms.
ifapuary ia. ttstf
Bank of the United
January 2nd, 1797.
The Dire&ors have this day declared a Dividend of
Sixteen Dollars on «ach Share for the last fix months,
which will te paid to the Stockholders after the lath
iaftjnt. G. SIMPSON, Caihier.
SPRINGFIELD. (MalT.) January 3. ,y
GRATITUDE to FRANCE.
The deceitful plea, that we owe fne debt of grati- 111
tude to Frsrtiee to such an amount that we cannot pay £)
it, and are bound to lay our independence at her feet, p
to be trod into the mire of contempt, has been sung, n ,
and fiid and toasted by all the fools drunk and sober, p c
who would work without wages, and by all the knaves
who would not, until the country,people at last are sick
as thej irnpofition. Do we owe, as our traitors allege, s
cur very country to France ?So far from it, Vergen r<
nes did all lie could to prevent Mr. Oswald from agree- I
ing t« have our country ceded to us at the Peace.—On 0
\ the contrary, he desired to pare the states clol's to the n
\ bone, and to confine our limits to the Chio, —Frank
lin wasJiis dupe ; John Adams ami John Jay, his fuc
eefsful oppofers.
Another lying claim to gratitude is, that we owe »ur '■
Independence to France. The fa ft is, the C«mpt de v
Vergennes tried all the arts of a wily Courtier, to em- a
barrafs the acknowledgement of our Independence; n
The plain reason was this, France preferred clipping „
ourwings t« letting them gro-/. It'has been laidin e
Europe that we could not govern oyrfelves, and like a
good ally, ihe was resolved to do us that favour. —Ac-
cordingly Genet has attemped it, and now Adet is do- '
ing the like ,~andwehavea degenerate number, some I
hired, and othert made fools of, who uphold this «
Frenchman, in his outragtous proceedings. But the c
affair is not like to prolper, for Americans begin to rcf- f
pest themselves *s«a nation, asd to spurn the idea of
being a French Colony. ,
BOSTON, January 4.
ISLE & F F R A'N C E.
The following intelligence frem the Isle of 1
France, was received by Capt. Fel , who "arrived 1
here, on Sunday last, in the Ketch Four brothers '
of Salem. It will icadily be ntcolledted, that the '
commiflioners of the exesutive directory, which were j
sent to j;ive operation in the Indian islands the to
laws of the French republic; and particulatly that
for emancipating the nejroes, were not permitted
to fuilain their funftiot s, but were ordered bv the
colonial afTembly to quit the islands, and have since
returned to France. These measures have been
considered by some at tafti ; but they are highly
jullified by the Americans then in the Isle of France
—as will appaat by the following;
ADDRESS
Presented to the goverament-of th? Isle of France,
by the Americans,, then in Port North Weft.
The Americans come to felicitate yau, upon the
happy event, which restores tranquillity to the
minds of all, and the reins of government into the
hands of those, under whom this island flonrifhes,
an enviable centraft, to the desolations and horrors,
that pervade the European colonies in the Ameri
can islands. It is for the cause of humanity that
we rejoice at the fruftration of a system, which in
volved tis all in one general ruin. We feel for you
t as brothers, united to you, not only by the ties of
interest, but by affedtion, cultivated by the friend
ly intercourse that has happily exifted'between us ;
it was with grief that we augured the interruption
of this mutual harmony, from the unprovoked in
sult given to the American nation, by one of the
commiflaries, which could have arisen, but from a
corrupt heart meditating on the worst intentions.
e —The event produced by your firmnefs and spirit,
idifpels ©ur fears, and we now look forward with
confidence to that uninterrupted friendlhip which
f we so earntftly desire. Americans to whom every
thing is interesting which interests the French, be
/ hold with admiration, these islands, and the analogy
of their interior situation to their local position ;
j two mountains that boldly rife in the midst of an
imcienfe mountain, on which the inhabitant tinin
,f terrupted, cultivates his land, whilst the thunder
rolls unheeded over his head and the waves fpead
their rage at his feet; and whilst he pursues a sy
stem of cultivation, thought neceflary in tropical
'> climates, it is no less pleasing to remark, that it is
a praise due to him, thai the hand of lenity light
j ens the toils of servitude.
Signed by all the Americans ia port.
1, Port North Weft, June 24th, 1796, the 6th
e, Meffidor, 4th year of the French republic.
■" This address being translated and read ir. the eo
lonial afTemblv, the fame day of its date, it was
ordered to be annexed to the journals, honorable
mention made of it, and that it be anfwerei by
n the President. *
r, The following is the Answer.
»- The president, &c. to the American confu!, cap
tains, See. Health.
The colonial assembly, receive with the naoft
lively pkafure, the aflurances of fiiendfliip addref
fed to them, by their brethren of the United States
•f America. This token of afFcftion from our el
ders in revolution, is a sure guarantee of the gene
rat approbation, which will crown thdfe acls of pa
tiiotic devotion and energy by which this colony
: . ; toas prcferved itfelf from ruin. Called by the in
• dulgenee of my colleagues, to the pleasure of be
ing the interpreter of their sentiments towards
you, and to transmit to you an eMtraift of their ses
sions, of the 6th of Meffidor, a capy of which is
subjoined, and also to mark to you the indignation
with which they are penetrated at the offentive re
ceptiou given to the Americans, by thole two tin
prudent men who have executed justice upon them
selves, in delivering us of their presence. Deign
to assure your brethren and fellow-citizens of our
inviolable attachment and deflre, to tighten the
bands of fraternity and commerce which unite us.
(Signed) CHAIJRET,
President ef the Co'onial AfTembly.
The embargo at the Isle of France was laid, it;
_ consequence of the preparation of fix frigates for
a secret expedition, and was taken off as soon as
they failed.
z BENEVOLENCE.
lie SIR,
x- NEXT to the prime object of my work, pub
lished by you, viz. the promotion of a moral,perma
nent, and happy union between the twi /exes, in our
jU common privileged country—it has been my wish,
in cempufing and compiling it, to render it subser
vient to the relief of the unfortunate. It isaccor
cerdingly my determination, to devote the whole
pecuniary profits, which may arrive to me as an a<u.
thor from ths present itspreflion, (without deduc-
M ting or receiving for mylelf a Jingle volume or its
t h price J to that public, whefe entertainment and im
provement originated the publication. The un
commonly definitive ronßa!;r»ii>n, whi h lias ate- f* 1
ly overwhelmed our fitter city Savannah, in Geor- 1
gia ; and involved fifteen hundred houfelels fuffeffcra lrl
in its awful consequences ; has justly arid deeply
excited the general 1 aking the public
pulse for my guide, and trailing 'hat I shall have '
numerous follower* in so urgent a cause— I there- p
fore desire you (as soon as the profits ai <he publi
cation will admit) to pay to MeiTu. Clay, Habbr- 1
SHAM, »t><l Younc, the committee, appointed to >'
receive- don ;tion?, for Savannah, ONE HUN- e
DRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,in the name 1
of the author of tine American Spcflator, or IVlatri- a
moma! Preceptor,.towards the relief of his unfortu
nate fellow-.-itizens of that place ; and to express a
to them his ardent desire, that theii infant city (so >i
lately emerged from the wrecks #f the American
war) may rile, like the fabled Pncnix, from its
aihes, and long reflect a diilinguifhed luitre, from
its CIVIL, MORAL and RELIGIOUS ASPECT. It is
my wish, to have trie present appropriation consider
ed, as an humble effort, t #n the part of a New- 1
England author, to comply, in his sphere, with £
the late affedlionate address of the illustrious
father of our country; recommending (among <■
other objc&s of the bighefl national moment) the '
cultivation of a community of interefls £nd attach- 1
ments, between the. Northern and Southern States, t
It is also my desire, that FIFTY DOLLARS
be paid, in like manner, (as soon as the profits of !
the sale may admit) to the Treasurer of the Con- j
veation of the Clergy of this State, to be added
to the contribution annually made in Bojlon, fur <
the relief of dependent widows and orphans of de- 1
ceased Clergymen; in token »f refpett to the me- 1
mory of those venerable chara&ers who disinterest- 1
ly devoted their life to the moll noble and benevo- '
lent office sustained among men. Should the work
become ptfpular, and future editions give ability,
I ara willing to plight my faith to the public, that
a addition (hail be made, fri>m time to
time, to the Hated contribution annually colle&ed i
far the relief of a part of the community, which |
has so tender and religious a,claim upon our charity.
THE AMERICAN SPECTATOR."
Majfachufetts, Dec. 30, 1796.
Mr. David West, Dujloa.
C 3* The benevolent Printers through the Union,
by giving circulation to the above in their papers,
may promote the cause of virtuous philanthropy,
and accelerate the bettowmer.t of the Author's cha
rities.
IN THE PRESS,
Si fid fjitll be Published Immediately,
Twenty-Six Letters, upon interefiing sub
! jedls, refpefting the revolution of America. Writ
p ten in Holland, in the year 1780.
By his Excellency JOHN ADAMS,
While he was sole minifler plenipotentiary from
, the United States of" America, for negociating a
peace* and a treaty »f commerce, with Great-Sri
. tain.
CO* At a time when the daemons of anlifedera
lifm are ransacking the reservoirs of malice and en
•vy, for materials wherewith to (harpen their darts
, of calumny againlt that worthy and patriotic cha
) raser, to whose «sertiona in the cause of liberty,
j [next to Washington} we are indebted for our
. independence, and present happy constitution—at
j a time when every art is pra&ifed, and every fer
. vile tool employed to blast the honor, and mifrepre
n sent the principles of the sage compatriot of Wash
. ington—it is it that the truth (hould be uni
r verfally known. Thefa letters were written at the
j most interefiing period of the American reveluti
. on, and far exceed any eulogium bettawed by an
,] anonymous pv<- —they need b; read oa!y, to inspire
, the reader with a just administration of thtir au
. thor. [Bojlon Columbian Centinel.]
[ The above mentioned work may be had at the of
fice of the Gazette of the United .Stnets. Price 25
[j Cents. J
1. CONGRESS of tHE UNITED STATES.
is —
e HOUSE OF REPRESENT ATI VE?»
y Monday, January 2.
Mr. Swanwick presented the petition of John
Marie de Boide, forrecompence for his ftrvices du
-- ring the wi.r.
OHjetlions were Blade to the admitting of this
ft petit ion, on the giound of its being inilecwroyfly j
f warded, and, from its having been determined u
*s pon in a former fefiion. The indecorum complain
-1 ed of was-the use of the name of the chairman of
r- the late committee of claims, mftead of the com
j. mittee, when speaking of the fate of his former
y petition. In answer to the other objr&iop it was
1- remarked that the present petition proposed to
bring forward an account current which had not
!s before been produced. Mr. spoke hijjh
f. ly of the merits of this petitioner, who, he said,
is from a pure patriotism and a love of liberty, had
m fought in the American cause (luring the late war,
e- for which service he never intended to have made
1 a charge ; but having afterwards gone !s the Weft
n- Indies, and being one of the fufferers at St. Db
a mii;go, by which he was reduced to dillrtfs and
if he had made a claim Upon the United
ie States i«r his services. Mr. S. believed he was
now kept by t farmer fomewherc in the conhtry,
in eon&deratian of his past fei vices ; and, as to any
y. infoimality ef his petition, he believed it arose fiom
in ignora«'t-e of the forms required, (being a French
jr man) and hot from any intention to offend the le
as giflature of a country, which he termed in the con
cltifion of his petition, the freeft and iiappielt in the
world.
On a motion for reference, it was rejeftcd, there
being only 20 in favor of it. / ,
b- Mr. Swanwick said he had another petition to
j- prefrnt, which was of rather an unplealant nature,
:ir as it complained of the conduct of a public officer.
h, It was from William Pechin, measurer of coal and
r. fait, complaining that he had only received 164!.
r- 19s. 7d. from Mr. Dclany, the collector, instead
tie of 3471. 14s. Bd..and praying Congress t6 take
u- such steps in his favor as (hould givfe him the bal
c- ance. It was referied to the committee of corn
er merce and manufaflutes.
n- Mr. Swanwick also presented the petition of
n- Philip Stimel, «f this city, Snuff aaanufadurer,
(irayl fr for a renrfllon of duties on foufFlcftby the
dcitruftion of his mill on Ridly creek, by a frelh
in Augliit 179J- Referied 10 the Secretary of the
Treaftiry.
Mr. Livingfton presented two petitions ; the one
from John Hughes, of New-York, Au&ioneer,
praying for a remission of duties on 73 tierces of
Salmon dei'.r yed by the late fire ; and, the other
from William Uftick, merchant, of the fame place
fur the remission of duties on 73 hoglheads and 91
csfrs of claret destroyed by the fame unhappy event.
They were referred to the committee of commerce
and manufa&ures.
' On motion of Mr. Venable it was resolved that
all business referred to the committee of elt'.fMong
in the last feffun, and not determined upon, should
be referred to the present commiltee.—Agreed.
Mr. D. Foller, from (he committee of claims,
made reports on the petitions of Francis Menges,
William Story, Sarah Thompson, and Michael
Levadore, which were all of rhem unfavourable to
the petitioners. The reports were twice read and
concurred in by the House.
Mr. Swanwick moved that the report of the
committee of commerce and manufactures 011 the
fubjed of kidnapping negroes and mulattoe?, should
be recommitted to that committee, with iullruc
tions to report by bill or otherwise.
On motion, the quettion was divided, "but both
parts of it were carried by a confidera'ole ma
jority.
Mr. Murray said he had laid a resolution upoa
the tabic, on the fubjedt somewhat coririe&ed with
the one just difpofedof, which he wished to call
up. It was for the appointment of a committee
to enquire into the 1 propriety of amending the aft
refpedting fugitives from juiiice, and perions efcap.
ing from the fcrvice of their msfttri. The relo
lution was agreed to, and a committee of three
members were Appointed.
Mr. Parker called up the resolution which some
d.yVag© laid upon the table, relative to a eallupon
the Wefident for information with refpedt to the
treaty with the dey and regency «f Alliens. Mr.
Parker fair! he found in the Prefiient's address, at
the opening of the feffiori, this paragraph, " After
many delays arid difappointitieiita, arising out of
the European war, the final arrangements f«r the
'•] fulfilling of-the engagements made to the dey ijni
' , iegencv of Alglsrs, will, in all present appearance,
' be crowned with success ; but undei grent, tlrOiT«h
1 inevitable difadvanuges in the pecuniaVy tranl'ac
tions, occasioned by that war, which will render a ,
further provision necessary." Under tlicfe circtim- *
| stances, it was not only proper to know what far
! ther legislative measures were necessary ; but also to
| learn what (teps had been taken for carrying-into
j effect the treaty with the dey and regency of Al.
I giers. It was last year, he said, ratified by the
Prelident and Senate, and that House had palled
the necessary appropriations, and he wns furry that
any delay had taken place in carrying it into cfi'eft,
as he understood, some of the priioners had died
between the period of ratification and that of the
releafement of the citizens held in (lavery. Some
} difficulties had arif*n, it fremwi, w'th which they
were not acquainted, aud therefoie he had brought
forward the prefeVit resolution, doubting that
the Prelident would readily gi* the information
required.
Mr. Sitgreaves suggested whether it would ntit
be proper to wait until they received from the Prelt
dent the communications which they had reason to
■ expect from his fpeerh. It was certain they should
teceive information fiom t'nfc proper department it)
due time. The President had said that farther ap.
propriations would be necessary, and of cuurfe, in
e formation would be given them on the fubjedt-
When this information (hould be communicated, if
it should not be so complete as to fatisfy the curio
r fity of the mover of this resolution, he might lay a
resolution upon the table calling so 1 father particu
lars. But, in the mean time, he thought it moll
proper to rcccive the communication which they
every day expe&ed. He had no objection to the
resolution in itfelf-j he only thought it would be
more refpedlful to the Prefidciit to wait a few days
lor the information desired, than to a fit fori!.
n Mr. Parker wished notto failinrefpeiS tot'r.echief mi*
._ giffrate ; but as large sums of.money had been appro
priated to onrry the treaty into yet, for fume
cause or other with which they were not acquainted the
18 business had not been completed, it became important
y to have some information on the fubjeft. There wai
I- great anxiety, he in the minds of merchants tra
ding to the Mediterranean, to lenow the state of this*
jP affair. He thought, therefore, they ought to obtain it
as soon as poflitle. It was from refptiS to the Presi
dent that he had not called up the resolution before that
■ r time. It the enquiry was longer delayed he thought
as the house would be wanting in duty to their eonffitu
o ents. Alter the resolution w-aspafTed, hefhoald not be
>t for prelling the fubje<si more than other gentlemen.
3- Mr. Craik said he did not kuow that there was fiich
1 1 a resolution on the table till then; but even from the
id mover sown confefiion, he did not fee any use in the
mtafure, as he had laid he did not mean to press the
matter after the resolution should have pafTed. The
I 1 efuient had told them at the openiag of the lefiion
chat more money would be winted, owing to some
J- einbarrafiments having taken place ; it was therefore
id to be expeditd that he would give them every neciTa
:d ry information on the l'ubjedl ; but if they entered in
a9 to the present resolution, it would be tacitly charging
y, '"J 5 ""fluent with neglect. The fubjeA Mr. Craik
iv .was n #t particularly pressing, and, as they had
J much other bulinefs on hand, and as he doubted not
' they would hate the information in due time, he should
b- be oppoled to the lefolution.
e- Mr. Gallatin wished a clause in the law passed
lalf leflion to be read : be believed it was expressed
le in genera) terms, fit was read and proved to be
e President in his speech, when he alludes
re to this fubjedl, said Mi. G. only fays that "final
arrangements for fulfilling the engagements made
to to the and Regency of Algiers, See." and
e, concludes with " mealures are in operation for ef
r" J reaties with the Regencies of Turns and
id 1 ripoli." And it was perfectly clear, that if raea
(.l. lures had not succeeded with the latter powers,
id there was a lufficient turn appr6priated to carry in
7to tfic,a tllc trtat y - w 'th Algiers ; because there
was ot onl y appropriated the monisy for carrying
B- that treaty into effefl, but also an additional ft.m
of 200,0c0 dollars for both ebjefts. He did not
of know, th.refer e , whether they should receive any
r, infermation «n tijis fubje&, except it was callcj for.Mr. G. said they had already received an estimate
of the expen es Lr the year 1797, and although,
tbcfe were fevcral items relative to foreign inter
course, there was not a* single thing about an ap
propriation for the Alg eri bulinefs. He thought
therefore, tho' fnms might be wanted for effe&ing
treaties with Tunis and Tripoli, the appiopriation
would be wanted next year, and not this, ana there
fore there would be money enough now for Algiers.
The only question was, whether it was their duty
to ask for the information contained in the refolu
tiion ; he believed it was, especially when they
were told thee had been great pecuniary losses,
they certainly had a right te> know what they were.
The propofuion, he said, did not ask for informa
tion how the treaty had been completed, but how
the money had been disposed of. This was infor
mation they had aright to have, in order to form a
judgment whether these losses might have been a
voided or not ; and, an he belived they should not
have the information except it was asked Tor, he
should vote for the refolutian.
Mr. Gilbeit did not doubt but they should get
the information wanted in a few days, without en-j
tering into a resolution on the fubjeft. They had
been promised information on other fubjedts, and
they'nn'„ht be confident it was all in far.vardnefs,
and would be commnrucated as soon as pofii le.
Mr. Livingfton said gentlemen feemcd to take it
for granted that the President meant to communi
cate to them information on the fubje&of ihc trea
ty withithe Dey and Regency of Algiers. He
did not find this in the Prcfident's address ; he
found only a kind of exeufe that the treaty had not
been carried into effeit. He did not fay he would
communicate what was the immediate occalion of
the delay. It was the duty of the house, he said,
in a twofold point of view to call for this informa
tion ; firft, that they might provide the necessary
fund, and secondly ta know what had been the
cause of the great delay. The appropriation for
carrying the treaty into effedt had been long since
made, and unless circumstances unavoidable, and
urgency very cogent, had taken place, he would
not help thinking there mud have been a fault in
some department or other. It was not to be pte.
fumed the delay was with the President ; but he
believed it might be presumed there was a delin
quency somewhere. It was not enough for them
to be told that the delay arose from unavoidable
circumlhuceo j it was their duty to look the
business, and therefore he thought the present call a
very proper one.
Mr. Swc.iwirk said the gentleman from New-
York (M~ Gilbett) seemed to think they might
wai> a few days lor the information wanted- Mr.
S. said they had already waited for it a month, and
Bothi ; was yet brought forward. The feflion,
he faiii, waslitjitted, and it was important that the
bufi ess to which the resolution before them rela
ted, should be speedily taken into consideration.
It was very important as it refpefted commerce,
which was never in a more critical situation than at
present. It was high titpe, he said, to go into an
enquiry on this fnhjeiS, in order to know the train
in which the l»ifinefs was placed, and to what the
delays had been Siting. He believed they had been
owing to the derangetnents of money tranfa&ioiis
in Europe ; but of this they ought to be it,formed,
aAd if thete was any charge to be made againtt the
house on the occasion, it was for having delayed the
enquiry so long.
Mr. Gilbert, said, the gentleman last up seemed
to speak as if the house had nothing to do, and
were waiting for business from the President. He
said there were various objects of great importantce
to the United States which called for their attenti
on ; and as he had before said, a short time would
probably bring the information without application;
and as they did not know that it was unneceffanly
retarded, there was no use in palling the present
resolution.
Mr. Sitgreavas said, gentlemen who supported
this motion,fpoke as if the right of the House had
beendifputed to make the enquiry. He had not
heard this doubted. The only reason foroppofing
it was, that it was lyineceffary, and less refpeAful
than it would be to wait for the communication.
The President had said that a farther appropriation
.was necessary this feflion, and he thought this was
a fufficient answer to his colleague (Mr. Gallatin)
and not next feflion, and therefore, he presumed,
he would take care, at a convenient season, that the
neciffary information was laid betore them. He
would"not call upon them to make appropriations
without {hewing beth the neeeflity and the quan
tum required. He had already said there could be
no question about their light of calling for the in
formation in question ; but he would not be un
derload to presume with the gentleman from New-
York (Mr. Livingfton) that was a delin
quency famewhere ; if this were preinmed, it would
be directly in oppefition to afferiion of the
President, who bad told them the circumftaHces or
delay, &c. had been inevitable. Upon whatptin
ciple, tberefore, gentlemen should conceive there
had teen a delinquency somewhere, he could not
fee. He-was therefore pppofed to the resolution.
The' qtfellion was taken and carried 44 to 3'"
A committee ot two members was appointed to
cany the revolution into cfied.
£To be continued.]
1
A Printing-Office for Sale;
Situate in the city of Burlington, on the river De
law are, about 40 miles from Philadelphia.
Consisting of -
French Canjion, Roman and Italic
Double Pica, ditto ditto
English, ditto ditto
Small Pica, ditto ditto
Do. on Piea body, ditto ditto
Two line Letters —Flowers
.A good Manogany Prefe —Imposing Stone
Jilfo, Chafes, Gallies, Composing-sticks, Racks,
Furniture, &c. complete.
The situation is eligible for business, and the office
'calculates! to execute any kind of work. The terms
»re«a£»«able. Apply to H. Kammerer, jr. Crown
street, near Uace-fheet, at No. 43» Racc ilieet, or
of Mr- John Neale, Burlington.
January 10
Philadelphia,
THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 12, 1797.
Married, yesterday, at Friends'meeting in Pine
ftreet, Joseph Crukshank, Printer, t® Rachel
daughter of Joseph Saunders, late of this
city.
The following Gentlemen were elected on the 10th
111 ft. Directors of the Insurance Company of Narth-
America for the ensuing year, viz. . *
MefTrs. Meflrs.
Joseph Ball John Leamy
Thomas Bell Magnus Miller
Peter Blight Thomas L. Moore
Samuel Rlodget Philip Nicklin
Samuel Breck Charles Pettit
David H. Conynjham Robert Kalfton
John Craig William Read
V\l iliiam Cramond William Sanfom
James Crawford Robert Smith
Samuel Emery Samuel Sterrett
Standifh Ford John Vaughan
Thomas XV. Francis Francis Welt
Ferdinand Gourdon
And at a meeting of the Board yesterday, Charles
Pettit, Esq. was chosen Prcfident, and Ebenczer Ha
zard, Secretary.
COMMUNICATIONS.
1 he complainings and-forrows, the pathetic apo
strophes of monsieur Adet'a note, and indead of
all the eh we hare been blelt with, remind one of
the tender exclamations of the hag-killer in the
poem, to the pi;j that squeals and flares when the
knife is at his throat.
" why kick—why fqneal—be still!
" W'ont you be kill'd and cured a little ?"
It was early predicted that an energetic national
government waß necessary in this country for the
ptirpofe of checking the inroads of foreign influence
through the individual state governments. It was
forefeeß that if the states held their foveteignty in
an independent capacity, it would be no very im
probable thing that a foreign power should cor
rupt demagogues fufficient in number and popularity
to bend th? measures of their government to foreign
machinations- That this mighty evil would pro
bably h»»e happened either from corrupt motives,
or from ignorance, a few events within the lall
have clearly manifetted. Among the
laieft we hear of is the inttance mentioned in a let
ter (lately published in the Gazette of the United
States) from South-Carolina. If it be true that
Charles Pincknf.y, the governor of that Hate,
declared (as is therein asserted) in his inauguration
fpeecti, that the federal government had behaved
moji infamovjly to the Freßch, and that he hoped
that the brench wouldfoon bring us to a ferfe of our
political errors, it is deeply to be lamented that the
evil intended to be guarded againfl could ndt be
\nU\c\y prevented as well as cured. That the mif
chief arifmg from such a remark loses all its tting
from the ignorance of him who was capable of
making it, is a consolation it is true ; but it like
wise proves how essential it is to have a government
mnving on great, uniform, aud exalted national prin
ciples, whose authority may palsy into-dei'erved
impotence the Ji; tie tyrant who 'might wi/h to em
broil his own country from luve of a foreign land !
A certain tyrant of antiquity had s singular
punishment that at once evinced bis love of the fine
art!, and his refined tajle Jor cruelty. He had a
piece oftT)achasifm rxquifitely executed in the forth
of a beautiful woman. Wlifn his friends offended,
he ccinfigned them to the arms and embraces of
this lovely automaton, which by the touch of cer
tain springs clasped the beloved friend in her Jiily
arms, and fque&ed him to death ! Mr. Adet
and hii fraternal amateurs have attempted ta cul
tivate a taste for this species of the fine arts—
Tears—embraces—exquisite sensibility—the molt
endearihg small talk—The lovely automaton for ever
held up to view—aud nothing wanting to fct her
arms in motion but a firm basis for her fret to reft
on, that her embraces and squeezes may be felt by
the lutly and tree sons of America.
Translated for the Gazette of the United St#es,
from Hamburgh paper J, received by an arrival at
Neiv-Tork-
HAMBURGH, Nov. 5.
Letter fiom Italy, the 12d of Ottober.
The following it the lettei which the king of
Naples sent to the marquis del Vafto, who thereup
on departed to Rome as an extraordinary messenger
and concluded there a treaty offenfive and defenf
j ive between Naples and the pope—
In a letter ftom your holiness I »m informed
that you are resolved to reject the tmjuft and impi
ous conditions of the French. Therefore you de
sire of me, fpcedy lifiiftance. Although this is a
gainst my firft plan, yet I have had no objedlion to
<jive my fonfent to it, because it has a connexion
with the holy religion to which I was always with
my whole heart devoted. As you defii'e of me a
person of whom ynu can take counsel refpefting our
common affairs, 1 have appointed the marquis del
Vaflo ; to depart immediately ; to take great sare
for the honor of God and the holy church, and
the best means of the Rates for the quiet ness ®f my I
fnbjefts, who daily give such new proofs of their
fait hfulp.efs and devotion.
From the camp of Gwmano.
FERDINAND, King.
A letter from Mayence, OiSober 29..-
Thc imperial army now on the scene of *var in
Germany is situated in the following manner. Ge
neral Weroeck has under his command an the
Lower Rhine and the Lahn; the field marshal lieut
tenants De Kray, prince de Lambefc, and ceant
Kicfk, and the major-generals, duke d' Anhalt, Ccf
then, prince de Hoienlahe, Ingelfinger., the counts
Rofenberg and Kollowrath, and the barons Mylius,
Haddick, Gouireuil, Finck, Kienmaier, Brady,
lilfniz, and Alcaini. On the other fide of the
Rhine remain the field-marfhal lieutenants Hotze
aud Neu, and the major-generals Simbfiien, Rhine-
Graf Salni, duke LLhtenflein, and Juke Schwartz
enberg.
In Suabia under the archduke Charles, are the
great mafler of the ordnance Wartenfleben, and
field-marfhal Latour, lieuienaNt-generali count Col
loredo, Mels, Nauendorf, Petrafch, Fto'ehlich,
Staar and Sz:array, and the major-generals prince
of Oranien, Balza. Meyetfeld, Manfrauld, Shel
lenberg, Mercantin, Wolf, Graven, Klinglin,
Meerfeld, Baillet, Due d'Ettghein.
A letter from Franekfort, October 291
The delivery of the ftlver vessels in Franckfortto
pay the contributiom to the French has contribut
ed very much to the coinage of new convention dol
lars, upon which, ob the reverse, stand the words
—Out of the Ji/ver vessels as the citizens and the
churches.
STOCKS.
Six per Cent. » - - - - - i(fio to 17
Three per Cent. ------ - 10 /o
per Cent. - -- -- -- --
S\ perCent 16/4
Deferred Six per Ceat. - itfi to 11/9
BANK United States, - 19 to 10 per ct
1 Psnnfylvania, - - - - 13 to 14 do.
" North America, - - - - 40 to 45 do.
Infuraacc Comp. N. A. (haret, - 37 i-z to 40 per ct.
Penniylv. 1 1-2 to 5 per ct. below par.
COURS.. OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, par to 175
at 60 days, par to 170
at 90 days, 161 i-» to par. (
Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder. 40
90 days, 4»
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, Jaiuary 11.
On Monday the dwelling-houfeof Eliflia Boudi
not, tfq. ofNewaik(N. J.) caught fire and was
entirely consumed.
Yesterday the canvafiar. began to number the votes
fer Rreprefentativcs in Congress. The following is
this days result.
Cooper. Cochran. Williamfo*. Total.
Ontario 41 320 40 401
Herkemer 493 514 not finiihed.
The Hon. the Legislature of this state, now conven
ed 'n Albany, made a quorum of both houses on Tues
day the 3d inft. We have detailed the most raateriaJ
parts of their proceedings.
The following resolution faffed the Striate of this State,
.4* the 4th infant.
Resolved, if the hon. the A/lembly concur there
in, that a joint committee of both houses fce v ap
pointed, to consider and repott, with all conveni
ent speed, what arrangements may be requisite to
render the monies which now are, and may from
time to time be paid into the treasury, preduftive
as income to the Kate : and further o devise and
report, whether any and what arrangements are ne
cessary for the better management and disposition
of the funds of the state. The afiembly concurred.
The committee arc MefTrs. Schyylet, Jones and
Caotii.c of the Senate, and Meflrs, Kent, Mason,
Ryersj Co.mftock and Blaachard of the afietnbly.
The proposition between Lord Malmfbury and the
Fier.ch Executive Directory amounts to but little im
portance, itniefs we admit that the comicfcenfion of
ta king more fully to each other in town, has, as the
Diretflory exprefsts it, somewhat of a mare amicable
appearance than the former overtures, made by Mr.
Wickhkm. i hat the King of Prsffia will.eventually,
hold a language in favor of the Stadtholdcr's reinftate
rflcnt we have no doubt of, and have formerly ventur
ed to predict.
A resolution is moved in the llotife of Reprefenta
lives, to enquire into title of the United State# to land
weft of the state of Pennfyhania. This business will
probably end with the firft motion ; but the prppofi
tion is a proof what a knack some men poflefs of mak
ing mifchief.—Suppofe another member ihould move
to appoint a committee to enquire into the title of -the
state of New-York, to lands weitof the Delaware.—
Some of our pert motion makers would have a talk on
hand to fatisfy enquiries on that point. Men who
love union and harmony will be flow to open the
wounds which are healed, or to intrude into the ju
diciary department to find sources of contention.
( Minerva.)
IH»1I imj 111 11,
A BALL.
y. DOZOL's BALL
Will be held en MONDAY NEXT, the 16th sf
January, at Mr O'Ellers's Hotel, and continue every
fortnight during the season
Gentlemen's Tickets, at one dollar each, to be had
at the bar of the above Hotel, where Ladies who
choose to honor him with their company, may also be
f»pplied with Tickets.
J. DOZ.OL refpedlfally. informs the Ladies and
Gentlemen, that he will continue his
Dancing-School
at the above Hotel. Hours of attendance for Ladi*s
are from 10 to 1 in the morning, and for Gentlemen
from 6 to 9 in the evening, Mondays, Wednesdays,
and Fridays, during the season.
N. B. Private Leflons will be given, either at his
school or at the houses of those who may favor him.
January 12 3
BALL.
New Cotillions, Scotch Reels, and Contre Dances.
Meflrs. Francis and Byrn beg leave to inform their
scholars, friends, and the public in general, that their
firft Ball for this season will be on Tuesday, the 24, at
O'Ellers's assembly-room ; at which a variety of new
Cotillions, Contre Dances, and the most cslebrated
Scotch Reels, will be introduced.
Meflrs. Francis and Byrn propose to give gratuitous
attendance at their school room, for the inftru&ien of
those Ladies and Gentlemen in their nesv dances", who
mean to honor the ball room with their presence,—at
tendance for this purpose after their school houri, on
Tueldays, and Thurl'days.
Tickets to be had of Meflrs. Fr-nces and Byrn No.
70, North Eight llreet, or at O'Ellers's Hotel. La
dies are requested to apply to their female friends,
scholars of MeJTrs. F. & B. or as above, at their resi
dence.
N. B. The new daaces will not infringe upon the
usual routine of the evening.
The days of teaching for their young pupils areThurf
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon
till.fix—-andonTueldays &Thursdays, from fix till nine,
for those of a more advanced age.
* Private tuition as ufuat.
January n, 179;. . aawt24.
Particular Teneriffe Wine.
jo Quarter-cafki Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a superior quality,
For Sale by >
A, Mar pie iff Israel W. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-street.
' January n tts6
WM. HAT DON,
Drawing-Master, from London,
Where he has flutlied several years under one of
the moll eminent matters in that science* attends
young Ladies and Gentlemen at their refpe&ivehomes.
His terras are 6 dollars per month for attendance three
times per week. Likewise all kinds <jf ornamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, &c. taught on the above
terms. A line directed to W. H. left >vith the Editor
of this Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
January 9. »^t
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
Company,
January 6, 1797.
At a meeting of the President and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollars per (hare, -was declared for the
last half year, which will be paid to the Stockholders,
or their representatives any time after the »ift of this
month.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treahrer.
J an - 6. uw4w.
Boarding and Lodging
May be had at No. 6j, Penn-llreet, in a creditable
family
January 9
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth-Jlreet,
RETURNS hs grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of thtir favors.
He has cm hand an extenflve assortment of the
Moji Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, faitable for the season.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furnifted withthe best
materials, and have them made up in the neoteft and most
Fashionable manner, and on the (hortcft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
punitual attention;' to them.
November 10. ws
Bank of the United 3'ates,
December 26tb, 1796.
WHERSAS the following described Certificates
of Public Debt, credited in the books of the Treasury,
and of Stock of the Bank of the United States, were
101 l with the brig Peggy, John Hyer, mailer, on her
pafiage to London—Therefore notice is hereby given,
that application will be made for others of the fame
description agreeably to tha rules established at the
Treasury and Bank of the United States refpe<slively.
CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC DEBT.
Daie&No. In whofefavor issued. Do-lls.Cts.
Mar. 4,1796.
Waiter Bpyd, tof icooo each def. affu.
* 176 t0 J ' OCO
2177 ditto 1 5421 53 do.
Feb. 16.
14036 Fermin de Taftet, 1 jjoa 6perct. doml
Mar. 4.
14076 Francois G.de Toumei, 1 4000 do.
14077 ditto I 855 47 do.
3528 Diego Di'jmer, , 67444 do.affu.
3559 ditto l j 169 u do.
Feb. 16.
'4°34 ditto 1 5499 46 do. dom.
Mar. 4.
14078 Joseph Lucas 1 3000 do.
3527 ditto 1 1000 do.affu.
Feb, «6.
i4°3i Pares & Heygate, 1 2632 58 do. dom.
3517 ditto j ,367 do.affu.
2618 ditto 1 j goo 3 per et. do.
Mar. 4.
10834 & ( F. C. Poumt, veuve)
1083s i leCoulteulx, ) * 5 00 c each do.dom.
10836 ditto 1 ssgi 10 do.
ditto 6 5000 each do. affu.
264% ditto 1 *oq6 28 do.
Feb. 16.
9273 Elizabeth Rutt, 1 14000 def. dctn.
2160 Edward Steers, a 365567 do. ass*.
9274 ditto I 440 70 do.dom.
Mar. 4
9303 Hannah Shelly » * 5 6 a 23 do. do.
Sr{ S " ® CD j. Thompfoa, 3 5080
5167 R- v. G. K. Whatley, s 2000 def. affu.
a 168 ditto 1 1600 40. do.
CERTIFICATES OF BANK STOCK.
Dates&No. In whose favor issued,
Jan. t . >796.
19609 to) j feph Atkinfon, sos 1 (hare.
■9613 ) ,
1946 Thomas Andros, j (hares.
4112 ditto a{h*«>4
3871
5° 15 j
William Barnard, 7 J (tare,
>9*i9 I
to J
19261 J
3076 &) Alexander Blair, a 5 (hares.
2138 )
9 fi 4 & {ditto ft 10 (hare*
a 95 ) J .
2854 ditto 1 4 fhartii
David Bogue, t , (hare:
609 Martin de Havillaod & 5 iharei*
1666 ditto 1 4 fhare».
296 a ) ® atnue ' Ethoridge, 4 i
2967 ditto » a (hares,
to 100 Joshua Grigby, jun. 5
'■l o2B *} Mrs. Sarah Harrris, 1 J (hare.
14024 ) 1 •
>■* rmxiri'
a4'3' 5 ' ) ditto * 3 (hares.
2414 }
405! ditto 1 5 (hares.
54 Nathaniel Le Cocq, * 6 (hares,
si Si 2421 Wm Peter LeCocq, a j (hares.
a 539 Joseph Lucas, 1 $ (hares.
) Thomas Mullet, * l (hart.
>353 J ) '
2954 to ) Thomas Raikes. 4 S (hares.
*957 )
3293 ditto 1 It (hares.
2868 & ) Wluilmßiik «» * 5 ftur,fc
2984 ditto * 7 (hares.
392 ditto J 3 (hares.
4067 Rsv.Cha. Richards, 1 * (hares. J
10209 & )
10210 )
5714 Charles Steers, ' J (hare.
2950 ditto 110 (hares.
3084 ditto I a (hares.
>913' &1! JamesStoers, a 1 each.
19131 ) J '
539 George Watfoa, I 5 (hates;
iaw6w G.SIMPSON, C;Cbjsr,In Council, 22d December 179^.
The Executive of Virginia will, on or before the firll
day of March next, be ready to receive proposals' for the
importation from Europe, of
Four thousand ft&nd of Arms.
To be delivered at Richmond, in the ccurfe of the ensuing
fearr—Eivch ftafed to consist of a muflcet, the length of
the barrel to be three feet eight inches, and to receive a
ball of the (ize of eighteen to the pound—a double bridled 1
lock upon the best con(lru<sfcion —neat brass mounting—
steel ramrod, and to be well (tockedwith black walnut;
and a bayonet one foot five inches in the blade—a car
touch '/vox, Suitable to the muiket, to contain twenty-four
cartridges, with neat black leather belts, mounted with
brafj buckles.; together with a brush wiper for the pan,
and picker for the touch'-hole. The Executive will also
be ready to receive propefals, within the period above
mentioned, Tor the manufacturing within this Rate, the
like number of (land of arms, to be delivered at Rich
mond, in the course of the year 1798.
Bjrcrder of the Executive,
Attest,
A. Blair, C. C.
Jan. 6. *eo3t.
> S W A N N'S
Riding School, & orfe Academy iff Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his fjneere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence in this |Cky, and
- flattershimfeit that the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
obftinaie and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he bas
been cnnfulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their futuretavors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, ere&ed for the
purposes above described are ope* sos the reception of pupils
of either (ex, w.ho wish 10 beinftm6ted in the Art of Ridings
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
tbcm with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses wtll be
carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient toi he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are Ihut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of adion which providcnce has so bounti
fully beflowed on them.
Also, at his hofpitai, every diforrfer to which the horte is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by I«ng and repeated experience.
The utility of the above institution has never been qneftion
cd, that it has long been wanted ia this eity, every gentleman'*
stud will manifeft, and T. Swann as theftrtt cftablifher of
the veterenary art, Solicits a*d relies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
bring it to perfection. The idea of a Subscription for rtiat
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wifti to
promote the institution—the amount of each fubfeription to
De returned by Services in any of the departments he profeiTes,
agreeable to the rate of charges dated in his hand bill. Such
fubfeription is now open, and the Signatures of many refpeft
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms hit
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he, has not
the honor of being known, that he shall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folicking their fupporC
and protection.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladles and
Centlemenwho with to be inftrudled.
Nov. 5. tth&f.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the cafe and convenience of merchanti
in general; but particularly for t'uofe who are ex
tenfiveiy concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the <;ourfe of the whole year,
for each month feparatively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
the mode now in use, of fele&ing the bills due in
each month from the promiscuous entries of several
months.
To which is prefixed,
t abk shewing the number of days from any day
any rr.onth, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, priatitd for and fold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January 2. tawtf
Paterion Lottery.
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and fixty-feren
doUars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a priza. viz
I Prize of jooo dollars is doilars 5000
I 1000 1000
t JOO 500
5 loco
10 100 »000
99 jo 4950
*00 ig 5000
3000 I© JO.OCO
5 Last drawn numbers of tooo dollars each, 5000
*33* Prizes. ' 44,450
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabliih
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperimendants of the Pat
er, on Lottery have requeued the Managers to offer the
foregoing Seheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery has ailually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finiftied. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
l'outh Second llrcet, who will give information where tick
ets may b« procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- CUMMING, •)
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, f Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
s Prize of 5000 ... JOOO
I 1000 - - - Iboo
I /5 00 - s€>o
5 2,00 „ 1000
20 ico • aooo
90 50 4500
165 ij - - - - 412J
The five last drawn tickets, loao e«ch, l 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is eonfiderably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly imreafed, and it n worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in the old scheme, that they can ex
change t>heir tickets for those in the above, it they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance eonfidering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be eftener, aind the Lottery soon fmjfhed.
is'ovembsr ia. rows
docks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, M AR.K ET-STRKET, PHILADELPHIA,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, » large assortment «f IV AJiRA NT E D
IVA"f CHE S, eonfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
J jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecowds, of superior
worknaanlhip and elegance; also capp'd and jewel <1
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches;
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clock«
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty ho»r, brass
works, &c.
Decembet 22, 1796. dim
Bank of North-America,
January 2, 1797-
At a meeting of the Directors this day, a Dividend ot
Six per Cent. was declared for the last half year, which
will be paid to the Stockholders or their representatives,
at any time after the xoth inilaot. «
By order of th: Board.
<itl6th JO HEN NIXON, President
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very Urge and heavy debts are justly
due and owing from mefirs. Bla;r M'CUnachan and
Patrick Meore, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading under the Brm of Blair M'Clenachan and P.
Moore, and from Blair M'Clenachan in his separate
capacity j to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it is clearly and fatisfafforily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Clenachan, of the said firm, lias eonveyc.l
away to mr. yobn 11. Hujlon, his son-in-law, to his
daughter, rail's M'Clenachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, federal large and valuable real estates,
as well as aoufiderable personal property, in the city
artd county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Cattle on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn alt persons whamfo
evcr, againlt thepurchafe from the said grantees, or
either of them, of any portioa of the said real or per
sonal property, as the most vigorous measures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the jttft demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitafimons, "J
Philip Nicklin, /
Isaac Ybarton, / Committee.
William M'Murtrie, I
Samuel IV. Fijher, J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1J96. 20th.J
TO THE PUBLIC.
| THE caution introduced into the public prints,
I warning all perfonr, against purchaliog from the
granteeiof Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and petfonal eftatei he conveyed away to
his fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upon the fubjeft by a general and
; numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Cleno-
I chan individually. It was no more than an execu
j tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers by
! those creditors : a step which it would have been a
' breach of duty and honor in them to have omitterl.
i The very ftatcment of the fa£t therefore mutt dif
! pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
lor vindiQive." It originated in a desire to secure
J the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
-1 ment of his just debts. It was fancSh'oned by the
advice of council as a measure necessary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the adveuiferaent has been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjuftiliajjle conduct, not to the fub
feribers «vho have merely published the truth in
terms as mild as the fatt would admit, and who
mean to iuveftigate in a high court of justice the
validity of thole purcbafes of which Mr. M'Cle
nachan fa confidently speaks. <
The fubferibers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
eaution against purohafing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
purchase from any other persons (if such there be)
to whem Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W.FISHER.
Philad. Dec. 21, 1796.
(i'T Those printers who have been requefled to
pubiifh the firft Caution, are desired to publlfh this
also.
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, froxi th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Vk --1 Prize of ao,ooo dollar*, ao,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 7
Tickets,each j s '°°° 3J.000
6 ditto l,oeo 6,000
• 10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 1,000
55 ditto jo a,7jo
J 750 ditto 11 69,008
To be raised for th» Canal, 46,1j»
5850 Priz«s, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Cemmifiioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a& for the punctual payment 01
the prizes.
The drawing ef tins Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th.
drawing is finiflwd, shall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit ef the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, ofD
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cie of Walhirgton, Feb. 11. §
A Manufa&ory FOR SALE.
A Valuable and CANDLE Manufactory, fftuate
m a convenient part of the city ; the worn* almoit new,
on an cutifely original conftiu£tion, and built of the belt
materials, and may be let lo work immediately. l Perloas
who wish to purchase, are requested to appiy at No 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open tlisfchool on Mon
day the,3lft xnft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Stress.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clook
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the fame clays.
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firfl pra&ifnag ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, No.1 34, Market
ftrbet.
Q St. 17. tthf
i wenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fubicriber ©n the 23d O&ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 year#
1 old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probajble ke may change
his name and dress. He has beeu accuftomod to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for securing him so that the fubferiker may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlain<?.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 Simaawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King,and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete alTortinent of every thing neceflTary
to be used for*he
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate j excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
alio furnifhes Brulhes and foft Sponges.
*J* He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve
Fourth-flreet.
November a 6. y.__
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sea/on,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 11
ailes on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro
vided, and great care will be taken of them
William Bell.
Nov. 13. mwfiwmthtf.
Samuel Richardet
O ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CiTY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the |
city of Philadelphia:
The tlubfcription Room will be fumifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
mercial citi«s of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken arway on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of Frcnch Liquors; together with the usual refrefkments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder willbefuppiied with the prime and earliest
produ&ions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, op single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, th# liillof Fare to be had
at tha bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniftipd, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
-£3* S\mue 1. Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
! himfelf that nothing 014 his part shall be wanting lo pre
fervcthat patronage with which heliasbeen so diftinguilh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia April 19. mwf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby givoh, that prapofals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Traafury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for the supply of all ratiofi« which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftri&s
after montioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at
Pjcfque lfte; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandufky
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pktfburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place bdow Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort MafTac ; at any place from Fort MafTac
to the-fouth boundary of the United States on the riVer
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at OuiatanOn.
If fuj»plies fhaU be required for any pofls or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such fiiall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to thole to be'paid at the
posts before recitdd, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Cont:-ailor.
The rations to be Supplied arc to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread #r flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen oui*es of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, Uraady or whi&cy.
One quart and half a pint of £alt."\
Two quarts of Vinegar, (
1 wo pounds or boap, f
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be fumifhed in l*ch quantities, as that
there fcallatiall times during the said term, be fuilioirjlt
for the coaiiimption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, far the term of fix months in
advance, and at. each of the other posts, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good an d wholesome
provisions.is thefame stall be required. It is to be un-
Jsr flood, that the Contractor is to beat the eat pence and
rifle of issuing the fuppli«s to the troops at each poll, and
that all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the tr.ops of the United States, lhail be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depofitioFis of two or more persons of creditable cha
ra&ers, and the ecrtifi*ate of a commiffioncd officer, af
certaimng the circumstances of the lofc, and the amount
of the ai titles for which oompenfabon liiall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Stsrctary of tie 'I reafusy.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
A r t>. 64, South Second street.
/""THICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a.
L Check for examination—and prizes paid is
frhe late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and regificring, for
the City of Wafliington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and priaes exchanged for undraw*
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber folicitt the application of the public
and his friends, who wifla to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands*
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property
%* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at T#n Duller* each, whieh will be drawn early iu
the Spring.
Win. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Atxruft 1796. mth
City cI Walhington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, \ T o.II>
fOR THE IMPRCVIMEJJT 0 t TJi£
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 10,000 dollars, & >
dwclliiig-houfe, ) calh j 0,000, are j ~' ao ®
I ditto 15,000 & caf»is,ooo 40,0e»
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,600 & cash 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,000 io,uo«
i cash priii* of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 eachi aft • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
ao do. 500 . . 10,00 a
00 do. 100 • - 10,000
aoo do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 25 - - 10,000
i,oog do. zo - 20,000
15,00© do. 10 - 1511,00 a
16,739 Prizes.
53,261 Wanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofsvour those who may lake a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last draw*
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either monsy
or prize*, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimeu of the pri
vate buildings to be ereded in the City of
Two beautiful designs are already felefled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawingi
it ispropofed toered two centreand four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A itett dedu&ion of fire par cent, will be made to defray
the necelfary eipenfes of printing, the furpluj
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
UHiveriity, to be ereded within the city of Walhington.
The Drawing will oomn*»t.ce as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is Unilhed ; and any prizes for which fortunate
number 1 ate not produced within twelve months after tha
drawing is closed, are to be confidercd as given toward*
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
lag, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment 01 the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The tweaty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Comniifiioners aflifled in the managemeat of the
Hotel Lottery are requefledto undertake thisarduous talk
a second time 011 behalf «f the public ; a fuflicieut liura
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federai ob
jo&s may continue to favor the dtfign.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as .well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been f«nt for sale, the public are assured that th«
drawing will fpeedi y commtnie, and that the carc and
caution unavoidably ne. effary to insure a fafe disposal of
ths ticket*, has rendered the lnorr suspension indifpenlabU.
SAMUEL BLODGKT.
.§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Well & Co. Baltimore ;of Peter Oilman, often 5
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard VV «iU
Cooper's Ferry. co
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Sccond-Jlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
Por raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an A£t of
the Legillature of Pennfylvawia, passed during the *a.t
session, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 I'ri/.e of 20,c00 Dollar* . 20,000
> do. of to,ooo do. . . io,coo
3 do. ef 5,000 do. . . >5,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. . . 8,000
fio do. of 1,600 do. . . ac,oo»
39 do. of 500 do. - . 19,50 c*
80 do. of 200 do. - . . 10,000
>00 00. of 100 dow - . go,coa
300 do. «f do. - . 15,000
1 do. of 50b do. to be paid the posses- )
for of the firft drawn no. J
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid poflelfors /
of the five last drawn nos $
9,400 do. o 15 do. : . 141,000
10,054 Prizes 300,000.
10,046 blanks _
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000'
All Prizes Stall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finilhcd, upon the demand of a i.olfeflor of a fortune
lickct, fubjeft to a dedudtion of twenty per cent. Ihe
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are difpofcd
of, or perhaps looner. of which public notict will be given
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman,
Jofepb Hiejler, James Dinner, Thomas Dundas,
'James May, john Otto, John Keim, Daniel Crpeffl
iebajlian Miller, .Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 179b.
f ickets-in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
above office, where the earliest information of the draw
ing of the Wafhitigton No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif
tering are kept.
Oaober 7. a » wt f
PRIN TE D B Y JOHN FENNO
—No. 119 —
CHESXUT-STREET.
[Price Eight DoUais plr Araium.]