Number 1626.] ,
SALES BY AUCTION.
St.ited Sales
For I) R T GOOD S.
{"Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. $6,
iw A ) south Frynr-ftreet,
o . «)-j y^f ter(loon —Footman & Co. No. 6s
(_ South Front-ftpcet. a
f' Forenoon—John Connelly. Old City 3 _
„ N Auflion, No. -3 fout'h Front-street. ,
' Afternoon—William Shannon, No. 03
183 High-street,
C Afternoon —Peter Benfon, No. 74 "
> x( , ird . ftrcet .
~ f Forenoon!— Edward Fox.
urfc ay | Afternoon —John Connelly. ,
U . , 1 Forenoon—William Shannon.
n "J 5 Afternoon —John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoos —Peter fienfon.
■ ■ ■ ■ 1
Real Kit ate for ale, I wil
I* PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si- a PP
Li. tuafion on Chcftcr Creek, in Middle ton
Tov.nlhip, Delaware (Jounty, containing 119! „
acres, upward* of 50 aires of which are wood !
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land
nnd watered meadow —'► r the latter, many more
acres can be made at a laiall expence. There are
on said premises, a goo I orchard of he(l grafted
fruit,a l.oufe, with .1 spring near the door, a frame jA
barn with stabling under, and a log tencmant on p.'-
one part of said _ place—Any person inclining f.V,
to may view the premises by applying
to Wm. Pennbi.l, 011 said farm, and know the hgv
terms by applying to Jonathan Fknnell, in the or
Jsorough pt Cbclter. r
iiovcni!>cr 21. 3t eod
RE MO V~A~L
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he ,/n
bus removed his Store of China, GUIs, Queens KJ
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 8l MorthSt
cand, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north tail
corntr of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa- hui
vr of his former cuftumt rs. .. r
N. a. Crates put up with care at the (hortcft \i"j
poticc. fag
november 2. dtf
FOR SA<LE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
J<Jo. 55, the corn r of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and _
\\ r atch-s, Also, a general aiTortment of Tools,
"files and Materials, coßfifling of Clock Move
ment?, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
tp'ringM, Hands, Glasses, P* nice Stone, Emery, R
Kotttn Stone, Cat Gut; bWh, stand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c. £
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
November 3. ffctutf
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brown Hollands
White Sheetings
DowUfles
Silesia bordered Handkerchitfs
•Striped Siimoufes
\ Blark Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
■ Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glaflet, in
in cai'es, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
November 6. eod; w
FOR SALE,
j\ Team of five excellentHorfes, _
r-ith a Waggpn and Gears. TheWorfes are all
, »mg, strong, true to the draught, and capable
df hauling as great a weight as mol4 in the covsn-
OV- The Waggon and Gears are strong. and
iti good order. Apply to T GREEN,
V/e(t Town, Chtfiter county, or<:o
Thomas Fi/her, ,
No. 142, S. Second Street, Phila elphia
11 mo. 2, eodiw.
Samuel & iVliers fciftitr, ]
A»F. NOW QpEWING,
At their Warehouse, 4lq. 17, Dock Street, a frelh |
s fTortment of Woolen and other goods, fuitiblc to
tfce season, received by the late arrivals from Eng
ln.id.
Thev have for Sale,
Lisbon
Teneriffe ( , pipes,hhds. and quarter calks-
Sherry, and f n '
Port Wines, J
Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo- 23d. diw 3 taw3w.
Thfs Day Published,
A id 10 be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, «orner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Blhl of a Bollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained ia No. V and VI of
■" The ttiftory of the United States for
the year 1796,"
* In which the ciiakgb o» speculation againfl
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
IF RIT TE N BT HIMS EI F.
This publication prcfents a ecncife ftJtcmrnt
the base means pradifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charaders of thof<
ipirfout who arc considered as hostile to their difor-
fchemes. It ' also contains the cor-
Tlfpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'c, on the lub
iijSl of the documents aforefaid, and a series of lct
tirs from James Reynolds andhis Wife toMr.Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the connrdion between him and Reyno.,.s,
vus the rel'Qlt of a daring eonfpiracy on the part
•el the latter and his associates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
ttiffbe made in favor <;! wholesale purchaf rs, for
• &ash. Grders to be addressed to Mr Youno.
August IS-
n c 1 n g,"
MR. Ss* Mrs. B T R NE,
Of the New 1 heatre,
ESP'iCTFULLY inform the Ladies and Gen-
JK. tlemcn of Philadelphia, that Mr. Byrne's
j k , ademy will commence on the id, and £ Mrs.
] WkVe's on the 2d of December next.
November -
Wanted, to Hire,
i\ Lzr<rc and convenient HOUSIi, in of near
'JL the i entreof the city—lor .vhich a generous
v T,t will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
B k-re for a longer term. Inquireof thi Printer.
VA. 17. c
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 24, 1*797.
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet, H;
Captain Silas Swain. 25
A Large proportion of her j oc
"i«3»bS-54»£8£i cargo being ready ro go rn I nl |
board, is expeded to fall on or about Sunday, tile Qii
3d of December. Ma
For Freight or PatTage, apply to the Captain on j- ct
hoard, at Walnut f!'eet Wharf, or to Old
PHILIP NIC KLIN Ist Co. sail
november 22. § ' C!
_________________ *
FOR LONDON, g*
TUB SHIP g| a
Jf%WILIAM PENN,
- 1 James Josiah, Mailer. ICC
THE ship is now taking on hoard her cargo, and
will fail in all next week. For freight or paflage
apply to the captain, or to
Jeffe Robert Wain.
tro-o 21. §
For Liverpool, s° f
• I The Ship rcl;
CLOTHIER,
Nathaniel D. Gardner,majler, w
f V -ITTII.L fail about the tah p
VV inft. For freight or pas
sage anpl}' to thf Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf,
or to ' JAMF.S OLDDEN, B
nov. 3. dtf No 41, N. Bront-ftreet.
For Londonderry,
the brigantjne
suk er,
William Whittin, Matter.
- / strong good vessel, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great |part of her cargo engaged—now lyi ß g at .
Willing and Francis's wharf. Tor freight or paf
iaee, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landtillcrgir's icharf.
Who wants to Charter. s °
A Vessel of about three'.hundred tons.
OTIB. § J»
- W '
For Savannah, in Georgia, • p
THE SHIP
Sally Butler, q«
Captain Cms holm,
A new vessel, with excellent
accommodations for passengers
Sails on tKc ioth of December Bor Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS SIMSON.
Who have to dfyofe of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, ami a pan cl of HOLLY WOOD. ««
November 18. pj
For Hamburgh.
The Brig MARY, ~i
-Piter York, mailer, ,
If Lying atßuffel's wharf, near Pine
J ilreet, is now ready to take in a
? Cargo, and will fail in ten days.
J-or Freight, or Passage, apply «o
6 GURNEY & SMITH. (l
November r6. v
I ' —'"~ 7 ' tl
; For Sale or Charter,
The Snow A
' M*k, GOOD HOPE,
' Wi l carry about I 100 barrels, and
' s rcaJ y to ta^e ' n a car s°- f° r ttrms
apply to
a Pragers & Co.
No. 151, south Secend-ftreet.
Who have (or fait —prime St. Croix Sugar and *
5 Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
, November 7.
o ~
r! Rundle y Leech,
Have jull received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut llrect,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
'• Do. bed house CO * LS
Queens' WARE in cases, assorted
Bourdeaux ERANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in ca'es, do.
vfM THFY ~AVF ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER^
tue SUIP
° f PEGGY,
Burthep lts tons, in excellent condition, and
r may be sent to sea with little expenceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
° r WILLIAM,
t Burthen 2CI tons,
Y november 16.
iXi Wanted to Charter,
, nt To one port in Hifpaniola and back
£ faft failing Vessel, of the bor
or- then 0 f 6 or 700 batriils. For terms, apply to
or " Bjekjamin Morgan, No. 170, South Front street,
rrs. or t0 ROBERT ANDREWS,
nb- No. 86, South WBarves.
November 10.
if- For Charter,
.art >—a THE SHlp
"John Bulkley,
for Samuel Volaris, Majler.
veffel is built cf live oat
and cedar, of about
barrels burthen, and nady/to receive on board a
ClrS °' Jejfe & Robert Wain.
pa. 3 r \ I
. For Sale or Charter,
rt"s The fad failing brig
o Brothers,
_ Lying at Curling's Wharf,
an excellent single deck'd velftl, burthen about
1600 barrels —not twelve months old, and in
lear corl ipleat order. For terms r.pply to the mailer
" ous onboard, or to
* r on ' Joseph Anthiny tsf Co.
~ y\n\' d IW.
By John Fen no, N O, 119 Chefnut Street.
* Philip Nick I.in Go.
HATE FOR SALS,
At their Stokes on Walmu ftj'eet V. iiurf,
Havannah Sugars, white and brown - n "j
25 hhds Jamika do. - 1 5
3000 pi-ccs of broad N3nk'-*ens (m y.
Imperial Tea,in quarters and eighths of cheftt
QuirkfiWcr in tuUs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hpgdfltadi
i'encrifFe Wine in pipe® /r
Old Fort Wine in hogfc*.at. * Q
Sail a/rorted. No. I to Oi
8 cafea of Manchester Goods, coaflfting of r>irf»itie«,
Muflinets, Ginghami,Thickfetls, Oorduroy6 # &cv Q n
200 crates Queens' afforted
Nails, assorted
Black quart Bottles -
Yellow Ocre in tfiiVs
A quantity of writing S<ate. c , fiate Ink-Stands, &c. or
l©o quarter cases Gun Powder q c
Ibey have also for SALE or CH'ARTER,
n sbi > ti.r
wSSmI HAMBURG PACKET, ie.
Cvßurthen 320 tons, coppered to the
the bends, and completely fitted. of !
Thtjhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a 1
good yellH, an ! completely Jttcd. e l'i
Tfye brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days. 1
The whole of the above vcflela to be_ fcen at
Walnut street Wharf. § nov ic.
Port and Madeira VV me, tk c
Now Landing, Vai
By fhi-p Edward, from Madeira, ur.d Betfcy and a\l
Peggy* rr© l ?' Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglbead?,
For sale by lm
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFtRS FOR IAl«,
es. The Ship
a M 1 7 r>
Four thoufiml barrel* burthen,
is excellent order—ready torake
in a cargo— three years old. ' /
likewisk,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen too barrels, ready also to receive a car- -j
go—and a quantity of
" Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Jufl landed from the above vefTels at South street
wharf. eoim. Nov. I.
Five years old Madeira Wine, —-
OF the very fir It quality, in pipes, hhds. and .
quarter calks, jull landed from the Ihiji Edward,
from Madeira, and for sale by
JOHN CRAIG,
No. 11, Dock-street.
WHO HAS y
" Burthen about 1100 barrels, r
«Sk-s<» just hove down and put in com
plete order, and now ready to receive atargo. N
Also, For SALE or CHARTER,
J ° S E'P H U S,
Burthen about 1800 barrels.
nevemb*r 6>
James tff Richard bmith, 0
r | the llberiv of iuloVmioj; tHeir rrtend,
~±- public.'that they have removed. their v
(lore to Vo, 54, South FrontJlrtfl. ncxt door to Ed- n
ward Fox's Auction Room, wfcere tlKy have at j.
this time for sale, a large and general aiTortment of
European & Eajl India Goods, j
Many of which are jwft itnphrtmd in th» Clothier,
William Penn, Ac. '«•
Ofl.a?. °
, Samuel PJeafants tsf Sons, )
No. 74, South Stcand-jlreel, 1
HAVE received a fopply of Sei.t'ocable GOODS, b
which tljey are now epaoing for tale, on \
I rcafonable terrtis. f *7 ~4" c
ROSS iff SIMSON, J
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, C-ofTas, and i
a quantity of Bengal CO T1 ON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, ~)
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal J
3®q calks RIPR, end
A parcel of Ihip building RED CEDAR.
Oft 27. L.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bourdeaux Brandy
Teneriffe IVine
id Molasses j
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one bogfhead °f P# rlt
hrujbes.
N. & J. Frazer.
No. 05, Sonth Front Street.
Nov. 7. < /l^
. A! u T 1 C E.
THE partnerlhip l>etween John Instoks and
James Bacon, under the 6rm of Inftpne and
°k Bacon, is this day dilTolved by mutual consent.
All persons who ftsnd indebted to fa d firm are
ir- requested to make immediate payment ol their
to r«fpe<slive accounts, toJoHN SKvrin, onLanden
et, burger's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all persons having any demands a
s. gainst the said firm, are desired to bring in their
accounts immediately to lain! for settlement.
John Injlone,
James Bacon.
November to. cot^
Notice to Creditors.
>ak -it THEREAS Jofiah W. Oihbs and William
>cc VV Gibbs, did on the 9th day of June la*, af
d a sign to the fuhferibers, all their property for the
benefit of their creditors, this is to give notice
to all the creditors of the above firm, tha' all
their books, as well as the statement of their
concerns, are lodged with John D. Blarichard,
No. 6, South Third Street, for their infpt<stion,
and also the difehat'ge which is to be signed by
all these creditors *ho wilh to receive ths bene-
S, fit of faicl aCgnmer.t. ,
All persons indebted to the said firm, are here
lrf > hv notified to pav their refpe«9ive debts to the
said John D. Bhnchard, who is fully authorized
in tn receive and fettle all their accounts.
Ifer JOHN D- BLANCIXARD.
' JAMES VAKUXEM.
A. SUTLEK.
Nov. 13. IDwf^ti
salt $$ W
AT AUCTION. -.
For sale all o'clock, on Saturday moniiog next, -t'
in Morton's wharf, for approved iiidorfed nores
it6oday% about 3,j;c»hufhells Cadiz Salt, Irnta
on board ilie Folacre St. Domingo, in lots ut 100
buftdls; alio, 14 calks of good Sherry Wine.
Fooiinan & Co. Auctioneers.
*"V r i. 3
Sale of an elegant Country Seat
A T A u CTION.'
On Widnesoay evening next, the 29th inft. at
the Merchants' Coffie-lx.ufe,
IYILL BE SOLD,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain- '
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick Koufe and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. ftuate on the Irilh trail larc, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mije from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will A (
be nnde known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette, or at the Auclion Room
of the fubferiber. ,
The improvements upon this place, for taste and (
el. gunce, Hand unrivslled. p o|
John Connelly, Aufi'r. Hi
november 23. tS Ol
SALES POSTPONED;
O/i recount of the Weather.
On Friday the 24th inft-pricW'ely at 9 o'clock in . Ge
the morning, will Ve fold at C- Eralen's Lumber q] ;
Varolii tlie MottheraLibertijf, near the Hay Icales, ,
allth? personal propeity there remaininj, belocg- p r j
to the eflate us Caleb Emlen, deceased—eon-
Citing of a large quantity of lumber, &c.
FOO I'MAN Co. Audioneers. Ee
TO LEI I
At areafonable Rent, CI,
And may be entered on immediately, 1.-
A three-story brick Ilotfc, (,eleg3nt and almost Nc
acw) containing two pariourf, a drawing foom, A
three good chambers, &c. Ctvated on Front, near Ca
Pine Ilreet. Ai
Apply no. I io, South Front ftmet.
November 22. 3t
400,000 weight of choice Si. Do- b
mingo COFFEE,
FOR. SALE BY
JAMES YARD. R
november 12. diot
for SALE—by the Subscribers,
An elegant affortinent of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the bale. B1
WILLINGS W FRANCIS, ci
nov. 21. § Penn-ftreet. M
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases. °
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol. o&avo. p .
By William Young, Boolfellcr, g-
No. si, Second Ilreet, the corner of Chefnut Ilreet, q
(Price, in boards .87 I 1 Cents J ?V'
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eflabliftied in tho elements
of Medicine, of the late eelebrated t ]
fSXMU. BROWN, M. D. i\
With an attempt to'correct I'Bnie Important er
r»rs of tbat woi k, and cases in illuftratiori,
' ly fe!e<!led frcm the records of their praflice, st
1 the General Ilcfpital at Calcutta,
Br IVuiuu Tjtes (St Cuts. Maolej*.
To which luhjxiued, a Treatise on the .nS ion
of Mercury upon living Kodies, and its applies- f
tion for the cure of diltafes of indireifl debility
Andadiffertation qnthe fcorccs of Epidemicjud-
Pestilential diseases; in whichisalt-empfedtoprove .
by a numerous induilion «>f fa*Sls, that they nt
n ver arise from contagion, but are always proiiu
ced by certain llates, or certain viciflitudes of
the atmufpliere, by Charles Maclean, ot
Calcutta. ,
nov. 2[. f 1 ? 1 .
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114. Corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The fituaticn
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion.
Landing this day,
on board th» fehooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Master %
80 hhds. and ; T ama i C a RUM,
xi pipes ) J
FOR SALE BY
" lt George Latimer & Son.
November q.
JiJi Pubti/bed, and no-tv Selling,
By BENJAMIN DAVIES,
At his BoaK-fTORV, No 68, Hii^-Street,
nd The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
ANNUAL REGISTERforibeU NIT EI) STATES
FOR THE YEAR 1 798 :
irc Confatning complete and correvSl lifts of the Execu
tive, I cciflativc and Judiciary
:n " DI:PaHTMENTS of government,
VC And a variety of ufeful tables, nccelTary to be
a " known in every State of the Union.
Embcllijbed -with tiro handfomt Engravings,
One of which is deprive of a melancholy scene
that occurred during the American war.
f oa - l8 L .
fuft published,
And to be fold at the BcokStores of H. & P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
a, p No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
, corner of Chefnut and Second-flreets,
t -ee An accurate System of Surveying;
a IJ IN WHICH IS CQNTAINFD,
jeir x. Decimal fradlions, in a plain, coucife,
ird, and easy manner.
on, 2- The extraction' of the square root,
by 3. Plain trigonometry, i-eflangular and ob
:ne- lique.
"4. An exa<2 method to call up the contents
ere- of lands.
the 5- Field furv;y%. .
ized The wholebeinp performed vrithoat the ule
of scale and compafies, on a table ol logarithms.
). In which is given lome account of the variation
of the needle, and the causes oi its attraftion.
15y SAMUjit MOOKE.
f Aucrtiftl.
Aujuft 1
{VcfJfitß XII
NOW LANDING,
•At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from B*tavia.
About 30c tons firft quali f y Java Coffee (the
whole having been foß&ed)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniilers and bags
19 leguris of pli'Arrack
Nutmegs, Macs Cloves
FOR SAM r.r
PETER BLIGHT.
IVho tllfo offers For Sale,
Jufl landed from ship Amity, from Jamaica.
20® lihds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do- do. Rum.
novembrr 23. dfivr
FOR SALE, nr
Joseph Anthony Iff Co.
No. 5. Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ift and id
proof, landed
2S© bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quautity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigp of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira nine (J In pipes &
do. market do ( qr. ca^ks.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Qlaretincafs '
Spermaceti candles and ftram'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon it) barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in do do
Eeft Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall ftlte*
New-England t w l : »cn
A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Ruflia feather beds
Clover and Timothy feed in ."'alks
Long whale bone
No i, 2, and 3, Bailofi fail duck
A few chests firft quility Hyion tea
Carolina rice in whole aid half'tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
N .vember 8. diw. •
FOR SAL?,"
by the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftree^,!
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Cohjtjlirrg of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coflacs Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzz y do.
Humhums Charconna Dores.
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Caliceef Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hhkfi.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Banriannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romali
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perfiansof variomcolouip
Mock Pulicati
200 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings iff Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Gariges arc now open and exposed to sale ; t
that commodious (lore the north weft comer of
Market and Fourth flreet. *>ov. 10.
L AND I H G,
From on board the (hip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, fr»*m London,
60 toas of the best clean Ruflia
HEMP
66 rafksol bottled BROWN STOUT.
' F or Sale by the fubferibers, No. 21, 1 enn-fireet.
Willings Ss 5 Francis.
[ Oil. 31. d
Just arrived.
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the fubfciV
I bers, 1 No. 2t, Pcnn-flreet,
6<<2 hogfbeads,")
82 tierces (Prime Coffee
.I*3 barrels (
[" 646 bags J
Willings & Francis.
oft. 28. b
r Now Landing,
II And For Sale by the Subscribers,
e 30 hhds BRANDY
- • 62 ! i€ f, c "' X RICE
14 half do.)
7 hhds. Carolina TOBACCO
i' Philips 9 Cramond,, Cq*
novemeer 18. 3^
Landing,
From oil board the ship Edward, at Walnut*
{lr«et Wharf,
_i London particular; Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews.
, november J. eot "f
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, Sooth
IS Water-street,
u . A general assortment of China
Ware
■Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Lnteftrings
Do. d#. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. sewing Silks ,
ne Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and short Naskeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Alforted Glass Ware, in cjfes
White and brown Havanna SBgari, in boxes
P. Moiaffes, in hogsheads
>d, St. Croi* Rum and ugar, in do.
ig, London particular Madeira Wine
SKetry and Malaga Wines, in quarter caiks
j. Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chests
3 ' Logwood, &c. &c.
7 .-tu&Uw JOSEPH SIMS.
' e > _ j ; —1.
Lately Published,
,1 . In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
J by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
nt , Chefnut streets, .
A, Colleftion of Papers on the fubjufl of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
use States for a few years path
ns. Compiled by NOAH tt3Si ER> jun.
ion Containing letters from Dofiors Seaman, Smith,
on. Bucl, IV.ytor, Ksmfay, Monfon, RtyneidS, Mitth
-J!,on cont.igicn, &c. &c.
Sept. ij.X£e ©ajettc.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, NOVKteBZR »J.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Thursday, November 13.
Mr. Thomas Pinckaey, from South Carolina
(in the place of Mr. W.Smith, appo ::»■'! miniftrr
to Portugal) and Mr. Claiborne, rom Tenueffee
(a newly elected member) appeared, and took the
constitutional oath and their feats.
i'fee hour of twelve being near at hand, the
fncaker announced it, »nd * message was sent to
the senate, to inform them they were met arid
ready to receive the communications of the Preii
aent ot the United Stales, agreeably to his appoint
ment.
The members of the senate attended according
ly, and about a quarter after twelve th t PrefideDt
of the United States (after visiting the senate cham
ber) entered the house, accompanied tyhis ferre
tsry and the hea4» of departments, and af:er being
feated,rofe and delivered the following SPEECH,
wl ich fee yesterday & Gazette.]
Having concluded his speech, and delivered co
pies of it to the prelidert protem. of thef«nate,
and to the fpeakef of the house of reprentatives,
the prefldent retired, the speaker resumed his chair,
and the house being come to order, he, as usual,
read the speech from the chair. This being done,
on motion, it was referred to a committee of the
■B'-'ole house, and made the order for to-m«brow.
Ordered also to he printed.
Vir. WH.LIAMS ohfervsd it was not usual to at
tend to much on the (day the speech was
delivered ; but h,; Ih'ould wi(h that they might
take up the refelu'ion of the senate refpeaing the
appointment of chaplains.
The motion was agreed to, and the resolve of
the ftnate baving been read,
Mr. Macon cbjefted to the form ofit. Ifthey
were to agree to a resolution of this kind, he hop
ed it would he in the usual form. Ihe senate,
without their concurrence to the resolution, had
proceeded to eleil a'chaplain, which was tontrary
to former practice. They ought firft, he said, to
have known that this house would agree to have ■
chaplains, before they had proceeded to an elec
tion. He called for the reading of the resolution.
Mr. Williams did not think the variation ma
terial.
Mr. Venable wished to have the quethoa <li
vided, as ihe resolution and eleftion were tw« dis
tinct things He therefere moved to strike out
-he latter part
Mr. Dwiout Foster favvno nccemcy for [trik
iag out any part of the resolution, It might be
Wry well divided. He therefore moved that the
sense of the house might b: firA taken on the for
mer cart.
Mr Venable consented, andthefirft part was
agreed to.
Mr Willi am s then moved that the house pro
ceed to the eleSioi of a chaplain.—Agreed.
The Speaker informing the house that a previ
ous nomination wa6 neceff iry,
Mr. Williams nominated Dr. Green.
Tlie fergcant at arm was directed to collet
the liaJ!ot«, and Meftn. Grifwold and N. Smith
v ('re appointed tellers.
I"he votes being examined, Mr. Grifwold re
ported the result to be,
54 votes for 11 r G.tci
6 for Dr. Prieilly
3 for Dr. Blair
1 for General Williams
I for Mr. Uftiik.
Dr. Creen was of eourfe declared duly elected.
After reading a few private petitions, whieh
were referred to the committer of claims, she house
adjourned.
ExtraS of a letter from a gentleman in Marti
niaue, dated Augujl 26, to a merchant in
Norfofh.
"We have been in much confufion for a
few-flays past, in coulequcnce or a very large
amount in bad coin, been imported
into this colony by Ogden, Charrierand Co.
they are closely coftfin'3 in jail; at least the
latter. Ogden reGdad in New-York. A
total confifcation-of their property will take
jlace."
ExtraS of a letter from n gentleman in Mar
tinique, dated Augujl 26 to the fame,
" I am sorry to tell you that -the house of
Charrierand Co. of Martinique, is broken:
their property confifcated. —Andrew de
camped, and John in jail; owing to their
ha' ing imported alarge quantity of bad coin
fereral house* have had their property
confifcated at Martinique for having a con
cern in this nefarious bufwefs. Joes gilt,
70,0001. worth of them were imported by
Charrier and Co. alone, and all good coin
Jiad disappeared."
FRENCH NOBILITY
By Mr. Burke's ftatcment, the French
nobility, before the revolution, were so re
educed in numbers, that they did not much
exceed 20,000, at least of full grown men ;
and he adds, that as they have been very
cruelly formed into entire corps of foldiera,
it is estimated, that by the sword and distem
pers in the field, they have not loft less than
5,000 men ; and if this courfc is pursued,
it is to be supposed that the whole body of
the French nobility may be extinguilhed.
/Several hundreds have also periftied by fam
ine and various accidents. N. Y. Pap.
The terrible tribunal of the InctyisiTioN
has been furprefled in Spain, and the event
lately announced in the Madrid Gazette.
This wife mcafure may probably eacreafe
the number of Malcontents in that country.
Those who have loft the situations which
have hel4 under that tribunal, may become
the mod a&ive revolutionists. The step
from depotifm to anarchy is but a (hort one.
c \_Lond. Pa}.]
Anecdote of tie present Queen of Portugal.
The present queen of Portugal, in com
mon with her countryman, entertained a
strong predileftion sos the Ebglifh nation.
The protection they received from England
lin the last war with Spain, and the gener*
ous assistance of the Eritilh parliament at the
time of the great earthquake, were held in
grateful remembrance by every Portuguese
Previous to the queen's aecefTion to the
throne, (lie had evinced a tendency to that
religious frenzy and dcfpoVidency with which
(he r. now so heavily afili&ed ; and as soon
as fte hid podtfled herftlf of the reins of go
vernment/ to (hew her afFeiftion for thp
Engiilh nation, " flife iiTued an ordinance,
that' every Englilliman who wonld embrace
the d £lrines of the chufch -of Rome [fcould
receiv. a reward, amounting in currency to |
about four pounds, and a new fait of
cloth :s ; her suCcess more than equalled her
expectations, not a British vcfTcl entered
the Tagus but the men were one and all
converted to as good catholics as money
and clothes could make them, and as for
the crews of the packets, they received the ;
queen's bounty money (as they termed it)
five or fix times over, as they constantly
complained on every return from Falmouth, ■
of the strong assaults their relatives and
friends had made upon their newly adopted
tenets : the queen at length discovered that
the pious work (he had begun could not be
accomplidied, even if the whole riches of
the Brazils had been put in requisition, aad
the ordinance was revoked, to the great
diflatisfaftion and chagrin of the British
tars Morn. Chron.
At the trial of the Nore mutineers, one
Vankerand was sentenced to receive 8ola(h
---es ; while the sentence was reading, he
roared out—" Only 80 lashes ! I thought I
ivas to be hanged. I wi/h you would give me
them now, and let me be done with it.*'
NEW-YORK, November 22.
At a late hour last evening we received
our London advices by the way of Green
ock, which furni(h many details of informa
tion not handed te usbefure—We (hall take
them up to-morrow.
A London paper of the 27th Sept. ftatea,
that gen. La Fayette and his companions
in fuffcring are at length delivered from their
long and painful captivity. They were re
leafedupon the 27th of Augult.
The British parliament was to meet about
the middle of this month.
From the Glasgow Courier®/OSober 5, re
ceived by the Amjlerdam Packet.
Refleftions, suggested by the recent condutt
of the French government at Lille.
A crisis more awful, more important, or
more inftruftive than tbe present, is not to
be found in the annals of any nation that e
ver existed on the earth. For eight yean
past have we been contemplating events as
extraordinary as ever happened, and aftions
as monftrou? as ever disgraced the unfortu
nate nature of our species. Mock trials,
deriding justice, regicide, indiferiminate pro
fcriptiont, rivers of blood, and boasted impi
ety, have insulted intellect, and tortured
sensation. Some strong minds ( I will not
at present fay whether mistaken «r not) have
looked upon these horrors without (hrinking
in the hope of ultimate advantage to man
kind ; and, while the feeling heart has quiv
ered under the impreflion, have been bold e
nough to cry out, " It is to be endured, it
ought to be endured, for the good of the
world, for the fake of poftcrity."
But the iorcfight of others (a forefight
now juftified) led them not only to denounce
the diabolical means, but to deny the boast
ed end of meliorating the lot of man. Men
of reading and of refleftion have looked i»-
to the page of history, have compared past
with the present times, and have seen the
fame Utopian chimeras formerly giving birth
to Ctmvulfion; and revolution*, ■■fciali they
have obfe ved constantly ending in tyranny
and opprellion. Thence they have depre
cated the issue of the present chimeras in
France, and, though of different parties in
domestic politics, have set themselves to op
pose their influence with heart and hand,
with fortune and with life. These are the
real philosophers of the age ; and whether
they be ftatefmati or individuals, seamen,
soldiers, or citizens, they are the truefriends
to genuine and attainable happiness, and
their philosophy is the wisdom of ages.
If the nature of man were uncorrupt, if
he were a perfeftly virtuous and pious crea
ture, there would fce little occaiion to dis
pute the superiority of forms of government;
justice and benevolence would govern all his
aftions, and ascertain all his rights. We
know that the end of government is to crush
vice, and to cultivate virtue, whieh includes
every right of man ; but whether monar
.chy or republicanism contributes most to
this genuine end, has been a constant debate
both among the antients and the modems.
It is not my intention to take up time in a
renewal of this fubje£t,-on which I fiiall on
ly fay, that experience evinces that the feeds
of tyranny and oppreflion are at least as pro
fufely scattered in the latter as in the form-'
cr mode of government. Was there ever a
republic, however pure it set out in princi
ple, that did not Coon verge to abfolutt
power, and terminate in the despotism of
one or many rulers.
Revolutions, after blood had ceafcd to
flow, and the tumult of events to aftonilh,
are found to be little more than changes of
adminittration. When the vices of wardif
continue, the vices of peace succeed ; and
when it is too late, the people at length be
gin to perceive that the change has been
wrought chiefly for the gratification of in
triguing men, whofa education inspired them
with an ambition which their existing rank
in society did not favour. Is not the histo
ry of France itfelf, since the year 1789, an
unequivocal testimony of the jaftnefs of these
aflfertions. The firtt conftitutiou seemed to
promise the nation happiness ; but, after
the triumph of tha firft ambitious dema
gogues, what a rapid fuccefiion of tyrants
seized upon the government ! The convul
-11 on (hook the country to its foundation ;
the firmnefs of the land was loft ; the peo
ple knew not their way, but waded thro'
the quag that had been produced, from
which ifined wills-o'-the-wifp to mislead
themselves and other nations ; and (till are
they wading after these meteors.
Without renewing an investigation of the
propriety or impropriety of the war, we
feel that the burden has b:en great. In
deed it has been so much felt, that even the
firranefs of a very resolute admir.iftration
gave way to it. Twice have we feeu this
admir.iftration, agai'nit * their better judg
rhent, blive to the pfieflurc ofthe time aJ
| yififighis inajcftyto thecoudefcenfion of fend
i rag ambassadors to France. It has been said
that his miniilers were not firicerc in a de
sire of pease. They could "have but one
motive to induce sincerity, and that was the
burd;n of the war. The whole of lord
Malmeftwry's firft emliaffy is a piitnre of
the' struggles between confeientious con 5(1-
ency, attached to the lading interelts of this
; country and the melancholy deljre of ;em
porary fffpite.
But the sincerity or insincerity of the
British ministers was little to the purpose,
if there were not Xiftceritv on the fide of
Fraice. Were her rulers fineere ; The fine
at Paris, and dill more, the recent
infilts at Llfle, are decisive proofs of their
jjiliiceiity. Is there a Briton that would
have yielded; dcfpotic terms proposed
in the) French Metropolis? Is there one of us
blood dpes not boil with indignation
at what has nqw driven the ambaflador
home? Peace is not to be obtained. How
ever desirable for ns, however desirable for
the fake of humanity, it i 3 inconsistent with
the interest of the ruling fadtion at Paris,
who are intent upon eredting military des
potism and whom, therefore it behoves to
maintain the military, as they cannot other
wif* fafely defpofc of them.
Is there a man in this country whose eyes
are not now open to the designs of those who
are the present dirtdtors of French politics,
and to the motive? of their condudt ? Do
we not plainly fee the itfe they have made of
power ? and are we not aware of their dread
ofdifbanding their armies ? Yes, my country
men ! more blood is to be shed, more bur
dens are to be bome. From our position
and relative politic*, we are necessarily im
plicated in the derangements of France,
as in a street on fire, we pull down one house
voluntarily to favc the remainder, so is it
become the wisdom of the jundture to facri
fice some part of our pecuniary resources in
order to secure the reft. As we cannot ob
tainpeaceonany terms poffiWly to becompli
ed with by a great nation, in fadt on no
terms, we irt called upon by the principle, of felf
rrdtration, at -well as of honour, to produce and
to combine our means as well pecuniary as person
al, ir. order to aflert the dignity of our country,
and repel the arrogance of our enemies.
The rtitinrce* of Britaia are not to be easily ex
hau.led, is/he to bo driven irt» fubrr.iffion: the ii,
indeed, again driven td the sword, and will yet
conquer, if her sons be but unanimous. It is not
some unfucctfslul attempts of invading France that
can make us despair. Jnvafion is ever difficult ;
but the glorious and unparrelleled fuccefles of our
naVy, aud the aflual pofltion of its fleets, give us
earnest thattbe day may arrive when our foes (hall
file for peace. They flatter themfrlvea we ihall
be crushed by domellic difcentenwarifing from the
neceflary burdens by which the means ofoppofing
them are to be obtained ; t-u', happily their con
duct, their perfidious conduct, is calculated to unite
the bear's ofthe nation, to draw forth with cheer
fulnefs those very means, to difappaint her malice,
aDdto puniQilier insolence.
I The following is stated tobe the number and dif
pofitionof the French troops in the. teintoriesof
Friuli and Vcoici :
Men.
General B'rtiadvtte's division at Udna 9;ooo
General Vidor's division, polled at Oemo
-11.1, Ofops, and St. Daniel's 8,003
General Serruricr's division at Trevifo 6,000
Geniral Maflena's division at Padua lj,ooo
General Ai.k' -c.-JiiVdiSm-"" at Verona 9,000
deHeralDclmas'.iisifmiiatFulluno & BafTana 8,000
General Baraguay Hilliers* division at Ve»i»« k>,ooc
Total, 67,000
PROVIDENCE, Norember 6.
" Thehon. Ray tJteene, Esq. a Senator
from this state in the Congrefsof the United
, States, set out for the Seat of Government
on Monday last. He was escorted with mi
litary henours from the venerable feat of his
forefathers in Warwick, on his way, by that
veteran corps, under the Orders of col. Whit
marfli, the Kentish Guards, to which he
belongs, and who boast of a gen. Greene
and a gen. Varnum, heretofore of their num
ber."
NEW-BRUNSWICK, Nov. 21.
MR. BLAUTELT,
I furnifh you with the following anecdote
for your publication, as thinking it too
good to be confined ii) a small circle.
At the civic feaft lately in this town, a
gentleman observed to a citizen, that it was
a pity he had not been born in the King of
Prufiia's dominions, as his size would have
been noticed at court. Replyed, that he
then would have been a slave, and that he
had rather be thought the meanest man in
the American republic, than the ftcond in
any defpoticmonarchy on earth. The Pre
sibent of the United States nobly rejoin
ed, and I, theJirJt.
ADJUTANT GENERAL'I OFFICE.
The adjutant general having reported
the dates of brigadier general Doughty's
commiflion and brigadier general Giles's
commiflion,it appearsthey aie asearly as any
in the state, and from the convenience which
will result from their relative situations, they
are diredted to take command as brigadiers
of the detachment of militia ordered for du
ty, -and to be prepared accordingly, after
which they will receive their ordeis from
major general Frelinghuyfen, who com
mands the detachment. It is expefted that
all the returns directed by general orders,
will be immediately completed and forward
ed, that the report of the .state of the third
detachment may be made to the secretary of
war, and no excuse for omission will be re
ceived. It is with pleasure the commander
in chief received from the adjutant general
a report of the military maimer in which the
officers and dragoons performed the honor
able service, of receiving sad condudting the
President of the United States through the
state to the feat of government. Nothing
less eould be expedted from cavalry so well
disciplined j but the alacrity and adtivity
displayed on the occasion, did honor to the
fcveral troops, and claims the just tribute of
appkufe. Besides the cavalry, the diffe
rent companies of artillery and infantry, who
have also been reported by the adjutant gen-
eral Jls attending on this occasion, dtferve
and receive the approbation and thanks of
the commander in chief, for their exertions
and propriety of conduit.
By order of the commander in chief,
ANT. W. WHITE,
Adjutant General.
November 14, 1797.
HARRISBURGH, Nov. 15.
On Monday last agreeable to notice giv
en, the company of the Light Infantry,
commanded by Capt. Matthew Henry,par
aded at this place,—their co fnandcr in a
very animated address, informed them the
occasion of their meeting, when the young
gentlemen unanimously offered their services
as part of the quota of this state—to "hold
themselves in readiness to march when called
upon.
BALTIMORE, November 21.
Captain Wilson, of the brig Marcus,
writes from St. Thomas to his owner here,
that three days after lea'ving this port, his
cook, James Thompson, was taken sick and
died, and that a few days afterwards three
of his crew, Cole, Charles and James, mu
tinied and denied to do their duty. ThSy
had provided themselves piftols, and
swore together in Baltimore, to take the
vessel and carry her into some French port,
and get her condemned. They even told
the captain, they did not come out with an
intention of returning home, but that they
intended to go on board a French priva
teer at Tortola.—The mutiny continued
four hours, but forunately falling in with
the Amiable British igate, iXfr piU those
three desperadoes on board her.
He alfa writes that the French have left
off taking American vessel?.
This day arrived, ship Mount Vernon,
from Liverpool, which (he left the 12th
September, iu her came several paffenger6.—
Nothing new.
" Rotterdam, September 24.
" Mr. Gerry has at last arrived, and your
negociators are on their way to Paris. Wt
hopt they will be fuccefsful, and are not with
out hope they will.
The above is received in a letter per the
Adelaide, by a refpeftable gentleman in this
city.
Married, on Turfday evening last, Mr.
Charles Lewis, of Conne<Skicutt, to the
amiable Miss Margaret Barron, of this
city.
From the WEEKLY ADVERTISER.
READING, Nov. iSth 1797
Last-Saturday morning, Sentence of Death
was pronounced on Bt nj amis' Bails v.
Sentence p"Jfed by Judge Rush,
on Benjamin Bailey, forthe murder of
yOST FOLHABER.
YOU have had a fair and impartial Trial—
the Witneflei were examined in your presence,
you felefled your »wn Jury, and have been ably
and zealoully defended by your Council. When
we fee a man sent out of the world in the Ad
ministration of justice, undercircumftances
these, it mult be Guilt alone that bears him
down. The Evidence on your Trial, made so
strong an Impreflion, as to combine in one Sen
timent against you, the Court, the Jury, and
the Byfianders.
As you have but a fbort Time to live in this
World, and as there is no hope of Pardon from
any earthly Hand, let me urge you to seek a
Pardan from above.
It is the Consolation of the Wretched and the
Guilty, that GOD it infinitely merciful: —but it
should be remembered, that he is merciful, not
to him who continues in the Pradlice of Sin, but
to him only who repents, and utterly forfakes it.
Be aflured, the Qutftion is not, whether you
mull repent of your Sins—that is certain, sooner
or later.—But the Question is, whether it is not
better to repent in this World, where your
Uepeatance may be attended with the. happiefl
Effefts—than to repent hereafter, when it will
answer n<* other End, but to your
Torment.
Yea have been guilty of Murder in its mo}
horrid Form—deliberate, cruel, and remorse
less—You have imbrued your Hands in inno
cent Blood, forthe Sake of a little Money ; and
though the Water of the Mountain, hath wash
ed the Stain from your Garments, and your
Hands ; yet Oceans of Water can never wash a
way the Stain of Guilt from your Conscience.
Nothing but the efficacious and all cleanflng
Blood of a Saviour, can poffibty do this -
To this Blood you mult apply, as the only Re
medy for a Soul pellutod with Sin.
Be advised therefore immediately—auxioufly
and solicitously, to set about the great Duty of
Repentance, and working out your falvition
with Fearand Trembling.
You have not a Moment to lofe; —Exert
vourfelf—and it you have never prayed before,
itrive to pray now for the firft Time ; for
Prayer is the very Breath of Heaven — a nd with
out it, there is no Religion, 110 Repentance—
no Pardon on Earth.
Weep over your Sins—and if you cannot so
much as look up to offended Heaven, perhaps
you may with Eyes towards the Earth, smite
your Breast, and both feel, and express the fer
vent Wish of the Publican.
Weep (I fay) over the Blood of Folhaber;
for if you go out of the World with his Blood
on your Conscience, it will torment and wring
your Saul with unceasing Agonies and tiorror.
You die an early Vidtim to public Justice,
and aiecut off in the Morning of your Days—
But to him who is pardoned byhis God, it is
of no importance at whatever Period, or in
whatever Manner lie is cut off. Nor is any
Life fuflisiently long, though it be extended to
a thoufasd Years, which is devoted to scenes of
Guilt and Folly, and at a Close of which the
unhappy Man isf'ound unreconciled to his Gob.
To ccnelude—let me advile you to fend for
some pious Clergyman, to converse freely with
you, on your present diftrafled Condition, and
more alarming Profpefls—And who knows but
your polluted Spirit may yet become white and
pure, And hereafter ihiue in the heavealv World,
in full pofleftion of inestimable Glory and Feli
city.
The Sentence which the Law pr?fcrihes, and
this Court awards is this; —You {hall be
from hence to the Place from whence you catne
—and from thtnee to the Place of Execution,
ajid there be hanged by the Ntc'v until you aie
dei\d.
ttwfc JWHI ■iiiiiiataßWSHagaMMaMwlttaft v -.
FOREIGN INTELLIGEN CE
LONDON, September 22.
Yesterday advice was received at Lloyd's
of the capture of the rich homeward-bound
Port uguefe fleet* from the Brazils, by the
French. The cargoes are extremely valua
ble.
The following are, We understand, the
circumstances which led to lord Malmefbu
ry's quitting Lille. On the arrival there of
the two new French commissioners, 1 Treil
hard, and Bonniere, they waited on lord
Malmefbury, and delivered to him the ulti
matum of the directory, which contained all
the prepgfterous demands of the French go
vernment, which were originally made thro
M. Lctourneur.—Thefe were—that Great-
Britain should restore all the conquests she
had made during the war ; and France and
her allies be moreover indemnified to a very
larg- amount. This was to be the basis of
the negociation ; but Trielhard observed,
that there were also many other points to be
discussed after these preliminaries were a
greed on. He then asked, in a very peremp
tory tone of lord Malmefbury, whether he
was prepared to accept this baiis : to whick
his lordftiip replied—that his inftruftions
did not allow him to do so, but that if this
wa6 the ultimatum of the dire&ory, he
would transmit it to his court. Treilhard
then said, that his lordship had better go
back himfelf to procu frefh powers ; and
when he had received them, he should be
happy to meet him again.- at LiQe. Here
the matter ended ; and next day lord
Malmefbury left the place.
On his way home, the people every where
exprefled the mod fincerc regret at the ne
gociation being broken off; but the system
of terror lately revived in France, prevented
many of those which would
have been shewn, had the public opinion
been left to its own bias. ii
A declarationfrom thecourtof St. James's
to the different courts of Europe, founded
on the refufal of the new government of
France to make peace, has been drawn up,
and will very shortly be publiftied.
Yesterday a council was held at lord.
Grenville's office, at which were prefenc
♦he earl of Chatham, earl of Liverpool, earl
Spencer, duke of Portland, lord Grenville,
Mr. Pitt, and Mr. Dundas. Lord Malmef
bury attended the meetinjj, which commen
ced at twelve o'clock, and was not over tift .
three, when the result was sent to his ma
jesty at Windsor.
Mr. Windham is expe&ed in town this
day from Birmingham ; aR cxpreft havin-r
been sent him of the arrival of lord Malmef".
bury from Lisle.
An express has been also sent after the:
marquis Cornwallis, requesting his attend
ance: in town.
Government dispatches are to be sent oft'*
this day to his majesty's ministers at the;
couits of Vienna and Peterfburgh.
Yesterday a foreign courier set off for"
Portugal from the ambafTador's house io
south Audley-ftrert^
We understand from mod: refpeftable au
thority, that parliament will nofbe conven
ed till the month of November next, at
soonest ; nor will the public service require
any more money to be wanted till the be
ginning of January, besides what has beeif
voted by parliament.
Notwithtending the sudden interruption
to the iiegdciation, the public confidence
seems to be rapid'y recovering after an alarm
of only a few hours. The purchase« of reo,-
dy money (lock were yesterday very great;,
and the funds rose near one per cent, on the
general price of the preceding day.
It is very generally fufpeded that the firft
large speculation made in our funds for a
rife, was in a great measure nominal be
tween the persons concerned in it ; and that
the funds were run up only with a view of
taking advantage of the high price to felj.
1 here is 110 doubt but the speculation wiis
fefc on foot at Paris by those who were in
the secret of lord Malmefbury's difmiflal ;
and it is hardly necefTary to ajld, that a gang
of more profligate knaves is not in exig
ence.
The following tragi-comic anecdote of
what palß-d between Rewbell and Talley
rand Perigord a few days previous to tbe
late arbitrary proceedings of the diredlory,
Furnifhcs a just idea of the dignified conduS
which characterizes the present illuflrious'
sovereigns of France.
Tall, y rand Perigord havihg attended che
dire&ory in the customary d"ifcharge<>f (lis
official business, was addrefTcd by Rewbell >in
the following manner : «< Whit news, citi
zen ininifter ?"—" Thete might be very
good news, citizen dire&or, if you enter
tained but the wifli."—» What do yau
mean : I mtan some trifling facrifices
on your part to give peace to Europe."
" Vile emigrant! exclaimed Rcwbeil, (feir
ing a candlestick) you are no better dm
the others." He immediately attempt*!
to strike the ex-biHiop, but tbe latter la(4
hold of the direftor's arm, and in the; feuf}e
dropped his pert-folio. Re-.vbell took it
up, and seized it with both hands, knoekjd
the prelate down, and continued drubbing
him until he was quite exhaw(led. It wps
with difficulty that Perigord mustered no
strength enough to creep out of the direc
torial chamber ; for the chaftifenient w')s
fofevere, that he was two days after con
fined to his bed. We have reason to kno,r
that this anecdote is perfe&ly true.
The French triumvirs having laid the
plan of the late revolution on the tabic whe re
the fittings of the dire&ory were held, fit
down to play at cards, until the arrival
their two colleagus. When Bartheleniv
entered the room, they desired him to lock
at the projtdl ; 'and in the mean time tlusy
continued their party. Barthelemy having
perilled the p.ay, declared tfyat he.could net
content to it, and he was immediately ct
fired to retire, as they.aiTured him of ih s'r
determination to carry it into effect. He
was arreted the instant he left the place.
Carntit came in foot) after, anil havingread the projeft. requeded he might be al
lowed forne time before he made lip his mind
on this fubjedt. He was also deflred to
withdraw, and being arretted in the gallery
where Barthelemy was taken, he attempted
to draw his sword. Barrns, who Jiad left
the room with an intention of following
Carnot, cam: behind him, and stabbed him
with a 1 his back. His body was
immediately tnken away, ats buried in the
vaults of the Luxemburg!). The triumvirs
then fin idled their game, and began thi revo
lution .
Gaptali Cotes has been hitherto prevent
ed, hy the want of a paffpdrt, from visiting
Paris, in his new capacity as agent for the
exchange of prisoners ; and it is now be
come a matter of doubt, whether, in the pre
sent disposition of the directory, he will ven- ,
lure to trust himfelf there.
Government, we underdand, havecomt to
a determination not to permit any French
officer, of the rank of captain, to be ex
changed, until the liberation of fir Sidney
Smith (hall have been assented to.
The known tendency of the conqueror of
Italy to rhodomontade, is infinitely t;xceedtd ,
on a late occasion, by Moreau. General
Buonaparte can only find a solitary plot in a
port-folio, while the commander of the army '
of the Rhine and Moselle, can, 011 the emer
gency of the moment, find proofs by wag
gon loads.
In the Spani(h fiiip which is prize to the
Raven, is a coffin, containing the body of
a grandee, that was sent from the Havan-1
nah to be interred in Old Spsvin. The jack
tars infid upon over-hauling the old gentle
man, as they fufpedt he has got the dujl with
him.
General Thureau, the author of the his
tory of the war of La Vendee, is again em
ployed, and is gone to the army of the Sam
bre and Meufc, to serve under Hoche.
The Sans Joaqliim, Santa Cruz, Trini
dade, Modena Delz, Truenzo, Piadade,
Roa Nova, Patrouina, Alegria, Carolina,
Boa Fi, Bernardo, and St. Teraza, from the
Brazils to Oporto, with eight or ten other
ships, from the Brazils, are taken by the
French ; and also a (hip from Liverpool, for
Mir tinique, and one from for Ja
maica.
The America, Tucker, from Wifcaffet to
Liverpool,*has been taken by a French pri
vateer, and retaken by the Bellona man of
war.
HARWICH, SEPT. 20.
This morning was brought into this har
bour a French lug-fail privateer, captured
on : the Dutch coad by one of his majedy's
frigates. She is a remarkable fine vessel, on
ly fix months old, pierced for 16 guns,
which were thrown oveiboard in
chace—her complement of men 63. This
veffttl fails very fad, and during her cruize
of five months, has taken 14 Englilh (hips,
and funk two, and mod probably would not
have been captured, had it not blown a gale
of wind.
/ _____
FRANCE.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORY.
Mrjhge to the Council of Five Hundred, on tie
4th Complementary day, sth year.
Citizen Representatives.
The executive direCtory has received the
twb me.Tages which you addressed to them
yesterday, concerning the exceptions propo
fetf to the dispositions of the law o? the 19th
Frftftidor, relative to emigrants. You will
find annexed the report which has been .nvde
on this fubjedt to the direftory by the min
ider of general police, to which the diredto
ry refers you. v
L. M. Revelliere Lepeax, President.
Legarde, Secretary General.
Report to the Executive Dirt dory.
Citizen Diredtors,
The law of the 19th Frudtidor, occafiou
ed by the dangers to which the royal con
spirators have " exposed the conditution of
the republic, bears the marks of that fpint
of grandeur and of wisdom, which has di
rected the progress of the two powers in the
late circumdances ; it has heen received
with transport throughout the republic ; the
Ftench people have received it as a solemn
pledge of the loyalty of the legifhtivebody,
and thanks be to it, hrttory will uot have a
single excess with which to reproach so re
markable an epoch.
The execution of thi3 salutary law will
deliver the republic fromitsgreated enemies,
the emigrants and turbulent prieds. • Its
dispositions are fimpie and humane ;it calls
not for the blood of men who have only
signalized their return to the territory of
the republic,' but by trouble, revolt and af
faffi.lations. It expels them only .rom a
country, to the laws of which they refufe to
submit thepifelves.
The advantages of this measure are »m
---menfe, inappreciable ; its inconveniences
light and partial.
You a(k me, citizen direftors, what are
the exceptions which it will be possible to
make to the dispositions of the 15th article
of this law. You inform me, at the fame
time, that the kgifature have proposed to
except from that article the persons men
tioned in the lid of emigrants by the admi
oidration of foreign departments, and that,
the council of five hundred have sent back to
you the petitions of two soldiers who com
plain that they have been unjudly profen
bed.
To make this circumdanee an exception,
would be to dedroy the principal law.
Doubtless well founded complaints exilt ;
doubtless some citizens, public funaionanes,
a fmsll number even of the defenders of the
country, may find themselves included in
this law ; but th<: magidrates of a great na
tion, the legators, cannot facrifice to the
intered of a few citizens that of a whole na
tion. It is this day demonstrated that the
rebel emigrants and prieits ought to be ba
niflied from the French foil, or that the
constitution and the republic must be•"pol
ed to the hazards of a civil war, all i-s
In Vain will it he fa id, that to except
f»iim this law,fijch or such a class of citizens
is not to agree to dedroy it ; exp'rience h;is
(htvtn us that wken a principle is once at
tacked, intered and malevolence know how
to profit l»y it, so as to render nu'.lthe mod j
severe law.
It is with similar exceptions that but :
lately we had nearly recalled the emigrants,
as fugitives of the Lower Rhine, as fugitives j
of Toulon, and as fugitives of the colonies. ;
Citizen Diredtors, the mod constitutional j
law is that whieh drives away emigrants •
from the republic.
How easy it is to deceive on qued/ons of.
emigration, by captious reasonings, and by
apparent authentic proofs ! Have I not re
cently made known to you the frauds prac
, tiled by a great number of emigrants,
by corruption, have got their names fubdi
tuted in the place of republican volunteers,
usurping the glorious title of defenders of
their country, and claiming the merit due
to such. How many other's, if the propos
ed exception fliould be adopted, would e
quivocate as to the spot of their residence,
and would by a thonfand pretences elude the
provisions of the law. By such an excepti
on all the emigrants would remain.
Yes, Citizen Diredtors, I hesitate not to
declare to you, that the fafety of the repub
lic depends upon the drift execution of the
law of the 19th Frudtidor.
The partizans of royalty and accomplices
of the late conspirators, are far from believ
ing themselves vanquished; already you
. know, that they affaflhiate in ftveral depart- j
ments, republican functionaries; important
communications which have lately come to
' your hmd, have developed to you the vad
plan of dellrudtion and death, which, by
the nxrafurcs of tSe 18th Frudtidor, you
1 prevented the bloody execution of; and
when, to arrest so many misfortunes and
1 crimes, the French nation contented itfelf
| by removingfrom its bosom its acknowledg
ed enemies, ii is feared to exercise this
grand act of jiiftice, becauff, by doing so,
they may the intered of a few citi
zens i The mod equitable law is that which j
contains the lead of injudice. None more
than myfelf, Citizen Diredtors can bear
witness of yourcondant solicitude to diftin
guilh the innocent from the guilty.
I have to the utmod of my power sup
ported this principle of juttice, and every
day lince the passing the law of the 18th of
Frudtider last, has been marked by the con
viction of a great number of citizens, that
either error or malevolence had enrolled on
the lid of emigrants.
As to any thing else, the legislative body
may be easy, you have in your hands, and
have already made use of the means of go
vernment which will alleviate that in which
the vigour of the law might appear rigid,
and which will prevent the innocent from
being included with the guilty.
As for my part, I must confefs to you,-I
look upon the entire execution of the law,
to be as just as it is indispensable. By it,
you cut the thread of those dark plots which
have been formed againd the public tran
quility,; by it, at length, the republic
throws off, without any effort, those who
were tearing her to pieces.
Dedroy this law, and you compromise
the fafety of the conditution, even to hesi
tate to maintain it, is a public calamity.
SOTIN.
By this day's Mail.
• BOSTON, November 17.
Latejl Foreign Intelligence.
PARIS, September 24.
BUONAPARTE CENERAL Iff CHIEF.
Head-Quarter?, at PalFenano,
25th Fru<£lidor.
SOLDIERS,
We will celebrate the 1 d Vendemairc, the
epoch mod dear to the French : it will be
;; day mod celebrated in the annals of the
world.
It 's from this day that the foundation of
the Republic, the organization of a great
nation,* the call of a great nation to aftonifli
and console the world by its destinies, is
dated.
Soldiers—separated from your country
and triumphant over Europe, they were pre
paring-chains for you j you knew it—you
have spoken ; the people awaked and mark
ed out the traitors, and already they were
in irons.
You will hear, by the Proclamation of the
Executive Diredtory what the private ene
mies of the soldiery, and particularly of the
divisions of the army of Italy, were con
spiring. That preference does us honor—
the hatred of Traitors, Tyrants and Slaves
will be in hidory qur best title to glory and
immortality.
We return thanks to the courage of the F;rd
Magidrates of the Republic, to the aimies
of the Sambre and Meufe and of tht Interi
or, to the patriots, to the representatives
who have remained faithful to the dediny of
France ; —they have done by one blow what
we have been doing for the country thef» fix
years.
BUONAPARTE.
LONDON, Oclob?r 2.
Mr. Vick did not carry dispatches to
France as was so industriously reported on
Friday night j but carried papers for lord
Grenville in the usual way in which that no
ble Lord tranfadts the public bulinefs. No
proposition has been made to the French ;
and it is expedted that a date paper, or a
collection of paptrs, will speedily be made
public, giving an account of the conduCt of
the negotiation at Lisle. The principal a
gents have been daily employed in the pre
paration of this maniftdo for some time pad.
Camille Jordan is said to have been im
-1 prisoned at Middlebourg soon after his ar
■ rival in Holland. Suard, editor of the
; Nonvellc Politiques, Padoret, and Boiffy
rd'Aitgias are arrived in Switzerland.
October 3.
Ycftcrday evening a French fog ef trace
arrived at Dover, by'which a M. Ivfetiue,
a French courier, brought a dispatch from
the commiffioncrs of the directory, ad4re(Ted
to lord Mai me (bury. This difpatcli was
instantly sent off by a fpe«ial meffenjjer to
London, where it arrived at two o'clock
this morning. We cannot take upon U3
to state the nature? of this communication.
It may be merely the answer of the com
miflioners -to tl»e- Ittter written by lord
Malmefbviry, which Ins been so much the |
fubjedt of discussion ; but to which minis
ters have inid, they expefled no favorable
answer. Tliis d.iy will prove to us, whe
ther the French diredtory have relaxed from
tn<sir demands or not. It (hall be our study
to procure the bell informatian for our rea
ders on a matter so truly interesting to them.
At the fame time a Danffti-' arrived
with passengers, and by this we have
Paris journals up to Friday hit the
inft. ' They do not j contain any interesting
news. Nothing decisive has occurred at
Udine. The armies remain in the fame po
rtions, and though there appears to be
some alarm of commotion in the provinces,
it is feeble and unsupported.
No account is yet given of the new Re
public on the left bank of the Rhine, ex
cept what the Journals have received like
our elves through the German prints, and
it seems to pass over, as st common event,
unworthy of occupying a place in the pub
lic mind.
The escort of the Deputies, under sum
mary judgment of transportation arrived at
Rochfort on the 21 ft of Sept. they were em
barked the fame day at noon, and the wind
being favorable they were expedted in a few
hours to be out of fight.—Thus the execra
ble sentence of these men, without trial, is
carried into effect, and the wretched imita
tors of their tyranny in every country of the
world, will have to quote th'eir example of
injustice for the persecution of»the men
whose opinions they dread. Whether these
men were guilty or innocent i« foreign to
the queflion. It is only by trial that Jus
tice could be fatisficd. [Morn. Chrtn.~]
La Fayette was liberated Aug. 27. Pre
vious to which the Emperor asked of him a
declaration.—The items of the demand may
be conceived from the following, which was
the effedt:
DECLARATION of GEN. LA FAY
ETTE,
Dated Olmutz, Aug. 26, 1797.
The commiflion with which the marquis
de Chaftcller is intrusted, appears to relate
to three points s
1. His imperial Majesty wishes to afeer
tain the true state of our situation at Olmutz
—I am not disposed toprefer any complaint
upon the fubjedt ; the detailed circumstan
ces refpedting it may be found in the letters,
reeeived or sent back, which were tranfmit
tedby my wife to the Auftriangovernment;
and if his imperial majesty is »ot {satisfied
by reading over the orders sent in his name
from Vienna, I am willing to give the mar
quis de Chafteller any information he may
think proper to desire.
2. His majesty the Emperor and King,
wishes to be assured that, upon my release, I
(hall immediately set * out for America.—l
have frequently fignified this to have beer,
my intentioa. But, as an answer, onderthe
present circumstances, might seem to admit
the right of exadting such a condition, I do
not judge it proper to comply with this de
mand.
3. His majesty the Emperor and King,
does me the honor to fignify to me that the
principles which I profefs, being incompat
ible with the security of the Austrian gov
ernment, it is his pleasure that T (hould npt
re-enter his dominions without his fpeeial
permifiion—l have duties from which lam
not at liberty to withdraw myfelf. I am un
der obligations of duty to the United States
—above all, I am under obligations of duty
to France, and I can coutradt no engage
ment inconfiflent with those rights which
my country holds over me. With these ex
ceptions, I can assure the general marquis de
Chafteller, tKat it is my invariable resoluti
on never to set foot on any territory, fub
jedt to his majesty the King of Bohemia and
Hungary ; consequently I, the underfign
cd, engage myfelf to his majesty the Empe
ror and King, never, at any time, to enter
into any of his hereditary dominions, with
out having firft obtained his fpeeial permis
sion, provided this engagement is not under
fteod to contravene the right my country
holds over me.
(Signed) La Fayette.
The Diredtory invited General La
Fayette, to return to France, and this invi
tation has been renewed since the late revo
lution. He will no doubt accept the invi
tation, and go to Paris, to acknowledge the
obligations that he is under for the inter
ference of the Diredtory is his favour,j but
we understand he is going to Spa.or Aix-la-
Chapelle to take the waters for the recovery
of his health.
The Orrington, American Indiaman,
was attacked in the Britilh Channel, by a
French Privateer. She had means of de
fence and used them. The privateer struck
to her ; when (he was bid to sheer off, but
to be more careful forthe future of meddling
with Americans.
Mnjical Infirumenl Manufactory,
167, Arch-flreet.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
harper,
INFORMS his friends and Ac public, that he has
now ready for fate, * few of his new invented,
and puch admired fide hoard Piano Fortes, with
Pedal*,patent lwrll,if ftepshant ?.nd French harp
lop which for fallibility of touch, brilliancy of
t.inc, simplicity and durability of conftruilion, the
faperiority of which,he flatters hiinfelf, a single tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge— As they
are manufactured irndcr his immediate mfpeition,
of the v-ry be- seasoned materials, he can fell 011
rtalonable tern 4 i'orCASH. Inftrumentj repaired,
iur,ed, Sic.
N. B. feco.id hand P»"° Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
18. sawimo.
novetnler 18.
%\>% dMsette*
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY "EVENING, NOVEMBER 44.
SUBSCRIPTIONS. a ■
Amount of fubferiptions receiv
ed, for the use of the Sick
Poor of the City and Liber
ties of Philadelphia, continu
ed from the 2nd of November
1797. Dlls. Cts.
3086 91
Received since,
Ofjohn Redig*r liis fubfeription 3 o
OfMatthewClarkfon,late May
or of Philadelphia. 35 o
OfHny Cr.Vanvagenen of New
ton Long Island, his Ditto. 50 O
Of Thomas Leacock and Tho
mas Parker '3 33 '
Of Joseph Haberfhara Esq. re
mitted liim from Portsmouth
New-Hampshire, viz.
The fubfpriptionsof sun
dry inhab!tantsthcre 220 o
Ditto of a small religi
ous focietycalled In
dependents, of the
fame City. 44 25
Ditto the donation of /
the south Parish of
Portsmouth. 50 o
3H 2 S
Tatal received from the 2nd of
November to the 23d of No
vember 1797, is 3492 49
Published by order of the Committee.
SAMUEL COATES, °I ksjsoker.
HEALTH-OFFICE,
23d November, 1797.
Resolved, that the thanks of this Board
be presented to Mr. James Smith, late of
New-York, for his voluntary, difinteiefted,
and benevolent services during the late con
tagious fever, and that thefame be publilhed.
By order of the Board,
SAMUEL HODGDON,
, Chairman.
Ex'irad of a letter from'a gentleman in Hol
land, to his friend in this city, dated Sep
tember 18.
" The two envoys from the southern
and middle pans of the United States ar
rived here to day from the Hague, at which
place they had waited a fortnight for the
arrival of Mr. Gerry ; they are now on their
way to Paris, hoping to be joined by that
gentleman either on their route, or soon af
ter their arrival at that city.
" Three of diredtory, viz. Rcveilliere Le
peaux, Barras, and Rubel,by means of the
armies, (who were induced by mifreprefen
tationa to believe that the legislature were
concerned in a plot for the re-eftablilhment
of royalty in France) have seized one of the
other members of the diredtory, Barthele
my. Carnot, the remaising director would
slave been seized also, had be not made his
escape ; fifty four members of the legisla
ture have been seized also—the great gene
ral Pichegru is among these.
" In effedting this revolution the consti
tution has not been in the least regarded ;
the diredtory sure of the support of the ar
mies, have trampled it under foot, arvd yet
Have had the address to make those armies
believe, that it was the only way to pre
serve the conftitHtion.
"If you will .read the 69th article of the
French constitution, which forbids the
marching of troops within twelve leagues of
the feat of the legislature, you will fee how
that has been violated.
" After the feiznre of these men, an ac
cusation against them was sent to the rem
nant of the legislature, assembled in a haity
and unconstitutional manner, and without
being heard dr fuffercd to appear in their
own defence, were sentenced to banilhment
(where the diredtory pleafed)—by that le
gislature, the constitution has expressly for
bidden to pronounce any greater punilh
ment shan reprimand, arrest during eight
days, and confinement during three days.—
Wny not fend them before that court ex
pressly pointed out by the constitution
their trial ? it could not be doubted hut
that this court would also have been fuffi
ciently overawed to pronounce the will of
the diredtory. But why not fuffer them to
be heard before the legislature ? that pros
trate legislature which returned thanks for
its own humiliation. The fadt is, the accu
sation was supported by such flimfy teftimo
py, they were afraid the appearance of these
men would (hake it off. It does not ap
pear that testimony was produced against
any but Pichegru ; and as he is mod fear
ed, that against him is produced in full
length : it is a conversation which is said to
have passed between Pichegru and an emi
'gjant, while Pichegru was at the head of his
army. This emigrant has told it to a se
cond, who told it to a third, and this third
emigrant is said to have put it in writing
more than a year after he had heard it—
and this writing is said to have been found
by Buonaparte, (who is an inveterate ene
my of Pichegru Y) To the firft Pichegru
is made to unlofom hiinfelf in his firfft conver
sation, without having ever before'feen him,
and without his being able to advance any
thing, to prove he was not a'fpy from the
Jacobins, to whom this general is extreme
ly odious, but who merely told him that he
came from Conde. The conversation was
relative to a restoration of royalty in France,
and Pichegru for a stipulated price was to
proclaim it at the head of his army.
" Would you as a magistrate have receiv
ed this as testimony on the trial of a warrant
for a (hilling.
" But the plan is said to have failed, be
cause Pichegru wished toaffociate in the plan
the Auftruns, and Conde objedted to this,
becaufc the Auftrians by this means wo ild
have a (hare of the honor of effecting the
counter-rcvahlticn. Would Conde have re
jedted the .plan on this account becaufc these
very Aulri: l ;.; with wLpmhc Im<'i a<L.ei'.; '4
liimfeil, and vvhym hi; had.rpu.rnt *.'» ■
tli.'s very piijqjfele wets- to ft are- the /&rvY.f
cnflayjqg a ntfmeruua people ? la my opJsu*
on he would not.
But had PieKegru been ucliroits
ing a counter-revolution would ha h:.ve i\-
ligntd his command in an army where liti
was adored and where he could do more to*
wards efFe&ing the object than any where
and retire so poor as to be obliged to
fell h;s horfesfrom hisinability tokeep them ?
I think he nvould noti"
Extraft of a letter from a gentleman of tli"»
city, dated at Paris, 28— 2g.
" As for news I have none bnt what you
kn&w, 1 suppose—the 18th Fruftidor has
been heard of, no doubt. The CommifTion
ers, MefTrs. Pinekney and Marihall, arrived
here last night—Mr. Gerry is expefted to
day. We cannot fay, what may bt- the event
bat expect they will be ffvorsbty received*
and hope may may be fureefsful.
" Sept. 29. I have not leamt any thing
worthy your notice fiwee yeilerday."
MA'RRIED—Lad evening, Mr. James-'
Paul, of house of Wat foil and Paul, mer
chants of this city, to Miss Elizabeth
Hodman, of Burlington.
The British Parliament is prorogued ta
November 2.
Sir Benjariiin Hammett, knight and aU
dermari is clefttd Lord of London,
for the ensuing year.
" An Engljhnan" and " Mcdicus" are
received—they shall appear as foou as pof
lible.
■ Ilii .i -_-jnfaiu»
GAZETTE MARINE LISTV
PORT OF PPIILADELPHIA.
From the journal of fat flip Concord, Cap
lain Tbompfon, arrived on Sunday from Bala
via, tut have extraSed the following further
information, which nb doubt will be acceptalli
to many of our friends.
White Capt. Tbompfon lay at Bat a via, tht
following vejfels arrived from th Unt'.'d States:
June 17. Snow Panther, iVimpnry, 80j20n6
months, 12 days. v
Sune 30. Bark Eliza, Hodge, Salem, 6 moi
16 days.
3d. Brig Olive Branch, Lambert, Salem, 6
ma. Ship Minerva, Loring, 80/lon, 7 months
sth. Ship Four Sijlers, Wrey, Bojlqn, 7
months.
Sailed for the United States
Ith. Ship Eliza, Hutchings, frrr Boflon.
Brig Star, Briclmore, ditto-
Snow John and Joseph, Clark, with a car•
go of arrack, for Tranquebar.
Bth. Ship John Jay, Hafwell, Boflon.
11th. Governor Bowdoin, Olive, do.
29th. Saow Panther, IVhimpney, intending
to touch at the Isle of France.
Aug.ljl, Brig Olive Branch, Lambert, Ben'
cqolen ; bark Eliza, Hodges, Salem.
Capt. Maitland in the fbip Grace, of New-
York touched at Batavia, to 26th July, and
proceeded on to CaMon.
Captain Thompson, left at Batavia, fbip
Four Si/lers, Wrey, Minerva, Loring, of Bos
ton, to fail for home soon after him. -
Tht\Concordfailedfrom our capes in Febru
ary lafl, and performed her voyage in 9 months
and Jive days. ■ j--
A'iw-2'ork, Nov. 23.
HRB.IVSP
.Brig Chatham, Stan wood, Jamaica 27
Barque Eliza, Africa
Schr. Ariel, Lowry, Cayenne 32
For Amsterdam,
x The Ship
FAR M E R,
J OHN M'Collom, Master.;
WILL fail, in a few days, the
part of her cargo being
ready. For freight ol fifty tons of Coffee, or paf
fape, app,.y to the matter on board, at Walnut
ftiejt wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who i« Landing, out of the said Ship, from Boar
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, )
Sauterne, £ Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
novembt»i4. $
os* St. Andrews' Society.
TflE Members of St. Andrews' Society, will
pleas* to take notice, that as their Anfflver
fary happens this year rn a Fast Day, to be observ
ed by an order of. the Synod of Philadelphia, to
which community many of tho members belong ;
it is therefore judged proper to deftr the Celebra
tion thereof, until Friday, the firlt of December,
at O'Ellers' Hotel.
The members are requested to apply for tickets
ol admiflion to any of the afliftants, viz. MefTrs.
Thoinis Leiper, Gavin Hamilton, jun. James Hen
derfoti, Pobert Henderfon, William H.Tod/Efq.
orjDr. Andrew Spence.
The officers ar« delired to attend at one o'clock ;
dinner to be on the table at three.
By order of the Board,
RICHARD LaKE, Secretary,
novembers*. dtlD
Thomas Randall,
Puhlic in general, informs them that he has opened
aiiQlfice, at his house, No. 88, Spruce street, for
the purpole of tranfa&ing bufmefs in the line of
Co mm ifi3 and Agei-cy, culle£ing rents and out-
Handing claim* in nfiy part of the United Stares
Ho flatters himfeif, that from his long residence in
this country and a general knowledge ol it, his fcr
ckes v. ili be iound \/ormy the no. ice of those who
may please to confide to him the management of
any ol their concerns.
Isi- Is. Security given where required,
nth mo 24 3tawtf
The Commifiioners.
For alleviating the diltrefs of the Citizent of
' Philadelphia, have removed their o:Kce to ill?
1 Old Court House, Higli Street.
| EDWARD GARRIGUES, S<c tjry.
| 13th mo. iS. • 1 ,v.Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILI. commence drawing Monday, the 2,oth
inR. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, ;,t
Seven Dollars, at VM. BLACKBURN'.-. Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets iu the Sc'.iuylkill Eridge Lottery, at In
Do'.lan, where check books are kept lor register
ing an ! examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and inforina
ticn where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorifad by law if! any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufmefj of a Broktr, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
Uifcounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Iloufes, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
ntrvcmlcr 15. 5
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swtdllh barque Guflavus Adolphuj,from
Marseilles, confuting cf the following articles,
is difchsrgiiig at Mr. Latimer's wharf, aud for
sale by the fuhfeeibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, $ & 4th proof
Claret, in hojfheads
Ditto, hi cases
Froitigniac Wine, in cases as 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in of 6
and 11 bottles
Capers
Oiives
Almonds
Dty Verdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silky of 13, 3c and 32 inches
T.ifTeties
Long and fbort white Kid G+oves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in Imitation of Madraft
Artificial Flowers and ©irUnds
Oftricli Feathers
l'.ibbors
Perfumery
Scented Ifcir-Powder and Pomatsm
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
IiENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf
School Books and Stationary.
W. Y OU N G,
No. Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftrect,
HAS now for sale, a very larg* assort
ment of Englijb, French, Latin and Creek
SCHOOL, BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout thd United States.
LATELY rUBLISHED,'
Sheridan's DUlionury, the frith edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dola.
Ditto, large Ii mo price 1 dol 75 «ts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All fores of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's itoards, Paftehoards,
flieathing and blotting Papers ; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other arficles, ef
the bed quality, used in t!*c counting house, or
public office.
£*■ Catalogues of a mifcellancous colledien of
BOOKS, with tfee price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. O&. 24. —3aw6>v
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hogsheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
jo Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port Wine-
OA. 17. ' -"tftf
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any othtr th
the City—
OF rjRIOUS SIZES,
From Bby by 1
By the finale 3ox or QuafiiUy, may be had at tljt
.. -store of the Subscribers, coinei y< Arch and From-
Ureet,
James C.tsf Samuel W. Fi/her.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
Thomas Herman IiKUFFER,
North Fifth street, corner of North alley, No.
HAS TOR SALE*
EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine in cases and
boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in calks
Ticklenburgs >
Rufna Sail CIoUw
Ravens Dnck
Bag Linen
Hessians
Diaper and Table Cloth .
Empty bag 3
Common German Clofh
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean fTemp
Clover .Seed
Italian Soap, in finaH boxes, for family us«
* Window Glass Au g- *9- —
For sale or to be let on gronnd
rent,
A-ualuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE cm the north-eiftcorner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are'at
present two l'mall two story brick and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fittiate on
"VVater-flreet, between Mulberry aud SafTafras
streets* containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninely-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the conveniance of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour failor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&'vtf
This Day is Fubliihed,
BY MefT. Uobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
Other Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and iw«nty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on IVuve paper y and Htt*
prefect,
By John Thoinpfon, \
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Conrtitutions
Of the several States with ench other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting In Tables,
the prominent features of caeli Constitution, and
classing together tht-ir most imp'-irtant pWivifions, ■
under the l'everal heads bf administration ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Ctirolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States,
Dedicated to tho People of the United States. ;
N. B. A few Copi:s printid on an inferior pa- I
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar. I
February 6 mwf 1
French Circulating Ld >'orj. -
JOSEPH E. iff. M Ds Lh ORAKGE,
, No. IT'* Walnut •street,
TNFORMS thc(« who wiOi to recur to th? on b'
Jl rnnns of becoming. ptrfeil in the Hrench Lan«
guage, that he has just opened his Library j con
fiding of upwards of 115 c volumes, thobeit cal
culated to afford either ufefu'i inltrusaon, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue *
of the Library, may be seen at eveVjr book teller's j
in town. I
n. e. All 'ranflations from and into the French, '
English and Spanish Languages, executed with ac
curacy apd dispatch. coim hod tc. I
LAW BOOKb, ;
Latest London and Dublin Editions. <
li. Is? P. RICE, Booksellers %
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street, 1
HAVE just received by the Hte arrivals from
London and Dublin, their fprir.g importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latcft and mod 1
approved 1 aw Books, whlcVL added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the ir.oft cxteufive coll<j£ljon ev- '
er offered for fa'.e in this country. They thet csfore 1
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifli ;
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very ,
1 lowest prices. The following are among the latest
publications. ]
I Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 Vo's. \
{ Peake's Cases at Nili Prius ; Ridgeway's Report*
j in the time of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer's Pro&ers
j Pra&icc in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's ,
I Trcatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
| the Court of sting.V Bench in Personal Actions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruile
jo« Uses ; modern Reports, I a vols. London edi
; tion.
H. and P. Ric* oatpeA to receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
, Dumford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil
j bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, anda number of
„ new publications.
June 16.
The Hi story of Penniylvania,
, By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be publiflied,
wkh all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubfcription6 will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubrcribert.
July 18. lawif
THIS DAY WAS' PUBLISHED, ~
And for Ole by 7HOMJS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confuting of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
theinftru&ion and amulcment of YOUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes handforOely printedand bound
Up in two volume*, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces we
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally esteemed one of the molt valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
persons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to (hoot,
To pour th« frefh ihftruAion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The gsntrous purpofi in the glowing breafl."
Thomson.
August 14. mwf4w
THIS D AY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Secofid street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between feveswl Young Ladies,on improving and In
teresting fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame de Camion
with alterations ajid improvements,
Printed on Jine paper, andneatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Refinances, painting
tale® «f extraordinary diftrwfs, or of defperafce or
artful viHatny, which " harrow up the foul/* and
which it would be for the Honor nf young iadrcs to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of rial lif* y die proper, becaufs
elegant and natural dignity and importance of th& Female
Aarafter is exhibited in an interc fling point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel*
lence.
The publiftier w%s fomuch pleafedwrth the peru
sal, that he was persuaded he should do a
forVicc to ths community by fending it into circu
lation. A»guft 24 —mw4w
Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellu?n
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above ait may be had ai
, -'he Office of the Sazctte of the United States, Na.
jl9, Ohefiiut-fl-reet. July 19.
Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carlijle,
Sbtppenjburg and Sunbur'y
STAGES.
public are requested to take notice, that
the partnership which has for fometim< sub
sisted 'between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
WilHam Geer, is now diiT»lved : but, not as M.
Slough infinttstesto the public without just caufc ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fuh
je<ft from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December lirfl. a r.cital of which is not now deem
ed necelfary. Any gentleman who wiihes to be
more circumftautially informed of the merits of
this bufmefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the pcrttfal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe<slly jnftifiable hi attaching hira
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pldal'ed to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunflioo with
MefTrs. Rcily, Weed and Witmer, 13 determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and difpatchthat a zeal to oblige the pub- ,
liccanpoffibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided f
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
those wnu .vifh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Msrjtst Stfret, Philadelphia, on every Monchy
and Fridjy, to Lancaster, narrifburg,
Carlisle ai»d Shippcnlburg. The fare as hitherto
cftablilhed.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
a Stage will {tart every Wednesday from the htrufe
of Samuel Elder, m Hai-rifbirg, arrive at Sun
bar;-in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thcoce and arrive at Harrilburg
every Saturday, ,so that passengers deflined for
J.ancafter or Philadelphia, may proceed ou Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
j* Lancaller. Jan. 27, 1 797-
N. B Tiii* Line at Stages flartc from thE
house of William Ferrse, in' Lancaster, on every
TneHay au'd' Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the wcltward; and frofti the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in • IJarnlburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in r.hippenlburg, and returns
from thence on every ThuiToay: pcrforr.i;ng the
fame routine daily ai in its tour worn I hilaclsl
phia. . n ™f :
7he printer* m the United Statt'ytre
to insert the following Vbfemai* is in tbttr
p ip.'rt, by 'ivbich fst pa'Ais will be fervid,
cis w./l m their obrdifUt f'ri'i-tt.
B. LINCOLN, Snpehnte»4i>?t °f
IJ-j '.'t-th'tfes. State-Os Mnjfarhij'etts.
BY order of the United Su'es, a Light H iufe
has been erfcied at the Clay Ponds, 011 Cape
; the lamps in which are to be lighted on
tJie 15th infl. The light heufe ii erected 011,
land elevated about 150 feet, which with the e
levation of thel.antern makes the wboJeheighth
?3o seas above high water mirk, lnorderthat
this Light may be distinguished from the 80/ ten
and other Lights on ourcoaA, an Eciipfer is e
reited, which will revolve around the Limps
once in So seconds so that the light will be near
ly excludjj from the eVe of the approaching
mariner about thirty fecorjds, in one revoluti
on of tbe eclipftr. To render the bensvolcnt
designs of Corigrefs as extend vcly lrftful as pof
fihlet the Marine Society In Ballon,)))' a Urge
Cotamiude'fWfiti'fheir body, whose views have!
been ieeonded by others, have taken fuoh <ii.- j
tancM and beariftgs as thev thought neceiTary j
which obfervationj giving light aad fjfety are
added for the benefit of all interefted —and are
as follows
Vellels outward b.-und, from Boflon
house, and would with to fall in with Cape-Cod
the course is E. S. E. distance 15 leagues, thence
3 leagues to the Light house. When .up with
the Light-house and it bears S W a leagues dis
tance, you then fleer S S E which will carry
yot, out of the foutli channel.
Veflels inward bound, and fall in with the
back of Cape-Cod, bring the Light to bear SW
a leagues distance, then you may steer WNW
for Bolton Light-Uoufe.
II you you would wish to go into Cape Cod
harbor, you ipay keep rhe (h'jre aboard about
a mile diflant, whe-e you will have 10 fathoms
water. There is a bar lies oil" the back of the
Cape, about half a mile from the fhor».
When up with Kace-point. which is very
bold, and about three leagues te theweftward of
the Light-house, aad maybe known by a num
ber of fifh houses on it, from 1 1,03 miles to
the southward of kace-point, is what is called
Herring Cove, where you miy have good an
choring half a mile from the shore, the wind
from E to N N E in 4 or even 3 fathum water.
If bound into Cape Cod harbor, your course
fr«in Kace-point to Wood end, is S S E 6 miles
distance, bring the light to bear E by N and
run for it about two miles, you will then be
clear ct \)~ood end—then you must steer N E
until the light bears E by S—then run N W
f.r the harbor, until you have from 4 to 3 i-z
fathom* water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Lfght then will bear Eby S i-jS j or
6 niilesdiflante.
In running from the Race point to Wood
End—after you pass the Black Land or Hum
mucks, you will come up with a low faody
beach, which forms the harbor ; extending be
tween 2 and i niiie* to Wood-end, which is
diflicult to be diftingwfhed in the night—lt is
very bold—you have 15 fathom water
within half a, mile of the shore.
In beating into Cape-Cod harbor, you must
keep the eaHcrn shore aboard, until ysu get in
to j fathom water. Stand no farther to the
weflwardthan to bring the light te hear E by S
as there isl long spit of sand runs off from
western shore, which being very bold, you will
have 11 fathom water within 2 llonee throw of
(hore.
1h cale it blows so hard that you cannot beat
in the harbor, you will have good anchoring
without, from ioto 15 fathom water.
VefiVls in Boston bay and would wilh to put
ifway for Cape Cod harbor, must endeavor to
fall in with the Race. If in the night, and you
cannot fee the land, you must bring the Light
to bear E by N and run for it until you have
foundings in 14 or 15 fathom water, then steer
north east until th«*Kght bears E by S then run
to N~W sos the harbor. .
At full and change, it ii high water off Race
Point at 100 cfork and 4} minutes. Vtflels in
leaving Cape Cod bound to Boston, should cal
culate the tide, as the flood lets flrong to the
fout'i weft.
JOHNFOSTEH WILLIAMS, ~\Committe
NATHANIEL GOODWIN, ( from the
JOHN CRUFT, • Marine
JOHN lIILLS. ' 3 Society
THOMAS BARNARD, A branch Pilot
for the port of Boston
SOLOMON COOK, > Hefidenee at Pro-
ELIJAH NICKERSON, ) vlncetonCapeCod
At a Meeting of the Marine Society, held at
Concert Hall, on Tuesday 7th |Nov 1797 —the
above Report of its Committee was read and
approved and ordered to be publilhed.
By order of ibe Society,
THOMAS DENNIE, Prejident.
WILLIAM PURNSSS, Sec'ry,
City of Walhington.
SCHEME
,0f the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificenMlweifing-houfe ao,ooodollars,
4 cash 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & caffe >5,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 ,/k calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calk 5,600 10,000
1 cash prize of . 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
t® do. 1,000 - - to,ooc
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. mo - , - 10,000
ano da. 50 10,000
400 do. 15 - - 10,000
1,000 do. ao - ao,ooo
15,00s do. 10 . - 158,000
Prizes.
33,aSi Blatjks.
150,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00s-
N. B. Tofsvaur may take a quan
tity of Tickets,theprize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecinjen of
the private buildings to be crcfled in the City of
Walhington-*—Two beautiful designs sre already
fele&etKor the entire ironts on two of the public
squares; f«jm these drawings it is proposed toereA
two centreand r our corner buildings,as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convoy them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of fiv.e per cent, will,
be made to defray the necessary expends of print
ing, Stc. and tluA furphj* will be made a part of
the sand intended for the National Univerli'ty, to
be creeled within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held tiy the Prefidcnt and two Direct
ors of thp Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of thelottery.
| SAMUEL BLODOET.
Tickets may be had at the Bajik oi Colism-
I Ilia ; of James Well & Co. Baltimore; of Fcter
I Gilma:-., Boston : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
' and of Rickaid Welk, Cooper's Ferry. mvVf
V; " j ■ .
A Negro Pvlan.
■ f 3
$ AX.si, the unexpired me (four y ears) <
JL of a stout, healthy, ?£Uvc cgro Man. He t
is by tnl:'e a Cooper, was brought up when a boy 1
to the farming bufincfs, is a good ploughman, uri- 1
derftandsthe care arid management of horses, and 1
is a good driver He has lately been employed in J
a new house asid paints well—he is good
tempered, and believed to be very honed, fold part
ly for want of employ, but more for being addi-ifc
ed to liquor—For terms apply to No. 12, Dock
street, near Spruce ficeet.
Nov. 6. tf
The Philadelphia, Jl'fton, and 7 uckertun
MAIL STAG E.
rHE proprietors beg leave to inform the public, that
tbey hav\t efiablijhed a Stage betw*-en Philadelphia,
Atjion, Batfio, Hampton, Speedwell, and Mfcrlba P« r
nace, IVading River flitting mill, and the tow/i of 'Xvch
erton, in Netv-ferfey, to go once a week, and areprovi
dt 4 with good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a cart
ful driver, for the conveyance of the nail pajjengers, and
goods. The Stage will fart every Tbur flay, at IO
o* clock, A. M. from Mr. Dxniel Coopers Ferry, and
lodge that night at Joel Bodiae'V, at Longa coming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. At. arrive at Cileb E
vans's, inkeeper, in Tuck eft on, dif ant from the city 54
milet% (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Fajl frfouftng
Plains 7 miles J where arc good accommodath is for tra
vellers, and where are commodious and fafe pajfagi boats
provided to convey pajjergers to Capt. William War
rington s house, on 'Tucker s Iflar.d, adjoinining the At-
I antic, where are good accommcaations, and a convenient
place to ha the ; the fportfmjn who wijbes tf,regale binfelf
with fowling and fjbing, may at this place be higbiy'gra
tifed, there being at almtjl every feafsn of the year fowl
andffh in abundance. —-The Stage on its return, Jiarts
from the afoxefaid C, Evans's in Tuckerton, every Tuef
(Lzy. at 6 o'clock, A. M. breakfafls at John Bodine's, at
Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at I o'clock, P. AT. on IVednefday, arrive at the
aforefaiJ Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed thai no route of
an equal dif an a if ill be less expenftve, or furniJß'thc tra
veller with a greater variety of amifemc'it, ds he will
not only have a p leaf ant fail to the atlantic from Tuiler
tm, but have the curiofty of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are own'rs, or favors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are solicited to encourage and support this flzge (by wh ch
they can be so iveli accommodated J the continuance of which
will much depend en their aid. The rates of psjfengers i
and baggage are as follows : For a pojfenger from the j
aforefaid Daniel Qooper s Ferry to Tucker ton, including (
14 of baggage, Two B:liars/, for way faffengers j
per mile, Four Cents— baggage equal to apaf j
fencer. Pof age of letter*, nettfpapers, IfJ'c. will be !
agreeably to lat v.
N, B. The mail ciojfesfrom the Old Ferry.
THOMAS IVARDLE lif Co.
Tuckerton, Sept. 2s. Zawf
The Norfolk-Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tut/Jay, tburfday. and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the irorning ; arrives atl'.o
-ver the firft day, at Rnowhiil the fecopd day, at j
Northampton Court House the third day, and ou j
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find j
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ft try,
s-TCry Tuefdiy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
; .Arts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
V. luefday and Friday; puts up at Snow
i Hill the. night, at Dover the 2d night,and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
- didan«r on this route, between Philadelphia
an rfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
betv 1 ofe places
Too ::! hcannot befaid in favor of the road,
which it: ft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
pafienger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he evfr travelled fn a stage for the fame
difta:ufe, so good aruad in America.
Am;i:!t if. drm. entf.
Erlkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & 00.
No. 40 Squ'.h Second street,
[Price 3if CenKj
A Viczu of the Causes and Corfequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May ij $
"stalTe trials.
Sold b W.Young, Bookfellcr, No. South S«-
cond-llrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
th£ impeachment, trial,and acquit-
V>4 al of Francis Hopkinfan, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicliolfon, Comptroller Gen
eral —In one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in
dollars.
W. You no has for sale % a general aflTortmentof
Book®. Alio, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well aflorted, and entitled 10 the drawback if
axpoited. July 7 —*
For Sale,
That <wt!llnown place, called VANDtSRni'$
FtRIV,
ON Kefhaminy creak> >8 miles from Phila
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 ptrche?. Upon the
premifeo are a larg« two itcry flone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story flone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threfeinp
floor, and i'omo out buildings—also a well c!
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation. fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Mefharo
iny td its jundlion wiih the Delaware, and thence
acrofa to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of one halfthe toll received from t}ie bridge.
For term 3 apply to the Sahfcribtr,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Nty 44. slawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpedl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal, encouragement
(he has received during four. years refidenae in
Philadelphia j and aflures her friends anil the
public, so far from intending to decline her
ichool, flie has made a fuperior-arrangenmnt £or
the more convenient .accommodation of her
fcho'ars. —Every branch of ufefiif and pclitc
educatien is particularly attended to try Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpedl i ve profriTions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
Jjifle ?th, 1797.
Thefituatinn is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
'JuJI Publijhed,
And to be had of MeflTri. Dotfon, Campbell,Rice,
CVry, und the other pricipal Bookfeliers in the
city .price one dollar, twinty-five cents,ir boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m.
June ao. *6t
Philadelphia > C\;', 13.
THF. subscribers inform their friends and cu-ilo
mers in town and country, thavtheir stores arc now
open in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from the present appearance ©f the prevailing
difordcr have reason: to hope, their friends may
(hortly cqme to the city with perfect fafity. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received frefti
supplies of GOOUo.
Robert Smith iff Co. P. IV. Gallaudet <ff Co.
John Davis iff dt. Sitgreaves iff French,
Nei/l iff Smith, George Dob/on,
Wiliberger or. d Smithy Thomas Ryerfon 9
Alex ±j;!jland and Co. T. R. Hardenba/g.
Jucob I perry and Co. John Smithaild Co'
Owen & Jona.Jonts, Thomas Orr,
Keppele & Zantzinger, William Barker iff Co.
Adam Zaxtz:nger, Thomas Armat iff Sqti.
John Fries, J. Miller y jun. and Co,
Mtr-jamin Iffy. Jalnfin.
Q<fl. 14 ~
POYNTIiLL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
IVhe-re he bis fur Sale,
AVERY extensive (lock, of every colour, and
of the mofl approved patterns, fu it able for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
der* to suit.
—ALSO—
A handsome assortment of the mod fafhiona&le
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very best p'ain Green and plain Blue,
WithPannel P. pers and a rich variety of Borders*
Wove'i her t. eo6t
Will be Landed,
Fiom on board the fliip A&ive, Capt.ELAiß,from
Kambuigh,
20 bales white Rullia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ftrget, No. 34.
June 26. f
Imported inthefliip Manchester,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
Fr,-«n Bourdeaux, anil for sale by the fubferiber,
No. ji Walnut Steel.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cases I Entitled to
Medoc wine,, in do. J Drawback.
Snuterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatroyd.
WHO HAS TOR SALE.
; Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
; Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4jOOO buflifls Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf-
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private fait)
ON Friday, the firll of December next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Co
ffee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thou (and Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
, now or hte in the County of Washington, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and on the waters of
f Fvefh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
, Thcfe Lands are fertile and well timbered, and were
patenteed early in 1787, except 3700 acres or thcrea
bouts, which were patented in 1792. One fourth
of the purchase money te be paid at the time of.fale,
| for thercfidue a credit of one, tw» and three months,
1 will be given, on interest and good security.
■ Oftober 6. 3*wtS
c To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale) *
' Frida f*. lhc rll day December, at fix
s o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant*' Coffee
' House, in Philadelphia, Twentv Six Thousand Se.
» van Hundred and Eighty acres in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Su'quehanna, now, or late,
in the townftiipg! of Hamdw and Warren, and cour>»
ty of Montgomery. One fourth of the p.rchafe
money it to he jJaul at the time of sale ; for the re
sidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, on interest and gooa-iecui ity.
Oftoflc 'x 3awtS
Peale's Museum.
r I "HIS valuable repository of the works of }7a-
JL turc, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underflandtng, is ope ned daily, ss
usual. It stands in an airy and healthy situation,
and free from the epidemic that at present afßiiU
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatest fafety.
As an Aivufement, the study of Nature is the
mod ratioaal and pleating : as a Science, the moll
sublime and inftru&ive. It elevates the mind and
expands tke heart. They
* " IVbsm Nature's ivorls can charm, •with God bhnfclf
" Hold converse.**
' Many interesting additions have lately been
* made to this Museum : and the feathered tribe,.
r containing a variety of the moll rare and beautiful
' fubjeds, is now very advantageously arranged.
" Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (forue of them
casts from nature) are here dressed in their proper
habits,and placed in attitudes chara&cridic of tkoir
refpedive nations. Here may be seen the North-
American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring, Chinese, and the Chinofe Gentlc
s man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadalc—
with forae Natives of the South Sea lllands. The
* immense variety and interefling diversity which
> this Museum offers to the view, may be seen Utt
- oannotbe described with full effedt.
vpP Price only l-4th of a dollar.
Seyt. 28. I^w
i Davis's Law Bock Store,
1 No. 319, High-Street.
; GEORGE DAVIS,
» OEING busied sos fomc time past in prepara
-13 tions for removing into his present house, has
been under theneceffityof poftp< mnguntil thfsday
informiog the gentlemen oftlie Ear generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law Uooks is now arranged and rcaUy for iafe, on
termsthat he trults will »ntitl?him to tholiV.t pre
freence he has experienced fcr icveral years pai't.
Catalogues, combining the mo!t variedeallec
t?on ever imported i/ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
[ June a?. paw
Bcftcn Glais Manufa&cry.
r "
r rHE citiier.s of the United States are hereby
r i informed, that the nianufaflure of Window
: G ass is now commented at the Glass House in Bos
. ton.
r It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of theßofton Ghfs, as it" i« so well known
throughout the United States to be in every reipefl;
gre.'.tly superior to any ever importr»!-fron; Europe.
e It will be cut to any size commonly ulul ; and
t may be constantly had by applying to Cukitu F.
Kdpfer. at the Glass House.
Orders from the rfiftsr.t States to be addrefled to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Courr-ftreet, Befton.
Boston, Sept ;,o, 1797 Q 4—awvfw
* Mfjrt, 'Timothy and Ma/on, ClarUfim j MrJTr,.
c Ih.hc and BcyUn, Halifax, A'. C. Mrfr,. W,HcH
•' mdO'CtnMr, N«rf4k ■ Mr. SIU, frier, ;
2. l>lcljri. rUnit and Etr,-vu, Ballinerr : Mr. Uo'lir
Xtvr-Ttri I ■mJ'Mjjjlt. /Jim'!ld W Gen/lrirr, IJart
ford; £lr. Stjfffaur. Sava»m:l.i rrt rrjxtfrJ to infat
the abrrve oner a lotti 6 u iih, 7U fCtHuitj tulc'n -
■u'trd.-d to tl c Editor.