of the States, Philadelphia D
Number 1473. J
For Sale or Charter,
• - THE SHIP
WARREN,
Benjamin Church, Master.
* ?vA -5> "OF about iBo toM barthcn. En*
quire of
feffe y Robert Wain-
May 16 $
For Freight or Charter,
To any part of Europe,
The Swctft/h Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl si. Ehsman,
ABOUT 350 tons bnithen, in this port ; and
also the Danish Ship FREDERICK TULIUS
KAUS, of 450 tons, now lying in Hampton Roads.
Apply to JOHN VAUGHAN.
May 26. tuthf6t
For Hamburgh,
THK SH,P
ERI A L ,
JohnTarris, matter.
A GREAT part of her caigo is engaged, and
Are will fail in ten days. For freight or pal
laze apply to capt. Tarris, at Williogs & Francis
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 15 §
For London,
fjll| WILLIAM PENN,
James Josi/tH, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient fpced. For
freight or puffage apply to
fefje & Robert Wain.
The owners of Goods in the ship William
Tenn, are requested tcr fend thcif permits on board
as feon as poilibla.
May 19 §
For Sale,
The cargo tf the brig Enterprise, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
CONSITING OP
524 hhds. of Claret 1 « j
at; cases of ditto -g 3
100 cases of Sweet Oil r" /5 "2
no pipes London proof \ BRANDY . S |
10 pipes of Holland proof } J" '
Apply to
Wharton £3° Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
fift» burthen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be roady to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 24 2
Loft—A Gold Bracelet,
Marked S. H. with a double Chain. Any
person who may have found it, and will return
it at No. 47, Penn-ftreet, will be handsomely
rewarded.
Mav 17. d'f
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from business, invites all
who have any note, bill, bond or acceptance
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and those
who wish td anticipate may receive the money
It a reafooabte discount.
JAMES SWAN.
May **. daw.
Dorchester, near Bolton, 16th May 1797,
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further afielTment of nine dol
lars is levied on each (hare, payable as follows,
Tit.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the ift of July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. 53, North Fourth-street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their neglecflisg to pay the
fame as above direAed, the several forfeitures
will be exaAed.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treifarer.
May ay- . d 3Qt
To Let,
4nd pojfcfton given in two weekt,
A good 3 story Brick Houl'e,
With back buildings—No. 43. Spruce-ftrcet.
-Vpplv at No. 109 Spruce-street.
May 26
JOHN CRAIG
HAS jufl imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho mas, and for sale on rcafcmablc terms
by thepackage,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and Germaa linens
Rouen*
Post and Pro Patria Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Best. Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Tenerifle Wine of firft and second Quality -
Coffee in Bags and Hogiheads
Jamaica Spirits
Conne&itut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotton
Hosiery
April 18. 4 JW
Received by the ladoftan,
From Madras,
a SMALL invoice consisting of the following
£\ Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 ptmjumt
Do. do. fi-ie
Madrafs Handkerchttfs, and
Book Mcftiits
WILLING V FRANCIS.
March* 7. 3»w.
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, MAT 29, ryo;.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee hotife, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, i: not before disposed of at private
fate,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Fishing creeks, in Wash
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
ably fertile ; andhefides a large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. 1 hefe lands were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of the purchase money, a reafon
ablt credit will be given for the residue. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15. §tS
The C ommiflloners
FOR carrying into effeift the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give i»-
f»rmation to all Persons therein concerned, —That,
in order to terminate a*l differences, on account of
the leiles fullained the . itizens of the United
States, in consequence of tlaeir Vessels and Car
goes having b»en taken by the Subjeds of His Cath
olic Majeify, during the 'ate War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Offiee, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily).all complaints and applications, authorized
by the f trt Article, during £i«urtEN Months
Ircm the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as some before
them, on oath or affirmation, couching the com
plaints in queltion, and also to receive in evidence,
all written tettimony, authenticated in such man
ner as they fliall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the CommiJJtoners,
PETER LOHRA,
• Secretary.
Commijftontrs Office, AO. 109, Mulberry-
Jlreet, Philadelphia, May Ijtb, 1797.
*o—
received,
And for sale by Ilaac Harvey, jun. No. South
Water-ftrect,
A parcel of prime Rice; also,
Trmiriad and Cayenne Cotton
Coffee in Barrels and Bags
Spanilh Hides and Beef.
4th mo. 25, 1797. d4W
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
be held at the Company's Offiee, on Monday,
10 o'clock, the iathjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT. Scc'ry.
May I*. fr 4W.
NOW LANDINQ,
From on board of the ship GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alester, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viy.
CofTas Punjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
Guzeenahs India Calicoes
Emerties Cotton Checks
Mamoodits Mulmuls
Sahans Red and Blue Eernigou
hkfs
Tickeriei Patna «!o.
Jollas Santipoß do.
Carridarrics Plain, striped arnl-fiowsr
cd fine mullins
Maragunges Ginghams
Baftas, various (orts TaSfeties
Sattln Romals Bandanno red hks.
ALSO,
300 Casks Sugar
40 Boxes do.
r65 Bugs do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
10 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
May 4. <i'f
For Sale,
ON board the ship Mollv, John Frofl, master
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And OUIiEN'S WrtRE, well alforied,
By PHILIP NICKLIN y Co.
WHO HAVE IN STO*i, ALSO FOR SALE,
too Boxes WhiteHavanni Sugars
Imperial and ? T E A s
Hyson )
17 tubs Quicksilver
2chdls Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Mancheftcr Goods well afTorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufiiucts,
dimities, &c. » Trunks black sewing silk,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
Ip Tons iheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and sharp points,
London particular and 7 Madeira Wine in
India market 5 P'P CS an J kbds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds- TenerifTe Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 casks yellow paint,
7 boxes li bundles writing slates,
I box ink-stands note presses,
Sail canvas assorted No. I a 8.
May 4. dtf
Rofs 8c Simfon, .
Have for Sale,
A pr*we
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Casks
A few Quarter Chelts best
issxr" 1 ! teas
Muscovado Sugars ii. Hogiheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. II tf
Er{kine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL k Co.
No 40 South Second ftrect,
f Price 31 Cents] t
A View of the Canfes and Confequen
ees of the prefcntWar with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
i M*yi s §
By John Fenno, N o> 119 Cbefnut Street.
Millinery Koom,
No. 136 Market-flrect.
MISS CIISTSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Frier.dj that she has received by the
William Phnn, a variety of NSW MIL
LINERY, &c. wliieh (he hopes to be able to
fttew them in a few days.
May 18 $3Pt
' f
Now Landing,
At Pratt's tuharf,
FROM on board the fiiip Thomas Chalkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in casks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle f Leech.
May i 5 §
- Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. Sk Co.
No. 8 Chef,nut-Street,
Have for
FIFTY TRUNKS aeatiy aflbricd, very low on
fliort credit.
March 6. §
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans' Court,
ivill be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at Cranberry, on
Pff(driefthty t the I Atb day of tfunenext, all that valuable
REAL ESTA TE y late belonging to the Rev. Gilbert
T. Snorudest, due fed, lyu>% in and near Cranberry, in
the coufity of MiddlffX, toifynfiip of South Brunhviciy
Hate of Neiu upon Hie lower flage road leading
from PhUadHphia to Neiv 1 ori. ' A very elegant 'frame
bctife in a beaut ful and healthy situation, pair, ted white,
tuith Venetian window JbuMers> thirty feet front and
thirty tight feet de?p y two rooms with a handsome hall or
entry on the firfl Jtuor y three rooms on the second floor and
two well-fnifhedgarrets. In the rear, of the bouse is an
excellent two-flory building conftflingJif a dining-room fur
work people, spacious pantries and a large [kitchen with
every eotivenienee y and over are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building confiflir.g
of a chamber below and a library above—-under the whole
are very fne cellars paved with brick. The bouse is en
tirely new and finifbed with tafie. Evfry room is hung
W'tb bells that lead both to "the kitchen and the fervunts *
apartments : there is a pump in the yard; and a flone
and brick pavement round the whole bouse, which is enclos
ed with a handsome railings with three gates in front.
The farm confiJls of one hundred and fxty feveu acres,
with a proportion of Woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden wrth pale fence ; a large barn, fa
bles, carriage-house, co :i -houfi[s, &c. all new., and built
in the befl manner : will a young orchard of 200 grafted
trees. Nearfa adjoininy f.i.d farm is a lot of IVoodland
of the befl quality, cmtpining 37 acres. Also a tra£t of
land within seven miles, of Q*anbcrfy y containing one hun
dred and fifty acres, ibre*-fyurths memdow and the red ex
cellent timber. This will be fold in lots or together, us
will befl suit the purebafert
Tbe payments, one third cafh —one third in one year——
and the remaining third, one year following, with intereS
on the two lajl payments, and approved feeurity.
For further-particulars iwymre of Nathaniel Hunt,
or Dr. Ralph Lott, Cranberry ;of Tfiac Snow den, J
at Princeton ; or of Isaac Snow den, fun.
Second freet, Philadelphia.
May 25 §6mwftS
Richard Bay ley & Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Market-Jlreet %
HAVE received per the ships William Penn and
Star from London, a large and iafhionakle as
sortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottona, of the newest
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chixtzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and embroider'd
Do. tambour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do tamboured, of a very superior qual ty
Fine took, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
Dimities and muflinets
D3malk table-linen, in fotts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Ruflia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands aid Irifli Linens
Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
shapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Lin6n-Drapery
and Haberdafltery rtne.
May 22 §*ot
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mai! for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every morning (Sundays excepted) at half part 7
o'clock.
The Mail f r Boston will clofed everyday
(Sundaysexcepted)a r 12 o'clock doom ; and
The Mail for F.cderica, Milford, Ciowrs, Dagfbo
rougH, Delaware, Ho ntown, Accomack Court-House
and Northampton Court-Home, Virginia, will be
closed every Monday morning at half past 7 o'clock.
May 23. *i«t
fnjl Imported,
IN the (hip Woodrop Sims, Capt. Hodgfon,
from Canton, and for sale by the Subscrib
er, at Mrs. Kinfey'a, corner of Second and
Pine-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin (Teas all frelh and of
Young Hyson and C excellent quality.
Gunpowder J
Also,
A few Nankeens.
C.HAIGHT.
April 17 dtf
Just Arrived, '
In the fehooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and tor sale by the fubferiber-
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels..
St. Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Tea». Wir.es.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese.
Luteliringt. Do. Glass ware.
Siik Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton iu bales. Rheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, fee.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May »»d. di4t.
XJ)E Csa3Ct"«.
PHILA DEL PH/yJ,
, MOXDAV F.PENING, MAY :<>,
~ ... , , -—_
An Ordinance '
Providing fir the appoiittment of
City CommiJJtoners, mid p> escrib
ing their Duties.. . >
See. 1. T) Ett Ordained and js itocled the;
J 5 Citizens of Philadelphia, ia i
: Sdeft 1 and Caramon Gotntens affembkd, j 1
That at the firil meeting of the Set«£t and' i
Common Councils in die month of June in • 1
the present )tear, and at their lirlt meeting i
in the month of December in the fame and ;
every succeeding yef.r, there shall be appoint* ; 1
ed, by concurrent jxraqtiftps of the faiY! j
Councils, not less than three, nor more than i
five djfereet perfoils, citizens of, and rcfid- ■
ent in, the city P&ilatMphia, b'y the !
ijame of The City Conu|iifiD)iys, vvhoflia'.l, ;
during the period of thtir dppointrocntsi ]
exercne and perform the ftveral audgmtie* ;
and duties hereinafter and prifcribed, i
or which fliall hereafter be given and prefcri- I
bed by any ordinance or resolution of the <
Citizens of Philadelphia in Scleft and Com- j
mon Councils aflcrtibled, or which, by any 1
ordinance or resolution of the MayoT, Al- \
dermen and Citizens of Philadelphia iii i
Common Council afiembled, remaining in c
force at the time of the palling of this or- ;
dinance, and not repealed or annulled by i
the fame, are given or prescribed to the Ci- i
ty Commiffioiiers heretofore chosen and ap- 1
pointed, under an ordinance of the faii j
Mayor,- Aldermen and Citizens; pafled on |
the third day of June in the year of our <
Lord one thousand seven hundred and nine- <
ty-one, and the Conrmiffioners fp appointed j
at the firft meeting ot' the Select and Com- (
mon Councils, in the month of June in the 1
present year, (hall be and remain in office i •
until the lalt day of December following, in- \ i
clufive ; and the Commissioners so appointed ]
at the firft meeting .of the laid Councils in i
the month of December in the present or a- ;
ny succeeding year, lhall be and remain in i
office from the firft day of January flext
succeeding the time of their appointment, (
inclusive, for and during the full term of one
year, unless they or any of them ihall be
previously removed by a refbltttion of the ;
said Seleft and Common Councils ; Provid- ,
ed always, That in cafe the office of any of
the said Commissioners ihall become vacant
-by death, resignation or otherwise, such va
cancy may be l'upplied in the manner above
mentioned, at any time after it ihall so hap
pen.
Sec. 2. And be it further ordained and e
nafted, That each of the Commissioners so
appointed, before he enters upon the duties
of his office, lhall take and fubferibe an oath
or affirmation before the Mayor, according
to law, that he will faithfully execute the
office of a City Commiffionef of the City
of Philadelphia, and the said Commissioners
or a majority of them so qualified an afore
faid, which number fliall at all times form a
quorum for the transaction of any business,
lhall meet at the Court-House in H:gh-ftreet
<»r such other place as may be appointed by
a resolution of the Seleft and Common
Councils, on the Tuesday of every week,
which meeting may be continued from time
to time by adjournment : and the said Com
missioners lhall have and employ a suitable
person as a Clerk to attend in their office,
keep their accounts, and perform all such
business as is usually performed by a Clerk,
and the fame at pleaiure to difmil's, and em
ploy another.
Sec. 3. And be it further ordained and
enatted, That the said Commissioners, or a
majority of them, lhall have the several au
thorities and perform the duties hereinafter
mentioned : that is to fay, They lhall, in
the manner hereinafter prescribed, demise
and let the public wharves and landing-plac
es, the filh and scale-houses, and the cellar
under the City-Hill, and the bouse on
Schuylkill, with the lots contiguous thereto
(except so much thereof as fliall be occupied
by any buildings ere&ed for the use of the
Colleftor of the Tolls, or be necessary for
the Toll-gates at the ferry on the said river,
together with the wharves and landing-plac
es properly appurtenant to the fame) the
leases for which fliall not be made to conti
nue longer than one year refpe&ively, with
out the consent of the Selett and Common
Councils, fignified by concurrent resolutions,
and lhall contain proper covenants for the
quarterly payment of the rents thereby re
served, and the other usual and necessary
covenants, with at lealt two fufficient
sureties for the due performance of the
fame, to be approved of a3 hereafter direct
ed with refpett to the other terms of the
said leases. But every person to whom the
lots on Schuylkill may be demised, lhall be
bound to render at all times, when thereto
required, every assistance in his power, tow
ards securing the bridge at the said ferry, up
on sudden emergencies, against any injuries
from ice, >fwells, frelhets or otherwise, and
also for the swinging and replacing the said
bridge, when rendered necessary for the pas
sing of boats, or by the accumulation of
tralh Or rubbish against the lame. And the
said Commissioners fliall, at least four months
previous to the firft day of January next, and
every succeeding year refpc&ively, cause ad
vertisements to be publiflied in "two of the
daily news-papers of the city, and continued
therein thrice a week for one month, invit
ing proposals to be made and sent to them at
their office, in writing, lhting the rents
_ winch tire spphcants arc wtffcng to pay fbr
all or any psrt ot tjie saul property, andthi
said' Corran'ffionera (Lull by all propof-J:
which they I!.all !u receive before the Mify
or, and, with lire confejit and approbation,
- clftfTrrauc upon aud accent those propefal;
which fell be mod advantageous to the city.
Apd the laid Cojnmjlliohers, from year to
/ -year, shall let the fired and ipaveabie ftail -
of the markets for the h:>hell an<> bejl rent-,
payable (patterly, which can reasonably be
obtained for the fame, r-gulating the ieafts
■S ' thereof in such .manner that Ite- fame Wsli
□ expire on the hti day of Decenberiiickdnv.
1, in the present and every* future yen* refpeS
d' iveljr.'wivch recto fbett be coiieifted'by the
n « Clekks 9!' the markets-heretofore, and the
ff said Commigiooers (hall quarterly;
d ; accounts of the said Clerks, a (certain lnl»
-t : balance: due ft'jrn them Vefpeftirely, <-?r.d k
! port the fame- to :ho Tferjiirer. 'And tlv
n laid CcmmiiSottcr! Hallcpntraft wJtli proper
I- workmeii who will undertake to repair the
e bridge over j&fei£ylk ill at- High-ffrect, to h>
I, Jilaee it a? soon as ppfiibL- after it or any
part of it may be cßnied«w«y er damaged,
:s and to purch'afe timber, pfatak, and other
I, materialj m-eeffayy for the fame, end for
i- building and rep&iring'ihebtiflt or boats ni*
e ceflary t» be kept tliere, and for keeping tHe
1- rspes and whiu tfes in proper repair, ami-tff?
y said Commillicners foil fee that such cp;i
----; 1 rafts are punctually •complied with, ami
>i! report, to the SefcA and Common Councils
n L amy final delinquency therein. They {hill
- i also contrast with proper persons, fromtimtr
Y to time, to repair and keep' in repair, the
- fctry ; hoafes, ii(h and fcala-houfes, market
-- houses, wharves, docks, ami the fences ami
d iticlcfares of all the real eftatc belonging to
n the city, and' fee that such contracts are
r complied with, and they (hall take tfie gen
eral care and fuperintendance ps the said pro
d perly, so as to prevent mufances and el
-- croachments thereupon, and (hall attend to
e the execution of the several afts of the le
e 1 giflature of this slate, and the ordinances of,
1*: j the: Corporation, now in force, or which
d hereafter fuall be passed for preventing or
a removing projeftioas, obftru&ions, or nuis
ances in the streets, lanes, alleys or footways
n of the city.
t Sec. 4. And be it further ordained and
•1 enafted, That the said Commissioners, or a
e majority of them, shall examine every ac
e count which (hall be exhibited to them, for
e any monies demanded as due, in pursuance
1- of any contraS which (hall be made by them,
>f and if they allow the fame, give a certificate
it fpecifying the amount due, and the purpol
»- es for which, the debt was contracted, which
certificate, together with the account and
>- vouchers refpefting the fame, (hall be pre
sented to the-Mayor for his investigation ;
and if the Mayor approve of said account,
0 as legally due, he (hall draw an order on the
- s Treasurer for the sum mentioned in such cer,
h tificate, but if he (hall not approve thereof,
g he (hall transmit the said account and vou
ie chcrs, with such obferrations thereon as he
y may think proper, to the Stleft and Com
rs mon Cotmcils for their examination ar.d fin
e- al decifiou. Provided always, That every
a order so drawn (hall fpecify the objeft for
s, which the debt (hall have been coutraded,
et and (hall be charged by the Treasurer to the
iy particular account for which the monks
>n therem due (hall have accrued, and whenev
i, er the amount of any appropriation, or the
le sums received thereupon (hall be exhausted,
a- no ether or future order (hall be drawn upon
le such account, but notice of the fame hav
e, i.ng bees so exhausted, (hall be given by the
:h Mayor to the Commissioners, and they (hall
It, immediately thereupon notify the fame to the
n- Scleft and Common Councils, and, at the
fame time, {late the different contrads
id which (hall then have been made upon the
a credit of such appropriation, with the iita
u- ation of the refpeftive objects for which the
er fame is afligr.cd. And in order that the
in Mayor may be possessed of the neccffary in
fe formation, lie shall have authority, at any
c- time, to infpeft the books of the Treafur
ar er, or demand from him the state of the ac
-3n count of each, or any particular appropri
to ation, and the amount of the balance re- •
ed mnining in hi 3 hands thereupon. And in
he cafe it ill all at any time be found or appre
or hendtd by the said Commissioners, that any
;r, fpecific appropriation will be inadequate to
ic- the objeft or objefts for which it is assigned,
he they (hall immediately report the fame to
ti- the Selcft and Common Councils, ar.d slate
h- what further addition or provision will bo
on necessary.
is, Sec. 5. And be it further ordained and
he cnafted, That the said Commissioners (hall
re- determine upon and cause such additional
ry wells to be dug, and pumps therein to be
nt fixed, and lamps to be set up, in such con
he venient places as to them (ball appear neceffis •
ft. ry within the streets, lanes aud alleys of
he the city. And they (hall also, with the ap
he probation of the Seleft and Common Cau'n
be c>ls, limit, direst and appoint the depth of
to all vaults, wells and links, hereafter to b<;
a-, dug within the city, for privies or neceffwy
p. houses, which regulation being so made, and
es approved in Seleft and Common Councils,
id (hall Le advertil'ed in two or more newfpap
id ers of the city, and then deposited in the
if- Office, of the Clerk of the Mayor's Court,
of for the infpeftion of any inhabitant of the
lie city. And if any person or persons
hs whatever, Diall dig or csufe to be dug, any
id vault, well, or fnik for a neccffary houle cr
d- houses ps any greater depth than (liall be li
hie mited and appointed by the said Commiffiofi
:d ers in manner aforefaid, or nearer to the lice
rt- of his lot than two feet, every such perfoh
at or persons so offending, ihall forfeit and pay
ts the sum el One Hundred Dollars, aud for
[VCLV XI♦tery three months tlie-nuifjrtce (Kali remua
after notice giveu by the hud Coaunffiiontrs
to remote the feme, the person or persons
so offending (hall forfeit and pay the sum of
fifty dollars, to be sued for and recovered
jn the name of the Mayor, Aldermen and
Citizens of Philadelphia, in any Court of
competent jurifdidtion, and paid into the
Treasury for the use of the City.
Sec. 6. And be it further ordained and
enatted, That the said Commiflioners (hall
appoint a Superintendant of the nightly
watch, and hire and employ a fufficient num
ber of able-bodied men to light and watch
the city by night, at certain fixed monthly
or other wages, and prefcrihe roles for their
government, and aifmjfs them from office
when they ihall think proper, and the fa?d
Commiflioners (hall purchase and providf oil,
wick and the other materials necessary for the
supply of the public lamps, and (hall take
care that the city be properly and regularly
lighted.
Sec. *]. And be it further ordained and
enacted, That the said Commiflioners (hall
cause, from time to time, to be repaired ahd
kept in order, all the public pavements,
lamps, wells and pumps belongingto the ci
ty, and for such purpose (hall contra# with
proper persons upon such terms a3 (hall be
mo ft advantageous, and take care that such
contrails be complied with.
Sec. 8. And whereas, There are many
public ftreet3 not yet paved, which are often
in bad condition, and difficult tote passed :
J3e it therefore enafted, That the said Com
mi.Tioners (hall keep in good repair, by
drawing off the water, and otherwise, all
the public streets which are in common use.
Sec. 9. And be it further ordained and
cnafted, That the said Commiflioners (hall
cause such of the streets, lanes and alleys-os
the city, as the Seleft and Common Coun
. cils, by resolution, (hall from time to time
dire£t, to be pitchAl and paved ; and they
(hall also cause all the public streets, lanes
and alleys of the city, to be well and pro
perly cleansed, and the filth removed there
from, and (hall have authority to make such
reasonable contrails and purchases, as may
be necessary to the execution of the fame.
And that the said Commiflionres may be
made more circumfpeft, in attending to the
proper cleansing of the said streets, lanes,
and alleys, by an individual responsibility,
they, or a majority of ihemj (hall at some
one of their meetings in the month of June
in the present, and in the month of January
in every succeeding year, divide the city in
to diftridts, and assign to each one of their
own body the fuperintendance of one of
the said diftridts, and they (hall immediately
cause an advertisement of such arrangement,
to be inserted in two of the daily newspa
pers of this city, and cause the fame to be
continued therein twice a week for one
month. And it (hall be the particular duty
of each of the said Commiflioners, to attend
carefully to the cleanlinef3 of the diilrift so
placed under his care, and to fee that the
filth and all noxious matter'is seasonably and
properly removed from all the streets, lanes
and alleys therein. And the said Commis
sioners, (hall cause the manure so collefted
to be disposed of to the best advantage and
removed as speedily as pofftble.
Sec. 10. And be it further ordained and
enafted, That where the cart-way in any
public street, lane or alley in this city, hath
been paved, or hereafter (hall be ordered to
be paved, with stone, under the authority of
this ordinance, every owner of the lot or
lots of ground opposite to such stone pave
ment, (hall, without delay, at his own cost,
cause the foot-way in front of his ground to
be-paved with brick, and supported by hewn
stones, and kept in repair as they have for
merly been, or (hall be ordered to be done ;
and if the owner of any ground opposite to
the stone pavement heretofore made, or here
after to be made, (hall negledt to pave with
brick and support the foot-way, and to keep
the fame in repair, as before direfted, for
the fpaceof twenty days after he or the te
nant or occupant of such lot, or the attor
ney in fadt of the said owner, (hall have
been thereto required by any of the City
Commiflioners, then it (hall and may be law
ful for the said City Commiflioners, and
they arc herofey enjoined and required, to
pave wilh brick, and support and defend in
the manner aforefaid, and to repair all such
footways as aforefaid, and to recover the
whole amount of the expense thereof, toge
ther with twenty per centum advance there
on, as a penalty for such negledt, and the
costs of suit, by an adtion in the name of
the Mayor, Aldermen and Citizens of Phi
ladelphia, to be brought in any court of
competent jurifdidtion, against the owner of
such lot of ground, or to levy the fame by dis
tress and sale of goods and chattels of the te
nant in poffefiion of such lot of ground, in the
manner that rents arc or (hall be by lawrecovera
ble ; whichtenant is hereby authorizedtopay
the fame and deduft the amount thereofout of
the rent which may then be doe,or thereafter
become due for such lot or lots of ground,
and the fame when recovered, (hall be paid
into the Treasury for the use of the
Provided always nevertheless, That the said
Commissioners (hall not require or cause to
be paved >or repaired before the front of any
lot or lots not adtually built upon, more
than a strip of brick pavement, of the
breadth of five feet from the gutter or stone
edge bordering the foot-ways, the residue
of such footways from the said strip of pave
ment to the line of the streets being laid
with gravel, so as to support the said pave
ment, in such manner as the said Commis
sioners (hall direct.
Sec. 11. And be it further ordained and
enadted, That where there are private cart
ways leading from public cart-ways to any
itore-houfes, (tables, or other building, and
eroding any footway within the paved ptth
of the city, such footway where it (hall bt
so crossed, (hall be paved at the expense Pr
him her or them, for whofc use such cart
way is or ftjall be required or allowed, in
manner following, that is to fay, either
wholly with broad flat ft oner, hewa and
laid elofe together,' or wholly with hard
bricks laid on their narrowed fide or edge.
Sec. li. And be it further mdaincd a:id
enadted, That when the Seleft a»d Common
Councils (hall have diredted aay it recti, lanes
.and alleys to be pa»ei, repaved or repaired,
the Commifiioneu (hall execute the fame ac
cording to fueh regulations as Ihall be agreed
on by the Mayor, Aldermen and Regulators,
according to law. And to prevent irregulari
ties in tlie footways of old pavements, and
preserve a plain a'id even fuiface, any person
or perfans njaking any new pavement, or re
pairing any old one, (hall conform the fame tt>
the regulation already made, under the penal
ty of forfeiting, for every offence, the fnm
of twenty dollars, to be recovered with costs
by the said Commitfioners, or any of them,
and paid inte the treasury for the tif; of the
t ity ; and the Commiflioners ire hereby more
over authorized to take up all pivements
which have heretofore been laid contrary to
exiftirg regulations, or may hereafter be laid
in violation of this ordinance, and cause the
fame to be paved in conforrriiy thereto, at
the expencc sf the proper owner, and to re
cover the whole amount of the expence there
of, together with twenty per centum advance
thereon, as a penalty, in the manner and for
the use as heretofore diredted in the tenth
fedtion of this ordinance.
Sec. 13. And be it farther ordained and
enidted, That the said Commissioners (hall
examine all the stones provided by the own
ers or lots for the purpose of supporting the
footways at the line of the cartways, and if
they (hall not be of fuflicient length, depjh
and thukneft, and of gocd quality, or lhall
Dot be hewn so as to form even joints, and to
ortfent fair furfaces, with a proper bsvel on
the top and front, they (hall reject the fame ;
and if any owner (hall cause any of theftones
so rrjedled to be put into the said pavement to
support a footway, he or (he (hall forfeit and
pay the sum of half a dollar for every foot,
running measure, of the length of such re
j?dtcd stones, to be recovered with costs by
th« said Commiflioners or any of them, and
paid into the treasury for the use of the city.
Sec. 14. And be it furtlier ordained and
enadted, That when any person (hall be about
to eredt, or repair any house or building
within the paved parts of the city, and (hall
be desirous to occupy a part of the street, by
placing a lime honfe and materials for build
ing therein, he (hall apply to the City Com
missioners, some two or more ot whom (ball
view the place, and if they (hall think it ne
cessary to have a lime house and lay materials
in the street. they (hall allot such part of the
street as they (lull think necessary and proper
to accommodate the owner, and fhallgivea
written permiflion, describing the space so to
be used, and containing a condition that the
lime ii to be fifted in an inelofure with a close
board fence of at least eight feet in heighth
within the said space, ot upon the owner's
ground, so as not to incommode the citizens ;
and if any person (hall place any lime house
or materials for building within the paved
paits of the city, without such permiflion so
as aforefaid firft obtained, or (hall place ar.y
lime house, Gft lime, make mortar, or place
any materials, lime core or rubbi(h, in any
other part .of the street, or in any other man
ner than (hall be allowed by the Comcniifi
oners as aforefaid, or (hall fuffer the fame to
remain in the place allowed for more than
two weeks after such building (hall be cov
ered in, or, in cafe of repairs, for more than
twenty four hours after the Commiflioners
(hall have given notice for the removal there
of, he or (lie (hall forfeit the sum of three
dollars for every day the fame (hall so remain j
after such notice given, to be recovered with !
costs by the said Commiflioners, and paid in- 1
to the Treasury for the use of the City, and
if any peifon cleaning any cellar, (table or
other place, or paving or repairing any foot
way, urupon any other occasion (hall place
any rubbish or dung in the ftrret, and fuffer
the fame to remain there more than twenty,
four hours after they are so placed, or after
the repair be fini(hed, or after notice to re
move (hall be given by the Commiflioners,
or some person by their order, he or (he, so
offending, (hall forfeit the sum »f two dol
lars, to be recovered with costs before any
Alderman, by any person who will sue for
'he lame, one moiety thereof to the use of
him wh» (hall sue, and the other moiety to b%
retained dy the Alderman, and paid into the
Treasury for the use of the city. Provided
always,. That this fedtion, or any part there
of, (hall not be construed to extend to any
houfs keepers, or their fervaiits aolledting
;heir house dirt, and placing the fame with
the dirt and rubbish to be raked out of the ]
gutters and water courses, in 3 heap wiihout
the gutters, to the end that the scavengers
may remove the fame.
Sec. 15. And be it further ordained and
enadted, That the City Commiflioners (hall
appoint proper persons to be cordersof wood
?t the differeut public wharves and landing
places within the city ; and (ball alia appoint
/roi» time to time, as occasion may require,
such and so many Rands for draymen, and
hackney coachmen within the city, as to
them (hall appear requisite.
£«►. 16. And be it .furtherordained and
enatied, That the said Commiflioners (hall
make out, and cause to be delivered in two
fair copies, one of which (hall be,prefented
to the'ScJeA and one so the Common Coun
cil at their tirft meeting refped*vely, in tbe
month of December in every year, a j»ft and
uue account of all and singular their tranlac
lioi-s and difbmfemerts for the current year,
including and designating the quantity of
work and/epair done, with a fpecificatipn in
detail of the expenccs incurred for each ob
ject under their fuperintei.dance, so far as the
fame may be practicable, with an inventory
of all the stock, utensils, materials and necef
-o<iieß of every kind belonging to the city,
which (hail then b« provided, and remain on
hand, trtd together with such account and
inventory, (hall furnifh an cftimate of the fe
ver;:! futrt wl.icfi will be nrceffary to com
plete any work or tranfaftion begun and then
unAnilhed ; and the said Commiflioners lhall
calculate, make out and deliver, in like man
ner, to the Selrdt a:td Cctrman Couti«i!i, at
tlie'r fiift meeting refpcAivcly, in the said I
month of December in every y<ar, a state
ment, of the monies which will probably be
necessary for each diflinft oHjeit under their
fupenntendance for the year (uceeedinjf, and
when the said Councils (hall have determined
what sums of mnney (hall be raised for those
purpoies, the Commifiloners (bill immedi
ately affefj the fame, according to the last
county alfeffment, upon [the persons and ef
tatrs, real and peiTynaii, within the city, and
(hall also cause duplicate lirls of such assess
ment to be made out, and delivered to such
proper persons as fh-ill be willing to under
take the colle£tion thereof, and who (hall
produce the bed feeurity for the faithful per
formance of their duty. And the said Com
midioners, when such duplicate lifts are re
turned, (hallallow to the laid collectors, facli
reduflions as they may judge right, for per
sons charged with perfonul taxes, who are
not to be found, or ate unable to pay the
fame. And the said Commiflioners shall,
likewif*,. render, from time to time, such ac
connts, ftatemeiUs and information within
their department, as may be required by any
resolve of the Select or Common Councils,
and (hall submit their books, accounts and
vouchers, to t,he l'nfpeflion of any Commit
tee or Committees appointed for that put
pofe, by either of the said Councils.
Sec. 17. And be itfurther ordained and
enafted, That if any person or persons (hall
and do, after the passing of this ordinance,
maliciotifly, wilfully or wantonly break or
cany away the handles, or flop up the spouts
of any of the public pumps, or ntherwife
injurs, or damage the said pumps, or (hail
extinguish, break destroy injure overthrow or
carry away, any of the public lamps, lamp
pods, watch houses. or any thing pertaining
thereto, in any of the ftteets, lanes or alleys,
within the city, every such person so offend
ing and eveiy person aiding or concerned in
such offence, (hall forfeit and pay for every
such offence the sum of one Hundred dollars,
to be applied to the purposes of lighting,
watching, and paving theftreetsof the city,
and the city Commissioners are hereby ftri£Uy
enjoined diligently to enqnire after and to
prosecute all who (hall offend hereip.
Sec. 18. And be it further ordained at)d
enabled, That an ordinance of the Mayor,
Aldermen and Citizens of Philadelphia, pass
ed the-third day of June, one thousand seven
hundred and nioety-one, entitled, "An ordi
nance for providing for the lighting, watch
ing, watering, pitching, paving and cleans
ing the ftrerts, lanes and alleys of the city of
Philadelphia, and for other purposes therein
mentioned," and every matter and thing
therein contained, is hereby repealed and
made null and void.
Enabled into an Ordinance at Philadelphia,
L. s. c. the twenty-second dav of May, in the year
of our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-seven.
SAMUEL HODGDON,
President of the Common Council.
FRANCIS GURNEY,
President of theSeleft Council.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
Tuesday, May 23.
In a committee of the whole, Mr. Dent in the
chair,-on the answer reported to the Prcfi
dent's Speech, Mr. Nicholas's proportion
being under confideratien :
Mr. Oiles said, that as the committee ap
peared divided on the address, and as he had
; attended the discussion, he submitted to the con
| fideration of members whether it would not be
1 advifeable, in ordtr to produce a spirit of una
i nimity and cool deliberation, to recommit the
report and fend the amendment also to the com
mittee with an addition of members : he wilh
ed the gentleman last up had been more delicate
on a fubjedl that {he had touched ; if he infers
that because one part ef the members may think
a ra(h measure just, that those who think differ
ently must not exercifc their judgments in think
ing the contrary, he thought the gentleman had
overstretched his reasoning jhe was one of those
who felt a strong apprehension of a war ; he
thought one means would be more likely to
prevent it than another —&he wasforuiing that
preventive measure because he thought it both
just, honourable, and wife ; wo all concur in
our declaration of at least a Jove of peace, he
was sorry ts hear language which betrayed a
very different disposition j he was for (hewing
our ultimatum and taking the consequences, but
he would not agree to be either filly or insolent
in the proceeding, because nothing was so unbe
coming a wife man or a wife people, as an
ger or petnlent irritation, when their happintft
and that of millions was at (lake; he \vi(hed
the report to be re-committed, that we might
proceed thus wifely ; after we had determined
well and the issue Ihould disappoint our fair and
just expeflations —he (hould not beone ofthofe
that would a(k othert to support his opinions—
he would standby his country in the storm, and
lhare its fate, prove then by 1 recommittal that
you do net aim at the triumph of a party, he
therefore moved the recommittal ; which was
opposed by Mr. Harper and Mr. Brooke on the
ground of its not being calculated to produce a
ny effect.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker J said that he ho
ped the motion of the gentleman from Virginia,
which had for its obje<£l a recommitment of the
answer, would not prevail It was certainly
very desirable that the Seleift Committee, ap
pointed in the firft instance for the purpose,
Ihould have reported such a draft of an answer
as would have united in its favour all parts of
tht house. He was not the only one who had
expefterlit. Disappointed, however in fact)
an expectation, they were forbidden, Mr, Day
ton said, to indulge a hope than any good couM
Ibe derived from fending it back to * committee
j before one vote at least was taken, and thefenfe
j of the house thus far ascertained as to the flyle
and tenor of their reply. If this propofilion
for amendment (hould succeed, then the bufioefs
would be right for rcferenceto a committee, who
would take such amendment as their guide, and
fo'modify the report as to render the whole ccir
refpondent with it. As to the motion more
immediately under consideration, he could not
' give it his unqualified vote, more efpeeially
whtn it was considered and acknowledged to
be in its operation a complete fubftitutc. Can
dor, however, compelled him to declare, that
it contained one featart, and that too an im
portant one, which attracted his attention, and
would certainly have his approbation. There
would, however, be a taiore proper place for
introducing it than that proposed by the mo
yC- Stripped as tfcs more ciccpticr.a'Jc tp.t
ter with which it wu,th;n eonr.efted, it might
very well he adopted as an amendment ill one of
the'lat'ter pirignphs of the report, and would
not at all vary the principle, or be imonfiilent
with the general tendrofit.
Wednefda'y, Afay 24.
Mr. Swanwick openedifie debate this morn
ing.' He'lamented the iofs of time Which was
generally experienced at the optY.ing of every
felfion in debating the anfwerto the Prcfidcnt's
i speech, when, perhaps business of the fiift mo
ment called for immediate attention It wjs
mueh to be wilhed that committees appointed 1
for this purpose, would confine to
the inftruflion! which were given to them on
the occaGon, which were in general terms, viz.
*'s to prepafe a refpeAful address, alluring the
President that the house will take into their se
rious consideration the various important nut
ters recommended to their attention.' If an
swers were drawn in general term? conform
ably to these inftruitions, he thought very ma
ny of the embarrassments which they now ex
perienced would be avoided, and every member
would be left at liberty to purluc fueh ineafures
as appeared to them right, when they came be
fore him in the ordinary courl'e of business, un
clogged by any creed which he rr ight have been
called toaffent to before he had an opportunity
of considering the fubjeifts it contained. It al
so often occasioned much warmth in debate, and
served to divide the house into two parties on
the very threshold of their business. This could
not poflibly have any good effrfl, but the con
trary ; he (hould therefore be happy to fee the
practice limplifiedor abphlhed together.
The effedt at present ha3,been, that no sooner
had the committee appointed to draft an address
trade a report, than the gentleman from Virgi
nia proposed a substitute, which atcording to
his idea, was more proper. A warm debate
had taken place, and he believedf that either
might be adopted without effetfl, as they were
merely a form of words leading to no conclu
sion. Suppose a majority of one was obtained
on the report, what end would be produced ?
None : for it might be that the very persons
who voted on thi» general question, might vote
ag2inft particular fubjefls when they came un
der consideration ; as every one would recollefl
the difficulties which had been experienced in
getting three frigates built, and this difficulty
he doubted not, would again occur. Since,
however, thele'two forms of an anfwerwere be
fore them ; and they were called upon to fay
which they would adopt, It might be proper to
go into some confideratioc of the fubjedt.
The difference betwixt the two produiftions
seemed to be, that the one reported seemed to
express great indignity on account of the inju
ries received ftom the French republic, and a
determination to repsl them ; that produced by
the gentleman from Virginia was of a more
conciliatory tone, recommending to the Presi
dent to begin his negociation with placing the
French republic on the fame ground with the
other belligerent powers. So that the difference
was (imply as itrefpefted a few words.
What were the arguments in favor of the
warm tone ? They were told it would have a
great effeift on the French republic ; because if
a fpitited answer were given to the President's
, c&mmunicaaion, fignifying (zi his colleague,
Mr. Sitgreaves expieffed it) that we were de
termined to " die in the last ditch," it would
Itrike them with terror. If he thought thisef-'
fedt could be really produced, it might be some
inducement for him to agree toit.
Mr. S. remarked, that they were told by Mr.
Pinckney, in his letter to the Secretary of State,
that it was probable that two events had contri
buted to his dismissal from the French republic,
viz. tne, the victories of Buonaparte in Italy,
the oiVr, the address of the Senate and Honfe
of Keprcfentatives in anfwerto the speech of
the President at the last session. With refpeft
to the answers alluded to, no opinion could be
formed from this afferlion, because, though that
©f the House of Representatives was tolerably
moderate, yet that of the Senate was as warm
it anything could be produced. He read cx
tra«sis from both, and compared them with each
other, giving the credit, which in his opinion,
was due to the nod moderate.
The firft and most necessary step to be taken
was, to put all the belligerent powers upon the
fame footing, which could not be an offence to
any. But it was said that to recommend this
measure to the executive, was to dictate to him ;
that it was carrying humility on the front of
the minister who should be employed. What 1
said Mr. S. would it be to carry humility ill the
front, to fay," I some to place you on the fame
footing with the most favored nation ?" It cer
tainly could not ; since it was the language of
right reason—os juflice.
As to chelating to the executive, could it be
called diflating, when we merely express our r
piaion and'advice to him on points, which he
has himfelf laid before us, and in order to deli
berate on which we were thus unusually called
together ; very low and debasing indeed, must
be the situation of this house, if they were to be
muzzled and prevented from laying their ftnti
ments before the chief magistrate of the union.
When treaties are made, we are told they are
laws over which we have no power—lf we dare
not speak en the fubjeift before they are made,
is this house reduced, merely to the odious talk
of laying, taxes, without being allowed to ex
press its fenfc on any other important public
measures eoniuvtcd with them ? Why does the
Prefidi nt communicate these things to us, if we
are not allowed to express any sentiments about
them ? Why do the people eleil their reprsfen
ta'tives, all over this widely extended empire—
if, when they are convened, they are not allow
ed the faculty ef expressing their opinions 011 the
dearest interests of their constituents .'—But it
isftated that this will create divisions among the
brmches of government, who ought always to
all and think alike- Were this the cafe, theie
was no ofe to divide the government, as our
conllitution does, into three branches—they
1 might all have been left in one, ar.d then no ac
: cidents of this kind would have happened ; but
the fail is, this very division of the branches
was devised in order that they might operate as
, checks on each other. The people thought it
better that a division of this kind Ihould pre
vent aflirig at all, than fhat we Ihould aft hasti
ly and uHadviledly.—Thus when a law, after
1 mature deliberation, passes this house as wife
■ and good, the senate were not obliged on this
1 account, to fee it in the fame light ; they judge
: for themfrlves, and if they fee cause reject it,
and no complaint takes plaee on oor part be
cause they do so. Ih ano her government, in
-1 deed that of England, all the branches have
> been contrived in the moll perfcA union, king*,
> lords, and mmmons all agree, but hath the go-
I vernmcnt been the beiter for this > Happy had
it been for that nation, had this not been the
cafe. Many an unwifc measure they have gone
into, might then, fortunately for the nation,
have been totally prevented..
But it ha'th been said we ought to express the
■ high eft indignation at the conduit of France.
Let us examine for a moment on what this is
founded. Three grounds have been mentioned
—tV dismission of our minister, the spoliation
on our (hips, and the interference with our go
vernment, in attempting to divide the peopla
from it. As to the firft, the dismission of our
■ minister, fai<l Mr. Si r.abedy can feel more fenfi
bly than I do the indignity ; hut it cn y K:.>
"*ne to regret, as I hive often already exprefi"d
my regrets, at our fending so many diplomat!::
gentlerrjet. to Europe. Wretched will be our
cafe, if we are embr»i!ed whenever those gen
tlemen {ball be refufed, or uncivilly treated.
All history i> full of inftancesof wars, fouaded
on such points of etiquette is these, and they
admonish us only to avoid employing embaffie),
as much as polTible, to avoid these dangers from
our foreign <onntfl:»ns. But it seems, the di
reflory, by Mr. Pinckney's lett«r, at the fame
time sent away 13 other foreign ministers j yet
fwe don't hear that these nations went to a
war on this account. One of them was Swe
den, a very powerful maritime nation, poffefled
of a considerable fleet, her minister was difmiff
ed —She contented herfelf with fending away
the French minister also, and here-the dispute
ended. But surely allowance ought to be made
for the prcfent revolutionary state ot Franee.
If all things do not there with the or
der they ought ; it is perhaps because of their
present warlike and revolutionary poGtion,
which cannot but mend every day, and should
induce us to make some allowance for them
1 ■ .i 11
From the COLUMBIAN CENTINEL.
FRENCH INFLUENCE—No. VI.
MR. RU3SI LL,
REASONING from the nature of man,
and of civil society, abftradied from experi*
ence, a pbilofopher might fairly deduce, the
dangerous nature, the pernicious effefts of
organized clubs—he would naturally observe,
that such aflbciations had a tendency to ex
cite and foment afpirit of party, to localize
and narrow the feelings of thfc members of
them, to separate their ftjiings, their pride,
and their interest, from those of the commu
nity at large—to establish that bane of all
governments, tt-at monster so univeifally
dreaded in antient as well as modern times,
the " Imperium in imperio"—that such clubs
when opposed to a government, become the
more dangerous, as they were enabled to aft
with more fyllem, to preserve more consist
ency, to facilitate the commuwication of (lan
der and traiterous objedls, and to operate,
with mjre unity and Itronger effefl, than de
tached individuals poflibly could do. But
the melancholly tals, founded on the experi
ence of tl.c unhappy French, and corrobora
ted by some interclting events i u this country,
affords a darker pi&ure.
Anarchy, infurteftion, rapine and mu'der,
have marked the bloody foot Heps of disor
ganizing clubs in France, and if we Imve
happily eicaped these baneful effefts, these
horrid outrages, it i» rather to be attributed
to the good sense of our people, the wisdom
and prudence of our rulers, thar. to any spirit
of moderation, any solid principles of vir
tue, in our " Conjlitutienal" societies. The
only (hiking feature, which was ever unveil
ed to the eye of an injured and indignant
public, was a mean, servile, childish imita
lion, of the maternal club, at Paris. They
copied, lilt the Chincfe, with too much mi
nuteness : They adopted not only the capti
vating principles of French " Liberty and
Equlity" but they introduced their style,
their bombastic and turgid expieflions : they
affe&ed also the Republican rudentfs (in
France termed fimplicity]—in their manners,
their conduft, and conversion. Like them,
too, they attempted to influence the public
opinion, with raree (hows, by civic fealis, by
republican symbols, by revolutionary mujic.
Tbey even dared at certain periods to applaud
the cut throat tunes intended to excite
French mabs to plunder, autrage and murder,
and to cenlure American mulic, commemo
rative of our national honor.
So widely diffufive was thei.r influence, so
subversive of national pride, and national Ito.
nor, that a cold apathy appeared re pervade
the great mass of the community. The ba
sest j:Vults upon our government, or nautral :
rights, from French infoleßce, not only ef- .
. raped censure, but found dastardly advocates.|
If there were in the nation some who burned j
, with indignation at those abufrs, they were j
either intimidated by the thteats, or overaw- |
ed with the influence of what appeared to be '1
the public opinion. While on the other hand
through the inßrumentality of the Jacobins,
the people were inflamed and outrageous at
every aggrefiion of the British. Every in
jur)', every outrage of that nation, (all of
which were unjuftifiable) were magnified and
distorted. War } horrid war, with that inso
lent foe, was the most moderate meafare we
could adapt. Honejlus, at one time the prop
and the oracle of the Jacobin Club at Bos.
ton, in a speech which will not soon be for
gotten, undertook to prove that we were at
that time, and had long been at open war
with Great Britain. ftatefman,
has now changed his tone, and viewing in
juries through thedenfe medium of gallic In
fluence, he cannot perceive any thing irrita
ting, any tiling unjuftifiable, any thing in
deed which is not commendable, io the conduft
• of France, towards America. The pru
dence of our executive in preferring honora
ble negociation to>7umi!iating war, io the
safe of Great Britain, was called pulillani
mity, nay it was even hinted, that WASH
. NGTON was absorbed in the vortex of
Britannic influence.
In the cafe of French depredations, French«
barbarities, French insults, more cruel, more
; outrageous, more unwarrantable, more un
grateful to a country, which (lonelily and
anijincerely cheri/bed her eaufe, no measures
can be too lenient, no condefceniion too
mean. T hough her haughty tyrants, in all
the turgid infolenee of power, fhou'd kick
1 our miniileis from their presence, andfpum
at our humble and modefl fuppiications——
though with more bombastic pomp than
. would difgracean Eastern Vizir, the Direc
. Tory did 111 " fail," refafe to admit our Special
, Envoy (for such was Mr. Pinckney) to an
- audience, disdained to enter into a cerrefpon
' denee with htm, and made his secretary Maj.
Rirtledge, (land like a lacquey, behind their
chairs —though with an insolenCe, un'pau!<
leld even in their treatment to thedegvaded
: Hollanders, or the wretched Genrwns, thev
have infilled in writing, that they will noc
■ receive "any Minijlcr" from the United
1 States, until we have complied with all the
1 unreafonahle and humiliating demands of
} France : Yet theie am ftilj to be fonnd in thi*
r country, miserable sycophants who not only
. falliate hot applaud tbij infamous conduct—.who rejoice in their counrry's wrf—>*lv>
would kif« the hand that lacerates, and bow
to the imperious head, which diftates ftK'l'
difgraceful termj to our country. That thife
fentitnents are solely the effedtsof, the ii,ftu
ence I have defctibed, and that we have al
ways had more reafno to be offended will'
France than with Cieat Britain, 1 (hall at
tempt lo prove hereafter.
LEQNIDAS.
Mr. Russell,
THE writings Under the fignatureof ''!&■
on'nfat," do honor to the head, and heart of
the writer : As a Stalefmai I he appears to
be thoroughly acquainted with the difpofi
rions and proceedings of our to
wards France : As a Patriot lie is anxiors
to exonerate his country from those libellous
charges of perfidy and ingratitude, which have
been made agaii.lt her by Genet, Fauchet, and
Adel; ani which hive been aided by the
abominable treachery of many American-
Arnolds, wha have fold their consciences for
French gold, and have belied and traduced
the legitimate government of a country which
13 disgraced in having given birth to them ;
merely that they might find favour in the
light" of the rulers of France; and fhsre in
the general plunder of friends and foes.
That the.American Republic Ihould silent
ly submit to the repeated libels on itsgovetn
ment.and people ; that it should tamely bear
iriftilt and outrage ; appears to be the wish of
those who have grown callous to the-fame in
famous line of conduft : But Heaven be
praised, such is not the sentiment of the
great body of the American people ; nor
such the creed of her ablest champions and
defender*: The fatellite3 of France, thro*
the medium of certain jacobin vehicles of
fonder, have spread far and wide their cal
umnies againlt the eonrtituted authorities ;
charged onr courts of jilftice with violating
the laws of the land, and existing treaties ;
denounced the men whom the citizens of
America have seen leading their armies to
victory in the cause of liberty; or presiding
at the head of our councils.
To refute the charges, and {hew the sals
hood of those calumnies and denunciations,
is a b< unden duty on eveiy than who has time
and talents equal to the task : The latter
falls to the lot of I.eomdas, and it is hoped
he will never be weary in well doing.
PHILO LEONIDAS.
LONDON, March 27.
ADDRESS TO THE NATOIN.
Pstman-fquare, March 27/1767.
It w. Bmv intention to have entered my
Protest on the Journals of the House of Lords
the day after I moved my Address to his
majeity for peace, and for that purpose 1
went to the clerk's office, and to my utter
furptife I found that my address had never
been entered upon the Journals. Upon in
quiry I was informed that Lord Kenyon bad
taken it home with him. I wish at all events
that the public should be in pofTcffion of my
Protcft, and I hereby pledge myfelf to my
country and to the House of Lords, that L
will this day, in my place, in that House,
demand the fullcft reparation far this insult,
offered thro me to the <whele House, ia this
illegal and unprecedented manner.
PROTEST.
Dissentient, First, Because feeing no
means of salvation for this country but by
an immediate, Jincere and lajling peace, 1
think the Address, which f moved March
23, 1797» calculated to produce that happy
event, and that a refufal to carry that Ad
dress to the Throne, tends to a continuation
of this cruel war, which I hold to be certain
ind inevitable ruin.
Secondly, Because a secretary of Halt's
moving that an address to his majesty on the
30th December, 1796, should be read, is a
poor, weak, and rude manner (t« fay no
worse of it) of answering the arguments ad
vanced in my address.
Thirdly, Because I believe that the argu
ments advanced by me, have never before
been touched upon even in debate, and no
attempt having been made to answer those
arguments, the conclusion which the public
draw from it is, that they are perfeftly
unsnfwerable.
Fourthly, Because it was my fineeie wish
that the eyes of his majesty should be open
ed to the dangers with which he is surround
ed, and that giving peace to his exhausted fub
jeQs, and reSoring to them their rights,
should be his own gracious aft.
Fifthly, Because I have the highest au
thority for every sentiment refpefting the
" ceconomy and reform of abuse?," which I
recommended : namely, his majelty's own
words, in that molt excellent and patriotic
speech made it the close of the American
war, and which 1 quoted in my reply.
Sixthly, Because whenever a nation is in
the situation we are«n at present, it requires
the united energy and public spirit of the
whole nation, tie re establish its credit, and 1
am peifuaded that energy and public spirit
are euly to be obtained by the public pofTef
fmg their ancient free eonflitutian, which
thej so juflly revere ; and I maintain, that
according to common law, which is common
'sense, and according to " the true sprit of the
•conflitiuion," which is founded in wisdom,
liberty, and justice, the people in Great Bri
tain have a right, and ought to be fairly and
equally represented in that, which, by its ve
ry name, is their house of Parliament.
Seventhly, Beeaufe 1 hold the borough
system, and every other fyftrm of corpora
tion that has of late years crept into praftice,
to be direftly contrary to the true spirit ol
the conflitution, and big with the molt alar
ming evils ro King and People, and that to
confe.r the honor of peerage on men whe
h»v« no other merit thin that of commanding
Boroughs, and performing Ministerial jobi :
degrades thai high dignity, and tskes away
«ce df the greatefl motives that afluates the
' uman mind, thehope of reward, by mak
mgit unworthy the acceptance of those met
for whom it was who I r.vt
1 endured great and diltinguifhed fetviees tc
thtir country, by their valor, their talents
ortheir learning.
Eigfcth'y, Because I amdefircui of fr.aV
ihg ihis public avowal of py pvio. pics,— 1
which nothing on earth (hail make me alter, '
»nd which I learn from the aiis and writings'
cf our ancestors, who loved liberty and un- e
derftood it.
Ninthly, Because I am.refulved, whenever f
I fee dinger, boldly and independently, to the 1
full extent of my ability, to difchargc my j
duty to my King and Country. j
Oxford & Mort 1 mfr. )
%t>e dpasette* !
ma,,,
PHILADELPHIA\
-MONDAY EVENING, MAY 59. j
Died, on Tuesday last in the 28th year of i
her age, Mrs. Elizabeth Ori Mc. Ki chnie,
wife of Mr. Lnndin Mc. Kechnic of this City. 1
Mrs. Mc. Kechoie sustained a lingering sickness
with the fortitude and relignation cliaiaiteriftic
of thechriflian.
An Ealtern paper fays that some of the 1
Clergy have lately omitted praying for the
deftru&ion of the Pope.
A New-York paper fays that there is no
longer any queftibn on the fubjeft of the au
thenticity of Mr. Jefferfon's letter to Mr.
Mazzei. What will the world think now
of the views of our French partizans ?
Admiral Vandeput is arrived at Halifax
from the Chffapeake.
" The (hip Alligator is arrived at Ports
mouth, N. H. (fays the Centinel) in 4days
from Liverpool, and brings nothing new:
Thus evaporates the story of a second em
bafly to Paris."
Extraft of a letter from the captain of the schoo
ner Susannah, dated Guadaloupe, 2d April.
" I am sorry to inform you of our illfaccefs
on the voyage. I left Cape Henry on the 25th
of February, and on the 12th of March, five
leagues N. W. of Antigua was captured by a
French privateer mounting two guns and forty
meß, who took myfelf and three men out of the
schooner, put a prize-«na!ter and seven French
men on board, and brought us to this place,
where, after two days, om- trial commenced —
both veiTel and cargo condemned—myfelf plun
dered of books, quadrant, and most of my
cloathes ; and what is (till worse, the whole of
my people put in gaol, and myfelf threatened
very hard. There are upwards of for:y Ame
ricans in gaol in this place, besides a great num
ber that have been exchanged with the Englilh.
Our treatment is most intolerable ; worse than
that of the Turks in Algiers—infultrd by every
blick fcamp,and they protedled by the govern
ment. Nothing is more common here than for
a blacJt soldier to have a white man arretted for
the smallest offence—l don't know whit to com
pare it to, for I am sure the Moors in Barbary
have more humanity—All the black American
seamen are obliged to work for the republic, and
have only three quarters of a pound of bread
and four ounces ot cod filh for twenty four
hours. They condemn all vessels cleared out
for the Weft-Indies, except for Guadaloupe, ;
there has been about ten condemned since I was
here. I have not been able to fee my people
since they were were put in gaol, except one,
who works for the republic—We are not per
mitted to go to the giol, as they have an idea
that America will declare war against them. If
I were to insert the whole of my ill usage it
would take two or three (heet» of paper They
condemn vessels, some for one thing and some
for another ; any thing will answer if they
want the cargo—The owners of the privateers
are tke judges, so that everyone trys his own
cause. I foal! be I suppose, some time
in May, and hope to find congress fitting ; lam
i determined to go before theni, and if they will
not give us fatisfailion, nor fuffer us to defend
ourselves, I will never fail under the flag again,
for I am determined "to have fatisfaition at the
risk of my life and salvation.—l have taken
charge of a (hip here for St. Thomas's, where
I (hall make all possible dispatch for home.
1 Ships of 200 tons fell here for 100 Joes.
1 " I (hall be obligedto leave my people here ;
I have tried every means to get them out, but all
5 to no purpose.
" The following is a lift of American vtflels
condemned since 1 have been here : Brig Sally,
1 capt. Baty, from Baltimore, with corn and flour;
' Lady Walter Storff, Gutterfon, Philadelphia ;
Maria Wilmans, Gardner, Baltimore, cargo
condemned, vessel tleared ; Calliope, Leonard,
. New-York, from Teneriffe with wine i—Sally,
. Vetet, Rhode- Island, from the Coast of Afrii a,
t with slaves ; Schr. Adventure, Compton, Bal
timore, from Demerara, with coffee; Brig Bet
: fey, , New-York ; Amelia, , Bolton ;
: and myfelf—together with a great number at
Point Petrc, have all been condemned within
this ten days, and all their trews put into gaol."
Accounts from Lifbon,to April u, inform—
That admiral Jarvis's squadron, re-inforced by
5 fail of the line from England, and the 4 Spa
nilh prizes had failed from thence in quelt of
1 the united Spanish and French armada, which
(t was said had failed from Cadiz for the Medit
erranean. The United Fleet after being rein
• forced by the French squadron, amounted toa
bout .50 fail of the line. The Englilh fleet com
! priu;d only 24. (Col. Centinel.)
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
1 Pour of Philadelphia.
i arrived. days-.
Ship ludia, Afiimead Madras, 105
■ Brig American, Town Port de-Paix, 14
Diana, Eaftburn London, 52
Schooler Maria, Wilson, returned in. distress.
■ Sloop Fatty, Mitchell, Alexandria 10
1 Rhoda, Rowden, St. John's 13
The fchr. Maria, Wilson from hence to Go
-1 naives left the rape the 24th inst —on 25thfprung
a leak and put back. On the 26th, it jo,
A. M. lat. jB, 29, about 12 leagues S. E. of
the was boarded by the French priva-
I teer Pandour. Capt. Wilson was ordered on
board with his papers —the capt. of the priva
teer finding that the Maria was-bound to a
French port, and informed of her diftrtfs, fm
-1 mediately dismissed h«r. The Pandour has been
a three malted fchooner —is now a brig with
, yellow fides, low stern, no head and her guns
[ boused, and is said to have only 6on board.—
A ship and 2 fclloontrs were ftrnding off, at a
diftancc, bnfcipt. W- did not learn who they
' were. Offthe Light House spoke a small rel
' low sided brig bound to St. Domingo, and in
! formed her ofthe privateer.
' Extract from the journal of tne (hip India, Capt.
' H AD)mead, from Madras.
: The Englilh (hip Berwick, which had a-rived at
Madras at the last of January, and fpok; the A
) merican (hips llluftrious President and Atlantic, a
. (hort time before near the Equinodia!. .
} The Ganges, Capt. Green, arrived at Calcutta
ibout the 15th January.
' A (hip under Danifli colours arrived at Madras
he litter end of January, from Manilli: left at
■ that port two American ft'ps, Capt. Prince and
Doielof Bo;lon, ml an.Amfrisin (hip from Co-, (
tany Bay, mailer's name forgot. : |
March 17. Spoke the ship Jane. Capt M'.Phfr- ,
son, from Caleuttifer Philadelphia, a little to the
eatlward of Cape L'A^alla*.
May 17. Kpoke the (hip Neptune, Capt. Millar, '
fro-r. Calcutta, for New-York, out 118 ,diyj, all <
well. j
May 19. Spoke a fmill fchoaner; « the Dart of (
New-York,onhcrftern, a Bernuidian
privateer, and bound to Bermudi, but did net '
learn the privateer's name that hid taken hr. I
The mate of the Nancy, Perry, which failed a |
f<Mv days a»o from this port to London, is arrived j
in town, with the information of the capture of j
that (hip on Tuesday morning la ft, a little zn the
southward of the-Capes, l>y a French privateer of- '
14 guns (a brig called the Pandour.) She captur- ■
ed the fame evening the hrig Two Sifters, Sherer, i
from hence to Jamaica, and sent them both for the f
Cape. The privateer was from Curacoa, and the .
captain said he had orders to capture all American
v.£Tels.to or from Uritilh ports, and hat fe»t a copy J
of his orders to this city. They had taken five 1
vefie's before, i.ut none of this port. They put (
it of the people on board of a pilot boat, from j
whence they have come up in a schooner from A- i J
lexandria.
iniMiai inninn
NEW-YORK, May 25. , J
The following genuine letter is from a gen- | ,
tleman of intelligence and veracity—its ; j
contents arc highly interelling at this mo- j |
ment. ! ,
Ext raR of a letter from Holland, dated 3c/ tf\ .
February. ( j
Very soon after you wrote the eleflionsof (
Piefident and Vice-President were compleat- (
ed: they have excited in England, in France
and in Holland, a degree ofinterefl and at- .
tention, which proves the rising importance j
of the United Stales. The event has been (
expefted with a degree of feeing, of trepi- ,
dation, of ardent wi(hes in favor of one or j
the other candidate, which has afforded one j
more melancholy proof, of the profoundly .
rooted principle of animosity, which at this
moment arms one half of the hnman race a- |
gainst the other. All the friends and parti- ,
fans of ancient eftablifhmenjs, good or bad, (
throughout Europe, all the adherents of
Great-Britain, all the people who have pro
perty yet left in their hands, all the peacea
ble, moderate and humane, and all the ene
mies to the present French adtninilfration, a
motley mixture, whose sentiments one would
imagine never to concur in any one point,
agree in their wishes for one of the persons
considered as candidates : while all the ad
herents to the present French government, all
those who pant for revolutions, all those who
are by anticipation f ecding upon the plunder
of the present proprietors, all those who are
fattening upon war, and railing ,ortunes up.
on the misery of nations, all the remaining
enthusiasts for democracy, all who desire to
fee the United States at war with Britain, ar«
equally zealous in favor of another. They
seem on both fides to fancy, that the detiiay
not only of America, but of Europe, is, in
a manner, suspended upon the decilion, and
both have already indulged in the exultation
of announcing that the choice has fallen upon
him whom they refpeftively favor.
The firfl, ohjeft of our attention at this
time, is the ptedicament in which we (land
towards France. Nothing new nas turned
up, except rumours and reports propagated
by the usual French mechanism lo operate
upon the public opinion. Our American let
ters generally fay, that the lat« conduft of
the French government has not occasioned
any alarm in the United States. I cannot
fay the fame of the Americans in Europe ;
many of the friends of our government are
frightened ; and the impreflton produced up
on our (locks ia considerable. Every artihee
of France is at work, and thtre is scarcely
any thing operating to counteraft it. In
general the alarm is heightened by Americans
themselves. . I have, in former letter, given
you a flatement of the interell and motives
which concur to bias the minds of our coun
trymen now in Europe, and informed you,
that Paris has long been the resort of many
individuals, to whom the deftrudtion of our
government, and a civil war in the United
States, are objefts of desire and puifuit.
It cannot be too Arenuoudy repeated, De
caufethe final event depends altogether upon
; this single point of fa£f. The French go
vernment have been led to believe that the
people of the United States, hare but a feeble
attachment to their government, and will not
support them in a contest with France. It is
upon the idea of this internal weakness and
division alone, that the French have hitherto
ventured upon their late measures, and, as
they arc (fill flattered with the fame hope,
it is impoflible to ascertain how far it will
. lead them. The event of the presidential
eletfion, as now announced, has exceedingly
mortified them. Upon a train which they
had so long been concerting and laying, they
had founded and been encouraged in rhe mo(t
sanguine expeflalion of fsttling the choice,
The effedl which they certainly did produce,
that of throwing thirteen or fourteen votes
into one scale, which, but for tbem, would
> have been in the other, and their approxima
tion to success, has rather Simulated further
' exertions, than deteired them from repeating
, their experiment. ill success has'pro
voked, without discouraging them, and they
, are afluted, that by persevering and beating
| harder upon us, they (hall compel the Ameii
f can government to submit or furcecd in over
• turning it. I fpesk not from simple con
-1 je£hirr, but from inferences confirmed by
personal obfervation,and by intelligence tolti
ably direst.
, They know perfeftly well, that if thertiat
-1 ter should be brought to an hoAde iflue, and
i the American people support the measures of
their gorernment, Fnyice muff give up the
1 contest. They know that France, by doing
her worst, cannot eflentially hurt us external
ly ; as to her fending an army against us,
they have not the most distant idea cf it; and
yoti may judge from the iflue of their expedi
tion against Ireland, in a condition their
c naval power is. Ships it is indeed poflible
for them to build and rig; but failots and
1 rmrine officers they cannot make, and tbey
hive them not. This famous Irish expedi
-1 lion, befidctall its preparatory expenses, h*s
cost them three Ihips.of the line, three Attics,
t two frigates, two cutlers* fever.il transports,
] foor or five thoafang' mm, sfria a great dea
of dtrri3gc So all their vjflels returned. Fiom
the firft moment of their failing, until i':e re
tarn of the last tTanfport, every circumilance '
that lias been related of them, or that they
relate thetnfelres, Ihews their totM deflhutino
of naval (kill or experience. One would ima
gine from the accounts, that they had not
un board the whole fleet, a man capable of
managing a fail boat. The French pupers
(till announce verv pompously that gteat pre
parations are making for a second expedition,
but the general Hoche i$ appointed to ar.o- ■
ther command, and if shey venture out with _
their fleet again, it vrili only he to meet with
a more difdttrous fate. As to thei't allies, ,
Spain and Holland, nothirg is to be expcfled
from any concert of operations between them.
The history of the late EHith expedition a t
gainst the Cape of Good fiope, affords two
important incidents from which the conclu
sions are inevitable. That expedition was
planned in concert with the French, and at
three several flations on the paffirge they kad
engaged to furnifha reinforcement of troops. .
at every owe of them they totally failed. 0" I
the very firft appearance df the English fqtiad- <.
Ron, the Dutch sailors almost nnanimoufly t
stripped off their three colsted coi.kade9, fuD- t
itituted the orange badges in their stead, refe
upon their ofHcers, and would not fuffer the ,
admiral to employ the f<ttd refoucre of burn
ing or injuring his (hips, but eotfif>e)led him j
to surrender tiiem up at difcretiun, and seven c
eights of them immediately entered into the r
Briiifli service. The fame temper prevails ,
among the seamen here in the Texel ; and it (
is but a few days ftnee, 1 heard a marine ofH- j
cer fay, in answer to general Rewbell, i bro- ! a
ther of the French diredlorj who was enquir- ; '
ing why their maritime exertions here were so ; ;
feeble : •" you know that alraoll all our sailors <
ate against us." 1 n
What f«rt of harmony of operations at fca , I
between France and Spain is lo be anticipa- j
ted, may be judged from the well known cir
cumstance, that many of the Spanish (hips
are commanded by French emigrants, and
when a Spanish squadron lately put into the
harbor of Toulon, some of those officers were
arretted, imprisoned, and with difficulty re
scued by the Spanish admiral from the muni
cipal adminillration of the place.
In this country, the conviftion, as far as
I can judge, is universal, that they have much
to loose and nothing to gain, by a difference
with the United States. Our commerce and
our payments are almost the only resources,
the enjoyment of which is yet left them. In
my ejsnverfations with their merchants, and
even with .members of their government, they
freely acknowledge this, though they as free
ly fay, they fear that they should be forced
to follow whatever France should dittate to
them, and this is unquestionably true. An
intelligent and considerable merchant of Rot
terdam told me, a few days ago, that he was
glad the French government had determined
to intercept our trade with England, because
it would eflentially injure Great-Britain, and
mud be excused by reasons of (late. I asked
him, what he thought would be the conse
quence of an embargo of fix months laid by
the American government ? " It would
bring ns all," (aid he, " English, French
and eurfelves to your terms, but the Ameri.
can government cannot carry it through,"
At O'Ellers's Hotel.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining ;
On Monday Evening, May 19th, at 8 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
The efledU of Ambition «nd Guiit, consider
ed, traced and exemplified ill the charaiter of
MACB E T H ;
With a recitation of the whole charaiSer,
and moral and critical observations on the cha
rafter and the author.
> Tickets (halfa dollar each) tobe h'?d of Mr.
Poulfon, at the Library, ind at the Bar of
O'Ellers' Hotel.
Do&or Perkins
INFORMS the citizens of Philadelphia, that he
has taken lodgings for a few days at the sign of
the Indian Queen, south Fourth-Hreet. He will
be happy t0 wait on those who wiih* to fatisfy
themselves of the efficacy of his
Patent Metallic Points;
And will opeiate gratis for the relief of the poor
at his lodgings, where he has for falc the iaOrv
mentt, with the neceuary inllru&iorjs for utifig
them.
1 May 29. dtf
" *" "
1 For sale, or to be let,
| A new three Jlory brick bouse.
AT the Merchants' CofFee-houfc, on Friday
next, the 2d of June, at 8 o'clock is the
evening, will be lold by public vendue, a genteel
• three story house. It is pleasantly situated on the
p south fide of Arch-street, thefouith house above
Fourth-street. It may be viewed any time before
the sale. Terms arc one fourth iu approved notes
» at>6o days, and the remainder in seven years on
, l'ecurity and intercft annually. If not fold it will
; be put up to be let on a leafc of seven years. Im
j mediate poffeflion may be given. Further parti
culars will be made known at the time of sale, by
r Richard Footman & Co.
r jiußioneers.
May 29. djt
Jizekiel Hall
HAS removed his Compting Room to Bright'*
Wharf, where he has for file
24 hogftieads Cod Fifli.
A Jiore to let,
Ir Water-Greet, between Market and Arch-flreets.
May »9- 6p
; Dutch Gunpowder.
r A quantity of the best Dutch Gunp«wder for
sale by Samuel Breek, jun. No. 89, south Third
? street.
1 May 27. , eo6t
| For Sale,
| By Samuel Brrck, jun, at his Coropting-houfe, N*,
89, South Third-flr.-et,
/i quantity of the ie/l
Boston me>» Beef in whole and half barrels
fit for ftip'suie
Do. Pork do.
f A quantity of Sherry Wire*
A few Pipes Oil Proof 2iai.ily, juil landed
8 from Bordeaux
ChocoUtein Baits
' Rice, Cotton, Cafiile Srai, and
' Four or five Bales large O; ai ge Peels, &c.
May 17- ««it
Valuable Bocks.
/.new importation, from London, jull received,
and now opening and felling by J. Ok'.lROD, No.
41, Chefitit-ftrte:.
March 19. ro;p
Lailson's Circus,
South Fifth-St reft.
To-ir.arfow, Tucfjay, jr-th May, a Reprefenta
\ tion of new and various
F.qiieftrian Exercises,
A cd other Stage Performance!, of which
l M will fee.pirm i« the bills of the **ay.
l'°r Sale or Charter,
" The Sc. homer
Fair American,
Virginia built—burthen about jor barrels flour
two years oh?—and can be Tent to Tea immediate y.
Thomas & JoJhua Fi/her,
No. j, liock-ftrect.
May 19. dr,v
Southwark Printing-office,
No. 294, South Srcond-Jlreet.
IF encouraged, Timothy Mnuntford, will pub-
H(h from Ais office, a newfpapcr, entitled, Tie
Soutbtvarl Ga?.rt!e, anr( Philadelphia Rsgijlcn the u
tilry of which, no one can doubt of who confidcrs
the diftar.ee between this and other offices.
He will fend papers on the morning of every
Thursday and Saturday, to such places as hi» sub
scribers lhall direift.
The price of this Gazette will be Four Pollers
per year, payable as follows: One dollar when
called for—one dolUr at the expiration of fix
months—and one dollnr at the end of every fu'j.it
quent term of three months.
Literary efTays wiil be gladly received and in
ferred at the ufilal rates.
£5" Apply to William Robinson,jtrn. Efijuire,
at his house in front of the office, who vyill receive
iubfeription*.
Subscriptions will also be received by the follow
in? eentlcmen, viz. MefT. Yung, Mills ts* Sen,
Thomas DobJbr. t jcht Ornrod, IV; I Hum IV li r ea£
irard, and iutnutl Richardtt, Merchants* Cofiit
hoUfe
May 19- 3peo.
WASHINGIVN LU'STiikT, j\„. U.
List of Prizes and Blanks.
93th Day's Drawing, May tj.
No. Dols. Ao. Dols. I\'o. Doh. No. Dolt.
91 11665 24.580 10 39848
486 11210 647 913
540 446 726 40 40964 10
1123 815 25435 41117
101 996 10 26089 201
280 10 13168 768 3,2
to; 195 10 18132 427
2776 10 259 10 512 10 589
847 10 14858 601 777
3297 10 15216 610 790
455 805 ro 29588 42089 10
460 20 959 10 30556 235
677 16797 828 10 391
4139 10 91* 968 485 10
245 17088 31879 10 43158
300 10 089 32074 10 187
366 io 212 331 10 433
5'34 427 585 470
S°3 9°B 955 44304 10
®7» 935 33800 10 109
921 18107 991 45245 ,
6201 734 34192 447
234 771 20 615 803
414 19405 10 36409 10 853
49* 499 566 , 46189
527 504 20 621 243 10
7109 806 37050 10 494 10
301 10 888 405 xo 47216 10
479 985 511 189
735 987 603 10 311
745 20025 631 514
8013 10 948 38000 910
9293 41403 r 033 10 45.C91
682 809 10 162 667 io
746 10 947 396 10 949
1C027 996 39028 10 498,56
469 13 42235 10 529 20
11042 10 884 782
91ft day's Drawing—May 15.
IJ 9 '5154 3°749 38829 to
1240 5 6 7 7 gj IO 39387
4=73 868 10 31613 969
5 2 35 16158 654 40113 10
352 470 876 10 194
6263 10 18570 »o 896 297
432 10 19410 3!06t 41041 10
377 20667 437 084 25
456 21255 403 285 50
"783 454 10 529 839
7*77 23145 £4B ro 42-41
343 271 33047 25 933
4'6 24'66 10 179 43075
I r8 9 498 10 34052 10 440.19 10
419 25970 10 159 10 69
573 10 46167 35510 10 164 10
11175 367 631 10 . 940
50S 574 675 io 45091
831 762 896 435
12604 864 36364 10 461
767 47490 10 374 10 907 10
13171 825 10 37017 911
; 367 40 28393 148. 46155 45
376 10 29307 457 10 48637
597 645 447 49707 10
92d Day's Drawing—May 20.
113 12970 27053 37007
382 13028 421 10 963
402 284 10 447 10 38057
1490 10 417 594 091
524 513 to 735 2711
1 997 14064 838 10 852 5c
■ 2079 275 9C9 39389
*4« 355 18532 487 ic
: 869 799 10 49091 637
5 917 15000 40 205 40149
' 3124 053 786 414
1 611 10 16074 866 62g
888 6 53 916 895
4409 943 30174 10 194 '
r 687 10 18134 10 407 *3j7
784 46, 414 466
841 10 19144 422 10 624
942 348 10 866 685
5022 10 381 io 960 2466r
407 ro 10712 31316 695
451 50 802 SO 744 jci)
• 553 981 10 886 981
6624 41116 975 10 45183
7147 10 22061 10 32152 40 788
387 619 40 338 46034
947 jo 43165 461 C4I
i. 975 3°6 66 5 790
8638 874 33297 1981
9217 972 10 320 470 c,
681 24407 10 598 10 184
r 10881 10 507 10 837 866
97' 764 10 34438 10 931
11011 45165 6*5 10 , 45833
* c£ 4 to 179 3514» 644
650 10 £34 455 10 49040
12098 10 16476 376 181
463 347 10 791
■ A few hhds. N. £. Rum.
Of a SUPERIOR QUALITY,
HYSON ")
YOUNG HYSON ( T £ A S, m quarter chea-
And IMPERIAL 3
»o» s*t.i »r
A. Marple & Israel W. Morris,
No. 60 Dock-Art et.
I May 22 mw&f9timportant Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, F
And for Sale
At the Office of the £d tor o'.the Oaiet* of the
United Statu, M
No. 119 CHefiiui-Sweel, Ul
ONI »OLLA* AND TITTt CIMtSJ C.
A FKW COFIES OF THE tl
Receipts and Expenditures -
OF THE UNITED STATES, ,
For the Year 1795, (n
Being the I .ATIIT Period to which an account
can be made up.
February aa« *•
A Quantity of Braridv,
FIRST Jc id proof,
Gin, nf 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in nh<ls
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Qlafs Tumblers, in pinta and half-pints <
Window Olafs, in boxes, of different tiles
Hazlenntt, inftcks '
Whiting
Copperat ( inhhd ,
Whi'e Lead C
*J: Spanish Brown >
For Sale bv
PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 $'
SW A N N'S •
Riding Schoh "orfe Academy t*f Infirmary,
Adioioiog (he Public Square. Market Stre«.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hii (incere thanks tothofe by J
whom he h«i been employed, during hij refideriee in
t!\ii City, and flatters hirefelf that the success of his
efforts, in the numerous, ohftinate and dangerous dif
ea.'es in Hotfes, in which he has been confuted, to
gether with his moderate charges, will secure iheir !
I Jure favors and recommendation. j
He now begs leave to inform them and the public
at Urge that bis spacious and commodious premises,
erected for the purpofts above described are open for
Ihe reception of pupils of either fen, who wifhlo be
inltrpited in the Art of Hiding, and the right method
oi governing their horses, so as to ride them wuh
rale elegance, and fafety—their horses will be care
fully and cxpediiioufly broke, forevery purpofe.ar.d
piade obedient to he will of the riders ; the nauir9||
powers which are shut up in them, will be unfolded
by art, calling fcrth uniformity of motion, and giving
to that noble animal all thole beautiet of a&ion which
providence has so bountilully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every diforderto which the
fcorle u liable will be treated according to the rulea of
art, confirmed by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above institution has never been
oof lioned, that it has long been wanted in this city,
cverv gentleman's stud willmanifeft, and T. Sw a »h
os the ftrft eftshliflier of theveterenaryart.folicits and
lelws upon the fuppoit of that public (which he is
ever aaxious in serving) to enable him to bring it to
terlfectton, The idea of a fubfcriptiin for that pur
pofc has bceu hinted by fevrralgentleman, who with
10 promote the inftituttcn- the amount of earh fub
fcrip ion to bercturned byfervices in any of the de
partmental he pro.fcfies, agreeable to the rate of charges
Stated in bis hand bill. Suchfubfcription is now ri
pen, and the hgnslurci of many rWpefiablegerttlemen
already obtained. He ttierefore informs h<« friends
and fu h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he 1. s not
the honor of being known, that he shall in a few
days tskrihe liberty of waiting upon them and solici
ting their support and protection.
N. B, Hoi 6es are properly prepared for thnfe La
diesand Gen'.ieuienwho wilhto be inlirufled.
Nov. y tth&f.
Advertisement.
To be soli I ul pi ivate fait,
A LIKELY strong bay HOiiSE, 5 years
old, fit for the saddle Also, a likely full
blooded MAKE, 4 years old, runs well, and is
no* fit for the path— hey are lately from Vir
jinii, and may be seen at the ftab'cs of James
M«Ca*ley, No. 45 Cherry alley. Awy per
son defirousto buy either or both, mull apply
to the owr.er, at dr. Valley's corner cf Cherry
alley and Fourth-street.
MJ.y li. 3*
Lancader, Harrijburgb, Carlijle,
Soippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
public are requeued to take notice, that
A the partnerlhip which has far some time fub
fiiled between Matnias Slough of Laocafler, and
William Geer, is now dirtbk-cd. hut, not as M.
Slough infmuatesto the public without just can ft-;
as will more fully appear by a letter 011 the fub
jetft from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necelTary. Any gentleman who wiflies to be
more cnrcumflantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
The perulal »r M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether cr not W.
■Geer is noi perfe&ly juflifiabie in attaching him
ft-lf to any other pcrfon iu the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, cr any other "place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer 011 the firft effort in
this bufinef;, \f illiam Geer, in conjunction with
Meffr's. Reily, Weed and Witmcr, is determined
to profecutc arid carry it on, with evory care, at
tention and Jifpatch that a zCal to oblige the pub
lic can pofiibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the pafiage fefe and commodious, inform
thof« wnu wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaftec, Harrilburg,
Chrlifle and Shippcnfburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommodation ol the public,
a Stage will start every Wedtiefday from the boute
of Samuel F.lder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return front theace and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that paGengcrs destined for
Lancafler or Philadelphia, may proceed 001 Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancafler, Jan. 27, 1 797-
N. B. This Line ef Stages starts from th*
house of William Ferrae, in Lancafler, on every
Tncfday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wcdnef
diy morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenlburg, and returns
from thence on every Tharfday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. nnvf
GOLD JtND SILI'ER
bullion.
<-pHE highest price in ready money will be gi-
X »en ior goW cr Giver bnllloc, oid gold cr
ftlver, or gold dull, at No. 2;, North Seventh
flreet.
April ao aaw6w
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna baufages,
Of a superior quality, t» he Sold at No.
199, S Ftout-SilKt.
Apsil 10, ootf
THE holders of Roi«: St .fiU and John Ki
ckolfan's noses and acceptances, depoftted a'
collateral fecurhiesfor the engagements of Edward
Fox and'JamesGrecnleaf, are rcquellcd to
TAKE NOTICE
That the fubferibers, at the rcqucfl and by the
authority of the holders of near r.iuc tenths of the
amount of the papor above alluded to, hive receiv
ed from George Simpfon, EAj an aflignmcnt of the
trufl under which the said notc< and acr.-ptances
are fccurcd, together with all the deeds and obli
gationsthereunto attached—therefore any applica
tion tor sale of any part of fa d propcrtyis to be 1
| made to THOSI AS W-FRANCIS,
HENRY PRATT, 1 1
JOHN MII.LEP, jun.
JOHN ASHX-EY, g
JACOB BAKER.
March a. f
JNoticc.
April yd. 1797- a
THE Managers of the Canal Lottery, No. |
11, an aountr to the public, that the a
drawing will positively commence on the twen- c
ty-ninth of May next. Tickets to be had of t
either of the managers, and at the Canal Office. ]
Wm. MOORE SMITH, Sec'y. ]
April 3 mth,t29thM
A New Work.
PROPOSALS |
tot printing and publifliing, by fubfeription, The i
Hiflory of Penniylvania,
IN North-Amtrica, from the original institution and (
settlement of that province, under the firft propn- .
ctor and governor, William Penn, in 1681, till (
after the year 174 a; with
AN INTRODUCTION
Refpefting the Life of w. PENN,
Prior to the grant of that Province, and the reli- '
pious Society of the people called Quakers; with the 1
FIRST RISE of the NEICH BO RING COLONIES,
m»re particularly of WEST-NEW-JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DELA
WARE. .
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general state, in which it flourilhed,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The
whole including a varietv of things, ufeful and in
teresting to be known, refpc&ing that country inearly
time, &c. With an appendix-
Written principally betweenthe years 1776'afid 1780,
By Robert Proud.
14 Pulchrumeji btntjaccrc reipuslicu>, ttiam benedicerc
hetud abjutdurn ejl t vci pace vel bcllo tlarum fieri licet.*'
sal. Catalin.
" Stdcum plerique arhitrentur res lellkas majores ejfe
ouam uibanas, miuuendacH hue opinio. 11
y ' Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law.)
" WILLI AM PENN, the great legifiator of the
Quakers, (in Pennfylv nia) had the success of a con
queror. in eibbiifhing and defending hit colony, a
mong lavage tribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodnels of the moll benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubjefts as his own children ; and the tender
. ness of an universal lather, who opened his arms to
| all mankind without diftinftionoi feft or party. In
his Republic it was not bis religious creed, but per
for.al merit, that entitled every member ot society to
the protection and emolument of the State "
EJfayon Toleration, by Arthur O'Leary.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two o&avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in (hecp and
calf, for the choice ot the fubferibers; on paper fimi
-5 lar to that of the conditions, as publijkei in thcSubJcrip
-1 tion papers.
11, The head of William Penn, handsomely en
-3 graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
(ketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
s second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollar*
r and an half in Ihecp, and five dollars in calf;—one
. dollar to be paid at the time of fubferibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firft volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be ®ut to press and finifhed with
} all conven ent expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fen, jun. Printer, &o. 8o x Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftrcet ; by lfaac Col
t lins Printer, and JMeph James, Merchant, New
- York; by John P. Fleafantsaad George W. Field,
d Morchants. Baltimorei and by other persons both
?. in town and country*
; February 18. tu&f
h To be fold or let,
And immediate pojfejfion given,
e A genteel two story Brick House ;
e Q ITUATE on the ur»per end of Broad-flreet, in
O the city of Burlington, with four rooms and
- an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
e whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court fc
> yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
lence, with a stable adjoining the yard. The
e whole property is in good order,
n For terms apply to the subscriber in Burlington,
h who will give a credi' for a coniiderable part of
d the purchase money if good security is given,
William Coxe, jun.
" May 17. lawtf
o William Haydon,
n Drawing Majler, from London /
c XT 7"HERE he studied several years under one
" VV of the tnofl emineat maflers in that sci
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen
at their refpeilive houfea. His terms are fix
'* dollars per month for attendarKe three times
per j likewise all kind of ornamental
c painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above
£ terms.
A line direfled to W. Haydon, No. 16, Pear
street, will be immediately attended to.
„ W. H. flatters himfelf his terras will be par
)r ticularly advantageous, where there are several
i- pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al
teration in his terms if there are two or three
to teach in one family.
May 9.
y This Day is Published,
BY Me(T* Dobfor, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Book fellers,
f- nee One Dollar and twenty-five cents.
lm Elegantly printed en (Voir paper 9 and Hot•
" Pr'M
By John 'l'hotrpfon,
A COMPAR VTIVh VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States; cxhib'tirgin Tables,
the prominent features of cseh Conftitutiou, and
;r claflir.g together their most important provisions,
1. under the several heads of admiuiftration; with
Notes and Observations.
By WII.UAM SMITH,
Of f uth Carolina,
L L. D. and rnenber of the Congrcfs of the
United Spates.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
'• N. B A few Copies printed en an iaf:rior pa
per, at 1-4»hs vf a dollar.
February 6 mwf
Imported in the Jiiip F 'tgou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street, ,
Hyson ,
Hyson Skin CtEAS »
Ycung Hyion {
Imperial J
A pril 20. >
To be Sold, 1
The thne of a Negro Man,
WHO has about (is yeari and au half to
serve. lie is honoft and ieber, a toler
ible waiter, andunderftands driving a carriage. '
For terms apply at No. 113, Souih Third
Street. .
May 25. eo(Uit- I
All persons who have any demands j
Againll the cftate of J6hn Finlay, deceased,
are requested to exhibit their accounts proper- (
ly atteltcd on or before the acth of May next — |
andthofe who are indebted to said estate are re
quelled to make immediate payment to either ot ]
ihe Subscribers.
April 26. «
Tranflationa.
MEMORIALS, advejrtifements, epistolary,
and (other writings in French and En
glish, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, A. M.
translator of Le Moniteur, L Obfervateur, Les
Quatre Fils Aymorts, L'Heroine Americain,
and many other French authors.
S. C. has been in the habit of compiling for
the most approved publications, & occasionally
attending where the hurry of bufiueis may re
quire his immediate -attendance.
Encouraged and afiifted by gentlemen of
abilities, he proposes publiftiing by fubferip
tion, a work in French and Englilh, by the
title of The American Spectator. The profpeil
us may be seen at his lodgings, No. 67, Areh-
Jlreet.
A pril 17. t
Benjamin & Jacob John/on,
No. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia,
HAVE just received bv the Connecticut and other
late arrivals irom Lis*rpool| a general ailbrt
ment ot well cholen
Dry Goods,
For the ensuing Scafon, for sale on the lowest terms
lor calh or the common credit
A large colle&ion of Books at their usually mo
derate prices.
4th month, 25th, 1797» tw&r4
To be fold at.Public Vendue,
r To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of O&ober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a considerable part, of
these lands) the tratt begins about 17 miles
> from Baltimore, within 4 few hundred yards
1 of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dif
" tance of about twenty-three miles from. Balti
-3 more, and liv on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tradl,
j some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grifs.
ALSO,
A traft of seven hundred acres of
r land, called Clover Farms, within five miles ps
e ißladenihurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby.of Bladenib'urgh, will Ihew
* this land to any person inclined to purchal'e.
e ALSO,
I A traft of land ©f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
d and a half o the President's house in the Fede
h ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpedl, fron which may be fcen the
city of Wafliington, Bladenfburgli, Alexandria
| C and a part of George.-town, and many miles
_ down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
|, by, of Bladenfburg, will alf.> (hew this land,
h A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money, ihe terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 W3m
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrafl of an atfl passed l#y the Legiftature of
; the state of Maryland 011 the 29th December,
n 1791, entitled, "An ait for ereifting a bridge
d over Potowmac river.
Ie •* And be it enafled, that the said directors or
rt any two of them fliall and may require any sum
d or futns of money in equal proportion from each
ie and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necessary for carrying on the building of said
n » bridge ; and after giving three months public
notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the direil
ors tti sue for and recover in the namo of the
company ftich unpaid requisition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time the fame (hould have
been paid: And the negleifl or refdlal to pay any
such requisition after public notice ihall have
been given at least for three mouths in all the
le newfpapersherein before enumerated, f.iall have
•- the effeft to forfeit all preceding payments made
n on the (hare or (hares lo negleifted or relufed to
ix he paid t9 the use and benefit of the company."
es 1 he above extract is published for the infor
al mation of Such of the stockholders as have not
'c complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they ate as follow: On the ift November,
lr 1795, ao dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollar* j an the aotli July, 1796, 40 dollars; on
r- the Ift September, 1; *6, 40 dollars, and on the
al ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
il- now given that after the expiration of the time
'c limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effeft against all delin
quents.
By order of the Direflors,
be WALTER SMITH, Trtafurer.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. iaw3tn
'■ Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second-street.
THICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale
1 —This Lottery will positively cenimeoce
drawing the 29th day of May next—Checkbooks
for registering and examination in this, the City
' 3 J of Wafliington, No. a, and Paterfon Lotteries,
now drawing, are kept—also information where
'J' Tickets in Wafliington, No. 2, and Pattcrfon may
he had—Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
lor sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as iJTued,
Tickftsin all the other Lotteries authorized by the
Lcpiflature of this state will be for sale.
be The lubfcribcr folic its the application of the pub
lic and his friends who v/ifll to fell bank flock, cer
t. tiUcates bills of exchange or notes, houses, land,
a- .or to obtain monev on deposit of property.
WILLIAM BL ACKUURN.
April $ • 2aw
TEAS,
A FEW (.hefts of Imperial, Hyson Shin ind ,
Souchong Teas of a superior quality for *
sale at the (lore of the fubferiber, the north- n
weft corner of Market and Third-llreets.
Patent Shot. r
ALSO,
A large CELLAR to be let at a very low rent.
Enquire as above of RICHARD WiSTAR.
April 29. ftu&tlum
— ii
For Sale, i
That ive!l known place, called V/iNDSGkitr's 1
tihv, c
ON Nefhirainy creek, 18 miles from Phili- '
ladelphia, on the New York post road, L
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the '
premises are a large two Itory stone hou:e occu- '
pied as a tavern, and a good one story stone kit- 3
chen, a large frame liable with a good threshing J
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of (
good water, and an excellent ice Iloufe. On
this place is a most elegant situation for a gentle- '
man's feat,commanding a view of the Nelham- '
iny to its junflion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey (hor«. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the budge.
For terms apply to the SBbferiber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
May 34- awwtf.
TO BE SOLD,
And possession given immuiiately,
A Lot of Land j
SITUATED in Mount-Holly, in the county
of Burlington, in Ncw-Jeriey, lately occu
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which arj
an excellent brick house, two flories high, with
four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good
stable, carriage house and other buildings. The
situation is valuable for business of any kind, and
at leall equal to any other in the town.
The terms of payment will be made easy to
the purchaser. Apply to William Roffell, Esq.
uire, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in Mount-Hollyj or to the Subferiber, in the city
of Burlington.
JOSEPH M>ILVAINE.
Burlington, 47th April May S—J3W5 —J3W
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Fcpper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Bttrton Me
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-caflc or gallon —suitable
for exportation or home confumption —
For Salt by
John Hawerth.
No. 98 south Front street.
May 18 th4w
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house ao,ooo dollars,
& calh 30,000, are 50,800
1 ditto 15,000 & call* a,5,00» 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 ao,oeo
: 1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 to,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 calh prize of 10,000
ado. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
aoo do. 50 10,oe®
i 400 do. »5 " * 10,000
1,000 do. a® - ao,ooo
; 15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
a 16,739 Prizes.
5 33,161 Blanks.
jc,ooo Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
1 N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity ol Tickets, the prize of 40,00p dollars will be
the lot drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
_ but oni :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing; will
f be received I'oi any number not less than 30 tick
, ets.
e This Lattery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be creiled in the City of
r Wafliington—Two beautiful designs are Already
[! lelefled for the entire fronts on two of the public
I, fquarcs; from these drawings it ispropofed tocreA
e twocentreand 'our corner buildings, as focnaspof
j fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
c when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fclieme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
s ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
e be erccled within the city of Wafliington.
f The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of t!ie
e Prizes, are held by the President and two Dired
e ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
e more than half the amount of the lottery,
e SAMUEL tiLODGET.
o Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colsm
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
- Gilman, Boston ; of JohD Hopkins, Richmond ;
it and of Richard WeUs, Cooper's Ferry,
e mwf
J "
° For Sale,
e At the Office of the Gazette of the United
j 3 States, No. 119, Chel'nut-ftreet,
c The la/i Report of the late Secretary
-- of the Treasury ; being a brief history of tHe
d state of financial i-oncerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpedling the welteni in
furrc<slion : Containing many faiils and cir
cumftauces no where else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our minister in France. 37 j-i cenis.
An Account of the Receipts and
| e Expenditures of the United States for the year
:e 1795-
ts A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
y had lo complete setts.
*- D'lvernois' account of the Revc
c lution in Geneva. 1 a 1-2 cents.
April 3. §
ie Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
Pinckney.
d, A few copies of the above intsrsSing paper,
may be had at the «{£ce of the Cazctte cX the U
nitcdStatci.
May §
T0 BE SOLD,
A valuable three (lory Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it Hands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Gf.forth-ftreet. The house is about 50
feet in front on Lodgfcalley, and about 42 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 41 feet on Goforth
ftreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dock-llreet at the
horfc market. The house confift9 of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire plaees, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, tvro parlours and a large kit
chen, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to tht eastward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame stable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftreet. The premifrs now rertt for
|X;.3>B per annum. To be fold clear of all in*
cumbrances.
For terms apply to 'John Clement StocLtr>
April to 3 Jwt f
Maurice Moynihari*
AV 81, Nerth Secondjlreet,
A few doors above Arch-flreet,
INFORMS bis friend* and the public, that he ha»
for wholcfole or retail, on the leweft tertn&, a
affortment ©f Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and fl»w< red quart, pint, half pint,
gill and half gill do. exa.& measures, decanters and
wine glaffcs ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and chi-a in sets and separate ; pocket
bottles: Schuyilcill and Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the shortest no
ticc.
May 11. d "
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
May \JI, 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrears for any sums due on their
refpeitive fliares, are requeflcd to pay the
fame.
WILLIAM GOVETT, Trcafurer.
10 ■ ni4W
To be fold at private sale,
A TWO (lory dwelling house and let of ground
in the city of Burlington, state of New-J ;r
---fey, in a healthy and pleafaht situation. Th»
house is of brick,containing four good sized rooms,
with a convenient kitchen and cellar. The lot,
on which is a stable, &c. contains about an acre of
land of the best quality, with a frent fufficicnt to
admit two 01 three large houses, independent of
that part at present occupied by the ho jfe.
For further particulars enquire of }ofcph M'll
vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or Joseph Reed, Na.
214, High-street, Philadelphia.
May l». cotvr
This Day i» publiftied,
By TH 0M AS DOBS ON,
At the Stone House, No. 41 south Second-ftrcet,
Price 37 i-» cents,
1 wo Leffures on Combujlion.
QUpplementary to a courfeof L flurei on CI 1E-
U MISTRY ; containing an Examination of Br.
' Priestley's Confederations on the Do>slrinc of Pldo
giflon, and the accompofition of Water,
By JOHN MACLEAN,
' Profcffor of Mathematics and NatLral Philosophy
in the College of New-Jersey. 1
' May 2 4 nitrfjp
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every stage o£
that disease, without tile use of mercury or
j restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and fimplc. oa
, application at No. 113, Chefnut-ftrect, opposite
5 the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
-1 ter-ftreet, bttween Spruce and Pine-flaects, where
j he has opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
pledges himfelf, that nofylleni o£ cure (however
specious) can be effcflual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of practice for thefc tivo
3 centuriespaft, and united experience affirms, that
" any substitute for it i» but nugatory, and any mode
* of practice to the contrary mutt be futile and de
e ceptious.
r Nevertheless, he undertakes, however cctripli
cated the cafe, to effefl; a cure without inconre
r nience or injury to the patient's conflitution, and
' intime not generally experienced or expedled.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
ftreet, from the hour of niue o'clock in the mom
■ ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
* ing uutil seven; but any o-her time at his dwelling
1 house, in Chefnut-ftreet.
May 16. dtf
~ Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
1 \T OTICE is hereby given to the Shareholrf
_L\ ers, that a further afieflment of Sfteen
f dollars levied on each share, payable in the
□ following inttalments —viz.
One quarter immediately.
; One qnarteron tile jft of June.
One quarter ou the ift September,
t One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trca
furer of the Company at the Company's Office,
- No. J3 north Fourth street, agreeably 10 the
r times above mentioned ; and they are further
: informed that on their iKgleflmg to pay the
fame as above directed, the several forfeitures
direfled by the Conflitution, wtlll be exiled
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAR ACHE,
, Treafitrcr.
May 15 i tin
y Gold and Silver Watches,'
e an excellent quality, .-and neat fafhionabir
* Gold Chains, Seals and Keys, Kight Day
2 Clock? and Time Pieces, fafhionable Ste£l and Gilt
Chains, 3cp. &c. for Sale by
_ JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. 38. 3. ad t.
gjT Clocks and Watches of all kinds carefully
repaired.
* May 19. tuef.& fa. $w
' For Sale,
r At this Office,
A'o. 119 Chefnut jlriel,
L A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
- of the Scr.its, on the fubjeft of the
GEORGIA LANBS.
March 13 §
Caution.
THE Public a.e heieby forewarned againfl
ftcp-daughter of the Subl'crib
er, and her mother, his second wife. Repeated
mifcondi.fl compels him to forbid any perfonto
give them credit on his account, is he will pjy
. no debts of their ccntra«fting after this date.
LUNO BROWN.
..Philadelphia, May 16, IJO7 18—^thjt