of tije and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1639 j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
£ Forenoon —Edward Fox, No- j6,
fout!l Front-street,
Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
(' South Front-street.
(' Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
j Auflion, No. 73 south l'ront-ftreet.
I y i Afternoon—William, Shiorwn, No.
183 High-street.
H r ri*,rd a » i Atttcaoott—Peter 3eilfb»i-N»i*94;'
Heine/day y s outh Third-ftr^t,
tri, /•/, i Forenocn— Edward Fox.
. jurjaay | Afternoon—JoUo ConseHy.
■fr v \ Forenoon—William Shannon.
"•ay Afternoon—John ConneHy.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benton.
To be fold at the Merchant's Cof
fee-Houfe,
ON wednesday the 15th of December at 7 o'
clock in the evening, one certain bond or I
obligation dated July li, 17951 signed by John i
Love of Alexandria For himfelf, Jofiah Watson ;
and Samuel Love Cor £bt 10 Virginia currency,
payable on the 3 ift of OiSlober last paft,to Stock
ley Donelfon or his assigns—which Bond the
laid Donelfon assigned to James Grant, under
whose power of attorney this sale will be made.
F»r further particulars appl) to the fubferibers.
' FOOTMAN and Co. Auilioneers.
Nnv. 28. dtijthd
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before dlfpofed of at private sale)
ON Monday the ftrltdayof January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee Houfc, in Philadelphia, Twenty-Six Thousand
■Seven Hupdfed and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
SU'e of New-York, beiween the northern bounds
of Pennfytvania and the Su'quehanna, row, or late
in the town(hips of Haradcn and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. * One foarth of the purckafc
money t# be paid at the time of sale ; for the residue
credit of one, two and three months, will be given,
on in.-ereft and good leturity.
D c 4. , 3tawtS.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If net before disposed of at private sale)
ON Monday the firft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun
dred and Thiny-Nine acres of LAND in Green
county, Commonwealth as Pennfylvania,on tha Wa
ters o( Fish and Wheeling Creek, and ten Mile Run.
Thefc lands are fertile, well timbered and abound in
coal V they were [fold ten years ago for ss. per acre,
patented eaily in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
tented in 179 a ; the greatest part of them were sur
veyed in 1783.
This traft is between the Ohio and Monongahela,
very convenient to water earriage—about 19 miles from
tb* town of Wathington, and from 14 to 16 from the
villages of Greenlburgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the purchase money is to be paid at the time of
sale ; for the iefi<lue a credit of one, two, and three
month* will be given, on interest and good security.
Dec, t. <3'awtJ
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, has seven years yet
to fcr*e ; h« isa:i excellent hoafe servant, a&ivz
andheal'jiy. Enquire of the Printer.
De«emVer 1. dl-fr
T0 Gentlemen who intend J pending
the Winter in the City.
RdOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. ' Qcl.a?.—dtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand rtfpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during folir years refidente in
Philadelphia-, and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a superior arrangemsnt for
the mere convenient accommodation of her
fcholar»E branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mafttrs excelling in their
refpe<£live profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- Jirafrf
The situation is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extenfivi garden andlot
of ground adjoining the house.
This Day Publilhed,
Attd to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, aorner of
Second anil Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
Qhfervations on certain Documents
Containod in No.V and VI of
«« The History of the Unjted States for
the year 1796,"
Inwhieh the charg* of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is EULLY
REFUTED.
ITK *T TEN BT HIMSELF.
Th»s publication presents a concise flatement
of the base means prailifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chandlers of thoft
psrfonswho are confideredas hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Melfrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
jeiS of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters fram James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between ,him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiraoy on the part
of the latter and his aifociates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchafcra, for
cash. Ordersto be to Mr. Youn».
' '
Landing,
From on board the Clip Edward, at W».lnut
ftrcet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
•f a superior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews.
November eot^
• "" TO BE SOLD,
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country,
That three story Brick House,
No. 157, north Third ftr«et. Apply at theef
fice of this Gazette. !>•*■ a,'- w&»4W.
PHIL AD E L P'H 1A : SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 9, 1797
For Londonderry,
The American Ship
BOSTON PACKET,
pffioffqp'jgg - Coppertmwait, Mafttr,
lying at Mifflin's Wharf,
near Yine-llreet—Has elegant accommodations for
passengers—will fail, weather permitting, on or
about the ioth inft. having all her cargo engaged
ready tojfo on >«»■*.•. torpafUge only, apply so
Smith <jf Ridgway,
No 4, North Wattr fttreet.or to
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
No. 5, South Water ftrcet.
December I §lot
tor Amsterdam,
EDWARD,
- James Wickham, Majier,
EXPECTED to fail in a few days, having two
i thirds of her cargo already engaged, and near,
ly on board. For Freight or Passage, apply to
the Mafttr on board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to
John Donnaldfon,
No. 12, Walnut-street.
novqfnberaß. dßt
Jb'or , Amsterdam,
The Ship
FARMER,
Rtf J OHN M'CaixoM, Master;
fail in a few days, the
greater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, app!/ to the mailer on board, at Walnut- ■
flrect wharf, or to
JOHN 'SAVAGE.
Who it Landing, OJt flf the said Ship, from Bour
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter casks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,
Sauterne, £ Wiaes in cases
Lunille, S
Prunes in boxes
november 14. $
For Liverpool,
The copper boltorjied Ship
Hamburg Packet,
J Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of her
XX cargo being ready to go on
board, is expeflcd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN & Co.
November 12. §
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE
5 U K E r t
<•?!} ) w,tUAM WaiTTiw, Matter.
v£i" s&isH ' a strong good vessel, about two
hundred tens, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or paf
faee, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenbergtr's vobarf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred toni.
nov 'B. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
the ship
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with excellent
accommodations for
Sails on the ioth of December. PDr Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS 15* SIMSON.
Who have to dispose of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18.
For Hamburgh.
J**" 5 - The Brig MARY,
Petir York, mailer,
t Lying at Ruffel's wharf, near Pine
J llreet, is now ready to take in a
5- Cargo, and will fail in tan days.
For Freight, or Passage, apply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
November 16.
' Rund-le & Leech,
Have jufl. received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut-street,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. best house CO A LS
Queens' WARE in cases, afTorted
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
THFY HAVE ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER,
THS ® HI *
30i§8 PEGGY,
Burthen 21J tons, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to sea with little expenceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILLIAM,
Burthen ioi tons,
november 16. ___
For Sale or Charter,
Brothers,
Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent single dcck'd burthen about
I&OO barrels —not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to 'He mailer
on board, or to
Jofepb Anthony Ss* Co.
nor. ' diw.
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Triends, Dan
iel Crawley, Mailer,
80 and > T a , na [ ca RUM,
12 pipes y J 1
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
November 9. §
By John Fen no, N.°- 119 Chefnut Street
Till SHIP
rOvCOM MERCK,
Captain Rlcharo WaistjoaT,
vES&g&Mttr From Liverpool is no-.v ilifclurgiao
at Morris's wharf, near the lirawbrijge, where
owners of goods oc freight, will please fpeedity tb
feud their permits. Jaid vrffel will dire Sly after,
take in freight an veryloW\«rm. f<i? Boflon. Ap
p!y t»
ljuaC Harvsys, jien.
No. s,'South Water Street.
A few tons of flone, or fanu ballail wanted.—
Apply as above. ,
november Slot.
For bale or Charter,
Sml good hope,
Will carry about iico barrel®,and
> ' 9 to ta^ce a car g°* or teruis
* apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Second-llreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7, dtf.
Port and Madeira Wine 5
Now Landing,
By /Kip Edward, from Madeira, and Eetfey and
P e gg) > * rs ' Jl Oporto, in Pipes and Hogfteads,
For fate by
PETER BLIGHT.
V.'HO ALSO OFFfcRS FOR SALE,
T"be Sh ip
amii r,
fej • Foot thousand barrels burthan,
S£»in excellent oidtr —ready to take;
in a cargo—about three fears old.
likewisv,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready aifo to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Jufl landed from the above vessels at South flreet
wharf. eoim. Nov. i.
Philip Nicklin £9° Co.
HAfE FOR SALE,
At their Stokes on Walnut street Wharf,
Havannah Sugars, white andbrown
IS hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea,in quartersand eighths of chests
QuickClver in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hoglheads
Teneriffe Wine in pipes
Old led Port Wine in hogsheads
Sail Canvass, aOorted, No. I to t
8 cases of Mancheller Goods,confiding of Dimities,
Muflinets, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c.
too crates Queens' Ware, afTorted
Nails, afTorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in calks
A quantity of writing Slates, Hate Ink Stands, &c.
ICO quarter calks Gun Powder
Ibey bate also for SALE or CHARTER,
The /hip MOLLY, burtben 340 ton«, a
good vessel, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for sea in 1 few days.
The whole of the above vessels to be seen at
Walnnt street Wharf. 5 " w IC
BEEF.
Prime Beef, fit for India voyages, for sale by
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, High-street.
Also, about fifteen hundred weight of Bees-
Wax. dtf Nov. 15, 1797-
REMOVAL.
' Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has remove*! his Store of China, Glais, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor of his former cuftonlers.
N. 8. Crates put up with care at the {horteft
notice. 1
november %- dtf
NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo as the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Bitavia.
About 300 tons firfl quality Java Coffee (the
whole having been fele&ed)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniflers and bags
10 legures of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
for lalb nr
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Jufl landed from ship Amity, from Jamaica,
los hhds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 13. d6w
NOW LANDING,
From'on board the ship Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in^hhds.
Ditto in cases
SaUterne Wine in do.
For Sale, apply to
John Whitefide & Co.
No. 138, S arket-flreet.
Also, on hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few cases of Claret, of a superior quality,
november 29. §_
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL coiv».ience drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollar,, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at 7"en
bill. irf, where check books are kept lor reghter
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfoa Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moll of the Lotte
ries muKorifsd by law in any of the Statesof the
Union.
N. B. The tufinefs of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcountir.g Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. wi',l be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15 - §
Salisbury Efltate
THE Subfccibcr, proofing to contra** his bus*- 2
ness, offers this for sale, on moderate 1
ttfms. On «t are one Blair and Air Funiarf?, *
a complete Boveing Maclnnr, fincj a very griit J
Mill, with two pair of ft<>nes ; also a good For'gr, a-1 *
in perfeft as arc all the Water Works copneti
cd with thcle various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of casting Canuoh
for this State.—There are about two thoutand acre&
of Land, one half of which i> under wtxui, the oiiwr
very fine arable Land, producing ihe best Hay and
Palture. "The Cannon lately mannfa&ured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to*any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine gwns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on provtng. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of arms lying ,in the (fate
of Conne&icut, and only 30 miles from federal land *
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan- *■
tage that can result from a plenty of wafr iflfuing
from a large naturai pond, very near the Furnaae,
and which may be converted into a variei y of other
ufeful purpolies. The purchaser can br accommodat
ed with all the (lock and utensils, and have poffcflion
on or before the fir ft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, Sic. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. ]ofeph Aotnony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
thepremifes, or to the prop'ietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEII.SOM.
Dee. t. 3awtf
A farm for sale,
IN Perth Amboy in the state of New-Jersey,
of four hundred awes, including a proper
pfoportion of meadow, of arable and wood
land, and fait raarfh : There is on the pren<ifc«,
a poed apple orchard, and a variety of other
fruit trees, it is well-watered with springs and
brooks, it-is bounded on twn C<ie. wUH navi
gable waters and has a goo 4 mill site, its situa
tion u healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Ainbay and its
environs, and to the fined fiih and
oysters in their proper season, it abounds wit\
natural manure frem which, with the advanta
ges of the fait marsh by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of ltock, may at a small
expense, be enriched to a great degree and' ren
dered one of the: firft grazing farms in the state i
it is well calculated for a farmer or a gentle
man's feat, having several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be fold together or
divided, as may suit a purchaser, at private
sale, or if not f»ld, will b» set up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the house of Robert Rattttne, inn
keeper in Perth eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. Any perl'on inclining to purchase
may view the premises by application to John
or Mattbiai Hal/led at Perth Amboy, from
whom or from the Hon. "Jonathan Dayton, Esq.
speaker of the house of representatives of the
United. States now ill Philadelphia, from Mat
thias Williamfon, jun. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town further information may be
obtained,—and who are pofiefled of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797.
s—eodtißD5 —eodtißD
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two (lory House.
with the Lot on which it is ere&ed, situated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
' Village of Bordentown. The house is forty two
. feet i'rent, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
llrest, and extends with the fame breadth tohask
ftrtet. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, feparutcd from the former by*bacte 11-reet.
One third only of the purchase inaney will be re
. quired upon executing a deed, and lor the re
mainder, fnch credit will be given as the purchase
er mdycbufe This property will be fold fre«
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, reftdiug in Bordentown, near,
the premises, who will (hew the fame, or of
i PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, ne. 144, Market-ftrect.
t December a.
To be fold,;
t \ N ELESANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
£\. ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
' story btick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish trail lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particular* will
be made known upon application at the office of
> the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for talle and
1 elegance, (land unrivalled.
Drcemlier r. dtf
Real Eltate for
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si
tuation on Chester Creek, in Middleton
Townfliip, Delaware County, containing 1191
acres, upwards of 50 aires of which are wood
land, well timbured ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, utany more
acres can be made at a small expence. There are
on said premises, a good orchard of befl grafted
~ fruit, a house, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with stabling under, and a log tenemant on
'» one part of said place Any person inclining
to purchase, may view the premises by applying
to Wm. Pennbll, on said farm, and know the
terms by applying to Jonathan Pennell, in the
borough of Chefler.
November H. e °d
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Second-flreet,
HAVE received a supply of Seai'onable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. OiS 27. —4W
<•
James & Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and tha public, that they have removed their
(lore to No. 54, South FrontJtrat, next door to £d
h war d Fox's Au it ion Room, where they have at
lt this time for sale, a large an alfortment of
y European h? Eaji India Goods,
~ Many of which are jufl imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
'- Q<ft. »7-
j- All Perlons
c Having any demands aga ; nft the Eftete of the
C late Captain George Irwin, are requested to
d bring in their accounts pi operly attested, on or
S; before the fivft day of January next enfuirg
>f and thofewho are indebted to said estate are so
> licited to make immediate payment to
3AKAH IRWIN, Adijiiniftratrix.
ne-v. 19 1797.
The Subscriber inteijcJs to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Shore
in the Bank ol (he United .States, standing in Iht name
of A. B. No. 5004, dated July it, 1797, the fame
having been loil. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec.
ROSS & SIMS ON,
V H AVE FOR SALE,
"A few bales Baftas, Coflas, an<2
a quantity of Bengal GOT TON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, £tid
A parcel of fliip building-RED CEDAR.
Ofl. 17. J ■
Mrs. GRATTAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of the City, that (he proposes having
Four CONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Six Dollars each Sfltfcriber, for one Tdiet of
admittance during the season.
No Subscribers rickets transferable.
Two Dollars a single Ticket.
The Concert to begin at half pad fix, and the
Band to attend for the Ball at eight>— the expence
of which Mrs Grattan engages to discharge.
The Concerts will hegin as feon as the Band ar
rives from New York.
$pF Subfcriptioas received, and Tickets deliv
ered if No. 191, Market flreet.
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality mannfadlured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; ftelM or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer, ,
Ale and Cyder j Tauntoa and Burton Ale ;
La/idon Porter ; red, Port and Lilbon Wine,
i fuiuhle for exportation or heme consumption.
The highest pt ice given tor Mustard-Seed.
Also far/ate, A Quantity oF <.nJ
common Bailee, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fuitianj, Shawls,,&c, for (ale by
JOHN HA WORTH, •
. No. 98, south Front-ftrcet.
Nov. 17. m.&th.t.ij.
For Sale Jby ihe Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy
TeneriJJe Wine
Molajfes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duct and one hogjhead qf pa'vit
brn/hes.
N. (s* J. Frazer.
No. 15, Santh Front Street.
Nov. 7. dim-
IMPORTED
IN the fliip Aurora, from Hamburgh, and for
sale by the Subscriber.
Bed ticks, 8-4, 9-4, and 10-4.
A quantity of Tapes, No. 13 and 15.
And on Hand,
German black Ribbon, No. 3 and 4.
George Pennock.
novembgr ai law aw
Library Company of Philadelphia.
THE Members of the Library Company of
Philadelphia are hereby informed, that the Libra
ry will be open- ou Monday next, the 4th of De
cember, for the reception and delivery of books.
Those who to return the books, which
had been taken out previous to the 6rft of Septem
ber lafl, in the course of the ensuing week, will
be fined as the rules direct.
The Loganian Library
Will also be opened at th« fame 'itic, for the like
purposes.
N. B. A few copies of the catalogues of the
books belonging to these institutions may be had
at the Library.
Z. POULSON, j UN. Librurivn.
Library, noverober ;o
FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
young, strong, true fcq the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as moll in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Chefler county, ortto
Thomas Fijher,
No. 141, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
ii tbo. 1, * eodftr.
Yellow Fever and Peltilentiai
Diseases.
THIS DAY PUBLISHED, in one vol. ovjtavo.
By William Young, Reokfeller,
No. 52, Second flrec*, the corner of Chefnut street,
f Price, in boards ,871 1 Cents J
Neatly printed on fine medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles established in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correal some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly feleifled from the records of their pra&ice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Yates & Chas. Maclean.
' To yhich is subjoined, a Treatise on the a«Sion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indire<£\ debility
AndadilTertation onthe sources of Epidemicand i
Pestilential diseases; in which jsattemptedtoprove
' b r a numerous induilion of facjls, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain viciiitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of.
CjlcutM. '
nov. ar. 12f
' To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Lar.d,'
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
' seven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
: made to accommodate a large family, at a mode.
! .rate expeife, and pofTeffion had in a few weeks.
Part ®f the purchafe-raoaey being paid, a reason
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the-Priflftt.
oovember 3 B*wftf
\VOLVME XIINEW THEATRF,
Will open on MONDAY even'.ng next, Djc. ; J,
With a Comic Opera, called
ROBIN HOOD ;
Or, Sherwood Fore/l.
RF.tIDFKTS IN THE FOREST.
Robin Hood Mr Darley
Little John Mr Wigncll
Scarlet Mr Francis
Bowman Mr Warrell
Archers, Miflrs. I3liflVt,T.Wan<.ll, 13 often-,
Laffcrty, Sully &c.
Allen-a-Dr.le, Mr Warrell, jun.
■Stella Mils L'Eftrange
Shephcrdeiies, Mrs Harwootl, Mrs Dtictor,
Mil* Anderfon, &c.
VISITORS TO THE FOREST. ' J
Rutted in Mr Bernard
(Being his firft appearance in Philadelphia)
Friar Tuck Mr Warren
Ed"in Mr Marlhall
Ctorinda Mrs Warrell
Anette , Miss Milbouriie
Angelina Mrs Oldmixon
Wirh the original Overture, by l?au*ngar;cn. I'bc
rr(l of the Music atfd Accompaniments, conSpo
fed by Shield, with additional airs by Mr. Rei
• najrle
Tho which will be added, a CbMiDv, in two adts,
called,
THE LYAR.
Old Wilding, ■» - Mr. Warren
Ylong Wilding, - Mr. Bernard
Sir Junes Elliot, - Mr. Warrell, jr.
Papillion, - - - Mr. Mat'fhall
Servant, - - Mr.'F. Warrell
Miss Grantham, - Mrs. Francis
Mils Godfrey, • - Miss L'Eflrange
Kitty. - - - Mrs. Doftor.
Box, on? OnlUr ; Pit, tHre* quarters of a Dol
-1 tr ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
l doors of the Theatre will open at five,
»nd the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clock.
Ptaces for the Hoxes to he taken at the Office in
tV;e front of the Theatre, from IO till i o'clock,
a:id from 10 till 4 on the days of pcrf-ifnjance.
Tickets to be had at H. and Rict's book-flare,
No. and at the Office adjoieipg
the Theatre. VIVA T RS&SIZJUIGA !
JUST RECEIVED, ~
(via New-York)
itio NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
No »5, fauth Third flreet,
An cxtenfive and general aflbrtment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bell London mixt Pios Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Voj-fled Bindings, aflor-
Makenssie'sfuper,patent ted colours
v.-i>ite chapel N edle, Imperial, diaper, and
Nurs Thmad no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly assorted hite Edgings
I.isle do r.o. x,;o to 500, Black nd coloured Chi
regnlarlyafiiorced nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Slack fevvipg Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to lid
Coloured do. and Twill Velvet & pelon Sattins
Silk and cotttn Wires French Catubrick
Do do. Ribbands Scotch do.
•Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black brulh Feathers Buttons
And a compleat aCTortment of Gaods, suitable
to the pr-sent and approaching season, at reduced
prices D«c. 6. dtf
" rnlTslL B,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. 0* Co.
No. 8, Chilrut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
/.mongft which ar?,
Gurrahs Mamcodies
Baftas Sannls
Gu2z<nah* Tafida'Collates
Guzzifst Emcrtics
Blue Cloths Calico s
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongil them are a great proportion of the
msnufa'dturcs of Patna..
Decemb-r I, §
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt.yYiASTii, from Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in bafcet9 of 11 bottles each,
".Vhite and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. ' do. Silk do.
A fsw pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sals by
JAMES I ATIMER, jun.
7lvSouth Wharr«s.
Who hai also for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. ?. d2w
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. O. M. De La GRANGE,
_Np. lie Walnut-street, vs.
INFORMS those who wilh to recur to the only
means of becoming per ft-(3 in the Freheh Lan
guage,that he has jutt opened his Library, con
fitting of upwards of 1150 volumes, the bed cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftrudlion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may he seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. n. All translations from and into the French,
Engtilh and Spanifii Languages, execu:en wkh ac
curacy and dispatch. coim nov. 15.
~ PROPOSITION. 1
A handsome and roomy house, with a quanti- ]
ty of feood land, wi'hin a few miles of this city. |
A House in an eligible situation, and several
Lots in the eiiy.
A valuable body of I,and on the river Ohio,
yilfo, many tracSs of fine Lands (military
rights) lying near the Obio, on the Mi?mi and I
Sioto Rivers ,
Titles are all clear, and will be made with un- ,
txeeptiillable security.
A resident of this city is desirous of exchang
ing this property for Goods—Haft or Well India
would be peeterred.
If the specie value of those Lands at a dillance, ]
cannot be ascertained fatisfaflorily, they shall be (
rated at fuels a price as the purchaser may have it
at his option to return them at the fixed price with .
interelt, at tin expiration of twelve months. 1
Notice left with the Editor shall he attended to.
December 6. » I
"DANCING SCHOOL: 1
WILLIAM M'DQtJGALL preflnts his ;
mo# refpe.'lful compliments to his form- i
er employers and the citizens in general. a»d re- !
tutnf his moll grateful thanks, for the very (
tountifuLencouragemeut he lias expetienced for
these twenty-five years past, takes this opportu- {
nity of informing tbern, that-his fchoal is now
open, at his 1
Elegant Ball Room, 1
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ilreets. To begin at 10 in 'he morning 5
for young ladies, and 6in the evening l<si young /
gentlemen. , r
His firft Pra&icing Ball will be to-moirow p
evenings Saturdjy, the 9th inft. '!
Dec. 8. iawtf. t
Xi isoasCttr.
PHIL ABEL P HIA ,
SATURDAY EVENING, DE.CE M3F.R 9.
fy C 0 N G R E S S.
c . n HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
:ts
ell
FRIDAY DECEMBER 8.
Mr. Thatcher prefented-the petition,
n _ °f Daniel Sevvall, as the reprefentatrvc of
Parsons, praying to have two Loan
brought forward in proper time. Referred
to the Committee of the whole to whom was
r j referred the report of the Committee of
a y Claims pn the expediency or inexpediency
e „ of excepting a certain' proportion of claims
jU from the operation of the Aft of Limitati
-1 on -
M r^r - ; ColT moved, that the report of the
, n Committee of Commerce and Manufadlutes,
he made during the lift winter feflion, on the
0- petition of Pierre Joseph Flammend, in be
half of Louis le Guen, be referred to a
, _ Committee of the whole.—Agreed for Mon
day.
Mr. Sprigg moved, that the report of
a Seleft Committee 011 the petition of John
Carr, which appeared in the report of the
Committee of Revifal and Unfinifhed Bust
* ness, be referred to a Committee of the
whole. Agreed for Wednesday.
L _ Mr. T hatcher observed, that yesterday
there had been a resolution laid upon theta
>e ble by the gentleman from Vermont (Mr.
I Lyon) which he thought ought to be dis
posed of. It proposed a retrenchment of
e, the unueceflary expences of Government.
Mr. T. sAid he had observed that a refold-
| n tion of this kind was always brought for-'
ward in the feflion preceding an ele&ion.—
e> He did not wi(h, kowever, that the propofi
ig tion ihould lie longer on the table. ■ If it
__ were true that the expences of Government
were excelEie, they ought immediately to
set about retrenching them; and if it were
not true, the sooner they t*ild the people
so, by reje&ing the motion, the better.
The question for agreeing to the resoluti
on was put arid negatived, 33 to 30.
Just as the Speaker was cbunting the
votes, Mr. Lyon entered, and said, had he
been present when the question was pat, he
■- should have called the Yeas and Nays upon
it.
Coit moved that tlie report of the
Committee «f Claims, made in January last,
1- on the petition of Edward St. Loe Liver
more, be referred to a Committee of the
j whole. Agreed for Monday.
The fame gentleman moved a resolution
to the following effedt:
" Resolved, that the committee of ways'
d and means be inftrufted to enquire whether
any, and if any, what alterations are proper
j to be made in the aft for laying a tax upon
licences for retailing wine and spirits, and"
that they report by bill or otherwise."
Mr. Coit said, that, as the law flood at
present, licences were taken for a yeai from
the time at which they were granted, be
that time when it might, so that they were
constantly becoming due. He wi/hed to
have riiis inconvenience remedied, by put
ting the law upon the fame footing with the
carriage tax, the licences under which all
became due at one time ; as when a licence
was taken, it was taken so as to fall due at'
the time fixed.
The motion was agreed to.
Mr. Williams said, he found in the re
port of the committee of revifal and unfinifh
ed business, the report of afeleft committee
on a letter from the Secretary of State, in
clofmg a report of the direftor of the mint,
suggesting the expediency of some altera
tions in its eftablilhmcnt, to render it less
expeufive to the public ; and as he wilhed
to render that establishment less expensive,
he moved 'that the'letter and report be re
ferred to a conlmittee of the whole house.
Agreed for Wednesday.
Mr. Harper said, that the committee
to whom it was referred to report a bill for
establishing an uniform fyftcm of bankrupt
cy, conceiving this fubjeft to be of such
general concern, embracing so great a varie
ty jof interests, and a question in which the
meraantile affairs of the community were so
deeply involved, that they had wished him
to request an augmentation of the committee.
The motion was agreed t®, and eleven
members were added to the committee, com
prising a member from each state.
No business being before the house
(though only twelve o'clock) it adjourned
till Monday, a previous motion having been
passed for adjourning till that time, when
the house did adjourn.
NEW-YORK, Dec. 4.
The second part of the Medical Reposi
tory has lately made its appearance in this
city, from the press of Meflrs. Swords, prin
ters to the faculty of physic of Columbia
College.
The firft article is a communication from '
Dr. Mease of Philadelphia, on the Digita
lis purpurea, or purple Fox Glove, as a me- '
dicinal plant, in which the writer attempts '
to (how the rcafons, why the exhibition of
it has often failed of success.
The fecdnd article is from the fame gen- '
tleman, relating totheeffefts of eating phea
sants * [partridges] in the spring of the \
year, when their flelh is poisoned, as it is
(uppofed, by eating the berries of the Laii- i
rel. This article is of praftical use to all !
descriptions of people ; as there is real dan- '
| ger of eating those birds from February till J
May. Persons, in a few hours, after i'wal
lowing the flelh that is tainted with the ber
ries, are seized with giddinels, slushing of '
* It is wished that the people of the United ,
States might all use the fame language. The
fbeafart is net known in this country. Tie
people in the middle and southern dates, .call 1
p-artrirges, pheafarits ; and qiuils, partridges. '
'I he New-England people tall tKofe bird* ly !
their true Englifli names.
' face, sickness and vomiting, followed by
delirium.
Iwo clergymen in Boston, a few years
a S°> fullered fevcrely from the fame cause.
Fhe third article is a letter from Dr.
Davidfon of Martinique to Dr. Mease, con
taining observation? on the yellow fever iir
1 793• From flirhe observations and experi
ments, the writer is led to afcrilje the fever
• in Grangers from a northern climate, to their
imbibing an unilfual quantity of oxygene
gaS \
i v The fourth article is a singular cafe of a
" child, apparently fatiphulous, by Dr. Hedg
. es of Newburgli.
1 The fifth article is an account of the fuc
| eefsful application of caullic to a ftridturc
. in the urethra,'by Dr. Seaman of this city,
f The fifxth'artrcle'is a"cafe of Mania cuYed
r tiy mercury, producing
. "salivation, by'Drt Sriiith of this fcjty.
The seventh article contains fails and ob
fcrvations of Dr. Mitchel, explaining the
. true OperatJbn of Alkalis and lime on other
( fiibftances—in a.letter to Dr. Beddoes, at
. the .close-os which the phildfopber turns po
et and takta a tt-ip to ParnafTus ; and we
, confefs, the Doctor on the parnassian deed,
. appears to be very well mounted.
The.eighth article, contains some judici
p ous and ufeful observations hfDn Mijlerof
, this city on the effefts of 3bftineace in pre
venting ot mitigating diseases. We have
great faith in his opinions, arid firmly be
lieve, >hat abstinence, at the approach of
disease would prevent much sickness. '
The ninth article is the cafe of change in
the human liver- by pntrefaftion, from
Fourcroy.
The tenth article relates a cafe of fever
• supposed to he caused by putrid beef, by
Dr.Ofborn, surgeon to tht gatrifon on Go
vernors Iflatx^.
./ The remainder ,of this number of the re
pository is occupied with a review of medi
cal b6oks, meteorological observations for
July, August and Sept;mber, lift of patients
adrr.itted into the hospital, Medical news,
} Concluded with art 1 Appendix containing a
lcttef fnem-Dr. Mitchell to Dr. Percival of
Manchester, on the use of Alkaline remedies
in fevers ; and an article on the use of ijitrous
acid in Syphilis, by Dr. Beddoes.
It mull give plealure .to the lovers of fci
enee and truth, that this attempt to colled
the particles of knowledge, which are scat
tered over this and other countries, and save
them for future use, is in a fair way to suc
ceed ; and we expeft this repository will in
time be .a large and valuable magazine of
medical truths ana experiments.
Continuation of Late Foreign News,
By the Britifli Packet.
LONDON, Oft. 2.
The follovying is a letter from a naval officer
(late aprifoner in France) to his friend
in Greenock, dated on board his Majes
ty's ship Inipeteux, Torbay, 16th, ulti
mo :
" 0 n the flocks in the different building
yards at L'Orient, four ships of 74 guns
each ; one of was ready for launch
ing, a second qfarjy f», the other two only
in the framep,,and no workmenabout them.
In the harbor pae large frigate fitting for
sea with the greatest expedition, destined
for the East-Indies, and will be ready for
sea in ten days. There were likewise a
great number of privateers fitting for sea
with no less dispatch ; one ofthemmounted
28 guns, and would fail in a few days ; her
cruising latitude was from 49 {o 25 N. and
from 19 to to W. While I remained in
L'Orient, fix privateers failed, although the
signal was flying every day in the dock-yard
for a British squadron on the coast. I was
told by the merchants at L'Orient, that they
could fepd to sea from the different ports in
France, from 400 to jooprivateers, and that
they did not mind losing a few of them ;
they flattered themselves that one British
merchantman would make up the loss of a
dozen of their JVnall craft ; indeed the crews
of these veflels prepare themselves to be cap
tured, by taking no clothes with them but
what they' have on their backs, and one
change.
" I left L'Orient on the Bth of August,
and arrived at Bred in three days afterwards.
There ygrejn tjjat harbour four ships of
the line,two of which are three-deckers,
and two two-deckers, viz. l'lnvir.cible, and
l'Ocean, of.ioo guns each, the Berwick 74
and Jupiter 80 guns, and two frigates and
a corvette, all ready for hending their fails,
except the Berwick, which had her top
mad an end, none of them well manned.
There were on the flocks one of 140 guns,
Le Vengeur, in the frames, but no people
employed on her, one of 80 guns in the fame
date, and two frigates. 111 the docks four
of 80 guns, and two of 74, but no men.em
ployed about them, three of which were in
the engagement of the id June 1794, viz.
L' Aigle, Trajan, and Tyrannicide ; and
have not been at sea since. There were in
the Inner Road 16 fail of the line, viz. two
of three decks, and three flags, the flag ships
are La Terrible and.Le Republicain of 100
guns each, aqdL'lndomptable of 74 guns ;
nine of them had their fails bent, and in a
date of readiness for sea ; the others are
not half manned, and nothing but discon
tent prevails among the seamen, on account
of want ,of wages. In the Outer Road
there were Iyi«g at anchor two ftiips of the
line, four frigates, one corvetSi, and a lug
ger, all readyi&nv;iea ; they were to be
joined of the line and two fri
gates from the Inner Road, and were to pro
ceed to feti iu a few days, but I could not
learn thcir.'dedinatiorf.
" I was informed, by a person at Bred,
on whose information I could place a little
dependence, that the French were making 1
preparations for a descent on Ireland and
Scotland this winter, for which purpose 1
thty had 40,000 men in the neighbourhood
of Bred ready to embark. I saw part of 1
the troopsat exercise on a grand parade day,
city ; they expedl that thisarmame\it j
before failing, will be joined by the Spaftjfh
and Dutch fleets."
> A letter from an officer in the Orion, of
• 74 g uns > dated Sept. ii has been received
. here this morning ; by this letter we learn,
■ that the Orion had been at Gibraltar to
i .Water, whft;- they lay ten' days; when they
• came away an attack on the town was dai
r ly expedted from the Spaniards, who feem
r ed to be making formidable preparations
: for that purpoic. Flags of truce are cou
| tinually passing between the commanders at
i I Cadi/, and lord St. Vincent, and a report
- Was prevalent in the fleet,nhat the guillo
tine has raised its direfulhead in sundry pla
ces of Spain;
; Cflober 3.
The Dutch papers to the 25th ult. state
1 that an oflenfivc and definitive alliance has
r been concluded between the Batavian R«-
public and the court of Maffrid, on which
- they engage to ad in conceit dining the
2 prefen't war. The king of Spain, as a proof
r of his sincerity, has pmniifed, to indemnify
t the Dutch merchants for the detention of
- their (hips in the years 1,779, 80 a
e 1781.
> A Britifli veflel, the cargo of which was
valued at 60,0001. was lately seized on the
- Barbary coast by fix Portuguese, partof the
f crew, while the mailer pr«ceeded to Ceuta
- for provisions. They had taken shelter in
; one of the ports on that coast, but werepur
- sued, and probably ere this taken.
f The three Spsnifh Prelates who have
been so long upon a million at Dome, have
1 left that city, upon their returp to Madrid,
1 carry ing with them the fanftion ot his Holi
nffs for the reform of the Spanish Inquifitf
■ on, the reftri&ion upon religious foundati
■ ons, See. The Inquisition in Spain is uot
. totally abolished, as has been, reported.
Though in none of the papers
by the Triumvirs in order to fubdantiatc the
. charge of a Conspiracy, the least mention
is made either ofCarnot or Bsrthelemy, yet
1 it is easily conceived, how extremely impor
tant it was for the Triumvirate to get rid of
these two Directors.—Both, and especially
Carnot,could not but be intimately acquainted
with the secret of the adtual Caufpiraey of
: the Triumvirs against the Legislative Body,
and of the measures planned for the dettruc
tion of the new Third. In order to blot
out every trace of the traiterous scheme,
nothing could be more convenient than to
murder one and to transport the other to a
distant country, in the paflage to which he
may perhaps find his death in some means or
other, in the manner of Carrier's downings
at Nantes.
In refpeft to the Fast of Carnot's afiafii
nation, whether by the hands ofßarras, or
of two Myrmidons whom the Triumvirate
had placed in the Gallery of the Luxem
bourgh to do the deed, at h« pasTed from the
Council chamber of the Directory, after re
fufing to give , his afTent to the plaa of the
late revolution, there is no doubtoffthe mur
der, nor of the person* who gave the order
for it—the truth will come out. Carnot's
Brother is also fuppufed to have been afTaffi
nated..
This morning we received the Paris Jour
nals down to the 30th ult. of which the
following are the principal contents.
1 lie moll remarkable information in the
French papers, is the appearance of a coun
ter revolutioo in Poland, about to commence
under the auspices of Buonaparte. To that
effeft he has written to Count Potocki, for
merly anibaflador at Cendantinople from
Poland. The French General earneft'y so
licits the speedy assemblage of the Marshals
and Chiefs of the Diet of 1791 at Milan.
The exiled Poles, driven from their country
on account «f the lad infurreiSlion in Poland
and who have lately reiided in Paris, have
left the latter place, by invitation, for Ita
>y-
Odtober 4.
The latest advices from Admiral Duncans
fleet off the I exel, give the following infor
mation.—" By a Danish ship, which left the
Texcl yederday [Sept. 36], we have ob
tained ih formation, that in consequence of
lome serious misunderstanding between the
Dutch and French, the Dutch f »ilors had
lefufed to go to sea, when the Admiral
made the signal to weigh ; upon which most
of the officers had their baggage lent on
fliore ; and very soon after they followed it
{hemfelves. Their transports have been re
move 4 from the outward to the inner road,
and the troops are disembarked."
A young captain (of great military tal
ents, no doubt, though not quite twelve
years of age) was asked the other day, what
regiment he belonged to ? The of
light dragoons." " Are you sure you're
not miftaflen ?" said an elderly gentleman
in company—•' I (hould rather suppose you
belong to the light «y"b»<-ry !"
Madame Carnot, with her children, now
reside at the house of a relation near Arras.
We are intreated not to confound the
seducer of Miss King with'a gentleman who
is generally known by the name of Flying
Fitzgerald, and who wounded Harvey Al
ton in a duel about fix years, ago, in conse
quence of a dispute at Ranelagli.
Maj. Wood, who was second to the hon.
col. King in a late duel, is nearly related to
the fami y of lord Kingfborough.
Colonel Fitzgerald is half-brother to lady
Kingfborough. His father's second wife
was her ladyship's mother.
The unfortunate Miss K is describ
ed, by tbofe who are acquainted with her,
to be one of the fined young ladie&rin this
country.
A barpnet atithe we# end of the town
has, withitr these few days, been discovered
by his lady in an amour with .his cook.—
The enraged midrefs beat the peccant fair
t/.ie so fevercly with the heel of her shoe,
that it is supposed she will lose the fight of
one of her eyes.
Why Sir Benjamin Hammet should de
cline the honours of the civic chair, it is ra
ther puzzling to conjecture. Now that
certain parliamentary regulations have per
rnitted him to rcpofe from the endlcfs toil of
f:anting, surely the leisure he has been thus
indulged in, might as difni e r.dm!, be de
voted to feajling for the public good N6r
can we he induced to believe, as has beer,
nuliciou fly mfinuated, that his rehaance to.
enter ori the d'lties of the digeflive dire&or
fhip can poifihly arifr from any dread of iu
belrtg ihftng employment ; on the contra
ry, according to an experienced writer, he
will then be entitled, as alderman, especially
as city chief, to make a trade of his eating,
and, like a cock, to f?ape while he feed*.
The privateer L'lntrepide, belonging to
Nantz has sent into Minden the Mary, an
American brig, laden with sugar, eoffee,
cotton and pepper. The privateer fell in'
with two American vessels, on their way
home, with 450 passengers from Ireland on
board.
| Storaee and Braham are now termed the
two Canaries, from the eireumftance of those
amorous -warblers Wia-gjhut up in a cage !
OFTICO or THE MINISTER OF MARINE.
' {From the French papers.)
The privateer La Reprise, from St. Jean
, de-Luz, mounting two guns arid eight fwiv
| els, after three-attempts to boafd, and an en
gagement which laffed five hours, has cap
, r turcd a Portuguese ship,' named the Caro
! line, of 400 tons, carrying fix 12, 8, and 6"
pounders, and copper bottomed, returning
from Fernambuc to Oporto, with 6000
quintals of sugar, 242 bales df cotton, 2135
cow hides, 431 logs of wood for furniture,
and 1900 cow horns. This rich vessel has
been earned into Vigo. The captain of
the privateer is citizen Lavagne, 80 years of
age, who took on him the command of the
privateer in lieu of his son, detained on shore
by iicknefs.
The privateer La Mouche, belonging to
Rochelle, has carried into port an Engliih
prize, the cargo of which is estimated at
1,700,000 livres. This privateer has also
captured two Poriuguefe vefTels.
The privateer Le Castor, belonging to St-
Maloes, captain Leredda, lias captured the
Resolution, belonging to Limeriefc, laden
with fait, and has carried her into Rofcoff
The privateer Le Lazare Hoche, be
longing to Brefl, has sent into L'Orienr,
the O.iio, of 300 tons, laden with pitch, tar,
wood for building, cotton, See. under A
nierican colours. _
The privateer Le Voltigeur, belonging to
Calais, has captured and sent off the Uhe,
the English brig the ReMiition, captain
Long, from Memvl, laden with timber for
building.
The privateer I'Enttrprize, belonging to
Nantz, has sent into Minden an English ves
sel named the Grace, of 460 tons, on her
paliage from Liftjon with a cargo 9f fait.
The fame privateer has sent into the river
of Nantz the American ftiipthe Light Horse
laden with beer and other commodities,
s j n Ebglifh galliot, laden with 74 pip&
and 150 cases of Fort wine, bound to Gib
raltar, has been aaptured hy fomc French
vessels, and sent into Cologne.
The privateer I'Aigle, belonging to L'
Orient, has entered that port with the Ra
ven, an American vefTel of 300 tons, laden
with sugar, cotton, nankeens,
The privateer L'Entrcprenant, belong
ing to Dieppe, captain Black, has carried
into Cherbourg- an Eirglifl, brig named the
Hope, which (he cut out of the road of
Guernsey. She is laden with wine, hrandy
and gin. 1
From the Whitehall Evening Pojl of Oa. 7.
ABRIDGEMENT OF TH E STATE OF POUTICf,
FOR THIS WEEK.
We have not been informed of any thing
remarkable, in the course of the present
week, in the interior of France. The Di
rectory mud, no doubt, be busily occupied
in filling up the vacancies occasioned by
their late violent proceedings in the Coun
cils. Indeed it mull, we are afraid, he a
long time before any tiling very remarkable
eau happen' in that humbled kingdom : in
which as complete a tyranny fcems, for the
present, te prevail as ever existed, and in
whieh the very voice of liberty is not heard.
The people, wearied of fruitlefs efforts for
the re (iorarion of tranquility, and afraid of
the Direftory, consults every one his own
fafety.—Such are the fruits of jacobiaifm !
the innovations of vilionary politicians ! the
(ticklers for the rights, but the defpifers and
violators of all the duties of man !—The
French revolution mult be allowed, at the
fame time, to be a warning to kings, as well
as to the people ; for altho' the prince on
whom the florin broke, had this world been
3 place for an equal diftnbutJon of .rewards
■andpunifhments, would have been secured
from such extreme calamities by the inno
cence of bis life, and the sincerity of his d-.-
votion ; the elements of that storm were
prepared for ages, in the opprefiion and the
profulion of his predecessors on the throne,
and in those unfortunate councils by which
he was, soon after the commencemeftt of his
reign, and without experience ofthe expence
of war and the inconltancy of affairs drawn
in to take a share in the contest between A
mevica and Great Britain—The appearance
of Flags of Truce and frequent lieffrngers
from Fiance, with difpatchjs addrsfled, not
to lord Grenville, the miniller of this coun
try for foreign affairs,-but to Lord Malmef
bury, has been considered by some as an
indication, on the part of the Direaory,
as a disposition to Peace, and a wi.ih to re'
Hew, or rather to continue the negociation,
which, they think, has never been entirely
brojeen off. But to thitf conjecture we op
pose the aftual breaking up of the conferen
! ces at Lifie, and the interest of the present
rulers of France to carry on the fyitam of
war and plunder—to go on with pillage and
conquest—to make their neighbours pay for
the maintenance of armies, by which they
keep themselves in power, trample on their
own countrymen, and harrafs all the nati
ons around them—Nothing new has tran
spired on the fide of «-
SPAIN and PORTUGAL;
nor yet have we been informed of what has
t iken place at Udlna, the feat of negociati
an inITALY,
f.t'ilier tlnn the greatest military prepsrlti-,
ot|S are still on foot on both fides. Buona
parte, who takes hi? aims from afar, and 13
subtle and profound in his. views, and in his
rcfources mol fertile and various, appears
to have had a design to amuse the enemy
by making a (hew of a wilh on his part and
an expedition of peace, while he seemed
anxious above all things to fettle his new
republics. The Emperor was not iitdeed
lulled into security ; but it will be difficult
to escape some snare that lies hid under the
open proceedings of the Italian, and not an
adventurer from another country. Two
circumftances,relativeto the probabledefighs
of Buonaparte, have lately drawn universal
attention. He humours, flatters, and courts
the
OTTOMAN COURT,
and he shews an intention of taking under
his prot'eftion the cause of the Polish na
tion. This is certainly placing France in the
Situation she was wont to fold in the chain
of. political powers ; the ally of the Turks,
and the Poles, united with the Turks in
hoftilit.y to Austria and Ruflia. But the
KING OF PRUSSIA,
is the tyrant of Poland, is the ally of France.
How is this majter to be arranged ? His
Pruflian Majesty is sick, and according to
all accounts, drawing near his end.
THE DUTCH SAILORS,
have lately, given a proof of their attach
ment to the Stadtholder in refuting to
weigh anchor and fail out of the harbour
under Admiral Winter. The cause of the
S-adtholder does not by any means appear
to 11s. to be desperate ; though it is better
to give way for a time, and wait far favor
able opportunities, thau to attempt any
fchemts for restoration by fafce of arms.
FRANKFORT, Sept. 16.
In the fair of this city, many French emi
grants of diftinclion kept (hops ; their com
modities were for the mod part, the produce
of their own industry.
ITALY, September 28.
The French have set up a printing press
on the island of Corfu.
At Genoa the ex-patrician Spinola, who
has been envoy at Paris and London, as also
Rivarola, who has been envoy in the latter
city, have been declared emigrants, arid
their effefts confiscated. The fame has
heen deereed at Venice against Morofini,
Jate infpeftor generalof the Venetian troops;
he has also been burned in effigy.
The famous Dondolo, an apothecary, it
gone to general Buonaparte at Udina, to
make some new proposition relative to Ve
nice.
The Neapolitan prince Paterno, who fail
ed from Sicily to Naples, in a (hip which
had above 200,000 ducats on board, in jew
els and valuable commodities, hat been taken
by a Tunisian corsair, and carried into
Tunis. The Neapolitan eonrt has dispatch
ed a courier to Constantinople on the oc
casion, and the Spanish envoy at Tunit has
taken the prince under his protection as a
grandee of Sp&in.
The pestilential distemper that prevails in
Corsica was brought by a Turkish ship that
was stranded on the island. Some of- the
people of the coast ran to pick up the goods
fromthe wreck, though the Turkscalled to
them that the plague was on board ; this,
however, did not restrain them, and the con
sequence was that joo persons died > n the
town of Murgo. A drift cordon is now
drawn xound theinfefted country.
MILA.N, September 9.
Though the German papers have dated that the
Imperial troops occupy the whole of Venetian Dal
mafia, it is certain that the nature of the cour.try,
anrtrhe of the inhabitants, oppose great
ohftacles to that invasion ; and admitting even the
supposition of peace, the pofleffion of th« Auftri
ans will net remain long tranquil It cannot be
difiembied, th.it the new acquisitions of the house
„f ~a imift be of the greatest importance to
its commerce and its revenue ; and the inttreft
which it has in preserving them, and ittfuring their
peaceable enjoyment, inclines u« to believe that! the
Ifmperor would not eipofe himfelf to the chances
of war, which cantlot but be disastrous to him.
The population of Iftria amounts at present to
no more than 140,0.: O ; but, under a good eov
ernmeni, it would soon increafeto half a million.
This province ha* about a dozen of potts, several
of which are much superior to that of Tried. The
ports of Rofla, Queto, and Pola, are capable of
containing the most considerable fleets, and the
fpil-jof the country is fufevptible of every species
of cultivation. The wines ai;d the oils of Iftria
have a great reputation.
VenetianDalmatia containsabout 3 o,o^oinha
bitants. Rara, SeVienifco, Spolatra, and Macarfea,
are the chief points of communication with Euro
pean Turkey, which supplies Dalmatia with pitch,
wax and wheat.
We have read with much plcafure the report
made by the committee of publicfafety to the pro
visional municipality of Venice, on the political
and commercial iituition of Venice, and which is
addrefled.to the Gifalpine republic, and to all the
French people of Italy—This report contains a
statement of the public debt, and the resources of
Venice ; presents a beautiful perfpe&ive of its ma
ritime power ; and finally demonstrates, under ev
ery relation, the utility of an union with the Cis
alpine republic.
General Buonaparte hai presented .100 mufquets
to the Venetian national guard. Venice, after the
example of Brescia, is about to form a regiment
r.f youths between twelve and fifteen years of age,
who, thus exercised during their infancy in the
pr»fcffion of ;rsrs, will acquire a taste for it, and
form a nursery of warriors disciplined, and capa
ble of being employed every where.
Tire French have reqeired of this country eight
millions of livres for the support of their army,
which sum wil! for the most part be levied on the
capitaiifts and the clergy. Our republic has raort
traced togesr al Buonaparte yearly half the Duchy
of Slantu-I, lying on the right tanks of the riv
ers Oglio and Po a part of Brcfcia, and some
valleys bordering on the 1 yr®l. The -city and ior
trefj of Mantua is not, however, included.
jf—j —C"C
MR BYRN&'s fitft Ball will be on Tuesday
evening next, t2th Deceraberj at O Kllcr..
Hotel, when several new Country Dances for the
enfuiug season be introduced, composed, and
figures adapted, by Mr. Byrne, for thpamufement
the company in general.
The Doors to be opened at fix, and the .■ all
conimf nee at seven. Gantlemen's T.cke'.s one dol
lar each, to be had at O'Ellerss—Ladies' Tickets,
tratis, for the season, of Mr. and Mr*. Bysne,
No. 114, north Sixth street. Dec, 8.
By this driy's Mail.
BOSTON, December 2.
THE UNIVERSITY AT CAMBRIDGE,
Says a correspondent, is in a more fiourifh
ingifituation than at any period since its ex
ifience. The visiting committee from the |
board ofoverfeers hasfora considerable time
past exprefled their warm approbation of the
state of things in this important seminary.
It must be pleasing to the parents and friends
of these young gentlemen to hear that there
has not been a public censure passed on any
scholar for more than four years, con fequent
ly on none that is now in college.—lt is a
fadv that many of these young men have du
ring the pad feafon,-beenjfy£ and tlx hours
in a day, either hear rig lectures from the
different profeffors, or vaptipg to their Tu
tors. There never was a period when there
existed a greater hafmouy between the gov
ernors and governed, between the teacher
and pupil. It is also a faft, which the whole
town of Cambridge can ttftify, that since
the bridges have been built over Charles-Ri
ver, there has been less noise and riot after
fun set about college, than ever was known
before. Tfie increased and still increasing
number of leftures seem to have opened new
profpcfts to these Undents, and to occupy
their minds so agreeably as to leave little
inclination for riot and disorder. It may be
said with tTuth,and therefore it ought la be 1
said, that the present set of students atCam
bridge«!o honor to themselves and to the
college.
PROVIDENCE, (R. I ) Dec. 2.
A letter has been received here from Mr.
William Magee, of this town, dated at sea
about 25 days since, which informs; that
the (hip Eliza, capt. William Page, of this
port had been attacked in the Streights of
Banca by a Prow, when capt. Page, Thor- i
as Page, seaman, and a Dutch Liaguift, ;
were unfortunately killed. By the bravery j
of the crew, the nativee were beat off, and
the Eliza had failed for Manilla.
NEW-YORK, December 8.
Carnot, it is said, informed Barthelemy,
on the 3d of September, of the scheme plot
ted by the Triumvirs to arrest them, and
proposed to prevent the execution of this
plan, by denouncing them to the couneils.
He took upon himfelf to cause the Trium
virs to be arretted that night for which pur
pose he had prepared every neoeffary mea
sure. Barthelemy more accustomed to the
quiet proceedings of diplomatic business,
than to the violent movements of the revolt
ution, could not convince himfelf of the
reality of the plot of the triumvirate, and
rejefted the proposed raeafure.
The French seem to have copied the Ro
mans, servilely and abjeftly, in retaining
many particulars in their new constitution,
which it was thought worth a revolution to
remove from the old; and leaving out the
good parts of their model, which made its
defeats less glaring, and compensated for
its want of perfeftiou in the whole. Like
the firft consuls, they have increased the
veftigalia of Tyan*y, and kept the insignia
of loyal power, but omitted to provide for
the exercise of religion, and forgot to be no
ble, generous, and magnanimous.
\_Ltnd. Pap.~\
The Abbe of Bologna lately preached a
sermon to the church of St. Roch, in which
he assured his congregation, " It was use
less for them to deceive themselves any lon
ger; and that the Catholic religion is in
compatible with a democratic government."
—This is a new proof of the endless errors
into which they plunge themselves by fol
lowing theories. In the United States we
find that the Catholic religion harmonizes
as well with a republican government, as a
ny ether.
LONDON, Oftobei 6.
The Earl of Mornington embarks for Ben
gal on board La Virginie frigate, in which
also Sir JohnAnftruther takes his passage
la Virginie is expefted to touch at Madrafi,
in her way to Fort William.
Accounts from the Hague 'give the fol
lowing particulars of the late infurreftion in
the fleet in the Texel :—Several battalions
being sent o» shore for their ill-behaviour,
admiral Winter sent fortheirofficerson board
his ship, and asked them whether they chose
to go to the Weft-Indies, or resign their
fituations<? Upon their asking if any order
existed for that end, and exprefiing their
willingness to obey it, the order was produ
ced and they were further enjoined to repre
sent the fame to the troops. Aecord
ingly, a Colonel went on board a trasf
port, which had two Companies ; but he
had scarcely time to inform them of the
order, when they fixed their bayonets,
firtd accused the Colonel of being the Au
thor, of the order. These two compa
nies were then sent on shore, where they
were difarraed by a body of Chasseurs ap
pointed to receive them—Six of the former
were seized by order of admiral Winter, and
ordered to be hanged up without any fur
ther process; the fentenee was immediately
executed upon two of tliem. Much doubt
was expressed refpefting the loyalty of those
forces which still lemaiiled on board the
(hips.
The Virginie frigate ready for sea in ev
ery refpefts, and will eertaitily, wind and
weather permitting, fail for Madras and
Bengal in the courl'e of next week.
J dancin g. ~
Mr. FRANCIS,
OF the New Theatre, refptdiully informs the
public, that he ro longer means to continue
his Dancing School in conjunition with Mr. Byrne,
but will open it lepatately early in December, and
hepes still to receive the accustomed patronage with
which he has been honored, and which it will be
his confrant endeavor to dtferve.
Vrivare parties may be inftru&ed at his own
house, No. 70, north Eighth f.reet.
rcvertibcr 29. ee tf
gto WE i—ww uut*iAa< wurm :T J
OM Sas
' rvf9rw ,.„.
PHIL AJD It LP lIIA t
'SATURDAY EVENING, DKCKHSHin 9 .
Yesterday, the House of RcpreTcrlLaflirts
of this State, according to the ofder of the
day, proceeded to the choice, of their prin
ters. The votes for the printer of the Jour'
nals, were an equal number for MefTrs. Hall
and Sellers and Messrs. F. and R. Bailey;
the decision was therefore poftppned till to
morrow. Mr. Bradford was chosen printer
of the bills, and Mr. Bilmeyer, of German
town, for the German printing.—The com
mittee appointed to wait upon the.Govern
or, reported,that he would make his Com
munications to both Houses, in the Senate
Chumber, this dgy.st, twelve o'clock. At
twelve o'clock ike hoefe adjourned till this
day at eleven.
Died—At Sharon Massachusetts, Npv.22
the Rsv. Phillip Curtis, Jit. B*,tu>ds6th
year .of his ministry. This Divide adoiit
ted to the Church 261 communicants, offi
ciated at every communion for more than 55
years ; baptized 916 persons and .married
336 couple. Of his society 410 have died.
That esteem and veneration towards him
which had been maturiug for anore than half
a century, was by his parilhioners and others
otnanifefted at his funeral, by the respeCt
(hewn to his memory.
■ At Litchfield, Connecticut, an mon
day the 27th Nov. the Hon. Andrew A
dams, Esq. Chief Judge of the Superior
Court; aged 61 years.
To the Editor of the Gazette of the. U. States.
S i A*
Among the papers lately read in congress
concerning Mr. Blount, there was one which
the fhort-haad writers have reported as"en
dorsed by Judge Turner." I feel it incum
bent on me to obftrve, that that paper was
altogether in Mr. Blount's hand writing. He
wrote it in ir.y prtfebce, tfr»m aiifwcrs I
made to certain propounded.
It contained notes concerning Upper Lou
iiiaca, where I spent part of the winter of
1794-5. It will not be deemed requisite by
those who know me, to observe further,
that I was not aware, when those notes were
taken, of any improper use intended to be
made of them. I should readily have giv
en the fame information to any other person
profefiing, as Mr. Blount did, a desire to
collect fatks respeCting the interior of North
America.
. G.TURNER.
Philad. Dec. Bth, 1797.
MR. FENNO,
The publication from Alexandria of the
number of vefleli captured by the French
belonging to that town, is an example that
ought to be followed by all the sea-ports in
the United States. The annals of naval de
predations do not furnifh such instances of
outrage and lawless plunder, and this perpe
trated without the smallest pretext—pre
text did I fay ! the French government are
under the highest obligations to the people
and government of the United States. Ttuc
can be made to appear by a recital of fa&i
innumerable. The treatment we have re
ceived is a meft serious leflon to our coun
try j it fully proves that whatever men may
pretend, those who call themselves republi
cans, will prey on those who are really so,
whenever they have power so do it. The
magnitude of our lolTcs by the French ought
to be known. It will account for that dis
tress in which so great a number of persons
are involved at the present time. It will
serve to convince the people of this country,
who have been so often insulted with the
words national gratitude, that they mull look
to themselves and their own resources, for
justice and protection from lawless violence.
c;
A " Friend to Lpws and Freedom" on
Monday.
(Cj" On Sunday next, there will be Chari
ty Sermons and Collections, forenoon and
afternoon, in Christ's Church and St. Pe
ters, for the Poor of those Churches.
(Cs* A Charity Sermon will be preached
by the Rev. Mr. Neale, next Sunday, in St.
Mary's Church, at 10 o'clock, A.M. for
the benefit of the poor of the said Church.
PRICE OF STOC K-S.
Philadelphia, 25th Nov. 1797.
6 per Cent. 16/101017/.
] per C«nt. iOf4 to 6
Deferred 6 per Cent. I.yfc
BANK United States, 13 per ct. advance.
Pennsylvania, 1J d«.
North America, 50 do.
Insurance Co. Pennsylvania, (hares percent.
N. A (hares 50 do.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE. ,
On London, at 30 days par
at 60 days 65
at 90 days
Amsterdam, per guilder 40
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The following bearings of a (hoal lately
discovered in the entrance to False Bay, are
made public for general information.
It lies about five miles' ftoirt the western
fl>ore, Cape of GiWi'd Hope point, bearing
S. W.-i W S. E. \ Ei—Seal
I (land, N. E. fix N—Pniefberg, W. \ N.
—Mifenberg, N. -§ W.-~GrotMidths Win
kle, weft—Depth of water before (triking,
twenty fathom.
The Alia (truck very hard going about
four knots, and immediately on heaving the
: lead had no graund twenty fathom, this was
; July 21 ft. About a fortnight after, his
5 Majeily's (hip Trident (truck on it—and on
1 the fleet under Sir George Keith Elphin
I (ton leaving the Bay, the .America favv th
tock' r.lofe along fide. The bearings are by j
cotnpafs and were exadtly the fame in all the j
(hips. ■' >' r
LCilcHtt* Qhtoniele,pec. 27,"96 ]
The feh'r Swift, Tremmels, from henee .
has arrived at Martinique.
The (hip Magnet, , from London
derry to this port, has put into New-York.
The following outward bound vessels lay
at Reedy Ifiand on Wednesday last :
Ship Joan, Macpherfon, for Savannah
Sweriger Rigfdag, Nannings.Lilbon
Brig Pennsylvania, Tatem, Cadiz
S'chr Hetty, Mason, Savannah
Alciope, Rice,' Jacqmel
Harriot, Da C°fta> St. Croix.
A brig without a head, and the Revenue
Cutter, captain Roach, were also at the 1
Island.
The brig Sally, Logan, for Bourdeanx, ,
and a yellow sided schooner are at New Cas
tle.
The br!g Molly, Kilby, for St. Bartho
lcmews, fch'r Hamdallah, Montgomery,for
Algiers, (loop Sally, Stote(bi)ry, for St.
Thomas, are at Marcus Hook.
The Carteret Packet, which was to have
failed from New York last Thursday, in
confequenet ofthe arrival oftheQueen Char
lotte, is detained for a few days.
The (hips Thomas, captain Martin, and i
Gadfdtn, captain Hey ward, are taken by
British frigates ; the firft sent to New Pro
vidence, and the latter to Halifax.
The (hip Swifj Packat is arrived at Savan
nah, from Philadelphia
Capt. Lee arrived here last evening : he
came passenger in the South Carolina,which
(hip is arrived at New-Castle from Charles
ton.
The following outward-bound vessels are now
laying at New-Tort.
For London, the copper-bottomed]hip Mary,
captain Allyn. Enquire of Dunlap and Grant,
no. 6g. flone-Jireet.
For Glasgow, the Jhip Amjlerdam Packet,
capt.. Archibald Crockatt. Enquire of Smith
and Wick off, no. 11 I, Pear Jlreet.
For Dublin, the snow Pallas, captain Noah
Wyeth. Enquire of Thomas Carberry, no. 144,
Frontflreet.
For Dublin the Jhip Lydia, captain Charles
Hendcrfon. Enquire of Hugh Pollock and Co.
For Hatnburgh, the Jhip Roebuck, captain
Stephen Shew all, Enquire, of Hoffman and
Seton, no. 67, Wal'-Jlreet.
For Londonderry, the ship New- Tori, capt.
George M'Leod. Enquire of George Gallaher
no. 88, Front-Jlreet.
For St. Thomas' the fchotner Barbara,
captain John Prime. Enquire of Thomas Stagg ,
jun. Rofs's wharf.
For Liverpool, the ship Portland, captain
Hufjey. Enquire of Hallett, Bownc and Co. j
For Leghorn, the Ragufon t brig Good Union
captain Matteo Fifcovick. Enquire of E. Bru/h
no, 139. Gretnwtchjlreet,
For Havrt-de Grace, thefhip Fabius, capt.
A. Difvernay. Enquire of J. B. Defioity,
no. 74. Front-Jlreet.
For Amjlerdam, the (hip Fair American.
Enquire of Charles Smith, no. 14, Dey-fircet. ;
For New Providence, the Jloop Harwich
Packet, captain Jeremiah Stimfon. Enquire of
Baily and Bogert. Frontflreet.
For Hull, theJhip Fame, captain Gabrie
Havens.. Enquire of Lawrence and Vanzandt
no. 177, Waterflreet.
For Dublin, the bark Albany,'captain Judah
Haddock. I nquire of Isaac Hicks.
For Marseilles and Genoa, the Jhip Caro
lina, captain George DoJJc. £ nquire of N.
Gain, and Co. no. 41. Courtlandt-Jlrect.
For Marseilles and Greenock, 'the Swedijh
brig Ctnjenlfure, C aptain C. D. Hallery,
inquire of N. GoixandCo.no. 4 1 j Court
landt Jlreet.
For Cadiz; or Liverpool, theJhip American,
captain William Shallfrojs. Enquire of bbenc-
St evens.
For Cadir., the ship Polly Enquire of Mur
ray and Mumford, no. "}s,JloneJlreet.
For Amjlerdam, the Jhip Minerva, captain
K. Clarkfon, enquire of Charles Clarkfon, no
2 5 Dey-jreet.
For Dublin, the brig Resolution, eaptain
Parkham, enquire of Isaac Hicks, no 14
Crane wharf.
For Bourdeaux, the brig Hudson, captain
Henry Fanning, enquire of Peter Malidran,
no 13, Wcdl-Jlrect.
For Londonderry, the barque Pallas, capt
Thaddeus Waterman. Enquire of Bunlap and
Grant.
For Newry, the ship Catharine, capt Macey
enquire of Dunlap and Grant, no 60 Jlor.e-
Jlreet.
From Llotd's List,
From September 19, to October 3.
A letter from Nantes, of the 15th of
Sept. mentions the Farmer, Macey, from
London to Rhode-Island, having been ta
ken and carried into Rochefort.
The Chatham, Peters, from Saloe to New
York, is taken by a Freneh privateer, and
condemned at Barcelona.
L'lntrepid privateer, 20 guns and 150
men, and Chalfeur do. of 12 guns and 50
men, were destroyed by the Brilliant fri
gate on the coast of Norway, the lit of
September last.
Arrived. From
Stafford, Balk, at Gravefend, Virginia
South Carolina, Robinson, do. Havanaa
Paddy, Dafcall, do. do.
Manchester, Shewell, Cowes, Philadelphia
after beinff chafed on the coast of Ame
rica by a French privateer.
Jane Barrow, Liverpool, Virginia
Elizabeth, Webb, do. Savannah
Paddy, Lee, do. for Virginia
put back leaky
Eagle, Hubbard, do. Bolton
Commerce, Califf, Bristol, Virginia
last from Falmouth
Mary, Earle, Dover, Philadelphia
Roebuck, Hume, do. Havailna
; detained by a sloop of war
Maria Jane, Blunt, Hamburgh,
Victory, Stafford, do. do.
- •. * ' « . ,1. (
Ring Sun, B.ndford; do.
Pciinfy]vaHra,Wi!iiauifoii, do. Philadelphia
Holhroot, M'Call. . do. do. ..
Nancy, Bttcker, do. New-Yorfc
— , Rikkers, do. do.
, pill, do. Bcfloij
- , Burn, do. _ do.
Louis, Dcalc, Bremen J Baltimore
Providence, Otto do. do.
Phoenix, Becker, do. x do.
Anchor, Brant, do. do.
with loss of cables,
Maryland, Beard, Lisbon, do.
St. Tammany,Dangerfield, Miliford, Liver!
Molly, M'Dowell, Kircudbright, Virginia
Lexington, M'Kenzie, Rotterdam, Maryl.
Regulator, Lee, Cadii, Boftou
Charlotte, Jone, Dartmouth, New-York
Mary, Ingalls, Clyde, Charleston
Stpl. Sailed for
17, Sillers, Callahan, Gravefend,Charlfton
22, Efiex, Waddle, Falmouth, N. York
Betsey & Jenny, Young, Plymouth
America
23, Eliza, Harrington, 'do. Philadelphia
28, Integrity, Gillenger, Deal, Charleftoa
29, "Pa'llas, Cook, do. do.
New-Tori, Dec. 8.
ARSIfED.
Ship Magnet, Londonderry
Schr. Ar.telope,M'DowaH, Peterlburg
Elizabeth, Drifcoll, Jamaica
Thf following vefTels left the Hook, onWed
nefday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Ship Belvidere for London
Dispatch, Liverpeol
Fanny Glasgow
Charlotte, Guadaloupe
And several other veiTels—with a fine
wind at S. S. W.
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
Richard & James Potter,
IS this day diflolvcd, by mutual consent. All
perfous indebted to the said firm, are reqntfied
to ray the fime to either of the fubferibers; and
' ajl persons having any demands against them, are
requeued to fend thiir account foi fe'ttlement.
Richard Potter,
Jamet Potter.
December 9 , 5
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales Codas
40 Ho. jßaftas
11 do. Mamoody
17 do. Chinrz
1 do. Tookery
7, do. Gorah*
j. 25 do. M«ragunge«<»
£ do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
25 pip§s fineft particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage 1795.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
December 5. 3aw 4 w
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ,
Teacher ot Vocal and instrumental MuCc,
RETURNS hisfincere thanks to the Ladies and
Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
liberal encouragement fusee his residence in this ci
ty , and refpe&fully informs his friends and the pub*
lie generally, that, in confequtmce of the request
of fume of his friends, he has opened a Musical
Scheol at hishoufa in Sprmce Street No 174, where
he will teach on the Piano forte, Violin See. &c
He deems it unnecefiary to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inflituti-
O'j of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and zeal are much excited in an aff.mbly, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame object, hit
arrangement is such, that in interference of the
the differ, ntfexjswill be avoided Those Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
attend at his fcheol he will wait upon at their
houses ——-Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hii houf;, where his terms and further parti
culars may be known.
Dec - 7" "iweod
The City Dancing Aflembly,
Is unavoidably postponed till the 14th inft.
Dec. 2.
Uriah Smith,
No. «o, north Third street—Has for sale
A neat and general aflortmsnt of
Broad Cloths,Kerfey meres,Napt
and Drab Coarings. at-so
A variety of Gentlemen*' fafhionable fancy Waift
coating, (ilk Hosiery, See.
December 5. *eodlw
Philr.delphiaandLancafter Turn
pike Companany.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
annual Elusion for Officers for the ensuing
year .will be held at the Company's Office in Phila
d Iphia, on thefecond Mondayin January next, at
10 o'cl-ek, a. m. Wm. GOVETT, Sec'ry.
Decern! er 7 Its m&wt7j
Geenteel Boarding & Lodging.
A Family may be accommodated with a Draw
ing Room, two BedChambcrs, and suitable
accommodation for servants—at no. 53, north
Fourth street. Dec. s—*tts5 —*tts
Musical In/irument Manufactory t
167, Arch-flreet.
TO THE LOrERS OF HARMONY,
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonop;Aant and French harp
{lop, which for fer.fibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of <ronf)ru<3ion, the
fiiperiority of which Jie flatters himfelf, a single tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
are manufactured under his immediate infpeilion,
of the very be?: seasoned materials, he can fell on
reasonable terms for Cash. Instruments repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
ntvenher 18- iawstmo.
Wants a place,
AS a Wet Nurse, a young woman, wh<j can
be well recommended. Inquire in Eleventh
i street, near Race-street. hcv. iy.
j *eodiw.
| FOR SAIE,
! Several Fonts of Types—half worn.
, Including l.oi g Primer, about 407 weight, in
good condition, and vrouM sn r wer the purpose of
a country printer as weli asn;w.
Enquire cf the printer. dov. 30,A person well acquainted with j
thccheoryandpra&iceofbook-keeping, (
manyvtarsepf-agedinbufinefstorhimftlf ar.ddthcr-,
would be glad to be employed, either as an
or !a(?.or ; or in porting books ; ftatinj m:fettled
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in French or Englilh, y
A note addressed to J. A. and left at this office,
will be puuitually attended to.
November 30. 3-uvtf
To the Inhabitants of thr United
States.
SlilCU the knowledge of medicine, none has ev
er proved lb afteni(hin»l/efficacious, four i
verfally esteemed, or to which the affli&ed with
Rheumatisms, Gout, Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Palsy, Sprains, Bruises and Chilblains, may look
for relief with so much confidence, ?.s
Whitehead*s e[fence of Mujiard.
This extraordinary Medicine very loon affords
the wilhed for relief, " even to the aged iri cases
the moil delperate." For these substantial reasons
it is patronised by all ranks of people in England.
From the glevi number of communications con
llantly received by»Mr. Johnston, he is.under the
mqefiity (in laying them before the tvoßld) of a
bridjirvg their contents; the following lettters (al
rh::tj;h curtailed) are fj> very important, and the
Cuuaiurcs so veiy refpfyilable, that he conceive" he
fbauld be doing injustice to Whitehead's EJfence ef
MuJlar J, were he to withhold them fr-um public in
fpecliou.
Letter from Mrs. Mills, Housekeeper to the Duke
of Cumberland.
Sir, Nov. 1, 1795.
A moll inveterate Rheumatism and Lumbago
(occeafioned by laying in a damp bed, when at
Bruflels, in the suit of Her Royal Highness the
Dutchcfs of-Cnmberhnd) hi* affliiUd me eighteen
years. I have employed the fir ft medical gentle- j
men sn London, and (although I derived no bene
fit} am bound to acknowledge my gratitude to fe
vtral of the nobility, who knew my deplorable fl
tintion, and humanely sent me their phyiicians ; I j
have a'.fo trud noli advettifed medicines. At
length, fir, after eighteen years excruciating I
tOriure, a few bottles of your Whitehead'' EJfence 1
of Mujlard, have, I thank God, restored me to the
iiieftimable bleflings et health and permanent ease.
Yours, mvich obliged,
No. 134, Jermyn-ftreet.Sk James's. S. MILL"?
Copy of a letter from G. Countess, esq. Captain of
His Majesty's Ship the Detiaius,
Sir, Spithead, Nov. ?, 1795.
As I cxpeA to fail in a few days, t beg you will
immediately forward me a d*len of Whitehead's
bjfer.tt of Mallard, h gives me considerable fatif
failion to inform you, I have myfelf experienced
its good effeils, and have in fevcral instances of
Rheumatisms, Sprains, and Bruises, witneffed.ite
sftonilhing efficacy. 1 think you would consult
your own interest by appointing it to be fold at
rortfmouth, and all other feiports ; syr you may
reft afTured, when this iavaluable fpecific becomes
generally known, not an Officer in His Majesty's
Navy will go to sea without'it.
Yours, &c.
G( COUNTESS.
Sir, - Dec;-eo, 1795.
A fevers stroke otthe Palsy, fix months ago, de
prived me of my fpecch, and the use of one fide,
la this desperate situation, Whitehead"l EJfence of
Mujiardwas very (lrongly recommended, and, 1
thank God as fuccefsfally applied. By perfevcring
in its use alhorttime, I Was completely restored,
and continue to enjoy the full and pctfe<ft use of
my facolties, although near eighty years of age.
Yours, W. FRANCIS,
No. 14, Arabella-raw, Pimlice.
Mr. Francis has held a public situation at
the Guildhall in the city of Westminster, many
years, and is well knewn te the generality of the
refpcflable inhabitants.
Letter from A. McCan Ifq. Capt. of the 60th re
giment, dated Fort George, Guerirfey,
Sir, fan. 4, 1797
Upwards of five years pad I have been alHiited
with a mod violent Rheumatic Affedion in my
head, which has baffled the fklll oi the most emi
nent Phylicians; foTie months since I was induced
to try your Whitehead' EJfence of Mujiard. I am
now happy to inform you, it has done me essential
service.and I think itneceffary to eclare, no other
medicine ever gave me the fmalUft degree of relief,
lam with regard,yours,&c. &c.
Capt. 60th Regt. A. McCAN.
August, 179J:
Mr. Middleton, of Chefterfield-ftreet, St. Ma
ry-le-bone wasfo severely affli&ed with the Rheu
matic Gout, as to be unable to move in my bed for
fixmonths; his limbs were enormously fwelled,and
at length from exeeffive pain became quite black,
in this distressing situation he was induced to try
your Whitehead's EJfence of Mujiard; the £ffe& far
cxcaeded the most sanguine expectation, his pain
was immediately alleviated, and his limbs rsturnod
to their natural colour ; his,appetite restored, and
in a very Ihort time he wa» enabled to leave his bed
and walk with crytches; and by a few weeks per
severance, was completely restored to the full en
joyment of perfeft health.
Mr. Middleton, with his son. repeatedly
called as he got better, on Mr. Johnfton, an# de
clared that his life was utterly defpaircd of.
Refpe&ed Sir, Nov. 6. 1795.
Palling by a croud, in the fifth month of her
pregnancy, my wile received a dreadful blow on
her fide, which apparently destroyed the life of the
infant ; after the most Ikilful advice, and trying
various remedies for two months, Ihe still found
the symptoms increase to an alarming degree ; spit
ting of blood—lhortnefs of breath—and other dif
agfeeahlfrcircumftapces appeared from so violent a
bmife, afforded only the fatal appearance ol her
speedy diffelution. A friend to whom I related
her fad cafe, having experienced great benefit from
your Whitehead's EJfence of Mujiard, kindly present
ed me with a bottle ; to my unspeakable fatisfac
tion, it fpedily relieved her from pain ; a lecond
bottle has removed every disagreeable symptom,
and with the most heartfelt gratitude I inform you,
we have tjie happy profpeil of her long continuing
a living mother to our numerous family.
Yours, &c. T. HURLOCK;
V'hitmoreVrow, Haxton.
It is prepared (only) and fold, in Pills and in a
Tluid state, at one dollar each box or bottle, by
R. Johnston, Apothecary, no 20, Greek street,
Soho, London ; and is also fold by, his appoint
ment, whokfale and retail, by G. SHAW, t3" Co.
no. 119, Chefnut-ftreet, Philadelphia, who have
just received a large quintity, per the William
Penn, and to whom, persons deliroas of vending,
are desired to apply.
CHILBLAINS.
Whitehead's EJfence of Mujiard generally cures
C>! 11IV) 1 a,ins aud common Rheumatisms, on the fir.l
or Second application, and often removes the most
violent Sprains and Bruises, in two or three days.
Caution. —A Certificate is parted on ea-h bottl"
and box, and to prevent the of counterfeits,
another certificate is also flgiedbyG. Shaw & Co.
of Philadelphia.
Shaw & Co. havealfo imported by the William
Penn, a quantity of Gowland's Lotion for the face ,
and (kin —Balsam of Honey for coughs, sfthmas
and confuniptions—Church's Cough Drops, and a
variety of other Patent Medicines.
• november 15. 'f&wjt I
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpe«sls to his Friends, and the
Public in general, informs them that he hasopen -xl.
an Office, athishoufe, No. 88, Spruce street, for
thepurpoleof iranla&ing bufniefs in the line of
CommilTion and Agency, collecting rents and out
standing claims in any part of the United States
He flatters himself, that from his long residence in
this country and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cices will be found worthy the no-, ice of those who
may please to confide to him the management of
any of their concerns.
N* B. where required.
nth mo 24 . 3 tav -f
~ FOR SJLE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South
Watcr-ftrect, »
A general affortmsnt of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins t
do. LvteflrifigS
Do. d» Handkerchiefs
Do. doi fewirtg Silks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and ihort Naakeens
Quicksilver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
AfTortad Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanua Sugars, in boxes
Mousses, in hog(head»
St. Croix Rum arfci Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter casks
Red, ycliowand pale Barks, in chests
\ Logwood, &c.icc.
_nrv 7.—tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
For Sale, by the Package,
For ca(b, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
viz. " \
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain")
stripes. and Checks I iIT . , .
. 1 * , n- . , I Auorted in
do. do. 1 amboured ,
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | P l '' a S es "
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz mnflin for home and the Weft
India market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do, common purple and
chintz shawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few fcotchcambricks and an
aflbrtment of muflinbythe piece.
The whole of the above being a consignment
from the mandfa&urers in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackburn's
Office, No. 64, South Secsnd Street.
Nov. 6. . lawtf.
NOTICE. ~~
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States, are informed that according to the
statute of Incorporation a general Eleflion for
twenty five Diredlors will be held 3t the Bank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firft day of January next at ten
o'clock in the toreuoon.
And pursuant to the Eleventh feilion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the faiJ Bank
arc hereby notified to afiemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
vening.
By order of the Board of directors,
G. SIMPSON, Calhier.
Second fundamtntal Article.
Not more than three fourths of ti}e Direflors
in office, exclusive wf the President, shall be e
lagible for the next succeeding year, but the
Direflor who (hall be President at the time of an
F.leflion always be re-ele<£lcd.
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797. ftE
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAPs
and EDWARD FOX'S 'Engagements
IN confequente of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumftincesfrora
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to iffye the fame to tbofe who may ap
ply within sixty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linqijifhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
November, 13. tuth&fim.
WTTTTcTE.
THE partneitfhip between John Ins Tone and
James Bacon, under ths firm oflnftoneand
Bacon, is this day didolved by mutual consent.
All persons who stand indebted to said firm are
requested to make immediate payment of their
rofpeAive accounts, to John Sktrin, on Landen
burger's wharf, who is duly autborifed to receive
the fame ; and all persons having any demands a
gainst the said firm, are desired to bring in their
accounts immediately to him for settlement.
John Injtone,
James Bacon.
novepiber 40. eodtf
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
' Brown Hollinds
White Sheetings
Dowlafles
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siamoufes
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glafles, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
November 6. eodjw
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Alfa, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, confiding of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and f«rge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glafles, Pu.riice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, ftanJ and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
Apprentices Wanted.
November 3. f&tutf
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Tg now in the press, and will be publilhed,
with all'convenient expedition, by ZfcCHA
RIA H Poulsdn, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposal), until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. jawtf
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than anyt>ther in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the fuigle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
(lore of the Subfcribcrs, cornei of Arch and Front
ftreet.
James C. C3 5 SamuelW. FHher.
Philadelphia, June;}, 1797.
English Grammar,
The feconti edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different cUlTes of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules 4nd oh
ferva'ions for nffifting the more advanced (ludents
to write with perspicuity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully
anfwets the profeflions in the Title. Ihe appen
dix contains some of the best rules for writing e
legantly, and with propriety, that we recoiled to
have seen."
Monthly Re-view, July 1796. "
" This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to conimenditoiy netiee, its materials have been
carefully and judicinufly
is dillindl and well adapt.d to the purpose of in
ftrtiAjoji and its cnpredion i 9 Cmple, perspicuous
and accumte, &c,."
See the character at large in the Analytical
Review, July
1 English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar Wely puhlifhed by
Lintllcy Murray, confiding of exemplification of
the parts of speech, inftancesbf falfe orthography,
violations of the rules of fyncax, detects in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpe&irig
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f«r the benefit
of private learners, as well as for theufe of schools.
" W« have been much pleafcd with the peiufai
of these Exercises. They occupy with diftinguifti
ed excellence a mod important place in the fciencc
of the English language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend thejn to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
attaining corre&nefs and precifton ii> their native
tongue."
Mo Jit ply Rfvieifrt Jnly 1797.
The above Books are forfale at Joseph & James
Crhkshanks book ftorc, No. 87, Market ftrect.
December I. 3tawzw.
NOTfCI
AI.L persons concerned are hereby notified,
that the fiitfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of tho United States—He for*
warded them under cover of a letter addressed to
John Anfley.of London, by the ship Bacihus, capt.
George, which left .this port in June lift for Lon
don. But that Clip having been captured on her
[ pafiage and Tent to Franc#, the above letter and 111-
closures have failed in their defoliation.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four flureSj dated January I ft, 1797, and
issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHfcUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, nwember 8. law6w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOU3E, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. • Inquire »f th« Printer.
O<5L 17. eotf
A Compting House to let.
A Mod convenient Compting House is now for
hire on Rofs's wharf, directly over the arch.
Far terms, apply to 1
Samuel Bred, jun.
No. 89, south Third street.
Where may be had,
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about too
pieces of ftoutCanvafs ; a (mall quantity of Mace,
and some high proof Brandy ; Sherry Wine, Cho
colate in boxes, Window Glass of various sizes
and dimenflens. Dec. |—eo6t
Samuel Sc. Miers Fiftier,
ARE NOW OPENING,
At th«ir Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefli
alTortmcnt of Woolen and other goods, Suitable to
the season, by the la-te arrivah from Eng
land.
Tkey lave f*r $mU,
I.ifbon
Sh
Port Wines, J
Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
10th mc 23d. diwjtaw3w.
James C. Samuel W. Fiftier,
at the:r stork.
No. 13, corner of Arch and Front streets,
HAri TOR SALS,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, assorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futt romall Handkerehi.fs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffrties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfa —1500 boxes best London Window Glass,
from Bby6,to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
November »8.
Imported (via New York) on the
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
falety the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut ilreet,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Chircouna Dorens
Chintz and Calitoes Dacca worked muslins
Gillis Romals Bindannoes
Nillas & Penfiafoes Chafla Romals
Blue sloth Hair ribbon
Mull Mullhankerchiefs Palemcotes
• Patna do. Banares Opium
Lesser Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
noveniber 47 tuths4w
FOR SALE, a 1
Joseph Anthony Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeauxßrandy, id and 3d
proof, 'just landed
250 bales of Bourbon cotton of a fuperiot quality
9 do. Sural, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon lndigx> of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine / In'pipes &
do. market do C qr. caika.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases ,
Spermaceti candlfes andftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax fcajmon in barrels and half barrels
Do, Herring in do do
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : *«n
i A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Rufiia fjather beds
Clover and.Timothy feed in :afks
Long whale-bone
No 1, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chsfts firft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hoUow glass war>;.
November 8. daw.
400,006 weight of choice S>t. Do
mingo CO I'FEE,
FOR SALE BY
' JAMES YARD.
novesiber 22. diet
» For Sale,
That well known place, called f.jNOEGitin's
f r R r Y,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Piila
ladelphia, on the IS'ew York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premifts are a large two ltory stone house occu
pied as atvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with agoedthrefbing 1
floor, and .some out buildings —also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
man's ftat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny toitsjun&ion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey fliore. It ha« the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the SahJ'criber,
MCJHDECAI LEWIS.
May 14- atawtf.
Fsr sale or to be let on ground
rent,
Attainable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eiftcorner of Wal
nut and Fifth fireets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-ftne feet front
on W al "ut street, and one hundivd and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
preferit two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Al/o, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
llreets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alfrey adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua-v
Hon for a merchant, flour fa<£lor,or others who
may have for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
Juji Publi/hed,
And to be had of MefTrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcliers io tV
city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June to. *6t
School Books and Stationary.
W. Y O~U NG,
No. Si, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-flreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large aflort
ment of English, French, Latin and Greet
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
ob Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHES,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dols.
. Ditto, large 12 mo. price I dol. 75 «ts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All fqrts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Patteboards,
fheathiHg and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ef
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous collection of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. Oft. 24. —3aw6w
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, rvcry Tut/day, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, ia the irorning; arrives at ne
ver the flrft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and ob
the marning of the fourth day the paffenger,s find
a f»fe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fetry,
every Tuefdiy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
MonJay, Wednesday and Friday ;'puts up at Snow
Hill the firft sight, at Dover the 2d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is io miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
Too muchcasinot befaid in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly epgage to return the whole fare to any.
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim, eotf.
City of Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
Far the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificentdwelling-houfe 30,000 dollars,
& caih 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto Is,ooo & cash *5,009 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto ro.ooo & calh 10,000 so,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
% do, s,oooeach,are, • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
20 do. 50° • • i«»ooo
00 do. too - - 10,000
210 do. 50 - - 10,000
4qo do. 45 " 10,000
1,000 do. 20 * - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 - »je,ooo
16,W9 Prizes.
33,261 Blankj.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tohvour thofewho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the priie of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approvednotes, fecu»ir>g payment in either
mon«y or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpqeimen of
the private buildings to be ere&td in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs 51 e already
ieleiled for the entire fronts 011 two of thepublic
squares; from these drawing?it ispropofed toereCl
two centre and "our comer buildings.as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the foxtunate .-adventurers, ir,
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction o.f five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print-
Mig, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Uoiverffty, to
be erefled within the city ot Washington.
The real fecuriticsgiven for the paymant of the
Brizes, are held by the President and two Dire.il
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued a(
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
„§ Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colsm
hia; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman; Boston : of Toho Hopkins, Richfnoml ;
iand of Richard Wslls, Cooper's Ferry. mwf
FOR SALE,
by the subscribers, No. at, Penn-ftreet,
Ihe Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, fiona Bengal,
Cm/Jling of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coffaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mtilmul do.
Guzzeiias Bandanno«s
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchfs Sooty do.
Oillic Romals Periians of various colours
Mock Pulicats
aoo tons" SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings ssf Francis.
The Piece Goods *
Of the Ganges are now open and exposed to sale st
that coramodious store the north well corner of
Market and Fourth street. Nov. xo;
~T LANDING,
From on board thelhip Cleopatra, Samuel Neyvell,
commander, from l>ondon,
60 tons of the best clean Russia
HEMP
60 Vafksof bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. as, Peiim-ftreet.
Willings y Fnancis.
OA. 31. d
Just arrived.
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sal? by the filtofcri
bers, No. ai, Penn-ftreet,
6m hogfheads,"\
543 barrets ( Prime Coff^
646 bags J
Willings £s* Francis.
OA. it. »
FOR SALE—by the Sd3scribers,
An elegant afl'ortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the bale.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
nov. ai. § Pcnn-ftreet
' FOR SALE; :
BY THE SUBSCRIBED,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes
Madeira Wine, Ncw*York quality, in pipes
Liftwn WINE, in pipe#
CLOVES and 7 e .u 1♦ a- * • 1
NUTMEGS \ 0 ■ e ' ate " importation, in boxes.
Spanifli Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. si.
Nov. x. w&stf
A Journeyman Hair-DrefTer,
WHO is sober and steady, and underftaiids
hU bufinel's, may have immediate em
ployment, »n application to GEORGE AB
BOTT, No. 9, Chefaut-ilreet. Nov.
eodnv.
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for lale by the fubferiber,
No. xr Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irilh market claret 111 cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wiue, in do. J Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quart* caflcs
Rota' do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. tut&stf.
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repoficory of the wtyks of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underllandtng, is opened daily, as
usual. It (lands in an airy and healthy situation,
and free from the epidemic that at present affli&s
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented With
. the greatest fafety.
As an Aiwufement, the (ludy of Nature is the
mod rational and plealing : as a Science, the nioft
sublime and inflru&ive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
44 IVlem Nature's ivorks can charm, ivitb God bimftlf
" Held convcrfe."
Many interring additions have lately been
made to v thn Museum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety jof the most rare and beautiful
fubjeds, is now very advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of them
1 calls from nature) arc here drclTed in their proper
habits, and placed in attitudes of tkeir
refpe&ive nations. Here may be seen the North-
American Savage,and the Savage of Sooth-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and "the Chincfe ,Gentle*
man —the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
with some Natives of the South Sea I Hands. The
immense variety and interesting diversity which
this Museum offers to the view, may be seen but
eannot be described with full efftfdt.
Price only I-4th of a dollar.
Seyt. aB. * ___ law
Law Bwlt Store,
No. 319, High.Strttt.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his profent house, has
been under thenecefiity of poftponinguntil this day
informingthegentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his fpriug importation of
law books v, now arranged and-ready for lale, <m
terms that he trusts will rntitlehim to th® like pre.
freence he has experienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues, oombining the most varied cojlec
lion ever imported iflto this country, are printed,
and will be delivered on application
-1 June 2.7- . law
Boston G.hfs Manufadory.
citizens of the United States lire hereby
j informed, that the jnanufailure of Window
Giafs is new commenced at the GlafaHoufe in Bol
ton.
It is fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to he in every reipeit
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
| It will be cut to any siZe commonly used ; and
itfay be conftanfly had by applying to Charles F.
- KuprEß, at the Glass House. /
Orders from the diftapt States to be addressed tb
Mr. SamCil Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30, 1797 0 4—2*w6w
Mifrs. Timothy and Mason, CharUJton ; Mfjfrt.
Hodge and 3»ylan, Halifax, N. C. AJeJrj.
and O'Connor, NarfM ; Mr. Ellit Price, Alexandria ;
MeJn.Yundt and Bro-wn, Baltimore ; Mr. Hof l.ns,
Netv-Ycri ; and M\ffrs. Hwdfa V Good-win, Hari:
fordi Mr, Seymour, Savannah ; aie rcqvefled to infect
the ahve once a week ( weeks. The aattunti i: it].!,
1 . ei i