3&stltZ of the & Philadelphia, Daily Advertiser.
Number 1355.] WEDNESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 11, 1797. [VOLUME XI.
NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Territory, heretofore
in the fcveral public papers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not foimer
fold.
January 4 §
for SAL E,
fact-failing febooner ORION f
Seventy tons burthen ; fifteen months
; her frame is of the befl of white
'oak : she is a Jaithftjl built vessel, handf'omely finifhed off
■und well found in every particular ; is ready to receive a
trargo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex
• >ence on her hull, fails or rigging : she flowsfii hundrtd
1.-inrcls ; has a handsome cabin and steerage, and a half
?ieck which will (low from feventy-five to eighjy barrels ;
has bcen r newly carulked, graved and painted. For terms
apply to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At: No. 170, corner of Market ahd Fifth-ftreets,
Or to the Captain on board said schooner at Messrs.
Willis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-flreet
wharf; where there is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the best of American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
Boston manufa&urcd Chocolate.
Dec«mb»r 26 * $
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship A'ancv,
Cuthbert Riggs, mailer. v
fail with all convenient fpecd. For
freight or pafiage apply to
William Bell ;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well afTorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens
25 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine i Indigo. Russia Matts.
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November ir, 1796, mwftf
for sale,
7HE sHip MARr »
SAMUfX PARKER, Mastih,
4£ 4 hundred ton? burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is notfojd in a few days, she will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Qftober 31. d
* ■» 1 — ■ '■
For Sale, or Charter,
|ln The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,'
Burthen ios 47*95 regiftcr, built in
gjSSIO Philadelphia in the year 179}, of live oak
and red cedar, and was ftieathed 13 months ago, she
has jult had 1 fompWat out-fit, and mjy be sent to fsa
at a very trifling expffnee.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin Elf Co.
irho haw far pie on board said vfffit,
27 calks of fine yellowpaiwt.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink (lands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial
llyfon, and, > TEAS.
Souchong J
40,000 piece. Nankeens of the fifll qaality.
19 tubs Qiiickfilver.
t chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chsfts Manehefler goodswell aflorted in Cor
dur»\-s, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
ISo crate's Queens ware well afTorted.
10 tons fneet lead.
Nails afTorted, flat and Iharp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in p'ipes
London Market, and hogfl , c!ld ,.
New-York Market, J
40 pipes and iohog(he»ds Teneriffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Hoot.
130 logs Mahogariy. .
Nov~ 7. tthScTtf
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-Jlrect.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
for railing Simy Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aftot
the Legidjture of Pennfylvaoia, palT:d during the lat)
ftflion, for baiiding a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20 000 Dollars • 20,000
1 do. of 10,000 do. - - 10.000
3 do. of 5 000 do. - J,5,000
4 do. of 2»ooo do - 8,000
20 do. of i,oco do. - - - so,oco
39 do. of 500 do. - - ty.tjOd
80 do. of 200 do. - - - 16,c00
200 do. of 100 do • 20,000
300 do. of 50 (ii| - 15,000
1 do. of 500 do to be paid the pofTef- )
for as the firft drawn 110. £
5 do. of 3,000 do to bepatd poirefforsJ
of the five last drawn nos \ 0
9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
10,054 Prizes 3©c,cot>
10,046 Blanks *
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollira 300,000
All Prises shall be paid fifteen days ifter tlie drawing ii
Snifhed, upon the demand of a pofleflor of a foriuustc
licket, fiibjeft to a deduflion of twenty per ccnt. the
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are difpof. <i
ot, or perhaps Comer, of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVilm/in,
/joseph Hiejler, James Diemer, Thomas DunHnt,
•fames May, John>Otto, John Keim, Daniel GrurJ,
Sctaftiia Miller, Commissioners.
-heading, May ine 9th, 1796
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. I, to be had at tht
above oflice, where the earliell inlormation of the draw
of the Washington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
ar" received, and eircck books for e*an«nation and rcgif
t.-ringap i.-J. t
«j4uber 7. ' _ Hftvtf
Elegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. 25, South Third-street.
December 15. dtf
thFsubscrlßer
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NF.VILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, er Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland in 1783, or 1784* arid carae into
this Country, ('tis fuopafed to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of the hrgheft importance, it wil! be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-fireet
December 31c w&f mi
For Sale,
By George Defcharnps, No. 91,
NOR-m SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and keg 9
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or fmgle one
P-ry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and ooarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December 1. $tf
Imported from London is" Liverpool,
EAR THEN WARE, ki.crates and ho<gfheads, well
aiTo'ted
Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all sizes
Two cases cf (htipnary
One chest of yellow Jcfuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small consignment of Rose Blanket 3* Flannels,
Baizrs, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains &c.
Paints of various colors.
Bafketfalt in hogsheads.
A Iso on hand,
Madeira wine, very i>ld, in pipes, hogsheads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different frees
A few trunks of ladies French shoes afTorted
Silk nankeen,&c.
Likewise an aflbitment of Dutch goo<*s, confiftinj of
ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, ftfipes, checks.
Morlaix fincn, platillas, ravens d.uck, iiwtannias, &c*
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas $9* John Kctland.
Walnut-iiieet Wharf.
Nov. 15. coif
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftrsej opposite the n.f.onal new Bank.
SAMUEL M FR. .UNCUS and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into ce-partnerfbip, under the fipm of
FRAUNXL'ES & VAN RF.ED,in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commifliou merchants. They buy and
fell-on commission ev*ry species of Reek,-notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houfc-, and lands, Sec.
Mojiet procured on deposits, See. &c. all kinds c'
writings iii the conveyancing liac, dohe with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjufteti, and b®oks> fettled, in the
mo ft correal manner. Cosflant attendance will be give*
They solicit a (hare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to ezideavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy obfrved.
SAMUKL :vl. FRAUNCES, \
JOHN VAN REED.
J?hilad. August 4y, 1796. ' ' m&wtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—ami prizes'paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and r gifteriag, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information whqre
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undvawo
tickets. A compiece lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fuWbriber solicit» the application of the public
and his frionds, who wife to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lancfs,
Scc. or to obtain money cn depofir of property.
%• Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early iri
the Spring.
Writ. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Ausuft 18. 1796. mth
S ALT PE T R E.
A large quanfcity of Double-Uefined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 15, South Third-street.
November 5.
A C A R 1).
If Monfteur G H. Sohle,
Who left Bordeaux the aeth June last, and arrived
at Boston f.bout the middle of Attgufi, in the fchboner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-flreet. who
will give him fomc information cf importance.
December 24, 1796. f
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and ftri'perl Spanish Swanfdown
Clouded Ermin2t9 and Mole&ins
Striped do. aad do
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Caflmets and Cafßmefes
Superfine printed Qinltings, newest
Alio, per different arrivals,'
A large and general aflbftir*ent of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching feaforv
November e. dtf
~ FOR SALE,
* About i,60c5 acres of I.arid,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Bcech Cr«<ks, Mifflin county, Pcnwfylvania, in
four fep2ratr Patents. For terms of sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
Nc. 44, S®nth S'-eorid-ftrtet
Gcloji-r lavvrtf
Frefl) Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c. &c.
Tliis day landing from the ihip Eagie, captain Fofdiok,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnpt and Second-streets,
A mofl capital and zxtenjive Ajfortmcnt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, Sic. &c.
Among which are,
Five kinds AfparagusjjThrec kinds Crefles
Four licrscolejiT Welve Onion
Twenty-five 3k s| j I'hirteen Radish
Si* Eeert; Fifteen Turnip
Eltven Brocoli||Fifte«* Peat
Twenty-Sk Cabbage :SLc Savoy
Six Carrat Four Parsnip
Three Caulifidwer i'wenty-threc Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Tea Cucumber
Common aud lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and /prigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallow
Raps Seod Rye Grass Saint Foia Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, Sc.c. Sec.
With a Curious collodion of the most cfteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOFS,
the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. dtf.
Just l anding,
At Soutb-Jlreet wharf from cn board the /hip Sedg
ley t Captain Hodge, from St. Piter/burg,
The following Goods :
Rpffiar Seil Duck, firil quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do- Huckaback.
Do. Crash.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 ahd 6, to of the
1 • Englith size.
Da. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soap in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
Ifingkij, ill acd and fort.
Hyrfe Mair uncurkd*
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Fioep Iron.
Do. Nail Rod*.
10. Tout Oakuin and Junk.
St. Peter (burg Cleen Hemp;
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond,. & Co.
o*aber 11. '
Cheap French China.
VTHI! fubfca-ibers finding it impolTible to supply their
Itore with any more China from France* the prices
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no
tice that rkey will fell at priw*<f cast /the remaining
iieck on hand, tonfifting of
Defiert Setts,
Tea-Tabic Setts,
Separate Cups and Saucers
Grouper and Figures
Alabaster Vases
Looking GhJTe?, in gilt frames*-
Besides India Jnpan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER oc Co.
No. 91, South becond-ftreex.
l)efember rth, tts
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Ce.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Coafifling of different fjrfs, from \ i inch cables down
k to rope of 1 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ihip iiwiit, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27 dtf
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. Is, South Third-ftre«t,
Mas just peeeived, per Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an assortment of
Scarlet
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed with lur and
Purple and C ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. §
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGK-STKEET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A fVe/l Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdalliery Goods,
Which he wili fell, wholesale and retail, en the vefy
low eft terms ;
Amongji ivbrch are
Some elegant 474 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottont, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muflin'i
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Dkto Neckcloths, very fine
Msntuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hoficry
tlmbreHat of the firft quality, slfofted
Irith Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marleiflcis a-nd Cotton Counterpanes
Role Blaukits afforteii—&c. &c.
o<stot)cr 26. d
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 3)3 , HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his proteflidnal friend*,
and the Gentlemen ot tjie Law, generally, through the
Union, thai his late importation of ROOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a fingfe volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which for several years paA have in so diltihguiihed a
manner recommended iit<n»-lo notice.
Printed Catalogues combinu g the most extensive collec
tion cf the latctt Jipgltlh 2nd lr:lb Lditiens ever imported
into this country, aic and will be delivered giatis
on application.
Qjders addnffed to G. D. in wiirfng from any'diftaoce
shall be pnndluaily attended to.
A number oi TRUNKS for Sale.
AL&O, TO BE LET,
A convenient i , near M,i ket iw<et Wharf,
oviß>. vt&fam
WAN T E D,
A MECHANIC) to ere<fl Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such as are used 3t my manufac
tory—Apply to J.iMES DAVENPORT,
No. 401, North Front-street.
N. B. None riee<} apply but a Complete mechanic#
and a man of stability.
Globe Mfl/, December it) 1 $
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial r Hyson Skin.
Hyson, C Freih Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyfonj J {.Bohea
; Dec. 9. 3taw3m.
! ———— —; ——:— a
The Lyceum, for free Debate,
In the College-Hall.
On Wednesday Evening next the 1 ith Jaduary,
following question will be debated.
(The Chair to be taken at seven o'clock.)
M is the traffic in and holding of slaves conCftent with
44 humanity, morality, liberty, or policy : or dii'graceful
i 4 to any nation that fan<stiofi» or tolerates it.**
The question ollaft Wednesday on the establishment
of a National University, was debated by numerous
and rcfpe&able company, and decidcd in the negative ;
only fiye in the affirmative.
The Trufleea of the University have been pleased Co
fuvor this inftitutlon with the use ot the College-Hall; and
Mr. Fennell in the fame liberal spirit, giving the use of
the accommodations provided for his Le&ures; th« ma
nagers of the Lyceum think it proper thus publicly to ac
knowledge their refpe&ive Tense of this liberality thus
ptlblicly.
Additional fires fball be provided in the Hall during the
remainder of the cold fcafon, and ladles and gentlemen
coming early may be accommodated with comfortable
fcati
The managers finding the receipts Of the firft evening
exceed their expenditures, think it proper to notify, that
the Surplus of that and future evening, will be ap
plied to some ufeful, public, or charirable purpose.
Admittance for Ladies & Gentlemen i-Bth of a dolla
Jan. 6. dtw. f *
Philadelphia, Jan.yh, 1797.
All persons indebted to the Estate of
Joseph Paschallj deceased,
ARE requested to pay their refpe&ive debts without
further .delay, otherwile their accounts will be put into
the hands of to recover—And all those whd
have any demands againil said Eftaie are deftred £o bring
in their accounts for fetdemcnt, ts
SAMUEL CO ATES, *
CHRISTR. MARSHALL, j«n I Ex*rf.
CHARLES MARSHALL. ) eox
Furntfhed Apartments; or
Beard £3* Lodging.
WANTED by two young gentlemen. Arowets#
wjfh particulars, to be addrelfed to S. F. at the office
los this paper.
January 4.
Public Notice*
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this slate, to supply the
defeat in my Title to a lot of ground, fitnate on the Weft
fide fcf Fourth-street, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Weft ward, by
ground of the fuMcriber, Southward by ground 6f Edward
Shippen, and jEaftward by Fourth-street, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewi#
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneuy.
—-All person? concerned, are required to appear before
two of the juflices of the said court, at the hopfe of
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief Jaftice of the state, on
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
answer tothi bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office, of
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary 6f the laid court.
WILLIAM SHIPREN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dt^oth
For Sale*
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STRfiET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Dire<f}ors th's day, a dividend sf
sixteen dollars on each fh ire wai declared for the lad
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafl.ler.
Jan. 3. dtf.
— — — «■ ; --3
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, bf 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler*, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting ~S I
teTU < »!-»•>•
ii Spanish Brown J
For Sale by P£TER BLIGHT.
January 4 j
The Elephant*
Now exhibited* was bought for Ten Thoiffaritf
'Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet highj growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel ©F
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter*
drawirig the «orks with his trunk.
He is porfedtty inoffenlive; travels loose, at the
rate of five mile 6 an hour, and is the greatest Curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—•
after Which time the former price of half a dollar will
be refumedf
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weathe/
will permit.
December 31 dNew Theatre!
THIS EVENING, January 11,
Will be presented, >
A COMEDY, called
The Wonder;
Or, A Woman keeps a Secret.
Don Lopez, Mr. Warrell
Don Felix, Mr. Moreton
Frederick, Mr* Fox
Don Ped%), Mr. Francis
Col. Briton, Mr. Warren
Gibby, Mr. B/iJ/ett
Liflardo, Mr. Harwood
Alguazil, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Vafqucz, Master Warrell
Soldier, Mr. Darley, jun.
Donna Violante, Mrs. Merry
Donna Isabella, Mrs. Warrell
Flora, Mrs. Francis
Ini*, -Mrs. Harvey
To which will be added, a F A R C E, called
A Mogul Tale-;
Or, The Descent of the Balloon.
Great Mogul, Mr. Moreton
Do&or Pedant, Mr. Francis
Omar, Mr. Fox
Seiim, Mr. Warrell
lit Guard, Mr. Darley t jun.
ad Guard, Mr. J. Warrell
Johnny Atkins, Mr. Bates
(Being his firft appearance this season.)
Zaphira, Miss Oldfield
Irene, Mrs. Harvey
Sheba, Miss Melbourne
Fanny Atkins, Mrs. Franeis
BALL.
AVtu Cotillions, "Seotch Reels, and Centre Dances.
*
Meflrs. Francis and Byrti beg leave to "inform thtir
scholars, friends, and the public in general, that their
firft *felj for 'his season will be on TtieTday, the 24, at.
O'Ellers's assembly-room ; at which a variety of new
Cotillions, Contrc Dances, and the roofl celebrated
Scotch Reels, will be introduced.
Mefrs. Francis and Byrn propose to give gratuitous
attendance at their school room, for the inftru&ion of
those Ladies and Gentlemen in their new dances, who
mean to honor the hall room with their prefence,—■at
tendance for this purpose after their school hours, on
Tuesdays, and Thursdays.
Tickets to be had of Meflrs. Frmces and Byrn No.
70, North Eight street, or at O'Ellcrs's Hotel. La
dies arc requeued to apply to their female friends,
scholars of Meflrs. F. & B. or as above, at their resi
dence.
N. B. The new dances will not infringe upon the.
usual routine of the evening.
The day* of teaching for their young pupils are Thurf
days an<* Saturdays, from three o'clock in th« afternoon
till fix—and on Fueidays & Thursdays, from fix till nine,,
for-thofe of a mors-advanced age.
* Private tuition as usual.
January ir, 1797. 3awti4.
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNELL
Refpe&fully informs the Public,, that
On THURSDAY EVENING, Jam at 7 o'clock,
"Will be delivered,
(first part) s
THE EFFEC TS OF REVENGE,
Exemplified by fclegions from the
chara&er of Zanga, Dr. Young
(second part)
THE PROGRESS OF JEALOUSY TRACED
In the character of Othello, Shakespeare
During which will be recited
fpecch to the Senate
The celebrated fc«ne with lago
And the-moft firtking paflages during his piroxyfm of
jcaloirfy
(third part.)
THE EFFECTS ©F JEALOUSY,
Exemplified in
Othello's foliUquies before and after the murder of
Defdemona
Alonzo's soliloquies before asd after the death of
Leonora
With critical obfer vat ions en the authors.
Subscriptions arc received by Mr.Zachariah Poulfon,
jun. at the Library, whers»the Ladies and Gentlemen
who ruay be inclined to honor the undertaking with
their patronage, are refpeftfully requested to fend
their names and receive their tickets.
Occasional admifiion ticksts to be had of Mr. Poulfon,
Jun. at the Library ; at mr. M'Elwee's looking-gbfs-ftore,
No. 70, South Fourth-street; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
fellrr, Market-ftrcet—Half a dollar each.
Mas. G R A TTA N
RcfpeAfully informs her friends, and the publie in
general, that on Tuesday the icthday of January,
ihe proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixtn
ltrevt, a
Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6fs to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 5/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/10 per yard
Fine Cofiaes
Book Muslins, from 13/9 to ai/per yard
India Muslin, from ii/j to ij/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconct wiuflin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Book mtiflin Handkerchiefs frem 5/3 to io/6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs ,
Tambour'd Cravats from I</8 to Xi/ll
Pocket Handkerchiefs -
Cambric, from n/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloaths
Hurjcahick Towelling:
Women's Cotton Hole, from -6/3 to 13/ per pair
Dimity from 5/10 to tfn
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from ii/ii to
Irifli linens for Osntlen'en'f Shirts, frem a/ii to \f
And a variety of other articles.
N.' B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, ,Gentlemen'* Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c. >
Houfhold Linen, &c. &c.
January 9. 8
Boarding and Lodging
Mr.y be had at No. 61, Penn-flreet, in a creditable
feraily «s-
January 9
List as Phizes and Blanks in the\
Wajbington Lottery, No. 11.
jid Days Drawing, December $1.
-N*. Delj. So. Vols. No D*ih No. Dolt.
8» 10768 ' J 75*1 »&
jti 989 570 668
. 487 HJ9° *SS <85
Jjo 6si 44683 10 3*136
SSI 87* «JIS» jo 398 10
614 H329 -449 i» 658
Soj 386 is jBB 49184
857 43* *01 so 9">
947 JJ3»3 *86 40633 v
132; KOl9 le ,»7»96 939 »o
36* 10 065 jlO to 41061
J39 746 566 436 ro
705 .769 10 996 381
796 I* 13096 18007 1°
841 470 10 070 4*556
853 784 10 816 43646 I*
>762 826 419887 "844
3134 16066 30334 44800
77» 641 781 j» , 45467
4134 10 1710 a 31010 50a
3°7 834 189 i« 4615.5
989 18419 565 296 10
5421 867 10 *04 54;
663 1933® 32521 47358
633 910 888 443 20
7SS %oiil 921 473
8o» 75° 33 3 74 7»5 10
7010 15 955 ia 307 483*1
113 21077 is 601 414 *ia
138 659 10 801 ia 600
331 911 20 989 10 674
773 >» 5»I48 34504 937
829 10 411 663 4920^
9979 508 35012 4*o 10
942 xo 326 36301 439
10293 10 83! "37*5* <«9 '»
444 13041 275
<79 35» i« 4*l
53d Diys Drawing, Januiry 2.
No. Dots. No. Dots. No. Dq!s No. Dei.
139 20 10882 27172 38309
553 9 88 10 579 559 ">
ICSO 12090 691 10 870 io
875 13142 10 914 39051 ja
2752 10 715 19172 io 83-6
3390 10 836 611 48177 jo
SS' 14676 998 20 463
987 876 ia 30276 41499
4161 15091 « 668 ia 42199 is
"7 535 956 " 44i
5380 10 16752 31487 637 la
6146 17371 633 10 747
150 10 949 33173 10 44473 »®
'SS 18750 46l 45CT9
361 TO 19137 34514 IO 023
431 2® 453 35542 667
763 io 20841 36057 967
7123 *1748 060 4^*ll
187 916 ia 151 47103
8058 12800 201 432
339 10 24\43 5® 606 , 787 20
474 »J°79 974 48869
586 871 37651 960
9043 10 939 964 10 49905
30108 *6333 38124 999
CONTINUATION OF
Late Foreign Intelligence.
BOTZEN, Ofiober 22.
The troops who are in Mantua with field-marlhal
Wurmfur, amount to JJ,OOO men. The want of
provifitins in that fortrefs becomes more alarming
to the fnldiers, among whom contagious fevers
have unfortunately made (hocking havock. The
furroundiag diftnAs are totally exhauftcd. The
French are not provided with a fufficicnt heavy
ordnance. General Alvinzi ilrains every nerve to
colleA a force fufficient to relieve Mantua.
HAGUE, Oft. 2;.
At present the basis of the conftitutien of eur
republic has been unanimously agreed upon by the
committee of constitution (except only one diflcnt
of citizen Kafteele of Haarlem.) The unity of
the Seven Provinces in regard of their exterior po
litical concerns is therein admitted, but not unity
refprfting finances and the confel'dation of debts,
since some Provinces as Holland and Zealand are
heavily in debt, and other provinces not. The le
gislative body is divided inta two councils, the one
of which cenfifts of 30 and the other of 60 mem
bers. The dirediory or council of state or execu
tive will consist of 7 members (like in the formsr
government) representing the 7 provinces.
This plan of our new constitution will be read
in the Convention on the Ift November, and the
members will be allowed 14 days for its considera
tion. Then they will have to accept or to rcjeft it
in a mass. If rejefled ten new members will be
added to the 21 who have hitherto fat on this com
miflian. These will have to make another report
within 4 weeks, and the discussion will then recom
mence and last perhaps 3or 4 months. The Snal
farftion of the people in their primary aflemblire
is then to ensue.
Very animated debates are expefled between the
parties of Fcderalilts and the Unitaries, as now
called.
HAGUE, OSober 29.
The day before yesterday a letter was read in the
convention, from Batavia, dating that the English
had taken all our fettletnents in the Eaft-Indics,
except Batavia and two fettlenaents in Java.
PARIS, October 16.
Suicides happen now daily here, in particular
amonglt thofc who depend on their rents of the
poblic funds, and who are reduced to a miserable
fltuatian. The dbefore yesterday a mother with
a beautiful dauglttei of 18 years, precipitated
themselves ant of the 4th (lory of their dwellings.
The mother was fond dead on the spot, and the
daughter furvVed her only a few hours. Meafurej
are however taken at the treasury, to begin with
the paymtnt of a fourth part of these rents. [
Citizen Quatrcmere Dmfional, Lieutenant Co
lonel i» the service of the Batavian republic, has
invented a machine by means of which blind per
sons can spin hemp. The'invention is so far im
proved upon, that our soldiers also who loft their
arms and legs in the army, may do the fame work.
O&obcr 18.
The dire&ory has sent the following meflsge to the
cuuMil ef fire hundred, ob account of the fuc
cefsfn! retreat of General Moreau from Suabia
Ciriiens Legiflarors,
The directory hastens to communicate to yoi)
the TOiKtary operations on the easterly frontiers.
The result is one of the most decisive in the course
of this campaign, and thefuccefi alore could fe
curethe numerous victories of our armies on the
Rhine, and with precifiou decide, which party
would "finally reap the fruits and advantages of fa
many great efforts. The army of the Rhine and
Mofell*., which by the retreat of general Jourdan's,
found her left wing exposed, when before the gates
of Munich, and afterwards fiirroanded from all
parts, has returned in the order to the bor
ders of the Rhine. The fame army has not only
been fuffered to be eftablilhecf but also aiinnyed the
enemy by every occasion, and fnuglit their way
through every difficulty, and finalfy penetrated in
two columm as far as Huningen and Frybourg, af
ter a glorious victory (at Schaffenried) whereby
they made 5000 piifouers and took 20 cannon—
having thus made a campaign at the expence of the
\ enemy ; fepatated most all princes of the empire
from the coalition, and favored by a vigorous di
version the ißvafion of Italy. The fame army re
mains matter of the Brifgau, of all the bridges up
on the Rhine, of all the roads and pipes whiih con
duct to the enemy'B territories. Posterity will re
cord this remarkable retreat amongst the most fa
mous actions that have been ever executed. It
does the greatest honour to the army of the Rhine
and Mvfelle, and to their modest generals. The
enemy is after hit hazardcus motions, in such a
confufion, that it is permitted to us to expect yet
frelh and very favourable advantages.
(Signed) LA REVEILLE RE LEPAUX, Prefi.
OSober 20.
General Jourdaa is expe&ed to arrive this day
tt Bcuxellei from Liege.
LONDON, Nov. t.
ADMIRAL MANN's FLEET.
Extraft-of a letter from on boaid his majesty's (hip
Windsor, of 98 guns, to his father in Leith,
dated Gibraltar Bay, O&ober 9.
" I received your letter upon our arrival at this
place a few days ago, after a very providential and
narrow escape from Spanish captivity. We have
been up the Mediterranean since 1 wrote you last,
and failed about a month ago from Coriica with our
squadron, confilliag of seven fail of the line. We,
met the Spanilh fleet ten leagues to the eastward of
Cape dc-Gatt. 1 heir foice confided of twenty
three of thelargeft (hips perhaps in Europe. That
day they captured atf Engli(h lugger, and made all
poflible fail after us with our small squadron run.
ning to the westward, preparing to give them a
warm reception if they came up rf?th us. They
chaced us 250 miles, during which time we were
41 hours at quarters. Had they come up great
flanghtermtift have ensued. Admiral Mann's bra
very is well known, and I heard him fay, that they
fhoiild purchase the fiiipe very dear. We loft two
of the trartfports which we had under convoy, and
had it not been for the superior failing of our (hips,
they mull have taken or funk us all. When we got
into this bay, their van (hips were but three or four
miles distant, and the body of their fleet not far
off."
The Britifli naval force in -the Mediterranean
co.ififts of 28 fail of the line, eight of which are
three deckers, twenty-five frigates and eleven Hoops.
The Tunisian ambassador leaves this conntry im
mediately, without having succeeded in th« object
•f his million. 1 hat was to recover a compensa
tion for a vessel captured by some of onr (hips of
war. containing presents of the French to the bey.
Our government offered his excellency a frigate tp
convey him home, which he declined, and he has
hired a neutral vessel for that purpose.
A neutral vessel, sent into Harwich, by one of
admiral Duncan's cruiiers, left AmUerdam on Sa
turday last, has brought advice that the French ar
my of the Sambre and Meufe had advanced to
wards the Lahn, and were prepaiing to attack the
Aultrians, stationed is the vicinity of Neuwied and
Ehrenbreitftein. Their polts extended along the
Mumerbach, and to Dredorff in the Wederwalt.
Many (kirmiflies had taken place in the Hundfruck,
terminating generally to the advantage of the Au
ltrians, and who in the Palatinate had extended
tl.emfelves within a (hort diftanee of Keyferflau
tern. The advance of a strong column of the re
publicans, comprising thegarrifon of Landau, and
l'everal battalions of national guards, had obliged
general Hotze to retire into the neighborhood" of
Spires. The archduke Charles had removed his
head-quarters to Baden, and withdrawn his forces
from the neighborhood of Kehl, with which Mo
re, a, whose front extended te Offcnbuurg, had ef
fe&cda communication.
November 10.
Yesterday his majesty (igned an order in council
granting letters of marque and reprifais agaisil ali
(hips aud veffcls belonging to the fubjetfs of the
king of Spain. We understand there will be no
cotfnter-declaration on the part of our court, to the
manifefto of the eourt of Madiid, nor indeed does
it require any j the reafpns assigned in it are too
frivolous to need a reply.
It is a very curious circtimftance, that most of
the troops taken on boaid the Duch fleet at the
Cape arc deserters from the Audriaa army duiing
the campaign of 1794.
The following is the amount ol the National ex
pence during the present year, as hid before the
Houie of Commons.
Navy £. 6,767,460 1 2
Army ".9 0 7.399 9 10
Ordnance «>9J9.8;0 ig 8
The sundries makes up •-
the Aim total 25,830,676 10 101-2
Trinflated for the Gazette of the United States,
From Hamburgh papers, received by an arrival' at
New-York-
FRANCE.
A letter from th> crnmifariej of the government ■with
the army as Italy to the DireSory, dated head
quarters, at Modena, l6th Vendemaire tilth of
Q3oher). K ' J
Citizen Dirictors,
We have given you an account, some days ago,
of the arrival' of one part of the patriots of the
ifltnd of Corika, who were of those delhned to the
expedition ; and likewise of the movements which
the republicans of the inner tenitory have made,
and finally of the departure of general Gentili,
with the rett of the emigrants of Corsica, which
had united themselves at Livorne.
To-day we make hade to give you an account
of the happy intelligence, that the Englilh finding
it impoflible for them to stay any longer upon the
island, were forced to evacuate it. This intelli
gence, besides tlie treaty wittf Spain, the captiite
of Livorne, the embargo of the Genoese sea ports
againlt the Englilh, and the energy of the republi
cans who went to Corsica, willseftore the commerce
of Matfeillcs and the southern parts of France to
its original splendor and prosperity. May those
inhabitants of Corsica who had the misfortune of
being misguided by the Engli(h, serve those for an
example who may yet be tempted to tely up6n
those ifianders.
SALICETTI & GARRA^U.
General Gentili wrote, likewise, »n tlie 15th
ultimo, to the commiflaries of the government,
Saliaetti and Garrau, and gave them intelligence
that the Englilh had avacuated Corsica, to which
the landing ef a great partyof Corficansconlributed
very much.
The daily officii! Jbetl of the Journal des Defenfeurt
de la Patrie contains {he following :
ARMY OF ITALY.
The calutjuiies which are so of t i fyread abroad
and were so often refuted by the vidtoiies of ge
neral Buonaparte are only toys of the agitators and
others who mean to deceive the crednhus.
The enemies of the Republic, the Royalii'S and
the adherents of anarchy, rally their forces ant] u.
nite their endeavors to make those believe, what
may disturb thegood citizens ami the trire friends
of government. The new reports of a sally of
Wurmfer with part of his army in Mantua and his
pretended advantages over the Yepublicans are of
this kind. Italy fees Buonaparte her conqueror,
ever glorious, and (he will fee Wurmfer and his
army prisoners of war. The expedition to Corsica
(hews fufficiently the superiority of the force he
commands.
General Bournonville has f*nt an Jccount from
the head quarters at dated the 23d in
stant, of the' crofting of the Rhine, which the
Auftrians attempted on the 22 irritant at night, at
Neuwied, &c. (This account agrees in the whole
with that of the French already pnhlilhed ) Among
other artisies it is that all of the enemy who
eroded the Rhine at Neudorff wrt,e eitlser killed,
taken prisoners or drowned. On the left wing of
the Rhine were left in our liaod3 1,000 prisoners,
400 whereof were wounded. Those that were
drowned are edimated to be 3 or 400, and the lofj
r<r the.enemy on the'right wing must have been
extraordinary great, as they received from ths
bridge battery a mod aftonidiing site. The troops
under general Kleber and Grenier have diliinguilh
ed themselves mod wonderfully.
From Cadiz we learn that on the Bth instant,
the Spanish admiral Langara has taken some En
glidi men of war in the Mediterranean sea, and
that if he had had orders of hr.Qility 24 hours
sooner, he could have taken the" English division of
admiia! Maim, confuting of five (hips of ajie line,
with a convoy of 4000 men. In Eltremadura will
be raised a Spanish amp confiding of 60,000 men.
The Englidi (hips which admiral Lan'grra has
taken are one of 50 cannon anu 2 eorv; es. The
English men of war whicih hto k,v up ihe port as
Carthageua are returned to Gibraltar.
\ ederday the Council of Five Hundred laid an
embargo. No (hips wherein arv found EngJilh goodi
are to he fuffered to enter any of the French-ports.
On the 25th indant the Council of rectived
a riieffage from the Directory, whereupon it formed
itfelf into a secret commiitee. It is alTerted that
this mrflage relates to a peace with Portugal.
I lie celTation of arms with Modena was didurb
ed by dilguifed ac idents. In one of the Mo
denefe villages Seandiano, the inhabitants cut down
the tree of liberrv, armed t Hcmfelves, insulted and
knied lume republican minded persons, who would
go and visit a French commidary in Seandiano.
1 he noted Abbe Spsllanzani it is (aid played a mas
ter part in this uproar.
In fine general Buonaparte fays in a manifefto,
that he published, that the Duke's governmeut
has caused the French to be liated by the Modena
people, Instead of paying the contributions, the
Duke has given hit money to the enemy, and all
those are now declared as enemies to the French,
who (hall make an attack upon the property and
the rights of the inhabitants of Modena and Reg
gio.
On the 7th instant, our troops took possession of
Modena, difarroed the Duke's troops, and took all
the treasures into poffefiion, and replanted the tree
of liberty.
she inhabitants of Reggio who took an empe
perial detachment from the garrifoa of Mantua pri»
foners, General Buonaparte has rewarded.
■rf letter from Conflantinople, September 2y'b.
On the 12th instant the great admiral, or cap
tain Pacha, made his entrance in the channel. In
the middle of his fleet weren be seen the two Mal
tese cor fair fliips, which he had conquered. Their
flags were reversed, and their men laid in irons.
As soon as the captain Pacha came ashore, he was
received with the loudell acclamations of joy by
the people. He went to the Seraglio, where he
obtained audience of the grand fignior, and was re»
ceived in a flattering manner. The enemies of the
captain Pacha, did net like this, because they are
afraid that he will be made prime minider or grand
vizier. The fultari desired him to give an account
of the adion of both the Maltcfe corsairs, and dif
miifed him moll graciously.
Among the prisoners of the M?Jtefe are one
commander and two knights of the order of Malta.
The Spanish embaffador who is here hss fought to
•btain their liberty ; but in vain, they were brought
with the reft as the prisoners to the prison of the
Bath. \
The change of the political system of Sweden
as had the happy effV6t to produce tranquility i«
the state. - Warlike prtparauoas arr thought of u»
more.Tilt SweAifti'er, Mi. Mutadgea (« <
Hon has among otl.cr things declared, that whatever fuel
engagements his court may enter "into with other eve
powers, the harmony between tke Porte and Swc- terr
dca fliall be lupported as heretofore. bey
I Further tranjlmions to-morro<w.~] f or<
Philadelphia, eve
con
WEDNESDAY EVENING, JANUARY n, 1797. j
Fra
Philadelphia by
SELECT AND COMMON COUNCILS. of:
Resolved by the feleft and common councils, p ro
That the city commiflioners be and they ai e hereby cn j
directed to appoint twelve suitable persons, with,
the consent and approbation of the mayor, as at
fillante to the fupei intendant of tbe nightly watch, our
at such wage»or compenfatiou as may be reasonable
and proper, to continne until the firtt day of April
next; and the said commiflioners shall divide l the
perf»n» fe appointed into fix claflcs, and the city nun
into fix diftrifls, and aflign to each class the super mei
intendance of such diftrift as they may think pro anP
per. And it (hall be the paiticular duty of the f" 11 ]
iaid afliftants appointed by virtue of this resolution J"}'
to take care that the watchmen within the diftrifl P \ r
refpedively afligned to them are vigilant and atten
tive in the performance of their duties: and also to
apprehend and at reft all petfons whom hey (hall ver
have cause to fafpeA of any*unlawful defiua i and age
(hall take the persons fe apprehended as loon s con- ou f
veniently may be, before the mayor or some one of
the aldetmcn, to be dealt with according to law. q€
Resolved, That the resolution of the feleft and
common councils for-the appointment of twelve as- tra
fiftants to the fupei intendant of the nightly watch wil
be publilhed for the information of 'he citizens. Ed
WILLIAM H.TOD, Clk.S. C. d =<
EDWD. J.COALE.CIk. C. C. "
J ful
ur<
COMMUNICATIONS. an;
— eei
A writer in the New-York Argus, denies (and bis
publication is copied mto the Aurora) that men with- He
cut talents er principles bear away the palm of public Pr
honors, which had been afTerted in the Minerva of Mr. «fb
Webster. Where such men get the palm, let others
tell. Neither in Philadelphia, nor in the County, wiir
Mr. Webster look for or find infUnccs to illustrate his
a (lemon. Men of talent 6, principle, and unspotted
mercantile honor are eleflcd for the City and County, rr
as every one knows. The writer is also angry with ,
Mr. Webier for defaming our country and its public
men; What ajoke I Greenieaf and Baehe are (hocked te
at scurrility,—at opinions discrediting our nation ;at dc
slander on public men !! ! Ytt that very paper charges la
the gove-nment with fomenting the whisky rebellion n!
Is this no slander ! \bufe of the PennfylvauL afTem- Q |
■blyi, and of the President, is nothing—it is nothing for j t
the Aurora to insult the House of Rep' efentatives of
the United States when they went in ,procession with P'
the answer to the President's fpcech. This and muck rr
more ol the kind, in the Aurora, indeed goes for no- bi
thing. It makes a very sorry and mean figure every- ci
where, except possibly in the account of fccrct ferviee
money, where Tom Paine's salary for writing againll [,
the President may be charged with that to the Printer q
for calumniating him. 1
The governor of MafTachufetts, in his thanks
giving proclamation, fugsjells a solemn prayer to
God for the success of the nations viho are contending ®
for liberty. This sentiment was published in all the u
gazettes withoot a comment, and 1 could not but r
be struck with its appearance even in a Knoxville f
gazette (state of TeneFee). I
Foreigners, on reading this article, could n«t t
fail to understand that the people of Maflacliufetts 11
are ipraying heartily, with their governor, for the
pom pope, the Venetians, the king of Sardinia, and a
(or the dukepf Tufcany, whose independent fov {
ereignty w*s trampled upon, and his sea-port town, t
Leghorn, seized—his commandant anefted, and t
the whole injury aggravated by the insult of a letter
£om the general. The people of MafTachufetts, |
who have lately gained independence, will set a
proper value upon that of other countries, and (
therefore every Italian reader would fay, this is t
very kind to pray for us. Ihe Italian llates, he 1
would add. arc groaning under the yoke of a con- t
qaeror, and any attempt to defend themselves is ;
threatened with death, the cities to be burned and
the pe»ple killed. ,
But he would be astonished if he was told, the • ;
governor probably meant the French, and not their
enemies. They contending for liberty !he would
exclaim, that opinion is given up every where.
Does French liberty require that they should con
/ cjuer their neighbours, burn their towns, and ravage
and despoil the faireft regions of the earth. Ame.
« rica is the country of morals, of equitable and bene
volent sentiments towards all nations ; if your own
independence is dear to yon, Americans, you can
not wish other* may l#fe that jewel.
If it is answered that liberty within France is the
matter contended for, it may be retorted why d»
net the French enjoy it then Becoming con
querors is not the way to become free—it sets up a
military despotism. A nation of Writers is ana
lion of slaves.
French liberty and their cause of liberty aie
words of impoliii. il and deceit, which are now
exploded. Even here, whete multitudes yielded
willingly to their feelings, it is too late te revive
them even in party publications. But to intro
duce them solemnly into an address to the Al
mighty, is too much. What fort of liberty that
is we are to pray may be continued to the French,
their own governors have told us. Briffet repie-
V fentsit as thewildcrt, wickedest, and most dreadful !
dcfpotil'tn that ever scourged mankind. Gre,;oire
tells the convention," the greatett tneiny of Fiance
could not wifo the country to be going fatter to
deftrufiion than it seems to be by crimes, cruellies
and follies." The debates of the convention afford
" volumes of confirmation. ,
Now, if they chnfe to call this liberty—if this
he what they are contending for, it is really a pity
they fhauld have to contend for it, because I can
not fee why the poor Italians should objei. to the
French er joying the tranfeendent bappir.e.s of-. lien
liberty The liberty of putting all property into
.rquifitior, !o that no man was the owner of any
U,i, -hat a connmifJary or a committee man wrfh*)
to own, may Wt others. Americans do not like de
such a principle For prote&iujj property. Tro drag fa
every youngraan ratothewar in order to extend the
terrible Republic to the Rhine, or to set up sub ft ate s
beyond the is a very different tiling from q,
forcing the people to defend their «wn cowntry ins
against the duke of Brunfwick. This may be called th<
liberty by those who incline to be odd—it is how- tei
ever the liberty of a camp-»-fu< h as the slaves of to "
conquering *'efpots everywhere enjoy.
Judice is one of our'rights and privileges. In
France a man's head was secured on his shoulders '
by no legal protedion. Juries might stop the trial
of a person accused at any stage. Justice thers has
proved an affaflin, and walled rw®re than ten pesti
lences. ' tri ;
If, in a word, this is liberty, much good may it
do them. But do not let us presume to address t ".
.... r . mi
our prayers to the detty in terms that are repugnant - in ,
to truth, and to PLAIN TRUTH. to
— eil
Much has been fat !by our exclusive patriots against w<
speculation, but no reason has been afiigned why a an
number of gave a violent opposition to an di:
ment offered in the Honfe Reprefentitivcs, to the cu
anfwtr to that part of the address On that tri
fubjedl, the amendment proposed was in the words de
following—*viz. " It is sincerely to be lamented that a
spirit of fpecuhtion should be progressing with such ra
pidity in he commonwealth as to" threaten danger to he
the morals of the citizens, as well as the credit of tke ra
state, but \v« doubt not that if the officers of the go- fr :
vernment would by example as well as prerept difcour- bt
age the practice alluded to, the ill conferences so feri be
oufly to be appehended would be very much diminifli- la
ed" It is much to be wished that a question had been ca
'taken on the amendment as the egregious inconfiJlences ve
of our patriots would have been manifefted. —It has oi
been aifo said that a want of reipecfl to a chief magif- to
trate wfto declared the real, initead of the surreptitious la
will of :he people on a late ocrafion has been discover- in
ed in the House of Representatives of this state. That j tfc
declaration may be true, but if it is, the people ought \ th
to kpow it % and it is poflible that the House on a j ai
full investigation of that business may jufllfy the in
ure, but no /cafonable man, could wifti them to make ! w
any declaration on that fubjed before they are eonvin
eed of the propriety of it* 1T
As to\ the odium attempted to be thrown cn the Cl
House refpe<fl.ing the notice they have taken of the * T
President of the United' States it flies (like all limilar
cibfervations) as chaff before the wind. n
A SPECTATOR. g
— e
When good chrillian captains tun-away from 1
Spain and turn Mahomedaws—trample on the fa-
rred erofs, and become Renajadoes, at Algiers,
they sometimes return to their native country, as o
ter having plundered her fubje&s at Sea—yes, they f
do return sometimes voluntarily after a life of vile
lainy—fo strong are 'he natural affeftio s to one'r, x
native land. But then these gentleme'i lead a life (
of severe penance, discipline and mortification.— (
In Gil Bias is a «hara£ter ( Don Raphael) that ,
proves an exception : he returned, became a land- i
robber, and wfed to delight his rogue audience with 1
bravados and the tales of all his plundering. Poeti !
cal jtiliice however is done him at lad—he filches
the onto of a monastery* and it binned at the flak**. ■
[t is lucky for some folks that there is no lnquiiiti
on in this country.
For the Gaa£he of the United Slates.
> NO subject which has been agitated finee the
r eftablifliment of the National vovernment, has
been of a more delicate nature, than that now
" under difcuilion in the House of Representatives,
1 relative to the payment of the balances due
: from certain of the States to the United Stares.
It has occalioned some warmth, but the refolu
t tlon for calling on the Debtor States for pay
s ment, has passed by a large majority.
The Representatives from the State of New
, York, the largelt Debtor, urge that the mode
and principles of settlement, adopted by the
Commiflioners, v\ ere improper, and that, ifjuf
» tice was done, no balance would be found against
d that State. #
r The advocates of the resolution cont-end that
. the accounts have been fairly adjurted—that a
' long time and full jhvelligation preclude the
a luppofition of an improper fettietnent —that no
, objections have been made to the settlement—
's but that the balances due to ohe creditor States
e have been funded, in pursuance of that adjutl
ment —and that it is unreasonable to call on the
i 8 States for taxes, while the debts of certain
i States remain unpaid
It may be proper to observe, that antifederal
ijrn originated in New-York and Rhode-Island,
ie on the subject of an import of si ve per cent, on
i«" by the old Congress, and ac
id ceded to by all the other States. New-York
e and Rhode-liland, being importing States, were
unwilling to relinquish the advantage of draw
ing a revenue each to the State from imports.
Their opposition came near to involving the
e * country in a civil war. J
c- The fame principle was the main-spring of
rn antifederalifm in New-York, in the year 1788,
b- when the propriety of adopting the present coii
ftitution was under difcuftion. It was made,
l tho' secretly, a main objection to the State's .c
---ceding to that Constitution, That it would be
a relinquifhment of the superior fdvantages of
n " the State, which resulted from her favorable
» a poiition for trade " Luring the melancholy in
ia terval between the peace of 1 --M& and the New
Constitution in 1788, that State indeed paid irer
requilitions in specie, which few States did,
1 (and doubtless these are all carried to her
>w but at the fame time, the State laid an import
ed of 5 per cent, on imported goods ; oile halt' or
ive two thirds ofWhich were consumed in other
ro States. She thus drew a large portion of her
\l. revenue from her sister States—the fnrplus of
... which was employed in purchasing up the army
. Certificates at a very low value, and the pro
* seeds of these now constitute the wealth of the
ire " Treasury of the State. The iinW-nfe confifca-
Iful tiwns of laud aided this projefl. What propor
lire tion of the (locks of that State was purchased
nee by the proceeds of confifcations, and what, by
to the proceeds of the Import, is not known. Suf
tice It to fay, that little or no part of it v. ai ac
quired bv the indujlry of the people, as ftuted
jrd by Mr. Williams in Congress. The present
wealth of the Treasury, was delved mostly
this from two source—Coiififitztiom (vid State lm~
iiiy p«Jt- The jSrlt .were the fruits cf ihe.vtar— the
a „. second, the fruits of Antifederalijm Peace be
1 to the jhades of tiie adwiitijtration under which
that State derived such immmft wealth, from
helr t(ie weakness of the Confederation. i hat admi
nt" qiitration has beea,oulted asd its policy con
a"\ deinned—Us hojiility to the Union is not forgot'
"hfcd ten try the neighboring States. 'I he fubjedt is
delicatj, and it is for the citizens of that State
ft to manage this qneftion, as not to awaken the wet
smothered fire. Thepropofitions for seizing the »
Stocks ot the State, and for prohibiting tranf- g a |
fers were violent and'are generally reprobated. ,
On the other hand, a strong sense of justice in Fn
making the demand on the State, is so viftble in 1 7J
the other States, that great moderation and
temper will be iifefttl on the part of New-York, day
towards the preservation of federal harmony. vov
___ -TULLY. J,
The following Intelligence is extratted from Papers
received by the fckooner Fame, Capt. Webb, arri» ■■
ved here yeflerdav, in 18 days from St. Kit ft. $
BASSETERRE, December 2. flit
By a letter from Martinique we learn, that his tho
majesty's fliip Regulus of 44 guns, has arrived at war
Barbadoes ; llie was Cent out with dispatches for Job
the Commander in chief on this and the St. Do- at 6
mingo station : on her paflage out she was fired
into, in the nighttime, by a SpanHh frigate, who TZ
took her to be a transport; the Regulus answer
ed with two broadlides, by Which 14 Spaniards
were killed. The Don then (truck his colours, 1
and confefled that war had been declared at Ca- fix
diz two days before he failed. The Regulus has this
cundijcted her prize fafe into Barbatloes. The or t
truth of the above intelligence may be depen- the
ded on. *
December 6.
On the 33d ultimo, a dlfpatch boat arrived
here from Align ilia, giving an account of an at- S
tack having been'made on that Itland by a French law
frigate and a brig, ori board which were a num
ber of troop;. At the time of the arrival of the Pre
boat, none of*his Majesty's ihips were at the If- Do
land: on the 25th his Majesty's frigate Lapwing En]
captain Barton, arrived and failed the fame e- Sm
veiling for Anguilla, taking on boar J the maftef Do
of the boat as a Pilot ——The w'.nth being far Tv
to the northward, (he did not reach Angulla 'till A j
late at night on the 26th —Signal having been Ali
i made at St. Martin's of the Lapwings approach. 1
| the troops were all embarked, after having burnt
j the town, murdered numbers of the inhabitants, cal
< and loaded their veifels with the plunder At 1 are
j in the morning of the 'i', th : the Lapwing ran
j within piitol Ihot of the frigate and brig, which 0 f
were endeavouring to make their escape at the
mouth of the harbour, when ana£bion commen
ced which continued one hour and twenty-five
minutes. Favoured bythe darknefsof the night By
the French frigate made her escape through a
narrow channel, between a small I{land and An •
guilla;—the Lapwing having had her pilot kill
ed on the fir ft broadlide would not venture
through. At day break both veflels were seen pai
at anchor near St Martin's —on the Lapwing's th<
approach, the brig attempting to warp to the sri- dr
gate which had her rigging much cutt, was fired thi
on so heavily by the Lapwing that flie was de- nil
ftroyed andmoitjoftfcefailors and folciiers drown- tr
ed : the . rigate, after one broadside from the Lap- l£M
wing Itouck her colons, and proved to be the Deci- in:
ousof 26 guns. The brig mounted three 24 poun- « v
ders. There were 128 loldiers killed and woun- ra
ded on board the Decius ; 189 made prisoners. »' r
She was so much damaged in the a&ion, having " r
nine fliot holes through the bottom, that after *'
keeping pofleifon of her for two days, captain . 1
Barton finding it impollible to act her into port
. fVom her leaky condition ; and two French fr: "
gates of 44 guns each, being in chafe, of him about
eight miles to leeward, after taking out all the
prisoners, the Decious was blown up, and all the
plunder configilcd ta tjie deep. The Lapwingar- ~
rived 111 this K'oad the night after, having nooth- f
er man killed in t&? ;tclibn but the pilot.
It i.> to be regretted that the Lapwing did not Q
arrive at Anguilla 111 time to fruftrate the deligns tl
of the French, and prevent the depredatsons p
committed ; but we believe there never was a n
cafe where an expedition was so completely de- l
ftroyed. and the hopes of an hoftiie pillager so en- u
tirely blasted, as iu this. The gallantry and good n
conduct of captain Barton, and his brave crew
arc so manifeft, that tire bare narrative of tacls r
do them so much honour as to render unn'ecefla- b
ry any encomiums. x
The Socitty for alleviating the miseries cf pub c
lie elcsed on the 9th inft. the following c
perfofis, their officers for the present year.
Preficlcut. 1
Dr, William White. ,
Vice* President:. £
Dr. Samuel Magaw, t
Dr. William Roasts.
Trenfurer.
Benjamin W. M«rns.
Secretaries. I
Caleb Lowncs, i
L>f. Saml. P. Gnffitts.
A Sing Cvmmittec. I
Charleg MarfhaU, Jofcph Buld,
Chnftopher Marshall, Ebenezer Large,
Thomat Harrifon, Bcnj. Thaw,
Thomas Morris, Win, Mc. lihenny,
Isaac Parrifh, Wm. Garriguea.
A, ''
On Monday last the Following officer were elect
I ed for the Philadelphia Lancaster turnpike read.
i Prefidenr.
Eilifton Pent.
- Managers
Edward Hand,
Abraham IVitmcr,
Richard Downing, juit,
r Richard Thamxs,
, U'iHinm San/em;
| Thomas M. IVil/ihg,
II Jama i . Fi/btr,
r r JofittL Hevves,
r Jacob Downing,
if Godfrey Huga,
y David IsCivis,
>- John Cur win.
e Treasurer.
Tench Francis.
"j Secretary<
,y U'illium Gtyvclt
f- "i- ' '
c " BOS TON, January 4.
" d Capt. Pease, in the Alliance, whalefhip, arrived
'ly at Nantucket, brought In 1,1 Do barrel*.—Parted]
n . company «(iih the ship Janus, Capt. Folgier, of,
tie Ncw-Bedtord, in lat. *, 8, long. 28, W. I,2CC
be barrels.
ch The Betsey, Bofworth, of Providence, for the
'! u Welt-Indies, imhe last snow tloi m, was feilged on
' Conanicut— veflel loft, cargo damaged.
o t. At Thomas' 48 day»/nicc—Schooner Cyn
is thi>, Flibt, of S*lein.
A numberof Boston and otW eastern veffch
were at Demarara O&ober 2s.
The Four SilUrs, Williams, in 17 days from
Salem, and Younp Eagle, Burr, in iB day* from
Hence, arrived at New-London for hJew York, the
17th ult.
The New-London paper of the 28th fays, Sun
day 25th failed, the Weft-India fleet, under con
voy of the (hip ift dependence, with 74 oxen and
mules, commodore Goodrich, commander, confid
ing of a brij* and three schooners.
gT A quarterly meeting,of t( the society for thein
ftitution and fwpport of First day or Sunday schools in
tho City of Philadelphia, and the diflr'nßs of South
wark and the Northern Liberties,*' will be held at
John Ely*s school room in Third near Mulberry ftrect>
at 6 o*clock this evening.
GEORGE WILLI\MS, Secretary.
Office of the Injurance Company of North America*
January gth, 1 797.
The Dividend declared by the Diretflers, for the last
fix months, is two d©lhrfor each share of stock in
this company, which will be paid to the Stockholders
or their attornies duly Miithonied, at any time after
1 the lofh inft. By order f the B*ird,
I tawt 19th EBENEZF.v . ZAKD, Sec'ry.
A Printing-Office for Sale ;
Situate in the city of Burlington, on the river De
laware, about 20 miles from Philadelphia,
Confining of
French Cannon, Roman and Italic
Double Pica, ditto ditto
English, ditto ditto
Small Pica, ditto ditto
Do. on Piea body, ditto ditto
Two-line Letters —Flowers
A good Manogany Prefs—lmpofing Stone
Also, Chatcs, Galiies, tompo&ng-fticks, Racks,
Furniture. &c. complete.
The fiurftion is eligible sos business, and the officc
calculated to execute any kind of work. The terms
are reafanable- Apply to H. Kammercr, jr. Crown
ftreet, near Race-ttreet, at No. 43, Racc-ftreet, or
of Mr. John Neale, hurlingtoa.
January 10
For Sale
Bv private ctntra3, a very valuallc Ejlale, inoiun by
ihe name $f
C H a T H A. M,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank of Rap
£aiianock river, opposite the town of Fredenckfburg, in
the state of Virginia, coaGlling of eleven or fifteen hun
dred acres, as may heft fttit trie putchafer. There is on
I this estate, a large and well built brick house, containing
nine commodious rooms, exclufitc of a spacious hall or en
try, 11 two pair of flairs, fnitable andconven
.• u -nt pafiagc., and excellent dry cellars. It i< placed on a
fine hs-lthy eminence, commanding beautiful views is
evefy dircelicti over the towns ot Frederickfburgh and
Falmouth, and an extenGve e«ltiva«ed country.— The
grounds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleas
, l ure En d kitchen gardens interspersed with a variety of
fgarce trees, a choice of flowefs aHd flowering
Ihrubs, and enriched by various forts of the fc%>wmg
1 fruits, viz ripples, pears, walnuts, chefnuts, cherries, peach.
£ j«, plumbs, ueftatines, apricots, grapes, figs, rafberrfes,
u;oofeberrii:t,ttraivbernei, and currants; the whole adr.: i-
I rafely varied by turfed flancs w!*ch have been formed by
e .great labour and expe lit. Bordering up.n Ehefe im
e piovemetts.atcfeveral lots, m a highltate of cultivation,
" , and well set with red clover and grass, from
" 1' which three Heavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jaccnt'thereto are two large and flourifliirtg orchards; on«
II of well chosen pea.htrets, th« other of apple and pear.
Is trees, felefledfrom the be aurfories in the Kate. Pre
-15 pcrly detached from the mansion hqufe are eitenfivc
a roomy offices nf every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
Larder, heufe-keeper's room and Laundry, wi h a cellar
1- underneath for a variety of purp.fes, a ttora-houfe a»d
d i moke house all of brick, a dairy and ipring house of l'tone.
.v ntablw for thirty liou-cs, an cuath houses for fouT car
ts tiages. Also a large and well planned farm yard, v ith
i- barn and granary, a cow house, wish separate stalls for
thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veais.
muttons and lambs; extenlivefheds for sheep, and other
urangetnenu for stock of every defcriptioa, with a large
and convenient receptable for provender, from which they
can be furnilhed without being exposed to tiie mcl 'nency
B g of the weather. An overseer's house, blackfmitk's (hop,
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best man.
ner more than fifty labourers.
The arable lands are f» advantageously divided as to af
ford an opportunity of making a large quantity Indian
corn annually, without bringing the field into similar cul
ture oftner than once in f.rnr years; consequently the
lands may be improved by keeping up the inclofures during
the intermediate years, or may be ben.ficUUy fallowed sos
wheat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
On the premises there is also a merchant mill with one
pair of best French burr ftoues, and one pair of Cologne;
furnilhed with modern machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired term ol four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
£ ram for the use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly iool. more. Hit mill and miller'shoufe are built of
free ftene, within a very fiHall distance of navigation,near
to which a;e two or more valuable lilhcries, and a well
accuftomcd ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
Frederickfburg. The laid contains inexhaustible quarries
of free stone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water and poffefTes a due proportion ot
n meadow, which by having the command ol water mas
be .onfidcrably increased. The roads are good, and the
,ad * neighbourhood genteel and sociable. In si&, eiclufive of
an improveable and well conditioned farm, the value and
emolument inseparably connected witn a mill, ferries,
fifheries and quarries eligibly fltuated ; the profits ariang
from an ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly ftockcd with vegetable,
of all forts as to be fully equal to the demand in market,
, there might be derailed many other advantage, apper
taining to the fertility of these lands, which th. lubfcnber
conceives it unnecelTary to mention, being lully convinced
that when examined, it will be found 10 be a complete,
pleasant aod healthy refideoce, pofieffing beauties and
eonvenlence./uffiaent to attrafi the attention of any^er
fon defircus of becoming a purclialer.
The motive which induces the fubferiber to ofter tor
falean estate so singularly beautiful and advantageous, i»
a desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more ease attend to hi. interests in the neigh'
bourhood Of that city . <■
The rilrchafer may be accommodated with a few flavcs
in families, either for plantation or doraeftic ule. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balaoco
made easy. the debt being nrZHUOH.
— Chatham, (Virg.) Pec. 19, '7?6- nth—lawim.
• ved WM. HATDONy
irtcd Drawing-Master, from London,
- of v.'here he htb Buried several years under one ot
' tilt 110 ft eminent mailers in that science, attends
' young Ladies and Gentlewen at their e home..
Hi* terras axe 6 dollars per month for attendance three
r the timet per week. Likewise all kind, of •mamental
■d en Painting, Flower., Fruit, &c. uught on the above
terms. A line directed to W. H. left with the Editor
Cyn- ol this Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
January. 9. 1SWAN N'S
RiMng School, Horfc Academy & Infirmary,
adjoining the Public Square, Market Street. <
'f. SWANN )
RETURNS his fin cere thanki to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his refideuce in this |City, and
flaifershimfeH that the fuecefs of his efforts, in the numerous,
übftinate and dangerous difeafet in Harfes, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and recommend attaa.
He now begs to inform them and the public at large
that his fpcious and commodious pre miles, creited for the
purpo'es above described are open for the reception of pupils
of eitrcr sex, who wifhto beinftm6tcd in the Art of Hiding
and-the right method of governing their horles, so as to ride
'tbczn with ease, elegance, and lafety—their horses will be
caiefully and expeditiouliy broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are shut up in them, will unfolded by art, calling
ioith uniformity of motion, and to that noble animal
all those beauties of a&iou which providence has so bounti
fully bestowed on them.
Also, at His hospital, every diforHer which the harfe is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience. «
The utility of the above wftitution has never been qncftion
cd,that it has long been wanted in this gentleman's
llud wtllmanifeft, and T. Sw ann as the ftift ellablifher N of
the vetereuary act, folicitt and relies upon the fuppoitoftha;
public (which he is ever anxious in fetving) to enable him to
bring it to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for irhat
purpose has beeu hinted by fevetal gentleman, who wish to
promote the inhibition—the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by services in any of the departments he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges ftatfd in his hand bill. Such
fbbfeription is now open, and the If/astutea of many;refpe£l
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor cf Known, that he dial I in a few days tak*
the liberty of waiting upon them and folicvting their support
aod protc&ioo.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies a*id
CenU«mCnwho wish to be inftru&ed.
Nov. 5. tth&f.
In Council, 22d December 1796.
' The Executive of Virginia will, on or before the firlt
day 0/ March next, be ready to receive proposals for the
importation from Europe, of
Four thousand stand of Arms.
To be delivered at Richmond, in the courf; of the ensuing
year—Each stand to confilt of a muiket, the length of
the barrel to be three feet eight inches, and to receive a
bail of the size of eighteen to the pound—a double bridled
lock upon the best conftruclion—neat brafsmounting—
£esl ramrod, and to be well (locked with black walnut;
and a bayonet one foot five inches in the blade—a car
touch box, suitable to the mnlktt, to contain twenty-four
cartridges, with neat black leather belts, me-unted with
braf3 buckles ; together with a bru h wiper for the pan,
and picker for the touch-hole. The Executive will also
he ready to receive proposals, within the period above
mentioned, for the manufacturing within this state, the
like nnmber of (laad of arms, to he delivered at Rich ;
mond, in the course of the year 1798.
By order of the Executive,
Attcft,
A. Blair, C. C.
Jan. 6. *eo3t.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the ease and convenience of merchants
in general j but particularly for those who are ex
tensively concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the couife of the whole year,
for each month feparatively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
the mode now in use, of felefting the bills due in
•ach month from t(ie promiscuous entries of several
months.
To which is prefixed,
t able flievring the numbor of days from any day
any rc.nth, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January 2. tawtf
Paterlon Lottery.
FOR railing fix thousand fix' Hundred and fiiry-fevcn
dollars and fifty cent*, by a dedudtion of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prixs. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is doflars jooo
I 1000 1000
i 300 seo
J 100 ioco
20 100 2000
99 S° 4950
100 1.3 5000
*000 10 10,000
J Lad drawn numbers .f foeo dollars each, 5000
*331 Prizes. 44.4J0
4018 Blanks.
6jjo Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,4.50
By order of the Directors of the Society for establish
ing Ufeful Mariufaitures, the fuperintwndaiits of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requeued the Managers to offer the
foregoing Solieine to the public, and have direAed ther.i
to re.'ond the money to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
a this Lottery.
The lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, and will
cor.f.uu- until flniflied. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be ,"Ham at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second ftrset, who will give information where tick
ets may L»c procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1^96.
J. N- GUMMING, ' -)
JACOB R. HAUDKNBERG, >■ Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
I Prize of 5000 - - - 50C o
I 1000 - - IOC3
S 500 500
St 1000
30 ico - - - aooo
90 50 4500
165 »J - 4125
The five lafl drawn tickets, ioeo e»ch, 50c©
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propar- !
Iron of the 10 dollars.
the Lottery is conOrferahly more than o«e taiircl 1
drawn, the value of tlte undrawn tickets is great
iy inrreafed, and it ra worth the notice of those
who bold tickets in the old scheme, that they can ex
change tJitir tickets for ihole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance confidently t],e
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
i'ht tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftentr, and the Lottery soon finiflt;;!.
November u. mws
Bank of North-America,
January 2, 1797.
At a meeting of the Directors this day, a Dividend ol
Six per Cent. wa» declared for the laft,half which
will be paid to the Stockholders or their reprefenu-.tives,
at any tin\e after the lock inliant.
By order of the Board.
dti6th JOHN NIXON, President.
Clocks and Watches.
L liS LIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a laFge afiortment of WARRANTED
iVA'i'CHES, e«nfiftii»g of horizon**!, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecoads, of fttperior
.\rorkmanlhip and elegance ; also capipM and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; c.*->p'd & jeu'dlM. cnpp'd,
seconds, day of the mouth, aiid plain Silver Watches ;
tight cfay Sc. chamber Clocks ; elegant French Clock* '
with rnartfle frames ; eight day and thirty hoir, brai's
>rorks, &c.
Decembet 12, 1796. dim
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very large and heavy debts are j'iftly
due and owing from mefirs. Blair M'Clenacban and
Patrick Meore, of the city of Philadelphia, merchant*,
trading under the firm of Blair M'tiknaclMin and P.
'Moore, and from Blair ia his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint ai well as separate of the said Gen>le
men, is, and ought to be, liable. Aiid whereas
it is clearly and fatisfa&orily afcertaincd, that mr.
Blair M*Clenachan, of the said firm, has conveyed
away to mr. Jobn 11. iluflan, his fon-in law, to his
daughter, miss M'Chrtaeban, and to his son, George
M'Clrnaeban, several large and valuable real cftates,
well as considerable personal property, in the city
and county of Philadeiphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
dfewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their jult debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whgmfu
ever, against the purchase from the said grantees, or
either «* thend, of any portion of the ftid real or per
sonal property, as the most vigorous meafurea will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the jo-fc demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas F'WxJimons, "J
Philip Nickliri) I
Ifaae Vbarton y Committee.
William M'Murtrie, 1
Samuel IV. Fijhtr, -J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. aoth.J
TQ THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the pubh'c prints,
warning all pcrfonr. agaioft purchasing from the
grantees of Blair M*Clenachan, any portion of the
real and pet fonal estates he conveyed away to
hi# fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upen the fubjeft by a general and
numerous of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Cletiachan aiftl P. Moore as of Blj»ir M'Clcna
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers by
those creditors : a step which it would have bc< n a
i bieach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
.' The very statement of, the therefore mult dif
: pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
, or It originated in a detire to fccure
( th« property of the debtor as a sand for the pay
. ment of his just debts. It was fan&ioned by the
advice of council as a measure necejary to the fafety
, of the creditors. If the advertisement has been
[ injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owe 9 that injury
to his own unju 11 iliable condu&, not to the fub
feribers who have merely publilhed the truth in
• terms as mild as the fact would admit, and who
, mean to investigate in a high court oCjuftice the
. validity of thole purchases of which Mr. M*Cle
nachan so coelidently speaks.
The fubferibers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution against purehafing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it t© a
t pnrchafe from any other persons (if such there be)
to whom Mr. M'Clenachau may have made similar
conveyances. v
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philad. Dee. 21, f796.
Those printers who have been requested to
: puhlilh the firll Caution, are delir«d to pubwh this
also.
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifaci
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
! two hundred, and fifty dollar«, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, fro-.i th Fo
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Vie 'i Prize of 10,000 dollars, 2c,c00
I ditto 10,000 lOjOOO
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each j 5,000 3Sfioo
6 ditto r,ooo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 »,OGO
55 ditto 50 2,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,25©
5850 Prizes, , 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a pr»z«.
1750° Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
$5" The Commillioners hav« taken the Securities re
quired by the aforclaid a A for the pun<ftual payment oi
the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
j notice will be given.
j Such priae# -as are not demanded in fix months after th*
1 drawing is finilhed, fba.ll be considered as relinquished for
the benefit «f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CAIUtOLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Walhington, Feb. 11. 5
Horkvi taken i'ft,
For the Winter Season,
And fej.! cti clover bay at the Subscribers pUce, it
rajles on the'Briitol Road, where good (tabling is pro
vided, and great care will b« liken of thcin
William Bell.
Nov. 23. mwfiwmthtf.
uancing'schoolT
WILLI AM M'DOUGALL will open hi* school on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten. o'clock in the morning, at his
jQlegaht Iseiv Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours cf fruition for young ladies, from 10 to i o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock 011 evenings o
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to
introduce a variety Reels. .
Note. The fk'ft pra&ifiisg bail to be on Tuesday e
venhtg, the firft of November, and to be continued every.
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, No. 134» Markct
ftVect.
OA. 17. tthf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manutaaory, fltUKc
in a convenient part ol the city ; the vorks iintofk new,
on an entirely original conftrufifcion, and built of the bed
materials, and may be fct to work immediately. Pcrfoni
whowilhto purchafc, arc requcfocd to auply at No 273.
-South Second Street, hcptcmbpr 13. t t f tt
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 23d O&obar,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a miccsd green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and drefl. He has been aceuftomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 §jmiawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete afiortment of every thing necefiary
to be used for^he
Preservation of the Mouth anS Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human 8c Tvorv Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; » excellent Elixir for
lweetcning the mouth and preserving the teeth —he
alio furnifhes Bruihes and loft Sponges.
* # * H« lives in Chefnut-ftrcet, No. 135, above
Fourth-ilreet. 1
November 26.
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Phihdeijhia-.
The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with all the
daily papers published mi Philadelphia, Nsw-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with ihofe of the principal eom
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly tiled
and none permitted to be taken arway on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Frcnch Liquors; together with the usual refrefkmetus,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moll
approved Malt Liquors frQmLondon and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Scafon.
Large and fraall Parties, o® (ingle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breafcfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenieat to thcmfelves—a cold Collation fc>
regularly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to b\c had
at fha bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifced, and
the utmofl attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requiCte.
Samuel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute*the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfekf that nothing on his part ibaltbe wanting fro pre
fer vc that patronage with which he hat been so diftinguifh
j ingly Honored.
I Philadelphia. April 19. mwf
Treaiury Department,
September 28, 17^6.
NOTICE is hereby given, thit will be ro
ceived at the, office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next e«-
luing, for tkcfupply of all rations which may he required
for the use of ihe United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places aifd within the diftri&s here
after mentioned, vie. At Ofwego ;at Niagara ;at
Pjcfque lfle; at Sandufky Lake, and 011 Sandulky
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Ham ikon ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at OrenVilte; at
Pieque Town and Loraniies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any pfcice h«Iow Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Kric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Mail'sc ; at any plate from Port Maft'ac
t<p the south boundary of the United .States on the river .
Miftifippi ; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiataaoii.
If supplies fbali be required ior any poils or places not i
mentioned in this notice, all such lupplies iibail be fur
nifued at prices proportioned to thbfe to be paid at the
ports before recited, or as may be herwa.'rer agreed on
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be fupplicd arc to ccniift of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or 2our.
Occ pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiikey.
One quart and half a pint of £ait.">
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , , .
Two pouoJs of Soap, { P" hunJred m,ons
One pound of Candles, J N
The rations are to be furnilhed in fmch quantities, as that
rherc shall at all times during the said term, be fuffiettnt
[ fjrthe coufumption of the troops at Michiliniackinac, Dc
| troit, Niagara, andOfvvcgo, fer the term of fix month, in
! advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
I at least three months in advance, in good and wnolefome
! provificni, if the fame fcall be required. 11 i$ to be un
dcrftood, that the Contra«3;or is to beat the expenco and
rilk of ifluirgthe fuppli«s to the troops at each post, and
that all lofles fuflained by the depradations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, fhoil be paid
for at the pricc of the articles captured or deflroyed, on
the depositions of two wore pcrfons of creditable cha
racters, and the ecrtifccate of a commifTioncd ofiiccr,
ccrtairing the circumPances of the loss, and the amount
I of the at titles for which eoir.penfation fball be claimed
©LIVER WOLC'JTT,
Secretary of fiic Treasury.
Notice to Creditors.,.
TlirAffiftiue# of Bernard Dougherty laic of Ceti
ford County, will make a dividend of the effe&s in
rheir hands, immediately after the firft day of Februa
ry r.ext to such Creditor? as may furnifti their accounts
before that time.
Thomas Smith
Thomas Fitzfimons f ljr
Ifoa'e Hazlehurft f Assign«..
Miers Fiftier J
Philadelphia, Jah. 9, 1796. dfw
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for priies, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut
*reet, where a corre# Numerical Bock is kept for public
ittfpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or cx*
changed for prizes di awn in the Washington Lottery, oC
wh : cn the 50th and 51ft days returns arc received
: £r The Business of a Broker carried on a* ufuat.
%• A Mi ARE in the NEW THEATRE to He fold
on reasonable terms. December 29. ttst!
In order to comply with coutratts, I tuill felly for
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Fredericklburg, beginning op
polite to the Idwer corner of Doc'lor Wellford's, on
Caroline-street, and running up to the- cross fireet
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence hack to
Sophia-street. This fquarel have laid off into 34 lot*,
27 and an half feet front, and 122 back, 12 on Caro
line-ftrect, and 12 on Sopbia-fireet. Nine of those
on Caro'ine-ftreet I have leafed on an animal ground
rent of 8 and 10 poundsj to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purchaser could enhance the value
of by building frrul! honfes, which will as readily
procure tenants as pot* or goards will Martins iu the
Ipring, and yield a greater profit in proportion to
their cost than large buildings. Thof* who incline
to purchafc may know the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZHUCH.
Peli-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. nth] d*w
Any Pi. rson
Who is well acquainted with the River
MISS IS I? PI,
And will give Dire<Slio:is for filling «»o the fame,
tint can be depended on, fhill he genGroullv reward
ed for his information, provided he will'leave the
directions with Mr. John Fcnno, printer, Philadelphia,
or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport.
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth-flreety
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to hfc
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to foiicit a continuance of their favors.
He has an hand an extcnfive alTortment of the
Moj'i Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable for the season.
At this ihop Gentlemen can be fnrnifhed with the feed,
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and mod
Fa'ihionable manner, and on the Ihortoft notice. H.' \v lt J
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and'
punctual attention to them.
November 10. ws
City cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, \o.IL
fOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 / THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & )
dwelling-houfo, ) cash 30,000, are J.« 0.0000.000
I ditto 15,000 & cafis 35,00 a 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 10,009
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
X ditto 5,c00 & eafh 5,0c0 10,000
I cacti prize of 10,000
s do. 5,000 each, are . io.jioo
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 * . in,ooo .
00 do. 100 - . 10,006
3t)o do. 50 - . 10,000
400 do. 3j - 10,000
1,000 do. 3© . so,lo®
*s)°o© do* 10 » *5« } ooo
*6,739 Prises.
31,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour thofc who may take a quantity of
Ticket?,the prije of 40,000 dollars will he the L, st drawft
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, ftcuring payment in either money
or prises, in ten days alter drawing, will be received hi
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere died in the City of Ws/hir.gton--
Two beautiful defigtn; arc already felciled for the entire
fronts on two of the public fqeares ; from these prawino-s.
it isnropofed toerefl two centre and four corner bvildinjrs,
as loon as pollible after this lattery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurirs, in
the manner dcfcribed in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedu&ion of five per Cent, will be made to defray
> the necessary raptnfes of printing, &c_«nd the fsrplus
will be Spade a part of the fund intended for the Natisnal
Cuiyariuy, to be creeled within the city of Wafhin-gton.
1 he Drawing will commence as Toon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be.payable in thirty days.
aliLi it IS finilhed; and any pr.ica lor which fortunate
! ambers aie nut produced within twelve months afu-r the
drawing is doled, are to be considered as given towards
the It'-:J. tor the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the eiding of the draw
>ug, and to take up the bonds given as fecuri^y.
i he real focuritiesgiven for the payment of the Piizeß
are held !;y the Prcfident jud two Diredors of the Hank"
of Columbia, and are valued at-more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commilfionera affiflcd in the manasrcm. n* of the
■potel Lottery are requeftedto undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a iufficimt nurn
her ol these having kindlyaccepted.it is hoped that the"
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jeifts may continue to favor the de/ign. •
By accounts recoived from the different parte of the
Continent as well as trom Europe, where the tickets
have been f«nt for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily commerce, and that the care and
caation unavoidably necclfary to insure a fafc difiofal Q f
ths tickets, has rendered the 10,.r: furpenfior. indifpenlabl..
SAMURL HLODCST.
.§, Tickets may be had at the »-.nk of Colombia • of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, I'ofton •
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells'"
Cooper's Ferry. eo
PKI.NTtD BY " JoThVT EN No.'
—No. 119 —
CH ESHUr-STK t £T.
[Pricc light Pollarf per Annum.)