of t y st and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
Number 1619 j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
£ Forenoon— Edward Fox, No. ;6,
Uonaay} . / outh Front-flrest,
J \ Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6$
V. South Front-street.
r Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
X*cfJ.at< , Auaion, No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
•'I Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C. 183 High-ftjeet.
mdjitfday \ Afternoon—Peter Senfon, No. 74
\ south Third-ftrcet.
Thurtfay \ Forenoon—Edward Fox.
( Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday I Forenoon—WilluVn Shaniion.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Aftsrnooa—Peter Henl'on.
Sales of Lumber, &c.
WILL BE SOLD,
On WEDNESDAY, the aid injl. frtc fcly .t
in He morning,
At C. F.mlen's Lumber I~ard,
In fri.e Northern Liberties, near the Hay Stiles,
AH the Personal Property there
remainingbelongingtothe eOate of CalebEmlen,
oeceafed, confining of the following valuaWe
articles, v:2.
Several hundred of WhitdlPine, Hemlock
and Oak Logs, to be fold in lots of about three
thousand ft«t each-
I 1-2, a, a 1-2, and 3 inch Oak Planks aff.irt
jj ed, most of which are of thebeftftuff for
« the us; and building of (hips
„ I. and 2 i-a inch White Piac Planks for
g quarter t>!cks
-g 1 '" a to 4 inch A(h Planks
> Hemlock Scantling assorted '
g Six pieces Hemlock jo feet in leng.h, and a
c | pieces 27 feet
'"hite Pine Scantling, Maple Scantling
Maple Boards, Quarter Rails
=_ Sjiinning Weel ituff, Whale Pieces 40 feet
V lc • 1
~ti A v.-.loable assortment of White Oak Flitch
f-> Stuff
i_ And several feparat: parcelsofold Plank, &c.
ALSO, j
Two large copper Stills, with
Worms, Heads, &c.
A good sorrel Horse—an old Chaise and Sulkey
A Ijtrge Spinning Wheel and Reel
A number of still haute farrs, two log Trucks, a
catt;nj Box and Knife, a large Feed Box, a
fnadil Anchor, a Scale with Beam, and a number
of 561b. Weights, a good Mill Saw, a writing J
Deft: with sundry articles in 'Coxr.pting-houfe,
two pair ©f good Piitols, a parcel of old Iron,
Cables, Ropes, &c. LUrwi/t, *
The wheel works of a Horse {?
Saw Mil], complete and in good order. tl
Such persons as may be delirous of purchasing
an y part thereof, are at liberty to view them on
tile premises, >vhere a man mill constantly attend
every day previous to the sal.. Pir^nnam
—-*—«*■«»", ouHders, occ. may have a favora- i
ble c prportunity of purchasing Lumber, fee. to f
more advantage at this sale than ellewhere, which
bo doubt will command their attention. _
Purchafersto a larger amount than one hundred
dollars may be accommodated withfixty days cre
dit on approved indorsed notes.
Sold by Order of
JAMES VAUX, and S
CHARLES PLF.ASANTS, i
Attorneys in fa(l U Mart Emleh, sUe Executrix. ?
Footman Sis Co. Autfrs. F ,
noymbcr 13. eOJt d3t
United States, 1 „
Pennfyhania DiJlriEl,
I--I pursuance ol a writ to me direfled from the
honorable Richard Piters; Esq. Judge of the
% Liftricl Court of the United States in and for the
PennfylvaniaDillria, will he exposed to PUBLIC \
SALE, at the Cttflom-houfe, in th; city of Phi- ""
ladelphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at 12 o'clock , ,
at noon,
2 hampers of Earthen Ware
I box of Indigo
1 bax of Merchandise
I half barrel do. p
*0 bags of Coffee
x barrel of Salt Petre
t barrels} By
1 k e 6 f °f Linens
I trunk J
1 barrel sf Sugar
1 bag of Pepper, and
Part of 3 bags of Sugar
Tha fame having been libelled against, prosecuted
and condemned a< forfeited, in the said I'oort. >
WILLIAM NICHOLS, R*
Martial. vv
Marshal's Office, ?
2d November, 1797. { dtS in 1
United States,- 1
Peunfylvania Dijlria, j-" j
IN pursuance of a writ to me direfled from the ~ 0 _
honorable Rich ird Piters,Efq. Judge of the
Diftricft Court of the United States, in and for the
Pennsylvania Di(lri<a, will be exposed to PUBLIC J us
SALE, at the Custom house in the city of Phila
delphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at 12 o'clock,
at noon,
354 Silver Watches
30 gold Watches .
500 Watch Keys Kji
Th« fame haviHg been libelled against, prosecuted Rf
and condemned astforfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal. c „'
Marshal's Office, \
■ad November, 1797. j dtS
15 Dollars Reward.
RAN-AW i\Y from the Sublcriber, on the 29th
inft. an apprentice La 4, named JOSEPH i
BARNET, by trade a paper-maker ; about 19
years of age, five feet seven or eight inches high,
of a light complexion, tics his hair. Had on, and
took with him, a castor hat, half worn, one brown fj
mixture cloth coatee, new, one light do. half orde
worn, one llriped velvet waiflcoat, with blue p]y t
cloth hacks, one do. with fuftian kacks, and sun
dry other thin clothes. It is probable he will change
his clothes 18 he took a number with him.
.iny person apprehending said apprentice, and
securing h ; m so that I can g;t him again, fliall re
ceive the above reward, and rcafonable charges if 6a
brought home. 30
PETER BECHTEL. J
Lower Mcrion town {hip, 15
Montgoucry county. Ai
Cdolittr iP. N I.— law 3W. Sej
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY NOVEMBER .67.797
ijlkL Wanted to Charter,
To one port iu HKpaniola and back
A faft failing Vessel, of the bur
, then ot 6 or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to
Benjamin MaacAN,No. i?o; South Front street
, °r f ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Vvharves.
City "° V ' ml ' r I -
-cet. Philip Nicklin Co.
No - HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
•74 Havannah Sugars, whiteandbrown
15 hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chests
in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hoglheads
. I'eneriffe Wine in pipes
OU icd Fort Wine inhoglheads
Sail Canvass, aborted, No. 1 to 8
8 cafe s of Manchester Goods, confiding of Dimities,
H Muflinets,Ginghams,Thickfctts,Corduroys, &c.
100 crates Queens' Ware, allotted
Ltk Nails, assorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in caiks
:s, A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter calks Gun Powder
re Ihn kmc alfofor SALE or CHARTER,
(-X7-W The Ship
HAMBURG PACKET,
c j [ Burthen 320 tons, eoppered to
JWSt SsKS&r- the bends, and completely fitted.
Thejhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
r( _ good vtffel, and completely fitted.
f or The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar-.
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
" or she whole of the above velfels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. § nnv ic.
For bale or Charter,
1 f"yikl The Snow 1
W%i GOOD hope,
VVill carry about 1100 barrels, and
et is rea dy to take in a cargo. For terms
f3i#*i -Tat apply to
:h Pragers & Co.
c No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for fair;—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
\l November 7. dtf.
For Hamburgh,
The Ship \
I WILMINGTON, i
:r Captain Hilman ; c
g A Staunch, fsft failing, Phi- _
•, -rlf> ladelphia built vessel, of
1 live oak and cedar, is now in complete order, and
trill fail with all pofliblerpeed, having great part of
her cargo already engaged. For freight or P> f - ,
frge (having excellent accommodations) apply to
the captain on board, «r to
Summer I & Brown. 4
j Who hav( jJ
- Gohaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo- n
J lades, and a few thousand weight of excellent Cor
h dage, including several fables of 8£ Sc II inches. O
novrmher 3. tuth&stf
i H or London, £
THE SHIP C
WILLIAM VENN, p
James Jofiah, Matter,
; ■>,['witli all coaven
\\ j ent e xp e di»i on i.p or p
Freight or Paffsge, apply to tr.e Captain, er to n
j'ejffe & Robert Wain. a
oa. 31. £ r
For London, l
THE ship
; Daniel M'Phcrfon, Majier. A '
TO fail with all convenient speed—a conGdera-
blc part of her cargo being already engaged.
For terms of Freight or Passage, apply to
Roft 9 Sim/on.
Oa. a - j
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing, br
By Ihip Edward, from Madeira,' and Betsey and
Peggy, from Oporto, in Pipes and Hogtheads,
For fate by
PETER BLIGHT. tt
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SAL*, O
The Ship
AMITY, p
Four thousand barrels burthen, j
J jn excellent order—ready to take j
in a cargo—about three years old.
LJKKWHS, gel !
The Schopner Industry, j
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car- riet
go—and a quantity of his
Jamaica Rum and Sugars, ufc /
Jud landed from the above veflels at South street
wharf. eoim. Nov. 1. 'j
For Charter, qu ;
THE SHIP
John Bulkley,
Samuel Volans, Majier. ' I
• ''HIS vessel is built of live oak
X and cedar, of about 30CC
barrels burthen, and ready to receive dn board a wilr
cargo. this
Jejfe Robert Wain.
oa. 3 r.
For Freight or Charter, - -
Ci, 'ypfc. THE good Bum
S U K E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Mafler ; Q
NOW lying at Clifford's whart, and in compleat -
order to receive a cargo. For terms pi cafe to ap
ply the Captain an board, or
John Siyrin, -rr
No. Br, Arch-street. XT.
WHO HAS FOR SALE, reafo
2000 wt. of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings \
jo bulbels of Timothy Seed fl
150 cases of Claret, firft quality t
Aqd a quantity of Sherry Wine. e
Sept. ay. dtf Oi
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
J For Sale or Charter,
bur- ?. B I L,
rto 'W)y P'y»B at Morns' wharf, near
reet IXI 3 a ■ n the Draw ' ri<l K«)
' S H k 't 3 cIl > well almost new,
' st , hurti * n ".1 tons, and is I'uppoA'd will carry
• II or iico barrels, and lails faft. ft „ ot f„l4 |j, a
- Wlil (=ke Freight for Borton, Salem,
Newburyport, PoUfmoth, or the VVcd-Indios
Apply to WHARTON LEWIS.
No. 115, S. Front-Street.
IVho b we for file,
iVII Madeira Wine, Jam.iica Rum, Brandy, Juni
per Bcjtics, and 70. barrel* of Liver Oil.
O" A quantity ®f Potatoes felling from on
1 boaru said brig at as. 6d. per bushel.
ncvemlcr 15. j
For Sale or Charter,
The fad failing brig
ies, o Brothers,
Lyin- at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent fi„g| e dcck . d vdrd) hu * hen abou( '
6co barrels— not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the master
on board, or to
Jofepb Anthony & Co.
Nov. ' ,
; Five years old Madeira Wine,
' to OF tho very firft quality, in pipes, hhds. and
quarter calks, just landed from the (hip Edward,
a from Madeira, and for sale by
JOHN CRAIG,
ir. No, la, Dxjrlr-Ar-o«t. j
' V^ n Ha£ 'charter,
- CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about 1200 barrels,
j u (( hove down and put in com- |
plete order, and now ready to receive a cargo. I
Alf>, For SALE or CHARTER,
2 j °SE'PHU. s ,
B&umm ® urt ' len about 1800 barrels.
mveybcr 6. 3awtf.
ld i?'or Liverpool,
A' *?- The Sh ip
- CLOTHII R,
Nathaniel D. Gardner, majier,
fail about the ijth |
yy in ft. For freight or >af
fape apply to the Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf,
<"• JAMES OLDDEN,
j. Nov. 3. dtf No. 41, N. Front-street. |
>f FUK SALE, »T *"
, d f Joseph Anthony £«f Co.
r. No. 5, Chefnnt Street, I t
0 A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, tft and »d j
proof, just landed | -
250 bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality j
0 dp, -Surta, do do I
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
. Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits |p
p. Old London particular Madeira wine 7ln pipes & I
do. market do ( qr. calki.
New England rum in hogiheads \
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes I f
Claret in cases
permsceti candles and ftrain'd oif
Prime Boflon beef I a j
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels ' tl
Do, Herringindo do Ila
Befl Boston Mackarel ia barrels of the fall fare. I
New-England t l : ntn
A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Ruflia feather beds
■ Clovtr and Timothy feed in :aflcs
Long whalc-bone 1
No 1, 2, and .1, Bollon Tail durk
A few chests firli quality Hyson tea I
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and j \
An invoice of Dutch hollow glals ware.
November 8. d2W.
For Sale by the Subscribers"
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bouideanx Brandy
Tenet iffe IVine
MolaJJes j (
Georgia and Carolina Indigo j
Ravens Duct and one hogjhead of pant I
brujhes.
N. (5* y. Frazer. T
K°. 951 South Front Street. I los
N » v - 7. dim. ro]
Drawing & Fainting Academy,
No. 6.1, Walnut-flreet.' j Ui
JAMES COX,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and the J'fic;
generous public, that his academy opens this
day. November the 6th. I
Hours of tuition lorladie?, from % till 4 in the I
afternoon, and in Ihe evening from 6 till 8 for I
gentlemen. I
J. Cox has addad to his collevslion of copies a va- J
ricty of fine views, &c drawn from nature during I j s \
his absence from the city: I tQ
All kinds of colours prepared, and every article I
used in the different branches of drawing and I j s a
painting, fold on reafouable terms.
Terms of 1 uition, Six Dnllars and a half per I
quarter. ly
A morning elafs for grown ladies, frrom II till j .j .
11 o'clock. djt „,v. 6. ftr(
James & Richard Smith, _J
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends I
and the public, that they have removed their I
llore to No. 54, South Front-Jlrcet. next door to Ed- J
ward Fox's Au<sfcion Room, where they have at I
this time for sale, a large and general afTortmentof I
European & Eoji India Goods, • B
Many of which arc just imported In the Clothier, ftori
William Pcnn, &c. &c. ftre<
OcS. 17. {
St. Croix Sugar £9 9 Rum, p
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON & Co. A
daw. j, ear
Samuel Pleafants & Sons, Mifl
No. 74, South Second-Jlreet, a,ly .
HAVE r-ccived a supply of Seasonable GOODS, | v " m '
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. OA 27. —4W
Wanted,\ to Hire, i
A I arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near I f
thecentreof the city—for ivhicha generous I
t will be given Ito be taken for a year, or on I 1
e for a longer term.- Inquire of tha Pi intf.r.
Oft. 17. • sots I 1
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL cotpmeote drawing Monday, thezoth
inll. rickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
near Seven Dollars,'at Wm. BLACKBURN'* Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, Soutli Secor.d-ftreet
• ew » * ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at 'Ten
arr? Dollars, where check hooks arc kept lor regifter
ik a ing and examining: in these, the City oC Wafhing
lem, ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
_ tion where tickets may be had in molt of thcLottc
7. ries authorifad by law in any of the States of the
eet. Union.
- .?• "9* business of a Broker, in buying and
uni- e ' ,in g" all kinds cf Public Stock and Securities,
difcountng Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
on Lands, Houses, &c. See. will he duly attended to, j
b y Wm. BLACKBURN.
5 nov ember 15. ,c
A youngMan,who is acquainted
with accounts, wifUes employment. He will givf
lecuijty for any trust reposed in him, and recom
mendations if required. Should tufinefs offer
irf, where extra hours of attendance are neeeffary, he
5Ut ] ou ' ( ' have no obje&ion— a great salary wouid not
in , eX^? 6bed — a ,inc dire<a ed to B. B. and left at
v er t ' lw °ffice, will be attended to.
IT- », t#
Mordecai Lewis,
_ HAS FOR SALE,
g At his Store, No. 25, Great Dock-street,
nd 2 5° bales of Bengal Goods
'dj Containing Bafras
Coltas
G'urrahs
j Moragyguiigcct
Tookcry
Check and Stripes
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Mamoody
**» I Calicoes
R- J II boxes Irifli Linens
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
2$ canisters Java Sugar
78 bags black Pepper
do. East India Ginger
100 calks roll Brimftonc
7c pines Madeira Wine
I 5 7 Gin 1
A quantity of flieathing Copper and Nails.
Otftobcr 30. |
For Sale by the Subscriber,
, j White Plattilias
,' I Brown Hollands
J White Sheetings
f I Dowlafies
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siamoufes
- I Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Leoking Glades, in I
ia cases, &c. he.
j George Pennock.
I november 6. eod^w
>1 Teas of superior quality.
Bachefts fine Hyson
25 chtfts young Hyson
2 chests Imperial j f
I For Sale, corner of Second and Pine streets, by I -
< c. HAIGHT. '
I novtmberix. 3awtf I f
Samuel & Miers jt'iiher, L
ARE NOW OP EM ING,
At their Warehoitfc, No. 17, Dock Street,afrrft 0
j aftortment of Woolen and other goods, fuitablc to I
1 the season, received by the Ute arrival) from Enr-1
j land. 0 j -
I Tht lave also for Sale, I „
I.ilbon 7 . ' B
I 'i'eneriffe (. . j
Sherry, and ( D P'P«,nhds. and quarter casks-
Port V.'ires, 'J
Allotted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo- 23d. dlW3ta\v^w.
Walker &c Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAy F TO R SALE,
100 Hoglb&ids of prime Georgia Tobacco, I
ALSO,
50 Pipes of llonrdeaux Brandy,
j 10 Pipes of old Port Wine
j Oi3. 17. i«ti>tf I
N 0 1 I C E.
The holders of certificates of a
I loan to the exiled citizens of tha State of South Ca-
rolina and Georgia, under an a<3 of Congress 13d I
I .N't, ' 78*, are informed, tlat by lodging the f<m» I
with George Simpfon, Cashier of the Bank of th« I
j United States, they will be enabled to receive pay- I
I raciit oi principal and interest, asfoonasthe certi-I
J ficates can be forwarded to Charlcftori for fettle. |
I ment, and orders received for their discharge.
I November I. £ t I
A Negro Man.
SALE, the unexpired me (four y ears) I
17 of a flout, healthy, aitive rgro Man. Hi; I
I is by trade a Cooper, was brought up when a boy I
I to the farming bufinefs.isa good ploughman, un- |
I derftandsthe care and management of horses, and I
lis a good driver He has lately been employed in j
I painting a new house and paints well—he is good I h ri
I tempered, and believed to be very honest.sold part- I cct
Ily for want of employ,but more for being addifl- I
ed to liquor—For terms apply to No. 12, Dock I —■
street, noar Spruce ftrcst.
I Nov. 6. >f lAh
Window Glass,
Of Superioi Quality, and cheaper than any other in I C
the City—
OF FJRIGUS SIZES, « r
Fiom Bby 6t019 by 14,
By the (ingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the I
store of the Subscribers, cornei of Arch and Front-1 In
flreet,
James C. y Samuel W. Fijher. I La:
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797. <>iwmwftf j
Philadelphia, 08. z\th, 1797. |
ALL persons desirous to contrail to furnilh Ra- I f
tioiw and Quarter Mailer's Stures,during the I r,
year 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort f !
Mifflin, on Mud Tfland, Carlisle and Reading, or I
any of them, are desired to deliver their proposals, I Ra r "
under a sealed cover, oh or before the 20th No
vember next, to j .?
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor. I [„ s
The Rations to confijl of m ilt
I pound Flour or Bread I that
I pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Pork j was
i gill Rum , Brandy or Whiskey j 0 f t
1 lb. Candles j
2lb Soap ( T , , j will
2 quarts Vinegar ( To evc, T hundre d rations
I quart Salt " J &!ftlgthN j '
11. Gardeners take notice !
soth fa: "cri>>er; living in Jiroad, and corner of
at , . Gc, 'g" fti- '■{*, fro'prfes rj vingfoon, ami
tery having ;i q Uilm i, y „{ escslfrnt Cabbies and other
:t— »«•.•<.tallies, with a Cumber of ysung trees in the
To, f" a ° d > "ff-rs them at Priv.its s.<!e 5 and if net
?.er- ! oM , before Saturday, the iSth iti'ft; at a o'clock
in m t«e afternoon, thpy then will be put up at Pub
ma- " c cn '' ut ', on the premises.
tec- . The Garden is t 0 he ]cr, and imme
the a a ' e P'l ffion.gjven, for the rent of which apply
to John Lithe, no. 40, myth Sixth feet,
and , JOHN COLLIER.
:ies, '""''W 14. »_ n
of ~TO~BE~LET, ~~
A fpaciou:; dry floored Cellar,
L_ at the N. E. corner of 4th and Arcji-ftreets.
-d Nov - I - d 3 t
L v : R E MOV A L.
Lr
_ Maurice Moynihan,
at INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, Ghls. Queens
Ware, am. Dry Goods, from No 81 North Se
_ cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits thefa
vor of his former culh.mtrs.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the {horteS
notice.
novemher »,
JuJl Puhlijhed, and now Selling,
By RFNJ AillN- DAVI i£S,
N ° 68 " Hirh-Street,
Hie AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
A NNUALP EGlSTEkforthc UNITED S TA TES
• . . fOR THE YEAR | 708 2
Containing complete and correfl lills of the Exec*-
tivc, I cgiflative and Tudiciarv
DEPARTMENTS U GOVE KNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, necefWy to be
known in every State of the Union.
MmleUiJbeJ mit tiuo Lar.dfom, Zngravh?,,
One of which ,s depiftive of a melancholy fcena
that occurred during the American war.
Oct. 15.
Is. Landing this day,
- From on board tht schooner Two Friends, Dan
n ... lel Crawley, MaSer,
80 hhds. and } T „ • r> vt* «•
1 a pipes I Jamaica. RUM,
for sale by
George Latimer & Son.
uovemher 9.
l or lale by the Subscriber,
n No. 89, South Third street,
A few calks of high proof Brandy
60 Tiercel frefh Ri C e
40 Boxes of Chocolate
A large quantity of after ted window elafi, and
aoo pieces fail cloth, N». I to 8
Ravens Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal.
Samuel Brcck, Jun.
N. B. An excellent Corapting House to let on
y R ° n ' ' wh »rf. 6teod Nov , 2 _
Landing,
- From on board the fliip Edward, at Walnut
ftreet Wharf,
' London particular Madeira Wine
a of a f"P<Tior quality, For Sale by the fuKmber'.
> Robert Andrews.
novembcr 2. »
for sale,
By the Subscribe, at his Store, No. 7J , Soath
Water-ftrect,
A general assortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattlns
00. do. Luteflrisgs
00. d#. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyfou Teas
Long and ftiort Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Afiorted Glass Ware, in cases
WhiteandbrownHavanna Sugars, in boxes
Molane?, in hogflicacJ* '
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks
R.ed, yellow and pale Barks, in clitfts
Logwood, &c. &c.
7—tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
India Goods, ~ '
CONSISTINC OF 9
Haurial Humhums
Tickiccs
Patna Chintz
Taffatics
Punjum Cloths
C<; «ppa Romal, Pulicat, Barhar and Ban
danna Handkerchiefs
for sale by
JoJbua Gilpin,
No. 149, South Front itrect,
WHERE MAY be had
A few trunks of French Goods,
Confifling of plain and striped Silk Hose, Um
brellas and Ribbons. Alfa, a few boxes Sperma
ceti Candles, and a few barrels finoaked Herrings.
nwrnbtr IP. «tod?t
T-liis Day Publilhed,
Aad to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, aorr.er of
Second and Ghefnut streets,
Price 3-Btbi of a Hollar,
Obfervaiions on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The Hiflory of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In whiahjjie cHAUtiB or speculation
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
\ Late Secretauv of the Trsasury. is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br UIMS EL t.
This publication prefcr.ts a cpneife statement
of the base means pradifed by the Jacobiwscf the
United States to alperfe the characters of thof«
psrfons who arc confideredas hostile to their difor
gimzing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton ard MtlTrs
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, on the fub
)ea ot the documents alorel'aid, and a f, ries of let
ters ftom James Reynolds and his wife to Mr I-ia
milton, proving beyond the poflibilily of a doul*
that the connexion between him and Reynold''
7/\ , e result °[ ? darin g confpiraoy on the part
ot the latter ana his associates to extort money
A dilcount of one third from the retail price
"ill lit made in favor of wholefaie par chafer i for
CAsn. Ordojsto be addreiled to Mr "Vow s
Augufl 2j •
\Voi.VME XIIKEW-F.RUMSWICK, Nov'. i 4. re;
On Wedtitfdar'hi'l, rJ ' li o'clock, the* on
Prtlklfnt rtf the tMted St; t with his lajiy gf
and suite, arrived here on his way to the an
fe:<t of grovyruw'iit, escorted by the Wo'ict- n>«
bi-;<!->e troop of norf«,,<o!»«handed by cap- wl
tain Cdgsr ;he w*» rece : v.-d by Hut
itaiv.'th every ttinrk of refpeft atiid ei- <b°
tu ir j t'ue ft i.RI a grateful people, to a man or
v'l'.o'". life lias been so diilinguifhed in pro- re
hot!)." tie public good, and whofc ackliow- J i<<
1,-no;u\ abilities have beer, uniformly aiiddif- jp
i'Uerc fled'y employed in efb.blifhftig the in
happ«n<ffs of his country- and lir.der a fede
ral f:!nte and ringing of bells, vvas conduct- ir
ed to b:s quarters, at Mr, Drake';;. _ »'
•At two o'clock, the inhabitants of the ci- al
tv arid vicinity waited on the President with a
a# address ; it was preferred by col. Neil- h
Ton, who with col. Bayard, Mr. Cornclifis d
Teobroek and Mr. Ciaikfon, had been pre
\,'oufly appointed by the committee to wait t
(,*• the. President in New-York, with an in- 11
vitation to difie with them 011 his way to b
Philadelphia—The address was politely re- "
ceived, which, with the answer, we cheer- f
fully gite to the public. 3
Col. Neilfon introduced himfelf with the t
address to the President in the following
words :
Once more, I have the honor to Hand be- 2
fore you, Sir, behilf of the inhabitants of r
Ncvr-Brunfwick audits vicinity, and in their j
name, to offer you an address, expreflive of (
their affectionate esteem for your person, ,
and of the high gt atification they experi- 5
encc at the administration of their govern* ,
merit being placed in your bands; with per- ]
million I will deliver the address. J
~ I
7 o the President of tie United States.
The address of the inhabfnmrs "f- tttC | 1
tr of New-Brunfwick, and its vicifu'ty. f 1
' ST R,
The inhabitants of the city of New-
Brunfwick, and its vicinity, are highly grat
ified with the opportunity of ex pr effing to
you their affe&ionate esteem.
Happy in a government of laws, and hap--
py hi the administration of it under the great
and good Wafhinjrton, we could not but
sincerely rejoice, when the voice of our coun
try, upon his retirement, gave us for a
Chief Magiftratc, a person whose past ser
vices had endeared him tu bis country, and
vrho e political principles enfurcd h m the
Confidence of his fellow-citizens.
The sentiments, Sir, which you have dis
closed refpe£ling the duties of the United
States, in regard to their foreign relations,
while they meet with our unequivocal ap
probation, are at the fame time a happy
presage, that the measures which you are
pnrfuing will terminate in the security of
our peace 1 , and in the pret rvation of the
honor and dignity of our national charadter.
Vv'e have her»rd, S'r, the voice of fadtion,
and we have abhorred it—we have fcen the
progress. of foreign influence, and we have la
mented its pernicious Religion,
morality, and patriotism havs had much to
fear—hut we indulge the pleasing hope,
that be who sways the sceptre of universal
nature, has not destined the people of this
happy country to work out their own def
truftion. _ 5j -j
W.'th us, as Jersey men and citizens of
the United States, we are prompled to de
clare, that a l»ve of order and good govern
ment, a sacred regard to moral reftitude,
and the fame ylmor Patri<e which so indig
nantly recoiled at the idea of foreign domi
nation, dill remain undiminiihed.
May it, Sir, be your happy lot to fee that
the people of this country will rally under
no other standard but their own, in support
of their Constitution, and in defence of the
laws of their country.
May your our govern
ment be long and profpuiaus, and when it
{hall please the great ruler of the univerfeto
summon you into "a more exalted feat of eter
nal bliss, may you, retiring, bid adieu to
your gri'teful country by the pleasing appel
lation of HAPP\ PEOPLE !
loiin Neilson, In behalf of the
John Bayard, inhabitants of the
A.W.White, city of N. Brun-
Lewis Dunham, fwick.
Fred. Frelinghuy sen,
Archibald Mercer,
In behalf of the inhabitants of the
vicinity of New-Brunfwick.
To -which the President returned the following
answer..
To the Inhabitants o/"New-Brihjswick
and its Vicinity.
Gentlemen,
The esteem and affeftion of the inhabi
tants of the eity of New-Brunfwick and its
vicinity, expressed in this excellent address,
are very'flattering to me, and cannot fail
to meet with a cordial return of gratitude
on rfiy part.
The happiness you enjoyed in a govern
ment of laws, under the great jind good
W ifhington, was common to you, and all
virtuous men in America. Even the very
fen- who imagined, or pretended they dif
lifced it, could not but be happy under it.
The fatisfadlion you expref* in the choice
of a successor, your approbation of his pail
frrvices, and confidence in his political prin
ciples, demand his moil flrenuous endeavors
to deserve their continuance.
Your approbation of my sentiments of
our foreign relations, and the measures we
are pursuing afTord me miich consolation,
as nothing can contribute so much to suc
cess, the continuanee of peace, and the pre
servation of the honor and dignity of our
national chara&er, as a happy harmony a
mcngjhe people, and their union in fenti
with government.
If the voice of faction has been heard,
and foreign influence has made a progress ;
if religion, morality and patriotism, have
bad much to fear ; we have reason to be
iicve that this has been chiefly due, to fur
pnfe and niifreprefentation, aided by an eu
thufiafm for liberty too ardent, a«d intem
perate. • The progress of enquiry, rnd cir
cti'at'on of true inferm'tion, ve have jreat
rcsfiutto espeft will jrttt our countrymen I
on their gn?rd, promote aa in-p3Jtial spirit enei,
of Independence, a rational fp'rit oi'liberty, thn
and a Tob'Cr'determination to prefcrve their
morals and support their religion, without
which patriotism is but a chimera. the
\ our noble declaration as Jcrfeymen and abh
cftiz<ft*'of the United States in favor or
order, government, morals, patriotism and
religion, does you grt;at honor, and cannot
Mto have a happy influence, and afford a the
great encouragement to fimilnr resolutions fioi
in all parts of the Union. the
Tint it will be your nappy lot as well as
mine, to fee the people rally under their the
own standard, in contempt and de' v ance of cot
allothvrs, in support of their conih'tntion, cot
and defence of their country whenever occa- bei
fion shall require, I have not the smallest? cit
doubt. b'g
In return for your pathetic wishes for tlx
the prosperity of mv administration, and in
for the final completion os- it, moll devout- ani
ly to be wished, by taking my lall leave es
of a happy people, which have tenderly as- the
feiftdd mc, I present you my bell wishes, gl
and' offering up my sincere prayers, for your ex
temporal and eternal felicity. co
JOHN ADAMS.
After which a great number of the citi- 1
zens were presented to the President, and Ps
received by him with that graceful eaie and
politenefs, which is the true mark of real a F
dignity, and nobleness of mind—we men- f>'
tion with pleasure that among the citizens ln
introduced to the President were a number cr
' of the substantial old farmers of the neigh
' borhond, who exprefled the highest satis- '
fadtion at the truly republican, affectionate
behaviour of their chief magistrate.
The President having before accepted
■ ;!ir InrWatiVip fynin thy inhabitant* of the
city and its vicinity to dine with tfienr, ar
o'clock. Gen. White, Mr. Harderfbeigh
" and Mr. Boggs, a committee chosen to ad- 1
• just the preliminaries for his reception and
3 entertainment, waited on him at his lodg-
ings, and conduced him thro' a lane form-
*' td of citizens, and citizen soldiers of the
' city and neighborhood in complete uniform,
' amidst a large eoncourfe of admiring fpefta
" tors, to the white-hall tavern, where up
a wards of fifty sincere friends to the govein-
" ment of their country, were gratified in
the opportunity of fitting duwn at table>
e with the feithful guardian of their rights
and privileges, and partaking with him of
a handsome repast provided for the occasion,
cI by Mr. Vernon.
'' After dinner the so lowing toaffs were -drank.
Ifi. The United States—May their Union a
'* be perpetual, and their honor inviolate. c
id. The Conjlitution and laws.—May jl- j
mericans ever remember, that law is liberty, t
C and the Conjlitution the sacred palladium of ppo t
liticfll fafety. 1
' The Vice-President and both Houses of J
Congress'—As Guardians of the liberties of (
their country, may their %eal for tlx common J
'* good, lanifh from their councils every sentiment
inimical to so great a purpose. t
•j 4th. GEORGE W StiINGTON S the ,
pride and omamtnt of his country, may, he ,
p" long live happy in his retirement. {
sth. The Marquis La Fayette—May he |
£ have the happiness to fee the revolution which ,
has convulsed Europe, speedily terminate in e- ,
qual liberty, remote from tyranny on the one ,
hand, and licentiousness on the other. (
6th. General Kofciufto —May the ardent ,
• ejleem of the friends of freedom, be n balm to t
his wounds, and a sweet consolation in his re- :
tirement — i
Ith. Our Foreign Mini/lers —May the luf- ,
tre of their patriotism, their firmnefs, fidelity j
r and candor, secure refped to their country, and
convince the world that our councils are founded ,
on the broad bqfis of national re3itude and ho- j
• nor. ;
Sth. The Congress of 1776 —May we du- ]
° ly appreciate their resplendent magnanimity end ,
r patriotism, and be emulous to support untarnifh-
I ed, those glorious rights so nobly asserted.
<)tlj. The memory of the patriots who fell in '
defence of American Freedom—May their ex
1C ample be a lejfon to us, jujlly to regard its tnva-
| e luable blejftngs.
loth. Independence—May a sense of na- (
tional honor exalt the American charaßer above
a debafmg predilection for, or fear of any fo
reign power under heaven.
11 th. The American Press—may it meet
with due support when open for mcn'y discus
sion, but never become countenanced when it le
-0 comes the vehicle of licentious abuse.
12th. May the friends of America le im
pressed with a suitable resentment againfl every
inflanee of foreign interference with refptß to
its government.
" 13th. The American charaßer—May all
p' S but true federalifis be found wanting, when
•! weighed in the American balance.
1 Agriculture—may induflry, frugality
e end innocence, ensure the American farmers
" rural felicity."
"j I sth. Commerce—May the American csm
mcrce be as unbounded as the ocean, and as un
rejlrained as its waves.
'.T 16th. The American fair —may they smile
j t ~ upon the friends, and never ccafe to frown upon
the enemies of their country.
j.' t By the President of the United States :
May the wisdom of the citizens of the fat e
3rs of Ncw-ferfy, continue as coufpicuous as the
laurels of their valor are immortal.
of By the Chairman (after the President had
we retired)
The President of the United States ; may his
1C ! adminiflration of our government ever be firmly
re _ supported by a virtuous and enlightened people.
>ur J%OLUNTKKi Toasts.
a- By the deputy chairman.
iti- Prosperity to that ufeful class of citizens the
mechanics of the United States ; may they meet
rd, with encouragem nt according to their merit.
"s j By judge Morris.
ive Our ffer States, may our only emulc. ion be,
>e- whofhall produce the bfl citizens.
ur- By general White.
:ii- Governor Bowel! ; may the field of virtu
m- and honor proteß him the arrows of
:ir- envy and malice.
Br&j&ral
Halters in the fats of fetft'.ian, atufop every , Stal
enemy of our happy gavcrntmnt fjteeJy njorma- citii
tin.
By Mr. Grew'.
1 imoih'y Pickering, Secretary of State, nmy To
the cau/e of jujlice and truth never want so c
able a defender. |
2?y Mr. Campbell'
The tower of Bab.'l to all antfedermifls. I
In the evening the company retired to hav
their refpeftive quarters, with every expref- titu
fion of fatisfaftion, at the manner in which fer\
they had spent the day. 1 '
At eight o'clock Thursday morning, of
the President ofi' his journey, ef- the
corted by Major Dunham's troop of horse, Nc
commanded by Lieut. Voorhees, the major ap
being absent, attended by a hrge number of mu
citizens eight miles on his way, when he a- to
lighted from his carriage, and took leave of tht
them, after expressing his th inks to them , enl
in an obliging manner for their politeness, ch
■ and in return received their good with- afi
es.for a pleafapt journey, accompanied with ' I ;
■ their earned hope, for a co-uperation of con- ed
, greffional wisdom and patriotism, with his A
r exertions to promote the welfare of their vo
country. 1 t(>
Col. Neilfon and Judge Mercer, the Pre- it
fident and Vice President appointed to fu- pr
j perintend the ceremonies of the table, on ch
j Wednesday, were gratified in receiving the p<
j approbation of their fellow-citizens in re- th
gard to their conduft on the occasion—and an
in return expressed their thanks for the dif- , di
creet and judicious fupportof the company, j ca
On Thursday the gth injlant, the following te
e x addrefs as the Legislature of this Jlate, then ac
in fejfmn at Trenton, was presented to the , di
j President of the United States, who was d
in that place on his way to thefeat af govern
... rnent.
£ ~TU 7 NADA MS,
1 ' President of the United States, a<
d SIR '
p THE Legislative Council and General
J Assembly of New-Jersey, with much plea
sure embrace this opportunity of assuring
1 you of their high refpeft for your person
l ' and charafler both in your political and in- e
5 dividual relations. h
1 _ Warmly attached to the principles of a t
j n free representative government, we rejoice I
j e that in experience, the ele&iou of a Chief n
ts Magistrate has been condufted with temper- t
u s ance, and shewn to the world, that freemen u
n can deft without turbulence or tumult, and
' that integrity and ability will be the objeft
of their choice.
*• Your early agency, Sir, in promoting 5
cn andeftahlifhing theliberty and independence (
of our country, and since that time your net
gociations ahroad and various public func- 1
IV> tions at home, afford the bappieft. presage t
that your present administration will not 1
only protest our interests, but also promote 1
°f hnrmony and unanimity among the citizens 1
c f of. these ftatts, and friendly sentiment and i
,J " intercourse with all mankind. I
■ nt Involved as we are in the conflicting in- I
terefts of this eventful period, while we 1
! je would court the favor of calm investigation, ■
we do not forget that man is born to be j
free and must not yield to dishonor. Con- 1
:e fcious that unity of sentiment and firmnefs
' of conduft are the surest means of securing 1
our liberties, we yield to none in attach- '
"" ment to our government and promptness to 1
defend it ; but while we feel the enthusiasm
■ n( we deprecate the occasion, and, relying on
'® the wisdom of our constitution and thejuft
re ~ administration of it, we anticipate the pleas
ing profpeft of nations yet unborn enjoying
u f~ undiminilhed, the rights which it fh:ill have
,f y protested and secured.
n <l Be affnred, Sir, of our warmest wiflies for
l"! your personal welfare, and our sincere de
l>o" fire that your public conduft may meet the
approbation and be rewarded with the grat
itude of your fellow-citizens, and finally
terminate in the felicity of your country.
fh- _
ANSWER.
in TV tte Legiflat'Ve Council, and General
Affembly%f the State of New Jetfey.
>a- GENTLEMEN,
I receive this address from the legislative
iat council and general assembly of New-Jersey
>ve w J t h a grateful sense of the high honor con
fo- f erre d upon me.
As there is no people whose attachment
Met the principles of a free reprefentat've go
vernment has been more constant and con
sistent than that of the citizens of New-Jer
sey, there is none with whom I could more
im- heartily rejoice, that eleftions of a Chief
try Magistrate have been condufted without tur
-10 bulence or tumult ; and may future experi
ence demonstrate, that integrity and ability
"II will always be the objeft of the choice of
ben freemen.
.. Your kind compliments to me, merit my
J best thanks and strongest affurartces, that
" rf (hould any thing in my administration pro
test your interest in common with all those
of your fellow-citizens through the union,
promote harmony and unanimity among the
.., citizens of these states, and friendly senti
ments and intercourse with all mankind, 1
° n (hould esteem myfelf the happiest of all men.
In this eventful period, when the equilib
rium of society is difadjufted, and thepaffion3
late ftprtun let locfe, without restraint or con
the troul, in so great a part of the world, it
behoves us well to consider the situation w-e
had arc f n> atu l be prepared in our mindß for
whatever we may be called by Providence to
' !"■' do, or to fuffer, in the cause of honor and
■mly virtue, religion and liberty.
'/"k Your sentiment, that we must not yield to
dishonor, so well becomes the charafter and
dignity of freemen, that it is very certain
■ the there never has been, and equally evident
m:et there never can be, a free people to whom
1. their honor is not dearer than their lives.
As the citizens of New-Jersey have been
ri be, exceeded by none in their attachment to the
constitution, your reliance on the ju 11 admi
nistration of the government, is peculiarly
irtur honorable arid agreeable to mc.
is of Accept, gentlemen, of my cordial thanks
for your kind widies, and an assurance of my
fmcere prayers for the felicity of the United ■■
States in general, and for-the legislature and
citizens of Ncw-Jerfcy in particular.
JOHN ADAMS.
To majors Meeker, Ward and Dunham,
captains Haynes, Edgar, Gulick and r
Smith, of the Nevtf-Jeifey cavalry.
GENTLEMEN,
1 IT affordt>J me a peculiar fat isfaftion to
have it in my power to fay, that the promp- co^:
titude and punftualitv which have been ob- WCI
f-rved by you, and the oSiccrs and dragoons the
,of your refpeftive troops, (in the execution the
'of your patriotic and polite offer of escorting ( ' K
the President of the United States thiough hai
.New-Jersey) has merited anJ obtained the l ' 1(
approbation of many worthy citizens, and ca '
mull claim the applause of all who arc friends un
!to our happy government* and with well to kr<
the Chief Magistrate of it, whose ftatiori Ts
, entitled to attention and refpeft, and whose ' ia
character so juflly deserves the efteein and 10
sffeftion of his fellow-citizens.—Although w<
I am fully persuaded, that your having aft- rc '
ed under 110 other mandate than that of true
American patriotism (in performing this tn
voluntary, pleasing and houorable duty) is w '
ito you a sweet reward ; yet as I conceive ei
it my duty at all times to encourage and
• promote military parades, in »y official
1 character ; I (hall therefore embrace the op-
: portunity which now offers iu reporting to
- the commander in chief, the martial appear- te
1 ance and good conduft of the officers ar.d
- dragoons under your command on this oc- al
. calion ; and have no doubt but his excellen
j cy's approbation will be expressed in such
7 terms as will be pleasing to you, and must c<
1 add to that fatisfaftion, which citizen sol ®
e diers always, experience in having done their
s ! duty. b
- ANTHONY W. WHITE, Adj. Gen. t]
n
On Friday last the legislature of this state
adjourned to the 3d Wednesday Tn January
next.
il
SALEM, November 7.
g Flag "f the United States.
n A law of Congress, passed Jan. 13, 1794,
1- enafts, that the flag of the United States ?
be 15 stripes, alternate red and white ; that "
a the union be 15 stars, white in a field blue,
e It is faidthat the French have captured A- ?
;f merican vessels for want of conformity to c
r- the above description ; and many Hill fail *■
n under the thirteen striped flag.
a TOJVN MEETING. 1
The inhabitants of this town assembled 1
g yesterday, to take into consideration the
;e fubjeft of granting a sum, as additional to '
e- the pay of government, to those men who 1
c- might be drafted in this town, as a part of '
re the detachment of 80, coo militia ordered '
at by Congress. And also to fee whether 1
te they would grant a compensation to the mi
ns Iftia of the town when called out for ordi
id nary trainings, pursuant to law. In the
firft cafe, it was voted, that T<wo Dollars '
n- fliould be paid to C3cK . 1.. r^ 1
ve his appearance upon parade for infpeition
n, armed and equipped according to law ; and
be fourteen dollars a month if called into service,
n- and one month's pay in that cafe advanced,
fs The other question, which was founded
ig upon a supposed unjuflinequality in the bur
h- then of militia expenfesj met a cool and can
to did discussion. Every speaker avowed the
"m sentiment on which the question was bro't
)n forward ; but it was doubted whether a
lft vote of pay for that purpose would have a
if- ny validity, if it fliould be disputed when
ig the taxes were assessed and attempted to
ve be collected ; and in this cafe much confu
lion might ensue in the final arrangements of
or the town. The discussion iffucd in the ap
le- pointment of a numerous and refpeftable
he committee, to investigate the legality of
it- making such compensation, and (hould they
ly find it legal, and expedient, to recommend
a certain sum for that purpose, and the ways
and means for raising it, and make report
at the adjournment onthefiril Monday in
ral December next.
A CURIOSITY.
ive In a small tree, in the garden of Mr. D.
"ey a wren, a linnet and a blackbird, built their
>n- refpeftive nests, the last season. The little
musical tenants of the tree lived together in
rnt perfeft harmony, and, according to the
50- falhion of the times, paid their rent to Mr.
in- D. in h'oTss.
0- „
are ■
r f The Canal Lottery,
Will re-commence drawing, on Monday
; tv the aoth inft.
„ y f ROBERT BROOKE,
Check Clerk.
Nov. 11. dt2o.
my -
ROSS Ssf SIMSON,
T °" HAVE FOR SALE,
° n e A few bales Baftas, C.ofias, and
' a quantity of Rergal CO f TON
Bengal SUGAR, in Lag< and boxe»
Jamaica, ~)
, 1 St. Vincert9, > RUM.
ten. and Bengal J
lib- 360 carfks RICE, rpd
A parcel of fliiu building RED CEDAR.
lon3 oa. i 7. §
on- .
' To Gentlemen who intend /pending
ike Winter in the City.
f ta ROOMS to LET,
3,1 or without Board—at No. 114, corner
W of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
dto agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
and contagion. OA. a** —dtf
\IZ " To be Sold,
n °m Valuable Plantation,
|T\F upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
)een watered, in a he«lthy situation, about
the I.yen miles from this City ; the buildings may be
Jmi- made to accommodate a hrge family, at a mode
;,r]v rate ejtpenfe, and poffeflion had in a f vr weiks.
Part ef the purrhafe-money being paid, a reason
able cru'it will be allowed for th. r, maindere
jnks Fn.jeirc of the Printer.
Fmy r.uvcm'.xr 3 mwftf
X!)e <sasCtte.
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY I'VEMING, NOVEMBER 16.
Particulurs of the Mutiny on board the Bri
. tift Frigate lIE RMIONE.
When about 3 days out from Cape Ni
cola Mole, 011 a cruise, part of the crew
were engaged handing the mizen topsail ;
the captain speaking (harp to them, two of
the men fell from the yards ; when the fl
eers came down they were reprimanded in
harsh terms by the captain, and several of
them threatened with punishment—this oc
casioned much discontent, which continued
until the next evening, when the mutiny
broke out, by throwing double headed (hot,
&c. about the fliip, and other disorderly be
haviour, The firft lieutenant went down
10 enquire what they Wanted, and was soon
wounded in the arm with a tomahawk ; he
retired for some time, and when he returned
was knocked down with a tomahawk, his
throat cut, and thrown overboard.—After
which the sailors proceeded to the cabin in
search of the captain who had locked him
felf in, but was soon dragged out (after
having wounded 2 or 3 in defending him
felf with his sword) and experienced the
fate of his unfortunate lieutenant : they af
terwards seized npon and murdered every
officei in the (hip, except a mailer's mate,
and two midlhipmen
They then direfted their course for La
Guira, where they arrived under Spanish
colours, and delivered the (hip up to the
Spanish government, giving out that they
had turned their officers adrift in their jolly
boat. The Spaniards have since manned
the (hip and sent her to fca. Our infor
mant further adds, that the crew of the
. Hermione were a mixture of several nations.
(A.D.A.)
The following is an extract of the speech
of Riou in the council of 500, Sept 15,
as publi(hed in the " Gazelle ffiftorique et
Politique, de la France et de l'Europe."
" It is notorious that the Engliffi carry
! on three fourths of their,trade under Amer
t iean colours. The passports of the Presi
dent of the United States ar# publicly
granted in London. With the certainty
j of tbefc fads, justice, the consideration
j due to the government, the encouragement
merited by the zeal of the owners of priva
teers, and refpeft for the 329 th article of
the constitution, induce me to present the
following projeft. " s
The council of 500 considering that the
0 decree of the t2th Ventofe last, relative to
maritime prizes is not contrary to .the 329
article of the constitution, declares that
there is no room to deliberate on the pro
positions of Paftoret in the fitting wf th;
1 2d Meffidor.
The council repeals the decree which had
created a special commiflion to examine the
reclamations of maritime prizes. /De
n "eed.")
n —of-Suiiiihaaax as a member
j from St. Domingo of the coiffliCll Op $00 —
was declared valid Sept. 16th.
'* LATEST ACCOUNTSfkom FRANCE,
Ey t!.e Woodhop SIM 3.
r- w
Tranjlated for the Gazettee of the U. States.
Ie
1 - From the Bulletin of Rouen, Sept. 15.
a Letter of the 11 th FruClidor, written by
Adjutant General Moel Huard, to his
n friend at Paris.
0 At length, my dear friend, we can no
J " longer doubt that the emperor has great
~r friends at Paris. When we were at the
?' gates of Venice, he accepted all, and to
'e day he denits himfelf; for ten days past it
appears here, that hostilities will recom
:y mence. General Bnonaparie has reviewed
K ' us, and we are nut left ignorant of the con
s'' 8 duCl of the emperor. All the officers and
rt soldiers replied that they knew the road to
111 Vienna, and that they would try it a second
time. Buonaparte immediately after set out
for Udine, where the council is afiembkd,
for the purpose of obtaining a prompt ex
plication from these mtjfteurs.'
Mr The Journal des Hommes libres announces
' e the discovery of a movement at Blois—lt
ln fays that from the 20th to the 21ft they had
a report of a courier sent by Carnot to ge
■r* neral Clarke, with dispatches, the objeft of
which was to conclude a peace at any price.
This, without doubt, determined the di
• reftory to order the arreftation of Clarke.
Sept. 18.
,y The news from Marseilles of the 22d,
fays a journalist is every way unfatisfafto
ry. The national gunrd was formed the
19th, ala Pichegru. The republicans have
not made their appearance ; they would have
been afTaffinated. . All the Chouans and
cut-throats are enrolled. The most famoiu
afiaffins are officers.
1 The city is always guarded ; viz. Part
of the Chouans are encamped without and
have their patroles like a city befiegcd ;
they wait with impatience f<Sr the news
frpm Paris, and threaten daily to carry mta
fures to the last excess, even ftiould they hear
that their party is vanquished, adding* that
j they have no asylum left if tbs 'government
(hould triumph.
n ~ s Extraft of a private letter from Artenay,
September 12.
" The tnmfpoKed deputies arrived here
yesterday at 11 o'clock in the morning.—
; 0 n The waggons in which they are carried
late elofed by iron bars, are covered entirely with
f planks painted red—No light is admitted
except before and behind, and the hauteur
with which they conduct themselves is fuffi
cient to prevent their being seen. The door
of entrance is locked and bolted.
, out ' General Dutertre, who commands the
fbe escort composed of 160 Hudars, permitted
3de- them here, for the firft time to dine out of
r lks - their carriages—He provided a room, for
bidding any thing to be given them with
out his order, or to communicate with them,
tf An adjutant general named Hochereau, hadtold them that they would go to Orleans
t'>it evening. TV gen t f„l had him imme
diately arrested, and condnfted by a gen
darme to Paris.
The prisoners all complain of the incon
venience of their carriages—Three of there
are sick, particularly Barthelemi. His
countenance (hews the alteration of his
health ; he is melancholy and fad. Piche
gru, his countenance serene, his deportment
firm ; he prefervtjs his military fang J raid.
After dinner they set off for Orleans, where
they will arrive in the evening.
Tranjlated for llie Aurora.
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
September 13.
The central administration of Precy de
Done congratulates the councils, that they
hadcrnlhed theroyalift cOnfpirators. You
have declared, fays their address, that the
French armies have deserved well of their
country ; well tl e whole people declare that
you have well deserved their eftcem. Hon
orable mention.
The republicans of Chalons-fur-Marne
write as follows : By crushing the feeds of
royalifm you have well deserved of the
country, &cf.
A member observed that an article of the
law passed on the organization of the gen
darmerie, requires that each private (hall be
nfclq to read and wrirc cvrreS'.y So rigo
rous a condition, he observed, would drive
from their places a croud of decided repub
licans, whose families would be plunged in
to misery. He moved that this subject be
referred to the military committee. Agreed.
The fubjeA of finances was taken up.
The report of a decree was adopted laying
a tax on public carriages for the traufpor
tat'on of pertons of one tenth part of the
hire »f such carriages, when they travel at
stated periods, and on public carriages for
the transportation of persons travelling oc
casionally as follows :
Tor a two wheeled carriage with two feats
20 livres per annum.
For a two wheeled carriage with four feats
35-
For a four wheeled carriage with four
fe3ts 40.
For a four wheeled carriage with fix feats
and above, 50. v
A turnpike toll for the receipt of monies
to be exclusively appropriated to the repair
of the highways was also agreed to. The
receipts of each turnpike are to be rented
out to the highest bidder. The plan fs to
b*put in operation on the portions of high-
Ways nearest Paris, and thence to be ex
tended gradually to the frontiers in every
direftion. ,
T'ie eltablifhment of a national lottery
was also decreed.
In the name ci the committee of inspec
tors Cales presented a report on a dress for
the representatives of the people. [lt
Ihould be remarked that the former projeft
of decree on the fuhjeft of a coflume for
the legislature never became a law. J It was
to consist in a blue coat red lining the col
lar and facings embroidered in gold ; gol
den button damped with a balance and iev
cl ; a tricolor fa(h ; a deep red silk cloak
for the elders, and one rose color for the
five hundred, which should fall four inches
lower than the coat. Round hat with a
feather, golden loop.
Chafal conceived this coflume resembled
too much the military dress. He offered
another plan, which he conceived harmo
nized better with that of the directory.
Upon the motion of Coupe tbe council
ordered the printing of the plan of Cales.
Sept. 14.
, ' The citizens of Chinon congratulate the
council on the events of the 18th Fruftidor.
The national representation fay they is no
longer under oppression, liberty is redo red
for thenp ; long live the republic.
The adminillration of one of the cantons ,
of the department of l'AUier, write that tbe
adminillrated are awake, and ready to march
against the enemies of the republic. Hon- '
ourable mention in the minutes.
' Jourdan (of Haute Vienne) called the ]
attention of the council to the situation of ,
the wounded defenders of the'eountry, and
the relations of those who had expired in the j
field of honor and of those who still served •
under the banners of the republic. He 1
dated, that by the fall of ailignats the com
pensation allowed them by the existing laws
wag merely nominal. On his motion a fpe- (
cial committee was appointed 011 this sub- I
jest. \
Pons (of Verdun) proposed a decree tend- '
ing to annul the prosecutions on foot against I
persons relative to the holding of tha pri
niary assemblies, and to rellore to liberty (
the citizens who had been thrown into pri-
son on the occasion. He moved, that urn
gency he declared and that the decree Ihould (i
pass without delay. , v
Philippe Delville, moved that it be print-
ed, and the consideration adjourned. j
Several members wilhed a queftioti on the v
decree. c
Pons (of Verdun) I am surprised th:;t my
colleague Ihould wish the queftioti adjourn
ed. Docs he not know, that in several of
the departments the republicans are groan
ing in fetters ! In the department of Nievre
alone, which was the head quarters of the 5'
royallHs and chouansthereare more than 20c
who have been thrown into dungeons.—
These fa£b are certain, and I hope that n
Delville will cite others as a motive in favour C i
of the adjournment. lr
Philippe Delville wished the delay be-
cause the measure was important, as it
went to interrupt the usual course of justice.
He admitted the facts breught forward by ii (
the reporter ; but thought a delay of 24 ki
hours could not &e pregnant with very bad 151
consequences.
Sautreau was opposed to the adjournment.
Is it not, he asked, a great evil to fufftr citi
zens to remain 24 hours in fetters ? In my
department a multitude of artisans have been p<
iniprifoned,by virtue of mandates cf arrefla- n:
tion, executed in the night time, by the
•-, 0 r.:.-/y, juu utvJUTipiijtfa wan tne molt
e "J terrifying clrctmftasice: 5 aud the royalifti
1- thus conduced the©jfe!vee, in order to ter
rify the patriots, prevent their attendance in the
1- aJfembTies andfecure the %Sioni.
t> The vote of urgency was carried and also
is the decree.
is F thafTf-raux, Ihe eldfr, in the name of a special
r °m<ml'cc. made , rrpmf on tbe Ht-fHons of St Do-
He concluded it by the following plan of
decree, which was adoptrd
Ait. I. The law which declares null the eleftiont
■ e made by the elcrtoral rffcmbly, holden at Cape
rrancois, for tbe 4 h year, is repealed Gonfequently
are admitted in-o ihe, Lei>illittvc body, and will lake
their fells in the council of elders, the citizens Hro -
tier, I.avaux, and in the council of five htnidird, the
ciikens Thomoni, Sonlhonax, Petiiniaud and Boirei,
jun.
11. The rtefiiiMM made by the He/Wriil iff. cibly,
held at the Cape, on the 10 h Germinal, .th year of
e the Republic, are declared* val d lor four membois,
y which St. Domingo his a fend, agreeably 10
the last schedule ol the number of deputies aoporiiou
ed to each deparrment. Cnn r equ.-ntly are d elarcd
e members of the !igifla:ive body and stall like their
r feats in the council ol elders the . I,'ir.ens Etirmie
t Mcn'or and James Tonnelier, and in the council of
five hundred, the citizens P «ire-Joseph I.eborgne,
and William-Henry Veiijniaud.
To the tribunal of cassation (errors and appeal.)
e titiz-n Miibek.
£ Villieu called the a't-n'ioi of :he council to the '
debt, proofing that ore '! ird of the in-ercft on the ]
public debt should be n*itl in calh, beginning with i
'he last hx month* of the <;'h year;«nd that ihe other
5 two thirds (hull l«e paid in notes, payable to bearer,
which notes are 10 be received in payment tor na
tional domains. The tax on (droit d'en
• re K's tremene) to be appropriated to the difcbar.e of ,
. the cash ihitd. 0
Won du Galand was avei fe to the plan He wish- j
ed ihe firft oart of the proieft adopted, that relating .
to the paytntnt of the third in calh and th= other I
poftponcd.
. Julicn Souhait :hought the p'ojeft more plausible
than lolid. It did not place the creditors on a bet er
tooting He made this calculation': SuDpofing you
give the credi ors one third in calh that will be 80
* millions : bui they now receive a lciut:h 60 millions,
and cenifita'es which may be nut at ao millions, ma
king also 80 millions ; 1A courl'c they ate as well si
tuated as the prnjeft wonld make them. He was in
favnui of a poftooiiemi nt. -
Fabie took ihe pan of ihe fredi'ois alf«. He
moved that the c uncil should dccu-e that the oay
ment of the firft third Ihould be made agreeably to
the n!?.* propofrd. and that ihe tax on rrgiftering
i should be appropriated for this efteft ; and that tail
ol the plan waich' rentes to the iwo-thirds, be refer
red back to the committee, whom every member was
' invi .ed to enlighten wi h their experience, by attend
ing their fitting. Adopted.,
Sept. 15.
i'ottLAlN Oranprc brought forward a pro
i jei£t <d dtcree refpefiing the replacing of difmifT
ed admiiiiftratora, winch -aras adopted.
, The law of the 3«->th JVleflidor, which takes
from the Direflory the conftitutiona! right of
making those appointments, when there does
not remain in the administration a of
members fufucier.t to deliberate was repealed.
Adminiflrations of the law now proposed are to
fill up vacancies in their own body only when
they have a rutnberaf members fuffkient to de
liberate ; when they have not, the Diretflory
are to maktt the appointment agreeably to the
conliitntion.
ViLLfas in the name of the Financial Com
mittee called the attention of the council to the
fwbjefl .if the public debt. The tefult of the
fitting tbe committee had held last evening was,
the impoflibihty of I'eparating the two parts of
thrprojedl, that relating to the one third to be
paid ia cash, and that propufing the other two
thirds to be difcliarged hy certificates payable
to bearer, and receivable for national property.
The two parts of theprojeft Ihould go hand in
hand.
Such wai th» result of the deliberations of the
committee; they had also to propose some addi
tional articles difcrimir.ating in favor of final!
creditors.
Jwlion Souhait now fuppr.rted the plan. One
great deftderatum, on which he faiii the com
mittee had agreed, was, tha' the file of nation-'
al property fc; uld b; proccedtd to with vigour.
It served to attach the pin rhafrrs to the repub
lic. Abuses had crept into this department ;
Rut the minister of finance had allured the com- |
mittee that they were owing to the adminiflra
tions which were compoftd chiefly of mtn who
were enemies of the Republic and hindered the
sales ; hutfincethe il'th Fru<£tidor, the govern- .
ment will be able t» watcb effectually those ad- ! ,
miniftrators, and things have changed their j
completion. | ,
Rt'i z opposed the proje>sl of decree on the <
ground that it did not do full jtiftice to the cre
ditors The contrafl between the state antl its
creditors could not without violating the firft
principles of justice be infringed. If it was, ail
flab would be given t -public credit. He treat- r
ed as chimerical the idea of redeeming with iv (
tiohal domains the two thirds to be paid nowin t
paper. They might as well talk of the land 6in t
California as those in St. Domingo which re- f
maincd the property of the state. f
ViLLkRs argued, that the projefl did every 1
justice to the creditor which they had in equity '
a right to ex( ecSl, and whu h the Hate was able J
to give. He cited the example of the United
States in favour of this made of compromising I
with the creditors of the state. " You are (
told," he obferved/'that credit will he proltrat
ed." Put how can it fall, when yon will pre
sent to Europe a nation having no debt in com
parison with England, which is weighed down 0
tinder the weight of hers. He hoped the two t
parts of the fubjet wou'd not he put asunder. j,
Fabrf said, We must be just towards the ci- v
tizens of France as well as to the creditors of h
the state. To be just towaids the firft, the le- h
giflature must decree not more taxes than the h
natron can pay. Who will assert that it i* pos
sible to require more than 6ii millions of livres, h
which ate already decreed. Yet this must be tl
done if the creditors cannot be paid with the na- ft
tional domains, and tbe nation cannot pay more. 11
He went on to (hew, that the projefl proposed
was advantageous to the cred'tor and all they v '
could ejtpeil from the state.
The project of the decree was then adopted.
P »RIS, Sept. 14.
Central ojfict of tbe Commune of Paris. ««
The central office on the iu\ Frudidor (Bth "
Septv) transmitted to the commiflaries of police of
the commune of Paris an abfiraA of the law of the
19th, of Tvhich they recommended the execution. T'
13> virtue of thi* law H every person accused of
emigration, not definitively Hruck off thrlift, ev
cry returned emigrant, every priest cojsdc-ained to
transportation, who may have remained in the in
terior of this commune, in contraveution to the
law, and within 24 hours after, ihs.ll be arretted
and carried hdor»; the tribunals.
" Also every cccitfiaflic, wfro fliall cxercife a re
ligious profeffion publicly without firft having ta
ken the oath required, and fulfilled the other con
ditions of the law of the 7th Vendimaire of the 4th
year."
, . ~ fc
The Medical Lectures ai
In the University of Pcnnfylvania, are post- °
poned until the lait Monday in November C 1
next. r;
Oilober 14. aaw4w- ti
I PHIL ADELPII ij ,
"a THURSDAY EVEN.'s'O,
Note from o'.'r ccrrefpond;nt in Bofto
dat<-d 9th iuft. lavs,
" More news to-morrbw, an arrival ii
11 34 days from London."
Andrea.' Kirhpatricl, Esq. is appointei
_ third judge of the fuprerr.e court of the flat
ie of New-Juicy, vice John Chetwood, Efq
» resigned.
>fj C 0 N G R E S S.
S, _
* HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
d irMDNF.SDJY, NOFEMBHK 15.
r 1 his day the House formed atjuorufn.
,f The new members, viz Meflrs. Tilling
J haft, Parker and Edmond, took the confti
tutional oath.
■} A message was sent to the Senate, iuform
e 1 ing them, that the House of Reprefenta
e tives had formed a quorum, and were read)
to proteed to business. •
r Mr. Williams moved the usual resolution
' authorifiDg the clerk to cause the member:
- to be served with three newfpap.ers printer
f j in this city daily.
_ I Mr. Thatcher moved to strike out the
; I words 11 printed in this city," that members
r might be at liberty to take papers printed in
other parti of the United States, if they
chnfe to do so.
1 The motion was carried, by 31 members
1 voting for it.
; Mr. Williams next moved to appoint a
Committee of Elections ; but on Mr. New'i
1 observing that it would be better to postpone
the appointment of this Committee until the
; House was better attended; the motion was
1 withdrawn.
; On motion, a Gommittee of Revifal ahd
Unfinilhed Eufinefn, confiding of three
, members, was appointed. Adjqurned.
The Senate has not yet formed
Only one additional member attended this
day, viz. Mr. Goodhue, from MafTachu
fetts.
* ■
November 16.
The House met andadjouined till to-mor
row without doing any business.
A quorum of the Senate is not yet assem
bled.
LONDON PRICE CURRENT,
September 12.
AMERICAN ARTICLES.
/. 1. d. I. j. d.
Arties Pot, jiio to 1190
Pearl, 2 70
Pig Iron, 600
Pitch, 76 8 6
Rosin Black, 0100
Yellow, 010 o
Staves Pipe, 16 00
Hhd. 11 10 2
Barrel, 650
Tar, • 0190-^-106
Turpentine, O 15 o duty 023
Timber Oak, 5 y o to 7 5°
Plank, 750
Pine, 217 o
Wax, 950
STOCKS IN LONDON.
3 per cents Consuls on the 19th, 51*
Premiums of Insurance from London to
the United States, 10 Guineas.
RHODE ISLAND.
In the house of representatives a few days Gnce,
a motion for calling a convention to form a confli
tution fsr that (late, was negatived, by a large ma
jority. James Burrill, jun. efq. was chosen nttor
nty general, in the room of Jion. Ray Greene,
elected federal senator.
BIOGRAPHICAL ANE6T)O*TE.
In June, 1779, died in England, Mr*. Ross,ce
lebrated for her beauty rnd Constancy. Having
met with oppofiiion in her engagement with capt.
Charles Rofs, (he followed him with men's cloathes
to America : where, after such a refcarch and fa
tigue as scarce any of her sex could! have undergone, I
(he found him in ths woods lying for dead, with a
poiloned wound, after a fkirmifti with the Indians ;
when, having ftudied surgery in Eng
land, 4b e saved his life By fucking h-is wound, and
nursing him with scarce a coveritig, for a space of
fix weeks ; during which time (he remained unfuf
pefled by him, having died her face with lime and
bark : The captain recovering, they removed in
to Philadelphia ; when , as soon as she had found a
clergyman to join her to l.im forever, she appeared
as herfelf, tl»e priest accompanying iu-r.
They lived four years in a fondnefs that could
only be interrupted by her declining health, the fa
tigue (he had undergone, and the poison not pro
perly expelled, which she had imbibed from his
wound, undei mining her conflirution : the know
ledge he had of it, and piercing regret for having
been the occasion, affe&ing him (till more fehfibly,
he died with a broken heart at Jdhn's town.
Fhe lived to return, and implore forgivenefs of
her family, whom she bad dillfcffcd so long by
their ignorance of her delliny. She died, in con
sequence of her grief and attention, at the age of
twenty fix.
[ This is probably the Jlvry on ivhicb the inttrejling no
vcl of Emma Corbeti is foundelJ]
The following very poetic lines, by an old Eng
lish poet, appear to have made part of a description
of Winter.
•* So Boreas breathes from forth the Frozen Zone,
" That river* turn to Crystal Rocks like Stone,
44 The Bald-pate Woodsare Perriwigg'd with Wool
"That Nature from Congealed Clouds doth pull."
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno, a .
The following is an extract .from a work,
written by P. Ken*edy, Esq. entitled
an " Answer to Mr. Paine's letter to
General Washington, or Mad Tom cou
vifted of the blackell ingratitude." If
it has not already appeared in print in
America, you will probably thinft it wor
thy of a place in your paper. J. W.
" Amid the convulsions which have for
some years unhappily agitated the Europe
an world. Amid the horrors cf a revoluti
on, founded on animosities, hatred, massa
cres and blood, in which the human cha
racter has been exhibited in all its deformi
ty, no man has laboured more uncealingly
I | fc of f.• •:al order, nnd to
j f ,v -:rtunj religion, morali'y a:;d government, '
thin rhe enthnf«ft?p, ths'i.praved, the u:i- :
grateful Tom Paiae.
Having developed the inveterate malice, '
! the subtle cruel: y of his charader in a fe- !
1 r:es of wild difcufli )ns and dangerous thco- j
n ries, all tending 'o the overthrow of gene- !
( ral proiperity a;id individual happiness. in e- [
II , very country, he has now consummated h;s j
1 gui't, and given the m'ofl evident proofs of
I the foulnefs of his heart, by the
1 ; last little remnant of imputed patriotism, to
- ' a faithlefs and cowardly attack on his early
• j benefaftor and friend.
j We are not surprized, because we difco
| ver plainly the immediate cause: of the vio
-1 lent change that has dictated the declarati
ons of discontent, and threats of hostility,
, which continue to fill the colurrins of the
French journals, against the firm and pru
dent conduft of tlie American Congress,
- aided by their refpeftable President. It is
- the business of the designing, ill-intention
ed, ambitious leaders of faftion in France,
- under the cloak of liberty, to praftife all
- the arts of calumny, to mislead the people,
r and hurry them into the wildest me ifures.
That iom Paine should seize with avidity
, and with an aflivity, unfortunately in him
s combined with a mod malignant difpofiti-
I on, every channel of inveftive against the
British government, we cannot wonder at. 1
' But that he fliould add to the black cata
-1 , Jogue of his crimes, that of deep ingrati
-1 tude, by aiming to (lab the fame, to mur
der the charafter of the man that cherished
| his political infancy and brought him forward
: into public life, proves that the aflumed garb
J of modern philosophy isbut a fafer covering
for the dagger of the aflfaffin. An eftemy of
Great-Britain by principles of rebellion, by
habits of abuse, by circumilances of political
elev-»:on and private interelt, we have seen
~ him dire ft the whole force of his imposing
| talents the specious triek of smooth phrafe
| ol °gy. cant of popular prejudices to dis
colour, to traduce the eitablifhed forms of
government and to overthrow the conilitu- 1
tion ofthofc kingdoms : But in his last per
formance, he far out-does his usual out-do
ings—he out strips depravity ; and high
over-leaping over-leaps all bounds—faithful
to his avoWed principles of anarchy and com
motion, he boldly soars to the last and great
est of crimes, ingratitude, and arraigns the
illustrious Waftington for his persevering
and virtuous attachment to the order, the
prosperity of the American States.
In the phrenzy of gallic zeal, he forgets
that he fell a viiftim in his turn to the fury
of fadtion ; and that in despite of his labours
for a series of years in the cause of revolu- j
tionary government, he was consigned to a "
dtwigeon ; and eventually refeued from the I
guillotine, which carried off his fellow-adtors
on the great revolutionary theatre, after
strutting their hour on the bloody stage, on- &
ly by the generous interference of thofc ~
peaceful Americans, whom he now loads
with reproach and obliquy, beeaufe they
will not facrifice individual virtue, and ra
tional wisdom to the insolent dictation of
French partizans and domellic anarchists.
One would have thought that the situation ' W
of distress and fuffering, into which Paine -
was hurried, among the other revolutionary '
heroes of his day, and his narrow escape I
from the gripe of the guillotine, fliould ■ 1
have checked the racoethes fcrihendi, and gj
awed him from meddling further in politi- w
cal affairs. But it seems that confinement J(
tended only to sharpen the edge of calumny, G
and to point more keenly the fliafts of flan- 1,1
der against all that men are taught to refpe£t
in society—morality and religion. The I
moment of his deliverance from prison, was 1
like the opening of pandora's box, marked fc
by the issuing forth of a more pestilential, if]
vapour than what he had before sent into tc
the World. Religion, that great cement and
bond of public order- the gracious harbing
er of peace and happiness to mankind, be- ~
came the objedt of his scurrility and ridi-
cule. Maxims arrayed in all Ihe falfe co- \
lourings and tinsel glare of subtle atta&ion, fig
were propagated and diligently spread a- be
broad to catch the prejudices of the unthink- to
ing ajid ignorant, as well as to gratify the lh
coneys and vanity of the difiolute and
profaae.
- m
GAZETTE MARINE LtST. fit
Ncvi-Yorl, Nov. fs.
ARRIVED k'
Armed (hip Brothcr«, Cutmningi, Liverpool t0
Brig Ann, Jahnfon, Curra<oa
Elfex, Waddle, Falm 'Uth
Friends, Conklin, Surnnam
Sloop Sillers, Johnson, St. Damin^o
Yellerday arrived brig EfTcx, rapt. Waddle, 53 T"
days from Falmouth, and brings London papers to
the «9 N h September.
Capt. Waddle spoke the following vcffels :
Sept. 30, in long. Ig, 00,1 st. 47, 35, spoke the Bri
tifii packet tor Halifax and New York. Sept. 4, - A
j6, 00. lat. 45, 14, was boarded by the French Pl ;
privateer brig adventure, capt. Launfon, treated
politely. Nov 2,10ng. 63,47, at. 37, 50, was beard- j^ c
td by the British sloop ot war Spencer, capt. Mea-
dows. boand for Bermudas, out 4 days tromHalitax.
Yesterday arrived schooner Active, capt. Wilcox,
17 days from New-Orleans.—l/ifoims, that the fe- * 1
deral troops remain at the Natches—that every thing
remainsquier, and there appears to be no difaffettian. W
The claims of the American. are not given up, but Di
continue to wait for further orders from the Courts. Bri
'1 he brig Hope, capt. Dan, failed With the A&ive.
The schooner Samuel and Margaret, from Jamaica, j^ a
bound to this capured by a French piiva:eer, vn.
awd sent into New-Orie3nj(, is not condemned , tu
the privatteis nave obtained permirTionto 1 11 her by
giving good fccurity, and Ihe mon.*y 10 be depofilcd
until lomethiug further is deteinnned between the
French and the Uniied States.
t'Capt. Harper, of Philadelphia, in a prize schooner
from fct. Jaf o, was taken and lent inio New-Orleans, a
but liberated.
Thet)rig Flora, Bower.«, of this port, (which was wi
taken to N. Providence, and there cleared, has sale yo
arrived at N. Orleans. 0 f
Monday evening an ived brig Salicia, DorgaW tn
17 ilays f;om the Havannah—ia.'lcd in company
v Oiip Active, for Philadelphia. \V
Same day arrived ship Columbus, Cook, 83
days, from iJtbon.
o<fl. 19, lat. ;9, long. 64, spoke (hip Matil
da, from New-Yoik fV.r•Madeira.
Nov. 5, lat 40, g t long 6', c ? fpoke ship Fac- 1
tor, Kimp, from Ncw-Yci k for Lorition. Capt.
Kemp informed us he had been chafed, by a ]
I'rendi privateer for several fcouri. ' Ch
0 trprn ,bf log U :
, ' '*" rr ' *r .m .«'. TV ■ (bu'-ch. ' ,
- j, ?"?• lat - J*. •\1 so k* > frtvill
••rifTwjt.i a liej<i and re,: 1 ;.ttmri, from Ratter*
..jm boimd to New-Yi.ik— blowing hard, couid
' I not learn her name.
" i w° c - - ,O J laT - 68, ftidkViw
J Mc^r )'» l-ee» from Baltimore bound to Rot
- ter d;m, or, t 7 tin vs. a!! well
- ~£ T ° V - *' ht - .'«• 'on?- U fiwilte ii-g Sum- e
. Mil e««r, from *■', bound to Senegal, out
p •; dip, a!! we!!.
> <£r Hibernian Society.
A g of tin hilirmiaM Society j u) the rclitf
of £«iVr».v<, fruM heUnd, will !x* fulil at Mr.
<»v«ru; i'hivjoftrect, at 6. o'clock this
i vraisjj. Signed h) <.-r.icr
MAI'HEVV CAREY, Stc'rj.
WVSiTtbtr '6.
' DANCING SHOOL.;
M DOIKJALL prefems hi.
mott refj calful < ompiimcnts to his iVm
' er emplc-yers and th/- citizens In genera] snd re
-1 turns his mo't grateful thanks," for the very
■ bountiful eswouragemeut he has experienced for
, theie twenty-five year, pa st, takes this o p port „_
nity oi informing them", that fit's school will be
open d on Wednesday the 23d instant, at hi.
Elegant Ball Room,
inl South Fourth-Street, betwten Chefnut and
Walcut-ftreett." To bej-in at 10 in the morning
10. y« un ( , ladies, and 4in the evening for young
gentlemen.
i raiflifing Balls will commence on Tues
day, 6'h December, and b; continued every
Tuesday, dtiiing the season.
_N°v. i 7. 2awtf.
Rundle £•? Leech,
Have just received, and have lor Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut-fir cut,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
80. heft iioufo CO LS
Queens' WARE in cases, allotted
Bourd'iaux BRANDY of an cxcclitnt quality
130. CLAREI' in ca'eg, do.
TH ! Y AVK ~4 t,s,r>
For SALE or CHARTER,
''it ship
$1519' PEGGY,
Eurtiien 11 { tons, ir. excellent condition, und
may befent to sea with little expenceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
THE BRIG
WILLIAM,
Burthen lot tons>
novembtr 16. £
for Hamburgh.
The Brig MARY,
Peter York, matter,
•* L 3 r ' n ß a ' Roffel's wharf, near Kn e
S " Icrt > f» novv ready to take in 4
' VV/ Cargo, and will fail in ten days.
For Freight, or PalTage, apply to
gurney & smith.
j November 16. dtf
f WANTED to RENT,
A Coach House and Stable,
For four Horses, in the neighborhood of Fifth
and Arch (Ireets. Apply to Mr. Evans, at 119
Arch street. jt r 6.
EVENING SCHOOL.
S. Lewis
INFORMS the Public, that his Evening
| School will open on Monday next, for tLe
j winter season, at No." 201, Arch Street.
Not. 16.
NDTTCI
AI.L perfans comerned are hereby notified,
rhat the /"bferiber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft cn tifirates of
Stock in the Bank of the United ft-ites—He for
warded them under cover of a letter a-ldrefT. d to
John Anflcy.of London, by tile ftip Bacclim, c pt.
George", which this port in June la.l for Lon
don. But that JTiip having been cap-ured on her
paffagc and sent so France, the above ktter aod m
clofurc have failed ill their deftinatio):.
Three rertificates, +iz.
four shares, dated January i ft, 1797, and
iflued in the name 6? Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphianovember 8. 2aw6w
Notice to Creditors.
Joliah \\. Gibbs and William
Gibbs, did on the 9th day of June last, as
sign to the fubferibers, all their for the
benefit of their creditors, this is to give notice
to all the creditors of the above firm, tha' all
their books, as well as the flatement of their
concerns, are lodged with John D. BlanVhard,
Ivo. 6, South Third Stre«, so» :-iy.
and alio the.discharge which be signed by
all thole creditors who wifli to receive thj bene
fit of said alignment.
All persons indebted to the said firm, are here
by notified to pay their refpeiljve debts to the
said John D Hlanchard, who is fulty'authorized
to receive and fettle all their accounts.
JOHN D. BLA.NCHAR®.
JAMES VANUXEM.
A. BUTLEK.
Nov- 13. mwf;t.
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amflcrdam and Hamburg, and forfalc by
B. s3* J. BOHLEN,
A large affortmcnt of Jine French Cambrics,
Plat ill us Ruflia jud Dutch fail cloth
B' ittannias Writing, post, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Du'ch calf &in»
Checks and iiripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs , Shell'd Barley
Oznalnirgs Looking gl*fies
bite iheetings Hollow glass ware
Diaper States
Brown rolls' Coffee mills
iTmhrtllas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives
Black whitelaces Tovs aflb. tcd in boxes
Bell Holland Gin in .ipefc
London particulax Madeira Wine
J«'y 14- miuht/
FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
with a Wrggon and (!>ears. The Horses are all
young, strong, true to the dratfght, ayl capable
of haiilm£ as great a weight as mod in ihe coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Welt Town, Cheltercountv, 0:' o
T howas^Fi/her,
No. 142, S. SecoVid Street,|Pnila elphia.
IT mo. 2, ?yiT
i he Office of Secretary of Stale
OF THE UNITED ST A TES,
I? removed to No. 13, South Fifth street. near
Chefnut street. 3 t i O ..Clocks and Watches |
Of cverv dflcription, opening tor_6ale, Dy
EL* VI It AIM CLAltk, No . IS ,
M bis AV.-c- Sbo\ (Jc>%«;»/ pfAV
MARKET anil FRONT Sj REETS. 1 1 l<
ALSO tion, CO!
An extensive arid general aiTo-tment of ,pprove
Tools, Files, and Materials. ( dyemh,
CONSISTING OF % . 1
rioc'- Movements and Clock Dials, eight day begdew
&c.Scc. Spring and (landing-Clocks. «
Qd. 17- —~ in the t
For Sale, by the Package, Pradic
For ck or good notes at f.xty or ninety days,
Book and Jaconet Mufl'.ns plain "j
stripes, and Checks 1 Aflarted in t ion.
t'.o. do. I amhoureu ? packages. H. a
,; 0 . Ladies liandkcrclueis, & rivsl f
gentlemcß'o neck do. J Durnfc
faconet chiAtz muslin for home and the U eft ber( , s j
India market, Pull,cote and linen handkerchief
for do. do printed do.xio. common purple and June
above stoods entitled to drawback on ex- 11
portation. Also a few I'cotchcambncks and aa
alTortment of muslin by the piece. J s n
The whole of the ahove being a consignment w ; (
from the rnariufadurersip Britain- riah
To be seen «t "William Blackburn. phi , a(J
Office, No. 64, South Second Street. ■ tobe.
Nov. si. - "core
~ fOITSALE, work
By the sußsca.ntKS, No 2t, Penn-flreet, Jul;
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal, , Arid :
J Cmf.jlingof _ . I btl
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Ooffaes Punjum Cloths OR
g ana jj s ©uzz-y do. Cenfn
Hnmhums Charconna Dorea thein
Blue Cloth T.m.ta SON.
Chintz and Caliooes Mulmul. up in
Mamoodys Checks j 1
Maharagonges Pat.aHhkf,. such,
Ginghams Mulmul do. umve
Guzzenas Bandannoe. l.catt,
I'nrrah. Siflcrfoy parfo
Piniafcoc. Chopp'. Romal, »1
pTrUansof var iou. colour, j v,
SUGAR Tl
90,000 lb. PEPPER- _ j
Willings 5s 5 Francis.
The Piece Goods |
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed to sale st 1
that commodious (lore the north w.it corner of
Market and Fourth Orteti. I
L A~N DIN Be«
From on board thelhip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, fram London,
60 tons of the best clean Ruma
hemp _
• 60 calksoi bottled BROWN STOUT. A
For bale by the fubferibers, No. :I, Penn-ftreet. tJ i e ,
wMints ?fr rrancis. a«r
d whi
3 1 * ~i. .. -—— "*■ I be /j
lust arrived,
From Port-au-Pfsnce, aad for Me by «he
bers, No. PeDn-llreet> VcJjut
hogfhead*,") I and
81 tierces (prime Coffee •«*
513 barrels C 1 '
646 bags J . f»li
Willings Isf Francis. f,r
„ 0 4 lati
Od. i?. |
-~P tor sale, a
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS^
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes ....
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes ~
Lifben WINK, in pipes
CLO VESand "> c f t jje latelt importation, in boxes
N in Bales, suitable for Hatters. \
WjJlings y Francis, ■ h=
Penn-ftreet, No. at. 'J
__ , n-&stf tb
Nov- t. m
SILK.
ANY person having raw Silk of American or .
European produce, may hear of a pur
chaser who will give a liberal price for the fame.
Application to be made at the (lore ot Robert 4
Lewis, jun- No. 70. Strtct wharf ' any '
time before the 12th of Jamuarynext. j
eojt. L
Nov- to*
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Guftavus Adolphus.from
Marseilles, confilling of the following article., r
is dii'chnrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and far
fate nv tne funftrtbers 11
BRANDY, well flavored, of J. 3 &4'hproot \
Claret, in hog(head»
Ditto, in cases , ,
Frontigniac Wine, in cases of 30 bottlw J
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in balkets of 6
and ia bottles
Capers ,
Olives
Almonds
Dry Verdigreafe
Writing Paper .
Umbrellas (Silk) of 28, 30 and 31 '"ches
Long'and (hort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings n( . ,
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madratt
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
«ream Tartar. B£NJAMIN MO RGAN &
ROBERT ANDREVVS.
September 27.
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. tl, Second-street, corner of Gbefnut-flreit,
TTAS now ready for sale, a very larg»
Hi ment of En S l>Jb, French, Lat.n and Greet
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout tha United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Diaionary, the filth edition, in one
larss vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large II mo. price i dol 75 «ts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, I
fheathin" and »lottin„- Papers; printed Blanks
ui 1 Uonlts Wat Wafers, and other articles, ©f
K" SaVitT. used in counting house, or
P *SnM«of a mifeellaneous colleen of
BOOKS, with the price of t °^ w '
by inquiring a^ajove.
LAW BOOKS, Tno
Lateil London and Dublin editions.
H. Sf P. RICE, Booksellers, • -j-s X cei
No. iS, South Second, and Nq.jcf,Market street, . oox
HAVE iuft receive,l by the l ite arrivals Irom \\'!,ir e Gt
London and Dublin, thcii spring imports- rirkUnhi
tion, confining of a variety of the lat»ft and moit Ruffla Sai
approved law Books, v/liieVi addsdtothofe alrea- R aV cni<B
dy on hand, forms the mod cxtentive cpllei9ionev- Ba;x Line;
er offered for fa'e in th» country, Theythcirfore {j efiians
!>eg,Jp?.ve to notice, that Irom the nacnre of their ni.ipcr a;
conneaicniin Dublin, they are enabled to fell H-illi Em ,, ty
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very Caramon
lowest prices, The following arc among the latelt n a( j- ort
publications. . Fife Ger
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, i Ahoutty
Peake's Cases at NiG Prius ; Ridgeway's Reyorra Clover Si
in the time of Lord ITardwicke ; Kloyer's Proclm , f ~;a n Sf
Pra&icc in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton s window
Trt atife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's of 5
the Ci/tirt of King's Bench in Personal Anions, 4
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Crime LAN'
on Uses ; modern, Reports, II vols. London edi- P ,CT)i
tion ' 1"P
'H. and P. Rict 6«r efl t# receive by the firft ar- pa. 1
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete ol
Durnford and End's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of rrom 01
new publication!. io
June * 6 - 2
the History ot Pennsylvania,
by Robert .proud,
IS now in the press, and will be publithed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZfC!H A- Tune
RIAH Poulson, jun. No. So, Chclnut-ftrect,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will centir.ll*
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
. according to the printed propcfals, until the A t
work is ready for the fubferibers.
lulv 18 iaw,f ■
July lb. —__ t on i„
~ ' THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED, |IM k , r
\ And for f-.le by THOMAS DOBSON, at the throug
Stone House, No. 4?, foutb Second street, I crc £ e j
; EVENINGS at HOME ;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED. I Will
Confiding of a variety of Mifeellaneous Piecesifor I
theinftrudion and amufementof YOUNG PEE.- I
SONS— SixVolumcshandfomely printedand boaud I
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of thefc pieces are I
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally esteemed one of the mod valuable pub-
I licationsth.t ean be put into the hands of young I
parsons. . , , I ' '
1 " Delightful talk to rear the tender thought, 1
To teach the young idea hew tu (hoot, I pOT
rs Vo peur tie frefli inftruSion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening spirit.and to «x
I The eanereus purpose in the glowing bread.
6 Thomson. I QII
August ,4. mwf4W 9 '
I I Houi
THIS D AY IS PUBLISHED, lon'W
-t By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone tfoufo, I feet .
of No. 41, south Second I preft
Letters and Conversations, num
j Between several Young Ladies,on improving and in- I
,t tereding fubjefts. I 1
' Translated fro* the Dutch of Madame de Camion 1 Wit'
with alterations and improvement#, I \\Tat
ia Printed ohjne paper, and neatly bound, (tree
Price one dollar. I t y.f (
AMIDST the tide of modern RBinances.painflni; M, lr|
et " tales of wttraordiiiary diflrefs, or of desperate or I ,
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul, and ' r
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
- he ignorant of, this little book comes forward <o so.
I licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not t«- 1
ceeding the "bounds of real life, the proper, becaule )
ry elegant and nataral dignity and importance of the Fry* P">]
dmraSer is exhibited in an intending point of vi.w, tor I
and present. examples of real and attainable exeel- pnj
I The publisher was fomuch pier,fedtvith the pern- I
I fal,that b# was persuaded he (hould do a pleaung I
f«rvi:e to tha community by fending it i»> o circa- I
\ lation. Augud 24—»*4w
~ Acl laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper. the
A FEW copies of the above ad may be had ai j ' ,n
he Office of the Gazette of the United States, No. I
! | 119, Chefhut-dreet. J 1 j
The Partnership, aa
" IBS T TNDER the firm of FREEMAN Is" Company, I thi
=rs. i s dissolved by mutual consent. All persons jnu
. having any demands against tUe said House are de- n«
lited to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and ge
If those indebted to the House are desired to make pay- th'
ll mt . nt to him—By whom business will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. J9 ,South Ifront-Oreet. wl
nor m 7 to^w r'
pur- Richard and James Potter
ime. HAVE removed their Counting House to No. I
ERT 45, South Fifth-ftreet.
any,
,t LancaHer, Harrijlurgh Carlijle,
: Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
icles, npiHE public are requcded to take notice, that J 4
id for 1 the partnership which has far some »m« fub
fiiled hetweon Mathias Slough of Lancader, and I
proof William Geer, is now dissolved: but, not as M. I
Slough infinuatesto the public without jnft caufc ; I
as will more fully appear by a letter on the lub
i-ft from M. Slough to W. oeer, dated the 19th
s os 6 December last. a recitalof which is not now deem
ed ncceffary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumdantially informed of the merts of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perafal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is net perfedly jaftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the profecuticn of the
' Stage eonveyanc: from Philadelphia to Shippenf- j
, urg, or any other place. I
omen Now from the liberal and generous support the
public were pkafed to confer on the firft effort in
this business, V! illiam Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined I
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at- I
tcntion and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert. , |
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horse*, and every appurtenance to
render the peffage fafe and commodious, inform
N & those wnn wilh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their ieats nt
eotf George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelph.a, on every Monday
ary. and Friday, to proceed to Lancader, Harnfburg,
CarLiile and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftabli{hed. . . .
For the further accommodation ol the public,
t^ ect ' a Staec will dart every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, » Harrifburg, at Sun
'' , Gr 'f bur- in Northumberland county, every ThurMay,
J bon '" and return from thcuce and arrive at Hamfturg I
ademies Saturday, so that paffengcrs deft.ned for
Lancader or piuladelphia, may proceed oil Mon
, in one WILLIAM GEER.
Lancader, Jan. 17, 1797- „ ..
N. B. This Line of Stages darts from the
nrr a , ld house of WilUam Ferr«, in Lancader, on every
clToird« l uefday and Saturday morning at 6 o cln-K, pr -
Blank ' ceediug to the westward; and irom the house of
id s of «r. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wedmff-.
oufe or day morning, on the fame evening arnyes at Pa
°Ufe ' " trick Cochran's in Shi ?P er.(burg, and returns
■dlan of from thence on every Fhurfday : r error ™ r^_*
;be hid fame routine daily a, in its tour from PJibdeU
iw6w phia.
THOMAS Herman LEVITM*., j
North Fifth flreet. corner of Nortl* $-«ri No - 34. by 1
HAS TOR SALE, No. 5.?, th
« ux U ' me mc; - " A lal'g
JLj boxes, fix years old Watches.
\\'hite Gtavos Wine in calks Kites and
ri.-Ulf.noiu 11 ments, eig
Ruflia Sail Cloths anc l f» r n-o'
Ravens Duck Springs, I
Ba ? Llnc " Rotten St
Hcfiians Vices; Vu
Diaper and Table Cloth , * *
Empty hairs * ,
n nav ein>
Caramon German Clrlth )
afTortmentof black coloured Ribbon*
Fine German Laces 1 he I >
About twelve tons Kufiia clean Hemp [^|
Clover Seed r<HB t
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family ule | r
Window Glass <»«* *9—»»*. . A 'l
trv- Wi Anton, na
TENEKIFFE W.INh. J,, IVa ,
L '\NU!N T G at Wflimtf-ftreet wharf, TENE* wtor, I* J
>SIFFE WINE, of excellent Quality, in pipes and j e j „-Mfi
half pipes, for fete If JAKES YARD. f,. I driver,
oa. ib. %*>■ r
Will be Landed,
From on board the ship A&ive, Capt. Blair,from cn on f
Harphwgh, vans 'j , in,
ao bales white Ruflia clean Hemp miles, (fr
1 caiks Clover Seed Plains 7 1
For Sale by -pellet s y ai
Thomas Herman Leuffer, provided!
North Fifth street, No. 34. r,n i to * '
, «, Untie, vn
T"" g » 6 - : place,, ia
TO BE SOLD, ™tb fit,
And immediate pojfejjion given, 'iM'•< ri f
ACcnvetnient well ficiibed Brick T element, andffbu
with a cook house and other oat houses.situ- ibc
ated in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming- '
ton, in the State of Delaware- The lot of ground Wading
has k.rty feet front on Weft-flreet, and extends and
e through the square to Pallurc-ftreet, on which 11 aforefaid
I creSed a flable and carriage hor.fc. ' an equal
ALLEN M'LANE.
notor.ly I
Wilmington, Aug. 30. __ but
r I Imported in the jbip Pigou, nurr.hr
1 I And for ftleby John Morton, No. 116, South mill, in,
d Front-street,
, H»2» f tz
>• "y fon >TEAS mill mu
i>- Young Hyson ( hn.
ig I Imperial J gfore/ait
April iO. eotf 14 ST,
{For file or to be let on ground- f„^ r .
rent,
Asvaluable Lot of Ground ;
C ITU ATE on the north-east corner of Wal-
0 nut and Fifth flreet., fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fitiy-one fdet front 1 1
I onWalnc' ftrect, and one hundred and thixtten r-p H
» feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at X ;
present two small two story brick house., and » Phdat
number of small tenements thereon. day, a
Also, for Sale, ver «
Two three story Brick Houses
1m With convenient ftorei, wharf, &c. situate on a faf( ,
Water-street, between Mulberry and Safiatras Nor f,
flreets, containing in frost on Water street fit- A ,
I ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eall- evcry
lns ward ninety-five f«t, then widening to the Stage
louth thirteen feet fix inches. 1 hefe houses j m«b
ave the conveni«nce of apublic alley adjoinnig 1 Hill
Vo° on the north' fide, and are a very deferable fitui- rtves
{ ' tion for a merchant, flour faflor.or other, who day.
~r f. may have occasion for storage of poods. 1 his if
fv property will be fold on very reafonab e tor™ and!
»w, for cash. For further information apply to the bet^
ta: 1,1 1
Sr TO BE SOLD r*
rcu- 1 4ndpopjjio* given immediately, djfta
w I A LARGE two story brick House, handsomely j
I J\ situated in Princeton. Th«e ari four rooms
1 1B( 1 a lartre eiWry on each floor, and five rooms in 11
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 f««t in ,
dai I length, and apiaaeaof 57 > het ei»a P««JP
N» in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
a farther end of which are a carnage house and two
I ftmbles, one of which i. new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two (tables for a? horses. Ihe heal
3any, thinef. and plcafantnefs ot hs situation, and the J
rlons I number of genteel and agreeable (
e ,1c- near the town, render it a desirable retreeat f
and gentleman from the city. Ihe commcd.oufncfs of
! raT . the house, its central position, and the of
ire be I vheftable.,makeiteverywayfultablcforatav«r»,for
Ireet. which it has always been confiderd as a capit«l
ftaad. Inquire on rhe prctiufes, °/ So!
I ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. "■ aq-dtwaawtf ,
,N ° City of Waftiington. (
:f6t I '
ItJle, I SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City. 8
A magnificent dwelliflg-houfe 40,000d011ar., e;
e, that Igt caftl 30,000, ire 50,000 u
ie sub- J ditto li.ooo 8c cask 15,000 .0,000
t, and I j ditto 15,000 8c ca(h 15,000 30,000
as M. I 1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 ao,o<>o
cause ; 1 r ditto 5,000 81 caih 5,000 10,000
ie sub- I 1 ditto 5,000 8c cash 5,000 10,000
lC 1 9 th I , cash prize of ro.ooo
deom " x do. s,oooeach, are • 10,000
■. ss E
' "■« It t% ">•»<>;
can be I 00 . . 10,000 f
10t w . too do. 50 _ _ IO)DOO £
ig him- 400 do. S . ,0,000 t
of the '.°°° do. »o _ ,
appenf-I 15.000 do. «o
ort the I 16,739 Prize.- '
ifoft in I J3,»6i Rlanks.
:rmiue<i j 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar., 400,00"
are, at- I ,
he pub- N. B. Tofivourthofcwho may take a quan-
I t«ty ol Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
irovided j the last drawn ticket, and the t ' last
nance to j but oni :
, inform And approvednote., fecuwng payment in either
age the mon «y or priaes', in ten days alter draw.ng. will
feats at he received foi any number not lefsthan 30 tick-
Monday Ct This Lottery will afford an elegant fp eci ™en of
rrilburg, I c hcprivate buildings to be ercSed in t e y^
hitherto j Washington—Two beautiful defies «e_ alrea.i>
lele&cd for the entire fronts on two of the; publu
e public, squares; from Acfe drawings.Uspropofedtoere«
he house ,wocentreand , 'o<icor«r\>»ildings : as soon aspof
at Sun- fible after this lottity isfold, to convey them,
•hurfday, when complete, to the fortunate .r
arrifburg the manner described in the scheme for the Hotc
Lined for Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
oa Mon- be made to defray theneceflary expenses of pr m
inc &c. and the fnrplus will be made a part of
IER. the'fund intended for the National Umverlity, to
be ereaed within the City of Waflungton.
from the The real fecurit.esgvven for the
1 returns t-ia ;of James Welt - , .
jnir.g the Gilmar., Boston ;«f J o!in Hefl.ips, 11 .1
PJiUadel- ana of Richard V/sU , Cocpcr . -:ry.
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. j<, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets, o pen in the
A large quantity of Clocks and gjj-a
Watches. Alfi, a general assortment of Tools, £M
Eiles and Mate-ials, of Clock Move- j. eve . a , j Jta
ments, eight day ard thirty hour hrafs P'ntons fu lifs of
and f*rgc work; Bells, clock and watch Dia.s, ,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pumice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut ;\bonch, fland and tail t .
Vices; Turns, Plier-,Chn-n,Seals,Keys, &c. Bcc. '
Apprentices Wanted.
noveinber 3. ' Jacob Spe
The Philadelphia, Alfwn, and 7 vrhrton°^t,p e ec oi c 0
MAIL S1 A G F-. Adam Xa.
rHF. ircprkltn hr" leave to Ixfbr* the fobhe, that Joh;: Frit
they have eftMfiei a St.rf 4<ft.' 'PI tcletfttia, B,vj*,*in I
Atfimi, Bdtflt, Han fluSfeeJweli, aud MartUF'-r- • OA.
nice, Waiting River Jlitti.il; mill, ami theto-.vn ></ J xck
crtcn, Nrwjerfiy, f •»" « «»*' "'P™"
Jed 11M good bwfet, a cttoftr table carriage, ari a care- f jpe
fill driver, for the cvrnyam of tin ■ mail,p«rTr»gW, and
roods. The mill Jlart every The/Jay, at 1°
"o'e or*, A.M. from Mr. Daniel Cooper'- ferry, and v£]
lodge that night at Joel Bodi-c',. at La,<gacom,rg ■ a.d of I
cn on Friday, at 6 o'cf*ct, P. M. arrive at Lileb £-
van's, inheeper, in Tuchrton, difa-t from ihicjty 54 dcr6 £0 f „
miles, (from tic Atlantic 6, andjrom the Etf Gre:ji»g
Plains miles) mhcre ate good accommodation* j'.r trc
telle,s, and -where are commodious ar.Jfifepafjge ioats I •
provided to convey pajfengers to Capt. lVtlliam IVar-i -
rin,ton's hoof,, on Tucker's If and, adjoiuinmg the At- I
Untie, mherc are goed „cammuulums, and a convenient]
place to lathe ; the mho tuifies <o regale himjelj
mith Ming and fjhing, may at this place be h! S Hygra- y
Med. the, e being ct a'.mcf. every fcajon nf the year foml
ani fifk in abundance.—The Stage on its return, Jjarts 40
I from the afcrefaid C. Eva\s't in Tucterton, e-acry Tuf- 10c
.. day. at 6 o'clock, A. M. ire ibfaf, at John Bodwe ~at\ Impoi
J IVading River Bridge, ledge that night at Longacomwg, | t he sub
[, and at I o'clock, P. M. on IVednrfday, arrive at lie I st re et.
is afore/aid Cooper's Ferry. It is prefnmed that no route oj
an equal difance mill be less expcnfve, or fun jh the Ira
votlcr mith a greater variety of amujemcnt, as be 111.11
not only have a pleasant fail to the atlanhc from Tusker- I m p 0;
- ton, but have the curiofty of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one JUtting „
h mill, in complete orj, r, and at morh ; gentlemen, too, mho
are owners, cefaclors, of any of the ofirefaid iron muks,
are foiicited to encourage and support this f age (by mh ch Bonrd*
they can be so mellaccommoda ed) the continuance (fmmc.r [ rl |h n
mill much depend on their aid. The rates of pafengers | Jy{ e( loc
and baggage are as flloms • For afaffenger from the Sauter
oforefaid D.i iel Cooper's Ferry f Tuckerton, eluding
14 to. of baggage, Tmo Dollars ; for may prffengers
per mile, Four Cents— .50 Ib. of baggage equal to a pef
1- fencer. Pofage of letters, nemfpapcrs, Vc. mill be <^ eiT ,
agreeably to lain. I O ota 0 t a
N. B. Tic mail crojjls from the Old Ferry. A
THOMAS WARDLE M Co. Pimer
»'* Tuskerltn, Sept. 28. _ Oil. s.—2aw'/ I 4COO
m ""The "Norfolk MdfSTAGE.
:en r-j-mis Stage start. from the GEORGE Tavern, j To
at 1. at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in i >. jr
da Philadelphia, every Tuesday, Thursday, and ,
day;at 3 o'clock, in the rrorning ; arrives at Do- (
ver the'firft day, at Snowhill the second day. at fj( . H(
Northampton Court House the third day, andou Hund]
the morning of the fourth day the pailengcrs find 1, „
0.1 a f a f c » n d comfortable packet to convey then, to monv>
" 5 Norfolk. , . Ffefh
fjf " \ packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry, These
aft" every Tuefdiy, Thursday and Saturday, and the piteni
the St ' starts f rom this ferry for Philadelphia, every bout,
jfes j MouJay, Wednesday and Friday; puts up at Snow of th
i«g Hill thefirft night, at Dover the %& night,and ar- tor U
:11a- itves in Philadelphia in the eveo.ng of the third wiu^
"his I Thediftance on thi. route, between Philadelphia X,
rm. and Norfolk, is So mile, less than on any stage route
the between thof« places.
Too much cannot befaid in favor of the road, f \
which ismoft excellent indeed. The proprietors W
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any '
passenger, who, after having performed th.s route, \^ ie
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage tor the fame p
, I distance, so good a road in America. I in tt
me, 7 I August 11. dim.entf. |, r ,
Erlkine's View of the War. I
et in 1 I give
,um P JUST PUBLISHED, _c
'two By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. j
_,;, i No. 40 South Second ftrect,
St .
I A View of toe Causes and Confequcii- j
1 for 1 ces of the present War with Francs. *" u
,cfs of! By the Honorable Thomas Bkskine. j rn .
I.fs of May 15 —-1 th'
" P ti ~~JWJ¥e trials.
VT I Sold b W.Yoong, Bookfel'er, N». 5», South Sc- 1
N. cond-flreet, I
The Pennsylvania State Trials, j 1
i /~iONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acßuit- j
Vj al ofFraneisHopkinfen, Judge of the Court ol
•dmiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen- m
oral In one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3I co
I W. Yoomo ha. for sale, a general affortmcnt of Iv.
City. Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the peck- ca
lollar., ege, w ell aflorted, aud entitled to the drawback if hl
50,000 axoTtcd. f"'r «
*o,oo» For Saie, c
io,o°o That well known plate, called Vjmdemut's „•
10100 r\K Nefltaminy creek,M' mile..from Phil.- it
ro'ooo O ladelphia, on the New York poll road, ,1
C containing 74 acres and 94 perchee. Upon the o.
C premifei are a large two «ory stone eccu-
Too pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
ro cZ chen, a large frame flable with a gt> 6 d threihmg
[o'ooo floor! and some out build,ng.-alfo a well of
lo'ooo good water, and an excellent ice lloufe. On
10,000 g elegant situation fora gentle
"'Z mtnVfeat, commanding a view of the Nefliam
' inv to its jundlion wiih the Delawasc, and thence
across to the Jersey fltore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge. ,
For terms apply t0 S "^ r ' 1
MORDECAI LEWIS.
400,000 3 t.wtf. ,
_____ S av 44- 1
COLUMBIA HOUSE "7
LAST Boarding School for young Ladies.
rlf •; GROOMBRIDGE with much pleat
ineither ureand rt . fue a, refurns her sincere ac
'Jo'tkk! knowledge.nent for .the libera] encouragement
3 flic has received during four years relifen«<: «
ccimen of Philadelphia s and afVures her fn«,,s and Ox
ie City of public, so far from intending to decline h
e already fcliool, she has made a super.or arrangement for
the puhlk ;he more convenient acc o mrnoda.ionofhcr
=dtoerea scholars. -livery hp<ich of ufeful andpelite
jotiaspof- etlucation is particuiaily attenc ei their
vey them, Groombridge and masters excelling
iturtrs. ir re f ac aiveprofeflions.
:he Hotel Comer of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
cent, will lime cth, 1797- J-Biils
.of print- The filiation is perfeflly healthy ; and made j
a part of more agrfe aMeby • n exter.live garden and lot
ycrlity, to cf ?raund adjoining the houle.
• n£ ° f th n c ' Jit/l Pubiifhed,
'vduedtt And to be had of Messrs. DV £ fon CampMl R«,
, y Cary, and the ether pncipal Bookfcllers in U
l r city price one dollar, tw.nty.frre cents,» boards.
otcoWm- New Views of the Origin of the
;of Peter r jb cs a nd Nations oi America.
ichmond ; BENJAMIN SMITH EARTON,
mwf ]" nc 20 -
Philadelphia, 08. 13.
THE fubfcrihers inform their friends ar.d cul'.o
mers in town a»idfountry,that their floresarc row
open in the city, and others arc daily opening;, and
that from the prcfent appearance ©f the prevailing
disorder have rcafon to hope, their friends may
(hortly come to the city with peffeel f»f. ty. By
several latii arrivals, numbers have received frcfii
supplies of GOODS. #
Retert Smith O Co. P■ W. Gsllatidet Isf Co.
John Davis iff Co. Sitgreaves ti" French,
Neill S3" Smith, George Dob/on,
IViltbe'ger ami Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex Biljland and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
Jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and Co'
o<wen& yona.Janes, Thomas Orr t
Keppele y Zantzinger, William Barker & Co.
Adam Zanta-tiger, Thomas Annat iy Son.
Jok•; Fries, J ■ Miller, jun. and C»,
Bttjatnin ts*j. Join/on.
« OSi. 14 .
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory, (
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
Where be bis for Sale, (
A VERY extensive Hock, of every colour, and
Jl\. of the moil approved patterns, suitable for
i every part of a houfc, with great variety of bor-
dcrs to fait. m
—ALSO —
A handsome afTortmcnt oi the moll failiiona6lc
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very bed pain Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety ol Borders.
>Jove"-ber T. ' eo^. t
Young Hyson 1 ea.
40 chests of a superior quality —Also,
loodo.of liyfon,
Imported in the IYyodrop S:ms, and for sale by
the iubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
' I street. i
/1 / C. Height.
\l | november 6. co'.f I
-! Imported in the fliipM an cht.ster,
" Benjamin Shewell, Mailer,
f. From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the lubferiber,
No. ii Walnut Street.
ii Bcinrdeaux Brandy "1
ci I Iri(h market claret in cafca ( Entitled to
" ! Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
T ° I Thomas Murgatreya.
if' J wyo HAS FOR SALB.
be Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflts
ftota do. 8 * .'
I Pimento in bags
I 4000 bushels Liverpool fait*
I Aug. 24. tut&stf. —
m,J To be Sold at Public Vendue, ,
in (If not before disposed of at private sale)
" r ~ f\N Fridav, the firil of December next, Bt fix
°" W o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant. Cof
•at fee House, in Philadelphia, Fo.ty Thou (and Nint .
' Hundred arui Thirty Nine acres of
snd now or late in the County of Wjfhingion, and Cotrw
*'° monwealth of Pennsylvania, and on the waters 01
FresH and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
"r. These Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and were
the p»tenteed early in encept 3700 acres or l " erc ""
rcry bouts, which were patented in 1792- Ooe
now I of the purchase money to be paid at the time o. a e,
I ar- for iherefidue a credit of one; two and three months,
hird will be given, on interest and good security.
Oftober 6. 3»wjS__
P hia To be Sold at Public Vendue,
Wl (If not before disposed of at private sale)
-oad, fSn Friday, the firll day of December, at fii
ctors U o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
°™ House, in Philadelphia, Twoi.U Si* I >«ufand S«-
'"l van Hundied and Eighty acrts LAND. <Vc
c ' State of New-Yo.k, between the uorthern bounds
' of Penofylvania and the Sufquehanna, now, or late,
in the townfiiips of Hamd» and Warren, and cou*-
"• t. of Montgomery One lo.rth of the p.rchafe
r money is 10 be paid at the time of fa.e ; for 'hc'e
' adue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
I oiven, on interest and good security.
1 8 oaoac 6. 31T21
IPeale's Museum.
valuable repository of the worlts of >!a-
L turc, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underfUndmg, isopfried ua.ly, as
ufu.il. It Hands in an airy and healthy Ctuat.on,
r.nJ free from the epidemic that at prcfent affuas
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented
"rrSft .1.. 0.4,.. «
most rational a.,d pleating : a, a Science, .he «
"" " S ~ 1 sublime and inflrutlivc. It elevates the mind and
1 1 expands the heart. ■ h-y .„ T ~ rlf
lIS, J .. lyUm. Natural worh i-n charm, wth Goduimjclj
acquit- I « Hold coxverft." ,
ourt of I Many interjfling additions have lately
•rGen- raa , iu ,0 this Mm um : the feathered tribe
jards, 3 containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
fubjeifls, -s now very advantageously "ranged.
mcntof Waxen Figures,of Men large as life (some 1
e pack- casts from nature) are here dressed 111 V P' P
(Hack if habits, and placed in attitude, chataAcnAK
r nations. Mere may be facn the North-
American Savage,and the Savage of South-Ameri
c i—a laboring Chinese, and the
eißirr's msn —the sooty African, and 'he J^am'fc-hddale
with some Natives of the South Sea lflands. Ine
1 Phila- immense variety and interesting dive £7
1 road, this Mufenm offers to the view, may be Teen but
pon the oannotbe defenbed with full effca,
lc ect u- .$3" P"" °"'V of a dolUr ' IJW
one kit- 1 Seyt. 18. _———
Davis s Law Book Store,
fe. On No. 319, High-Strest.
1 gentle-1
GEORGE DAVIS,
J th ? CC T3V.ING buficd for fomc time past in prepara
irtvilege t - on for removi ng into his prolent houfc, ha.
rid ß c ' been under thcneceffityof poftponinguntil thisday
informing the gemlcnfien ofthe Bar generally thro
VIS * the United States, that his fpnng importation of
uw,fc law books is now arranged and ready tor fa.e, ou
termsthat he trusts will otitic him to thaliAe pre-
E freence he has experienced for iuveral years past.
tHiVc: Catalogues, oombining the most wied colic*
' aCUeS ; tion ever import.d i«o this country, are prmte.l
ch pleal- andvviU he delivered on application.
3C " Tune 17. " W
•agerocnt T
iden«ei* Boston Glass Manufactory.
i and the .
cl ' ne V' r-pHE citizens of the l>'.ited Sta'es ate hereby
' m °V ! I informcl, that the manufaaurc of Window
1 of hei Q ia j* s j s novv commenced at. the GiaCs House in Bci
nd polite
by Mrs. ' • ncel ii.. fs t0 fay any thing of the excellent
; in their of the Bcfton Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every r;fpca
Streets. L - roa tly superior ever importei from Europe,
' u W UI be cut to any size coramonly ufcd ; and
and made he constantly had by applying tu Charlks 1-.
en and lot iCupfer, at the Glal.' H iufc.
Orders from the difiant States to be a.?drc!Ted to
* Mr Samuel Gore, Court-ftteet, Bqfton.
Boston, Sept 30, 1 797 7
1 II p - 1 MelTrs. Timothy anl Ma/on, Chatlcfion ; Mffl'-
S ■ Hod't and Bcylan, IU&X, X. C. M,ffr,. Ir^lett
llers in U jsTvrfM ; Mr- Ellis Price,
s,uiboan.s. Yundt and Brow*, Baltimore;. Mr.
1 Of the ; Mi Aieffrs. HuJfi* & Goa/icw, Bert.
nerica. ford ; Mr. Stymtur, Savmr.cl, -.are nqutjled to ,«frrt
N - M D the above once a weds 6 «'eth. The aei<,w>ts to ho j*.
\ .L' ivetrdtd to th* £#hr.