of tije® an» Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Mimbus 1595.]
SALES RY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For n r r good s.
C For.enoon—Edward FoX, Nd.
JWar) ./°" th Front-street,
' ) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6j
C South Front-street. .
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Citv
AuiJion, No. 73 foutli Front-street.
f j Afternoon—William Shannon, -No.
C. 18J High-street.
U'el-tffilav J •\ , ' t " r a°on —Peter iienfon, No. 74
.' / south Third-flrcet.
Thurfdax \ Fox.
I Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday £ r arcnot "i —WillmiO ■Shinnon.
5 Afret-ndon—John Connelly.
Satiirdny Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
tor Freight or Charter,
Tar
s U IC E Y,
J. Isaac Vredenburg, Matter ;
ICOVV lyiiigf at Clifford's wharf, and in compleat
order to rcc;i»e a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the CaptAln #n board, or
yohn Slyrin,
tio. 81, Arch-tlrect.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
,2000 wt.of doublerefinedSaltpetre \
6';o «!. rf F F GunPowder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bulheli- of Timothy Seed
150 cafe--of Claret, firft quality
Ana a i] aantity of sherry Wine.
Sept. 29. dtf
HAVANNA SUGARS./
FOR SAIP.,
14CO twxes amd cafl<s prime white Hawn
na SUGARS,
On board the fljip Hamburgh Paijcet, Silas
S>v; itt, Master, now lying at Marcus Hooli.
Kcr terrjis apply to Capt. Swain, on hoard, to
Cap*. S'AMURJ. Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut'llreet, or to
Philip Nicl/in, £3* Co.
r Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
tor SALE or CHARTER.
She ia 3to tons register, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkibly faft, and ean be to re
ceive a cargo in a few dsys.
Sept. at. dsw
Antigua Run),
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board thp
Brig A.-live, William Williams, Mailer,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
J And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfivorlh & Co.
Wilmington, Sept.n. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
•mw&V'ilfo for Sale or Charter, and
mTti 1 '*'jwJP* - - nbw ready to receive a cargo
011 bojrJTat Wilmington. Apply as above.
."FOR SALE, "»
BRET AGNES in cases
German Checks in do.
Canibrick
Vlarfillas
Oznfilirigs
CJoid an*] Watches \
Window Giafs io by 8
Glass Tuinblersin cases
Linfeevl Oil in cafics, &c. scc.
George Pennock,
103, High-Street.
July 5. jaw
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be Ift and entered on immediaiely a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Ait;h ind '
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dinißg room—the largest is 31 feet by J
26 —-and two an so conneded by folding doors
as to make hi(t one. Also, five bed rooms, be- '
fides sin the l'irret, well finilhcd for fervanK. '
There are flables and a coach house, with evry '
convenience for a family. Erquireat No. 19, '
in North Seventh street, or at No. 118, Arch '
Street.
Aug. i;. uvjw.
Chocolate and Mustard
Maiiufaclured as uflul,
Ginger ai<<l 1-epper ground
SMled or Pearl Bariey
Bliiisdelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Buiton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
nr by the pipe, quarter-cafic or gallon—fuitalle t
for exportation or home confumptiou— t
For Sale by
John Haworth. 1
. Nr. qg fonth Front street,"
To be Let, at a moderate Rent, \
THE principal part of a HOUSE, within a I
tfl.on diOarn eps the Coffee-honfe, which has
bi en occupied for the last four months, confiQing
of a gocd dining room and parlour, two bed rooms j
aDd a dreffmg rootfi, two garrets, hitchen, wood
•vault and cellar, all ip. excellent order, fit for the
immediate reception of a small family. Nona need
apply but thole who are refpeitable and regular
Jinquir.- at the olfice of this Gazette.
O&ober 9. dtf
THE SUBSCRIBERS, ,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that thev have disposed
of the p«operty afiigned to them for the securing b
the payment of the notes, acceptances, arid en- •
dorfemerts given by lidward Fo.x, for the use «
of (he Paid James Greenleaf; and of
such rioteJ, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fottle c
with them for the amount of Jheir refpecSive I
claims, both principal and interest, at «
any time before the icth day of Oiflobet next;
after winch (lav, the bolder- not applying, will
he excluded, agrceakly tb the terms of align
ment-
Applications to be made at fuiith-eaft corner '
of Dc.ck and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
clock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt, £
Tho. W. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John Afhley, 3
Jacob Baker. el
'Phil*de!pbiaj Angoft 18, 1797. d
PHIL A D ELPHIA: T HURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 19,1797
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
Vlf not before disposed of at private sale J ,
Friday, the firft of December next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cos
, fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
' Hundred and Thirty Nino acres of LAND,
now or late io the County of arid Cow
-5 mon wealth of Pe/rnfylvanin, epd «n the waters qf
FreiTi and Wneelwg Creeks ai»d Ten Mile RunJ~-
y Thcfe Lands are fertile and well nmbcrrd, and were
t. patenteed early in 17 except 37 00 aciea or theiea
bouts, which were patented in 1792. One fourth
of the purchase money to be pa.it the time of sale,
for the#cfidue a credit pfone, two and thjrce months,
wiil He given, on in'.creft and good security.
Odtober 6. 3 wIS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Fiiday, the firlt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Sin Thousand Se
vsn Hunlied ?r.d Eii;hty acres of LAND, in the
State ot New-Yoik, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the now, Or late,
in the townlhips of Hamden Sod Warren, and coun
;ty of Montgomery One fourth of the purckafe
money is to be paid at the time of sale ; for the te
fidue a cvdit of one, two, and three month* will be
given, oh intcrelt and good lecurity.
O&otte 6. 3»wtS
WINDOW Glass,
, ' Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other jn
the City—
OF VARIOUS sizes,
From 8 bv 6 to 19 by 14,
By the finale Box or Quami.y, may be had /at the
, store of the Subferiberi, corner of Arcb and Front
ftreet.
James C. & Samuel W. Fi/ber.
Philadelphia. Janeq, 4|wmw(if
Wi!l be Landed,
From on board the fliip Adlive, Capt. BtAit,from
Hamburgh,
20 bales white Ruflia clean Hcfnp
1 caflcs Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ft-rcet, No, 34.
Tune 26. $
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chells of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do.of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
Tune it. eotf
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of j feet Cedar
Shingles »t« Superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars par thousand.
William HallowelL
No. 193 North Thira-Jlrett.
July *7. eoiit
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( rvw
Yoiing Hyson C
Imperial J
April ao. eotf
Imported in the latefl: arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, iand forfale by
B. & J. BOH lbn,
A large affortmcnt of fine French Cambrics,
Pint iilas l< ulTiaiiidDatch fail cloth 1
B'ittannias Writing, pod, and print- 1
Kottanes ing paper 1
Brown Holland I)u;ch ealf lkinj 1
Checks and stripes Prime madder
Ticklenburga Shell 5 d Barley
Oznaburgs Looking glafles '
White sheetings Hollow glass ware '
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee milln,
Umbrellas Brals kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives
Black and whitelares Toys assorted in boxt» ,
Best Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine ,
July 14. ' m&thtf t
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases c
Just received, and for Sale by r
Rurnlle iff Leech. i
An<7. if. 2awtf
MRS. G RAT TAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in gentfcil,
that her house, No. 192, Market-street, will con
tinue open during the fiekncfs.
Board and Lodging in a separate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
•For the convenience of those gentlemen who
have not thsir amilies in town, Mrs. Grattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a day. Augujl t9. —6t
just published,
And to be fold it the Bcokftores of H. & P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street i J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
Bonier of Chqfnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveyings
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED, j
1. Decimal fractions, in a plain, coocife,
aiid eal'y manner.
2. The extra<slion of the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, rectangular and ob
lique. ' v
4. An exai2 method to cast up the contents d
•f lands. t
j. Field surveying. C
The whole being performed without the lift ii
of scale and compifles, on a of logarithms, o
In which is given some accoußt of the variation o
of the needle, and the causes of its attrition, d
By SAMUEL MOORE.
A uplift 1. isviw
Lately Published, t,
In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold e
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and "
Chefnut streets, "
A Colledlion of Papers on the fubjeft of c !
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United t j
States for a few years past. ci
Compiled by NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Po&ors Seaman, Smith,
Bud, Taylor, Ramsay, Monlon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on cont.ig-oa, &c. &c.
Sept. 15. Jt Q
fe *•
Jty JoHN Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut'Street.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.'
N r niaa Stage itarts tinm the GEORGE Tavern,
ix t s'. she corner "I *'.'cnad and Arch Streets in
f. 1 Piiiladefphia, <v- ty 'Tuf-tay, Tburftay, and Ssl.tr
ic <l"y, an j o'clock, i 1 the rr ort:ii t; ; arrives uti>o
), >cr tI.J fi-l'tidav, at SubwbiM tile second day, at
•- Non-h»i«pton Cop« House the third 'day, and on
if the nnrmng ot the fourth day find
- a fate ami comfortable packet to convey thanito
e NotfrlU.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuetd y, ThurfSay and satutday, and the
• Stage ltarti from this ferry fur Philadelphia, *very
' Mon.'ay, Wcdnefday and Fiiday ; iiutsup at Snow
Ifill thefuft night, atDovir the night, and ar
~ 1 :ves in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day. ''
The distance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is to miles Id's thau on any ftaf e route
between those places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
. which is most excellent inde»d. The proprietors
s willingly enjage to return tly: whole fare to any
i pafienger, who, after having performed this route,
. . will fay that he ever travelled in aftagefor thefame
; distance, lo good a road in America.
Attgyft.i'*. dim, eotf.
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds.and
! 6c cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
Jo'r "■ , §
C U ST O M - H O US k,
Philadelphia, Sept. 4»d, 1797.
7 HE Mp-chjuts who at this time prefer hav
ing their vefiels and Merchandize entered and
cleared »t Chefttr or Marcus Hook, —are here
by notified, That in compliance with their <ie
firc, and upon a foil convielion that the measure
will be mutually beneficial to them ind to the
United States. The colleflot of the culloms has
made arrangements to eftablilh for some time
branches of the cufiom-houfe at those places,
where every accommodation in his power will
be given to the merchants. diw
TO BE SOL{>;
And immediate ppffejfion givth,
A Convenient well finilhcd Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houfc»,fitu
atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware"—The lot of ground
has forty feet front pn West-street, and extends
through the square to Pafture-ftrect, on which is
erected a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
City CommtJJiomrs Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN purfuanca of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common Councils, passed the lid day of May last.
Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
Commissioners for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on ieafes for om*
year to commence the firft diy of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Safiafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Street#, Draw Bridge, with
th« Scale and Filh Houfts, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-HalL
The Tavern at the /niddlc ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as stall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
neceflary for the toll-gates.)
Aug. 3 3tEwltn.
* LOS T,
ON the PafTjunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brali
hairel and silver fight ; 011 the plate of the butt are
the letters " Jamaica, Q_ 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock '• London" and tfye ToW«r stamp. 1
Whoever will return the aid piece to Join l\-r,mrJ, '
althefign of the Blue Ball on the I'alTyunk Road,
or tile office of this Gazette, Qiall receive a lewarj
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 12. *3t 1
DUTY ON i
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a<ft of Congress of the
United States of America, passed at Phila- J
delphia, - j
ti«s 011 Carriages, for the conveyance of persons, .
which fliali be kept by or for any person, for his '
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the '
conveyance of paffer.gers, the several dutie# and
rates following, to wit:
For and upon every Coach, IS dols.
upon every Cfariot, 11 dols.
upon every Poll Chariot, 14 dqls.
upon every Post Chaise, 11 dols.
upon every Phaeton,with or without top,
9 dolt. j
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannel work
above, with blinds, glaffos o: curtains,
9 dels. i
upon f®ur wheeled Carriages, having fra- ,
med posts and topi with steel springs, 6 ,
dols. r
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
iron springs or jacks, 3 doll.
upon Currklcs with tops, 3 dojs,
upon Chaifeswith tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dois.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols. -
upon two wheel carriages, with steel.or '
iron springs, 3 dol«.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols. '
upon every four wheeled carriage, having 17
framed posts and tops, and resting up
on wooden fpart, 2 dols.
The Colleitors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Dii'trift of Pennsylvania, will attend '
daily, until the 3cth day of September next, for
the putpofe of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown ;at the house of Daniel St. Clair, CnQ. J
in the County of Montgomery; and at thehouie
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks;
of which allperfonspoffeflcd of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, thatlicences will '
ed to them j one licence for carrying on the bufi- ,
ness 6f retailing of Winet, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li- "
cence for carrying 011 the business of retailing Spi- *
rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised to grant fttch licences. L
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe&or of the Revenue of the firft fui*
vey of tWe Diftridl of Pennsylvania.
Office of Infpedtion at ") , p
Germantow, izth Sept. 17,97. J 1
Philadelphia, 03. 13.
rrif? fubferibers iiiform t'.eir and cufto
[ri nurA ' n toWii Hi»'d country.thaft their (loresarc now
_ opi'u in rh.- city, and others ure Oai.'y and
>- t ,^ at om '^ c prtffent appearance ©f the prevailing:
« 1 il«> I.. cr have reason to hope, their iriends may
n Portly come to the city with perfcel faf tv. By
tcvcral lat-r arrivais, number? have received frefli
0 fupplievof' GOODS.
Robert Smith & Co. P IV, Gallaiulet Co.
s i p.iz h Co. Sitgrerrvcs & Freveo,
c Neil! Id Smith') George Dobfon t
y li iltberger and Smith, Thomas Ryerrjoti,
v Alex Bit/land and Co. T. R. Harden^erg-*
Jacob spe r ry and Co. Johh Smith \and Co'
d Owen&Vona. j'ones, Thomas Orr,
Keppcle C 7 7, ant finger* I Villi am Barker If)" Co.
a J?dam Zat?fz'nger 9 Thomas Armat Son.
c fobn Fries, . y. Miller, jun. and Co.
oa.T/i- •
s ' Boston Glass Manufactory.
Y "lIE citizens of the United State*, are hereby
J informed,, ihat the manufa«Slure of window
e Glass is now commenced at the Glass House in Bof
tor..
It is needlcfs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of theßoftpn Glass, asit is so well known
throughout tlie Unitttd States to be in every rcfpeA
1 greatly superior any ever imported from Europe.
It will be £ut to any size commonly used ; and
> may be confrautly had by applying to Charles F,
Kupfkr, at the Glass House.
Orders from the diftam States to be arretted to I
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-ftr eet, Bofcoii.
Boston, Sept 30, 179; O 4 2aw<w
Mcflrs. Timothy and fAafttn, Charlejion ; Mrffrs.
Hodge and Boy fan, Halifax, N. C. Mejfrs. IfUlett
and CCor+wr, Norfolk ; Air. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
[ Mejfrs. Tundt and Bronvn, Baltimore ; Mr.
New-1 ork ; end Jltftjfrs. ffi/dfhn Good-win, Tlart
fordi Mr. Szymcvr, Savannah ; ate reqmf.ed to infut
the fIW o';ce-it rveek 6 'rceeks. The accounts to it for
warded td the Editor.
Mr. LA it SON,
WITH an intention to render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who duriug his absence Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it
would be wrong in him not to iaform those that
are engaged, that it it withou his approbation, and
that he v.-iil not be in any way answerable for Mr.
Jaymond's engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. 15, 1797. 6t.
At a Meeting of the feoard of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Present John Hall, Sec'ry.
Francis. Johnfton, R. G. >oflandoffice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G. J
Nicholas Bettinger, ")
Versus >
Samuel Cunningham, j
In this cafe the proof of service qf notice be
ing infufficient. It isordered that notice be giv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers weekly, for at least eight w*eks to the
heirs or aflignees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atttend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, to ftiew cause why a patent
ftould not iflpe to Nicholas Bettinger for the
had in question.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. 15. *iawßw.
From Marfeilies.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedish barc,ue Guftavus Adolphus, from
Marfedles,cotififtmgof the following articles,
is rlifchnrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fubferiber^
BRANDY, well flavored, of i, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hog(heads
Ditto, in cafpi
Froritigr.nc VV'ine, in cases of 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baikets of 61
and 11 bottles
Capers
Olives
.Vimonds
Dry Verdigreafe
Writing Paper _
Umbrellas (Silk) of aB, 30 and 31 hiches
Taffeties
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation cf Madras*
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carvti —for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mills.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority cori/ijls in being free from 1
holes and homy-combed places, ivhicb art com- ,
monlv found in rollers cajl in fund, or clay ,
mouUs. Theft patent rollers are cajl in iron i
moulds, previovfly heated, and <will be found to ;
bemoreder.fi, solid and durable than any rollers :
heretofore used. Another important advantage (
they have over others, is, that the necks require '•
no turning, but are immedaitely fit; for use, and '
from their accuracy, run with less friSion, and '
require rtfs water to make them perform their '
<u.ork. lUy may be had hy application to the '
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good- '
ivin, or of ,Mejfrs. Thatcher and Hay-ward
Bofion, Aug. 31. Sept. 19. 4(\t
This Day is Publiftied,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the '
other Bookfellcrs,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents.
Elegant y printed on IVove paper, and Hot- '
pxejed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF ']
The Constitutions
Of the fevcK*' States with each other, and with ,
that of the Unii.'d States: exhibiting in Tables, ,
the prominent featn. es °f eaeh Constitution, and )
dulling together their R.' o ft impertant provisions, ,
under the several heads w. f administration ; with ,
Notes and Observations. .
By WILLIAM £MI TH,
Of South-Caroline!, 1
L L. D. and member of the Congs?»,"- '
United States,
Dadic.xted to tho People of the United Stat".
N. B, A few Copies printed on a:i interior pa
per, at 3-4thsyf a dollar.
February 6 mwf
ihomas Herman Leuffer,
North fifth ilrcct, corner of North alley, No*-34,
J HAS FOR. SALE,
r Kd B6urri«sux Wine in cases and
] boxes, fix years old
r White Gravo-s Vl'ice in caflsa
! ' !
L Russia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Batr Linen
Heflhns ,
Diiper and Table Clotk
Empty |p aes/
German Cloth
• A n aflortmentof black coloured Ribbons*
Fine German I.aces
About twelve tons Russia clean Hemp v
Clover Seed w
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family u/a 1
Window Glass <?■; £ a v
i DAY WAS PUBLLb W:Li, "" ~
And for Ole by 7HOM.4S DOBSQN, ; t Ac
Stone House, Nci. 41, south Second rtrect,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR,THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPEN El*.
Confining ct a variety oif Mifoellaneous pieces for
the inftru&ion and awufement of YOUNG PER
SONS—- SixVotyimesfcandfomely prfntedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
I«ie variety and excellence of thefs pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally esteemed one of the mod valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the han<*9 of young
persons.
M Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teack the young idea how tu shoot, \
To pour tks frefh initrudion o'er the mind,
To breathe th* enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpofc in the glowing breast."
THOMSON.
August 24. mwf4w
THIS D J . Y IS PUBLISHED,
Ey THOMAS DOBS ON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters, and Conversations,
Between several Toung Lodiet, on improving and I*ll
- fubje&s.
Translated from tlie Dutch of Madnte de Camion
with alterations arid improvements,
Printed onfru paper t and neatly Uund,
y Price one dollar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Remances, pitnflng
tales as extraordinary diflrefs, or of d operate «r
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book camas forward to so
licit notice, whera. in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper,
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Fermtit
charafter is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and preients examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publifcer was fomoch pleafedwith the peru
falj that he was persuaded he should do a pleating
service to the community by fending it into circu
lation. August 24' —mw4W
To Majlers and Pilot 1 bringing up VcJJels
from Foreign Ports to this City.
XT7Hereesfundry infringements have lately been
V V made on the laws of this state fat the pr®«
venting pestilential or infectious diXeafes. tit
from ignorance or inattintion thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to ptjb'.ifb the following ex
trails from the laws of 2jd April, 1794, 7th and
Bth fe&ions.
' . t
HEALTH-OFFICE.
Junetfth, 1794.
Ext raft of an aSfor feenring the eitj and pott
cf Philadelphia from the introduSion of pesti
lential and contagious difcafes.
Sect. 7. And be it further enabled, that every
mailer or captain of any £bip or veflel coming from
fca (vcffels actually employed in the coalhng trade
exceptfed) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdt&ion of Pennfylvania.fhail cause bfsdiip
or vaflel to be brought toanehor,or otherwise flay
ed in the flream of the river Delaware, oppofits to
the Health-Office 00 Stata-Jlland aforefaid, and
there to remain until he shall have d,uly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Rtfidetat Phy
sician. And it, previeufly ta obtaining fueh certi
ficate or bill of health, any mailer or captain shall
fuller his Ihip or veflel to approach nearer than the
laid Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(ball land, cause orfuffer to be landed, or brought
on Ciore, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any perfonor persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
o: certificate, he (hall aeglccft or refufe to deliver
the fame to the Health-Officer, such mailer at ob
tain Ihajl forfeit a«ia py, for each and every such
offence, thffumof five hundred dollars.
And die captain or mailer of every Ihip or vcf.
fel shall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and shall in like manner
convey him back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; -And while he
is making such examination,/or in cafe any fubfe
quetit examination by the Heal h Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the directions of
thi< ail, the mailer or captain Ihall expose or caulu
to beexpofcd to thefearth of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Confultmg Physi
cian (as the cafe may I e) each and every part of th«
Ihip or vWel, and shall present to .hi. view each
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and Ihall also true and fatisfaAory anlwers make
to all such <;ue!lions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination Ihall alk relative to th*
health of any pert or place fr*m which the ship or
veflel failad, or has since touched at—-the number
'of persons on board when the Ihip or vefltl entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
lince been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpe<ftivcly—what psrfoas on hoard—.
f they have been during the or IW.II, at
the time of examination, be iafe&ed with any pes
tilential or contagious dileafe—artd what is the pre
sent state and condition of. the' persons on board
with rcfpcS to their liealtli or dil'eafes. And if
any miller or captain snail refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid.
n if he Ihall contend airy Ji< i ptrJoH, or in a'/y '"'vr maxr
{er deceive the proper officers aforefaid in h s
ucli captain or mailer,for every such offence, Ihall ..
fArfeit SKid pay th« sum of si ve ewnbreb dol
lars.
SEax.B. And if asy tierfon or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Hiylician, &c. excepted) Ihall
go on board any veflel, before the mailer thereof
■has received a certificate of health in the manner
dire Sled, every person so offending, ihall pay the
Um Of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
IT being ibfolute'y neceflary that ths foragoing
feiflions Ciould be puniftually complied with, flv
fublcriber, in compliance v/iih hi •ii/ty, nrnft ex
ail s.rigoroas ob&rvance of the lame, or eWe l>t
andec vha ncceffity 11 putting the laws in force.
WHi AI.LHN, Hcalih Officer of th
r.ricf HmUpii*.
jix'r '4- **•«
\V.OI,U2Af XILJvJl Pnllifbcd, and n'jiv 'Selling, j
By BENJAMIN DAVIF.S,
A* ftis No £B, HVn-Sfreet,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY T
A NNVALRECIS TRJfjjrrfc UNITED STATES ~
FOR THE YEAR 1 7CB
Copfaining CQisplete and correal lift* of Execu- ft a]
Vive, 1 ceif.ativc and Judiciary wo
. DEBARMENTS of GOVERNMENT, m
And a v. #sty of nfeful tables, crtefory to be
Irnown in every State of the Union. g r<
Embcil'f/htd with two handfime tfjpraMrgi.
One of Which is dcpi&ive cf a melancholy scene
thit occurred during the American war.
. - . up
Wanted, to Hire, M
A Lorge and convenient HOU.Sft, in or near
/A. the centre of tliCfity—for which a generous
rent will be given; td be talceft'for a year, or on
leaf.: |ftr a longer term. Inquire of tha Printer.
oA T7. ; _ -' otf .
Walter & Kennedy, J
/ No. 73, South Front Street, so
HAVE TOR SALE, th
100 iHogfheads of prime Georgia Tobacco, ca
ALSO, ' to
50 Fbpes of Brandy, o\
10 Pil*!« ol> old Port Wine- s ri
Oil. r-. _ ]•
TENERIFFE WINE. ' £
LANDING at Walnut-ftrefct wharf, TENE- £ e
PIFFF. WINE, of excellent quality,' in pipes and „
half pipe*, for sale by JAMES 1 ART).
©iSt. it>. e °^ t 1
Choice StT Croix Sugar and Rum £
Crfee ' : u
Madeira and Ten'-riffe Wine J
For Sale by le
James Tard, cd
No. —.South Fourth-street. w
oa. f>. d,w ui
imported «
lutlnfliip America, Jame» Ewing, mafUr, from ti
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands in
White Platilla» ' p,
Ticklenbirgs r;
Coarfc Linens
Tapci '
Lenkihg Olalfes "> j,, w
Ghfs "Tumblers J nc
fou'lAit >f n
George iPennock. t ]
Aufu/l 14' , (J
The Medical Lectures f<
In the Univerlity of Pennsylvania, are post- si
poned until the last Monday in November p
next. ii
October r 4 ._ «
- The Health-Office"
13 removed to rhe City-Hall, and is kept open c
uicht and day, where persons having business may
apply. W«. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
' Srpt 4. dff .
- J —N Or rTTET ;
THE Office* of the Department of Wararefnr
the pr. fcnt removed neir to the Falls of the Scuyl
tltl, m the Road. I
/Soptenvber 4. ___
NOT I C E.
ALL persons indebted to the e'ftate of Jo kn *
STUiKtR, late of Tinnecum Township, t
Buck's County, are reqnefted to pay off their c
refpefltve debts ; and those having any de- i
mands againflfaid eft*te, are defned to bring in ,
t%ir accounts, to 1
~ JOSEPH CIIAMBERLAM, Execu-
MALLET PRBPALT, S torß -
Sept.
"The Philadelphia, At/ton, and 7 ueltrior
MAIL STAGE. '
THE' proprietors big leave to inform the pMic, that
they have eflablified a Stage hetve,* PlilM'ph,*.
At/ion, Bat/b, Hampton. Speedwell, and Martha Fur
aace, IVaditg River fitting mill, and the tow of Tuck
trtot,, in Nenv-Jcrfey, logo one. a week, and areprav,-
ded vith good borfes, a comfcrtaHe carriage, and a care
ful driver, fir the ymeyanee of the mail,pajjengeri, and
rrooh The Stage will Jlart every Thursday, at 10
,\l„k, A. M. fa™ Mr. Daniel Cooper', Ferry, and
. lodge tint night at Joe! Bodine',, at Longacommg ; and
o, on Friday, at 6'-'clock, f. M. arr.ve at Click E
van,\ inkeeptr, in Tucson, d.Jlant from tb.c.ty <4
miles'(from the Atlantic 6, and from the EaJI Gro»f.hg
Plains 7 miles) where arf good accommodation, for tra
meltn,, and where are commodious and[afe pajuge boats
provided to convey pa/fingers to Capt. Wsllsam War
rinrton'i louje, on Tucker's If and, adjom.mng th, At-
Untie, where are good acceptation,, and a conv'n„«
pl.ce t, lathe : the sportsman who wijbes to regale hmfelf
with fowling and fifing, may at this place be hso bly gra
tified there bring at almoji every ftafm of the year fowl
and fiJB in abundance.—The Stage on sts return, JUrts
from the aforefaid C Evans's in Tuckerton, every Tues
day at 6 o'clock, A. M. breikfnjls at John Bod.ne s, at
Wadir« River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacommg,
end at\ o'clock, P. M. on Wednefdesy, arrive at the
eiforcfaid Coopers Ferry. If is prcfcmU that no route ./
an equal diflancc will be less expcnf.ve, or f urn,fi tfio trm
wlltt with a greater variety of amufiment, ache will
■rwt only have a pieafant fail to atlantc from Tucker
ton, but have the curiojsty of feting on tie ropd t ither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one fitting
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or faCtors, of any of th-aforefaid ironworks,
are Micitcd to encourage and fipport this ft age fbywhch
they can be so well accommoda'eJ) the continuance of which
will much depend on their aid. The rates of pajfeng.r,
' and baggage are a, follows , For apaffenger from be
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tuckerton, including
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollar, ; for way paifenger,
ter mile, Four Cent,—ls° ">• °f l*gg°g'
fenger. Poflagc of letternewjfapcr,, ESc. will be
agreeably to law. ■
JV. B. Tic mail croffeafrom tie Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARDLE & Co.
Tuelerton. Sept. oa.y-I.awtf
Peale's Museum.
This valuable repository of the works of Na
ture so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the undemanding, is opened daily, as
nfual. At ftandsin an airy and healthy fitnation,
end free from the .epidemic that at preient affiles
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the study of Nature is the
mod rational and pleasing : as a Science, the mo
sublime and Uiflrudive. It elevates the mind and
oxpandsthe heart. They ru
« Whom Nature', wci'k, can charm, with God himfetf
" Hold convcrfe."
Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Mufeun, : ard the feathered tribe
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
fubk<s!», is now very arranged.
Waxen Figures of Men large as l.fe jfcm« of them
cafls from nature) are here dressed m their pr.per
hshif, and placed » attitudes of their
refpeftive nations. Here may be fee. (he North-
Savage,and the Savage of South-Amen
oa—a laboring Chinese, and the Chmefe Gentle
man —the forty African, and Kamtfth-ulale
with some Nanrss of the bayth Sea,lfl»nds. The
variety and inserting -Uverlity which
j,i. Museum offer, to the view may be Lcn bu,
«nnotbc described with fall effa«.
t/T Price only of a dollar.
, -• - %/'•
Xix Cajctfr.
p a 1 l I'd el phi a,
- , the
THURSDAY EVENING, Octqbfr 19. : fit d
■ —- - pecu
'[This i« fav the beij and nioft circum-. T
(lanttal account of Mr. Burke, and really ; n o-h
worthy a place in the New-York Gazette—■* \vhi
ma'rgre publications <if the p
great Edmund Burks.] (New-Tori Gaz.) wou
1 frien
The Right Hon. Edmund Burke. Irtlvc
It- is but seldom that the world is sailed a m
upon to deplore the loss of such a man as t ac h
Mr. Burke ; for it rarely happens that fnch ; n f t
in »ffemblance of virtues and talents as dif- ton i
tinguiihed him can be found in one indivi- i ea d
dual. 1
At any other moment than the ptafent, kjp<
we (hould feel otirfelves better h o.
vgive the charader of this truly great man ; a y e
for having so very lately loft him* we fear ; n h
tliat our sensibility may on the one hand ;
carry us so far as to make us set no bounds gfoc
to our praise of him, whilst on the other, his
our refpett for the dead may prevent us 1 JtJnj
from lexhibiting the shades as-well as the I dov
lights that belonged to /him as a human be- I mac
ing, in, whose natufe no such thing as per- p ar ,
fefticm is to be looked for or expeAed. I flj 0 ,
Posterity will form a better judgment of [ hav
him from hi* work* than his cotemporarits {hJp
can, who,4 being under the influence of jna,
party, fee him only with the eyes of pre- p a s,
judice or partiality : thnsi whilst by one r
set of men he will for some time be celebrat- f a y
ed as a model of the purest patriotism, he niu
will by another be condemned—htiwevtr t OQ
unjustly—as the Advosate of Despotism ma i
and Slavery, of Political and Ah- dut
tiquated Opinion*. on
It would be very difficult for any man tin:
in this*country, who has taken any part in an c
politics for the last seven years, not to have p al
ranged himfelf on the fide either of the
admirers or cenfurers of Mr. Burke ; and p ei
we do not pretend to fay that we have not na)
made up our minds with refpeft to his opi- his
nions. It i* on this ground that we feel wh
the difficulty of being called upon to give a hil
Aetch of his character. We may be bias- no
fed even when we think ourselves most free tet
from bias : we mean, however, to take irrt= H
partiality for our guide in what we are go- nei
ing to fay of this gentleman ; and we most p 0
deceive ourfelve*, if there be in our ye
minds the smallest trace of a lurking prin- f o i
ciple of unfairnefs, to prevent u* from using
the language of ftri& justice. lui
Ireland had the honour not only of giv- ci]
ing birth to Mr. Burke, hat of .having be- bli
gun and completed hi* educatiori. It has fti
aften been said of him by the way of re- b)
proach, that he was educated at St. Omers. ci
Any seminary of learning might have been ft]
proud of having sent such a scholar into nc
the world * and fufh a scholar would have d<
been too grateful not to boast of the febool di
of SL Omers, had he really been brought tk
up in ft. But the truth is, he never passed n<
a single day in that city, unless a* a travel- bi
ler, wbp, on hi* way to Paris, wished to g
fee whatever was worthy of a man of learn- oi
ing, genius and taste. The report of his a i
having performed there his early studies, x
originated in party misrepresentation, that It
would take from the weight of his, oppofi- o
' tion to the ministry of tlje day, by making o
[ the multitude believe that in his youth he o
had been a pupil of the Jesuits, and by re- d
' ligious profeffion a Papist. The insinuation ei
was in reality, though not intended as such, a
5 a compliment to the fathers of that society, tl
4 who, had there been truth in the afTertion, f (
i would have had as much cause "to be proud e
- of him, as we would have had little to be e
* a<hamed of them. t
'* The faft, however, was, that Mr. P irke e
, never was either a Papist or a pupil of the f
- Jesuits. His father was an attorney in t
- Ireland, and as such, at a time when Cat
'' tholics were excluded from the profeffion of
' the law, he must have been a Protestant. f
,/ Whether he had been so from his infancy, 0
is or whether he became so by conformity, a
r - we cannot pretend to fay ; but we believe, t
'' that be that as it may,'he was the firft Pro- t
ij teftant of his family. 1
f His children were brought up in the re- 1
>■ ligion of the state ; and his son Edmund
11 learnt ths firft rudiments of grammar at a 1
school in the county of Kildare, kept by 1
" a Quaker of the name of Shackleton, or i
b„ Shackleford, whom Mr. Burke had occa- i
u, fion, some year 3 after his arrival in London, i
to introduce to the Marquis of Rocking
hacn, and some other friends, as the inftruc- <
tje tor of his youth. ]
,g Under this master, he remained till he
n had studied the daffies, and till it was time
f- for him to remove to some higher seminary !
tc of learning. He was then sent to the U
niversity of Dublin, where he prosecuted
his studies, till fush time as, we beliete,
he took his degree of master of arts ; and
then he set out for London, intending to
study the law and qualify himfelf for the
a- bar.
id It was a lo& to himfelf, but not to the
" world, that political connexions formed by
him soon after his appearance in England,
th diverted him from tlje study of the law, a
profeffion in which a man of his astonishing
he talents could not have failed to make a
shining figure, and through which he must
K have risen to opulence and to the highest
office in the legal department.
But as in that cafe he would have bsd
en for many years the narrow theatre of the
four courts in Dublin for the difp!?'y of his
abilities, or perhaps the commons house of
;m a subordinate parliament, Ji'c might have
iet pafled through life only in his own
Lir little world, a man of considerable provin
ll." cial but not genefal reputation.
; c _ Soon after hi? Appearance in London, he
_ was to- the notice and acquaint
he ance of tb' Marquis of Rockingham, to
ch whbm. ( contrary to his own interest, he
u rar.ained attached to the end of that noble
liord's life.
The marquis loved the whig party better
than his friend Mr. Burke ; <o the former ven
he wifned to secure the benefit of this able The
man's talents ; but to the latter he did not tion
think of securing any asylum, where, in dels
the decline of life, or faculties, he might ers
fit dowm free from all worldly cares and priii
pec'.miury embarrassments. van
The negleA on the part of Lord 'Rock- britJ
inghanj might be called patriotism by the to r
Whigs"; but generous men would have ex- one
pei\ed from a generous patron either that he be
would, make a comfortable provision for a rigl
1 friend of tried fidelity, or_ that he would I
have been himfelf the firft to propose to him whi
a manumission from the (layery of -party at- intc
tachment, and advise him to pursue fortune ftre
in future ,und<? the auspices of his own as- by
toniflling talents, which could not fail to allc
lead hltti to riches and honours. btt
The Mtnyifs, hbwever, did neither ; he ded
kept hiwl t6 hitrvWf wliilft he lived ; and 1
' though he released to him by will a consider- the
' able debt, he left him greatly embarrassed tur
in his cireumftances. to
' Sach was n6t the conduA of Lord dei
1 Shelburne, now Marquis of Lanfdowne, to cer
. his protege Col. Barre. When the Roc- the
! i kingham Administration was formed on the doi
; I downfall of Lord North's, Lord Shelburne otl
■ j made it a condition of his aacepting a de- Be
■ partment in it, that his friend Col. Barre de<
• ' (hould have a pension 0f3,2001. iyear, which up
f having since been exchanged for the clerk- po
s (hip of the Pells, has enabled that gentle
s j man, and we trust long will enable him> to wi
" pass his days in comfort and in splendour. foi
c The public, on a view of this cafe, will Fr
• fay, either that Lord Shelburne did too to
e much forhis friend, or Lord Rockingham to
r toajittle for his. Mr. Bnrke indeed was wl
1 made Paymaster of the forces ; but a place C;
- during pleasure was not so secure as a penfi- op
on for life, as the event proved ; for he Con- ab
" tinued in the pay-office but a few months, ch
n and then went out with Mr. Fox and his ki
e party.
c It was a fenfffof honor or of fluty, or rij
d perhaps that kept Mr. Burke in
't narrow circumftan«es. Had he abandoned p*
i- hi» party, when it was ieferted by others, A
who, without the twentieth part of his a- H
a bilities, have fiuc* risen to opulence and ho- re
f- nors, he might have been a Cabinet Minis- hi
:e ter, and enjoyed a feat in the upper House. ,tl
He was firm, however, to his political con
-- neftions with whom honorable In
ft poverty to riches without then), till an e- ai
ir vent occurred which the Whigs had not w
forefeen. ♦ ' r
ig This event —we mean the French revo- w
lution—was, by some of Mr. Burke's prin- n
v- cipal party friends, considered at a great w
e- blessing to mankind, and an accession of e
as strength to the cause of general liberty : but d
e- by him it was viewed as a fatal blow to so- n
'*• ciety, to property, and to the British con- f
en ftltution. Which fide was right, we will e
to not take upon us to decide ; the cause is still e
ve depending, still sub judicc lis tjl; our chil
-101 dren, who will have Cecn the conclusion of c
ht the trial, and not be called upon to pro- f
ed n Junce till after the effe&s of the event have f
el- been fcen at\d._felt, will be better able, art
to guing i p'jfieriori, to determine the question t
•n- of right, than we who can only proceed to t
"lis arguments a priori. 1
es, But to proceed. Mr. Burke at his out- 1
iat let in public life gave the world a high idea (
>fi- of his taste and judgment, by his publication t
ng on " the Sublime and Beautiful," of both 1
he of which he has since furnifhed an abun- i
re- dance of models in lis Parliamentary fpeech
on es and his Political Trads. If we view him ]
:h, as an Orator, we mtift in justice to him fay, 1
ty, that in richnefa and variety of imagery, and I
an, fertility of imagination, we never knew his 1
ud equal: no man had so abundant a choice of i
be expreflions, v or so happy a talent of elucida- 1
ting a fubjeft by quotation! from authors of ;
•ke every age and every country, which at the
the fame time displayed the '.extraordinary re
in tentive faculties of his memory, as well as
2a- the prodiguous extent of his reading.
of Sometimes, however, he weakened his
int. fubjeft, by endeavouring to make it more
ey, clear and intelligible ; for when he hit ugfcin
ity, a metaphor, which he perceived had pleased
rve, the failey of his auditors, he pursued it
'ro- through a thousand different turnings, till
he might be laid, almost literally, to have
re- hunted it to death.
j«d Still hft fl -would haye had no equal in de
nt a bate, if he had possessed less irritability of
by temper, which expofedhim to severe retorts ;
or it threw him off his guajd, and then it was,
:ca- if ever, that he was vulnerable. Hence it
lon, is, that his Political Writings, have the ad
ing- vantage over his speeches, not merely be
ruc- cause they are more poli(hed and more high
ly finilhed, but because, being more cool
! he when he wrote, he was more colk&ed, more
;ime master of himfelf, and consequently gave
lary his adversaries less opportunity of cloGng
U- with and disarming him. ,
ited Of all his writings, his celebrated " Re
ete, fleftions on the French Revolution,'' will
and ever do him the greatest honor as a compo
gto fition, indepeudent of the political merit or
the demerit of the worst. It is a naafter-piece of
almost every species of style, thefublime, the
the beautiful, the pathetic, the familiar, the fim
-1 .by pie, and the ornamental: in a word, it is
and, formed to live as long as there (hall be found
v, a on earth admirers of genius, taste and ele
(ling gance.
te a As a palitician, he afted till the 1-reuch
nuft revolution, with the whig party, so that his
;heft politics and their* were generally the fame :
he differed from them however 011 some im
hsd portant topics, and even went so far ?is to
the oppose them. The principal of these was
r his the question of parliamentary reform, a mra
fe of sure which he always lent lord North hiaaf
have fiftance to oppose ; and from which, years
own before the French revolution was
>vin- of, he apprehended fomc such consequences
here as have followed that great event in
, he France.
aint- It was a misfortune to him even in bis
so riolitics, independent of his fortune, to have
he been attached to party ; for a party man is
loble often obliged, under an idea of conhfteHcy,
to support opinions, which, if held by in
etter wen or by adversaries, he might be
_r. <■: . ..v.- 1 ? ;J; ■
very much disposed to combat and Condemn.
The principles of the w.liigs at ths revoln- ®/wj
Jion of 1668, £ave always been deemed nio- bca
dels for those who pr<*fefs themlelves follow- fan
ers of that party : their conduft and their £
principles, however, appeared sometimes at and
variance ; but as partisans could not well con
bring themselves to allow that, they laboured the
to reconcile them, instead of admitting at in t
once that men arc fallible, and may therefore claj
be sometimes wrong as well as sometimes ivh.
right. , be
Mr. Burke was much hampered by the 1
whig principles. The turning a triennial as <
into a feptennial'parliament, was certainly » ny
stretch of power ; but when he considered a w
by whom it had been yade, he would not fcri
allow himfelf to cenfuve it ; and yet, on the anc
other hand, he was nttt very forward deci- wa
dedly to approve of it. pai
Mr. Fox and he have both appealed to fer
the principles of th" whigs of the last Cen- puj)
tury, to (hew that they have each adhered p'dii
to<Sthem in the present contest, It is evi- pol
i dent that they have appealed to a very un- mo
1 certain authority, as wliilft each maintained er
that he himfelf adhered to the true whig tub
; dodtrines, he as positively aflerted that the lar
r other had departed from, and abjured them. '
Between too fueh men who can venture to the
: decide? Not presuming to take such a task ere
1 upen ourselves, we will leave it whi/lly to kn
- posterity. * 1 ins
Mr. Burke has sometimes been charged | eel
d with inconsistency ; and in our opinion with
some degree of juOice. With refpeft to . ra«
1 Fiance, he was an Aristocrat; with refpeft !ag
0 to Trelartid, he was, iho' perhaps unknown ;gu
1 to himfelf, a Jacobin ; for the arguments : tj?
s *vhich he urged in favor of the claims of the Ith
: Catholics of Ireland, were such as, in our bi
- opinion,'juftificd not indeed murderS'and
- abominations committed in France, but the F.
5, change in the form of government in that
[3 kingdom, which admitted the great body
of the people to the enjoymerrt of political T
ir rights and a (hare in the legiSKture. J
n I The three greet featureSlof Mr. Burke's c
d parliamentary life w.ere his oppoiition to the ®
s, ! American war, his impeachment of Mr.
l- Hastings, and his reprobation of the French P.'
j- revolution. On all these three great topics n
f- he has left behind monuments, of eloquence
;. I thai will never die. ..
i- 1 His eloquence has not been merely bril- 1
le I liant—lt has also been persuasive, and placed P
e- I among the records of parliament plans from S
jt I which his country will reap advantage as
long asrit is a nation. The pension with a
o- I which he was so lately favored,.does not a- 3
n- I mount to two per cent on the savings, a
at which through him go now into the public ll
jf I exchequer, instead of the pockets of indivi- 8
ut I duals in office. We wish that we had many
0- I more such pensions to pay out of similar a
n- I funds : What he got he most richly deferv
ill I ced ; we lament that be did not live long to v
ill esjoy it.
il- I In public life Mr. Burke was, on account '
of los his talents, an objett of admiration ; in )
■o- I private life he was adored. He had some 1
,ve I foible* it is true, for he was a man, and , v
it- I therefore could not be all-perfoftion : bnt J
on I they were overbalanced by a thousand vir- j
to I tues. In philanthropy, benevol<jjLce, huma-
I nity, and charity, which embraife all man-
Lit- I kind without diftin&ion of colour, religion '
lea lor country, he flood distinguished in a stipe/- 1
on I eminent degree, in him the low and the hum- •
ith I ble never failed to find a protestor, nor '
in- I friendlefs merit an advocSte'and patron.
:h- I In a word, with a mind -the most com
itri I prehenfive, a genius the most fubiime, an ; '
iy, eloquence the most commanding, and a heart : '
ind I the most feeling, he wa6, to use GoMfflnitb's .
his I expression, "born for'the uni'verfe and !
of I if ever he appeared little, it Was only when j
da- I he marched at the head of partifeha, or to
of pursue the poet's image, when—
4jie I He ttat rwtd his mind,
re- I P ar tywhat xt>*s m:a*tforutahk'wd
1 From the N. York DIARY.
his SMOKING.
ore It is not long since smoking was £enpral
g»n Ily considered as a mark and privilege of
ifed I men somewhat advanced in life. Scarcely'
L it I a young man at that time considered it de
till I ctit or found it pleasant to fiiioke till after
ave I he was married, when he assumed thepipe as
1 an ensign of his dignity i it was his sceptre
de- las master of the house. Tobacco was (hen
of I never smoked in mixed companies without
•ts ; 1 fir ft enquiring whether it wao agreeable to
vas, I the company, whether ir offended the la
re it I dies, or some such coftipliment. Since the
ad- I introduftion offegari, both propriety and
be- I politeness have been continually violated by
igh- I the consumers of this herb.
:00l I When I walk out in the evening and fee
lore I a number of little fires moving about, alter
;ave I nately (ladling and disappearing, like so ma-
Gog l ny fire-flies in a meadow, when I pass some
[ of them and hear a parcel of infant voices
Re- I fquerking about Ann-street and damnation
will I and the devil, and other fpbjefts of the kind
lpo- I as familiarly as if they had been in
it or the infernal regions. I cast a thought upon
:e of the parents of these little men under 14 —I
, the think in what manner they are taking care
fira- of their education, and what fort of comfort
it is they may expeft from such children in their
mnd I old age.
ele- When I fee apprentices or servants loung
ing about the streets with fegars, I feel for
:uch them and their matters ; T cannot help
this believing that -with persons of this dcfcrip
me : tion there is some connexion hetwjen a fe
im- gar and a tavern, a gaming I)qn/e, and other
is to places and pra&ices that I could mention,
was This ideal connexion, 1 confefs is not logi
mea- cally, but is too practically true,
isaf- Masters who permit journeymen or ap
rears prentices to smoke while they are working,
Light may oenflder the inconvenience of two things
:nces being carrjed on aJt once and among carpen
it in ters, joiners, and other dealsp in combusti
ble materials, a. third and fatal eonfequence
1 bis may happen ; witness some late fires,
have Evpning convcrfationa in places of lazy
an is rendezousj such aa lumber-yards and unfin»
?Bcy, ilhed buildings, which ate too frequent a
y in- mong the rougher class, accompanied by
bt be this portable fire, we likewise dangerous.
1 . ' (
To the young buck, whether at the.
•vingt-un table, or in the circle of female
beauty, a fegar is a piece of armour as neces
sary to him as his pantaloons and bootees.
Smoking is in itfelf not reprehensible,
and to Tome may be beneficial—but let it be T
confident with p«rfon, time, and place. By
the family fire fide in the hour of relaxation,
in the social circle of men, by those who may
claim the refptclable privilege of age—any
•where provided in all cases that the praftice
be nor offenfive to any present.
!"or myfclf, I am no enemy to smoking
as an innocent indulgence, and in a compa
r ny of my friends whom I generally fee once
a week, when pipes are introduced, I sub
scribe something towards raising the cloud*
and find it very uffful in telling a story, by
• way of purMuation, or marking the proper
pauses, as in writing : thus, a single puff
\ serves for a comma, —puff, puff, a fcmicolon ;
■ puff, puff, puff, a colon . —-four puffs, a full
I point. I have even gone farther : —I sup
- pose a pause, with the pipe kept in the
- mouth to represent a dajh—longer or (hoi t
-1 er in continuance.: notes of admiration and
r iutcrrogation may be easily expressed on liur.i
---t lar principles.
. 1 Taking but the pipe and discharging all
> the smoke from the mouth may be corifid
c ered as the conclusion of a paragraph, and
j knocking out the alhes, or, if a feg'ar is the
, instrument, throwing it into thr fire, is hc
-1 | ceffarily the end of a chapUr.
\ ' Imagination might ft ill find much' efflploy
a ! raent upon this part of the fubjeft : to im
l j agination, then," I leave it, desiring' parents,
n , guardians and others ferio6fly to attend to
s ! tte former part ; for it is connefted with
e 1 things of more importance than the mere
r burning of a leaf.
d
ie From the Farmer's /Weekly Museum.
" Every one to his trade.''
4 j What {hall a man do who has no trade 5
Learh one. Every one need not be a me
>3 chauic ; but every body liave fomr hon
)e tft employment, understand truir bufir.efs,
" flick to their trade/' and let otbtr'<peo
ple'i affairs alone. This is the way to grow
C 5 rich, and live happy.
, c When I \tp a barber's (hop, and' hear
Mr. Tonfor \ hose information extends but
j] little hr no he end of his lign pole, prate
politic , i the French directory, and le
m g'Aate f* ; the American congress, T fay to
as myfclf, " y "one to his trade." A wig,
t j, and 4 ownftituu'oa, are very different things ;
a man may be quite a connoisseur in oni,
and very ignorant of the other—T oll^ol "' 4
[•'c tongue proves this as fully as a " ftrofig -ar
vi- gument chain."
The indultrious farmer or mechnnick who
I, v are not content with ftpall and sure gain*
v fliould remember, " a bird in the hand is
to worth two inthebufh." After they have
tried their dear experiments in merchandize,
|nt horse jockeying, or land speculation, they
; n will have reason to lament their not adher
me ' rt o t0 text " " tra(^e lfl gpodi
n( j well followed." A man may make more at
)[lt in a poor trade, {hat he is mas
ter of, than by an apprcnticediip in better
|a bnfinefs, that he is unaequajnted with.
The lawyer ha/angues for his clients,
reads authorities, quotes precedents, refines,
defines, and splits hairs ; fays much that
* you don't underltand, much that you are
unable to contradi£t, and more that you
don't believe : you bear him through, from
m " May itpleafe your to " I sub
mit it to yqu> gentlemen of the jury you
,_j rt approve of part —of the reft you oply jay,
i he 13 a lawyer—" Every one to his trade."
! „ ; this is an tmncceffary trade, a diftionell trade.
. : Hold, friends ; " all trades rauil live."—
Wb'lfi there are rogues, ignorance and pre
judice, there roust ]>e4aws, and while there
i are laws, there mull be lawyers,-.or every bo
dy must leave their trade to study law.—
When two people are at variance, they think
very different of the merits of their cause ;
ra ] they tell different {lories to their lawyers—
C both fides are sure of the cause—a lawyer is
i not a conjurer ;he can't foretell what the
<Ye witnesses will fay—when they come before
f ter the court, out comes the truth against the
a 8 unfortunate client : he loses his cafe ; and
tre makes amends by cursing the profeflioh.—
i,, n Deal fairly with your neighbour, tpfl .the
out P' ain trut ' l to y olir attorney, and you will
, t have but little occasion to speak ill of the
] a _ lawyer's trade.
the
and ANECDOTES.
1 by
DR. BALGUY, a preacher of great
fee celebrity, on acount of the excellence of his
Iter- sermons, after having delivered an exceed
ma- ing good discourse at Winchester Cathedral, I
ome the test of which was " All wisdom is for
ices row," received the following extempore,
tioH but elegant compliment from Dr. Walter,
tind then at Wincheder school :
in If wVat you ativanee, dear do&or, be true,
'pon That wlfdom is,far row, !l«vv mjytCbeA are you!
care WHEN the MkVocofm came out, a peri
ifort odical worjt by the' Etonians, the Weftmin
:heir fter scholars publidicd the Ttifler, as a rival
work, and prefixed to it a frontifpiece, ia
lln g- which«thf irfpedtive publicationswere shewn
1 for .hi a pair of scales, the Trifler weighing
help fiawn the' Microeofm. Upon which Mr.
.rip- C. who was chiefly concerned in writing
a fe- the latter, coinpofed tlu; fjl'owing neat F.pi
'tber gram :
tion. Whit mean yo jby this print rue,
'°g'" Ye a its, of Ktpw jlalou?,
But that your riv.ilsy«,v in air f
rap- And you are btwyfello-vjs,
ting,
hings THE late Mr. Sheridan' attriliuted the
•pen- general decay of public virtue in this cotin
jtifti- try to the people not knowing how to i£ad.
icnce A very eminent silk mercer fays that* the de
cay of female virtues in this iiland has its
lazy fotu'ce in the universal fa {hi on of weajing
infin- linen instead of silk : for by that means they
:nt a- are»doubly hazardous, and fcarxe a week
a by passes without a female being either fnged,
s. ftorched, burnt,.- ■By this clay's M;iil.
NEW-YORK, Odober 18. '
A gentleman who came pafTeufyer in the
. fhijj Citizen, from L:(bo'.:, which place he
kit 011 the 19th oF AiVguft, informs, that
'on t fie 15 th Admir?.l Jervis wis dill before
Cadiz, hut nothing particular had taken
place. The merchants and other inhabitants
were rcturi.inir into sown, and it was flip
pofed the blockade would soon be giyin up.
Admiral Jervis had <ent orders to the
commanding officer of the Brltifh ships in
Lisbon, to embark all military flores, to
man the prize ships, fend them
to PlymouJ h.
Yesterday arrived the brig Gracy, Capt.
Lawrence, from Jamaica, Sept. 19th, East
end of Jamaica bearing S. E. distant 5 miles
spoke brig Rofanna, of Salem Capt. Archer,
27 days from New-York, bound to Jamaica,
all well. Odobern, Cape Hatterasbear
ing >l. W. 10 leagues distant, spoke sloop
Sally and James bf Philadelphia, bound to
Charleston, out 2 days, all well.
By the Gracy we receive Kingston pa
pers to the 16th September:—they contain
nothing new.
The British frigate Thifbe, captain Har
dy, fired nineteen guns in honor of tlje Pre
sident on his arrival in town.
Estrad of a Utter, dated Curracoa, loth
, June.
" I have now to the condemnation
of all the vessels here by the French agent
according to orders he received—except the
ship Nestor, capt. Rogers, which is still in
dubio; and the fch'r. Betsey of Boston
brought in here by a vessel without a com
, jnlffion. /
" The memorials presented the Governor
and Council by Mr. Kingston, had no
weight, as they are principally concerned iu
the privateecs, as you will fee, and which
they could not deny."
These proofs are fer.t to establish fads
which without them, could not be believed.
MARRIED—On Saturdaythe Bth inft.
Washi»gton Morton, Esq. of this city,
to Miss Cornelia Lynch JSchuylir,
daughter of tj»e hon. Geo. Schuyler, of Al
bany.
Communication.
A comfpondent asks, why Premiums of
1 Insurance have not fallen, since every pre
text for our dear allies taking our property, I
IS REMOVED? It is surprising, that
the late IMPORTANT DISCOVERY
about a diversity in the form of a role <Te- |
quipagt should not have brought Premiums
down to less than half to what they w?re
„ two weeks ago. Instead of which, the ,
. price of insurance is the fame as it has been ,
lince our dear allies have taken- it into their ■
heads to rob us; which clearly proves that
our Underwriters arc firmly convinced that
plunder us they will, let the Role d'Equi- 1 (
page be in the OLD or NEW form. I
Communication, j j
Amidst the contradidory opinions which j
agitate our learnedly medical and profound- :
ly philosophical men, refpeding the origin* (
(whether their domeftie or foreign) of the ;
epidemic, and deftrudive disorder with ]
which our cities have for several years been ,
sorely afflided; a correspondent totally un- ;
acquainted with the principles of medicine, ! (
is surprised to fee, that more attention has I ,
been paid to find out the cause, than to fug- 1 t
geft preventatives for a return of those au- (
tumnal scourges. Considering the local sit
uation of the city of New Yovk, Happily
placed between two noble rivers, it must be a
evident that canals cut from the North to '
East River, by having vast bodies/of fait c
water running with rapidity through the 1
heart of the city, would greatly tend to cor- 1
red bad air, and to carry off the filth by c
which it is' generated. In addition to the
above suggestion, as a means of securing the c
inhabitants of this city from infedive difea- t
fes, would not the ufeof coal instead ofwood, "
prove an excellent corredive of the peftilen- I
tial exhalations which arise from the quanti- 1
ty of trade ground on which a great part d
of New-York stands? . The freedom of the a
city of London from domeftie infedious dif- 11
eases, notwithstanding its immense popula
tion of upwards of a million'of people, and n
its extreme filthy streets, raulk in a great a
measure, be attributed to the general use of i,
coal, which from the sulphureous matter it p
contains, must be a powerful corredive to
bad air arrifing from the putrid exhalations .
of animal fubftanees, &c. !'
These two ideas are submitted to the con- "
fideration of those who are difcufilng the ■>
fubjed of the fatally infedious autumnal r
fever. f
ti
BALTIMORE, Od. 17.
BOARD of HEALTH. 0
BURIALS tl
In the weft part of Baltimore, heretofore ti
eallad the town—for the last twenty-four f<
hours—ending this morning at fun-rife : 01
5 Adults, 1 Child. P
Burials in, the east part, called Fell's
Point, See. including the Potter's Field : so
8 Adults, 1 Child. p
(Signed) Joseph Townfend, clerk.
Odober 16. »
le
tr
PROVIDENCE, Odober 14. ti,
While with gratitude to the supreme Dis
poser of all events, we announce that the
fever, which swept off a number of our va
luable citizens, has totally subsided in this
town, wee deeply deplore the conditionyof
out- afflided brethren of Philadelphia, Balti
more, &C. who are still fuffering under the
Icourge of this dreadful peftilencr. Such
of our inhabitants as had removed, have re- <w
turned or ai;e returning, and bulinefs is again so
happily reluming its former appearance.
Xlie Gazette.
\
PHILA DELPHI A,
jj TTinRSpAY
' at Extras of a letter, dated Wiliejbarre, Otlok
)re i°, i? 97-
t U ?. n an^wer t0 part of your lette:
1 s in which you ask, " what was done on th
'P* arrest of Aaron Gillet, by the Deputy Mai
P* fkal of the Federal Court," I mult acquair
. e you, he was discharged by order of the com
in Md here last August, and the reasons c
, c the difcltarge given by the President of th
m Ccuirt, Judge Rush. As it will no douh
afford yo\j a degree of fatisfadion to be in
I • formed of the grounds on which the Cour
went in deciding so novel and interesting
cafe, I shall take the trouble of dating then
:r > to you, from very full notes I took of wha
a » fell from the Judge.
The Court, he said, were suddenly cal
'P led upon, on motion, to determine a queftioi
° of a delicate nature, which has the appear
ancc of a collision of jurifdidion between ;
Federal, and a State court—that want t o
ln books in the town, want of leifuie, and hi:
own indisposition, unfortunately confpircc
r " to prevent the thorough investigation of the
fubjed, which it deserved ; and he menti'
oned these circum dances, he said, as an apo
logy so r the court, in cafe it should turn 9111
1 hereafter, that they had fallen into an error
He then stated the fads—Aaron Gillet
n an inhabitant of.Luzerne county S»s beer
II ai relied by the deputy Marlhal of the Fede-
IC ral court in Pennsylvania, 011 a writ of ca
n pias, to answer Resolved Sessions, Esq. of a
n plea of trespass on the cafe, and bail order
ecl dollars. From affidavit)
• and authentic documents, it fully appear*
' r to the Court; that Gillet, at the time ol
the arrest, was attending here under recog
" nizance, to defend himfelf against an inqui
sition of forcible entry and detainer removed
into this court, and was also bound over to
answer for a riot.
A motion is now made to discharge him
from the,cuftody of the Marshal ef the Fede
• ral court, upon the general ground, that
» parties and witnesses are privileged from ar
' reft, during their attendance on courts.
The constitution of the United States,
and laws made in obedience therfto, are un
doubtedly the supreme laws of our country,
to which this court will bow with refped,
whenever they are applicable to the queftioa
, before tis. But on the point noiv agitated,
» the constitution is silent, and the Ccngrefs have
\ never legislated. There is therefore no di
reß authority on the fubjed ; and in such
cafe, we mull hare recourse to general prin
-3 ciples.
[ It is an invariable rule in law, that a cause
; cannot be carried from an inferior jurifdidi
-1 on, but by an appeal, or writ of error.
r These are the only modes of removing a com
-1 plaint to r higher Tribunal.
c I But should the arrest be deemed valid in
", the present instance, a cause fairly in pof
| session of this court, may be snatched from
them, in an ob ique and indited manner ; and
its jurifdidion overthrown, in a mode whol
-1 ly novel and unprecedented.
V ' l be the duty of this court to furren
' derits suitors in all cases, and to withdraw
its protedibn in the present instance, it/would
1 be equally incumbent on us to do so, tho'
1 the party were arraigned at the bar of this, or
| any other slate- court, on a charge of felony
• ! or other high crime. A dodrine that might
1 ; readily be carried such lengths, as to prove
the means of subverting entirely the jurif
didion of the state courts.
Establishing the present arrest, will have
a tendency to invite the Executive officers
of the United States, to watch the fittings
of the ftatc courts, in order to arrest persons
against whom they have legal process, instead
of going in pursuit of them, to the places
of theimabode.
W« apprehend the law to be, that the
court, on which the party or witness is at
tending, has the power of affording immedi
ate relief. Instances may be found in the
books, where process has iffucd out of the
King's Beneh, and the Common Pleas have
discharged, which (hews the prin iple, that
an inferior court podefies power to prated
its own suitors and officers while attendihg it.
It is not easy to conceive how the adrni
niftration of juflice could be|£onduded on
any other This power must be
inherent in every court—it is the right offelf
prefervation, without which it cannot exist.
Every court, according to the authority
in Cowper, may discharge or not, accord
ing to their difcrction, under all the circum
fiances of the cafe. And perhaps this is
right. For if it should appear there is any
abuse of privilege, the court would, not pro
ted. But there is no pretence that
Gillet had avoided the officer of the United
States, or that suits against him are fiditi
ous. We shall effedually discountenance
every fraudulent effort to find shelter, under
the cover of privilege, from the hand ofjuf
tiee ; and as effedually proted every honefl
suitor in this court, from the officers of all
other courts, 6f whatever rank, dignity, or
power.
We therefore order, that Aaron Gillet,
be discharged from the custody of the De
puty Marshal of the United States."
The following passage, if not fine poetry is, at
leuft, admirable sense, and stay he juilly applied
to all patriots Vj fro/ej/lon, of all ages and of all na
tions.
"To feiffn i red hot zeul for freedom's Cause,
To mouth aloud for liberties and laws,
For public good to bellow all abroad,
Serves well the purpoftsof private fraud.
Majors andniiror, differ in name,
Patriots an&minifters are much the fame ;
The only difference after all their root,
Is that the one is in, the other out."
C 5» The buftnefs of the CUSTOM-HOUSE,
•willfrom thii day It tranfaucd at Cusstkr
for fame time.
Sept. 50.
_ Far the G?a rlt t\ >f ,h<_ oVates.
' MR, FEiINO,
A falfe account liaving been publi filed in
Cobbett's gazette of an affair hfitwe-. 'n Dr.
Rofs and njyf< If, I beg you will g'iv ; the
following true ftatemej-.t of it a place in your
f. P a P er - J. \l.
However d;fpofed my father may 1 lave
been to treat the numerous cnlumnies p üb
r, lifhed againil him with to % ait
ie th% decision of a jury of h:s fellow-citizc 'us
r- upon them, I have p.ot been able to redn.tc
it my fce!:ng3 to the fame degree of corhpcl
- sure. Public fufp.'cion early fixed upon Dr.
>f And rev*. Rofs as the author of an account j
e of the conduct of my father in the year '
1 793 > publiihed in your paper by a member
1- of the eollege'of phyficrans of Philadelphia,
t I called at his house to nfl< him whether or
a nat, he-was the author of that performance :
n not finding him at home, i foot hiui the
t next day tke following note :
Sir.
As you are uniVerfaliy believed to be tha
n author of the publication against my
- Dr. Rush, in Mr. Fenno's gazette of the
3 6th inft. I take this method of demanding
f whether you are or are not the author of
s the said publication. Your, filenee on the
1 fi'.bjeft, shall be eonfidered as an acknow
c ledgment of your guilt.
I am, Sir, &c.
' JOHN RUSH. 1
t OH. 16.
Dr. Andrew Rofs.
, To this note he replied, " that he knew
1 nothing of Mr. Rush or his father," and re
turned it to the bearer to be delivered to me.
The next day I feßt him the following note
1 by Dr. Bullus :
* Sir,
1 I once njore demand an unequivocal an
-1 fwtr whether you are, or are not the authbr
of the publication agninft ips father alluded
■ to in my note of yefVerday. My friend,
Dr. Bullus will wait for a decisive answer.
•■ * I am, Sir, &c.
JOHW RUSH.
Oct 17.
Dr. Andrew Rofs.
Dr Bullus informed me in reading this
note he was much agitated, and after calling
me an " impertinent puppy," he wrote the
following reply :
Sir,
} don't understand why yon take the lib
erty to call on me for any newspaper abuse
you or your father may complain of—l sure
ly never,did nor never intend to Write any
observations on any physicians' conduft or
pra&ice, and sincerely regret the unworthy
conduct of both printers.
ANDREW ROSS.
Dr. John Rush.
This note would have fatisfied me, kad it ft
not been accompanied with the epithet he
applied to me—lt produced the following
note to Dr. Rofs :
rr- S ' r ' J
The unpolite manner in which you treat- Jy
ed my note of this morning, and the epithet
of an " impertinent puppy" which you have ]<
applied to me, demand fatisfaftion. IF you /
refufe to give it to me,'l fh?Jl cpnfider you
as a scoundrel, and treat you accordingly.
JOHN* RUSH.
Dr. Andrew Rofs.
The bearer, Dr. BuUus not finding him
at home, delivered the above note to him/ in ®
my presence ; after he had read it, I asked p
him whether or not he had called me an
" impertinent pupp/'—This .question he
hefitatedi in answering, but upon Dost.
Bullus declaring he had used those expref
fjons, he acknowledged that he did, and af
terwards repeated them. Upon this I struck
him fir ft with my fift ajid then with my
cane. He retired ; I waited to hear from
him during the remaining part of the day. p
In the evening I wa6 surprised to find he
sent the following ntite to my father :
Dr. Rofs requests Dr. Rush to meet him '
to-morrow morning in the Jerfies with 'a f
friend—Mr. Walker will let him know time
and place. m
• To this my father sent the following an- dr
fwer : _ tr ,
Dr. Rush wishes to know for what puj- f e ,
pose he is to meet Dr. Rofs to-morrow he
morning in the Jerfies. f t .
Off. 17. . i th
It produced the following correfpon- v i<
dence:
Dr. Rofs will let Dr. Rush know when
they meet. '
Tuesday evening.
Dr. Rich's time being much engaged at
present he cannot consent to leave town with- TI
out knowing the business he is to go upon.
OH. 17.
The fofc purport of the meeting is to have
personal fatisfaftion of Dr. Rush for the
ruffian assault of his sou this morning, of
which he c»nfiders the Dr. as the sole in
stigator.
Dr. Rush.
Sir,
I do not fear death, bfit I dare notftf
fend God by exposing myfelf or a fellow
creature to the chance of committing
murder—l have never injured you, and I
freely forgive you all the injuries which
you have attempted to do me.
The treatment you received this morning
from my son, was not instigated directly or
indiredtly by ffle. It wasoccsfioned by your
calling bim an " impertir.ent puppy" —yOiir
note without thqt infijltrtig wotijd
have fatisfied htm. B.r>RUSH.
Dr. Rofs.
My father in calling upon a magiftrnte to
bind Dr. Rofsyover for having font him a
.challenge, afted as he thought pr<sper—but
the public will judge Ikjw far Dr. Rofs's
conduft comported with the behaviour and
courage of a gentlemen, to challenge a man
whom he well ineiv to-be principled against ' Cj
dueling ;»the father of eight children; and i
one who had neither injrtred or offended him, !
and at the fame time to pass by the person 1
who had insulted him, and who he kneiu Ca
was ready and willing togiva -fcjtw ?ny Atis- leii
faftion hercquired. JOHN RUSH. 1
Ofi. 19. . Br
ns. [7„t foUjK.r.g zt'js ha,ul tl for publication by
the fubjcr 'il-er.~\
1 in , f •
>. From Cubbett's infamous Gazette of Wed
'he uefday:
>ur " W.hat shall be ft-id of the base wreteh
who sets his son and domestic, armc-d with
ive bludgeorts, to wayUay a gentleman, and tq
ib- beat him, and who, when called on himfelf
ait to answer {"or the offence, flies to a justice of
ns the peace, and binds oven the injured chaL
te lenger. Oi'i the exalted mind—Oh the
0 friend to hmnanity ! Many a man is brave
r. I with a lanc*:t who dares' not look at a'
it' j sword."
ir < REMARKS.
:r MR. COD> IETT,
i, Give me'lea ve to tell yon, according to
>r an established principle of your own, the
: above statements: is altogether falfe. Dr.
e Rose was not wi(y laid as you have asserted,
but »ccoft<;d by «ie near my father'r house,
nor *»as there ad. omeftie present. Dr. Bul
ls lus, whose interference protected Dr. Rofs
r from a more severe chaftifemtnt than he se
e ceived, was the oialy person who joined in
g the affray. The w -capon I ufpd was a cane.
>f Now, fir, I mull ft igrfiatize you a lyar and
e a perverting Rascal. You call yOurfelf an
Englifhma?—Ertglillimen are brave, but
you are a coward.
Some men are Wave with a pen who dare
not handle a piftul.
, ... JOHN RUSH. .
V Interments since our Jail Reports, as col
lected for th is Gazette, from the Sextons
of the different "Burying grounds.
e ' > Adults. Children,
, Quakers o i
Free Quakers' o o
German I.utlier in o o
CalVsnifti o 3
r Hi ft Prelbyteri i ti o o
] Sect-Ti l l>r«(byter ian o o -
Third Prcfbyteria.* o I
' Scots I'r. fbytt rhn O o
AG'oeiue Church o o
St. Mary's Church o I
Trinity o O
Swedes o o
Q o
Potter's Fiald o o
1 Moravians o o
Bip.ifts o o
Methodists o o
Univerfalifts o o
KenCngton p 0
Coates's c< o
City Hospital 4 0
Christ Church o o ,
St. Peter's O | o ,
St. Paul's o > o
Total 4 6
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT, <
Fron\ 18th to igth Oft. in t.be morning. c
Admitted, since last report, c
Mary Ann Cenlin—Fifher's, Vernon street. b
Died since last Report. p
when admitted I how long ill previ- t
| ous to admittance, a
John Rowe, 29th ult. 5 days n
Mary Ellis, Bth inft. 4 do. b,
Remaining last report 39 a
Admitted since t 1 ; c
40 ti.
Discharged None u.
Died 2 2
Remain in Hospital. | j in
Five of whom are dangerous. j dt
In erred since last report. m
From city and suburbs 2 ta
Hospital • 2 ir
fr
Total / 4 al
Stephen Girard. Jbi
(Signed) Caleb Lownes. Pr
John Connelly. th,
Publjihed by order of the Board, ' fu,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman pro tem. ele
c-
The Committee of the DtftriS of Seuthtvark, lift
Under an anxious desire to prevent, as du
much as possible, the future ravages of the an
dreadful disease now prevailing in the-dif
trift, do earnestly recommend to their ab- =
feJit friends who are removed from their
homes, to remain a few days longer, as the
fever still continues to rage } and several of
those who have lately returned, have fallen ®S
victims t» its violence.
SAMUEL CHURCH, Chairman.
John Clifton, Jun. Sec'y. fev
Southwark, Oftober 18, 1797.
Haerisburgh, Oftobern..
The following isthenumber of votes given 1
in this town and Paxton for Representa
tives in the General Assembly, Sheriff
ajid Commissioner for th? County : .
ASfiIMBLY, VOteS.
William M'Clay, had 389 "S
Samuel Aisfworth 246
David Kraufe 302 car
Cornelius Cox §8 roj.
Conrad Bombach 169 '
Henry Beuhler 1 2 e ',
Uhey Weltmer 132 1 —-
Christian Ley '55 I
SHERIFF* '
Andrew Lee 143 w "
Henry Orth 233 '
Anthony Kelker f 168)
Henry Stine 65 ' '
Benjapiin Deffebach 10 g ":.
Abraham Doebler 11
John Hoge « 101 i,„*i
COMMISSIONER.
Matthias Henning 291
Sheuy _ *1
ChHftofjher Uler lsi
William M'Clay 1755 f &£
David Kraufe 1662 J- Elefted. sub:
Sagiuel Aiclworth 1573 j
G\AZETTE MARINE LIST.
FORT OF PHILADELPHIA. _s
Arrived, fhjp Ganges, capt. Green, from
Calcutta. The Ganges touched at St. He- -)
leila, and left that llfland the Ift September. Sou
/rrfaed at Netv~Yar!, Days. forr
Br'g Gracy, Lawrence, Ja-ngif» ' (b«
1 b • «■ ■ *r ' ' ~
Oftuber 12.
«TWt nrnved ttie bri £ Muia, captain'
ed- I, ' s * 1 $ dil ys from Cape Francois.
Commodore Barney had not arrived there on
teh tbe ■ 2 " l " th . Se P temb;r - % this vessel we hv-C
~( h received information that the brig Patfey,
captain Livirigftoii, of this port, .was eap
felf tUr « C ' c ' nto Port-de-Paix about tbe
, 0 ( 2 otn Augutt, and is condemned.
i a j_ Baltimore, October 17.
the Arrived on Saturday, ihip Hampton, cau
jvc Stafford, fifty-fix days-from Bremen.
' a rS ~IL ' Bremen in company with 3
Bremen (hip for this port. Left the land's
end, August 27th—passed amiral Bridport's
squadron Handing in for the Start Point.
to a", .'.s9' z8 » l° n g-9> 3°> fpokethefhip
Jjc Abigail, Ray, of New-York, bound t»
)r Bordeaux, out 18 days. In lat. 37,
'd, MP' 2 ' 'P°' le brig Marian, Burk,
r c ' f™ m Malaga, bound to New-York, out 28
j! . da X ß ' In «*• 3 6 < 34. long. 67, spoke the
,s 3 bn £ Elen » Peterfon, from London, bound
_ e _ to Norfolk, cut 56 days.
Z ELIZABETH-TOWN,(N/jT)OarS.
jjJ RIGHTS OF WOMEN.
an n- At , the L e!eiaion in this town, the Females
ut r ,U- P r,vlle g c ? ra »ted them by the
laws of this (late, and gave in the:r votes for
members to represent them in the state Wif
laturc. » b
A Correfpondcnt remarks, notwithftanJm*
, the imputation ofarijlocracy under which iMix,
IS Co:m!y bas f or a ! '»g fine laboured, it "mull
now appear irxor.tejlahle that they are the friends
n. and P a <rons of Equality, ftiice no iefs thanfe
ventyfivs women inert potted at the late eleß
-in a neighboring borough. The rights of
man have beer, war tt! \ infijedon by Tom Paine
and other democrats, but we ou'Jlrip them tithe
science of government, and not rn/y preach the
rigilts of Women, but boldlypafh it into p ra 8-
.fee .Madame Woljmeraft has certainly
the merit of broaching this fobjeft, and as ■wo
men are now to take apart in the jurifprudehce
ofourfiate, we mjy'fiortly expeS to fee them
taud the helm—of government.
BALTIMORE, Oftober 16.
Messes. CLAY.LAND & DOBBIN,
By infer ting the inclosed copy ofn,petition to the
next general ajembly, you will oblige a num.
ber of your headers.
s g
Tothe QEIfERAL ASSE MBLT of MAPT LA \ T D
The petition offundry inhabitants, freemen of
Baltimore county and citv,
Sheweth,
That by the form ofgovernment, all freemen
above 21 yearsKof age, having one years rtfi
dence, and having property to the value of 30
current money, have a right to vote c.t eleSlious;
. but the evidence hitherto adduced to prove the
perfen entitled to a vote, has been his own, oath y
■ which in the heat of party at elcßions ; take up
' a Z r ' c " deal <f''"if, and is produSive of the
moj baneful confluences, of perjuries, and fa
bar nation of perjuries.
That by the form of government, eleSfons
are to be heui four days, under which conßruH
ton they are feme times hetd open until 12 o'clock '
on the evening of the loft day, and fame tirJt
the polls are closed at funfet,jujl as it „ wy bt
undcrflood, or may fuitparties.
Tour petitioners therefore pray, that no oaths
in future may be admitted at the polls, horde?
to prove the eligibility of a voter ; that the evt
| dence of the voter being worth 30/. current
money, may be the ajijment books, ■where hs is
taxed to that amountf hat the evidence of his be
ing twenty one years of age, May be i> certificate
from his parent, guardian, or feme other refpeS
able citizen ; end that the evidence of citizcn-
Jbip and reftdence may be, by legal certificate, to
produced by the persons offering to vote; but
that the voter being ajfejfed at 30l.Jhall be pre
emptive evidence of rejidence.
And your petitioners further pray, that no
ejections in future may be kept open or held ufter
fun down ; and that the legislature tuiUef.ab
lijhfuch other rules and regulations, for the con
ducing elections, as to them may appedr proper
and they will pray, (sfc.
oSober 14. ,
For LONDON,
7 HE SWEDISH SXOW
W-^ v - GuftafAdol pkz>
«Capt. Chs. IVm. Ramte ;
Exp«<ted to fail in all the pr«fent month—A
few tons of Goods are wanted on Freight *nd
will be taken on moderate terms, if speedy appli
cation is made. Apply t»
' Peter Blight.
Baefc of his new buildings, Dock-llreet.
OA 15. 5
For Freight or' Charter,
The Davifh Brig
Atyel Cathsrina,
: Burthemsbout 160 tons.
! THIS vcCt'l is now read}' to receive 011 beard a ■
cargp, and may be difrf.tched to an 7 port in Eu
rope or the Mediterranean in eight Ays.'
Apply to the Captain 011 b-jarJ, or to th»£u''ic,-i
---le.". JAMES YARD.
OA: 19. diet
Wants a Place,
AS WET NURSE, a young, healthy Womon,
with a frdh breaikof milk. Apply to the Printer.
ca - '9' - 3- _
Medicines.
OF t-vtry kind n>ctiTr.Ty for the alfo,'Sa- v
go, Barley, and Oatmd, for diet drinlc, will be
gr-;ti«, during the pr.'lVot contagion, to
tb-fe who are unable to.pay for it, pi Hunter*!
Laboratory, No. 114, iiouth Secunr Street.
" MED I C I N E S.
THE Poor who msy find it incotircnient, frrm
(iitlance, to make life of Mr. rre
ritorioua offer, will he supplied with medicine —•
fcijn, barley, oatmeal, &c. by ap-lyinj at ;he
fubferihsr's store, No. 36, Market-street.
c ROBERT S. STAFFORD.
IHE MAYOR'S OFHCI?
IS tSPT, FOR TOE PRESENT, AT THS .
city hall.
Sept. 8.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT the Connr.iffioners for tne DiAri.fi of
Southwark have removed their hall to the Jieu:«
formerly oecup ed by Samuel Ge£f, ir» Chrifti.in t,t
of Pifut ft/cet. C>ft. 1.Imported in the Hup Man Chester,
Benjamin Sheweli., Mailer,
From Bourdraux, and fur Cslc by the fubforiber, a
No. ii Walnut St-rtt. 5
Ijonrdcatix Brandy
Li h irurket ehret in cases Entitled to -
Medob wine, in dp. Drawback.
Saiiternc, do. do. ti
Thomas Murgatrsfd. ' l
WHO HAS FOR SALE. (
Sherry Wine ftj pipes and quarter calks '
Rota do. • do.
J'it.K-nto in bags
bufliels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
is : -• ■ —j "
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the liigheft bidder, at the house of Mr.
Wjitlam Evans, .the sign of the Indian
QJeein.w the city oti Baltimore, on the Sslh
day of October ne*t, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven tboiifand aetes of land,
th f e prfosrty of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
■ lying between Heifler's-town and Westminster,
eofcinionly called Little Winohefter, (the turn
pike r®?.d runs through a conliderahle part of
thefc lands) the trafl begins about ij miles ,
from Baltimore, within a saw hundred yards ]
of laid Reiftcr's-towa, and extends to the dif- .
tancCkof shout twenty-three miles from BO ti
ne re, and lies on tl»e main falls of Patapfico ;
river, Ff-om.tjirpc to four miles thereon. Will
be fo&J in Kle'U of one hundred and filty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of nrailpttr and wood land on each trail, ,
lome of thefn highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fiae gr. fs.
AISO *•
A tract of seven hundred acres of
iajul, called Clover Farms, withftt five miles of r
BiadeAfhnrg, etteemtd very good for Grals. «
Kicfiard Ponfonby,of Bladeufburgh, will shew , b
this land to any perfoi>in<;lined to purchase. | d
Ai.ro,
A traft of land of about three hun- B
di ed and thirty awes, within about two miles g
aa.i a half or the President's house in the Fede
ral Cly. It is n»irly all wodd land, and a fine
rtKijj'h profprfl, ?ron. which m3y be fern the:
c!:y of VVafhington, Bladtnfburgh, Alexandria !
and a part of George-town, and many miles
dow'h ch* Potomac river. Mr. Richard r'or.fon
by, of Biadenlb'jrg, will also fbevr this land. j
-V liberal credit will be given for the greate ft
part of the purch.ife money. I'he terms will J
be made known on the day of sale. t
May 3 a
Just Received, I
From Batavia (via Providence) c
a few Boxes of Spices, consisting of ,e
Nutmegs, Clovesand Mace ' "
1 For l'a'e by I
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Pcno. street. I
'may 36 dtf
Davis's Law Book Store, ]
No. 319, ffigh-Stre/t. j
GEORGE DAVIS, J
btified for foms time past in prepara-
J tions for removing into his profent houfe,has
been undpi theneceflity of poftpouinguntil this day j
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro ..
tha United States, that his spring importation of j
law books is now arranged and ready for la'e, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
fnceace he has experier.erd fur tevcal years past.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tton ever imported this country, are printed
and will he delivered on application.
June 17. " w 6w
City Commijjioners' Office,
1 June »i, 1797.
IN purfuanct of an ordinance from the fele<sl
and common councils, passed the aid day of
May last, appointing the city commissioners,
and prefcribin? their duties, fcftion 9th,
notice is hereby given,
Thatthe«ity is divided into five diftrifts,
each to be under the l'uperintendance of one of
the city commissioners, whois to be individually
relponfible.'for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftriil No. t. From the south fids of Ce-
to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
rthe I'uperintendence of Nathan Boys.
1. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-ftreet,under thefuper
inwndence of Hugh Roberts.
3 . From thanorth of Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, under the fuperiritendenee of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-flreet, to the
north lide of Mulberry street, under the fuper
antendence of Willia'ni Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulbejry-ftrtet to
the north fide of Vine-ftrcet,, under the fuper
ik>Pendente of Niiholas Hicks.
Thecleaningof High-ftrect to be it! comoion.
0" Aftated meeting of tha city commission
ers is field at the' Old Court House, in High
flreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
July '4- eoim
Stands for Draymen, &c.
til purjuanct of an Ordinance from theSeleft and
Common Govnali, bearing date the lid day of
ylpril, 1797, providing fir ibt appointment of
City Commissioners, Ssr. Scß. the Ij/A.
following places are fixed upon by the
X said City Commissioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Korfes.
In Vinfe-flreet, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Safiafras, and Walnut-fttreets,
eallward of Front-street, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftredt, east fide from Vine-ftrcet to
ElfVith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's itores, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of-
Stumper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreetfrom Pine to Cedar-street, weft
fide.
Draw bridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pi»e and South streets, tail of Frost
street, south f'de.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
fiag stone crcffiags, east fide, opposite George
Orkley's.
Seeond-ftreet, between Saflafras and Vine
flreets, weft fide. 1
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Saflafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-llreetj
«aft fide.
No dray or horse to stand wiihiaien feet ot
"VrThDS FOR HACKNET COACHES.
Pine-ftrv>et a north fide from Fourth to Fifth
Fiftb-ftrcet, between Chefnut and \\ alnut
streets, weft.
Branch-street, north fide,tetween Third ano
Fourth streets.
J»l> 14. mw^fim
A literary Treat.
j'jl t>ubl'ijhed, hafidjomdy printed oil writing
* paper, price I dcllnr, ' *
A new edition of that popular aud onCertaining „
work, mititled " f
THE FORESTF.RS, an American Tale ; being
as- quel to the hiflory John Bull, the Clo- ,
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, wish the ad
dition of tw 0 letters, alluding to recent political (
ti uufasSioniin America. I t
j'h< following extrafl from the Clavis AUegoriea,
fnews the principal eharaitcrfc that are'ibtroduced: '
John Bull, the Kingdom of tngland
His Mother, the Church of iicogland
Kis Wife, the Pailtameet '
llHSider Peg, t|je Church i»f Scotland '
His Brother P.ttiick. lrelaivd
Lewis, the Kingdom of FranAe
HjsMiftrefs, the Old ConiUtution
His new Wife, the Natio'&ri Recrefentati an
Lord Strut, the Kingdort of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutc'i Republic
The Pranks, the French 'Republic
Tfce Ftwefters, the Unit *d. States of Avnerita
Robert Lumber, New-'jfSainptoire
John Codline, MafTachi|iJ.'etts
Humphrey Plowfhaie,
Roger Carrier, Rhode "Island
Peter Bull Frog, New- York
1 Julius Cselar, New-Je^fey
William r.roadbrim, 'J ennfylvania '
Caffimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Gnndfon, George WafiiJngtoß
"Peter Pitch) flerth Caroliija
Charles I::digo, South Carolina
George Truily, Georgia
Ethad Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentuckjr
Elack Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
.s3* This popular and enterta'aiing satirical hiflo
ry of Aniatica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasagrr.at (hare «>f originality and a
bonnds with genifine humor/r. It is continued
down to the prefi nt time, shd chiradlerifes thoje
late political trafjfaftions 1 ybich have caused so
much uneasiness America.
Sold ky H. i,nd P. RICFj, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Mtr«et, and No. 50, Marke' fUeet.
Juncz6. v , §
[ > '
LAW I'iOOKS,
Latefl I^ondon an< I Dublin Editioift.
H. & P. RIC.E, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, said No. 50, Market street,
HAVE jufl received 1 by the late arrivals from
London and E)u hlin, their spring importa
tion, confiding ef a vririety of the iattli and most
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the. most extensive collection ev
er offcrcdfor faleint'ais eountry. They thelefore
beg leave to noti«, t Jiat from the nature of their
conneSicnsin Dubli «, they arc enabled to felllrilh
editions (as they ha- /e hitherto dou<*) at the very
lowed prices. The. following are among the latelt
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 3 %.'.s.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of L «rd Hardwicko ; Floyer's Procters
in th e Ecclefiaftieal Courts ; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pradlice of
the Bourt of '/ting's Bench in Perfonarl Actions, »
parts comple Ie ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; m adern Reports, J X vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P, Rica e*pe& ta receive by the firti ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford :md Haft's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of .Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
Jane - (t. ,
Th;; History of PennTylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD, »'
IS nrr.v in the press, and will be published,
wi/n all convenient expedition, by Zpcha
riai/ ju"n» No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propofclt, antil the
work is ready for the fubferibtrs.
July 18. aawtf
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FRP.EMAN Is" Company,
is difTolvtd by mutual consent. All persons
having any dem«ids against the said House are de
sired to render Jjie fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to th»Houfe are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom bufinel's will in future be
carried on,at hisStorc, No. 39, South Front-street.
Augufl 7. «od4w
Richard and James Potter
HAVF. removed tlicir Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
& uguft 2. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrifirurgb Carli/le,
Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are to take notice, that
the partnership which has for fomeMme sub
sisted betwean Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and.
, William Geer, is now dissolved : bat, not as M.
Sloogh infinuatesto the public without just cause ",
as will mote fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December iaft. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Auy gentleman who wishes to be
more circumflantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Gter may have
the perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and then ean be
f at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer i».not perfe<sUy jnftifiabie in attaching him
: felf to any other person in the pj-oftedtion of the
r Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
\ _ Now from' tbe liberal and generous fapport the
public were pleased to confer on the firl) effort in
, this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
. Messrs. Reily, V/eed and Wi'mer, is
0 to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
o lie can pofUbly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
[. with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
,j\ those wno wifb to patronire and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
a George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippanfburg. The fare as hitherto
'' established.
For the further aecommedation of the public,
f a Stage will dart every Wednesday from the house
;e of Sanmcl !Klder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
e and return from theoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturdav, so that passengers destined for
1- Lancaster or Ailadelphia, may proceed 011 Mon
ti days ' WILLIAM GELR.
I.accafler, Jan. 17, 1797-
>f N. B. This Line of St*aje9 ftart9. from the
house of William Ferrac, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday fhorning at 6 o'clock, pro
h ceeding to the westWard; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Eldei in Harrifburg.every Wednef,
it day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick CticFTran's ih Sbippenfburg, and returns
(J from thence on every Thiu joay : performitig the
-fame routiaa daiiy as ill its tour frem Philadel
phia. . mwl
Advertifcnicnt.
C* the Jcth of November next in Alexandria
(b:.court day), will be expoVed for f.-.le one
or Snore covering Jacks, and fcver.il young
on- js or different ages and
fro.in Royal Qitt (an imported Jack from Spain,
ut (wart's of :*j kanfft high! out of imported <<
J:jinies from Malta, full x.v.hands high.
The terms of faie (or if not fold, of letting
t hem for one or more seasons to will
'Jien be najtly known: the payments may be
m.-jdeeafy to the purehafei-,. bond and fecnrjty
being given for 'he amount, with inlettft.
At the lami time and pice, funjry
Horf'"; a tit! Mai*ej will be oCTered for f»le. The g
latter having been to the Jacks, aie probably L
withfoaj. '
JAMBS ANDERSON, Manager. 1
our.t-Vcrnon, 20th r ,
September, 1797. 3
Insurance Company of the State
of Pennsylvania. n
-pHE Ofii- e will he l:cpt until further notic: at
L the Schjol Honfe in German to wo. The w
Company (till retain the room in Chefnnt, above 0
Sevinth ilrcet, where a'perlon will atund to re
ceive and give answers to applications, «very day
from 10 until I o'clock. C
Sept T-). dtt?.awt f j
I'homas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their cuHomers a»d the public, they /
have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, they have their store open in
the city. At either place their friends canbefup- ®
fiied, and their orders carefully attended to
By the Cumberland* from Hull, they have re
ceived a handsome affni tmcnt of articles, luitable v
to "the approaching season ; and erpiit to add to it
by other falllhips.
Should the Gckuefj prevail in th',' central part of
the city, that branch of their business wilj be r«- '
moved to Germantown. •
The communication by pod is open and re- '
gular as a full.
Sept. 18. • . thtf t
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP S *
A Light WAGCjON almcft new, with a frame— e
J and a pair of harness (Engliih collars) has never t
been ufetl—price 90 Dolls.
A Horl'e 16 hands high, fever, years old—and a
new ctiaij", with a falling top and harness— 320.
liuquire No. 33I K Markct-fircet ,
Aoguft24- diw
Tor lile or to be let on ground
rent,
A--valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal- c
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; tlrere are at
preler.t two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale, )
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftorps, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-ltreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- 1
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to Uje
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thcfe houses !
ave the conveyance of a public allty adjoining I
on the north fide, and are a very deferable fitua- 1
tion for a merchant, flour fa£ior,or others who I
may have occasion for storage of goods. Thil <
property will be fold on very reasonable t»rmi
for calh. for further information ajiply to the 1
printer.
July 3ti mdcwtf
1) be s a L d," ;
Anif pojfe/jion given immediately ,
ALARGK two story brick floufe.handforaely !
situated in Princeton, There art* four rooms 1
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back bail Jin g* 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excelljeut kitchen garden, at
farther end of which are carriage house and two
flables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for 2J horses. The heal
thinefa and pleafantncfs ot its situation, and the
number of g«nteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, render it a deferable retreea£ for a
gentleman from the city. The conamocjioufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largenofs of
the stables, make itevcrf wayfuitabfeforatavcrn,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capitil
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton,
City of Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house jo,ooc dollars,
& calh p,0,00a, are jo.ooo
1 ditto 1.5.000 .& cast 15,009 40,000
1 ditto 15.000/& calh 15,000 jo,ooo
I ditto 16,000 it ca>b 10,060 lOjAoo
1 ditto 5,000 & eaih 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5 t obo & ea<h 5,'000 10,000
1 calk prize of ro,ooo
'» do. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000
do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
10 do. 500 - ie»ooo
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
»tx3 do. 50 - 10,000
400 do. a 5 - - 10,000
1,000 do. »o - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 • 159,000
. 16,739 Prizes,
i Blanks.
1 -
!#. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
1 she last drawn ticket, and the the i,ast
> but oni :
1 And approved notes, fecu»ing payment in either
s monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
t be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
, ets.
1 This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ertdied in the City of
0 Walhington—Two beautiful defigps are already
leletfted for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; fro»n thtife feiwikig'tt ispiopofed toereel
e twocontre«id c oi»r<eorser baildinps as fooll aspof
.- fjble after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
r, when complete, to the fortunate adventuri-rs, in
g the manner defcriba'd in the fchenje for the Hotel
r Lottery. A r.ett deduction of five per lent, will
- be made to defray the necessary cxpenfes of print
ing, i&c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund inUnded for the National Utriveriity, to
be eretHed within the city ol Walhingtoti-
The real fecuj>itiesg;ven for the payment of the
y Brizes, are held by the President and two Dired
-1 ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
f moYethan half the amount of the lattery.
1. SAMUEL hIGDGF.T.
1. ,§ t Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colam
„ Ua ; of JamtsAVeft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
e C.ilmat, EollotV, of. John Htjpkms, Richmond ;
1- Pand of; Hirtvatd Wslh, Cooper's Ferry.
m«'f
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM' YOI)NG, ejraer ol
Second snd Chefimt streets,
Price 3-8//S.r of a. Dollar, li
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V ttnd VI of
" The History of the United States for S|
the year 1796," A
In which' the ca *r<;b or spiculatio* againlt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, A
Lite Secilktakt of the is FULLY
REFUTED. v
tr girt a n nr ulut sl r.
This publication prefyits a ccnctl'e IHtenjent
of the bsfe means ttiy&iftd by the Jacobin? of the
United State* to, asperse the chaj-aflers of tbofe
p«trfons woo aVc confid' red as hollite to'their difor
gaisiziw* fch'.me". It alio 1 contains the tor
refpondenfe betweeti Mr. Hamilton and .MeiTrs.
■fvjoriroc, Muhlenburgfi and Vcnab'e, or the fub
jefl of the docutn-anti. aloreliid, and>a furies of let
ters from James Reynold?and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the pojftbiuty cis ait-'ubt,
that the connection between him and Reynold*,
was die TLiUit of a daring eonfpira6yon tiv part
of tin; latter and hi* affuciites to extort money.
:!?? A dlfcount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor Vd wholesale purchasers, for
tAsu. Orders to be addrcfled to Mr Yon Wo.
At!"n/J 2t\
* No. xBB. "
tiiflriS of Pennsylvania, to wit :
(l s)*H E U that on the
JD tweaty sixth day of Joly, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dif
tri&,hath deposited in this office the title ofabook,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words folio-wing, ,to wit :
" Obfervatious on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in -which tha charje a
" of {peculation, against Alexander Hamilton,late e
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted— f
" Written by himfelf," r
In conformity to the a& of the Con jrefs «f the ,
Ucitcd States, entituled, "An ait for theencoflr- t
agement of learning, by securing the copies of ,
maps, charts and books to the authors an-/ propri- ]
etors of such copies, during ha times therein man- s
tioned." ,
SAMUEL CAM)WELL,
Clerk of the Diflrift of Pcnnfyltan'ta. j
July *7. , W4W I
The Inhabitants of the Diftrift \
of Southwark,
A RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to'be '
Zjl kept at the ConAables* office, the north east
earner of Front and Almond ft recti, where the '
friends of those sick persons who desire to be re
moved to the City Hospital, arc requested to make
application—Also, a Hearse will be kept in readi- ]
nels for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.—The Foor, who wish to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furniflied with order*
by applying as above. Aug. 29 (
William Blackburn, ;
toTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE .;
No. 64 south Second- street.
TrCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
comitienced drawing the 19th May, FOR
SALE. of tickets will rife id propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the last day of
drawing
Chech Books kept for examination and regifter
iog, in the Canal, No. 1, City of Washington, No.
2, and PateHon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfalein the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawieg i» the course ef the fammer. ■
The business of a Broker in all kinds of ?eoek,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- Bcc. tranfaited with the
utmoit attention.
June 2 tti V f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
[Price Cents]
A View of the Causes mid Consequen
ces of theprefent'War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 1 5 \ §
Ttjte trials.
Sold b W. Yoong, Bookfellt-rj No. s*, South Se
cond-ftrtet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
GONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of FrancisHopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. -Price, in board?, J
dollars.
\V. Yodnc. has fo{ sale, a general afTortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the paclt
rge, well aflorted,and entitled .to the drawback if
1 xport«d. J ply 7—**
| Y For Sale,
, That lucllkriQZun place, called VANDEORier's
> ntiy,
, Neffiaminy oreek, 18 miles from Phila
-1 ladelphia, 011 the Kew York pftft ro<ad,
containing 74 acres and 94 perch«. Upon the
i premises are a Urge two ttoi y stone house occu
> pied as'a tvern, and a good one flory stone kit
-1 chen, a large frame liable with ag-oodthrefiiing
> floor, and l'ome out buildings—llfo 2 well of
) good water, and an excellent ice Hoyfe. On
, this place is a molt elegant si tuition for a gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny to its jun&ion wiili the Delaware, and thence
acrols to the Jersey Ihore. It has the privilege
. of one half the tbll received from the bridge,
s For terms apply to the ScWerilwi-,
MORDECAI LEWIS,
yav 24- ' atawtf,
I COLUMBIA HOUSE "
Boarding School for young Ladies,
r 11 /fRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas
" ureand fefpeft, returns her fi'ncere ac
- knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
Ibe has received during four reftdenee in
lf Philadelphia; and aflures her friends aru! the
lf public, I'o far from intending to decline her
y fcbool, (he has made a superior arrangemsnt for
J the more convenient accommodation of li.er
r scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
ediicatinn is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and maftcrs excelling in their
.1 refpedtive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June ;th, 1797-
The situation is perfetflly lteallky ; and made
o more agreeable by an extenflv# garden and lot
of ground adjoining the hnule.
e . JuJ} Published,
it And to be hid of Mtffrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other piicipal Eookfellers in the
city.price one dollar, twinty-five cents,p ho-anls,
New Views of the Origiii of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, M-. d.
JVne 20. '
Rofs & Sinifbn,
H AVE TOR. SALT.
r Hcpfheads,
Eicalltst Coffee in ) Tierce!, and
C. Barrel'.
A (mall parcel of nice cncon in bajrs
"•* few fru - .'lico'i. T-mi.iicK fpiri's, fourth f roof
Superior Tcreriffee wine, old an ! in Madeira pip«s
An invoice of jewellery and hoficry to be fold by
the package
A few hmipirs of heft En lift) cheese.
Tuly a?. dtf. .
%he Subscriber has for Sole,
A large afforrment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine , 1
Tndia Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Chesln
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handker«kirfi ,
An invoice of IrifltkLineus and Sheetings, will
alfort.-d
A Hox of Diapers
f'illc Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, cotaininjJ Nutmegs,
Mace aad Clevis
Black Pepper of firft quality
East IndKv Ginger
Java Sup^r
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordccai Lezvis\
Ay:aH it. li'urin
Biggins' Specific
FOR THB
PREVENTION AMI) CURK OF THE
YELLOW FFVF.P.
EVER, since this disease mail? r *ch rayagwin this
i city and New-York, the author has turned his
attention to itscaufes and cure.—The refiilt of his
enquiries has convinced him that the reason why f6
few persons recover from its attacks, are from its
not being well understood, and the confeqnent
wrong method taken to cure it He is persuaded
that theexceffive bleedigns and »T?ercvri«l reatmeat
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by theufe of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his tyecjfie as a
certain remedy, if used aocording to the directions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Cherry ftrect, two doors n
hove Ninth dreet, (lats manager of Jackson and
Co*s Medicine London)s by J. Lt
llancy No. 2 r 6 ; W.Griffith,No. 177, T". Pearte, No.
31, South Third street, T. Stiff, No. 5 j,New flreet,
near Vine ftrest, and J. Gales > No. 36, Race flrect.
Aug. aj. tuths 3t
colds,Asthmas, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just.received, by Wm; Griffiths,!^.!?},South
Second-street, a frelh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John HiU ,
(who knowledge as a Botanist procured iiim
the appellation of the Linnxus of Britain) and is
•onfldered in England as a certain care for the above
complaints; it is also of lingular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Sto«s,No.
61, South Second-street, and T. Stift, sj, Mew
ftraat, in bottles at 7$ cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy efc
fe£l of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing fomc within his own knowledge) and the great
demand .for it has induced him to order si large
supply, a part of which he has just received.
Augujt 3. uwjw
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gifiwrd Dally, a mulatto boy, about 17
years of age, a dim light built a<ftive fellow, can
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
and trov.fers, a high crowned hat, fme fhoe6 & a,'
rlellons, a black man, about 24 years of
age, five feet fuVen or eight inches h/gh, 2 thick set
cluiify built fallow, particularly about the breech;
! had on a sailor's blue jacket lined with fwauflcin,
dark frriped veft,/fuftian trowfers, high crowOfcrt
hat, coarse shoes &c.; each of them had several
skirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for tl*e runaways, or 15 dol
lars for ertch, and reasonable charges, os delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The b!ack fellow is a,hout a year from Lewi# ,
Town, in the Ccuuty of ftate of I>ela
. ware, and has taken the boy with him.
f ll ly 31- mty w
• ~To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Stoty Brick on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
' Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
" The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet dfesp,
the lot 1 re feet deep, wjth the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet widt Court for Carriages
j to turn in. The House is not flaflered, and
may he turned either into one, or two dwelling
- Houses. It is ftiitabie ff r a Urjce Mauu&dory,
or would make a gomJ Taverji. larrjedijie
j pofiefiion will be given. \
Apply toKo. Hi, Ciiefout-Ssreet.
Anp.il. c^d^t.
I Musical Injlrwnent Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch Street,
- "FTARPEli^nrpfichordy^rand,portable grrv*
g 11 fid vboarc], pkr table dr,u fcuare tiai.o ior«e
f mak'r from.Loncon, returns thanks (o his frietxis
n and the public, for libera! vncourjipenitrt,
.. and hopes that by his and attcnticii to ct
ery branch of his torr crir. a ur.oce
e of their favors. Piano fortes made on th/ .ib
and molt approved plan?, with prdals, patent,,
fwcll, and French harp flop, which he H .tte;«
hinffclf will t»e found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to he K not superior to any import
ed, aad Twenty per csnt cheaper. Any inilrn
_ nt*joft purchated v,f bim, il not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kiiv's.of Mufi'eul
uned, and repaire with the greatt.il accitnicy,
difpafrch, and on the moll reafonabie term , Ur
- ready morloy oniy.
it Second h.md,Piano Forte* taken in exchange.
R May ?,<*. &ini.
(• ■ "<, ~ \
r Forty Dollars Reward.
>r t~) AN away from i!ie fnbfcriber on the Ceo
■r K. onrfdayof. this iiul. July, a Mulatto Mun,
:c named Will Bow/cr,":'hi>-it forty years 6f age.
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
ir chunky made ; had ou when hs went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfei s
and jJtket. lt is pn bable he will change his
cioathes, as he took with him. The
' e saul f*l'o\» formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
3t Blake of this piact; and it is expcilccl he hag
made tawards Jones's the -Delaware
State. Any" person apprehending toe fcid fel
low, and feciiring him lo that ] can get hijn a-
c ' gain, f,i»il receive the above reward if taken
lc out of the county, and Twenty 'Dollars if in
'* the chunky, ar.d ali reafoi.able charges if hro't
e home.
JESSE REED,
Queen Ana's Couatj-, Maryland.
July 3. w3t