r of & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
L£i
Number 1365.]
<£> NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public pipers, will commence this even
ing, at the £ity Tavern to be continued from day
I" day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4
Boarding and Lodging
May he had at No. 62, Penn-ft eet, in a creditjblc
family
January 9
Wants a place, as Wet Nurse,
A woman with a good bres(l of milk, who can be
well recommended, for further particulars enquire of
the Pi inter. Jan. 17.
Public Nptice,
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of thw state, to supply the
defe& in my Title to a lot of ground, situate on the Weft
fcde ©f Fourth-street, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Westward, by
ground of the subscriber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippen, and Eastward by Fourth-street, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewis
aud Jamt« Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux
—All per ions concerned, are required to appear before
two of the justices of the said court, at the house o£
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief Jaftice of the state, 011
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fubfcribcr, filed in the office, of
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the said ceurt.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1.797. dt3oth
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL fituatedj laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four fcparatt Patents. For terms of sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South
mwftf
October 31,
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut
flreet, where a corred: Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
char «red for prizes diawn in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received,
£jf" The Bufincfs of a Broker carried on as usual.
January 12. / ttstf
SALT PETRE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pstre for
sale at No. 2;, Sauth Third-itreet.
November c.
,Parl.cular Ten< riffe Wine.
$0 Quarter-casks Particular Tenerifife WINE,
Of a superior quality,
For Sale by
A. Marple tS° Israel W. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-ftr^et.
January it
For Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
Three stories high, 16 feet front, and 40 feet deep
each, and idjoisiing; iituated 011 the east fide of Front,
between Kace and Vine-streets ; No». 161 and 163.
They will be fold on very reasonable terms, either
separately or together. Apply to
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
d?.w
January 13
LOS T,
On the Road between this city and Baltimore,
A black leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing sundry papers valuable only to the owner,
also between three and four hundred doliars. Whoever
has found the fame, and will leave it at the office of
the editor No 119 Chefnut street, with the contents,
particularly the papers, (hall be handsomely rewarded,
an ; no queftiojis alked.
January 17
A CARD.
Jf Monjieur G H. SoHLt,
• Who left Bordeaux the 20th June latt, and arrived
at Boftoß ;.bout the, middle of August, in the schooner
jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requefied to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. Chefnut-ftrect, who
will give him some information of importance.
December 24, 796. $
WANTED,
A MECHANIC, to eredt Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, fiich as are used at my manutac
< <ery—Apply to JAMES DAVENPORT,
No. 401, North Front-street.
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
and a man of {lability.
Globe Mill 9 December 29, 1796. §
Cheap French China.
THE subscribers finding it impolfible to supply. their
{lore with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufa£lories, give no
tiee that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
Heck on hand, confiding of
Delfert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupes and Figure«
Alabaster Vases
Looking Glafles, in gilt frames,
. Besides India Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER & Co.
Na. 91, South Second-street.
December rtln-
F O
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, Ntrtb Second Street.
"S r Hyson Skin.
> Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
j C Bohea
3t»W3m
Imperial
Hyson,
Young Hyson,
D«c. 9.
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.,
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
w&f
Nov. 30
tts6
SALE,
MONDAT EVENING, JANUARY 23, 1797.
7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
"'Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY ia not fold in a few days, fne will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
O(Sober 31. d '
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nanct,
Cuthbert Kiggs, matter.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to
• William Bell;
Who his for i'ale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well afiorted
3 Bales Irifti FlanneU, and i boxes Linens
»5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c
November 11, 1796,
The fajl-failing schooner ORION;
Seventy tonsburtheH ; fifteen months
old ; her frame is of the best ©f white
oak : Ihe is a faithful built yeffel, handsomely finifhed off j
and well found in every particular ; Js ready to receive a •
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex- ,
pence op her hull, fails or rigging : she flows fix hundred ,
barrels ; has a handsome cabin and steerage, and a half 1
deck which will stow from feventy-five to eigfcJjr barrels ;
has been newly caulked, graved and painted. For terms
apply to BEN J <\MIN RHODES,
At corner of /farket arid Fifth-ftreets,
Or to the Captain on board said schooner at MeiTrs.
Willis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-flreet
wharf; where there is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the best of American Mess Beef, and some vsry excellent
liofton n-.anufa<fturcd Chocolate.
December 26
For Sale, or Charter,
jfjjfeL r ''' ie Ship DIANA,
gS&'&rj Samuel Pile, Malter,!
10 ' 5 47 "9-5 tens re si® tr > in
in the year 1791, of live oak
and red cedar, and was sheathed 13, months ago, Jhe
has ju!t had a compleat out-fit, and nuy be i'eut to sea
at a very trifling expence.
FQr terms apply to
Philip Nicklin Co.
Ifho ha-ue for file on hoard fetid vejel,
calks of fine yellow paint,
9 boxes and iz bundles of writing flatss
i box ink ftandi and note preffct.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand t
Imperial }
Hyson, and, £ TEAS.
Souchong )
40,000 pieces Nankeeits of tlie (Wft qaalitj'
19 tubs Qmckfilver.
i chests Bandanni handkerchiefs
A few chests Maiichefter goodswell aflorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
j boxes black sewing silk.
180 crates Queens ware well afibrted.
10 tons ftittt lead
NaiU assorted, flat and fljjrp points.
London Particular, ") .
London Market, C Madeira VI ine in pipes
New-York Market, ) a,id i>ogtn.-ads.
40 pipes and 10 hojrflieads Tcneriffc wine,
8 tierces Snake Roat,
ijo logs Mahogany
Nov 7
Women's Cloaks
GEORGE DOB SON,
No. 15, South Third-street,
Has just reeeived, pe-r Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via I.on
don, an aifortment of
Scarlet "\
lira!) r Cloak* trimmed with iur and
Purple and ( ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. S
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the of the United
States,
On the following Pojl Roads, <uAll be received until
thejirjl day of Match next inclusive
I. From Charleston, S. C. by Jackionboro' and Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the Mail
at Charl«fton every Tuelday and Friday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah evV
Saturday, by 6, P. M. and Wednesday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Chorlefton the next Tuesday ard Friday
by noon.
Propofuhftr till route -wilt be reuived by the fnf-mafer at
Savannah.
1. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
p v m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. M . and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, A. m.
Propofalp for carrying the mail on this route will be re
ceived by the pofl-mafler at Beaufort.
Note I. Ihe Poll-niafter General may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance of the contrasts, he previously flipu
liting an adequate cempcnfation for any extra expence
that may be ocoafioned thereby.
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
tradt, the contra&or shall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars fliall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any pcrfon making proposals desire an
alteration of tlie times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, he must state the alteration desired and the price
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration.
Note 4. The contracts are ta be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
/ JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
PoS Mujltr Central,
Ceneral Pod Office, 1
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1796. j
Vin. i£.
FOR SALE,
Russia Matts,
Also,
mwftf
tth&flf
dfiw.
ON TUESDAY NEXT WILL BE PUBLISHED,
Porcupine's
POLITICAL CENSOR,
For Deccmbkr, 1796.
CONTAINING
Remarks on the Debatei in Congress, particularly
on the timiiiiy discovered by the House of Represen
tatives in their language towards the insolent French.
A Lbttfr to the infamous Ton PjiNt,
■Sin answer to his brutal attack on the chara&er and
conduit of General Washington.
January 10.
BALL.
Ne<u> Cotillions, Scotch Reels, and Contri Dances.
Messrs. Francis and By-ne beg leave to inform their
scholars, friends, and the public in general, that their
firft Ball for this fcafon will be on Tuesday, the 24, at
O'Ellers's aflembly-room ; at which a variety of new
Catillions, Contre Dances, and the molt celcbratee'
Scotch Reels, will be introduced.
Messrs, Francis and Byrne propose to give gratuitous
attendance at thpir school room, for the inftrudhon of
those Ladies and Gentlemen in their new dances, who
mean to honpr the ball room with their prefence,—at
tendaßce for this purpose after their school hours, on
Tueldays, and '!hurfclays.
Tickets to bt. had of Messrs. Frmces and Byrne No.
ye, North Eight street, or at O'Ellers's Hotel. La
dies are requested to apply to their female fria* Is,
ot Messrs. F. & B. ur as above, at their r«fi
dence.
N B. The new daaccs will not infringe upon the
usual routine of the evening.
The days of teaching for their young pupils are Thurf
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon
till fix—and onTueidays & Thursdays, from fix till nine,
for those of a mora- advanced agej
"% r * Private tuition as usual.
January i I, 1797
Frejh (garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c. &c.
This day landing lrcm the i)iip Eagle, captain Fofdict,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLD I HWAIT & MOOIIE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-streets,
A mcji capital and extfn/ive Ajfurtmcnt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c,
Among which arc,
A{p aragusl [Three
Berecok Twelve
Beans [Thirteen
Beettj Fifteen
Brocoli Fifteen
Cabbage; Six
kindi
Five
Four
Twenty-five
Six
Kitven
Twenty-fix
Six
Carrot;
Three
Fiv^
l'civ
Cauliflowerj
Celery!
Cucumber |
Common and
Curled leaf aud
Pot Mary gold
Balm 'l'hyme
Leek Kail
Rape Srei Rye Grals Saint Foin Lucerne
Re* and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of tiie mod efteemcd
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extenGve ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
arc warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. t £$
In order to tamply contracts, I •will Jell, for
affnved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Frederickfbin-g, beginning op
poiite to the lower corner of Doflor Wcllford's, on
Caroline-flreet, and running up 10 the croft flreet
leading to Fitzhugh'j krry, and firem thence back to
Soyhia-ftreet. This square I have bid off into 14 lots,
»7 and an half feet front, and 121 back, 11 or} Caro
iine-ftreet, and iz oil Sophia-flreet. Nine of those
on Caroline-street I have leafed on an annual ground
rent of 8 and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purchaser Could enhance the value
of by building small houies, which will as readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will' Martins in the
spring, and yiel-o a greater profit in proportion to
their cost than large buildiugs. Thof* who inctin;
to purchase may knew the terms by applying to
HENRY FJTZHUGH.
Beli-Air, Dec. 8, 1796
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES tn ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stene-Gutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland is 1783, or 1784, and came into
this Country, ('tis fuppafed to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be Jiving or dead. As'this intelli
gence is of thehigheft importanee, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
December 31
13auk
of Penniylvania,
At a. meeting of the Dire<slors th«s day, a dividend of
Gxteen dollars on each Ihare was declared for the last
6 months, which will lie paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th mft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafhisr.
dtf.
J""- 3-
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was beujht for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He ears 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks With his trtnlc.
He is pe-rfe&ly inoffenfivc; travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an hour, aad is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this CojitHieu*.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-ffreet between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price, of half a dollar will
be refumcd.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31
Elegant Brussels k Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, Ne. aj,tiout!i Third-street.
D«cembei 15,
ALSO,
2awt24^
kinds
CrefTe«
• Onion
Radifli
Turnip
Savoy
Parsnip
Melon
Lettuce
Four
Twenty-three
Twenty-one
lemon Thyme
sprigged Parsley
Pot Marjorum
Mangci Wurtzel
1 Shallots
7thJ.d4w
No. 313, High-ftieet
.w & f 1 m
January 4, 1797.
Mms. G RATTA N
Refpeflfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the loth day of January,
Ihe propofei opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftreet, 1
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 te 12/* I r per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/3 to 5/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/10 per yard
Pine Coffaes
Tamhour'd Book Muffins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard
India Mnflin, from 11/3 to Ij/per yard
Sheeting Muffin
Jaconet muffin Handkerchiefs, frem to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muffin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to 10/6 per hdkf.
Muffin colorM andborder'd Handkerchiefs
Ilr.ccn Handkerchiefs
Tambaur'd Cravats from 10/8 to 11/11
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from nAto 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
Huckaback Tewelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6/J; to per pair
Dimity fr«m 5/10 to tfu
Men's Silk Hose
Tana&ourU muffin Handkerchiefs from 11/11 to
Irilh linens tor Gentlejren's Shirts, from s/S to u/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready matie
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Crayats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houfhold Linen, &c. &«.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 i-i dollars.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain ftiirt, made apd {nark*d, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled itto 6 dollars.
A plain fitirt. made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars,.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and marked, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 61-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen incluied.
January 13
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRS i' & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhdt
Old Hock, iu crfes of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler*, in pints and Jialf-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lieet
Ilazlenutg, in facki
Whiting
Copperas f
WlureLead
& Spaniih Brown J
For Sale by
Pe^s
January 4
For bale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and halt barrels
Ditto Herring ami Mickartl
Smoaked Herring in barrels and keg*
Dirto Salmon, by the dozen or (ingle one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and eoarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plainer of Paris, fw the stone
and ground, for manure and flncco-work
December i. sits
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGU-STBMET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selected As son TMEN T of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
< HaberdalLery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, an the very
lowest terKi9 ;
Amongjl <wbicb ar»
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Mailing
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine \
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrella* of the firft quality, assorted
lrifli Linens; very fine, and Table Linens
Marfeilies and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets assorted—See. &c.
O&obcr 26. d
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
A r o. 79, Market street,. Philadkifhia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, i large assortment »f WARRANTED
IVA't CHE S, consisting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecoads, of fnperior
workmanftip and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
feeonds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames j eight day and thirty hoar, brass
works, &c. *
Decembet 12, 1796.
WM. HAT DON,
Drawing-Master, from London,
Where he has studied several years under one of
the mo ft eminent mailers in that science, attends
young Ladies and Gentlemen at tfceir refpeflivehemeS.
Hi: terras are 6 dollars per month for attendance three
times per week. Likewise all kinds of ornamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, &c. taught on the above
terms. A liae dircfUd ta W. H. left with the Editor
of this oazette> will be immediately attendedjto. ~
eoaw
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJlreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave ta solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an ex ten five assortment of the
Mofl Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable for the season.
At this fliop Gentlemen can be furuiftied witbthe feed
materials, and have theai made up in the nested and moit
Fashionable manner, and on the fhortcft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
punctual to then).
Nevember 10. wi
[Volume XL
in khds
PETER BLIGHT.
I
dimNew Theatre.
The Entertainments of the •'Now Theatre will be
•postponed 'till Monday, the 30th Inft. on account of
the preparations nccefl'ary f'»r the Historical Play of
COLUMBUS.
College-Hail.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNELL
Ref(jedlf'illy informs the Public, that
THIS EVENING, Monday, Jan. 13, at 7 o'clock.
Will be delivered, *
(First part)
The Death of Julius Caesar.
Anthony's Funeral Oration, (recited)
The effefis of Ai thony's Oration conGdered.
The Death of Cicero.
The Death of Brutus and Caflius.
(second part)
Edwin and Angelina
Elegy in c Country Church Yard,
(third part.)
The Deserted Village, ( rlt part)
TO-MORROW EVENING, Tuesday, January 24,
Will be delivered,
(first part)
Beauty and other pleasures of Taste.
On the Means of Improvement in Tlite, including
felefliorn from Dr. Blair.*
( SECOND PART)
The Choice of Hercules, or
The Triumph of Virtue,
(third part)
Ode to Truth,
Sitsn's Address to the Sun,
Ode to Madness,
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, juII. at the Library ;
at rnr. M'Elwee's looking-gfefs-flore, No. 70, S. Vourih
ftreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Beokfeiler, Market-ftrcet—
Half a dollar each.
J
Admiflion tickets for Children (a quarter of a
dollar each) to be had at either of the above places.
NOTICE.
Persons having Goods on board the Ship Persever
ance, James Williamfon, mailer, bound from Ham
burg t« this Port, and lately put into New-Yerk,
where the Vefiel is discharging, will please apply to
THOMAS and JOHN KETLAND. *
Philadelphia, Jan. ji, 1797, tf
Loft or Miilaid,
At the Bank of the United States, Joseph Higbee's
Note, dated 29th December latl, lor twelve hundred
dollars, payable at 60 days to Nathaniel I.ewis & Son.
Whoever may find the fame will please return it to said
Bank, or to the fubferibers, who will allow a reward."
Payment being barred, it cannot be of «fe to any
other person. NATHANIEL LEWIS & SON.
January j. J. ii, Jt
FOR SALE,
A yery Valuable Eitate,
CALLED T WIT T E NH A M, situate in the
townlhip of Upper Derby, andconutyof Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Phiiad lphia, and hats a mile from the
sew Weftarn road , containing 230 aer«s of excellent
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, aad the reil arable of ths firft quality. There are
on thepremifesagood two story brick honfe, with 4 rooms
oh a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in froßt; a large frame barn, (ÜbLs
and other tonvenieut buildiEgs; a l'moke-hmife and (tone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of pesch-
The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under jtillage, and.are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which readers it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
Th« situation it pleasant and healthy, and fro:* the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and tht
vicinity to the city, it is very' suitable for a gentlemau'i
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman
dcceifcd. and ofTsrod forfale by
OA- 31.
law Surviving Executor
CONGRESS of run UNITED STATES,
HOtTSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 4, concluded,
The report of the committee of Ways and Means
on the fubjeft of the balances due from indivi
dual States to the United Stai«j being under con
fidcration.
. Mr. laid, from the nature of the ob
jefiioos which had been made, h; (hould have been
as well fatisSedjf the present fubjeft had not at all
been stirred ; but having been moved, i[ ought not
to he abandoned. And thi3 flowed fro(« the nature
' of the ebjt'flicn offered ; bccatife, if they had a
right, they had the moral or phy/icalpower of en
forcing that light. There could be no doubt, if
the money was due, it Slight to be paid, and every
C9ltfideration of expediency pointed out thisasthe
proper tine. He knew he had heard Ihe gentlemen
from New-York, over, and over, and oyer again,
deny that tl|« debt was due ; but, fiippofing this
'to be the cafe, why not make the application ? If
when that application was made, any flaiettid not
chafe to pay' the money, they would ef course Kate
their ebje&ions. But he watT well fatigfie'd they '
ought not to flop at making the demand. They j
K»d been told, though not in dircft dims, in faeh
as were well understood, that we might demand if
we pleased; but, under the present impreffiuns B f
New-York, they would not f»j the debt said to be:
due from them. They had been told by other gen
tlemen that they had not the qjeans to coerce the !
payment. If this were rhe cafe, it was proper they
fhouM lay hands upon, the only thing in their pow
er, which, was their>fliare of the public debt of the-
UOtOlt.
By this, Mr. S.said, it would be fern, that he
meant to revive the quellion of the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr Nicholas). He w? s very indiffer
ent about the fate oT the former motion, bccaufe he
Goldfmilh
Cray
Goldsmith
\Lwwth
Mason
Milton
Penrofe
Mordecai Lewis,
knew there was no rule of order that could prevent
an amendment being introduced in thi committee
of the whole for difcudion. He-said, if they could
get at this money, violating any principle
ol right, they ought to lay hands ou at lealt a debt
of I ,200,000 dollars, for which they were receiv
ing ititerelt ; more especially as this,was a part of
the balance found againll them in the settlement of
the accounts.
Mr. S. said he could drawns analogy between
the -prefeut business and the Britilh treaty, and
wondered any gentleman should think ofintrodu
cing that fubjedl. It might be porfe&ly true, he
said, that it would be improper for one nation to
lay hands on the property of another ; but, was
there any law to prevent him from laying hold of
his antagonist ; and if, said he, the property of
the Hate of New-York is in my hand, and (he owed
me money; where was the propriety of with
my right hand, when theie was an uncertainty of
receiving with the other ? He thought there could
be no objedlion on this ground; but there was an
objection on a(A.oiM*t of the negotiability of go
vcrnment paper. He owned he had fcrupies on
that,fubje&. The gentleman from Virginia hav
ing douhtlefs considered the fubje£t, could perhaps
remove them. In order therefore to bring the
motion before the committee, he moved to add the
following amendment.
«• Relolvtd, that any transfer of the debt of the
United States in the books of the treasury, held
by any of the debtor states, by the settlement of
accounts between the several states and the Unfced
States, or by any person holding evidences of the
said debt, (hall be withheld, until the balauces of
the said states (hall be discharged.
Wr. Nicholas said he did not understand what
fciuple the gentleman from Pennlylv;mia could have
about the transferable property of these debts. He
was fntisfied with refpeft to New-York, and it was
iinpoffible any other corporate body or person cf>uld
be affefled by the motion. he said,
was a sale of the therefore, a denial of
transfer- would completely prevent any person from
being involved in this measure belides the state in
queftmn.
Mr. Gilbert asked the gentleman last up, if there
was ho difficulty of a constitutional kind i:i tke way
of this measure ? If he understood the cqnftitution,
they could not pass an ex post fa£ti> law. Had
they not alreaiy said this paper should be transfer
able ? If so, had they a right to fay it (hauld not
b«transfetable ? Was this the regard which the I-e
---giflature intended ts shew toils own faith? He
trusted it was not.
Mr. Potter objected to the present motion. He
fiid the state ot was a del,tor or not.
She would either (hew berfelf not to be a debtor,
or pay. But to pass this refutation would be to
cenfider them as swindlers. If jt wasa debt, he
was confident they would pay it.
Mr. P. (aid he could not account for the manner
in which the gentlemen from New-Yprk had.mana
ged this business. In one place they fay they have
no authority to adV, and yet in the next moment
they proceed to oppose the refutation to eall tjpon
their State fur the debt, as tf they fnppofed that
unlrfs they opposed the business, their Itate would
be so simple and honeit as to pay, without objfc&i
on. Bat, for his part, until he. kne<fr whether thai
state would pay this debt, or hot, he (houffi believe
they would pay it honorably.
Mr. Williams defended the conduct of the dele
gates ftom the state of New-York.
Mr. Gallatin wiflied the mover to modify the re
foiutinn, {& that it (hould Rot aflcdt any (late to a
greater amount tl«an the debt they owed. For in
stance, the balance against Pennsylvania was about
Bo,coo dollars, but (he had upwards of 400,000
in the funds, and he (hould wi(h that the pioviflon
(hould not reach to a higher sum thsti the Bc,ooo.
He laid he had, however, no fort of view to Penn
sylvania, because he believed (he would make no
obje&ion to fulfil her engagements.
An amendment to this effect was introduced,
when the queflion was put and negatived, 45 to
30.
The original resolution being under confidera
lion,
Mr. Hendeifon said, he should not have rose, but
for an observation of the gentleman from New-
York (Mr. Gilbert.) That gentleman had said,
" That he did not believe thtre was a member of
that committee who really believed the balance
found against the state of New-Yark, to be just."
Mr. H. said, if he were of this opinion he (hould
vote again It the resolution ; but believing, as he
did, that the balances were just, being fcultd by
men of. abilities and integrity, who had no iitfereft
to do OiLer .han right, and as no objection had ever
been made by any of the states against the.balan.
ces, be should think himfelf unfaithful to his con
diluents if he did not vote for it. He begged,
therefore, the gentleman would except him from
the number who did not believe the debt juti.
I Mr. Gilbert allowed the geuileroan might be an
exception.
Mr- believed the debts just, aud deftr
ed to be ane'her exception.
Mr. Potter said one gentleman from New-York
talked of the great exertions of th.it state in the
war, another came forward and said he tfcd nat'be
lievi t.'.ere was a member in thehoufe who believed
in his heart the debt was just. Every Bate in the
Union, he said, might come forward and boast
of what what they had done ; but it would serve
little purpose ; for his part, he-believed New-York
bad done the lesl}, and been benefited more than
any two states. lie wished also to be excepted
from the gentleman's account. He thought the
debt just. 6
Mr. Burgefsread feme ebfervations, which flat
ted the hardihips experiended by North-Carolifia
during tht; war; and as to the debt which she was
laid to owe, (he ceuld not p«y it. Mr. B'» voice
was so low, that it was impossible to take s (ketch
6f his ideas.
Smith (aid he was one of those who could
W»e wished the present fobjcft had not been bro't
before the hoiife ; but being before it, h« was rea
dy to give his vote for the measure, as it was in
cumbent upon them to endeavor to get the balance
paid. Th« gentlemen from New-Y«rk and North-
Carolina had complained of the ir.juft-tce'of the
vebt. The Hate which h« represented, he said,
was a .debtor (late, and they were willing and able
to pay. The -gentlemen from New-York, it ap
peared, were anxious to have the whole business
opened again. Oneijf those gentlemen gave as a
for this, that (lores in the account were
charged more in one state than in another. He
saw no injury in this, as flour might be pnrchafed
in Virginia at 7 dollars a barrel, when m Pennsyl
vania it might be I». This tingle objection (hew
ed-what cavilling would be the confequcnce »f an
opening anew of the accounts.
Mr. S. said it appeared to him that the state of
North-Carolina had less reason to complain, than
any other state in the Union. He did not mean
to fay that they exerted themselves less, and he be
lieved the exertions of New-Ysrk were not exceed
ed, according to her means, by any other state.
An observation, he faiJ, had been mads on the
fubjeft of affnmptions, by a gentleman from North
Carolina".' He meant not to hare ripped up this
bufmefs afreftl ; but since it had been mentioned,
he wuirid fay their debt had been occasioned by too
high an aflumption ; if that had not been the cafe,
they would tiave had to receive a very considerable
futn. How, he a2<ed, did New-York get poflef
fion of her treasure? By theblsod and- of
the whole* in her vacant territory. This was the
way in which (lie became rich, and it was extraor
dinary that a state which had gained so much by
-the revolution, (hwuld be avcrfe from discharging
hei just debt. How they were to get at this debt,
he knew but the,y mull pay. It was doubted
it would not be paid ; but he trusted that a ft»te
famed for her order and good government, would
not refufe to pay a debt so justly due.
When the mode settlement was agteed to,
Mr. S. said, none knew wh<» would be debtors and
who creditors. All acqiriefced in it. Why, then,
talk about going anew into the business, which
might take them a year to fettle the principles
upon which it should be opened ?
He trusted these balances would he paid, as the
reprcfentatives of creditor dates would be very un
willing to lay a direiSt tax upon their conftitueHts
until they were discharged.
Mr. Blount observed, thet he had said so much
on a farmer occasion upon this fubjefi, and know
ing that whatever he might fay would Save no ef
fect upon the decifimi, he meant to have fatiified
himfelf with (hewing by the yeas and nays, that
he had not been cotifeHting to the measure. But
when he heard the gentleman from Maryland ( Mr.
Smith J f;:y " that North-Carolina had less reason
than any other state to complain," it would have
been criminal in him to have been filenl. He had
made the aff.<rtion without a single fa& : it could
not be ttSe. He believed the lAiited States would
not believe it. not Georgia and Sooth-Ca
rolina, Mr; B. asked, defended by North-Carolina?
Could it have been believed that Georgia was a
creditor state, when charged 0:1 the ratio of two
rrprefeotatives when entitled to less than one.
Had nor South-Carolina militia from North Caro
lina in almost every month of the war? Such an
aflertion was one, that, on reflection, the gentle
man w«uld be ashamed of having made.
Mr S>, Smith defended his afTertion, which he
grounded on her debt having been very considera
bly over aflfumed.
Mr. Blount said, if they had no other grounds
of complaint, they (hould have complained of this..
If North-Carolina had had no debt assumed, he laid,
(he would have been a creditor for more than two
millions. She would have funk the debt, inftcad
ps having a debt of more than 430,000 at home,
and under a charge of owing to the United States
more than 500,000 dollars
Mr. Livinglton said it was extraordinary, that
gentlemen Pnould be continually infilling upon the
impropiietv of going into an enquiry whether the
claims in queilion were just or unjull, yet they
themielve9 went into comparisons betwixt the ser
vices o( different states. He would not make any
comparison on the ; bat he would do what
lie thotiglit neceflary, viz. tcilify to the world his
ohje&ious to the present proceedings. He had al
ready taken up so mu.h time of the committee,
whi.-h however had been moltly employed in fruit
less attempts to get the Lufinef> postponed, that he
lliuuld bt unwilling then to trespass long upon their
patience.
1 his bulinefi, he said, originated under the old
confederation. The states agreed upon an order
for the settlement t>f their debts; but in the new
conftitijtiob they entered into a new governmental
compa& for the settlement of tbele debts, so that
it was Sound to be necefTary to'take up the fubjeft.
They therefore found two laws palled. Here, he
laid, was the great evil which New-York had to
complain of. Here, every state who wilhed to set
aside the settlement, fhnuld point. The United
State*, who was a party concerned, pafled a law
appoint, \g commissioners arid prefetibing rules 10
govern the two parties, without any delegation
from the states. AH the states, be fni'd, would al
ways have an interest in throwing a burden upon
one ftaie, and the tnjuftice complained of would ap
pear, if it was (hewn that this was done. It was
not only their interest, he said, to da this, but rules
had i&lually been prescribed which were unjust to
fume ol the states. This hw, he said, was pafled.
New-York had no representative in the business who
had the power to bind her to this new settlement.
1 he accounts of that state were kept clear and te
gulat, with vouchers to eveiy charge ; but in this
law, it was allowed to the commifiioners to receive
accounts unsupported by vouchers, if they (hould
fee proper. He afesd if this were just to those who
had been scrupulously carreft ? If it were just, lie
thanked God he had never learnt or pradtifed upon
such principles of jtiflice. Another rule established
was, how the debt should be divided amungft ihe
different states. The states had prescribed rules,
under the old confederation ; but these were chang
ed by this law. It was now fettled that the rule
of apportionment should be made upon a scale of
population. How this affected New-York had been
(hewn by one of his colleagues (Mr. Williams).
From forty or fifty thousand inhabitants, which
was about their number at the conclusion of the war,
from emigration, they had then one hundicd and
thirty or hundrrd and forty tht ufantl.
asked, therefore, whither thii rule'-wc* jult I It
it was not, how could gentlemen be chained with
advocating unfounded positions, and even have a
week's delay retufed to gain information o:i the
fubjeCt. It was his opinion thef.- arguments had
weight, but perhaps, his opinion might not have
much weight with the committee.
But, setting aside this principle of apportioning
the debt, taking it -for granted, that New-Yotk
contented to the whole, ftili, he said, there were
principles even ia common law, under an award,
which thigbufinefs had been likened to, that would
enable them to attain relief under their complaints.
It was impossible, time had not beer, allowed them
to doit, tobring forward vouchers, otherwise they
(hould have proved that fuck overcharges had been
made by other states, a 4 would have convinced that
House of the propriety of setting aside this settle
ment ; but not having thele voucher*, he would fay
no mere en this head.
The rule* of settlement being changed without
their cenfent, being, ia their opinion, uiyult, it it
was in vain that to the jufticc and equi
ty of the house he woulti appeal 10 the expediency
of thep'refeat meature. The debt, he said, might
be just. He woßld not be underltood as faying,
that the state of New-Yoik considered the debt as
unjust, but he thought (he did. Thinking it un
just, the probability was, (he would reiule to pay
it, and produce her vouchers to the woild, to tliew
that (be ought not/ ta pay it. In what fnuatiou
would the United States then be ?
The state ot New-York was not to e looked
upon as jn individual, it was a sovereign indepen
dent Hale of the Union, persuaded of the injustice
of the present claim, (lie would rclufe to pay it.
Already, laid he, you would have taken one itep,
you have said you would he paid. They had been
told, he said, by the gentleman from South-Caro
lina (Mr. W. Smith) of the advantages which
wnuhj arise to the Union by the payment of this
drbt, by the Hate of New York. He told them
of the Navy, the Forts, &c. it would build. In
deed he put him in mind of the exploits of J)on
Qwixote i for though he had not built himfeif
Wind-mills, he had ereifted himfeif many beautiful
castles in the air, which, he fam.ied, would hav«
their proper effect upon the house.
He hoped the reasons he adduced, if they had
not the cRcSL to reje<ft the prop<»litio», would at
Icaft shew that the itatc of New York had ground
to be dtfTatisfied with the proccedit g,
Mr. Baldwin went over many of the atgumenu
of thelait speaker, and endeavoured to prove
unfounded. He also 'juftifkd the state of Georgi
a's b«ing a creditor state, which he said was owing
to its debt having been aflumcd at 300,000, instead
of 700,000 di'llavs.
Mr. Potter alio notictd the arguments which had
fallen fiom the gentleman from New-York, infif.
tinj(> upo« their iintenablenefs of the objections,
and of the juliice of the claim. -
The qaeftion was put and carried by a eoniider
able mjjority,there being 53 membeis iti fiuor of it.
The committee then rrafe, and on motion being
made fur the house to take up the buiirtds,
Mr. C'hriftie hoped the house would adjoHfa, or
had no doubt the gentleftien from New. Yotk meant
to give them a few more longfpeeche* on the osca
fion, and he did not with then, to Hay to hear
tbera. Adjourned.
D OCU ME NTS
Which accompanied the me.Taf, f the President of
the United Stales to both i-toui'cs ot Cdngrtfs,
January 19, 179;.
Letter to Mr. Piucknej, Minijter Plenipotentiary if
the United States to the Frtnch Republic,
[Continued from Saturday's Gazette.}
With these dispositions, the empress of RufHi
in February 1780, made public the principles on
which fl>e would maintain the commerce of her ful»-
je£b. It is neceflTary here r* recite only two of
them. 1 ft., That all the effe&s belonging to fwb
jc&sof the nations at war ihould be free on beard
neutral vessels ; contraband goods excepted.
That the articles of contraband, (hould be regulat
ed by the 10th and 11th articles of her treaty »f
commerce with Great-Britain, extending the regu
lations of thofc articles to all the belligerent paw
ers.
To enforce the observance of t'hefe principles,
(he gave orders for eqtiiping a confiderabl.: pan of
her marinei
lii Jtily of the fame year, Denmark acceded to
the principles of ihc armed neutrality, and entered
into a convention with Ruflia, for maintaining them,
afTtiming for her rule in determining what articlet
Ihould be deemed contraband, her treaty of com
merce with Great-Britain, eoncluded the i|th of
July, 1670. In the third article of this treaty,
the description of contraband goods is 111 general
terms : " Any provisions of war, as foldieis, arms,
machines, cannon, ftiips, or other things of ng
ceflary use in war." But by a convention conclud
ed at Louden on the 4th of July 1780, between
Great-Britain and Denmark, " te explain the trea.
ty of commerce of 16 jo between the two powers,"
the articles deemed qelttiabnnd aie particularly enu
merated, and among them we fee " timber for
fhip-btiiidinj;, tar, refm, c&pper in (heels, fails,
iiemp and cordagr, and generally whatever ferret
diredly for the equipment of a veflel, unwioughl
iron ancj fir-planks excepted." It is remarkabk
that thele are the vuy atticlc»_ admitted as eontra
bandin the tSt'u article of our treaty of cemmerce
with Great-Britain, and for which admiflion Mr,
Adet declares, " All.the commercial relations-be.
tween Franc# and the United States are entirely
broken.",
But it ii further to be noticed that this coiitcii
tion between Rufiia and Denmark, concluded in
the midfl of the American war, for maintaining
the principles of the armed neutrality, and tu
which oth*r European powers acceded, is explicitly
declared, in the gth article*, to have .been coit.
eluded and agraed on fur the time thai war should
lafi+ ; though it was to serve as a basis to future en
gagements; which cir;-wn(lances might render no-
* Hist. armed neutrality, page 77.
f Marten's Treaties, volume *, page 103.c:,Tary, on account of new naval wars in Europe.
An 1 with the la't r view, the king of Sweden
manifelted the iitmoft {ulicitude left the war thsuld
be closed. without the intervention of the neuual
powers. He therefore was urgent -that the em
press, with all the parties to the maritime conven
tion " *should propafe to the belligerent powers
the eftablilhing of a congress, in which the differ
ent concerns both of the powers at war, and of
the neutral (tares, should be examined and termi
nated." And these concerns he afterwards men
tions to be " the pacification, and thi fettling of a
maritime code of laws objects truly impor ant,
and meriting all the solicitude manifefted on the
occafioH by the king.
But these fleps of the king «f Sweden serve as
additional proofs thVit the principles of the armed
neutrality were not confideieJ by the parties to the
maritime convention, as fandttoned by the exilting
law of nations. For permanently to eftabliih those
adorned principles, by introducing them into a ma
ritime code, was obvinufly the influential motive
with the king tor desiring a congress, at which
such a code might be fetded with the assent of all
the nations of Europe. But this pr'tjeft did\ not
fucL-eed : no congress was formed : the belligerent
powers made,pease at different periods, and with
that War ended the maritime convention. This na
nation has more reason t« regret than our own, as
well becauft the principles in question refpeft some
very valuable portions of our xports, as because
our disposition and our policy preserving us in peace
such an extended liberty of commerce would prove
highly advantageous to ui as carriers for the pow
ers at war. T
We have seen then, that the law of nations, the
marine laws of France, her own treaties as well as
those of other nations, and even the fyftfin of the
armed neutrality, incontcltibly establish these prin
ciples, That enemies goods on board neutral ves
sels, are rightful fubjedts of capture Snd condemna
tion ; and that timber and other articles, for the
equipment of (hips, are contraband
of war: and, therefore, that the admiflion of these
principles, in the treaty between the United States
and G ,fat Britain, not being a grant to her of any
right (for 111 what feufe could we be fatd to give
what (he before pofleffed ?) furnifhes no just ground
of ofiVtiee to France. In what sense too can the
United States be (aid to have " re/used to other
" nations a right" which they and we voluntarily
md mutually agreed to renounce ? Or how are we
chargeable with " partiality in favour of England,"
because we do not take arms to compel her also to
renounce it ?
6ut Mr. Adet, (till relting on the idea that not
to compel Great Britain to renounce, ')) to grant her
a right, seems to imagine that we lhall attempt to
obviate his complaints, by faying ,l That France
•' having the right, by her treaty of 1778, to
«' enjoy all the advantagas in commerce and navi
«• gation which the United States have granted to
«' England, is not injured by the ftipulaticiwg of
«• the treaty of 1794 (with Great Britain) tela
" tive to contraband of war} as they become com
" raon t» her."—But w« shall fay no (uch thing.
The 2d article to which he refers has no relation to
this fubjedt. Had vie granted any particular_/a<iw
to Great Britain, or to any other nation, in rclpedt
to commerce and navigation, we teadily admit that
by this article France would be immediately en»
titled to the fame. But in regard to contraband
ot war, we have granted nothing, and. therefore, un
der that article, France can claim nothing.
Under the influence of present and temporary
interests, the very nature of the ftipulatisns be
tween France and the United States on the fubjedl
of free commerce and the limitation of contraband,
seems to be forgotten. They took for the bafts of
their treaty " the most pcrfed equality and reci
" pracity"—would they then conspire to their
own hurt"? Would they volunurily ami mutually
stipulate for injuries ? Or for advantages ? Ceitain
ly the latter ; and both confidcred the agreement
jeciprucally advantageous which secured to each, in
its turn, the freedom of commerce provided by the
rules, that free (hips (hould make free goods,—and
that timber and naval ftorcs (hould be cxcludtd from
the lift of contraband.
Connected with this fubje6£ is what concerns the
article of provjjtons. Mr. Adet fays, that " iftei
« 4> having allured to the Englith the carriage of na
« val (lores, the federal government wi/bed to as
•« fnre them that of meals } ift a word, it defirtd to
u have commerce only with England. Thus it fti
•• pulafes by the 18th article, that the American
" veTe's laden with grain, may be seized unfertile
« frivolous pretext, that it is extiemely difficult to
»' define the cases wherein provisions, and otherar
*» ticlc.i, which are generally excepted, could be
*• classed in the lift of contraband at" war."
There are so many exttaordinaty affertionsk in
Mr. Adet's notes, those in the above paragraph ex
cite no surprise. The federal government is con
flicted' of citizens who have a comipon interest
with their fellow citizens of the Uaited Slates.
That common interest has a peculiar relation to
commeice, on the freedom and extension of which
the public revenue and the general prosperity of
our country chiefly depend. Will it then be be
lieved that the government ivi/hed this commerce
to be rejlrutne-l, particalarly the commerce in meals
which compose the molt valuable part of our ex
ports ? Especially will it be believed that the go
vernment deftred that our citizens might have com
tnerce only with England ? Let tele general ftnfe
of eur fellow-eitizens answer these charges. Eel
the great mass of our commercial brethren answer
they whose enterprize traverses every sea and ex
plores every region of the globe, to extend their
gainful tra' e ; citizens whose commercial adven
tures to France and her colonies have risen annual
ly to many millions ; adventures by which many
have haz tided their credit and their fortunes. Yet
among all eur citizens none have bee* more felici
tous to form a commercial treaty with Britain ;
pone more decided in approving that which has
been made.
For the reasoning of our own government on this
fubjed 1 beg leave to refer you to my letter of Sep
tember 12th, 1795, written by the Prefident'# di-
* liift.Arm. Neuf.p. 147—15®-
r eftnn to Mr. Monroe* Therein it wits attempt.
( Ed to (how the necejjity and our right of forming
that treaty with Great • Britain, and I h )pe it will
appear to you that the i-onclufi >n is there fairly
draww, that even the 18th article, as it refpefts
pro-ifions would operate favourably to France.
Before the treaty with Great Britain, her crui
sers captured neutral vessels bound to France with
provisions. She afTertcd, that is certain cases, pro
visions were contraband of war; confequeutlv, that
she might lawfully capture'and confifcate fu'h pro
viiions. We opposed the principle and (he practice.
Britain infilled on her right. In this dilemma, it
was agreed, by the treaty thar whenever provitions,
becoming contraband by the law of nation , <h»uld
be captured, they should be paid for witn a reafon
ahle mercantile profit. This stipulation, without
admitting the principle, by securing the American
merchants from loss in cafe of capture, would cer
tainly tend to promote rather than to difcouiage
adventures in provifiotis to France. »
But an this treaty hai been the fubjeft of ferioui
Complaint on the part of France, it is important to
enquire with what foundation the complaint is
made.
I might pass over the unworthy infinn'ations of
the miniftcrj that the treaty was entered into by us
iti order to ajjure advantages to the Engli/b, and to
furnifh our own government with a reply to the claims
of b ranee, and preremptory motives for refufals to
accede to them y. that the trui object of the negotiation
was incejfantly di/guifed under specious pretexts, and
csvered with the vie/ of di/Jimulation. These inlinu
ations have been indiscreetly addreffedlto the peo
ple of the United States. Tliey will gain no belief.
Lt may, however, be ufeful for you to be truly
informed on thil fuHjeft.
The PreGdent's meflage to t!»e Senate on the
16th of April 1794, does not dcclare (as Mr.
(Adet a flats) " that Mr. Jav was fsnt to Loo
don only to iJbtain a rcdrefs yf wrongs." The
President fays that Mr. Jay's million woul«i an.
nounce to the world " A folioitude for a friendly
adjuftmerit of our complaints," and that " going
immediately from the United States, such an en
voy weuld tarry with him a full knowledge of the
existing temper and fei.Gbility of our country;
and thus be taught to vindicate our rights with fum
nefs, and to cultivate peace with sincerity." And
fliall the purfnit of either of these objeifts be de
nied to us ? What were our r»mplaiuls ? The most
urgent regarded the fpolijtions on our commerce,
and the inexecution of the .article of the treaty 6f
peace refpeiting the potts. With the latter was
connected the Indian war, with which we hsd
been harrafied tot so many years ; and with the
former, the injury or rui(> of our merchants and
the ronftquent exienfive damage to agriculture.
Thefir the molt prominent objects of the
miflisn, were of course most observable, and most
talked of; ?nd without them the miflion probably
would not at that time have been contemplated.
But had wt no other " complaints?" Did not
the imprefiment of our fcamen, like the fpoliationa
on »ur commerce, excite an univetfal complaint?
Had we never manifeftedout unealinefi \at Great-
Britain's avoiding a commercial treaty I Was it not
even a fuhjed of complaint and u proa h ? Was
not the inducing her.to enter into fui_h .-ftteaty the
objtft of divers measures agitated u, eungtrfs ?
Had not a commercial treaty with Great-Biirain
been earneitly fought for tr»m the oonclufion of
the war t« the time of Mr. Jay's miffiun ? Hjjw
also could, Mr. adjuitmg Lhc'primary ob
jects of his million, bolter prove the lincerity of
our pacific difpofiuon and more eflv£hially "-cnlti
vate peace," than by forming ai rangeme»t9calcu
lated to extend and protect our tn.de, to promote
good neighborhood and a friendly and mutually be
t.eficial intercouife ; by pref iioing a previous de
mand of jufiice and fatislafliun to haity reprisals,
which naturally lead to war ; aijd by agreeing on
other regulations to prevent difpules, or to adjuit
them when they should arise ? 'All these objects
then, and whatever else would be the means of
" cultivating peace" were clearly comprehended in
the Prefidenljs meflage.
[To be continued.]
WILMING i ON, J nuary 18.
DELAWARE ST4TR LEGISLATURE.
IN SENATE.
[Extract from the Journal.J
Thmfday, Jan. 12, 1797.
Resolved, ,
That a refpedtfal addrefi be presented fnJm the
Senate and House of Representatives, to the Pre
sident of the United States, upon his intended re
tirement from office, and that the following form
thereof be adopted :
TO GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of ihe United States.
Si R,
The Senate and House of Representatives of the
State of Delaware, cannot view with insensibility,
your contemplated retirement from the firft office
of your country, to the retreat of private life.
Upon such an occ.afion, to be lilent, and to with
hold the mod cordial expression of our affedion,
refpeft and veneration for your character, would be
as ungrateful ta you, as it would be difhouorable
to ourselves.
It ii in attempting therefore to do ju A ice to ear
feelingi, and to discharge a patriotic, duty, that we
prelcnt this address as a tribute of gratitude and
homage to your virtues.
More than twenty years have elapsed since you
left the Civil Council's of America, to undenake and
sustain the more difficult and perilous duties of the
chief military command. The seven yean cortflift
tha* ensued, mult have been to you a gloamy series
of fcven fufferings, except as it wa«. relieved
by temporary viftorirs, and the plcafing hope that
the exertions of your c*un(Vy, and the aids of hea
ven would crown your labors with fticccfs. 1
At the clufe of the important coated, we view 4
you in the command of a disciplined, affe&ionate,
and admiring army ; and from the example of o'
ther conquerors, we might have trembled for the
fate of our country in ihe apprehensions that its
I'rotefter would become its tyrant. But happily
for ihc U. State* and honorable for yourfelf and the
clnraser o f htiniirt natnre, t!:e fceliivjt of the coh
qutfror we.e loIt" in tlmfe of the patriot, and the in
! mtions of ambition were tepreffed by the tri
iimoli of virtue.
1 lie glorieus fpefilacle wasprefented to the xVprld,
"■ a popular, powerful, and fuecefsrul general at
clueving the emancipation of his country, and then
•resigning his command to an unarmed republic—
voluntarily retiring from the honors and emolu
ments of office, and receiving in return the tribute,
not of pwwer, hut of gratitude.
We view you afeeorid time, in obedience to the
unanimous voice of America, relinquishing the en
joyment of your beloved retirement, ana accepting
the chief raagiltracy of your country, in order to
add character, credit and energy to its government.
Tliat character, credit, and eneigy, you have as
sisted in so fining and ffcuring to our government;
and we hope they will be preserved, as well to
perpetuate the memory of your virtues, at the hap
pirtefs ©f your fe'lew-citizens.
We address you, fir in the name and on the be
half ot the citizens we represent. Wc know that
they ignite with us in viewing your abilities with
refpe£t— your virtMes with veneration—and your
services with gratitude ; and in soliciting from hea
ven for you, every blessing which can insure your
happiri *1 here and hereafter. v
On motion, the above address was unartimoofly
adopted, and sent to the House of {leprefentatives
tor their concurrence.
Philadelphia,
MONDAY EVENING, JANUARY » 3 , 179;.
A Jhort ejfay on the improvement of tutrn out landi.
One way of encouraging agriculture is te point
out the way to improve worn out lands ; which
may be done by feeding all such lauds with clover
as are left out. I have been in the praflice of cul
tivating clover more than forty, years, i planted 14
acres of India* corn on a worn out piece of land,
which produced about five bushels to the acre ; it
was then sown with oats and clover. The oats
were but a common crop for such land j the clover
on the following year was good beyond expediti
on, and which yielded a clear profit of 10!. the
acre in feed, belides the feed in the spring. This
year I received as large a crop from the adjoining
land cultivated nearly in the fame manner.
From these experiments, I conclude, that everv
acre of land left out unsown witli clover mull lofc
from il. los* to iol. frona what it would produce
if it was sown with clover. There arc two forti
of red clover—one fort I call the native American,
the other the Englilh red clover. The native red
clover will grow double the length of the other, but
it is later in the bloom by about a month, and the
feeds o) b»thare fomuch alike, as not to bediftin
guilh'd from each other. Some may fay how then
dial! we be furetoget the right fort to make a trial
—all theani'werl lhall give to this is, there i» now
at Mr. Howards in Market-ilrefct, N°. 95, a small
quantity to be difpoled of. 1 have 140 acres of
worn t>ut land lately town with clover ; only 5 a
cres of the native fort, but expedt to sow about 70
acres myrcofit in the spring.
JOHN LAMBERT.
Salem county, New-Jersey.
COMMUNICA TION.
Tlie theme of gratitude, which the French gtvern
meat and our Jacobins hive with so much delicacy
reiterated in our ears, might luve b«en parted over
with the contempt which a generous spirit forever
feels when favo.s are converted into bonds and fetters,
had not the wo.thy part/of the community sonceivtd
that what was so very often urged was really founded
in truth. It is time the deluflon (hould be removed —
it is time that the freemen of* America should knsw
the extent of f reach kintlnefs ; benaufe the draft upon
our gratitude is upon the independence of the country,
and riles and is modified prccifely as it suits the necef-
Gtits of our tvpuld-be majlers. When through their
minifttr they demand that we (hould repeal laws, re
■verfe judicial decries, and annul treaties, and to in
duce us to do this, tell us a canting story of the gra
titude we owe them, and the obligations they have
conferred so dtftnterejledly—in justice to ourfelvss and
our posterity, and impelled by the sense of our real in
dependenae, we mufttnd will examine into this claim
upon our gratitude—we roust look into the account,
t® fie -whether what is so insolently demanded of our
virtue, is not a pretext played upon our ignorance,
or a courtly trick offered to our fears. The lata com
munication from George Washinoton will let
the people fee!
By this day's MaiL
RICHMOND, January H,
FIRE!
Yeßerday afternoon a flr« broke eut in thii city
in the bouse occupied by Dahiel Timniingi, Tal
low chandler, on'the eafl fide of tbe bridge eppo
fite Samuel Ejje'a (tone bouse ; it immediately com
municated to the adjoining two story house, both
of which were'eonfumed—but by the great exerti
ons of citizens i» cutting aaaythe house of David
Loggan, (hoe.maker, on the weft, with the affift
a»ce of tHe engine, the fire wa« got iinder wijhont
further injury. Too mif«h credit canaat be giveu
to every description of our eitiaenl, who instantly
rtpaired from different parti of, the city to the
scene, and rendered every firvice in their power.
BOSLON, January 14.
We are informed, and from an authority which we
rely on, that Mr. JefTtrfon has written to Mr. Mad
ison on the iubjeft'of the late eledlion ; and given
it as his opinion, that Mr. Adams was the only person
who ought to have been elefied Prcfidcnt ; and furth
er, that he 16 the only person under n horn he would,
accept the Viee-Prcfidency. If ©ttr information is ac
curate, the acceptance of Mr. J. will be unqueftioaa
ble. —The event, we hope will
v" Unite the roles, red and white, together.
That on one Icind and friendly flalk,
They both may fiduviih."
Ninety-four 24 pound cannon, were a fevlr day* fine*
proved at th*, Hope Furnace, nctr Providence, by
Ca;>t of rVf Federal army. They a!!-bore the
proof ; and art intended for the frigates. now hunting.
. A WJiitcftown papj-, «f Dec. ai, fays, " For thir
ty-eight days past, we have rint seen twenty-four hours
pass withnut experiencing a mow storm. The fno* is
now 30 inehes deepi on a level. The sleighs move
briflcly.*'
The flrediflidns lafl fall, of a hard wiftter, have al
ready been fully Verified. Until within these two or
three days cold, the rrioft extrerhe, haß been experi
enced.— The therrhsnreter of j?aret«iieit has been seve
ral days from 6 to 11 bslow o ; and a similar
c»!d has been felt in all the ftatcs we have heard from.
The lakes and rivers are frozen up 1 and our market*
are daily visited with sleighs from Canada. Our har
bour is completely blockaded, and business fufFers
much.
January, 16.
Tuesday last, No. 11,000 drew the Prize of ao,oo<>
dollars, in the fourth class of Harvard College Lottery.
Wednesday the abo»c Lottery finifhed drawing,
when No. 9847 being the lift drawn No. is entitled to
s>ooo dgllars.
NEW-YORK, January *r.
The particulars of the lals of the (hip Barrington,
Capt. Stewart, together with the fate of the pafTengers
and crew, being not a little interesting, mull be accsp
table to the public ; We sow lay them before the pub
lic, as related by Captain Stewart himfelf.
Captain Stewart, of the fliip Barrington, on his p&f
fage from Leith to this port, wis, oa th» 13d of Sep
tember lali, wreck#d *n the Isle of Sable—the veflel,
with chief part of the cargo, loft; -he Captain and
crew, with eleven paflengers, were left on this deso
late Island—their d.eftiny could not be foretold—it
proved to be truly diitrefiing ! Being placed oh this un
inhabited spot, they faon erected a tent ajd a lrnall
hut, the latter of which was occupied by two young
ladies, two married women, and three children, who
were paflengera Duringtheir stay jiere which'wa*
about eleven weeks, they ecsEoraically flibfilled on pro
vilioas saved from the wfecki'
They had rigged the long on the nth of
October, the mite and four seamen set fail for Halifax,
where they arrived after a very disagreeable patTageof
five days. The governor of that place, on hearing the
circumftaHCes, immediately dispatched a (mall fchoon*
er, with provisions, &c. for their relief—and in eight
or nine days arrived iri fight of the unfortunate fuffer
ers, but the wind blew such a hurricane, that is wa»
/our days before they could fend boat on ftiore—
the wind having abated, they got fcveral articles, be
iides their bedding, on hoard the schooner. Distress,
alas, >.vas now added to distress ! Far while the fch®«»-
er's boat, with three of her men were on shore, flie
parted her cable and went off with only two men on
board — flie however providentially got back to Hali
fax. Her arrival and ill success were hardly announc
ed, before Governor Wen'worth ordertila ftsondvef
feLforthe fame truly humane parpofe. After a feW
days fail ftie reached the isle—it was a week after be
fore they could get on fliore, they at lail efleiled a land
ing, and after ftirmounting thegreateft difficulties, g®t
all on ooa'd ; soon after which, they were neceffitateA
ta cut the cable and run from that dangerous situation*.
After a stormy and difagreeahle pifTage of 14 dayi,
they arrived at Halifax, where all handi and hearts
were open to receive them, and afford them every re
lief. The Governor's kindness and attention on tbi#
occalion hasr:fi*Aed on him true hoiior. And we at*
also happy in obfervirig, that the hospitality and good
nef» of Mr. Laurence Hartflior»e, merchant, of tba£
place, was net left conspicuous—he took the two
young ladies into his own hsufe, and paid them every
possible attention; which was not confined to them— *
hit solicitude far the comfort of thera all, will net b*
forgotten
Captain Stewart, feii crew, r.nd pafiengerj, aftsr re
maiuing at Halifax about thr?e weeks, took their pas
sage in the fliip New-York, Capt. Clark, for this portj
where they arrived in good health on the 12th ialtaut'
For the MINERVA.
Mcffrs. Printers, __
By inferring the following in your Minerva, vau
wilt oblige a cttnftant reader.
Yesterday the 18th inft. at 1 2 o'cloek, a respec
table number of gentlemen attended agreeable to
invitation, in tfoe City Hospital, several operation#
of Dr. Elifha Perkim, by meant of liis invented
Metallic Point*. The fame vtftre performed with
lurpriiing and fatisfa&ory fuccefi on different pa
tient* laboring under Various disease*.
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE.
MR. RICKETTS takes the liberty of announcing
to his t'riendi and the public, that to-merrow evening
there will be a variety 6f performances, at the Pan
theon BY DESIRE OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES, the particulars of which
will be exprefled in the bills and advertifcmenu of the
day.
January aj
The Stockholders of the Pennsylvania
Population Company
Are requested to meet at the C ompany'i Office, No.
53, North Fourth-flreet, on Wednesday, the ift of
February .next, at n o'elock, for the purpose of taking
into consideration the proceedings of the Company, and
of making further affelTments on the lhares, in order
to defray the expenccs of the Company agreeable t#
the loth, Article ofjhe Constitution.
By ardir ®f the Board.
SOLOMON MARACHE, Secretary.
January, 13d, 1797. dtFeb.t.
A Pocket-Book.
LIFT, yefttrday meriting, at, or LOST coming
from the lower ferry inn to Philadelphia, a Red Mo
rocco Pocket-Book, containing one teii dollar bank
note, sundry papers, lettfcra, iuftrumenti, and two
ptonoiflory n»tes, drawn by C. Jackson & Co. dated
lit Noveinbrr, 1796, at day», for 505 dollar*
each, and indorsed by the person in whose favor they
are drawn. Any one who will deliver the bdok with
the papers, letters and notes, to the printer hereof,
(hall have the montfy for their trouble, without aty
queftiotis a&ed.
Ni B. The papert can be of no use to »ny one but
the owner, the meant, of negociating them being fiopi
ped.
January 13
Philadelphia and Lancaster
Company,
January 6, 1797.
At a meeting of the President and Managers, a di*
vidend of fi*e dolkrs per (hare, was doclared for the
last half year, whith will be paidtti the Stockholders,
or their representatives any time after the sift of this
month.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treaftirer.
Ju. «<
J.'
Turnpike
1»"4 V,Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, Sate Drntift to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Acadrmy of Surgeons at Pari#,
Keeps a complete sflbftHiint of every thing necessary
to be nfed forthe
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
alio Tumifhes Brtifhes and foft Sponges.
He lives in Chefiiut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve
Fourth flreet.
November 26,
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sea fan,
j _ '
And fed on clover hay at the Subfcribcrs place, 12
12, lies on the Bristol Road, wheVe good Itahling is pro
vided, and great tare will be taken of thon
Nov. 13.
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 23d OAober,
a Dark MULATTO named MOSES; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mi.sod green
coat, wrth a green velvet cape *nd oval yellow buttoiu ;
a ltriped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boot® much worn. It is probable he may change
his n&me and dress. He has been accustomed to driving
a carriage, anwaiting. The above reward will be
paid for fecunng him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 *lm2awtf
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOCJGALL will open'his school on Mon-
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant ISew Ball Rooms,
111 Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets,
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new c-otillioas, he means t>o
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft pra&ifing ball to be on Tuesday «-
yening, the firfh of November,4nd to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, No. 134, Market
flreet. «
oa. 17
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET
GEORGE DAVIS announces to hi* proteffional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS 5s now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume to an .entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forfeveral years paA have in so dilhngutlbed a
manner recommended them 10 notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the most extensive collec*
tion cf the latest Englifti and -Irtfb Editions ever imported
into this country, are pablifhed, and will be delivered gratis
on application.
Orders addressed to G. D. in writing from any distance
fhalJbe pun&uaily attended to.
A number of i RUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient .LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
ov.B. • ta&f3»
City cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTERY, Nfo. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent > 20,000 dollars, & >
dwclling-houfo, 3 cash 30,000, are J s°>ooo
1 ditto 15,000 & cafls 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,040 iq.ooo
I ditto 5,000 & eafh 5,009 10,000
I cash prize of 10,000
* do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
Jo do. i,®oo - • ' 10,000
40 do. 500 - - io,'eoo
00 do. 100 • • 10,000
»oo do. 50 ic,ooe
400 do. 25 • • 10,000
1,000 do. 20 • 20,000
15,000 do. 10 - 159,000
16>739 Prizes.
£3,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
•icket, and the 30,000 the last but C-iE :
And approved notes, u.curing payment in either monsy
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Wafhingto*—
Two beautiful deligns are already fele&ed for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares ; from theft prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner dcfcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neceflary expends of printing, &c w< And the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Usuvertity* to be erected within the city of Wafhingtoij.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finiftied ; and any prize* for which fortunate
numbers are not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be confideredas given towards
the fun 2 for the Univerflfcy ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the e iding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds .given a$ security.
# The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of thfe lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late (Commillioners assisted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are refuelled to undertake this arduous talk
feeond time on behalf ®f the public ; a fufficießt nam
-sir of thele having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
iends to a National University an& the dither federal ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received fr<sm the different parts of the
Continent •as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been feht for lale, the public are allured that the
drawing will speedily commcme, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal oi
th« tickets, has rendered the lnor- fufpenlion indiipenlable.
SAMUEL HLODGBT.
Tieketsnsay be had at the Bank of CoUmbii ; of
James Well & Co. Baltimore; of PesirGilmac, Boston ;
o! John Hopkins, Richmond ; and cf Richard Wells
Cooler's t'errjr. <•
A Valuable and CANDLE Manufactory, firoate
in a convenient part of the city ; ihe works almoll new.
/>n an entiieiy original conftiuttioa, and built of the belt
materials, and may b«? set to work immediately. Perfnns
who wish to purchase, are requested to apply at No 273*
South Second Street. September t». t t f tf
William Sell.
mwt 2 wmthtf.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all pcrfonf, againfl: purchasing from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachau, any portion of the
large, real and perfonaleftates he conveyed away to
bis fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upan the fubjedt by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenaehan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers by
those creditors : a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitteH.
The very ftatcment of the fact therefore must dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindictive." it'originated in a desire to feoure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his jail debts. It was fanttioned by the
advice ot council as a measure nccejfary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advertiiement has been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjuftitiable conduct, not to the fub
fctibers who have merely puWilhed the truth in
terras as mild as the fact would admit, and who
mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of those purchases of which Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently speaks.
tthf
The fubfcnbers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
eaution against purehafing of those grantees or
either of them, and ta extend the terms of it to a
ptirchafe from any other persons (if such there be)
to v»fc«m Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
eouveyaiicts,
it'i Those printers who have been r»quefted to
publish the fir ft Caution, arede£rcd to puklUh th'u also
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted fortbe ease and convenience of merchant!
in general ; hut particularly for those who are ex
tensively concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the couife of the whole year,
for each month feparatively. Aod thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvcnience attendant on
the mode now in use, of felcdting the bills due in
each month from the promiscuous entries of several
months.
At able (hewing the number of days from any day
any month,.to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January ?
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fiK thousand.
two hundred, and fifty dollar®, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, froxi th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollar®, - ,175,000
gj* The Commiflion«rs have taken the Securities fc
quired by the aforefaid a<st for the pun&ual payment oi
the prizes.
The drawing ©f this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as tte Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finifiied, lhall be corifidercd as rclinquifhed for
the benefit ef the Canal, antl appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
A Ma ny £aaory FOR SALE.
C A U T I O N.
WHEREAS very lirge and heavy debts are justly
due and owing from uleflrs. Blair M'Clenacban ana
Patrick Metre, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading under the Srra of Blair M'Glenachan and P.
Moore, and from Blair M'Clenacban in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
•it i« clearly tnd fatisfa<ftorily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Clehacban, of the said firm, has conveyed
away to mr. John H. Hufton, his fon-in law, to his
daughter, mil's M'Clenacban, and to his son. George
M'Clenacban, several large and valuable real estates,
as well a« personal property, in t,he city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their jult debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whomso
ever, against the purchase from the fiid grantees, or
either of them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal property, as tlie most vigorous me^ r ures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the just demands of the Creditors.
By •rder of the Creditors.
Thojnas Fit%fimonss *"} ,
Philip Nickliuy I
Jfaac Vharton> V Committee.
William M'Murtrie, I
Samuel IV* Fijher,
Philadelphia, De«ember 17th* 1796.
TO THE PUBLIC.
(Signed) T. FITZJMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Phtlad. Dei. 21, 1796,
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
To which is prefixed,
Washington Canal Lottery,
N °
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -i Prize of io,oeo dollars, »o,coo
I ditto io,ooo 10,000
last drawn >
Tickets, cach ) J> ooo
6 ditto 1,000
10 ditto 400
ao ditto 100
SS ditto 50
S7S° d ' tto
To be raised for th« Carnal,
5850 Prizes,
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wh. m.duncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Walhicgton, Feb. 11. - $
acth.^
t»wtf
. I
35, 000
6,c00
4, 000
2 4000
2,750
69,008
*6,250
IJJ.OOO
For Salt
By 'private, contruS, a very valuable Efiate, known by
the name »f
C H t\
MOBT delightfully situated on the north bank ofßap
pahanoclc river, opposite the town of Frederickiburg, in
the slate of Virginia, consisting of eleven or fifteen hun
dred acres, as may bell suit the purchaler. There is on
this estate, a large and well biplt brick house, containing
nine commodious rooms, cxclufive of a spacious hall or en
try, ai feet square, two pair of Halts, suitable and conven
ient paflages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine hc~lthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in
every» diredlion over the towns of Frederickfburgh and
Falmouth, and an extensive cultivated country.—The
grounds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleaf
urc end kitchen gardens interspersed with a variety of
fcarcc trees, a choice collection of flowors and floweruig
shrubs, and'ennched by various forts of the following
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, chefnuts, cherries,peach
es, plumb?, ne<flarines, apricots, grapes, figs, rafberries,
gooseberries, ftrawbcrries, and currants; the whale admi
rably v?.ried by turfed slopes which have been formed by
great labour and expence. Bordering upan these im
provements, are several lots, m a highftate of cultivation,
and well let with red clover and orchard grass, from
which three heavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereta are two large and flourifliing orchards ; one
of well chosen peach trees, the other of apple and pear
trees, fele&edfrom the beic aurferies in ihe state. Pro
perly detached from the mansion house axe extensive
roomy offices of every denomination, viz. a Kitchen and
Larier, house-keeper's room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety of purposes, a liora-1 oufe and
lmoke house all of brick, a dairy and l'pring house oiitone.
Stables for thirty horses, an\J coaeh houses for four car
riages. ►Also a large and well planned farm yard, v ith
barn and granary, a cow house, with separate 1 tails for
thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals,
muttons and lambs; extensive Iheds for sheep, and other
arrangements for stock of every description, with a lurge
and convenient receptable for provender, from which tkey
can be furnifhed without being exposed to the inclemency 1
of the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's Ihop,
and quarters fnfficient to accommodate in the best man
ner more than fifty labourers.
The arable lands are f« advantageously divided as to af
ford aa opportunity of making a large quantity of Indian
corn annually, without bringing the field into similar cul
ture oftner tkan once in four years; cenfoauently the
lands may be improved by keeping up the incloiures during
the intermediate years, or may be ueneficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
On the premiie* there is alio a merchant mill with one
pair of beftFrendh burr ftoncs, and one pair of Cologpe;
furnilhed with modem machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired term ol four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
grain for the use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly 1001. more. she mill and miller'shoufe are built of
free stone, within a very small distance of navigation,nfcer
are twoor more valuable llfheries, and a well
aecuftomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
Frederickfburg. The land contains inexhaustible quarries
of free i tone near to the river, is plentifully l'upplied with
remarkable fine water and poflefUs a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be eonfiderably increased. The road* are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel andfociable. In fait, exclusive ol
an improveablo and well condii oncd farm, the value and
emolument inseparably connected witn a mill, ferries,
fiiheries and quarries eligibly fltuated ; the profits ariing
from an ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetables
of all forts asto|be fully equal to the demand in market,
there might be detailed many other advantages, apper
taining to the fertility of these lands, which the subscriber
conceives itunacceffary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be found to be a complete,
plcafant and healthy rcfidepce, pofi'efling beauties and
conveniences firfficientto attracft the attention of any per
son desirous of becoming a purchaser.
The motive which induces the fulifcriber te offer for
sale an estate so Angularly beautiful and advantageous, is
a desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more ease attend to his interests in the neigh
bourhood ef that city.
The purchaser may bfc accommodated with a few Saves
in families, either for plantation or domestic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balance
made easy, the debt being properly l'ecured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
Chtt'aam, (Vug.) Dec. 19, 1796. nth—iawim
TO BE SOLD,
A PLANTATION, in thetown of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucester, and ftateof New-Juifey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a kigh Hate of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover.
On laid plantation there is a genteel two-dory brick hoe ft,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
hsufe. Ihe garden is large, and contains a good collec
tion of the belt kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the orchard consists of about three hmidred grafted apple
trees. Any person inclined to purvbafe said preniil'es,may
he informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
July 29
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square. Mai ket Sirtfet.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his fmcere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his re»'idcuce hi thi> JC.ty, and
fkttershirafelf that the success of his etfoits, in the numerous,
obstinate 3nd dangerous diseases in in which he has
been confuted, together with his moderate charges, will (e
---ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public, at large
that his spacious and commodious piemifcs, erc&cd #or the
purposes above described aie open for the reteption of pupils
of either sex, who wilhto beinitruttcd in the Art of Riding
and the tight method of governing their horfcs, so as to ride
them with eefe, elegance, and (afcty—their horses will be
carefully and expeditiously broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to: he will of the riders ; the natural powers
whicn arc shut up in them, w rlibe unfolded bv art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
aM thofc beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully bestowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every difor'ier to which the.horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by lengand repeated experience.
1 he utility of the above institution has never been qneftion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
flud will manifeft, and T. Swann as tbehitt cftablifher of
the veterenary art, fohcit? a*d relies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
biingit to perfection. The idea of a (übfeription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wilh to
promote the jnftitution—the amount of each fubfcrip;iop to
be returned by services in any of the departments, he protciTes,
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his haud bill. Such
fubfeription is now open, and the signatures of many refpcil
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his
iriends and such l,a*lies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he ihall in a few dap take
the liberty of waiting upon them and lolicking their support
and prottftion.
N B. Hoi fes are properly prepared for those Ladies and
Gentlemenwhe wilh to be inftrutted.
N«v.
T H A M,
tih&f.
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that prc|»ofalu will be re
ceived ac the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firlt day of March next eu
fuing, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firfl day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firil day of May, 1798, both
days iricluAve, at the places and within the diftri&o here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at
Pjcfque lfte; at Sandulky Lake, , and on Sandulky
Rivter; at Detroit; It MichiHmackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin, at Pittsburgh j at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hani iltdn ;
at Fort St. Ciair; at Fort-J«fFerfon ;at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Maflac ; at any place from Fort Mailac
to the soUth boundary of the United States oh the river
Mifhfippi ; at Fort Knox \ at Ouiatanon.
If iupplies (haUbe required lor any pofls or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies ihall be fur*
liifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be'hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Coatra«s>«r.
Ihe rations to be fupplicd are to conftli of ,the sol»
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounccs of bread t flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of ru#n, brandy or whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of falt.~\
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( . , ,
Two pounds of Soap, ( P er hun * e,i raUo «
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be fur'nifhed in fach quantities, as that
there shall at all times during; the said term, K fulScieat
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimnckirac, Dt*
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month a in
advance, and at each of the other post.«, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good an d wholesome
provisions, if the fame fl*all be required. If is 10 *be unj*
der flood, that the Ct>ntra&or is to heat the ex* nee and
rifle of iffuirgthe fuppli«3 to the troops at each and
that all losses fuilained by the of uW cr.c.. /,or
by maans of the troops of the United States, (he i be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or deiiroyed, on.
the depositions of two or more persons of creditabl' cha
ra&ers, and the certificate of a cornmilTioticd officer, as
certaining; the circumstances of the loss, and amouat
of the at tides for which oompenfttion lbali be claimed
OLIVER WOICOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-Jlreef.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an A& of
the Legtflature of Penflfylvaftla, pasTed daring the !aft
leflion, for buildif.g a Stone Bridge over the River
Scnuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Bcks. r Dollars.
1 Trizc of 20,00® Dollars - 20,000
1 do. of i©,ooo do. • - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. . - 15,000
4 do, of 2,00q do. - - 8,000
ao do. of i,©oo do. - 20,000
39 do. of 50® do. - - 19.500
80 do. of 200 do. ... 16,000
tOO do. of 100 do. - 23,00®
300 do. of 50 do. . 15,00 a
1 do. of 5&0 do. to be paid the poficf- f
for ©f the firif drawn no. { ■®°°
of 3,000 do. to be patd pofTeflors >
of the five last drawn nos \ x £> ooa
1$ do.
5 do -
9,400 do. o
10,054 Prizes'
Blanks
30,000 Ticket* at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prises fliall be paid fifteen days after the drawing it
fiuithed, upon the demand of a pofietlor of a fortuiate
>ick.et, fubjtfl to .a deduflion of twenty per cent. The
Drawing w ill commence as soon as the Tickett are difpof.d
ot, or pcihaps sooner. of which public notice will be r ven.
Philip Miller, Peter Kcrjhncr, William IVilnarr,
Jufeph Hit'Jler, Jutes ■Diemcr, Thomas Dundas,
James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Craejf,
iebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, >796^
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. », to be had at the
above office, where she earliuft information of the draw
ing of the Washington Nc* a, and Patterfeu Lottery
are raceivcd, and check books for examination and rcgif
teringare kept.
O (Sober 7
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
N®. 63 South Third fWeet.oppofite the national new Bant"
SAMUEL M FR.4UNCES and JOHN VAN REEd!|
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FR.MINCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and
fell on commifHon every species of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. .<£
-SJMoney procured on deposits, &c. &c. 'all kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatneTsand
difpatchaccounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
moil corredl manner. Conllant attendance will be given.
They solicit a fliare of the public favor ; they «re deter
mined to endeavour to ckferve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
, JOHN.VAN REED.
I'kilad. August 17, 1796. m&wtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Skcokd street.
TICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and rc filtering, for
the City of WaQiington, No. i, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information whert
tickets are to be had, ,and prizes exchanged for undraw#
tickcts., A complete lift of all the prizes in the,late New*
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School' Lottery, for
examination.
The liibfcriber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wife co purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houfcs, Lands,
See. or to obtain money on depolit of property.
Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dolhrs each, whioh will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufl 18, 1796. mth
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO]
—No. 119 —
CHESSU T-S TREET,
[Price Eight Dollon ptr Annum-}
141,000
500,0©©
aawtf