mszm of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number i i.3
M s. G RATTAN
Refpe<3fn!lv informs her friends, and the public in
genera!, that on Toefday the icth day of January,
file proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftrc-f,
A ' inen and' Muslin Warehoufc.
Book .vTuflins, from' 6/3 to 12/n per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Strped ditto, from 7/10 to io/iq per yard
Fine CofTae*.
Tambour'd Book Mullins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Taconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
fc>ook muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to to/6 per hdkl.
Mufli" color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambsur'd Cravats from 10/S tp li/l I
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Cloths
HuckahackT owelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6/1$ to 13/ per pair
lDimity from 5/10 to 6/1 1
Men's rlilk Hose
Tain! our'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/I1 to
lrifh linens for Gentleiren's Shirts, from 5/5 to (jfi
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Order* received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &e. &c. '
Houlhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 l-» dollars.
A full ruflLd ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
' A full ruffled itto 6 dollars
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. $
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Dire&ors th ; s day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars on each lhare was declared for the lafl
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Caffcier.
Jan. 3. d'f
' THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland i« 1783, or 1784, and came into
this Country, ('tis supposed to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of the highest importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
December 3 1. w & f 1 m
Washington Canal Lottety,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorif«<?..
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand..
hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City ot Washington, fro<t th Po
iomac to theEallem Branch Harbour.
The following is vhe SCHEME of No. I.
Via: 'i Prize of 20,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
Ti.C/r}
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
0,0 ditto 100 2,000
55 ditto 50 1,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for th« Canal, 26,15©
5850 Prizes, 175*00°
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The CommilTioners havg taken the Securities re
■•quired by the aforefaid aft for the pmiflual payment oi
the" prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after tin.
drawing is finished, shall be conl'ider-d as relinquifbed for
the benefitef the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Waftiipsjton, Feb. i T C
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFL/LLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia.
The Subfcripricjj Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers puMi* ed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
snd none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soape , Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of Frcnch Liquors; : \ her with the ul'ual refreikments,
will all-times be p; . at the bar. (
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mo ft
approved Malt Liquors from London and other brewer ies.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Seaf.n.
Large and flnall Parties, op (ingle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours mod convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at ths bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflifd, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
£$• Samuel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing ori his part (hall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly i'lonored.
Philadelphia, April 19* mwf
tlorfes taken in,
For the Winter Season,
And fed on clover h*y at the Subscribers place, 12
rtil£s on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro
vidad, and great care will b« taken of them
William Bell.
MONO AT EVENING, JANUARY 30, 1797.
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c. iffc.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdiek,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Comer of Walnut and Stcond-ftreets,
sf mojl capital and txtenfive AJfortmtnt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. Sic.
Among which are,
.Afparagu9| Three
Berecolej Twelve
Beansi Tkirtcon
Beers: Fifteen
Brocoli Fifteen
Cabbage Six
Carr' t I Four
Cauliflower Twenty-three
Celery Twenty-one
Cucumber 1
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzcl
Leek Kail Shallots
R*pe Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucern#
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. See.
W»th a curious collection of the most ertecmcd
kinds
Five
Four
Twenty-five
Six
Eleven
Twenty-si*
Six
Three
Five
Ten
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the mofl extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in Londen, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17
The Stockholders of the Pennsylvania
Population Company
Arerequeftedto m#et at the Company's Office, No.
53, North Fourth-street, on Wednesday, the ift of
February next, at la o'clock, for the purpose of taking
intoconfideration the proceedings of the Company, and
of making farther affeflme»ts on the (hares, in order
to defray the expences of the Company agreeable to
the 20th, Article of the Constitution.
By aider of the Board.
SOLOMON MARACHE, Secretary.
January, 23d, 1797- dtFeb.i.
Women's Cloaks.
GEO R'G E D O BSO N,
No. 25, South Third-street,
Has just received, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, vialjon
don, an assortment of
Scarlet "N
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed with tur anil
Purple and f ermine.
Ptarl J
December rj
Cheap French China.
THE fnbfcribers finding it impossible to supply their
store with any more China frqm France, the prices
being too iinmo<lerat« in the manufactories, give no
tice that they will fell at prime coll the re.dai.uag
ftffk on hand, confiding of
Deflect Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cops and Saucers
Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vafw
Looking Glafles, in gilt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Deflts, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER ic Co.
No. 91, South Seeond-lireet.
December ft-h
NOTICE.
Sales of LANDS of the United States, 111 the
North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public papers, will ceramence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to he continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
Januar
PubKc Notice,
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to supply the
defc£l in my Title to a lot of ground, situate on the- Weft
fide ®f Fourth-fti eet, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
in length 56 feet, boiinded Northward and Westward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippen, and Eatlward by Fourth-street, occasioned by
the loss 01 a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewis
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux
—All perfoas concerned, are required to appear before
two of the justices of the said court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief Justice of the state, on
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock m the forenoon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office of
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the said court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6feh, 1797- dt3oth
In order to comply with contracts t I wilt fill-, for
appiHived bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Frederickfburg, beginning op
posite to the lower corner of Do<flor Wellford's, on
Caroline-street, and running up to the cross ilreet
leading to Fitzhujih's ferry, and from thence back to
Sophia-street. This square I have laid off into 24 lots,
27 and an half feeufront, and 122 back, 12 on Caro
'liue-ftrect, and 12 011 Sophia-iireet. Nine of those
I have leafed on . an annual ground
rent of $ and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a could enhance the value
of by building small houses, which will as readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will Martins in the
spring, and yields a greater profit in proportion to
their cost than large buildings. Thof« whe incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZHUGH.
B«Ii-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d4W
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought' for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfectly inofienfive; travels leofe, at the
rate of £ve rwiles an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the ijth of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price, of half a dollar will
be returned.
' He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
' DcctmUei 31
Drawing-Matter, from London,
Where he has studied fevcral years under one of
the most eminent maftsrs in that science, attends
yofing Ladie: and Gentlemen at their refpeflivehomes.
H.s terms are 6 dollars per month for attendance three
times per week. Likewise all kinds of ornamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, Sec. taught on the above
terms. A line direflcd to W. H. left with the Editor
of this Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
January 13. eoiw
Crefles
linjadi
Onion
Radifli
T arnip
A lare-e quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petrc for
sale at No. 25, Sautb Thircl-ftfeet.
November 5.
Peas
Savoy
Parsnip
Melon
Lettuce
If Monjieur G H. So his,
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June last, and arrived
at Boston i.bout the middle of August, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is reque&ed *0 call on
Joseph Anthony, & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-flreet, who
will give him some information of importance*
December n, 1796. J
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
h 1 cm-Street,
Has received by the lute arrivals,
A Well Selected As son TMBNT df
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholelale and retail, on the very
low eft terms ;
Amcngji which are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, nevy
patterns
Ditto Farniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, afforded
Irift* Lin«ns, very fine, and Table Liners
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets aflbrted—&c. See.
Oitohar a 6. d
Philadelphia and Laneaiter
January 6, * 797-
At a meeting of the President and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollars per (hare, was declared for the
lalt half year, which will be paid to the Stockholders,
or their representatives any time after the 21ft ef this
month
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Nov. 30
For carrying the Mails of the United
On the following Post Roads, <will be rtciived until
I. From Ch.trleftun, S. C. by Jackionborp* and Coofa
hatcliy, to Savamjah, thrice a week. Receive the Mail
at Char]«fton every Tuelday and Friday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the n«*t Friday and Monday, by 8
A. M, 'turning, rcccive the Mail an Savannah eve-
Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednesday by 6, A- M. *nd
(Jciiver it at Charleston the next Tuolciay and Friday
by noon. ?
Propofuls for this route 'will be received by the paji-majler at
Savannah.
2. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week-
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy ever«y Thursday by 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. M.ahd arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be r«-
ceived by the post-master 3t Beaufort.
Note 1. The Poft-mafler General may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance of the contra&s, he previcufly stipu
lating adequate compensation for any extia expence
that may be occasioned thereby.
Note 2- For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
trait, the contractor shall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars (hall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe*
cified, he mufi state the alteration desired and the price
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte-
ration
Note 4. The contra&s are te be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
Pojl Majler Qeneral.
General Post Office, >
Philadelphia, Jaq. 13,1796. j
16.
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP M ART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Mastsr,
-*■ hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
O&ober 31. d
jfjiiSL For Sligo and Killibegs,
aSfiThe American Ship NjNcr,
ujffi'WraaA Cuthbert Riggs, maftcr.
SShmK Will fail with all convenient fpecd. For
freight or paflage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well allorted
3 Bales Irish Flannel*, and 2 boxes Linens
»5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Mitts.
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF., PGRJv,
OATMEAL, Sue.
November it, 1796*
WM. HAT DON,
SALT' PETRE.
A CARD.
Company,
TENCH FRANCIS. Treasurer.
i ! 'or Sale,
Imjjsritd by th?
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
w&f
PROPOSALS,
States,
tbcfirjl doy of Match next inclusive
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
To be Sold by Public Vendue,
On Saturday, the 28th Jai.uirV, at the .jcrchants'
Coffee-Ijoule,
A NOT E,
Drawn by William Burgifs and Co. of South
! hird-ftreet, near Market-street, Linen Drapers, in
favour of Robert Burgifs, jun. or order, for 600
dollars. The said Note became due the 30th Dec,
'aft, and was ptotelled for non-p.!yme»t.
For approved notes at 60 days.
January ,
FOR SALE,
About i,600 acres of Land,
WELL, situated, laying on and between Marfti
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Penr.fylvania, ia
four leparate Patents. For terms ot iale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, Sauth Second-itrset
TP W fW
January 26.
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Offioe, No. 147, Chrfnut
. r r eet ', where a corrt<ft Numerical Book is kept for public
inipechon. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diawn in the Wafoington Lottery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received.
V Business 01 a Broker carried on as usual.
J"" iar y '»• ttstf
AH Perfcns having Demands
Against the EUaie of the late Thomas Franklin,
dtceafed, ate (Wired to bring in their accounts for
lettlemeM ; and those indebted to make immediate
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS,
WALTER FRANKLIN, or ( Excu "
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, > toss -
January 14th, 1796,
Wants a Situation,
As a Housekeeper, an finglifh woman, complete!*
qualified in every reipefl to keep a Gentleman'i House,
Enquire ft the Printer.
. January 26 *, t
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREtT.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeffional friend*,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume to ao entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which for fever a I years past have in so diUinguilhed &
manner recommended them'to notice.
Turnpike
Printed Catalogues combining the mod exrenfive eollec*
tion cf the latest Engluh and Irilh Editions ever imported,
into this country, are pablifhed, and will be delivered gratis
on application.
Orders add re fled to G. D. in writing from any
(hall be pun&ually attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near M.n ket Street Wharf.
ov - g - tu&f 3 iß
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
A'o. 99, Nerth Second Street.
Imperial } rHyfon Skin.
Hymn, > Fresh Teas. < Souchoßg,
Young Hyson, } C liohta
Due. 9,
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing neccflary
to be used for^he
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth;
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentriflce ia powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the month and prefcrving the teeth—he
also furnilhes Brulhes and foft Sponges.
*** He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve
Fourth-flreet.
November i 6. tt»
yjAri The Ship DIANA,
wflfiiKki Samuel Pile, Matter, 1
Burthen 205 47*95 lens register, built in
3tSt£s£\J Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar,, and was sheathed 13 months ago, (he
has just had a compleat out-fit, and m<iy be fer.t to fe*
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin Iff C«.
If bo have for sale on heard said vcjftl.
17 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and i» bundles of writing flatet
i box ink (lands and note, preffei.
14 bales of fail canvass.
Imperial
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchcng J
40,000 pieces Nankeen# of the firft qaality.
19 tubs Quickfilvcr.
d6w.
t cherts Bandanno handkerchiefs
A few chests tyfanchefler goodswell aflforted in Cor
duroys, thjckfets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, ice.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
ISo crates Queens ware well aiTorted,
io tons flitet iead,
Nails aflbrted, fiat andfliarp points,
London Particular, 1 .
London Market, " C Made.ra Wine in pipe,
Vew-York Mark ) and ho g sheads -
-Market, _
4 o pipes and lohogiheads Teneriffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
430 logs Mahogany*.
Nov 7.
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the subscriber en the 23d Ovftobsr,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 41 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mi**d greea
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much wern. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed te driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the subscriber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberla'tne,
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10, ' 14 Jimauwtf
mwftf
['Volume XI.
FOR SALE,
For Sale, or Charter,
And on hand,
eo2w
jtawjm,
Kh&ftf—at-'—mu, „ mmmm iu mm wu ,■— an uwj. »m» wm* <
New Theatre.-
ON MONDAY EVENING, January 30,
N Will be presented, the Historical Play of
Columbus; !
Or, A WORLD DISCOVERED.
WITH NEW SCENERY, MACHINERY, DRESSES, ,
AND DKCOR^TIONS.
The music composed by Mr. Reinagle.
The praceflions and Pageant by Mr. Byrne.
In this Pl.vy the manners and customs of Mexico and
Tern characterize the firft discovered nations of America.
Such deviation from Historical triith was deemed neceflary
for dr: mafic fcffecl, and has enabled the aiithsr to inrro
ducc the pathetic Tale of CORA and ALONZO, from
Marmontel's lnctxt.
The PROLOGUE will be spoken by Mr. Wicnzll.
SPANISH fUTY,
Columbus, Mr. Cooper
Alonzo, Mr. Moreton
Harry Herbert, Mr. Wigntll
Doitor Dolores, Mr. Harwood «
Bribon, Mr. Francis
Ro'dan, Mr. Fox
Vs'verdo, Mr. Darley r
Mofcofo, Mr. BliJJett
Captain, Mr. McDonald
Tft Spaniard, Mr. Barley, jun.
id Spaniard, Mr. Morgan
INDIANS.
Oiozimbo, Mr. IVarren
-Solafco, Mr. V Ejl range
Catalpo, Mr. Warrell
Cuto, " i Mr. H'arrell, jun.
Cora, Mrs. AZeny
Nelti, Mrs. Francis
Prieftefles of the Sun, f Me^Urfkc.
Indian Women—Mrs Harvey, Mrs. Doctor, Miss Mil
bourne, MifsOldfield. Miss L'ESrange, Miss Bites, Miss
Anderfon, and M'elle Sophie
In 2& t.
A PROCESSION OF INDIANS, and the firft
Lzndinfof Columbus.
In aft 3.
REPRESENTATION 6 F A STORM AND EARTHQUAKE;
Wiih a Grand Eruption from a Volcano.
In aft 4-
A March of Sacrifice, and Proceflion to the Execution
/ of Cora.
The whole to conclude with A GRAND PAGEANT.
The scene of the Volcano designed by J. Tvichards,
Esq. R. A. principal Seme Punter to Covent-Garden
Theatre.
The reft of the Scenery designed by Mr. Milbourne,
aid the whole executed by him and under his direc
tion.
Machinist, Mr. Lenthall,
The dresses designed by Mr. Gibbons,
To which will be added*, the musical drama of
T The Purse.
Or, BENEVOLENT TAR.
The'mufic by Mr. Reeve. ■
The Accompaniments aHd New Airs by Mr. Reinagle.
Baron, Mr. IVarren
Theodore, Mr. Fox
Edmund, Mr. Darley, jun.
Will Steady, Mr. Har-jjood
Page, Miss L'EJtrange
Sally, Mrs. OUmixon
Oh Wednesday—Venice Preferv'd, and the Flitch
«f Bacon.
Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit Seven Eighths
of a Dollar, and Gallery, half a dollar.
g? Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's tsook-ftore /
No. 5® High-i(reet, aod at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order l thcm, as soon as the company are feared, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted ta remain.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office on Satur
day moening, as usual.
T.he Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain-rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to ue taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from
-jo till 4 on the days of performance.
nvsir respublicai
Mrs. Grattan
RefpeQfully informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the !
City, that the third
LADIES' CONCERT
Will be on Tuesday next, at the Aflembly Room.
Act I.
Overture. - - - - - Pir.\tl.
fijloial Seng, Afri. Gr att an, - . Haydn,
Sornata. Piano F*jte, - Rtviag/e.
Recitative, " Conrfirtyc my people",
Mrs. Gratt.an, - Hai.del.
Chorus and the Glory, ... Handel,
jlcT 11.
Concerto Violonce 10,
Seng, Mij. Gratt an. - Gvglumi
Sonnata, Piano Forte, ... Ferrari.
Song, Mr. Hill, .... , Handel.
Chorus, ' for unto us'', - - - Handel.
Mrs. Giattan bt-gs leave to inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen, th..t the fubfeription-book is at,her houl'e
No 39, North Sixth-firtet, for the reception of those
names who wifii to honir her with their commands. —
A iubfcription for eight nights 16 dollars, including a-
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, both transferable—
Half-fubfcriptiens 8 dollars, including one ticket.—
Single ticket 4 dollars.
Mrs. Gratian takes. the liberty of requesting the
fubfvribers -to fend for their tickets any day after
Ihurfday, tire ijth of December, at Ne. 39, North
Sixlh-ftr'e»t.
£5" Smgla tickets to t>e had the day of the Concert
enly, at the Bar of Mr. Oellers's Hotel.
*4-* The Concert to. begin at half past fix ; and at
half past eight, the music will attend for the Ball.
January 28 ||
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNEitL
Rel'pedlfully informs the Public, that
On TUESDAY EVENING, Jan. 31, at 7 .'clock,
. WiU be delivered,
THE EJECTS OF AMBITION AND GUILT,
Bonfidered, traccd and esemjilifieil in the cliara-SLer of
Macbeth.
With recitations of the.most ftrikitigfcenes, and mora!
ind critical observations 011 the ch-rafter, and on the au-
C ' Tickets tobe had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. ;t tfie Library ;
atmr M'Elwte's looking-glass-store, No. ?o, S. Fouyl.-
flnet ; and at Mr. Carey's, BookfeUec, Markct-ftreet—
Half adeHai eack.
Letter to Mr. finc!kney, Minijler Plenipntentiary of
the United Stutej to the b'rench Republic.
[concluded.]
Although the fubjrft of M. De la Croix'3 third
and last complaint (the Britilh treaty) has been al
ready difcufled, allow me here to make a few re
marks. He fays "it will be easy to prove that
" the United States in this treaty have knowingly
" and evidently facrificed their connexions with
" the Republic, and the molt essential and least
" comefted prerogative of neutrality."—The re
verse of what the mioiller considers fo.eufy to prove,
we think has been demmjlrated. Our legally bind
ing c«nne£lions with France we always considered
as being formed by our treaties: and we fay with
confidence that we have not "knowingly" violated
these in a single article. If individuals have at any
time infringed them, the government has been fin
cefe and diligent in its endeavors tQ redress the
wrong. If the ties of affedion, of warm, enthu
fiailic friendlhip have been weakened, the raufe is
to be fought for not in the a£is of the American
Government 1 ; which have been eonilantly direct
ed to the prefei vation of *ur pcacewith all nations.
These ties did not depend on treaties. It was our
friendfhip to France, contracted during our revo
lution, and oar partiality for the cause of liberty
and felf government for which she engaged in her
own, that made us endure numerous injuries aimed
without complaining. We weie not wilting to as
cribe to the Republic the outrages of her mriif
ters against the laws, the sovereig nty and the dig
nity of the United States, or the exceptionable
stile of their communications. Even when for
such flagrant aggrefllons, often repeated, we defued
the recal of one of her miniders, it was done in 'he
mod soothing language, and in the meantime, led
the intereds of the Republic (hould fnffer, he was
permitted to exeraife his fun&ions in all cases in
which thafe interests could be afFeited. When his
successor arrived, he officially requeded that the
pffending minider might ha apprehended, that he
might be sent to Franc* : But the Government
fitisfied by his removal, declined the measure —
Some irritations were experienced from that fue
criTor—Whit sensations have been produced by
Mr. Adet's notes, your own feelings, on the peru
sal will enable youtojndge. If he intended to ex
cite the general indignation of our citizens, he is
not disappointed": but it is presumed (his was not
the obje&. After an exhibition of complaints in
a stile so exceptionable, he could add but one more
improper a£t, that of publishing his notes in the
news papers : he had'fcarcely transmitted them ta
the Executive, before he iorwarded them to the
printer for publication.
From the foregoing datement we trust it will
appear, That there has been no attempt in the
Government of the United States to violate our
treaty or weaken our engagements with France.
That whatever resistance it has opposed to the mea
lwres of her agents, the maintenance ef the laws
and fovereigaty of the United States and their neu
tral obligations have rendered indispensable : That
it has never acquiesced in any acts vielatilif our
rights or interfering with the advantages Itipulated
to Fracce ; but on the contrary has pppofed theai
by all the means in its pawer: That it .has with
held no fuceours from France that were compati
ble with the duties of neutrality tp grant : That
as well by,their independent political rights as by
the express provilions of the commercial treaty with
France, the United States were at full liberty to
enter into commercial treaties with any other na
tion, and eonfequently with G rcat -Britain : That
no fails manifelting a partiality to that country,
.have been, and I add, that none such, can be pro
duced.
Of the propriety and judnefs of tltefe conclusi
ons you will endeavor to fatisly the French Go
vernment ; and conlcieus of the re&iiude of our
own proceedings, daring the whole eourfe of the
p*efeut war, we cannot but entertain the mod san
guine expectations that they will be fatisfied. We
even hope that this has been already accomplished,
and that you will be saved from the pain of renew
ing a difcufiion which the Government ha 3 entered
upon with regret. Your million and indrutlions
prove its solicitude te have prevented this necessity,
and the fineerity of its present hopes, that your
endeavors, agreeably to those intlru£tions, " To
" remove jealousies and obviate complaints, by
shewing that they are groundless—to restore
" confidence so unfortunately and injuriaufly ira
" paired—to explain the relative interests of both
" couutiics, and the real sentiments of your own,"
have been attended with success. And as a confe
[ qtience thereof we rely on the repeal of the de
ciees and orders which expose oui commerce to
: indefinite injuries, which militate with the obliga
■ tions of treaties and cur rights as a neutral nation.
L ' I have the honor to be,
' With great refpeft,
Sir,
Your mod obedient servant,
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
t Second Ball.
New Cotilians, IScotch Reels, Contre Dances and a
new Quadrille.
MESS FRANCIS & BTRA'E beg leave to inform
their scholars, friends and the public in general,
that their second dall for this season will be.on Tuesday
the 7th of February, at O'Ellerj-'s AlTembly-Room,—
and in addition to their new Cotilions and Reels, will
be introduced an entire nsw QUADRILLE, compos
ed by Mr. Byrne.
Mess. Francis and Byrne propcrfe to give gratuitous at
tendance at their School-Room, for the inilru&ion of
thofc ladies and gentlemen in their new dances, who mean
to honor the ball-room with their presence,—attendance
for'this purpeic after their school hours, on Tuesdays and
, Thursdays.
Tickets to be had of Mess. Francis and Byrne, No. 70
north Eighth-ilreet, at at O'Ellers's Hotel. Ladies are
rcqaefted to apply to their female triends, scholars of Mess.
F. & B. or is above, at their refidenoe.
N. B. The new danccs will not infringe upon the uiual
I routine of the evening.
The days ef teaching, for their young pupils, are Thurs
days and Saturdays,-from three o'clock in the aitemoon
; 'till fix—afid on Tuesdays and Thursdays, from 'till
- nine, for thofc of a more advanced age.
Private Tuition as ufutl-
January 28 »»w
Philadelphia, tr
MONDAY EVENING, 30, 1797:
"TFKAi.
Six per Cent. - .... 16/4 r j
Three per Cent. ------ - 9/6 t
per Cent. - -- -- -- --
it percent. I
Deferred Six per Cent. .... Li/4 1
BaNK United St«es, - - - uperctjh
—— Psnnfylvania, - - ,13 do* Iso
-■■ —North America, - - - 40 do.
Infuraßce Comp. N. A. (hares, - ' »5 P cr et- ■
Pennfylv. par. 1
COURSE OF EXCHANGE. *
On, London, at 30 days, 621-1 y
at 60 days, 60 r
at 90 days, 57 l-» c
Amftsrdam, 60 days, per guilder. 40
90 days> 43
Mr. Fenno, *
A, number of Stockholders have agreed to sup
port the following ticket for Dire&urs of the Bank '
of Pennsylvania. a
Samuel Howell J
Robert Ralllon
Joseph P. Narris 1
George Plumftead '
William Sanfom
William Montgomery
Philip Nicklin
Jelin C. Stacker 1
Matthew Lawler
Henry Pratt
Thomas Norton
Andrew Bayard
John Craig
Robert Wharton
John Perot
James Vanuxem '
Joseph Ball I
Hugh Holmes
Godfrey Haga.
Arrivals at New Tori, Days'
Ship Atlantic, Jose, London 90
Eliza, Jenkins, Port-au-Prince 25 '
Sloop Negociation, Bliss, C; peN. Mole 66 '
Arrived (rom London yederdav (hip Atlantic, J
Capt. Jose, 13 weeks from Gravefend—no news.
From the Atlantic's Log-boak.
Dec. 3, spoke the brig Eliza, Harrington, from 1
Philadelphia, bound to Amsterdam, out 13 days,
long. 47,30.
Dec. 4, spoke the ship Ellice, Harvey, from
New-York, bound to Landen, out 11 days, long.
53-
Jan. 9, spoke the fchoantr Hannah, from Port'
land, bound to Barbadocs, out 8 days, long. 52.
Jan. 16, spoke the schooner Hope, Hutchins,
from Newbuiyport, bound to Surinam, out two
days, long. 65.
Jan. 14, spoke a brig from Barbadocs,_bound ta
Bolton, off Lsng-liland,
From the Log-book of the [brig Bellona.
The schooner Suffolk, Gordon, from Hifpanio
la, bound to New-York; has put into Savannah in
didrefs.
Brig- Alexander, Backhouse, from Jamaica, to
New-York has put into Savannah in diftTefs.
Brijj Eliza, Holden, from N. York, has arrived
at Savannah, dimafted in lat. 28.
CO MMUNICA TIONS.
/
SIR,
By inserting the following paragraphs yon will
much oblige a subscriber.
A Correspondent asks upon what ground an op
position can be made to fending an envoy extraor
dioary to tfce French natinn ? Will it be said that
there is not an equal propriety at present with re
gard to France, that there was lately in refpefl to
Great-Britain i The cafcs appear to be particular,
ly similar—the cruizers of both nations have at
tacked our commerce. Why then is an objection
now made, by the very men, who, to a cafe exactly
similar, gave their decided approbation ? Is it be
cause France is in quedion, and wot Great-Bri
tain ?—lf nations are to be treated with refpefl, 1
only in proportion to theirpo-wer, surely"the Frcnch ;
may claim some title to a procedure which would
evidence refpe£t.
At the time Mr. Jay was sent la Great-Britain,
was he Bot made choice of, on account of
tiality to that nation, and as thereby, more likely
to meet with a friendly reception ?—Such a choice
was exceedingly proper ; it uvinced a peaceful dis
position. But should a different line of conduct be
now pursued, will not the world, with propriety, 1
quellion the " Jincerity" oi our " wishes to pre- |
serve harmony, and a good tlnderdanding with the
French republic."
No opinions are more general, and I am perfua- !
ded none are more ill founded, than that one free
government has nothing to apprehend from another
free government —that all republics are free govern
ments —that they naturally love each other—that it
is the intered of the United States, that all the
world fh iuld be republicanized—that monarchies i
are the natural enemies of Republics—and that we
ought to embark in the quixotic projects of revolu
tionizing mankind, and giving every nation whether
they desire it or not, a form of government like our
own.
These opinions have not even the countenance
of theory to support them . Are men lei's fond of j
power in a republic than in a monarchy ? Which |
is the mod affurning, a courtier, <y a demagogue ?'
—All experience hfrs given the lie direst to the 1
opinions above dated j and hidory has furniflied us
1 with examples of their faHity in every page. How
1 pften do we fee a nation refilling tyranny wills one
hand, and at the fame time drenuoufly employing
the other in reducing to the mod abject flavcry
those within their gtafp Those nations who are
■ the moll disposed to establish and maintain their
( own freedom and independence, arc r.ot the lead
disposed to attack the freedom and independence
of o hers. The love of pdwer is as natural and
bewitching at the lave of freedom. I believe mod
( >eopi(; by freroum mean only that <h< y ftxiuld bff
tree thcmieWes.
Will a Virginian pietei:d that he means any
thing more ? Then let him free Uis slaves and give
them a part of what thfir labour has acquiied.
Why (feould a French tepubßcan love au Ame
ricaii better than a fubjrtt of the French monar
chy ? Is a French man now less immoral, 1,-fs felf.
i(h, less pfoud, less vain, less ambitious, than a
French man twenty ytfars ago ? Will it be laic! that
he loves an American because from him lie firll im
bibed the principles of freedom ? Then it is-they
who owe us every ihinff, and not we them. The
truth it, that all governments are to each other
man in a state of nature is—if not holtile,
yePfelfifh, and disposed 'o promote their own inte
rest and advantage—they who expett any v thing
else betray their ignorance of human nature.
From the late publication of Monfteur Comma
dure- Brigadier-Generalßarney in the Armies of
France, it may be juflly fufpefted that this titled
citizen of Maryland, has a partner in B'altiroorer—■
a pjrtner in ike profits ef his nefarious trade, -of
capturing the property of his countrymen—How
long an tinbluihing Catalint will be tolerated by
the men of reflection in Baltimore remains to be
feen—wegtve them the praile of very greatpatienc*
—The arrival of a Fifty gun (hip in the
Chefapeak mull be a very cxhilerating fpettacle.—.
If Barney can lay out a million'of dollars in his con
tract for supplies it may make some converts.
It i» much to the honor of our country that men
in general condemn the principle upon which 'the
Jacobius juftify Barney's conduct ; You might at
well expeA that an individual Should thrive and fat
ten on the flelhofhis Own limbs—by gnawing his
fliouldersto the bone—ns that a nation can even
exill, as Independent, if this disorganizing princi
ple be put inti pra&ice and be juftified by public
opinion.
When the Treaty was talked of the cant of the
French party was what it now is,—They gave the
Key note of their party here to France, and invit
ed her to join in the concert—They told France
" don't be afraid to resent this Treaty—The peo
ple (meaning will join you "-—AW toa
on the President's communication they held the
fame language—They invite the French to be irri.
talcd—They will fail—France surely mill remem
ber that the tories in the beginning of our Evolu
tion milled G. Britain by similar arrogance Th£y
called themfalves the People, G. Biitain believed
thetn ; France will by this time, surely have learn,
ed this truth, that though the Americans lincerely
wilhed her a good and free government yet they
have not the most dirtant idea of oversetting their
#wn urn i vailed Government to oblige her ! That
the nation are not the whispering malcontents who
tell Mr. Adet a great deal of nonsense—and that
the People treat with contempt and abhorrence all
hei • empls upon their sovereignty.
EVIDENCE 0F MONARCHY.
The Vice-Prelide.it of the United Stares wa»
seen handing Buckets in one of the lanes the other
morning at the Fire.
SALE BY AUCTION. '
scbooni* Orion
WILL btfold tpthe iugiieit bidder, on Thursday, Fe
bruary a, at 7 o'clock 111 the evening, at the mer
chants' Coffee-Houfe, in Sccojid Street, on two a;*J four
months' credit, for apprcyad notes with an im'.friiir.
The Orion it (ixteen months eld, her frame is ©f the
bell of Whit# Oak; fiie is a faithful built veflel,' hand
fomtly finifticd, and well found in every particu&r, if
ready to receive a cargo, and can be lent to fey without
any expense on her hull fails ©r rigging, she {tows iix
hundred barrels, lias a handlome cabin and'fterrage, and
a Jialf deck which wiil Itow feventy-fiye or. eighty barrel*.
She is a (aft-failing ycflel, a*d has been nowly caulked",
graved, painttd, and put in thorough repair in every rc
, fpe&. Her Inventory may be fceu by applying to mr. Sa
mu£L SiiiTii, Ship-broker, No. 86 foutii Front-sir ect, op
to the captain, on board said schooner, laying* oopofitc
mefT. Wills y Yardley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
wharf—where she at any time may be thoroughly exajjn*
, ined by those who wi£h to purchase*
3Q
IV ANT 8 A PLACE,
A YOuNG MAN from England—Has lived as a Ser-~
aTIv yant,can shave and drefshair in a plain way ; would
have no objeftiop to go to any part of the world. H*
speaks three languages: woul i engage in any other em
ployment he might be capablc of. A line left at No. 69
south Front-ftrect, or with the Printer, wiJJ be duly at
tended to. January 30 jt
New-Theatre.
THE Managers, (who have been accnflomed uniform
ly to consult and adopt the public •piuion, as welf
j from motives of gratitude as imtereft) finderltand that it
| " generally thought that the price ef admiflion into the
! keen failed difproportionallv to the prices of ad*
million into the other pares of the Theatre* and therefore
do not htfitate to redull the price of a Pit ticket to levca
; eighths of a dollar.
i r t0 concealed, that in making thit
■ j iacnfice,, the Managers rilk comiderable pecuniary eni
barrafsments ; but it is iome consolation that while they ac
( i cede to the present reduction, they have reason to believe
. thenifelves juftified by the prevailing fentimei ts, in con
tinuing the advanced pricf of the box-tickets, without
which it would indeed be impra&icable to conduct theett
terrairments of the Theatre ori a scale adequate to the
pullic expeiflation, and confident with their ideas of duty
and rcfpeA to a community on whose liberality they mnft
ever depend, and by whole talte th«y are proved to be re
■ gulated. faijuary .^o
p] 1 .
I ALL P KRSONS
5! INDEBTED to the Estate of Georgf Ross, late of Cape
' \ Ma 7» deceased, are requeued to make immediate pay
xnent t° rhe and have any demands
j againlt iaid Bftatc, will please call on Kim fer lettlement.
JAMES TUUXG, JJmr,
Swanfon, below SeuthSrreet.
. J anuar y 30 leo3 t
j NOTE FOUND.
I Qome time back w* fotrnd a Note ot mr- John Nichol
• ! lon, in favor of , and indorsed by . The
owner, describing the amount, &c may hare it a«in br
paying the expsnfe of this advertisement. Apply to
JOHN FLINT,
Coachmnka', No, ji# Arch-Strect.
January 30 j jtin— iw HU «»i» .wiifw
Philadelphia, "January 30.
ANOTHER FIRE
Broke out Saturday evening in theMalt-R»om of
Mr. Thomas Morris's Brew-house, Moravian al
ley. The hie was extinguished before it got to any
eonfidrrable height, which probably prevented se
rious consequences—the place being difficult of
Bccefs, j
On Saturday the remains of Mrs. Brown and
her three children (the eldest a girl of thirteen, the
second a boy of nine, and the yottngeft a girl of
seven years of age) were conveyed in three coffins
from the house of Major Robert Patton, to the
grave-yard of St. Paul's Church, attended by thr
clergy of all drt*ominations, and by the grpateft
concouife of other citizens that probably ever
convened at a funeral in this city. The sympathy I
in this mournful scene, was sincere and nniverf.il, |
and many tears were died {over the deceased, by all
rlaffes of people. After reading the funeral fer
viVe, the Rev. Doctor Magaw ascended the pulpit
of St. Piiil's church, and addressed a fewpathetic
vrords to the audience'. His sympathy, and the
agitation of the audience, prevented his faying
more.—He concluded by promising to preach a
sermon suited to the awful event next Sunday.
Mrs. Brown will long be remembered and la
mented by all who knew her, for her amiable do.
medic, and fecial virtues.
We have heard since Saturday, that the negro
boy supposed to be burnt, escaped unhurt. Mr.
I Brown is indebted, under Providence, for his life
(to the fidelity and exertions of his black servant,
who conducted him on a ladder from the third dory
of his house, ta which he ascended through a
stair-case, while it was in flames, in order lo save
his wife and children. He was much injured by
the fire, but is now out of danger.
Two servant maids, and three apprentices, who
werclikewife a good deal burnt, and sent to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, are all it is said upon the
recovery.
that the Philadelphia Gazette will be
Continued by Mr. Carey, Mr. Brown's aflidant v
during the confinement and indisposition of Mr'
Brown.
APPOINTMENT.
David Riiffel to be Collector for the Diflrift of
&cuth Hero, in the State of Vermont—vice Ste
phen Keyes, fuperceded.
CONGRESS or tbs UNITED STATES
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tburfday, January 5.
The order of the day on the resolutions entered
fnto by the committee of the whole yederday, on
the fubjeft of balances due from certain dates to the
United States, was entered upon . They were in
the following words:
" Resolved by the Senate and House of Represen
tatives of tbe United States rf America in Ctngre/i
afftmbled, That the Prcfi sent of the United States
be requcfted to give lnf>rmaiion to the several
states who were, by the commissioners appointed to
fettle accounts between the U»iird States and the
individual dates, found indebted to the United
Stales, of the several sums in which they were so
found indebted, accompanying such information
with a statement of interrji fiom the last day of
December 1789, to the id day of January 1797,
concluded on the fame principles on which interest
bas been allowed and either funded or paid on the
correspondent sums for whish the United States
were found, by the said commissioners, indebted to
certain datus ; and with an earned requeff that
they will cause proviliou to be made, as speedily as
ma" be, for paying the said sums, refpeftively, for
which they were found indebted, by the said com
rfhiflioners, with interest, into the treasury of the J
United States.
" Resolved, That payment of the said f(ims,
refpeftively found due from the said dates, by the
said commijftoners, with intercfl thereon at 4 per cent,
fer ann, from the lafl day of December 1789, to the
JirJl day of 'January 1795, may be received in any
of the 6, J per cent dock, or deserted dock of the
United States, in the fame proportions as the
United States have paid and allowed for the cor
respondent sums in which they werefonnd indebted
tocertnin ftatM, by the report of the said commif
■fioners."
The resolution having been read, after some
further debate,
Theqneftion on the 6rft resolution was fiat and
carried as follows :
YEAS.
'MeflVs. Baldwin McfTr6. Malbone
Bradbury Milledge
Cabel Moore
Chrifiie , Muhlenbe'-g
Claiborne New
Clopton Nicholas
Coit Orr
Davenport Parker
Dearborne Potter
Dent Preston
Ege Read
A- Foster Richard*
D. Foster fievrall
Freeman Sherborne
Gfllatin Jer. Smith
Gilman N Smith
Goodrich Ifracl Smith
Greenup Isaac Smith
Gregg Wu. Smith
Grifwold S. Smith
Hancock R. Sprigg, jisn.
Harrifon Swanwick
Hartley Swift
Henderfon Thatcher-
Kitchell Thomas
v Kitrera Vamum
S. Lyman, Venable
Maelay Wadfw®rth
Madison 57
N
NAYS.
Meflrs. Ame£ Meflrs. Hindham
Bailey Holland
Baird G. Jackson
Blount Livingfton
Burgefn Locke
Cooper W. Lyman
Ctaik Macon
Franklin Murray
Gilbert Page
Gillefpie Strudwick
Glen Van Alcn
Grove Van Corllandt
Hathorn William*
Havens 27
The fecßiid resolution was a!fo agreed to.
Mr." Madtfon called up a report of the secretary
of war, on the pet ition of Mr. Poira, secretary and
aid-de-camp of M. La Fayette. The report was
favorable to the petitioner, and Mr. M. moved
that a bill might be brought in. This was ob
jected to ; it was said this petitioner (who alledges
he was beyond sea and could not apply before the
aft of limitation foreclofed his claim) had no bet
ter claim than persons in the country whose claims
had been foreclofed by tht aft without their kn»w
ledge. It was committed to a committee of the
whole, and made the order for to morrow.
Mr. S. Smith proposed the following resolution
to the House :
" Resolved, That a committee be appointed to
enquire whether any and what amendments may be
neteffary in the aft to afcertaiti and fix tbe military
establishment of the United States."
A committee of five members was appointed.
Mr. Gallatin proposed the following refolmion
to t4ia House :
" Resolved, That a committee be appointed ts
enquire into the progress made in carrying into
effect the aft providing for the sale of lavds in the
territory nsrth-weft of tbe river Ohio, and above
the rao»th of Kentucky river, and also whether
any, and if any, what alterations are neceflary in
the fame."
A committee of five wag appointed.
Mr. Heuderfnn called up the report of a feleft
committee on the petition of Nicholas Rufeveldt
and Jacob Mark. The Houf- accordingly went
into a committee of the whole, Mr. Coit in the
chatr. These petitioners pray for the right of en
tering any of the vacant territory of the United
States, to search and explore f«r metals, semi-metals
and all other minerals, and when they find any, to
have an exclulive right thereto for a
allowing the United States an equitable portiou of
the clear proceed*. The report recommended the
priviledges to be granted.
Some obje&ions were made to this report which
was disagreed to. Adjourned.
»■ *i»
Friday, Jvnuary 6.
Mr. Harper called up the resolution which he
laid upon the table the other day, calling for cer
tain statements from the treafu'y department, rela
tive to the revenues of the United States.
Ayeed. 4
Alter sundry reports and petitions had been ifted
upon and dilpofed of,
Mr. W. Smith said he wished olay a resolution
on the table, rrfpeftingan alteration in the confii
lution $ it was in that part of it which direftfd the
electors of a president and vice-prelident to vote for
two persons, one of whom dinijld be president and
the other vice.president. It had been d fco'vered,
that great inconveniences might arise from this mode
of election. Gentlemen must be fatisfied that it
could not anfiver the end intended, viz. to carry
into effect tlie real intention of the electors. He
believed there could be no objection, therefore,
to the alteration which he was about to propose,
it went oi\Jy to authorize electors to dcfigiiate
whom they meant to be president, and whom vice
prrfider>t. Mr. Smith thought this a proper time
for bringing forward 'his amendment* fortwo rea
sons, because the matter was frefh in the peoples'
minds, and because it was tight to do it at a period
the mod remote from an election, in order that the
ffates might have time to ratify an amendment be
fore an election might be near at hand ; because,
if pottpOned till near the time of an elcftirn, the
uncertjunty of its being ratified, would have a dis
agreeable effect. He would, for this"pHrpofe, pro
pose a resolution to the following effect :
" Resolved, That the third clause of the fird sec
tion of the fecund article of the confutation of the
United States, ought to be amended in such man
ner, as that the electors of the president and vice
prefident be ditefted to designate whom they vote
tor as president, and for whom as vice-president ;
and that the said amendment be proposed to the
different date legiflaturec for their concurrence, in
order that it may become part of the constitution of
the United States."
It was ordered to be printed. Adjourned.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, Jimmy 27.
The letter from the Secretary »f State to Mr
Pinckney, discloses fom« curious facts. Among
other things, the minider of France has made it
a fubjeft of formal complaint to our government,
that the French flag has not been displayed bet.ore
Congress in their hall of fcflion—and what is more
lingular, the miniller has complained that the pub
lilhers of almanacks and registers have arranged the
names of the Britifti minister, before that of the
French and Spanish miaifters, and he has requeued
the President to disavow this conduct of the prior
ters, and fuppreft the publications.
What will the world think of the agent of a
great nation, descending to such puerilities ? And
what opinion will be formed of the minister of a
free nation, who can be f« ignorant of the laws of
th* United States, a.< to suppose the executive has
the power to fitpprefs a publication, not prohibited
by law ? It' seems as if the agents of the French
nation take unwearied pains to make their govern
ment hated and themselves despised.
The house of representatives have resolved to re
duce t'h>- military edablilhment of the United States',.
by dilbandiug the dragoons. A motion far tedu
ci'njr tfre four regiments of infantry to two, Intro
ducer) by Mr. Willi?.:i)S; did not facceed. 1' fs ch?
culated tha the savings, in the military department,
with a few other items will amount the prefect
year to about 4.00,000 dollars.
By thiHaft arrival* ttom London, we learn thai
the Portuguese minister, commiffi med to treat fur
peace, arrived in Paris oh ihe 7th October.
The Ealt-Jnd a compapy have it in con'empla 1
on to appfy to Parliament for leave ts add to their
capital Itou'k the Turn of two millions. The' rea
lons afljgnrd by the chairman of the court of di
re&ors, are, the high price of war freights ; large
payments to the bank of England and efpeciaily
the valt increase of their trade. The war with
Tippoo had alio created a drawback of two milli
ons f-om what would otherwise have btsn derived
from their territories.
On the ?Bth October, Mr. Pitt b'ought forward
his proposition, in the h&ufe of commons, for
funding the navy and exchequer bills. The former
amounting to 1 1,993,167!. sterling j the latter two
millions and a half. Thefc navy bills fall due at
different periods ; nose were due at tire time of
this proposition, but the ipinilter observed, that
such a quar.tity of floating securities in market in
jured the public credit and the operations of com,
merce. After debate, the motion passed.
During the difeuffion, Mr. I'itt made the follow
ing remarks on the fabjedt of peace and the pend
ing negociation.
!Wor do I consider it as a measure less eligible in
another view of our situation in the profpedl of
peace. It cannot surely be expe&ed that at the
very commencement of a negociation ofcfo momen
tous a nature, and so extensive in its relaiiuns, any
occurrence should take place within the short peri
od of a week decisive of its issue. He mult, in
deed, reason at an extraordinary and unaccounta
ble rate, whj calculates 011 such an eyent. Howe
ver sanguine in ray own yvifhes for the tufptfious re
turn of tranquility, 1 cannot admit that the difcnf
fions of the great and important intereftsof Great-
Britain and her alljes, and of those weighty and
complicated points which they neceflarily involve,
are likely to be so speedily decided ot brought with
in so short a compass as to have any influence on
the prcfeiit measure. There is, indeed, ont possi
ble cafe, which 1 reluctantly notice, arid which I
sincerely tiuft will, in the present instance, be avert
ed, which might render the rcfult of negociation
matter of such speedy issue, namely, that some oc
currence (hould take place, or some proposition be
ftartcd in its very outset, of such a nature se at
once to put a negative bw all our hopes of peace,
and to put a (lop to all farther proceedings. But
if we (hall be ultimately fuccefsful i« the gtand ob
jftt of all onr v.'ifties, jt is not the.space of a "Tingle
week which can give any definitive turn to the com
plexion of negociation, fat less decide the impor
tant issue. But-if from the magnitude and impor
tance of the questions to be difctiffed, it (hould be
necefTary to adopt a plan of negociation more ex
tensive, and likely to be p atradted for a considera
ble period, it is reasonable that during all the time
we lUoul.l submit to the pressure of an evil, which
so long exilts, muff continue to weigh down our
prolperity, and which wc possess the means inflant
ly torc»iovf, if \ye have only the energy to exert
it !"
BOSTON, januaiy 2 1.
From the Weft-Indies,
By the schooner Raven, Capt. Ambrose Martin,
which arrived at Marblehead on Monday evening last,
in 38 days from St. F.uftatia, we have the following
ifite I■ ucc—On the 4th of December, tjire* (hips of
•he line and oik frigate, under Britifli colours, came
down Matia Road, and commenced an attack up.on
the town, and the Medee French frigate and a (loop
of war. and after firing two hours (in which time
they were well aofwered from th(t tort and the two
French (hips) they returned, without doing the least
damage to the town or the F'rei>ch (hips, excepting
lodging about 60 shot in the empty stores. But in
their progress, they committed , n action, which will
Hand recorded an eternal difgracf in their naval history
—Capt. Benjamin pi/imond, in a (loop belonging to
Salem, that very morning .carried in by a French pri
vateer, being bound to Antigua from Charleston, then
lying in the Road, was wantonly run down bv one of"
the Britifli (hips of war f and his Mate, one lailoc, and
a black and a white bey were drowned, and the vsffel
an<j cargo entirely loft. Another (hip endeavoured to run
down Capt. Martin's schooner. The Mate only was
on board ({he crew having all died) and perceiving
their indention, endeavoured to cut the cable, but not
being aliV- to effect this, he loosened it, and the schoon
er fell off, the (hip jjift pafljng her. One of the crew,
as file passed, threw a billet of wood at the Mate, from
the forecaftle —and an Officer, looking over the quar
ter, ordered the " Damn Yankee Rascal to hawl
down his colours" —which was immediately complied
vdth. But not content with this, veering his (hip,
he fired ? broad fide into the fchooner —and there
w«re J9 fliet in her main-fail, 4 (hot in the main-mast,
two of which remain there, and a I4lb. (hot-puffed
thro* the schooner's quirter, and lodged in the lower
hold in a barrel of fwe«t oH—^-which (hot Capt. Martin
has prefecved and brought heme, as a lifting memorial
of the Amity of Great Britain to this Country. N.B.
—Capt, Martin's schooner is exa&ly " seventy tons"
burthen.
Capt, Diamond, finding his vessel loft, endeav
oured at the hazard of his life, to preserve his
ctew—he hired two Negroes and a boat to go off
and take up his men—hut the Negroes finding the
(hot flew so thick, refufed to go off, and neither
threats or perflation could»make them go. Capt.
Diamond then went on board a Danish brig, where
t.e was molt -brutally treated, and threatened to be
thrown overboard. While on board the Danish
brig, Captain B>. saw one of his men at mad head,
waving his handkerchief tor afliliance—but alas 1
he could not reliete him, and he with three of his
companions, periftted, victims to Bntifh infslence
and wickedness.
Capt- D. has entered his proteii against this un
warrantable proceeding.
Capt. Martia Supplied Capt. Diamond (who
has thus by the ruffian hand of violence been depriv
ed of his all) with money, and offered him a pas
sage in his vessel—as did Capt. Story, of Marble
head, with whom he took passage for Philadelphia.
He was also supplied with cloatbing, board, See.'
by a gentleman of St. Euftatia. Previously he had
applied to the American Consul, who refufed to
give hits auy aUiitance whatever
On the 29th Nov. the French attacked the If!-
•>u<f of Afguilla, «?>d took h "• A er ' tiii'i-ig they
fvund 15 F'e ;ch prifonera r.ecerirly butchered-
which f<» txafpcrated the Fie. -b CusiMWift, that
he gave orders to spare no one, anJ gave the town
up to'plundcr—which ordcis wee punctually exe
cu ed | and thi>fc inhabitant who could i.ot ef.-ape
irtt 'lie country, all perished. After this unfortu
na aft of retaliation, and the whole town wascen
iusied, :he French returned to St. Martin's.
While' Captain Martin was at 'Statia,'
bottomed Brj ifb (hip, leaded with claved
and coffee, from Martinique bound to L ;don,
with twelve 6 plunders and 20 men, was,captured
and brought in by a small French privateer fcfioou.
er, with eight 4 plunders, and 50 men. 81.e fold
for 7500 joes at au£tion.
Capt, MacCartney, in a schooner belonging to
BoHph, from London to Demcrara, was captured
by a Briti sh Frigate, and ordered for Matinique,
with a prize-master and 8 seamen, Git their pas
sage thither, Capt. McCartney, with the fuper-gar-t
go, and his son, fjcuiid the Englishmen below and
hie veffcl. A (hort time after, being at
: helm, with loaded piltols in the wailtband of hit
small clothes, he received a blow from the tiller, and
«ne of his piilols went off, and wounded him in the
thigh'morully. He then gave up the veflel again,
and released the Englishmen. She was carried imp
Fort Royal, where Capt. McCartney (hortly died
ef his wound.
Every article, except Rum, Molasses, and Hides,
are prohibited at Martinique, except 100 wt. of
■coffee, and iop wt. sugar, for each veffcl as (lores,
DELAWARE STATE LEGISLATURE.
IN SENATE.
FROM THIJ JOURNAL.]
Wednesday, January 18.
The following refutation was laid on the table
for the cenfideratiou of the Senate:
Whereas all governmeuts ooght to he formed for
the good of the citizens who compotjhUhe fame,
and the right of making, altering,
any particular form of government, is inherent is
the people ; and it is declared hy the eonftitufioti
of the United States, that a stile may be formed by
the junction of two or moie states, or parts of
dates, with the consent »f the legislatures of the
ltates concerned; ss well as of Congrcis. And
whereas many of the good citizens of this (late
apprehend that its territory is toe small, and the
resources thereof inadequate to the talk of fupport
i»g a frame of government calculated to promota
the happiness and fei«re the and liberties of
the good people thereof, without impoling on them
a burden exceeding their ability ; and ii is the
opinion of this legislature, that their conltituentt
(hould be confultcd on a fubjeft so important (9
their general welfare.
Therefore Resolved,
By the Senate and Houfc of Reprefentativees of
the (late of Delaware, That the citizens in the
several counties throughout this (late are hereby
recommended at the general election *f representa
tives on the firll Tuesday of Oftobcr next, to de»
clare their opinions of the present form of govern
ment of this ttate, by voting also by ballot for or
agaiuft a t'iffoltition of the fame, as they (hall
severally choose to do j and if (halj
appeal that a majority of all the citizen's voting fur
representatives, have voted in favor of a dissolution
of th. • efent form of government —then the next
legislature of this Hate (hall take such measures a*
to their wisdom (hall seem proper for obtaining the
consent of the legislatures' of Maryland and Vir
giuia, and ot Congress, for uniting their territories
on the east. fide of the Chesapeake bay, with ths
territories of this (late, so that the whole peninsula
may form one entire (late, under such frame of
government and name, as (hall be agreed upon by
the representatives of all the territories in general
convention met ; or the consent of the legislature of
Pennsylvania, or of Maryland, and of Congress, soy
uniting this (late with Pennsylvania, or Maryland,
in such manner as (hall seem moll proper, and belt
calculated to promote the only end of all legitimate
government—the rights, liberties, and happiness of
the people.
Saturday, January 21.
Having resumed the consideration of the fore
going resolution, and on the question to adopt the
fame, it was carried in the affirmative with only
one dissenting vote, and sent to the House of Re.
prefentatives for concurrence.
1 —1 1 , ■■
, PRINTERS
Who have inserted Advancements at the rtqueft of the
Editor of this Paper, are defiredto forward their aecoumt*.
Jaunary 30 §6t
■—— — '•
WATCH LOST-
T OST, on moaday last, a silver stop Watch, makers'
JL j names, " Hauxhurft and jDoult, New-York,, 809",
on the face, hour-hand in a small circle ; t'ue minute-hand
revolving in a larger. Whoever has found, and will ro
turn the fame to J a mis Edger, corner of Second and
Catherine Streets, (hall receive 10 .Dollars reward. If ofj
fercd for sale it is rcquefted it may be stepped.
January 30 4t
FOR THE BENEFIT OF
Mr. and Mrs. Tompkins,
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS'j AMPHITHEATRE.
For EqutsTßiAN and Stase Performances.
Corner of Chelnyt and Sixth-streets.
TO-MORROW EVENING, T.efday, Jan. 31,
By Particular Desire,
Don Juan ;
Or, THE vLIBERTINE DESTROYED
MR. MCKETTS wilj in particular on that eveaiog go thro*
a variety of Performances in the
Eqireftrian Exercises.
A new comic Song, called
THE TINKER,
By Mr. Sully.
The whole to conclude with the comic Pantomime of
ROBINSON CRUSOE}
Or, Harlequin Friday.Bank of the United S^tes,
December 26th-, '1796.
WHEREAS the following described *Ctertilic4te«
of Public Debt, credited in the books sf the Trealury,
and of Stock of the Bank of the United States, were
loft with the brig Peggy, John Hyer, mailer, on her
pjflage to London —Therefore notice is hereby given,
' that application wili be nude for others of the fame
deleription agreeably to the rules eltablifhcd at the
Trealury and Bank of the United States refpedlively.
CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC DEBT.
Date&.No. In whose favor issued. Dolls. Cis.
Mar. 4,1796.
-3169& ? Walter Boyd, 2of icooo each def.alTu.
*170 )
I '7' to j ditto 6 5000 do.
»i 76 S ,
2L77 ditto » 54®' 93 do *
Feb. 1. <"1 '
14036 Fermin de Taftet, 1 3?oo 6 per et. dom.
Mar. 4.
14376 Francois Gde Tourfies, 1 400.1 do.
j4077 ditto ' 47 4 }°'
jcaS Diego Dittmer, 1 *>74 44 do.aliu.
' 3i a 9 duio . 1 1169 15 do.
Icb ' l6> a A A
,4034 ditto * 3199 4 s do. dqm.
Mar. 4.
14078 Jofcph Lueas 1 3000 do.
' 3527 ditto » 1000 do.atlu.
Feb,l6.
14035 Pares & Heygake, 1 ®6j2 5® . do. dom.
3517 ditto » 4* do.afTu.
«6iß ditto > 3 ,J0 ° 3 par ct. do.
Mar. 4.
10834&( F.C. Pourrat, vtuve ) each do.dom.
10835 leCoulteulx, ) 0
10836 ditto » 559 1 10 , d °-
<4536 to) lto 6 5000 each do. affu.
2641 )
264J ditto » 209 6 a 8 do "
Feb ' 6 - ' 1 r ,
*9273 Elizabeth Rutt, 1 I4°co def. dom.
2160 Edward Steers, 1 do * a^"u .
9274 ditto 1 44° 7° do.dom.
Mar. 4
9303 Hannah Shelly 1 *562 23 do. do.
2635'°| Si ' Ben > Thom P fon '3 S°'-° ( ( "affumcd. Ct '
2167 Rrv. G. K. Whatley, 1 2000 def. affu.
2168 ditto 1 > 6 °° do - do-
CERTIFICATES OF BANK. STOCK.
Datesl&No. In whofelavor lifutd.
Jan. i- >796-'
19609t0) Mjfftph Atkinfon, ccf 1 share.
19613 ) " "
*046 1 boraas Audrey 3 i" arcs *
4112 ditto 2 fh>res.
387]
50<5
7123 Y William Barnard, 7 1 'hare.
19259
IO «
igaftl J
3076 & Blair, 2 5 S,,re,>
"38 )
964&) 2 to lhares
!95 ) di " 0 . 4 (barest
s ®s4 ditto
13227 & ) 2 1 (hare.
1256s 'Rev. David Bogue,
600 ' l 5
■ fihn Martin de Havilland , 4 {hares.
ditto a , fcjles .
*959 &)
*962 ) Samuel Etheridge, , a lhj.es.
5 9 6 7 ditto 6 5 lhares.
95 'O 100 Joshua Grigby, jun. a
ilo?a { Mrs. Sarah Harrris,
4 4 /u L „ ■ \ 1
3104 ( Henry 14th, Prince }
( Reufs dc Plauen, ) j 3 [hares.
2 4'3& ) "
1414 ) d,tto l 5 (hares.
ditto 1 5 (hares,
*54 Nathaniel Le Cocq, a 5 lharee.
£5 & 2221 Wm PeterLeCocq, 1 £ lhares.
2 539 Jofcph Lucas, « 5 ihaies.
) Thomas Mullet, 3 1 (hare.
*957'' ) Tlloma> Rjike »> 4 5 (hares.
"93 d "»o 1 ltfhares.
*867
»868 ) Wl " iam Raikc«, s 5 (hares.
3 9 8 5 ditto * 7 (hares.
392 ditto l 3 (hares.
4067 Rev.Cha. Richards, 1 * Charts.
& j ditto 4 1 {harl
-5714 Charles Steers, 1 . i (hare.
2950 ditto I 10 (hares.
3084 ditto , , lhares.
lgigt & ) . .
I j.-ge j James Steers, a , each,
539 George Watson, i 5 Ihaies.
iawfiw G.SIMPSON, Cashier.
LANDS FOR SALE.
TO be fold by Public Auiftion, on Wednesday the
ill day of February next, at the Merchant's
CofFee-houfe, in the city sf Philadelphia, at 6 o'clock
in the evening, sundry Trails of Land, being part of
theeftate of Benjamin Town, late of New-Jtrfey, de
ceased, viz.-—
Two tra&s, one of 315 1-4 and the other 302 1-4
acres, in the townlhip of Wyoming, county of Nor
thumberland, and state of Pennsylvania, conveyed by
deed, dated 17th September, 1782, from Aaron Levy
and wife, to Benjamin Town.
One trail of 31 1 acres, on the dividing of Mahoning
and FiJhing creeks, in the county aforel'aid, granted to
Benjamin Town, by warrant,' aßtli February, 1775.-
One trail of 150 acres, near or adjoining the lift
mentioned trail, in the fame county, f ranted to Ben
jamin Town, by warrant, 2sth February, 1775.
One tract of 300 acres, on afmall branch of Jacob's
creek, in the county of Weftmoreland, Hate of Penn
sylvania, coniwyed by deed, dated loth February,
1782, by William Perry to Benjamin Town.
Ten trails of 1000 acres each, «n the waters of
Little Kenhawa river and Big Steer creek, in the coun
ty of Monongahalia, ftata ef Virginia, per patent, dated
10th July, 1786.
Further particulars and terms of payment will be
made known atthe time and place offale.
JOHN FIELD, ) ™ „
CURTIS CLAY, 5 T,uftees -
Philadelphia, January 28, 1797. 4t
Notice to the Poor.
THE Guardians of the Poor will deliver bread to the
Poor ofthe City and Liberties of Philadelphia, on
Tuesday the 31ft instant, at Friends' Meet;ng-houfe,
at the corner of High and Second streets, between the
hours of ten and twelve, agreeably to the last wills of
Jonathan Petty and Williim Carter, deceased.
January 28, 1797. f,t
For Sale,
At the Office of the Editor of t">: Gazette of the
United States, I
A FF.W COPIhS OF
" An account ot the Receipts and
Expenditures ef the United States,, for the year 1795.'
January aB, 1797.
Porcupine's Gazette.
Propolkls by WILLIAM CObBETT, oppolite Christ
Church, Philadelphia, for publi(hing a news-paper,
' v to be entitled
Porcupine's Gazette, $S* Daily Advertiser.
Methinks 1 hearthe reader exclaim ; " have
we not Gazettes enough already ?" Yes, and far t»o
many: but those that we have, are, in general, con
duiled in such manner tlrat their great number, in
llead of rendering mine unnecessary, is the only cause
that for its eftabliihmcnt.
The gazettes in this country have done it more real in
jury than all its open enemies ever did or can do. They
mislead tlie people at home and misrepresent them a
broad. It was these vehicles of sedition and discord
that entouraged the counties in the Well to rebel ; it
was they that gave rife to the depredations of Britain,
by exciting the people to such ails of violence against
t:iat nation, as left no room to ctoiibt that we were de
termined on war ; ami it was they, when an accom
modation had been happily effeiled, that llirred up an
opposition to it such as has seldom been witneiTed, and
whieh was overcome by mere chance. These gazettes
it was, that, by mifrcprefenting the dispositions of the
people, encoifraged the French to proceed from one
degree of infelenceto another, 'till at last their Minis
ter braves the President ill his chair, aad a bullying
commander comes and tells us that his only bufinefi is
to feizc our vellels, in violation of a treaty, in virtue
of which alone he claims a right to enter our potts : and
it is these gazettes that now have the impudence to de
fend what their falfehood and malice have produced.
1 ihall be told that the peopl* are to blame ; that
they are not obliged to read these abominable publica
tions. But they do read them; and thoulands who
read them, read nothing else. To fupprels them is Im
possible ; they will vomit forth their poison ; it is a pri
vil*ge ef their natures, that no law <ian abridge ; and
therefore the only mode left is, to counterail its effeils.
This must be done, too, in theirown way. Books,
or periodical publications in the form of books, may
be of some ferviee, but are by no means a match for
their flying folios. K f&lfebeod that remains uncontra
dicted for a month, begins to be looked upon as a truth,
and when the detection at last makes its appearance, it
is often as useless as that of the doitor who finds his
patient expired. The only method of opposition, then,
is to meet them on their own ground ; to set foot to
foot ; dispute every inch and every hail's breadth ;
fight them at their own weapons, and return them two
blows for one*
A gazette of this ftarap is what I have long wilhed to
fee, but I have wilhed and expeilfd it in vain. Indig
nation at the fupinenefs of otheis has at last got the
better of all diffidence in my own capacity, and has de
termined me to encounter the talk. People have heard
one fide long enough ; they (hall now hear the other.
CONDITIONS.
1. Porcupine's Gazette shall be ofthe uftial Cze,
and' the fubfeription Eight Dollars a year, to be paid at
the expiration ef eauh half year.
a. Advertiferaents will be inserted at half the usual
price, which will always be required in ready money.
3. The Censor, containing those pieces from the
gazette that may appear wor th preserving in a more
portable form, with fudi amplifications and amend
ments as time may give rife to, shall be published
monthly, and each fubferiber (hall be entitled to a copy,
delivered with his paper at the end of the month,
4. If a fufficient number of fubferibers be obtained
the firft number of the Gazette shall appear on, or be
fore the sth of March.
N. B. A fubfeription book is now open at my (hop,
opposite Chrift'-church, whithergent!;mniin the coun
try, who wilh to fubfcrijje, are requeued to fend their
names.
Subscriptions are taken at Boston by Mr. James White,
bookseller ; at Salem, by Mr. Deben.y, palt-malter ;
at New-Haven by Mr. Beers, bookseller ; at Newbu
ry.port, by Aflr. E. Blunt, bookseller; at Ne..'-York,
by Mr. S. Campbell, bookseller ; at Baltimore, by Mr.
G. Hill, bookseller; at Chester-town, Marylaud, by
Mr. James Arthur, poft-maller ; at EaUoit, do. by
Mr. Greenbury Nesl ; at Frederick-town, do. by
Meflrs. Isaac and John Mentz ; at Richmond, Virg.
by Meifrs. Pritchard and Davidfon ; at Norf®lk, by
Melfi-s. Rainbow and Hannah ; and at Charleflon, by
Mr. Young, bookseller.
Jan. 28. eoiot.
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4t]i proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glaf6 Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different, lizes
Hazlenuts, in lacks \
Whiting
Copperas ( ■ ...
White Lead ( «
& Spanish Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE,
No. 63 South Third ftcsetjoppofite the national new Bank" '
SAMUEL M FR AUNCES and JOHN VAN- REED",
have entered into co-partnerfliip, under the firm of ,
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every fpecics of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Monev procured on deposits, &c. &c. r all kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatrttfiand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
moil corred. manner. Conflant attendance will be given.
They folieit a share of the public favor ; they ire deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmoil secrecy observed.
SAMUKL M. f RAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED-
Pkllad. Aupuft 27, 1706. m&wtf
Houses and Lots for lale,
BY the Subscriber, in the town of Well-Cheller, Ches
ter county, 1$ milas from Philadelphia, on the great
(late-road, leading Wcftward Viz: No. 1. A two-flory
Stone House, the corner of High and Gay streets, 40 feel
front by 34 feet Jeep ; including a very convenient flore
heufe : the House contains ten wdl-fi.iifiied rooms, a kit
chen and entry : the Lot is 144 feet front on Gay-street,
—equal to any Hand in W«(l-Chefler. No. a. A two-flo
ry llt.nc houft: adjoining, tj fee: front,/containing eleven
well-finifhed rooms, both being ceiled in the garrets, house
and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c.—cellars
under both houses, witii good stables on the lots. These
Houses are almost new, done by good workmen, in a
raafierly manner. No. 3. a Lot 4a feet front. No'. 4,
34 feet. No- 5, 44 feet. No. 6, 119 feet, all of them
ten rods deep. On two of the above are ereiled three log
and frame houses, two stories high, cellars tinder the
whole, and a (mall liable to each*
The above Lots axe iituated near the Court-Houfe. The
wh ole will be exposed to PUBLIC S ALE, on the a ift and
aad days of February next, at two o'clock, when the con
ditions will be made known Poifisiiion may be had the
firft of April next. is indisputable.
JOHN KINNARD.
January »8 <|2aw3w
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, Na. 64,
, Soul/j Sccond-Jlriet.
SCHEME of 7LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, to an Aft ol
the Legifliture of Pennsylvania, pa{Tcd daring the ia'c
feflion, tor building a Stonr Bridge over the River
Schuylk.il], at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks, Dollars.
1 Prize of 20.000 Dollar* - 20,000
1 do. of to.ooo do. - - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. » 1,5,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - 8,000
20 do. of 1,00,0 do. ... 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - - *9150®
80 do. of 200 do. - 16,000
aQo do. of 100 do. - »0,000
300 do. of 50 do. 1 000
i do, of 500 do. to be paid the poflef- >
for f the firft drawn no. J
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid poffeflors £ oo
of the five last lirawn uos
0,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
10,054 Prizes . 300,000
19,946 Blanks •
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
AH Prizes fhali be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finilhed, upon the demand of a poflefior of a fortunate
licket, fubjett to a deduction Of twenty per cent. The
Drawing wiil commence as loon as the Tickets are dtipaAa
of, o'r perhaps so >ner. of which public notice will be fctfen.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, WiHian} Wii'tah,
Joftph Hicjler, James Diemer, Thomas Duiidas,
Jamet Mciy> John Otto y John Keim, Daniel Graejf y
Sebaflian Miller, Commissioners. j
Reading, May th£ 9th, 1795.
Tickets in tke Canal Lottery, No. », to be had at the
above office, where the earliest information of th <3 draw
ing of the Waffcington No. 2, and Patterfoa Lottery's,
are received, and check books for examination ar*} regif
teringare kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery to ba had at A/fr, Sheri
dkn'i Rate-street, John Hay, North Third-iirect and
Heary Swear's, German Town.
January 26 aawtf
For Sale, "
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel. ,
Smoaked Horring in barrels and k<egs
Ditto Salmon, by the doien or (ingle one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals t
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December I §t(
CAM IL LA,
Or APidture of Youth. /
By the authoress of Eveli*a and Cecilia, to be com
priftd in five volumes', at half a dollar each, payable
on delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
Bull.
CONDITIONS.
T. Handsome, neat type, perfectly new, is em
ployed.
11. A volume, Hitched in blue paper, is intended
to be published every a weeks, till the five are com
pleted ; the firft and second are come to hand, and the
third is hourly expedled. Subscriptions are received,
and Books may be had of J. OKMROD, No. 41,
Chefnut-Itreef*
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the laurels (he has already acquired in the
literary world. The strength of imagination and ele
gance of style, tlifplayed in Evelina and Cecilia, will
fufficiently lecommcnd to every reader of taste and
judgmtat, the perusal of Camilla.
It may not be improper to add, that the Queen of
England, after having perused this intereiling publi
cation, prefcnted Mrs. D'Arblay with a thousand
pounds sterling, as a teftimouy of her approbation of
the work.
lanuorv n eotf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No, 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for Sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes'paid in
frhe late lottery.
f Check Books kept for examination and n giilering, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information whfre
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Motel an 4 Public for
examination.
The fubibriber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Htaifes, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Tea Dollars each, which will be driwn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 16, 1797. rfith
This Day is Published,
liy BIOREN MADAN, at their Printing Office,
No. 77, Dock-tyreet, and fold by the principal
Book fillers in this City.
The American Annual Register ;
Or historical Me.noirs of the United States, for the
Year 1796.
No. 1671.
DijlnS of Pinnjylvaniai to wit :
Be it remembered, that on the 19th day of January
in the Twenty-fi»ft year of the Independence of the
United States of America, Biore.i & Madan of the faiii
dittridl have deposited in this Office the title of a Book
the Right whereof they claim as Proprietors in the
worijs following to wit:
" The American Annual Register, or Historical
" Memoirs of the United States, for the year 179;-.
In conformity to the a<st of the Congress of the
United States entituled " An a& for the encourage
ment of learning bys securing the sopies of Maps,
Charts and Books, to the authors and pioprietors of
such copies during the time therein mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell,
Clerk Puiniylvania Diflridt.
January 25. v iav. 4
Elegant BrulTels & Turkey Carpeting
?or sale by George Dobfon, Ns. is,Soutlt Third-ftrset.
December ij. 4 t f
Oi'ty cf Vv'iiihla"ton.
« • »• o
SCHEME fthe LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR rh£ IMPKOVmiNT 0 The.
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & >
dwefling-houfe, j calh 30,000, are 3 5 o ,»0»
I ditto 15,000 & cash 25,00 a 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 £c cash 10,000 2o,«oo
1 i'itto 5,000 & caih 5,0e0 io.coo
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of io,oo»
i do. 5,000 each, are ■ , 10,000
lo do. I,ttoQ - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000 J
Oo do. 100 - - lo,oo«
200 do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
I, jog do. 20 - 20,000
lstOO® do. 10 - JsV,toa
i 6,739 Prizes.
Blankt.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, ihe prize of 40,000 dollars will be the l,.jt drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
Anil approved notes, securing payment in either mor»y
or prize*, in ten days alter drawing, wili be received for
any number not lels than 30 tickets.
I his Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of 'J c pri
vate buil lings to be cr. ited in the City of VVafhington—
1 wo beautiful designs are already fei'tiled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawittgt
it ispropofed to erecl two centre and four corner bandings,
as foou as poflible after this lotte'ty is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the fchemcfor tlic Hotel Lottery.
A nett deau&ion of five per tent, will be made to defray
the necefTary expenses of printing, the iurplu.
will be made a part of lAe fund intended for the .National
L'nivetfity, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the cicitets ire
old off.—-The raoney prizes will be payable in thirty dayt
after it is ftnifhed i and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after ths
drawing is closed, are to be coirfidercd as given towards
the fun* for the Uuiverfity; it being determined to fettle
the whole bufmefs in a year from the eiding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real fecuritiesgivcn for the payment ot thePiizes,
are held by the President and two Direaors of the Biflik
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commissioners aflifled in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake thio arduous talk
X second time on behalf ef the public ; a fuflicient nuna
>'r of these having kindly accepted, -t is hoped that she
iends to a National University and the fcthcr federal ob
jects may continue to favor the deiign.
/'y accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the ticket*
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that th«
drawing will fficedily commen»e, and that the care and
caation unavo-ithbiy neceilary to infute a fafe difpoial of
th« tickets, has rendered the (Bur: suspension indiipemablif.
SAMUEL BLODVBT.
,§. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colombia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boflon ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry.
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market- Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPOR I ED, by the late arrivals from
Lyndon, a large ifTortment of IVARRAXT LD
IVAI CHES, civ.fiiting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecoiads, of fiiperior
workmanship and elegance ; aifo capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewtll'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Wai. tors';
e:gln day & chamber Clocks ; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day ancj thirty hotir, bral's
works, &c.
Decembet 22, 1796. d2m
This Day is Published,
Br 810 RES and MA DAN,
And to be Sold at, their Printing-Office, in Dock
ftreet ;by M. Carey, No. 113, Market-street ;
fhomas Bradford, South Front-ffreet, and
George Donglafj, No. 2, South Third-street,
(Price, neatly bound, two dollars)
AN ENQUIRY
Concerning Political Justice,
And its Influence on Morals and Happirtefs,
By William Godwin.
THE reputation of this work is already well esta
blished in Europe—lt is hardly necelfary for an Ame
rican editor to fay more than barely to mention, that
the Enquiry concerning Politieal Juiiice has evet
fince its publication been a favorite performance with
the friends of republican government. The ffile it
pure, nervous, and classical; the ideas are
marked by an original vein of thinking ; and, amonglt
a multitude of dther just and striking pafiages, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities inlepa
ra'oie from the condition of a King, may be pointed
o>lt as a most mafteriy fpeeimen of philosophical d.f
quilition. Ihe latest London edrtion of this work
i'ells in this city at four dollars and an half.
January 24 d3taw2w
Hibernian Society.
Such of the Membtrs of this society as are entitled ta
Diplomas, are rtquelted to apply for them to
Mr. Hugh Holmes, Vice- President;
Mr. David M' Ccrmick, Treasurer ;
Mr. Robert H. Drinker, (ounjcliar ;
Mr. JoJeph Brown ;
Mr. Edward Fox ;
Or to MATHEW CAREY, See. '
Philad. Jin. 21, 1797. t aw6 t
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A valuable SOnP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate
in x convenient part ot the city ; the works aimoli new,
on an entirely original conftruftion, and built or the belt
materials, and may be set to woik immediately. Peifom
who with to purchase, are requested to apply at No 273,
South Second Street. September' 13. t 1 f tf /
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNOM
—No. T 19 —
CHKSNUT-STRHET.
[P*icc Dollars p«r 0