of tiyt and Pbiladelphia Daily Adz-ertiser.
I'M VEX I 5 10. J
For Amsterdam.
* the ship
Four Friends,
* f Joseph Glenn, Matter ;
ls f. tcr part of her cargo bein# ready. For
i« tight or paifage apply to the captain or. hoarder
JcJfe Hob. Wain.
.'"'y "• > dtf
For Savannah,
j —*** The Ship
SWIFT packet,
Gribbeo, Matter,
t.r'-i'.'-'-i 1 "\J OW lyingat Wilcoiks' wharf,
j and will positively fail oji
Saturday, j5 th inft. She is handsomely acoommo
/? •» P affcj^i?r3 > a "d fails well. For freight
• 4 palTage a ?p'y to the mailer on board, or
N. & y, Frazier,
Npf.
9?' South Froot-ftreet.
_ WHO if AVE FOR SALE,
Prime Rue in ivbole and half
tierces.
J u 'r 8 - -{ti s th
For Hamburgh,
CHARL O*T T E,
C. F. Danenberger, Majler.
r ILL be ready to receive the cargo in a few
V V day#, and is a fall failing (launch, good vef
"fe), well found—For freight or pailage, apply to
George Pcnncck,
No. 103, Markel-fireet.
July 7. Jjivjw
LANDING,
At Walr.ut-flreet wharf, from on bond fbip Map
' c!"«(cr, Beqj. Shewell, tnlifter, from Bourdeaux,
Bourdeaux Brandy .
Old Claret in -hhds.
Medoc Wine in cases
Sauterne do. do.
For Sale by
Thomas Murgatroy4,
No. IJ, IValnut fired.
Said Ship for Freight or Charter,
_r~ ji—, Burthen »8o tons, Philadelphia
built of live Oak and Cedar, will
iTi read X to a few days.
Apply as above.
July s- mwf
For Sale,
The fine and remarkably faft
Virginia and Philadelphia
1 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rofs & Sim/on.
June 12. tjtf
For Sale,
"The cargo of the brig Enterfrizc, Captain
J-angdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
CONSITING OF
J24 bhds. of Claret "j £ .
al7 casts of ditto | -c "£
100 cpfes ofSvcetOil 2
no pipes London proof } |"S %
'o pipes of Holland pw>of j BR VD> °J M
Apply to
Wharton Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
WILL ,lk ' a FREIGHT for
JtVi'' Welt-Indies or Europe, fails 1
faftj burthen about fifteen hun
jred barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few day 9 <
Apply as abo'vo.
May 14 [ $
, - ■
Injurance Company of North A
merica.
r PHE Dividend for the last half year, declared
A by the Directors this day, is one dollar on r
each fbare of tke Stock of this Company ; which
will be paid to the Stockholders, or their reprefeH- I
tatives duly authorised to receive it, at any time al
ter the zeth inrt. fl
EBEN HAZARD, Sec'ry. t>
July 10. w&ftacth v
The Subscriber n
GIVES notice to all to whom he may \>e indebt- t.
Ed, that he intends to embark for Europe in a frw
d-'-ys; and that he will not pay any demands which
ihall not be prrfented to him prior to his departure.
Wm. SMITH, of South-Carolina.
No. 104/ Sprice-ftreet.
Philadelphia, nth fuly. , t4
The Shareholders
Of the Pennsylvania Population Company, {:
ARE requelled toWet at the Compaq 's Of- I
sice, No 53, North Fourth Street, on Saturday h.
the 15th inft. at t» o'clock. £
By order of the Board, fa
SOLOMON MARACHE, Sec'ry. a
J"'y '• Ji6t.
Bank of North America.
f v >4* '» 1 797- bl
At a meeting of the Direflors this day, a di- in
\tidend of Six Per Cunt, was declared for the A
last half year, which will b« paid to the Stock- ul
holders or their representatives, at any time at- tc
ter the lolh inft.
J"'y '■ dzw.
George Dobfon,
No, 25 South Third' Stree t, J
HAS imported per ftiips William Penn, Star, eS|
and Diana, from Loudon,
j-4iSuper London Chintz, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Mullinetts and Dimities.
Fashionable Waiftcoating, newest patterns.
Ribbands well assorted,"in small trunks- '
4-4 j-4 a«d 6- 4 India and Britilh Book-muf
.lius.
Fancy,Cloatbs and Caflibiers.
Th<? whole to *be difpofetj of cheap for Cash
or Notes cf a ihort date,
June 14,'97.
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, JULT i» 1707
LANDING,
AT South-street Wharf, from on boprd fchoOn
tr Expeditior, captain Hardirig Williams,
from St. Thomas, a Cargo of
Coffee, -Sugar, and Rum.
, For Sale by
or F Coppinjer,
No. 221, South Frort-Jlreet.
.July 10. § jot
Wants Knrploymenr,
IN a store, a Man who can be well recommenc
ed, write? a good |iand, and understands ac
» eompts. Apply at No. 50, North Fifth Street, and
» Cherry-alley. reputable place will suit.
>n July 10. 4 *3t
0- ■—_____________
A Wet Nurse Wanted.
A Healthy Woman with a good breast of
milk, may hear of a place by applying at
the Printing Offiee of this paper.
Y July 10. * 3 t
Health-Office, Philadelphia, 'Jth June, lj<yj.
r I BoarJof Health offer to rent out the NJiW
_ ± CITY HOSPITAL, usually called The Wig
iv am.
It may be occupied as a Tavern, for which there
are excellent accommodations. The person taking
it must be capable and wiling to a<2 in the capaci
'» l v a Steward; in cafe a cor.tageous disease in '
the city, lhould at any time rtnder it neceflary to j
*• make use of the premises as a Hospital. It cannot
"' therefore ba let for any limited time—and the red
f- painted frame building is to be reserved. Propsfah
in writing will be received at this office, stating
what rent will be allowed under the
cumAanees. None apply without being able
to produce the best recommendations.
JOHN MILLER, Jan.
Chairman of the Beard of Health.
Ju'y 8
Thefubiime Theory of the celebrated
Franklin realised.
j MAISON, desirous to ihew his gratitude
t0 the refpe&able Companies who do him
the honor to he preferit every evening at the Philo
sophical and Mechanical Experimfnts, executed by
thiee artificial pcrfons, informs the lovers of arts
, and fciencei, that TH|S EVENING, the 7th inft.
there will be a surprising addition to the Philofu
phic»l Experiments, which are i'o ably executfd by
j t ' lc artificial Lady: after having fired the C-.nnons
it 'Volta, melted metals through means of her in
flamed brcaft, &e. &c. Ihe will direct the ele&ric
fire oh a building, which, being provided with a
pointed condu&or, will remain perfectly fefe, but
having applied ametalic ball t-> the point, a fccond.
ftrokeof tht eledtric fire will fall on the fame, and
destroy it inilantaneoully.
1 This discovery alone is fufficient to iiifure to the
celebrated Franklin an undoubted right to the gra-
I titude of the public : it is in the country of this
great man that an European Philosopher (whoal
t ready at Paris obtained marks of his efteom) will
repeat this beautiful experiment, before his worthy
fel'ow citizens, in order to celebrate and honor the
memory of its author.
Thef'- experiments will continue every Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday evenings, at 8 o'clock rre
cifdy. in the dancing-room of Mr. M Douoail,
1 in Fourth-street, between C'hefnut ani Walnut
■ streets, arid will be varied and augmented.
Entrance half a dollar—rChildren, one quarter of
a dollar- July 7. —mw&ftf
Bejl Englijh Crown Window GlajT.
A wellafforted Invoiccofthe best Englilh Crown
Window Glafi, of the following sizes :
10 by 8 T .
11 by 9
ii by 10
14 by 10 212 BOI£ S.
16 by 11
19 by 14 J '
frefli kice, high proof Brandy, best
mess Beef, in half barrels.
Sail Cloth, No. I. to 8.,
Sherry Wine. ,
A few hundred weight of excellent Dutch Pistol ,
and Rifle Gun Powder—and, 1
Thirty Boxes Chocolate. <
For Sale by, <
Samuel Bred, fun.
No. 89, Sonth Thirdflreet. '
Jwe »*• eoiot. ,
NOTICE.
THE fubferiber having sent by the (hip Nancy, c
Capt. Perry, the lollowingcertificates of the
United States bank &Qck, to wit :
No, 26,0c5, to 16,014, inclusive, for three
ill ires each—and the said vessel having been cap- C
tured on her intended voyage to England, wh.ch c
will most probably rccafion the loss of the said
Certificates, gives this public notice, J
That he (hall apply at the proper offices for a re- f
newal of them, and that means have been taken f
to prevent any improper transfer. r
Henry Philips,
No. 11 a, South Front-street.
June 1. 3aw6w v
POST-OFFICE. I
Philadelphia, 6th fuly, '97. h
THE mail for New Caflle, Cantwell'j biidgc, ''
Duck Creek cross toads, Dover, Fredsrica, Mil*
ford, George Town (in the place of Claques J and I
Dagfborougb, tn Delaware ; Trap and Snow- {,
hill, in Maryland ; Horn Town, Accomack C.' o
H. and Northampton C. H■ in Virginia ; ill *1
be closed every Monday, Wednesday, ani Friday, A
at fun set- igt tl
Wanted on Rent,
WITHIN seven miles of Philadelphia, a tc
convenient House with a Garden, fuita- ?!
ble for the accommodation of a genteel small fa
mily, for which a suitable rent will be given.
Any person having ftich an one to let, will'be _
pleafedto leave information of the situation and
terms at No. 43, North Third street. _
June eo3t 1
tor bale, v r
THE time of a Mulatto Man, who has about 9
years to serve, underllands the care of Hon- C "
es, and is a good waiter. I".
Inquire of the Printer. P'
June 26. > lw c ;n
.—— Ho
fuft Publi/hed, go
And to be had of Mefli s. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice, th
Cary, and the other pricipal Beokfellers :n tie rn
ciy.price one dollar, twmty-fivccents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH SAB.TQN, m. d.
June 20. '6t
By John Fknnq, N°- 119 Cbefnut Street.
C A U T I O N.
WILLI AM t-H/.SKOS, AuCti
a!" nu fcj!t ' in oJ *yP'*M American
-Uai.y Advertjfsr of this day, a.iverifed for public
!' 1,11 '"-"iO'fuw the iith Want, a capital
building Lot, on the north fiiic of Mu!brr,v
ltreet, between Sixth and Seventh fltreeis, bound
ed and otherwHe deli ribed as in the fait! aeyer
tilement is mentj'oqed—All persons are hereby
cautioned not to pttrchafeU.e fame, as -he eauk
— table title Hiereto is veftd , , tiPrelide»t,"l')i
redtors, and Company of the Bant ®ir the United
States, who mean toprosecd at Uw tor the re-
covery thereof.
q. By order of the Directors,
ad Gejarge Simp/on, Cajhier.
J°'y 7■ . d2t.
1 he Commilfroners
JT OR carrying into effeCt the sixth irticle of t h=
D f treaty of amity,commerce and navigation, eon
eluded between hisßritann/cmajefty and th; United
States of America, <. the I<ydi day of November,
1794, having this day conltituted their Board,
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do herc
— by give notice, that they arc ready to proceed to
7. business accordingly; and they desire that al! claims
'V " n i', er t ' ,e article (which Jo far asthe fane de
f" the cases thcrehy provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
re out delay.
ig They lurcher desire that aU such claims may not
i- only hate in what manner the fpvera) cases coltte
m within the description of the said article, but also
.0 ipeciahy set lorth *he nature of the evidence by
5t which the claimants refpe&iveiy undertake to sub- 1
:d ftantiate tfca lan-.e.
h Extract from the said article,
'8 " herc&s it Is alJedged by divers Britifli mer
" '■'"ants, aud others kis majelt>'» fubje<fts, that
iv *-eL.ts to a conCdirablo amount, whi<;h were bona
tide contracted, before the peace, still remain
" owing to them by citiacu»«r. inhabitants of the -
" United States ; and that by the operation of va
_ " r ' OUB lawful impediments,' fmce the peace, not
V " °% the full recovery of the said debts has been
" delayed, but also the value and security thereof
" have been in/several instances impaired and Icff
" cnej, so that by tbe ordinary course of judicial
■ " proceedings, the Briti(h creditors cannot now
obtain and have and receive full and
'' " adequate compensation for the losses and dama
' " ges which tney have thereby fuf ained: It is a
* " greed that in all such cases >vhere ful[compenfa-
J " tion for luch losses and damages cannot for what- p
* ever reason be ailu dly obtained, bad and recei- si
Ted by the said creditors in the ordinary courfa t!
' " of justice, the United States will make full and n
" " complete compensation for the fame to the said v
■ " creditors: but it is diftinSly understood, that d
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as a
" have been occafloned by the lawful impediments C
" aforefaid, and is net to extend to losses occasion- si
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other ii
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro- e
" duce luch loss, if the said impediments had not v
" existed ; nor to lurh losses or damages as have n
' " been occafloned by the ounifeft delay, or ncgli- f<
' fc cil '-c, or wilful omillion of the claimant.*' tl
By order 0f the Board, .
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary % x
Philadelphia, Comtniffioners' Office,
No. 3, south Sixth-street, May ay,
. J 6—sim 6
IMb SUBSCRIBER hav g- been appointed by 5
the Envoy Extraordinary >d Minitter Pleni
: potentiary of hii(Britannic Majesty, General Agent
lor a (Biting Britilh creditor!, an i (uch particular a
genti as they may specially authorize, in profexuting
their claims bciorethe cammi{Loners for carrying io
to effeft the sixth article of the Treaty of Amity, Corn- Q
merceamd N*iigatio n between his Britannic bfoyjly and p
the United States of Amtrica, hereby gives notice that
he hai opened h»s offi e at his house the south east
corner of Chefnut and fifth streets, Philadelphia, A
where he is ready to receive all claims or intliuduous q
for claim* with th&youchers aud document*, thereof,
lor the purpose of briqging forward the feme agree
ably so the rules and- orders which tbe boaic may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the interest of al! concerned,
that the several claims be so ftaied, and fuppori-
cd, as to prevent the delay which wouid arile trom
the necelfiiy of obtaining further information, or ad- A
ditional maieriaJsjtrom persons residing at a distance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the H
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ J
ed particular agents, may leave the prolecution of th
their claims to his charge and management) that all dr
such claims ought in particular to fci totth— tr
lft. The proper deicription and fitnation of the 'j'j
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, f
ively. w
ad. The date and nature of the original contractor
debt.
3d. When, in wbat manner, and to wbat extent,
the creditor or claimant was prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or detect of law, the
pra&ice of courts, or tefhaint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
question*
4th The loss and damage incurred or fuilained,
ib consequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the insolvency, change of
fuuatioi), or death of tW debtor, thle loss of legal
remedy from laple of time, or othercaufea impairing
the value and (ecurity of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impedimenta had notexifted.
And sth The particular grounds and reaions on
which tbe claimant main:ains, in the terms of the
treaty, that '• by the ordinary cowrfe of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and attually
hav<; and receive full and adequate compensation" for
'the lofTes and damages fofuftaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to sug
gest that.the ft veral claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
Iworn and regularly attefled, both as to the exigence
of the debts claimed, and such other circumftancci
as may be within their own Knowledge re(pe£tively.
And wherever the claimants in stating the nature of
their evidence (which muifc in every inltanccfb? the
bed of which tUe <;aie is capable) have occasion to
refer to the teilimony ot witpeffes, it will be proper
to apprifethe general agent<>. the names and places «-
of rcfidcnce o» such witness and the fa£hto be elfa- '
billhed by their testimony.
IVm. Moore Smith. I bon
Philadelphia, June Bth, 1797. dnn dov
Z, " le » -
1 hat well known tailed Vjndegrifi' $ S
f I, #» V, Sou
ON Neihaminy cwek, 18 mile 9 from Phila- J
ladalphia, on the KewYork post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the,
piemifes are a large.two itoiy fione house occu
pied and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good thrediing
floor, and some out buiklings—alfo a,'well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elfgant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Mefham
iny to itsjundlion wii}> she Delaware, and thence
across to the Jerfcy ijjore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sabfcrifctr,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Way -4- atJwtf. J
r . Philadelphiai end Lancajier Turn-
P'b Company.
slie. . T , , , \ J-'y IC " J > r ?97
ital (* A , of the P.-efident aud M«nagcrs,a
i v- I Cjvidcnu of seven and a iialf dollars per Jh'are
nil- V "*'- lor 'he la(l half year, wliicli will be
... by the I'relident and Manager's for the
■Kv ? ur t J^ i , esi,f Paying the debts of the Com piny, u
/ 2 re =able to a resolution of the Stockholders the nth
J ' t - June last.
i d FR A'NCIS, Treasurer.
r _ from tLc Minutei of tbe Sud'jJ&rt.
.or, , June Ilth, 1797.
* Ktjolved)
That the fufcfcription opened for one hundred !
additional iha;js of llock, conformable to a rcfolu
tion of the nth January, 1796, he now closed,
and that the flock *>f the Company coiifift of
iwcJve hundred instead of thirteen hundred shares.
he Wm. C-OVETT, Secretary,
n- July 10. ni&tvi w nt&tu3 w
cvenin & next, the 11th i<:Tf.
ir, will be fold by public auction, at the Mpr
d, chants Coffeehoufe for account of the con
c- cerned, being deposited as collateral fectiripy.
Sundry Promissory Notes,
e- . _P rawn b y John Nicholfon in favour of, and
to "?. d ° rfed b y David Alllfon. The said notes are
2. 3 " ( * ue and have been regularly protested Ornon-
P'/mct. They have been originally given for
a tull and valuable conlideration —are clear of
le an y dispute or defalcation and will be received
0 equal to fpesic for (liares in the PennfyJvania
y Land Company and will of course be a great
1- objeft of speculation.
Approved endorsed notes at sixty days will be '
received in payment.
* July 6, r?o7. *dst '
1 Nathaniel Lewis & Son, ]
e have for fde at their Jlore, No. "JO, adjoining ■
- George Latimer & Son, Pinejfrcet IVharf,\
A Quantity of
f Madeira Wines
In pipe? and half pipes
adeira Walnutsand Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. C'opia
1 Mjo, i
2S Puncheons, second and third proof, Jfeft- S
India Ram, and a few Pipes of Brandy "
They have constantly on hand and for sale,
■ French Burs and Country Mill Stone, of various eL
fixes, and a general assortment of Boultiug Cloths o(
: the best quality, both American and Foreign ma
nufacture. The former having proved* from se
veral years experience of a number of millers in
different parts of rhe United States at lead equal, '
and in many instances superior to the European f
Cloths, we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw
f®n, will meet with liberal encouragement in this !
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain- ;
cd a patent and exclusive right of making and J
vending Boultiug Cloths on his improved plan for a
number »{ years, and they are fold only by him
felf in Lancaster, state of Pennsylvania, and by
the fubferibers in Philadelphia.
1 June 14 d 1
landing
From on board schooner Daphne, captain r
G. W.Morse, from Htfpaniola, °
61 ,000 wt. Sugar, a '
53,cx)0 Coffee 11
FOR SALE BY e
F. COPPINGER,
No. 221, South Front-street, el
Who has also on hand,
Claret in hlids. and cases t(
Rice b
A quantity of JBriftol Bottles a>
A cafe of Cambrics v
Cloths and Caffimeres.
J. ul ys- d6t.
A Literary Treat. B
JuJl publijhcd, handsomely printed on writing nl
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining lc
work, *ntitled " ac
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale j being w
a sequel to the hiliory of John Bull, rhe Cio- V!
thier—ln a series of letters to a friend, with the ad- m
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
trania&ioni in America. Nv
't'h« following extratft from the Clavis Allegorica, m
Ihews the principal characters that are introduced: t0
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
His Mother, the CI urch of England } '
His Wife, the Parliament % c
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland '
His Brother Patrick. Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France P"
His Mistress, the Old Conftitutioii
His niiW Wife, the National RcprefentationJ
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Repu lie Y°
The Franks, the French Republic
1 he Foresters, the United fata»es of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hampfiiire
John Codline, Massachusetts to
Humphrey Plowlhare, Connecticut tea
Roger Carrier, Rljfie Tfland
Peter Bull Frag, New-York
Julius Caesar, New-Jersey f u
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Wafliington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina VCI
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina ' l c
George Trully, Georgia ou(
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont ter
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves ' eel
Rats, Speculators onr
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
This popular and entertaining satirical hifto- J
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasa great share of originality and a
bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and charaCterises those
late pohtical tranlaClions which have caused so I
muck uneasiness in America. Caj
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. lb,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' ltjeet.
Juneafi. §
1 OR SALE,
By Simon Walker,
No. 122, South Fourth-Street, I
GOLD and fiiver Watches
Shot, common and patent
Tin Plates, Sheet Iron
Bar and (beet Lead
Copper flieets and bottoms
Tmntcn Ale
Ravens Duck
Ha' 1 in cases
Wool Cards
Cl-rct W:r.t Pcrtcr 3c'.;let in hampers.
July r. «OjW > T
rn - Advertisement.
pURSUAKT ta an Order from the Organs' Court,
7 A will atfluid, he fold at PU-BLIC SALE, at
rs,a "> w'x-'nefday ,tle t,si day of Auoufl next, ct
lire ; 1 °f rck > A At, all that valuable REAL ESfAT 1\
J he to tie Rev. Gilbert T. Sno-wder. Jxe,JH,
the - V '"- " °" J " ear Cranberry, in tb: county »/ LliMtfex,
a- '"■""'fi'fi °.f Siftt& Brunfwict, Hatfrf New Jerfa, up.
Ith "" road leading from Bbitaielflla
I ark. A very elegant framjmfe in a btautfj and
healthy ftualzon, pais.itd -white, i,H>j Venetian -ivindcia
putters, thirty fed front andliitty eight feet d,-p, lt ut
. nam, luitb a Eanjfme ball or entry on the firji floor,
three rooms on the ftcor.d ficor ahd two weli-fnijhcd gar
red In tie m,r r f the Bm f' " an '*«Uent two-Ron
_ bu.ldmg 37 feet by 19, covf,fling of a fr
eJ wort people, spacious pantries and a large litchen, -uhi
Ps *T er 3 ""?«», W Itear theft are three chancer, fr
es. X" the right is an additional building 1$ pet
front uy 19 feetdetp, cmjifling of & chamber below arc! a
"trary ab,ve— md r the -Me,are -very fne cellars paved
™' th iri 4 " ni c f leniently partitioned. The houfc is en
fl. tirely new, built in a mtdcrn flyte, and completely dnde
■r" l 'S an % fnifbed. Every nam is bang -with lulls that
11 " ." d h Mitcbeit and the frvants'"apat tmept, : there
v.. « a pump of good in the yard; and a for. e ari
brtel pavement round the -whole house, -which is end of -
ed-witb a handsome railing, ti.itb three gates in froit.
re c °"J'f s °f ° nc Hundred and fxty seven acres
■with a proportion of -woodland and meadow, under excel
n - lent fence , a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, fta
or iles, earriage-boaft, cow-bouses, (sfc. all new, and built
ill the be/1 manner : -with two Orchards, one of 66 full
, g nvm tr 'ei, the other is young and thriving, cor lifts,,? of
la bjl grafted fruit trees.
It Nearly adjoining fail farm is a lot of Woodland,
if thebejl quality, containing 37 acres. Alf, a trail of
)c land -within seven miles if Craiberry, and los tb.- Cicfs
Koadt, containing one hundred and fifty acres, thrce-fu.tb,
meadoiv and tbe re.'i excellent tin.ber.
'This Trail -will be fold in lots on Thurfdsty, tb'e 24 th
day of Augufl following, at 11 o'clock. A M, 01 tlx
> premfes if the weather permits, if not at tie Uafe of
jr Afr. IVitherill, Cross Roads.
For further particulars enquire tf Nathaniel Hunt, efi.
Cranberry, >f Asr. faac Sno-wdei fun. No. 541 South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or (f Mr' Qharles Snoiuden
Tontine Cvfn- Hoife, Neru Tori, or of thefulfcribers.
ISAAC SNO if DEN, Princeton > „
i JACOB FISHER, Cru,berry J Admin jlmten
N. B. Phe sale of'tbe abo ve property -was aa-vertized
for the 14 t}j injl. but tbe /idntiniflrators ivere not able to
. get the two feparxte Trails laid cut into lots, and ctber
matters arranged, on account of tbe indisposition of one of
, them, it 'iL>*s therefore adjourned to the days above mention
s "!• §6tmwfVf June 10-
1 "
Town Lots.
5 A TOWN named BEULA, one mile square,
1 X being laid out on the Bladdick Creek, Scm
j crfct County, Pennsylvania, Lots therein of 58 feet
by 125 feet are now felling at tfn dollars each ;
their situation in the town to be determined by
ballot before the fir ft of August, and deeds for the
. fame will be deliverd by the iubicriber before the
firft of Odlober next.
MORGAN J. RHEES.
No. 177, South Second-ilreet, Philadelphia.
The purchafersof lots in Beula have the follo'wing
profpeAs of appreciating their property :
!• It is remote from any other town, and fur
-1 rounded by great bodies of excellent land, capable
of producing every 'kind of grain and vegetables,
and ig yvithout doubt one ef thebeft grazing coun
tries in the United States.
2. In point of health the situation is not exceed
ed by any on the continent.
3 Besides numerous springs and runs, of th« £n
eit quality, there is a creek for water works (en
which mills are now building) running through the
town,
4 TJie publTo rojd from Philadelphia to Pittf-
will go through ir, which beiiip more 'cvcl
an 1 nearer than any other tout, nitiit become un>
yerlally travelled : aided by the navigation of Ju
niata and Conemaugh. goods may be conveyed at
1 or 3 dollars per cwt. cheaper from the for
mer to the latter place, than by the old road thro'
Bedford.
5. teing in *<ho centre of a flcurilhirg fettLe
mcnt, and taking in the fhorteifc portage between
tlie eastern and we/tern waten, it is likely to be
come a deposit forftores, a moaulafiuriiig town,
and a feat of justice. Besides the old fettlere, up
wards of on« hundred emigrants have fettled in the
vicinity of Beula, finee last October, and many
more nave engaged to join them this summer.
6. A Land-Qflice for supplying adtual fsttlcrs
with farms to a considerable dmuu .i, and in vari
ous fitu2tions, will be immediately opened in the
town. The jiroprii-tors of land in the circumja
cent country a>K fslicited to fend their drafts and
( rmsof sale, or lealing, to Thomas Jones, Sur
veyor, iu Beula, who will give security for any
trust reposed in him : with such co-operating iui,
the piogrefiof the fe'tlement wi 1 be the more rr.-
pidly advanced and extended to distant tuwnfhips. '
7- A public library for the benefit of the fettle: s.
will be eftabliihed in the town, towards laying the
foundation of which, upwards of one thousand
volumes are already purchaied and principally sent 1 •
forward.
8. Two hundred acres of land adjoining the
town, b ( ;fidcs4 >t*andfublcriptions,will be applied
to support a mioiiier and preceptor, capable of
teaching the ufetul and liberal arr».
9. After defrayiHg r.ectffary-expences, the mo
ney arising from the prefect fates will be laid out in "•
public ViUildings—A of worfliip, l'ehool
houfeand library room, are the firft obje>ils.
ie. Every profefiional man and mechanic; on
condition ot building a house with a stone or biick
chimney, and residing in it, before the firftof No
vember next, wiii be entitled to loar lots gratis,
free forever from graund rent. Fire and ten acre
out 100 may liktwife be obtained on reasonable
terms.
*»* The two central streets in Beula are 100
feet wide, and the others 8o feet. Reserved f(juare»
ond other accommodations must add to the health
axid beauty of the place.
July 6. Jt
1
Now Landing-,
At Pratt's wharf, •
FROM on boird the ship i'heraas Chjlklcy,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourde;.ux,
CLARET in casts
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Rqd Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Run die Ssf Leech-
May 15 J'
" Will be Landed,
From on board the Ihip A<Sive, Capt. Etiis.from
Hatnbuigh,
so bales white Uu.Tu clean Hemp
% casks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Tbsjr.as Herman Leuffer,
Martjiifjfth ilreet, No. 34-
T«i]s §
[Volume XIIFOR SALE, 2
r> RETAGNES in cases
i German Checks in do.
Camlitick "**
fht I dlas
07fiat»rigs
"Gold ami (il vet Watches * v
Win<lovv Giafs yoby 8
Glaft Tumblers in cases
Linfced Oil in calks, &c. &c.
George Ten nock,
iqx. Hi-rhStreSt.
July 5. ,Ijw
FOR SALE,
Thefolloi&nng Valuable Property.
A VACANT I.ot, Ctuatcd on the east fide of
il Third-street, between Shippen and Fiumb
ftrrets, twenty one feet front by one hundred feet th
de«p an
A frame Tenement fifteen Feet by nineteen feet,
on the north fide of Shippen-ilreet betweim I bird
and Fourth-ftrerts ; the lot is one hundred Ket
deep, it is paved before the d»»r, and great irn te
provenwnts tre making in the llree^. —the aVove is
clear of ground rent and every <>th<:r incumbrance th
—i the house lets for thirty leven pounds t.n flii!-
ling« per anuum. ti
Afrnme Tenement eleven by sixteen sett.on the
weft fide of Fiftii-ftreet, between Shippen and cc
Plumb-streets ; the lot is qinety fix feet deep, clear
of every incumbrance except a groundrtnf of ois
hundred and ten (bilHngs per annum ; tlie house 'j r
lets for thirty pounds per annum.
• also, „
A pair of dark brown Carriage Horses, one of
which is an excelltut Saddle Horse.
Fcr further pariiculars inquire of
Samuel R. Franklin, n.
No. too, Lombard-street, corner of Fourth fit. a <
N. B. The i»bov* property will be fold for part
caCi and part dry goods. aI
June 3<>._ .r» w 4w
Just Imported,
In the ship Rebecca, from St. Croix, ei
P.ime Sugar and Rum ai
45,002 wt. of Windward liland Coffee
A quantity of choice Madeira Wine.
James Yard\
South fide WalnutArect Wltarf.
Times'?. ' fv
Jutt Received,
.. From Bativia(v'ia Providence) •
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality 1<
tOQ half sacks do. do. S
few> Box«s of Spices, cotlfiiliag ps
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by T
WILLING* y FR AKCIS, l
Penivftreet. c
nay 30
45,000 pieces of Nankeens f [
150 boxes brown Havannak Sugars jj
Imporial Hyson Teas
17 tubs Quick Silver
Sail C»nvas, No. I a 8 [ t'
A large altortment of Nails, (harp and flat points y
Queens Ware, wtU afTorted in crates and hkds. I
London Partitu'ar and ") Madeira Wine,
India Market }
'f'enerifie Wire in hhds. and pipes
Bottled London Porter in tierce*
Fine YcJlow Paint, dry in calks ; f"
V.'ritini{ Slates in boxes and bundle* I "
A box of Ink Stands and Note Prefle* 1
Manchester Good* in cli'fts
3 trunks black hewing Silk ''
6 tons of Sheet Lead
Bell Liverpool Coal, and i
A quantity of Wiae Bottles P
, For Sale by
Philip Nick lin, & Co.
Juue *4.- if'vvtf q
— p
bamuel <Sc iMiers Niftier, { \
No. 27, Dock-street, t<
Have just received per Abigail, Babcoek, from a
Belfast, ''
IRISH Cambricks, in boxes of 40 pieces
and 80 patches, each sorted up to 9/" n
sterling per yard. ti
7key have also received tl
7-8 & 4-4 Irish Linen* well aflorted 1
Dowlas,and Sheetings,
which will be foltfltr ready nioney, or Ihort ] (
credit, on moderate terms ; together with f (
a general assortment of Spring Goods as a:
usual.—Also,
Hunter's Pipes in boxes a
An alTortment of Queens' Ware in crates Cl
An aflortment of Glass Ware in calks and h
crates 0
T. Crowley, Millington, Steel F
Cargo & London particular TenerifFe Wine? t<
Lisbon Wine of excellent quality j,
Superior Wines t<
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales fine Cloths neatly assort
ed, and two bales aflorted Flannels, to be n
fold per package. p
June 9. 6w o;
LAW BOOKS, ' !i
ir
Latest London and Dublin Editions. "
H. iff P. RICE, Boobfdlers,. w
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street, w
HAVE just received by the late arrivals frpm u
London and Dublin, their spring importa- tl
tion, confiding of a »»ri«y of the latest and molt fa
approved Law Books, which added tp those alrea- ol
dy on hard, forirsthe most extensive cqjleiftion ev- 1«
er offered for sale in this country. They tiheiefpre ti
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their it
eoiinedticnsin Dublin, they are enabled to fell Irilh b
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very d
lowest prices. The following are among the' Tateft
puWfcations. n
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 vds. F
Peake's Cases at NiG Prius ; Ridge-way's Reports t;
in the tijne of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer's Procters ei
Praflice in tlie Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's c]
Trtatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Praftice of b
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Adions, 2
parts complete ; Ward's Law
on Uses,; modern Reports, 12 vok. London edi- f'
tion. r '
H. and P. Rici cxjxra t» receive by the firft ar- C
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of p
Durnford and Eall's Reports, rlie ad part of Gil- g
hert's Law 0/ Evidence by Loft, and a number of c
new publications. )'•
June 26. 4"
"TYAT£ TRIALS. h
Sold by W. Young, Bookseller, No. J», South Se
cond-Ilrect,
The Pennsylvania State .Trials,
CONuining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of Francis Hopkinfen, the Court of
Admiralty, and John Niehoflbn, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large Svo- vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars. tl
W. Youno has for sale, a general alTortment of ~
Bocks Also, Stationary, retail and bythe pack
ege, well afiorud, ar.d entitled to the drawback if
raportcd. ' J u 'y 7 —*3t
I I WWMWMCTMarCTBr«»BUI»Kf>g , g' II lIM UMI 1
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, JuITII }
ACfs PASSED ]
At the firft feffton of the fifth Congress of .
the United States, begun and held atthe .
city of Philadelphia, on the 15th of May, ,
mi
1. An aft to prevent citizens of the Uni-|
ted States from privateering against nations j
in amity with-, or against citizens of, the
United States.
2. An aft prrhibiting, for a limited time,
the exportation of arms and ammunition,
and for discouraging the exportation thereof.
3. An aft to provide for the further de
fence of the ports and harbours of the Uni
ted States.
4. An aft authorizing a detachment fiom
the militia of the United States.
5. An aft in addition to an aft, intitled,
" An aft concerning the r££iftering and re
cording of ships and vessels."
6. An aft direfting the appointment of j
agents in relation to the. sixth article of the i
treaty of amity, commerce and .navigation,
between the United States and Great-
Britain.
7. An aft providing a naval armament.
8. An aft to ascertain the time for the
next meeting of Congress, and to repeal the
aft heretofore passed for that purpose.
9. An aft for reviving and continuing suits
and process in the cirouit court for the dif
trfft of North-Carolina.
10. An aft to continue in force, to the
end of the next fefliou of Congress, certain
afts, and parts of aft's, of limited duration.
11. An alt laying.duties on stamped vel
lum, parchment and paper.
12. An aft hying an additional duty on
fait imported into the United States, and
for other purposes.
13. An aft authorizing a loan of money.
14. An aft, entitled, "An aft for al
io wing full mileage to the members of the
"Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States."
15. An aft in addition to the law of the
United States concerning consuls and vice
confuls.
16. Au aft to revive and continue in
force, for a limited time, an aft, entitled,
" An aft authorifmg a transfer of flock
Handing to the credit of certain states."
17. An aft making additional appropria
tions for the support of government, for the
year one thousand seven hundred and ninety
feven.
MS. rswvo,
I IT is to be regretted, that when Farmer Giles
j avowed his want of confidence in the President,
he had not indulged the house with a detail of the
qualities which the Chief Magiftratt of the Unit
ed States ought to possess in order to command his
support. No man, perhaps, ha. rendered more
eiTential services to his country than the late Prefi
dent,but withal this he had not the good fortune to
plpafe farmer Giles. His fucceflor, who found all
the great offices filled, and therefore had nooppor.
tunity of overlooking modest mer# in the appeint
' ment.of a Poflmafler General &c. &c. has been e
qually unfucccWul in acquiring th« esteem of the
Farmer and his Prhiter ! But Ido not relilh his
speech to Congress, fays farmer Giles And why ?
Bt cause it contains feme unpleasant truths relative
to the designs o( our friends the French. What !
: are the difciplcs of Robefplerre, the author of all
the atrocities which have tarnilhed the French re
. volution, become as it were by magic thechampi
r ons of France under her puroft form of govern
ment ( This is a point upon which the French na
tion ought to be enlightened—because it is more
than probable, that the Jacobins in France have
not abandoned all hopes, in conjunction with their
brethren in America, of giving t* both countries
a government, which, by concentrating all powers,
i legislative, executive and judicial in the hands of a
1 few men, will revive the reign of terror in France,.
; and extend Che blessings of it to the United States.
It is mnft devoutly to be wished, that the firft
objedt of the reprelentatives of the people of France
after the admifli-in of the new third, may be to as
certain the real motives of the. directory for their
i hostile condu& towards our nation— a conduct cal
culated to give-such courage to the enemies of rc
preientative govt rnmrnts—nay, to hazard the very
( existence of republicanism. It will behove them
to enquire in the real character and designs of that
profligate fadtion in this country, who have abet
ted the directory ill their Wicked project againit
the cause of liberty, and who have had the impu
dence to style themselves the eidafivc friends of
the French revolution. Tken, and not "till then,
Hull we be able to. account fpr the following incom
prchcnfible paradoxes First—Why the creatures
of the directory were so anxious to have far Prefi
fident, a man who was leagued with the miniflers
of Louis the fifteenth, in the honed scheme of fell
ing for a song, the debt due from the United States
to France—which deht ha: been since fully and ho
norably discharged. Second —Why those persons,
whole habits are decidedly anti-republican, and '
, who in defiance of the example of France, contin
ue to kold in bondage mare than half a million of
their fellow men,,fhould be eternally bellowing in
favor of liberty and equality, and withal so fearful
of offending the directory. Third—Why frandu
lant bankrupts, Britilh debtors, fugitives from jus
tice, detestable traitors, and generally all men of
infamous chara&er, have been iuvariably carefied
by the agents of the directory, to the great scan
dal and disgrace of the French nation. And lastly
—Why the great majority of the people of the U
riited States, who, whijft they wifiied well to the
Frertch revolution when progrefling towards liber
ty by rational means, but who deplored the exceff
i es committed by the jacobins,—-fhouU be basely
1 charged by the friends of those very jacobins, with
' being enemies to France.
If I were to hazard an opinion as to the proba
ble result of such an enquiry, it would be, that a
sum equal to the expence of one campaign in Eu
rope has been fcattend from Nevv-Hampfhire to
Georgia by the agents of the directory and their
: predeceflors—not to conciliate the fri.ndfllip of the
great mass of the people of America, becauie in
s corruptible—but to prep the tottering'edilice of
jacobinifm in France, by fe'uring the co-operation
us an army of mercenary janizaries on this fide of
the water, in some new oiterprize against the peace',
happinefsand liberty 01 the two nations.
" B_
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chefls of a superior quality—Alio,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrcp Sims, and for sale by
. the fufafcribtrs, corner of Second and Pine
fttect.
C. Haight.
June a 1. eats
ersatuh. e
In the publication of the "AS laying duties a
on Jlamped velluv, parchment and pa per,"
in Monday's Gazette, the follo<wiig words S
•were omitted,- in page 3, col. 1, 13///
line from the bottom —'after th e word certifi
cate, infertof a (hare in any ins urai.ee com - >
pany or any certificate."
k a
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Publijhed by Authority.
FIFTH CONGRESS
GF THE UNITED STATES.
AT THE FI RST -SESSION,
I Begun and jield at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennfylvaftia, on Mon
day, the fifteenth day of May,
one thousand 1» veil hundred
and ninety-seven.
AN ACT
Iu addition to the law of the United States,
concerning Consuls and Vice-Confuls.
BE it enaSed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress ajfemlled, That in cafe
it be found necessary, for the interest of the
United States, that a Consul be appointed
to reside at Algiers ; the President be au
thorised to allow him an annual salary not
exceeding four thousand dollars.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Vice-President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.
Approved, July 6, 1797 :
JOHN ADAMS, '
President of the United States.
Deposited among the It oils in the Office »f the
Deportment of State.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary of State.
AN ACT
For allowing full Mileage to the Members
of the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the United States.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress ajfembled, That at the
present extraordinary meeting arid session of
Congress, the refpeftive members' of the
Senate and House of Representatives (hall
be entitled to' receive a full allowance of
mileage, any law to the contrary notwith
(landing.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Vice Prefiden* if the United States, and
Prei it of the Senate.
Approved, July 6, 1797 :
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Depojited among the Rolls in the Office of the
Department of State.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary of State.
AN ACT
To revive and continue in force, for a limit
ed time, an Aft, intituled, " An Aft
authorizing the transfer of stock Handing
to the credit of certain States."
BE it enaSed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress ajfembled, That the
several provisions of the aft, intituled " An
aft authorizing the transfer of stock (land
ing to the credit of certain states," passed
the second day of January, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-five, bt> and they
are hereby revived and continued in force
until the fourth day of March, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-nine, and no
longer.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
WILLIAM BRADFORD,
Prefidejit of the Senate pro tempore.
Approved, July 6, 1797 :
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Depojited among the Rolls in the Office of the
Department of State.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary of Stat^
AN ACT
Authorizing a Loan of Money.
BE it enaffed by the Senate and House of Re
presentatives ofthe United States of America,
in Congress ajfembled, That the President of
theTJnited States be, and he is hereby em
powered to borrow, on the credit of the
United States, a sum not exceeding eight
hundred thousand dollars, at an interest not
exceeding fix per ceptum per annum, neim
burfeable at the pleasure of the United
States, or at such period as may be stipula
ted by contract, not exceeding five years
from the time of obtaining the loan,' to be
applied to such public purposes as are or
may be authorized by law, and to be repaid
out of the revenues accruing to the end of
the present year, and such further revenues
as have been, or may be provided during the
present session of Congress ; and it (hall be
lawful for the Bank of the United States '
to ler.d the said sum.
Seft. 2. And be it further enaSed, That
in cafe the existing revenues of the United
States, together with such farther revenues j
as have been, or may be provided, during
the present session, shall be inefficient to .
Bifcharge and reimburse the fp.id loan, the
faith of the United States-is hereby pledg- j
Ed to make fucli further provision therefor,
as may be necessary.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
WILLIAM BRADFORD,
President Pro Tempore, of the Senate.
Approved, July, 8, 1797 :
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Depoiited among the Rolls in the Office of
the Department of State.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary as State.
AN ACT
Laying an additional duty on Salt imported
into the United States, and for other
purposes.
BE it enaSed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States ps
America, in Congress ajfembled,, That from
and after the thirtieth day of September
next there {hall be levied, collected and
paid, upon all Salt imported into the Uni
ted States, in ships u t>r vessels of the United
States, in addition to the duty of twelve
cents now payable by law, eight cents per
buftiel, and on all fait which after the (aid
thirtieth day of September (hall be im
ported into the United States, in (hips or
vefTels not of the United States, the like
additional duty of eight cents, and ten per
centum thereon.
Seft. 2. /ind ie it further enuSedyiThat
all drawbacks and allowances now authorf
zed by law, in relation to the existing duty
on Salt imported into the United States, —
(hall apply to the additional duty laid by
this aft, and that in addition thereto, there
shall be allowed and paid upon provisions
salted within the United States, except upon
dried fifh, upon the exportation thereof to
any foreign port or place as follows, viz.
on pickled fifh at the rate of twelve cents v
per barrel, and on other provisions at the
rate of ten cents per barrel; and from and
after the firft day of January next there (hall
be an addition of thirty-three and a third
per centum to the allowances now respec
tively granted to (hips or vessels employed in
the Bank or other Cod Fisheries, and in the
terms provided by an aft entitled " an aft
concerning certain fifheries of the United
States, and for the regulation and govern
ment of the fifhermen employed therein,"
and during the aontinuance of the said aft.
Seft. 3. And be it further enaSed, That
the aft entitled " an aft to provide more
effeftually for the colleftion of the duties
imposed by law on goods, wares and mer
chandize imported into -the United States,
and on the tonnage of (hips or vessels,"
(hall extend to and be in full force for the
colleftion of the additional duty laid by
this aft, and generally for, the execution
thereof, as fully and effeftually, as if every
regulation, reftriftion, penalty, provision,
clause, matter and thing therein contained
had been herein inserted and re-enafted. •
Seft. 4. And be it further enaSed,, That
this aft (hall continue in force for two years,
and from thence unio the end of the next
session of Congreft. and no longer.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
WILLIAM BRADFORD,
President Pro Tempore of the Senate.
Approved, July 8, 1797.
JOHN ADAMS,
Prefident,of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of
the Department of State.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Stcretary of State.
AN ACT
Making additional appropriations for the
support of Government, for the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven.
BE it cna3ed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress ajfembled,' That for the
expenditure of the Civil lift j for the sup
port of light-houses ; for the expenses of
foreign intercourse ; for certain expenses in
relation to the military and naval establish
ments ; and' to fatisfy certain. mjfcellaneous
demands the following sums be refpeftivaly
appropriated that is to iay,
, . Dols. Cts.
For the compensations
granted by law to the mem
bers of the Senate & House
of Representatives, their of
ficers and attendants estima
ted for a, session of 2 months 77,389. 66
For the expenses of fire
wood, stationery, printing
work, and all other contin •
gent expences of the two
houses of Congress, 6,500
For printing the laws
of the present session, 1,050
For making good the
allowance to clerks employ
ed in the Department of
State, agreeably to law. 269. 70
For the lalary of an ad
ditional clerk in the Depart
ment of State, to perform
the duties of an accountant,
and when not so employed to
do the ordinary ferviccs of a .
clerk, 800
For defraying the ex
pencesof foreign intercourse
for the year one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety seven
beyond the appropriations
heretoforeauthorizedbylaw. 60,50©
For defraying any advan
ces incidental to the inter
course of the United States,
with the Mediterranean pow
ers, to be applied under the
' direftion of the President of
i the United States, and ]ac-
cording to his discretion, a
sum not exceeding 45,000.. ■
For the salaries of two
extta clerks "11 the office of
the acountant of the War
Department, 800 .
i For completing and- e-
quipping the frigates United
States,ConftitutionandCon
fi citation, 200,C(i0
For the pay and fub
fitlence of the officers and
crews of the said frigates, rOo,cto
For the extra expen
ees authorized by law, du
ring the present fefiion in
relation to the revenue cut- • v '
ters, iOjOOO
For the repairs and fa--v
brication of arms and '.annon
carriages# _ 39,000
For .completing the flic ;
months pay and the sub
sistence of the officers dischar
ged underthe aft of thet-hird
of March, one thousand, se
ven hundred an.dninety-feven, 2,580
For the Hospital De
partment, 5,0'c0 :
For, making .good a de
ficiency arising from the
balance of monies' of various
appropriations being carried
to the credit of the " Surplus
Fund," in pufruance of the
sixteenth feftion of the aft
passed the third of March,
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-five, -viz. for er
efting a Light Hoilfe on the
Head land of Cape Hatteras
' and a lighted Beacon on {hell
castle island, in the harbour
of Ocracock, in the State of
North Carolina, 44,000
For enabling a remit
tance to the commiflioners
of the Dutch loans at Am
iterdam, in paymeilt for a
quantity of falt-petre, 17,031. 89
1 For re-paying the bank -
of the United States a sum
advanced upon certain treasu
ry bills drawn upon colleft
ors of the revenue of the U
nited States, in North Caro
lina, 5»i50
For the payment of
the commissioner of loans for
the state of Rhode Island,
on accoutitof tvvo clerks who *
were employed in the year
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-fix. 54
Seft. 2. And be it further enafted, That
the several appropriations herein before
made (hall be paid and discharged out of the
surplus of revenue and income beyond the
appropriations heretofore charged thereon
to the end of the present year.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives. ■
WILLIAM BRADFORD,
President Pro Tempore, of the Senate.
Approved, July 10, 1797.-
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of
the Department of Stats.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary of State.
NE W THE AT RE."
Lajl Night but one !
Mrs FRANCIS's Night.
On WEDNESDAY Evening, July 12,
W iJI be preiented (not sifted these two years) a
COMEDY, called
THE RIVALS.
Sir Anthony Abfdute, Mr. Morris
Captain Abfoluie, Mr. Moreton
Falkland, (f.rjitime) Mr. Cooper
Acres, ■ Mr. Bates
Sir Lucius o'Trigger, Mr Warren
Fa S'_ Mr. fox
Da-old, Mr. Francis
Coachman, - Mr. Warrell
Soy, Majler T. Warreii
Mrs- Mttlapro, Ifirjltimeon ( Mri.O/dmixoit
Julia, 3 this (luge. I Mrs. Merry
Lydib Languijh, , Mrs. Francis
Lucy, Mrs. Harvey
End of the Comedy, a new Iri.Ti Dance (composed
by; Mr. Byrne) called
The Deserted Village ;
Or, JSpinftcr's Lottery.
By Mr. and Mrs. Byrne.
To which will be aided, a iVlafical Farce (ntvelr
performed) called,
THE SAVOYARD ;
Or, The Repentant Seducer.
(The music cottipofed by Mr. fteinagle.)
Belton, Mr. Fox
front, Mr. HcwXjood
oirnond., Mr Warren
tat her Bertram?, Mr. V hft range
Mery'amin, Mafier H Worrell
Banditti, Mejfrs. Francis» Warrell iff Blijfett
Jaques-t Mr Morton
Counteftt Mrs. Francis
NannettCy Mrs. Gld,mixon
Claudine,
Tickets to b« had at the usual places, and qf Mr*.
Francis, No. 7c North Eighth -ttrett
one dollar twenty five cents-—Pit, seven
eighth of a dollar—and Gallery half a dollar.
The doors of the Theatre will be open at fifc
o'clock, and the curtain rife at fcVen pivcif lv,.
Lajl Exhibition
IN the great Dancing Room of Mr. M'Dougali,
South Fourth-flreet, between Chefnut and Wal
nut ftrcet, at 8. o'clock in the evening.
The Automaton* which have excited the admi
ration of the rf©rmo:iT;urs; will abfolutcly leave for
ever their afconiihins* on Friday the a id
of this month. After the experiments of nat-ur'a.l
j?hilofophy, the artificial lady will
lire works without powdtr or fmelJ.
Entrance haif a dollar—Children hall price.
July * 2. .^Awtzz.
This Day is Published,
And fold by H. & I. Kslmmerep, jun. No.
24, North Tuird-Jlreet, afo, Ij Mr. J-Je.\-
Rr StrsiriEk, No. 85, Raceftreet,
'(Price half .a Dollar neatly Bound)"
The. Man. of real Senfibilitv ;
' Or' The MIS'IORY ELLISON.
(pT* The elegant Etfuiun of the Elements of Moral,
ity* io two vols, iiiuftratcd with '"twenty copper
plates, a abovq} price, full bound
and £tlt, iwo dollars ar.d ftftf- cents.
H&I. K junrs. have an hand a quantity of No. i
and 2 W&iftg Paper.BRIDGE-TOWN,"(N. j,) July
The Day was welcomed in by a discharge
of cannon—a number of the inhabitants of j
this town and its vicinity repaired to an ele- I
gant Bower ere&ed on Laurel Hill, where
they partook of a handsome dinner, prepared I
by Mr. Ehenezer Seeley. Hilarity and
pleasure were eonfpicrfous, and the following
toails were drank, accompanied by a dif- I
charge of artillery.
1. The Day.
2. The Utiited States.
3. The President.
4. (jfcrge Vi/afhington, Columbia'smuch j
admired tried friend, alike in War or Peace
May his name defeend to latest ages, un- j
hurt by malice, asd untarnished by mifre- I
presentation. . I
5. The Memory of those heroes who fell I
m defence of American freedom and inde-1
pendence.
. 6. May j-jft national views absorb local I
and particular interests.
7. The free born sons of America. May I
they never desert the cause of their country |
in the day of trial.
8. The Agriculture, Commerce and Ma- I .
> nufaftures -of our country.
9. The progress of Science throughout I !
the world. | 1
»0. Civil liberty and social order.
11. Governor Howell, and the state of I '
New-Jersey. - | 1
12. Freedom, Peace, and Plenty to all I '
mankind.
13. May an invariable attachment to the I '
public good, cement the members of the I '
Federal Legislature. I
14. The Aborigines of America, and I
perpetual peace with them.
k '5- May foreign influence, or party feuds I j
never affect our public Councils. I j
16. The American Fair. I t
ALEXANDRIA, July 6. J
loa/ls drank at Mr, Ebcrt*s—July 4, Itl
1. The Day and all who honor it. I a:
2. 1 he memory of those who bled in sup- j h
P or { of American Independence. I „
3. May the unanimity and virtue of '76 h;
be an example to those of the present day. I ar
4. George Wajbington—May past feVvices I OI
live in the memory of Americans.
5. The President of the United States.
6. The Vice President «f the United I to
States. ,
_ I la'
7. May our cannon speak the voice of p,
the people, if Congress will not. I or
8. The infant fleet of America. j an
9. May the United States aft justly to, I f 0;
and independent of all foreign nations. I }, a
10. Our Ministers Extraordinary—May t ic
they soon restore a good understanding bet-1 tu'
ween France and America. f u
r 11. The Commerce of the United States. t h<
12. The health and speedy liberation of I an ,
the Marciuis La Fayette, and fair
Family. I .
13. Mr. Ames. I
14. Prosperity of Alexandria. I a ,
''s- The Navigation of Potomac. I j„(
16. The American I fjg,
GEORGE-TOWN, July 7.
FOR THE CENTINEL. J
The bridge, lately ereded over the Poto- j QI
mak, at the place where the tide meets the j
wafers from the mountains, opens a direst I
communication between the city of Wafh-1 C ° n
ington, and the rich farmfing counties of I j
Loudon, Berkley, Fauquier, Frederick, I t
Shenandoah, Hardy, and Hampfliire, in I g Ol
Virginia,. These counties are inhabited by I j;j r
the industrious proprietors of their own y.-jj
lands, who are chiefly emigrants from the
middle and eastern dates ; preserving with f
their industrious habits, the plain republican
manners of their ancestors, in spite of the
contagion of example.
Ihe city, by means of thi3 communica- -j
tion, has now become the nearefl sea-port, CCIVi
for the immense produfts of this extensive
and valuable country, by fix or seven miles, of p
with the advantage of the best roads ; —and pur
nothing seems wanting but peace, and a
few mdre men of capital and enterprixe, to
give the most aftive spring to the most ac- p j ori
tive commerce, in this favored spot.
For the facility with which this great ob- ' re
jest has been completed, we arc principally jjatu
indebted to the enterprise and perseverance Q [ j
of that most ufeful and public spirited citi- c h 3r
zen, John Templeman, Esq. who zeal
ously engaged in the fuperintendance of the we a
work at its commencement; and fuffered no aDD „
.obstacle to impede its progress to its final V g„ r
accomplifliment:—and of whom it may be brine
justly fald, and we therefore fay it with ■pi
pleasure, '« That he has deferred -well of his dore
country." ,
J thoii]
NORFOLK, July 6. m °^
VICE-CONSULAT OF NORFOLK. t J, e p
Norfotk, 21th of June, 1797, s th year of ficial]
trench Republic, one and indi-vifible. y. ■
The Vice-consul of the French Republic to w n
the Mayor of Norfolk. offenf
T SlR ' r . W
1 cannot pais over in silence the accum- on
ulated outrages that have, for this some comp
time past, been committed on Frenchmen j„ rm ,
resident jn Norfolk. . fhi ' •
When insults degenerate into affaffinati- P i a U
ona; patience itfelf in subdued; and lam and ; r
..bound to demand vengeance on cowards, t ; OI1 ,
who, uniting in troops, to oppress and o- b/ndir
verwhelai a difarmcd French Officer, and our /,
who amply supply in numbers their defici- t i„ s f
ency in courage.
Manycomplaintsofthenatureof this, have
been made to your predecessor in office, but 0 f
the have remained without arifwer or effeft. pro f ec
I am about to enumerate them, in order
that I may not appeal to your severity and t he of!
rigour, before I ft all have addressed myfelf o fg cer
to your justice. hiwevi
In the month of March last, Citizen Bar- n^Tol
ney, commander of the French frigates, quarre ;
having interposed his authority, to appease ever Hi
a riot which hadar/fen 111 the streets, between tors 0 f
some French Sailors and some Americans, jaterpe
was insulted, assailed, menaced, pursued to „f po u,
his lodgings, and but for his own firwnefs, hostile
and the interposition of the rtaglftrates, I,
harere W ? have h?" endangered, Tl
its of w^ nt °f w.tnefs, and the ignorance ofthol
11 ele- 7 10 - WEre cu, P a^'e in this affair,.prevented ,
vhere J' e tlm « a recurrance to justice.and to yoi
pared fll r' 7 thi< fcene ' the Seen
snd f f' T .° the Fr f nch consulship, walking i
iwincr I . r u etS KT WI - anot}ler Frenchman wh
dif- I W *!u a onal cockade,, were attacke
I with stones and obliged to fly, to preven
I n S wounded. Since that epoch, th
captain of marines, of the frigate Medusa
I was a.iaulted by two men in the middle o
nuch J. h ° ?! at Wl ' th canes, cu
>eace I T . 1 him Arttched on the spot
un- I ■ T o '" commodore demand iuf
lifre I t!Ct j u ce was 11 ot granted.
Finally yesterday after dinner, an office!
, fell I the Medusa entering a houfeof entertain
inde- T n r' 7 here Mr - Wden (an officer ol
I. e ™ rt ) was > the latter, after throwing oul
local ' T " Ve ' VeS - and im P rec ations against th<
j Trench nation, insulted andftruck the French
Mav I r . c P roac hing him at the fame time
ntrv lth hav'ngafword, while he (Mr. Saun
' I dersj had none.
Ma- I le frenchman direftly gave his hanger
I to another,officer who was present, and re
lout I attac k, in employing only the
I means tnat his adversary possessed; but as he
I was much the strongest he had the gener
cDf I ° y to 4 u| t the unequal contest—and the
. I magistrates making theirji appearance, he,
) all I°. ~[ ent t0 their voice, went securely into
I the -street, trusting that the police of the
thr I town wou ld keep him fafe from affkflinati
|jj I on.
e I Mr. Saunders followed him, and provo
and'l k l. d him wlth renewed fury. The French
I officer in defending himfelf overthrew his
uds adversary, and in that instant a hatter named
I Jolinfon, with several workmen, and one
Lownes, a crockery ware man, threw
themselves on him, and had well nigh taken
h ' s llfe ~ not be ' n g able to subdue him
I they affaflinated him—some Frenchmen of
the neighbourhood disengaged the officer
I and got him into one of their eoufes. But
U P" his enemys Saunders, thrilling for blood,
' f-, I P ur^ him in his retreat, which ought to
7 have been sacred, and puflied his violence
a y- and fury to the bursting open the door, in
ces order to snatch his victim from his friends.
I If such excesses are not severely punifh
,CS - hy the magistrates, if strangers in this
e I town are not under the fafeguard of the
laws of nations, if the lives of peaceable
°r Frenchmen, wearing the national cockade,
1 or who belong to the service of the Republic
are not protected by the laws of a country,
to, for which it ought to be remembered they
I have shed their blood, I will give informa
ay I tion to the French Government of their fi
"t I tuation, of their dangers, the repeated in
sults they receive, and their cause will be«
' s - the cause of violated humanity, gratitude
O' I and hospitality.
" r I I would also observe to you, fir, refpeft
ing the garrison of the Fort, that several
I Frenchmen, wearing the national cockade,
I have complained of having been frequently
j insulted by the soldiers who compose it. I
I have now to pray you, fir, to profecufc with
I all the rigor of the law, the individuals 1
I whom I have pointed out to you, against 1
j whom I am, in behalf of the French Na- 1
* tion, the accuser. j
I Receive, fir, the assurance of my perfeft j
- I consideration and refpeft, ,
!f p DUHAIL. a
I You can, fir, call as witncfTes in (
I the affair, Mr. Thomas Willock, Nathaniel t
n I Boufh, James Woodward, Mr. Herbert, e
y Mr. Bosquet, and the citizens Labadie, t
" Vrllegraine, Dupre, Farin and Courret c
' you will obtain from them the necessary in- c
™ formation of the crime that I denounce. a
Norfolk Borough, June 29, 1797. v
Sir, c
The letter which I had the honour to re- ti
» ceive from you of the 27th instant, I con- a ,
(idered it to be rrfy duty to lay before a couat tl
I Aldermen, summoned especially for that p
purpose ; I have now to communicate to w
1 you the result of oar deliberation. ' o!
' We consider it as an evil much to be de- f e
plored, that when jealousies arise between te
nations, however consequential the firft ag- th
' greffions may be, circumstances light in their K<
nature (hall in future be magnified as proofs m
of difaffe&ion ; permit us to observe, the re
charges in your letter are, w C think, some- ce
what of the latter description ; and while C r
we approbate the sensibility excited on the th
appearance of an affront to an individual of f 0
your nation, we lament the cause which j n
brings that sensibility into birth. to
The circumstances relating to Commo- w )
dore Barney were duly investigated, and we in
thought had been fettled much to the Com- vie
modore's fatisfaftion. de
The affront offered'to the Secretary of Bi
the French Consulship was never known of- fte
ficially, and permit us to assure you that if s a l
it had been known, every effort would have are
been used by the magistracy to punifli the tra
onenders.
\yith refpeft to the outrage committed mil
on the captain of marines of the Medusa, a the
complaint was lodged with one of. the Al- TI
dermen, by him and the surgeon of the fi r (l
flup : The Aldermen who heard the com- KS
plaint sent for the commonwealth's attorney, reft
and in confutation with him, left to the op- thei
tion of the injured officer the choice of has
binding the offenders to their good behavi- Grt
our (the only punilhment which the laws of Spa
this state can inflid for breaches of the fair
peace) or a profecuti'on for the recovery of a d<
damages ; the latter was the choice of the fait]
of the officer, and such suit is now under SJ.
prosecution.
As to the disagreeable difference between nati
° ffi " r L os i he French Republic, and an it is
officer of the A menean army,the magistrates, sent
however tfeey.may l 3ment such difpu;t , 8i df) fiffi
not hold themselves bound to interfere in the thoi
quarrels or private individual. ; they will cont
ever fhewa promptitude to aft as conferva, to a
tor. of t e peace, but fdo not consider their the
loterpofition as necessary to enforce tie lawa ceril
of pohtenefs :So soon as wr under,ftood that pref
P ur P°fM wsr: ia mediation, an atreft cow
:s, his n £„t so.-war;}
f J l *! 6 tl,c P" r P'>fe«f prfveiitJujj dtfrjjxeeabfo cam
tnoie Cnnfco'is of that rfeilitude of '£onda<fti(-h : t
ited at h«s ever governed the rriagiftracy "of she B'
> your j rOM B'» | n the .-elati.-,! between them *hd th?cit
Secre- ! z . ens 0} y >l,r repablw, we feel tiu--felv;s hurt a
ne- in I ! tr *( ,re;T i'' n i that, " Jufliee for injury ha
who r demsnded ' anrl n»t granted " Permit u
to lay, we knqw of no instance. ill which iuftic.
acked , has been d.-raitvled'and withheld.
•event ! While in yo-jn endeavors to k«p iip a goo<
i, the "nderftandiirg ietwcen tfie ciiizsrii of our owr
:dufa, * B( ' your republic, we keep in a view the necef
die of , V >f en /" rc ' n ? a ". obedience totheiuvs ovei
rut I " i? ;rr ° ns mor « iinmeijia.tely under your iu
v_„» nfdidliop. We conceive an equal exertion on
p • your part as a rvece.Tjry (lep thereto, and sub.
d Jul- rait to you the-expediency of a limitation in the
licence granted to the officers am} lailors of the
fficer wips of thf* republic in coming ashore,
rtain- ' "' ;e translation of your letter, added to the
er of C ,° Urt bting in thcir ' Q uar ter fefliorw, has ren-
V out e 1 delay 10 r *? e an '*er unavoidable.
1 am > behalf of the ceurt of Aldermen,
the with rtfpefl,
•ench Sir,
time Your imft obedient servant,
!aun- . GEO- I.OYALL, Mavor.
Citizen Duhail, Vice-Co»ful of
no-er the Frcnch Republic, Norfolk,
d re
the ,ii
%f)c <j&ascttc.
:ner- __
5 h e e PHILADELPHIA,
into
I WEDNESDAY EVENING, July i 2.
the ' „ „ ' „ ■ hi
nati-1 PRICES OF STOCKS.
!™C„T «>f*V*«r
ovo- : Deferred 6 per Cent. V ,J> &
trich ' BANK united Statei,ftW,/ l 4 a , 5 perct .
his —— "cnnfylvania, d», 20 .
med ' North America, . -
one 'nfuranee Comp. N. A (hares
Pennfylvama, 4atperctadv
T eW „ COURSE OF EXCHANGE,
ken | On London, at 33 days par
h;m j —— at 60 days
nof I a n. , at 9P da ' r ' 6 »
icerl' P=rgui« er 40
d a. ' 9° daya .I
"tit Died, lall Sunday, Mr. Scott nrinciual
e erkto Meffra. Gurn.y and Smith, merchants of
; to th., City, wnole employ he had been upwards
rice twelve years. r
in .
ids. ~ co mnnttre of five members of the house
ifh- °fß«prefentatires w3s appointed, before the
his ad J°urnment of Congress, to fit during the
the " ccfs for the purpose of inveftigatinsr Mr.
ble Blount's affair. 6
tie,
.lie . " f v "" n g.» young man, a German, appren- I
tice to Mr. Schi-Vyin T'hird-fttreet, wat drown- I
S Dock-ftrt, DelaWire ' " the b " hine ' h " n " r
la - Monday lafta man,f«rvant to Col. Gurncv was I
si. drowned in the Delaware- I
ill- _ ,
be «
1 11 Bache and his tri-color'd junto ?
Aiifwer was made, replete witk fpit'e, I
tct him dill print, and let them write.
ral
ie, By this day's Mail.
iy i_
} NEW-YORK, July u.
t Montefqmeu fays—'< The most certain I
lis mark of the approaching faH of > Rate, is
ilt the contempt of the people towards their
a- government and magiltracy."— 1„ monar
chies this is undoubtedly true j for we have
tt seen it-verified in France, and htard of it in J <
other nations It may be true also, when
applied to a republican government ; but it I
in (hews at the fame time, an universal corrup- I
el u'on of the people who eleft, and are eleft- I
- ed into olEce : and whenever such a (late of I
•' things occurs, as was the cafe on the de- I
- cline and fall of the Roman republic, the I 5
country is ripe for some terrible revolution £
and must exped it. Tke grand objeft there- j
fore is, to promote public and individual
virtue ; for, from that primary source, prp- I
ceeds all the good to be expeded in a coun- I
try. If the majority of a republican state j
are virtuous, it is not natural to presume I
t that a majority of the government, which de- I
1 pends on the public fuffrage, will be other- 1
3 wife—and as the political conduit of the I
officers of our government, with extremely I S
few. exceptions, is unimpeachable, every at- I
1 tempt on the part of our citizens, to detach j
- the confidence of the people from their pub- I
r lie agents, is a step towards verifying the re- J
* mark of Montesquieu. This obfe-rvation I
receives additional energy, if we refle& that I S]
certain printers in the United States (to the I
credit of our country, they are as few as I
1 their characters are contemptible,) have uni- I
formly feleded the most unblemished and I
irreproachable rpen as objefts against which |
to emit thcir venom. If to abuse such men, I A
when the virtuous and the moderate concur I ; n ,
in approbating their measures, is not an ob- j
viogs attempt to withdraw the public confi- I m£
dence from their administration, nothings is: Ip e
But it is sincerely trusted nefarious j tui
Heps to realize " thcmojl certainmarl of the | n r j
fall of aflateS' will be as unfuccf fsful as they I bo;
are base. A review of the fe3eral adminif- I
tration, from the firft eftablilhment of the I feil
government, will evince to every impartial I big
mind, that our public officers have afted on I daj
the grand principle of advancing the IN- I
TERESTS of the United States, in the I
firft instance—and secondly, with a rigid I Shi
regard to the rights of other nations, always
refpe&ing them and endeavoring to treat J ® r '.
them with a scrupulous impartiality, This
has been the cafe with refpetft to and I
Great-Britain, and this is now the cafe as to | „ ,
Spain. The decisive steps taken in the as- j C
fair of Mr. Blount, are fufficient evidence of I
a determination to aft with candor and good I Sloe
faith towards the Spaniards, to fatisfy their
and to avert the Calamity of a mis- j
understanding, either with that or another I
nation, famous for dark intrigue, and which
it is fufpefted is at the bottom of their pre- t j™
sent unwarrantable manoeuvres on the Mis- by t
fifiippi, The Spaniards have ever been (
thought an honorable people—we hope will brie
continue so—and we Ihould have little caufc St.
to apprehend a rupture with them, if left to Spa
the uninfluenced operation o&their own fin- by I
centy and good faith are at S
present so influenced, every observer will, cf ed ;
course, decide for bimfelf. r
!-s for Ext raft of a letter from Quebec, Tune H
canfe »We have just received news from De
ie R. I 1 3t . 1 P; ' rty of French and Indiani
i"c,ti- V . e Carl '! cd an Amcrica " Fort on the
urt at [jji,. that the commandant of Detroit
y has had ""patched i;o men to their relief."
n!t us itt - r, Plf' T\ Mfaervo, July Vb ]
uftice Un Wednesday evening the sth inft. de
parted this life, much arid deservedly lament
good ed, Nathaniel Lawrence, Esq. for three
,e°clf yearS attorne F"g encra ' of this state.
„ Jolyit .
n on * elt*tday arrived in this town, Charles
sub- Collins, jon, via New London, comrmnJer
n the of the ship Pai ty, with a cargo of'fugare, eft
)f the mated at 30,000 dollars, bo\ind from Havann
I.ah to Bristol, in tliis S a'e, who was taken
Ven- n y lh ; armed P riva,ecr Campbell, of New
1 rovidence, and cariied-'n for trial, about
men, the 20th us April lafl on pretence of her be-
N .ing Spani/h p.opeity —On the 20th ult,
was tried, acquitted, and the owner of the
privateer fentenccd to pay 2100 dollars for
costs aed damages together with the costs of
court which the capto, paid and appealed
Ihe Captain has come home to procure
«■ bonds and further evidence of her bein 2 bona
fide American; which in faft is the cafe, be
ing the property of James and William D.
Wolfe, of Brittol, and of the fa id Collins of
this town—lt is not supposed the plaintiff!
will ever lay in any further claim to laid cat
-12. go, his appeal notwithftatlding— This award
must be pleasing, as on this trial depended a
number of others in the fame filiation, and
iter- p Ur Havannah trade.
1 off. •
T ct RUTLAND, July ? .
10 ■ INFORMATION.
15 . gentleman diieft from Bennington informs,
that the inhabitants there hive i: in ferioiu con
adv. templation, to prtition his Excellency the Gov
ernor immediately to convene hy proclamation,
the General aflerobly of this State, for the pur
pose of passing a rcfolve of the Aff-mbiv, ihat
the Jionorable Jke Lyon of V trmont in his late
0 Ipeech to Congref., defer.es we ll of his conlti
-1 tucnta; and to do, and tranfaft (uch further
ipal and other things, as they in their great wisdom,
1 of 'hall 'Jeem requisite and rteceffary, more fully to
irds demonstrate to the world, the high sense they ;
entertain of the wisdom, candor, and abilities ,
of their right honorable member.
he I *** No papers were received by the South
:he I urn Mail this day.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. t
en- I
">■ 1 PokT of Philadelphia.
37 IT. ■ r. ARRIVID. DAYS. I
,a 8 Br 'g R "by, Mitchell, Marseilles 48 f
Lady Washington, Brown, Curacoa 2J
Sally, Hayes, Havannah 15
Flora, Stevens, do. do. 1
Betsey, James, do. do.
PoUy ' Senk y> C. N. Mole 14
I Sch.. Telegraph, Corry, Havannah 11
Sally, Scudder, Boston 14
Susannah, Webb, do. do. -
Brudence, Deming, Hartford 10 -
j Freedom, Barton, Salem 11 1
. I Sloop Sally, Rhode Island 8
I Debora, Perry, Windsor, (N. S.) B°'
Mafon, Savannah 7
Tryal, Hand, Alexandria 7 _
r " I Dolphin, Kentie, do. 7
' e j Two Brothers, Mason, do. 12
P Sloop Betsey, Elkins, Alexandria 7 ~
" Sally, Potter, Norfolk 3 „
Patience, Willis, New-York 6 ar
Mary, Newall, North-Carolina 8 G,
" I George, Jackson, New-York 7ed
Moodie, I—,1 —, N. Providence
I CLEARED. C 1!
c I Ship Star, Woodman London
11 Snow Sarah, Potter, St. John!s, N. B.
- Brig Brandywine Miller, Culver, St. Croix
' I Fame, Knox, do.
■ I Planter, Hawkins, do. po i
Diana, Kirkbride, _ Liverpool of
Malabar, Da Costa, St. Thomas the
Dispatch, Bioren, Cape Francois
Luranie, Morris, Aux Cayes Str
Rambler, Odlin, St Jago de Cuba ,
Rebecca, Arnold, Jacquemel
Sch'r Winfield Packet, M'Kean, Richmond
Nancy, Williams, North Carolina
' Eliza, Little, Maryland
Rambler, White, Norfolk TJ
Duly Ann, Mc. Namara, Fredericks-
10. [burg „ Jn
I Sloop Abigail, Bowie, Alexandria "v*
Amity, Woodward, Portfmouth,N. H ,; ra i
Two Brothers, Stenwood, Newbury- and
Port cloa
Elly, Daniel, Newbern f all '
I The French privateer that captured the Blal
Asia, wasfeen in the offing-fan Sunday morn- L niC
ing last. ' Stat
A letter from Curracoa of the 18th ult. „° 3 7n
I mentions the arrival there of the ship Nancy, «ut
I Perry, of this port, bound to London, cap- the 1
I tured off the Delaware Capes, by a French hom
I privateer. The writer was forbid to go on
I board to speak to the captain.
I Capt. Mitchell of the Ruby, from Mar-
I feilles left at that port, May 14, brig A
bigjiil, Lake, of this port, to fail in two
I days.
New-Yor#, May 11.
I . ARRIVED, DAYS.
Ship Federal George, Cojeman, Bourdeaux 55 '"T"
Friendfliip, Orange, Amsterdam a " 1
Brig Two Pollys, Kairrhild, do. 6a a ° ar
Georgia Packet. Haraden, Barcelona 55
Nancy, Cottrell, Havanna 12 dc-nci
John, tA'ebb, Charlefion 6 the f :
Schr. Saml. & Margaret, Scott, Jamaica 22 name
John, George-Town 6 newfi
Polly, Hooper, Portsmouth 12 fumrr
' Sloop urora, Calioone, Newport, 3 oftirr
I.ouis, F.'Merrells, Savannah 14 w hicl
Eliza, Williams, Baltimore 3 anoth
Ry the Betsey, Lovett, arrived on Sat- from
urday in 16 days from Leog-ine, we have a con- what<
firmation of the accounts refpe&ing the ce/Ta- carry
tion of American captures and condemnations ward
by the French. [Argus. m jl es
Capt. Cottrell left at the Havanna, the propo
brig Amazon, Rhodes, of New-York, from or the
St. Thomas to the Havanna, taken by the be at >
Spanish, turned away frOJn port, and taken
by the French. V"
Slocp Snub, Ruffe!, of Middletown, ferv- .1"!''
1 « . lIICIH
eel as the above.
Brig Experience, Fitch, frcm Jamaica, Rio
" e tv ' l^e Pencil, and earned into {|
m De- Havanna.
ndiar.B The /hip Ann, Coffin; from the Bay i
n trie Honduras, taken by the Spaniards, broug-l
Detroit in and cleared—then turned out, taken b
V , the French and sent back. A number c
10 J others were similarly situated, the name? c
menr' «•*, Ca . pt ' Cottreil not recolleft
tWf< which h? fhoiightwouldbe Ccndemnec
Six da-/s after Capt. Cottrell failed, i
. ,/ Gulph he fell in with a squadron Ens
lifh (hips, (two 74's and 3 frigates) examin
.. Ed his papers without moleltation.
inJe r HatedCftj on the 26th May, in lat
. e A 3 > u, spoke the Hazard, o
avann "' 1 da >' 3 fronl Gibraltar, bouhc
to -Liioon.
r New r J Une ! !v in ' atl 37. long, jji spoke th<
about / cho ° ner „ Hawk \ George Gilford, master
er hp. i ll Vl#a St. Michcls, and
ult unc * or ew Y or k. He had on board the
the ? 3te 3 r d 3 tf>e Clew tJle *>>% Colum
, bia, of and from New-York, bound to Ma
lis nf i eira —P apt " Talbot was ca st alhsre on the
-d lflandbfSt - Michel's—'veflel loft,
icure rt.- jTl '^ e *4? in i af- 3<5, long, 51, spoke the
bona s'n ' of Philadelphia, 13 days front
, Bolton, all well.
1 D Cspt. Jiariden, failed in company with
us of - bnff Triton > for Boston. The brijr Ve
iiriffi w S> Tocser > from Salo the '4th of
' ' May, for New-York,
cat
a' From a Jamaica Paper of June 3.
' t Falmouth, June i.
On Monday last the American brig A-<
melia, Capt. Seaman paired this port to
leeward—Slie failed from hence to join con
voy at Fort Antonio, but unfortunately ran
rms, . a " 00 P of war in the night ; from
con- '•'" lS accident, the Amelia received Fo 'much
sov- damage in her, bows, that Captain S nnan
ion, was obliged to bear away for the Gulf paf
pur- sage,. ta secure his bowsprit and put the vef
Ue t0 before the wind. '
nit.- , Monday arrived the brig Dolly, Higgins,
ther y° m ™ ilitnngton, North Carolina. Oa
om, 3°th ult. about 12 leagues to theeaft
yto ward of Turk's island, he was boarded by
hey a French fchoonei* privateer, mountincr fo ur
ltles carriage gunsand two fwivels,whoexamined
his papers, and finding the argo to be lum
utj]m b e r only, fuffered him to proceed, after put'
ting 6 men on board, that belonged to the
barque Neptune, Captain O'Connor, from
New-\ork to Falmouth, which they had
taken the night before.
Tuesday arrived the brig Aurora, Vincent
from New York, and the schooner Atlantic,-
vs. Cottle » from Boston ; and the brig Relief,
48 ro^n Pafqoutank.
2 5 _ Alfo ' arrived at Black River, the fehr.
I 5 Regulator, Smith, from New-York.
I°. i———Urn .
For New-York,
to James "Taylor, Matter,
I I T ' NG at Ckefnut-ftrcet wharf, will fail in a
O few days, and take fftight very low. Apply
° on board, or to '
7 J°f e ph Anthony & Co
-7 July "- d3t
l NOTICE
-7 T HE ho,tlers of certificates of a loan to the ex
iled citizens of the States of South Carolina and
3 Georgia, under an A& of Congress 13d July,l7Bl
0 are informed, that by lodging the fame with
8 George Simpfon, Calhier of the Bank of the Unit
-7 ed States, they will be erabled to receive payment
of ptißc.pal and interest, as soon as the certificate-,
can be forwarded to Charleston fkr fettlcment.and
orders received for their discharge.
" July 12.' 6 t
x A quarterly Meeting
Of " The Society for the rnftitutK-n and C|p.
port of F.rft Day or Sunday Schools in the City
>1 of Philadelphia, the Diftriil of Southwark and
s the Northern Liberties," will be held at John
s ElV's fchooi room in Third near Mulberry
Street, at half part 7 o'clock this Evenine '
GEORGE WILLIAMS, Sec'ry.
| June n. '
1 ~~
1 Forty Dollars Reward.
; B AN away from the f.ibfcriber on the sec
. IV ond day of this inft. July, a Mulatto Man,
named Will Bowzer, about forty years of age,
, five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
: chunky made ; had on when he went awav, a.
■ drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
. fanl fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
, Blake of this place ; and it is expetfed fee has
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State.—Any perion apprehending the said fel
low, and securing him so that I Gan get him a
gaiir, flull receive the above reward if taken
out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the counry, and all reasonable charges if bro't
home'.
" . JESSE REED,
Oieen Ann's County, Maryland.
July 3. _ ' w Jt _
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service of the fubferiber,
on the 19th instant, a neero n.an hytlie -
namtfof DICK, about twenty-five voarj of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
a carpentet, and is a very lively briik work
man. His countenance is very good—-When
I'peken to, he converses with ease and confi
dence, and is pretty sagacious. I p'urchafed
the laid fellow ef Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
name he has been advertised in the Richmond
newspapers. During his last runaway trip (last
summer) he was employed a corifiderahle length
of time, by some perfoti near Dumfries, fnm
which circumltance, I he has taken
another nothetn route I forewarm all perl'ons
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof veflils and others, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
miles of this city ; and an additional fuih, in
proportion to the distance he may he brought,
or the trouble and expence the apprehsnder may
be at, in bringing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N.B. His apparel was of the usual negro kiid,
but he had more cloaths than is cuftomiry fur
them to poifels.
A D.
Richmond, June :i, x 797.Proposals | wee!
For carrying MAIL S of the
United States on the following Tue
Pofl Roads, will be received b/i
at the- General Poji-Office, in 6
Philadelphia, until the yjl
day of July next, inch/Jive. " l
MAikE. d °y
I. From Brewer's or Scoodie by Machias, Chan- "Y
dUr's river and Columbia, to Narraguagus once a
I.eave Brewer's every Saturday at 2 P M, and 6 A
arrive at Narraguagus the next Tuesday at 6p. 2
m— Returning, leave Narraguagus every Wedpef- ver
day it 6 a Mi and arrive at Brewer's th« next 6a-
tuiday by 19 a m. WCI
2. .am NarrajtuSgusby Gouldlborough, Sulli- '
van! Trenton, Sluehifl, Cuftine, PenoWcot, Bucks- at I
ton, Frankfort, Profpeel and Belfaft to Duck- nej
'l'rap once a week. , f
Leave Narraguanis every Wednesday by 6 a iu
m, and arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by I"
io am. Returning. Leave Duck Trap every Sa- ; '
turdav by 2 P M and arrive at Narraguagus the ; He
next i'u-.-fday by 6r M. i ]
3. Frem Duck Trap by Camden, Thoniafton, arr
Warren, Wa'doborough, NewcaftU, Wifcaffet, <»g
Bath, drunfwick, Fret port and North Yarinout, arr
to Portland or.ee a week.
Leave DuekTrap every Saturday by 2 p m, and j am
arrive at Portland the next Tuesday by 6 pm. Rt- •
turning. Leave Portland every Wednelday ty 6 ( riv
A m and art iye at Duck Trap the next Saturday by Le
10 a m. ar!
4. From Portland by Biddeford, U elles and
York, to Portfmsuth. ' lu
Afrit 15 to October 15 Leave Portland every At
Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 6 a m, and ar- \
rive at Portfinouth tha fame days by 6r m . Return- ar
teve Portfmoath evcry Mor.djy, W ednef. , tut
and Friday at 9 ru, and arrive at Portland on ar
the next'day by 0. p M.
Oaobtr ij 10 April 15. I.eave Pertland every R .
Monday and Thursday at 6 a h, and arrive at
Poiffmouth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 am. Re- M
turning. Leave Portfraouth every Tuelday and T
Friday at I rM, and arrive at Portland evcry j so
Wednesday and Saturday ?t 5 pm j e ,
5. From Portland by North-Yarmauth, Free- ! ar
pai t, Bmr.fwick, Bath, Wifcaffet, Pittf- g
t on and Hallowell Hook to H dlowell court houie,
once a wefk. rj
Leave Portland every Friday at BA. M, and sr. K
rive at Hallowcll t»urt-hottfe the next Saturday by
7P M. Returning. Leave Hallowell court-houle B
every We.hu fday by 5A M, and arrive at Port- u
land on Thursday by 6 P M. X
6. From Wifcaffet by Dresden, Pittflon, Hallo
well Hoik, Hallowell court-house, Winthrop,
Monmouth, Green, New-Gloucester and Gray to
Portland once a weik.
Leave Portland every Monday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Wifeaflct on Wednesday noon. Return
ing. Leave Wifcaffet on Wednesday at 3 PM,and
arriveat Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
7. From Hallowell Hook by Vaffalborongh,
Fort Halifax, Winflow, Fairfield and Canaan to
N< rridgewftk once a week.
Leave Hallowell H°° k * ver y Wednesday at 11
AM, and arriveat Norridgewoclt on Thurlday
by 6 PM. Returning. Leave Norndgewrck on
Monday at 2l' M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook ,
Oil "fuefJay t;y 6P M.
8- From Hallowell Hook to farmington on San- a
dy t ivcr once in two weeks. 1
Leave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8A M, and arrive at Farmingtoh by 6 P M. i
Returning. Leave Farmington every other Thurf- •
day at 8A M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook by 6 1
PM. _
9. From Portland by Falmouth, Gorham, Bux
ton, Standith, Limtrielt, Parfonfield, Sliapleigh 1
and Lebanon to Berwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8 A M,
and arrive at Berwick on Wednesday by noon.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at 1 P
M, and arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
10. From Standith by Flinftown, Fryburg aca
demy, Conwa/ and Tamworth to Sandwich in New
Hampshire once in two weeks.
Leave Standifh evcry other Tuesday by 8 AM,
and arrive at Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning. Lfave Sandwich every ether i hurfday at
8 AM, and arrive at Standilh on Friday by 6
r m.
11. From Wells by Waterboro', Sanford, Dough
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portsmouth once
a week.
Leave Wells every Tu-fday by 6 A M, and ar
riveat Portsmouth on Wednesday by ic A M. Re
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Wednesday by
2 PM, and arrive at Wells Bext Thursday by i
PM.
NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
XI. From Portsmouth by Dover, Rochester and
Moultonborough to Plymouth, returning by New-
Hampton, Meredith, Gilmsntown, Nottingham
and Durham to Portsmouth once in two weeks.
Leave Portsmouth every other Wednesday by 8
A M, and arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6
P M Returning, Receive the mail at Plymouth
evey other Saturday by 8 A M, and return to
Porrtfmouth the next Tuesday by 4 P M.
Note. " The poll is to go and return on this route
alternately."
13 From Portsmouth by Exeter, Chester, Lon
donderry, Amherft, Peterborough and Marlbo
rough to Keene, once a week.
Leave Portsmouth every Thursday by 8 A M,
arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Chester by 6 P M,
aRd at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M Reluming.
Leave Keene every Monday by 8 A M, aarive at
Chester on Tut fday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nesday by 9 AM, and at Portsmouth by 4 PM.
14. From Concotd by Plymouth to Haverhill,
once a wetk.
I.eave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at Plymouth on Tuesday by 3 P M, and at Haver
hill on Wednesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave
Haverhill every Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at |
Plymouth on Friday by 9 A M, and at Concord en
Saturday by 4 P M.
ljr. From Exeter ta Hampton Falls, three times
a week from April 15 to October ij, and twice a
week from Odlober 15 to April 15.
Leave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv
al after the arrival of the'mail from Boston, and
deliver it at Exeter ill two hours, remain at Exeter
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hours fiom tha time of leaving it.
MASSACHUSETTS.
16. From ewburyport, Haverhill, Kingflon,
Exeter, New Market and Durham to Dover once
a we«k.
Leave Newburyport every Monday by 10 A M,
a rive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. Return
ing. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 PM, and
at rive at Newburyporton Friday by 3 P M.
17. From Salem to Gloueefter once a week.
I.eave Cloucefter evcry Wednesday by 7 A M,
3 nd arrive at Salem by 11 AM. Returning. Leave
Salem every Wednesday by 1 P M, and arrive at
GloUcefler by 6 V M.
Note, i-hould this mail be carried in a stage it is
to be carried as often as the stage runs, the hours
dtfired to be stated in the proposals.
jB. From Sal to Marblehead three times a
week. Leave Salem every Monday, Wednesday,
arid Friday immediate 1 )' after the arrival of the
mail from Bolton, and deliver it at Marblehead in
one hour and an half, leave Marblehead in one
hour and a half and return to salem in two hours.
19. l rom Boston, by Acdover, Haverhill and
Cticftfr sb Concord In New Hampfiiire ence a i ti.au
week. , |«'
Leave Csncord every Monday by 6 A M,arrive 3;
at Chester by 2P M, and arrive at Bolton on Nev
Tuesday by 4P M. Returning. Leave Bolton ev- '•
cry Friday by 9A M, arrive at Chester on Saturdap a ' "
by 11 A t.l, and arrive atConcordon Saturday by ''
'6 PM , , 6F
20. From Boflon by Concord, Lancafler, Leo
minfter and Artiburnham to Marlborough, Keene
and Walpole in New Hampftiire.
Leave ieominHcr every Thursday by 6* M, 3
arrive at Keeneby 9P M, annd at Walpoleon l'n-
doy by 10 A M Returning- £<ave Wulpoleev ;
cry Saturday or Sunday by 5 AM, arrive a Keene
by 9A M, and at ieominfter ia t'.ie evening. Re[
Leave Xeominfter evcry Monday and rhurfdgyby g
6 A M, and arrive at Boston by 6 P M. p j
2:. From Boftou by Qvincy. Hinghsm, Hano- 3
ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, Barnftaule, Yarmouth, 1
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Trurooneea a t
week. Lea
Leave Bolton every Thursday by 3* * ""ive rivt
at Sandwich •» Friday by 6p M,and at 1 ruro the 3
next Sunday by 6a m. Returning, .Leave Truro bur
every Monday by 8a m, arrive at Sandwich on I
Tu.fday by 7? m, and at Boston on Thurfdaj by ar - 1
lO ii.'From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes Bu _
' Hole to Edgsrton once a weeek. . •
| Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1* m, and
arrive at Edgarton on Monday by 11 am. Return-
ing Leave Edgarton ®n Monday by % r m, and .
arrive atSandwich on Tuesday by noon- arr
13. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton on
and Taunton to Newport once a week. da;
Leave Boston evsry Monday by 6 a m, and ar
-1 rive at Newport by & p M,on Tuesday. Returning
I.eave Newport every Wednesday by 8a m, and <
arrive at Boston on I hurfday by 6 pm. n<
[ 24. Fr. m Boston by Charleston, Medford, Wo
burn, Billcrica, Chelmsford and Tyngboroegh to f r
r Atnherft ence a week. » da
Leave Boston every Thursday by 10 a m, an 4 si
arrive at A mherft the next Saturday noon. Re- rn
. turnig. Amherft every Monday nocn, and
1 arrive at Boston on Wednesday by 3 p m. P°
I to
25. From Boston by Randolph, Bridgewater,
r Raynham and Taunton to New Bedford. 3r
* From Mat Ito November I. Leave Boston every '.V
' Monday, wednesday and Friday at 10 pm, arrive at 1
Tjmnton the next day by II A M, and at New Bed
' ford by 8 v m. Returning. Leave New Bedford Fi
j ever) Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 10 p m, m
" j arrive at Taunton the next Hay by 11 A m, and at
Boston bv 8 p m
From November Ito May u I.eave Boston eve •
ry wednesday and Friday at 9 a u,arrive at Tan- q|
* ton by 8r m, and at New Bedford on Thursday oc
J Saturday by 8 r m. Returning. Leave New
e Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 * "• *
arrive at Taunton by 8 pm, and at Boston ®n
Tuesday and Thursday by 7 p m.
26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a 11
week from November Ito May I. Leave New
Bedford evety Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar- ?
,d rive-at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Nantuc- 1 J
kct every Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and
1( j arrive at New Bedford in the evening. 5
From May Ito November I. Leave New Bed
h ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10 a
t o am, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re- j
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tue day, Thurf- ,
„ day and Saturday at 8 a m , and arrive at New Bed
jy ford in the evening, winds and tide permitting. 1
mi 17. From Taunton by Dighton and Semerfetto 1
warren once a week. I
Leave Taunton every wedttefday by 5a m, and ,
n- arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by I
p m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r m. ,
ay 28. From Boston byDedham, Providence, Plain- j
VI. field, Norwich, New London,Saybreok, Killing- j
rf- worth, Guilford aßd New Haven to New York
6 t/iree times a week.
ix- From May Ito Nevember I. Leave Boston eve- '
K h ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 10 a m,
arrive at Providence by 6 p m, arrive at Norwich
M > on wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
New London by 3 p m, arrive a> New Haven on
p Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan
ford by 9 p m, and at New York on Friday, Mon
■a- day and wednesday by noon.' Returning. Leave
; w New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 10 A m, arrive at New Haven on wednesday,
111 Friday and Monday by a r m, at Norwich on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Pro.
at vidence by 8p m, and at Boston on Friday, Mon
-6 day and wednesday by I* m.
November Ito May I. Leave Boston every
;h- Tuefiiay, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
rive at providence the next days by 9 a m, at New
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tuef
ar- Jay by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
Re- an d we dnesday by 3r m, at Stratford by * p m,
hy and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
* and Friday by II am. Returning. Leave New
York every Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday by II
a m, arrive at Stratford the next day* by S p m, at
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
, by 9 a m, at New London on wednesday, Friday
and Monday by 3 r m, at providence, Thursday,
:w " Saturday and Tuesday by 4 p at Befton on Fri
13m day, Monday and wednesday by 3 PM.
, y 8 29. From Boston byDedham, Mendon, romfret
iy 6 and Tolland to Hartford »nce a week,
uth Leave Boston every Thursday by 7a m, arrive
to at Hartford the next Saturday by 6p M. Return
ing. Leave Hartford every Monday by $ A M,
,ute and arrive at Boston on wednesday by jr m.
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
on ~ week.
bo- Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6a m,
and arrive at Newport by 4p «• Leave Newport
M, evcry Friday by 8 am, and arrive a: New Bedford
'M> by 5p m.
3X. From Worc«fter by Rutland, Peter (ham and
* X Northfield to Brattleborough once a week.
e " Leave worcester every Tuesday by Ip m. and
l,mi arrive at Brattleborough on wednesday by 6p M-
Returning. Leave Brattleborough every Thurf
rive day by 6 am, and arrive at worcester on Friday
noon.
3a. From Bredkfield by Bclchertown, North
!ave ampton, worthington.iittsfield and New Lebanon
, to Albany
Leave Brookfield every Tuesday and Friday by
9a m, arrive at Northampton by 6p m. Leave
me * Northampton every w cdnefday and Saturday at 5
" a am, arrive at pittsfield by 1 P M, and at Albany
on Thursday and Monday by 7 r k. Returniug.
nT I Leave Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a m, arrive at pittsfield by 5 r m, at Northamp
:et r r ton on Thursday and Monday by 7p m, and ar
' rive at Brookfield on Friday and Tuesday by 4
p M.
33. From Springfield by WeQfield and Stocky
bridge to ICinderhook onco a week.
[ton ' May Ito November 1. Leave Springfield eve
once r y tuesday by 3p M, arrive at Kindeiheok en
Thursday by 6 P M. Returning. Leave Kinder
-1M ' hook every Friday by 9 AM, arrive at Stock
tur"~ bridge by 3p m. Leave Strckbridgc on Monday
and by 6.1 m , and arrive at Springfield by 7 rm .
November I to.May I. Leave Springfield every
wednesday at 6 a m, and arrive at Kinderhook on
M, "I hurfday by 2p m. Returning. Leave Kinder
eave' hook on rhurfday by 4 p m, arrive at Stockbrfdge
eat on Friday noon Leave Stockbridge every Tues
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Springfield by 7 p m.
it is 34. From Sutfield bv Well Springfield, Northamp
lUUrs ton, Greenfield, Brattleboiough, Weftminltcr, \Val
pole, Charleftown and Windfoi to Hanover twice a
week.
5 s a Leave Suffield every Tuefd«y and Friday at am,
day, nive at Northampton by >pm, at Walpoleon \Vfd
nefday and Saturday by $ p m, at Windsor on ~?vlon
din day and Thurtday by 2 rm, and at Hanover by 7 r
one m Returning. Leave Hanover every Tuesday and
<urs. Friday by 6 a M,anive at WindCorby 1 PM,atWal
and pole on Wednesday and Saturday by 7p m, and at
Northampton on Monday and Thcrfdayby and
atSuflicM by 7 PM. J®.
35. From ilanover by Oxford and Haverhill to 5I
Newbury one a week. , in t>
Leave Hanover every wednesday by 6 a M, arrive L
at Haverhill by 4 P M,' and at Newbury by 5P M. arri'
Returning. Leave Newbury every Thursday by 6 A Rot
M, an ivcal Haverhill by 8 A md a: Haverhill by at R
6P M 5
- and
VfRiA NT. 1
36- From Windsor by Royalfton, Randolph, Will- r "<
iamftonand Montpe'.ier to Burlington once in two / - c; !
. r am
weeks. £
leave Windsor every other Thurfdij by 6 A M, c
ond arrive at Burlington the ncxtSstuiday hy 6P M. onc
Returning. leave Burlington eveiy other J
by 6A M, and arrive at Windsor b; 6 #
P M. j
37. From Windfjr. to Rutland once a week.
Lc ave Rutland every Monday by 7A M and arrive Mo
at Windsor ou Tliurtday bv 6P M. Returning. °
Leave W.ndfor every Wednesday by 6 AM, and ar- Wa
rive at Rutland on Thurlday hy 6 p m. ,o '''
38. From Burllington by Vergennes and Middle- j
bury to Kutland a week. *' *
Leave Burlington every TKurfday by 8 a M,and Lea
arrive at Rutland on Saturday by 6p m. Returning, ar I
Leave Rutland every Monday by 8 am. and arrive at '
Burlington on Wednesday noon. Nc
39. From Rutland by Mmchefter, Bennington, 1
Lanfingburg and Troy to Albany. ' lv
Leave Rutland every Monday at 8 a M,andarrive Le.
at Albany the next Wednesday by 6p mi Return- Nc
ing. Albany every Thorfday by 8a m, and I
arrive at Bennington by 7 pm. Leave Bennington to
on Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 * «"
rh:de.island. _
40. From Piovidence by Briliol and Warren to
Newport. ( j
Leave Providence every Monday, Wednesday and I
Friday by 7 AM, and arrive at Newport the fame I
days bv 5 PM. Returning. Leave Newport every I
Tuelday, Thuifday and Saturday by 8 am, andar. 1
rive at Providence by 4 p m.
41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New- I
port, South Kingston, Weftcrly and Stonington Point |
to New London once a week. I *
1 Leave Providence every Tuesday by 8a n, and 1
arrive at Newport by 6 p m\ leave Newport every I
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at New London on I L
' Thursday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon- I 1
• don on Thursday by 3p M, and arrive at Newport on I
1 Friday by 6p m, leave Newport on Monday by 7 A I c(
, m, and arrive at Pitividence by jr u. I
£ ■! ■ I
CONNECTICUT.
I
42. From by Wnadham to Norwich
' once a week. I 1
Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar. j
v rive at Norwich by 7p m. Returning. Leave Nor- j
'• wich every Monday by 6a m, and arrive at Hartford 1 I
n by 7r m. I >
43. From Hartford by Middletown, Modus Land- I
_ ing and Colcheftrr to New-London, ooce a week. Ir
Leave Hartford every Tuesday at » r m, and arrive I v
at New London on Wednesday by 7 rm. Return- I
" I ing. Leave New London every Thursday by n a I 3
; M, andariive at Hartford on Friday by 7 pM. II
44. From Hartford by' New Hartford, Canaan, I a
Sheffield ar.d HiiHiJale to Hudson onee a week
Leave Hartford eveiy Monda y *at tp m, and arrive I a
0 at Hudson on Wednesday by s» am. Returning I
Leave Hudson every Wednesday at 1 r u, and arrive I a
f- at Hartford on Friday by it am. i
I- 45. From Hartfoid by Litchfield, New Milford, It
New own, Danbury and Ridgefield to New York
to once a week.
Leave Hartford every Monday by 10 a m, arrive at I
• Litchfi'ld bv 7 P " New Milford on Tuesday by ;
It a M, and at New Yoik on Thursday by 8 a m. I 1
1 Returnrng. Leave New York every Thursday by 4 I
p m, arrive at New Milfofd on Saturday noon, at I
n * Litchfield by 7 r and at Hartford on Monday by I 1
K" 8a m;
k From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury, I
Woodbury, Bethlero, Litchfield and Gofhen, to Ca- I
naan, once a week.
e " Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive at Litch- I
field by 7 » M, and at New Haven on Wednesday by I
ch lo A M Leave New Haven every Wednesday by 2 I
at pm, arrive at Litchfield on Thursday noon, and at
00 Canaan by 7r M. I
n- 47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford, I
n- Fredericktown, Dover, Shar n, Sheffield, Great I
xe Barrington, Stockbridge, Pittifield and Williamllon I
ay to Bennington |
iy Leave New York e*ery Monday, Wednesday and
on Fridav at 5A M, the next Wednesday, Friday and I
0. Monday at 6 PM. Returning, leave Bennington
every Thurfdav, Saturday and Tuesday by (AM,
and arrive at New York the next Saturday, Tuesday I
and Thursday by 6 P M.
:ry if the ft ages run but once t week on this route the I
ar- m ail itto leave New York every Monday at SAM, I
•w arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6P M. Leave |
ef- Bennington on Thursday by 5A M, and arrive at I
lay New York on Saturday by 6P M. I
M 48. From New York bv Yonkers.Peekfkill, Fish- I
lay kill, Poughkeepfie, Rhinebeck, Redhook, Clermont,
Hudfop, Clavcrac and KinderhooV. to Albany three I
, , tiroes a week. I
Leave New York every Monday. Wednesday and I
1 Friday by »P M, arrive at Tarry town by 8P M.
. J '" Leave Tarrytown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa- |
y turdayats AM, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 PM. I
a y- Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Fridav and Sunday
ri " bv jA M, arrive at Kinderhookby 7 PM. Leave
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday, I
ret at jA M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Return- I
ing. Leave Albany Thuifday, Saturday and Mon- I
ive day by 3 P M, arrive at Kinderhook bv 7 P M. I
rn . Leave Kindeihook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at I
M 5 AM, arrive at Pdughkeepfie by 7 p m. Leave I
' Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at I
5 AM, arrive at Tarrytown by 7p m. Leave Tarry- I
■ a town every Snndav, Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a |
m, arrive at New Vork >t 11 a m.
m, 49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfingburgh, to |
iort Salem, once a week.
ori Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8A m, arrive at
Lanlingbnrghby 10 Am, and at by 4p m. Rc- a
turning. Leave Salem every Monday, by 8a m, aud I
arrive at Albany by j p m.
50. Fiom Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Ver- j
and gennes, Bason-Harbour, Wilifboro', Peru and Platts- I
M ■ burgh, to Champlain-town, once in two weeks,
jrf- Leave Salem every other Wednefdavby 5a m, and J
day arrive at Plattfburgh the next Sunday by 5p m. Rc- I
turning. Leave Plattfburgh every other Monday at 8 I
rth- am, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4p m.
non 5 1 * From Lanfingburghby Waterford, Stillwater,
Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Faiihaven, to I
ljy Rutland, in Vertnout.
Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and
arrive at Rutlarid ihenext SaTuidav by 6 P M. Re
-1 " turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon,
. and arrive at Lanfingburgh on Thursday by 10 A M.
5«. From Albany by Scheueftady, Tripes Hill,
5 Conajoharr y, German Flatr s. Old Fort Schuylei an 1
m P" Whitestown to Rome. The times dejtrei tohejiated in
ar " the firofofals.
y 4 53. From Schcnc&sdy by Balltown Springs and
Glenlb'idge to Sandy Hill once a week.
. Leave Scheneftady every Tuesday by 6 a m. and
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4p m. Leave Sandy Hill on
Wednesday Ijiy 6 am, and arrive at Schene&ady by
CVC " 4*«-
on 54. From Tripefnilltojohnftononcea week.
der " Leave Tripefhill in one hour alter the mail arrives
ock ' from Albany on Tuelday, arrive at Johnfton in two
tday houts, flay at JohnHon two hours, and return to
Tripefhill in two hours,
very -j. From Conajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo-
It on perltown twice a week.
der- Leave Conajoharry every Wednesday and Saturday
fdge at 6 a-m, and arrive at Cooperliown by sf m.
uef- Leave Cooperftown every Tuesday and Friday by 10
m. Am, and arrive at Conajoharry by 6r m,
imp. 56. From Cooperftown by Butternuts and Oxford
,Val to Onion once in two weeks.
ice a Leave Union every other Monday by 10 am, ?na
arrive at Cooperftown on Wednesday by 5p M. Rc
A M turning. Leave Cooperftown every other Thursday
i/ed- by 6A M, and arrive at Union or, Saturday by 3P m.
lon. 57. From O d Fort Schuyler by Cincinnatus 19
r7 r Oxford Academf once in two weeks,
and Leave Old Fort Schuyler every other Thuifday by
A'al- 6A M. and arrive at Oxford 0.1 Friday noon. Re
d at turning. Leave Oxlord every other Fnday. by 2f M,
and arrive at Old Fort Schii/cr on Saturday by 7 P. 1 3 P
M. I by 8
58. From Rome by to Rotterdam once j
in two weeks. !
Lcavc Rome eveiy other Thurfdav by 10 AM, and I
atrive at Rotterdam by 6 PM. Returning. htave j
Rotterdam every other Friday by 9 AM, and arrive I *•
at Rome by 6P M, I i ,
Ag. From Rome by Oneida, Onondaigus, Scipio j '° l '
ana Geneva to Kanandaigua once a weelt j _ ■
Lc ave Rome every Thursday by 10 A M, and ar- I ->eel
1 rsve at Kanandaigua every Monday to AM, I Gou
/.eave Kanundaigua every Monday by 10 A M, and I /.ea
ariiveat Rome the next Thursday by 8 A M. I arrn
60. Fiom Kanandaigua by Hartford to pjiagara I 8,
once in two weeks I Port
Z.eaVe Kanandaigua every other other Monday by 10 I £
A M, and arrive at Niagaia the «ext Wednesday by 7 j m, ;
PM. Returning. leave Niagara eveiy oiher Fri- I turn
day by 6 A M. and arrive at Kanandaigua the next j
Monday by 6A M. j g
61. From Rhinebeck by Kingston, Shawangunk, | UI
Wardfbridge, Goshen, Hamburg, Newtown, John- | j
fonfburg and Hopti to Eafton, once a week. j
Leave Eafton every Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive | . fl 1
at Rhinebeck thenext Sunday by £P M. Returning. I »'
Leave Rhinebeck every Monday by 8 A M $ and arrive I
at Eafton en Thursday by 10 A M. I
62. From New York by Ha kenfack, Par am as, I onc
New Antrim and Chester to Goftien once a week. I
Leave New York every Friday at 7 A M, and ar- I at r
rive at Golhcn on Saturday by 6 PM. Returning. IQu
Leave Gofhenevery Tuesday at 6A M, and arrive at | #
New Yorkon Wednesday by 6 PM. | h oi:
63. From Fifhkillby Ne.vburgand New Windsor 1 1
to Gofhen once a week. I 2
Leave Fifhkill every Wednesday by 7 AM, and I nel
arrive at Gofhen by 5 PM. Leave Golhrn every eve
Tuesday at 7A M, and arrive at Tilhkill by 5P M. j col
64. From New Y®rk by Jamaica, Huntington,
Smithtown, Brookhaven, Suffolk, Southampton & an«
j Bridgehampton t®Sagharbour once a week. 1 in
Leave New York every Thursday at 10 A M< and
arrive at Sagharboilr the next Saturday by 6 P M. j A
Le?ve Sagharbour every Monday at 8 A M, and ar- j p
rive at New York on Wednesday by 5 P M. | M
Ti
NEW- JERSEY.
. 65. Frbm Woodbridge to Amboy three times a J
1 week.
I I Leave Woodbridge every Monday, Wednesday &
. Friday at 8A M, and arrive at Amboy by 9 A M. on
, I Leave Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
1 P M. M
, I 66. From Trenton bv Allentown, Monmouth I re
k I court-house, Shrewsbury, Middletown Point, Spots- I
I wood, New Brunfwick, Somerset, New Gcrmanton, I j e j
I Pittftonand Flemingtonto Trenton once a week.
I Leave Trentou every Tuesday bv ■« AM, and re- a)]
I tarn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M. j A
h 67. From Philadelphia »v launtan and Atfion to I
I Tuckerton once in two wcek» |
- I Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3] - s
- \ P M, arrive at Tuckerton on Thursday bv 6 P M. 1
d 1 Leave Tuckerton every otber Tuesday by 6 A M, and I 31
I arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday t>y 9A M. j ir
t- I 68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swedefbo- I
I rough, Woodftown and Salem to Bridgetown once • j N'
■c I week. I
1- I Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by j b
a I 3 o'clock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by 2 I F
IP M. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at 8A M, Bnd I
1, arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday at 9A M. b
69- From Philadelphia bv Jenkintown, Plumftead I
'c I and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eafton once a week. Ij;
g. I Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday by ioAM.L
/e and arrive at Eafto* on Thursday by 8P M. Return.
I iog. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9 AM, andar- I
d, I rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3 P M. I
rk 70. From Plumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to j (
I Pittftononcea week. I
at Leave Plumftead every Thursday by 5 AM, arrive I <
,y K Pittflon by 11 A M. Leave Pittfton by 1 P M, 1
«. and arrive at Plumft ad by 7P M.
4 I 71. From Eafton to WilkeQwrre once a week. 1
at Leave Eafton every Thursday by 3P M, and arrive $
>y at Wilkefbarre on Saturday noon. Returning Leave I (
Wiikefbarrre every Tuesday noon, and arrive at Ea- I
y I flon every Thurlday by noon. | 1
a. 72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap, |
Pottfcrove, Reading, Lebanon »nd Harrifburg to s
h- I Carlisle.
yy I Oftober 1j to April 15. Leave Philadelphia every 1 I
2 I Tuesday and Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading I
at I every Thursday and Saturday at 4 PM. Leave Read-
I ing every Friday at 8 A M, arrive at Carlisle every
d I Sunday by II AM. Returning Leave Carlisle eve- j ]
•at Iry Sunday by »P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday 1
3„ bv 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday aud 1
I Monday by 8 \ M. and arrive at Philadelphia on
id I Thurlday and Tuesday by 4 P M. J
„d I April a 5, to Oft >ber 15. Leave Philadelphia eve
jn ] ry Wednesday and Friday at 8 AM, arrive at Read-
I ing on Thurlday aud Saturday by 11 AM. Leave
ay I Reading every Thursday noon, and arrive at Carlisle
I the next Saturday by 11 A M. Returning. Leave
he I Carlisle evory Monday noon, arrive at Rcadinc pn
M, I Tuesday bv 7P M. Leave Reading every Wcdnef
,ve I day and Monday at 8 A M, and arrive at Philadel
at I phiaon Thursday and Tuefdsy byq A M
I 73. From Reading -by Hamburg. Sunbury aud
[h- I Northumberland to Louifburg once a week,
r.t, I Leave Reading every Eriday at 6 AM, and arrive
ree lat Louifburg on Monday by 10 A M. Returning.
I Leave Louifburg every Tuesday neon, and arrive at
nd I Reading on Thursday by 4 P M.
M. 74- From Harrifburg by Peie.fburg, Millerftown,
Sa- I Thompfontown, Mifflfntown, Louiftown, Hunting-
M. I don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belle Fount, Milcf
lay burg, Aaronfburg, Miftlinburg, Louilburg, Northum
ave berkind, Sunbury and Halifax to Harrifburg once in
ay, I two weeks.
rn- I Leave Harrifburg every Saturday by 6A M, watt
an- I ing at each pott-office which shall be established on
M. I the route, two hours, and return again to Harrifburg
at I the next Monday Dy 8 A M,
ave I 75, From Somerset by Connellfville to Union once
at I a week.
ry- j Leave Somerset every Thursday by SA. M.arrive
5 a lat Union b} 4 P. M. Leave Union every Friday bv
I 8 A. M and arrive atSomerfetbY 7 P. M.
to I 76. From PittfturgbyXannonfburg, \Vaftlinston,
I Weft Liberty and Wheeling, to the mouth of Fiih
: at I ing Creek, once a week.
Re- j Leave Pitcfburg every Fridav bv noon, and arrive
iud lat Filhing Creek on Sunday bv 9 A M. Returning.
I.cave Filhing Creek every Wednesday bv 4 PM,
r er . J and arrive at Pi tfburgthe next Friday by 30 AM.
tts- I 77. From Prelton by Wifhington to Cincinnati
I once a week.
ind I Leave PVcfton every Friday at noon, arrive atWafti-
R.c- I ington by 8 P M, and at Cincinnati the next Monday
it 8 I noon. Returniog. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday
1. lat6 AM, and arrive at Washington ou Wednesday
ter, I by 5P M. Leave Walhington at 9 P ill, md arrive
to lat l'refton on Friday by 114 AM.
I From Pcterfbjrg bv City Point to Bermuda Hnnd
and I led, three times a week.
Re- I Leave Petersburg every Monday, Wednesday and
>on, I Friday bj 6 A M, and arrive at Bermuda Hundred
a. 'lby<o AM. Leave Bermuda Hundred by 11 AM,
dill, I add arrive at\Petcifburg by 3 P M, »n the fame days,
an 1 I _____—
d m I XENTU(hY.
I 78. From Washington by Springfield, Bourbon,
""1 Lexington, Frankfort and Harrodtburg to Danville
j once a week,
and I Leave Wafhing'.onevery Saturday by 8A M, »nd
lon I arrive at Danville the next Monday by 5 P»M. Re-
I turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by .8 A M.
I and arrive at Lexiogton on Wednesday noon, and at
I Wathingt-nonThurfday by 6 P M.
rives I yg. from Danville to Leu fville by Beatdftown
two I oriee in two weeks
nto I Leafre Danville every other Tu:iday bv noon, ar.
1 rive at Louisville the next Thuifday by 3 PM.
100- Returning Leave. Lotlilville every other Fnday by
i 6 A M, and arrive at DabviUe on Saturday by 6 P M
"•day I g 0 Fiom Danville by Stamford and Cumberland
p M - I Gap to Moffat's store in Tennessee once a week,
y lO I Leave Danvi'leevery Monday at 2P M, and arrive
I at Moffat's store the next Thursday by 6 PM. Leave
ford j Moffat's store every Friday by 6 A M, and arrive at
I Danville on Monday by 10 A M.
?nd I ' ,
( Rc TENNESSEE.
p U M V . B|. From Knoxville by Snnth Weft Point and
is to Fort Blount and C-aig Fort to NafliVtile once in two
I weeks* ,
yby I Leave Knoxville every other Tuesday by 5 A
Re- | and arrive at\ Nafbville the next Monday by. 9 A -
pm, f IJ.c'.urniag, Leave Naftivilleevery oibej uicijuiy oy
i PM. and arrive at Knoxvlil; the neit Saturday .
by 8 PM.
MARTI.AND AhV> riRGINUr
8l From Baltimsre by Eltic«tt's Lower Mills,
Montgomery court-house, Charlefburg, Aeefburg,
Middleburg and Warrenton to Culpeper court
hoyfe, oiice a week.
/,eave Baltimore every Monday nooa, arrive at
Leelburg on Tuesday evening, and at Culpeper
Court. Houle the next Thursday n9on. Returning'.
/.eave Culpeper court-hacfe every Friday noon, and
arrive at Baltimore the next Monday by 9 A M.
83. From Allen's Frtfft by Zuiflow's ferry to
Port Conway in Virginia. <-
Leave Allen's Freih every other Monday by 6 a
M, arod arrive at Port Conway by 6 P M. Re
turning. Leave Fort Conway every otner Tues
day byBAM, and arrived Allen's Frelh by 7PM.
84. From Morgantown by Petty John to Clark
fbury once in two week 3.
Leave Morgantown every other Monday by 5 a
M, and arrive at Ciatkfburg by 5 > .VI. Return
ing. ieaveClarkfburg every other Tuesday by 8
a M, and arrive at Morgantown by 8 P M.
85. From Todd's to King and Queen Court H.
once a week. A
Leave Todd's every I'hurfday by 9 a M, arrive
atKingand Qneenby II a M. Lave King and
Queen
86. From Halifax by :9anville to Cafwell court
house once in two weeks.
Leave Halifax court-hoafe every other Tuesday by
a P M, arrive at Cafwell court-house the no.. Wed- -
nefday by 6P M. Returning. Leave Cafwell C.H . *
everyother Thursday by 6 AM, ar»d arrive at Halifax'
court houfe.oa Friday by noon.
87. From Peterfburgh by Suffer court house
and Southampton court house to South Quay, oa:s
in two weeks.
Leave Petersburg every other Wednesday by <5
A M and arrive at South Quay on Thursday by 6
PM' Returning. Leave South Quay every other
Monday by 6 A M and arrive at Petersburg on
Tuesday by 3 P M.
> NORTH-CAROLINA' Be
: 88. From Newbern to Beaufort and Swanfboro' 1
once in two weeks, the maike go alternately. 4
Leave Newbern evury other Fhurfday by 6 A
M, remain at each of the offices two hours, and
1 return to Newbern the next.
89. Frem Wilmington by Georgetown to Char
' lefton, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6 A M
and arriv«at Charleston the next Thursday by 10
AM. Leave Charleston every Thursday uy 3 P
J M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday by
5 PM.
90. From Norfolk by Kempfville, Great Bridge
1 and North Weft River Bridge to Jonefboro', once
in two weeks.
Leave Norfolk every other Wedcefday at 9 A
a M and arrive at Jonefboro' on Thursday by 7P M
Returning. Leave Jon-lboro* every other Monday
y by io-A M and arrive at Norfolk un Tuesday by 6
2 PM.
d 91 From North Wefl River Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
d Leave Nerth Welt River Bridge every other
Friday by 6 A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
'• 6P M. Leave Elizabeth city ev.ry other Satur
v day hy 6A M, and arrive at N. W. rivjr bridge
r " by 6p M.
( 91. From Salem, N. C. by Betfoania, Flower -
° Gap Grayfoneourt-houfe and /ullinville toWythe
, e court-house once in two weeks.
\ 'Leave Salem every other Saturday by 6A M,
and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mon. by 6 r M.
Leave Wythe coutt-houfe every other Tuesday by
/e 9 AM, and arrive at Salem the next Thiirfday by
ve 6P M.
a- 93. From Murfreelboro' by South Quay toSuffclk
once a week,
p, From Murfreefboro' every Wednesday by
to arrive it Suffolk by 6 PM. Returning. Leave Suf
folk every Tuesday by 6 A M, and arrive at Murfreef
ry boro' by6PM.
:i(r Frotn Fayetteville to Pitlfburg once in two
d- weeks.
ry Leave Fayettevilje every other Wednesday by 6 A
e- M, aud a-rive at Piltlburg on Thursday
ay Leave Pittffcurg every 01 her Thursday by aP M, and ar
ud rive at Fayetteville on Friday by 6 P M.' (
oil ,
GEORGIA AND SOU TH-CAROLINA.
ie
d- 95. From Augusta by Robinson at the White
lVe Ponds asd Gillets mills to Coofahatchy, once a
" e week.
IVC Leave Augusta ev«ry Tuesday by 3A M and ar
-0" rive at Csoiahatchy on Wednesday by 7P M. Re
c~ tuning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
M and arrive at Augusta on Monday by J P M.
Georgia, once in two weeks. -
; ve Leave Georgetown every other Monday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at 3P M. Re
at turning. Leave Roc'.ty X.andmg every other Tues
day by 6 A M and arrive at Gsorgetown by 6 PM.
vn,
NEW JERSEY.
t^ 1 " 67, From Newtown by Hacketftown, Morrrftcwn
* n and Chatham to Newark, and from Newa k back by
Chatham, Morriftown, Booneton, Rockaway and
alt " Sparta to Newtown, .once a week.
on Leave Newtown every Thursday by 5 A M and ar
ur6 rive at Newark on Friday by 10 AM. Leave New
ark every Friday bv 2 P M, and arrive at Newtown
ncc on Srturday by 6P M.
Note 1. 'The Post Mafier General may dlter the times
yf arrival and departure at any timeduriug the continuance
on of the contracts, he previously fipulating an adequate ccm
fenfation for any extra expenfc that mqy he ouafioned there
. h>
ive
ng. AW 1. Half an hour fball be allowed Jar opening
M, a „j clojtng the Mail at all offices 'where no particular time
' . ls fP^cijied.
nati
ifti Note 3. For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
j " excepted) in arriving after the times preferibed in an y con
tr*a> the Contrad.o7 flail Jorjeit one dollar, and if the de
ld}i continue until the departure ef any depending Mad,
r - ve whereby the Mails defiined far such depending Aa«:/, loft
a trip, o» additional jorftiiune of jivt dollars shall be
«d- inCUr " i%
and - NAc 4. Ntto/paprrt as mill ae Letters are t» le sent
Ired in the Mails ; and if any petpm making proposals drjtrcs
M, to carry neuifpafers titer than ttofe conveyed in tie mail,
ays. f or Hi own emolument, if mij/f fate in bis prcpofa!) for
■what sum he rvifl carry it uitb that emolument and for
■what sum ■withont that t/xolutr nt.
ion,
v '" e Ntle 5. Should any pttfon m.tlinvpnpifals dfire an
alteration if the \itr.tsof airivat urrd Jtpatture ahwe fpc-
1 fed, he mufl Hate in his proposals the alterations de>md,
j v j" ani the difference they ■will make in the terms of hii ctm
i at trali
>wn Note 6. Perfcns making propcfols are drfred to flute
their prices iy the yetr. •fbtfe 'win amtr+li will ieecne
, ar- their pay quarterly, in the rmtbs of January, Jlpril,
'M. July end QBober.
y fey
' M , Note 7. The contrails are to be in operation on tie frfl
hy of Ofiobcrrcxt, find continui for four ycarr, until
the firff rf Oaokr iSol—FXt.-plmg contrails for the
routes No. 9» 10, 3T, s°> 5 1 » 57* 1A >
vest 7 fi . 77. So, Bj, 83, 84. 87, 90, 91, 9 a, 96
■which arc to continueJor t-woyears until of QSlobtr,
. 1799-
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pqfl-Mafter General.
I General Poft-Offiee, rh:Udelphia> 7
ASI May 17th', *T)r- 5
iy by Juc? •• aawtj3X