■of t\)Z nitcu States, - Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1627.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS.
("Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56,
MnnAn-} south Front-street,
*•') Afternoon— ; & Co. No. 6f
(_ South Front-street.
Forenoons-John Connelly, Old Citv
TueTAnvJ Auiliop, No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
J j Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C. 183 High-street.
T^X«r son ' N °-"
Thursday \ Fox.
( Afternoon —John Connelly.
Pridav \ Forenoon—William Shannon.
' J Afternoon —John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
Real Kftate for
PLANTATION, in a healthy and pood si-
L fuation on Chester Creek, in Middleton
Townlhip, Delaware County, containing 119 V
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land, well timbered ; th? remainder plough land
and watered n.eaHow—of the latter, uiany mor©
acr«s can he made at a small expence. There are
on ("aid [.rcmiCes, a good orchard of bed grafted
fruit, a house, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with {l.ibling under, and a log toiemant on
one part of said place Any m rfon inciining '
10 purchase, may view the prenmes by '
to Wm. Pennbll, on said farm, and know the
terms by applying to Jonathan PENNELL,in the
thorough of Cteder.
uovemOer 31. 3t eod
R E M 0 V~A~JL
Maurice Moynihan,
his friends and the public, that he
ba» removed his Store of Chipa, "Giais, Queens
Ware, and Dry G'jods, from No. 8r North Se
acaud} to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north eafi
corner of Cherry Alky, where he folicus the fa
vor of his former customers.
N. 3. Crates put up with care at the (borteft
notice |L
november 2. dfcf
-7 forTsale," '
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of .Chefnut and-Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Alfc] a genera! assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, consisting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
S,# ings, Hands, Glasses, Punice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Gut; bench, stand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
Apprentices Wanted.
novembcr 3. * f&tutf
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillai
Drown Holhnds
White Sheetings
DowlafTes
Silesia bordered Handkereliiefj
Striped Siimoufes
l.'ljt k Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Gl*£s Tumblers, and Looking GlafTea, in
in vafea, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
tiovemkr 6. eod3w
FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellentHorfe3,
witli a Waggon and The Horfcs are all
young, strong, tfue to the draught, and eapable\
ofliauling as great a weight as moH in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears arc strong. and
in good order. Apply so ROHF.H F GREEN,
Weft Town, Cheiter counts, o-.■*:<>
, Thomas FJher,
No. 141, S. Second Street, PlviU olphfa
IT mo. ' e. ihw.
Samuel iViiers Jb illiLr,
ARF NOW OPKVINC,
At their Warehouse, 410. 17, Dock .Street, a frefti
afTortment of Woolen and other goods, fu»uble to
thei'eafon, receivca by the late arrivah from Eng
land.
Tbcv have also for Sale t
Lisbon "J
f quarter calk&*
Port Wines, 3.
AfTorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo* 23d., diwataw3w.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, «orner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Btlxi of a Bollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Container! i»» No. V and VI of
*' The History of the United State» for
the year 1796,"
In whieh the charge o» speculation againll
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
ir rlt ri n bt ulm sll r.
Tlrs publication presents a concise statement
of the hafe means prafiifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chara&ers of thofc
j>srfons\vho arc considered as hostile to their difor
■gaDizing schemes. /It also c.ntains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meftrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, on the fub
jedt of the atorefaid, and a scries oT let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, provirg beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter and hi« afi'ociates to extort money.
A difcouat of one third from the retail price
will be made yj favor of wholefate purchasers, ior
cash- Orders to beaddreffed ts Mr Youko.
AuguA %$•
D A N C I N G.
MR. iff Mrs. B T R NE,
(y{ the. New Theatre,
RESPECTFULLY inform the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia, that Mr. Byrne's
Academy will commence on the ift, and Mrs.
BYKMt's on the 2d of December next,
november a'o.
Wanted, to Hire,
\ Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the lentreof the city—for which a generous
rent will be given ; to be taken for a ytar, or on
more tor a longer terra. Inquire of the Printer.
Oi\. 17. euf
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 25,
For Amsterdam, v
The Skip
FAR M E R,
* J OUN M'Collom, M after ;
WI lit Tail in a few days, the
part of her cargo being;
ready. For freight oi fifty tons of Coffee, or pif
fage, apply to tl\e maftcr o.} board, at Walnut*
ftrcet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who it Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
Wine in quarter casks
Claret in caftft, of a superior quality
Fontiniac, ")
Sauterne, > Wiaes in cases
I-unille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 24. \. $
For Liverpool,
J—fc The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
' Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proporcion of her
£\ cargo being ready to go on
board, is expe&cd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d mbcr.
or FafTage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN b J Co.
noveniber ai. §
FOR LONDON,
THE SHIP
J|m wiLIA M PENN,
James Jos i ah, Maftcr.
THE (hip is now taking on board her cargo, and
will fail in atl next week. For freight or pafiage
apply to the captain or to
jfejfe & Robert Wain.
rov 11. §
For Liverpool,
.-»S. The Ship
CLOTHIER,
r V. Nathaniel D. Gardner, majler,
AT 7" I Ll' fail about the- I.Stn
zx' \ \ in ft. For freight or pas
sage apply to the Captain, at Vanuncm's wharf,
or to JAMES OI<DDF.N,
nov. 3. dtf No 41, N. Front-street..
:—v,
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE.
jgggyr s ukey,
William Whittin, Mailer.
ftrong velfel, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a
preat |part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Lundaiberjrtr* t X'.'lxirf
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel. of about three hundred tons.
nov 18. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THB SHIP
Sully But leu,
. Captain Ch is holm,
A new veflel, with excellent
accommf »,J a ji o i l# for puflengers—
Sail* on the 10th of December For Freight or
Pafiage, apply to \Sf SIMSON.
M r bo have to difpof *f y
A small invoice of GLAHBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. V
Lor Hamburgh.
" t~— The Brig MARY,
Pettv Yo»k, nial\er,
L Lying at Ruffcl's near Pine
) fVjfriyMj- ftrett, n now ready to take_in a
■£-* Cargo, and will fail in ttu days.
For Freight, or Puffage, apply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
November 16.
ft—
For Sale c.Y Charter,
Sjjjjk, GOOD HOPE,
'WjHap'J Will carry about 1100 barrels, and
fjr. is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to \
Pragers f Co.
No. 151, .South Secand-ftreet.
Who have forfait —prime St. Croit i'Ugar and
Rum, Madeira, Lisbon, and Tcneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
Cj&i Wanted to Charter,
To one port in Hifpaniola and back
ffiPliajyA faft failiftg Veffcl, of the bur
then of 6 or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to
Benjamin Morgan, No. i:*, South Front ftrjet,
or to ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
November 10. §
For Charter,
THE SHIP
John Bulkley,
Samuel Volaris, Majler.
pHIS velTol is built of live oak
» JL i*nd cedar, of about 30c o
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
yejfe Robert Wain.
oa. 31. ' $_
For Sale or Charter,
«Gg2Skr*"" Tfre fatt failing bng .
JM : Brothers,
Lying at Gurlmg's wharf,
an excellent tingle deck'd veflel, burthen a"Kbut
1600. barrels —rot twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the majler
on board, or to
yofepb Anthany & Go.
Nov. . <liw-
By John Fenno,
Philip Nicklin SS° Co.
lIAVR fOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut fireet Wharf,
■ Havannuh Sugars, white and brown
I 25 hhds Jamaica do.
30C0 pieces of'broad Nankeens
Imperial lea.in quar^r^nd,cightSfcof cfiefli
QuicKfilv- r in- tubs I , , »
Madeira V/me in pis e> and
1 CUeriffc; Wine in pipe-
Old led Port Wine in htigibcads
Sail Canvass, afTorted, No. 1 to 8
8 cafe* of Mancheftcr Goods, confiding of Dimities,
Muflinets,Ginghams,Thickl'etts, Corduroys, &c.
. 200 crates Queens' Ware, afforced
Nails, afTorted
Bla-k quart Bottles
YeUow Ocre in caiks
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter casks Gun Powder
7htf\ Lave alfufor SALF or CPARTER,
HAMBURG PACKET,
Burthen 32.0 tons, coppered to
vuA the bends, and completely fitted.
TheJhtp MOLLY, burthen 340 ton 6, a
good. vetfVl, arid completely fitted.
The.brig AMAZQN> bnrthen i3oobar»
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
Ihe whole of the vcflels to be fcen at
.Walnut fireet Wharf. §# nov ic.
Rundle b 5 Leech,
Have juil received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut ftrect,
Liverpool and Sl Übes SALT
Do. heft house CO A L'S
Queens' WARE in cases, aflbrtcd
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
\ T) o. CI,ARE I'in ca(cs, do.
THFY ' AV F ALSO
or or charter,
TWE SUIP
PEGGY,
Burthen 225 tons, in excellent bondition, and
may be f(?n(Ko sea with little expence or delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILLIAM/
Burthen 201 tons,
november 16. §
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By ship Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, freai Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglheads,
For fate by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
The Ship
,a M n r ,
Four thousand barrels burthen,
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
tIKEWISK,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Jufl landed from the above vessels at South street
wharf. eoim. Nov. I.
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very firft quality! in pipes, hhd*. and
quarter ealk*, just landed from the (hip Edward,
from Madeira, and for sale by
JOHN CRAIG,
No. ii, Dock-llreet.'
W.HO HAS FOR CHARTER,
CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about noo barrels,
JjK. j u (i hove down and put in com
plete order, and now ready to tecrive a cargo. .
Also, ftr SALE or CHARTER,
J ° s CP H U S,
Burthen about 1800 barrels.
pevember 6.
James *3 Richard Smith,
TAKE the liber'y of informing their friends
and the public, th«t they have remrved their
llore to No. 54, South Front Jlrttt. next d.or to Ed-'
ward Fox's Auiticn Roam, where they hate at
this time for sale, a large' and general assortment of
■ European isf Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
Oft. 27. ft
Samuel Pleafants is.f Sons,
No. 74, South Sccond-Jlreet,
HAVE received a supply of Seafonable<>OODS,
which they are now opening for la\e, on
reasonable terms. o<st 27. —4 W
~YosS Ssf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COT TON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and'boxes
Jamaica, "J
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, rnd
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
oa. it. §
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawlev, Matter,
80 hhds. and / J ama i ca RUM,
12 pipes ) J 7
FOR SALK BV
George Latimer Iff Son.
uovemhrr 9.
400,000 "weight of choice &t. Dor
mingo COtFEE,
FOR SALE BV
JAMES YARri:
roverrber 22. djc-t
AH Persons ,who are indebted to
the efiate of William Hkvsham, fen. o! Phila
delphia, deceased, are re<;ucfted to make speedy
payment; and thole who have any demands a
gainst said efiate, will please to present them, pro
perly attested, to the lubferibers.
William Heyfham,
Robert Heyfbam. . r Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayre, J
nwember 6. 2aw4W
N 0 119 Chefnut Street
SALT &
AT AUCTION.
For sale a u o'clock, on Saturday morning next,
on "Morten's wharf, for approved indorsed
at 60 days, about .>,500 bufbells Cadiz Salt, from
on hoard the Polacre St. Domingo, in lots of
bufctfls ; • alio, 24 calks of good bherry Wine.
ls/oiman Cs° Co. Auctioneers.
nov 2
Sals of an elegant Country Seat
/ A T A UC T I O N.
On Wednesday evening next, the 29th inft. at
the Merchant*' Coffee-houfe,
WILL BE SOLD,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing <x acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
{lory hriclc Hpufe thereon, an appls
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish tra«sl lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfiug, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be nude known upon application at the oilice of
the Philadelphia Gazette, or at the Audion Room
of the fubferiber.
The improvements upon this place, tafte and
el- gance, Hand unrivalled. *
John Connelly, Auft'r.
November 23. 4 dts
SALES POSTPONED;
On account of the Weather.
On Friday the 24th inft prccifely at 9 o'clock in
the morning, will Ue fold at C Emlen's Lumber
Yard in the Northern Liberties, near the Hay fcaies,
all the perf«nal propeity there remaining, beloijg
iitjr to the eftatc of Caleb Emlen, deceafed—con
fiding of a largi' quantity of lumber, &c.
' FOO l MAN 15* Co. Auctioneers.
nov 2 2
N O i 1 C t.
To holders of J A MER GREEN LEAF'S
and ED It' ARD FOX's Engagements
IN co«fequ<nce of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to ilTue the lame to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd aa re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for thei' payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS VV. FRANCI, 3
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
nt-vembtf, 13. tuthScfiua.
NOTICE.
THE Stockholders of the Bant of the United
States, are informed that according to the
Aatute of Incorporation a general Election for
twenty five Dirtdlors will be held -at the Bank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firfl day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
And purluant to the Eleventh feiftion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Ban*
arc hereby notified to afTemble ia general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the fecood
day of January next at tive o'clock in (he E
vening.
By order of the Board of directors,
G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne Dirtflors
in office, exclusive of the President, fliall be e
lsgjble for the next fuiveeding year, but the
Diredlorwho fnall be President at the time of an
feledlion may alwayibe re-eltiffed.
Philadelphia, nov. 18.J797. ftE
TO~LE7
At a reasonable Rent,
And may be entered on immediately»
A tbree-flory brick House, (elegant ana almost
new) containing two parlour?, a drav/ing room,
three good chambers, &c. situated on Front, near
Pine street.
Apply no. 1 to, Soutb Front street.
November ax. ' 3t
FOR SALE—by the Subscr'Bers,
An elegant assortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by she balj,
WILLINGS isf FRANCIS,
nov. 21. § Penn-ftrcef.
Yellow Fever and Peitilential
Diseases.
. THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol. oA*vo.
By William Young, Boolftller y
No. 32, Second street, tlr corner of Chefnut llreet,
(Price, in Lourtjt 8 7 I 2 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science as Life ;
On the principles edahliftied in tl>s elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempf'to correfl (Time important er
rors o#that woi k, and cfafes in illuflration, chief
ly felefled from the records of their praiflice,at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Bf William Tate» & Chas. Mkcleak.
To which is fubj.ined, a Treatise on the a&ion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of dilt ales of indirefl debility
Andadiflertation onthe fotirces of Epidemicand.
Peftilentialdifeafes; in whichisattempted toprove
by a numerous induiflion of faiJls, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain dates, or certain viciflitudes of
the atmufphei*:, by Charlss Maclean, of
CalcutM.
Nov. at. $Ht
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the Qity.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114. corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
I 9A. i-' —dtf
To b<L Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
wU watered, in a he.lihy fituatiou, about
seven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made so accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and polfeflion had in a few weeks.
Part .f the being paid, a reason
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the frintsr.
November 3 mwftf
oj" St. Andrews' Society.
f HF Members of it. Andrews' Society, will
X pleafa to take notice, that as their Aonivcr
laiy happens this year vn a Fail Day, to be
cd by an order of the Synod of Philadelphia, to
which community many of th« members belong ;
it a therefore judgfcd proper to defer the Celebra
tion thereof, until Friday, the firtt of December,
at O'Ellersi* Hotel,
TJic-members are requeued to apply for tickets
of admidion to any cf the ufliftants, viz. Messrs.
1 homis Leiper, Gavin Hamilton, jun. James Hen
deifon, Kobert Henderfon, Willi.nn H. l'od.Efq.
or] Dr. Andrew Sp»nce.
1 he officers are delired to attend at ooe o'clack;
dinner to be on the table at three.
By order of the Board,
RICHARD L KE, Secretary,
novembera*. dtiD
NOW LANDING,
At Suutfr-ftreet Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concordj
Capta-.n Thompson, from Bitavia.
About 300 tons firft quali y Java Coffee (the
\v4iolc having been felt fled)
8o tons Java Sugar, in caniflers and hags
IO legurrs of old Arrack
Nutmogs, Mace and Cloves
FOR SALi BY
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from ship Amiry, from Jamaica.
20?' hltds Jamaica .Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
noyemher 23.
FOR SALE, bt
joseph Anthony ?s° Co.
No. 5, C'hcfnut Street,
A cargo of choiie Bourdeaux Brandy, id and ad
proof, ju(l landed
250 bales of Bourbon cotton-os a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantify of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica Ipiriti
Old London particular Madeira wine In pip«s &
do. market do f qr. c.fks.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in c»frs
Spermaceti candles andftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef '
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels-
Do. Herring in do do
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : »«n
A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Ruflia feather beds
Clover and Timothy feed in lalks
Long whale-bone
No. 1, 2, and 3, Boston fail duek
A few cherts firtt quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hpllow glass ware.
N vember 8. diw.
FOR SALE,
»T THE subscßHEJi, No. 21, Penn-flree^
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conjijiing of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs ®uzz~y do.
Humhums Charconna-Dore*
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagnnges Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bandannots
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcocs 'Choppa Romals
SaVatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various eotoan
Mock Pulicats
200 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings Is* Francis.
, The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are row open and cxpofed to file £ I
that conimr.dious llore the north well corner of
Market and Fourth street. Nov. to;
~j i. AMDI NG, ~
From on board theftip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from London,
60 toßs of the best clean Ruflia
HRMP
60 casks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. 21, Fenn-ftreet.
Willings ts 3 Francis.
Qfl-ai- d
Just arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the fubfcl*
be'rs, No. si, Penn-ftreet,
6 • j hogfheadi,"")
iSSS > Prime Coffee
646 bugs j
Willings Iff Francis.
Ofl. 2fr.
Now Landing,
'And For Sale by the Subscribers,
30 hhds. BRANDY
*«=»
7 hhds. Carolina TOBa'cCO
Philips , Cramond) & Co.
nomcmetr 18.
Landing,
From on board the ship Edward, at Walnuk
ftreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine^
of a fupenor quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
' ) Robert Andrews.
noTemher 5. eotf
JuJl Pull'tjhed, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
At his Roqk-Storf, No 68, Hijrh-Street^
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUA L REG IS TERfir tic UNITED STATES
FOR THE YEAR* i 7QB I
Contaruinp complete and corrcA lifts of the Execu
tive, I eg illative and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVEKNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful table.?, neceflTary to be
known in every State of the Union.
Embtllijhed with tivo bandfortu Engravings,
One of which is depi<3ivc of a mdancholy fcenc
that occurred during tlia American war. >
Ofl. 18.
[Vol UJUS XII%i)t (gazette.
PHILADELPHIA, !*£
SXTT'RDAY EVENING,* NOVEMBER 15. ' turit
foun
SUBSCRIPTIONS. you ,
—" _ menl
Amount of subscriptions receiv- thcit
ed, for the use of the Sick difp<
Poor of the City and Liber- Shal
ties of Philadelphia, continu- not I
ed from the 2nd of November Dlls. Cts. port
1797 * 9 1 who
Received since, and
Of John Rediger his fubfeription 3 o vial
Of Matthew Clarkfon, late May- cha:
'or of Philadelphia 35 0 the)
OfHuy Cr.Vanvagenenof New- hoo
ton Long I(land, his Ditto f om
by Hilary Baker the present will
Mayor 5° 0 gon
Of Thomas Leacock by Tho- }
mas Parker 333 Enj
• Of Joseph Haberfham Esq. re- tab]
unitted him from Portsmouth ter
Ncw-Hampfhite, viz. Iqft;
ThefuWcriptionsof fun- dan
dry inhabitants there 220 o win
Ditto of a small religi- gar
ous focietycalled In-- of
dependents, of the anc
fame City 44 2 5 rat
Ditto the donation of Lo
the south Parish of Sw
Portsmouth 5° 0 p°'
314 25 f or
Tatal received from the 24th of II illi;
August to the 23d of No- ' zo:
vember 1797, is 349 2 49 "
Publifhcd by order of the Committee. Ai
SAMUEL COATES, 7J\sasvkbk. 17
ou
For th GAZETTE #/ tie UNITED STATES, bd
M*. ri»s»,
Seeing in your paper of F.riday lad, an thi
extraA from the Columbian Centinel, con- an
taining ftri&ures on a sermon preached by l* l
the Bishop of Norwich at the church of ra <
Saint Mary le Bow in Loudon, on (lie 17th ur
February lad, before the foeiety for propa- gr
gating the golpel in foreign parts 5 and con- of
ceiving that the author (who signs himfelf gr
"an American") has fallen full as short in po
candour, evinced as much partiality, and nu
deviated as widely from rectitude as the , no
English bifhwp, I, as an Englifhraan think | cu
myfelf entitled to animadveit upon him hi
with the mod unreserved freedom, not with j be
pevfonal inveftire, nor with any intention to , fel
undervalue the state of this country, but to of
pt event any one from Jlrutting in borrowed ln
plumes, and afluming that as exclusively their ed
own, which more rightfully belongs to a- an
nother. |
The love of our country as well as the
love of ourselves individually, is not only al- g 1
lowed as a privilege, but enforced as a du- I ''
ty, while it exceeds not those boundaries b<
which the general consent and welfare of "1
mankind have established : but nations en- t0
croaching on the rights and reputation of P<
nations, are as criminal as individuals de
fnmding caoh other ; and it is necefiary for w
" the preifervation of moral juftiee in the world | u
that every such attempt be checked before j ™
it has time to operate. *
To open the avenues and facilitate the j 11
progress of knowledge, to promote the dif- c
covery and display the beauties of truth, to w
dissipate the fogs of prejudice and obftruft nr
the progress of error, ought to be the chief ll
objea of him who fuffers his fentimepts to ci
appear before the public : but I fear these »
purposes have been but little attended to by «
the American.
That " we have led the Americans from "
the lowed date of barbarity, from the dark- P
ed dages of ignorance, to the highest flages «
of civilization and mental improvements, n
is certainly a very unwarrantable assertion of "
the bishop's ; but the attempt to controvert "
one falfe position by setting up another e- t
qually unfounded, is a mode not the mod n
likely to produce convidtion. I can by no 11
means acquiesce in opinion with him who "
asserts—" when in the early date of this d
country, we produced a Locke, a Newton,
a Pope and others of great reputation in the t
literary world, there never was a day from a
the fird emigration to" this country from "
Europe, that the body v>f the pepple oti our •'
ifiand possessed more light and information
in proportion to their numbers than the 11
people of these states colleftively. " A pro- ji
portionate number of the people of this <■
' country have never had the fame leisure and '
opportunity to make equal advances ; their t
time has been too busily emp.oyed 1
lifhing and fecuriiig thetnfelves in their pof- >
sessions, and in the pursuits of trade and ag- ;
riculture to pay a proportioned degree of t
attention to science and literature ; and even 1
now it is by no means a principal concern 1
among you; few are able to boad of a regu
lar academical education—the soldier thinks j
it not very eflential—the wealthy farmer "
can bring up his son« to the plough with- <
without it, and your merchants are perfeft
ly fatitßed if their children are qualified for '
a counting-house ; they think time spent in
the acquisition of farther knowledge as lod '
to trade and therefore ill employed. Where
as in England, not only the children of a ve- >
yy numerous nobility, and ft ill more nume
rous country gentlemen, but even of many
merchants are allowed fufficient time to com
pleat their collegiate studies, besides a vad
number more of whom it may be said learn
ing is their trade, who are brought up to no
other profeffion, and who depend solely up- 1
on their genius and their learning. There
are also more advantages arising from the
many large depositaries of antient wisdom ;
there are dronger inducements from fame,
and better profpe&s of reward ; for not
•withftanding what some (hallow hot brained
demagogues may fay of an English aridoc
racy, it may be judly affirmed, that they
have ever been proud to be the patrons of
genius, the promoters of science, the sup
porters of every mental exertion, and among
whom may be found many names who rank
. " S
foremoft in every walk of litetJ«ture« But , won:
in what part of this country (hall we look it is
j for the Jsatrons of genius, who bring for- notii
i ward humble merit, cherish the infant blof- vav\
j foms of tade, and p*»duce the fruit of rna-
'turity? I know not where they are to be mak
found ; those charafters who have adorned , let 1
you, are not indebted for much encourage- j iag
ment—they forced their way to eminence bv . iim't
their own native drength. Where is the irvor
disposition to promote arts and fcisnCes \ mea
Shall we seek it among those who know oier
not their value, who deem nothing of iat- but
*• portance but the pursuit of gain, and before the
whom the sublimed flights of imagination ipe;
and the nobled labours of intellect are tri- tha
5 vial matters compared with the news upon aflr
change. The Americans are yet too young, not
3 they are dill " but in the gridle of man- gee
hood," and till they shall have acquired exa
some dronger marks of national charadfer, it of
will be >6iiito e*pe£l many indances of vi- pai
3 gorous genius, or delicate refinement, am
His account of the state of literature in ch;
3 England at the time'when colonies were ef- th;
tablifhed here, is as erroneous as his charac- aw
ter of the fird settlers is exaggerated. Scho- cu
ladic jaigon and the perplexing rules of pe- raj
dantry in which learning was enveloped in
when it fird feebly dawned in Europe, be- to
gan gradually to be disused from the days co
of Roger Bacon in the v thirteenth century, C(
and continued wearing away with aecele- so]
rated rapidity as it approached the time of de
Locke, Newton, Boyle, Addifon, Pope, of
Swift, &c. See. when learning having over- na
powered the clouds that obfeured it, shone ga
■5 forth in meridian fpkndour ; when so many bi
illustrious names adorned the literary hori- pr
zon, that it has been emphatically styled the in
1-9 " Augudan age of England" : yet faysthe B
American, "it was not till about the year Si
mh. 1720 that a laudable liberality prevailed in Si
our country, and only from then have we b<
'ES. been cenfidered as an enlightened people." la
With refpeft to those who fird pvojedled rc
an the forcing of settlements in this country, Mn
:on- and who obtained patents, and grants of it
by land, it mud be acknowledged " they were o
1 of men of learning and philosophy, and were b
7th urged by a aoble fpiritof enterpnfe, to effe& t
>pa- great and marvellous deeds But very few tl
: on- of those ever left England ; the real cmi- a
ifelf grants were principally compofcd of the fl
t in poor and the illiterate ; and a considerable g
and number of that puritannical race, who were 1;
the | not fuffered to propagate at home those pe- y
link I culiar religious tenets of which they were so n
him 1 bigottedly tenacious, and who, when they ii
vith became fufficiently powerful, proved them- j;
mto selves the furious and intolerant persecutors b
it to of others. These were they " whose learn- <]
>wed ' n g wa * nothing but fcholaitic duff, arrang- f
heir ed and improved to the firpport of bigotry I
o a . and fuperdition, in strong derogation'of phi- c
lofophy, and found reasoning." c
the It cannot be denied that this fydem has t
y al- given place lo more enlightened views, and 1
du- that a more general liberality of sentiment is j
aries becoming prevalent: but you began too late, r
eo f upon too confined a scale, and have met with i
1 en _ too many obftruftions, to have made a pro
n of portionate progress with the Englifli. Some
de- ' ew names, indeed, you have produced, of
f for whom you can never be blamed for thinking
,orld to ° highly, of whom, with a small number
efore more felefted from the ages that are pad,
j this worltU may exultingly cry among her
. the sister orbs, they were my inhabitants ! But I
. dif- ' cannot admit that the generality of those
h, to ' whom you hold up, are such as could claim
Iruft much attention in the world of literature ;
chief are certainly distinguished here, on ac
its to count of the paucity of eminent proficients, i
these *°d of that prudential principle which al
to by ways tries to make the mod of a moderate
stock. But where few think it neceflary to
from devote their lives to study, still fewer can
Hark- possibly approach perfedtion ; where great
lages learning is not often attained, acquisitions
ntS) >» not above mediocrity may be thought pro
on of found. When stillness prevails, fmallfoynds
overt may be heard didindHy at a didance,-and
ler e- twilight may seem like radiance to those who
mo st have been in darkness. Who has druek out
y no new and untrodden paths of knowledge? and
w ho who has raised a fuperftrudlure whose foun
this dation was not laid in England ?
wton. I would not be underltood to insinuate
n t he that you have nothing of your own, or that
from all you pofTefs is immediately derived from
from us * The world contains iiotaanother IVath
rf'our ington ! a man whose every virtue is imme
ation diately recognized in Europe, by the mere
1 the mention of his name, and whose charadler,
pro . no man, till he came to this country, could ,
• this believe that calumny would dare to point her
e and (hafts at. But, that " a prophet has not
their *h e honor he deserves, in his native land,"
eftab- is in no P irt °{ tlie g^ obe m 9 re strikingly
r pof- verified than here. You have those serpents
1( 1 a g. amongst you, who would ungratefully ding
cr 0 f their laviours ; who have heaped epithets of
1 even reproach on those whose services might com
mcern mand the highed honors ; who have, by
regu- broken quotations, and didorud inferences,
hjnks from his work, basely accused Him, of hold
armer ing principles holUle to your mod excellent
with- conditution, who of all others, has most a
•rfedt- bly defended it ; in whose work, as the A
ed for merican justly fays "are compleatly in
ent in vedigated all the forms and principles of all
is 101 l the governments which have . been in the
fhere- world.", A book in which is discovered
save- the most laborious research; in which the
nurae- comparisons arc mod impartially drawn ;
many which displays such an extent of erudition, j
> com- as is ftldom concentrated in one mind, how- ;
a vafl ever diligent and, retentive, and which is-the
learn- only one°l know of, of which it may be tru
to no ly said, that, from theferiousjludy of it atone, i
ly U n. the mind may be informed with compleat and
There accurate principles of the feience of civil govern
m the ment. I have ventured to speak my opinion j
fdom ; on this fubjeft, without presuming that I
fame, can give any addition to its celebrity. The ,
, r not - broad effulgence of day is not tobe augmen-' j
rained ted by the glimmering of a taper. _ Yet
ridoc- this work, which is in so many Americans' ;
t they mouths, either to criticise or condemn, how j
>ns of very few have done its author the judice, or j
ie sup- thetnfelves the service, to give it a candid _
imong and attentive perusal.
0 rank All that Americans can juftlj claim, none j
t would more willingly allotv than myfeif, but seven
: it is against your interell to entertain falfe in th
- notions of yourselves, and to admit an o- and
- verweening pride, which will efTe&iMllv re- fione
- the projrefs it oftentatiou!ly affects to T
e maks;: if youpofTefsfomeillultiious examples, preft
d 1 let not the effect be exaggerated by boall- lefti
■- j iag ; but rather a llimulus to more frequent exec
y ; imitation, to more ardent, more libera!, ar;d the
ie more general endeavours to promote every Arn
J means that caivcontribute to the f iicourage- 1
w rnent of genius and the exaltation of virtue : wit!
1- but let not an American prefunu- to rejprrfs spec
re the arrogance of Englilhmen, till he can ell;
»n speak of his country in other language than mai
i- that of hyperbole ; for what else is jt, to ; I
>n affirm in the face of Europe', "Do you tain
g, not kuow thaLthsarlilUava been eneouri- j Art
n- ged in America, and as many extraordinary >of
td examples of geniua'fcwmd here as in any part j mot
it of the earth ? Where did the principal | whi
tfi- painters now in Europe receive their birth of t
and education ?" Are not the ufeful and me- live
in chanic arts deprefs'd as much as possible by the
ef- that commercial spirit which predominates acc
ie- a»d pervades all ranks of people, whose pe
-1- culiar and immediate intereit it is-to difcou- J anc
je- rage cviry attempt towards improvements j
led in manufa£tories, who have not mind enough I
t>e- to relish the elegant arts, and to whom a j e
tys coarser luxury is much more palatable. j
ry, Concerning natural and experimental philo- J
rle- sophy, none can fay you have not made con-1
of derable advances when they read the names I 3d
pe, of Godfrey, Frankjin and Rittenhoufe. In I thi
'er- naval architecture also, and in fkilful navi-1 thi
jne gators you need not yield the palm to any ; of
my but where throughout the continent can you bu
jri- producf classic tafteand knowledge in build- br;
the ing, except that single specimen, the new j no
the Bank of the United States ? where are your Jco
ear Sculptors, your Painters, your Engravers ? I dil
lin Some few firft rate painters were indeed Ihe
we born here, but they were educated in Eng- I at
e." land where they couldfludy the beil matters, j R
:ted receive the best inftruttion and meet with Jt«
try, more encouragerherit. I (hould not have jca
of mentioned these things had not there been Ibe
rere one weak enough to make such ridiculous |to
.-ere boalliugs, and perhaps many not unwilling Ith
feet to bilieve them. Who has ever expedted los
few that you (hould have much encouraged arts jar
:mi- and sciences, or that they should have much jol
the flottrifhed among you hitherto ? A high de- Ipi
able gree of perfe&ion in tilings is amongst the I w
rere last effefts of national opulence and power .I d<
pe- yet it is not too soon to have made a begin- Itl
efo ning, and to have shewn a stronger difpo-1 hi
hey fition than has hitherto appeared. The real 1 (I
em- grandeur of a nation is only to be eflimated 1h;
tors by the number of illustrious names it can I p
arn- deliver tn pollerity, and these are not to be Ici
ing- found amongst speculators and party fcrib- I o
otry biers, but only in the lift of those who have I h
phi- contributed to embellish and harmonize so- I I
ciety, whose labours have extended beyond I a
has themselves to the general benefit of man- Iti
and kind, whose excellent precepts and exem- I w
at is plary conduft has shewn to what degree of g
late, refinement and exaltatiou the humau mind d
with is capable of arriving. 1 f
pro- An ENGLISHMAN. b
ome ————————l 1
•" f FOREKJN INTELLIGENCE. b
e
nber LONDON,.September 22. 1
past, Frcmoun CORRESPONDENT at LISLE. t
her The following is said to be the Ultimatum *
itit I delivered by the French Comiflioner t
:hofe Treilhard to Lord Malmefbury, c
:laim The French Republic, ever desirous and e
ure ; willing to conclude a Peace with its Enemies t
n ac- and that all Europe may .judge of its Unceri
ents, ty, juflice, and moderation, ,has diredted M. I
1 al- Treilhard to deliver in the following Ulti
crate matnni of the terms of Peace between Great t
ry to Britain and France. a
can That Great Britain do restore to France c
jreat all the Conquests she has made during the I
tions prtfent war, and refund ail the expences of
pro- the French Republic in carrying it on. t
iunds That Spain and Holland, the Allies of >
■ and the French Republic, be reinltated in all
who their pofTeflions taken from theui by En-
It out gland.
? and England to restore to France all the ships
foun- taken from her on the tft of June, ai well I
as at Toulon; and such as were burnt to i
luate be paid for.
that Gibraltar to be restored to Spain, agree- i
from able to a secret article in her Treaty with 1
Vafli- that nation.
lime- AH the ships. of War, Merchantmen, &c.
mere belonging to the Batavian Republic, de- I
ifter, tained in the ports of Great Britain, to be I
:ould .restored or compensation made. ]
ither The Tree of Liberty to be planted in I
1 not Ireland. <
ind," The King of England to discontinue the <
ingly Title of the King of France. 1
pents England toi change name of that Diftridl ;
fling in Westminster called Petty France, the I 1
eta of Republic having done so by that province 1
com- formerly called Britanny. - 11
by The Alien bill to be repealed.l French I ]
:nces, Citizens to be allowed to meet in London,
hold- or in any other part of Great Britain to dif- '
ellent cuss political or other fubjedts. > No inter- ]
oft a- rupticn to be given on account of any num- I
be A- ber of persons aflipTibled, whether French
y. in- Citizens or others.
Df all Fre« liberty to be given to French Citi- '
n the zens to write and publish their fentimentr 1 '
ivered j"n any language.
1 the The National Cockade of France to be h
awn ; worn by French Citizens ; and they are to I 1
iiu'on, ,be permitted to celebrate the feftivals of I
how- ; the 14th of July, 1789 ; 10th of August, |
is-the ' 1792 ; ?iftof January, 1793 ; and 4th of
e September
alone, \ The Miniftir fcStf'French Republic.to
it and have the precedence of all the Foreign En
ivern- voys.
>inion | Audience of the King or any of hij Mi
tat I nifters, to be granted on the day that the
The , Minister of the Republic shall appoint.
rmen- 1 j The French Minister shall have a right to
Yet demand, whether afly Communications made
icans' , from Foreign powers to Great-Britain are
, how J boltile to the Republic,
ce, or Great Britain is not to continue in any
:andid ' alliance, or form any other, that may be
| holtile to France or her Allies.
, none j France to havs choice of live out of the
: seven Painting!!, called called Cartoon!) in 1 feniin
: in the poffefl'lon of the King of England, I us th<
- . and roo others, to be feledted by Commif- fenta'
- fioners of the Republic. ap t ;'o
a The French Republic, in return, will be pi
, preferit to the English nation a superb col
- leftion of the mod magnificent Paintings,
t executed by the full Artists in France, of G
d the [plendid Vidtories obtained by the J4 vvhic
y Armies of the French Republic. tors,
The Bank of England to furnifh Franee done
: with a Loan of SCO millions of livreS, in cons
fa specie, to be repaid in 15 years, with inter- who
n ell; to be secured oii the National Do- eons
in mains. cree
:o ■: Asa fccurity on the part of Great-Bri- man
>u tain, for the performance of the foregoing moil
i- j Articles, France is to be put in poflcfflffn flill
-y |of the Fortrfcfles at Portfmoutlif and Ply- ry.
rt j mouth, with the Dockyards, Arlenal, &c. tenc
1a) j which (hall be returned upon the ratification the
tli jof the Peace, in the fame ftatc as when de- p-:r1
le- livered to the French Commifiioners; but the
by the Republic will not be answerable for the font
:es accident of Fire, orotherwife. thef
>e- Fifth year of the French Republic one ligh
>u-[ and indivilible. (Signed) no 1
its! La Reveill\f.re Lepaux, President. lifhi
\gh j Lagrade, Secretary. evei
a j , 28th Frußidor. foci
- I tior
lo- j PARIS, September 17. tior
>n- j Between 10 and tl in the night from the Mo
nes 13d to the 4th September, a band of cut- Ber
In I throats attempted to surprise the guard of fioti
ivi-1 the diredtory, and make themselves matters of t
y;j of the directorial palace, by a coup de main, larj
r OU I but the fentinelswere upon their guard,and tifi
Id- I bravely defended the entrance; upon the firft was
ew noise, the horse guard rushed out of the lica
jur j court of the palaee, and pursued the ban- Soi
rs ? ditti who had betaken themselves to their wil
eed heels, and dispersed in the different streets pul
ng- lat the approach of the cavalry. Barras,'
ers, j Reubel and Reveillere Lepaux "afTcmbled af
•ith I terwards- to deliberate on the measures belt W
ave I calculated to prevent a new, and perhaps is 1
em I better combined attack. The deliberation
ous j took place in Retibel's Closet, and there Qv
ling I the order to arreil the infpedtbrs of the hall wli
;ted los both councils was expedited. An officer wh
arts I among those charged to execute the order, rit
uch I observed, that he knew the infpedtors to be
de-J prepared for such an attempt, and aflted,, TV
the I whether it would not be more advisable to
rer . I delay the arreftations of the conspirators to
gin- I the »ext day? Upon this, Reubel addrefled t fl
fpo- his colleagues aud said : " You may tarry the
real I still longer : as for me, lam unwilling to un
ated I hazard my life and the liberty of the Re- cv
can I public any longer. If you refufe to pro-
obe I ceed immediately to the neceflary measures ho
rrib- los fafety ; lam determined to mount my
have I horse and leave the theatre of civil war." ef|
; so- I Barras and Reveillerc applauded, and it was of
rond agreed that, that very night, the confpira
nan- tors (hould be attacked. They commenced
;em- I with arresting Barthelemy. The adjutant '
eof I general, who was ordered to arrest Carnot, f u
nind did not find him in his room, but Camot t e
I ex-member of the legislative afTembly, told re
>J. I him that his brother was in the upper (lory. »n
The Adjutant went immediately up flairs at
'JT [ but could not find him. When he return-
ed to the lower room he found nobody in it;
I the windows of the closet which opens upon
the Diredtorial palace, were open ; there ui
itum I was a brace of piltols and a light upon the th
ioner table. The twoCarnots, one of whom was it,
concealed in the room when the Adjutant
and enquired after him, had meanwhile made r
:mi?s their escape through the garden.
iceri- Sept. 23. T v
1 M. I Refolulion dated 2nd Vendtma'tre. th
Ulti- I " The Executive Diredtory resolves that ft
Jreat I the General of Division, Angereau, is
appointed Commander in Chief of thearmies
•aace of the Rhine and Moselle, and Sambre and
r the Meufe. , T
es of " The Minister of war is charged with r <
the execution of the prefeat Resolution,
es of which shall be printed. 01
1 all (Signed)
En- " REVELLIERE LEPEAUX, Pres. 11
" LEGARDE, Sec. Gen."
ships ft
well I General Sahuguet, commandant at Mar- iS
ut to | feilles, has been. dilmifTed by the Directory. ,v
Letters from the Lower Rhine, fay the "
grce- fame papers, state that the town of Rhein- c<
with hach had declared in favor of independence.
The Tree of Liberty was planted on the
, See. sth of Sept. in presence of forty deputies w
, de- from the other communes in the neighbor- ff
to be hood, who declared in favor of the fame in
principles.
td in We can venture to assert, without fearing ( .
I that the enemy will profit by the iuformati
le the on, that Buonaparte has caused the lmpe-
rial troops beyond Udina to be surrounded,
ftridt and that within ten days at fartheft he will v
, the be at the gates of Vienna, if the most hon- ft
vince orable and fatisfadtory peace as well for us 11
as the Italians, is not agreed to by his Im-
-ench perial Majesty. Cl
idon, In the fitting of the council of 506 of j
odif- tbe sth Complementary day, 21ft Sept. the u
inter- president addrefTed the council. e
num- He began with the epoch of the 10th of
rench August, when the Convention decreed the f
Republic, he pronounced an eulogium on *
Citi- the constitution, the happy diftributien of Q
nents the powers of which secured its permanence.
He then came to the ißih Frudlidor. Dif-.
0 be | affedtion began to agitate, and railed a ct"y ii
ire to I that the Constitution was violated.
alsofl "The eveat of the xßth Frudlidor, far
igutl, from being a revolutionary day, was an adl
.th of performed for the preservation of the confti- ,
tution. There wasnot adrop of blood shed: ,
ilic.to No, the constitution was not violated. It f
1 En- | will not be violated, and if we (hew the c
people the deposit hi all its perfedtion, when
i Mi- we are ready to die in its defence, we shall- |
t the have defcrved well of our country. There a
is a report which malignity labours to pro-. t
;ht to pagate,' that the Legislative body is about r
made to adjourn. <
in are " Who is the man, who in the circifm- 1
fiances in which we are placed, could eil
n any tertain the idea of suspending our labours ?
ly be It is the moment in which we ought to pro
secute them with more aftitivity than ever. ,
of the It is when a Republican majority agree in
fcnifment tfcat good liwj can be ml;. Let
us then continue our labours. Tu#ispre- IH
feiitative? of the people will chang; at the
appointed eras, but the representation (hall
be permanent." I
Sept. 18.
REVIVAL OF THE CLCBS,
Garat, in the Confervatcr, a journal of
which he, Chenier and Dannou are the edi
tors, aocufes the legislative body of having |
done ton much and too little to crush the royal f
conspiracy : too much, because some men,
who do not properly belong to the class of
conspirators, have besn included io the de
cree of transportation. Too little, because /»
many who were known to b& chiefs, aa the
mort aftive promoters of the conspiracy are
still fuffered to Affile the Republican territe- I
ry. It is certain that the ftorrr. his not ex
tended beyond the horizon of Paris ; and
the traitors dispersed like weeds over the de
partments, and the royal clubs, particularly
the society of philanthropes and legitimate
sons have ofcaped unhurt. To counteraft ' <
these numerous royal clubs, who (hun the
light and deliberate in secrecy, there can be
no measure more effe£hial than the re-eftab- (
lilhment of the coiiftitutiooal societies in
every part of the Republic. The dire&ing l
society of the capital, called the constitu
tional circle, Celebrated solemnly its feftora
tion on Saturday, in the garden of the Hotel
Montmorency,which the society has rented.
Benjamin Couftantpronounced on that ocea
fion, a fpeach well adapted to the solemnity
of th« day. In the evening the front of the
large building towards the Seine, wa» beau
tifully illuminated. The day. of refloration
was likewise celebrated by the other Repub
lican societies of the capital, at Versailles, <
I Soil Tons, Meaux, Rouen, Bcc. and the fame
will be done in every commune of the Re
public.
Boifsy d'Anglaj,who had concealed him
felf tince the 4th inft. has Leen detedted, and
is now or his way to Roehefort.
The a&refi Rancour eommonly called
Queen Rancour, has been arretted with her
whole suite, and the theatre of Louvoi*
■ where (he used to exercise her royal autho
, rity is now (hut.
. September 17.
The following is an extraft of a letter written
by the Executive Direilory, to each
seven minifteis.
' " The Executive Direflory, citizen
1 tei, charges you to render an exafl account of
r the -.morality and civifm of all those employed
> under, you, to expel with inflexible fe»erity,
every one who in this twofold view, cannot
sustain a rigorous examination, and to replace
them by citizens, who to their talents, join
3 honesty and irreproachable patriotism.
Y The Directory recommends to you more
' especially to exafl from all employed in your
,s offices, that they neither give nor receive any
I. appellation, except-that of citizf.n.
j The qualifications, .with which the repre
{ featatives of the people and the firft ma gilt rat y
arc honored, is forbidden in forae offices-,, with
'' such impudence, that some have rcfufed to lif
't ten to it, and others feigned not to hear th<
d republicau petitioners, who have intromited it
r. in their reqiiefts. The Executive Dire&ory
rs are poffefied of certain information relative to
!_ this fait, and it is an important point to which
it is their duty to call your mention ; citizen
' minister, order that the title of origin (hall
n be exclusively ufei in your office and re;>:;rd as
'C unvvnthy to tranfafl bufmefs with you,-all
e those Missituxs, who disdain to mike use < f
is it.
lt The republic ought not to have any hut
|„ friends in France, much Irfs ought jhe |o rt
ward Jier enemies by officf«.
In another letter of the ift Vendeiniaire,
the directory writes to the minister of police,
thus, " The directory charges>y6u expressly t<>
lit (hut up all the theatres, throughout the repub
;s lie, where pieces msy bereprefenH'd, tending
„ s to deprave the republican spirit, and to revive
■ the love of royalty ;it charges you instantly
to arrest and bring before the tribunals, the
managers of such theatres, and to suspend the
■h rcprefen tation of pieces calcu'sted to dillurfythe
| uMic tranquility; you will announce these
orders, in the mod precise m inner, to the
members of the centra! offices, and municipal
administrations, you will make yourfelf accoun
table for their inexecuiion, »nd you will in
iorin them, that in cafe of negligence or refu
fal to comply with these orders, the diredWy
r- irrefnlved to deprive them of tl|cir offices,
y. and that thev (hall be still amenable to the laws
)e in cafe it (hall appear that they have been ac
jji complices.
The iixecutive pirellory, citizen minister,
relies on your zeal, and devoted attachment to
ie the republic, and bopies that you will concur
£ S with it, by every method to raise the public
r- spirit, attacked in its source and even in the
ie institutions which ought to nouriffi it."
September 28.
„ The following is the lift of the brave and re
? fpeiftable soldiers, who have received thp civic ,
jjparland, the tft of this month, in the name of
the republic.
Etienne 'Jaron, captain, aged 30 years, ha
ill ving 101 l his two arms by a caiinon ball, at the
n- ftege of Huninguen, in the army of the Rhine
JS and Moselle.
Francis Marten, captain, aged 24 years,
having loft Jiis two legs and thighs in a naval
combat, which took place, the ijtlj Prairiil,
s * ,ad year, on board the Northumberland man of
ie war, in the fleet commanded by Villaret Joy
eufe.
0 f John Baptifle Gautfler, captain, aged 5S
le yeas*, having loft his eves a«d his cheek, and
also his upper jaw bioken, in the of Wif
f fertbourg, at the siege of Hagueuan. the 12th
0 of Frimaire, id year, in the army of the Rhine.
e - Sept-mber 39.
if- It will be recollected that a qaaker being fcre
ty Ttat at one of the fittings of the council of an
cients, kept his baton j in conlequence of this,
' ar a debate arose whether he (honld be permitted
r. to remain there, as h > perfiftid in not upcover
,. inghishead; it was determined in the negative
ancflte was obliged to withdraw. This person,
d: whose name is John Walker, has written the
It following curious-letter to the Prefid»nt of the
he council.
en " Thou canst not be ignorant that ti>ere ira
jj people who look upon the ceverartce of,ta!tiny
off the hat, in the fame j ight as other denomin--
re ations of christians view the be-ading of the knee
■°* that is to. fay, as an hommage due only to our
>ui creator. I cannot render such homage to my
equals, whosoever they be ; nor can I request
m _ of them, as to favor, to dispense with it; lince
,jj_ that would be acknowledging that they have
' ? a right to eitail a mark of homage which, ac
cording to my belief, is similar to adi/ration.
ro " I hepe, therefore, that my pcrieverinp to at
er - tend your fittings, without taking off my hat
iu will not be cenltrued as a mark of difrcfpc&.—Theperfecution.'that I have experieii -ed in t'us
republic has, upon t'ie whole, bean nothing
'"ore than a series of fnterefting adventures.
'J lie pelitenel'. of your hussars, and the foft
manners the fpedlators »f your fittings,
charmed mc even when I was ltd out like a
criminal."
" Friend, I salute thee with afteflion and
refpeft."
llllll.il————
C 0 N G R E" S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, NOVOMBER 24.
Mr. Swanwick presented the petition of
Dr. John Lockman, a surgeon in the south
ern department of the army, stating that he
was now become a cripple, and praying for
relief. Referred to the committee of claims.
Mr. Harper moved that the house form
itfelf into a committee of the whole on the
speech of the President of the United St3tes.
The motion was agreed to, and Mr. Dent
was called to the The speech hav
ing been read by the ehairman,
Mr. Harper and after him Mr. Lyon
rose. The chairman determining the for
mer to have the precedence,
Mr. Harpp.r objjsrved, that.it had been
lifual for the house to present an address in
answer to the communications of the Presi
dent. He said he had in his hand the reso
lution which had heretofore been adopted,
which he should submit to the eonfideration
of the committee. . It was to the following
effeft :
" Resolved that a refptclful Address be pre
sented by the House. of Representatives to the
President of the United St .tes, in answer to
Lis Speech to both Houses of Congress at the
tommencement of the present session, containing
ajfurar.eet that the House will tale into consider-
Ation the various and important matteis recom
mended to their atteutior..
Mr. Lyon said, he was opposed to a re
foljtion of this kind. He had risen to have,
nlade a different one, hot the preference had
been given to the gentleman from South C»r
olina. He wished to get rid of a debate of
ten or fourteen days about the wording of an
answer to the Prefident'* speech. He had
it in contemplation to have returned an an
swer direftly from the house, by appointing
a comnii' tee to inform the President they
were ready to go od with their bufincf* ;
as he wished also get rid of the trouble
feme and greatly derided cuflom of turning
put en masse to wait upon the President. If
he were in order, he would rend what he
intended to have moved.
The chairman declaring itwould be in or
der to read the proposition in his place, Mr.
Lyon read as follows :
" Resolved as the opinion of this Committee,
that the various fubjeds submitted to the eonfi
deration of Congress by the Prejident of the
, United States, in his fpeeeh to both Houses at
the commencement of the present fejfion, ought
to be taken into full and mature eonfideration by
this House, and proceeded on with that due at
tention ar.dd'fpatch, -which their refpeß'rve im
portance, and a jujl regard to the public intcrejl
nui j demand, and that a committee tjf members
be appointed to wait on the President, and in
tlx name of the House refpeflfully to assure him
of its ready co-operation with tlx other depart
ments of Government, in all such measures as
may be deemed advfeable for the, public good,
and to promote the peace, bappinefs, and welfare
of the United States."
Mr. Harpe« supposed it was not neces
sary to use any arguments to shew the pro
priety of adopting the fame resolution which
had hitherto been thought proper. He be
lieved the occasions for innovation should be
evident and strong, before they were resort
ed to. He had never heard any reason, in
private or in public, for departing frop the
rule which had been laid down by their pre
df-effors. With refpeA to the propriety of
this -mode of proceeding, if it should be
called in question, be doubted not that there
iwere members present who would shew that
it was proper, and had been adopted after
serious eonfideration ; but the mode propo
feti having been the constant praftice since
tlh; adoption of the present government, was
a fufficient reason for continuing it. The
gentleman from Vermont had said " it was
a very troublesome and much derided cere
mony." With refpeft to its being trouble
some, that was the fault of gentlemen who
were opposed to the measure. They might
make objeftionsto every sentiment in anan
fwer, and by that means produce along de
bate ; otherwise the business would not be
a troublesome one. As to its being a deri
ded ceremony, he knew gentlenSn who had
caused themselves to be fubjeft* of derision
by their attempt* to deride it ; but whether
those attempts hats redounded to their own
honor, or made them appear ridiculous, he
left every one to decide.
Mr. Otis enquiredwhethcrtherefolution
of the gentleman just fat down was in order.
The Chairman replied, that the motion
of the gentleman from S. Carolina must firft
be decided upon.
It was then put and carried by 52 votes in
the affirmative.
T£e committee then rose and reported the
resolution. The house took it up ; when
Mr. HAVENScalled forthe yeas and nays;
which having been agreed to,
Mr. Venable said, the yeas and nays hav
ing been determined to be taken, as he in
tended to vote in the negative, he thought
it necessary trf give his reasons for doing so.
He did not wish to enter into a long difcuf
fiori on the fubjeft at present. It was well
known, th'it the mode of proceeding in an
swering the address had accafioned confid er
ablc embarrassment in the House. It was
not out of any difrefpeft to the chief magis
trate, that he was opposed to it Th. gen
tleman from South-Carolina had said, that
except inconveniences had grown out of the
praftice, it ou jht not to be altered. If the
gentleman wom'd stand on thii ground, he
would pardon hvs vote. It was not from a
wish to innovate, that he wished the cuftcm
departed from,but because it' ha« been found
to be attended w;'i h real inconveniences. It
was well known, that hereto fore two or three
weeks bad been confumeJ in debating upon
anfvver to the speech, which he thought
an unnecessary wade of time, and delay of
public business. This he thought a ferioils
evil, and a fufßcient reason for departing
from the former precedent, which was ef
tabliflied at a time when this inconvenience
was not seen. He was therefore, willing to
change it.
Mr. Lyon said, it did not argue much
for the age we lire in, that they were to fol
low euftoms, merely because they had been
established, which was all the reason the
gentleman from S. Carolina had given for
adopting his resolution. He thought the
gentleman last up had fhewnfofficient ground
for departing from the old praftice. lie
himfelf had attended to every argument he
had heard in that house and out ps it on the
fubjeft, in his favour, and he did not think
them of any weight.—He fliuuld wish to
hear the reasons which gave rife to it. It
was his opinion that they ought not to be
bound by precedent,but every day endjavor
to do better than chey did the last.
The question was put, and the ycSS and
nays taken as follow ;
Yeas.—MefTrs, Allen, Baer, Baldwin,
Bayard, Bullock, Chapman, T. Clai\oro,
Cochran, Coit, Craik, Dana,Dent,Edmond,
Evans, Findley, A. Foster, D. Foster, J.
Freeman, Glenn, Goodrich, Gordon, Grif
wold, Hanna, Harper, Hartley, Hindman,
Holmes, Hofmer, linlay, Livingfton,
Lyman, Machir, Matthews, Morgan, Mor
ris, Otis, Ifaae Parker, Pinckney, Reed',
Rutledge, Schnreir.an,Shepard, Sinnickfon,
Siyjreav<fs,N. Smith, R. Sprigg, Swan wick,
1 hatcher, Thomas, Thompson, Tillinghaft,
Van Alen, Varnum, Wadfworth, J. Wil
liams, R: Williams.—s7.
Nays.—MefTrs. Bard, W. Claiborne,
Clay, Clopton, Dawfon, Elmondorf, Gal
latin, Harrifen, Havens,Locke, Lyon, Ma
con, M'Clenachan, New, W. Smith, Stan
ford, A. Trigg, J. Trigg, Van CortlaHdt,
Venable.— 19.
Mr. Lyon (aid, the house had now de
termined upon an address. He would move
what he thought would be the proper form.
[He then read the fubflance of his refolu
tion.j
The Spea ker said it was not now in or- I
4er to fay what the address should be. The
gentleman might, after the committee was
appointed, make bis motion by way of in
ftruftion to the committee ; or when the ad
dress should be reported, he might move his
as a substitute.
Mr. Lyon questioned the opiwon of the
speaker, as to his being out of order.
The Speaker declared he was so ; if the
gentleman still thought otherwise, he might
appeal to the house.
Mr. Lyon submitted, and a committtee
of five was appointed to draft dn answer,
viz. MefTrs. Otis, Dawfon, Rutledge, Bay
ard and Baldwin.
Mr. Harper said, amongst the Mnfinifh
ed bnfinefs of last fefiion, there was a bill
for the more effeftual colleftion of certain
internal revenue*. He wished it to be com
mitted to a committee of the whole.
Mr. Gallatin said it was unufnal to go
into the eonfideration of a bill which origi
nated ii» a former feflion, in this summary
way.
The Speaker said he wasaßqut to ob
serve, that the resolution of the committee
ofrevifalatid unfinifhed business, which had
been agreed to, did comprize bills : they
must of course be proceeded with according
to the rule of the houfe'on that fubjeft,
which he read.
Mr. Harper consented, and withdrew
his motion.
Mr. Harper gave notice, that on Mon
day next, he should move for leave to bring
in a bill for establishing an uniform system
of bankrupt laws for the United States.
Mr. Venable moved that a committee
be appointed to consider whether aay and
what alterations are n»-ffary in the law for
regulating foreign coins. He said very con
siderable loss had been experienced in diffe
rent parts of the country by foreigji coins,
particularly by French crowns, and he tho't
some regulation on this fubjeft was immedi
ately necessary.
Mr, Macoh and Mr. Harrison spoke
of the rreceflity of the measure, and a com
mittee of three was appointed.
Mr. Findley moved that the petition of
Benjamin Wells, colbftur in the western
part of Pennsylvania, for further redress for
injury sustained by the infurreftion, present
ed the other day, be referred te a feleft
committed. *
Mr. RfACON objefted to its being sent
to a special committee on the fame ground
as when it was prcfented—cMr. Hartley
spoke in favour of a feleft committee on ac
count of the Angularity of the cafe, and
went into the merits ef the claim—Mr.
Sitgreaves wished it on account of dis
patch, as the petitioner was waiting— Mr.
Coit acknowledged the feleft committees
were generally more favourable to claims
than the ftatiding committee, but he did
not think this ought to make them depart
from their usual practice, particularly as the
rule of the house was express on this head— <
[He read it] —Mr. Gallatin was in fa- 1
Vour of a feleft committee, as the petition in
volved the question whether any farther re- t
lief ought to be granted to persons of this <
description. He did not wish this because '
he was in favor of farther recompenece, for
he, and the people in his part of the conn- <
try, thought there had been already more 1
than fufficient granted. He wished the <
question, however, to come into difcuflion,
and to have a decision ; and as the com- t
mittee of claims uniformly threw out all t
claims which were not founded upon some
law, they would certainly throw out this, as
it rather asked a favour, than dynatided a
right, he was in favour of its going into a 1
feleft committee. 1
The question was put on reference to
the committee of claims, and carried 38
to 37. I
Mr, Harjesi said, he should lay upon the
table some refo'utions refpefiimjr thp mode
of taking eviderrcfi in conteftrd ele&ion-,.
■ It would be rerolledletl, he said, that the
house had experienced great inconvenience
1 for want of some fixed mode of taking evi
dence in such cases. Persons had been o
bliged to attend here for inftrti&ions, they
bad gone back to take the evfdetice, and be
fore they could return, the session probably
had closed. To remedy this inconvenience,
1 it had been thought some permanent ir.ode
might be adopted,"so as to prevent these
1 double journies, and consequent expences.
The motion which he now submitted, was
brought forward in the session befor- last,
but postponed for want of time.
The resolutions were read, and commit
ted to a GommLcteeio£the whole for Wed
nesday. • :g bti
On motion, the honfe adjourned till
Monday. • H
Xfje
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY F.VF.NIVG, NOVEMBER
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, 2stb Nov. I 797.
6 per Cent. 16/10 to 17/
.! per C«nt. 10/4 to 6
Deferred 6 per Cent, yfb
BANK United States, 13 per ct. adv.inM.
1 I'ennfylvania, 15 da.
■ North America, 50 do.
lafurance Co. Hennfylv:inia, (hares per eent.
N. A. {hare* (o do.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 day* par
• at 60 day* (S5
————— at 90 day* 6s
Amil. rdjm, per guilder -40
————— 90 day* 42
A letter from London of the 30th Sept
received via Boston, iuforms that the Fair
American, Treadwell, and the Star, Wrod
man, were to foil for this port, the firft, on
the 22d Septembci, and the latter in a few
days.
A small British squadron have destroyed
in a Swedlfh harbor, a French (hip of war.
In confequeuce of this violation of their neu
trality, the Swedes have taken the crew of
the French veflel under their prote&ion, ar
retted the British commodore, and put an
embargo on his fqnadron.. [Fed. Gaz.)
The magistrates of Coblentz have remon
strated against the lawless proceedings that
have taken place there; and in consolation,
the French (Generous fouls) fay they will
save them the trouble of taking care of the policy
of tha. city, and promise proteftion to the
advocates of the Cis Rhinane republic." '
(CJ'The Introductory Ledlure, to
the Course of Anatomy, will be delivered
at the Medical School in fifth street, ft one
o'clock next Monday.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
DAY*
Ship Commerce, Wefcott, Liverpool 80
Dominick Hart, Lisbon 50
Brig Ariel, Gardiner, St. Croix 21
Neutrality, King, London 137
United States fch'r Hamdallah, Prince,
[Baltimore 15
Sloop Polly, Farringdon, Boston 8
Polly, Gladdiing, Rhode-Island 11
CLEARED.
Armed Britiffi ship Niger, Thouars, Port
[au-Prince
Capt. Wefcott spoke, o<3. 28, lat. 40,
48, long. 57, 16, the (hip Birmingham
Packet, Kelley, from Havre for this port,
all well.
• Providence, Nov. 18.
Thursday evening arrived the brig Sally,
capt. Donuifon, in 16 days from Turks-Is
land. He informs, that a Liverpool /hip
from the coast of Africa, with 300 Haves,
had arrived off the Weft-India islands—the
Haves had risen on the crew, and killed all
except two seamen. The brig Robert, capt.
HutchinsofCharlelfon, on her passage from
Boston for Jamaica, was chafed and bro't
ta by the above fliip, perhaps with a view
to obtain provisions or water, whentaptain
Hutchins, from an apprehension of meeting
fate of the /hips company, quitted the brig
and took to his long boat. He arrived at
Turk's island with his crew, two days be
fore capU Donnifon failed.
Baltimore, Nov. 21.
Captain Mann, of the Ihip Adelaide, has po
litely favored tis with the following arti
cles :
Vessels left at Rotterdam, September 28.
Ship George Washington, Donaldfon, Bal
timore
Lexington, M'Kinfy, Alexandria,
ready to fail
Union, Nutting, Boston
Brig Hazard, Robinson, do.
Hariott, Dean. do.
Oftober 6, parted with the brig Bride, j
captain Quandrill, from Rotterdam bound 1
to Philadelphia.
October 10th, spoke brig William, cap
tain Wells, from Baltimore bound to Havre '
de-Grace, out 5 weeks, lat. 48, 49, long, j
7, 29, W. 1
November 3d, spoke the barque Mars, j
captain FowJer, from St. Übes, out4l days, :
bound to Philadelphia,, lit. 36, 15, N. long. 1
63,0, W. 1
November 9th, fpokethe ship Eliza, cap
tain Fuhrwerk, from Bremen boundtoßal- -
timorc, out 85 days, lat. 36, 42, long. 70,
30, W. .
Arrived this day, Ship John, captain
Dangcrfield, from Liverpool for Norfolk,
lat. 46, long. 32. Same day, ship Indian
Chief, captain Sawyer, from Batavia for
London.
Brig Hannah, captain Beard, from Am
sterdam for Philadelphia, lat. 41, 30, long.
Sw j
J By this day's Mail.
BALTIMORE, November 2 I.
0 . Yesterday arrived, in the (hip Adelaide,
■ y from Rotterdam, lieut. George Izard, of
e _ the corps of artillerists and engineers.—Mr.
|y Izard, we understand, is ieharged with dif
e, patches for our government.
le
f t [_Tr(inflatedfor the Fkd'XJL Gazrttx.']
S. / s
as MILAN, September 8.
\ t We are on the eve of learning the greatest |
events, peace, or the mod a&ive renewal of
t. hostilities ag.iinft the Imperialists. General
J. Buonaparte has just passed in review all the
divffions of his army, and found them in
11 them in the best order—animated by the
fame feelings, he said, " Soldiers, in tvyo
• months an honourable peace will recal you
to your fire fides, or you will be once more
in the heart of Austria, or under the walls
of Vienna." The French warriors cordial
ly viewed either perfpeftive. Meanwhile,
Buonaparte in lodged in a castle of the an
■* cient Doge of Venice, Martini, in the envi
rons of Godroipo, and not far from Udina,
where are the plenipotentiaries of Austria,
/• Before his departure for Udina, he added
a new rnembejr, the citizen Brehi, formerly
t employed in the war offices to the dire&ory
of our republic, declaring, that he " be
lieved the little experience of those in admi
nistration rendered this aid necelTary." We
dill flatter ourselves with the greateil hope
of peace, as we are allured that gen. Buon
aparte belives he may dispense with the di
visions of generals Joubert and Maflena, by
prdering them to the interior of France to
pacify, they fay, and keep down the depart
ments of the South, ready to declare in fa
vorof royalty.—The French troops in quar
'r tcr at Mantua have committed all kinds of
excefltrs ; they have pillaged the citiz«n«
n and the inhabitants of the country, and car-
M ried off almaft every ueceffary of life.—The
commandants Jiave at last rendered justice
to the numerous complaints addressed from
every quarter and given orders for do sol
• diers to !eave their barracks. Murmuring
" at this order, some companies revolted, and
they were obliged to call in the cavalryand
some cannon to reduce the mutineers ; a
11 dozen of soldiers were shot and some officers
were degraded. Gen. Leclerc (hewed on
'this occasion much wisdom and firmnefs.—
This day all is quiet, and the discipline
1 constantly observed by the army of Italy,
» will not give way to insubordination and a -
narcby. A person named Giardinetti, who
y levied contributions in Italy, in the name
; and authority of Buonaparte, which he had
nevertheless not received, was beheaded here
on the 22d August. The ci-devant mar
) quis d'Entragues, who was kept here a pri
-1 foner, but to whom many favours were
: gtanted on his parold'honneur, has fled with
a woman, said a&ually to be his wife.—
This is the fame d'Entragues, the manu
. feript of whom was published on the events
of the 18th Fruftidor,
ExtraS tf a letter from Vitnna—September 9.
" The day before yesterday, M. de Kxef
• ky, who left Udina the sth inft. arrived here
3 as meflenger extraordinary from the marquis
5 di Gallo, with dispatches. We do not learn
[ that he has brought any thing eoncerrfßig
' the result of the definitive negociations.—
Our plenipotentiaries they fay, infill always
I on the express accomplilhmcnt of Leoben,
' touching Mantua. The Frenchplenipoten
t tiaries appear more traftable in virtue of
their new inftruftion, unless new circumftan-
caufe a second change. Gen. Buona
: parte has ordered a great number of troops
> to march towards the Venetian territories.
1 Our army in Italy is irf a most refpeftablc
> state. In both armies the reigning diseases
have diminished fmce the great heats have
moderated."
B E E F.
Prime Beef, fit for India voyages, far fait by
, ' WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, High-street.
Also, about fifteen hundredweight of Bees -
Wax.
Nov- if, 17,97- dtf.
A farm for sale,,
IN Perth Amboy in the state of New-Jersey,
of four( hundred ai.res, including a proper 1
proportion of meadow, of arable and wood
land, and marlh : There is on the preflnifes, 1
a good apple orchard, and a variety of other
fruit trees, it is well watered with springs and j
brooks, it is bounded on two fides with navi- j 1
gable waters and has a good mill site, its fitua- | ;
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a ; j
view of the navigation of Perth Ambpy and its J
environs, and sonveniept to the fineft fifh and
oysters in their proper season, it abounds with 1
natural manure fr«m which, with the advanta
ges of the fait marfli by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of stock, may at a small
etfpenfe, be enriched to a great degree and ren
dered one of the firft grazing farms in the state , 1 j
it/ta well calculated for a farmer or a gentle- j;
man's feat, having several eligible sites for ! „
building. This farm will be fold together or I t
divided, as mav suit a purchaser, at private t
sale, or if not fold, willbefet up at public aue- a
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Decern- b
ber next, at the house of Robert Rattosne, inn- f]
keeper in Perth Amboyt at eleven o'clock in h
theforenoon. Any person inclining lopurchafe y
may view the premises by application to John *
or Matthiai Halfled at Perth Amboy, from t
v.\h:m or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, F.fq. b
speaker of the house of repreMttatiyes of the a
United States now in Philadelphia, trom Mat- v
thias Williamfon, jun. efq. or Mr. SanAiel Smith a
at Elizabeth-Town further information may be
obtained, —and who are poffeficd of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797-
if-T-e'oattSr)
For Sale by the Subscribers, «
Prime Rice in whole and half t iercei
Bordeaux Brandy
Tentriffe Wine
Molajps
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck aid one hogjhead of pant
brushes.
N. (5* y> Frazer.
A'e, 95, Sonth Front Street.
! Nov. "7. dim
On MONDAY,(IVEfiING, Nov. zn\
At o'lLteJis' hotel;
Mcff j. chalmprs.c/ wiluamson:
Will present tfie titizeps with a new specie* of
fiitcrt called
f The Tablet^
Or. (UST IN TIME.
Confi ling nl.KeatlmVs, Recitations ami Song*.
Readings anil Keeitaiion*, Serine* *nd Comic'
•hy Mr. CHALMERS.
Singii.it-By Mr. WILLIAMSON, (being
his firrt appearance in public in this city.)
Selc \ pieces of Mtific and Accomoaniments on
i Pi* 10 Forte, hjr Mr. B. CARR. ,
'fT Particulars will lie given'in a future ad-
I v.fcrtifcmMit.'
I T'i begin precifelv at half pall fix o'clock.
> November 25, ....
. I*o the ' inhabitants of the United
> "( States.
1 .
SINCE t|i« knowledge oi medicioe, non>. ly* ev
cr proved v fo astonishingly cflicaciou*, so uni-'
. verfally eftccmed, or to which the aflhArd with
Rheumatifnii, Qout, Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Pally, Jinrams, Bruises nod Chilblains, may look:
for relief with so much confidence, as
| Whitehead's ejence of Mujlard.
I his extraordinary Medicine very soon affords
' the w,fh ;d for relief, " even to the ajed in cafe*
I the most delperate." For these substantial reafou,
it ii patromfed by all ranks of people in England.
l'rom the g eat number of communications con
(Untly received by Mr. Jokmston, he is under th"
necefii'y (in laying them before >h: world) of a
| bridging their contents; the fallowing lettters (it
though curtailed) are so very important, and the
• figria: ures so v:i y refpefiable, that lie conceives he
should be doing injustice to Whitehead's EJenet »f
Mufiarl, were hs to withhold them from public iii
fpe>3ion.
Letter from Mrs. Mills, Hjih* keeper to the Duke
of Cumberland.
r , Nov. 1, 179 J.
A mod inveterate Rheumatism and Lumbago
■ (occcationed by laying in a damp bed, when at
BruflVls, in the suit of Her Royal Highaefs ths
Dutches; of ■Jnmberland) hasaffiiaid me eighteen
years. I have employed the firft medical gentle
men in London, and (although I derived no bene
fit) am bound to acknowledge my gratitude to se
veral of the nobility, who knew my deplorable si.
tuition, ana humanely sent me their phyucians; I
have also tried mod advertised medicines. At
length, fir, after eighteen years excruciating
tortrire, a few bottles of your Whitehead's EJmct
<f Mujlard, have, I thank God, restored me to the
incllitnable bleifings e{■ health and permanent cafe.
Yours, math obliged,
No. 134. Jermya-ftreet,St. James's. S. MILLS.
Copy of a letter from G. Countess, esq. Captain of,
His Majesty's Ship the Dedalus.
S> r , Spithead, Nov. t, tjsf.
As I expe<3 to fail in a few days, I beg you will
immediately forward me a dizen of Whitehead's
Ejence •/ Mustard. It gives me considerable fstif
fa&isn to inform you, I have myfelf experienced
its good effe&s, and have in frveral instances of
Rhenmatifms, Sprains, and Bruises, witnefled its
astonishing efficaey. I think you would eonfult
your own interest by appointing it to be fold at
Portsmouth, and all other seaports; for you may
reft afTured, when this invaluable fpecific becemo
generally known, «ot an Officer in His Majesty's
Navy will go to sea without it.
, Yours, fcc.
O. COUNTESS.
Sir, Dec. *O, 1795.
A severe stroke of the Palsy, fix months ago, de
prived me of my (peech, and the use of one fide.
In this desperate situation, Whitehead's Ejence ./
Mujlardwa very strongly recommended, and, I
thank God asfuccefsfully applied. By perfevcring
in its use a short time, I was completely re,lored,
and continue to enjoy the full and 'perfe<9 use of
my fiiculties, although near eighty years of age.
Yours, W. FRANCIS,
No. 14, Arabella-raw, Pimlico.
Mr. Francis has held a public situation at
the Guildhall in the city of Weftininfter, many
years, and is well known to the generality of the
refpeiftable inhabitants.
Letter from A. McCan Esq. Capt. of the 60th re
giment, dated Fort George, Guernsey,
J« r . fan. 4, 1707
Tfpwari's of five years past I have been afflicted
with a most violent Rheumatic Affe<fti®n in my
head, which has baffled the flcill of the most emi
nent Physicians; fomcmonthi since I was induced
to try your Whitehead's Ejence of J am
now happy to inform you, it has done me essential
service.and I think it neeeffary to declare, no other
medicine ever gave me the fmalUft degree of relief.
1 am with regard, yours, &c. &c.
Capt. 6otk Regt. . A . McCAN.
August, 1705:
Mr. Middleton, of ChefterfieUt-ilreet, St. Ma
ry le-bone wasfo severely affli(9e!l with the Rheu
matic Gout, as to be unable to move m my bed for
fixmonths; his limbs were,en«rmou(ly fwelled,a<>d
at length fiom exeeffive pain became quite black.
In this Hiftreffing situation h. tt« induced ro wy
your Whitehead's Ejence cf Mvflard; the cffsiS far
exceeded the most sanguine expectation, his pain
was immediately alleviated, and his limbs returned
to their natural colour ; his appetite reflored, and
in a very iliort time he was enabled to leave his bed
and walk with crutches; and by a few weeks per»
severance, was completely .restored to the full cn
! joynaent of porfeift health.
\* Mr. Middleton, with his son, repeatedly
called as fee got better, oa Mr. Johnfton, and de
clared that his life was utterly defpairedof.
Refpefled Sir, Nov. 6. lyof;
Palfing by a croud, in the fifth month of her
pregnancy, my nile received a dreadful blow on
her fide,- which apparently destroyed the life of the
infant ; after the most Ocilful advice, and trying
various remedies for two months, she still found
the symptoms increafeto an alarming degree : spit
ting of blood—shortness of breath— and othSfdif
agreeabls circumftrnces appeared from so violent a
bruise, afforded only the fatal appearance ol her
speedy dissolution. A friend to whom Ireland
her fad cafe, having experienced great benefit from
your Whitehead's Ejence if Mujlard, kindly present
ed me with a bottle ; to my uofpeakable l'atisfac
tion, it fpcdily relieved her from pain ; a lecond
bottle has removed every diYagreeablc symptom
and with the most heartfelt gratitude I inform you|
we have the happy profped of her long continuing
a living mother to our numerous family.
Your* &c. T. HURLOCK-
Whitmore's-row, Haxton.
CHILBLAINS.
Whitehead"J Ejence of Mujlard generally cure*
Chilblains and common Rhcumatifms, on the firfk
orfecon 1 application, and often removes the mufl
violent Sprains and Bruises, in two or three day.
Caution.—A Certificate is pafled on eachbottio
and box, and to prevent the danger of counterfeits
another certificate is also figaedbyG. Shaw & Co.'
of Philadelphia.
Shaw & Co. have also imported by the William
Penn, a quantity of Gowland's Lotion for the face
and fkiu—Balfam of Honey for coughs, asthma.
andcoi fumptions—Chur h'»Cough Drops, and a
variety ol other Patent Medicines.
novi mber »j. "f&w^tCanll Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, tbezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in thisjLottury, ut
Seven Dollars, at Wm, BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South S^cond-ilreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at 7V«
DoHursy whcie check books are kept lor render
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may behad inmoftof theLottc- -
ries authorifsdby law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufinefa of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcouritnjj Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &£,. &c. will be duly attended to,
by ;Wm. BLACKBURN. j
nO-ve7r.hr 15. 5
From MarfciTles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh-barque Gnftavus Adolphu-s,from
confiding of the following articles,
15 difchorging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the subscribers
BR |NDY, well flavored, of t, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in
Ditto, in cafe<
Frontigoiac Wine, in cases ,»f 30 bottles
Olive Od, of a superior quality, in balkets of 6 ,
and ii bottles
Capers
O'ivts :
Almonds
Dty Verdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) 0f,28, 30, and 31 inches
TafTetics
Long and (hort white Kid OToves for Women
Siik Stockings J
Har.dkerchiefi, in imitation oi^Madrafs
Artifieial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented finir-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 17. _ eotf
School Books and Stationary.
W. Y O~U NG,
No. {i, Second-Hreet, corner of Chefnut-drect,
HAS now ready, for sale, a very large afTort
ment of Englijb, Fremit, Latin qnd Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, fucty elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY rUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large Ii mo price I dol. 75 «ts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing,'and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's. Boards, Padehoards,
flieathing and Hotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, «f
the belt quality, used in t!se counting house, or
public office *
■f-y Catalogues of a mifcUancont colleAicn of
BOOKS, with tie price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above* OA. 24. —3aw6w
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, Stuth Front Street, M
FOR SALT.,
100 HogfheaSs of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipei of old Port Wint-
O&. 17. ' n ictf
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any irthtr
the Citv —
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the Tingle Box or Quanti'.y, may be had at the
store of the Subfcriben, corner of Arch and Front
ffreet. •
'James C. & SamuelW. Fisher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1737. Slwmwfif
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ftrect, corner of North alley, No. vt>
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine in cases and
boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in callfit
Ticklenburgs
Russia Sail Clothi «
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Heflicns
Diaper and Tabic Cloth v
Empty hags
Common German Cl<*h
An affortmcntof black coloured Ribbons
Fine German Laces '
About twelve tons Russia dean Hemp
Clover Seed tj.
Italian Soap, in flfiaH boxes, for family us«
Window Glass Aug 29 —law
Fur sale or to be let on gronnd
rent,
A-ruaUiahle Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet ind an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick hcwles, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores,' wharf, &c. situate on
Water-flreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras
ftreetSj containing in front on Water street fif
tyffour feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nineiy-feve feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the conveninnce of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very dcfirable fitua
tion-for a merchant, flour fai£Vor,or others who
may have oscafion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for cash. For further information apply to the
printer.
July jr. m&wtf
This Day is Published,
BY MefT. Dubfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Bookfellertf,
Price One Dollar and iwenty-fivecenia.
Elegantly printed on IVuve paper, and Hot
pre [fed, •
By John Thompson,'
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions /
Of th» fcveral States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Confticution, and
classing together their raoft important provisions,
under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes andObf ervat ' ons -
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to tin Pcopl« of the Unite.! States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on a a inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
Februa«jr6 mwf
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH K. G. M D. La*'GRANGE,
No. ii" \W.lnut ItrLct,
TNFORMS tiiofe who with to r:*cur the only
I moans of becoming perfect in the French Lan
guage, that he has juti: opened hi* I.iprar Y» con
tifcing of upwards of I 250 volume*, the best cai
cuiated to afford either ufefui inflru&ion, or plea
sure. The conditions, tog-ether with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at evrry book feller's
m town.
n. 11. All translations from and into rhtfFrench,
English ?frd Spanish Languages executed wkh ac
curac> and difpatqh. totm nov. IS
LA W BOOKS;
Lattfl London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Rookfellers,
No. 16, South Second, dnd No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the hte arrivals'from
London and Dublin, theii fprinjj importa
tion, confiftingXif a variety of the latest and nioft
Approved J.aw Books, whicH,added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moll exieniive collection ev
er offered for fa'ein this country. They theiefore
beg leaveto notice, that from the nature of-their
conneAicnsin DnWiu, they are enabled to felllrifli
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowett prices. The following are a<nit>ng the latetl
publications.
| Vefey, jun'rs Reports in .Chancery, 2 "%>!•#
; Peake's Cases at Nisi Priua ; Ridgcway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwickw ; Floyer's Procters
! Practice in the Ecclefihftical Courts ; Barton's
| Treatise on a Suit in Equity ; TiddV Pra&ice of
the Court <if Kind's Bench in Personal Actions, 2
parts ccu-nplete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Use» ; nvjdern Reports, i» vols. Lon»fon edi
tion.
j H.Snd P. Rice o#cpcA t« receive by the firft ar
-1 rival from Kew-York the 6th vol. complete of
Dumford and East's Report*, the part of Gil
bert's Law jof Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June *6.
The History ot Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the press, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by XtCHA-
Riah Poulson, jaii. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fuUfcriptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until tl>e
work is ready for the subscribers.
July 18. anwef
THIS AS PUBI.KHEU,
And for file by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Seconft ftrect,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confiding of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
thelnftrnilion »nd amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes handfoinely printedand bound
up iu two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally efleemed one of the mod Valuable pub
lications th t can be put into th« hands of young
ptrfon*.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To tcack the yeung idea how tu (hoot,
To pour tfce frefh inftrtiAion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpir!t,and to fix
Theg«nerous purpufc in'the glowing breaA."
T Houiok.
August 24. , mwf4w
THIS D AY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second ih-eet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between feve»al f'aing Ladies,on improving and in
taretting fubjcAs.
Translated from tfee Dntch of Madame ie Qutnbom
WitH alteration* and improvement®,
Printid onJine paper, and neatly bound,
Prite one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Rom ancet, painting
tales «f wctraordinary diftrafs, or of defperafc or
artful villainy, which *• harrow up the fool/* and
wbick it would be for the honor of youug ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to fo
lieit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real lft % the proper, because
elegant and natural dippity and importance of tho Female
etaratbr is exhibited iu an intereftingpoint of view,
andprefenu examples of real and attainable excel
lence. »
The publiftier was fomuch pleafcdwkh the pem
lal, that he v/as pomaded he (hould do a pleaOng
fertfeeto th« community by fending it kno circu
lation. A 1 gull 24 —mw4w
Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above a<2 may be had ai
he Office of the (Sazetteof the United States, No.
119, Chefaut-flreet. July Ij.
Lanca/ler, llarrijburgh Carlijle,
Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnerflvpfwhich Ins for fomeeime fub
fiflcd between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dilTolved : bat, not as M.
Slough infinnatejto the public without just cause ;
as will- mtn-e fully appear by a letter on the fuh
je<Sl from-M. 31<% gh to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more eircnmftantially informed of the merits of
this buiinefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the per*fat »f M. Slough's letter, and then can bt
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer i» not perfedlly juftifiabie iti attaching hira
felf to any other porfon in the profecutioc of the
Stage »onveyanc; fror* Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous fapport
public were pleased to confef on the fird effort in
this business, VfiUiam Geer, in conjumflion with
Melfrs. Reily, Weed and Wi'mer, is determined
to prosecute and carry i; on, with every care, at
tention and difpatch*hat a zeal to oblige the pub
lic ean poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horfos, and evfry appuitcnance to
render the passage fefe and commodious, inform
those wno widi to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancader, Harrilburg,
Qarlifle arid Shippenlbirrg. The fare as hitherto
eltabiillied.
For ithe further .accommodation ol the public,
a Stage will dart ey:ry Wedn-efday from
of fiamud Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return lrom thence and arrive at Harrifburg
cVeiy Saturday, lo that passengers dedihed for
Lancader or Philadelphia, may proceed ou Moil
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancadcr, Jan. Z7 , 1797-
N- B. This Line of Stages llarta from th>
house of William Fcrroe, in Lancader, on every
ruefdaj and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. S imufl Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day mornirlg, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick -Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
fram thence on every
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. ' Blvvf
7(>e printers in the Unitcl Stated'* reqiiefieJ
to- infers the f»llawi-'g Gbferwtffots in their
papent, by which the puttie will be served,
as w il as their obedient fei"vant.
B. LINCOLN, Superintendent of
Lbht-Hunfes, State nf Majfachufetts.
By order of the tinned States, a Light House
lias been ere&ed at the Clay Ponds,on Cape
Cod j the .lamps in which are to be lighted on
the 15th inll. The light h»ufe ii efeSledon,
land elevated about 150 feet, which with the e
kyation of the Lantern makes the'whole heighth
100 feet above high water murk. In orderthat
this Light may be diflinguirtied from the 110/len
and other Lights en ourcoaft, an Ec-lipfer is e
reiled, which will revolve around the Lamps
once in 83 ftcondsfo that the light will be near
ly excluded from the eye of the approaching
mariner about thirty seconds, in orte revoluti
on of the eclipfer. To render -the ben,volerit
dcligns of CongrdVa? lively ufeful as pof
lihle, the Marine Sot-itfty i'n Bolton, hy a large
Corxmittee from their hrtdy, whoJo views have
been leci. by others, have taken fueh dil
tauces and bearings as thev thought necefiary ;
which observations giving light attd lafcty are
isfdded lor the benefit of all interelted—and are
as follows
Vellels outward hi und, from Boston Light
houft, and would with to fall in with-Cape-Cod
the coutle is E. S. E. diftancc 15 leagues, thence
3 leagues to the Light hoijfe. \Vhell up with
the L'ght-houfe and it hears S W i leagues dis
tance, you then (leer SS E which will carry
yo'. out of the south channel.
Vefiels inward bound, and fall in with the
back of Jape-Cod, bring the Light to bear SW
1 leagues distance, then you may fleer VVNVV
fut Boston Light-Hou'fe.
It you you would wilh to go into Cape Cod
harbor, you may keep the (hore aboard about
a mile distant, whef« you will have 10 fithoms
water. ThfVe is a bar lies off the back of the
Caps, about half a mile from the (hore.
When up with Race-point, which is vejy
bold, and about three 1-agues to theweftward of
the Light-honfe, and may be known by a num
ber ol fifh houses on it, from 1 to 3 miles to
the fouttwa»d of Race-point, is what is called
Herring Cove, where you m»y have good an
choring halt a mile from the (hore, the wind
from E to N N E in 4 or even 3 fathom water.
If bound into Cape Cod harbor, your course
from Race-point to Wood end, is S S E 6 miles
difUnce, bring the light to bear E by N and
run for it about two miles, you will then be
clear as Wood, end—then you must ftcer N E
until the light bears E by S —then I*llll N W
f.r the harbor, tn*l you have from 4 to 3 i-a
fathom! water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Ligfht then will bear F. by S i-» S 5 or
6 miles diitance.
In running from the Race point to Wood,
End—after you pass the Black Land or Hum
mueks, you will come up with a low fat;dy
beach, which forms the harbor; extending be
tween s and 1 miief to Wood-end, which is
difficult to be diftinguiftied in the night—lt is
very bold—you will have 25 fathom walcr
within half a mile of the (hore.
In beating iuto Cape-Cod harbor, you must
keep the callers (hore aboard, until you get in
to 5 fathom water. Stand no farther to the
weft ward than to bring the light to bear E by S
is there isa long spit of sand r*ns off from the
western (hore, which being very bold, you will
have 11 fathom water within a lionet throw of
fhnre.
Is kale itblows fohard that you cannot heat
in the harbor, you will hare good anchoring
without, froinuoto ij fathom water.
Veff?lj in Boilon bay and would »i(h to put
away fin-Cape Cod harbor, mull endeavor to'
fall in witiuhf Race. If in the night, ami von
eanfiot fee the lai;d, you jnuft bring the Light
to bear E by N and run for it until you have
foundings in 14 or 15 fathom warer t then steer
north east until the 'light bears E by S then .-un
in N W for the harbor. »
At full and change, it ii high water off Race
Point at 10 o'clock and 43 minutet. Vaffels in
leaving Cape C«1 bound to Boflon, (hould cal
culate the tide, a< the flood set» strong to the
louth weft
JOHN FOSTER WILLIAMS,")Committe
N (VTHANIEL GOODWIN, f from the
JOHN CRUFT, . C Marine
JOHN HILLS. J Society
, THOMAS BARNARD, A branch-Pilot
for the port of Ro/lon
SOLOMON COOK, \ Refdence at Pro-
ELIJAH NICKERSON ? 5 luncetonCapeCod
At a Meeting of the Marine Society, held at
Concert Hall, on Tuesday 7th (Nov 1797 —the
above Report of its Committee was read and
approved and ordered to he publifhnl.
• By order ofibe Society,
THOMAS DENNIE, President.
WILLIAM FURNESS, Sec'ry,
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement if the Federal City.
Amagniflcentdwelling-houfe ao,ooodoilars,
£tcalh 30,000, ire jo,ooo
1 ditto 15,000 Ik. cast 55,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000'
" 1 ditto 10,000 & cash jo,ooo ao,ooo
1 dith? 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calk 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
t do. 5,000 each, ire • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
10 do. i;oo - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
»oo do. jo 10,000
400 do. »5 - - 10,000
1,000 do. '»o • »0,000
15,000 do. 10 - »je,ooo
16,73s Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollart, 400,00s
N. B. Tofivour thofe*who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one:
And approved notes, fecuving payment in cither
mon.y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received sot any number not lets than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be in the Cily «f
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
(defied for the ehtire tronu on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed toerecl
two centre and r our corner bttHdings.as foona«pof
! fihle after this lott.ry is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir.
the manner dcfcribed in the scheme for the Hctcl
Lottery. A tiett deduAion of five per cent, wdl
be miiie to defray the ncceflary expenles of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made 3 of
the fund intended for the National Univerlrty, lo
be etecled within the city of Walhington.
The real lecuriticsgivcii for the payment of the
triies, are held by the President and two Dirc<ft
ors of tht Bank of Columbia, and are Valued at
more than haW the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
,§, Tieketsmay heV.ad at the Bajik of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore.; of Feter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins Richmond 1
and of Richard VVblls, Cuopsr's Ferry, ru\tl
A Negro Man.
the unexpired me (four year's)
of a stout, healthy, n&iVc egfo Man. He
is by oracle a Cooper, was brought up when a boy
to farming bufmefs, is a good ploughman, un
ci ex.V.uds the care and management of norses, and
is a good driver He has lately been employed in
painting a new house aad paintsVell-—he is good
"tempered, and believed to be ver f honest, fold part
ly for want of employ, but more for feeing addict
ed to liquor—For term 3 apply to No. ia, Dock
street, near Spruce lirect.
Nov. 6. tf
The Philadelphia y Alfiun, and 1 uckertun
MAIL STAG E.
rHE proprietors beg leave to inform the public, that
they haw efablifhed a Stage between Pl^*Lidelpbia %
Atfion, Batfto, Hampio*, Spiel-well, and Martha Fnr
nace, Waiting River fitting will, and the torvn of 'Tu it
er ton, in to go once a tveek, and are provi
ded with good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the ma il, pajftiigers, ard.
gvods. 'The Stage will fart every Tin if day, at IO '
o'clock, A. As. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, -and
lodge that night at foci Bodine s, at Longacoming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 a clock, P. As. arrive at Caleb* E
vans*s, inkeeper, in Tuclerton, dijlant from tire city 54
miles % (from the Atlantic 6, and from the F.aji Grouftng
Plains 7 miles) where arc good accommodation) for tra
vellers, and where are commodious andJ'afe paffige boats
provided to convey passengers to Capt. IVilliam War
ring Jlls house, on Tuckers IJland, adjeinining the At
lantic, whcrt are good accommodations, and a convenient
place to hat he ; the fportfnan who wijhes to regale himfef
with fowling and fjhing, may at this place be -highly gra
tified there being at almofl every fcafon of the yean fowl
andfjb in abundance .——'The Stage on its return, farts
from the aforefaid C, Evans's in Tucker ton, every, Tues
day% at 6 o'clock, A. As. breakfafls at John Bodines, at
Wading River Bridge, lodge t!/at night at Longacoming,
and at 1 o'ilock, P. XI. on Wednesday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper s Ferry. It is presumed that no route
an equal diflance will be left expensive, or furnifh the tra
voller with a greater variety tf amnfeme-'t, as he will
not only have a pleafunt fail to the aiianttC from Tucker
ten, but have the curieftty of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
mill, in complete t rder, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are own-rs, or faflors, tf any of the aforefaid iron works,
are folic'ited to encourage and support this Jlage (by wh cb
they can be so well acccmmcda ed) the continuance tf which
will much dependcn their aid. The rates of passengers
and baggage are as f llows : For a pajjinger from the
tiforefaul Daniel Coopers Ferry to Tucker ton, including
14 lb. of baggage. Two Dollars ; for way pajjengers
per milt, Four Cents—lso lb. of begaage equal to ap.if
fesirrer. Po/lage of letter *, newspapers t &c. will be
agreeably to law.
jV. B. The mail crojps from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS IVARDLE & Co.
Tuckertonf Sept. 28. 0<3.5. —2aiatf
~The Norfolk~Mail STAGE.'
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the comer of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tgefday, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the tr orning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
j Northampton Cs>urt House. the third day, and on
I the mo/ning of the 'fourth day the paffengcrs find |
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tucfd*y, Thurflay and Saturday, and the
j Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
' Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday ; puts up at Snow
j Hill the firft night, at Dover the 2d night, mid ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day. t )
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles lefa than on any stage route
between those places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft tt. drm.eotf.
Erlkine's View of the
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBEIX & 00.
No 40 Souvh Second ftrect,
[Price Cents]
A View of the Catifes and. Confequeri
ces of iheprefent War with Francs.
By the Honorable Thomas BttsKtNE.
May I*s ' 5
state trials.
Sold h W. Young, Bookfellrr, No. J'-, South S«-
coild-ftrecr,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CjONtaiuing the impeachment, trial, and ac<juit
al of Francis Hopkinfon, the Coui l of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for fu!e, a general aflprtmert <*f
Books Alio, Stationary, retail and by the park
ege, well allotted, and entitled to the drawback k
j axpofted. July 7 —•
For Sale,
That iutllknown place t called V/tNnr.*Rn t's
h kP R Y *
ON Nefhaminy erf*., 18 milts from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. CJpon the
premises are a large two Itory (tone boule occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threlhing
floor, and I'omc out building!—alfo a well of
good water, and an excelk-nt ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
' man s feat, commanding a view of the,Nefham
iny toitsjun&ion w'iih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey fhprc. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from Ihe hridge.
For terms apply to the SnWcribcr,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
May *4- ;sMwtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GktOOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpefl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years retiden*e i»
Philadelphia ; and aflures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Grooinbridgf and mafteri excelling in their
refpefflive prose (lions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June 51)1, (797- 1
The situation is perfeilly healthy ; and made
more agreeablehy an extensive garden and let
of ground adjoining the house.
JuJ Publi/hed,
And to be had of Meffri. DoMbn, Campbell,Rice,
Ciiry, and the o«her pricipal Bookfcllers in tKc
city .price one dollaf, tvriuty-fivc cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Ttibes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m b.
J*n« , *4t
Philadelphia, Cli. 13.
THE subscribers inform their friends and cuilo
mers 111 town and country,that their (lores arc now
open in the city, »nd oth«r» are daily opening, and
that from the prefcnt appearance ef the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
shortiv come to the city with perfect i'af ty. By
fcveral lute arrivals, numbers have received frc(h
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith Isf Co. P. IV. Gallaudet & Cc.
John Davis & Co. Sitgrea-ves & Fren(h,
Keill CJ> Smith, George Dob/on,
Wiltberger and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex Bit/land and Co., T. R. Hardenberg.
Jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and Co
-o<wev iy J'.na. Jenes, Thomas Orr,
Keppele $9" Zantzingtr, William Barker iff Cs.
Adam Zantzmger, Thomas Armat & Son.
'John Fries, J. Miller, jun. and Go.
Batjamin 'J. 'Jtbn/om.
oa. 14
POYNTELL's
Pjper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
IVhtre he has for Sale,
A VERY extetifive stock, of every y>lour, and
of the mofl approved, patterns, luitable sos
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
—J ISO—
A handsome aHortment of the moll fafhiona6le
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very best plain Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety of Borders.
November I. eo6t
Will be Landed,
Feom onboard the ship Adlive, Capt.Blair,from
Hambnigh, #
20 bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale by »
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
NorthFifeh ftreet,No. 34.
Tune 2(1. (.
Imported inthelhipManchester^
Benjamin Shewell, Mafttr,
From Bourdcaux, and for h\t liy the l'ubfcriber,
No. ir Walnut Stieet.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "1
Irilh market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medpcwine, in do. { Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatr&yd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter cafl«
Rota do. do.
Pimeatd in bags
+OOO bulhils Liverpool fait. B
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Fiiciay, the firll of December next, at fix
o'clock, fin the evening, at the Merchants' Co
ffee Houie, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now 01 late in the County of Washington, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and on the waters of
Frelh and Whcelipg Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
Ihefe Lands are fertile and well timbered, aud were
patenteed early in 1787, except 3700 acrep or therea
bout», Which were patented in 179 a. One fourth
of the purchase money to be paid at the time of fa'.e,
f or t he relidue a credit of one, two and three months,
will be given, on interef! an|d good security.
Ofloher 6. 32wtS
To be Sold at Public .Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON F iday, the fir it day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House. in Philadelphia, Twentv Six Thousand s»e
-van Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of between the northern bounds
of Prnnfylvania and the Sufq'uehanna, now, or late,
in the of IIamd«» and Warren, and coun
ty cf Mo«:gomcrv One fourth of the p*rcb%fc
money is to be paid at the timi» of sale ; for ihe ic
liduc a credit of one, two, and thiee months will be
given, on interest and gofd^urity.
Oftoftc 6. gawtS
Peale's Museum.
HIS valuable repository of the works of Na-
X turev so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the undemanding, isopened daily, as •
usual. It Hands in an airy and healthy fituafion,
and free from the epidemic that at present alBi«5U
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatest fafety*
As an Ajyufcment, the study of Nature is the
moll rational and pWting : as a Science, the moil
fub'.ime and inOrufiive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
" Wlum Nature's ivurks can jrbsrm, ivilh God bfmfelf
" Bold wnverje."
Many interfiling additions have lately been
made to this Muftum : a>:d the feathered tribe,
containing a varietyx>f the most rare and beautiful
fubje&s, :s now very advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large a« life (some ofc*hem
carts from nature) are here drefled in their proper
habits, and placed :n attitudes chara&criotic of rherr
refp«6live nations. Here may be seen the North-
Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfthadalc—
with some Nanvsa of the South Sea I (lands, l'he
iinmcnle variety and interesting diversity which
this Mufcum offers to the view, may be fcen b*it
eannotbe dcfcribed with full e£T«A.
Price l-4th of a dollar,
beyt. 18. law
Davit s Latv Book Store,
No. 319, High-Strett.
GEORGE DAVIS,
TJEING bulled for some titne pad in prspara-
Jj tions for removing into his yrofent hcufe, hs»
been uiulerthenL-ceflityo/ poftpuninguntil tliiixiajt
informing the geittlemen olthe Bar generally thro'
the llßited States, that his tyring importation of
law books is now arranged and rczuy W laiie, on
terms that he trulls wilt entitle him to rlialikt pre
freence he has experienced for leveral years poll,
Cataipgues, nom'jining the moll varied cotlfc
tion ever imported i.itu this eountry, are prlMcc?
and will he delivered an application.
June XT- j;w
BoftcSa Glals Manufadory.
'"I'"'!-!?, citizens of the United States are hereby
1 informed, that the manufacture of Window
G afi is now cqnuucnrcd :it the Glals Haufe in Boi
ton.
It i> neetllefs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Ghfs, as it is so well kiynvni
throuyhout tlie to he in every retp< &
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe..
It will be cut to, any iize commonly ulid ; ;uid
o-oy be confrantly had by applying to CiAHLis F.
Kupren. at the Class House.
Orders from the distant States to te addressed to
Mr. Samulu. Gore, Court-street, .'boston.
Boston, Sept 3J, 1797 O 4—2aw',w
M'Jf". Timotlj) and Maj.n, Claris/Ion; 3,Mn.
Ifcigt and Boylan, Halifax, ,V. ( Mitfrs. WMrtt
andO'Cor.yr, NurfJi ; Mr. I-Hit ia ;
Mcffrs.l unit and Erclvn, Haiti,., rc . jtf r .
Nt-W-Tori ; and AJrJrt. 'Baftm if CnoJu in, I'.arU-
Jerd-, Mr. symi,r,S<n>e»nal,: ■ u infirt
tLt ahrat one, a iwl 6 ii/ni,, ]i, a(ttwtU i, .
■m>uni<d tt tie EJktr.