#aptte of AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1597-]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales r
For DRY GOODS.
C Forenoon—Edward Fox, ,No.
fduth Front-street, no
Afternoon—Footman & Co. Na. 65 m<
C South Front-ftre'et. Fr
f" Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City T1
« r , ) Auflion, No. 73 foum Front-street. P"
'Vj Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-ftrect. °
N °" 4 5
<r 1. rri™ S Forenoons-Edward Fox. - r
\ Afternoon—John Connelly,
r • , 7 Forenoon—Willmirf^hannon.
r ' J Afternoon—John Connelly. s
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon. V
THE SWEDISH SNOW g ti
Adolphz, ? n f
Capt. Cms. Wm. R.amt e ; ty
Expeded to fail in all the prufent month—A ™
few tons of Goods are wanted on Freight, and .
will be taken on moderate terms, if speedy appli- 8 1
cation is made. Apply ,t«
Peter Blight.
Back of his new buildings, Dock-street.
Oa 19. , $_ 0
For Freight or Charter,
1 SSsfltx. Dan't/h Brig
Mel Catherina,
Burthen about 160 tons.
THIS vell'el is now ready to receive on board *
cargo, and may be dispatched to any port in Eu- —■
rope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
Apply to the Captain on'board: or to the fabferi- Fi
ber. , JAMES YARD.
OA 19. diet
For Freight or Charter,
TBE GOOD BRtG
S U K E Y,
Isaac Vvedenburg, Maftcr ;
~r;OV7 lying at Clifford's whart.and in compleat
order to recede a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or _.
John Sljriri, (
, No. 81, Arch-street.
WHO HAS FOR SALE, 'J
2000 wt. of double refined Saltpetre
boo wt. of F F GunPowder
300 barrels of Herrings __
<0 bufkels of Timothy Seed
150 cafe?of Claret, firft quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 19- . A JL. r
Antigua Rum, A
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.stive, William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th prooi,
An-i for S*le by
Jehu Hollitigfiuorth is Co.
Wilmington, Sept. ai. dtf I
N. B. The above Brig,
* GAYOSO, are
also f" l ' Slle or Charter » and
• . now ready to rr.-ceive a cargo
on buard, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
j4n elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let aud entered on immediately a jarge ]
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room —the Urged is 31 feet by
•a6—-ind two are so conn«<£led by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be- ]
fides 5 in the garret, welliftnilhcd for servants. ]
There are stables and a houfe, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire »t No. iq,
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
Street.
Aug. 15.
Chocolate and Mustard
1 Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-ca.'k or gallon—-suitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 fobth Front ftreet! l
~ THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAFj
HEREbY give notice, that they have disposed
of tbepwiperty assigned to them for the securing
the payment of the rtote*, acceptances, and en
dorsements given by Edward Fox, for the use
ofthefaid James Oreenleaf; and theJiolders of
such notes, acceptances, and eudorfements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fattle
with them for the amount of their refpeilive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the 20th day of Otflober next;
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of aflign,
Hient.
Applications so be made at fouth-eafl corner
of Dosk and Second streets (the Dock-llreet
tide), between the hours ef eleven and one o'
*lock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jateh Baker.
Philadelphia, Aug'jtf 18, 1797. d I
N O T I C E.
ALL person» indebted to the estate of John
Strikißj late of Tinnecum Township,
Buck'* County, are requested to pay off their
rtfpeilive debts ; and those having any de
mands against said estate, are desired to bring in
their accounts, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, 12 ) Execu
ifALl.ET PREVAIT, ) tors.
Sept. 28. f_iaw4W_
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and Teneriffe Wine
For Sale by
James Tard,
fjo. —, South Fourth-street.
0&. 6. *l™
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 21, 1797.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
\(lf not before disposed of at private sale) H
/"\N Friday, the firil of December next, at 6k *
W o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cos- j Ft
fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine da*
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND, j vc
now or late in the County of Washington, and Com- Nc
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and on the waters of th<
Fresh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.— a {
These Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and were N<
patenteed early in 1787, except 3700 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in 1792. One fourth CVI
of the purchase money to be paid at the time of fal£, s t;
for Ihe residue a credit of one, two and three months, jyj
will be given, on interest and good fccurity.
O&ober 6. 3awtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue, ds
(If not before disposed of at private sale) an
ON Friday, the firtt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House. in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se-
van Hundred and Eighty acfres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna, now, or late, P a
in the townships of Harnden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One fourth of the purchase oil
money is to be paid at the time of sale ; for the to-
fidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, on interest and good ffceurity. ,
Oa*>ftc 6. 3 awtS J u
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than »ny other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the (ingle Bo- or Quantity, may be had at the
ft ore of the Subferibers, corner ot Arch and Fromt
itreet.
'James C. iff Samuel W. Fijher. in
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797. <|iwmw(tf cl
Will be Landed, J
From on board the ftiip A&ive, Capt.Blair,from w
Hamburgh, U
ao bales white Ruflia ckaa Hemp m
s calks Clover Seed j,,
For Sale by w
Thomas Herman Leuffer, bi
ftreet, No. 34.
Tune -26. $
Young Hyson Tea. A
4o chests of 1 superior quality—Alfd, a ,
100 do. of Hyson, tc
Imported in the Woodrop Sims, and for file tf h
the fubferiber, corner ef Second and > Pine tl
street. «
C. Haight.
June n. ' - | , e -
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar c
Shingles of-«'fuperior quality, for sale at 13
dollars per thousand. q
William Hallowell, ■'
No. 193 North Tbird fireet.
July 2J. co 1 it
Imported in the Jhip Pigotl,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Pront-ftreet,
Hyson J
Hyson Skin
Young Hyson (
Imperial J ,
April 20. ,
Imported in the latest arrivals from j
Amflerdam and Hamburg, !and for sale by
B. J. Bohlen,
A large affortmcnt of fine French Cambrics,
Platillas Ruflia mdDotch sailcloth '
Brittannin Writing, poll, and print- 1
Rouanes ' ing paper 1
Brow n Holland* Du'ch calf fklnt
Checks and (tripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznaburgs Looking glaflcs
White sheetings Hollow glafc ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
r Black and whit*laces Tdvs assorted in boxes
Best Holland Gin in pipes
London partieular Madeira Wine
, July 14. m&thtf
e Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases
Tuft received, and for Sale by
Rundle ££f Lteeh.
A«?. 11. " wtf
MRS. G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
d that her house, No. 191, Market-street, will con
g tinue open during the fieknefs.
1- Board and Lodging in a separate room, ten
e dollars, in a doublfc room, eight dollars.
if For the convenience of those gentleman who
e have not thoir 'amilies in town, Mrs. Wrattan
le will receive gentlemen to dine at ham; a dollar
, e a day. Au X"!> *>—' 61
lt juil published,
l'l And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. £3* P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
rr norner of Chefnut and Second-ftreets,^
et An accurate System of Surveyings
IN WHICH IS CONTAINFD,
x. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concise,
and cafy manner.
2. The extradlion of the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, re<£langular and ob
lique.
4. An exa<a method to cast up the contents
of lands.
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use
of scale and compasses, on a table of logarithms.
N In which is given some account of the variation
P. of the needle, and the causes of its attraction,
•ir By SAMUEL MOORE,
le- A own ft * lawtw
in Lately Published,
In one vol. 8 vo. Cprice one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut streets,
A Colle&ion of Papers on the fubjeft of
in Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by AO ///i IVI'BSTER, jun.
Containing letters from DoAors Seaßian, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &e. scc.
Sept. 3*
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
' Philadelphia, 1 viry Tuejtlay, ThurfJay, and Satur-
day, at 3 o'clock; in the trorning.; arrives at 1)0-
I ver the firft day, at Snowhill the fccoml day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the pafiengcrs find
a fafe and tomfortable packet to convey thccnco '
Norfolk. '
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry, Jf
every Tueldiy, Thurfiay and Saturday, and the '
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every n
Mon.'ay, Wednesday and Friday '; puts up at Snow A
Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar. 7'
rives in Philadelphia ill the evening ot the third 0'
day. Kt
The distance on this rout!, between Philadelphia A,
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route Ji
between those places,.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole tare to any r l
passenger, who, after having performed this route, '
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame G
distance, so good a road in America.
Awguft 11. dim, eotf.
Red Port Wine. Jh
Jufl arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from gr
Oporto,
R«d Port Wine in pipes, hhds. attd quarter cases m
6e cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co. u
July 11. 5
CUSTOM-HOUSE,
Philadelphia, Sept. ltd, 1797-
THE Merchants who at this time prefer hav-
ing their veflelt and Merchandize entered and
cleared at Cheftsr or Marcus Hoob, —are here- .
hy notified, That in compliance with their ; ,e - u
fire, and upon a full convifl:on that the measure w
1 will be mutually beneficial to them and to the
United Slates. The colleiflot of tVc cuftoras has
made arrangements to eftabliOi for some time
branches of the cufiom-houfe at those places, ce
where every accommodation in his power will J"
be given to the merchants. diw _ w
" TO BE SOLD, 11
And immediate poffejjlon givtn, ji
A Convenient well finilhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houses, situ
ated in a pleasant part Of the borough of Wilming- -
ton, in the State of Delaware —The lot of ground r
' has forty feet front on Weft-Hreet, and extends
: through the square to Paliure-ftreet, on wkich is p
erected a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30. ______ l 1
City Commijftoners q
.Augufl 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the S«le£ and j.
r Common Councils, passed the J»d day of May last.
Propofals in writing will be received hy the City
Cotnmiflioßers for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for o«e
year to commence the firft day of January next, thg c
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on SaJTafrar,
Mulberry,
h - And High Streets,
Chefnut and W.Wut Streets, Draw Bridge, with
the Scale and Fish Houfts, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much <
_ thereof as fliall be occupied by any buildings ereil
- ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 Jtawim. ]
LOS 1, !
t, /AN the Palfyunk Road, between the Bl»e BaH :
h Vv and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
t- barrel and silver fight; on the plate of the butt are
the letters " Jamaica, Q_ 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock u London" and the lower stamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to John Barnard,
at the sign of the Blue Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
or the oflice of thisQazette, shall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 11. *S (
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
« Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a6t of Congrcfs of the
United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the aßth day of May, 1796 ; laying dn
ti«s on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for bis
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or fdr i s '-
conveyasicc of passengers, the several duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Cl ariot, 1 a dola.
upon every Pod Chariot, la dols.
upon every Post Chaise, x a dols.
al, upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
,n " 9 dols.
upon every Ooachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannel work
above, with blinds', glafl'es or curtains,
k° 9 dols.
upon f»ur wheeled Carriages, having fra-
AR med polls and topi with fleel springs, 6
: dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eryiriron fprinjsor jacks, 3 dols.
P. spun Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
a d, »pen Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
ng, upon Chairs wi(h tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
. upon two wheel carriages, with fleel or
6 ' iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
ife, upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and *ops, and reding up
on wooden spars, 1 dols.
Ob- The Collectors of the Revenue for tho firft Sur
vey of the Diftriil of Pennsylvania, will attend
nts ' daily, until the 30th day of September »ert, for
the put pose of receiving the duties 011 Carriages, at
Gefmantown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
use in the County of Montgomery ; and at the houle
ms . of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
ion of which all persons pofMTed of such Carriages arc
[on _ desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
r., ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi
' "} ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
- cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
0t rituous liquors in less quantities than JO gallons, at
ited f 3me time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised ta grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
,ith Infpeaor of the Revenue of the firft fui
tchl vey of tHt Diftria of Penafylvarta.
Office of Irfpeaion at ")
[t Germantow, 14th Sept. IJ9f- i
Philadelphia, 03. IJ.
THE fubferiber? inform their friends and cuGo- j
mers in town and country, tha* their {lores are now
open in the city, and others ars daily opening:, and -
that from the pre fen t appearance ef the prevailing J
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
ibortly come to the city with perfeA fafcty. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received frefla j
l'upplies qf GOODS. j
Robert Smith iff Co. PW\ Gallaudet iff Co. j
John Davis iff Co. Sit greaves &
Neil I iff Smith♦ George Dob/on, j
IViltbrrger and Smith, Thomas Ryerfov, I
Alex Biljland and Co. T. R. Hardenberg. (
Jacob Sperry and Ho. John Smith and Co' ,
Owen & Jonq. Jones, Thomas Orr, 1
Kepptle C 9" Zantzinger, Willi atn Barker & Co. L
Adark Zantzwger, Thomas Armat iff Son. (
John pries, J. Miller, jdn. and Co. I
Oft". 14- i
Boston Glass Manufaftor)'.
that the manufacture of Window
G'.afs is now compieneedat the Glass House in Bos
ton.
It is needlefa to fay any thing of the excellent (
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known i
throughout the United States to be in every refpcil I
grfeatly superior to any ever imported from Europe. \
lt will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be confrantly had by applying to Charles F. 1
Kuffbr, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr r Samuel Gore, Cburt-ftreet, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30, O 4 —ww<w
Mejfrs. Timothy and Mafin y Charlejlon ; Mejfrs.
Hodge and Boylan, Halifax, N. C Alejfrs. IVillett
and O'Cowr, NorfJk ; Mr. Eltif Prict, Alexandria ;
Mejfrs. Tundt and Brown, Baltimore ; j\dr. Hoplins,
Neva-York ; and Mejfrs. Hudson Goodwin, Hart
ford; Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; are requefed to insert
the qbove once a week 6 weeks. The accounts to be for'
ware-id to the Editor.
Mr. LATLSO N,
WITH an intention to render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, wl * during his absence Mr.
J aymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it
would be wrong in him not to inform those that
are engaged, that it is without his approbation, and
that he will not be in any way answerable for Mr.
Tarmond's engagements
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. tS, X 79- 6t- _
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 17?7>
Present John Hall, See'ry.
Francis Johnfton, R. G. > oflandoffice
Dan. firodhead, S. G>)
Nicholas Bettinger, )
Versus f
Samuel Cunningham.)
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing inefficient, It isordered that notice begiv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
per« weekly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atttend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, to ftiew cause why a patent
ftould not issue to Nicholas Bettinger for the
land in question.
( A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL.
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. is.
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Guftavus Adolphus, from
Marseilles, confiftiog of the following articles,
is difchsrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf*and for
sale by the fubferibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of », 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hoglheads
Ditto, in cases
Frontigniad Wine, in cases ©f 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in balkets of 6
and 1 a bottles
Capers - '
Olives
Almonds
, Dry Verdigreife
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 28, 30 and 31 inches
Taffeties
Long and ihort white Kid Gloves for \V omen
Silk Stockiitgs
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madtafs
' Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
' Perfumery
1 Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
; Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN ,&
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 17. _ cot^
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
' In Carver—for Slitting, Platting. a "d Rolling
Mill*.
It SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
i, THEIR fuperioritj conjijls in being free from
holes and honey-combed places, <w!.icb are com
" monlt found in rollers cast in, find, or clay
6 moulds. Theft patent rollers are cajl in iron
moulds, prcytottjli heated, and will be found to
'* be more dense, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantagi
they have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning,- but are immedaitely Jit for use, ana
from their accuracy, run with less friction, ana
'■ require iefs water to make them perform theii
r work. 1 hey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good■
win, or of, Mejfrs. Thatcher and Hay ward
j. Boston, Aug. 31. Sept. 19. _
r _ This Day is Published,
[j BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and th
other Booksellers,
>r Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
" Elegant y printed on IVcve paper, and Hot
fe prtffed,
1 ; By John Thnmpfon,
re A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of th« several States with each other, and wit
that of the United States: exhibiting in Table
'l' the prominent features of eaeh Confutution, an
claHing together their nioft important provißon
?. T under the several heads of adniPniitration j wit
!" Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
; c _ Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of t!
UoitedStates.
u- Dadicated to th# People of the United States
N, B. A few Copi s printed ot: an inferior p;
per, at 3-4thsof a dcliaf.
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Eiftfi street, corner of North alky, No. 34,
Ehas for sale,
XCJELLENT rc.d Kourdeaux Wine iacaktani
boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in caUsa
Tirklenburgs
Russia .Sail Clotht
( Ravens Duck
Bag Liaen 1
* Hessians
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags v
Common Ger«ian Cloth
Am aflortment of black coloured Ribbons
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family uf<
Window Glass Au*j a13.-7.2w
THIS DAY WAhKJHUaHRU,
And for sale by THSMAS BOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. *J» south Second flreet, v^
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR,THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Candling of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
the and aaiufement of YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVoljimeskandfomely printedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of thefa piecei arc
such, that the book needs only to be known to bs
universally efteerned one of the molt valuable pub
lications th t caD be put into tho hands of young
persons. >
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how tu (hoot.
To pour tl;e frefh inllrutflion o'er the mi ld, I
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
, The gsnereus purpose in the glowing bread."
Thomson.
' August 24. mwf4w
' ~ THIS D,i YIS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS BOBSON, at the Stone Houft,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations, „
' Between several Toung Ladies, on improving and in
teresting fubjeets.
J Tranfiated from the Dutch of Madame dt Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed enfine paper, and nMt/y htunj,
f Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, p«nHtng
tales »f extraerdinary distress, or of deiperate or
p artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of youpg ladies to
be ignorant of, thi» Httle book ceraes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
e ceeding the bounds of real life, th« proper, besaufe
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
eharafler is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real aid attainable cxoel
k»ce. - r
The publisher was fomuch pleased with the pers
fal, that he was persuaded he fliould do a pleasing
- service to the community by fending it into circu-
C latiaii. August a 4
T0 Majlers and PiliAs bringing uf> Vtjeit
y from Foreign Pvrts to this Gily.
" TTTHereas sundry infringements have lately bten
e VV made on the laws of this slate for the pro
venting pestilential or infedtiout diseases, either
frora ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to pttblifia the following ex
tracts from the laws of 13d April, >794, 7th a»i
Bth fe&iont. • -
HEALTH-OFFICE.
m June 6th, 1794.
ExtraS of an aS for /retiring the city and port
' of Philadelphia from the Introdußion of pejli
lential and contagious difcqfes.
e Sect. 7. And be it further enabled, that every
0 matter or captain of any (hip or vessel coming from
sea (velfols actually employed in the toaftmg trade
rxcepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdiftion of Pennfylvania,fha'l cause hisfhip
6 or vessel to be brought to anchor,or othrrwife flay
ed in the stream of the river Delaware, opposite to
the Health-Office on Statt-Ifland aforefaid, arxl ,
there to remain until he (hall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of health from the Resident Phy
sician. Andil, previaufly to obtaining fuoh certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain fliall
fuffer his (hip or vessel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, 0r
en (hall land, catife or fuffer to be Janded, or brought
on ft)ore, at any place or port within this Conv
nonwealth, or at ?ny other pert or place, with the
intent ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandise, or, if after receiving such bill of health
07 certificate, he (hall ncgUA or rcfufe to deliver
the sam» to the Health-Ofl\cer, such matter or cap
tain (hall forfeit awl p.-.y, for each and every such
offence, thFfumof five bunbred dollars.
And the captain or matter of every (hip or vef
fcl shall fend a (afe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and shall in like manner
L_ convey him back to the Health-Office, aftor he hat
concluded his official examination ; And while he
' ie making such examination, or in rase any subse
quent examination by the Heal'h Officer or Con
sulting Puyflcian, agreeably to the directions of
this «&, tflc matter or captain shall expole or fcaulc
om to beexpofed'to thefearch of the itefident Phyfi
-1;;- cian.or of the Health Officer and Consulting Phyfi
lay cian (as the cafe may be) eech andevery part of the
ron (hip or vessel, and shall present to his view each
' to and every perfqn cr persons on board thereof, an 4
'en and fliall also true and fatisfaitory answers make
, ;?1 . tl) all such quettioris as the Resident Phylician, &c.
\j re at the time of examination shall aflc relative to the
\ n J health of any portor place frem which the Ihip of
7a j vessel failed, or has since touched at—the dumber
le j r of persons on board when the lhip o« vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
T fmce been landed or taken on board, and whe«
" and whererefpecftively—what persons on board-*-
f they have been during the voyage, or shall, ac
the time of examination, beinfefled with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent ttite and condition of the persons on board
tlu with relfcit to their health or diseases. And ii
any mailer er captain (hall rcfufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
„ if he lhall conceal any Jicl per/on, or in any other man
rer deceive the proper officers aforefaid in bis anpwcrs,
uch captain or matter, for every such offence, (hall
forfeit and pay the sum of five uvnbeed nok-
LARS.
Sest. 8. And if amy person or persons whatfo
with ever (the Resident Physician, ice. excepted) lhall
bles, go 011 board any vessel, before the mailer thereof
and has received a certificate of hsalth is the manner
ion*, directed, every person so offending, (hall fay the
with um of ONE H»NDRED COLLARS I
IT being abfohrtely necessary that the foregoing
feSions Oiould be punctually complied wit!., the
the fubferiber, in compliance with his ,dtity, nmft ex
afl a rigoroat observance of the (atac, or clfe be
Ltes. mider «h« necessity of pulling the laws in force.
r ' \V«, ALLEN, Health Officer of tU
Pert of I'hiM.lphia.
r f July 14-
[Volume XII.Frtffn the Farmer's e6kly Musbi)m.
From the SHOP of PETER. QUINCE.
A MARVELLOUS ' 0 DA
'Ji/ Ffter is nrnfted by a great p/rfonage : Peter
hiirritth liir'frlf trjay oieifance ; miheth a courteous
ty, Peter h fLi-rely reprimanded; po'keth bit finger
in his M/Vii, •and itfiLkilb off.
WHAT pU'm drefsV, down cist, sober looking,
Or.v footed dame ;
' Withli&ir Ijhe cap "ring goats, that fsek their sol J,
Amlform, |i!.i
Breads 'ike twin ror>, that leap o'er fields of vvht at )
, And j'/i t«!ik,e jewels cunninj and complete—
It that—-good 'rVm-wha niovoi, toward? my (hop.
" [ know not fir."—.Then go and aft h.*> lame
" Tis one Mir. IVifJem as the) ca'l 'er."
Zounds ! —run—kick du^—Scamper—fly ;
Get my heft wig, clean shirt, and suit of fattin;
My Speech cqmpos'dof hebrew, greik,and latin,
And 'tout yottrbufinefs keep a good, fh'rp, eye.
tct no one know who 'tis your mailer's got —
For if you do ; our matters so to pot,
the -wife men willbreak in and rtall *er
JTow, lor a peat address in native tongue,
Such as blind Milton hid from Beelachub,
' Wfjcn th • old raScal meant heaven's law to drub,
And frcavhis grinning, ghadly, demons Sprung.
Kot Jcbnfon, tow'ring o'ervaft hills of speech,
I.'. r nu.de so fine a figure as meet Pe tiTr ;
When to her ladyfliip his hand did reach,
And (he Squat down for him to greet ker.
" I burnt tl/eejL'ell; —thou art of birth divine ;
Though veil'd in fufh dilguiS*,. Thou art
So high, so topning aad of godly dature;
O' rloriking h>ch immenCty of nature.
That neither Adam, Moses, David,
Nor Sampson, (curs'dby being shaved)
Could ever gain the language of thy heart J
Or worlhip freely at thy radiant (hrine. *
" It's trne there was <jne Solomon, a clever chap ; *
But rather amorous and fly—
On whom you cafl a very lech'rous eye,
A 1)4 lent him for a while your gown and eap ;
By which he gain'd admittance 'mong the misses;
Talk'd pert, said smart things to their head ;
Play'd with their (hawls—then treated them with
kisses
And coax'd the little gyrfies into bed.
«' 'Twa«very fineinyou, miliprim—modcharming.
I truly think you a dear Sweet foul;
Equal to Mr. Feote's eood Granny Cole—
Only, in some points, more alarming.
7bou turneft fun, and moon, and flars—«//-*-top
fy turvy;
Poking your nose into earth's Smallest pore,
Unlocking nature's very kitchen door ;
Squinting at ev'ry mole, rock, bill and crater,
And lowly padling in ali forts of water—
That much I wonder you've efcap'd the scurvy.
Sometimes, indeed, we fee you gay and nimble,
Having your mighty head of business f^Il;
, At others, in thy cavity of tall—
There is not fenfc enough to fill a thimble.
Sometimes, likf lion, loud we hear you roaring,
Shaking the very center of creation ;
Fright'ning of earth each tribe, town, (late
and nation; '
' And then again, like 'gentle whisper foft,
TIiQU lifts thy pond'reus head aloft—
But drop'il thy jp hJr ia oblivion's mooring.
This is fine coWuil—Madam —very fine ;
Becuming such a pretty " babe of grace"—
With your long.'solemn. Sanctimonious face.
And pucker'd lips, like faint in song divine.
Was it not you, who drove my coiifin Peter,
To fay the Jacobins had (linking fouls-
Had confcienees av black as coals,
And upderdaudings peaked as a heater ?
If So—by heavens—yeu do deserve a trouncing ;
•Because yon made him tell a monflrous lie.
Potfr well knows, with all their tricks and
bouncing—
They know no more of con/citnce, than a fly ;
Bargain'd awa> their for.ls si me yeara or more,
And took their pay in affigflats and Jlour !
Now, Miss—what think you of your mighty know
ledge T
You never Saw the angel face' of Psarsom !
Who blackguards genius like a whore's son.
And rubs his tailallo'er great Cambridge College.
Was ever you to college, Miss ?—" 'Not long, Sir."
And saw the great white wig, ? heard prayers ?
and Speeches f
41 I fain tie zuig. redfact and pair of iresches-b
---" IVitb all tbefliff pedjntie throng, Sir."
Then, Madam, we mull part—indeed we mud ;
I've certain reafonsof a private nature.
Now gentle reader, call this—" ODE the id."
Andncxt week you fhalLhave the felf fame matter.
PETER QUINCB.
-i d ■
A MEETING
OF the SELECT and COMMON COUNCILS
of the City of Philadelphia, will be held on
Thutfday ru-xt, at eleven o'clock in the morning,
at the State-house.
\ ' By order,
WI.LIAM H. TOD.
Cleik of the Seleil Council.
EDWARD J. COALE,
Clerk of the Common Council
or. jo. dtj6
For SAVANNAH,
TH FAST SAILING lAIP
jgggftr* 1 Swift Packet,
Patrick Gribbin, Mafier.
- NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
" aboveßace-flreet. Is haudfome
ly aacommodated for palTengers, and will fail oh
Cmurday, a ith inft Tor freight or pa/Tage, apply
to the Mailer on board, No. 95, South Frout
flreet, or of the fubferibers, at Frankford.
N. & y. Frazier.
or- 80. dt2Bth
Wants a Place,
AS WET NURSE, a young, healthy Womon,
With a frefli breafl of milk. Apply to the Printer,
oa. 19 3t
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, t>r on
lease for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
Oft. 17. eotf
NO TI C £.
THE Offices of the Department ps War are £or
the prcfent removed near to the Falls of the Scuyk
kill, on the Ridge Road* ,
September 4. dtf
The Health-Office ~~ ;
TS removed to the City-Halh, and is kept open ,
night and day, where persons having bufin« fs may
apply. Wju. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
Sept. 4. * dtf {
Public Notice is hereby given, j
THAT the Commissioners for the Diftridt oi'
Southwark have removed their hall to the house
jformerfy occupied hy Samuel Goff, in Cferiftija at '
6te corner of Fifth llreot. Odt. 2.
Afl laying Duties on Stance 1
Parchment and Papir.
A FEW copjcs of the above ad maybehivd at '
the Office of the Gazet&s of dfe United States, No 1
nj, Cheftiut-Erecfc Jo!y 194 '
X^j v (^ascttCt
r | PHILADELPHIA,
|j SATURDAY-EVENING, Octoc.fr J,.
' | Penn SYLVANIA, Jf.
,; In the name and by the authority of the
| Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
i?r THOMAS MIFFLIN-,
, | Governor of the said Commonwealth.
A'PROCLAMATIOW;
Whereas, the Infpeftors of the Heahh
Office of the Port of Philadelphia, have re*-
ported to me, that in their 1 judgment, it is
. no longer neccflary to impole a general quar
, aitme on veflels arriving in this port, from
any of .the Weft-India islands, from New
Orleans, or from any British, Fi*ench,
Dutch, or Spanish ports on the Maine
Therefore, I have ifTned this proclama
tion, hereby revoking the proclamations
heretofore by me iflued, bearing date the e
leventh and fifteenth dgys of Auguftjaft ;
and allowing and permitting all vefHs what
soever, arriving from any part beyond seas,
to enter the port of Philadelphia', without
beii)g fubjeft to the performance of quaran
tine, unless the rtlfident phyfieian shall on
visiting atiy fnch Vessel, deem the fame to be
in a sickly and dangerous state, when such
reasonable quarantine /hall be performed, as
the Infpeftors of the port (hall direst and
establish.
Given undermyharid, and the great
Seal of the State, at Germantown,
(L.S.) t^l ' t twent ' et h day of OiJlober, in the
year of our Lord one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-seven and of
thecommon wealth the twenty-feconcL
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
By the Governor,
James.Trimblk, Deputy Sec'ry.
A correspondent remarks, that the answer of the
Secretary of State to theSpanifh MiniOer's kppeal
1. one of those complete refutations which leave, no
room for an amplifying idea. It it neat, explicit
and deeifive It breathe, the spirit of an indepen
dent American, and a >ift sense of national, offi.
c.al and personal refpe<a. It will be read with
plcafore by every impatlialmind ; by every citi
zen of the United States who loves his country
with kindred sensations of patriotism and coi-fci
oua dignity.
COMMUNICATIONS.
The freeft and mod pointed animadversions on.
French affairs which have appeared in the gatettcs
of this country, were copied from French papers.
Foreigners may brandish their goose quills against
the United States, but the greatest calumniate;, of
the American charader are the writers in the Au
rora, Argu. and Chronicled. These three papers
have however been lying to very little purpose for
the last five or fix years, as is evidenced by the
numbers of emigrants who continue to flock into
the country. Had any faith been put in the repre
sentations of these fa&ionifts, Europeans must have
fnppofed the people in a state of misery and slave
ry, and the rulers tyrants and monsters.
The representations the characters and con
duel of men in office, as given in the Jacobin ga
zettes, are wholly destitute ef foundation—They
do norlielieve them themfelvci, ths people do not
believe them—if they did, it would beeafyfor
the Jacobins to cempleat their plan of overturn
in the government.
If these lying varlets obtained credit in any
quarter of the Union, infurre&ion would be a
mod sacred duty there.
Volumes of abuse fcavo been written againd the
people,of America, particularly of the eadern
States, by various.ranters of high church and in
tolerant memory. The dribblers never found
their advantage in their publication!—they become
Ihop lumber, at soon as they became extant.
It fecms that former ill fiiccels has not discour
aged them from recent similar attempts at defama
tion. The Editor of The Aurora has found some
precious morceaus for his paper in a late publica
tion of this damp from the pen of a Pruflian.
There is however more fallhood than malignity in
the samples given, but this deficiency is amply Sup
plied by the comments of the tranferiber.
If the Editor of the Aurora wilhes to procure
for his paper, blackguardifmi on the people of
New England, he may be furhiflied with a fcetter
assortment than his Prufliaa author, De Bulow,
can glvf, from a book written more than forty
years since.
The antifsderal faAion have labored for years
to prove that the majority of the people is with
them; notwithdanding which the printers who are
in opposition to the government complain of not
being lupported. Some of the charm ions of anti
federalifm have tried various lituations, without
success, and the profpcA dots ?ot biighten. They
charge their failure to the negleS of the wealthy
ps rt of the community. How reasonable this may
>e Is lelt to themselves to detes-mine. It certainly
is not a very natural expeaation, that they flloul<f
be encouraged in their efforts to undermine that
coMditution and those laws which form the only
bulwark to life, liberty and property. The truth
is, every man who possesses property, or expedts
to acquire it by honed industry, under the protec
tion of just laws, mud he opposed to the antifede
ral fa a ion ; the nlajority therefore is againd them.
After all it mud be acknowledged that some of
these gazettes have been and still are Supported, to
the great disgrace of our country—The means, it
is true, are invifihle ; still they are Supported.—
This number is however small.
A Hint to returning Phuadeiphmns.
■ The return of our fellow-citizens will,
doubtle'fg excite great caution, and every
pofiible exertion ought to be made to pro
cure perfect cleanliness throughout the ci
ty ; but it should be remembered that the
eau(e« of disease generally lurk in hidden
plaees ; mere external purification, there
fore, (though pleasing to the eye) will B ot
dhace away the enemy.
Among the various modes that will pro
bably be suggested, I hope I fliall be par
doned for mentioning one, which, though
by no means new, may not be generally
adopted without a hi*t from some of your
correspondents.
I>t every house-keeper buy half a bushel
of quick lime, let it he pounded fine and
scattered throughout the cellars,
finks, and damp places of every defenption.
I will venture to aflert, that if this could
be uaiveffiflly done at one moment, the
whole city might be completely cleansed in
half an hour.
To persons, tolerably acquainted with
chemistry, this method of imbibing foul air j
will be understood to be infallible; but it •
may not he amife to inform the more nume- j
isds «lass of your readers, that lime is a
stone or earth deprived, by fire, of both air
and moiftuie ; that when in that state it
will attraft to £tf<lf what it has been deprived
' of, as readily as a dry fpwnge will take up
water j and that, by this absorption of the
more weighty and noxious part of the at
mosphere, the remaining part will become
: pure. I have gone into a cellar so very of
fenfive, that not only my nose but even my
eyes fufFered extremely ; but after I had
raised a fog of lime abbut me', the air became
as agreeable as it was'in the street.
I am content that .the simplicity of this
[ address should raise a fmije among philofo
. phers, ii the less enlightened and equally
i valuable part of the community should sol
■ low my advice. SfcNEX.
I '
A young cow of fine years old, brought to opr
( market by Mr. Philip Allbcrger, victualler (at
. Jlall No. 31) weighed as follows, to <tvit .
Neat beef 690 lbs.
i Tallow andfuit 242 I 2
The hide 70
The very extraordinary quantity of fat in
. proportion to the weight of beef will not fail
to draw the attention and furpri%e of the gra
zier and victualler ,* and we publijl it under the
. hejl ajfuranct that the weights are truly given.
Communication.
In the neighborhood of Hoebock-Ferry
are to be found a considerable number of ser
pents of the kind denominated Copperheads ,*
I their bite is very venomous ; the poison diffu
-1 sing itfelf in a short time over a considerable
I part of the body, and producing fatal con
fluences, unlcfs an immediate antidote is
applied. A few weeks since a negro man who
had been at work in the fields of his employ
er, there took up a log of wood on his
shoulder, which was hollow nearly, through
froin one end and carried it home for his
evening fire. His wife and children (as is
usually the cafe in the country) had retired
to reft in one corner of the room, and he
was set down - at the fire, and nearly over
powered with sleep, when he perceived an
enormous snake, of the kind above mention
ed, Aiding foftly out of the aorner just be
fore him. Although powerfully impelled
by fear to attempt its immediate deftruftion,
he knew it would be dangerous to move left
the snake should spring at him. He there
fore remained quiet, and only followed the
motions of th<( serpent with his eyes, which,
(with an ereft head and a noise resembling
the cluck of a hen for her chickens) glided
backward and forward across the room, while
a eat followed the windings of his tail, and
frequently laid her paw upon it, without
heing noticed by *he reptile. At length
the serpent approached the fire again and
re-entered the wood, which the negro per
ceivings lie immediately flopped the aper
ture,' and kindling up a large fire, drew the
log across it, where it remained till the ser
pent was consumed. £ Timt-Piccel ]
Translated for the Ttmb Piecs,
Published by" Phil*? Fr ENEAU.
RefUSions on the principles of the formation of
Political Society.
A Curious political work has made its
appearance in France, in which the author
endeavours tq. support the position that
war has every where been the originating
cause of the firft political affociationj. In
an army behold the type, the rough sketch
of the early social slate ; and. hence, too, is
it, that monarchy has been every where the
firft predominant form of government.—He
distinguishes, in every kind of organized so
ciety, three efTcntial constituting elements,
from the various properties of which are de
rived all the diftinftions of political forms.
These three elements, are strength, or pow
er ; wisdom ; and genius, or in other words
democracy, aristocracy, and monarchy
Whatever may be the formation of a state,
or whatever its political denomination, these
three elementary pringiples ever exist therein,
and more or less preponderate. Power is
ever in the hands of the people, or multi
tude magistrates, nobility, and enlighten
ed citizens, of public spirit, represent wis
dom and sagacity ; but genius resides with
monarchy, or at least in that creative senti
ment of society, sailed legislation, the i
mage of ftipremacy ; or in other words a
king, a senate, a president, or whatever
may be the term of the representation ef the
majesty of aLe people.
Look at an army : the soldiers represent
democracy, or strength; to the officers,
whefe business it is to preserve discipline and
order, is entriiiied the care of regular action.
These are the men who, for own in
terest, slaves to any body that will pay them
for eteifiing in idleness, levy a useless contribu
tion on the indujlrious.
Monarchy lias in all ages attached what- >
ever it found, any thing like genius to itfelf.
It is time the tables were turned. As has
been often asked, what is monarchy ? Evi
dently the conspiracy of the cunning few, a
gainst the ignorant and undefigning many. If
genius is of any worth in the world, it should
evidently turn its attention to the equality of
mankind : of what Common value is ability
while iteontinues enliftedundertheflagoff*vr
felf-interefhd monarchy ?*Let us examine mat
ters right, and we shall find, that the three
elementary principles of all monarchy are
found in what is called an army. - Poor de
mocracy, and uninformed cannon-dragging
animals, are the support of the system.
The general, in an army, is always sup
posed to direst even tb ( e minutest movements
of bodies of men (combined to fight agaiuft
each other, frequently no one knows for
what). From the opinions or ablities of
these generals is the whole army afluated.
Under an abfolute-' general the body of an j
army are enslaved, and, for the most trifling
faults, are led to cruel and degrading pun
ishments ; tortured, perishing beneath the se
verity of a thousand lashes 1 These things
should be done away.
Possibly, from what appears to be the na
ture of mankind, this theory cannot in all
points be supported. However that may
be, legislators should know, that every just
government, and embracing 'the rights of
mankind, should include within itfelf the
germ of its reproduction in point of dura
bility and perfedtion. Such a/yftem should
embrace the equal rights bf every member
of a community, the radical HiCans ,cf na
tional prosperity, and the interests of na
tions with whom a commercial intercourse
ought {o be maintained. Hence, we should
fee the perfection of human society, man
without wars ; and even if he chose to con
centrate his authority -in an individual, or a
body of men,.putting it out of h's or their
power to trample on the multitude and
make them nothang.
The influence *>f reason alone can make
man himfelf, or induce him to aft up to the
fublimity, arili honor' of his nature.
Thi« nature is progressive (beyond all doubt
to perfe&ion) like a rude plant'of.the earth,
whieh is ever improveable. And in the his
, JfOry the human mind, if we do not attend
to this principle of its natural progression to
virtue, we shall find alf dark and gloomy,
and perhaps feel ourselves secretly inclined
to refleft upon' rhe wisdom of the creative,
power, in which there can be no error.
This writer, in the application of his
theory to the business of the world, after ar
ranging jfnd duly weighing all those balan
ces of government, Jo much talked of, con
cludes that a •well adjujled limited monarchy
is the natural government for man. With a
grand and superb ariftocraeyi with an order
of nobility, placed between the monarch and
the people, or their representative. Such a
government (the writer supposes) would
contain within itfelf a check on,the unbrid
led strength of the people, as well asoipon
the feeret designs of ambitious usurpers of
their liberties.
But, in that complicated machine, called
fecial government, the real rights of the ma
ny have ever been facrificed to mere liypo
thefis and theory, and, other abftradt princi
ples that men have never understood or re
lished ; and like the miserable jargon called
law, has served to enslave and corrupt'
them. If man wishes to be free, he miift re
vert to simple principles, and not surrender
himfelf to be deluded with that fiftitious
fluff, that refinement of state policy, which
has ever enslaved him, and degraded his na
ture.
This writer, in advocating limited monar
chy, has not adverted to its abuses, which
have constantly prevented iil amelioration
of the human condition.
From the Western Telegra^he.
Reason suggests that in every govern
ment, theie is an absolute unlimited power, .
which naturally and origiqjlly seems to be
placed in the whole body,' wherever the
executive part of it subsists. This obser
vation holds in the body natural ;* " for
wherever we place the beginning of motion,
wheth»r from the head, the heart or the
animal spirits in genera], the body moves
and afts by acquiescence of all its parts."
This unlimited power placed fundamentally
in the body of a people, is what the legisla
tors of all ages have endeavoured in their
several schemes and institutions of govern
ment, to dtpofit in such hands a» would
preserve the people from rapine and oppres
sion within, as well as violence from with
out. This absolute power was never con
stitutionally vested in the Roman people, as
forae writers have aflerted ; though oftenfr
hly it was, by ending a law, that no per
son should bear any magiflracy in Rome,
without the consent of the commons. Ac
cordingly we find, that the two firft con
suls were nominated by the nobles, and the
nomination was confirmed by the commons.
Their annual ele&ion for fpm« time pro
duced a laudable emulation, morality was
promoted, the most cordial uniou prevailed
and not felfifh pursuits, they were deter
mined tQ. equity and right, not more by
force of laws, than by a natural propensity;
the only ftrife, the only diffentions they ex
ercised, were the public enemy. By
two principal means, valour in war, and
righteous eonduft in peace, they supported
their own reputation, and that of the com
mon weal. But the commons soon began
to feel the effefts of ill-balanced - power.
Harassed with debts, they take up arms
and leave the city in mutiny and discontent,
refufing to return, if they could not bfc ac
quitted of all their debts, and magistrates
chosen out of'their own order, whose busi
ness it should be to defend the commons
from the oppression of the nobility. TKeir
creditors compounded, and magistrates were
granted, whose persons were considered sa
cred. The commons now in their turn,
abused the nobility with a torrent of scan
dalous outrages. They gave themselves up
to precipitate a£ts of vengeance, and in
order to procure it, followed blindfold the
guidance of those who encouraged them to
seek it ; followed their demagogues and
favourites, more dangerous matters than
the grandees of the senate, because impli
citly trusted, and consequently more pow
erful. They became the dupes of every
incendiary, if he were only recommended
by the merit of loudly inveighing against
their former oppressors. Thus they fuffer
ed the brutal Marius, in opposition to the
grandees, to hurt themselves more, and to
bring more disorder and desolation on the
state, than all the grandees the worst and
m'oft criminal, had done before him. But
under our benigntgovernmcnt, no constitu
tional diftinftions subsist. The poor, ho
nest, sensible man may a£t in a legislative
capacity, if chosen by his fellow citizens.
Let us then remember, that our strength
and happiness consist in unanimity and na
tional affeftion, and "forbear to create a ge
neral disquietude by forming ourselves into
visionary parties.
MODERATUS.
- * Swift upon government.
The Medical Leftures
In tbc University of Pennsylvania, arc pnft
poned until the last Monday in November
next.
Odlober T4. gaw<w.
HI r f lIIMIMIII Ml , 181111 u, K
NEW-YORK, Oftober j7,
A friend has put into our hands copies of
the papers relating to the (hip Ann and'Su
fan, Richard Weft, mailer, of New-York
lately condemned at Curacoa. The fub
ilance is as follows.
The firll paper is a copy of thfe memori
al of Stephen Kinglton of Philadelphia own
er of the (hip, to the governor and council
of that island, in which he slates, that hd
contradled with the French minister at Phi
ladelphia, to tranfpbrt to France a number
of French prisoners, who had b<?en takefi in
to Halifax by the English. For this pur.
pose he fitted'out his fliip the Governor
Hamilton of Philadelphia, and carried 243
pcrforis fafe to l'Oritnt. That he purchas
ed at Bourdeaux the fliip Ana and Susan,
and failed from thence December 8, 1706,
for Philadelphia. That he was forced by
stress of weather and heavy gales of wind, to.
put into the nearest port, and made Marti»i
co, where he landed his cargo to repair his
veflel, and finding his cargo in demand there,-
he solicited and obtained permiflion to
from thence he failed for Philadelphia, and
was taken by the privateej- Le Pandour,
fapt. Garrifcin, fitted out at that island,
and commanded, as he was informed by a
citizen of the United States, contrary to
and >ll direst violation of the treaty between)
Holland and the United States,
Mr. Ivingfton proceeds to state in his
memorial, such, fafle and arguments as he
judged most proper to induce the govern
ment of the island to interfere and procure
a releafc of his ship. He mentions that the
Batavian Republic and the United States
art at peace, and that by treaty the parties
are bound to prated* each others trade in
their rgfpeftive ports—that the proclama
tion of Viftor Hugues was issued in Februa
ry, when he was repairing his vessel at
Martimeo—and' that making that his
port was by the aft of God, for which
he could incur no liability to seizure, and
there was no decree of the French command
er prohibiting veflels failing from Britifli
ports ; and that he being altogether igno
rant of any prohibition, could not irt jus
tice be within its meaning. This memorial
was dated April nth.
On the 21ft of April Mr. Kingston made
a econd representation t& the government
or Curacoa, in which he urges that VidW
Hugues having been recalled and refufino
to obey and resign his government, could
no longer be considered as lawful governor,,
nor could his afts be valid'; and that citi
zens of the United States who might fuffer
in consequence of his orders, would claim
full compensation. He remonstrated against"
the permiflion of French privateers to be fitJ
ted out in Curacoa, to cruize against the ci
tizens of tire United States, at peace with
the Dutch republic. He mentions that the
commifllon of the Pandour dated at
Curacoa, and also that of the fchr. Char
maiite Maria, Don Pedro Martin, com
mander.
The Dutch goversraent at Curacoa, on
the 25th and 28th repjied, that they had
taken Kingston's memorials into corifidera
tion : That they were informed " that Jean
Baptifle Tierce, agent of the French repub
lic, was authorized to make condemnation
of prizes, w. >ut the concurrence of the
government of that island, and that he in
tended to exercise that power ; they there
fore had resolved to leave that business
wholly to the French agent that all the res
ponsibility might fall on him atidthofe who
had authorized him. M They however sent
the memorials to the said French agent in'
sure itliance that he would do what was
right and just. f
In consequence of this answer, the mail
ers of American veflels in Curacoa, present
ed a memorial to the governor and council,
111 which they charge some of the members,
as well ?s the French.agent, in being con
cerned in the privateers. We give this me
morial entire, as folldws :
TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR,
And t!<cgmtUmcn of til Council t/thc iJUrd of Curate*.
The memorial of the fubfenbers citizensof
the United States of America, on behalf
of-themfelres and other citizens intereiled
therein,
Respectfully Sheweth,
That they have seen with equal sorrow
and ! urprize by the answer of your honora- x
ble body, to the felicitation? of their fellow
citizen, Stephen Kingston, one' of' the sub
scribers, that " all captures are referred to
the deeifion of W. I. B. Tierce" (agent)
who is well known to the members of your
honorable body, to be concerned in the priva~
tcer; and that having all been brought in
by cruisers fitted out here, and in some
cases owned chiefly by members of your
honorable body, (in particular by Mr. Bri
on,'Mr. Van Eck, Ringhin and Mr. Steigh
lin) in violation of treaty stipulations, your
beg leave colle&ively to re
present
That the fchr. Be-tfy of Boston; late capt,
Sturgis, has been brought in here by a pi.;
rate (nowhere) not having a r«mmi!lion,
and that the whole crew arerriifling ! 1
That Le Pardour, capt. Garrifcan, £,e
Horifon, capt. Pilote, L'Altiance, captain
Piere Margin, L'Eliza, capt. Du Pin, L'
Hiondcllt, capt. Cadet, Le Bayonefe, capt,
I. Baptifte, and Le Nottigeur, capti Lom
bard, have all been fitted out here, the lafl
having the quarter deck guns of the Dutch
frigate Ceres, laying in this port, and that
for all captures made, or that raay be made
by any of them', the United States will nat
urally expeft payment of the full value (not
what they may be facrificed for here) and
damages from the Batavian republic, and
tnat afterwards this island, or perhaps your
own honorable body may be called upon to
make good the fame—
That by the decree of condemnation of
the brig Lady Washington and cargo, by
a tribunal at St. Domingo, received this
day, it appears that his excellency the gov
ernor of this island, " confirmed' by a cer
tificate in form" dated the 25th March lafl,
the proceedings had here thereinThat iti some inflpnees cargoes have been
taken out and fold (here, though not vet
condemned even by the agent —
That under those circurrfftances and con
federations your memorialists look forward
for ultimate redrtfs, and therefore pray
your honorable body, that the money of
every vefiel or cargo fold, or that may be
isild, be placed in fafpty to wait the ilTue of
their refpeflive appeals,your memorialists be
ing fcverally determined to appeal as hereby
they do appeal to national negociation, and
to the superior courts of jultice in Holland
and Spain, against the proceedings and de- I
■terminations had, or that may be had here I
tb such effeft against your memorialists, fo-1
Jemnly protest, that so the nioiicy may not J
be divided as prize, but as far as it may go, I
await the appropriations of ju ft ice 1
Praying the premisses to be taken into)
your consideration, yeur memorialists remain I
rcfpedt fully, &c. &c. &c.
Curacoa, 12th May, 1797.'
(Signed by)
Jos. Brown', of Fame of Portfmouth.from j
Grenada home. /
Mr. Gerrilh, of Lady Washington, of I ■
Newburyport, from Barbadoes to America. I
B. Lunt, of Gideon of Deer Iftand, To- j 1
bago, home. I t
.J. Rodijers, of Nefter, of and fyom Port
land to Trinidada. I 1
/ , S. K. owner,, for R. Weft, master, of Ann
and Susan of New-York, from Martinico j 1
to St. Thomas and Philadelphia. f
Samuel Carzill, of /loop Sally, of Wif- C
caflet, from Demarara home. I v
B. Lawrence,-of fchr. Citizen of Nor
folk, from Martinico home. I o
Zeb. Hunt, jun. of Orange and, Free- I *
town, from St. Lucia to Providence, R. I. si
T. Dennifon of Aftive of Norwich, tak- ' w
en-at an ach*« in Porto Rico, Ky L'Hiron- I
' delle and retaken off Curacoa by an iflanjj
armed brig of government, sent in and giv
en again to the French.
James Rta.of ftUr. Richmoud, of Charlek
ton, from Trinidad home.
Hez. Trueman, of Esther and Eliza.of
Norwich, from Tobago to America.
W. Higgins, of Isabella, of East Had
dam. ca
Wm. Bass, for Stephen Gardner of ship bo
Nancy of Boston, from Cape Good Hope,
borne. ,
- Pc
.PROVIDENCE, Oa. 16.
Communication. (S
All who have any taste for improvement
in the Machinery used in Manufa<£hires,
mtift be highly gratified by viewing the gin-
diflillery belonging to col. Daniel Tilling
-1 baft, late of this town, erefted at Uxbridge '
the present season, under his own dire&ion.
—1 he work is all done under one roof, and ' on
may literally £be said to be done by water.
The water used in the cisterns and worm *
tubs is conveyed through a log, fr«m a '
small but never-failing pond, raised for the
purpose of grinding the grain, and moving re P'
the other machines.—The liquor is pumped 1
—■ from the citterns into the ftil.'s by water 1!
the liquor in the Stills and cisterns is (lirred , ?
by w iter—and the grains, which run from Es(
the ft ills into a cistern, are pumped by wa
ter into the trough in front of the cattle.
—The Machinery is so fimple'as to be easily
, tinderftood, and is hardly liable to get out P°. n
of order. If we compare this mode of do- t ' lls
ing the buiinefe with that which is some- f onl
times used, the contrast appears very ftrik- ln
ing. The grain is generally ground by t,lis
horses, or carried Miles to Mill—the im
mense quantities of water used in the cisterns a "?
and worm-Tubs, are frequently pumped by Wl '
horses from a deep well—the liquor in the rc P u
ft ills and cisterns is stirred by hand—the li- ! co
quor is pumped from the cisterns into the ,
stills by hand—and the grains for the cattle
are pumped by ha»d. In a cauntry like
this,where labour is scarce and dear, every ..
improvement in Machinery for saving labour ,! c ''
in adding so mych wealth to the nation.
_ . J ca
By this clay's Mail. Ma . r(
, whic
NEW-YORK,. October 02. ? he v
We are Informed that the troopj under the com- ,n co
fnand of lieutenant Marfchalk, on Ellice's Island, iTI
are under marching ordi-rs for ¥ort Mary, on the order
Miffiflinpi—lt is expected they will fail for New- j n
Brunlwick on Monday next, whence they will pro- ft
eeed on their march. .
Or. the 26th.ult. His Majesty's ship Experiment, f, ' es
capt. Saville, failed from Halifax for England. In Some
this (hip went paflengers, I.t. Col. Layard, Lt. and tl
Cel Wetheral, Mr. James Kidfion, and others—- to (j,,
Also, tlie remnant of the sth Regiment of the I- ,
rifli Brigade, by capt.Gerajhty, late- raa " e >
ly from the Weft-Indies. hand
T-he following is re-printed from a paper of 1793, only I
and, as four years has Cnce elupfcd, our reaoers but b
will fee how the prophecy has thus far been ful- f rom
filled—and from thence what faith is due to the t?
future : *- uro ]
INTERESTING PROPHECY. th ! n P !
" The following was handed n6, in print, own '
by a gentleman lately from London. It is " "
iprefented to our readers as we received it, as
a support of their faith in the Millenium, B}
■which ? we hope can be supported by scrip.- At hi
ture-reafon, and the opinions of pious men, The
that it will come and the time soon—
[l ThefT. V. 20, 27.] ANNI
" dear Contaii
" EVER fond, as I khovv you are, of ' p
what is curious, I have sent you a copy of
a remarkable prophecy, lately found in Pa
ris, and transmitted from a gentleman there, E>
to his friend in London ; who writes, that one ol
it was engraved on a slag-stone, two yards
square, in ftebrew characters, and very ele- °' '
gantly inlaid wjth gold. It is supposed to \\T «
have lain near 600 years, under an old wall,
taken down,by the late king of France, to
be rebuilt, * On removing the rubbilb from
the foundation, this stone was discovered.
" Permit me to aflure you, thkt I heard j
it from a man of very ftri& veracity and ho- J0 p
nor, who is expert at Hebrew, and on whom Oift.
I can rely for tha truth of the cireumftance. 'jn
A 8 it predifts a most glorious and universal
'evolution in i3co, I heartily
you on the welcome news. Id® expedt Sept
C an^tf3 w;il tafee herp; The
aot yet M.lJenmm win s oon come, I have been long
j latisfied inr my own mind ; may you and I
d eon- prepare for it. O may we live to fee the
orward really Ill u ft riouß Defendant alluded to;
. pray I who, if this be true, mtift be now alive, past
ley of j '"fancy probably in Europe; perhaps in
nay be J
Hue ot affectionate frierid and servant, '
iftS K e " „n, t B. HA WES.
lereby «IN the year 1790, there will be a re
n and bell,on against the French King; and when
olland the present Pope dies, there will be no o
nd dc- thar tle&ed.
1 here "In the year 1791, there will be a war
.s, lo- amongst matiy of the Europ«fan powers a
y not gainst France.
i y S°> " 1 79 2 > more of the Christian powers en
gaged in the war.
into " 1 the war encreafes thoughout Eu
cmain rope.
"1794, there will be a few or no forms
of religion observed 111 France.
" 1795, there will be a deftru&ive difu
,from nion am'ong the powers of Europe.
" 1 79®» there will be a great ftaughter,
1, of aad much blood-lhed, by land and sea.
nCa ' at" will appear a Gog and . ]
To- Magog*, that will make war against all na
tions in the world. I
. ort- ' 1798, there will be a great deftru&ion
that will thin the inhabitants of the earth.
~n '799> there will come a Dcfcendant of
nico David, who will perform such Acb ofGrace
from the power derived from Almi'ghtXr
iVif- God, as to deflroy Oog and Magoc*—and
will eaufe, in
or - " 'BOO, the remnant of all nations to be
of one religion, and no more wars among
ree- «nen, who will be forever after in bonds of
.I. fnendfhip, equality, and unfeigned love to
tak- wards God and one another.
0n " , * Magog. I apprehend we mar •
,n 8 " n | [^ a " d the °P cn an d fecretenemi-s of evange- ln
jiv- ilcal l'oerty and equality, or ol genuine chriftianitv '»
th
BALTIMORE, Oa. 18.
of
I of BOARD if HEALTH.
burials
ad- P ar ' Baltimore, heretofore
called the town—for the last twenty-four Tl
hip hours—ending this morning at fun-rife :
pe, 3. Adults, , Child.
Burials in (he east part, called Fell's
Point, &c. including the Potter's Field : *
. 4 Adults, D child. me
(Signed) Joseph Townfend, clerk.
>nt Oftober 18.
es * ■* ■■ 1
in- Th . e fo, . ,ow ' n g gentlemen are elea«d Repre- of
g" fentaives and Sheriffs, for the annexed
gt counties : an 6
in. Dorchcfttr—Charles Gold/borough, So
nd lomon Frazier, Richard Patterfon and John bui
:r. efquires, representatives. !
•m I Ca P ta,n Richard Leake, fheriff. 1
a Caroline—John Bennet, John Young, and
be J ohn M; tchell and William Potter, esquires, I J
representatives. 2 1
■d Dekar Thompson, flicriff. miL
, d Marriedlaftevening.SYLVANUs Bourne, I
Esqj, to Miss Recicca Haslett. . I
a- 1 \ lbs.
CHARLESTON, Oaober 4. S
' We are informed that citizen Viftor Du- J
it consul of the republic of France in
'bis eity, has received his appointment of J
.. consul-general of the Republic, to reside bust
.. in Philadelphia :heisto be succeeded in J'
y. this state by citizen Scherer, brother to Ii
. g ene ral Scherer. A new appointment is J:
s also made: Citizen Bofc is to reside at The
Wilmington, N. C. as vice-consul of the m
f republic so* that state. Citizen Mozard, fe
consul of the republic at Boston, is to be 3^
e succeeded by citizei Geroult. quar
e veal,
e Messrs. Freneau & Paine, flour
As I think all works tending to the pub- E
r lie benefit (liould be encouraged, I take the Sj
liberty of noticing the following : 30 d
On my way from Santee, the other day,. T
I called in at the plantation of William Je
Marshall, esq. to fee his Tile Works, of Ri
which I had heard. I was contlufted to /übfc
the works near the landing, and fouud them at Bi
. in complete operation. R<
, \They appear to be conduced with great J4i
order and aftivity, and the people employed B.
in it appear to be matters of the business. Ai
Ihe clay is of a superior quality, and the hands
tiles are very fine, and of a large size. Ca
Some excellent pottery has been made here, Ca
and they are preparing to go extensively in
to this branch. There are a great number
made, and the four moulders turn out of 0<!
hand a great many in the course of the day.
It is certainly a manufaftory that will not To th
only be very profitabh#to the proprietor,
but beneficial to this country. Tam told, sir
from a specimen in town, they are equal to ' 1
European tiles, and why import, these and tl
things, when we can have them of our gazet:
own ? A SUBSCRIBER. are ut
J ' L. My
JuJi Publtfhed, and now Selling, cowar
By BENJAMIN DA VIES, tice 0
At his Book-Storf, No 63, High-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND * :
ANNUAL REG rSTEKftr ibt UNITED STATES one of
FOR THE vr-AR <798 : Gazet
Containing complete and correal lifts of the Execu
tive, I egiflatiye and Judiciary n0 11
DEPARTMENTS or GOVERNMENT, miftak
And a variety of ufelul tables, ncceflary to be advert
knpwn in every State of the Union.
EmbelLijhed with two baidjbme Engravings, T)j.
One ot which is depi&ive of a melancholy scene
that occurred during the American war Vl
Oft. 18. will en
"» class w
Walker & Kknnedy, in gby
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
ioo Hogfheids of prime Georgia Tobacco, ' Gener;
y ALSO,-
50 Pipes of Bonrdeanx Brandy, G A Z.
10 Pipes of old Port Wine
' - iawtf. PC
THE MAYOR'S OFFICE
IS KEPT, FOR THI PS ESENT, AT TBS
CITY HALL. Ship B
S'Pt S. Sloop
I
"and"! Xf)o
res-the " —--a- /
d to . PHILADELPHIA,
e.paft SATURDAY EVENING, n<T, BtR , T .
Ips in ' ' ' 1 ;_ ■- :
your
CITY HOSfWTAL REPORT,
( From 20th to it ft OA. in tfie morning.
iS. Admitted, since lalt report,
: a re- J ames Wood—Margurk'si, Bth below Chef
when OM st reet.
no o- Died since last Report.
when admitted I hovv lon ? iIf P revi
* war „ , , I 0113 to admittance.
;rs a- Hugh McMullin, sth in ft', unknown.
J—etitia Hall, 13th 3 days *
•s en- Cath. Buchanon, 13th 11 do.
e ggy McDonald, 14th' 4 do;
;Eu- an id McKtnzie, rjth 6 do.
urms Rcr nai«i']g last report ,»
Admitted since j
difu- _
' v'
iter, Discharged None
D'ed 5 ,
/•"d Remain in Hospital. [ C°nvalefcenti2l
[ nat 21
Five of whom are dangerous.
rion erred since last report,
h. From city and suburbs 4
t of Hospital
race ■
Total g
and . Stephen Girard.
(Signed) Caleb Lownes.
' T> ii-i John Connelly.
ong üblilhed by order of the Board, -y 4
so s Wh. MONTGOMERY,
to- Chairman pro tem.
public are congratulated on cjiepleaf
ijre- ! n S cireumftanee of the number of deaths
i ty 111 the city'having diminished to,perhaps let
than the usual ratio.
The onlyintermentsln the Burial Grounds
of ths City, since onr lalt Report, are
1 Adult.
1 Child.
j re
, ur The following donations wer« received since
our last publiaption, for the use of the
p«or nt the tents.
I's Fromf Ben jamin Nones, 1 tierce of rice.
: Richard Peters, Esq. bacon, bttad, iudian
meal, cabbage, bean and milk.
Francis Johnson, 1 quarter of beef.
Robert Anfley, 1 bullock.
Caleb Lippencott, New-Jersey, 1 cord 1
e- of wood.
■d Isaac and D. Jones, 1 1-2 cwt. sugar, 1
and a quantity of coffee. - j
0- John Clenin, Berks county, 1 keg of r
in butter.
Shubart Armitage, 1 load of straw. -
Richard Wells, a quantity of potatoes t
j, and straw.
s, I John M'Elroy, 11 bushels of potatoes, r
21-2 bushels of B. meal, and 5 gallons of h
milk, beets and carrots. 0
l'rom the inhabitants of Darby. t
', Richard Floyd, 4 half bhls. flolir.
. Edward Home, 3 bushels potatoes, 4 I
lbs. butter, and 22 lbs. beef. d
Samuel Ath, 1 fide beef, 270 lbs. ft
John Hurt, 1 quartsrdo. 125 do. f a
n Aaron Oakford, 1 d<£ 135 do. ti
f Jonathan H?ycock, 1 sheep, 45 lbs. 1 hi
e bushel turnips, and straw.
1 John Rively, 6 pairfhoes.
> Isaac Oakford, 5 bushels potatoes. A
5 Jacob Serrell, 1 cwt. middling,
t The inhabitants of Radiier, collected by Si
: meon Matlack, Nathan Evans, and Jo
, feph Hoflcins, as follows. te
: 34 bushels potatoes, 4 bushels turnips, te
quarter beef, 7 quarters mutton, 1 quarter yc
veal, 14 fowls, 27 lbs. butter, 70 lbs. rye co
flour, 3 bushels B. meal, 4 cwt. fndian do., g]
Enoch Edwards, 18 bushels potatoes. nij
Samutl Coates, 40 pair shoes, valued at in]
30 dollars. _ hi!
Thomas,Parker, I load of straw. ti«
Jeremiah Warder, 3 fat cattle. as
Richard ♦'oofman aod Isaac Jones, the pri
.fubfeription of a number of citizens residing as
at Burlington. Dolls, 358 20 pa
Resolve Smith, Southwark, 50 flic
J4mes Stewart, jun. 30 are
B. Sims, ' 40 wb
Andrew Kennedy) through the! _ eri
hands of Archibald M'Elroy, j" 5° an
Ca <\ ' 40 for
Captain William Jones, -50 not
Published by order of the committee, ha<
, JAMES OLDDEN. as]
O&ober 20, 1797. • thi
rat
To the Printer of the Merchants Daily Ad- I t
ver/ifer. f of
SI R , cr ; (
Please to inform the writer of Cenjor, Ho
and the public, through the rpedium of your tak
gazette, that his calumnies refpe£tißg me, the
are utterly groundless. it v
My contempt for this ftab-in-the-dark ber
coward, forbids me to add any further no- a w
tice of him. c i; n
John Ward Fen no. by
thir
*** The vvord Printers which concludes" wot
one of Doftor Ross's notes in Thursday's I
Gazette, is in the original " parties." The fpre
note is written in a confufed hand, and the tanc
mistake in transcribing tnlght have been in- one
"adyerteutly made by any person. coni
> feve
D*. Belknap lies ready for the press ano- u,,
ther volume of American Biography, which nuns
will engage the attention of that numerous ed t
class who belt relish Philosophy, when teach- kiifc
ing by examples. take
feivi
DIED—At Vienna, on the 2th of July, ing;,
General Wurmser. mor
wits
GAZETTE MARINE LIST, X
PORT OF PPIIL.ADF.LPHIA. ?<ffc
A 1 e3<
Arrived at the Fort yejlerday. 'that
Ship Boson Packet, Tem, ant. Bremen c\ll (
£ fftrvjfcy '«■. - -■, Port-aii-Prince | pou;
1 f . Nctu-lori, Oil. 20.
' Parl " r > Bolton 10
The fchoaners Suninnah, Lady Wentviorth,
and Liberty, have arrived at l/a!ifax from
I Quebec ; and the schooner Three Sifters, failed
•R 51. \ from Halifax for Quebec.
== 7 hefchoonef Jcrufha, GUIs, from Briflol,
-rnV Il* 1 ia^rn y fiwnodore Barney, retaken
g- J by the Britifb, and carried into the Molt.
, r , p I . Britifb armed bri s Earl Moira has ar
j rived at L\hn from Haifa*, after a lon,
\ p.if/age.
■previ-1 Norfolh, Oct- 14.
.IT I , arrived the fr,op Dfpatch, ca P t.
'• I rc "f r , 20 days from St % Bartholomews brirrrs
I 7'rj Leftlh ? rc the Mooner Macctes-_
I 11 two "<v* for this port.
I 67,fpoie the sloop Nan-
I cy, Minor, out 32 'daysfrom New-Tori to j;
I 'Jacqvemel, in want of water, with which fut>-
37 I plied him. \'
J'j Charlestohj, Oflober 6. !
I TV/rT C^er^ n 's" Heltna, Kock, i
Malaga, days ; brisr LouiTa, Seigerbcrg, c
1 2 wa b tT gh ' 104 d^ S ; . Ann and Sufa "> c
f33 I u Honduras, in distress, out 29, davs, v
J I bound to Philadelphia ; fcho6ner Mark An-
I thony, Raymond, Wilmington, 12 davs;
schooner Esther, Pease, Nassau, 24 days"; fc
4 I brig Sup, Haar, Bremen, 128 days; v
5 j Gute Erwarts, Von Printz, Hamburgh, a
I r < }f ys ' P Merc,,r y» Roberts, Naf- t<
9 j fau ; sloop General Greene, St. Nichoh tl
Mole, 11 days ; brig Hannah, Kenny, St. 0
Ihomas's, 57 days, in distress, bound to
| .Philadelphia.
' J . Th « Mercury, (which was ta'kcn fomc p
I time ago on her palfage from the Havannah p
1- I to t" l3 port, by a privateer commanded'by J l:
I ca pt. Coppinger, and released, and after- ] v
leaf- wards again taken by the fame privatrtr, 'h,
ath, bound with the fame cargo, from this port «
' lels I for Hamburgh) arrived at the Fort vefter- I
1-day, from New-Providence, her cargo hav- f„
1D in S be<ftl condemned there, on the pretext P <
of »n? of the shippers residing at the Ha- ~>
vanoah.
I c P*' ot boat Lucy, Prince, which was a !
I carried in to Nassau by a Providence privateer, | ]- l( |
nice I after two days detention was permitted to
the proceed on her voyage to the Havanna. c ; t
The sloop Phenix, which failed from this 0 u
-• port for Carthagena about fix days ago, has D i.
returned, having sprung a leak. - rj
The ship Ann and Susan, Richard Weft, a <sl
master, which arrived yesterday from the Nc
• j Honduras, put into this port in wa
3rd distress. On the 26th of Sept. in lat. 27. me
just after entering the Gulf, capt. Weft met pr ;
ar, with a severe gale of wind, which lasted 8 nol
hours; his mizen mast, kead of his main- hei
of mast, and maintop-mast, were iarried orer- f ua
board, and his ship received considerable da- to
"aage in her hull. She belongs to Philadel- pu ,
)es phia, and was bound there. After the gale c hc
capt, Weft saw a ship vrtiich had loft all her wa
es, ms(l8; and n brig and a schooner, which out
of had each loft a mast; from a disabled state loft
of his ship, he could not speak to either of one
them.
Capt. Weft brought in with him Gapt.
4 David Edwards, of the ship Salter of Lon
don, and his two wiates and carpenter; this ]
ship was loft a short time before capt. Weft the
faded, on Glover's Reef, abput 15 leagues !
to the N. E. of the Bay of Honduras, on
1 her pafTage from London to that place. '
FROM AN ENGLISH PAPER. ,
A Letter from a fucccfsful Adventurer in a
lottery.
ii- sir, ' I"
a- You will not be at all surprised when I ! tl?e
tell you that I have very ill luck in the lot- .^ e 1
s, tery ; but you will flare when I further tell
° r you, it is because unluckily I have got a
'e considerable prize in it. I received the 2
. glad tidings of misfortune last Saturday Tt
night from your Chronicle, when, on look- f
it ing over the lift of prizes, as I was got be
hind my pipe at the club, I found that my -
tnkct was couse up a 20001. In the pride
as well as joy ofmy heart, I could not help Atf.o,
e proclaiming to the company my good luck, natty
g as I then foolifhlyi thought it, and the com- ' ri °">
d pany thought it too, by i n fifti, lg that I
fliould treat them that evening. Friends '"Ij"
are never so merrj-, or stay longer, than o'ck
when they have nothing to pay ; they nev- l " J S''
er care how extravagant they are on such "
an occasion. Bottle after bottle was there
fore Galled for, and that too of claret, tho' Plains
not one of us, I believe, but. had rather have vtU„,
, had port. In short, I reeled home as well fimviJ
as I could about four in the morning-}' when r 'V'"
thinking to pacify my wife, who began to '"f"',
tC , ! I n V 3S u^ua ') f° r Raying out so long, )
■ I told her the occasion of it ; but instead ,
of rejoicing as I thought she would, she
cried, " Pish, only two thousand pounds !" f ,om tl
, However, she was at last reconciled to it, fy'j'
■ takingparejto remind me, that she had, chosen „„j
the ticket herfelf, and she was all along ftire *fortfa\
it would come up a prize, bccaufe the (ium- "" cr i""
ber was an odd one. We neither of us got ™""" L
a wink of sleep, though I was heartily in
dined for it ; for my wife kept me awake, numhr
by tell in;;, me, of this, that, and t'other, mill, in
thing, which (he wanted, and which she * r f
• would bow purchase, as we could afford it. ar! f° r,i
I know not how the news of my success
spread so soon among my other acqu&in
tance, except that my wife told it to every sforefui;
one fye knew,or not knew, at church. *The r 4 ll >-«
confequeoce was, that I had no less than £ rmiU >
seven very hearty friends come to dine with a*Zail
u„ by way of wifliing ns joy ; and the "N. 1
number of those hearty friends was inereaf
ed to above a dozen by supper time. It is
kiifcj in one's friends to be willing to par- I
take of one's success ; they made them
selves merry at my expence : and at part- OF '
ing, told me they would bring me force
more friends and have another jolly evening th»Te u
with rae on this oceafion. Labora
When they were gone, I made fhift to —r—
get a little reft, though I was ofteh disturb
ed by my wife talking in her sleep. Her TH£
head it ie»ms, literally ran Upon wheels ;
■that is, the lottery wheels ; she frequently toriol .
- c died out that she had got the ten thousand Sj
, pounds ; (he muttered feyeral wild and in-
V
J o 'io esprefficns aboUt £ wns ru«4
,/ f" d f >-nn g 3, and necklaces f and lon Hi
„ ' beard her mention the word In Uw
,/X
_•/ P'. lnters exaftmy me to the diffi
» r
°" S tnv And J7- W the ajifi^Vrpm
hiy good fortune began to po.u- in thick up.
on me. In consequence of the information
t/« rV'T t V ,eU ' spa P er ' we wer * no fooncr
"</'• fat down to breakfafl than w, were comnll
izlrv tv stfit
'"lf'f We J. ad be ";•>« married : after theft
Nan th ih e "I r r y usual method, ano
rh to ' f i' muflC saluted " s with a peal
J rut, r r ° m 6 marr ° W and cle " cr s to the
I w,7h - 7" harrafl " ed the w hole day
I *«h petitions from the hospital boys that
, drew the ticket, the commissioner's clerk#
ock a / r -down the ticket, and the clerk,
Zl' S ' ° fficC Where 1 the ticket, all
fan' fj™ P [ " That m 7 Honor would
ay ' !?• f l 1 glad you
"ays, uould inform me what these j»eople would
An; have given me if 1 had had a blank.
Z ' I"now a t qUa, " tan< ? ;n S enera l called to
; ys , Lnow, when they (hould wait upon me f„
X and T » my R f°' <! f 7 tlmC ' M r own relations,
4f' t Wlfe 3 relations, came in such shoals
boh J? ■7 nßrat ? that 1 hard! ) r tne W
S on ®vf many °f them. One infilled
Ito 2 7 ° P T, of P J ' te t0 wife ;
pother recerr,mended me to put his little
jmc '° y fWO a " d f ? m ' etb cousin) out ap
-2 r v c v • nother ' wh ° !ate, >-
bv f w r° me my fett ' n g Ilim "P again in
ter- Ivlml and seVeral ° f them v «y Wnd
efcr ' HT' } H ° U,d borrow thl "ee or four
*j£3&!s££- ,h " k " 1
nv- r„ My W ' fe ' he - mtan time ' y° u ma y b e
ext ! r "f® ?'•* contrit 'ng how to d.T
pofe o. this new acquisition.' She found
i I complaint of most women) that (he had not
'i ? g ° Wn t0 her back > , at I«il not one fit for
> her now to appear in.
t0 Her wardrobe «f linen was no less dtfi
cent • and Hie discovered fevera] chasms in
«. :r/ i,rn r, re ' efpfc;aii >' ;n th - a «ici es 0 f
p ate and cluna., She is also dftermined to
■ft n p t f" rti as she ca »s it, and has
■ » aftually made a party to go to the opera.
in ' ,n ° rde V 0 fu PP ! ?' immediate
7 Z Ai! r eS> lhc te | P r « a '^ d with
I! me . ( tbou S h at a great I&) to turn the
8 P" ze ! n '\ read y money; Vh ; ich I'darrf
not lefufe her, beeaufe the number was
■r f 7T" Ch ,° 0ll "& ' BBd fa has further per.
- folded me (as we have had such good luck)
a- to lay out a great part of the produce in
v." P" rebafin g more tickets, all of her own
r wl° V °th g ' me lt indlffercnt which
h 7 u ™ ori " y & oes i for . u P on my making
te tr /i e •' 1 already find 1 stall be t
f nnf f^ my - g r s; and a " ni y fear is, that
one of the tickets may come up a five thou
tand-or a ten thousand.
f> I am, &c.
h Pq T CHANCE.
1 ,K > a , m . ' uft g° in g to elu.b—l hope
; s they won 1 defirc m e to treat them again.
n N O r FI cE. :
- . <3* Samuel RichXrdet, refp e afull r
. mforms, the gentlemen, fubferibers to the
a cbaD g^> tba£ on Thursday next, the 26th
nift.it will be openfor their accommodation.
He bega leave to acquaint his friends and
r | the public, that the City Tavern will also
_ be ;yady for the reception" of gentlemen
t coarders.
An ordinary as usual at three o'clock
b oaobf d,w.
' The Philadelphia, Atfwn, and 1 uckertan
\ MA I L STA GE.
PHE proprietors itg, have to inform the public, thai
1 lhr</ I'M 'JMiJhrJ a Stare htvoewPbilMbhia
I Atjion, Batio, Hampton, £peeiivell, and Martha F.:rl
1 »c.v, lVaditi£ River fitting mill, ajtj the tvt?n of T;ui
■ to go once. and areprofi..
iri viti good horfet, a comfortable ferriage, and a care
jul driver, for the of the mai!, pafrugen, and
good,. 7'he Stage \will Jlart tvery Thursday, at Io
0 c oct, /I. M. from Mr. Daniel CoepeYs Ferry, ani
lodge that night at Joe! Bodine's, at Lmgacoming ; and '
in on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. M. arrive. it C,leL £.
wane's, inteeper,. in Tuchrlen, difiant frohi. th- city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Eaji Groufmp
Plains 7 miles) where are good ae-.ommodations foftra
vellets, and inhere are commodious and fife paffjge hoats
pravtded to convey pajergers to CaV. William War -
rington's house, on Tucker's IJtand, adjoinining the At
lantic, n<hcrc are gfod accommoaations, and a convenient
place to hatbe ; the sportsman xnho tvifhes to regale himfelf
Ttith fowling andffhing, may at this place he highly Ra
tified, there being at almojl every fcafin of the year fowl
audfifa in abundance,— The Stage on its return, flart,
from the aforefaid C. Evans's'in Tucherton, every Tues
day, at 6 Jclock, A. M. breakfafl, at John Bodme's, at
trading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longasominr, "J
and at 1 o clock, P. M, on Wednesday, artive at the
aforefaU Cooper's Ferry. It is prefamlj that no route of
an equal dijiance will be less expenjive, or farni/b the tra
vellcr -with a greater variety of amusement, as he -u ilt
not only have a plcafant fan to the atlant c from Tucker
ton, but have the curitfity of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and 'forge,, and one flitting
mill, incomplete order, and at-work ; gentlemen, t 0, who
are owners, or faflors, of any of the afarfaid iron works,
are fohcited to encourage and support this Jlage (by which
they can be fa well acconmodaed) the continuance rftvhicS
will depend on t'eiraid. The rates of paJTeime's
and baggage are as f Hows : For a pajfenger 'from tic
■ifarefaid Datiel Cooper's to Tucker ton, including
14 lb. of laggagr, Two Dollars ; for way pajfa-ger,
permile, Four Cents— 150 lb. of b Iggage equal if, a paf
finger. Pefage y letters, newspapers, is'c. will be
agreeably to laiv. \
N. B. The war? croffesfrom the Old Fei rv.
THOMAS WARDLE & Co.
Tucitrton, Sept. ®B. 08,s laws
MEDIC I N E s.
OF ev: ry kind, nsceff. rv for the fid also, Sa
go, Barley, and Oatmel. for diet drink, will be
delivered gratis, duringtlle prtfent contagion, to
th»fe who are unable to pay for it, at Hunter's
Laboratory, No. 114, South Second.^treet.
ME DICINES. '
THE Poor-who may find it i TOvenient, from
diOance, to make use of Mr. Hoirtj's truly me
ritorious offer, will be supplied with medicine
(a*;o, barley, oatmeal, &c. by applying at th«
fubferibw's ft ere. No. 36, Market-ftrect.
ROBERT S. STAFFORD.Imported inthe(hipMANCHESTER> i
Benjamin Shewell, Master, ' yn p a (.
From Bourdeaux, and for sale 'oy the fubknber,
Nh. if Walnut St.eet. v i)ew {
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~*f
IH(lt market c-laret in cases ( Entitled to -p H R I
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback. L a ft.
Sauterne, do. do. J SioTof
Thomas Murgatrsyd. tranla ai c
w'vib HAS JOR sale. The folio
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks fcwrt
Rqta do ; do - J °Hi,
PimentQ in bags His
4.000 bushels Liverpool fait. His
Au» 24. ; Hi . s
i " Lewi?
To be fold at Public Vendue, His
, Tot-be highest bidder, at the hdufe of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian Nk
Queer,, m the city of Baltimore, on rhe-jjth Thi
day of Oiftober next, at n o'clock, A. M Thi
About ftven thousand acres i>f land, Ro
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia, j oh
between Reifler's-town arid Westminster, Hu
commonly called Little Winchester, (the tufn- R 0
pike road runs throuah a conliderable part or Pet
these lands) the trarf begins about 17 miles Jul
from Baltimore, within a ftw hnndred yards Wi
of laid Reifler's-town, and extends to the: dil
tar.ee <?f ibrmt twenty-three miles from Haiti- w.
more, and lias on the main falls of - aU V r ' c f'
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will j
be fold in trails of one hundred and hity to
hundred acre. There is a large propor
' tii-n of meadow and wood land on each tra ,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings arid fine gr;fs. R;
A l- SO M
A tract of seven hundred acres ot -
land, called Clover Farms, wfthflt Sve miles of ry of .
BladenChurg, efieemed very good for p"' 5 - *n a,> -
Richard Ponfonby.of BUdenfturgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchale.
ALSO}
A traft of land of abewt three hun-, gold
dred and thirty awes, within about two miles Sou£h;
and a half of the Present's hdule in the tede- j un(
ral City. It is nearly allwsod land, and a fine
high profpea, fron-. which may be 'ceH the
cfty of Walhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
arid a part of George-town, and miny mil" '
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard For,fon<- I
by,, of Bladenfburg t <Vill also o»ew this land. No. H
A liberal credit will be given for the U"
part of the purchase money, she terms *|U II
be made known on tfe« day 01 ti<m,
Mays - y Y Z
Just Received, " e gh
From Batavia (viiProvideoce) c ° n " c
A few Box«s of Spices, confiding of , _editio
Nutmegs, ClovesandMace
For sale y fRJfJGIs, Ve
Penn. street.
, dtf in th.
" a T 3° Fwa
Davis's Law Book Store, theS
Koi 319. High-Street. parts
GEORGE DAVIS, ™ b l
BEING busied for some tihie past in prcpara- H
tione for removing into his present house, has rivgl
been under thenecelhty of poftpomnguntil this day Dur|
Informing thc gentlemen ot the Bar generally thro
the United States, that his spring importation ol uew
law books is now arranged and ready for Ule, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre-
frience he has experienced for fcveral years pad. J
Catalogues, combining the most varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito this country, are pr.nte
and will be delivered on application. j/,
ftaw ow
june ty. Rl/l
' City Commissioners 1 Office, h '
Juneii,iM. ;° c C
TN pursuance of an ordinance from the fele« w£)|
A and common councils, palfed the aad day of .
Mav laft> appointing the city cwinmiflioners,
and'orefcribing their duties, feaion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, y -
That the city is divided into five diftrias,
each to be under tbe fuperintendancc of of ha ,
the city eummiffioners, who is to be individually sis(
relponfible for the cleanliness of the lame, and thc
are as follow- > , c mt
I>iftria No. t. From the south fide of Le
dar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spfuce-ftreet, I*l
- superintendence of Nathan Boys.
2 From the north fide of SprOce-ftreet, to
thenorth fide of Walnut-street, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts. ,
From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, under the fuperintendenoe ot
J °4 CP Fr C omTetorth fide of High-street, to th.
north fide of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of Moulder
5. From the north fide of Mulberrv-ftreet to
the north fide of Vine-street, under rhe super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks. (jj
Thecleaningof Hrgh-ftreet to be in com«on.
rt- A flatcd meeting of the city commission.
J is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o clock.
luly U- E
Stands for Draymen, &c.
1„ pur Juan n of an Ordinance from t]
Common Councils,bearing date the °f t
'city Conuniffioncrs, Sect, tbe l i lh - C
r-piHE following places are fixed upon by the f
v 1 said City Commifiiotiers for Stands for «
TYravmen and their Horses. v
In Vine-street, ~eaftward of Ffont-ftreet, on
High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets, !
eastward of Front-flreet,on the no/th fide only.
' Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Th it-ftr!< east fide from Vine-street to
E1 Fro h nt S -ftr«t, from opposite < o Black llorfe al "
lev to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the nsrth end of
or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-lar-ftreet, weft
iffaw brdge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South ftreeU, east of Frost
tr Dock-ft t r«t, d between Walnut-street and the
croffiogs, east fide, opposite George
°Seeond-ftreet, between SalT.fras and Vine
ftr Fifth-ftr-t f feaft fide from Chefnut to Mul
%%7ffKftr.et, from Third ,0 Fourth-street,
Kray or horse to stand within ten feet of
FOR HACKNEr QOACHES
£e-ftrect, i.-th fide from tourth to Fifth
flr Fu'h-ftrcct, between Chefnut and Walnut
ftr ßranch.ft«ct, north fiic, bet W «n Third and
[Fourth ftreett. jaw&fim
A Literary Treat. ?nik
Jufi puilijhert, handsomely printed on writing (i se ing CO u
paper, price I dollar, or more
A new edition of that popalar and entertaining oncs 0 f di|
work, 'untitled from Roy;
THE FORESTERS, in American Talc ; being U pwjr(js
L a fequelto the history of John Bull, the Clo- I j ian ' les j' r ,
thier—ln aferieiof letters to a friend, with the ad- I te
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political | , liem f or ,
tranfa&ions in America. •_ t h en r
The following ejetrafl from the Clavis AUfgonca, «
feew the principal characters that are introduced.
John Bull, the Kingdom of Jtngland £ t
Hii Mother. theCfurch of kfigUnd Horftsan
His Wife, Parliament latter h«
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patnclc, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His Miftreft, the Old Constitution , ount-V
His now Wife, the National Rcprefcntation _Septen
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain [nfiirs
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Farefters, the United States of Amerw a (
Robert Lumber, New-Hampshire [ thc
• John Codline, Massachusetts Compan)
i Humphrey Plowshare, Conneiticut Seventh 1
Roger Carrier, Rhode lfland ceive anc
Peter Bull Frag, New-York {rom , Q
i Julius Cafar, New-Jersey Sent I
i William Broadbrim, PennfyWaiua —.. .■ v
Cafliinar, Delaware v i •
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
, His Orandfon, George Walhingtoo TNFOR
I Peter Pitch, North Carolina 1 have
j'j Charles Indigo, South Carolina Wiltninj
George Trusty, Georgia 1 the city.
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont pjied, 4i
! Hunter Longknife, Kentucky By thi
Blick Cattle, Negro Slaves ceived a
-Rats, Speculators to the a]
r Mother Carey's Chiskans, Jacobins by oth«i
r This popular and entertaining satirical hitto- shoul
if ry of Ara«ica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bbi- t h c city
5. KNAP. It has a gT«at share of originality and a- luK , Tt< j (
AT bounds with genuine humour. It is continued -
down to the present time, and dwraaerues thov gni ar a,
late political tranfailions winch havs cauled lo S(fpt
much uneasiness in Amsrica. *i~7) I
l * i Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. iO, IU 1
" South Second Street, and No. 50, Marks' <U*et. ALa
«- June»6. 5 » ndl P
ie
>< LAWBOOKS
es Latest London and Dublin Editions*
rr- fJ. Zsf P. RICE, Booksellers, _Au§
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
eft YTAVE just received by the Ute arrivals Irom
ill rl London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding as a variety of the latest and molt
approved l*w Books, whici, added to those alrea- Qi IT
- dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive eolleition ev- Oni
er oßercdfor sale in this country. They theiefore House
beg leave to notitt, that from the nature of their on w
connexions in Dublin, they are enabled to fell lnlh j ect a
, editions (as they have hitherto at the very p re f el
"lowed prices. The following are among the latelt numb
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Report# in Chancery, rca. q-
Peake's Cafei at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Rcforti
in the time of Lord Hardwicki; Floyer s Probers With
_ FraAice in the Ecclesiastical Conrts; Bartons Wate
Trtatif* on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pradice of street
the «ourt of King's Bench in Personal A&ions,» ty-fo
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise ,^rd
on Uses ; modevn Reports, rt vols. London edi- s out h
tion. • I ave
H. and P. Rica e*pe& t» receive by the firll ar- on
rival from New-York the 6th vol. compile of {ion
da]r , Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of GU- m
bert's Law of Bvidence by Loft, and a number of prQp
" new publications. v I for c
pre- J Une l 6" _ P''"
The Fliftory of Penni'ylvania, L
"'S By ROBERT PROUD,
II Tg now in the press, and will be publifticd, I
w 1 with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA- A
riah PoulsoN, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftrett, I xl
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will csntinue and
to be received, and at thf Philadelphia Library, I «
7 ." according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the I fart
lieri, stab
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FRIEMAN Company, I
is dissolved by mutual tonfeet. All perfont ""
"% 01 having any demands against the said House arc de-
Ul "y fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
1 and those indebted to th»Houfe are deired to make pay- I
ment to him—By whom business will i« future be
f c <" .arried on,at his Store, No. 39. 3 *" 11 F , ront - ftreet ' n.
t, on- Augtf 7 eod^w
:t , to Richard and James Potter
uper- HAVE removed their Counting House to No. I
45, South Fifth-ftr*et. ,
south Acguft i. I
" ofot Lanca/ier, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
to th« Sbtppenjburg and Sunbury
fuptr- I .
STAGES.
fuoer- -"THE public are requested to take notice, that 1 &
J. the partnerlhip which has far fometfme sub- I
filled between Maithias Slough of Lancaster, and
lifTion- William Geer, is now dissolved: but, not as M.
Hah Slough infinuatesto the public without jnft cauf.s;
" lgh " as will more fully a PP ear by a letter on the fub
iea from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
°" n December lad. a rkcital of which is not now deem- I
cd necessary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more tircumftantially inf.rmed of the merit, of
cH and thi , business, by applying to W. Geer may have 1
day of , he perafal ef M. 31ough's letter, and then can be
rtent of at f u U liberty to determine whether or not W. I
' Geet is not perfedly juftifiable in attaching huj|-
by the f e lf to any other person in the profecuttonl of the I (
jda for stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Slnppenf- I
ure, or any other place. ■ I .
e«t, on Now from tbe liberal and generous f»PP° r '
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort m I
fttreets, this business, William ®eer, in eonjundlion with
de only. Messrs. Reily, Weed and W.tmer, :s determined .
'ront to to prosecute and .carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
treet to who are amply provided 1
■r r,l with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
. , n( those wno wilh to patroniK and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their leats at
eet " n George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
tet> we« Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg, I
Carlifle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
"the' further accommodation of the public,
and the . g laee will start every Wednesday from the hcufe
• George of Samuel Elder, M Harrifbnrg, Sun
bur-in Northumberland county every Thurlday,
nd Vine and ' return from theuce and arrive at Harnfturg
every Saturday, so that passengers deft.ned for
to Mul- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed oa Mop
'th-ftreet, WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. »7, 1797- A f ,
•n feet of N . B. This Line of Stages starts from thc
houff of William Ferrec, m Lancaster, on every
CHES Turfdav and Saturday morning at 6 0 clock, pro-
Mo F fth S to the westward; and from the heufo £
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harnlburg every Wednef
-1 Walnut day «» returai
w&fim P l>ia- ' /
iaw&.fira
Ackertii'ement. ! *
On the zoth of November next in AJexandi ,a
(being court day), will be expoied for i,le one
or more covering Jacks, and ' e^ r f .''Tj ObCervt
ones of different ages anc'. ii«es; all dcfcen \ J
from Royal GifHan imported Jack Irojm Spain,
upwards of 15 hands high) ° ,Jt i»opo rte 44 i-he H.
Jinnies from Malta, full 14 liands lispo.
The terms of sale (or if i»bt fold, of letting In which t
them for one or more feaions to c'ofcr) wi ALE
then 6e made known: the payments may be Late s Secr
madeeafy to the purchaser, bond and feennty
being given for the amount, with inter eft, tv r
At the fame time and p'-ace, This pi
Horfcs and Mares will be offered for- fait. The t^e
latter having been to the Jacks, are probably umted St
with pyrfons wh
JAMFS ANDERSON, Manager. ganizinp ,
ount-Verrton, ?oth \ lt . refpond^nt
September, 1797. > law^w -
Insurance Compari) of the State
ters from
of Pennsylvania
THE Office will be kept until further notice at the t
the School House in Germantowu. Ihe of the htl
Company still retain the room m Chefnut, above A
Seventh street, where a person will atund to re
ceive and give answers to applications, every day CASH Q
from 10 until I o'clock. Augutt
Sept IV "=~
Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA, J
INFORM [heir customers and the public,' they ( L . 3.) I
have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, they have their store open in
the city. At either place tfieir friends can be flip-
plied, and their'orders carefully attended to- >
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re
ceived a handsome aff.rtment of ai tides, suitable
to the approaching season ; and e*pecs to add to it (
by other fall ships. , <■ ,j i ta
Should the Ccknefs prevail in the centra part of <(
" the city, that branch of their business will be re-
" moved to Germantown. u
0" The communication by post is open and r»-
0 thtf
CHEAP !
A Light W A COON almofl new, with a frame etors of
and a piir of har.eC> (Englilh collars) has never tioned^
been used—price 90 Dolls. o
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years aid—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harncfr— 3*°- Je'y
Enquire No. 331, Market-flreet 'i-v
Anguft a 4.
:t > For sale or to be let on ground
™. rent '. A R k
)ft A,-valuable Lot of Ground ; cerne i
a- C ITU ATE on the north-eill corner ot wal- frii;nd9
v- O „ut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- moved
,re House square. This lot is fifty-one feet tront ; applica
sir on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen neJ| so
i(h feet and an half on fifth street ; there are at
T 7 prel'ent two small two story brie* houses, and a N .j
eft number of fmall'tenements thereon. Tents
Also, for Sale, by api
Two three story Brick Houses ,
ers whh convenient stores, wharf, on
n's Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafrai LO7
los streets, containing in front on Water ftreetJif
«,» tv-t'our feet, and continuing that breadth east- pi(
life jnrd nii.e:y-five feet, then widening to t*e A
:di " south thirteen feet fix> inches. Ihele houses »ALI
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining tion ,
«■ on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua- cowi
tion for a merchant, flour faflot.or other, who fouM
iJ ' t may hive nccafion for storage of goods. This draw
: of property will be fold on very reafonab e tmm,
for cash. For further information apply to the
-rev. J*
1 11 ~X O BE SOLD, draw
lied, I AndpoMion given immediately, _ T1
HA- \ LARGE t"woftorjbrick Houf«,handfomely Bills
•eet, A fituatedinPrin. tin. There are four row. «tm<
inne and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in _]u
ary, the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet m £
the length, and apiaaiaof 57 feet.
in the yard, an excellent k.uhen garden, at the
, t( farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 f«t long, with
flails in the two stables for I? hories. , The h
thinefs and pleasantness ot its situation. and the
rfom number of genteel and a g *eable families in and j
!£. near the town, render It a desirable retreeat for a
and gentleman from the city. The eommodioufnefs of Cl
• house, its central position, and the largenrfs of
ir P e"be theftables.makeit.evcry wayfuitabkforatavernfor ,
ireet which it has always been confiderd a. a capkil _
I fUad. Inquire on she premises, of
ISAAC BNOWDEN.
r Princeton, Aug- ? c - Sol
oNo ' City of Waftiington. '
cP6t I J (_
lijle, I SCHEME A «
Of the Lottery, No. 11, c / c
1 For the Improvement of the Fedenl City.
A. magnificent dwelling-house *O,OOO dollars, Bi
e that 1 * ca(h »te 50,000 ej
.ditto 15,000 <c cafb a 5 ,00e 40,00. «
:r and I ditto 15,000 & cash 15.000 30,000
a's M. I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 10,000
cnufe ; I 1 ditto 5,000 & ealh 5." 00 ,0 «° 00
he sub- 1 ditto 5,000 & eath 5»ooo to,ooo
te 19th l cash prize of »0,000 /
r deem- I t do. s,oooeach,are • 10,000
:s to be I a,,. 1,000 - - 10,00 c c
"its of do , 500 - - 10.000 p
•y hiVC 00 do. too - ' * o ' ooo I
- n w. ft -■ SK.S
do. 10 • ao ' 000 [
of the I , . »5®,000 t
lippenf- I d°- .0
jort the *6,739 P"" 8 '
ffort in Blanks. ,
io.ooo"Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400.0°"
"nTb. To favour tUofe who may take a quan
j tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars willlb
provided the 1,.t drawn ticket, and the 30.900 the last
."Inform I approved notes, fe«u»ing payment in either
ra« 2 money orrises, in ten days attcr drawi.g. wdl
feats at be received foi any number not kfsthan 30 tick-
Monly " This Louery will afford an elegant fjjecimen cf
.rrifburg, the priv»te buildings to be ercaed in the Cay ot
hitherto Walhinjrton—Two beautiful defigos are already
feleaed-for the entire fronts on two of the publac
,e public fcuraites; fromthefe drawingsit.ispropofcdtoereCl
thrhcufe j two centreand'otw corner buildings as (oMaspof
at Sun- fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
rhuriday, when complete, to the fortunate »
[arrifturg the manner defenbed in the
f>;npa (nr T ntrcrv A nett deduction of nve per cent, win
Z Mop- be made to defray the necefla
H „r &c. and the surplus will be made a part ot
EER The fund inteniVed for the National Umverhty, to
be erefled within the city of Washington
r x, I The real fecuritie6given for the payment of the
from th« the President and two DireA
loTk'TrZ -of 'the Bank J Columbia and are valued at
locK, pro- j the amount ot the lottery,
ihoufc of more than h SAMUEL IiLODGET.
iJlfpt ,§. Tiekets may be had at the Bank ot Cokm
y i f Pa,T& Co. Baltimore ; of Feter
isz ' •
Thifadel-fand of RicW V/.IU, Cooper , Ferry.
This Day Published,
A»d to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, «orner of
Second and Chcfiiitat (treats, ..
Price 3-Blbs of a Ddlar, Excellent- C
Observations on certain Documents A(ma i lparc
Contained i* N"o. V and VI df \ f cw pu'-icl
<< The History of the United States for SuperiorTo
the year 1796," An invoice
In whidi the ch aroe ps speculation afiinll I thepac
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, I A few ham
Late 'Secretaey of the T*' asurv, i» FULL\ I T u f
REFUTED. The
If Kir TEN Br am t Kir. . ,
This publication presents a coiicife statement I g
of the base means praSifed by the Jacobins of the coal
United States to asperse the chara&ers of those India Ca
psrfons who are confcdtred as hoftilte to their difor-1 Sooty R
ganizing fckemes. It also contains the ■. cor- B-ue:Cl<
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Me(or». Bandan.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Yenab'e, on the fub-1 Blue rod
ie&ot' the docunvents alorefaut. and a scries of let- An iov
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha- a ®
milton, proving beyond the polfibility of a douot, A bo*: o
that the connedion between him and Reynolds, SilkUn
was the rel'ult of a daring eonfpiraiiy on the part Two he
of the latter and his associates to extort money. M
a discount of one third from the retail price Black r
wiSbekiade in favor ol wholesale purchasers, for East Ini
cash. Orders to be addrefTed to Mr Yovno. Java St
Amrutt 25. ' quar
■
No. 100. Roll B
Dtflria of Pennfylwania, to vjit :
. I)E IT REMEMBERED, that on the A .
> Jj twenty sixth day of July, in the twen- —-
' ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dii- |
ttofl.hath depofitedin this office the title of shook, j
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the I PR]
. word* following, to wit: — j
\ " Observations on certain documents contained I TpVER
« in No. V.aiul VI. of "TheHiftory of the Unit-j c ; t j
f « ed States for the yrar 1796," in which the charge attentior
„ « of Speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late enquirie!
•' Secretary of the Treafnry, is fully refund— j f ew p „(
_, « Written by himfelf " r , I not beir
In conformity to the aft of the Congress ot the wrong r
Ucited States, entituled, "An aft for theencour- that the
- agement of learning, by feeuriug the copies of 0 f the F
maps, charts and books to the authors ants *ropn- | ] y ratioi
- etors of such copies, during h« time* thsrem r.»ju- acids.
=r tioned." v
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Tob
a CM of tbi Diftrifl of uiVento
July 27. _ W 4W_ bove h
et The Inhabitants of the Diftrift
1- of Southwark,
*RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to b« A
IX kept at the Constables' office, the north east
, earner of Front and Almond streets where the cou
ll " friends of those lick persons who desire to be re
te; moved tp the Chy Hospital, are requested to make
,nt | application—Also, a Hearse will be kept In reads- Just re
en oels for the removal of the dead. . n
at JONATHAN PENROSE.
da B The Poor, who wife to remove to the .
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnifhed with orders
hy applying at above. the ap
on William Blackburn,
Va. LQTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE Hoop
sis- No. 64 south Second-?reet. .... V
aft- r-picKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which 61,1 5 c
1 commenced drawing the *9th May, FOR ftrwt
jfes SALE. The price of tiekets will rife in propor- W
iing tion as the drawing advan.es, particularly on ac- fefl c
""a 5 count of the five firft drawn
»ho four thousand dollars each, on the kft day ol dem.
rms dr a>eek Books kept for examination and regifter
the ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Wafcington, No.
2. and Paterfon Lotteries. .
Also, tickets forfale in the Schuy lkill bridge and
Perkiomon Bridge lotteries, which will bo s m . n
drawing in the pourfesf the summer. IV
The business of a Broker in all kinds of ,=»«««• year
mely Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- 4cc. tranfailed wKhth.e fcid
Doras utmost a;te»tion. ,„e,f I
us in June » I
"4 TErlkine's View of the War. I
it the ■ 1 clui
i two JUST PUBLISHED, fhaJ
with By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. darl
heal- No 4 o Sou'.h Second ftrect, I bat
i the fp r i C e ji Cents]
' for a A View of the Causes and Confequen
.efs of cts of the present War with France, the
irfsof By the Honorable Thomas Erskibe. j
rn.for w' , J 10
:» P MI W " y 3 I wa
u STATE TRIALS. U
'{ Sold bW. Youko, Bookseller, ffo. J*, South Se- 1
cond-ftreer, _ I ,
, The Pennsylvania State Trials, f
the impeachment, trial, and acquit- j jr;
Ll a l ofFrancisHopkinfen, Judge of the Court of v{;
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Compwoller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
City. w. Youno has for sale; a general assortment of I
iollars, Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack-
50,000 ege, well afiorted, and eniitled to the drawback
40,000 supwtsrf. j" H
30,000 p or SaLe, 01
"',OOO That v/tllknown plate, called VjtiDseßirt's P
ln'ooo r%NNe(haminyL«'«k, 18* miles f. orri Phila- _
to'ooo O ladelphia, on the New \ ork post road,
10,00 c containing 74 a«res and 94 peteh<M. Ujpon the
10,000 premites are a large two lt,ry C.ne house occu-
I 0 000 pied as a tvern, and a good one ftor V
lo °oo chen, a large frame stable wilh a good tbrrfnr.g
\O\OZ floor, and feme out buildmgs-alfo a well of r
»o 000 good water, and an excellent Houfe. On
, this place .umoft elegant fituat.on fora gentle- (
man's feat, commanding a viewj ot the Nefham (
iity to its iundion wiih the Delawa»e, and thence
across to the Jerky (hare, h has the privilege (
of one half the toll received from the bridge. ,
For terras APpVy SnWcnbcr#
400,00® ror term PF QKDECki LEWIS .
c ~ Vav 24- 3 { iWtf - ,
swill be COLUMBIA HOUSh
he LAST Boarding-school for young Ladies,
tin either A /rRS. GROOMBRIDGE with m.th pleaf
«»K, will M. ure and rcfpect, return, her sincere ac
,lo tick- knowledgement for the liberal eihcourageroeist
she has received during four years reOdenee iR
recimen cf Philadelphia ; and assures her friends ami the
tie City ol Dl)b li c , f 0 far from intending to decline her
■e already school) (he has made a fupenor arrangement for
the public (he mort convenient accommodation ot her
id to erect fcho | ar ,—Kvery branch of ufeful and polite
•oob aspof- edllc , tl . n ; 8 particularly attended to by Mrs.
ivey them, Gpoorn bridge aivd maflars exiKlling in their
tTSA snd Eleventh
•cent. •Will _ . ,-n- imJrf
s of print- is heaMy ; and made I
«rlity to more agreeable by an extenftve garden and lot
j ' of ground adjoaning the houle.
lW it of the ' j u n Publijhcd,
woDirea- Meffrs-Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
: valued at Andßookiefiers in t V
GET city price one dolla>, tw.i.ty-Gve cents.m boards,
of oLnV- New Views of the Origin of the
:; of Feter Tribes and Nations of America.
Jchmocd ; B£NJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m.d.
ry ' QlWf / J"" 8 10 -
mwf /
Rofs & Simfan,
'HAVE FOR SALE—
' ' rHogiheads,
Excillent- Coffee in < Tierces, and
/ (.Barrels.
A (mail parcel or rice cocoa in bags
a few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Torcriffee wine, old anil in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the package
A few hampers ot heft cheefe.
Tuly 17' __ "L.
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aflortinent @f India Muflins>
coarfc and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B-'ue Cloths and Checks ,
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue rod and Gilli Handkerchiefs ■
Arf invoice of irifli Linens and Sheetings, we*
allotted
A box of Diapers
• Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes ©f*fine Spices, cotaining Nutmeg®,
Mace a»d Cloves
: Black Pepper of fir ft quality
Esft India Ginger .. *
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Win£
Ditto of Gin
Roll Britoftone , *
Mordecaf Lewis.
I WTm
t Higgins' Specific
C, FOR THB
ic prevention and cure of the
YELLOW EEVER.
:d T7«VER since this disease made such ravage*in this
t- city an d New-York, the author has turned his
;e attention to its causes a»d cure.—The result of his
t« enquiries has convinced him that the reason why so
- few persons recover from its attacks, are from it«
not being well understood, and the consequent (
ht wrong method taken to cure it. .He is persuaded
ir- that the excessive bleedigm and raercunsl rcutmont
of of the Faculty is highly injurious, nu l that the on
ly rational mode of treatment isby theufe of prop-r
«- adds. Convinced of this he offers his Sftcijic&s a
certain remedy, if used according to the directions.
To b« had in bottlss, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Gx>. Cherry Areet, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jack fair and
7C Co's Medicine Warehouse,. London); by J-i-c
---« iW.No.dT6; W. a^i.No.i 7 r,T.
SI, South Third ftreetStiff, No. 55, New street,
near Vine ftrct.and?. <Sal», No. 36, Race street.
J2 Aug. *5- « "
thc COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
r =" CONSUMPTIONS.
idfc Jtrfl received, by W«. G.irriTHs,No, I?7,South
Seoond-ftreet, a frefti supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
, t ' ie A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill 1
den ( W k. knowledge as a Botanist procured hw
I the appellation of the Linn*us of Britain) ana i»
•onflderod in England as a urtain sun for the above
complaints; it is also of in 6 \ilar efficacy in the
'CE Hooping Cough,
It may alfe be had retail of W. A. Sto.es No.
hick 61, South Second-ftrott, and T. Srnr, JJ, New-
FOR ftrset, in bottles at 7J «nls each.
>Dor- Wm. OmirriTas having observed thc happy et
n ac- sea of the medicine, (fevcral cases of cares hav
es of ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
,v ol demand 'for ft has induced hint to order a largo
supply, a part of whieh he has jail received.
;ifteT- I Augufi 3. . |' || - —«
~Ne' 30 Dollars Reward.
;e and I
bojin awl y on Sotufday last, two indented 9er-
IV vants.eifford Daily, a mulatto boy, about 17
IVxik, r , of agej a sli m U g ht built a&ive fellow, fan
<h the I rcld an d writj,five feet seven or eight inches high,
I has a heavy countenance; had on a fuftian coatee
I and trowfers, a high crowned hit, firve (hoes &c.
~Z Allan Hellons, a black man, about 14 years of
age, five feet fcyen or eight inches high, a thick set
I du-ufr built fjlUw, particularly about the breech;
f hacfon a Tailor's blue jackst lined with fwanfem,
'0 I dark fCripcd vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, eearfe (hoes, &c.; each of them had fevcral
I ftiir'ts and several other eloathes with them, i hir
ty Dollars will be psid for the runaways, or IJ dol-
Jlien- 1 j ars f or each, and reasonable charges, on delivering
ante. I themat No. 54, North Third-street.
I The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
\ I Town, in the County of Sussex, state of Deln
* 1 ware, andhas taken the boy withhim.
? July 31. mtu&fjw -
luth Se-1 To be SOLD or RENTED,
\ LARGE 3 Story Brick Houfe> on tht
a ' s » IX Scmth fide of Filbert street, between
acquit- I Eighth and Ninth, lately c*ceupicd a» the Sur-
Courtof I ve y o r General's Office.
Ur Gen- T v, e Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet de*p,
loards, 3 the 1()t , I 0 f fet d eepj w ith the privilege of a nine
I feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
tmentpf th# lotjW a t h„ t y f»et wide Court for Carriages
f town ih. The House is not plastered, and
wback it be turncd e ither into one, or two dwelling
— Houses. It isfuitable for a Urge Manufaaory,
or would make a good Tavern. Inmiediaot
csi/f's pofleffion will be given.
Apply to Wo. in, Chefnut-Strert.
m Phila- A "g- 1T - C ° d4t "
,ft road, Muftcal Infirument Manufactory,
P °o n ccu- Mh 167, Arch-Street.
TTARPER.harpfichord,grand,portable gra*4
hrefiiiMT il fid-board, pier table and square p.ai.o torA
, of makir froro London, returns thanks to his friendi
r and the public, soT their liberal encouragen-.eftt,
ard hopes that by his assiduity and atmit.. n to et*
x T g^ n ery branch of his business, » merit a continuance
Nefham- fayors pi ano fortes made on the newelt
id thence and most „pp rovc *d plans, with pedals, patent,
privilege fwc[l jr , a Frenc h harp stop, whreh he flatter*
bridge. himfc 'if w iH uC found cn trial by unprejudiced
1 iudges, to be equal if not fuperiortc any import
WIS " l ed, and twenfy per cent cheaper. Any inftrn
jtawtf. msnt p U rchased of him, if not approved of m
L' I twelve months, he will exchange.
. I N B Ml kinds of Musical instruments madey
Ladies. J une j and r'epaire<i with the greatest accuracy,
«ch pleas- dilpalch, and on the mo ft reasonable teim-, tcf
incere ac-1 ready money oniy.
iragernest Second hand Piano Forte, taken in exchange,
cfideiiee in 1 May V-. — m ~—
re line her I Forty Dollars Re ward.
-ement for n AN away from the fublcriber o>. the lee
m of her I K. end day of tUis inft- J"W> a Mulatto Man,
>na polite L.med Will Bowser, forty years or agi,
, by Mrs. ftv« feet seven or etgkt inches high, rather
,g in their c h«nky made ; hud on when h* went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, ftnped purple trowfet.
.Streets. and jacket. It .. probable he will change h«»
§ imitf I cloatl.es, as he took a number with him. The
; and made 1 f a ,d feltow formerly beloved to Mr. Charles
den and lot I Blake of this place ; And it is expeaed ht ha«
mafic t.ward* Jones's Neck, m the Delawar.
~ State.— Any person apprehending the ftid fel
low, and securing him so that 1 can get hun a
tipbell,Rice, ; n shall receive the above reward if taken
cllers in tV J 0 f t hd county, and Twenty Dollars if in
,ts,in boards, I t^e CO unty, aid reasonable charges if uro 6
II or the howft. J£SSE REED>
vnerica. I Qu«mi Ana's Maryland.>
)N, M. D. w}t
'it r J»'y 3-