of ti)t §tatto 9 and Philadelphia Bally Advertiser.
Number 1645]
SALtISBY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOO DS.
£ Forenoon—Edward Fox, No, 56,
Monday! A , f °" th lrro »t-ft>"eet,
- 1 Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C Soatli Front -street.
Foreijoon—John Connelly, Old City
7uefiiav< N» 73 south Front-street.
j Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 13.; High-street.
IVabiefday \ A \! er! ' no^,T PPeer l er >' ienfor >> N °- 74
I south Third-Brcet.
Tburfday 5 forenoon—Eclwlrd Fox.
■ I Afternoon—John Connelly.
Fri/lav I Forenoon— 'William Shannon.
5 Afnettibo*—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
Io be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If mt hfire ,rfiofcl of at private sale)
/ "\N Monday the fifH .-tav. >l [n.vi.ry nt>t, at fix
p'clack in the cveninj, i!>r Merchants' Co
ffee House, in Philadelphia, Twcntv-Six Thousand
SeveH Hundred «nd Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Peonfylvanm and the Su'quehanna, now, or late
in the to'whflitps of Hamdenaud Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One to.rth of the purcb.le
money to he paid at the time of sale ; for the relidue
credit of one, two and three months, will be given,
on intereii and good security.
D c <- gtawtS.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
0( If not before disposed of at private sale)
N Monday the hrft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant*.' Coffe.*
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun- j
died and Thirty-Nine acres of LAND in {
county, Commonwealth of Pennfylvania,on tha Wa
ters of Fish and Wheeling Creek, and tru Miie Run
Thcfc land® arc fertile, timbered and abound in
coal; they were ten years ago for 5s per ?.cre,
patented eatly in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
tented in 1792 • the greatest part of them were sur
veyed in 1783.
This traft is between the Ohio and Monongahela,
very convenient to water carriage.—about 19 mi les fr6m
the town of Walhington, and from 14 to 16 from the
villages of Greenfburgh and Whceliog. One fourth
of the pjrehafe money is to be paid at the time of
sale ; for the relidue a credit of one, two, and three
months will be given, on interest and good security.
Dec. 1. (3tawtJ
NOW~LANDING, -
From on board the fliip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wins in do.
Few Sale, apply to
John Wbitejide Co.
No. 138, S arket-ftreet.
Also, on band,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few cases of Claret, of a superior quality,
november 29. §
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, has seven years yet
to fcrve ; he is an excellent house fcrvant, a&ive
and healthy. Enquire of the Printer.
December 2. diw
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Doard—at No. 114, comer
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been fre« from the late
contagion. Odt. 27. —dtf
CQLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIUGIi with much pleaf
ureand refpedl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
flie has received during four years refidenae in
Philadelphia ; and aflures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her -
fchocl, lhe has made a superior arrangement for
the mote convenient accommodation of her . I
scholars.—Every branch of ufefai and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpedl ive profrfTions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. simftf
Thefituatiun is perfetflly healthy ; andmtdc
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
■ofgTound adjoining the house. "
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, «orn«r of
Second and Chefnut streets, r
Price 3-Btis *f a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The Hiliory of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge of speculation* against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Xate Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br HIMSELF.
This publication pj-efents a concise statement
the base means pra<slifed by the Jacobins of the *
United States to asperse the chara&crs of thofc a
•psrfjns who arc confideredas hostile to their difor- 1
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor- c
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs. °
Monroe, Muhlenburgii and Venable, on the fub
;je& of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha- -
mil ton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt }
£hat the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiracy on the part
of the latter and his aflbciatcs to extort money. B
•0' A discount of one third from the retail price
wilTbc made in favor of wholcfale purchasers, for
<casm. Orders to be addressed to Mr Young.
Ai'gttfl 25. _ c
Landing,
From on board the (hip Edward, at Walnut
ftreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine, k
of 11 superior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews. in
november j. eotf
TO BE SOLE;
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country, gc
That three story Brick House,
No. 157, north Third street. Apply at the of- Ju
{ice of this Gazette. n«v. i)~ wty»4w wl
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 16, 1797.
For Londonderry,
The American Ship
BOSTON packet,
:6 ' CohfJErth wait, Matter,
s lying at Mifflin's Wharf^
near \ ine-ftreat—Has eldgatit aecominodations for
paffengers—will fail, weathor permitting, on or
? about the 10th inft. having all her cargo engaged
ready to go on board. For pafiage only, apply to
'<>• the captain.
Smith is" Ridgway,
No 4, North Water ft treet,or to
lfaac Harvey, Jitn.
No. 5, South Water street.
December I § lot
tor Amsterdam,
' I EDW?R D,
ix James Wickham, Mafier,
"EXPECTED to fail in a few days, having two
id -l-j thirds ol her cargo already engaged, and near -
be ly on board. For Freight cr Paflage, apply to
theMafter on board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to
John Donnaldfon,
fe No. at, Walnut-street.
it november 58. dßt
the ship
xgv COMMERCE,
Captain Richard Waistcoat,
From Liverpool is now discharging
lx at Morris's wharf, near the Drawbridge, where
;e ! owners of goods On freight, will please speedily to
| fend their permits. Said veiTel will direilly ai'ttr
n • take in freight on very low term# for Bodon. Ap
-- ply to the captaiV, or to
isaac Harvey, jten.
No. 5, South Water Street.
A few tons of stone, or sand ballad wanted
. as above. November 27 —§iot.
For Amsterdam,
' FA R M P E R,
[ John M'Coilom, Master;
fe- - WfXA. fail in a few days, the
air^*^^s *-^=^ part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to the mailer on board, at Walnut*
s street wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, ont of the said Ship, from Bour
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter cafki 1
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, <
Sauterne, C Wines in cafe«
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxe*
november 24. «
»
For Liverpool,
V-—u The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of her ,
cargo being ready to go on
board, it expeded to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or FalTage, apply to the Captain oa 1
board, at Walnut-ftreef Wharf, or to
PHIL'IP NICKLIN (if Co.
November 12. 5 I
l?'or Savannah, in Georgia, J
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chish'Olm,
A new veflel, with excellent '
~ accommodations for pafTengers— '
Sails on the 10th o£ December. Fur Freight or
Passage, apply t» ROSS ta" SIMSON.
IVbo lave to difptfe o/",
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
Rundle & Leech, 1
Have just received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut-street,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. best house CO A LS
Quoens' WARE in cases, aflorted
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in do.
THFY HAVE ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER, r
4 THE SHIP
PEGGY, I
Burthen lis tons, in excellent condition, and tl
may be sent to sea with little expence or delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILLIAM.
Burthen aoi tons,
november 16. §
For Sale or Charter, f
The fall failing brig
Brothers,
-¥sßmiif Lying at Curling's wharf,
an excellent fmgle dcck'd veflel, burthen about
1600 barrels— not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the master
on board, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
nor. diw.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing, -
By (hip Edward, from Madeira, and Bctfey and *■
c SSy> CV II Oporto, in Pipes and Hogdieads, , t
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT. \
WHO ALSO OFFSRS FOR SALB, '
The Ship
AMITY; Ti
Four thousand barrels burthen, in
excellent order—ready to take to
in a cargo—about three years old. tjic
likewise, rie
The Schooner Industry, Ul
Burthen £qo ban els, ready also to receive a car- f .
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars, L ' a
Just landed from the above veflets at South street by
wharf. eoim. Nov.
By John Fen no, N a iip Cbefnut Street
For Londonderry,
THE DRIGANTINE
S U K K
' I WILLIAM Wbittis, Mafier.
irf, A ftronggoodivf.ffdj, about two
lor hundred tons, to fail with ail convenient a
°r ereat part of her cargo engage^— lying at
;cd Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or paf
to sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Land ink erger s tuharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A -Vessel of about three hundred tons.
no-v l'B .
For Sale or Charter,
JgpL GOOD HOPE,
IfcrfWill carry about nco barrels, and
'*
' 111 apply to
r ° Pragers & Co.
to No. 151, South Second-street.
) ho have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lilbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7.
Philip Nicklin y Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut (Ireet Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
g XJ hhds. Jamaica do.
■e 3°"° piece, of broad Nankeens
0 Imperial I ca, in quarters and eighths of chests
r '<J|i<«ulvcr in tubs 1
Madeira Wint in pipes and hogfliead.
1 cneriffe Wihe in pipe? *
Old led Port Wine inhogftdd.•«i
Sail Canvass, airorted, No. i to fe
8 cases of Manchester Goods, coaGfting of Dimities,
Muflinets,Ginghams,Thickfctt.,Corduroys, &c!
_ too crates Qaeens' Ware, aflorted
Nails, aflorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocr« in caiks
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
ioo quarter calks Gun Powder
7t<v also for SALE or CHARTER,
TheJhip MOLLT, burthen 340 tons, a
' good veflel, and completsly fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
The whole of the above vefiels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. § mv. 10.
TO LET,
A Front Room, suitable for an
Office or Counting hotaft, ■with a large Cellar.
Any pcrfonwho may rent the above, may (if re
quired) be accommodated with Board and Lodg
ing in the fame house. Enquire at no. 180, South
Front, near Pine street.
December ij. 38W3W ]
Uriah Smith,
No. ao, north Third street—has for sale, •
A neat and general alfortratnt of '
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt (
and Drab Coatings. also,
A variety of Gentlemcns' fafhionable fancy Waift
coating, ft Be Hosiery, &c.
December 5. 'eod 1W
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufaflured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; (helled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer, I
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ; t
London Porter ; red, Port and Lisbon Wine, '
suitable for exportation or home consumption. '
The highest. pi ice given for Mustard-Seed.
Also for sale, A quantity of Booking and '
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fustians, Shawls, &c, for sale by
JOHN HAWORTH,
Ne. 98} south Front-ftrcet. J
noi\ 47. m.&th.t.ij. ;i
—2 •_ ; —— — t
Landing this day,
From on board th« schooner Two Friends, Dan- h
lei Crawley, Master, e
5 Si"""•i Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BV
George Latimer & Son.
uovemher 9. ;i f
James Sis Richard Smith, t
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends F
and the public, that they have removed their "
llore to No. 54, Stutb Front-Jlreet, next deor to Ed
ward Fox's Au£icn Room, where they have at
this time for fate, a large and general aflortment of "I
European Eaji India Goods, J
•Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
Oft. a?. 5 I
NOW LANDING",
At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord', j
Captain Thompson, from Hit a via. -»
About 300 tons firft quali'y Java Coffee (the 31
whole havHnjbeen feletfted)
80 tons Java Sugar, in canisters and bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack tc
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
for sals Br a '
PETER BLIGHT.
iVho also offers For Sale, rt
Just landed from ihip Amity, from Jamaica. [ U
I'ji hhds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum. c};
november 23. d6w
Canal Lottery^-N&. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the zoth ftr
inft. Tickets for SaJe in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN'. Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten q
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register- '
iRg and examining in these, the City ot Walhitig
toh, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and iniorma- S°
tion where tickets may be had in most of the I.otte- a '
ries authorif.d by law in any of the States of the
Union. A
N. B. Thj bufincfs of aBaoKER, in buying and
felling a'l k.nds of Public Stock ar.d Securities,
difcounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lai-«.s, Houses, &c. Sic, will be duly attended to,
by-' Wm. BLACKBURN. he
ncv mber i !'s. § r I
New Assembly Room,
South Fourth street, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets.
Mr, FRANCIS,
OF THE NEW-THEATRE,,
ivo ESPECTFULLY informs his scholars and the
, 3 public in general, that bit Academy for Danc
at ing will commence, for the season, on Thursday,
if. December I?, at the above
ELEGANT ROOM;
When he hopes to receive the continuance of their
accustomed patronage, which it will be his unre
mittingendeavor to delerve.
i he days of teaching for his young pupils are
Ihnrluays and Saturdays, from 3 o'clock in the
a tcrnoon till 6, and from 6 till for those of a
more advanced age.
As 511 accommodation to those living in this vi
cinage, Mr Francis intends to inftrudl a small
party of cnildren on Wedncfday and Friday after
noon*, at his house.
ld Diftind from the Balls, Mr. Francis
a* will have four private feleil Subscription Bills.
Private teaching, either at the Academy, or his
house,
Mr. Francis's firft PraSifing Ball will be on
id ruefday, I9ihl)ec. at the New AiTembly Rcopi.
Ladies and Gentlemen's tickets to be had, by
applying to Mr. F. as usual.
- For further particulars, enquire of Mr. F. No.
I 70 norrh Eighth flreet. Dec. IT—mwftf
Imported in the brig £iiza,
Capt. Hastie,from Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Uafes of a very fuperi.r quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in bafeets of 12 bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sale by
JAMES 1 ATIMER, jun.
71, South Wharves.
5) Who has also for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
P ec> f• dzw
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales Coflas
40 do. Baftas
11 do. Mamoodjr
J 7 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
1 do. Goraht
25 do. Meragungees
3 do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
ts pipes fineft particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage 1795.
, MORDECAI LEWIS.
December 5. 3aw4w
All Persons
Having any demands aga'nft the Estate of the
C*P ta ' n Gcor S e Irwin, are reqticfted to
bring in their acco««it« pioperly attelted, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAIi IRWIN, Administratrix. 1
nov. *9 1797. { ~ :
MUSIC. |
J. L. LENZ,
R Teacher ol Vocal and indrumental MuGc,
ffrURNS hisfihCcre thanks to the Ladies and '
, Gentlemen, from whom he received a very '
Kberal encouragement Once his refidencc in this ci
ty, and relpc&fully informs his friends and the pub
lic generally, that, in consequence of the request
of some of his friends, he has opfened a Mußcal
School at hishoufa in Sprace Street No 174, where
he will teaeh en the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c. 1
He deems it uineceffury to enlarge upon the ad- :
vantages the learner will derive from an indituti- '
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and zeal are much excited in an alTmbly, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame obje&. His
arrangement is fueh> that an iuterference of the
the different fcxes will be avoided. Those Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to 3
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their 1
honfes. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hit house, where his terms and further parti
culars may be known.
Dec. 7. *lweod
Geenteel Boarding & Lodging.
. A Family may be accommodated with a Draw
l\. ing Roona, two Bed Chambers, and fuitabie
accommodation for servants—at no. 53, north
Fourth street. Dec. s—*tts5 —*tts
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Sccond-Jlrcct,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reafonabl. terms. Oil 27. —4W
Muftcal Inflrument Manufafiory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOTERS OF HARMONY.
, HSi R P £ R,
TNFORMS his friends and the public, that he has b,
A now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, (implicit) and durability of conftrudlion, the
faperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a {ingle
,al will convince the unprejudiced judge—-As they
are manufactured under his immediate infpe&ion, ei
of the very be£ seasoned materials, he can fell on tL
reasonable terms for Cash. Instruments repaired,
tunedj&c. th
N. B. Secondhand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
November 18. 2aw2mo.
Wants a place,
I ' n
AS a Wet Nurse, a young woman, who can
be well recommended. Inquire in Eleventh '°
street, near Race-street. Nov. 47. S e
*eodiw.
ev
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in A
good condition, and would answer the purpose of w j
a country printer as well as new. 0
Enquire of the Printer. Nov. 30.
AEt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum tr :
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above adl may be had aj
he Office of th#G /zette of the United States, No
119, Chefnut-ftreet. July 19;
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
iut A N a(ij':uin<fd meeting of the Stockholders of
, , j c . JM aw arc and Schuylkill Canal, hto be
c at their Office on TuefWajr evening (19th oi
this inllunt December) at 6 o'clock, p. m". precisely,
he a " d P u »<3ual attendance is requested, on matters
ic- ' importance, relating to certain pro
iy, P c «ttpD» for the more expeditioufly complctingtlie
work and obtaining the aid of the Legislature
and the Corporation of the City, for introduce
a copiopj supply of water into the fame.
WM. MOORE SMITH, Scc'ry.
December 14. dti9th
" Insurance Company "
a J HE SfATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
| HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
-L Election for thirceen Dire&ors to serve for
jjj one y ear > will be held at the company's Office, on
Monday, jhe eighth day cf January next, at 11
o clock.
1S SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
December 14 d>Bthj
is A Fifty Dollar Bank Note,
n Of the Bank of the United States, was loft, ou Sa-
turday last, between the Bank of the United States
and the Hois; market—lf an honest person has
found it, and will leave it with the Printer hereof;
? they flial! be handforaely rewarde<f.
tf O' crmber ij. eo d 3t
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholders are hertby notified, that an
* lee; ion for twelve l3ire<slors, for the enfiyng year,
will be held at the Bank on Monday, the Bth of
January r ext, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cafi'ier.
Decernb-r n, dtSthJ
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
eleilion for President and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, on
the fit ft Monday in January next, at ioo'clock,A. m.
WM. MOORE SMITH, Sec'ry.
December ii. mw&ftiftr^J
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
elctflion for President and Managers for the enfu
ingyear, will be held at the company's office, on
the firft Monday in January next, at 10 o'clock,
A - "• Dec, ii. mw&ftlftmj
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
AND NOW OPENING, Br
r George Dobson,
No. aj, fauth Third street,
An cxteniive and general aflortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Best London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worfled Bindings, affot-
Makenzie'sfuper,patent ted eoleurs
white chapel Ntxdles Imperial, diaper, actl
Nuns Thr«ad no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly assorted White Edgings
Lisle do.no. 130 to jeo, Blaak rnd coloured Chi
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to lad
Coloured do. and Twill Velvet & pelon Satthu
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick
Do. d». Ribbands Scotch ck>.
Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black bruih Feathers Buttons
And a compleat assortment of G»ods, suitable
to the prclent and approaching season, as reduced
P r 'c« Dec. 6. dtf
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
Richard James Potter,
IS this day dissolved, by mutual confcnt. All
persons indebted to the said firm, arc rcqu-Jled.
to pay the fame to either of the fubferibers; and
all persons having any demands igainft them, are
rqquefted to fend their accounts foi settlement.
Richard Potter,
James Potter.
December 9, j
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in Ihe Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. B. No. 5004, dated July 11, 1797, the fame
having been lott. JOHN "GRAHAM.
"Richmond, Dec. 1. (j6w
KOSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, > RlfM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, ind
A parcel of lhip building RED CEDAR.
OA. *7- §
For Sale by the Subfcribers,^
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Uouideaux Brandy
Tenet ijj'e Wine
Molajjes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo 1
Ravens Duck and one hogjhead cf paht
brujhes.
N. Ist J. Frazer.
No. 95, South Front Street.
N ° v - 7- dim
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
most refpe.-lfql compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, and re
turns his molt grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetienced for
these twenty-five years palt. takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftrects. To begin at loin the morning
for young ladies, and 6 in the evening for yo«ng
gentlemen.
His firft Prafl icing Ball will be to-morrow
evening, Saturday, the 9th inft.
Dec. 8. 2iwtf.
FOR SALE, ~
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
young, strong, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as most in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Chelter county, or»,:o
Thomas Fijher,
No. 141, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
H mo. a, eod3w.
["Volume XIIMrs. G RAT TAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs theLadietand
tkmer of the city, that her firft CONCERT
of Vrcal Music will be on Thursday next, the ziil
of December,-intt. at Mr. Riciiakoisi's.
ACT 1.
rtette, . Pleyet .
Angels ever bright, Handel |
•Gle^*—MfflYs Carr, barley, jun. and Hill, j
The Mafincr* j
—Mr Carr
Dftett—Mrs Grattan and Mr. Carr, PauVillo
Sorg:—Mr. jpurVy, jun,
fccoreh G\c—Mrs Grattan, Meflrs, Carr, Darley,
B£U.
ACT. IL
Concerto Piano Forte, (by a young lady) Viotti
Song—Mr». Grattan, ' Sacchim
Glee—Messrs Carr, Darley and Hill, JackfjH
Duett—Mrs. Giattan and Mr. Carr, Time
[Has uot thin'd
Songs—Mr. DarLy, jun.
Quvielitf—Mtir Grattan, Meflrs. C.trr, barley
and Hill.
Six dollar* each fu l fcriber for one ticket of ad
rimtahce during thefeafon.
ffujforibers ticket transferable, but any sub-
JtriHer on paying his fubferi; tion, will have a right
to tiernand tickets for the unmarried p nrt .pl his fa
, mi!y, wfcich ticket will admit them tvery wight
during the fcafon, but are not transferable.
The Conceit to bet;in at half past fife and the mu'
sic to attend for the Ball at eight, the cxpehce of
which Mrs Grattan engages to
. Kan-l'ubfcribcrs ticket—2 dollars.
Subscriptions received and ticket* delivered by
Mrs. Gr^tt.v.i'jiclerk, at No 191, High ftrrtt,
r» on-iuttcrlh ws tickets to be had the day of the
Concert tt the Bar at Mr. Richardct's.
December 15 dtuft
Marjhal's Sales.
United States, 1
Didrift, j
BY virtue of writs of venditioni exponas, iffjed
out of the diflrift court of the United Stales, and
to me dirt&fd, will be fold at public Sale at the mer
o! ant's Coffee-Hou'-e, in Second street, on Wednesday
the 27th dav of December inft. at 6 o'clock in the
cveiii >g, ail that piece orpucelof rtieadjw ground
fuuatc, lyiog and being in the tQwnlhipof PafTyunck,
.a. A c ur»ry-ofPhiladelphia, on the road leading to
kta.'e IHjim Ferry, abou: fitly, four acres
•an 4 three perohes, whereon are erefted a two {lory
b'iek Mcfiuage, out houses and a barn ; aKo one o
wther traft or piece of meadow gioutld, situate in the
f.vd fownlhip and county, and nearly on the oppofue
.ftdcoKh- laid road to the faidlerry.conlainingfiXLeeii a
cres& ih-ec quai tcrs: also a mefTua,»eor tenement and lot
or picer. of grout d situate on the north fide of High
Crrrt, bet ween 51b and 6th flreets, in the city of Phi
ladelphia, containing in fronton High (Vreet, thirty
thrie feet, ar«cj in length or depth two hundred feet,
bounced cast by property of Hannah Pembcrton,
north by South alley, wed by property of William
Be 1, and south by High llreet aforefaid.
Seized and taken in execution as the property of
Hefiry Scckel, and to be fold by
William Nichols, Marjhal.
Marshal's Office, ">
D. cembe'r
December, dtf
T - - * 7 -
Public pf India Goods
at New-York,
Will commence on Monday the 18th inft#
by A L. Bleecker & Sons ;
The cargo of theJhip Swift, Pierre dt Peeler,
Commander,jujl arrived from Calcutta, on
a credit of 2, 4, and 6 months
Confiding of 279 bales of the following ar
ticles :
Manikpore
Kirabod
Guzzena I Baftas
A'ddee j >
Eni<:rtie * <
Patna J
Jellepore
Ouddee CofTaes
Tigerry Guzzenas
Beeboorn Gurrahs
Blue Guineas
Guillaudendiary Handkfs. t
' Doreas
Dacca Mulmuls
Taoda CofTaes
Santipore Muslins
Kermichee Romals
Chatlderconah Nayanfook &
Bandanoe Handkerchiefs
The above Goods to be fold without tlie
smallest reserve.
Philadelphia, Dec. 12. *ds t
rTo~T" 1 c E.
To holders, of JAMES GREENLJZAPs
and EDWARD FOX's Engagements • o
IN confequcnce of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumflancc« from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to forrtier
notice. The Trustees now inform them, tHtfy
are ready to ifltae the faiSc to those vvho may ap
ply v itbin fixtydays, at No. 8-Clufmit Street,
and those" who do not, will be confidercd ai re
linqiiilhir.g their dawn on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HF.NRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOG BAKER.
December 15. d fiot
Ncw-Theatrc,
December it, 1797*
TKF. Mavagirs particularly request the con
currence of the public in the abolition of a
custom, which hwhitherto obtained, of giving a
vay or difpoftng of RKTURN CHECKS at the
Thebtre. .
They are aware that gentlemen arc ur.conlcious
of any wrong dene to tne intercft of the
ti<jpby this praflicc, from a general, though mis
taken idea that Checks arc the representatives of a
right to to many feats in the Theatre, during an
Evening'" Entertainment,and transferable jt will;
when in f»a, they were never intended as more
than txiens by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to ascertain with the l.alltrouMe to xbcparhn, that
they iienfclvti have lisen before in the I heatri, or
raid for their admission.
Independent of the injury the Managers fufiain,
such a vraflice encourages a eroud of iale boy< and
other disorderly psrfons to surround the doors of
tht to the corruption of their moraU ana
the great apnoyarce of the Audience.
Jt has aifo been the fonrce of two evils of no in
eonlidi rabltj magnitude 5 one «». that l .metimcs
very imr ,p P'' r campany is by these means admit-,
ted • aitd the other, that owin, to Checks pafung
into diftionelt hands, they have be n Irequenaly
countcrlcit-d to a large amount for the purpofesof
This ttatement will, it isrcf,>edtful!y hoped, in
duce rhe Public to difeaurage Ijch a ualhc : and
the exertions of the Managers will, «f thus abided,
«afily prove adequate to i's entire W^ohtu-.y,
WIGNELL U REINAGLE.
December 13 - ,w
IClje dgajettc.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 16.
'—
Fur the Gazette of the United States.
Ma. FEN NO,
I have not the smallest doubt but Con
grifj will duly appreciate the advice given
them in yeur paper of Thursday evening,by
" A friend to laws and freedom." If poli
tics alone were affe&td by his remarks, I
(hould not have taken this notice of them—
But in order to render his reasoning irri-firt
ible to Congress, he has introduced a kiad
of mercantile arithmetic.-"
I conclude, that considering the members
of Congress as mere politicians, he hadfup
pofed that they would be so bewildered in
his arithmetical logic that in order to extri
cate themselves they would be obliged im
plicitly to adopt his conclusions—Be that
as it may, his arithmetic is certainly very
fallacious.
He goes upon the idea that the capture
of one vclfel out of four sent out by a mer
chant mull proportionably raise the value of
the other three, because it will make pro
viliotis scarcer. This would be true if the
cargo in the captured velTel were destroyed ;
but notwithstanding the capture, the cargo
I goes to market ; if not to the fame illand,
to a neighbouring one —So that r in faiS, it
wouhl be better for a nation fhat a veflel
should founder than that flie (hould be.cap
tured ; for in neither cafe is the country
indemnified ; but in the former the cargo
cannot go to market in competition with 1
our other produce and so lower the market;
in the latter it may—And yet the friend to
laws, &c. fays, that in the former cafe there
is a national loss, and in the latter not.
One other delusion—that the national
loss is not so great where the ycflel taken is
insured as when it is uriinfured. It is true !
that the individual loss may not be so great
in the former as in the latter, for the infur
a»cc may be by a company and the proper
ty owned by an individual—But as it ref
pe&s the nation, the loss is exa&ly the
fame—The property has gone out of the
eountryand'nothing is returned for it.
I have thought it proper to make these
observations, for fear that our merchants
and underwriter,, being convinced by the
reasoning of the " friend t* laws &c.'' that
they loft nothing by the captures made of
their veflels, should be induced to priva
teer upon their «wn property —For certain
ly it would be a great saving to thtm, to
take the one vessel out of four, which he
supposes may be taken by an enemy without
injury to the country.
AN EN EM Y TO NONSENSE.
Dee. 15th.
From an Eajlern Paper.
European intelligence; of the moll recent
dates, furnifhes nothing consoling to the
friends of peace. Accounts from Hamburg,
to Oft. 4, mention, that the negociation at
Udina, was positively at an epd ; and the
German troops were marching for the fields
of controversy. The French armies, our
readers will recolleft, were ordered to be fil
led up by the 6th of Oft. Thus on both
fides, is note of a dreadful combat given.
On the Rhine both power, have very form
idable armies ; and Gen. Buonaparte, on
the other fide of Germany, has a powerful
chain of pods at Udina, Belluno, BaiFano,
Verone, &c. which menaces Germany, from
the borders of Austria to Tyrol. We know
not what force the Emperer has to oppose
the French in this quarter, but if it is not
powerful, the firft intelligence we may re
ceive, maybe his appearance underthewalls
of Vienna ; or a division pafliug the Tyrol
country, attack the flank of the Gennan ar
my on the Rhine ; while the powerful force
of Angereau afiails them in front. Those
who delight in human carnage, we doubt
not, will befoon gratified.
Oneßailleul.areprefentativein she French
council of 500, published an address to his
conflituents in August last, in which he de
clares to them, and to all France, the
majority of the two councils favor a royal
id conspiracy, and that the nation is betrayed.
On the 30th of August, only five days be
fore the late explosion, a motion was made
in the council of five hundred by Duprat
(one since banilhed) for a vote of censure a.
gainst this incehdiary address of Bailleul.
The tumult and violence of the debate that
ensued, tho' common enough there, are
scarcely to be described or conceived by A
mericans.—They called— robber, rogue,
and murderer ; but Hopped, however, Ihort
of blows.
Duprat expatiated upon the evil tendenay
of this address, and moved that it (hould be
referred to a committee to report the proper
measures to be taken against the author.
Hardy, and others of the party of ' the
direftory, then a minority in the councils,
opposed this, and exclaimed—" Dare you
violate the liberty of the press ?" Yet, on
ly five days after, 32 out of of the news
papers then printed in Paris, were fuppretT
ed by the direftory. This is liberty of the
press ! Tallien, on the fame fide with Har
dy, diftingui(hed himfelf by his zeal. In
answer to the reproaches call upon him, for
the many murders of which he had been
guilty, he gonfeffed—" that he might have
committed some errors—he might have been
hurried away by the ardor of some principles
—he had perhaps concurred in the deuth of
some reel patriots—but such was our fate,
that republicans must die by the hands of re
publicans."
It is curious enough, that Tallien made
this defence becaufc he said, it was impor
tant that the members (hould not be viftims
of the fouled aspersions. What could his
enemies have charged againd him more
scandalous and horrid, than he has said of
himlelf to clear up his character ? It is tf
pecially singular, that this fame lamb like
Tallien—this babe of grace, concluded his
harangue by recoramendiug to tbe council, 1
mutual fqrbearance ( harmony and brotherly 1
love, and " that they would extinguish ev- 1
ery passion for .the public weal."
If one Could possibly fufpeft, that there
was any hypocrffy in politics, especially in
regenerattdiPrance, the numerous bombas
tic profeffioHS of love for liberty and patri
otism, and love of mankind, so fafhionable
in their legislature, would not be in.future
so edifying and comforting to their admir
ers, as they have been.
From the ALBANY GAZETTE.
Mejjrs. Printers,
In a lectrft-vifit to the Cohoes Falls, with
gentlemen, one of the company un
dertook to account for this molt wonderful
cataraft, and gave it freely
as t Jhis» that the time was when the
waters below vthe falls flowed on a level with
the bed, river above. An idea at once
so novel, aadrtp us improbable, although en
forced by philosophical arguments, and a
depth of reasoning to which it was impofli
ble for us to reply, had 110 conviftion on
our mindi ; the old opinion, that it Was so
from tjae... beginning, being firmly Seated
there.
On my return, in casting my eye over a
volume of Coxe's travels in Switzerland, I
found this ingenious author to entertain a
similar opinion of the falls in the Rhine.
As it is a matter worthy the inreftigationof
the curious, I have made an extraft of it,
and fend it for insertion in the Albany Ga
zette, not doubting but it will be accepta
ble to lome of your readers.
" About three miles from the commence
ment of the Via Mala (fays our author) we
came to a (tone bridge of a single arch,
thrown across a gulf; a sublime scene, which
I (topped to admire, and which I left with
regret. The Rhine falls in a beautiful cas
cade, n.lh in a narrow channel at the depth
of above 4QO feet perpendicular, furioufly
dalhinjf under the bridge, expands itfclf
in a and there is loft under a
rock,, through which it has forced a pafiage.
" The impending mountains, partly bare
and partly embrowned with firs, call an aw
ful gloom over the gulf below.
" I was here greatly struck with one cir
cumstance, which I examined with much
attention, and which I had observed in sev
eral other v«Ulit;s of Swiueiland, but never
in such perfeftion as at this place.. The
Rhine, Which is at present about 400 feet
below the bridge., fecnis evidently to have
once flowed as high, or even higher, than
the place where the bridge now stands ; to
bave gradually worn away the rock, and ex
cavated the deep channel in which it now
runs." . . qpf
NJEW-YORK, December 14.
From,recent European accounts it appears
that unless our Envoys so the Fr«nch Re
public, accomplish the objeft of their mifli
en, .by a treaty stipulating reparation for
pad injuries, and a more friendly conduftin
future, no hope of averting the ruin of our
commerce will remain, but what depends on
our own measures and refoiirces. From the
decree" in the Council of Five Hundred, dis
avowing the apparently amicable motives
which aftuated tfiat body a little before the
ljje violent change, to adopt tbe report and
the motion of Paftoret; and from certain
unfriendly decisions by the Maria e Tribu
nals, we may infer, that unless engagement*
are entered into, and rtligioufly observed,
of treating Vis Vyith mpre equity, the fame
piracies will be exercifedon our (hipping,
which, during the two lad years, have so
indelibly tarnilhed the annals of the Repub
lic.
That their privateers have been fuccefsful
in crpizing against the American, as well as
Britilh commerce, is a known truth ; and
the induftrioui preparations to catty it on
more extensively than ever, leave little r«om
to hope for the escape of any of que mer
chantmen, bound to the Bntifk European
dominion^.
If then, by a denial of national juftiqe,
we are to continue exposed to the fame and
greater lifques, from French cruizers, and
from the unprincipled paricides of Ameri
ca refidentjp France*—Jf no resource, but
but repelmig force by force, -remains, if, to
submit tamely to the blow aimed by an af
faflin, be fynonimous with deliberate suicide
—(hall we continue to fit with arms folded,
without one attempt, one effort to avert our
deftru&ionNo—We do not desire war—
we folieitoufly wish for .peace with its at
tendant bleflitigs—our pafl conduftis an a
dequate proofj and v our obviousiniere Its are
fufficient pledges, of this. But put
ourselves in a posture of defence. Let us
aflame a repulsive attitude. Let cir ves
sels be armed. Let them no longer be the
prey, of.ruffirns, unprovided themfc|ves,.
with the means of offenfive operatron, and
formidable only by their numbers and -cha
racter. i >
It is not uncommon to find cowardice as
sociated with cruelty. The miferablc pol
troon who fees a weaker individual in his
power, feels no sentiment of humanity, but
gives a loose to the molt boundlcfs cxceffes.
Whei ehe finds him felf matched,br his pow
er overbalanced, the contemptible jvretch
is as abjeft, as/he hefyre (hewed himfelf des
potic.
This serr.ark is-Jtonfirrtfed by an incident
which late. l y t(«jkplaee iu the Britilh chan
nel. * Art armed American 1 hdiaman (that
defcriptioflare'permitted to carry guns) was
met by « French privateer full of men, who
after firifig into him.'ordeled him, in terms
the mod Sominet'ririg, to heave to, and
threatened fnftant deffruftion in cafe of nen
compliance. The American, calm and un
moved, sent one ball into the picaroon,
which so deranged his courage, that he im
mediately with the magnanimi
ty of a hero, gave himfelf lip. Oilr coun
tryman bid hmi •flve'er off, and be more care
ful in future how he meddled with Ameri
cans.
This, with other fafts of a similar com
plexion, (hews at how little expence one half
the property facrificed by our forbearance, -
might have been fstved ; and bow great a \
part of tbe disasters incurred by our nier- i
chants, might have been avoided by the fin- i
gle permiflion to carry a few guns. i
The idea of being involved in war, by i
measures of felf proteftion, is chimerical and ■
degrading in the extreme. If we may not ;
defend ourselves when attacked, how con- i
tetnptible i 3 out situation ! We may at i
once renounce independence as the shadow
of a (hade, and acknowledge the United
States to be colonies of whatever power i
pleases to seize upon them. Let us think
like the Treiident, and with him declare,
that—
Nothing will contribute so much to the
prefer fat ion of pea<?e, as the'ifiilnifeftation of
that energy and unanimity, of which, on
many former oocafions, the people of the
•United States have given such memorable
proofs ; and the exertion of those refourc '
es for national defence, which a beneficent
Providence has kindly placed within our
power." '
CHARLESTON, Nov. 28.
Y Aerday a negro man named Mecredi, I
charged with being a principal in the late
confpiraey with Jean Louis and Figaro,
who were executed on Tuesday last, was
tried by a court of justices and freehold
ers j the guilt of the prifonr was fully prov
ed, in canfeqUeuce of which he was fenteuc
ed to be hanged this at 12 o'clock.
A correspondent begs leave to remind his
fellow-citizens of the neceflity of placing
lights to their windows, on an alarm of fire.
The advantages refultiHg therefrom are too
obvioua to n«ed further observations.
HALIFAX, N. C. Dec. 4.
On Saturdary last, the company of artil
lery belonging to the brigade under the com
mand of captain Smith,"paraded in this
town.' ' At the close of the parade, a pro
portion was made to fuppiy the quota re
quired from the volunteers :
when they unanimously ftrpt forward, and
offered their services.
We are likewise informed, that the quota
required from the lower regiment of this
county, was furnifhed by volunteer* on the
16th. The arfk company called on (capt.
Morris's) turned out to man.
I-t is witb pleasure we announce the above
■deroonlt rat ions of the patriotism of our fel
low citissens ; by which they have evinced,
that whatever may be their sentiments re
fpe&ing other nations,they are pointedly de
termined on the defence of their own.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY OECEYBER 14.
Continuation of the Debate on the fuijefi of
Foreign Coins.
The Honfc having resolved itfelf intoa Com
mittee of the whole, Mr. Dent in the
chair, on the Report of the Seleft Com
mittee relative to Foreign Coins, and Mr.
Nicholas's Resolution having been read.
Mr. Sitgreaves said, he had mention
ed yesterday, that there was in his opinion,
an obvious distinction between the cases of
Gold and Silver Foreign Coins; and all tbe
reflection he had fmce given to thefubjeft,
had confirmed him in the conviction which
he then exprefled. He moved, therefore,
to amend the resolution under consideration,
by adding after the word «• Foreign/' the
word " Silver," which would have the ef
fect of confining the suspension of the aft in
favour of silver,' and leave the aft of 1794,
to operate on gold coin. If, said Mr. S. j
the design of the Mint had been only to
gratify the pride of Sovereignty, the object
would have been inconsiderable and unwor
thy of the expence of supporting it ; but it
was established for far more important ends.
It was, that the Government might have a
control over, its circulating medium, which
was efTer.tial, in order to prevent its debase
ment by alloy and fraud. This debasement
was chiefly applied to Cqpper and Gold
Coin, but not so much to Sib(*r. He saw
no t reason, therefore, why Fqreig.i Silver
Coin, which had long been cntrent irt this
Country, (hould be forced ofH.-of circulati
on into the Mint; they were of the fame use
and value with any which might be re-issued;
but it was very different with refpeft to
Copper and Gold Coin, which was subject
to be debased in so many differei t ways, and
which could not be prevented, until we had
a fufficiency of our own coin, which would
be under our own direction and control.—
Let the ftoppzge of French Crowns take
place when it might, it would be attended
with some inconveniences, yet the period
mutt arrive, if the Mint were to be support
ed ; but he conceived these inconveniences
would be felt in a very small degree with re
fpeft to Gold Coin. The proclamation of
the President of the United States, which
notified that Foreign Coin would oeafe to
be a legal tender after a certain day made in
Oftpber, 1796, related to both Gold and
Silver Coin; but the notice refpefting Gold
Coin was much farther removed than that
of Silver ;' it was not to go out of circulati
on, till July next, whereas the silver coin
had already gone out of circulation, except
that it were payable at the Banks and to the
Revenue Officers. It was, iherefore, much
more irt" the power of perfrins holding Gold
Coin to get it out of their hafirls brio re the
time arrived. The quantity of Gold coin
in circulation, compared with the Whole cir
culating medium, he said, was very final!,
and therefore, but little inconvenience crtald
arise from its circulation being flopped; and
on account of the probability ofGold coin,
it would be much tafier transported to the
feat of Government. But the mod import
ant consideration was, the present mutilatrd
state of Foreign Gold Coin, which rendered
it impoflible for those who were not well a %
qtfainted with the detail of bufidefs, toguard
against frauds. In the State of Pennsylva
nia* -not one man in 50G was in poffefiion of
3 pair of Gold Scales, and without thum, it
was impossible to afcertaiti wtertjjer gold wa&
weight or not, and there were (till tuwer per
foas, if they had scales, who knew the;eal
value of gwld » when it was deficient iif
weight. This great evil in the middle dates
whatever might be the cafe to the Eailward
and Southward, convinced him, that the
sooner Foreign Gold Coio was thrown out
of Circulation, the better. Bllt it was yes
terday said. that when our own gold coin
(hould get into circulation, it would he e
qually fubjetV to debajement, and therefore,
that it would be impossible to pass it by tale.
He would not fay, that, in the course of
time, this might not take place j but on
theoutfet, trade and intercourse would be
coniiderably facilitated, by having a proper
medium of our own; and when our gold
coin (hould become corrupted, by clipping,
See. it would only have to be returned to
the' Mint to be re coined. These eonfidera
lions had induced him tu'make his motion.
Mr. J. Wilciams wasagainft the amend
ment. The observations of the gentleman
were favourable to the cities, but not Jo the
extreme parts of the U.nion. Suppose it
were practicable or n'ecefiary. to call in the
Foreign Gold Coin, where would the Mint
si id bullion to replace it; The difficulty was
the want of bullion; and if they prohibited
the circulation of Gold Coin they (hould
prevent its increase. And even if they had
fufficient bullion, he thought the works of
the Mint too contrasted, to coin a fufficien
cy for all the purposes of the United States,
and he did not think it would be right to
to extend them, since, if a Nation were to
have its Mint, it (hould be at the feat of
Government, which in two years, was to
be removed from its prefeni fitnation. As
to the prefeat EftaMUhment, it had been at
tended with considerable expence, without
: affording any benefit, except to this 'City.
Our own gold, the gentleman said, would
' not for a long time'be either clipped or swea
ted; but when it was, it might be returned
-to the Mint to be re-coined; so that there
would be a conllant routine of sweating,
clipping and coining. But the gentleman
said, it was impossible to prevent imposition
in receiving the g»ld coin now in circulation
as few persons were possessed of gold Scales
he was certainly mifipformed in this refpeft,
as few persons who were in the habit of re
ceiving any eonfidorable sum of money, were
without gold fsales, or ignorant of the val
ue of gold; Why then, compel people to
fend this coin to the Mint? Was it because
they were (hortly to be called upon for far-,
ther sums of money to support th« establish.
ment, and gentlemen wished to give it the
appearance of ufefulnefs! With whatever
view it might be done, he certainly 'could
not agree to it.
Mr. PiNCKhEY was in favour of the refo.
lution of the gentleman from Virginia, with,
out the proposed amendment. He was a.
; gainst agreeing to the report of the'commit.
| tee, because, it would either produce no cf
' seA, or an injurious one. Gentlemen diff
ered in opinions as to the effed ; force sup
posed it would depretfate the coin, othtis
thought it would produce no such effefl.
To him this was immaterial. If it did not
tend to depreciate the coin, it would have
no effdft to force it into the mj'nt ; there
; fore, the arguments of gentlemen went toe
far. And, if it did tend (to depreciate
the coin, it would have a very injurious ef
j fcCt He did not fay this because he was
| against the establishment of the'mint ; he
I believed with the gentleman from Pennfyl
; vania (Mr. Sitgreaves) that it migh be pro
dudtive of gdod ; but he did not think this
the proper way to fiipport it.
Mr. Otis rose with some regret, and a
good deal of diffidence, on this question,
bec&ufe his opinion differed from both the
gentlemen whd hadjuft delivered theirs. He
I was equally opposed to the. ;»mendments of
j the gentlemen from Pennfylvahia and Vir
j ginia, and in favour of the original report.
Heconfidered both the amendments as hav
ing a tender«cy to undermine the mint es
tablishment ; if that of the gentleipan from
Virginia were agreed to, that institution
would have but a fliort duration ; and what
ever credit may be due to the ingenuity of
that gentlemtfli, and others who support his
motion, for this indiredt attempt to deitroy
it, be thought it behoved gentlemen who
wi(lied well to that institution, and consid
ered it as connected with the national pros
perity, to pause, before they gave a vote
which (hould'go to this effeft. If the mint
were found to be an inconvehient establish
ment, and the expence of it greater than
the'convenielice, let a proposition be bro't
forward, and let the question be fairly met,
and not endeavour to effect its overthrow in
the way proposed. In order to elucidate
his assertion, that this proposition would ds
ftroy the mint, he would enquire how tfee
mint was to be supported ? It could not be
supported with fufficient bullion, except by
means of the foreign coin now in
Bullion was not imported in large qnanti-.
ties into this country. In looking into a
riport on this fubjeft, he found the quanti
ty of bullion imported was fnhall. Govern
ment had no power to traffic in it, and our
merchants did not aften import it ; there
fore foreign coin was the only aliment with
which the mint could be fed. And if th#
business of calling in this com were post
poned for two years, no argument ..would
then cxift forfloppi.ig the cTrciilatjon which
did not flow apply ; thev should thin be told
that the expence of reeoinirig won d et
ceed the utility of the measure. It had
been said that the measures recommended
by the report would not have the effeft qf
throwing foreign coin into the mint, fin«e
though nearly ("even millions of revenue w-ete
received from the cuftom-lioufe, little of
this coin had been sent there heretofore.-r-
Tli'is, Mr. O. said, could not be expe&ed
when there was no restraint laid opon thi
banks to do it ; besides, dollars had been in
gre&t demand for the London and Ball-In*
dia markets, and the bauk bad found it re
ctfTarj v to keep back their dollars, and pay
out their . towns. ' Hereafter this reafoijW&. government might
, tTi.ike their deposits o.\ condition that the
toix-ign coin fliould be sent to the mint
With refpeft inconveniences which
would be felt by the"-peop!e, he did not
think they Would tje so great as had been
reprtlented. And upon whom, he asked,
vfould tliefe difficulties fall > Not upon the
potner daffes of the people ; they had al
ready experienced the inconvenience, for,
if they pufleffed a few crowns wheri the
proclamation was, iflued, they had been o
bliged to part with them, and had fuffered
by their depreciation. It'would then be
lhbfe people who had bought them up, who
would be benefited, provided the 1 , aft were
to be suspended, and the crowns were paya
ble at their full value in fea-pcrts, they ne
ver could be depreciated more than one or
two per cent, in any other par* of the coun
ty He hoped, therefore, the report would
"be agreed to.
Mr. Nicholas said he never yet voted
against the mint, and he did not know why
the gentleman just fat down fliould have
deemed him inimical to the edablifhment,
except from the reason of the thing, and be
' cause He was not, like himfelf, a slave to
whatever had been ettablifhtd. . It was said
his proposition was an attack upon the mint;
if it were, he did not want a greater conces
sion toprovethe eftabliflimentufelefs. When
the law for cftablifhing the mint was passed,
it was expe&ed the coin of the United
States would have infinoated itfelf into cir
culation, and stopped that of foreign coin.
If this had happened it would have been of
small consequence to the people to have had
it put out of circulation ; but, on the con
trary the quantity of our own coin was found
to be small, and that if the circulation of
foreign coin be stopped, the country would
be diltreffed for a circulating medium. He
therefore wished to suspend the law. Was
this to attack the mint ? If the mint could
not exist without impofmg upon the pesple,
they acknowledged it could not exist. And
where, heafked, would be the advantage, if
all the foreign coin in the country were to
be transfcred into the mint ? It had been al
lowed by the gentleman from Massachusetts,
that dollars werean article of export—would
not then, the dollars of our own coining,
equally with "the Spanift dollars, be sent
out of the country ! And, in return, our
merchants would bring foreign coin,fo that
all the coin in the country would become an
article of merchandize. If government
could procure bullion on moderate terms,
aud put fufficient coin into circulation, it
would be a different thing ; but it would
never do to take from the people the coin
they now used, without having others to
supply them with. Mr. N. denied that peo
ple could go to cuftora-houfes, and exchange
their crowns for dollars ; crowns would be
received there for duties only. And he beg
ged gentlemen to consider what would be
the expenee of fending this coin to the mint
to be recoined. There would be the carri
age and infnrance, and it would at least be
fix months irj returning, the interest upon
'which would be a dead loss.
Mr. S. Smith never conceived the esta
blishment of a Mint in the country would
injure the people so much as it appeared it
would do, in the view of this business.
He did not fee how the difficulty was to be 1
removed. If the report of the committee 1
were to be agreed to, crowns would be re
ceived by shopkeepers at a dollar ; they 1
would bring them down to the sea-ports and 1
pay them to the merchants at 110 cents,
and the merchants would pay them at the 1
Custom House. But how were the crowns <
to get from the different colic ft «rs into the j
Mint ' Would the United States undertake 1
to bring theih there ? In most of the cities I
there were banks, and the money was paid 1
by the colle<3or into the bank, and the 1
the treasury drew upon the bank for the a- 1
mount. How then were the crowns to get
into the mint ? If the treasury had a fuffi
ciency of new coin to replace the foreign
coin, the business might be effefted, but not
otherwise, as all commerce must of csurfe j
stop, and the price of produce i mmediate- •
ly fall, if deprived of a circulating medium.
For instance, would the bank of Baltimore 1
be at the expenee of fending their French <
crowns to the mint, and wait till they could t
receive new dollars in exchange ? No man
would believe this. Banks were always 1
pushed for money, and dare not part with i
their circulating medium. With refpedl to t
crowns, it was not of so much importance t
as the gold coin ; if that vjere to be called J
in, he did not know what the banks would
do—they could not wait till it was re-coin- e
ed ; they were rather borrowers than /
lenders of money. He knew of no bank 1
out of the city of Philadelphia which could
fend their foreign coin to the mint to be re- 1
coined, and wait its return. He did not *
know that they could. The Mint, be said, e
was flow in its movements. He knew an t
instance where a bank sent several thqufaud r
dollars worth of bullion to he recoined, and
they lay out of their property for fix or fe- 0
ven months. He supposed it might now be j
more expeditions ; but it would doubtless .
htf too flow for the wants of the banks.—
Suppose, said he, the plan could be carried j
into effeft, and the circulating medium was
wholly our own coin and Spanilh dollars—
■what would be the consequence ? It would
be this—our own dollars, being of equal
finsnefs with the Spanish, would.be export
ed in common with them to the London and c
East India markets ; and.liuce it was known e
that foreign coin was not current here, mer- £
chants would import as little of it as they a
could avoid, so that our circulating medium a
would fooii be exhausted. He fhould,therefore, p
be in favour of the amendment of the gen
tleman from Virginia. t
Mr. Sswall said, the present question t
was not whether the circulation of foreign i:
coins should be prohibited altogether ; but n
whether that circulation should be a partial t
one. Some gentlemen seemed to think no
thing ought to be done with refpeft to gold t
coin ; but all were of opinion it would be e
necessary to allow »t least a partial payment a
It ,of fllvvr coin j and feme of gold coin. For
is j . his own part, h : \vas unwilling to postpone
- j the difficulty which mult be. encountered,
and which had already been felt in a great
t degree, whenever a partial stoppage should
n be pnt to the circulation of foreign coin. If"
, the law were to be suspended f<?r two years,
e as some gentlemen wished, he did not think
we fliould be much better prepared to carry
, it into effeft than at present. He did not
e think it possible to supply the mint of the
United States with bullion in any other way
3 than'by preventing the circulation of foreign
" c "' n \ were not, he said, in poflefiion
) of mines abroad, nor did we import much
: bullion ; but our commerce led us to import
a jCjinfiderable quantity of foreign coin, and
" f° r e'gn coin of greater value in the country
r from whence it was imported, than it was
when it arrived here, which was owing to
I the exportation of coin being forbidden in
those countries, and there was no way of
1 importing it but by concealing it. On this
account, a four pillole piece, which in Bil
boa was worth sixteen dollars, was- here
worth no more than fifteen and a quarter ;
yet a merchant will bring this gold coin at
; this loss, rather than bring dollars, which,
being so much more bulky, would be liable
to be discovered, and risk the loss of (hip and
cargo. If foreign gold coin were out of
circulation altogether, he did not think
much inconvenience would be experienced ;
it was not current by tale, the weighing of
it was attended with much trouble, and he
thought it might very well be dispensed
with. And though it would not be receiv
ed as a legal tender, this would take little
from its value ; for a person would always
be able to pay a pound of gold for. what it
was really worth, and wbilft the mint was
in being, there would always be a ready
market for it. With refpeft to silver it was
different. It passed for more than its real
value. A crown, or dollar, though dimin
ished in weight, and consequently in value,
wou)d,pafi for a crown or a dollar. If the
circulation of foreign silver was altogether
stopped, the loss sustained by individuals
would be great ; but, on the other hand, it
was necessary to supply the mint, and it
was proper to flop the circulation of all fo
reign (ilvcr coin, except dollars and parts
thereof, which would not be attended with
any great inconvenience, as crowns and parts
thereof, bore, but a small proportion of the
foreign silver coin in circulation. Indeed,
the inconvenience had already taken place.
In the part from whence he came, the cir- '
culatLo of crowns had stopped, except is J
dollars, and they were paid without any .
great hesitation by the persons who had
them at that rate. Bat he did not think J
we were wholly prepared to meet this incen- I
venience. He, therefore, thought it would i
be right to agree to the report of the com- '
mitt**, which allowed them to be received
at the custom-house, which would, in a great f
measure, remedy the evil arising from their 1
being declared not to be a legal tender in J
other cases. Gentlemen had observed that f
the country would be more affedted by this c
regulation thau the cities ; but, as it had "
been before dated, if a crown was worth '
no cents in one place, it would not be '
worth much less in any other. The incon
venience would be of fliort duration, as the
crowns wonld all flow to those parts where
they were received current. This observa
tion had been opposed by a faft that bank
bills in the interior of the country pass at a
depreciated rate ; but he thought that the
analogy would not hold. If a person had
five crowns, and was obliged to expend one <
of them, before he had an opportunity of
getting the full value for them, he would j
lose only a few cents, but in a bank note of
five dollars, if he wanted make use of a -
dollar, he would l'uffer a loss upon the whole I
note. He hoped the report would be jgr«ed
to.
- [.Debate to be continue J.]
i
Friday, December 15. '•
Mr. Pp.irg SrK.taut, from Neui-Hamp.
Jhire fin the place of Mr. Jeremiah Smith,
•who rejigned), appeared and <was qualified. J
Mr-, hDMOKDy from the committee of enrol- J
mrnt, reported the bill for suspending theftamp- J
aft ai duly enrolled, the Speaker signed it ac • \
cordingly.
Mr. IV kdswokth, from the committee to J
•whom was referred that part of the President's
Speech which related to the pnjlponing of the 1
meeting of Congreft, in certain cases, reported a
a bill, which was twice read, and committed "
for Monday. J'
Mr. DwiGttr Fostsk, from the committee
of clflims, made an unfavourable report on the
petition of Richard Shott, which was concur
red in ly the House-, £
Mr. Haiper, from the committee to whom 1
was referred certain resolution relative to the
mode of taking evidence in cases of contefled 1
eleSions, made a report recommending a law r
te be pajfed on the fubjeS, which was twice v
read and committed for Monday. 1
The SrtjKf.K having read over the orders
of the day, and no fubjeS being called, Mr. n
Dent moved that the House adjourn.
Adjourned to Monday.
a
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE. e
t
House of Representatives. a
December 15. 0
A memorial from the feleiSt and common a
council, of Philadelphia, praying leave to 1
ereft a permanent bridge over the river '
Schuylkill at the weft end of High-street, '
and that the revenue ariiing from sales at
auction may be appropriated towards it, was
presented, read and referred to a -committee. r _
A petition from a number of the inhabi- "
tants of Lycoming dating certain objeftions a
to the feat of Jacob Shoemaker, and pray- j 1
ing that Hugh White, who had the highest I v
number of votes may be permitted to P
take his fiat, was presented and read. , '
A petition from a number of the inhabi- i
tants of Montgomery county contesting the j 11
election of Nathaniel Bellew, was presented 0
and read, and Wsdnefday next was agreed c
«" upon for the appointment of a committee to
|c "try tlie eleftion.
The petition against the ele&ion of Jacob
it Shoemaker was read a second time, andto
d morrow assigned for (he formation of a com
f mittee to fry the eletliors;
! > Dr. Leib on the part of the committer
k reported a bill to declare certain roads with-
Y in this Commonwealth, State roads; which
t was read, and made the order of the day
e for
Y A resolution from the Senate presented by
n the. Clerk, appointing a committee to join a
™ committee of the Houfeof Reprefentarives,
i to prepare cngroffsd-iiills and pr«fcnt them
t to the governor for his approbation, was
1 rend.
' Mr. Warrell on *he£aft-of*the committee
s appointed to arrange the fubjeft matter of
) the Governor's address made report,
i Mr. Warrell on the part of the commit-
F tee to examine the Files and Journals of the
> late House and report the urrfmifhed business
- made further report in part.
' Mr. Evans laid a resolution on the table
; to appoint a committee to bring in a bill to
: perpetuate the a£ extending the powers of
i Jultices of the peace.
Adjourned.
: Sketch of the business in the House of Reprefen
tatrvesof this Statt, on the it to, 1 %tb, jjtb
, and \i,th rnjlants.
• 0" the itth, a committee waj appointed, in con
junction with a fimil»r one named by the Senate, to
: ! rewire rules to iemulate the intercourse between the
twohtftWes; a committee was also appointed to pre
pare ai answer <o t l ie Governor', address, and ano
ther to »rran ß e the lubjeft mailer of the address On
the mtti, the com mi tec of unfinished business, made
a report, the leveral fubj;£ts contained in whicn weic
referred to cframiueei: Mcffra. F. and R. Bailey
were cV'-'en printers ol the Journals : a message was
reteived front the Governor, inefofing several eom
rrunica ion, relative to the fever ivhien lately efflifted
i our city: a resolution wai agreed to for appoin ing
a crirnt nee *1" examine the ic vcj s 1 afta relative to
the improvrm nc of roads and highways. On the
itth pen ions were read from C„ W. P-.ilr, praying
patr'onage to his newly.jhveiited woodqi bridge* ;
from inhabitants of W»(tiing;dn county, praying the
removal of David A?kre<on from his feat, on account
of hisalientfe ; from |am's Kcad, praving for an in
crease of his fees of office : the latter was referred to
a rommitiee An addreft was reported iaanfwer ti
the Governor'! speech. Committees wereappoimed
111 examine the several a£h of assembly relative to the
recording of deeds and mortgages; and to take into
confideraticn the aft eflablifhinj the judicial courts of
thia commonwealth in conformity to the conllitution,
and to report whether any and what alterations ought
to be made therein. On the 14th, the committee to
whom w>i referr d the petition of the truflrca of
GrcrneCounty, reported agaiyft it i and that to whom
was referred the peiiiionof ccrtaininhabitamsofGreene
County, praying Duiker's Creek to be declared a
public highway, reported favorably. The commit
tee appointed to diaft rules for regulating the ioter
courfe between (he two hoijfes, and that appointed 10
prepare rules for the government of the house, both
reported, a bill wat reported to authorize the Go
vernor to incorporate a to erefl a perma
nent bridge over the river Schuylkill. Thecommit
, tee 10 whom waa referred the petition from citizens
; of> Chelfer and Lancafler counties, praying that the
I Governor may be authorized to appoint commifSon
era to fettle a line between the two counties, reported
favorably. Meffra. Curney, Ball, Leib, Linnardand
Preston, were appointed a committee to revise the
health laws. a petition from inhabitants of Walhing
ton againftlhe election of David ACbefoD,waa referred
to a committee. The answer 10 the governor's ad
dress was made the order of the day for Tuesday
next. Meirrs. HarriJ,; Beljewj "Jnider, Ketty, Pow
er, andMarfhall, appeared, and have been qualified.
PH'ILADE LP HI A,
SATURDAY EVENINO, DECEMBER 16.
PRICE Q,r,|,TO C KS.
Philadelphia, J 2th Dec. 1797.
6 per Cent. , iyf.
1 ptr C«nt. ' 1 1 o/6
Deferred 6 per Cent. i Tjf>
BANK United States, 26 per ct. advanco.
fennfylvaniat,; 17 to 18 do.
North America,. 50 do.
Insurance Co. Pennsylvania, fliarea per eent.
——N. A. fharcs 50 d O .
There art now building in this part for the
uft »f the Dey of Algiers, which, it is supposed
are to be paid f»r out of the fubjidy agreed to
be allowed by this Country to the Dey, for
his alliance, a Ship of jb guns, Brig, seventy
Jive feet heel, to mount 22 guns, and a Sch'r
Jixtyfive feet lee', to carry 18 guns. The
Jhip is building by Mr. Bovers, in Kensington
and the brig andfehotoer iy Mr Humphreys.
They are very handfomt vejfelj, and will
fotn be finijhed.
The United States schooner Hamdallah,
which lately failed from hence for Algiers, was
also pttrchafed in Baltimore for the Dey, and
was loaded with -ammunition and military
flores, for his uft.
Mr. Fehno,
Did Ibtlieve that therecognition-by Con-
I grefs, of the right of our merchants to arm ]
their vessels for defence again ft piracy in the
Weft Indies, and on our coast, involved ei
ther a (i open pr implicit declaration of di
rest hostility agaisft any particular nation 1
whatev<r, I should be as much opposed to
the raeafure as any citizen in the United ,
States, " A Friend to Laws and Freedom"
not exceptedr^—but this not being the cafe
I am clearly of opinion that in the present
tituation of affairs the rjght of merchants t* 1
arm their veffds, Ihouldbe no longer restrain
ed. Especially when it is notorious that
the vessels which moflly annoy our commerce
are of so small a size and so conterpptibly
equipped that a few fwrvels or small arms,
on board one of.teuTjnercttantmen, with the
addition of four hands more than
the ordinary complement would save proper
ty to an immense amount from falling into
the hands of those, unparalelled monsters.
It is therefore vefy delirable that Congress
(hould speedily recognize the exercise of a
right, which may produce the belt effedls
i'd restoring our almost languished commeree
and console the merchants, who may be said
to be the principal support of government,
with a hope that the government they sup
port is not altogether indifferent as to their
luecefs. ,
The" FriendtoLawsandFreedom"feems
to think that the inconveniences by spoliati
ons on our trade, fall upon the inhabitants
of the nations at war, inasmuch as the con- 1
a fume* of Our produce pays for if. bt fVch an
enhanced value as to include the e;;t: lordi
-3 'nary charges of, freight, infura . -. 3rc: &£.
- Indeed it .would seem to be our real 'intei cft
- to encourage, rather than oppose the pirates,
whose depredations -according to hrt reason
" iag, tend' to enrich our merchants, under
- writers and (hip carpenters—because as the
1 price of our produce is enhanced to the CUI>-
r Aimer in a greater proportion than the dif
ferences of info ranee—and as the high pre
' miumsour ynderwritersrequire enables them
1 to lose one fourth of the property they in
, sure—and as it encourages our {hip carpen
-1 ter3 to be canftantly building vessels to
i supply the deficiency occafiooed by captures
the advantage is clearly in our favor, and
therefore why attempt to oppose or prevent
what is so admirably calculated to increase
our wealth and prosperity !
Mr. Fen no, the whole statement of a
Friend to Laws and Freedom, is a misrepre
sentation proceeding. I presume, not from
intention to deceive, but from want of cor
real information of the a&ually distressed si
tuation of our Commerce, the effedis of
which, (notwithstanding the encouraging
letters of Merchants in Europe, to induce
our adventurers to speculate on their markets
and put commifliohs in their pockets) are
too strongly proved by the fitnation of our
Prison—the pamphlet of Mr. Swanwiekand
our own knowledge of many, very many
Merchants who have been ruined by the pi
ratical career of French Marauders, to ad
mit of a doubt.
RIGHT and JUSTICE.
ERRATA.
In the piece signed a " friend to laws and
freedom" in Thursday evening'spaper—for
interceptions of our commerce, read in
terruptions, &c. and for -secret mercantile
information, read—recent.
** % The Mail did not arrive 'till about
1 o'clock this day. It brings nothing of
importance.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived on Wednesday at Reedy-island,
Jhip Roba and Benfty, Nimmo. from Bris
tol, via Norfolk. Brig Cincinnatus, Bayley,
of Wilmington, 13 weeks from Liverpool.
Swift Packet, Oribbtn, II days from
Savannah, arrived at Marcus Hook On 1 hurt
day la/I.
By this day's Mail.
RICHMOND, (Vir.) Dec. 4.
On Thursday last came ok the ele6b'on
for governor or chief magiftraU of this com
monwealth, and the votei flood as follow :
For James Wood, 116
John Page, 38
The Senateofthiscomtßoawealth formed*
quorum nn Thursday the 7th inft. and ap
pointed Ludwell Lee, Esq. speaker ; Mr.
Humphrey Brooke, clerk ; and Mr. Ar
chibald Denham, ferjeant at arms.
GEORGE-TOWN. December «.
The publication of the Drawings of the Lot
tery will bt regularly continued from this
time. ■
WASHINGTON LOTTERY, No. 11.
List or Prizes and Blanks.
1,30 th day's Drawing—Sept. 30.
No. Dels. No. Dais. No. Dots. No. Dels.
546 14»76 »53'* 37773 10
580 479 10 4*4 903
910 1j«54 10 763 38163
1096 16126 16077 121 50
" a 63 TOl 189
73* 3J9 885 39J0X
*99* 394 to 27,509 017
4»3» 57° 795 H.i lo
43* <74 IO 18069 10 648
937 »7°47 *• *56 10 671
986 368 966 90C
539'
59' 'B*73 19*83 165
660 10 175 464 10 138 10
710 10 699 30119 41543 10 1
7368 836 185 10 647 20
1170 19*56 168 43011 1
9°94 35* 453 10 478 10
'59 48« 681 10 583
4*3 546 10 31117 44467 1
533 7U 383 10 4543*
761 919 3*99* 7*3
10355 *oosj 33617 941
71* I4J 50 716 46132
B*s 340 10 34**5 696
s 9* 845 44» 919
11200 »Hsj 10 481 10 47230 1
333 4*7 933 286 10
385 556 35345 1" 3*l
9°3 lo 898 073 525 to !
12164 958 10 614 10 909 10
290 971 10 691 48451
817 12091 to 774 751
I3«i8 381 to 985 985
238 611 36116 10 49371
843 io 13781 884 I 0 977 IO :
880 *s 247°3 37*'4 1
14186 830 318 ;
131 ft day's Drawing—O&ober a. '
9 JI >°797 *4136 36791
21C9 10 1*874 10 446 10 37386 10
174 to 901 10 927 649 10
269 m 13688 15618 926 10
401 10 757 869 10 38234 to
3052 16183 26006 389 10
078 284 446 39403
1 15 840 805 936
*3l 19147 10 #7217 40454
7«6 477 407 25 565
865 10 566 10 557 41152
883 803 is 182;1 J95
40x8 10 876 510 4 , 139 ic
$54 *0035 »o *99*5 44453
Beo ill 926 46010 r
573° 677 31001 083
814 HOl3 178 999 10 j
986 288 849 10 47330 10 1
67:6 761 3*5°3 379
8897 13196 951 48070 10 1
90CX 750 io 35316 935
.199 Jo 866 %s 430 48®44 1
461 14">oo 910 10 431 I
10044 I* 019 999 565 10
310 *4B 34588 le 795
' ;
■ ( \
t j
; , (BY D.SSIRE )
THIS EVENING,
u 1 December 16,
' Will» frifente.l a IRAGE.DY, calfed,'
Venice Preferyed;
Or, App ot Discovered.
I D "kc.'f Venice. Mr ,wai rrll; Priuli, nir. War,
rcn ; Bedamar, ror. Fox ; Pierre, mr. Cooper ;
Jahier mr. Moreton ; Renaault, mr. WmneH :
JJurand, mr. Mktthew ; Eiiiot, mr. 11 Warrcll :
BliiTcvt mr. Wairell, jun.
Belvidera mrs. Merry.
B twecn th:' Play and Farce; -
A DOUBLE HORNRIPE.
By mr. Wa'rell, jun. mi fa Milbourne.
To which will be added, a FARCE, in two ads.
called,
The Lying Valet.
Sharp, (the lying valft) mr. Bernard ; GayUfs,
mr. Warren ; Juilice Guttle, mr Francin v Beau
rnppet, mr. Warrcll, jun. Drunken Cook, mr.
Bhfiett.
Mclifla.mrs. Francis ; nir . Gad.il ouf, mri. Doc
tor ; mrs Trippct, miss Mill•urne ; Kitty Fry.
mrs. Morris.
0" The new Comedy of WIVES AS THEi"
WERE, AND MMDS AS.THEY ARE, which
was received with the utmost approbation—will he
repealed *lll Monday-
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery, half 3 Dollar.
y- doors of the Th3atre will open at five,
and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clock.
Places lor the Uoxe* to he taken at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till 1 o'clock,'
an ll. om Ic f '" 4 on 'Ue days of performance.
Ticketi to. be had at H. and Rice's book-rtore.
No. 50 Market-flreet, and at the Office adjoining
theTheare. VIVAT REHPUBLICA >
"irxxr:
MP .FRANCIS refpeflfuify in/ormshis fcholarg
ard the public in general, that his firlt Ball
will be on Tuesday, the 19th of December, at the
New Afl.mbly Room in south Fourth street, be
tween Chefnut and Walnut flreet.
Ladies' Ticket, to be had by applying to the
fcholart of Mr, Francis, or at his house. no. 70
north Eighth street.
Gentlemen'a Tickets, at one dollar each, to be
bad at the New AfTembly Room, or »f Ml F at
'" Bhoufe - December 16—$t
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
THE Shareholders are hereby notified, that aa
Klj °n ° °™ cerß or ensuing year, will be
held at the Company's office, n0.53, nonh Fourth
street, on Wednesday, the 10th day of Tanuary
next, at l» o'clock.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry.
December 16 eodtiothj
Creditors of BlairM'Clenachan,
and of Blair M'C.'enachan and Patrick Moore,
are requested to meet at the Coffee honfe, at fix
o clock, in the evening of th« 19th infl. A full
and pun&ual attendance ii required, at bufinefa
of importance will be brought to light.
December r6.
For Savannah,
(To fail on or before Sunday, the 44th inft. unlefa
prevented by the ice)
The faft failing Ship
Swift Packet,
>atn ' c k Gribben, Mafler.
T-T excellent accommoda*
r&z XJ. tions for paflengers.
Tor Freight or passage, apply to
N. & J. Frazier,
no *9J. south Front street.
IVho have for Sale, received by the fati /bib.
New RICE, in whole and half tierces.
December 16 . ( j lw
Oil THURSDAY next, the 10th inft.
At the Tontine Coffee-Houfe in New-Tor/},
Will be Sold without reserve, the
Ship SWIFT,
'V*- f» Burthen two hundred and nine
ty tons, a remarkable faft sailer,
•*** iw *** built, and well found.
Inventory to be seen on board, at the Old Slip
or at no. 178, Pearl-street, New-York.
December 16 ,j Jt
BY virtue of an order of the Orphan's Court
will be cxpofed to Sale, on the 16th current!
at 9 o'clock, a. m. at the premises, a fmallframe
■ House and Lot, situated on the corner of Spruce
and Eighth streets, ful.j 'S to an annual ground
rent of fifteen pounds, late the property of An
thony Lebeck, deceased.
MARGARET LEBECK, Adminijlratrix.
-December 16.
Alphabetical Lift of Duties~
Payable by law on all Good», Wares, and Me#
chandixe, imported into the United States—latef
edition, to be fold by JOHN ORWROD, no ai
Chefnut-firret. Dec '
WANTS A PLACE, """
As coachman, a black Man, win can produce
the bell recommendations, Enquire of the prin
ter" Dec. 16—dn
WANTED,
A PERSON that can produce unexceptionable
recommendation*, to perform a journey this
winter as far as the Ohio—Such an one will mtet
wi h encouraging terms, by applying at this office.
N. B. Some one acquainted with Hariifon
county, Virginia, and its neighborhood, would bs
Dec. Ij._
NOTICE.
THE Creditors of the Estate of Walter
Steivart deceased, are requested to meet on
Monday next at 6 o'clock in the evening
at the City Tavern—The business upon
which they are to deb'berate being of great
importance they are requested not to fail to
give their attendance.
Dec - qt
FOR S"LE, '
By JOHN MILLER, Just . Co:
No. 8, Chtfinut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty hales
bengal goods,
Amongst which are,
Gurraht Mamoodies
Eafta9 Sarmas
Gttzz ; nahs Tanda Coffacs
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall tfandkerchiefs
ArnongS them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna,
December i.
PhiladelphiaandLancafterl urn
pike Company.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that th?
annual Ele&ion for Officers for the ensuing
year,will be held at the Company's Office in Phila
lphia; on the second Monday ia January next, at
I® o'clfck, A. M. Wm. GOVETT, Sec'ry,
Decern! cr 7. a ts m&wt7jA farm for sale,
IN Perth Amboy in the state of New-Jerfey> ' '
of four hundred a.-res, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable and wood
land, and fait raarfh : There is on the premises,
a good apple orchard, and a variety of other
fruit trees, it is well watered with i'prir gs and
brooks, it is bounded on two fides with navi
gal.l e waters and has a good mill site, its fitua- j
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Amb.»y and its'
environs, and convenient to the fineft fifh and
ovfiers in their proper season, it abounds with
natural manure from which, with the advanta
ges o» the fait marsh by applying the hay there- ;
ftom to the keeping of stock, Ynay at a f/nall
expense, be enriched to a great degree and ren
dered one of the firft grazing farms in the state ,
it is well calculated for a farmer or a gentle
man's feat, having several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be fold together br
divided, as may suit a purchaser, at private
sale, or if not fold, willbefet up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the houfc of Robert ltattoone, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
theforenoon. Any person inclining topurchafe 1
may view the premiles by application to John
or-Matthias Haljied at Perth Amboy, from
whom or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Esq.
speaker of the house of representatives of the
United States now in Philadelphia, from Mat
thin j Williamfon,\wn. efq. or Mr. Sdmuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town further information may be
obtained, —and who are poffefled of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797.
15 —<w>dtißD
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propjQng to cantriQ his busi
ness, offers this Estate tor sale, on moderate '
lerms. On it arc one Blast and three Air Furnaces, j
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair oi- (tones ; also a good Forge, all I
in perfctt repair, as ate all the Water Works connett- j
ed with thcfc various branches. The Air Furnaces '
wrre lately built tor the purpose ot calling Cannon -
for th«s State. —There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other j
fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Canrion lately manufactured there,
tuliy proves the excellency of the rne'al, which is '
iuperior to any in this country, and probably* equal
to any in the world ; for not one of lixty-nir.e guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 3-j pounders, have failed on proving. The fuu
ation s very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of arms lying in the state j
of Connefticut, and only 30 miles from several land *
ings on the Hud fort's river, and having every advan
tage that can reful-t fr«m a plenty of water issuing c
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other f
ufeful purpofts. The purchaser can be accommodat- a
ed with all theiloekand utenfi's, and have pollcflion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation f
may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, scc. See. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel- -
phia; David Brooki, Esq. one of the Representatives
in Congress lor this State ; Mr, E)avid "Waterman, on r
the premiies, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee 1. gawtf *
Houie and Lots, in liordentown. '
r T~ I O BE SOLD, a handsome two story Houfc. 0
X with the Lot on which it is ereded, situated 0
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The heufe is forty two J
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main .
street, and extend*-with the fame breadth tobatk '!
street. Also, a laTge Lot, containing nearly four
acres, separated from the former by back street. v
One third only of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, fnch credit will be given as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold freo m
all incumbrances,and an iniUf[-ut.rDle title givenf il
For f»rtl»mTTsrtlcuTar6 enquire eithur of Dr. 1<
William Butnes, residing in Bordentown, near. I
the pr£mifes, who will (hew the fame, or of I J<
PETER THOMSON, V
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street.
December 2. 3»wtf
Real Estate for Sale,
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good G-
tuation on Chester Creek, in Middleten t
Townlhip, Delaware County, containing 119J V
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood E
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land m
and watered meadow—of the latter, tuany more ai
acres can be ma<de at a small expence. There are S]
on (aid premife6, a good orchard of best grafted R
fruit, a house, with ai spring near the door, a frame V
barn with stabling under, and a log tenement on
one part of said place.——Any person inclining
to purchase, may view the premises by applying ~
to Wm. Pennbll, on said farm, and know the 1
terms by applying to Jonathan Pennell, in the
borough of Chester.
November ai. * ' 3t eod
To be fold, r
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain- N
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Iriih traift lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
he made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
1 r
All Persons who are indebted to ro
the estate of William Hetsham, fen. of Phila- |y
delphia, deceased, are requcfted to make speedy th
payment; and those who have any demands a- _
gainst said estate, will please to present them, pro
perly attested, to the fubferibers. T
William Heylham, 1 of
Robert Hcyjham. J- Executors, tk
Francis Bowes Sayre, J,
november 6. aaw4w ," £
LAW BOOKS, ve
London and Dublin Editions. ce
H. £s° P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. iS, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the Ute arrivals Irom
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiftingef a variety of thelataft and most
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive colledion ev
er offered for sale in this country. They thei efore El
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
connediensin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrilh
•litions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latelt
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, a VwS. (
Peake's Cases at Nili Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord HaTdwicke ; Floyer's Prowlers
Pradice in the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton's £ j a
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pratfice of un '
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, 1
parts coaiplete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
'"h". and P. Rice expeiS to receive by the firft ar- L
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Purnford and East's Reports, the 2d part of Gil- D
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of I
new publications.
June a 6.
j A pet foil well acquainted with
I the theory and nra&iceof hook-keeping, whohas!aeen
h ' manyyearseugnged inbufineCstorhimfelf andother ,
" would be glad to be employed, eit her as an agent
or (aflor; or in polling books; dating unfcttled
B> accounts ; or in executing any other kind oi writ*
* ' n g» in French ori£ngli;ti.
P A note addrtfl'ed to J. A. and left at this office,
will be p.un&u&Uy attended to.
November so. 3awtf
a „ _
L- Thomas Ran dall,
h PRESENTS his refpefts to his Friends, and the
Public in general, ins orms them that he has opened
e- an Office, at Ms house, No. 88, Sprues street, for
.11 the purpose of tranfafling business in the line of
1- Com million anHAgir.cy, colic Airig rents and out
, /landing claims in any part of the United States.—
2- He flatters himfclf, that from his long refidonce in
jr this country and a general knowledge of it, his fei -
)r cices will be found worthy the no: ice of those who
e may please to confide to him the management of
any of their concerns,
j. N* B. Security given where required.
Ilth mo 24 3tawtf
n ~ ~FOR~S^LE,
l*e ' By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South
<n Water-street,
n A general aiTortmsnt of China
Ware
' e Black and coloured Sattim
: Do. do. LHteftriHgs
Do. de. Handkerchiefs,
Do. do. fewingjjiilks
" Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and short Naekeens
Quicksilver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in.pipes
Assorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
i- Molaffej, in hoglheads
e St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
s, London particular Madeira Wine
ft . Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter casks
" Red, yellow and pale Barks, inchests
- I Logwood, &c. &c.
5 "*" 7 — tu&f < w JOSEPH SIMS.
s For Sale, by the Package,
( j For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
viz.
j Book and Jaconet Mullins plain ")
,1 stripes, and Checks j ~ •
1, do. do. Tamboured !> Affo . r^ ln
d do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | P ac 3 S e5,
1- gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
e India market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
~ chintz Ihawls.
" The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
r portation. Also a few scotch cambricki and an
aflbrtment of muslin by the piece.
11 The whole of the above being a consignment
1 from the manufa<9urers in Britain.
* To be seen at William Blackburn's
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
r Nov. 6. lawtf.
* NOTICE.
a r I 'IIE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
X States, are informed that aecerding to the
ilatute of Incorporation a general Election for
twenty five Direflors will be held at the Bank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
* on Monday the Grft day of Janqary at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
AHd purfnant to the Eleventh fe&ion of the
' Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Bank
( arc hereby notified to assemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
' day of January next at five o'clock in the E
vening.
By order of the Board of dire&ori,
G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
Second fundamtntal \L- -
-Not more than three fourths of tne Drreflors
F in office, exclusive of the President, shall be e-
Ugible for the next succeeding year, t>u( the
. Direilor who shall be President at the time of an
F.leflion atwayjbe re-eledled.
Philadelphia, nov. rS. 1797. f tE
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Alfa, a general aflortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, consisting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hoar brass pinions
and fcrge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springe, Hands, GlafTes, Pumice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, (land and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
* # # Apprentices Wanted.
novemher 3. f&tutf
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oSavo.
By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 54, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
(Price, in boardt 87 I 1 Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A V lEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftabliftied in th« elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
With an attempt to correA some important er- I
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly feleded from the records of their practice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,'
Br William 7"atm & Chas. Mkcls.au.
To which is subjoined, a Treatise on the aiSion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion l'or the cure of diseases of indiretfl debility
And adiflertation on the sources of Epidemicand,
Pestilential dif«afes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induction of fatSs, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain viciflhudee of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Nov. 2-1 • Jut
This Day is Published,
BY McfT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric % and the
other Booksellers,
Price One Dollar end twenty-five cents,
MleganOy printed 9ti ■ iVove paper, and Hot
prcjfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Confutation, and
classing together their most impsrtant provisions,
under the several heads of admiuiftration ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
' United States.
Dedicated to th«Peop.leof the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
February 6 mwf
English Grammar,
The second edition, •with improvements,
A Dap TED to the different claffcs of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
fervatioas for allHting the mote advanced .students
to write with prrfpicuity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY. ,
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully
answers the profeffions in the Title. The appen
dix contains some of the bed rules for writing c
kgantly, and with propriety, that we recoiled to
have seen." *
Monthly Review, July 1796.
" This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory not>ce, its materials have been
carefully and judirioufly feleiSed ; its arrangement
is diftinet and weit adapttd to the purpose of in
llruiSion and its expreffiun is simple, perspicuous
and accurate, icci"
1 See the character at large in the Analytical
Review, July 1796
Englifli Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately published by
Lindley Murray, confining of exemplification of
the party of speech, instances of salsa orthography,
violations of the'rules of syntax, defers in punc
, tuation, and violations of the rules pefpe<sting
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit
of private learner, well as for theufe of schools.
" Wii have been much pleased with the pecuf&Z
of these Exercises. They occ*py with distinguish
ed excellence a mod important place in the fciencc
of the English language; and as fueh, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
attaining corre&nefs and precision in their native
tongue."
Montkh Review, July 1797.
The above Books are for sale at Joseph & James
Crukshanks book itore, No. 87, Market street.
December I. 3tawzw.
N O T 1 C E.
AI.L perform concerned are hereby notified,
that the fnhfcriber intends t<s apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for.,
warded them under cover of a letter addressed to
J -hn Anfley,of London, by the ihipßacchus, capt.
George, which Test this port ia June lalt for Lon
don. But that fliip having been captured on her
passage and fen t to France, the above letter and in
clofures have failti intheit deflination.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 2632,5, each for
four (hares, dated January ift, 1797, and
iflued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Grsat Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, novehtker 2aw6w
Wanted, to Hire,
\ l arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
Lthe centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken tor a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer.
OA. 17. eotf
A Compting House to let.
A Mod convenient Compting House is now for
xjl hire on Rofs's wharf, direclly over the arch.
For terms, apply to
Samuel Brec\, jun.
itb. 89, south Third street.
When may be had,
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about 100
pieces of ftoutCailvafs; a small quantity of Mace,
and fomc high proof Brandy ; Sherry Wine, Cho
colate in boxes, Window Glass of various sizes
and dimensions. Dec. I—eo6t
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE,,MOW OPENING,
At th«ir Warehouse, No. 17, Dock Street, a frelh
assortment of Woolen and other goods, Citable to
the season, jeceived by the ?«rivalt from Ijng-
U«d.
ft —J<w also fir Sale,
l.ifbon "\
Sherryf and ( P'P t9 > hh<Js ' aßd quarter calks-
Port Wines, 3
Assorted queen's ware io crates, &c.
loth mo- 43d. dlwjtawjw.
James C. & Samuel W. Fiflier,
AT THEIR STORE,
No. 13, corner of Arch and Front streets,
HArr. FOR SALE,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, assorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futt romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto 1
Ditto Psndicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffctics
4000 piccoi Nankeens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfo —1500 boxes heft London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —add 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, assorted, which they willdifpofe of cheaper
than any in the city.
noyember «8. 3awtf
Imported (via New York) 011 the
ship Hero, fronr Midra»aml Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagongcs Charconna Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked mudins
Gillis Roinals Bandannoes
Nillas & Penfiafocs Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
Mull Mullhankerchiefs Palempores
Patna do. Banares Opium
Lesser Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November 47 tuths4w
F(fR SALE, by
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Sfreet,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ill and ad
proof, just landed
2jt> bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Jurat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine / In pipes &
do. market do C qr. calks.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gia in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti candles and ftfain'd oil
Prime Bolton Jtfef.« >
Choice Halifax Sainton in barrels and half barrels
Do. Hcrwngindo do
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l ; aan
A few tons of Rulfia cordage
Russia f.atherbeds
Clover and Tjmothy feed in Jalk#
Long whale-bone
No 1, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyi'on tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
November 8. diw.
400,000 weight of choice &t. Do
mingo COt FEE,
FOR. SALE BY
JAMES YARD.
November 22. diot
nevember it
For Sale,
Thai well known place, called Pandegrift's
ft RR Y,
ON Neftiaminy creek, 18 miles from Phila
ladelphia, on the New York port roail,
containing 74 acres and 94 perchfes. Upon the
premises are a Urge two itory stone house occu
pied asatvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threfliing
floor, and lomc out buildings—also a well o.
good water, and an excellent ice IJoufe. On
this place is a raoll elegant situation fora gentle
man s (eat, commanding a view of thf Nefham
iny to its jundtion iviih the UelawarS, and thence
across to the Jerfty shore. It lias the privilege
of one half the toll received from the liridge.
Tor terms applv to the Sphfcrlber,
MORpECAI LKVV'tS.
May 24. itawtf.
F»r sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A'valuible Lot 0/ Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eittCorner of Wal.
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet fronit
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thitteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c.fituateon
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saffafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thcfe houses
ave the conveniance of a public alley adjaihing
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fadtor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
JuJ} Publijhed,
And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal BookfclJers in the
city,price one dollar, twinty-fWe cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June 20. *6t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUN G,
No. a, Second-street, cornjr of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS npw ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of Engllfl, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL. BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout tho United State*.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 to. price 3 dols.
Ditto, targe 11 mo price t dol. 75 tfs.
Ditti, common, price I dol. s©cts.
All fqrts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
sheathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, «f
the tied quality, used in the oounting house, or
public office.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleifliou qf
BOOJCS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. o<st. 24.—3aw6w
The Norfolk MailStAGEr
THIS Stage starts fiom the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every TuefJay, Tburflty, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, ia the irorning ; arrives at Tk>-
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paHengcrs find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuefd<iy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday; puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
<foy.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles lc(s than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot befaid in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a ftage,for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft ii. dim. eotf.
City of Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. II r
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent Hweiling-houfe io,ooo dollars,
Sc. calh 30,000, are jo.qov
I dittp 15,000 & cast 4.5,00s 40,00®
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,00?
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 4 calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cad) 5,000 io,ik>o
1 cash prize of 10,000
» do. s,oooeach,are a • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
io do. 300 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
aoo da. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. > - - 10,000
1,000 do. to - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 • 150,000
16,M9 Prizes
-33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
Apd approved notes, securing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecime'n of
the private buildings to be ertiled in the City ci
Walhington—Two beautiful designs arc r.lteady
{elected for the entire tronts 011 two of the public
squares; from these drawing? it ispropofed toereftt
two centre and c our corner buildings as soon aspof
fibleafter this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir
the manner dcfcribed in the fchemc for the Hotel
I-ottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for frfce National Univerfi'ty, to
be erected within the city of Walhington.
The rcalfecuritiesgiven for the paymont of the
Prizes, 3re held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued ar
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tiekets may be had at the Hank o4 Colum
bia ; cl James Welt & Co. Baltimore; of Feter .
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond :
and of Richard Walls, Cooper's Ferry. »iwi
FOR SALE,
»v THE soDscsißtlu, No. ai, Penn-flrect,
Ihe Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,, fxom Bengal,
Goxftjlir.g of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
CofTaes Puujtmi Cicths
Sarahs Guzz.y do*
Hunihtims Cbarc&fflSa Dorea
Blue Cloth Taniibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmals
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagdnges Hhkfs.
Ginghams Miilmul do.
Guzzenas Bandannoss
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcors Choppa Romala
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perfiatis of various colours
Mock Pulicats
%oq tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open and exposed fto sale it
that commodious (lore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth street. no-rf. 10.
LANDING,
From on board the ship Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from Loudon,
60 toss of the best clean Russia
HEMP
60 rafks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
F bfSale by the ftibfcribers, No. 11, Fenn-flreet.
Willings & Francis.
o£l. 31. d
Just arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the fubftri
bers, No. ai, Penn-ftreec,
Gai hogfhead»,"\
S IS > Prime Coffee
646 bags j
Willings £s° Francis.
OA. aS.
FOR SALE—by the Subscribers,
An elegant aflbrtinent of Madrafs
H-ANfcKERCHIEFS, by the bale.
WILLINGS fcf FRANCIS,
"ov- ai. § Penn-ftreet.
for'sale;
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Lifben WINE, in pipes
CLOVES and 7 ruin.- • i
NUTMEGS \ latelt importation, in boxes
Spanish Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. ax.
Nov. 1. w&stf
A Journeyman Hair-Drefler,
WHO ' s er ant * an( l understands
» » his buf.nefa, may have immediate em
ployment, on application to GEORGE AB
; BOTT, No .91 Chefnut-ftreet. Nov. 37.
Imported intheftupMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Snewell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. ii Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irilh market claret in cases / Entitled to
Medoc wint, in do. J Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufliels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf-
Pl: ale's Museum.
THIS valuable repoficory of tfie works of Na- 1
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the under Handing* is opened daily, as
usual. It llands in an airy and healthy situation,
and free from the epidemic that at present afflids
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
tlie greatest fafety.
As an Aiv.ufcment, the study of Nature is the
most rational ai>d plcaiiug : as a Science, the most
sublime and inflru&ive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
" Whom Nature's tuorJci can ebarrn t ivitb (Sod himfelf
" Hold convcrfs
Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Museum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
fubje&s, is now very advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as lifs (some of them
carts from nature.) are here drefled in their proper
habits, and placed :n ateitudescbara&eriilic of their
rel'pedive nations. Here may be seen the North-
American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chincfe Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
with some Natives of the South Sea Islands. The
immense variety and interesting diversity which
this Museum offers to the view, may befeonbut
oannot be described with full effsdt.
Price only i-4th of a dollar.
Se.yt. aB. law
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time pad in prepara.
tion» for removing into his present house, ha*
been under theneceflityof poflponinguntil this day
ihfortri g the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United State*, that his fprirg importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, 01l
termsthat he trulls will entitle him tothalike pre*
friencu he has experienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the most varied colkc
tion ever imported i<ito this country, are printed,
and will be delivered on application.
June 47. law
Boston Glals Manufactory.,
Hf "ME citizens of the United States are he.reby
JL informed, that the ir.aniifailure of Window
G;afs is now commenced u the Glass House in Bos
ton.
It is needl-f* to fay Hny thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States ro be in every rcfpe&
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kupfer, at the Glass I-£riufc.
Orders from the distant States to be addrefTed to
Mr. Samuel Gor?, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30,1797. O 4—2awfiw
JVIfJ/rs. Timothy and Maftit, Cbarlcfou ; Mcjfrs.
Hud},' '""i Btylan, Halifax, N. C, Mejfrs. IVilUtt
and O'Connor, NorfM j Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
MtJJrs. Tundt and Broiun, Baltimore ; Mr. Hoplins,
Ken-Tori ; and Aifffrs. Hujfc-n Gooihvin, Hart
ford; Mr. Heymtur, Savannah ; are rrquejied to inferl
the above once a -week 6 ire-h. The accsMhtj to be for
zi'Crdcd io the Editor,