of tijc anb -Phiiadelphia Advertiser\
Number 164-3.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
Far DRY GOODS.
C Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
Monday) /o«th Front-street,
J Afternoon—Footman & Co. N«. 65
C. South Ffopt-fireet.
(' Forenoon-*-John Connetly, Old City
jfaefday< Audlion, No. 73 fou/h Front-llreet.
y Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
Wedxefdaj \ Af } cr " oo ",~' Pe ' er ae nf°n> No. 74
J \ south Third-ftrcet.
Tburjday \ F°"noon—Edward Fox.
I Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday J Forenoon—Willtara Shannon,
t 5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon— Peter Benfon.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private fall)
/"\N Mondaythe firftdayof January next, at fix
VV o'clock in the eve/iing, at jhe Merchant*' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Twenty-Six Thousand
Seven Hundred and Eighty acrra of LAND, in the
State of New«Yoik, between the northern bounds
ol Prnnfylvania and the Sw'quehaana, now, or late
in the townlhips of Hamdcn aod Warren, and coun- j
ty of Montgomery. One io»rth of the purcfaafe j
money to be paid at the time of sale ; for the reftdue |
credit of one, two and three mouths, will be given,
on interaft and good security.
P c 4- 3taw*S.
To be bold at Public Vendue,
t (If Opt before disposed of at private sale)
Monday the tirft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun-
Ai'd Thirty-Nine LAN® -fn Giren "
county, Comm«nwealth of Pennfylvaniaton'tlu Wa
ters of Filh and Wheeling Crtek, aod teu Mile Run.
Tlielc lands are fertile, well timbered ard abound in
coal; tbey were {.fold ten years ago for 5s per acre,
patented eailyinl7B.7, except 3,700, which were pa
tented in :79a ; the greatest part of them were sur
veyed in 1783.
This traft is between the Ohio and Monongahela,
very convenient to water carriage—about 19 miles from
the town of Walhington, and from 141016 from the
villages of Greenfburgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the purchase money is to be paid at the time of
sale; for the relidue a credit of one, two, and three
months will be given, on interest and good security. >
Dec. 1. l3>awtj
NOW landingT *
From on board the Ihip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Clafet in hhds.
Ditto in c*fes
Sauterne Wine in do.
i For Sale, apply to
Joint Whittjide & Co.
No. 138, S ariet.ftreet.
Also, »n hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pi£es
Fine otd Antigua Rum
A few cajts of Claret, of a superior quality,
november V).
tr '
_ The time-os a Negro Boy,
About flftern yeattof age r Ji»s ieveo years ytt" *
to serve ; he is an excellent hoafe fervaut, a<stivc
aridheal'.hy. Enquire of tfecftlnter. ,
December 1. diw 1 |
Jla Gentlemen ' who intend /pending
the Winter in the City. 1
RVOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. Bcl. 17. —dlf
COLUMBIA HOUSE |
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. OIiOOMBRIDGE with muc,h pleaf
tireand'refpefl, returns her lincert ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years reiideMe is
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending tp decline her -
l'chool, she ha« made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her I
fcbolars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly, attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
r«fpe£Hveprofrffion§.
Corner of Sprue* and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. simftf
The situation is perfectly healtky ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houft.
This Day Publiihed,
And to bt fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, «orn«rof '
Second and Chefnut streets, n
Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
Ob/ervations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of .
" The History of the United States for '
the year 1796," -
In which the charge of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is EULLY
REFUTED.
WHITEN Br BIMSBir.
This publication presents a concise statement '
«f the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the "
United States to asperse the charaders of thofc
person s who arc conlidered as hostile to their difor- 1
gaoizing schemes. It also contains the cor- cl
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs. 01
Monroe, Mtthlenburgh and Venable, on the sub-
Je<s of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.Ha-
mllton, proving beyond the poftibility of a doubt, |
Jjhat the connexion between hqn and Reynolds,
was the rcfult of 4 daring coiUKaey on the part
of the latter and his aflociates money. B
A discount of one third Prmn the retail price
will be made in favor el wholesale purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addrelTed to Mr. Youn«.
Augvfl .
Landing,
Frohi on board the Oiip Edv.-ard, at Walnut
ftreet Wharf, i
London particular Madeira Wine, 6
of a superior quality, For Sale by the fubfcril r.
Robert Andrews. m
november 3. ' eotf
' TO BE SOLD;
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country, ,r 0
That three story Brick House,
No. 157, north Third ftrctrt. Apply at the of- Ju
(Ice of litis Gazette. nev zj~ w&s.jw wl
PHILADEL PHI A:
For Londonderry,
The American Ship
BOSTON PACKET,
6 > Coppe^tmwait, Master,
/ V* B S at Mifflin's Wharf,
S near Vine-flreet—Has elegant accommodations for
passengers— -will fail, weathsr permitting, on or
*7 about the loth itift. hiving all her cargo engaged
ft. ready to go on board. For paflWge only, apply to
o. the captain.
Smith & Ridgway,
4 No 4, North Water fttreet,or to'
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
No. 5, South Water street.
December i §iot
Jfcor Amsterdam,
' EDW?RD,
1X James Wickham, Majier,
f- ! to fail in a few days, having two
id -1-* thirds of her cargo already engaged,and near
ie ly on board. For Freight or Passage, apply to
Is the Master on board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to
[I j "John Donnaldfon,
fe No. ii, Walnut-street.
re | november tB. dgt
THE SHIP
,g£Sv COMMERCE,
Captain Ricuakd Waistcoat,
• Prom Liverpool is now discharging
x at -vlorris's wharf, near the Drawbridge, where
e owners of goods on freight, will please fpeedily,to
. fend their permits. Said vrffel wiil dire&ly -after
if ***fre freight on very low terms for Boftou. Ap
* fity to s he captain, or
isaac Hafvey, jitn.
N«. 5, South Water Street.
I A few t«ns of stone, or sand ballad wanted.—
. Apply asabove. November ij—sjot.
For Amsterdam,
' Fa rC M p£ r >
• J ftHN M'Ccllom, Master ;
WILL fail in a few days, the
rea t fl . p lrt e f j, cr car g o being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage. apply to the master on board, at W»lnut»
i street wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who ii Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter caOts
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, )_
Sauterne, > Wises in cases
Lunille, )
-*■ J*rui:e« in boxes
navftnber *4. $
For Liverpool,
V—*. The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet, (
Captain Silas Swain.
£3 A Large proportion of her
1 f\. beiug ready to gotm 1
I board, it expeflcd to fail uu or aboufSjaday, the I
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain o»
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to (
PHILIP NICKLIN & Co. 1
november »i. $
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler y '
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with excellent
accommodations for passengers
Sails on the ioth of December. For Freight .or
Passage, apply to ROSS & SIMSON.
IVLb have to difpqfe of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
novtmber 18. §
Rundle & Leech, 1
Have just received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut-street,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. best house CO * LS
Queens' WARE in cases, assorted s
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
jVja-, THty "AVt ALSO
f-WjL For SALE or CHARTER, r
P EJG GY, J
Burthen 115 tons, in axcellent condition, and t]
may be sent to sea with little expenceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILLIAM,
Burthen aoi tons,
november 16. . . $
For Sale or Charter, r
The fad failing brig
Brothers,
t- rrT™- Lying at Gorling's wharf,
an excellent fi»gle dcck'd vessel, burthen ahotit
1600 barrels— not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the master
on beard, or to
*Jofeph Anthony £2* Ct.
Nov. diw.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By ship Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and *
Peggy, Oporto, in Pipes and Hogfheadl, \
For falwby
PETER BLIGHT. -1
v WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
The Ship _ S '
AM I 7%, |
11 Four thousand barrels burthen, in
excellent order—ready to take to
in a cargo—about three years old. tit
likewise, ri.
The Schooner Industry, u
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car-
go —and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above at South street by
wharf. eoim. Nov. >.
R y John Fenno, N" 119 Cbefnut Street.
THE BRIGANTIVE
SUKEY;
■ Wl" > ' *»«vrsn. Master.
rt, ■' A vkivl,
ihout t\Vo
or hundred tons, to ill convenient speed, a
°a sr . e " P Jrt ot hf r, cargo .-Ugagttd—now lying 'at
ed Willing and For freight or paf
to fare, apply to the captain, or
, JOHN SKYRIN,
Lanctertltirger't ivharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A V*asEL of about three hundred tons.
nov 10.
For Sale 01* Charter,
H. GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about laoo barrels,and
'* rcad y to tate in a cargo. For terms
apply to
° Pragers Ef? Co.
o No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lilbon, and Tcneriffe wine.
November 7, c j t f^
~ - - -•- - ... 1
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut ftreef Wharf,
HavannahSugajs, whiteandbrown
r 25 hhds. Jamaica doi
c 3°°° pi ccc « of broad Nankeens
3 T f a, in quarters and eighths«f chefti
r QuickCivcr in tubs> * ,? . . ?
. Madeira Wine in pipei and
1 encri/Te VVioe in pipe'
Old led Port Wine inhogftead.
Sail Canvass, airorted, No. i to 8
8 cases of Manchester Goods, con filling of Dimities,
Muflinets, Ginghams,Thickfctts,dorduroyß, &o.
, »oo crates Queens' Ware, assorted
Nails, assorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in calks
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter calks Gun Powder
7iey Ltnt atfifcr SALE cr CHARTER,
TheJhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
good vessel, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for sea in a Jew days.
The whole ol the above vcffclt to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. § nov , jp.
Uriah Smith,
No. 10, north Third street—has for sale,
A neat and general assortment of
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
and Drab Coatings. also,
A variety of Gentlemens' falhionable fancy Waift
coating, fifk Hoficry, &c.
December 5. *eodiw
Chocolate and Mustard,
•f a superior quality -mfcnufadlurcdj
GINGER and Pepper, grouod ; shelled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Tauston and Button Ale ;
Lontfon Portfr ; redj Portend l.ilhon'WW*,
suitable for exportation or home consumption.
The highest price given for Myfeard-Seed.
Also for sale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bate of 1
Fullians, Shawls, &c, for sale by
JOHN HAWORTH, ;
No. 98, south Front-flreet. |
nov. 17. m.&th.t.ij. j
BEEF. i
Prime Beef, fit for India voyages, for sale by 1
WILLIAM SHEAFF, '
, No. 168, '
Also, about fifteen hundred weight of Bees- '
Wax. dtf NoV- %r, 1797.
Landing this day, '
From on board tb» fchooner*TwJ Friends, Dan
lei Crawley, Master,
'"1 J*™" RUM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son. r
uovember 9. §
James Richard §mith,
TAKE the liberty of informing friends I,
and the public, that they haVe removed their b
(lore to No. 54, Setttb Front Jbrcct, hcxt d»or to Ed- lj
ward Fox's AutSioh Room, where they have at 3
this time for sale, a large and general assortment of |j
European If Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier, »
&c. &c.
Oft.»?. ff j
NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of th* Ship Concord, ]
Captain Thompson, from Bitavia. J
About 300 tons firft quality Java Coffee (the a
whole having he«n feletfted) P
80 tons Java Sugar, in canillers and bags ft
10 legures of old Arrack t<
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves f<
70* titM Br ' *
PETER BLIGHT.
IVho also offers For Sale,
Just landed from Ihip Amity, from Jamaica. tl
aos hhds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum. c ]
november 13. d6w
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
1
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth ft
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN'. Lottery -
and Brokers Office, No. 64, Sautn Secoitd-fireet—
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, nt Ten o
Dollars, whete check books are kept ior regifty.
ing and examining in these, the City of W.iihntg- In
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and iniorma. S®
tion where tickets may be had m most of the Lotte- a
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufinef. of'a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock ami Securities,
difcountirg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale- of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN. ht
noveml r 15. § vI l
THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 14, 1797
For Londonderry,
A Fifty Dollar Bank Note,
Of the Bank of the United State®, wasloft on Sa
turday Ia(l, between the Bank of the Onited States
and the Horf; market—lf an hone it pcrfou has
found it, and will leave it w'th the Printer h- roof;
they ihal! be hanciiomely rewarded.
December 11. t(!^t
a t Bonk of North A;n erica.
f- THEStockholders are hcrtby notified,' (ha' air
election for twelve Dire&ors, for the enfijing year,
will he at the 3a::k on Monday, the Bth of
January next. at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Csfbur.
December n. dtgthj
_ Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, tint the
eleilion for I'rtfident and Managers, for the eni'u
ing year, will be held at the compaey's office, on
the fitft Monday in January next, at roo'clock.A.M. ■
i WM. MOORE SMITH, Scc'ry.
is 'December 11. niwikftlftrnj
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby no.ified, that the
d ekaioti for and Managers for the enfu
ingyear, will be held at the company's office, on
thr firft Monday in January next, at 10 o'clock,
" A - M - Dec. W- raw&ftiftmj
{? Those who are Creditors of
the late firm of ER ASMUS JACKSON & Co. or
of J. MUSSI, are requested to attend at a meeting
1 to be held on futfday the uthinft. at M'Shane't
Tavern, in Third Street between Market and Mul
berry Street, at 6 o'clock in the evening, o
December n
New Aflembly Room,
South Fourth Hfttt, between Cfcefnut and Walnut
streets.
Mr, FRANCIS,
OF THE NEW-THEATRE,
RESPECTFULLY informs his scholars and the
public in general, that his Academy for Danc
ing will commence, for the season, on Thursday,
December I?, at the above
ELEGANT ROOM ;
When he hopes to receive the continuance of their
accustomed patronage, which it will be his unre
mitting endeavor to deserve.
The dayt of teaching for hit young pupils are
Thnrfday» and Saturdays, from 3 o'clock in the
aiternoon till 6, and from 6 till 9, for those of a
more advanced age.
At an accommodation to those living in thit vi
cinage, Mr. Francis intends to inftruA a small '
party of children on Wedacfday and Friday-after
noons, at ha house.
Diftindt from the Pra&ifing Balls, Mr. Francii
will have four private feleft Subscription Balls.
Private teaching, either at the Academy, or his
house.
Mr. Fkancis'i firft Pra<ftifing Ball will be on
Tuesday, 19th Bee. at the New Assembly Reom.
Ladies and Genriemen't tickets to be had, by
applying to Mr. F. at usual.
For further particulars, enquire of Mr. F. No
70, north Eighth street. Dec. H—mwf t f
MUSIC.
J, L. L ENZ,
Teacher ol Vocal and instrumental Music,
1) ETURNS hisfincere thanks to the Ladies and
rV gentlemen, from whom he received a very
liberal oncouragement fmce his residence in this ci
ty, and rrfpe&fully informs his friends and the pub
lie generally, that, in conference (J! the request
of fame »f bit friends, he hat oponed a Musical
School at hishoufo in Spruce Street No 174, where
he: will teach oh the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c
He deenrj it uiineccflary to enlarge upon tfacad
vantages the learner will derive from an inliituti
on of this kind; lie will only fay, that attention
and zeal are much excited in an aiTmbly, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame objed. His
arrangement is such, that an interference of the
the different fexet will be avoided. Those Ladies "
andGcutltu.Kn who cann ® make it convenient to
attend at hit fchuol, he will wait upon at their t
houses Applications will be thankfully receiv- t
ed at hit house, where his terms and further parti- v
culart may be known.
7» *rweod J
Samuel Pleafants & Sons, «
No. 74, South SecondJtreel,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS, i
which they are now opening for sale, on
rcafonable terms. Git 17. 4 ,v f
All Persons
Having any demands agamft the Efttte of the '
late Captain Gcotge Irwin, are reqtufted to
bring in their account! pioperly attested, dn or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are so t
licited to make immediate payment to ,
SaRAH IRWIN, Administratrix. ,
nov.% 9 1797. * <
Musical Injlrument Manufactory, >
167, Arch-street. 1
TO THE LOTERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he haj
now ready for sale, a few of hit »ew invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, wit'h 1
Pedals, patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for l'enfibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, Simplicity and durability of conftru-Stion, the
faperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a single tri- j
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—At they
are manufactured under his .immediate iijfpeftion,
of the very beS; seasoned materials, he can fell 011
reasonable terms for Cash. Instruments repairad, .
tuned, &c. "
N. B. .Second hand Piano Fortet taken in ex
change for new.
novemter 18. aawamo.
Wants a place,
AS a Wet Nurse, a young woman, who can
bewell recommended. Inquire in Eleventh ~
street, near Kace-Areet. no-v. 37.
*eod 1 w. r<
___ '5
FOR SALE, tJ
Several fonts of Types—half worn. L
Including Long Frimer, about 400 weight, ia 1
good condition, and would answer the purpose of oi
a country printer as well asirew. ti
Enquire of the Printer. Nov. 30. A
Ait laying Ditties on Stamped Vellu m p
Parchment and Paper. |V ;
ct
A FEW copies of the above giaybshadaj
he Office of the Gazette of thtTUited States, N« C
.119, «hefhut-ft»eet. July 19,
JUST RECEIVED,
n- ' (via Ncv-York)
CS AND KO»' opuinc, IT
% George Do, dson,
N« IS, south Third IVcet,
■* An.cxtqcfi.vc and general of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
11 L-ondoa mixt Pins Galloons ani F«rrets
,f ««?»•» <io - do. Worded Binding, affor-
Makeuzie.'s fiip.tr,patent ted colours
wmte chapel Nieaies Imperial, diaper, i'n<l
Nuns Thread no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aflcrted V! hitc Edgings
Lisle do. no. 150 to joo, Black mi coloured Ch.-
repilarly afl'orted nefe Ribbands
e Coloured do. Sattin and figured dp.
. Black fewiog Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to 11J
1 Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Satins
. Silk and cotton Wires French Cambric's
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt MouMs and Wires Phrni gilt and plated
Black brulh Feathers Buttons 1
And a compleat afl"ortment of Geodf, suitable
to the pr<"fent and approaching fcafon, at reduced
" I' r 'c?" _ Dec. 6. <Jif
, the partnership of
Richard Jatnes Potter,
IS thi> day dissolved, by mutual cor.fcui All
pcrfon* indelted to the laid firm, are rrtjucfied
I to pay the fame to either of the fuljferibers; ard
r all perforis having any demands Jgjinlt them, art
, requeued to fend their account" for fettleme&t.
5 Richard Potter,
Jams Potter.
December 9. e
The Subftnber intends to make
application (or the lenewal of a Certificate of a Share
in,the Bank %i the United States, (lauding in the name
No. $604, doled Jaly ii, 1 the fame
having been lolt. JOHN ORaHAM.
Richmond, Dec. i.
ROSS Iff SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal SoTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, "J
St. Vincents, C RUM.
and Bengal j ►
300 cases RICE, iwtd
A parcel of Ihip building RED CEDAR.
Ofl. 27.
MRS. GRATTAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Ge#-
tlemen of the City, that (he propoies having
Four CONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Si* Dollats each Subfcriher, for one Ticket of
admittance during the season.
No Subscribers Tickets transferable.
Two Dollars a single Hicket. '
The Concert; to kegin at half pad fix, and the
Band to attend for the Ball at eigha*—the ctpiocs
of which Mrs. Gbattan engage* to discharge.
The Concc hi will begin as soon as the Band ar
rives from Now York.
s£s" Subfcriptians received, and Tickets deliv
ered at No. 191, Market street.
Bo»emb«*, 29. . "
For bale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in qjjhote and half tierces
Bowdeaux Brandy
Tenerijjc Wine
Malajjes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
RttTenj Duck and one hop/head tif fiailt
brujha. * r
N. C 3" J. Frozen,
No. 95, Uontb Front Street.
Ncn >- Jim
DANCING SCHOOL,'
M'DOUGALL prefants bis
V V n.ioft compliments to his farm
er employers and the citizens in general, and re
turns his moll grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he h»s expetienced for
thele twenty-five years part, takes this opportu
nity of informing them; that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut ami
"Wahuit-ftreets. To begin at lo in the morning
tor young ladies, and 6 in the evening for young
gentlemen.
His firft Pra<ft icing Ball will be to-morrow
evening, Saturday, the 9th inft.
Dec. 8. lawtf.
—— ——
FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellent Horses,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horfet are all
young, strong, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as rnoft in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are ftropg, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Cheller county, ortto
Thomas Fi/her,
No. 142, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
it mo. 2, eodjw.
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY-IS PUBLISHED, in one vol.oftavo.
By William Young, Booi/eHer,
No. J2, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
(Price, in boards, 8712 Cuts J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles established in the element*
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. B.
\\ ith an attempt to corrqfl some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief,
ly felefled from the records of their pra<aicf, at
the General Hofpttal at Calcutta,
Br William Tatec y Chas. Maclean.
To which is fubj»ined, a Treatise on the afiion
of Mercury upon livicg bodies, and its applica
tion lor the cure of diseases of indirea debility
And adiftertation on the sources of Epic'icmicandr
Peftilentialdif»afes; in whichisattempti.'dtoprove
by a numerousinduiUon of fads, thru they ne
|Ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain Hates, or certain vicifciudas of
the atmosphere, by Charles MaClean of
CtlcutM. '
nov. 21.
[Volume XIIXljC@a3Cttf. g
P HILA DE LP HI A, „
THURSDAY EVENING, DF.CIiiWfiF.X 14. cl
Forthe Gazette of the United States" pi
IK. fe:;no, al
At the table of a friend a few days ago, '
when the fybjeft of the French [puliation# r
was topic of converfatiori, a gentle in in pre
•fenr ftreiiHpufly advocated the arneing our ,
niei:clisi>t veffeta, and at length-deelated in
the hoileft and warmth cf his rtTent- 1
ment, that '-' he would arm his (hips and 0
theylhojiy fight theirway"; that he "would 11
do the (/me aflSjinft any nation, being one of
the nK'nuriaitlb to Congress (when Great- 15
Brit/,n aftcd'thfc fame part) recommending
hcJ'.ilities being commenced againf< her''—
being* alked "if he did not think it for- P
' tunalc that Cbrtgtcfs did not adopt the measure >
at that time so recommended," he ingenuously
confefftd he did and that their v/ifjom ivas 1
evident Lr the event. ,
This fubjeft being now before the house c
eif rsprefentatives and a bill aboijt to be in
troduced, I cannot refrain from offering a
feyv thoughts «n the occasion.
It is generally considered that every mer- 1
chant. tkas a right to adventure his property 1
as he thinks fit, and if exposed to unjust a
hazard tp defend it ; but though this is not '
now inUndtd to be denied, it must be e- c
qually admitted that he has no right to i
hazard the 'property, or compromit the 1
peace of others, or of his country. The J
i:n:iu'.bcri%ed a3 cf an individual, and the or
/ "s or fnnSion of a nation, are to be conjider
sd differently.
Before thofu difficulties of which we com-
pk'iu, onr produte was abundant and there
fore low in ell the Wrjl-India ijlands (the '
chief rr.aikets for its ventj ; now it is not
so plenty, the tupplies ai®e more uncertain j
and precarious 9 and prices consequently and
naturally higher, augmented in greater propor
tions than the difference of insurance. Who
pays this encreafe bf price ? is it not the con
sumer ? certainly it is—every man who eats '
bread in <the Wejl-Indies, or requires ajhingle
or a board contributes to pay for the insurance
of ourJhips and cargoes. It is evidently and
unquestionably the interest of those who eat
the most of it to gaard and profeft this com
mcree, and thereby the danger to
which their necejfifries of life are exposed.
Is there any price to which the chief ar
ticles of onr export cas be raised during war
tfme that will prevent thsir being demanded
coufumed in the islands ? every man
who kas been there, will £ay no—they can
«ot get them through any other channel,
and cannot do without the<m ; but is is said
that every vefTel taken is so much Iwfs to the
Country, which is conceived to be amiftake, 1
except when uninsured ; and if imprudent
men, urged by too great an avidity for gain are I
thereby disappointed, it is net the interceptions of
our commerce they are to complain of; that o-
Bininti however is right as to* vefiels that
Foundftr or are wrecked, whethrtr insured or
not ; the difference is material between the
two pcHfitkjps, and it is neceffarf to be just
ly comp-ehended in order to a trua judg
ment jor proper inference.
If four vessels be insured to an island a»d
back at 30 per cent, and ene is t:\ken, the
* owners of those that ani'ie get a greater sum
for their cargoes, and fafficient to pay for
the cqft, freight and premium of infurauee,
which they bring home is da it with, and the
underwriters arc enabled to pay the loss of
the one taken by the
that Arrived— it is otherwise when a vessel
is wracked or founders—then it its a nation
al loss.
But will arming our vessels tend ito reduce
prerniuirs of insurance ? it is conceived not,
for the French will add (Irength to their
crifiztra fufficient to contend for prize mo
ney and plunder ; and if premiums a#e low
ered, will more of our flour, fi(h, bread,
ria e, or provisions of any fort be eaten,pr will
they bring better prices or leave so good a
profit ? this applies equally to the European
trade, the articles of coffee and fu'gar which
we import and telhip are sent to, market
loaded with every additional exponce which
the danger and difficulty of procuring and
conveying thither occasiOns ; what else has
Taifed the price of them in all the markets
of Europe I What fay feh-et mercaritile let
ters of advice ? Send coffee, sugars, tobac
co, See. the pr ices will bear even the high
premiums of infurauee and freight.
Now Mr. Fenno, I think with my table
companion, that it was fortunate we did not
arm on a former occasion, and I am not less
certain we (hould avoid, at least postpone it
now, rather adopting the plan pointed out
in my4aft, or something free from the spil
ling of blood, which once begun will not
easily be (lopped—while it closes ths door of
reparation for the pajl, without even a hope of
benefit for the future.
A FRIEND TO LAWS & FRE-EDOM.
Dec. 13 th.
From the (LONDON) COURIER.
Mrs. NESBITT.
This celebrated woman h3s become the
topic of universal conversation, from the
mention which CitizeirNoFL* makes of her
tranfaftions in Germany j and (he is likely
to fuffer a great deal of impertinent dander
on account of the allusion to her name. It
certainly is no difqredit to the S cx > an
accompliftied woman is capable of playing a
partvfo confpfcuous and inlereftirvg to the
fate of natiur.s, as that which Mr». Ncfbitt
has lately performed. During the lail
twenty yeafs we will venture to fay that no
just reproach can be thrown on her moral
, conduft. The allusions made to her ac
quaintance with Mr. Rose are illiberal. Hej.
* Tfie I, t'Udon P»r eri have inserted the letter
here a'lude<l t >, as being wr.'t n by Citizen Noel
the French (V-rLaffador at ths Hague ; whereas it
i, an intercepted letter, written by Come person
employed by, C>e coakfeed Powers, and which,
falling into'the hands of the Arnj.ffador wasfent
by him tp thu JSlinitter of Police at Pans.
atfinacjr with ir.an'y of the iofiofi JiftingcHh- evt
:d char'a&ors of the age, with "Lorfl Thur- i by
ow and others, was no other than the foci- | mc
_-ty cf kindred minds. An intelligent wo- |no
nan in the decline of years, poffefling the ' th
•harms of conversation, unreitraiued by pro- th
dery, and endowed with elejaftt talents im
proved by a knowledge of the world, drew tei
around her is (cleft circle of friends, arid p.:
made her retirement at Norwood defirabie'io i v»J
the Politician .and the Scholar, from its in- so
teliecinjl and unembarrassed politics. We
abhor the idea of pflrfuing political hoftiii- ch
ties into private life ; we sincerely believe of
that. Mr. Rose cultivated,the acquaintance so
of Mrs. Ncibitt from the attrsdibu of jjjsr
m'fid ; and he introduced his young family
to her .house, that they miglit form their
manner? under so perfeita model.
Such has been the lituationof Mrs.Nefbitt
for the last ■ twenty years. With an inde-
pendent fortune of between 2 and 30001. a
year, debarred 1 in a great degree from the
ftmale world by the early events of herltiflo- L
ry, surrounded by men of the firft dillinfti
on, it was no wonder that a woman so eri- , I
dowed, and so fuccefsful, (hould be induced
to turn her talents into political intrigue.
Her marriage a-la-main gauche with a Ger
man Prince introduced her to the best focie- [ 1
ty at the Courts of Germany ; and in all
the diplomatic circles (lie was considered as
a woman of infinite address and of profound ,
discernment. Oar readers are not ignorant !
of tbenature of a German marriage a-la-main •
gauche. The pride of jroyalty will not per- !
mit a Prince to marry a woman of inferior b
rank otherways than with the left hand. "
This, withdut elevating the lady to the '>
Blood Royal, preserves hercharafter unftain- j 1
ed, and (he is received into society with re- P
fpeft. The conntftions thpt (he formed in si
the Empire and Switzerland, her knowledge I n
of the languages, the symmetry of her per- j a
son which made it easy for her to assume the 0
male habit, and the confidence reposed in
her by Mfnifters, pointed her out as a pro- t
per agent ; and on the sth of August 1795 I
(he left England, and has ever fmce resided v
in various parts of the Continent. It is not r
easy to develope the course (he has pursued; 1
but until it (lull be declared infamous for j.
Court* to employ fecnet agents, it surely I
cannot be imputed to h»r as a crime that her «
accomplishments entitled her to the appoint- 1
merit.
We know that public curiosity will not be '
fatisfied until we (hall tear off the ma(k from 1
the early periods of her hiftory—atid yet no- 1
thing can be more base and detestable in '
Morality than such an exposure. Let the '
generosity of the sex decide upon this quef
tiou. If youthful frailty cannot be atoned |
for by years of honourable life—if no (hade 1
is tobecaft over the errors of an inexperienc- '<
ed and a deluded heart, but the fcrvility of 1
virtue it to persecute with eternal exclufurn
the female who has once erred, what a hor
rible tyranny is that of the Public Tribunal
But Gallantry, and s he cause of Virtue it
felf, join in the rescue of the Sex ; and on
ly vicious malignity, or horrid defign,would
recal the memory of repentant error. Mrs.
Nefbitt has had to combat through life with
the prejudice which her firft connefti»tis
excited : and the woman whom the dread
ful pen of Junius coniigned to an immortal
ity of disgrace, could only rife superior to
the memorial by extranrdrrrary
yet this (he has effected. Notwithstanding
the recorded anecdote of her marriage with
Mr. Nefbitt, and the mifcellanv of her life,
(he has acquired an elevation in life which
(he has preserved with dignitybecaufe (he has
afted with moderation. She has used her
influence with the great, in favor ef the un
fortunate ; and many deserving men owe
their present fituatioDs in public life to the
patronage of this Lady.
STATE PAPER.
Decree of his catholic majesty, prescribing
regulations to be observed in the condem
nation of prizes brought intoSpani(h har
bors :
" The king being desirous, that, in trials
relative to prizes, all doubts (hould be re
moved which may occasion loss and delays,
to the prejudice of persons interested, or
give rife to difficulties with other courts —
The Prince of peace, our firft secretary of
State has prepefed to us what appeared to
him a proper remedy. Agreeably to his
'proportion, and after having consulted our
Supreme council of war, we have pa(Ted
the following decree :
Art. 1. The immunity of the coasts of
our dominions (hall not be marked, as here
tofore, by the doubtful and uncertain reach
s of cannon, but by the distance of two miles
of 950 toifes each.
1. Prizes made within th* said two miles
■ fiiall be tried according to the usual and es
tablished forms, before the tribunals in
r whichethe governors andcommandantsofour
f ports preside, to whore we give this jurif
di&isn.
3. No prize made within the said limits
(hall be considered legal, unless it be taken
from a with whom we are at war ;
then there (hall be taken, merely for form's
fake, a piocefs verbal in the port into which
e the prize (hall be broght.
e 4. Prizes taken beyond the said distance
x (hall be considered as made on the high seas,
y and judged by the tribunal of the captor.
r 5. Prizes made on the high seas, and bro't
t ,into the ports of our dominions, cann»t be
f fold if they consist of prohibited merchanr
a dize ; but if they are not of this defcriplion
e the laK (hall be permitted upon paying the
t legal duties.
J 6. When the prizes made without the
3 territorial diilance (hall be carried into our
ports, a iimple process verbal (hall be taken
of the capture by the agents of the captor,
' and the governoi of the port ; so that the
persons interested may,notwithftandingthefe
I : proceedings, have recourse to the proper tri-
V
n ' 7. If any neutral vefTel which (hall be ta
'• ken without the territorial distance, and
' , brought jato purports; Have Spanish prop
:vty on board, the whole prize (hall be tried pai
>y our tribunals, if the Spauifn property a- j dat
nount to one half of the cargo ; but if it is . otl
lot equal to one half the value of the cargo ' St;
:he prize shall be tried by the tribunal of ( th<
:'nc captor. ' of
8. If neutral vessels taken without the thi
territorial diftanpe, and brought into our bit
ports, contain Spanish property notamount- , ftt
ing to one half the cargo, they cannot be I
fold as if they belonged to enemies. , gr
We therefore enjoin all our councils, ca
chancelleries. audiences,and all the tribunals pi:
of oilr kiivjJotn and Seignories, &c. tocon- | in
forVn hereto. en
" at Aranjuez, 14th June, x 7-J7-"
'■ ■■ nr
• 'ti 'f "■"•a— yr ce
■si -O N G R E S S. fu
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
, . .
TUESDAY DECEMBER 12. in
Debate on a Motion for fu [pending the opera- so
t'-ou'rif ail Act of Limitation. I'
The house having resolved itfelf into a com- h:
mittes of the whole on the fubjeft, Mr. cl
Dent in the. chair, the following report fi<
was read : p:
The committee of claims, who were " in- oj
ftrufted to enquire into, and report on tl
the expediency or inexpediency of defig- fe
Bating certain claims against the United tl
' States, to fee excepted, from the operation
of the afts of limitation-," —Report n-
THAT io obedience to the orders of the tl
house, they have made all the enquiries h
which to them appear ncceffary : that they ft
have attentively and deliberately considered e
the fubjeft referred to them, and are of o- 1
pinion that it would not be expedient to de- ti
fignate«any species of claims against the U- tl
nited States, wfhich are now affefted by the i
afts of limitation, to be excepted from the I
operation of those afts. ti
In con Tidy ing this fubjeft, a review of v
the fituatwn' of the United States', as res- a
pefted their finance*, during the period
when most of the demands originated, was c
requifite.—lt was also Beeeffary to ascertain o
what meafurts had been adopted by con- t
grefs, both under the old and «nder the c
present government, tobring all the demands c
against the Hates, to a liquidation and set- {
tlcment. s
It will be recollefted, that at the com- ;
mencement of the war, the United States
were deflitute of money ; and during a long I
period of years afterwards, were obliged to I
rely principally on credit for carrying on all 1
their important operations. <
Having, at that time, no fettled national <
government, a regular system for conduft- '
ing public bufineu, especially money tranf- j
aftions, depending on credit, was not to be i
expefte*}. 1
Great numbers of individuals were neces
sarily inveftcd with the powers of bindßig
the public by their contrasts. Almost tve-
ry officer of the army, whether in the com
missary's department, or otherwise, in dif
ferent stages of th*' had it in their pow
er to contjaft debts legally or equitably
binging upon the United State 4. We find
congress, at various times, during the war
endeavoring to make arrangements which
should prevent an undue us« of the powers
veiled in individuals, and the dangerous
ronfeqowttes so winch the government w.ir,
thereby neceffarlly espofed. The afts of
the Jth of March, 1779, and of the 23d of
August, 1780, were calculated to limit the
public refpoufibility in such cases. After
the peace, and under the old government,
periods were preferibed, within whichclaims
of certain descriptions, and finally all unli
quidated claims were to be exhibited for .
settlement, or to be forever thereafter bar
red.
It must be acknowledged by all, that du
ring tbofe periods, every 'provision which
could rationally have been expefted, was
made for the accommodation of individuals
having claims against the public, to enable
them to obtain proper settlements of their
demands. The journals of congress under
' the confederation will abundantly juftify
this remark.
1 Commiffioiiers were appointed, with fper
cial or general powers, to fettle the claims
I of individuals in all the departments ; and
in every inftanee, the powers given were ple
' nary and explicit. ..Sufficient time was giv
* en one to obtain information, and
pin fne liis remedy, and ample opportunity
' wa3 given For all tofubftailtiate their claims,
or, at least, to present abflrafts of them,
which would have prevented their being
" foreclofed by the afts designed eventually to
1 operate upon them. The cases cannot be
' numerous, in which tlie want of opportuni
ty to bring forward claims, can be justly
s pleaded as an extufc for the omission.
By the aftof the 17th of March, 1785*
I all persons having unliquidatedclaims against
r the United States were required, within
' twelve months,to exhibit particular abllrafts
of such claims, "to some of the commissioners
s in the state in which they refpeftively refid-
II ed, who were sent and empowered to fettle
~ accounts against 'the United States, under
s the penalty or condition, that accounts not
so presented, should be thereafter fettled
only at the Treasury.
e By another aft of Congress, of the fame
! » year, viz. November 2, 1785, all persons
having claims for services performed in the
I military department, were direfted to exhi
e bit the fame for liquidation, to the commis
sioners of arms account?, on or before, the
II firft day of Anguft, then ensuing. By that
e aft if w*b esprlrfsly/eiolved,
under the description abov£ mentioned,
e which might be exhibited jifter that period,
lr should be forever thereafter precluded from
™ adjustment and allowance.
r ' And it was provided, by the aft of July,
e | 23, 1787, that all persons having unliqui-
[ e j dated claims against the United States, per-
I taining to the late commissaries, quarter
i mailers, hospital, clothiers or marine de
partment, fhciuld exhibit particular abflrafts
of such claims, to the proper cornmiflioner
3 appointed --o fettle the accounts of those de-
parlrfleHts, within eight months from the! limi
date'of the said aft; and all persons having! thai
other unliquidated claims againil; the United the
States, were to exhibit particular abflrafts r ,
thereof to the Comptroller of the Tteafury req
of the United States, within one year from aft
the date thereof? and all accounts not exhi- ticti
bited as aforef iid, wire to be precluded from of
settlement or allowanee. frd
These regulations were adopted by Con
gress, under the old government. Great res
care was taken to have them extensively are
published, so that every individual, who was pa'
interested, miifht be informed of their exist- sol
I ® .
ence and operation.
Under the preirrit constitution, there has fir
not been wanting a disposition to relieve wi
certain individuals vvbofe clainrs were con- to
iidered as peculiarly meritorious, which had mi
been affefted by the afts above recited. ho
With this view, in March 1792, two fe-
vera! acts of Congress were pailed, suspend- pa
ing, for two years, the operation of there- to
folrtions of Congress, of November 2d, th
1785, and July 27th, I 787, so far as they
had barred or might be construed to bar the ha
claims of the wido wor orphans of any of- m
ficer of the late army, to the seven years half nc
pay of such officer ; or the claims of any hi
officer, foldicr, artificer, fador, and marine, of
the army of the United §tntes, for pcrfonal pc
services rendered to the United States, in fu
the military or naval departments. tc
In consequence of these suspensions, ma- tl
ny claims were exhibited and allowed againil m
the government. There is reason to appre- ol
hend, in some instances, the public were de- u
frauded for want of pre-existing checks and p
evidences of payment having been made.— ci
This suspension continued for the term of n
two years, which was till March 1794. In a
the mean time, viz. on the 12th of February t!
1793, the aft " relative to claims afairjl the ft
United States, not barred by any aH of limitn e
tion, and which had not been already adjujledr
was patted by Congress, after a ferioti3 utd h
attentive consideration of the fuhjeft. I
By that law, it was provided, " That all I
claims upon the United States, for services I
or supplies, or for' other cause, matter or t
■ thing, furnifhed or done, prsvious to the 4th f
• day of March, 1789, whether founded upon 1
i certificates or other written documents from t
- public officers, or otherwise, which had not 1
already been barred by any aft of limitation, t
■ and which should not be presented at the \
s Treasury, before the firft day of May 179/, t
r should forever after be barred and precluded ]
j from settlement or allowance." But this «
1 was not to coaftrued as affefting Loan Office 1
certificates, certificates of final settlements, in- j
1 dents of interejl, balances entered in the books of 1
- the regijler of the treasury, regijlered certificafes, 1
- foreign loans, or certificates ijfued under the aS
e mating provifton for the public debt <f the Unit- \
ed States."
One otheraft, palled the 3d day of March,
5 '795. provided, that Lean-Office certificates,
■- final fiettkmfnts, and indents of _ interefi, then
1- outstanding, (hould be presented at the office
*- of the auditor to the treasury, on or before
•- the firft day of January, in the present year,
y 1797,'0r be forever after barred or preclud
d ed from settlement or allowance,
ir This summary contains a geueral view of
h the principal afts of limitation, by which
r» claims against the public nave been affefted.
is From an attentive t'ncm,
is ;fh3oF lie cfrcumftauces undfcr which the,
>f were enafted, the committee are fully im
>f pressed with an opinion, that it would no;
ie be expedient to suspend their operation.
:r It was essential to the public admimitn
t, tion, that the extent of jull demands upon
is the government, (hould be, within a reafona
i. ble period, definitely ascertained. It was
jr essential to the public fafety and to right, iii
r- reliion to the whole community, that all
unsettled claims should be made known
i- within a time when there were yet means of
•h proper invelligation, and after which the
as public responsibility should terminate ; and
Is the poffibiiity of charging the government
le by collusive and fiftitious contrasts, should
ir be at an end.
;r Thejuftice as well as policy of aftjß of
fy limitation, under such circumstances, cannot
be doubted
t. The situation of no country ever prefent
ns ed a more clear necessity f»r, er a more com
id peteot juflification of precautions of that
e- nature. And all the reasons for adopting
v- them operate to recommend unufujl cantion
id in departing from them, with.the addition
ty aTforce of this circumfiance, that the fubfe
is, quent lapse of time has increased the difficul
ri, ties of a due examination,
ig The accounts of a confiderablc number
to of officers, who had in their power to bind
be the public by their contrasts, and who were
ii- entrulled with large sums of money for ful
ly filling, their engagement, remain unsettled;
some of those persons are dead : others
j, have afcfconded ; the business has been con
ift dufttd by others, with so little order, as to
in put it out of their power to 1 render a proper
Eta flatement of their tranfadlions ; the books
;rs andpapersof others, whofiadextenfivetrufts,
d- have been deflroyed, so as to preclude the,
:1c poffibiiity of settlement. Hence it mull
ler appear that the government would,in a great
ot number of cafe 3, be deflitute of the means
ed of repelling unfounded and even fatisfied
claims for want of documents and vouchers,
Tte which could only have resulted from a due
ns settlement with thole officers, and from the
he poffeflion of their books and papers,
hi- It might be inferred wi.hout proof, and 1
if- it lias appeared in the Otirfe of business at
he the treafury,*that it was a praftice with cer
lat tain public officers, on obtaining supplies to
as,, give receipts and certificates for them, and
;d, when jAy made payments, cither partially
id, or totfwy, to take diftinft receipts from the
>m parties, without either endorsing the pay
ments upon the orignal vouchers, or requir
ily. ing a farrender of them,
ui- Hence it would often happen that par
er- ties could produce fatisfaftory vouchers of
ter their having performed services, and furnifh
-2- ed supplies, for which, though fatisfaftion
fts may have been made, the evidences of it
ner would not be in the poffeflion of thegovern
de- metit. And hence, from relaxations of the
limitation a&s, there would be great da.iger
that much more injustice would be done to
the United States,than justice to individuals.
The principles, of felf defence therefore
require, and juftify an adherence to thofc
afts * t "rurally ; and there are not any par
ticular species of claims, Which, in tlk view
of the committee, ought to be exempted
frotn their operation. «
Thole which have been mod frequently
referred to by some members of the house,
are such claims as include the arrearages of
pay aiid other emoluments to officers and
soldiers of the late arrtiy, &c.
Pursuant to an order of the house, at the
firft. session of the last congress,. a report
was made to them, having special refere*ce
to this fubjeft. It wis considered in com
mittee of the whole, and agreed" to fcy life
house, on the firft day of February, 1796.
—To that report and the documents accom
panying the fame, the committee ask leave
to refer the house, and refpeftfully fubnait
the whole fubjeft to their confideratioo.
Mr. D. Foster said, the Report itfelf
had stated the reasons of the Committee for
miting it, so fully, that he thought it
neceflary to do more than move that the
house concur with it.
Mr. Gallatin observed, that this re-
I port went upon two principles ; firft, that
fufiicient time had been given for claimants
to come inland that therefore it was always
■ I the fault of themselves, if their claims were
j not allowed ;i and the other was, the danger
■ I of fraud that would attend thefettlement of
■ I unliquidated accounts, from the want ofpr.o
---11 per checks. Taking it forgrantei that the
• I committee of the whole would eoncur in the
f I report, he fnould make a motion to except
1 I a class of claims which did not come within
r I the operation of these objeftions, to the pof
? I feffor of which, due notice had not been giv^
J en of their being barred, and which were qi
' I ready liquidated. The dtferiptien which
i I he alluded to were Land-Ofnce Certificates,
I Final Settlements, _ and indents of iSterejj.
I I It was to be observed that on the 12th <)f
s I February 1793, an Act was pasTed relative
r 1 to claims, which required them to be pre
li I fented at the Treasury before the 1 ft of May
n I 1794, or they would be forever barred, but
n I these descriptions of claims were excepted,
t | Public notice was given of this ait, so that
1,1 the country might become well acquainted
e I with it. But an ait had been passed on
,1 the 3d of March, 1795, making further
a | provilion for the support of Public Credit,
is I and the of the Public Debt, which
:t I was a long aft, relating to different ob
-1-1 jests refpefting the Public Debt; but in tl e
7/1 middle of it there was afe&ion inferte*?, re
s, I quiring all Loan-Offiee Certificates, Final
81 Settlements, and Indents of Interest,
1-1 funded within two years. This aft 'Was so-
I reign to the fubjeft, and there was nothing
ti, I in it to lead to a supposition that fuoh an
s, I article would be found in it 4 110/ had the
■n I law been published in the newspapers, or a
;c I ny means taken to acquaint the holders of
re I this property with it. He could not, tliere
r, I fore, conceive that it wa3 confident with
d- I public credit, or good faith, to pass a limi-
I tation law in such a way. He therefore
if I hoped the'law would be suspended, f» as to
:h I give due notice to the holders of these spe
d. 1 cie» of papT, that it was intended tobebar
-11, cd. He knew there weie strong objeftion*
I against fufpendihg A'fts of Limitation'., on
n- I account of frauds-end forgeries } but he Sid
0; I not think these of fufficicat weight to (jre-
I vent justice from being dose to this claTs of
n- I public Creditors. The provision bftrriilg
jn j these claims was little known. He himfeff ,
a-1 knew nothing of it, until he.had eccafoi 'o
av I take a sreneral view of all the Revenue laws
in I of the United States, when he met with it
all I in the middle of the aft he had mentioned,
vn I He was himfelf wholly diiinterefted in the
of I bitlinefs, as he did not know -an individual
he I who was poflefled of a Certificate of this
nd I kind. How many there were, he knew
:nt I not, or how much danger there might be i«
ild I 'he suspension he could not tell: but he wa*
I ftruek with the injullice of thus barring this
of I defcriptron of claims. He, therefore, pro
lot I posed the following Resolution for the adop-
I'tion of the Committee :
tit- " Refplved, That so much of an Aft en
m- titled an Aft making further provilion for
iat fupportmg Public Credit, and for reducing
II g the Public Debt, palled March 3, 1795, as
on bars from settlement, after a limited time,
jn- Loan-Office Tickets, Final settlements, and
fe- ItideflTS of Interest; be suspended for a ccr
ul- tain time." '
Mr. N. Smith allowed that the gentle
-ser man from Pennfylvanfa had fhevvn to his fo
nd tisfaftion that it wouldhave been much more
ere proper to have had flic law in
ul- "diftinft aft, than in the aft In which it
d ; been introduced; &he r«grettedthat thatgen
ers tleman had not been fuffieientlv awake when
an- the law palfcd, to have presented the evil,
to as it had pasTed the House since he was a
per member of it. scut, at this time, it pre
)ks fented to his mind a different qadsion. Thi*
fts, fpeeies of paper was now dead by law. To
the, pass an aft to reviv t and bring it again into
utt existence, was a very different thing from
eat aftiug originally right. That gentleman
ans had, however, not noticed the impropriety
Bed at that time, which he lamented ; bat could,
?rs, not consent to its being revived at this day,
lue which would be to encourage a spirit ofipe
thc culation,
ers of the cerßfcites fro.*: any benefit, and
ind throw money mu the h:inds of perfous no
at way entitled to ; it. Here, said is a
set - species or paper deltfoyed by an Aft of Li
sto: mitation, not by aft, but by h
andi of an aft on a different fubjeft. The
aljy coiifcquence would be, that defigiiiug,_evil
the speculators, who may perhaps have iutereft
lay- enough t« procure a repeal of this law, by
uir- tb Congress, will buy up thi*
paper for a mere trifle from pc-toiu believing
jar- it to have been deltroyed by law. The mc
sof ment this ouettion was agitated, the fpeeu
lifli- lation would have a beginning. He did not
tion know that it had already commenced ; but
f it before the propoCtion got to the Senate, he
crn- doubted nbt that hundreds of persons would
tlje be parchafing this paper from perfoni whobelieved it to be of nr> value. - He was there-, w
lure, cippofed to the resolution. hi
> Mr.- Brookes could not agree with the w
gentleman just fat down. He seconded the fa
motion, because he thought it at once clear gi
and reafqnabl?. He washjmfelf no ways in- w
- t ere (ted in it. These claims had been as
•.much .sett led as they-could he ; and he tho't tl
tbe law for b«rringthem had not been made w
fufficiently public. Instead of giving light w
to .the people from the house top, they had k
Iplaced their light under a bufhcl. With re- o'
fpeft to the danger, to be apprehended from hi
impositions, he did rot think it great, as
the books which were kept at tbe public of- re
sices, were calculated ta prevent frauds, by vj
marginal checks, See. Indeed this f>;bjijft it
was so plain and obvious, that lie doubted w
mst t&e proportion «*«mld fee adopted by a ot
large majority of the committee. fu
Mr. DAVT9N. ( the Speaker) said, the gen- oi
. tleman who (poke last had anticipated most of f 0
what he had intended to offer on the fubjetfl. He
was going to remark, that this particular defcrip- , r
tion of debt did not fall within the realonlng of ln
the committee of claim, on the limitation aits, n(
and that the possessors of it eould have no eipec cf
tation of jitt being barred. In addition to the mar- t
filial cheeks of the ofece books, mentioned by the ■
gfentleman from New-York, there was also a check
letter in tbe hboks and on the certificates, whicb cs
rendered forpery almost impofiible, \fliat bro't in
thin particularly to his ootice, three west? before It
he came frem borne, a f.nr fo).'ier applied to him
with one of these certificates, and another ore
week before he set out, to gn something for them. at
He told them they were barred. Tliey were fur- 111
prized. TJey said they were gie 11 to them at the hi
conclusion of the war ; that they were to have p
received tlieir pay from month to month daring
theirfervice, but that Rattling had beengvsnto
them till the end ef the war, when they rccdv.d 31
rt>ele certificrtcs. They'haJ applied tor siva t.r fix
yearn to?>..'thrr for navment; tut .growing weaty ft
of nnitKcctWul app'i.aiitHis. tliey laid their oetriG- 'J
cate» aside. They hear, at f length ( they may be
funded ; but, when th-y apply, they i\re told rb -ir
'application i» a few Wtrrk» tbo'late. Was it pofii-
Wo, he ailteil, tlut a ojajr'r.ty of that' Commi'tee a
eould agree to a reportwhich, without this rdo- t>
, went to bar these meijof theil claim,—
Thcir%;counts ba'l th»ii nirarnvcrf , j
00 tl.s |uufi,er-roB. and »v-rj n-gtilation (.ad Vm
ettenJetl to ; yet, by a law which had been p si (1,
but known to a few only, tbefe certificates were I
precluded from benefit. He truddd this report\ (]
would not befanflioned. if gentiemen werr a
fraid of speculation, the proposed suspension might
'< »lv be in favor of the raal holders of certificates
who had themselves fcrved, or furniftied fuppliei. a
He Should be fatisfied with this. The gentleman C
from Connefticut (Mr. Smith) lamented that the c
law had been pafled in the way which had been (
mentioned. He jcined him in the lamentation,
and he hoped that gentlemen would join with these
who wilhed to provide relief to these meritorious '
men, —men who were not in a situation to pet any
information with refpe& to t(ie law which barred {
.their claim, and who depended upen their daily r
labor for their fuppnrt.
Mr. Allen said, the gentleman last up,
had given them certain information as to
the checks kept in the' books of the public |
offices, with a view, he supposed, of influen
cing their votes. He wished to know whe- j
ther in those books there was an account of (
the fumi due to these claimants? [Mr. |
Brookes answered there was.3 faid
he (hould not the ijU?"again ft' tHe resolution,
but he fhauld wi(h to confine the benefit In- '
tended to be given to the original holders,
and not to give it to speculators. He tho't
the cafe of thfcfe people hard ; but e«(i!d
n<Jt' {iibfcrihe to the idea, that because th*
law had not been published in a cerTain way
it ought not to be enforced ; since no man
coulij b* t6 be igsorant of the law.
moved to add these words to the resolu
tion, " in certain cases."
'Mr. Jfcid r tb»t when a t»e» Wftf
prosecuted for a breach of the law, he could
not plead an ignorance of it ; btt this did
not apply to the present cafe. The law in
qucflion was little known ; it could not even
be found in the index of their laws. He
himfelf did not know there fut.h a law,
until after it had taken effeft, and then he
had good reason to know it. Last wiutera
certificate was given him to be funded ; but
owing to his being obliged to flop »n the
road some time, from the dislocation of a
limb, he did not arrive till a few after
the claim was barred by the law in question.
ijf the members, then, of that house were
ignorant of the law, how could they expeft
that persons holding these certificates (hould
be acquainted with it. He had also called
at the office of the Commiflioner of Loans,
where he <vas direfted to the Treasury De
partment, but received no information at
that office that the claim was barred. This
being the cafe, he trusted the committee
urould notrefufe to do a« aft of acknowledged
jiiftice. As to the amount of these claims,
they were not ignorant of that; from the
accounts of the Secretary of the Treasury,
it wai 1,124,000 dollars. And to prove
that there was ar\y danger from forgery, it
would be necessary to produce instances of
this kind of fraud. The evil of speculation
would be prevented by the proposed modifi
cation. He trusted, therefore, as it was
called for by every principal of justice, the
resolution would be aeceded to.
was in favor of the amendment
and hoped the refutation would be agreed
to. He had presented a petition the other
day praying that fame provision of this kind
might be made. He held in his hand the
original acknowledgement of the debt, upon
which interest had been paid. The ceriifU
ca-tf was firft sent to him to'be funded ; but,
finding it barred, the owner of it had peti
tioned for relief.
« Mr. Co it hoped the amendment
rtot 'prevail,"as it would ruu counter to all
former laws on the fubjeft, and he trusted
they should not now depart from the prin
ciple heretofore adopted. He was, howe-i
ver, in favour of the resolution itfelf. He
was a friend of Statutes of Limitation ; but
h« would have them fairly made. The law
in qufcftion could Tflot be fufficiently known.
Mr. T. Claiborne called lor the read
ing of the feftion of the law which related
to this fubjeft. If they were to do any
thing in ths-bufiuefs, he should be for doing
complete justice. [The law was read.]
Mr. Alcis had little'refpeft far perfops
who had obtained the pofltfiion of these cer
tificates by speculation. He wished qnly
to relieve the holders; but if this
were not guarded against, the evils which I th<
his colleague (Mr. Smith) had foretold," p;i
would certainly take place. It had been
said, that there had been no instances of for- it
£ery j he mentioned one with which he was co
well acquainted. of
Mr. Elmendorph trusted that the gen- of
tleman who proposed the amendment would th
withdraw it, when he was informed that it th
wa» the praftice to iflue Loan-Office Tic- wi
kets in the names of others than the real mi
owners. He mentioned ooe instance, and th
he knew it was a cominpn thing. de
Mr. Parker was in favour of the
resolution of the gentleman from Pennfyl- Si
vania ; but he would ratlver not pass it than wl
it should pass with the amendme it. He mi
wished not only original holders, but all
others, to have the benefit of the proposed of
suspension. The he said, were N a
originally negotiable, and he saw no reason C<
for depriving them of that quality. It was th
true, that in this cafcy the money might go in]
into the pocketeof a set of men who were w;
not very popular in this country ; but this
could not bie avoided. All limitation laws T
he fiid, were contrary to justice ; but, in
all cafe 3 where it was expedient topafs them, or
care ought to.be taken that no class of men ti<
in particular should be affefted by them.— w
It had been objefted to this resolution that itl
if it pafled, it would open a door to frauds, fu
and chiefly serve speculators ; but it c6uld
not be said that it would place the original lo
holders in a worse situation than they are at so
present, but in a better. He hoped, there- on
fore the resolution would pass, without the th
amendment. • tli
Mr. S.Smith said, this fubjeft had been cl
so frequently agitated in Congrcfs, and the ci
doctrine of difcrimmation so conftantiy decid- oi
ed against, that he wondered it should, at fc
this period be renewed. It was fully tried 1
at the time of commencing the funding fyf- cl
tem. Every poffeffing a certificate,
Ix&re the claim was barred, had the fame In
right to have it funded, faw 110 re&- cl
son why they should now make a diftinftion. ai
He was in favour of the refolutiin, and vi
fhouldhaveno modification of it which would e<
tend to prevent speculation.
• Mr. Thatcher said, thatduring the last, 1
and the present session, he had had certifi- "t<
cates sent on to him to be funded, by his o
eopftituents, telling him, they heard the b
country was about to pay its debts. He ti
told them, in answer, that they had said by o
law that they would pay nothing at all.— t!
This hit friends thought a hard business ; ii
since they were pofTefled of acknowltdg- J
ments of debt, which government had so- ii
lemnly promiftd to pay. This was, how- a
ever, their situation. He was, therefore, r
clearly of opinion, that these people ought fl
to be paid. But there had been a hue and f
cry raised by the gentleman from Connect
ticut, against speculators. He did not think v
this defeription of* men had done the mil- 1
lionth part of the injury ascribed to them, t
He believed" they were in the situation of a 1
certain other personage: for he was giving 1
the " Devil his due but he thought the i
old gentleman himfelf was often highly in- t
j tired, by having more laid to his charge than (
he was guilty of. He thought these <
* feme fpeenhtor* hatftione more good to the I
public, than Congress had done in pas- I
nrig >th< law in quedion. He wished 1
their conduit was fully and fairly examined;
he thought it would bear examination. Gen
tlemen fay, that since lad January (when !
these claims were barred) these speculators
had been buying up this paper from the
holders for a mere trifle. Suppose, said he,
this were true, and they had given an origi
nal holder 43. in th; pound for what he be
lieved to be of no value. Where was the
criminality of this? Was he injuring the
holder ? As well might it be said, that a
than who visits another in prison, and gives
him meat to eat, does him an injury ; be
cause he does this, with an expeftation that
heaven will reward him. Connecticut, he
said, was the last quarter from whence he
_ should have expefted such a doftrine. If
it were right and just that original holders
j should receive that which they have had pro-
I mifed them, he thought those who had Hik
ed the purchase »>f them, in the face of a law
' of the United States, out of mere compas
sion and benovolence to the holder, were en
titled to more. The only ground upon
' which, speculators could build a hope, was
| that congrefi having pafled an injurious law,
would one day be brought to a fink of Jhame
' for having done so, and do justice. Topun
ifh these men, therefore, fur entertaining
' this hope, would be to punish virtue with a
t vengeance. Theft odious characters, fpec
j: ulators, it mull be "allowed, he said, have
some good qualities ; for if they have not
conftantiy fed these claimants on govern
ment, they have at lead kept them from Jlarv
e tag. He (hould, therefore, be opposed to
the amendment.
The quedion on the amendment was put
I arid negatived, there being 10 vote 3 only in
favour of it.
r (Delate to be Continued)
e WEDNESDAY —DECEMBER 13.
n
Mr. Kittera appeared in his feat for the
•> j firft time this session.
The bill for suspending the aft laying a
duty upon damped vellura, parchment and
d paper until the 30th June next, was read
II the third time and pailed.
d According to order, the unfinifhed bufi
-- nsfs of yesterday came before the house j
j when
[e Mr. Allen' moved that the committee of
it whole be discharged from the farther coufi
w deration of the report of the Committee of
1. Claims on the expediency or inexpediency
1- of excepting certain claims from the opera
id tion of the Limitation Afts, in order that
y the report might be referred to the Secreta
g ry of the Treasury. His reasons for ma
king this/motion were stated to be, that sar
is ther information might be obtained with ref
r- pest to the risk there would be in making
[y the proposed exception, and also with rela
ys tion to the manner ia which the law barring
the claims proposed te bceseeptid, had been ™
publifhcd.
On being infprmed by the Speaker, that
it would not be in order to discharge tbe
committee of the whole to refer the report
of a feleft committer to one of the heads T
of departments, but that the committee tf
the whole might be difebarged,- on the fur
ther consideration of the report postponed, ir;
with a view of tailing upon any Depart l -
ment for information, Mr, Allen adopted
the latter mode, and moved that the conli- 01
deration be ppftponed till Monday wgek. of
After a few observations from Me firs. G
Srookes, Gordon, Goodrich and Gelatin,
which were chiefly in favor of the podpone- ' '
ment, the motion wan agreed ta.
A meWage was receivedfronfthe President
of the United States, inclotfng tbe c®py of in
a letter from the Judges of the Supreme IX .
Court of tlje United States, representing
the innonvenienceof theprefent time of hold-!
ing the Circuit Courts in the State of Dela- g°
ware, and requesting it to be altered to the
27th of April.—Ordered to lie on the
Table. ■ P«
Mr. Harper moved the order of the day in
on the bill for the rebtf ot the rwprefenta- cu
tives of William Carmichael, deceased na\
which being agreed to, the house rcfolved
itfelf into a committee of the whole en the
fubjeft, ar.d the bill having been read, an
Mr. Venable moved to strike out the sol- to
lowing words in the,aft, " end also in full pi
for any demand on account of an outfit for him co
on his appo'mtmcnt as Charge dec Affaires, on dt
the 20th day of April, 1790." He thought ea
these words a furplulage, and might do mif
cbief in future fettltment6. It had not been
customary for tbe United States to allow
outfits to officers of this grade, atid there- bi
fore improper to refer to such an allowance. A
This motion was supported fey Messrs. Ni- th
cholas, Rutledge a»d Elmendorph. v^
It was opposed by Meflr*..'Harper, Gal- f
latin, aud 'Pinckccy; «n the -jrourrd that a p:
claim havfng been made so* the' -aHowanCe of w
an outfit, it was necessary, in order to pre- at
vent that claim from feeing hereafter renew- ol
cd, to have a elaufe of this kind in the aft. ly
It appears, that by an aft pafled in July, C'
1790, Charge des Affairs, as well as Minis- aj
ters Plenipotentiary, are now entitled to an 3'
outfit of not more than one year's salary ;
but Mr. Carmichael, having left this coua- re
try in the charafter of Secretary of Legati- fl
on to Mr. Jay, in the year 1782, and had «
the expences of his voyage and eftablilhment I
in a Foreign country (for which purposes
Mr. Pinckney said the outfit was allowed,) t<
it had not been tho't right that he should be C
allowed f»r an outfit. A difficulty occur- tl
red in this hufinefs, whether Mr. Carmichael f
should be considered as Charge des Affaires I
from the year 1782, when he entered upon a
the duties of that charafter, or from 1790, 1
when he received hie new commission. If
he had been confideredintbis charafter from f
the latter period only, it was said he would t
have been entitled to an outfit j but then as <-
he would not have been entitled to full pay <
as Charge des Affaires from the time h« en- 1
tered upoi ihe dHties of-*he office, ndr to ]
the extraordinary charges which were claim- 1
ed. The committee reported the bill, there
fore, agreeably to the report t>f~ the Secre
tary of State, allowing him full pay and ex- 1
traordinary expences, but rejefting theclaim
; for an out.it.
The amendment after a considerable de
-1 bate, was put and carried, 47 to 35.
' Mr. Venable then moved tofirile out the ft
' condfeßion of the bill, which authorized the
' accounting officers of the Treasury to allow to
the reprefentalives of the deceased, at the rate
' of 4,444 dollars and 44 cents annually, from
1 the 20th of May, 1782, to the loth of April,
c If go, He thought the extraordinary expences
1 which had been agreed to be allowed of 8,258
8 dollars would be a fufficient compenfatien his
' extra-services as Charge des Affaires, without
' any additionalfalary, and his salary as Secreta
e r y would be paid at the Treasury, without any
* fpedal act for the purpose.
This motion yjjrs supported by Messrs. Coit
and Williams, and oppofed'ly Messrs. Harper.
Gallatin, S. Smith and Brookes. It was put
and negatived, there only being 24 votes in its
' favor.
Mr. Allen renewed the motion which he
n made when the report on this fuljea was under
is confide ration, to allow an interffl if fix per cent
1 per annum upon the amount whtch^wtuldappear
,e to be due, from the time at which application was
1- made for payment, until the money was paid.
it This motion was immediately negatived with
a out a divifon.
The Committee rofc, the House agreed to the
re amendment, and the bill was ordered to be en
it foffed for a third reading to-morrow.
a- Mr. Venable moved the order of the doy
,j_ 0 n the report of a Sele3 Committee appointed to
:o enquire whether any and what alterations are
necessary in the law, entitled " An A 8 for
it regulating Foreign Coins, and for other pur
in poses." If the House had no objection, he should
be glad if the usual motion for a Committee of
the whole might he dispensed with, and the re
port be concurred in. ,
Mr. Harrison hoped the report wiuld be
committeed, as he was not very well ftirfitd
he with it.
The report was accordingly committed
a and made the order for this day. On
id motion the House immediately resolved itfelf into
a d a Committee of the -whole on the fubjeS, Mr.
Dent in the chair.
si- A considerable debate took place.
c • The report <tvas fuppnrted ly M'Jf rs • Vcnalle,
Williams, Cbamplin and Harper '; and opposed
of hy Messrs. Nicholas and GaJlatin. Wi qiiejliari
if,, was taken. .%V Committee reported progrefi,
of and had leave to fit again,
C y Adjourned.
ra- ■ ' t M - ■ ■
£ TO LET,
ia- A Front Room, fuitabli for an
ar- Offiie or Counting house, with a large Cellar.
e f_ Anyptrfonwho may rent the above, may (if re
quired) be accommodated with Board and Loc'g
iag in the fame house. Enquire at no. iiJOj South
* a " Trent, near fine ftreer.
tig December 13. 3»W3w
%\)t ffimtttc*
PHILADELPHIA, j fm
rnrtvD.tY EVENINO, decemeeh 14. j
The aft of Congrcfs entitled "an net Will
.making.further proviuon for the flipport ~
of public credit, and for the redemption
of the public debt," approved the 3d day
of March 1795. was puWifhed in the
Gazette ci the U. S. the 30th of the
fr.me month, and in the Philadelphia
Gazette a few days before.
Prov r ifion is made by law for publi fil
ing the Acls of Congress in the newspa
pers, which has been invariably attended
to ever since the formation of the present
government.
Lad:
Three Highway Robberies have been per
petrated, within the last three or futir nights,
in the neighborhood of this city. One oc
curred last night, attended, it i* said, with
murder. T»<
The new comedy of " Wives as they lucre,
and Maids as they arewas a died !aft night
to a erouded house, with the greatest ap- A
plaufe—Perhaps a more unexceptionable
comedy is not extant. The managers will
dcubtlcfs compliment the public taste, by an
early repetition. g
Mr. Fen no, w |
The London Morning Chronicle, tho' as was
( bitter agaioft the Britilh ihiniftry as our typi
I Aurora, Argus and Chronicle are towards E
the government of the United States, in- lar Jt :
veighs agaiall the horrid tyranny of the ar i
Freiu-h Directors. The Editors of that 1 ;
paper have-too rimtfh sense to juftify afts. ,tH«
which even tbe dupes of party pronounce
atrocious. But the Argus calls " the cause No
of Frenchmen the cause of deity," and bold- t | ie
ly rmdicatee the Direftory. The Boston
Chronicle alferts that the a&s of attainder
I against our tories, were similar in principle
I and degree of injustice. One may ask whe-
ther these Jacobin printers really dettft our one
revolution ? If they do not, why do they Mc
I (lander that glorious event by comparing it
with the late outrageous despotism of the
I Direftory ? 1
Another remark eccurs, how is it In
to be accounted for, that our Jacobin
Gazettes discover fa much less principle
I than the English opposition papers. The er <
I faft is aertainly so, and those papers are still on
I English, tho' seditious and perhaps treason- j *•
I able They do not appear to be French, ' ;
I like the antifederal Gazettes. 1 Ir
The only way of accounting for this dif»
I ference is, that the freer and more popular
I any form of Government may be, the wick- ji a
I eder and more malignant will be the party th
I opposed to it; the warft fadlion ever known u>!
I was in heaven. In the next place, it is not tM
I probable the Direftory aftually hires any
I newspaper in London.
I PRICE OF S T OCRS. L
j Philadelphia, lllh Dec. 1797. J
. j 6 per Cent. 17/ h(
j I i per Cunt. loss,
I Deferred 6 per Cent. 11/6 a[
I BANK Uniied States, 26 per ct. advance. o |
I ■ Pennfylvauia, 11 to 28 de. ;
I—— North America, 50 do. |
I lal'yrauee Co. Pcnnfyivania, (hare> per eent. | a ,
I N. A fkares jo do.
\\gazett e marine list.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
3 I The following V((Tcli left Reedy Illand for
I fca on Saturday last,
S I Ship Jean. M'Plierfon, ,
' j Sweiger Nannings, >
" I Brig Anna MaJTet,
y Sally, Logan, , 5
I Schr. Angelica, Foster,
. I Sloop Mary, Gamble,
'' j And several other vessels.
'• I The following left the Island on Sundav, but C
it I owing to a S. W. wind returned the fame as
's I ternoon:
I 3rig Pennsylvania, Tacem,
I Molly, Ki'.by,
'' I Packet, Stro ig,
* I Schr. Kitty, Mason,
it I Alciope, Rice,
!/• I Harriot, Da Cofla.
:J I new-yodk, des. 13.
ARRIYID • A VS
, I Brig Ann & Mary, Smith, Bonavifta <|i
'* J Neptune, Grofart, Isle of May S7
■ Martinique,
I Schr.Tracy, Thomas, St. ) h<>mas ai
1- I Grey Hound, Clark, Havann* 11
I Sloop Fanny, Johnson, Charlellon 8
5 t ~r . ■'
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, Dec. 13.
'''' I For the Daily Gazette.
°J j Mefftv M'Lean & Lang,
I The following is from the London Morn-
I ing Herald, of July 20 1797.
' The King's Bench and Fleet Prison were
'd l a st night brilliantly illuminated on the occa
sion ofthe Insolvent aft having received the
'd Royal afTcnt. In the former place a band
of music played several [loyal and patriotic
[" airs, and the most joyous hilarity prevailed
till a late hour.' >
[By the above mentioned grace of Gov
ernment, many tboufand prisoners, long
j*' confined in the numerous jails of Great-Bri
tain, are enlarged and reftorcd to their joy
an ful families and friends ! J
ft, ■ _
BALTIMORE, Dec. 11.
• Married, on Tuesday evening tajl, at Che
jlertown, Nich»/as Brice, esquire, of this city,
ta miss Anna Maria T'ilghman, fourth daugh
ttr of Richard Ttlghman, esquire, of Chejler.
in 2
On the 6th December, the billfor cutting a
canal, between the waters of Chesapeake and
Delaware, was put to its pajfeige in thehoufe of
delegates, of this Hate t and rejeSed by a great
' majority of votes.
" NEW TH^TRK
/NOT PERFORMED THESE TWO TEARS.)
TO-MORROW EVENING,
. BEfEMB?R I?,
WiH be prei>r,d. a COVUC OPERA (wr Men by
theat'rHr* of :'-r PfXir cil'cd,
THE HIGHLAND REEL.
I.»id of Col, 1 Mr. Warren
Laird ol Raafay, Mr. Warrcl!
M'Cilpit, Mr. Hirwao.l
Sandy. Mr. Marfeall
Chirhy, Ml*. Fr;tß£.<
Shelty, Mr. Bernard
Crou'iy, Mr.
Captaiq Dash, Mr. Moretoa
"""Serjeant Jack, Mr. D»*fry
pi r, ■ Mr. T.Warrejl
Benin, Maf.fr i.'KftrMTgc
M'Gilpin, Mrs. Marshall
(Being her firtt appearance thefc twelve months )
Jenny, Mr** Warrell
£"Mcfr.Do&or,LaTancy,.Sully,L:W
---r jo t«• 1 tcrty, Mrs. Warr:n, Miss Mil-
Lads & LiflesX b<mme,Mi&fc,Eftr»nS«,MifcAn
(.derfon, Madame Harwoods&c
To conclude with
A SCOTS' REEL.
By theChara&era.
To which M ill be added, a F/\RCE> in two adtis,
called,
THE SULTAN;
1 , OR>
A PFEP INTO THE SERJGLIQ.
Soliman, -VI r. Moret(/p
Cfmyn, Mr. Harwrood
Elmira, Mis« I/? strange
Jlinvne (with Songs) Ivlr . Warrail
Koxalaxu (lor that n>ght only) Mrs. Marfltnl!
ftj* The new Comedy of WIVES AS THEY
WEUE,
was received with the lit mod. approbation—wilipe
repeated on Monday
Box, o;kj Oolla: ; Pit, th re? quarters of a. BoU
lar ; and G.iilcty a Dollar,
f The door* o> the i hsatrc vvill open at §vc,
and the curtain rile precijcljr at f;x o'clock.
yhqci tor he taieo at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 tiJi z o'clock,
and from ic till 4 on the days of performance.
Tickets to be had at N. and Rice s book-Here,
No, 50 Market-street, and at th*e, OHieeadjoining
| the Thearg. VIT'AT >RZS PUBLIC A !
Insurance Company
OF TV-K STAI'S OF -PENNSYLVANIA.
THE Stockholders are ii.rcliy notified, that an
Ele&ion for thirteen Directors to fcrve far
one year, will be held at the company'# Olfice, on
Monday, the eighth day of Januaiy next, at II
o'clock.
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
December 14 dcStliJ
Insurance Compary of North
America.
A Meeting of the Stockholpers is to be held,*,
greeably to adjournment, at the Company's office,
. on the fir Bl Monday in January next, at 11 o'clock,
I a. M. EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 14. th&mtiftj
Insurance Company of North
America.
THE Stockholders are hereby iaformed, that x
Hated meeting of the Company will be held at
their office on the niuth' day of January oext (be.
ing the fecoii<JTuefday in the month) for the Elec-
twenty-five Dire&ors fortkoenfulrtg ye it.
EBEN. HAZARD, SecVy.
December 14- thflmtjthJ
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
AN adjnurtied meeting of tke Stockholders of
the Delaware an 4 Schuylkill Canal, is t« be
held at their Office en Toefday rvening (19th of
this instant December) at 6 o'clock, p. m • prcciftly,
1 and punflual attend; nee is requested, on patters
' of the utmoik importance, relating to certain pro
pofitione for th? moreexpedirioufly ronipletitigihe
; work, and obtaining the aid of the Lcgiflatufe
; arid the Corporation of the City, fur introducing
a copious supply of water into the fame.
WM. MOORE SMITH, Sec'ry.
D camber 14 dt 19th
J.he City Dancing Aliipmbly/
Is unavoidably poftpoued till the 14th laih
Dec, a.
r Public of India Goods
AT NIW-YoRK,
Will commence on Monday the 18th inft.
by A. L. Bleecker & Sons ;
The cargo of thejhip Swift, Pierre de Peyjirr,
Commander, jujl arrivedfrom Calcutta, on
a credit of 2,'4, and 6 months
t Consisting of 279 bales of the following ar-
F- tides :
Manikpore")
Kirahod
Guzzena t. -
Addea Baft3B '
Eniertie
Patna i -
Jellepore
' Ouddee Coffaes
Tigerry G'.izzenas
Beeboorn Gurrahs
~ Bli/e Guineas
I 2 Guillaudendiary Handkfs.
8 Doreas
Dacca Mulmuls
Tanda Coflaes
Santipore Muslins
Kermichee Romals
Chanderconah Nayanfook &
Bandanoe Handkerchiefs
The fjbove Goods to be fold without ths
smallest reserve.
n " Philadelphia, Dec. 12. *tljt
re By JOHN MILLER, jun. &T Co.
a " No. 8, Chflnut-ftrcet.
® One hundred and eighty bales
f c BENGAL GOODS,
e( j Amongst which arj,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baltas Sannas
>"* Guzz nahs Tanda Collaes
ng Guzzi'S ftmertici
, r ;_ Blue Cloths Calicos
.PiLampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
" Among! l them are a great proportion of ch
marufaflures of Pi'na.
Imported m the brig Eliza,
•f, e ' Cagt. Hastik, from Bourdeaux ;
itv Claret in <. afes of a very fuperisr quality,
y White Sauterne Wine in Csfes,
Olive Oil'in baSkets of 12 bottles each,
hr. White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
„ a A fjiw pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
s j For Sale by
. . JAMES I ATIMER, jan.
e °f 71, South Wfevvis.
r iot Who has also for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry W ne.A farm for ia le,
IN Perth Amboy in th; slate of N'ew-Jerfsy,
of'four htindred'ai.rcs, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arftbfe aim Wood
lam!, and fait marlh : There it on the prenifes,
a pood apple orchard, and a variety of »ther
fruit trees, it is well wattrcd with Tprirgi and
hl'O >us, it is haunded on two fides with uftvi
gaMe waters and has a good mill site, i'« fittu
,tinn is healthy and plcafant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Amboy and i:s
environs, and sonveiiient to the fineit fifh and
ovfters in their proper feafnn, it abounds with
l)sruta! manure 'from which, with the sdvanta
' ges of the mil fli by applying the hay there-'
from to the keeping of itock, may a: a lr.iatl
expense, be enriched to a great degree and ren
dered one of the firll grazing farms in the state
it is wejl calciilatedjfor a farmer or a gent'e
man's t»st, having several eligible files 'for
building. This farm will be fold together-or
divided, as may suit a purchaser, at private
sale, or if not. fold, will be let up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Dec.emi
ber next, at tbe house of Robert Rattoone, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock ill
the forenoon. .Any perl'ou inclining to purchase
may view the premises by application to John
or Qlaithia: Haljled at Perth Amboy, from
whom or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Esq.
fpeaket of the house of representatives of the
United States now in Philadelphia, from Mat
thias li~)Uiamfdn,]\m. efq. or ,Vlr. Samuel Smith
at Eiizaijfth-Town further information may be
obtained^—and who are pofTcfled of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797-
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propofinjr 10 contraS his bufi
iieCu, offers this Eftaie for sale, on moderate
terms. On it ire one Blast and three 'Ait Furnaces,
a complete linreing Machine, and a very good grift j
Mill, with two pair of Hones ; also a good Forge, all ]
in perfcft repair, as aie all the Water Works connect- j
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built lor the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State. —There are abou l two thousand acres !
of Land, one half of which it under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Failure. The C-iiuion lately mannfafcitWed there,
fully proves lie excellency of the metal, which is
luperinr to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fi*ty-nine gtn s
lately mtde, althi ugh some of the 24 were bored
into 3a pounders, have failtd on proving. The fiiu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufaflure, and a place ol aims lying in the Itstc
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land •
ings on the Hudson's river, and haying every advan
tage that can result fram a plenty of water issuing
from > large natural pond, very near the Furnaee,
and whi :h may be convened into a variety of other
•ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beacebmmodat.
Ed with all theAoekai'd utensils, and have polfcflion
on Or belote the firft of June next, and preparation
may be jnade in the mean tfme for going into Blast im
mediately therealter, for every pan will be delivered
in gOod order,' with some coal.O/e, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. ]oleph Anthony, in Philadel
phia D*id Brooks, E'q. one of the Reprefsntative»
u> Cor.g'refs for this State ; Mr, D.ivid Wateiman, on
the premises, or to theptooiietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee 3^wtF
Houic and Lots, in Bordentown.
"" J ""O JSE jSOLD, a handsome tw» story House. |
JL with the Lot on which it is ereflcd, fituatcd
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The heufe is forty two
sett front, and in neat* order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one hilndred feet on the maiu
flreet, and extends with the fame breadth tqbaak
ftrctt. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, fcparuted from the farmer by back ilreet.
One third only of the p\irchafe money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and ,lor the re
mainder, fucli credit will be given as the purcnafe
er may chufe. This property will be fold free •-
all incumbrances, and an indifptitable title giveaf
For further particulars enquire cither "of Dr.
William Burns?, rcfidiug in Bordentown, near,
the premises, who will lliew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-Areet.
December a. 3awtf
Real Estate for
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and goad si
tuation on Chester Creek, in Middlcton
Townthip, Delaware County, containing 119'
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which, are wood
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadcrtv—of the latter, uiany more
acres can b« made at a small expence. There are
on said prsmifes, a good orchard of bell grafted
fruit, a house, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with stabling under, and a log teocmont on
one part of said place Any person inclining
to purchase, may view the premises by applying
to Wm. Pennbul, on said farm, and know the
terms by applying to Jonathan Pennell, in the
borough of Ckefter.
November 71. 3 1 ee d
To be fold,
An ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish traft lane, in the
townihip of Mofamenfipg, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this pksce, for tatte and
elegant, stand unrivalled.
December f. dtf
All Persons who are indebted to
the estate of William Hevsham, fen. of Phila
delphia, deeeafed, are requested to- make speedy
payment; and those who have any demands a
gainst said estate, will pleafeto present them,pro
perly attested, to the fubferibers.
William Heyfham, ~i
Robert Hey/ham. > Executors.
Francis Bowes Say re, J
november 6. 2aw4lV
~ LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. y P. RICE, Bookfellersy«
No. Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals trom
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latsft and most
approved Law Books, which.added to those alrea
dy on hanil, forms the most extensive collection ev
er offeredfor sale in this countfy. They theiefore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of theig
connections in Dublin, they are enabled to felllrinr
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports ii Chancery, 1 v,.ia.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Re/orta
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floyer's Procters
PraiSice in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pradtice of
thc'Court of King's Bench in Personal Anions, 2
parts complete j Ward s Law of Mations { Cruise
on Oses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion. .
H. and P.Rice mcpe<tt to receive by the nrfl ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnfordand East's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
A person well acquainted with
the theory aijdpraiticrot
nianyycais.ngaged in bu fi:~ ess 1 orh::r. ic.l t-and o/Jicr-,
I would glad"to beeknployc.l, either as -a;i a^c;r P
or fa#or; or in porting books; ilating unfctt.lcd
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ
iiijj, in French orEnjrliiii,
A note addrcfied to J. A. ani left at this ofiice,
will be pdnituaHy attended to.
novemher 30. Jawlf
I
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpefl. to his Friends, and the
Public in general, informs them that he hasopensd
an Office, at bis house, No. 88, Spruce Ilreet, for
purpo:e of tranfaifting business in the line of
Commilfion and Agency, colleCling rents and out-i
ftapding claims in any part of the linked States
He flatted himfclf, that from his longrefider.ee in
ihis country and a general knowledge ol it, hisfer
cices will be found worthy the noi ice of thofi who
may please to cotlfiJe to him the management of
any "of their concerns.
N- B. Security given where require^.
Ilth mo 14 gtawtf
~ T FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 7j, South
Water-firect,
A general afTortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Lnteftrings
Do. da. Handkerchiefs
Do. do- 1 fewin^Silks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and (hort Naakeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
AfTorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanua Sugars, in boxes
Molasses, in hoglheads
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter caflcs
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chests
Logwood, &c. &c.
,»v 7.—tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
For Sale, by the Package,
For calh, or good notes at Gxty or ninety days,
viz.
Book and Jaconet Mnflins plain")
stripes, and Checks j ,
do. P do. Tamboured } A(r °, rted ,n
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & |
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chiqtz m»flin for home and the Weft
India market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs,
for dn. do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz Ihjwls.
T&e above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few scotch cambricks and an
aflortment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufacturers in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackburn's
Oflice, No. 64, Sou#i Second.Street.
Nov. 6. aawtf.
NOTICE.
T'HE Stockholders of the Bank of the United;
States, are informed that according to the
llatute of Incorporation,a general ElcAion for
twenty five DireAors willbe held at the Bank
of the United States in the City ps Philadelphia,
on Monday, the lirll day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
Arid pursuant to <he Eleventh fe>3ion of the
■ Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Bank
arc hereby nbtjfied to allemble in general Meet
ing at the fame placeman Tuesday the second
day of January next at five o'clock in the £-.
vening. \
By order of the Board-as directors,
Q. SIMPSON, Cashier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne Oireflors
in office, excluGve of the President, shall be e-
Isgible for the next fucreeditig yrar,- bwt the"
Direilor who (hall be President at the time of an
Election alwayjbe re-eleiffed.
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797., ftE
N O T I C E.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be cenfidercd as re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLE Y,
JACOB BAKER.
novtmber, 43. tuth&fim.
N u T 1 C E.
THE partnerlhip between John Instoni and
James Bacon, under the firm oflnftone and
Bacon, it this day dilTolved by mutual confeot.—
All persons who stand indebted to fa d firm are
requested to make immediate payment of their
refpc&ive accounts, to John Sky kin, on Landen
burger's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all persons having any demands a
gainst the said firm, are desired to bring in their
accounts immediately to him for settlement.
John In ft one,
, James Bacon.
November #O. eodtf
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land;
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
seven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and pofTeffion had in a few weeks.
Part sf the purchase-money being paid, a reason
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
november % mwftf
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
•V ate he s. Also, a general aflortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, confiding of Clock Movt
. ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and Urge Work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glafies, Punaice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, fland and tail!
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals.Xeys, &c. &c.
* # * Apprentices Wanted,
november 3. firtutf
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the preft, and will be publiflied,
with all convenient expedition, by Zsxha
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftrect,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptihns will continue
to bereceived, and at tbe Philadelphia Library,
according to tbe printed propcfals> until tbe
work is ready for the fubferibers.
Jnly rB. a?wtf
English Grammar,
The feccul edition, with improvements,
A DAI' TED to the different claffe3 of learners ;
with an appendix, containing rule* and ob
ferva'iOEsfor allidingthe more advanced dudents
to write with perfpiruity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully
anfwets the profeflions in the Title. The appen
dix contains I'ome of the bed rules for writing e-j
legantly, and with propriety, that we recoiled: to
have ften."
Monthly Review, July 1796.
" This Grammar is, en msny accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, its materials have been
carefully anJ judiciously feleiled ; Us arrangement
is ififtinil end well adaptsd to the pnrpofe of in
drti<Sion and its erpreuion is fiijjple, perspicuous
and accurate,. ftpi" .
See the churaSer at. latge in the Analytical
Re-otcvii,
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately publiihed by
Ljndley Murray, confiding of exemplification of
the parls of speech, indancesdf falfs orthography,
violationsof the rules of syntax, defects in punc.
tuation, and violations of the rules refpeding
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit
qf private learners, as well as for theufe of schools.
" Wa have been much plcafed with the petufal
of these Exercise?/ They occupy with distinguish
ed excellence a mod important place in the fcicncc
of the English language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
attaining corre«slnefs and precision in their native
tongue." 1
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797>
The above Books are for sale at Josini &James
Ckbksiianks book store, No. 87, Market ilrect.
December I. 3tawzw.
NOTI CE. _
ALL peifons concerned are hereby notified,
that the fnbfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for*
warded them under cover of a letter addressed to
John Anfley, of London, by the (hip Bacchus, capt.
George, which}eft thjs port in June lad for Lon!.
ion. "But that (hip having been captured on her
passage and sent to'Krance, the above letter and ro
clofurcs tiave failed inthtir deftinatiouV .
Thqee >tes, viz.
Nos. 26325, 2632€, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January ift, 1797, and
iflued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Hightrofs, Grsat Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, noQemher 8. 2aw6w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
OA. 17. eotf
A Compting House to let.
A Mod convenient Compting House is now for
hire on RofsVwharf, directly over the arch.
Ear terms, apply to
Samuel Bred, jun.
No. 89, south Third ftrcet.
Where may be had,
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about 900
pieces of flout Canvass ; a small quantity of Mace,
andfome high proof Brandy ; Sherry Wine, Cho
colate in boxes, Window Glass of various sizes
and dimenfjons. Dec. I.—eo6t
Samuel & iVhers Fisher,
ARF. NOW OPEHINC,
At thqir Warehouse, No. 37, DocWStreet, a frefh
assortment of Wtjolen and other gocros. AiitaMe to
the season, received by the laite arrival! from Eng
land.
Thty have mfo for Salt,
Lisbon
Sherry''"an 4 fP'P* s >hhas. and quarter calks-
Port Wines, J
Assorted qneen'sware in crates, &c.
lothmo-ljd. diw3taw3w.
James C. & Samuel W. Fiflier,
AT THEIR STORE,
No. 13, corner of Arch and Front streets,
RAFE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, assorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futt romall Handkerehids
Ditto Pullicat (ilk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafis ditto
Qitto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffeties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few cheQs bed Hyson Tw
Alfo —1500 boxes bed London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, assorted, which they wjlldifpofe of cheaper
than any in .the city.
no-yrmber 18. 3»wtf
Imported (via New York) on the
(hip Hero, from Madras and .Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chcfnut dreet,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Charconna Dorens
Chinfe arrid Calicoes ~ Dacca wdrked uiuQins
Gillis Romal* Bandannoes
Nillas & fcnfiat'oes Chada Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
Mull Mullhankerchiefs Palempores
Patna do. panares Opium
Leffcr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November 17 , tuths4w
FOR SALE, bj
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Eourdeaux Brandy, ifl and id
proof, just landed
150 bales of Bourbofi cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in-bales
Bourbon Indigo Of the ftrfl quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ) In pipes &
do. market do f qr. calks.
New England rum in hogsheads, «
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermsceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Bodon beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels /nd half barrels
Do. Herring in do do
Best Bodon Msckarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-EngUnjl tow l : p«n
A few tuosof Rnflia cordage
RuflFa "featbrr bed*
Clover and Timothy feed in ;alks
whale-bone
No r, a, and f, Bodon fail duck )
A few cheds firft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
400,000 weight of choice St. Do
mingo COLFEE,
FOR SALE BY
JAMES YARD.
November a*. diot
For Sale, 1
'Thai will known place, coiled VANDtGRitt' i
Fißiy,
ON Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phili
ladelphiaj on the New York post road, ,
containing 74. acres and 94 perdfes. Upon the
f>retflifes are a large two liary stone house occu- ( -
pied as a tvern, and a good one story (lone kit- s
chen, a large frame liable with a good threlhing 1
floor, and l'ome out buildings—also a well of J
gosid water, and an excellent ice House. On J"
this place is a mod elegant (ituation fora gentle
man's Oat, commanding a view of the Nefham- (
iny toits jun£lion wiih the Delawa»e, and thence
across to the Jersey (hore. It has the privilege (
of one half lhe toll received from the liridge. j
For terms apply to the SaWcribci, s
MORDECAI LEWIS. (
May 34- atawtf. p
For sale or to be let on grourid
n rellt »
Aipaluable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE oh the north-eallcorner of Vyal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front J
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two final! two ilory brick houses, and a
number of l'mall tenements thereon.
Al/o, for Sale,
Two three story BrictHoufes
With convenient (lores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four'feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa£lor,or others who \
may have occasion for storage of goods. This |
property will be fold on very reasonable tarms
forcalh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
Jujl Publi/hed,
And to he hid of Muffm. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cery, and the other pricrpal Bookfeiiers in tjie
city .price one dollar, twmty-five cents, in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June ao. *6t
• School Books and Stationary.
W. Y O~U NG,
No. i», Second-street, corner of Chefnnt-dreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of Englifb, French, Latin and Greet
' SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price j dols.
Ditto, large 11 mo price 1 dol. 75 ets.
, Ditto, common, price r dol. jocts.
All (ijjes of drawing, packing, printing, and
iwriting Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Padeboards,
Iheathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank' Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ef
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
£7 Catalogue; of a miscellaneous colle&ion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. 24* —3aw6w
•Th« Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts f*om the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Sccoad and Arch "Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tut/Jay, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the irorning ; arrives at tro
ver the #rftda/, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the tbied d«y, and'b**
the morning of the fourth day the paffengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fei ry,
every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry'for Philadelphia, every
MonJay, Wedncfday and Friday; puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia ill the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this routt,between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is to miles less than on any stage route
between those places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
difnnce, so good a road in America.
Anguft ii. dim.eotf.
City of Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Fedttal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house ao,ooo dollars,
Jc caih go., 000, are jo,ooo
i ditto 15,000 & call 15,008 40,004'
T ditto j5,0p0 t & cafli 15,000
1 ditto io,ooo & cash 10,000 14,000
"*' jTrthtn 5,000 k cash Si6dt*-**sp,ooc,
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
1 calh prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each,are ■ 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - lO,OQC
»o do. 500 / *IO,OOO
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
100 do. jo - 10,000
400 do. 15 * - 10,000
1,000 do. ao - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 - 159,000
I
16,W9 Prizes.
33,161 Rlanks
50,000 Ticketij at Eight Dollars,- 400,00#
N. B. .Tofavour those take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
rhe last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approved notes, fectiring payment in either
mon»y or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpccimen el
the private buildings to be ertAed in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful designs ;rc already
(ele&ed for the entire front* on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed toereel
two centre and c our corner buildings as foonaepof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, tt> the fortunate- ii?
the manner de(£ribcdin the fchcme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, See. and the surplus will be made a part oJ
the fund intended for the Nati3iial Unsvetuty, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment ol the
Prizes, are held by the Prefidenj and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of thelettery.
SAMUEL BLODOMT.
»§, Tieketsmay be had at the BMik ol Colsm
hia ; of James Wed & Co. Baltimore; of Feter'
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond :
■and of Richard Wills, Cooper's Ferry. mwf
FOR SALE,
et the subscribers, No. 21, Pean-ftreet,
"I he Cargo of the Ship Ganges, j
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Confining of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coffaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Hnmhums Charcouna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicses MulmuU j
Mamoodyi Checks
Maharagonges Patsa Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas jiandannots
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Rom ah Pertians of various colours
Mock PoKcats
>O9 tons SUGAR ,
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willing! £9* Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of (he Ganges are now open and exposed to file !t
that commodious {lore the north well corner of
Market and Fourth ftr«et. ruv.'io.
LANDING,
From on board the ship Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from London,
60 tons of the best clean Russia
HEMP
60 raits of bottled BROWN STfcUT.
For Sale by the Aibl'cribers, No. »i, Penn-Areet.
Willings & Francis.
o<sl. 3«. ' d
Just arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the fAfcri
bers, No. »i, Penn-ftreet,
641 hogiheads,"}
(Prime Coffee
646 bags j
Willings & Franas. K
Oil. 28.
FQ$ SALE— ; lxy the Spbscsi?M3,
An elegant afl'ortment'of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the hale.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
nov. 21. § Penn-ftreet.
" FOR "SALE;
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Ltfhen WINE, in pipes
CLOVESand') - . ,
NUTMEGS f ofthe l ate " lI T l P orta "® n > in Boxes
Spanish Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftrOet, No. 21.
Nov. 1. w&stf
A Journeyman Hiair-DrefTer,
WHO is sober and steady, and understands
his bulinefs, may have immediate em
ployment, en application 'to GEORGE AB
BOTT, No. 9, Chefnut-ftreet. Nov. 27.
eodiw. ■■ '■*
Imported in thefhip Man Chester,
Benjamin Shewßll, Master,
From Bourdeaux, andfor sale by th"?Ttfbftfiber,"
No. 11. Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irilh market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. f" Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. j
T/wmas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS KOR SXLE.
SRerry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. t»t&stft
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repoficory of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge is opened daily , as
usual. It {WK in an airy and healthy situation,
and free from the epidemic that at prefeht alßi&s
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatest fafety. '
As an AiKufement, the study of Nature is the
' mod rational and pleating : as a Science, the null
sublime and inftru&ive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They s
" Whom Naturit •works can charm, 'with 9od bimfelf
" Hold convtrfc." >
Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Museum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the molt rare and beautiful
fubjefls, is now very advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as lifs (lomeofthem
cafls from nature) are here dressed in their proper
habits, and plaeed : .n attitudes characteristic of their
refpedtive nations. Here may be seen the North-
Americati fhe Savage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Cfiinefe, and the Chinese Genric
mu—tit* iooty African, and the Kamtfchadalc—
with some Natives of the South Sea J Sands. Tha
immense variety and interefling diversity which
this Muleum offjrs to the view, may bafeenbut
cannot be defcribcd withYull e flail.
Price only I-4th of a dollar.
Seyt. 28. I&w
Davis's Law Book Store,
Ne. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING hulled for feme time paft'in prepara
tions for removing into his prafent houfe,fcas
been under thenecedityof poftpouinguntil thisday
informing the gentfcmsn ofthe Bar generally thro*
' the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
termsthat he trusts will «ntitle;hiitf totholikt fre
: freence he has experiencedforueveral years pad.
Catalogues, the molt vjried,cnlLc
tion ever imported idto this country, are (.raited
r and will be delivered on application.
' June 27. • ' 2iw
, ' Bollon Glais Manufa&ory.
f TPfifi citizens of the-Umcfcd States are hereby
j X that the Window
6 is now commenced at.the GlassHouse in Bof
i ton.
It is needlcfs} to fay uny thing of die excellent
quality of the Boston Olafs, as it is so we'll knovrn
throughout the (Jnittcl s?tates to be in every refpeA
.] greatly fuptrior to any ever imported from Europe..
j It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be confwntly had by applying t* Charlis F.
I KuffEß, at the Glass House.
: prders from the distant to be addressed tp-
Mr. Samuel. Gore, Cowt-ftieet, Boston.
. Boston, Sept 30,1797. O4 —»aw6w
Mejjrs. Timothy an 4 Mafon y Charlejhn ; Mtjfrs.
j IhJge and JfoyJiiH, Halifax,,i\T.xC- M<£rs. Wlllett
and'O*Conner, Norfolk ; Air. Ellis Price % Alexandria ;
Mejfrs. Tundt and Broivriy Haiti more ; Mr. Hopkins
Nerv-York ; and JMtfrs. Hud fun & Goodwin, Hart'
r ? ford; Air. Seymour % Oavannab ; ate vequeJJed to irjeri
the vLoms once a week ( tveeks. Tbe> uaounts to he jor
f* xvarJrd it the Efitctr.