.
&■ .. * ■■ ' " % ~ W. ' ' *' $£ v' ; " i; r : v' ,*•-.■■330-.. : Vv-j •'/■'"■ :■ R'~ . ' r^-
&VstttZ of tbe JsbtHtoS ? & P>Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number i*g S ] MONDAT EVENING, FEBRUART 27, 1797- [V(hume XI.
- ■ —— " _ . _ _ 1■ r n r* 1 T M «r
For Charlcfton and Savannah,
* ■ THE •CHOOKI*,,
Olivir Jenkins, Maftcr,
WILL take freight on moderate terms, and be ready to
ake in in a fsw days. Apply to
JOSEPH AN fHONY & Co.
[
"" For CHARTER,
1 1 Jft,, XM* mi«U BR-iG
Friendship,
*>C— Lorentz Matzen, Master,
A strong, new vessel, with a Mediterranean Pafo, bur
then about 240 tons. For terms apply to
February 19 —§ PHILIPS, CR.AMOND & Co.
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nanct,
wifw Cuthbert Riggs, miller.
St W Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or palTage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels/ and 1 boxes Linens
25 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Rnffia Matti.
Also, .
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
TJovembrr it. 1-06. | .
For Rotterdam,
HAVING the grrateft. part of her cargo engaged, wil.
fail with all convenient speed. For Freigut or Pauage, apr
ply to the captain on board, or to
"' * JOSEPH SIMS
February til mw&t
For Amsterdam,
■ jBrSgT The faft fairing cedar and live oak
fliip Amiable,
/)• C. Tillingha/l, Mtffltr,
JUST _graved ind in complcat order, and is now ta
king in, and intended to fail in all this 'nonth, a great
part of her cargo being ready to go on board, has good
accommodations for paflengers. For freight or pafiage
apply to the m.after, an board, at Blight's wharf,
JEREMIAH WARDER,
No. 12 South Third oreef.
February 1 n\v ■f2 w
For Hamburgh,
"JBK The fine fall-failing (hip
Jebn Thompson, Mnjler,
JUb T copp-i cd, aud in complete order, and is now loadiiig.
A C .i.i'nlcr.ulL I «Cjfo~M»g>rb hjs giio,] actom
mnda-ions for patenters. and intended to fail in the course
ot this month. —For freight or palTage, apply to the Mailer
on board, at JJriffhL's whaif, or to
JEREMIAH WARDER,
Noi 12 north Third street.
February 1; mw&fiw
For Sate,
A Quantity of Excellent
Turks-Island Salt,
Aud a few hogsheads
and 4th proof Rum.
Cnquire of
Jehu Hollingsworth Is* Co.
February' 17 !_
> Lisbon Wine.
50 Pipes of Lisbon Wine, landing at MefTrs. Sum
mer! & Brown's wharf, between Arch and Race streets,
from ship Neptune, Capt. Jeffries, from Lisbon. in
Pipes, Hot,(heads and Quarter Calks, for sale by
• PETER BLIGHT.
February 18. §7t
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id proof,
Giu, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old HocK, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler?, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different files
Hazlenuts, in fecks
Whiting
w£ P T , > in hhd»
White Lead C
k SpaniJb Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 $
James Brown,
At No. 119 South SecondJlreet,
HAS just received per the brig Peggy, capt. Hardy,
from Amsterdam, a small invoice of D U T C H
GOODS, consisting of
Ticklenburgs
Flax;n lini 11 Oznaburgs
Coffee-Mills, No. o to 4
Straw knives
Scythes 10 hands long—and
Glass tumblers aflorted
Which he will full oa good terms by the package.
Also on hand,
A few Quarter-caflcs Malaga WINE, and
500 Gallons Spirits Turpentine.
Febtuary 23
Mr. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Published,
AND FOR SALE Br THE EDITOR,
Price three eights of a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinck-
Bey, Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States, to
tbe French Republic. February 91.
IVJ NTS A PLACE.
AWrftnan who can be Well recammeeded for honesty, fo
btiety, and good temper. She wilhes U) engage as cham
bermaid, or frmpftrefs for low wages on condition file may
retain a young child with her. Enquire at No. 58 South
Ft out fireet, February >6 d
Frejh Garden, Grass aud Flower-Seeds,
Roots, C9 s c. isfc.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by 1
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE, ]
Corner of Walnut and Sccond-ftreets,
A mojl capita/ and sxtcnflve Ajfartment »f \
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS, j
. ROOTS, .Stc. Sic.
Among which ar«,
Five kinds Afparagtts! Three kiada Creffos :
Four Berecok, Twelve Gn.on 1
Twenty-fire Beaas i hirteea Radilh 1
Beets! Fifteen Turnip
Kleven Brocoli Filters Peas ■
Twenty-fix CabbageijSU Savoy 1
Sjj Carrtti Four Parinip
Three CauliflowerjjTwenty-three Melon !
Fi ve CeleryJ'fwentjr-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber)!
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled laaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Mary gold * Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek . Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucern« 1
Red and white Clover ' Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the mod eilcemed 1
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the moftextenfive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, £nd
are warranted trefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. I?
Bourdeaux Brandy, in Pipes,
OLD Claret, in cafl;&
Ditto in cases, oi a« excellent quality
Lisbon Wine in pipe*
r<,aill) oof Holland Gin
New-England H.um-in hogflieadi tierce^
Raisins in kegs
Bed Boston Beef and Pork
Halifax Salmon in barrels
Riillia Sail Duck.
Ravens Duck
A trw Feaiher Beds
One 11 i-2 inch Cable ) r . ,
One 9 do. do. \ 1 *°f»thon»i longi*a#h
Spennacaeti Candles
Mould and dipt Tallow ditto
A few barrels Tanners Oil, and
A small invoice of India Goods,
For Sale bv
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co
ALSO,
Just received from MarJeilles, a fmalVinvoice of Silks, Silk
Stockings, an afifortrneut of Perfumery, and a few cases of
the belt Olive Oil.
February 15 §ipt
For Sale,
A T R AC f OF LAND,
CON:ainicg 320 acres, 111 Harford county, 5 miles dis
tant front Belle-Air, 27 from Baltimore : the im
provements ire, a two-story brick dwelling-houie, finifh
ed in a genteel manner, with ftotie kitchen and cellar;
a bam, and other convenient out buildings; a GRIST
' MILL, lately built, h*n a good (land for country or ruer
" chant work ; tl ana-other— 30 ».•
«r<e* of prime timothy meadow ; and nearly as much/ more
may be made from the conveniency of watering; 80 a<fe»
of woodland, well timbered. Thcf field* are well# off f
and under good fence : the situation is very anu
Hea(*hy. the whole of this property may be had for
- Two thirds in hand, and the remainder in ealy
pay ments, 22501. would be taken, all cafli. Foffefllon
might be had in 6o days and an indisputa
ble title given by ROBERT BRYA^LV.
February 20
•Mahogany and Logwood.
A Cargo for Sale on hoard of the fljip Sally, captain
Qelflou, just arrived Honduras.
Apply to
PHILIPS, CRAMOA'D & Co.
February 9 $
<£> NOTICE.
"PHE Sales of LANJDS of the United States, in the
1. North-Weftem Territory, heretofore advertised
> in the several public papers, will commence this everi
-1 ing, atthe City Tavern be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not foouer I
fold.
. January 4 J
JUST AkRIVED, '
By the Danilh fliip Friendlhip, captain Matzen, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine, 1
In Pipes, Hogsheads an* Quarter-Calks,
150 of Lemons,
jt'or Sale by
Philips, Cramond iff Co,
February 9 §
Notice,
HPIIE ELEPHANT will leave town pofitiveiy car-
J- !y in March.
Admittance—one qnarterof a dollar.
Children—half price.
N. B. An ELEPHANT TOOTH weighing 54
poifnds to be fold. Enquire at the place wh«re the Ele-,
, phant is kept.
I l'eb. 20. d
Wanted,
A NURSE, t. attend a lick Lady, a few miles from
this city a perfoo well recommended, will be im
mediately employed, and liberally rewarded. For infor
mation enquire of the Editor of this Paper.
Frbfmrv 24
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
N®. A3 South Third street.opposite the national new Bank'
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES ar.dJOHN VAN REEi/,
have entered into co-partnerihip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED.in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every species of Itock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Monev procured on deposits, &c. Sec. 'all kinds c<
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neMnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
r.ioft correct manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a fharli of the public favor ; they ife deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The Ktnioil obferved.
SAMUEL M. FR AUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED,
fkilad. aujuft m&.wtf
A House and Lot.
FOR SALE,
A HOUSE anti Lot, in a good neighbourhood, and
pleafaiit flotation ; it is the jtfcoiid Houie call of sth
street, of that haudfome row of new buildings, now near
finifoing, (itaate oa Arch, between fourth and Fifth
streets ; and is about twenty feet front and forty-two feet
deep : the Lot is abeut eighty feet deep, more or lets:
and above the height of the firft ftoty has a pleasant open
ing to tlxe bouth, of perhaps hundred feat store.
Poffeflioii nfay be had about t& lit of April or May next.
Terms are, three thoiifand dollars t<*be paid «n receiv
ing the title, and the residue if desired may remain fc»r
fcven years 011 fecunty and intereft —or J*AC A N'T LOTS
fltwate on Arch street, anywhere between Front and
Twelfth llfeets, will ho taken in payment, either in part
or for the \vh®le anuAiot of the purch^fe; according to
their rulue at liberal rv-.tcs.
For further particulars, please to apply at theCounfing
House of the Subscriber, Arch-ftrcet, No. 146, any
moraiog, from 7 to o o'clock.
WILLIAM SANSOM.,
February si UM4
Pennsylvania Population Company.
NOTICE is hereby given, to such Share-holders as
as havu not paid their afl'cffinents on their(hare9 —to
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary ot the Compa
ny, as. the Compaay's Qflice, No. 53 north Fourth-street,
Philadelphia. rfcey are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
bruary, inftanr, the several forfeitures will be dridlly ex
ailed, in conformity to the lift article afTociation. ,
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAR ACHE, Secretary
Feb 1. _ 6 &>3
important Public Document.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Ed.tor of the Gazette of the
United States,
No ni} Chctuui-S-reet,
[pile* ONK 60LLAR AND FIFTY CBNTs]
A FEW COP Ib S OF THfc
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNfTIiD STATES,
For the Year 1794,
Being the Latest Period to which an account can be
be made up. Februarys §
This day is pubiijhed,
By Wiliam Gobbet, i* three lar;;e odtavo volumes,
A Defence of the Conftiiutions us Govern
ment of the United States of America,
Againfl the attuck of M. Turgct, in his Letter to Dr.
Price, dated the twenty second day ql March, 1778,
By JOHN ADAMS, LL. U.
Pfijidcnt of the United Stales.
Embellilhed with a Unking Likencfs of the author,
elegantly eng.aved by Soulier—from ait original portrait
by Cub try. February 23 —§3W
Red Clover Seed.
Fretti red Clever Seed of the best quality, in bags of
5 bufhefs tach
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate ufr
,Ten~ru!L wine in pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks
Ditto do. of skit quilitj'j for the uie of private
families
Ceflte it) hogsheads
Jamaica spirits
Goflaeflicut soap in small boxes
indow gial's »ai Spariifh fegars, and
Two trunks of beti patent, plain and ribbed silk and
cotton ho£;ry, for faie bv
JOHN CRAIG.
February 1. wfl'&mtf
FOK SALE, BT
Philip i\icklin & Co.
I"?," I *"'} r s
17 Tubs Quicksilver r
2 Cherts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few cl;t.>s Mancheiter Goods, well afiorted in Cor
duroys, Thicksets, Ginghams, Maflinets, Dimities, See.
3 'Drunks black Sowing ;>i!k
180 Crates Queen's Ware, well affiortfd
X o Tons Sheet Lead
Nails aborted flat and (harp points
London PartiularV Madeira wine in pipes and hogf
lndia Market _J heads
40 Pipes and 10 HoglheadsTeneriffe Wiv.f
10 Hog(kj,idf. choice Port Wine
7 Tierces Snake-Root
26 Calks yellow Paint
9 Boxes and Is Bundles writing SlatGS
I Box Ink Stands and Note PrelTes
14 Bales Sail Cauvafs afiorted, No. I to 8
February 11. i*w&£tf
MRS. G R ATT AN, *
RefpeAfully informs her friends, and the public In
general, that on Ttefday the icthday of January,
flie propolis opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftreet,
A Linen and Mullin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to 32/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 2/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/10 per yard
Fine Collaes
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard
India Mjuflin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muflm
Jaconet mullin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/per hdkf,
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to 10/6 per hdkf.
Mullin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd.Cravats from iqfi to 11/ ii
Pocket Handkerchiefs
. Cambric, fropi 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Gloths
HuckabuckTowelling
W omen s Cotton Hose, from to x-2[f per pair
Dimity from j/10 to (ifn
Men's Silk Hose .
1 Umbour'd muslin Handkerchief*from 11/ ii to 13/2
11 ri 111 linens for Gentleireo's Shirts, from to
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received- for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemea'i Shirts, rusHed or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, icc. &c.
Houlhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain ftirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars^
A full rusHed ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain Ihirt, made and mark'd, $ dollars.
A full rufSed ditto 6 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 1-2, dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full rusHed ditto 7 1-2.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 6 i-j dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included. 4
'' * ■
*
Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
i TT THERE4.S the State of Maryland has
i v v the underwritten, to raise twciity-c*
r two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpoie ot cutting
i a Canal through the City qi fro#.i th
t toraacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
: The following is the SCHEME ot N'o. f.
Vii -I Prize of lopoo dollars, »o,oop
i ditto... iQA**
Ti£ a „«r}»- '
6 ditto 1.000 *,ooo
f IO djtto 409 4,000
1 ao ditto 100 a,OOO
t 55 ditto 50 *,7
> j 750 ditto I» £9,00$
To bp raised for the Cwial, 16,15 a
f JBSO Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
a~jf The Comiuiflioners have taken the Securities re <
quired by the afccefaid aft for the pun&ual payment c(
4 | the prizes.
1 The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
* delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
» notice yvill be given.
' Such prize# as are not demanded in fix months after th*
* drawing is finished, shall be confidercd as reiinquiihed so»
" the benefit »f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DAN lEL CARR OLL, of P.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
» Wm. m.duncanson,
THOMAS LAW;
JAMES BARRY.
City of WaSjjugUK), Feb. 11. f
Robert Smith & Co.
N§. 58 South Front-fired^
HAVE FOR SALE,
A Quantity of Long Nankeens 3
ALSO, C
e An assortment of Ind i a G99 pS,
AMONG WHICH ARE,
Bandanos
Pullicates
Black and colored Ptrfiant'
Gurrahf
Punjams
Bsftaes,
r. Codies
Humhuma, See. together with
A general alfortment of European Goods
Suitable for tha ensuing season.
r > February ao myy&f3w
it _ •
A Black Boy.
TO BE SOLD, the time of a smart, a&ive Black Boy,
who has about uxtccn years to serve. Enquire at Noj
HI Chewat street. February 13 §
FOR SALE,
e About 1,600 acres, of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marflj
and Beech Creek 6, Mifflin county, Pennfy.lvania, io
four feparatc Patents. For terms oi sale apply t.9
Wm. Blackburn,
d N«. 64, S»uth Srcond-ftreet
January 16. mwftf
' __________
Or A Pi&ure of Youth. -
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable
on delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
Bull. ' ' " ' "*
CONDITIONS.
I. Handsome, neat type, perfedllj new, is em?
r- ployed.
11. A volume, stitched in blue paper; is intended
to be publilhed every a weeks, till the five are com
pleted ; the firft and second are come to hand, and the
third is hourly expected. Subfcnptions are received,
and Books may be had of J. ORMROD, No. 41,
f " Chefnut-ftreef " f 7 '
is \
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the laurels she has already acquirer* in the
literary world. The ltrength of imagination and ele
gance of ilyle, displayed in Evelina and Cecilia, w ill
fufficiently tecommend to every reader of taste and
judgment, the perusal of Camilla.
in England, after having perused this interesting publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thousand
Ij' pounds llerling, as a teftimoiiy of her approbation of
she work.
January 15 mw f
LANDING, '
AT Walnut-street wharf, from on board the ship Peg
gy, captain Elliott, from Bourdeaux,
VIN DE GRAVE, or White ClarJt, in Hhds and Qr.
Calks
RED CLARET, in Hhds
Ditto in cases of a 4 and 30 bottles each
Green and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chests
For sale by
Rundle f Leech,
Nn. 9 Walnutitreet.
February 6 _ mwftf
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT I have applied to the Judges of the Supreme
Court of this State, to supply the defe& in my title
to a lo.of ground Gtuate on the Weft fide of Fourth-street,
containing in breadth 20 feet and in length 56 feet, bound,
ed northward and weft ward by ground ef the fubfcrib«r
fouthward by ground of Edward Shippen, and eastward
by Fourth-street ; occasioned by the loss of a deed from
Timothy Harrington, John Lewis and James Walton, by
14 their attormey Robert Molly-eux. All fcerfons concerned
»> are required t® appear before the Justices of the said Court
at the City Hall in the city oi Phiadelphia, on the third
Monday in Mareh next, to make their answer to the bill
of the fubferiber, filed in the office of Edward Burd, El« .
prothonotary of said court. William Shippen, jun.
February 14
A Young Gentleman,
WHO can come well recommended by a refpeftable
merchant of this city, would be willing to engage cither
as a CLERK in an accampting house, public office, or
wholesale (lore. A line addreffedto A. B. and left with
the Printer of this Paper, will be duly att.ndedto.
February 13
ITHE WA RNING No. IV.
THJ? France, when driven from every o
ther expedient for extenuating her depredations, have
a last refuse in the example of Great-Biitain. The treat
ment which we now receive from France (fay they) is
not werfe than that which we have received from Great-
Britain If this apology were founded in fa St, it would
(kill be a miierahle fubtcrfuge. For what excuse i» it to
France, or what consolation to us, that flic, our beafted
friend and benefasrefs, treats us only not worse than a
power which is stigmatised as an envioas rival and an im
placable foe ?
i he conduft of Great Britain, appealed to in juftifica
tion of prance, was admitted by all to be inexcusable.
Hhe fa&ion thought it so extfeme as to call for im
mediate i tprifals. The real Patriots differed fiom them
only in thinking, that an armed negociation, to endinrc
prifals, if unattended with was preferably to im
mediai How dare the men, vtkoat that period
c ' ar * l . orcus champions of our national dignity,
how dare thsy (I pft) now to ft and forth the preachers,
nor of moderation ('or in the propriety of this all unite)
r»ut of tame fubmiflion,—.of a fervilky ahje& enough to
love and cheyifh the which deipoils us, to kiss the
rod which flings us with unprovoked lashes ? What logic,
what magic, can render innocent or venial in France, that
which was to criminal and odious in Great Britain ?
1 he pretext (we know) of France is, that we have per
mituil Great Britain to treat us in the fame manner, and
that llie ads on th« principle of a jult retaliation ; and her
deluded or debauched adherents are mean or proftitutc e
nough to re-echo the excule.
Let us grant, for argument fake, atl ihs t .can he pre
tended on this fwbjaift, namfclj, that through wan' of ener
gy in our administration, or from the opinion which - en
tertained of the situation of the country, there has keen
too much patience under the oppreflions of Grc.it
—ls this really a juftification to France ? Is a defe<ft of vi
gour in the government of one country, or an under es
timate of its means for repelling injury, a fuffinrat ca«ie
lor another government, iavtfk.in profeffion.ef friendfltip.
to imitate towards it the aggressions w.hich it has fuffered
from an oppressor ? What in private life would be ftiid of
the man, who calling himfelt the friend of another, be
cause the last hud too paflively allowed a third, the enemy i
of both, -a wrest from him a portion of his property,
JUonld deduce from this a pretext to strip him of th; re.
manner ? Has language "epithets too fevtre forfuch a cha
racter ? Isnot the guilt of unjufl violence in a cafe like this,
aggravated by that of hypocrisy and perfidy >
But this is not our only reply.' The tru-h is (and a truth
•we may boldly proclaim) that we never slid tolerate the
aggressions of Great Britain ; that we have fleadily refill
ed them, and refilled with fuccefc—t n the refpectal le at
titude of an armed negociation, feeonded by the felf-de
*ying and very influential measure of an Embargo—we
fer.t to demand a revocation of the orders under which
we fuffered, and retribution for the losses which we had
fcflained. The orders were revoked and the retribution
has beenftipulated and the deputation is in a course of ho
norable and liberal execution redrefc of ancient
grievances, on the ground of a reciprocity, demanded by
every principle of redituuc, hits been fuperadded to that
of more recent ones. Our flag at this moment proudly
waves on the ramparts which had been so long detained
from us; and Indian butcheries alongthe whole extent of
our vafl frontier have been terminated. More than .this
—the redress obtained from Great Britain was a principal
cause of the happy eecommodation of our dispute with I
Spain—of the recognition of our right to navigate the
Itfiffifippi, and of (he establishment ef a Southern bound
ary equal to our mod fanguin# wifnes*. These ate the
• fruits (and immense fruits they are) of a vigorous
temperate resistance to the aggreflions of Great Britain T
'Tis therefore in every sense falls, that our Govern
meat has permitted Great Britain to, do as France is now doing.
Exc.-pt here-ar.d there the accidental irregularity of the
commander of a particular (hip, .there is not one dear
-right which the Jaws of nations entitle us to claim, that is
not now refpededby Great Britain, and to a degree unu
sual in the biilory of the treatment u.f neutral nations by
great belligerent pe wet's.
It follows, that "the fugjjeftion on which France bot
toms her ill treatment of us, "is a frivolous and a colourless
pretext. 'Tis to confound all jull ideas, to corifid?r a tem
poral y foroearance as a permission or acquiescence—to pre
tend to retaliate upon an injured party the injury which it
has endured from another, to preten i abttve a!I to retali
ate that injury after it has pjffed, hasceal'ed, an,d has been
redrefled. We are hound then to conclude, that our real
crime in the eye of«J ranee is, tnat we had the temerity
to think and to ail for ourfelvss, and did not plur.ge head
long into war with Great Britain,—that the principal
flreams of our commerce, from the natural relations *f
demand and fuj.plys, fltiw through the channels of her
commerce—and that the booty which' it Offers to rapacity,
exceeds the erganifed means of protection.
But a country, containing five millions «f people, the"
second in the numhefpf its seamen, that prime Anew ef
maritime force, with a varied industry, and an export ef
Cxty millions, understanding its rights, not (deficient in
spirit to vindicate them, if compelled against its will to
exert its flrength and r.fources, will under the gsidance
of faithful and patriotic counsels, be at no loft to convince
its defpoilers, that there is as much folly as wickedness in
such a calculat : on. This reflcflion ought at once t» con
sole and to animate us; though tf.e remembrance of for
mer frienrifhip, and a spirit of virtuous moderation, will
induce us still to wish that there may be some error in ap
pearances—that the views of .France are not as violent and
as hofl ile as they seem to be- -that an amicable explanation
may yet dispel the impending cloude, and 1 tighten the pc
litical horizon with a happy recoßcibatian
AMEMCUB.
* Tit: cwfcqueacc mn Jtrejcen and fcrttold. A::d the frt-
JiP.ien i: ctnjtrmed liy .that fart of the Declaration of War &f
Spain agarntl Great 11, itain, -which make: it a charge againjl the
letter, that'in the Treaty tenth the United Statu " fee had no re
'fpect or corftderaiion for the ii/ouni rights of' Spain ;" and in the
J-jdden disappearance > after that Treaty, of the ebjlacles -which
had so long impeded our negeciationi -with Spain.
(y The Stockholders
OF the Eennfylyania Population Company are request
ed to meet at the Company's Office, No. $i north
JY.urth Arret, on Saturday, the 4thof March next, at.l 2
.o'clock, for the purpofc of taking ir.to consideration the
" x proceedings of the company and ol making further assess-
oa thtiibares agreeably to the 20th article of the
Conftitittion. By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Sec.
f'b- »7 f,iM 4
Just PMt/hed,
AND TO BS SOi.B E.V TME BOOKSELLERS,
THE S>E£Cll
Of JostPH H. Flf.mjfg, -cf Philadelphia
In the LYCEUM, or fuciety ler free debate, at Mr.
J'oor's fchcol-hnuie, on Wednesday evening, Ee'ruary S*
the <£wefli 11 " Whether aKeprcfentative in a free gov*-
err.mcnt, is bound to a& by the will of his condiments, le
pally had. or by his >\Vn judgment iy nv.vf^t
Head of Chefler, §>uctn Anne's Cunty,
(Maryland) Ft bruary ly.'iJQ? l
fH'S Day, the Partneribip ef ANDREW M'CAoK
EY and Company haviug dissolved by mutual con
sent, those who have any demands againlt said Firm, are
desired to call onfaid M'Caikey for settlement, who isap
j>»int«d to fettle said conearn. Feb. 22—wf&m3t
WANTED,
Pennsylvania cank Shares,
Tor whi-b Cash, or appro ved A ctci at 60 clays, wiH
%e give», at the option of the Seller.
J-;«hruarj 10 —§ Apply at this offiee. I
■ ! '• • - •- v* ,
CONGRESS OF tub UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVfS.
Friday, January 20.
Mr. Coil allowed that nothing was ij)oit (?!ear
than that the manner in which the iouthern fiates
psid iheir appottionment of thepropofed bnrthetT,
could wake no difference to thenof-rhsrii anci eailery
flairs; -but the gentleman from Pennsylvania
Gallatin) allowed there was some weight in tl;r
sbj oft ions with to the alfefjn.eot and cyllec
tion of the tax.
If he cm,ierftood that gentleman, he fa-id that
the making an enumeration of (laves would make
no difference in the expense. He did not know
how this could be. If two objvfts were to di>, viz.
t-o value arid assess the .'and, and to enumerate and
value the flivesv, it was new dixfli ine to him, if chele
Uwo things would not cost more than if Qrtl}' one
had been done ; or, if this business would be done
for nothing, it would be one of the firlt things the
United Sates had had done upon those terms,
Upon the colle&ion there ivoijld also be an addi
tional expense, and a probability of loss ; the more
detail there was in the Lufineis, the greater the
liability to error and loss to the United States; and
in proportion to this loss, would theie states pay
less than others.
Mr. Hartley said he-fliould at present yore for
the propofiiion ; but Ihould fee! himfelf at liberty
to vote differently on the bill, if he did not ap
prove it. JDifficultirs arose in his mind as to the
propriety of fixing personal property in one state
and nut in another, by which meajis a bonnty feem
eA to be given.on land in the southern states to the
amount ol the difference of the taxes between the
land in those states and that in other ftat»s, upon
which purchasers would naturally calculate. This
difficulty iright probably be removed from his
mind ; and, therefore* in order to give the whole
bufkiffs a fair chance, he should wish the refalution
'to go back to the committee of Ways and Means
to bring i/i a bill.
Mr. Page did suppose that gentlemen coming
from states which were in the habit of c«llefting
direct taxes, would have endeavoured to accommo
date the business to thefuuation and ciroumftances
of different states, so as to make the fyflem the mok
convenient to each. He did Juppsfe, that when
ever it should hav/been determined to enter .upon
direst taxation, that funas would have been sppor
tioned to each state, a«d that they would have
been left to themftlves to have rasfed the money in
the way which they thought most convenient, in
superable objedtions, however, it seemed had been
found againlt this fyflem, 1 as appeared from the re
port of the Secretary of the Tieafury j but it was
I unreasonable that the northern dates should comr>
plain that the fouriiern states would pay the tax
with greater facility than them. They might, he ,
'said as well complain sgainft the lichnefs oi their
foil, or the waimnefs of 'their climate. 1
With rtfpefl to the tax falling lighter on the®
than on other states, those who held flaveß would 1
find it lighter, but those who had none, would not.
But he thought it extraordinary, that whilst they !
were ttpbraidea with holding a fptcies of property
peculiar .to Uici'i country, they (Hoyld also be tip- 1
braided with wishing to pay a duty upon that pro- !
perty. _ ' ,
Mr. P.Jfaid he did not fee what difference it c»nld i
make to other states, that th«y raifeel a-part of the
tax required of them from -slaves. Tiie fecretaiy I
of the trealnry had recommended this mode, the
committee of ways and means, had reported accord i
inoly, and they were ready to pay a tax far their
slaves, in addition to* the expence they were at for '
them already ; for it should be recJiefied that per
son's holding Caves, contribute largely to the duties ;
collefted from imports, by the purchase of-flannels
and cleth, rum molafles.&s. neceflary for their food 1
1 and clothing. ■
If a person living in s state whete fiavery did rot
exist, paid something more for his land, the differ- j
er.ee was certainly not equal to the fatisfa&ion he
must enjoy, in lefktting that his state was free from
that evil. His land, on that account, would be ! 1
worth three times as much, as land of the fame ! ;
quality in the Southern States. Why, then, do I :
gentlemen complain ? The Southern States them 1
selves might have objeaed to this tax ; they might 1
have doubted the constitutionality o£it indeed he 1
did doubt it, but he had agreed to it ; and he be- ' 1
lieved- there was no better way of making th« tax
go down io tlioff states, thaa fay the prcicm *mea i
sure. _ 'l|
For his own part, Mr. P. said, he wished he lived ;
wher.e there was no slavery ; and if he could find a i
climate he liked as well, he would change his .iitua- j
tions on that account.
Mr. Brent said itwasa-very extraordinary thing
that gentlemen who represented states where there :
were no slaves should oppose a tax on that (penes i
of property, and that ties Southern states where
tavery existed, fhould-be advocating that tax.
By the report of the fecretaiy of the treasury,
there appeared a deficiency of revenue, and in order 1 ,
to supply that deficiency, they had determined-to !
have recourse to direct taxes j and, after the amount
which each state ought to furnifh, had been afcer- ;
tained, he thought it should have been left to the
different states to have raised the money from such
funds as they judged best, provided they had been 1
ecure. This, he thought, would only have been ;
liberal and proper. It had, however, .been deter- I
mined othcrwife ; but, ftom a knowledge that by ,
introducing land and slaves together, a3 objects of 1
taxation, the tax would be more equally levied in 1
the fouiljern states, that plan had been adopted. ,
And surely, he said, -it could have given no satis- j-f
faftion u any-other state, that by laying, a
land only, ,it fnould have operated in a very op. t
preffive manner infomt parts of the fomhern state.,
and scarcely have been felt at all in other .parts of, ,
those states ; and yet this fhovld appear to be the ! ,
opinionl of the gentleman from NewHampfti,/; ,
for he had said, if this law pafftd, a person poffrlT- [ t
ing landed property in New- Hampshire of the va- f
lueof 10001. would pay more than a-land holder f
to that amount in the foutheru states. And was
this, he af3;ed, a fubjra of regret ? If the state bf c
Virginia paid the amouat required of her in a raafi . j \
- - " ■ * - - * ag•
ntfr which bore most upon tiie ivhol: oF her
ci'ixcps, oKght ll at to dilpjtafe the citiiens of other
states ? j He thought not. He wasof opinisn that
it would be t defirabh thing that the taxfhiittld be
found to fall equally 011 the citizens of every (late,
t Anoiher objection produced iaj the gentleman
s fmm ConneAi.-ut, ftlr. Goodric ) was that a tax
011 this species of p'operty would not be so secure
y as a tax an land if that ge.uleman had bt-;n ac
• 4,'uianted with the Southern States, he wo.uld have
" known that Slaves so mcd the most certain fund of
• those states ; f.>r whijlf tjjeir wild and ex:enfive
waste lands would not command any price, slaves
t were always ready fclCi Hence it arose that the
« States were not able to raifc a tax on land, wbilft a
v tax on slaves had never failed to be productive.
Wjih refpedt to the inconvenience or expence
1 attending a tax on slaves, in Virginia, he said no
; cxpence wptjd be necessary ) bacaufe it was the cuf
10m of that to take annually a lift of their
- slaves ; which \yas regularly recorded in tbe ar
■ chives of the flaie. if gentlemen were, theieforc,
so economical that they would not expend a few of
the public police to get a lift of this property, let
: them recHr to the dooHrr.ent he had tjient-ioned,
' whick might be done without expence.
■ To those who know thefituatian of the Sauth
' ern States, the icinaiks made by the gectlem»n from
Pennfylvann fMI", ipatlati*) must have been irre
" fttiatly impreffiye. Almoll the whole ps the lower
part of the country possessed property of this kind,
■ whilst the upper parts had scarcely any. if a tax
was therefore, imposed upon land only, the upper
: part of the country would i>e extremely aggrieved,
■ and would murmur, and they ffayM myrmui with
■ j lift ice.
Gentlemen from the Eastern States called tipen
the Rt prefentatives of th« Southern States to point
out a mode by which they might come at the per
ianal property of their states. But, he v.vsuld afic
them, if, independent of land with its improve
ments, they poffeffid any other species of properly
which could not be eluded ? He bclievtd they could
not point it out ; why then, call upon gentlemen
from tiie Southern States to do, what they, who
certjinly tnew best their own rcfources, were un
able to do.
Tie Gentlemen from the & uthern States, he
said, had <Lfcovered those .objects which *hey tho't
belt attic to bear the butlhen j and if the reprefenta -
tives of the other states weie not fatisfied with tfie
tax on iand, ; let them come forward and fay what
other propetty they have equally secure, upou which
a tax may be laid,
it was a phenomenon, he woald again fay, that
the Representatives of states where slaves existed
should be contending for a tax upon Oaves, and that
Members irora (kites where flayes were not tolera
ted, were oppofmg it. He could not help believ
ing that the real object of gentlemen had not ftfcen-i
avowed. It was lomething hidden and unieen.
Mr. Kittera said that the oppofers of this part
of the Refoituion, were the oppofers ef a direct
tax a'tegetlier. It w*s obferveable that those up
on whom the tax would fall did not complain, it
was extraordinary that the complaint should come
frum another quarter. As to the objeAion of his
colleague (Mr. Hartley) that part of the tax be
ing iaTtrtn slaves rn the Southern States, would af
fedt the value of land, he said it would make no
difference whether the tax was on land or flavet, as
it sfTrded land, itsoperation would be the fame,
it was. ttietcfoce no foliil ohj;ftion agaii.lt the iefo-
Uuion.
Ihe question was then ti-Xen by Yeas end Nays
and tarried .68 to 23.
i he Hsufethen went into a committee of the
whole on the bill for giving effeft to the laws of the
United States in the state us Teuncffee, Mc. .Coit
in the chair. ' " s
A coufiderable debate took place (which howev» '
er was r.ot of fafficient importance to be given in
detail) on the fubj.-A of the saLary of the Diftna i
Judge to| be appointed under the ad. The bill <
provides that he lhall he paid icod dollars a year. '
j Mr. Swift moved to amend the bill by striking out 1
iooo, to insert in its place Bqo. The motion was j
supported by. Messrs. Williams, Hei derfon, W. ]
Smith, W, Lyman and Kiitera.on the ground of I
< 800 dollars being fufficieut to afford a lia-.dfome 1
maintenance in that countiy ; that it was equal to 1
: the pay of anyjudge in the union, considering ihe <\
. duuejric «oult] have, and the ctieapnefs of livings J
that if compared to the fabrics allowed by that state t
toiisufficcis, it wjs'a high falaty, aj their ditttift 1
judges were allowed only 68 dollars a eircwit, a«d 1
! their governor only 650 dollars ; that if more was !
allowedJt wowld teed to make their officers diffat- c
■ lined with thc lr pay ; that to pay a larger sup.i ?
j would bring a charge of extravagance upon the r
(.government that the district judge of Vermont 1
j had only 800 ; and that if [©oo were given to the '
judge of Tennessee, it would not,only lead him to v
' expeft on augmentation of salary (which he had al- 1
reariy applied f o r) but every judge in the union 1
would expea to be advanced. This, it was said 1
waS a fenous confiderati.-n, since a judge's f a ]' <
j could not be.lowered, and to hold out the idea that v
they might be mcreaftd 01 application, would have ! c
the effeato make the judges in some decree de- t
pend on that House. The piefent want of 1
alto cautioned them aga-.nft extravagance. 1
On the other hand, Messrs. A. jackfon, Hoi [
land Blount, Macon, Buck, Thatcher, and & c
Smith were in favonr of the salary being 1 0 «o del- f
lars. in order .to induce men of abilities to accept '
of such office, tkey wished thrm to be libeValT"'paid • k
that no.judge .111 t-hc union had a less ium, «,ept' fl
the jugdeof Vermont, uhofe salary they hoped I
would be increased thai though most of the ne, e f. t
fane, of life were tolerably low, yet every article n
.imported was very high tn that cour.try, owing to b
their distance from the fca ; that he would have four P
times a year to travel through the wilderness, which
• B n> u S atteQdcd with dan K«» and which, if a
war should at any time take place with the Indians tj
: r d , ffi r ° f h,s ,fe: that the faiar '« 1
the state officers, ought to be no rule in this cafe, I
j since the state was poor and they had generally §
j been accepted fro® patriotic motives ; it was ad- h
u becn in habit of being fl
f f ,ded fc y the ,P»a'« 9f states, who were moftl®
1 too penurious in the pay of their officer,; the I
t Wn ofCang.eft, received doubled,
r members of any of the ftue lcgifl Jtu * pay / tl >»
I heard no complaint.on that ground ''
: The queftiou on the amendment wa, n .
earned 39 to 35. The' commute£ P« «n d
' had leave to lit agats. ro * c and
(sa3ctt^ci^oi tatcs
I Philadelphia Da
philadelphiaTf^^;
1 —r
The President of the United States is t« K
tre this evening at the The*.
Mr. Fenno's Correspondent may reft a ff„r.j . L
1 ragraph which appeared in t'6c i« on nf ,1 at tlle pi
fpedinga Mr. Buchanan, of Baltimore J , 'j® l ' **■
cum fiances, was not *tftranted bv the '" hrr cir.
faifts. The whole of the report orivHrafM r tC cf tll£
tmAien which the French toot in this cafe {.T"
. iivt American a»d a gentleman of the far,,' ' ser ' l «•
not a native American. * name
February the aid. being the anniverfarv „f t v ?■'
|of our worthy President, George Wifoin' c *" r A
j ber of gentlemen afiembledat Mr. Geo IV M* lU " n *
Jebrate the auspicious a, which gave a n ,,r toct "
father to their country—An elegant r terfai.r I " and
prepared for the occafiod, after which the fen"
tpafts were drank : B thc lowing
t. The day, and all who honor it.
a. George Wafhingtoij : Mav h- eni™ ;« v
meat that happfceft which he faeminentlymer"™*; •
when we /orget hioi.may 6«r friend, fj, t , J' 1 ' 4
3. John Adams, President eletf : Mar he L th
imitation of his lilnftrious predeceir.j. J;„ ',7
. ferve>e»« ie the rpflfidence and affect'lon"#^'
4. 1 homas Jeferion : May his cendufl in office be
a» irreproachable A - -.hat of his predeceii'or.
. 5 * i r a . l *>' ette V,a y h <-" soon he rtleafed from hi.
ignom.mous capuvuy, a.jd teftored to the emo-J 1
* f h«PP'«rf*"n the IM the Irberty « , v luh he sb .*£
neatly contributed to .jrftatyifh.
6-Jfcc »f'h/emted State, : May fc_
.* T t lf of prefcnrX"
violate from the hand' of .anarchy or defsotiT-n
«. Independence : May the m' M who *o,id barter
til'- independence of his eojn.try, W rewarded y/th A
litary confinement, is an oven fevtn times ht-ated '
9. May the crimes, crnel.net an* f >,, •• o ' f .
binifm, be a war»ing-<o fh- inhabitantsoi v ry CO un.
try, t«.ftra?gle.fhat Ye-vsraous mopflerinitsWth.
10. Pain to our .fhttm friends, Cicmfei£u, to oat
real 9«es; and Tons Paine to the devd.
11. Confufion wUo love any olher
country better than their owe.
I». May none of us ever have occasion to be alia
sned of our country, or our country of us.
1.1. Mtney and Wine to good |ie 3 rt«, and Antimom
ml Wine to traitors.
Latest
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
Ihe following intelligence is trarjlatsd from Leydtn
Gazettes to the IDecember, (liclufive —brought
by tht I'vnoMa, King, fr«m /imjl.erdum.
his latejl advices from London ere to the i6fb ; of
Jturfe the Continental intcUigfKti mi this Atif pit. '
I'jb, i* fie by fame days. The letter from
7 rent contains i: formation of them.nmeuts of Ihi
■dujhians fubfej-unt h the retreat of DavtJwid,
Nvv. 27.
iaEYiys.N, December 16.
LATEST FR.QM ITALy.
£&tra& of a Letter . from Treaty of the Movemtcr.
' It w.sLt nfcer having advanced, in con-sequence as the
file eels at Rivoli, and eitahJifhing bis *ct3 I'cir
Caflelnoyo, in the expe<slation of heipg able to effect with
out -lofb of time hi«.junction with general Alvjr.zy, that
Lieutenant Field arfhal Davidovich was informed that
the latter ( Alvinzy) after having-had the v.oifloT it at #e
end of a combat, ot -tliree-iuccdlive days, had judged it
eefiary to fall back toward* ivlontebello As, by this
rnovement> the paiTes witch leatf jfrom thc Vcrcnefe to Ti
rol, were Uid\op«c, a Freneh corps issued pn the 2lilof
this month from the ift the neig-lih our hoed of
Peri, threatening to turn the and.hold in check thc
forces of general Davidovich, which were then bcyonj
Campana. In .coufsqnerce, this genera] thcught fit to
make a retrograde afterilndieg off the ar
tillery and reserve of itorcs. he A h«- troops
irfmicJiaicly to retrept'. TAe battalions Dthrbach and
J-.atterman which proteAed Jtiic retreat, have fuffered a
good deal from the tire which the French kept up from
the heights. Xhe bridge which h?d been ellablilhed be*
lore D,olce was abandoned, and yeucrtiay morning the
Freijch f_t fire to it-^-but they have cpi remained in the pe
tition they were taking. Before .daylight yesterday they
quitted all \ heir position«, as well at Peri ?s at Offenig*
?nd St Andre, and alio thol'c of. FofTo, St Anne, jßrco?
nio, &c Tke troops which had iccupi«*d them fell
on the /ide towards Verqna. Thisfudden reureat is atcri -
bute«i to a ney movement that general Alvjnzy (inf«rmc«
of the advantage •htaitied by the forces und r Davidovich)
has again ia advance with his arMiy—a inovemimt
| which put the enewy's corps in danger of being cut off.
j I*. is moreover at present believed to b« ascertained that tne
French troops which had advanced byjthe mountains on
on the fide of Peri, to take our forces in flafrk do not ex
ceed three thousand men. Thus the retreat of general Da
-"vidovic:h, by prudence, hasgiyeu rife to other
difpolitions which announce the march of out forces ag-m
towards The Commander, after having reunite j
his,forccs in the .environs of Ala, has puihed forward it
veralbattalions and squadrons, have driven the e
nemy's detacl.mencsaom the points where they liiJJnude
tfteir appearance. Hs detached at the fame time a corps
of one thoufund men, copapofcd in part.of riliemen, to
post themfelvcs above Valk Fiedda, in prd r to cut off
tie French, and to put them if paf&blp between two fires.
Since yesterday general Davidovich wa* to begin his march
with th- r«jgahioer of his force. Indsed we hear this m
ftantthat he has removed his head-quarters from Ala to
P«V, and that our troojrs pufli forwards on all fides against
thc French posted behind Rivoli. It is believed that to
morrow they will be attacked, an undertaking which may
be exp t e«9e«i tp fuccced, pro vided general Alvmzy on hi»
part fhou)4 advance towards Verona.
Rxtra<ft of a Letter from Vicepza, of Nov. 14.
The successes obtained in this dreadful war on our ren
tier, have proved but momentary. General Daviiowic ,
a vidor in th; affair ef Rivoii, the 17th of the month,is
obliged quickly to retreat * ith thelofs of part oi his rear
guard. The news is received here that in a
this conilid, which took placeon zm 2 . f
he was obliged to fall back- on the fide of Ala* en 1 -
frontiers of Tyrol . r t v_
Neyerthelefs, general Alvinzy, being mforpicd o
victory of Rivoli, advanced towards tie p. >
cecded near to CaidA.c/o, when he heard of taf w™* 9.*
literal Daviiovich. TV" he in turn fell back to L
, hb way as far in the rear as Baffano, in order to f«ure
, baggage and to concert fre(h operation. Inthealter
itive of these fruitlefs efforts to j»»Aionof t h=
• to Imperial armies, it is nooertaiu what will be the fi«a
rent m rei'ped to Mantua, the blockade of which was
■rem aturely ftatei to be raifei, and where Marihal Wurm- tc
i>r. appears to be in want of fufficie t force to -
equally with the armies which came te relieve him.
—^— CJ
Letter from general Buonaparte to general Clark. t<
VERONA, November 19. \
Your Nephew Elliot was slain in the field of battle at
Arcole This young man had become well acquainted with
,rms : he often marched at the head oi the columns : c V
rould have been hereafter a valuable officer He died with g
glory, facing the enemy, and did not fufFer one instant. {]
Who would nwt envy such a death? Who is there t at
zontemplating th - cha .ges of life, w jiot -b
privilege of quitting: thi« c , . t 0
zicr » _u£4rg'among us has not an hundred t'mes fomented
that he had not thus got out of the reach of calumny, of e
envy, and of all the hateful passions which seem alnjolt a
cxduiively to dire<st the conduit of mankind ? e
r
From PA JUTS j 9th Dsfc.
One of the mod important difcuflUns which has of late
engaged the Legislative Body, is undoubtedly that relating
to the law of the 3d of Brumaire, nv which the relations
of immigrants are excluded from all ptit-licfuhAions what
soever. There are two opinions dire<sfcly oppolite : one J
for the ftriit and unqualified adherence to that law, a»in~ t
difpenfaftly necessary to the preservation of a republican j
lorm—the other for its entire abrogation, as being contra-
ry to the constitution and to the rights; of citizens : tbe
Council of Five Hundred has adopted the njcdiunj be
tween the two opinions.
ROME, Nov. 19, 1
Our fate is not yet decided; %and, To far as res t
pedis the Holy See, war appears more probable thai:
peace. Citizen Caeault having been appointed by |
the dire&ory at Paris, mmifter plenipotentiary in j
open new ncgociations of peact ;he wilhed topic ,
sent himfelf in this chara&er to tke pope, whp f°pt
him to the Cardinal JS ufca, secretary of ffcattf.
He attended him for this purpose, but the con
ference w»» f« fti"". 'ln at '' r ledto
■the preliminary overtures were tTOfconformable to
his views ; fwee then all attempts ha»e been fuf
pended. Mean time opr coart continues with ac
tivi;y its preparations for war. A body of 6,000
infantry, j, COO cavalry. I,OP® artillei}'. ItfiU
t)c ready by tb« fjrft of next month,
BASLE,"'Dectmber I.
For three day» past the Auftrians have cannona
ded with great vivacity from their bakeries on the
left of tViellle of the Rhine, and the French bridge
ef boat 6. The 28th Nov. at 4 o'clock P. M. the
bridge was separated by a well dire&ed Itiot, in
filch manner, that the French who occupied the
Klc found 'heir communication with the Fortress
of Huuingue cut off. This excited
the attention o f our magillra es—they judged pro
per to Heat the alaim : all the inhabitants took
trms, and the troops were lent to occupy the fron
tieis, These difpofitfons have nui however, piodu
ced any change to this moment ; and more happy
than the Venetians, Genu/;, or other neutrals wHo
ft£n their territory fuccrflively invaded or ra
vagrd, we arc not less expqfed io-a continual i««iiii-
i
Yeflerday zt II o'clock at night the Auftrians
an attack on the head of the bridge of flu
tungue and IJle du Rbin. The aft ion lasted till 3
o'clock in the morning with the gieateft obstinacy.
The Imperial troops attempted with the gieateft
Luvery to tlorm the intrenchmentj three fcvexal
times, but obftaclei innumerable rendered all their
efforts intfleilHal. Col. Ctjtler was killed at ill-'
commencement of the aehun. It i» expeftcd a new
attack will bff m.le this iiijjht. The French con
tinue to hold the Isle, from which they keep up a
fcrifk fire on the Austrian batteries. They coin-
Bjmiicate by aUytng bridg£ yvith Huningue.
E>ttra3 from the National Gazette of France.
BASLE, November 30.
The Auftrians having damaged the bridge as
Hunipglie £o as to render it impafiable, great hopes
wrre entertained by the prince of Furllemberg—
He summoned gen. Abatucei to deliver up in the
Ipace of a quarter of an hoyr, the head of the
btidge, all the intrenchments, all the batteries, and
all the cannon, which were 011 the riglu or ike!
Rhjrnp==trcrc"trTtTe aritwer was given.
" Whatever may be the idea you have formed
of tile critical pjofttion in which you suppose 1 find j
mylclf, 1 have the honor to affnre you that T am
ready st any instant te convince you of your error. I
" This alfa will inform you, that I am as little 1
difpufed to accept the ftameful capitulation you
Ijaie \ ropufed."
» " country of Baden continues t« be ill-treat
ed by the Auftrians, the house of the Baron de
Rrizenltein, hat been plundered and destroyed by
them—this is the fame Baron de Reizenfteia, who
concluded a peace for his prince, anj is iiill at Pa
rh."
Pecember 1.
Yesterday at .5 o'clock a second Austrian flag of
■truce, proposed " the funenderof the fort of Hll
- or at traft its evacuation, on a promise that
it (hould be rellored at the opening of the oam
paigiij in the fame state in whiah it was fijrrehder
ed." Gcji. Abatucci aufweied, " That to obtain
the fort, it was necessary to take it"—when the 3ag
had returned with this answer, the artillery of both '
> armies commenced a moll terrible fire, which is still
heard. " - M ■
At } in the evening they assaulted the firft
fort, which is leparated from the oth«r by an arm
of the Rhine. All the French garrison immedi
ately retired into the rear fort. The artillery then
ceased to play on both fides, and in it* place a fire
of mufqnetry wa6 sustained which continued an
hour after mrdnight—never was there a mare mur
derous canflift— those of the Auftrians who were
net driven from the fort, perished there.
The Auftrians loft ten times more than the
French. The dead exceed two th«ufand. Aba
tucci received four wounds j two with a labre, one
bullet, and a ftroks with a cannon ball in his/htiul
dcr.
At this instant, the cannon are again heard. A
courier cited! from Vienna pafled thu yeflerday.he
u bound to P,arj».
Letter from general Buonaparte to the Ex-cutive
Directory—Vero'ia s 4th Frimaire No- H
vcmbcr.}.
« I have informed you, citizen direftors, by mv :<
last letter, that general Vaubois had been obliged
. to abandon the pott of Rivoli, and that the-enemy tl
had already arrived at Caftel-N'jvo.
I improved the route of the enemy at Arcole, by *
cauting the ditifion ef general Maffena immediately 1
torepafsthe who etf e a*d a junaion, at t
Villa-Fianca, with general Vaubois, and united, t
C they marche 1 to Cattel-N««, the ill Frimaire t
(November 21) whilil the division of genera An- fc
i gereau ascended the heights of St. Anne, to cut
■ The valley as Adige to Dolce, and b<V this means y
1 to cut off ih; retreat of the enemy. General J hi- v k
e -bert, eomm .:id l fh(»"rtie advanced «uard of the divii:- t
I ous of Maffena, and Vaubois united, attacked tlie t
if enemy upon the heights of t : after a flight >, i
acli j n, we overtook and lurrounded a crps of the j l
enemy's rear and ffiade 1200 prifoueis. a- . 1
mong yhiA is the colonel of the re|»im«"t d'Er- j '
bach. A hody of 3or 400 men atten.p ing to 1 »
e save tbemfelves were drowned in the i\di;jfl. \'Jc !
" did not content ourfelvcs with letaking Rivoli and t
. Curona i we purlued the enemy to Pieabano. -j 1
ie A D g? reau had engaged a body o» 1
the enemy in the heights of St. Anne, and difperfsd ■ '
n it hf made 3»o prisoners, was arrived at Dolce, i
burnt two equipages ol pontoon* on Laqusta, and <
.. took some I
General Wurnwr. nude a sally from Mantua ycf
terday at 7 «Vlaek A. M The cannonade latted 1 ]
the day. General Kilmainc made him re-i '
r turn usual, with greater Ipced than he cams out, j 1
II MgSi thelofs o£ 200 prifuuera, an )iowirz-'r and two , 1
y pieces of cannon. Wurrnfer commanded this fa'ly j
4. inpeifon. «' This iithe ihird time (senoial Ki!-
c Kiaine writes me) that \Vurmfer has attempted a
?? fwtie, and always with as little'fuccefs." Wurmfcr -
is fuccefiful ojly in the J lumals which the ensmies
•- of the republic fabricate at l J <rris.
is_ a " BUONAPARTE."
0 General Buonaparte to citoyenne Muiron.
f « Muiron died at my fide immediately, at the
= " banle of Arcole. You hive loft a husband who
10 was {teat ; 1 loft a friend to who 1?) I had lung
ill been attached : But the (jou.itry has loft molt lliaii
we, by losing an nfficei, equally distinguished by
his talents, as by his lingular courage. If I can
render any feryice ti» you, or-your children, I rc
a ~ quell you to itpofe entireconti lence in me.
Ie « BUONAPARfL."
;e LEYDEN, December 15.
Ie Letters from Hamburgh of the Jth instant state,
i° that the mail from Peterfourgh ot the i£th Nov.
hud not arrived Dec. 1, tho' two days after anex
'fs prefa from Riga had hroughf the new. that the
Emprefsof Russia died on 17th Novembers but,
that since then they had received no ulterior advices,
'k either by courier, or exptefs; th-at the letters from
1- Koniegfberg and Beiliii announce that il is true,
u - that after the arrival of anexprtfs, this report was
>y generally circu!a:ed. This event is confide'ied at
Berlin as unfavyrabl* ,to the interell gf England.
a " The new Emptier of Rtiffia has t *sL
'i- |iirn?. ■ '•£*■'<<»H-tetrwr-rtrtt"i dti on of nations,
which will maks bim the friend of peat-e and tra;.
ns quility, both oi his own fubj.iits aiid of other 11 a
tions. *
3 After the account of th« death of the E-mprefs
y- had been announced by the Comfiiitlioii of Foreign
"ft Affairs, in the fitting of the National Baravian Af
-a! frrnbly of the 131b December, it was»ddcd " That
prince Repnin, "who was with his Puliih majesty
hi at Grodno, was reealled ; and that ,the new Em
'w perot had ordered a l'ervi<y, not only for the death
m- ot the Empress, his mother, but also for the de
1 a ceased Etr.piror, his father.
In the fapse Qttiag the marine committee, com
municated a Leter from England, relating to the
ledu&ion of the Squadron under Admiral Lucas ;
of the following t.en»r.
Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.
Fellow Citizens,
>e» «< Igm ordered by Vice Admiral Lucas, to an
— nounce the difagreeablc intelligence of the capture
lie of the First uudrr his orders, on its passage to the
he Cape of Good Hope the 16th lall. After
nd having anchored on the 6th of said month in the
tie LUy ot Saldanha, and begieninjj to water, an Eng
lifli army presented itfelfoß the coast of 4or 5000
ie(i tr.sn, on whom the frigate Bclhne made a continu
al fire from 11 in the morning till 4 in the nfter-
J m noon ; when thsre anchored in the opening of the
or - ! B»y a Squadron of 8 fail of the line, 6 frigates and
l ' 4 smaller veffels—asfoon as our sailors law that they
ou were English, th.'T put the wrange cockagejn their
Ha's, ctied 0. ange au dejfus ! and threatened to
st- ; the OSicsfs, forced the Hatches, pillag
rfc .ed the Wine and Spirits; and made themfcives
by mailers of all that they saw proper to take the.y
ho all got drunk, a very small number excepted. Ill
s' stead of remaining a-t their quarters, they., were all
abandoned, and wonld no longer obey the com
mands of their officers: In consequence of which,
of the Vice Admiral has been qbliged to capitulate)
*, which he did the lsth, and we surrendered our
iat selves. The 20th I failed in the English Frigate
m " IfMof die, and arrived here the ?d. of this mouth
er- with dispatches to your Address.
I have already wiitten twice to the Admiralty
ag in London, but have not .received an answer per
>th mitting -me to depart. Al my arrival 1 hope to
till Rive you a report in detail.
Health and Fraternity.
r " (Signed)
®" to W • V erhrgen Mil man, Lieut. Marine.
Qi- Portfiuouth, Nov. 26.
•-n Extract from the official Bulletin from the Head
lre Quarters of the Archduke,
an OFFFMBOURG, November 22.
»- This morning at 6 o'clock the French made
?re a sally from their entrenchsd camp near Kehl, and
attacked with the greatest jrapetuofity the village
he «f Sundheim, which t-hey carried. They also for
ia- ced some of the Austrian intrenchments. The.re
ne lerves rallied promptly to the paints which had
■ bcen they attacked with their nfual aidor,
and compelled the French to retreat to their in
n-enchments. The engagement was extremely
he brisk, efpeciallv at the re the village of Sund
heira.
Gener.il Mortau commanded thin the ob- ce
ject of which was t» destroy the work* ancf th? ■«
line* of c'jjit*evaHa;ioa, and mslie themfciees mas
tersof the park of artillery. -- v
Tliey proniifed themselves thereby to compel vi
the Aaftria.u to detift from thtis ulteiior projsfts on hi
Kehl, and to procure to the French army, tranquil
winter quarters. The confidence which Milted in
the advanced polls for a long lime was favourable ar
to the French enterprize. They a ten- th
ttnel the u.il -»|fy man swiftomed to fee them at th
the advanced ports, fuffered himfelf to be amuled hi
by their wards of confidence. He w«s poignarded tn
before he had time to leave hi« post, whipii was fur-
prized ; they entered one redoubt which they tu. k
by this inei ti, from thence they turned" the left of
the Austrian enrreuchrrient#. Notwithllanding
this advantage, they found tu moll ob inate re- g
itftancC at feveial of the point*. O e redoubt oecu
pied by 65 men of the regiment of Stzaray, after
having cut to pieces the greatett part of the column
which attacked it, was not taken, but by the death
of all theft Vave Hungarian!. The arshduke ar- Si
rived from Offer,baurg during the affair, and con
tributed not a little by bis prefcitce, by the eilthu- B
(iafm, and contidence which liis.prefence inspires in
the troops, to repulse the enemy. The Major
Gir.eral, Prince Frederick of Orange, whs com
mands the center »f the pofitio a before J£ehi, con
duced hirnfelf on this oceafion in the ipwlt diftm
guilbed manner. C
He arrived at tWe momrnt when the coip» fur- 5
prized had been compelled to abandon one part of
j tlrrftrve-.-. He marched darinffty at the head or a -
i company of regiment of Si^3"ay. The bold
! ness of (his troop arretted the assailants. During
; these tranfa&ions the reserves arrived, and the p
nemy was repulsed with considerable left- T his is
generally eltimated fiom 2to 3000 men. They
carried ayvay 4 pieces of eannon from the Anltnans
and spiked fume others. The archduke, who ia 01
aftion i§ alw. ys wh'.'rSTTieit is moll danger, had in
this affair, | or 6 perfoßS or hoifes killed and wound-
ed among a fniali l'uite, which he had with him.
The adjutant of gen. Latour who *ai of this num
ber was killed by a cannon ball. The Auftrians ~
the night following contra&ed the limits of the
French by a parellcl, which extend# to the Chauf
fee ®f Neufmnhl, and that of Raftadt. The works j
which are not more than 1200 paces from the fort
of Kehl, have not been in thelraft irvterrupted by
the sortie of the French, and the Auftrians are la
boring to compleat them.
ARMY of the RHINE and MOSELLE. 6
The General in Chief to the Executive Dire&oty. -
Head Quarters a; Schiliken, 13 Frimaire,
December 3.
Citizens Directors,
111 the.night of the loth and 1 tth of this month
(29th Nov. to ift Dec.) the enemy auempted to
carry by affaull the tete-dupont of Huninguen.
About 11 o'clock, at night, three columns advan ■
eed upon the front and thefalient of the half-moon,
precipitated themselves upon it, forced the gates,
and efcaladid the work which our trajps were obli-
ta. to"*" 1 u ! f "I to a horn work
wti cii tfic enemv forthwith attempted. The gen
eral Abaiucci, whj defended the yate of this work
rendcted their effjits abonivc ; anil perceiving that
the foe which h« lpade from the burn work (jpon
the hall moon was not fufficient to drive the enemy
then ce, whs attempted on the contrary to elta
hl.' 1 hitrifelf there, that biave general deteimined
upon a sortie in order to expel thera thence ; which
was executed with ¥ courage above all eulogy.—
Qvn brave faldiers charged the enemy with an intre- I
pidiiy of which there aie few examples, and at length
succeeded in dislodging then) from all the works, ,
which they left covered with the dead. The pur- -
suit would ha ve been (till more murderous, had it <
not been for the wound'received by the general *Ab- '
atucci: it is lcverc ; but hopes are entertained j
that it will not be dangerous. The chief of bri- ]
gade Vigne hal likewise been wounded in this'bloody :
affair. We have made one hundred prisoners of the
enemy ; but their loss in killed ar.d wounded a
miiurtt to 18 or 2009 men. His right column has
■ violated the Svvifs territory. Our atpbaffador has
made his reraonllrances on this fuhjeft. The ge
■ neral Ferino, who give* the account of these e
vents, paffc# the highest .eulogiums on the bravery
> of the tr«iops. The gd of light infantry, the 89th
. and the 56th d.emi-brigade of.the line were char
. gfd with the defenfe of the tete-du pont of Hu
: uingnen, and relieved one another alternately.—
1 These three cerps have in a particular manner dif
' tinguifhed themselves during the whole course of
r the campaign. The chief of brigade Caffagrje, the
) chief of brigade Morel, the captain Foit, of the
■ light artillery, and his company, (who, «ot being
i able to site their pieces, discharged their howitzers
and rolled them into the ditches filled with enemies}
the chief of battalion du Poltevin, the ad
i jutant Sorbier and aid-de-camp are par
- ticuiarly diftingu,(bed. Many other officers have
, also given great proofs6f bravery. I (hall let you
, know ot them, when the particulars are commun.i
. cated to me.
Health and Refpe£l,
(Signed) MOREAU.
Extraft of a Letter from the Austrian Head-Quar
' ters, dated Nov. 28 to Dec.
" Since the affair of the 22d. of this month all
> was tranquil to the j6th, on the fide of the Kehl,
but in the night of 26th to 27th, the French mad«
a new lortie in considerable fores against the firft
parellel from the attack on the right of the River,
to Kinzig. Notwiti'ftanding ajl their efforts, they
were not able to penetrate it, and were readily re
-1 pulsed by our troops : They left on the place te
the number of fifty, killed and wounded—Among
the former they found a commander of a Battalion
—The number of carried off is probably
I confidetable.—Th e Batterie? of the firit and second
■ pai ellel's, as well as the Artillery placed in all the
the right ?nd left, commenced this
morning, the advanee posts of the enemy have been
driven from the village of Kehl.
, Dec. 5. The fire of the iinpctialifta has already
destroyed the bridge of Kehl—they have thereby
rendeiei themselves matters of several important
works. The 3d, and 4th, of this month, the can
n#tiade has b;#n more biiffc than for several pre-
credit day*—The Autrianspulfcthetr dperatlqns
.with no less vigour before Huningue.
. FRANKFORT, Dec. 2- (in the moriyg.J
General Defaix h»« repulfsd the enemy from the
village of Kehl, has already begun l« eotreucl)
himMWlfre.
JIEYQEN, December >4"
Private advices from Manheim ofthe 6-h nilt. (
announce, that according U * report .eceiveJ there
that day, the third parc-liel had been opened f
the Auftrianj before Kebl, an.l that gen. IM"4
had been repulsed in s furtu which he had tPKde a?
the head of iix thoaf >nii men.
7 PORT QF PHILADELPHIA,
ARRIVEU.
Brig Diamond, Steinmetz, Cape-Francois 3 J days
Experiment, J)olby, New-York 3
Nancy, Tate, St. Bartholomew# 23
Amiable, Matiiaa, Rotterdam, via ffc Yolk 4
CLEARED
Ship Old Tom, Heron, Londonderry
South Carolina, Gaiman, Chailefton
Brig Eagle, Rv»ndle, 1 Leogai <3
Sally, Venn, Trinidad
Amiable Creole, Stoy, Mole & Port-au Prince
Experiment, Hefs, St. Domingo
Twiu», Kepler, H»vant>ah
The Ship Pigou, Dale, from Philadelphia t«
Canton, was spoke on 7th July, in the straits of
Sunda, 8j days out, all well.
A (hip and two schooners are below,
POSITIVELY
tut LAST NIG NT xr the
Pantheon & Ricketts' Amphitheatre,
On Tussdat, February 28, 1797.
MR. RICKETTS takes the liberty of announcing to hi#
triads, as hi* new Amphitheatre in New-York open*
l on the Bth of March, that to-morrow evening will be the
j last night at the Pantheon ; in coniiequ nee of which he has
feledcd the most approved pcrfoirviauces of th? fcafon, anq.
likewise added lome new feata of aftivity for the firft time in
Aattrica.
M». Ricketts will himfelf exhibit many featj of a&ivicy
. —riti particular
THE BRO D SWORD,
ftiewing the diffeent guards offcNfive and defenfive.
He will throw %
• A Summer fit ever 20 Soldiers *w'ilb their guns end
' bayonnrts fixed.
Also, over seven Horses with Riders on them-
Tfre particulars of the Pcrniorances will beexprelTed inthf
Bills of the day.—hpy, ore dollar —Pit, half a dollar.
Doors to open at 5, and Performance* to commence 1-4 pajl
6 o'clock. February 27,
• " ' T ? t —*T
Just Arrived,
In Brig Nancy, Robert I'ate, Matter,
, A Cargo of SUG4R & COFFEE,
FOR SALE BY,
P. COPPINGER,
No. til, South Iront-Street.
WHO MAS ALSO ON HAND {
• Malaba Pepper in Calks,
, 13,000 wt. Surat Cotton,
4,990 lb Hie of iTartc li.Dkco.
t February 17. I of.
k New Theatre.
1 . .
>. BY PARTICULAR DESIRE.
y THIS EVENING, February 27,
l- XX7I LI be presented, (foi the 4th time) a celebrated
j V V NEW COMEDY, (written by the author of
bus, The Children in the Wood, &c.) called
- The VVay to get Married.
[As performed at Covent-Garden Theatre 39 nights, withouf
h - inteitnifljon, the firft season j and fincc, upwards of iso
nights with unbounded applaufc. ]
' Tangent, Mr. Moreton Ned, , Mr. Bliffett
Toby Alfpice, Mi.Harwood Postillion, Mr.T. Warrcll
It Cap .Faulkner, Mr. Cooper Undertaker, Mr M'Donald
j. CauUic v Mr. Warren Jailor, Mr. Mitchell
, Dick Dafcall, Mr. Wignell Sol citor, Mr. Morgan
M'Queery, Mr. Prigmorc Mr. Warn 11
1- Lamlloid, Mr. Darley William, Rijr. J. Daile*
y Shopman, Mr. J. Warrell
Julia.Faulkner, Mrs. Merry
Clementina Alfpice, Mrs. Francis
l " Lady Sorrel, Mrs. L'Eftrarige'
18 Fanny, • Mrs. Doftor. *
ls End of the comedy, a new Pantomime Baflet
(Composed by Mr. Byrne) called
Dermot & Kathleen.
y To which will be added, a Farce, called
h Animal Magnetism.
CoHege-HalL~
f. Readings and Recitations,
jf Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Ie On TUESDAY EKENING, February zS t
1C At 7 o'clock, will be delivered,
p- , first part
°AP O E M
'* Op the PrcjGdent's Farewell Address, with a (ketch ps tij
'/ cbarafler of his Successor. " 1
i- iKCoNO PART
r- The Fire-Side, ./Cotton,
•e Of t0 y^' h - Mason.
Ode to >dverfity, Gray.
>u Ode to Fear, ♦ Collins.
ii- THIftUPARf
Clarence's Dream, Shakefpeaje.
King Lear, Scene, Shakespeare.
Cardinal Wolfey and Cromwell, Shakespeare
Tickets tobe had of Mr. Poulfon, jun.at the Library
r. at w. M'Elwee's looking-glass-store, No. 70, S. Fourth
?, r£ , e , t ; at Mr " Carey's, Bookseller, Market-ftrset—
jjj Half a dollar each.
Mas. G rattan
Refpe&fully informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the
'« City, that the sth
r. LADIES' CONCERT
y It ill be on TUESDAY, the 2%th day of February u
at the AJ/emb/y-Room.
l ® -Act I.
>g Oyerture, p k .
in Scotch Song, by particular desire
ly Coucertante, priucipal Me(T. Gijlin^ham
id , a "d Menel, Viotto
be Vhy d. the nations sleep, Mr. Hill, Hat>del
iia CT II -
Overtur., (with the favorite Andante) Havdn
O ! lovely Peace, Duet by Mrs. Grattan
and Mr. Hill, Handel
)y Sonnata, by particular desire, Clc,nicnti
Ah! aonfai, Mrs. Grattan, Sacchin."
J. T fleets to be had at Ba/.
n- k r+\ T "t Co " cert t0 b =gia at half pa st fi x , and at
half pall eigh t, the music will atead for the Bail
e- February ij
itLe Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST, »
Fuyll of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentill to the £
King and Royal Family of France, member of the g r |
C"liege and Academy of Surgeons at Paris, y,-c
Ilecps a complete aflortment of eveiy thing neceflary
to be used forthe ofi
Prcfervation of the Moutli and Teeth. «■
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human k Ivory Teeth ; ~
Pentrißce ia powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
f-i'Crtening the mouth and preserving the teeth —he
.ill. furnifhes Bruihes and foft Sponges.
He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abe»e
Poi t'; (Ireet. va
I. - /ember *6. < tt» I 1
Canal Lottery, No. 11. r«
'Scheme of a Lettery, authorized by an ail entitled 0 .
"An ail to enable the President and Managers of the p ;
tkhuylkill and gufquehannah navigation, jt-o raise, by ; 0
way-os Lottery, the. sum of Four Hundred Thousand
Dollars, for the purpose of completing the works, in ac
their ads of incorporation mentioned."
Dollars £
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars, 20,000 "
I of ten thousand dollars, 10,000 m
j of four thousand dollars each, to c j.
be paid to the pofleflors of the five
numbers firft out of the whee{ on the lift A
day's drawing, at which time there (hall M
not be lei's than 500 numbers undrawfc, 10,000 d<
13 of two thousand dollars each, 30,000
10 of one thousand dollars each, 20,000
43 of five hundred dollars each, 11,500
xoooftwo hundred dollars each, 20,000
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
i'io of fifty dollars each, 11,000
ig,Soo of five dollars each, 147,500 , r
S v
30,000 Tickats at ten dollars each. 300,000 e<
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at P 1
the time
All prizes shall be paid ten days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand oi the pofieffor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeil to a deduction of fifteen per cent. Q
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12 months
after the Drawing is finifhed, of which public notice ft
will be given, shall be conlidercd as relinquilhed for
.the use of the Canal an 4 applied accordingly.
At a mesting of the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Siifquehanna Canal Navigation—and
the President and Managers of the Delaware and "
Schuylkill Canal,
Refolved,'That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan
dilh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee S
to arrange and direct the mode of disposing of the
tickets; which committee (hall dppofit the money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o- F
pened for the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16,'97,
Resolved, That the committee for conducing the
Lottery be directed to commence the jdrawing on the
firft day of March nejtt.
1 Extradl froift the minutes,
Win. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball, "]
'John Stfinmetz,
Standifb Forde, |
Francis IVeft t ]> Managers.
James M'Crea,
Jolau Mill*-, jun. I
iViliiam Montgomery, J
Jan. to. th&Hrf
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy Izf Infirmary. +
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his finccrc thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence in this City, and
flatters himfeif that the success of his efFoits, in the numerous, t
obstinate and dangerous difegfes in Horses, in which he has Q
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, Will fe
ure their future favors and recommendation. t
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, erefted fo.r the
purposes above described are open for the reception of pupils J
of either lex, who wish to bein(tru£ted in the Art of Riding,
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expedititfufiy broke, for every purpose, and ?
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers I!
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling a
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal 1
all those beauties of aftion which piovidence has so bounti
fully beflowed on them. d
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is I
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by longv .d repeated experience.
The utility of the above inUituiion has never been qneftion- j
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
fiud willmanifeft, and T. Swanm as the firft eftahlifher of
the vetereriary art, foUcits and relies upon the support of that
public (which he is ever artxious in ferviqg) to enable him to
Diingit to perfe&ion. The idea of a fubfciiption for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish to r
promote the inflitution— the amount of each fubfeription to a
be returned by fcrvices in v any of the dep.mraentsi.heprofeffes, x
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such
fubfeription is now open, and the signatures of many refpe£l- c
able jientlemcn already obtained. He therefore injornu his ,
friends'aid iuch Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he (hall in a few day* take
the liberty of waiting upon thsm and folicking their support *
and protc&iop.
N . B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladieaaod
'Oentlcmenwho wish to be inftru^led.
Nov. 5. t'.h&f. 1
Will be Sold, by Public Vend lie, '
On the <)th of March next,
A PL ANTATION,
TN Ridley towr.fbip, Delaware county, (late of Penn- :
fylvanii, elex T en miles from Philadelphia, and one from '
the great road leading thence to Chester ; containing one |
hundred and twenty-three acres, of which
are woodland, aij'd eighteen .meadow. On the premises
there are, a dwelling-house, barn, and other out-lioufes,
-in good repair ; a good fpringof water close to the ho use,
and a fine ilream of water runs through the premises ;by !
which pa*t of the meadow is watered, 3cc.
AL.S 0, , ;
On the fame day, the ftpek on the said farm ; confifl- ;
;ng of horses, cows, sheep, hogs, Bcc. A cart, plough,
Harrow, and other farming utenlils; al£b a large copper
Aifl, the household and furniture,
which are beds and bedding, an eight day clock, and tiu
ny other articles too tedious to mention. 1
Tfae sale to begin at t*n o'clock in the forenoon, where ,
th? conditions wiil be made and Uttcndance given
on the premises, by CUJITIS LEWIS.
Ridley, February 13 14 —tthf tM9
Particular TenerifFe Wine.
50 Quarter-Calks Particular 1 eneriffe WINE,
Of a fupcrior Quality,
Fcrfaleby A. MARPLE aC IS. JT MORRIS,
Mo. 60 Dcck-ftrect. 1
•Voruary t wX&mijt
Wants a Place,
AS WAITER in a gentleman's Houie, a young man j
who has lived for a cor.fidirabl- rime in fame of the *
firft houfss in th.' u y, and whose chara&tr is sure; or fl
V/ould engage wica a finale gentleman to attend on h im * 11
Directions left at the New York and Baltimore ftage
office. No. io, south 4tk, near Market flteet, for R. H.
will be attended to. February r+ H3 v
PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of fruftees o! 1
Washington Academy, in Somcrfet County, arid c
State of Maryland,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GTV.SN, c
That the office of Principal Teacher iil the said fchoql is (
; vacant. , i
A GENTLEMAN qualified to teach the higher Greek and j
Latin Claff.cs, Ceography, and the Mathematics, with (
fucb other branches of literature as are usually taught in luch .
schools, would meet with liberal eneourigernent, and, it is, .
believed, would obtain a very eligible fettlemeot. For the {
prefe.it, tbe Trufiees wqu'il be willing to contract with a per
lon capable of taking charge of a Grammar S hool. •
A-sihis Institution is provided with buildings fumctcnt to
accommodate the principal and his family, and frena seventy (
t© eighty boys [ a library, an excellent philgfophtcdl and ma- i
thematical apparatus, globes, maps, &c; has rcfpeaablc i
funds, and is fitaated in a plentiful and agretabl© part of the <
country » nothing seems wanting tc make lr rank among; the \
mofl ufeful seminaries in this part of the Union, but a luitable t
chara&er to prefidc in it.
Proposals may be addrefled to the fubferiber, in Princess-
Anne, in the neighbothaod of the Academy, or to j
Martin L Haynie, No. 8.3, north Third-llreet, Phila
delphia, or to the Printer herepf.
EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
January 10. Feb. 7. tu&fßw
Davis's Law Book-store
Mp. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profefllonal^Jdcnds,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, ~~lbrou£h the <
Union, that his of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a jfingle volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forfeveral years pa& have iu io diftinguiuied a
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the n>oft, extcukye
tion cf the latest and Iriib Editions ever imported
into this country, are p*b!ilhcd, and will be delivered gratis
on application .j..
Orders to G. D. in writing from any diftsnce
fhalj be punftually attended to.
A number of T RUNKS for Sale,
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient. near Market Stieet Wharf.
ov.B. t\iScfsw
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Stilth Second-street.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thouland Dollars, agreeably to an Aft o>'
the Legiilaturt of Pennfylvaaia, passed during the lall
fetiion, for building a Stone Bridge over the Rive;
Schuylkill, ac the Borough of Reading, 1* the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars - so,ooo
1 do. of ie,ooo do. .. » so,ooo
3 do. of 5,000 do. - - - 15,000
4 do. cf 2,000 do. » - 8,000
20 do. of »,000 do. - - 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. r . 19,500
80 do. of 200 do. ... i6,occ
too do. of 100 do. ... 20,000
300 do. of 50 do. - . 15,000
1 do, ,of 500 do. to be paid the polfef-)
— ' for f the firft drawn no.J ®
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid poiicncrv; - ~" -
of the five US drawn 01-1$
9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
10,054 Prizes 300,000
19,946 Blanks —. —l
30,000, Tickets at Ten Dollara 300,000
All Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
fiuifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as the Tickets are difpofrd
of, or perhaps sooner* of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witmun,
Joseph Hiejler, fames Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
Jar.May, John Otto, John K:im, Daniel Qraeff,
Sebajlian Miller, Commission t»c.
Reading, May the 9th, i7gS.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at ti>e ,
above office, where the earliiifl iniermation of the draw
ing of the Washington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and check books far examination and regif
teringare kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery ts be had at Mr, Shcri- '
dan's Race-street, John Hay, North Third-ftrect and
Henry Sweyer's, German Town. '
January 16 -jawtf
Lantq/ier, Harrijburgh, Carlifie s Sbipr \
penfburg and Sunbury '
STAGES,
The public are requested to take notice, that the part- >
nertliip which has far sometime fabfiiltd bctweoß Mathi- '
as Slsugh-ofLancafter, and William Geer, is now diffsl- '
1 veil. bat, not as M. Slough insinuates .tp the public
without jn(l cause ; as will more fully appear by a letter
on the fubjedl from M. Slough t® W. deer, dated the 1
29th December last. a recital of which -is Hot now deemed I
neqefiary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be more cir
cumllantially informed of the merits of this business, by
applying to W, Geer may have the perlifal of M. Slouch's
lcttter, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe- i
ther or not W. Geer is notpetfeaiy jctflifiabte in attach
ing himfelf to any other person in the profecation of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenfburg,
or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public
were pleased to confer on the fii'ft effort ip x thie business,
William Geer, in conjunction with MeiTrs. Reily, Weed
■ and Wi'.mer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on,
1 with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o
' blige the public can poflibly exert.
< The above company, who are amply provided {with
8 carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render the
> paflage fafe and commodious, inform thofo who with to
. patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they can
r take their leats at George Weed's, the sign of the White
Horse, M-ukcc Su'cot, Philadelphia, on every MOTiday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaller, Harriiburg, Cirliile'
- and shipper,fiiurg. The fare as hitherto established.
For the further accommodation of the public, a Staee
r will Hart every Wednesday from the hotfe of Samuel
' E'<ler, i,! Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber
- land county, every Thuriday, and return from theace and
arrive at Hajrrilburg every Saturday, so that passengers
' deftmed for Lanealter or Philadelphia, may proceed on
a Mondays.
GEER.
Lancaller, Jan. zy, xy^y.
Lineef Sta g« ft «tß from the house of
, w lUlam Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuelday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward •
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
at Patrick Cochran s in Shippenlburg, and returns from
thence on every Thul fday : performing] the fame roafine
daily as in «s tour from Philadelphia, jnwf
J
20 Dollars Reward.
RUN 1 ;iw»y from the Sulfcriber, living in St. George's
hundred, Newcastle county, to Port I'enn)
ftateof Delaware, a NfiGRO MAN named JACOB, born
in this state. He is a Ihort, well-made fellow, about 5
feet 4 inches high ; at,d had on when he went away, an o
livc-oolored coattee, of home-made cloth, lined with _
white fiiiiu* 1 ail through, assd white metal buttons ; -a «ld
under-jackct of white-colored cloth, the Hurts of v. luch
he cut off, to make it into a round one ; his breecK < are
of a dark grey cloth, very old, and patched in a number I
of places ; white, very cfaffe, yarn (lockingsone pair 1
of coarse lhoes, mach worn; aiid a pair of hull-wore, la
black-grained Ihoes, bound round with black silk ferret
in"-, and lined under the buckle with white liner: : also a
hatf-wora fur hat, very high in the crown, which taper* c[
off in form of a fugar-loaf, very narrow in th- trim and
is bound with black lilk ferreting. He also took with him
• a long blue eoat, lined alt thr.-ugh with b!..,e ftallOoii of w
the iair.f colour j eopper, ftclled buttons vyith three ot
the fame fcrt 011 each cuff; a yellow-colored, elaflic, c..d
lnrtout.coat. Said Jaco* is remarkably fond cf playing
(i! i the violin, and took one with him ; the oale of whicn
is of home-made, lead colored cloth, bound with red fer
reting. Whoever apprehends laid Runaway, and lodges
him m any of the goals iff this ftafe, so that his matter
mar get him again, shall receiye the abovp Reward, and '
all reasonable charges p.id by
THOMAS FARMER. 01
N. B. Said J a col has formerly lived with ffietT. Jam?s iv
Evesand Thomas Reb.infon. Febraary - - w£sf4t o:
For Sale, b (
By George D<-fchamps, No, 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET, fa
£foya-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels «
and half barrels t .
Ditto Hfrring and MackareJ.
Smoakcd H«fing in barrels and kegs p
Ditto ' Salmon, by the dozen or (ingle or.e
Dry C«dfnh, from Bfleto, fifty kentals n:
Fine and c«3rfe Salt y,
iNOva-Si-aria and French Flaftev of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and ftucco-woik
December i ttixxi
the subscriber
WISHES to afcerlain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer, i'
who quitted Ireland in 1783, or 1754, and came into
•this Country, ('tis i'uppafed tf> Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli-
geneeisof thehighefl importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS, _
No. 313, High-fireet
December 31. w & f isi
For Sale, s
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
.65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine, D
Imported by tbe Eagle. S
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&!
City of Washington. "
Scheme of the Lottery, No. 11, for the improvement
of the Federal City.
A magciiicent > 20,c00 dollars, & i
dwelling-houfo, 30,00°, are J s°,®°®* ft
r ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 40,008
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafti 10,000 io,eeo
: r'o t.ooo & ca(h <,ooo i v o,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 ft ea;r. 5,006 i j,ogu- S
1 cash prize of 10,000
s do. 5,000 each, are - 10,000
jo do. ~000 - - 10,000
jo 'io. 500 / - - 10,000 a ]
00 do. 100 - - 10,000 c |
c 30 do. 50 ■ - 10,000 h
4CO do. 35 - - 10,000 r:
t,ooo do. se - ao,ooo
15,00 a do. so - »,55>,000 si
S.
16,739 Prizes.
33,161 Blanka.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dellan, 400,000 !>
N. B. Tofavour thofc wha may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars wiil be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,poothe last but one : 3
And approved notes, fecur ing payment inc'tiler money
cr prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be reeeiyed for fa
any number not less than 30 tickets. ,
This Lottery will afford 3a elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ercited in the City of Washington
Two beautiful designs are already Iclefled for the entire ej
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofecfitoereel two ceatreand four corner buildings, y j
as fuon as uoirible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adv.entursrSpirr'q
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery, y
A nett dedu(slion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neceflkry exp-nfes of printing, the surplus
will be made a p?.rt of the fund intended for .the National
Univcrlity, to be creeled within the city of Washington.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are vaiaed at more than half the a
mouijt ot the
SAMUEL BIODGET. *
,'3, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of 7
James Well & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilmac, Boflon : n
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells 4
Cooper's Ferry. eo Is
The. Subscriber 0
INFORMS tke Public, that he. maßufa£larcs and has on
hand for sale, a very genera] afTortnacnt -
i Saddles, Bridles, Haraefs and Trunks, J
, As usual, alfoi FIRE BUCKETS ot an excellent quality u
. all which ha will dispose of ci, moderate terms at No-S8 o
Chelnurflreet, t'hiladelphia. v
WILLIAM JONES.
• February 17 fm&w 3 w e
' - ■ : . ■;. v
; Lottery and Broker's Office, £
r Noi 64, South Skccno STKEET. j
e - "TICKETS ill the Canal Lottery, No. a, for faU—3
JL Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
e the late lottery.
1 Check Books kept for examination and regifterjng, for '
- City cf Walhington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
1 iiot.li of which are now drawing—information where
g tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
„ tickets. A complete lift of all tht prizes in the late New- 0
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public Schoollottery, for *
examination. j
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public *
f and his friends, who wilh to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
_ Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands',
&c. or to obtain rhoney on deposit of property.
' *,* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for -
° sale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in
n the Spring. ]
e Ww. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January s6, 1797. icth
I 1
; " *
FOR sale
At Whitesides's TEA-WarA r
. No. 99> North S econd
Imperial ■) V* et -
Hyson, ( Frefli Ten. )f r , D Sltm -
Young Hyson, 5 ) °" choß S>
Dec. 9. V>Bohe»
TTHRA-rr-cTrfPr
CLOCKS* WATC HM AK so
HATH jtift rec«iv«d by the Fame fW r '
and Alexander Hamilton, f ro ' ra /™ ndon .
large supply of r P°ol, 1
Ge/d, G;//, W S// Wr Watches , '
Cipt a„d Jewel'd, capt and seconds ditto ; fprmzCWv
clock movements, eight day and so hour IJ,. "'
work, ,„d «i, pinions ;
mention. Udipu. tt
Ladies' Steel & Gill Chains
With or without hooks; seals, keys and trinket,
February 17
—
To the Benevolent.
THE flubfcriVer having rented that w»H l.„
ern hoiife, on Silver Spring, Comberland7 01 S"
on tns e reat road leading from Philadelphia to For,Tl'
winch he kad completely furnifhed for * e accon, mß<Ja[ i|
of travellers, but which wfortnriatdy, by accident ctoX
fare about 12 o clock » the mormng, the ~d of No»S
btr last a»d m the space of o M hour wa » totally c 0„ „
ed with all the furniture, wearing apparel, (tores c"
quor», See. to a very large amount, attetried with the'
lancholv loss of a daughter about twelve years of
who only lurvived a few hours after the fire • h; 5 wifetb
so disabled; and others ef hi» family much hurt • he ii
now reduced to ;n unhappy and deliitute (itua ion he
therefore beg. leave to f.lieit some r.lief from a generous
Mjbhc. The foHowinjj gentlemen are please.l to undertake
the trouble to folifit ai:<! rective fubfcriptiom for his be.
neSt : viz. Samuel Ricl.itdet, Merchants' Coffee- oufe •
s?mi« Thpaipfon, Indian Queen; George Irwin, Crofi
in 1 ourrh-itrcc.'t, and John Dunwoody, Spread Fa
gle, High-iircet DAVID BRIGGS.
Philadelphia, February j 4 tth-ScftM?
t+f TilK other Primeti atr rcqiwfied to BublifV • shove.
-! FJiIi£O6ALS, ' :
Fo-r Citrrprig-'-tke MsTITinTfieX'HTTED
On the following Pojl RoaJ;., n'ifl be received until
tkejfrjl day of March ntxt mcluftve
1. From Charleftun, si. y. and Coofa.
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the 'vlafl
at Charleftyn every Xuelday sad Friday by 6, I'. M.aiid
deliver it at Savannah t£e next Friday ,md Monday, bv 8
A. M. Setwmimg, receive the Mail at Savannah cry
Saturday, by 6, Y. M. and Wednesday by ®, A. M. and
deliver it pt Chsrlefton 'the no;t Tafiday anij Friday
by noon.
Proposals for ibit rune vitl he received iy fit jrf-v.afttr at
Setvannab.
2. From Coofahafchy to Beaufort once aweck—
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
r. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday.
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday fey 3, p. M.and arrita
at Coofahatchy cn Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be f««
aeivedby the poll-niaftcr at Beaufort.
Note I. The Poft-mafl.tr Genera! may alter the timet
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time do.
ring the continuance of the contracts,.he preyiouflyftipnt
lating an adequate compenfatiqn for any extra expend
that may be occafioncd thereby.
Note z. For every hours delay (unavoidable
r*.cenle 1) in arrivin" aft-.-'he fir... ' prfHrnbedß} cun»
tract, tilß"COHlra-*'Jf 4a.1l u the
delay continue liiiiil the departure of depending maij
an acklitional ioifeiture x>f .five dollars {ball be incurred*
Note Should any pcrfon makin ' proposals tiefire a/i
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpo
ciaed > h< must Hate the alteration defircd and the price
he will carry the mail for v»' itli and without fueh alte
ration.
Note 4. The are to be in operation on the
firft day of April next and so continue unt'l the 30th of
September in i-he year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pofl ftlajicr General.
General Post Qffice, >
Philadelphia, Jan. <3,1797. j
Vf *n. i(j. tzwQw*
This Day is Fubliihed, ' r 1
BY Mess* Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and ths other
Booksellers, price One DjUar and twent\>five cents, elegant
ly priaicfi oil woye paper, by John Thomp
foo,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF ,
The CO NSTIT UTI9NS of the fivtral Suits,
With each other, and with that 0/ the United States
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of eaah Coa
ftitution, aijd claipug together moft impartant pre
vifipas, under the several heads of adniim'ftration 5 with
Notes and Observations. of South-
Carolina, L tnc oT. ■ 1
United States. Dedicated to tho People of the United
States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
3-4 th« of a dollar. February 6 mwf
~F~O R SAL E y
A very Valuable Eitate,
CALLED fIfITT Elt lIA M, situate in the
town (hip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware.
7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a milc irojn f e
new Weilern road containing 230 a*cs of excellent lanfl,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 9® » [ Vl o£l ''
lsnd, and the red arable of tha firft quality. 1 L,e -
on thepreAifesagood two tlory brickhoufc, wit 4 : 0
on a'fioor, and cellars under the whole, with a pW«P *
of excelknt in front; a large frame
and fther convenient buildings *, a fmoke-houlc an. • •
fpring-houlc ; two s;ood apple orchards, and one - P'
es. The fields archil in clover, exctptihofe 'WH ie
under tillage, and are so laid oat ae to havf the <• »•
of each of them, whick renders it pecu.-s-i y
venient for grazing, .
Th« situation it pleafantandhealthy, ettif'P" 1 .
eultivation of the land, the ggod neighbourhoo , a a
vicinity to the city, it is very ftiitaule for a r , ;;
£ of the ea,te_o^ob, H*—
d e c e ased ; Lewis,
Qa. ,1. law Surviving Extcuto^_
Alt PERSONS
I TNDEBTED to the Estate of; the: late
' 1 Esquire, cither.by note, bill, bo < ravment tf ■
otherwise, are requested to make f BJ having any
' the fubferibers, without deky. and a p hib ; t t U
' just demands against said Estate, as. def.red t®
: {dmS for adj,,Umen ANN KENNEDY I
FRANCIS JOHNSTON iAdmr^
Philadelphia, February 8
PRINTED BY JOHN FE N N ,
—No. 119-^-
CB£l*l' MTieST * « ,
* .