of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser>
Nomser 1361.3
For Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
Three stories high, 16 feet front, and 40 feet deep
eacli, and adjoining; situated on the east fide of Front,
between Race and Vine-streets ; Nos. 161 and 163.
They will be fold on very reifonable terras, either
Separately or together. Apply to
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
January 13 daw
M*s. G RATTA N
feefpeftfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the iothdajr of January,
fte proposes opeaing, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftroet, a
Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Mufiins, from 6/3 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to f/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to lofio per yard
Fine Coffees
Tambonr'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to »l/ per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to ijf per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, fr«m 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Cook mufin Handkerchieft from 5/3 to iq/*6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchieft
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravat# from 10[% to 11fll »
Pocket Handkerchiefs
1 Cambric, from 11/3 to per yard
Table Cloths
HuckabuckToWelKng
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6/tj to I^/per pair
Dimity from $f\o to 6/ii
Men's Silk Hose *
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/il to
IHlh liacns for en's Shirts, from 5/5 to 5/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen** Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
docket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.-
Koufhold Lui«n, &c. &c.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made a»>d mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled itto 6 dollars
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 i-a dollars.
A fnll ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 71-2.
A plain ihirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-1 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. __ S
F 0 R sale,
rhe fibatner ORION;
Sevsnty tons burthea ; fifteen months
m "ii'if* -1 • her frame is of the bed sf white
oak : flu, 1® 1 taiuiful built vessel, handsomely finilhed off
and well found in every particular j is ready to receive a
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex
pence on, her hull, fails or rigging : file flows fix hundred
barreii; has a handsome cabin and iteerage, and a half
deck which will stow from feventy-five to eigh.y barrels;
bas been newly caulked, graved and painted. For terms
apply to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, corner of Market and Fifth-ftreets,
Or to the Captain on board laid schooner at Mcftra.
Willi» and Yardflcy's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftrect
wharf; where there is for faie
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the best of American Mess Beef, and some very wtcelknt
Lofion maHufa&ured Chocolatc.
December .26
For Sligo and Killibegs,
American Ship Nanct,
Cuthbert Kiggs, master.
vVill fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or passage apply to
William Bell j
Who has for tile,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales liifh Pianneis, and 2 boxes Linens
aj 1 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matts.
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
. November 11, iyss, mwftf
i' OK SALE,
j|~ VHE SHIP M ART,
SAMUFL parker, Mam*,
w0 hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Tf the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
o<ftober jr. , d .
tor Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
SAMUtL Pile, Master,'
Burthen 47-95 tons register, built in
Philadelphia- in the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar, and was fheaflied 13 months ago, she
fut; j»ft had a compleat cut-fit, and may be sent to fta
4t a very trifling expellee.
For terrtis apply to
Philip Nick/in & Co.
U r b<i have for faie on loard said vessel,
47 calks of fine yellow pairtt.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing Hates.
I box ink Hands and note prelles.
14 bales of fail eanvafs.
And on handy
Imperial "J '
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nankeens as the ftrft quality.
tubs Qtnckfilver.
i cherts Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few cherts Manchester goodstfell aborted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
I&o crates Queens ware well aflorted.
to tons sheet lead.
Nai!s aiTorted, flat and (harp points.
London Particnlar, .... . . ,
London Market, £ Madeira Wine m p,pes
New-York Market, 5 3 " d ho * fceai »-
40 pipes and 10 Hogfheadi Teneriffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
j j-3 logs Mahogany.'
JJov J. Ali&ftf
»
Wednesday evening, januArtis, i 79 7.
LOST,
On the Road between this city and Baltimore,
A black.leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing funclry- papers valuable only to the owner,
also between three a«d four hundred dollars. Whoever
has found the fame, and will leave it at the office of
the editor No. 119 Chefnut ftraet, wirh the contents,
particularly the-paper*, flaa.ll be handsomely rewarded,
an-1 n» questions asked.
January 17.
Wants a place, as Wet Nurse,
A woman with a good brraft of milk, who can be,
well recommended, tor further particulars enquire of
the Printer. Jan. 17.
The Lyceum, for free Debate,
At the Universal Church, *
In Lombard, between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets.
On WEDNESDAY EVENING, the iStli January
Will be Debated,
" Is the traffic in, and Holding of Slaves, consist
ent with hamanity, morality, liberty, or policy,—
or is it difjjracefiil to that nation that fanflioris or
tolerates it "
The Chair will be taken at 7 o'clock.
Admittance for Ladies and Gentlemen, x-lth of a
dollar.
~~& r NOTICE~
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several pubiic papers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern-—-to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4 $
Washington Lottery.
11CKJETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased x>r
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147,
£reet, where a correct Numerical Book is kept for publi; ,
infpe&i«ih. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for faie or ex
changed for prizes diaww in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th mid 55th days returns are received
The BuGnefs ol a Broker carried on as usual.
V A SHARE in the NliW THUATRE to be fold
on m.ifonable terms.
Tannery 12. ttStf
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Consisting of different sizes, from 11 inch cables down
to rope of 2 inches, of different length*: Imported in
the ship Swift,' from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 17. > dtf
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms oi faie apply to
l , Wrft. Blackburn,
No. 64, Struth SecoOd-itrnet
October n. mwftf
Boarding and Lodging
Maybe had at No. 6a, Peim-ftreet, in a creditablc
family /
January f
SALT P E T R E.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pctre for
faie at No. 15, South Third-itreet.
November 5.
- ■ ■■ ■ ■ ' i... 1 ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ . —
Elegant Bruflels k Turkey Carpeting,
For lale by George Dobfon, No. 25,SouthThird-ftrcet.
December ly. f | t f
Faterion-lottery.
FOR raifmg fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduaion of fifteen per
cent from the prizus, a*id not two blanks to a priz«. vi?,
I Prire of jooo dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 focra
1 500 500
S »oo loco
i 0 100 t 3000
99 SO * 49J0
200 5000
1000 I® »0,000
S Lall drawn numbers «f woo dollars each, 5000
133 o ST 1 ?- *414J0
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Sevan Dollars each, . 44,450
By order of the Dircclofs of the Society for eftabiifh
mg Ufeful Manuiactures, the fuperintendauts of the PatJ
erion Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money fro thofc pcrfons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery has aAaally commenced drawing, and Will
continue until finilbed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second Itreet, who will give information where tick
ets may b« procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, ■)
•JACOB it. HARDENBERG,Ytflanagers.
JONATHAN RHEA, >
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prue of 5000 ...
X 1000 - - 1. X 000
r jo® t 500.
S 100 ' - ' loo©
10 ico - - aoOo
9° J® 4500
165 *5 - - - - 4115
The five la(f drawn tickets, 1000 e»ch, jooo
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is oonSderably more than one Wiird
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly inr reafed, and it is worth the notice' of those
who hold tickets in the old fchepie, that they ean ex
change their tickets for thole in the above, if they ap-
Jv soon, and at a moderate advance colifidering the
low real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets beiijg nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will'be ofiener, and the Lottery soon finilhed.
November Mk mwt
A C A.R 1).
If Monjieur C. U. SioHLt,
Who left Bordeaux the sotb Ju?e last, and arrived
, at Boston ibout the middle as Aaguft, in the fchaoner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requeited to cajl on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chofnut-ftrett, who
, will give him forae ioforraatian cf importance.
p Dtcsaobcr 34, 1796. f
Cheap French China.
THE f«bfei iber» finding it impossible to ft>p;jly their
(lore with any more Cbm» from France, the prices
lirtiig too immodg-ate is the manufactories, giv« no
tice that they will £.11 at prime toft the remaining
(lack on hand, confiding of
Deflert Sects,
Tea-Table Setts
1 Separate Cops and Saucers
Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vafos
Looking GlaCcs, in gilt frames,
Befidcs India Japau'd Toilet Delks, Chairs, Tables
nacl Quadiille Boxe.. PASQtnEK Sc. Co.
No. 9!, South Seeond-ftreet.
December s'ti. tts
Imported from London & Liverpool ±
EARTHEN WAKE, in crates and hogQieads, well
affoited
Wine Bottlts in hampers
Window Glass of A■ fv/cs
Two cases ofyftatiomry
One chest of yellow Jeiuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
A smalt confignme.nt of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-dot lis, Coating*, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colors.
Ballet fait in hogfiieads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wins, vety aid, in pipes, hogflicads and
quarter calks
Holland gill in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French shoe» afiorted
SRk nan keen,
Likewise an aftbrrment of Dutch goods, confiding of
OfnahiT '9, ticWenbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaii linen, p'.atillas, ravens duck, Britannias, &c»
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas Iff John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nov. 15, cots
Particular Teneriife Wine.
50 Quarter-caflcs Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a foperior quality,
For Sale by
A. Mar pie & Israel W. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-street.
January is tti6
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
Company,.
January 6, 1797.
At a mertinsr ef the President and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollers per (hare, was declared for the
last half year, which will he paid to the Stockholders,
. or their reprefentativesany time after the jift of this
month.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
Jan. 6. - iaw4w.
OJfice, of the Infurunce Company of North-America,
January 9/i, 17-97.
The Dividend declared by the Diredlors, for the last
fixraonths, is two dollars, for each (hare of flock in
this company, which will be paid to the Stockholders
, tir their attornies duly suthorifed, at any time after
the 19th inft. By order of the Board,
tawt 19th EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, CifC. iffc.
This day landing from the ihip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from Londoa,
And FOR S.ALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Comer of Walnut and Second-ftreeta, •
Jf mofi capital and exteifroc dffortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c, &c.
Aihong which are,
Five kinds Asparagus Three Li lids Crelfes
Fouf Berecolc Twelve Onion
Twenty-fivi Beans Thirteen Radifli
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli Fifteen Peas
Twenty-fw Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Car rut Four Parinip
Thres Cauljfluwer Twenty-tlvree Melon
Five Celery Tweiity-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber
Common and letnon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjoram
Balm Thyme Mangel Wiiitzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucefnc
Red and white Clover Timed; y, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the mbft esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the irtoft extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedfntan in London, ancf
are warranted freih and gvod.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. <;§
In order to comply ivith contra Bc, I quill fell, for
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of FredSrickfturg, begmning op
posite to the lower cortier of Doilor Wellrord's, on
Caroline-ftren, Jnd running up to the cross street"
leading to FilZhugh's ferry, and from theuce back to
Sophia-ftreit. This fqaarelhave laid off into 24 lots,'
17 and an half feet front, and iii back, 14 on Caro
liue-ftrect, aifti u 011 Sophia-street. Nine of those
m Caroline-street I have leafed on ah anrioal ground
■rent of 3 and 10 pounds, to the anaotmt of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a nut chafer could enhance ttte valui
.of by building final, h»\ifts, which will as readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will Martins in the
fp r *"g» a "d yiel-o a greater profit in proportion to
their cost than large building. Those who incKjje
to purchalt may know the terms by applying to
HCNIU' fITZHUGH.
BcU-Air, Dec. 8, 1 jfit. nlj d4w
WANT.E Dj
A MECHANIC, to cre<!\ Spinning and Weaving
Machine® by water, fu'ch a» are lifted at ray manufac
tory—Apply to ' JAMES DAVENPORT,
No. 40 f, North Ffont-flreer.
N. B. None need apply complete
and a ma a of liability.
Globe Mill, December if), 1796. f
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99' North Second Street. i
Imperial } rHyfon Skin.
Hyson, > jFrcfti Tms. < Souchosg,
Young Hyson, J C Boheft
Dec " c '~ 3taw.;in.
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STRRETy
I Has received by the late arrivals,
A IVtli Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen E)rapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
to weft terms ;
Amongji ivbich are
Some elegant 4*4 iai 7-8 Chintzes and Cettoas, new
fWttCTM
Ditto Furniture ditto \
Dittri Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jartnet Muflias
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hoficry
Umbreilai of the firft quality, assorted
lriih Linens, Very firu., and Table Linens
Marseilles ad Cotton tlounterpatrcs
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. &c.
0&ob«r 16. £
Notice,
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that t have applied (0 th*
judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to fu'pply the
defed in my Title to a lot of ground, Ctuste on the Weft
fide of FoUrth-street, containing in breadth 10 fiet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Weltward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
*hipptn, and EaftwaiVl by Foiirth-ftreet, occafionad by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Levft
and Jantes Walton, by their attorney Rob*t Mollyneitt.
—All perfoas concerned, are required to appear before
two of the jufticus of the fald court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, fefq. the Chief Jaftkfc of the state, on
the 30th inft. at 10 o clock in the ioretioon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office ef
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the said court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, ju/i.
PhHadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dtjoth
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Directors a dividend of
sixteen dollars on each (hire was declared for the lift
6 months, which will be pud to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Gafliier.
J»«- 3- dtf.
A Quantity ps BrandvT""
FIRS i 5c id proofs
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipre
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, ia HJkl»
Old Hock, in files of 40-dozen each
Glass Tumbler*, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different fu;s
Hazleniite, in fatks
Whiting
Copperas ( . ■
White Lead C 10 KW *
& Spanilb Brown J
For Sale by PETER SLIGHT.
January 4 . . t
For Sale,
By Gfcofge Defchamps, No. qi.
NORTH' SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmoil, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackartl.
Snioaked Herring in barrels ind keg?
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or iingle one
Dry Codfifh, from olie to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, iu the stone
and ground, for manure and flucco-work
December 1.
, the Subscriber
WISHES to afcertaiu, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland -i« 1783, or 1784, and came into
this Country, ('tis supposed to Philadelphia) about
four year,s flnce, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of thehigh'eft importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
Decembers I. w&fim
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-ftre«t,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdfck, Via Lett;
>lon, an assortment of
Scarlet
Drab t Cloaks brimmed with fur and
Purple and ( ermine.
Ptarl J
. December f5. *
* The Elephant,
Now exhibited, waj bought for Ten Thoufaui
Dollars.
He is 3 yedrs old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eits 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenfivetravels loose, at the
rate of five miles an horn-, and is the greateit curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January in
Market-street betweeii Third and Fourth-ftrects, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him
after which time the former price of half a dollar wilt
be refumcd.
Ha will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weathef
wiir permit.
December jr t v
[Volume XI.New Theatre.
THIS EVENING, Wednesday, January ig,
Will be presented,
A COMEDY, called
Every one has his Fault.
Lord Norland, Mr. Warren
Sir Robert Ramble, Mr. Whgntll
Mr. Sclus, Mr. Morris
Mr. Harmony, Mr. Bates
Captain Irwin, (ifttime) Mr. Cooper
Mr. Placid, Mr. Mo ret on
Hammond, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Porter, Mr. Warrell
Edward, Miss L l FJI range
Lady-Eleanor Irwin, ift time, Mrs. Merry
Mrs. Placid, (firft time) Mrs. OUmixon
Miss Spiniter, Mrs. Z.'JZftrangc
Miss YVooburn, Mrs. Morris
To which will be added
A Comic Opera, in two afls (as performed at Covent-
Garden Theatre upwards of 150 nights), sailed
The Lock and Key.
Brummagem, Mr. Francis
Chrerly, Mr. Darlev, jun.
Captain Vain, Mr. Fox
"Ralph, Mr. Httrivovd
Florella, . Mrs. Warrell
Fanny, Mrs. Oldmixon
Selina, Mrs. Harvtj
Dolly Miss Milbeurne
£5" The public are refpeflfully informed, that af
ter this evening, the above Opera will neteflarily be
laid aside for a considerable time.
£5" On Friday a celebrated Comedy in three afls,
(net performed this feafan) called
The MOUNTAINEERS—with Entertainments.
Box, One Dollar cents. Pit one Dollar,
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Tickets to be had.at H. &P. Rice's Book-store
No. 58 High-flcoet, and at the Office adjoining the
s Theatre. t .
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Cumin rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to nc taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from le till 1 o'clock, and from
•to till 4 on the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested t® fend their
Servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as scon as the company are seated, to
withdraw, at they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain. ,
• VIVAT R ESPUBLICA !
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. F E N N E L L
RefpeflfuHy informs the that
On THURSDAY EVENING, Jan. 19, at 7 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
(first part)
The Prison Scene in the Vicar of Wake eld, Goldsmith
The equal dealings of Providence demonltvatcd, do.
(second part)
Edwin and Emma, , Mallet.
Lavinia, Thotnfon.
(third Part)
The Hermit, ' Parnell.
*"
&> On SATURDAY,
(first part)
On the Means of Improvement in Oratory, includ
ing fele£lions from Dr. Blair.
(second part)
Satan's Address to the Sun, Milton.
Anthony's Speech on the Body of Julius
Csefar, Shakespeare.
Anthony's Funeral Oration, j, Shakespeare.
% (third part.)
Hamlet's Soliloquy on Death, -Shakespeare.
Cato's Soliloquy on the Immortality of
the Soul, Addifon.
Ode on the Passions, Collins.
sjjT On MONDAY, January 33d,
Selections from History.
Edwin and Angelina.
Gray's Elegy ; and
Part of the Defertcd Village.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfan, jun. at the Library ;
atmr. M'Elwee's lsoking-glafs-ftore, No. 70, S. Fourth
ftreet j and at Mr. Carey's, Bookfeiltr, Market-dreet —
Half a dollar each.
A Watch Loft.
Loft on Monday last, a Silver Watch, makers' names,
" Hauxhurlt and Dotilt New-York, 8 .>9," on the face,
hour hand in a final! circle ; the rair.ute hand revol
ving in a larger. Whoever has found and will return
the fame, to James Edgfr, corner of Second jud Ca
tnarine Streets, liall receive Ten Dollars reward. If
offered for sale, it is requested it may be Hopped.
January, 18. *.^t
Bank of the United S#ites,
January 2nd, *797'
The Dirc&ors have this day declared a Dividend of
Sixteen Dollars on each Share for the last fix months,
which will be paid to the Stockholders alter the lath
instant, G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJlreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for th*ir liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to folieit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an estenfive alTor'ment of the
Mall Fajhionabls GOODS,
And of the beil quality, luitzible for the fcafon.
At this ftiop Gentlemen caa be furaiihed withthe best
and have thtm made up in the ncateft and moil
I r afhionable manner, and ©n the fhorteil notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay\k prompt and
punilual attention to them.
November 10. wi
Wanted on hire, i
A Cook, male or female—alfo a mail servant to at
tend in a private family and perform the duties be
longing to the dining room. None need apply who
do not unc'eiftand and have not been to the
lefptiSli'x fervivesand who are not well recommended i
lor honeity and good behavior.
Apply at No. lßi, Mulberrj -ftrtct, or to the printer. i
Januaiy s. taw jw i
List of Prizes and Blanks in the
WajhingUn Lottery, No. 11.
54th Days DrAing, January 7.
JV». Doh. No. Dots. No, D»ls. No. Dots.
95 . 10265 1® 21835 38654 10
189 296 10 22147 10 10
455 10 967 10 240 793 io
47 1 11054 564 932 10
612 155 23067 39319
1646 10 378 25 24682 40993
189 644 844 10 108
684 1*383 lo 884 505 10
2829 10 686 « 25778 932
892 _ 13882 37286 41392 10
3148 14025 20 575 326 xo
27i 056 848 842
273 4*9 *8410 873
292 10 ' 452 537 9 g 4
'°3 29030 42250 10
627 10 945 10 292 44^35
4000 10 15017 10 901 lU4 io
17* IO 181 10 30304 546
359 275 557 45*86
882 702 10 802 401
5175 10 16485 gn ( 10
464 512 924 711 10
516 10 709 10 986 46214 10
699 10 966 32564 ia 47675
6069 17357 938 999
100 18136 976 ' 48078 1
359 *89 33807 095
815 646 io 34041 097 10
7427 10 860 699 317
80104 io 944 869 399
IS2 10 19047 35583 50®
(>55 097 6l» 609
663 10 20161 36511 to 617
' 351 10 562 *76
9226 459 - 830 991
288 612 37830 49617
296 21016 38240
' 10076 10 183 10 441
1 ——
55th Days Drawing, January 9.
No. Dots. No. Dais. No. Dots No. Vols.
1858 10 15788 26807 36422
3 2 45 16211 10 27724 37009
596 10 527 997 046
6 *S 17578 28*176 55 8 10*
960 13 18060 10 991 613
5 1 3° 19203 20 30038 948
10 5 *33 054 38483.
958 10 *0087 3 1 173 39126 10
6291 io , 406 570 458
502 is 467 572 10 577
523 i24»9 670 668 ia
10005 10 595 32584 io 40596
091 680 679 734 10
386 23302 831 41643
588 770 33127 10 673
933 24183 752 43166 50
11444 447 854 2© 568 10
618 . 674 10 908 865
13177 699 10 970 44458
293 835 10 34483 10 45227
355 25065 535 46543
627 10 605 712 47529
14439 10 818 35243 741
15064 26425 908 823
4'3 10 10 36031 49688
CONGRESS or the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVF J.
Tuesday, January 3.
The report of the comint;tee of Ways and Means
on the fubjedl of the balances due from indivi
dual States to the United State* being under con
federation.
Mr. Williams moved that the farther confident
tiou of the fubjeft (hould be postponed to that day
three weeks, for the reasons which had been urged
by his eolleague yetterday.
Mi. Coit hoped, except some stronger reasons
than had yet oeen given for the pott.ponemcnt, it
would not take place. The conduct of gentlemen
from the state of New-York, he thought extraor,
dirvary on this occasion. It appeared as if they
wished to give thebufinefs the Ge-ty in silence, by
mean 3at delay. There had already been time e
nough for blinking objc&ions forward, if there had
been, any for the last three years ? but now when
they were about to be called upon to pay, time
waa demanded in whi.ch to bring forward obie&ions.
For his part he thought the refolutio* ought le
pas» at present.
Mr, Li'vingfton was sorry the deputation from
New- 1 ! Oik should befufpedled of disingenuous con
duS. -They had explained thcii reasons for wish
ing the pdliponement, which was that they might
have an opportunity to consult the state which they
represented, a.id not to give the business tht go-by
in liletics, as the geutlemai) from Conne£ticut had
; fappofed. iotne of those members did not confi-
I der thcmfeJvcs as r prefeniatives of New-York, in a
j fepijt'ste independent capacity, but in general as a
state of the Union, ;nd that it was uecedary to
have paiticular i..£liudtious on this point. The re
port, he said, had only been laid a few days on th»
table j and if -Ins motion had yesterday been in -or
der [or a postponement, he bad not a doubt, from
the disposition of the house, it would have pafTed.
The gentleman from Connecticut had said that
three yean had pasTed fincc the settlement of these
accounts, and *0 objection had been made to it on
the part of Ntw-York. He acknowledged three
years had elapftd and no-steps had been taken to
enforce the demand. He believed indeed that
there was a kind of undtrdanding at the time, that
these debts were te be buiied in oblivion. The
creditor states had had their credits fecu-ed, but uo
order had been taken wuh refpeft to the debts.
He mentioned this as a reason for no Heps having
b fc en taken. He spoke of it however only from
information. He hoped the delay «f three years
in the business, would not be brought as an objec
tion against the short postponement now aflced for.
Ii had never been their custom, he said, to press
fubjecfs which were important, when delay was re
quired by any member on rcafosable giound. He
the re fore 1 elied upon it that the postponement would
be granted. J
Mr. N. Smith said, it was never the cuftora of
tbe house to press a fubjeft-wheu there was any rea
fonablc ground for delay. The gentlemen from
Ncw-\ oik laid it waa ucceflary to hear from their
date on the present fubjedt, as they were not autho
rized to act for that date is its individual capacity.
He agreed that they had no nght to appear in he
half of that state individual!)', but he could fee ne
rer;fon for waiting to hear from thencc before the
relolution in quellion was pait. Could they not re
falve to afl; a debtor for payment, without; asking
leave of that debtor i Were they aboui to adopt
coercive measures, it would be reasonable te give
them notice ; but-they Were merely asking for the
money. This, be faifl, was the proper m6de of
doing it, and wouid draw foith their obje&ions, if
they bad any to the payment. These ofbjeflioni
would be given by the slate, and this was the regu
lar way of receiving them ; and therefore he could
fee no poflible realoo to postpone the present quef
lion.
Mr. Gilbert said, it would be recolle£ted when
the subject ®f thelc balances were under coafidera
. tion three years ago, th,tt there was really an un
derstanding in many of the debtor states, that tho'
it was necefiary that provision fliould be made for
funding what waa due to the creditor Itates, that
there the business would (top: and, when the mo
tion far relinqui filing the debt was agitated, it was
said there was no iJccaUon to pass such a resolution,
as there <vas no diipolition in government to en
force the payment. A member then in the house,'
and who was also one of the commiffiottera, made
'he motion for relinquiihing the claim, as improper.
It was observed by the gentleman last up from Con
»e£ticut (Mr. Smith) that the members from N-
Yurk had no business to represent that Itate indivi
dually. He did not undeiftand the meaning o! this
aflertion. Though he eonfidered himfelf as a re-
of the Union, he thought hiraielf par
ticularly so of New-York. In making this claim,
Mr. G. said, the house (hould be aflured it was well
founded. Whether it was so or not, this was the
proper time to shew, a«d it waa therefore necessary
that the reprcfentatives of New-York'fhould have
timet® colleA fafta to shew that the debt was not
a fair 011 c. There was no difpofiiion, he said, in
those members to give this motion he g» by ; but
the fubjedt was of a feiious nature, and requiied
the delay which had been fohcited. Another gen
tleman from Conneflicut (Mr. Coil) had endea
vored on a preceding day to m ike it appear that it
would be the interell of the orher dates t» make
New-York pay the debt in queltion. Upon the
fame plan, he said, it might be the interell of all
the states in the Union to combine and throw a tax
upon an individual state. He hoped the motion
would prevail.
Mr. Cbriftie wished the postponement not to
take place. The gentleman who made the motion,
had already had an opportunity of making a long
speech on the occafioiij and, if the fubjeft was put
off for three weeks, he supposed they would have
the story over again. He did not pofTefs the fear
which his colleague had exprefTed, of imitating the
debtor Hates by a/king for payment. He thought
when they wanted money, they ought to call upon
those who owed it for payrpent. If they gave the
bufiliefs the go by now, they fhsuld never ieceiTc
any thing. He was for bringing 11 to an immedi-,
ate teiminatiou.
Mr. Macon said, he should vote for the poft
pencment. His reason was, that whatever was
determined upon, the debtor Itates Blight not have
it to fay they had been unfairly used. North-Caro
lina could not be interelted in the delay ; but gen
tlemen from New-York had dated that they could,
by means of the proposed delay, obtain certain fa£ta
which would throw light upon the fubjeft. He did
not v know that this would be the cafe 5 but he
thought they ought to be indulged, as very fre
quently delays were granted in business of much
less importance. This very day, he said, a post
ponement had taken place in a decision upon a
report, refpe£ting some land in the back country,
on a plea of gaining information ; and surely, when
this liberty was allowed in matters of compara
lively small moment, it ought to be all«vved on a
fubjeft which perhaps was the most delicate that
ever came before the House. He knew it was the
general sentiment of his state that if the settlement
had been a fair one, they should not have been
debtors but creditors ; the postponement was, how
ever, sot too short a time to benefit them ; but, as
it had been defircd by the gfntlemen from New-
York, he wished it to take place.
Mr. Murray said, as a poltponement for three
weeks would not answer any purpofc to the gentle
men of North-Carolina, he wished it had been
moved to extend it to fix. He would, for his
part, vote for any amendment to a measure which
be conceived to be so radically wrong. He could
wish the measure delayed to another session. Poffl
bly delay might be of great value, not considering
it on the scale of pounds, (hillings, and pence, but
on the feore of public peace artd tranquility. What,
from the present temper sf that and from
the accountjjiven by the gentleman from New-
York, jpf the sentiments of that Itate, could be ex
pe£ted to be gained by the proposed enquiry ?
Nothing, he feared, but and disunion,
compared with which, four million of dollars funk
into nothing. If a delay for three weeks were to
take place, the jtiftice of the claim would not be
lcfTened, and gentlemen who desired it would not
be fatisfied. And besides, he hoped, if a delay of
one Week rnly took place,' the advocates of this
measure, when they came to look cooly into tilt
would be so fatisfied of the mifchiefs which
would attend the pursuing of it, that they would
be ready torelinquifh it altogether. It wae hinted,
Mr Muiray said, that some of the states vv»ulii
refufe to pay ; but if the gentleman's motion suc
ceeded and the demand was made ifiV were refuftd,
it mutt be enforced, or the dignity of the govern
ment mnft be funk. Had the gentleman from
Conne£ticut, imagined this? But, said he, suppose
the resolution takes place, and the governments of
the debtor dates do not chufe to comply, and yoa
do not chufe to enforce the demand, the liw would
deep on your desk, and the, impotence of the go
vernment of the United States would be seen by all '
the world, and, if you did determine to force the
dates into a payment, you might, in fame measure,
throw them out of the union in their individual '
capacity.
Mr. Murray said, he was not one of those who d'eni- '
ed thejuftieeof the demand; but he eonfidered the
matter more as a great political question, than at to !
whit related to the four million of dollars. 1
Whilst la* was up Mr. M. said, he wn'-UI jufl k(i? s
that he did not oelicve the state which lit leprel'entcd
weuldbeone of those which would rc use to comply
with the demand ; bu', as he never could contemplate
thepayment of the whole, debt by the state, he l'uppol'-
ed the state #f Maryland would make payment only
upon the fame conditions with other debtor states.
Mr. Macon said, tUat one reason for his voting for
the postponement was, that th.- legislature of New
■ York was now in session, and might be immediately
- applied to. For his own part he could wifli the busi
ness postponed for a year .; as never having been men -
tioned in Congress since the fettlemeiit, the different
legidaturei had never taken any order upon the f'ufejeA.
Being from a deb'or state, he had not chosen to fay
much upon the business, and believing, from the tem
per of the House, that a motion for a postponement
of the bulinel's till the next year would not have t,eia
carried, he had forborne making it.
Mr. Thatcher said, that when the motion was firft
brought forward, he was inclined to wiih it might not
be ailed upon, from a different motive, than that
which afluated other gentlemeu. He thought the i'ef
fion ftort, and that they had business of greater weight
which demanded their attention j but he thonght the
reafous which had been offered for a poflpmieitfent,
were furh as would convince every man that the ref»-
luti»n ought to be paflid without the delay of a day
or an hour. What was the rtafon he aiked, why
fame gemlemen wilhed for a poftpenement for three,
others for fix weeks, and others for a year ? Ob the
tfeat there wjs a tacit underftaudiug between the
United and individual States, that the balance would
never be called for. What had been the confequente I
The state" of New-York finding the United States had
slept ever the business, believed they (hould not be cal
led upon, and now, whan the call was about to be
tnade it was said they were unprepared. But if ths
call w<rs not peVfifted in, it would give countenance to
the idea of its being abandoned.
This resolution, >ir. T. said, was, not more than a
barenotifica ion to the individual states that they had
certain demands upon diem. When this was done, if
they had any objeilion to make to them, then was the
proper time to eiiufe agents to come forward and de
clare those obje&iont , for, said he, if the different
representatives were to infor.ii their tia:es what was
doing, the information would be irregular; therefore,
j the fame reason offered by'he gentlemen for a post
ponement, convinccd him of the prcpne;yof palling
the refclution. Why, he fiid, were luggeitions made
that these states were unwilling to pay their debt» ?
He thought it extremely wrong to form such a conjec
ture.
The gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Murry) had
offered a reason for not pilling this refoluuon, which
would have some weight in it, if it Was w ill founded.
These debts are not to be callcd for, he said, becaufeit
would eaufeconfufion, and thiow the drbtor i.atcs out
of the union. If he thought so, he would not only
postpone the business, but blot out the demand from
their books But he had nefuch idea. They did not
know at present, that the state ef New-York or any
ether state were difincliried to pay, as the reprcfeuta
tives had acknowledged they had no authority to make
a declaration on the fulvjeifl As far as he underitood
the business, the feulement was fair, just, and honora
ble ; and every motive which would induce an indi
vidual to pay his debts, ought to operate on the debt
or states topjj' theirs.
Mr. Gilbert would just observe, that the gentleman
from Massachusetts, and others, took for granted that
the debt in queflion was just, which they disputed.
He also again went into argument to prove the ntceffi
tyof making enquiries into the fubjetS.
Mr. Williams did not mean his motion to have the
effeA of poftpoin'ing the business 'till next lellion,
though if other gentlemen wilhed it he h. t. no objec
tion. Mr. W. recapitulated some of his rcalbns, for
uilhing an inveftigatiofl of the business, and a post
ponement to lake place for that purpose.
Mr. Claiborne was at a loft to know what use could
be made of any information on the fubjeiSl, unless it
was to dispute the settlement, which he believed to be
binding. He thought to adopt the refoiution before
them, would be til? best way of bringing the matter to
issue, and it eould not fairly be objeited to, as it was
, merely a rt#ueft. He hoped therefore, it would be
[ passed without delay.
Mr. Potter was averle to the postponement, be
cause no fwfficient reason had been given tor it. It
had been faie!, that when the commifiiuners repart
was received, the creditm- Hates had had their cre»
dits funded, yet it had been tacitly uuderllood, the
debtor states were never to be tailed upon for their
balances. This, he said, was not a lufficient rea
son for the delay. It had been said, that it was
improper at this time to call upon these states for
their balances. Was there any better time, he ask
ed, for calling for a debt, than when the debtyr
was able to pay, or than when the creditor wanted
the money ? he thought not. If there existed aiyr
obje&ions to the payment of these debts, this was
the best mode of bringing them forwardi
It was said by jhe gentleman from Maryland
( Mr. Murray) that this was a bad time to make
the application, and that it might throw the Unit
ed States into great eonfufion. If this were likely
to be the cafe, it was bell to know it soon. He
had no idea of rclir.quiftiing the claim ; and if tliey
were not to be on friendly tei Ms with the state mi
New-Yoik, or any other state, but by the fame
means which gained them the friendfhip of the clcy
and regency of Algiers, he lliotild not wilhforit.
Mr. Potter said lie could not lee upon what
terms gentlemen ebjefted to this refolutian. It
was a reflection upon the people of New-York, to
do so. Hehimfelf Dad no doubt, but they would
pay tile money when the demand was regularly
made upon them, aj it was their share of the price
of the revolution, and of their ficedom; and
gentlemen (hould suppose that making these de
mandsvwas calculated to -create confuftOn in the
United Stales, was extraordinary. By the report
of the fecictary of the iieafury, they had a c;>lcii
latien on the subject of dirett taxation. Huiy
were these taxes, he asked, to be collected ? VVei e
they not to be demanded from states which were
taxing their own inhabitants ? And would not these
people, if the Hate of New-York and others wei;e
excused from the payment of their debts, have
gaod reason to complain, at thus being callcd upotl
to make good other's deficiencies ? And would not
they also be as likely to £hew a spirit ef lehitance,
when inch demands were made upon them, as the
state of New-Ymk whin she were called upon to
difcharge-her just debts: He believed the one cafe
was hilly as probable as the other.
Had the resolution on the table alone been at*
tended to, the present business would have been '
simp!c r as it wag a mere request for payment,
mull have been with the money, or reafpftt
why it was not ,pajd. But the fubjetf had beta
greatly wandered from. As gentlemen were how
ever extremely anxious for a delay of thus weeks,he bad no great oVje&inn to its .being granted, tho'
no Inffieient reafou nad been for it. Mr.
Potter concluded with faying, he doubted hot„the
honor of New-York would force them to pay the
money-
Mr. Gilbert rose, when the Speaker informed
t»* c Hc*ufe, the gentleman had already spoken
twice, and that, according to the rule, without
leave, he could not be permitted to speak a third
time. Leave was gi anted ; when Mr. Gilbert again
cbjefted to the ju(tice of the claim againlbNew
\otk, and urged the propriety of a postpone
ment.
Mr. Thatcher said, if he had the most distant
suspicion that the application in question, had any
tendency to produce disunion amongst the states, 1
he Ihould be as strongly opposed to it as any man,
because be confideted the union of the states as the
rock of their salvation.
The gentleme . from New-York, who were the
principal advocates for the poftponemedt, did not
agree fufficiently amongst themselves; to warrant
the ijieature. One or more of them, said they,
were not authorised ta aft in the business, others
said they were. If authorised, they could not
want a postponement for inftrudions; and if not
authorised, the resolution ought to pass, that their
state might authorise foraebody. Another gentle
man had laid a postponement was wanted, because
the settlement was not just. He believed it was
just, for three reasons, viz. flrft, because though
the settlement had been made three years, no ob
jection had been made to it ; because the settlement
had been partly executed, so far as to pay the
interest to the creditor (late* ; and because the law
making provision for the settlement and final adop
tion wf it, made no provision for an appeal from
that settlement.
For these three teafons, which Mr. T. said he
had merely mentioned, but which would not fuffer
tar being dilated upon, he should be opposed to
every idea of breaking up the settlement which
had been made.
[T# be Continued.]
CONTINUATION OF
Late Foreign Intelligence.
FRONTIERS of TYROL, Ofleber 11.
A Neapolitan courier, it is said, has been sent to
Archduke Chiles, to apprize liitn that 30,000 Nea
politan troops have entered the Papal territory.
In a sortie which VVurrriler made on the 7th inft. -
theloi's of the Frtnch is stated to have been very con
fidfcrable. Several ammunition waggons, magazines,
and military chests, 'were taken from them.
General Alvinzy, with the army under his com
mand, has entered the Venetian terntory.
BANKS of the MEIN, o<9ober 19.
The corps of reserve under General St. Sztarray,
■which has marched to the reinforcement of the army
of the Archduke, conlifh of ic,ooo men. The '
whole of the Anftrian foree in Suabia will now
amount to from 85 to 90,000 men.
It is now said, that the Hereditary Prince of Wir- j
temberg is gone to Vienna, to eater into a conference
relative to the treaty of peace between VVirtemberg
and France. report is likewif* circulated, that '
Sooo' of the troops of VVirtemberg, which are to he '
paid by the Empress of Ruflia, will again join the I
Imperial army, with the contingent of VVictamburg, {
■which will be commanded by the Hereditary Prince ;
in which rase, the peace concluded bp the Duke with
France will be annulled.
LONDON, November 8.
The inhabitants ot Modena and Reggio, at the
inftariceof the French (whom he had offended by [
supplying Mantua with provisions) have shaken off
*he dominion of the Duke their Sovereign.
In consequence of the disturbances in Belfaft, the '
play houje has been (hut up, and a large force un
der Lord Carhampton, is under orders fov that t
neighbourhood. ,
According to private letters from the Cape, the I
(hare of pi i2e money to each captain of the fleet, '
undei ' Sir Keith Elpliinftone, will amount to c
30001, sterling.
A letter from Van Halten, the Dtiteh minister
at Vienna, has been published at the Hague. It
stated that the French messenger who had arrived
j in that city from Italy, having received his Impe- 1
t'ial MsjeHy's answer, waso« the eve of bis return. C
His miifioH- has been folefy to notify to the Empe- J
»or the fectffion of the king of Naples from the
confederation ; to demand an exchange ot phfon-
ets, and for this purpole a partial, or a general
truce ; and to announce the determination of the
Dire&ory to revolutionize the xonquered proviuces
of Italy, particularly Lombardy, and convert them
into an independent republic, under the protection ®
ef Francc, fhsuld the Emperor long persist 111 the
war.
At Amftcrdam the people spoke with much
confidence, as to the ifTue of admiral Lucas's ex-
pedition againrt the cape. U
In the Tcxel there were several vefTels of war, j
but few only ofthem were ready for sea.
Several vefTels freighted with British j_i)ods had t
been allowed to land their cargoes, and it was be
lieved that the recent prohibition again ft their i«»- »,
port, which was virtually uiafolute, would (hoitly
be annulled.
St. James'l, November 3, 1796. '
This day Mahomet Cagga, ambafTader extraor
dinary and minister plenipotentiary from Tirtiis had f .
a private audience of leave of her majstty ; to which
he was introduced by William Price, Eiq. her tr.a- o
jelly's vice-chambetlain.
November 16.
r<
An Evening paper of last night stated, on the t<
authority of some perfon,faid to have arrived in a
vefTcl irom Calais, that a few hours before the ves
sel failed, intelligence had been communicated by
the Tclegraphe to Lisle, of a desperate engagement
having taken place near Trieste on the 20th ult.
between the Aufttian aimy commanded by Gen.
Alvinzy, destined to relieve the garrison of Man- tl
tua, and the French diviiion under General Mas- vi
fens, in which the former was completely defeated, 0
am! 2COO prisoners, and all the Austrian irtillerji
and baggage, fell into the hallds of the enemy. tc
It was also reported, that General Wurmfer, if
diiiing madta sortie from the gar- it
rifon of Mantua, and fncceetjed fn defttovir.fr the
'■ greater pa tat the enemy's worlds, and killing a
great number of men ; but that, after a desperate
ie conflict, the Auftrians were driven back into the
fortrefs by a numerous reinforcement which arrived
d to the aid of the French from Piedmont and Tyrol.
As not only the letters from Vienna of the 20th
>t ult. and from Italy of. the 26th, brought by the
d last Hamburg Mail, but even a letter from Tri
n efte written on the day subsequent to that on which
trie action is pretended to have taken place, take
•- not the fnudlell notice of any fach event, we incline
to believe that those reports have .not the smallest
t foundation in truth.
Y „ We are not surprised that one »f the daily papers,
remarked for it, inveterate fertility to his Majesty's
( mmifters, fhoujd pronounce so deeifively on the infin
= " rit >l, of Ffench Direiflory to m=ke peace with
Mr. Pitt. _ V\ e have every reason to believe that it has
_ long been in confidential relation with the French go-'
- vernment ; and ~'e know to a ce/ta:nty thst ori sn ap
plication being made to it, during the miflion ofM.
t Lhauveltn, to support the measures of the National
, Aflembly, it demanded, as the price of its support, the
5 enormous sum of seven thousand livres per mouth
[ (about ißol, sterling.) The person from whom we
t t"e tJ'i 1" mttreflin S f »«. had it from one of the
rrench Diplomacy, who mentioned it as a proof of the
exorbitant demand of the paper in question. That sum
was refufed in the firft instance, but whether it was ac
' eepted afterwards, or that the Editor fell in his price,
, all we know is—that he dined with M. Chauvelin aid
, M. Ch-uvelin dined with him, and from then"; we
, may account for the knowledge poffeflkd by that pa
per, ot the present difpofitior. of the French Gdvern
; ment. But though this paper may b« in the confi
" . of th * enm r. we surely run no risque in
queuioning very much its veracity, when it pretends
to so accurate a knowledge of British councils. We
beg oar readers to p-fletil on this a paper
anxious to bring his Majalty's Guvernnient into dif
cred't, and on its motives ; and then fay,, whether any
reipea is due to its pretended revelations ef the British
Cabinet, and its flinders ag.inft its councils.
Ma———■■■ urn iniinii
PHILADELPHIA)
JANUARY 18, 1797.
COMMUNICATIONS.
The contrail between the conduct of France and
Anuria towaids each other, must strike all Eu
rope and speak loudly in favor of the magnanimous
forbearance of the United States. France, Spain
and Holland are impotent at sea against England
alone. Should America be driven to unite with
the latter, the French would in a little time cease
to have ijlands in the Weft-Indies. France must
be feiifible of this truth, and no doubt would con
duct herfelf less arrogantly towards the United
States, was she not ftimula'ed ts» proceed, by men,
whose councils may lead her into the fame thiflake,
whicU similar counsels led Great Britain into.
Your democrat is in politics j what your deist is
in religion. The former writes, or propagates,
whatever has a tendency to excite the people ag«tinft
their own government, and p omotc " holy inftr
rcclion the latter, whatever is calculated to de
fttoy the people*' belief in the authority ef the
scriptures, and promote " ka!y itrfiJelity"
It is veiy certain, that the leading democrats in
France and the United States, are atmoft to a man
deijls or ntheifis. s It 13 also true, that we have
political democrats among us, who fttew a difiutli
nation to be religious democrats. To accommodate
both forts of patritts, citizen Bache has advertised
Faille's political it'arks, to be fold separate, from tiis
deifiicul age of reason, for the afe of families.
It b worthy of remark and /ernen hrance, that cer- \
tain democratic publications, hold- up the threat of
domestic infurreftion; or if that fliould be thought too
hazai'dous an experiment, of withdrawiii e from the 1
Uiiited States, in the event of a French w; r, to a 1
country which they fay is to become a French province, j
That monsieur Barney fheuld be defended by '
French writers, and by those, only, even in the
A mora, is a circntmftance truly honorable to the j
American charafler. However Ameticans may
differ about fyitemg of politics -taxes—laws and
government, in the parties of the union, still it will
be found that no party can one moment give counte
nance to any American citizen who (hall, after
having taken an oath to support the constitution,
leave the United States and retsrn to it under a
foreign coramifiion, and armed with orders hostile 1
to the ftiips and trade of the union. The para- \ f
graph traufplanted into the Gazette of the United I ''
States, from the Aurora, vindicating monficur Bar- i 4
ney, is certainly a French campofttion. The idiom 1 a
betrays the counterfeit—" he determined upon de- j
pending on, his own individual exertions," &t j 1
" Pusillanimity of the executive"—" crooked po- j
Key," See—ail this is French. This ingenious I
French civilian is so fraternal as to fay •' our" go- "
vernment I here 13 a fifb that would prove ex- \ f
tremely deftraflive to the small fry, did he not raise !
[0 much aiud tn his motions as to give warning—— 6
here is alio a foolifh fifh, that to conceal ttfelf r
inns its head into the mud, and leaves the other ?
parts cxpofed to dete&ion. 1
c
As the American readers of the Anrora daily f
diminish from the just alarm which the Aurora v
dotftnnes excite, and as iti a little tinje the readers
of that paper will be rcduced to those who can C
swallow and digest French prineiples, it is humbly
recommended to the writers of that pleasant paper,
to fpai e themselves the labour of tranjlation, aiid to
give their remarks in French.
. a
Fsr the Gazitte ot the Uhitib Statis. t
Mr. Fsnno, > "
Mr. LOCCENJUS has thrown the gauntlet on h
the quelhon, <• whether a citizen has a right to di- *
vest htmfelf of his allegiance without the consent a
of the society, ot which he is a member f" si
I his question is not so well qualified as it ought
to have been; but in the reasoning he has rested the
ifiue on the point, » w!i S ;bct" tlie right to ex/a- ']
triatc is a natural right. t!
e In the complete and iovefiigation of"
a this fu jjcit, it will be-neceflarjr te take man up in
e mis fii It ertate, and in the prosecution of ii, I hope,
<* shall deraonftrably prove, that the arguments ad
rl vanced by our volunteer are tralv chimerical, and
. totally repugnant to t!ie natural rights of man.
i It is allowed by all modem writers on ethicks, on
e government, and on lie hius of nations, that man is
born free, and pufftfles all the natural rights, wliich
i ai-e known to exillin any compaift whatever. The
- ma teiiality of the mind is granted by the philofo
: pliers of the prcfent day, and the free agency of
t man 19 consented toby all parties, which free agen
cy is wholy dependent an unobflrußctl •oelition ; this
, volition resolves itfelf into felf interej\ ind felf love,
5 these are the two positive and fundamental princi
, p' es 'hat govern the anions of men in every fitua
s 'ion in life, these principles of the human mind are
liicr the immutable principles of truths they operate
. on fuciety, and to the happiness of man, like the
• K rsat gravitating principle, on inanimate matter. If
1 man in his primitive and unaffaciated (late, pnflefs
■ thofe-rights, it rests with him whether to ctnftgn or
| give up all of them or not, if he does, they mult
be po/it'tvely exprfftd and agreed upon, for they are
poli'ive f'ghti, therefore no negative teftsment can
1 annihilate a positive one: In as much as this right,
is not expreTed in the C(|mpa£t, it is reserved to
the conffituent. To allow for argument that the
individual may give up this present contested right,
(which common sense revolts at) there can even
then be lituations in which a citizen may be placed,
that would juftify him in expatriating himfelf, and
that all the rights he had delegated to the govern
ment, would revert to hircv, and be have again the
sovereign power in himfelf, as refpe&s himfelf, via.
1 he Lex Necejptatis, this law resolves itfelf into the
law of felf prefer vation, which is jultifiable under
ceitain eircumftaoces, not only in an individual,
but it is morally and politically right for a part of
a (late to dismember itfelf from the body politic ;
aifo according to Wtljius, and other reporters on
the laws of nations, the Lett Necejitatis operates
between nation axd natiou, as between men and men
in their Hate. Iu those compa&s where
citizen does not delegate this right iif terms
fpeciSe, it is retained—-For inltance, firft, bo one
pretends to deny hut what man is born free, and of
Co»rfe this right is inherent.'—Second, that he may
voluntarily give up this right to fopiety or Hot.— I
And thirdly, it is neither expressed nor i-nplied in
any part of the conflitution of the United States,
therefore it is refervsd.
1 his is fe ielt-evident it will scarcely admit ef
pi oof ; therelorea citizen may alienate himfelf at
ail times of tranquillity ; and when he has volun
taiily cut the ligature, he is Men exonerated from
the original covenant, and has the right of eithei
forming a new c»mpa&, or ingrafting himfelf iuto
lorn.- other Hock.
if truth u to be regarded in government as the
Unity of principles it> other sciences, then let the'
veil of usurpation and ignorance be drawn to the
general happmefs of man, and k-t the goddess of '
libei ty once mora ereci tier (landard and con'litute
one great and happy family among the different ua- .
tiens «f the earth.
I he Indian tribes to which Mr. I.occinius has
lefeiied irs, as evidence to the propriety of his po- '
tttion, iwttead ef referring us to the " worm eaten '
writings ps Grotius and Puffendorf," do not,
I conceive, dellrov ihe right of the individual \
expatriate himfelf, hut thij (fa&, it such] proves
he ignorance or the state of their society, which
0111 hero wueht not to retort to for the evidence of '
truth »r right. c
1 .lis doctrine of nan expatriation, is a brat c#n- 1
ceived by ncctffiry, brought forth by ufuipation,
and foftered by defpoiifm, but when this law of
neeeility ceaftfd, the shackles of power ought to P
have ceased also, and then man WjouUl have been
disenthral ed from this load of oppression, and he •
become once more an independent beiujr. In the •
next note, 1 fhalJ take up Vattell, and endeavor to 1
prove wherein lie flies his firlt principles, and trims "
to the Britilh government. C.
*)" Self interell is not to be understood in a limited 1
pecuniary feme here, but goes to &ow also the mental .
iatisfafliou experisnced in every art in life.
u
By this day's Mail. r
NEW-YORK, January 17.
An apology is made in the Aurora for Captain f
Barney's reversing the American colors on hoard the ]
Medusa. It is there laid to be a mijtake and soon e
redified. We are authorised to declare, that the flag
was reversed and placed at the top-mast head from to '
o clock in the morning to 4in the afternoon, during 1
a breeze, which made it conspicuous.
iNewTtri Minerva.]
txtraa of a letter from Cape Francois, dated Dec. 17, t
1796, to a gentleman in this City. ,
" 1 arrived here t'afe in a paflage of 18 days, but was
aftonilhed and diAreffed to find, that the profp.As .
which flattered before my departure were complctelyde- :
seated.. ihe admiriifiration are determined to take all
American cargoes, and nothiag can equal the distress F
et our eountrymen here. The commifiary declared to '
rae this morning, that he would have every American i
cargo that came. V\ r e fufier every species of altuft and
ili treatment; eommunicate his to our friends and
countrymen, and warn them against being concerned 1
in the contrail lately made by with the admini
itration, this is a cheat to get American property as
was the other ' (
Kefult of the tanvafs for the diftrifl of Duchefe f
County.
Brookß laao I
Bailey \
Majority for Brooks ao *
The brig Prudence, Capt. Grattan, from St. Thora
as s, loft three hands by the putrid fever, 14 days after
failing. Captain G. took every precaution to prevent
the reft of his men from taking the contagion, by de- i
Aroying their cloaths, fmoafcing tJie vcflfel, &c. and i
his endeavours we are happy to add, were crowned 1
wulnfuccefs. t
Ihe brig Dean was feea oflf the Hook on Sunday T
afternoon, Aanding towards several inward bound vef- »
fels. 1
From Pool', (N. L.) Marine Lift, Jan. ic. t
Arrived tchooner "Amphitrite, R. I. Still, from J
lurk a Iflasd, 40 days; 50 days ago left at St.Tho- J
mas s, schooner Isabella, V\ r . Higgiu6. Spoke in lat.
long. 69, fckooncr Nelly, ffm, Brown, from Nor-
f folk, bcand,'fo H'Oaniola, —in lat. 3j, long. »r, fpok
, ftiip Raihef, J. Racket, from Leghorn, bound to New.
York, out 36 days.
Arrived at this Port. Days.
j r, g Amiable Matilda, Williams, Rotterdam, 88
Schuylkill, Irving, Purto Rico, 42
( Sloop Rachael, Narton, Cape Francois, 24
( Captain W illfon, of the schooner Success, oa
, the 3H iiiftant, in lat. 34, 59, spoke the brig De
, light, of Boston, from Martinique, bound to Ed
enton, Johnj Perkins, matter, who informed him,
r that the day before he fell in with the f hooner
Friendship, of Washington, captain Joshua Pritts,
( in diftreft, wh», after taking the men and fame few
jhings on boird, immediately foundered. Lat. 4s,
■25, spoke brig Polly, of Salem, from Boston, cut
45 days, bound to Baltimore—Biu instant, spoke
the febooner Little Tom,, from St Bartholomews,
of and bound to Philadelphia, by ftrjsfs of weather
bore away for Norfolk.
According to a modern admeasurement, 'the ex
tent of continued buildings in London is thirty
five miles, two furlongs and 39 rods. There are
3®5 places devotion, and a computed million of
inhabitants.
A London paper fays, Stocks, notwithstanding
the intelligence from the Cape of Good Hope,
experienced a considerable depression sth Novem
ber. Cenfols wire for the moR part done at ce
7-Sths.
Barras has been proclaimed president of the Ex
ecutive DireiSory. We hope it will be i« his turn
to have the honor of iigning the general peace.
All the emigranasare ordered to quit the Prussi
an dominions. Madame Genlis is among the num
ber.
Coljuel Green is appointed lieutenant-governor
of the iflaad of St. Vincents.
General Pichegru is gone from Strafburg to <5-
verfheim. The Directory have enabled him to buy
the Abbey of Arbois, in the French Comte.
/ [Can. Gaz-2
From a LtmJn paper of the 10th November.
are sorry to announce the death of captaiM
Strangewayj, of the marines, who was wounded
in the gallant a&ion of the Glattoa with a French
Iquadron, lalt summer off the Dutch coast Th*
ball entered the upper part of his hip, and, being
deeply seated, could not poifibly beextra&ed with
out imminent danger. From the time of his re
ceiving the Wound till his death on Friday, he ex
perienced the molt excruciating torture. He ha*
been buried at Chatham with military honors.
The marriage of tire Prince ef Wirtemberg to the
Princess Royal will be privately solemnized in the great
Siloon at the Queen's house ; by the Archbiifcop of
Canterbury, alMed by the Bishop of London.
T he Spaniards have at length gravely fat down be
fore Gibraltar forgetting no douUt, the fatal 13th of
September, or that such thiugs still exist as Britith
hearts ef oak, and red hot balls.
FALMOUTH, Nov. 7.
Letteis were received here this day, dated Nov.
4, from his majelty'a (hip Glory of 98 guns, one
of admiral Thompson's fleet, Ufhant bearing E.
N. 20 leagues, which date, that the fqnadron had
captured a very fine corvette of 20 9 pounders, be»
longing to Richery's squadron, with her prize, a
brig laden with fait. From information of, the
crew, there is every reason to fuppofc that Riche
ly's fqnadron cant.ot be far off.
Arrived heie the 2dinft. the American fchooncr
Reliance, of Boftnn, John Seffurd, mailer, from
Bred, with English men as palfengers, who had
been carried into France. When (he left Brest,
there were 25 fail of men of war in that harbor,
chiefly ef the line, five of them 3 deckers, but
with yards and topmails ftruck,.and in 110 condi
tion for sea, occasioned by a of feamcn.
Men arc so fesree, their fleet havt not their compli
ment of any quality.
These palfengers did not hear any thing of the
intended invasion, until their arrival here, nor doe*
it appear that any preparations indicating such an
intention, ate going on at Brelt j the people in ge
neialthere seem very defirousof peace.
The Reliance on the eoalt of France fell in with
two Englifli fquadroßS, uader the command of Sir
John Warren and Sir Richard Strachan j the for
mer preifed a sailor out of her. /
Richery's deilination was never known at Brest
until the Englilh papers conveyed the intelligence
there of the devastations he had committed ■, they
supposed him to be gone to St. Domingo.
» November 15.
In the French army on the Lower Rhine, the
greatest discontent is said to prevail. General
BournonviJJe is Gated to hsve declared his intention
of resigning his command of the army of Sambre
and Meufe ; and Kleber is also said to have refufed
the appointment.
PLYMOUTH, Nov. 8.
Half past fix, P. M. Just arrived, the brig Mar
tha of Teigumouth, laden with fait, lately com
manded by Capt. Seward. She was taken by one
of Richery's fquadror. in the bay, and te-taken by
the fqnadron under the command of admiral Sir R.
Curtis. All her crew were taken out of her and
put on beard one of the French fhfps. She wa*
navigated to this port by some of the crew of the
Atlas, of 98 guns, Capt. Dod.
The prize mailer reports that he left the fleet, all
well, cruizing yesterday off Ufhant. A privateer
has beefi taken since Thursday—and ideas of fal
ling in with Richery's fqnadron were so strongly
entertained by admiral Curtis, that orders were is
sued in the fleet not to oarry [any lights during the
night. It should be observed, the corvette former
ly taken, left Rieheiy fteerir\g for Brest last Tttef
-4*-
TRENTON, January 17.
We have received a (Utement of tie Vote/ for
Representatives in Congrcfs from the countie* of
Eflex and Hunterdon, jmd of Burlington, excep
ting the township of Hanover—they are as folllow!
Jonathan Day;on 2397 Ebenerer Elmtt 990
Mark Thompfoa 1666 James Linn 956
Aaron Kitchel 1569 Jos. Bloomfield 947
James. H. Imlay 1526 William Ctane 826
Jame* Schurraan Joseph Cooper 753
Thos. Sinnickfotfi 137 a Thos. Lowrey 36#
John Condit 1244 William Helmi .95PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
P» the following Poji Roads, will he received until
thefirjl day of March next inclu/rve : j
1. FronvCharlefttm, S. C. by Jackfonboro' Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the Vlail
ar Charlifton every Tueiday and Friday by P. aM. and c
deliver it at Savannah the nctct Friday and Monday, by 8
A. M. deceive the Mail at Savannah ev*>v
Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednesday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Churlejloto the next Tuesday and Friday
byuoon. v
f*rof-ofals for this route -will be reteived by tbi poji-majler at ,
Savannah.
Zi FrornCoofahatchy to Beaufort once a week-—
Receive the niaii at Coofahatchy every Tliuffday by 6,
>. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
iurningy leave Beaufort every Friday fey 3, p. m. and arrive
at Coofahatchy 011 Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail cn this route will be r«-
•cived by the poli-maller at Beaufort.
Noto I. The Post-master General may aker the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails atuny time da
ring the continuance of the contrpds, he previouHy ftipu
latiag an adequate compensation for any extra expence
that may be occafioiied thereby.
* Note For every hours deLy (univoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
tract, the contractor shall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars shall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any per son making proposals desire an
alteration 6f the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, he must (late the alteration desired aitd the priee
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration.
Note 4. The contra&s are to be in operation ort the
firft day of April next and to continue unt<l the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pejl General.
General Post Office, >
Jan. 13,1796.3
Jan. 16. d6w.
" ADVLR riSEMKN'i.
Asa Bill is now depending before the Legislature of
Pennsylvania relative to unfatisfied warrants, a meet
ing of the holders of such claims Is to be
held at Mr.Dunweody's on Tuesday evening the 17th
inft. at fit o'clock, iu order th it a memorial on the
occasion may be prepared and laid before the House.
Janujry 16 *1
A Pointer found.
Any person having loft a small POINTER PUP
PY about a fortnight since, may have him again by
proving property and paying charges. Apply to the
Printer.
Januiry 10 «
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a Urge aflortment of'lV ARR ANT iiD
WAT CHES, eotififtiug of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with of superior
workmSnfhip and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd fcjcwell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the naowth, and plain Silver Watches;
eight day & chamber Clocks ; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty ho»r, brass
works, <&e.
Decembet 11, dun
City ot Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTERY, No. 11,
FOR JHE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THH
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 10,000 dollars, & J
dwelling-houlu, 5 ei(h 30,000, are 5 ,00 °
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & csfh 10,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto »,000 & earti 5,000 lo,uoo
1 cafli prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are - 10,000
io do. I,too - - 10,000
50 do. JOO - - 10,000
00 do. too - - 10,000
too do. jo - - 19,00 a
4JO do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 10,00 V
15,3ti0 do. 10 - 150,000
16>739 Prizes.
35,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notts, securing payment in either mousy
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be reeeived for
any nurhber not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery wfll afford an elegant fpceimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs are already fclrSed for the entire
fronts on two of the public fqtiares ; from these prawings
it is proposed toereel two centre and four corner baildisgs,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be creeled within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prize? will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhed ; and any prize* for which foTtimate
numbers, aie not produced within twelve months after the
drawing i> closed, are to be confideredas given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole bufiftefs in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
khe real fecuritres given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty tour gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commissioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduousta(k
second time on behalf ef the public ; a fuflicient num
;jr of these having kindly accented, it is hoped that the
riends to a National University and the other federal ob
je&s may continue to favor the design.
Ey account* received from the difterent parti of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing wfll speedily commenie, ami that the care and
caption unavoidably ntccffiry to k*fure a fafe disposal of
tlit tickets, has rendered the injur; fufpeufion indiipenlabk.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colemhia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore i of Peter Oilman, Boflon :
«f John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
ferry. c»
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school on Mon
day the 31ft inlt. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his-
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wcdnefday, ai'sd Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen irom 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the fame days. , n
In addition to a number of new eorillioßS, he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season. •
For term*, &c, enquire at his houle, N0.134» Market
ftreet.
OA. 17. s tthf
.Bank of North-America,
January 2, 1797.
At a meeting of the Directors this day, a Dividend ot
Six per Cent, was declared for the la!t half year, which
will be paid to the Stockholders or their reprefsntatives,
at any time after the 10th inlUnt.
By order of the Board.
dti6th JOHN NIXON. President.
C A U T I O N.
WHEREAS very Urge and heavy debts are justly
ijar and owing from meiTrs. Blair M'Clenachan an'd
Patrick Meore, of the city of Philadelphli, merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Glenacban and P.
Moore, and from Blair M'Cler.acban in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the all the
joint a. well as Separate property of the laid Gen fle
mc#, is, and ought to b«, liable. And whereas
it « clearly and fatisfaiiiorily ascertained, that mi>.
Blsir M'Clenachan,' of the said firm, has conveyed
away to mr. 'John H. liuflon, h-is fon-i*-law, to his
daughter, niifs M'Clenachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable real estates,
as well as ooiilidcrable personal property, in the city
and to*nty of Philadelphia, in the county of Laacaf
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a views as it is apprehended, to de
feat/ the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts. —
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whomfi."-
ever, against the pttrchafe from the laid grantees, or
either of them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal property, as the molt vigorous meifures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to.
the jurit demands of the Creditors.
By «rd«r of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitzjimons,
Philip Nicklin, I
Jfaac '/barton, /■ Committee.
William M'Murtrie, 1
Samuel IV. Fijber, J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. 20th.$
7TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all persons against purchaQug from the
granteesof Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of
large, reel and pei fonal estates Ue conveyed a\yay to
his fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upon thefubjedl by a general and
numerous meeting of the cieditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore at of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confidod in the fubferibert by
those creditors ; a step which it would have been a
breach of'duty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very iiatcment of the fadt therefore must dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindictive." It originated in a defir* to feourc
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of" bis just debts. It was fan&ioned by the
advice oi council as a measure ntttflary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advernCcment has been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjuftiliable conduct, not to the iub- 1
fcribers who have merely pufalifhad the truth is |
terms as mild as the fad would admit, and who
meaa to ixveftigate in a high court of juilice the
validity of those purchases of which Mr. M'Clc
naehan fa confidently speaks.
The ftibfcribers therefore are bound by a
of d«ty to the creditor* in general to repeat their
emtion against puruhaliug of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it is a
pnrchafe from any other persons (if such there be)
to wham Mr. M'Clenachan may have made fimllar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS, H
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
F WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W.FISHER.
P'uAad. Dee. a I, 1796.
' (PT Those printers who have been requested to
publifii the firft Caution, arc t publtth this
also.
Walhmgton Canal Lottery,
' NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has autliorifed
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
, two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpole of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, froM th
, tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
. The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
| Viz -1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, ao,opo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
; .TiSKST}
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
. 10 ditto 400 4,000
, 10 ditto 100 1,000
55 ditto 50 1,750
J750 ditto II 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 16,1.50
5850 Prizes, *75,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
[ 17500 Tickets, atTcn Dollars, - 175,000
: gjp Tiie Comniifiioners have taken the Securities re,
: quired by the aforefaid act for the punctual payment ol
the prizes.
. The drawing «f this Lottery will commence, without
. delay, as soon as th* Ticket* are fold, of which timely
notice will be givep.
e Such prize, as are not dseanded in fix months after the
, drawing is fini&ed, Aall be confidtred as relinquifhsd for
t the benefit ®f the Canal, »nd appropriated accordingly.
1 (SignedJ NOTLEY YOUNG,
f DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
f Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMA-S LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit el Walhicgton, Feb. li. $
For Sale,
By the Subicribers —In Pi:NN-STKEET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by ihe Eagle. i
WILLI NO S & FRANCIS. ,
. Nov. 30 u '^ : ! J
Le Breton, \
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, Sate Dcntift to the ]
King and Royal Family of Franco, member 'of the i
Coiicge and Academy of Surgeons at Paris, I
Keeps a complete afibrtmont of evetv thing necefiary ■
to be used foHlhe
Prefer vation of the Mouth and Teeth. :
Patent Minoral Teeth,.and Human it. Ivory Teeth ; ,
Dcntrifice is powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for ,
iweetening the mouth and prel'erving the teeth—he
alio furnifhes lirufhei and lbi't Sp. N t Cb.
lives in Chefnut-ttreet, No. 135, abeve
Fourtli-ilreet.
November 26.
'twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber 011 the 513 d Oistob4r,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 11 years
old J about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a raked green
coat, with a gtcaD velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
'a fiHped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is prpbatle he may change
his name and dress. He has been aceuftomeu t© driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for securing him so that the fublcrifeer may get him
again, and if brqught home all teulor.able charge* paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sea/on,
And fed on clover Kay at the Subicribers place, li
njles on the Bristol Road, where good ilabling is pro
vided, and great care will be taken of them
v William Bell.
Nov. 23. mwfawmtbtf.
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opeireu the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEIf HOUSE in the I
city of Philadelphia.
The Subfcriprion Room will be furnifhed' with all the
daily papers publifhedin Philadelphia, Nsw-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, togather with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Frcnch Liquors; togebiier with the ulilaj refreibmenta,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being acoommodated with
the choicest of Wuiea, Spirituous I.iqucrs, and the aloft
approved Malt Liquors fromLoodon and orher breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and eariieft
productions of the Season.
Large and fiuall Fat ties, or Grtgle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with BreaUfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours null convenient to thtn.lelves—a cold Collation
tegslarly kspt for £onveuUncy, the Bill of rare tu be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rotms will be completely furmftijd, and
the utmost attention paid to clean] in sfs, and every other
icquiHte.
0" Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friendt., and the Public at
lar 3c; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfeK that nothing on his part fcall be wanting to pre
fer ve that patronage with whish he has been so diil'iaguifh
ingly iionored.
PliiUdetphia, April 19. mwl
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Maaiufaflory, Gtuate
in a tooveuient part of the city ; the works almoll new,
( on an entirely original confti u£tioa f and built of the heft
' materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
| who wiili to purcliale, are requcllcd to apply at No 273,
; South Second Street. September 13. t : f rt
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary 9
Adjoining the Public Square, MarketSflftet.
T. SWANN
RETURNS bis sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his refidenco in thio JCity, and
j flatters himielf that ihe ftuxefs of his effoits, in the numerous,
' obdinate and dangerous dtfeafes in Horses, in which he has
Ivbecn coufulted, together with his moderate charges, will fc
lure iheif future favors and recommendation.
. He t\ow begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his Ipacious and commodious prtrniits, ere&cd for the
j purposes above described aie open ioi the reception of pupils
I of either lex, who with to in the Art of Ridings
j and (Jie light method of governing tkeir horses, so as to ride
I them with cafe, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
! carefully and expeditk>u<ly biofce, tor every purpose, and
i mad/c obedient tot he will ot the riders ; the natural powers
whicti are (hut upin the*, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of a&ion which,providence has io bounti
fully bcflowed ori than.
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inllitutiou has never been (jneftion
ori, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
rtud willmanifeft, and T. Swank as the ftrfl eiiahliftier of
the veterenary art, solicits and relies upon the fuppott or tha l
public (which he is ever an>aous in to enable him to
biingit to perfe&ion. Tin - idea of a lublcripiioa for rtwt
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish to
promote the inftitution —the amount of each fubfcripiioil to
be returned by services in any ot the (jcpjrLmenis he pio.feiJe*,
agreeable to the rate of charges itatcd in his nand bill. Such
j'liblci iptioa is no w open, and the ftgna'.uros of many rcfpeiV
ablc gentlemen alieady obtained.* He therefor? injorms his
friends and such Ladies aad gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he (halt in a few days tak<-
the liberty of waiting uponthtmand folicking thfix support
and prot'ftion.
N B. Horfss sre properly prepared for those Ladies and
wiffi to be inUrutled.
Nov. 5. tth&f.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the ease aod convenience of 1 merchants
in general ; but particularly ft»r those who are ex
tenlively concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the course of the whole year,
for each month fnparatively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
■ the mode n»w in use, of feletfting the bills due in
anch month from the promiscuous entries of federal
months.
To which is prefixed,
At able lhewing the number of days from any day
any tr.onth, to the fame day in any other month.
Fhiladelfhia, printed for ar.d fold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January 2. tawtf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
XTOTICJS is hereby given, that pryyofais prA 1 be rt'+
1 ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Tr«aiurv
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for the supply of all rations which may he
for the use of ihe United States, from the fir ft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the placcs and within the districts here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Pacfque li*c; at Sandu&y Lake, and on Sanuufkyj
River ; at Detroit; at Michilimackin/ic; at Fort-Frauk
linj at Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fdrt-Hamiltoi: 5
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-JefFerfon ; at Greiivilie; at
Picque Town and Lorannes Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Maflac ; at any place from Fort MalTac
to the south boundary of the United State* on the river
Mifufippi; at Fort Knox ;at Ouiatanon.
If ittppiies (hall be required lor any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such fupplits ihali be fur
milled at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed ori
between the United States af»4 the ContraAor.
The rations to be supplied' are to connft of the sol s
lowing articles, viz.
One pouiwi two ounces of bread «r flour.
One pound two ounces- of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill t*f rum, Urafcdy rr whifltey.
One quart and half a of felt."}
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( hund . cd rati , jn(l
1 wo pounds or Soap, C 1
One pound of Candles, j
The rations are to be furnifhed infach quantities, as that
rfiere Ihali at all times during the said term, be fu&cient
for the consumption of the troops nt Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* in
advance, and at etch of the other polls, for the term of
at leak three months in advance, in good an d v r holefome
provisions,ifthcfame shall be required. It is to be unj
der flood, that the Centra&or isto beat the tx*cnte and
rifle of ifjuirgthe supplies to the troops at each poifc, and
that all loiTcs fuftaincd by the depredations of an enemy, or
1 by means of the troops of the ijnited Stales, {hall be paid
for at the price of tJae articles captured or djftroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
| radters, and the ecrciSc&te of a officer, af
ceftaifiing the <wrcumftance>> of the lose, and the ameuirf
of the article* for which oompenfaeion fhali be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treafufy.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKED IK, No. 64,
South Second-jlrtxt.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably 'o an Aft of
the Legilhiure of Pennlylvaiaia, ©affed dming ihe !*.fc
session, for building a Sione Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough ol Heading, in the County <>f
-berks. Dollars*
1 Prhceof 20,000 Dollars - ao,ocia
1 do. of 10, coo do. * - 10,000
3 do. of s>poo do. ogo
4 do. of «,000 do. - 8,000
ao do. of i,©oo do. - 2c,0c0
59 do. of 530 da. - , 19,500
80 do. of 2co do. - - i6,cco
400 do. of 100 do. - - ac.ooo
300 do. of $0 do. , -
1 do. of 500 do. to be paid the pofTcf- >
for ©f the iirlk drawn W J
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid possessors ;
of the five lalt drawn nos
9,400 do. o 15 do. ; - 141,000
10,054 Prises 500, coo
10*046 Blanks
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
Afi Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
funlhtd, upon the demand of a poiltijor of a fortunate
picket, fubjeft to a dedu&ioo of twenty per ceu' The
Drawing will comtnenue as loon as ti»e Tickets are diipof a
i of, or perhaps sooner. of Which public notice will be gjj.sri.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, IV'tlliar.i Li r :l:an 9
JoJ'eph Hie/let Japies Diemer, Thomas Du:das t
Jame r May, John Otto* John Keim, Daniel GrueJK
Sebajliun Miller, Commissioners,
Reading, May the 9th, 179 ft
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
above office, where the earliefl iniorrr.ation of the draw
ing-os the Walhington i*!o, a, and Patterion l.ottery's,
are received, and oneck books for examination and regif.
teringare kept.
7. aawtf
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE>
No. 63 South Third the national new Bank'
SAMUEL M t'HAUNCIiS and JOHN VAN REED)
h*ve entered into co-partnerfliip, lindef the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the .buftnefs of Brokers.
Conveyancers and Commiirion merchants. They buy and
fell on oommiffion eVery fpedes of llock, notes of hand,
bills ol ejichange, houses a|i.d lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds of
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
difpacch accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
moll corrail niam»er, Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a lh.'.re of the public favor ; they «re deter'
mined to endeavour to deleave it.
N. B. The utnioft feerecy obforved.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REEL)
Vhilad. Aiiguft a 7, 1796. n-.&wtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street•
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale-—9
Check Bcok for examination—and prizes paid ia
fehe late lottery.
Cheek Books kept for examination and r"»iftering, for
the City of \Valhington, No. a, and Patteion Lotteries,
both ef which are now drawings—information whei'e
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undraWi*
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New
. Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubfciioer solicit* the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to pur chafe or fpll Bank Stock,
1 Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Lands #
1 See. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
\* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery f#r
, sale atTenDollsrs each, which will be drawn early ia
the Spring.
I Wm. Blackburn.
Pliltidelphia, Augu[l 18, 1796. mth
1 k'iirT»Bi l ii.ini«^t»-.3rw*~rrw~-~
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO
—No. ng —
CWES»iU T-S r a E k T.
[Price Eight Dolors p*r Annflm.J