of tijc and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
'1 UMSF.& I 550. J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
( —Edward Fox, No. ss,
MinJbA rrom-ftrcif,
J Afternoon —Footman & Co. No. 65
C South Front-street.
( Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Citv
Tucfdavs U(flion ' 73 south Front-street.
- ) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
V. 183 High.street*
Wednesday \ A '' er T°"r7 Pe ' fr 3cnfoQ » N °* 74
' south Third-ftrcet. ,
Thursday i F" re noon_Edward Fox.
( Afternoon—John Connelly.
Fr\'ay j Forenoon—William Shannon*
J Afternoon— John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
White Sugar.
1401 boxes ■> of very fuperiorquality now difcharg»
7 ' lihHs- \ ing from the ihip Hamburgh Packet,
atWatout Street wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nicklin £3° Co,
N. B.
TH£ SHIP
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain', Mailer,
For Sale, or Charter.
Au 4 . eotf
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP / ;
A Light W A GGGN almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harsefs (English collars) has never
been uiefl—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven year* »!d~ and a
new cluir. with a fatting top Jivii r
Enquire No. 331, Market-Ureet.
August 24- diw
Trild D YIS Pt'BLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street.
Letters and Conversations, •
Between several Young Ladies, on improving and in
teresting fubjefls.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame de Camion,
with alterations and improvements,
Printed on fine paper, and neatly bound,
Price one foliar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales of extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which * harrow up the foul," and
which it would b* for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to fb
licit notice, where in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the hounds ot real life, the proper, b?cauf:
tlegar.t and natural dignity and importance ot the Female
eharallcr iscxhi ited in an interesting) oint rff view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence. I
The publiftier was fomuch pleafedwith the peru
sal, that he yvas periuaded he should do a pleasing.
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. .'ng-nfl i4-n-» s aw
I Hirf DAY VV A fUM.I nLD,
And for fie hy THOMAS DOBON, at th«
Stone House. No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED
Confiding of a variety of Mifccjlantous Pieces for
the inftruilion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS —SixVolumeshandfomely prmtedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
' The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally esteemed one of th: most valuahle pub
lications th t can be put into the hanc'i of young
persons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young id'a how t" (hoot.
To pour the frefh inftrucSinn o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
Augutl 24. mwt'4w
""COMMISSIONERS' SALLS,
TBI Qomrniffioners of the counties of Ly
coming and have eiven
■notice that ihcy ihtend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
Scptem 1 «.• next.
f}T The different printers in this city will
render an eflentia! service to a great number of
individuals by pubbfbing this notice.
Aug. 13,
" ' FOR SALE,
BRET AtNES in cases ;
German Checksin do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8 \
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in carcs, &c. &c.
George Pennock,
103, High-Strc)t.
July 5- 3*w
NOTICE.
w (
IF Thkdt o*Hj\ra, who some years fincekept
School at che Nine Bridges Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
jjarfhal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive iu
terefting information.
Atgujl 4. . mw&f4~w
~ THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEREBY notice, that they have disposed
of the property afligned to them for the securing
the payment of the note , acceptances, and en
dorsements given by Edward Fox, for the use
ofthefaid James Greenleafj and the holders of
such notesjacceptances, and endorsements, ?Te
hereby notifyed that the fubferihers will fettle
■with them for the amount of their refpeflive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the icth day of Otfober next;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms qf align
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second flreeti (the Dock-street
tide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
clock every day, Sundays excepted
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
\ John Miller, Jun.
John AJbley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, AinguQ 18, 1797. d
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, AUGUST 28, j 797
This Day Publilhed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM 'YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price Zflu of a fhllar y
Observations on lertain Documents
Contained iu No. V and VI of
" History of the United States for
t.bc ytar 1796,"
in whici'i tb'*' on ak'ik (n sruCw'tATtOf. agsiuC
' ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secrxtauy of the Txeascr, is FULLY
refuted.
WRITTEN BT HIMSRIf.
This publication presents a concise statement
ef the base means pradifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters of thofc
persons who are co.ifidered as hostile to their difor
garizing
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, on the fub
je6l of the documents alorefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibili'ty of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the rtfult-of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter and his alTociates to eitort money.
£3" A difeount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favfcr ot wholefaic purchafcrt, for
cash. Orders to be addrefledto .Mr Young.
Aucrufl 25. ,
The Norfolk Vlail STAGE.
T IIS. Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of SecoHd'and Ai"ch Streets, ip
Philadelphia, rv ry Tuefdai, Tburfday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the irorning ; arrives at Do.
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, anil on
tke morning ot the fourth day ti.e passengers find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet loavo.s-tyor.y* f-jr Nwth-i-p n T'lty.
every Tuefdiy, Thurllay and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this fefry for Philadelphia, every
MonJay, Wcdnefday and Friday ;'putsup at Snow
Hill th: firft night, at Dpver the Id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftanee on this route, between Philadelphia
and, Norfolk, is 3o miles less than on any stage route
between those places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietor*
wJHngly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that h ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road* in America.
Augult ii. dim. eotf.
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, and for sale by
B. fJ. Bohlen,
A large ajfortment of Jint French Cambrics,
Platilias kuflia mdDutch fail cloth
Brittannias Writing, pod, and print-
Rolianes ing paper
Brown Holland Du'ch calf skin«
Checks, and Itripea Prime madder '
Ticklenburga Shell'd Barley
Oznahui gs Looking glalfes
v\ hitr (heetinga Hollow glafa
Slates
Brown rolla Coffee milla
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and Hmw knives
Black and whitelacei' Tovs assorted in boxes
BeA Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira. Wine
Inly 14. m&thtf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. It6,South
Front street,
Hvfon
Hyson Skin ( TEAS
Yo'ing Hyfen C
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 3J feet detp,
the lot 1 to feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot; to a thirty feet w;ide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The House is not plastered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is luitable for a large Manufailory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
pofleffion will be given.
Apply to No. 111, Chefnut-Street.
Aug. 11. cod4t.
IMPORTED
In tho (hip America, James Ewing, master, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Platilias '
Ticklenbnrgs
Coarse Linens
iTapcs
Looking Gjafles 7 • r
Glass Tumbler, j ,n cafei
ro»' sale at
George Pennock.
August 14. 3aw
Young Hyson Tea.
40 cherts of a fupcrior quality—Also,
100 ,do. of Hyson,
Imported in the Woedrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferihers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June 21. eotf
Health-Office, Philadelphia, 'Jth June, 1797.
i" H E Board of Health offer to rent out the NEW
CITY HOSPITAL, usually called The Wig
iv am. 1
It may be occupied as a Tavern, for which there
are excellent accommodations. Ihe person taking
it 11111 (I be capable and willing to a<& in the capaci
ty of a Steward; ki cafe a contageous"djfeafe in
the city, should at any time render it neceiTary to
make ufc of the premises as a Hospital. It cannot
therefore b« let for any limited time—and the red
oainted frame building is to be reserved. Froptfali
in writing will be received at this office, slating
what rent will be allowed under the foregoing tyr
cumftanccs. Noncjieed ap]sly without being abje
to produce the best recommendations. '
JOHir MILLER, Jun.
Chairman of the Beard of Health.
July 8. S
By John Fenno, N°- up Cbefnut Street.
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jud raceived, by Wm. Grilp IT bs,No. i ' 7,3duth
Second-(ireet, k frtft, f urp i yo f
Genuine \hal/tm f) f J-foney,
A «*d, e late &tM:. H,ll'
f ("V*" knowledge a Botanilt rr r » eMim
the appellor, of-*,
aoofidered id England as 4 certain abov,
complaints; it is alio of fmgular ufficaey in tin
Hooping Cough,
It ma,' afro be had retail nf W. A. Stokes,No
6t, jouth Second street, an ; T . Sritr, ec, Ncw
llreet, mi bottles at 75 cents ;ath.
Wm, Griffith* having oSf ctved thc h r[ _
fed of thc medicine, (fever?] ca ( eio f curts hav .
ing come within his own kno vledge) and the vreai
demand' .or it has induced him to order a larctf
fupp y, * part of which he K, B j u st received. ,
Augnjl 3. Jawjw ,
A Cook wanted. f
A who tinderfl4 the business andV
can bring e ood recommendsti Wl) m jyfi, )( ) employ/
and receiv. generoui wages by Jpp |. ln , at No> 6 ,»
15. ajt
. Wanted to purchase,
A pair of flout, well broJ S Horses, yoUng and
fcuni Enquire at Mr. Oelkrs' Hotel, Che'u»t
flreet.
Application rauft be ma if. immediately. ;
Augujt i» *3/
Infurancc Cmpanyof Rearth America• ''
Stockholders in this connnny are he r <-'-
* by '""led,, that, mtrftiir 1# the f.&h
tlteir Charter, anfl at it il 01 a
" Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
proprietors of Six Thousand Shares, and up
warcs, a general meeting of the Stockholders
will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
d*y the 45th day oi September next, at 11
o'clock, a.m. for the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Direftion ; and taking into
consideration such.Regulations or Bye Laws as
may be presented in conformity with the Char
ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
J"'y 20■ w&ftSa;
The Partnerfliip,
UNDER thc firm of FREEMAN tsf Company,
is difiolved by mutual consent. All persons
having; any demands against tke said House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to i he House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
carried on, at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street.
jiufrufi 7 t eod4w
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS hit friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 129, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. xoj North Front, be
tween Arch and Race streets:
July «»■ 2aw4w
Ro/s y Simjon,
HAVE FO* SALI—
Hogsheads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C. Barrels.
A small parcel of nice cocoa in bags
few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Teneriffec wine, old ami in Madeira pipes
An ii.voice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the package >
A few hampers best Englift cheese.
July 27. dtft
Window Glass,
Of Superior (Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF rARIOUS SIZES,
From Bbv6to 19 by 14,
By the finale Box or Quantity, may be had at the
S ore of the Subfcribcrs, corner of Arch and Front
ftreet.
James C. Iff Samuel W. Fisher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797. 'jiwmwftf
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have for sale at their Jlore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer tzf Son, Pine-Jlreet Wharf,
' A Quantity of
Madeira Wines
In pipes and half pipes
adeira Walnutsand Citron, lately imported
in thc fchooncr Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Also,
25 Puncheons, second and third proof, IVeft-
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy
They have constantly on hand and for sale,
French Burr and Coun'ry Mill Stmrt of various
fixes, and a general affortmeht of Bouhiug Clothe of/
thc best quality, both American and Foreign ma/
nufailure. Thc former having proved,'£rom se
veral years experience of a number of millers in
different parts of the United States at lead equal,
and in many iaftances superior to the European
Cloths, we hope the manufadurer, Robrw Daw
son, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent and exclusive right of making and
vending fSoulting CUtbt on his improved plan for a
number of years, and they are ibid only by him-
in Lancaster, state of Pennsylvania, and by
the fubferibers ill Philadelphia.
June 14 d
This Day is Published; s
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and thc
other Booklellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents.
Elegant y printed on Wove paper, and Hot*
prejid.
By John fhompfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several 9tates with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the promiient features of eaeh Constitution, and
claifing together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of administration ; with,
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of th£
• United States.
Dedicated'to the People of the UnitedStatcs.
N. B. Q. few Copies printed on hb inferior pa-,
per, at 3-4thsof a dollaV.
February 6 mwf
Imported inthefIiipMANCHKSTER,
Benjamin S'hewell, MafttrJ
Trom Bourj eaux, and for sale by the fublcriber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
B&orddaUx Brandy
Irilh market clartt in cases I Entitled to
Modoc wine, in do. f" Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
A PERSON OF INGF.NT'ITY, lately arrived
from Europe, vvifhes to here a place in
the quality of a Dire&or of a Glafs-houfc, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular means for thc
confirm- I ,ion of the kilns, pots, £cc. and pofft;ffing
likewiftr the articles used in the Glass houses of
E gland and France, having worked a long while
in most of them. Every exertion will be made to
render the manufactory delerving'.of public appro*
bation—He, who wifiws to speak to hihi,wilf find
him kt No. 475 Front-ftiett.
August 14. . « 4t
F>r iale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
OITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal-
O nut and Fifth streets, fronting the Sfate-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut flreet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an h:lf on Fifth street ; there are ft
prelent two'fmall two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thcrton. - t
Alft, for Sale,
Two thrte story BricV Houfei
ith convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saffafras
streets, containing in front on Water street flf
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa€lor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. T)his
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for calh. For further information apply to tbe
printer.
July -jr.. m&wtf
The Subjcriber has for Sale,
A large aflortment of India Mullins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irilh Linens and Sheetings, well
assorted
A box ef Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes ef fine Spices, eotaining Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
Edft India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
Augujl 11. . 3«wim
Cedar Shingles.
THE fublcriber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles cf a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars p»r thousand. .
William Hallow ell,
No. 193 North Thirdjlreet.
July i 1 }. 1 . eoiatx
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a& of Congrcfs «f the
- United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the aßth day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which fha.ll be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paffengets, the several dutie? and
rates following, to wit :
For and upo,n every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Cl ariot, Ii dols.
upon every Post Chariot, la dols.
upon every Post Chaise, IV dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols. ,
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriage!, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glades or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med posts and tops with steel springs, 6
dols. ;
a poll four wheeled Carriages, with wood-.
en or iron springs or jacks, 3 dols. -
uponfcurrlcles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3'dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
u on other two wheel topcarriages, 3'dols.
upon two wheil carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, I dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed posts and '.ops, and resting up
on wooden spars, a dols.
The Collectors ef the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftrifl of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September next, for
the put pcfe of receiving the duties'on Carriages, at
No, 117, in Race or Saffafras-ftreet, in the City of
Philadelphia; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County ef Montgomery ; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all persons poneffed of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed tq them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi.
hefs of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than ao gallons, at
the Tame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised te grant such licences.
William nichols,
Infpe>2or of the Revenue of the firft sur
vey of the Diftri*sl of Pennsylvania.
Office of Infpedlion at ") j llu
Philadelphia, jd August, X 797. i '
Excellent Eourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases
just received, and fer Sale by
Rundle Leech,
-iug. zl, jjwrtf
'} '
Philadelphia. 25 tk y:, j 7 j.
NO PICE is hereby given, that fr;aratf pro
pofah with felled cov •.sv. ilif'c received
It r'.y dffict until the <'cve'. 'i c'iy oi Si; :<rfrJ>er
next, by iontr,ic.
tides for the use of the' Army of the.Unitci
States in the year 1798.
First Contrail for
8 Sergeants coats ' 1
a Musicians, do.
10 Sergeants vests Dragoons.
126 Privates coats
126 Privates vests J
64 Sergeants coats
32 Musicians, do.
96 Sergeants vests
191 Woolen overalls Artillerift#
194 Lines overalls !> &
936 Privates coats Engineers.
936 do. vests
1872 Wooifcn ov«raII»
1872 L'.nen do;
144 Sergeants coats
72 Mufidans, do.
216 Sergeants vests
432 Linen overalls
432 Woolen do. Infantry.
• 893 Privates coats
1892, ilo. vests
3784 Woolen overalls \(
3784 Linen do.
ift Central, for 1288 Sergeants (hirt*
xi 816 Privates do.
12600 Socks
id Cototra<£l, for 172 pair leather bwhe*
3d Contradl, for 271 pair boots
4600 pair {hoes, No. 1 *
8000 pair do. No. 2
4th Contract, for 1032 Artillerists and Engi
neers hats
* 108 Infantry do;
J«6 Dragoon caps
The whole to be delivered at the city of Phila»
delphia, viz.
One fourth on or before the Ijtb day 0/ Fe
bruary next.
One fourth »n or before the 15th day of A- 1
pril next.
T he remaining half on or before the ijth day
of June next.
The articles are to to such pat
terns as (hall be direfted If the Secretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be made as feon as the article*
(hall be delivered, and parted infpeiflion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Punvyor.
eotnthSep.
To Masters and Pilots bringing up Vejfclt
from Foreign Ports to this City. ,
"\T7Hereas sundry infringements have lately bee*
VV made on the laws of this (late for the pre
venting pestilential or infe&ious diseases, either
from ignorante or inattentios thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publilh the following ev
tracts from the laws of 2ad April, 1794, 71b aa4
Bth fedians;
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794;
ExtraS of an a3for //curing the city and port
0/ Philadelphia from the introduSion of pesti
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enafted, that «very
matter or captain of any (hip or vessel coming from
fca (vessels actually employed n the coaftijig trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdiflion of Pennsylvania,(ha I cause hisfhip
or vessel to be brought to anchor, or otherwise flay
ed in the dream of the river Delaware, oppofit* to
the Health-Office 011 State-Ifhnd aforefaid, aud
there to remain until he (hall have duly . btained 11
certificate or bill of heal h from the Resident Phy
sician. And it, previsufly to obtaining fuc|i certi
ficate or bill of health, any mafler or captain (hall
fuffer his (hip or vessel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hall land, cause or fuffer to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
or certificate, he (hall negltdi or refufe \to deliver
the sam- to the Health-Officer, such mafteror cap
tain (hall forfeit ana pay, for each and every such
offence, the fumof five hundred dollars.
And the captain or matter of every (hip or ves
sel (hall fendafafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and (hall in like manner
convey him back to the Htalth-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
ic making such examination, or in rase any subse
quent examination by the Health Officer or Con- '
fulting Physician, agreeably to the diredlieris of
this a<S, the mailer or captain (hallexpole or caule
to be cxpofed to the search of the Resident Physi
cian, or of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
(hip or vessel, and (hall present to his view each
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and (hall also true and fatisfa&ory answers mako
to all such questions as the Resident Physic ian, &c.
at the time of examination (hall alk relative to the
health of any port or place from which the Ihip or
vessel failed, or has finoe touched at—tlie number
of persons on board when the (hip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken on board, and vvhc»
and whererefpe&ively—what perfoss on board
f they have been during the voyage, or (ball, at
the time of examination, be infe&ed with any pes
tilential or contagious difeafe—>and what is the prs»
sent (late and condition cf the persons on board
with rtfpcft to their health or diseases. And if
any mailer or captain (hall refufe to cxpofe as aforo
aid, to the search qf any of the officers.aforefaid,
n if he (hall conceal any fuk person, or in any other mum
per deceive the proper officers aforefaid in bit
uch captain or matter, for every such offence, fhali
forfeit and pay the sum of »ive hundred do»-
lars.
Sect. 8. And if any person or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) (ball
go on board any vessel, before the matter thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
direded, every person so offending, (hall pay the
um of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS.
IT being absolutely ilecelfary that the foregoing
fedlions (hould be punctually complied with, the
subscriber," in compliance with his duty, mutt ex
ait a rigorous observance of the (amc, or else be
under the necessity of putting, the laws in force.
W>. AX.LF.N, HealU, Officer if tU
Port *f Philadelphia.
July 14. d£vr
[Volume XII.P R I CF.S OF STOCKS,
Philadelphia, llth Aug. 1797,
t per Cent. 16fi
$ per Cent. 10/4
Deferred 6 per Cent. 13/4
feANK United States, I % per ct. advance.
■» "enofylvania, ' 30 do.
■ North America, 46 do.
Infurince Co. N. A (hares 40 do.
Pertnfylvania, par
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days par
■ at 60 days 65
" at 90 days 6a
Amfterdum, per guilder 40
■ " '■ ■ 90 days 42
WASHINGTON LOTTERY, No. 11.
List or Prizes apld Blanks.
»i6th day's Drawing—Aug. 11.
No. Vols. fro. Dots. No. Dolt. No'. Dots.
310 10 12973 25365 379*8
435 14143 45* to 38148
685 314 16004 10 .141
>943 iS4 10 605 386 10
1268 756 84* 25 827
6'«3 15178 10 4768* 39157
" 4734 4.17 813 415 ro
951 606 813 10 657 lo
5154 16119 29116 49376
244 620 5 01 518 JO
449
649 496 . 30156 41734 10
728 739 10 BSS 10 839 10
/ 860 ro 931 jiißß 25 875
6350 18295 3°l 10 435J4 IO
482 10 449 734 44472
7634 *Bo 32041 10 5*5
669 928 33: -»o 601
856 20 19336 362 966 10
925 39° 426 993 '<»
8238 472 953 10 46310
304 654 10 33354 10 593 10
607 10 *Ol9l 10 369 10 £l7
703 10 414 10 454 15 878
9'74 *35 34063 lo 918
633 281 10 230 47414 50
800 10 60® 271 471
1044!) 21041 403 10 016
675 « 999 10 35348 10 934
774 /11836 10 768 10 48291 10
953 23898 10 36380 10 551
$.1761 24804 479 i* 671
817 915 639 10 796 10
12027 10 969 86l 4961*1
223 25094 ic 945 -IO 779
448 l» 317 37158 991 10
610 232 244 10
931 10 303 699 10
• ,
irjth day's dr. wing, Aug. 14.
141 10 14753 24514 10 38220 20
>75 »59®4 553 5®4 10
245 950 805 981 10
874 10 fS3 Bi3 I* 59579
*756 10 16106 !•
783 10 776 10 25564 41340
970 17218 10 889 44' IO
4758 10 738 26416 41866
381 10 241 1*29389 599 10
652 701 648 10 643
794 915 30041 826
6133 19397 °79 1*044387 10
7154 ■» 813 642 408
557 943 3H79 50 894
8038 21854 *o 33453 998
4" 93° 552 46156
556 10 943 10 914 337 !•
677 10 12850 34301 *95
9018 956 10 36147 47194
11131 23066 10 841 10 736
319 10 258 10 37241 4819.1 10
507 936 , 669 414 10
*4193 986 ■ 721 49*93 10
Error in the 113 th day—lnftead of 391658 10
read
80 Dollars Reward. ,
LAST night the (hop of the fuhferiber wa«op
ened, »n-1 several articles taken off, vil. a
common black lrather pocket book containing two
twenty dollar notes of the last emiflion of the Penn
fylvania Bank, and a number of loose papers—
one pinchback watch with a carved cast, and fix
filter ones—one of these a Fretlth watch, original
ly mad'c to tell the day of the month, but this par',
of the works had been taken out»—the figures on. the
dial plate were left—Another was made by Love
land, London, the number 3113 ; a -hird wai mark
ed on the dial plate as wel as the inside Amber
New-York'. No further particulars are recollefl
ed. Whoever discovers the thief, or tkieves, so
that they may be prosecuted to eonvi&ion and the
property recovered, (hall have the above reward.
Forty dollars will be paid for the property alone,
or in proportion for any pert of it.
THOMAS LINDSAY.
■N. B. all watchmakers arc requested to stop
he above watches ii offered lor lale.
Fcankford, August 19.
Aug. 41. eoßt>
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds.and quarter calks;
60 cwt. Cork, for fate by
Philips, Craraond„& Co.
Jbly 21. 5
Higgins' Specific
ro* ma
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
TELLOW FEVER.
I7VER fine- this disease made such ravages in this
L city and New-Y ork, ,- the author has turned his
attention to its causes and cure.—The relult of his
enquiries has convinced him that the reason why so
few persons recover from, its attacks, are frem its
not being well understood, and the consequent
■wrong method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that the exceflive bleedigrs and mercurial reatment
of the Facility is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by the use of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Specific as a
certain remedy, if used according to the dire&ions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higgim, Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson and
Go's Medicine Warchoufe, London); by J. Lr
ilam, No. 3' 6 ; IV. Griffith, No. 17 7, T. Pearcr. No.
41, South Third street, 7. Stiff, No. 55, New street,
near Vine street, and J. G*la, No. 36, Race- (iroet.
Aug. 15. tuths 3 t
1• « \
Chocolate and IVluftard
Manufactured as usual,
vGihger and Fepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Philadelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
I London Porter „
Taunton and Button Ale
Ked Port and other Wines, eithe bottled*
or by the pipe, quartW-caflt or galloti—fuitable
fcrexoortation or home confunvption—
For Sale,by
John Haworth.
No. jS fitrnth Front Srcst
[from the NORFOLK HEitrtLD.J
The Freehold /ml itfj dor's Letter to the
Secretary of State.
D?!ed Ju y 30, 1797.
epitomis'd and veksiFi'd.
[Br At; Ameiucan.~\
IF you wi(h, honcftTiM, for my gracious replies, 1
Go fellow, and alter thy pi .n.
Nor dare the blue iight'ning that gleams in both
eyes, 1
When you write unto ME as a MA«.
I deign now to answer, your Office Epistle j
At my answer, the Acorns rattle,
And the Winds of my People, so loudly (h;-' 7 :
whittle,
! That their Chairs,all arottnd (hallmake battle.
I call not on you. Sir, to know, why difplac'd,
I ihould adl like a Partiz.m elf ;
Why, when no one accuses, I yet feel difgrac'd,
—For I well know the reason myfelf.
HIS principles, condu<9. and views too, I knew
Would lead us a terrible dance.;
But true to the cause,. that we PATRIOTS
pursue,
I receiv'd his Commission for France
In vain, Master TiM, may you preach of " hie
pleasure,"
" Hie pleasure" 's no pleasure to me ;
I married the Post, 'tis my Freehold my Trea
sure,.
And it during my pleasure (hall be.
Come, "juflify" then unto Jemmy M——oe,
All the Ails of your administration,
Ere I let loose on your " ground" the torrents
ps woe,
And with <w<tter pets drown all the Nation.
Perhaps forae may think, that because 1 wasfenh
I wa« thought a " machine" that would go,
But my weights got unhung, and my oil being
spent,
The AmbafTador, tum'd to—M 01.
My employers defpis'd, my employment forgdt.
The " Centinel ' part I aflum'd ;
And who dares to fay, that the gamt Centry
Cock
Struts abroad, without tail or unplum'ti ? ,
I allow of removal, in many small cases,
But the heart of a Saint it would vex,
That among tbc fmill fry rcmov'd fr«m-their
* aces,
Great EGO (hould tarn te an EX. t
i
I dt-fpife " Iouen«!oe»" but beg leave to smell
At a u door" in youroilice of wood,
At which enter daily, tnc villains who tell,
What, alas 1 I would do, if I ceu'd.
I would hold on my head, the great BUCKET
of State,
By noticing, the highejl fhoul J fall,
And ftili should I keep out, a BOW to Adet,
Should feather, and overthrow all.
I now mean to close, by condemning all those,
To hang on Liberty Tree,
Fools, madmen and roguet, who foolilhlv
cb»fe,
Thjn thought they could do without me. >
'Vill wbimpe/, appeal, point UP to my deserts,
Over Liberties lofl, I'll be fishing ;
Agd if nonght's to be done, by flights and by
flirts,
I car. only be laugh'd at for crying.
And then—the deep thunder, (hall mutter and
■ncaa,
The round bellied world heave in birth,
Stars, planets and funs, (hall (hrir.k at the groan,
s!nd a new little Scribble come fartb.
Norfolk, 16th August, 1797.
SOME years since, a sober, zealous, Connec
ticut parson went to catechize a family in his
parifb, who were not so well versed in the (rudi
ments of divinity as many are : when arrived,
he thought proper to begin with Lois, the eld
eft daughter, a girl abeut eighteen, and buxom
as May—whose charms had smitten the young
village swains with an epidemick. " Well
Lois," said the parson, " I (hall begin with
yau"—" come tell me who died for you ?"
Lois, with a charming flulh in her cheek, repii
ed-—" why noliody as I know on."
son, rather furprijed at htr answer, his
question with encrtafing zeal—Lois, I fay, tell
me who died for you ?"—Poor Lois, rather ir
ritated at the inquificive parson, again replied,
why nobtiy, fir—there was Tom-Diwfon lay
bed rid for me, about fix mouths, but folks fays
he got about again.
LONDON, June 16.
Covent-Garden theatre was re-opened last
night, for the benefit of the widow and
orphans of those brave men who perished,
and for tbofe who were wounded in the'
glorious aftion of the 14th of February un
der admiral lord St, Vincent (late fir John
Jervis) and was extremely crowded with the
best company.
The performers, whose kind zeal on the
occasion did the highelt credit to them, and
could only be exceeded by the lustre re
flected oil the diftinguiftied characters, who
so honorably interested themselves in so good
a cause, and afted as avowed patrons and
Rewards, exerted themselves with a superi
ority of (kill, which nothing but the consci
ousness of a benevolent motive could have
enabled them to manifeft.
Every necessary arrangement fnr commrncing the
negotiation between t>.s6 country an- France is now
completely formed. Lord Malm, (bury is the per
son appointed to treat in behalt of. this country ,
and we underfland that M. Barthelomy is to be
the negotiator on the part of the French govern
ment. (
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Present John Hall, Sea'ry
Francis Johnfton, R. O. > of land office
Dan. Brodhead, S. G- )
Nicholas Bettinger,
•versus V
Samuel Cunningham. J
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing mfufficient, It isordered that notice be giv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers. weekly, for at leatt eight weeks to t!tc
heirs or aflignees of ,S;wm>el Cunningham «!e
---ceafed, to atttend the board 011 the firft Monday
in November next, to (hew caute why a patent
(kould net ifTiie to Nicholas Bettinger for the
land in quefHon.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. 15/ ' *iawßw.
Aft laying Duties on Stamped. Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copiss of-the a! jvea& may be had at
the Office of the Gazstte of the United States, No
Hp, July 191
Xlje dfoisette*
PHILADELPHIA,
SUNDAY EVENING, Augujl 27.
1 Hating been favored by a Gentle
man who came paflenger in the
Stage of Saturday evening, from
New-York, with the New-York
Daily Gazette of Saturday, 26th
Augujl, we have been induced
to anticipate the publication ps
Monday's C? az ette.
#—
NEW-YORK, August 26.
Ye£»-><ky we London news up
to the 24th of ]une, received by the Bri
tifti packet—This das we are enabled, by
the arrival of the Severn, capt. Fairly, to
bring up our chain of London Advices to
the FIFTH of Jnty. through the medium
of Hull papers tq f"ly 8. The Extra£ta
follow—They are ruly
important.
»• From the London Gazette.
1 DPwning-Street, July I.
W The King having been pleased to appoint
jthe Right Hon. Lord Malmefbury, Knight
jj of the Bath, to ,be his majesty's Plenipo
. tcntiary fornegoc;ating a Treaty of Peace
with the Plenipotentiaries of the French
Republic, duly a« l horifed for this purpose,
M-is Lordship set out yesterday for Lisle,
where the Negociations are to be forthwith
opened. His majffty has also been pleased
to -dpoiift the Hon. Henry Wefley, to be
Se' retary to the above miffiou. ■
EXECUTION OF PARKER, THE
MUTINEER.
On FtiJay, June 50, 1797.
Friday morning, at 8 o'clock, A. M. a
gjhu was fire* frotn on board Hi) majesty's
imp x. tSXm, ij'Tng off the gaiVifoa, Vice
Admiral Lutwidge's flag-(hip, and the yel
low flag, the signal of capital punishment,
was hoisted, • which was immediately repeat
ed by the Sandwich hoisting the fame co
lour on her. foretop. The Sandwich was
(Vationed rather above Blackftakes, tlpe
headmolt (hip in the fleet. The garrison,
on the gun firing, were immedictely under
arms, eonfifting of the East and Weft York,
Weft Norfolk Militia ; a corps of invalids,
and a train of artillery ; all of which, with
fixed bayonets, marched out of Sally-Port
Gate, with their colours flying, and pro
ceeded in single files, along the South (hore
of the Medway, near to Queenboroiigh, In
order to be fpeftators of the event—all the
barrier gates of the garrison were fhut,
and each (hip in the fleet at this time lept a
boat off with a Lieutenant and a party of
marines to attend the Sandwich : the crews
of all were piped to the forecaftle, and the
marines drawn up on the quarter-decks, to
be witnesses of the execution. Parker, who
had taken his usual repast in the birth allot
ted him in the gun-room, and passed the
night in grjat composure, was awaked a
little after 6 o ( 'clock from a found by
the Marshal Provost, who witlf a file of ma
rines, composed his guard ; he arose with
cheerfulnefs, and requested permiffiori might
be alked for a barber to attend him, whieh
was granted : he soon dressed himfelf in a
neat suit of mourning, (waistcoat except
ed) sent him by a friend of the name of
Templor, wearing his half boots over a pair
of bkek silk (lockings : he then took his
breakfaft, talked of a will he ha
in which he had bequeathed hia, wifCa little
estate he said ht. wa9heirto; after that,
lamented the .misfortune that had it.en bro't
on the country by the mutiny, but solemn
ly denied having the lead connexion or cer
refpondence with any difaffedted persons on
(hore, ar.d declared that it was chiefly owing
to him that the (hips had not been carried
into the enemy's parts. 1 * s
At half after 8, he was told the Chaplain
of the (hip was ready to attend him to pray
ers upon the quarter-deck, which he imme
diately ascended uncovered. A' hi«firft en
trance upon deck, he looked a little paler
than common, but soon recovered his usual
completion : he bowed to the officers, and
a chair being allowed him, he fat dawn a
few morqents, and steadily surveyed the mi
litary array of marines under arms round
the deck : Tie then arose and told the Cler
gyman he was ready to attend him ; the
Chaplain informed him he had selected two
psalms appropriate to his Gtuatiqn ; to
which the prisoner assenting said, "and with
your permiflion fir I will add a third," aud
named the 51ft, that" beautiful confedional
of David, and imploring of forgivenefs,
"'Have mercy upon me O God, after thy
goodn<i% according to th» multitude of thy
mercies do away mine offences !" &c. He
then recited each alternate vcrfe, in a m3n
• ner peculiarly impressive. At 9 o'clock the
preparatory, gun was fired from L'Efpion,
winch he heard without the smallest emo
tion. Prayers being soon after closed, he
rose and a(ked capt. Moss " if he might be
indulged with a glass of white wine ?" which
feeing immediately granted, lifting up his
eyes, he exclaimed—" I drink firft to the
salvation of my foul !—and next to the for
givenefs of all my enemiss !"—Addreffing
himfelf to captoin Moss, he said " he hop
ed he would ftiake hands with him"; which
the capt. did ; he then desired " that he
might be remembered to his companions on
board the Neptune, with his last dying en
treaty to them, to prepare for their destiny,
and refrain from unbecoming levity !"—His
arms being now bound, the solemn proces
sion moved from the quarter deckto the fore
caftle, iu the following order :
1. The Boatswain and Mates.
2. The Provost Marshall; his fvvord in one
and the halter in the other.
3. Captain Clerk of the Sandwich, bear
ing the warrant of execution under the feil
of the Vice Admiral.
!• ' ,
4- The Rev. WTr. Atherton, Chaplain of
the Sandwich, in his robes.
5. The Prisoner in mourning, walking
with a firm deportment.
6. The Ship's Master of Arms, with his
drawn cutlass.
7. Captain Moss and his officers, with
two of three other gentlemen, who were
admitted on board.
The whole parted through a double file
of marines on the starboard lide to the plat
form ere&ed on the cat head, with an ele
vated projedlioir. Arriving there he knelt
with the and joined in some de
vout ejaculations ; to all of which, he re
peated loudly " Amen !"—Rifing again,
the admiral's warrant of execution, address
ed to Captain Moss, was now read by the
clerk, in which the fentcncc ps the court
martir.l. Order of the'board, admiralty, and
his majesty's approbation of the wh le pro
ceedirigi were fully recited, which the pri
soner heard with great attention, and bowed
his head, as if an a (Tent, at the close of it.
He now alked the captain, " whether
he alight speak f" and immediately appre
hended his intention might be misconceived,
he added, " I am not going, Sir, to ad
dress the whole fhip'a company ! —I vvifli
only to declare, that I acknowledge the
justice of the sentence under which I fuffer,
and I hope my d?ath may be deemed a fuf
ficient atonement, and save the lives of
others !"—He now requested a minute to
recoll-ft him/elf, and knelt down alone
about that space of time : then rising up,
" I am ready !"—and holding his head with
connderable dignity, said to the Boatswain's
Mate, " take off my handkerchief," (of
black silk) which,being done, the Marlhal
Provost placed the halter over v his head
(which had been prepared with grease), but
doing it aukwardly, the prisoner said rather
pettishly to the Boatswain's Mate," Do you
do it, for he seems to know nothing about
it !" The halter was then spliced to the
reeved rope : ill this being adjusted, the
Mr.rfh al attempted to put ft cap on, which
b* refufed : but otl bekg told It was indis
pensable, he submitted, rcquelling it might
not be pulled over his eyes till he desired it:
He thfn turned quite round, firft
time, and gave a steady look at his ship
mates on the forecaftle, and with an affe&l-'
onate kind of smile nodded his head, and
, said, " Good by to you !" He now said
' Captain Moss, is the gun primed ?' ' It
is.' ' Is the match light ?' ' All is rea
dy.' On this he advanced a little, and said,
' Will any gentleman be so good as to lend
me a white handkerchief for the signal ?'
After some little pause, a gentleman step
ped forward and gave him one ; to whom
bowing, he returned him thanks He now
alcended the platform, repeated the fame
question about the gun, evidently to gain the
time he wished for the pcrfefl completion of
what lie had preconcerted in his own mind,
then the cap keing drawn over his face,
walked by firm degrees up to the extremety
of the fcaffold, he dropped his handkerchief,
put his hands in his coat pockets with great
rapidity, and at the moment as he was
springing off, the fatal bow-gun fired, and
the reeve-rope catching him, run hifn i»p,
though not with great velocity to the yard
arm !—When suspended about midway, by
the elasticity of the rope, hit body appeared
convulsed for a few seconds, immediately a(f
ter which no appearance of life remained.
It being tide of ebb, the starboard yard
arm - pointed to the isle of Grain, where
fcaftolding was erefted for spectators 011
(hore : a considerable number of yatchts,
qutters, and other craft surrounded the
Sandwich : the last time the prisoner knelt
with the Chaplain at the Cat head, though
he made his responses regularly, his attention
was particularly dire&ed the whole time to
the armed boats of the fleet, which were
plying round on duty ! The whole conduct
I of this awful ceremony was extremely deco
| rous and impressive it was evident, from
the countenances of the crew of the Sand
wich, that the general feeling for the fate
of their tnutiuous conductor was such as
might be wi!hed ; nor a word—and scarce a
whisper was heard among them.
The instant he was visible to the garrif n
at the yard arm, the telegraph was put in
motiou to announce it to the admiralty ; and
j from the clearness of the atmosphere and
j quicKness of workin , the advice must have
been received in seven minutes. ,
He fuffered exactly at half pad ninfc, and
was lowered down, after hanging at the
yard arm a full hour, when' the yellow flag
was struck, and his body immediately put iu
to a (hell that had been prepared for it with
all his clothes on : and soon after it was
taken in one of the Sandwich's boats and
rowed to the east point of the garrison, and
there being landed, was carried to the New
Naval Gate, leading to Minster.—The cof
fin-lid was here taken off to the fpe&ators
for a few minutes ; his countenance appear
ed, not much altered, but his eyes were wjde
open. His body was however after
wards taken up by his friends and bro't
to London. It was on Sunday lying at a
house in Rosemary-lane near the tower.
Parker was about thirty-three year* of
age, five feet ten inches high, and well made;
hrs complexion, eyes and hair dark—his
nose prominent, and his countenance et
prefiive and manly. He had spent molt of
his life at sea.
Thursday last the wife of Parker pre
sented a .petition to the Earl of Moreton,
to be delivered to the Queen, in favor><sf her
unfortunate husband. Her deportment was
becoming her unhappy situation.
LONDON, July 2.
Ipthe fitting of the J 2th June, Paftoret
called the attention of the council of 500 to
the political fituatipn of France and the
United States of America. Adverting to
the treaty of 1778, he prpfeffed himfelf un
able to conceive how the Diredtorv could
ilfue the orderof 2dMarth last, which was e
quivalent to a declaration of —After
(hewing that the Directory had tfce tight of
taking the firft steps in a war, it belonged
.to the Legiflauve Bud}' to examine aad
V'" f' '' ' , 1 'l s < ■ » *
qonfirm it. *» What," sard. Paftoret, " lisv*
been the acts of JwftJSty which have pro
voked this order? I admit that the coir,
mercial treaty Concluded in 1794, between
Washington and the British adminiftratmn
may give rife to some tufpicions refp?'&ing
the United States ; but tliefe. are not fuffi
cient tojuflify a violation, of the constitu
tion." , The orator concluded by moving
for a message to the Diieftory, requirin|-
an account of the political situation of
France, considered. in relation to the Unit
ed States, and all orders of the Directory be
sent to the committee appointed to eonfider
how far the Legislative Body can annul the
order of the Executive Body. These rc- '
solutions, with some alterations, as to the
committee ar,d the order of proceeding a
dopted and the fpecch of Paltorct was or- *
dered to be printed.
Late last night arrived the mail from Ham
burgh, due on' Wednesday. The mod im
portant intelligence it brings'is the official
information that his Prussian Majefly, whose
diflolution seems to be near at baiid, has
acknowledged the Batavian Republic.
Yeftcrday Capt Coll'ns arrived at the
Duke of Portland's office with dispatches tar
1 government, from Governor Hunteif at "
Botany Bay. The advicts xhte*the ifiand
to be in a very flourifhing condition.
The blockade of Cadiz, by the'fleet un
der the command of the Earl of St . Vincent,
is the mod complete and glorious a thing
that the na.val annals of this or any country
can produce. For some weeks part the
British fleet has been moored in a line of
battle across the harbor of Cadiz, which
contains about 56 Tail of the Spanilh line,
the British fleet confiding only of 25. Our
fleets also block up the French and Dutck
fleets, in Bred and the Texel.
J ul 7 3-
The preliminaries of peace offeied by
Buonaparte to the Venetians, contain 7
articles. They flipulate for the payment of
3,50 ,000 ducats in ready money ; the free
maintenance of the French trroops till they
shall leave the Venetian Territory: 3,b00,000
livres in naval (lores, fix ships of the line,
40 piftures, the moil valuable MSB. in the
Library of St. Mark, and several statues.
Intelligence has arrived at the cafllc of
Dublin, from Lieutenant General Dalrym
ple, that in consequence of the late procla
mation, a difcovtry has been made of ma
ny soldiers ill militia regiments having be
come engaged in the plots 6t the United
Irishmen ; in consequence yi'hereof feveraT
have been apprehended.
Thelaft dispatches from the Directory an
nounced the arrival of the French commis
sioners at Lisle, and added that M. del Cam
po and M. Cabarrus were appointed to at
tend the conferences on' the part of Spain,
and that Commissioners were alft named for
the Batavian Republic. The Directory
transmitted at the fame time a proclamation
of the municipality of Lisle, announcing the
preparations for the Congress, by which it
appears that they are to be received with th«
utmost pomp of military honor, and. bath
the English and French commifiarieg to be
constantly attended by a guard. The ex
treme civility of this pomp is perfectly in
telligible. The French feern rcfolvcd that
Lord Malmefbury shall no intereourfe
with the country. —Star.
Government received Dispatches yester
day from Rear Admiral" Duncan, flaring,
that he was then at anchor withir*2 leagues
of the Dutch fleet in the Texel, which dis
played 33 pendants ; and that he had-re
ceived unquestionable advice, that French
and Dutch troops, to the anaount of 75,000
men, were cantoned and encamped on that
part of the coast a few days before ; a con
siderable part of which had been embarked on
bcvard the Englifh admiral
pretfe6 for an immediate reinforcement.
An article from BriifTels, of the 25th ps
June, fays, that by letters from the Hague,
it appears that*at the moment when thf Ba
tavian Republic expected to receive theVewa
of the failing of the Dutch fleet f/om the
Texel, with a numerous convoy d? trans
ports, filled with troops, arms, and ammu
nition, they were surprized to receive intel
ligence that that road nvas entirely blocked
up by the English squadron under the orders
of admira' Duncan. A cutter which went
outto reconnoitre the numberof the English,
fell into their hands- Thus every hope of
an expedition against England is for the pre
fect destroyed. This armament-has absorb
ed the most valuable resources of the Batavi
an nation, and will produce.no good.
We are concerned to state, that a spirit
of difcoutent still prevails in feme of the ihfps
gf Lord Bridports fleet. Our letters from
Portsmouth and Plymouth this tnornir.gr, in
form us that the Marlborough, of 74 guns,
j-id arrived at the former port, and the Sa
turn, of 74 guns, at the latter ; both in a
date of mutiny. Lord Bridport with the
remainder of his fleet was Handing up Tor
bay.
July
The Channel Flett under the comrtwnd
of Lord Bridport, went into Toj-bay, on
Monday.
We aye happy jn being able to state that
the crew of the Saturn appear to have re
turned to their duty, and that perfeiS ordev
is restored on board that (hip.
Lord Malmefbury and his suite landed at
Calais on Monday afternoon about 5 o'clock.
His lord/hip was received with every pofTible
refptil by the municipality, and conducted
to the Silver Lion Inn, where an elegant
.dinner had been prepared for him. A colo
nel's guard was mounted for him and remain
ed open duty until his Loidfhip's departure
for Lille, which took place yeftcrday morn
ing at 6 o'clock. Mr., Rofs and a Meffen-'
ger proceeded to Lisle on Monday evening
to announce his lordship's arrival at Calair,
We this morniug received Paris papers of
the lit inft. Thty contain an account from
Milan of the signing of the definitive treaty
of peace between Austria and France on the
3 1 ft of May at Montabello.
Ia the Council ps Fi\e Hundred, the
tl)ird flan -of. Gilbert DtTmolicres, r^fpeiS..ng the finances of the Re public, was ft ill
under difcuffibfi, and no resolution had heen
come to 011 the fubjeft in the fitting of the
30th, the lall of which we have any -ac
count.
We also received this morning Bruffel's
papers to the 3 th ult.
In an article from Vienna of the 18th ult.
we find a speech attributed Buonaparte,
wi which he fays -that he had no objection to
the Mihnefe forming an independent repub
lic ; but that it was their hnfinefs to consider
how far they could defend themselves againfl
the house of Auflria. From this conversa
tion it wis conjeftured, that the Court of
Vienna would recover Milan ; and what ad
ded to the' supposition that the Milanese
Wi're desirous of returning tc! the fubje&ion
of the Emperor was, that four de utie* from
Milan had arrived at Vienna, where they
had been well received by Baron Thugut,
and had on the 12th «n audience with the
jEmperOr.
% The Impartial European of the 28th ult.
contain* the following article :
" We are. this tryoment assured, that jt is !
reported through different Swiss .Cantons, j
that the negociations of peace between '
France and th« Emperor are brokea off, and
that hostilities are on the point of commen
cing.
" The Swiss, who appear to have been
apprehensive that Buonaparte would march
ag?inft their Cantons, have perhaps spread
this report' to quiet the uneasiness of the
people ; since they ar sure that the threats
of Bnonaparte will be attended with no
effe£t. t
" What appears to give credit to this re
port is, the arrival of several Piedmontefe
agents in Switzerland, wlo purchase horses
at any price for the cavalry of the King of
Sardinia ; it is, hi faft more thau probable
that if the war with Auflria commences,
this Prince will be obliged to furnifh the
contingent which he has undertakeu bythe
treaty to furnifh. We are, however, dis
posed to believe that these horses are destined
for some other purpose, and that this bad
news will not be considered."
letter from Duffeldorff of the 25th ult.
icontainedin the Bruffel* paper of the 29th)
ates, that an order had just been received
there from the commander in chief of th. ar
my of the Sambre aad.Menfe, which excited
general astonishment j the county of Berg
is ijnmedintely to supply 500 men per day,
ork at the fortification* of Duffeldorf.
ecity itfelf i* to supply 250 ;■ and 300
uppers are arrived to fcccmd the operation* .
of the workmen. The objeft of,a measure i
so extraordinary at a moment when every
appearance promises a speedy and general
peace, is anxiously enquired.
t ~ Tha French troops are making move
ments, the end of which it would be diffi
cult to divine. We are indeed assured, that
gen. Le Febre js entrusted with a private
expedition ; bnt this assurance i* merely
founded on conjefture.
On the other hand it is remarked that the
Auflrian troops are assembling in force at
Hapan. (
The archduke Charje* is daily expected
at Frankfort, where it is said his royal high
jiefs will have a conference with general
Hofhe.—The duke of Wirtemberg has left
Franckfort to Stutgard.
The keel of a new ship of 98 guns, i* or
dered immediately to be laid down in the
king'* dock-yard at Chatham, to be called
the Europe. She will be conflrufted whol
ly of English oak, which has been some time
collecting,'and from a model on th'e largefl
scale and newest improvements of naval ar
chitecture.
Orders are gone down to the .Plymouth
marine barracks, from the admiralty for
three of the marines lately tried for a con
spiracy to murder their officers, to be fhot—
the fourth who was tried is to receive a
thousand lashes, and to be transported to
New South Wale*.
The mutineers of the Inflexible now in
cuflody,. are, we hear, to be the neit to be '
tried by the court martial, on board the
Neptune.
The negociation for peace, on which the
happfnef* of millinns depends, ha* certainly, 1
'ere thjs time, commenced. Lord Malmcf- 1
bury and his suite failed on Monday after- 1
noon from Dover ; and he was expected to i
reach Lisle yeflerday. v ' •
'The Directory hav given orders that there- 1
ception of the Englifll Negeiation (hall be as
flattering and folendid a* pofllble Le fourrieiir
arrived at Lisle on the 17th ult and the Marqui*
Del Camho and M. Cahaioit* have also proceed
ed to the place of Negociation to attend the in
tereefts of Spain—Oracle.
It is remarkable that Packer, after his fentenoe
WatfKaed with a fort of literary mi nil He re- 1
'duelled to be fubplied with the Rible. Do Idoit I
Death. Sherlock os do. A Tillonfori's Sermons, 1
aoiouotin? only to about 1611191 ]
Tom Pa : ne, Hamilton Rowan, and Naper
Tandy are all 1 . Paris. S'jreld fueh.a {ombuf- j
tible Troy were enough to overpower even the .
five, King». It is very fortunate that they are- 1
not at Lisle to blow up the Negociation. 1
The Trench Hevoiution, is it seems, making: I
the Tour of China, and certain pro ineers of j
Turkey, aicording tt> Frtnch accounts,.which ,
gravely remark t+iat it seems as if the end of the
world is approaching." According to this philo
sophy, the end of the world i« the beginning of '
that which they call Freedom, and the Republic '
of the penple mull be porn only to die 1 1
AFFAIRS OF IRELAND. <
The lad accounts from Ireland are cer- i
tainly. of an alarming nature, in as much as t
they shew that the ratifications of the con
federacy distinguished by the name of Unit- :
cd Irishmen, are g'n reality infinitely more f
cxtenfive than even the reports of the two f
honfes of Parliament in Ireland on this sub- s
jedl had laught us to believe. c
From these reports we were induced to
think the conspiracy was confined, or near
ly so, to the province of UMler ; we find
iiqw, however, that it has travelled to the t
Other extremities of the kingdom, and gain- J
ed numerous proselytes both in the south & t
the weft. ' f
The difcovcry made in the camp at Bau
ion, in the county of Cork, has but too t
i clearly established the melancholy truth
1 and-opened a -gloomy to thof
: who contemplate the'political ,fituatiof) o
■ affairs in Ireland.
The plan laid by the confpiratores afford
i the greatest ground for alarm, as it was'no
a sudden elullition of difconten or ill will
but a cool deliberate delignj exery part o
, vvhich denotes system, reflection, combina
i tion, and talertts. In a word, every thinj
■ was conducted with so much secrecy, anc
every precaution which was to thi
fuccefft of a great and dangerous enter prize
was so well taken, that had not an accom
plice, either from remorse of conscience, 01
hope of reward, betrayed his associate* and
revealed the plot, the confequenje mnf
have been such as would have made huma
nity shudder,""and perhaps haw in a higl
degree endangered the interest of the Bri
tilh empire.
In the camp at Bandon were Rationed his
j majesty's 30m regiment of foot, a battalior
of militia, attached to it, and the count)
j of Leitrim regiment of militia, making it
! the whole 1500 men.
j At no very great difiance from this camp
1 are two others in the fame county, (Cork]
of which is st Ratnoormuofc. A- com
muoication was opened between the privates
of the militia Rationed in all here, and a
regular plan of operations was digested by
them, for counteracting those pursued by
government in- the North, for the extirpa
tion of the principles that bound together
the members of the society of United Irifh
mci .
The only part of the plan which has yet
transpired, is this, that on the ifl day of
this month, ar an honr agreed upon, the
men were to rife in all the three camp*, put
their officers to death together, with the
regulars who should oppose them, and make
themselves mailers of all the floret, ammu
nition, &rms and artillery. This being ef
fected, they were to rahe the fbndard* of
United .Irishmen, and invite all the friend*
of their Cause in every part of the kingdom
to repair to it. ,The 30th regiment in par
ticular, it is said, was marked out for d«-
flruftion. on account of the fleady loyalty
they had displayed in seconding the itieafures
of government for disarming and apprehend
ing United Irishmen. We haxe heard, how
ever, that the massacre ' was not to have
been extended beyond the commissioned
non commissioned officers.
This plot, as our readers already know,
was dWcovered by a private of the Dublin
militia ; and in consequenCe of hi* informa
rion, between 30 and 40 soldiers of the
Bandon camp were secured, who, were des
cribed as the ringleaders, or mod aftive
agents in thebufinef*, as were also some of
the country people, who were represented
as having been the means of communication
between the different camps.
The extent of the conspiracy greatly
alarmed government—it was resolved, after
some deliberation thrt a dardon should be
granted to all the conspirators who were not
then in cuflody, on condition that they ab
jured the principle* of United Irifhment,
and took anew the oath of allegiance to hi*
majefly.
On this occasion Gen. Dalrymple, who
officially made the offer of pardon, saw
whole companies advance in bodie- to avail
themselves of the offer ; thu* proclaiming,
by their abjuration, that they were, or at
leafl had been United Irishmen.
If any man think* that the mi'chief is at
an end, and that this new security, taken for
their allegiance, is a firm pledge of their fu
ture loyalty, and of the public tranquility,
he mull- be credulous to a moll unpardona
ble degree —for what reliance can be placed
on the oath* of men, who have already
broke the mofl sacred and solemn engage
ments ?—-"Not to fay any thing of their en
gagement confirmed by oath to the society
of United Irishmen, they could not have
entered into the conspiracy which has been
so lately Jete&ed and defeated, without a
deliberate breach of the oath of allegiance
which they took at the time they were en
listed or embodied. Surely the repeated
breaches of the moll fee red obligations, can
not afford a rational ground for hope, that
those who have hitherto disregarded and
trampled upon oaths, will in future be reli
gions observers of them. Those who are
capable of entertaining such a hope, are not
qualified for the office of statesmen.
Oaths never have beeu, and never will be,
as binding on the multitude as felf-interejl.
Make it the interest of men to be true to
you, and you need not think of eXafting an
oath of fidelity from them.
Thi* system mud at lafl be pursued with
refpetl to Ireland. The government of
that country mull undergo a very Conlidera
ble change, before any reasonable hope or
lasting tranquility can be entertained.—
Neither England. nor-Irelqnd'can afford to
keep a large army conftatitly ok foot in the
latter kingdom ; and if it be the prtffure of
military force that alone keep* down the
spirit of infurre&i«m, we may naturally ex
pedl ,it will rife when that pressure is with
drawn.
Away then with force ; let the govern
ment be established where alonfc it ought to
Hand for the hearts and affections of the peo
ple ; and should oiie'turbulent and seditious
man then grefume to disturb the tranquility
of the country, twenty of hi* neighbours
would appear to secure and bring him to s
condign punishment.
Far as the present feflion of parliament is
advanced in Ireland, as well as here, some
fleps ought to be taken before the recess,
for tranquilizing that diflraCted kingdem :
and the preliminary flep should be, a change
of the lord lieutenant and his advisers.
PARIS, Juty 1.
The executive directory ?ent a day or
two ago to the minister ofpolice, to know
if it was true, that there existed clubs in
different quarters of Paris. Cochon re
turned for answer, that he was already in
the knowledge of the existence of more
' than fifty, and that new ones were eve
• ry day forming. They add, that the df
reftory, after deliberating a quarter of
art hour, called in the minister again, and
gave him directions to redouble his vigi
. lance, because the directory could not
fuffer any anarchical club;;.
Nothing coujd be more wife than this
determination but so vague an order
must rather puzzle than enlighten the
minister ps police, since anarchy maybe
brought about in a variety of ways. The
jacobins are endeavoring to introduce it ;
the royalists are at work at it : and the
ambitious dream.of it. Each party hopes
to find his account in it, although it has
hitherto only proved their graves. It is
almost in the essence of clubs to lead to
anarchy, because every great assembly of
men has a tendency to acquire dominion,
and because the powers which they as
sume to themselves, is stolen from that
which Ihould belong to the legislative bo
dy. Clubs may for a moment assist gov
ernment, but they ultimately make it
pay deah for the aid which they lend it
by the yoke which they impoie on it,
Besides, how can the directory hinder
one party from holding clubs, if it gives
permission to another ? We now hear of
jacobin clubs, directorial clubs, and
revolutionary clubs ; they will not it is
true, give themselves these titles, but they
will have the fame tendency and the fame
objects in view. The only method of
preventing this, to pass, according to
the spirit of the constitution, a law which
iftall put an end to them altogether. '
It is thought that tfle{fire£tbry, by gi
ving HedouviMe the chief command of
! St. Domingo, intend to give gen. Ro
chambeau the fuperintendance of the
Spanish part which has been ceded to
us.
Maret, the plenipotenliary," who had
remained behind at Paris, set off for
Lille yesterday.
We are allured, that the majority o£
the directory are sensible of the neceffi
of agreeing with the legislative body, in
order to prevent a ruptute dangerous to
all parties, to strengthen the cause of the
sincere friends to the constitution, and
to bring about a union which is at pres
ent so neceflVy for resistance to attacks
of all factions.
The minister for foreign affairs has
just published a bull of the Pope, en
joining all French priests to submit to the
laws of the republic—Will, the voice of
his holiness be as effectual in fcalming the
tempest as it has been in railing it ?
A vessel which has put into Brest, met
fifteen English (hips of war in the nar
now leas.
Letters the Hague, dated oifcthe
23d ult. mention that Mr. Adams, the
resident of the United States of Ameri
ca there, was about to return, and that
Mr. Murray was Appointed to succeed
him. Admiral Lucas died loth,
aged 50, at the tiijie they were preparing
to enter 011 an examination -of his con
duct relative tothe surrender of his squad
ron at the Cape. Some of the Dutch
Journals have published the secret in
ftru£tions which were given to the ad
miral. These are dated on the loth of
November, , 179£; the admiral did not
fail till the February following, yet no
change was made in these inftruftions,
although in the interval, intelligence had
been received of the English having
made themselves matters .of the Cape.
Letters from Germany mention, that
the Hessians had attempted to pass the
line of demarcation, and the French had
dppofed it; in conference of which, a
bloody battle had between the
twp psales.
A private letter from Milan announces
the death of the Pope ; and adds, that
the King of Naples had sent a diviiion
of his army to penetrate into the eccle
siastical ltate. Buonaparte had detached
a diviiion of his -army to oppose it. -The
little probability which there is in the
latter part of the intelligence, gives us
reason to entertain doubts as to the for
mer part.
Afleed Ali Affendi, the Ottoman am
baflador, having completed his Quaran
tine, mrfde his public entry intq Mar
seilles on the 17 th ult.-—The cannons '
were fired on the occasion. . '
Letters from Milan, of the 12th ult,
mention that the Difinitive Treaty of
Peace between Austria and France, was .
signed on the 31ft' May, at Montebello, .
by the Marquis di Gallo and Count
Meerfeldt, on the one fide, aud Generals
Buonaparte and Clark, of the other; af
ter which Count Meerfeldt set off for
Vienna. It is thought that in eonfe
quence of an arrangement agreed on be
tween the Plenipotentiaries, that 2 J,OOO
Auftrians have left the Tyroffor Bavaria,
which it is known, has long been coveted
- by the House of Austria. The length
f of time/occupied by the secret negocia
-1 tions between'the Cabinet of Viennaami
- the French government.gave r.ifa to iome
uneafitwfs ; but it is said that the Empe
ror is certain of being amply indemnifi
; ed for the cession of the Low Countries
• and 'of Lombardy, by poffeiTions nearer
'J home, and which will render the House
' of Austria more powerful and more for
: midable than ever. It is in T aly that
, the most important affairs of Europe are
• conducted with secrecy ; that the fate of
; governments is disposed of; that ne\V
i republics are created and destroyed, are
mingled arid divided and their
constitutions, governments, &c. deter
mined on. It is there that the House of
Austria, having up. arms to destroy
the French Republic nas found means to
employ its troops in effecting its ambi
tious designs.
We.are affnred that the Directory has
nominated as Minister for Foreign Aff
airs, Talleyrand Perigord, the ex-confti
ruent; as minister of the Marine, L.
I loche, the ex-minister of the republic at
the court of Berlin 5 and as minister of
Justice, Defmuniers, the ex-constituent.
It is added, that the Directory will keep
Ramel as Minister of Finance.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Pout of Philadelphia.
ARiUVSD.
Ship Nancy, Wiggins, Portfmou'th, N. H.
Sch'r Two Brothers, Peirce, Boston 12
Sloop Madand, Waddle, Rhode-Island 5
Anna, Hunter, Portsmouth 12 >
Arrivtd at tht Fort. days.
Brig Jofephus, Willpns,, Martinico 21
Enterprize, Langdon, Kingston 25
A ftlip (name unknown) is below.
New Tori, Augujl 26.
I ARRIVE!).
Ship Severn, Fafrly, Hull,
Schr. Anna, Grown, St. Croix, 20
Ship Charlotte, London, 63
Ship Ohio, M'Lachlan, from this port bouud
Tor Gretnock, is taken by the French.
Ship Severn,capfain Fairly, failed from Hull the
9th of July—left there, v
Ship Apollo, ready to fail for New York,
Jofiph, cap?. Felt, to fail soon for do.
Hai riet and Eliza, ready to fail for Baltimore.
Brig Hannah, (hips Molly and Pallas, reluly to
fail for Philadephia^-
Brig Mercory, in a day or two for do.
Two Friendi, to fail in all July for do.
Cumberland, ready to fail fordo.
Ship Charlotte left London about i?th June,
Merchant was at Deal, July 9, wind S W.
'The Fiflar and Belviderc were te bear cut
the 15th July.
Spoke the ship Fame, of New Yorft, from St.
nbei, belonging to Mefftr. Lawrence and Van
Zandt
The John and Mary of Boflon, and tht Spe
culator of Lynn, are taken hy the Vengeur pri
vateer, near the Hunfoer ; the two lettter «re re
taken and arrivec at Hull.
Lloyd's Lift of the 17th June, mentirna that the
Arptrican fhipitheTwo Friends, the PoIIV. the
Peggy andjthe Crington, are taken by a Frthch
privateer a'id carried ftfo Malaga.
The Confederacy, capt. Jenks, from Canton
t» Hamburgh, it taken and carriedinto France.
*** Should any further
Intelligence come to hand by
the Mail of to-morrow > Juf
fciently important to demand
it, another paper will be pub
lijljcd to-morrow evening.
PHILADELPHIA,
SUNDAT FWNING, Augwst ay.
BOARD of HEAL TH.
Reportfrom the City Hos
pital, August 27, 1797.
Admitted—four.
Died—two.
Discharged—three.
Five new cases of con- •
tagion reported by two ,
Do&ors—No others re
ported.
The (hip Favorite, capt. Thompson, from
Hamburgh, has just arrived. She left 1
kamburgh the FIFTEENTH of July. ]
Captain T. has come up to town ; but we
have not been able to leant what '
he has brought.
If our Hamburgh,Correfpondent h as not
been nnufually remiss, we (hall be able,
fliortly, to lay before our readers some late
and important information, from this ab'
tHBNTic source.
Doctor Hunt,
PREfcnts his rtf. efts to the citizens of Phila
delphia, and the public, and informs them,
jjliat hejvv ill be happy to receive their commands as
a rH>»icu>t-SlLR8Ko!«, an d Man-Mjdwite. 1
0" Please to citT-st No. 6, Quctn-Hrcet, be
tween Fronti aai V»'»Rf^frr*^s,
July n. 1
[ lie follotuing is a carreS lift 'of intermentt
l from ncvn yf'crday to noon this day, obtain•
id from the Afmiflers and Sextans.
, , Christ Ciiurch.
* " None. . ' - ,
St. Peter's.
1 Grown perftTn.
St. Paul's. - •
2 Growa persons.
Swedes.
None.
Fir ft Prefbyteriatl.
None.
Second Presbyterian.
None.
Third Prcfbyterian.
I Grown person.
Scotch Prefbyter&n.
There have been no deaths in this con
gregation for the last five weeks'.
Seceders.
We were not able to obtain a lift of
the burials in this gronnd.
St. Mary's ChapeL
1 Grown person.
Trinity Church.
None.
Friend's Burial Ground;,
2 Grown persons.
Free Quakers.
1 Child.
Univerfalifti.
Noue.
German Lutheran
2 Children.
German Calvanifts.
None.
Moravians, -
T None.
Baptists.
None.
Methodists.
N on e*
Tews.
None.
Potter's Field.
3 Children.
City Hospital.
I Grown person.
14 Total for the lafl 24 hours.
N. B. The swedish corporation grants
interment to strangers more extensively than
several other congregations; and as many
are brought from distant parts of the city
and suburbs, the number of burials generally
has the appearance of greater mortality than
what is really in their own congregation.
Auguftsk
FAYETTEVILLE, Augiift 12.
_ On Wednesday last a pyblic dinner wag
given by the inhabitants of Fayetteville, to
the honorable William Barry Grove, the
representative in congress, from Fayette
ville diftrift, at colonel Dekeyfer's hotel,
and the following address delivered :
To the honorable IViliiam B. Grope ;
S I R,
THE inhabitants of Fayetterillc at all
times experience much pleasure dn your re
turn amongst them, after the discharge of
your duties as their representative : In that
discharge we have been ever ready toexpreft
our approbation by* the mjft unequivocal
marks of our regard for your public and
private charafter.
We are sensible, fir, that with us yon
must have ftrongty experienced the mo ft
painfnl sensations on the momentous ques
tions lately agitated in congress .• but in
cases of such doubt <and difficulty, you were
left to the iudependent exercise of your own
judgment ; your use of which, has in every
instance heightened our confidence.
With that deferende we ought to pay in
matters of politics, to the opinion pf. others
our fellow-citizens—be assured, fir, we
cord with those represented by ybu, at the
late session of congress.
To which Mr. Grove replied t
Accept, friends and fellow-citizens, the
sincere thanks of a heart glowing with gra
titude, for this new evidence of your friend
ly attachment and regard.
Your approbation of my condudt in con
gress, gives me reasonable hope, that that
conduit is not displeasing to my constituents
in general.
With you I have ibdeed felt painful anxi
eties on some of the momentous fubje&t
lately agitated in congress ; oh my part
those sensations were inoreafed, from the re
flection that I was responsible to my coun
try and constituents f<* all my public
and to exercise my judgment for the public!
good, has ever been the of my ear
ncft wilh.—l o merit the continuance of
your c onfidence and regard, will be my
greatest reward ; and in every situation it is
my desire to avoid becoming the tool of par
ty, the promoter of faftion, or the friend of
anarchy. W. B. GROVE.
After dinner the following toalU wer»
drank : , -
I-. The United States.
2. General Washington.
3. The President of the.United States.
4. The state of North-Carolina.
5. The. Executive of the state.
6. The memory of those heroes who fell
in defence of our liberties.
7. Our commissioners to the French re
public—success to their embafly.
8. The American revolution of 1776-
may oil revolutions like it, originate l'n neceC
fifey, be condudted with ardor, and terminate
in liberty and peace.
9. American independence —may it neve*
be fhakenby foreign influence.
10. Sharp meafnres to Blount traitors.
11. ThcMarquis La Fayette.
12. Patriotism .without party.
13. Judge Iredell—may the scales-
the fwofd of justice, never be influenced b*
a Calal.
14. The agriculture and commerce of thf
United States.
15. The freedom of the Press—may it
never be diTgraced by licentioufutfs.
16. The American Fair.
The day passed much to tho Jatiifa£U»»
of trery person prefen;.j aft pubMied,
Attc! to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. & P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Orinrod,
No. J, 1, Chefnut \re'et, and W. Y«unjr>
i-ornet of Chefnut and Second-flreeti,
An accurateSyftem of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAINFD,
,1. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concise,
and eafy'manncf.
2. The extraction of the square root.
3. Pliin trigonometry, rectangular and ob
lique. -
4. An exa£l method to call up the contents
#f lands.
J. Field farveying.
The whole being performed without the use
of scale and coijipafies, on a table of logarithms.
IVi which is given some account of the variation
of the needle, ar.d the causes of its attrition.
By SAMUEL MOOKE.
Aiipnft r. { iiwiif
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extract of an a<£t pa fled by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 19th December,
j 1791, entitled, " An ail for tredting a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'• And be it eruEted, that the said directors or
any two as them (hall and may require any sum
or furps of money in equal proportion,from each
and every pi cprietor, as may from time to time
be neciflTary for carrying on the building of said
bridge ; and after giving three months public
notice, it Ihall and may be lawful for the direc
tors to sue for and rtcover in the nahio of the
company inch unpaid requilitibn, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time the fame lhould have
been paid : And thejiegleft or refulal to pay any
luch requilition .vfcer public notice (hall have
been given at least for three months in all the
uewf;u|iers herein before enumerated, ihall have
the effedt to forfeit all preceding payments made
An the fharr or (hares so neglected or relufed to
be paid t i the use Snd benefit of the company."
niation of !uch(f the ftockh udders-as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—theyaieas follow: On the Ift November,
1795, io dollar", on the 10th lyiay, 1796, 40
dollars-; in the 20th Ju1y,'1796, 40dollars ; on
the jft September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
tiow given that after the expiration of the time
Jiriuted for the.'continuancc of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete against all delin
quents.
By order of theDireflore,
IV ALTER SMITH, Trtafurer.
Oeorpetown, Mav j, t797. raw 3m
Just R eceivcd,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boissof Spices, coiiGfting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and mace
For sale hy
IV&LINGS& FJUNCIS,
Penn.flreet.
May 30 def
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING bulled for feme time pad in prepara
tions for removing into his prafent house, has
be-n,uDdei-tHencceffityof poftpun'inguntil this ('ay
informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the Uaitcd States, that his fprirg importation of
law bocks is now arranged and ready for tale, en
terms that he trusts will <ntitle him to the like pre
freenie he has-experienced for leveral years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tlon ever imported iiuo 1 hit country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June 27. law 6w
City Commijfioners' Office,
June 12, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the fele<£t
and common councils, parted the 22d day of
May lafl, appointing the city commiffionerj,
and preferring their duties, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrilts,
«ach to be Under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commifiicnert, w hois to be individually
relponfihle for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow
Driftridl No. 1. From the south fide of Ce
dar-ftrt ct, to the north side-os Spruce-flrcet, un
der the superintendence of Nathan Boya.
2. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the fuper
intendance of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fideofWilnuf to ike south
fide of High-street, under the fuperinteruience ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north'fide of Higk-JJreet, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
tV £dr-of Vine-street, under the fuper
jntendence of Nicholas Hicks- f
Thecleaningof High-street to be in common.
£*T A ftatrd meeting of the city commiflion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
July 14. J eolm
Standt for Draymen, (
In pursuance of an Ordinance from the Sclefl and
Common Councils,bearing date tie 2id day of
April, 179), providing fir the appointment of
City Cammijfitners, <3e. Seft. the lstb.
THE' following places are fixed upon by the
said City Commiflioriers for Stands for
Drayman and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eaitward of Front-street, on
both fides.
SafTafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
«aflfl>ard of Front-flreet, on the north fide only.
Mulberry-street, Jauth fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-street, east fide from Vine-street to
alley-
Front-Ureet, from opposite to Black Horse al-
Jey to Hamilton's flores, east fide.
"VValer-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to CeJar-ftreet, weft
fide. ,ii
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Kne and South streets,' east of J-'rost
street, south l'de.
Dock-street, between Walnut-ftrect and the
flag llor.e croflings, east ftde, opposite George
Orklev's.
Second-street, between SaflVras and Vine
itreets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Saffafras-ftreft, from Third to Fourth-street,
east fide.
No dray or hcrfe to stand within ten feet of
anv putnp.
STANDS FOR HACK NET COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
streets. r 1
Fifth-ftriet, between Chefnut and Walnut
jlreets, weft. .
Branch-street, north fide,between Third and
fourth streets. *
July H- mw&fxm
A Literary Treat.
JuJt pui/i/heJ, handfnmdy printed on writing
paper, price 1 dollar,
A new edition of that popular and enttrtaining
work, antitled
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale j being
a sequel to the hiflory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
tranfa&ioni in America.
The following extraift from the Clavis Allegories,
fhews-lhe principal characters that are introduced:
John Bull,rhe Kingdom of England
Hi< Mother, the 01 urch of England
His Wife, the Parliament
His 'lf cr Pi g, the C hurch of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of -France
Hii Miflrefs, the Old Constitution
His new Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dlitch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Forefter3, the United btutesof America
Robert Lumber, New-Kamplhire
John Codline, Massachusetts
Humphrey Plowshare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode liland
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Cifcfar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia ~-
His Grandson, GeoVge Walhington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina 1
George Trulty, Georgia '
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
This popular and entertaining fatirieal hifte
ry of Annrica is attributed to the Rev. Dr Bel
knap. It hasa great share of originality and a
ho«nds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and charadterifes those
late political tracfactions which have caused so
Much uneasiness in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Markt' ftjeet.
Juoe 26. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. Iff P. RICE) Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. Market street,
HAVE just received by the 1 v.e arriva's from
London and Dublin, theii Ipring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and most
approved 1 aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most extensive colledion ev
er offered for fa'e in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to notity, that trom the nature of their
connedicnsin Dunlin, they are enabled to felllrifh
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices. The following ace among the latelt
publications.
Vefey, jun'rt Reports in Chancery, 2
Peake's Cases at Nift Prius ; Rfdgeway's Reyorts
in the time of Lord Hardwicke j Floyer's Probers
Practice is the Eccfeftadical Courts; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Actions, 2
parts comfflete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 12 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rici cxpedt t« receive by the fird ar
rival from New-Y»rk the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and Eafl's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new puMicatious.
June 26.
The History of Pennsylvania,
Bv ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by Zi-CH '.-
RrAH Poulsok, jun.,No. So, Chefnut-ftrect,
Phil*deiphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to tbe printed projufals, until the
work is ready for the fublcribera.
July i 8. aawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
A'«. 8 Cbefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly ailbrted, very low on
Ihort credit.
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE retrieved their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
/ uguft 1. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijbufgh Carli/le,
Shtppenjburg and Stwbury
STAGES.
THE public are reqiutfted to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has far some time sub
sided between Mathias Slouglv of Lancader, and
William Geer, is now diftblved ; but, not as M.
Slough infuiaatesto the public without jnd cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter 011 the fuh
je<St from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, hy applying to W. Geer may have
the pcrufal «f M. Slough's letter, and then cyi be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly jaftifiabie ih attaching him--
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Npw from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the fird effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined,
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can pbfiihly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horfei, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform I
those wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the figji of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancader, Harrifburg, i
Carlifla and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, ih Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and fcturn from theoce and arrive at Harrifburj
every Saturday, so that piflengers dedined for
Lancaftcxor Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon-
WILLIAM .GEER.
I.ancafler. Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from the
house of William in Lancader, on every
Tuelday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to (he westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wsdncf
day mormng, on the fame evehing arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, -r.ffd returns
Trom thence on every performing the
; fame routine daily lour from Philadel
phia. - aiwf
City of Wafhingtoii.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the 'lmprovement of the Federal City.
A magnificent 4welling-houfe 20,000 dollars,
& calh .lojooo, ire 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cadi »5,00® 40,0041
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 30,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
t ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 io,oeo
1 cash prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 ' • 10,00 c
to do. 500 - - 10.000
00 do. 100 - • 10,0110
100 do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. »5 - 10,000
1,000 do. i-K 1 - 40,000
15,000 do. 10 - r50,000
16,739 Prizes.
34,161 Hlmks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour thofewh© may take a quan
tity of Tisftets,the prize of 40,009 dollar i will be
the last drawn ticket, and.the 30,000 the last
but jon e :
notes, femring payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter'drawing, will
be received for any number not lets than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpetirten ef
the private buildings to be ereiled in the City of
Waftington—Two beautiful defigos are already
(cleAed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares j ffom these drawings it is proposed to erefl
two centre and 'our corner buildings as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to cenvey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
themannct drfcribed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedufftion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &e.' and the surplus. will be made ? part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be ereded within the city of Walhington. '
The real securities given for the payment of the
Briaes, are held by the Prefiderit and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
mere than hplf the »mount of the lottery.
SAM JBL BLODOET. '
Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Oilman, Bolton ; of Juhn Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Ricbard W.lls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
From tie Otfego Herald,
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination of men in this
county have undertaken to enrich thsm
felves.by fabricating titles tofundr/ valuable trads
of land, tbe property of gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for *hich
traiU of la ltd large funis of money have been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers ■
It is thertLre just that public information should
Ue given, to the end, that the injured may seek re
dress while the nsen have property, and are to be
found. Those who have be«n discovered are Tru
man Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, saul now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several other! who go under fi&itioi.. names. It is
supposed that the lands offered ftr falaon those fa
bricated titles, are at least worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we have afiual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and 12, Otfega patent,
thrufand acres each,the afltial property of William
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chaumonr, now of Paris, and lames Avenll
and others, ot this State. There is some grounds
to sUppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.—The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing thpfe lands, as also to de
prive those men in future from imposing on indivi
duafs, which their education and address have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a ihopkeep«r of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will set in a clear point
of view the wickrdnef# of those men, which when
the public have perused, will induce them to cx
cufc the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 28th, 1797.
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
ing been led irto an error, by John Witcomb ansl
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for Idt No. 58, Otfego patent, whioh
was the property of William T. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others ; and further the said Joseph
and Truman did persuade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the icth day
of November, 179.3, or let back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and fuhher the name of
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fi&itioift nam?,
there being no such person there. To this 1 make
yoluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 1797, cameperfpnally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the fubferiber to the above af
fidavit, and made f jlemn octh that it contains noth
ing but the truth.
ELIHU PHIMNEY, Justice of the Peace.
On the 18th July, 1797, came before me Jacob
Kibby, a person by me well known and worthy of
good credit, who on his folcmn oath did fay, that
two of the parties abovetnentioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, some tjnte in the
winter of 1796; to make them a deed for two thou
sand acrtt of land in the Otfgo patent, and pro
mised this deponent a (hare of the profits, on the
sale of said lands, for his so doing and thut they
made application several times for thd fame purpo'.e,
which fervicss this deponent as often refufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
coulddo no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related a*nong his
friends fevfral times, previous to making this affi
davit. JACOB KIBBEY.
Sworn before me, v
ELIHU PHINNEY, Jufticeof the Peace. 1
Aii". 3. I»W4W.
I'hirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service of the fubferiber,
on the 19th inflant, a negro man by the
name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
and five feet nine ten inches high ;by trade
a carpenter, aud is a very lively brilk work
man. His countenance is very good—When
fpnkcn to, he converses with ease and confi
dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchased
the said fellow of Mr. Dubney Minor, in whose
name he has been advr rtifed ir, the Uichmppd
newfpapeVs- During his lafl runaway trip (last
fummerj he was employed a considerable length
of time, by foine person near Dumfries, from
which circumflance, I conjeflure, he has taken
another nothern route I forewarm all perfens
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof veffelsand others, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward wdl be given if he is taken within forty
miles of this city; and an additional sum, in
proportion to the distance he may be brought,
or the trouble and expince the apprehender maj'
be at, in bringing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His apparclwas of the ul'ual negro kind,
but he had more cloaths than is customary for
them to poflefs.
AD.
Richmond, June n, 1797«
Will be Landed,
From on board the (hip A&ive, Capt. Blair,irom
Hamburgh,
ft© bales white Rnffta clean Hemp
2 tasks Clover Seed
For Sale by jf
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
Nortel Fifth street, No. 34.
Tune 26. f
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second flreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, Mo. 11, which
commenced draw ing the 19th May, FO,R
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firil drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, ori the kft day of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. t, City of Washington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomcn Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing ia the course of the ftimmer.
The bufinefs'Of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed with the
utmost attention.
June 2 tufcf
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Sourh Second street,
[Price 31 Cents J
A Viaw of the Cau/es and Consequen
ces of the preffent War with Franc/:.
. By the Honorable Thomas Ekskine.
May 15 §
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W. Younc, Bookseller, No. sn, South Se
cond-street,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONfaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. yoI. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aflfoi'tmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well allotted,and entitled to the drawback if
axportpd. July y— *
rHESUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Minilter Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majetty, General
for aflifting British creditors, and such particular a
gents a* they may specially authorise, in profeeuting
their claims before the c«mmiflioners for carrying in
to effeft the fixih article ot the Treaty of Amity, Cvm
mtrcc and Navigation between his Britannic b'ajejly arid
tht United States $f America, hereby gives nonce that
he hw opened his office at his house the south e.tfl
| coiner of Chefnut and fifth ftrects, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or inttrutiions
, for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
i for-the purpose Of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which board may
| think proper to prescribe.
Ana as it will be lor the interest of all concerned,
| that the several claims be so Rated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the neceflity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from persons residing at a diflance,
; the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direftion chiefly of thofr, who, not having employ
, ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought ia particular to set forth—
tft. The proper description and fitnation cf the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpett
-1 ively.
ad. The date andnature of the original contrast or
1 debt. ( 4
3d. W' ».i, in what manner, and to what extent,
! the creditor or claimant w«.s prevented or impeded.
I by the provision, operation or defe& of law, the
decisions and practice of courts, or restraint of exe-
I cution, from recovcriog payment of the debt in
question*
4th- The loss and damage incurred or sustained,
in confequer.ee of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from tbe iofolveney, change of
(jiuation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufes impairing
the value and fecur'ityof tbe debt, which would not
havefo operated if such impediments had notexifted.
And sth The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinery course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor atino: now obtain and asual!y
have and receive full and adequate compenfatioa" for
the losses and damages so fultaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
ged that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
I wovn and regularly atteHed, both as to the
of the debts claimed, and such other circumftancfs
as may be within thcij- own knowledge relpe&ively.
And wherever the claimants in Rating the nature of
their evidence (which mud in every inllance be the
bed of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
rtfer to the teftimoriy of witnefles, it will be proper
to apprifethe general agent of the names and places
of residence of l'uch witneflestmd thefafUto be elta
blifhcd by their testimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth. 1797. d
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vandkgrift's
F » R R Y,
ON Nefharoi»y creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
preir.ifes are a large two Aery stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one flory stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threlhing
floor, and lome oat buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation for a gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jnnftion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Snbfcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
May id. 3tawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIPGE with fnocli pleaf
ureand /qfpeifl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and afiures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, ihe has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
fch^lars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpedlive profrfiiohs.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
Thj situation is perfeflly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoiningtlie house.
fujl Pvbli/hed
And to be had of MefTrs. DoV»fon, Campbell,Rice,
Gary, and the other pricipal Boolcfellers in the
city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN BaUtCN, m. d.
June sc. •
No. 183.
DyhiS of Penn/ylvania, to wit :
l. s. "K E IT REMEMBERED, that on thtf
J. J fifteenth day of June, in the twenty
firft year of the Independence of the United
States of America, Jamts Woodhous l --, of
the laid diftritf, hath depolited in this office the
title of a book, the right whereof he claims as
author, in the \vord9 following, to wit
" The Young Chemist's Pocket Companion,
" being- a Dtfcription of a Portable Labaratory,
" containing a Philosophical apparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Agents, by which
" any person inay perform an endless variety ojf
" aniulitigand inllnicfling Experiments, defmn
" ed lor the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chemistry in the United Stales of
" -America. By J.AMt s Woodhouss, M. D.
" ProfelTir of Chetr iftry, in the Univerfny of
"Pennsylvania. President of the Chemical So
" cietv of Philadelphia, &c.
«' At present every fhing that is not denomi
" nated Chemistry, is but a small part of a fyf
" tem of natural knowledge.
Priestly on Air "
In conformity to the aa of the Congress of the
United States, intituled, « Anafl for the encour
agement of Learning, by fecurifigthe copies of
piaps, charts, and bookj to the authors and pro
prietors of such copies,'during the time» there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diftrjifl of Pennsylvania.
July 18. d^t—wstf
NO. I 8 3. "
Dijlrid of Pennsylvania, to <wit ;
(l. s ) RK MKMBERE4 that on the
-13 twenty futh day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of t ie said dif
tri<a,hath deposited in this office the title ofahook,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
" O'nfervations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of "The Hiflcry of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" of speculation, againtl Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treefury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf "
In conformity to'he ad of the Cnrgrcfs of the
Ucited State?, entituled, " An.aA for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and hooks to'the authors ants propri
etors of such copies, during the times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dijhrift of Pemfsl'van'a.
July 27• \v4\y
Public Notice is hereby given,
r T" I HATat June term, 1797, a petition wab
X presented to the Court of Common Pleas,
held at York Town, in the State of Pcnnfyjva
nia, at the instance as James Short, pra
the Court to supply a loft deed made by j'cer"
tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
James Morrifon, and John Sample, executor*
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred-'
— acres of Land, situate in Meiullen
townlhip, in the county of York .-—All per
sons who have any objeflions to make to the ob
jefl of the said petition are defircd to attend at'
the Court House, in tfie town of York, on the
jth day of September next, otherwise the loft
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
7»'j '*• ' e»tS5
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Sen
vants, GiflfordDally, a mulatto boy,about
years of age, a Aim light built active fellow, can
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
and trowfer?, a high crowned hat, fine fhocs &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 24 years of
age, five fee' seven or eight inches high, a thick set
clunfy built fellow, particularly about the breech;
had on a sailor's blue jackift lined with fwanlkiti,
dark striped vest, fufliau trowfers. high crowned
hat, coaffe shoes, See.; each of then> had several
ftirts and several other cloathes-with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways or 15 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, oh delivering
them at No. J4, North Third-street.
Ihe black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of Sufiex, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
J u 'y 3*- mtu&f^w
CAUT IO N* 1
"VTTHEREAS Richard Lake has been at-
VV . tempting to fell a certain ten
ement and lot of ground, situated on thefouth
fide of Vine-fttreet, in the city of Philadelphia
containing in breadth, on Vir.e-ftreet. fixreea
feet, and in depih, fcuthward, seventy five feet,
bounded on north fide by,Vine-ftieet, on
theeaft by ground late of Samuel Rhodes and
Sarah his wife, on the south by ground late of
Jj>Jm Pemberton, and on the weft lot
then about to be granted to Joseph Hulings
This is therefore to caution all persons against
purchifing the aboye described property, the
fame having been mortgaged by the said Rich
ard Lake to William Spade.
SARAH SPADE.
J u 'y U eoay
Mufual lnftrwnent ManufaStory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, hnrpfichord,grand, portable grand,
fid .'-board, pier table and fqualre piaro for:e
makcrfrona London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by hisafliduity and attenticn to ev
ery branch of his ) ufinefs, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes )hade on the newift
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp stop, .flitch he flattei#.
himfejf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to import
ed, and twenty per cent ehea-per. Any inllru
m int purclmfed of 1 im, if not approved of ins
twelve month?, he will exchange.
N.B. All kinds of iViufical lnftraments
uned, and iepi:red with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the molt reasonable terms, lLr
ready money only.
Seco-nd hand Piano Forte« taken in exchange.
May ic. Siim.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from the fubferiber Q|i the fecg
ond diy of this init. July, a Mulatto .Man,
named-Will Bowzer, about forty yisps of age,
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky made ; had oa when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers 4
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
la id fallow formerly belonged to Mr, Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expeiled he has
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State. —Any person apprehending the feid fel
low, and securing him so that I can get him a>
gain, ftiall receive the above reward if taken
out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the cftunty, and all reasonable charges if bro't
home.
JESSE REED,
Qneen Ann's County, Maryland.
J ul * J- ' Wit