of tijc anb Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1613.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS.
C Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. f6,
j.■ , j south Front-street,
j Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
£ South Front-street.
f" Forenoon—John Connetly, Old City
3 Auflion, No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
y j Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
(, 183 High-street.
f tsmszS** *"■"
m t, C Forenoon—Edward Fox.
Thursday | Afternoon-John Connelly,
j. . , ) Forenoon—William Shannon.
r! 5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
United States, "J -.
Pennsylvania Dijlriß,y
rN pursuance of a writ to me direAed from the
honorable Richard Peters, Esq. Judge of the
Diftridt Court of the United States in and for the
PennfylvaniaDiftriit, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the Custom-house, in the city of Phi
ladelphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at ii o'clock
at noon,
2 hampers of Earthen Ware
1 box of Indigo
1 bex of Merchandize
1 half barrel do.
10 bags of Coffee
1 barrel of Silt Petre
x barrels )
1 keg >- of Linens
1 trunk 3
I barrel of Sugar
x bag «f Pepper, and
Part of 3 bags of Sugar
Th« ame having been libelled against, prosecuted
and condemned as forfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
MarJhal.
Marshal's Office, \
ad November, 1707. \ dtS
United States, 7 tr
Peunfylvania Di/lricl, j-"
IN pursuance of. a writ to mc directed from the
honorable Riciiard Piters,Efi}. Judge of the
Diftridl Court of the United State#, in and for the
Pennsylvania Diftrid, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the Cultom hoiife in the city of Phila
delphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at it o'clock,
at boon,
354 Silver Watches
30 gold Watches
500 Watch Keys
The fame having been libelled against, profeeuted
and condemned as forfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Matjhal.
Marihal's Office, ?
*d November, 179;. j dtS
lo be Sold', by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the 13th day of November next,
at 11 o'clock in the forenoon, at the late dwel
ling plantation of Alexander PoßTta.Efq.
deceafed,in the Hundred and County of New-
Castle,
All the Stock of the said Farm,
Coniilling of horses fit for draught or saddle,
colts, fat cattle, milch cows, calves, several
pairs of large and valuable oxen. £heep and
hogs (all the horned rattle and (heep, being ps
a very large and fine breed) and also carts, har
rows, ploughs, and other farming utensils, to
gether with a variety of houfehnld furniture.
The conditions of Sale will be made known,
at the time and place aforefaid.
Mary Porter, Admrx. '
New Castle Hundred, State of )
Delaware, o<ft. ao, 1797. )
£5" All persons indebted to the estate of the
said Alexander Porter, are requtfied to make
payment, and those who have demands against
the fame, to produce them duly authenticated,
for settlement.
OA. 30. dtS
For Sale, by the Package,
For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
viz.
Book and Jaconet Muflini plain
stripes, and Checks • Aflbrted in
do. do. Tamboured S ,
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, 4t | a S"'
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz muslin f*r home and the Weft
India market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purpl* and
chintz shawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few scotch tambricks and an
aflortment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above being aconfignment
from the manufaSurers in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackburn'
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. fl. nwrf.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If n»t before difpoftd of at private sale)
f~\N Friday, the firft of December next, it fix
Vy o'doek in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or late in the County of Walhington, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and m the waters of
Irelh and Wheelieg Creeks,and Ten Mile Run.—
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and were
vatentced early in 1787, except 3700 acres ortherea
boats, which were patented in 179 a. One fourth
of the purchase money t® be paid at the time of sale,
f or the residue a credit of one, two and three months,
will be given, on interest and good feturity.
Qfloher 6. 3»wtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before Sfpofed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the firlt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
wn Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna, now, or late,
in the townships of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery- One foarth of the p'rehafe
money is to oe paid at the time of sale ; for the re
sidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
riven, on interest and good security.
Oaofle 6. 3' wtS
Wanted, to Hire,
A I.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of th\ city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
lease for a longer term. Inquire of lh» Printer.
OA. 17. eotf
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 9, 1797.
For Sale or Charter,
agflkn GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about 1100 barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
■■"SKatf apply to
Pragers i£ Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who hare for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Liflboji, and Tcneriffc wine.
November dtf.
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very firft quality, in pipes, hhds. and
quarter calks, just landed from the foip Edward,
from Madeira, and for sale by
JOHN CRAIG,
No. 12, Dock-street.
JVHO HAS FOR CHARTER,
fcjSillv CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about 1100 barrels,
j n (i hoyg <jown and put in com
plete order, and now ready lo receive a cargo.
A If,, For SALE or CHARTER,
JP OS£ H U S,
Burthen about 1800 barrels.
nevember 6. flawtfo
For Liverpool,
X~«— The Ship
CLOTHIER,
J Nathaniel D. Gardner, majler,
fail about the 15th
VV inft. For freight or pas
sage apply to the Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf,
or to JAMES OLDDEN,
nov. 3. dtf No- 41, N. Front-street.
I 1 or London,
t/Mbt THt fiUin
WILLIAM VENN,
James Jofiah, Majler,
TT TILL fill with all coaven-
YV ; ent expedition. For
Freight or PalTage, apply to the Captain, or to
JeJfe iff Robert Wain.
OA. 31. $
For London,
i\jr2"v. ™ E sHip
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler.
TO fail with all convenient speed—a confiderfr
ble part of her cargo being already engaged.
For terms of Freight or PalTage, apply to
Rofs iff Simfon.
OA. »7. S
For SAVANNAH,
THI FAST SAILING SHIP
Swift Packet,
- • atr ' Gribbin, Majler.
' ~ NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
above Raee-ftreet. Is haodfome
ly accommodated for pailengers, and will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paiTage,apply
to the Mailer en board, or at No. 95, South
Front-street, or of the fubferibers,
N. iff J. Frazier.
OA. »8. dtf
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edfvard, from Madeira, and Betfcy and
Peggy, from Oporto, in Pipes and Hogsheads,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALI,
iNSKL am 1T r '
Four thousand barrels burthen,
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
LIKEWISE,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above vessels at South ftrcet
wharf. eoim. Nov. 1.
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State? and now landing from on hoard the
Brig A.stive, William Williams, Matter,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept. 21. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
a "° f°'' Sale or Charter, and
now read y t0 receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
For Charter,
THE SHIP
John Bulkley,
Samuel Volans, Majler.
veflcl is built of live eak
. x and cedar, of about 3000
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
Je/fe iff Robert Wain.
oa. jl. $
For Freight or Charter,
|KO, THE GOOD BRIG
I^ alc Vredenbprg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's wharl, and in compleat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain «n board, or
John Slyrrn,
No. 81, Arch-street.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bulhels of Tinwthy Seed
150 cafer of Claret, firft quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 29. dtf
By John Fenno, N° ii 9 Chefnut Street
For Amsterdam,
f—«=& The Ship
WILMINGTON,
Captain Hilman ;
\ Staunch, fall failing, Phi-
XJL ladelphia built veflcl, of
live oak and cedar, is now in complete order, and
will fail Wth ail poflible speed, having |[reat part of
her cargo* already engaged. For freight or pas
sage (having excellent accommodations) apply to
the captain on board, or to
Summerl Brown.
Who have in hand,
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
biles, and a few thousand weight of excellent Cor
dage, including several Cables of 8$ kll inches.
novemher 3. tuthistf
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice m whole and half tiertes -
Bqurdeaux Brandy
Tenerijfe Wine
Malaffes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Raveni Duck and tne bogjhead of paiit
brujhes.
N. ts* J. Frazer. 1
No■ 95, Sontb Front Street.
Nov. 7. dim.
Drawing & Painting Academy,
No. 63, Walout-flrec:.
JAMES COX,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and the
generous public, that his icademy opens this
day. November the 6th.
Hours of tuition for ladies, from 4 till 4 ia the
afternoon, and in Ihe evenisg from 6 till 8 for
gentlemen.
J Cox has add«d to his collection of copies a va
riety of fine views, &c. drawn from nature during
his ahfcnce from the city:
All kinds of colours prepared, and every article
used in the different branches of drawing and
painting, fold on reasonable terms.
Terms of Tuition, Six Dnilan uni a half per
quarter.
A morning class for grown ladies, frrom 11 till
12 o'clock. d3t nn. t.
A Negro Man.
F'OR SALE, the unexpired time (four years)
of a stout, healthy, a<stive Negro Man. Ha
is by trade a Cooper, was brought up when a boy
to the farming business, isa good ploughman, un
derftandsthe care and management of horses, and
is a good driver He has lately been employed in
painting a new honfe and paints well—ke is good
tempered, and believed to be very honest, fold part
ly for want of employ,but more for being addict
ed to liquor—For terms apply to Mo. it, Dock
street, near Spruce street.
Nov. 6. tf
TO BE LET—At a moderate Rent,
The principal part of a HOUSE,
WITHIN afbort diflanoe of the Coffee-houfe,
which has been occupied fir the lalt four months,
confiding of a good dining room and parlour, two
bed rooms and a drefling room, two garrets, kitch
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent prder,
fit for the immediate reception of a small family.
None need apply but those who are refpe&able and
regular. Inquire at the office of this Cazettc.
Oft. «4■ dtf
James iff Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
llore to No. 54, South Front jirtet, next door to Ed
ward Fox's Auction Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general assortment of
European & EaJl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Pcsn, &c. Sic.
OA. 27. (
St. Croix Sugar Iff Rum>
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON 6f Co.
OA. 16. daw.
Samuel Pleafants Iff Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlreet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. Oil 17. —4W
ROSS iff SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE)
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, ia bags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
OA. 17. §
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at >fo. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. 0&. 27. —dtf
■—
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Guftavus Adolphus,from
Marseilles, cor,lilting of the following articles,
is difchsrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fubferibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hog(heada
Ditto, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases of 30 bottles
dive Oil, of a superior quality, in baskets of 6
and 11 bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
Dry Verdigreift
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of jB, 30 and 31 inches
TafTeties
Long and Ihort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madrafs
•Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feather*
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatam
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Also,
1-00 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and for sale by
the iubl'criber, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
novemher 6. eotf
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR 'SALE,
At his Store, No. 25, Great Dock-street,
250 bales of Bengal Goods
Containing Baftas
Coflas
Gurrahs
Moragugungees
Tookery
Check and Stripes
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Mamoody
Calicoes
II boxes Irifli Linens
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
»o canisters Java Sugar
78 bags black Pepper
1%6 do. East India Ginger
100 calks roll Brimstone
7c pipes Madeinf Wine
5 7 casks Gin
A quantity of sheathing Copper and Nails.
OAobcr 30. 3aw3w
j For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brown Ilolhnds
White Sheetings
Dowlafles
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siimoufes
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glafsl Tumblers, and Looking GlafTes, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
no'vember 6. eod3W
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE NOw OPENING,
At their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefli
assortment of Woolen and other goods, suitable to
the season, received by the late arrivah from Eng
land.
Tbei have also for Sale,
Lisbon
Sherry, 'and ( In P'P"> hh<l »- " d quarter calks-
Port Wines, 3
Assorted queen's ware in crates, See.
loth mo- 23d. dlw3taW3W.
FOR SALE;
ar the irsicaistit, No. »f, Pcnn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Confining of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs ©uzzey do.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tan jibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Mftiaragonges Patoa Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bandannoas
Gurrahs Siflerfojr
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various colours
Mock Pulicats
20c tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings iff Francis.
ij In the course of a few days, the PIECE
GOODS, compofli/g the cargo of thsfliip Ganges,
will be exposed for fait at that large commodious
Store, the northwest corner of Market and Fourth
ftreetv where a bale of every species of Good, will
be open. d OA. 31..
FOR SALE, ~ L "
81~ THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Lilbon WINE, in pipes
CLOVES and 7 r u i n .
NUTMEGS \ • importation, in boxes
Spaniih Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Willings isf Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. 21.
Nov. I. w&stf
Just arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the fubferi
bers, No. 21, Penn-flreet,
(42 hogsheads,")
/.US ? Prime Coffee
646 bags J
Willings iff Francis.
OA. 28. §
LANDING,
From on board the Ihip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from London,
60 toas of the best clean Ruflia
HEMP
60 rafts of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet.
Willings isf Francis.
Oil. 31. d
ToiTsale,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front ftrects,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, confiding of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work; Bells, clock aad watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glades, Pu nice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, flaad and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &C.
* # * Apprentices Wanted,
november 3. fictutf
REMOVAL.
*
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, Glals, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east
corner of Cherry Alley, where he foiicits the fa
vor of his former cuOomers.
N. 8. Crates put up with core at the Ihorteft
notice.
Nevember 2. dtf
POSTPONED SALE.
CC/* On account of the rain on Saturday
' c ' v ening, the Sale of Notes which was
then to take place, was postponed to
EVENING, Nov. 9,
at 8 o'clock, at the Merchant's Coffes
House. At which time and place
Will be Sold at Public Auction,
doll, cts,
I Note drawn !iy James Grccnlesf
in favour of and endorsed by Edward
Fox, dated 9th August, 1796, due nth
O&ober luit, j,JOO
3 do. drawn by said James Green
leaf in favor of and endorsed by Ed
ward Fox dated sth *UfuCl, 1796, at
4 months date, j payment dots. 2681
13, 1681 14, and 2681 14, amount
together g 04;1 4I
3 do. do. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed asafor?faid, payable in eight
months, payment*,dols. 1693 75 each,
amount together ~ 8081 ij
3 do. do. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed as aforefaid, payable in 11
months' payments, dols. 2693 75*ach,
amount together 8,081 is
2SJOS 91
I draft drawn bv Robert Morris on
John Nicholfon, dated zßthMay, 1796,
at i» months ' ' 5000
1 do. drawn as aforefaid, at two
years 5000
I do. drawn by John Nichol
fon, onßobert Morris,dated 28th
May, 1796, at 3 ) ears socx»
1 do. drawn as aforL-faid, at 4
year. joo o
v - 40,000
The said drafts are secured by (hares
in the North America Land Company
and endorsed by James Greenleaf
I Note dated Boston, 18th May,
r 7vt, drawn hy Thomas Dawes, jun.
in favor of Thomas Gieenleaf, paya
ble ift January, 1798, endorsed by Da
niel Greenleaf, Henry Newman and
Jafnes Greenleaf 22J0
I do. dated Boston, 18th Nov. 1995,
drawn by Daniel Greenleaf, in favour
of Thomas Dawes, jun. payable ift Jan.
l79B,eudorfcd by Thomas. Greenleaf,
Henry Newman, and James Greenleaf 6500
3 Notes, dated Boston, 17th Nov.
1795, drawn by Benjamin Halkell, in
favour of James Greenleaf, payable ill
January, 1799, endorsed by said James
Greenleaf and Nahum Fay, dols. JJOO
ijoo—l©oo Bom
3 do. dated Boston, 17th Nov. 1795,
drawn and endorsed as aforefaid, paya
ble ift Jan. 1800, one payment, dols.
6200,5000,4000 15400
One bond, Zachariah Cox to James Greenleat
and afligned by him, dated the lift March, 179,-,
in the sum of ten thousand dollars, conditioned for
the conveyance of 25000 acres of Land, near the
town of Frederica in Glyn county and state cf
Georgia, the said bond full due.
John Connelly, auftioncer.
November 6.
FOR SALE, -
By the Suiscribrr, at his Store, No. 75, South
Water-street,
A general assortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. LHteftrings
Do. d». Handkerchief*
Do. do. sewing Silks
Imperial and IJyfon Teas
Long and Ihort Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Assorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna S»gars, in bosta
Mobiles in hoglheads
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in thefts
Logwood, &c. &c.
miv. 7—tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
' Landing,
From on board the ship Edward, at Walnut
ftreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
•f a foperior quality, For Sale by the fubfcribcr.
Robert Andrews.
November j. eotf
For sale by the Subscriber.
No. 89, South Third street,
A few calks of high proof Brandy
60 Tierces freih Rice
40 Boxes of Chocolate
A large quantity of alTorted window glass, and
aoo pieces fail cloth, No. 1 to 8|
Ravens Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal.
Samuel Breck, Jun.
N. B An excellent Compting House to let on
Rufls's wharf.
November» 6teod
POYNTELpi *
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
Wbtrt he has for Sale,
AVF.RY extensive stock, ef every colour, and
of the moll approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
1 "A L S 0
A handsome assortment of the most fafbionafele
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very bed pain Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety of Borders.
Nevember I. eo6t
N 0 7 I C E. *
The holders of certificates of a
loan to the exiled citizens of the State of South Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an aft of Congress 23d
July , 1781, are informed, that by lodging the fume
with George Simpfon, Calhier of the Baak of the
United States, they will be enabled to receive pay
ment of principal and interest, asfoon as the certi
ficates can be forwarded to Charleston for settle
ment, and orders received for their discharge.
November I.
Walker 6c Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALF,
100 Hoglheads of prime Georgia Tobaccc>
ALSO,
50 Fipes of Bont Heaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port Wir.c
Od>. 17.
[Vol vme, XII.Xijt ;
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 9.
/- ,
futr th: Gazette of States. ,
TO THE PUBLIC.
Continued from Monday's Gazette.
Dr. Currie in his " Information refpejft
ing Dr. Ruth's coridudt" &c. proceeds 111
the following manner :
" Those acquainted with the causes and
laws of contagion thought him insane.
" At other titties he promised a removal
of the infectious effluvia, with which he af
fcrted the whole atmosphere was loaded, as
soon as a heavy rain fliould fall. An opin
ion as groun'iefs as any that ever was gene
rated in a whimsical brain."
Tlie following extract from a letter writ
ten'by Mr- Clarkfon, then mayor of the ci
ty, to the mayor of the eity of New-York,
is a proof.that Dr. Rulll was not miltaken
in hi' 3 prediction of the effedts of rain in
checking the fever of 1793.
" The refrefhing rain which fell the day
before yesterday, though light, and the
cool weather which hath succeeded, appear
to have given a check to the prevalence of
the disorder ; of this we have fatisfactory
proof ; as well in the decrease of the fune
rals, as in the applications for removal to the
hQfpital."
There was no rifl: in this prediction.—
tnftances of the similar effects of rain upon
bilious fevers are to be met with in many of
the writers Upon epidemics. Eveu Dr.
Currie has fubferibed to it, as the following
extradt from his history of the diseases of the
United States will (hew—See p. 105. —
" Fewer diseases prevail in Autumn, when
the ground is frequently refrejhed by flow
ers, and the ponds are rcpleniihed with
■water, than in dry ones." We also
fee the fame idea held out in page
64. of his 2d pamphlet on the Synochus
Idteroides—" Nor does it (fays he, mean
ing this fever) agree in its effedt with the
miasmata, which arise from putrifying sub
stances, or from a tnarfhy foil in any one cir
cutnftauce, except being extiriguilhed by
Cold and frofty, and perhaps rainy weather."
In a late letter also to Dr. Latimer, he has
asserted the fame. It appears from these
quotations, that Dr. Carrie's brain is not
only whimsical, but versatile too, and that in
a very high degree.
The next charge against Dr. Ru(h by Dr.
C. is as follows.
« In speaking of his exploits in a letter
addressed to Dr. Rodgers, dated Odtober
3cK after accusing most of the physicians of
the city of ignorance and obstinacy, he adds,
« by means of the remedies before mention
tioned, I think I have been the unworthy
inftrumeut in the hands of a kind provi
dence of recovering more than 99 out of a
100 of my patients before my late indispo
sition from the want of bleeding and purg
ing. Since tlie 10th of September, I have
found bleeding in additiou to the mercurial
purges necessary in 19 aafes out of 20. At
firft I found the loss of 10 or 12 ounce?
fnfficicnt to subdue the pulse, but I have
been obliged gradually as the season advanc
ed to encreafe the quantity to 60, 70 and 80
ounces."
" So much was the doftor about this pe
riod possessed witj» the notion that he was
the only man of common sense existing, that
he not only refufed to consult with any but
hisformerpupiliwhofubmittedtoobey his dic
tates, that he rudely intruded hi* advice up
on other people's patients ; he also appoint
ed two illiterate negro men and Cent them in
to all the alleys and bye-places in the city,
with orders to bleed and give his sweating
purges as he empirically called them, to all
they should find sick without regard to age,
sex or constitution. And bloody and dir
ty work they made among the poor misera
ble creatures that fell in their way."
As a reply to this refufal to consult with
Dr. C. and the other physicians who gave
bark and wine in the yellow fever, I beg
leave to give Dr. R'a own reasons for it, in
his own words—(from p. 359. of his Essay
on tbe yellow fever.) —" One thing in my
eondudt towards these gentlemen may re
quire jnftification ; and, thatis, my refufing
to consult with them. A Mahometan .and
a jew might as welTattempt to worftiip the
Supreme Being in the fame temple, and
through the medium of the fame ceremonies,
as two physicians of cppofite principles and
pra&ice, attempt to confer about the life of
the fame patient. What is done in conse
quence of such aegociations (for they are
not confutations) is the ineffedtual result of
neutralised opinions ; and wherever they
take place, would be cenfidered as the effedt
of a criminal compidt between physicians,
to assess the property of their patients, by a
fhameful prostitution of the diftates of their
consciences. Besides I early discovered that
it was impoflible for me by any reasonings,
to change the pradice of some o( my bre
thren. Humanity was therefore on the fide
of leaving them to themselves."
Dr. Currie's charge against the two wor
thy black men, Absalom Jones and Richard
Allen, is fully refuted by their great success
in curing the fever after molt of the physi
cians were confined by it. It is true, these
men like Dr. C. had not the advantage of
a regular university education ; but like the
Dr they were capable of following the in
ftruaions of Dr. Ruth. The treatment of
the disease by depleting remedies was sim
ple and intelligible to common capacities.
Hundreds cured themselves by means of
bleeding and purging, who could not have
the benefit of being attended by a phyficiao.
Let us next fee how much truth there is
in the following assertions.
" The contemplation of his own felf-cre
ated ccnfequence, the hurry of buflnefs, the
novelty and solemn afpedt of the surround
ing scenes, had certainly a very extraordjna
ry°effedt upon his imagination and impaired
liia judgment.
" I knew feteral that he terrified into
chilly fits, some into relapses, and some in- t
to convulsions, by flopping them in the street
and declaring they had the fever—You've
got it ! you've got ! was his usual falntati- :
on upon feeing any one with a pale counte- t
nance. I have been assured that he pronoun- r
ced to Dr. Glcntworth, that he would be a c
dead man it he would not fubrait to more f
bleeding, after he had reduced him almoit 1
to death's door by the viuletiee of his reme- 1
dies.* Two other physicians bwng called 1
in, thought otherwise, and the Dodtor re
covered without any more loss of the vital
fluid, notwithstanding this alarming and po- 1
fitive prognostication. I
" His pronouncing Mr. Michael Connor 1
to be infedted with the yellow fever, when
just recovered from the agu* and fcyer, oc- <
eafioned a relapse—The fame gentleman as- <
cribes the loss of his amiable daughter to 1
the draltic operation of his mercurial purges. 1
" When applied to by Mr. Chancellor to ]
visit a patient with Dr. Hodge, he advised 1
him to dismiss Dr. H. for he was a bark and
wine Doctor, and would do him more harm 1
than good.
( * " If you will not fubmitto my •voice,fays
lis, fetlleyoyr affairs, for you have a dropsy 1f
the train, and willfoon It a dead man.")
Why has not Dr. C. given one instance
of this " extraordinary effedt upon his
(Dr. Ruth's) imagination" and of tbe im
paired state of his judgment ? He undoubt
edly would have done it had it been in his
power.
As totheaffertion of '• you'vegotit! you've
got it! I remark, that after the icth of
September, Dr. Ruth believed, and events
proved him to be right, that we had no other
disease in the city but the yellow fever , it
was of the greatest confequenceto inculcate
this opinion, as it led the sick early to ap
ply for medical aid, and physicians to an
early use of the proper remedies for thispre
dominating disease. Dr. Rufli's efforts to
enforce this idea, were rendered more np
ceffary, by the following falfe and most ab
surd publication by Dr. Currie of Septem
ber 17th in the Federal Gazette of Sept.
20th, 1793, and which he bimfelf'm the (hort
space of 15 days contradicted most unequi
vocally ; and was obliged to submit his judg"
ntent in this inltanceto that of the mail whom
he had opposed so (hort a time before.
" Mr. Brown,
f It affords me particular fatisfadtion,
that I now have it ifi my power to inform
my fellow citizens, that the progress of the
infedtious fever has greatly abated, and
that with a little longer perfevrrance in
avoiding intercourse with the infedted, as
far as humanity will permit, paying at the
fame time proper attention to fumigating
and ventilating the hntifes, clothing, and
utensils from whence the sick have been re
moved, or where they have been confined/
the infection which has proved so morul
will mofl certainly be entirely eradieat d
in a few days; The best method for effei t
ing this, is contained in a late publicati >n
by the learned Dr; Ruffel.
" I have made the JlrißeJl enquiry rt
fpedting the number at present confined by
the genuine yellow fever, and am convinced
that it does not exceed 40 »r 50 in the
whole city
" There is, however, another formida
ble disease prevalent, by which, / have
reafbn to believe, there are above a thovfand
ill at this time.
" The disease T mean is the common re
mittent or fall fever. This fever, however,
is ntit infedtious.
" When the remitting fever attacks per
sons not fully recovered from the effedts of
the influenza, (which is also itill prevalent
here) it occafious a violent determination of
the blood tp the head, accompanied with
acute pain, a redness of the eyes, with a
faint tinge of yellow—-the pulse is quick
and the (kin hot. This is the disease which
is so much under the power of blood-letting
and purging ; and is as different from the
infedtious, or genuine yellow fever, as the
fun is from the moon, or light from dark
ness.
" In the fall fever, which succeeds the
influenza, the eye is sprightly, though red,
the face turgid and slushed :—whereas, in
the genuine yellow fever, the eye is dull and
inanimate, and fuffufed with a dusky brown,
the face pule, (hrunk, and.cadaverous, ai
med from the firft attack. It is in the re
mitting fever, with the violent affeftion of
the head, that the mode of treatment ad
vised by Dr. Ruth can only be proper i and
not in the infedtious or yellow fever. On
the contrary, in the yellow fever, it cannot
fail of being certain death. In the yellow
' fever, the means recommended by Dr.
Kuhn and Dr. Stevens, are the most effec
tual, and the only ones that can be relied
on, with such a variation as circumstances,
and the period of the disease may indicate.
" It is in the fall fever, circumstanced as
already described, that there is fafitty in
visiting and attending the sick, because this
fever is not contagious. Can there be the
fame fafety in visiting patients ponfined with
the genuine yellow fever, which made its
appearance in Water-street the third of
[ August last ? Let those judge who have had
opportunities of feeing its ravages ! Is that
fever, in which the bond of union is imme
diately dissolved between the solids and flu
ids, and. where the purple current ifflies
from every pore, the fame as that for which
Dr. Rufli diredts bleeding and purging ?
■ and can there be fafety in visiting perfnus
so affedted ? Have we all got the contagion
of the yellow fever in our bodies, only
* waiting for some exciting cause to put it
. into a&ion ? By no -means. The disease,
which Dr. Rulh-calls the yellow fever, and
; of which Dr. P. lays he has cured such
numbers by the new method, is only the
fall fever, operating on persons who have
been previously affeSed by the influenza.
" It is time the veil fliould be withdrawn
from your eyes, my fellcw citizens!
I Wm. Currie."
" Scft. i-]th, 179.3."
The following is his own aft of fclf-rtja- j -
tation ;
" oSober zd, I 793. ' '
" All the physicians engaged in praftice J
at prefVnt in tbe city, agree with Dr. Rush ,
that blood-letting and copious"purging are j
requisite in the cvrre of the prevailing epi-; 1
demic, in every cafe where- inflammatory j ;
fyniptams are evident, and that the dispute • 1
hitherto has been about the name of the di- ! 1
feafe, rather than the proper mode of treat- I
ment. 1 1
W. CITRRIE." It
The effefts of- this itrft publication will ' 1
long be remembered and deplored by the ci
tizens of Philadelphia, It contributed very
much to ii\creafe the mortality of the fever.
To obviate itsdeftruftive influence upon the
citizens, Dr. Rush took pains in his inter
course.with the Ock, to itnprcfs upon them
that they cpuld have no other disease tli3n
the prevailing epidernic, by which means he
produced an immediate application for medi
cal advice, 'and thereby saved many lives.
Dr. Rush early discovered further, a differ
ence between a passive and an aitlne state of
the disease : He perceived that it was pof
lible for the contagion to exist is a quiescent
state in thefyftem, and to pass out of it with
out doing any harm, provided the person
thus avoided what he called the ex
citing cauies of the disease, such as fatigue,
heat, cold, intemperance and the like. The
signs ef the prefencs of the contagion in the
body were, a red eye, a fallow (not a pale)
face, as Dr. C. asserts,—a quick and full
pulse, a want of sleep or night sweats.
When these symptoms occurred, Dr. Rush
never failed to warn his fellow-citizens of
their danger, End to advise thtm to avoid
the causes that might excite the disease into
aftion. By these pieans Jam sure he pre
vented the disease in many people. Those
who know Dr. Rush, will not believe that he
ever obtruded his advice upon any body in a
manner that was either rude or alarming ;
and those who attend to these remarks up
on Dr. Currie's. publication, will not hesi
tate in disbelieving tfjat Df. Rush terrified a
single perfpn into Wlapfes'or eopvulfions.
I cannot help addfhglierei that by pursu
ing the above humane and ratiosal praftice
of Dr. Rush, in 1793, £>r. Caldwell has
affuied me that he has good reason to believe
that he has saved many lives, and prevented
the formation of the disease in many instan
ces during the prevalence of our late epide
mic.
JOHN REDMAN COXE.
(To be continued.)
Thole who read this publication will
please to attend particularly to tbe piece*, writ
ten liy I)r. Carrn —Their application will ap-
'o morrow.
. from tie F£DERjU^<fAZ£7TE.
Af.ffri. TuaJt W Brc.l *,
Amidst that wfrrtunutc variety of opinions con
cerning the natuieand the best mode of treating
the late prevailing fever, I trust I also have a right,
jfjCr an ext«nfive and fuccefsful practice of forty
ta ve years on this continent, to offer mine. I take
th« liberty,-therefore, without fearing to incur the
imputation o vanity, to state a few f«i<3j, the rc
fult of my personal observation and experience.
From the i»th day of Jaly to the 13d of OAo
bor, I have had under my care (ifty-feven patients
(exclusive df several poor perfom, wliofe names
are not on my hooks} many, of whom were afflic
ted with the caifling diseases of the fcafon, or the
prevailing fdverj : there were also some cases of
dysenteries or fluxes. Oat of the whole number
I loft but two. One of these had the black vomit*
r ing some days before I was called in : the other
when convalescing, was, by an uncommon and
nnexpe3ed change of weather, from extreme heat
So unseasonable cold, seized with an ague; and,
as he lay in a garret, and the north fide of the
house was very open, and moreover the family re
siding in the lower part entirely out of hearing, I
. canno*. harbor a doubt, that he died fur want of
some warm covering. For, agreeably to oiy di
rections prcvioefly to the sudden change in the
air, he . laid only under a single ihect and light
counterpane.
Though I do not pretend to deny that venesec
tion, when managed with prudence and caution,
may fomttimes he necessary, yet lam free to de
clare, that in not one of these sixty seven cases,
did I ever use the lancet; and lam bold to assert,
for I have strong reasons to believe (from some
circumstances which have, fallen within ray own
knowledge) that not a few have died the victims
of too frequent and too copious blood-letting.—
It may be, likewise, not improper to remark, that
I adnainifteied Mercury or Calomel very fpaVing
i ly, having noticed many tad great inconveniences
| from too liberal an use of it, such at violent grip
ing, tenefmus, faliV-ition, and other disagreeable
and painful concomitants; and I found the milder
1 cathartics to answer every g«od purpose, without
exhausting the strength and spirits of the fubjeA.
As to a putrid or real malignant fiver, accortf
r ing to the idea I have of one (and I run but little
rifquc of conrradi&ion when I fay. that
I have seen, if not more, at lea ft as much of
1 it as any other pra&itioner On the continent) 1 dlf
1 covered no such thing in the early stages of the
. disorder. That the cases were bilious at firft, and
r afterwards, from mifmanagrment and a multipli
city of other causes, put on the putrid type. I in
tend (hortly, "it it please Providence to spare my
• health and preserve my life, to substantiate by
[ proofs which cannot fa 1, I think, of fatisfying and
convincing every unenot blinded by .ignorance, or
' euflaved by system and bigotry : at the fame time,
I shall take occasion alf« of recommending such
' means of prevention an'd cure, as will in my opin
-1 ion, if adopted, save in future, under the bleff
-1 ing of God, the lives of many of my fellow-crea
. tures
In the m-an while fljould any refpe&able gtntle
-1 man of the fa ulty think it worth their while to
' enquire my particular mode of treatment, pursued
f through the different stages of the diferder, it will
| upon application, with pleasure, be communicated
. to them, by HENRY STEVENSON.
■ * - -T- - ■■.tj-L-LV.—., —-
. I The Medical Lcftures
, In the University of Pennsylvania, are- poft^i
t jponed until the last Monday in November
> ft* 1 -
■ \ Oaober 14. «JW4W- >
| Davis's Ldw Book Store, "7
No. 319, Hivb'Street.
George DAVIS,
, r> F.ING busied for some time past in prepara
| IJ tions for removing into his present house, has
( been under thcneceffity of poflponinguitril this day
informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar goiicrally thro'
; the United Statea, that his spring importation ef
: law books is now arranged and-ready formate, 011
terms that he trails will entjtiehim to tholike pre
j freence he has expirienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues, the 'mod varied colkc
tion ever imported into this country, are printed
and Will be delivered on apylieatieji.
June 47, jaw
PARIS, September 12.
The Executive Directory to the Citizens of
Paris.
Citizens,
" Royalty has just threatened the confti
lution by a new attack. After having for
a whole year fbaken by their dark manoeuv
res all the foundations of the Republic, they
thought that they were fufficiently powerful
to confiiminate ita deilruftion. They tho't
themselves fufficiently protested to venture
to aim its firft attack against the supreme
depufitories of the Executive Direftory.—
Arms were daily diftributtd to the conspir
ators; and all Paris knows that one of the
distributors was arreHed with a great num
ber of bonds, upon which he had already
delivered a great number of firelocks. Cards
stamped Legislative Body, end markeif with
an R, were circulated in order to serve as
rallying signs to the conspirators, charged
with the office of maffacreing the Direftory
and the deputies faithful to the cause of the
people.
" A great number of emigrants, cut
throats of Lyons, and brigands of La Ven
dee, attrafted hither by the intrigues of
royalifm, and the tender interest publickly
lavished upon them without fear, attacked
the posts which furrouadcd the executive
direftory; but the vigilance of the govern
ment, and the chiefs of the armed force,
fruftrated their criminal efforts.
" The executive direftory is about to lay
before the nation the authentic documents
which it has collefted concerning the man
oeuvres of the Royalists. You will shudder
with horror, citizens, at the plots entered
into against the fafety of every one of yon,
against your property, against your deafeft
rights, against your molt sacred polfeffious
and you may calculate the extent of the cal
amities from which in future you can alone
he preserved by the maintenance of the con
ftitutian.
So many triumphs had already crowned
the eftabliihment of this constitution. Your
generals and your intrepid defenders had
surrounded it with their immortal trophies.
At the fame of their viftories, agriculture
and commerce relumed their activity, pub
lic credit by degrees recovered, confidence
and security began to spring up in every
heart, and this is the moment which has
been pitched upon to re-kindle your animo
sities, "to propagate superstition, to re-or
ganize the power of fanaticifm,to sow (Joubt
and alarms in every bread by opening' new
avenue* for the return of emigrants, to (hake
th« guarantee of public contrasts: to give
the figrtal of civil war, and to retard by the
hopes with which foreign nations were in
spired, the so much wished conclusion of
peace with <3ur external foes, hoaortrable &
solid, worthy of the triumphs of the French
people and of their generosity. 'No, you
will not lose the fruits of your long facrifi
ees, you will rife indignantly against those
base emigrants, the authors of our calami
ties, of all our agitations, of all our Offer
ings. You will arm yourselves to flop their
designs, and to defend against their attacks
your perfons,your property and your rights.
But beware of agitations. Do not disgrace
the mod glorious of causes by the excesses
of an anarchyjuftly abhorred. Refpeft pro
perty. Let not an ill direfted patriotic im
pulse throw you into a fatal confufion. O
bey no voice but that of the avowed chiefs
appointed by the government. Rely upon
the vigilance of your magistrates and upon
the exertions of your legislators, who have
remained faithful to the cause of the people.
Patriotism will resume all its energy, the
constitution all its glory, and every citizen
will enjoy, in their fulleft extent, liberty,
happiness, and tranquility.
Mtjftgi tf tie Direftory It the Mouwib, Hated 19 Fruc
t; :io r, Sept. 5.
' " Citizens Representatives,
" The 18th Fru&idor (Sept. 4) it destined to be
' the frlvation both of the republic and of yonr
felvcs. The people expe& this. You witnessed
yesterday their tranquility and their joy. This day
is the 9th Fru-ftidor (Sept. j) and the people alk
1 of you where the republic is, and what you have
done for ita consolidation f The eye of the coun
try, citizens representative', looks towards you.
The moment is decisive; if you allow it to pa(«
by, if you hesitate on the measures that are t»-r>e
taken, if you put off your decision for a moment,
all will be loft, both you and the republic. The
conspirators have been on the watch. Your si
lencehas given them courage and audacity; they
are intriguingafrefh, and are misleading public o
pinion by infamous lihels. The journaliftsofßlan
kenbourg and London continueto diJTemmate their
■ polfort. The conspirators do nof attempt to con
-1 ceaithefaft, that their plot extends to the legisla
tive body itTclf. They already speak of punilhing
' the republicans for the sommencement of the tri
umph they th ; nk they have obtained.
ts it poflible to hesitate dill, as to the measure of
purging the foil of the very few knoWn and avow
ed chiefs of these royal conspirators, v\ ho wait for
' the convenient opportunity to destroy the republic,
and to devour you yeurfclves? You are at the
brink of tbe volcano ! It is about to fn allow you
• up ; you may close it ; and can you hefit te ? To
' morrow it will be too late. The lead hesitation is
the death of the repnblie. You will be told of
prirciplcs, formalities will be resorted to, excuses
will be invented ; delays will be-called for, time
will be granted, and the constitution will be assas
sinated, under pretext of keeping within its limits
j This cummiferation, implored in favor of certain
men, to What will it lead you ? To fee »hose very
J men take out of your hands the thread of their cri
minal conspiracies, and .colleA in your bosom the
horrible firebrands of civil war, to set fire to the
country. What a misconceived pity, what a fatal
fentimcnt, what limited views would, in that cafe,
\ draw the attention of the councils toward* a few
r m«|i, between wliofe fate and that of the republic
j they wowld hesitate.
j The executive directory has applied itfelf to
■ point out to you the means of saving France, but
it has to expeA that you will avail yourselves of
them. The directory has felt a perfurfion that
you are fmcerely attached/to liberty, and the re
public, and that the confcqucnces of this firft li
• berty ought not to terrrify you. ft lays them be
s fore you ; and is obliged to tell you that you are
' placed in an unprecedented predicameat, and&at
ordinary rules cannot apply to an extraordinary
f cafe, unkf«youar:j deSron'tpfurreitfler yourselves
1 to your enemies, Jf the friends of kings find
friends among you ; if fl.tvas can meet with pro
testors in you ( if you wait in inOant, the fafety
of France must be despaired of; the constitution
I will cease to be in force ; and the patriots may be
told, that the hour of royalty is proclaimed'liro'-
out the r publi^,
Put If, li th« executive dire %ory i%fi,r.y , srf'ua.
ded, this terrible idaa affliSs ind ftrili' i si. ,11, , p .
predate the vjlui of the moment and'emtii-ace it ;
be ttvMeliverers of your country, and lay the eter
nal foundation of itj happinefa and glory.
(Mg»«d)
L. M. Rki?kit.upr* ( Prcfidcnt.
liAflARBt, Secretery.'*
NEW-YORK, November 7.
It seems that citizen Ramel, commandant
of the guard of the French legislative body,
addrefll-d a letter ta the councils of elders
and 500, afluring thtm of their fafety, and
of the attachment of the grenadiers to the
duties incumbent on them : But, to ! when
general Moulin advanced With his twp can
non against the hall, these fame faithful de
fenders of the legiflatur'e, these patriot gre
nadiers, not only deserted theff colours, but
joined the adailants, delivered up'their own
commander Ramel, aided in arresting the
devoted members, and exhibited' one addi
tional proof, that no reliance can be placed
upon hireling mereenaries in the trying hour
of danger and dismay. The consequence
was the seizure of the brave Pichegru, and
such of his virtuous colleagues, as, by their
firmnefs in refifti.ng the mafqued tyrants, had
become obnoxious to their resentment, and
objefts deflined to be immolated at the
shrine of personal and party animosity !
What freedom can exist in a country
where the legislature is daily fubjeft to the
parricidal violence of a sanguinary fadtion ?
Opinion should be free as air—No man
should be liable to be fevzed, imprisoned and
hanijljcd, for exprefling his sentiments
where the poflibility of this exists, all liber
ty is utterly loft What would be said,
if the democratic fadtipn in Congress had
wheedled a body of the Philadelphia militia
into their meafures,/eized the advocates for
the British treaty, imprifoncd and banijhed
them—Said ! why, the Jacobins would not
certainly have approbated it—but the friends
of rational liberty—the cool—reflecting
part of the public—the men to be depended
on, would have stood aghast !—Their firft
sensations would have been those of surprise
and astonishment—but the monsters would
have been taught that among people ac
quainted with their rights, and the necessity
of preserving aconftitution they had labour
ed to ere£t and eftablilh, very different
measures were neceflary to bring offenders,
or presumed offenders to justice.
The present state of affairs in France af
fords a pretty good criterion for determin
• ing the state of public opinioa in the Unit
ed States—All those who declare in favor
of the vile usurpers of ? power arbitrary and
unwarranted, would not hesitate at approv
ing the fame rascally measures among us—
But those who think justly, cannot fail to
deprecatethe horrors of the anarchical and
despotic violence exercised against the mode
rate, peaceably-disposed, patriotic members
of the directory and legislative councils.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, November 8.
The papers which we shall continue to
give, and on which the disclosure of the
plans of the royalists were said to be founded
appear to be exceedingly obfeure. At any
rate, they da fiot appear, to us, to be fuf
ficiently explanatory ps their views, to have
warranted a condemnation of tjie many per
sons arretted on them, without fomt form at
least of a regular trial. To those, howe
ver, who look back to the manner in which
every former unfuccefsfnl party has been o
verthrownin Paris, the mode in which the
last have been disposed of, will not excite
any daggering surprize.
Madame Orleans has obtained permission
to pass into Spain.
That another, and another regeneration is
not to be confined to the limits of Paris,
may be learned from the following article in
one of the immaculate, and unprofcribed
French papers:
" 1200 Distinguished Emigrants will be
arretted and tried in 24 hours. The repre
sentatives and other accused persons who
have.fled, will be tried for contumacy.
The eledtions influenced by Louis 18, are
declared puH; and the commander in chief
of the army of Italy, is ordered to avenge
the eaufe of the patriots who were murdered
in the South. The division of Maffena has
for that purpose marched to Lyons, and
Joubert's division to Marseilles. All the
conftitutcd authorities and administrations
of the republic will be regenerated and puri
fied—patrotifm will ever)' were be re-kind
led—the republicans alone will be armed:
all the republican inscriptions will cpntairt
these words, which have been wickedly ef
faced " The Republic or Death!"
" tAISSE."
The London Gazette of September 16,
contains the account or tbe capturing of a
considerable number of French and Spanish
ships of war. Sir John B. Warren's Squa
dton had taken and destroyed in the course
of a few days fix armed veflels and a frigate
of 36 guns and 23 fail ofother vessels.
PARIS, September 5.
Declaration of Duverne DepreflTe, or 1311-
nant, annexed to the secret register of the
Directory, 11 Ventofe, sth year.
FIRST DECLARATION.
" Citizens,
<» I do not diflemble that, in beginning
this Written detail, I am about to put into
your hands that of my own condemnation.
But although I am far from being mfeufi
fible to my own personal isitereft, I am so
fullyperfuaded that it I*9 n far different motive
which has determined you to take a step very
difficult to be misinterpreted, which I shall
not hesitate to undertake, although I had
not to encourage me the engagement which
you have contra&ed.
" Many attempts have been made fine*
the revolution to restore the throne ; all of
them have failed, but mod of them have
cost the lives of a great number of men of
1 >both parties. Nothing lias difcotvraged the
rfiyaliits, and hitherto there have been so
many reasons tojuftify their hopes, that we
ought not to be surprised if by the fide of
one conspiracy extinguished, another should
arise the more dangerous, because to its own
refonrcjs it adds the experience of the er
rors which have occ.fioned the ruin of others.
I fay dangerous, not becauf# that I think
any coqfpirpcy would overthrow the estab
lished government, but because I believe that
fotne one may be found combining fufficient
means to encourage even an open attack,
aVrd then the blood of Frenchmen would
flow in torrents (hed by the hands of French
men. It is to prevent, as far as lies in my ;
power, the return o/ these scenes of desola
tion, that I have formed the design ofeom- i
municatwg all the threads ofthe conspiracy ]
at the head of which I am placed, to lead ]
you into the track of those which may fuc- <
ceed ; in fine, to diflipate id such a manner <
all the resources of the royalists that they !;
may be compelled even to abandon their j t
hopes. I betray the cause of royalty j I t
know it, but 1 am convinced I serve the 1
cause of those Frenchmen who are attached j i
to that cause by destroying the foundation r
of their chimerical hopes : and, if I do not f
impose upon myfelf, this conduft will not , '
deprive me of any just title to the esteem of r
those who (hall decide without paflion. \ c
" I will not fatigue your attention by a | e
longer preamble. I have {aid thus much , t
only to juilify to myfelf an adtion which I | t
think courageous, which perhaps may be si
generally regarded as an aft of treachery. I r
am about to enter upon the fubjedt, and I
will speak as if I had been the only agent of a
the king at Paris. It-is two years since I p
undertook the management of his intereils. ii
From that period I was aware that the roy
alists could have no real constancy, but when ei
united round a comrtion centre they aft by 1
preconcerted movements. From that period b
I exerted every effort to lead to that centre p
of unity all'the chiefs of La Vendee and of t;
Brittany ; all the' agents foattered through a
the different departments that I could dif- p
cover, who pretended to aft for the fame
objedt, and who all pursued it by contra- c<
didtory means. I went into Britanny, into
La Vendee. I went to Switzerland, where
an English minister resides, specially charged
to second the royalists. I went to the army i
of the prince of Conde, and saw the king.
At length I made a journey tft England,
where I explained myfelf with the count d(
D'Artois and the English ministers. No- oi
thing less would do, in Order to prevail on dt
every individual to renounce the plans which
he himfelf diredted, the private scheme which ta
he had adopted, to put an end to the ani- nt
rnofities and the divifioni which reigned in ev
the party; and in this last refpedt I never a
could have produced a durable effedt in La kr
Vendee and Brittany. I was also far from oh
eonfidering their fubmifiion as an unfortunate mi
event. It served eur cause because it en a- tai
bled us to develope entirely a plan more wife lai
than those which had preceded) on this very
account more wife, because it embraced at on
once the whole of France, and because it
excluded every partial movement, but that da
which should repder us matters of Paris by pr
overthrowing the government. fla
" Such is the plan which had been ap- of
proved by the pretender, who alone was ac- de
quainted with all its details. The English la\
mmiftry, the French princes, likewise adopt- th
ed so much of the plan as was communicated bu
to them. The objeft was, to make the cri
political and military movements go hand in da
hand. of
" to be dividedinto two agen- ha
cies. alv
" The one, which comprehends the pro- cai
vinces of Franche Compte, the Lyonnoife, eyi
Fores, Auvergne, and the whole of the pr<
South is to be entrusted to M. Precy.— fir:
The other, which extends over all the reft ter
of France, is to be directed by the agents at jor
Paris. Thcfe two agencies shall reciprocal- the
ly inform each other of their situation by a wit
vegular and adtive eorrefpondence. No hyi
movement is to be attempted by the one, if nol
the other is not previously apprised of it ing
and if it it not prepared to second its ope- fufc
ration. &c
" The twoagenciesfhallhave a dire ft com- 1
munication with the King, and with the a- to
gents of the British government. This last tril
having only two objedts, the firft, the de- and
mand of afTiftatice, and secondly, in its ap- pea
plication, the agents are to render them
felvet independent of the inftrudtions which to
might be given by the English. The se
cond objeft of the English eorrefpondence end
lhall be to give them every intelligence tend- pov
ing to serve the cause ; but never to facih- thr
tate to them the means of seizing any of our eve
maritime* places, and in general nothing Th
that could be uftful only to themselves ; the 1
king and the council having never ceased to tior
think that the fervicts of the English are exc
perfidious ferricet, tending to no other ob- it 1
jeftbut the total ruin of France. par
'/ The municipal agentt shall sub-divide cul|
the diftridts entrusted to their direftion into the
as many military commanderies as they shall a v<
Judge proper. They shall fubrait their la
bours to the king, and propose to him the
j>9rfons who are judged qualified to fill with ton
intelligence and fidelity the fuuations of lons
commanders in chief of the different circles. lev«
The commanders are to receive their power tior
from th« king ; but they shall not corref- 1
pond diredtly only with the superior agents Loi
of the party. _
« The principal agents, and especially add
at Paris, will spare no pains to ieduce j whi
to the party of the king, all the members pon
of the constituted authorities. They can por;
» proinife to every individual all the personal C
advantages which his importance may en- I fury
title >iim to expedt, without the exception the
of any one, even the members of the Cob- ry y
vention, who voted for the death of Lours Hoi
XVI. But they will not incur any engage- S
raent which can give occasion to believe that Orn
the intention of the king is to re-establish coui
the monarchy upon new bases. The king of p
will do every tiling to reform the abiifes 'I
tyhjch had crept into the ancient regime, was
'■' v .
he but nothing could induce him to change the.
0 constitution. In cafe of a powerful party
W f l"-" Councils proposing to. recognize the
oj king upon conditions, the agents'at Paris :
were; to engage that party to depute Jo his
ivn Majesty a person properly authorized, with
er- whom the king might discuss in person the
rs. true interests of France. 1
»k « The objeft proposed is the overthrow -
ib- of the existing government. It isin thecon- '
iat ftitution itfelf that the means were to be J
nt found of overturning it without a great '
:k, shock. The frequency of elections prevent '
»d the opportunity of introducing a majority 1
n- of royalists into the offices of government
ny and the adminiflrations.
a- " Hitherto the royalists have derived no f
tt- advantage from their number ; theiV pufil- f
cy lanimity prevents them from attending the v
ad primary assemblies, where, if they have giv- t
c- en any votes, it hat been without previous
er j concert, and their votes have been thrown
-J j away so far as concerned the objedta at-which I
:ir | they individually aimed. In order to ob- P
1 | tain a majority of Votes in the primary afTem- n
tie _ blies, it is necessary to arrange three points : b
?d ! I ft, To force the royalists to attend. 2d,
>n To compel them to unite their fuffrages in E
at favour of the individuals pointed out. 3d, w
3t jTo induce that class of men, who have no g
as j preference for any government, love that or- b
I der which protedts their persons and prop
a I erties, to vote in favour of the royalist par- dt
h 1 ty. In order to attain this triple objeft, 4
I ! two associations shall be formed, the one
»e formed of tried royalists, the other of timid
T royalists, and men felfifh or indifferent. ft
I "It is unnecessary for me to enter into
if any details in this refpeft, firice you are in
I poffefiion of the regulations to be adopted 'h
>. in thcfe iuftitutions. as
" These two associations shall be eftablilh- ' in
n ed throughout the whole of the republic
y The agents are not to allow themselves to a,
d j be deceived by the idea that there are any
e parties or dispositions which render this es
s tablifhment fuperfluous. Every where there f u
h are weak and timid mortals to whom the °J
- philanthropic institution will be suitable. A
e [The Redadteur, ih which this article is ft'
- continued, ha« not come to hand.] Jit
J (To be continued.) T,
f on
1 PARIS, September 14. "
.• COUNCIL OF FIFE HUNDRFD. g'<
t Sitting of 12th Sept. of,
, Tallot rose to speak on a motion of or
t der. He dated, that by the law of
- one quarter of their pay was allowed to re- I
1 duced officers.
1 "I do not know (said he) by what fa- to
1 tality it is that those brave men, to the tht
number of 20,000, have not yet received ea\
1 even this miserable pittance. I dtfire that of
• a message may be lent to the diredtory, to gei
1 know the reason of this delay, and what lea
obstacles there are in the way of the pay- Ha
: tpent, in order that the legislative' bqdy may
take the necessary steps for carrying the
law into execution."
The motion was agreed to, and the speech
ordered to be printed.
Quirot alfp spoke upon the order of the T
day. " The constitution (said he) has
provided for the independence of the legi
slative. body, of the executive power, and '' e
of the judicial power. But this indepen- I, s
dence does not exclude responsibility. The
law of the 3d Brumaire has provided for
. the responsibility of the two firft powers,
but not for the Tribunal de Cassation. The
criminal tribunals are also inverted with a 'j 01
dangerous inviolability, and this is the cause |! le
of all the affaflinations which the royalists ,
have been guilty of in France, which hav« tl,e
always been committed with impunity, be- rftl
cause the justices of the peace shut their p
eyes, and only punished when they thought
proper. Have we not seen partial magi- t
ftxates fuffer, with impunity, libels which Prel
tended to excite the assassination of the ma- f° ot
jority of the direftory, under the name of ha j"
the triumvirate, while they punished people ,] lor
with severity' for singing the Marfeillois j u ta
hymn, or a song against clocks ?—Have we not
not fcen the tribunal de cassation contend- F -. B
ing against the legislative body, upon the
fubjedt of the royal commissioner Brothier, a - pel
&C. dy k
" I move that a committee be appointed the 1
to determine upon the mifcondudt of the
tribunal de cassation, the criminal tribunals,
and the diredtors of juries aHd justices of
peace." whe
The motion was agreed to, apd ordered 'hey
to be printed. j" 1 ' 11
Jean de Bry, in a speech of great length, (h ° 11
endeavoured to exculpate the executive muc
power from the reproaches which had been thin;
thrown upon them on account of the recent rira
events at Venice, by Paftoret, on the sth men
Thermidor.
He cited several articles of the conftitu- er ; n
tion, and proved that the diredtory had not Mod
exceeded their powers. He Rated also, that a r 'g
it had been insinuated that general Buona
parte had framed his manifefto so as to ex- !^'j s
culpate his condudt. We caunot follow g OTe
the orator through his speech, but it made Tl
a very great impreffioa upon the council. was
Sitting of 13th Septemlrer.
The council received several congratula
tory addresses on the 4th Sept. from Cha- gnu j<
lons far Marne, Clermont, Ferrand, and carri;
several other communes. Insertion aHd men
tion to be made in the prscefs verbal.
The adminiflration of the Maine and w °] n<
Loire spoke the fame fentiraents. w h o l
The order of the day was adopted on this on tl
address, on that article of the constitution and i
which forbids the administrations to corres
pond with the legislative body in their cor
porate capacity.
Citizen Caignard, employed in the trea- bring
fury, presented 50 livres for the expences of militi
the war, and proraifed to give as moch eve
ry year until the conclusion of a peace.— ca .
Honourable mention. t f, L [
Several citizens of the department as L' York
Orne addressed several remonstrances to the l
council, on the table for the depreciation
of paper money made for this department. Ilend
The order of the day was called for, which f orm
was uppofed by Labroifte, oa the ground Turk:
that feme errors have crept into this
table—Referred to the- dfre£tory.
The discussion on Vitler's report 011 Fi
nance was resumed,
LONDON, September 11.
A meflenger arrived yesterday at the Por
tuguese Ambaftador's with advices from
Portugal, and also dispatches for Govern
ment from the Hon. Robert Walpole, his
Majesty's Minister at that Court, which
were said to contain the Treaty between
France and that Country; they were deem
ed of such importance as to be immediately
sent ofi to LorJ Greenville, at Dropmore.
. Some persons complain that the constitu
tion has been little attended to by thf differ
ent parties at Paris. Mr. Pitt, however,
will furcly be the lad man to find fault with
these parties for any violation of the conHi
tution.
The Cap of Liberty was not arretted from
Britannia when a new Copper coinage was
projected: (he voluntarily resigned it— not
wishing to retain thefladow, after having
been deprived of the Subflancc.
Mr. Windham dill holds out that the
Expedition against the Peak of Teneriffe i
was negatively fuceefsful, « for," fays the |
great Statesman, " was it not highly proba
ble that, considering the fmallnefs of their
force, the Englifli might have been totally
dejlroyed, whereas we find that no less than
4CO have efcapedV'
September J4.
There is no reason given by the Triumvirate
for the tranfportatien of Bartholcmy and Car
not. They are not accused of being conterned in ,
what is called the conspiracy of Pichtgru, nad '
though the Royalijl Journals confideted them !
as being d-firous of peace, and on thct account
in opposition to she Triumvirate, yit furcly
that tie fire, of itfelf, could never be advanced as
aferiitlj charge again si them.
The only army of the Republic, luhofefeiiti
"tents can in any manner ie doubted upon the
fuhjeS of the late events at Paris, is the army
oj the Rhine aud Moselle. Some tff the
Members if thi Council of Five Hundred com
plained that the army was negleSed, because it
ftil preferred its attachment to Pichegru; and
Thilaudeau, two days before the late convulsi
on, in a fpetch upon the Finances, said, that
" calm immoveable amidfl the pajjions that a
gitated the njl of the Repuhlit, the brave army
of the Rhine had not received auy pay for three
months.
Last evening arrived in town on his way
to the feat of government, the President of
the United States, escorted by major Ward'* ]
:avalry. He was welcomed by the discharge ,
of cannon and ringing of bells. Several
gentleman paid their refpeft« to him He ,
eave» town to day escorted by Captain (
Haines troop. (
XJ)e <lsa3ette* ~ '
■ ■I c
PHILADELPHIA, J
THURSDAY EVENING, JtOVZMBf.It 9. '
Ray Greene, Esq. is ele6led Senator of
he United States for the state of Rhode- ■
[(land, in the place of William Bradford,
Esq. resigned.
THE CITY CAVALRY
vill parade on Friday morning next, the
[Oth instant, precisely at nine o'clock, at
he Hotel in Tenth*, between Arch and
llace-flreets, for the purpose of escorting 1
he President of the United States on his 1
eturn to the feat of government.
■or the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES. S
MR. TINNO, **
THER.E is a talk of a military parade when the j
'rcfider; arrives. Some on horse and fonie on r
®ot —while the President rider in a chariot, p"r
aps a coach, and as the Aurera fays, with wheels.
1 will not at this moment enquire by what au
lority the governor undertook to iuilru<st the ad- b
itant general about this buflnefi—He furcly j
ot consult the democratic society about it, for B.
. B. their eracle, is dreadfully and mortally cha
rined. He ha; puhlilhed a wonderful smart piece S
i his Aurora on the occasion, in which he raves IT
baut slavery, and liveries, and frolics, and nobo
y knows what. He fays the whole uniform of w
ie militia of th> state ought to be ehanged; for if -1
»ey wear it they are all slaves, because thePrcfi 1
ent's folks all wear blue coats with red colfari.
he people who serve the President mull be flares th
:caufe they are yankeys—they are all free men dt
■hen they are in Maflachafetts, where I believe f Q
icy were almost all born and married ; but if tke j
military companies of Philadelphia, in uniform,
lould turn out on this occasion, they are slaves-, and f"
ie Prifident's people all become slaves too. So T
luch for wearing blue and red : There is another B
ling that seems to cause gseat uneajnefsto the Au- (•
>ra writer. The militia is compsfed fays he, of
en as free as the Governur ; this you know, and
rery b«dy knows. But you know that we always
ppofed the Governor was general and command- E
in chief over <he militia. "Thi* is the Humbling /];
ock with the Aurora, how one free man can have r ,
right to command another free man. There is ■*
ie ofthe faction who fays, he hopes hU hand will
ither, if he Oiould obey the governor's orders.— f l -*
his is a knotty point, I (hall leave it with the ult
iVernor to fettle.
There is another cireumftance, which it seems
as not forcfccn by the governor—U it (bould
in it will be miry, if not it will be dusty, and as
is matter cannot be fettled beforehand, in cither
fe, the Aurora fays the militia will be in a " de
aded, prostituted situation, for the Prefide'nt's
rriagt, it i3ys, will be sometimes before and.
met.nifs behind. The editor, who'l suppose to
the Oht Soldier, is a very wife man, bmt it is
how he should know so much.
I greatly fufpeJt he means to overthrow the 111
bole militia fyfiem, for he intimates that waiting
the President was the object of that fyfte-n,
d what becomes of this bulwark of our bherttrs,
juld that be the cafe ? I wish we knew the in;
II extent of the designs of some people who pa
llow very loud about slavery finae they left off thi
iijg to levee. It appears 3« if they meant to
ing in a (landing army. If it is slavery in the
ilitia to obey orders, you may depend we .fliall
in be without one.
The Aurora patnotifm is too partial—l hate lo- ■
I patriotism—No fslicitude was cxprefTed about j j
militia of Maffachufctts, Cpnne&icut, New- e
irk. or New-Jerfey—thu' they voluntarily plun-
d themselves into this business poor creatures, ®* a '
:y did not fee thro' the medium of the Aurora. ei
t there is something more (hocking to appre
nd ; if the militia (bould turn out, it will trant
m them into Janiflaries.l Now Janiffarics are
irkiflj mercenaries and wsar turliMis. „
; . I
1S PROM A LONDON PAPER.
i.o*X> 'MouNruafx<is,
Fi- Tejlerday morning at his lodgings in Tori
flreet, St. James's-fquare, Lord Vifountmount
j tnorres put an end h his cxijlance by Jhootin*
; himftlf thro the head. By the direction of the ,
or- I,diet it ffff eared that he had put the pijlol into (
)m "*oOtb ;he bad another in his pocked loaded, i
and b evcr y account it is obvious that he had '
I n,ail: preparations for this violent ad, had paid 1
'' the few bills that he owed, and had conversed , ,
Cn "> " ™<>y gave his acquaintance reason to !
m- believe that he had for several days deliberate! : I
'ly Upon the filicide he accomplMed.
| When a man in egfy circumflances, whe>fe *
U" life cannot have affeStedhii conscience, commits
f- this dreadful alt, it is not easy to account for ?
;r ' t,J e motives. The lenity of a tinner's Inquefl
th to rescue his family from cruel and extravagent *
P e '>"hies, >nay call it lunacy, but the inquisitive Q
mind is eager in the fcarch tf rational argument A
1111 /111 those who were acquainted withlord Mount- R
as mnrres knew him to be a man barmlefs, -thoirjh H
0t /"*>?»-tig in his mannert ; who in the incessant
pursuit of dijlinftion facrificed his cotnfort with- j
out obtaining his objeß. To be <noticed by per- n
'f ons •fVtgh rank was his supreme felicity, and 8-
' obtruding himfelf on the society of perfms who T
e did not tajle the monotony of his canverfation, A
a- and who rejeSed his advances, fixed ultimately T
■ lr a chagrin on his temper which he deeply felt.
•y He was long supported by felf opinion. He laid "
111 claim to the merits of eloquence andpatrio- \ j
tifm — he was, in his own eflcem, afins wri- H
( ier i as well as "Ji™ gentleman ; he wrote a A
U Comedy which was never aSed, and published
r " a book, the hi/lory if the Parliament of Ireland,
; which was never read ; and during the lajl ?
| r,K Months of his life, he amused his vanity by -j
---; announcing that he had undertaken 'the difficult V,
"f transiting Herodotus. Fond of nolo
y riety he announced this design to every man he c <
" met, and a few pages of translation, with a 1 '
very large body of common place notes were hit ~
'• late claims to the credit of literature. This per-
■' petualhunting after fame, was made fill fur- fyj
y ther ridiculous by bis pursuit of a splendid mar■ T1
r '"S e - ' s f«'dhave been refufed by more u
women of fortune than any Nobleman in Eng- ~
'' land. Whether this be true or not, it contribu
. ted to his mental disquiet ; for those Journals,
™hofc Editors male the frailties offajhionable
" life the- fvbje 9of their ridicule, and perhaps, of A
their profit, had the atrocity to draw this vain }j !
1 but in ojfcnftve man into daily odium. 7 o the
' disgrace of the readers of these Journals ! they A
countenanced the scandal. Even in a paper of Bo
yefierday, the day of his death, he was exposed
in an illiberal lampoon and an allusion made to
f a Lady with whom, perhaps, he never exchan
ged a Jy liable.—These daily libels wounded ,
• him to the quick, and perhaps contributed to his 2f
: fatal cataflrophe.
1 For feme time pajl he has betrayed symptom Pri
' °f uneasiness, He wrote a letter to Dr. Willis Ch
' on Turf day desiring tofee him on Friday mor- 1
mng, as he felt himfelf indisposed, The Doßor £ e '
came to his lodgings but a fsw minutis after [
he had perpetrated theaß. He had, by a course, I Ru;
of prudence amounting to parftmony, created in Clo
fact a very easy fortune, for from a very small to '
encumbered eflati he is said to leave a clear A°f
5000 1, a year, We underjland that he has a Car
p half brother who will succeed to the aflate, but An
of this faß -we have no certain knowledge. I 1
*#* Country Subfcribcr, to-morrow.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. Ati
PORT OF P HILADELPHA. {£
ARRIVED DA y s M »<
Polacrc.St. Dominic, Mitchell, Cadix 48 q
Tryphena, Griffin, Bourdeaux 64
Newton, Ritey, S. Croix 20
Si hj'. Boflon, Clark, Cape-Francois 20
Sloop Sally, White, Norfolk 6
CLEARED (J
BrigG(orge,Hall, Cape-Francois, ftvei
Schr. Teatman, Crane, C. N. Mole n,ac '
John, Mayhew, Boflon,
Capt. Mitchell left Cadiz 21 ft Sept. the a b!e
blockade of which was continued 'by the
British lleet. nc
Ship Neptune and bark Mars weie at
St. Übes the beginning of Sept. the for- (
mer to fail in 30, the latter in 25 days. Of
A large (hip and schooner inward bound,
were seen off the capes Sunday P. M.
They were not in yesterday morning. j j
The Tryphena left at Bourdeauz, Aug. 27.
theJhip Louisa, BAI, of this port, to fail in 14
days for Lijbon ; Farmer, M'Collom, do. do.
for this port, 20th Sept. ; brig Eli%a, Hope,
do. do. 6 th. A few days before the Tryphena c '
failed, the brig Washington, , of New- ,n<l '
Tork, arrived, captured on her pajfage from
Belfafl home, Sept. 9. spoke the brig Lydia, ten S
Gordon, out 29 days from Salem to Bilboa, I
all well. Oi
Thi Phit nix, Grice, for, Amjlerdam ; "
Eagle, Shields, for Hifpaniola ; Jefferfon,
Morris, for St. Croix andfeveral other mer,
fels, went to s ea on Monday lafi. open
The flip Commerce, of Baltimore, was to that f
fail from St. Thom as 'for that port the 2C th d 'f° rc
ult. lhortl
■ fover;
Landing this day,
From on board th« schooner Two Friends, Dan- John
iel Crawley, Matter, Neill
1° j Jamaica RUM, •
FOR SALE BY Jacol
George Latimer f Son. I Owen
uovemher o. Keppe
y " dftyy
Insurance Company of North y O /, r .
America. £ '"g*
The Stockholders are informed, that a meet-
in<r is to be held, by adjournment, at the Com
pany's Office, in Front Street, on Monday next A 1
the 13th inft. at la o'clock.
Eben. Hazard, Sec'ry.
Nov. 9. djt. any o(
All Persons who are indebted to b r (
the estate of Wiiiiam Heysham, fen. of Phila
delphia, dcceafed, are recjuefted to make fpcedy
.payment j and those who have any demands a
gainfi said estate, will plcnfc to present them, pro- 1
perly attcfted, to thefuhferiberi.
William Heyfham, 1 J
Robert Hey/ham. > Executors. 2 K
Francis Bowes Sayre, J 2 q
•tovtmlcr 6. aaw4w I q
—c.::' —Z-.: ;—,... wwwwb
Int. PHII GSOPHER AND THE COX
ori COMB.
u _ vt Written by the lite Mr. Cawt horn.
"the a n C " XC T h ° nee H,n( W» W'towr f-.uirf,
■„/» ,'A' T'r >' re » try\l to m ,ke it f om „; .
, ? " " ,!n P' llls "*kward fift he flings, '
frf, Ant! rudely prefTes on -he elaflic ftringj ■
iad Awaken d rd f),ricks an 1 scoWs, an,l r »v<..'
T/W I ' (, i as 'he cMTmance of wind* and wave,
fed . £"<' ' , " a, r " far than all tj,> extatic race, '
lo I orgies ftunn'd the wilds of
j Hi race.
Friend, (juo:h the sage, that fine machine con
tuns
4ft number* and diviner drains.
,its StraWs,fuck a* orice could build theTheban watl
r or Anc ltoj> the mountain tprrent in its fall ;
"J 1 An yet r'° c ,ke thtm ' roufc them ' " nd infpirr;
en! ? Pne fll, S er ' and 1 t- uclj of li,e.
A tfrelmg Uul, whole all cxprelTive powers,
ve C O Py nature as she (inks or soars ;
■ 'it And, just alike to passion, time and place,
it- Refine correflnefs into ease awl
s h lie (aid—...nd flying o'er each qi«vV|nr wire,
'.nl „ pr " h|B |'ght hand, and iVcpt it cm the fore
>h- 2?"* t0 4 h,s »?<* tbe hegan to glow, ' /
The found to kindle, and'the air to flow,
" peep as the murmurs of the falling flood?.
, ee J." ,I,L ' warblers of tbe vocal wood, ;
ho Ihe lift ning passions hear, and fink and rife
"> 2.? the r ' ch har mony, or swells or dies,
,fy The pulse of avarice forgers to move,
It. P urcr "l"".""* fills the breast of love ■
id s PVOTION lifts to heaven a holier eye,
And bleeding pity heaves a fofter sigh.
:i ,f j , ha s ' ts ea ' c > araufement, joy and fire,
Hid in Itfelf, as music in the lyre ;
a d ' thf ! v rc - w !" all its powers impart,
° d n !?H ch J and ma n a g'<i by the hand of art:
d, ®" 1 half mankmd, like- Handel's f.ol, destroy,
hi , hrol f h , ra S« and ignorance, the strain of joy :
' Irregularly wild their passions roll
i I h . r< ? Ugl ' ,Nat,,ra ' 6 inilrument, the sovi..
"t While men of sense, with Handel's happier
0' ikill, rA
it Correal the t ifte, and harmoniae tlie will,
» c ? ch t , h l e "' affeflioru, like his notes, to flow,
it 1 "5 s d to ° h 'Bfc» nor cn-ct fntik> w J W!>
I n V V vrtue me afnr'd and .efin'd
r- M 1 s . ? F° R . cs , rt °> master mind,
Melts in Its kindred founds, and pnurs along
The according music of the moral'fong.
I FOR SALE, BY
Joseph Anthony fcf Co.
le N °- J. ChefnutAfreet,
. A cargo of choice Bourdcauißraady, ll{ aad ad
/ proof, just landed
" tjo bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior qualit*
>e 9 do. Surat, do do 7
■y A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
,f! Bourbon Indigo of the fir ft quality
j i H'gk proof Jamaica ipirits
, 0 Old London particular Madeira wine 7ln pipes &
do. market do qr. cafcs.
J New England rum in hog/hcads
• I Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
I Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
n Prime Boston beef
s j Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half bartfa
■■ 1 B H Da - Herring in do do
r Be* Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fate
. New-England tow l : »m
r A few tons ofßufiia cordage
, i RufEa featherbed*
t ' Clover and Timothy feed in sa&s
/. Long whalo-bone
r No I, a, and 3, Boston Tail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea
1 Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
t An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware "
_ N °vemb«r 8.
Wharton and Lewis~
If AVE FOR SALE,
. At their Store and Insurance Office for ikippm?
No. 115, South Front-street,
Jamaica Rum, 4th proof, ■> entitled to
All cant Brandy, ift & id proof /drawback.
Madeira Wine, and
few hoglheads of Juniper Berries.
OfloHer 3 r. r ot s
To le Sold, *
A V:iluable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
ieven miles from this City ; the buildings may bo
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and possession had in a few weeks.
Part *' }}* e purchase-money being paid, a reason
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer.
November S mwM
Clocks and Watches,
Of every defcnpirdn, opening for Sale, bv
EPHRAIM CLARK,
dt bis New Shop, Corner of
MARKET and FRONT STREETS.
-"■— A LSO
An extensive and general assortment of
Tools, Files, and Materials.
CONSISTING OF
Clock Movements and Clock Dials, eight day
and thirty hours cast brass, forged work and Pin
ions, Bells and Hands, Cat Gut, screw and draw
Plates, Turkey Stones, Pumice, Emery and Rot
ten Stone, Springs and Giiffos, Chains, Key*, Seals
&c &c. Spring and Handing Clocks.
oa. » 7 . eotf
Philadelphia, 08. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their friends and custo
mers in rown and country,that their stores are now
open in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from the present appearance of the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
shortly come to the city with perfedl faftty. By
fnveral late arrivals, numbers have received freih
supplies of GOODS.
litbert Smith Izf Co. P. W. Gallaudet W C».
John Da-vis & Co. Sitgreavcs & French,
Neill ts" Smith, George Dob/on,
Wiltbcrger and Smith, Thomas Kjerfon,
Alex Bit/land and Co. 7. R. Hardevberg•
Jacob spe rry and Co. John Smith and Co-
Owen £5" Jena. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele Zantzingrr, Ifi/liam Barker Co.
Adam Zantzmger, Thomas Armat & Son.
John Frits, J. Miller, jun. and Co.
Berjamin *Jobnft*ti.
0&. la
Philadelphia, 0/3. 24//;, 1797.
ALL persons deCrous to contract to f«rntfh Ra
tions and Quarter Mailer's Stores, during tha
year 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on Mud Island, Carlisle anu Reading, or
any of them, a-x desired to deliver their proposals,
under a sealed cover, on or before the icth No
vember next to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to eonjijl of
I pound Flour or Bread
I pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Pork
i gill Rum, Brandy or Whiskey
1 lb. Candles
2 lb, Soip ( _ ,
2 quarts Vinegar f 0 hundred rations
I quart Salt ° ) SciftigthNFOR SALE,
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horfrs are all
flrong, true to the draught* and capable
of hauling as great a weight as mofi in the coun
try. Ihe Waggon and Gears are itrong, and
[W enocl order. Apply to ROBERT GRE£N,
Town, Chelter county, or t°
Thomas Fijher,
No. 142, S. Second Street, Pliila 'elphia.
U mo. 2, eodjw.
In the Press,
And fpeediljr will be published by William
Young, No. 52, Second, the corner of
Chefnut Street,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles established in the elements
of Medicine, of the late eelebrated
john BROWN, M. IX
With an attempt to correft some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly fe!e<fled from the records of their pracftice,at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Sr William Tatrs& C«At. Maclean.
To which U subjoined, a Treatise on the action
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the curt of diseases of indirefl debility
Andadiilertation enthe sources of Epideoiicand-
Peftilentialdifeafes; in whichisaitempted toprove
by a numerous induilion of faifls, that they ne
ver arile from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicifiitudes of
the atmofp.'iere, by Cha&l-es Maclfan, of
Calcutta.
Ofl. jt. Jut
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
M t L LS.
SEYMOUR'S Patent R»&rs.
THEIR superiority confijh in being frtefrom
bolts and honey-combed place*, which are com
monly found in rollers caji in Jiind, or clay
moulds. These patent-'rollers are cafl in iron 1
prcvioujly heated, and •will be found to I
be mare dense, solid end durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they, have wcr others, is, that tbe necks requirt
no turning, but are immedaitely ft for use, anjj,
from their accuracy, run with less friflion, and
require less luater to make them perform their
vjork. 7hey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or of.MeJfrs. Thatcher and Hay ward
Bt/lttt, Aug. u. 'Sept. 19. §(>t.
• ~ This Day is Publiflied,
BY Meflf. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant-y printed «n fVove paper, and Hot
prejed.
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
thlt of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
classing together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of adminiftratien ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress ef the
United States.
Dedicated to »ho People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printedoa an inferior pa
per, at j-4thsof a dollar.
February 6 mwif
City Commifiieners' Office^
June »», 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feledk
and common councils, parted the 2id day as
May last, appointing the city commiflionert,
and prescribing their duties, fe<9ion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city* is divided into five diliriAa,
•aeh to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city eommifiioner», whois to he individually
relponfihle for the deanliriefs ef the fame, and
are as follow-
Drift rift No. 1. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce-street, I*l
- fuperistendcncc of Nathan Boys.
». From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
thenorth ftde of Walnut-ftreet,under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to thefouth
ftde of High-flreet, under the fuperintendcnce ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under the fuper
lntemi«»«enf Willi*m Moulder.
5. From the nortn udeof Mulbcriy-llritt to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the luper
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecleaningof Hirgh-ftreet to be in common.
g? A stated meeting of the city commilfion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'cleek.
July 14* eoim
Stands for Draymen, tsV.
In purfuaritt of an Ordinance from theSeleU and
Common Councils,bearing date th* 22d day of
April, 1797. providing for the appointment of
City Commijfioncrs, <Sc. SeS. tbe iftb.
following places are fixed upon by the
X said City Commiflioners for Standi for
Draymen and their^Horfes.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-fireM, on
both fides.
Saflafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward ot Front-street, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-# reet.
Front-street, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black lierfeal>
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide,
Waler-flreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce Jar-street, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South flreets, east of Frost
street, south fide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone croflings, east fide, opposite George
Orkley's.
Second-street, between SalUfras and Vine
ftre'is, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets. . ,
SalTafras-ftreet, from Third to Foirth-ftreet,
ta No'dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth ,
between Chefnut and Walnut <
ftr ßranch-ftr'oet,. north fide, between Third and 1
Fourth itreets. J
July 14. mw&fipi I
LAW BOOKS,
i Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. jo, Masket street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals from
London and Dublin, theii spring importn
> tion, confiftingof a variety of the latsft and mod
approved 1 aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenlive collection ev
er offered for sale in thi« country. They thei efore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
. conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrilh
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latest
. publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, i
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicks ; Flayer's Pre&ers
Pra&ice in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's
Trcatife on a .%ut in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, i
parts cc.-npletc ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports', It vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Riqe ocpeA to receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York die 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be publiftjed,
with all convenient expedition, by Zicha
kiah Pdulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fukferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. lawtf
"THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,'"' "
And for Ole by 7HO MAS DOBSON, at ihe
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED. /
Confiding ofa variety of Miscellaneous Piece* for
the Inftrnition and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS—■SixVolumeshandfomely printcdand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces »re
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally esteemed one of the moll valuable pub
lications th >t can be put into the hands ef young
ptirfons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thoeght,
To teach the young idea how to (hoot,
l'o pour the freth inftrudlion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
August 14. mwf4w
THIS D IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone Vo«fe,
No. 41, south Second Sreet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Ynng Ladiei,on improving and in
teresting fubjcfti.
Trmflited from the Ditch of Madinte is Caaba
with alterations and improvements,
Printed MJint paper, and neatly bound,
Price ene dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales of extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the hooor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to fo~
licit notice, where i 1 a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, becaufs
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the female
charaßer is exhibited in an intereAing point of view,
and prefects example* of real and attainable excel
lent?.
The publifcer wa9 fomuch pleafedwkh the per»-
sal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleaflng
fcrviMto the community fay (ending it in: o circu
lation. August 24—mw4w
Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above a<sl may he had a)
he Office of the Gazette of th« United States, N«.
119, Cfeefout-ftreet. July 19.
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN W Company,
is dissolved by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands against the said Honfe arc de>
fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
meat to him—By whom bafinefs will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. J9,South Front-street.
Augvf 7 eod4w
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
'.uguft «. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Cariijle,
Sbtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requcfted to take notice, that
the partnership which has for foraetime fab
fiftcd between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Seer, is now dissolved: bat, not as M.
Slough infinaatesto the public without jaft cause ;
as will mort fully appear bj a letter on the fub
jetft from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wiflies to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer nay have
the perutfal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeAly jnftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous fapport the
public were pifafed to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatchthat a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
those wnu wifli to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their featt at
George Weed's, the figti of the White Hurfe,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monifcy
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
cftablilhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will dart every WednefdaJ from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from theoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers deftfried for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed c« Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27,1797.
N. B. Thin Line ef Stages ftarta from the
house of William Ferrac, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wedncf
day mdrning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
frofa thence on every Thursday t performing the
fame routina daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf I
Herman. Leufper,
North Fifth street, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
T^XCELLENTred Kourdeaur Wine in cafttaai
boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in cafk>
Ticklenburg*
Russia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Linen
Heflhns
Waper and Table Cloth
Empty h a g S
Ceranion German Cloth
An afiortment of black coloured Ribbons
Fine German Laces
About twelvo tons Ruflia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Wifirfow Glass 29 —aaw
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
ditt *t Claret in cases
Just recoived, and for Sale by
Handle & Leech.
Aug. 21. lawtf
Will be Landed,
From on board the ftjp Active, Czpt. Blair, from
Hamburgh,
»o hales white Ruflia clean Hemp
% casks Clover Seed '
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North fifth flrtat, No. 34.
June if>. $
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate pojfejfion given,
A Convenient well finilhed Brick I cnement,,
with a cook house and other out hotifes,fitu
ated in a aleafant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, intht State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Weft-flreet, and extends
through the square to Paflure-ftreet, on which >1
ereded a iable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for Tale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-ftrect,
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( r ...
Yoyrig Hyson f TEAS
Imperial J
April *O. ' eotf
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
Jinvaluable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Houfc square. Thia lot it fifty-one feet front
on Waluut ilreet, and one hundr|d and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
prefetit twofmali two story brick houfei, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftorti, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and SafTafras
streets, containing in frout on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nipety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Theft houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and ate a very desirable filia
tion for a merchant, flour fa£or,or otheri who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable t*rms
for cash For further information apply to the
print«r.
July 31. m&wtf
TO BE SOLD,
And poffejjiou given immediate/yj
A LARGE two story brick Houfe,handfomely
fituatcd in Princeton. Th*re are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings ji feet in
length, and a piazza of 37 feet. There it a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and (wo
stables, one of which it new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two ftablesfor 17 horses. The heaV
thineft and plealantnefs of its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, render it a defirablc retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefa of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of
the (tables, make iteverywiyfuitablefor a tavern,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capiul
ftaad. Inquire on the premifet, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 19 —dtwiawlf
City of Wafhingtoß.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For lit Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-bout* so,ooo dollars,
& cilh 30,000, are 30,000
1 ditto 13,000 k. caO» 25,000 40,00*
1 ditto 13,000 k cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 30,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,600
1 cash prize of ro,ooo
1 do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
I® <!(>. 1,000 •• - 10, not
J® do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. ioo - - 10,000
»ci« do. "50 - • 10,000
400 do. »5 - - 10,000
1,000 do. to • 10,000
15,000 do. -lo - 15*,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blank*.
50,000 Ticket*, at Eight Dollars, 400,00*
N. B. To favour thofewh® may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the pri»e of 40,000 dollars will be
the lust drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the LA6T
but one :
And approved notes, feenfing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford aa elegant specimen of
the private building* to be erected in the City of
Wafhingfon—-Two beautiful defigps are already
felofted for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares j from these drawing? it ispropofed toerecl
twoeentreand "our corner buildings as fooaaspof
fibleafterthis lottery isfold, and to convey them,
whep complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner defenbed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduftion of five per cent, will
bo made to defray the neceflary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund Intended for the National Univeffity, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Dired
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued al
more than half the amount of thelettery.
SAMUEL BLODOST.
.5, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colam
hia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
jGilmait, Boston : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
fend of Richard Welle. Cooper's Ferry.
mrff
This Day Puliliftied,
And to he fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, eorner of
Second and Ghefnut streets,
Price 3-itths of a Bollar,
Obfervatiom on certain Documents
Oontainod in No. V and VI of
" The Hi story of the United State* for
the year 1796,"
In which the CHAito* or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Trrasury, is FULLY
REIUTEL).
WRITTEN nr UI MS ELF.
TMs publication presents a ccncife ftatcment
of the bafo means pra6tifed| by the Jacobins of the
United States to afperfc the chara&ers of those
parsons who are confidcredas hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton ahjj M,effr9.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the.fub
je& ef the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr, Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraay on the part
of the latter and his aiTociates to extort money.
(fjp A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchafcrs, for
cash. Ordors to be addrefled to Mr. Yowng.
AvqrtiQ 25.
No. 138.
DiJlriS of Penn/yltiania, to toit :
ft s ) R E ,T REMEMBERED, that on the
Jj twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, Josn Fenno, of the said dff
trifl ,hath depoiltedin this office the title of a bot,k,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, is the
words following, to wit: —
" Obfcrvations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
" ed States for the year in which the charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury. is fully refuted—
" Written by himl'clf "
In conformity to'he asl of the Congress ©f the
Ucited States, entituled, " An ail for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to tho authors an<? propri
etors of such copies, during'.he times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
CUrk ths DiJlriß •/ Fetfnfylvani*.
Jilty 27. W4W
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elepatit house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There arc two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
16 —and two are so conneiled by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed be
fides 5 in the garret, well finifhed for lervants.
There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 19,
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
Street:
Aug. Tf.
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second-Sreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, wfcich
commenced drawiag the 19th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the loft day oi
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. a, City of WaSviagton, No.
a, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in tha Schuylkill bridge and
Perk orarn Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing ia the course *f the fammer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- fce. tranfadhtd with the
utraofl attention.
June a tu&f
Erfkine's View of the "War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
TPrice 31 CenteJ
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ersiunc.
May 15 §
"state trials.
Sold b W. Yobno, Bookseller, No. 51, South S*-
cond-ftreer,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of FraneisHopkinfen, Judge of the Court of
admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—is sne large i voi vol. Price, in boauls,3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general afTortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
cgc, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
aapwted. July T —*
For Sale,
That well known plate, called
Ttxnr,
ON Nefhatniny *re«k, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 aeres and 94 percbee. Upon the
preraifesarea large two story stone houfie occu
pied asatvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a gt?»d threshing
floor, and tome oul buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefhatn
iny to its jumSlion wiih the Delawate, and thence
acrofsto the Jersey fhorc. It has the privilege
of one half the toll*ece;ved from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sab/cribcr,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Way »4- atawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMSRIIiGE with mach pleaf
tireand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she ha« received during four years refidenee in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he has made a fupenor anangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
•Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpeiflive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- Jimfrf
The situation is perfefllf healthy ; and made
more agreeibleby an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the hbufe.
Jufl Publifoed,
And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookl'ellers in tSe
city .price one dollar, twinty-fivc cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAJAIN SMITH BARTON, M. a.
June ao. *6t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. fl, Second-llreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sole, a very large affort
nirilt of Ennlijh, FrtncU t Latin ami Greek
BOOKS. Alfe, such elementary books
on Science, is are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
_ ['m» PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large linro. price r dol. 75 ets.
Ditto, common, price X dol. 50 cts.
All forts of. draw/iig, packing, priming, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paftebo: rds,
Iheathing and Hotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the best quality, used in th* counting hewfe, or
public office.
Catalogues of a mifeellaneous calleflion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. 2.V —Jaw6w
Just Publifbed, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
At hit Book-Store, No 68, Vfieh-Streeti
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REGISTER far thiUNIT ED STAl'tlS
FOR THI YEAR 1798 I
Containing complete and correfl lids of the Execu
tive, I egiflative and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, netcflary to be
known in every State of the Union.
EmbtlliJbeJ •with two bandfome Engravings,
One of which is depiflive of a melancholy fccne
that occurred during the American war.
OA. 18.
The Philadelphia, Atjion, anil 7 utkerton
MAIL STAGE.
THE proprietors beg leave to inform tbe public, that
tbey have ejlablifbcd a Stage between Philadelphia #
Atjion, Batflo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nace, IVuding River Jlitting mill, and tbe town of Tucl
j erton, in New-Jersey, to go once a week, and arcprovi-
I ded with good borfes, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for tbe conveyance of the mail, pajfengers, and
j goods. He Stage will flart every Thursday, at I©
o'clock, A. M. from Air. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
j lodge that night at foel Bodine's, at Longacoming ; and
on on Friday, at (> » clock, P. M. arrive at tjlcb £•
vans*t, inkcepsr, in TuclerUn, diflaht from the city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Eajt Grouftag
Plains 7 miles J where are good accommodation i for tra
vellers, and where are commodious and fafe passage boate
provided to convey pajengers to Capt. IVilliam War
rington s bouse, an 'Tuckers Jfland, adjoinining the At
lantic, where are good accommodations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the sportsman who wijhes to regale himfelf
with fowling andfifhing, may at this place be highly gra
tifei/, there being at almofl every fcafon of the year fowl
andfiflj in abundance .—'The Stage on its return, Jlarts
from the aforefaid C, Evans* s in Tucker ton, evlry Tuaf
day, at 6 0 clock, A. M. breakfajfs at John Bodines, at
Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at 1 o'clock, P. M. an Wednesday, arrive at tbe
aforefaid Cooper t Ferry. It is prefumcd that no route of
an equal diflance will be hfs expensive, or furnifh the tra
veller with a greater variety of amusement, as he will
not only have a pleasant fail to the atlant;c from Yueler
ton, but have the curiojity of feeing on the read thither a
number of capital fur nous and forges, and one fitting
mill, in complete order,and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or faSlors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are solicited to encottrage and support this sage (by which
they can be fa well accommoda'ed) tbe continuance of which
will much depend on their aid. The rates of passenger s
and baggage are as follows : For a passenger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper s Ferry to Tucker ton, including
* 4 Ih.if baggage, Two Dollars f for way passengers
per mile, Four Cents—ls© lb. of baggage equal to a pas
senger. Poflage of letters t newspapers, \Sc. will be
agreeably to law.
N. B. The mail croffesfrom the Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARDLE & Co.
Turk erton, Sept. 18. Of}. 5. —laivtf
The Norfolk MaifSTAOE.
THI3 Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Street?, in
Philadelphia, I'Vety Tuefdaf, Tburfday, and Satur
at 3 o'clock, in the irorningj arrives at Do
ver the firftday, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fetry,
every Tuefjliy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wednesday Friday ;;puts up at Snow
Hill thefirft sight, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between thole places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is raoft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
diftanie, so good a road in America.
Angtift 11. dim. eotf.
Window Glass,
Of Quality, and cheaper than any other hi
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the Tingle Box or Quantity, may be had at tHe
store of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front
ftreet,
James C. Iff Samuel IV. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
Lately Publiflied,
In «ne vol. 8 vo, (price dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut streets,
A Collection of Papers on thefubje&of
BillioUs Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH IVtRSTER, Jux.
Containing letters .from Doctors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c. &•.
Sept. 1 J.
THK SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES OREEHLEAFj
HEREBY»ive notice, that they have disposed
of\he property afligtted to them for the fecurinj,
the payment of the note, acceptances, and er. •
doffements given by Edward Fox, for the us'
of the said James Greenleaf; and the holders 0$
fuih notes, acceptances, and entlorfements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubftribers will fetfe
with for the amount of their refpe<3i>e
elaims, both phin-cipal and interest, ,t
any time before the 2cth day of Oilober next;
after which day, the holders not apjdying, wi|l
be excluded, agreeably to the term« of affig.i
ment.
Applications to be made at fouth-eift cora v T
of Dock -and S4eond ftl-eets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hoars of eleven and one o'
slock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
The. W. Francis,
John Milttr, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baiter.
Philadelphia, AugwA 18, iJSui* 4