of tije Mnim and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 151 i
For Boflon, »
The Schooner
s ally,
Asa Scudde-r, Mafler,
NOW lymp at Chefnut-ftneet wharf f will fail
ir.» a few day*. For freight pr pafTage, apply
to the Captain oh board, or to
Jcfepb Anthony, Co.
For Sale an board fitid Sceoomr,
A few barrels of flat MACKAREL.
July 13. » Jt
Persons having freight on board the said fchoo
nt>r, are defirrd to call immediately for the fame.
For New-York,
Little Sallv,
James Taylor, after,
L\ INO at (''Kerfiut-ftrttet wharf, will lail in a
few days and take freight very low. /*pplf
00 board, or to
Jofepb Anthony fcf Co-
J»'y n- djt
For Amsterdam.
the ship
Four Friends,
t Joseph Olinn, Mailer ;
WILL fail with all convenient fpced, the grea
ter part of her cafffo being ready. Far
& ight or j/alfage apply to the captain on hoard, or
1 jftjfe lif Rob. Wain.
J"ly». ■ ,its
For Savannah,
. • v The Ship
SWTFT packet,
P Mailer,
"VT OW lyingat Wilcocks'wharf,
and will positively fail on
Saturday, nth inft. She i 9 handsomely accommo
dated for passengers, and fails well. For freight
er paffaje apply to the nrafter on board, or
N. & y. Frazier,
No. 95, South Front-street.
WHO HAV* TOR SALE,
Prime Rice in -whole arid half'
tierces.
J"'y s»sth
For Hamburgh,
cha'R LOT T E,
F' Darutiberger, Mafler.
ILL be ready to receive the cargo in a few
days, and is a faft failing (launch, good ves
sel, well found—For freight or paflage, apply to
' George Fennock,
No. 103, Mar let-firett.
J"'y ?• jawjw
L AN D I N G,
At W.lnut-ftreet wharf, from bosd fllip Man
chester, flenj. Shewell, matter, from Bonrdaaux,
Bourdtaux Brandy 1
Old Claret in hhds. 1
Medoc Wine in cases
Sauterne do. do.
For Sale by
Thomas Murgatroy4,
x No. I), Walnut-Jlreet.
Said Ship for Freight or Charter, ]
rjiT2"V. ® ur, ' len *BO tons, Philadelphia .
built of live Oak and Cedar, will
ready to fail in a few day«. 1
Apply as above.
__ July j. mwf '
For Sale, f
' t
The fine and remarkably fall
Virginia and Philadelphia t
Rofs & Simfon.
June 11. dtf j
For Sale, £
The cargo of the brig Enterprize, Captain c
l angdon from Bcurdeaux, new landing at p
Morton's wharf, f
consiting or
514 hhds. of Claret 2 .
•Jl; cases of ditto -a "2
roo of Swi.'et Oil . 2 E
Uo pipes London proof \ c « -
10 jfipes of Holland j BRANDY -j «
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St. 1
Said Brig, r J
WILL tike a FREIGHT for V
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails ¥
burthen about fifteen bun
■Ac*a>-J«^S barrels,-is in completo or-
der, and wHI be ready to rcceiye a cargo in a c ' r
few days &
Apply as above. B,
May 24 §
The Subscriber a
GIVES notice to all to whom he may be
«d, that he intends to embark for Enrope in a few j,
days; and that he will not pay ahy demands which j
fhall not be presented to him prior to his departure, p,
Wm. SMITH, of South-Carolina. D
No. 104, Spruce-street. E<
Philadelphia, I xth fuly. t4
The Shareholders
Of the Pennsylvania Population Company, r,
ARE requested to meet at the Company's Of
fice, No 53. North Fourth Streeti on Saturday Ml
the 15th inft. at ii o'clock. an '
By order of the Board,
SOLOMON MARACHE, §ec'ry.
July 1. #i6t.
Bank of North America. /
July 1, 1797.
At a meeting of the Direiilors this day, a di
vidend of Six Per C«nt. was declared for the
last half year, whishw ill be paid to the Stock
holders or their repjefentativc*! at any time af
ter the 10th inll
, July 1. diw. j
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, JULTt S , i 7Q7
LANDING,
j\ T Scuth-flrcet Wharf, from 011 l<o*r>l fchoon-
X er Expedition, captain Harding Wiiliauris,
> from St. Thomas, a Cargo of
ii f a y Coffee, Sugar, and Rum.
pply For S»l« ky
F. Crfptrt^er,
, No. 221, S«uth Front-fare*.
J tt) y »Q- § tot
j' oo _ Wants Employment,
le. TN a flore, a Man who can be well rccommcncl-
X ed, writes a good hand, and understands ac- I
coinpts. Apply at No. 50, North Fifth Street, and
Cherry-alley. Any reputable place will suit.
J nl T to-
A Wet Nurse Wanted.
in a A Healthy W ..man with a good bl-eaft of
jplr . inilk * ma >' h^lr of 1 P llce b y applying at
the Printing Offiee of this paper.
July 10. » jt
51_ Health-QJicc, Philadelphia, yth June, 1797.
'"I MiF, BturJof ffeaiti offer to rent out the-NKW
X CI TV HOSPITAL, ofually caHedThe IV'g
•wam.
It maybe occupied as a Tavern, for which there
ar« excellent accommodations. The perl'on taking
it nnrft be capable and willing to arfl in the capaci
rea- l [ "{ 11 Reward ;ia cafe a contageotis disease in
p er the city, fhoulii at any time render it neceffaty to
t,or niakc _ ufc the premises as a HospitaL It cannot
therefore te let for any limited time—and the red
• painted fragie building is to be referve'd. Protnfal,
what rent will be allowed under the foregoing eir.
cumftances. None need apply without being able
to produce the best recommendations.
JOHN MILLER, y, m .
Chairman of the Board of Health.
arf, *_
Z POST-OFFICE.
ght Philadelphia, 6th July, '97.
THE mail for New Cajile, Cantzuell's bt idgt,
Duck Creek erofs toads, Dover, Frederica, Mtf
ford, George Toivt (in the place of Clowes J and
Dagjborougb, in Delaware ; Trap and Snow \
j „ 'Maryland i Horn Town, Accomack C. ,
<lf H. and Northampton C. H- in Virginia ; ill ,
be clofedemery Monday, Wedntfday,*nd Friday, ,
at fun set- 18 , ,
1
the following valuable ;
Tra&s of Land,
IN the county of Glynn and Hate of Georgia, '
will be fold by public file, at eight o'clock *
on the evening of Tuesday the a?th day of June *
er. next, at the Merchants CofFee-Houfe m this ci- „
ew ty s unless previously disposed of by privatefale. ''
ef. ift. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
, confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad- ~
joining the commons of the town of Brunfwiek,
originally granted to John and within
6 1: iltiof the Atlantic ocean.
»d. 15,000 acres on the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally runted F
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
"• 3d. 50,000 acres on the waters of the little •
11 ' Satilla rirer, and of Huffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks j the great Satilla road pafles through
thele lands, which were originally granted to p
Ferdinand O'Neal. U
4th. 50,000 acres on tHe great Satilla river, 8
which »re also interfered by * branch of the 11
little Satilla, and were originally grated ten "
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates ffrm
r Thomas Davis, surveyor, and frotn Major C i
> Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the v
body of these lands are not thirty miles from f'
the ocean, and principally within tide water ; fl
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and ?,t
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large
_„ vefTels within ten miles of them ; that they are 1
chiefly firft rate pine lands, producing timber e ,
equal in quality to any in the slate of Georgia, t \
pofll-fling the fame advantages of navigation, d
The aboveroentioned certificates, together with tl
,a the patents, drafts, andother papers refpeiftiiig d
the title, which is compete and unincumbered, "
lo are in the pofTefiion of the fubferibers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at tu
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay- C 1
_ ment will be one third calh, the remaining two ; v
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three a id fix months after the (Lie ; a I d<
in conveyance to be made to each purchaser on the
at payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due. H
THOMAS PITZSIMONS, dl
JEREMIAH PARKER, CL
U BENJAMIN R. MORGAN. qi
3 Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
C. E. Whitlock, S
DENTIST, ' h
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Geo- '
tlemen of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he w
continues ko perform all operations on the Teeth ;fup- tn
, r plies the deficiencies ef nature with artificial or real
|, teeth, in alt the various modes of fiitinj—Cleans, ha
!_ files, regulates, extrafls, and fills decayed teeth with ih
.. gold or lead, &c. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at their houfcs, and will be happy to re
a ceive their commands by note, at Mis. Finch's, No. , n
66 north Eighth street, or at his house. next to the f*
Black Horse Tavern, on the fiankford road.
Dollars. »«
Scaling and cleaning _
A'tificialtccth, with enamel, per tooth, th!
Do. in gold socket* or ferews y
" Natural »eeth with ligature# y r^(
* Do. on gold or ivory foclcet% or gnFd ferews 10 [o
FUing and cmfing t away decay— each decav r n (
Filling with gold 2 .
Do. with lead * bl '
Eotrafling fto the families who employ him
a< dent ill) ,
Do. where not employed t
Tooth powder of his own preparing i
Brulhes, btft London manufacture *5 cents.
> Regulating, Ac. according to the operation.
V c - Wat Ttocs will fell the time of a Negro f
Man ; —he ii honest and fbbcr, and has about 5 years V
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
J une '3 <3tthtf pr(
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,- fl 0(
A SMALL invoice confifling of the following goi
Coast Goods, viz. thi
Blue Cloths m 3
Long Cloths, 14 punjums ; n j
Do. do. firie Jcr
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and of
Book Muslins
WILLING isf FRANCIS.
March 27. 3 , w ;
By John Fenno, N°- ri9 Cbefout Street.
New Hat and Ho&ery Store.
™- . Jnfl Jmpnrtrd,
iris, •«« the Jhtpt Wiliim, and SiarJr.K L< Ju k„ t md
now typing by.
WILLIAM AifDOU&A'LL,
A T his new Hat and Holierv Store, No 111
i- V Market street
An cle gaftt afLrtment ot silk, latum aui thread
, »tocfcipg{
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. Sic.
Likevvife, a h H rtdfomr assortment of men's, wo
men is, and children's fafliionabl* Hats, hiitablcfcr
tfie Season.
ic- A c ®'>fi'ierable quantity of low and mirfdle priced
□d ™ ®" in tales, intended for country fiores
Saw
The Coramiflioners
pOR carrying into effedl thefixth article of the
„ , treaty of amity, commerce and navigation, e«n
of dueled between hisßritannic majesty and "heUmted
at «ates ef America, »n the 19th day of November,
1794, having tfiis .lay conftitHted their Board,
puriuant aad agreeably to the said treaty, do Kere
_ by give notice, that they art ready to proceed to
business accordingly; and they desire that all claims
7- under the said article (which so far asthe fa ne de-
provided for, it hereunto
f- tanesed) may be lodged wi»h their Secretary with
out delay. '
X They further drfire that all such d«i..„ may not
'g only state in what manner the several cases com*
I- withirr the defcriptibn of the ftid artide, but also
in fpetial.y set forth .ht nature Of the evidence by
•° which the claimantsrefpe&ively undertake to fuiy
« I (annate tf,e fame.
f Extrafl from the laid artiele,
' "-Whereas.,it is alledged by diver? British mer
" " and °'IW9 bis majefiy's fubjeiSs, that
> debts to a confidfrabla amount, which were bona '
c " fide comra&ed, before the peace, Mil remain ,
owing to them by citizens or inhabitant* of the
United States; and that by the operation of va
rious lawful impediments, fmce the peace, not
' "Illy the full recovery of the said debts has been
~ ''""'i hyt alfothe value and feeurlty thereof
have been in several inftanctn impaired and lel£
" ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
•, Pj" oc eedings, the British creditors cannot now
" a ' n aiK ' "dually have.and receive full and
j " adequate compensation for the losses an J dama
. " & es which tney have thereby fufained : It is a
, greed that in all such cases where full compenfa- F
y " t ' on for such losses and damages cannot for what
' ev " rea son be a<3u,lly obtained, bad and recei- ,1
' " ved by the said creditors in the ordinary courfa
" of justice; the UnitecTStates will make full and "
" complete compensation for the fame to the said j
" creditors ; but it is distinctly understood, that
" this provision is to extsnd to such losses only as r
" have been occafrened by the lawful impediments
. ' aforelaid, and is not to extend to losses occasion- •_
" ed by such insolvency. of the debtors or other '
• " / a , S I* roult ! «9 ua "y have operated to pro
duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
exilted j ®or to fofh lodes or datnsges ss have r
" beea occasioned by the minifeft delay, ornegli. it
or wilful omillion of the claimaot;"
Bj order the Board, i
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Philadelphia, Commifionere' Office,
No. 3 south Sixth-street, May 10, A
-2197- J 6—Stm s
rHE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
tlie Envoy Extraordinaty and Minister Plcni
potentisry of his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
lor ..(lifting Briiilh creditors, and inch particular a
gcois a* they may fpeciaUy authorize, in proftcuting
their claims before the c«mmilfioncrs for carrying in- C
to effeft the sixth article of the Treaty of Amity, Com- v
and Navigation ktwen his Britannic and
tht United States AmerUa t heieby gives nonce that
he has opened his office at his house the Couth eatt A
comer of Chefnut and fifth Greets, Philadelphia, Q
v here he is ready to receive all claims or in{tru£tions
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the boaid may
think proper to preferibe.
And as it will be for the intercft of all concerned, J
that the several Claims be so dated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would from
the ncceffityof obtaining further infiitmation, or ad
ditional materials,from perfous rclidiog at a dutanct,
the general agent thiuks it his duty to add, (for the r j
diridion chiefly of those, who, not having employ '
ed particular agents, may leave the profecuiion of th
their claims to his charge and all di'
tuch claims ought in particulars ici torih— : tr:
lft. The proper description and Titration ot the TI
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpett- fl
ively.
ad. The date and nature of the original coatraft or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant was prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or deleft of law, the
decifionsand pra&ice of courts, or refliaiut of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
question.
4th The loss and damage incurred or fufained,
in conference of such impediments, whether tbt
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
fiti/fctien, or death of the debtor, th« loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or ether cauftfs impairiag
the value and lecurityof the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impedimenta had notcxifled.
And sth The particular grounds and rcafons oh
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that 41 by the ordinary course of judicial pFO
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and a&ually
have and recetve full and adequate compenfatiou" for
the lofTes and damages so Tuftaiucd.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
gefl that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as to the exigence
of the debh claimed, and such other circumfUnces
as may be within their own knowledge refpcftively.
And wherever the claimants in dating the nature of
their evidence (which mull in every instance be the
bed of which the cafe is capabla) have occasion to
refer to the tefli-mdny of witucffe*, it will be proper
to apprise the general agent of the names and places :
of refidcnce of such witnefieiand the faftito be effa- ry
blifhed by their teflimony. KN
Wm. Moore Smith. bo '
_ Philadelphia, June Bth, 1797. dim c ' ol
For Sale, u
That well Inawn plact, called Vjndkgrift's '
F i- R. b Y, pOl
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles From Phila- J
ladalpbia, o« the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
prencifet are a large two fiery ft one houfooccß
pied,as a tvern, and a good one story fton? kit
chen, a largo frame stable with agoodthreflung
floor, and lome out buildings-r-alfo a well of
gocd water, and an excellent ice Iloufe. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jundlion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jenfc-y fiiore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received fro> site bridge.
For terms apply to the SnWftiiber,
MORDECA* LEWIS.
Philadelphia and Lancajier Turn-
P lke Company.
A y*ly tcth, 1797.
T a meetirg.of the Prefuknt and rvianag, rs.a
dividen j of feveu and a half dollar* oer Si.n e
was .declared for th P lass half year, which will he
retained by the Preiidsa; and Manners for the-
P^ r Polebot paying che debts of the Company, a
jreeabfe ro a rtfolution of the Stockholders the lath
June.last.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treafuter.
0 frvn, i} x Mmuta vf the Stn ltbtldtn.
June 14th, 1797.
,T' lat t! , e '"''ftriptirin opened for one hundred
a ditional shares of flock, conformable to a rsfoiu- ,
ion of the nth January, 1796, L, e now doled,
and that the stack »f the Company cwufiCt of
v t velve hundred mftead of thirteen hundred shares.
>e Wm. GOVETT, Secretary,
j . '" T ro - rp&wiw ni&tiuw
I; Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
o 4 ANtttV OF PRIMX
St. Domingo Cotton,
0 Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent Inttia Market
Teneriffe Wine,
t In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chests best
3 Frefc Kyfon and ) ,
■' Hyson Skin \ TEAh
Muscovado Sugars in Hogfteads, and
Coflee in Tierces
March 7. j| tf
; Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
1 Have fur sale at their Jl»re, No. 70, attaining ,
George Latimer & Son, Pine-Jfreet IV/wrf,
A Qyaijtity of 1
Madeira Wines \
In pipes and half pipes I
adeira Walnutsand Citron, lately imported t
in the schooner Sincerity, C'apt. Copia t
nt *lfi>
»j Puncheons, second and third proof, Weft, i
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy a
They have conftatitly on hand and for sale, a
French Burr and Country Mill Stones of various t
sizes, and a general assortment of Bmltbg Chths of a
the bell quality, both American and Foreign ma- h
nufa&ure. The former having proved, from fe- \
veral years experience of a number of millers in c
different parts of the United States at lead equal, o
and in many instances superior to the European £
Cloths, we hope the manufadurer, Robert Daw a
f«n, will meet with liberal encouragement in this i
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain- t
ed a patent aid exclusive right of making and ti
vending Boulting Cloths on his improved plan for a si
number of years, and they are fold only by him- v
felf in Lancaster, state of Pennsylvania, and by a
the fubferiberi in Philadelphia.
June 14 d
* Landing "
From on board schooner Daphne, captain j-
G. W. Morse, from Htfpanioia, L
61,000 wt. Sugar,
5 3,000 Coffee e
for sale by 8
F. COPPINGER, |]
No, 221, South Front-street, u
Who has also on hand,
Claret in hhds. and cases
Rice f<
A quantity of Bristol Bottles
A cafe of Cafhbrics
Cloths and Caltimeres.
July 5- d6t.
A Literary Treat.
JuJl publijhed, handsomely printed on -zuriimg
paper, price 1 dollar, ''
A new edition of that popular and entertaining G
work, entitled
' r HK rORESTERS,an American Tale ; being
t a ftqncl to the liiHory of John Bull, the Clo- e '
thicr>—ln aferitsof letters to a friend, with thcaj- 0
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political Cc
tranliilioin in Amoiica. 01
Th« following sxtraiil from the Clavis AHegorica, _
shews the principal charafters that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdtifn of England
His Mother, the Church of jitiglahd
His Wife, the Parliament
Hii Sifter Peg, the Church of Stotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland C
Le* is, the Kingdom of France k -
His Mistress, the Old Conftitutioi>
His new Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom
Nicholas Frog, the iSutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hampfhife
John Codline, Maffachtrfetts
Humphrey Plowlhaie, Comieclicat
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Juiius Cxfar, New-Jersey
Wiliiam Broscbrim, Penofylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Washington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
George Trufly, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Elack Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
This'popular and entertainingfatirical kifto- p.
ry of America is attributed to the Kev. Dr- Bel
knap. It hasa great ihare of originality and a
bounds with genoine humour. It is conticued
down to the present time, and chara&erifes those
late political tratlfaSions which have caused so
much uneasiness in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
?outh Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' ftjeet.
June a 6. §
N FOR SALE,
By Sipion Walker,
A T o. 1.22, South Fourth-Street* f
GOLD andfilver Watchos T
Shot, common and patent fbe
Tin Plates, Sheet Iron « inl
Bar and flieet Lead thi
Copper (heets and' bottoms lai
Taunton Ale tei
Ravens Duck Crt
Hats io cases
Wpol Cards tlo
Claret Wine and Porter Bottles in hampers. an
July t. eojw
n~ Mijhsrt and Pilots bringing up VrjTth
Wfrcm Foreign Ports ley this City.
Herca-rfund- y imrii gemcnts have lately I,ecu
made np the .lavrscf this lU« for the ph.
venting j.eihj ntial or iafedKous diseases, bjthcr
he ,'gnoraiicc or mutentian thereto, it H tno'.t
he ' Jt , ti,u to P ub '' l, i t!v= ftteW ex
- SthtcW " WJ Gf 2,d A P ri1 ' ' ? th **
th
HEALTHS-OFFICE.
r „ „ Jure 6th, 1704.
S*S °! 1", ", a J~ or /curing the city and port
Oj I ixladelpbt.i from the UtrodtAio* of pe/li
,d lential and contagious diseases.
J. Sect. 7. And be it further en; ded, that every
° r , ca P'- ln .°'" an y ftl 'P or velici eomirg from
sf (veffdis ailuaily employed in the toaftintr tra e
6 excepted) and beUfti to any j»ort or place with n
the jurifchaion of Pennfylvania.ftaU cause his ffi p
or yeflel to be bi ought to anchor, or etherwile fla. -
_ IVh'! 1 ' ~l m oftkcTivcr Delaware,oppefitu to
the HeaihVufiice on StitMflind aforeihid, ana
there to remain until he (hall hive duly obtained a
certificate or mil of heal h from the Resident Ihy
fician. And it, previaufly to obtaining fuel. c. rti
r u T v£- ° £ ' any master or cajHain lhall
; ufter veiTdt" approach nearer than the
■ laid Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
IhaUand, cause erluffer to be landed, or brought
on ltrore, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent of being conveyed into tliis Csmrr.onwtc.kh,
any pcrloh or perfous, or any goods, wares or mer
clunoize, or, if after receiving fu.:h bill of heaWi
c ertr,;cate, he fnall negled or rcfaffi to deliver
• the lam,. to the Health-OlHcer, fitch master or cap
tarn shall forfeit and puy, far each and every fudi
. ° t nC j' .^* e fu lll of "VE HUNDRED DOLLARS.
rra it > C ®' Ka:n or ma^er of every Ibip or vef
l . V alaf= and coaimadieus boat tu bring
the physician 0:1 board, and lhall in like manner
convey him back to the Health-Office, after lie har
concluded his official examination ; And while he
u making f ac h examination, \ir in cafe any fubfe
qnent examination by the Ileal h Officer or Con, .
luiting Physician, agreeably to the directions of
thisiau, the mater or captain lhall expo!e or caulc
to be exposed to thefearth of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Confuting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each-tnd evehy part ®f the
P or veff «). and lhall preterit to his view each
and every perlon <* persons on board thereof, and
and (hall alto thre and fatisfaflory answers make
to all iuch que {lions as the Resident Phylician, Jcc.
at the time of examination shall aflc relative to the
health of any port or place fr®m which the Ihip or
veficl lailed, or has finte touchei at—the number
ol persons on board when the (hip or velfel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that havo
iince been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpedtively— what persons on board—
s they have been during tht voyage, or lhall, at
the time of examination, be infedted with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pre
lent Hate and condition of the persons on board
with refpedt to their health or diseases. And if
any master or captain (hall refufe to expose as afore
a'd, to the search of auy of the officers aforefaid,
I; r if he (hall *onceat anyfuk per/on, or in any other man
e r deceive the prefer officers aferefaid in bis ant-were,
such captain or master, for every such offence, (hall
lorfeit and pay the sum of five hundred dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if any person or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) lhall
go on board any vessel, before the master thereof
Has received a certificate of health in the minner
directed, every person so offending, lhall pay the
UiU of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS.
" I
IT being absolutely necessary that the foregoing
feilions Ihould be punctually complied with, the
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, must ex*
ad a rigorous observance of the lame, or elf; DC
under the necessity of putting the laws in force.
Wm. ALLEN, Health Officer tf the
fort tf Philadelphia.
I"'V 14. ' dlw
NOTICE.
THE holders of certificates of a loan to the ex
iled citizens of the States of South Carolina and
Georgia, under an ait of Congress 13d Ju.y, 1781,
are informed, that by lodging the fame with
George Simpfon, Calhier of the Bank of the Unit
ed States, they will be enabled to receive payment
of principal and interest, as fooii as the certificates
can be forwarded ta Charleston for settlement, and
orders received fbr their dilcharge.
fit
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
SI FU I'ii at the uorth-taft corner of Arch and
FoUrtb-ftreeis. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refpeft well finiffiedi For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. Chefnut-ftreet.
3'- .1
FOR SALE,
BRETAGNES in casts
Gortftan Chfftksin do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in calks, &c. &c.
George Pennock,
10 Higb-Streit.
July 5 ■ 3avr
Now Landing,
-At Pratt's wiharf,
FROM on board the (bip Thomas Ch«ikley,
C»pt. Uafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in casts
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Sk'hs in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle Is? Leech.
May 15 §
Davis's Law Rook Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time pafc in prepara
tions for removing ipto his present house, has
been under theneceffityof paltponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen o: the Bar generally thro*
the United States that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
freence he has experienced for ieveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June 27. saw 6w
\VoLVMB XIIMajical Injlrumeni Manufactory oy
Nc. 1(?7» Arch-Slrat. Jp '
HARDER, hafpfechcrd, grand)-portkVile.grand, I begs
fid'-toard, pie? table and square piano forte and i
mak- r Oonc London, returns thanks » his friends hutu
and the public, for their liberal encouragement. LAt
and Uc« that by his afliduity and attehtion to eV- for t.
tij branch of his bbfmefs, to rrerit a continuance 1 the \
of their favors. Piano foftes thade on ths oeweft f or t
and raoft approved plans, with pedals,.patent, 1 e( 3 t,
f jvcll, and French harp stop, which he flatteis mo fl
himftlf Will ue. found eh trial by unprejudiced j,
fudges., to if not fupefiorto any import- I
efl, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inflru \ Jjy
hisnt piirchaled of him, if »ot approved of ill I
"twelve nititiths, he will exchange*' [
N. B. All kinds of Mnfical infttumentS made, I rr
uned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy, I
dilpatch, and on the tnoft teafonable term-, tor I eac l
ready motiey only. - 1 will
Secdnd hand Piano Fortes taken id exchange. tati
May«. _ *"'• t<dt
" —"COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies. I
MRS. OROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
Ihe has received during four years residence m TJ
Philadelphia ; and assures her friends and the A -
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, Ihe has made a superior arrangement for
the mote cpnvenient 'accommodation of her I j
scholars. —Evety branch of ufeful and polite I
education is particularly attended to by Mrs. 1
Groombridge and maAers excelling in their I
tefpe&ive profrfiions. I
Cdrner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. I
June j.th', 1797. Jitnfif | or
The situation is perfeflly healthy.; andmade 1 _
more agr.eeable by an cxtenfive gardefi and lot I
of ground adjoining tl;e houte. I
I O BE SOL D,
A valuable three story Brick House i
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it stands, ta- 1
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex- I
tends to Goforth-flreet. The houle is about 50 I
feet in front en Lodge alley, and about 42 feet I ■
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet j
front on Lodge alley, and 41 feet on Goforth- I
street, being a street which leads from Chefnut- I (
street and alley into Deck-ilreet at the j
horse market. The house consists of ti'.. jodg- I
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining I
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the I
other about thirty-four feet, each containing I
two fire plices, two parlours and a large kit- 1
chen, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets I
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot I
cf ground to the eastward between this h®ule I
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the bi
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant I o(
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on I
Goforth-itreet. The premises now rent for I c<
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear of all in- I j
cumbrances. I th
For terms apply to John Clement Stctker. I
April 20 3 lw 'f | f L
' 1 * ■ " 1 I
City of Waftiington. U
SCHEME 0
Of the Lottery, No. 11, b
For the Improvement of the Federal City. I "
A magnificent dwelling-house 10,000 dollars, 1
& calh 30jO00, *re io,®o»
1 clitto 15,000 & oafb »s>oos 40,00* 1
x ditto 15,000 ft cafe 15,000 3®,000 (
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 io,«eo I
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000 I
1 ditto i,OOO & cash 5,000 10,000 I
t cash prize of 10,000 f
1 do. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000 .
lo do. 1,000 - - 10, one 1
JO do. 500 - - 10,800 I
00 do. 100 - £. - 10,000 j
aOO do. 50 - • 10,000 I
400 do. *5 • " 10,000 j
1,000 do. »o " 1 0,000 I
15,000 do. «o - 150.000 I
________ » I
16«739 Prizes. ,
Sj,x6i Blank*. I
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400.00°
N. B. To favour those whs may take a quan- I
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be I
the la st drawn ticket, and the' 30,000 the last |
but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or priies, in ten days alter drawing, will I
be received for any number not less than 30 tick- I
ets. , I
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ol
the private buildings to be ere&ed in the City of 1
Wafliington—Two beautiful deCgns are already
lelefled for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed toereel I
twjcentreaild 'our cerp.cr buildings*,as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to cenvey them, I
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in 1
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel |
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray, the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be eredled within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Brizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
.§, Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Col»m
---bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W.Young, Bookseller, No. sa,South Se
cond-flreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of Francis Hoplsinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general assortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well aiforted, and entitled to the drawback if
exported. July 7 —*3t
Young Hyson Tea.
40 cherts of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
llreet.
C. Haigkt.
JunejM. , en| f
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship Acftive, Capt.Blair,from
Hambutgh,
stO bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
z casks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
NonhFitlii ilrtet, No. 34.
June >6. §
C A R D.
SYEVA*NTJS. Cui.n.i General of
the United States to the Batavian Republic,
begs leave lißreby to inalie knov/n tp his irietid.
and othcrsj that he has lately eftabliihcd a Com- 1
million House at Amfteulam, under the firm ot
LANGE and Itf'UKNE, by w.hrftn all orde.s S^A'
for the purchaie of merchandizs and of
the various public flocks of the United f.tates,
for the negotiation of loans, Stc. will be attend- _Di
ed to with proriptitude and fidelity, and on ihe tion 1
most reafoneble terms. He ii
Julyi 4: : _3t_ Willi
Infiirancc Company of North A
merica. liam
THE Dividend for the lad half year, declared ( 0
by the DireiSorsi this day, is one doUar on jjjj s
each (hare of the Stock of this Company; which
will be paid to the Stockholder:, or their r.eprefen- .
tatives duly anthorifed to receive it,*at any time as- man
tet the 28th inft. *
EBEN HAZARD, Sec'ry.
July IQ. w&fta th F
George Dobfon, that
No. 25 South Third-Street, the
I T "|" AS imported per (hips William Penn, Star, <<
I X 1 and Diana, from London, e( J j
5-4 Super London Chintz, elegant patterns, a(
I Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimities. "
ralhio.iable Waiftcoating, ncweft patterns. 01
Ribbands well assorted, in linall trunks. " ou
4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and Bi itifh Book-muf- and
I lins. fenc
I Fancy Cloaths and Caffnr.ers. , <■
The whole to be disposed of cheap for Cash e£ j,
I or approved Notes of a short date.
I . 1 i »c mei
: I Jutie 14. 07- "■ "■ t j ie
Just Received, .
From Batavia( via Providence) (
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality .
r I 100 half lacks do. do. in »
a few Boxes of Spices, confiding of to 1
"I Nutmeg, Cloves and Mace the
I For sale hy (V al
■ 1 KILLINGS & FRANCIS, "
Venn street.
' I may 30
- Georgetown Bridge Company. aJ
e I Extratf of an afl passed by the Lejfillature of W
theftateof Maryland on the 19th December, t J, (
» I 1791, entitled, " AnaA for treeing a brjdge j nc
c | over Potowmac river. n-,
- I T - And be it enaded, that the said direilors or
" I any two «f them (hall and may require any sum
s I or sums of money in equal proportion from each be
I I and every proprietor, as may from time to time frc
e 1 be necessary for carrying on the building of said ex
e I bridge ; and after giving three months public
14 I notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the direft
n I tors to sue for and recover in the namo of the
' r I company such unpaid requisition, with/ all costs
I and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest P ll
I thereon from the time the fame (hould have
r " been paid: And the or refufal to pay any
I such requisition after public notice (ball have
" I been given at lead for three months in all the
I newspapers herein before enumerated, shall have
I the effetf to forfeit all preceding payments made m
lon the (We or shares so negledled or refufed to m
I be paid t« the use and benefit of the company."
I mation of such of the ftoekholders as have not
I complied with the requisition! heretofore made cc
s ' —they are as follow ;On the ift November,
I »795> *° dollars, on the 10th May, r79&, 40 w
® dollars; an the aorti July, 1796, 40 dollars jon ai
I the ift September, 1796, 4° dollars, and an the y
ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution i> tf
ao "°* v P' vtn 'bat after the expiration of the time .
1 limited for the continuance «f this adveftife
-30 ment (three months) the law will be carried 19
into rigid and complete effcil against all delin- c
" I quents. ft
By order of the Direflors, p
II IV ALTER SMITH, Twjurer. f (
0P J Georgetown, May 1, 1797. iaw3m t .
To be fold at Public Vendue, *
ITo the highest bidder, at the house of Mr. £
William -Evans, the sign of the Indian ,
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 15th
I day of Oilobernext, at 11 o'clock, A. M 1
>OO I About feveo thousand acres of land, «
~~ I the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
an- 1 lying between Reiller's-town and Weltminftcr, {
be 1 commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
l,T I pike road runs through a cenfidorable part ot
I these lands) the traft begins about 17 miles <
k? r I from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
los said Reifter's-town, and extend* to the ifif- t
" I tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti- |
I more, and li« on tlje main falls of Patapfice
I °[ I river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
1 ?, I be fold in tradls of one hundred, and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor-
I tion of meadow and wood land on each trafl,
„ o f_ 1 some of them highly improved, with excellent
e m I buildings and fine grifs.
, in ALSO '
otei A traft of seven hundred acres of
Wl " I land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
inc " I Bladenfhurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
1 of I Richard Ponfonby,of BUdenfburgh, will shew
Ito I this land to any person inclined ( to purchase.
. I AJ.SO,
U- A traft of land ®f about three hun
d at I dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
I and a half of the President's house in the Fede
-1 ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
1m- I high profpefl, from which may be fcen the
'eter 1 city of Walhington, Blader.fburgh, Alexandria
nd ; I and a part of George-town, and many miles
I down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon-
I by, of Bladenfburg, w'JI also (hew this land.
" I A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
I part of the purchase money, she terms will
1 Se- I be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 "'a™
s > r Thirty Dollars Reward.
q " lt ' T? LOPED from the service of the fubferiber,
°_ Hi on the 19th instant, a negro man by the
dg C " name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
I and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
:nto £ a carpentet, and is a very lively bri(k work
jacfc* man. His countenance is very good—When
cli if I spoken to, he converses with ease and eonfi
j dcnce, and is pretty sagacious. I purchased
the said fellow ef Mr.Dubney Minor, in whole
I name he has been advertised in the Richmond
I newspapers. During his last runaway trip (last
I summer) he wis employed a considerable length
' los time, by feme person near Dumfries, from
[ which circumstance, I conjeilure, he has taken
!* b y I another nothern route I forewarm all
" ,ne J from giving him employment, of any kMi'S
j whatever, and maftersof veffelsand others, from
'• N carrying him out of this flatc. Ihe above re
>tf I ward will be given if he is taken within forty
" I miles of this city; 4nd an additional sum, in
I proportion tc> the distance he may be brought,
from j or the trouble and expence the apprehender may
I.Be at, in bringing him to this place.
AUG;
I N. B. His apparcUvas of tlie usual atgro kind,
I but he had more cloaths than is customary for
I them to possess.
34- ' * AD '
I Richmcm', June it, 1797-
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, >/y 15. J l^
— T)
Dr. Romaine lias undergone an fxamina- of of
tion before the committee of the House. natmj
He is here as a <witnefs only in the cafe of tains
William Blount, and consequently is not decor
held in durcje. The powers of the commit- ties <
tee are confined to the ijnpeachment of Wil- the j
liam Blount. They have received authority It de
to fend for persons and papers relating to fever
this fubjeft ; but they have no power of requi
course, to examine into the c6ndu£t of any felvei
individual, iiCt an officer of government. latur
(Aurora.) g
Fed,
From tbe process ifiued by the committee profc
of the house of Representatives, it a'ppears l£nc<
that the resolutions of the house under which such
the committee a£ts, are as follow :
" Resolved, that a committee be appoint- fult<
ed to prepare and report Articles of Im- venl
peachment against William Blount, a Sena- and
tor of the United States, impeached by this of 1
house of high crimes and misdemeanors 5 wro:
and that the said committee have power to But
fend for persons, papers ",nd recotds. thei
" Resolved, that the committee appoint-
ed to prepare and report articles of Impeach- a g ai
ment against William Blount, a Senator of I
the United States, impeached by this house the
of high crimes apd misdemeanors, be au- bad
thorized to fit during the recess of Congress. Ma<
" Resolved, that the said committee "be ' n 1
inftrufted to enquire, andbyall lawfulmeans, re P
to discover the.whole nature and extent of Sta
the offence whereof the said William Blount
stands impeached, and who are the parties P en
and associates therein." ' lav
Hence it cannot be true, as stated in some not
papers, that the powers of the committee the
are co»fined solely to the impeachment of ra /
f William Blount, or that they have no au- g' v<
• thority to enquire into the condutt of any vvh
: individual not an officer of the government; not
ft ill left can it be true, that Dr. Romaine Sti
, disputes the authority of the committee: it
1 being certain that he has attended them
t froiji time to to time, and undergone several pea
examinations. but
c ans
Colonel Nichols, the Marshal, arrived in .
g town on Thursday evening, after a fruitlefs sha
[I pursuit of Mr. Blount. No
y FOURTH of JULY. °\
g AT.BURLINGTON, NEW-JERSEV.
e The day which memory recals with so Nc
' e many pleasing emotions to the hearts of A- £ n
" mericans;—that reminds them of the erett & w <
manly spirit of '76, the high and invincible tai
courage of the defenders of their country ; «'<
r> —the unshaken honor and fidelity of those
[o who condutt the councils of America ;
in and the illustrious aftions of the virtuous fa
\ e Washington : the day which guarantees to
' 8 to posterity that liberty which is the birth- | F
■ lc right of man—and that independence which
•j is' the pride of a nation——was honored in this
n- city with dignified and heart-felt demon
ilrations of refpeft Divine service was
performed in themorning, andan appropriate
sermon delivered by the Rev. Do&. Whar
ton, after which Mr. Caldwell pronounced 1
a very eloquent, impressive and sensible ora
tion. The reft of the day was spent by the
r " citizens in feftive parties. The company at
dinner was numerous, and in finefpirits :
M the following toasts were given and drank
with great cordiality :
1. The Day—may it never cease to shine j
cr ' on the independence of America.
2. The memory of those who wrought
| cs out the freedom of their country. (
rdj 3. The United States of America—may f
sis- their union ensure happiness at home, and (
] l '- their courage command refpeft sbroad. l
! ce ! 4. The President of the United States, (
' and all who like him cherilh the peace and .
lo ° assert the honor of their country. (
,a, 5. George Wafhington —may his virtues ,
cnt 'in private life, convert those who could doubt
his political integrity.
6. Qur public men at home—those who
°f love and rcfpeft the constitution and govern
sot ment of their country —not those who hate
I^Si and betray both.
lew y. Our public men abroad—those who
honor and serve their own country ; not
jn those who vindicate, flatter, and serve the
nation which robs and insults it.
"d" 8. Mr. Pinckney and his colleagues—
fine may extraordinary powers ensure to him a
the less extraordinary reception at Paris,
dria 9. American agriculture, manufa&ures,
lilts an( j commerce—may they flourifh protected
(° n " by American wisdom and valor.
ft 10. The women of America—may their
w ill manners and falhions become as distinguished
as their virtue and beauty,
m 11. The state of New-Jersey.
12. Religion, law and liberty—may A
. mericans and all the ivorhl maintain theft,
J the against infidelity, aharchy, and horrid def
age, potifm. ' . *
rade 13. Friendship With alt 'friendly nation*.
°rk- 14 . The county and city of Burlington.
hen 15. Universal peace, freedom and hap
piness.
'I f 16. The true American, who neither
nond blushes at the plough nor trembles at the
(lafl sword {by major Lucas).
ngth
ak«i Extraft of-a letter Savannah, dated July I.
tfiftis" » A vessel arrived here yesterday with a
bout 40 Frenchmen, bound froth Charlcf
frora ton to St. Augustine. They give out that
f re " they are going to fettle there. As they ap
„rZ pesr a Idrinilitaire, they are donbtlefs going
unht, to join in repelling the attack which it hat.
may been reported the Engliffi are. meditating a
gainst East Florida. A few of the lame
people lately went from her«j to that Prb
km<!' v ; nce . A good look out was kept on them
7 • lor left tli<Sy mirfgt take some of our domestics
j) under their patronage ; this it was wiven
out was intended."
For the GaZuTTs of the Umitf.d States. ' necefla
I HAVE been led, Mr. by the L n
perufalof a letter addressed by the Minister
of Spain to the Secfetary of State, through
the channel of a public print, to lament that
the Constitution of the United States con- j
tains no provision against such publications. . ,
This letter, which is at once a gross abuse
of official situation and a mean of diflemi- (
nating the poison of foreign politics, con- '
tains sentiments, so exprefled as, to outrage
decorum, and insult the constituted authoi i- at j on
ties of our country ; and calls loudly for ttent
the prevention of such indignities in future,
It deVnands from the People of America a
1 severe and unreserved reprobation—nay, it
7 requires of them, if they are jull to them-
- selves, such inftrufitions to their State Legif- j t
latures and to their Representatives in Con- •
grefs, as iriay procure an amendment to the , * , t -
Federal Constitution, which (hall effeflually j
. protect our Government against the info- !
s lence, arid our country against the injury of | (t
1 such unwarrantable proceedings. I j
Much too long have we been abused, in- j eUe]
. fulted, and injured by appeals from the Go- er c
r Vernment to the People of the U. States, •yyj ]C
and much too long has the forbearing Ipirit .
is of America submitted to these reiterated ° ,
. wrongs, on the part of some foreign agents. (
o But faith and temper have both of them
their limits, and, cealing to believe, we may
t- cease to tolerate these diplomatic anathemas
1. against the government of our country. k ee n
3 f Let it be asked what would have been
f e the conduft of the Spanirti Government
a . had the American Minister at the Court of
" s . Madrid presumed to have indulged himfelf
3e in such a newspaper animadversion on the (
,8, reprefeatations made by their Secretary of ( j er
of State to" the Catholic King. x
nt Will any one pretend to fay that a fuf
e3 pension of intercourse with hiiji would not
have taken place, or that his recall would
ne not have been requested ? And what is ; Q
ee there in the personal or representative cha- :
of rafter of the Chevalier de Yrujo that should '
u . give him claims to the exercil'e of a power, !
ny whicb, under similar circumftanceSj would 1
lt . not be allowed to the Minister of the United j
n I States at the Court of Madrid ?
it _americanus. and
We hppc, with apostolic fervency that Euro
ra pean ground will now fee tinged with no colors rtcL
but those of Nature, and that receacfled Außri- oth
ans and French may repeat, Un
in "No more the thirsty entrance of the foil the
ess Shall daub her lips with her own chrdretS's blood.; cor
No more fliall trenching war channel her fields, t j K
Nor bruise the flowers with the armed hoofs, ,
Of ho&ile paces— _ . €
All now, in mutual well beseeming ranks me
March all one way .and are nq more opposed wil
TJie edge of war, like an ill (heathed knife,
No more Ihall cut his matter." u p
England will be likewise soon at peace with all the £>l
t & world, as well as with herfelf, a period of Auguf- ,
ble tan tranquility witnefled, atid the temple of Janus
rv • closed. By very late accounts from London we mi
V learn, that one Evans and Joyce wer« the Catalines St
in the late nautical conspiracy. 1 heir talents and B;
» habite w«re well adapted to do evil work. The n0
ous firft war a pcttytoggiog attorney, struck ciT the ,
iteet rolls for malpradice among his clients at Wap
rth- P ; ng; the latter was an IriSi tobaccouift, lhippti VII
lich f° r feditioiis harangues,. Order is rcllored ; and ol
•j. the repentant (\ilor so
fnis « Weighs anchor, heaves the log, ca
ion- Belays the sheet, .
was And drinks his can of grog."
(farirur > Weekly Mvfutm)
bar- a '
ce j 1 The following article copied from the Fred- p>
ora . erick'Toivn paper, publilhed by Mr. m
the Winter, contains the best lketch of the at
vat views and politics of the Members of
. the House of Representatives at the b
. an u late Session of Congress, that we have ' 5
seen. It merits attention. t'
FREDERrC-ToWN, (M.) JUNE 28.
e Extra 9 of a letter from a member of Congress
to agentlemau of this city, June 11, 1797. 11
J g"t 4< p a p ers }j ave informed you how c
Congress has been employed since their v
ma X meeting. That we have talked much, but p
an done little. A view of the majority on the c
votes of the answer to the President's t
ates ! speech, and the coiiduft of many of that y
majority since, prove they were not all feri- 1
ous in the promises they then made. The '
rtU S B answer was firm and strong enough. Our I
0 situation at this time demands such a tone ; '
and if* the sincerity of .our declaration had
0 been evidenced by subsequent mcafures, we
v " n " might calculate upon much good resulting 1
f roin such a conduft. Though there has '
beeii much mutual crimination in debate, as
° to the views and motives of party, as also
5 much personality, I would willingly hope,
e as we must all be interefied in, so we must J
wi/h, for peace. We, however, differ widely '
J 1 ? 3 as to the' means of accomplishing this.—-
3 Some consider the present as a very impor
tant crisis in the affairs of this country, and
- eS ,' suppose they fee in the conduct of France
tected towar( j s USj designs and attempts dangerous
. to our independence and threatening to our
peace ; and they believe much of this has
arisen from a misconception of our real cha
racter. Thinking as Ido with those gen
. tlemen, we believe that every honorable ef
ay r. f or t fliould be made towards an amicable
{t r' accommodation of our differences. That,
in the mean time, we should adopt such mea
sures of defence and proteftion, as will in
l°"S' spire confidence at home, and refpeft a
lgton. b) . oa( j > That we should convince France
P" and the world, that we have some reliance
. , upon ourselves. That, as we do not owe
' elt our independence to any nation upon earth,
at so we will not consent to hold it on courtesy.
That we are an united and determined peo
ple. That we are attached to the Govern
uly I. raen t of our free choice, and will not be fe
vith a- parated from it—That we respect the con- j
harief- ftituted authorities, and have confidence in
t that their aC.ts. This, I would proclaim, both
ley ap- by word and deed. This would give weight
going and success to negociation. This has pro
it has duced the warm oppolition on our part, to
ting a- the amendments to the answer reported by
• fame the Seleft Committee. This has-brought
it Pro- tinder > consideration the affording some
1 them protection to the commerce of this country,
meftics en w"hich the wealth of every class of citi
; iiven zeni, as "well as the revenue of the Gover.i
---3 meet fc much depends. This' has reudeud
; N 1
neceflary. 111 our opinion, a fuithcr ftrerrgth
in some of our sea-ports, and an authority .
for calling out a provisional army f>r the
: defence of our country, if a change in our
fituation and circumstances (hould render it
necessary.
" Those gentlemen who believe that the
' special call of Congress Was unnecessary, and
e who fee no cai'.fe tor alarm in the prefeut
state of things, are opposed to all those mea
" fjires. and any others of the like kind.—
e Others, though they acknowledge our iitu
ation is and claims our serious
T attention, are ytt opposed to every measure'
' which, by any poflibility, may give offence
3 to France, and thereby endanger our peac?; .
even w Verc those measures are necessary to
J- our pwn protection. What will be tile final
result of this collision of opinions, it is iiti
" , pofjtible at this time to to determine.
"" | t' We are all, I believe, anxious to-return
3 f without doing fbmething for our country.
J | "I onferve Bache has published, under
| the Frederick-Town head, an extraft of a
" letter, said to have been written by a mem
°~ ber of Congress to a citizen of our town.
Whoever may be the author of this libel
, against the Executive and a part of Con
-11 grefs, I trust it will have' but little effe£t in
the quarter where it is addressed. It will
m require more argument than those gentle
men have yet offered, to persuade the people
' <lS of this country that those men who have
been, uniformly, supporters of government
and good order, are now laboring to involve
' their country in the horrors of war ; nor
-j£ will it be easy to convince Americans, that
to refitt the views and designs of France up
' £: on our interests and charafter, is to act un
der a British influence, or to court a con
£ neftion with thst nation. I have seen too
u " much of the pressure of one debt of grati
; tude to be willing to submit to another of
u \ j the fame kind. If we are united among
l' s ourselves, we (hall never be in want of for
,j i eien alliance. I deprecate foreign alliances
uld Us I do intrigue."
ei> j i i i „
uk l . NEW-YORK, July ix.
te • From the days "of Adam, to this moment t
no country was ever so infefted with corrupt
and wicked men, as the United States. Im
ported " patriots," bankrupt speculators,
l ors rich bankrupts, "patriotic" Atheists, and
llri- other similar characters, are spread over the
United States without, number, deceiving
thepeople with lies, gainingtheir confidence,
IQ d ; corrupting their principles, and debauching
'• their morals. We fee in out new Republic
tire decrepitude of Vice ; and a free govern
ment hastening to ruin, with a rapidity
without example.
Indeed if some check is not speedily put
upon corruption, the American name will
I thc become, infamous over the world. Nations
»inis observing thehigheft officers of our Covern.
, wc ment to betray their trusts ; Secretaries of
ilines State, members of Congress, PreTidents of
s and Banks, Colleftors of Customs, and Gqver
nors of States, abandoning their duty and
c their country, defrauding the puKic and
ips fj vilKfying their government; I fayforeigners
; and observing tbefe things will lose their relpeA
for thc American character, and on any oc
casion, when traitors are wanted, will know
where to apply for them. They will (jon
„ j f.der the Americans, efpetially those who
afTume the title of " Patriots," as political
Fred- projlitutes, who hang out ilgns of their infa-
Mr. mous traffic, and for some price or other,
f the are always teady for villainy,
rs of To a real friend of his country, what can
t thc be more humiliating than the discovery of
h ave bad men amongst thofecitizenswho have had
the public confidence ?
28. What can be more mortifying than to
igrefs fte Americans, who live under a free confli
iyj. tution and in a fine climate, where any man
how can get an honest and decent living, and <-
their ve T man ' las a chance for honorable
i, but preferment—to fee men in the£e circumftan
)n the ces, bought and fold by foreign nations ;
dent's the mean dirty tools of foreign .governments
F that while they wrangle with their own—aban-
II feri- 'ng the polls of a citizen to rally round the
"The standard of sedition—and as if uneasy in
Our peace and quietness, attempting with mad
tone . zeal, to throw their country into confufion ?
11 had Yet how many thousands of such men now
■s we live in thebofomof ourcounrry ! thousands
'ulting who enjoy public confidence, while they
re has merit.a halter !
TllTo BOSTON - July 6.
hope, The celebrations of the 4th of July have
e must b een splendid and dignifled ; and if they are
widely genuine effufions of the hearts of the ce-
lebrators, they must convince the European
impor- wor ld that is the fixed determination and ar
rv and dentwifhof really
France The answer of Mr. Monroe to an Ad
irerous dress presented to him, in this day's Centi
to our ne 'i proves the falfhood of the reiterated a--
his has fcrtions of the GaHo faftion, that the Gov
•alcha- eminent of the United States has been un
fe rr Cn - friendly to France—and has wished to dif
jbie e f. solve the political connection between the
uicable two republics.
:hmea- YORK (Penn.) July 12.
ivill in- Last Wednesday night was a season of
fpeft a- terror the inhabitants ot this place. Between
France the hours of twelve and one, a fire broke
reliance brokeout in the back buildings of John
lot owe Hay, Esq. adjoining his dwelling house.
11 earth, The fire communicated to thc dweUinghoufe
ourtefy. and the German Presbyterian Church, both
ed peo- of which were in a few minutes all in flames.
Govern- The fire r.dvartced with such terrible rapidi
tbe fe- ty, that all attempts to preserve those two
he con- buildings were soon found t6 be vairn From
ence in 15 to. 20 houlVs, arfiong which was the
(i, both Court House and Market House, were op
weight fire during the night ; all however, rxcept
ias pro- the two firft were by-the vigilarlce and adti
part, to vity of the citizens preferred,
rted by It appears that the fire originated by
brought means of an oven in Mr. Hay's back build
r some ings, in the wall of which was placed a poll
country, to support the (lied above ; the overt had
of citi- j beer, twice heated the preceding day,and it is
Govern- j probable that the 'Grf had £oi:nd acccfs to
rendered (the wooden poll in t!:-. wall.MARTINSBURG, (Virg.) July 6.
Monday morning la ft the body of John
was found dead, hanging by the
neck, in a cabin near Buckleftown—On ex
amination of his children (who are very
young) it appeared, that on Thui'fday morn
ing previous, differed with his wife
upon a trivial/ circumstance, having at the
time a pail* of sharp pointed sheers in his
hand, thrust them into her body under the
right arm, which put an end to her life—af
ter which he buried the body in the garden,
tortured, no doubt, with rcfledting on the
awful deed he had doue, committed an ad
ditional horrid aft by taking his own life—*
No discovery was made of the firft murder
until after his body was found, hanging, he
having before his exit, cautioned his children
to keep all secret, otherwile they would
fiiare the fame fate.
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, July ii.
J RUMOUR
Was current on Sunday, which, though
we could not trace to any authentic source,
and do not credit ourselves, yet as it is still
circulating without contradidtion, it may
be proper to state. It was, that a mutiny
had broken out at Gibraltar, on board the
Culloden, British 74, on the receipt of the
firft news of the difhirbance in his Majesty's
{hips in England ; that by the exertions of
the officers, assisted by Persons from the
shore, it was quelled, affi the (hip proceeded
to sea ; That at Sea, the mutiny broke out
afrefh with greater fury and more fuccefs—
that the captain was hung, and the lieute
nant, with threats of immediate execution,
obliged to condudt the ship to Brest.
A little more French Fraternity.
Yesterday arrived the (loop HopeftillJ
Captain Gibbs, from Barbadoes. On thj
19th ult. lat. 18, 44, long. 60, 10, Wi
Capt. Gibbs was brought too by a Frencfi
privateer schooner of 90 or'loo tons, undift-
English colonrs, she boarded him under Pol
tuguefe colours. After the examination <jf
papers, capt. Gibbs was ordered on
the privateer, and threatened with death irf
oase t>frefufal. He. was fhamefully abused,
kicked and beaten, While he was on board
the privateer, the«freebooters destroyed or
carried off every f&per beloaging to. the Su
percargo, and Mr. George W. Duncan,
3nd threatened the lives of all on board, if
they did not confefs the property to be Bri
tish, or objected to their condudt. They
took command of the decks with drawn
knives, daggers, axes, &c. They hauled
down the Sloop's colours, sent them on
board the privateer, said the sloop was a
prize, and that she would be in Porto Rico
before the next night. They then pro
ceeded to break open every chest, trunk,
&c. and went to plundering with drawn
daggers. From the Supercargo they took
45 gninea6, and nearly all his cloathing;
from the captain ibout 125 dollars, a box of
chocolate, and a trunkcontaining his cloath
ing, books and charts ; from Mr, George
W. Duncan, passenger, all his papers,
pocket book, and some cloathing ; and
from Mr. James Bird,, the mate, mod of
his cloathitig. They likewise carried off all
the cabin furniture, small flores, spare rig
ging, &c, and to complete their infamy,
stripped the seamen of their cloathing.—
The sea running very high prevented the
hatches being opened. The privateer af
terwards made fail with a black flag flying.
Extract of a letter from Captain J. Scott,
master of the brig John of this port, da
ted Morlaix, France, April 29.
"I was captured on Feb. 27, in fight
of Scilly, and sent in here. After fuffering
much unkind treatment, I was, by the in
terposition of our vice-consul, and captain
Barr, of Salem, (to whom I am much o
bliged) freed from confinement March 4.
"On the 4th inft. my vessel and cargo
were condemned, as lawful prize, agreea
bly to an arret of this Government, of the
14th Ventofe : The roll d'Equipage ((hip
ping paper) not being signed and sealed by
some public officer in America.
" I am informed that the Antelope of
Boston; Hope, of Baltimore, at L'Orient;
the Leonard of Newburryport at Brest;
and the D. of New-York, at this place,
ace in the same-situation with myfelf. The
' Sally of Alexandria from Rotterdam, was
sent in herelaft evening,and will doubtless
share the fame fate.
" I have merely saved the cloaths I had
on, and a few guineas.
By advice of the American Consul I have
appealed to the Tribunal of the Depart
ment; but have little hopes of redress, as
the Decree against the Antelope was con
firmed in this Tribunal.
" If they" continue to capture all vessels
lacking the documents alluded to—our
Commerce will be much distressed. I
thought before I left Boston, I had fur
nifhed myfelf with every necessary paper.
" The Privateers on cruize had dispatches
sent to them on the very day of mycondemn
ation, and I expect French ports will be
filled with American prizes."
Extradt of a letter from the master of the
fch. Betsey of this port, from Norfolk
for St. Barts. dated St. Barts. June 16.
" I would wijh to inform you that I was
captured by the French the 4th June, and
carried into Baffeterfe in Guadaloupe. I
arrived there 6th June. I was robbed of all
my Fowls, Hogs, Cheese, Hats, Shoes,
Cloaths, Hams, Drafts, Books, and every
thing comeatable ; but the worst of all
they took Mr. Bellows, Mr. Gay and Frar k
on board the privateer. I had my tryal and
was cleared, and got permiflion to go to St.
Barts. My people did not come in, and I
have got other persons.
" My port charges were 100 dolls, at
Guadaloupe, after being robbed of every
thing, and being detained there 8 dav3.
Orn. M'Lase, thi pffuiucs R;.'ilmi.)oift,
is nidified at Qnebtc, a»d w.ts to. be uicd 011
tSe 24th of Jnjie. Whz<i, as evidence was
fining ag-mll him* it is pioUable lie was ctfn
vidted ;ai;d perhaps ere,this he is exeebted ;
an J thus may it sari with every one who ih er
feres with the local concerns- of other coun
tries'than his own. Lei the fftvereign people
of every country detciijwre for thetnfelves
when it is necefFHry to change or oppose tljeir
own Government.
On Saturday arrived fron Charleston, ship
Britannia, Beai-s, 3 tnereh-int vet Tel, mail fir
, jug 4 guns. She faljuted the Calile and town.
She faile 1 from the U S. without means of
defence ;but when in Jamaica, (from whence
(he lately retnrne I) the extreme danger of
capture being evident, she w..s armed ; and
has convoyed 5 or 6 fail of American vessels
to a plqce qf fafety.
The rik>ht of individual* to protect their
property, ci.hec on sea or on (hore, we believe
it is generally conceded ; but the government
apprehending some offrnfive adt from the paf
fiona of individuals wh» may have be-ri ii jured
by some of ihe belligerent powers, has thought
proper to interdifl the faili ig of armej
merchant vessels. right to arm exiltend
as completely a few vests since as now. The
fame prudential motives produced the measures
of government at that time. The Jacobins
raved at the infringement of 1 heir Rights, as
..they termed them. They infilled upon the
privilege of going further than merely putting
a few cannon on boafd a merchantman for
defence—They wished to equip vcflVl ; for the
sole purpose 01 adting offerfively—For captur
ing British vessels. And the English, it was
at the fame time decUied, would nor, dared
net, and OUGHT not, rcfent the Proceed
'BSv
■r k _ ,
/ FroXtbc COLUMBIAN CENTINe\. ,
At a meeting of the American Academy
of Arts and Sciences, May 30th, 179^ —
voted that Dodtor Warren's Medical ftbft r
vations on the bilious remittent fever 'us
1796, be published in some of the newfpk
pers. A true extradt from the records.
Benj. Dearborn, Rec. Sec.
In consequence of the above vote, the fol
lowing valuable communicatiorf is now'
presented to the public. 4
Mr. ELIPHALET PEARSON,
Corresponding Secretary of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences.
SIR,
IN the month of December last, I com
municated to the public, a number of fadts
relative to the fever which prevailed the last
autumn in the town of Boston, calculated to
counteradt the effedts of publications m the
city of Philadelphia, in which the opinions
of the physicians on the nature of the dis
ease, and the method of pradtice, were gross
ly misrepresented.
My principal objeft in what was then of
fered was, to establish the following
fitions :
I,ft. That the physicians of the town
were unequivocally of opinion, that the fever
originated from local causes.
2dly. That in the treatment of the jdif
eafe, the stimulant plan had not been adopt
ed in any stage of its existence.
3<lly. That the depleting fyftera in ge
neral, had been used from the beginning.—
But,
4thly. That bleeding in particular, was
by no means generally pradtifed ; and that
there were strong rcafons for belieYing, in
opposition to what had been asserted in the
publications referred to, that where it had
been used, the effedts had been unfavorable.
I had then prepared, as an elucidation of
the above, the following history, which may
perhaps suggest some motives for a greater
degree of caution in adopting a rigid ad
herence to system in medical praftrce ; and
furniffi the means of comparing this with
other which have proved epidemic in
variou* parts of the United States.—And
I now submit it (as I judged it a more pro
per mode of communication on a profeflional
fubjedt) to the candor of this Academy.
Tjie firft appearance of the difeafc, was
on the 25th of August 1796, in a family
at the south-easterly part of the'town of
Boston, near a considerable extent of flats,
wliicV are daily exposed for some hours to
the adtion of the fun.
A lady of this family was the firft' vidtim
of the disease. She was seized with rigor,
a general distress throughout the whole sys
tem, with a white and moist tongue, dry
skin, frequent and weak pulse ; but without
any very until the third
day, when the pains which now became
more severe, with laborious respiration, a
flight redness of the eyes, a sleepiness, and
insensibility, followed at night by a sudden
finking, and intermiflion of the pulse, an
nounced the extreme hazard of her situation.
Adtive cathartics were prefcribid in the
beginning, and a blister was applied over the
whole anterior part of the thorax, but 110
benefit was derived from either, and she died
at the end of the fourth' day.
The next person attacked was a female
of the fame family, . She was taken sick
within twelve hours of the firft, with pains
in the head back and lower extremities ; a
vomiting, which continued incessant thro'
every stage of her illness, great opprefiion at
the breast, a weak and quick pulse, moist
Ikin and yellow tongue. Opium, and calo
mel, with other purgative medicines, were
administered, without having been a mo
ment retained in the stomach : Her pulse
became intermittent on the third day ; and
on the fourth, a fatal termination ensued.
Neither of.thefe patients. had any yellow
ness of the skin in the course oPthejjfickriefs;
there were no re?fons to believe they had
ever been exposed to contagion—and they
both imputed their illness to their having
fit at an easterly window in the evening air,
when heated with exercise.
Oil the 2d of September a son-in-law of
the above-mentioned lady, was seized with a
fever of the fame kind ; and within three
days from that time, hjs wife, and her two
brothers, all of bad been closely at
tendant on:t,b<ir. 4eq6afed. mother-.. .3T»ee
of these Yjrtre treated with -large ami repeat
ed doles of jalap and caloriiel; two of the
three took empties i one of them was bathed
with cold water, dashed over the whole bo
dy on the third day from the attack, aiid
been kept cool they all recovered.
The fourth was in a fituatiou peculiarly un
favorable when attacked j fl.e took such
doses of jalap atld calomel, as were thought
best adapted to her state ; and on the fourth
day fte died.
I would here remark, that in two of these
cases the symptoms were frorti the firlt, more
mild than in those which proved fatal—that
they were deilitute of some of the alarming
symptoms with which the others were at
tended—had no inflammation of the eyes,
1 nor difficulty of refplration, bht a thicker
fur upon the tongoe, wincii.-wa* of a dark
colour towards the height of tlit disorder ;
, with more dillinft pains of the head, back
and limbs, with exacerbations at night ; and
ran on until the eleventh day, before any re
markable 'hange in the symptoms ; after
j which, tne'recovery was flow, as in a com
j mon typhus, and was not completed until
1 the fourth week.
The next porfon whom I visited with the
disorder, lived at Oliver's Dock ; and within
two 'or three days from this time, I \vas
called to five others at the south part of the
town, and one in the neighbourhood of the
firft-mentioned family.
Between this and the lßth of September,
when I was called to Mr. Newell, the per
son whoft situation excited so.much appre
hcnfion in the town, I had visited about a
dozen others, with somewhat similar com
plaints, but very different in the degree of
violence with which they were attended. In
the former, the flcin on about the fourth day.
became yellow ; on the sixth petechias were
dilcovered over all parts of the body ; and a
most obstinate dysentery, followied by col
liquative diarrha*a. proved fatal ou the Bth.
In many of tlte kittcr, after flight rigors, and
obtuse pain in the for the firft twenty
four hours, togfcther with a sense of heat or
burning at the ftomadi—ahaemorrhage from
the nose often took place, and continued to
be a troublesome circumltance for several
days, without any remarkable mitigation.of
the symptoms. In these, spontaneous vom
itings rarely occurred—but when they did,
large quantities of bile were thrown up from
the stomach, and emetics, or cathartics, in
variably produced the fame effect. The
pulse was generally small and irregular—the
tongue coated with a faburra of a yellowish
cast ; and the excretions from the kidnies,
were often turbid dnring the augmentation
of the disease, highly tinged with bile, and
fometimcs depositing a copious fediineat, be
fore any thing like a crisis had been discover
ed in the patient.
The crises w<re seldom very sensible or
perfedt; and when present, were commonly
most conspicuous in the excretions of the
fkfli, and the above was the usual form in
which the disease afterwards continued to
appear, with now and then an instance, in
which it approached more nearly to that in
which it Commenced.
■ Intheiirft flagc, emetics were fometimcs
strongly indicated from the incefTant nausea,
which prevented any medicine from resting
on the stomach—but, generally, a dose of
from 20 to 30 grains.of jalap, with from id
to 15 grains of calomel, even under this cir
cumstance, often answered a better purpose
by difeharging very copiously a bilious mat
ter from the stomach, as well as intestines ;
and by frequent repetition, effected the
cure. , Antimonials were sometimes given
between the dofes—bhfters'were o.ccafionally
applied—the drinks were principally acid ;
and wine was forbidden.
The disease, however, unless conquered
by a very early exhibition of this medicine,
often ran on to about the lith day, and
sometimes to the end of the third w-eek ;
and in no instance, after the fafe of Mr.
Newell, did it prove fatal within that pe
riod.
In the three patients whom I visited, the
r cold bath was used in the hottest stage of
the fever, to very great advantage. In two
Cases only, what is called the black vomit,
took place: From the beginning of Sep
tember, the fever was slowly increasing ;
and I find that the number of patients, at
any one time under my care, was greatest in
the firft week of Oftober ; from vvhieh time
it gradually declined, until about the middle
of December, when I believe,it had altoge
ther disappeared.
A very great proportion of those taken
sick, were situated near extensive flats, par
ticularly about the easterly, southerly and
westerly skirts of the town. The place
called Oliver's Dock, where the disease was
mOll prevalent, was exposed to exhalations
from foul substances, lodged about the
wharves and docks of that quarter, with
buildings so construCted, as to admit of but
very iniperfeil ventilation, and with large
numbers of inhabitants crouded together ire'
afmallfpace. \
When the disease firft made its appear
ance, the weather was warm ; in about the
middle of September, it became cool—
, plentiful rains having previously fallen ; and
as the cool wfcath<?f advanced, its violente
and mortality Were gradually diininifhed.*
In most families where one person had
been fi'ck, others were soon taken down with,
the disorder ; in some, allmoft every adult
person became ill } the" children generally
escaping. I knew of no instance of any
black person being infefted.
The disease, as far as I
was, as often-contraded from
it lightly, as .from those who had it in a
more dangerous djegree. In ftverffl families
where one had died, no other person had
received any infection ; in otheis, one
had it lightly, and .several others £on.trafted
■•it from him, some of then> in the milder
form, and some in the moreft'vere.
-■* Herein it ftcfirs -to difii-r.. frotji w! at I'zs-fce'etr
remarked with rj&pft toly'phws: iclj MrSitefi '
. found to uiereaf® < 00l wcather'at'vcnicd,
The mortality of die disease, was by £.O
means great ; of" fifty-two persons whom I
attended, nine died ; two of these in eonfe
quence of circumftanees foreign frr m the
disease ; of the number, two were children,
five were womej and two were men.
Prom the best information I can obtain,
not ?bove thirty persons died of it in the
whole season ; several persons were buried
in the night, and this having excited a great
degree alarm in the country, served as a
foundation for the moll exaggerated ac
counts. of the mortality with which it was
attended.
The town was remarkably free frorti
other disorders,. through the whole of the
autumn ; no dysenteries prevailed in it, and
few of the usual diseases of Children.
Whether there is any essential difference
between the fevers denominated bilious, or
whether they vary only in degree, according
to circumftanees under which they are pro
duced, I (hall not presume to decide.
Dr. John Hunter seems to have held the
latter opinion, and it is not improbable,
that the fame disease may have its symptoms
and periods, so much under the influence of
exterior causes, as at times, to bear foine of
the appearances of one belonging to a dif
ferent alafs of disorders: However this
may be, there seems clearly to be a great dif
ference in degree at least, between that
which-has been above described, and the
Philadelphia fever of 1793. Having al
most every fall, seen a considerable number
of cases very similar to the above, not ex
cepting the black Vomit, nor the yellow
Ann, together with the quality of contagion
and other circumftanees usually attendant
on fevers of this denomination, I have becti
induced to believe, that the disorder in ques
tion, was no other than what has more or
leis prevailed, here almost every year, and is
what is properly termed, a bilious remittent
fefer.
That it originated from noxious substan
ces, exhaled igto the atmosphere from putri
fying vegetable or animal matter, or both,'
is extremely probable from the places in
which it was most prevalent, (-(■) and that
a confined situation, filthy ftateof the streets v ,
alleys and bye places of the town will, as it
becomes more populous, rents higher, and
consequently the poorer part of the inhabi
tants more closely crouded together, fur
ther expose us to the danger of such disea
ses, is a serious truth, which may perhaps
in some future day, be too fatally evinced.
And it may not be improper here to remark,
what is too seldom attended to,i that no
thing can contribute so much to individual
preservation, as personal cleanliness. and by
frequent bathing, Amoving impurities from
the flcin, and promoting a free perfpii^tion.
In cafe of aftual infection, thefickfhould
invariably be feparatfd from the well ; —the
rooms cleansed and the cloaths washed or
destroyed. J
The success of Dr. Rufh's-prefcription of
the jalap and calomel, might perhaps be
considered,' as a proof of the affinity of this
fever to that of Philadelphia ; but if the suc
cess of the latter mediqine, in the malignant
fpecjes of throat distemper, has been estab
lished, as has been affirmedy ic will appear
the less extraordinary, that it should suc
ceed in this disease, even on the supposition
of its being of a putrid nature. "
If in the common bilious remittent fever
it appears that the use of a&ive cathartics,
and particularly large doses of jalap and ca
lomel, produce the most salutary effects, it
'.vill be an additional fatisfaftion to that
benevolent man, to find a part of his treat
ment of the yellow fever, extended to dis
eases, in which' he had not perhaps contem
plated its efficacy,
JOHN WARREN.
■f It has been generally thought that c.oi f inual
fevers are the offspring, only, of human, effluvia.
at)d intermittent, .of marfll mi&fmata ; yet there is
iufficient realbn, from fomerecent instances of those
difcifrs, for believing, that this limitation decs by
no means generally prevail.
Animal fubltances of which many are to be
found in thrfe places, intermixed with vegetable,
are said to purify when exposed to the fun, more
quickly after having been covered with fait, than
with frtfh water.
i Df. J. C. Smith, in aVeport to thel.erds Com
tr iflientrs of the Admiralty of Great-Britain, the
lad year, endeavor! to efiabliih, oif'the founda
tion of experiment, the advantage of fumigation
with the vitriolic and nitrous acids, for cleansing
infetfed cloathes, and buildings. Heprepared.au
earthen vcffel containing sand heated in an iron
pot, and having placed in it a tea cup with half an
ounce of highly concentrated vitriolic acid, after it
hail acquired a proper degree of heat, poured in'o
it gradually, an equal quantity of n : tre in powder ;
this was liirred with a glass spatula, and,carried
throagh the wirdJ of the It at firft excited a
flight cough, amopg the patients, \yhich soon luMi -
ded, and the air was in an aftonilhing degree fwee
tened.bythe proofs. He cautio'ni against using
meta!idPveffels, as the fumes might in that cafe
prove injurious.
Dr. Trotter, in hi# Medicina Nautica, a very
late publication, scruples the elntacy of this me
thod i but there is reason to hope it may prove a
valuable eilfccvery. *
\t i* to be remarked, that all clothing of animal,
matter, such as woolen, and silk, being more fub
jedt to decomposition, is one of the mail dangerous
sources of infc&ion ; ond, therefore, the utmoll
care is required in purifying them.
LOTTERT AND BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 fQUth Second flreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commensid drawing the 29th May, 1 FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion ns the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the la ft of
drawing. ' ' ,
Check Books kept for cxamitration 2nd register
ing, in the 2, City of'Walhingtou, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries. '• 1
' k Alfo, ticket# forfait in the Schuylkul fridge and
Perk c.m«n Bridge lotteries, niiich will
draWifjg.m thepourfeof the fumrper.
Qr'he bufi»ei~s of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lzincte,. &t- See. tranfa«£ed with the
a^tentiot.
. f-»ne, 2' tu&f
ib hbds. ef~ hew Lngiand Kum,
FOR 1 SALE bv
S-amucl Breck,jun.
• .< Ni- ij,-SoutH 'i'liird flreet.
Tulv Mi «c<t
■ •'* •,
• ••
Ju'v
on Independence,
On this fam'd day, the brightefl n'fthe yar,
■Ut jy.l rtffeflio# every patriot*h?er.-V
With prtde, AmerjiirtitKfe w&r retries,
Nor-fijid their triumphs mingled with' difcrice.
N® tears for "IN DEPENDENCE virtue ft I,
find in a civil war, foes only bled.
Of *l4 in ancient cr iri modern times,
Our rtvolu'lan paiVd least foul with crimes.
How mild in charafter ' its end how.-great,
1 o budd oil laws ihebalis-ofa flat£ :
Mankind our .triumphs join, as they
f arukf th exr.mple and ei.jay the day.
Five pail,'ion liulV.NiiiiueiT will guard the puz-j
( llian France or England dearer to their eyes)
Until a million mob shall throng one t.pyyn,
And, frenzy led, tear independence duvn.
HASHING TON l-OTTFJir, tie. 11.
List of Phizes and Blanks.
106 th day's Drawing—July 8.
No, Dais. Ac. Dois. £«. Doh. No, Doll.
*377 157*6 10 28747 39979
»150 IO 16.5 C OJO
461 t;; 5 ISrJ ssl
504 10 yoi I 0 327 Soi
564 726 4115"
93} 10 653 10 3iio» 703
3°6l 411 42335
28110 BSOIO 4jo 357 io
597 io' 18:46 973 <Sjj|
670 I9OU 32075 '?S44I so
4i8 4 10 JO) ibo-rlo 471
2 37 698 417 6g 4
* cß 4 704 4?# 809
6143 13 755 6.Vt fS: 7
49 7 »c»3: 887 545 10
952 33222 44100
8667 "647 34013 uq
2 77 23309 ro 403 434
9.51 3!2> 4;o 488
9°87 524 629 10 578 10
298 24*7? ia 35685-10 960
354 25333 i<? Iff 10 45153
567 10 70S 36:75 u 6»j
7 i( >' 835 sir" 989 io
*43 9 ! 9. 37694 46474 10
955 9.15 10 083 501 10
10641 46051 380145 47284 I'O
384 10 '53 500 10
12734 10 673 10 557 792 20
7S° 27167 599 48477 io
032 295 10 39180 98a
421 302 4922* 10
1401 3 .'537 408 840
313 10 793 617 40 . 892 10
400 28236 10 710 951
664 'lO 376 725
15398 636 10 945
lo7tli Day's Drawing—July jo.
599 10 13775 249 06 38081 10
2031 893 26299 114 2P
588 10 14296 353
777 5'J6 677 492
3230 574 9! 4 i 0
578 15050 27884 745 10
4007 io» y 77 937
"33 123 29338 40112
J716 10 27* 10 348 10 225
6014 18 16050 10 617 10 632 to
'23
,320 10 843 326 10 J36
7789 17085 31469 42922
8125 jo 18*03 986 . 43630 25
406 326 10 32653 633
9389 552 34292 xo 44589
585 10 795 35 X 74 45301 10
806 904 47» 46221 1a
989 19 J 5° 36406 10 429
11440 684 557 47338 10
787 20042 ?4i 94 6 IO
12599 10 517
13251 20 21519 185 423
309 23998 186 49465
.573 24374 552 io 764 19
250 Barrels
ConneSicnt Herrings, aud 250 larrels of Beef,
lor Sale on board the fchooher Prudence.Crook
ed Billet Wharf—or bv
EZEKIEL HALL,
Jones's Wharf,
J u 'y : 3t__
Curious & Elegant Representations
Of A GREAT VARIETY of BIRDS,
In whict', their real plomage is preferred,and
■which tre fold as cheao as common p i.its by
JOHN ORMROD, 1
Mo. 41, ChefnutStreet
July 15- 3t.
Lailson's Circus.
On TUESDAY next, July 18th.
FOR THE BENEFIT OF
Mr. COLLET,
LEADER OF THE BAND,
WHO refpe£}fully aflares the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Phi adelyhia and its environs,
that his ultimate wish, fmce'hii refideacc in this ci
ty, v. A cvnr to merit their count: riarce and pro
teilion, the continuance *f which,on all occaficns,
will be remembered with grateful sensibility.
The Equestrian Exhibition
Will open the performance of che evening, by the
introduction of GRAND PARADE ot Eques
trian Performers of both sexes.
Masterly feats df Horsemanship„
By Mr Lai Ton and his pupils, with the whimsical
feats.of Mr Su'ly, in the chara&erof dozen.
Still Vaulting,
By Mefirs. Stilly and I.aillon, wherein Mr.'Lailfon
will perform several furprifiqg feats as exhibited
at the French military school on the wooden
horse ; such as jumping over the horse as he
flands lengthways.
Mr. Lai.'fon will introduce his favorite horse on the
PEDESTAL, in a pidlurcfque aitiiude, his
horse Handing on three legs.
By desire, will he per f nrmcd, the aflr-nilhing leaj
thiough tjje HOGSHEAD, by a horse and hi- ,
ridir on his back : with other Cquftrian Feats
not pjirticularized in the bili's.
For that only,
A COMBAT ON HORSEBACK,
With Broad-Swords and Piftok, (never befare
prefentcd in America) by Messrs. Collet anl
I.ailfon in which Mr. Laiifon will introduce
the much admired manoeuvre »£ the
H O U L A N.
Lofty Tumbling,
By McSCrs. Sully, Reano.and WV:onald ; particu
larly Mr. Sully, in th» ait ion ot turning in the
air eight feet high, -will expand an Umbkelia..
. The whole te coHcue'e (being the feaondr presen
tation here) with the favorite and much admir
ed fiiftorical and Hercical Pantcmime of
MIR. Z A £sf LINDOR;
Or, Tne Flrfl Adventurers in America.
I icketst'"* be had at ths usual place,, and of
Mr. Collet, at his Coffec-houfe, at ths ccrn .r of ihz
Circuc.
To Let,
THE BUILDING now occupied by the Bank
of the United States. For terms en
quire of Edward Garrigues, No 39, Cherry-ftrett.
N. B. Also a large, convenient Cellar in a g»od
Ctuation: Ap; 'y as r.bvvc.
June j5 tats
ta&fPropoTaiS j
fi&r carrying M A /L S of the 2t l \
United States on the following
Pojl Roads, 'will be received b/i
at the General PoJl-OJfice, in 6
Philadelphia, until the yjl
rfav of July next, i/iclujive. i
arr '
MAINE. day
t. From Brewer's or Scoodi-. by Macfcks. Chan- «T
filer's river and Columbia, to Kai-raguagus once a qg
Week. • ( fl
Leave Brewer's every Saturday at i 1 IVT, and
arrive at Nariaguagus the next Tuesday at 6p. ■
m—Returning, leave Narraguay.us every Wednef
<lay at 6a m, ind arrive at Brewer's the next Sa- «•
tutday by Io a M.
2. From Narraguiju'sby Suili- -
van, Trenton, Bluehill, Outline, Penobfcot, Btickf at
ton, Frankfort, Profpecl and Belfaft to Duck- ««
Trap once a week. _
Leave evrty Wednesday by 6 a
u, and arrive at- Duck Trap the nest Saturday by IO
to AM. Returning. Leave Duck Trap every Sa- ,
tutday by uu and arrive at NamgUagus the , m
next Tuesday by 6 p M. 1
t,. From by Camden, Thomafton, an
Warren. Wa'doborough, Newcalle, WifcaC't, "<?
V jt n, fcunfvvick, Fretport and North Yarmout, an
to Portland once a week.
Leave Duet Trap every Saturday by 4 r M s and an.
arrive at Portland the next Tuesday by 6 P M. R<-
Urnin*. l eave Portl.nd every Wedntfday by 6 Jl%
A m aud arrive atDuck i'rap the next Saturday by jt
a ft ar!
4. From Portland by Biddeford, Welles and
Vork.to Portfmsuth. u
April 15 to Oilier i? Leave Portland every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at PortfmAuth the fame days by 6p M. Return- ar
ug. Leave Portsmouth every Mocdiy, Wednes
day and Friday at 9 pm, and arrive at Portland on *r
the next day by 6. r m.
OiW 15 to April 15. Leave Portland every R
Monday and Thurl'day at 6 a m, and arrive at
Portsmouth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 a m . -Re-1 M
turning. Leave Portfraeuith every Tuesday and T
Friday at 1 pm, and arrive at Portland every f 0
Wednesday and Saturday at 5 p M ■ e ,
j. From Portland by North-Yarmouth, Free- aI
r.srt, Brunfwick, Bath, Wifcaffet, Dresden, Piltf- g
ton asd Hallowell Hook to. Hallowell court house, j
once a week. ri
Leave Portland every Friday at BA. M,and ar- tfc
rive at Hallowell court-house the next Saturday by i
7 PM. Returning. Leave Hallowell court.-house
every Wednefdty by 5 A M, and arrive at Port- a .
land on Thursday by 6P M. • 1
6. From Wifcaffet by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo
well Hook, Hallowell court-honfe, Wirthrop,
Monmouth, Or eon, New-Gloucester and Gray to £
Portland once a week ' -
Leave Portland evsry Monday by 6 A M, and
Strive at Wifcaffet on Wednesday noon. Return
i„,r. Leave Wifcaffet on Wednesday at 3P M, and
arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M. ,
7 . From Hallowell Hock by Vaffalborongh,
Fort ILlifax, Winflow, Fairfield and Canaan to
N"rridgewok once a week. ,
Leave Hallowell Hook every WedneKfy at 11 J
A M., anu arrive at NOl ridgewock on 'I hurlday
by 6 M. Returning. Leave Norridgeweck on.
Monday at 1P M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook -
on Tutfday by 6 PM.
g Viom Hallowell Hook to Farmington on San- s
<iy river once in two weeks. 1
L ave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8A M, and arrive at Farmington by 6 PM. I
Returning. Leave Farmington every other Thurf- '
day at SAM, and arrive at Hallowell Hodk.by 6 I
V M. , _
9. Frotn Portland by Falmouth, Gorham,
ton. Standilh, Limerick, Parfoufield, Shapleigh 1
iiid Lebanon to Berwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland overy other Monday at 8 A M,
and arrive at Berwick on Wednesday by coon.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at 1 P
M, amlarriveat Portland on Friday by 6P M.
to. From Standilh by Flinftown. Fryburg aca
demy, Conway and Tamworth to Sandwich in New
Hampfhirc once in two wceke.
Leave Standilh every other Tunfday ky 8 A M,
and arrive at Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning. Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 AM, and arrive at Standifh on Friday by 6
P M.
u. From Wells by Waterboro', Sanford, Dough
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portsmouth onee
a week.
LcaveWells everyTu fJpv by 6A M, and ar
rive at Portsmouth on Wednesday by IC A M. Re
turning. Portfmouth every Wednesday by
jPM, and arrive at Wells next Tliurfday by 6
PM.
NEW-114 MPS HIRE.
11. From Portsmouth by Dover, Rochester and
Moultonborough to Plymouth, returning by New-
Hamptpp, Meredith, GiJmjntown, Nottingham
iad Durham to Psrtfmoufh once in two weeks.
Leave Portsmouth every other Wednesday by 8
A M, and arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6
P M Returning. Receive the mail at Plymouth
evcy ether Saturday by 8 A M, and return to
Porrtfmouth the nfxt TuSfday by 4 PM.
Note. " The poftls to go aud return on this route
alternately.''
13- From Portsmouth by Exeter, Chetter, Lon
donderry, Amherft, Peterborough and Marlbo
rc ugh to Keene, once a week.
, Leave Portsmouth every Thursday by JA M,
arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Chufter by 6 P M,
and at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M Returning.
Leave Keene every Monday by 8 A M, ajrive at
Chcfter 011 Tuesday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nesday by 9 A M, andat Portsmouth by 4 P M
14. From Concord by Plymouth to Haverhill,
once a week.
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at Plymouth on Tueitlay by 3 P M,and at Haver
hill on Wednesday by 4 PM. Returning. Leave
Haverhill every Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at
Plymouth on Friday by 9 A M, andat Concord en
Saturday by 4 P'M.
15. From Exeter t» Hampton Falls, three times
a week from April 15 to October J5, and twice a
week from O&ober 15 to April 15.
I.eave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv
al after the arrival of the mail from Boflon, and
deliver it at Exeter in two hours, remain at Exet«r
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hours from thatime of leaving it.
Massachusetts.
16. From Newburyport, Haverhill, Kingflon,
Exeter, New Market and Durham to Dover once
I.eave Newburypert every Monday by 10 A M,
arrive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. Refnrn
iflfr. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 P M, and
arrive at New'ouryporton Friday by 3 P M.
17. From Salem to Gleueeftev once a week.
] eave Uloucefter every Wednesday by 7 A M,
and arrive at Salem by 11 AM. Returning. Leave
Salem every Wcdneldsy by 1 P M, and arrive at
Glouceder by 6 P M. .
Note, should this mail be carried in » flage it Is
to be carried a? often as the flage runs, the hours
desired to be stated in the proposals.
18. From Salem to Marb)ehead three times a
week I.eave Salem every Monday, W/dneflny,
and Friday immediately after tl)e rrrival of the
mail from Boflon, and deliver it at Marblehead in
one hour and an half, leave Marbkhead in one
hour and a half and return to salem in two hours.
p rom BoP.cn, by Andover, Haverhill and
Mi CosKcrd in tfew Hatttpfl&e once a . Non
week. . I atS;l
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M,arrive 3«
at Chciler by a I''M, and aivive at IJjilan on
Tuesday by 4P M. Returniiipr- Leave Bolton ev- L
ery Friday by 9 AM, arrive at. Cheder on Saturday « 1-1
by 11 A M, and arrive at Coii'.ordon Saturday by
6 PM 6 p
From Boft-in by Concord, Lancaster, Leo
min'ler and AtV.burnham to Marlliorough, Keene
and W'alptfjrfin New Hamplhii-e.
Leave ieominilcr every Thursday by 6A M, 3
arrive at Keene by gP M, and at WalpoJ# Aa I'fi- wr(
day by 10 AM- Returning, ieave Walpoleev
cry Saturday or Saaday by J A M, arrive a Keene
M, and at icominilef in the evening.
/.eavc £eontinller every Monday and Jhurfdayby f
-6 A M, ind arrive at Boston by 6 P M. p
jr. From Eofton by Qsincy, Wingham, Hano- 3
ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, Barnftable, Yarmeuch, i
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Truro onee a at
week. il
Lnave Boston every Tburfday by 3P m, arrive nve
at Sandwich »b Friday by 6 p m,and at Truro the 3
next Sunday by 6a m. Returning, ieave Truro bus
every Morvlav by 8a m, arrive at Sdudw.ch on I
Tuifuay by 7 rm, and at Button onThurfdaj by arn
11. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes Bu ]
Hole to E''garton once a weeek- La^
1 I .eave Sandwich every Saturday by 1r m, and j
arrive atEdgarton on Monday by 11 am. Return
ing. Leave Edgarton mi Monday by 4 P m, and
' arrive at Sandwich op Tuesday by noon- arr
43. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
and Taunton to Newport once a week. da;
Leave Boston every Monday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Newport by '6 p m, on Tuesday.
Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 a m, and
i arrive at Boston on I hurfday by 6 p m. N<
24. Frum Boston by Charleston, Medford, Wo
burn, Billerica, Chelmsford and Tyngboroegh to Fr
. Amherft once a week. da
Leave Boston every Thursday by 10 a m, an. U
. arrive at Amherft the next S«turd»y noon. Re- "v
. turning. Leave .imherft every Monday noon, and
1 arrive at Boston on Wednesday by 3 p m.
I if- From Boston by Randolph, Bridgewatef,
' Raynham and Taunton to New Bedford. ar
( ; From May Ito November 1. Leave Boston every \v
Monday, wednesday and Friday atio pm, arrive at xi
' Taunton the next, day by 11 am, and at New Bed- d'
' ford by 8 r m. Returning. Leave New Bedford Fi
even Sunday, Tuesday and Thu'fday by 10 p m, m
arrive atTiunton the next dsy by 11 a m, and at
" Boston by 8p m •
'■: From November Ito May t. I.eave Eofton <?ve •
I ry wednesday and Friday at 9a m, arrive at Taun- Qi
" 1 ten by 8p m, at New Bedford on Thurflay & j
y Saturday by J r u. Returning, Leave New ; rj
5 | Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 « M. w
" arrive at Taunton by 8 r m, and at Boston on b
Tuesday and Thursday by 7 PM.
46. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a ; 11
J week from November Ito May I. I.eave New 1
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
d rjvc at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Ninti.c-
ketevtry Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and
r | arrive at New Bedford in the evening. 1 5
From May Ito November 1. I.eave New Bed- ;
[j ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10 a
to ' a m, and arrive at Nintudfcet in the evening. Re- 1
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tue day,Thurf- a
„ day and Saturday at 8 a m, and arrive at New Bed- ;
ford in the evening., wind* and tide permitting. 1 f
in. 47, From Taunton by Dighton and S«nier£etto c
>k warren once a week. j
Leave Taunton every wednesday by 5a m, and ]
n- arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by I j
p ii, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r M,
>y »8. From Boston byDe(lham, Providence, Plain- j
H. field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing- (
■f- worth, Guilford and New Haven to New York (
6 t.'iree times a week.
xS - Prom nay tto November I. Leave Boston eve- '
jl, ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 10 a m, (
arrive at I'rovjdaiice by 6 p m, arrive at Norwich
on wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
' New London by 3 pm, arrive at New Haven on 1
p Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon.nt Star*
ford by 9 r m, andat New York on Friday, Mon.
day and wednesday by npon. Returning. Leave
; w New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday 1
by 10 A m', arrive at New Haven on wednesday,
M Friday and Monday by z p m, at Norwich «n
Thui fday, Saturday and Toefday by noon, at Pio
at vidence by 8p m, and at Boston on Friday, Mon
-5 day and wednesday by I» m.
November Ito May 1. Leave Boston every
[h- Tuefiay, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
lee rive at providence the next days by 9au, at New
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tuef
ar- day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
Re- and wednesday by 3pm, at Stratford by 8 ' «,
by and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
6 and Friday by 11 am. Returning. Leave New
Yoik every Saturday, Tuel'day and Thursday by II
a m, arrive at Stratford the next day»by 8 p m, at
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 9 a M, at New London on wednesday, Friday
ind and Monday by 3 p m, at providence, Thursday,
:w ' Saturday and Tuesday by 4'Hi at Boston on Fri.
am day, Monday and wednesday by 3m.
g 2 j. From Boston by Dedham, Mendon, romfret
y 6 and Tolland to Hartford once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 7 A M, arrive
t0 at Hartford &e next Saturday by 6r m. Return
ing. I.eave Hartford every Monday by 8 A M,
(Ute and arrive at Boston on wednesday by 5 rm.
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
on * week.
■bo- Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6a m,
and arrive at Newport by 4r «• Leave Newport
M, every Friday by 8a m, and arrive at New Bedfori
M, by.J pm.
3!. From Worcafter by Rutland, Peterfliam and
f Northfield to Erattleborough once a week.
Leave worcester every Tuesday by 1 r m. and
1, arrive at Brattleborough on wednesday by 6 pm.
' Returning. Leave Brattleborough cveryt Thurf
dav by 6 a m, and arrive at worcester on Friday
rive 1 1
noon.
34. From Breokfield by Belchertown, North
ave ampton, worthington.pittsfield and New Lebanon
, to Albany
*" Leave Brookfield every Tuesday and Friday by
9 a m, arrive at Northampton by Or m. Leave
me * Northampton every wednesday and Saturday at 5
:e a am, arrive at rittsfield by I P M, andat Albany
011 Thursday and Monday by 7 r m. Returniug
nv j Albany every wednesday and Saturday at j
a m, arrive at rittifield by 5 r m, at Northamp
et'r ton on Thursday and Monday by 7r M . and ar
rive at Brookfield on Friday and Tuesday by 4
V M.
33. From Springfield by Weflfield and Stock
bridge to once a week.
lon, May j to ' November 1. Leave Springfield eve
once ry Tuesday by 3p M, arrive at Kinderhook on
Thursday by 6 P M. Returning. Leave Kinder
1M > hook every Friday by 9 a m, arrive a< Stock
fnrn- (jfirfge fey 3p m. Leave Stockbridgc on Monday
and by 6 «m , and arrive at Springfield by 7 p M
November I to May I. Leave Springfield every
wednesday at 6 a m, and arrive atKinderhook on
M I hurfday, by 1p M- Returning. Leave Kinder
cave' hook on'fi.urfday by 4* M, arrive at Stoclsbridge
eat on Friday nocn Leave Stockbridge every Tues
day at 6 a M, and arrive at Springfield by 7 * M.-
ir Is jd, From Nuffield by WeftSpiinnfield.Northarnp
ours ton, Greenfield, Bratt'.eboicugh, Wefiminller, Wal
pole. Charleftown and Windfot 10 Hanover twice a
wei k.
es a Leave Suffitld every Tuesday and Frnlav at am,
d: y, r ,ive at N-jrtbamptonby »rm, at Walpeleon V. ed
the nefday and Saturrlav by 5r M. at Windsor on Mon
din day and Thursday by 2 rm, and at Hanovi*' by 7 r
one M Returning. Leave Hancvt r e%ery Tuesday and
rars. Friday bv 6 a m,arrive at Windfoi by Ipk, at Wal,'
and pole on Wcdcefday aud Saturday by 7p m, aird at
Northampton on Mdnday and Thcvrdaytjy nsoitjind and v
atSufiield by 7 P M.
35 From Hanover Oxford and Haverhill to
Nev/.bury o,ne a week. _ in tv
Leave Hanover every wednesday by 6 A M t arrive
at Haverhill by 4P M, aVid at Newbury by 5 PM. arriv
Returning. Ltaye Mewburv every Thursday by 6 A Roti
M, a nive at Haverhill by 8A M, and at Haver bill by at R
6PM b'
and
V, M NT. . L
36* from Wiridfor by Rvyalfton, Randolph, Will- ri e
iamfton and Montpeiier to Burlington once in two e 'f
weeks. an *
/.cave Windsor every other Thurfd-y bv 6 A M t "
and arrive at B iriing'on the ne\ t Saturday by 6 PM. ® nc «
leave every other Thursday f
by 6A M, and arrive at Windsor on Wednesday b; 6 * *
P M. , J A
37. From Windsor to Rutland onee'a week. day
Leave Rutland every Monday bv- 7 A M and arrive
at Windsor on Thursday by 6 PM. Returning. 6
Leave Windsor every \ycdnefday by 6A M, aiid ar- J *
live at Rutlaod on Tburtday hy 6 p M. '° r^
38. From Burllingtoh by Vergennes and Middle- L
bury to Rutland tonic a we6k. at °
Leave Burlington eveiy T.' urfciay by 8a m, and Lea
ajiiveat Rutland on Saturday by 6 pm. Returning. * r ®
Leave Rutland every Monday by 8a m. and arrive at °
Burlington on Wednesday noon. e _
oq, From Rutland by Manchester, Bennington, I
and Troy to Albany. rlv<
Leave Rutland every Monday at 8a m, and arrive Lea
at Albany the next Wednesday by 6p m. Return- Ne
ing. Leave Albany eveiy Thursday by 8a m, and 6
arrive at Bennington by 7p m. Leave tfennington to
on Friday by 8a m, and arrive at Rutland on Satur- 1
day by 7 p m-
RHd£iF-fSLA\'D. 1
40. From Providence by Brillol and Warren to
Newport. i
Leave Providence eveiy Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 7 a m, and arrive at Newport the fame
day»bv£ pM. Returning. Leave-Newport every . e
Tuesday. Thursday and Saturday by 8 am, and ar- I r v
rive at Providence iy 4 r «•
41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New- I
port, South Kingston, Westerly and Stoniqgtou Point I
to New London once a week. I w
Leave Providence every Tuesday bv 8 A w, and I
arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every I F'
Wednelday by 6 A m, and arrive at New London on I
Thursday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon- I 1
don on Thursday by 3 p m, and arrive at Newport on I
I Friday by 6p m, leave Newport ou Monday by 7 a I «
, m, and arrive at Piovidence by jp m. I'"
tl■ . I
CONNECTICUT. tu
42. From HaitfoWi by Windham to Norwich I
once a week, I 1
: I Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6a m, and ar. I
' rive ai Norwich by yr M Returning. Leave Nor- p
wtcb every Monday by € a M, and arrive at Hartford I [_
II by J1 M, . lai
43 From Hartford by Middletown, Modul Land
inp and Cplchefter to New-London, once a week. I r <
j l eave Hartford every Tuesday at 1p m, and arrive w
" at New London on Wednesday by 7p m. Return- I
" 1 ing. Leave Ne* London every Thursday by it a I 3
J I m, andarrive at Hartford on Friday by 7 p m. I p
d 44. Ftcim Hartford bv New Hartlord, Canaan, I a
I Sheffield and Hillfdalc t» Hudson onee a week
'■ i Leave Hartford evc.y Monday at ap m, and arriv* I a
0 ! at Hudson on Wednesday by 1 t am. Returning, j
Leave Hudson every Wednesday at a r m, and arrive I a
r- at Hartfoid on Friday by 11 Am, lii
t- 45. From Hartfoid by Litchfield, New Milford, r
j Newtown, Danbury and Ridgefield to New York j
' once a week. I J
Leave Hartford every Monday by 10 a ic, arrive at 1
, I Litchii Id bl 71- !*, at New Milford on Tuelday by a
i 11 a m, and at New York on Tburtday bv 8 ax. h
1 Returnrng. Le-we New York every Thursday by 4 i
! p M, arrive at New Milford on Saturday noon, at I
1- Litchfield by 7r M, and at Hartford 011 Monday by I a
t" , 8 A M.
k ( 4 6. From Nrw-Havcn by Derby, Southbury, I I
I Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and Goflien, to C»-
| naan, once a week.
c " I Leave Canaan every Monday neon, arrive at Litcb- I <
"> ' field by 7f M > » n( i at Nrw Haven on Wednesday by I
:h 10 AM. Leave New Haven /every Wednesday by 4I '
p m, arrive at Litchfield on Thursday noon, and at I '
>n Canaan by 7T m.
or 47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford, I
n. Fredericktown, Dover, Sh»r n, Sheffield, Great j
ve Barrington, Stockbridge, Pittifield and WilliamftoD J
ay to Bennington I
iy Leave New York Monday, Wednesday and |
Jn Friday at 5 AM, the next Wednesday, Friday and I
0 . Mouday at 6P M. Returning. Leave Bennington
every Thurfdav, Saturday and Tuefdar by g A M, I
and arrive at New York the next Saturday, Tuesday I
and Thursday by 6 P M. I
ry If the llaget run but once a week on this route the I
ir- mail is to leave New York every Mondav at 5 AM,
w arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6P M. Leave I
if. Bennington on Thursday By 5A M, and arrive at I
; aY New York on Saturday by 6 PM.
M 48. From New Y irk by Yonkers, Peeklkill, Fish- I
' kill, Poughkeepfie, Rhinebeck, Redhook, Clermont, j
Hudson, Claverac and Kinderhook to Albany three
. r timea a week. {
Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and I
, Friday by aP M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 PM.
, r Leave Tairytown every Tuesday, Thursday and S»- I
la > - turday at 5A M, arrive at PoughkeepGc by 7 PM.
V. Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Fridav and Sunday
by 5 AM, arriveat Kinderhook by 7P M. Leave j
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
ret at 5A M, and arriveat Albany by 8A M. Return- |
ing. Leave Albany Thutlday, Saturday and Mon- I
; ve day by 3P M, arrive at Kinderhook , by 7PM. I
r _. Leave Kindei hook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at I
M sam, arrive at Poughkeeofie by 7> M. Leave I
' Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at I
jam, arrive at Tarrytown by 71 m. Lsave Tarry- j
s a town every Snndav, Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a I
m, artive at New Vork at tt a m.
m, 49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfingbargh, to I
ort Salem, once a week.
ori Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8a m, arrive at
Lanfiugbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Saleni by 4 r m Re- I
turning. LeaveSalem every Monday, by 8, a *t, and I
•"d airive at Albany by 5 r rx.
50. From Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Ver
md gennes, Bason-Harbour, Wlllfboro 1 , Petu and Platts
m. burgh, to Champlaia-town, once in two weeks, j
iirf- LeaveSalem every other Wednesday by 5a m, and j
day arriveat the next Sunday by 5 f Re
turning. Leave Plattfburgh every other Monday at U
rth- am, and ariive at Salem the next Friday by 4p m.
Don 51. From Lanfingburghby Waterfoid, Stillwater,
Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Fairhavcn, to
u_ Rutland, in Vermoot. 1
Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and
a^c arrive at Rutland the next Saturday by 6p «, Rc
turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon,
a nd arrive at LBnfingburgh on Thurlday by -IO am.
lU U- 52. From Albany by Sche.ieaady, Tripea Hill,
lt 5 Conajoharryj (ierman Flatts, Old Fort Schuyler and
m P" Whiteatown to Rome. Thctimcs defiud tabcjldtcd in
ar " the prefojals. ,
y 4 53. From Schcneftadv bv Balltown Springs iirf
Glenlb idgc to Sandy Hill once a week.
, Leave bcheneftady every Tuc!d«y-by 6 a m. and
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4 f M. Leave Sandy Hill on
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Scheneftady by
=vc " 4 PM.
on 44. Front Tripcfhill to Johnfton onpe a
ier - Leave TripcfbUl in one bcur atlcr the mail arrives
ack- from Albany on Tuesday, atrive at Jolinftan in two
'day hoiirs, flay at Johnlton two hours, and return to
Tripcfhill in two hours,
5 5. From Conajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo
ton perttown twice a week.
tier- Leave CoflajoMfry every Wednesday and Saturday
idee at 6 A m, antl arrive at Cooperftrwn by ar m.
ucf- Leave Coopeiftown every Tuesday and Frtday by 10
M; am, and ai"*/ve at Conajoharry by 6p m.
t(I)p _ 56. From Coopeiftown by Butternuts and Oxford
Val to Union once in two weeks.
ice a Leave Union every other Monday by »o am, and
arrive at Coopcrftown' on Wednesday by 5p m. Rc
*m. turning. Leave Coopeillcwn every other Thursday
,by 6 a m, and arrive at Union or> Saturday by 3 r u.
lon- s}. ftom Old Fort Schuyler by Cmcinnatuj to
Oxloid Academy once :n two weeks.
/nd L«ve Old Fort Schuyler every other Thursday by
A'a!. 6a M, and arrive at Oxfffd on Friday noon. Re
d at turning. Leave Oxford every otter Friday by 2p w,
and kfiive ti OH toil Stliu_,ler on bi ; i s T
M. by 8
<jß. From Rome V'V to Rotterdam once
in two we.-ks.
£eave Rams rveij 1 other XhurGdai 10 AM. and
' arrive a'Rotterdam bv 6P M. Returning, ieave <jn
Rotterdam every other Friday bygWM, and arrive '
at Rome by 6 P M. <" M '
59. From Rome bv Oneida, Onoiiddigua, Scipio lol ' 4
and Geneva to Kanandaiqua once a week
Lave Rome every Thurfdjy by to AM, arid ar- l.eeil
ri. e at Kanandaigua every Monday V to AM. Coor
I /.cave Kanandaigira every Monday bv 10 A M, and Z.eav
ariive at Rome the nextTburfdavbv 8 A M. arriv
60. From Kanandaigua by Hanford to Niagara 83
once in two weeks Port
Z.eaveKanandaii;iia every other other Mond»yby >t> Ia
A It, and arrive at Niagaia the »ext Wednesday by 7 m, a
PM. Returning. Leave Niagara eveiy otiier Fri- turm
day by 6 A M, and arrive at Kanaudaigua the nevt |
Monday by 6 AM' jj.,
61. From Rhinebeck by Kingston, Shawancunk, ar
Wardfbridgr, Go-hen, Hamburg, Newtown, John-
fotifburg and Hope, to Eafton, once a week.
Leave Eafton every Tharfday by 3P M, and irrive . ' '
at Rhinebeck thenrxt Sunday by 5P M. Returning.
Leave Rhinebeck every Monday by 8 A M, and arrive
at Eafton en Thmfilay by t.o A M.
6a. From New York by Hakenfack, Paiamus, j on "
New Antrim and Chester to Golhcn once, a week. j
Leave New York every Friday at 7 A M, and ar- I at K
rive at Gofhen on Saturday by 6 PM. Returning. | Que
Leave Gofhen every Tuesday at 6A M, and arrive at I 8i
New Yorkon Wednesday by 6 PM. I hou
63. From Filhkiilby Newburg and New Windsor I L
to Gofli-/i once a week. I 1
Leave Fiftikill every Wednesday by 7 AM, and 1 nefc
arrive at Golhen by s P M. Leave Goltien every j eve.
Tuesday at 7A M, and arrive at Filhkill by £P M. I e#u
64. From New York by Jamaica, Huntington. ] 8
Smithtowo, flrnokhaven, Suffolk, Southampton & I and
Biidgehampton t® Sagharbour once a week. in t
Leave New fork every Thursday at 10 AM, and j I
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M. j A ,
Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8 A M, and ar- J p ]
rive at New York on Wednesday by 5 P M. Mi
— I ru
I NF.IV-JERSEY. I
t 6j. From Woodbridge to Amboy three timej a I
I week. |
I Leave Woodbridge every Monday, Wednesday & I !
, Friday at 8A M, and at Amboy by 9 A M. om
[ Leave Amboy a' noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
. I 1 P M. I M
, I 66. From Trenton bv Allcntowo, Monmouth ret
I court-house, Shrewsbury, Middletown Point, Spots- 1
I wood, New Brunfwick,Somerfet, New Germ anion, I
I Pittltonand Flemington to Trenten once a week. I
Leave Trentoo every Tuesday by K> A M, and re- 1
I tarn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M. I A
II I 6l- From Philadelphia by Taullton and Atfion to I M
I Tuckeiton onee in two weeks. I
- I Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3I 5
■ PM, arrive at Tuckerton on Thursday by 6 P M.
d I Leave Tuckerton every other Tuesday by 6A M, and an
I arrive at Philadelohiaon Wednesday by 9 AM, I in
I- I 68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swedefbo- I
I rough, Wood (town and Salem to Bridgetown once a | M
e I week, I
1- Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by Ibj
* I 3 Velock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by a I p
|P M. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at 8 AM, and I
>, 1 arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday at 9A M. I
69- From Philadelphia by Jenkintown, Plumftead I
if 1 and Pipers by Bethlehem to gallon once a week. 1
g. I Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday by 10 AM, I
it j and arrive at £aAo* on Thursday by 2 PM. Return- I
1 iog. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9 A M, andar- I '
j, I rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3 P M. I
k 1 70. From Plumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to I
I Pittfton once a week. I
at I Leavc'Plumftead every Thurfdiyby 5 A M,arrive | c
>y jat Pittfton by II A M. Leave Pittfton by 1 P M, I
id. I and arrive at Plumftead by 7 P M. I a
41 71. From Eafton to Wilkelbarre once a week. I L
at Let vc Eafton every Thursday by 3P M, and arrive I 9
jy lat Wilkelbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave I 6
Wiikefbarrre every Tuesday noon, and arrive at Ea- I
y, fton every Tburtday by noon.' [ c
a. I 7«. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap, I
Pottfgiove, Reading, Lebanon and Harrifburg t« | a
h- I Carlisle. •
by Oftober 1,5 to April 15, Leave Philadelphia every 1 h
4 I Tuesday and Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading
at I every Thursday aiid Saturday at 4 PM. Leave Read- I 1
ing every Friday at 8 A M, arrive at Carlisle every
d, I Sunday by II AM. Returning Leave Carlisle eve- I j
rat ry Sunday by aP M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday I
on Iby 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday aud r
I Monday by 8 A M, and arrive at Philadelphia on
nd j Thursday and Tuesday by 4 P M.
nd I April 15, to Oftnbcr 15. Leave Philadelphia eve-,
on j ry *Vedne(day and Friday at 8 AM, arrive atßead-
VJ, ing on Thursday and Saturday by u AM. Leave j
ay I Reading every Thursday noon, ar.d arrive at Carlisle
I the next Saturday by it A M. Returning. Leave
he I Carlisle every Monday noon, arrive at Reaatng on 1
M, Tuesday bv 7P M. Leave Reading every Wcdnef- (
ive I dav and Monday at 8 A M. and arrive at Philadel
at phis on Thursday and Tuesday by 9A M
I 73. From Reading by Hamburg. Sunbury and
fh- 1 Northumberland to Louifburgonce a week,
nt, Leave Reading every Eriday at 6A M, and arrive
ree lat Louifburg on Monday by 10 A M. Returaing.
I Leave Loui[burg every Tuesday noon, and afrtoe at
nd I Reading on Thursday by 4 P M.
M I 74. From Harrifburg by Peterlburg, Mitlerftown,
Sa- I Thornpfontown, Miffltntown, Louiftown, Huntinr-
M. I don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belle Fount, Milet
iay I burg, Aaronfburg, Miffltnhurg, Louifburg, Northum
sve I berlind, Sunbury and Halifax to Harrifburg once in
ay, I two weeks.
rn- I Leave Hatrilburg every Saturday by 6A M, wait
on- I ing at eac'i port-office which be .'ftlbli,(hed on
M. the route, two hours, a"d return again to Harrifburg
, at I the next Monday by 8 A M.
;ave I 75. From Somerset by Connellfville to Union once
, at I a week.
ry- I Leave Somerset every Thursday by SA. M.arrive
5 a lat Unionby 4P. M. Leave Union every Friday bv
18 AM and arrive atSomerfetbv 7 P. M.
,to I 76. From Pittfburg by Canndnfburg, Wafliington,
I Weft Liberty and Wh-rling, to the mouth of Fifti
■ at I ing Creek, onqe a week.
Re- I Leave Piitlburg every Friday by noon, and arrive
and I*t Fishing Creek on Sunday by 9A M. Returning.
I Leave Fifbiog every Wednesday bv 4 P M,
fa- I and arrive at Pi tfburgthe next Friday by so A M.
itts- I 77. From Prcfton by Washington to Cincinnati
I once a week.
and Leave Preston every Friday at noon, arrive atWaftr-
Re- ington by 8P M, and at Cincinnati thecext Monday
atß noon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday
4. it 6A M, and arrive at Waftiington on Wednesday
iter, by 5P M. Leave Waftiington at 9P M, aud arrive
, to at l'rcfton on Fridav by it \ AM.
From Pcterlbarg bv City Point to Bermuda Hund
and red, three times a week.
Rc- Leave Petersburg every Monday, Wednesday and
MW, Friday by 6 AM, and arrive at Bermuda Hundred
m. bv 10 AM. Leave Bermuda Hundred by it AM, I
Hill, add artive at J?«criburg by 3PM, on the famedjys.
and ■
■d in KENTUCKY.
78, From Washington by Springfield, Bou-bon,
Lexington. Frankfort and Harrodfburg to Banville
once a week,
an d Leave Walhingtonevery Saturday by 8 A M, and
'I on arrive at Danville the next Monday by 5P M. Rc
yby turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Lexington on Wednesday noon, afld at
Waftiingti nonThurfdav by 6 P M.
rivet . /g p [0 m Danvillt to Leu fville by Beardftown
two onee in two week*
n 10 Leave Danville every other Tuesday bv noon, ar
rive at Luuifvilie the next Thursday by 3 PM.
Coo- Returning Leave Louisville every other Friday by
6 A M, and arrive at Danville on Saturday by 6 P M
rday (}□ f,om Danville by Stamford and Cumberland
' Gap to Moffat's (lore in Teoneiree once a week,
y lO ■ Leave Danville every Monday at aP M. and arrive
at Moffat's (lore the next Thursday by 6 P M. Leave
ford Moffar'* store every Friday by 6A M, aud arrive at
Danyille on Monday by to^M.
and
f^y TENNESSEE.
p m. 81. From Knoxville by South Weft Point and
as to Fort Bbunt and C.aig fort to NaOivilU once in two
weeks
iy by Leave Knoxville every other Tiierday by 8A M,
Re- and arrive at' Nalhville the nekt Monday by 9A M
p Reiurnvng. Leave Nalbvilleevery s>ihcr Mond-iy by
3 ? M, uc arrive at SMaxviile the next Saturday
by 8 P M.
MARY I AXI) : MD riRGINtJr
'S2 From Sutimore by Elikott's Lower Mills,
Montgomery cqurt-houfe, Chariefburg, Z.eefburg>
JVlMdUburg anil VVarrtuton to Cuipeper court
hcHift, once a week.
Z'ave Baltimore every Monday nooa, arrive at
on Tuesday evening, and at Calpeper
Court Houle'the next Thursday n'oon. Returning,
ieave Culpeper court-hocfe every Friday noon, and
arrive at Baltimore the next Monday by 9 A M.
83. Fron Allen's f 1 eih by iudlow's Ferry to
Port Couway in Virginia.
ieave AllenN Fresh every other Monday by 6 a
m, arnd arrive at PortConivay by 4 P M. Re
turning. .Leave Port Conway every otner Tlisfs
day by Sam, and arrive at Allen's Frelh by 7 ? M.
84. From Morgantown by Petty John to Clark
four y oner in two weel^s.
£eave Morgantown every other Monday by J A
M, and arrive at Clarksburg by 5 P M. RetHrn
ing. Zeav.e Clartfburg every other Tuesday 'oy 8
A M, and arrive at Morgantown by 8 P M.
I 85. From Todd's to King and Queen Court K.
I once a week.
i ieave Todd's every Thursday by 9a M, arrive
I v.t King and Queen by II A M Lcave Ktng and
I Queen at I P M, and arrive at Todd's by 6 P M.
I 86. From Halifax by' Danville to Calwell court-
I house once in two weeks.
Leave H tlifax cpuri-houfe every other Tuesday by
I j P M, arrive at Cafwell court house the next Wed-
I nefday by 6P M. Retutning. Lt-ave Cafwell C.H.
I eve'ij other Thursday bv 6A M, and arrweat Halifax
I e#urt house on Friday by noon.
87. From Peterfburgh by Suffer court house
I and Southampton court house to South Quay, one*
I in two weeks.
1 Leave Peterfborg every other Wcdnefday by 6
I A M and afcive at South Qaay on Thursday by 6
IP M- Returning. Leave i-'outh Quay every other
I Monday by 6 A M a#d arrive at Peteriburg ou
j Tuesday by 3P M.
NORTH-CAROLINA' He
: I 88. From Newbern to Beaufort and Swanflioro*
I once in two weeks, the mailt# go alternately.
1 I Lsave Newbern every other I'hurfJay by 6 A
I M, remain at each of the offices , two hours, and
1 I return to Newbern the next.
j 89. Fr#ra Wilmington by Georgetown to Cfcar
-1 1 lefton, once a week.
I Leave Wilmington every Monday hy 6A M
I and arriv«at Charleston the next Thursday by 10
IA M. Leave Charleston every Thursday by 3 P
' I M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday by
> JPM.
' 1 90 From Norfolk by Kefripfville, Great Bridge
1 I and Norfh Weft River Bridge to Jonelboro", once
| in two weeks.
. I Leave Norfolk every other Wcdnefday at 9 A
1 I M and arrive at Jonefboro' on Thursday by 7 P M
I Returning. Leave Jonelboro* every other Monday
y [by 10 A M and arrive at Norfolk 011 Tuesday by 6
' FM.
I 91 From North Weft, River Bridge by New Le-
I banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
<'• 1 Leave North Weft River Bridge every other
I Friday by 6 A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
'I6PM. I.eave Elizabeth-city ev.ry other Satur-
I day by 6. A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
' I by 6 r M.
o .| 91. From Salem, N. C. by Bethania, Flower
I Gap Grayfoneourt-houfe and toWythe
, e I court-house onci-in two we«ks.
\ I Leave Salem every other Saturday by 6A M,
' I and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mon. by 6 p M.
I Leave Wjthe court-house every other Tuesday by
»e I 9 K M, and arrive at Salem the next Thursday by
ie 6 PM.
a- j 93. From Murfreelboro* by South Quay toSuffolk
I once a week.
P, I From Murfreetboro' every Wednesday by6y«M, -
t« | arrive at Suffolk br 6? M. Returning. LeaveSuf
folk every Tuesday by 6 A arrive at Murfrcet'-
ry I bOro' by 6 P M.
fig I 94. From Fayctteville to Pittiburg once in two
d- j weeks.
ry 1 Leave Favetteville every other VCcdnefday by 6 A
e- J M l , aud arrive at Pittfburg on Thursday at 10 A M.-
ay J Leave Pittfburg every o r her Thursday by %PM,and_ar
ud rive at Favetteville on Friday by 6P M.
on
GEORGIA AND SOU TH-CAROLINA.
it->
>d* 95. From A.u 3 ufta by Robinson at the White
kVC Ponds agd Gillets mills to Coofahatchy, occe a
week.
IVC Leave Auijufta every Tuesday by 8 A M and ar
°? rive at C«:>fahatchy on Wcdnefday by 7 PM. Re
c, * turning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
C M and arrive at Augusta on Monday hy 5 PM.
0( j < 96. From G.orgetown to Rocky Landing in
Georgia, once in two weeks.
; vc I.eave Georgetown every other Monday at 6 A
ng. M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at 5 PM. Re
at turning. Leave Rocky Landing every other Tues
day by 6 A M and arrive at Georgetown by 6 FM.
vn, ——
" t |; NBV JERSEY.
im " 67. From Newtown ry Hacketftown, Movriftown
in Bnd Chatham to Newark, and from Newa k back by
Chatham, Morriftown, Booncton, Rockaway and
air " Spat 1a to Newtown, oncca week.
on Leave Newtown every Thuriday by 5A M and ar»
ur si rive at Newark on Friday by 10 AM. Leave New
ark every Friday by 2 P M, and arrive at Newtowa
ncc on Srturday by 6P M.
'by ote 1 ' M a J** r Gweral may alter the times
of arrival and (Lf>ai ture at any time duriug the continuavfe
ton °f contrasts, he prtviovfly Populating an adequate com
-1 th- penfation f»r any extra expense that may be oCcaf.uneH there- f
by.
rive
Note 2. Half an hour Jball t* allowed Jir opening
mid cloftng the Mail at all offices where no particular time
is fpecificd.
nati Jr
arti- Note 3. For every hour s delay {unavoidable accidents
l( j a .. exceptedJ in arriving after the timet prefoibed in any con
fday t*e Contrattor shall Jprjeit one dollar, and if the de
yav lay continue until the departure vf any depending Mail,
rive whereby the Mails defined for fuck depending Ma:! t kfe
a trip, an additional forjtrtitvc of jive do lars shall be
ind- **P>rre4'
and Note 4 N&ivffapers as well ae Lepers are to be f-ai
dred in the Mails , and if any. p erf on mating proposals defies
IM, to carry nenvfpapers other than tb<fe conveyed in toe rpaily
kays. for hu own emolument, he mufl fate in bis proposals for
what sum he will carry it with that emolument and for
what sum without that tmolument.
bon, _ f
tVI " C Note Shonld any pevfon making proptfals drf re «>l
, alteration of the times of arrival and departure adt-i-jJy •
cifedy he mufl slate in hit proposals the alteratic s li. 'hedy
Nl" tnitfje difference they will make in the terms of bi> can
d a-: ' _ *
own AW 6. Per for,; making proptfals are deftt'eJ to Jrate
their prices ly the year. 'li f: who contrail will 7 efeivc
, ar- their pay quarterly, in the months of fattuaryj jlpril y
5 J u b unc * vftcber^
iv Wy
v l, Note 7 The contra 8 s ar: to be in operation cn the fir (I
f day <f Oftober next, dr.d continue for four years, until
rrive ihe f rf} <?/ fOehber 1801 —excepting coniraas for tie
eave routes Nj. 8, 9 s 10, 31, sjjs j j 57» 74»
veat 76, 77, Bc, 81, 83, 84. ?7» 9W 9^—
which are to continue Jar two years until th \fl oj Oiiobeiy
1799-
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
„wo Poji-Mafter General.
AM, General Poll-Office, Philadelphia, 7
A M *
ay by June I. aawtjji