■ '/
#a?ette if ©niteD States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
FRIDAT EVENING, FEBRUART Z , 1797. • [Volume XI.
TIvMBiR 1575-J , ;
Warranted Likenesses,
Taken by WILLIAM WILLIAMS. 1
Price* si om 1 o to ioo Dollar* 5 b
: A few young Ladle* may be .nftrufied .n the elegant Art* M;
of Drawing and Paiating, by applying to the above artist a T( ,
his houte, the Nonh East Comer of Fou# and Pine Mieeu. D;
where fpecimenj of his performance raajTbe l«eo. ,
Feb. 1. 3t ' Co
— ~ Jar
Ob SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, Feb. 4, Co
Wweeh hours of 6 *»d a o'cU lr, W
Will positively be Sold at Public Vendue, at the Mer- 1 *
chant's Coffec-Houft, '
A NOTE,
Drawn by William Burgife & Co. of South Third- JT
street, near" Market-street, Linen Drapers, in favour
of Robert Bu'rpifs, jut), or order, for 600 dollars.
The said Note became due the 30th December last, T
and was proteftedfor noA payment.
An approved Nata at 60 days will be taken in pay
ment.
February a. 3
Insurance Company of the State of
G
<•.OTICE is hefeby given, that the directors have de-
AN clared a dividend of thirty dollars per thare, e*
he bufinels of the last fix months : which will be paid to '
he flockholders <»r their legal reprcfentatives, after the » s
loth instant. _ ,
SAM. W. FISHFR, Strt*T. »>■
Philadelphia, F«b. id, 1797. dt«*b. ...
ffT ON FRIDAY, Si
The third inft. at haif pail 2 b'dock P. M- the Annual >
Orati nof the Philadelphia Medical Society, will be deliver- si
«d at the City Tavcin —where all the honorary member* are
icquelted to attend,
By older of the Sociaty.
FOR
7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
hundred tonsburthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARYis not fold in a few days, fee will tak x
freight for Hamburg, Apply a* above.
Oftobjer 31. d f
For Sale, or Charter,
<3Ln Tl»e Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,'
Burthen 105 47*95 tenß r eg ister . built in
Philadelphia in the year 1795, of live oak a
and red cedar, a Q d was Iheathed 13 mnnths ago, she
lias just had a compleat out-fit, and nuy be sent to lea
£t a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin & Co.
Who have far /ale on beard /aid vejjel, r
47 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and ia bundles of writing Slates,
1 box ink stands and note prefle*.
14 bales of fail ennvafs.
' ' And on hand,
Imperial
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong j .
40,080 pieces Nankeens of the fit'ft quality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
* chests B indanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goodswell assorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Mufiin«;s, DimiueSj&c.
3 boxes blackfewing silk.
jBo crates Queens ware well assarted.
10 tons sheet lead.
Nail# assorted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wire in pipes
London Market, > and hog(hcads ,
lflew-York Market, J
40 pipes and 10 hoglheads Teneriffe wine.
8 t! rces Snake Root.
430 logs Mahogany. .
Nov 1
* A CARD.
If Monsieur G H. S3 hie,
Who left Bordeaux the »ath June last, and arrived
at Bolton j-baut the middle of Aaguft, in the fchoor.er
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he i* requested to call on
Joseph Anthrmy & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
■will give him fomc iaformation of importance
-1796. §
S~A L T P E T,R E.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Fetre for
fele at No. ij, South Third-fireet.
November 5.
Waflungton Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
•the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
.two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for'the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Waflungton, fro.i th Po
,iomacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
The foll9wing is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -1 Prize of ao.ooo dollars, ao,ooo
1 ditto 10,00.9 10,000
7la!t drawn > „„
Ticlicts, each j ">° o °
6 ditto 1,000 <,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
jo ditto 100 2,000
• 55 ditto SO »,7Jo
57j0 ditto Xz 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 16,156
5850 Prizss, 1.75,000
11650 Blanks, not two t« a priic.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
qfp The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the panftjial payment oi
4he priies.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
Melay, as soon as th<> Ticket* are fold, of which timeiv
notice will be given.
Such prizes j>s are not .demanded in fix months after th<-
drawing is finifhed, (ball be considered as for
£he benefit «f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
€it ef Walhington, Feb. Jl. J
Red Clover Seed. }
Fresh red Clover Seed of the best quality, in bags of f
5 bnlhels ench . I
Madeira wins In pipes, fit for immediate use J On
Teneriffe wine in pipes, hoglheads and quarter calks 1
Ditto do. of firlt qutality, for the use of pnvate
families I j- ia
Coffee in hoglheads I at
Jamaica spirits I de!
Connecticut soap in small bows I a.
Window glnls and SpaijKh legars, and 1
Two trunk*.of best patent, plain and ribbed silk and Je
cotton hofierv, forfaleby by
JOHN CRAIG.
February T- wff&mtf ISa
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-deeds,
Roots, &c. &c. t p.
Thi* day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick, i tui
from London, j at
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE, ct
Corner of Walnut and £econd-flreets, j
Amo ft capital and txtenfive Affortmcnt of Iri
GARDEN, GRASS ? nd FLOWER-SEEDS, h
ROOTS, &c. See. tb
Among which are, |
Five kinds .Afparagusf|Threc kind« Cresses ex
Eour gerecole Twelye Omon tr
Twenty-five Beans Thirtesn J.adilh <
sil Beet. Fifteen rurn.p ai
Eleven Brocoli Fifteen Peas
Twenty-si? Cabbage Six Savoy »
Six , Carret Four Parsnip ci
I Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon I
pi ve Celery Twenty-one Lettuce j r;
s Ten Cucumber '
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley j °
Pot Marygold Ptt Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzcl J
Leek Kail Shallots I
Rape Seed Rye «raf* Saint ,Foin Lucern* j
Red and white Clover Timothy, tkc. kc.
With a curious colledion of the most eileemed j -
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOFS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city. j j
The above are from a capital Seedfmati in Londan, and I
are warranted freih and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17 ■
" Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 45, South Third-street, I {
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, viaLon- j j
l don, an affortinent of I -
e Scarlet I ]
a Drab (Cloaks trimmed with tur ar.d j ,
Purple and f ermine.
Pearl J
December 15.
~ c? NOTICE. ;
''pHE Sales ftf LANDS of the United States, in the
Jl North-Western Territory, heretofore advertiled
in the several public papers, will commence this even- ,
ing, it the City Tavern to be continued t; oci day j
to dav, 'till the te?ith of February neyt, if not foouer
fold.'
January 4 < § — 1
In order to comply nvitb contrails, I tvill fed, for
apbnvid bonds, on 3 equal annual payments, |
A Square of LOTS,
r- At the upper end cf Fredericklburg, beginning op- j
c. polite to the lower corner of Doctor Wtllford's, or. I
Caroline-flrect, and running up to the cross street |
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thcce back to I
Sophia-street. This square I have laid off into 14 lots, I
17 avid an half feet front, £nd back, 11 on Caro- ]
line-street, and 12 on Sophia-street. Nine of tlvofe I
On Caroline-street I have lealcd on an annual ground I
rent of 8 and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds, |
and the vacant lots apurchafer could enhancc the value
of by building small houfts, which will as readily j
procure tenants as pots or goards will Manias in the I
<tf iprmg, and yiel-o a greater profit in proportion to I
their cost than large buildings. Thof- who incline 1
to purchase may knaw the term* by applying to
HENRY FiTZHUGH.
'eil Bell-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d4W
Treasury Department,
ho September 28, 1796. ' j
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury I
until the exp'iratla.i of the fu-ft day nf March Dext en- j
ruing, for the supply of aU rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the tirft day of
f or Juhe, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days, inclusive, at the placcs and within the diftriftn here
after mentioned, vir. At Ofwego; at Niagara;, at
— Picfque lfte; at Lafce, and on Sandulky
River; at Detroit; at Micbilinlackinac; at Fort-Frank
> lin, at Pittsburgh ;at Cinoinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-jtfferfon; at Grenville; at
if«d Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
in( j Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ;at any place h«low Fort
m g ' Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Po Stuuben ;at FortMaffac ;at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United State* on the river
Miflifippi: at Fort Knox ; at Quiatanon.
If fuyplies lhall be required for any pods or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such fap;ili<s fhaU be fur
liifbed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed en
between the United States and the Contra&pr.
The rations to be fupplicd are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pouhd two ounces of bread ar flour.
Oije pound two ounca* of beef, or fourteen ounce* of
pqrk or bacon.
Half a gill of ruru, brandy or whilkcy.
One quart and half a pint of fjdt.~\
Two quarts ef Vinegar, (
Two pounds of Soap, r P er hundred rations
One pound of (handles, j
re The rations are to be furnilhed in fach quantities, as that
. there /hall at all times during the said term, be fufiicient
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
oui troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, far the ierm of fix month* in
e j v advance, and at each of the other ports, lor the term of
6 J at least three months in adyance, in good ajjef wholesome
, provifions,if thefame lhall be required. If i 8 t0 j, e u11 j
deriood, that the Contractor is to be at the extents and
or rilk of issuing the fuppliss to the troop* at each'port, and
'' that all loffrs sustained by the depredations of an eneniy, or
P by means of the trpops of the United States, (hall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or deilroyed, on
the depofitioas of two or more persons of creditable cha-
and the certificate of a commiflioncd officer as
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amouut
of the aiticle* for which compensation fhaU be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
j Seerttary ef th# Trerfwry.
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United d; £
STATtS, lf
On the following PoJ} Roads, will he received until
the jtrjl Jay of March next inclusive '
X. From ChurHlvn, S. C. by Jackfonboro' and Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week Rcceive the Vlail
at Charlsfto.'i.evej'v sb<l Friday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at SuyiaUaMjir next Friday and Monday, by 8
A. M. £itvrilr.tr, receive the Mail at Savannah ev r I J
Saturday, by'"2" P. M. and Wednesday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Charleflpq the next Tuesday and Friday
by noon.
ProfiofaU for this route -wiil be rueived by the pajt'Tnajier at
Savannah. anc
2. F rom Coofahatchy to Be»ufort onee a week— foil
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
p. m. an.d deliver it at Beaufort by neon on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. M. and arrive
a{ Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m. _
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be re
ceived by the poft-niaiter at Beaufort.
Note I. The Poft-malter General may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time dp- ex(
ring the continuance of the contrails, he previcufly ftipu- £r<
lating an adequate compensation for any extw cxpence ins
that may be occafioncd thereby. ch;
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents wl
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
trail, the contra&or (ball forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
aa additional forfeiture of five dollars ihall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe- dc
cified, h« must state the alteration desired and the price fei
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte- pj
ration. v
1 Note 4. The contrails are to be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th ef
September in the year ISOO. _
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
P»jl Majlcr General.
*%, wr-S 3
y,, n. id. dflw. F
Mas. G RATTAN "
Refpeflfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the icthday of January,
she propofea opening, at No. 39, Nerth iixth
ftreet, _ ,
A Linen and Muslin Warehoiife, i
Book Muslins, from 673 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to lofio per yard,
Fine Coffaes
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard t
India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/" per yard j
Sheeting Mufim c
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/"* to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs ftom 5/3 to 10/6 per hdkf. (
Muslin color'd and border':'. Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
. Tambour'd Cravats from Ic/8 to li/il
| Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from li/3 tp 16/3 per yard -
Table Cloths
Towelling
r Womcu'i Cotton Hose, from 4$ to IXf p CI pair
ljmuty from £/io to 6/it
Mt,i"sijilk >i-V-
Tambour'd Handkerchiefs from 11/11 to i}fl
r Irjfli linens for Gentlerr<i>'s Shirts, lroni j/j; to jj/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Line:., Geptlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plaiu, Cravats,
Poelcet Handkerchiefs, &.c. &c.
" Houfliold Linen," Sic. &c. ,
A piain fuirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars,
0 A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
>> A plain (hirt, atade and mark'd, 5 dollars.
'• A full ruffled itto 6 dollars
e A plain (hirt, made aod marked, 5 1-2 dollars,
d A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
>, A plain {hirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
e A full ruffled ditto 7 1-4.
y A plain ihirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-2 dollars,
e A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
0 Linen included.
Ie January 13. $
Cheap French China.
THE ft.bfcribei-5 finding it impossible to ("apply their
— store with any more China from France, the pricw
being too immoderate in the manufailories, givft no
tice that they will fell at prime cost the remaiisir.g
B . ftecjt on hand, confining of
Deflert Setta,
Tea-Table Setts
;d Separate Cups and Saucer*
of Group® and Figures
th Alabaster Vkfes
e- Looking GlafTes, in gilt frames,
at Befidcs India Japan'd Toilet Deflts, Chairs, Table 6
■y n»d Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER k Co.
k- No. 91, South Seeond-ftreet.
1 ! December sth. {t
" The Elephant,
rt Now exhibited, wag bought for Ten Thousand
rt Dollars.
Ac He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
er He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
ot drawing the corks with Ins trunk.
■ r * He is perfectly inoffenfive; travel* Joofe, at the
ne . rate of five n»iles an hour, and is the gr«ateft curiosity
5n ever brought to this Conti»ent.
. He is- to be seen 'nil the ijth of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
of after which time the farmer price of halj:' a dollar will
be resumed.
H« will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
Dccembw 31 d
Brokers Office, and
at COMMISSION STORE.
Nt No. 63 South Third flrset,oppofite the national new BankJ
QAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
in O have entered into co-partnership, undpr the firm of
of FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
ne Conveyancers and Commiflkm merchants. They bay and
nj fell on coraniifiion every species of ilock, notes of hand,
nd bills of exchange, houses and lands, See.
nd Money procured on depoGts, <cc. $cc. "all kinds cf
or writings in the cenyeyancing line, done with neatnefsand
lid dispatch; accounts adjufled, and books feuled, in the
on most corretft manner. Coßilant attendance will be given.
ia-' They solicit a share of tfrt public favor ; they ire deter
if- mined to endeavour to defervc it.
N. B. Th* utmost secrecy observed.
SAMLWL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN YAN REED.
i'.UiLd. Augiift 37, 1795. ®ocwcf
Hibernian Society.
Such of the Members ot this society as arc entitled to
Diplomas, are requeitcd toaj'ply for then) to
Mr. Hugh Holmfi, Prcjidrnt \
Mr. David M'Carmrri, Treafwer,;
Mr. Robert H. Driniti , Counsellor ;
Mr* Jo/eph Brown {
Mr. Edward Fotf ' ••
Or to VJAJHEW. CAREY, See.
Phihd. Jan. 2T, 1797. tawfrt
FOR SALE,
About i,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marfl)
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Penufylvania, in
four Patents. For terms "i sale apply to
\Vm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South 6<*cond-ftriet
January 16. mwftf
, , ■ , 11 - ■ ' ■
WalhingtOn Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchafcd or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chcfnut?-
street, where a correal Numerical Book is kipt for public
infpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or eit
changed for prizes diawo iu the Walhington Lottery, of
which the 54th and Jfth dajs returns are received,
£5". The Business of a Broker carried 011 as usual.
January l». ttstf
-i — ■ ■ ' " "1
All Persons having Deipands
Against the Estate of the late Thomas Franklin,,
deceased, aie defjred to bring in their accounts for
settlement; and those indebted to make immediate
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, n
WALTER FRANKLIN, or V , xetu "
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, ) to "'
January 14th, 1796. eojw
... - . i.i -
Wants a Situation,
Ae a Housekeeper, an Englilh woman, completely
qualified in every relpedl to keep a Gentleman's Houle.
Enquire of tjie Pri»ter.
January 16 *<t
Davis's Law Bpok Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announce® to his profefllonal
and the (Gentlemen of the generally, through th#
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrange
ed, and ready for Sale, from a fiugle volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forfeverai years pail have iu lo diftmguiihed a
manner recommended them'to notice. 1
Printed Catalogues combining the most extensive col!«c»
tion cf the latest Eoglilh and Irifti tditions ever imported
into this country, are p&blifhed, aud will be delivered gia.it
on application.
Orders ad drifted to G. D. in wiitiag tion) aoy diftaaa/j
(hall be punctually attended to,
A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE I.ET,
A convenient LOFT, nearM.u k.et Street Wharf.
oy.S- tuStf^m
FOR SALE,"
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial f Hyson Skin.
Hyson, C Freth Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, j C Bohea
bee. 9. 3tawjn»,
e — 7 — r-
s > Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist toth*
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflbrtment of every thing necessary
tn be used forthc
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth#
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth f
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—h*
also furnilhes Brulhes and foft Sponges.
* tt * He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
— Fourth-flreet.
November 16. tt»
« Twenty Guineas Reward.
°" RANAWAY from the fubferiber »n the 23d O.Sober,
*i a Dark MdLATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 year«
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had 00 a mi«ed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a ftrlped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole hoots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for securing him so that the fubferiber may get hin»
le6 again, and if brought home all rcafonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
tt Eafton. Maryland, Nov. JO. I4<lmiawtf
FOR S/.LE AT WILLIAM PRIEST MAN'S
nd No. 15 south Fifth-ftreet,
Between Market and Chefnut Studs,
A Quantity of Plain Gold Watches 5 Gold enamel'd &
of £1. ornamented with pearls ; Silver and metal ditto, by
er > the firft makers in Londou and Paris ; a 1 ime-Piecs
by Arnold ; plain gold by Miidge W Dutton ; fcvenal
:i,e diamond and diamond & pearl lockets, rings, ear-rings,
ity & c • about 60 lb. of Scotch thread ; gunjj,
in cafe, by Manton ; quantity of plated table, tea, and
in night plated eandlefcicks, branches, &c. 46 volumes of
at Law-Books ; n one lot, meftly reports, foljo, scarce and
— valuable bo. *;; books of Print amongst which are
rill. Martyn OB Shells, Statue da Rofli, Calmet's Dia : onnair»
d,e Bible, Johnson's Poets, 7J vols. Bafkerville's Addifon,
ter '4 vols. Biograpjiia Britinnica, Op.ere de Machiavelli,
Ruins of Balbec, Blair*s Chronology, Pl-inii Hiftorica Na
turaljs, Montfaucon's Antiquities, State Trials; Evelyn's
— Silva, Poftlewayte's Dictionary, Rittrattii duomini illuf
tri Tofeani, Oueyres de Bayle, Caracci.
January 31 5
nk ! For Sale,
c f By the Subscribers —In PENN-STREET,
:r5 t 65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
' n , d Imported by the Eagle.
nd ' WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
c r Nov. 30
ALL PERSONS '
, en rND£BTED to the Estate of Georgf Ross, laieofCapc
c r 1 May, deceased, are requested to make immediate pay
ment to the Subscriber, and those who have any demands
against said Estate, will please call on him for fcttlement.
* JAMES rOf/NC; Adm'r,
' Swanfon, below South Street.
January }•New Theatre.
By Desire,
THIS EVENING, Friday, February 3,
Will be presented,
A TRAGEDY, called
Venice PrefervM;
. Or, A Plot Discovered.
Duke of Venice, Mr. Warrell
Priuli, Mr. Warren
Bedamar, Mr. Fox
Pierre, Mr. Cooper
Jaffier, Mr. Moreton
Hennault, ' MrJ WignM
j Spnofj, Mr. Barley, jun.
Elliot, Mr. Mitchell
Theodo-e, Mr. Biijett
Officer, Mr. J. Worrell
Belvidera, Mrs. Merry
End of the tragedy, a new Ballet Danee, compofsd
by Mr. Byrne, callwl
The Drunken Provc*cal;
Or, The Sailor's Return.
I vr *> Mr. gyrnt
Will, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Vicar, Sig. Doßor
Mafes, Mr. Blijptt
Dicky G»ffip, Mr. Mitchell
Solan. Miss Melbourne
Sailors, Meflrs. J. Darley, T. Warrell, Macdonald,
Morgan, St. Mare, Lavancey.
Laffet, Mrs. Doiftor, Miss Oldfield, Miss L'Eftrange,
Miss Bates, Miss Anderfon, M'llc Sophie.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, called
Animal Magnetism.
Marquis de Lancy, Mr. Fox
La Fleur, Mr. Hanwood
DoiSer, Mr. Francii
Picard, Mr. M'Donald
Francois, Mr". Warrell, jun.
JefTcry,' Mr. BliJJett
Conflance, Mrs. Harvey
Lifgtte, Mrs. Francis
Box, One Dollar cents. Pit Seven Eighhs
of a Dollar, and Gallery, half a dolliir.
£j* Tickets to be k id at H. & P. Rice's iSook-ftare.
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requefled to fend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as the company are fsated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on auy account be
ted to remain.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to tie'taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from
so till 4 on the days of performance.
FIFAT RESPUBLICA !
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On SATURDAY EVENING, Feb. 4, at 7 o'clock,
Will be continued;
THE EFFECTS OF AMBITION AND <»UILTj.
Confidcred, traced and exemplified in the character of
Macbeth.
With a recitation of the whole character, and moral
\nd critical observations on the character, and on the au
thor;
£3" On Tuefdav, 7th February,
The EFFECTS of AMBITION and C-UILT,
Exemplified In the charades- of iiatan and the Fallen
Angels, with rtcitatiom from Milton.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the Library ;
«t mr. M'Elifree's looking-glass-store, No. 70, S. Fourth
fireet ; and at Mr. Carey's, iJookfeller, Market-ftrect—
Half a dollar each.
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Eltate,
CALLED T WIT T E If H A M, fituare in the
township of Upper Derby, andedunty of Delaware,
7 J-2 miles from Phiiad Iphia, and half a mile from the
new Wcftern road :containi»g 230 aer« of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow,of prime wood
land, and the refl arable of the firft quality. There are
on tire preroifes a good two story brick with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame fcarn, (tables'
and other convenient buildings; a fmoke-hoafe and (tone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those imnieiiately
under tillage, and are so laid dut as to have the advantage
of waterin each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The lituation is pleasant and healthy, anh from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and tht
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman')
country feat. \
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman
deceased and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
OA" 31. law Surviving Executor
Second Ball.
New Cotiliens, Scetoh Keels, Contre Dances and a
n.w Qindiille. *
S ESS FRANCIS S3* BYRNE beg leave to inform
JVI their fchblars, frjends and the public in general,
that their second iJallf. r thisfeafon will be on Tuesday
the 7th of February, at Q'Ellers's Alftmbljr-Room,—
and in addition to their new Cotiiions and Reek, will
be introduced an entire nsw QTJADIULLE, compos
ed by Mr. Byrne.
Mess. Francis and Byi nc propose to give gratuitous at
tendance at their School-Room, for the inltru&ion of
those ladies and gentlemen in dieir new dances*, who mean
to honor the ball-room witfc their preftnei, 7—attendance
for this purppfe after their school hours, on Tuesdays and
I'hurfdayS.
Tickets to be had of MefT. Francis sind Byrne, No. 70
north EightSi-flrect or at O'EUers's Hotel. Ladies are
rcquefted to apply to their female friends, Icholarsof Mess.
F. & B. or is above, at their lefhjtnce.
N. B. The new dances will not infringe upon the usual
loutinc of the evening.
Thedaysof teaclnisg, for their young pupils, arc Thurs
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the alternoon,
'till fix—and oh Tuesdays and lhurl'days, from fix "till
nine, for th<ffc of a more advanced ajje.
Private Tuition as u&wl.
January 28 taw
Philadelphia, February 3.
ExtraS of a letter from a refpeflabU character in
HHJbro', North-Carolina, to hisfrieud in Phila
delphia.
We have received a paper containing a ftateroent
«f votes which decides the quellion of prefi'clency
in favor of Mr. Adams, and although we were oo
pofed to his election, the people here generally fcem
disposed to (hew that submission to the majority
which is alwayi due from the minority in a repub
lican government.
Philadelphia, February 2d, 1797.
Sir, *' 4
IN consequence of repeated publications in the
several newspapers throughout thV states, intimating
the illegality of the appointment of Ele&ors in the
(late of Vermont, arising from an idea that the
Legislature proceeds to the choice of Electors,
not having an existing law directing the made—
to couoteraft the ill impreffiong such publications
may have made, I enclose for your publication, a
true copy of the law under which the Legislature
of that state chose iheir Elefters.
ISAAC TICHENOR.
Mr. Fen no.
s
An aft directing the mode of appmnting Electors
tocleft the President and Viee-Prefident of the
United States.
It is hereby enalftd by the General AlJfembly of the
fiate of Vermont, That the Eleftois for electing a
President and Vice-President ef the United States,
be appointed by the ballot ©f the Governor and
Council and House of Representatives met in grand
committee ; and that those perfoas, to the number
\yhiah they have a right to appoint, who (hall have
a majority of all the votes of said grand committee,
fltall be declared to be duly appointed Eleftoii of
this state for the purposes aforefaid.
State of Vermont, Secretary of State's office,
Vergermes, January 11th, 1797.
I hereby certify, the preceding in a true copy of
an aft of the .Legislature of this state, palled No
yember third, one thousand seven Hundred and
ninety-three, and now remaining in force.
( Attest) iIOS. HOPKINS, Secretary.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Mr. Barney s haste to persuade his fellow-citizens
that h<?has, as yet, committed no piracies upon
their property, has brought to light some curious
cor.feflions. Among other things, ic appears, that
he is, at lcail, part owner of a privateer called the
Vengeance; and that there is fomelody in Balti
more, upon wbom Ill's captain can take the liberty
to diaw bills. Had not Mr. B»rney made this dif
coveiy, his captain's sea drafts might have been
clafled with Buonaparte's Leghorn receipts. He
also informs the public that his privateer had cap
tll red no American vessels on the 12th December.
Why alf j did he not add, that no po/itive orders to
capture had been received from Mr. Adet sr the
time Ins privateer failed upon her cruise ? it i 6
whispered that before he left the Cape, his privateer
was put in poflfeflion of orders to capture out ves
sels, and that his agent, Mr. Willfon, was to fell
them and their cargoes.
Mr. Fenno,
THERE is nothing more common than to im
pute a public evil to a wrong cause. Thus at the
present foment, a number of people fcejp tp think,
that the high market rate or interest of m»n«y, it
owing entirely to the will of the comparatively few
who have it to dispose of. In order to draw the at
tention of individuals, both legislators and others,
to a full difeuffion of the fubjeft by an able writer,
1 request you will publish the following extracts
from " Smith's Wealth of a book Jiighly
esteemed by every one who has read it.
111 Vol. 2—Page 41 —Dobfon's Philadelphia
Edition, art the following obfeivations :
" In fome,countries the interell of money has
been prohibited by law. But as something can
every where be made by the use of money, some
thing ought every vvheie to be paid for the use us
it. This regulation, of preventing, has
been fouud from experience toenrrrafe the evil of
usury ; the debtor being obliged to pay, not only
for the use of the money, but for the rifle which his
creditoi runs by accepting a compensation for that
use. He is obliged, if one may fay so, to insure
hisereditor from the jpnalties of usury."
In the fame page, be observes, that " where the
rate of interest is fixed bylaw, it ought always to
be somewhat above the lowest market price, or the
price which is commonly paid for the use of mo
ney by thofewho can give the moil undoubted se
curity." He adds, in page 43, that "No law
can reduce the common rate of interest below the
lowest ordinary market rate, that cxifts when the
law is made."
Mr. Smith fnmewhere fays, that the precious
metals are the money of the world, and that every
country will have the (hare of them, to which it is
entitled, in proportion to the amount or produce of
its labour ar.d industry. in fpeakiug of indivi
duals, in pages 129 and 130, he fays, that "over
trading is the common cause of the scarcity of mo
ney," owing to individuals adventuring more large
ly when the profits of trade happen to be gteater
than ordinary, and meeting witfe difappoinimcnts
in sales and expected returns.
It is frequently said that money being the stan
dard whereby to fix the value of every thing else,
the rate of inteieft ought to be permanently fixed
'by law.
Mr. Smith in of the vol. before men
tioned, iilows it to be »' the inftrnment of com
merce and » nieafure of value." He however fays,
in page 126, " Gold.and Silver are to be bought for
a certain price lika all other co,n*ncu/ttics, and as they
are the price'of all other commodities, so all other
commsdines arc the prict*t)f those metals." .
If fortunately the foregoing quotations should
induce any of your readers to peiufe-the Doctor's
general reakning on ike Jubjtft, my eoi will be
anfwercd.
It is I believe an acknowledged truth, that gold
and filvcr change their value, owing to revolutions
in trade combined with other circumftanccs. It
then the legislature should attempt to fix a certain
price oa them, at lead for any considerable length
of time, would it not in all human probability be
an arbi.rary one ?
AN OBSERVER.
From the jimeri\an Daily Aivertifer.
DIRECTIONS
fk_ /
For preventing calamities by F I R E.
1. Ksep your Chiainies and Stove-pipes clean
by sweeping them at lfaft once every month.
2. Never remove hot alhes in a wooden bucket,
or a wooden velfel of any kind, and look well to
the alh-hole.
3. After sweeping a hearth, fee that the hearth
brush does not retain any partiulcs of fire, before
yoa hang it up in its usual place.
4. Oblige all your servants to go to bed before
yon, every night, and infpeft all your fire places
before you retire to reft. For fear of Occidents,
let a bucket ef water be left in your kitchen every
night. The-wriier of these aireftions oncp saved
his house from being eoril'umed by fire, by this pre
caution. ,
5. Do not permit a servant to cany a can lie to
his bed roam, if he sleeps in an unplaiftered garret.
6. Cover up your fire carefully every night in
ashes. Let the unburut pirts of the billets, or
chuncks of woad, be placed next to the hearth, by
which means no fparka will be emitted fron) the
wood. Pour a little water upon the bu-ning ends
of the wood which are not completely covered by
• heafhei. Place before the fire a fender made of
(heet iron. This contrivance was well known in
England many years ago by the name of a coverfeu.
It has lately received from a top being added to it,
the name ot a hood.
7. Remove papers and linen from near the fire
when you leave it, to a remote part of the room.
8. Shut the doors of all the rooms in whiirh you
leave fire at night. By thus excluding the supply
of frefo air, you will prevent a flame being kind
led, should a coal or spark fall upon the floor, or
upon any other combustible matter in the room.—
The smoke which ifTues from this smothered fire will
find its way into every part of the house, and by
waking the family, may save it from de^ilftion.
9. If sickness, or any other cause should oblige
you to leave a candle burning all night, place it in
such a situation as to be out of the reach of the
tats. A house was once destroyed by a rat run
ning.away with a lighted candle for the fake of
the tallow, and conveying it into a hole filled with
rags, and other inflammable matters.
10. Never read in bed by candl: light, especial
ly if your bed be furrouoded by curtains.
11. Strictly forbid the use of fegars in your fa*
mily at all times, but more especially after night.
May not the greater frequency of fires in the U
mted States than informer yeats, be ascribed in
part to the more general use of fegars by careless
servants and children f There is good rea£bn to be
lieve a house was lately set on fit* in Northumber
land cop nt y, by a half consumed fegat 1 , which a
negro we>mjn threw away, to prevent her being
detested by her matter in the unhealthy and otfen
five prafticc of imoking.
In cafe of fire, attend to the following direc
tions, to prevent or restrain its terrible conse
quences.
1. Do not open the room or closet door where
you fufpeft the fire to be, until you have secured
your familr, and your most valuable effects, nor
until you have coilefted a quantity of water to
throw upon the fare, the moment a frefh supply of
air excites it into a flame. Where water cannot
conveniently be had, try to iniother *fi>e by
throwing two or three blankets over it. A British
sea captain once saved a king's ship by throwing
himfelf with a spread blanket iu his arms, upon a
fire which had btoke out near the powder room.
He was pensioned for life, for this wife and meri
torious aft.
2. In t afe it be impossible to efcapr by a (lair
cafe from a house on fire, shut the door of your
bed chamber, and wait until help can be brought
to secure your efeape from a window.
3. If fafety does not appear probable in this
way, wrap yourselves up in a blanket, hold yoar
breath, and rush thro' the flames. If water be at
hand, firft wet the blanket.
4. To-prevent fire descending from the roof, or
ascending fiom the firft (lory, form by means of
blankets, a kind of dam on each of the interme
diate (lories, near their flair-cafe, that shall confine
the water that is thrown upon the roof, or into the
windows. It will effectually check the progress of
tlie fire downwards or upwards in brick aad done
ho'jfes.
5. To prevent fire spreading to-adjoining houses,
cover them with wet bankets.
6. To extinguish fire in a chimney, (hut the
door and windows of the roorp. Throw a quart,'
9rm»rc of common fait into the fire. Hold, or
iiail a wet blanket before the fire plate. If these
means fail, throw a wet blanket down the chimney
from the roof of the house.
There method used in some countries of glai
aing chimnies when they are built by burning com
mon fah iu them, which renders" them so smooth,
that no foot can adhere to them. Chimßiei lo
conflrtjfted can never take fire.
Ladders are commonly used as the means of con
veying perfens from the windows of houses on fire.
Would ttot a long and (liff pole, with a rope fixed
at its upper end, be jnore portable, and convenient
for this purpose ?
The famous Mr. John Weftley, when a child waa
taken out of a window in his father's house whilst
it was ia flames, by one man (landing upon the
shoulders of another. This practice may be used
to rescue persons from tlu firft story of a house on
fire, where other means cannot be had with lufSci
ent convenience or expedition.
A WATCHMAN.
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
I HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, January it.
Mr. S<wan<wick'j Speech, concluded.
This, Mr. S. said, was the m»ft impo.rant ques
tion which was ever brought before that house-
He trembled every day when ha confide.ed on what
a fliadow the revenues of this government reded—
upon what ev»y nation seemed to rob us of : for,
added he, all are agreed inane paint, however rticr
msy disagree m othe.f, viz, to rub and ill treat ug.
Ihey were, indeed, invited to I, this; for, said
he, we have no barriers but treaties, and ihcv are
worse than nothing. ,
Mr. S. said we had no dependence upon owt re
venue ; at any rate it \Vas not mcne than fupporteil
eur present expences. Suppose, added he, all the
present nations at war, make pence, would there
than be na dangei of a defalcation of revenue »
There could be ho doubt of it. So that wheth r
war or peace, no certain dependa»ce could be
plated upon our revenue.
Did it not, then, become government to look
to something more substantial than commerce for
support ? It certainly did. Let us, said he,'fix
upon the principle of a direst tax, and not be de
terred at tlie threshold of the bafinefs. To fay it
was impoffiSle to fix upon fueh a plan so as to be
generally fatisfatV-ry, would be to fay we coiild
not do what many other nations had done.
He would again repeat that it would have been
better tor this country if the present plan had
been adopted sooner. However, as we had lately
declared ourfelvts the mutt prosperous, the moil
free and enlighte: « ! lOuntry in the world,this rould
not be an for introducing it. He
was rather glad, however, that a degree of neces
sity had brought the present mea&irt before thetn.
Misfortunes, he fsi fornerimWTTr'oveirtiie g.eat.
eft of bltflingi. He irufled the present ' event
would teach government econ'orey; tor, lince they
found the difficulty which attended the mifinj; of
money, they would be careful hosv they laviihed it
away. He trulled this meafurtof tai iug the far
mer, would also have the effedi upon him to awak
en a watchful attention to the operations .of j>a
vemment ; it was also give us, the means of pay. .
ing our debt, and of (hewing to foreign countries
that our revenue relts upon a foundation which
they cannot shake.
v Viewing the matter in this point of view, how
ever unwilling he was, in general, to call upon the
people/or he hoped the principle befoic
them would be adopted.
Mr. Gilbert said, the question was whether they
(hould raise the revenue wanted fey dire& or indirect
taxes. Though he was opposed to dire£t taxes, he
had no obje&ion to the committee's riling, that
the report might be re committed, in order that
• the committee of ways and means might be in
ftruited to report to the hnufe a plan of direct tax
ation, for the decision of the house. He acknow
knuwledged the neccflity of something being done,
but he was not ready- to vote for diredl taxation,
until he saw Something more of the business.
Mr. Christie was against the committee's rising,
becaufc he thought it was necessary to determine
upon the principle. He did not know whether
he should agree to this principle or not. It wa*
proposed that each state should be apportioned ac
cording to its last census. By this, he said, Mary
land woold be eonfiderably aggrieved. Several o
ther Rates were in the fame situation. If the gen
tleman would therefore withdraw his for
the committee's rising, he would move to (trike
out the words " according to the last census."
(The former motion was withdrawn.)
Mr. S. Smith hoped the words would ihe
(truck out; for, if they were truck oat, the
whole resolution would fall to the ground, as. if
they were not to mike a calculation ripen the tact
eenfus, they must either poltpoue the bulislefs un
til a new census was made, or go into the expeuce
of making a new census for the business*
Ihe gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Swan,
wick) had gone fully ihta the bufifefs, and (hewn
to the fatisfa&ion, he doubted not, of many in that
Houle, the necefiity of going intn f»n>e effeiftual
mode for fceuring a permanent revenue. Hi Le
lieved it would be found a fubjedt of difficulty to
carry into effect a direct tajc throughout the uniou,
but as the committee of Ways and Means had
brought forward the proposition, he doubted njt
they had attended to these difficulties.
He was not afraid of the state of Maryland being,
over-iated by taking the last cenfu-. it was not
necefi'ary, he said, to go into that fubjedt, or he
'believed Maryland ought to have had another re
presentative on that floor. He thought they (hould
not object to the plan befoie them on trifling
ground, as they Heed ntver be able to apportion
any system to farthings. Whether he (hould vote
for the system proposed h: knew not, but he wished
to have the fubjeit taken up, that we might have,
it in our power to fay, we arc an independent na
tion, and that it may not b<: in the power of any
> other to cut off our supplies. Such a step, he fai4,
was necessary, and he doubted not the people would
be found willing to give their government a proper
support.
Mr. Christie said, if he thought his motion went to
destroy the principle, he would withdraw it ; but he
believed the principle wo.ild be as well tried without
the words as with them. He thought it would be proper
to have a new census taken. He wondered his colleague
(Mr. S. Smith) (hould think Maryland would u t be
over-rated by the present census. He was confident
they would. If those words were out of the refjlutioify
He would vote for it, but not other wife.
Mr. Nicholas had no objection to the words being
(truck out, because if they were out, they must be
guided by the last census, except a new one was taken :
and if the gentleman could not take the sense of the
House upon the propriety of taking a new cinfus, with
out ftrikmg out these words, he hoped they would be
struck out, in order to give him an opportunity of try
ing that question.
The question for striking out was put and negatived.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) said the fubjedt was aa
important one, and from his prepoffedion (gentlemen
perhaps might be inclined to call it prejudice) against
a system of dL'edt tuition, be could, aot think theHouse would be readily bro't to agree to Rich a sys
tem. Ht only role, however, then to notice what ha '
fallen from the ?eiuic..ien from N. York and S.Caro
lina (Mr. Gilbert »nd Mr. Harper) who had wilhed
to have the detail upon which the principle before them
to be carried into effect. He thought they (hould
fiflt decide upon tlie principle, whether they fhoukl
resort to a power, which had never yet been resorted
to, of railing revenue ;in fa<s), whether a plan of di
reil or indirect laxesthould l)e puri'ued. The dceifion
upon this quellion, he said (hould have no allulion to
the manner of effe<3ing it ; because, if the committee
of the whole did not think it neceflary at this time to
go into a fyitem of dirtfl taxation at aJI, they would
lit determine, and a plan of indiretf taxation ought
immediately to be conlideied. He was therefore
far from willing the resolution to be fefu back to j
the committee of ways and means to have ilie bulinels '
detailed; he would have the abftrajt principle firft de
cided upnVj D. hoped the lentiments of gentle
men would be fully given upon this fubjetl ; for his
own part, if he heard no stronger arguments in favour
of the plan than had been offered, he (hould certainly
be opposed to it.
Mr. W. Smith thought the gentleman last up had
placed the fubje<a on its proper ground. The principle
ought certainly to be firit decided upon. It was ac
knowledged on all hands, Mr S. said, that there was a
deficiency of revenue ; gentlemen who were opposed
to, this plan, fliould therefore substitute some other] in
its place, since reveilue mult be had. It was a good
parliamentary rule, that when a member opposed an
object proposed tor revenue, he (hould propose a sub
stitute. It was ealy, he said, to object to a thing. He
disliked dxe<f\ taxation himfelf, but since there appear
ed no other way of raifmg fufficiently ample funds, he
saw the neceflity of fixing upon this. If gentlemen
would propose any other mode of raifmg the money
wanted, lie /hould be glad to eonfider it. He thought
at any rate, they (hould then determine upon the prin
ciple before any further Iteps were liken in preparing
any plan ; and, if it fhonld appear to be the opinion ot
a majority of the Honfe that, under no conlideration
whatever, a fyflera of dire<st taxation (hould be adopt
ed, there would bean end'ofthe biifinefb & they must
immediately turn their attention to for»e other way of
railing the money requiied ; for his part, he was
afrai'l if they palled over from diredl to indirect tacts
they (hould not cone to any fhinj; effectual.
Mr. Williams was of opinion with the gentleman
from New-Jerl'ey, (the Speaker) that the principle
- 4 fliould then l.e determined upon ; iiecaufe to lento the
I resolution back, in order to have apian digested, if it
J fliould evenually be rejeiled, would be an unnecefTary
walte of time. He wilheH gentlemen from every state
would make their observations upon the fubjedl, in or
der that they might determine whether some belter
plan could not be adopted. He thought every fneans I
of indirect taxation (hould be exhausted, before direst
taxes (hould'be resorted to.
Mr, VV» said he did not think with the gentleman
from Pennsylvania ( Mr. Swanwick) that the landed
interefi did not pay their proportion of the present tax
es. The confunters, it was allowed, were th# payers
of taxes ; and until that gcntltman proved that farrrt
t ers did not consume taxable articles, he must not fay
they did not bear their pioportion of the public bur
dens.
It was well observed that our present revenue sys
tem was liable to he deranged by other nations; but
perhaps it might be poflible to adopt some other lyf
tem, which Ihould be more certain, without having
reference to dire£l taies. He could wi(h mercantile
gentlemen would forbear throwing out insinuations
that the landed interest did not pay their quota of the
public txpences ; be believed they were unbounded,
and he was certain they could have no jroodeffc<£l.
For lhe present, he fliould wilh the committee
to rife, and hoped gentlemen would come forward
another day, with their observations on this fuh
jeft, that they might fee if iliey could not hit up
on some plan of raifmg the neceflary supplies, with
out going into the plan of direA taxation.
The committee rose end hid leave to lit again.
REFLECTIONS on AN INVASION.
[Extrafltdfrom the Ami des Leis and the Redafleu .J
Marfha! S xe, who never loft fight of the exam
ple of Catthage, remarked one day to Louis XV.
»nd his minister, '! that England was only to be
conquered in London fend it mtlll be acknow
ledged that the marshal's opinion on political and
military fubjefts wai of great weight and autho
rity.
The most effedhial mode of unmasking the per
fidious, and convincing he fccpticil, is to present
them with acknowledged fa£ts. From a reference
to the ar.nals of hiflory, it appears tha' in the in
terval frum (he reign of Edgar in the tenth cefituiy
to prince Edward, eldefl son of the I'ietendei, 25
*hvalifn« have been attempted at diffetrnt periods
on England, of which ten have been completely
fuectfsful ; auii though the other debaikations
were not attended with ultimate success, yet the I
major part of them were produ£tive of advantages.
It is to be remaiked, that the greater part ofthefe
tnterprifes were partial and negative ; that several
of the print e» and favertigns, under vvhofe auspices
they were undertaken, were destitute of (hips and
troops ; and that circurollances, 011 the other hand,
lince the union of Belgium and the emancipation of
Holland, furnifh Kranee alone with such (ormida
Kle mears of attack aed defence, that the powet of 1
England mnil be annihilated on the event of an
invalid. ' ,
If admiral d'Orvilliers i* 1781, with 66 (hips
of the linr, acqnircd the dominion of the ocean, I
and obliged the Enghfh fleet (hame'ully to retire '
to their ports, v.htch would have been bombarded '
and dcftri.ycd, together wilh the (hips, but (or the *
perfidy of the court, and the known treason of
certain individuals who speculated at that epoch t-
Upon a future revolution j yhat cannot be done by h
a French admiral when h« (hall hate affcmbled in
the diffeient ports of Frai-ce and Holland 12$
(hips of the line, flat-bottomed boats and tran(par>s;
when there (hall be besides an army of 80,000 men f|
in Biitanny and 40,000 in Holland to fec®nd such t ,
an enterprize ? To this must be added the number fa
of malcontents, innovators, Grangers, and emtfTaries
from certain foreign powers, as well as the hope ef v
a convirlfton in Iteland. Yes, fellow-citizens, I w
fay and repeat it, peace is in your hands, if you
know how to profit of the moment, to ttnite all
yaur force, and to attack the Englilh at all points, dj
I will fay more, if Pitt fees the reality M
»of your preparations, he will not certainly expose j 0
himfelf to the fatal lot which is teferved for hrm,
»nd he will hasten to demand peace from yon at any a<
1 rice. The eloquent speech of the honorable Fox
E raves1 boch the ftta and the fecblcncfi ef the Eng
& mini iter. ai
• 1
|tf- St-veral defeents on England have formerly beet)
1 ' fuccefsful, although attempted with feeble means ;
:ie .ailtire ot some others is to be accounted for
n lather by the badness of the manoeuvres and the
weakuefs of the aflailants, than by any other cause,
i t ; which inspire fears far the fuceefs of an en
c<i ierpriz.*, which mijht be supported by the whole
li- force of all the maritime powers, and by 80 or
n> 100,000 men
t0 It mult be remarked besides, that there is a great
difference Kemeen the present war of liberty and
j tl former party wars The embassy of the Eaglifh
ht . tninifter, whose real object is known, ought not to
re tufpend the labors of the government on this head
to —prudence does riot permit us to give, at this ma
,s ment, other details ; but we invite th* Diredtory
e " to infpeft the charts and fubfime plan of the late
j Count de Btoglio, who died ij years ago at Ro-
Jr chelle ; the wifdorn ef the government will enable
|y them to make such alterations as the circumftancei
of the times render neceflary. [[.on. Courier.]
id '
c a Philadelphia,
d
j ' FRIDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY j, 1797.
n
'e STOCKS.
r- Six par Cent. - - .... I(^4
ie Three per Cent. ------ - j/5
n 4 1 per Cent. - -
y oer Cent. - -- -- ...
it Deferred Six per Cent. .... 12/4
i- BANK United States, ... liperct
g Pdiinfylvania, ... . 13 do.
—— North \merica, .... 40 do,
n (nfurancc Oomp. N. A. (hares, - nj per et.
Pentifylv par
COURSI-. OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 36 days, 6j l-t
s at 60 days, 6a
, at 90 days, S7
Amfttrdani, 60 days, per guilder. 40
1 90 days, 4J
5 In the Afternoon of Sunday next, a dilcourfe will be
' delivered iu St. Paul's Church, referring lo the late
1 melancholy events by fire at Mr. Andrew Broivn'j.
: '
gy A "slated meeting of the Phifofopliical Society wil'
r be held at their Mall at 6 e'clock I'his Evening,
s
' The night before lafl a young man by the name of
Joseph Lowrey. fell from the upper part of a Houi'e in
' South Secrnd-Sreet, and broke one of his legs and one
' of his aims. He wis carried to the hospital, and ap
' pears to be in a fair way of recovery.
F«r the Gazette or the United Statis.
r
NEW THEATRE.
ON WEDNESDAY ite historical play of Co'.um
t bus, or 1 World Difcoveted, was performed for the
- second time, to 1 most crowded audience.
; The managers are entitled to. great praise for bring
: ing forward this play in such a grand (tile as hey have
1 done. The (c«nery, &c. does high honor to the res
• peitive artists who executed them : no expence, or ex
, ertion, seems to have been wanting to make the proces
sions pageants, &c. worthy of observation ; and we
; dott'fmot t»U 1 the Irouole of the manager* will tie am
) ply repaid by having a crowded house every night it is
performed.
Mr. Cooper's Columbus was a very chaste piece of
ailing: he has been censured for over ailing ; but we
• observe that his performance is improv«d
in this particular, and we doubt not, but in a Ihort rime,
. he will be considered as an actor of tbe firft reputation,
at leaf! his performances fairly promise it.
Mr. Moreton played the feeling, gallant Alonzo with
Ereat sensibility The admirers of this gentleman (anil
] w« confefs ourselves to be of that number) have obser
ved with pleasure the rapid improvements that he has
- made within these two years, and we are of opinion
. that his performance this I'eafon, furpafTes all hn for
t mer exhibitions : the exquisite adting of mrs. Merry
probahly has called f i rth some of that dormant genius
j that before had dept. We notice that he is p | ay
. to mrs. Merry's Belvideta, and we doubt not '
but Ins performance will be excellent. It was general
ly acknowledged, that he failed in that character two
• years ago ; but thoTe who crnfured hi. performance
t ought to have been informed, that his failure was not
; owing to his want of genius, hut want <>f fludv, «"
. the tragedy never was rehearsed : this was%fufTicient
t apology foj^him.
■ n M ,'' loX ,' B entit,ed to P rlire fer hia performance of
' Koldan. e are happy to .-bfcrve that he di<j not this
evening pay more attention to the audience than to his
pan, as he sometimes does. An aitor ought not to
1 appear eonfcious ot the company of the andience
. I rn.l, h ur. to keep his eyes upon them during the per
formance : tis an odious habit, and we fl-iter ourselves
, hi has leen it so, and will pra£tire it no more
Mr. Wignell was iisdeed the vociferous, brave, eood
hearted Englllhman, in Harry Heibert : we have never !
1 iceii him play more nataraliy.
i A ." thofc wil ° have fce " mr - Harwood perform Dr '
Lenitive, &c. will give us credit when we afifure them
■ that in Dr. Dolores he was ex.ellent. His perform- I
anee, in company with that lacetinas aaor mr Francis '
■ in the character of Biibon, set the whole house in a
! roar. , ]
Mr. Warren was very refpeflable in Orozimbo, as •
was also mr. L tftrange in Solali o.
We are confident that the deep attestion' that was ]
paid to the performance of the charming mrs. Merrv
mult have been more flattering to her than tK loudest '
plaudits that could have been beftowsd ; for our own '
part We must confefs, that while (he was playing Cora 1
we forgot we were in a theatre ;we forgot the accom (
phfhed adtrefs, and beheld only the charming Indian I
maid that was to b* devoted to the facrifice. In short
her aflmg was so truly excelient, that it could defy the
fevcreft c riticifm. '
Mrs. Francis was very lively and spirited in Nelti • *
we have faldom seen her perform with greater ease thaa 0
(he did on Wednesday. Her coquetry as imitated v
from the defeription given her by Harry Herbert was fl
truly diverting, and seemed to give the audien.e entire o
fatisfaclion.
We ourselves confefs that it is more giatifyine to
view ladies as fair as the graces, than India,, women !
without anjrof the feminine graces that adorn the En
ropean beauties; but we would «(k if it is natural ? n
Ought net the ladies to have exhibited at lead in their w
diajfs some affinity to the Indian customs ? 'Tis true the C
d??(s of mrs. Francis was charatftereftie, but if ma a
Merry had left out the golden itar that adorn'd her bo- k.
lorn, fhc might have u<fled Sophia in the " Road to
Kuin," &c. &c. and the dress would have been more
adapted for tbeir representation then that of Cora.
The only .apology we have to offer for the length of m
of this criticism is } that ths performance of so celebra- 01
ted a play as Columbus ought io be entitled to some *t
nonet, and wuie paattulariy fj, when at the fame si
/
trn we endeavor to express our approbation of the liberal!-
, . ty and taste ot the managers, together with th e merite
t»r rlo ! J ' exertions of the performers in its representation
'e OCCAS IONA.L PROLOGUE
n ] To the Play of, COLUMBUS.
le Spoken by Mr- Wignell at tbe New-Theatre,
To night our fcettic fi<s\ion fhsll di'play
The earl left dawn of that eventful day,
at t 1 e u firft the bold Columbus hither brought
Thelparksof reason and the germ of thought.
, True to hispurpole, emulous to bless,
(h He forni'd a chart of human happinejt ;
A n<l obedienue to what heaven delign'd,
,d Gave a new world in mercy to mankind.
} 1 lien ( urope's worthielt sons in clans appear'd,
And (haied the bounties of this land rever'dt
Rescued from pride, severity and itnfe,
At once a nation Jlarteri into life;
'' Admiring nature trlumph'd to behold
ie An in'ant Phoenix rising from the old.
IS Yet lingering evil still their peace deftroy'd,
And evVy folate was but halfenjoy'd,
For in (hole aues, fuptrftitron dire,
R Shook her red torch with unrelenting if.e,
Wiehled her horrid axe, and at each b!o\*,
Laid in the dust fomc struggling virtue low ;
Till liberty, majeftie angel ! came,
T'o charm, to rouze, to feften, and reclaim j
She ehas.'cf the dreadful demon from her fight,
And poured on all a vivifying light;
Raised hcrceleftial Itandard high and swore
Here (he would live, till time (hould be no more.
" The rigid law of unities—the bard,
" In this night's drama ventures to discard ;
"If here he errs—he errs with hun, » hose namt,
" Stands without rival in the rellxif fame ;
" Him—whi.m the passions own with one accord
:t " Their great dilator—and delpotic lord !
" Who plac'd aloft on intpiration's throne
" Made fancy's magic kingdom—all liit own,
" Burst rroin the trammels which his muse canfin'd
" And pour'd the wealth of his exhaultlefc mind :
" 1 hough Shakelpeart's flight no mortal may purfwe.
" Yet (hall our theme, when patronized by you,
" To,preat Columbus' fame—bid time be jnft,
" And his own world, yield laurels for his bust.
The lines marked by inverted commas are from
the original prologue, spoken in London.
- ABSALOM.
The cbsrafter of thit young man, notwithftand
injr his affability, it as difagrceable to meat it wat
1 to Joab. 1 hat« a diforganizer, if his person be
ever lo goodly, or hit hair ever so loug. But if
Abfalam kad been a Frenchman ar.d polled his lux
f urialit locks, it would not have saved him ; there
: would have been his head left for a clip of the guil
lotine. After the flulh of popularity is over, a
Jacobin Jew and a Jacobin Marat fufTer alike, and
prove the madneft of revelution. Alifalom wat a
man of the people ; and it may be easily imagined
tliat the fifty men, who run before him, were all
good Patriots. (Eajiern paper.)
From the Farmer's Wsbult Museum.
" For the workmen is worthy of his meat."
TF there be such a personage as Truth, this as
fertinn certainly belongs to her family, for what
can be more just, than tl>ar a vintager (hould eat
fonric at lea(t us those grapes, which he had planted
and watered.
But, judging from the pra&ice of the world,
at ihe piefei't tinw, ouc w>>u!d think my text was
grown oLfolete and that its principle was unrecog
nized. In the (hamhlet there is always meat e
nouj;h, hut how little is bestowed U| on workmen ?
P;ir»lites, buffoons, fiddlers, equeftriant, French
philofophert and fpeculatort gormandize ; but • I
fee Merit, that excellent workman that needeth not
to as lank and as lean, as my old tabby
cat, who hat bad nothing t» eat but chuteh mice
for a year.
1 hough 1 am not fainted a brother, bv any legi
timate paifoM, and belong to no miniilerial affbeia
tion on earth, yet 1 cherish great tefpect, and feel
a cordial regard for the established cler«y. I consi
der tliem, with few exceptions, as faithful work
men ; they make us monl, they inllruft our yo»th,
they lead sober and peacesble lives,
" Along the cool,.fequeftcred vale of life,
( ' c "1 hey keep the noiseless tenor of their way."
They are wife, ihey are amiable men. I wish 1
could speak half so fervently in praise of a.iother
learned profeffion. But, though they are ignorant
of foolifh questions and " drivings about the la<w,"
thej underlland perfe&ly the great lules of life.
Such men, therefore, are worthy of their meat,
and (hould be liberally provided. They labour
much, few mea labor nnore ; they are compelled
to exercise not only the head, but the hands. The
private farm as well as the goipel vineyard claims
I their eare. When the drudgery of the year it
done ; when nurrerotis sermons have been com
posed, and numerous lick chambers visited, when
j they have been in watchings and weaiintfg often,
1 what meat wiil the benevolence of a pari Hi bestow ?
Verily a morsel. A beggarly pittance called a fa-
Wy, and that pittance scantily and grudgingly paid.
—When I visit a village covcied with (lores and
fhsps, and cultivated by opulent farmers when 1
hear the inhabitants boall of their tlourifhing «ir
enmftances, and recount how many bulhels of wheat
they threftied lafl year, and how well it fold, If 1
(hould be informed that theii parson's annual sti
pend is bat sixty pounds, in despite u( all their
beaded ricfies and oltentetion 1 (hould think them
unvvouhy to enter a church.
If I (hould repair to any place, where mca con
gregate and describe to them one, who, in an hour
of jeopardy had quilted his hearth, travelled many
weartfome miles, been cxpofed to sickly air, been
(hot at for hours, and frequently without a crust
or a draught to fupplj the wade of nature : If I
(hould add that all this peril was fudaineii that we j
at home Blight live in fecurily, n«i one of my au c
dteace, pro', ided fpeculatort and blood-fuckers were 1
not of the number, would deny that the eldSol'dier
was a worthy Workman. But where is his meat ?
Oh, my good Sir, do not propose that queltion in
a Republic ; you know that a Republic it never 1
bounteous. Belifariufes q/i for thtir obolus here, 1
as well as at But here the business ends. v
They receive in Great Britain and elsewhere. You '
might as soon expefi moderation in a Frenchman. '
or knowledge of the Belles Lettres in a couutty 1
attorney, at (hat a commonwealth (honld be urate- I
fttL The LAY P.tEACHER.
'■ ' Front a late paper.
0 Mr. Burke, still retaining his hatred to the nei*
" order of things in France, has determined to pub.
!ijh immediately hi* lettert> en a regicidepeace, which
are now advertifcd.
A« soon as the advertisement appeared of our
modern Don Quixote's new pamphlet, an »xp>e(s
wat sent off to Dr. Willis. The answer was, that
he does not undertake any cafe which belds out r:»
prufpeft of a cure !
We are informed that the mod aoble the duke
of Northunnbcrland) in 41l the new icfcfet he now
grants to his tenants on large farms, makes a refnve
of the cottages, which he now lets lo the induf
tiieus labouiert, and to each of them adds fufficient
ground for the support of a cow, aid the growth of
a neceflary quantity of potatoes for the fuppo't of
their families ; thereby rendering the labourer iu
dependent of the opulent farmer, and affbrdirtg
them an opportunity of bringing the fruits of hit
labour to a fair market. It has been too much the
custom of this country to include the cottages io
the general lease of the farm, and thereby keep the
induftrions labourer pcrfeAly independent on the
farmer. We canaot help recommending to tke
confederation, and consequent imitation, of all
great landholders, the llluftriout example of that
truly patriotic nobleman, of whose very liberal and
philanthropic principles we are frequently fupplicd
with new and abundant proofs.
The hydrophobia si me lime Itnce appeared a
mongst the hounds of Colonel Rolleftou neat Rof
crea ; one of them bit ad aft, which almost imioe
diate became mad, and after bitiagr a very fine'
mare, daflied itfelf againtt a wall, ljywhich.it wat
destroyed. The infeAion communicated to the
mare, was not less rapid in its progress ; the ani
mal became univerfaliy convulsed, bit at every thing,
. and after running furioufly about, sprung into &
river covered with sedge, wkrre several persons, ig
norant of the cause, ran to affill her, but fmm
whence (he got out without biting any of the pe«.
1 pie, and with * madness scarce conceivable, plung
ed iatu a pit, where die was dashed to pieces. Soon
as the infection became visible among!! the hounds,
Colonel Rulleflon had them tied up Separately,
where those diseased refufed food, and at Silt ap
-1 peared wholly occupied in catching flies. In a tew
■ days the disorder eairied off 21 of the dogs, when
it was intimated that ribwottb, or rib grass, would
prevent and eure the disease. Actable fpoorful of
the juice wag immediately adminiflered to each do-r
and repeated mornings and evenings, befideg a
good dtal chopped in their food j and though feme
of tli m appeared to be inferred, five weeks had
elapsed without the loft of a single dog, all of
whom appear to be perfe&ly re-ellablifhed.
WILMINGTON, (N. C.) Jan. n.
On Friday last the Court for the trial of three
of the crew French privateer La
for the murder of an Ameiican sailor, adjourned ;
the Jury having on Thursday brought in their ver
di£l —Not guilty.
'"Capt. Stephen Cormiek, in the fckoooer kark
Anthony, arrived here on Fridty last, in 8 dayt
fium New Providence, informs, thai whi.e he lay
there the Britifhcruifers brought in from 12 to 14
valuable Spanilb prixet, which were condemned /
and fold.
CAZETTt or T*l UNITED STHTMS
MARINE LIST.
Phi!detpbia, February j.
The (hips Sampson, and Hare from Loadun t
are hourly expefled at New-York—they were t*
fail about lit December.
The fchr Expedition from this port to Falmouth
put into Martinique in diftreft, xift December .
Ship Fidelity, of Baltimore from Hamburgh, it
also arrived at Martinique in diltiefs.
The fl»ip Ganges of Boston it captured and fsnt
into Fort Jloyal, Martinique,— the Grand Turk
of New-Yotk it also taken and sent int« St. Kitt't,
Dec. 28th, both from the Isle of France. Capt.
Crane arrived forae da\s lince, brings the above
account.
A large (hip and schooner were seen at Reedy
Island, yesterday morning, coming up the bay.
Ten fail of inward bound veflelt were at the
island, among theitt ibe Columbia, Mason* from
Amftsrdam.
Tbe Fajlern Mail it not arrived.
50 Dollari Reward.
LOST, last evening, between eight and nine o'clock,
as the subscriber was going to his house at the Fall* of
Schuylkill, from the house of hit father-in-law, Mr.
Frsncu Stewart, in Stigar-aliey, between Sixth and Se
venth-streets, above Market-street,
A black POCKET-BOOK*
Containing 1190 Dollars, in Bank-Notes
From 5 to too Dollars each,
One of which was of the Branch-Bank of New-York,
and several papers, such as receipts and orders.-Lfhe*
road the subscriber fook, was the Falls road, trolling at
the Upper Ferry.
Whoever finds the above Pocket-Book, and returns it
tq the subscriber at the Falls, or to his father-in-law,
mr. Stewart, living in Sugar Alley, lhall be entitled to
the above reward, paid by
JAMES HAFFY.
F«h- 3- §•
Philadelphia £nd Lancaster Turnpike
Company,
January 6, 1797.
At a meeting of the President and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollars per (hare, was declared for the
last half year, which will be paid ft) the Stockholders,
or tlteir representatives any time after the »1 ft of thia
month.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
J 4 "* ia\*4w
T THE SUBSCRIBER ~.
WISHES to afcertaia, whether acertaiu edwaUd
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland i*i 1783, or 1784, and came into
this Country, ('tis supposed to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of thehigheft importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. jlj, High-llroet
Dtctrabcrjx. w&f*«uFor. Sale,
At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
United States, ««
A FEW COPIES OF _ g t
" An account of the Receipts and w
Expenditures of the United States, for the yea* 1795'
Tanuary 28, 1797- _ — '
PRINTERS
Who have insetted Advcrtiferaents at the request of the
Editor of this Paper, 11 e defired'to forward their accounts.
janmry y * 1
WATCH LOST
LOST, »n monday last, a silver stop Watch, makers
nan Yes, " Hscxhurft and Doult, New-York, 809 ,
on the face, hour-hand in a small circle ; th? imnuM-haiid
revolving in a larger. Whoever has found, and will re
turn the lame to James Edge*., comer of Second and
Catherine Streets, lhall raccivte 10 Dollars reward. 1. of
fered for sale it is requelted it may be stopped.
January 30 4t
Houses and Lots for sale, _
BY the Subscriber, ill the rown <if Wei!-Charter, Ches
ter county,'2s miles from Philadelphia, on the great t j
ftatc-road, leading Westward- Viz. No. I. A two-story
Stone Uoufe, the corner of Higlva'id Gay Jtreets, 40 feet g
front by 34 feet deep, including a very convenient (lore
touie : the House contains ten well finifhed rooms, a kit
chen and entry : the Lot is 144 feet front on Gay-street,
«_equal to any stand in West-Chester. No. i. A two-fto-
ry stone house adjoining. *1 feetfroftt, containing eleven
well-finilhed rooms, both being ceiled in the garrets, house
l tnd lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c. cellars
under both houses, with good stables on the lots, 'l'hefe
Houses are alnroft new, done" by good workmen, in a
maiterly mann«r. No. 3* A -°' -* 1 f eet front. No. 4,
34 feet. No- 5, 44 fe«- No - "9 «" 6f t 1 " 111
ten reds deep. On two of the above are erected three log d
2nd frame houses, two stories high, cellars under the 1
whole, and a small liable to each- t
The above Lots are situated near the Court-Houfe. The t
whole will be exposed to PUBLIC SALE, on the 2ilt and i
aid days of February next, at two o'cloek, when the con- j
ditions will be made' known PoffeOion miy be had the 1
firft of April next. The Title is indisputable.
JOHN KINNARD. j
January »8 t" w 3 w f
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Stiect.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks totbofe gentlemen by whom
-fce has been employed, during his residence \n this City, and
Matters himfelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
obllinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, iu which he ha»
bten consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their futurefavors and receminendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his fpaeious and commodious premises, eretbed for the
purposes above described are open for the reception of pupils (
of either sex, who wilhlo beinflrudtcd in the Art of Riding, i
and the light method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are Ihut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all thole beauties of aaion which providence has so bounti
fully beflowed on them. .
Also, at hishofpital, every dtloHer to which the horle is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of thc*»JOve institution has never bcenqneltion
sd, that it has long been wanted id this city, every geHtl«man's
stud will manileft, and T. Swann as the Hiik eltai.lilher of
the veterinary art, fohcits and lelies upon the fuppoitofihat
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
bring it to perfe&ion. The idea of a fubfcnption for that
purpose has beeu himed by fevetal gentleman, who wilh to
■promote the inftitution —the amount of each fubfcnption to
be returned by services in any of the departments he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges (laud in his hand bill. Such
fabfeription isnoW open, and the fignaturcsof many refpe£fc
able gentlemen already obraintd. He thereiore informs bis
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he (hall in a few days take
the liberty of waitiug upon them aitd folicking their support
and protection. :
N. B. Horses are properly prepared tor th®le Ladies and
•Gentlcmenwho wilh to be inllrudled.
Nov. 5; ___ » h&f -
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJircet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extenftve alTortment of the
Mod Fctfhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, suitable for the season. t
At this shop Gentlemen can be furniftied withthe best
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and nWt
Falhionable manner, and «n the fhortcfl notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
■punctual attention, to them.
November 10. ws
Bank of Pennfylvaiiia,
January 4, 1797-
At a meeting of thc Dirc&ors this day, a dividend of
lixteen dollars on each shire was declared tor the last
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the l 4 th jq NATHAN SMITH, Calhisr.
3- !!iL_
Samuel Richardet (
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CHTY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Phi'&Seljhia.
The Subscription Room will be furmlhed with all the
daily papers publiflied in Philadelphia, N:w-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citi«s of Europe—Tkcy wili be regularly bled
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual reireiameßts,
-vrill at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated With
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors from London and other brewerios.
The Larder Will befupplied wi& the prime and earliest
productions of the Scafon. ,
Larec and small Parties, 01 Ergle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with BreaHalls Dinners, or Suppcfs, at
tours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation -,s
regularly kspt for co'nveniency, the Billof Fare te be had
The^Ledging Koorns will be completely furniftied, and
the utrnoft attention paid to tleanlinefs, and every other
Rich ARDET will behappy to receive, and
execute the command* of his Fri- nds, and the Public at
i ar „e- abd with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfe'lf that nothing 011 his part fhallbe wanting to pre
fer ve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
jnely iionored. i
April 19.
Canal No. 11. F
Scheme t)f a Lottery, authorized by an '
"An ads to enable the Prendent and i»lanageis of the
Schuylkill and Sulquehannah navigation, to rails, by
way of Lattery, the sum of Four Hundred Thoufaml
Dollars, for the purpose oji completing the works, in
their *c\s of incorporation mentioned."
Dcllars
1 Prize of twenty thousand dollars, so,ooo f
j of ten thousand dollars, 10,^00"
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
~be paid to the possessors of the five
numbers nrit out of the wheel on the lift
day's drawing, at which time there lball
not be less than 500 numbers undrawn, ao.aoo F
xo of two thousand dollars 20,000
jo of one thousand dollars each, ao,ooo
of live hundreddellars each, »i,Joo
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,000
100 of one hundred dollars each, io,ooo
220 of fifty dollars eac'n, 11,000
29,500 of live dollars each, I47>s°°
(jo,ceo Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time offjle.
All prizes shall be paid ten days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of the polfefibr ol a fortunate
ticket, fubjecl to a deduction of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12 months
after the Drawing is finifhed, of which public notice
will be given, shall be conlidercd as relinquillied lor
the use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the Prelident and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehauna Cdnal Navigation—and
the Prelident and Managers oi the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
Relnlved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan- j
dish Forde, Francis Weft, Jaraes M'Crea, John Mil- £
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and direst the mode of dnpoung of the
tickets ; which committee shall deposit the money in .
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o- .
pened for the Lottery. '
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16,'97,
Rcfolved, That the committee tor conducing the
Lottery be dire<sldd to commence the, drawing on the ;
firft day of March next.
Extract from the minutes,
We. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball, 1
John Stiinmetz,
Sttandijh Forde, |
Francis Wejl, Managers.
James M'Crea,
Johu Miller, jun.
1 IVilliam Montgomery,
Jan. 20. th& f.tf
Cicy of Walhington.
: SCHEME oft he LOTTERY, No. 11,
- fOH THE. II.IPROVI.MtM 0 e THE
[ FEDERAL CITY.
1 A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & / 9Q9
' dwelling-houfa, 5 cash 30,000, are >
' I ditto 15,000 & cafli 25,00 a <0,000
I ditto 15,q00 & calh 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 20,000
l ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I cash prize of lo,oO»
» » do. 5,000 cach, are • 10,000
f 10 do. i,eoo - - 10,000
lt 20 do. 500 - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
aoo do. 50 - - 10,000
0 400 do. »5 - 10,000
s> 1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
h 15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
t-
ls *6,739 Prizes.
" 3Jj26i Blanks.
" 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those *ho may take a quantity of
Tickcts, the prize of 40,000 dollars will bethe last draws ;
ticket, anjlthe 30,ooothe last but out :
And approved notes, securing payment m either monsy i
or prizes, in ten days after drawir>g, will be reseived foi
any number not less than 30 tickets.
is This Lottery will afford an elegant fpeeimen of the pri
t, vate buildings to be ertAed in the City of Walhington^—
Two beautiful designs are already ieleiled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from tfaeie prawingi
it is proposed to erect two centre and four corner building- ,
as soon as pofTible after this lottery is fold, and to convey j
. theni, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
X the manner described in the fcieme for the Hotel Lottery.
, A nett deduction of five per eent. will be made to defray
'' the necelTary expenses of printing, the fur-plus
will be made a part of the fundintended for the N«tianal
Umverfity, to be erecled within the city of Wafhii4gton.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will bepayablffin thirty days
after it is finifhed ; and any prize; for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
f drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
3 [! vhe fun J for the Univcrfity ;it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as fccurity.
The real fecurit,es given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the Prefideut and two Direelors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
~ mount of the lottery.
, The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
•n the late Commilfioners aflifled in the management of the
Y Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
ic 1 feconc! time on behalf ©f the public ; a Sufficient num
tit of these having kindly accepted.it is hoped that the
le iends to a National University and the other federal ob
,f. jeitsmaj continue to favor the delign.
n- By accounts received from the dulerent parti of the
id Continettt as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are auured that the
ty drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
ts, caation unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
tlu tickets, has rendered the fnorr suspension indifpenfabU,
th SAMUEL HLODCET.
'ft «§• Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ;of
as. James Weft &Co. Baltimore iof Peter Oilman, Boiton ;
eft of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and 0/ Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. *0
at A Quantity of Brandy,
■? ' FIRST & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipft
n{! Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases -of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in |)ints and half-pints
ni j Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes
at Hazlenuts, in faeks
S es' Whiting
£
i k Spanish Brown J
f For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
Elegant Bruffsls & Turkey Carpeting,
For falc by George Dobfon, N6. 25, South Third-fircet.
Deseuiber 15. dtf in a
on ;
By Authority.
• a sou
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKB.XjRN, No. 64,
South SecondJireet. An
SCHEME of I LOTTERY, (
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agieiably to an A3 ol
the Legiflaiure of Pennfylvaaia, paffcd during the tail
feifion, for bjilding a Stone Bridge o»er the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, iu the County of
Berks. Dollar!. 1
1 Prise of 20,000 Dollan . ao.ooo
, do. of 10,000 do. - - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. ... 1,5,000 kjj,
4 do. of 2,000 da. - • 8,000 r j c
»o do. of t.ooo do. ... 80,000
39 do. of 500 do. ... >9,500
80 do. of 200 do. . . . 10,000 ""
too ilo. of 100 do. . *0,000 tlx
300 do. of £0 db. - 15,000 pu
1 do. of 500 'o to be paid the Q ma
for f the firft drawn no. $ " a I
t do. of 3,000 do. to be paid polfeffors > aui
of the fi»e lall drawn no» > *' ra |
9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000 oy
——— q U
10,054 Prizes 300,000 :»
.19,946 blanks ' "
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars jjoo,ooo ™""
All Prirts shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
fiiri (bed, upon the demand of a pofleflor of a fortunate
jicket, fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twenty per sent. The Pr
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickcts arc oifpofcd
of, cr perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kcrjbr.cr, IVidiani IVitman, p
Joseph Hiejler, James Diemer, ' Thomas Dundat,
James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graeff, w ,
Selafiian Miller, Commissioners. m
Reading, May the 9th, 1796- til
Tickets 111 the Canal Lottery, No. 1, to be had at the
above office, where the eariitft information of the draw t |,
ing of th -Washington Np. a, an.i Patterfon Lottery s, -j
arc received, and check books for examina*. ion and regif J
tering are kept. . m
Tickets iu the above Lottery toba had at Mr, Sheri
dan's Raee-ftreet, John Hay, North Third-ftreot and £h
Henry Sw;yer'=, German Town. w
January 16 ' tawtf [,)
For Sale, th
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET, o,
: Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels w
and half barrels ]t
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
SmOalied Herring in barrels and kegs J '
, Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or finglc one 1
Dry Codfifh, ftom one to fifty kentalt
Fine and coarse Salt c
No\.a-Scotiaand French Plaster of Paris, iu the Rone °
and ground, for manure and stucco-work *'
December i c
CAMILLA, u
Or A Pidtyre of Youth. si
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com- r<
.prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable P
on delivery —Printed at New-Yoik, l)y Mr. John *
Bull. ' -
CONWi'lOtfS.
I. Kandfome, neat type, perfectly new, is em- °
ploved. . . ,
11. A volume, stitched in blue paper, is intended ''
to be published every 2 weeks, till the five are com- «
pitted ; the firft and lecond are come to hand, and the a
third is hourly expected. Subscriptions are received, 1:
and Books may -be hid of }■ ORMROD, No. 41, 1|
Chei'nut-itrect-
Mrs. (late Miss Burney) the celebrated J;
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
| to add to the laurels she has already acquires" in the
f : literary *'orld. The ilrength of imagination and ele
-8 i place of style, displayed in Evelina and Cecilia, will *
! Efficiently 11 eorpmend to every reader of taste and
[judgment, the perusal of Camilla.
' It r-iay not be improper to add, that of £
England, after having perused this intcrcftim; publi
cation, preltnted Mrs., D'Arblay with a tboufand
~ e pounds sterling, as a testimony of her approbation of :
, s the work.
! TanuoVv a ; co? f
I Lottery and Broker's Office, r
No. 64, -South Second strzst.
y — !
is JACKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
'1 1. Check Book for examination—and prizes p»:d in '
the late lottery.
e Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
r5 the City of Wa&ington, No. 2, and PatteTon Lotteries,
:e both of which >are now drawing—information where
16 tickets are to he had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
ls tickets. A complete Id If of all the prizes in the late New- 1
i- e Port Loag-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for 1
'* examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wi& to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
k Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
Sic. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
* t ' Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
ol falc at Ten Dollirs each, which will be drawn early in
ie the Spring.
k Wn. Blackburn.
, c Philadelphia, January 46, 1797. mth
Thifl is Published,
By Bip'REN & MADAN, at their Printing Office,
:ls No. 77, Dock-street, and fold by the principal
' r " Booksellers in this City.
of The American Annual Register j
1«, Or hiltorical Me.noirs »f the United States, for the
v Year 1796.
of No. 167.
n • DiJlriS of Pinnfylvatiia, to wit :
'I s Be it remembered, that on the 19th day of JaV.uarv
__ . fn the Twenty-firft year of the Independence of the
United States of America, Bioren & Madan of the said
diftrifl have deposited in this Office the title of a Bo6k
the Right whereof they claim as Proprietors in the j
words following to wit:
" The American Annual Regilter, or Historical
" Memoirs of the United States, for the year 1796.
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the
United States entituled " An aifl for .the eneouuge
ment of learning Wy securing the copies of Maps,
Charts and Books, to the authors and pioprietor* of
such copies during the time thereia mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell,
I Clerk Ptfiini'yivauia DiflridL
January 35. iaw4
A Manufa&ory FOR SALE., *"
A valuable SOAP and CANDT.E Manufi&ors, (au&ie
in a convenient part ot Lhc tiiy ; ihc works slmott ncjv,
on an entirely iai cowTtr j&ina, and bu.li of the best ,
materials, ami miv be let to work immediately. Pec font
whowifhto purchale, arc requciied to appiy ai No 273,
vjuch Second Street. September 13. u i u
This Day is Published, .
Br 810 REN and MA DA N,
And to be Sold at their Printing-Ofnce, iu Dock
ftrcet ;■ by M. Carey, No. 118, Markct-ftrert ;
Thomas Bradford, No. 8, South Front-flrcet, and
George Doilglafs, No. i, South Third-street,
(Price, urally bound., tzuo dollars)
AN ENQUIRY r
Concerning Political Justice,
And its Influence on Morals and Happiness,
By William Godwin.
THE .eputation oi this wwrk is already well esta
blished in Europe—lt is hardly necefTary for an Ame
rican editor to lay more than barely to mention, that
the Enquiry concerning Political Justice has ever
since its publication been a favorite performance with
the friends of republican government. The ltile is
pure, nervous, and classical; the ideas are strongly
marked by an original vein of thinking ; and, amongit
a-multitude of other just and striking paflages, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities infepa
rabie from the condition ot a King, i»ay be pointed
out as a most masterly lpecimen of philol'ophical dif
quifition. The latest London edition of this work
fells in this city at four dollars and an half.
January 24 d3tawaw
Porcupine's Gazette.
Proposals by WILLIAM COBBETT, oppolite Christ
Church, Philadelphia, for publishing a news-paper,
to be entitled
Porcupine's Gazette, iff Daily Adveriifer.
Metlunks 1 hear the reader exclaim ; " What! have
we not Gazettes enough already »" Yes, and far tuo
many : hot those that we have, are, in general, con.
duifted in luch a manner that their great number, in.
«rdd of lendering mine unneceflary, i» the only cause
that cdls for.its eftablilhmentv ~—
The gazettes in this country have done it more real in
jury than all its open enemies ever did or can do. They
mislead the poopic-at home and milieprefent them a«<'
broad, 1 It was these vehicles of ledrtion and difccrd
that encouraged the counties in the Weil to rebel ; it
was they that gave rile to the depredation j of Britain,
by exciting the people to such aits of violence against
that nation, as left 110 room to doubt that we were de
termined on svar ; and it was they, when an accom
modation had been happily effedled, that ftirr<ad up an
opposition to it such as has seldom been witifoiTed, and
which was overcome by mere chance. These gazettes
it was, that, by misrepresenting the difpolitions o! the
people, encouraged the French to proceed from one
degree of infslence to another, 'till at last their Mmif
tdr braves. th« President in his chair, and a bullying
commander comes and tells us that his only bulinefs is
to fei*e our vellels, in violation of a treaty, 1(1 virtue
ot which alone he claims a right to enter our ports : and
it is tkel'e gazettes that now have the impudence to de
fend what their falfehood and malice have produced.
J (hall be told that the people are to blame; that
they air not obliged to read these abominable publica*
tions. But they do read them j and thousands who
read thero, read nothisg else. To fupprels them im<-
possible ; they will vomit forth their pdjfon ; it if >pti
-1 vilege of their natures, that no law can abridge ; and
therefore the only mode left is, to cuui,tcrSi£l its efficts.
Tiristnulk *e done, Too," IritKeirown way. Books,
. or periodical publications in the form of books, may
be of some service, but are by no means a match for
I their flying folios. A falfebood that remains uncontra
. difled for a month, begins to be looked upon as a truth,
; and when the dete&ion at last makes its appearance, it
t 1 is often as useless as that of the doilor who finds his
; patient expired. The only method of opposition, then,
is to meet them on their own ground ; to set foot to
foot ; dii'pHte every inch and every hair's breadth;
j fight them at their own weapons, and return them two
, blows for one
; A gazette of this stamp is what I have long wished to
fee, but'l have wiihed and cxpeifled it in vain. li.dig-
I nation at the fupinei)efs of others has at last got the
j better of all diffidence in my own capacity, and has de
termined me to encounter the task. People have h£ar(l
f one fide longeriough ; they (hill now hear the other,
CONDITIONS.
j 1. Porcupine's Gazette (hall be of the usual size,
{ and the fublcription Eight Dollars a year, to be paid at
ihe expiration «f e.v-h half year.
a. Advcrtifements will be inserted at half the usual
- price, which will always be required in ready
3. The Censor, containing those pieces from the
gazette that may appear Worth prefer\r.g in a rr,ore
portable form, with such amplifications and amend
ments as time may give rife to, (hall be publiihcd
month'y, and each fubferiber (hall be entitled to a copy,
delivered with his paper at the end ot the month,
ir 4. If a fufficicnt number of fubfsj'ibcrs be obtained
s the firlt number of the Gazette (ha!! sppear on, or be
.c' fore the sth of March.
n N. B. A subscription book is now open at rriy (hop,
opposite Chrift-c'nurih, whither gentlemtn in the coun
>r try, who wi(h to subscribe, are requested to fend their
names.
ic Sublcriptions are taken at Bo Hon by Mr. James White,
k, bookseller ; at Salem, by Mr. Debeny, peft-jnafter ;
Is, at New-Haven by Mr. Beers, bookseller ; at Newbu
ry.port, by Mr. £. Blunt, book! el lei ; at Ne..'-York,
or by Mr. S. Campbell, bookseller ; at Baltimore, by Mr.
G. Hill, bookseller j at Chester-town, Maryland, by
Mr. v James Arthur, post-master ; at Eafton, do. by
Mi. Greenbury Neal j at Freder ck town, do. by
MeflVs. Isaac and John Mentz; at Richmond, Yirg.
by Messrs. Pritchard and Bavidfon ; at Norfolk, by
Meilrs. Rainbow and Hannah ; and at Charlellon, by
Mr. Young, bookseller.
• e ! Jan. 18. eoiot.
>al _
Clocks and Watches.
he LESLIE aNL» PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Philadelphia}
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, 1 Urge aiTortmcut »f IVA RHANT li D
irv fVA-I'GHESt cenfilting of horizontal, capp'd and
he jewel'd Gold Watches, with feco»ds, of superior
aid workmanship ajid elegance ; a!fo capp'd and jewel'd
16k and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jcwell'd, capp'd,
the fuconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
cal with niirble frames ; eight day and thirty hoar, brafe
works, &c.
the Decemhet 22, 1796. dim
ge " ■ - 1
—
iof PRINTED BY JOHN FEN No|
—No. 119 —
chesnut-strebt.
[PricQ Doli&ts