of tj&c and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1495.]
For Sale,
x "* ' le ant ' ren iarkably faft
Virginia and Philadelphia
too ton?. For terms apply to
Rofs & Simfon.
»»• , dtf
1* or St. Thomas,
. TH£ SHIP
and Mary,
• aJ' Captain Bit tu ;
■'ASfesSss'f WILL fail in ten days. For
freight or passage apply to
F, COPPINGER.
No. 221, South Front fireet,
_ Jung 9- ' diot
For Sale,
7he cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
I.angdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's -wharf,
CONSITIKG OF
514 hhds. of Claret 12-
il? cases of ditto ' U
100 cases of Sweet Oil .-JJ £
It o pipes London proof > £ «
io pipes of Holland ptoof j ERA * By -J w .£
Apply to
Wharton Es* Lewis,
No. us, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
f t ' le Well-Indies or Europe fails
faftj burthen about fifteen hup.
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as abovo.
May H $
For Wilmington, North Carolina,
Benjamin Church, Mqfter,
WILL fail the s6th inft. For
freight or passage apply co the Captain on
board, ar to
feffe Ss 5 Robert Wain.
June 21. §tt6
- For Freight or Charter,
I 'flip* Brig Fame,
5 FRANCIS KNOX, Matter:
A strong, excellent vessel, has been just theathed and
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry t,ooo.bar
rels, has good accommodations so pailengers.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or U
Kearny Wharton. •
Tunc 6. 6p
~ HAY.
A Quantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
be had at Peel Hall Farm on the Wjtfahickon
Road, about a miles from the City.
Also, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
June 8 s6t
FASHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTELLIGENCE TO THE LADIES.
JUST received from London, two trunks of ele
gant BRUNSWICK KID Ladies' Shoes, of the -
most fafhionable patterns and shape now worn in'
that city, arid will be fold off immediately in Imall
quantities, at firft cdft, forcafh, at Mrs. ENEFER's,
•No. 105 Walnut ftrect, between Third and Fourth
iireets.
%• The above was purchased of Mr. Fox, in
Piccadilly) who manufactures for most of the nobi
lity, and will>be warranted good.
_Junej3 ffgt
John Miller, jun. & Co
Have received per the India, AJhmead, from
Calcutta,
A well assorted small Invoice tf
Gurrahs
Baftas
Coffees
Calicoes
Bengal Stripes
Laid in remarkably low, which they will fell for
cash or ftiort credit ou very advantageous terms-
dawfri4th
George Dobfon,
No. ay South Third-Street,
HAS imported per (hips William Penn, Starr,
and Diana, from London,
5-4 Super London Chints, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Mufluicttsajad,Dimity's.
Falhonablc Waiflceatiog, newest patterns. .
Ribbands well afiorted, in small trunks
-4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and British Book-muf
lios
Fancy Cloaths and Caffamiers.l
The whole to he dil'pofed of cheap for Caih
or approved Notes of a ihorr date.
June 14,'97. d.tf.
PUBLIC NOTICE
T S hereby given to those persons, holding notes
X of the fubferiber, that he will renew the
fame, payable in fix years, with legal infereft
fr#m the date hereof; and that notes will be
given as'above to all, who may have open ac
. junts legally authenticated. ,
TIMOTHY MOUNTFORD.
No. 194, S. Second Street.
Philadelphia, June 10, 1797.
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Matket-fireet. I I
MISS CHUTSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that she has received by the ,
William Psnn, a variety of NEW MfL- j
LINERY, See. which she hopes to be able to
Acw them in a few days.
May 18 4 Tnr
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacksof Java Coffee of firft quality
400 half facki do. do.
a few Bowsof Spices, confiding of f
Nutmegs, Cloves aid Mace j
For fa'e by
HILLINGS bf FRANCIS,
IVomftr eet.
May 30 dtf
PUHADFLPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, JU.FE 23, 1797
A Quantity of Brandv,
Ff RST & ad proof, .
; Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4 |h proof, in Hhds
Old tfock, in cases of 40 dozen each
' Gla/s Tumbler.., in pint' and ha.lf-pinrs
Window Glafsj in boxes, ps different liar?
Hazlenuts, in ftrks
Whiting }
Copperas / .
White Lead f
& Spanifl) Brown J
For Sale by
PETBft BLIGHT.
January 4 ft.
Rofs & Simfon,
Haue for Sale,
A QUANTITY OF FRIMF.
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Cherts best
Prtfb Hylon and ) . rc ,„
Hyson Skin { rEAS
Muscovado Sugars in Hqgfbeads, ?pd
Coflee in Tierces
M*rcb 7. j[»f
C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphiaand its vicinity, thafhe
continues to perform all operations on thf Teeth ; sup.
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing—Cleans,
files, regulates, extrafls, and fills decayed teeth wi.h
gold or load, &c. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at their houfcs, and will be happy to re
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
68 north Eighth ftrfcet, or at his house, next 10 the
Black Horse Tavern, on the Frankford road.
... , Dollars,
pealing and cleaning ,
Artificial teeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5
Do. in gold sockets or screws
Natural 1 eeth with ligatures 7
Do. .pji gold or ivory loclceti, pr go Id fcre,w# 1 ©
Filing and cutfing away decay— each decay 1
Filling with gold t
Do. with lead
Eotrafting fto the families who employ him
as dentiflt) t
Do. where not employed %
Tooth powder of his own preparing 1
Brushes, best London manufacture aj cents.
Regulating, See. according to the operation.
* # * C. will fell tbe timeot a Negro
Man ; —he is honest and sober, and has about 3 years
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
J une *5
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jan. & Co.
No. 8 Chtfrmt-Street, I
Have for Sale <
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
ihort credit. j
March 6. §
To be Sold,
A large- and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
SITU \TE at the north-east corner of Arcb and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms- J
and is in every refpeft well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 3f. f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED, ) \
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. j /
No 40 South Second fireet, /
[Price 31 Cents] ,
A Vic%o of the Causes and Con/equen- «
ces of the present War with France. ; \
By the Honorable Thomas Erskiwi. ,
May 15 $ t
WALKER & KENNEDY, J
No. 73, South Front Street,
Have for Sale, ,
Virginia Tobacco, of thr|Kichmond inspect
tion /,
3jo bbls. Virginia' Flour andJMiddlings A
500 bushels Wheat
S calks Ginfang. i
ALSO, "
Three cases Rouens Linens, entitled to the '
drawback '
too pieces Eandannoes, and ''
100 c»dies Irxiia Sewing Siijc. 4
J""< 15- thsw.nt "
Grattan and Comp. a
REfpedfully inform their friends, that they have
imported from London per the Ihip Star, a °J
large of h
PERFUMER T, '
Which is now opened for falc at their Houfe>No. "
19a Market-street.
Also, a new affoituient of ready-made gentle- 1
men's linrn, shirts from 1 dollars each to 8 dollars, f
&c. &c. Sc.*. 1
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging at ten Dollars each.
Those Gentlemen who have their own private r
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only, '
by the week or month.
J""CS 6t
To be fold, /
of a stout hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has upwards of four years to serve. Enquire u
at No. 25, Dock-street.
June 13. dtw '1
Window Glass, (
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than sny other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES, > a
Ftom Bbv 6to by 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be had at the t
S'ore of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front*
street. X
fames C. is? Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia. J-'neq, 1707. Siwmwftf
*or sale, i>
V
A tair of very handsome
Bay Horses, - «
Near fixtcen hand* high, well brpke, and iter-
fesly gentle. Enquire at Mr. Kelson's flablcs,
Church-alley. ri
Also, fur Sale, 11
A Chariot and plated Harness. si
June 13. dxop
By John Fen no, N° 119 Chefnut.Strixi.
PIANO FORTH.
LONGMAN fcf BRODERTP's
ROYAL patent Piano Forte wtit a green
board, an excellent ton»d inftrtyntntV For
file at Mr. Salt«rt, No. 56, S. Fourth Street.
_ J" 1 "" lo - diw
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publilhjng, by # fubfcriptioo, "fhc
Hiflory of Pennfylyania,
TN North-Aijierica, from the r>rigiri>>in(Htutlon and
L fettlcment of that province, under the fitft propri
etor mid governor, William Finn, in i6Bt, 'tiji
after the year 1744; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
RcfpeSing Lifeyof W. PENN,
Priorto iiie grant of that Province, and the reli
ginui Satiety of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES,
m#re particularly ol WEST-NEW-JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES o«i DELA
WARE.
To which is added,
A PRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID J«RO
VINCE.
And of the general lUte, in which it flout iihcd,
i pritseipally between the years 1760 and 1770: The
whole including a varietv of things, ufe(u) and in
terfiling to be known, refpefling that country inearly
- time, &c. With en appendix.
Wfiuen principally betweenthe yeara I7'y6»nd 1780,
By Robert Pkovd.
"Pvkfoum eft benejattre reipublicx, etiam benedicere
. t\aud abjujduin rji, vel pace vel bcllo clarum Juri licet/'
'■ , . c al. Catalin.
' Sea cum plaque arUtrcntur res bclticas niapret eft
1 quam vrianas, mniundacl) hac opinio."
' . /r Cic. Off.
1 I 'F-nUrtd according lo law. J
1 " WILLIAM PENN, thegteat legislator Of the
Quakers, (ip Pcnnfyljrnia) had the luccefs of aeon
queror, in eftabliftiiqg and defending hi* colony, a
iponjg savage tribes, without ever diawingthefword ;
the goodness of the molt benevolent rulfet'J, in trea
ting hulubjefil as hit own children ; and the lendcr
"ii un,v "'»l 'ather, who «pened his artqi to
all mankind without diftiriflion of feii or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but uer
lonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
trie piotcdtio* and emolument of the State"
Kjfcyon Toleration, by Arthur O'Lemry.
CONDJTLONS.
J. This work will be printed in two oflSvo vol- 1
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in (beep and I
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper fimi- (
'/cV" that ° f thf con<i ' UQDS ' " s prilijk'tintkcSuhJcrip- (
H. The head of William Penn, handforoely en
graved, will be prefixed lo the firft, and a map or (
(ketch of Penntylvania, and the pans adjacent,to the
Iccond vplmjie.
Ill* 1 tie priceto fubferibers will be spur doUari 1
and an half in (heep, and five dollars in ca!f| —one '
dollar to be paid at the time of {ubfciibing, two dol- I
on t(je delivery of the (jrft volume, and the re
minder op the delivery erfthefecond. 1
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
or, the work will be Dnt to press and finished with i,
all convenient expedition. "
Subscriptions will he received by Zachaijtb Poul
lon, j un . Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet. andtt the J
ti'ladelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet thy Isaac Col
lins Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New.
*°rk; by John P. Pieifants and George W. FieM,
. erchants. Baltimore; and by other per tons both
ln town and country,
February 18. tuief
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orpbant Court,
■will ahfolutely be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at F
Cranberry, on IVidiufday ,tbe ft jd day nf Augufi next, at
1 1 c'irltci, A M, all that valuable REAL ESTATE, ~
late belonging to the Rev. Gilbert T. Snowden, de'ceafefa,
lyihg in and near Cranberry, iu the county tf Middlesex,
toyvnfhip as South Brunfiuick, Rate of Neiv JerJey, up
on thelciver flage road leading from Philadelphia to New
York. A very elegant frameboufe in a beautiful and
healthy Jituation y ftiitded •white, ivith Ve/idian luitiJo iv
flutters, thirty feet front ar*d thirty eight feet detp, tivo
rooms ivith a bandfome ball or entry on the frfl floor,
tltfc rpoms on the second floor and tivo ivell finifbeJgar- ■
rets. In the rear of tfje bopfe is an excellent frvo-jbry
building 37 feci ly ,19, tonjifling of a dining-room fir f
"vorli people, fpaciou* pu/iU ies and a large kit ivith
every convenience, and over tbefe are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building 18 fiet
front, by 19 feet deep, conftftingof a chamber beloiv and a
library above—under the ivbole are Uiry fine cellars paved Ca
ivith brick and conveniently partitioned. The house is en-
tirely new, built in a modern flyle, and completely and e
legantly finifbed. Every room is hung ivith bells that
lead both to the kitchen and the servants' apartments : there
is a pump of gssd uvateY in the yard: and a forte and
brick pavement round the it/bolc house, itfbich is endof- T
ed ivith a bandfome railing, ivith three gates in front. X
The farm confifs of one hundred andfixty seven acres gc
ivith a proportion of woodland and meadoiv, under excel- , tU
lent fence ; a garden tvitbpale fence ; a large barn, fla- gi
bles, tarriagt-houfe, coiv-houfes, &c. all net*, and built ! w
in tie befl manner : ivitJj tivo Orchards, one of 60 full be
grown trees, the other is young and thriving, conffling of be
ZOO brfl grafted fruit trees. ha
Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland,
of the befl quality, containing 37 acres. Also a traSl of tl
land within seven miles of Cranberry, and I of the Cross
Kpadt, containing one hundred and fifty acres, three-fourths
meadoiv and the red excellent tinker.
This TraSl will be fold in lots on Thursday, tbe 2/\th
day of Augufl following, at II o*clock, AM, on the w
premises if the weather permits, if not at tbe house* of r
Mr. Witberill, Cross Rojds.
For further partiomlars enquire of Nf than if I Hunt,efq.
Cranberry, of A/r. ffaac Snowden,jun. No. 141 South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or tf lUr' Cparles Snojvdcn
Tontine Coffee- ffouf',Neiv York, or of the fubferibers.
ISA AC SNO W DEN,Princeton ~) *. L ,
JACOB FISHER, Cranberry J AJn.,niJlrlUrt
N. B. Phe file of the above property was aavertjzed
for the 14th infl. but the iminiflrators were not able to
get the tivo fepar ate Tracts laid out into Lots, and other H
matters arranged, on account of tbe indifpofitjon of one of <
them, it was therefore adjourned to tbe days above mention
id. §6tmwftf June 19-
Great Philoiophical & Mechanical
Experiments,
To be executed on every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, at sight o'clock in the F.veoijtg, at Mr.
Dancing Room in fourth ltrcet, be
tween Chefnur and Walnut 11 recta
Tie force of Hercutct is surpassed by artificial Fr
Men. fit
Tbe parfc&ioo of natural philolophy by an arti- th
ficial Lady. nu
This adroit and graceful l ady, will commence ve
her philosophic experiments by firing the cannon of dil
Volts. an
She will nvelt metal by her fiery breath after- CI
ward< direct tbe eledric fire on a fmali House, and f»i
deilroy it. ipi
Shs will blow nut of her m*uth fla(het of fire cd
representing flaming (Lars, and finally conclude ve
the experiment by surprising feats, by a' Angle du
pistol shot, (he will kill a bird pprshing in front of fel
! the theatre. ' ihi
June 19 eod*3t.
Notice is hereby given,
THA r a procefflftn will be on Saturday next,
the 14th of June, to o'clock in the raorn
.... ' n £» °t Aneient Ysrk Maforts, African Lodgf
No. 44. The Prethren arc requefied to attend
the Same. Sermon at li o'clock, by the R#v.
Brother A. JoNts.
By order of the R. W. Grand Master,
P. M. NIXON.
Petir Richmond, Secretary. s
June ' * Jt
e —— _____
t, Samuel & Miers F'ifher,
ld No. 27, Dock-street,
■j; Have jUJI received per Abigail, Babatet, from
Belfast,
IRISH Cambricks, in boxes of 40 pieces
and 80 patches, each sorted up tci g/~
£ sterling per yard.
S, They have also received
ie 7-8 & 4-4 Irifli Linens well aflbrted
u Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be foTd for ready money, or (hort
). credit, on moderate terms j together with
a general aflortment of Spring Goods as
'• usual—Also,
Hunter's Pipes in boxes
y An afTortment of Queens' W<*c in crates
An afTortment of GTafs Ware in caflcs and
>' crates
e T. Crowley, Milfington, Steel
Cargo & London particular Teneriffe Wines
Li(bon Wine of excellent quality >
' e Superior Sherry Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales fine Cloths neatly afTorX
t ed, a*d two bales assorted Flannels, to be 1
• fold per package. 1
. Just g. 3taw 6w '
fror Sale,
( At the Ofjice ot the Gazette of the United i
, States, No. 119, Chefnut-llreet, 1
■ The last Report of the late Secretary
\ of the Treasury ; being a brief hiilory of tbe
slate of finariLial i-oftcerns of the United States. 1
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpeiliug the western in- a
furre&ion : Containing maDy fatils and
cumltances no where eUe to be found, jo s
cents. . j
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to <
our,minifter in France. 371-1 cents. c
An Account of the Receipts and s
Expenditures of the United States fqr the year 1
1795- c
A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be .
had to complete setts.
D J lvernois' account of the Revo- §
lution in Geneva. i-» cents. v
This Day is Published, ~
Aud fold by H. &/. jun. No. f,
24, North Third-street, also, by Mr. Hev-
*r SffiTZER, No. 85, Race-fireet, d '
: (Price half a Dollar neatly bound) u
The Man of real Senfibihty jo
Or, The HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISON. a
Founicd.cn Fail.
The elegant Edition of thc Elementsqf Moral-
two vols, iljuftrated with twenty copper- f {
plates, iriay also be had as ajjpve, price, fall bound
and gilt, two dollats and, fifty cents.
H«.I. K jtfnrs. have oq hand ja quantity of No. i
and 2 Writing Paper.
Valuable Public Document. I
7'HIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And -for Sale
At the Office of.the Editor oftbe Gazette of the
United States,
'No 119 C hefnut-St reet,
l*MC* JTOLLAR AND riTTT. CENTS]
fL. FEW" COfUS OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures .
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For (he Year 1795, —
Being the 1-At.ist Peiiotl to which an account
can be made up.
February »i. §. Hr
Maurice Moynihan, o
No. 81, Ntrlh Secondfireet,
A few doors above Arch-ft reet,
INFORMS his frieAds and the public, that he ht9
for whojefjleor retail, on the lowell terms, a
geneol assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumbjers, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint,
gill and half gill do. exaift measures, decanters and
wine glasses ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and chi a in set* and separate ; pocket
botUes: Schuyikill and Jeriey country quart and G;
half gallon bottles ; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the fhortefl no
tice-
May 11. dtf
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from bufiftefs, Invites all
who have any noie, bill, bond or acceptance
of bis, now due, to call for payment ; aud those
who wish to anticipate may receive the taoney
at a reasonable discount.
JAMES SWAN.
May %i. daw.
DorchelLr, nearßoDo/!, i6th May 1797.
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have for sale at theirJ lore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer &" Son, Pine fireet Wharf, 1
AQtunmyo,
Madeira vvmes ci»
In pipe* and hjlf pipes
adeira jValnutsand.Citron. lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Alfi,
• 1$ Puncheons, second and third proof, Weft- L
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Braiidy
They have conflantly on hand and for sale, y
French Burr and Coun'ry Mill Stznr, of various J
flies, and a general altortment of BoMiig Cletb: ol r
the best quality, both American and Foreign ma- „f
nufa-Sure. The former baying proved, from fe. n—
veral years experience of a number of millers id
different parts of the United States at lead equal,
and in many inflances fuperi.jr to the European
Cloths, we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw S
f»n, will meet with liberal encouragement in this ■
important and ufeful und:T.*.king. He ha^obtain
ed a patent and exclubvs right of making and
vending Hivltfag Clubs 011 hi- improved plan for a
cumber ef yev;, and they are fold only by him
fetf in Lancatter, ft?:-: of Pennsylvania, and by
the fubfcribcri in Philadelphia.
Juris 14
CINCINNATI.
Xt, yHK Members «f this St«e Society are here
rn - A: by «onfied, that their anniversary meeting
fa tor the ptirpoft- *f offieers of the SJcie
nd And trama&ing foch other business as may
g v. comcbefore them, will be held on the 4 th day
°f July next, in the State-H'oufe, at 10 u'clock
in the morning. The pun<3ual attendance of 1
the membrrs >s requested, as a quorum did not
a ' te ' lJ „ al 'he lilt 'anniversary meeting—After
niJi? ' n ' !^eil, ,lle Socio, y Will adjourn
to O E Hers Hotel, in order to celebrate the'birth
day of our freedom am! independence. I'hd
j dinner will be cq the table at half pad three
0 clock.
m The memhers of the stl.er States Societies of
the Cincinnati and the officers of the American
eg army, who may be in this city on that day, are
particularly invited to join this State Society in
i) commemoration of tlte da v.
Bj order of the Handing committee.
R. PGR I'iiß, Secretary.
June 22d, 1707.
GABRIEL DLCOMBAZ,
k n - BQOKSIi:i - Llfß & ST/iTIONEK,
A(£S /raw to infqrm the public that he haj re*
<S moved his Sk°p to Au. a, South Third street,
AND HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
Neatly boundand lettered, price t dols. 25 ctt.)
Ihe Adventures of Telemachus.
French <iud English, 2 vols, tamo.
A MONG the books which daily fall into the
J- i- hands of the vcuth of both sexes, none
s have a higher claim to their attentionthan Tele
machus. The molt interelling leflons are here
conveyed in the vehicle ps an mtei efling Poem,
repieie with the fincft touches of the true pa
thetic, and embelifhed w.ith all the graces of a
beautiful style. The fatal offers of indulging
5 the pafliens are exemplified in the ti/oft Unking'
mariner ; and the happiness attending inno
cence and virtue painted In the livelleft clours.
VVhatev'er can incite to virtue or from
vice ; whatever can enlighten the uncjerftand
-1 ing, charm the imagination, and improve th«
hejrt, is to be founcf in this interfiling work.
. THE NAVAL GAZETTEER j
Being a complete Geographical Dictionary,
, containing a full and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all the countries aj:d ifl*
auds in the known world ; Ihowing their lati«
ude, foundings, and Hations for anchovage j
with a particular delcription of the feveralßays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
1 Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Saads, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com«
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the fhapeand appearance at sea, of the feve«
ral Headlands, Jfthmufes, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, and whatever is of yfe or impor
tance to the Mailer, pi'ot, Commander, or
Seaman ef any Ihip or veflel, in navigating the
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample Diredlions for tailing into oroutofth«
different Ports, Strait*, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding
dangers on the varioiH and extended coafls ; in
w.hien more than twelve thousand diAinlt names
of places, are treated ef and explained. With
a correa set of Charts, 1 vols. Bvo. price 6 dolt
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM,
C?" This has been pronounced the moll ufe
ful and the cheapest bookpublifhed in America.
June 2i. dtf.
WILLIAM SANSOM,
HAS removed his Counting house to No. 06
Arch Street. "
He has remaining on hand of the Cirgo Cf f fh,s .
Ship Pigou,
from Canton,
A few Bales long Nankeens
ditto {hort ditto
A few Chefls Imperial Tea
ditto Young Hyson ditto
Which will be fold Chuap on a liberal Credit,
in order to close the (ales.
J"ne 19 d 3 t.
The Shareholders
OF the Pennsylvania Population Company,
are requested to meet at the Company's
Office, No. 53> North Fourth Street, on
Thursday the 29th instant.
By order of the Board.
Solomon Marache, Sec'ry,
J""e '9- <Jt29th.
Now Landing,
/It Pratt's wharf,
FROM on bo*rd the ftip Th«n»aß Chiikley,
C»pt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
LA RET In cafe
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vineglr
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rund'e Isl Leech.
May tt £
1 his Day is Published,
BY NJefT. Dob Ton, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
othri BookfeJlcri,
r»ce One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on Wove paper, and Hot
frejpd,
By John Thnmpfon,
A COMPARATIVE Vl£ W OF
The Constitutions
Of the feVernl States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Confcitution, and
cl»fling together their mtft important provifiMit,
under rh« feyeral heads of idminiftration ;
Notes and-Ohfrrvations.
By W fLL lAM SMITH,
Of Stivth Carolina,
L L. D siid member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to tha People of tin United States.
N. B. A few Copiss printed on an inferior pa
r, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
pf February 6 mwf
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice confiding of the following
Coast Ooodi, viz. •
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, M punjums
Do. do. si if i
Madrafs HandkrrJiiff<, acd
Book Mucins
. WILLING & FRANCIS-
Marck a?.
[Volume XI.'■• lT 'I 1 «
CONGRESS. n
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES, *
Wednesday, Juneiii . '
Mr. F1 kxsl E Y obtained leave of absence I
for the feiiiaindcr of the fcflicni c
The SpeaREA having informed thehoufe T
that the unfinifhed business of yefterdav, vie. t
the bill prohibiting citizens of the U. States
from entering into the military or naval fer-
Vic< of any fofeigit priilce or state, had the 1
priority- 1
Mr. (Jailal'lk moved to have itpo(lpon» <
ed, in order to take up the bill refpedtmg an 1
additional naval armament. This motion was '
supported by Mr. Giles and opposed by Mr.
\V. Smith, and negatived 35 to 34.
The bill refpedting foreign service was
taken up, aud, on motion of Mr. Havens,
It was agreed to leave the time of its taking
place a blank.
Mr. Colt moved to strike out the sixth
lection, which was in the following words:
" And whereas for the due execution of
this and other laws tending to- the security
of the public welfare, it is expedient to de
fine ana ascertain the mode in which a citi
zen may diflolve the the ties of citizen
ship, and become an alien; be it further en
a£led,
That the citizen 1 of the United States,
whether native or adopted, shall be deemed
citizens thereof, until they relinquiih that
character in manner hereinafter provided,
that is to fay ; whensoever any citizen of
the United States shall, by deed in writing,
under his haud and seal, executed in the
presence of, and fubferibed by two or more
witnesses, and at leafl by two of the sub
scribing witneflei proved before the supreme,
superior, diflrift or circuit court of some one
of the States, or of the Territories north
wefl of the river Ohio, or before a circuit
or diftrift eourTof the United States, with
in Ae jurifdidtion of which court he shall
then be resident, or by open verbal declara- !
tion, made and recorded in either of the
courts aforefaid, declare that he abfolatfcly
and entirely renounces all allegiance and fi
delity to the United States, and to every of
them, and (hall forthwith depart out of the '
territorial limit's thereof; every such person,
from the time of his departure, if 'his re
nunciation, verbal or written as aforefaid,—
shall have been duly recorded beforr his de
parture, (hall be considered expatriated, and
for ever thereafter shall be deemed an alien,
in like manner and to all intents as if he had
never been a citizen : Provided always that
he shall not enter into the military or naval
service of a foreign nation, or become the :
owner or p&rt owner of any foreign priva- '
teer or letter of marque, within one year of
his departure from the said United States ;
and if any such person shall enter the mili
tary or naval service of a foreign nation, or
become the owner or part owner of any fo
reign privataer or letter of marque, within
the space of one year from the time of his
departure from the United States, he shall
be liable to all the pains and penalties to
which he would have been fubjeft for the
like condudt if he had continued-a citizen."
Mr. StwALL hoped it would- bettruefc
out. In every country in the world where
civil feciety was established, th<; citizens of
that society owed a certain duty 'to'their
government which he could rot readily get
clear of; but they were about to establish a
principle to put it in the power of the citi
zens of the United States at their will,"and
without any pretence, to fay they would be
no longer fubjeft to this government ; and
this at a moftient of danger, when citizens
of other countries might be called home
from this country. He thought this would
be extremely wrong, it would be giving an
opportunity for insult to our court? and
country, and he was sure no nation would
shew us so much complaisance in return,
Mr. Claiborne thought it no more bin
ding for citizens born in the United States
to continue citizeas of the United States,
than it was for a Romae Catholie or Protes
tant, to continue of that opinion, when he
arrived at years of maturity, and could
judge for himfelf. He infifled upon it men
had a natnral right to choose under what
government they would live ; and they had
no reason to fear our citizens leaving us
whilst our government was well executed.
He did not wish citizens of the U. States
to be in the situation of fubjedts of Great
Britain, who, tho' they had left the country
40 years ago, were liable to be considered as
fubjedts of that Government. He trusted
the rights of man would not be thus infrin
ged, but that they should allow the right of
expatriation unclogged.
Mr. Sewall said three was a great dif
ference betwixt the two cases which the
gentleman had Hated. A man born and ed
ucattd in a counary certainly owed it obliga
tions which were not to be shaken off the
moment he chose to do so. The different
societies of the world, he said, were like so
many families independent of each other;
and what family, he asked, would fuffer any
of its members to leave it, and go into ano
ther, when they pleased ? He thought it
unreasonable that it should be so.
Mi". W. Smith (Ch.) said, the dodtrine
of perpetual allegiance was derived from G.
Britain, which, though it might be good in
theory, was not in pradtice. They had de
parted from many dodtrines derived from
that country, and the time was come, he be
lieved, for departing from this. The idea
of a man being compelled to live in this
country, contrary to his will, seemed to be
repugnant to our ideas of liberty. He
thought when a man was so difgvftcd with
the country, at to refolvc to leave it, for the
purpose of becoming a citizen of another
eountry, he should be at liberty to do so on
his complying with certain formalities, and
should never again be re-admitted. It was
upon thi* principle that this fedtion was
founded, and he thought if valuable.
Ms. S. Thought this fedtion efTential at
it would'be the meant of preventing quar- 1
re Is with foreign countries. For itiftanCe,
if • citizen of this count'y took command
! of a French riilp of **nr, and were to corn- |
j mit boftilhies on the property of citizens of J
the United States ; if he were taken, he
might allidge he was a citizen of the French
Republic, and that government might claim
him as inch ; but if this bill palled, no man
could cover himfelf under this pretence who
: had not complied with the remjifitions in.
. this ad. He mentioned the cafe (|f Mr.-
s Talbot.
Mr. S. said they had held out iiidi&e
---: menti for perfoas to come to this country.
we dul not allow they owed allegiance to any
» other country after theV had become citizens
i of this. To jrrant this, would be a fatal
s tiodtrine t<i this country. It? would he to
. declare, that in cafe we were at war with
another country, that country might recal
s persons from this, who formerly came from
>f thence. Many persons of that description
5 were amongst us. At prtfent, they enjoy
ed all the benefits of our law, and voted at
li our eledtions ; and yet,'"if this doftrine
■ were admitted, these persons might be re
if called as aliens ; and, if. they were not re
)• called, they would be considered as qualifi
• ed aliens, and not as real citizens.
- This law, Mr. S. said, was as
i- at present there was not fufficient energy in
- the government, to jninilh persons serving
on board foreign (hips of War. This bill
;, would cure the evil, and give an opportu
i nity for turbulent, discontented charadters,
t to leave the country, for ever. He believed
t,' it was the general opinion of the citizens of
if this country, that they had a right to expa
;, triate themselves, and he thought it was now
e a proper time to past some regulations on
e that fubjedt.
i. Mr. Sitgreaves thought this one of
the mod delicate and important fubjedts that
e ever came before Congress. He saw a num
ber of difficulties ; but he thought they
t were not of a nature to discourage them
from considering the bill ; he trusted they
11 Ihould meet them with firmnefs.
The evil, he said, "which gave rife to this
e bill, was a great and growing One. In the
y firft war which had taken place in Europe
since our Independence, they found this
if, do&rine of expatriation, as claimed by our
e ! citizens, endangering our peace with a for
i, | eign nation ; and if this principle were ad
> mated, he feared we ihould always be liable
- to similar embarrafTments.
Mr. S. took notice of the different objec- '
d tions made to this fedtion. He obferved
i, there seemed to be much doubt on the fub
d jedt, which he thought ought to be remov
t ed by passing a law of this fort. He wished
il he could agree in the opinion, that no citi
e zen had a right to expatriate himfelf from
! this country. He thought it a dodtrine es
s fential to the peace of society. He wished
; it was generally recognized ; but he believed
- the major opinion in this country was dif
r ferent; and though not diredtly, it had in a
i. great degree been recognized by the execu
n tive and judiciary, in the cases of Henfield
s and Talbot. He feared, therefore, it was
1 too late for to fay' the right did not
0 exist ; it was time, however, for Congress
e to declare an opinion oft the fubjedt. If the
" propqfitjon in the bill was not a proper one,
1 it" should be' made so.
e In the state of Virginia, this dodtrine was
J legalized, and in the constitution of Penn
r fylvania, it was ftrbngly indicated, as it said,
:t " emigration should not be prohibited." It
a was a favorite idea of a republican govern
i- ment not to forbid it. lie did not agree
d with the principles of the clause in all its
e parts. He thought citizens ought not to
d be allowed to expatriate in time of war, as
is their affifiance would te wanted at home,
e It was his intention-to have moved an amend
d ment, allowing expatriation only in time of
n peace, aHd an express provision against it in
d time of war. He thought the dodtrine of
d the gentleman from Maryland, viz. that our
citizens ought to go into <*ther countries to
l- learn the art of war, was chimerical. When
:s they had- obtained rank and wealth in a so
s, reign country, it would be in vain to call
f. them back—they would not return. He
ic hoped, therefore, the fedtion would not be
d struck out, but that they should proceed to
n amend it.
it Mr. N. Smith was sorry that the com
d mittee who reported this bill, had thought
is it necessary to report the 6th and 7th fec
1. tions. The dodtrine of expatriation on one
:s hand, and perpetual allegiance on the other,
it were fubjedts they had all heard much about;
y but expatriation, under limitation and re
ts flraint, was a new business. From its no
d velty it became doubtful. This being the
1- cafe, he wished the fubjedt had been defer
>f red to an ordinary feflion. Particularly as
it appeared to be no more connected with
f- other parts of the bill, than with many other
e laws now extant. If we were to have a law
l- on this fubjedt, he should wish to have it in
1- a separate bi11... For h» part, he could not
e fee how the committee could suppose it to
t have been a part of their duty to report these
0 fedtions ;"if he had thought it had, he should
; not have voted for appointing a committee
y on the occasion.
1. Gentlemen advocating these clauses, fay
t they would not allow of expatriation in time
of war. He would go further and fay, he
e would not allow of it when there was a pro
. fpedt of war ; for it would be idle to pro
n hibit it in one -cafe, and not in the other.
> He then asked, if this was not the very ilate
1 in which we now were ? If it were, why
- pass such a bill at this time, when it could
i not go into operation ? He thought this a
s good reason for rejecting these clauses. *
t There was a mutual obligation, Mr. S.
e said, between a government and all its citi
zens. The government -owed protection
c to its citizens, and citizens owed obedience
r to their government. These duties were
1 mutual and co-extensive ; and they might as
1 well fay that government could abandon its
j citizens when it pleased, as that citizens
1 could desert their government when they
pleased" j yet he would allow that government
> might, on certain occaGont, legalize expa
triation, but not On the ground of a citizen's
, having a right to expatriate when he pleased.
1 He should have no objection to take up the
fubjeft 4t a time whf~ they could do justice
to it, but he thought the present was not
that.time.
The qtteftion for'ltrikiug out the 6tli feo
ticin, was put and carried 45 to 41. The
7th flection, which was as follows, fell of
courfie : *
, ". That all persons who (hall exercise the
right os-expatriation, according to the laws
of the United States, (hall be and are here
by prohibited from becoming citizens of the
Utjjted States forever thereafter."
Mr. Harper proposed an amendment,
which intended to introduce a new prin
ciple.—As the bill now flood, no person
coul4 tq into foreign service without incur
ring the penalties therein provided ; but he
behVved there might be cases where it would
be for the benefit of this country to allow
persons to go into foreign service. He there
fore wished to strike out the words " the
limits of the fame," to introduce those of
" without fiaviny ftrfi bltaineii leave from the
PrcfidcrJ of the United States."
Mr. Claiborn thought the powers of the
President large enough, and (lid not wi(h to
increase them, nor to lay additional daty
upon him.
Mr. Vf.nable did net think, it neceflary
to entrust the President with such a power.
He did not believe it was the practice of any
country to grant a power of this kind, ex
cept in cases of officers, who, when they
wi(hed {o go abroad, alked leave, because al
ways liable to be called upon.
Mr. DayTon (the speaker) moved to
strike out the words moved to be struck out
by the gentleman from S. Carolina, with the
addition of the word " without." As the
bill flood, he laid, there was a provision a
gainst citizens who accepted and exercised
a commission within or without the limits of
the United States ; but none against those
who accepted within, and exercised it with
out the limits, or who accepted it without,
and exercised it within the limits. He was
against lodging the power proposed in the
President for the reasons assigned by the
gentleman from Virginia. Nor did he think
it would be attended with advantage for our
citizens to go abroad to learn what could
not be learnt at home ; he believed, in doing
so, they wot)ld learn more vice than virtue,
and bring home a greater portion of evil than
good. ~ !&,•
* Mr. Swanwick was surprised, that after
all that had been objefted against our citi
-1 zen 3 entering into the service of foreign
countries, that gentlemen should bring for
ward a proposition to atlthorife the President
to grant them leave to go into it when he
(hall think proper. This would be placing
the President in a very delicate situation ;
because if he allowed citizens to go to fight
in one country, he must allow them to go
into another, or there would be a breach of
neutrality ; and it would be an unpleasant
thing to refufe applications of this kind.
No advantage could be derived from this
plan, equal to the disadvantages of thus
placing the power. Indeed, he thought
the proposition an argument against the bill
itfelf.
After a few obfemtions from Mr. Har
per and Mr. Sewall, the question on the a
mendment .of Mr. -Dayton, was negatived
44 to s9'
I Mr. Dayton hoped some remedy would
be applied to the evil he had mentioned; and
1 that they should not report so imperfect a
, bill.
Mr. Sewall fuggeftcd a way in which
it tpight be remedied in the house. The
committee accordingly rose, and the House
took vip the amendments. Having come
to that for ftrikingout the 6th and 7th fac
tions.
Mr. Dent called for the yeas and nays,
which were agreed to be taken.
Mr. Vlnable said, it seemed to be ad
mitted that a right of expatriation existed
in our citizens ; and if so, he thought there
should be some mode of exercifingthat right.
He had no particular obje&ion to the mode
marked out in these clauses. It had been
said this was not the proper time, but he
thought it fince it was in some degree
connected with the present bill. The gen
tleman from Connecticut had stated allegi
ance and protection to be mutual. He did
not think they were so, to the extent which
he stated. This government was not bound
to protest citizens who went into fqreign
service, as in doing so they chose the pro
tection of another government.
Mr. Harper asked for an instance in
which the executive andjudfeiary had coun
tenanced the dodtrine'of expatriation.
Mr. Nicholas thouhgt it would have
been better to have avoided taking up this
subjeCt at pre Tent 5 but having taken it up,
if the bill passed at all, he believed it had
better pass with some regulations at the pre
sent. As to thf doftrine of perpetual alle
giance,hedid not think it could findmany ad
vocates in this country. It would, indeed
be dishonorable for us to hold out such a
doftrine, after inviting people to come here
in crowds from foreign countries. This
drxftrin* he said would affeCt a third or fourth
of the whole people of this country. He
thought, therefore, ttf£ right of expatria
tion ought at least to be confirmed here, as
an example to other countries.
Mr. W. Smith in answer to his col
league, produced the cafe of Talbot, and
the opinion given by -the Secretary of State
and by thc'Judicrary court on that occasion,
in favour of the right of expatriation.
Mr. Giles thought there could not be a
doubt in the minds of Americans on the fpb-*
jest of expatriation. Indeed, he said, this
was the foundation of our revolution ; for
they were not now, he said, to be told they
owed allegiance to a foreign country. It
had not only been the gr.iund of the revo
lution, but all their afts had been predicated
upon this principle. He referred to the aft
refpedtingthe rightsof naturalization, which
makei every new citizen swear to support
the conflitution of the United States, and
to renounce all other allegiance.
Mr. Gallatin was opposed to these
feftioM. With refptfft to expatriation, hav
ii.g himfelf exercised that right, he could
riot be supposed to be opposed to that right.
Perpetual allegiance was too absurd a doc
trine to find many advocates in this country.
The question was not whether citizens had
a right to expatriate, but whether they
should in this law prescribe a mode of doing
it. The doCtrine seemed to have been
recognized by the Executive and judici
ary, He was against going into this bu
iinefs, because he thought it unneceflary.
He believed the determination of who
were Citizens and who were not, might be
fafely left with the judiciary. He also had
lu6 doubts whether the United States had a
right to regulate this matter, |or whether it
should not be left to the ftate3, as the con
fl'tution spoke of the citizens of the States.
It was a dotibiful matter, and ought to un
dergo a full discussion, The emigrants from
this country to foreign countries were trifling
—but from 10 to 12,000 of our citizens had
gone to Canada, and upwards of 5000 bey
ond the Miffifippi, 4000 of whom would be.
got back by the running of the lines. A
number of these men hold lands in the Uni
ted States ; some have fold their lands and
become citizens under another government.
This subjeCt would, therefore, require con
siderable deliberation at a future day. He
wiftied the amendment of the committee of
the whole to be adopted. ,
Mr. Sitgreaves confirmed his former
statement with refpedt to the question of the
right of expatriation having been fettled by
the Judiciary. In order to do tlys, he read
a note from one of the counsel in the eases of
Henfield and Talbot, giving an account of
! the opinions of the court on the occasion.
\ Mr, Sewall infilled upon the policy' of
| preventingtherenunciationofallegiancewith
; out controul. The treaty of peace with G.
Britain he said, had diflolved our allegiance
■ to that country, and acknowledged our in
dependence.
Mr. Giles believed the evil apprehended
from individuals having the right to expatri
ate themfelvs when they pleased, was more
imaginary, than real. Only two citizens had
taken advantage of that right in the (late of
Virginia, where it was allowed in all its ex
tent, in twelve years! But if there were any
citizens so detached from the government, at
to wifli to leave the country, ne should wiih
them gone. To suppose this, would be to
fuppofc a real divifioii betwixt the people
and government, which he did not believe had
existence. It was said Great Britain did n»t
allow the doftrine of expatriation; But he
said, (he had not any naturalization law. He
was in favour of excluding citizens who once
expatriated themfelvei from ever returning to
this country.
Mr. Thatcher did not think the princi
ple was so important as It had been'confider
ed. The great emigrations which we every
day saw to this country, miglir quiet their
apprchenfions of many goingy"rt>m it. He
did not think one man a year would take ad
vantage of the expatriation clause for 50
to come, which could be no great objefl ef
pceially when it was coufidered that these
would probably be the lead veluable of our
citizens.
Mr. Gordon was in favnuf- of the amend
ment of the committee of tjie whole, though he
could not fay he had wholly made tip his mind
Upon the subject. He thought theft fefliorts
important, and perfeftly di-ftir.<£l from the bill;
he, therefore, wiftied the confiderition of this
matter to toe postponed to a perio'd when they.
Ihould have more letfure for the difciiflTon. ..,
Mr. Otis said, that when- this bill was firft
reported, these clauses ftrm It him unfavorably;
but a little reflection had convinced him of the
propriety of retaining tfiem. The pafling. of
this proviGon, he said, would not affedt the
conftituticnal right with refpeil to expatriation,
whatever it might be. This bi.l did not relate,
to persons emigrating int® the Spanilh or £n
glifh territories, but to perlons expatriating,
therafelves, and engaging in the service of fo
reign countries.
The question on agreeing to the report of the
committee of the whole to rejefl the 6th and
?th l'ecflions of the bill was taken jby yeas and
nays as follow—
YEAS.
Meflrs. Baer, Baird, Bayard, Bradbury; Bry
an, Cabell, Cochran, Coit, Craik, Davis, D
Foster, J. Treemaw, Gallatin, Goodrich, Gor
don, Gregg, Grifwold, Hanna, Harper, Hirt
ley, Lorke, Lyon, M Dowell, Schureman, Se
wall, Skinner, N. Smith, Standferd, Swanwick,
Thompson, Thomas, Van Cortlandt, Varnum,
R. Williams— *4.
NAYS.
MeflT. Baldwin, Blount, Brookes, Brent, Bur
gess, Chapman, Champlin, Claiborn, Clay-
Clopton, Dana, Dawfon, Dennis, Dent, Elmon,
dor/, Evans, Findley,'A. Foster, Giles, Gillef
pie, Glen, Harrifon, Havens, Holmes, Hafmer,
Imlay, Jones, Lyman, Machir, Macon, Mat
thews, M'Clenachan, Milledge, Morgan, New,
Nicholas, Otis, Parker, Potter, Reed, Ratledge,
Shcpard, Sinnickfon, Sitgreaves, S. Smith, J.
Smith, W.Smith (C.) tV. Smith (P.) Sprigg,
Sumpter, Thatcher, A. Trigg, J. Trigg, Van
Alen, Venable, Wadfworth, J. W- Williams.
—J7-
' All the amendments having been gone thro'
Mr. S. Smith moved to postpone the further con
fideratipn of the bill till the fir It Monday jn No
vember.
This motion was'fupported by meflrs. Var
num, N. Smith, Baldwin,.Goodrich and Coit,
as involving a question of too delicate and im
portant a nature to be parted over in this bafty
manner, and beiaule there was 110 prefling nt
ctffity to go into the measure at present.
It was opposed by meflrs. Otis, Williams, W.
Smith and Craik, on the groand of the provi
6on of tb« bill being necessary, and that to post
pone the buGnefs, after so ample a difcuflion,
would lie undoing what.thcy had been doing for
two or three day "
The question for poftfpnement was taken by,
yeas and nays as follow :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Baer, Baldwin, Baird, Blount, Brtnt,
Burgcfs. Cabe!l,-C!aibbrn, Clay, Clopton, Coit,
Dawlon, Elmondorf, FimlUy, Fo(U», Fowler,
N. Freeman, Gallatin, Giles, Gillefpve, Good
rich, Gordon, Gregg,Grifwold, Hanna, Harri
fon, Havens, Jones, Lccke, Lyon, Macon, M'-
Clenachan, M'Dowell, Milltdge, New, Nicho
las, Parker, Sewall, Skinner, N. Smith, S.
Smith, W. Smith (P,) Sprijtjr,Sandfort!, Svmp
ter, Swanwick, A. Trigg, J. Trigs, Van Ccrt
laadt, Varaufn, Venable,K. Williims—sa.
NAYB.
Meflrs. Bayard, Bradbury, Brookes, Bryiti,
Chapman, Champlin, Cochran, Craik, Dana,
Davis, Dennis, Der.t, Lvar.s, A. t'ollir, J. Frce
man, Glenn, Ciove, Harper/ Hartley, Hind
man. Holmes, llofmer, Imlay, Kittera, Lyman,
Marfiir, Matthews, Morgan, Otis, Potter,
Heed, Rwledge, Sehureman, Shepard, Siunick
fon, Sitgrcives, J. Smith, W. Smith (Ch.)
Thatcher, Thomas, Thompson, Van Alen,
VVailfwohh, J. Williams— 44.
The bill being thus-lost, Mr. W. Smith pro
posed A resolution to the heufe for Appointing a
committee t<» report a new bill without thetwri
last clauses, which it was evident hid been the
vaufe of the negative given to the bill. 1 As he
t ftippofed no opposition would be made to the
bill f» reported, it might be got through with
out loft of time.
After some further conversation pn a point of
order, whether »r not this resolution could be
admitted, the speaker declared it in order, hut
Mr. Coit wilhing it to lie on the tjble till to
morrow, it lay accordingly.
Mr. Reed, from the commltteeof'enrolment,
reported the bill for the further prote&ion of
the ports and harbors of the United States a*
duly enrolled, and it accordingly received the
figaature of the speaker. Adjourned.
Thursday,jtf.vx ii
Mr. W. Shith called upthe-refohltmn which he
yesterday laid upon the table, for tlppointing a com
mittee to bring in a biU for prohibiting citizens of
the United States from entering 011 board foreign
ships of war without the expatriating claufcs.
This resolution was opposed by MefTrs. Bald
win, Giles and Venable, and supported by the mo
ver and Mr. Harper. It was negitiyel 49 to 46.
A meflage was received from th? President ef
the United States, in confequer.ci; of the. resolution
of the xcthiaft. calling upon hinv.fur information,
relative to French and English spoliations, Cnca
the id of Oitober, 1796, intlotag documents a*
follows; ■
Report of the Secretary of StMe t» the President
of the United States, refp«<!ting the depredation*
committed on the commerce of t|je United
States.'
I. AbftraiStof two cases 6f" capture made by the
British cmiferi of Vfeftels belonging to citizens of
the United States finde th&ift ofO&aber, 1796,
and-whercin documents have received at the
departnient of state ; alio a copy of a memoran
dum filed by S.Smith, Esq. relating to captures
made by the 'British of vefTels in the property of
which he was concerned Note. No document*
accompany the two cases, of captures above men
tioned, they having been sent to London, in order
that compensation might be, obt.aincd.for damage
fuffered.
J. A correct copy of the decree of tie executive
dir< <aoryj*f March i, 1797.'
3 Copies of documents remaining in the
ment of state, relative to American yefi'els captur
ed or condtmmed by the French since the ift oi Oc ■
tober,t796. *
4. Extra&s from communications from the con
fulsofthe United States relative-to depredation*
committed on the commerce "of the United State*
by tbe French.
J. Schedule of the names of American vessel*
captured by the French and of the circumflances
attending them, extracted from' the Philadelphia
Oazette and Gazette of the United States, and com
mencing with July
6. Extraft of a letter from Rufus King, Esq.
minister &c enClosing the protest ef William Mai*-
tin, mailer of tlie Cincir«at«s of Baltimore, rela
tive to the trorttrre inflifted on th* said Martin,
by a French cruiser.
Mr.Giles moved that the above papers should
be referred to a fcled committee, fa print such a*
Would be ufeful to the ho»fe.
This qneftion was negatived 50 to 46, and a
motion carried sot printing the whole.
Mr.iOii.is called up the motion which had some
days ago been laid »u .ths table ysfpetfting an ad
journment. .
"'Mr. Gallatl* wished to .modify his motion,
by malting the proposed day of adjournment the
»?t{iinflead of the 14th inft, _ % "
. JWr, &TCREAVSS moved fofAhe"f?as and nay*
<in the question.
J Mr. Ma com moved to make the day the 28th,
which was contested t.P by the'moVeri.
Mr. lit .-.'t gropgfeil, to make it the-30th.
.'TKe cpielHon was taken on "postponing to the
33ah, ar.«l : negatived, thsre being ronty 'aS votes in
■ •n'nr'nt it." ' y
' The queftlon oji tfte resolution, for the
28th, «-as carried- by .yeas apd naf's as fol
lows.
- -YEAS.
, Meflra. Baldwin, Baird, Blount, Brent,
Bryan, Burgess, Cabell, Claiborne,. Clay,
Clopton, Coit, Davis, Dawfon, Eg«, El
mondorf, Findley* Fowler, N. -Freeman,
Gallatin, Giles, Gillifpie, Gregg, Hanna,
Harrifon, Havens, Holmes; Jones, Locke,
Lyon, Macon, M'Clenachan, "Ivl'lJowell,
Milledge, Morgan, New, Nicholas, .Parker,
Potter, Reed, Skinner, S. Smith, W.
Smith, (P.) Sprigg, .Standfor.d, Sumpter,
A. Trigg, J-Trigg, V-. Cortlandt, Var'num,
Venable, R. Williams-— J-l.
NAYS.
Messrs. Allen, Baer, Bayards, Brad
bur)', Brookes, Chapman, Champlin, Coch,
ran, Craik, Dana, Davenport,. . Dennis,
Dent, Evans, A. Fqller. D. Poller, J.
Freeman, Glen, Goodrich, Gordon, Gri f
vvold', Grove, Harper, Hartley, Hind
man, liofmer, Imlay, Kittera, S. Lyman,
Machir, Matthews, Otis, Rutledge,
Schureman, Sewall, Shepard, Sinnickfon,
Sitgreaves, J. Smith, N.' Smith, W.
Smith, (C.) Thatcher, Thomas, Thompson.
V. Alen, Wadfworth, J. Williams—47
Mr. Pa.r ke r moved the order of the <ja*y
on the bill from the Senate; providing (or
the proteftion of the trade of the United
States, and the House accordingly went in
to a committee on that fubjeft. ': ~
The bill having bein read, some observa
tions took place refpecling the fixing of the
price of feameti's wages, instead of leaving
it to the difcreation of thePrefident, but ro
question was taken; as it was fuggeffed the
othec parts of the bill had better firft be
gone through.
Mr. Pakkir,, moved to strike out tlie
following fefiion, of thebill, viz. -
" Th'at the President of the -Unfted State*
be, and he is hereby authorized jnd em
powered, (hould-he deem in expedient, t»
pause to be procured by purchase or other
wise and to be fitted out, manned, & employ
ed, a number of vessels, not exceeding,
nine, to carry, not exceeding twenty guni
each."
Mr. P, thought, if the revenue cutten
were armed, as had before been suggested,
there-would be no necdlity for tbe
here proposed, which he did not think 16
well calculated for service as them. They
would carry 10 or 12 guns, ar.d from 40 to •
yo men, ttffd would be able to cope with
any small privateer on our eoaft, or in the
Weft-Indies. He proposed to introduce a
ntw clause for this purpose.
Mr. 8. Smith thought the objeft of th«
geutlemtJi last up might be attained byamending this-.l.iufo. Ho was hi'
iwQr of the cutters, as tltey w<>ukl not only"
lerve as a difence frtr our coalt, hut as ten
ders to the frigates. Nihe vessels of io
guns, lie fa id, would require 674 fearnen
to man them, and the frigates would require
432 able,and' 300 ordinary fearnen, which
he did not believe would be vsry readily
railed. Belides- veffek which would bepur
chnfed for this would not be cal
culated for the fcrvice, not being fufficiently
l»vift sailers, wltihl these cutters would out
sail molt privateers, atid half the fearnen
would be lufijcient. They might be ready
in a fortnight, whilst the others could not
be lit for sea for three month:.
Mr. Parker had thought of amending
the bill in the way proposed ; but he found
fwne objections to that mode. It would be
ntcelTary that the cutters (hould be employ.
irt the protection of our revenue, as 'w ell
as to guard ottr coait; and, on that account
he believed it would be better not to include
them under the naval eftablilhmpnt, as they
would not, in that cafe, be-so much"at the
command of the secretary of the treasury.
I he question was carried without a divi
sion ; the claufc following, which respeCted
the officers and crew to be employed, fell of
courfc.
Mr. Giles moved to ltrike out the fol
lowing clause, for the purpose of inferring
a similar one to that agreed to in the bill for
the gallies,. yiz. to Confine their use within
thejurifdiclion of the United States :
. " That the President of the United States
may employ the said frigates and the said
vessels, to protect the Ihips and cargoes be
longing solely to citizens'of the United
States, and also the harbors and fea-coalt of
the United States, infuch manner and under
such regulations as (hall in no wife contravene
either the laws of nations, or any existing
treaties between the United States and fo
reign nations."
Mr. W. Smith hoped this amendment
would not be agreed to. He believed it
was never attended to confine the frigates
within so narrow a sphere. sie believed
the latter part of the clause proposed to be
(truck out would prevent any mifchief.
The Commanders of these vessels, he said,
would be men of abilities and Character,
well inltructed as to their duty with respeCt
to the Law of Nations. If the Frigates
were to be thusconfined in their operations,
they would be of no real use.
Mr. Giles wilhed to know to what o- ;
ther purpose, besides the protection of our
coad, the gentlemen wilhed to employ these (
vessels. It seemed to be tho't the Frigates
Could be of no use, except as convoys; but
he' denied that they were equal to that objeCt
if it were agreed that they ihould be so em
ployed. It was said the cutters to be em
ployed were to aft as Tenders to the Fri
gates ; yet they were to be kept at home;
it would therefore be curious to fend the
frigates abroad, and keep the tenders' at
home. To employ the frigates in any o
ther way than for the protection-os ourcoaft,
would, in his opinion, hazard the Peace of !
the country, without producing any good;
for if he was a merchant (and he believed the
merchants were generally of that opinion),
he would sooner fend his vessel unprotected,
than with the proposed convoy.
Mr. SitGreavcs argued againlt theabfnrdi
ty of confining the operations of our maritime
forte to the narrow limits proposed by the a
mendment—lt was the ohjedl of the bill to de
fend our commerte from the unjust atta«ks of
the belligerent powers, and it surely would not
be pretended that these attacks v ere confined to
Our coasts—To render the protedticin efficient,
it should be co-exte»live with the danger—and
ihould the'ffigates not be permitted to operate
beyond the imaginary line which limits our ma
ritime jurifdi&ion on the sea coast, it would
frequently happen that they would be vbligcd
t« submit to the capture of their cotvoys. within
fhereaeh of their guns—lt would be infinitely
preferable |to ditmaiitle o«r (hipt of war, and
live the expence of their equipment, than to
hold out to our trade an illufivt protection,
which would only lead them into danger—The
picaroon* which infeft the American seas would
Uffkiently understand the reitriflion which it
propolcd, and would be rather incited by it
than discouraged—He wai therefore decidedly
against the amendment, but neither did he like
the clause as It flood in the bill—He did not
tomprthsr.d the propriety of limiting the pro
tection of the frigates to the cafe of " vessels
and cargoes owned solely by American citizens'
-—ln some inflancesit ought not to be extended
so far, in others it ought to go farther—Veffels
ami eafjoe. owned entirely by our own citizens
•Ihigjht be employed in a contraband trade and
ought not to be prete&cd ; although this con
ilru&ioa perhaps was corrected by the latter
part of the .clause, yet there was an opposite
evil which would necessarily arile from it in its
preient form—Ships owned by American citi-
Mere •ntitled to the protection of the go
' .ViTr.meut againlt French cruisers, while engag
ed In a lawful trade, let their cargoes belong to
whinti tliey might—lt is one stipulation of our
commercial treaty with France that free Ihips
mike free goods—and whatever might be the
opinion of this house at to the expediency of
reluiquifhiwg this stipulation by a newcoinpafl,
yet until this could be effected in a courfc of ne
-gOeiatioa, we c annot abandon the advantages
if gives to our citizens—The rights giowing
out oftreaty are as much objefljof protection as
thole ariCng Imm the law of nationt—and he
could never consent to such an abandonment of
' them, untilthe reliiions of the two countries in
this refpefl Ihould be legitimately changed—lf
the peefent amendment therefore should not
prevail, it was his intentioa to move to fubfti
. tute for ftie words " ihips and cargoes belong
ii»g solely to citizens of the United States" the
[ exprriiioM the lawful commerce of the citi-
I zens of the United States."
J Mr. Nicholas concluded the gentleman
1 was not in the House when this subjeCt was
I formerly under difcufiion, as he seemed to
I have (tumbled upou all the objections, which
I were then abandoned. fThofe gentlemen
1 who- had advocated convoys completely gave
them up, [Mr. Smith denied that he had
ever gave them up.] Mr. N. believed he
sever did, on any other account than because
every body about him gave.them up, and a
clause directly the reverse of his was agreed
to. Mr. N. then went over the arguments
which were gone into on a former cccafion.
He (hewed that this force was inadequate to
the protection of our commerce, and that
the uatural confequencc of refilling a search
or being takeii'ifito a foreign trial,
on the ground of a c;jrgo bciag-Aona fide
neutral,' would Hfoddce v- ar. And should
ytc, he _afl<ed,'while a negpeiation was p»nd-*
ing, run the risk oragain involving ourselves
in difficulties ? He trufled we (hould not.
He denied that the effect of the amendment
could be to confine the frigates within the
jurisdiCtion of the Unifld States, as the
commerce within the jurisdiCtion might be
defended by their going without it. He
trusted the amendment would, be agreed
to.
Mr. Dayton* (the speaker) wished, to
(trike out the seCtion, and inferF* nothing.
He was not prepared to fay the Frigates
(hould or should not be employed as con
voys ; hor was he ready to fay they (hould
be confined Within the jurisdiCtion of thtf
United States. He was willing to leave"
this business to the President of the Uftited
States, as commander in chief. He was
sure that confidence would not be. abused ;
and he believed he would have better oppor
tunities than they had, of determining the
bed menner of employing them.
Mr. Parker seconded the motion. He
thought it would be highly improper in
tbem to dictate to the President how he
(hould use these vessels. He wilhed that to
reft on the broad basis of the President's.
responsibility.
Mr. W. Smith had no objeCiion to the
business taking this course. As Command
er in Chief, there was no doubt the Presi
dent would employ this naval.force in a man
ner which, in his opinjoh, would be mod
conducive to the publicgood. If the nego
ciation failed, and there (liould be a necessity
for employing it in a manner differently
from what they at prefeat contemplated, he
wouJA of course do so. Mr. S.'took no
tice of what had fallen from Mr. Nicholas ;
he denied that what had been determined
relative to the gallies, had any connexion
with the frigates. He said, in our treaty
with' Holland and Sweden, convoys for our
trtde in time of peace were positively (tipu
lated for, the word of th e commander
of our convoy was always to be taken, as
to the description of our cargoes ; therefore
the arguments of that gentleman fell to the
gronnd, when he said our vessels could not
go out to sea without endangering our
peace. It was true there was no such arti
cle in our treaty with France, but it was sti
pulated in what manner search (hould be
I made. The Swedifii treaty, he said, was
' made by Dr. Franklin, at Versailles, under
; the eye of the French Government., It
was to be supposed, therefore, it met with
| their full approbation, efpecfally as it had
never been complained agairift.
Mr. Nicholas said, that there being
stipulations of the kind mentioned by the
gentleman last. up, provided that no such
right existed without a treaty ; and.as to the
manner in which a search should be made
being laid down, it was ho fecuritv agaiuft
the evil he dreaded. He denied the right
of the President to apply the naval force of
| the Uuited States to any object he pleas
; ed. When a force was raised for a partiev-
I lar objeCt, he agreed that it was his business
to direCt the manner in which ,this force
(hould be used ; but to fay tliat he had a
right to apply it-at his discretion was to
make him majler of the United States, if that
were the cafe, he said, the powers of that
House were gone. When they raised men
for the protection of the frontier, would the
President, he jilted, fend them to any other
place J He infilled upon it that they had
a right to fay the vessels (liould be kept in
the river Delaware, if they pleafed;—-the
President might afterwards'direCt their con
duCt. If a contrary doCtrine were to pre
vail, if they did not give up the right of de
claring war, they gave up a power which
would inevitably lead to war.
Mr. Br.ookes did not apprehend any
danger from leaving it in the power of' the
President to make use of the frigates as he
pleased.
Mr. Gallatin said, that after having
determined that the three frigates (hould be
got ready for feS, it became necessary to fay
upon what business they (hould be employed.
There might be different opinions on the
subjeCt, but it was necessary to define the
objeCt. If not, they had reason to appre
hend, from his-Speech, that the President
would employ them as convoys. The dif
ficulties attending such an employ, had
been (hewn when the fuhjeCt of gallies were
under confidcration; they were so many
that the peace of the country would be
greatly endangered by by such an employ
ment of the frigates. The danger was
greatly increased by the disputed articles of
our treaty with France, which the President
would be under the necessity of enforcing.
In ordinary times, he said, the principle of
the gentlemen from New-Jersey was a good
one. If we hatj frigates in service, they
were not from day to day to fay how they
(hould be employed; but, under,our present
circumstances, he throught the objeCt
ought to be defined, and that they ought to
depart from the maxint laid down bo that
gentlemen.
Mr. Sewall wis in favor of ftrikrngout the
claufc .Ifthe I'refidcnt Were to be limited at all he
(hould have no objuAion to limit bhn with refjxifl
to convoys, from the incompetency of three vessels
to that end; hut these frigates w ere to be conlider
ed as the public force, as the navy of the United
States. It was true it was a small one, hut itjwat
such at congress had thought, proper to rai'e, and
put in the power of the President. And why
Ciouldthls power be limited ? It seemed as if t'hejr
fuppofed,from his naturaldifpofition.or from (baie
other cause, he would abuse it, by employing the
vessels contrary to iaw, and thereby involve the
country i* a war.
j'he constitution, Mr. S said, had defined himto
be command* r in thief of the navy, and having a
navy, the command of cenrfe devolved upon him.
If these vessels were Vuilt for a particular pttrpofe,
they might detonate thur objed, but they were
thrrity to •' equip and employ these vessels." If
a that peric d whi 11, in the opinion of many gen
tlrmen, there Wai a greater pi ofpeA of war than
at prcient, 110 object w-r* pointed--* u for the vef
fels,he did not fee why any should now be pointed
out. With to thcdif)tted articles in the
Fref th treaty, they had already ejprcff.J >:i epin
ion 'ta the'PriftJerit, wiiic fie douSteJ tot ifoiji
have its - •* '
Mr Williams thought that haviq®: given the
.President a difcretfOnary power io the firtt Ititloii
of the bill'they. aught not now t« t >ltc it from him
because, if "he did n»t fee oocalion to niiu the fri
gates, he would never do it; but if 'he fee oc
cafiun for manning them, they ought not to take
from him the of employing them as he
pleased. He jwas therefore in favpr of the motion
of the gentleman from New Jcrfvy.
' IVfr Gl l.jr.i al]ced,»vhether tn'afctrtain the object
upon which these Vcffels (hould hacmptoyed, was
a Initiative or an executive a*il ? It was certainly
a legislative. They ought to.f-y to the President,
" Here is, she force, and there is the objeA." It
wis laid they, had already, given an opinion to the
President, with rclpcS to the difpurcd article* in
the French treaty. ? hr: rrdtv wrfhed a law to b«
pa* Ted in conformity to that opinion.
They were often charged, Me. Giles said, with
a waut of confidence in the President. He was
free to own he had nut. much confidence in the pre
fent'Prefident. His speech, St the opening of.the
feflion, had deftroy'ed all histonfidence; but,how
ever high their opinion might be of the Executive,
they o»jht.Ooft>» lodge impiopcr powers in his
* ia " • -
Mr. HAR.PiR was in favor of the motion. He
wiihud tjO provide force, and not to direift the
use of iti he biheved this was the objeA for
which they were called together. He was wil
ling to leave the use of this force to theprefidcrft
-r-bcoaufe he-could rirrployit in 2 manner -only
applicable to. peace-; to employ it otherwise
would be a breach of his power. He therefore
could not repel any violation of our rights by
force, except previously authorized by Con
gress
•" THe gentleman from Virginia, Mr. Harper,
said, need not to.have told them he had no con
fidence in the present executive. He might
have said in no executive 5 for it waa well
known he never milled going out the way
to fay rude thißgs of the late president; but he
did not believe this was the best way.of difcharg
■iiig their duty. Hebel evtd the public cared lit
tle what hU opinion of the President was; he
thought they ought to do their duty, and leave
the preliucnt to This. Jir. Harper denied that
they haclthe right to d : reit the public force.. If
we were at war with Great-Britain, they fhouli?
have no right to fay to the president attack Ca
nada or the Ulands. The use of this force niuft
be left with the president; if he abuses it, upon
his own head would lie the refponfihility, and
not upon them*
Mi. S. Smith had not made up his mind
ou the fubjedt. If the power of employing
the frigates was wholly left with the Presi
dent, though he had not 'he power of de
claring war, yet he might so employ them as
to lead to war, particularly with refpelk to
the French treaty articles. Ou the other
hand, it seemed to be a poor employment for
these frigates, after all the expoace which they
had cost, to keep them wiihin thejurifdiftion
of the United States. They could not
cruise there, indeed, without danger of run.
nir>g on the (hoali. Underloading, as he
did, that by voting tor the striking out of'
tbii-claufe, he (henid net be precluded from
voting for the amendment of the gentleman
from Virginia, if he (hould conclude to do
so, he Ihould vote for ft 1 iking out the fefticn
in question.
Mr. Macon proposed a clutfe Cmiiar inef.
tet\ to that proposed by the gentleman from
Virginia, to be infertedin place of the one
struck out—but the chairman declared it not
in order.
Mr. Dayton said, that those gentlemen
who were not prepared to Vote for retaining
the li th feflion, mull W 'prepared to fay
these frigates Iha|l be employad at convoy?.
It war to Uraid tliis, that he had moved tb
lirike it out.. He again fxprcfled his- vrifh
that "the direflrao of this force, might be' left
with the President.
Mf.,Crr'i.Sj declared his intention of voting
sbr (IrTkiijg out {he feflipn,. and to rilk the
inferfion of another afterwards.
The queftiun for striking' out was carried
without, a division.
Mr. Giles tliei moved to insert the fee
tjon before proposed by Mr. Macon, to eon
fine the life of our fiigates ta the proteflion
of our coasts, and commerce within the ju
rifdiflion of the United States.,
[To be concluded to morrow- ]
%i)c >
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, June 23.
The Senate of-tne U. S. have concurred
in the nomination of Mri Gerry as Envoy
Extraordinaty to the French Republic.
The Kentucky Gazette fays, That a latge
' body of French troops are 011 the illand of
; Cuba supposed to be destined for the Mifli
fippi. That the Governor of the Nat
chez sent men to wiy-lay the persons and in
tercept the dispatches sent by Mr. Ellicot
to our government, but having previous in
formation thereof, thpy avoided them by
travelling through the woods.
PRICES OF STOCKS. 1
6 per Cent. 16/10
Deferred 6 per Cent. 13/ a 11/3
S\ per Cent.
4 per Cant.
1 per CuDt. 1 ofn
BANK SHAKES. ■
Bank Onited States, 17 per cent, advance. -
i'ennfy lvania, 2
North America, 50 - 1;
lA'SURANGM COMPANY SUA RES" r
I. C- <*f N. A. jo per ce»t. advance.
Pentifylvania, 3. .
GAZETTE MARINE-LIST.
PojiT of Philadelphia.
arrived. bars.
Sloop Eliza> Nicbolfon .St* Baithclomews 11
Schooner Mar* 7 , Foiilke Bermuda 13
Coffin Uoiton %o
■ CLfAK.SC
Brig Adamant, Whirling Shelbnrn, N. S.
Abigail, Babcock .Betfail
Beitey, Harris) ' Port au Prince
Schooner Kiting Polly, Jcnei . N-Carolina
Ranger, Friar Jacqnemel
Sloop Friendftip, Brock way ; - N. York
she brig Virginia, Carr, for Alexandria, fail
ed from St. Kitts in company wirli the Fair A
meriian, arrived here oil Wtdpefday la 2.
POST-QFFICE, Philadelphia, June 21 1797.
Letters for the British Paccket, Carteret, will
be received it thi» office antil Saturday the.a+th
inlt. 1112 s'c'.ock, nooa.
By thk day's Mail:
» ■—
NEW-YORIC;. June 2:.
REPORTS.
Those who are delighted with reports, must
have been highly gratified lor two days part ;
for it was reported,.and by many believed,that
Tom Paink had arrived in the (hip Steady, 1
from Bordeaux; who, it was said, had come j
ashore in difjuife, to prevent his being known. |
This detedls itfclf. No one who knows Tom »
Patni, would believe, were he to arrive in. A' j
merica, that he would appear in any other cha- .
raf\er thin that of a man oiO»rimcn Senjt, not- j
withitanding the influence which the Wff tf 1
Reajon might have, over his enemies.
Anathcr report was, that an augmentation of
the pay of the land forces of England and Ire-'
land was demanded. This, it was laid, a paper
of a late date brought by the Orion, from Cork
contained. As we received the latefl paper by
this arrival, without this nezi's, it is highly pro
bable that it is unfounded; though such an
event may be said to be a natural confcquence
of the Teamen's late fuccefsful demand.
And a third was, that Mr. Pitt was succeeded
in office by the marquis of Lanfdowr.e- —This
is much the merest report.
By the next arrivals, the public will, in all
probability, be .furnilhed with much informa
tion of a piece with the aliova, as there lidoubt
lefs materials no-M in Ilore—but they must come
out in season-
BOSTON, June 19.
IMPORTANT!
Yesterday arrived here, Capt. Henfhaw,
44 days from London, left the Down the
9th May ; we have-not been able to procure
the papers for this day—but are informed,
he has brought London papers that contain
the articles of PEACE between FRANCE
and the EMPEROR—that the people of
England are in the greatest agitation possible
—and if immediate Peace does not take
place, a Revolution must follow, as Johnny
Bull ia now left alone to combat the invinci
ble, and all conquering Republic of France
Captain. Henfhaw arrived here yesterday,
in 46 days from London—by him we have
received Englilh prints to May 4, only—-the
report that h?,brought the articles of-tlie fc
parate treaty of Peace between his Imperial.
Majesty and the French natipn* is conse
quently a mistake—indeed,. \ye ..have seen
capt. H. and find he brings no later news
of any kind, than was feceived by the Te
lemachus. (Boflon Price -Current.
Legi/latwt of Netu-llampJhlre..
The Governorlpecch being. committad, -the.
committae reported' th« following ANSWER ;
which was cavilled by Meflrs. Langdon and God
dard, of Portfm«uth ; and advocated byMuflVs.
Sprague, Whipple; and others; The'debates were
cool and decorous, and the report palled without
amendment, 104 for it, to 28.aj*ainft it. We have
. only time to congratulate our country on the fted
faft federalifhi of our filler state of New-Hamp
shire. [Cent: ml.
THE ANSWER.
MAY JT PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY,
WITH much pleasure, we ;covigratulat-e
ypu. on . your re-appointment
. Magiilracy of this State. «ya
nimity of the-people, foreji.eatedly AiatiSfcr
ted in this tranfaftion., we .'consider-as the
highest to'ken of tft'eir. and tlie
heft comment on your. fotm«rfemi;es. c - ; • •
The general health a(i4 proffjtrity,"tiie
civil and Teiigioiis libery ? Xye-now p'offefi; is
mattet abundant Joy, and ought tb excite
in us the- liveliest emotions q£; gratitudd; arid
ipraift to-the 'Suprfpne Ruler of nations"and
men. v.-' "•'
As-a member of that e*tenfive republic,
-which has lately arisen in America, we know
it to be our duty, we feel jt.to be our inte
rell, '"to' preserve ...and strengthen" that
connexion,'by which we are United'under
■one Federal head.
The Prefrdent of the United. States, hav
ing converietLCongrefs upon a weighty arid
urgent occasion, we feeL deeply interested
-in the debates and resolutions of that adem
bly in their present feflion.- ,
We consider it as a firft principle in the
Conftitutiori of this and of the -U. States,
that officers of the tefpefliye. govei nments
have no separate and independent irttereft
•fi-om that of the pitizens in general ; and
•we fificerely talent that any foreign nation
.Ihould imbibe a contrary opinion. Any
■ either at home .or abroad;, to in
troduce or diffufe such a falfe and dange
•rous fetitiment, Will meet our direct cehfuje
and'difapprobation. ..
-FlcJwevei* critical and alarming-the state
'-of'our- national afFajrs may. now bs, yet-we
poflefs a hope and confidence, that the ~oun.
cils of the' Federal GQvcrnment will be gui
ded by wifdam, ' moderation, and firmnefs-:
And we are especially encouraged in this
hope and confidence, from the illu&rious
char'a£ter of the firft Magiftrat.e of the U.;
States. His eminerit services at, home, his
amicableand fuccefsfyl. negociations abroad,
leave no ground of dpubt, that his abilities
and influence will be further exerted for the
good of hrs coOntij. ' .
\ Whatever donftitutional measureS the
general go verntnferif may adont, forouf corn- ]
rnon fafety and defence,, (hall receive our
. prompt and efteftive r * •
'* ' W'e wish to live in peace, upon eq(ial ahd
honorabfe terms, with all the. nations-of the
cartb; We wtiqld b.e jivft, to all—but-' will
be dictatad By none ;. and we rejeft,- with
indignation, the iijea <)f our.even -becotning'
so (Sprave'd aijd corrupt be
fubjeit to Ayi y ' influence or controul
in' the'cHciiCe of our public offifiers* qr in tiie
direction of OXI r
Calfe,"we prefer the
confcquence of war, tp, ijlfh.. degradation
andabafement. ~.... >.'•
. Sensible that a time of peace-and: prospe
rity is the mdft fit season to prepare, for any
exigency, the f«bje£t of..taxation and de
fence will be dtily conficlcrcd by .V? - r and
we (hall receive,' jaleajure,.- an/.-iureher
. comnVunicatirfht 'you miy be plcafed to
make—and be to co-operate with yoiij
in all constitutional measures, tending to el
tablifh juflicr, and pfarrote the general
good. 1
LEXINGTON, ( Rcntucly,) May 20.
A gentleman who left Port William (at
the rnuilth of 'Kentucky) on Sunday last,
informs, that all the Indians that have been
encamped in the neighbourhood of that
place, and who haVe traded there for ni: t
months pall, left their camps last week, and
i returned to their nation, having been sent
j for to go to war, but'Wuuld not inform the-
I inhabitants ajainll wbonv
J The information -received from different
i parts of the country, respecting the damage
j doing by the Pigeous, o.n.the fields of Corn,
) em P> &. c - ' 3 .truly alarming—we do not
Jearn that it is in the recolledlion of any man,
that ever Pigeons "were known to take up
Corn, &a. by the roots, in the manner they
are doing at prefcnt ; many extensive fields
have been entirely destroyed ; nor is it pro
bable thei# ravages will shortly cease, as an
infinite number of young ones ire hatched
and reared in different parts of tills state, of
which two broods havealready.been brought
to perfeftion,
May 24. ,
Capt. Guion with two companies of in'
fantry and one of artillery, failed some time
ago to take command of the garrison at
Natchez ; but if the report be true, and we
have vety little reason to doubt it, that the
Spaniards-are strengthening their garrison
there, some apprehensions may be entertain
ed of hostilities commencing, if they refufe
to give the garrison up.
LONDON, April 14.
/WfeXIVOfG 10 tlx DEAD.
" Art lijou a Spirit of Ejftb, tr CUH r, damn'J."
SIR,.
In tKe Sun of the 18th ir. ft. we have fecn your
address, and which greatly surprised us, wherein
we are atcufed «f those criwei which difgrnee the
name of a Britilh Seaman, and which may preju
dice tho minds of- pur countrymen againlt us ; a*
we are called upon to rqgke known cur wants and
wishes in an olEciat manner.
Therefore we, his Maj fly's nioft loyal fttbje&sy
wifli to make known to ih: world that we have
done.fn. ... >
We, as the fubje.sU ofa loyal country, presented
cur petitio,n to that hon.'Karl who wore the laurel*
of the glorionusfirit of Ju•' e, and who was in the
hearts of Britjfc seamen rcprcfentcd a» their Iriend }
but furry are we to fay, that we found to the con
trary, in,hivnot representing our petitions 'to th«
lords commrlTjotnrs of thea4mirahy.
Eutto conv nee our country at large, that there
is not in' any wife the least spark of republican spi
rit we havecjurfed to be inllrt'd the iiioft privatj
of otir concerns ; sorry olfo we are to r mark tha
words f Frtnth AgtnU ) as our country nay think,
by that assertion.we now take into o»r arms the
people that a Biitifh seaman detests the name ofi
But to the contrary m.c have pur country's good a#
much at heart as any other defcri) t on of men
tvhatever, and that our requcft is no ways injurious
to eur country.
.We a(k for tbat ccm'ortable fubiiflence which
our country can easily bestow, and that those bar.
barities whteh are praiUled by fotne (sorry indeed
we Ihould be to fay the whole, as there are among
us men of every description, both good aiidsrii)
be erased out of-tjitt well inSkuted fervica.
th&futje(fts of your address, coolly as tho
representatives of that body which has so long lain
under the wetl known buoy, wilk yon to come for
■ a fair and manly way-,itc your teal corp*-
r rtkl liatey-and try; fbr one week if the scanty aV-
which Wie ara obliged to fifbfift, will
V.';>t.p y6u in the fpirjted flate.wbich men of our dtf
fcriftioß require, but are at this moment without
the aiiiftance of at Teift tyro thirds of their pay
,Jhnd cur wives and" families languishing in want,
' whilst this country, that- 'abounds with plenty,
• ought to bea bamed at'tljfi word v,ant.
• -To the brave Adm.Kenrjrcnfeldt'a Ghost,
, Buoy of-the Royal George,Spitbead.
P. S. If the clamdrs of jvflice, daily echoing
from (he mouths of the loyal tars, should again a*
wake the fpiric of Rempeitfeldt, le* not his ethereal
but hi 9 corporeal part make itfelf known, and we
will convince him, that those who have made Rri-
UnVi'i Jtutc tbt Main, knew a'fo their dtty to their
fovcieign.
Spitbead, April ho, 1'797»
Bush Hill.
June 13d, 1797.
' | 'HE Public are refpe&fully informed that the
X Evenings Amtifcment of the Gardens for this
week are arrang/Afco-
THIS PRESENT EVENING, FaiDAr,
. .. June ?- 3 d,
N B. Tliey are aljo requsfted to take notice
that the Tavern' and Gardens.\yill-b« publicly Open
for general adthifiien on Tuesdays, Thursdays and
Saturdays.
%* Sundays admittance, one quarter of a doi-
I st, which entitles tha person to its' valup in wines,
Jiijuorc or refrefhmtnts.
Dinnert dref.'d for parti«s at a day's trotite
'' ' _
To be Sold by Auftion,
At the Coffee House on Tliurfday Evening, June
. ajth, at ft o'clock, the following L'v of ground,
situate, on Sixth Street, oppoCte to the State
House Garden : vix.
I,or. I. Beginning at the So»th F.aft corner of
George asd Sixth Streets, 21 feet deep and tjo
wide.
2, a'iji itiing lot I, as feet wide, ijodeep.
3, adjoining lot », H5 feet wide, I lofeet deep.
4, ad|«Miring lot 3, 19. feet wide, 130 feet deep.
5, adj.iining"tK» south ijiue of thj iogani«n library,
l i iVr t'W rdc, 130 feet deep.
Thel'e lots ate-bounded on the waftward by-the
30 feet alley thf: runs from George to Walnut
Oreety of which alley they have the privilege.
finditioiis of faie, qjle fourtb cash, the rem; n
derin approved notes at a 4 and 6 months.
;. v. Fooiniau,-& Co-.Auiftr*«
, i. d'i9th
'Bcjfi F.)igl:Jb Croon Window G/a/s-
A weliafiyrted beft fingliih Crown
Window Gla(s, of tb< forlowrrg fixe* :
it iro' by i
• •f- 1 /II- by 9 '.■■■■
V ll \Z )■ *l2 SOXES.
, . (. 14 by 10
Mi* , , 16 iy .11
{*"• 19 .Vy M - . .
r.l OyiKtwifc frelh Rice, high pjfcef Branny, left
■r£u Hcrf\ iirhsH" HaVrels. t
Sail Cloth, No
Sherry Wine, i *
A' few hundred weight of txeellent Da' ch Fifioi
' -and Rifle Gun powd?ir--?r.4 ) ,
• Thirty Box'ct Chocohtc. .
•• ■•'PBr'Sile fy,
;rt '; - - Samuel Bred, Jtm.
> ' I ViJf' r ' ffo. 89, So7ith Third-Jirett.
T t>n- it. eoiat.
•m 1 ' . 1 1 * . 1 . . . 1 ■
St. Übes Salt.
3000 bushels St tbet SALT, for faie by
Philips, Cramond, Iff Co.
June i».#W;ES'U3SCtUBEft having bf'tn appointed by
1 the Envoy h*traordmaiy aod Matter rleiu-
Wrtiaryof hi» Biitannic MajcAy, General Agent -p
lor »;i.rtine Brilith crrduo.f, and f*b f.rr.cuW »- r
*t»U a» they may fpcciklly in proiecuting an( j
iheir claims More ihe commifl»9fle»* for c*i ryir.g in- an j
to effeft the fttoh article o! the Treaty c( &*.<>* Cftrr- f , r
nricaidXaiiiutioriktutcnkis BrUunnft A qcjty «»3 m (
thf United States •/ America, hereby gives nonce that thc
he has opened his ofti eat his house the! foutfi J* s'tfc
corner ot Chefnut and hfth ftrcew. Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive *ll claims or inductions j>
lor claims with the vouchers and documents theiedt,
tor rtie burpofe of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so ihe rules and orders which thc boaid Way
think proper to prescribe. r a
And as it will be for the interest of all concerned, hy
that the levera! claims be so itated, and fupporc- irr
cd, as to prevent the delay which would arise from po
the necefiity of obtaining further information, or ad- ch<
dit ion a I ntatena)f|from pexfonsrefiding at adiftance, pis
Ihe general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the a ll
direction chiefly of thofe f who, not having employ- ne
ed parttcis.ar agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought iji particular to set forth
ift. The proper defciiption and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, respect-
Jd. The date Or nature of the original contrast or
tiebt. _
3d. When, in what manner, and to what « tcnt »
the creditor or claimant w*s prevented or impeded,
by »lie provision, operation or defect of law, the
deci(ion» and pra&ice of Courts, or leilraint of txe
cuticm, from recovering payment of the debt ia
'qucfiiort. ' /a • j
4th. Thc loss and damage incurred or iultained,
in con sequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, of /
fituatieo, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy frdm lapse of time, or othercaufes impairing gj
she value and lecurity of the debt, which would not
ii&ave so operated if fdeh impediments had notexilled.
And sth The particular grounds and reasons on
vtfiich the claimant maintains, in the teims ©ft »e
treaty, that •« by the ordinary course of judicial pro-
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actual *y
have ?nd receive full and adequate compensation lor
the losses and damages so fuftaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to ug-
reft that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and lupported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as to the exuience J
of the debts claimed, and such other circumstances T
as may be within their own knowledge relpettivcly. 1
And wherever the claimants in (fating the nature ot i r
their evidence (which must in every inlfance be the tl
best of which thc cafe is capable) have occalion to
iefcr to the testimOny of witnel£cs» it will be proper
to apprise the general agent of the names and places
of residence of such witnesses and the faftsto be elta-
bliQied by their testimony. u
Wm. Moore Smith. c \
Philadelphia, June B.h, 1797* im
THE FOLLOWIN6 VALUABLE ti
Traits of Land, 1'
IN thc county of Glynn and state of Georgia, a
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock 0
011 the evening of TueMay the 17th day ot June p
next, aMhe Merchants Cofice-Houfe in this ci- n
ty, unlel's previously disposed of by private sale. it
ift. 7COO acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad- R
joining the commons ofthe town ofßrunlwick,
originally granted to John llowellj and withia
6 i- lies of the Atlantic ocean.
Ill; 15,000 acres oil the head waters ol a
branch of the great Ottilia, originally .granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
id. 50,000 acres oh the waters ofthe.ittle
Satilla river, and of Buflaloe and Alexanders J
Creeks ; the great Satilla road pafles through
these lands, which were originally grailted to
Ferdinand O'Neal. . e
4th; 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally grated ten f
Thomas Spalding. h
It appears by authentic certificates from - y
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major £
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that thc „
body of these lands are not thirty miles irom t
the ocean, and principally .within tide water)
that the Alatamaha is njvigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large t
veilels within ten miles of them ; that they are c
chiefly firit rate pine lands, producing timber ,
equal in quality to any in the state of Georjta,
pofTeffing the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementioned certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andether papers refpeiting -
the title, which is complete and unincumbered, ,
are in the poffeliion of the fuhferibers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay- (
ment will be one third calh, the remaining two
thirds in good negotiable endors d notes, paya- (
Ule in three and fix months after the sale; a
conveyance to be made to each purchaser on the .
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from hint which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31. »797- eodtf '
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Ext raft oi an ait passed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 19th December,
1 791 , entitled, »An ad* for eredting a bridge
over Potowmac river.
«• Jlnd be it enaSed, that the said direflors or
any two »f them ihall and may require any sum
or sum« of mon«y in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be neceflary for carrying on the building of said
bridge ; and after giving three months public
notice, it (ball and may be lawful for the direc
tors to sue for and r«cover in the namo ot the
company such unpaid requilition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time the fame Ihould have
been paid: And the-jegledl or refufal to pay any
luch requisition afrcr public notice (hall have
been given at least for three months in all the
newspapers herein before enumerated, lhall have
the effedt to forfeit alt preceding payments made
on the (hare or shares so neglefled or retufed to
be paid ts the use and benefit of the company,
mation of such of the stockholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—t'hey are as follow : On the ift November,
"1795, io dollars, on the loth May, 1796. 4«
dollars ; an the »oth July, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
the ill September, 17*96, 40 doHars, and on the
ift November, I 79 6 » 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance »f this advertife
meut (three month.) the law will be carried
Into rigid stod complete effedl againlt all aelin-
N quents. .
By order of the Direttors,
WALTER SMITH, Trtafurer.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797- iaw.jm
WHEREAS myMrife, Mary Smith, has
abtconded from my bed and with
o«t any just canfe, this to forewarn all persons
from trulling her on my account, a* I will pay
110 debts of her contrafling from the dite here
of. JOHN SMITH.
June io.
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna Saufa^es,
Of A SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Tn be fold »t No. 199 South Fiout-Sirff.
4 April io' eotf
| .11 1
The CorhmifTioners „
FOR carrying irita efTeil the T WJiNTY-rtftfiT
Article of the Treaty of Frlendlhip, Linuts, p./
and Navigation, between tils Catholic Majesty *-
and the United States of America, hereby gWe in- |j rK
f-rmatlon to ail thejvin concerned, —That,.
in order tp terminate aU difference?, on account of
the lefles (\illaincd by the Citizens ct the th itcd pnl
States, irt confc4 u ° l,ce their Vefllls apA Car- fen
goes having taken by the hit Catli- thc
olic Majcfty, during the lite War between Spain fth
1 and FVancc, that they are ready to deceive (att?4ie eili
| Office, between thc teh and one o'Mock, Qi
| daily) all complaints and applications, authorized re s
hy the said Article, during EicdTfecK Month 3
trom the day of the date hereof, andjrhat they have j
power to examine all such persons as some before
theiri, jnoath or touching the com- ni(
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
all written testimony, authenticated in such man-
ner as they (hall think proper to require or admit. £
By Order of the Cotamiffioners,
PETER LOHRA, elc
Secretary. Th
C mmiffioners Office, Ao. 1091 Mulberry
reel, Philadelphia, May 1 ;/£, 1797-
20—$4 w
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
JnJl Imported, llr
In the flip* William Penn and Star*, from I. on Jen, and
now opening by ne
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
Market street P
An elegant alfortment of lilk, cotton ani thread
Stockings
Silk, cotton an! thread Gloves >
Pantaloons, Ike. &c. i 1
Likewise, ahandfome alTortment of men s, wo
men's, and children's-faihionable Hats, fuitablcfor
the Season.
A cenfiderable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats assorted in cases, intended for country stores
May 2}. taw
JAMES DAVENPORT r.
O Efpeftfully informs the Citizens of the United
IvStates that he will make Machines for Spinn- . 1
ing Hemp, Flax, Tow, Cotton, Wool, m.inufac- >'
turing Twines, and weaving, by watar, on the '■
moll reasonable Terms.
A ManufaiStory on this principle, he flatters
himfelfwill meet with very general patronage, as
the Machines will be made and delivered, complete
ly furnifhed, /vr.Spindle or Piece ; nor will any
chargebemadefor his Patent Rights,but Liberty will
be given to the Purchaser to use them ; the great
inconvenience of employing Workmen in the erec
tion of them will be avoided,ind theperfon wishing - 1
to extend them will be able exactly to calculate the "
expcnce. He engages to set them to work, and a|
alio inftruit or caule to be inftru<aed, any person ci
or persons, in any part of the Union, who may t!
purchase these Machines, in their principles and
method of ereaion, such purchafcrs paying travel
ing expences.
For terms, application may be made at No. 74 d
. Market Street, Philadelphia.
* *lt ii requested that all letters may be peftpaid.
June 10 *6t-
Mu/tcal Injlrument Manufactory, <
No. 167, Arch-Street. g
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand, f'
fidvboard, pier table and fijuare piano forte
maker from London, returns thanks to his friends g
i and the public, for their liberal encouragement, g
and hopes that by his assiduity and attention to ev-
ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance
I qf their favors. Piano fortes made on the newest .
and m'oft approved plans, with pedals, pateßt, 11
fwcll, apd French harp ftoj), which he flattei s r
himfelf will ue found on rrial by unprejudiced 0
1 judges, to be if not superior to any import- t
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru c
ment purchased «f him, if not approved of in c
1 twelve months, he will exchange. e
a
' N. B. All kinds of Musical instruments made, >
: tuned, and repaired with the great eft accuracy, 1
' dispatch, and pn the most reasonable terms, lor (
ready money only. I
~ ' c
Second bind Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
I May le. .
For Sale,
» ♦ 7
f That well known place, called Vandegrift's
t F F R R Y,
- rvN Neftiaminy creek, 18 miles from Phila
-0 \J ladelphia, on the New York post road,
- containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
a premises are a large two lUry stone house occu
e .pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
d chen, a large frame (table with a good threlhing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation for a gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny to its jumftion wiih the Delaware, and thence
- across to the Jersey Ihore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
,r For terms apply to the Snbfuriber,
3 MORDECAI LEWIS.
' Vay 24. 3tawtf,
To be fold at Public Vendue,
or To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
m William Evans, the lign of the Indian
:h Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 15th
ne jay »f October next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
Asout seven tboufand acres of land,
lic the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reiller's-town and Weftminftcr,
II e commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a ccnfidsrable part of
these lands) the traft begins about 17 miles
,ve from Baltimore, within a few handred yards
"y of laid Reifter's-town, and extends to the dif
ivt tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
:^c more, and li«e on the main falls of Patapfico
lve river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
Lt * e be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
1 *JS three hundred acre. There is a large propor
'■ tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
rlot some of them highly improved, with excellent
l^e buildings and fine grifs.
« r » Also,
A tradt of seven hundred acres of
t h e land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
j s Bladenlburg, esteemed very good for Grass.
mc Richard Ponfonby.of Bladenlburgh, will Ibew
!f e . this land to any person incliaed to purchase.
ied ALSO '
lin- A traft of land ®f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It i« nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeil, from which may be fcen the
—" city of Walbingtcn, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-t»wn, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Ricbard Ponfon
3ns by, of Bladenlburg, will also (hew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatell
:rc " p lr t of the purchase money, ihe terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
!_ May 8 w 3 m
C O T T t) N.
A few ba'esjuil arrived, for sale by
JOHN CLARK,
No. 55 North Water Street.
June 10. eot^'
tOLUMBIA HOUSE j(;
Boarding School for yotmg Ladies. I
TV /rKS. GKOOMBRIDGE with much pleal- I
IVI ure and refpeft, return, her sincere ac
knowledgement tor the liberal encouragement
she ha# received during four years rclnlchce IB
Philadelphia J and assures her friends and the
public, so fir front intending to dt-cline her
school, (he has made a superior arrangement for or
the more convergent accommodation of her f or
Tcholars.—Every branch of ufcful and polite
education is particularly attended, to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpetfive p'rofffiions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The GtuMion is perfeAly healthy ; and made Ar
iriore agreeable by an txtenfive garden and lot
ot ground adjoining the hoitle.
An elegant House in Arch-street.
TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
elegant House at the corner of Arch and Ninth-street.
There are two drawing rooms and one dining room
—the largefl is 31 feet by 26—and two are To con
nected by folding doors as to make but one. Alio, T
five bed 100 ms, beside five in the ganet, well fmifh- 1
ed tor (crvants. There are ftablci and a coac house, jjy
with every convenience for a family* Enquire at No.
29, in Norrti Seventh-street, or at No. 218, Arch-
Also to be rented for the summer season, a small
neat house and gaiden about 3 i-a miles from the
city, with (tables and coach house, Enquire as above.
June 6. Baw 3 w
Pennfylyania Population Com
pany.
XTOTICE is hereby given to the Shareholtj
i> ers, that a further assessment of fifteen
dollars is levied on each share, payable in the
I following instalments —viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ill of June.
One quarter ou the ift September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea-
I surer of the Company at the Company's Office, _
No. S3 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
I limes above mentioned ; and they are further f
informed that on their negletfting to pay the 1
lame as above directed, the fevsral forfeitures 1
dire£tcd by the Conftitutioii, willl be exited. L
By order of the Board, v
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer.
May it § lm v
Notice. f
I A LLperfons indebted to the Estate o£ Sarah ti
-ZjL Marshall, deceased, are requested to make it
immediate payment, and those that have demands fj
again 11 said estate, are desired to bring in their ac
counts properly attested forfettlement, to either of
I the fubferibers. Christopher Marshall, Jr.
Caspar W. Haines,
Abraham M. Garrigues,
I Administrators to the Estate of Sarah Marlhall,
j deceased. June 3 aaw3w
TO BE SOLD," (
A valuable three (lory Brick House ;
I QITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
I O Pennsylvania, the lot on which it stands, to-
I gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex-
I tends to Goforth-ftreet. The house is about 50
1 feet in front en Lodgealley, and about 41 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth
' street, being a street which leads from Chefnut
[ street and Carter'»<*lley into Dock-street at the .
! horse market. The house confiftj of ten lodg-
1 ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
| I roonu, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
I two fire plac.s, two parlours and a large kit-
I chen, with extensive cellars und(p» and garrets
I over the who Is, a privilege of a vacant lot
I ef ground to the eastward between this house
I and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
, I yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
, I lot, and a frame stable and dwelling house on
r I Goforth-ftreet. The premil'es now rent for
I 1 8 per annum. To t>e fold clear of allin-
I cumbrances.
I For terms apply to "John Clement Stacker.
April to 3awtf , J
I For Sale,
4 I AN ELEGANT AND VERY COMMO
DIOUS
1, Three-story brick House, ,
And Lot of Ground thereunto belongings 1
' I Arch, above Seventh-street, being a high, plea- £
IJL fant situation and g®od nfighbourhood. The said j
£ I house is twenty-fix feet in frout by 48 feet in depth j
I and a piazza twenty feet in depth, and 2 story kitchen j
•n I withpantries 31 feet in depth, in the piazza there is a
z- ] commodious stair cafe with mahogany railing, and
l- l there is also a back stair cale; said house isfrniftird
:e lin a complete and modern (tile, with marble
I chimney pieces, stucco cornices, mahogany doors,
3 I &c. The said tot is 381-2 feet in biesdth, about
1 300 feet in depth, and has two fronts; on said lot
I is a large brick coach house and stable, well finifhed,
] and plaiftered, a pump of good water in the yard,
I and about the premises there are many convenicncies
I t®o tedious to enumerate.
I The above property will be fold clear of all i«i
r# I cumbrances, and the terms of payment made e*fy to
in I the purchaser.
th I For further information apply to
d ' JOHN ELLIOTT CRESSON,
No, 144, South Second-flreet.
J une 9' fm<wZ<u> I
"f Venereal Complaints,
es "pUNCTXIALLY attended to in every stage of
I 1 that disease, without the use mercury or
'f" 1 restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple. on
ti- 1 application at No. iij, Chefnut-ftreet, opposite
co I the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ill I ter-flreet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, whiNre
to I he has opened an office for the bitter acconimoda
jr- I tion of his patients.
ft, I But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Doflor Morgan
:nt I pledges himfelf, that nofyftem of cure (hpwevtr
I specious) can be effeitual without mercury, and
I that all the known rules of praflice for thete two
r I centuricspaft, and united experience affirms, that,
I any fubftitu'.e for it is but negatory, and any mode
°f I of practice to the contrary mull be futile and de
»fs. I ceptious.
ew I Nevertheless, he undertakes, however compli-
I cated the cafe, to effeil a cure without inconve-
I nicßcc or injury to the patient's constitution, and
I in time not generally experienced or expeiSed.
U^ s I NB. Regular attendance at the office in Water
jeS j street . from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
•e" 1 ing until One, and from three o'clock in the even
ing, until seven bnt any ohertimeat his dwelling
f. e house, in Chefiiut-Xtreet.
sr.l j-" M
on- I
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
te ji | THE Mail for B.liimore will be doled at this of-
I (ice every morning (Sundays excepted) it half
I o'clock.
1 | The Mail for Boston will be dosed every day
! (Sunday s excepted) at i a o'clock noon ; and
I The Mail for Frederica, Milford, Clowes, Daufco-
I rough, Delaware, Horntowu, Accomack Court-Houfa
> .nd Northampton Virginia, will be
| closed every Monday morning it lia.f past 7 ° clock.
". May 33.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaaured as uf««l» J*.
Ginger and Pepper ground clu
Shelled or Pearl Barley Stai
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter put
Taunton and Bwiton Ale . . , j by
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled, b(j(
or by the pipe, quarter-caflc or gallon—fuiuble un<
for exportation or home confumptioß f cr i
For Sale by am
John Hawotth. , out
No. 98 south Front street.
May 18 . tl, 4 w
Imported in the Jhip Pigou, fpt .
And for fate by Joljn Morton, No. 116, South V¥ j.
Fronfc-ftreetj fta
Hyson
Hyson Skin C T EAS
Yowij Hyson (
Imperial J
April 20. rot s "
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St. /
Thomas, and for file on rea foiuble terras u
by the package
Platillas Royal
Haerlem arid German linens „
RoueTis i>
Poll and Pro Patm Paper «
\Vafers «
Quills ■>
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles '•
Coffee Bags "
He has also for Sale, "
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use „
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality „
Coffee in Bags and Hoglbeads u
Jamaica Spirits «
Conneflicut Turpentine Soap <•
Window Glass «
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cattw "
Hosiery "
April 18. 4® w
r —— «.
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, thit a further affeffnent of nin f, dol
lars is levied on each share, paytble as follows, p
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the ift of July next.
Which they are requefttd to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. S3, North Fourth-street, agreeably to the j
times above mentioned j and they are further jj
informed, that on their negle<£ting to pa the Q
fame as above directed, the fev«ra I forfeitures
will be exacted.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treasurer. r
May . djot r
For Sale, c
ON board the (hip Molly, John Frost, master j
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUiiBN'S WARE, well assorted,
By PHILIP NICKLiiN Co.
WHO HAVS IN STORE, ALS® FOR SAUE, 1
ioo Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars ,
Imperial and > T £ #
Hyson )
17 tubs Quicksilver
a chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Matiehefter Goods well assorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufliuets,
dimities, &c. a Trunks black sewing filfc,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
10 Tons sheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and sharp points,
London particular and ') MadSira Wine in
India market J P'P" an<l hhtts.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tctitriffe Wii»e,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 12 bundles writing dates,
I box ink-stands & note presses,
Sail canvas asserted No. I a 8.
May 4. dtf
Lancaster, Harrijburg Carli/le,
Shtppenfiurg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnership which has for some time fiib
-1 lifted between Mathias Slough of Lancafler, and
William Geer, is now diflolved but, not as M.
- Slough inGnuates to the public without just cause ;
1 as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
-1 je6t from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
1 December last. a recital of which is sot now deem
-3 ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
j more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have;
c the pernfal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
'J at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
t Geer is not perfectly juftifiable in attaching him-:
[ felf to any other person in the prosecution .of the
l' Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippcnf
s Mrg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
L- public were pleased to confer on the firft effort ip
o this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witroer, is determined
to profecutc and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige th& pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurt«nance to
render the palTage fcfe and commodious, inform
thofs wno wilh to patronize and encourage the.
, undertaking, that they can take their feats at
0 George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,'
)r Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
,D and Friday, to procsed to Harrifburg,
te Carlisle and Shippcnfburg. The fare as -hitherto
eft bliihed.
lC For the further accoAmtdation of the public,
a ~ a Stage will ft art every Wednesday from the house
in of" Sarou' l Elder, ih Harriiburg, arrive at Sun
bur- ill Northumberland county, every Thursday,
, an d re turn from theoce and arrive at Harriiburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined /pr
at Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed on Moh
'ee d * s - WILLTAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. »7, 1797-
li- N. B. This Line of Stages ft arts from tha
e- house of William Ferroc, in Lancaster, on every
nd Tucfday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clo;k, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
ir- Mr. Samuel Elder in Harriiburg every Wedncf
n- day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
n- trick Cochran's in Shippcnfburg, and returns
ng from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as.in its tour from Philadel
phia. " rwt
~ STICKNEY's PATENT ARCH BRIDGE.
ANY person desirous of information refpefl
ing this nevr conftruition, way obtain it
1 7 without delay by application pr. Vtter, or »tfc
erwife, to John Stickney, merchant of Worccf
*ay ter, (Massachusetts) who will make known
the many advantages arising from this manner
' of building, and upon application he will either
lU | ) S vend a patent right, or atteudptrfonally to su
perintend the building of any Uidg? required.
t June 10, 179.7- *eojw.
The Commissioners
TTOR carrying into effedf the sixth article of the
Jl'treaty of amity,commerce and navigation, con
cluded bet we \1 his Britannic majesty and the United
States of America, on the 19th day of November,
1794, having this day conftitutcd their Board,
pursuant and"agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by giye notice, that they are ready to proceed to
business accordingly ; and they desire that all claims
under the said article (which so far as the fame de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
They further desire that all such claims may not
or.lyXtate in what manner the fcvcril cases come
within the description of the said article, but alto
fet forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpeAively undertake tsfub
ftantiate the fame.
Extrad from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledgcd by divers Eritilh nier- .
« chants and others hi', majefts's fubjeSs, that I
•' debts to a confid. rable amount, which were bona
" fide contracted, before the ftill remain
" owing to them by citizens or inhabitants ot the
" United States; and that by the operation ol va
" rious lawful impediments, since the peace, not
'• only the full recovery of the said debt» has been
" delayed, but also the value and fecunty thereof
" have been in feyeraf instances impaired and jdT
»' ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the Britilh creditors cannot bow
" obtain and a dually have and receive full and
" adequate connpenfation for the losses and datna
« ges which tney have thereby fufiained : It is a
" greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tion for such losses and damages cannot for what
'i ever reason be a&u illy obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary court:
" of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
« creditors: but it is diftincftly understood, that
11 this provision is to extend to such losses only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
« aforefaid, and is not to extend to losses occa&on
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or pthcr
" cairfes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
« existed •, jior to such losses or damages !i» have
" lieea occasioned by the manifeft delay, or negli
<• or wilful omission of the claimant.
By order of the Board, j
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary. '
Philadelphia, Commiflioners' Office,
No. 3 feuth Sixth-street, May 29,
1791- J 6—<>""
A Cow Stolen
FROM the owner at the corner of Ninth
and Arch streets. She is a deep red
brindle with some white, about ten years
old and very gentle. . The person who se
cretes her had belt turn her out, as, if legal
■evidence can be obtained, he may expedl a
rigorousprofeCution. TWO DOLLARS
reward will be given to any person who will
deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a
gainst the person keeping her, that he may
j be convi&ed of the faft. Apply at
No. 21^,'An.cu Street.
> June 9. taw3 w
' NOTICE.
THE Xubfcriber having sent by the IhipTNancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank stock, to wit :
No. 46,005, to 26,014, inclusive, for three
(hares each—and tfce said vessel having been cap
tured on her intended iroyag* to England, which
j will most probably occasion the loss of the said
certificates, gives this public notice,
'' That he shall apply at the proper offices f«r a re
newal of tho»i, and that means have been taken
to prevent any improper transfer.
Henry Philips,
No. 114, South Front-ftrfet.
June I. sawfiw
Houfhold Furniture.
NOW fellipg by .private lale, No. 17 Dock
ftreet—confifting©> cliairs, tablci, looking
glafies, bureaus, hand and fire irons, biedftcadi,
leather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, Sec, The
Whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
f The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
June 2 $
To Let,
THE BUILDING now occupied by the Ban*
or the United Statu. For terms en.
>- quire of Edward Garrigues, No. 39, Cherry-ikroet.
id N. B. Also a Urge, convenient Cellar in a good
1. situation : Apply as abeve.
t; June 15 cot s
■h City of Washington.
* SCHEME
of. Of the Lottery, No. 11,
" For the Improvement of the Federal City.
' A magnificent dwcUing-houfe^jo,oca dollar!,
& cafli 30,000, ire
le 1 ditto 15,000 & cast 25,006 40,00*
f ! 1 ditto 15,000 & r,a(h J5-,oQ» jo-,000
I ditto 10,000 & cast) 10,000 »o,»eo
ie' 1 ditto 5,000 & eafh 5,000 10,000
i(i 1 ditto s,cpo & ca(h 5,800 10,000
th 1 cash prize of j 0,000-
•d » do. 5,000 each, ire • 10,000
it- 10 do. 1,000 - - 10,090
b- 30 do. 500 - - ic,eoo
00 do. 100 - - xo,ooo
ed 200 do. 50 * - 10,000
to 4<po do. 25 - ~ j 0,000
m 1,000 do. 2® • 20,000
15,00 c do. to • 150,000
at
e ' '6,739 Prizes.
p a J 33,*61 Blanka.
rto 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, <8o,oo»
afe NB- Tofivouc these whs may take a quan
■ tity of Ticket!, the prize of 40,000 ioliars wUI he
• the ia st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
i J' hut ON* :
And approved rotes, fecurir.g payment in eitfcf'
)n monsy or prizes, in ten days alter wilt
he received sot atiy.nuobcr not less than 30 tick
et!.
This Lattery wil> afford an elogant fpccimen.of
theprivate buildings to be criifed in tKc City »)'
' IWalliingtou—Two beautiful designs we already;
tT y leleded for the entire fronts on two of the public
r0 " squares; from these drawing- it ispropofed toereci
° twoccntreand f our corner buildings as toon as fvlt
,c( fible after this lottery is.(old, and to copvey them,
"' i ' when complete, to the fortunate adventurtre, ia
m ' the manncrdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel
tte Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
' e '" be made to defray thenet«ffary expenfetof print
' ing, &c. and the i'urplus will be made a part of
7*" the fund intended for the Nutional University, to
** be eiecled witl.in the city of Wafiiington.
:dl- The real fecuritiesgiveu Tor the payment of the
I ' l Prizes, are held by the President and two Dircdl
't- ori of the Bank of Columbia, ami are valued at
mere than half the amount of the lattery,
wn • SAMUEL BLODCKT.
Ncr .J, Tickets may be had at the Bank of CoUun
her bia ; of James Well & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
fu- Oilman, Bolfon ; of John Hspkin-, Richmond ;
•ed. and of Richard W«ll«, Cooper'; Ferry.
tpwf