ette,/ States, Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1474.J
For Sale cr Charter,
y THE SHIP
WARREN,
fjsfs Benjamin Church, Majier.
' ' OF about 28 .Tto hi burthen. F.r>-
- qpirc of
Jefe Robert Wain- r
May 16 .
For Freight or Charter,
To .any part of Europe,
Stvecfi/h Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl (\. Ehsman,
BOUT 350 tons bar then, in this port; and
JTL ilfo the Danifli Ship FREDERICK fUI.IUS
K.\US, of 450 tons, now lying In Hampton Roads.
Apply to JOHN V AUG HAN.
May aft. tuthf6t
JohnTarris, master.
AOREAT part of her cargo is engaged, aiid
flie will fail in ten days. For freight or pal-
Tage apply to capt. Taint, at Willings & Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May §
For London,
wilujmpenn,
'/jiuss 'Josiar, Majicr.
WILL fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or passage apply to
fejje Es 3 Robert Wain.
The owners of Goods in the (hip William
Penn, are reqoefted to lend their permits on board
as i'o 0 n a ; poriibia.
May 19 §
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Entirprize, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's -wharf,
CONSITING OF
514 hhds. of Claret 2
ii; cases of ditto -o
100 cases ofStteetOil •-£ -9
no pipes London pr.of \ BRANDy _ | 2
10 pipes of Holland proof 3 J w
Apply to
Wharton Ess Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
f a t> burthen abotit fifteen hun
barrels, is in complete or
der, jnd will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply a» above.
Mas *4 §
Lofl—A Gold Bracelet,
Marked S. H. with a double Chain. Any
perfo| who may have found it, and will return
it at No. 47, Penn-ftreet", will be handsomely
rewarded.
May 017. dtf
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from business, invites all
who have anv note, bill, .bond or acceptance
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and these
who wilh to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable discount.
JAMES SWAN.
May ii. dzw.
Dorchetlcr, ncarßofto/i, 16th May 1797.
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE ia hereby the Share Hold
ers, that a further alTelTment of nine DOL
LAR s is levied on each ihare, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
. Three Dollars on the lit of July next.
Which they are requefled to pay 10 the Treafu- |
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. J3, North Fourth-street, agreeably to the v
times above mentioned j and they are further
informed, that on their neglefling to pav the
fame as above direfled, the fev«ral forfeitures
will b/exafled.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Trelfurer.
May 27. djot
To Let,
And poffcffion given in twt iveehs, 11
A good 3 ftor.y Brick Honfe,
With hack buildings—No. 43, Spruce-street.
Apply at No. 109 Sprnce-llreet.
May »6 §6t
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho mas, and for sale on reasonable terms
by thepaekage,
Platillas Rovat
Hacrlem and German linens
Kouens
I'oft and Pro Patria Paper -
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
3eft Red Clover Seed
OM Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
TenerifTe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hoglbeads
Jamaica Spirits
Conne&tcut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of bell Patent, Silk and Cottan
Hofierv
April 18. 48 \r
Received by the Indodan, "
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice con filling ox the following
Coafl Goods, viz.
Biue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. fi-ie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
took Muslins
WILLING £jC FRANCIS.
March »7, 3aw,
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants* Coffee house, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock the'
evening, if not before disposed of at private
laic,
4°>93 1 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Filhing creeks, in Wafti
ington county, Pennsylvania. 'rhefoi! is remark
ably fertile ; and hefides o large body of meadow,
there are conliderahje improvements on the pre'
mifes. These land/ were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of the purchase money, a r-afgn- '
abl« credit will be given for the residue. Enquire j
of the printer.
M *y 15- . JtS
5 The Commiin-jners
FOR carrying into effed the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of th« Treaty of Friendship, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to *ll Persona therein concerned,—That,
in order to terminate ad differences, on account of
the losses sustained by the citizens of the United
States, in consequence of tieir Veflels and Car
goes having b-en taken by the Subjetfsof His Cath-
J ohc Majesty, during the '.ate War between Spain
- na Francc ' tllat thc 7 are reid y to receive (at their
, Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months
Irom the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all luch persons as eome before
them, on oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
all written teftimory, authenticated in such man
ner as they ihall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commit fionerSf
PETER LOHRA,
ISecretary.
Co mmiffioners Office, AO. 109, Mulberry
rets, Philadelphia, May fjtb, 1797.
20—
Just received,
And for sale by Ilaar. Harvey, jun. No. 5, South
Water-street,
A parcel of prime Ricej also,
Trinidad and Cayenne Cotton
Coffee in Barrel* and Bags
Spanish Hides and Beef.
4th mo. «J, I 7 gi. d4W
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
be held at the Company's Office, on Monday,
10 o'clock, the I2thjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT, Sec'ry.
May la. fr 4 w.
i
NOW LANDING,
From on board of the (hip GFORGE BAR- '
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alester, from '
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
Coffas Punjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
Guzeenahs India Calicoes
Emerties Cotton Checks '
Mamoodics Mulmuis
Sahans Red and Blue Beraigou
hkfs '
Tickerics Patna do.
Jollas Santipore do.
Carridarries Plain, striped and flower
ed fine muslins
Maragung«s Ginghams
Baftas, various forts Taffeties
Sattln Romals Baudanno red hk(.
ALSO,
300 Casks Sugar J
40 Boxes do. f
165 Bags do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper F
40,0100 lb. weight Ginger
10 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes EalMndia Spirits
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
May 4. dtf
For Sale,
ON board the ship Moll?, John Froll, mailer
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUEEN'S WARE, well afTorted,
By PHILIP NICKLIN Co.
WHO HAVF. IN STORK, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Imperial and ) T E . .
Hylon S
17 tubs Quick (i Iver ai
ichefts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests MaHchefter Goods well afTorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, muflinets,
dimities, &c. 2 Trunks black sewing {ilk,
180 Crates queens ware, well afTorted,
10 Tons sheet lead, 0
Nails afTorted, flat and (harp points, «
London particular and ) Madeira Wine in
India market 5 pipes and hhds. rt
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine, ai
10 pipes choice Port ditto, c
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 12 bundles writing slates,
1 box ink-stands & note prefles,
Sail canvas afTorted No. 1 a 8.
May 4. dtf 1
c
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A QUANTtTY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarttr Chells bell
SpS"*} «*» "
Muscovado Sugars in Hogflieads, and M
Cofiee in Tiefces o,
March 7. || tf A[
Erfkine's View of the War. in
JUST PUBLISHED, Yi
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. C:
No 40 Smith Second street, Li
[Price 31 Cents] Si!
A View of the Caujes and Confequen-
ces of tbe present War with France. p e
By the Usaorable Thomas Esskine.
M»yii $
By John Fenno, N* up Chefnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA.- TUESDAY EVENING, MAT 10,1797.
Milikiery Room,
he A'o. 136 MarketJtreet.
ite
Tmtss chsxrtal
AKES an early opportunity of acquainting
h . w her Friends that Ihe has-received by the
k" r P f NN • a varief y °( NEW MlL
iv, &c. which Ihe hopes to be able to
e mew them m a few days.
>n Ma y'B s 3 ot
n<- ' .
re ♦
Now Landing,
Jit Pratt's luharfy
FROM on board the ship Thomas ChiJklev,
Capt. Rafer, from BourdeauXj
T in calks
V>< Ditto in cases
s ' White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
t For Sale by
>f Run die Leech.
d May 15 j
Printed Calicoes.
ir JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No, 2 Cbf/nut-Street 9
d Have for Sale
j FIFTY'TRUNKS neatly afTorted, very low on
€ short credit.
e March/6. r;
• r —l—
: Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta ail Order from the Orphans' Court,
uf'ill be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at' Cranberry, on
Wednfday, tbe 14th day of June next, aft-tbflt valuable
REAL EST A TE, late belonging to Rev. Gilbert
T. Snotvden, dece ifed, lying in and near jCranhtrry, in
tbe county of Middlesex, ton-nflnp of Soi&j
Hate of Nctu Jersey, vpo'n the lower flagi road leading
from Philadelphia to Nnv Tort. A frame
house in a beautiful and healthy situation } jjair.ted u/hite,
•with Venetian ivindoiv Jhuttersy thiity fat front ahd
l thirty eight feet deep, two rooms ivitb a % lndfome halt or
entry on ihe frjl floor t three rooms on the jteend floor and '
two well-fini/hed garrets. In the rear of the house is an
excellent two-flory building conft/Hng of a dining-room for
wottk people, spacious pantries and a large kitchen, with
every convenience, and over these are three (hatnbers for
servants. To the right is an additional building confifimg
of a chamber below and a library above—-under the whole
. are very fine cellars paved ivitb brick. Thi honfe is en
tirely new and finifbed with tafie. Every room is hung
with bells that lead both to the kitchen and the fervunts'
apartments : there is a pump in the yard; and a Jlone
- and brick pavement round the whole house, which is enclof
l ed with a handsome railing, with three gates in front. ,
, The farm confifls of one hundred and ftxty seven acres. (
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence; a large barn, fla
bles, carriage-house, eow-houfes, Isfc. all lute, and built
in tbe befl manner : with a young orchard of aoo grafted
trees. Nearly adjoining fa>d farm is a lot (f Woodland
of tbe befl quality, containing 37 acres. Also a traft of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, containing one hun
dred and fifty acres, three-fourths meadow and the red ex
cellent timber. This will be fold in lots or together, as
t»ill befl fait tbe pur chafers.
rhe payments, one third cajh—one third in one year—
and the remaining third, one year fallowing,, with inter eft '
on the two lafl payments, and approved feeurity.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,
Esq. ur Dr. Ralph Lott, Cranberry ; of Jfaac Snowden,
at Princeton ; or of Isaac Snowden, fun. N0.J41 South
Second flreet, Philadelphia.
May 25 §6mwftS '
Richard Bay ley Co. J
Late John Whitesides & Co. 1
No. 136 Market-street, c
HAVE received per the ihi|>s William Penn and
Star from London, a large and fafluonable as- f
fortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons/ of the newest
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chistzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and em!>roider*d
Do. tambour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do, tamboured, of a very superior quahtjr
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs I
Dimities and muflinets
Damaflc table-linen, in fctts and in the piece n
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Ruflia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Iriih Linens
Long Lawns r 4 nd Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured I
Ribbons and Gloves /
Crapes and Gauzes g
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
shapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Lin«n-Drapery
and Haberdafkery line.
May 22 §*ct
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be clofcd at this of
fice every morning (Sundays excepted) at half past 7
o'clock. e .
The Mail for Boston will be closed every day t€
(Sundaysexcepted) at 12 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederica, Milford, Clowes, Dagfbo- C]
rough, Delaware, Horntown, Accomack Couit-Houfe r
and Northampton Court-Houie, Virginia, will be
closed every Monday morning at hall past 7 o'clock.
May 23. * lgt
JuJl Imported\ f€
IN the (hip Woodrop Sims, Capt. Hodgfon,
from Canton, and for sale by the Subfcrib- ' e
er, at Mrs. Kinfty's, corner of Second and n:
Pine-street,
Hyfos c
Hyson Skin all frelh and of m
Young Hyson and C excellent quality. -
Gunpowder j
Alio,
A few Nankeens.
C.HAIGHT. T
April 17 dtf X
' ' m
Just Arrived, ar
In thefchooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St ™
Thotaas, and tor sale by the fubfertber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels. tUI
St. Croix Rum in bhds.
And Lajuira hides. h;,
ALSO OH HAND, j U(
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga ed
Hyson Skin Tea'.. Wines. mi
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes, tw
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese.
Luteftringi. Do. Glass ware.
Silk! Hankercliiefs. China Ware. t ul
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds. dil
Cotton in l>a]e«. Kheubarb. , rei
Peruvian Bark. Qiiitkfilver, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May »d, dut. ]
Canal Lottery,
A r «. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery,
Authorized by an aft, entitled, " an aft to
h" enable .he Prefidcnt and Managers of the
L> Schuylkill and Sufquehannah navigation, to
to raise; by way of Lottery, rite fiim of Four
Hundred Thousand Dollars, for the purpose
o{ completing the works, in their afts of
incorporation mentioned."
- ' J)ollars
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars, 20,0<®
I of ten thousand dollars, io,oco
y, S of four thousand dollars A each, to
be paid to tbe poffeflors of the five
numbers firft out Of the wheel on the
lafi day's drawing, at which time there
Dull not be less than 500 numbers un
drawn, zo,coo
10 of two thousand dollars each, 20,ce0
20 ot one thousand dollars each,. 20,000
A3,of five hundred dollars each, 21,500
___ 100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,dc<»
100 of one hundred dollars each, xo.oeo
220 of fifty dollars each, n,cco
29500 of five dollars each, 147,500
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each.. 300,000
Si* dollars for each ticket will only be de
manded at the time of fule
~ All prizes (hall be paid ten days after rhe
drawing is finiflied, upon the demand of the
pofiellbr of a fortunate ticket, fuhjeft to a de
duction of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes aj are not demanded vrithin 12
months after the drawing is finiftwd, of which
■' public notice will be given, {ball be considered as
'' -relinquifyed.for the die. of the Canal and applied
" accordingly.
'
S ' •
„ At a I.fteiltig of the Prefidcnt and Mana
go's of the- Schuylkill and; SwfqoebiiUa
Canal rJavigation—and the Prcfideot and
r Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill i
r -Canal, • * •
r Krfolved, That Jofeph;Ball, John Stekmiet?, '
I 'Standi(h Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, 1
r John Miller, jus. and William Montgorhery, '
» be a committee to arrange and diretft the snodc
f of disposing of the tickets j which committee 1
- shall deposit this money in bank, to be carried '
r to the credit of an account to be opened for '
the Lottery. 1
e
Tickets at fix dollars each to be had of tie
• managers, or at the canal office, near the bank
of the United States.
Philad. April 17, 1797. 2aw
\ Jonathan Harvey,
No. 106 SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
r HAS FOR SALE, ,
; A general affortmentaf Dry Goods "
—Amongst which are—
A few boxes Irish Linens, i
| May 22 vwfim
To be Sold, ,
• A three Jlory brick House, with suitable back
buildings ; j
SITUATE in Vine-street, No. 88, completely *
finiflied, and free of ground-rent: I; his a t
neat back yard, in which is a cistern, and new I
pump far rain water—commodious cellars are un H c
derneath the whole, in whicli is a dry well bricked r
up, that will hold ice. This property is wellcal- t
culated for a boarding house. For particulars ap
ply at the premises.
Immediate pofftffion will be given, or so as to
suit a purchaser. '
iiusH Hill.
Me/frs. Bates and Darley, (
Of the NEW THEATRE,
RSfpeitfully inform the citizens of Philadelphia
and its ef.virons, that they have taken the
manor houfc and grounds of Buth MiU (the pro
perty of William Hamilton, Esq.) and are now
preparing te open them by Subscription, for the
general accommodation and amusement of the pub
lic, under the name of the
PennfylvaniaGardens and Hotel. c <
Particularly during the Summer season, will be V
given (three tin- es per week) ai
CONCERTS m
Of I oca/ and Injlrvmrntal Mvjic, in
After the manner of the Public Gardens Paris, P 1
Vauihall, London, &c. &c. th
The Entertainments for the ensuing summer f«a- f°
son, fojitivrfy to commence di
THE FIRST WEEK IN JUNE. °<
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION. b<
One hundred Subscribers, nt one hundred dollars
each. The money to be repaid the fubferibers at
ten annual payments of ten dollars each. cr
And each fobfciiber to hold a free ticket of gen- ta
cral admifliun to alt public performances in the
Gardens, for the term of ten summer seasons.
The tickets to be mat-- transferable at the option in
ef the fubferibers, by giving timely notice to the
Managers, previous to the commencement of k
season, and having the fame regiltered accordingly. 0 f
Subfcnptionsreceived by Messrs. Bates and Dsr- tr
ley at Bufli Hill, where tickets for the season only, ...
may be had at twelve dollars each. jj
N. B. Admittance to non-fubferibers on each 1
C oncert Night, Half a Dollar.
* t * D*ie notice will be given of the commence- °
ment. May 7$ 5p n 5
Muftcal Injlrument Manufaftory,
No. *167, Arch Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
fid:-board, pier table and square piaro forte X
mak.rfrom London, returns thanks to his friends .
and the public, for their liberal encouragement, 111
and hopes tha; by his afliduity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newelt 10
and mod approved plans, with pedals, patent, ' ar
1 fvvell, and French harp flop, which heflatteis
himlelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced far
judges, to be equat'if not superior to any import- for
cd, and twenty per cent chelper. Any inrtru ati<
mtnt pnrchafed us hitn, it net approved of in wit
twelve months, be will exchange.
N. E. AM kinds of Musical tnfiruments made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatefl accuracy,
ddpatch, and on the mill rcafimable, terms, foi
ready ttoaey ohly.
Second kand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May K. tufcfim I
New Hat and Hosiery Sto^e.
Ju/l Imported,
In the Jiffs Wdllam Pan and London, and
jt<nv open in* by
!<[ WILLIAM M'DOUGALI,, *
J\ new Hat audTioliery Store. No. 114,
to O. Market street
Hi, An elegant affortacnt of Clk, cotton and thread
3 f t Stockings
P Silk, cotton and thread Gloyes
Pantaloons, &c. ice.
I ikewife, ahandfome aflbrtment of men's, wo,
irj men s, and children's fafoionable Hats, (uitufelc f<*
&p the Stafon.
CO A conCHerablt quantity of low and middle priced
ATS aborted in cases, intended for country fterca.
. M *ra- , taw
I o be fold cheap,
'o c l~° rtofe an adventure,
so 7 Bales B^fias
jo 3 ditto Codas
Apply at the Stofe of
;o Mcrdecai Letuis.
:°| May 16 eoa w - *
; TO BE RENTED,
And may he cKtetet! upon at aiiv time*
i- I 'HA i foreibleand well improved water works
J- on Brandywine,, three miles from the town
le of Wilmington, in tilt (late of Delaware;
ie CONSISTING Of
■- A large, convenient Slitting Mill,
In complete order, having several pair of rolJs
- and cutters of every [lie.
, A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
ij Having three pair burr stones, boultmg works,
corn kiln atid every other neceflary apparatus,
- A Saw Mill,
In the belt order, and a pair of timber wheels.
a A Smith's Shop and Tools.
To accommodate thefp works there is a large
I, commodious stone dwelling house, kitchen and
waifc house and a number of dwelling house*
j for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two hrge
> » ne^ a^cs ». tNVo stone coal hcufes, and a coop-.
, er s (nop, with meadow and pasture grounds.
. If the tenant chufes he may have the oppor
tnmty to purchase an excellent teuaof jive hor
| 'es, wapgo*, coal carriages and bed, with a
. flock of coal in the coal house. fuffieie#t to ina
nufa&ure three hundred tons of iron.—-Addlv to
RUMFORD y ABIJAH DAWES,
. No. 7, South Water-street.
Laws of the U. S.
SIVIFT's EDITION.
JnJt Publijhed,
Price 6 dollars, 3 vol. iamo.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and
r. Kice, M. Carey, R. Campbell and Co.
Laws of the United States,
From the commencement of the Federal Govern.
ment to the end oj the lajl Sejion of Cuu
&ef'\ •which terminated Mirth 3, 1797.
1 tilS edition, published under an order of
X Congress of the United States, has many
peculiar advantages. In the former one, each
■ volume had a separate index, whieh rendered
the reference in all cases, difficult and trouble
| some, and in many almofl impossible. The in-
moreover, very injudiciously com
piled On the contrary, in the present edition,
there is one copious, luminous index, com
piled by Zephaniah Swift, Esq. referring to
all the volumes, and comprifjng in itfelf a com
plete digest of all the laws of the United States.
Valuable Lands, Mills,
&c. in Georgia.
On Saturday, the first day of Jidy
next, at 7 o,clock in the evening, ai the r 0 f»
see-house in Philadelphia, will be fold by
auflion, for a liberal credit, the following
estates "
In the State of Georcia.
No I.
A CERTAIN TRACT OF LAND, com
-L i- tuning 100,697 1-a acres, fitnate in the
county of Montgomery, formerly the county of
Washington, on the east fide of Ohoory river,
and the waters of the Altanjaha, and about one
mile above the mouth of Pendleton's creek, and
in the neighbourhood of Mill creek. The im
provements on this tra<s» of land, confuting of
the molt complete Grift and Saw Mills in the
southern country, having cost at least 10,000
dollars within these two years. The timber is
of the fineft quality, and the quantity is not to
be exhaufled.
2.
A tract of very valuable land ia Franklin
county, lying on the waters of Oconee, con
taining about 75,000 acrs.
3.
. A ,ri & adjoining or near to No. 2, contain
ing about 25,000 acres.
4.
Two millions and fiveihundred thousand aere*
of land, being an vndivided part of all that
trarfl o4 valuable country, including islands, si
tuated on the Mobile Bay, Albahama, Tom
1! and Mifiifippi divers, which was grant
ed by the State of Georgia to James Gunn, and
others, by the name of " The Georgia Compa
ny", in fee.
Thirty (bares in tlfe Tennessee Company,
each (hare being about 10,000 acres, or one four
hundredth and twentieth part of the said Tcn
nefiec Company's purchase, being so much of
tlie trai2 of coontry, granted try the State of
Georgia to MaUhias Maher and Zichariah Cox.
in fee.
Ej" This piece of property may, in the op
tion of the purchaser, or his afligns, be offered
to ZacharUh Cox, for the sum of 175,000 dol
lars, in two years from the lift March 1-96,
who is obliged by his fpeciai bond, to take the
lime, if offered to him, at that time, and pay
for the fame, within fix months after the expir
ation of the said two year*. This bond U fold
with tne land. - ' •
By crder of
Henry Pratt,
T. lr. Francis, j
Job,n Milter,jun. I „ °f
John Athley, [ J am " Creenleaf.
Jacob Baler, J
EavAP.t) Fqx, Auctioneer.. •>
Ml y l 5 mw/lS
[Volume XI.P O E ,T R V.
BRITISH DIAMOXDS.
Through the mines cf fndoftan abound
With brilliants efteem'd by the fair,
Yet in Alhion'» rich bosom are found
G'jins brighter than ever grew there.
Those treafurcs divine to explore,
And their beauties fjper'ative prove,
I view ihe lair nymph I
for her eyes are.the briiUant»' of love,
firitifh Diamonds all others surpass
\nd more exquisite iU.Ore impart;
With the Foreign we (cribble on gl.rfs,
hile the Native infe-ibr f>n tlie heart.
WASHINGTON LOTTERr. No. 11.
List cf Prizes and Blan'ks.
pay's Drawing-—May 22,
No. Dels. A'o. Dots'. No. Dols. No. Dots.
978 xo 10796"" 24692 Jo 4.11*5 10
iftcf 11077 15941 10 399 10
917 3*B 417 54t
V >»3J7 **6Bs 959
6ij. 805 49 513 41094
3119 1 .H&s 30078 116
4J 7* 664 10 114 10 849
616 ro 146'? >3i 44218
675 10 I*3*o »8o
5454 10 575 10 34456 10 750 19
t)j(> 10 666 521 10 813
6510 16488 667 45221
557 19641 35 j 4B 591
80 J 651 702 10 813
70y3 10 839 10 976 10 854 10
686 10 871 10 36385 937 'O
817 912 10 37433 2 S 46802 10
883 959 828 10 921
8C73 20199 38282 10 47336 10
734 21377 469' 373
967 439 39 1 77 405 is
9588 734 • 40312 10 48287
779 21383 791 10 49178 10
looji 23150 876 631
717 10 24403 41069 728 10
Valuable Books.
Anew importation, from London, ufl reccivec?
and now opening and felling by J. ORMROD, No.
41, Chefnut-ftreet.
iVTarch 29. eo^p
F° r Sale or Charter,
V? 7he Schooner
Fair American,
Virginia built—burthen about 709 barrels flour—
two years old—and can be sent to sea immediately.
7 bomas Jq/hua Fijhcr,
No. 5, Dock ftrtct.
May 19. diw
Southwark Printing-Office,
No. 294, South Sccond-Jlrett.
IF encouraged, Timothy Mcuntford, will pub
lish from this office, a newspaper, entitled, The
' SsMifj-ivcri-Cczdta, a:id Philadelphia Regijter; the u-
X .t y ol whi:h, no one can doubt of who considers
tie uiftunce between this and other offices.
He will ftnd papers on the morning of every
Thurfday'and Saturday, to such places as his sub
scribers snail direct.
The price of this Gazette will be Four Dollars,
prr ye-r, payable as follows: One dollar when
called' for—one dollar at the expiration of fix
months—and onfe dollar at the aid of every fubfe
qu«it t«rm of thr<fe months.
Literary elfays vriil be gladly received and in
ieried gratis—Advef tifements at the usual rates.
Apply to William Robinson,jun. Esquire,
at his house ia front of the office, who will receive
iubferiptien*.
Subfcciptions will alfobe received by the follow
ing centlemen, viz. Mess. Young, Mills iff Son,
I'bomas Dobfon, 'John OrmroJ, IVitHam IV IVW
tttardy and Samuel Richardet, Merchants* Coffee
houfc. (
May 29. 3peo.
Dutch Gunpowder.
A quantity of the bed Dutch Gunpowder for
sale by Samuel Brcek, jun. Ne. 89, south Third-
Prcct.
Kay 17. co6t
JIZC kiei Hall
HAS removed his Compting Room to Jones's
Wharf*, where lie ha* -for sale
24 hogsheads Cod Fish.
A Jlon to let,
.Xr Water-street, between Market and Arch-streets.
May 20 6p
For Sale,
JSySzmucl Ereck, jun,at s Compiing-houfe,N»,
89 South 1 hird-ftreet,
A quantity of the beji
Bolon mess Beef in whole aid half barrels.
fit for (hip's use
Do. Pork do.
A quantity of Sherry Wine
A few Pipes Oil Proot Brandy, just landed
from Bordeaux
Chocolate in Boxe>
Rice, Cotton, Castile Soao, and
Four or five Bales large Orauge Peels, &c.
May 27. «o6t
For I'ale, or to be let,
A new three Jlory brick house.
AT the Merchants' CofFee-houfe, ou Friday
next, the ad of June, at 8 o'clock ia the
evening, will be lold by public vendue, a genteel
"three ttcry house. It io pieafantly situated on the
south fide of Arch-street, the fouith house above
fourth-fireet. It may be viewed any time before
liie sale. Terms are one fourth in approved notes
at 60 days, and the remainder in seven years on
fecurky and interest annually. If not fold it will
be put up to be let on a Icafc of seven years. Im
mediate poffeflion may be given. Further parti
culars will be made known at the time of sale, by
Richard Footman Co.
yJuSion'ert.
Mav 19. dst
Doctor Perkins
INFORMS the citizens of Philadelphia, that ke
has taken lodgings for a few days at the sign of
the Indian Queen, south Fourth-ftrcct. He will
be happy t» wait on those who wifli to faiisfy
thcmlclves of the efficacy of bis
Patent Metallic Points ;
And win operate gratis for the relief of the prjor
at his lodpings, where he lia> for sale the inltru
tncntt, with the necessary milrusions for ufijig
th»m.
May 29. dtf
For Sale,
TWO LOTS OF GROUND 4n Kcnfinp
ton, on the ibuth fide of Hanovcr-flrcci,
containing thirty-fix feet in breadth and ore
kondred and frxty-feven and a half feet in
depth to a twenty feet alley For further in
formation enquire at No. 37, Arch-street.
March 18. cadtf
litre***— >r "-w <mWO
CONGRESS'. ; 1
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
Wednefibry, Afiy 24.
( !flr. Swan wick's S/i.'«4 concluded.)
Ai to the fpoliatiwns, they rioubtleft ire alf:>
causes of jult tompkriut' from America ; l> .t
while they are equally continued to thisdsy, by
England, Spain, Holland and France,"we ought
to go to war with all these powers ; if we mean
lo attack any on tfcis score—tor lurety, the
groans of Our teamen, fa emphatically heard by
a gentleman up before me, from Maflachuletts,
are heard as dillinilly from Cape Nichola Mole,
as fivmi Cipe Francois, and ought to rouze e
qual indignation, uajei's we have ears to hear for
injuries from one quarter only. He thought,
; :udeed, it would evince our spirit to go to <war
jjitb them nl! and by that means retaliate up
on each the mjsries we have recci»ed from each.
But nothing was laid aoout the spoliations of
die Britiftt. The UntiQi take property bound
to France in p'iri'uance of the treaty ; and the
French taking advantage of the stipulation made
in the liritdh treaty, that " free (hips do not
make free goods," take our property lkjund to
Englifii ports. So that this is the ground upon
which all our difficulties reft. Upon the ad
mission to take, lies the evil; for, a French pri
vateer meeting an American merchantman, fays
to him, " Yon have Englilh goods on board."
He answers " no," but the veflel is taken into
a French port, to undergo a tiial, and in the
mean time the engagements of the merchant
becomes due, which being unable to meet from
this failure in the arrival of his veflels, hs is ru
ined. l'he fadV is, that while the war lasts, so
will the fpoliationt in spite of every thing we
can do to the contrary ; not because the nations
at war are just, but because they are powerful
and use that power only as suits their own inte
rest without reference to our grievances or com
plaints. For this there is no remedy but an
embargo—fini e nothing fliort of this can pre
vent the captures coisplained of, and this
remedy has bee# thought worse than the disease,
since it puts a flop to all commerce, and must
tend to lower the prices of all our produce ;
we must therefore, he prefumcd, leave trade to
regulate itfclf in this refpefl. Although it may
be incidentally ohfeived, that our European
and China, and East India trade have been hith
erto preftrved pretty free from violation. We
hive iuffei ed inoft in the WcA Indies —but here
it is to be remarked, the French republic have
no decided power, their islands arc governed by
a provisional agency, who are obliged to keep
the blacks and mulattoes in good humor in or
der to preserve those poflefiions, and who are
so little under the controul of France, that they
have frequently (hipped back to them the gene
rals and commifiioners, they have sent out to
them. In the Weft Indies, in faft, all is plun
der, the age of the fluccaniers is revived, and
even exceeded, and those who go thither mufl
trust for fafety only to their heels ; for as to
arming them, I doubt much whether we could
prevent this being made a pretext of for fitting
out more privateers and from among ourselves,
who perhaps, according to their different inter
ests, w6u!H, under pretext of defending com
merce, only be committing spoliations on each
other at sea—War might increase the quantity
of depredations, but I doubt, if by this men
fare, we could lately repress or controul them—
foor.er or later it must lead u? to the calamity
we all wife so ardently to avoid, the pcfitive e
vils-afid misfortunes ®f war.
But it is stated Franca wanted to divide the
people from the government, and to it
unduly ; and this has been compared to divid
ing us from ourselves ; as if Ihe wanted to tear
the arms from the (houlders, the legs from the
thighs, or the head trom the trunk ; this is sure
ly too absurd for any government to have inten
ded, and could never be expected to l'ucceed,
unless indeed measures were to be taken by the
government, oppressive and injurious to the peo
ple j in which cafe we have often seen this ef
fect produced in other countries, not so much
however from foreign faflion or influence, as
iromdomeftic oppression or difcontect. A ge
neral clamor was indeed raised against France,
in Europe, as if she were the enemy of all fociai
order and government j but the fa<ft is, their go
vernments would never have been affefled, but
in proportion as they were intrinCcallj bad and
oppressive. In this country, the people love
the governmemt becaufe'they arc happy—keep
them so, keep them as free as possible from tax
es, embark them in no unnecessary wars or
troubles, and you need never fejr the effects of
any foreign influence on them. Alarms of this
kind may do well for huHgry pamphleteers and
greedy scribblers, whole writings, it is to be la
mented, art so greedily purchifed and read >-
mong us ; but never ought to be admitted with
in the limits of these walls; all thenoileof Bri
tilli and French parties in this country being
merely terms of abuse bandied about,and at belt
but empty nonsense.
But it isfaid, our independence is menaced
and we must make a Cecsnd edition ef it. By
whom is it invaded ? Does France want to gov
ern us ? She would have but poor encourage
ment in this, from the fate of her predecessor.
Can Englahd desire it ? She makes more by us
in the silent, but preclusive operations of trade.
Let us not then deceive ourselves by this empty
declamation. If France finds fault, it is not
at our laws or coaftitutions, as they relate to us
at home ; surely if by any cffccls of them a
bioid, they operate to her disadvantage, lhe has
a right to complain, and we ought to euquire
into the complaint, and if well founded, to re
dress it as far u is in omt power.
But a gentleman from Massachusetts appre
hends the Atlantic will not be able to restrain
the tide of French vi&ciies they will land'and
revolutionize the southern states, and free the
negroes j I eonfefs, said Mr. S. I have no appre
hensions of this kind—but if we really have
such ideas, so much the more careful ought we
to be, to avoid a war, which has been so def
lating t» other nations, and efpeeially now
when they are getting fa tired of it, ahd anx
ious to put an end to it, fer it is plain, their ex
hausted resources must soon compel to do this,
and it would be an unlucky moment for us to
get into the scrape, as others were getting out
of it.
It h:.i been often observed, that the people
and the governmenfare one ; but if the reprc
fenutivei were compelled to divide, even tocar
ry an answer, by a majority ofoneort wo votes,
will this carry an ide* of unanimity ? Had we
not better modify the answer is such a way »
may produce a more genera! acquiescence in it ?
This will give more true dignity to our proceed
ings, and give a proof that we are govcrncd-by
rcafjn more than by passion, by the love of our
country. rather than by any other eonfideratlon.
Mr. Livingfton having liftencd to the fe
vtrral gentlemen who had preceded him, with
the molt refpeftful attention, and heard
their ardent exprefiions of patriotism, and
the lively sense which they eutertained of the
true dignity of our government, he (hould
not attempt to follow them into a field which
they had exhaufled, but would leave it to
the confider?.t:on of the committee and his
country to determine upon his sentiments
cadtf
and the measures which he should fuggcfl,
-—whether he was or not, equjllp difponid
with others 40 promote the peace and honor,
the happiness and the security of»hi3 coun
try and government ; he would leave it for
his measures to speak for him, he would not
fce led away by arty idle Or extranious vanity
from objefts so solemn and important, he
should speak. freely as became an American
at a crilis so very prelliiig. First, then, lie
(hould notice the address that was before
the committee and the amendment proposed
to be made to it. He w » fori y-to observe
the manner in which they had been dilcufTed;
it had been conjidered on one fide that to a
dopt any language in reply to the address
but that which has been laid before the com
mittee in the report, would amouna to a
surrender of all our rights, privileges and
independence as a nation, to France ; on the
other it had been held that the differences
between us and France are distorted, and
that we should at least not (hut up evsry av
enue to negociation, by an obflinate and
blind affcrtion of our own infallibility : if
he believed with those of the former opini
on that we should in any shape incur the
fligma of degrading ourselves, or if he fuf
peclcd even that we should facrifice one
right of our country or government by an
adoption of the amendment proposed, or
he thought we should not endanger our na
tional charafter and fafety by the adoption
of the report, he should most certainly re
jeft the amendment and adopt the report ;
or if he believed with the gentleman from
Maffachpfetts (Mr. Otis) that the demands
of France now were any-wise analogous to
those of Great-Britain on a former occasion,
sooner than consent to a dereliction of our
independence and national character, he
would not flop short of the language of that
report ; but as he could not force his judg
ment to so outrageous a mifconftruftion, as
he saw on the contrary numerous reasons to
entertain a very different opinion, he would
not consent to incur the perils and the errors
in which the report may involve us ; he
could not consent to so hasty, so precipitate
and inconsiderate a step:
The question properly before the house at
this time, is, whether we shall continue to
express so perfeft a reliance on all the afts of
our own government, whether we shall fay
obstinately to France that there is no possi
ble cafe in which our judgment could have
been milled or miflaken in our conduft to
wards her, and by determining to adhere to
our former conduft, preclude every possibi
lity of an amicable adjuflment ; or leave a
reasonable opportunity open for an effectual
discussion and adjustment of differences,
wherever they may fubfifl.
The scope of the speech of the President
to both houses, it must be confeffed, goes
to bind us to the former conduft, and it is
too evident that the report, in ftrift coincid
ence with the sentiments of several, but not
all its fupforters, bears that fame dangerous
tendency ; from which line of conduft are
we to expeft the most beneficent ifTue, to
treat with a complaining power by a determi
nation to {hew that its complaints are ground
less, or by examining the complaints and
the evidence in amicable negociation and de
ciding afterwards; let us examine all the com
plaints of France and then determine wheth
er they are all so frivolous as to excite irrita
, tion at the mere mention of them ; unless we
are thoroughly fatisfied that they are so, we
cannot vote the answer as it is reported ;
should we discover in such an examination
that some of our measures have been founded
at least in mistake, would it then be proper
to adopt the language of the address ; but
should we persist under such a possibility of
mistake, what do we risk, an evil much
more fatal than the worst that could follow
the most sober resolution we ean now adopt;
we risk the alternative of abandoning it af
ter a war in which we may be fuiTerers, and
after we may' have retarded the increasing
1 prosperity of oUr country, half an age : we
have an example before us in a nation that
was eager- to snatch at a remote pretext for
an assumed interference in her government,
we have seen that nation among the most
powerful and haughty in Europe, the most
vain of her dignity (real or unreal) the most
apt to interfere in the government of others,
we have seen her enter into a war, and we
have seen her driven to the lowest state of
humiliation, we have seen her obliged to
pursue the most abjeft means of solicitation
to obtain a peace from that very nation
whom (he had irritated to a war—and we
saw her more humiliated flill by the rejeftion
of those propositions which she had made to
obtain peace. Have we a better profpeft
than that nation ? Are our means equal to
hers ? are we indeed ready to embark in a
war, with France too, and present such a
lesson to the world as America at war with
France, after France has defeated the efforts
of all the world ! He again aflced, have we
the means ? Let gentlemen who are willing
to plunge us into that dilemma make the
reply : but let not gentlemen indulge in so
hateful a pifture ; but although we have no
he was flill against surrendering the
honor of our country. Fortunately no such
facrifice is demanded, no such measure is
necessary ; and were we ten times more des
titute even than we are, he should never
submit to our national degradation, were
there a power so insolent as to expeft it.
But let us examine whether we have not
been fubjeft to the common lot of human
fallibility in our measures ; let us to whom
peace is so desirable, from experience, from
principle, and from our natural love of hap
piness, and to whom the rifles of war would
be attended with such incalculable disasters,
enquire before we rush wantonly upon them,
whether it is raally clear that we have been
uniformly right—whether we have not been
sometimes wrong ? Suppose it (hould be
found that France has had some cause of
complaint, that some of her claims are foun
ded in reason, or even suppose that she only
earncftly thought so, and that she would
prove her sincerity ; are we to (hut our c-yes
and ears against an examination of these
complaints, are we -to leave no room for a.
fair and candid dlfcuflioß, such as may con
vince whichever may be the milta'>efl party ?
It wis he knew a very ungrjKSbw, and
often an unpopular tsfk, to difpl.iy tne er
rors of our own government : there was a
national vanity, a vain and unmeaning pride
which fought to be be bolstered up by frip
pery of word-i, and afts of diffimuiation, he
knew that this empty and pernicious vanity
often alfutlled the poll and place of the true
dignity of a"country, and blinked contume
ly on him that was rtifpoliwt to prefer the
plain, frank, open path of integrity .and
truth. He would chufe between these op
poiite paflions of a nation, and preferring
his duty to the appreheniion of unmerited
reproach, he would neither repress the fen
tirren's of his mind, nor fofter those which
he coneeived to be pregnant with ruin : he
would glory more in promoting the juftipe
of his country, than in condafting her to
the moll brilliant triumphs in an unjust cause.
He would therefore calmly examine whether*
France had just cause of complaint ; and
whether (he had or not a just he would
aflert that Frante might without exciting
indignatioir, think herfelf injured ; that (he
might, was a fufficient reason with him for
preferring the amendment, as it left an o
pening for rather amicable discussion and ac
commodation, than the report, which had
an opposite character.
In enumerating the complaints, it was
very true, that France had preferred many
which were not in themselves reasonable or
well founded ; but there were circumstances
in which France was liable to mistake as
well as ourselves ; the objefts presented
themselves in a delusive or adverse form, and
it was a fubjeft rather of regret, which we
should use as a warning to our own judgments
than a crime in her, if (he afted in the fame
way that (he (hould do when under the con
viftion and certainty of her rectitude ; when
(he was unconscious of her error.
The firft object of her complaint was the
interference of our courts in prize causes.
Was there no color of complaint on this
fubjeft ? He did not mean to enter into any
particulars of the cases that came before, or
the decisions in our courts, he only alluded
to the 17 th article of our treaty with France,
upon which she grounded this fubjeft of
complaint, " that it (hall be lawful for the
ships of war of either party, and privateers,
freely to carry whithersoever they please,
the (hips and goods taken from their ene
mies, without being obliged to pay any du
ty to the officers of the admiralty, or any
other judges; nor (hall prizes be arrested or
seized, when they come and enter the port
of each party ; nor (hall the searchers or o
ther officers of those places, search the fame
or make examination concerning the lawful
nefs of such prizes ; but they may hoist fail,
at any time, and depart, and carry their
prizes tn the places expressed in their com
missions, which the commanders of such
ships (hall be obliged to (hew ; on the con
trary, no (helter or refuge (hall be given in
their ports to such as (hall have made prizes
of the fubjefts, people, or property of ei
ther of the parties ; but if such shall come
in, being forced by stress of weather, or
the dangers of the sea, all proper means
(hall be vigorously used, that they go "out
and return from thence as soon as possible."
Every gentleman must fee, that the latitude
of this article was indeed very wide, so wide
that not even a searcher was permitted to go
on board, nor an officer of our admiralty enti
tled to a fee or duty nor any other of our jud
ges ; ought we to be surprized, that a nation
imperfeftly acquainted with the detail of
our municipal regulations and official duties,
(honld differ with us in the conflruftion of
this article, after our detention of their pri
zes, in the discussions that have taken place
already on this article ; the difference of in
terpolation is not at all surprising ; they
have said to,your courts, we allow their due
jorifdiftion, tout as treaties are fuprcme laws,
osr prizes not have.been fuffered to
enter your courts ; according to this article,
you fubjeft us to tedious delays, nor involve
us in litigious fuitl, but your Executive
(hould have decided in a summary way, and
not kept our armed (hips idle and expenGve
to us; he would not fay that in this con
tlrudion France was right, or that our courts
were wrong, far from it ; all .he wifiied the
Committee to consider, was whether France
might not without great violation of rea
soning toneeive herfelf tight, and accor
dingly ilaim of us such an explanation an
might place us clear of any suspicion of
designed wrong, tewardi her in violation of
that treaty.
The second complaint was our admiflion of
veffils hostile to France, and that made pri
zes, into our ports, contrary to the last part
of the fame article ; and France had also
conilrued this one way a,nd our Executive
another—but was a mistake a cause of hosti
lity ? (hould the mistake be oursj would
France be juftifiable in hostility marely on
account of the mistake ; and (hould we be
any more juftifiable to rifle hostility, rather
than enter upon discussion.
Another cause of complaint was the con
veifion of our neutrality into an injurious
hostility, by out indifferent fufferance of the
impressment of our fesraen by Great Britain,
by which her enemy became-poffirfled of our
force and employed them against her, while
we were on terms of the molt intimate and
friendly alliance, and they were embarked in
a cause common with our own ; they com
plain of this indifference very ftrorgly, and
it must be acknowledged that no open inter
ference took place 011 cur part upon that fe
riou9 ftiljtft to ourfelves,and important to us
as a nruuai nstios, until the latter end of
1796, except a few lines (rom our minister,
Thomas Pinckney, in a letter to lord Greti
viJle in the summer of that year ; from so
long a filenec on fuaii a fubjeft, was it fur
rifing that Fiance (hould entertain doubts
of our disposition to prcfetveour neutrality,
was it surprising that die fliould consider
Tome hidden but unaccountable change hav
ing taken place in the attachment of the U.
States ; was it surprising, or a matter cillipg
fcrhofii'itv oe cu* p»rr, tba: f„e (hculdcon
fijet -cKis c.ir.JuH Coquetted tvith tin- hitt.
l'ponJin£ airangemsnts made with. Great.
Britain, in a time of war, as pernicious to
her.
Under the m3irt object of the British trea
ty, which is o::e of the complaints of France,
there are f-veral Jubordinate parts ; the fiift
jj that of the abandonment of that principle
~f tl>e law of nations which secures the free
d. m t,f trade by efiablidiing the neutrality
tif goods carrjed io free (hips j he would not
Jne.l lar'i(£/ on the immei.fc advantages
whiuh neutral nations, but above all others
our wwn, would derive from the complete
and universal recogniiioh of that jull princi
ple ; but he would recommend it to the con
fident ion of every candid and unfcuaflld msn,
whether France had not fume groundto con
sider out ptoCefdiflgs-in rhrtt as alarm
tag to hctfrjf;—when she bad negotiated
upon that valuable principle with bs, when
we had faleranly recognised it, and had car
ried the fame principle repeatedly into i>e
gociation with other powers; could France
Testis factifice the fapreme advantages which
our commerce would derive from its mainte
nance, and that too in the moment of her
'apparent adversity, could (lie fee this and still
be criminal for fufpecling a cefTation of that
affe&ion in our government towards her
which she was so indisputably entitled to ex
pedt ; so contrary to tha interells and the
ties of treaties, an<J. still be deemed l.ollile
when (he demands justice, equ;.l juftiee at our
hands. But he fhotild be told that the prin
ciple was not an univcrlal out, that its recog
nition in the treaty of 1778, did not bi«:d
the United States rtlinquifhing it in any
treaty with another nation ; he would by and
by examine the principle ; now he would ■fuf
fer it to be argued the contiaiy principle)—
that the right us seizure of enerry's properly
on neutral (nips, was the universal and re
ceived law ; was it the'aftuaily received law ?
Then if it was, how came it to be made a
part of that formal negotiation, jnd to con
llitute an article of the Briiiih treaty ,'Wliy
introduce it so unguardedly there if it wss al
ready the universal and indisputable law ? But
we had even exceeded that law, for we hai
admitted the right to carry our (hips into
their por!3 merely on suspicion, a concession
which was not even presumed to be authori
zed by any law or ufageof civilized nations ;
aconceffion wlich neither went to profit our
felvea, nor to ameliorate our condition ss *
neutral nation—if the principles were even
fixed htfore, was it an evidence of out ami
ty, of our tenacious regaid or our own dig
nity, or of a seriously ncntral difpobiien to
conclude these novel moderations, which
went to fetter our commerce with the most
perplexing (hackles.
But let us enquire whether it is ferioully the
law of nations ? and in making this enquiry it
is not from patched-ideas, halt quotations, or
l'craps of learned opinions parcelled out and bot
ched or fubterfuge, that we must dcciije , if
upon this examination we (hovid find realiil e
ven to fufpefl our error, and that we have
conceded any llifng to Great Britain rojitrary
to that law, it will b? surely a fubflantiii feafou
forjour ruforting to temperate and Jiberadnego
tiation—bur on this he wo?W not now-dwell ,
the law of nations is fdnndei 0."? certain usages
of nations at various periods, and upen the fti- '
pulations of treaties of nations with eacs ether j
these laws were either partial or geneifl, and
the latter have hern the fubjeft of temmsn
claim among ualions ; now in ll! that
has been written oirthofe laws he knew of none,
which had received ihe common ajfoutofall
nations, or of nearly all, authorizing the fei
zuie cf enemy's property on free (hips; the
principle had been repeatedly af
though ialiad been often tvaiJed, it had never
been difpvoved, that a (hip of a neutral nation
fliould be asfacred as its territory; wherever
the flag of a r.eutral nation waves that fnould
be sacred, and goods seized on board a feutral
(hip is as much a violation of the universal law
as the seizure on the neutral land cculd be ;
why is it that belligerent nations are precluded
from the (eizurc of the goods of an enemy in a
neutral port, betaufe it would be a violation of
the neutral right! ; do thei'e rights depart from
the citizens'ol free dated upon their departure
from their o-wn ports ? It is too abfurdto'ex
pe&any oiherbut the plain reply. B:;'. if we
cannot find the decision in the tomes of the civ.l
-ian, Ictus lfcok elsewhere ; let us lo k into the
treaties : and here we may obtain si me fatisfac
tory ted upon which w? may reft the quel*ion;
prior to the war of our revolution, the treaties
of European nations were a ferics of cpntradic
tory aflertions and denials of known principles ;
the fame principles were afFerted in one treaty
of the fame nation, which were faci oieed to
partial inter:fts in another ; the spirit of mo
nopoly of trade corrupted-the current of univer
sal law ; and local situation, a temporary ftra
tsgem, or an ambitious project sealed what the
other had negotiated ; but i<» the midftof war,
Europe saw irife a eomtvnation of neutral pow
ers who were resolved to restore the laws of na
tions to their primitive principles from the in
tolerable atfkife into which they had fallen ; and
they declared that principle which no nation
ought to deny ; Ruflia finding that the depre
dations which the belligerent powers were torn
raitting on her commerce, furpafled all bounds
of juftite, notifitd to the other r.eutral powers
in herfirft declaration her purpofc to ascertain
and fix the principles which neutral nations
ought to cbferve toward those at war and reci
procally, and expreflcj herfelf thus—" pbe
" does this with the greater confidence, as (he
" finds those principles founded on the ii i»ii
" tivelawof nations, which everyone may hive
" recourse to, and which the bell gtrcin powpa.
" cannot invalidate wUhout violating the laws
" of neutrality, and disavowing maxims which
" they themlelves have expressly adopted ir»
" diflerent treaties and public enga 'emtnis:"hc
did not quote this ih itlelf conclrfive autnort
jty, hlthough thtfaiSs are' irrefragable, but be
casfe every power in great and
weak and powerful—excepting onlyoNR~»-recog*
nized & acknowledged it; but he (hould lie tolA
this is a private compail, and that the agreeing
nations did not declaie this ought te be ihe u*
ryveriil law of.jiations ; —Let those gentlemen,
■aufwer me, is the principle inconsistent with i;ea
fori and justice, is it cnnatural, is it not thel.nr
ot nations,'is it not binding upon evtry natioii
who fubfcrilred to or adopted it; —until gentle
men deny this, I (hall fairly conclude that it is
the tiue and genuine law of nations ; but it will
b< Ciid, there is one power which did not agree
to that convention, ami therefore the agreement
of all the reft is invalidated—will this indeed
be infixed upon, is it because one haughty, c»
verhtarisg and eppiefiive nation wifting to mo
nopolize the trade and the power of the whole
world,denie« that law whi<"h slcoeeculdrcttrain
I *r encr mous avarice ard,'yrancy, thai tUsone[iiactd in the scale aH the other povr- "
trs of the world, peaceful and ballijjerem, and •<
witb justice and law too on their fid?, (hill de- >1
termine that the very law itfelf mud become tl
invalid !
But it i« ("aid, thk declaration of the armed,
neutrality is only a teriporary, and not a per- "
inanent compaft, and xve (hall be told that this ti
Terrion is fupportcd by an article of the treaty d
of neutrality itfelf:—ln arguing this ohjeflion, e)
he felt a degree of unealinefs th it he couljl not j t
Tui>pref«, it had given much difqaict, because ,
it very largely implicated the honour and eha- '
ia>ster of otrr country : —ln a document publifn- a
ed by the exprrfs authority of Government, a
I rofeffedly addrefled to a public minister thert t
about to proceed on his mi(!ion, our Secretary b
cf State, pulilifhed in the face of the United t
States and the whole world a letter which wasto ■
hethe inllrufhanof thatminifter wheninFrance, r
a mutilated half of an article nf this treaty, in
order to juftify the measure of our concession to "
, Great Britain ; he had fren such bungling '
things attempted in courts of law in order to de- t
ctiTe an ignoranfjury, or a more ignorant judge, v
but as an as) of a national agent, of one of the p
principal officers of a government, he believtd
the like was not to he fotfnd in the annals of the ,
inoft vicious policy in any nation 7 in that let
ter the 9th article of the armed neutral conven- F
tion is thus quoted—" The Convention being a
" concluded and agreed on for the tim* the r
*' present war (hall last, (hallferveas abafisto f
" future engagements which cirrumftances may ! r
" render neceifary, or on account of uew na- j
" val wars which Europe may have the misfor
" tnne to be troubled with"—and herethequo- v
tationis broken off (hort in the middle of the . '
article ; wai it to be supposed that our nimilter r
of State could obtain only a mutilated copy us [
this important hillorica! record I —the article t
concludes with this weighty and important de- ; |
tlaration, which our Secretary has entirely o- j
mi\ted —" These llipulations fnali further be :
" considered as permanent, and (hall decide 1 {
" in ALL MATTIRS of Commerce and Ka-viga- \ '
" tion ; and in (hort in every f ase where the 1
" rights of neutral nations are to be determined.' 1 I
But a gentleman has told us this principle <
of the armed neutrality cannot be a true one ? 1
and why v ? truly because the fame Empress J 1
of Ruflia who was at the head of the con- i ;
federation, has, during the present war, ea- j j
tered into a treaty with that power which |
formerly denied the principle, and had herfelf ;
agreed to contravene it ; and further, that 1
Spain had acceded to that contravention ;
that this conduft of that Empress and of
is a melancholy proof of the captici
oufnefs and indability of arbitrary councils
and of rations, he was ready to confefs ;
but he did not fee upon what ground this
partial dereliftion of right principles (hould
f,o to the universal establishment of wrong :
France in the convulsions of her revolution
had alarmed all Europe, and Britain always
jealous of her power, and much more of that
power under the influence of liberty, had
entered into an engagement with Ruflia to
(la.rve France, and Spain accedes to this pur
pose ; but tinder what cireumdances; under
the proclaimed avowal of the measure being
adopted, because the revolution of France
was a new cafe ; a flame had been lighted up,
as they called ir, which threatened to des
troy all Europe ; and to quench this flame
they agree to overturn th« law of nations,
whi»h if obeyed or regarded, would counte
raft the designs of England and the withes
of RuQiaand Spain.
But we are tsld that our government has
receded from this principle on a former oc
cafioß, and had declared it in «ur correspon
dence with _ Genet ; but he would a(k any
gentleman, does a dSte alter a principle ?
Do principles of right and wrong alter with
the seasons of the years ? If we abandoned
it then or at this day, what is that to France ;
(he tells us we have done it, and acknow
ledge it is done ; thus the quedion is then
reduced to this point—Have tut done right ?
This quedion unfortunately does not reft
with our partialities to decide j it not only
reds upou tfee powers of Europe whom it
may implicate or concern, but upon our own
formal recogmtion& acceflion tothe principles
of the armed neutrality, nay with the com
pltmenr3 expressed by oar government to the
Etaprefs of Ruflia for promoting it; upon
our ascepting of this principle too at a peri
od in which we manifefted that eur love of.
justice was in perfeft consonance with that
loveof liberty which then engaged us in our
revolution ; upon <*ir aceef»tanceof it when
it was calculated to operate mod seriously to
,our difudvantage by depriving us of the sup
plies which could be thereby kept from us ;
' it msttars not then what date, or in what
manner we felinquiflied it, ifhaving formally
received it we abandoned it to the disadvan
tage and injury of our allies and of other
previously subsiding treaties ; we have un
qucftionably done this evil, perhaps from no
malign disposition—but it was our duty, hav
ing committed the error, to reftify it | it
had been urged that we had been compelled
to abandon the principle or go to <war with
Britain ; and we had cholen it as the alter
native—what compelled I he w*nld not dis
cuss this unhappy argument —we have in
flifted a wound on our commercial neutrality,
but what is much worse on our national cha
rafter, which he feared we (hould sever re
cover.
Another fiipula,tion is contained in the
British treaty relative to provisions, which
admits the Britiih, contrary to the law of
nations, to seize upon our vessels going to
France ; it is said that this aitide does not
i admit any new principle, and that indead as
ijeing disadvantageous to Ftartce, (he is put
«u'a better footing than before 1 He would
read the article ; the firft paragiaph of the
i3th article after defining the new extension
of what (hall thereafter be deemed contra
band, proceeds in the fccond thus—" and
41 whereas the difficulty of judging of the
" precise cases in which alone provisions and
♦•other articles not generally contraband may
" be regarcvd as such, rendets it expedi
" ent to pr»vide againd the inconveniences
" and rnifundcrftandings which might thence
•' arise : It is further agreed that whenever
" any such articles fa becoming contraband ac
" cording to the cxiding law of nations, fiiall
" for that reason befeized, the fame (hall not
" be, confiscated, but the owners thereof (hall
*' be speedily and completely indemnified ;
" and the captors, or in their default the Go•
" f rnm:nt uadcr whose suihority they aft,
" (lull pay to the mailer, orownerf, of fuc!i
" vtffel, the full valu? of al! arjiulcs, wi"h a
" reasonable mercantile profi' thareon, toge
" ther wiih tlie freight, aud alf>< the demur
" rage incident to the detention." Our
treaty in the subsequent pj»ra;r ra p',j reeapi _
tulates the ordinary provifiuu for the circum- Fl
Itances attending (hips peoceediug through
error or inattention, to blockaded ports, but
in the above ftjpulations a new principle is
foijled into the law of nations, far which we rc
are to receive the full price of aur articles and ~fe
a reqfonable mercantile profit ; and after doing tl
this we are told, that we place our ally in a A
better condition than (he was before—that
the power of her enemy to seize our snips,
which are protested by the law of Rations f 0
from seizure having nothing contraband on ai .
board, when going to the ports of abellige- tl
rent power not blockaded—is an advantage W
to that power so deprived ; we might admit' L
what is not a faft, in the firil it! dunce that a '
provisions are contraband, and we accept c<
coiripenfation for our facrificc of the univer
fa! law ; we admit the inhuman and horrid ft
principle, that one nation has a right to darve p
another at its discretion, and while thus con w
niving at, and profiting by the collusion, as- M
fed to be indignant when remondrance or "j
resentment flow from the injured nation ; this *
is the lad and afHifting picture of enorinto
which we have been blindly fcJuced ! Of all i
the authors that have written on the law of o
nations, there is not one—no, not one, that 0
supports the idea of provifiops befog liable P
. to the dcfci.iption of contraband, in any cafe
; but in approaching a blockaded pott ; the t
j only author indcedthat mentions such a thing a
i even in the way of suggestion, who a
| fays, that possibly there may be a cafe where h
there is a reasonable hope of reducing a nation
by want of provisions, they may be deemed ''
contraband ; but this is delivered as a mete '
fuggellion, and contrary to his usual difFuTo- ;
> ness he leaves it naked and unsupported by
j any one htftorical example or reference ; Lut
| gentlemen fay, we do not alio v provisions to j
be contraband, although Vattcl has used this ! ;
suggestion, we think the doftrine unfounded; !
but he would not dispute about opinions j
while he had rafts, and he would fay, while ' i
you have denied the doftrine you have allow- j )
ed the praftice; you not only do wrong c
thereto France, but we have done it in the 1 f
moll offcnfive form—and irritated as (he ' i
mud be by the intrigues that have already <
torn her for so many years, the foreign ma- I
chinations and the efforts to subjugate her by (
all the arts which perfidy could fuggefl, we t
(hould not be surprised if (he (hould be relu'c- i
tantly led to believe, that we had thus bar- l
teied our supplies to Britain, reckless of her <
ruin and regardless of our treaties ; I fay (he . i
may be reluftantly led to believe this, since i
the error of our blindness or our weakness is i
visible as noon day. ! \
But we are told that this dipulation is ad- i
vantageous to France, as it holds out a temp- 1
lation to mercantile adventurers from the ;
certainty of payment in v either event of a voy- j
age ; for his part he could net discover in the <
conduit of the ncgociation, nor in the treaty j
itfelf, any such intention on our part ; —but (
he could fee in the facrifice an effort, and he i
! would aflc any gentleman haw far fuccefsful
it had proved, to guard against British depre
dations j but he could fee in the argument a
weak effort to support a tvotfe meafute !
But let us fee what is the conftru&ion of our
, own government upon this principle | it mud
[ be telted by other fafts tlian its adoption or
; rejeftion in a treaty; since the execution of
the treaty our Execntive has put a strong
i conltruftion on this principle; but our Ex -
» ecutive had also, in a letter of isllruftion to
t Mr. Thomas Pinckney, expressed his fenti
r ments equally pertinent but confpicuous—
fpeaking of the orders of the Britiih govern
i ment for seizing provisions in neutral (hips,
3 the firtl article of which was in theft; words ;
. " That it (hall be lawful to (top and retain
; " all vessels loaded wholly or in part with
i " corn, flour, or meal, bound to any port in
" France, or any port occupied by the ar
f. " mies of France, and to fend them to fueh
t " port as (hall be mod convenient, in order
■ " that such corn, meal, or flour, may be
i " purchased on behajf of his majefly's gt*-
3 " vernment, and the (hips be released after
. " such purchase, and after due allowance for
; " freight, &c. .
t The Executive thus notices the order,
jr " this aft too tends direftly to draw us from
- " that (late of peace in which we are wishing
r " to remain : It is an essential charafter of
. " neutrality, to furni(h no aids (not (lipu
o " lated by treaty) to one party, which we
" are not equally bound to furnilh to another,
t " If we permit corn to be sent to Great
d " Britain and her friends, we are equally
h " bound to permit it to France. To re
" drain it would be a partiality which would
f. " lead to a war,*vith France ; and between
i- " redrainiog it ourselves and permitting her
" enemies to redrain it unrightfully is no
i- " difference—She would consider this as a
s . " mere pretext, of which (he would not be
'• the dupe, and on what honorable ground
e " could we otherwise explain it ? Thus we
I " thorized aft of Great-Britain, into a war
0 " with which we meddle not, and which we
)t " wish to avoid, if justice to all parties will
f " enable us to avoid it." Now, fir, if go
vernment thought France wonld not be the
dupe of an artifice then, what reason have we
to believe that die will now ? Let gentlemen
n who are eager for the report, reply and (hew
wherein the dillinftion lies. In 1793 our
j Execntive conlide: ed it as a caitfe of war on
1C ly to permit the infraflion of that law of na
j tions, or the partial supply of one or other
y party with provisions; and are we to expeft
j_ France, to whom we were at lead under some
ties of regsrd, not to fay obligation, (hould
tamely condescend not to notice our facrifices
, r thus made ; gentlemen would not be serious
, _ and expeft it.
Ji C 7 be ctKlinued.]
For Sale,
'' st po'm of Good Black Carriage Horfet,
~ Which miy befeen by application at No. 114,
"• Spruw Street, between Second and Third.
May 12, 5-
%\)t <2>astttt. '
> I
PHILADELPHIA, \
' TUESDAY F.VENVNG, M*Y_3o._ r
Ftom the JLog-hook'of the ih;p General Wash- 3
injjton, captain Moore. _ <
On the 28th March failed from the Elbe, in /
company with, the (hip Hampton,. Stafford, of (
and for Baltimore. On the 15th April, the
rock of Lisbon bearing S. E. distant 9 leagues, 1
fell in with a Portugutfe squadron of two fail ©f L
the line and fix frigates. On the l6:h, at 9, '
a. m, the Light-houje on Cadiz bearing E. 3. E. i
distant 3 leagues, fell in with the Britith fleet, y
of 11 fail of the line and 6 frigates —Wasbro't 1
to and boarded by the Emerald frigate, v. ho in- (
formed me that Cadi? wis in a date of block
ade—thru the Admiral's expref; orders were *
that no lb.ip (hould proceed in ; and if the snip '
was found so near the entrance of Cadiz or St. 1
I.near harbour, they would fire into her, cany 1
away the maffs," &c. &c. Captain Moote in
consequence put away for Madera. v
NOTE. , c
The flatement of Mr. Harper's speech in
Markland and Carey's paper of yefti-rday, is
perfeiffly falfe in all its parts. He said not one 1
word to nrge a com.non cause or an alliißce «
with England, nor did he make the most dillant t
insinuation that there were French ptrnfioners in ;
the house or out of it, much less of their being j
paid out of the fpoiiations. t
Mr. Harper was so far from urging an early
declaration of war, that he expressly declared hi >
objedt to be the avoiding of war, which in his <
opinion was belt to be done by negotiation, sup- '
ported by measures of effeflual defence. 1
His mention of Spain, Holland and Belgium j
was merely by way of warning and example to 1
this country ; and when he adverted to Mexico (
and the Floridas, it was to fiiew that France
and her allies had too much to lose by war for '
her to think feirioufly of driving us into one. 1
(P3" Tb'ofi printers who may copy the above ]
mentioned jlatement into their papers, are re- <
quejied to insert this a Jo. They may be ajfured ,
of its accuracy, as it basieen seen and confirm
ed by Mr. Harper himfelf.
The Olive Branch, Etheridge, from Liver- ,
pool, Philip, the Weft Indies,;and
Fair American, Weeks, from New Providence,
are arrived at Baltimore.
The Merchants Advertiser of this morning
undertakes to corredt an eiror in the vote of
| yeftcrday, which it Hates to be 48 in favor
of the amendment and 50 againfl it, inltead
i of 52, as announced by the Chairman. The
I intelligent and acute editor, whose pryitig curi
j ofity and difcernmsnt every observer .mult
have noticed, attributes this to " an error
' oceafioned by some perfors crowding within i
the bar who were counted by miltake." The
impartial reporter would have entitled hiriifelf ,
! to more credit, had he stated why the mistake
occurred on the fide of the nays, as there was
as much probability of perfonscrowding with
in the bar being counted by mistake on the
one fide as on the other. The faft is that
there was an error in the count, there being
only 98 members on the floor, and, if the
Chairman was correct in reporting 52 against
; the amendment, there could be only 46
! not 48) for it. We are authorized to de
clare, 011 the authority of a geptleman of
; aectiracy who counted the nays, and has fines
! from particular inquiry afertained the Hate
1 of the vote, that there were 52 nays and 46
ayes ; the majority therefore, including the .
Chairman, wbo is known to have been op
posed to it, was seven,.and not two, as ig
norantly asserted by the impartial editor of
the Merchants Advertiser.
Whole number of members, if all
were present, - - 106
Absent ... 7
Present - - - 99
Ayes 46
Noes - - 52
Chairman • .1
99-
Cursory Thoughts on the true Policy of the \
United States.
%
MR. rrNNO,
IT may not, perhaps, be improper for the
1 public to turn their attention to the immediate
operation and confequenccs of a fyftcm, em
braced by a set of men who would impose
■ themselves upon the people, under the capti
vating names of Patriots or Republicans.—
men, if we are to judge from their conduit and
conversation, lay it down as an invariable
> principle, that every military and naval me a
1 sure, to put the United States in a situation
I to repel foreign insults and attacks, ought to
f be refilled by the reprefentaiives, and depre
" cated by the people. This truth is so nototi
: ous, that it would be a wade of time towefer
• to those documents vhith contain so many
■ inltances of the faft.
f In every European war, by which the in
terest of the United States, or any of their
rights of sovereignty maybe involved, an ad
1 herenee to this principle neceflarily and una
r voidably leads to one of two results ; firlt,
3 " To a fubmiffton to every aggrejjion or insult
a which may be attempted or infliHid upon them,
c by any of the belligerent powers." Or, fecoud,
" the alfilute neccjjity of the United Slates
e throwing themftlvrt upon the protection of one
- of thefepowers, in order to prcfcrve their rights
r or interefk from beingfwallowed up or drjlroyed
e by the other." This pofii ion being supported
'' by the experience of all ages, it would be
matter of surprise to fee it prattifd upon in the
c United States, did not the fame experience
e inform us, that there has been always fount.',
n in every country, men who, either from mo
" tives of ambition, or some special cause rela
r tive to themselves, have opposed or defeated
'* th»fe measures which alone could have saved
• their country from ruin or dependance.
'' Let us speak plain ia treating on this sub-
jeft. Is it intended, for example, should
ie England commit depredations on our trade,
d contrary to the laws of nations and treaty, tu
• s submit to the injuries without an attempt at
" defence, or to implore France to take onr
trade under her protection t Would not this be
to make France the protestor of the United
States and the arbiter of their fate ? On the
other hand, (hould fpoiiations be committed
on our trade by France, contrary to expref
4 ' Imputations and to the law of nations, can the
United States submit to receive the proteClion
jof Finland, without fjibmictli:CT to fimilir
drpendance and humiliation ? What is the
courf.-that qught to be purfurd in fuJi a
state of things': What the position which the
United States ought to assume to avoid so
mortifying, and eventually ruinous a depend
ance ? Is it to be effefted by envoys extraor- '
dinary, by conccjfions, by relinquinfbmcnts, by j
humiliations; or is it to be by .
drawing upon the resources of the country, and l
converting them into a maritime vnd landforce i
competent to yield protection, and fufficirnt t
toinfpire a re'ußance in either ofm'-e contend i
ing power) to wound pur rights, left we
should be thrown into the scale of their enemy ? ,
Is the latter the policy the United States
ought to puifue ? Yes, it is the only policy
which can procute to them that coif dera
tion to which they ere entitled, and to ir.y fel
low-citizens that freedom which I tr:.jl they 1
would sooner die than relinquish.
Should the councils of those men prevail, ,
who are for keeping the United States with- ,
out a naval and military defence, what have i
we to fear during the prejrnt war, and what <
to dread upon its termination ? It ii vain to
exp?& from any million to Fiance that our 1
trade to the Fionch Weft-India islands will
be placed in a better fitnation than it is. at
present, or that while it is left unprotected in
that quarter by our own ships, it will not con
tinue to be plundered. Humiliation and ,
conceflkw may indeed prevent its fullering
equal injuries ir. the European and other seas;
but nothing short of an armed force can cover
it from the buccaneers of the Welt-Indies.—
During the exiltence of the wat, therefore, a
naval and military army cannot be dispensed
with, without relipquifhing every thing tu
chance and the good will of a horde of foreign
plunderers, aided by the bankrupts 3nd out.
cafta from our own society. To Ihefe evils
we mult submit ; by such buccaneers & out
calls our citizens mud be plundered, fllould
falfe fyllems, erroneous spiuions, or any other
motive induce thole men to withhold defence,
who alone have the power to create it.
If unfortunately a system of inaction should
prevail, to what a condition do we fubjedt
the United States at the close of the war ?
Should France emerge from it the dominating
power, and England be in 110 situation to
prevent her farther aggrandizement, we may
iindoHifelves suddenly awakened fromourfleep
of security by a treaty between France and
Spain, which mull plunge us into a war to
preftrve the unity of our country. Who can
1 doubt of the views of Fiance and Spain up
on the weflern and southern parts of the uni
ioh ? On the other hand, should England
ride out the storm and rife upon its ruins to
greater power and consequence, Ihe may put
forth pretenfiont, fthich are at present dor
mant, and require of the United States con
cessions or alliance which, if granted, mult
humble us in our own eyes and in the eyes
of all the world.
To avoid then the calamities of war, and
to secure to ourselves a position at its termina
tion which may prevent either of the belliger
ent powers from taking advantage of our
weakness, found policy requires that we should
adopt inflantaneous measures of defence, and
that we should be found prepared for war, at
a time when all Europe may seem desirous
of repose.
The distance of the United States from the
three European powers, with whieh they are
mod likely to be entangled in disputes, and
to whose colonies they are so contiguous, ena
bles them to aflame a refpeitable position
with means very difproportionedf theirs, anil
yet truly competent to secure them against
their attacks, or to annoy or reduce some of
their polTeffions If attacked. Such a position
may be maintained at a small cxpenfe ; and
till such be taken the United States mull
oontinue to be inful.'ed, abused and plundered
by thefc powers, as often as it fliali be their
, interell to violate their treaties, and set at
nought '.he laws of nations, jnflice aritl hu
manity. POL I TICU3.
' In the House of Reprefehtatives Yes
terday (the House having again formed
; itfelf into a Committee of the whole on
the Answer Reported to the President's
' speech, and Mr. Nicholas's amendment being
underconfideration) Mr. Harper resumed his
observations against the amendment, which
he delivered at great length. Mr. Gallatin
1 followed him, on the contrary fide, and ha
-1 ving noticed some remarks which fell from
Mr. Harper, that gentleman rose to explain.
The call for the " Committee to rife," and for
r the " Quc/lion," from different parts of the
' House became very loud ; when Mr Giles
rose and faiJ" the gentleman last up had
thrown out insinuations of mifconduiS a
r gainlt (he foppofed) one of our late public
functionaries in France. Insinuations of a
similar kind he had frequently heard out of
' doors, but he tha't them unworthy of no
' tice; but asthe gentleman had tho't proper
' to introduce the calumny in that Ilunfe, &
' as he was a friend of his, and not here to
' answer far himfelf, he wifiied to know
" of the gentleman, whether it was to him he
J alluded, and if it were, he called upan him
; for proof of his assertions. Mr. Harper le
plied, that he did allude to that gentleman,
e and would, at a proper time, produce evi
' dencc of what he had laid. The Chairman
e reminded the gentlemen that this conversation
' was out of order. The confufsd call of the
" Committee to rife" and the "
] was again revived ; when the motion for the
committee to rife, was put and negatived,
there being only Thirty in favor of it. The
qaeftion on Mr. Nicholas's amendment was
then put and negatived, there being 48
votes for it, and $2 against it. Mr. New
' moved that the House meet in future at ten
0 in the morning, the motion was negatived,
there being only 36 in favor of it.
d
Died, at Charleston, May 12th, capt- Aar«n
Welth, matter of the brig Active, of Philkdel
. phii; a violent paralytic flroke it Tea afew days
■ fter he left Philadelphia, was ihe caufeofhis
" !ifP>!otion. His remaips were interred on Sa
'« turd;y, in the Friends b'jrying in that city.
i>y this clay's Mail;
NEVV-YORK, May 29.
Ritnfay's Chronic!* of Apr!! 4;
contains the following : —«« Thursday r:orni»jj
arrived at Co* the American Brig Fuftieer;
fiom PortCmoutn, in JC. Hampuure. On the
a6th inft. was bojrtJerf by 1 Frenchprivaterr a
liout 40 leagued well of Caps Clear, and the
captain ordered du board withhis pipers, bu~
the sea running high he at firft d»c'ined goii("»
on which the privateer's people threatened ti>
fire into bim. which forced him to comply, and
on returning to hit own vilTel, the bolt beiii;;
very small, npfet, and the mailer, captain Molts
Titccmb, with two feahien, Edward I)eai'ii>|£
and William Stephens, were drowned j the pri
vateer then bore away, without eadeavotinp t >
alfiftthcm, and the lufileer ia Vita attempted
it."
The defeat of Prince Charles comes various
ways —a letter from U'aterford, received i» thi«
city on Friday, dated April 11, mentions it,and
that Vienna was in a eonfternatien ia coitfe
quenceof it —our late an iv\l from Bourde'x
ilfo meations it.— Comnlotioat in Ireland i--
crease. , [ Arrus.~\
* *
REMARK.
The /hip that brought the letter from IVater
ford had 48 Jays fajjage, and tnuj! have failed
the <)tb or lotb of Apr il, and 1 or 3
dajsbefjre the letter was dated.
Arrived. D*yj.
Ship Thomas, Olden, Waterford 48
Kaporia, I/Gckinfon, St. Thomas 20
Brig Sally, Thompfpa,
J 11ft Received,
From Batavia(via providence)
170 Sacks of Java ColFce of -firft quality
2co hall sack-> do. do.
a few Boxes of Spices, confining of
Nutmegs, Cioves and Mace
For sale by
WILLING? & FRANCISV
penn street.
way 30 cJtf
Lailson's Circus,
South Fifth-Street. .
The Performancet at the NEW CIRCU3
This Evening, May 30th,
Will begin by a Ctand Parade of Equeilrian
Performers of both sexes.'
A grand display of Horsemanship,
By MelTrs. M'Donald, Herman, C. Vandeveid«»
Nicholas Corre, (being his firll appearance ia this
city) Sully, (the Clown) and Laillon.
The Lofty-Tumbling Group,
Composed of Meflrs. Sully, Reano, and M'Do
nald, the Clown, will execute fev*ral difficultex
ereifes on the Stage—which will be pleasantly de
corated.
Mr. Sully, in the chara&er of Clown, will
perform a variety ps Comic Feats.
Mr. Lai lion will perform several curious and as
tonishing exereifes, which he will not undertake t >
enumerate, in order to farprizc the fpc&ator; hit
aim being to please and nothing (hall be ncg!e&<d
to render the exereifes worthy the attention of the a*
mateurs of this new art.
Bucephalus will leap over a table of a very
great height with his rider on his back.
wifs Vanice will perform several aftoniftiing
feats which has never been attempted but by her~
fclf.
After which will be prefentcd, a beautiful
French Comic Opera, called
Les Deux Petits Savoyards,
OR,
THE LITTLE CHIMNEY SWEEP.
The umfic by D'Aleyrae.
I-ord, Mr. Dcuvilliers
Clermont, Mr. PoiguarJ
Judge, Mr. Viclliard
James, Mr. St. Marc
The Sweep*) M^ c f <:ire
j J°frph> MifsSopw
The evening's entertainment will conclude with a
representation of
The four Travelling Brothers.
N. B. No person can be admitted in the centre
of thi Circuvwhich is exclusively appropriated to
the Equcdrian Exereifes.
No perl'on can be admitted without a ticket,
i which will serve for the day only.
; Days nf performance, Tuesday, Thursday,
and Saturday.
Box, one dollar. Pit, half a dollar.
The doors will be opened at half pafl five
o'clock, and the performaucen begin precisely
at seven.
I A few hhds. N. jE. Rum,
far a SUPERIOR QUALITY,
HYSON ")
YOUNG'HYSON [TEAS, ih quarter chells,
And IMPERIAL 3
FOR SALE BY
A. Marple & Ilrael W. Morris,
No. 60 Dock-street.
May 2Z mw&f<?t
300 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a certain Christopher F.Varnell,
failed from Bolton, on or about the i;th
of OtHobcr lafl, in the sloop Union, with a valua
ble c->rj -, bound to Baltimore, buv went off tu
the Wcli-Indies where he fold the veficl and
cargo. 011 or about the fir ft inft. he was appre
hended (as a fufpiclouscharadter) intbistown,
and examined before several magistrates, but
for the want of fufficient proof to dete£l him
in his vijlauy he was difeharged.
The fad is, the said Parnell is a villain, and
1 is attempting to defraud sundry perfont to the
1 amount of 20,000 dollars.
He left this town about tht leth inft. he
' rode in a chair (painted green J drawn by a grey
mare, and went on the Newbern road, but on
this fide Trenton, took the road of Fayetteville,
[ and most probably is palling through the back
part of the state into the w.ftera countries.
' He had when he left this town, upwards of
' 2000 dollars in gold, and about 7000 dollars in
bank notes.
1 Parnallis a small man, about 30 years of age,
t much pock-my ked, and has lung black hair,
remarkable {mall eyes, and has a down look
when fpeken to.
Whoever will secure the said Parnell, and
the money he has with him, and give lnforma
-1 tion to Bttnj.Williams of Baltimore, John Hogg,
- Esq. at Hilifuorough, to Mr. A. Jocelin, of this
s town, orto the fubferiber, who it in pursuit &f
i the yillain, (hall receive the above reward.
yTBNEJi CRAFT.
Wilmington, (N. C.) Ap il j6, 179 JImportant Public Document.
THIS DJT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sal.-
At the Oflice of the Ed.tor o.' ihc Gazette of the
United State?,
N?. i »q Chefout-Sijcet,
[Ptice ONI POLLAR AND FIFTT CENTS]
A FF.W COPIES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OP TUE UNITED STATES,
For the' Year 1795,
Being the I.atebt Period to which an account
can be made up.
February a». §•
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & td proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in piprs
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old in cases ot 43 dozen each
Glass Tumbler?, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, «f different lues
HazlenutS) infacks
Whiting
wTT ~ > inhhd,
WhireLead C
& Spanilh Brown J
For Sale by
PETBR BLIGHT.
January 4 $•
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN.
RETURNS his sincere thanks tothofe gentlemen by
whom he has been employed, during hisrefidence in
this City, and flatter* himfelf that the success of his
effoits, in the numerous, obflinate and dangerous dis
eases in Horses, in which he has been cnnfulted, to
gether with his moderate charges, will (ecu re their
future favors and recommendation.
He now beg* leave to inform them and the public
at large that his spacious and commodious premises,
ere&ed for the purposes above described arc open for
the reception ot pupils of either (ex, who with to be
initru&ed in the Art of Riding, and the right method
ot governing their horses, so as to ride tbem with
ease elegance, and fafety—their horses will be care
fully and expeditioufly broke, forevery purpofe,and
made obedient to he will of the riders ; the natural
powers which are (hut up in them, will be unfolded
by art, calling forth ilniformlty ot motion, and giving
to that noble animal all thofc beauties of aftion which
providence has so bountifully bellowed an them.
Also, at his hospital, every diforricrto which the
horse is liable will be treated according to the rules of
art, confirmed by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above institution has never been
qnelliooed, that it has long been wanted in this city,
every gentleman's Hud willmanifeft, and T. Swann
as the fiiftcflahlither ol the veterenary art, solicits and
lelies upon the fuppoitof that public (which he is
ever anxious in serving) to enable him to biingit to
peife&ion. The idea of a subscription for that pur
pofehas beeu hinted by several gentleman, who with
to promote the inditution—the amount of each sub
scription to be returned by services in any of the de
pa rtmentsfhe profeflcs, agreeable to the rate of charges
Uatcd in his hand bill. SwchfUbfcription is now o
pen, and the iignat'urcs of many tefpedable gentlemen
.already obtained. He therefore injorms hit friends
and jfuch Lartiet and gentlemen to whom be has not
the honor of being kjjown, that he th*ll in a few
days takcthe liberty of waiting upon them and solici
ting their and protection.
N. B. Houes are properly prepared for those La
dirsaad Gciiiiexnenvvho with to be inftru&ed.
Nov. 5; tth<Scf«
Advertisement.
To he fohi ut private file,
A LIKELY strong bay HORSE, s ye«rs
old, fit for the saddle. Also, a likely full
blooded MARE, 4 years old, runs well, and is
now fit for the path— hey are lately from Vir
ginia, asd may be seen at the ftab'es of Jamts
M'Cawley, No. 45 in Cherry alley. Any per
son defirousto Tiuy either or both, mull apply
to the owner, at Ar. Valley's corner cf Cherry
alley and Fourth-fireet.
May 22.- ■ 3t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh, Carli/le,
Soippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are rfequeftcd to take notice, that
the partnership which has for sometime fub
fiiled betweaß Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now difTolved: but, not as M.
Slough infinnates to the public without jufl cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fuh
je&irom M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December lafl. a recital of which is Hot now deem
ed necefiary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumflantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ©f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeclly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleated to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
MeflVs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention andiifpatch t"hit a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
thofc wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, 011 every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
cftablifhed.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
a. Stage will flirt every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thcice and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
I.ancafter or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster. Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Line ©f Stages ftartd from the
house of William Fermc, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 ©'clock, pro
ceeding so.the westward; and from the house of
wr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence ©n every Thursday : performing th«
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
COLD JJND SILVER
iiullion. ,
THE highest price in ready money will be gi- 1
ven for gold or silver bullion, old gold or 1
silver, or gold dust, at No. J"9, North Seventh- 1
llreet. ]
April ao zavr6w
A FEW BOXES OP ]
Bologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, to be Sold st No.
199 S. uth Front-Street. I
April >o, rots
THE ho!der» of Robert Morris ar.d Joha Ni
ciiolf.n's note* and acceptances, deprfited as
cuUateralfecuritiesfor the engagements of Edward
Fox and JamesGr,-enlc.»f, are requeflcd to
TAKfe NOTICE
That the fubferibers, ct.ihe rcqucll and by the
authority of the holders of near nine tenths of the
amount of the papor above alluded to, have receiv
ed from George Simpfon, Efq an alignment of the
trust under which the said notes and acceptances
{ are secured, together with all the deeds and obli
gationsthereunt. attached—therefore any applica
tion lor £ale of apy part of fa d propcrtyis to be
made to THOMAS W- FRANCIS,
1 HENRY I'RA IT,
John mii.iep, jun.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
March 2. m&th'f
JNi otJce.
April id. 1797.
THE Managers of the Canal Lottery, No.
11, an nounce to public, that tl.e
drawing will pofitjvely commence 011 the twen
s ty-ninth of May next. Tickets to be had of
either of the managers, and at the Canal Office.
Wm. MOORE SMITH, Sec'y.
April 3 mth,ti9thM
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For prifiting and publishing, by subscription, The
, History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the original institution and
settlement of that province, under the firft propi i
etor and governor, William Penn, in 1681, 'till
after the year 1742; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpefting the Life of W. PENN,
Prior to the grant of that Province, and the reli
gious Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORINGCOLONIES,
more particularly of WEST-NEW-JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES ou DEL A-
I WARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general state, in which it flouriftied,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The
I whole including a varietv of things, ufeful and in
teresting to be known, refpefting that country in early
time, &c. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years 17 76* and 1780,
By Robert Proud.
4t Pulchrum ejl beuefacert rcipublicce, etiam Ixnedicerc
hand abfur dun eft, vcl pace vel btllo clarum fieri licet**
i sal. Catalin.
"Stdcum plerique arbitrcntur res lellicas majores ejfe
quam urbanas, minuendaefi hacopinio/*
Cic. off. !
(Entered auordinglo law,)
" WILLIAM PENN, the great iegiflator of the
Quakers, (in Pennsylvania) had the fuccels of a con
queror, in cflabliftiing and defending his colony, a- 1
niong savage tribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodness of the mod benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubjedls as his own children ; and the tender
nels of an universal father, who ©pened his arms to
all mankind without diflinftion o< feft or party. In
his Repubtoe it was not his religious creed, but per- ,
lonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the prote&io© and emolument of the State'"
EJfay on Toleration, by Arthur O'Leary.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be "printed in two oflavo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in (heep and
calf, for the choice ot the fubferibers; on paper simi
lar to that of the conditions, as publi/ksd in the Subjcrip- .
tiQn papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
sketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in fhecp, and five dollars in calf s—one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfetibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firtti volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery ot the fccond.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out to press and finifhed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jun. Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins, Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pleafantsand George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other pcrfons both
in town and country*
February 18. lu&f
To be fold or let,
And immediate poffeflion given,
A genteel two story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the unper end of Broad-street, in
the city of Burlington, with four rooms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
fence, with a flable adjoining the yard., Tbe
whole property is in good order.
F®r terms apply to the subscriber m Burlington,
ivho will give a credit for a considerable part of
the pur chafe money if good l'ecurity is given.
William Coxe, jun.
May 17. aawtf
William Haydon,
Drawing Majler, from London ;
WHERE he studied several years under one
of the most eminent mailers in that sci
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen
at their refpecflive lioufes. His terms ara fix
jiollarfrper month for attendance three times
per week ; likewise all kind of ornamental
painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above ,
terms.
A line directed to W. Haydon, No. 26, Pear
street, will be immediately attended to. ,
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be- par- 1
ticularly advantageous, where there are several
pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al- ,
teration in his terms if.there are two or three |
to teach in one family.
May 9 . j
This Day is Pubiifhed,
BY MefT* l>obfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the,
other Booksellers,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on IVovr paper, and Hot
prejfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the fevjral States with eaeh other, Bnd with f
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
clafling together their most important provisions, j
under the several heads cf administration; with
Notes aiidObfervationt.
Ey WILIJAM SMITH, j
Of South Carolina, I
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States. li
Dedicated to the People ol the United States. ti
N. B. A few Copies printed on an isfcrior pa- 5
per, at 3-4ths t f 1 dollar.
February 6 mwf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
j And for laic by John Morton, No. n6, South
Front it reet,
Hvfon
Hyson Skin (-pEAS
Young Hyson £
Imperial J
April 20.. sots
* To be bold,
The time of a Negro Man,
c VTTHO has about fix years and an half to
VV fervr. He is honoft and sober, a toler
able waiter, and understands driving a carriage.
For term* apply at No. 113, Souih Third
St reft.
May 25. eod6t.
All persons who ha,ve any demands
Against the estate of J&hn Finiay, deceased,
are requelled to exhibit their accounts proper
'• ly attested on or before the 23th of May next —
e and those who are indebted to said cAate are re
>" quested to make immediate paymeßt vo either of
'f the Subscribers.
:■ ROBIiHT HENDERSON,) .. . .
JOHN M'CARA, 5 JJn " n '/ lratorl
April 26.
Translations.
MEMORIAL?, advertisements, epistolary,
and Jothcr writings in French and En
glifti, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, A. M.
translator of Le Moniteur, L'Obfervateur, Les
Quatre Fils Aymons, L'Heroine Americain,
and many other French authors.
' S. C. has beesn in the habit of compiling for
the most approved publications, & occafieiially
j attending where the hurry of bufinels may re
quire his immediate attendance.
Encouraged and aflifted by gentlemen of
abilities, he propefes publifcing by fubferip
. tion, a work in French and Englilh, by the
c title of The American Spectator. The profpeil
, us may be seen at his lodgings, No. 67, Arch
' Jireet.
#7.' f
Benjamin & Jacob John/on,
No. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia,
HAVE just received by the Conne6hcut and oiher
late arrivals irom Liverpool, a general aiTort
[ ment of well chosen
' Dry Goods,
} For the ensuing Season, for sale on lowest terms
for caih or the common credit.
A large collcftion of Books at their usually mo
derate prices#
f 4th month, 25th, »797» tw&f4
To be fold at Public Vendue,
' To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25 th
.day of Oilober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
About {even thousand acres of land,
\ the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
. lying between Reifter's-town and Weltminfter v
; commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
- pike road runs through a cOnsiderable partjof
- these lands) the trail begins about 17 miles
' from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
1 of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
' more, and lias on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on taeh trail,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr^fs.
ALSO,
A traft of seven hundred acres of
laqd, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenihurg, elleemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenfburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A traft of land of about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeil, from which may be fcen the
city of Walhingtcn, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfburg, will alfe shew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. he terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 W3ITI
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrail of an ail passed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 29th December,
1791, entitled, " All ail for ereiting a bridge
over Potowmac river.
And be it enabled, that the said direitors or
any two of them lhall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportiou from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time !
be neceflary for earn ing on the building of said
bridge; and after giving three months public
notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the direil- !
ors K> sue for and recover in the nama of the j
company such unpaid requisition, with all coils :
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest '
thereon from the time the fame (hould have |
been paid: And the negledl or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice (hall have ]
been given at leafl for three months in all the ,
newspapers herein before enumerated, stall have ,
the effeil to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the (hare <jr (hares so negleiled or retufed to
be paid to the use and benefit of the company." |
The above extrail is published for the infor- <
mation of such of the stockholders as have not a
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follflw : On the ill November, ■
1795, 20 dojlare, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the loth July, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time l .
limited for the continuance of this advertise- (
ment [three months) the law will be carried f
into rigid and complete effeil against all dejin- "
quents.
Bv order of the Direilors,
WALTER SMITH, Treasurer. f
Georgetown, May I, 1797. £
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second-street. 0
1
r THICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for fate E
i- —This Lottery will positively commence 1
drawing the 29th day of May n«xt—Checkbooks A
for registering and examination in this, the City
of Walhington, No. 2, and Paterfon Lotteries, J
now drawing, are kept—alfo'information wheie
Tickets in Wafliingtonj No. 2, and Patterfon may
be had—Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
lor sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as ifiued
Ticketsin all the other Lotteries authorized by the' P
Legislature of this (late will be for sale.
The (übfcriberfolicits the application of the pub
lic and his friends who wifli to fell bank (lock, cer
tificates, bifls of exchange or notes, houses, land
fee. or to obtain money on depefit of property. n
H'ILLIAM BLACKBURN. n
April g. 2a .y»
TEAS.
A FEW cbefts of Imperial, Hyson Skin and
Souchong Teas of a superior quality for
sale at the store of the fubferiber, the north
west corner of Market and 1 hird-fireets.
Patent Shot.
ALSO,
A large CELLAR to be let at a very low tent.
Enquireas above of RICHARD WISTAR.
April 29. ftu&ihlm
For Sale,
'• That well known place, called Vandbosift's
Ft RR Y,
ON Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phili
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
j containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ltery stone houie or.cu
* pied as a tavern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame ftabk: with a good tbrelhing
~ floor, and l'otne out buildings—also a well of
" good water, and an excellent ice House. On
' this place is a moll elegant situation for a gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
r ir.y to its junilinn wiili the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey (hor». It has the privilege
_ of one half the toll received from the biidge.
For terms apply to the Ssbfitriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
i?ay 24. 3tawtf.
* T O B E S OL D,
' And pofleflion given immediately,
F A Lot of Land ;
y OITUATED in Mount-Holly, in the county
. O of Burlington, in New-Jersey, lately occu
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ara
f an excelleut brick house, two ftoi ies high, with
. four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good
e stable, carriage house and other buildings. The
. situation is valuable for business of any kind, and
. at lead equal to any other in the tow«.
The terms of payment will be made easy to
the purchaser. Apply to Wiliiam Rofiell, Esq.
uire, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in Mount-Holly, or to the Subscriber, in the city
of Burlington,
r JOSEPH M'IWAINE.
Burlington, 27th April May S—J3W5 —J3W
Chocolate and Milliard
Manufailured as usual,
Ginger and Fepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barfey
Bliiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon—suitable
1 for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street.
May 18 th4W
City of Wa&ingxon.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of tie Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house 30,000 dollars,
& ca(h 30,000, are 50,00 c
1 ditto 15,000 & cafli 25,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 Sc cadi 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & ca(b 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,e00 xo.ooo
1 cafli prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are « 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
20 do. 50Q - - 10,000
00 do. too - - to,ooo
200 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
1,000 do. 29 30,000
15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
*6,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l* st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved cotes, securing payment in either
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received fpi any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ertiled in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful deligns are already
(eleiled for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawing* it ispropofed to eredl
two centre and 'our corner buildings as foonaspqf
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery.' A nett deduilion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necefiary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be eieiled within the city of Walhington.
The real fecurittesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, arc held by tbe Prcfident and two Direil
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lattery.
SAMUEL bLODGET.
.§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ;of John Hoi ins, Richmond ; j
and of Richard Wtlls, Cooper's Ferry. j
mwf ,
For Sale,
At the Office ot the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chelhut-flreet,
The lajl Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury J being a brief hillory of the .
Hate of financial <-oncerns of the United States. (
The Proceedings of the Executive <
of the United States refpeiling the western in- '
I furreiiion : Containing many fails and cir
cum(lanceß 110 where else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to r
our minifler in France. 37 1-2 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
179 5-
A few copies of the volume for 1794 tniy be
had to complete f?tts. a
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. 12 1-2 cents.
April 3. §
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen. r
Pinckney. e
*A few copies of the above intsrlfung paper, £
may be had at the office of the Gazette o£ the U- r.
nitedStatcs.
May 13 £
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three story -Brick House ;
r QITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
> J Pennsylvania, the lot on which it (lands, to
gether witn the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreei. Tbe houl'e is about jo
feet in front on and about 41 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on GoforthJ
street, being a ftreerwhich leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dcck-ilreet at the
- horse market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
s rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit-
I then, with extensive cellars under, and garrets
e over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between tl»i« houl'e
. and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
„ yard, a hancjfomc piazza fronting the vacant
. lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on'
n Gofonh-ftreet. The premises now rent fat
/C-3 '8 per annum. To be fold clear, of all in«
cumbrances.
e For terms apply to John Clement Starker/
e April *0 jiwtf
Maurice Moyniharl ?
No. 8 1, North SecondJlrcet,
A few door 6 stjoive
INFORMS his frjenjs and the public, that he has
for whojefple or retail, on the lowest terms, a
genial assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumbl«rs, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint,
«>ill and half gjll do. exa<sl meafujes, decanters and
Y wine glasses ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
1- bowls, and cHiia in sets and l'eparatc ; pocket
3 bottles : Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
b half gallon bottles ; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
j N. B. Crates put up with care at the lhortefl no
e tice.
J May n. dtf
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
> Company,
) May ift, 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrearsfor any fumsdue on their
refpeflive stares, are refuelled to pay the
fame.
WILLIAM GOVETT, Treasurer.
10 ni4w
To be fold at private sale,
r A TWO story dwelling house and lot of ground
XA. in the city of Burlington, state of New-Jer
sey, in a healthy and pleafaut situation. Tha
house is of brick,containing four good sized rooms
J with a convenient kitchen and cellar. The lqt,
on which is a liable, &c. contains about an acre of
land of the belt quality, with a front fufficient to
admit two 01 three large houlcs, independent of
that part at present occupied by the house.
For fuither particulars enquire of Joseph M'U
vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or Jefeph Reed, No.
»14, High-street, Philadelphia
This Day is published,
By THOMAS DO BSO N,
At the Stone House, No. 41 fouthSecond-ftreet,
Price 37 i-» cents,
2 wo Leisures on Comhujlioti.
QUpplementaryto a course of Lc&ures on CHE-
O MISI'RY ; containing an Examination of D„r.
Prieftliy's Considerations on the Do&rine of Phlo
giston, and the accompofition of Water,
By JOHN MACLEAN,
Proftflbr of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy
in the College of New-Jtrfey.
t Ma y 11 mwfjp
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every stage of
that difeaft*, without the use of mercury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple, on
application at .No. 113, Chefnut-frreet, oppofije
the United States bank, or at No. 170, S«uth VVa
ter-ftrect, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
he ha* opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
pledges himfelf, that nofyftem of cure (however
specious) can be cffefiual without mercury, and
that all the known rules cf practice for thcie two
centuries past, and united experience affirms, that
any fubllitute for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of prafiice to the contrary mull be futile and de
ceptious.
Nevertheless, he undertakes, however compli
cated tbe cafe, to effeift a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's conftitutiou, and
in time not generally experienced or expedted.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
ftreet, from f te hour o£ nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven ; but any o.'hcr time at his dwelling
house, in Chefnut street,
Mayi 6. dtf
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further aflefiinent of fifteen
dollars is levied on each Ihare, payable in the
following instalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
Onequarteron the lft of June.
One quarter ou the ift September.
One quarter on the ift Dee. next.
Which they are to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that on their neglc&ing to pav the
fame as above directed, the several forfeitures
direiled by the Conftitutjon, willl be exacted
JBy order of the Board,
SOL- MARACHE,
Treasurer.
May 15 ' jj'inti
Gold and Silver Watches*
OF an excellent quality, and neat fafhionabl*
Gold Chains, Se?ls and Keys, Eight Day
Clocks and Time Pieces, fafhionable Steel and Gilt
Chains, See. &c. for Sale by
JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. 38. S. id street
Clocks and Wacchcs of all kinds carefully
repaired.
May 19. tuef.&fa.'3w
For Sale,
At this Office,
A r o. 11<) Chefvutjlritt,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Senate, on-tKe fubje& of the
GEORGIA LAAtiS.
March 13 £
Caution.
THE Public are hereby forewarned against
truflnrg the step-daughter of the Subscrib
er, and he mother, his second wife. Repeated
mifcondudl compels him.to forbid any person to
give them credit on his account, as he will pay
r.o debts of their contra'Aifig after this date.
LUNO JtROWN.
Pl.ilad.lphia ( May 16, 1797 18—^Jth^t