. . . . * ' ' - •t : .;' ' t - " , ■ , -
• . * • '
of the Unites States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1393.] FRIDAT EVENING, FEBRUA RT 24, *797. \7OLUMB XI,
For CHARTER,
THE Danish brio
Friendship,
J? v- - Lofentx 'Malr.cn, Majier,
A strong, new vessel, with a Mediterranean Pafs,bar
then aSeut 140 tons. For fem« apply t0
February 19—§ PHILIPS, CR AMOND & Co
for Freight JFor Newbury-porfc, Portf
-«»©utt-or Befton,
yMf THE SCHOONER g.
I NDUSTRY ' J,
Francis Salter, Majier, -
JS now ready to take in freight, at Arch-street wharf.
Apply to the matter on board.
FOR SALE,
A few barrels Excellent CYDER. / -
February 18 !■ lw T
For Charleston and Savannah, ney,
THE ICHOONIR C^*e
Oliver yen tins, Majier,
WILL take freight ©n'moderate term», and be ready to 1 *"■
ake in in a fsw. days. Apply to
JOSEPH AN THONY & Co.
Febrmry *3
£jki. For Sligo and Killibegs,
wjsMjSh* The American Ship Nanct, g .
s Cuthbert Riggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient l'peed. For
freight or pafiage apply to F ; v(
William Bellj sou
Who has for sale, , r "
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted Si*
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 1 boxes Ltrieni *■><:
'ls Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matts, : *
A "°' e;„
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK, ~
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11. 1796,
For Rotterdam,
Edward Jones, Majier,
HAVING the greatest part of her cargo engaged, will
fail with all convenient speed. For Freight or Passage, ap- ]
dlv to the captain on beard, or to Th
V " V JOSEPH SIMS-
February 22 mw&f tf p r ;
For Amsterdam, _
. The falV-failing cedar and live oak
A>ip Amiable, .
D' C ' Tihinghaft, Majier,
JUST graved and in compleat order, and is npw ta
king in, and intended to fail in all this month, a great
part of her cargo being ready to go on board, has good
apply to the master, o* beard, at Bright s whart, _
JEREMIAH WARDEN,
No. i» South Third street. /-
mw#f*w
For Hamburgh, . H
The fir.efaft-failingftiip 3
Juhn Thompjon, Majier, cr
IUST coppered, and in complete order, and is now loading, m
A conhtlerable part of her cargo is has goo-I aceom- of
moda.ions for passengers. and intended to fail in the " >u ' ff at
of this month.—For freight or pafiage, apply to me falter h,
on board, at Br.ghf. WARDE R, £
No, 11 north Third ftr<-*t.
giy&hw *
Janies Brown,
At No. 119 South SecondJlrcet, • 1
HAS just received per thd krif Peggy, "pt- Hir y,
from Amsterdam, a small inv«ice of D B T C H
GOODS, confiding of p
Ticklcnburgs 0
Flaxen linen Oznaburgs i 0
Coffee-Mills, No. o to 4 a
Straw knives
Scythes 10 hands long—and
Glass tumblers assorted
Which he will fell on go»d terms by the package.
Mfo on hand,
A few Quarter-calks Malaga WINE, and
500 Oallons'Spirits Turpentine. f
February 23
<£>■ NOTICE.
r-pHE Sales of LANDS of the United States, 111 the
A North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public papers, will commence this even
ing, at the Citv Tavern to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4 I
Notice
THE ELEPHANT will leave town positively ear- ;
'.y in March.
Admittance—one quarter of a dollar.
Children —half price.
N. B. An ELEPHANT TOOTH weighing 54
pounds to be fold. Enquire at the place where the Ele
phant is kept.
Feb. 20. '■
On Saturday,
The »sth instant, at 7 o'clock in the evening,
Will be Sold by Außion, at the Cojfcc-Houje,
Three adjoining LOTS of GROUND, in the township
ef a little to the fouthwardof South-street,
and adjoining a 30 feet wide lane, called the Irish Tract
Lane, and alio adjoining lands of Samuel Powell, de
ceased.
No. 1. Containing 4 acres and 83 perches
No* 2. Containing 4 acres and 83 perches
No. 3. Conraining 4 acres and $6 perches
Plans of the Lots are at the Coffee-Houfe.
Feb. ' EDW RD FOX, Auft'r.
IVJ NTS A PLACE.
A Woman who can be well recomineeded for honesty, so
briety, ar- 1 good temper. She wiihes to eng.ige as cham
bermaid, or frmpftrefs for low wages On condition she tnav
retain a young child with her. Enquire at No. 58 South
Front ttreet. February if d
A Quantity of' Brandy,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhd» QI
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each O
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints tie r.
Window Glass, in boxes, of different tizes lie, 1
Hazlenuts, in sacks k " vi
Whiting "V rfiO
w"X.d i->*; £5
Sc Spanilh Brown ) (
For Sale bv PETER BLIGHT. ih "
iVirw Pickering's Letter.
' This Day Published, /»i
AND FOR SALE BY THE EDITOR, °' e
Price three eights of a Dollar. J
THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Finck- z ™/.
ney, Minjfter PlsnipotetvJary of the United States, to
the French Republic. February 9. °^
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds> /■
Roots, ijfe. &c.
, This day larding from the lhip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Sccond-ftreet?,
A titaji capital and tptenfivc Ajfortmtnt of
GARDEN, GRASS arxi FLOVVER-SEEPS,
r ROOTS, &c. Sic. 1
Among which are,
Five kinds _ Afparagusl Three kinds Cresses
Four Berecole] Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beam: I'birttco Radish J
Sis Fifteen Turnig e
Eleven Brocoli Fifteen Peal
Twenty-C* Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carrot Four Parlnip
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twtnty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme " u
Curled kaf anj sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Mr-.rjorum
- Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel K'
Leek Kail Shallot;.
Rape Seed Rye Graft Saint Fein Lacern* Pj
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the mod esteemed , ,
" FLOWER-SEEDS and ROO TS,
?" Being the most extensive ever imported into thi« city. 2 |j
The above ar? ffom a capital Seedfmaii in Londen, and
are warranted frelh and good. Pcp c
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17 J §
For Sale,
8000 dozen BR ISTOL BOTTLER
fcr IRON /
ICE f
a- TAR
at CLARET, in hoglheadj andcafes " r
3d* SWEET OIL in cases ftl
y FebcMarv in { Applv-w T ,„
Fop Sale, p
A rk AC 7 OF LAND,
'. - ; n
Vl tant from Belie-Air, 17 from Baltimore : the im- ( K
provements are, a tws-ftoiy brick dwelling-houle, finifh
ed in a genteel manner, with Hone kitchen aad odlar ; t ,
a barn, and other Convenient out buildings; a GRISTi IU
MILL, lately built, in a good stand fer country or mer- c j
chant work ; apple-orchard and other fruit-trees; 30 a
cres of prime timothy meadow ; and nearly as much more
ng. may be made from tin conveniency of watering; 80 acres x
>m- of woodland, welltimnered. The fields are well laid off,
lrfe and under gopd fence ; the situation is ver/ plealent -.tui
flier healthy. The whole of this property may be had for
»stoi. Two thirds in hand, and the remainder in cafy
payments, azjol. wquld be taken, ail caih. Poflefiion
might bejhad in 60 days after contract, and an indifputa
f ble title given by ROBERT BRYARLIi.
February 20
Pennsylvania Population Company;'
NOTICE is hereby given, to such Share-holders as
as havs not paid their affrflments on theirihares—to
"jj pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa r
ny, at the CompaHy's Office, No. 53 north Foutthrllreet,
Rhiladelphia. They are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
bruary, instant, the feyeral forfeitures will be ftri&ly cz- ,
atfted, in conformity to the lift article of association.
By order »f the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
Feb 2. 4 §3O
JUST AKRIVED, I
BytheDanifh ftiip Friendlhip, captain Matzen, from '
Oporto, '
Red Port Wine,
{n Pipes, Hoglheads an 4 Quarter-Calks, ]
4 So Boxes ps Lemons,
:,red |For Sale by
Vh'y Philips, Gramond Co.
aner February 9 § ;
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
ear- and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wra. Blackburn,
Ne. 64, South Second-ftrset
January 16. mwftf
pQR
i. Philip Nicklin & Co.
l-«-r -}
17 Tubs QuickfilvfS
, a Chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
nfhip A few chefls Mancheftef Goods, wcjl assorted in Cor-
Ireet, duroys, Thicksets. Ginghams, Muflinett, Dimities, &c,
iaci 3 Trunks black Sewing Silk
, de- 180 Crates Queen's Waie, well assorted
10 Tons SUeet Lead
"Nails assorted flat and Hiarp point*
London Partialar 7 Madeira wine in pipes and hngf-
India Market j heads
40 Pipes and 10 Hogsheads Teneriffe Wins
7 Tierces Snake-Rnot
|r, fry- 26 Calks yellow Paint '
ham- 9 Boxes and 14 Bundles writing Slatet
may I Box Ink Stands end Note PrelTes
South 14 Bales Sail Canvass assorted, No. J to 8
d February n. rnw&ftf
Grand Concert.
On SATURDAY EVENING, tbt 15*
At OELLER/S ROOM. me 5 r
SIGNOR TRISOtfIO, from Italy, proftfor of votaJ music, frQp
propofet to give a concert ef vocal and tnjirumcital mufti in pj_
the no/} complete manner, •which 'will manifcfl his rcfptß to a pub
lic, tjultofe preteßian he entreats fir the Jtrjl time. He is hapby in p
hanfinor cr'Jtged tivo ladies, his fcbolars, no nely, Mrs. Htndmy
AiJdkt- ivhn -will Jing several JAtft pi-(es ; and Adr..
Salrcjhrf who "-c.il fir.g an Italian air. There will he executed
a du*t t and a catch by three voices. The leader ef the bind Air. / j
Collet, iv ill perforin a eortcerto en the violin, and mr. Guenin *no
ther on the piano forte. Amongst several serious and co&ic songs
which Signor Trifibio will Jim*, be prumifes to perform a t/io a-
lone ; that is to fay, an imitation of three Italian Nuns ; and af
terwards the favourite comic song of the Cats* Almofi all the sings
Iwhich vuill he sung, ivilibs printed with the muftc, and exposed
for the eonvsnience of -whoever zvijhes to pur chafe ihem t 4 Tickets
One Dollar, to be had at Qeller's Hotel; at mr. Bradford.'' s book' R av ,
fore, No. 8, South Front street ;at mr. Willigi mujtcal mejra- \f e
zine. No 185, marhet-Jlrctt ;at mr. Chalky circulating library, Que
Thirdftreet, between Arch and Ratefireeti; ani at mr. Trifobio, Onr
1)1 0. 66, North Frontflrcet. — i>pff
The Concert will commence at 6 o'clock* Mot
> February 18. * ?**__
~ For Sale, ~ 1 '
A. Quantity of Excellent
Turks-Island Salt,
And a few liogfhcadj Stoc
3d and 4th proof Rum. the
Enquire of
» Jehu Hollingswortk iff Co.
February 17 $ c
» Mahogany and Logwood.
A Cargo for Sale on board of the fcip Sally, captain .
; Gelflon, just arrived fror-i HoniUjas. a
, Applyw T. _ - froc
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co. J ss
February y § Stri
' • Le Breton,
" SURGEON-DENTIST, l„d
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, Dentift to the She
Kmg and Royal Family of France, member of the Jac
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris, 801
Keep> a complete assortment of every thing necefiary Mi
to be used for«the
PrefervatLon of the Mouth Teeth.
Patent. Mineral Teeth, and-Hiiiiiiii t Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powdeV; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for 'j- a
sweetening the mouth and prefervi'ng the teeth —he jj| t
alio furnifhes Brushes and foft Sp jnges. W
*** He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, ab«ve Di
Fourtb-flreet. M
November 26. tt» Ta
A House an 4 Lot?.
FOR SALE,
AHQTJSE ?.nd Lot, in a good neighbourhood, and 1
fituation; it is tlje Houfe cad of sth c
street, of that handfomc row of new buildings, now near
finjlhing, situate on Arch, between Fourth and Fif.h
ftreers ; and about twenty feet front ?nd forty-two feet
' iugtoth' South, of perhaps three hundred feet *lore.
Poffeflion may be had ab;jut the ill of April or May next.
Terms are, three thousand dollars to be paid on receiv
ing the title, and the residue if dehrcd may remain for
;r °" seven years on feeurity and interefl—
'll" Or vacant'lots, CtHatc on Arch street, any where be
twe ,1 Front and Twelfth streets, will be taken in pay-
'' " meat, either in part or for the whole amount ol the pur
,er" chafe ; according to their value at liberal rates.
' a " Faa further particulars, please to apply at the Counting
ore House of the Subscriber, Arcii-ftrcct, No. 146, any
:reli morning, from 7to 8 o'clock.
off, WILLIAM SANSOM.
'.n#J Febrmry 2;
;a f y For Sale by the Subscribers,
Son - Georgia Cottpn
ita- Carolina Indigo
J'yal and Teneriffe Wines
Ravens Duck
Ouriihs
/• Coffahs
5 38 India Bandana Handkerchiefs
-to (Due Trun)t containing Sewing Silks and Sil*.
lp^r and Cotton Handkerchiefs.
Zu N. £5" J.FRAZIER,
Fe _ No. 95, S. Front-street.
e»- february 21. 4W3taw
CAM! L4.A,
f Or A Picture of Youth. i
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com- -
priied in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable ' c
rom 0D delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John I
Bull. f
<
I. Handsome, neat type, perfedlly new, is em- '
ployed. _ '
11. A volume, Hitched in blue paper, is intended '
to be publilhed every 2 weeks, till the five are com- '■
pleted; the firll and fecend art come to hand, and the '
third is hourly expedled. Subscriptions are received,
5 and Books may be had of J. ORMROD, No. 41,
Chefnut-ftreet-
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
larlh authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
1, in to add to tne laurels she has already acquired in, the
y to literary world. The strength of imagination and ele
gance of style, displayed in Evelina and Cecilia, will
' t fufficientjy lecommend to every reader of taste and 1
judgment, the perusal of Camilla.
England, after having perused this interesting publi- .
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thousand
pounds sterling, as a tellimany of her approbation of
the work.
January 15 mw <^
LANDING,
C°r- A T Walnfit-ftreet wharf, from on board the (hip Peg
&c, X\. gy, captain Elliott, from Bourdeaux,
VIN DE GRAVE, or White Claret, in Hhds and Qr.
Calks
RED CLARET, in Khds ?
Ditto in cases of 14 and 30 bottles each j
rings- Green and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chests
(K a( ' s For sale by
Rundle & Leech,
Walnut.ftreet.
February 6 mwftf
A Woman Cook,
WHO can be well recommended, naay hear of a good
place by euqu tinj of the Printer,
tits February 17. TTfcSjw.
Liffaon Wine.
5® Pipe* of Lilbon Wine, landing at Mefirs. Sum
mer! & Brown's wharf, between _A,'ch and Race streets,
' from ship Ifleptune, Capt. Jeffries, from Lilbon. in
' Pipes, Hosfheads and Quarter Calks, for sale by
*' PETER BLIGHT.
\ February jB. §-7 t
) " Bourdeaux Brandy, in Pipes,
OLD Claret, in cafics
Ditto in cases, ot aH <juajity
s Lifoon Wine in pipes
Fourth "'proof Holland G?n
" New-England Rum ifi hogsheads and tiertcs
Rajftns irv kegr
' Befjt Boston Beef and Pork.
Halifax Salmon in bairels
* RuiTia Sail Duck
" Ravens Duck
" A few Feather Beds
;
Spermaceti Candles
Mould and dipt Tallow ditto
A few barrels Tanners Oil, and
A ftnall invoice of India Goods,
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY fc Co
ALSO,
Just received from Marfeilfcj, a (mall invoice of Silks, Silfc.
Stockings, an afTortitieut ot Perfumery, aaa a few cafe* qf
the best Olive Oil.
February 15 slft*
~ Mas. G RAT T A N
Refpe&fully informs her friends, ancf the public in
general, that on the icth day of January,
(he proposes opening, at Nq. 39, North Sixth;
n ® peet »
A Linen and Muslin Wajfehoijfij
-800 l Mumns, to li/r7~per yard
Jaconet ditto, from %f% to 9/8 per yard
__ Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/ic per yard
Fine Cofiaes
Tambour'd Boole Muslins, from 13/9 to llf per yar^
India Muslin, froiji 11/3 to 15/" per yard s
le Sheeting Muslin
le Jaconet muslin Handkerchief*, from 4/3 to 6f per hdkf,
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from ,5/3 to 14/6 per
-y Muslin color'd andborder'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
j Tamb«ur'd Cravats from 10/8 to liffl
' Pocket Handkerchiefs
1 > Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
or Table Clotks »
' le Huclcabuck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from to 13/ per pur
ve Dimity from 5/10 to 6fn ,
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd muilin Handkerchiefs from 11/u to isfl '
Irifli linens for Geutleir en's Shirts, from s/S t0 ftO*
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready maif
n( j Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled of plain, Qttyftf,
.Pocket Handkerchiefs, Stc. &c.
, ar Ho.ufhold Linen, &c.
(• f, A/plain Ihirt, made and mark'd, 3 l-i
eet A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
(fp. A aLd mark'd, S —
re _ ~A plain fliirt, made and marked, 5 i-x dollar*.
:xt- A full ruffled ditto J dollars.
L v . A plain Ihirt, made aqd marlf'd, 6 dollara.
f or A full ruffled ditto 7 j 1.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 f-1 dpllara.
b e . A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
ar- This Day is Publifbed,
By Meflrs. W. Cobeett & John ORMffOD,
in s BITRKE's LETTERS
' n) On the proposals Of making PEACE with the
REGICIDE DIRECTORY
I OF
i- FRANCE.
r=r#3t
RICE.
180 Tierces Rice for Said by
Samuel Breck, Ji#n ?
No. 89 South Third Street
LIKEWISE,
IS or ao Pockets COTTOM, and
A Quantity I. H- SHERRY WINE,
50 Cases SWEET OIL, &c. &c.
e£ j Febinaiy 11 tl>)&f6t
Notice-to Calico Printers,
SHERIFFS SALE
BY virtue of a Writ of Venditioni Exponas, to Jfie di~
re&ed, will be exposed to sale at the dwelling-house
able' of William and Thomas Jordans, in Chrilfiana Hundred,
ohn Newcaflle county State of Delaware, on Wednesday, the
firft day of March next, at tea o'clock, a m, of laid day,
the following described property, consisting of, frame
em . buildings, fcveral Urge coppers, a valuable Callender, al
so, a number of prints and a machine all in good order ";
lded ft° ves > household and kitchen furniture, two valuahle cows
om _ and a quantity of scantling, being seized and taken in er
-1 t L ecution as the property of William and Thomas Jordans,
1 . and will be fold' for caih, by
WILLIAM STIDHAM, Seriff.
7 * February 11, 1797
TO BE SOLD -
ated ®y Vendue at the Merchants' Coffee-Houle In
logy Second-street, on Saturday the 23th instant, at J
t lj e o'clock in the evening,
elp- A WELL finiftied three story brick hoilfe, three
will or y b. r ' c k kitchen, and lot of ground, Ctuate
and prl Fourth-street, near Saflafras or Race
ftreet, No. 47, narth : aontaiuing in breadth on Fourth
,n street about 17 feet, and in depth feet. Sub
obli- j est t0 a yearly ground-rent of 71. and clear of every
ifand ot her incumbrance. It is nowletat isol per annum ;
>n of t ' le estate, and by the Executors of the lift will
and testament of William Lehman, deceased. The
lw terms of payment will be made easy, and the condi
—it; tious, pubiifhed at the time and place of sale, by
WILLIAM SHANNON, "Audioneer
Peg- February 21 s 4 t
i Qr. Important Public Document.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
? And for Sale
At the Office of tire Editor of the Gazette of the
United States,
No. 119 Chefuut-Srreet,
[price one dollar and fifty cents]
:et. A FEW COPIES OF THfc
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
good For the Year 1795, —
Being the LATEaT Period to which an account cai» ks
be made up. February aa §
1BRITISH HOUSE OF COMMONS.
Tburfday, December 8.
REPORT OF THE BUDGET.
Mr. Wilberforce, having feeo how much the o
pinions of honorable Gentlemen might vary in ' c
course of one day, had some hope of another
change, from hearing them talk of to-morr»w.
the present topic was so important, how did it lap
pen that they overlook<-d it yellerday. He expcc
ted jiiflice from all partie., and candour, though
not from the Hon. Gentleman, yet from hts bob.
friend, (Sir W. Pukeney) : he was therefore sur
prised to find him treat the fp-ech of the Chancel
lor of the Exchequer as a general defence of the
pra&ice in que&ion, which was only referred to up
on an immediate necefiity. The care of public cred
it was certainly lils firft cfitfy i it was t«r him to
watih over it with a fearful eye, and to atljuft its
balance with a careful band ; it was within l.is
knowledge that the.disclosure of this grant tt> the
Emperor would have material})' jleprcflfed credit,
he was so far from being bl,imeable fur concealing
it, that he defeived t^e thanks of the houle, who
would, doubtless, now that the qurtlion was before
them, express therr reaffenfe of it. His merit, in
deed, was the greater, becanfe lie mnli know the.
conftrudlion which oppofn-ion would put upon his
Conduct, and !iow the constitution would revive in
their Speeches only to'be again slain by them. Ihe
present appearance of public credit had, perhaps,
partly contributed to the better difpofuion late' - /
Giewn towaids Lord Malmefbury at Paris, and was
an inllance ho«v carefully it would be guarded by
Minjfters.
The hon. Mr. Yovke declared this to be one of
the most important debates he bad ever heard in
Parliament, iHough he had be?n a member of that
House of Commons which the hon. gfnrteman f<>
much delighted to call feryile ; to which fort of
__cailiag-names he would only reply, that fie no more
wanted fpir i+r-or -i«- auy -wajt r I lull
the hon. gentleman himfelf. The preient question
related only to the ways and means, which certain
ly were not to be withheld at the tnoft dangerous
period of a dangerous war, and the tnoft critical «nc
of a critical negociation. With refpeft to the po.
litical part of the dispute, he thought th« mini(l«r
praife latherthaß blame. Had it been
determined that no partjof the vote of credit ftiould
go to our allies, however necessary it might be :
He considered the deliverance of Germany to have
been effefted by this supply ; and hoped that the
question would be difcufled to morrow with all the
deliberation and impartiality due to thecircumftan
ces of the country.
Mr. Harrifon (aid, that if ministers had been
without an opportunity of applying to Parliament
either during,or immediately after the expenditure,
a part of their present arguments would have been
■ot Hock, by which some gentlemen might derive
great benefit, to fritter away the constitution, and
afiift the right hon. gentleman in the plan, which
he was so obvioafly pursuing, of rendering the house
of Commons a nullity. It was his otyeft to keep
—cwy-iTiTTTj- fy,
ture he was now making for barracks, was one in
stance of it, A new flru&ure of this fort was bow
forming on the high road Stilton. Forty acres
of laud-had boen purcbafed for it, and the work
men werefo numerous, that he thought they would
cut each other's feet. To all expences the poor
were made to contribute, whiis nothing was given
by the hon. gentleman, who had so many places and
emoluments. But upon this fubjedt he would not
now trouble the House, as he intended to bring it
before them by a motion (hortly after the holidays.
Mr. Wilberforce explained.
Mr. Curwen \Vas convinced., that of all the qwef
tions difcufled during his time in parliament, this
was the most important. It was not the {atety of
Germany, but the fafety and continuance of the
constitution, that were »ow to be cor.fideted by the
house. To take from any body their consequence
in the eyes ot the people, wa6 to deprive that body
of the means of Being ufeful. The people did not
care for five'bundled and fifty-eight men ; they re
verenced the houle, endued with all its privileges and
ufeful rights. If this encroachment upfcn them
was endu'ed, he had no hesitation to fay 1 , that he
could not respect the house. There was a talk, on
the other fide of candour expedied fjom friends:
for his part, if any friend meditated that violation
of the constitution, whieh was the uniform objefil
of all the miniftef's endeavors, no candor fhauld'Jhut
his mouth.
The master ot the rolls thought the greatest part
of the debate so little connected with the qtieftion,
he hoped his honorable friends would give 110 further
answer totho gentlemen or the other fide, who were
certainly entitled to talk as long as they pleased,
and the lpeaktr was compelled to remain in the chair
as long. The bankable member, however, re
joiced that he was not compelled to (lay ; and as
sured the house that he would not afFeraoy defence
■of his nonorable friend.
Mr. W. Smith had no hope to convince the
honorable gentleman. So far, however, was the
vote of credit from fanftioning the iflae of monej
to the emperor, that in 1704, when a similar iffiHe
was intended for the king of Prufiia, that design
had been obviously pointed by his majerty's message,
upon which the vote of credit was pafTed. The
house ought to prefer this queltion, which was a
question of Their right and place in-the couflitution,
to all others.
Lord Hawkefbury thought the real obje<& of the
debate to be obtained as soon as puflible,; and
that, if the fending of money to the emperor de
pended upon the present difenfiion, it would be bet
ter to decide the conftitutioi.al question firft; but
lince it was now desirable, for many reasons, and
-erpec.ally for those relative to the negociatiun, that
the supplies fliould Le voted, he had only to suggest
that this should be don* immediately, and to hope
that, upon the great conHitutional point involved in
the other qucttion, a dalermiiiatiuD would be feri
outly given.
Mr. Fox agreed with an old maxim now out of
/afhion, tli3t retirefi of grievances should always
pccc.edc .iujjplics.. The only qudtiou far the house
:
than an apparent one as to the real objeft of the a
fupplv. Could there be any doubt which appcai -
ance would be best for the house of Commons, th •
reprefeptatiye. of their jeahu, ancestors, tp gve f
hastily, without enquiry, or for one day to
hold th* public purfc, and in the mean pot. to n
discuss the conduit of their chief agent . Was a
member of parliament to be toU\ that, because f.
had not urged an objeflion one day, he was disabled
from offering it on another ? He afl'.ed pardon,
however, of the hatife and the country for this net
gleft, and was delirouc to compeiifrte for it by tu-
ture vigilance.
Tbat he had so often declared the conftittitiow
to be in danger, (hould now lei It of aft be objeded a
to him, when the House witnessed the « te f, to "
which that danger reached. It was his boalt that
he had often prcdifted it. All his fears were fully <>
unified this night. If, in the debate on the Sedi- p
tion Bill, he had said, that the fpjnt of the people t,
of England would be so broken by it, astoencour- ti
age the minilier in fending money to the Emperor i
without consent of Parliament, what exaggeration «
(hould he not have been accnfed of ? His friends t
hid been charged with faying frequently, that they l<
were in the la ft dyke of the conliitution. They n
fought as well as they could in evfry fortrefs; and
wasit to be expefted. that, becau!e minjfters had
conquered many, and those important cnes, the ir
defenders of them were, therefore, 10 lie down be
neath their power ? There would, indeed, soon be ti
nothing worth fighting tor. I'he dtfence of ©inif- K
ters was so difgraceful, that, if the present was a b
personal question, he could desire n» greater tri
umph than to hear it. They had not transferred
the whole vote of credit to the Emperor Would «
any man fay, that the Emperor wai at all in the r
contemplation, or view of the house, when the vote
us cTriit wiS paffcilT Here Mr. Fax dclir.ed to c
b?.ve his msjefty's message read, and Hewed, that o
when anv loan or subsidy wits iute'nded 10 a foreign 8
power, that obje& was always noticed in it. The "
other defence wai, that it was wife to-keep up pub- o
lie credit by conr«ling its real state, i. e. by de- n
ceiving these who would trust you. The hon.gen- 1
lteman (Mr. Wilberforce) saw nothing dilhonora
ble in this, and accused those who did of want of'
candour, desiring, no doubt, tjiat gentlemen on
this fide of the House should d< fend their cause with
jiilt as much sincerity, steal,-and honor, is he pppuf- J
ed the minister, when he thought some appearance l;
of oppolition necessary. The House would not
eoafound the quettion as to the proper application *
of this money, with that relative to the mode of
obtaining it. It might be proper, or not, to fend «
money to the Emperor ; but had the minister so a
far abolilhed tha conliitution as to have the right v
of doing so without the consent of Parliajpent ?. '
Against such a do&rine he would contend in that
Houle as long as it was possible by words, and
otherwifeif it was necessary, out of that house;
for he would live and die by the freedom of the
constitution of England. So far was he an y -»iL
lvii, cuuviuucu Xjy 11 111£* tfl.C
constant suspicion to which affairs would be liable,
if, without the consent of parliament, tposey might
be sent out of the kingdom. There would always
be a doubt attending ourpecumVy tranfa&ions, and
no man could urge against the fufpiicion of an enor
mous secret expenditure, the proceedings of parlia
ment, and the impossibility, which hitherto had ex
isted, that money could be disposed of without theit
knowledge.
The chancellor of the exchequer said, that he
would refrain from any further argument upon the
question this oi;ht, finding the intention of honor- >
able gentlemen to bring it fofpeedily under discus- 1
fion again.
Mr, Ballard said, that he would give his vote for
the supplies ; but, by doing so, .he did not mean to
imply on approbation of the mini Iter's conduft in
this mode of expending the public money, or to J
fay that he did not think such a mark of difappro
Nation as would prevent the pra&ice in future to
be necessary from the house. The house then di
vided.
•For the resolution I,64—Against it jS—Major
ity 106. J
011 Grangers being permitt/d to re enterthe mJ
lery, we found Mr. Pitt and Mr. Fox engaged in
a convention acrofa the table, but they each spoke
in a tone of voice so very low, that it was impossible
to hear diftin&ly any thing they said. It'' was
hawever, generally understood that Mr. Fox Sad
given notice of his intention to make feme motion
-011 Monday next.
The clerk then proceeded to read the resolution
Mr. Bryan Edwards objected to the tax upon
iugar. He said, it was not his intention to oppose
in the fm all eft degree the supplies for the public
lervtce. He conceived that unanimity was particu
larly necessary at the present crisis, not only to give' (
dignity to the proceedings of parliament, but also
tfe lupport the honor and eharafter of the country
and to gue due effeft to the negotiation, in which '
we were at this time engaged. Bin he ceuld not
help calling the attention of the house to the pro i
posed tax upon sugar, which ,he could not view ss
a measure either judicious or politic. If we looked
to the situation of our Weft India possessions, wc
ihould find that the late dreadful infurredtion in
Jamaica had produced a loss to that iflar.d of
500,©001. that Barbados, from the cffcumftances
.of the war had b<jen driven to an expense of 000,000)
and that the islands of St. Vincents and Grenada
had been so ravaged and dillreffed by the hoftilitiea
which had been earned on in them, that they were
.nrapaWe of repairing rhe losses they had faftained.
Our Weft India poffeflians being so conditioned, it
could not reasonably be imagined that their pro
duce was a fair objed of taxation. Jf the turden '
o the proposed tax was intended to fall upon the
planter, the measure was «njuft ; and, if it was in
tended to fall upon the conftimer, it became burthen
some and opprrfiiv\ His ideas were, that, isa tax
mult be levied upon this commodity, it (hould at 1
leal, be considerably otherwife it wo 'u!d
not fail to prove highly injurious to the planters, or
, Whom he feared the burden uuft fall. Another
. consideration was, the duty upon Eaft-Indi? fogar
was not upon the lame footing as that of the V e - (
, Indies, the duty being in a far less proportion.
; Fhftead, therefoie, of laving an additional ha f crown
■ a hundred upon both sugars, he thought the: duty
. on the Weft-India produce should be less, and that
: upon the East-India more, in oroer to draw a pro
portion agreeably to the exilting taxes upon t 10 e
. comrpadiiies. These ideas had anfen in his mind,
, not from any principle of opposition to the|m.nliter, £
, but from the purest of motives, and he wished to 1
: submit them to the superior judgment of tbechan- ,
I cellor of the exchequer. f
Mr. Pitt agreed with the honorable gentleman,
that every practicable indulgence should be « xte j" d " .
. ed tu the planters; but he had not the lmalleft .
doubt that the tax would ultimately be paid by the 1
consumer. As to the proportion which the honor
able gentleman wiftwd to he thought kaj
ready fufficiendy in favor ofjhe Weil-India pro>fi- _
etor, the duty upon tlie. produce of this land being
only 13s. per cwt. while that upon the Ealt-India
produce was 37!. 83. per cent, ail valorum. the .
tax of half a crown a h.undred upon each, lie th,ere
thoug-ht, was by no means an uureafonable propo
fltioH D ; although he was free to conWs, that the c
ft».tement of tlue honorable gentleman, icfpeCtiug
the situation of the Weft-India Islands, fhoutd have
futee weight with the house, iu tlje future difauf
fions upon the fubje&.
Sir Wtiliaifi Young was also of that tlie
statement of Mr. Bryan Edwards was entitled to £
much attention. _ j
Colonel Harcourt did not think that the Atua
: tion of the Weft-Indies was so bad, but that there
was a fair profpe£t of the;njuries they ha.' iuftained
being amply repaired by our recent acquifiuons in
•that quaiter. i
Mr. Pitt and Mr. Thornion said a few words f
each 5 after .which the resolution was put, and car
ried. S
On the resolution refpe£ting the drawback upon j
1 coffee being read, Mr. Bryan Edwards made a few
observations on the nccelfity of encouraging the i
1 giowth and exportation of it ; and, after some rs
■ marks from Mr. Pitt and Mr. Shwell, this and the
other resolutions were put and carried, and the '
minister obtained luave to bring in bills purluant to
. them. S
The house adjourned at jo o'clock till to-morrow. t
[ Wanted, ,
\ A NURSE, t« attend a"sick Lady, a few miles from j
ii this city :—apsrfon well recommended, will be im
mediately employed, and liberally rewarded. For in for- j
■ mation enquire of the Editor of this Paper.
: February 24
1 " * A Young (icntleman, ,
WIJO can come well recommended by a refpe<slable ,
1 merchant of this city, would be willing to engagg either
> as a CLERK in an accempting-houl'e, public office, or ,
t wholefaleftore. A line addrefled to A. B. and left with
? tjie Printer of tjiis Paper, will ha duly attended to.
February 43 It -
\ 7 College-Hall,
RtADiKos and Recitations,
e. . .
Moralj Critical, and Entertaining.
& ■ hhb, - |
At 7 o'clock, will be delivered,
' first part
Aurtrony'n Funeral Oiation, Shakespeare. 1
S /anga't Triumph o\er Alonzo, Young,
d SECOND PART
OJe on St Cac ilia's Day, Pope.
Hamlei's.lolilocujy onh'u Mothei's ' 1
l " ShaMp-are. '
.- Ode to Madoefs, p, tiiofe.
I THIRD tAKf . ,
Hamlet'sSoliloquv on Death, Shakespeare.
•,Od(! on the Paffiont, Collins. 1
e Alexander's teall Diyd«i.
e Ticket* to be had of Mr. Poulfpn, ju*. at the JLibrary;
atmr. M'Elwee's lorjting-glafs-ftpre, No. 70, b. Fourth
- flreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookieller, Market-street
Halfi a dollar each.
r 'Wanted,'- r^~
o Penujfylxank Bank Shares,
II For which Gajh, or approved Notes at 60 days, will
o -be given, at the option of the Seller.
> February Apply at this offiy. (
° New Theatre.
TflfS EKENINgT February 24,
Will be prcfented, a Comedy, called 1
!- Every one has his faiiic,
11 i-ord Norland, Mr . W arren
c sir RobertJlamaje, Mr. Wiaaell
e yi T - S ° lasf Mr. Morris
Mr. Harmony, Mr. Ba.e.
'Pt ; rwm, M[ Cloper
d Pbc Mr. Moriton
n • Hammond, Mr Warrel i ( Wl .
;° J rlc '- Mr. Warrell
I j ' , • M.f.L'Edraoge
Lady Eleanor Irwin, M)s . Mer
B !"/ M "' f""'"
e M.fsSpn.iler, M«. L'Eftrange
c Woobura, Mrs. Morris
'< /» 1 ~To which will be added, ' ,
e (For the ad time in this Theatre,-and with the original. '
0 Overture and trench Mulic, composed by Monfr, Roch . .
• . ' """ performed in America) 1
h A Grand, Serious, PANTOiMI ViE BALLET, called 1
it. t he Death of Capt, Cook • i
in Coveni-Garden Theatre, London, undt, ,
3 U r «° n 0t ' V,r - Bt RNV ' awards o» ix y 1 H U V "
d rir llf * T '' Wlth umverfal applause.] 1
With New Scenery, Machinery, Drejfcs and D U o- 1
n r, r ~ . rations.
t ,
[ Mdlrs. Byrne
j iFranci*
* XhePtmcipalChataaer.by^
j Morcton 1
, C I Fox
L . , .1 Warrell
it t j• _ Mrs.Byrne. t
►' "»**%D- 1
n Indian Women,—Mrs Har v „ ilrfy' "• Liv « nc y. *<:• I
. or, Miss Melbourne! m 2 L'Krt Mercht'er, Mrs. Doit- ,
lt Enteriiinmcnti. o# foarujia with (
1 «-«-:
' r ; a Dollar, Md Fit Seyen Ei S h ' hs
oa3ette^^irdteti^tates,
AND
Philadelphia Daily Advertijer.
PHILADELPHIA, February 14 .
STOCKS.
Six - - .... jjry
Three per Cent. .
perCent. - -- -- -- --
per Cent. ..... ...
Deferred Six percent. .... jjy
BANK United States, ... Uperet
Psnnfylvania, - - - . lS do _
»" North \mierica, .... 45 do. \
InfuraßCe Cump. N. A. (hares, - 30 per ct
f ennfylv. 3 per w ■
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, par
at 60 days, f 62 i-»
at 90 days, J7 , mJ
Amfterdaro, 60 days, per guilder.
9<= days, 4i
AN ODE
On the Birth-Day of hia Excellenty SEuRGE WASH
ING'tOK, Prefiuent of the United States of America
Ncju Jerfcy, 13d of February, 1797
WHAT mean those drains, my fancy f?ems to hrar }
Wafted so fu'eetly thiough the mideight air
Sure 'tis the gentle Spirits of the Vajc,
Or Patriot Heross who each danger brav'd,
And died exulting in their country fav'd,
That fill with cxtacy the dying gale.
They ceme to hail the bright propitious m m
.Oji wjiiph thejr great compatriot was born, .
And usher in the white-wing*d hours :
Hark ! how thty itring the Lyre to theme* fsbl r.t,
Recount-the deeds of heroe* in each clime,
And give the palm to our,.
See (freaks «f fapphi;*- gild the (jricnt Jky,
And flying clouds announce fame power :s nigh.
To give an.energy t" joys (incorc. k ■ - tiS—Z-
Yes, th'ftt heavenly maid, fairOnatitubb, (
With all the Virtues a» hej bright prelude,-
Descending front yon lucid as ure sphere.
she topes, Uhe Sons of Freedom to inspire,
To raise their ardent gratulations higher,
And join thefeftive tributary fang:
She bringsriie Mules from their native hill#,
Aonian groves, and ever-flowing rilis,
Each delicate emotion so prolong.
Let Nymphs and Shepherds jain the mazy dance
Let Mirth illume the hours as..they advance,
And languid Age forget its crutch and car?:
Let pain be footh'd, and grief aiTume a finite—
This natal day has magic to beguile,
Or wipe from Sorrow's eye, ,t£ie falling tear.
The thought of Washington, injsvery mind
Mud raise Ideas grateful as refi .'d,
That pomp of language never yet expreft ;
That name rever'd, to LIBERTY fodeur,
Mull prompt the fervji.t, unaife jl td prayer,
Ar.ii fvc««t ejpic&ve Silence jniufe th? rcll.
COMMUNICATIONS. >
Bruce travelled to explore the fo»rce of the
V - ;? h?'L fc- 'B"''' y .iui.'"i '*♦— fear*
bectTan intereli':i ; o! j-bt»t what ca take f<?
many French philofephers up and Aoipn out Wcjltrn
ritttrt and creeks, is an extrayidinarv thirg !—Liks
ruttic beauties, far removed from the touch of de
vices, those dillant fifties havcdoybtlefs many secret
charms, unknown t<« the dull Americans who inha
bit, out cities and fill our philosophical f./cietivs.
Pechsps it might do as well if thel'e ruflic
which have such aftonjfhing attractions for foreign
amateurs wt« kept more out of fight—male co
quetry hurls their (itnplicity—and the mere celebri
ty which thty Bi-y gain by the learned sdiriratiop
of tbefc travellers may perhaps be but a fmallconj.
penfation to tJrr'irparents f«r the lofg of reputation
which theie vifi'9 if often repeated might produce.
If t-hefe philosophers ate the only wen whom the
various Propaganda Societies in Europe can leffd
us, we think we have many milfionaries rather bet
ter qualify'd for the jiurpofes of fettling a new
countiy y.,h J are and r.ot philo
sophers.
,T7
A paragraphia in the Aurora—the author no
doubt of the et ican Annual Regijler—affefls t®
wonder at the lilence «f thdfr who are censured in
that woik, and takes it as an evidence of guilt. A
better account, however, can be given of this fi
lcnce. It proceeds (;om a perfe£l indifference to
the cenftye conveyed in that book. Ihe author of
it is generally known, and his chara&er is such, as
to tender those whom he attacks quite unconcerned
about any mifchief he may attempt. The book, in
question,- is the yerieft catch-penny that ever wa?
published. It is the mere jtitchen tittle-(attle of
jacobinifip. Neither th»fe who are blamed nor those
who are praised, if not of the mesneft understand
ing or the grofltft taste, can feel any excitement,
except that of disgust, at any thing it contains.
The paragraph in the Aurora is a competent speci
men of the Hile and charafter of the whole peifoi
mance. The author wrote it, no doaht, to endea
vour to force his work into notice ; but he will fill
the less, and not the «ere ps his -book, by giving
the public this sample of his talents. His bed me
thod wiH be to get people to purchase without ever
feeing a sentence he has produced,
"ke democrats call the attachment of the citi
zens to their " beloved fcll6w eitizen" i3platry,
This is ttrange talk for men who " adore the peo
ple." Is their voice llupid idolatry ? Yes or no,
is equally a plea as guilty for the democrats. Ei
ther they quarrel with ths people for their appro
ving voice, or fay no to the faft and quarrel witli
the ttuth. A ttranger to America, and to both
parties, would think the nation the (tupidell and ba
sest upon the earth, if he read and judged only fro* l
tht jacobin gazettes. Yet this is the glorious con
clusion our " patriots" " the adorers of the pfo
ple" take such unwearied pains to eftaMifh. ' 0
lower the national chaiaCler, and the national fpint
too, to make Americans think thcmfel* 6B
and to peifuade the French to believe that we are
cowards and traitors, are the " patriotic" talks ai
tinned by their severe talk mailers to the democi»:»
(or American mongrels) aid their gazettes.Is it-true as lately suggested in the Aurora, that pertJy ol
the French have certain faithful and loyal fubje&s the cons.
in Baltimore whom they will not rob ? A precious ing Orvt
diftinftion at 'h' s period of highway purse taking my abili
regeneration, of privateering fraternity, of right? 1 reqi
of man upon the high seas ! Is it also true that our zen» of
insurance offi es are to make proper diftinftinn be- ments ft
tween the Barneyites who put on uniform and put off entertaii
the virtues and duties of eitizenfhip at pleasure ; reciproc
and the old charter patriots whose principles were which tl
dyed in the grain, (true blue) to® deeply for all
the wine at Oellers's Robefpierrian feaft to wash Umt<
out ? Or is it the cafe that members of Congress
owe paramount duties to Fiance, the United States
claiming only such as are subordinate ? There is Diei
surely no harm in asking questions, and the Aurora Gilbei
of the 16th contains a paragraph refpe&ing the dav sol
name of a Mr. Buchanan which suggests a great difcourf
many. Curiosity had read the paragraph forty before ;
times, and every time fays mum. denomi
vened o
At a meeting held in the town of Sunbuiy, eon- chapter
filling of the Judge? of the Court of Common faying 1
Pleas, the Grand Jury, and a refpeftable number die in t
of Citizens of the county of Northumberland in Spirit,
-the State of Pennsylvania, to take into confidera- their w
tion the propriety ofaddreffing the President of the The
United States, expressive of the gratitude and en- of the
tire approbation of this County for his meritorious pnblifh
services during the revolutionary war, and also du- Prir
ring his administration of the general government.
General William Wilson was ijnanimoufly ap- The ri
pointed Chairman, and '« '■
Chnrles Hall, Secretary— An
The fallowing resolutions were entered into: from g
Resolved, That 'a committee confiding of Wil- eharaf
liam Wilson, Thomas Strawbridge, and John vgrnm
Macpherfon, Esquires, the associate Judges now in thei
present, together with Daniel Smith, and (Charles States
Hall, Efqrs, be authorized and requested in the firm si
name of the people of this county to prepare a res- home
peftful Address to the Piefident of the United my co
States, expressive of the gratitude entertained by nndev
— the people 6l this county for the services of the tion t<
President, both in our late glorious struggle for and ei
liberty and independence, as also of tie most per- otheri
feet approbation entertained by the laid county, foften
for his wife, firm, and patriotic adqiiniftration of ever f
the general government. _ to be
Resolved, That the said *ddrefi. together with count
a copy of these proceedings be transmitted by the zens
above committee, to the President, and that Charles I
Hall be requelted to present the fame on his arrival thanli
in Philadelphia.
CHARLES HALL, S«c'ry, Tl
Sunbury, Jan. 27, 1797* perfo
fpefit
To the President of the United States. c es o
Sir, and 1
Next to the pleasure which a,r,ife« the con- t ; va t :
fcioufnefs of doing* good, is that which flows from j rea ] j
jhe justly merited applause of mankind. Next to j p; ec{
tlji inexhauftable delight and felf-gratulation which
you mud feel from the retrofpedt of a life devoted
jo the service of your country —are the grateful ac T c '
knowledgments of that country, for services Hn
paralleled in the page of hiftoiy, for the exercise '
of v.irtnes urrexnmpVd in rhe annals -mankind
Permit us therefore, Sir, in the name of the
people of this county, and in common with our fel-
law citizens throug'wut the Uiiion, to embrace,
perhaps the last opportunity we (hall have of pub
licly teftifying to you, the deep and grateful fenle
we entertain, of that profound wifdonj ,in council, ® 5
fcnd those eminent exertions in the field, vvhich,aided
by the bravery and virtue of Americans led your
Country vidtoriousthroanarduous andbloody war,to
libei tv and independence. F' )r y (, ur difwterelted
patriotism in the administration of tine general go- °
veVnment —for your perseverance in the system of •
neutrality, feeured by firm and conciliatory nea
fuies, preserving our own dignity, and doing jus
tice to ail nations ; foryour pronaptnefs in fuppref- P u
ling domeflic infurre£tions-—for your firmnefs in uu
defeating ttie exertions of foreign influence —for
your steady adherence to the principles of the con- ''
dilution ; and, lastly, sot the ineltimable legacy you
» have left us, in your late paternal address to the
people of :he United States.
A legacy so replete with wiHom and found po
licy as to merit not only a diltingu'iihed place in °'
the archives of-the relpe&ive dates, but alio to be
engraven on tfte.hearts and mindsbl every Ameii
can, affcftionately to be remembered, and grate- " u
fully to be transmitted by them to potlerity as their '
political cre'ed ; as thelafl gift of him, to whom,
under God, we are principally indebted for our
greatest poluical blessings.
Peimit us also, Sir, to accompany you with our 1,2
best and most ardent wifbee, in your contemplated J 1
retirement ; msy the choicest blessings of domeflic
ease and bliss pervade the evening of your days
May you enjoy from the serene and peaceful walks
of private life, the glorious profpeft of a free and
enlightened Country progrelfing with rapid ftridss
to the confirmation of every public and private vir
tue, a country which by your ?ifift?tice already
holds a diftinguiihed-rank among the nation* of the
World.
William Wilson
John Macpherfpp
Thomas Strawbridge
X)aniel Smith )
Charles Hafl v
Sunbuty, January sßth, 1
To which the President returned the following n
Jinf<wtr. v
To William Wilson, John Macpherfon, Thomas '
Strawbridge, Daniel Smith, and Charles Hall,. '
Esquires. '
Gentlemen,
I have received with much pleasure the address
which you transmitted me on behalt of a refpefla
ble meeting of the Citizens of Northumberland
Causty.—
in retiring from public to private life, my high
eft gratification will be to carry with me testimonies
of the approbation of my condu£l by my fellow-citi
zens, and the unequivocal manner in which you have
manifefted this approbation, deserves my particular
thinks. As my constant exertions have been in
tended sor 1 the advancement of the peace and prof
-1
pertiy of my Country, nothing can deprive me of affignec
the consolation which the reflection affords of hav- visited I
ing served my Country faithfully and to the best of them in
my abilities j them a
I request you, Gentlemen, to present to the Citi- camp ti
zens of Northumberland my grateful acknosvlc-Tg- the W!
ments for the favorable opinion they are pleased to the pur
' entertain of me ; and to afftire them of my hearty these b;
reciprocation .of the doqjeftic ease and happiusfs pon the
which they wi(h me in my intended retirement. dians b 1
Go. WASHINGTON. and fle (
United States, Feb. zzd, take in
i I snd ihA
; _ Fnandai
1 Died, on Monday lait, at Cranberry, the Rev. fortutia
1 Gilbert Tbnnent Snowdsn ; and on Wednef- news ai
: dav following was delivered an excellent funetal Cheroli
: discourse, bv the Doft. Samuel S. Smith, declare
r before a refp»ftahlc number of the clergy of varioua Federa
denominations, and a very crowded aftembly, con- In o
vened on that affefting occafioo, Revelation, 14th tial act
- chapter, ijverfe: " 1 heard a voice from Heaven, names
[i laying unto me—Write, bletfed are the dead, \» l io more t
r die in the Lord, from henceforth ; yea, faith the Indian
n Spirit, that they may reft from their labours, and murdei
.- their wo'rks do follow them.''
e The session of the church have applied for a copy
1- of «be discourse, and it is hoped that it will bs Estrai
is ptibltfhed in a (hort time. n
1- Princeton, Feb. 23d, 1797. "
r> broke
)'■ The reply of the Vice-President of the United State*, Wrigl
to the address of the Senate, Peb. Zsd, 1797* entire!
An address so refpeftful and *as this the pr
from gentlemen of such experience and ettabliftied had ft
il- charafter in public affairs, high in the J;o- The I
in vgrnment of their cquntiy, and great confideratiqn vered
W in their feyeral dates, as the Senators of the United them
es States, will do Rie great honor, and afford me a Mr.
be firm fupportj wherever it (hall be known, both at on of
:f- home and abroad. Their generous approbation of
ed my conduft in general, and liberal tellimony to the
by tindeviating impartiality of it, in my peculiar rela
he tion to their body, a character, which in every fcenc
"or and employment of life I should wifti above all
er- others to cultivate ami merit ; has a tendency to
ty, foften asperities and conciliate animofiiies, where- Extr;
of ever such may unhappdy t xift san effeft at all tunes Sa
to be desired, and in the present fituaupn of our "
ith country, ardently to be promoted by all good citi- Hop!
L.he zens- a '' J
•Its I pray the Senate to ?ccrpt of my sincere deda
va! thanks. JOHN ADAMS. amor
,Fr?n
The Death of Capt. Cook, the new Pantomime such
performed last Evening at the New Theatre, is a difpz
fpe6lacle eminently Calcßl.'vted topleafe. -r *be i);in the t
ces of tlie Natives—The Novelty of the DtefTes— H°f
and the beauty of the Scenery, are irrefiftably cap- gree
on- tivating—and the fatal catastrophe, founded on the' span
■om j rea ] forms a most interelling conclusion to the to re
, ta j piece. S er
>ted The rfddrefs fthe Memh sos the Pennsylvania So• ag q
3C ciety of the Cincinnati—.and of the Members be- <c
Hn _ /onging to the other Stale Societies of the dnc'fnna• mor
ti, at present in Philadelphia. f,A
l To GEORQfi WASHINGTON,, uvo
( u e Prjident of the United States.
•fel- SlR '
ace UPON this auspicious day—and in contempla
tion of an approaching public event, the moll af
enle which can eyer oivur to us, either a> Men,
nc j] as Citizens, or as your former Fell >w Soldiers, wc
ided d'lire to congratulate, and address you. p or
ur As Men we offer to you the homage of » pure
j r t0 and htirtfelt affeQion—As Citizens we exprelstn
cited you the gratitude, which refuhs from a jufl sense
j <rf) _ -the highest obligations—And as Fellow Soldiers (^a
we declare the refpeftful and inviolable attachment )n
„ ea . which we fee Ito a beloved and venerated Chief.
3 • jf The moment, in which America is to lose the un|
h rcf- public services of her most illuftuous Citizen,
•fs in would indeed bs iqconfolable, did not the reviuw
f or of his wife, firro, and virtuous administration, as t)
, co „. Chief ,Mag.iftrate, present a fertes of conduct, which
„ you it will be the pride and happineft of his successors q £
3 the (ovulate and attain. ecl
Wit.li this consolatory rsfleftion, we nfiturally
ce in r°'» r digi ified retirement from aTfi.ce, our coun
to be try will exhibit io the world the rare and intereft
mei i ing fpeiSacle that official station and authority are j n
not requisite to obtain and 10 ccntinue the utraoft t j j '
""their diftinftio.n among mankind, or to command the
«hom highest degree of their admiratipn and applause. 0[
our To that gracious Projudence, whose goodness has j- (
heretofore prefcrvcd y,ou a prime Agent of human
h our happiness, we prefer our fervent fupplicatious for Q |
plated your present and future felicity.' y ;
1 me flic S 'g ned by order, in
s . and an behalf of the Society. r
walks THOMAS MIFFLIN. o ,
;e and February 22d, 1797, v
ftridss
alevir . PRESIDENT'S ANSWER, J
already To the Members of the Pennsylvania Soei/ty of the
tof the Cincinnati ; and the Members of the ether Staff a
Societies of the Cincinnati, et present in Philadtl- (
phia.
, Gentlemen,
'idge YOUR congratulations and the expressions of
your attachment and approbation of my public ser
vices, are received with gratitude, and reciproca-
ted with sincerity.
Endeared to me by every qonfideiation ps public (
1 llowing and piivate worth, I shall carry into that .retirement (
which you arf pleased to mention in terms so flat- ■
Photons ,i:r '"K> invariable affe&ion and esteem towards
s Hall, Comrades of my military career ; and
my best prayers will be offered for their present and
future happiness.
address G.WASHINGTON. ;
■efpefla United States, February 22d, 1797.
iberland '■■»* .
WINCHESTER, (Virg.) February 17.
ly high From Knoxville, January 30.
Umonies We are sorry to inform the public, that diflurb
low-citi- ances of a very feiious nature prevail in the upper
you have Cherokees, occasioned by the murder of three
articular Cherokee Indians, viz. the Red Bird, Will, a
been in- lame man, and another whose name we could not
nd ptof- learn. These Indians were hunting on the lands
r affijTned to them by the Uniietl Slates, and were D'j.te 1
visited by four white men. The Red Bird received peror.
: them in a matt cordial and friendly manner, offered j til
them a share of his provilions and a (heifer in his ; taarks o
• camp till they could build one for themielves, as ■ • to
. I the Whites informed them they were come out for i was not
i the purpose of hunting ;in return of this kioduefs neither
these barbatians murdered them in cold bloqd. U- *oy ortu
i pon the receipt of this news in the natijn the [n-j this cit)
dians burnt the houfts of their deceased . rethien | of the j
and flew to vms. Young Watts, swore he would j private
take tnfljnt
and influence of Captain Richard Spaiks, the com- : mature.
mandant of the Federal troops in this Hate, who j By "
, fortuhatelv happened to be at Telljco vyher. the | that the
news arrjved, and by the aid of some presents, th.e lor 1
1 Cherufcees were for that time pacified, and they the war
, declare that "they will wait patiently and fee if the
j Federal, Government will afford them any relief- f c '!r~T'
In our next we hope to give a more cirrumftan- oufhe.s
i tial account of tfm tranfaSior., together wiih the cafe thi
, names of the perpttrators, which is likely <?'nce ent to o
3 rr.ore to involve the frontiers in the horrors of an "en tn
e Indian war—We could not learn the exatft time the The
d murder was committed. ta 'y ne
_ reprele
y NtW-yORK, February 21. Anion;
;p Extraft of a letter dated 17th inft. from a gentle- rob.w
man in Albany, to hii frind in this city. A n
" Yeftcrday morning about four o'clock, a fire ana G
broke out in Court-tlreet, in the hoiife of Mr. port* t
j\ Wright, (adjoining Wendel's Hotel) which was are pr
entirely consumed, with the one on the other lide, Genoa
is the property of a Mr. Hcyer, and the third hoiife in cafe
d had fume part torn down and was much damaged, troops
>. The Hotel being a brick building, and the roof co- Engla
>n vered with hew, fuffered but little injury. Five of trade:
id the members of the Legislature who boarded with of wa
a Mr. Wright 101 l part of their cloaths ; 00 menti- peace,
at on of any lives being loft. p" ace'
t' Py l^ llß day' s Mails.
11c "" I
all BOSTON, February 17. j j
to Unrxpcdid Imptrlant Intelligence. j
re- Extra6t of a letter from Mr. Carlton, Editor of the j Bj'ipi
ici Salem Gazette, dated at Salem, ycllerday.
,ur "By this port from the Cape of Good 1
iti- Hope, we have certain information, that Tippoo <f
Saib has embodied a lprge army in arrd has |( k
;re declared War againlt England. He has received (<
among his troops 500 Officers, sent out by the
French Direflory—and has already commenced | it P"
me juch alarming movements, as made it nectffary to | (< a ,,
sa dispatch two Packets to England wiih advices ef I
an the event :On their flopping at the Cape of Good j ((
s FJope, on their way, and comnuinicaiiiig this difa- j 1
ap. greeable intelligence, all the troops that could be J M
the" spared (about 4,000) were immediately embarked I abovi
the to reiiiforce the Briiifh who were in the utmost dan- J bly c
ger of fuffcring by these sudden hsllilities. They |ed so
were commanded by Gen. Craig, whs is ftteceeded 1 he m
S ,"' as Governor of the Cape, by Gen Dundas. I have
: " I flrall be more particular in my Gazette to- I his p
,na " morrow, (t hip day) but depertd on the aboye as jA ft
fads. My original Ship News will make about I ken
two columns— many Boston vessels are mentioned.'' I voya
Yotir's, &c. ift c
, 1 befo
p' s " fJEW-YORK, February 23. 1 tiojj
a '" Tranjlatrd for the Daily I mit.
len > HAGUE, December 1. J cxpi
> wc The difcuffidns on the plan of a new constitution 1 Brii
for this republic, have laded in the Batayian Nati- I
P urc onal Assembly, Until ihe 281 I) November. Never! „
' 8 perhaps wei opinions so decidedly we may even fay I
k. so equall; •* vided. Nobody it is true, maintains I
cre that it is above eriticifm, or that ii does not require 1
me "' fume material alterations in fever?,! tefpc&s,— lych I
cfpecialiy ? as an ,a (Terribly of seven perfon3 which I
. ! ' le under the name of Council of Sttjte would not on- I
,Z : CH ' ly enjoy executive but with refpe£t to the promul- I
[v "t w gation tfnd execution of the laws would be veiled
rl, . : ' s with prohibitory powers —powers of so tpuch the I
vlucti g rea ( er magnitude, as ah ho' the authority of the j ggoj o
effors Q ounc ;i , f State would not exceed that of th« Ex- ' °
ecutive Direfiory of France, yet the Legiflaiiye I ~
body is not to have a permanent session, and would be I
lance re p, e fent.ed during its two vacations by a fmail de- j
coun- p Ulat ion from the House of Ancients. With res- t0
cre pest to the second point in debate, viz that refpeft- cor
31 c ing the unity and indivisibility of the Republic—
-1 1, the modifications of the plan by the edqbhdtrnent
0 of. JJrpirtwnt Atlm'tnijifal'iont met will, ai many -jX
e ' oppofers as advocates,'by reafan of the doablt dif- t i u
"fs has g cv rt,y of making the deb:s cf some of the states ar<
111 man eo mmon to all—and of afcertajning the true ratio at
"•* ■' of of the relaiive means of each province (each ha-
ving different,refoitrces and means of fubfitfing their r
inhabitants) to bear their equal proportion of the j
taxes and imoofts. The 20th was finally up- !
IN.
I on to decide esder the prefidence of Citizen Ybrand 1 t
Van HamelfvaM. This difiicult and important j £
qaeftion, on which a Cumber of citizens of differ- ! ve
ent towns had petitioned in favor of an absolute uni i
°f ty ; this step-has procured them the gratification of jar
* tat/ an honorable mention w;t.hoijt approving the tenor of 1' a
hilaiel- t heir addreffrs j Ol
Some - members proposed to make the plan the
b'fis">f the deliberations, and to appoint a commif
fion whicli within four weeks should bring ia a re- «
he fer- p ort op t^e mean , 0 f effefting the absolute unity
ipreca- refpeft to the general finances and taxes. But
this conciliatory proposition not being adopted as-
P" ter fe(iic disorder either in the aflembly itfelf or in
re pent ogHeries, the nominal appeal decided by a ma
° 1 jority of 66 to 52 votes, " that the proposed plan
owat s con ft|tution should form the bafu of the nation- J
1 ' an< ' al assembly's deliberations."
ent and letter from Vienna of Nov. 2.6. mentions that
_ a nobleman had arrived from Italy, with the news t
of the murderous battles, of which wc have had f
the details :—Oil account of the retreat of Alviri- *
' zy, the Emperor had determined to fend him a rein- s
17. forctnicnt of i2,OQOmen.
30- 1
diflurb- EMPRESS OF RUSSIA. !
e upper Under the Hamburgh head ot the 3d Dec. is 1
f three the following—" By an express arrived this morn-
Will, a ing from Riga, we have received the account, that (
mid not her Imperial Majesty, Catherine 11. died on the
te lands 17th November ; and that his Highuefs Grand
J /■
/ y
e Duke Paul Petrowiich, has been proclain-.ea Em-;
d peror. , .
ij j In the paper of the 6th, are the following re
j ; marks on the above intelligence—" The rnefk tiger
9 ; Lid to have arrived on Friday, express from Ri'' 3 »
r | Was not on his way to London. Since that lime
s neither the Ruffian Charge d'Affair? has.received
«(iy official news—nor any Courier passed thro
!. . this city to Loqdou. No ot ' uie e aui
11 of the Empress was received at Berlin, tko' iome
J ! piivate letters received at Konint;(berg make men
n j tion of it. It is therefore prpbable that this is pre
l- j mature.''
0 | By letters from Prefburg of Nov. 22, it 3ppe ar »
,e i that the Diet at Prtfburg, have granted to the Em
; peror the following supplies for the prosecuting ot
y ! the war : 50,000 Hungarians, exclusive of thofc;
te requisite to complete the regiments already in the
field—2©,ooo oxen—JO,poo horfes—2,4oo,oo9
i. buthels of grain—3,760,000 do. oats. And ia
ie cafe the numbers at present granted, are not fßfiicj
:e ent to obtairi an honorable peace, a general railing
ln "en masse," will be determined on.
The Auflrian official account of the battles in I
taly nearly agree with the French, but the former
represent the IqTs on each fid.e as nearly equal——
Among the priioners taken by Davidovich at Ri
le. volo, were two Freijch generals, Florella and Valete.
A new convention between the trench republic
r e and Genoa exckides the English from the; Genoese
[ r . ports during the war, and the vessels of the latter
, as are prohibited to carry provisions to the British.
le, Genoa is to protest her own forts and harboprs, but
ife in cafe of neceffiiy she is to be aided by french
■d. troops- If Genoa shall be involved in a war with
• 0 . England, France will undertake to protea her
of trade and navigation, and will assist her with ships ,
ith of vyar and intercede for her in negociations far
iti- peace. Genoa pays to France 2 millions of livref
in advances, and a million to he refunded after
peace.
From the Fedbraj. Gazetts.
Messrs. Yundt & Brown,
the By ipferting what follows, you will oblige afubfcrij
ber.
[ Frtm the Aurora"]
l| 00 I 't Some time ago Mr. A V——, of Balti
,3 j " more, became obnoxious to the British. 1 hey
V f " searched every veflel from Baltimore for his pro
-s'j " perty, and the matter came at length to be so well
1 44 known, that no ship would luffer him to put an
to f " article en board. The French are npw playing
oid I " l^'s S ams » ' n f urers w '" f®
Ufa I " l^'3 P°' nt ' llto l ' ic ' r "lc«lation».f
Ibe j Mr. A V ,<f Baltimore, dfclayej the
ked I above to be a malevolent groundless a/Tertion, proba r
dan- 1 bly originating from a well known and justly defpif
'hey Jed four;e. If he is " obnoxious" to the Br>ti(Ji,
fded j he must be so £0 the French, hecaufe both nations
j have detained, abjudicated and contiemned Lpie of
to- I his property, like that of many of his fellow citizens.
s as j A ship of his, however, when arrived in a port ta
beut j ken possession of by .the Britifb, during that veffeij
ed. ,? I voyage, was justly and liberally treated by a Brit
c. J ift commander 111 another cafe, which was never
1 before a vice admiralty court, as complete fatisfac-
I tiojj was given as the nature of the cafe would ad-
J mit. Similar redress is, upon fufficient grounds,,
I 1 xpefted in a few other inffancet, both frots thj
ution I British aad French government*.
Nati PHILOPATROS.
\ T ever I
'"J* Y S j PORT OF PHILADEL PHI A,
-fuel ARRIVED {
,1 Brig Pomona, King, Ajjvfterdam 7^
ton 1 American, Shallcrofs, Antigua 'ji
' j Schooner Fame, Pendleton, Richmond O
0 ■* CLEARED
J Brig Lovely Lass, Domincjc, Trinidad
"r Governor Biook, M'Cutchen, HavannaU
i, e Sloop Sally, Watts, St. Thomas
8 E.X" }
! " Public Notice is hereby given,
j cyji.-vT I have applied to the Judgei of the Supreme
all ae- j J Court of this State, to supply the defeift in my title
:h ref
to » 10l of ground situate on the Weft fide of Fourth-flreet,
:fpe£i- containing in br#adth 10 feet and in length 5 6 feet, bound,
blJ c ed northward and wreftward by ground el the fubfcribcr.
1 ment Southward by ground of Edward Shippen, and saftward
' by Fourth-street ; oecalioned by the loss of a deed from
many timothy Harrington, John Lewis and James Walt»n, fcy
>le dif- their attorney Robert Mollyneux. All perf«ns concerned
: states are required to appear before the Justices of the said Court
e ratio at the City Hall in the city ot Phiadclphia, on the third
l 1 _ Monday in M irch next, to make their answer to the bill
, • of the subscriber, filed in the office of Edward Burd,
g tnetr p ro thonotary of laid court. February 24 §3w
of the ———
ced up. 1 Mr. Ricketts
iTbrand < ESPECTFcII.LY informs his Patrons and the Ladies
portant JLV and Gentlemen of Philadelphia, th«t on Saturday c
differ- ! vening there will be
lute uni \ A Grand Display of Horsemanship,
Stion of ! and ether ma»ily feats of activity. Being ;>ofitively the
tenor of last night but one at the PANTHEON, as Mr. Ricketts's
I engagements at New-York require his attendance there.
| The parcicularsof the Performance, will be announced
ilan the in the bills and advertisements of the day,
:ommif The Door to open at 5 and the performances to
in a re- commence at a quarter after 6 o'clock.
Will be fold,
ptcd as- On MQndajr, the ift of March,
If or in At the Merchants' Coffce-Heufe,
y a ma _ At 12 o'clock, noon,
fed plan A Lot, or Piece of Ground,
: nation- /""lontaihinc i% acres and roo perches, situate near the
V>l Slue Ball Tavern, on the Paffyunk road four mile*
, from the city of Philadelphia. This Lot commands a
or.s tnat v ; evvo f the riversDclawars and Schuylkill, is nearly inclof
he news t( j W ith a good cedar post and rail fence, and has a never
ave had failing fpririg of frefli water riling in it—One acre of
f Alviri- which is good bottom meadow—adjoining lands of Willi
n a rcio- an " Bingham, Esq. Jacob Sink, and others. The terms
of fak, one fifch part in ten days after the day of i'ale,
when immediate possession will be given, tKe residue ia
payments agreeable to the pUrchaser, on paying legal in
terest therelor, and giving (ecurity for the fame, if re-
Dec. is quired. An indisputable title will be given, upon mak
lis morn- t ' ,e payment as aforefaid. x
. A Draft of said Lot may be seen at the Merchants"
nit, that Coffee-Houfe, and at the office of Alexander Power, No.
d on the Chefnut-ftreet, where further information may be
is Grand had, Philadelphia. February 14 §«» *Head of Chejlcty Qveen /tint's C unty,
(Maryland) February 17, 1797*
fHIS Day, the Partnership «f ANDREW M'CASK
£Y and Company having dissolved by mutual con- 1
sent, those who have any demands againftfaid Firm, are si
defir«d to call onfaid M'Cafkey for.fejttlcment, wHojeap-,
-painted to fettle said coneern. Feb. as—wf&mjt
Washington Canal Lottery, v
N«.»l. f
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifsd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollar#, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City ef Washington, frosi th Po
tomac to tTieEaftern Branch Harbour. i
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -.1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, 10,000
1 ditto 10,000 jo.qoo
1
6 ditto 1,000 _ 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,00s
10 ditto 100 1/300
$5 ditto .50 1 \
5750 ditto xi 69,008 |
To be rsifed for th* Canal, 16,153
58so Prizes, 175,000
T1650 Blar.ks, not two to a prize.
T7500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
i? The Comn.itHoners have taken the Securities re I
quired by the aforefaid aft for the pun£lual payment oi
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will c.rpmence, without
delay, as f<Jon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prize. as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finifhed, (hall be considered as relinquished for
the btnefit «f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed.) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, qfY).
hCWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
W». M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City .of Wa(hinj(ton t Feb. is 4
Peter Borger,
No. 129 Mulberry-Street,
HAS imported by Tfyal, captain Robert Knox,
and the Good Friends, captain Smith, from Hamburg
7000 Empty French bottles,
200 do demijohns,
946 do. filled with bejni and lentiU,
too Hand Engines,
too Ps. Plat iHas,
200 White Rolls—
—also —
Several boxes with decanters and tumblers, half pint, pint
.and quarts—one invoice of Nuremberg toys—containing
fnuff-boxes, looking-glasses, &c. .
100,000 Quills o£ different qualitiei, v. t
150 Boxes Windov7 Glass, 7-9 9-11 n-l«.
ON HAND —
10 Qr. Casks Sherry Wine,
4 do. Brandy,
400 Cases belt Holland Gin,
200 Soxes Red Wine, containing 12 bottles each,
One bale of. Flannels aiTorted, and
go Ps. Cl«th,
Freth, Prunes in boxes and bawels.
February 7. tu & fr
SAMUEL RICHARDET
RESPECTFULLY (informs the Gentlemen
Merchantsjvhat he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFFEE HOUSE in the
of Philadelphia.
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citi«s of Europe—Tkey will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a vaifety
, -of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhmenCß,
tfill -at all times bo procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the thoiceft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will be fuppilied with the prime and aarlieft
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or (ingle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Brcakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
,-tegularly kept for conveniency, the Billof pare to be h?.d
it the bar.
The Lodging Rooms wHI be completely and
the utnioft attention paid to tleanlipefs, and every other
requisite.
Samdii Richer det will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he hasbeen fodiftinguifh
ingly norored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
A Black Boy.
TO BE SOLD, thetime of a smart, aiSivc Black Boy,
who has about'fixtetn years to serve. Bnquireat No.
11l Chefnut flreet. February 13 §
Robert Smith & Co.
N». 58 South Front fireet,
HAVE rox SALE, ,
A Quantity of Long Nankeens,
ALSO,
.An aflortment of India Goods,
AMONG WHICH ARE,
Bandanos
Pullicates
Black and colored Persians
Gurrahs
Punjam* •
Brftaes, I
Coflaes
Humhums, Jkc. together with
A general aflortment of European Goods
Suitable for th« ensuing fealon.
February 10 mw&fjw
This day is publi/hed,
ByW iliam Cobbet, in three large odtavo volumes,
A Defence of the Constitutions of Govern
ment of the United States of America,
,Againl the attack of-M. Target, in his letter to Dr.
i rice, dated the twenty second day of March, IT}s,
By JOHN ADAMS, LL. D.
Preftdent of the United Stales.
Erabellilhed with a firikmg Likentfs of the author,
elegantly engraved by Smitber—from an original portrait
Ky Ctplej. February 13 —§3*
Particular TenerifFe Wine.
50 Quarter-C:dks t-articutar TenerifFe WINE,*
Of a superior Quality,
For Cxle by A,. MARPLE il? IS. IV. MORRIS,
No. 60 Dock-ftrcet.
'February t wi&nuat
Wants a Place,
As WA-ITER ill a gentlemari'jj Houle, a yoivng man
who has lived for a conf.derable time m fomeof the
firft houfeSin the city, and whose charader u lure,
would engage with a fm K le gentlemaa to attend on him.
Dircdhons left at the New York and Baltimore stag
office, No. 10, south 4th, near Market flreet, for R. • r
will he attended to. February r 4 d
PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of Trufleei of t
Was,HUSTON Academy, in Somenet Couuty, and r
Stale of Maryland, ;
NOTICE IS HEREBY QIVEN, .
That the office of Principal Teacher in the fa.d school ,is f
"a GENTLEMAN qualified to teach the higher Greek and ]
J\ Latin ClaOics, C-eography, and the Mathematics, with ;
such other blanches of literature as are ufua.ly.taugntlll such ,
schools, would meet with eneouragweflt, and, it is j
believed, would obtain a very ehgib c settlement. ioi the (
«rcfent, the Trustees would We willing to contract with a per. (
Ton capable of takingcharge ol a Grammar's,hoo>. ,
Asthislnllitution is piovided with fufficient to
accommodate the principalar.d his family, and from seven y |
to eighty a Jibrary, an excellent philosophical and ma
thcmatical apparafiu, globes, maps, &c; has refpeaablc.
finds, and is situated in a plentiful and agreeable part of the !
country ; nothing Teems wanting to make it rank among the .
moll ufeful seminaries in this part of the Union, but a luitablc
charafter to piefide in it. . j
Proposals may be addressed to the fubfenber, in Pi incefs-
Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to P''c' or
Martin L Haymie, No. 83, north Tbird-ftreet,
detphia, oriothe P.inter h«eof.
January 10. .Feb. 7. tu&f3w
Davis's Law Book-store.
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
CEORGE DAVIS aanounces to his proieffional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through Ac
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a Angle volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding lov*
prices, which forfeveial ytart pa& have in so dillinguiiheil a
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the m«ft e>ten(vve collec
tion cf the latest Englilh and Iriih Editions ever imported
into this country, are.pablilhed, and wiil be delivered g*awi? J
on application.
to G. D. in writing fyom any
Ihallbe pun£lually attended t«»
A number of TRUNKS for Sale*
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient J.OFT, near Market Street Wharf.
ov.B. tu&f3K?
' 1 1
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery,.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. €4,
South Second flreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft o(
the Legislature of Pennfylvasiia, patfed duijng the la(i
. fcflion, for building a Stone Bridge ovei the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, i? tlje County ot
"Berks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20 000 Dollars - 20,000
1 do. of t©,oc® do. - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. p *5,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - 8,000
so dc-*i of 1,000 do. ... ao*>oo
39 do. of 500 do. r . i9>SOC
80 do. of 200 do. . - . »§,occ
200 do. of 100 do. v - . . ao,ooo
300 do. of 50 do. - - ' i^j«oo
j of 500 do. to be paid the podeft >
for f the firft drawn no.) 5
1 5 do< of 3, poo do. to be paid poflTeffors ?
of the five laii drawn aios {
2 9,400 do. o 15 do, i - 141,000
j0,054 Prizes 300,000
i Blank® r—
f 30,000 Tickets at Ten DcHan 300,000
All Prizesiball be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
picket, fubjett to a deduftion of twenty per cent. The
j Drawing will commence as foon-as the Tickets are difppfrd
.of, or perhaps sooner. of which,public notice will be gi^i.
Y Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVitman,
Joseph Hiejler y J styes Diemer, Tho* \s T)undas %
t James May, John Otto, John Keim, Laniel Graejf>
1 Sebajlian Miller 9 CommIS3IONERJS.
s Reading, May the,9th, 1796.
* Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 1, to be had at the
above office, where the earli«ft information of the dra>v-
ing of the Washington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's,
r are received, and checkbooks for examination and. regif
teringare kept.
t dan's Race-street, John Hay, NortJi Third-street and
8 Henry Sw.yer's,.German Town.
January l(> aawtf
Lflncajler, Harrijburgh, Carlijle, Ship
penjburg and Sunbury
STAGE S.
' The public are requeued to take notice, that the part
nership which has for some time fubfifled betweaii Mathi
aj Slough of Lancaster, and William Geer, is now diflol
ved . but, not as M. Slough insinuates to the public
without just cause ; as will more fully appear by a latter
on the fubjeft from M. Slough t® \V. Geer,. dated the
29th December last a recital of which i> sot now deemed
necefTary. Any gentleman who wishes to be more cir
cumstantially informed of the merits of this bujinefs, by
applying to W. Geer may have the perusal of M.«3loujjh's
letter, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther t»oot W. Geer is not perfeilly juftifiable in attach
ing himfelfto any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance' from .Philadelphia to Shippenfburg,
or any otlftr place.
Now from the liberal and generous support the public
were plealVd to confer on the firfl effort in this business,
V! illiam Geer, in conjun<stion with MefTrs. Reily, Weed
and Witmer, is determined to prolecute and carry it on,
with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o
biige the public can possibly exert.
•S The above company, who are amply provided [with
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render the
passage fafe and commodious, inform those who wish to
_ patronize pnd encouragc the, undertaking, that they can
take their fe2ts at, George Weed's, the sign of the White
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg, Carlisle
and Shippenfhurg. The fare as hitherto eftablilhed.
For the further accommodation ot the pubTrc, a Stajge
r will ft art every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
Elder, in Harrifourg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber
land county, every Thursday, and return from thecci: and
arrive at Harrifonrg every Saturday, so that passengers
deftmed for Xyancafter qr Philadelphia, may proceed cm
r, Mondays.
i£ ' -WILLIAM GEER.
Lancafter,-Jan. 2-7, .1797.
N. B. This Line ef Stages darts from ti c house of
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
at Patrick Cochran s in Shippenfhurg, and returns from
thence on every Thursday : performing! the fame routine
daily ai in its tour from Philadelphia. mwf
For S-^e
By private zonii aB, a very valuable EJlats, inoxi'n by
m >" the name $f
C H a T H A M,
MOST deHghtfylly situated on the north bank of Rap- ]
/tj pahanock river, opposite the town of FrederickAurg, in
the ttate of Virginia, confilling of eleven or fifteen hun' (
dred acres, as may bell fait the purchaser. There is on
~ o f this estate, a large and well built brick house, containng ;
and nine commodious rooms, exclusive of a spacious hall or en
try, el feet fauare, two pair of flairs, fu it able and conven- ,
ient passages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
301 Jis fine healthy eminence, commanding beautiful views m
every dire&ion over the towns of Frederickfburgh and
k and and an extensive cultivated country.—The
with pounds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleaf
i such ure En( j kitchen gardens inferfperfed with a variety of
is fcarcetrees, a choice colle&ion of flower, and flowering
'^ e (hrubs and enriched by various forts of tha follow ing
s P"' fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, clfcfnuts, cherries,peach
es, plumbs, neAarir.es, apricots, grapes, si£4, rafbernes, .
" rc t0 eoofeberries, ftrawbefries, and currants; the whele admi
:,VC"ly r.ihly varied by turfed flop.es which have been formed by
■ftnMe great labour and expense. JJordering upan these im
[)f . ; K . pr.ovemeats,arcfeveral lots, iu a highltate of cultivation,
ng the and Well set with red clover and orchard grass, from
litable which three heavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large and' flourilhing orchards; one
incefs- dwell cinjfen peach trees, th« other of apple and pear
>>aor tress, fclededfrom the bell nurseries in the ftai.e. Pro-
Phi la- pcrly detached from the mansion house Jre extensive
roomy offices of every denomination, viz a Kir.oheu and
'IE. Larder,feoufe-kecper's room and L»undry, with a cellar
3w underneath for a variety of purposes, a ftorc-1 onfe and
(moke house all of biick, a dairy and spring liouffc of ftonc.
Stables for.thirty herfes, and -coaeh houses for -four car
riages: Alfoalarge and well planned farm vli h
barn and granary, a cow lioufe, with {eparate ,l"tail» for
riends, thirty-six /.rown cattle} apartments for fattening veals. -
t,!C muttons and kmbs ; eatenfiveJheds for flieep, and other
'tfang- arraignments for stock (if every defcriptioH, with a large
ut( j and convenient receptable for provender, from whieh they
fhed'a c » n be furniihed without being exposed to t-he me! mency
C ' of the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's {hop,
collec- and quarters fufficient to accommodate in tfee J>.eft man.
pon?£( ner more than fifty labourer^.
1 gialis 'Che arable lands are fs adVautageouEy divided as t? af
° opportunity of making a large qiwnfity of Indian
iftaace corn annually, without bringing the iljpld into, similar cul
ture oftner thanonce in four years; consequently the
lands may be improved by keeping up thfiiriclofures during
the intermediate years, or may be beneficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option ofthe proprietor.
On the prc.nifes there is also a merchant mill with one
■ pair of bi;£t French blirr ftqnes, and one pair of Cologne;
furniihed with modern machinery, and now lejifed {of the
unexpired term of four years, at I jol' per annum, and all ,
grain for the ufe•of the farm, hopperfr<;e, which is near- |
>. €4. ly 100 . more. Fhe mill and miller's house are huilt of j
free stone, wjthin a very ftjwll distance of navigation, near j
to which are two or more valuable iifheries, and a well
accustomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
* Frederickfljnrg. l'he land contains inexhauftiblequarries
Rivei free stone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with |
|nt 0 ( remarkable fine water and pyffeffes a due proportion .of j
lollari. nieadow, which by having the command of water may .
20,000 "e considerably increased. The roads are good, and the j
10,000 neighbourhood genteel andfociable. fn fadt, exclufivc of
j5,000 an improveakleand well<conditioncd farm, tjie value and |
8,000 emolument infeparalily connected witn a mill, ferries,
scseoo fifheries and .quarries eligibly #tuated ; the profits arising
19,500 from an ke-houfe inferior to none in the state, and agat'-
i(5,0c0 den of four acres to abundantly stocked with vegetables
jo,ooo 0 f a li ioru as to ;be fully equal to the demand in market,
1 j,«oo thtre nlight be detailed many other advantages, appjr
joo ; taining to the ferxility of these lands, which the fubferiber
conceives itunneceffary to mention, being tally convinced
that when examined, it .will be found 10 be a complete,
1 000 P' ej '' aßt healthy residence, paffefling beauties and
coavcnieaccs faSkvH t»-anra'6t the-aitemro»i or Tmy "per
-00 coo ' on deiirous of becoming a purchaser.
' i'he motive v/hich induces the fubferiber to offer for
sale an estate so Angularly beautiful and adva/itageous, is
foo,coo a delire to become an inhabitant gf Alexandria, where he
ving ij can V, .th more ease attend Ui his intercfts in the peigh
rtunaie bourhood of that city
. The ihe purchaser may he accortimodated-with a few slaves
ifppfrd in families, cither for plantation or doineftic use. A part
: giirf.i. of tlie purchafc money will be required and the balance
i;man, made ealy, the debt beipg properly fequred.
undas, WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
jraeff ■ c * lat ' aam » (V'rg) Pec 19, 1796 Juth —zawlm
City of Wafliingtpn.
at the O of the Lottery, No. 11, for the .impro.yeir.cnt
drajv 'he FederaLCity.
tterv's, inagriifitent ) 10,000 dollars, & \
1 regif' dwelling-house, J cash 30,000, are ) 5-O.ooe
.1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,00® 40,000
Sheri- I* ditto 15,000 & calh 15,090 30,000
et and I ditto 10,000 & cafb 10,000 10,000
J ditto 5,000. & cash 5,090 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
Ship* * 5,000 each, are • 10,00 a
■Xo do. Ijoo9 - «. 10,000
io do. 500 - . 10,000
00 dq. 10© - - 10, one
e part- 100 '' o ' J° - - 10,000
Mathi- 4°° do. 15 . 10,000
' fliffol- I ' OOG do- »® - 10,000
public lJ»oo® do. *0 .
a letter — —
ted the *6,739 Prijiet.
deemed Blanks.
>re cir-
.eft, by 50,000 Tickets, »t Eight DolUr,, 400,000
iOUJfh 9 _
c " vh f- ' n 3 v °ur those, who may take a quantity of
attach- l.ckets.the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
or the ticket, and the 3o,ooothe last but on» :
And approved notes, securing payment in either monsy
er prizes m ten days alter drawing, wUI be received for
public any number not less than 30 tickets.
, Th,s lottery winafTyrti an elsgantfpecimen of th.pw
, Weed vate buildings to be ereiled in the City of WalHntton—
d tn° n ' I , W0 beaunful designs are already (el«aed for the entire
o 4on oq two o. the public fquaree; from these prawings
I 'w= h ', 1 1^ p r °polcd toerect-.wo centreand fourcorner buildisgs,
d -Tit th.m P Ule afur thl " lo »«y is fold, and to convey
I ' Whe ", to the fortanate Adventures, in
to the manner deitribed in the scheme for the Hotel LgUerv..
White n 0f r fivC '> r ccnt " will »"de to defray
l-Hidav wUI ? , ry "P cnf " °[ P the surplus
C n r a , pan of the fund intendied for the National
Carldle Umverfity to be erected within the city of WafhWton.
' . lnereal fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the Pr^p.
tas S'Sl"" "J**- »AS.iSi
umber. iSSfeST
ffene»r d s «" T t SAMUEL BLODGET.
JFZ Fam«Weft the &l " k of C" l *-''- sos
of Tohn Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, Boston :
ER. CoLr's Ferry nS ' m ° nd = aPd ° f Richard
- : — —L " eo
louse of . i 1 e Subicriber
and Sa- JWfORIB the Public, that he and ha. on
ftward; * ,j t ° r ''l®' a vcr Y general affortm^nt
miburg baddies, Bridles, Harness and Trunks
arrives As ufu.l, also, flrf BUCKKT« '
as from all which he will difpof- r,t 0 , m -.rf excr.lent quality
routine ChefLutflreet, pfflphU.; ' Crm ' " No ' 88
mwf WU-UAM JOKES.
Red Clover Seed.
Fre(h red Clever o«ed *t' the belt quality, i n ba®t 0 f
j bulhels each
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate use
Tenerifie wine in [.ipes, liogfheadt and quarter caflts
Ditto do. of firft quality, for the use of private
families
Coffee in ho'gflieids
Jamaica spirits
Connedlicut soap in (mill boxes
Window glass and Spanish legars, and
Two trunks of best patent, plain and ribbed Glk and
cotton hosiery, for sale by
JOHN CRAIG.
February i. wff&mtf
A New WorL ~ '
PROPOSALS
For printing and publilhing, by fubferiptioo, The
History of Pennfylvama,^-
IN North-America, from the original infti ution and fettle,
meat of that proviace, uader the firft proprietor and gov.
ern«r, William Penn, in t6Bi, 'till after the year i 742 •
with an INTRODUCTION refpefting the Life of W.
PENN, prior to the grant of that Province, and the religious
Society of the people called Quakers; with the FIRbT RISE
of the NEIGHBORING QOI.ONIES, ra©re particularly
WEST-NEW-JERSEY, and the Settlement of the DUTCH
and SWEDES on DELAWARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PROVINCE.
And of the general Hate, in which it fleurifhed, principally
between the years 1760 and 1770. The whole including a
variety of things, ufeful and interesting to be known, re
fpc&iOfij r hit country in early time, &c. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years 1776 and 1780,
Bv ROBERT PROUD.
" Pulchrum rjibenefacere ctiam benedicere haud ab
furdum eft, vtl pace vet beUoclarum fieri licet.*' :al. Catalin.
" Sefcnm plerique arbitrcntur res bellieas majorcs ejjc quam ur
baruu, minucndacfl iuccopinio." Cic. Off.
(1 ntcred according to law )
u WILLIAM PENN, the great kg tfitor of the Quakers, •
(in Pennfylvmia) ha i the success of a conqueror, in etfablifh
ingand defend'h» » * colony, among tribes, without
ever drawing the sword ; the goodness of the most benevo
lent rulers, in treating his fubje&s as his own children ; and
the tenaernels ol an uriiverlal .lther, who opened nis arms
to all mankind without diftin&ion of fe6i or part/. In his
Republic it was. not his tetkigiduj, creed, but pcrfona] mcfrit,
that entitled every member of foci&~£~Tdr itfe pidlc&ieii ~au*& •
emolument,of tbcMate*"
MJay on by Arthur 0* Leary.
CONDITIONS.
1. This work will be printed in two oftavo volumes, neat'
ly bound and lettered, b -th infiieep and calf, for the choice
of the fubferibers; on paper familar tQthat of the conditions,
' es fuili/lied iji the Subfripticn papers.
i 11. The head ot William Penn, handsomely engraved,
! will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or (ketch of PennfyL
vania, and the parts adjacent, to the second volume
i The price to fubferibers will be four doNars and art
half in fhecp.and five dolors in calf; —one dollar to be paid
, at the time of fub&ribing, two dollais on the delivery of the
firft volume, and the remainder on the delivery of the second.
j IV. When qne thousand copies ate fubfenbed for, the
, work will be put to preijp with all convenient ex
[ pedition.
Subfcripuons will fee .received by Zachar'*h Poulfon, jun.
Printer, No. 80, Chefiiut-ftreet, and at the Philadelphia Li
| brary in Fifth-ftreet; by Isaac Collins. Printer, and
i James, Merchant, New-York; by John P. Pleafants and
George W. field, Merchants. Baltimore} and by other
perlonsboth in town and CQUfltjry*
January .8. tu&f
> PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
On thi following Pofi Roads, will be rectived until
tl-'cjirjl day- of March ntVU fncliifiue >
<j. From Charleston, S. C. by Jackfonboro' and Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, ; twice a week. Receive the Mail
at Charleflon every Tuelday and* riday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
A. M. Returning* receive the Mail at Savannah cx y
Saturday, by 6, P. M. and Wednefdiy byJS, A. M. and
deliver it at Charleftap the next Tuesday and Friday
by noon.
Kropofals fur this route 'will be received by the pojl-majler at
Savannah.
£. Ftom Coqfahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
Receive thp mail at.Cpofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort !>y"Viooß on Frulay. Re
turning, leave Beaufort cyery Friday by 3, p. m. and arrive
at Cdofahatchy on Saturday by 8, A. m.
Proposals for cjtcrying the mail on this route will be re
ceived by the poft-mafler at Beaufort.
*Note it The Post-master General may alter the times'
for the arrival and departure of the mail 9 at any time da
< ring the continuance of the Contra As, he previously stipu
lating an adequate compensation for any extra expence
that may be ocoafioned thereby.
Note 2. For every hourS delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the time* prescribed by conr
trail, the coiitr,ac3;or shall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars ihail be incurred.
Note" 3*. Should any per ion'making proposals deiirc an
alteration of the times of arrival and dep-»(.ure a'cxovc /po
cified, hk* rraift (late the alteration desired and the price
he will carry tfee mail for with and witkout such alte»
ration.
Note 4. The contra&s are t© be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September ill the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pojl Majler General.
General Ppft Office, ">
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1797.3
11 vi. 16. / aaw6w.
Caution.
"\TryEREAS Col. GEORGE JACKSON
VV of Harrifon county, (late of Virginia, has nflign
cd and transferred, to Mr. John Jackson, (through Mr.
Edward Jackson, who as a public servant wa« tutrufted
to execute my buflnef») about three hundred thoufandacrei
of my Land without my knowledge, power or assent
therefore notify all persons net to ptirchafe aky of tPe
Lands under such Yague from any of the Jack
sons or their afliirnees, as they nut ultimat»ly rcver t«
me. Rd. SMYTH.
„ Philadelphia, February
1 This Day is PublHhed,
j BY Mess- Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other
Bookfellej s. price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, elegant
lv printed ou'woye paper, and hot-prelM, by Johj» rhomp
' son,
A COMPARATIVE VIEWOF
• The CONSTITUTIONS of the fcveral Slates,
With each other, and with that' of the United States:
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of eaehCcn
' ftitution, and classing together their most important p: o
= viSons, under the fever.il heads of administration ;
' Notss and Obfer'vations. By William Smith, of South-
Carolina, L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of t..e
United States. Dedicated to tha People of the United
n States.
N. B. A. few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
of a dollar. February 6
I PRINTED BY JOHN F£nno;
—No. 119 —
CHEBN VT-ST&EST.