of tijz and Philadelphia jDculy Advertiser.
- Number 1625.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS,
t Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
Monday) . south Front-street,
J \ Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6t
(. S»uth Front-street.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
Fu/fdritJ . Au<ai( "ij No. 73 south l-'ront-ftreet.
J Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
(_ High-ftreet.
Weixcfdtxi \ Afternoon—Peter Benfon, No. 74
( south Third-ftrcet.
Tour/day j Forenoon—Edward Fox.
(_ Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday ] Forenoon—William Shimon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon'—Peter Ben Yon.
&eal Kftate for hale,
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good fi
l. X (nation on Chester Creek, in Middleton
1 -nvnfii.p, Delaware County, containing 1191
sees, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land, wcil tim Wed ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, many mart
acres can be made at a Cnialt expence. There are
011 (aid prcmifes, a good orchard ol bed grafted
lruit, a house, with afpring near the,<Joor, a frame
barn with (tabling under, and a log tenement on
one part of said place Any p-rfon inclining
to purchase, tray view the premif.s by applrintr
to Wm. Pennbll, on said farm, an 1 knojv the
terms by applying to Jona 1 kan Pennell, ia the
.borough of Ciefter.
riovcn;6er 21 ■ co j
R E MOV A £ ~~
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that-he
has removed his Store of China, Glais, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, ffom No. Si North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor ofliis former customers.
N. 13. Crates put up with care at the ftorteft
notice.
Kovember 2. dtf
forsale;
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Alfa, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, couCHing of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and f.rge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, Hand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers, Chains, Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
*#* Apprentices Wanted.
_novembcr 3. f&tutf 5
For Sale by the Subscriber, 1
White Plattillai
Brown Holhnda
While Sheetings
Dowiafles .
Silelia bordered Handkerchief! .
Striped Shmoufes
Klick Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
GUfs Tumblers, and Looking GlalTes, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
jno-vember 6. eodiw '
FOR SAIE,
A Team of five excellent Horses,
with a W-.ggoa and Gears. The Horses are 4]!
young, fli ong, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as most in the coun
try. The Waggoji and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERX GREEN,
Welt "J'own, Chiller county, ort:o
Thomas Fijher, J
No. 142, S. Second Street, PhiU elphia
tt mo. 2, eod.^w.
Samuel 6c nners i" jfli^r,
E
ARE NOW OPEKINC,
At their Ware house, No. a;, Dock Street, afrefh
aflortment of Woolen and otjier fmtablc to
tl}v season, received by the late arrival* from Eng
land. j
Tftey Lave also for Sale,
Lisbon
Teneriffe ( . . ~ , , _
Sherry, and ( P l ? c *>bhds. and quarter calks-
Pert Wines, J
AiTorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
icth mo- 23d. diw3taw3w.
This Day Published,
A»d to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of t
Second and Chefnut streets, !
Price yfttbs of a Dollar, I
Observations on certain Documents n
Containod is No. V and VI of
41 The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which tlvi charge or speculation against '
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
X.ate Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br HIMS tI T.
This publication presents a concise statement
■of the base means pra&ifed by tht Jacobins of tic <
United States to asperse the chara<slers of thof* '
persons who arc considered as hoflile to their difor- I
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor- ''
refpondence between Mr. .'•.imilton and MefTrs. "
Monroe, Muhlenhurgh and Venable, on the sub- 0
jeist of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha- _
milton, proving beyond the poiTibility of a doubt,
«hat the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiraey on the part
oi the latter and his associates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favur of wholesale purchafors, for I
cash. Orders to be adarefled t» Mr. Yoon«. v
Auja/I 25. s,
DANCING. ci
MR. £3* Mrs. BYRNE,
Of the New 1 heatre,
RESPECTJ ULLY inform the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia, that Mr. Btrnf-'s
will commence on the ift, and Mrs.
ByRNE's on the ad of December next. 4
«rw>vember io
Wanted, to Hire y
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near C(1
the ientreof tfie city—for which a generous of
will be given ; to be taken for a year, or 011
»i\.ore tor a longci' term. Inquire sf tha Printer.
OA. 15* »otf
PHILADELPHIA:
For Liverpool,
J The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Suas Swain. ' .
A Lar S e proportion of her
5j cargo being ready to go on
board, is expeAcd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
;t. For Fre 'S llt or Passage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN 4S* Co.
r j november 12. J
FOR LONDON,
TnE SHIP
H^ wili AM PENN,
EgZ Jamks Josiah, Master.
I HE Ihip is now taking on board her cargo, and
will fail in ail next week. For freight or paflage
- a Pply captain, or to
|> JeJfe Robert Wain.
7 rtov 21. r
j
For Liverpool,
I Jk Ship
' CL . OTHIE R.
NathanielD. Gardner, majler,
fail about the nth
yy For freight or pas
- hge appLj- to the Captain, at wharf,
; or, o JAMES OLDDKN,
nov. j. dtf No 4X, N. Front-street.
For Londonderry,
TMI BRIGANTINE
S U KE r,
E'TfvjJ l William Whitten, Master.
~ A strong good veffVl, about two
hundred tans, to fail with all convenient speed, i
great Ipart of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Lant/enberjrtr'i viharf.
Who wants to Charter. i
A Vessel of about three [hundred tons.
nov 18. §
- 1
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler, <
Captain Chisxolm, '
j A new velTel, with excellent
accommodations for palTengers—
Sails on the roth of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS Is" SIMSON.
Wb» hint to d'fpcfe of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
itcvembtr 18. §
1 ■ i
For Hamburgh.
1 - The Brig MARY,
P*Ta» York, master,
j- Lying at Ruffel's wharf, noar Pine
C street, is now ready to take in a "
Cargo, and will fail in t«n days.
For Freight, or Paflage, apply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
November I si. dtf
_____________________ v
For Sale or Charter,
The Snow '
gf|. GOOD HOPE,
:, rfvSyfl Wi 1 carry about laoo barrels, and
'® rfi< iy to take in a cargo.' For terms
'■™" * apply to
Pragers Co. i
No. 151, South Secend-ftreet. J
Who have for sale—prime St.Croix Sugar and I
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and TeuerifFe wine.
November 7. dtf.
Rundle y Leech,
Have just. received, and have for Sale, at »•. 9,
■Walnut-street,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. best house CO \ LS
Queens' WARE in cases, afTorted
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in do. *
THry '' AV P. ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER,
P E G" G Y,
Burthen 115 tons, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to sea with little ex-pence or delay.
LIKEWISE,
JbTHE BRta i
WILLIAM,
Burthen aoi torn,
november 16. §
XA'i Wanted to Charter, r
To one port in Hifpaniola and back g
fa ft failing VelTel, of the bur- r ,
then ot 6 or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to r<
Benjamin Morgan, No. 170, South Front street, b
or tok ROBERT ANDREWS, t l
No. 86, South Wharves. g
november 10. § a(
For Charter,
THE SHIP
J obn Bulkle y>
Samuel Volans, Majler.
| 'HIS velTel is built of live oak
and cedar, of about_ 30CC
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a lij
cargo, bi
JeJJe £9* Robert Wain. t0
OA- 3'. §
For Sale or Charter, >.
MThe faft failing brig
Two Brothers, fii
, Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent single dcck'd velTel, burthen about )- a
1600 barrels—not twelve months old, and in t0
compleat order. For terms apply to the mailer
on board, or to
Jo/eph Antbtny & Co.
Nov. diw.
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
Philip Nickhn £sf Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
.At their Stores un Walnut flret Wharf,
Havatin«ii(£agars, white and brown
I is hhds Jamaica do.
er 30CQ pieces of broad Nankeehs 'y,
™ Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chests
he Quiclcfi]»(.r in tubs
Madeira Wtne in pipe« and hoglhr.ids
>H rcncriffe Wine in pipe*
Old 1 cd Port Wine in hogsheads
Sail Cauvafs, a Sorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Manehefter Goods, conGlling of Dimities,
Muflinets, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c.
200 crates Queens' Ware, alforted
Nails, alforted
Black quart Bottles
} Yellow Otre in rifles
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter calks Gun Powder
7iov lane also for SAL £ or CHARTER,
HAMBURG PACKET,
Burthen 310 tons, coppered to
the bends, and completely fitted.
Thejhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
good yelfel, ami completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
The whole of the above veflels to be seen at
, Walnut street Wharf. § jr.
! Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By ftii 9 Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
P'ggy, from Oporto, in Pipes aud Hoglheadi,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
• WHO ALSO OFFlft . tOK. SAL»i
The Ship
AMITY,
Fourthoufand barrels burthen,
excellent prder—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
LIKEWISE,
The Schooner Indostry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above vessels at South street
wharf. eoim. Nov. x.
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very firft quality, in pipes, hhds. and
quarter calks, just landed from the (hip
from Madeira, and for sale by
JOHN CRAIG,
No. 11, Dock-street.
who has for charter,
CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about l»oo barrels,
jull hove down and put in com
plete order, and n«w ready to recejve a cargo.
Also, F,r SALE tr CHARTER,
, Tft k3 J2t. The Ship
JOSEPH U S,
Burthen about 1800 barrels.
nrvrmficr 6. 3*Wtf.
James & Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty ef informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
llore to No. 54, South Front fired, next d«or to Ed
ward Fox's Au&ion Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general assortment of
European £s° Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in th« Clothier,
William Penn, £;c. &c.
o<f>. 27. S
Samuel Pleafants Isf Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlrcet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now epciiing for sale, on
rcafonable terms. t>3 »7- —4w
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and s
a quantity of Bengal COT I'ON t
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal J ,
300 calks RICK, ind
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
• Oil. 17. $
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bomdeaux Brandy
Teneriffe H'ine
Molajfes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hogjhead of paiit
brushes.
N. (5* J. Frazer.
No. 95, South Front Street. J
Nov. 7. dim. (
~~ JTUIr ice.
THE partnership between John Instone and
James Bacon, under the firm of Inftoneand
Bacon, is this day dilfolved by mutual consent.
Allperlons who (land indebted to fa d firm are
requested to make immediate payment of their '
rafpe&ive accounts, to John Sktrin, on Landen
burger's wharf, who is duly authorised to receivi
the fame ; and all persons having any demands a
gainst the said firm, are desired to bring in their
accounts immediately to him for settlement. j
John fnjlone,
James Bacon.
rovember 10. eodtf
Notice to Creditors. 1
WHEREAS Jofiah W. Oibbs and William
Gibbs, did on the 9th day of June las, as- 3
sign to the fubferibers, all their property for the
benefit of their creditors, this is to give notice jj
to all the creditors of the above firm, tha* all '
their books, as well as the statement of their
concerns, are lodged with John D. Blanchard, °
No. C, South Third Street, for their irifpedlion,
and also the discharge which is to bp signed by
all thole creditors \» ho wifli to receive the bene- ?
fit of said alignment.
All persons indebted to the said firm, are here- °
by notified to pay their relptilive debts to the
Taid John D. Blanchard, who is fully authorized
to receive and fettle all their accounts.
JOHN D. BLANCHARD.
JAM.ES VANUXEM. p,
A. BUILER. !■'
Nov. i 3. mwftt.
THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 23, i 7 Q 7 .
SALES POSTPONED,
On account of the Weather.
On Friday the 24th Inft- precisely at 9 o'clock in
71 v' C m . or, " n S- wiU fc « f °i d at c. Emlen's Lumber
v u Northern Liberties, near the Hay scales,
all the personal property there remaining, belorg
ing te the estate of Caleb F.tnlen, ceceafed—coti
lilting of a large quantity of lumber, &c.
FOOTMAN fcj* Co. AuAionecrs.
nr,v 21
■ -400,000
-400,000 weight of choice &t. Dc
!S> ntingo COFFEE,
c. POR SALE BY
JAMES YARD.
diot
FOR SALE—by the Subscribers,
. An elegant assortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIKFS, by the bale.
WILLINGS to* FRANCIS,
n ni? - 11 5 Penn-flreet.
Yellow lever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. otfavo.
By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chefnut ttreet,
' (Price, in boards 8 7 I 1 Cinti)
Neatly printed on fine American wovfe mtdiuoi
Paper,
A VIEW
( Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftahlifhed in th« elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M. D.
With an attempt to correfl some important er
rors of that wot k, and cases in illuflration, chief
ly felecfled from the records of their praftice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br I/illiam 2'atms Isf Chas. Maclean.
1 To which is subjoined, a Treatise on the a«Sion
of Mercury upon-living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of dileafes of indiredl debility
Andadifl'ertation onthe fourcta of Epidcmicand.
Pestilential diseases; in whicbisattemptedtoprsve
by a tiumerousinduflionof fails, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicissitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
nov- at. jut
To be Sold,
A Viluable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land, \
well watered, in a healthy situation, about '
fovea miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and poHcflion had in a few weeks. '
Part »f the purchafe-mcney being paid, a rcafon
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire »f tba Printer,
november 3 mwftf
NOTICE. '
ALL persons concerned are hereby notified, !
thai the fnltfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Btockinthe Bank of the United Statts—He for*
warded them under caver ef a letter addrefled to
John Anfley.of London, by the Ihip Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this port in June last for Lon
don. But that (hip having been captured on her <
passage and sent to France, the above letter and in- t
clofurc have failed in their deQinatiou. 1
Three rertitcates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for j
four (hares, dated January 1 ft, 1797, and
iflfued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, november 8. 2aw6w I
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114. cornar
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. , 0&. 21 dtf
Landing this day,
From on board the fchooncr Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Matter,
{ Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY I
George Latimer & Son.
uovemher 9. J
Ju/l Publ'ijhed, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DAVIES,
At his BoaK-3-roßr, No 68, Hiph-Rtreet,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
A NNUAL RE G/ST ERfcr thIfNITEDS TA TEB
FOR THE YEAR 17t)8 :
Containing complete and correct Hits of t*< Execu
tive, t cgiflative and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS OP GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, necessary to be
known in every State of the Union.
En I .'tjhed ivith two bandfomc Engravings,
One of which is depidtive of a me!;inchoiy scene
that occurred during the American war.
OS. IS.
Just published,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. & P.
Rice, No. 50, MarUet-ftreet 1 J. Ormrnd,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftrcet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED,
I. Decimal fraitions, in a plain, concife a
and easy manner.
1. Theextraflion of the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, redlangular and ob
lique.
4. An exa<2 method to call up the content*
of lands.
S- Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use j
of scale and compafies, on a table of logarithms.. r
In which is given some account cf.the variation
of the needle, and the causes of its attraction.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
Aupuft t. law
The Medical Ledtures
In the University of P'.-nnfylvania, are poft
po ed untii the last Monday in November b
r,ext. e l
OiSober 14*
n'.wfjt
FOR SALE, Br
in Joseph Anthony & Co.
er No.-j, Chefnut Street,
is i A car ff° °? choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ift and id
r. P r;, of. jnft landed
J, IJO balei of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do- Sum, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bale*
Bourbon Inci fjo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine } In pipe, k
do. market do f qr. caflci.
New England rum in hogfteads
Genuine Holland (Jin in pipes
Claret in cases
- "-permsceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
> Choice Hflifax Salmon in barrels and half lurrair
Do. Herring in do do
Bed Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall Ctzt.
New-England c«>w I : ««n
r A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Ruflia feather bed#
Clover and Timothy feed in ;aflcs
Long wha'c-boue
No. i, 2, and 3, Boston fail dndc-~
• A few chertj firft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
, An invoice of Dutch hoilow glass ware.
N ivemher g.
For Sale, by the Package,
For ctfh, or good notes at Cxty or ninety davs,
VIZ.
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain ")
Jtripes, and Checks )
do. do. Tamhoored !> "" orte d '•»
do. Ladies P 4c kage».
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jacoaet chintz im.fliil for borne and the Weft
India market, Pnllicote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz (hawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Alio a few scotch cambricks and aa
assortment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufacturers in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackburn's
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov- 6. aawtf.
FOR SALE, ;
bt the so«scrib>£ks, No. ji, Penn-ftreet,"]
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
ConftjYing of
Baftas, of various qualities & prics«
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs ©uzzey do.
Humhums Charconna Dorca
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Pats a Hhkfi.
Ginghams Mulmul io.
Ouzzenas Bandannoss
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salg»t«hys Sooty do.
Gillu Romals Perlians of various aolosn
Mock Pulicats
»0O tons SUGAR
90,000 Il>. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed to (tit 11
that commodious rtore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth ftr»et. „ ov . !c
LANDING, "
From on board the «iip Qleopatra, Samusl Newell,
commander, frem London,
60 tou3 of the bell clean Russia
HEMP
60 raflc; of bottled BROWN STOUT.
F orUle by the fubferibers, No. 21, Penn-Jlreet.
Willings b* Francis.
OA. jt. d
Just arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, acd for Sale by the
bcrs, No. at, Pcnn-ftreet,
6ji hogsheads,")
>Prime Coffee
640 bogs J
y Willings Isf Francis.
Oil. iS. j'
FOR SALE,
• BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, io,
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pip<*
Lifbnn WINF,, in pipes
CLOVESand? r , . .. . . ,
NUTMFGS ( °» the 'ate" importation, in boxes
Epauifh Wool, in Balei, suitable for Hatters.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. ai.
Nov. x. w&stf
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR SALE,
At hi« Store, No. 25, Great Dock-ftrcet,
250 bales of Bengal Gaods
Containing Baftas
CclTas
Gurrahs
Moragugunggjes ,
Tooltsry
Check and Stripes
Bandano HandkercWofis
Mamoody
Calicoes
IT boxes Irish Linens
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
20 canisters Java Sugar
78 bags black Pepper
I ?.6 do. East India Gingqr
J 00 calks roll Brimftons
70 pipes Madeira Wine
.5 7 calks Gin
A quantity of sheathing Copper and Naife.
Oiflob r 30. Taw}w
Lately Published, ~
In one vol. 8 v». (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut streets,
A Collection of Papers on the fubj«& of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH WEBSTER, jurr.-
Containing le'tc: * from Ilo&ors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, I'aylor, Racii'ay, Monfon, Reynolds, MitSk
ell,on contagion, &c. &c.
Sept. J J;
[VcLUMIi XII" RV,ON"nci:LIGENCb. j££
iv> ''72 XiSfc" !Ks«
the subsi quint exphfion of the ] Wo^,ilS
It appears that the volcano bad bun m a mo,I ,
violent fermentation previous to that event.] „ Rc
FRANCE. Kcvo'tut
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED, j
Sitting of Augull, 3°- , , rors u i,
lStvr.irdi, in the name of the committee o
«Vic mfiruaion, made a report on tHt cc e- Nat
it ion of the ift Vendemaire of the 6th yea. , , (
the annivrrfary of the foundation | f, iat ar;
ii t . He moved, that o* that day the
of both councils fhaUmakea pec p dare t<
events so fortunate and so glorious. The fpeeeh £
of Bernardi was ordered to be printed. « M
DEBATE. ON the „ j t
ADDRESS OF BAILLEUL . 0 LIS ,
j;; rke(
—Theri is fold, »t the door, of .he CD V ; r ,
l-rrell,' a p»Ai?Hlct mtitulcil» D*d*rauan to
,ny Cc,,jntw*ts, and WfnM lumM
Wof l he Council ps Five Hundred. lon tlonill
i r ,«„t > cin scarcely uerfuade myfclf that one ,), e [ t;
of our cvlleague* could proceed to fach excefks. yoßrn
Yon nuy judge of the nature of this pamphlet , empt
,n * tribu "p frol ? P" nift
W'.ichliberty is totally b.aniihed It is to trench upon i
r, y?«s to the whole nation, that I speak. I ven a
SSCt cp«c«l my sentiment. ; 1 (hall pub lift meafu
"r •1 , , fear With whatsoever compLi- the au
'r r/' Si". -** •» *55 8
rTartL <ns, may proceed to the tribune, boast of rh.
In,r. jo'l-.ce Snd »nd y
„f t v, e t alumo.es which they fry a. e daily rtter
ed arr. nlk the legiiU.ve body, " W "i* nounc
Counci of hundred, it M notorious thai
th- ' '.fl.itivf body, and particularly the C out -
S-ffcle Hnndred.ar<* held ««£ f J They
the enli ■ httned piind., not only whet
of Europe. It .is known, however, that there Cmil .
»,e in both Council! some honourable excepti- t , nce
r thing
What was our fitpation before the.firft of o{ th
N Prairial—that is to fay before the arrival of .he du la
New Third- and what is it. now ? It is noton- i, ut ,
ou'Tand all France will .ttrft it, that before ..
theVirft of Prai'rlal, our fituauort was every day Jean
the WW.OI rr« ' w hich seemed dai- •• Tl
!rsl««.J-r' i T;: if
which -pp-ired so near to in that it could no
efeape.Covered with glory id the ey». of a can.
'v naUonf| the posver, most determined
foliclttdpeace; commerce feemedto relume its
■routed aflivity ; foreigners "ring' M '
their confidence in our government, by bring
in K their catuals into France ; the public funds q
had risen to a height which exceededourmoft
sanguine hopes ; national property w« eagerLy
pnrchafed. Scarcely, however, had the fir# of
Prairial, the hirbingtf of [Gr,
revolutionary plans, arrived, when the pu l ic A
fund, fell almost to no value ; foreigners w th- M3[
drew their capitals, and trade every f
t iuflr- '; the tribunals In general teftified the t
raoS revolting partiality ; public admimltrators tril)
n.flefled their duty ; the oegociation. tar peace /
assumed a languid and tedious charadler , the t nh
envies of the republic difjfcyed th.mfelve, «
with audacity, ahd"diflVobled not their hopes f cy<
the national property «' despised, aod.its pur- by
' chafers profcrihed—Public «ra*q\nli'y » "owe- )
y^ rw -rJh're difteibed ; perfonallafcfy .. endan- j »
Et red • a.id a cruel incertitude, whisk every
day increafcs, has taken poi.iffion of ev.ry
W'haf name can be gi,.-» to thofc men who ,
>ave lu'l the impudence to excule in ,he Tl>'l
- nnsl, revolt and alTaffinat.on »nd-ho
have even given the fijnal for confofiorl and
carnage? Infamous-men! all who ha'ire
their aid to ? f -MMh ihe repuhl.e, ,
fuffered for it, they have outlawed. I "/* vie * lib
ing the accounts of their fitting., doesl there p- pi ,
pear a word whicK is not a c.use of a.arm to re- r( .,
. publicans ?Is there a word ,«^ d X J
. ford erconragemen? to royalty ? Of ail the Uw,
and t»l=ns.of liw»; which have been proposed j fll i
and fug<-cfted brthefe conspirator., there is not 1 t ,„
one wh?rh does not eithei dtreflly attack the qu
conllituUon, or tend to deftroyit. fP ,r " and,t ' 1,0
for-e I need not repeat what is generally
known —The c«. duil of the romrrnUee of si- th
nance,-the recall QS the emigrants of the Lower
Rhine, of Toulon, and of the Western Depart
ments, are so m.-ny violations, as »
criminal, of the conftitutianal afl. The recall J
n f the tranfportod priests is another atil, wmch
accords wiUi iht spirit of the conft.tuti- m
01s nor with the powers whieh it gives to the V
,r « fl H^ e the°d!ftaffiou on the liberty of worfnp h ;
a libertv which was eftaMMhed before th. am- r
val of of the new third, and *h!ch was d
difpoftd to attack, *uy otner '°"P e ' j
rate, m the Republic a great movement aga.nft tl
L Republitfind it. inflation.? l a
uy. other effect ? O ftame of human kind ! Let e
those lp echi s that are daily uttered, and which #
breathe the ieotiments of the fifteenth century,
be' read, in v.hich the fpenkers have dared to
advance that all must be eflablifneJ which has
bern abolilhed by the nation—those speeches
which have transformed the Gouncil of Jive «
Hundred into a Council of Bigot,, "nd rencered
them the deriHon «t ,Europe -Let those fpeeeh- ,
rs be read, which paint vengeance and affilnna- ,
tion as something very natural, -md wh.c.-have (
transformed the Council of Five Hundred into
an Arena of Cannibals. Let those cr.eoffury
be remembtred which have been direfled a
g-ainft the men who hive had the courage to ,
freak of prefervlng the .-public, of
focal order, and of the executing the laws f«r
the protcilib of perfons.-Le those writings be
perused which daily preach up Counter Revolu-
Ln and death to RepuUicans.-Let it be re
collefle'd by whom they boafl to be protcflio
and difTeminated —And every one #l.l be con
vinced that Royalty, infamous has its
agents in the Leg'.AatQrc 1 The Traitor, fit
t!l " The Republicans complain wiih bitternds,
they are every where proscribed, under the
appellation of Jacobins and AnarchifU.
«' Some troops were put in motion. Ihe
' Conspirator. (for crimina. s fomctimes tremb e)
felt that they wanted an armed force. 1 hey ir
ritated the Citizens agamft th* SoU.ier.; an.,
they created a force, the ot jeA of yfh'ch cannof
be dfii'hted. Brave Grenadiers defended the
Republicans on the 13th Vendemaire*. feme
Grenadiers also defended the throne on the 10 1.
ofAuguft. Measures have been taken to dis
miss the former, and to re.nftate the latter, rh if
is the execution of the plan ot the Agents
Royalty. The Gendermarie ftdl offered a gua
rantee against the affafTißation ol Republicans.
Thcv were diffolvcd, and their new
L combined, that no Officer who h" fcrved n
the Revolution can be admitted. Ih » too is
he phP of the agents of Royalty. The report
of the crimes of the Conspirators at last reached
our armies. Their indignation soon hurst forth
It was impudently proposed to declarethem cri
minal; but this was not yet quite convcmen.,
and thev are pardoned for this time. Frave ar
miesl humble yourselves I you have been par
doned; but if you trespass again, you w
tain'y be decimated—your genertju. battalions
'• will be difto'v -d. Brave S-'Vii'i's ! yots-esjica- of llie it
led to eujuy the Laurels of .viilo'rv—rciurw to 0 f :lufe
your homes, a«d you will find tint thtre If, pro- () ' ia;is ? '
1 vided for you," contempt, insult, aud death.— ' |. ; 3 r
j Enquire of your co Made*, whom uenonrjb.e [
j woutuli have recvlled totluir fairitlies, how they noir.u <u
! have been treated. . ot ti.o e
" Repuhlic.iis! it is propo'fe 1 tf> create j | arc thoU
' Fauquier TiUville Roy.il to perleciite you, and a ; have'lof
! Revo'iutionsry Tribunal to judge you. ! jhoft to
" How criirunal, huw ho'l ibje a e the men t j le ma f[
who have prepared and inftij.ated the new hor- r
r . rors which I have described I ' ,*
1 " Brave Warriors, ltejrublieens, Burcliaiets trouc v..
" !of -National Domains, fa thful Funii>ionarie», tion.
' ' good Citizens, in th< name of the Eumflions ing deft
s I that are eutrufted to me, in the name of the du- ments,
, ties that the Nation has imposed upon me, 1 de- tQ
h clare to you—yos a-s betrayed " Theva
fSivntd) "BWLLETJL, 1 n f\^
" Member of the Council of F.ve Hundred " £ " rlL
« It is of importance to ascertain, whether this pity »n
paper really proceeds from tho pen of him wl o is the soli
marked out as its author ?Itis of importance to £ || war
IC enquire, wfcethct a repref ntative of the people is r>j r ; n cr
ro at liberty to diffufa so much of the poilon cf ca ■
lumny againA h's colkaQ,uc», and the whole pa-
I 1" tlonal renref;ntation ? This is a manifctlo against nave m
,e the Ugifiative K.dy. Who will r«f|i«a yo V , ii. their fj
:i - your members set the people an example of con- t >, v
ct tempt ? You owe ito yoor Own dignity to lnfliit Rev y er
upon the writer of this pamphle- ao exemplary
m punilhment- I move that this address, whith I lay
:h up-n the table, be ritfered to a committee of fe- ploits
I ven, which lhall b« direfled to propose to you tk« during
ifh measures of police which ought to be taken against qp ? w<
s i- the author-" ( were t
;ie Sume members—■" Agreed." Dar t a
of The printing of Dupiat's fpeeeh was-moveo. f . .
,j n Hardy.—" There exists in the republic a sac- gaintt
, r _ tion which would usurp every power. Its exsf- means
be tense was doubted when the intrepid Lonvet de- t h<
nounced it at the tribune of the convention. Ro- j r
befpifCTe then had the majority of that assembly ,
' on his fide ; Bailleul then voted with Louvet ' 1
, a They were* both proscribed. 1 (hall not examine i hey
whether we do not now find ourfelvct exactly in a wilh t
cre fimilarfituation, Every thing announce* thw exiT- n g w
tince of a royal and anarchical faAion. Every
thing appeats to be tending to promote the view^
of of this faction, and to overthrow the republic. I I,c
the dc. lart, for my part, that I am entirely of Bnl- not b
ori- leuPs opinion.** * Ciplei
ore « n< i j also," exclaimedTallien, Benta.w le. eglyn
day Jean de Brie, Tons de Verdun, and several others m j
dai- •' There exists in'thithouf. a roya'.ift confpuacy. £
iiefs —fMurmurs.] v ? ,
not Tilien—" 1 deelare it to *ll Frame— ropub.i- b'ldy
all cans cannot express their opinions freely inthi«tr.- weak
ft us hunal without infolted." its to
e its "It is true," exclaimed a number of voters. w ;f e
[Ufy " Let Tallien be silenced I Down with him!—
in J. (A has) ciied several others-
A call of order from all fides. *'?'
a Great agitation appeared in the tribute A it I ill l
" 1 member who was there uled the term Briy<l. And
1 y f Jean de Brie darted from his place, and point-
°, ed out a the author of the inluit.—
[Great agitation.] •
1 !"' c Andre protcfted to his colleagues, thattheyoung tion.
man had not used the word Brigand. .that
lan - fean de Brie—" I heard it-" soldi
I the Here the tumult became more violent in the j
ltors tribune. | UVI
icac. j\ metTcDger deGred she members to leave the
the tribune. , f ~ ar ™
elves <• A black collar has g«t inr:o the tribnne, laid a nd
pes, several membel 4 —" The diiluibaacc is occasioned "pj,,
pur- I by htm," Jtal
IW <•- Eellegar'de, "PSot de Verdun, and feme other
idan- ' members, wi re for bavins 'h® person with the
vrrv ' Hffi '"ttar taken into w,:l
, ycr ' Cadroy—'* / ouid you insult him becaufc he —t
. wears a black soiUr ? ' the
who Andre'de h L-ste, and WiUot—'' Wc also
wear black collar'" . '
V The tumult Increaftid. Separate altercauons °ti|
" t<ro k place in ever, corner the hall. The Pre- refl
, fident put on hi, hat, snd order wasfomewhat t h a
', I;nt eflahliHied. not
have Hardy continited—" I Repeat it : There is no
viev " libcitjs of fpeeeh here « you have fufferedl to I e
" e a P- proposed to you, after a perfidious and fallacious
tore- JeTort, the establishment «f a Counter-revolution- Ita
at as- ar y tribunal in paris ; and it is still under difculT- cO ,
Slaws jeh, whether this outrage (hall be given to the con- p r ,
posed I Hiiution after so many others.—You would havo
is not 1 ,!,e Snccre republican carried before a Royal Fou
k the ouier linville.—Yes! there exists a royalifl.fac- nil
nd its tion in thisalTembly There are traitors amongst us res
crally Andre, and Job Amy—" Name them I Name m
of si- them !" an
vower Hardy. " I (hall name them when th« C r;
c P irl " proper period arrives—when their confpira- wl
'recall cy is ckvcloped.—{Di/lurbance.)—'They ed
which would subvert the government, that they mi
ftituti- might advince themfelve. and their friends. „c
to the With regard to 'the question befsre us, I n e
claim for Bailleul the liberty of publishing w
j,i. sentiment. in the manner he has done.— at
* irrl " Dare you violate th. liberty of the pref. ? I hs
rn one' da not oppose the printing of Duprat's «no- V e
against tion. You have ordered <» ma«y dangerous h(
had a- and ufelefa speeches to be printed, that the a l
1! Let evil i« beyond all remedy ; but I oppose the y,
which appointment of a committee. Do you wi(h rt
mur V' to know what the public will think of this e i
r 'V" committee? I wiU tell you, though it is h
leeches not yet formed. It ii, that the dec.l.on ,s n
of Five made the moment the members ailcmble.— I
•ndertd They are all of one opinion, and that opi- t(
fpeeeh- n i o n is well known. Fifteen hundred com- t l
(Tafiina- m j ttefg Br e formed *f 130 members, and the n
cb have fentilßentl 0 f these priviledged members are
' nto perfedly well understood. We know what e
?LaZ refolutionstheywill propose langbefore they v
rage to ascend the tribune, (f«W murmur,.) I k
itaining move the Order of the day. t
laws for Dumffard—" Acomplainthas been made c
tings be j n th ; s Tribune, of the want of liberty in a
Re ; olu this afiembly. The Speaker has been heard r
rottAed to an e»d. I require no other proof of your r
be con- tolerance' and of your patience. It isppos t
, has its fible that a member fhcsuid speak, not only t
itor. fit with vehemence, but wi}h the moll m.uhing j t
audacity, against the majority of an ]
tternds, b , t0 w hich the greatest refpedt is due tA t
iider the f countC r-revolution has been de- j
. The nounced to you ! Yes, there exists such a ;
remble) system ! Miserable men, whom no expert- ,
'i hey ir- encc can cure, may still wish for the ancient :
rs; and re gimen.—That some, as contemptible tor ,
h cannot f u Hy as their want of resources, may
ided the w[(h t<J e n a bli(h the Throne, I doubt not ;
Vi f /Z but that these persons fhonld be confide, ed
n tod f- a powerful and menacing fafl.on wh.ch
tier.This we ought to dread, is what I cannot con
gents of ceive. Is there not a plan to miilead us ?
ed a gua- j 8 ; t no t probable that this clamour is raittd I
üblicans. to vc il the real and only royal ift faflion we ,
< ! rn,4 ' i °" have to fear—the party of Orleans ? I
served in (| „ yj t not be to t he manoeuvres 01
he re'port this party that «e fhottld attribute this '
I reached continued fyftetr of calumny agamft the .
irft forth Wiflative body, of defamation against it*
them cri- members, those efforts to cunanic the ar- ;
nveniont, mief , an( j t0 stimulate them to turn their j
rrave -"- viftorious arms against their country j a-|
rwillfer' gainlt their fathers, their brothers, their j
J lion, children, who compofc the national guard .
of the interior ? v.V.si are the authors that no a
of these liftfe' intrigues— cj tliefe horrid f.jiounces.
plans ? They are ihofe whose deep and re- j medium
pose is continually interrupted by the moll ) fame me;
horrid and bloody fpeAres—by t'«e fliades * cy ; and
of tl'.ofe whom th«y have massacred. They j ufeiefs.
are those vsHiom remorse tortures, and who < tionaty f
1 have'lofl all hopes of pardon. i. hey ar* fion amo
' those to whom the terrific recollection- of the revol
the mafTacres of September will not allow friends c
repose, and whojwifli to bury their own lirous oJ
, troubles in an universal disorder and defola- publiear
, tion. They are those who have run, spread- Whatey
' ing deftruftinn throughout all the depart- no faifb
" ments, and who have cauftd so mu» h blood march i
" to flow under the axe of the guillotine, ficed;
They are those who, gorged with rapine, remorse
. enriched by tbi fpdto of their vi&ims, dif- pulse of
s phy an i'lfolent aWd fhameful luxury,, whilil lalli
is the soldiers of the country are in the great- cil to f:
0 eft want, wbilft the llogkholders are ex- felf. [
■® piring with misery, whilst the bofpitals re- veral.]
main without funds. They arc those who couucil
ft bave made the revolution merely fubjeci to be cont
ii their fpeeulations and ambition. They are perfion
tho.e whose former offences excite them to which (
new crimes. They are extremely anxious much 1
\ that our brave arm'es, whose brilliant ex- er, in t
«- ploits alone supported the national honour ality-a;
during their infamous tyranny in the inter j- Mie
or, were partakers of their crimes, as if they, ,T
were to ereft, by their own force, a ram- with t
part against tlieir own conscience, and a- citiren
IC , gainst the general hatred. They use every being
tf- means to deceive tbe direftoi jf; who would delibei
ic- be the firft objea of their attack, because not de
iris the constitution and the government » Iha
' they are anxious to,overturn and deflroy. verbal
ine They caress them to affafiinate tbem. They, (hould
wish to mislead the public mind, by colour- .
lif " ing with royalifm whatever shade of differ- witho
;r!r ence there might exist. in our opinions. c
Frenchmen, judge of your reprefentntives, Oilea
til- not by vain declamation, but by their prin- them
ciples of morality. Behold who are your
calumniators, and who we are. Some men, hone,
er :, misguided by tW love for the puhlic good, procu
T ' 9 omplain of the weakness of the legislative Mani
b!i- body—Well ! I regard this pretended as a I
trs- weakness as its true force ; it is a proof of on th
its love for ptaee. Let it continue to make tee,c
wife laws and the members of the gov- Aden
eminent, riotwithftanding the folicita- B r,ci
tipns of the wicked and malevolent who the
A stimulate them, will support each other. mciiE
And permit me since they have here furnifh
ed me with the opportunity, to juflify my- the"
felf from an execrable and horrid imputa-j the i
,ung tion. They have every where reported that ■ D
.that I had applauded the mafTacre of our i }
soldiers at Verona, and you approved this lutic
the impious and abominable sentiment. They forti
the have said, that I had denounced the brave com
army of Italy and its illustrious general, bavi
said and that you had displayed the fame hatred, tect
oaed The motion that I made on the affairs of Ha'
Italy—all those who have heard it, know it, er a
ii the potwithftanding the odious conftruClions ing
whis'h some persons have, fought to give it I n
"e he —this motion, I fay, was only relative to dou
the official correspondence, to the conftitu- the
a tiwial coramunicatipn, which txifls, or the
[•inn, ought to cv.rft, between the executive di- cur
Pre- reftory apd ;he legislative body. I said at but
:what that time, and I repeat it, that war could iho
not be declared, that a treaty could not be cin
,s "J° concluded, without your participation.' wa;
Iciou! Most certainly, the general of the army of out
tit ion- I Italy a&ed very properly in profiting of a ma
ifcuiT- conftituticnnl article, when the blood of bra
t con- p renc hneii was made to flow, to take a just Bu
1 Kou' vengeance. Should I then have blamed
iftfac". him, I, who, as soon as his mauifefto, ter
gftus! reached us, exerted my voice to the utmoll |b<
Name in approbation of his courageous conduft, jly
and which speech you, as it were, confe- o
n th' crated, by ordering it to be printed ? And j lea
fpira- who more than my felf and you have render- tir
They e d justice to our vi£lorious armies ! How lie
tbey many times, on my propoling it, have you mi
iends. not decreed the glorious testimony ? Behold, th
us, I nevertheless, how they accuse us—under th
ilhing what vain and futile pretexts they calumni- pt
me.— ate. us. Representatives of the people, Ito
:fs ? I have perhaps with too much warmth and re
's«no- vehemence repelled the injuries which they I
jerous have heaped upon us, but I have not been m
iat the able to restrain my indignation, and I owe nt
afe the you a free declaration of my fentimcnts, I in
iu wish return to the queflion. I agree on the lib- fc
jf this erty of opinion, to the principles 1
1 it is fyy Hardy ; the forming of a com- ti
ifion is mission ; but I move, when our colleague, tr
ble.— Bailleul, shall return, that he be fummoaed a
it opi- to this tribune, to declare if he be the au -
i com- thor of the pamphlet which you have de- 01
md the nounced ; which I cannot believe. 11
>ers are Thihaudeau —" If I were aware of the
v what existence any faAion or fadious persons
re they within this assembly, I would denounce them
•f.) I by name at this
to fay, that he is' a coward who wouid a£l n
n made otberwife. ,It i 3 not by vague accusation f
erty in »gai{ift the majority that the minority will e
n heard recover their influence ; it is not by recrimi- 1'
of your nation againfl the minority that the roajori- 1
is pof- ty will repel fueh attacks. Put an eud to
lot only this difcufiion, by which neither theroyalifls,
lfulting | nor the partisans of Robtfpierre can be either
i affem- punished or torrefied. It is by the laws
ue? A that we should judge of the legislative body: 1
>een de- it is the nation who (hould judge them. <
such a But, in speaking of a royalist conspiracy, I
experi- they bave accused me, lam a man, and as
ancient such, alive to every injury, and desirous of !
ible for repelling them. , They have spoken of a fal
ls, may laciotos anij infamouj. report, at the conclu
bt not ; fion of which I had proposed the cftablifh-'
nfidered ment of a rfcwputio/isry tribunal: however ,
i which confcioM lamof my innocence, I have con
riot con- fidered myfelfi as alraofl convifted of having
lead us ? made tbe horrible proposition, when I find
!s raised ■ myfelf accuftd by men so verfewin the bufi- I
Jtion we |,nefßof revolutionary tribunals. —:( /i laugh.)
I I have bow only to fay, that if I have pcr
uvres of , million tp speak in this difcufiion, I hope to
ute tliis prove that rfy plans contain nothing but
ainlt the . what is conft/tutional and necefiar);; and 1
jainft its declare, that if in my report, there be apv
; the ar- thing perfidious or fallacious, it belongs to
irn their me, it is I who am responsible for it 5 and
ntry j a- whatever it contains that is good or praiie
ts, their worthy, is the produftion of the whole com
ial guard mittee, As to what cencerns B*ill:eul, I
that noatter.tfon can fee paid to it: lie ™ e . .
.nounces a royalist conspiracy throtigh the vicinity
medium of tfce preft : one might, by the place t
fame means, denounce a contrary confpira- now cit
ey ; and that perhaps will not be entirely cation:
i ufe'efs. If there if- exist a counter-revolu- pro mil'
! tionaty faction, it is,that which sows dm- The
! fion amongst the fir ft and the boft friends of war rai
the revolution ; it is that which divides the bers w
friends of the republic, it is that which is de- ing tht
firous of promoting the deftru£tion of re-
publicans by the hands of republicans.— infurre
Whatever party may triumph, I will be of was t<
no faftion ; the conqueror will not fee me but th
march under hi, ilandard. I (ball -be' facri- ordere(
ficed ; I know it j 'but I shall die without march,
remorse ; I fcall only have followed the ira- which
pulse of my coufcienee." —-( ripplaufc). of l ' ie
Tallica—" I ask permission of the coun- Turke
cil to fay a few words . with refpeft to my- er to t
fclf. [" Tbe order of the day," cried fe- as the
veral.] It is a matter which concerns the fideral
couucil, that one of its members should not the dil
be continually the vi&ipi of the most foul as- Gn
perfions. I am ignorant of the motives place
which can induce them to attack me with so urn is
i much bitterness and :nve£tive. I have nev- as it \
• er, in tlWs tribune, made use of any person- of Jo:
r ality-againft my colleagues." (
Madier—" Against me." Tl
Tallien—" lam continually reproached ed th
- with tbe maflacres of September. Know, dor o
. citizens representatives, that at that peripd, burgl
being secretary of the commune, having no impo
deliberative voice in the council, I dared ntcef
e not denounce there that hoi rid butchery . and«
t if I had not been censured in the process- ferva
r. verbal, and sent hWk again to my bureau, I defti
y (hould have perished the vi£tim of afTaflins. confi
r- At that disastrous epoch, without orders, set o
r- without any official character, I pursued pleni
s. those furious wretches who were gone to
s, Orleans to seek new viftims ; I harrangued R
a- then* at Lanjumeau ; I endeavoured to the i
jr make them return ; I was thrown from my Em]
n, horse, and in danger of losing my life. Made com
d, procurer of the commune, in the r.bfence of offic
ve Manuel, I defended Chenier, denounced pe£\
ed as a Moderc. I ordered the seals to be pat fort
of on the papers of an infurrcftionil commit- upo
ke tee,of which the atrocious Marat was pre-1 fine
, v . fident. I saved the lives of Madame St. witl
:a- Brice and Madame de Tourzel: I went to kno
ho the prisons, though under the most horrid witl
er. menaces ; and those who were confined Edj
(h- there, owe to me their liberty, and perhaps 1
iy. I their life : A member of this council was of j
ta- the uumber of those whom 1 releafcd." I
iat ] Debonnicres —" latteft the faft—lt is I. J
Mr i Tallien. -"lam aecufed of having revo
his lutionized Bourdeaux. If I have not bees
ley fortunate enough to save this important I
avc commune from all the revolutionary horrors, j
jal," have I not H ewnthe greattft courage in pro- j
•ed! testing the unfortunate Perrin Granval ? |
s of Have I not been denounced as the support- I
r it, er and partizan of modcratum, for not hav- J
ions ing destroyed the commerce of this town ? j
eit I might have committed some errors, no J
; to doubt ; I fflight have been hurried away by I
jtn- tbe ardour of some principles ; ,1 might, in j
or the National Convention, perhaps, have con-1
di- curred»in the death of some real patriots ;
dat but such was our fate, that Republicans j
nuld (hould die by the hands of Republicans ; a I (
tbe circumltance much to be deplored, but al-
tion.' ways attendant on great revolutions. With- I
y of out doubt, I have much to expiate ; and j
of a mure than any other person does the remem- I
d of brance of the past affeft and torment me.
i just But why do men who fat by the fide of Ro- j
imcd befpierre—why do men who praised and flat- I
Ifefto tered him in their writings, attribute to me
mod the crime of an error of which they equal-
lu£t, ' ly partook ? Have we not then done enough 1
onfe- i of mifchief ? Is it not time that we should
And j leave off calumuiating each other, and ex
nder-' tinguifh every passion but that for the pub- j '
How lie weal ? I solemnly declare, I never per
. y OU mitted any denunciation, any accusation I
hold, that was not indispensable, and on which j
under tbe fafety, nay the fate of the Republic de-1 ;
,imni- pended. Is it necefTary that I fbojld reply
>le, I to what has been said of my luxury > The
i and realfcftis, I pofTefs nothing, not a sous. I
they I bave the misfortune to be married to a wo- =
t been man who his a large property ; but I have
owe nothing of my own—l have no fear of be- I
iitß, I ingcontradifted. If it were necefiary once I
ic lib- for all, to reply to the calumnies with which |
opted>jl am overwhelmed, this is, I hope the last I _
i com- time I shall have occasion to appear In this I'
rague, tribune, to oscupy your time in fpeakingof ;
neaed my fclf. -■ I ,
,e au- The Council closed tbe difcufiion. The
vc de- order of the day was adopted, on the print- J
ing of the speech of Duprat.
icrfonl FRANCKFOIIT, Sept. g. ■
■ them Last night arrived here the lady of gen.
ite not Hoche with her filler, and gen. Dcbclle the
ild a£l husband of the latter. Gen. Hoche him
ifation felf arrived here this morning. The form
v will er favored us with printed copies of the fol
•crimi- lowing official dispatch which a courier
iiajori- brought yesterday to gen. Hoche.
el ,d to Paris, 18th Frudidor (Sept. 4)
yalifts, in the afternoon.
■ either " Last night the troops gave the iignal
le laws for combat ; the exasperated inhabitants of
body* the fuburba were in arms.. The infpeftois
icm.— of the hall, were arretted, and secured in the
piracy, temple. Not a drop of blood was spilt;
and as 250 deputies afTemblcd in the hall of the
ous of Odeou, and at this very moment the deliber
>f a sal- htions commenced. The grenadiers ofl|ie
conclu- legislative body and the corps of vetcrlns
f invalids) are now filing off before tbe exec
owever utive direftory, and return thanks to it for
ve con- having saved the republic. Cartfotr has
■having made his escape during the night ; Barthel
n I find emy concealed himfelf in his lodgings. Ihe
he bufi- conspirators gnash their teeth with rage, and
laurh.) the republic itands triumphant."
15 v 'P. Barras.
ive per- ....
hope to The general in chief of tht army
ling but of Sambre and Meufe. _ ' „
• and 1 The republican troops exprefied the molt
•'be auv lively jov at this intelligence, and repeatedly
iongs to lbouted, the republic forever! lofig Uve
it ; and Hoche !
oie"com- VIENNA, September 6.
illieul I Gen .'Buonaparte was not at U dine bj r
tlie 28th of lad /south biU &e it ».-d in its
vicinity at the castle of Pafleriarw, .at which
place the imperial plenipotentiaries havealf®
now established their relider.ee. The nego
ciations are faft drawingtoa conclusion, and
promise the moll happy result.
The contradictory reports of peace and
war mutt be chiefly afcribcdto the ftockjcA
bers who by this means succeeded in mak- V
ing the funds alternately rife and fall.
Accounts from Hungary state, that the
infurreftion army [the Hungarian militia]
was to leave their camp to be diflaanded
but that all the men belonging thereto were
ordered to keep in readiness to
in cafe of necefiity, to the place to
which they shall be directed. The militia
of the counties situated in the vici,nity of
Turkey, have received orders to draw near
er to the Turkish frontiers, partly, it is fafd,
.is the number of life frontier troops is con-
Ifidcrably decreased, and partly becaufc of
thcdiltempers prevailing in Turkey.
Great changes are expected soon to take . -
place in our administration. The dire&ori
um is to be suppressed, and the old system so
as it was at the commencement of the reign
of Joseph 11. will be rr-eftabli(hed.
September 13.
The public was several weeks ago inform
ed that Count de CobeifUtl, late ambaffa
, dor of his imp-rial majesty at St. Peters
, burgh, had been appointed to a poll of great
) importance. He ordered every preparation
1 nifceflary for a long journey, to be made,
and eDgaged four cooks and a number of
- servants to attend him ; but the place of his
I destination remained unknown. It is now
confidently asserted that he will in a few days
1, set off for Paris, as his majesty's minister
J plenipotentiary near the French republic,
o ' September 16.
d Reports were circulated this day, that
o the definitive treaty of peace between the
y Emperor and the French republic had been
le concluded ; but this event has not yet been
jf officially n;adc known. It is however, ex
■d pe£ted that the matter will in less than a
3t fortnight be fettled. Yet much depends
t- upon the iffue'of the negoeiatioa at Lisle,
e-1 since our cabinet (lands yet in connection
it. with that of England. It is very well
to know* that France wishes to make peace
id I with us, and to continue the contest with
ed j England alone.
° j 7'retn/Ltrd for the Gazette of the U. States,
„ I From Hamburgh Papei*.
'°* j COPENHAGEN, September 19.
The corsairs of Tripoli, which has declar
,:lt I ed war against the king of Sweden, have al-
I ready taken tkree Swedi(h (hips.
ro " j Letters from Tunis of the 17th July,
j state that the plague has broken out there.
)rt ' I A dragoman of the Danish consulate was a
'aVj I mong the firft vitlisns. 500 Moors have
" * j already fallen viftims to the peftilcace.
b . y v HAMBURGH, Sept. 23.
'J On the nth September the dire£tory
J proposed, in a message, that the emigrants
U ' I who were fhipwrtcked -some time ago, at
" 1 " S j Calais, (hould be transported to a neutral
y I to-rritory. The message was referred to a
j I commiflion.
and PARIS, September 16.
The erdinary expences for the (nh year
p V " amount to 616 millions. Among the rev
gj," "I enues to defray the fame, are noticed, 10
millions contributions of conquered coun
\u\ I tr ' es ' 'S m 'N' ons Batavian refcriptions, &c.
U The iournals are in future to pay aft amp
ouid duty «f,fol per Alert.
The former national lottery of France is
pub ! a ff a ' D t0 re -eftatliflied.
I HAGUE, September 19.
V-°" I A kind of revolution lias broken out in
' de' I a P art t ' le cx ® ert * le 2d battal-
C , , e J ion of the 7th demi-brigade, and a part of
r ,"p, •' I the 2d brigade'has been uddenly debarked.
1C I The i.ft and 3d battalions of the 7th bri-
J ' I gade, were also turned over to the frigates
v „ j and cutters. Admiral de Winter ordered
f be* l^e officers of these battalions, 6n board his
' C I ship, and offered them the alternative of pro
vh'ich 1 " ed ' n S to tbe Weft-Indies, or of giving up
* J a jj j their co:nmiffioiis. Thereupon the officers
j a iked whether there was any ord-tr for their
' f fgoing to the Weft-Indies, and declared that
lif there was, they would obey it. Upon
I which he (hewed them the order, and direc
•„t ~ 1 ted them to explain it to the troops under „
P"" j their command. The coloael went iaimedi-
I ately on board one of the (hips in which
j were 2 companies ; foarce had he begun to
en I sp ea k l ' ,e departure to the Weft-Indies,
w^en the f°W'«r» 6"** t ' ,eir bayonets, and".
, I accused the colonel llrongly as the leader in
form- the whole business. In consequence both
ie sol- companies were immediately set athore, and
ourier a battalion of cKaffeiirs, previously prepared,
with loaded riflts, immediately disarmed
t , \ them. Six of the number, who were ob
' served the moit forward and infolrnf, were
j arretted and threa' :ned with immediate exe
in ' t f 0 f cution, which had .happened to two already,
3e<ftors ft' s not known what took place with tlw;
• n t j ic reft of these two battalions on board the Or
fp jl t . ther (hips.
of the Our minister resident atParre, Mjyer
leliber- ment'o ns > thal so g rea s was tlle confidence
, entertained abroad, of the good success of a
eterans counter-revolution in that letters had
e'exec- been received at Frankfort, directed to tHa
it for daughter of the celebrated Beccaria, in
ot as which the downfall of the French republic,
sarthel- towards the sth of September, was rtat«da»
he unavoidable ; a piece of money was inch fed
and bearing the head of Louis XVIII. with thii
' infcriplion, " Louis XVIII. will pardon,
RAS- when Louit XVI. ffiall be revenged."
T YOLEI
jj e mo st At a reafonablc Rent,
jeatedly may be entered on immediately,
live A ,hrcr - ft, ' r >' brick h . louf -' a:ul 1
° new) conta ning two parlour-, a r-.0-i i.
three jood chambers, &c. situated on Pru-lt, n . f
Piucflreet.
Apply no, r C 3i t Srrrt.
dine b; r novembcr»». j 1Xiji ©alette. I
s
PHILADELPHIA, c
THURSDAY EVKNJN(J v NOVEMBER ij. t
C * 0 N G R E S S. c
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, F
WHDNIiSDAy, NOV. 22.
Mr. Lyman presented a memorial from C
DaviA. Ames and Robert Orr, of the b
Springfield Manufactory of Arms, praying i
for an allowance of rations—Referred to the
•Secietary at War. *
Mr. R bed presented a petition from Ja- 1
bez Hb.U, for relief on account of a certifi- 1
cate which had been destroyed by fire. n
Mr. Elsundorph also presented peti- "
tions from Jacob Hofbiook and George c
Frost the former to have certificates fund
ed which had not been presented in time, J
and the latter for a newjand warrant for one L
which he had loft. , f
The above petitions were referred to the j
committee of claims ; as was also that of
Frederick Cyrus, presented yesterday. 1
" Mr. Findley presented the memorial of *
Benjamin Wills, collefter of revenue, who
states, that in the years 1791, 179 2 > 1 793 j
and 1794, and particularly in the lalt year, v
he had been greatly obilrufted in the per- «
formance of his duty by persons opposed to
the laws which he had to execute, by which t
he had experienced considerable loss and in- t
jury. He acknowledges having received
from the commissioners, in purfuancc of the ; I
aft passed on this fubjeft, upwards of Soo
dollars, but this sum being inadequate to his r
conopenlation, he prays for further relief. t
Mr. Findley moved that this memorial, '
being i Angular ease, and the petitioner be- «
ing in town waiting the iflue of his applica- c
tioii, should be referred to a feleft commit- '
tee. This motion wa6 fecomkd by Mi - . 1
Hartley, and opposed by Melfrs. C,oif
Macon, who were.of opinion that the b'jli- 1
liefj would come- properly nnder the cogiti- j
nance of the committee of claims, and that
it was deferable, in order to preserve an uui
formi'-y in their proceedings, to have this
and'all other claims referred to the ftand
ijg committee. Mr. Macon therefore mov- t
ed that this petition should be referred to 1
the committee of claims ; but, at the re- *
quest of Mr. Hartley hoth motions were <
withdrawn, and the petition was ordered to
lie on the table. Mr. Findley gave notice
be should call it up to-morrow.
A mefTage was received from the Senate,
informing the house, that the Senate had
formed a quorum, and that they had elefted
Mr. Read president pro tern.
Mr. Williams moved that a committee
be appointed jointly with to be appoint
ed by tha Senate, to wait upon the Presi
dent of the United States, to inform him
that quorums of both houses are assembled,
and are ready to receive any communications
which he may think proper tomake to them.
The motion was agreed to, and Messrs.
Otis, Rutledge and Dawfou were appoint
ed a commiitee for the purpose.
Mr. Rutubge presented a memorial ,
from the merchants of Charleston, complain- 1
ing of the operation of a law for the regu
lation of the ouftom-houfe at that place, by
which the "olleftor is to cause to be weigh
ed by his own officers, all goods and wares
imported, which were hrretofore weighed
by the proprietors of the wharves, who
kept persons for the purpose, and which ad
ded considerably to the value nt the private
property of individuals owning t.ne said
wharves: they Hate this grievance to have
put them to great inconvenience, and pray
for redress Referred to the Secretary of the
Treasury.
Mr. Coit observed that there were in his
opinion, some inconsistencies in the aft for
the encouragement and protection of the
ufeful arts. By this act, any person fvvear
ing that he is the inventor of any improve
ment, and paying the expence of the patent,
may obtain one ; ancl|ifai~.y person infring
es it, he ha 3 his remedy by suing him- Ihe
general scope of the aft did not go to define
who wss the real inventor ; this was left to
be determined. In the former aft on this
fubjeft, certain of the heads of the depart
ments were to determine whether any objeft
proposed for a patent was really a new in
vention. In looking farther into the aft he
found two clauses which he thought incon
fi4e-n't with the general tenor of the law
[these he read] and therefore moved that a
committee be appointed,to enquire whether
any, and if any, what alterations are ne
cessary to be made in the said -.ft.
Agreed and a committee of three mem
bers appointed. \
A mefTage was received from the Senate,
informing the house that they concurred
with them in the appointment of a commit
tee to wait upon the President, and that
they had appointed Meflrs. Bingham and
Tracy, a committee on their part.
On motion of Mr. Harper, the report of
the committee of revifal and unfinifhed busi
ness w?.s taken up, and the following reso
lution having been read, was agreed to .
« That all petitions depending and un
decided upon at the second session of the
fourth Congress, and at the last session,
ought to be taken up and aftcd upon by the
House, as the fame may be called for by any
ipember, or upon application of the indi
vidual clmfpant or petitioner.
Mr. Harper then observed thatamongtt
the unfiniflicd business, there was a report
oh the petition of Henry Hill, which was
favorable to the petitioner. He wished, as
the business had already been long before
the house, to have it early decided upon,
and wouldjmove therefore that it be referred
to a eommittee oftbewhole house. Agreed,
and made the order for Monday.
< A mefTage was received frcm the senate,
informing the house, that they had agreed
to a resolution for the appointment of two
chaplains, one for each house, to interchange
weekly and that they had appointed on
their part Bilbop White.
Mri Livingston fdid, amon;»fl the un- v
finifhed business, hs found a bill for the 1
relief of refugees from Canada sod Nova t
Scotia. He wilhed it to be referred to a t
committee of the whole. Agreed and made t
the order for Monday. t
Mr. Harper observed, that rovyards the r
close of the last session, a very di ft reding j
cafe was brought before the house, and t
postponed for want of time ; he meant that > {
of Antonia Carmichael, widow of William \
Carmichael. He moved that that report r
be referred to a committee of the whole, r
Agreed for Tuesday. t
Mr. Otis, from the committee appoint- t
ed to wait on the President of the United
States, reported that they had attended to c
the service, and that the President had fig- t
nified to them that he would make a com- a
munication to them to-morrow at twelve 1
o'clock in the representative chamber. <
Mr. Livingston said, there <v3s a re- i
port of a feleft committee on the operation t
of the aft for the relief and protection of '1
American Teamen, which included the sub- 1
jest of an establishment of a marine hofpilal, ;
snd other important matters. He wished 1
this fubjeft referred to a eommmittee of the <
whole. Agreed for Tijefday. i
Mr. A< Foster moved that a report of (
last session on the petition of George Cur- t
wen Ward, ke referred to tly committee of 1
commerce and manufaftures. Agreed. '
On motion of Mr. Coit, the report on j
cafe of North and Beazy, was referred 1
to a committee of the whole for Tuesday. 1
Mr. Venable thought it not right that ]
hufinefs which was pertcftly new to many <
members, should be thus referred to com
mittees of the whole. He did not think
the resolution of the committee of revifal i
and unfinifhed business went so fur. He 1
thought it meant only that the pttitidns
and reports should be taken up and read, '
and then difpof*d of as the house fiionld
think proper.
The speaker decided that the order taken
was agreeable to the reported refolation of
the committee of revifal and unfinifhed bu
siness, which had been agreed to.
Adjourned.
The members attending to day for the
firft time were ; in the house of represen
tatives, Messrs. Sitgreaves and Bard, from
this state ; in the senate, MeflVs. Jackson
and Anderfon, from TenefTee, and Mr.
Chrpman, from Vermont.
PRESIDENT'S speech.
* s
this da r,
At Twelve o'Clocl, the PRESIDENT of
the United States, met both Houses of Con
gress, in the Chamber of the Representa
tives, where be addressed them in the follow
ing
SPEECH.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemen of the House of Representatives,
I was for some time apprehensive, that
it would be necessary, on account of the
contagious fickncft, which afflifted the city
of Philadelphia, to convene the National Le
gillature at some other place ; this measure
it was desirable to avoid, because it would
occasion much public inconvenience, and a
eonfiderable public expence, and add to the
calamities of the inhabitants of this city,
whose fufferings must have excited the fyni
pathy of all their fellow citizens ; therefore,
after taking meafurs to ascertain the state
and decline of the sickness, Ifoftponedmy
determination, having hopes, now happily
realized, that without hazard to the lives
or health of the members, Congress might
affemWe at this place, where it was next
by law to meet. I submit however to your
confederation, whether a power to pofipone
the meeting of Congress, without palling
the time fixed by the Coxftitution, upon
such occasions, would not be a ufciul amend
ment to the law of one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety four.
Although I cann»t congratulate you on
the re-eftabUfhment of peace in Europe, and
the restoration of security to the persons,
and properties of our citizens from injufticc
and violence at sea ; we have neverthclefs
abundant cause of gratitude to the source
of benevolence and influence, for interior
tranquility and personal security, for propi
tious seasons, prosperous agriculture, pro
ductive fifheries, and general improvements ;
and above all, for a rational spirit of civil
and religious liberty, and a calm but steady
determimtiv<n to support our sovereignty, as
well as our moral and religious principles
against all open and secret attacks.
Onr envoys extraordinary to the French
republic embarked one in July, the other
early in August, td join their colleague in
• Holland. I have received intelligence of
the arrival of both of them in Holland, from
1 whence'they all proceeded on their journeys
to Paris, about the 19th of September.
F Whatever may be the result of this mission,
- I trull that nothing will have been omitted
- on my part, to cont'.ift the ntgoeiation to a
fuccefsfulconcluGon, onfuchequitableterms,
- as may be compatible with the fafety, hon
: or, andintereft of the United States—Noth
, ing in the meantime, will contribute so much
eto preservation of peace, and the attain-
Y ment of justice, as a manifeftati«n of that
- energy, and unanimity of which on many
former oceafions, the people of the United
I States have given such memorable proofs,
t and the exertion of those resources for na
s tional defenfe, which a beneficent providence
s has kindly placed within their power,
e It may be confidently afTerted, that noth
,, ing has occured, since the adjournment of
J Congress, which renders, inexpedient, those
I, precautionary measures, recommended by
me, to the confederation of the two houses,
:, at the opening of your late extraordinary
d session —lf that system was then prudent, it
o is more so now, as increasing depredations
e strengthen the reasons for its adoption
ti Indeed, whatever may be the ifiue of the
negocfation with Frar.ce, and whether thf
war in Europe or is not tq eo'ntinti?, 11
hold it'mc'.l ci :taio, thrt perraine. t Wasi-. Ms
quility and-ordtr wtß no; soon
the ftstc of focjetjr hos so!-. ~ b:en difl-v.rfi
ed, the sense of moral and religious obliga
tion so much weakened, public faith, qnd G
national honor have been so impaired, res- • ge
pest to treaties, has been so diminiflied, and of
the law of nations has loft so much of its ■ di
force ; while pride, ambition, avarice, and or
violence,havebeen so long unrellraincd, there th
remains no reasonable ground, an which to ar
raise an expeftation, that a commerce with- th
out proteftion, or defenfe will not be plun- d<
dered. it
' The commerce of the United States is fil
essential, if not to their existence, at lead
to their comfort, their growth, prosperity fc
and happiness ;—The genips, character, an
and hibits of the people are Highly commer- fie
cial, their cities have Wen formed, and ex- fu
ift'upoa commerce ; otir agrioulture, fifh- th
cries, arts and rranufaft nreff, are connefted pi
with and depend upon it; in (liort, com- bi
merce has made this country what it is ; b}
and it eannot be, destroyed or negltfted, b<
vithont involving the peopl-" in poverty and in
diftreft ; —great numbers are directly and oi
solely supported by navigation ; the faith hi
of society is pledged for the preservation of th
the rights of tommercial, and sea faring ; ce
no less than of the other citizens ; under this ce
view of our affairs, I (hould hold myfelf fr
guilty of a negleft of duty, if I forbore to j
recommend, that we fliould make every j qi
exertion to proteA our commerce, and to | fn
place our eountry in a suitable poßure of l ai
defenfe, as the only sure means of preferv. j q<
ing both. ' j f«
I have entertained an expeftation, that j ai
it would have been in my power, a» the I ei
opening of this ftflion, t<6 have communica- j S
ted to you, the agreeable information of: h
the due execution of our treaty with his e
Catholic Majesty, refpefting the withdiaw- j d
ing of his troops from our territory, and h
the demarcation of the lineof limits, but by C
the Inteft authentic intelligence, Spanish
garrisons, were ft ill continued within our ri
country, and the running of the boundary tl
line, had not been commenced, these cir- y
cumftances are the more to be regretted, as t;
they cannot fail to affeft the Indians in a
manner injurious to the United States, still v
however, indulging the hope, that the an- c
fwers which have been given will remove the f
objeftions, offered by the Spanish officers n
to the immediate execution of the treaty, e
I Cave judged it proper that we (hould con- r
tinue in readiness to receive the pods, and e
to run the line of limits—further informa- c
tion on this fubjeft will be communicated si
in the course of the feflion. f
In conneftion with this unpleasant (late d
of things, on our western frontier, it is- u
proper for me to mention, the attempts of o
foreign agents to alienate the affeftions of v
the Indian nations, and to excite them ten
aftual hostilities agaiuft the United States ; r
great aftivity has been exerted by those 1
persons, who have insinuated themselves a
mong the Indian tribes, residing within the i
territory of the United States, to influence j
them to transfer their affeftions and force to
a foreign nation, to form them iotft • ion- <
federacy, and prepare them for war agaiuft
the United States. Although measures j
have been taken to counteract these infrac- j
tioitß of our rights, to prevent Indianhhost
tilitics, and to prcferve entire their attach- \
ment to the United States, it is my duty to t
observe that to give a better effeft to these (
rtieafures, and to obviate the consequences ,
of a repetition of fiich praftlce3 a law pro- t
vidiug adequate pjinifhment for such offen- j
ces may be necessary. ;
The commissioners appointed under the
fifth article of the Treaty of Amity, Com- •
merce and-Navigation, between the United
States and Great Britain, to ascertain the
river, which was truly intended under the
name of the river St. Croix mentioned in the
treaty of peace, met at Pafiawaquaddy bay
in October, one thonfancl feveu hundred and
ninety fix, and viewed the mouths of the
rivers in question, and the adjacent shores
aRd Islands, and being of opinion, that ac- 1
tual surveys of both rivers to their sources
were necessary, gave to the agents of the j
two nations inftruftions for that purpose,
and adjourned to meet at Boston in August :
they met, but the surveys requiring pore
time than had been fuppofefl, and not being
then compleated, the commissioners again
adjourned to meet at Providence, in the (
State of Rhode Island, in June next, when
we may expeft a final examination and deci
sion.
The Commiflioners appointed in purfu
ance of the sixth article of the Treaty, met
at Philadelphia in May lad, to examine the (
claims of Biitiflv fubjefts, for debts contrast- ,
ed before the peace," and still remaining due
to them from citizens, or inhabitants of the
United States. Various causes have hither
to prevented any determination, but the
business is now resumed. and doubtless will
be prosecuted without interruption.
Severel decilions on the claims of citizens
of the United States, fpr losses and dama
ges sustained, by reason of irregular, arid
illegal captures or condemnation of their
vessels, or other property have been made
by the commissioners in London, conform
ably to the seventh article of the Treaty—
The sums awarded by the commissioners
j have been paid by the British government,
I a considerable number of other claims, where
j costs and damages, and not captured proper
! ty, were the only objefts in t}ueflion, have
! j been decided by arbitration, and the sums
! ewarded to the citizens of the Uuited States
have also been paid.
The commissioners appointed, agreeably
p to the tweuty-firft article of our Treaty
. with Spain met at Philadelphia, in the sum-
I mer palt, to examine and decide on the
cWims of our citizens for losses, they have
' sustained in consequence of their vessels and
cargoes, having been taken by the fubjefts
5 of his Catholic Majesty during the late war
between Spain and France their fittings j
. have been interrupted, but are new refu-1
5 ir.ed.
» r*^«
i \ i• if , .. .
V._T . . i. - - • ' ' - '' ; ' • • ' ' ''" ■"
■ s hlH.liileJ ';> v ' :
of the capture of .\nu - •' • is,:> ;
' dize, taki'i t!iin t'n..' limit; .m ! . : , - ■
on of til'- United States, and brought iu;-o j
\ their ports, or by v;!T-ls origina'ly | :
armed in ports of the United .States, upon
the award? of the coinmifiio iers, acting un
der the fevrmh article of the fame Treaty,
it is weeeiTary that pvovifion be made for fill- ,
filling these obligations. ,
The numerous captures of American vef- j i
fek by the cruizers of the French Republic,
and of fume by those of Spain, have occa- '
j fioued cor.fiderable expences in making- antl
| supporting the claims of our citizens, before
' their tribunals—the films required for this (
purpose have in divers instances, been dis
bursed by the Consuls of the Uniced States ;
by means of the fame captures, great num
bers of our feamcn, have been thrown ashore
. in foreign countries, destitute ©f all mean*
of fubftftence, and the iick in particular
have been exposed to grievous fufferings—
the Consuls have in these cases also advan
; ced monies for their relief ; for these advan
i ces, they reasonably expfeft reimburfemeflts
: | from the United States.
> I The consular aft relative to seamen re
' ! quires tevifion 3nd amendment ; the provi
i ! fion for their support is foreign countries,
F ■ and for their return, are found to be inade
- j quale and ineffectual. Another provision
j seems necessary to be added to the consular
: j aft ; some foieign vefTels have been difcov
: ered failing under the flag of the United
- i States, and with forged papers ; it seldom
f: happens that the Consuls can deleft this dc
-5 ception, becanfe they have no authority to
-j demand aa infpeftiou of the registers and sea
1 ! letters.
' Gentlemen of the Monfe of Reprefntativer,
> It is my duty to recommend to your fe
r rious confideratioi, those objefts, which by
t the constitution, are placed particularly
- within your sphere, the national debts and
> taxes.
i Since the decay of the feudal system, by
1 which the public defence was provided for,
• chiefly at the expence of individuals, the
t Tyllfm of loans has been introduced ; and as
s no nation can raise, withia the year, by tax
, cs, fufficient sums for its defence and milita
ry operations in time of war, the sums loan
-1 ed, and debts contraftcd have necefTarily be
- come the fubjedts of what have been called
1 funding systems ; the consequences arising
from the constant accumulation of public
5 debts, in other countries, ought to admonish
s ■ us, to be careful to prevent their growth in
f our own—the national defence must be pro
f vided for as well as the support of govern
e men:, but both (hould be accomplished as
; much as pofliblc by immediate taxes, and as
e little as pofliblc by loans.
The estimates for the fervi«e of the ensu
e ing year will by my direftion be laid before
t you. !
3 Gentlemen of the Senate, and
- Geutlemen of the House of Reprefentgtives,
t Wt are met together at a rnoft interesting
s period ! Tlie fmntions" of the principal
> powers of Europe, are lingular and porten-
I- tous : connected with Tome by treaties, and
i- with all by commerce, no important event
o there, can be indifßrjiit to us : Such cir
c cumftances call with peculiar imoorlunity,,
■a not less for a disposition to unite, in all those
>- measures, on which the hosour, fafety, and
i- prosperity of our country depend, than for
all the exartions of wifdotn and firmnefs.
e Tn all such nieafures, yon may rely on my
zealous and hearty concurrence.
d JOHN ADAMS.
i* Untied States, 1
November 22, 1 797. j
5 SALT ¥ WINE, "
ie AT AUCTION.
Forfait all o'clock,on Saturday morniugntst,
> on Mortr n*s whirs, for approved in dor fed no'es
»s at 60 day*» about 3,100 bufhcllj Cadiz Salt, from
on board the FoUcre .St. Doruirgo, in lot*, of 200
buihkls; alio, 24 cailcs of good Sherry Wine.
Footman i*f Co. Auftioneers.
' .
s Sale of an elegant Country Seat
" AT- A U C T I 0 N.
' e On WtDNtsDAT evening next, the inft. at
n the Mcrchantf' CoflVe-hoUfe,
i- WILL BE SOLD,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
" ft,, r y li ick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. fituatt on the Iriih traa lane, in the
16 townlhip of Muyamenfiiig, about one Hiile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
ie he ni 'He known upon application *t the office of
, e the Philadelphia Gazette, or at the Audion Room
. of the fuhferiber.
Tlie improvcinents upon this place, for tatte and
ie cl.-euncc, liatld unrivalled,
ill • Juhn Connelly, /lud'r.
novtmler 2J. t5
us
j. NOW LANDING,
id At South-street Wharf,
' r 7he Cargo of the Ship Goncord,
■« Captain Thompson, from Bnavia
Ahout 300 tons firft qtiali'y Java Coffey (the
■' whole havinpbeen felcdled)
IO legures of old Arrack
111 Nutmegs, Mace and Clove's
re for sj/.b nr
:r- PETER BLIGHT.
ve Who also offers Far Sale,
ns Just landed from ship Amity, from Jamaica,
es aos hhd« Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
,ly novemHtr a.l.
All Persons who are indebted to
h» the estate of William Hevsham, fen. 0: Vhi'.a
delphia. deceased, ar« rer.iu ficd te make speedy
lVe payment; and those who have any demand! a
nd gainst said pl.- f. to i-refent them.pro
fts pcrly attcAed. to the fuUcribers.
;ar ' William Heyfbam, 1
igs Rokrt Heyjham. , V Executors,
fu- Francis Say re, J
I , A za-A4W
• - ' ■} A
1 !' J r ■ t. ■ ■ ;.■, *-:r<,,i i\] tci :Ji
Ir ■■ i-h .Sept,
,e:on-f v. i C, n's anivci r.t
ux, in io ■!ivs.
S.ik.ri, INo-j 8.
Os Saturday arrived hr.-g. I, pur.l, capt Pin
na:;;, froio IfVs of Inance l>.tiii|jon, jio
(.1.1-,\-< i .11 I C I.itlci . lit COi:)wiUl)jV:ii'.a the fol
i.;u:ng jriiclci.
( lie Convention of the Ifte of Ff:::c? hav«
laid 4 duiy of. S per rent, on all
with a duty of ha i a dollar j ton on all foreign
veil,-is whuli took p'ece July I
Th;- ; i*t"< h ex.nri'Jr ail fif-'jtral vylvch
call at the ]fie of l-rance wilh the greattltllrifl
nefs. A Ihip under h'ueJilh came into
Port N. W c-lt from Bengal, in order to
some hallaft, and a frefh lupply of provifiors
ami water; fhc vas lilnlled trie;, and condemn
ed, veflel and cargo. A Daniifi bark arrived
jm; id from Copenhagen, w hi;:h had called at
the Cape of Go.id Hope the captain and officers
werr put on board the prilon Ihip, and the ves
sel's h-.tchways lealed up.
July 10, there wive at the Hie ot France three
Aoi.t frigates, two of whictf had lately arrived
from a cruifc, in which they had taken nnrhiig.
There were fame pi i. ateers out, which had
heen more fureefsful, having fentin fcveral priz
es, One prize fliip arrived the day the Leopard
failed, and another wassnamently expeiled.
S-iled from-the 1 fie of France. —June IJ,
Baik Sally, Webb, of Salem, for Bengal. —Ju-
ly r, Ship~Seafiower, Colrvian, of Philads'phia,
and Bri;; Hopr, Well, of Salem, for Bengal
j July 3, illip Afctnllon, Chafe, of R. Island, for
Africa. —July 5. filipTJancy, Butler of New-
York, for Bttavia. —July 24, Oiip John and
Richard, Newland of Philadelphia for Europe.
Arrived —July 13, Capt. Cartvmghr, in a
(hip from ly'aiuiiLket, after a long pailage of 9
or io mor.thi.
Ne<vu Bed/ird, Nov. 8.
Arrived, fc:p Columbia, Clalby from a whale
voyage ; 400 bbls.wlule and joo fpernn. —Capt.
Clafby has handed us the fallowing lift of vefl'cla
left
In Dvlagoa-Bay, September ,1 ft.
whale, fper.
Sarah, Handy, New-Bedford, 1000 50c
Commerce,. Toby, do. 100 a 300
Rebecca, Gardner, do. 500 400
Fox, Whippy, da. Cjo zso
V- Swain, Nantucket 730 270
Edward, Coffin, do. *SO 450
In YYolwich-Bay, September ifl.
Belonging to Nantucket Capt. G. Pollardi
1700 bbls.—D. Barsard, 13:0 —V.Swain, 1300
A Barnard, ztco —J Allen, ia;o—Zenas |Cof
fin, 1100—M. Mckenzie, 500 —R. Long, 350
fin, 500 bbls.
Lat. ii, it>, long. 54, 30 fpokefqhonner Han
nah, Hall, j8 days frcm Middletowp (Con) *
hound to Guadaloupe, had loft 10 head of cat-'
tie, been calm 1 % days, had 6 hhds. water, and
7 bundles of fcay.
Odlober 7th. Arrived at Nantucket, schoon
er of this port, Gardner, from a Bohemia
whale voyage, 35 bbls, 14 days pad killed a
ico bbl. while, which he fesured for 4S hours,
when both cables parted.
Bojlon, Novtniler 15.
This dSy arrived, Ihip Merchant, Bates,
41 d.ys from Lundon, 36 from landt end.
Long. 11, lat. 50, was boarded dy a French
privateer of 42 guns, papers and role d' e
quipage examined, treated politely and dis
missed—same privateer had boarded the brig
Lucy of Orrington, from Brittol bound t®
Boston, was diftnifled after putting on boardi
6 Englilh prisoners. Oft. 13, lat. 48, 35,
long. I&, 26, spoke brig Nancy, Grant>
10 days from Briflol for Roflon. Oft. 11,
lat. 48, long. 20, spoke LMary, Daw>
son, from Hamburgh bo«nd to Philadelphia
who had spoke the fchr. Catherine, Cocks,
26 days from Marblehead for Hamburgh.
Spoke on the Grand Banks, brig George,
frou Liverpool.
Cabin Paflcngers—Mi'fs Smith, M«(Trs.
Jolin Avery,, David Hiukley, and Peter
Richardfsn, of Bofton—capt. Robcrtfon,
of Portland and John Spencer of New-Yorfci
Steerage Paflengers-—Mrs. Stoaks and
four children ; Mr. Garir, wife and twq
children ; Mr. Martin and Mr. Pitts.
Brig Success, Girdler, Hamburgh, 56
days.
Brig Brothers, Collins, Bourdeaux, 40
days, with several French paflengers.
Schr. Nancy, Halkill, Malaga, 43 dayn,
—Sailed day before the Atlanta.
A fchr. from Halifai; 6 days paflage ar
rived last evening. Also, a fchr. from Am'-
Iterdara, 76 day* paflage j a brig, captain
Smith, from Liverpool, 39 days, and- two
other brigs from Lisbon and Bourde^us—•
names not afcertaioed.
BALTIMORE, November 21.
Yesterday arrived Ihip Adelaide, captain
Mann, from Rotterdam, which she left the
28th of September. By |the Adelaide we
have received a number of late papers, from
which we promise ourselves tht pleasure of
laying something new before our reader*,
as scon as traaHations can be made.
Mr. Pintkney and Mr. Mar/hall, fat out
from Rotterdam for Paris, on the 19th Sep
tember. The fame day Mr. Gerry arrived
at Rotterdam, and a few days after left (hat
place for Paris. A Paris article of the 28th
September, announces the arrival there of
the three An /rican Commiflioners.
-i .
* N OTIC E.
To holders of J AMES GREENLEAP,
and EEDWARD FOX'S Engagements
IN cosfequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable tircumflances fronr.
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to fortntr
ictice. The Trustees now inform them, they
ire ready to ifluc the fame to those whoraay «p
---' plv wiihin fixtydays, at No. 8 CHefnut Street,'
and those vho do.not, will'be csnfidercd a* re
'inquilhrng their claim on th- - Aggregate l 7 und,
provided for their payment.
HENRY i- '-.TT,
THCMAS W.
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKfi.t
•ev:wb:-r, i.-,. iuth&fia.Catial Lottery-—--No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, tlitz,oih
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at W«. BLACKBURN'* Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten '
DMarj, whete check books are kept ior register
ing and examining in these, the City of Walhing- J
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where ticki;tsmay be hadin mpllof theLotte- '
ries aufhorifed by law im any of the States of the 1
Union.
N. B. The business of a Bkokex, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, 1
difcounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedish barque Gnflavus Adolphus,from ,
Marseilles, confilting of the following articles, ,
is di' * irging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for ,
sale by the fuhl'cribert 1
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, j & 4th proof 1
Claret, in hogsheads <
Ditto, in cases <
FYontijmac Wine, in cases ef 30 bottles 1
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baflcett<?f6 1
and si bottles
Captrs '
6,iv;s '
Aitnonds J
Wriring Paper '
tTmlire'.las (Silk) of 28, and 32 inches
fineries ' [ I
Long and Ihort white Kid Glo\*s for Women ;
SiiU Stockings | f
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of M«draf« I j
Artificial Fiov.-ers and Garlands [,
OUrich Feathers J B
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream-Tartar. "|
BENJAMIN MORGAN & J
ROBERT ANDREWS. *
September 27. eotf i
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUN G,
Ko. ?2, Seeond-flreet, cornsr of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large affcrt- a
ment of Englijh, Frenck, Latin and Greet
SCHOOL BOOKS Alfa, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATX LY PUBLISHED, C
Sheridan's Dictionary, the lixth edition, in odc tl
hirge>vol. 8 vo- price 3 dols. Si
Ditto, large 12 mo pries 1 dol. 75 ctt. n
Ditto, common, price I dol. JOcts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and fu
■writing Paptr j Bookbinder's Boards, Paftehoards, u:
fiieathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks, li
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, aud other articles, ef p<
the bed quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
Catalogues'of a mifeellaneous colleAian of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above-. OA. 24. —3aw6w
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE, -
loe Hogflieads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port Wine - B
OoX 17. t/iwlf
_ x
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other fn
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
1 Fiom Bby 6t019 by 14, 1,1
By the lingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the at
store of the Subscribers, cotnci ot Arch and Front- w
street,
James C. & Samuel W, Fijher. ' u
PJiiladelphia, June 9, 4 Slwmwfif
Thomas Herman Leuffer, *
North Fifth ftreat,*- ner of North alley, No. 34, ar
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red Wine indafesand r
boxes, fix years old ,
White Graves Wine in cafv
Ticklenbtirgs 81
Ruflia Sail Clcths 1
Ravens Duck A
Bag Linen
Hcflians
Diaper aud Table Cloth
Empty bags '
Common German Clnth I 1
A :> alTcrtment of black coloured Ribbon* r
Fine German Laces '
About twelve tons RufTta clean Hemp
Clovsr Seed
Italian Soap, in fmaH boxes, for family use
Window Olafs Aug. 29.— law
Fur lale or to be let on ground- ]
rent, m
A valuable Lot of Ground ; c|
SITUATE on the north-eaftcorner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Koufe square. This lot is fifty-one fee* front jj e
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen e j
feet and in half on Fifth street; there ace at mc
present two small two story brick houses, and a t hi
number ef small tenements thereon. thi
AlJb, for Sale, at
Two three story Brick Houses oe
With convenient stores, wharf, See. situate on
Water-Ilreet, between Mulberry and Safiafras Sts
streets, containing in front on Water street sis- ur;
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eaft
war<l ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses >*'
avc the convenience of a public alley adjoining f0
on tbe north fide, and axe: a. very desirable fitua- tcl
tion for a merchant, flour fa£lor,or others who ];/
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable torms w ';
iorcafh. For further information apply to the rer
printer. tbe
July 31. m&wtf un
This Day is Published,
BY Mess. Bobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice and the
other Book fellers, ' _ '
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, %
F.hgant'y printed on tVove paper, and blot- C ■
Prejfed, a s
By John Thompson, 0 f
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF b»i
The Constitutions
eve
Of the several States with each other, and with La
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables, da}
the prominent features of eaeh Conftit«tion,,and
elarnng together their raoft important provisions, j
under the several heads of aiimfaiftration ; with ]
Notes and Observations. u
B 7 WILLIAM SMITH, Tu '
Of Svulh Carolina, cee
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the *""•
UnitcdStates. day
Dedicated to tl)» People of the United States. tr ' c
N. B. A few Copies printed 011 an fnferior pa- froi
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar. fsm
February si »iwf phi
French Circulating fJh>'ary.
h JOSEPH E, G. M. D- I,r* G* INGE,
lt No. it- Walmit-ftrcct,
y JNTORMS thott who wifli to r;cur to th; only
JL means of becoming pcrfcA in the Vreiich Lan
g'J -I?~. that he Jus just Opened hiri Libx a* y, cori-
Siting of upwards of 1150 volumes the he.! cal
r _ cuhted to ufTord either ufefui inflniCliop, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a
of the Library, may be seen at every book-f'ellrr's
' e m town.
N. b. All translations frcm and into the French,
j Englilh and Spanish Languages, executed with ac
t curaty and difpatcb. coi:n no-u. TC.
>} LAW BOOKS,
' Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Bookfsllcrs,
No. Is, South Second, ami No. 50, Market street,
HAVE juftrecfivej hy the late arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
n tion, coufiftingof a variety of the latest and most
! > approved Law Boots, whicb: added to thole alrea
"" dy on hand, forms the mod eitenfive colleiftitn ev
er off'eredfor fa'ein this country. They theirfore
if beg leaveto notice, that from the nature of their
conncAicnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrilh
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latest
6 publications.
Vcfey, jini'rs Reports in Chancery, 2 V.lfc
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius; Ridgrway's Report,
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Eloyer's ProAere
Practice in the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit" in Equity; Tidd's PraAice of
the Court of King's Bcneh in Personal AAions, 2
i part* co.nplete ; Wiro 1 Law of Nations; Cruise
i on Uses ; modern Reports, 1} voJ«. London edi
j tion.
| H. and P. Rici c*peA t« receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6tl» vol. complete of
1 Durnford and Eall't Reports, the 2d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
Haw publications.
June 26.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZfcCHA-
Riah Poulson, jun. No. So, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptioni will continue
to b« received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work it ready for the fubferibera.
July 18. tawtf
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
; And for file by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED,
Cenfifting of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces'for
: the InftroAion and amufenient of YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely priotcdand boand
np ia two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally efleemed one of the moll valuable pub
lications th.t can be put int« the hands of young
purloni.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how tu (hoot.
To pour tke frelh inftruAion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in. the glowing breaA."
Thomson.
Augu/l »4. mwfjw
THrs D AY IS PUBLI3HJID,
By THOMAS I)0B30S, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between fevenl Young Ladiei, on improving and in
tereftmg fubjeAs.
Tratiflated from tke Ditch of Madame dt Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Pi inted on fine pilfer, and neatly bound,
Price •ni dollar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tiles ef extraordinary diftraft, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " h|rrow up the foul," and
which it would b« for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little boifc femes forward to fo
lic!: notice, where, in a variety nf incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real lift, the proper, becffufc
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
AaraHer is exhibited in an interefling point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publiiier was fomuch pleafedwkh the per»-
sal, that he was persuaded he Ihould do a pleasing
ferviee to the community by fending it into circu
lation. Aaguft 24 —mw4w
Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above aA may be had aj
he Office of the Cazetteof the Vnited Spates, No.
t i9, Chefnut-flrcet. July i(j;
Lancaster, Harrijlurgb Carlijle,
Sbippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requeued to take notice, that
the partnerihip which lifts for some time fub
fiftcd between Mathiat Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now diffolvcd: but, not as M.
Slough infinaateste the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jeci from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December Ml. a recital of which is not now dcem
e4 necclfary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be I
more circumflantially informed of the merits of
this bufmefs, hy applying to W. Geer may have
the perofal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeAly juftlfiablc in attaching him
felf to any other pcrfon in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance front Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg.or any other jdace.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, T» illiam Geer, in conjunAion with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and difpatchthat a zeal to obligeth* pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The abovt company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horfcs, and every appuatenance to
render the parage fcfe and commodious, inform
thiofe wnu wilh to patronize and encourage the .
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Moncfny
aijd Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, plarrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto
eftablilhed.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harriiburg, arrive at'Sun
bijryin Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
anjl return Irom thcuce and arrive at Harriiburg
every Saturday,Jo that passengers deftitied for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may .proceed 00 Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27,1797-
N. B. This Line of Stage 9 starts from the
ho;;fc of William Ferrac, in Lancaster, or. every
Tiicfday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and (rom the house of
mi*. Samuel Elder in Harriiburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenlburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame r'cutint daily a: in its Kur Irom Philadel
phia. mwf
The pr'nt-ri in tie IT<nu4 Stare»3«WY riyVfiei
ti inrrt the foflowhg Of>fervai<o>:s hi !':■?■ r
pipers, by rjubicb the pu'ilic be fer-Jed,
as r,v H ds their obedient [truant.
B. LINCOLN, SuperiHteiiHant of
L'gbt-fJoufes, State of MaJ'ichiifetts.
BY order of the United Kta;es, Unule
lia? been ereAted it the Clay. Pomls, on Cape
Cod; the lamps in which are to be lighted 011
the 15th inil. The light house i. on,
I land elevated abcut ijo feet, which with the e
levation oi the Lantern makes the who'eheighth
203 feet above high water mark. Jrt order that
this Light may be diftinguillied from the Boflon
and other Light* en ourcoafl, an Eclipfer is e
reiJled, which will revolve around the Lam£s
once in 80 fecondsfo that thelight will he near
ly excluded from the eye of the approaching
mariner about thirty seconds, in one revoluti
on of the eclipfer. To render the benuvolent
designs of Ctulfcrrefs »s «wten[ively ufeful as pos
sible, the Marine Society in Boston, by a large
Committee from their body, whole views have
been ieconded by others, have taken such dis
tances and bearings as ther thought neceflary ;
which obfervatious giving light and fafety are
for the benefit of all interested—and are
as follows
VcJels outward brund, from Boston Light
house, and would with to faltin with Cape-Cod
the course is E. S.-£. distance 15 leagues, thence
3 leagues to the Light house. When up with
the L ght-houfe and it bears S W 2 leagues dif
,' tance, you then fleer SS E which wjll carry
yo'i out of the south channel.
. Veflels inward bound, and fall in with the
back of Cape-Cod, bring the Light to bear S W
2 leagues distance. then you may fleer WNW
for Boflon Light-House.
IF you you would wish to go into Cape Cod
harbor, you may keep the (hore aboard about
a mile distant, wliere you will have 10 fathoms
water. Ther« is a bar lies oft" the back of the
Cape, about half a mile from the ihore.
When up with Race-point, which is very
bold, and about three leagues to theweflward of
the Light-house, and maybe known by a num
ber of fi(h houses on it, from 1 to 3 miles to
the southward of Race-point, is what it called
Herring Cove, where you rmy hawe good an
ehering half a mile from the (hore, tho wind
from E to N N E in 4 or even 3 fathom water.
If bound into Cape Cod harbor, your course
from Racerpointta Wood end, i< S S E 6 miles
distance, bring the light to bear E by N and
run for it about two miles, you will' then he
clear of Wood end—then you mult fleer N E
until the light bears E by S—then run >T W
f.r the harbor, until you have from 4 to 3 i-a
fathoms water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Light then will bear E by S i-» S 5 or
6 miles distance.
In running from the Race point to Wood
End—after you pass 1 the Black Land or Hum
mucks, you will come tip with a low fa»dy
beach, which forms the harbor j extending be
tween a and 3 miies to Wood-end, which it
difficult diftinguilhed in the night—lt is
bold—you will have aj fathom water
within half a mile of the ihore.
In beating into Cape-Cod harbor, you must
keep the eastern ihore aboard, until you get in
to 5 fatho/n water. Stand no farther to the
westward than to hring the light to bear E by S
at there is along spit of sand runs off from the
western ihorr, which being very bold, you will
have 11 fatHom water within a ftonce throw of
ihore.
I« cafe it blows so hard that you cannot beat
the harbor, you will have good anchoring
without, from 10 to 15 fathom water.
YeflVls in Boflon bay and would wifli to put
away for Cane Cod harbor, must endeavor to
falLjn with the Race. If in the night, and you
eannotfee the land, you must bring the Light
to bear E by N and *un for it until yon have
fnundiqjts in 14 or 15 fathom water, then fleer
north east until the Might, bears E by S then .-un
in Iff W for the harbftr.
v At full and change, it is high water off Race
Point at 10 o > cl9ck and 43 minutes. Veffeli in
leaving Cape Cod bound to Boflon, ihould cal
culate the tide, as the flosd sets flrong to the
south well,
JOHNTOSTIR WILLIAMS, ~}Committe
NATHANIEL GOODWIN, f /">" '**
JOHN CRUFT, f" Marine
JOHN HILLS. ) Society
THOMAS BARNARD, A branch Pilot
for the pert as 80/ltn
SOLOMON COOK, \ReJidcnce at Pro-
ELIJAH NICKF.RSON, 5 vincetonCapeCod
At a Meeting of the Marine Society, held at
Concert Hall, on Tuesday 7th [Nov 1797 —the
above Report of its Committee was read and
approved and ordered to be publiihed.
Bj erder of ibe Society,
THOMAS DENNIE, President.
WILLIAM FURNESS, Sec'ry,
City of Wafhingcon.
SCHEME
Of th# Lottery, No. 11,
For the ImprovMrunt of the Federal City.
Amagnifjt«iPl»ellmg-hoßfe aojoocdollars,
4t caflt
1 ditto 15,000 fit caih 25,000 40,00</>
1 dftto 15,000 & caih 15,000 30,000
1 ditto lo,oo<> & calh 10,000 ib",ooo
1 ditto 5,006 ft cash 5 : ooo 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caii 5,000 10,000
1 caih prize of to,ooo
t do. s,oooeach,are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
ao do. 500 - - 10,000.
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
aoo do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. tj - - 10,000
l,doo do. ao - 10,000
15,00 a do. 10 - i5»,ooo
'6,739 Prizes.
33,a6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Sollar», 400,00t>
N. B. Tofavour thoiVwho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the i.ast drawn ticket, sndthe 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approved notes, fecu»it»g payment in either
money or pri2es, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
ThU Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ef
tht privite buildingt to be created in the City of
Waihington—Two beautiful designs are already
(«le<£«l for thtf entire Ironts on two of the public
squares; from< thofe'drawings it ispropofed to eredl
twocentrel»|id"<W'eoTßerbuildings,as foonaspof
fible after this lottery isfold, andtfi convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchcme for the Hctel
Lottery. A nett deduction o.f five per cent, will
be made to defray the neceffiary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Umvermry, to
be eiecled within the city of Waihingtoß.
The real fecuritjesgiven for the payment of the
Briies, are Iwld by the President and two DireA
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the smount.oi the lottery.
SAMUEL IiLODGET.
,5, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Col*m
bia ; of James Weft & Go. Baltimore; of Feter
Oilman, Boston : of John Hopkins, Richmond :
and of Richard Wslls, Cooper't Ferry. mWf
A Negro Man.
S ALE, the unexpired me (fouryeirs)
J. of aft out, healfhy, n&ive egro Man. He
is by »rade a Ccopcr, was brought up when a boy
to the farming fcufineis, is a good ploughman, un
derftandathe care and management of horses, and
i» a good driver He has lately been employed in
painting; a new house as>d paints well—he is good
tempered, and believed to be very honed, fold part
ly for want of employ, but more for being addict
ed to liquor—Fcr terms .apply to No. ia, Dock
flreet,n«ar Sj>r«ce Ureal.
Nov. 6. tf
The Philadelphia, jfaftun, and 7 u chert on
MAIL S T A G E.
PIE proprietys beg leave to inform the pub!}:, f jaf
they have ejlablijhed a Stage between Philadelphia,
Atfion, Batjlo, Hampton j Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nacey Wading River fitting m'tl, and Vte toTrn nf Tpd
erton, in IVew-Jerfey t to go once a we.-k, and are provi
ded with good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail,paff<mgeirs, and
goods. The Stajre iv/ll flart every Thurflay, at IO
o'clock, A. M. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s FeYry, and
lodge that night ai Joel Bddine*s, at Longacoming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. M. arrive at Celeb E
nam's, inleeper, in TucLerton, dijlant from the city 5 4
miles, (from tie Atlantic 6, andfrom the Ea.fl Grousing
Plains 7 miles) where are good accommodations for tra
vellers, and inhere are commodious andfafe pajfsge boats
pravided to convey pajje igers to Capt. IVilliam War
ringtone house, on Tucker's If.and, adjoinining the At
lantic, where are good accommoaaiions, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the sportsman who -wijhes to regale himfelf
it/itb foiolinr and fjhing % may at this place be highly gra*
tif edy there being at almofl every season of the year fowl
andfjo in abundance —The Stage en its return, farts
from the aforefaid C> Evans's in Tucker ton, every Turf*
day % at 6 o'clock, A. M. breakfafs at John Bodine's, at
leading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming»
and at 1 o'clock, P. ¥■ on Wednesday, arrive at the |
aforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal dijiance will be Irfs cxpct/five, or furnijh the tra
veller with a greater variety of amufem&tt, as he will
not only have a p leaf ant fail to the atlant.s from Tufiler
ton, but have the curuf/ty of feting on the road thiiher a
numb* of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
milt, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or factors, of any of the aforefaid ironworks,
are folic it ed to entourage and support this flag* (by Kvh cl>
they can be so well accommodated) the continuance of which \
will much depend on their aid. The rates of passengers
and baggage are as fellows : For a pajfenger from tie
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tuckerton, including
H lb. of baggage, Two Dollarsfor way paffenglrs
per mile, Four Cents——lso lb. of baggage equal to a paf
fencer. Pof age of letter*, newspapers, %sc. will be
agreeably to law.
iV. B. The mail crojfes from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARDLh & Co.
Tucker ton s Sept. 28. 08.$. —lawtf
The Norfolk~MaifSTAGE.'
THIS Stage ftartt from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, rvcry T.tfity, TburfJay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the ir orning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, »t
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fciry,
every Tuefdiy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday ; putt up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evenipg of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles left than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot befaid in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
pafiVnger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the tame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft 11. dtm.eotf.
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHES,
By ROBERT. CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]''
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 1 s §
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W.Young, Bookseller, No. 5», South Sc
cond-ftreet,
The Pennfy4vania State Trials,
/"lONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit*
V> ai of Francisllopkinfen, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large .8 vo. vol. Price, in boaids, 5
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aflortmentof
Book?. Alio, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well aflorted.and entitled to the drawback if
axptuted. July y— *
For SaJej
That well known place, coiled Vandemlitt's
f PUT,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phiia
ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premifesarea large two ltery (lone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story ftpnc kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threshing
floor, and ionic out buildings—atfo a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a moil elegant situation fora gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny toits jviniSion with the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey (hore. ft has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the SiWcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
IV'ay 24. r aHwtf. .
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School foryoung Ladies.
MRS. GU.OOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refiden»e in
Philadelphia; and allures htr friends and tjie
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, ihe has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
educatian is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpe<slive profpfiions.
Corner of Sprue* and Eleventh Streets. J
June sth, 1797. Jimfrf
Thefituation is perfeiflly healthy j and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the hotife.
JuJ Published,
And to be had of Mcffrs, Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookseller. ia t'le
city .price one dollar, twmty-five cenfs,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH DA&TON, m. d.
June so. «4t
Philadelphia, OS. 13.
1 HE fuUfcribers inform their friunds and tufto
mers in town and country, that tlieir flores are now
open iu the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from the prifent appearance ef the prevailing 1
disorder have resfon to hope, their friends may
fbortly come to tha city with perfect t»f ty. By
leveral bte arrivals, numbers have received freii
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith iff Co. P. W. Gallaudet iff Co.
John Dai is iff Co. Sitgreavcs iff French,
Neiil if) Smith, George Dob/on,
IVi'.lbergtr and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex Bt/Jland and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
'Jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and Co•
o<wen iff Jena. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Kefipele iff Zantzinger, William Barker iff Co.
Jldam Zantzinger, Thomas jirmut iff Son.
John Fries, J. Miller, jun. and Co.
Benjamin JohnJbn.
Ofl. 14 '
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
he has for Sale,
AVFRY cxtenfive stock, of every colour, and
of the mod approved patterns, fuitablc for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to fait.
ALSO
A handsome aflortment of the mod fafhionaMc
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very best pain Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety of Borders.
fr'uveo-hef i. C o6t
Wiil be Landed,
From onboard the {hip AdlUre, Capt.BLAiß,from
Hambntgh,
10 halt* white Russia clean Hemp
2 caflcs Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer, ,
North FlfA ft-reet, No. 34.
June 26. $ t
Imported inthefhipMANeHESTER,
Benjamin Skewkll, Master,
I From Bourrie»ux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "J
Irifli market claret lit cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatroyd.
WHO HAS TOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pfyes and quarter cafl«
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&st£.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Fiiday, the firil of December next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee lioufe, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Niue acres of LAND,
now or late in the County of Wafhingtoo, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and on the wipers of
Fresh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
Thefc Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and wCre
palentced early in 1757, except 3700 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in 179*. One fourth
°f the purchase money to be paid at the time of sale,
1 6r 1 he residue a credit of one, two and three month*,
will be given, od inttrefl and good feiurity.
Prober 6. 3awtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not bcfarc disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the ftrlt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant}.' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty fix Thousand Se
van Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the MilqUCnanr.a, new. or laic,
in the townfliipj of Hamd'&i and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One loiarih of the
money is so be paid at the time of sale ; for the »e
---fiduc a ciedit of one, two, and three months will be
given, on interest and good feeurity.
Oft»£c6. z qawts
■■ * • v. it—
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the worlcs of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight, the mind
and enlarge the underdanding, is opened daily, a
usual. It {lands in an airy and healthy Ctuatioh,
and free from the epidemic that at present affii&s
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greate&fafety.
As an the (ludy of Nature is the
mod rational and pleating : as a Science, the mod
sublime end inPruflive. It elevates the mind and
expandstke heart. They 1
" Whom Nature': iocrh can charm, 'with God bimfclf
" Hold converfc."
Many interring additions have lately hern
made to this Muiium : f.:-d the ftathered trib%
containing! variety of the mod rare and beautiful
fubjcCis, is now very advantageoufiy arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some them
cads from nature) are here dressed in their pieper
habits, ard placed in attitudes charadlericSic ofth<-ir
refpecflire rations. Here may be fere the North-
American Savage, and the SaVage of South-'Amcri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the ICamtfchadale—
with some Natives of the South Sea Iflnnds. 'l'he
immehfe variety and intereding diversity whicfl
this' Museum offers to the view, may be seen hut
winnotbe described with full eflisA.
Price only I-4th of a dollar,
aeyt. 38. law
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Strut. *
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING hufied for some time pad in prepsra
tions for removing into his present house, hs*
been under thcpeceffityof poftponinguntil thisday
Informing the geinlemen olthe Ear generally thro"
the Ilßited States, that hi 3 fp. «rg importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for I ale, eit
termsthat he trusts wiil sntitlehim to the like pw:-
freence he has experienced for leveraLycars pad.
Catalogues, •ombir.ing- the mod varied eollec
tion ever imported i/ilo this country, art printed
and will be delivered on application.
June SJ. law
Boston Glass lVJanufaftory.
THE citizens of the United Stares are hereW
informed, that the iv.anufaflurc of Window
Giafs is now commenced at the ClafsHcufe i.i Ed
ton.
I His needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of theßofton Ohft, as it is so wail 'hiw,w,j
throughout the United States to be in every ref'pe*
greatly fupcrior to any ever imported from Euror
lt will be cut to any f, Z e commonly used • and
tray be constantly had 't>v appiving to Charl'ss F
KurtES, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be aiidreffed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-itrcer, Eoftoo
Boston, Sept 30,1797 O 4 - 2a w^ v
Mtfrs. Tiwtby and Maf.n, CbarUCu.r .
Hod X , and Boy lap, Halifax, A". C M r /r n . ! pf l/ ,' e
a „dO Connor NcrfM . Mr. Elik Price. Al„:„,Jria ;
Messrs. S undt and Eran/n, JSultimore ■ Mr 11 ,r
ford; crc n .
tie abnt met aW 6 Tie eetJ.-t , ■
■uardedtitle HUcr. ' - e J-