tin and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
1
N VMEC.ft 1640 J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Suit's
F>r D R r GOODS.
f* Fox, No. 56,
Monti a-/) l " ut ' l
' 1 Afternoon—Footman & C«. N°- 65
(_ South Front-flreet.
f" ForcnMn—John Connelly, Old City
TusfA/iv J AuiSUou, No 73 foui'h Front-ftrect.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
(. 18} High-ilreet.
i tT^wX r i'° ro0 ' No -"
rhurfday $ Forenoon Edward Fox.
( Afternoon—Jokn Connelly.
a•j I Forenoon—Willtav* Shirt nun.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon —Peter tjenfon.
To be fold at the Merchant's Cof
fee-Houfe,
ON wednrfday the 13th ps December at so'
clock in the even ng, one certain bond or '
obligation dated July 16, 179;, signed by John '
Love of Alexandria for himfelf, Jnfiah Wat'fon
and Samuel Love for£6iio Virginia currency,
payable on the 3 rft of OtfkolK-r iali past.to Stock- ;
ley Donelfon or his affigtw—which Bond,the !
laid Tionelfon afiigned to James Grant, under
whose power of attorney this Idle will be made. •'
For further particulars appl) to the fubferibero.
FOOTMAN and Co. Ainflioneers.
Nov. aj!. dtijthd
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not Iff ore disposed of at private sale)
Monday Ihe (irft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, lVer»tv-Srx Thoufitqd
Seven Nu<idre<i 2nd Eightjtaerrs of LAND»intbe
State nf New-York, between the mwhrra bounds
of Pennfylvanra and ihc Sj'qQehanna, now, or late
in the town (hips of Hatndrnaod Warren,vftd roun
t«r of Montgomery. One foarth of the p-irchale
money tw be paid at the time of sale ; for the residue
credit of one, two and ihnie months, will be given,
on interelk and good feturtty.
Dec- 4. gtawrS.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
flf not before disposed of at private sale J
ON Monday the firlt day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun
died and Thirty-Nine acres of LAND in Green
county, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.on tha Wa
ters of Fish and Wheeling Creek, and tci Mile Run.
Thefc lands are fertile, well timbered and abound in
coal; they were {fold ten years ago for 51. per acre,
patented ca>]y in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
tented in 1792; the greatell part of them were sur
veyed in 1783,
This trafl is between the Ohjo and Monongahela,
very convenient to water carriage—about 19 miles from
the town of Walhington, and from 14 to 16 from the .
villages of Greenfburgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the purchase money is to be paid at the time of
sale ; for the lelidue a credit of one, two, and three
month) will be given, on interest and good (ecurity.
Dec. 1. tyawtj
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, lias {even years yet
to serve ; he is an excellent house servant, adiive
andheal'hy, Enquired the Printer.
December 2.
To Gentlemen who intend fpcndttg
the Winter in the City. !
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. corr ., r
6f Sixth and Race Streets. I K c'tuntion
agreeable—and vicinity has been Jr. • t h c [ ate
contagion. , Odl. %y —dtf
"COLUMBIA HOySE
Boarding School for youn g Ladies.
MRS. GROOtoBRIDGE w< t|j m ,j t h pieaf
ureand refpet?!, returns h fr f lnccre , c _
knowledgement for the liberal
she has received during four ye; rs re fiden«e in
Philadelphia; and allures her f r | cn( j s and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a superior Arrangement for
the mere convenient accomr no(^:1 .j on 0 f
scholars.—Every brinch of^ ft f ul an d ]>o lite
education is particularly at.,' ent [,.d to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mastj rs excelling in their
refpe&ive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce j ni j Eleventh Streets.
Jitne sth, 1797- Jimfitf
The situation is healthy ; and made
more agrreable by an ext enftve garden and lot
of ground adjoining tj, e house.
This Published,
And to be fold bv WILLIAM YOUNG, «orner of
and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Bths of a Dollar,
■"'Observations on certain Documents
Containoi in No.V »id VI of
<( The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charoe of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, it EULLY
REFUTED.
MITTEN BY UIMS EI F.
"fhis publication presents a concise statement
of the base means praSifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charaders of thoftt
who arc confitiered as hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
fefpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Mnhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
-Ic6t of the document? aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
,w»s the result of a daring eonfpiraay on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
A difenunt of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholefaie purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addreifed to Mr Youns.
/.uguft IS' . .
Landing,
From on board the fliip Euward, at Walnut-
Jlrect Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andfews.
November !• > > Lo '^
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country,
That three story Brick House,
No. north Third ftreec. Apply at the uf
fice of the Gazette. nav j; - w&sov
PHIL AD E L P'H 1A : MONDAY EVI Ni'v'G, DECEMBER 11, 1707
For Londonderry,
The American Ship
BOSTON PACKET,
M'.'.iler,
; I yiag at M.ffimy Wi-t-r.
hear Vine-dreet—Has e'.ejrarif a»e mmo.'jtiions for
psflengefs— fail, wi-r.'.h >r yxz.• jitic;. on or
about the tctk in ft. having alt her cargo engaged
ready to go an board. Fdr pad'sge only, apply to
the captain. ~
Smith & Ridgway,
No 4, North Water fttreet,or to
Isaac Harvey, Juti.
Ko. j, South Water ftrcet.
December I §*tct
tor Amfterdatn,
EDW?RD,
J am V Wickham, Mafler,
EXPECTED to fail in a few days, having two
t thirds of her cargo engaged, and near
ly on board. For Freight vr Paoage, apply co
the Matter on board, at Hamilton'b wharf, or to
John Don/jaldfon,
No. si, WaUiut-ftreet.
novrmber 38. dßt
t or Anilterdam,
The Ship
FARMER,
I OIIN M'GottOM, Mii fler ;
WILL fail in a few days, the
v vea x L r j.art of her cargo being
ruady. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pis-
I'age, apply to the mailer 01 board, at Walnut
ftrcet whurf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who i» Landing, o Jt of the said Ship, from Bosr
-■*" deau», and For' Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White >7ine in quarter casks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fantiniac,
Sauterne, \ Wises in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in bones
november 24. $
' For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of her
V il cargo being ready to go on
board, is expctScd to fail on or aboutSanday, the
3d of Decrmbsr.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN £3* Co.
November 12. §
For Londonderry,
the drigantine
G&jig£ s u kf,t,
v 1 William Whittin, Master.
A flrong good vefldl, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a
jrreat part of her chrgo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis'* wharf. For freight or pas
sage, spply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRTN,
LtfndenUcrgtr s ivbarj.
Who wants to Charter.
*, A Vessel of about three hundried tons.
\riOV 'B. **
Savannah, in Georgia,
""\ "»T HE SHIP
Jatot Sal/ y Butler >
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with cxccllcst
i'i.vAi*' accommodations for pallcngers—
cail, on rbe' roth of December. Tor Freight or
b*i£ on tne RQSS SIMS( rjj.
Passage, app'y^
A small iniJ°* ce GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO," and - P" le ' of » OLLY WOOD^
november 18. * —.
Po? Hamburgh.
jT-S The Brig MARY,
Petsr York, trader,
i ; r V Lying at RufTel's wharf,near Pine
j /Jreet, is now ready to take in a
J ~ ca r g°> " nd will fail in tan days.
r« « SMi TH .
November t f>- 1,1 -
Leech,
Have just received, have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut .flreet,
Liverpool and St- Übes SALT
Do. brft house CO S LS
Queens' WARE ia cases, alToftcd
Bourdcaux URANDY of an exc.lleat quality
Do. CLARET in ca(cs, do.
rir-3.-. THFY HAVE ALSO
JjjrjitfpV For SALE or CHARTER,
P E G G Y,
Burthen 125 tons, in excellent condition, and
may befentto sea with little expence »r delay.
LIKEWISE,
THE BRIG
WILLIAM,
Eurthen aoi tons,
november 16.
For Sale ot Charter,
YrTfov" - Tilt faft failing brig
Two Brothers,
ng at Curling's wharf,
an excellent tingle dcckVl veiTcl, tfurthen about
1600 barrels —not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the master
on board, or to/
°Jofeph Anthony & Co.
pov. diw.
Landing this day,
Frpm on board thu schooner Two Friends, Dan
tel Crawley, Matter,
80 hhds. and; T aala i ca RUM,
12 pipes ) 7
FOR SAL* BY
George Latimer &>' Son.
Uivev.btr 9. J
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefmit Street
TIIF. SfllP
; c£gv COSM F.RCR, 1-
v.s r, I
v&ikls&j. J'r-m irv'.rpyi fc fivr ditiia.gi'Aa.l
it Aios-ri'.'s tvftarfj'jKaf 'he Drawbvidj'f, wberc t
owners of freight, w© plta'c (p.-edt!]r.fi» |
fend tbi'itits. Saijf Vsffil wi l l <!,rfx.v,y alt
take ni freight on «ery low ternu
ply to the captain, or to
Isaac .Harvey, jun. .
No. e, Sourh \\ r ater Street.
A f«w tonsofPione, or i a!L>ft wanted.—
Apply above.
november ' '
For Sale or Charter,
i"Sri S" o '"'
WM** GOOD HOPE,
iJSSrgwl Wi I carry ab«ut barrels,and
ready to takeinacai'jp. JfOrterms
yply to
Praters & Co.
No. 151, aSutk Secofid-ftreet.
Vv'ho have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar itnd
Rnm, Madeira, Lifi)oii, and Teneriife wine.
r\ T ovemhcr 7. . dtf.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, fr»»i Oporto, ia Pipes and Hogsheads,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OPFfc R S FQft f. A LE,
The Sh ip
AMITY,
giV-^ims? Ftwrthotifand barrd»hurtb*n,
in erA«--r#ady
in a cargo—about three year t ld.
• I.IKEWISt,
The Schooner Indus trv,
Burthen soo barrel®, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Ju(l lauded from the above veflels at South ftrcet
wharf. eoim. Nov. r.
Philip Njcklin £s? Co. ;
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf*
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown '
25 hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chests
Qnickfilver in tubs
Madeira Wine tn pipes and hoglheads
Tencriffe Wine ill pipes
Old ted Port Wine in hoglheads
Sail Canvass, assorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Manchelter Goods, confiding of Dimities, ,
Mnflinets, Ginghams,Thickfetts, Corduroys, &c. .
200 crates Queens' Ware, assorted I
Nails, aflorted , ,
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in caflcs
A quantity at writing Slates, slate Ink Stand,, &c.
100 quarter casks Gun Powder
*7l>cy Lave rlfojer SALE or CHARTER,
Thefhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
good vessel, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 13 00 bar
rels, may be ready for Ceaan » few das*.
The whole of the above vessels to be seen at
Wa'nut flreet Wharf. 5 ntv. If.
BEEF.
Prime 3eef, fit for India voyages, for lale by
WILLIAM SHEAF!-,
' No. 168, High-fueet. >
Also, about fifteen hundred weight of Bees- |
Wax. dtf Nov- is, 1797-
James iff Richard Smith,
the Hher'y of informing their friends
X and the public, that they have removed their
[lore to No. 54, Soutb FrantJireet. nextd.or to Ed
ward Fox's Auction Room, where tbry have at :
this time for sale, a large and gjneral assortment of ,
European S3 5 Ei'Jl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier, ,
William Penn, &c. &c. , |
oa. i 7. L_
NQW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
'7he Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Batavia.
About 360 tons firft quali-y Java Coffee (the
whole having been fel jfled)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniflers and bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR SJILE Br
PETER BLIGHT.
Who pfo offers For Sale, ,
Just landed from ship Amity, from Jamaica,
loi hhds Ja' iaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 13. *l6 w,
NOW LANDING,
From on board the (hip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wine ill do.
For Sale, apply to
John White/ide Id Co.
No. 138, S arjcet-ftrcct.
Also, on hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes '
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few cases of Claret, of a superior quality,
november at). §
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLAC'KP'JKN's Lottery
and Brokers Oificc, No. 64, South Secdnd-ft.i'bct—
Tickets ill the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, wheie check books are kept lor regifter--
irijr and exami.iing in these, the City of WaSiing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of aSROKeit, in buyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcounti-.g Bills and Notes of Hand, f i|e of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. ELACKBUWN.
November IS-- S
, For Sale by thfe Subscriber,
y to bults Codafc
1 40 ''o. Baftas . '
It ,!n. Mimojtly
17 do. <?ljir.z, '
' j do". , IfooVry
2 do. G'or'abi ,
j 1 %$ J"-
3 do. Chk-ck ■itiipea
I do. Guzzie
I b«s Diapers
7 do. tJmLr.!la«
; 'AS pip#sfinefl particular Madeira Wine, of
the vin;aee i~g 5.
MORDfiCAI LEWIS.
DfCfmWr f. laW4".v
Uriah
'No. «o, north Third ftlject— ».*s for sAi.r,
A neat and general affortmtntof
Broad. Cloths, Kersey rn c-res,Napt
* and Drab foatinge. also,
A variety of GcnrVm Ats* falliionable fancy Wai!l
coating, silk Hosiery, &c.
December j. *eod;w
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Copt. HastlE,from Bourdcaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in ha£cet<; of 12 bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeanx Bran Jy,
•» For Sale by
JAMES I ATIMER, jun.
f yi,South Whaiv«.
Who has also for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine,
daw
PkOKmiON.
A handsome and r joray houfu, with a quinti-.
tjr oS Rood land, within s few miles of this ei'y.
A Hottfe in an eligible situation, !tr.d fev,:r»l
Lots in the city.
A valuable body of Lttnd on (he river Ohio.
A lfo, many tratfls of fine Lands (military
rights) lyir.g near the Ohio, on the Miami and
Sioto Rivers
Titles are all clear, and will be made with un
exceptionable security.
A resident of this oity is desirous of exchang
ing this property for Goods—East or Weft India
would be peelerred.
If the specie value of those Lands at a diflance,
cannot be ascertained fatisfa&orily, they shall be
rated at fuck a price as the purchaser may have it
at his option to return them at the fixed price with
interest, at the expiration of twelve months.
Notice left with the Editor shall be attended to.
December 6. 5
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
most refpe.?lful compliment* to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, aad re
turns his most grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetienced for
these twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that hii school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
if) South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walttut-ftreetn. To begin at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and: 6 in the evening for young
gentlemen.
His firft Practicing Ball will be to-morrow
evening, Saturday, the 9th inft.
Dec. 8. . aawtf.
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ,
Teacher ot Vocal and inftrun.cntal Music,
RE 1 URNS hisfcnccre thanks to the Ladies and
Gentlemen, front whom he received a very
liberal encouragement since his rcfidence in this ci
ty, andrefpeflfully informs his friends and the pub
lic ticneraliy, that, in conie<,ucnce of the request
of foiue us his frund6, he has opened a Musical
';ch»ol at hislioufo in Sjjroce Street No 1 )4,whci e
he will teach oa the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c
He deetas it unnectfl'ary ro enlarge upon the ad
r s'antagcsrthe learner will durive from an inllituti
j ouot this kind; he v. jllonly fay, that attention
[ and zeal are mach excited in an afToinhly, where
! numbers are iD pursuit of ths fame obj-il. His
j arrangement is such, that an interference of the
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies
andGentlenun who cannot mike it convenient to
attend at his school. he will wait upon their
houfe#. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at his house, where his terms and further parti
culars may be known.
Dec. 7. *jweod
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jireet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reafonahle terms. Oil 27. —4W
All Persons
Having any demands aga ; nft tie Eftateofthe
late Captain George Irwin, are reqnefted to
bring in their accounts properly atteited, 011 or
before the firit day of. January next tnfuing
and those who are indebted to laid ettate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SaRAH IRWIN, Adminißratrix.
Nov. 19 1797. - ... .ft .
Musical fnftrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-flreet.
TO THE LOrERS OF HARMONY. (
harper,
INFORMS hi j friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new inveutcd,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patfcnt swell, fonopahant and French harp
stop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone,fimplicityand durability of conftruflioo, the
fsperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a Cngle tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
are manufactured under his immediate infpeihon,
of the very be seasoned materials, he can fell on
reasonable terms for Cash. Inftrumwrts repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piryno Fortes taken in ex
charge for new. ,
novtmltr 18. 2aW2mo.
. Wants a place,
AS a Wet Nurse, a young woman, who can I
bewell recommended. Inquire in Eleventh
street, near Race-street. Nov. 27.
•eodiw.
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long about 403 weight, in
good condition, andvfould answer the purpose of
a country printer as well as new.
Entjuu-; of the Printer. aov, 30.
I The Subscriber intends to make
application lor the tenewalof a Cert ificate of a bhafc
in i «lr Baak of (he United States, the catnc
J»t A. 3. dated July u, 1797, the tame
n.jvir been ioit. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1.
——.—: —Afi —■ '■
ROSS in" SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALS,
A few bales-.Baftas, Codas, and
a rjosntj'.}' of Bengal COT i'QS
Kejgal SUGAR, in tag* and btisee
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, f RUM.
and Srtlgal «v
300 casks RIO)?, : nd
A pared of (hip building P.ED CEDAR.*
Os. 27. $
Mrs. OR ATT AN,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Lgdies'anU Gen
tionien of the City, th;&l&e prop .tes having
Four CONCERTS and BALLS f.iiiiig the winter..
Six Dollars each thibfcriber,. foe oa& Ticket «i
admittance thefitfon.
No Subscribers Tickets tvansferrabl;;. '
Two Dollars a single '.V.het.
The Concert to begin at lialf pafl fix, and the
Band to attend for the Pal! at eijgh*— i:h« expend
of whfch Mr- Oft a ttan engages to atfeharge.
The Cc ncert* viM bejjin as fben as the Band ar
rives from N.:w Yc rk, >
$5" I>uhfcrip:ion6 received, and Tickets deliv
ered at No. 19i, Market flrect.
29. Jiw
Chocolate and Milliards
of a fnperior quality manufjfluj-ed,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; or
pearl Baric* ; Philadelphia Porter, Kct r ,
Alt- and Cyder Taiurjm ai.d Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red, t ; <lrt and Lisbon Wine,
iuitaMej&qr exportation or home consumption.
TKehigKeft prise j-, : ren for iV'aflard-Seed.
yTtfa forfait, A quantity of- Booking and
rdmmon Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fultiana, Shawls, &c, for falebv
JOHN HA WORTH,
Ne~. 98, ibuth Front-street.
Nov. a?. .m.icth.t.iJ.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in <wbo!e and half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy i
TeneriJJe Wine
Molasses
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hogshead cf paiit
brushes.
N. (3* y. Frazer.
No. 95, Senth Front Street. •
Nov. y. dint
IMPORTED
IN the Clip Aurora, from Hamburgh, and for
sale by the Subscriber.
Bed ticks, 8-4, 9-4, and 10-4.
A quantity of Tapes, No. 13 and 25.
And on Hand,
German black Ribbon, No. 3 and 4.
George Pennock.
ir . jawiw
Library Company of Philaaelphia.
THE Members of the Library Company of
Philadelphia are hereby informed, that the Libra
ry will be open on Monday next, the 4th of De
cember, for the reception and delivery of books.
Those who neg!e«£fc to return the books, which
had been taken out previous to the firft of "Septem
ber last, in the course of the ensuing week, will
be fined as the rules dire&.
Tbe Loganian Library
Witt also be opened at the fame (ime, for the like
purposes.
N.B. A few copies of thu catalogues of the
bocks belonging to these inflitutions may be had
at t he Library.
Z. POULSON, jun. Librarian.
Library, november 30.
FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
young, strong, true to the draught, and capable
of haulipg as great a weight as most in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Chelter county, or*:o
Thomas Fijher,
No. 142,, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
11 rr.o. 2, eod^w.
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. o&avo.
By William Young, Boolfeller,
No. 51, Second llrect, the corner of Chcfnut street,
(Price, in bojrdt 8 7 I 1 Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
, " Paper,
A VIEW ,
Of the Science of Life ;
On the priueiples established in tha elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
With an attempt tp correfl some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly fe'eAed from the records of their pra&ice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tate's (sf Chas. Maclmjn.
To which is fubjained, a Treatise on the a&ion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indiredl debility
Andadiflertation onthe source* of Epidcmicand .
Pestilential diftafes; in whichisat tempted toprove
by a numerous induilion of fails, that they ne
ver arifc from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicissitudes of
the atmofpliere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Nov. i'. 6 tjzf
To be Sold j
A Valuable
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a he»lcby situation, about
seven mites from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and pofi'eflion lvul in a few weeks.
Part ®f the purchafe-moncy being paid,, a reason
lahle credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Fnquire of thii Printer,
november J mwhf
brujhes.
[VCAI'ATZ XII,. PHILADELPHIA,
MOS'DAY -fvening, DECEW.BE* t*'.
File House of Reprefeiuativgts of this
State, met at eleven o'clock on Saturday,
agreeably to adjournment, and after receiv
ing and reading two or three private peti
tions, procetded, according to the order of
the dav. to the appointment of the. pointers
oi their journals, when there again appeared
to be an equal number of votes for Meiirs.
Hall and Sellers and F. and R. Bailey, a id
of course 110 dfcilion took place. The
que (lion was, therefore on motion, poftpon
ed till Tuesday. The hour of twelve hav
ing arrived, a meflage was received from
the Senate, informing the house, .that the
Senate were afTembled and ready to receive
the promised communications of the Gover
nor of the Commonwealth. The House, in
consequence, adjourned for half an hour,
arid fjf oceeded to the Senate Chamber, and
a few minutes after they were f<tated. the
Governor entered, accompanied by the Se
cretary, and delivered the following Ad
dress:
Gtntlem;n of th; Senate, and
Gentlemen of the House of Repr fentatives,
. The alarm wTiich occasioned an abrupt
adjournment of' the Legislature, has been
.ju'.tified by the catadrophe that
ensued ; but I rejoitT that so early an op
portunity occurs to congregate you upon
the perfeCt restoration of health to our me
tropolis. While, therefore, we indulge the
feelings of sympathy aqd sorrow for the un
fortunate viftiras of the calamity, we are
called opon devoutly to acknowledge the
beneficence of Provjdenee, and to pay a tri
bute of gratitude to the meritorious citi
zens, who have been the inflruments of that
beneficence, in mitigating the severity, and
accflerating the termination of the late con
tagious sickness.
Fyim the various documents that will be
prefentqd for your information on thin fub
jWt, you will collect the particulars of the
progress antj extent of mortality. It is
rcprtfented, in that during the
months of August, September and October,
there died, within the city and its fnburbs,
1250 persons ; that, of those persons, 1000
fell by the prevailing fever ; and that the
number of persons who escaped, after being
affeCted by the contagion, may reasonably '
be computed at 4000. Corfcpared with, the
mortality of the year 1793, when Philadel
phia fuift-red under a similar visitation, this
ftatcmetrt is enough to evince the beneficial
effects that have been produced by the ear
ly evacuation of the city; by the alylum
which the tentsr CreCted 011 the Commons,
afforded to an indigent class of fugitives}
and by the previous inftftution of a public
hospital on the eadtrn banks-os the Schuyl
kill. Of the aCtivity and fidelity, likewise,
vrith which the business of the board of
health, was transaCted ; of the judgment and
philantbrophy with which the legislative
grant was expended ; and of the liberality
with which individuals contributed, by per
sonal as well as pecuniary aids, to alleviate 1
the public distress ; the testimonials are ob
vious to every eve, and mull be grateful to
every heart. The incidental cxpenfes of
the health-office are edimated at rg,coo dol
lars, and the gratuitous cpntributioiu (in
cluding the legislative grant) amount, it is
believed, to 33,000 'dollars. With these
resources alone, therefore, and surrounded
by objeCfs of desolation and dismay, during
a term exceeding two months, the sick of
this populons city have been humanely che
rifbed —the deccafed have been decently in
terred —the aged and infirm have been com
fortably fuftainqd—and, in'the genuine spi
rit of benevolence, the indudrious have been
employed and rewarded. To a recapitula
tion so consolatory let mc add, as a just eu
logium on the moral state of the communi
ty, that amidst all the temptations and op
portunities to plunder and riot, which the
erifis might naturally be supposed to create,
the rights of property were never more r«f
peCted, nor public order more rigidly main
tained.
Thus emerging from a scene of compli
cated calamity, it becomes our indifpenfa-
Me duty to contemplate the oaufe, and (as
far as 'human precaution can avail) to coun
teract and repel its future opeiations. It is,
indeed, to be seriously lamented ftiat a di
versity of opinion, in relation to the origin
and nature of the disease, Ihould have rais
ed an acrimonious spirit of controversy, dif
graceful to science and injurious to society :
but it is a fufficient fatisfaction to know,
that a difference in the modes of cure can
have no influence on the question of pre
vention ; and, fortunately, in that refpeft,
whether the disease has been imported from
foreign countries, or was generated hei'e, the
several remedies proposed are not only per
fectly confident with each other, but will al
ways be mod efficacious when employed to
gether. Permit me then, gentlemen, with
a solicitude suited to the importance of the
occasion, to recommend to your immediate
attention, the plans which are detailed by
the college of physicians, by other learned
Members of the faculty, and by the inspec
tors of the heahh-offiece, in the reports that
Will be submitted to your consideration.
By these reports, it will be found, that
in order to guard against the introduction of
pestilential and contagiiius dife-afes, from fo
reign countries, the establishment of a board
of health, re drifted in point of number, so
as to epfure responsibility ; in
part, of medical characters, and excluding,
entirely, persons whose interests are liable
be immediately by the laws of qua
rantine —ii efl'entially requilite. The pub
lic buildings «a State Island should be en
larged, so that separate accommodations
may be appropriated for the healthy and the
diseased, as well as places for fumigating,
and magazines for floring the targets of ves
sels ; and a permanent public hospital Ihould
b: erected on the neighbpuriug commons,
for the -reception of ar\y inhabitants as the
city,infected, or supposed to-be infeCted,
with a contagious fijknefs. From the be
ginning of July to the end of OCtober, # in
every year, all vefTela arriving from the Me
diterranean, the eoaft of Africa, the Weil-
Indies, and the continent of America to the
southward of Florida, should be compelled
to perform a fixed and. effectual quarantine.
Tlte powers of officers employed in this
department of our police should be equal to
all ts objects, and to every poffiblcemergen
cy ; and the punishment to be inflicted Upon
thole who (hall transgress the law, should be
of the mod exemplary nature. 1
For obviating all danger to the public
any domellfc foarcc «f conta- ;
gion, an attention to the cleanliness of the j
city, its avenues, and vacant lots, seems to
bs tl»c only neceflary care. The powers of
the respeCtive corporate bodies, which are
condituted for the local purposes of the ci
ty, the northern liberties, and thedfdriCt of
Southwark, should, therefore, be rendered
completely competent to cft&blifh and en
force the various regulations, which this ob
jeft will fugged. But the interposition of
the legislature will, also, be indifpeufable,"
is order to insure such a supply 01 water,
through the medium of canals, as appears
to have become essential to thej general con
venience, as well as to the health of the com
munity.
In delineating this outline of the measures
that are proper to be pursued, I am sensible
gentlemen, that I have openedHo your view
a wide field of labor and expeuce. But,
when you refleCt, that probably, for want
of such precautions, the business of the city
has twice, within a period of four years,
been deranged ; its population difperitfd ;
and its prosperity endangered ; you will
perceive, that, independent of every senti
ment of compaflion, and upon a mere calcu
lation of interest, the whole commonwealth
is deeply concerned, that every effort of
wisdom and finance should be made, to pro
teCt the feat of our government and com
merce from the return of so dreadful an e
vil.
It is with peculiar pleiifure, under thecon
fideration which has been jud fuggeded,
that I advert to the progress of improve
ment and opulence in every part of Penn
sylvania. The effeCts of a liberal and judi
cious policy, adtuating and guiding the le
gislature in the disposition of the public
wealth, are defcernible in the greater facili
ty, With which the interior intercourse, by
roads and rivers,, is maintained ; in the aug
mentation of the number of inhabitants j
and in the flourifhing condition of the vari
ous sentiments that have been recently form
ed. The auspicious result, therefore, of our
experience, at once, enables the date to de
fray the ex pence, and invites its legislature
to promote the acComplishment ot every ob
ject of public utility. Befidei those objeCts
to which I have ijow referred, the inllitu
tion of public fclrWils, the reformation of
the laws for regukmng elections, the orga
nization the militia, the encouragement
of inland navigation, and the improvement
of roads and highways, merit particular .at
tention j and will afford an ample scope for
the display of patriotism and public spirit.
The report of the agent of information
(which I have diredted to be communicated
to you) fatisfaCtorily exhibits the progress
in executing the several contraCts that have
been formed for improving our roads and ri
vers : but it is ajuftice peculiarly due to
the contractors, for opening a canal at the
falls of Conewago, in the river Sufquehan
nah, publicly to announce the completion
of that important undertaking ; and to ac
knowledge, from aCtaal ©bfervation,that the
work appears tob« an honor to the state, as
well as a lading monument of their enter
prize, skill and integrity. The disburse
ments ofthr contractors have fo.far, indeed,
exceeded the sum appropriated by law, that
-on a principle of equity, as well as to ex
cite an advantageous emulation, I am indu
ced to recommend such a modification of
their contraCt, as will allow the exaCtion of
'a toll from paflengers, equal tothe charge of
hiring Aerfons to attend the locks, and to
keep tftm in condant repair.
For many other topics inter,efting to our
condituents and claiming a legislative inter
position, permit me, gentlemefy to refer, te
the communications, which have been made
on former occasions to the general afltmbly.
In the judiciary department yru will find,
that the want of the powers of a court of
equity, has been deemed a radical defeCt in
our fydem of jurisprudence : and the sala
ries allowed to the associate judges of the
court of common pleas ofPhiladclphia coun
ty (where business of great moment and dif
ficulty condantly occurs) is tnanifeftly in
confifterrt, as well with the official indepen
dence contemplated by the conditution, as
with the reasonable compensation, to which
every citizen is entitled for the services that
he renders to the public. The theory of
our penal code (justly the pride of Pennsyl
vania) seems hitherto to be free from any
rational objection. The fuperintendance
and discipline of the criminal prisons and
penitentiary houses, are, likewise, highly
meritorious ; and completely efficient. But
it is incumbent upon me to declare-, that
the debtor's apartment presents a contrad
of wretchedness and disorder, which is pain
ful to every sense of humanity, and dedrue
tive to every principle of virtue. Let me
earnedly therefore, gentlemen, entreat, that
an immediate remedy may be applied to this
encroafing grievance. The expediency of
abolishing imprifanment for debt hrta repeat
edly btcn under the consideration of
giflature ; but whatever may be the issue of
your deliberations on that point, the rcgu
' lation of bankruptcy, and a revision of the
laws rtlating to insolvent debtors, are fub
jetls which the present state of commerce
and credit will not fuffer to escape your at
tention. It will be neccffary, likewise, to
include in any arrangement, that shall be
made on this branch of our police) lome
j provision for the cafe of debtors, who, after
being ytcjfted by civil procels, may he c</m- '
mitted for offences, to the cri-rl.ial jail j so ,<
that those who have the cuilo.Jy of their i
p£rfon6, may beheld refposfible, with fuffi- :
cient fnreties, as well to the creditors, as to
th« public.
Frtjm the inWiWftmg fubjecls which ap
pear upon yonr records, none will be thought
more deferring of fcleftion, than the (late
of the territorial controvcrfy in Luzerne,
and tli..' neighbouring counties. With re
fjieft v o the controversy itfe'f, nothing has
occurred to change the opinion that wis de
livered in a former Address ; but, consider
ing the extensive f;de of public land, tha
rapid advancement of lettjements, and the
menacing collision of legal rights and equi
table claims, in other quarters of the State,
it becomes daily more important to the se
curity of private property, to the pre
fervatioli of public tranquility, that your j
deciiron, in the pnifent cafe, Thould evince i
the disposition and the poiver to assert the
juriUiftiort, and maintain the rights of our !
go\€rnment.
There will be prefenUd, Gentlemen, for
youF information, a copy of the Contrast
which has been made for importing 10,000 1
Hands of arms ; and, as soon as the arranga- '
ment can be completed, you will, also, re
ceive a copy of the Contrail for manufaftur
ing a like number, agreeably trt the direfti
ons Of the aft of Assembly. The report of
the Commiffionfrs for erefting the public
building on Ninth-street, will shew the pre- '1
sent situation of that work, the manner of
diiburfing the money appropriated for ac- *
couiplilhing it, and the balance that remains
iiNfatisfied. Yo'u will, of course, prescribe,
during the courte of the fefiioii, some use
for the building ; since it cannot now be j
employed according to the original design. j
In examining the account Qf our Financ- 1
es, yon will find, Gentlemen, that from !
the lit of January (when there was a bal- j
ance iti the Treafuryof 94,718 Dollars and,
85 Cents) to the 30th of November lall,
the receipts have amounted to a fuin
of 187,951 ipolltri and 27 Cents ; and that
the diTburleteents during the fame period,
have Sftftoarited so the sum of 210,914 Dol
lars aitd 60 Cents. The specie, therefore,
at this time in' the Treasury, amounts to
the sum of 71,755 Dollars and 12 Cents :
But it i« proper to remark, that, in the
eotirfe of the ensuing month, besides the
fu[<plies constantly flowing from the operati
ons of the Land-Office, the fees of Public
Offices, and other sources of contribution,
there will be a further accumulation of about
80,000 Dollars, from the Dividend on the
Shares rif the Dank of Pennsylvania, and a
bout 2,900 Dollars from the principal and
interest of the Stock of the United States,
the property of the State. You will, also,
observe, that many of the items of expendi
ture are of a temporary naturt; while many
of the inflruments of revenue become daily
more produftive; and our annual income
will receive an addition of about 13.600
Dollars, as soon as the period for paying
interest on the Deferred Stock (hall arrive.
Gentlemen*!)/the House of Reprtfnt-aitvei.
This view oEour Finance* mud be peculi
arly -pknfrng to you, on whom,the duty »f
providing for the public expenditure, is, in
the firft instance, devolved by the Constitu
tion. Though the existing appropriations
are great ; and the extraordinary, as well
as current expences of the present year, will
demand a considerable dilburfement, the
Treasury, you perceive, is abundantly re
plenilhed, and will jollify a liberal attention
♦o all the objefta of public necessity and im
pravement, which have been submitted to
your consideration. To these, let me add,
-that upon the reprefeutations which I have
received, justice seems to require some aug
mentation of the public salaries that were
fixed antecedently to the present Govern
ment, and which have fiflce become, mani
feilly, unequal to the.mod economical sup
port of the refpeftive officers and their fami
lies.
Were it neceflary to resort to any Tax, in
order to effeftuate the purposes which are
contemplated, it w<ll be reeollefted, that in
a free country, under a Republican fyllem,
nothing can be more desirable, than that
fhould be called upon for such
pecuniary contributions, as will constantly
excite their vigilance, in scrutinizing the ad
miniflration and thee xpencetof their govern-'
ment. But, independent of this policy,
and this resource, the fees 011 a variety of
public instruments, and particularly onTav
ern an 4 Marriage Licences, might be con
venientlyand profitably increased. Thecafe
of Marriage Licences, indeed, demands at
tention 011 other principles; forthe materi
al alteration in the slate of population and
society, since the palling of the aft to pro
hibit Clandestine Marriages, mull fuggell
the propriety of considering, whether if is
longer fafe to leave the authority of perform
ing the Marriage ceremony, and the penal
ty for tranfgrefling the law, upon the foot
ing on which thfy now (land. * V
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemen of the House of Reprcfrntatives.
In a communication to the Legislature of
Pennsylvania, whose citizens are eminently
intefefted in theprofperity of the union, and
have always been conspicuously attached to
the independence and hpnor of the national
eharafter, the welfare of oiw filler dates,
and the maintenance of an harmonious in
tercourse with foreign countries, are topics,
which will never be thought indifferent or
improper. I Cannot, then, conclude this
address, without offering you, in both ref
pefts, a cordial congratulation. The natu
ral refaiirCes (>i the United States, and the
industry of their inhabitants ; the perfeft
enjoyment ps civil liberty, and the general
dinufien of ufeful knowledge ; have produ
ced a ftateof facial happiness, which it has
rarely been the fate of nations to attain, and
which it pan never be too zealously our en
deavour to preserve. HeDce, therefore, we
mud regard, with peculiar pleasure and so
licitude, the measures, and the fair profpeft
that fuccefc will attend the measures, which
i in.the adniinillration of the Federal Govern
ment, have been pursued, to rescue our*
.commerce from depredstisri, to procure re
dress for the injuries that have been fuffered,
and to revive that amity with the Freuch re
public, which, as it was coeval with our in
dependence, every generous American mufl
with to find congenial with the fpiiit and
reputation of our political institutions.
To eilablifh those inftitutions'tipon a ge
nuine republican foundation, was the great
objeft of our revolutionary contest : And,
I trufl, Gentlemen, tint we, that our pos
terity, will never behold thj calimatous day,
when, by inlidions michitiatioris, or bv o
pen force, so glorious a foundation fh.iu-be
undermined, or overthrown.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
"Philadelphia, D-cember 9, 1797.
The address being concluded, a id tWgo
vcrnor having retired, the members of the
j house of representatives returned to their
I own chamber, and after ordering 100 copies
of the addrefs to be printed for
; the use of the members, adjourned till three '
I o'clock on Monday.
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO,
The remarks publiflied in your paper of
Tnefday were intended to the right 6f
the French to demand a role d'equipage un
founded, and that ti;e condemnation of our
veffeli and property in confequencc has been
unjust in the extreme.
I, The miflalenpolicy of those violent mea
sures mull be evident to every man whose
" maid is not jaundiced by the evil eyes of
party spirit and prejudice—it has left
room for the enemies of France to boast
that " however justly we complained of
; fppliations on our commerce by another
i power, far greater excesses have been com
i initted by the French I" One proceeded on
j th? a\t>wed, known and defined rides and
I praftices of all nations where treaties had
not ftipulpted to the contrary ; the other in
violation of a deliberate agreement, guided
by the fuggefltions of the moment, on the
changeable fyllem of the seeming political
diftates of each day, fubmitjiug to the nar
lowfurmifes of short figbted speculative po
liticians, who, forgetful that Frasce by
changing her monarchy into a Cepublic, had
effefted a revolution in her objeds as well as~
her minillers and agents ; but they losing
fight of the design of modern crtlhajfus to Ame
rica, buried in intrigue and felfiih impor
tance the commercial, manufafturing and
trading interests of their country. Over
looking the principles they profeffed of na
tional honor, disinterestedness and justice,
(sentiments conveyed alike by the breath of
the most perfeft policy jind dignified hu
manity) they pursued the illusive, deceitful
and rifionary advice of felf created fecieties,
angry, prejudiced and defignitig dema
gogues !! ! Where no<w are those imagined
•warmfriends to France ? in what an unfa
vourable light have they placed her in the
eyes of United Amerita ?
Yet it. is not impossible but meafurs un
friendly (in event) to both nations may have
been advised by weak or mistaken though
well meaning men in this ; but the mmitlrrt
of Fran« here since the revolution had it not
in their power to give proper advice, having
.(hut the doors of information and advantage
1 against themselves and their country ; af
i tached to a party they anxioully endeavour
-1 ed to encreafe the number without eftimat
; irig the jnerit or information of the men who
. lifted under the uupromiling influence of a
1 positive or implied oppofitiou to the gov
ernment and measures of their own ; uir
> mindful of a clear truth that "he is eitlf^ r
, a bad man or of finall talents and itifluejjj c
; who exercises his genius to the injury' an( j
- prejudice of his country whose br&gj jj C
; eats." The American whose ad?j ce
- counsel should seem to favor the or
. promote the prosperity of any foreig n coun .
- try, tyhile at th» fame time his.ow,, wa , b e _
- nefitted thereby and the peace, ha rmoR y an! ]
fecurit-y of it probably blended/ therewith,
1 might be listened to with fafety, an{ j perhaps
• his ideas adopted with propriety ; but the
i frigid designs of lludied deceit\> r f e ]f,(h a d_
, vantage even from the lips of ihility calmly
t committing the interests of h, s OWII na tion
1 ought to be heard with appi. t l, en (i on a „J
iuhowed with fear. It is li\ e bribing a man
- to betray his trufl and then edging him to be
-' true to you.
, The French it is evident have been told
f " you may imitate the c>, n duft of Great,
- "Britain, your friends are numerous in this
- country, you may force t.n c United 'States
e to break this treaty," forgetful of a most
- exeellent lesson of inftruftion "upon the sub
. jeftof compulfior,," " touch all that he hath
1 and he will curse thee to thy face."
In cenfequcnce however of believing this
I deceptive Counsel, certain steps and measures
s were taken, but they were varied or changed
- as often as they were always found errone
ous, inapplicable to the ground of the fifti
- tious eumplaints on which they wefe found
v ed, or to the ultimate cbjeft. At onetime
" all commercial relations were suspended."
. This could jujlly have done - nothing more
f than expoftd enemies property on board A
j merican veffcls ; which was afterwards de
-1 clared to be the design by another Ed'tS ;
a but after many modifications in order to har
-1 rafs our commerce, 'twas at length determi
, ned to take our jZips and cargoes, and a de
- mand was made of a Role d'Equipage—as
, ivellmight they fay every vejfel Jlall have a lift
r of both honfes of Congress.
s When those nnjutt things began to be
praftifed, France hail the good wilhesof all
- [ America for her fuccefs,.and the bell difpo
e I ution for her future interests universally
I ! prevailed—plans were already suggested for
1 eftablilhing a society for the promotion of
- trade, manufactures and commercial inter
s course between the two Republics, the flow
i ing fails of freedom feetned already fneeted
- home and spread from lhore to shore. At
e the-fame moment the conduft of Great-Bri
- tain itnpreffed universal resentment, anger,
I and abfolnte antipathy, a more propitiot s
1 j moment could not offer for securing the
- i friendfliip and favourable difpefuion of the
American government <a«d people ; but in-
Head of embracing it tiro' tht channels of
eenm-rce, the only true political path in this
country, recourse was had to intrigue crea
ting d signs in order to di/'cover them, and ori
ginating the odious epithets of Aristocrat
and Democrat unknown amongil us before,
to divide the piople and weaken the Govern
ment l '
We were told and hear dill about a treaty
Mr. Genet was authorised to make, certain
ly we were to judge with what nation we
could make the bed bargain. How would
it be now if treaties only were to procure us be
nefits ? France is yet in too infant a lhte as
to matvufa&iires, fudderiJy to open arj exten-
IVve trade with us so as to rival Great-Bri
tain ;it must be the work of time : com
merce may be courted, influenced, shared,
biit not forced or compelled. " Trade is
tender, it is like the sensitive plant, tsuch it and
it fir in is, press it and it dies'."
A great portion of our European trade
originates in the importation of manufactur
ed goods, which creates a reciprocate com
merce. VefTels employedto bringthofe ar
ticles, must at certain periodical seasons be
at the,ports \vhere they are to load. Thus
they return to those ports tho' with cargoes
to be consumed elsewhere, or in other coun
tries, and where veffefs are lent direst to
■those other countries, it is by way of remit
tance to England, where Gsrman goods as
well as their own are obtained upon exten
sive credit. From hence results that those
who can give the longest credits only can en
ter the lift of advantageous competition, and
with that equality, those who manufa&ure
the best and cbeapefl goods nytintain it.
When France shall haveeftahlifljed'tranquil
ity at home the cheapness of living there
will nurture 'inanufadlures, and the employ
ment and application of honest industry,
now become honorable, will be lucratively
exerted ; the frniles of peace -will cherifo
the efforts of ingenuity, and the fni\ shine $f
freedom and plenty reward it ;-experiments
will be repeated till rival labor there, fue
i cefsfolly contends for rival preference—then
aud not till then, can intercourse exte-nd
with us.
In the mean time repetitions of violence and
tedious temporizing may require Come remedy
free from the horrors of war, which their
fufferings though originating in a just cen
teft far their liberties, should teach us to
shun. Whatever measures are adapted to
effeft this defireable end should be fo-likt
exprefTed to all the belligerent powers that
if circumstances produce unlike efFefts th«
United States be free from blame.
Recourse was had before to an embargo-,
and if Mr. Smith (S. C.) and those ger.tlen
men who generally voted with him had bee,
supported in the motion for its continuance
the aggrefTor and all the powers of Europe
intcrefted therein would quickly have con
fefifed the United States hold moil impor
tant power in time of war—that of starving
or greatly distressing the poflefiions of any
of them in the Weft-Indies. As such a re
solution as general as the former might now
reduce the value of grams, flow,rice,
frnmfl&nf See. It is conceived the de
sired objeft may be answered by an embargo
excepting all national vessels of war of
whatever country they may be. By such a
quali.ied rcftri&ion the mod powerful at sea
iSfy!i wo uW get supplied, our produce would
j Jill'jfcd afak, and our property be secure from
plundef", Ic cou W not afford just cause of
{ compla^ nt * > ve should continue to pre
serve th\' nvalua ble blefiing's of peace.
A /RIEND TO LAWS Sc FREEDOM.
v FOR SHE,
By JOIfN MILLER, jun. & Co.
so. 8, Ch«inut-ftreet,
One '-"nared and eighty bales
BENGAL goods,
ji\friongfi are,
Our rah s Mantoodic®
Baltas Sarrnas
Ouzz nahs ' Tanda Coifaes
G lizzies Emends
Blue Cloths\ Calicoes
Palampoors v Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongti them ar a g re *t proportion of the
manufaflures of Patn#*
December I. v §
JUST RECEIVED,
(via NcWrYofk)
AND NOW OP ENING > By'
George Dobson,
.. No ,zs, f«uth Thirh nrc «.
An extensive and general aflortmcnt of
HABERDASHER/Y^iz.
Bed London mixt Piiis Gallpons and FeiretiTN
Common do. cio. Worfled Bindings,affor
white cl.upel Imperial, dixper, and
Nuns Ir.raad no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly afTorted V hire Edgings
Liflc do no. no to jbo, Black „d coloured CW
regnlarly assorted nefe Ribbands
Cnlourjd do Sittin and fi Kurc(J Ho>
Black sewing Silks BlackV.lvet, I- 4 toi 2 d
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Sattin.
Otlk and cotton Wi-cj . French
Do' do. Ribbands Scotch do
Shirt Mould, and Wire, Pl.,n gilt , nd p i ated
Black brum Feathers Bottont
And a compkv aflortm-nt of O«ods, fuitahlo
to the prcfent sad approaching season, at reduced
Dee. 6. d t f
B A L I. ~~
MR. BTRXE', firft Ball will ht To-morr ( .w
evening next, nth December, at O'Ellcrs'
Hotel, when several new Country".Dances for the
eafuiaif fesfon will be introduced, comuof-d and
fibres adapted, by Mr. Byrne, V the amufeirtent
ot t!»e company in gensral.
Ihe Doors to be oiiencd at fix, and the Va'l
connier.ee a:feven. Gentlem-ju's T,cke , one do -
breach. «o .>« had at OT.!i«r<s_Udie,' Tickets
graus, for the fta&n, of Mr. and Mrs. Byrne'
No. rT4, norfhPiy.th llreet. I^ ec g
l he Gity Dancing AfiembTvT^
!s unavoidably poftpoucd till the 14th mft.
Dec.
I'hiudelphiaandLancalterl urn
pike Company,
7 "'HF. Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
an ,r'V a ,' ij a ' o " r,>r Officers for the enfuin..
yenr wtll be held at theCon,p,ny's Office inPhiia
d lplua, on thefecond Mondavin January next at
10 o Cl sck, A. M. Wm. OOVETT, Sec'r'
JJcccrafer 7, its m&wt;J 'By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, December 4.
From Hamburg, Sept. 9.
"A ytffd departing fVr your iv.it of Am rica,
cffordsiYJO fcti -opportunity to a-'vif you of thfc
ftatc of flus market. Weft India produce i". a?
prt'jcnt (filing at high price# ; which there is every
rdjfnn to believe will at last maintain, if they do
not A;>rf The store of coffee and ftigar here, is
by, 110 means ccnfidcrable, which alone is a reufon
lor the high prices to continue even Ihould peace
tyke place \ K lt this fince the new alteration 1
in France > is vfty doubtful. Whatever may at last
he agreed lipen by the Furopea;: powers, it feemi
that pence will cftntinue between Fr.*rtceand Ame
rica, The former no longer molcftij our fliips
when they ate provided with the required papers ;
and our underwritflrn no longer objeA to insure
them at the usual premiuir?, from five to fix per
cent, all rifles.
In confluence of the irtcreafed demand for
cotton it ha* risen to 55 and 60 and is expe&ed to
keep up.—People begin now to hold their indigo,
imagining a rife will (hortly take place : For to
bacco there is little sale ; the prices however hold,
aujjJ as autumn advances, no dcul»t the demand will
fncreafe."
Capr. from Cape Frrncois, informs,
3 decree had rafted the authority of that ifl
ar.d, forbidding their privateer* to take any \nic
tfc'nn vessels, nbt hound to a r< bel porr.
C -, .pt. H. >lfo irforms, that an eoHurgd was to
take phure at Cape Francoi«, about the 20th OA.
oft of the failing of some frigates with dlf
parchc-Sj f«r Ftance.. »
The flup Grand Turk, from Canton, captain
Magee, v»as> fj okc on i hurlday laU, loleaguesto
the eaflward ci Cape Ann, having 101 l three of
the crew, and in want of pro«f:on*. A pilot
boat was.difpotched on Saturday nvoriting,. to sup
ply an<i rfii'l, her into port. Her earn
go, which is very valuable, we underOand, isun
d'erwritUnat Erooks's, to the* amount of near
I*o,ooo dollars.
NEW-YORK, December 9.
The following isja comparative statement
'of the (hips taken See. since the commence
ment of the war, with France :
. -»79.1 *794 'm 1796 17»7
English 261 517 soi 414 501 Total2z66
French 63 88 47 63 115 376
Balance againfl England 1890
In Sir George Staunton's excellent hif
toiy of Lord Macartney's embafly to Chi
na, we are told that there is 110 silver coin
in that empire, notwithstanding payments
are made with that metal in masses of about
ten ounces, having the form of the crucible
they were refined in, with the {lamp of a
■ffingle charafter denoting their weight. Its
value, in currency, rifts and falls according
to its relative scarcity or plenty ifTued from
the Imperial treafnry. Spanifli dollars are
curreut throughout every part of Asia.
.Gold is made use of in articles of dress or
luxury, but seldom applied to the purposes
of commerce.
The constitutional Bishop of Contance.in
France, is so devoid of wordly goods, that
his whole revenue is said to be scarcely fuf
fieient to pay for the printing of mandates.
A gathering vras lately imJt tr> tnnbls Wm
tQgo to Paris; but this also was so moder
ate,, that man, it is observed, was
obliged to travel in an Apostolic manner, on
foot.
LONDON, Oft. 5.
Paris—General PichegAi was completely
sick of travelling in a wagg6n, before his em
'barkation at Rechfort. He thought it hard
that as he had once led an army, he (hould
now travel as part of the baggage.
The fate of the French generals is rather
hard. After running, for a (hort time, A very
brilliant careef, they are either banithed,
prifeaed, or difmifled. It is the property
of tyrants to become suspicious of their a
gents.
Accounts from Manheim mention a dread
ful accident during th/military evolutions
performed before the archduke Charles,
near Schwetzingen, on the 20th ult. when,
notwithftading the precautions taken, thir
ty-fix privates and an officer were taken to
the hospital with little hopes of recovery.
The Imperial army at present encamped
in Carniola, Frioul, Carinthia, and Tyrol,
consists of 109 battallions, 68 detached com
panies, and 96 of cavalry. The artillery of
reserve forms a park of 137 pieces of cannon.
It is a fa& not generally known, that the
fatal ball which (hattered the arm of the
brave Sir H. Nelson, likewise wounded his
son-in-law, lieut. Nefbitt, in his left arm,
who was (landing by him : notwithstanding
which, he heroically took out his handker
chief and tied up the wound of his noble re
lative, and after by the means of his right
hand, threw him over his (houlder, and car
ried him on shore. Sir H. Nelson being
very diminutiveinftatHre, rendered the brave
aft more easy.
We understand the of the admiral
ty have promoted lieut. Ne(bitt, who is the
son of lady Nelson by a former husband, to
the. rank of master and commander.
Extraft of a letter from Plymouth, Oft. 2.
«The French privateer L'lndien, was
taken on Sunday the 24th ult. within a few
hours fail of Bourdeaux, by and
Phaeton frigates, which (hips have also re
captured the Adamant, and (hip and barque
Chatham. The Adamant and fliip Chatham
are arrived here with L'Unite frigate, and
the lark is hourly expefted. The Ameri
can (hip is also said to be retaken. The
captains of the Antigua and Albion are ar
rived here in the privateer, but their vessels
have not been retaken, though there is a
probability that it may yet be the cafe, as
the Phaeton is gone in pursuit of them. The
(hip Chatham has loft nearly all her fails in
a gale of wind, and all her crew aflPfaid to
have died on the passage, except the captain
mate and two seamen. Arrived also the
f:ip Sarah, captain Til/lone, from the We:l-
I n dies."
It appears from the following extraft of a
letter from Alderney, of the date of
30, thit the French have not- yet abandoned
the wild and chimerical idea of inva.ding this
; country or Ireland, and that a new expedi
; tion is fitting out at Brest for that purpose.,
j We have little anxiety refpefting the result
of such an attempt :
" We are_ at this moment well guarded.
Sir Richard Strachan is expefted every hour
from Spithtad in the' Diamond, to join thtj
other (hips of his squadron off this island ;
the Flora, eapt. Middleton ; Svren, capt.
Goffelin ; Pearl, capt. Ballird ; Cormorant,
capt. Searle ; Camilla, enpt. I.arkin ; and
the Serpent, capt. Buckle. The Solebay,
capt. Poyntz is also expefted. The French
have unrigged their frigates at Havre, and
fenttheir seamen to Brest. On the 31ft of
August, no less than 25 chafle m_ rees which
we supposed to be gun-boats, came out of
Cherbourgandeaufedusfomeuneafinefs, but
they tooktheirroadquietlytowards St.Malo,
and we have since information, that they car
ried the seamen from Havre to Brest, where
there is an armament fitting out with all ex
pedition, either for England, or Ireland.
FHere is now in Cherhoug Road a corvette,
two luggers, and only one gun brig in a
state of but they will not
move while the frigates keep off Cape La
Hogne."
<Ssasette*
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 11.
From 'jur Char 'ejlon Correfpundrnt.
Charleston, Nov. 21. 1797.
A most daring plot has been discovered
within this week, —a number of French ne
groes, had entered into a conspiracy, and
were preparing ficerrr* ofmaflacreand/laugh
ter, fimilac to tfaofe which ravaged the Cap*.
Happily for our citizens, the plot was dis
covered before it had time to mature, and
we are thus rescued from scenes of havoc
and distress at which human nature shudders.
Two of the ringleaders were executed this
day, and a number of others are in confine
ment. The witnesses brought forward a
gainst these fellows were clear in their cri
mination, and the \rh»le plot has been laid
open to our view. Chriftwas day was fixed
upon for thom to commence their bloody
work—The magazines were to be'blown up,
and parties stationed at each of the church
doors to massacre the citizens as they came
out. They chose that day for beirtg best
calculated to answer their hellish purpose*;
as they supposed that almost every person
would be in some one of the churches ; and
thus unarmed, or unprepared, fall an easy
facrifice to their bloody dffigns. By firiig
the town in different parts they would have
created confufion, and men, women and
children would have been massacred' without
the pofiibility «f resistance.
The discovery of this bufrnefs, «va« as fal
lows ; two mulattoyoung fellows belonging
to a French gentleman by the name of La
Bvter having overheard so much of the con
verfatioft of the two»fellowt executed this
day [Jean Louis, belonging to Mr. Robi
net the cooper, and Figaro, belonging to
Messrs. Frink and Langftaff] as led thcoa
to apprehend another St. Domingo affair,
earnestly solicited their master to lepe
this country ; he, however, paid no at
tention to their request ; but a (hort
time after oic of these young men was so
licited to join the conspirators with th« of
fer of the command of a company. He im
mediately communicated ihis to his master,
who advised him to pretend to give into
their schemes, and thus draw forth a com
munication of the whole plot. This he did,
and Mr. La Berter giving information to
the intendant, 15 of the conspirators were
arretted—two of them were condemned to
be hung—three to be transported, and the
remainder were remanded for further exam
ination.— Every thing is quiet at prifent—
The citizens mount guard nightly as a m;a
fure of precaution ; but no apprehtnfions
are entertained of any difturbancea.
APPOINTMEN TS—BT aothokitt.
Otway Byrd, of Virginia, Collaftor of
Norfolk aiid Portsmouth.
Ebenszrr Storer, of Massachusetts,
Infpeftoi of the Revenue of Survey No. 3,
in that diftrift.
John Read, of Pennsylvania, Agent to
assist the Attorney-General in relation to the
6th article of the Briti/h Treaty, agreeable
to an ait of Congress.
DavidLkonard Bainis, of Rhode-Isl
and, Diftrift-Attorney.
Samuel Wi lliams, of Maflachufetts,
at present consul at Hamburgh, appointed
canful at London.
Thomas Crafts, of Massachusetts, con
sul at Botirdeaux.
Richard Yates, of Maryland, consul
at Aux-Cayes.
Chaunce* Whittlejbt, of Connefti
cut, Colleftor for Middletown.
From VIRGINIA.
ALARMING CIRCUMSTANCES BOTH AT
HOME AND ABROAD.
The French Triumvirate have banished
from their government all the friends of A
merica, and appointed Fauchet and Adet,
who as good as spit upon us to meet our
Commiffionets
The cut-throat Santhonax who robbed
and plundered our vessels, instead of meeting
with a halter as he deserved, has been invi
ted to a feat in the Council ps Five Hun
dred.
After these circumstances, the Executive
of Virginia have denied the Federal Judge
the use of the public Bell to warn Jurors
and others that JuJltce mujl r.ot Jlep. Alas,
Virginia, the Fed ral Courts are too fond of
speedy jufticc—the Judge, firm in his pt'in-
ciple, has e%sifti«d a Horr. in Keu of the
Bell.
For my.own wrt,.-!'CJnnot the
, drift of this from T believe not
the mod enlightened Council of, tlic 7 present
unlefs it i- inl-uded. <ts a recommenda
tion to an aiTemhh", compofsd cljieHy (io
?he opinion of many ) of men unfriendly to
the general Governmtnt —let it be under
jftoodi that this council is dependent on the
legislature for their continuance in office.
Surely fucli !qw popularity,icaii
ncft, with candid minds, tail to excite con
tempt.
CouW men :hun'er *
As J.ive ; imfelf' docs, Jove would ne'er
be q 'i rt :
Fo'- every p~ltinjr, petty <>Ri er
'Wcrulri use hie He.iv'n {us thundt.* ;
And proud :7'.an, 1 1 , .
Dreft in a. lirtle hyef antharhjni 1*
And m-oft ignorant of \*J] it he's moftafliH-'d,
r Hisfrbifs rfTeiieei lik -in aHcry /\^e,
Piays fucli t'ant alt'ek tricks before Jiigh
Heav'n,
As make c-'.» Ang<*'. > weep.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived at Marcus Hool-
The fchr. Good Intent* Potter - ) r
Sloop Dolphin, Dikes i n . , rom ,
—-- Sally, Potter \ R.chmond
The Ship South-Carolina, from Charles
ton, Germon, has got up to Maraus Hook.
The Ship Thomas, Holland, from hence
to Amsterdam, was fpokcOft. 6, 15 leagues
W. S. W. from Scilly all well.
A letter from Captain Boyd, of the Jhip
Superb of this port, dated ft he 24 th ultimo, in
lat. 38, long. 75, 20, mentions his hav
ing that day fell in -with the Britijh frigate
7 bet is, Captain Cochrane, -who had ordered
the Superb for Halifax ; fbe wax from the
Htiiatina, bound to Hamburgh.
7he Superb is one of the, vefftlt, seen in
poJfijfv,ns of the Thetis, ly Captain hahiree,
the ether zucs the Diana,jlr.ee arrived at Nevf-
Torl, (fee our paper of the 7fb unjlarti,) .
The folio nuing Br 'fUfj Jbips of <war lay in
Hampton Roads, on Tuesday last.
Resolution, 74, Admiral Vandeput,
. JfJlance. sc, Commodore Mowatt,
Thetis, 38, Captain Cochrane,
Prevoyante, 38, IVemyft,
Topa%e, 36, •• Church,
Rover, —, ,
The Thetis is to proceed to Halifax and the
Prevoyante to the IVejl Indies, the others
winter in Hampton Roads.
The Jhip /Iplxtbet, Captain from
Lijbon, to Norfolk, is taken by LePrevoyante,
and ordered for New-Providence.
Thefchooner Telegraph, Captain Correy,
of this port from the Havanna, is cindemned
vejfel and cargo, at Halifax. The brig Po
mona, Captain Crocket, of this port, from the
Havanna, aft is expected tofbare thefame fate.
New-York, Dec. 9.
Arrived. dati.
Ship Swift, Depeyljer, 1 Calcutta 120
Two Friends, Billings,, N. Provi
dence 19
Sehr. Ajax, Raymond, St. Viocents 33
Peggy, , Norfolk,
Sloop Charlotte, 8001, Cape Francois 20
an embargo for 21 cjayl, befove he failed, on
account of the failingofafquadron of French
frigates, and that Barney's frigate had failed
under the command of the firft lieut. but it
was not known whether Barney had resign
ed or been recalled.
Capt. 800 l informs, that theie had been
Ship Swift, Depeyfter, ijo days from
Calcutta, Oft. 17, touched at Sf. Helens,
left there the British foip Just, of 64 guns,
capt. Bulbare, and the Minerva, sugar (hip,
of London, Nov. 20, lat. 2, 10, long. 6j
30 spoke Brig Eliza, Benuetfrom Norfolk,
bound to Gaudaloupe, who three days be
fore, had been boarded by a French priva
teer, and had carried Hway his mainmast.
Nov. 28, lat. 33 to, long. 72 19, spoke
brig Martha from St., Thomas's and sloop
Carolipe, from Providence, bound to New-
Yvrk, Dec. 4, lat. 38, long. 76, spoke
fchr. Bellona, from New York, bound to
Wilmington N. C,
Ship Betsey, capt. Moore, was to fail
from Calcutta 3 weeks after the Swift.
Ship Franklin Bailee, and Maria, were
at Surinam Ift Nov. and also brig Maria
Hulda, Price.
The (hip General Lincoln, went on shore
on Tuesday evening at Killingworth Point,
22 miles to the East of New Haven—they
had cut away the foremaft and mizen mast.
Boston, December, 4.
Arrived brig Delight, Dean, from Rotter
dam, 42 days Left at Rotterdam, 09. X,
Jbips George Wajhington, Donaldfon, of Balti
more,jujl arrived.
Arrivedfclr. Triton HUlman, Capefrancois,
35 day 4. Left, there U. S. brig Sophia, Ma
ley, on her route to relieve diftrejfed American,
seamen.
iihim—snuwawiww
" rL " "■ " - J -
NEW-YORK, December 6.
That monarchy which isconftituted by
the free ihoice of d nation, is a legitimate go
vernment. That republic which is erefted
by force, despotism.
That monarchy which governs hy"Jixed
laws, enafted by the will ps a nation, is a
free government. That republic, which is
not governed hyfixed laws, or whose consti
tuted authorities can violate the laws with
impunity, is an arbitrary, tyrannical gov
ernment.
Ehthtifiafts are governed by names and
imaginary theories. An Enthufialt <n a le
giflativc body is as dangerous as a madman.
Give me a republic, l3ys the enthusiast,
and lam fatisfied. Give me a free govern
ment, fays the sober rational (latefman, and
I am fatisfied.
A republic I will have, fays the demo
cratical maniac. If my fellow citizens will
submit to my will and choice, and live under
ft lieu of the
a v?public, very well ; if not, I will mile
tliem submit. Every man who does not
think as I do, is a traitor—and death or
banifhaient awaits him.
Says the rational citizen, I prefer a re
public ; but the will or choice of a majority
:nf my fellow citizens must decide what form
of government is- most proper for the society
50 which I belong-. To that will I submit,
because it is the only legitimate source of
power. A monarchy or arillocracy found
ed by that will, is a lawful government—a
republic not founded on that will, is ttfurpa
tion.
111 government as in religion men wrangle
about names and forms. Whether men ar;
pagans, mahometans or christians, would be
of 110 to civil society, if one
feft would let the other alone ; nor is it a
matt er of any moment, what is the form of
government over a nation, provided it is es
tablished by eh'/tce. In religion, all men
have to do, is to let each other alone. In
government the nation (hoiild be free to
cboofe, and whatever form is cho'fcn, the
ehoice (hould be acquiesced in.
HALIFAX, (N. C.) November, 27.
Extradt of a letter from Raleigh, dated
November 21.
" Yesterday the General Afiembly met.
The Senate made choice of Gen. E. Smith
as speaker ; the House of Commoiiirballot
ed for a speaker last evening, and the votes
between M. Matthews,Efq. andjohn Skin
ner, Esq. were equal—consequently no ap
pointment was made—This morning there
was another balloting, when Mr. Matthews
was elefted by a majority of four."
Much business of a very interclling nature
will come before Congress, and will proba
bly be difeuffed with great warmth :—The
depredations made upon our commerce,with
the other effects of our neutrality, and our
fituicion between hottile nations, will cer
tainly form th« bafisof principal regard.—
The jealous prying eyes of Europe will
watch our motions.
The present situation of our legillature
and executive officers is delicate—lt is aw
ful : The Congress of 1776 had scarcely
less depending on them .• —Firmness, calm
ness, accurate examination of fafts before
resolving, and derision in executing their
resolutions, are at all times necessary in rulers
but have ever been more so than at the jre
fent moment.
FROM A LATE LONDON PAPER.
The folio-wing is a correff lift and difpsjition
of .he Britijh Navy.
The jo gun fliips are included in the statement, as
they hare, »pon fevetal occasions, this war, been
taken out into the line of battle, and have often
proved themselves entitled to the rank
. %be Cbartntl Fleet,
Guns. Ouns \
Royal George 110 Montague 74 |
Royal Sovereign 110 Defence 74
Queen Charlotte Ho Leviathan 74 I
Prince,late9B,now In Magnificent 74
Formidable 98 Powerful 74
Atlas 98 Mara 74
Duke 98 Ramilies 74 1
1 lOnilnn _ 98 Msjtdir 74
Glory 98 Cumberland 74 ]
Princess K oyal 58 Marlborough 74
Sans Parcil 84 Robust 74
Cafar 84 Minotaur 74
L'Tmpeluex 74 Saturn 74
Triumph 74 Terrible 74
Idgar 74 —j
Defiance 74 Total 31
Heflor 74
Admiral Vur.cans Fie t.
Cuns. Guns. 1
Veneralile 74 Veteran 64 :
Ganges 74 Ardent 54
Ruflell 74 Agincsurt 64
Warrior 74 Standard 64
Monaixh $4 Gbttoii r 54
Lancaster 64 I lis |
Agamemnon 64 Adarr.a » .{0
Bclliqueut J4 Leopard so '
Naflau 64 -
Director 64 Total ar
Lion 6a
The three last 64's hive not yet joiped him.
I_.trJ St. Vintents Fleet.
Guns. Guns.
Ville de Paris 110 Goliah • 74
Salvador del Mundo i?z iwiftfure 74
*..n Joicf Hi Ca tain 74
Viilory I I'o Egmont 74
Bti'-nnnla HO (rrefiftaMi 74
St. George 98 Excellent 74
B3rfleur 98 Coloflus 74
Blenheim 08 Bellerophon 74
Namur 98 Alexander 74
Prince George 98 Audacious 74
Gibraltar 84 Orir-rv 74
San Nicolas ( 84 Diadem 64
San lfTaor 74 Leander 50
Zealous ' 74
Ttiifeus 74 Total 18
H eji - India, Jamaica, America, and Ifett'fotind'und.
/ Gune. * Guns.
Queen 98 Vengeance 74
Prince of Wales 98 York 64
Brunfwiek 74 Asia 64
Resolution 74 Scipio 64
Qarnatic 74 Diflator 64
Valiant 74 Abergavenny 54
Be'lana 74 Madras 54
Ifred 74 Romney %p
Thunderer , 74 Afiillante 50
1 vincible 74
Hannibal 74 Total 20
Eajl Indies and Cape of Good Hope.
Guns. Guns.
Suffolk 7.4 Stately 64
Tremendous 74 Trident 64
ViflorioHi 74 Van Tromp 54
Arrogant 74 Jupiter JO
Dortrecht 66 'l'rufty 50
Intrepid 64 Centunon 'SO
Inflexible 65
Raifonable 64 Total 13
Sceptre 64
Thefollmvi'tg Jbips at home, either now employed on tem
porary finite, or lately returned from foreign flat ions
Ouns. Guns.
Neptune 98 Zealand 64
La Pompct 80 St. Albans 64
San Damafo 74 Ruby J4
Canada 74 Nonfueh 64
Vanguard' 74 Brlkcl J 4
Ceutanr 74
Polyphemus 64 Total 13
OveryfT<-l 64
It appears from tils foregoing diftribtl ion, that
• Great Britain his 128 fail o! the line of effe#ive fliips
> ailing agninft the combined naval forces of Francs,
fpaiii, and Holland, exclusive of 21 others em
ployed as guarj-fhips. prifon-Iliics, bofpital and
receiving irlps.
; NF.W THEATRF,
j V. ill efpcn TI J.i CV'JSJVIS-O, Oetenihcr iij
V It!/a Coahc Of £a «, called
rol3in Hood •
Or, Sherwood Fore/i.
t rksidexts in 7uz Ponns-T.
I Robin Hood Ml- Dar'i-v
Little John Mr Wig.xil
Sc3rlet Mr Francis
,Bowman Mr Warrell
Archers, Me fire. BliflVt.T. Warrell, Doftor,
Lafferty, Sully- &c.
Alkn-n-Dale, Mr Warrell, jtjn.
Stella Miss I,' Eft range
Shepherdesses, Mrs Harwood, Mrs Dodor,
Miss Anderfon, See.
VISITORS TO THE TORF.iT.
Ruttekin Mr Bernard
(Being his firft appearance in Philadelphia)
Friar Tuck Mr Warren
EfKvi n Mr Mar/hall
Clorinda Mrs Warrell
t Anette Miss Milbourne
Angelina Mrs Oldmixon
With the original Overture, by liaimgartcn. I'hc
reft of t!?e Music and Accompaniments. compo
sed by.Shield, with additional'airs hy Mr. RcU
ni«rle.
Tho which will be added, a Comedy, in two a&s.
called.
the lyar:
Old Wilding, - - -Mr. Warren
Young Wilding, - Mr. Bernard
Sir James Elliot, - Mr. Warrell, jr.
Papillion, - - . Mr. Mar/hall
Servant, - - Mr. F. Warrell
Miss Grantham, - Mrs. Francis
Miss Godfrey, - - Miss L'Eftrange
Kitty. - - . Mrs. Do&or.
Box. on? Dollar ; Pit, thr:r quarters of a Dol
lar ; audG-alleiy, half a Dollar.
£5" The doors of the"l'h l -atr« wi'l "ppco at five,
and the curtain rift: precisely at fit o\i \x.
Places (or the Boxe« to be t ifcen ar the Office iti
the front of the Theatre, from io tiii a o'clock,,
aui from IO till 4 on, the days of pcformmce.
*1 icke's to be had at H. and Rice's book-jtor.%
No. jo Market-ftre«>. an* at the Ofllcs adjoining
the theatre. VJPAT RZSrUKT.ir./l /
New Aileinbly Rpom,
South Fourth Greet, be;wecn C'Kefnut'Tmt V/ainnt
fireets.
Mr, FRANCIS,
OF THE NIW-THEATfI^,
RESPECTFULLY informs hisfcholars and the
public in general, that bis Academy for Danc
ing will commence, for the season, on Thursday,
December n, at the above
ELEGANT ROOM ;
When he hopes to receive the continuance of their
accustomed patronage, which it will be his uure
mittmg endeavor to deserve.
The days of teaching for hit young pupils are
Thursdays and Saturday-', from 5 o'clock in the
titernoon till 6, and from 6 till 9, for those of a
more advanced age.
As an accommodation to those living in this vi
cinage, Mr. Francu intends to inftruit a small
party of children on Wedncfday and Friday after
noons, at his house.
Di(lin<ft from the Balls, Mr. Francis
will have four private felecft Subscription Balls.
Private teaching, either at the Academy, or his
house.
Mr. Francis's firft Pri&iGng Ball will be on
Tuesday, 19th Dec. at the New AlTembly Rcom.
Ladies and Gentlemen's tickets to be had, by
applying to Mr. F. u usual. '
For further particulars, enquire of Mr. F. No.
70, north Eighth flreet. Dec. II —mwftf
A Fifty Dollar Bank Note,
Of the Bank of the United States, was 101 l on Sa
turday lift, between the Batik of the United States
md the Hois; market—lf an honed person has
found ir, and will leave it with the Printer hereof;
they (hall be handsomely rewarded.
December II ccdjt
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
(.'.fclion for twelveDire&ors, fertile enliing year,
will beheld at the Dank on Monday, the Sth of
January rext, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cajhier.
December n. dtßth[
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
THE stockholders are requeued to meet at the
company's office, on Tuesday, the lath December
inft. at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, on important
business.
WM. MOORE SMITH, See'ry.
December 11. 2t
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal,
THp.Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
eleflion forPrefldent and Manage]«, for the erifu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, en
the fir ft Vonday in January next, at 100'cloek,t.M
WM. MOORE SMITH, See'ry.
December if. mwC.-/tiflmJ
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal.
I'HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
ele&ion for President and Managers for the enfu
ingyear, will be held at the company'i office, on
the firft Monday in January next, at 10 o'clock,
a.m. ■* Dec. ir. mw&ftiftmj
J? Those who are Creditors of
the late firm of ER '.SM'JS JACKSON S3* ,Co. or
of J. MU3SI, arc requcfted to attend at a meeting
to be held on fusfday the uthinfl. at M'Shane's
Taverr, in Third Street between Market and Mul
berry Street, at 6 o'deck in the evening, o
December 11 2 t
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
Richard Ssf James Potter, '
IS this day diflolved, by mutual co«fent. All
perfons indebted to the said firm, ar»req*efted
to [Ay the fame to either of the fubferibers; and
all petfons having any demands against them, are
requeued to fend their accounts foi settlement.
Rithard Potter,
James Potter.
December 9 §
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. O. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 118 Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfe«S in the French Lan
guage, that he has jult opened'his Library, con.
filling of upwards of i%'_a volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either inftruflion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be f'een at every book-feller's
in town.
N. b. All translations from the French,
English and Spanifli Languages, cxecutea with ac
curacy and dispatch. coim now. 15.
Geenteel Boarding & Lodging.
A Family may be accommodated with a Draw
ing Hoona, two Bed Chambers, and iuit. : e
accommodation for fervanu —at no. 53, noiti.
Fourth street. Dec. ; ,« ttsA farm for sale,
IN Perth Astiboy in the state of New-Je(fey,
ot (cur hundred a -res, including a pro cr
proportion of meadow, of arab<x and
land, and f.,l[ marsh : Theieis on ttjc prr iif.!-,
•" pood app'e orchard, and a Variety ot sitlitr
l.uit trets, it is well,watered with fpri"gs and
• ks, it is bounded on two fides with ruvi
i gaide wafers and has a good mill lite, if* fitiM
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the .navigation of Perth and irs
environs, and tonvenie.it to the fine;', fi!h and
oysters in their proper season, it abounds with
natural manure from wl:ich, with the aiivanta
|>es of the fait m trlh by npph ing the haytl; re-,
iioni !o the keeping of (toe!;,'may at a* f,'.:ah
exnenfe, be enriched to a great degree and ren
dered urte of the firft gracing firrrtjs in the state ,
it is well calculated for a fttrmyr or a gent.e
maa's feat, having several
budding. Thi« farm, will be fold together Or
divided, a 9 may suit a purchafcr, at private
Ale, or if not fold, will be set up at public auc
tion on Toefday the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the honfe of P.tittfrt liuttaon*, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. Any perl'on inclining to purci;: fe
may view the premises by application to John ;
or M.ittbia; Haljied at Perth Amlioy, from
\v ncm or from the Hon. "Jo>ia\ban Dayton, Efijf.
speaker of the .houle of representatives of the j
United States now in Philadelphia* from Mat
.tki.if lVi'namJfbn,\\xx\. efq. or Air. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town further information may be
obtaWd, —and who are pofTclTcd of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. x 6, 1797,.
2- —eodtißD
Salisbury Estate.
Subscriber, proposing to his bufi
pefs, offers this Ellate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blafl arid three Air Furnaces,
A C'impl?'e BoVeing Machine, and a very grift
Witt, with two pair of (tones ; also a good F6rgr, all
in perfect repair, as are all the Water Works connett
ed with these various branches. ' The Air Furnaces i
were lately built tor the #urpofe of casing Cannon
• for this State.—There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, theolhcj
very fine arable Land, producing ihe best Hay and
Pasture. The Car>nou lately mmnfatiured there,
fully proves the excellency of the meial, is,
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in rtie world ; for not oue ot fixty-ninc guns \
lately made, alth( ugh some of the 24 were bort'd |
into3l DMunders, have taihd on proving. fnu- f
aiinn u. very digit le, particularly for this branch of I
manuf»£fcurt-, and a place of aim* lying in the ftite j
of ConncdieAjr. and only 30 miles from ftveral land* |
ings on the Hudson's 1 iver, and having every advan
tage tha: can refuit irom a plenty of water ifluing
from a large'nafural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The. purchaser can be accommodat
ed wilh all the stock and utenfi!s, and have poffeflion
on or betorc the firlt of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time tor going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, son evtiy pan vyiil be delivered
Hk good orUer, with fqme coat, Ore, &c. See, For
term?, apply to Mr. Joseph Antlvvny, in Philadel- .
phia; Davirt Brooks, E'q. one of the Reprrfentatives
:n Cot grefs tor this Stare ; Mr, D.vid Waterman, on
theprcmiies, or to the p ootictor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEJLSON.
Pee 1. gawtf
Houie and Lots, in Bordentown. \ \
r jPO BE SOLt), a handf6me two story House. ,
tL with the Lot on which it is eroded, fuuared I (
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy j
Viijage of Bordentown. The heufe is forty two j
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main ■
Ureet, and extends with the fame breadth tubatk 1
ftrcet. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four 1
acres, fcparattd from the former by back llrett. 1
One third only of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the j »
er m.iy chnfe. This propers will be soK 1 freo •• I
all inenmhrafiees, and an indiifputable title jrivcnf ! i
For farther particulars enquire cither of Dr. I I
William Burnes, refidiug in Gordentown, near. ]
the preaufes, who wUI shew the fame, or of ]
PETER THOMSON, I
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-Ureet.
December a. 3awtf
Real Kftate for
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si- 1
tuation on Chester Crtck, in Middleton J
TownUnp, County, containing 119} 0
acres, upwards of 50 acres of Which are wood 11
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land a
add watered meadow—of the latter, uiar.y more p
acres can be made at a small expence. There are a
on fsid premises, a good orchard of best grafted [j
fruit, a iioufe, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with stabling under, and a log tenement on
one part of said place Any psiToa inclining
to purchase, may view the premises by applying
to Wm. I'ennbi.l, on said farm, and know the
terms by applying to Jonathan Pennell, in the
borough of Cfeefter.
November 11. jt eed "
To be Joid,|
An ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain- r
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brici^Houfe and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irifti tr:H lane, in the ®
township of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will n
be maae known upon application at the office of n
the Philadelphia Gazette. b
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
elegance, Hand unrivalled. g :
December 1. dtf a<
All Persons who are indebted to
the eilate of William Hevsham, fen. of Phila
delphia, deceafcd, are requested to make speedy
payment; and those who have any demands a
gainst said eflite, will please to present them, pro
perly attested, to the fubferibers.
William Heyfham, ~l
Robert Hcyjham. > Executors.
Francis Bowes Say re, J
november 6. ~aw4 w
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market Ureet,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals from
London and Dublin, their fprisg importa
tion, confiding of a variety of thelauft and most
approved I.aw Books, whkb,addedtothofe alrea- N
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive collection cv- £.
er offcredfor sale in this country. Thcytheiefore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
connefliensin DuWin,-they a*c enabled to fclllrifli
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very 111
lowed prices. The following are among the latelt "
publications. ' ; s 'i
Vefey, juu'rs Reports m Chancery, 1 vJ.t.
P»ake's Cases at Nisi I'rius ; Ridgeway's Rejorts
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floyer's Procters
pradice in the Ecdefiaftical Courts ; Barton's
Trtatife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of Bench in Personal Anions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Ufcs ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Ricr pxpetft t» receive by the firft ar- R:
rival from New-York the 6th vol. conyjlete of ' '
Durnford and Eafl's keports, the 2d plfrt of Oil- to
bert'sLawof Eviffeuce by Loft, andanum':er of ac
new publications. w<
June »6.
I A pcrfon' weil acquaintcJ \yiih
. | thecfieoryandpradiceofhook-ueepirij;,whoh*sVcH-n
. vvjuM be gUd Co h ■ ab. an agenr/
or iiutior; of in pofi hooks £'lUtjn'i> untitled
• accounts ; or in ex,'' u' iig any oilic. kind of writ
tT iug, in Frni'ch orKngli/a,
A ncte addressed to j. A. and left at tin a office,
n ' wiW be punctually attended to.
••• November 30. . 3 awtf
a . -
! lit DM A S is A N DAL L,
PRESENTS his to hi* Friends, at 1 '! the
a " Public in general, in-orrns .hat he lvk«opened
c-J wi Qi&ee, atbishoufe, No. 88, Spruce ifcreet, lor
ill t {.he purpofc of traufailing bu6h?fs in the line oi'
n- Commiflion and Agency, rents aijd oiit-'
: , landing claims in any part ot U\e 'Jni.U.d S:«>res
e- He flatters himfelf, that .from his long refulence in
ur this country and a generii knowledge cf it, liiiferr
>r clctt* will be found worthy the nonce of those who ■
may please to confide to him the management of
any of their concerns,
j. N* B. Security given where required.
1 _ nth mo 24 3ttwtf
n < FOR SALE,
le By the a£ hi*
n ; Water-ftrect,
" ! A general aflortmant of China
J e | Ware
" Black and coloured Sattlns *.
' j Do. do. I*Hteftrißjj»
Do. d-*. Handkercniefs
c Do. fewin^Silks
Imperial and Hvfon Teas
Loj:jr and (hort Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gitt, in pipes
Aflorted Glass Ware, in cases
Whfte and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
MolafTe«, in hoglhead*
e St. Croir Rum and Sugar, in do.
;, London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, 111 quarter calks
I j Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chests
Logwood, &c. &c.
s n*o 7—-tu&f4w JOSEPH SIMS.
For Sale, by the Package,
j For calh, or good notes at Cxty or ninety days,
viz.
j Book and Jaconet Muflint plain
i'i stripes, and Checks j ._.
,| do. <m. Tamboured Aflprud m
1 ! do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | PaLkages
- t gentlemen's neck do. J
f I Jacpnet cjiiu z muJlin for home and the Weft >
c j India marjiet, tVdic'ote and linen handkerchiefs,
"' for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz fliawls.
| The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
r portation. Also a few scotch cambricks and an
. afibrtment of muslin by tii,e piece.
' The \Wlole of the above being a consignment
1 from the in Britain.
■ To be seen at William Blackburn's
O.Tice, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. 6. lawtf.
notice! ~~"
THE Stockholders of the Baiik of the United
States, are informed that according to the
statute of Incorporation a general Ele&ion for
twenty five Direflors will be held attheßank
! of the United States in The City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firft day of January next at ten
! o'clock in the torenoon.
And pursuant to the Eleventh feflion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the laid Bank
arc hereby notified to alterable in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
day of January next at five o'clock in tfre fi
ve tiing.
By order of the Bflard of direftors,
G. SIMPSON, Cafhicr.
' S rrr >l"l Jlrtttk.
Not mofe'than three fourths of tne Directors
| in offik-e, exclusive of the President, shall be e-
I legible for the next succeeding year, but the
Diredlor who shall be President at the time of an
Election may a! way j be re-elc<fted.
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797., ftE
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs .
and EDIVARD FOX'S Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trilftees now inform thetn, they
are rcafly to iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply within Cxty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THCMAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JUN. 1
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER. 1
november,, 13. tuth&fim.
N u T I C E. ]
THE partHerfliip between John Instone and
James Bacon, under the firm of Inftoneand
Bacon, is this day difTolved by mutual consent
All persons who fl.-.nd indebted to fa d firm are
requested to make immediate payment of their
relpc&ive accounts, to John Sktrin, on Landen
burger's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all persons having any demands a
gainfl the said firm, are desired to bring in their
accounts immediately to him for settlement.
John In/lone,
James Bacon.
November 10. eodtf
For Sale, by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brown Holhnds
White Sheetings
Dowlafles '
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siamoufes ' 5
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glades, in *
in cases, &c &c.
■ George Pennock.
November 6. eod ;w C
_ FOR SALEI
By BENJAMIN CLARK, \
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets, C
A large quantity of Clocks and ®
' Watches, .rfj/b, a general afTortment of Toojs, {
Eiles and Materia!';, cosfißing of 6lock Move
ments, eight day arid thirty hour brass pinions j
and f»rge work ; Bells,, clock and watch Dials,
.Springs, Hands, GlafTes. Pu nice Stone, Emery, /,
Rotter. Stone, Cat Gut j bench, stand and tail r
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, Keys, Su. &e. c
* # * Apprentices Wanted. i
november 3. f&tntf t-
The liiftory of Pennsylvania, t
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will he published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZfcCHA- -
riah PoulsonJ jun. No. 80, Cliefnut-ftreet, q
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed ,propc.fais, until the
work is ready for the fubferiber#.
July 18.
1 Englitli Grajniuiir,
n fico'id edition, with iMpxa v.mtnis,
■' /A ED to the diS rent eia!Tr> of learnirs ;
1 f*- *«h an appendix, conminir;; and ob
u fervano:»»for aiiiftiogfile raor" luUancid lludents
to write with perp,tirt>ity and aoraey,
By LINDLE7 MURRAY,
" Thi< is ;i publication of wttca merit, arid f'.i.*,-
anf'.vets the profeffiol>s in tiie 'i'itle. 'i he appen
dit contains (ome of the tied'rules for writing e
h'gan<ly, jud with propriety, that we reeo'.leettJ
have Itch."
Mo'Ttbl'i Review, "July 179(1.
" Thiij Gfammar is, on many acco'.uv? enti'led
! ,-*° not' e, its jnatetiais hive been
j and juditiii'jfly felcCted ir»anaVigcfneiit
is jnd weil adjipt'd'to purpofe ol in
' 'lriiiSion ajid its esiwOiuu.js iimple, pvripitubus
and accurate, .&ci"
1 See tl>e,.f&ira&.er at large in the Analytical
f ' Exerrifes,
Adapted to the Cirammar lately published by
- parts qf lpcech, fa!l\) orthography,
tjUe rules of fyn:ax, defsds in punc
t "iiiation, and violations of tl •* rules reflpti&ing
perspicuity and skccuracy, defigne4 f«r the benefit
of private Reamers, a« well as lor thcufe of schools.
L " \Vg Iriye been much pleased with th- perusal'
of these Exercifeg. They occupy with diilinguifh
ed excfilence a most important place m tlie'fcjencf.
of the Englifli and as such, we can
warmly recommend tiienv to the Teachers of
Schools, a~s well as to all those who areHlefirous of
attaining corredlnefs and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review > Jnly 1797.
The above Books ire for sale at Joseph 5c J apses
.CrOksijanks book ftorsj No. 87, Market ttrect.,
December 1. 3taw2w.
N O T I C E. "
ALL persons co' terned are hereby notified,
that the intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of file United States—He for./
warded them under cover of ietter addressed to
John Anfley,of London, by the fhlp Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this port in June lad for Lot;,
ion. But that (hi'ii fiaving been captured or. her
pallage and lent to France, the above letter and m
clofurej hfcve failed in their defiihatiou.
Thiee certijicates, viz
Nos. 16326, 26327, each for
four fhures, dated January ift, 1797, and
ifTiJed in IheViatfie of Htury Grace, of Tot
terfham Hjghcrofs, Crsat Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
PI:1 a lAphia, rmvcmbcr. 8. 2aw6w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the of the city—for >vhich a generous
rent wtll be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more lor a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
OA. 17. eotf
A Gompting House to let.
A Most convenient Corapting House is now for
htre on Rbfs's \vhirf, dire<ifly over the arch.
For terms, to V
I . 1 Samuel Brecle, jun.
No. 89, south third dreet.
Where may be had,
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about 100
pieces t>f ftotitCanvafs ; a small quantity of Mace,
and fbme high pjoof Brandy ; sjherry \\Tine, Cho
cola.-e in boxes, Window GUIs of various sizes
and dimenfians. Dec. I.—eo6t
Samuel & iVJiers Fiflier,
ARE KOW OPEKiNG,
At their Warchoufe, Nr.. XT, Dock Street, a frefli
affortnwit «f W«>6len and other goods, fuitahlc£o
the f-ifon, receired by ttiel»te prnvalt from Eng
land. »?
The y have also far Salt,
Liibon
Sherrjrf and ( 1,1 P'P". ,,hds - and quarter calks-
Port Wines, J
AfTorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth me- 13d. diwjtawjw.
James C. & Samuel W. Fisher,
at the:r store,
No. 13, corner of Arch and Front streets,
HAVE rot SALE,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, aflorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futt romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat ftlk ditto
Ditto Pondichcrry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffeties
4000 piece. Nankeen*, and
Few chests best Hyfoa Tea
Alfo —1500 box -s bell London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and I 5 hhds. Glass
Ware, aflorted, which they willdifpofe of cheaper
than any in the city.
nagfcmlier >B. lawtf
Imported (via New York) on the
(hip Heio, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut flrect,
between Second a/id Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorens
Chintz athlCalicoes Dacca worked muslins
ByndartnOes
Nillas & Penfnloes C'haHa "Koihals
Blue cloth Hair ribboa
Pal
Patna do. Banares Opium
Lefler Cardimum Seedfc.
' Samuel Wilcox.
November 2y tuths4W
FOR SALE, er
Joseph Anthony Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeauxßrandy, ift and ad
proof, just landed
250 bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do d°
A quantity of heavy black pepper ii». bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits i
Old London particular Madeira v/ine / In pipes &
do. market do f qr. cafki.
New England rum in hogiheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
Sperr* ceri candles and ftrain'd oil i
Prime Boston beef
ChbiceHalifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels |
Do. Herring in do do 1
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare. i
New-Eng'and tow l : wcn
A few row? Cordage
RuHiu f. r •]. \
Clover and Timothy feed in ?a(ks
whale-bofte
No and 3, Boflon fail duck
A few firit quality Hyson tea • 1
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and i
An in\oice of Dutcli holJovr glass war^.
N "vernber 8. daw.
400,000 weight of choice. Stt. Do- I
mingo COIFEE,
FOR SALE BY ,
JAMES YARD.
novtmber ja
jawtf
For Sale,
Thativtll Jtnoivn Jtluce, tailed Va NDBGRiei's
'i ;•'» ••''s r f a. k v,
ON NefhaminyereeJc, 18 miles from Pfcila
ladelphiaj on the New York pnft road,
containing 74 acres and 04 pcrclic?. Upon the
jj'cniii'eiari; a larpe two llnry ttime house occu
pied is a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large trair.e ib)i!e with agoodthreflting
j ftopr, and l'otne out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. Oo
this place is a moii.eitg int litUJtion foragentle-
I nun s (eat, tfomnundi'ig a view tjie Neiham
! icy to its junction wiih the Oehvyase, and thence
, Jcrofs to tile Jcrfey (bore. ft lias the privilege
. pi One half the toll received from tfte bridge,
i For terms apply ti> the K^WcribtiV
MORi>iiC/il tiiVVIS.
! . Vay 24. ■
fale or to be let on . ground
rent,
A.paluable Lot of Ground ;
, QITUATE on the north-eaflcorner of Wai-
O nut and Fifth streets, fronting the i'tate-
Houle itjuare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut flieet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and at> half on Fifth street ; there are at
prefciit two small two story brick hobles, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient itores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
flreets, containing in front on Water ftrcet fjf
. ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninery-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These haufes
ave the conveniance of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a v,ery desirable filia
tion for a merchant, fiour faflor.or others who
miyhaveoccafion for ftornge of goods. This |
property wiltbe fold qn very real'onable terms ;
for cajh. For further information applv to the
printer.
July jt. miewtf.
"JuJi Published,
And to ho had of MefTrs. Do'.f, n, Campbell* Rice,
Gary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllci* in t'ie
one dollar, twinty-five ceutSjin.Voar !#,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of, America.
lly BENJAMIN SMITH BARtOk, H. D..
June 10. "M
School Books and Stationary.
W. Y q~U NG,
No> Kl, Second-ftteet, corn.r of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now reaiy for sale, a very large aflort
mcilt of Engltfi, French? Latin and Greet
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfo> fucli elemen- ary boaks
on ScieoccJ as are generally read in the,academies
and colleges throughout thp United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the fix.tl} edition, in, one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, iirge 12 mo price 1 dol. 75 cts. [
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
Ail fogts of drawing, packing, printirtg, and
writing Paptf ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paftpbor.ras,
(heathisg and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ©f
the best quality, used (n tke counting house, or
public office.
g? Catalogues of a miscellaneous colle&ion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. 24. —3aw6w
The Norfolk Mail STAGE."
THIS Stage starts from the GF.ORCJF. Tave-r.
.uiuar of neeontr and Arch Streets,' in
Philadelphia, every Tuesday, Tburfday, and Satur
day, at j o'clock, ia tl:e rr orning j arrives at Uo
ver the ftrft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and oo
the morning of the fourth »ay the paflengers find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdiy, Thurfiay and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Mnmlay, Wednesday and Friday j putt up at Snow
Hill thefirft night, at Dover the 2d night,and ar-.
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on thii route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, it So miles less than on any stage route
between those placet.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
(jiftance, so good a road in America.
Anguft ir. d 1 m. pots.
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent<l welling-r.oufe 30,000 dollars,
& calh.3o»oco, are jo.oo.
I ditto ij.oloo & cafe 15,000 40,000-
1 ditto 15,000 & calh I5»oqo aP.ooc,
x ditto 10,000 & calh io,oon ao,pno
1 ditto 5,000 5c cash i ,000 1 o.o'tc
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5, oqo 10,1100
I cafti prize of „ ro,ooo
i do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. I,OVO - • - lOjOQu
is do. 500 - - 10,001
00 do- 100 - - 10,000
»50 do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. ».t - - jo^ooq
1,000 do. ao - »0,000
ts,oci? do. 10 • 159,000
15,7.39 Prizes.
33,j6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight JDollati, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour'hofc who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,theorize of 40,000 dollars will lip
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but OKI :
And approved notes, fecu»ing payment in cither
monyy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, wil!
be received foi any number not lcfsLhan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elugant specimen el
the private buildings to be ertdled in the City of
Wafoingtoa—Two beautiful designs are already
(eleiVedfor the er.fifc frorttt on two of.the, public
squares; from these drawirgsif is ercel
twoceßtreswd r our corner buiidinprs'as JoontiEpof
litile after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ii:
the manner delcribtd in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
lie made to defray the nefelTary expenfea of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for »hc National Univerh'ty, to
be ertcled within the city of Washington.
The realfecnritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are Valued at
more than half the amount of the lattery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
„§ t Tieketsmay be had at the Benk ol Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilman, Boston : of John Hopkins, Richmond :
nnd of Richard \V«Hs, Cooper's Ferry. mvvf
diet
FOR SALE,
%hc Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Greco, commander, fiom Bengal,
Confifing of
of various qualities & prices
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs (Suzz.y do.
ihimliums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjib9
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Ma moody $ Checks
Maharagonges Pat&a Hhkfs. /
Oingbams Mylmul do.
Guzzenas Baridannots
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcocs Choppa Romals
Salgatchj'.s Sooty do.
Gillie Romals PerGans of various colours'
Mock Pulicats
2co tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Witlings & Francis.
The Piece Goads
Of the Ganges arc now open and expo fed to sale st
that commodious (lore the north wtft corner of
Market and Fourth street. Nov. to.
LANDING,
From on board theihip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
. * commander, frem London,
60 tons of the best clean Ruflia
HEMP
60 rafts of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. 21, Penn-iftreeU
Willings y Francis.
OA. 31. d
J lift arrived,
Frem and for Sale by the ftrtifcri
bers, No. ar, Penn-fireet,
6*2 hogfhcad*,^\
(Prime Coffee
646 bags
Hillings If Francis.
Odt. 2%. , §
FOR SALE the Si/Bicu'BEßS,
An elegant affcirtm'ent of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the bale.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
nor. ax. § T'enn-ftreet
FOR SALE*;
nr -JHE außscHiiiEss,
Madeira Wine, tirfl quality, in
_ pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York ouality, in pipes
Ltfhon WJNE, in pipes
CLOVESand") f . , , « .
NUTMEGS \ oltlle importation, mboxe?
Spanish Wool, in Bales, fuitible for Hatters.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. sr.
Nov. 1. w&stf
A Journeyman Hair-DrefFer,
is fuber and steady, and underflands
* » his business, may have immediate em
ployment, on application to GEORG£ AB
BOTT, No. 9, Chefsut-ftreet. nov.t7. ,
end 1 w.
Imported in the ship Manchester,
Benjamin Sheweli., Mafttr,
From Bourdraux, and for sale by the futferiber,,
No. it Walnut Stxct.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Iri(h market claret in cases / Entitled to
Medoc wiac, in. do. ' ( Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Myrgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casks
Rota do. . do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. ' tutSrstf.
Pf!ale's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated ta delight the mind
and enlarge the underflanding, is op ned daily, as
usual. It flands in an airy and 1 ealthy Gtuation,
and free from the epidemic that at prefect affliifts
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greitell fafety.
As an Aixufiment, the fludy of Nature is the
mofl rational and pleafnig : as a Science, the most
sublime and inflrudive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
11 IVitm Nature's worlj can charm, uvitb God bimfelf
" Hold ccnverfc."-
Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Mnftuin : ai:d the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the mod rare and beautiful
fubjedls, :j now very aivantageoufly arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of them
cafls from nature) are here dressed in their proper
habits, and placed in attitudes charafleri&ic of their
refpe&ive rations. Here may be seen the North.
American Savage, and the 3»vage of South-Ameri
ca —a laboring £hinefe, and the Chined Gentle
man—:tfie foity African, and the Kamtfchadale—
with some Natives of the South liea Islands. The
immense variety and inttrefting diversity which
this Museum offers to the view, may be seen but
oannotbe described with full efT«& a
£5" Price only of a dollar.
Seyt. iB. law
Davis's Law Book Store,
ATo. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time pafc in prepara
tions for removing infoliisprefent hoo<i,h«s.
been under thenccellityof poftponinguntil this day
informing the gentleman ofthe Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for iale, otj
termstbat he trulls will entitle him to rho iike pre.
freence he has experienced for leveral years part,
Catalogues, combining the most varied collco
tipn ever imported i«o this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application-
June 27. law
Boston Glaf's Manufactory.
"HE citizens of the United States are hereby
X informed, 'that the manuf'a&ure of Window
Glass is'now commenced at the Glass Houi'e in Bos
ton.
It is "netdlcfs to "fay any thing of the excejicnt
quality of the Bolton Girls, as it is i'o well known
throughout the United States to be in every rcfpe«ft
greatly fu per for to any ever imported from Etyope.
It will be cut to any fizt comntonly used ; and
may be confcantly had by applying to Charles F.
Ivui'FEß, at the Ghifs House.
Orders from the ciiftant States to be atadrefTed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30, 1797 O 4—?,a\v6w
JVteJfrf. Timothy and Mason, Chartifon ; Mejfri,
Hodge arid Boylan, Halifax, N. C Aieffrs. W
andX) y Connor, Norfolk ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejfrs. %'undtand Broiun i Baltimore; Mdrt r ,
Nexv-Tcrk ; and Mtfrs. Hudson Gcodwin, Hert
ford ; Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; are repicjled to i if it
the above onct a iveek 6 %v:ekf« Tke actounU to le sis*
u<ardid io the Editor.