of tijc and Philadelphia Dally Advertises.
Numsea 149 3. J
For Sale,
The fine and remarkably faft
Virginia and Philadetp!;'ui
Uurtheu VociK 100 ton*. For terms apply to
Rofs isf Simjlon.
June ii. dtf
For St. Thomas,
the ship
nn an( l Mary,
Captain Biilis;
A J WILL fail in ten days. For
freight or paflage apply to
F, COPPINGER.
No. 111, South FrontJlreet.
jtine 9. _ _diot
> For Sale,
A c t iv e,
On the 20th inft. at the Coffee-
House, at 7 o'clock, P. M, as (he c«me from seas
flieit known to be a faft sailer. Any paiticular in
forma'ion may be bad on application to,Capt. Bing
ham on bond said brig, at Meir. Jefle and Robert
Wain's Wharf, to John Plaokinhorn. or Thomas
S'ewart. Inventory to be seen and terms of pay
mentio be made known it the time of sale.
June 8. tf
For Sale,
the cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton'/ wharf,
, CONSITING of
,<i«4 hlids. of Claret "1 3
*l7 casts of ditto | *t3
100 cales of Sweet Oil -?
110 pipes London proof f ~ «
10 pipes of Holland prpof 5 'J W *S
Apply to
Wharton Ss 3 Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
• Said Brig,
WILT, lake a FREIGHT for
WreSSk. t ' le Weft-Indies or Euwjpe, fails
FjtfXij'. faft, burthen about fifteen hun
i<i»Stfciii3fe«sdred barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 24 §
For Sale or Charter,
THE «HIP
WARREN,
Benjamin Church, Majicr.
OF about tBo tons burthen. En
quire of
jeffe y Robert Wain-
May 16 5
John Tarris, mailer.
' \ GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
t\- (he will fail in ten days. For freight orpal
ige c-pply to capt. Tarris, at Willing* & Francis'
vbarf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 25 §
For Freight or Charter,
"^ r ig fame,
sesiasyfe 1 ; FRANCIS KNOX, M.fters
j strong, excellent veflcl, bis been just (heatlied and
Itady to receive a cargo. She will carry 2,000 bar
i, ~ has g<xjd accommudalions so palTengers.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
Jor.e 6.
HAY. _
\ Quantity of, excellent Old and New Hay to
be bad at Peel Hall Farm on the Wiffahickon
id, about i miles from the City.
4(o, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
[jure 8 §6t
FsXHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTELLIGENCE TO THE LADIES,
rusr received from London, two trunks of ele-
J gant BKUN'SWICK KfD Ladies' Shoes, of the
11 ft !jlh cnable* patterns and (hape now worn in
tbtcity, and will be fold fff immediately in (mall
qantiiies, alfirftc ft, forcafb, at Mr>. ENEFER's,
It. 105 Walnut lliect, between Thitd and Fourth
flcei's.
*.» The above v» s purchased of Mr. Fox, in
Itcadilly, who jnanutaftures for mod of the nobi
,\, and will be warranted good.
June 13 f -3'
John Miller, jun. & Co
Have received per the India, Afhmead, from
Qicutta,
A trell assorted small Invoice *f
Gurriha
Baftas
Coifacs
Calicoes
Bengal Stripes
Laid in reniarkably low, which tkey will fell ifor
cast or short credit ou very advantageous terns.
June 5. diwfrl4th
George Dobfon,
No. 3J South Third-Street,
HAS imported per (hips William Penn, Starr,
and Diana, from London, <
5-4 Super London Chinrt, elegant patternt,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimity's.
Fafhoaable Waiftcoating, oeweft patterns.
Ribbands well aiTorted, in small trunks. *
4-4 j- 4 and 6-4 India and F.«itMh Book-mus
lins.
Fancy Cloaths and CalTamiers.'
Th« whole to be disposed of cheap for Caih
or approved Notes of a fnorr date.
June 14, '97. <*• *- f -.
PUBLIC NOTICE
IS hereby .given to those persons, holding notes
of the fubferiber, thrft he will renew the
fame, payable in fix vears, with legal interest
{ram the date hereof ; and that notes will be
given as above to ail, who may have open ac
counts legally authenticated.
TIMOTHY mountford.
Mo. S. Second Street.
Philadelphia, June 10, J79?.
PHIL /.I D E L P 111 A
A Quantity of ikajady,
Gin, of 41k proof, in p.*)'«
Jamaica Spirits, 4th prypf, in Hhds
Old Hock. in tafcs of dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pinrs and half-pints
Window GUIs, in hoxe», of different fi/.is
Hazlenuts, in forks
Whiting
Copperas ( .
Whi r e Lead C ,n hbds
& Spanifb Broun J
For Sate by
PETBR BLIGHT.
4.
Rols tk Simfon,
Have fur Sale,
A OF PHIM.E
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
Jn Madeira Casks
A few Quarter Chests best
Fresh Hyfoji and ) . „
Hyson Skin { TEAS
Mufeovado Sugars in Hogsheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. ||tf
~C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY -informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Rhiladelphiaand its vicinity, that he
continues to perform all operations on the Teeth ; sup
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing—Clea-.s,
files, regulates, extta£ls, and fills decayed teeth with
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at their hcufes, and will be happy to re
ceive their commands by note, at Ulrs. F» n c h's, No.
68 north Eighth ftrect, or at his house. next to the
Black HoifeTavern, on the Frank for U road.
Dollfrs.
Scaling and cleaning 5
Artificial teeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5
Do. in gold focketsor fcrewj 7
'Natural eeth with ligatures 7
Do, on gold or ivory lockets, or gold screws 10
Filing and cutting away decay—each decay t
Filling with gold 2
Do. with lead %
Eotra&ing (to the families who employ him
as denuft) t
Do. where not employed %
Tooth powder of his own jfreparing 1
Brufhcs, best Londou manufa&urc 95 cents.
Regulating, See. according to the operation.
*p* C Whitlock will fell the time of a Negro
Man ; —he is honest and sober, and has about 5 years
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
June <5 (ffltthtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cbefnut Street^
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Ready assorted, very low on
ihort credit.
March 6. §
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
SITU ATE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every rcfpe& well finifhed- For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Cheftiut-rtreet.
May 3 1. j
Erlkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMfBKI.L & Co.
No. 40 South Second fiieet,
fPrict ji Cents]
A View of the Causes and. Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskini.
May 15 $
"WALKER KENNEDY,
No. 73, South Front Street,
Have for Sale,
Virginia Tobacco, of the|Rich«riond inspec
tion
350 bbls. Virginia' Flour andJMiddlings
500 bushels Wheat
5 calks Ginfang.
ALSO,
Three cases Routns Linens, entitled to the
drawback
200 pieces Bandannoes, and
100 cadies India Sewing Silk.
June 15. . thsw^t
Grattan and Comp.
Efpe&fully inform their friends, that they have
imported from London per the ship Star, a
large assortment of
PERFUMER Ty
Which is now opened for sale at their House, No.
19a Marlcef-ftreet.
Also, a new affoituient of ready-made gentle
men's linen, shirts from z dollars each to 8 dollars,
&c. &.C. &C.
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging at ten Dollars each.
ThoCe Gentlemen who nave their own private
lodgihgs, may be accomodated with dinner only,
by the week or month. •*"
Jane 5 6t
To be fold,
The time of a stout hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has upwards of four years to Serve. Enquire
at No. 25, Doek-ftreet.
dlw
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper thau any other in
the City—
OF FURIOUS SIZES,
From Bby 6t019 by 14,
By tlie (ingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
Store of the Subscribers, corner of Arck and Front
ftrcet.
• James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June' 9, 1797. *> 1 wmwfif
tor sale,
A fair of yfry kanJfomc
Bay Horses,
Near fixtcrti hands high, well broke, and per
fc<flly gentle. Enquire at Mr. K.clfon'i stables,
Church-alley.
Also, far ialt,
A Chariot and plated Harness.
Jnnerj. diop
By John Fe?>ino, N°' iip Chefnut Street.
PIANO FORTE.. ;
LONGMAN 13 BRODERIP':
TO OYAL Piano Forte with a green
IlV_ board, an ex4ellerft tontd inflrument.
sale at Mr Salteraj No, 56, S. Fcurth fiticn.
J»"e to. d rw/ ?
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and, by ,fub r cwp?ion, fhc
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the urigirfel in(Vi(utienand
fetilement of chat province, ui»d«r the fi'lt p<ipi i
etor and governor, William Penn, >iv iCBi, 'till
after the year 174 a; with
AN INrRODUCTION,
Refpe&iog the Life«of. Vv . PENN,
Prior to rttegtanc of that Royiftce, ami the reli
gious Society of the people calieii Quakers; witfc the I
FIRST R ISE of the N £ IGH BORINGCOLONIES,
mare particularly of JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCtt and SWEDEN o«i DELA
WARE.
Tp which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general state, in which it flouri(hed,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The
whole including a varietv of things, ufeful and in
tcreftiog to be known, refpeding that country ioearly
time, See. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years i7;6ind 178^,
By Robert, Proud.
'« Fulc/trum ejl rtipuUtcetiam bewdiccre
"ard abjuidum ejl t vel pace vel btllo durum fieri hut**
« v al. Cataliir.
«« Sid cum plerique arbitrentur res billuas maiaus eft
quavi urbanaSj mniuenda efl hatcopmi **'
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to taw. J
41 WILLIAM PENN, the great legislator of, the
Quakers, (in Pennsylvania) had the fuccefa of a eon,
queror, in eilablifhing and defending ills colony, a
mong fayage tribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodnels of the most benevolent rulers, iq trea
ting his lubjefU as his own children ; and the tqndcr
nefsof an univerlal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without diftm£tior> of.feft or party. In
hjs Republic it was not his religious creed» but per
(onal merit, that entitled every member of focicty to
the proteftioi and emolument of the State*"
EJfayon Toleration, by Arthur O^Lemry.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two odavo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep and
calf, tor the choice of the fubferibers; on paper fimi
lar to that of the conditions, as publifked in the Subfcrito
tion papers. *
11. head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
flcetch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent r to the
fecofid volume.
Ill' The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in (Vieep, and five dollars in calfon»
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfciibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firft; volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are (übfcribed
for, the work will be out to press and fiuilhed with
all convenient expedition. A
Subscriptions will be received by Poul
fon> j uo . printer, No, 80, Chefuut. ftrect, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fiflh-dreet ; by I/aac Col
hal* Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
Yo r k ; by John P. Pieafantsand George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country.
February 18. tu&f
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans' Court,
ivill abj'jlutili be fold as PUBLIC SALE, at
Cranberry, on WednrfJay, the tsd day of Auguji n
II 9 clock t A M, alljbat valuable fIEAL
late belonging fir {he Rev. Gilbert T. Snoivden, decefed,
lying in and near Cranberry, iu the county ef JM.iddl.fex,
totxnjhip of South Brunpwick, Hate of Nekv Jcrfey, up
on ; the lower Jlage road leading from Philadelphia to Ne%v \
; York. A very elegant framehaufe in a be. ut'ful and
\ healthy Jituation, pair, ted white, ivith Venetian juiflik-w !
flutters, thirty feet front and thirty eight feet deep, tu>o
rooms ivith a handfowe hall or entry on the fnji Jlocr,
three rooms on the second flozr and tivo ivcliftnijbed gttr~
rets. In the rear of thc jjoufe is an excellent iivo-fory \
building 37 feet by I<£, confifling of a dining-rocm fr
ivork people, fpatious pantries and a large lit den, u>iiL
every convenience, and over these are three chamber* for
fcrvants. To the right is an additional building 18 fist
front/.by 19 fist deep, tonfjling of a chamber biloio and a
Lbrary above—under the n hcle are very fine cellar s paved \
•with bricl and conveniently partiiler.ed. Tlie house ii en- \
tirely new, built in h modern fly If, and completely and e- \
legantly finjhed. Every room is buttg with bells thai
lead both to the kitchen and the fcrvants' apartments: there 1
is a pump Of good water in tie yard; and a fone and
bricl: pavement round the whole house, which is enclos
ed with a handsome railing, with three gates in front.
The farm\o't/tJls of one hundred and Jixty f'ven acres j
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden withpale fence; a large barn, Jla
bles, carriage-house, cow-louses, life, all new, and built
ia the best manner : with two Orchards, one of 60 full
grown trees, the other is young and thriving, confifling of
200 brji grafted fruit trees.
Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of IVoodland,
of the best quality, containing 37 acres. Alfa a trftft of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, and I of the Gross
tCoadi, containing one hundred aad ffty acres j three-fourths
meadow and the red excellent timber.
This Tra6l will be fold in lots on Thursday, tb* 24th
day of Augujl following:, at II o*clock, A M, on the
premises if the weather permits, if not at the house of
Air. IVitherill, Cross Roads.
For further frarticulars enquire of Nathanielrflunt,ef(j.
Cranberry, of Mr. faae Snow den, jun. No. 141 South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or of Mr' Charles Snowdcn
Tontine Coffee-Ifoufe, New TTor)t, or of the fubferibers.
ISAAC SNOW-DEN,Print4io*\ ~
JACOB FISHER, CrvAerry }
N. B. Pbefaleof the above property was aavertized
for the 14th inf. but the Adminiflrators were not able to
get the tivo fcp urate Trasis laid onf, with Lots and other
matters arranged, on account of the indifpofithn of one of
them fit was therefore adjourned to the days above mention'
etj. §6tmwfrf June 19*
Great Philolophical & Mechanical
Experiments,
To fee executed on every Monday, Wedfleday,
and Friday, at eight o'clock in theEvantng, at Mr.
M'Doutralla Dancing Room in fourth street, be
tween Chefnut and Walnut flrceti-
The force of Hercole. is. surpassed by artificial
Men.
The parfeflion of natuial philolophy by an arti
ficial .Lady.
Thi9 adroit and graceful Lady, will commence
her philofophie experiments by firing the cannco of
Volta.
She will melt metal by her fiery breath after
ward. dircd the eltiftric fire on a Jhiall House, and
deflroy it.
Sh« will blow out of her m.uth flalhes of fire
representing flaming flan, and finally conclude
the experiment t>v furpiiftiig feats, by a Angle
pistol fh.t, the will lull a bird perilling in front ,of
the theatre.
June 19. -- eod'jt,
TUESDAY EVENING, JUNE 20, 1797
THfc FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Traits of Land,
IN the couxty of Giyitu and state of Georgia,
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
on the eve:iing of Tucflay the ajth day ut June
next, at the Merchants Col Fee House in this ci
ty, unfefs previoufiy disposed of by private sale.
ift. 7COO acres on St. Simons 'Sound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town ofßrunfwick,
originally granted to John Howell, and withiu
6 iriles us the Atlantic oreati.
»d. 15,000 acres on the head waters of a
branch of theereat SauS'Ja, originally gmtited
to Ferdinaud O'Neal.
3d. 50,000 acres cu the waters cf the little
Satitla'river,/and of BufFaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Savilh read pafles through
these lands, which were originally granted to
Ferdjnand O'Neal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satflla river,
which are also' interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally granted tn
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, furvfcyor, and from Major
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the <
"body of these lands are not thirty miles fVom
the ocean, and principally within tide water ;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for
veffcls within "ten miles of them ; that they are
chiefly firlt rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
pofieffing the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementioncd certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andother papers rcfpe&in*
the title, which i*s complete and unincumbered,
are in the poiTefiion of rile fubferibers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terras of pay
ment will be one third cafli, the remaining two
■ thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, p?ya
blu in three and fix mouths after the sale j a
conveyance to be made to each on the
payment of that rtioiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZSfMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. codtf.
Samuel & Miers t'ifher,
No. 27, Diack-ftreet,
Have jujl received per Abigail, Balcoci, from
Belfast,
IRISH Cambricks, In boxes of 40 pieces
and 80 patches, each sorted up to 9/
sterling per yard.
They haw also received
7-8 § 4-4 Iri(h Linens well assorted
Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be fold for ready money, or ihort
credit, on moderate terms ; together with
a general assortment of Spring Goods as
tifual—Alfo,
Hunter's Pipes in boxes
An assortment of Queens' Ware in crates
An assortment of GTafs Ware in calks aad
crates
T. Crowley, Milltagton, Steel
Cargo' Sc Tendon particular Teneriffe Wines
Tifttcm Wine of excellent quality
Superior Sherry Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small "bales fine Cloths neatly assort
ed, and two bales assorted Flannels, to be
fold per package.
Juae 9. jtbw 6v
For Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the Unite 3
States, "No. 119, Chefnut-fireet,
The la/i Report cf the late Secretary
of the Treifury; being a brief history of the
(late of finauciil i-anctrns of the United States.
The Proceedings of thi Executive
of the United States refpeifting the weltern in
furreflion : Containing many faifts and cir
cujufiances no where etfe to be found. 50
rents. 1
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our ininifterin France. 37 1-1 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
17?.?-
A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete fette.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. 12 1-2 cents.
This Day is Publifhecij
And fold by H. (lf I. Kammrrer, jun. No.
24, North Third-Jireet, also, by iflr. Hen
ry Sireirzßß, No. 85, Race-fireet,
(Price half a Dollar neatly bound)
The Man of real Sensibility ;
Or, The HISTORY OF SIR G. tLLISON.
Founded <m Fast.
83* The elegant Edition of the Elements us Moral-'
ity, '» two vali, iUu'trated with twenty copper
plate®, may also be had a» above, price, fall bound
and gilt, two dollars and fifty cents.
H&I. K junrs. have on hand » quantity of No. 1
ancl 2 Writing Paper.
Valuable Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor oithe Gazette of the
* United States,
No. i»9 Cbefnut-Street, 4
[PRICE ONI ftOLLAR AND FIFTY CCNTs]
A FEW COP IF $ OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
tor the Year 1795,
Being th^liAT*st Period to >vhich an account
can be up.
February*!.
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, North Secondflrut,
A few doors above Arch-Ilrcet,
INFORMS his friend* and the public, that he has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowest terms, a
general assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tuinSltrj, plain and flowered quart, pint,half pint,
gill and half gill do. eia<& msa(Ure», decanters and
.vine jlaffcs ; gallon, half gallon, qiil.'t and pint
bowk, and chi .a in Ccts and separate ; pocket
bottle« : Schuyitill an J country yjjrt 'and
half pallon botiles; Cry Goods, BCc. ice.
N. U. Crates; ut up with cirt it Lh: fliorteil nc
tict-
May it. dtf
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the fiiglieft bidder, at 7 the hcufi: cf. Mr.
William Evans, the fij'n of the Indian
. Queen* in the crty-ol Baltimore, on the
day of October next, a: n o'clock, A. ' 6T
About fcveir thousand aero of land,
the property of William Bell, or Philadelphia,
lying between ReifterVtowp and Welliftiniler,
commonly callerUttle VVin hester, (the turn
pike road runs through a cenfiJsnble part" of
theft lands) the tra<. f t hcgiiu about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few handred yards
of f*iti Keiiler's-towu, and extendi/to (he dif
taqce of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, .and Lav o<n the main falls of Patapficd
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold In trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tra.sl,
fpjane of them highly improved, with.excellent
buildings jnd finegr. fs.'
At SO,
A tr&ft of seven hundred acres of
laud, called Clover Farms, within five utile) r.t
Bladenfhurg, jifecmcd very go,-d for Grass.
Uicfurd Punfonby, of Bl tdenibutgh, will (hew
this land to any jscrion inclmed to purchase.
ALfQt
A traft of land ©f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half o the Piefldent's house in the Pcdirf
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and'a fine
high profpetf, fro.i, which may be fceH th'- 1
city of WafitiiigfcE, Rladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, artd maify milei
down-the Potomac river. Mr, Richard
by, of Bladen (burg, will Jlfo fliew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money, ,'h« terms will
be made koSwnon the day of sale.
May 8 W3tn
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second flfeet.
TCICETS in the Canai Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 519 th May, POR.
SALE/ The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion a* the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of tne f?ve firft drawn tifckets, prizes of
lour thousand dollars each, on the last day at
drawing.
Check Books kepc for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Wafiiington, No.
2 f and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the ccurfe o£ the summer.
The bufi*efs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfadted with the
utmost attention.
June 2 tu&f
Chocolate and Mustard
. Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhlladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon—fyitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front llreet.
May 18 tU4W
Imported, in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-ft reel',
Hyson
Hyson Skin , Q
Young Hyson f 1
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
The Shareholders
OF tlie Pennsylvania Population Company,
are requested to meet at the Company's
Office, No. North Fourth Strtet, on
Thursday the 29th instant.
By order of the Board.
Solomon Marache, Sec'ry.
June 19. dt29th.
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extraft ot an a<ft passed by the Legislature of
the Hate of Marylar.cTon the 19th December,
1791, entitled, " An aft for eredling a bridge
o*er Potowmac river.
'• And be it enuHed, that the said dire<£)ors or
any two of them shall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion from each
aad evety proprietor, as may from time to time
be necefiary for carrying on the building of said
bridge ; and after giving three months public
notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the direc
tors to fuefor and rucover in the ramo of the
company such unpaM reqaifition, with all co£ft
and charges incidentalfhereto, and legal interell
thereon from the time the fame Ihould have
been paid: And the neglefl or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice lhall have
been given at least for three mouths in,all the
newfp.ipers herein before enumerated, ftail have
the effedt to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the lhare or (hares lb negleiSed or refui'ed to
be paid to the use and benefit of the company."
matron of such of the fiockholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow : Qn the ill November,
rjgt, io dollars, on.tlie 10th May, 1796, 40
Hollars; an tht »oth July, 17*;$, 40 dollars j on
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ift November, 1794, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid aud complete eflxft agaihft ail delin
quents.
By order of the Bircflors,
WALTER SMITH, Tnnfurtr.
Georgetown, May I, 1797. faw^tti
WILLIAM. "SANSOM,
HAS removed his Caantinjj houfc to No.
Arch Street.
' He has remaining on hand of the Cargo of ths
Ship Pigou,
from Canton,
" A few Bale* long Nankeers
• <~o ii to Ihort ditto y
A few Chests Iroperia.l Tet
4itt£ Young Hyson rfitto
WhU-li will l e f.»ld Cheap on a literal Credit,
in order to dole the u\tu
June 19 d 3t.
[Volume XI.: P H ILAbE LP HlJi \
.' tDESDAt EVENING, June {
. ;
Mi* rt»»,
Sintte the meeting ef Congress, the conversation
Bf tnutt companies in which t have been, has turned 1
Upon the illiberal, * r e vulvar porfonalities, which
have degraded tht dignity of the House of Rcprs- •
fenuuvea ua too many occsfiom, during the prelent 1
session ; in tite coutf: of such co. Verfation the '
other .(ay, oi eof the company recalled to our re- I
trcilectioir. " that Jin the beginning of the war by
wi:teh -ve b came a nation, a fevers refft va of j
Cojigt«t'« naffed aga'nil Uuelling am<ingthe officers 1
of the army) that for a condijeraVde titne the com- ]
maader in cttlef, the illuftrieus VVaihmgton, was
teazedwlih applications on this on this fu'.-jeil, til!
hii" p:Uience becanae almost exhau'.ted: he at last
laid ou such.applications being ma" you joug!:
to fettle tllefc points anlong yourfeivesaud nothar
rapi me 011 such matters.*' Irt a fiiort time a .few
intemperate officers were killed by others squally
perhaps to blame ; the effeA was remarkably benc
fic.al f it Is well known that forne of our 6rft olfi.
cers had been taken from ftatians, inwhi'c!i, what
ever tlieir iotrinfick worth tuight be, it was im
possible that they could be acquainted with the foft
civilities of polished life ; however, by a lew le.Tojis
in the rtough school ef Duelling, the officers of our
army in y.neral, as if l«y enchantmeat, became as
polished is the officers of a veteran arS»y.
To produce a similar effeit in the Hotife of Re
presentatives. I it tothe wisdom of Congress
whetlier it would tot be, not only proper, but nc
telTary, toftifpeud, during each Srffion of Congress,
the laws againd Dnclling, as tb the Members of
the lower House ( perhaps the famepr'n'tltgc ought
•to fee extended to the Senate also. It' is probable
that we might lose hm or a dozen members (for be
. it onderftood that I ltconimend the plan of the late
Kihg of Prulfii, to hang on the spot, the survivor,
ul every instance, where a Uael (hall be fought uu
dor tliis privilege of CongrJj), but we cari all point
out many memberi who can be very wellfpared—
fome of the long winded speakers would be silenc
ed forever, which would he-a great saving of time
and money to the United State'. 1 dare even ven
ture to prediA that, in this event, oarßeprefen
tatires would immediately bccoTe, and continue
for ages, remarkable for decorum and urbanity,
and the best interests of the union would er.grofs all
their attention and poiArcts of mind.
an old orrisKß.
COMMUNICATIONS.
iaehe, according to custom, has a long piece
this forenoon, on the old beaten fubjeA of the
British treaty—and with the moirjly peculiar to
his impudence, calls our nen:rality -fraudulent,
with relpedl to France—and with an audacity
14miliar to the fadlionj abuse» Mr. Adams with
•ofcabls freedom —For what ? Because he has
(hewn himfelf superior to their enmity, a*d hon
orably attached to the freedom and indepen
dence of the Uuited States. It is a knowledge
of this firmnefs of mind, this energy of foul,
aodthis rclUart on the virtue and patriotism of
his countrymen that gives the enemies of our
rights, unceafipg alarms, and unjuflifiable actu
ations. Nor can they prove it in a more con
spicuous manner, than in their insolently advif
ii»g' bis retirement from government, and in the
peculiar hope, that the people will compel his
.abandonment, to please our enemies, internal
and external.—Here Bache, you are as ulual,
cjbite otit in your politics—for the People are
friends to government, and confeqtiently to Mr.
Adams. The Peoplechofe him rheirPrefident,
and rejeiSed Jefferfon ; and had the hostile let
ter of this migtty philosopher, been publifhcd
anterior tothe ele&ion, he would not only had
noehuicefgr Premier,but would have been new
(wh«rc he ought to be) at his Virginia farm,
contemplating the fpinal'bone of a rpufqtiito.
In a word, Mr. Adams ftaads conspicuous in
the love and esteem of all true Americans. All
thtife who wi!h America aloof from the danger
ous ef Europe, and to reft their liberty
and independence on Gotl, an® their country —
These are Mr. Adams's friends —these are the
hien who deprecate a difference with France*
and who wi(h no union with any European na
tion beyond commerce and mutual good will.
June 19. PEKN.
The Aurora, long since the abhorrence of all
ili'tftUous and patriotic Americans, continues Its
career of ijjdecenty, defamation ind (lander, by
•ttempts to promote jealousies, fufpiciofls and
accusations of the whob government uncheck
ed by any restraint of honor, or regard to truth..
Amongst the groflcll of its insults to, and af
taults upon the republic, is its frequent mention
of a public efficer, whom it calls " President
by tin ;e voles." It is only necessary to fay,
that in Ari£i truth the majority was if, includ
ing the votes of Pennfylvartia, they ought to
have been, and would have keen, but for the
daring out age ift>on the laws by a man whom
I foibear to mention, left I (hould be tempted to
t!o justice to him asd his " Governor"—which
is needlefc atprelint, as the firft dies a natural
dtath at the expii atioft of the present term ; and
" they twain being »ne fltih," the other must
expire also. Q_
From the Baltimore 1 t.lugrafh.
COMMUNICATION. ,
I SHOULD be mush surprised at the mode
of argument that prevails with certain members
of the representatives i* congress, were there
Ijot abundant reason to believe that there exists
a party there, whose politics conneft the interests
of their country with those of I'rance. Nay—
from the fefior of the speeches of many, if they
are rightly given,one would even be juflified in
ftrppofing that there are members, who, though
allied to their country fey every tie that car. aid
ought to form the tcne anddiredtion of a patri
ot's conduit, are ready to yield the honor* and
the interests of their own, to the views and am
bitious projects of another-
When I fee, day after day, wafted in dtbate,
en the right, propr:ety and polity of employing
means for insuring security and freedom to our
commerce, mfulted and abused as it is, by an
ungenerous and brutal euemy, presuming upon
itsdefencelefs state ; when I fee tinge, pretious
and important, iinprofitably confnmed, in fet
tling th< mcety of woids; in adjusting phrases,
and ftleflinj epithets ; when, in place of that
frank-and determined tone which men of spirit
and independence, who indignant at jnfult and
violcnee offered to their rights would life, 1 fee
a cautious phraseology ; afcarce audible tnur
mer of complaint, breathed with the tremu
lous actent of coward caution.—l am juflified
in believing, either that there is an aicendar.cy
ef a foreign influence in the house. or tha:
a prevalent dread of exerting the power
we pofTefs of repelling the nnwsrranii'ole in
traAionsof the freedom of the Teas, Are we
then funk so low? Are we so fallen from the
cbaraAer of manhood, that we dare not even*
eompluin of the violation of our rights ? Arc
we so deflitute of that noble paftion, that fervid
enthufwfin which. (Veilsthe patriothcait, and
impels to deeds of glory, that we dare,»ot even
make an effort for defence,againft (he qverhear
inj inlVUncu. mi a treatherous f«>; Are'wefo
prone, so pro Crate, so dtbiie ar.d dcbafid, that
we must even ftrcich forth #Ur viands to meet j
the maaVt! funned'by an imperious tyranny, '(
without daring one ftruggtc to oppose it ? I)id j
wt theiubrave the horror# of a ten year? ij'ar a
gainst a powerful and determined enemy ? Did t '
we resist opprefDon's iron la(h ? Did success and , <
freedom crowu our gloriutu Cornells, but to I
link U3 deep in damning infamy i the infamy ' i
ot treachery—the infamy of cowardice ? |
Where—Oh ! whereis the dLOC)£)thatwarm
ed the patriots h-art? VVhce the l.rave, the
manly; where the more nt»hle SPARTAN
SPIRIT that exalted us to Cer.qt.ejl and to Li*
berty ? Is, then, tlie lioHe ardor that inflamed
ea.h manly bieafl, fhruiik to a filfilh and a
taii'lerous paflion ?
I have often llftened to the invocation of the
glorious spirit cf Seventy Six ! An ! where hath
that spirit fled ?—-In in place a spurious flame
ha-, been kindled, deadly to liberty, as thepoi
foned vauor of inflammability is to life I
The induttrv pradlifed -to j'jftify or excuse
the inimical conduit of the French towards us,
is vei y observable. When fads fpsak so loud
againit that nation, it cannot but appear extra
ordinary to persons, interefled only for their ■
country's fate, that there should be per Cons in
congress always ready to dsfend that sonduil 1
But, if men are (incere and devoted .to no in
terest but that of their country, why lessen the
mortifying catalogue of our leffes ? Why re
duce Hundreds to Units ? Why extenuate the
insults and wrongs wantonly, mischievously, in
solently acervated, into afts of unauthoiifed Pi
racy ; into aits of Necef/ity, or juftifnble policy?
When England—the fad is (till green in the
memory —when England's haughty spirit warr
ed again(l our commerce, auniverlal resentment
vas reused againll her, and then, that very .
party which is now so mute, so prudent and ,
pacific, were loiui for WAR, and blamed the
conl and tardy process of negotiation for effect
ing £atisfa£lion. But now that wrongs and in
sults, aggravated by proceeding from pretend
ed friendlhip j —wrongs and insults rendered
more poignant, by coming from a nation which
we fondly solinted generous and disinterested
friends. Now that injuries are heaped and mul
tiplied upon u« with every aggravation that
contempt and indignity can add, nothing is
heard from them but maxims of caution, tole
ration and apology 1 ! 1 If this conduit does
not prove the prevalence of a FRENCH FAC
TION in this country, the exiflence of no
truth can be proved.
AN UNSOPHISTICATED AMERICAN.
Q'7o be continued-J
1
Legijlature of Netv-Hampjhire.
June 9.
This Day at 12 o'clock, his Excellency,
Governor Oilman, in the Representa
tives room delivered to both branches of .
the JLegiflature, the following
ADDR ESS:
Fellow citizens of tie Senate, and
of the House of Representatives,
HAVING in obedience to the call of my
fellow-citizens again accepted the office of
Chief Magistrate, it affords me great latie
faction that I may congratulate you on our
general prosperity and happiness, as k -ref
pefts the internal affairs of the State.
The opportunities we have for promoting
and enjoying civil andreligiousliberty, (hould
excite our gratitude to the Supreme Rtller
of the Universe, and produce a fixed deter
mination, rightly to improve these invalu
able blessings.
As a member of the United States, it is
both our duty and interest, to preserve and
strengthen the ties which bind us together
—and while we participate in the great ad- i
vantages consequent upon the operation of
our federal government, it becomes us to
remember that we must also fuffcr, if.that is
injured.
When we recolleft the past eminent ser
vices of the person who has been recently ap
pointed Prelident of the United States, we
may justly confide that the wisdom, firmnefs
and patriotism, which have heretofore been
so conspicuous in his conduft, on many im
portant occasions, will be.exerted to the ut
most to promote the honor, iitfereft,peaceand
happiness of our common country.
An extraordinary occasion has induced
the President to convene Congrefs—ln his
Speech to the Senate and House of Repre
sentatives, the injurious conduct of a foreign
nation, towards our own, is particularly de
lineated :—While these circumstances are
( viewed with deep regret, they* must be high
ly alarming.
It being the peculiar duty of the general
1 government to direst in all things relating
1 to our foreign concerns, and to pursue such
1 measures as may be thought proper for pro
( moting and preserving the htmor and inter
est of the nation ; it is incumbent on us to
view the situation in which we stand, and to
ur.ite in a fixed determination to afford the
most prompt a'nd effeftive aid to all thdr
. constitutional measures.
s Peace, on termsconfiftent with our rights
. as an independent nation must.be the sincere
> wifhof all good citizens, and we may believe
s will be earnestly fought for by the Federal
government. But however ardent the de-
fire for peace may be, it cannot be imagined
that a people who not long fipce expended
j so much blood and treasure in obtaining
Independence from onenation, will ever con
i sent to laerifice that invaluable poffeflion to
• another.
Although Congrefsare empowered topro
' vide for the common defence and general
welfare, and for organizing, arming and
1 disciplining the militia ; yet, should you be
it of opinion from a view of the general afpeft
s of our public affairs, that it is necessary at
• this time for the state to make further provi
' fion for arming andfdifciplining the militia ;
or to take any other measures for the parti-
I cular defence and fafety of the State ; what
e ever you may determine upon will meet my
- zealous attention.
Gentlemen of the House of
Rep refentat'rues,
1 Coniidering the magnitude ofthe debt in
' cuiTed during our struggle for independence
the state of our treasury has hitherto been as
. good as could be expe&ed ; —yet from a
■ view of the prosperous state of our country,
' and the ability of our citizens, I have here
tofore thought it expedient that taxation
(hould be Continued ; that we might b? more
amply prepared to meet fncli difficulties as
are incident to all lbuman affairs. At a pe
, riod not very distant, the prices of many ar
ticles of the general produce of our country,
may probably be much reduced. Should to
Congress find it indifpciifubTy netcilary t\> th
lay a dirett tax ; and the particular cireum- vc
(tances of the State require an assessment for tli
our owu internal affairs at the fame titoe ; ei
this double tax may beburthenfom.—Thefe H
eonJvdcrations induce me to ask your .itten- ie
tion to the fubjeft at this time. . fa
Gentlemen of nhe Seriate, and
Genth mrn ',f the Jlaufe of Rfyrefentatives, cl
In a fcparate communication I ftiall lay n<
before you fojrie obltrvationsrefpectingfoni- oi
penfationsto persons employed in administer- la
ing the government of this state. fc
Although we may view with much anxi
ety the general aspect of our national con- si
a rns ; it becomes our peculiar duty to con- tc
fider the affairs of the state. In recurring bi
to the Constitution, we (hall there find many L
important matters, which claim our nttenti- tl
on, and by upright endeavours to cftabliih d
jqllice and .promote the general welfare oi C(
the community, we (hall best answer the rea
fdnahle expectations of our constituents, and si
secure the approbation of our own minds. b
JOHN TAYLOR GILMAN. n
CONGRESS. 0
•Si r
.(Mr. Se, wall's Speech concluded from the j
Gaxettc of the I2tb infl.) ! \
If there is a neccffity of yielding to !
Fence and giving up principles which are ! |
just and honorable for us to maintain, let it j
be done in the mode pointed out by the Con
stitution, by the means of difcuffioit be- ;i
the Minister of the Executive and the ' v
Diretlorv- of France. He thought it a
matter of great importance to the United {
States, that we (hould prefer,ve those articles ( -
in our treaty with France which give free
dom to our commerce in time of war, and .
which limit the articles of contraband. To v
suspend our advantages during the present j
war in compliance with France, if fhere- > a
quires it, would be better than a total relin- f £
quilhment. The close of this war may j a
give an opportunity of difcnfling.this sub- | j
jest more fuccefsfully than it could be done j j
at this time. Perhaps the United States ■ [
may. obtain even from Great Britain to con- 1
fider and agree to make goods free on board j
!of free (hips in all cases but those of aftual (
' blockade and investment, we may obtain j
, from her to limit the articles of contraband : (
If it can be done, it is needless tp fay, that t
our commerce will be greatly benefitted,
and in the periods of European vyar will ve
ry much increase. In any-view, he asked, j j
why surrender this part of the treaty with j
France, without a reciprocal stipulation as ; t
to some articles which are disadvantageous j
to the United States ? Why is this to be | t
done out of the ordinary course, and by the j (
direftion of the House of Representatives,
without the concurrence of the other de- .
of the Government ? He here (
anticipated ari argument which he had in- j
tended to offer in another place, and pro- ; 1
' ceeded to (hew that the House could have no i (
' reaffln to hesitate in giving their confidence ,
to the Executive ; for there had been no ]
remiffnefs of endeavours for entering into a
negociation with France ; on the contrary,
iit would appear from the highest authority, ■
that attempts had been made to negociate, .
and that the negociation, had been directed i .
to the very obje£l of our present concern , !
and had there been on the part of France a ,
disposition to accomodate, they might lo.ng
hare had fatisfaSion, upon all the com
plaints which any of the Committee have; j
thought deserving of confederation. He !
then read, from Mr. Pickering's letter to Mr. |
Adet, dated 30th June, 1795, several pas- '
sages to prove the eagerness which the Ex- '
ecutive then difcovertd to Mr.. Adet for,a
negociation with France, and having con- ;
trailed the conduct of the Executive of the 'j
United States, in overlooking Mr. Adet's !
want of formal powers, with the. conduft of .
the French Dileftory, who were supposed
by their advocates to have driven Mr. Pinck
ney from France because he had not the
charafters of a special Envoy, he proceed
ed to read some passages from a letter of
Mr. Adet, dating objections to the British 1
treaty, and the reply of the Secretary in
July 1796, and upon these he argued the
■ earnestness of the Executive of the United t
■ States to give France fatisfaction on the i
1 fubjett of these complains, which Mr. Adet ;
' had offered as objections to the Briiifh trea- !
: ty ; in fail he was ready to allow that the
advantages supposed to be secured to our
commerce by the treaty with France, but
: which in fa£l we had never enjoyed, as
• France had instantly and openly violated the
: treaty in this refpeit, could not be retained, '
unless all nations would submit to the fame
- rule, or unless neutral nations (hould arm j
I themselves in support of the rights of their
I neutrality ; but with the United States,
; the commercial advantages to be obtained
■ would never compensate for the hazard and
1 expense of arming. To concede these ar- I
tides of the French treaty, during the pe
riod of the present war was a matter of no j
I importance, but to retaiu them as a fubjeft |
I for difcuflion when peace (hould ensue, and
with a view to their being generally Adopt- 1
ed appeared to him to be very important.— j.
To make the conceflion as proposed by the
amendment, was at once to lose our hopes of .
, an equitable arrangement, which might
prove so advantageous to the commeree of ,
- nentral nations. Suppose, said he, that thei
amendment before the Committee is agreed
to, and an Envoy extraordinary is sent to
Paris, carrying with him not as concealed
inftruclion*, but openly, this direction of
■ the House of Representatives to the Execu- ;
: tive of the United States, what will the '
i Executive Directory fay ? Your Reprefen
-1 tatives have conceded to France this article J
, of your treaty, and are desirous we (hould 1
have a right to infliS upon you all the lofies i
1 which you fu(fer at the hands of our ene
: my. If this .Envoy talked of entering into
i ilipulations, they would tell him he had 110-
• thing to argue. You have your inflruftions
■ from tbe Representatives of the people,—. '
, look to them,; it would be »n vain for him
• t
' 1
■to urge his inftmSijns froni t' - ss<k.r»t ''
they would aofaer'him,.w£ know your ga, fc
verninent, your Executive is ieparate from t.
the people, It is an idea we have at longsW»e .p
entertained, now you fee it yen»Cu, _t e x
House -of Representatives, the _ immediate .ui
representatives of. the people dec.are th; y
fad. .
1 have to N come tD thifc con- p
ekifiort; for, after aft, the violations of our vy
neutrality, the depredations and fpohations o
on our commerce,, by both France and Eug» ci
land, have little to do with the question be- w
fore us. , * n
The qoeftioh b, whether we will agree to t<
firch an .address, as will (hew our ilifpofitrcm v\
to defend our country in cafe peace cannot a
be maintained with France. Whether the p
United States (hall have peace or war with p
the French republic, was, in his opinion, to j
depend upon events over which we have uo i .
controuL I
Tlte French are not pointing their mea- ; o
fares against the United States in particular, . t
but they mean to.compel all other r.entral i ii
nations to abandon the British commerce : • n
to this end they have coerced the republic i £
of Genoa : their influence has been more di- • b
reft still upon Geneva, whose government o
they have overturned without any open war. f;
' They have annihilated the independence of C
j the Dutch ; and they lead as in firings tne
j humbled monarch of Spain. It is not the
| United States alone, that is threatened;
Denmark, Hamburgh, Bremen have heard 1
the mandates of the French Directory, and i
are required to withhold from any commerce i
with England. It depends then upon the 1
power which France may have to execnte i
these intentions, whether the United States 1
(hall be alike coerced. .
Looking upon this country as involved in
the general designs of France we fhmild pro
vide for our defence, before "(he (hall sudden- r
ly overwhelm us, annihilate our government, t
| and reduce us again to ?he abjett (late of £
i colonies. If this cannot be dons we must
i abide "the misery which we cannot avoid, c
j Let us have it to fay that we were not neg- t
i ligent in providing against the evil, that our i
j nation did not meet its fate without aftrug- 1
, gle, and that we did not at once join with <
France in producing the misfortunes of our i
country. Let us have it to fay that we i
; have fortified our harbours, that we animated
our militia, and armed our (hipping,'but as- ]
ter all that we were forced to submit to e- i
I vents we could not controul. <
He believed that we had resources in our- '
selves, and that we (hould obtain the aid of i
j foreign nations—it is 4>t to be supposed that -I
| they will look on inattentive, or that they (
j will be indisposed to join in alliance ■with any
; nation likely to be involved in their common
! calamity. .Ii .France has alfea'dy divided 1
many nations, and by that -means overcome,
them, if she is still rushing on in her mad
career, the time may come when all nations
feeing no end to her ambitious projects, will
; rife together to oppose her: their united ;
] exertions may succeed against the over
whelming power of France, and secure to
the nations their independency.
There is a hope that our danger may be
prevented by various circumstances. France
is yet in a revolutionary state : there are
frequent changes in the French government,
; a change of mtn may produce a change of
measures, and the apprehension of driving us
into a- close foreign alliance may have con- :
. fiderable effect in preventing her from pro
! fecuting any hostile intention (he may cnter
! tain against us.
j He did not mean to ihfinuate that any j
gentleman in the committee was in the feral-
left degree under the influence of France.
| He -would attribute observations and argu-'
* .meats unaccountable to him, to thatfenti
' mer.t of gratitude to France of which so
* much has "been said.
He thought if we could relieve ourselves
in the present crisis by our own exertions,*
we (hall he more secure hereafter ; we (hall
have less confidencein the kindnefsof France,
and we (hall become more secure, as we are
. convinced that our happiness depends alone
upon ourselves ; upon the love of our coun
' try, and the support of the constitution, and
' a disposition to defend it against all encroach-"
ments from foreign influence or domeltic sac
. tion.
| If the address, to the Preftdertt is viewed
i in this interesting light, we cannot hesitate
. to rejeft the amendment ; We cannot hesi
tate to leave it to the proper ccrnftituted au
thority to make the compromise, which w'e
all deiire with the French republic.
He had been surprised to hear it faid-that
the President's speech was a declaration of
war—nothing can be more contrary to the
truth. In what part is the found of war?
Is a recommendation to arm in our own de
fence a declaration of war ? Is it a declara
tion of war to fay we will defend our go
vernment and ourselves ? It might be under
stood that Americans are attached to their
! own institutions, and will defend them to the
, lalt- ' ,
j The mear* of this defence recommended
j by the Pretitient are not now under consider
) ation. There is no choice of measures in
I the report of the feleft committee ; there is
; nothing intimated that implies such an idea.
. He understood the reported address merely
j to express that we wilj undertake the defence
. of the country. If the fubjett had been
' thus considered, we had been spared from
* hearing accusations of the Executive, .and a
debate to fettle.the articles of a treaty. We
■ ought to leave that business to the proper
. envoys, and attend to the necessary public
defence, which, instead of plunging us into
| hostilities, is the best mode of avoiding them.
, A country well prepared for its defence is
not likely to be attacked. Art these coun
■ ,cils of war I No, they are councils of peace.
1 J Re then read the! principal passages. of the
1 J address, cbfervirig upon their propriety to
the occasion, the necessity of declaring the
indignation which every one mulft feel at the
lnfults offered by the French Directory to
the govtrnment, and, as it ought to be un
derstood, through them to the people of the
1 . Uf.ited States, and upon the call we now
hid tu v!o3{catyi>y t a. public dtclanuicti the
conduct of the government in maintaining
their neutrality, Which be hirnfelf was of
ppinion Lad pcifeftty impartial, and •
frum which no one would acctrfe them of an
intentional departure'; and obferv'ed that the
words of -the address, which.'had been ob
jeited to as sjppllcable to the executive de
jMrtinentsalane, evidently comprehended the
whole govenwftent. And after some other
obfciv.tiono upon the tenor of the address,
concluded, with that gentlemen
were vcrv improperly anxious to provide for a
negociation with France, and to fettle th
terinsj. but for his part, he thought that if
we would promote the negociation, as well
as prepare against an unfavorable event, our
principal care Ihould be to provide for the
public defence. .
MOKIDA.Y, JONF. 19.
A communication from the "Department
of" War, inclofmg a repoft, in pursuance of
the resolution of the Houfe'of the 16th
inft. of the number of artillerists engi- >
neers in the aCtual service of the United
States, was read. It states the whole num
ber of men to exceed 870, but to fall short
of 992, the full compliment. They ara
said to be stationed as follows :
Ofwego, Niagara, Detroit, MtcbeliO
mackinac, Prefqu'ifle, on the Mifli- > 438
fippi, & ia South Western Territory J
At Weft Point 105
At New York 60
At Philadelphia and Mud Illand 90
At Baltimore _ 59
At Norfolk 56
At a Fort in North Carolina 6
At Charleston 62
.Total, 876
This report was committed to the Com
mittee of the whole; to whom was commit
ted the bill providing for an additional re
giment of artillerists.
Mr. Parker moved that the Committee
of the whole be discharged from the fur
ther consideration of the bill respeCting the
manning of the frigates, and the bill from
the Senate for the protection of the trade
' of the United States'! in'order that they
might be referred to a SeleCt Committee to
incorporate the different subjeCts together.
Several objections were urged to this pro
p.ofitipn, and the sense of the House being
fir ft taken upon difeharging the Committee
of the .whole from the bill from the Senate,
which was, negatived, only 27 ,votes being,
in favqr of it, Mr. P. declined takiug the
■sense of the House on difeharging* the oth
ers.
Mr. A. Foster presented a petition from
New Haropfhire, complaining of thfi opera
tion of the duty which was last session laid
upon (tills, under a certain dimension, aiK
praying relief. Ordered to lie on the table;
. The bill dire&ing the appointment of
Agents for assisting in carrying into effect
the 6th article of the British Treaty, was
re?d the third time and passed.
Mr. W. Smith from the Committee of
Wkys and Means, reported a bill to providt
more efftftually for the collection of cer
tain internal revenues, which was twice reacfe,
but, on the motion being made for commit
ting it to a Committee of the Whole on
Monday next,
Mr. Gallatin moved.that this bill tie m:.d
the order of the day for the firft Mondial
in November. He' said it had been twf
years before the-Committee of Ways ar.(
Mea'ns ; and thought the regulations rnigh
j be good, yet they were mere petty detail,
( (and he thought if. there were time fort
they ought to be better) withgt
which they had done hitherto, ai»d if th<r
"took this bill up*, he knew none which coul
be proposed, which they might not a!fo t"-
ter upon with as much propriety. He will
ed to confine their attention to business im
mediately connefted with the upQ
which they were called together.
Mr. W. Smith wiflied the gentleman hd
deferred his motion till the bill had be«
printed. The"--gentleman himfelt had ac
knowledged there were many valuable prf
vifions in it, and the Secretary of the Tre*
fury had' informed him that mapy •" then
were necessary to secure a due collection a
the revenue. Gentlemen must be convji
ced that an increase of revenue will be ui
ceffary ; and if additional revenue could fc
raised, by a modification of this kind, t
would certainly be'preferable to laying nav
duties. The gentleman from.Pennfyivam
who was never. vary read-* to lay a new ta;,
surely could not object to this.
Mr. Giles supposed the decision upon tie
question would determine whether thflr
Ihould go home soon, or fit there the wlidi
summer. As it was- no uay connected win
the call of the pre sent session, he truftedlt
would be poitponed.
Mr. Kittera did not know but it might lc
proper to poitpone the business, but he bi
ped the bill would be printed.
Mr. Brookes was against thepoftpois
ment ; he thought if it would be the meins
of railing revenue, it was clofcly connected
with the business of the prefect fdSwi.
The question for a poftponemci I was put
and negatived, there being 41 votes for it,
and 48 against it.
The bill was then committed for Ws4-
nefday next.
Mr. Giles v. ithed vo go into a Committee
of the Whole On the bill for riifi 11;,-an ad
ditional regiment of artillery ; for thourh
the repbrt received this morning f:om th : -
Secretary of War was not printed, being
short, he thought that could not lorm an
possible what the House meant to do.
Mr. W. Smith opposed the motion. He
trulted this subject would be inferred till
to-morrow, that the report received this
morning have time to be printed.
Mr. Giles withdrew his motion, and cal
led up the report of the Committee of Ways
and Means, propoiing to lay ?.n additional
-duty of 13 cents per bushel on fait impor
ted.
The House accordingly xca: into a Com-
Imittee of t'ie Whul« on that fubjtft anJ fe
t!ie refolutio.i havlag t}«;i roa 1, to
Mr. Gallatin moved that the Commktse to
might riftt>- ,
Mr. Lros said ht fbould be forry-if the pi
committee.were to rife without any obje&ioo la;
being raade to a proportion so u:irtalcmable h«
?-vd A"tix of this kiii'J, he said, th
would hear particularly hard upon the coun- to
try from whence became; and that for ev- ec
srv auarter dollar of duty which was d'
they fhotild haye three quarters of a dollar ft;
to pay when the fait reached them. He trust- ta
ed it v.-ould not be cirfied. fu
Mr. Williams wifned the Gentlemen th
had moved to make the propbfed advance H
less than 13 cents. As there was nr> jn-oba- 8<
bility, that a land-tax would be laid, he fh
should give his consent to this; if a land-tax.
ln<i bee.) agreed to, he should oppose a fait ft;
tax. He thought, however, 13 cents a to
bushel too much. It was calculated to raise, ti
300,000 dollars. Every one allowed it was in
a fafe tax. As far as fait was consumed by
families, it was. a poH-ta?; but as to what g'
\ras consumed by cattle, it* was a tax upon -
la,rriculture. What colt a half a dollar at fa
New-York, cost where he lived, 2 1-2 dol- m
!ar«. A common farmer, vVith about 100 - ra
cres of land, did not use less than rb or 12
bufhtls of fait, He therefore paid five dol- 81
lars tax npon a fi»gle article. Yet they I
were fometiivies told farmers paid no taxes, ui
He wiflied a part of this tax to be laid upon y
fame other article. He moved, therefore, rt
to strike ouf the 13 cents and insert 7- tl
This motion not meeting with a second, P
the question was taken upon the resolution,
and negatived, 481042. ti
The committee then rose and the house fl
took up the resolution and confirmed the ne- n
gative 46 to 44. 0
On motion of Mr. Blount the house g
went into a committee of the whole on the v\
bill Airenting a detachment from the militia v
of the United States. I
Some observations were made as to the v
proportioning of men to each state, which h
it seems, was made according to the number t
of white inhabitants and three fifths of the t
blacks. Ta is was objedted to, and it was a- c
greed to ft left blank, until the third read- a
ing of the bill. t
Mr, Williams wished to make the calf
ling out of this detachment discretionary e
with the President. He therefore moved to t
add,where the bill speaks of organizing 80, 1
000 men, "if any subsequent measures Jhall in 1
his opinion mute it necejfary, during the recess z
of Cungrefs I
This motion was put and negatived.
Mr. Blount moved, instead of the 1
*' as soon as may be," (which related to the
calling out of the men) " at such time as the
President may think necejfary. 1
Mr. Skinner hoped this amendment ;
would be agreed to. The expence of calling I
out this detachment in MafTachufetts, he I
said, would not be less than 200,000 dollars, 1
and he could not fee any objedtion to leaving
it to the President to judge of the propri- 1
ety of putting the measure into execution. 1
The question wasput and carried4i to 30.
Mr. Sewall said, though there might,
in tht opinion of the President, be a rteceffity
for calling out a part of these men, there
might not be occasion for calling out the
whole ; he therefore moved the following a
mendment, viz. "or of any less number,
which, in his opinion, the service may re
quire."
Mr. Bloukt did r.ot know the meaning
cf this motion, except it were with an in
tention to save expence, which it would not
effe£t; as, if the detachment must be made
—B,OOO menwould cost as much organizing
as 80,000. He tho't we ought at all times
to have this portion of our militia ready for
any call that could be made.
Mr. Sewall said, his intention was to
save expence. In 1794, he knew a great
expence had been incurred in MafTacliufctts,
and it had been in proportion to the number
ps men employed. ,
Mr. Williams observed that Bo,oeo
men would be about one tenth part of the
whole militia of the United States ; but if
oaly one twentieth part was wanted, little
more thankalfthe espencewouldbe incurred.
Ms. Lyon was so far from agreeing to
the present amendment, that he should wish
a clause inserted in the general militia law,
always to have this number in readiness.
Mr. Varnum thought a law detaching a
portion of the militia would rather weaken
than strengthen our force. If an enemy
were to land at any point, though it might
1* the peculiar duty of the detachment to
march to repel them, yet, as the small num
ber of these men at any one place would
probably be unequal to the repelling of an
enemy, the whole body of militia in that
quarter would at once turn out. Indeed,
the whple ought alwaystobe ready to march
at a moment's warning. Though no money
would be taken from the Trcafuvy in form
ing the contemplated detachment, it would
nevertheless be attended with great expence.
Men would not willingly turn out for four
dollars a month, when they cpuld get fifteen j
t for common labor. The difference would
therefore fall upon the State. If there was
neceflity for the measure, the cafe would be
different, but he .did not think there was any.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) agreed with
the gentleman from Mrffachufetts that the
whole body of militia ought to be held in rea
diness, and that the calling out of a detach
ment, iaftead of increasing our strength
would weaken it. Hq was i;i favor of this
amendment, because it left it with the Pre
sident to call out a smaller number. This
detachment, be affirmed, would be attend
ed with vpry considerable expence- In New-
Jrrfey, they would have to newly organize
their corps, and to make different elaffilica»
tiojis of them. Men woujd be cast for by
. lat, there would b'c much loss of time, and
coufiderable funis would be paid for fubiu
tutes. Mr, D. said he was oppoied to the
principle of the bill ; but al tliU amendment
would make it let ohje&cr.ab'c, -is - otM.ll
vote for it. .
Mr. Pi.OU..rr tlrr £if g 's'bP
!eem ti dittingukn between c tiling men i;i- th
to feryice, and putting t'.ie n in a state ready
to obey a call.
Mr. S, Smith was in fgvor of.thi princi- « x
pie of the bill. Wherever an enemy might ca
land (he spoke of an enemy landing, for t'no'
he did not believe there was any danger of n '
the kind, yet they had been called together
to provide against such an event") he doubt- 0 n
ed not the militi.i would rife at once in a bcv •»
dy i but they would go unprepared for S'
staying out more th,»n a few days. This de-
tachment, whic»; would be prepared for the
field, would accordingly be ready to relieve an
them, as soon as they could be got together, w
He thought this a good provision ; but, if
80,000 men were thought too many, he
should not object to its being made 40,000.
Mr. Lyon was for letting the provision g e
Hand for 80,000 men ; it was preposterous 01
to talk of the danger of war, and at the fame ' 01
time, think 80,000 men too many to be held
in readiness to defend the country. \ w
Mr. Shepard thought the provision a tli
good one. '
.. Mr. Blount observed that it had been J* 1
said that militiamen had only four dollars a n '
month ; a law pasTed in 1795, he said, which
raised their pay to 6 J-dollars. h:
Mr. Hartley was in favor of holding w
80,000 men in readiness. This was done in
1794, and though he did not think we had u ,
now so much sealon to apprehend danger,
yet he would wish to be in a state of prepa- th
redness. He had no objection to leaving ce
the time of callinjr out the militia to the
O I*'
President, but not the number.
Mr. Dayton said, if the situation of
things juftified the call for 80,000 men, he as
should be the last to objeft to it; but he did h
not think it did. This aft, he said, would
operate unequally on different slates. The v
gentleman from N. Carolina, had said, it al
would be no inconvenience to his llate, it t:
would be very different in many other states. ri
In New-}erfey (as he had before dated) it |
would be felt very considerably. Men mud
have bounties, and their pay made equal to ; _
the price of labor. There would not only
be required a*new organization and claffifi- f'
cation, but also an infpeftion of arms and
accoutrements. He believed all this would
be done under this law, if it pafled, in the b
state of New-Jersey, whatever might be the j c
expense and inconvenience it would put them c
to. If he thought there was any danger, |
he would not have objected to the me afore.
He did not, however, think we should have | t
a war; and if such an event were to take i
place, ,he did not think there was a proba- 1
bility of an invasion. Our situation in r 794, (
he said, was very different. We were then ; j
not only depredated upon by the British at j
Tea, but lord Dorchelter had iflued his war- c
like Proclamation, the Indians \yere counted ,
and had their tomahawks in their hands up- _
lifted, and ready to strike ! Believing, there
fore, the measure to be unnecefiary, and
that it would operate unequally, he should
vote for this amendment, which would leave
it with the President to detach such a num
ber of men as he should believe necessary.
Mr. MacoN was Carry any amendment
had taken place, since he could not now 1
move to strike out the firft fe£tion of the , 1
bill, in order to fee whether the House 1
meant to pass the bill at all; for he was of '
opinion jvith the gentleman from New Jer- 1 :
fey, that there was no occasion for it. He
was certain that this business could not be
carried into effect without expence. And j
if an invasion were to take place only a few ;
of the semen could be drawn into service.
The Chairman said, that if the feafe of
the Committee was wished to be had as to |
■ the propriety of passing the bill at all, it
it might be tried by moving for the Com
mittee to rife.
Mr. Willi am • made that motion.
Mr. Blount hoped the committee would not
rile. When he offered the rjfolution to the house,
he said he did not do it from any appreheofion of
' danger, but becauf lie 'bought it was necessary j
that such a number of men should be in readineis. ,
I'herc seemed teen to be little difference of opin- I
1 ion, and lie thought the principle was at that time
, fairly tried.
' Mr. Skinner hoped the committee would Jrife.
' It was well known that there was an alarm in tha
: minds of the people with refpeft to war ; and there
was serious apprehenfioi.s of war. Mr. S.-again
t spoke of the expence. He had besides another ob
jeSion to the passing of this bill. War had been
1 apprehended by many. Officers and men were a
> good deal divided with respect to the relativp situa
tion of our country; it this bill pass, they Will
l (peculate upon me^fures; they will go into difcuQp
, ins wJiich will neither tend to strengthen the gov
crament nor incrcafe good neighbourhood. He
hoped i( would not pass.
' Tha question was put and negatived, 40 to 19.
> Mr. Lyon thought iO,OOO men would Oe fuf
- ficient to oppose any force that would be bro't
J against us.
1 I'he question was thsn taken on the amendment
t of Mr. SewiW, and negatived, there being only.
19 for it.
' Mr. Varnum moved to strike out the whole
1 or the id fe<Sion, which provided for the offic-
Y ering of the militia, out of the present militia of
i- iiccrs, or others, at the option of the eonflitu-
J ticnal authority in each state."—Carried.
He also moved to strike out, as unneccHary,
' the sth feilion, which requtfted the President to
*" call on the executives of the fcveral states to take
n the mofteffeilual means, that the whole of the
d militii, not coinpnfed in the foregoing reqmfi
is tion, might be armed and equipped according
ie 'to law."—Carried.
r The committee rose, the honfe agreed to the
1 amendm-nts, and the bill waj otdered to be
;;.groiT<d for a tliirU reading to morrow.
Mr. P.ittis then, moved the order of the
1- day on the bill authorffinj the Brefident of the
l- United State» during the recess of congreft; to
h previde g ~tl.es, or other vcflels, forctrtain pur
ls ocfe» therein mentioned The house went into
s a committee aeeordingly.
Mr. Gii-m wiflied f«»rrji information a« to the
,s number ot veffei* to be employed, in order that
1- c hs eiperce n.ight in some degree be afcertaiued.
r- yir] S.hwi ru f«d that gillies were not t6 te
e purcka/ed, and wl:«'. ttey were got, In J were
' not fit to go to tea, but were ftiited merely to rivers
and bays; b.li4=« iffthey were to be built, they
■y could not be got leady before r.ejt April or May,
at which fir«e probably they be unnecelfary,
:i- or vcffels of a dlflh-ert kind w_autu d. He expected
the gentleman freri Virginia (Mi. Pjrker the
, chairman Ot thffefeil coniniitf««) wbuld have been
" j j prepared wit* a new in place of the gallies.
J i J .■; thought the irigate» neceflaty, he thought the
! tender,*
t ' the L'cittd St*c, he said; were rtady far tea;
they Alight be fitted out, an 3 put to sea />
iii twenty Jay-* Tl. 4 bethought, wouid be the n(J
beftplan. He had no confidence in gallic?—they ((
diinothke tivface a large £u ,- i; he had had some ..
«*perier.ce with thcal, and knew that this was til*
cafe. ' mt
. Mr! Bstopns thougV the wor<is "other _
would cflvcr ail y otb' r that might be thouyhtpre- (l)l
fcra'ile to gallics. /
Mr. I'ai.kcr moved to strike out the firft f.'" i
on of the bill He. had no Opinion n( gallics. and
as to other veficU, he did not rfh : a|t tbay couid he tof.
got He did not think tl»t merchant's vessels /;/.
were fit lorv (Tels of war, and it wa» more xpence r. (
to m ke til m so than they were worth when J
made. The gov rnment had ten reffnue cutters
and were they properly ar;tied and they '
would ai'fwcr the purpofcof convey*lor oar m -r- fu,
chant vefTrls, or for the proteflion of our cuafl >jr
better than for any other, ile hid seen two of Jp(
*hew\ ia this port T and the other eight could soon .
begot. When the hill catne before diem for the
general naval equipment, he would propose a feiti- r . a
o» in the room of that he wished tp haye struck efj,
out. I jui
Mr. SewALL was agbinfl striking out. Though
he agreed with gentlemen as to the cutter-, he
wished to giv.: the Vrefident power to provide o- _
ther vi-ffj» if he fnould find it nccefiary. <
M)\ Parker was willing to go as fat a« any vc
man in putting the country in a state of defence ; qjj
bnt he was couvm ed the.i'bjjct of this bill w .uld as
not have the effji*. Rather than purchafct he
fliould advise the working up of the materials on c '
hand ; and h': believed there was as much timber as to
would build two frigate*. He wffuld wil- yo
lingly agree to encrsafe our naval force in a proper „[
manner, but not in a way which would be of no Qt
ufc.
Mr. Hartley wished for the committee to rife
that the hill from the Senate might come under m
confidv ration, before this vote was taken. dt
Mr. W Smith hoped the committe would not c(
rife without taking a question. Ki
Mr. S bM nn was opp >fed to the committee's
xifing. He thoughtthis bill might be so amended r '
as to answer the purp f .', and if that could be done, !'■
he knew no rcafon why they {hould not do it. tl.
Mr. Dayton hoped the committee would rife, al
For the reasons mentioned by the gentlemen from a
Virginia; and thai they {hould proceed to build •*'
another irigatc as vvsil as arm the Revenue Cut- r '
ter» for the protection of our commerce, if by the •£
returns it fliould be found their advantage to do so. n
The committer rose, and had have to fit again, p
1 Mr. Nicholas moved that when the house ad-
journ, it a till ten o'clock instead of eleven.
—Carried, being 49 votes for it. c '
Mr. Varnum, Irom the committee appointed
for the purpofc, reported a bill for organizing and ; d
disciplining the militia of the United States, which |
having been twice read. _ i r
Mr. V. said this bill was almofl verbatim of the !•'
bi'l which had been reported every feflion since the j
] commencement of th« government for a feleft ' "
corps of militia, and constantly rejeAed. Last fef- ft
fion, after it had been reje&ed, a new bill was re- L
portjd as an amendment to the raili'ia bid. He \" n
j hoped,therefore, though he was upon the commit
j tee, that the heufe would rejcdl this bill and take ''
into consideration the other bill whith he had 0
I mentioned.
j Mr. Macon hop«d the bill would not be rejeift- (
I ed. Similar bills, it was true, had been reported;
' but this was the firft bill that ever contained a
! principle which it contains, viz. a clafiification ac
cording to age. He thought it the best militia bill
which had ever beea brought before them.
Without taking a queftior, on motion, the house f
adjourned till ten o'cUck to morrow, t
1 «■ j
Foreign Intelligence,
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED. ]
22 Germinal (April 11.)
A meflage was sent by the Direftory to '
the Council of Five Huudred, informing
, them of "the affaflinatiofi of Sieyes, which
being read, a meflage, on the motion of
| Boiffy d'Anglas, was" returned to the Di
-1 redoryi desiring all the particulars of the ,
affafliiiation to be laid before them, and in- 1
timating the intention of the Council, feel- 1
I ing, as it did, an interest in the recovery of; ]
I their colleague Sieyes, to make an account be ! j
laid before' them every day, of the slate of
his health. '
1 The President ittformed the Council, tbat
an usher had been sent to citizen Sieyes,
• who had found him in an encouraging situa
tion.
OFFICIAL ARTICLE.
j: The Executive Directory has just receiv
, ; ed a copy of a Proclamation of the foi-difant
. ; Louis XVIII. to the French. TOO jnuch
■ 1 publicity cannot be given to this paper,
- which no longer leaves any doubt either as
to the mad project of overthrowing the Re
j public and Constitution adopted by the
s French nation, or as to the existence of
1 Royal Agents and the plots concerted by
" them.
1 Persuaded by t?he indignation it will ex
a. cite in the breast of every Frenchman, the
1 Executive Direftory thinks that it cannot
- do better than forewarn tie citizens of the
" snares placed beneath their feet, by publifh
e ing to all France this odious manifeilo. It
is as follows :
t Louis XVIII to the French.
A profound grief penetrates our breast eve
-1 ry time we fee Frenchmen groaning in capti
y vfty through their attachment to the fafety of
'France.—But will it fatisfy your tyrants to
have procured new victims ? In this conspiracy
f. which they impute to them, in the papers they
1- publish so fajlidioufly, will they not seek pre
texts to calumniate our intentions ? Is it not
> to be dreaded, finally, that, either by forging
n . papers, or by throwing out subtle injinuations,
they will attempt to paint us to you in fa/fe
colours ?
g It is our duty to admomfh you againjla. per
fidy which the experience of what is pajl au
,e thorites us to forefee :■ it is our duty to matu
,e feji to you the sentiments with which our heart
is filled. The tyrants envelope themselves in
\l the shades of myfiay t —a father dreads not
t0 to be seen by his children. Those of our faith
r- ful fubjefis whom we have appointed to injlruS
to you as t» your true ivterefls, will retrace in this
paper the inflruSions they have receivfd. Those
whom the purity of their zeal, and the wis
dom of their principles, will entitle to our con
ic fidence in future, will here read oforehandthe
re inflruGions which will be given to themt Fi
-14 nally, all the French, who, Jharing our love
for the country, wish to concur towards saving
it, will inflruS themf elites in the' rules they
ed might to follow : and all France, acquainted
he with the end to which every one Jhauld concur
en in concert, and the means which ought to be
employed, ■w II form a judgment for itfelf of\
c f tltegood which it ought to expect from it.
i; iVc Lave said to our agents, [note, by the
Directory : Dunan, Brottier, and Lavil'ucr- W
nois) and we repeat to them inncjjantly — 111
" Bring ba:h our people to the holy religion of tli
their forefathers, and to tbe l paternal govern- re
ment wJjich fu long confliiatcd the glory and ct
happiness of France. Explain to them, the in
conjlitution of ihe slate has been calumniated
because it his bcc.i m funderflood. InflruS them tli
to dijlinguifh it from the regime which had been u:
too long introduced. Shew them, that-it is a
lite opp site to anarchy and despotism, the two ra
scourges which are as odious to us as they are I
to them, but which alternately have ajjlided ni
France since she hat no longer had a king. Con- in
fult wife and enlightened men as to the new de- dt
gr;cs of perfection, of which that conflitution fa
may be fufeeptibl:, ail tniie tmisj i to the ai
the forms it has prefcribcd to effect its amtlii)- w
ration. Ajfii'n that we are adopting the mofl G
efficacious measures to preserve it from the in- m
juries of time, and from the attacks of author- tc
ity itfelf. Guarantie once more the oblivion of (j
errors, of injuries, and even of crimes, ui
Quench in every breajl the fnallefl wish of pri- (h
vate revenges, which we are resolved to repress ol
with feverJy. Tranfnit to us the pubic will
as to the regulations which are calculated to
correct abuses, the reform of which will be the
conflant object of our fjlicitude. Apply all g
your attention to prevent the return of that re
gime of blood which has cost us so many tears, SI
and with which our wretched fubjeSs are flill
menaced. Direti the choice they are about to
make, towards men of worth, friends of jy
der and peace, who are at the fame time in
capable of bettaying the dignity of the French
name, and whose virtues, intelligence and cou
rags may help us to reflorc the happiness to oar
people. Promfe rewards proportionate to
their services, to the military of every rank,
and to the members of the .adtpinijlration who
shall co-operate towards the re-eflab!ifhment of n
religion, laws, and the legitimate authority. I
But, in the re-eflablifhment of them, avoid the t
employment of the atrocious means which were J
prattifed to overthrow them. F.xpe3 from 1
the public opinion a fuccrfs which it alone y
can render solid and durable ; or, if itJhonld f
be necessary to have rccovrfe to force of arms, a
Ido not at leajl employ this cruel force until the \
I lafl extremity, and to give it a jti/l and nccef- ,
I fary force. t ]
j Frenchmen I All the documents you may \
meet with in conformity to these fnntiments, we i
shall glory in avowing. If any Jhould be pre- 1
| fented to you in which you Jhould not recog- j
! nize these characters, rejeS them as the produc- \
tions of liars : they are not in conformity with ,
our heart. ]
Given on the I Oth of March of the year of \
Grace 1797, and of our reign the second.
(Signed) LOUIS.
LONDON, April 15.
The forgeries .of Bank-notes imported
1 from France appear to be very widely ex
tended. They are imitated with great in
genuity. *
The Rosalie, Robinson, from Bengal to
New-York, sprung a-leak, is returned to
Bengal, and is there condemned.
May 3.
, Copy of a letter from Alexander Ruddoch,
Esq. commander of his majesty's sloop
j Hazard, to vice-admiral Kingfmill, dated
f April 2, 1797-
SIR,
I have the pleasure to inform you, that,
in following your orders, we yesterday (close !
to the Skellock) captured a very fine cop
r ! pered French brig Le Hardi, of 18, nine-.
. j pounders and 130 men, after a chace of 7
f 1 hours. She then carried away both top
masts : it was otherwise very doubtfhl whe
t ther we should have come up with her. I
isnderftand Ihe was built at Cowe", about
' two years ago, for the Spaniards. She left
Brest the 17th of March, was soon after
chafed by two frigates, but escaped, after
many of their (hot went throilgh her' fails,
and one struck her hull. She lias only made
, t one prize, a Portugucze of little value. I
k am, See.
. , ALEX. RUDDACH.
j [* We think this was Cowell'* vellel.
e %t)C&Wc7tt.
-
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, JVbtE io.
,t PRICES OF STOCKS.
Ie —'
!_ 6 per Cent. 16/10
Deferred 6 per Cent, i \j'i I '■,/3
pet Cent.
4 per Cent.
I per Cert. 10/4
BANK S H A ii £ S.
p. Bank United States, 17 per cent, advance.
Hennfylvania, i 7
North America, 50
f INSURANCE COMPANY SHsl RFS.
to I. c. of N. A. 50 per cent, advance.
:y Pennsylvania, 3
?y ~
e _ Something New !
0 t The General of St. Domingo, ToufTant
,cr Louverture hasaddrefled the Military in that
Sy Island. The address concludes in the follow
'fc ing words, in which the reader will observe
a striking variation from the ft-ile of modern
r . philosophy :
«< The God of nature, he who governs the
universe, will not forfake us whilst. we are
rt employed in the defence of a cause which is
in become his own, since we only endeavour.
ot to restore men to the liberty which he gave
h- them, and which other men would have de
,a privedthemof without offendingattd contra
)is ueiiing his immutable will. We.arebutthe
,fe instruments of his mighty power, and the
if. executors of his just vengeance. He em
n- ploys Frenchman to brerk the chains under
hf rhe weight of which people of both hemiT
pheres groan. It is thro' them he is to re
vt move the obstacles which separate nations,
ng and to unite mankind into a race of brothers,
wy Such is the glory he prepares for them, and
•ed we will partake of it, my friends, as form
ur ing a part of that united race, if we are for-,
be tunate enough in fucceedingin what remaius
of for us to do, to exterminate the impure rem
nant of a proscribed nation, £theEngli(h.J
the But let us never forget that, for out success
wd an; wholly indebted tu God, and let til
not have the unbecoming pride to arrogatd
the glory of it toourfJves exclusively* Let
religion be ourgufds ! It will be the belt
cdmpafs we tan hive, to prevent us from lo
fmg our way in the remainder of our Voyage,
Let, us rttei* addl efyour fervent prayers to
the Supreme Being and with cne voice, let"
us aU fay to him :
O Lord, give us fuXHcicnt flrength, Cou
rage and fagicity to drive away oilr enemies,.
The enemiesof the French Republic. Suffer
not thy work to be destroyed. I'leafe, O
my "God," that our hearts be attached and
devoted only to thee, and to the public wel
fare. O Lord, wfio art infinitely amiablei'
and who love It us infinitely, fuffer not that""
we fliould live in ignorance and slavery.— l
Grant us shy divine afiiftance, that we may
march againlt our enemies iri an eredt poflure
to drive it r\ from the French territory-
Grant that we may be obedient and strongly
united, and we will conquer them, and they
(hall never again appear upon the territory
of the French Republic. Ainen."
Pout of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED. > DATS.
Brig Florid*, Hare, Porto Rico 15
- Welcome Return, Lab'jrel, Savannah 7
Slodp Maria, Bartlett, Charleston 6
Neiii-Toriy Jure 19
- ARRIVED. BAYS.
Ship Amftprdam Packet,Crocker, Gllfgow 6+
Sloop Deiight, Trut-mari, Antigua »f
By this day's Mail.
NORWICK, tune 15.
MELANCHOLY ACCIDENTS.
We hear from Brooklyn, that on Wed
nesday the 3 1 ft- of May ult. as Capt. Ala
Pike, of that town, was a Hiding a young
man, who took care of a favourite Stud, by
holding the mare by the bridle, received a
kick upon the lower part of his abdomen,
which put a period to his life in at>out 25
hours.—Capt. Pike was a worthy man and
a ufeful Citzen, and died universally lamen
ted.
The following week on Thursday, as
Doftor Joseph Baker of the fame 1 own,
with a young twin fan of about ten months
old. in his arms, was eroding a bridge, Ins
horse trod upon a broken plank, which giv
ing away so frightned his horse that he flung
the Doftor on tjie "bridge, with the chi'd
under him, which bruifeid and fradtured his
head in such a manner, . that it expired in a
bout one hour, > without, the least apparent
distress.
" Jforld man the trifle of a day,
Enjoys the morning light;
Nor knows the momentary play,
Mull end before 'tis night.'
. ... . ,
Miss Vanice's Benefit.
!' Lailson's Circus,
South Fifth Street, This Evening June 20th.
MISS VANICE presents her mod humble
thanks to a generous public, for the indul
j gcncewith which her. endeavours topleafethem
nave "bee'fi red; trrrjfreateft fatisfa&ion is the
hope of ft ill pleaiing them by doing every thing in
her power to meiit that patronage with which flic
, has been honored.
This evening's amusement which is for her ben
efit, will prefeirt her within opportunity of prov
ing her gratitude, by performing a great number
of new and Very difljcult cxerciles, iuwhieli nei
-1 thai'pains nor cace-(hall tie negle&ed.
- ■ Convinced ot the geoerofity us the public, and
_■ th: ir wi'ii to encourage the art of equitation (yet
[ in its Ijirth) (he has. noToubt of a GOOJ House, and
with this ho e (he promiiestO perform the follow-
ing exercifts.
t She will leap over several bars in a single tour
r round the Circu«. A feat Hever attempted by
[- any person of her iex.
Sh; will perform a number of different and diffi
'' eu!t exerci •, ftan3irig on a harfe, in particular
e in the ehara&er of Fame.
I She wiil perforin feat (for a female)
of the ftirrtK'with a'v.vaci * which will afton
ilh'the beholVbr', the horse being in full gallop.
The Four Travelling Brothers;
9- A Co nie Scene on horfcback, in onoa&.
Rognoliet, ' Mr. M'Donald
Couttc Mefufc Langley
Sins Couture, Herman
Caffago, Nicholat
Driver, Webber
Diredor, Liylfon
(For the firftti*ne) thiieap through the Hogs*
he-tf :by a horse and hi*- rider—a feat never exe
cuted In America- Thehogfliead is fix ieet deep
the bottom of whfch is made of paper, through
which the horse willic*p—this astonishing horse
- has been railed by Mr. Lailfon in Fhlapelphia.
Mr* Langlcy wtfl perform on a single horse: he
Will dance on a (addle, and leap over several bars,
and a taVe, in a single tour round the Circus.
After which/ie will give the Death of Bucephalus.
Mr Lailfon, after a number of curious exerdfet
will perform that of the three hoops (which hat
never been executed but by himfclf, and of whi«h
he isthe inventor) that of the Matand<he Giove,
c . and the astonishing leap of the P»ibbon. The e
veningN entertainment to conclude with a
cillei
Harlequin Journeyman Dentist.
The Djo'S will be opened at fix o'clock, riid
ih«" performances begin precisely at half psft fev«a»
v " at the general lequeft.
r e N. B. No gerfon can be admitted in the centre
*n of the Circus, which is cxcluQveijr appropriated to
the Equcfti iin Exercises. _____
ie liulh Hill.
r . e ' June »oth, X 797.
is Public are rcfpe&fully informed that the
Jr. x Even.ugs Amusement of the Gardens for thU
ire wck ?rr ar'ance" 1 for
e- TO-MORROW EVENING, Wedni*.
a- day, June 21 ft,
ie Wednesday, Till, and Friday, ltd.
le NB. t hey are also rrqu:fted to take notice
that the Tavern and G :rden» will b* puMicly ope»
n " for gmera! admi&en on Tue'dayi, and
ft Saturdays.
if- %" Sundays admittance, one quaßer of a dol
■e. lar, which entitles the person to its value in wines,
s liquors uT refr;ibm<nits.
' £/ drei.'d for part'ns at a day's notice
S i_ 'l'
;n. "ITTHKKEAB my wilt, Marv Smith, hai
)r _ VV sbfcont'ed from my bed and board with
' o«t any just c. dfe, thit to forewarn all perfont
from Irulling her on my account, ai I will piy
codchts of her comrlAlag from the date here
•] of. JOHN SMITH.
:is Jubc to itL (Meatier, Harrijburg , Carl'tjle,
So'ppenjburg and Sunbury
v STAGES.
THE poblic are requ:fted to take notice, that
the pattnerfliip for icunctiine fub
liihd betwt«n Mathiis Slough of l.ancafter, and
William Geer, is now diflnlved ; but, not as M.
infinMates to the public wi'hout juit caul'e ;
as Will more fully appear by a letter en t'nc fub
[<<ft from M. Slough to W. Gecr, dated the 19th t
December last. a recital ef v.hich U not m-ii deem
ed neccCaty. Any gentleman who Wiihes t« be
mnfe circumflantially informed of the merit* of
this- bu&nefs, hy to W, Geer may have
the perusal «f M. Sloughs lettrT, and then can t>c
at full Hi>erty to determine whether or not W.
Geer it not perfeflly juQifiahie in attaching nim
frlt to any other person in the profecutlcn of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Sbippeiif-
Urg, or any other place.
How from the liberal and generous fappcrt the
public w«re pleased to confer on the *rft effort in
this liufinefs, William Geer, in conjur;dipn with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Wtuner, is determined
toprofeeute and carry it on, with every .care, at
tention and iifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
. with carriage!, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the palfage fafe and commodious, inform
thofa wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the fiirn ef the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, oil every Monday
and Friday, tft proceed to l.ancafter, HarrifDurg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. 'The fare as hi'-hcrto
eftabliflied.
For the further accommodation 0! the public,
a Stage will (tart every Weinefday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in HarrifbUrg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thence and arrive at Harrifburg
eV'iy Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed mi Mon
days,
WILLIAM GEER.
l.ancafter, Jan. a?, 1797-
N. B. This Line ef Stages Harts from the
house of William Ferroe, in Lancaftcr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
nr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wsdfief
day morning, on the fame *venir.g arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and return*
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as-in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
A Cow Stolen
ROM the owner at the corner of Ninth
and Arch llreet6. She is a deep red
■brijidle with some white, about ten years
old and very gentle. The person who fe
• eretes her had best turn her out, as, if legal
• evidence can be obtained, he may expert a
rigorous prosecution. TWO DOLLARS
-reward will be given to any person who will
deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a
gainst the person keeping her, that he may
Be convicled of the fact. Apply at
No. 2rß, Arcs Srsssr.
• Jlipe 9. taw3w
NOTICE.
r fufefcriber having sent by the ship Nancy,
1." Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank stock, to wit :
No. to 16,014, inclusive, for three
lhares each—and the said vessel havinp been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, which'
will mod probably occasion the loss of the' said
certificates, gives this public sotice,
That he shall apply at the proper offices fer a re
newal, of theai, and that means have been taken
tu prevent r.ny improper tranffer.
Henry Philips,
No. in, South Front-ftroet.
Jutie x. « 3aw6w
For Said?
That lull!inown place, called VANniGßifT's
FFnr,
ON Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two story stone bouse occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one jjorv stone kit
chen, a large frame ftjble with i good threlhing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well cf
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a moA elegant situation for a gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jundlion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jerky Ihore. It has the privilege
of one half the tell received from the bridge.
For terms,apply to the Ssbfcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
May 24. jtawtf.
Musical Injirumcnt Manufactory,
N». 167, Arcb-Streel.
HARPER, harpfi chord,grand, portable grand,
fid:-board, pier table and square piaro forte
maker front London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by hi* alliduity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fertes made 6n the newest
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp flop, which'he flatteis
himfelf will ue found, on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenry per cent cheaper. Any inftru
m.r.t purchased of him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical instruments made,
tuned, and rejgiret) with the. greatest accuracy,
dil'patch, and on the moli reasonable terms, lor
ready money only.
Second hand Piano Fortes take!} ill exchange.
May ae. u&am.
This Day is Published,
BY Mctr. Dobfon, Caiey, Campbell, Rice, and the
othei Bookfeileis,
riee One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
F.ltgattl'y printed on fVovt paper, and Het
prejfed,
Dv John Th»rrpfon,
A COMPARATiVIt VIEW'OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with eaih other, and with
thai of the United State*: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Constitution, and
eliding together their most impertant provisions,
under the feveTal heads ef adniiniftraticn j With
Notes Mid Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Suulb-CarJina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcli of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of tie United States.
N. B. A few Copies priatedac an inferior pa
per, at .Wthsaf a dollar.
February 6 v mwf
Ciry of Wa/hirigton.
SCHEME °
Of the I.ottery, No. 11,
For lie Improvement of the Federal City-
A magnificent Swelling dcUars,
Sc cash 0,000, are jojiu-v
I ditto 15,000 & czli ij,009 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cjih 15,000 30,00 c
1 ditto 10,000 & caOi 10,01)0 20,000
l* ditto 5,000 '<. ci!h s,t>rjo 10,00'
I ditto 5,000 & ciffc 5,000 10,000
1 caih prize of JO,ooo
. 1 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,011
to do. 1,000 - - to,oo>
*© do..- 500 - - - jo,ooe
00 do. i'>« - - 10,1x10
too do. 53 - -
400 do. »5 - 10,000
1,000 do. a® 10,000
iSjOys do. 10 • 150,00 c
i«» 739 Mies.
Klankt.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour thofc who may take a quan
tity ol Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawa ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
Aud approved notes, fecaring payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received 101 any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This L»ttery will afford an elegant Ijiecimen of
chc private buildings to be erecled in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
(defied for the entire fronts on two of the public
l'quares; from these drawings it ispropofcd to ere6l
two centre and *our corner bsildixgs,as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenfes.of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National UnivCrfity, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgivtn for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more tfcan half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLGiKSET.
,§ t Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard W'll', Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
STICKNEf j PATENT ARCHER IDGET
\ NY person defirotis of information refpefk
fi ing this new conftrudlion, may obtain it
without delay by application pr. letter, or oth
erwise, to John Stickney, merchant of Woreef
ter, (Maflachufetts) who will «nake known
the many advintages arising frcm this manner
of building, and upon application he will either
vend a patent right, or attend personally to fu
perintendthe building of any bridge required.
June 10, 1797- *eozw.
Now Landing,
At Pratt'J wharf,
FROM on board the (hip Thomas Chilkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
in csfts
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins inhoxes
For Sale by
Rtindle £s° Leech.
May 15
7 For Sale,
AN ELEGANT AND VERT COMMO
DIOVS
Three story brick House,
And Lot of Ground thereunto belonging,
I N Arch, above Seventh-ftrect, being a high, plea-
X fant situation and good neighbourhood. The said
house is twenty-fix feet in frout by 48 feet in depth
and a piazza twenty feet in depth, and 2 story kitchen
witbpantries 31 feet in depth, in the piazza there is a
commodious (lair cafe with mahogany railing, and
there is also a back flair cafe; said house isfinifhed.
in a complete and modern ftlle, with marble
chimney pieces, stucco cornices, mahogany
«Scc. The said lot is 38 1-2 feet in bresdth, about
300 feet in depth t and has two fronts ; on said lot
is a laFge brick coach house and stable, well finifhed,
and plaiftercd, a pump of good water in the yard,
and about the premises there are many conveniences
too tedious to cuumerate*
The above property will be fold clear of all in
cumbrances, and the terms of payment made easy to
the purchaser.
For ftmhrr information apply to
JOHN ELLIOTT CRESSON,
No. 144, South Second-Jlreet.
June 9. fmiultu
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every ft age of
that disease, without the use of mercury or
1 eftraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple, on ,
application at No. Chefnut-fcreet, opposite
the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter-llreet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
he ha» opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
pledges himfelf, that nofyftem of cure (however
ipecious) v can be effe&ual without mercury, and
that all ttie known rules of pradice for thele two
centuriespall, and united experience affir.cis, that '
any fubftituts for it is but nngatory, and sny mode
of pra&icc to the contrary mull be futile and de
ceptious.
Nevcxthelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated th e cafe, to efledfc a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's constitution, and
inttiem e not generally experienced or ejcpecled.
N. B. Regular attendance at thecflice in Water
s* r eet from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn-
J D g until one, and from three o'clock iu the' even
ing, until seven; but any o.her time at his dwelling
house, in Chefhut street.
Jone 19 dtf
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three (lory Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennfvlvania, the lot on which it stands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
pends to Goforth-flreet. The bonle is about jo,
feet in l:xmt on Lodgeilley, aud about 42 feet
iu depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and' 42 feet on Goforth
llieet, being a street which leads from Cfiefnut
ftreetand Carter's«lley into Dcck-ftrett at the
horse market. The house confilU of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places,, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
othtr about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with exteniive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this houle
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
jCo'B per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrancei.
For terms apply to fchrt Clement Stacker.
April *0 3*wtf
Par Sato\
ON board the Ibip Moliv, Jcha Trail, master
Irani Liverpool, hying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine (loved Salt,
And W ARfc, well asT-ned,
By PHILIP Co.
Who HAVR IN STORK, ALSO FOR SALt,
100 Boxes WhiteHavarna Stignfs
Imperial and ? T ,
Hylon J
17 tuhs Qiiickfilver
ichrfts Baridanno Handkerchief*
A few thefts Mancheiter Goot's aflfcrted
in cordumys, thicksets, ginjrlts:u», nmllitiets,
dimities, &c. iTrunks blaik Tewing silk,
180 Cratei queens ware, we'll aflorted,
10 Tons ftieet lead, • '
Mails afibrtfc 1 , flit and, lliarp points,
London particular and > Madeira Whe in
India market J pipes anu hlids.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tenerifie Wine,
10 pipes choict Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes n bundles writing slates,
1 box ink-fUnds & note preflcs,
Sail canvas assorted No. I a 8.
May 4. dtf
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of £rft quality
i.9 half sacks do. do.
a few Boms of Spices, confining of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by „
mLLJNGS y FRANCIS,
PennJlreet.
May io dtf
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further afTeflment of fifteen
dollars is levied on each share, payable in the
following instalments —viz.
One quartet immediately.
One quarter on the ift of June.
" One quarter ou the ift September.
One quarter on the xft Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. st north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that en their negle<Sling to pay the
fame as above direfled, the fev&ral forfeitures
diredled bv the Constitution, willl be exited.
Bv order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Treafurcr.
Mav 1? fim
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given totheShare Hold
ers, that a further afTeflWient of nine col
lar s is lsvied oa each share, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the ift of July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
• No. 53, North Fourth-street, jgreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their neg!e£ling to pa the
fame as above directed, the fevera 1 forfeitures
will be exacted.
By order of tlje Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treifurer.
May S7. d3ot
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Thomas, and for sale on rea funable terms
by the package
Plati.llas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Rouens
Post and Pro Patrii Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
l Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Bert Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and icccnd Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogftreads
Jamaica Spirits
Conne£iicut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotton
Hosiery
April 18. 4aw
Millinery Room,
No. 13:6 Market-flreet.
MISS CHSTSTAt
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that lhe has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &c. which lhe hopes to be able to
fcew them in a few days.
May 18 s.tot
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna S^ufa^es,
OF A SUPERIOR QUALITY\ %
To be fold at No. 199 South front-Street.
April go* eotf
Notice.
ALL persons indebted to the Estate of Sarah
Marshall, deceased, are requested to make
immediate payment, and those that have demands
against faii estate, are desired ta hring in their ac
counts properly attc&ed forfettlement, to either of
the fubferibers. Christopher Marsh ill, Jr.
Caspar W. Haines,
Abraham M. Garrigoes,
Aclminiftrators to the Estate of Sarah Marftiall,
deceased. June 3 2aw.^w
J A. MES D AVENPORT
REfpeflfully informs the Citizens of the United
States that he will mske Machines for Spinn
ing Hemp, Flax, Tow, Cotton, Wool, manutec
turing Twines, and weaving, by wat«r, on the
most reasonable Terms.
A Manufa&ory on this principle, he flatters
will meet with very gentral patronage, as
the Machines will be made and delivered, complete
ly furnifheJ, fer Spindk or Piece ; nor will any
charge be madefnrhisPatentßijhts.but Liberty will
be given to the Pm chafer to use them ; the great
inconvenience of employing Vt orkmcn in the > r.-c-'
tion of them will be the person v. iiliirg
to extend them will be able etaflly to- calculate the
eipenti. He engages to set them to work, and
alio inftrufl or caule to be inllrunted, any person
or persons, in any part of the Union, who may
purthafe these Machines, in their principles and
method of ereflion, such purchasers paying travel
ing tipences.
For terras, application maybe made at No. 74,
Mjrket Street, Philadelphia.
*,* It it requested that all letters may be p»llpaid.
June 10 »6r,
St. Übes Salt.
3000 bulhels St. Übes SALT, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, cs 3 Co.
Jvne 12.
The Commiftioners
FOR carrying irte effeiS the TVZNTY-FIRST
Article of tt>e Treaty of Fiiendliiip, Limits,
and N;rrijatior, between His Catholic Mnjffty
and the United States of America, hereby giro in
formation toallPerfons thtrein uoncuxct.!, — rhat,
in order to terminate a'l d.ilertnics, t-" account of
the leffes fuftaiueu by the LitiatOs of the United
States, in conference of ttteir VeffeU and Car
goes having b*en taken by the Stibje&sof His Cath
olic Majlfty, during the late War between f pain
and France, lha: th.ey are-ready to receive (at th.-ir
OEic:-, between the hoartof ten and on; o'clock,
daiiy) alt complaints and app'jcjtiiuis, authorized
by the ftid Aiticle, during Eighteen Months
Irani the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all fucfi perfous as some before
:htn>, jnoath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and a'ifo to receive in evidence,
all written teftitnory, authenticated in such man
ner as they'iall thir.k proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Ccmrnifiiuntrs,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmiflioners Office, Ao. 109* Mulberry
reet, Philadelphia, May i-th, 1797.
io—s4 w
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Neatly bound and lettered, price idols, 15 cts.)
By G. DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
No, 4 B,' North- Third Street,
7be Adventures of Telcmachus.
French and Englilh, 2 vols. i2ino.
AMONG the books whichdaily fall into the
hands of the yoXJth of both lsxes, none
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele
machus. The most interesting leflons are here
conveyed in the Vehicle of,an interesting Poem,
replete with th: fined touches of the true pa
thetic, and erabelllhed with all the graces of a
beautiful style. The fatal effeils of indulging
the paflions are exemplified in the most finking
manner ; and the happiness atteiding inno
cence and virtue painted in the liveliest colours.
Whatever can incite tb virtue or deter from
vice ; whatever can enlighttn the underfland
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interesting work.
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geqgraphical Dictionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all the countries and isl
ands in the known world ; lhowing their lati
ude, foundings, aad stations for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the fevera! Bays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the lhape and appearance at sea, of t,He seve
ral Headlands, Isthmuses, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, and whatever is of use or impor
tance to the Mailer, Pilot, Commander, or
Seaman of any ibip or vessel, in navigating the
watery clemenr.
Also Comprehending
Ample DiretiUons for iailing into or out of the
different Ports, Straits, and Harbours of the
-four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding
dangers on the various and extended coafls ; in
whieh niore than twelve thou (and diftinfl names
of places, are treated us and explained. With
a correCt set of Charts, 2 vols. Bvo. price 6 tlols.
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM,
gj" This has been pronounced the most ufe
ful and the Cheapest book published in America.
June 0. dtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. G ROOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpeft, return* her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
die has received during four yc.irs re.'idence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
ichool, {he has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and maflers excelling in their
refpeflive profrflions,
C<jrner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. simftf
Thefituati.il is perfeflly healthy •, and made
more agreeable by an exter-five garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houlir.
, Houfhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private iale, No. 1 7 Pock
ftreetT-confiftiug a. chairs, tables, looking
glafTes, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedftcads,
leather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
June 2 §
To Let,
' \ I ""I JE BUILDING now occupied by the Bank
X. of the UNirtD States. For terms en
quire «f Edward Garrigues, No 59, Cherry-ftren
N. B. Also a larjre, convenient Cellar in a good
fituaticn : Apply as above.
June 15 c °tf
New Hat and Holiery Store.
fnjl Imported,
In tbc jhips William Perm and Star,from London % and
noru opening by
WILLIAM M'DOUtALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, Ho. 134,.
Market street
Anelcgant assortment Ct silk, cotton ani thread
Stockings
bilk, cotton ani thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c.'&c.
Likewise, a handsome assortment of "men's, wo
men's, and children's falhionable Hats, luitablcfor
the Stafon.
• A cenfi'lerable quantity of low and mi Idle priced
Hats alforted in cafet>, intended for country flares
May 23. taw
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire froci bufinefj, invites all
who have anv no-.e, bill, bond or acceptance
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and those
who wilh to anticipate may rtceive the money
at a reasonable discount.
JAMES SWAN.
M*y 22. diw.
Dorcheilt r, near Bofto/i, 16th May f 79?,
An elegant Houl'e in Arch^itreet 1 .
TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
elcgam liouic at the corner of Arch and Niutb-ftreet.
Thcie are.two drawing room?and one dining room
—the hrgeft is 31 feet by 26—and two are so cojj.
netted by folding doors a» to make but one. Also,
five bed rootns, befidc five in the girrer, well finifh
ed for fervarws. There are itebles ind a coachhouse,
with cve'y com enience for a far®ily. No.
29, in Nor4hSe\e»uh-flrect, or at No. *lB, Arcb
itreet.
Also to be rented for the summer season, a small
neat houfc and garden about 3 1-2 miles 'from the
oitv, with ftablce akd coach bcufe, as above.
Jnne 6. I x aaVgw
The CqiTimiffionefx
carryin£"mto effeil the sixth article of thd
L treat/of amity,commerce and navigation, con
cluded between his Britannic mstjefty and thrUrited
States of Anurira.pn the 19th day of
1794, having thii fay conititut!d their Board,
purl'uarit and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notf-c. that they are ready to proceed to
baiGuif* accordingly ; and the y desire that all claims
under the said article (which lb far as the fame de-
the cafjs thereby pri-vided for, ii hereunto
annexed) r.iAy be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
They further desire that all l'ucb claims may rot
only l'tate in-»-hat manner the fevrrjl cases coine
within the defcriptloa of the said article, hut ulfo
fpeelal'y set forth he nature of the evidence by
which the claimantsrefpeiively undertake tafu!>-
Itantiate the fame.
Ex>ra<sl from the said artirie,
" Whereas it is aflcdged by divers Uritifh mer
" chants, and other-; his ruajeft) 's fuhjctSs, that
" debts to a conffd rah]s amount, which were hona
" fide contracted, before the peace, still rtm'ain
" owing to thent hy citizens or iahabitaot»- of the
" United States 1 and that by the operation of vz
" rious lawful impedimenfs, liwce the peace, not
" ordy the fuH recovery of t(e said debts has bceri
" delayed, but also the value and feeurity thereof
" have been in fevcr.il instances impaired and IcS
" ened, so that by the ordinary course of |l. J1C..1!
" proceedings, the Britiih creditors cannot cow
" obtain and a&ualiy have and receive fu.l anj
" adequate comper-fation for the lo&s and dama
" ges which tney have thereby fuf ained : It is 3-
" greed tliut in all fu{h cases where full compenfa
" tion for fuchloiTes and damages cannot for what
" ever reason be aflu illy obtained, lud and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary 'course
" of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compenfotion for the fame to the said
" creditors: hut it is diftin&ly understood, that
" this provifian is to extend to futh lofl'es only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, and is not to extend to lofies occasion
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally h*ve operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the laid impediments had aot
" existed ; nor to such 1 o or damages 25 have
" bee» occasioned by the man licit delay, oinegli
'• fccucc, or wilful oiniflion of the cLimant."
By order nf the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, CommifSoners' Office,
No. 3 fouthSixth-ftreet, May 29,
'797- J 6-§lm
I^HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miuiiler Pleni
potentiary ol his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
for aflifting Britiih creditors, and lucfi particular a
ger.ts a» they may specially authorise, in protecut in"
ihcir claims before the csmmoTioners Cor carrying in
to effeft the sixth article of the Treaty of Amity, Ccm
tnerceand ligation between tis Britannic i- ajejly and
the United States of America, hereby gives- notice that
he has opened his offi. e at his koufe the south efilt
coiner of Chefnut and fifth llreets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or inlUuftions
for claims with the vouchers aud documenti thereof,
for the purpose of biinging forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prcfcribe.
And as it will be lor the interest of all concerned,
that the several claims be so slated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise trom
the neceffityof obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from perlons residing at a dittance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the profixution of
their claims ta his charge and management} that all
such claims ought in particular to fct forth—
»ft. The proper description and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, reflect
ively.
ad. The date or nature of the original contrast or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claitnaqt wis preventrd or impeded,
by the protifion, operation or delete of law, the
decifioiis »rii prafiice of courts, or rcflraint of exe
cution, from recovering piyment of the debt in
question.
4'h. The loss and incurrcS or fullained,
in consequence ot ftrcli impediments, whether the
fame may have arise.l from the insolvency, change of
situation, or dea'h of the debtor, the lots of legal
lemedy from lapfc of time, orothercaufe.. impairing
the value and feeurity of the debt, which would ir.it
have so operated it such impediments had not;cxille.f.
And .jth The particular grounds and reasons ou
which the claimant maintains, in the term, of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course ol judicial pro
logs, the creditor cannot now obtain and a&a.'ly
have and receive full and adequate compcr.fstion" 101
the losses and damages so fullaiucd.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to futf
f>eft that tljr f vera! claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regtflarly atieilcd, both as to iUeexifltnec.
of the debts claimed, and fucb other circurnltancea
as may be within their own knowledge refpcftively.
nnd wherever th,c Claimants inflating the nature of
their evidence (which mull in every inflance be the
bell of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
icier to the teflunony of wiieelies, it wilt be prcper
to apprifc the general agent of the names anrt plicsJ
of 1 cficcnce of luch witncfTet and the faftsto be cl'.f
blilhcd by tiieir teflimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth, 1797. dim
Nathaniel Lewis & Kan,
Have for sale at their flare, No.'] a, adjoining
George Latimer & Son, P'tne-Jlreet Wharf
A Quantity of
Madeira Wines
In pipe- and half pipes
Madeira Walnutsand Citron, kte'y imported
in the fchooncr Sincerity, Cnpt. Copia
Atfc,
35 Puncheons, feconc and third proof, IVcfl
lndia Rum, and a tew Pipes of 3ra*dy
They have cc:i!lant!y or. hand and Tor sale,
French Burr and Country Mill Stom, of variot s
size.i, and a general assortment of CUtL of
the best quality, both American and Foreign ma
nufailure. The former having proved, from se
veral years expi riccce of a cumher of millers in
different parts of the United Stat«s at leafl equal,
and in many iiiiUTices fnperi.tr to the Eurcpeatv
Cloths, wchope the manufacturer, Robert Datj
fon, will meet with liberal encouragement in t!.i»
important and nfefql undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent and excltiCve of jnaliiiij/ and
vending Btultmg Ctfth on his iir.proved ( lan for a
number of years, and they are ioid oniy by him
felf in Lancaster, iljte ol Pennsylvania, and l>y
the fubffriLiers ir. Philadelphia.
June 14 ' d
C O T T () N.
A few oaiesjuft arrived, for sale by
JOHN CLARK,
No. ss North Water Strict.
June 10. eot f.
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice confining M the following
Coail Good*, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Clot!», 14 pimjums
Do. do. firir
Madrafs Handkerchief:, and
fiaok MuCint
WILLING (3* FKAKCIS.
March 17. f 14 w