of tijt IStittets States, *nb Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1612.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For nr r c, 000 s. ' i
r Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56, '
m, j ) south Front-llreet,
Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
South Front -street.
r Forenoon—John Connetly, Old City g
_ S Auiftion, No. 73 fouA Front-street.
\ Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
183 High-street.
yrr , r j C Aiternoon—Peter flenfon, No. 74
JVtdAcfdaj j fomh Thin ,. ftrcet . q
C Frnenoon—Edward Fox. si
Tour/day | Afternoon—John Cenielly.
„ . , 7 Forenoon—William Shannon.
n "J Afternoon —John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon. _____
Unsted States, 1 „ 1
Pcnnfylvania DiJfriS,
tN purfuaqce ot a writ to me direiiled from the
J[ honorable Richard PiTtR j, Esq. Judffe of the P
Diftrifl Courf of the United States in and for the
Vennfylvania'Diftri.3, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the Custom-house, In thr city of Phi
ladelphia, 011 Friday, the 17th inft. at IX o'clock
*c noun, ,
2 hampers of EarthenWare _
I box of Indigo
1 box of Merchandize
I half barrel do.
10 bags of Coffee
j barrel of Svitt Petre
a barrels t
1 k;-f >- of Linens
1 trunk J I
1 barrel ef Susjar . c
I hag Sf Pepper, and
Part of 3 bags of Sugar
Th« 'ame having l>ecn libelledappinft, proficuted
ai'd tondeinied a» forfeited, in the ("aid Court.
WILLIAM
Matjhal.
Marshal's Offtce,
id November, 1707. S dtS. I
United States, ) j
Pcunfylnania Di/lrirf,
fN purfuanca ps a writ to mc directed from the
1 honorable *ich ac Peters,Elq-Judge of the
Diltrifl Court of the United Statei, in 4nd for t u c
Pcnnfylvania DiftriA, will he exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the Cuitom-houfe in the city of Phila
dclfhia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at It o'clock,
at noon,
354 Silver Watches
30 gold Watches
500 Watch Keys
The fame having been libelled against, prosecuted
And condemned as Vrfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
Marshal's Office, ?
»d November, 179; $
1o be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On Mortday, the 13th day of November next,
at II o'clock In the forenoon, at the late dwel
ling plantation of Alehasd' r Porto, Kfq.
deceafedjin tTie Hundred and County of New-
Caille,
All the Stock of the said Farm,
, Confi Unj of ho'lt s fit for draught or fiddle,
eolts, far cattle, milch cows, calves, fcveral
pairs of large and valuable oxen. Sheep and
hogs (all the horned rattle am! sheep, being of
a verv large and fine breed ) ;ind also carts, har
rows, ploughs, and other farming uteiifils, to
gether with a variety furniture.
The conditions rf S»le will be made known,
attbe time and place aforefaid.
Mary Porter, Admrx.
New Castle Hundrtd, State of
Delaware, OtJ. ao, 1797- J
£T AlI prrlOHS indebted to the estate of the
faiil Alexander Porter, are requefled to ipake
payment, and those who have demands against
the fame, to produce ttiem duly authenticated,
for settlement. '
Oiil. 30.
For Sale, by the Package,
For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
vifc.
Boole and Jaconet Muflitis plain ")
ft. ipes, and Checks i A (Torted in
do. do. Tamboured |> ,
do. Ladiej handkerchiefs, & |
gentlemen's neck do- J
Jaconet chintz m'.flin for home and the Welt
Ind a market, Puilicote and linen hindkcrchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
ehintz (hawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
poetation- Also a few scotch eambricks and an
affirtment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above being aconfignment
from the manufacturers in Britain.
To be seen at William BIACKBI'Rn'
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. (<■ ; .
All Perlons who are indebted to
the estate of William Hevsham, fen. of Phila
delphia, deceased, are requelled to make speedy
payment; and those who have any demands a
gainst said estate, will please to present thetii, pro
perly attf fled, to the fubferibers.
William Hey/ham, ~i
Robert Hcyjham. j- Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayfc, J
mmmhr 6. 2aw 4 W_
Wants a Place, as a WE T NURSE,
A YOUNG Woman, who can be well recom
mended.—Enquire of the Frinter.
October 31. Tv ~
"** Philadelphia, 03. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their frisnds and cufto
uisrs in town aiid country, that their {lorys are now
open in the city, and others are dai'y opening, and
tjlat from the prdfent appearance of the prevailing
di.order l ave reafoh to hope, their friends may
ft irtly come to the city with perfed fiif. ty. lly
fevcral Urn arrivals, narn!>er« have received frelh
supplies of OOOpS. _ '
Robert Smith Go. P. ■ Gallaudet c 7 Co.
J,brt Davis if Co, * Skgrca-ves o French,
Hell 'jf Smith, George Dcbfon,
Wi benvr and Smith, Thomas Rycrjcn,
Ale v Titjland and Co. T. «• Haritsnberg. >
'Jacob Spcrry and Co. John Smith and Co-
Ozucn J Jon*. Jones, 1 homes Qrr,
Kepbel c? Zantzingcr, William Barker U Co.
Mam Zantvnger, Thomas Armat EJ Son.
John Fries, J- Miller, jua. and Co
BtrjamU ES" J-
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 8, 1797.
For Sale or Charter,
ti&# GOOD HOPE,
Wi 1 carry about 1100 barrels,and j
i» ready to take in a cargo. For terms i!
•TitiiiiiV, V, apply' to IS
Pragers & Co. 11
No. 151, South Second-ftrcst. ™
- Who hare for fait'—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffc wine.
November 7. dtf. J
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very ficfl quality, in pipes, bhds. and
quarter calks, juj lande from the Ihij Edward,
from Madeira, and for sale by la
JOHN CRAIG, «•
No. ii, Dock-street. _
WHO HAS FOR CHARTER,
CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about 1100 barrels,
j u (l hove down and put in com
plete order, and now r.ady to receive a c*rgo.
Alfa, For SALE, «• CHARTER,
j 0 sE'PHUS,
Burthen about 1800 barrets.
nruembeK 6,
For Liverpool,
* The Ship
c lothU R, ]
HS»yP;i§V NathanielD. Gardner,majlcr,
"ITTILL fail about the 15th j
\ V inft. For freight or pas- 1 a
faee apply to the Captain, at Vantixem's whi.rf, j „
o r to JAMES OLDDEN, j c
riov. J. dtf No. 41, N. Front-ftrcf ■ , f
t or Lundon, 1
' Mfc THE SHIP I
WILLIAM VENN, «
James Jofiah, Majler, c
"IT TILL fail with all conven
er sSctiS^i 1 - 5 \\ i cn t expedition. For )
Freight or Paf&g \ apply to the Captain, or to
JeJ/e'isf Robert Wain.
_oa .31. * ' . i
For London,
THE SHIP J
Danifl M'Pherfon, Majlcr. '
t<l fail with all convenient f^efd —a confidcra- (
blc part of her cargo being already engaged.
For terms of Freight or Paflage, apply tt» . (
Rofs & Sim/on.
Ot!>. ij. 4
For SAVANNAH,
- . TUI »AST (AIM NO SHIT
► ■■-■-it Packet,
. ;, .f t"k \. Patrick Gribbin, Majlcr.
NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
'***' " above Race-Hreet. I* haudfome
ly accommodated for and will fail with
ail convenient speed. Fop freighter paflage,apply
ro the Master on board, or at No. 95, South
Front-ftrcet, or of the fubferiber*,
N. iff. J. Frazier.
OA. 18. dtf
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By fliip Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, fro*»t Oporto, in Hog(hea«i< y
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFfcltS FOR SAL*,
The Ship
A M I T r,
:.t jj Four thousand barrel, burthen,
. j„ ex. client order—ready to take
in a cirgo—about three year* (Id.
LUCI-WISV,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars*
Jufl landed from the above veffelj at South street
»harf. eoim. Nov. I.
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing front on hoard the
Brig A.ilivfc, William William*, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d k 4th proof,
And for Sale by,
Jehu Hol'lingfworth & Co.
Wilmington, Sepf.ii. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
the brig GAYOSO, are
). "jK also for Sale or Charter, and
~ lulg ready to receive a cargo
~ f on board, it Wilmington. Apply as above.
For Charter,
THE SHIP
• Jobn Bulkley,
Samuel Volaris, Majler.
r 'HIS vefTel is built of liveoaV.
'•» jL and cedar, of about 30CO
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
"Jcffc £sf Robert Wain.
- oa jr. $
i
v For Freight or Charter,
ftwk THE COOD B»1G
y S U K E Y,
y 3' aac Vrcdenburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's whart, and in <■ ompUat
order to receive a For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
John Slyrin,
No. Br, Arch-ftrcet.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun P»vv<kr
300 barrc's of Herrings
j. so bolhels of Timothy Seed
0 150 cafe* of Claret, fifft quality
Andaqoantity ps Sherry Wirse.
Sept. i<>.
By John Fen no, N O, 119 Cbe[nut Street.
For Amfterclam, 1
The Ship
WILWjNGfON, i .
HJman 5 J
A launch, fart Phi- i
live <snk and cedar, is now in complete erder, ard
will fail with all pclfible fpcvd, h vtnr ■ 'tz&yvft of
her already eog::g£4- l'"or fr >r p»f
fage (I>avmg excellent accommodations) apply to
the captain on board, or to
Sumqwrl fef Brown,
< Who have or. hand,
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
lafTes, and a few rhoufand weight of excellent Cor
dage, including fcveral Cables of
november V tnth&srf t
tor Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in while and !•*-/ tierces
Bout dfaux Brandy
TeneriJJe Hlne
Molajcs
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Rarens Duck and one bogjhend nf paiit
bru/ijej.
1. N. (5* J. Frazer.
No. 95, Sonth, Front Street.
Nips'■ 7 , dim.
Drawing & Fainting Academy,
No. 6?, Wilnut-ftreet.
JAMES COX,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and the
generous public, that his academy opens this
day. Norsmbcr rhc 6th.
Hours ot tuiti'm lorladie?, from i till 4 in the
afternoon, and in Ihe ev.r.iiigfrom 6 till 8 for
gentlemen.
j! Cox hasaddxdto his collection of copies a va
riety of fine views, &c. drawn frjtu nature during
hUahfcnce from the city:
Ail itu.is of colour, prepared, Xnil e««ry article
used in the diSbrent bitnichus of deal ing anu
painting, fold on reasonable terms.
Terms of Tuition, Six Didlart and a balf per
quarter. _ t
A morning class for grown bdies, frrom 11 till k
Ji o'clock. d}t nw. 6.
A Negro Man.
I?OR SALE, the unexpired time (four years) ''
of a (lout, healthy, aSive Negro Man. H«
is by trade a Cooper, was brenght up when a boy
to the farming bafinefs, is a good ploughman, ull
derftandsthe care and management of herfes, and
is a good driver He has lately been employed in
painting anew houfeand points well—he is good
tempered, and believed to be very honed, fold part- .
ly for want ofemploy.but more for Ueing addict
ed to liquor—For terms apply to No. la, Dock
street, near Spruce street.
Nov. 6. tf
1 TO BE LET—At * moderate Rent, -
The principal part of a HOUSE, \
WITHIN a short dillan«e of the Coffee-houfe, <
which has been occupied far the last four months, ]
conlifting of a good dining room and parlour, two ]
bed rooms and a dreflint room, two garrets, kkch- 1
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
fit for the immediate reception of a fraall family.
None need apply but tbofe who are refpe&able' and
regular. Inquire at the ofliceoF this Galette.
oa. 14. dtf
James &f Richard Smith,
the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
tlore to Wo. 54, South frintflrtei, mcxt d»or to Ed
ward Fox'* An A ion Room, where they have at
this time for sale 3 a large and general aflortoientef
European & Ecji India Goods,
Many Of which are just imported In tht Clothier,
William l'enn, &t. icc.^
oa. ' <s
St. Croix Sugar & Rnm,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON V Co.
, oa. a 6. ■
Samuel Pleaiants & Sons,
No. 74, South SecondJlreet,
HAVK received a supply of Seal'onable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reafonible terms. OS 17 —4W
ROSS Ssf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
' A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal CO T TON
Bengal SUGAR, in hags and boxes
Jamaica, "J
[ St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
oa. 27- ?
' 10 Gentlemen -who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
' tTTITH or without Eoard—at No. it 4, corner
W of Sixth and Race Streets. The Ctuiftion
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
° cot't«\gion. - Q6t. 17
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedish barque Guflavus Adolphus.from
Marseilles, coi.fiiting of the following articles,
is discharging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fuMci ibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of a, 3 & 4thproof
c Claret, in ho-(heads
a Uluo, In cafco
iTOilligmsjc Wine, in cases of jdboltles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in ba&cti of 6
and is bottles
Captrs
~ Olives
A Imonds
Ory-Verdigrtife
Writing Piper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 28, 30 and 31 inches
Taffeties
at Long and short white Kid Gloves for Women
p- Silk Stockings
Hatidkerch't's, in imiration of' Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands I
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
e Peffr.mery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
I>lanna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
Sspttm'. ;r a;. iftf
Young Hyson Tea.
40 cliefls of a superior quality-^-Alio,
100 dq.of Hyf"n, 4
Imported in the iP'oodrofi Sims, and for tile by I
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Fine
flrjet. ;
C. Haight.
November 6. eotf w
Mordecai Lewis,
) HAS FOR SALE, in ,
At his Store, No. Great Docfciftreet, p O ,
350 bale* of Bengal Goods os
Containine Baftas , •
Ooffas leal
Gur rails wa
Moragugungees * n
T 00k jry 1 J'
Check and Stripes to o
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Mamoody eIK
Calicoes m 0
It boxes Irish Linens * am
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
*0 canisters Java Sugar
78 b»gs Mack Pepper
li 6 do. East India Ginger
100 calks roll Brimstone
jc pipes Madeira Wine
57cafksGin
A quantity of sheathing Copper and l«» : Is. at
OAobtr 30. 3aw3w
. >' e
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White f
Hollands
While Sheetings 1 y e
DowlafTei
Sile'aa Handkerchiefs
Striped Siaanoufes in
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4 an
Glifu Tumblers, and Looking Glasses, in
in oases, &c. &c. r
George Pennock.
November 6. eodjW
Samuel & Miers Fiftier, Ja
ARE NOW OPEKING, dl
At their Wsrehoufe, No. 17, Dock Street, a freft. of
afTortment of Woolen and other goods, iu.t.iblfi to I
the season, received by the late arrivals from Eng- H
land.
The t have tlfc fir Sale, I
Lilbon Ta
Sherryfand ( ln " d uarter {i
Port Wines, 3 *
AfTorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo- 23d. dlw3taW3W._ d
FORSALE, I
bt the subscribers, No. »1, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, 4
John Green, commander, froht Bengal, ii
Conjijiing of tl
Baftas, of various qualities & prices *
1 CofTaes Punjum Cloths
1 Sanahs «uztey do.
1 Humhums Charconna Dorei 1
1 Blue Cloth Tanjibs
■ Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
• Mataoodys Checks
• Maharagoiigts P.itua Hhkfs.
I Ginghams Klulmul do. ,
Guzzenas Bandannots ]
Gnrrahs Siflerfojr
Piniafcoel Choppi Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do. 1
s Gillie Romals Perliansof variouscolonrs
r Mock PuTlcats
100 torts SUGAR
t 90,cc0 lb. PiJPPER.
f Willings & Francis.
In the eoprfe oif a few days, the PIECE
> GOODS, composing the cargo of thiHiip Ganges,
will be exposed for sale at that large commodious
Store, the fcotlhweft corner of Market and Fourth
street«, where a bale of every fpecivs of Goods will
1 e open. d Oil. 3L
FOR SALE,
BV THE SUBSCRIBERS,
-(Madeira Wine, firft quality, i«
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
S, Lisbon WINE, in pipes
" NUT^MF} ofthe lile!l im l yort>tion ' " ,otes
Spanish Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Witlings If Francis,
. Penn-ftreet, No. 21.
J Nov. I. wftstf
Jufl arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, »tid Tbr Sale by the fubferi
bers, »->. at, Penn-ftreet,
hoglheaa.,*^
8» tierces ( Prime Coffee
-«■ 523 batreli (
® 646 bags , J
Willings & Francis.
Oil. is. §
LAN D~l N G,
on From on board the ship Cleopatra, Samuel NeWell,
ite commander, from London,
_ 6cJ toss of the best clean Russia
HEMP
60 rafks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. it, Fcnn-flreet.
"" Willings £s? Francis.
r or Oil. 31. d
EOR SALE,
,of By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general afTortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, cosififting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials, ,
Springs, Hands, Glades, Pumice Stone, Emery,'
Itotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, Hand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &.C. &c.
* # * Apprentices Wanted,
nov,'iv.bcr 3. ffitutf
ien REMOVAL.
Maurice Moynihdtl,
INFORMS his frienas and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, Glals, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 Norih Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north cafl
cornej- of Cherry Alley,, where he folieits the fa*
vor ofhis former cu!>omrrs.
I B. Crates put up with eare at the fiiortejl
notice
s jcevember J. its
POSTPONED SALE.
Cj* On account of" the rain on Saturday 1
evening, the Sale of Notes which was '
then to take place, was poftpoued to
THURSDAY EVENING, Nov. 9,
at 8 o'clock, at the Merchant's Coffee
House. At which time and place
Will be Sold at Public Auction,
dais. cts.
I NotS drawn by James Greenleaf
in favour of and endorsed by Edward
Fox, dated 9th Augult, 175i6,du: nth
Oflober la!t, ' '>3so
3 do. drawn by said James Greea
leafm favor of and endorsed by Ed
ward Fox dated sth ■' uyufl, 1796, at
,4 months date, 1 payment dols. 1681
13, 1681 14,"and 2681 14, amount
together 8043 41
3 d# do. of fame date, drawn artd
endorfed'as aforeiiid, payable in eight
months, (Myijienti.dols. 4493 75 each,
amount togfcCher 8081 15
3 do. do. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed as aforefaid, payable in II
months' dols. 4693 75 each,
amount together ' , 8,081 «5
15505 91
1 draft drawn by Robert Morrison
jflinNicholfon,dated2BthMay, 1796,
at IJ months ' SCCO
I do. drawn asaforefaid.at two
years 5 000
I do. drawn by John Nichol
fon, on Robert Merris, dated 281 h
May, 1796, at 3 ) ears 5000
I do. drawn as afor:faid, at 4
years 5000 ,
i..— 20,00®
The said drafts are fi'curcd by Ihares
in the North America Land Company
and endorsed by James Greenleaf
r Note dated Boiton, 18th May,
171} drawn by Thomas Dawes, jan.
in favor oT Thomas Gieenleaf, paya
ble rft Jatiuary, 1798, endorsed by Da
niel Greenjeai, Henry Newman and
Jame? Greenleaf 925<*
I do. dated Boston, 18th Nov. 1995,
drawn by Daniel Greenleaf, in favour
of Thomas Dawes, jun. payable ift Jan.
1798, endorsed by Thomas Greenleaf,
Henry Newman,Shd Jame»,Gre»nleaf 6}V3
3 Notes, dated Eofton, 17th Nov.
1795, drawn by Benjamin Haflcell, in
favour of James Greenleaf, payable ift
January, 1799, endorsed by said James
Greenleaf and Nahum Fay, dols. 5500
1500—1000 Seen
3 do.dated Boston, 17th Nov. 179J,
drawn and endorsed as aforefaid, paya
ble ift Jin. 1800, one payment, dols.
6200, 5000, 4000 15100
One bond, Zachariah Cox to James Greenleaf
and afligned by him, dated the 11ft March, 1795,
inxhe sum of ten thousand dollars, conditioned tof
the conveyanee of 25000 acres of Land, near th«
[ town of Frederica in Glyn county and state of
Georgia, the said band full due.
John Connelly, auctioneer.
nowrrtber 6*
Injurance Conpany of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THF. Office is again opened at the corter of
Walnut and Second ftrects, where applications are
received-as usual: co3t OA aB.
N O 1 I G E. ,
:s The'holders of certificates of a
loan to tie exiled citizens of thu State of South Ca
rolina .tnd Georgia, under an aflof Congress 13d
J*rly, 1781, are informed, thatby lodging the fame
with George Simpfon, Cashier of the Bank of the
United States, they will be enabled to receive pay
m?ntof principal and interest, asfoon asthe certi-
s ' ficates can be forwarded to Charleston for fettle
merit, and ordirs received for their discharge.
'j November r. 6t
To le Sold, '
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acfes of Land,
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
seven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a la rye family, at a mode
roti expense, and possession had in a few weeks.
Part »f tile pnrchafe-money being paid, a reafoiK"
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
novemter 3 mwftf
Imported in the latest arrivals from
_ Amsterdam and Hamburg, and forfale by
B. 1$ J. Boblen,
A large ajfortment of fine French Cambrics,
PlatUli# Kudia jtidDutchlailclotK
Bnttannias Writing, post, and print-
Rouanes ihg paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf ftin»
Checks and flripes Prime madder
Tiekfertburgs Shell'd Barley
Oziial)<irgS Looking glaJfes
_ White (heefcings Hv'low glass ware
Diaper Slates
:11, Bro'Wn rolls Coffee mills
UmbrtTlas Brass kettles
la Ilair ribbons Scythes and straw knlvei
Black and whitelaces Toys aflorted in boxes
Best Holland Gin in pipes
et London particolar Madeira Wine
Jo!y 14. ih&tfrtf
- Just publiftted,
And to be fold at the Bookftoris of H. P.
Rice, No. Sb, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
;ts > No. 41, Cliefrtut-flrett, and W. Youi)g,
1Q corner of Chefitut and Second-Greets, ~
ois. An accurate System of Surveying!
V,e-' I 111 WHICH IS CONTAINID,
:,n! I. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concile,
ll ' s ' and «afy tmnrier.
r Y; 2. Theextraflion of the root,
i®" 3- Plain trigofiproetryt re&ajigtilar and ot
lique.
4. An exadl methpd .0 cast up th« ecnteni*
L of Units.
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the pit
of scale andconipalTe3, on a table us logarithm?..
In which is given some account cf the variation
he of the needle, and the causes at its attraflioo.
ens By SAMUEL MOOREf.
So- August I-. jaw2«r
The Medical Leftures
In the Uiiiverfity of Pennsylvania, are pofr
■teS poned until the la.ft Monday in Novembej
next.
;f Oolobrr 14. * »aW4^-
[VOZVMB XII%ijZ.<s-&lZttZ.
PHIL ADiiLP It IA ,
U'SDNii'-D.AY EVEMt'IO, NOVEMBER 8.
SUBSCRIPTIONS.'
Amount of Subscriptions received for the
us? of the tick Poor of the City and Li
berties of Philadelphia, continued from
the bit Y"'tlication - Do/s. 2,613 96
Received fncc—wfrom '
Richard Harrifon of Philadelphia 20
Samuel Meredith, Esq. do. 50
Thomas Willing, Esq. do. 100
John Taggard do. 30
Isaac Haziehurft &. fori do. 50
John Elliot do. 30
Joseph Swift, Esq. do. 50
Benjamin Buck do. 10
Edward Simmons . ' do. •20
Sundry inhabitants of th« 1
village of Frankford. J 11 ~95
3,086 91
Total received from'the 25th of August
to the 2d or" November, 1797, is three
thousand and eighty-lix dollars and ninety
one cents.
Published bv order of the Committee,
SAMUEL COATES, Treasurer.
The Printers are requeued tcf publish the
above for the information of the fubferibers.
The Commi/fijtiers have feeived the following
Donations since laji publication :
FroVi John Barnes 10 dols. by the bands
of John Barnes la ; from Cheltenham, ad
ditional, by the hands of John and Thomas
Shoemaker 9 67 cts. cwt. rye flour, 2
cwt. buck wheat meal, 2 bush. Indian meal
and bufli. potatoes ; cash by Israel Israel
20 ; from the inhabitants of fyliddletown,
New Castle county, by John Mfcrrit and Ro
bert Maxweil, 120 87 ; from Zaccheus Col
liiKf'so ; from the inhabitants of Monmouth
county", New Jersey, by Morgan John
Reefe 68 ; Benjamin Loxley lo ; Moigan
J. Reefe, j 2 ; Rachel Richards, by Samuel
Bettle, 50 ; from futidry inhabitants of
Weft NaStmill township, Chester county,
by Djvid. Denny, 8 bbls. of rye, buck
wheit and Indian corn flour, with 10 58 5
from sundry inhabitants of Plymouth,
Montgomery county, by William Shep
pard Miller, 4 bbls, and 158 lbs. of com
mon fiour, 2 ditto of buck wheat meal, 5
bush. potatoes, 2 do. turnips, with 35 dols.
from the inhabitants of Strafburg township,
Lancaster county, by the hands of John
Carpenter, Jacob Erhlernan, and Archibald
Carpenter, 8 bbls. wheat flour, and 6 ditto
rye ; from sundry, inhabitants of Charlsf
town township, Chester county, by Ma
thias Peunybecker 45 ; from the clerks of
the market in High-street, collcfted by
them from the butchers and others in said
market, a meat and other pro
vifiows ; from Wm. Tilghman 50; capt.
tillis 2 ; M. Lankaynaye 2 ; Mrs. Brown
2 ; Dr. UlniO 2 ; M. Rayner 2 ; M. Brock
msn 4 ; M. Sevene 2 ; capt. Ruffeil 2 ;
capt. Roliff 2 ; capt. Mason 3 ; capt. Whe
lan 2.; from sundry inhabitants of Leacock
township, Lancaster countv, forwarded by
Abraham Gibbons, Iwck wheat meal 29
cwt. rye do. 17 cwt. 2 qr. wheat flour 6
twt. 2 qr. 14 lb. from Robert Corry 40
dols. Ann Corry 10 ; William Smith 25 ;
from certain inhabitants of Horfhham, and
part of Bucks county, by William Smith,
65 52 } from Cocolico township, Lancaster
county, by Peter Murton, 29 bbls. wheal,
rye and buck wheat flour, with 15 dols.
from Earl township, Lancaster county, by
Frederick Sieger and William Smith, 15
bbls. of wheat, rye and buck wheat flour,
and four pieces of bacon ; from Salisbury
townlhip, Laijcafter comity, by; David
Buckley. 784 lbs. of wheat, 343 lbs of
rye, and 967 lbs. of buck wheat flour ;
from sundry inhabitants of Upper Spring
field, and citizens there, by Joseph Sanfom,
too dols. from Whitemarfh and its vicinity,
by Joseph Potts, 104 40 ; from Daniel
Brodhead 2 ; frohi Strafburg village, col
lefted by George Duffield, 56 15 ; from
inhabitants of Columbia, Lancaster county,
forwarded by John Barber and John Hous
ton, 8 bbl«. of wheat flour, and 4of rye,
ground tyy Scott and Anderfon, and con
veyed by them to I#ancalt:r gratis, and
from thetice to Philadelphia by Emanuel
Reigart, without colt.
Donations received from Abington town
ship, collected by Thomas Fletcher, Ca
leb Hallowell and William Doughty—
Particulars published by requell :
James Doughty 30 dollars ; William
Doughty, infpeftor of health of "Southwark,
20 ; Thomas Fletcher 6 ; ca'fh 4 ; Joshua
Morris 6 ; Jofiah Lpngftreth 2 ; Caleb Hal
lowell 3 ; M. Terrice and Felix 2 ; John
•Magargal I ; William Hallowell, fen. 1 ewt.
meal ; Nathan Thomas 5 bushels potatoes ;
Isaac Phipps, fen. 5 ; Malachi Jones 3
bushels potatoes ; John Clayton, 1 jo;
George Fisher I 50; Domiriick Sheridan 1 ;
John Moore I 50 ; Samuel Leich 50 cts.
fames M'Mullen 40 cts. Robert Wilson 1 ;
Wm. Wcblter 5 bushels potatoes ; William
Hallowell, joiner, 1 ; JefTe Jenkins ? ; James
Walton 1 ; Jeremiah Walton 1 ; Thomas
Phipps 1 ; Jacob Deal 1 ; John Craft 4
bufrtels potatoes ; Francis Tomlinfon I ;
Jonathan Tafon 10 buthels turnips ; Elijah
Tyfon 8 bushels turnips ; Elizabeth Perry
1 ; Samuel Thomas I ; Joseph Logan 3
bushels potatoes ; Jacob Craft 2 do. George
Shriver 1 ; Jacob Paxton 5 bushels potatoes;
Mathew and John Hallowell 3 bushels tur
nips ; Thomas Tyfon 1 ; Mary Tyfon 1 ;
Revnard Tyfdn 2 bushels potatoes ; Sarah
Tyfon l do/ Thomas Webster 4; John
Tyfon 1 50 ; George Graft 2 ; William
Fritz 50 cts. Thomas Tyfou 2 ; Benjamin
Hallowell, fen. 2 ; Isaac Hallowell 150 ;
Barbara and fefle Tyfon 6 bushels potatoes ;
William M'Cathra 2 ; Jofiah Wood 2 bush
els potatoes and 1 dozen cabbages ; Benja
min Hallowell 2 buthels potatoes, cash by
William M'Calla 25 ; John Right 110 ;
John Eritck 50 cts. Thopias Livezay 1 ;
Solomon Miller 3 ; Isaac Tyfca one bush tl
buckwheat meal and cash 1 ; Hannah Wa
terman 2 ; Robert Fletcher, 4 ; Isaac Ro
berts x ; Barbara Roberts x 50 ; David
Lockart 50 Cents ; Prifcilla Dears I ; Ed
mund M'Veaigh 1 ■; Richard Whitton 1 50;
Richard Roberts I ; Martha Hallowell 1 ;
Wm. Ltikens I ; Agnus Tyfon 1 ; Eliza
beth Afhbridge 3 ; Jacob Paul 6 ; cail» 2 ;
Lewis Woolman 1 ; Jeremiah Bsrrell I ;
Ila.ih Hulb 1 ; Ellis M'Dowell 50 ; Wm.
Tenant 5 ; Jeffe Roberts 1 50 ; From the
inhabitants of Dormegal townlhip, Laticaf
ter couaty, by Paul
of wheat, and 1 do. rye flour ; From Man
heim township, (additional) Lancaster coun
ty, by the bands of Paul Zautzinger, 12
barrels of flour ; from Earl township, Lan
caster county, additional, 11 barrel rye
flour ; From inhabitants of Chester and Ci
tizens of Philadelphia now there, as follows,'
Wm. Norton 3 dols. 30 cts. and for Chester
Lodge 10 ; Seth Williams 5 ; JO3. RufTel
20 ; Mary Norris 5 ; Jos. Afhbrid'ge 5 ;
, I face Fitzrandolph 5 ; Abraham Dicks 2 ;
John Scully 1 ; cash ( ; Edward Engle I ;
; Peter Stimble 1 ; capt. M'Girmis 5 ; Wm.
Budden 5 ; John Odenheimer jurt. 2 ; Ra
per Ho&ins 20 ; C»fh 2 ; Cash 2c ; M.
Harris J ; Ws Anderfon 5 ; Jonas Sharp'es
2 ; capt. Shottin 1 • David Bevan J ; Wil
! liam Kerlin 5 ; William Whiteaker 5 ; Ca
' leb Burkhall 1 ; E. Pearfon 1 10 ; N. Luf
-1 borough 3 ; Peter- Howard I ; Cash I ;
Z. Graham 4f 40 ; John Moulder 3 ; James
Bernard 3 ; John Caldwell I ; Edward
1 Tilghman 50 Leiper 25 ; Pierce
Crofby 4 ; Jon. Bonfall 1 10 ; Peter E
vans 2 20. f
( EDWARD GA'RRIGUES, Sec'ry.
A'N ACT
OF THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT,
For carrying into execution the Treatyf Amity,
Commerce and Navigation, concluded
let ween his Majejly arid the
United States of America.
Continued from Saturday's G aiette.
, VI. And be it further ena£ted, That any
tobatco,, being tbe growth or prpdu&ion of
any of the territories of the said United
States of America j may be imported in
British or American ships, owned and navi
gated as herein-befbre required, ■ upon pay
ment of the fame.duties of customs and ex
cise as tobacco imported by British
from any British colony or plantation in A
merica, is or may hereafter be fubjedt to ;
-and that any fnuff, being the produftion and
manufa&ure of any of the said territories,
may be imported in manner beforer»entioned
upon payment of such duties of eultom and
cxcife as fnuff, being the produ&ion or ma-
Europe, imported .from Eu
rope, is or hereafter majr be subjeCt to, and
may be warehoused andagain exported; such
tobacco and fnuff to be subjeCt refpedtively
nevcrtheleft to all and Angular the regula
tions, reftriclions, penalties and forfeitures
relating to the importation and exportation
thereof, or in any other refped relating
thereto, of an aft made and passed in the
29th year of the reign of his present majesty,
intituled, " an a£t for-repealing the duties on
tobacco and fnuff, and for granting new du
ties in lieu thereof j" and another aft passed
in the 13th year of his present majesty, in
tituled, " an aft to explain and timead an
aft made in the last feflion of parliament, in
tituled, " an aft for repealing the duties on
tobacco and fnuff, and for granting'new du
ties* in lieu thereofor of any other aft
since made relating thereto, fubjeft also,
when imported in American ships, to the
countervailing duties imposed by this aft :
Provided always, that such tobacco fhallbe
accompanied with a manifeft, as by law re
quired.
VII. And be. it further enafted, That
any rice, being the growth or production of
any of the territories of the United States
of America, which shall be imported direft
ly from thence into any of the ports of
Great-Britain, in manner before-mentioned,
may, upon the importer paying down in
ready money, the duty of eight pence the
hundred weight, being part of the duties
now payable on the importation of rice, be
landed and warehoused, except as herein
after provided, under the joint locks of his
majesty and the importer, in such warehouses
as shall be approved of for that purpose by
the commiflioners of his majesty's customs,
or any four or more of them, in thst part of
Great-Britain called England, or any three
or more of tkem in that part of Great-Bri
tain called Scotland, or by the collector and
comptroller of his majesty's customs of the
refpeftive ports into which such rice shall be
imported, upon the importer's own bond
for payment of the remainder of the duties
due and payable for such rice, within 18
months, according to the net weight and
quantity of such rice at the time it shall be
so landed : Provided always, that upon the
impcetation of any such rice into the ports
of London, Bristol, Portsmouth, Cowes,
Liverpool, Lancaster, Falmoilth, Poole,
Whitehaven, Hull, Greenock and Port
Glafgftw, or either of them, in the manner
herein-before expressed, the importer shall
beat liberty land the fa.ve,
without payment ofanyduty whatever, upon
condition.that fucb rice fliall be warehoused
under the joint locks of his majesty and the
importers, in such warehotife or warehouses
as shall be approved for that purpose by the
commiflioners of his majesty's customs, or
any four or more of them in that part of
Great-Britain called England, or any three
or more of them in that part of Great-Bri
tain called Scotland, or by the colleftor and
comptroller of his majesty's customs of the
refpeftive ports where such rice (hall be im
ported ; and that every expense attending
such warehousing shall be borne by the said
importers ; and that such importer or im
porters, or his or their known fervanr, shall
frem time to time, at all seasonable hours,
as cceafion may require, have free access
to such warehouses, in the presence of some
proper officer of lE* customs, for the pur
pose of (ltrcening and (hifting the rice, to
prevent it receiving damage ; and that if an-/
rice, which (hall be so imported from the
territories c f t ] )e f a ;j United States into any
of the parts ahove-mentioiied refpe,ftively,
and warehoused las aforefaid, (hull be taken
out of the wherein the fame Hull
be secured under the joint locks of his ma
jesty and the importers as aforefaid, for some
tOHfumptign, the full duties due and payable
by law, upon the importation of such rice
into this kingdom for home confutnption,
and also when imported in American (hips,
the countervailing duty imposed by this
aft (hallj previously to its being taken out
of such warehouses, be paid ta the collector
of his majefty'9 euftoms at the port where
such rice (hall bd so warehoused, but
that such inipqrter, if he intends to ex
port such nee, (hall have liberty to export
' the farae from such warehouses refpeftively,
under the fame regulations under which
such rice might be exported by law imme
diately before the pafiing of this aft, with
out payment of any duty whatever : Pro
vided, that the exportation of any filch
net, hereafter to be warehoused under the
authority- of this aft, be made within the
said of 18 months; but if not ex
ported within that period, that the full du
ties payable bylaw, and alCo when import
ed in American (hips, the countervailing
duty imposed by this aft (hall be paid for,
the fame, and not be afterwards drawn
back ; and that if any rice, which shall
have been imported into any port of this
kingdom, not berein-before fpeeially named,
and (hall have been warehoused upon the
importer's boyd, in.manner aforefaid, (hall,
within the time herein before-mentioned, be
taken out of the warehouse whereih it shall
be so secured, to be exported direftly from
thence, the bond entered into for the pay
ment of the said duties thereon (hall be dif
eharged and cancelled by debenture or de
bentures, made out and paflcd in the usual
manner, for the quantity or quantities of
; rice duly exported ; and if any rice imported
intn any port of this kingdom, not hcrein
hefure tpccially named, and warehoused in
manner aforefaid, (hall be taken out of any
such warehouse for home confiimption, the
remainder of the duties due and payable by
law, and also when imported in American
fliips, the countervailing duty by this aft
imposed, (hall, previoully to its being taken
out of such warehouse, be paid to the col
leftor of his majeftyV euftoms at the port
where such rice (hall be so warehoused :
Provided,fthat if any rice warehoused unddr
/the authority of this aft (hall remain in such
warehouse beyond the period of 18 months,
upon which the full duties due and payable
by law (hall not have been paid, then in such'
cafe the fame (hall and tnay be fold for the
duties, in like manner and under the fame
rules, regulations arid reftriftions, as any
other goods are now direfted by law to be
the duties t and the produce applied
in like manner as is direfted by an aft paflcd
in the 12th year of the reign of her late ma
jesty queen Anne, intituled, " an aft for
encouraging the tobacco trade."
VIII. Provided always, and be it fur-ther
enafted, That nothingJierein contained (hall
be construed to prevent Jhe importation of
rice and other articles, without payment of
any duty whatever, by virtue of an aft, pair
ed in the present feflion of parliament, inti
tuled, "An aft to prohibit the exportation
of corn, meal, flour, and potatoes, and to
permit the importation of corn and other ar
ticles of provilion, for a limited time, in any
(hips whatever, without payment of duty,"
and in the manner in the said aft mentioned,
during the continuance thereof.
IX. And be it further enafted, that all
goods, wares and merchandize so imported
from the United States of America, (hall,
upon the exportation thereof to any foreign
country, be entitled to tbe'fame drawbacks
a?-are or may 'hereafter be by law allowed
upon the exportation of goods, wares and
merchandize of the like denomination and
defcripfion, when exported to any foreign
country ; and that there (hall be allowed
and paid the fame drawbacks and bounties
on goods, and merchandize, exported
from this kingdom to the territories of the
United States, or aay of thetn, as are or
may hereafter be allowed by law upon the
exportation of goods, wares and merchan
dize of the like denomination or description,
to any ofthe islands, plantations, er colo
nies belonging to the crown of Great-Bri
tain iVAmerica.
X- And be it further enafted, That
there shall.be allowed and paid the feme
drawbacks upon the exportation of any fort
of foreign hemp or foreign iron, exported
from this.kingdom to any British colony or
plantation in America, or any of them, as
are or may hereafter be allowed by law up
on the exportation ofthe like fort of. hemp
or iron to other foreign parts-
XI. And whereas, by the said fifteenth
article of the treaty besore mentioned, the
Britilh government refe*ves to itfelf the right
of imposing such a duty as rilsy be adequate
to countervail 'the difference of duty now
payable cn the importation of European and
Asiatic goqds, when imported into the U
nited States in British or in American veflels,
be it therefore enafted by the authority "a*
forefaid, That, from Stvd-after the fifth day
of January K one thou land ftven hundred and
ninety-eight, there (hall be raised, levied,
collefted and paid, to and tor the use of his
majesty, his heirs and successors, on the im
portation into this kingdom of goods, wares,
and merchandise hereinafter-mentioned or
described, being ofthe growth, produftion,
or manufacture of any of the territories of
the United' States of America, and import
ed direftly from thence" in American (hips
or veflels, owned and navigated as by this
aft is required, the following additional du
ties of euftoms ; that is to fay, on the im
portation of iiny fnch goods, wares, and mer
chandize as aforefaid (except tobatco and
other articles, for which provision is herein
after made) an additional duty, at and after
| the rate of ten pounds per centum on the
; produce and amount of the several duties of
cufttfrts due and payable by lavy on the im
portation info this kingdom of the like goods
or merchandize, from any of the /aid Unit
ed States, in Bricifti ships or veflels ; on the
importation of any such pig iron, bar iron,
pot afli and pearl ash, in manner aforefaid,
an additional duty, at and after the rate of
ten pounds per centum on the produce and
amount of the several duties of euftoms due
arid payable by law on the importation into
this king dom of any such goods from any
British colony or plantation in America,
when not accompanied with the certificates
reqiiired by law, on the importation, in man
ner aforefaid, of any such pitch, tar, tur
pentine, rosin, mahogany, malts, yards, and
bowsprits, and manufaftured and
merchandize as aforefaid, (wood, (taves, and
tobacco excepted) an additional duty at and
after the rate of ten pounds per centum on
the produce and amount of the several du
ties of euftoms due and payable by law on
the importation of any such goods into this
kingdom from any British eolotiy or plan
tation in America ; on the importation, in
manner aforefaid, of any such manufaftured i
wood and staves, an additional duty, at and
after the rate of ten pounds per ceytuqi on
the produce and 'amount of the several du
ties ofciiftoms due and payable by law on
the importation of any such goods into this'
kingdom from any part of Europe, not with
in his majesty's dominions, in British built
(hips or veflels ; on the importation, in man
ner aforefaid, of any oil made from fifh, or
creatures living in the fca, and blubber,
whale fins, and spermaceti, being the -pro
duce of the fifheries carried on by the peo
ple of the United States, and imported di
reftly from thence into this kingdom in A
merican (hip or veflels, owned and navigated
as by this aft i» required, an additional du
ty, at and after the rate of ten' pounds pgr
ceutum on the prodaee and amount of the
several duties of euftoms due and payable by
law 011 the importation of any such goods
into thia kingdom from countries not under
the dominion of his majesty j on the impor
tation, in manner aforefaid, of any such to
bacco so imported, an additional duty of
euftoms, at and after the rate of one (hilling,
and sixpence for every hundred pounds
weight of such tobacco.
XII. Provided always, nothing in
this aft contained shall extend, or be con
strued to extend, to charge or impose the
duty of ten pounds per centum by this aft
imposed on certain Aoods and merchandize
imported into this kingdom from the said
United States, in American (hips, 011 the
produce or amount of the refpedtive duties
of five pounds per centum, and of ten pounds
per centum, granted to his Majesty, by an
aft made in the present feflion of parliament,
entituled, " An aft for granting to' his Ma
jesty certain duties of euftoms, on goods,
warts, and merchandize, imported into, ex
ported front, or brought and carried
wife within Great-Britain, except wine, and
except coals when brought or carried coast
wise ; and tor applying the money to arise
by virtue of an aft, pasTed in the last feflion
of parliament, intituled, ' an aft for teduc
tion of thejdrawbacks and bounties now al
lowed on the exportation of sugar, towards
defraying the litcreafed charge occasioned by
any loan granted, or ltock created, by an
aft or afts pafled in the last feflion of par-'
liament."
XIII. Provided always, That if any
goods or merchandize so imported from the
United States of America (hall be permit
ted, by virtue of any aft or afts of parlia
ment-rr force at the time t>f such importa
tion, to be secured in ware-houses, without
the payment ot the duties due on tlie impor
tation thereof, then and in such cafe the ad
ditional duties of euftoms, by this aft im
posed, (hall not be payable utilefs and until
such goods fuall be taken out of filch ware
house foV the purpose of being used or con
fumt din this kingdom. , -
XIV. Provided always, That nothing in
this aft contained (hall extend, or be constru
ed to extend, to repeal or >any wife alter
the duties of package, fcavage, balliage,
or portage, or any other duties payable to
the mayor and commonalty and citizens'of
the city of London, or to the loid mayor
of the said city for the time being, or to
any other city or town corporate within
the kingdom of Great Britain, or to repeal
Or any wife alter any'fpccial privilege or
exemption to which any person or per Tons,
bodies politic or corporate, is or are now
entitled by law, but the fame shall be conti
nued as heretofore.
XV. And be it further enafted, That
such of the duties/of euftoms and excise,
by this aft imposed, as (hall arise in that
part of Great Britain called England, (hall
be under the management of th# refpeftive
commissioners of the euftoms ajid excise in
England for the time being, and such there
of a3 (hall arise in that part of Great Bri
tain called Scotland, (hall be under the ma
nagement of the refpeftive commiflioner3 of
the euftoms and excise in Scotland for the
time being.
XVI. Ancl be it further enafted by the
aurhority afprefaid, That the duties of euf
toms and excise, and the drawbacks of the
duties of euftoms and excise upon, for or
in refpeft of the several goods, wares or
merchandize by this aft imposed and allow
ed, (hall and may he refpeftively managed,
.ascertained, railed, levied, collefted, an
swered, paid, recovered and allowed, in
such and the like manner,' and in or by any
or either of the means, ways, or methods,
by which the former duties of" CTTttolnj and
excise, and drawbacks of duties of euftoms
and excise, upon goods, wares, or merchan
dize in general, and also by any or either
of the special means, ways or methods re
fpeftively, by which the former duties of
euftoms and excift, and drawbacks of du
tits of euftoms and excise, upon goods,
wares, or merchandize, of the fame forts
or kinds refpeftively, were or might he ma
naged, alcertained, levied, raised, collefted,
anfwfired, paid, recovered and allowed, and
the goods, wares, or merchandize, so by
this aft refpeftively made.liable to the pay
meet of, or chargeable with duties of cuf
toml and excise, or so entitled to drawback
of duties of customs and eXcise, upon the
importation thereof into, or exportation
thereof from Great Britain, or on any other
account whatever, (hall be, and the fame
are hereby made fubjeft and liable to all
and every the conditions, regulation, rules,
reftriftions, arid forfeitures, to which goods,
wares, or merchandise in general, aad also
all aud every the special conditions, rules,
reftrittions, regulations, and forfeitures re
fpeftively, to which the like goods, wares,
or merchandise refpeftively were fubjeft
and liable by any a|t or afts of parliament
ii*. force on and immediately before the pas
sing of this aft refpefting the revenues of
customs aad excise, except where any alter
ation is expressly made by this aft ; and all
and every pain, penalty, fine or forfeiture,
of any nature or kind whatever,- for any
offence whatever, committed against or in
any breach of any aft or afts of parliament,
in force on and immediately before the pat
fmg ot this aft, made for securing the reve
nue of customs and excise, or for the regu
lation or improvement thereof, and the fe
verai clauses, powers and therein
contained (unless where expressly altered by
this aft) (hall and are; hereby direfted and
declared to extend to, and (hall be respec
tively applied, praftifed and put in execu
tion, for and in refpeft of the several duties
of customs and excise, and drawbacks of
duties of customs and excise, hereby charg
ed and allowed, in as full and anjple manner,
to all iutents and purposes whatever, as if
all and every the said afts, clauses, provisi
ons, powers, directions, fines, pains, pen
alties or forfeitures, were particularly re
peated and re--enafted in the body of thia
aft- [7~o be continued.]
Late Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, September 13.
The persons arrested on Monday morn
ing the 4th of September are the two Di
rectors, Carnot and Bartbelemy ; between
60 and 70 of the members of the two Coun
cils ; and the authors and printers of two
and thirty periodical publications,which had
exposed the conduct of the Direftory as un
eonftitutional.
The accusation preferredagainft thofeper
fons is a conspiracy to restore royalty ; and
the documents on which the charge is found
ed are a variety of papers said to be found
in the Portefeuille of M. d'Entraignes.
On the authenticity of tbefe papeis it is not
for Us to attempt to comment.
The m«ft arbitrary and unconfiitutiona!
measures have been the immediate result of
this violent explosion. The Councils, at
the instigation of the Direftory, WITH- 1
OUT ANY TRIAL, have pronounced a
sentence of banishment on the accuied de
puties. And the Triumvirate make a merit
of not putting them, to death, as if it would
not be neceflary to produce some proof a
gainst them on their trials ; and consequent
ly to submit their documents to the investi
gation of ceunfel.
The fame councils have annulled all the
laws which repealed several of the atrocious
decrees parted during the reign of Robes
pierre, and evidently sepugnant to the prin
ciples upon whichtheconftitution is profeffed
to be founded. They have removed even the
feeble barriers which that eonftitution had
interposed to the erection of arbitrary pow
er on the part of the Direftory. They have
authorifijd them to ciMivhpt trapps tlxyplcafe
to Paris, and to take inch means qs to them
(hall seem expedient for the fafety of the
country. In (liort, they have bnfely sur
rendered their own rights and those of their
constituents ; fanftioned a virtual annihila
tion of the eonftitution, and the eltabli(h
ment of an abfoiute or military Govern
ment.
All tilt Editors and -printers of the pro
foribed journals been committed to
prison, preparatory to their trial, and the
press :s placed under the fuperintendanee of
the Police.' Therefore, all the public, in'
telligence from Paris hereafter will come
through the partial channel of the Directo
rial pretTes.
A small Paris paper of the 18th inft. is
said to be received which however
contains no material news. It.is mentioned
that Jouidan had moved and carried the ap
pointment of a new committee, rs the late
military committee are for transportation.
Several ojher alterations have ensued. The
members appointed to the new military
committee are —Savory, Talot, Portes,
Martiu, EchaiTeriaux, Ludot and Jourdan.
Septeirsber 14.
A private letter from Paris, dated the
7th inft. we yesterday received from a very
intelligent correspondent. After a ctxrfory
view of affairs, which merely confirms the
statements already made in the various pa
pers, the writer assures us, " that the Di
reftory had some hours before dispatched a
special meflenger to Lisle, ordering the
commifiioner or plenipotentiary 0:1 the part
of France to demand from Lord Malmcf
bury a categorical answer to the lust propo
sition. Should his lordfliip hrfitate to com
ply with the request, or (hould his answer
be hostile to the views of the Direftory, ?n
intimation was to be given him, that hia
speedy departure from France would be satis»
faftory."
This letter also mentions, that " Xloriait
had been invited to Paris by the Direftory ;
and that on the f>th inft. he was arrested at
St. Denni'3 on his route to the capital.
Moreau, one of the greatcft of mo
dern times, and the bo fori} friend of Pichc.
gin, was, when at the head of his army,
viewed by the Direftory with much jealoui'y
and fear. They knew that his political f«n
timents corresponded mth those of Piche
gru ; and they dreaded his great popularity
among the fwldiers—thofe soldiers who had
refufed to address the Direftory against tlie
Councils.
" To excite murmurs and difcorrtenti ns,
to reijder the Councils unpopular, and thePtiation of Moi-ftft-i exceedingly difagr*e
a!i!e, the Dife&ory refufed for months to
, pay the arrears of the troops. To excul
pate them on the occnfion, message after
message wa6 sent to the Councils, defcrihing
the very alarming'ftate of the finances
These avid other aieafures of a similar na
ture produced the desired jffedt : and the
I riumviratfe, by an audacious violation of
the conftitutiort, arrested all those who were
supposed hoilile to their intereffi. Moreau
and,many others have thus fallen vi&ims to
their vengeance ; and France is now under
a military despotism."
On Monday there commenced a fpeculati
' on on the flock Exchange, which went to'
tbe purchase of above half a million of a
stock for one part, and this obviously in the
view of a speedy peace.
Monday the Tribune and Success frigates
with the convoy so.- Halifax, &e. failed from
Cowes.
Rear Admiral Ntlfon, in consequence of
the lo£s<of his arm, is to retire from aftual
ferviec. He will be placed on the superan
nuated lift of rear-admirals, with an allow
ance of 17s. 6d. per day ; besides which,
it is supposed, a peiifion will be granted him
for his paftfervices.
Lieut. Knight, late of the Diamond,
with Messrs. Carrol, Harvev, and Becroft,
the latter of whom had bceu badly wound
ed, and all the men taken with Sir Sidney
Smith at Havre, have been exchanged.
LIVERPOOL, September ii«
Capt. Pi nee, arrived here yesterday from
Nantz, left there captains Wright, Sellars,
Crow, and M'Callen, of thi; port.
At his capture, orders were ifftied from
the Minister of Marine, that all English
prisoners were to be detained ; and that the
next ship that was biought info Nantz, the
pafiengers, captain and crew would be put
into prison, and allowed nothing but bread
and water, in consequence of their receiv
ing ill treatment in England.
All the English captainsthere attest, that
. they might have obtained a passport long
since, hut owing to the conduft of a matter
of a vessel of this port, Who the cpmmiffa
ry informed, had given his word and honor
to feVid over another in his room, which he
has omited.
There were at Nantz two frigates, which
by this titpe, are ready for fea—Le Lion
and Le Creole, both of the fame force,
guns each. It was reported that they were
deftincd for the East-Indies.
DRESDEN, August 12.
On Tuesday last his Swedish Majesty ar
rived here in the ftri&eftincog from Leipfic.
This Pri*ce is very plainly dressed, that he
may be less noticed, and approaches citizens
of every class, without constraint. He
lately said, that Kipgs can only fee tfie
truth when masked. When on Friday last,
he was in the garden of Mr. Richter, he re
tired the moment he found that he was
known.
PARIS, September 4.
The ATint/ler of War, to the Armies, and to
1 the Military Divisions.
" The dark veil which covered the repub
lic is at last removed. Let your courag*
be reanimated, brave soldiers ! The genius
of liberty still hovers over' France, and you
havt not vainly shed your blood in thecauf*
of freedom. The struggle between the i>-
dious abettors of royalty and the faithful
friends of-the republic ha» ceased. War
riors of every rank ! you need no longer fe3r
that your/(tiers will be tarnished by those
base men who never shared your dangers,
and who, insensible to the glory which your
triumphs have refle&ed on your country,
would make® facrifice of your innumerable
▼iftories to the throne. Men of courage
at last accepted the challeuge of royalty.—
They lifted up its ganntlet, and instantly the
hideous fpe&re disappeared. Soldiers of li
berty ! remain calm in the midlt of the
storm. Listen to the voice of your chiefs,
and of the government which watches for
' you • preserve yourselves in that imposing
attitude which (hikes terror into your ene
mies both abroad and at home. You will
speedily enjoy the fruits of your triumphs,
of your facrifices, and your devotion. To
fupp'y those wants which a malevolent fac
tion has so long made you #udure, is the
firft duty of our earnest solicitudes : there
public owes to you its glory, and it will en
deaTOur to acquit the debt. Its happiness
and yours are ever infepar^ble.
(Signed) SCHERER, Minift. at War.
The minijler of the interior to the central ad
vunijlrations of the departments, and to the
commifftincrs of the Executive DireSory in
those adminijlrations.
" Citizens,
" The departments have been too often
deceived with regard to what passes in Pa
ris. The authentic documents annexed to
this letter will make known to you the
truth. The republic has triumphed over
the royalists conspirators. The constitu
tion of the third year has this day cfcaped
from t-he rage of those who wished to des
troy it. If any suggestions are made against
these faffs, you have it in your power to es
tablish them. Take the proper means of
enlightening the people of your depart
ments, by publishing all the papers I have
sent you. The partizans of the throne may )
attempt to avenge themselves on the repub
licans. You ought to declare, that all the
constituted authorities, civil and military,
remain responsible for all assassinations or at
tempts made to disturb the public peace.
Should the agents of a counter-revolution
establish a falfe legislature out of Paris, or
remain in the legislative' body, you are re- :
quired to oppose them with all your power, I
under the pain of being declared in a state
of rebellion. Remember that you arc the
guarantees of the tranquillity of your de
partments. The Executive Direftory re
lies on your zeal. Give me immediate ass- 1
urance of*your diligence and efforts in pre- |
serving order and peace. Five la Republic ! .
(Signed) " Francois-de Ncufchateau. ;
" Minister of the Interior." '
A
.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, Nov. 7.
The marquis de Bouills .((aid to be
arretted in France with Dumourier) is
in England. It is his ion the count who
is, on the continent.
In the ljte proscription of the deputies
bv the legislative body of France, their
fate appears to have depended generally.
|on the opinion of a Angle member. As
' the names were read over in rotation in
the councils, it was supported or pro
scribed, on the declaration of any indi
vidual. It must be imperious necessity,
indeed, that can warrant so flagrant a
| violation of every principle of justice.
Barbe Marbois. We mistook yes
terday in naming him among the new
party. In the proceedings of the coun
cil of elders, of which he was a member,
we noticed the name of Marbgt, which
for the moment we mistook for him.
He is, we regret to find, among the
profcribcd.
Pastoret, who not long since pre
sented a lengthy report on the 'relations'
between France and the United States/,
favorable to us, is also among the pro
scribed. In short, the change- that has
taken place does not add to pur former
hopes of a speedy accommpdation of dif
ferences. While France continues fub
jeftto those repeated revolutions, in men
and things, stability, or even rcftitu le
of conduft, is sot, from past events, to
be loolced for by any f.cutral nation.
We this day continui tbe regular de
tail of the late revolution in France—
We closed yesterday with the proclama
tion of the directory on the '4th of Sep
tember ; and the articles foHowing now
are in regular fucceflion ; and which
will be continued till the whole shall be
completed. . *
As we mentioned before, Vhe deve
lopement of the cofifpiracy is grounded
on a disclosure of a variety of papers, the
detail of wjiich is extremely lengthy. To
have a clear view of them, however, it
is absolutely neceflary to preserve a ftri£t
connexion of them as detailed from
French papers.
In addition to this connected f>lan,<
however—we shall give separate articles
of a later date. Our Paris dates of 12,
13, and September, are three days
later than any others which have been
published.
The address of the Legislative Body
to the armies and 'departments gives
nearly similar information to whst was
contained in the address to the citizens
of Paris published yesterday, in that
to the French people, which we give this
day.
The latest London papers in our pof
feflion of the 16th and 18th of Septem
ber, give many of the papers alluded to
in the above different addrefles. These
papers were seized at Venice. The fol
lowing form a part.
PARIS, September 12.
Papers alluded to in the address of the coun
cils to the departments and the armies.
Extraft of the papers relative to the con
fpiraey of Duvern, or Dunant, Brottier,
and VJleurnoy.
(Copy, No. 5.)
Verona, Feb. 2J, 1796. —" lam very
glad, gentlemen, that circumstances enable
you to exert your zeal more effectually in
:ny service, and afford me an opportunity of
ftiewing the confidence 1 place in you. Mr.
D'Antriaguts divides it with you ; it is my
intention that he should be the channel of
your correspondence with me. He will
preserve the originals, and you may reft per
feftly fatisfied as to t*he use I shall make of
your correspondence.
M. L'Abbe de Brottier and the Cheva
lier Duverne de Prefle.
(Signed) Louis and Brottikr.
(Paper, No. 6.)
Copy in Cyphers.
Foreign affairs, M. Henin, formerly firft
commissary—For the interior, leave* Bene
zich : The marine, M. de Fleurieu : Jus
tice, Simeon or Baraffeux A The finances,
M. Berignot de Grange, Florentin-'ftreet,
opposite the hotel of Infantado : One Barbe
Marbois, a man of talents, who was art in
tendant at St. Domingo. He has the'eha
radter of an honest man, for the committee
of inftruftion. For the bridges ind high
ways, Mr. de la Villiere. Subsistence, M.
Vauvilh'erg, Comnn'ffary-General of pri
sons, M. de Sotirdas, Police, leave. Cochon.
Pertalis will be appointed to it, if Bar
reffeux is Minister of Justice.
(No. 6, marked B.)
Cochon having voted for the death of the
king, will not be agreeable to the royalists,
and will not obtain their confidence.
Signed De la Villeurnoy, and marked by
the commissary of the police of Pont Ncuf.
(No. 8.)
BlaCkenburgh, Nov. 24, 1796.
" The king has learned, with the great
est fatisfa&ion, that his agents at Paris are
exerting themfelvcs with the utmost vigour,
to reconcile to him the members of the two
councils and the prefect administration, that
they hare never loft fight of the grand point
.to which all their intcrefts csght tiitepd,
and that they flatter th-jmfilves that they
./hall be able entirely to gain nvel- those wliofe
sentiments tliey have transmitted.
" Among ail the means to increa e the in
fluence of the party managed by ihe agents
of the' king, there are three which are the
principal.
" To remove from the adminftratinn the
regicides, their lea'ders, arid those of the Ja
cobins.
" To exert thf mfelves to it cure the new
eledVions.
" To gain and bring back as tnany as
possible of the party now known by the
name of the Ventre (the belly.)
" The mod: recent opinfbns on the present
situation of the two councils* render this
point extremely important ; and the kfng
thinks it ♦ncumbept on him to add this iii
ftru&ion to all the. former he has confirmed,
as well as those you will find at London, in
the pofTeflion of the Due d'Harcourt, in co
pies signed and approved by his Majesty.
" The king wishes you would remit him
more complete information relative to the
state of the party, the sentiments of which
you have explained, effiecially relative to the
connexion you mention iirthe. letter of the
25th May, with one of the two principal ar
mies, and also concerning the aflociation (of
ClichiJ which appears to have been lately
formed, and which you will not fail to ex
plain in your next letter.
" His Majesty continues to desire that
fueh meflengers may be sent as may be judg
ed proper to be employed in such a million."
" I approve of the contents of this instruc
tion, which the chevalier Dqxernay will
transmit to those gentlemen.
(Signed) "Louis."
CENTRAL OFFICE OF CANTON fARIS.
Paris, izth Pluviofe, sth year of the
republic,, one and indivisible.
" We, the adminiilrators of the central
office, have caused to appear beforo us a
person confined in the Chambre du Depot,
and have interrogated hiui as follow :
Ques. State v your name, christian name,
age, country, profeffion, and place of resi
dence. ,
Ans. Andrew Charles Brottier, mathe
matician, ex-priest, forty fix years of age, of
the department of Neivre, lives in Paris, E
galite street, 4th divifton of Luxemberg.
Do you know the different persons
mentioned in the paper, purporting to be
the names of the persons to be employed as
miniftersin the new order of things which
you wished to bring about.
A. I know th# paper y*u hare shown
pie. It was read in my presence at citizen
Main's. The name of Dumas, deputy of
the council of eldtrs, which was at the head
of the lift, was tern off by the desire of citi
zen Malo.
(A true copy.) (Signed) Limodin.
(A true copy.) (Signed) Cochran.
Minister of General Police."
(To be continued.)
PARIS, Sept. u.
General Btrthier is arrived in this city. He
is'reported to be the bearer of a treaty of peace
concluded with' the Emperor.
The military pofti ontht bridges, and in the
publi'-J'rjßare have been removed.
The deputies condemned to traufportation,
including Barthc!eniy,were sent offon the night
of the 9th inft. They were escorted by some
t/oop« under general Dutertre, who is empow.
ered to II on the armed force wherever he may
deem it necelfary. They have taken the route
to OHeans, and are 'to be emharkedfor Roche
foit- It it faid that they arenot to be sent
to Madagascar, but td».i settlement in South-
America, which has been cedtd to us by the late
treaty with Portugal.
Sr.me of the dreamers of news fay, that Car
not hat been killed.hy his colleagues in the place
of their fittings. Iffo, an iimflWe genius mnfl
have taken away the body of the de'ceafcd, for
every inquiry being made, not evcu a trace of
it is to be found !
September 13.
Although the last Law en the Press submits
for a year the periodical publications to the in
fpeftion of the police, the legiflstive body has
no other intentions than that of letting bounds
to the lirentioufnefs of the press. The legisla
tive body neither has derogated, nor intends to
derogate Sy this aw of regulation, from the de
claration of rights, annexed to theCcnftitution,
and which secures by a special article to every
citizen the right of publifliing his thoughts
Were it otherwise, we mult agree that a re
volutionary government Supercedes a Constitu
tional order, uiidkii not the cafe. —(Annales
Folitiques.)
Gilbert Pefmollerss was last night arretted
in the environs of Neuilly. He is now in the
Temple - —(La Sentinelle.)
Ltgarde, the general of brigade who ref'ifed
to obey the orders of the Diredlory for his go
ing to Italy, is superseded from his funfliont.
September 14.
A report has been spread for a few days part,
that the deputies, to the number of 171, had
published a protest against the events of the 4th
September. Hitherto we have refufedto insert
intelligence of this importance, because we
thought that the nature of our fun<£lions impos
ed on us the duty of not giving credit to a
measure whichcommitted the puhlictranquility.
Le Journal desLoixand des Faits,of the nth
S;-pt. assures us in the molt positive manner,
that this protTlf, signed by 172 names, is in ex
istence. In spite, however, of thia declaration,
we have Strong reasons for doubting themithen
ticity of this intelligence, and our opinion is
founded on these circumstances :
The 4th of September a great number of de
puties met. those of the Council of Elders at La
fond Ladebat, and those of the council oS Five
Hundred at Andre de la Lqfere. As Lafond
and Andre both of them relide in the street of
Neuve deL'.ixembtirgh, the two meetings were
thus at each other's doors. The aSTembly at
Andre's cenfiHed of members, and Paftoret
prefuled.
An address for a protest to the French peo
ple was proposed and unanimoully adopied.
All the members present had signed it, when a
detachment of cavalry appeared, commissioned
to furroand the houte -of Lalond I.adebat.who
was taken from his house as well as all the
members of the Canncil of Elders, present lit
the meeting. Tiiis intelligence led to the be
lief that the polie<, informed of the meeting of
the members of the council offive hundrerijvas
about to take the lame measures with refpedl to
them.—The meeting was hov ever diflhlved,
without any refolutirn being taken.— (AnnaSes
Polititjues.j
Ltgalln s, a meml er of the council of five
i hundred, in a iittihj of tTi* 8 h, on a
I motion for the order of rt. i day, that the da,v of
I the 4th September, was a complete Kevr Intion;
| hi t for tunately, Salicetti, in t'ie council of five
j 1 undr;d ; and Uaurlin in the Elders, have vitfo
jriouflv defirovvd this aflcrtiou, by maintaining
; tint t'ie 4th Sei>temW, infSea-l of being a In
volution, had been the means of preventing a
counter revolution. We may fee that every
thing in this world de;-en-s on a good defirii
tien —(GazetteTVitiqiie.)
BALTIMORE, November 4.
Last evening arrived brig Betsy, capt.
Van Beurin, from Belfaft, which place fbe
left on the 6th September. By this arrival
we are favored with Dublin and Belfaft pa
pers to the 4th Sept. and London papers to
the 31ft August, one day later than any
heretofore received ori this continent :
the following appears to be the most mate
rial— More copious extrafts in cur next.
/
• Pence Contradicted ! !
LONDON, August 30.
We yesterday translated literally the arti
cles relative to a pretended peace between
prance and England, contained in the Pa
ris Gazettes, which we received by express.
The late hour, however, at which these pa
pers came to our hands, prevented us then
from making any observations on the pro
bability of the intelligence that they an
nounced : but we are forrv to be now un
der the necessity of stating that if is totally
void of foundation. We have, indeed, every
reason to believe, that these accounts have
been fabricated at Paris for the lame pur
pose that the L'Eclair was last year forged
in London, namely, that of having an ef
fc& ou the funds. The scheme, however,
of the unprincipled stock jobbers who were
the authors of this falsehood, appears to
completely failed ; the iropref
fion did not take place; for the flocks,
which opened at 53 for time, rose only to
53 1-2, and soon fell back to 53.
' August 31.
Letters from Dover state, that a person
concerned in the fabrication ef the falfe in
telligence inserted in the Paris gazette, rela
tive to peace between this country and
France, for the purpose of its being copied
into English papers, is now in cwftudy at
Calais.
From a Paris-paper of slugujl 28.
" The joy occasioned by the news of the
. Signing of preliminaries of peace with Eng
j laud, was only the joy of a moment. The
' very persons who had been so eager to con-
I firm the intelligence, almoil at the fame in
! ftant announced that the proposals made by
lord MalmSbury, and acceded to by the
French commiflioners, were not agreed to
by the direftory. The majority of its mem
bers persist 111 refufing the Cape of Good
■ Hope to the English, and are determined to
retain the port of Oftend, such as it was giv
en up to us by the Emperor."
CHARLESTON, C«. *3.
. Paflengsrj in ihe Jbip Adventure from Bqfton,
—MilTej de GraSle, Mrs. Reid, Mrs. M'Oou
gal, Mr. Hargreaves, Mr. Fletcher, and Mr.
Park.
GLORIOUS NEWS.
The prite le Grouper, which and
armed in this port, and immediately proceeded
to search and capture American veffsls ok the
coast, has arrived at the Havannsh. All the of
: ficers and the crew have been afrefted and put
' in confinement, 011 a charge of piracy. • It is
well lyiown that the Grouper was originally a
1 Frer.rh privateer ; having remained in this port
j tiU her.corniniflioti was out of date, She wa<
j fold and put-chal't-d by men who cloaked their
own propriotorihip by other names. She was
difpatclied frjm bence to A ugullinc, where She
did notarrive until after firing at and examining
Several Americans ; at Augustine Ihe was char
i ti red by government to take Spanish convidU
j to the H ivannah, and on her paSTage captu
, several velTels, for which her ctew have been
finee ai relied as piratet., ihe vefiel having never
obtained a comniiiTion.
An officer of the Oroupor has declared that
she is owned or.e half by a merchant in this
city, who paid the whole of the purchase mo
rev, and one half, by a Span ; ard in Augultirtfc.
Defchamps and co. were only the underlings i
the whole budget will fuon be opened.
A moll barbarous and Shocking Murder was
committed yeflerday afternoon, by I'rtcr Bennoit,
who had the care of Fort Mechanic. A number
of children and youths, as it too commonly a prac
tice, were amusing themselves on the rampar's,
Sunday afternoon ; among the number was \4af
ter Peter Smith, a boy of 14 or 15 years, second
son of Peter Smith, efq_. In tht course of their
gambols this youth took hold of the flagflaff rope,
which hoisted and lowered the colours, when an
altercation ensue.'l, and Bennoit, with the coolness
and deliberation of a savage, took up a muflcet and
shot him. The youth expired inflantly, and with
out uttteriug a word ; a jury of has been
held upon the body, and Bennoit is secured in gaol.
Clocks and Watches,
Of every description, opening for Sale, by
, EPHRAIM CLARK, N
At his i\eiv Shop, Corner of
MARKET and FRONT STREETS.
ALSO
An extensive and general assortment of
Tools, Files, and Materials.
—rCONSISTING OF
Clock Movements and Clock Dials, eight day
and thirty hours cast brass, forged work and Piu
ions, Bells and Hands, Cat Gut, ft'rew and draw
Plates, Turkey Stones, Pumice, Emvry and Rot
ten Stone, Springs and Gidfies, Chains Keys, Seals
&c &c. Spring and (landing Clocks*
O&. 17. eotf
Wharton and Lewis,
have for sale,
At their Store and Insurance Ofßce for (hipping,
No. 115, South Front Sheet,
Jamaica kum, 4th proof, "J entitled to
Alicant Brandy, ift & zi proof j drawback.
Madeira Wine, and
A few hogsheads of Juniper Berries.
Oitoher ijt. cot!
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, .South Front Street,
H A V F FOR SALE,
ioe Hoglheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
50 Pipe? of Bonrciranx Rrandy,
10 I'ipes of oIJ Pott Wine-
Oil. 1?. tawtf
Oil. 1?
' '• -V ' Tfi
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY FVEXING, XG! r EMttER 8.
The President of the United
States will arrive in tow<i on Friday
next.
Monday next, agreeably to law, the
Senate and Hoiife of Representatives of the
United States are to meet in this city.
VOLUNTEER GREENS.
I HE Gentlemen of the Troop are re-,
quelled to meet at Barnabas M'Shane's, otl
Thursday evening, the, 9th iivftant, at 7
o'clock, on paiticularbufinefs.
JOHN MORRELL, Captain.
The Members of the Second Troop of
Horse,
ARE reqnefted to hold themselves in rea
dinefr, to escort the President of the United
States, 011 his return to the Seat of Gov
ernment, which" will be in a few days.
The earliest notice will 'be given of the
time. The place of parade will be at the
Hotel, between Arch and Race streets, in
Tenth street.
ABRAHAM SINGER, Captain
THE CITY CAVALRY ,
\ will parade on Friday morning next, the
j 10th instant, precisely at nineVclock, at
J the Hotel in Tenth, between Arch and
j Race-ft-reets, for the prrpofe of escorting
1 the Prefideh'.t of the United States on his
return to the feat of government*
Tbe last article of the French rurjr -
hi these words— ' the Frcn.h people c-nfi n the
present con!!itut : on to thz./Mity cis the le ;ifl tivs
bo<y, of the -xccutiv dire&pty, the ad niniflra
tors aid judges; to the vijrija re of 'he heails of'
families ; to the whm and the Incth;rs ; to the af
frftion of the you-ig citi 'ens ; to th- couraye of
all Frenchmen-" At to the r'ir.aorv, they vio
late the conftituticn when t! ey please ; but the
wives will doubt!efs.hecp the conditdtio» as well a»
they do tbeir bujbands. Twenty 'houfand divorces
ohly in about three years in Paris! Such wives and
mothers mull be excellent depositories ol the con
stitution, which they are direfled to take into their
(M-r.Hap.J~
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED, V AYS*
Schr- Little Fanny. Cox, St* Thomas 20
Tu,* Frienik, Crawly, Jamaica 21
CLEARED.
Brig Eliza, Vaughan, Malaga,
Arrived lajl evening from a cruize, the re
venue cutter General Greene, captain Ifaas
Roach.
The brig Triphena, Griffin, from Bordeaux
Schr. Rojlon, Clark, Cape Francois ; and a
Danijh Galliot, from the Streights, Art below
Capt. Cox, of the fchr. Little Fanny from
St. Thomai —left there the 15 nit. the brig
Atlantic, Dean, of IVi'mington ; fchr..
Hunt, of Philadelphia, jujl arrived ;floop
Hannah, Reynolds, do. to fail m 4 days.
New-Tork, Nov. 7 .
ARRIVED. DAYS
Ship Draper, Callins, Wat erf ord 56
The Peggy has arrived at Liverpool from
this port.
The brig Mary arrived at Arnfirdam
the Qth of Augufl.
Th: ship Rote, Capt. Hill, in I o weeks
from Amjlerdant, Jhowed a signal of distress
on the E. Banks, about 4 miles below the Nar
rows, yejlerday morning.
The Draper sptie the ship Maria, seven
days from this port. >
also The ship Lioness, from Jamaica to
London, out 6 weeks, her topsail yards 3 hours
under water, and her cargo of sugar dissol
ved.
1 _ '
FOR SALE, Br
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. 5. Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Dr .ndy, id aftdtd
proof, jult landed
bales of Bourbon cotton.of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy blaclt peppcr'in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firtt quality
High pro jf Januica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine / In pipes 9k
do. market do f qr. caflcj.
New England runt in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
! > pttmsceti candles a»d(lrain'd oil
Prime Boflon beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrel
Do, Herringindo do
Best Boston Maclurd in barrels of tbe fall
New-England tow l : »«n
A few tons of Rulfia cordage
Do father beds
Clovtr and Timothy feed in :aflrt
Long whale-bone
No t, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chests fir.l quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
N jvember 8. ' diw,'
. NOT TC~E:
Al l. perions concerned are hereby n tifiecf,
that tiie fnVfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in she Bank of the United .States—He for*
warded t!um under cover of a a'drifted to
John A'nfley,( f 1 on ic rt.by the fblp Bzcchcs, capt,
George, which leit this port in June lad for Lon
don. But that ship having been captured ok her
paflfage andfentto France, the above later and m
ciofure have faiUd in their defoliation.
Three certificates viz.
Nos. 2632?, 26326, 26327, eacß for
four (hares, dated January i ft, 1797, and
iflued in the name*>f Henry Grace, of Tot
tenhafl Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
PhilatfelfiJ ia, "November 8. 2aw 6 w
Wantedy to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSfi, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rerit will be given ; to be takes for a year, or c.%
lease for a longer terai. Inquirec£ FriMer.,
C <St. 17. fcctf
Ctf. 17.FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellent! lorfes,
vith a nrd Gears. The Horles are all J
\v)tinc. ?'ong, tvue to Ihe draught, and capab.e
of as (*rta* a wCfght as ttio.'. i" ihe coun- n
trv The V.ai!Con r.r/1 Gears are (krong, and fj
ll 7-od order. A)»p!v.to ROBERT GREEN, tior
Weft Town, Cheller countv, or to app
Thomas si/her, (1 i'
er <
>Io. SeCttnd Street, Phila 'elphia. b< ,
11 mo. 2, i-od v v. con
In the Press,
j\nd speedily will be published by William j )U j
Young, No. 52, Second, the corner of 1
Chefnut Street, Pe;
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ; i n
On the principles eflahliftied in ths elements t,;t "
r»r Med'cirir. o" th.» late celebrated P al
JO H N BRO WN, M. TX
With an attt-m'pt to correflifowie important er-
rors of that wo lr, and caf.'s i;i il'luftration, chief- r - v
lv leleifled from the records of their praiticf, at p u
the General iJbfpitil at Calcutta, lj er
Br IViiLt im Yates cf Chas. Ma-Clran. ne\
N\ hich ii fnbjoined, a Treatise on tnc a&ion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of difcafes of indirefl debility
AndadilTettnt'nn onthe fourcet of Epid-oiicand- |
Pcflilenjtialtliftafes; in wl]ichisa!temp4edtopr®ve
by a numerous of faifls, that they 11s- R t
<iri!'e from contagion, but are always produ- 1
ced\l)yrertain dates, or certain vicissitudes ot
ttie aim-sphere, by CharlSs Maclean", of aec
CslcntM' wc
Ocl. ,x. '
At the Federal Blast Furnace, Ar
In Carver—fir Slittb;g, Plaiting, and Rolling
Mills.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR fuptnorily conjtjls in being free from Co
Ihbles and honey-combed places, tvhich are com- t
monh found in rollers cajl in /and, or day 1 jjq
mouUs. Theft patent rollers are cajl tn iron
mouldi, pi-evitjujlf, heated, and uill be found to j
bt mure dUnj'e. solid and durable than any rollers | f ut
hereto fort qfird. Another important aeti*nntage j un
they, have cfer others, is, that the recks require i )i c
no turniitgf but are immedaitely fit fnr jfe, mid p e
J'roui their accuracy, run with lej's friflion, and
requireiefs nucfter to mi'.he them perform their
zvork. 7hey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plfmout!:, of Gen. N&tbanUl CqoJ
ivitij or of Mejfrs. Thatcher aid Hayward
lifflot, t,u Sept. 19- §t>t-
This Day is Published, j
Mcft. Dobfen, CarcA Campbell, Rice, and the
other Bookfellcrs,
Price One Dollar and i wenty-fivc cents,
ElegCiit'v printed on IVeve paper, and Hot
prrjfed,
By John Ihompfon,
• A COMPARATIVE VifcW OF T
The Constitutions
Of the fev r»I States with ench other, and with
thct of the United States: "exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Constitution, and
cUßing together their rnoft impertajit provisions,
under the federal heads of adminkftration ; with
Mtites andObfertfati'ons. ,
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Car otitis, ci
L L. D. and member of the Congreft of tte il
United States. el
Dedicated to th« People of th« United States. u
N. 3. A few Copt 3 printed an an inferior pa- '<
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
FcbruajTr 6 mwf f,
City CommiJJioners' Office, [
Juie 1797-
IN purfumce of an ordinance from the feleiS
in<s common councils, passed the 23d day ot
Mav lad, appointing the city ci»mm:lTionei»,
aad 'jrcfcribing th«ir duties, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, 1
That'the city is divided into five diftrifts,
each to be uoder iWe fuperintendance of one of .
thetity commifTiouers, whoisto be individually
relponfible for the cleanlintfs'of the fame, and j
are as follow. j
I>iftri<£\ No. i. From the south fide of Ce- t
dar-ftreet, to the north fide ofSpruce-ftreet.uti- ]
ithe superintendence of Nathan Boys. ,
2. From the north fid-; of Spruee-llreet, to
the noflh fide of VValnut-flreet,under the fuper
iotendence t>f Hugh Robsrtt.
' ». From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-ilreet, under the fuperintend«nce of .
Joseph Claypoole. _
4 From the north fide of Iligh-ftreet, to the
north Ad * of Mufccry street, under the super
intendence of Williami Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberrv-ttreet to
tW north fide of Vine-flreet, under ihe tuper
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecleaningof High-street to be in ccrm«on.
A Hated meeting of the city comraiffion
ers Is luld at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at s o'clock.
July 14- eo,m
Stands for Draymen, lie.
t„ purfuanee of art Ordinance from ibeScletl and
Common Councils,bearing date fx nd day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
1 City Commtjjioners, &c. Se3. the ijjtb.
THE following plases are fixed upon by the
said City Commifiwners for Standi for
" Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of I'ront-nre«, on
both fides. /
Saflafras, Ilieh, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward ot Front-street, on the north fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-Ilreat, east flde from Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley-
Front-street, from opposite to Black Ilorle al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce'iar-Ilieet, \*eU
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine South streets, east ol Front
flreet south Ode*
Dock-Hreet, betweett Walnut-ftrett and the
flag stone croffmgs, east fide, opposite Gecrge
°ri C ecoiui-ftre?f, between arid Vine
ftr piftJ,-ftrfide from Chefnut to Mtil
beSaflivas-ftreet, from Third to Fo®rth-ftrect,
eS l/o d.'av or horse to stand within ten feet of
■"3 Sw FOR kACKNEr' CO ACHES.
Piuc-lireet, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
h-ftreet, between Chefiiut and \\ r ajnut
ftr ß'ancC:fr«ct ) north fide,between Third and
Fourth llrce'.s. mw&fim
July l-l-
LAW BOORS, •
Latefl: London and Dublin Editions. A^or
H. Ss 5 P. RICE, Bcokftilers, T? .
No. 16, S »uth Second* and No. 50, Market flrcet,
fj AVE just received by the 1 *te arrivals from wh j
ll London and Dublin, then fprir.s import a- Ti . }
tion, confiftingnf a variety of th:.* Ut#ft and 1110..
approved 1 awßooks, whtcVi adctedtotbofe aiiea« av
dy on hand, formsthe moftextenfive collesioi» ov
er offered for fa'e in this country. They thei dure jj c g
beg icave to notice, th».t from th? nature of their £)j a j
connc&u nsin Dublin, thi"y ,afo to lcll Iri 1 - £ ni j
edition* (aa.they have hitherto (ior.e) at th" v.'ij Cw
lowest prices. The following are aiiiong the lateit n
publications. , tfint
Vefey, juu'rs Reports in Chancery, 4 .\bc
Peake's Cases at Nili Prius ; Ridjreway's vt* clo ,
in the frime of Lord HacdWrckc ; Ployer 5 Pro.flers (ta.l i
Pra&yre in the Eccfefuftical Courts ; Barton a wil
1 Trcatifc on X Su';: in Equity; 1 idd s Practice of
the Court df Kirix*" Bench in Perfor»ai Anions, 2- *-«-
part*
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vol*. London edi- Ji
tion.
H. and P. Rice «cpc& t* Receive by the firft ar-
rival from New-York *he 6th vol. complete of __
Durcford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June a 6.
"The Hittopy of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Jg now in the press, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCH.t-
RIAH Pt'ULSiN, jun. No. 80, Cheinut-ftreet, I
Philadelphia, where l'ulifcriptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propJals, until the
work is reaJv for the fubferiber*. ft
July is. ' _ -" wtf ±
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED, ton
And for sale by 7 * at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street, t^r
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED. ,
ConlitHng of a variety i<f Mifccllaneou". Pieces for
the and auiiifemcnt of YOUNO FEEt-
SONS—Volumes haiidfomely printed ami bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of thef.' pieces are
| such, that the book needs only to be known to be
! universally esteemed one of the moll valuable [flio
j lic itionsth t can be put into th» ham'* of young
I perfom.
" Delightful tail? to rear the tender rhotjht,
To teach thwyoung idea how to (hoot,
Fo pour tk« frefh iollrudlidn o'er the mind, r
To breatheth' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The g«m rous ptirpoft in the glowing bread."
Thomson.
August »4. mwf4W C«
THIS D ■* Y IS PUBLISHIiD, H
By THOMAS OOBSO AT, at the Stone *o«f«, or
No. 41, south Second street, ' e
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Ladies, on improving and in
teresting fubje<U.
TrJftflatid fion. the D«tch of Madame dt Samim
With alterations and improvements, "
Printed ..fne paper, and nent/j bund, "
Prise one dollar. ft
AMIBST the tide of modern Romances, paming '5
taks el f*traordhjary ditttefs, er of desperate or w
1 artful vi-llaiuy, which " harrow up the foul," a«ii fc
which it would Infer the honor of young ladiu to
be ignorant of, this little book comis forward to so- 0
licit notice, where i i a variety of-i»iidents, not ex- t ;
ceeding th« h«mds of rial life, the proper, beciufs n
ilegavt and 1 natural dhtrity *nd importance of the Female
cbara&tr il e*hi',ite<t In an interesting point cf view, (i
and prefcnts example* of real and attainable excel
jciicc.
The puliliiher was foraudi pleafcdwkh die peni- _
sal, tkat he was pertuaded he fnould do a ple-ifing
■ fctviM to thi community by feuding it in o circu
lation. Augtid 14 —mw4w
ACt laying Duties on Stamped Vellu vi
| Parchment and Paper.
A TEW copies of the above a& may be had at j
kc Office of. tho Gazette of die United States, No. ,
119, Chefnot-ftreet. July iy. f
■ The Partnership,
T TNDER the firm of FREEMAN IS" Company, t
I V_J is dissolved by mutual confeßt. All persons ,
having any demands against tke said fioufe are de- ,
fired render :he fame to T. B. Freeman ; and (
* those indebted to the House are desired to make pay- ,
" meut to him—By whom business will in future be ,
carried on,at his Store, No. J9, South Front-street.
0 Au S „JI 7 co<Uw
Ricbard and James Potter
li HAVE removed thoir Counting House to No.
1 45, South Fifth-ftreet.
• uguft *. w&f6*
\ Lanca'ier, Harrijburgh Carlijlt,
Sbippeiifburg and Sunburj
STAGES.
THE public are reqmlled to take notice, that
the partnership which h«s for fomc lime fub
'* filled hctweon Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved: bat, not as M.
Slough infinuatestc the public without just cause ;
us will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
~ jea from M. Slough to \T. Gccr, dated the 19th
December I aft. a recital «f which is not now deem
ed necelfary. Auy gentleman who withes to be
more cireumftantially informed of tke njerks of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may hare
°J the perrfal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
"f at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly jaftifiable in attaching hi tu
be felf to aDy other person in the prosecution cf the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place,
on No\V from the liberal and generous support the
public were pitafed to confer on the firft effort in
ts, this business, William Geer, in conjundion with
ly. Mefits. Rcily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to to prosecute and carry it on, with every cart, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
11. with carriages, horlt-s, and cvtry appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
0 f those wnu wi!h so patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their ieats at
. n George Weed's, the sign of the White liorfe,
Market Street, Philadelphia, 011 every Mond«y
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Hanifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. iTie fare as hitherto
3111 eftablifhcd.
For the further accommodation of the public,
t,lf a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
r 6 e of Saßiucl Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
ine and' return from theoce and arriva at Hairifburg
every Saturday, l'o that passengers destined tor
"I- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
tlavs.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancatltr, Jan. 17, 1797- ; ,
of N. B. This Line of Stages ttp.rta from ths
house of William Ferruc, in Lancaster, on every
Tnefday aisd Saturday morning at 6 o'clock,_pro
fth c%cding to the vveftward; and lr6m the house of
Mr. Samuel Eldei in Harrifliurg every Wednef
aut day morning, 011 the fa-rie evening arrives ;.t 1.1
trick Cochran's in Jhippcnfburg, and returns
nd from thence 011 Thurfday : performing the
fame routine dai'.y%# in its tour I hi!?', c -
, phia. mwl
' tIOMAS" LiI.UTF!.R,
North fifth street, corner of North alley, No. 34, A«.i t
HAS FOR SAL*!,
IP XCELLENTred Uounieaux Wine incafetand
J fix years oM Ul >j
White Graves Wine in cafis
1 ' " T1
Rnflh Sail Cloths
Raven, Muck ' In w
Big i^inon
Hcfli.itis
Diaper a,id Tabic Cloth La£a
Empty bags
CoiMnion German Cloth
•> n affortmcnt of black coloured Ribbons Th
i"ine "German Laces ' »cf th
About twelve tens Ruffix clean Hemp Unit
Clover Seed P srfo
Italian Soap, in fma'J boxes, for family ufs ga^i;
Window Giafs Aug 29—law refpa
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Bitto ditto Claret *n cases ters I
received, and for Sale by miltc
Rundie t:f Leech. that
Aug. 11: aaWtf was
Will be Landed, f
onboard the ship AJlive, Capt.Blair,from A,li
Him bit 1 gh, CAS j
a-o bales white Ruflia ckran Hemp A
1 calks Clover Seed
For Snlc by
Thomas Herman Lcuffer,
North Fifth street, No, 34. (*■• !
June i ft. * tvl'e
—' —'' 1 -~ » at ,
TO BE SOLD, *ia
jlnd immediate pnjfejjion given, th«
A Convenient well iiniHied Brick Tenement, vvor
with a cook house and other out houses.situ- "
atcd in a pleasant part of tho borough of Wilming- " ir
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground " ei
has forty feet front on W«ft-ftreet. and extends « o:
through the square to Pallure-ftreet, 011 which is " S
ercoled a liable and carriage honfe. " V
ALLEN M'LANE. h
Wilininiwn, Aug. 30. tJc:
Ixported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for file by John Morton, No. life, South etoi
Front-street, tior
Hyson Skin C T £AS
Tonng Hylon C J
ImpVria! j
A pril to. sOts
'' ■ 1 *—- * 1 T
For sale or to be let on ground
rent, J
jlycduable Lot of Ground ; a
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of VVal- a 5,
nut' and Fifth flreets, fronting the State- | fid
House ftjuart. This lot is fil'ty-oße feet front j f]
on Walnut (Irett, tnd one hundred and thirteen j COl
feet and an half on Fifth street j there ai-e at j ; n
present two final! two story brick houses, and a .
mimbei of final! tenements thereon. |
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient flores, wharf, situate on L
Water-flreet, between Mulberry attd Saflafras
ftreeu, containing in'root on Water street Of- H
; ty-four ftet, aml conlinuing that breadth east- J
; ward nine;y-five feet, then widening to thf S/
1 south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses t«
» ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining «>
■ on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for 1 merchant, flour faflor,or others who r
' may have occafwn for storage of goods. This
' property will b.' fold on very reasonable tsrras
' forcalh' For furtlier information apply "to the 1
pritvttr. 1 p
July 31. m - Vwtf d.
: r B E S O L D, B
And poffcfjioa given imwediatefy, ui
A LARGE two llory brick House, hatidfomely
situated in Princeton Thwe are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five roonis in
tbe garret, a range of back buildings 31 foet in
' Unglh, and a piazza of J7 feet. There is a pump
'• in the yard, an eicelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a cariiag* house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
stalls in the two stables for if horses. The heal-
U thinefs and pleafantiiefs ol its fitu.uion, and the J
18 number of geiiteel and agreeable familu** in and
* near the town, resder it a desirable rttrceat for a
d gentleman from the city. Tht coinmodioufuefs or
the house, it? central position, and the largentffs of
>t: t»heflables,m&ke wtyfuit able for a tavern,for
which it ha* always been confidcrd as a capital
ftafld. Inquire on the premises, of <
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
0 Princeton, Ang. 15. 29—diwzawrt
City of Wafliington.
t, SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the■ Improvement of the I' edttnl City.
A magnificent '1 weUing-boufe ao,«ocdollars,
lat & cafli 30,000, arc 30,000
ib- j dittd 13,00b & cast »3,00 a 40,00"
nd 1 ditto 13,000 & calh 13,009 30,900
VI. I iHttq f>,oot> £c csfh
f, 1 ditto 3,000 ?« ctftt 3, '>00 10,000
'b- 1 ditt! 5,000 & ca!h 3,000 10,000
ith j t a(J, prize of To,ooo
nl " 1 do. 3,000 «acb,arc ■ io,o«k)
l ": 10 do. 1,000 - -
10 do. ?oo - - 10,0011
l 7 c 00 do. mo - - *o,<x<«>
„ x-m do. to - /
Z: 400 do. as - -
h e 1,000 do. »o ' io>ooo
nf . 13,c00 do. to -
the 16,739 P"»es. "
in 33,161 Blanks.
ith
jed jo,ooo Tickets, at Eight Dollar#, *oo,coc>
at-
ub- N. B. To favour thofc who may taVe a quan
tify oi Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
ded the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
:to but oni : _
irm Andapprovednotes, securing payment ir.ettoer
the monty or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, i>l
at be received foi any number not less than 30 tic.t
rfe, ets. .
day This Lottery will afford an fpecimen ol
irg, cheprivate buildings to be ert 3ed in the CLtj o,
;rto Walhineton —Two beautiful defigps sre already
Itlefled for the entire fronts on two of the public
die, fquarct; from these drawivgsitisproyofed toercftl
jufe twocdntreand r ourcOrner bwildings.as foonaspoi
un» fiSle after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
lay, when. complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir
iurg the manner delcribed in the fchoma for the tlote
for Lottery. A nc.tt dednAioß of five per cent, will
ion- he made to defray thcneceffary axpeufes of print
ing, &c. and tbe surplus will be made a part ol
the fund intended for the National Umverlity, to
be creded Within thscitj of Washington.
'th. rht real fecurit,«rgiven for the payment of the
■erv Prizes, are held by the President and two D.reet
pro. ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
' of more than half the amount of the lattery.
ne r SAMUEL liLODG£T.
Pa- »§. Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of CoUn
urns IV,-, of lames Weft & Co. Eat.mote ; of Vetcr
the piimac, Boston ; of Joltn Hophms, Richmond :
•del- 'and of Richard W.IW, Cooper »Ferry.
, mv.'i
This Day Published, Sch
A»,ltp be foldky WILLIAM YOUSG; turner of,
Second and £h3fnut ftrccts,
Price 3'2/tos of a Dcttar,
Observations on certain Documents tTa
Contained i* No. V and VI of XJ. i
" The Hiiiory of the United States for SCHO
the year 1796#" onSci;
In which the caf micz of speculation against cc
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, she
Late Sechm auy of the Treasury, is FUJLL"\ i arof ,,
RKFUTFD. g
tr RITT EiV BY HIMSELF. j)j t
TMs publication prei'eiifs a .ccncifc statement
'cf the bafc means pra&ifed by the Jacabiw* of the W ritir
United States to asperse the cbanuSier* of rbofe {heath
psrfons who arc copfu-iercd as Hicmile their difor- ' blanlc
fchemes; Ic also contains the cor- the be
refponder.ee between Mr. Hamilton and Mcfirs. p U bjj c
Monroe, Muhknburgli and Venable, on the iub
jc& of the documents aj'orefaid, and a fcriei. of let- p,ooj
ters from James Reynolds<tndhi* wife to Mr Ha- ; nc
m'dton, proving beyond thepofltbility of a d>ubt, j
that the conneAion between him and Reynolds,
was the reiult of a daring conlpiracy on the part x>
bf the latter ana ilia associates to extort money. j
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ct wholcfaic purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addrefied to Mr Young. ANI
AhvuQ 25 s
No. 188. Cont
DiJlriß of Pennsylvania, to iuit : qj-
JJIE IT, RJR.YIiiMBKRKD, that on the . £
(l. s.) t W cnty sixth day of July, is.the twen
' ty l'econd year of the independence©! the United
States of America, John Femno, of the said dTf
triiSl,hath depofitedin this office the title of a bock,
th« rifht whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
, words following, to wit : -~xz
'■ Observations on certaia domments contained
- " in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
-1 "ed States for the year 9(1," in which tha charge -
i "of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late |
s " Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf" n f <c
Ilk conformity to the ail of the Conjrofs of the
Ue:ted States, cntitnled, " An a£ for the cnt»ur-
' agemcnt of learning, by feenring the copies of
maps, charts and books to tho authors am? propri- J
h etoi tof such copies, duricg h« times therein me»- S™
U ° n J SAMUEL J*
Clerk of ib, Dijlria •/ Ptnnfyhanw.
J itly » 7 . * V '* W — mi/c
An elegant Hyufe in Arch Street. pi*
TO be let and entered on Immediately a large
. and elepatit house at the Corner of A.ch and £
Ninth Street. There are two drawing moras
and one dining room —the largest is 31 feet by
»6 —and two are so conn?fitd by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed roomss be-
:■ fides s 'n the garret, well fimflied for fervaau. axJ
It | There are stables and a coach hoofe, with tvry y r „.
:n i convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 19, j ai
at |in North Seventh street, or at No. 118, Arck tV,
a I Street. "n<i
Aug. Ty. *fm
William Blackburn
3 n LOTTERY Ann BROKER'S OFFICE £
as • Wo. 64 fotftth Second* fireet.
If- '"r'ICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which ™
ft- A conimnnced drawing the 19th Mary_, FOR '
h« SALE. The price of tiAets will rifa in proper- ""
fes tion as the dr iwing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firll drawn tickets, prizes of
i a . four thousand dolla:s each, on the last day ol
h 0 drawin®.
Check Books kept for exafltination and register- J
ing, in the Canal, No.i.City of Waihington.No. '
, 2, and Paterfon Lottarics. C
Also, tickets forlalc in the SchuylkHlbridge and J
Pcrk:omcn Bddge lotteries, which will bogiu ">
drawing in the course cf the fununer. ■
The budnefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Votes, Lands, &c» &c. tranfadted With the _
utmost
ely June 1 tu&f r
Erfltine's View of the "War. p
in , Jl
mp JUST PUBLISHED,
tbe 'By ROBERT CAMPBF.LL si Co. K
No 40 South Secnnd street, tt
rPrice 31 Cents] a
'the A View of'the Cau/es nnd Con/equen- *
»"<i ces of the present War with I ranee. c
,l ' a r By the Honorable Thomas Exskini. S
■;° of Ma L_ 1
S STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Yoong, Boolcfcllcr, No. s*, South St
cond-itreet, a
rf The Pennsylvania State Trials, i
CTNtaining the impeschment, trial, and acquit
al of Fraoci.Hopkinfen, Judge of theCoßrt of 1
Idmiralty, and John Nicholfow, Comptroller Gen- '
cral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boaids, 3 ]
dollars.
W. YODN9 has for sale, a general aiSjrtmerftol 1
If- Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
lars, «ge, well allorted, and entitled u> the ifiiw' aelc il
,00(1 axported. Jmy 7—*
For Sale,
',o™. Wr<tt <vell kntivn place, tailed Fakdfurift's
jOoo i* S R R Yj
> ot)o /AN Nefhamiav «reelc, miles from Philir
,,ooo V/ ladeiphia, on the New York E oft read,
i'ooc containing ;.l acres and Upon the
~ooc premises are a large two lioty ftonc houie occu
, 000 pied as a tvern, and a j:ood one story (tone fcit
/,ono chen, a Urge frame'flable with a(hreniing
, nno floor, and i'orr.c out buildings—alio a well 01
' o good water, and an excellent ice House. On
),oqo this place is a moll elegant fitujtion fora gcntle
,|owo man's Rat, commanding a view of" the jftam-
Lry toitsjunilion wiikthe Delaware, and
across to tbe Jerfcy fficre. ft has the privilege
of ore half life toll received from the bridge.
For term 3 the Sahfcriber,
mordecai lewis
-1 >'ay 24 ■
S"; COLOMBIA HOUSE . ~
LAST Boarding School for young Ladies,
either Tt f KS- OROOMBKIDGE with mach pleaf
will JJ>jL s refpet!), returns her sincere ac
"tick- linowledgemtSit f<* the libera! encpura-crnent
(he Ins received dnrintt four years reltder.se ib
nenor ; Philadelphia ; and assures ber friends and the
:iiy of public, so far from intending to decline Iter
Ircady fcfcool, (ho his made a fu-perior orrati jeroent for
public the more convenient acO©n>fnnation o! her
oercftl fcho'ars. —Everv brar.ch of irfrful .nd polite
aspof- ediicntinn h particularly attended to by Mrs.
them, Groorabndgo and master* exccllitig in their
ftt: In rerpeiliveprcfeffions. ■ . .
Hotel r Cni . lier 0 f SpfjiCß an d Eleventh streets.
£ - w,li Jiihe ?th, .707- ,
r nilt ; The fituatimi i« perfeilly healthy ; and made
)o ' to more agreeable by an e.ttenfivg garden and lot
Ito of ground adjoining the lioule. '
Lt- ~ J^TPubli/hed,
ucd at 'And to be had of. MclTrs. DoUfon, Campbell, Rice,
Car-;, and the other picipal pooMellers in the
ciLy .prica one dollar Awinty-iive cents,in boards,
•oinm- New Views of the Origin of the
, v n c i" Tribes and Nations of Aiperica.
' By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. ".
av.f '
School Books Stationary. tJj
W. YOUN G, '■ 1
No. Secor.d-ftreet, corner of Chefnut-ftrcet* T
HAS now ready for sale, a very large afiort
mcnt of Enalijh, Freni/t, Latin and Creek ~
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alf«, such elementary book*
oh Science, as arc generally read in the academic*
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Di&iotiary, the sixth edition, ia or«
large V .I. 8 vo price 3 do! 9.
Ditto,large iinio price idol -75 ets.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Hoards Paftebosrds,
sheathing and fclo.tftfg Papers ; prii fed Blanks, t
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of v I
the best. quality, used in the counting houie, or
public office'.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colle&icn of
BOOK 3, with the price of each affiled, to be had J
by inquiring: ns above, 24.—-3aw6w
'JvJI Publijhed, and no>iv Selling,
By BENJAMIN DAVIES,
At his Book-storf, No 68. HtehtStreef* £
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND t *
ANNUAL REGISTER for tl>e UNITED STATES
FOR THE YEAR 1 7C*B :
Containing complete and catre& iiAs r of the Execa- j
tive, 1 cgiflative and Tutelary
DEPARTMENTS OF GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tab-lea, ncceff. ry to be
known in every State of the Union.
Embell'jhcd with two Enjrav-ngs,
! One of which is depidtive of a melancholy fccne
that occurred during the American war.
OA. 18.
The, Philadelphia, Atfton, anU 7 uckcrlon
MAIL STAGE.
THE proprietors beg leave to inforMjhe public, that
they Lave tfablijhcd a Stage between Fhlade!fh>a,
Atjion, Batjlo t Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nacc, Wading River fitting mill, and the town of Tuck
erton, in New-ferfcy, to go once a week. and are provi
ded with good borfes, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail, passengers, and
goods. The Stage will fart every Thatfday, at IO
o'cocL, A. M. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
lodge that night &t Joel Eodine's, at Longacomirg ; and ♦
oh on Friday, at 6 o clock, P. M. arrive at C deb E
vans' s, in keeper, in Tucker ton, difiant from toe city $4-
miler, (from the Atlantic 6, and from ihe Eajl Croufmg
Plains 7 miles) where are good actommndrtioni for tra
t vclUn, and where arc commodious qfifafe pafnge boats
j pravided to ccnvey passe gers to Capt. William Har
ringtons houfs, on Tucker s If and, ailjoinining ihe At
lantic j t'.'lere are goed out,. *\odations, and a convenient
■ pi fie e tobirthe ; the sportsman whowhjhes to regale 'Amfelf
S with fowling and filing;, tray at this place be highly gra
i'fed, there being at almof every feafen of the year fowl
andfja in abundance .—The Stag* on its return, farti
Y from the aforefaii C, Evans* sin Tucker ton, every Tu«f~
da), at 6 o'clock, A. iVI. breukfajts dt John Bodine s\ at
lVading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming*
and at I o'clock, P. M. on Widttefliy, arrive at the
tiforefaid Cooper*s Ferry. It is prefumcd thai no route of
" an equal difance will be less escpcnjive, or furuijb the tra
veller with a greater variety of amusement, as he will
Z? net only have a pleasant fail to the atlant c from Tucker
ion, but have the euriejity of feeing on the road thither a
i number of capital furnaces a>td forges, and one fitting
mill, in complete ordttf, and at work ; gentleman, toe, wha
are owners, or faflors, of any of the (f oref a id iron vsprks,
are f elicited la encourage and'fupport this flage (by wh ch
C f tl ry can be so n ell accommoda'edj the continuance <j£whieh
°i will muJj depend(*a their aid. The rates of ptykngert
° and haggafo are as follows : For a pejfenger frxirn the
of or ef aid Daniel Cooper's Ferry io Tucker ten, including
, f 14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way ppffengert
°' per mile, Four Cents—1 50 lb. of haggage eqi al Lo a paf~
n J f' n & r - Fof age of letteri, ntwfpapirs, &c. will be
• agreeably to law.
' U N. E. C lhe, mail eroffts front the Old Ferry.
, THOMAS WARDLE & Co.
: hc ' tuelerlon, Sept. *B. o#. j-—^anvtf
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
Stage starts from the OF.OROK Tavern,
i at the corner ot Second Mid Arch Street*., ill
Philadelphia, i-vtty Tut/Jay, Thy/flay, and fjatnr
(Tay, at 3 uMpclt, in the D oming ; arrives at Ho
ver the si: ft day, at Snowhiil the feccnd day, at
tlorihampton Court Houic the third day, and oil
the morning of the fourth day the ralTeiigcrs find
a l'afe and comfortable packet to «ouvey them to
n m Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
:t. cvcry Tuefdiy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stajre starts Trcm this Terry for Vhiladelphiu, every
j MopVay, Wcdr.cfday and Friday; p«t» up at Snow
Hill the firft aight, at Uov«r the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the cve»ing of the third
day.
St * Thediftance on this rout",between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, it to miles less than on any ftagc route
j between those places
uit- Too much canuot befaid in favor of the road,
rt of which is mcft excellent indeed. '1 he proprietors
►eft- Willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
is, 3 paiTenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the sam«
*tof diftan«e, so goodaroael in America. . v
ack- A us* uft ii. dim.cotf>
:1c if " ~
Window Glass,
Of Superior and cheaper thau »«y other i)a
, iheCity—
' I*{. : I* OF VJIIUQVS SIZFS.
From Bby 6 to Tg by 14,
" 1 ' 1 " Bv the fingTe Bo* or Quanii'.y, may bd bad at tftc
r '"'' ftorc of the Subfctibers, corner of Arch and Fioot»
1 the (Irctt, v
ecu " Jawes C. &<SamuelW. Fijher.
,H"' Philcdelpkia, Juneg, >797.
lung ' —.
"on Lately Pubiifliedy
ntle- In one vo). 8 vo. (price o'nu dollar ia boards) fold
.am- by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
e'vte Chefaut streets, .
,le-e A Colleaion of Papers on the fubicitof
;e. C Billitius Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years ptift.
Cimpikfi by A'o-.il? /IST-FR, juv.
tf. Containing letters from "otftors Se tKian, Smith,
Euel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfoa, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, Jcc. ic.
ies. j _-
' THE SUBSCRIBERS,
me„t ASSIONE-ES OF JAMES GREENLEAT'i
ee in HEREBY give not.ee, that tbty hive djlpo "ed
d the of thepicope.'ty a Signed to tliemfor the fonring
• her the pivvnent of tiie note , acceptances, and e«-
;tfor given by Edward Fox, for the use
her of the fjitl Jamcg Oveehleaf; antl the holders of
solite l'uch not«s, acceptance, and endorf'ements, ire
Mrs hereby r.otifyeri thai the will fettle
their with them for t!.« amount or their refpeaive
tliirrio, b<;th pkinciPAL Ind intsrest, at
-ts dny trrte befbre the acth day of OiVoher r.eKt;
Vsf after which dav, the lint applying, will
made be excluded, to the terms of affign
nd lot ment. '
App!!<.atiou« to he made at fonth-eall corner
, 0 f Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
p •.. .lock every day, Sundays excepted.
l . ' Henry Pratt,
'oardT, W \ Francis,
.kg 7'o/in Mflit'r, Jan.
\* J° hn 4ft>h>
Jacob Baktr.
*4 t ' Philadelphia, Augtjft 18, 179-71 d