of tbe & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
Number 1368.]
This Day is Publiflied,
Porcupine'S
POLITICAL CENSOR,
Foii December, 1796,
Remarks on the Debates in Congress, particularly
fln the timidity discovered by the House of Reprefen
tativM in their language towards the insolent French.
A Letter to the infamous Tom Pains,
In answer to his bruta! attack on the character and
*ondu<Jt of General Washington.
January 24.
This Day is Published,
Br BIOREN and MA DAN,
And to fee Sold at their Printing-Office, in Dock
ftrest ; by M. Carey, No. 11?, Market-street ;
Thomas Bradford, No. 8, South Front-street, and
George Douglafs, No. 2, S«uth Third-street,
(Price, neatly bound, two dollars)
AN ENQUIRY
Concerning Political Justice,
And its Influence on Morals and Happiness,
By William Godwin.
THE reputation of this work is already well esta
blished in Europe—lt is hardly neceflary for an Ame
rican e litor to fay more than barely to mention, that
the Enquiry conternmg Political Juftite has ever
since its publication been a favorite performance with
the friends of republican government. The fli'e is
pure, nervous, and clafllcal; the ideas are strongly
marked by an original vein of thinking ; and, amonglt
a multitude of other just and striking pVffages, ; the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities insepa
rable from the condition of a King, may be pointed
out as a most masterly specimen of philosophical drf
quifition. The latest London edition of this work
fells in this city at four dollars and an half.
January 24
Mas. G RAT TAN
Refpe£lfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the iclhday of January,
she proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth,
street,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, £ror» 6/3 to 12/11 per yard
Ja< onet ditto, ftom 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
St* iped ditto, from 7AO to 10/10 per yard
Fine Goflaes
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to zi/per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to isf. per yard
Sheeting Muflm
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6f per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs ftom 5/3 to tq/"6 per hdkl'.
Muslin colored and border'd Handkerchief!
pacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from J 0/8 to llfll
Pocket Handkerchief#
Cambric, from 11/3 to i 6/3 per yard
Table Cloths
Huckabuek Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6/fc to lif per pair
Dimity from jj/io to 6/11
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd mufli* Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to \y%
Irifli linens for Gentlerr en's .Shirts, from to 9ff
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
JLiinen, ©entlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, <£rayats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houfhold Linep, &.c. &c*
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 i-a dollars,,
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made ard marked, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled itto 6 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A fall ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd,lS dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 2 2.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 i-z dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. §
Particular Tencriffe Wine.
50 Quarter-talks Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a superior quality,
For Sale by
ji. Margie & Ifrarf W. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-street.
January jz
Clocks and Watchcs.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, Market street, Philadeiphu,
HAVE IMPORTE/D, by the late arrivals from
London, a large aflbrtment *f WARRANTED
WA 1 CHES, eonfifling of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd (Sold Watches, with fecoads, of superior
workmanlhip and elegance 5 also capp'd and jewel'd
.and plain Gold Watebes ; capp'd (k jewdl'd, capp'd,
fecqnds, day of the mowth, and plain Silver Watches ;
./eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames; eight day and thirty ho»r, brass
,srorks, &c.
Decembet ii, 1796.
For Sale,
By .George Defchamps, No, 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Macfcarel
Smoaked Marring in barrels and k«g»
Pitto Salmon, hy the dozen or single one
IXry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentaU
Fine and eaarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
ahd ground, for manure and stucco-work
Decjmber 1 <Jtf
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jaraaiea Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhd«
Old Hock, iy cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes
Hazlennte, in sacks
Whiting
A Spanish Brown J
For Sale by P£TER BLIGHT.
January 4 $
containing
ALSO,
djtawzw
tts6
dxm
THURSDAT EVENING
The Stockholders of' the Pennsylvania
Population Company-
Are requeued to meet at the Company's Office, ,No.
53, North Fourth-street, on Wednesday, the lft of
February next, at o'clock, for the purpose of taking
into confederation the proceedings of tbeCompany, and
of making further afiefTinents on the shares, in order
to defray the oxpences of the Company agreeable to
the 20th, Article of the Constitution.
By arder of the Board.
SOLOMON MARACHE, 1 Secretary.
January, 33d, 1797. dtFeb.:.
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOB SON,
No. 25, South Third-ftrett,
Has jufl reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, viaJ.on
don, an afTortment of
Scarlet >
Drab / Cloak* trimmed with lur and
Purple and ( ermine.
Pearl J 1 •
December 15. §
NOTICE,
Persons having Goods 011 board the Ship Persever
ance, James Williamfon, matter, bound from Ham
burg to this Port, and lately put into New-York}
where the Veflel is difchargmg, will please apply to
THOMAS and rOHN KETLANJ).
Philadelphia, Jan. %i, 1797, tf
A Pocket-Book.
LEFT, yesterday morning, jt, or LOST coming
from the lower ferry inn to Philadelphia, a Red Mo
rocco Poeket-Book, containing one ten dollar bank
note, sundry papers, letters, Instruments, and two
promiflory n<*tes, drawn by C. Jackson & Go. dated
ift Novembrr, 1796, -at 120 days, for 505 dollars
each, and indorsed by the person in whose favor thev
are drawn. Any one who will deliver the book with
the papers, letters and notes, to the printer hereof,
(hall have the mctney for their trouble, without any
questions aflced.
Ni B. The papers can be of no use to any one but
the owner, the means of negotiating ihem being flop
ped.
Jannary 13
Cheap French China.
THE fobferibers finding it impoffibleto fnpply their
flore with any more China from Franpe, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufaifleries, give no
tice that they will fell at prime colt the remaining
flock on hand, consisting of
Deflect Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Gro Unes and Figures
Alabaster Vases
Looking Glasses, in gilt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet • .Iks, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIEU & Cp.
No. 91, South Second-street.
rt-H
NOTICE.
THE S»Ws of LANDS of the United State?, in the
North-Western Territory, heretofore adyertifed
in .the several public papers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to he continued from day
to day, 'till tfce tenth of February ijext, if not sooner
fold.
January 4
Public Notice,
IS HRRERY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this fcitc, to supply the
defe*ft in my Title to a lot of ground, fitunte on the Weft
(ldc «f Fonrth-ftrtet, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
in length 56f se t, bonnded Northward and Westward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
3hippen, and F.af:ward by Fourth-street, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from Tin-rat by Harrington, John Lewis
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollrnenx
—All perfoms conoerned, are required to appear before
two of the juftiefs of the said court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, afq. thx Chief Jaftice of the Date, on
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
aniwer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office of
Edward Buret, esq. Prothonotary of the said caurt.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dt3oth
YVafhington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purcbafed or
exchanged for prizes, at the Offioe, No. 147, Chefaut
ftreet, where a correA Numerical Book is kept for public
infpeiUon. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diawn in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received,
' £3" The Business of a Broker carried on as usual.
January 11. ttitf
SALT PE.TRE,
A large quantity of Donble-Refined Salt Petfe for
faJe at No. 25, South Third-street.
November 5.
Loft or Mislaid,
At the Bank of the United States, Jofcph Higbce's
Note, dated 19th December lad, tor twelve hundred
dollars, payable at 60 days to Nathaniel Lewis & Son.
Whoever may find the fame will please return it to said
Sank, or to the fubferibers, who will allow a reward.
Payment being barred, it c?.nnot be of use to any
other person. NATHANIEL LEWIS & SON.
January 5. J. lt>
For Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
Three (lories high, 16 feet front, and 40 feet deep
each, and adjoining; situated on the east fide of Front,
between Race and Vme-ftreets; N05.161 jnd 16}.
They will be fold on very reasonable terms, either
Ceparately or together. Apply to
JOHN MILLER, jun. CO.
Jannary 13
A C A R D.
If Monsieur G. H. Soelb,
Who left Bordeaux the aoth June last, and arrived
it Boston ..bout the middle of Aaguft, in the ichonner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is reqnefted to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him fimr information of importance.
December 24, 1796. $•"
, JSNUA RT 26, 1797.
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
H i CM-STREET,
Was received by the late arrivals,
A IVell Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholefile and retail, on the very
loiteft tirms ;
Amongjl ivhlch art
Some elegant 4-4 ind 7-8 Chintaes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Fnrniture ditto
Ditto Diliwty
Tamboured, Book, and Jar«net Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Mofiery
Umbrellas of tKe firft quality, afTorted
lrifh Linens, very fins, and Table Linens
MarfeiHes and Cotton Counterpanes
Rofc Blankets aflorted—&c. &c.
O&obffr d
I or
By the Subfcriberi—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imoorted by the Eagle.
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30
FOR SALE,
7HE SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
-j»£SS£fe3£?T wo hundred tons burthen. Applv to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, file will Cak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Odlober 31. d
i t|>x For Sligo and Killibegs,
- The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, raafter.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or pafTage apply to
William Bell;
Who his for Tale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well afTbrted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and a boxes Linem
25 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo
A few barrel* P. ime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November n, 1796,
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DI AN A,
' ®"&j Samuel Pilf, Matter,'
Burthen »oj 4 7*95 tons register, built in
J&USsSf Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live oik
and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago, (he
hasjufi had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at % vny trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip JSickiin & Co.
Who have for fate on beard said vjfft,
aalks of fine yellow paint.
9 i r:xe»and I i bundles of writing flate#,
i box ink stands and note preiles.
14 bale# of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial }
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the fir ft quality.
19 tnlis Quicksilver.
* chert* Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Mam'hefter goodswell aflorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, GUaghams, Muijinets, Dimities, &c.
3 bo*es black sewing silk.
180 crates Queens ware well aflorted.
10 tons (heet lead
Nai'.s afPirted, fiat and (harp points.
London Particular, ")
London M.rkrt, £ Madeira W,nf m ptpes
New-York Market, ) ho S flleads -
40 pipes and !o liogfheads Tenjriflfe wine,
8 tierces Snake Root.
130 logs Mahogany.
Nov 7.
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
On the following Pofl Roads, •will ie recti<ocd until
theJlrJl day of March next inclti/ive
I. Front Charleftun, S. C. by Jaekfonboro' ajid Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the Mail
at CharLifton every Tuelday and Friday hy 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the nejet Friday tnd Monday, by 8
A. M. Returning* receive the Mail at Savannah evet
Saturday, by P. M. and Wednesday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Cheriefton the next Tuesday and Friday
by noon.
Prtpcfals for this route until be received by the pojt-majier, at
B*vantiah. *
2. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a weck-rr
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. He
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, M.and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by .8, a. m. f
Proposals for carrying the mail .011 this route will be r«-
aeived by the poft-ynafter at Beaufort.
Note I. The Post-master General may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance ps the contra&s, Jie previoufiy stipu
lating an adenuate competfation for any extra expence
that be ocoafioned thertfljy.
Note 2. For every hours delay (..unavoidable accidents
excepted) hi arriving after the times prescribed by con
tract, the contra&or shall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continye until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture -ps five dollars ihall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, he mud /late the alteration desired aad the price
he will carry the mail for with and without fnch alte-
ration.
Note 4. The are to be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in tfre year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pt/1 *AaJ\tr General.
Sereral Port Office,, "J
Philadelphia, j^n.
'<m. »6.
Sale,
w&r
Russia Mitts.
Also,
mwftf
tfth&fcf
d&w.
New-Theatre.
The Managers refpe<3j'ul]y inform the public, that
ci'. account of the extensive preparations for the Hif
toric4l Play of COLUMBUS, or A WORLD DIS
COVKRED, there wil be no perlorman-e at the New
Theatre nntil Monday the 30th inft. when the above
piece will be produced, with new Scenery, Machine
ry, Drefies and Decorations.
January 24
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdiek,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Stcond-ftreets,
A mojl capital and •xtenfve Assortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, See. See.
Among which are,
A fparaguskThrec
BerecoL Twelve
Beans Thirteen
Beets] Fifte»n
flrocoli Fiftees
Cabbage Six
Carrst Four
Cauliflower Twenty-three
Celery Twenty-one
Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot iClarjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzc}
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foiu Lucern#
Red and white Clover Timotliy, &c.
With a curious collection of the most eftegmed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seidfman in London, an 4
are warranted frefli and good.
Pristed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Uec. 17- §
kmds
Fiv«
Four
Twenty-five
Si*
Eleven
Twenty-fix
Six
Three
Five
Teg
FOR
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial } r Hyson Skin,
Hyson, > Frefl» Teas, s Souchong,
Young Hyson, J C. Bohea
Dec. 9
n order to comply with contrails, I -will fell, for
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments,
A i T /\rnrt
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Fredericklburg, beginning op
pdfit* to the lower corner of Doilor WellfWd's, oij
Caroline-street, and running up }o the cross ftreef
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence hj>ck to
Sopiiia-ltreet. This square I have laid off into 24 lets,
27 and an half feet front, and iza back, 11 op Cam
line-ftreet, and 12 ou Sophia-street. Nine of those
Csroline-i'lreetl have leafed on an annual ground
rent of 8 and Id pounds, ,to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purchaser could enhanne the value
of by building houses, whiph w ill js readily
proeure tenants as pots or guards will Martins in the
spring, and yiel-o a greater p.rofit in proportion tq
their cost than large buildings. Thof* who ijj.cluic
0 purchase may knew the terms by applying to
HENRY FfTXMUGH.
7thJ.d4W
BeK-Air, Dec. 8, 1796,
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWAEi>
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland i* 1783, or 1784, and came i'r.tg
tills Country, ('tis supposed to Philadelphia) abo;i-.
four years since, be Uvin<j or dead. As this intelli
gence is of thehigheft importance, it will be thankful,-
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
w & sim
December 31
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Directors tlv» day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars «->n each fliare was declared for the last
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders jf
ter ihe 14th mil.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafcler.
dtf.
J""- 3
Hibernian Society.
Such of the Members of this society as are entitled !o
Diplomas, are requeued to apply for them to
Mr. Hugh Holmes, Vice- Prejldtnt;
Mr. David M'Csrmick, Treasurer g
Mr. Robert H. Drinker, Counfcllar;
Mr. Jojeph Briton ;
Mr. Edward Fox ;
Or to MATHEW CAREY, Sec.
Philad. Jan. »i, 17917- taw6t
JLe breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of th.s
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete afiortment of every thitig neceflary
to be used fort he
Preferyatjon of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice id powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
fv/cetening the mouth and prefcrving the teeth—he
alio furnilhes Brulhes and loft Sponges.
* # * H* Jives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, ahave
Fourth-ilreet.
November 16
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Tioufand
Dollars,
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
lie eat» 150 weight and drinks a barrel of
water ; be has drank some days forty bottles of perter,
drawing the corks with his tru^k.
He is perfe&ly inoffenfive; travels loose, at (<he
rate of five miles an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever .brought to this Conti»ent.
H f is to be seen 'till the l£th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one roayvfee him-—
after which £ime the ibrroer price of half a dollar will
be relumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 ' . d
[Volume XI,
kinds
Creffea
Onioa
Radifti
Turnip
Peas
Savor
Parsnip
Meloij
J-ettucc
SALE,
3taw.;m,DOCUMENTS
Which accompanied the mcffage cf the Prefirtent of
the United States to both Houses of Congrtfs,
January 19, 1797,
Letter to Mr. P'mcknej, Minifler Plenipotentiary qf
the United States to the French Republic.
' Continued.
7. " Notwithstanding the faith ef treaties, it gave
" an asylum to these fame EngliOi, who alter having J
" insulted her flag, pillaged her citizcns, eame alfoto
" brave the American people in their ports, and to !
"t-kei flation whence to cruise, 011 a favourable
" ciportumty, against the French."
This like mod other of Mr. Adet's charges, is bat
the renewal of the complaints of his predeeeilor, Air.
Fau&het, andthe vindication of the government, will '
appear in the answer and communication* from/tlie 1
Secretary of State to tha,t minilter, in the years 1794 j
and 179 ;. The cases particularly noticed were those
of the Britifli frigates Terpsichore anfl her prize la
Montagne ; and of tlie.Britilh Ihip Argonaut and her
prize L'Efpera»ce. The Thetis and Hussar Britifli fri
gates with their French prizes la Prevoyance and la
Kaifon are also mentioned, but without any facls or cir
o.iiiftances as fubjeCU of which of course is
precluded. That of the Terpsichore ami her prize ap
pears to have been the firft cafe of the kind in which
the Executive of the United States and those of the
particular states were called te interfere ; and there
fore, it will not be thought extraardinary if the Exec
utive of Virginia was unprepared with arrangements to
give infyant effeiSt to the flipulation of the 17th article
of the trtatyof 1778, forbidding,an afy|um to the arm
ed veflels of the enemies of France and their prizes.
What delay took place seems to have been the result of
accident; certainly not of design. And by letters from
this department the Executives were garneftly prefled
to take the neceflary order for a prompt execution, in
future, of this part of the treaty. But why ihould
the French ministers complain with fu-.h energy, that a
-Britifli fhipof war, withhef prize, remained in one of our
ports during perhaps twenty or five and twenty days ;
when against the earnest rejjuefts and orders of the 1
Executive, the French privateers, armed in o»r ports
in violation of the laws, Wg continued to keep on our
coast and enter our harbours, thence 011 favorable
opportunities, to ciuife against their en-mies? The
Columbia, or Carmagpole, continued such her unlawful
afls for more than a year.
After all the zealous remonflrances of Mr.'Fauehet,
row renewed by Mr. Adet, about the capture of the
French corvette L'Efperance, by the Briti/h (hip Argo
naut, who went with her prize into Lynn Haven Bay,
what were the fads 1 The Governor of Virginia went
personally to the French Consul at Norfolk fer infor
mation concerning this declared violation of the treaty
—but " received none which appeared to juflify the
" uneafmefs eccafioned by that event, he charging no
" circumjiance at improper in the captors but rather
" fcemed to consider the introduction of the prisoners
" made 1 on that occasion, so soon into a place where
"the exchange would be effefled, as an alleviation or
■" the misfortunfc of lofi!!g the veflel." The Captain
of the French corvette himft If wasdefircl to give evi
dence in the cafe ; he promised hut failed to" appear.
He was called upon the fccond time to give informa
tion, but discovered an unwillingness to do it, observ
ing that he had given the Consul a circumstantial ac
count of the tranfadfion oa his arrival, The governor
having heard that a refpcftable pilot by the name of
Butler was acquainied with the circumstances of this
affair, ne directed hisdepofition to be taken: it was
taken and imported that Admiral Murray himfelf
purchased the prize L'lfperance, and manned and fit
ted her in Lynn Haven Bay for a cruise. But Butler's
deposition was afterwards taken on the part of the
Britifli, in which he contradided all the material fa<fts
recited in the former deposition ; for which he ac
counted by faying that he could neither write nor read,
and that there had been inserted in his firft deposition
wJiat he had never said. Under these circumstances it
was desirable to o'.itain further information. This was
furnifhed by the Britilh miaiflerin the extr-i<Sl of a let
ter from Admiral Murray, which bears every mark of
candour and humanity, and of refpeft for the United
States. It is as follows.
" The#French (loop of war L'Efperance was
« brought into Lynn Haven Bay on the nth of
«< Jannary (a few days after my arrival there) by
f captain Ball, who had captured her ij leagues
«« from the shore, the weather being very pnpef
<« tuoas, a lieutenant with a fufficient miml er of
«« men only to navigate her (not being half the
«« complement the French had in her) w te sent
•« on board from the Resolution and Argonaut ;
'• and so soon as the weather permitted these ships
" to supply her with water and provisions, I sent |
" her to sea, that I might give nu umbrage to the <
» American states. An additional reason for !
«< bringing L'Efperance into Lynn Haven Bay '
« was out of humanity to the French prifuiurs, I
" whem, having had a long voyage. I sent te 1
" Norfolk as soon as would permit : '
" otherwise they must have been kept prisoners on '
«■ board the whole wintei.and sent to Halifax in '
» the Spring j nor was flic equipped or aimed then , '
«< in any manner whatever ; nor did the lieutenant '
«• receive any cemmiffion foe her whllft in Lynn '
»« Haven Bay; and when at sea only an achtig *
1 ' order to command her, which is customary and
'« abiVutely necessary in all captures ; otherwise if ■
<« retcX-en by the enemy, he might be conlidcred
" as a pirate."
Bth. " It might be said that it applauded their
" [tha EogiiftiJ audacity ; all fubmifiion to their
" will, it allowed the French colonies to be de
" clared in a Hate of blockade, and its citizens in.
*< ttrdiSed the right of trading with thcin."
If among the multitude of such complaints as
M r - Adet has exhibited, any ene could excite fur
ptife, this chatge is calculated to r, • duce it. Here
a formal charge is made again!} the government of
the Uni'-ed States, that it did not control, in ano
ther Independent nation, the right of judging of its
own affairs—that it did not forbid and efft'anally
prevent the officers of a foreign power, the Britifli
admirals and commanders, in the Weft-Indies, de
elaiing certain Frenth colonies to be in a state of
blockade! —" But the official legalization of a
" a proclamation had been palled up under eur
" eyes, prohibiting pur commerce with the French : n
" colonies, and fafpendirg us alone the law of c
" nations! The anfoer to Mr. Fauche , frum the
secretary of state, reprcfents this matter differently. «
The Britifli consul general at Philadelphia, by a
a publication of the loth of April 1795, g av e no- d
ticfc that he had received t.ffi, ial communications a
that the ifiands of Guadalaupe, Marigalente and
Defirade, were by proclamaiian issued by hit Bii
tannic m:jclly's general and vice-admiral command
ing in the Weft Indies, declaied to be in an aflual
state of blockade; and that neutral (sot singly P
Amer'uan) vefTcT-., were prohibited' frcirr
attemptjng to enter any ports or places in those
iflanda with supplies of any ki;id. under the penalty
of being I' dealt with conformably to exilling trea
" ties, and as warranted by the eftabhlhed laws of
r " nations." And while exitting treatie* (0111
treaty with Great Britain had no eperative cxift- (
ifter.ee till fix months after the consul's advertise
. mcnt) and the lavvs of nations were avowed to be
. j the rules by which the property of neutrals was in
> : this safe to be adjudged, had they reason t# torn
-1 ; plain ? If any neutral veflels attempted to enter any
- of those ports which were not in reality in a state
ef blockade, and yet were captured, could they be
condemned ? Certainly not by the rules which the
I Britilh prescribed to themselves " treaties and th«
c 1 " laws of nations ' But if the Britifli commanders
4 proclaimed untruths, and issued arbitiary orders far
- capturisg neutral veflels ; and their cruisers aud
1 courts of admirality executed them arbitrarily ;
1 could the American government pteyent them ?
a We coulJ demand of the Britilh government satis
. fatlion for injuries to eur own citizens consequent
s on such orders : and if any such were fultained, the
- arrangements for making reparation are now in
h execution. But admitting that any ports in the
e French colonies were in fadl blockaded ; who should
notify it to neutral nations accuftcmcd to trade
j with those ports ? Certainly the officers of that
e power whose fleets and armies formed the blockade:
- and in the United States no mode of giving univer
1. sal notice could be so effectual as a publication in
f hand-bills and newspapers.
| gth. "It eluded all the advances made by the
" republic for renewing the treaties of commerce
j " upon a more farorable footing to both nations;
j " it axcufed itfelf on the most frivolous pretexts ;
r " whilst it anticipated Great-Britain, by soliciting
; " a treaty in which prostituting its neutrality, it
2 " facrificed France to her enemies; or rather loek
-5 " ing upon her as obliterated from the map of the
£ " world; it forgot the services the had rendered it,
. " and threwafide the duty of gratitude, as if in
1 " gia'ittide were a government duty."
Or the advances referred to, the firft were made
, by Mr. Genet. These yau will fee in tiie printed
between him and Mr. Jeffcrfon.
Mr. Genet's letter is dated the 23d.ofMay, 1793,
in which he informed the government that he was
authorized to propofc a treaty on a " liberal and
" fraternal bafts." Mr. Jefferfon's letter to Mr.
Morris, our minister at Paris, dated the 23d of
Augutt, 1793, affigna the reason for postponing
the negociation. 4-" The senate (fays he) being
" then in recess, and not to meet again till the
" fall, I appiifed Mr. Genet that the participation
" in matters of treaty, given by the constitution
" to that branch of our government, would of
" courft delay any dejimlivc answer to his friendly
" prnpofition. *Ai he was fenCble of this eircum
" stance, the matter has been understood ta lie
" over till the meeting of the senate." Congress
were not to meet until December; consequently
there was no neceflity of precipitating the business.
But with the bell dispositions to form new commei- 1
cial arrangementsmutually moreoeneiidalthan those
ofthetreaty of 1778, the unwarrantable conduct of
Mr. Genet, from the momenthelanded at Charleston
until the date of his letter on the fubjeft of the
negociatian, was fufficient to excite caution in the
American government. He had there violated the
fevereignty of the United States. " By autho
" rizingthe fitting and aiming of veffcls in that
" port, enlisting msn, citizens and
■ '' g' v '»g them commissions to cruize and cftmmit
" hoftilitie4.on nations at peace with and
with whom we had extensive commercial connec
tions. These privateers were taking and bring
" ing prizes into our ports, and the cenfuls of
" France were assuming to hold courts of admi
" rnityon them, to try, condemn and authorize
" their as legal prize." Nevertheless, the go"-
vernment really drfirous of forming a new and
more advantageous commercial treaty tvith France,
inftruAed the minitterof the United States at Pa
ris to nianifeft the fame to the executive of
acid to suggest for this purpose that ti>c. powers of
I Mr. Genet be renewed to his fucceffer. It is true
• that in his letter, dated the 30th of September,
| Mr. Genet had renewed the propofi ion of nego
tiating a eommertoal treaty ; but how was it pof
fihle for the government to undertake a negocia
tion with that minister after The correspondence
" -which had taken place between the executive
aRd him" (a correlpondence on his part replete
with insults " and the ails which he had thought
" proper to do and to countenance in oppefttion to
" the laws of the {'land?" After the government
had infttuficd our minister at Paris to desire Mr.
Genet's recal; aid to declare to the government
of France " The neceflity of their having a re
, " prefentative heredifpofed to refpeft the laws and
" authority of the country, an 3 to do the best far
" their inteteft which theie would permit :" " and
" when it was only-an anxious regard for those
" interests, and a desire that they might not fuf
" fer, which induced the executive in the mean
" time to receive his communications in writing,
" and to admit the continuance of his fuiiilions so
" long as they (hould br restrained within the li
" mits oftltelaw,as theretofore announced to him,
" or fliould be of the tenor usually observed to.
" wards independent nations by the representative
" of a friendly power residing with them !'* Un
der such circumstances what answer could the exe
cutive return to Mr. Genet more proper, and more
marked with attention to Fiance, than that his let
ter " would be considered' with all the refpeft and
" interest which il# otjefl necessarily requirefl i"
It is probable that the powers to negociate a
commercial treaty were not renewed to Mr. Ge- 1
net's fucceffur ; certainly they were not communt- 1
cated to our government. ' * 1
We now come to the frefh overtures of a com
mercial negociation made by Mr. Adet.
1 he firft notices of them arc found in memoran
da of fa<3* dated the 27th and 29th of June 179J, i
and fubferibed by the secretary of state. By these 1
1
* State papers, p. 15. ■ ' ;
f Stats papers, p. 68.
t Letter to Mr. Morris, August tfith, 1793, Stat* pa
pers, p. s g. j
S Stat: papers, p. 68,
it appears, that or the 13th of June Mr, Adet ar
lived at Philadelphia. On the 15th Mr. Fattfhet
introduced-him to the fecietary of state; —on the
16th Mr. Adet informed the fectetary that he
fhauld the next day fend him some aft of the French
government, relative to commerce : but it was not
sent. On the 2zd of June Mr. Adet was remind
ed of the pramifed communication. He said it
was copying, and gave reason to suppose that he
Ihould forwaid it on that day : but on that day
nothing was received.
On the 29th of June 1795 Mr. Adet had an
interview with the secretary of state : He observed
that he brought with him the commercial decrees
which Mr. Genet had formerly propounded to our
government, and was inttrudted to negociatu a trea
ty of commerce upon their basis. He was asked
whether he had any documents to communicate.
He replied that he would fend them that day. He
said lie had to communicate some inquietudes re
-1 fpt sting the late treaty between the United States
and Great-Britain. He obtCVved that it was un
derstood, that the United States had disabled them
selves from entering into a new commercial triaty
1 upon a liberal scale with France. The secretary
answered that he had determined before he came,
ta ask the peimiffion of the President to communi
cate to him a copy of the treaty; and then he
might fay in what part he supposed that any im
! propriety with refpedl to France exilled. The
President having afterwards affentcd, the secretary
on the fame day delivered to Mr. Adet a printed
copy of the treaty ou which he promised to com
municate his remarks.
These remarks dated June 30th, and the Secre
tary's answer dated July 6th, refuting the objeiSti
ons they contained, I have already noticed. The
subsequent preceedings will {how either that those
ohjeftions did not make any strong impressions on
Mr. Adet's mind, or that the Secretaiy's answer
had removed them.
On the 30th June 1795, Mr. Adet communica
ted a part of his inftrudions relative to " a Hew
" commercial treaty and a new confalar Conventi
" on to be entered into between Fiance and the
" United States." The inltrudtions imported that
he was only to " prepare with the American go
" vernment the means and arrangements" of these
treaties, and then to communicate them to the
committee of Public Safety. The object of the
new treaty was declared to be "to found the com
" mercial relatione of the two republics upon fti
" pulations more reciprocally advantageous, and
" more clearly worded than that of 1778, and the
" obj.*dt of the Consular Convention to secure the
" execu'ion of the commercial treaty."
The secretary of state answered on the ift of Ju
ly exprtfllng the readiness of the government to
open the proposed negotiation ; and requested a
communication of the dates of the decrees to which
Mr. Adet's inftru&ian referred.
On the Bth of July 1795, Mr. Adet replied to
the secretary of state " that he neither knew nor
" pofTefled any other decree relative to the new ne
" gstiat'on to be opened between France and the
" United States than that of the * sth of Febrn
"aT '793' communicated to us by Citizen Ge
" net." Tiiis letter of the Bth was received the
I 2th accompanied by a note of the latter date apo
logizing for the delay on account of fickfcefs. On
I the I 2th the secretary of state had written to him,
prejjing him on the fubjtift of the new negotiation.
On the 161U of July I 795, the secretary of state
again wrote to Mr. Adet ; and after informing
him that as he was not clothed with any very for
mal authority upon this fubjeft, the President of
the United States had thought proper to place him
(the Secretary, of State) upon the fame & no other
footing,—-the secretary proposed that the negotia
tion should be conducted in wiiting, unless when
either thought it expedient to have an interview OVI
any particular difficulty. And then assuring Mr.
Adet that no unnecttfiiy procrastination (hould be
found in the secretary of state, further proposed,
that Mr. Adet should state ift the parts of the
tteaty which he wished to be abolilhed : id, those
parts which he wished to be c«>rre&edand 3d, any
additions which seemed to him defirallr : But ex
piefled the readiness of the secretary to adopt any
other better mode of conducing the negotiation,
if fudh occurted to Mr. Adet.
On the 20th of July 1795, Mr. Adet mention.
ing his sickness which for fifteen days had obliged
him to abstain from business, replied on the fubjeft
of the negotiation in these words <« In a few days
" I ftiall have the honor of feeing you, and of ta
" king the neeeflaip meafurcs in order to com
" nience the business relative to the'digefting of
" the new treaty and new Consular Convention."
From this detail, it must I conceivc be no easy
talk to find aay facts by which Mr. Adet's chatVe
can be supported. What ".ie afFedb ta call " frivo
lous pretexts'' are fubflantial reasons ; and in res
pedl to his own advances to treat, the condufl of
our government manifefts an eagerness to enter on
the negotiation : certainly you will discover in it
no disposition to elude or to procrastinate.
You will be pleased to observe, fir, that the let
ter from the secretary of state to Mr. Adet, ex
plaining the manner in which they should proceed
in the negotiation is dated the 16th of July and
that Mr. Adet's answer agreeing shortly to meet
ihe secretary, in order to take the necefTary mea
futes for commencing the business is dated the 20th
of July ; yet in his note of November 15th 1796,
alter having charged the government of the Uni
ted States. '• With eluding all advances made by
" the republic for renewing the treaties or cora
" merce and excusing itfelf on the molt frivolous
" pretexts," after acknowledging thgt the Prefi
dei t had authorized the secretary of. state te nego
tiate, and that the latter had explained the manner
of preceeding, he asks " But at what time ? When
" the ratification ef the tteaty concluded between
.Lord Grenville and Mr. Jay no longer permitted
" the to pursue that negotiation." I
am forty fir, in this place to call your attention to
dates. The Britilh treaty was not ratified until
the 14th of August 1795, that is about a month
after the plan ef negotiating with Mr. Adet had
* Mr Adet h?.i since corrected this date, the decree
intended being dated February 19,1793. • 1 his is already
publifhcd witi the State paper* ef taat year, page 15.
been propofed.tn birr by flic fr letaryof flair, and
twenty-five days'aitei lie bati i,p proceed u»
it. And if that ratification finally induced him to
abandon the idea of negotiating anew treaty he.
tween France and ihe United Stales, it did nci in.
flantly produce this determination. He doul.rhfs
perceived that his own obje&ions to the British
tieaty were obviated by the answer from the fecre-
(late,and when he acknowledged the receipt
of it, be had given up the right of judging of the
treaty, whether it was good or bad I fhaU (fays he,
in his letter of July 20th 1795) " transmit it (the
«i fecrerary's answer) to the French government
" together with my observations and the treaty.
" In fucb important circumftanees, it is exclufivdy
" the ijroviuce of my government to judge ; and
" I csnnot permit myfelf to decide at all." And
then immediately adds—y In" a few days [ fhs 1
" have the honor of feeing you, and of taking the
" necelTary measures in order to commence the bu
" finefi relative to the diverting of the new tieaty
" and new Consular Convention." The British
treaty then did not obftr\i6t the negotiation, the
principles of which might have been agreed on,
and the articles drawn into form to be fubmitud to
the refpeftixe,governments : for that was allnhfe
refpe£tive negotiators were authorized to do.
Will the minilteir of the French republic never
cease to Reproach us with " ingratitude >" If, in.
deed, " France wrought" a 6 well i "guaranteed
" the independence of the United States," as Mr.
Adet asserts, "at a time when (he n»i»h', as the
" price of that very indeptndence, have granted
" them lefj liberal condi'ions," our oldigario, arc
greater than wehavehithertoimagined. Eu'it is time
that these claims to our giatitude were iivclligated,
and iheir extent ascertained. We have citizens yet
alive who were actors and witnesses of the declara
tion of our independence, and of the efforts to main,
tain it, with their effefls, prior to our treaty with
France. But laying no (tiefsdn our own recollec.
tions or consciousness, we will icfort to the telti
meny of France herfelf.
France, by her minister the marquis deNoaillej,
having, in the declaration of the 1 jth of March
1778, which I have already quoted, announ edto
the court of London, the treaty ofy filendfhip and
commerce (he had formed with the United States ;
and that to maintain the commerce of bis fii! jefls
with them, which was the objett of that tieaty, his
mod Chriflfan majedy had " takep.eventual mea
" fures in concert with the United States of North
" America that court publittjed a jullificative
memorial to vindicate to the war (he had
determined to wage agamft France. In the ob
servations of the eoutt of France on this Brit
memorial, we find the following declarations on the
part of Fiance, " * While the amkaflador of Eng
" land put the king's pp.tience ta the ftipngeft
" proots, and while the court of London was con.
" ftaatly repeating denials ofjuftiee to his majffty's
" fabjefls, at the fame time.that the British officers
" continued to desolate them on the sea, an eytnt
" came to pals in America, which eflcntially
" changed the face of things in that quarter of the
" world. This event was the defeat of the army
" under general Burgoyne. The news of this un
" expe&ed disaster, which arrived in Europe, in
" November 1777,aftonilhed the British ministers,
" and mud have the more sensibly affe&ed them,
" as it overthrew the plan they had laid for the re
'■ duSion of the colonies." The observations then
fugged that this great event induced, in the British
cabinet, the idea of conciliation with America,
and of a coalition against the crown of France, in
revenge for the fnppofed aid rendered, by her, to
the United States ; and to gratify " their mod
dear and conltant wi(h—that of humbling
" fit was natural for the British miniltry unable
" to fuldue her colonies, to seek ta be reconciled to
" them, and to engage them to espouse her re
" fentment. They so much the more flat
" ter themselves that they should fticcced herein,
" as the proceedings of France with regard to
" American privateers, and especially the dijlike the
" king had et ail times mar.ifcjled to any engagement
" with the Cangrfs, mud have given difgult and
" dtfTstisfadtion to their deputies, and indue tjjem,
" notwithstanding thrir well 'known averfloo, ta
" seek even in England, the fafety of country
" when they failed to find it in France."
f " The king, well informed of the plan of the
" court of London, and of the preparations which
" *"e"re the confequenee of it, perceived that no
" mote time was to be loft, if he would prevent
" the designs of his enemies: His majesty deter
mined, therefore, to take into consideration, at
" length, the overtures of the Cong-refs."
§ " The Cominiflioners [from the United StatesJ
" propoftd to the King a Treaty of Amity and Com
" mer6e, and an alliance offenfive and defenfive, by
" which his Majesty ihoukl engage not only to ackriow.
•' ledge (imply and purely the Independence of the Uni
" ted Stitei, but also to guaranty and defend it by
" force of arms. Ihe King ordered an answer to be
" given that he could indeed look upon the Indepen.
" dence of the United States m exifling ; but that it
" did not belong to him to acknowledge it, becauft he
" had not any right to judge 6f it; neithtr rotild
" guaranty it, as he did not intend to enter into ivarfor '
" its support. His majesty in tonfequence refufed an
" offenfive alliance, and confined himfelf to th: Treaty
""f -Amity and Commerce. But as it was more than
<£ probable that the eowrt of London HAD formed a de.
" Jign of attacking France His majesty thought" he
'' ought to enter into an alliance with the United States
11 E-ventual and" purely DefenfS've. The llipulatjons
" contained in this second treaty are in substance, thit;
" // France fJmuld be attaacked by the Court of Lo'n.
" don before the cefifation of hostilities b'etwecn that
' Court and its Colonies, that the King and the United
States should mutually aflift cach othtr tin®
" common enemy 1 That the King (bould arante*
" the Independence and sovereignty of the United
States, and that he flaould not lay down hisarnsi tiU
" it Ihould be acknowledged by Great Britain."
Thus it is maßifefted that the United State., were to
. ' tO , their own battles unUfs Great BrU
tarn fhovid choose to increase the number of her enemies
by attacking France in which cr e it weulci be truly the
"ltercft of France as of the United States -to make it i
common cause.
£To be continued.]]
* Obs. f. 60. , 1
+ Obs. p. <54.
i Obs. p. 66.
j" Obs. p. 6;,I'H ILA D ELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 26,'1797.
"The Warning, No. I," will be publiihed to
morrow,
The Aurora thinks it highly probable that Mr.
Pinckney will noi be received by the terrible repub
lie, ai d l.eretore advises fending another Minister:
Mr. Madison isfuggefled : There is no doubt with
the Aurora that he would be received with open
arms.
The Aurora is requested to inform us what ex
ifting circumftanees would render Mr. Madison
mote acceptable to the Directory than Mr. Pinck
ney ? Mr. Pinc kney has been always friendly to
the French nation ; it is true he is more friendly to
the independence of tke United States Will that djf
qualify him for the amicable negotiation ? So
seems to fay the Aurora. 1
A numerous cotmpa ly of Scotchmen having form
ed themselves into a Society by the name of the
SCOTCH THISTLE SOCIETY for the lau
dable purpose of relieving its members when in dis
tress, met and fubferibed their conftitu'ion and re
gulations on Tuesday the 24th inft. and elected the
following gentlemen to the officc6 affixed to their
n?mes, refpefti»ely.
Adam Davie, President.
Thomas Condie, Vice President, and Ptefident
«f the Council. v.
Adam Ramage "i
Andrew M'Alpin |
Alexander Knox j _
Jas. J. Denooo \ Council.
Andrew Wilson I
John Innes j
Wm. M'Phail, Treasurer.
David W tliace, Secretary.
t lnllitutions of this nature when jtidicioudy eon-
add to the general harmony and happiness
•f Society.
By this day's Mail.
CHARLESTON, December" 19.
On the return of their fellow citizen, THO
MAS PINCKNEY, from his Embassy to Great-
Britain, tbe inhabitants afTembled along the wharves
to fiail him wel ome. Fort Johnfton compliment
ed the (hip with a Fedeial Salute ; aad as (he pas
sed the new street continued along the bay, where
the old artillery was drawn up, the compliment was
Tepeated. The (hips at the wharves were throng.
«d, from which frequeut huzzas were reiterated.
Mr. Pinckney was landed with his family at
Blake's wharf. The carriages waiting for them
were nofooner noticed than (he jmpulfe of the mo
ment, suggested an honor as novel, as it could not
fail to be gratifying. The horses were taken off,
and the carriage for his reception wade ready to be
drawn by the throng, when it appeared that Mr.
Jinckney, taking advantage of the delay, ocrafi
ened thereby, had walked on. The cariiage how
ever followed him with celerfty, and he soon <was
prefTed to eriter it amidftthe applaufcs and gratnla
tloßi of thousands.
When he alighted at his house a little east of
Pinckney street, he returned his thanks to his fel»
low-citizens, for this testimony of their regard and
approbation of hie conduct while abroad in the fer
*ice of his country, in terms thai* once (trough
evinced his great lenfibility, and his gratitude for
such an unexampled le. eption.
. He then ran into the arms of his beloved filler;
and the clamour of his admirers giadnally died away
into murmuring wi(hes, that he might again enjoy
domefiic peace and happiness.
NORFOLK, January 16.
SatHrday arrived the Ihip'John, capt. Jennings,
65 days from St. Übes. Left at that place the
following Ameiicans. Ships Bethia, Jones, Ports
mouth, N. H.—Lydia, Blount, of do.— Ran
dolph, Grecnough, of do. -Qatherine, S'arhuck,
of New-L«ndon. The (hip James and William,
captain Wynnicot, and the brig Patty Wentworth,
captain Cowper, failed for Nortolk, 23 days before
the John. ■
LIST f Jtmcrican,Shtppirlg at Cadiz when theJhip
Fortitude, Captain Dyer, failed.
Ship Neutrality, B. Baiter, Boston
Elizabeth, J. B. Thurfton, Providence
Tamcfiajie, J. Worfley, Beverly
William Hetiry, A. Cazneau, Boston
Hercules, I. Bridges, do.
Andromache, S. Kingllon, Philadelphia
Friends Adventure, J. Caldwell, Baltimore
Alexandria, H. Bayue, Alexandria
Hope, Z. Knowles, New-York
Brig Maria, J. Lindfay, Marblehead
Mary, T. Dnny, New-York
A. Todd» do.
Ifabelte, J. Gibbs, —
Advem rr, W. Kidnclt, —
Schr. Industry, W. Main, Marblehead
Lydia, J. Hooper, 3 o.
BALTIMO RE, January 24.
Saturday arrived at Hawkin's Point, an entire new
brig from Boston, who spoke in lat. 36, long. 69, the
Slip Lydia, captain W. Todd, 55 days from Charles
ton, for Baltimore, in great distress for provifien of all
kinds. Capt. Todd said he (houldbear away for Ber
muda.
Arrived also, the brig Debby, Wyatt, Boston ; fchso
neriAident, ■ —, Cape Francois ; Theodore,
Boston ; Nancy, , Port-Royal, and a (loop from
Norfolk—all ef which made their way by cutting
through the ice for 7 miles fnu'e Friday morning, to
their prel'ent moorings, with t*e assistance of only 30
hands. •
Arrived on Wednesday last at Annapolis, the brig
antine Porga, captain James Philips, in »6 days from
Nafflu, {N. Providence,) with a (mail quantity of lig-
Jium vitae, James Corrie.—Captain Philips informs,
that when he left that port, the Britift were mak:ng
captures of, and detaining all the Spanilh vefleis they
could, and hail in the treasury, money to a great a
m«unt. At the time captain Philip' left Nassau, no
official,accounts had been received of a declaration of
war. * On his paflage, captain Philips spoke a brig
bound to Norfolk, name unknown, 72 days for Jamai
a - 45 jtf'°V!l e coaf> r' ,,r< " a fchßoner
Received by Capt in Philips.
Ut / da - 7 ' Ja " lo ' arrived ' 1 ,he Chtfapeake
l'"!!? bel «"Si»g to Mr. Peter Blight,
of Philadelphia, captain Joh ;i Campbell, 85 days
froml AmlMrdam. Capt. Campbell informs, that
„on the 18th December, in lat. 33, 30, N. long.
9> 3°> spoke ihe schooner Aurora, cantain
Ames of Bolton, from Deraarara, feound to Boston
who had mi board the mate and crew of the flnop
Ambuscade, belonging to Michael Clarke, of Phi
lauelphia, which was loft, and Mr. James Thomp
lon, fuper-car.ro died at Berbice, near Demarara ;
a ', ln 29,N " lo "g' 62 ' W - f P okc 'he ftip
Anel, of New-Bedford, from Amsterdam, bound
to New-York, who bore away for the Weft [1-
dies. In lat. 34, 30, N. long. 72, W. fell in
i with the fehr. Friendship, of Washington, with
: malts and spars (landing, all in good order; the
j crew to appearance fad abandoned her ; her foils
J were loft, a boat turned bottom upwards on her
j deck, with her larboard quarter stove in ; (he was
loaded with tar arid shingles, and water logged.
In lat. 3;, N. was brought to by the French
privateer aflive, who ordered capt. Campbell to
hoist out his boat, and come on board with his
paper., and after a drift search of them foffered him
to depart. To all appearance they were in a star
ving condition an board the privateer.
Captain Campbell informed captain Philips, that
he had 101 l Mr. Smith, hit second ma e (a rela
tion of Mr. Thorewgood Smith, of BaltimoreHn
a gale of wind, two weeks before he spoke him.
NEWFIELD, January 12.
Touched at the harbor's mouth ship Sally and
Bet fey, E. Hubbell, master, fiom the Weft-ln
diea bound toNew-Yotk.
NEW-YORK, J annary 25.
The following statement from the state treasury,
was read in the house of afferably on Tuesday the
' 17th inft.
Dr.
The ftatc of New-York, in account current with
Gerard Bantker, treasurer.
To amount of an account
of payment made since. the
31ft of December 1795, £.214,341 13 TI *
Balance now in the treasury 21,515 o 2j
£-235.8*6 14 1\
Contra Cr,
By balance due the state,
on a settlement of accounts,
on the 3iltef Dec. T79J £.134,207 19 16
Amount of an account of
receipts into the treasury,
tince the 31ft of Dec. 1795 101,64814 3
' , jC- 2 35.856 14 l
Errors excepted.
A gentleman arrived in town yesterday from a
few miles beyond Poughkeepfie, informs us, that
the mercury in Farenheit's thermometer at sunrise
had been 19 degrees below o. He also informs,
that 011 the night preceding this extreme weather,
two < hildren froze to death to their beds.
Henry Rofs, Charles Smith, and William Walk
er, hare deserted the corps of artillerists and en
gineers at Wett-Point. Ten dollars reward is of
fered for their apprehension.
On Monday the 16th inft. a carriage and four
horses, in attempting toerofs the river near Strat
ford ferry, Cannefticut, broke through the ice,
and the horses were drowned No human lives loft.
Died, lately, at Andover, Maflachufetts, that
good man and eminent Dr. Joseph Of
good.
Arrived at th'u Part. Days.
Ship Shepherdefe, Hand Savannah 7
Brig Venus, Griffin Havannah 26
Laik, Wooabridge Leogane 42
Sloop Lee Wilmington 12
It has been repeatedly said that the Spanilh ves
sels take American. We tl» not believe it. Spain
is on friendly terms with the United States. The
truth doubtless is, that the French do much as they
please in Spaiaifti ports in the Weft-lnaies, as they
do ;n Italy. They take and condemn American
vefleis. It will be recollected that the treaty be
tween France and Spain, jho offenfive and defen
five, is foonly in regard to certain powers—it does
not require Spain to wage wai with every power at
war with France. It does not require Spain to be
at war with the United States, even though France
fhou'id engage in hostilities with us. This, as far as
our recolle&ion extends, is the fatt in regard to that
treaty ; and it precludes all doijbt 011 the fubjeft of
a war with Spain.
Fifty-eight fail of American vefleis arc seized and
carried into Gonaives by French crnilers We nn
derftand the Bntifh (hips at Port au-Prince protest
the Araeiican trade, and often convoy American
vefleis out of the reach of the French cruisers.
The last fentenceof the Prelidents meflage to
the haufe of representatives, accompanying the do
cuments relative to P'rench affairs; is remarkable and
deserves notice. After aflignirig his motives for
fending Mr Pinckney, mimfter to Fra'nce, he*fays,
" a government which required only a knowledge
of the truth to juftify its raeafure3, could not but
be anxious to have this, fully and frankly displayed."
That cautious officer, the President, would not
have let such an exprellion fill from his pen; with
out fatisfaftory evidence, that some persons, hollile
to our government, have been attempting to mislead
the French Directory.
The merchants in Philadelphia have petitioned
the lej;iflature for a law 10 nnake notes of hand ne
gotiable. All the banks have also sent in petitions
foi the fame purpefe.
Mr. Lcib moved 111 the legifla'.ure to introduce
a claufe'into the bill for making notes negotiable,
prohibiting the taking more than one half percent,
a month for difceunting notes. Referred to a com
mittee of five.
It is aftonifliing, at this period of the wo ld,
that such prohibitions can have advocates. The
way, and weafTert; the only way to prevent the
mouftrous premiums now paid for money, and
which draw all the spare money of the
•country trum regular bufiriefs into fjolijh prsjeits,
is to refill all such prohibitions. A limit all re
paints on the nfe of moltey, and the common rate
of interest will not remain eighteen months above
5 per cent What did a!> America fay of the sol-
Iv o i regulating prices during the war ? Fnrtunare
iy the laws were soon violated, or we {hould alt*
have perilhed with cold and hunger France had
recourse to the fame (illy projeift in tbeirlaw of the
maximum and that far enforcing the circulation of
affignatj. The consequence of these laws wat, u
nivcrfal want and dijlrefs. France was upon the
verge of a famine. Th? cause wa» difcevered—
the regulating lawi repealed, and France was abun
dantly supplied.
The laws againlt usury in this country, are the
principal cause of high interefi. They create the
very evil intended to be remedied.
When powder was scarce, during our war, the
flatei did nor fix the price—they bid a bounty. Im
mediaiely mills were built, and vefTels loaded wilh
powder, entered our ports. Powdei was as cheap
as ever.
In regard to money, people, who want it, bid
the bounty. Legiftatutet have nothing to do, but
te let it alone.
We understand the sales of land, by the United
States, have produced about 60,000 dollars.
» 1
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Mora/, Critical 9 and Entertaining,
Mr. F E N N E L L
Refptdtfully informs the Public, that
THE EVENING, Thursday, Jan. 46, at 7 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
(FIRST PART)
On Modesty, , Spt3nt»r
On Cheerfulnefs, ditto
On, Sincerity, Tillotfon
( SECOND PART)
Celadon and Amelia, Tkomfon
Jufiioand fheaiia, Grainier
Lessons of Wiltom, Armjlrong
*»{third part.)
On Taftti, Aktnjtdc
Pleasures arising fr®m a cultivated imagination, ditto
The pain arising from virtuous emotions attend
ed with pleasures, d,/to
On FRIDAY, Jannary 27,
Will be delive?ed,
An Essay on the Means of Improvement is Eloquence,
including lelsftions from Dr. bldir.
After which will be recited, an Allegorical Poem, in
two parts, sailed
THE CAVE OF NATURE ;
Or a Piifture of the Virtues, Vices, Paflions and At
tributes of the Human Mind.
ift Part,
Containing a Defection of \
The Care of Nature, Jultice,
Anger,
Hope, Helitatian,
Joy. Guilt,
Envy, Repentance.
id Part.
Domestic Love, Eloquence,
Happinefe, Ambition,
Jt-aloufy, Peace,
Kivcnge, Liberty,
Charity, Universal Happiness.
— V
On SATURDAY, January 18,
The Progrifs and £fft<as of Revenge and Jealousy,
traced and exemplified in the charters of Zanga
and Othello, with recitations oi the molt striking
pairages is each.
Tickets to be bad of Mr. Poulfon, jua. at the Library ;
atmr. M'Elwee's looking-ghii's-ltore, N». 70, S. Aurth
ilreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Booki'oller, Market-street—
Hall a dollar each.
To be Sold by Public Vendue-,
On Saturday, the ißtn January, at the Merchants'
Coffee-Houfe,
A N O T E,
Drawn by William Burgif, and Co. of South
ThirJ-ftreet, near Market-street, Linen Drapers, in
favour of Robeit Burgifs, jun. or order, for 600
dollars. 'I he said Note beeame due the 30th Dec.
lalt, and was proielted for non-payment.
For approved notes at 66 days.
January 26 3
All Persons having Demands
Againlt- the Estate el -the late I komas Franklin,
decea.ed, aie delired to bring in their accounts for
settlement; and ihofe indebted to make immediate
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, ") „
WALTER FRANKLIN, or £ Exctu "
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, ) tor »'
January 14th, 1796. cozw
Notice.
THE Advertifcr is a person regularly bred, and has
carried 00 in an extensive manner for these 30 years
pad,the various branches of Goldsmiths' and Jew
ellery, plated and hard-ware Cwlery, and Ironmonge
ry bufinefe, and has general knowledge of the Dry
Good and many other bufmefles. He has a particular
taste for building, has built txtenfively so himfelf,
has condu&ed buildings for others, and is of opinion
that his iervices to any gentleman that might be in
went of a person to candudt any of the aforefaid bufi
neflis, would not onlj be ufeful but ail acquisition, as
he will engage 011 liberal terms, either as a falrfman
or to fell on commiflion as an agent, a<?t as a partner or
take the care of a manufaaory, or superintend build
mg, &c. He is a married man, and having no family
but his wife who would aft as a falefworoari or houle
keeper. No objeAion to any part of the Southern
states, or to take a voyage to Europe as a fupereargo.
A line direfled to J. C. to the care of the printer,
will be pnndtually attended Jo.
N. B. He is well acquainted with most of the Eng
lilb, Irish, and Se.oteh manufa(slories,,as he carried on
business for ten years in London, but on account of
unavoidable misfortunes in his country, he is now for
ced to teek for a living for himfelf aud wife in this
way, and he flatters himfelf that be will give entire
fuisfatf.ion to his employer. And as he is well known
in this city, and to the most refpeaable eharaSers on
the coutineni, doubts not but his charaaer, morality
and indefatigable industry, will btar th* ftrtAeft en
quiry
Dm. 28. tawtf
List of Psizes and Blanks in the
Wafhiugton Lottery, No. 11.
56th Ways Drawing, January 14.
No. Dots. No. Dots. ' No o,ls, No. Dots.
5a 10 1280S 10 24419 33702
387 880 10 515 10 ' 788 *
t916 JO 13044 818 10 39975
22°2 313 25637 40377
374 409 26057 917
783 561 - 870 41165
804 10 17189 185 i*
996 X43°4 242 449
3014 10 489 585 823 IO
5 2 7 808 10 28078 20 838 20
49®4 809 824 10 42217
J471 " 873 ■ 933 340
997 *5575 29162 10 425 10
6436 10 922 364 10 538 10
958 20 16103 509- 862
7184 23 1 ro 30x91 43766
321 334 19 194 494
507 10 17406 50 415 513
6oi 10 644 475 to 9SI xo
765 10 19630 518 44113
983 10 893 3xoßß 283
8311 20 20193 10 576 in
341 xo 590 ' 648 893
829 658 i* 693 45210
9®xx 10 *1046 313*8 489 to
111 xo 052 33103 XO 753
206 63S 843 46073 is
300 »2ici 34076 Xa 440
94t 10 163 307 io sIX
10066 234 812 4707®
415 568 10 35293 20 171
752 xo 853 414 398
11577 866 500 36178 689 10
593 23012 i* 195 933
6»7 05• 308 ie 49317
934 r» 200 418 io- 57%
12072 \ . 853 885 10
315 14111 37616
57th Days Drawing, January i&.
Nt. Dels. No. Dtlt. No. Dots No. Dots.
54 10 13056 28672 38329
47* 10 14375 29120 »o 344
1006 907 595 378
609 ro 16439 to 770 521
752 702 xo 857 560
2451 17420 941 618
475 • 824 30154 xo 3925'
692 861 320 x« 40057 10
3417 19017 833 600
4207 10 331 10 31809 640
5800 641 10 32319 4*393 10
6756 20708 xo 519 690
7325 XO 77J 10 33545 952
400 21261 20 34554 43665
8403 22487 10 763 10 807 10
564 xo 931 xo 35x49 *o 855 10
887 935 —359 44963
♦ 395 23482 "l7f 46111 10
938 640 381 457 xo
10586 *4904 IO {42 715
784 25321 Sls 5» 47®i»
11020 26211 37013 10 160 la
836 334 xo 388 48379 «•
12659 654 20 915 ro 625
732 27875 ,3803 110 49023
Just Published,
And to be Sold by T. BRADFORD, No. 8, South
Frorit-ftrert,
A new pra&ical system of
HUMAN REASON.
Divested of all metaphyseal incomprehensibility,
and founded on conceivability alone, as efficient
'o all the purposes of human existence, the discovery
of universal tiuth and nniverfal good.
" Mind nukes the man, and of it the fellow:
" Mind is all worth; the reft i« all prunella."
By JOHN STEWART the Traveller.
Janmry 26
Wants a Situation,
As a Housekeeper, an English woman, completely
qualified in every refpetSl to keep a Gentleman's House.
Enquire of the Printer.
January 26
CAMILLA, ~ ""
Or A Pi&ure of Youth.
By the authorefe of Evelina and Cecilia, to be cora
prifed in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable
on delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
Bull.
coNDrnoNs.
I. Handsome, neat type, perfe&l/ new, it era
ployed.
IT. A volume, stitched in blue paper, it intended
to be pubiiftied every 2 weeks, till the five are com
pleted 1 the firft and second are come to hand, and the
third is hourly expected. Subfcriptiens are received,
and Books may be had of J. OKMROD, No. 41,
Chefnut-ftreet-
Mrs. D'Arblsy (late Mlfs Burney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the laurels (he hat already acquirer' in the
; literary world. The lirength of imagination and ele
gance of style, displayed in Eveline and Cecilia, will
fufficiently lecommtnd to every reader of taste and
judgment, the petufal of Camilla.
It may not be improper to add, that the Queen of
England, after having perused this interefting'publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thoufund
pounds sterling, as a teflivnouy of her approbation of
the work.
Januory 25 eotf
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third fbreet,oppofite the national new BanWl
SAMUEL M FR UNCES and JOHN VAN REEDj
have entered into co-partnerftiip, under the firm of
FROUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Comfltiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commifiion every species of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Monet procured 011 deposits, &c. &c. all kinds of
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most correA manner. Comlant attendance will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Phflad. August 27, 1796. m&w\f
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
Company,
January 6, J797.
At a meeting of the President and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollars per ihare, was declared for the
last half year, which will be paid to the Stockholders,
or their reprefcntatives any time after the 21ft ef tbie
month.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
. Jan. 6. _ xaw4W
UwtfSamuel Richardet
I) ESPECTFULLY ;informs the Gentlemen
* Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS GOTESEHOUSE iu the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subfcriptiop Room will be furnilhed with all the
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
mercial citi«« of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be t&ken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual
wiU at all times procured at the bar.
Gentlemen "may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors from London and ether breweries.
T*he Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, ov finale Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation *.s
regularly kept for convenieffcy, th« Billof Fare to be had
at the .bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhpd, and
the utmost attention paid to cteanlinefs, and every other
requisite.
£3* Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelt that nothing on his part fhallbe wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifti
ingly Honored. ,
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AWAY from the subscriber on the 23d October,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; at years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high; had on a mi-xsd green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ;
a striped.veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the subscriber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 ;.lmaawtf
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Season,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers placs, 12
miles on the Briflol Road, where good stabling is pro
vided, and great care will be taken of them
William Bell.
Nov. 13. mwfzwmthtf.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeffional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which for several years past have in so diftinguiihed a
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the most extensive collec
' tion cf the latest EngWh and Irilh Editions ever imported
into this country, are pablifhed, and will be delivered gratis
on application.
Orders addrcfted to G. D. in writing'from any distance
fhallbe pun&ually attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Market.Street Wharf.
ov.B. tll&fjW
City of Walhington.
SCHEME of the LOTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) so,ooo dollars, & 1
dwelling-house, 5 "ft 30,000, are J ' ' 00 ®
I ditto 15,000 & eafli 25,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,060 & cash 15,000 30,000
j ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 io,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
1 caih prize of 10,000
t do. 5,000 each, are - 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
oa do. 100 • • 10,009
100 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 do. to - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 • >5«,980
16,739 Prizes.
3j,a6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 (follars will be the la st drawn
ticket, andtjie 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
•r prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received foi
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be credted in the City of Walhington—
Two beautiful designs are already Icleited for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofed toereel two centre and four comer buildings,
as soon as poliible after this lottery is fold, and to eonvey
theAi, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the tcheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedu6tion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &Cw"aud the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Univerlity, to be erected within the city of Walhington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.— i'he money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is ftnilhed ; and any prizei for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is.closed, are to be considered as given towards
the fnni for the Univerlity ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take np the bonds given as security.
The red fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners afiifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk 1
- second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficient num
j;r of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
iends to a National Univerlity and the other federal ob- '
jests ipay continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the didertnt p»rt« of the
Continent as well as from Europe,'where the tickets 1
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the 1
drawing will speedily commence, and that i> care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe dilpofal .of
th» tickets, has rendered the inor indifoenlable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of.
James Well & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Bolton :
of John Hopkins, Rkhniond ; and of Richard Wells
Ceoper's Ferry. «e
| FOR SALE, i
About i,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marfti
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four i'eparate Patents. For terms of sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, Smith Second-ftrset
January 26. mwW
WM. HAY DON,
Drawing-Master, from London,
Where he has studied several years under one of
the most eminent mailers in that fcietice, attends
young Ladies and Gentlemen at their refpeflivehomes.
His terms are 6 dollars per month fur attendance three
times per week. Xikewife all kinds of ornamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, &c. taught on the above
terms. A line dire&ed to W. H. lei's with the Editor
i of this Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
eoivr
i A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, fitruate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almott new,
i on an entirely original conilruftton, and built of the best
materials, ami may be set to work immediately. Persons
; who wish to purchase, are requeued to apply at No *73,
Sourh Second Street. September 13. t t f tf
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized by an aflentitled
" An aft to enable the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah navigation, to raise, by
, way of Lottery, the film of Fcur Hundred Thouiand
1 Dollars, for the purpose of pompleting the works, in
their a<Ss of incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
r Prize of twenty thousand dollars, so,oo®
1 of ten choufaud dollars, ip,ooo
5 of four thouiand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofleiTors of the five
numbers firlt out of the wheel on the last
day 's drawing, at which time there {hall
not be less than 506 numbers undrawn, j®,eco
10 of two thousand dollars each, so,ooo
29 of one thousand doljars each, 20,000
43 office hundred dollars eath, 11,500
100 of two hundred dollars each, »e,ooa
mo of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
12a of fifty dollars each, I 1,000
29,500 of five dollars each, 14;,<00
iojomo Tickets at ten dollars each> 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time of sale.
All prizes (hall be paid ten days after the drawing is
finilhed, upon the demand of the poiTefior of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeifl to a deduction of fifteen per «ent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12 months
after the Drawing is finifhed, of which public notice
will be given, lhall be conlidercd as relinquilhed tor
the use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal Navigation—and
the President aad Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
Resolved, That Joliiph Ball, John Stelnmctz, Stan
difh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and direifl the mode of dilpofing of the
tickets ; which committee lhall deposit tile money in
Bank, to be carried to tlje credit of an *ccount to be o
pened far the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16, '97,
Refolvedj That the committee for coudu&ing the
Lottery be diredted te commence the jdrawjng on the
firit day of March next.
J£xtra<3 from the rtuHutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary,
Jofepb Ball,
John Steinmelz,
Siandifi Forde,
Francis Wejl, Managers.
James M'Crea,
Jehu Miller, jun. j
William Montgomery, J
Jan- *®. thScf.tf
THIS day is published,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the ease and convenience c»f merchants
i« general; but particularly tor tliofe who are ex
tensively concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, al! the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the eouife of the whole year,
for each month feparatively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
the mode now in use, of fele&ing the bills due in
each month from the promiscuous entries of several
months. To which is prefixed,
able fliewing the number of days froos any day
any n-.onth, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January 2 tawtf
Walhington Canal Lottery,
N®. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifeoi
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose <?f cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, froxi th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz *i Prize of 30,000 dollar*, 30,00*
1 dkto 10,000 10,000
7 last draw® 7
Tickets, each j sfio ° 3 5,000
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
30 ditto 100 ' a,ooo
55 ditto 50 2,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,15®
5850 Prizes, *75,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, • 175,000
X he Commiflioners have taken tbc Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aist for the punctual payment oi
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as ioon as tfv Tickets are fold, "of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th<-
drawing is fmifhed, lhall be confidertd as relinquished for
the benefit «f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG, "
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
[AMES BARRY.
Cit of Wafbington, Feb. 11. J
For. Sajle
By private coat rail, a very val-jabh Efiate, lcnoivn by
the panic sf
CHATHAM,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank of Rap
pahar.ock river, opposite the town of Fredenckfburg, in
the state of Virginia, coafiiling of eleven or fifteen hun
dred acres, as may best suit tf*e pur chafer. rhere is on
this estate, a large and well built - brick house, contain n£
nine commodious rooms, cxclufiveof a spacious hall or en
try, 21 feist pair of itairs, suitable and conven
ient piffaget, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine herdthv eminence, commanding beautiful views in
every direction over the towns of Frederickfburgh and
Falmouth, and an extensive country.—The
grounds adjoining the house are "neatly laid out in pieaf
ure -end kitchen gardens interspersed with a variety of
fcaree trees, achoicc colle&ion of flowers aHd flowering
shrubs, and enriched by various ibrts of the following
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, chefnuts, ehe'rries,pcach
, e«, plumbs, nediarines, apricots, grapes, figs, rafberries,
gooseberries, ftrawberries,and currants; the whele admi
rably varied by-turfed fl*pes wll4ch have been formed by
great labour ana expence. Bordering up»n these im
provements, are several lots, in a highftate of .cultivation,
and well set with red clover and orchard graft, from
which three heavy erops of hay are taken every year. Ad
' jacent thereto are two large and flouriftiing orchards; one
of well chosen peach trees, the other of apple and pear
trees, fele&edfrom the belt nurseries in the {late. Pro
perly detached from the mansion house are extensive
roomy offices of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
harder, house-keeper's room and Laundry, with a cellar
- underneath for a variety of purposes, a ftore-toufe and
[ smoke houfc all of brick, a dairy and spring house of ftonc.
, Stables for thirty horses, an«l coach houses for four car
riages. Also a large and well planned farm yard, m ith
barn and granary, a cow house, wit>h separate stalls for
( thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals,
muttons and lambs extensive sheds for sheep, and other
arrangements for stock of every description, with a large
and convenient receptabie for provender, from which they
can'be furnifhed without being exposed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's fliop,
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best man
ner more than fifty labourers.
The arable lands are f® advaptageoufly divided as to af
ford an opportunity of making a large quantity of Indian
(Corn annually, without bringing the field into similar cuU
tare oftrier than once in four years; consequently the
lands may be improved by keeping up the inclofures during
the intermediate years, or may be beneficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
On the premjfes there is also a merchant mill with one
pair of best French burr f tones, and one pair of Cologne;
furnifhed with modern machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired term oi four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
grain for the use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly 1 001. more. The mill and miller's house are built of
free stone, within a very small distance of navigation, near
to which are two or more valuable lifheries, and a well
accustomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
Frederickfburg. The land contains inexhaustible quarries
of free stone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water and poUeffes a due proportion of
meadow, which the command of water may
be conliderably increafcd. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel andfociable. Infant, exclullvc of
an improveable and well condit ; oned farm, the value and
emolument inseparably conae&cd witn a mill, ferries,
fiiheries and queries eligibly situated ; the profits ari£ng
from an ice-house inferior to none in the ftatc, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetables
j ofjail forts as to fully equal to the demand in market,
th-re might be detailed many other advantages, apper
taining to the fertility of these lands, which the fubferiber
conceives it nnneceffary to mention, being fully convinced
thr.t when examined, it will be found to be a complete,
pleasant and healthy refiddnce, possessing beauties and
conveniences fufficient to attra&the attention of any per
son defireusof becoming apurchafer. 1
The motive/which induces the fubferiber to offer for
sale an eftatefo Angularly beautiful and advantageous, is
a riefire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more ease attend to his infcerefts in the neigh
bourhood of that city
The pnrchafer may be aeeommodatedwith a few slaves
in families, either for plantation or domestic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balance
made easy, the debt being properly secured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
Chatham, (Virg.) Dec. 19, 1796. nth— aawam*
" TO BE SOLD,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Glducefter, and state of New-Jetfey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
gceat part of the arable land is in a high ftatc of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover.
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick houife,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
| the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
heufe, The garden is large, and contains a good colle.c
tion of the bell kinds of grafted and inoeulated fruit trees ;
the orchar<Jeonfiftsof about three hundred grafted apple
trees. Any person inclined to purcbafe said premiles, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
July 29 F
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his finccre thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his refidrnce in thi> City, and
flattershimfelf that the success of his effoitj, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and rccemmendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious pr^mifes, ereibed for the
purposes above drferibed are open for the reccfjon of pupils
of either sex, who wish 10 be mftruited in the Art us: Ridirta*
and the right method of governing their horles, so as to ride
them with eale, eiegance, and (afety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditioully broke, for eveiy purpose, and
made obedient tot he will bi the riders ; the natural powers
wliich are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every diforJer to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inftkution has never been qneftion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
stud will manifefl, and T. Swasn as the ftilk eflablifher of
the veterenary art, folieits a*d relies upon the fuppoitof thai
public (which he icever anxious in serving) to enable him to
btiogit to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish to
promote the institution—the amount of each fub-fcription to
be returned by services in any of the departments he profefTes
agrceable to the rate of charges slated in his hand bill. Such
fubJcription is now open, and the signatures of many relpeft
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore informs bis
friends and furh Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he shall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and foljcking their support
and protc&ioD.
N 8,. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies acid
$entlemenwho wish to be loftrulted.
Nov. ${ ttbjScf.
Nov. i<
Lottery and Broker's' Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
rKCKETS 10 the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—l
Check Book tor examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Cheek Books kept for examination and r giftering, for
the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information wh ne
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel :md Public School Lottery, for
examination. 4
The fub&ciber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bill* of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
•See. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
*#* Also 1 ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten D«ll*rs each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January i 6, 1796. ' mth
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE ishcreby given, that proposals will be r«r
ceived at- the office of the Secretary of the Frsofurf
until the expiration of the firfl day of March neit en.
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he rcq-uired
for the use of the United States, from the firfl day of
June, 1797, to the, thirty-firll day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftri&s hire
after mentioned, via;. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Pjefque 1 Ae; at Sandufky Lake, and 011 Sandufky
tyiver; at Detroit; at Michilimuckinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittlburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton j
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefterfon ;at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort MafTac ; at auy plaee from Fort MafTac
to the south boundary oi\the United States on the river
Miffifippi ; -at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies (hall be required for any poils or places Hot
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies (hall be fur
nished at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or tnay be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contra&or.
The rations to be supplied arc to conflfl of the fol
lowing articles, vi 2.
One pound two ounces of bread «r flour.
One pound two auntao of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of £alt.~\
Two quarts hf Vinegar, ( ,
Two poinds of Soap, ( P er hun <*"d ration.
One pound of Candles, j
The rations are to b« furnifhod ijilnch quantities, as that
there shall at all times during the said term, be fullicieat
for the coufumption of the troops at MichiHmackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month', in
advance, and at each of the other ports, for the terin of
at least three months in advance, in good an d wliolefomc
provifiens.if thefame shall be required. 11 is to be unj
derftond, that the is to be at the exyence and
rifle o! iffuirgthe supplies to the troops at each poll, and
that all loflcs fuflaincd by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, shall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or deftroysd, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable chit.
ra<9ers, and the ccrtifieate of a commiffioncd officer, as
certaining the eircumftances of the loss, and the amount
of the articles for which aompenfaeion shall be claimed
OLiyER WOLCOTT,
Seoretary of the Treasury.
By Authority.
Schuylkill' Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 6f,
South Second-Jtrcet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For rtifing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
the Leg flaturc of Pennfylvaaia, parted doting the la.t
feflion, tor building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the Coufcty of
Berkt - ' Dollars.
1 Ptiite of 20,000 Dollars . . 20,0c®
1 do. of te,ooo do. - - j0,003
3 do. of 5,000 do. * , . j 5 ,000
4 do. of a,OOO do. . . 8,000
*0 do. of 1,000 do. . . so,oo»
39 do. of 500 do. - . 19,50 a
80 do. of 206 do. . . . 16,009
»oo do. of- i»o do. . »0,008
3®° do - of S° do - - 15,000
1 do. of 500 do. to be paid the posses- >
for j f the firik drawn no. J
4 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid polTelfors ;
of the five last drawn nos $ 'J> c0 ®
9,400 do. o 1$ do, : • 14^,000
•0,054 Priies 300,000
>9,94(5 Planks —
30.500 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing i»
finifhed, upon the demand of a pofleflor of a fortunate
picket, fubjeft to a deduflion of twenty per cent. Thf
Drawing will commence as foonas the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps looner. of which public notice will be given,
Philifi Miller, Pcltr Kerjhncr, William Witman,
Jvfeph Hicjlcr, Jsmes Dtemer, Thomas Dundas,
Jamet May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
Seiajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, a 796.
Titkets in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
above ofliee, where the earliest information of the draw
ing of the Washington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and cheek books for examination and regif
teringare kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery to be had at Mr, Sheri
dan's Rjice-flreet, John Hay, North Third-ftrect and
Henry Sweyer's, German Town.
Januray 26 aawtf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
A r o. J, South FourthJlrcet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to ;'M»
Friinds and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors. '
He has on hand an extensive affortntent of the
Mofl Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable for the season.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furniihed withthe' fcgft
materiifs, ajid have th »i made up in the neatefl and most
Fashionable manner, and on the shortest notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pnnvflual to 'them.
November I©. Ws
g "" " 1 to*
PRINTED BY JOHN
—No. 119^ —
CHESNUT-STXEKT.
[Pricc Eight Dollars p«r Anniitt),]