of tfje UttB 9 and -Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
Dumber V 557 "j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS,
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. j6>
J>Undai' f au t|» Front-.ftreet,
J ") Afternoon—Footman & Co; No. 6j
C South Front-ftrctt.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, (lid City
<r u .rj. lv j Auiftion, No. jg foufh Front-street. I
1 Afternoon—Will;3m Shannon, No.;
C 18.; High-street.
Weduefday \ aenfon ' No " 74
) south Third-ftrcet.
Thursday \ forenoon— Edward Fox.
{ Afternoon—John Connelly.
Prijat ? Forenoon—William Shannon.
) Afternoon —John Connelly.
Snt'trnaf Afternoon—'Peter Benfon.
United States, 1 rr
Pennsylvania Diftrift. J
IN pursuance of a writ to me directed from the
honorable Richard Peters, Esq. fudge of the
DHhiot Court of the United States in and for the
Pennfylvr.nia Di&riit, will be exposed to Public
Sale, at the Merchants* CofFee-Ijoufe, in the city of '
Philadelphia, on Mowdav, the eleventh day of
September next, at 12 o'clock at noon,
;X~3Lri The Brigantine, callid the
liSp MARIA,
& with all and Angular the tackle, ap
»3iSSi4j*l,are' an< ' furniture as they now are ;
the f:ud Brigantine having been condemned to pay
Mariners wages, &t.
Wm. NICHOLS, Marjhal.
Marthal's Office,
Augull itj, 1797- J
N. B. The Inventory may be seen at my Offi ee
~~ For HAMBURGH,
r I 'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
Mlkir- I"' A ▼ O R I T E, John
Thompson, Miller, now at
Bright'* wharf, and will be rea
v. •.. C 'T to take in on Monday next,
' part of her cargo being engaged
and ready to go on board. The ship is to well
Jcnown, that it'is needless to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, please to applv at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. 12, North Third street,
or to the Ma£er on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On beard the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, aflorted
Hollow and Window Glass, Demyjokns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of 1 & 1
Quality. Please to apply aj above.
wfJcm4w
White Havanna Stigar.
1461 boxes fc of very fuperiorquallty now difcharg
-7 t hhds. ) ing from the (hip HamUurgh Packet,
at Walnut Stre»t wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nicklin & Co.
N. B.
V—«s. TBI SHIP
Hamburg Packet,
/' Silas Swain, Matter,
Gale, or Charter.
Aug. 24. eotf
SALES,
THE Commiflioners of the counties of Ly
coming and Northumberland, have piven- -
notice that they intend to prfleeert to thr nig" of ,
lands, for the »rrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next. 1 ■' ■
The mjfrrenr printers in this eity will
render an eflential service to a great number of
individuals by pubhlhing this notice.
Aug. 18.
FOR SALE,
BRETAGNES in cases
German Checksin do.
Cambrick
PLattillas
Oznabri gs
Qold and filvcr Watches
Window Giafc 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in oases
Linfccd Oil in casks, &c. See.
George Ptnnock,
103, High-Sir eft.
Jnly 5. .<aw
NOTICE,
IF I*ll edt O.'Hara, whofome years since kept
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marihal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, Lvom whom he will receive iu
terefting ifi format! on.
August 4. mw&f4w
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Assignees of james greenleaf,
HEREBY give notice, that thejr have disposed
of the properly afligned to them tor the securing
the payment of the notes acceptances, and en
titlements given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the said James Greenleaf; and the holders of.
such notes, acceptances, and endorlements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fottle
with them for the amount of their refpetSlive
claims, botli principal and interest, at
any time berore the asth day of Oflober next;
jfter which.dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to th« terms of aflign
pient.
Applications to be made at foath-eaft corner
»f Dock and Second flreets (the Dock-ilreet
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
<«lock every day, Sunday" excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Frant'u,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baler.
Philadelphia, AuglS, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Diftri£t
of Southwark,
ft RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
£x kept at the Constables' office, the north east
corner of Front and Almond ftretts, where the
friends of those sick persons who deflre to be re
moved to tht City Hospital, arc requested to make
application —Alio, a Hearse will b« kept in readi-
Yiefs for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
jj. B. The Poor,, who wist to remove to the
Tents on Sfhuylkill, may be furnifh.'d with ordess
by applying-as above. 4 : 's* *9
PHILADELPHIA:. TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 5, 1797
BLOOMSBURY.
To be Sold at PUBLIC SALE,
ON I'riday, the eighth day of September
inft. between the hours of twelve and five
o'clock in the afternoon, at the houft of Wm.
Kay, iakeeper, in Trenton, in the State, of
Ncw-Jei'ftv, tl»at eleeant firat called BLOttMS
BURY, the i'eat of the late John Cox, Esq.
with the appurtenanc«s ; containing
400 acres of Land, with a suitable proportion
jof arable, meadow, and wOod land. The prin
• cipal mansion houle is within a half a mile of
| TrentOn, and on the river Delaware. Thefitu
ation and improvement of this efiate is such as
to be worthy the attention of any gentleman
wishing to retire from the eity.—The terms
will Iff made easy, as a,great part of the pur
chase money may remain in the hands of the
purchaser for a liberal term of credit, on giv
ing fatisfacflory security Attendance will be
given on behalf of the fubferibers, who can
make an title for thepremifes.
• EJlher Com,
John Stevens,
Matthias Barton.
September 2. dtjth
i 1
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Uitto ditto Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Ruadle & Leesh. '
Aug. at. iswtf
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LA ROE 3 ?tonv Urick House, on tlte
South fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Njnth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and f{et deep,
the lot 1 it feet deep, with the privilege of 1 nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a-thirty feet wide Court so- Carriages
to turn in. The House it not and ,
may be turned either into »ne, or two dwelling |
Houses. It is suitable for a large Manufactory, !
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
poflefiion will be given,
Apply to No. lit, Chefnut-Street.,
Ang. ir. cod4t.
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP ?
A Light WAGGGN almost new, witha frame—
and a pair of haraefn (Englith collars) hat never
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 handt high, seven yeart .Id—and a
new chair, with a tailing top and harness— 310.
Enquire No. 331, Market-street.
August 84. diw
This Day Published,
Andtebe fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut ilreets,
Prie: 3of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the ch -kg* op bpeculatiov aeainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late StCMTAPf of the Tsiamjr, » FIHAY
REFUTED.
IT KIT TIN BT Ml MS lit.
This publication prefentt a coticife ftatemeyit
of the bale meant pra&ifed. by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charaflcrs of v|iofc
ptrfons who are considered as hostile to their difor
gaiiizing fchemet. *lt alf*> containt the cor-
bpfwrrp and \teiTrt.
Muhlenburgh pndVenable, onthefub
"jeift of the documents aforejaid, and a feriet of let
ter* from Jamet Reyn«ldji and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyood the possibility of a doubt,
thr.t the connctflion between him and Reynoldt,
w m the result of a daring eonfpiracy on the part
of.' the latter and hi; affociatet to extort money.
fjP A difcouut of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ol wholesale purchafcrs, for
qash. Orders t* be addrelTed to Mr
Aypu/l 85.
The Norfolk Mail STAGIi.
THIS Stage ftarta from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of SecoHd and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, rvcry TutfJjy, Ttuifiay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the troreing ; arrives at Do
ver the firftday, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day,' and 011
the morning of the fourth day the paflengtrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampt#n fetry,
every Thurfday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
MonJay, Wodnefday and Friday ;|put» up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dovtr the 8d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediltanee on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is Jo miles less than on any stage route
between those place*.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeod. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route, 1
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America. '
August 11. dim. eotf.
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferibers," corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June 81. e*tf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for Vale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-ftrect,
Hyson
Hyson Skin' CfEAS
Young Hylon C
Imperial J
April 2Q. • f o*f
Chocolate and Mullard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shdled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Be<r, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by thii pipe, quarter-cask or gallon—suitable
for exportation or homeconfumption—
For Salt-by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
MRS. G RATTAN
INFORMS her fri.'ndy.nd tby ;>ublic in general,
that her hpufe, No. 193, Market-street, will con
tinue open duri'ir the sickness.
I Board and' Lodging in a f'parate room, ten
bollars, i;i a double room, ucht dblmiis.
I For the convenience of. those gentlemen who
have not their amilies in town, Mrs. Ghattav
ill reciive gentlemen to dine at iiAi.ru hollar
■"-■ day. A"vi'/t 80 —6t
T O BE
And pojejion given immediately,
A LARGE two story brick Hr,ii(V,handfomeJy
situated in Princetoa There are four rooms
and a large entry 011 each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings jj feet 111
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an exeelleut kitchen gardep, at the
farther end-os which are a cjrriagc house and two
(tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for 87 horses. The heal
thiness and pleafantncfs of its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnef* of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of ;
the stables, make it every suitable for a tavern, for
which it has always been considered as a capital
fta.ad. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN, jwn.
PriocUon, Ang. 85 , 89 —dlwßawdf
COUGHSrCOLDS7ASTHMAS,and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jull received, by Wm. Griffiths,N©u X77,South
Second-street, e frejh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of lioney,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(v.'ho knowledge as aßotanift procured liim
the appellation of the Litinxus of Britain) and it
eonfidered in England as a ttriam tmt for the above
complaints; it is also of Angular eficuey in the
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stoces, No.
61, South Second street, and T. Snrr, jj, New
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Gkiffitus having observed the happy ef
fect of the medicine, (several cafetof curet hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it hat induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he has just received.
i. lawjw
A Cook wanted.
A W"OMAN w'/io underllands the bulinefs and
e«n bring good recommendations, m»y find employ
and receive generous waget by applying at No. 6j,
north Se»enth-fli-eet.
<5- *3t
Wanted to purchale,
A pair of. stout, well broke Horfee, young and
found, inquire at Mr. Ocllert' Hotel, Chofnut
flreet.
Application must be made immediately.
■August is *3#
l"nfuranceCompany\pf North America.
THE Stockholders in this company are here
by informed, that, pursuant to the fifth
ciaufe of their Charter, and Jt the request of a
" Number of Stockholder*, who, together, ate
proprietors of Six Thoufaad Share., vjr
war*»," a general jneAtiag of the Stockholder!
will be lrcta-at"ifie Conapsny't Office, on Mon
day the 85th day of September next, at 11
o'clock, A. M. for the piirpofe of filling up a
vicancy in their Direction j and taking info
Lonfideration such Regulations or Bye Laws as
may beprefented in conformity with the Char
ter of Jncorpnrition.
EBEN. HAZARDy See'ry.
July io. wScftSi?
The Paftnerfhip,
UNDER the firm «f FREEMAN tS* Company,
is diflolved by mutual content. All persons
having any demands agaihlt the said Houfo arc de
fied to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom bufinds will in future be
cat/ied on, at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street
AunuH 7 eod4W
PETER BORGER,
TNFORfyJS his friends and the public in general
L that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Areh and Fourth, to No. 10S North Front, be
tween Arch and Raceftrects.
July f. Baw4W
Rofs Sim/on,
UA V S FOR SALt
T Hoglhead*,
Kxcelleat Coffse in < Tierces, and
C. Barrels.
A small parcel of nice cocoa in bagg
1 few puncheons Jamaica fpirita, fourth proof
Superior TenerifFee wine, eld and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery t» be fold by
the package
A few hampers best Englifli cheeGa.
July 17. dtf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper thVn any other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to Jg by 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be bad at the
Store of the Subscribers, corner of Areh and Front
llreet.
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, Juneg, 1797.
This Day is Published,
BY MefT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Riec, and the
othei Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five tents.
Elegant y printed on Wove paper, and Hob
prtjfed,
By John Thoropfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEVTOF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Corftitution, and
classing together their most important provisions,
under the several heads 0/ adminiftratian ; with
Notes andObfcrvations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Caroling,
L L. D. and member of the Congreft of the
United States.
Dedicated to tha People of the United States.
N. B. A few copies printed or. an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
February 6 mwf
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewbll, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. ii Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cases / Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait:
Aug. 24.' tut&stf.
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lattly arrived
from Europe, wishes to find here a place in
the quality of a Director of a Olafs-houfc, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular means fdr the
con (trillion of the kilns, pots, &c. and poffeQinj
likewise the articles lifed in the Glals houses of j
Ergland and Fraace, having wrrked a loug while j
in meftof them. Every exertion will be made to I
render the ntanufa&Qry deserving of public appro
bation—He,who wifins to speak to liim, will find
him at No. 175 Front-ftiest.
August 34. » 4C
Ffsr sale or to be let ou *ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
OITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal-
O nut and Fifth streets, fronting State-
Hcufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hum.'red and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street; there are at
present two small two story brick houles, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Aljo, far Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ltores, wharf, &c. situate an
Water-street, between Mulberry and Sallafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five sett, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour factor, or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcalh. For further information apply to the
printer.
Jtfly m&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aflortment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irilh Linens and &ectiagt, well
aflorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxet «f fine Spices, attaining Nutmegs,
Mace and Clovet
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity M»Wi«wtiAr
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
AugvJl It. jawim
Cedar Shingles.
r T n HE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
X Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at IJ
dollars par thoui'and.
William Hallowell,
No. 193 North Third-jlrut.
July 17. 001 at
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
npHAT agreeably to an a>3 of Congress «f the
JL United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the 28th day of May, 1796 j laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of perlous,
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of passengers, the several duties and
rates following, to wit:
For and upon every Coach, 15 dels.
upon every Cfariat, 12 dols.
u"on every Pod Chariot, la dols.
upon every Post Chaise, I a dolt,
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachec, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panncl work
above, with blinds, glasses or curtains,
9 defls.
upon four, wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and toj>s with steel springs, 6
dols.
»pon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
en or iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upo/TCurricles with tops, 3 dols.
Mpon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
u 1 on other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and tops, and resting up
on wpoden spars, 1 dols.
The ColleAors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftri(ft of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September n-Ttt, for
the ptrtpofp of receiving the duties oil Carriages, at
No, IX 7, in Race or SafTafras-tlreet, in the City of
Philadelphia; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all persons pofleffed of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities thati thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised id grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpesor of the Revenue of the firft fui>
vey of the Diftri& of Pennsylvania.
Office of ijifpe&ion at
Philadelphia, 3d Augull, 1727* i
Thomas Hejrman Llukfer,
North Fifth ftr»ct, corner of North alky, Hp. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
FVXCELLENT red Bourde*ux Wine in cases aui
J boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine ir. casks
r
Russia Sail Cloth*
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Hessians
Diaper and Table Cloti
iimpty bags
Cenimon German C'loih
An aflbrtment of black colourod Ribboof
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxe«, for family life
Window Glass 29 22\f
~THTS DAY WAS PUBLISHED, "
And for sale by 7HQM4S DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 4i> south Second ilreei*
EVENINGS at HOME;
__ OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED,
Confift,ng of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
the infttuclion and auiuftment of YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely printedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
fuck, that the book needs only to be known to ba
universally tfleem-ed one of the molt valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
persons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to shoot,
l'o poyr tl« frelh inflru&ion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing brtaft.**
Thomson.
August 14. mwf4w
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, ~
By THOMAS DOSSON, at the Stone House,
No. 4t, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Vonng Ladies, on improving and ia*
terefting fubjeJU.
TraafUted from tke Dutch of Madame de Caenhon,
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onfine paper, andneatly found,
* Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ef extraordinary diltrefs, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
w hieb it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be igdbrant of, this little book comas forward to so»
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real lift, proper, because
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
tbaraflcr is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and prrfems examples of real and attainable excel
l*ace.
The publisher was fomuch pleafedwith the per®*
sal, that he was persuaded he Ihould do a pleaftnj
service to the community by fending it iit'o circu
lation. August 14 —mw4w
To Majlert and Pilots bringing up Vtjftit
from Foreign Ports to this City.
TTTHereas sundry infringements have lately beea
W made on-the laws of this state for the pro*
venting peftilentiil or infaitious diseases, cither
firom ignorance or inattention thereto, it it tho't
expedient at this time to publilh the following e»
tradls from the laws of a:d April, 1754, 7th aad
Bth feflioJU. . -
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 17J4;
ExlrnSt of an alt for fettering tht city and perl
of Philadelphia from the introdudion of pejli
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further ena&ed, that every
mailer or captain of any Ui ip or velTel coming from
sea (vessels a-finally employed n the toasting trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place withiu
the jurifdidlion of Pennsylvania,fhall canfe his (hip
or vessel to be brought to anchor, or otherwise Hay
ed in the dream of the river Delaware, opp»fit« to
the Health-Office on State-Island aforefaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heath frem the Refidcnt Phy
tic 1 an. And it, pre vieufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any master or captain (hall
fulfer his (hip or velTel to approach nearer than tha
said Health-Office to the city of Pkiladclphia, or
(hall la:iu, cause or fuffer to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any oth«r port or place, with ths
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receivirg fosh bill of health
or certificate, he shall negle<2 or rcfufe to deliver
the fame to the Health-Officer, such master or cap
tain (hall forfeit and p'.y, for each and every such
offence, the fain of rive hundres dollars.
And the captain or master of every (hip or ves
sel (hall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on beard, and (hall in like manner
convey him back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And white he
is making such examination, or in rase any subse
quent examination, by the Health Officer .or Con
lulling Phvtician, agreeably to the diredions of
this a£t, the mailer or captain (hallexpole or caula
to beexpofed to thefearch of the Rcfident Phyfi
cian,or <tf the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of tha
fhij> or vessel, and (hail present to his view each
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and (hall also true and fatisfa&ory answers make
to all such questions as the Refidcnt Physic ian, &C.
at the time of examination (hall aik relative to ths
health of any poftor place freta which the (hip on
vessel failed, or has finco touched at—the numbeo
of persons oh board when the (hip or vessel entered
011 her voyage—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken 011 board, and whea
and whererefpedively—what persons on board—
s they haVe been during the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, be infedted with any pet
tilcntial or contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent state and condition of the persons on board
with refpeit to their health or diseases. And if
any mailer or captain (hall rcfufe to cxpofe as afore
aid, to the fearchof any of the officers aforefaid.
n if he (hall conceal ary fiek person, or in any other mam
j/r deceive tie proper officers aforefaid in bis antivers,
uch captain or master, for every such offtnee, (hall
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred dol
lars.
Src'f. 8. And if any person or persons whatfo
erer (the Rcfident Physician, &c. excepted) (hall
go on board any vessel, before the master thereo#
has received a certificate of health in the manlier
riirefled, every person so offending, shall pay thf
um of SN£ HUNDRED DOLLARS.
IT being absolutely necessary that the foregoing
fedtions thou Id be pun<Su*lly complied With, th»
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mull ex
aift a rigoroms obf. rvjiiice of the (ame, or else bf
under tlie neccffity of puttisg the laws in force.
Wm. Health Officer of ttf
Put tf Thiladclpbia.
July 14.
[VCLI'ME XIIST/ITE of PEtiNSTL VAN JA.
An ACT to provide for alleviating, the thf-
JlreJfet of the Citizens of Philadelphia, and
the Suburbs thereof, during the continuance
of the exiting maligHaht, arid totttagicus di
f-afi'
See. i. BE it efta&ed, by the Senate
Sin<s Houte of Representatives of the ,Com-
WiortWenith of Pennsylvania ih General As-,
fembly met, and it is hereby e'na&ed by the
authority of the fame, that a sum not Ex
ceeding ten thousand dollars, be appropria
ted for the accommodation, employment,
and relief of any sick and indigent pyrforts,
in the City of Philadelphia ana the suburbs
thereof, during the continuance of the em
itting malignant, and cont-agiousdifeafej and
the sum so appropriated (hall be paid by the
Treasurer of the State, on a warrant or war
rants, to bfe drawn by the Governor in fa
vor of the commillkmers to be appointed as
herein after mentioned, who (hall account
therefor to the Legislature at their next
feflion.
Sec. 11. And be it further ena&ed by
the authority aforefaid, That the Governor
be empowered to appoint twelve commifiion
ers, three of whom (hall be resident in the
Northern Liberties, jhree in the Diftrift
of Southwark, and fix in the city of Phila
delphia to carry into e'ffeft this law.
GEORGE LATIMER,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ROBERT HARE,
Speaker of the Senate.
Approved, August 29, 1797. •
Thomas Mifflin, Governor of the
Commonwealth ef Pennsylvania.
Th£ Coramiflloners appointed by the
Governor, to carry into effeft the law for
alleviating the distress of the Citizen! of Phi
ladelphia, and the suburbs thereof; inform
their fellow-citizens, that they have met and
attended to their appointment, and now in
*ite.them to recommend in writing, signed
by one or more reputable inhabitant, such
of the indigent as may come to their know/
ledge, who will be employed or alfifled ie
they may stand in need of, by applying to
the Commissioners at thf State-House, from
3 to 5 o'clock, on the 4th inft. and every
other day, (at the fame hours) while ne
ccffary.
ROBERT WHARTON,
» Chairman.
Sept. 2, 1797. _ .
P. S. The Printers in the city are re
qucftcd to publish the above in their different
papers.
The Health-Office
13 removrd to the City-Hall, and is kept open
/ night and day, where perfoni having business may
apply. Wm. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
-*pt. 4. dtf
NOTICE.
THE Officei of the Depsrtment of War are for
the prtftnt removed near to the Fall* of th* Scuyl
fcill, on the Ridge Read. 1
Septembc- 4
' ' TO BE SOLD, ~~
And immediate pojfejfion given,
A Convenient welt finithed Brick I entment,
with a cook house and other out houfet, Gtu
atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilpning
—t"" j" the ft"te of Delawarj—Thg latof rround
has forty feet front on WeU-ltrett, ana exfeirar
through the square to Paflure-ilreet, on which is
creoled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and enteral on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing roomi
and one diniag room—the largest is 31 feet by
a6 —and two are so conne&ed by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, T)e
fides j in the garret, well finithed for servant*.
There are {tables and a coach house, with every
convenience for a family. Enquire tNo. 19,
in North Seventh Areet, or at No. aiß, Arch
Street;
Aug. tawjw.
City CommiJJioners Office,
August 2-9, 1797.
IN jyurfuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common Councils, palled the 2»dday ofMaylatl.
Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
Commissioners for one month from the itt of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firll day of January next, the
.following public property of the city—
The wharf ahi landing on Vine Street,
Alfa on SafTafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, with,
th« Scale and Fi(h Houses, Sp.-uee, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry On Schuylkill,
With the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much.
t>meof as shall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the use Collector of the Tolls, or b«
neceflary for the toll gates.)
Ang. 3 ■ ■ Jtawim.
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property* June 6, 1797,
Present John Hall, Sec'ry.
Francis Johnftcn, R.G. >oflandoflice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G-J
Nicholas Bettinger,
versus f v
Samuel Cunningham. J
In this cafe (he proof of service of notice be
ing inefficient, It isordered that notice be giv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers weekly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs or aflignees of Samuel Cunningham »le
ceafed, to atttend the board on the firlt Monday
in November next, to shew cause why a patent
ftould net ifliie to Nicholas Bettingei for the
land in question.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Offiee.
Aug. 15. _ _ _ *iawßw._
IMPO R T E D
>s the lllip America, Jamev Ewing, matter, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands ,
White Platillas
Ticklenbnrgs
, Coarfc Linens ,
Tapes
Looltir.g Slaflei } ,
eiai-. Tumblers 1 ,n ***
fOR SALE BY
. George Penricck.
A*?)/! 14- i™
%ijc oasettt4
>
phiLadelP.hu>
TUESDAY EVENING, September
Wilmington, Sept, id, 1797.
Dear Sir,
Shall Ibe permitted so far to trespass U
pon your time, as to alk you to state tome
in a letter by an early port, the symptoms
: which characterize the contagious fever now
or lately prevalent in you* neighbourhood"in
Philadelphia, for I have although not in
pradice seen a cafe of a little girl so denomi
nated, who fc fever had been Of five day 9
continuance, and waa at the time to which
I refer attended with no great degree of fe
ver, very little yellowness of the eyes, skin
perfettly clear, with little heat, clean tongue,
no pain in the head, and very little sickness
of stomach, (altho' both these last symp
toms haft existed, but went off without
bleeding.) She had over the whole furface
of her body a miliary eruption o£ a bright
red appearance—l am the more induced to
a(k you for a correct defeription of it, as
some cases are said to have occurred here in
persons flying from Philadelphia, which has
occasioned some alarm, indeed more than it
necessary. At this time of general fright,
every disease, is fufpe&ed to be the Yellow
Fever, and is consequently the tjccauon of
alarm.
Pray what is the state of the disease in the
City, our,nccounts <jre so various and con
tradictory as to render all rational conclusion
impracticable.
With very fmeere withes for your health
and welfare, I am your obedient servant,
HENRY LATIMER.
]Qr. William Currie. *
/[ Phi adelphia, • September 4th, 1797,
/Dear Sir,
Time onljrferves at present to inform you,j
that tho contagious fever at present in this?
city, generally attacks suddenly, without
previous sense of debility, with pain in the
fore part of the head and in the knivs, and
often in the back, accompanied with consi
derable sense of cold, (and in more violent
cases with great ftirfture about the region
of the heart, and diftrefsful anxiety and
restlessness) but no rigor or (hivering.
In many cases the eyes smart like a burn,
and are as watery as if the patient had been
weeping—more or less red—but seldom
yellow for some days : the face appears
slushed ; the skin feels hot and dry ; 'the
pulse quick, tense, and confined: symp
toms worse in the afternoon and. fore part
of the night: bowels eoftive—feldom any
sickness at stomach or inclination to puke
for the firft two days.
A complete inter-million takes place on
the third or fourth day, and the fever -re
turns no more—or a considerable remiifion,
succeeded by coldness of the extremities,
and an incessant desire to puke. In a day
or two later, the matter puked up or dis
charged by stool, appears black, unless
comatose symptoms come op, which is
often the cafe. Coma is generally succeeded
.hy fymptQiTls of scurvy, which finally ter
minate in profufe hxmorrage, vrhfeh pnr»
a period to life.
The remedies which have molt invariably
succeeded, when employed frofn the begin
ning of the disease, have been', blood-letting
repeated to a third or fourth time at pro
per intervals—two bleedings frequently an
swer ; but where the inflammatory symp
toms are manifeft, it has been found to be
ufeful to repeat it in the height of the pa
roxiftrw to a ninth time, and in one cafe
eleven times. In addition to blood-letting,
mercurial purges have produced unequivo
cally good effects.
In cases where vomiting has come on,
calomel in doses of 2 grains every two
hours, or at longer intervals if it Ihould
occasion too copious evacuations. At this
period, blisters to the stomach and wrists,
or to the infidc of the thighs, have also con
tributed to the relief of the patient. The
patient is still, on account of the irritability
of his stomach, reftri£ted to cooling and
diluting drinks, and prohibited kinds of
nourilhment except what can be conveyed
in glyfters. In cases where the vomiting
cannot be restrained, a yellowness gradually
pervades the eyes and skin of the patient,
and at length a matter black as ink is either
puked up or evacuated by stool, and in a
Ihort time after the patient dies.
After the reduflion of the inflammatory
symptoms, when mercury, either taken in
ternally or applied externally, affefts the
salivary glands, the patient generally re
covers.
The disease is the very fame in kind that
we had in 1793, rendered different in degree
by the difference of the season.
About 200 persons have • already been
affefted by it; of these betwten 6o and
70 have died, including 27 that were sent
to the hospital at different stages of the
disorder.
Among others we have to lament" the
death of Dr. Way, whose talents you know
in a certain branch were conspicuous, and
who on that account will be much miffed
as well as regretted.
The disease has not gained much ground
for some days'paft below the new market,
which is the part of the city where it firft
appeared, owing I believe to the line of
communication being cut off by the removal
of the inhabitants :' but as it has infmuated
itfelf into other parts of the city, there is
no reason to exped it will be entirely extin
guilhed till the appearance of froft, by
which the contagion, whereby it is propa
gated, is as certainly destroyed as the moll
tender tropical plant. Rain and cool wea
ther, though they have some controul over'
the contagion, never entirely destroy it.
A few instances have already occurred
of persons who had been cxpofed to conta
gion, having taken the disease after removal 1
to the country. If any such cccur at
W[lmiugtoDj {hall thank you to let me
know it.
I remain^
With fentimcnts of sincere regard,
Y«?ur friend and humble fervapt,
V/m. CURRtE.
Dr. H. Larimer, lVihningioni.
For of the United Statues.
REGARDING the insult which the
Spanish minister, the Chevalier d'Yrujo, has
offered to the. government of the United
States, by his Jjtte audacious appeal from its
adminiftratiou to the people, as alike intend
ed to subvert the happiness s*d abftradi from
the dignity of our country, and being aware
of the motive.? which have prompted this
pernicious purpole, I feel myfelf called on
to affisrt that /hare 0$ the right, which ap
pertains to each individual citizen of the
American community, to avenge the insult,
and to expose its author not merely to the
contempt of the people, against whom he
has meditated so foul a wrong, but to the
crimination of his proper fovercign, whose ef
feptial interests he has deeply wounded by
his unwise and ridiculous condudt.
And here I will Venture to predidt that,
if those interests, and the injury they have
fuffered on the present occasion, are well
understood and justly appreciated by the
court of Spain, it is by no means impossible
that the translator of Smith's Wealth of.
Nations himfelf.be translated to one of
the more immediate sources of that wealth ;
where a practical acquaintance with the sub
division of labour would give him a clearer
idea than any he has yet acquired of his
original.
When this minister undertook, by a con
temptuous appeal from the proceedings, of
the executive department, to debase that
branch of our government in the estimation
of its citizens, he either was or he was not
acquainted with the ftrudture of the govern
ment, and its relations to the people, for
I whose uses, and by whom, it had been infti
i tuted.
If acquainted with its nature and relations,
he could not be ignorant that his appeal
was not only a diredt and daring violation of
all diplomatic rules, but a gross and humili-.
ating insult to the people themselves, from
whom the Executive of the United States
immediately emanates ; and whose elective
fandtion, so recently given, (hould have
(hielded the objedt of their choice, and the
representative of their authority, from the
rude impertinence of a foreign agent. If
this minister was not acquainted with the
nature of our government or its relations,
but blindly, though wickedly, plunged into
a mcafure the whole tendency of "which he
did not csnprehend, and the consequences
of which he had not calculated byond the
quantum of ftcret fervicc money which it might
enable him to draw from hit employers, then
there can be no want of charity in pro
nouncing him a very undignified and un
profitable agent for his mailer, and a very
indecorous and dangerous inmate of the U-*
nited States.
The part which he has adted, and the
unworthy insinuations which he has dared to
utter against the Executive of the United
States, have excited a spirit of indignation
throughout this country, which, if the
of its government were not purely
pacifis, and scrupulously neutral. would re
alize all the apprehensions, which he has
affedted to entertain, and in less time than
his uncombining int,elk£t has been led to
imagine.
" An astronomical apparatus," to
the transportation and use of which no per
mission would be alked of Spanish governors,
might be carried to the Mississippi, which
would give such lines of demarcation as
have net yet been contemplated.—But an
inviolable refpedt for the faith of treaties
will bind the United States to the diie ex
ecution of them—and so far the interests of
the Spanish nation will yet be fafe, not
withftasding the insidious counsel of her falfc
friends, and the unjuftiflable conduit of her
filly fervaats. She will adt wifely, however,
in disclaiming such servants and such con
duct—and, profiting by the present lesson,
Spain, if her dearest concents are consulted,
cannot fail to cultivate with g«od faith, and
through an able agency, the friend/hip of a
people, whose enmity, provoked to action,
would instantly subvert the empire of her
colonies, and fink her consequence in the
scale of nations forever.
DENTATUS.
From the N. T. Daily Gaz.
We have attentively perused the remarks
by Obfervator upon the paragraph in -our
Gazette on Tuefdaylaft ; and, though he
is ostensibly right in the conftruftion he be
stows on Haley's letter, and really so iu the
animadversions he makes on the principles of
our American Jacobins, yet we cannot help
thinking he does not fufficiently extend his
views, as well with refpedt to the diredt as
the collateral consequences and influence of
the condudt of that foe to America. Tho'
the intention, as avowed in the letter, is to
feizethe property of his " detested enemies,"
it does not follow thattheEnglilh are exclu
sively to be the vidtims of his malice. It is
believed that Americans are meant to be
robbed, as wall as his " infernal enemies."
There-are, it is well known, in this country,
men real native Americans, who are no ad
mirers of the sanguinary excesses of the
French—these, by such fellows as Haley,
are branded with the nameof 7or/fjandArif
tocrats though sincerely attached to the
freedom and independence of the United
States—and men of these descriptions- are
expressly named by this " consummate vil
lain," as among the number whose property
he meanp to depredate on—This is certain
ly no strained conftrudtion, for the letter ex
plicitly declares it. Bcfides, a single con
iideration without the aid of any other,
stamps his condudt- with the mark of hostili
ty to the United States—Every one who
knows any thing, knows, 'that the capture
of the Hare raised the premium of Insurance
last spring from 4to $ per cent—and per
haps, if; calculated, this Angle
item would amount on the imports of l&ft
Spring to at lead 3 or 403,000 dollars—
Surely such a sum is fufficierit to (hew that
so Safe a measure as Haley is chargeable
with, and which was the result of delibera
tion, is evident and diredt hostility against
the United States —lt may be said the pre
miums are insured as well as the capital—
and that they will be paid together—>good—
but though this may appear plausible it is
not folid—lt ought to be the cose, but is
not—T<fe instance of the Severn taken into
Brest, where the cargo was condemned, is a
cafe in point—a large proportion of that
property though infursd in England, is still
unsettled, and like to continue so to all eter-
feveral infured there, have
been carried into France this spring, the in
furanee upon which the underwriters refufe
to pay, because the vessels were unprovided
with a role d'equipage. The loss in these
cases fall of course on the insured. We are
authorized also to infer from recent ac
counts that the whole of what is alledged as
causes of condemnation, are mere pretexts,
notindeedoriginally conceivedby the French
themselves, but suggested to them by un
principled Americans for the purpose of en
abling them to plunder with impunity the
j property of their defenceless countrymen—
; and of this abominable class is Haley : His
1 letter ihews him to be utterly abandoned—
and a man possessed of such a mind, may be
fairly fufpedted of the blackest defigns—ln
short, it is pretty generally understood, that
the defedtion of this wretch, was not ip or
der to attain revenge from his " detested in
fernal enemies," but for the purpose of en
riching himfelfby feizingand appropriating
through the inftrumtntality of the French
maritime courts, the property of English
men and Americans without diftindtion.
This we believe is generally understood, and
every circumstance warrants the inference.
From an European paper.
SKETCH of POLITICS.
It is a curious circumstance which cannot
have efc # ."d the observation of those who
have traced the French revolution with an
attentive eye, that many of those momentous
events which have, in a great degree, decided
the fate of Europe, have been influenced by
a combination of fortunate occurrences ; and
i that the success of many of their principal
j operations which have contributed to the
1 establishment of the French republic, has
j neither resulted from wisdom in confidera-
I tion, depth of judgment, nor extent of po
| litical forefight. The elements alone gave
the French pofleffion of and secured
j their navy from deftruftlon on the coast of
Ireland ; while the hand of death j.who might
1 justly be termed the tutelar deity of the re
public, by snatching the imperial Catharine
from the throne of Ruflia, when on the
1 point of adtively co-operating with the allies,
I enabled them to obtain the advantages that
marked the last disastrous campaign.' But
in no one instance has their goodfortune serv
ed them so essentially and decisively as in
- the feafqnable conclusion ofj>eace with the
emperor. Fourteen hours after the prelimi
nary articles had been signed at Leoben, a
courier arrived at Vienna with dispatches
from the emperor of Russia, who had been
just crowned at Mqfcow, containing the im
portant communication, that an army of
18o,oco Ruffians bad received orders to
march to the afllftance of the imperial af
mies in Italy and on the Rhine ! These
troops too were to be paid by the Ruffian
monarch. A reinforcement so decisive must
have given an immediate change to the whole
face of affairs. The expulsion of the French
from Italy would have been certain, and it
is highly probable that, ere the conclusion
of the campaign, they would have been re
duced lo the necessity of retiring within their
ancient limits. How much then must Eu
rope deplore the superabundant afid impro
vident caution of the emperor Paul, in ne
gledling to give some private intimation of
his intentions to the court of Vienna. This
step would have answered every purpose, by
inducing Joseph to adopt a defenfive fyftcm,
until the arrival of the Ruffian army, and by
averting, at the fame time, those dangers
which Paul was fearful of incurring by an
open avowal of his designs before the cere
mony of his coronation had taken place.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, July it.
Copy of a letter from capt Hillowell, of his ma
jesty's fliip Lively, to admiral the earl of St
Vincents.
Lively, of S. IV. end of Ttntrife, May 31, '97.
sail,
1 have the honor to inform you, that on {land
ing into the bay of Santa Cruz, in the ifiand of
leneriffe, on the afternoon of the 28th, in com
pany with La Minerve, 1 discovered an armed brig
lying in the road, which, ifl eur nearer approach,
hoisted French colours. Captain Cockburn agree
ing with myfelf in opinion that file might be taken
from her anchors, I .ordered all the boats of the t wo
Ihips, with a lieutentant ip each., the next night to
bring her out ; lieut Hr.rdy, of La Minerve, being
the lenior officer, the command fell on him. At
about ha¥ past two in the afternoon, he made a
mod refalute attack, in which be was gallantly fup
portcd by lieut. 131 and, I-fapkins andßulhby, and
lieut. Bulkley of the marines.,in the I.ivcly's boat!,
and lieuts. Gage and Maliiig in La Minerve's
boats, and under a frjart fire of from
the brig, boarded and carried her almost immedi
ately. Th's ga*e an alarm-to the town, and a hca
vy fire of artillery and mufquefry wj9 opened
from every part of .the garrison, and from a large
fliip lying iu the road immd : aeely, which continu
ed without intcrmifiicn for near jin hour, during
which time they were very much nxpcfed in get
ting the brig undtr weigh, and towing her out,
there being very little wind, and a little before 4
o'clock they had got out of reach of the Uituries
with La Mutine French rational corvette, of 12
fix pounders and two thirty-fix •pound caronades,
»nd 135 men, 113 of whom wete on board at the
time, commanded by citizen Xavicr Paumier, Ca
pitaine de Frigate. She failed from Breii on the
Bth for L'lfle de France, and had put into the bay
of SantaCru2 threejlsys before Ihc was captured,
to take in water. The captain wa3 en ihore at
the time (he was cut out.
Lieut. Hardy having commanded the boats on
this expedition, I have fer.t him in with the prize,
and cannot recommmend him, or the o'Scers or
fcamm employed, ob t!i*t fervicc with him, in too
strong terms fndofel if a ii.l o.' tlic "waunde 1
belonging to both fliips.
1 lihvc tl,e honor to Jje, &c
ISSNJ. iuuowbu.
I,il of the petty office!- and ieamen belonging t b
h s majeHy'i f!i;p Lively, wounded in taking La
Mutine FKnch nation;! corvette.
Mr. fealpii Standilh, mailer's mate ; William
Allen, quarter mailer; Pet.r Lawrence, Glenville
Newberry, fearricn.
Return of oilers and men belonging to his majes
ty's Ihip La Minerve, wounded in taking the na
tional brig Mutine,
Lieutenant Hardy ; Mr. J. Coulfon, gunner ;
Mr. Eager, midlhipman ; Mr, Carpenter, do. dan
gcroufly ; Matthew VeflVy,. gunner's mate ; David
Lewii, second maflar's mate ; Robert Slopr. cox-
Swain ; Anthony Hull,Teaman,d;ingcroufly ; Jarr.es
Dunlap, corporal; and John Milton and Samuel
Clark, privates of the nth regiment.
Geo. cockburn.
Copy of letters to admi al'the earl of rft. Vincent,
from capt. Morris, of his majesty's ship the
Bolton.
So/!m, tf fig,, June 4, '97.
sin,
I have the honor to inform you, hi* mij-fty'»
Ihip thi* morning, after a chace of three hours,
captured El Principe de Paz>'pani(h brie privateer,
of 10 guns and ico men—file failed last evening a
from Vigo on her firft cruize. It is with extreme
concern I have to add, that the only one o' v her
(hot that took effeii killed Mr. Mainwari«g, mid-
Ihipman. a verf amiable young gentleman, f great
prom f.-a* an officer. His majefty'3 floap Kingf
filker being in fight, I have directed captain
land to proceed to Lilbon vvi h the prize and pri
soners. I have the honor to be, &c.
J.N. MORRIS,
Sir John Jrrvr, K. B. Sc.
ft'Jlm, off P'igo, "June 10, '97.
SIR,
I have the honor to acquaint you. that yesterday
afternoon his majesty's Ihip under nay command
gave chace to a brig, and at 6 o'clock brought her
to.close in with the Bayona Ifiands. at the entrance
'- f Vigo : She proves to be his Catholic majesty's
packet and failed the evening; before
from Corunna, and was bound for the Havanna.
I have the honor to be, &c.
„. , , . J- N. MORRIS.
Sir John Jervis, K. B. &c.
Copy of a letter to admiral lord Bridport, from
Sir Harry Neale, Bart, of his majesty's Ihip St.
- Fiorenzo.
St. Fhrenxo, Tor bay, 'June 8.
Mv lord,
I beg to inform you, that I captnred tfieCaflor,
a lugger privateer, on the ift inflant, 60
leagues weft of Scilly, pierced for 14 grins, and
manned wi-Ji. 75 men ; (he had been out from St.
1 Maloes 18 days, and had taken'theßefolution brig
belonging to Tinmouth, laden with fait. She threW
her guns overboard during the chace.
| 1 have the honor to be,
Y our lordlhip's most obedient humble servant,
I. NEALE.
Rt. Hon. Lord Bridport.
A captain of an American vefTel arrived
in town on Mondaay last from Havre, who
states that 22 American vefTels are now lying
in that port, most cf which have been co»- '
demned.
If we might draw arivconclufion from the
profpeft of peace from the immense orders
which have been lately received from France
for woollen goods of all descriptions, we
fhovrld pronounce it very certain indeed
The orders for Caffimers only are larger than
all the stock in hand in the marehoufes of
country. Many of the orders have been
paid for in advance in specie remitted from v
Hamburgh.
Maj«r gen. Cuyler and his suite, with
Governor Johnson, lady, and family, failed
on Monday morning from Cowes road, for
theWeft-Indie*, on board the Concorde fri
gate, capt. Roberts.
A captain of an American vefTel arrived
ill an Memfcry hft from Havre, who
states that 22 American veflijls are now ly
ing in thit port, most of which have been
condemned.
July 14.
Captain Gore, who lately ftiot the earl
of Meath in a duel near Dublin, has sur
rendered himfelf to take his trial for the
alleged murder.
Mr. Burke is to be buried at Beacons,
field, on Saturday next* in a private man
ner, a few of his own particular friends be
ing only to attend the funeral.
Arrived at Spithead, ,-the San Domafa
Spanish man of war, of 74 guns, prize to
admiral Harvey, and La Prompte frigate,
from the Weft Indies.
PORTSMOUTH, July 9 .
Le Pompeeof 74 guns, appointed to ac
company the outward bound East-India lhip»
to a certain latitude, dropped down this day
to St. Helen's, and it to proceed to sea the
firft fair wind.
Hi* Majesty's /hip Fiorenzo, captain Sir
Harry Harry Burrard Neal», has taken and '
sent into this port a large French lugger pri
vateer, pierced for 16 guns. She is only
16 monhts old,a very fine vefTel, and was not
captured till after three days chace, during
\%hich time she threw all her guns over
board.
VIENNA, June 24.
The negociations at Montebello, near
Milan, between the French and Austrian
plenipotentiaries, still continue. Six offi
cers have been appointed as couriers to the
Marquic de Gellov r I he deputies appoint
ed on the part of Austria to theCo'igrefs
for the peace of the Empire, are, the counts
Lehrbach, Wetternich, and Cobenze!, and
Barbn Weftphal.
Orders have likewise been sent to the
troops in Upper Austria, for four battali
ons to march immediately to the army ib
Inner Austria and Italy. ■
A conspiracy has been <ii at Ni
plcs, and private letters from the City as
sert, that had not 50C0 Lazaroni prgttfted
the King, he and his whole family would
have fallen a facrifice to the democratic
rage of the conspirators. The Duke of Mo
dena had nearly beefh arretted at Venice by
the French : they rcquired the money he
had taken with him frora Modena.; but he
answered, that it was in the hands of the
Austrian Minister at Venice, who confidercd
it as a sacred deposit which he would not
give up- On the mediation of the Spanish
mirfifter at Venice, however, it was agreed,
that the Duke, on paying 180,000 dutats
to the French, fbcmld be peravitted to leaye
the city.1 Odine, B::.Tvio, and Zara, the capital
ct Venetian Dalmatia, arc again in the po~-
f'-fmn of our troops.
the Court Gazette of this day contains
a Proclamation i.Taed by the adminiflration
of Stiria, and nddrefled to the people of
that country, whp conceive, 1 that since the
departure of the French, they ou&ht no
longer to pay any taxes to their Lords, hor
tythes to the Clergy, nor fulfil any of the
feudal obligations, They pretend that Bu
onaparte had stipulated for this in one of the
of the preliminaries. The adminis
tration declare, that they will enforce the
payment of the taxes to the Lords, the
payment of the tythes to the clergy, and
the feudal rights, without which 110 human
society can exist without being involved in
ruin. They add, that whoever shall make
the least oppofitiou, will be immediately ar
retted and delivered up to jtiftice.
13y this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, September 2.
Last night abc\it 11 o'clock, a young
man returning home, was accosted near Lif
penard's grounds by a man who ordered
him to at the fame time presenting
a pistol : he ftized the robber by the fhoui
der, who immediately fired : fortunately the
pistol glanced aflde ; but his coal, waistcoat
and shirt, were much burnt by the powder.
On feeing he did not fall, the robber whitt
led, as a signal for his companions, when the
young man, apprehetifive of other attacks,%
thought it prudent to make his escape.
From several late instances it ii evident
that a gang of thieves is lurking about thi'3
city, and acting in a tnanner that deserves
something more than ordinary vigilance to de
test and trace them to their source.
0
COMMUNICATION.
The valuable American East India ship,
mentioned in a Hamburgh article yesterday,
was taken by a privateer belonging to the
celebrated Felix Coffin of Nantes. He has
agents in this city and other parts of the
union, to colleft intelligence and give infor
mation of the molt plausible pretexts for
seizing American vefTels.
September 4.
The following we believe to be the au
thentic particulars relative to the barbarous
treatment received by the fhip'Fame, of Phi
ladelphia, from a French privateer.
Yesterday arrived at the place,
the ship belonging to MefTrs. Oditr,
Bosquet and brothers, Capt. Robert Wil
few, who failed from the Capes of the Dele
ware on the 27th ult. bound for Havre de
Grace, with several French ladies and gentle
men pafTengers. Capt. informs us
that on the 29th, inlat. 38, 30, Sandy Hook
beinpr distant about 60 leagues, he saw two
brigs, one of which gave him chafe ; at 11
A. M. finding he could not escape her, he
shortened fail—at half past 11, the brig be
ing within eannon shot, and having no co
lour hoisted, fired a shot which wounded
Madame Fatan, a lady pafTenger, very fe
ver<*ly, by carrying away half her bread, and
bfoke her arm in two places : They then
boarded the ship, and commenced to ransack
her in every quarter ; finding part of an
English flag on board, they laid hold of two
• French negro boys, and threatened to hang
them if they would not di£clv£«.fome parti,
culars refpetting the ships papers —the elder
boy gave them 110 fatisfa£lion,but the young
er being intimidated, said that the
had hid his papers. They then commenc
ed a second search and finding nothing to
induce a further detention, after stealing
from the captain a pair of gold knee buckles,
they fuffered him to proceed on his voyage
at 7 o'clock P. M. Capt. Wilson through
motives of humanity to save the life of hi 3
pafTenger, landed her, with her husband in
this city'on Friday, in the afternoon ; and
we are happy to understand, by surgical
aid, there is a probability of saving her life.
When they firft came on board Captain
Wilson, they called th.e brig Eagle, and said
she was commanded by capt. Marrew, but
when capt. Wilson asked them for a certifi
cate to shew that he had been boarded by
them, they said her name was the Camite,
Capt. Marret. She mounts 14 guns and is
full of men.
Capt. W. has noted a pr®teft against the
above proceeding, before Teunis Wortman,
Esq. Notary public,,of this city.
BOSTON, Aug 31.
Extra# of a letter from a very refpeilable mer
cantile house in London, to a gentleman in this
town, dated sth July.
" We think it right to remark, for your infor
mation, that the late accounts from your fide, of
your eoaft baine much infelled by French priva
teers, and of several American vessels having been
•captured by tKem, that insurance has risen to ic
guineas per cent, and we fear it is not likely to be
lower the present season, unless the negotiations,
now going on at Lisle, Ihould end in an immedi
ate pea<e (which does not here seem to be much ex
iiefled :)i n which cafe insurance will soon fall to
the o!d premium.—The critical situation of affairs,
in this refpea, and the general apprehensions en
tertained here, that a nipture between your Coun
try and France, is inevitable, will materially cur
tail the (hipments generally to America the present
leafDn." > .
It was reported yesterday, that capt. M Huron,
hound from this port for Halifax, has taken
by the' Fre'tfch privateer, who lately viatertd at
Marblehead.
NEWVORT, Aug. jo.
In the packet Aurora, capt. Cahoontf, arrived
here on Saturday lift from New-York, came paf
fcni'er his Excellency the Chevalier de Yrujo, min.
ifter plenipotentiary of his Catholic Majeftytothe
United States, on a tour to Bolton.
LANSINGBURGH, August 29.
INDIAN TREATY.
A Treaty with the Six Nations is a
bout being held at Big-Tree, 011 the Gene
fee-river, in the county of Ontario.—Gen.
Shepatd, of Hampfaire, ' Massachusetts,
Col. Wadfwortb, of Hartfoid Cbnnefticut,
sad Mr Bayard of New-York, have been ap
pointed-by the Supreme Executive, Com
roiffis-erson the part of the United States
to hold this Trsnty. —-Tfie pri'nci'p ' objcift
to be obtaiivd, is a relinqtiifiimcht of the
Indian title to the lands in the M'-nutehu
fetts pre-emption, owneH Ijy Robert Mor
ris Esq. and others. The Co'rtimiffioners
met in Albany last week, from whencj they
have proceeded on to the place of Holding
the Treaty. 'Tis expetxed the Indians will
be aflembled by the time the Commiffipnert
arrive at Big-Tree, messengers having been
dispatched iflfo theii; country for this pur
pose. ' - ,
n
The citizens of Lanfingburgh have it in
contemplation to attempt removing theob
ftrudtions in the navigation between this vil
lage and Troy. Several patriotic gentlemen
have offered to lubferibe large sums towards
an undertaking of this nature.
BALTIMORE, September j.
All the various enormities of the old world
during its late convulsions, have been more
or less felt in the new. The revolutionizing
phrenzy, the prostration of all'law and or
der, and the total disregard of everything
human and divine, which had feizedthe one,
have also infefted the other. Robberies,N
murders and aflaffinations, art now becoming
the order of the day, towards the close of a
desolating war in Europe ; and the greatest
vigilance of our officers will be required to
check the infernal mania in our'own coun
try. Pick-pocketing, countevfeiting, high
way robbery and murdering are geting so l
( frequent, that scarcely a mail arrives -which |
does not relate some recent horrid instance. j
Let those whose business leads them to tra
vel from home go well prov ded ; and let
the officers of jnftice exert themselves in ap- '
prehending andbringing to punifhmcnt those
faring offenders. Nothing else have we to
hope from,, in the present Ante of society,
to cr*fti such dangerous practices.
A tnojl daring Rqbbkkt ! ! !
A gentleman on his return home from
Philadelphia, was yesterday flopped on the
road between this city and Ellicott's Mills, !
in broad day, by a foot-pad, who seized his
horse's bridle, and presenting a pistol to his
breast, Ordered him to deiifer. The
gentleman put his bancl into his pocket, but
finding the fellow off his guard, gave him
such a blow with a loaded whip, as to dag
ger him very much : He then drew a pistol
froth his holders, which he was fortunately
'provided with, and shot the villain through
the arm—this brought him to the ground ;
but he was molt unluckily prevented dif
patch'ing him on the spot, as his horse, af
frighted at the flifh, and report of the pis
tol, ran off near half a mile before he could
take him up. When he returned to the
scene of a£lion, which he did as soon as pos
sible, he found one of the comrades of the
robber dragging him out of the roa<j with
on<hand, and holding the pistol other.
Not knowing how numerous the gang might
be, he thought it unfafe to hazard another
rencontre, and proceeded on to the mills,
where he related the affair. We are sorry
no measures were taken to pursue those dan
gerous and daring disturbers of our high
ways : if there had been, we should proba
bly now have the pleasure of announcing
their committal to prison. The wound
which one of them received, we hope wiH
lead to a discovery. They were both dres
sed in gingham coats, and their appearance
was tolerably genteel.
NORFOLK, August 28.
—— v is
Capt. Canby, of the schooner Antonio
Wallace, arrived on Saturday from Charles
ton. We learn, that the yellow fever rages
in that eity, and that they avarage 12 deaths
daily.
[Charleston papers to Aug. 22d, contain
nothing to this effeft.]
EDENTON, August 24.
By a letter from Raleigh to a gentleman
in Halifax, we are informed that governor
Blount was lately in that place, and remained
there about 2 days; that he had taken his
departure privately, and it was not known
which way he had bent his courfe.—«We are
told that he said the objeft of his intended
plan was the conquest and plunder ef the
Floridas—that Mr. Lifton nor the British
government never .countenanced the scheme
—that as it was a matter of as much im
portance to them as it was to him, they
would hereafter regret their backwardness
1 —that fearful of meeting the wrath of our
government, at the present moment of po
pular clamour and indignation, he had de
termined to leave the continent.
80 Dollars Re-warct.
LAST night the shop of th'e fubferiber wai»p
ened, and several articles taken off, viz. a
' common blacklrather pocket book, containing two
' twentydollarnotes of the lift emission of the Penn
fylvania Bank, and a number of loose pjpert —
one pinchback watch wjth a carved cafe, and fix
' silver ones—one of these a French watch, origihal
ly made to tell the day of the month, but this pSrt
ofthe'workshad been taken out—the figures on the
' dial plate were left—Another was made by Love
' land, London, the number 3113 ; a third was mark
ed ort the dial plate as wel-as theinfide. Amber,
New-York. No further particulars are recollect
ed. Whoever discovers th-. thief, or thieves, so
that they may prbfecuted to convi&ion and the
' property lecovered, ftiall have the above reward.
Forty dollars will be paid for the praperty alone,
' or in proportion for any part of it *
THOMAS LINDSAY.
N. B. all watchmakers are requested to stop
he above watchejs if offered i'or laic.
' Frankfcjii, August 19.
Aug. ir. e °Bt.
. Aft hying Duties on Stamped Villum,
Parchment and Paper.
> - ,
A FEW copies of the above fuS may ha had »c_
- the Off.ce of tlio OasetW ef the United States, Hi
} 119, thsftiut-ftreM. July 19-
PHILADELPHIA,
Tuesday evening, SfptbmbH t .
A letter from New Yo<-V to a gentleman
of refpe&ability in thisß?city, mentions,
that a brig had arrived tnere, bringing an
account that the Spanish fleet had attacked
admiral Jervis, and after fighting three days
and three nights, had been totally defeated,.'
—lofriig 7 fail of the line funk, befidei
others taken. Many particulars are want
ing in the above information ; but it is
thought a duty to lay it before the public :
though it may prove a bubbfe, no cirCUm
ftanccs at present exist to render a limilar
occurrence improbable.
The interments in the different burying groundi
(including the city hofrital) were ir in the 14]
hours ending: last Saturday atnoon,6 of which were '
children ; and ,?6 U) tbe 48 hours ending yesterday
at noon, 6 of which were children.
Marine Hospital, State IJland.
Report for August.
In the hospital, August 1, a
Admitted from i{i August to Ift Septeihbcr, 37
39 |
Died IJ
cured 10
Remaining in the hospital 16
By. order of the Board,
PERRY, Secretary.
Health-Office, Sept. I, 1797.
There appears to be a difference bet ween the
reports of Dr. Currie and several other phy
sicians, and Messrs. Girard and LoWnes,
• respecting the exiftene'e of cases of yellow
fever in Southward. This difference may
be easily accounted for. MessrS. Girard
and Lownes have baen accu'ftomed to fee the 1
yellow fever, in the year at Bulh-hill
only, where, fr*"n the mdde-of treating it,
the disease put on its mod malignant and
terrible fuch as obllinate vomit
ing, coldness and yellowness of the (kin,
! languid pulfe,'purple spots and black vomit
ing.—By the mode of treating the disease,
now used by Dr. Currie, and all the phyfl
cian9 in Southwark, viz. plentiful bleediDg
and purging, all those terrible And malig
nant symptoms are prevented, and the dis
ease in a few days is made to put on the form
of a common mild fall fever. The decep
tion here is natural, and should be pardoned
in men who are not acquainted with diseases,
or the effects of certain medicines upon the
human body.
When a man possesses an eager anxiety
to establish any point, he will often times'
substitute his withes for fa&s, and milled
by the vagaries of his own heated brain,
will pursue the ignis fatuus of his own cre
ating, till it leads him into errors, contra
dictions and absurdities.
Thus has it been with citizen Bache :
In his labours to shed an obloquy over the
administration for concluding the treaty
with Great Britain, the great advantages
daily accruing from which grieve our fo
reign and domestic enemies to their inmost
fouls, this patriotic typographer has revers
ed the old law of nations, and brought for
ward several new codes, (as absurd as any
fiftion of his (hallow brain must ever be)
which be would impose on us as a substitute
for the worm-eaten volumes of antiquity ;
he has brought forward treaties concluded
under circumstances wholly oppolite to
ours, and totally irrelevant to onrown cafe,
as examples to (hew that our treaty was not
so favourable as it might have been : but
in a recent instance which he has resorted
to, he has made a rr.iferable figute indeed.
After giving us an extrafl front the last
treaty between England and Russia, which
I will suppose to be just and true, he infers
from a principle there laid down, that a
shade is cast over the American chara&er
by her having ceded to Great Britain a
right which Russia reserves—although that
principle is identically the fame with that
on which Great Britain grounds her prac
tice towards us. The article expressly
cedes to her the right> for which (he has
uniformly contended, of availing herfelf
of the services of her Own fubjetts, Kfchere
ever found. Yet this imaginary difference
is made the ground of a reiterated denun
ciation of the whole government, by this
insolent calumniator. In looking for" (hades
on the American character,** I find none
deeper than the difgraceful career oi the
editor of the Aurora. y
But if there aftually existed thedifference
which this factious mifreprefenter- insinu
ates, it would in truth be no stigma upon
us that Russia had extorted what we failed
in obtaining. The difference in the two
eases is obvious. It is of little moment
that Britain guarantees to us by no express
ftip'ulation, the security of our own citi
zens—The very existence of such a fact
would be a reploach to our national dig
nity. It is enough for us that Che does not
•attempt to invade those rights. The fadtibn
reiterate {heir clamours about three or
four instances of impressment of natives, as
long and as often as they pieafe, ft ill the
assertion may be boldly proclaimed, that
no nation 'can ever more'fyftematically re
fpe£t the rights and privileges of another,
than Great Britain does tlfofe of America
at this day.
, But it is needless to offer to men of sense,
any notices of the groundless calumnies with
which the Jacobin prints abound. Their lies
are not designed to meet the eyes of citizens
of this class. No, they -havc their cue ; ,
ind employ' them whei'e
more sure and certain effeft. Whether those
whose minds can be moved with a profpeft
of danger from the effeft ef the malignant
(landers, feattered by the industry of the
Jacobins, their authors, thro' all quarters
of the country, will ever turii their atten
tion to adequate antidotes, ere it be too
' late, seems at j?refent doubtful. Cures are
generally preferred to preventatives.
, A meeting,'tis said has been called in
Virginia, for the purpose of recommending
amendments to the State
[Should salutary alterations take place, it
may-be hoped they will have some influence
in restoring to political founduefs of mind
a majority of the Congreffwnal Members j
from Virginia, and operate to diftand that
phalanx of faftion which has so long dis
graced the ancient dominion—a phalanx, one J
of whose file-leaders [Giles,) his declared
that he has no confidence in the Govern- 1
ment—while at the fame time himfelf and
followers have been pursuing a conduct that ]
has rendered them unworthy the cortSdencs
and tjrufl of all who'do not wish to fee their ]
country fubje&ed to a " fraternal hug,"
which may place theirrights and privileges
under foreign controul j
Extvadl of a letter froTn the Havannah, da
ted th> 14th ult.
" The (hip Asia has been re-captured a
few days »go in the old ftreights, by a Pro
vidence privateer, who sent her for that port,
where no doubt (he must be fafe arrived—
The privateer who took her only arrived 2
days before the prize mailer of the (hip, .who
was put on board an American schooner by
the English; the French are almost dittraft
ed on "account of-the los» of the ship—The
privateers that were here (except one) are
gone to cruise on your coast for the fall ihips
from England—a few days ago seven Amer
ican veflcls from Jamaica were sent in here
by one privateer: they are immediately fold
under security of their condemrtatidn being
procured from the Cape, which is a thing
of course."
Posr.OfncXy September sth, I 797.
(CJ* The Port Office will te removed to
morrow at 3 o'cluck, P. M. to Mr. Dita
lap's Coadh house, I zth'ftreet,between Mar
ket and Cbef»ut street, where merchants and
others will pieafe to fend for their letters, as
tl)e letter carriers daring the continuance of
the present prevailing (ickntfs will not be
sent out.
PRICES OF STOCKS,
Philadelphia, 1 lii /lug. 1797.
6 per Cent. ibj%
j per C«nt. 10/4
Deferred 6 per Cftit. I^/4
BANK United Statei, 17 ]-cr ct, advanc*.
Pennfylvania, 40 do.
—— North America, 46 do.
Insurance Co. N. A {hares 40 do.
Pennfylvania, par
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 dayi par
—— at 60 day« 65
at 90 day» il
Amsterdam, pjr guilder 40
, GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Port of Philadelphia.
The ship Two Sifters, Henry, from Port
au Prince home, and schooner Yeatman,
Crane, hence to the Mole, are taken and
sent into Port de Paix.
Arrived at the FoTt, ship Jane, M'Pher
son, St. Kitts.
New Tori, September 4th.
ARRIVED. Days
Ship Hero, Jaekfon, Bengal 8 months.
John & Phctbe, , Liverpool 71
Flora, Allen, Charleston 9
Brig Iris, Lee, Philadelphia 9
Schr. Americana, Bell, Wilmington 5
Favourite, Walker, Richmond 10.
Packet Concord, Cahoon, Newport 3
Sloop Rising Sun, Betts,
( St. Bartholomew i<3
New London, Augufl 25.
Arrived, lloop Prosperity, Williams,
Martinique. August 20, spoke the (hip
Hope, Pierce, from Teneriffe to N. York,
supplied him with bread, beef, and water,
and 18 of his pa(Tenger»—and on the 23 d.
bound to Philadelphia, and put th? remain
der, of the passengers on board.
August 26.
Arrived schooner Phantom, Smith, in 15
days from New Providence. Two days be
fore he failed the American Indiaman lately
taken off the Capes of the Delaware arrived
there, having been retaken by an Englilh
privateer within 24 hours fail ofHavanna.
Privateering goes onbrilkly at Providence
tho' some of them overshoot thesafelves.
Capt. Shackleford of the Snow Harmony,
of Portsmouth (the vessel carried into New-
York by captain Conklin) was there, and
had recovered damages for the capture of
his vessel, to the amount of near 100,000
dollars.
Baltimore, Sept. '2.
Capt. Barnei, of the schooner Treaty, who
came pajfenger in the schooner Sally, Captain
Bujhef, arrived at New-Cajlle, 20 days
f» Gonaives, has obligingly favored us
with the following lift of vejfels at that port
Augufl g.
Brig Courier, capt. Burr, Philadelphia,
brought in a prize ; (loop Maria, Cobb, do.
fchoor.ers Katy, Dillingham, do. Freeport,
Codman, Bo ft 011 ; Thetis, Kilburn,
mere, brought in as a prize, and it is tho't
will be cleared ; Nancy, Putnam, Jeremie,
brought in and will be condemned ; LovAy
Lass, Parsons, to fail for Philadelphia in 8
days ; Liberty, Harris, Port-de-Paix, bro't
in and cleared ; (loop Sally, M'Dowell,
Cape Francois.
•Capt. Bufher wi.fliea publicly to return
his thanks to capt. Codman of the schooner
Freeport, for the friendly and humane treat
ment himfelf and a number of Americans
experienced from him.
The flr'p John, Tyfon, from this port,
hasariivedat Hamburg—passage 30 days.
• Wanted,
APerfon to attend an Office, and-ail as aMef
lenger, He "must be well acquainted with
the city, and bring unexceptionable recommenda
tions Inquire of the Printer.
Sept. 5. di,\? (
PHILADELPHIA,
7UEST)A Y EVENING, SEPTEMBER. 5.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 4tht o sth September, inthe MorningJ
v Admitted, fuvce la£.report,
James Mechlin, Mrs. Toy's, Third, corner
of Gcrman-ftreet
Ben (a Negro) Peter Brown's, Esquire,
Kensington
Muna (ditto) Mr. Thompfor.'s, No. 18c?,
South Front-street
John Chapman, Stone-yard, corner of
Fi'out and South.streets
John Lellis, Mr. Hertet's, Water, below
Almohd-ftreet.
Ann Jane Fottril, Mrs. Larcom's, Front, 3
doors from Almond street.
John Brown, George's, between Plumb and
Shippen streets.
DI SCHARGED.
Joseph Connell, admitted 22d ult.
DI ED,
Win. Henderfon, admitted 3d inft.
Jacob Shoemaker, ad ditto.
M'Gowan, t ditto.
Remaining in Hospital last Report. 23
Admitted, 7
30
Discharged j
Dead 3 4.
Remain in a£>
Convalefcent9 6
Sick 20 \
Three of which are donbtful cases.
Burials in city burial ground since the re
turns made by Ms. Andrew Brown yester
day to this morning :
From the city and suburbs 3
From the city hospital 3
6
Stephen GirArd,
(Signed) Caleb Lownei,
John Connelly.
(circular.)
GENERAL ORDERS.
Philadelphia, -Augujl 29, 1797.
IN conformity to the Aft of Congrefj of
June 24th, 17,97, containing a requisition
fororganizing.armingand equipping, 10,696
J of the militia of this state (officers included)
-and in obedience to the commands of the
Governor relative thereto, you are hereby
ordered to hold in readiness to march at a
moment's warning, eight hundred and feven
tecn militia, from your brigade and to make
me returns ofyour progress therein as speedi
ly as pofiible.
By order of the Commander in Chief,
JOS. HARMAR, Adj. Gen.
To Lewis Nichola,
Brigade InfpeSor for the Ci- >
ty of Philadelphia. J
WASHINGTON LOTTERV, No. It.
List of Prizes and Blanks.
nßlh day's Drawing—Aug. 19.
No, Dolt. Ac. Do!i. No. Do!s. No. Dols.
'34 11368 3:097 *365*5
401 19 641 10 272 IO 626 10
1 416 10 725 10 374 10'37273 ,e
' 516 10 12220 IO 13609, 362
604 375 851 38161
1 731 '> 10 v 6i6 34210 182
, 913 ZO\ 703 384 266 10
'*B ISJOI 510 39212 10
295 10 62* 562 622
'• 3C91 672 758 40196 /
546 11*388 25247 383
74J1 693 10 554 10 6jo 10
783 10 905 885 10 887 IO
875 15083 26348 41m 10
3071 it 213 10 27212 10 588
238 358 489 10 68r
361 10 371 10 626 2a 43085 10
1 j 9 41 425 771 10 486 10
'[ 42*3 -628 29 28369 9' 2
5437 7°i 10 397 10 44410
876 16297 39.337 43*
6443 ,17979 '• 994 80<j
7*96 7JO 30516 25 897
302 767 IQ 905 954 IS
l ir -> 854 31131 45765
3-6 10 18335 311 10 776
379 »° 479 s** 831
. 993 974 605 846
8255 10 19104 6o» 10 46673 10
372 517 10 34086 30 47034 xo
Bi3 10 J0431 601 D 37
9906 528 650 975
540 625 35463 824
954 #lOOl 6,i3 963
998 fi6 686 4907*
[ 1134.2 !• 368 10 941 (
: 261 502 957
119 th day'« drawing, Aug. 11.
889 13069 38846 10 38365
1350 10 279 • 914 57■<
533 10 671 10 976 885
1 630 10 14183 29057 39436
1 879 10 555 133 451
r 575 5° 385 623
218 797 10 986 25 40222
' 3354 I 5 10 30509 10 447 20
607 17448 580 50 630
968 io 817 741 4153*
, 4064 18527 31&34 1® 836
726 19474 10 .123 JO 963
5460 10 31034 32677 41614 10
' 897 Bzo 10 33134 10 44180
'* 62 35 ,XU23 618 31c 10
550 30 764 720 332 10
> 660 805 34251 10 45844
7729 10 35914 825 to- 859
! iotk7 26109 10 876 10 4^699
2,22 908 35306 10 47'96
11099 27x83 328 10 48536 le
' 191 /
iac>37 98S 57397 49 11 ® 10
1 684 380-31 38085 .
855 10 461 3jß 10 675
; E'tor in the 117 th day—lfcft:ad of 48193 10
dols.—read 48163 10 ools.
Red Port Wine.
Just afrived, by the brijrlris, capt. Rhodes, frcai
Oporto,
* I Red Port Wine in pipes, hhds. and qua -«r ♦ .3»
1 6c cvt. Cork, for sale by
.1 Philips, Cramond, & Co.
! J®ijr -*• $FIVE DOLLARS REWARD, |
AN I av*p.y from the fnbfcriber, an indented (
Servant Girl, named Naxcy ndep.son, a
hovt twenty y<rars of age, fiiort, thick let psrfon,
With flioi * blaclf hair ; had on when ihe away,
n dark calico gown, an old black fiik cloak, and a
Mack fur feat. Wfrocvrr will icctire said girl, and
give iniormatmn thereof to the fublcriber, No. a,
Greejileaf alky,, or to the oflice of this Gaactte,
Iha'.l receive the aboV.r reward.
AH persons are f©rl>id harboring said girl, an
thCY will be dealt with as the.law dire<sls
MARY ANDERSON,
N. B. Said Girl is from Ireland, ai\d has been i*
tlvjl country but a short time ; flie wasunt to th#
work-house for mifconduA, whfcre <be wa* taken
lick and removed to the city-liofpicil, from which
place ftie made her escape.
vfl 3Q-
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest liiddtr, at the houle of Mr.
William I'vam, the sign of the Indian
in the city of Baltimore, on (he 15th
day of Oiflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bel!, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifler's-town and Weftminfler,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road nihs'throtigh a conflderabie part of
thele lands) the traifl begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reiller's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of ibout twenty-three miles fi'om Balti
more, and lie; on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in tracfts of One hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tradl,
some of them Irighly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr. fs,
Ai so
A tra£l of seven hundred acres of
lain!, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenlhurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Poni"onby,of Bladenfbu/gh, will shew ,
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
A tra& of land ®f about three hun- j
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half ot the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpefl, fron-. which may be fcen the
city of Washington, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Pntofnae river. Mr. Richard I'onfon
by, of Bladenlburg, will also (hew this land.
A liberal credit will b» given for the greatest
part of the purchase money, ihe terms will
he made known on the day of sale.
May 8 w?m
Just B eceivcd,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxes of Spices, consisting M
Nutmegs, Clovcsand Mace
For sale by ,
WILLINGS iff FRANCIS,
Pcnn street.
May 30 dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
Nd. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his prcfent house, has
been undej thcneceffityof poftpocinguutil thisdny
informing the gentlemen of the Ear generally thro*
the United States, that his spring importation of
law book* is now arranged and ready for iale, on
terras that he trusts will entitle him to the lme pre
freence he has experienced for tever&l years past.
Catalogues, combining the mod yaricd collec
tion ever imported i/!to thii country, are printod
and will be delivered on application.
' June %y. law 6w
City Commijfwntrs Office,
•June si, 1797.
IN purfoanre of an ordinance from the felefl
and common councils, pafl'ed the lid day of
May last, appointing the ciry corrimifiioners,
and prescribing their duties, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifts,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commifiioners, « hois to be individually
relponfible for the cleanlintU of tht fame, and
are as follow.
Driftridl No. f. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide 'of Spruce-street, un
der the fuperititendence of Natban Boys.
2. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under Ihe super
intendence ef Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fule of High-flreet, under the fupenntendenee of
Joseph Clxypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to tht
north fidr of Mulberry flrtet, under the fuptr
intcndcnce of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under ihe fuper
intendtnet of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common.
£5" A flatcd meeting of tht city commifiion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tucfday evening at 5 o'clock.
July t4. eoim
Stands for Draymen, &e.
In purjutnet of an Ordinance from the SeUfl and
Common Councils,bearing date the 21 d daj of
, April, 1797, providing for tbe appointment of
City Commijiontrs, Oc. Sefl. the 15th.
'"P'HE following places are fixed upon by the
X said City Commiffionert for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eastward, of Front-flrett,' on
feoth fides.
SafTafras, High,Chefnot and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward of Front-ftreet,on the no/th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide fr«m Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftrc*, tad fide from Vine-street to
Elrrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, wtfl fide from the north end of
Stumper's or Moore's (torts to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Cedar-ftrtet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, tall of Frost
street, south fide.
Dock-street, betwetn Walnut-street and the
flaj stone crossings, east fide, opposite George
' Orkley's. ,
Second-street, between Saffiifras and Vine
streets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Safiafras-ltreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
east fide- ' _
No dray or horse to (land within ten feet of
any pump.
StsINDS fOR HACKNF.T COACHES.
Pine-Itreet, north tide from Fourth to Fifth
111 Ctß.
FiTrV-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets, weft. ;
Branch-ftrect, north fide, between Third and
Fourth ltreeU.
July 14. mwikfim
A Literary Trent.
Jt/jl publifljed, hantlfomely printed on writing
paper, price 1 dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
| 'HE FORESTERS, an American Talc ; being
I a flquel to the history of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln afericsof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
tranl'aiSlions in America.
Th« following eitraiS from the Clavis Allegories,
fliews the principal characters that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
Hu Mother, theCfurchof England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewiv, the Kingdom of France
His Miftrefi, the Cld Cocflitutiop
Ilis bsw Wife, ihe National Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdoftn of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Fsrefters, the United States of Amerii a
Robert Lumber, Ncw-Hamplhire
John Codline, Mafiachufetts
Humphrey Plow (have, Conneiticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode I (land
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Ca:far, Newrjerfey
\yilliam Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caffimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grannifon, George Washington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
George Trusty, Geofgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
| This popular and entertaining fatirieal histo
ry of Amwica is attributed to the Rev. Dr Bel-
KNAr. It hasa great (bare of originality and a
boHnds with genuine humour. It is continued
down {o the prcfent time, and charaAerifcs those
late political tranfaelions which have caused so
much uneasiness in America. «
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, arid No. JO, Marke' ftaeet.
June %b. , §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editioni.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
Ne. IS, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the l»te arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, consisting of a variety of the latest and most
approved 1 aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the mod eitenfrve collection ev
er offered for t*le in this country. They thei afore
beg leave to notiu, that from the nature of their
connciSiensin Dublin, they are enabled to fell lriiti
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chaneerf, 4 vole.
Peake's Cases at Nifl Prius ; Ridgeway'j Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwiek* ; Floyer's Pro&ers
Pra&ice in the Eeclefiaftical Courts; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, 1
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice cipe& to receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Dnrnford and East's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, aad a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of PennfylvanTaj
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the prefa, and will be publifhcd,
with all convenient expedition, by Zi-CHAt
riah PoulsoN, jun. No. go, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propcfals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. aawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
A*«. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIITY TRUNKS neatly artorted, very low on
ftiort credit.
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting Honfe to nS.
4i. South Fifth-ftreet.
August V w&f6t
Lane after, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Sbtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requcfled to take notice, that
the partnership which has far some time fab
filled betweaa Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now diftblved: but, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jed from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Atoy gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this bulinefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, VTilliam Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to profecutc and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can pofiibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
those wn," wilh to patronire and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
..<nd Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippeniburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommodation ot the publit,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harriiburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from theuce and arrive at Harriiburg'
every Saturday, ,so that paflengers destined lor
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797.
N. B. This Line ef Stages ftaris from the
house of William Ferroc, in Lancaster, on every
Tucfday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clo:k, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives jt Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. "raws
City of' Walking toft.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
Fur the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-bouse io,ooo dollars,
St calh 30.000, »re 50,00b
1 ditto 15,000 & cast 45,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 divto 10,000 & cafb la,ooo 10,000
i ditto s>ooo & ca!h 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,000 10,000
i cash prire of »0,000
% do. 5,000 each,-are ■ 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00'J
»o do. 500 - - 10.000
po do. '*<*4 - - to,ouo
»oo do. jo ■; ~- - 10,000
400 do. »J - 10,000
I,coo do. 10 - I*o,ooo
15,000 do. 10 - >59,000
16,739 Prizes.
3iii6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Hivrht l&clUrs, 400,000
—— *
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan
tity of TiJfcts, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
tht list drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but OKI :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
mon«y or priies, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
-1 ets.
This Lottery will afford an eUgant specimen of
the priv»te buildings to be ert&ed in the City of
Waihington—Two beautiful defies are already
iclcfled for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; frah these drawings it ispropofed toert ok
two centre and r ourcorner buildings,as soon a* pos
sible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunatet adventurers, in
the manner deferibed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neceflarv expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for tht National Univcruty, to
be ereded within the city of Waihington.
The real fecuritics given for the paymant of the
Briirs, art held by the Prefidcn; and two DireA
ors of the Bank nf Columbia, and arc valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL hLQDQZT.
,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Well it Co. Baltimore j of Feter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
'and of Rickard Wells, Cooper's Terry.
I mwf
From tie Otfego Herald.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination of men in this
county have undertaken to enrich th«m
felves.by fabricating titles to sundry valuable trails
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
Yoik, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for whiah
trails of lsnd large sums of money have been paid
to theft- fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers *
It is therefore ju.l that public information fliould
be given, to the end, that the injured may feck re
drefi while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have been discovered are Tru
man Harrifoa, Joseph Witcomb, fa id now to rc
fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several otheri who go under fi&itious names. It is
supposed that the lauds offered frr fa Won thofejFa
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thoufaud
dollars. Such as we have afiual knowledge of are
as follows': Lots No. II and 11, ©tfegs patent,
thousand acres each, the aAual property of William
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and lames AveriU
and others, »i this State. There is Tome grounds
to fuppofc that the lauds of Richard WelU and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.—The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchaling those lands, as also to de
prive those men in future from imposing on indivl
du&fs, which their education and aildrefs have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has beta
a fhopkeepcr of fume note in this country.
The following affidavits will set in a clear point
of view the wickedness of those men, which when
the public have perused, will induce them to ei
cufc the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego.July agth, 1797.
I Thomas Kelly,of the County of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to Ggn a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
was the property of William I Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others ; and further the hid Joseph
and Truman did persuade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the icth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fiflitioui nam-,
there being no such perlon there. To this I mako
voluntary oath. TIHOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 1797, cameperfonally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the fubi'cribcr to the above af
fidavit, and made folcmn oath that it contains noth
ing but the truth.
ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
On the ißrh July, 1797, aame before me Jacob
Kibby, a pcrfou by me well kr.own and worthy of
• good credit, who on his solemn oath did fay, that
two of the parties abovementioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, fomc yme in the
winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acre? of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a (hare of the profits, on the
sale of said lands, for his so doin£ ; and that they
madeapplicationfcveral times for the fame purpose,
which ferrices this deponent as often refufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
could do no such thing ; whieh daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related among his
friends fevtral tines, previous to making ihis affi
davit. , JACOB KIBBEY.
Sworn before rac,
ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
Aug. 1. law4w.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
T7 1 LOPED from the ferviee of the fubferiber,
X-j on the 19th inllant, a negro man by the
hameof DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high; by trade
a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk work
man. His countenance is very good—When
spoken to, he coiiverfes with ease and confi
dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchased
tlw said fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
name he has teen advertised in the Kichmond
newspapers. During his last runaway trip (last
fummcrj he was employed a considerable length
of time, by fomc peri'on near Dumfries, from
which circumltauce, I conjecture, he has taken
another nothei n route I focewarm all perfoas
from giving hiro employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof veflelsand otheis, from
rarrying him cut of this Hate. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
miles of this city; and an additional sum, in
proportion to (he 4iftance he may be brought,
or the trouble and expctice the'appreheilder may
be at, in bringing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS,
N.B. His apparclwas of the usual negro kind,
but he had more cloaths than is customary for
them to poflels.
AD.
Richmsnd, June 11, 179]■
' Will be Landed,
Vrom onboard the fh*j> A&ive v Capt.#iAXß,£roin
nMiKurghj
-20 bales white Russia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Levjfcr,
North Fifth street, No. 34.
Time a-6. $
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY AND BROKER'S OFFICE \
No. 64 south Second'ftri rt.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 79th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets y/iil rife in propor
tion si ihe drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five lirik drawn tickcis, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the lall day of
drawing.
Cheek Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Waßjingtou, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridje and
Perlc omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the farainer.
The bulinefs of a Broker iii all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed with the
utruoft actenticn.
June a tu4?f
Erfkine's View of the War!
JUST PUBLISHED, ■
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Ce.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]'
A Vitw ef the Caufet and Confequ 'en
ces of theprtftnt War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Euskine.
May 15 . §
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W. Youk®, Bookseller, No. 5», South Se
. cond-ftrset,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
il of Francis Hopkinf®n, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, ComptroUer Gen
eral—ln one large S vo. toI. Price, io boards, 3
dollars.
W. Yovn« h»«i for sale, t general affortftient of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
egt, \\tell aflopted, and mi tided to the drawback if
averted. Juiy 7—*
SUBSCRIBER having appointed by
the Envoy tltraordinaiy and Mihlfler Plciu
potcntiary of his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
i(7r aflifting Brilifh creditors, and luch particular a
gents as thty may specially authorise, in f>rofecuting
their «laims before the cammiflioncrs for carrying ia
to effeft the ftxth article of the Treaty of Amity, Cm
nunc and Navigation between kit Britannie klajejly and
the United States of America, hereby gives nonce that
he has opened his office at his house the south east
corner of Chefaut and fifth ftracts, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or infirudions
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose oi bringing forward the fame agree- .
ably so the rulea and orders whieh the board naay
think proper to prefcribc.
And as it will be for the intcreft of all coaeeraad,
that the several claims be so dated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay whieh would arifc from
the necefltty of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from periods reading at a distance,
ibe general agent thiols it his duly to add, (for the
i direction chiefly of those, who, not haying empJoy
ed particular agents, may leave t|?e profeeution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to fci forth—
lft. The proper dcfcription aud fitnation of the
creditor or clauMLnt, end original debtor, refpcA
ively.
zd. The date andnature of the original centred or
debr.
3d. When, in'what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant was prevented or impeded,
by the provifton, operation or deleft of law, the
decifionsand practice of courts, or restraint of exe
cution, from rceoveriog payment of the debt io
question*
4th The lofi and damage incurred or fufiaincd,
in eonfequence of such impediments, whether the
fame pay have arisen from the infolveney, change of
Situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of
remedy from laple of time, or othercsufos impairing
the value and security of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impediments had notexilled.
Aod sth The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and a&ua!!y
have and receive full and adequate compensation" for
the losses and damages so fudaiued.
The general agent thinks if his duty farther to fug
ged that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and fupportcd by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as to theexiftonce
of the debts claimed, and fucb other circumftznces
as may be within their own knowledge refpc&ivcly.
And wherever the claimants in stating the nature of
ifteir evidence (which mull in every inftancc be the
bed Of which the ease if capable) have occafton to
refer te the tedimony of witneires a it will be proper
'to apprise the general agent cf the names and places
of reddence of such witoeffesand the fa&sto he eda
blifhed by their tedimony,
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth, 1797. d
Sale,
That well known place, calhd VANDS-tnirt's
Fitiy,
ON Nefhaminy cre«Jc, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premise* tre a large two fiory fione house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story flone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threlhing
floor, and l'ome out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegaVit situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jun&ion wiih the Delaware, and thence
acrojs to the Jersey (liore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Snbfcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vnv 24. jttawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGfi with much pleaf
ureand refptift, returns her lincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refiden«< in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending tp decline her
school, Ihe has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombfidge and mailers excelling in their
refpedlive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. JlmJti
The situation is perfectly healthy ; aqdmade
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the lioulc.
JuJI Published,
And to be had cf Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal fiookfcllers in the
city,price oue dollar, twinty-five cents,in hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMIJH BARTON, m. d.
June 3s. ; *
No. 183., 1
Diflrla of Pennfylvama, to <wi( :
L. S. ~R £ IT RKMEMBERED, that or, the
U fifteenth d,-y of June,,in the twenty
Gift year of the Independence of the United
State* of America, Jami s Woodi>ous?, of
the fa ill diftiitf, hath deposited in this office the
title of a bock, the whereof he claims a*
author, in the words following, to wit
" The Yonrij? Cheir,i!i's Pocket Companion,
" being a Befcriptinti of a Portable Labaratory,
"containing a Philosophical apparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Agents, by whiqh
" any person may perform an endless variety of
" a/iiuf.tigand inftrufling Experiments, design
" ed for the use of ladies and gentlemeo, and
" intended to promote tile cultivation of the
'< Science of Chemistry in the United States of
" America. By Jamis Wocdhoush, M. D.
" ProfelTbr of Cherr.iftry, in the Uriiverfity of
" Penniylvania, President of the Chemical So-
M cicty of Philadelphia, &c.
" At preferit every thing that is not denoml
" njted Cberniflry, is but a small part of a fyf
" tem of natural knowledge. ' ~
, Priefity on dir."
In conformity to the ail of the Couprefs of the
UnitcdStates, intituled, " Anafl for the encour
agement of Learning, by fecuringthe copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of such copieSj during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of tb'e
Diftrifl of Peonfylvania.
July 18. d^t —w»tf
No. 188.
DifiriS of Pcnnfvlvania, to •wit ••
(l. s.) K En " REMEMBERED, that on th«
-D twenty fijtth day of July, ih the twen
fy second year of .the independence of the United
States of America, John Finno, of the stUd dif
tridl,hath deposited in this office the title of abook,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor,, in the
words following, to wit
" Obfurvationi on certain documents contained
in No. V. and VI. of " The Hillory of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge "
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
I" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf."
fn conformity to 'he aft of the Congrcfs of the
Ucited States, eptituled, "An a# for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors sntf propri
etors of such copies, during the times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
CUrh qf the Di/lrici of J'tnnfylvania.
July *7* _ W4W '
a r ' »'•""* « "" ''
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT at Juneterm, 1797» » petition was
presented to the Court of Common pleas,
held at York Town, in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the instance ef Jamea Short, praying
the Caurt to supply a loft deed made by a cer
taia Andrew Hickrnluber, to HugJ)( Morrifon, ,
James Morrifon, and John SuspK, executors
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
acres of Land, situate in Menalftn
townlhip, in the eounty of York .-—All, per.
sons who have any objeAiom to Hlake totheob
jei\ of the f»id petition are defirefi to attend at
th* Court Route, in the town of Yofjc, 00 the
jth day of September next, otherwise the loft
deed will Ije supplied.
JOHN EDIS, Clerk.
Juljit. e»tSj
30 Dollars.Re war<J.
_ «.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser*
vants, GiffordjJally, a mulatto boy.about 17
years'of age, a sim light built aSive fellow, con
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftiajn coatee
and trowfer*, a high crowned hat, fine (boes &€.
Allan Hcllons, a black man, about 14 years of
»2e, five Cect seven or eight inches high, a thick set'
buih fellow, particularly about the breech;
hacTon a sailor's blue jacket lined with swanskin,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high croweed
hat, csarfe shoes, scc.; etch of~thcm Irnii ft. mul
fliirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for tbe runaways, or if dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, on delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year from Lewik
Town, in the County of Suffcx, ftite »f Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31. mtuAf^w
c A U T t .0 K.
WHEREAS Richard Lake has been at
tempting to fell a certain mefluage or ten
ement and lot of ground, situated on the south
fide of Vine-lltreet, in the eity of Philadelphia
containing in breadtb, on Vine-street. flxteeß
feet, ahd in depth, southward, seventy five feet,
bounded on the north fide by Vine-ftieet, on
the ealt 'by ground late of Samuel Rhodes and
Saraii his wife, on th«fouthby ground late ef
John Pejnberton, and on the Weil by another lot
then about ta be granted to Hulings—
This is-therefore to caution all pcrfji s against
purchasing the above defcribfd property, the
fame having been mortgaged by the said Rich
ard Lake to William Spade.
SARAH .SPADE,
July .14 eoitvr
Mujical jnjlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, jircfi.Street.
HARPER, harpticbord, grand, portable gratid,
fidl-fcoard, pier table and square piano forwe
maktrfronl London, returns ti aaks to hie friendo
ar.d the public, for their liberal encosragunent,
and hopes that by hifrafiidnity and attention to ev
ery branch of his buCHefs, to nr erit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newest
and moil approved plans, vith patent,
swell, and French harp llop, whreh he fkttei s
himfelf will lie fosnd on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be if not fuperiorto any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper.. Any inflr,u
m«nt purchaled of him, if aot approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. 13. All kinds of Musical inftrumonts made,
uned, and repaired with the greatpft accuracy,
dispatch, and on the meft reasonable terms, Up
ready money only. >
Secondhand Piano Fortes taken in eJthangd.
May ;
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from the fubl'criber on the fecj
ond day of■ this inft. July, a Mulatto
named Will Bowzer, about forty years of age,
five feet seven or eight "inches bigh, rather
chunky made ; had on when he went away, 4
drab colored cloth coat, llriped purple
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
said fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expe&cd he has
made4owards Jones'* Neck, in tbe Delaware
State.—Any person apprehending tbe Slid fel
low, and fecurmg him so that I can get him a,
1 gain, shall receive the above reward if tateM
Out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if ixT
the county, and all re-afonabi# charges if brO't
home.
JESSE REED,
Queen Ann's County, Maryland.
'Juty'3' 'wjt