of *e Sniteu States AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1637.J
SALESBY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS.
r Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56,
foutb Front-flreet,
j Afternoon—Footman & Co. N». 6f
( South Front-ftrcet.
Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
_. ~ \ Auiftion, No. 73fout'h Front-street.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
183 High-street.
WtdAtrda* J Afternoon—Peter Senfon, No. 74
n caste/day £ fomh Third . ftrcet
cri, a ' ( Forenoon—Edward Fox.
Jburjttqy £ Afternoon—John Connelly.
f, \ Forenoon—'William Shannon. . '
r ' i J Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
To be fold at the Merchant's Cof
fee-Houfe,
ON wednel'day the 15th of December at 7V
clock in the evening, one «ertain bond or
obligation dated July 16, 1795, signed by John
Love of Alexandria for himfelf, Jo&ah Watson
and Samuel Love for Virginia currency,
payable on the 3 ift of Oflober lalt past.to Stock
ley Donellon or his afligns—which Bond the
said Donelfon afligned to James Giant, \
whole power of attorney this sale will he made.
For further particular's appl) to the fubferiberj.
FOOTMAN and Co. Auctioneers.
Nov. dtijtbd
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
f,'lf not bis are disposed of at private sale)
Monday the hrftdtyof January nexi, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Co
ffee House, in Philadelphia, Tw»ntv-Six Thoufani
Seven Hundred ai.d Ei°lity acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pcnnfylvania and the Su'quehanna, now, or late
in the townlhips of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One fourth of the purchase
money t« be paid at the time of sale ; for the residue
credit of one, two and three months, will be given,
on mtereft and good feturity.
D c 4. 3 tawtS.
To be bold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Monday the firft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Th.ufand Nine Hun
dred and Thirty-Nine acres of LAND in Green
county, Commonwealth of Pennfylvania,on th.3 Wa
ters of Filh and Wheeling Creek, and teu Mile Run.
Thefc lands are fertile, well timbered and abound in
coal i they were {fold ten years ago for 51. per acre,
patented eaily in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
tented in i7q» | the greatest part of them were fur
v«ved in 1763.
Thi» traft is between the Ohio and Monongahels*,
very convenient to water carriage—about 19 miles from
the town of Walhington, and from 1410 16 from the
villages of Greenlburgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the purchase money is to be paid at the time of
sale ; for the icfidue a credit of one, two, and three
months will be given, on interest and good security.
Dec. 1. >3"wtJ
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, has seven years y«t
to fcive ; he is an excellent house servant, aAiv»
and healthy. Enquire of the Printer.
Detember ». d»w
T0 Gentlemen who intend J pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
eontagion. Oil. 17. —dtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpefl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years refidente is
Philadelphia; and assures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpeil ive profrfli ons.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- ' s»nfrf
Thefituation is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extenfiv# garden and lot.
pf ground adjoining the houle. __
This Day Published,
A»d to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, «o :V «-r of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price yMs of a Dollar,
ObJervations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of
ti The History of the United State* for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge or specu l ation apaintt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secret a»y of the Treasury, is EULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise statement
of the base means praftifed by the Jacobinsof the
United States to asperse the characters of those
psrfons who are confideredas hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also centains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venablp, on the fub
je<Sl of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
♦hat the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraay on the part
of Che latter and his associates to extort money.
£s• A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchaserS, for
sash. Orders to beaddreffed to Mr. Yoonb.
Augttft 25.
Landing,
From on board the (hip Edward, at Walnut
ftreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews.
November j. eotf
"to~be sold,
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country,
That three story Brick House,.
No. 157, north Third ftrcet. Apply at the of
fice of this Gaxette. n»v 29- w&s 4 w
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENJNG, DECEMBER 7, 1797
For Londonderry,
The American Ship
. BOSTON PACKET,
p'V/£SSTSftSs' Copperthwait, Matter,
SLjGSgSS&fcSNoW lying at Mifflin's Wharf,
near Vine-flreet—Has elegant accommodations for
paffcngeri—will fail, weathir permitting, on or
about the jcth inft. having all her cargo engaged
ready Hgo on board. For passage only, apply to
the captain.
Smith & Ridgway,
No 4, North Water fttreet.or to
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
No. 5, South Water ftrcet.
December I § lot
i 1 or Amsterdam,
? EDWMD,
J ames Wickham, Majler,
EXfECTED to fail in a few days, having two
1 thirds of her cargo already engaged,and near •
ly on board., For Freight or Pamige, apply to
theMaller on board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to
John Donnaldfon,
No. ai, Walnut-ftrcet.
November ?8. dßt
Jror Amrterdam,
The Ship
sjmFARMER,
John WCoilom, Mailer;
fail in a few days, the
j, art of her cargo hcing
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, orpaf
fage, apply to the matter on board, at Walnut
ftrcet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Botir
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac,
Sauterne, > Wiaes in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 14. $
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
CyiC. 1 A Large proportion of her
"yVgrilßfefl XjL cargo being ready to go on
board, is expeflcd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN Co.
November i%. §
FOR LONDON,
PENN,
James JosrAH, Mailer.
THE Oaip is now taking on board her cargo, and
will fail in all next week. For freight or passage
apply to the captain, or to
Jejfe Robert Wain.
nov IT. $
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE
S U K H T y
Whliam Wbittik, Mailer.
A strong good vessel, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenbcrgir's •wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov »8. §
For bavannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain
new c *celte»t
accommodations for passengers
Sails on the loth of December. Fbr Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS b* SIMSON#
IVbo have to «iifrofe of y
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLL«Y WOOD.
November 18. y
, For Hamburgh.
JT"*- The Brig MARY,
Petek York, mailer,
t Lying at Ruffel's wharf, near Pine
! iVffilfett, is now ready to take in a
t Cargo, and will fail in tan days.
For Freight, or Passage, apply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
Novembts 16. dtf
Rundle & Leech,
Have jull received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut-llreet,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. bed house CO A LS
Queens' WARE in cases, assorted
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
THFV HAVE ALSO
WmSL» For SALE or CHARTER,
P E G" G Y,
Burthen lij tons, in excellent 'condition, and
may be sent to Tea with little cxpenceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILL-AM,
Burthen aoi tons,
november 16.
For Sale or Charter,
The faft failing brig
Brothers,
Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent single dcck'd veflel, burthen about
1600 barrels—not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the matter
on board, or to
Joseph Anthony "iff Co.
no r. diw.
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Chefnut Street.
the ship
COMMERCE,
Captain Richard Waistcoat,
Ir From Liverpool is now I'.ifcharging
at Mcrri-'» wharf, near, the Drawbrijge, where
owner* of goods on freight, will pleafc speedily to
fend their permits. Said veff.l will direilly alter
take iu freight on very low terms for Boston. Ap
ply to die captain, or to
lfaac Harvey, jhn.
No. 5, South Water Street.
A few tons of stone, or sand ballast wanted.—
Apply as above.
November 27 §iot.
For Charter,
THE SHIP
John Bulkley,
Samuel Volans, Majler.
-trrzl vessel is built cf live oak
-*» X and cedar, of about 30c 0
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
Jeffe £sf Robert Wain.
0«5l. 31. $
For Sale or Charter,
The Snow
SP good hope,
1 carry about uoo barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
It frir. l apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, bouth Second-street.
Who have for fal^—prime St. Crt)ix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Tcneriffe win?.
November 7. dtf.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By Ihip Edward, from Madeira, and Betfcy and
Peggy, fr" 3l Opnrto, in Pipes and Hoglheadi,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SAL*,
The Ship
AMITY,
Four thousand barrels burthen,
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
likewise,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above veflels at South street
wharf. eoim. Nov. 1.
Philip Nicklin iff Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
15 hhds. Jamaica do.
30C0 piece, of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chells
Quicksilver in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hoglheads
Teneriffe Wine in pipes
Old ted Port Wine in hoglheads
Sail Canvaf9, assorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Manchester Goods, confining of Dimities,
Mullincts, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c.
200 crates Queens' Ware, assorted
Nails, assorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in caiks
A quantity of writing Slates, slate InkStands, &c. :
100 quarter caflcs Gun Powder
Ibr) have also for SALE or CHARTER, !
TheJhip MOLLY, burthen 340 toHt, a
good vessel, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
The vhole of the above vessels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. § »"> ic. j
House and Lots, in Bordentown. \
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story Honfe.
with the Lot on which it is *re£ted, situated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The heufe is forty two
feet front, and in neat order. The K>t contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet 011 the main
street, and extends with the fame breadth tobask
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, feparatcd from the former by back street.
One third only of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, >nd lor the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold fre# •-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title givenf
For farther particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near,
the premises, who will Ihew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-Areet.
December 2. jawif
James Ss* Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
store to No. 54, South Front Jlreet, next d.or to Ed
ward Fox's Auilion Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general assortment of
European & 'Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Pcnn, &c. &c.
Ofl. 17. ■ A
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Sccondjlreet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. Oil 27. —4 W
ROSS Iff SIMS ON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bag* and boxes
Jamaica, "J
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, rod
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
Odl. 27. J
Landing this day,
From on board ths schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Master,
80 hhds. and / T ama i C a RUM,
12 pipes ) J
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
uovember 9. §
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezcth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Sjftte* Dollars, at Wm, BLACKBURN's i.ottcry
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-tlreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lotterys at TVw
Dollars, whe're check books are kept ior register*
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfoa Lotteries, and informa
tion where ticket* may be had in mod of the 1 otte
riea authorif«d by law in any of the StatC9of
Union.
N. B. The bufineft of a Broker, in-buyirfgand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
November §
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
most refpe.'lful complimentrto his form
er employers an I the citizens in general, and re
turns his most grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetieneed for
thele twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school will be
open'd on Wednesday the 23d instant, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-flreets. at 10 in the morning
for yotin£ ladies, and i in the evening for youijg
gentlemen.
tir Pracflifing Balls will commence on Tues
day, (sth December, and be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
Nov. 17.
DANCING.
Mr. FRANCIS,
OF the New Theatre, reff>«&!uUy informs the
public, that he no longer means to continue
his Dancing' School in conjunction with Mr. Byrne,
hut will open k separately early in December, and
hopes still 'O receive the accuflomed patronage with
which he has been honore l, and which it will be
his conflant endearor to deserve.
Vrivate parties may be. inftru&ed at hit own
house, No. 70, north Eighth street.
November 29. eotf
NOW LANDING,
At Suuth-ftreet Wharf,
she Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Batayia.
About 300 tons firft quality Java Coffee (th«
whole having been fele&ed)
go tons Java Sugar, in canisters and bags
10 legures of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Clores
TOR SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sede,
Just landed from (hip Amity, from Jamaica.
10® hhds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 13. d6w
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. Hastii, from Bourdeaux ;
CUrct in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive OK in bafcets of 12 bottles each,
White and cploured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sale &y
JAMES I ATIMER, jun.
71, South Wharves.
Who has also for Sale,
A few qr, Caflcs Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. d2w
" N u T I C E.
THE partnerthip between John Instone and
James Bacon, under the firm oflnftoneand
Bacon, is this day dissolved by mutual consent.
All persons who (Ipnd indebted to fa d firm are
requested to make immrdiafe payment of their
rslpe&ive accounts, to John Sk,v»in, on l.anden
burger's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all persons havinc any demands a
gainst the said firm, are deAed to bring in their
accounts immediately to him for settlement.
John In/lone,
James Bacon.
November 90. eodtf
BEEF.
Prime Beef, fit for India voyages, for sale by
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, High-street.
Also, about fifteen hundred weight of Bees-
Wax. dtf Nov. 15, 1797.
Library Company of Philaaelphia.
THE Members of the I.ibrary Company of
Philadelphia are hereby informed, that the Libra
ry will be open on Monday next, the 4th of De
cember, for the reception and delivery of books.
Those who negleil to return the books, which
had bi'en taken out previous to the firft of Septem
ber lail, in the course of the ensuing week, wril
be fined as the rules direst.
The Loganian Library
Will also be opened at the fame 'ime, for the like
purposes.
N. B. A few copies of the catalogues of the
books belonging to these institutions uiay be had
at the Library.
Z. POULSON, JON. Librarian.
Library, november 30.
All Persons
Having any demands aga>nft tl»e Eftete of the
late Captain George Irwiu, are requcfled to
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
and those who are indebted to' said estate are so
Kcited to make immediate payment to
SaRAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
no v. 29 1797- $
NOW LANDING,
From on board the Ihip Farmer, lying at Harper's
« Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wine in do.
For Sale, apply to
John Whitefide Ess Co.
No. 138, S arket-ftreet.
Also, on hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes
Fine old Antigua Runt
A few cales (il Claret, of a foyeriit quality.
novenibjr 29. §
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bkles Coifrs
40 do. Baftas
11 do. Mamoefdjr
17 do. Chintz
7 do. 1 ookery *
1 do. Gorah*
25 do. Maragutigees
3 do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzie
' I box lepers
7 do. Umbncllas
25 pipes fineit partioular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage 1795.
MORDECAI LEWJS.
December c, 10W4W
BUSH-HILL, "
December I, 1797.
THE partnership between us, is this day dil
folved by mutual confcnt.
William Bates,
V_ William Parley.
By JOHN MILLER,' jun. & Co.
No. 8, Ch.lnut-llreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
AmongCt which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baftas. v Sannas
Guxzenahs Tanda Coffaes
Guzzifs Emertics
B!ue Cloths Calicoes?
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongd them are a great proportion of the
manufa&ures of Patna.
December i. $
7 0 be Sold\
A Bill on Richmond,
[Payable at fight. Inquire at this office.
Dec. I. 2t
- The Subscriber intends to make
application for the ler.enal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bait of the Uniced States, (landing in the name
of A. B. No. 5004, dated July it, 1797. the fame
having been 1011. ( JOHW GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1.
To be foldy
AN F.LESANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c, situate on the Irilh tradt lane, in the
townlhip of Meyamenfing, about one mil; from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements'upon this place, for taste and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
Mrs. GRATTAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of the City, that the propoles having
Four CONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Si* Dollars each Subscriber, for one Ticket of
admittance diuing the season,
No Subscribers Tickets transferable.
Two Dollars a single Ticket.
The Concert to begin at half past fix, and the
Band to attend for the Ball at eighfr—the expence
of which Mrs. Gbsttan engages to discharge.
The Concerts will begin asfoon as the Bandar,
rives from New York.
(Js* Subscriptions received, and Tickets deliv
ered at No. 191, Market street.
November 29. §rvfr
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufailured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Barley j Philadelphia Porter, Beer*
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Aie ;
London Porter ; red, Port and Lisbon Wine,
l'uitalile for exportation or heme consumption.
The highest pi ice given for Mustard-Seed.
Also forfale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors ; a baleo£»
Fullians, Shawls, &c, for f*le hv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-flreet.
*oi>. »y. m.&ih.t.ij.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bout deans Brandy
Tencrijje Wine
Molajts
Georgia anil F.Srolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hogjhead of paiit
brushes.
N. Cs( y. Frazer,
No. 9j, South Front Street.
Nov. " dint■
"Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THJS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. o&ave.
By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 5 2, Second ttreet, the corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
(Prict, in boards, 87 I 1 Ctnti J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftablithed in ths element*
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
With an attempt to correiS some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly fe!e<fted from the records of their prailice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William 2~atbs & Cuas. Maclean.
To which is fubjoineti, a Trealife en the a&ioa
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indire£l debility
Andadiflertntion on the sources of Epidcraicand
Pestilential diseases; in which isattempted toprove
by a numerous induilion of fails, that they ne
ver arile from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain Rates, or certain vicifliiudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Nov. it. St2t
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
fevea miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and poffeflion had in a few weeks.
Part «( the purchase-money being paid, a reason
able credit will be allowed for ths remainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
november 3 mwfsf .
['Volume XIItxosrwxr. n rf wwaw
JUST RECEIVED, W 7fcrn-Tort, j
And now opening, by GEORQIt pOS.vOW, *Na
~*}■' i (path Third flreet
An rxterifive and general aflortment o? j
HABERDASHERY, viz:
£ett London mUt Pins Gaiiaon*.and ferrets •
Common do. do.' AVorflcd.Bindings, a (Tor- '
«iU»-14&\c\fupar ;pistenc ted colours
val.ifje c!-.,idcl N\ed!cs Imperial, ciiper. an 1
JJuns Tl.rj id no. 6to Thrfad Tap3ji
40, regulariy afTortid V: hitc
14f1e.40.n0. 110 to 590, Black rxj coloured Chi
regulaMy a.Torjcd rtf'? i bit ds I
Coloured co Sattin and figured do.
PUck feeing Silks Black Velvet, (-4 to izd
Coloured. and Tttetft. Velvet & pclon Sau.fis
Silk and cotton Wires. French Canjbitwk
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch d.».
Shift MouKU auaWin:* Plain gilt and • plated
Ll-ick bruA Feathers Buttons
And a pomplcat a(Tort;nent of C®ods. fuitab'e j
tdtht and approaching season, at reduced »
■ P'ko tHySITIOiNI.
A hand! me and roomy houfip, with a quanti
fy r,omi iand, wi*hin a few milts of rbi«ciry.
A Heufe, in en eligible (ituaftion, and ievcrai '
-Lcfs in the cry
A valuable body of Land on the river Ohio.
- tfo, m«.ny cf f;tiC Landt (military J
. *vb*o D^ar l^e Ohio", on the Miami and {
Hivr-rs
» irks arc all /clear, and will be made with un- J
yxc*:ption-vblc fe> urity. ,1
A r .ji "ifcjjt of this city is defcrous of exehan*-[
frig; this property lor Goods—Hall or Weft India
v .v'. ' > vte ertcd. *
If the specie value of those Lands at «v dfftance,
eanrtrt b£ nfcejtfained fitiafa&orily, they stall be
rated ar f*idh a [rice as the purchaser may have it
zt hi< option 10 murn them at t! e fixed price with
intctfeft. at tfca expiration of twelve months.
left vath the Editor fhali be attended to.
» cctm -i»r 6. §
Gesntcel Boarding Si Lodging.
\ Family rviy be accommodated with a Draw*
A ii*«j'Roora, two Bed Chambers, and luitabie
• accoma'option for fe*vanta—at .00. 53, north
fourth (*r,et. _ Dfc. s—»tt»5 —»tt»
FOX SALE—by the
An elegant aflartmeni of Madrafs
HANpkERC-}fcUEFS. liy che b»!f.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
nVjv. it. N § Penn-fl.reet
for sale 7 '
9 y thi sußscßisens, Np. 21, P^no-flceet',
The Cargo of Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal, ■
CtSj'firg of
Baftas, of various qualities k prices
Coffees Purjura Cloth*
Sanah* <suzz y do.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjib9
Chintz ami Calicoes MuJmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Patwa Hhkft.
Ginglrams do.
Guzzffnas Bandannpcs
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcocs , Chopp- Romals
Salffatchy*! Sr.oty do.
Gillie PerHausof variouscolours
Mock Puticiits
20c Jons SUGAR -
90,000 ib. PEPPER.
Witlings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open and expofedto falett
that conrmailioui tlore the north' well corner of
Market and Fourth street. Nov. xo.
L A N D I N G,
FrOni on board thelhip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, frem lx>n<Jon,
60 toss of the best clean Ruflia
HEMP
60 rafks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
Forjale by the fubferibers, No. 21, Fcnn-ftreet.
Willings y Francis.
Q<?>. 31. d
Just arrived.
From Port-au-?iinc«, and for Sale by the fiAfcri
bers, No. ii, Penn-ftreet,
6*2 hogflieadi,"^
jSSS (Prime Coffee
646 bag» J
Witlings iff Francis.
o<a. ig. »
Engliih Grammar,
The fee ond edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different classes of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
fervatioßs for alt fling the more advanced ftudentt
Co write with perfpiruity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This i» a publication of much merit, and fully
anfweis the profeflions in the Title. The appen
dix contains some of the best rules for writing e
legantly, with propriety, that we recolleS to
have seen."
yitntklf Review, July 1796.
" T -his Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to comnrendatory li»tice. its materials have been
carefully and judiciously feleiSed ; its arjangement
is diftinil and well adaptsd to the purpose of in
ftru<ftion and its expreffioa is simple, perspicuous
and accurate, &Cl"
' Sec the eharalUr at large in the Analytical
Review, July 1796.
F.nglilh Exercises,
Adapted to the Gramm.ir lately pu'olilhed by
l.iodley Murray, consisting of exemplification of
the parts of speech, iuftaoc'csof fallV' orthography,
violations of the rules of fyiuax, defeats in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpeftirg
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f«r the benefit
of private learners, a« well as for theqfe of fchooU.
" W« lta»e been much pleafcd with the perusal
ef these Exercises. They occupy with dirtinguifli
ed excellence a most important place in the fcicncc
of the Englilh language; apd as fucb, we can
Warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
attaisi/iir correilDefs and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnlj 1797.
The above Boohs are forfale at Josirn & J ames
Chuk'hianks book flore, No. 87, Market (Irect.
December 1. 3tawiw.
> N~O~T I C E.
Af,l. persons cor.cerncd are l<»r?by notified,
that the fnlaftfiher intends to apply for {a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the Uititsd Stat«s—He for
warded them under cover of a letter aiidreffed to
John Anflcy.of London, by the ship Bacch'.is, c. pr.
George, which left this port in June lail for Ton
don. But that fbip having been captured oc her
pafiage and sent to France, the above letter and in
eiofore6 have failed in their deftinatiou.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four {hares, dated January 1 ft, 1797, and
issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
PbilaJilpbi*, mvember 8.
PHIL 'A DELP I! IA ,
THURSDAY EVKNIMO, DF.CRMBRR 7.
From late LONDON PJPER S.
7he foil owing is taken frmt an account
Ij an illuflrioUi Envl'yh Traveller in Ger
many and Turkey.
" I have already pafled a large part of
have seen -alj ih it is remarlcabje
in Cologue, Frankfort, Wnrtfburgh, and
Nuremberg. It is ir.'pofTlble not to obforve
the diflertilcc between the free towns, and
tiro Ce under the government ofabfolute Prin
ces, as all the little frfvereigna of Germany
are. tn twie firlt there appears an air of
commerce and"plenty. The streets are well
fcuilt, and full of people, neatly and plain
ly drefTed. The Amps are loaded with m?r
chandife and the commoffalty are clean and
cheerful. In the other, you fee a fort of
(hafcby finery, a number of dirty people of
quality tawdered out ; narrow nasty streets,
out of repair, wretchedly.\h ; n of inhabitants
and above half of the common fort afkiiig 1
alms.—l cannot help fancying one under ;
the figure of a clean Dutch citizen's wife,
and the plher like a poor town lady of pjea
fure, painted and ribboned out in her head
drtfs, with tarni(hed fitver-laced shoes, a
ragged under petticoat, a mifcrable mixture
of vice and poverty.
" The journey we made from Belgrade
to Adrianrple, cannot pofiibly be pasTed by
any out of a public charafter. The desert
woods of Servia are the common refuge of
thieves, who rob-fifty in a company, so that
we had need of all our guards to secure us ;
and the villages are so poor, that only'force
could extort from themnecefTsry provifiont.
Indeed the Janniflaries, had no mercy on
theirpoverty, killing allthepoultry'aiidrheep
they rould-firtd, without asking to ■ whom
they belor.'jre 'wljllo the wretched owners
durst not p«t in tneir claim,' for fear' of b«"'
isg b4? Wi. ! . Lambs just fallen, geese and
kutkie» big with egg, all massacred without
diftin&ion ! I fancied I heard the complaints
of Melibceus for the hope of his Hock. When
General Officers travel, it is yet worse.
These oppressors are not content with eating
all that is to be eaten belonging to the pea
sants ; after they have 1 crammed themselves
and their numerous retinue, they have the
impudence to exaft what they call teeth money
a contribution for the use of their teeth,
worn by doing them the honour „f devour
ing their meat. This in literally and exaft
ly true, however extravagant it may seem;
and such is the natural corruption of milita
ry Government, their religion not allowing
of this barbarity any more than ours does.
" The Government here is entirely in the
hands of the army. The Grand Siegnior,
with all his absolute power, is as much a
flavc as any of his ftibjefts, and trembles at
a Janiflary'i frown. Here is, indeed, a
much greater appearance of fubje&ion than
amongst u»; a Miniiler of State it not spoke
to, but upon the knee; should a refledion
upon his conduft be dropt in a Coffee-houfe
( fpr they have fpieg every where), the house
vvogld be razed to the ground, and perhaps
the whole company put to the torture. No
huzzaing mobs, patriotic pamphlcts,or pub
lie debates about politics; none of our
harmlcfs calling names!—but when a Minify
ter here displeases the people, in three hours
time he is dragged even from his master's
arms. They cut off his hands head and feet
and throw them before the palace gate, with
all the refpeifl in the world; while the Sul
tan (to whom they all profefs an unlimited
adoration) fits trembling in his apartment,
and dare neither defend nor revenge bis fa
vorite. This is the bleficd condition of the
moil absolute Monarch upon earthy who
owns no law but his will.
" I cannot help wishing, in the loyalty of
my heart, that th# parliament would fetid
hither a (hip load of your palfive and obedi
ent men, that they might fee arbitrary go
vernment in its clearest, ftrongeftlight,where
it is hard to judge, whether the Prince,
People or Ministers are mojl mifcrable. I
could make many reflections on this fubjedf;
but T know your own good sense has alrea
dy futoifhed you with better than I am ca
pable of.
" Mudh has been said concerning the in
fidelity of the Turkilh women, belonging to
families of quality. During my stay at Pe
ra, I heard of but one circumstance. A
young Venetian served in the (hop of an A
pothecary at Conftantiuople, whom a Tur
ki(h lady, attended only by her (lave, came
to consult, and was (hewn into ancthtr room
leaving the appientice and the fair CircaiTian
alone. It is said that nothing then pafled
between them. In a few days returning
with!: mistress, and the fame opportunity
recurring, (he opened her heart, proposed
elopement, and promised much treasure.
She kept her word, and they disappeared
without subsequent detedtiiin. Upon disco
very , the punifliment of theft: lovers would
have been horrible: he would have been im
paled alive!l!—and (he drowned in a sack!!!
" Infidelity or licentions women, is a fub
jeS of the fevertft crimination amongst the
Turks, and their punifliment of it is nothin-*-
less than gross barbarity. That branch of
police is under rhe jurifdiftion of the Cap
tain of the Guard, and many inferior officers.
When any of ihefe mifcrable girls are ap
prehended, for the firft time they are put to
hard labour, <and ftridtly confined ; but for
the second they are recommitted, and many
at a time tied up in sacks, and taken in a boat
to the Pier-point, where they are' mercilessly
thrown into thefca ! ! !
" One (hudders to relate how many of
these vi&img are taken out into the sea, at
the dead of night, and committed to the
deep.
" The greater part of the wretched fuf
ferers, as may be well imagined, become
raving mad before reaching this last inhum
an aft of the (hccking •'y ; and such
of them at unhappily have iticfglh and firm
,n-'fs of i:ervC9 to retain fheir (enfej till the
horrible catastrophe, are oiily refcrvcd to
expe- ltnC j jnyj-f acutely, iu tJve mod dread
ful lingering con valfivc the bitternefa
■>f a tpoufand deaths, from the horrors sa
vagely infliftcd on these ill-fated halplefs fe
males, under the faiiftion of this diabolical
gotCtument."
" ' —'
she following cafe of a trial 0:1 the Tole
ration aft, which occured lad sfllzes for
the jVpunty of Sucry, is of fufTicient im-
to juftl/y us in giving it to the
jpublic at some .length.
THE KING i>. Wlt-LIAH YFOMAN.
The indiftment charged the defendant
with "whcioufly and coritemptuoufly coming
into, a Goagrygation of pioteilant dissenters,
lawfully assembled for religious worship, and
»nKjf% difquitting and disturbing them.
Mr. puriicy condufted the
He ft a ted to the jury the act of parliament j
011 wtiic'h die,indidbneut was founded (the
ToT?'ratio;i Aft ) ; that the diflenting con- I
gregatfon, who were the prosecutor, were
under the from the (rtqwent dist
urbances they had experienced, of profecu.-
ing fonie one individual, and they had there
fore brought the defendant befour a jury to
anfwef 'for the offence of which he had been
guilty.
The law prote£lcd dissenters in the ob
servance of that mode of worship which was
agreeable to their confeiences, provided
they complied with all the reqnifitcs of the
law, and that in thjt cafe the congregation
had done so.
That on the foujth of December lad they
were engaged in religious worship, when
the defendant thought fit to diftnrb thtm
in a very grefs and indecent manner, the
particular account of which the jury would
receive from the witnesses, and if they be
lieved'thofe witnesses they could have no
hefitstitiri In pronouncing the defendant
guilty. \
Tkat the congregation were not aftuated
by any motives ; they had no re-
to and therefore when the
jury had taught the defendant by their ver
diift tHst ft* iritift riot perfid in this fort of
comduA; they would be cantcnt with an a
pology froln him, and, unless he fhonld a
gain «iflend, l thcy would not exaft the pun
ishment which tht law had denounced.
T\Vo witnesses graved that a congrega
tion of protestant dissenters were assembled
for religious worship, at a meeting-bouse, at
Ryegate, in Ssrry ; that while the minister
was preaching, the defendant employed
himfelfin muttering, loud enough to dis
turb those who were near him, and after do
ing so for some time, he got up and walked
towards the door, when, turning round, he
said, in a loud voice, to the minister, " damn
your eyes ; go to hell you b , I never
knew a dog go tohell without barking yet."
Upon bung, cross-examined they proved
that no provocation was given by the min
ister to the, defendant.
Mr. Knowles theo addressed the jury for
the defendant, but called no witnesses.
Mr. Justice Buller.—•** oehtlemin of the
jtrry,-tftit ir an indi&ment founded on a
ftatote wbicK passed in the rtign of king
William anil queen Mary, and known by the
name of the Tuleration A£h
" The objeft of this dsftute was what e
very man in his heart mud commend, to
leave every man to worship God in his own
way ; to follow tht diftates of his' own con
ference, and to observe them in such a man
ner as he thinks right, he not doing mifchief
to any other member of the community.—
It is undonbtedly to be wifhedthatgn indul
gence should be granted to all ranks of men.
" The ground of this profecutipn is, that
when this dissenting congregation were met
for the purpose of worship, the defendant,
Yeoman, thought fit to go inta this con
gregation, disturb them in that worship, and,
according to the evidence, to insult and a
buse the minister to a great degree.
" To be fuVe there cannot be more inso
lent or more abusive conduft, than that
proved on the defendant. It is said by his
Counsel he did not mean to diflurb the
congregation- Disturbing the minister, who
was then performing his duty as the minis
ter of thai congregation, is the greatest in
sult lhatlcitjkl be offered to the congrega
tion. TWothers, who were silent, were
nit ef.abufe, the mod likely ob
jeft oFibdfe was 'the minister in the aft of
preaching.
" It is proved tlijtt tlxjre were no words
used on the part of the minister that should
give him any provocation. But it should
be remembered that when people assembled
together in a place of worship for the pur
pose of paying their duty to the Divine Be
ing, a man, who does not agree in opinion
with them, is not at liberty to go into that
assembly and quarrel with the minister bc
caufe he does not happen to utter the doc
trine which is agreeable to his mind. The
objeft aud purpose of theirbeing allowed to
have such a meeting-house is, becau e they
do r.ot agree with the regular church;
they have ideas peculiar to themselves, and
they have as much right to be pleased with
their mode of worship as we have with ours,
and they protected by the law in wor
shiping God in their own way as much as
we are, if they comply with the requisites
of the law. Then these people were doing
no mere by law itey had a right to
do, when;this- man chose to go into this
chapel, infult'tflfc minister,' and didiirb the
mapner, you have heard.
" I ana hound.to tell you the evidence
brings.thist man's offence clearly within the
aft, and if you believe the evidence it is
your daty to find the defendant guily."
The j,u,ry alipoft immediately found the
defendant guilty.
Mr. Guruey then said, that the offer he
had made opening he \Vas now ready
to fulfil ; he believed the defendant was in
court, if Tie would now make an apology for
his conduft the prosecutors would not call
him up for judgment, unless he repeeted the
offence. That the congregation had not
been Jtafty or viindiftive in prosecuting, for
tin's defendant had diduibed tlu?m once be- .
fore, and had been .forgiven. I
Mr. Judice B'jHer fa id the conduct of ■
the congregation did them great honor,
and the defendant was a fool if he did not j
accept the terms they offered him.
Mr Knowles said the defendant was not
in court, but he fhouldtertainiy advifs hiiii
to do so.
For the honour of humanity, may it (land
recorded,- that towards the relief of the
Briltol infirmary, the merchants and trades
men of that city have fubferibed the sum
ofSocol. At the fame time that this dis
plays the wraith of the inhabitants, it shews
that they know how to ufc it; and when |
gold is thus applied to the necessitieS of our
fellow-creatures, we /hall cease to-dig'm'atife
it as " the root of all evil;"
-
LIVERPOOL, Sept. 7.'
Died, on the 29th ult. at Derby, in the
63d year of his age, after a long and'pain
ful illness, Joseph Wright, an ar
tid whose works have already procured him
thehigheft eminence in various branches cf
his profeflion. He was a pupil of Hudson,
who, though an indifferent painter himfelf,
had the honor of indrufting three of the
mod eminent painters of the age, vii. Sir
Joshua Reynolds, Mr. Wright,andMr.Mor
timer. Mr. Wright's early Historical Pic
tures may be considered as the fird valuable
productions of the Englidi School, because
®t the time his Gladiator, Orrery, Air
Pump, Hermit, and Blacksmith's Forge,
were painted, nothing of any conseqUence
had been produced in the historical line.—
His attention was afterwards direfted for
some years to Portrait Painting, and from
the fpccimens he has left, there can be no
doubt that he would have flood in the firft
rank in this branch of. the art, had he eho
fen to pursue it ; but his genius was not to
be circumscribed w;thin such narrow limits,
and therefore at a mature age he visited I- !
taly, t» lludy the precious remain* of art i
which that country possessed :—His fine
drawings after Michael Angeloj (which |
have scarcely been seen except by his psrti
cularfriends) and the enthusiasm with which
he always spoke of the sublime original, e
vinced the edimation in which he held them,
and from their extreme accuracy, they may
be considered as faithful delineations of the
treafuret of the Capella Scftina, and fueh a;
have never yet been exhibited to the public
During his abode in Italy, he had an op
portunity of feeing a very memorable Erup
tion of Vesuvius, which rekindled his in
clination for painting extraordinary effe&s
of light, and his different piftures of this
sublime event, stand decidedly Chief D'o>:u
-vres in that line of painting—for who but
Wright ever succeeded in Fire or Moon
Lights ! His late Pi&ures have been ahiefly
Landscapes, in which we are at a loss, whe
ther mod to admire, the elegance of his
outline, his judicious-management of light
and {hade, or the truth and delicacy of his
cokniriikg, but of these the part
have never been exhibited, "as they were al
ways purchased from the Ealil by amateurs
who kne\r how to appreciate their value ;
a large landscape (his lad work) how at
Derby, being a view of the Head of Ullf-'
water, may be confi4?r*d among if the fined
of his, and defervediy rankednvith the mod
valued-pi oduftionsof Wilson, or even Claude
himfelf. •
In the historical Line* the Dea l Soldier,
which Is now known by Heath's admirable
Print, would alone edablifh his fame, if his
Edwin, (in the pofleffion of L. Milnes, esq.
of Wakefield, who has also his deftruftion
of the lloating Batteries off Gibraltar, and
fame of his bed Landscapes,) the two pic
tures of Hero and Leander, Lady in Co
mus, Indian widow, and other historical
fubjefts, had not already afccrtaioed his ex
cellency. His attachment to his native
town, added to his natural modesty, his
severe application both to the theory and
practice ps painting, prevented his mixing
with promiscuous society, or edablifhing
. his reputation by arte which he would never
de/cend to praftice ; hi 3 friends lftng urged
him to reside in London,, but his family at
tachments and love of retirement and study
were invincible, ,and he fell a victim to his
unwearied attention to his profeflion. His
pictures have been so much in requett, that
there is scarcely an instance of their ever
having come into the hands of dealers, nei
ther have his bell works ever been seen in
Lond9n —a strong proof of their intrinsic
worth, and that no artifices were necessary
to iafure their sale. >
It is with pleasure therefore we record,
that his pecuniary circnmftances were al
ways affluent, and shew that the world had
not been unmindful of his extraordinary
talents ; and also, that, as a man, he en
joyed the frfendfhip and edeem of all who
had the pleasure of his acquaint ince.
IMPORTED
IN the (hip Aurora, from Hambur;h, antl for
ftle hy the Snbfcriber.
Bed ticks, 8 4, 9-4, and 10-4.
A quantity of Tapes. No. 13 aid Is.
si»/! on Handy
Cerman tlack Hihhnn, No. 3 and 4.
George Pennock.
nov embpr it 3aw 2W
Mnftcal Instrument Manufactoryi,
■ 167, Arch-flrtet.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
IXFQRMSMi friends and the puMic, that he has
bow ready fgr sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired Gde beard Piano Fortes, with
PeJals,patent fweil, frnopahant and French harp
flop, which for fcifibjlity of touch, brilliancy of
tone, (implicit} and durability of conftru&ion, the
fcperiority of which .he flatters himfelf, a finale tri
al will convince the (ftiur jtrdiced judge—\s they
are manufa&ured under his immediate ialpe- 1 1 n,
of the vry be* seasoned materials, he can fell on
reasonable terms {or Cash. luftrumsnts repaired,
tuned, See.
N. B. Second hand Piano Foftes taken in ex
change fc.r new;
m-cmlii xS. S4w2Dio.
•pgwewir. gvskwzw - ••
CON G R E 2 ■:.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 6.
Mr. Dent presented a memorial from
sundry inhabitants of St. Mary's county,
in the (late of Maryland, Hating that by the
lite regulations made in the eilablifhment of
Polt-Roads, they were deprived of the op
portunity of receiving news-papers as usual,
whith as they have a direst tendency topro
mote'an increase of knowledge, thry consid
er as being deprived of a blefling, and pray
for an exteniion of the road, that the evil
they complain of may be remedied.—Refer
red to a feleft committee.
Mr. Reed presented the petition of Si
meon Dunbar, stating that he pofleflcs con
tinental SectlHties ; that he neVer heard of
the aft of limitation, before the limit was
expired, and prays that they may notwith
standing be funded.
A motion to refer this petition to the
committee of claims, occafioiied some d«-
Imte upon the propriety of reference of a
petition, which acknowledged the claipi to
be barred bylaw. It was,however,at length
agreed to; when 14
Mr. Williams "ford, he believed there
were many jull claims undischarged, owing
entirely to the ignorance of the persons
holding the securities, with refpe£t to the
law of limitation ; for persons living on the
frontierof the country, who were probably
the bell entitled to compensation, had no
meansof becoming acquainted with the laws.
' He therefore proposed the following resolu
tion :
Rc-folved, that a committee be appoint
ed to enquire into the expediency or inex
pediency of defigriatmg certain claims to be
excepted fronv the operation of the aft «f li
mitation, and that they report by bill or o
therwise."
Mr. Dwicht Foster fatd, that amo
tion of this kind had b«en made in the lad
winter feflion, and the committee of claims
on the 24thof February, had made a lengthy
report thereupon, which for want of time'
had not been afted upon, and which was
msntioncd in the report of unfinHhed busi
ness. He supposed, if the gentleman mov
ed this report to be committed to a commit
tee of the whole, his objcdl would be at
tained.
After 3 number of defolt«ry observations,
thii motion was put and carried, and made
the order of the day far Friday.
Mr. Gordon presented a petition from
sundry inhabitants of N«vr-Hauip£hire, com
plaining that there was no direct pod from
Exeter to Concord, and P ra ymg that fetch
a poll may be eftablifhed.—Referred to a fe
left committee. •
Mr. D. Foster said, he was inftrufted
by the committee of claims, to afl< leave of
the house to be discharged from the farther
confederation of the petition of Mr. Maury,
consul of the United SVates at Liverpool,
in order lhat-it might be referred to the
committee appointed to take into confidera
ti«n that part of the President's speech
which rel .ted to the consuls of the United
States.—Agreed ; and the petition referred
in the way proposed.
Mr. Harper then called for the order of
the day on certain rcfolations which he had
offer*d to the confideratiim of the house on
thefubjeftof taking evidence in cases of
.contested elections.
The motion was agreed to, and the house
accordingly resolved itfelf into a commitllee
of the whole on that'fubjeft, Mr. Dent in
the chair. The rcfolutioiis were as follow :
< " Refoliui. that the method of taking evidence
to be adduced, in the trial of contend elefliom,
for house, shall, be as follows :
" ift. The party intending to conteftan election
{ball give notice of fcch intention to the peifon re
•urre 1. {/" it be an rfefiiun in ibt ufuml cenrfe, their
lice fall he five* at lenfl ■ htftre the
time ".vie; the [aUperftn it to take his feat; if not in the
ujaal courfr, hut to Jill a vacancy, then the netice Jball be
given within day after the persons ap
pointed to hold the election (hall ha v « made known
pr.b'icly the state of thi poll. The notice (hall be
delivered in wilting, at the usual residence of the
pcrfon returned ; and if he be absent, (hall be left
thire »pnn.
" idly- That the party intending to take exami
nation, ftallthen apply to some juSice «r judge of
the courts of the United States, or some chancellor,
jullice or judge of a fupcemr, superior or county
■ ourt, or court of common piels, of any state—or
some mayor or chief majjilrate of a town or city,
and frail obtain a notification, under his hand arid
fr-al.Jirciledto the oppofue party, and requiring
hint t * attend by himfif, or his attorney duly a,u
tbori'/id, and crcfs-examinc the witneflVV I hit
notification fliall ilate the time and pjaccbf ex a mi
nium. and the names V the wilHcffos; and Jt
flisllb? fi;rve 1 on tbe opposite party, or his attor
ney duly auth»rifed, as ruber may be nearcil to
such place ;■ provided ti'ht r is within one Kundu.i
miles of it. For attendance r.fttr receiving the
notificr.ticn, one day, exclusive of Sundays, fliall
be allowed foi every twenty mil.s.
" 3dly. In all cases where either party fliall give
notice to the other, of his having appo nted an at
torney, for the pi:rpore aforefaid, it fliall Le'necel'-
fry to Trrvc the abovemeniioned notif.cation on
the attorney
" 4thly. Every pei ion dejiofip », Dial) make oath
or affirmation to teOifytbc whole truth, ami (hall
fublVri 1 e the taflimony by him or her given; whith
(ball be reduced to wi ting only by the magiflrate
taking the dt-pofuion, or fey the deponent, in his
prtfer.ee. Tl e depolition, so taktn together with
a certificate of rhc notices, and proof of . the f.r
vic: of t.V ru, fh.il te f. aled up by the maeiftrate
who took it, and trjnunittcd to the fjioakcr of the
hou'e.
" Refo!ve& 1 hat tht examination of wttntffes, ta
ken ii! this rsantn-r, wi no other,, {hall hereafter
li» admi'ltd 011 11 ia! fJ> contellcd fl^AioflfL
"JVi/vkJ, that, cr.piis of any papers recorded ill
any'office oi rerord, pro-vidrd thefl; copies be a'-
teftcd und-r the hand and fcal of the re«ordingof
ticer, (hull be admitted *t all such trials, in the
fame manner as the originals would be, if produc
ed. In lik* maimer, copiesof any other pasersof
a public nanire, and remaining in thepofleflion of
apuM e officer, fliall be admitted, when attested
un«ierthe hand and seal of that officer.
" KefjM, that copies of these refolutioin
fball be forwarded forthwith to the executive of
cVery state, with a requefl that they will cause thi
managers of every ele&ion in their refpeflivs flatcs
to be lurnifhed with at least one copy."
Mr. Hosmer moved to amend the firft
refolntion, by adding after the word " elec
tion," in the eighth line, " or to canvass
the votes,"—Agreed.Mr. Stt.iS'aves did not miderftawl tae
uVjeft which ttu* mover of these resolutions
had in view. He knew not whether he
meant to confine the operation of his rula
to the present House of RrprefentativCs on
ly, or to all future houses. From the lan
guage of the firft resolution, he judged the
latter washia intention, Asit was hisopiuion,
therefore, that any attempt of theirs to bind
future houses would be perfectly nugatory,
he 'should move to strike out the words from,
" If it be," to "given'' (printed above in
italjc.) This resolution will then confine i
the' operation of the rule to the eleftions
which may take place during the fifth
congress. By the constitution, every house
was to judge of the elections and returps of
its own members. Tt wa3 not in the power
of any house to prescribe rules for a fue
ceeding one, for this reason, the rtiles which
governed a preceding house, were always re
vised by the succeeding one. If they were
to prescribe rules which were to be binding
on future houses, it could only be done by
an aft of the whole legislature, which
would certainly be exceptionable, as it would
give to the President and Senate a power
over the rules. for governing their proceed
ings, which, by the constitution, they were
alone the judge# of. He ftiought his ideas
on this fubjeft correft ; if they were, he
doubted, not the motion which he had made
Would be agreed to.
Mr. Harper said, if the idea of the gen
tleman last up was correft, his motion,
would donbtlefs be acceded to ; though
he did not go for enough, because in
that cafe she should have move! to have
ftftick out tlx whole clause ; because, if the
rules proposed were notjto have a permanent
effeft, they would he perfeftly nugatory.
But he apprehended his friend had not at
tended to a diftinftion, which he thought a
plain one. It was this, the power to eftab
lilh rules for the taking of evidence, and that
of judging the evidence after it wjis taken,
This house could not fay it would «dmit
mtmber3 under such and such difqualifica
tions, but an agreement to the mode of tak
ing evidence, was very different from the
qualifications themselves. It was essentially
necessary that legiQative andjudicial powers
should be kept diltinft, yet it was not tho't
an interference with the judicial authority,
for the legislature to direst the mode of tak
ing evidence in certain cases. Nothiny could
.be more clear than this diftinftion. It could
not be said, therefore, that because the
whole legislature direfted the mode of tak
ing evidence in cases of contested eleftion,
that the President and Senate interfered with
the constitutional direftion that every house
should he the judge of its own rules. He
was of cpinion that a law was necessary,
and a law of a permanent nature, to which
he could fee no reasonable objeftion. He
allowed that it would be uneonftitutional
for the President or Senate to interfere with
their rules or elections ; but when they
came to mike a law which was to operate
upon the whole community, their interfer
ence was necessary and proper. If these
ideas were founded, and he thought they
were, the proposed amendment would be re
jifted.
Mr. N. Smith said the motion now be
fore them, was founded upon an idea that
permanent rules could not be made for tak
ing evidence at contested eleftions. He had
frequently heard it said that rules could not
be made to be binding any longer than while
the house existed which formed them. For
himfelf he never conceived this opinion to
be correft. That it was highly important
that permanent regulations should be made
on the fubjeft in question, every one must
idmit ; it became of importance thciefore,
to know whether they had the power of
making them. When he spoke of perma
nent rules he would not be understood to
mean that any rules should be longer perma
nent than until the time came when the
house of reprefentativea should wjfh to re
scind (hem.
The idea whiph led to the conclusion of
the gentleman from Pennsylvania, was this,
that every new Congress occasioned a new
House of Representatives; that whenever
the members were newly elefted, there was
a new House of Representatives. He did
not believe this doftrine to be correft. The
House of Representatives, he said was a to
tally diftinft thing from its members. The
House of Representatives, in his opinion,
always existed ; and there was 110 period at
which it could be said there was not a House
of Representatives in being. He never be
lieved it was broken in pieces one* in two
years; for when the time of one set of mem
bers expired, that of another set commenc
ed ; so that it was of the nature of a Corpo
ration, which always existed. He did not
think there had beer, four Houses of Repre
sentatives since the commencement of the
present Government, but that the whole
had been one uninterrupted House. He
thought this was the view which the Con
stitution gave of the fubjeft ; as it.spoke of
it always as a permanent body. In the fame
way, the President and Sen3te were perma
nent ; if this were not the cafe, and every
election made a new House, there was a
time when the Senate was only two thirds
of a Senate (when one-third went out of
office). This idea therefore, could not he
right. There was no difficulty, therefore,
in forming permanent rules, flnee they were,
made to gowern the House, and not the in.
dividual members. With rrfpeft to those
things which each braneh of government
had the power of doing for itfelf; each
could establish its own ruWs ; but, what re
lated to the whole government, must be the
aft of the whole. The gentleman from
Pennsylvania had said, that each House had
the power of judging of its own eleftions.
This, he apprehended, did not refer to dif
ferent Houses of Representatives, but to the
House of Representatives, and the Senate,
at each House was always considered by the
Constitution as a permanent body. He
u'as therefore opposed tb the amendment.
Mr. Nicholas believed this was a fub
jeft in which they should sever advance far
enough to come to a dtcificn. Very long
yfrty plaulible argument .i might be adduced
on both fides of title C|Ueit:on, which would
produce different effsfts on those who heard
them; but he thought the fubjeft before
them might be afted upon, without coming
to a question on that point. He supposed if
any cafe of contested elcftion came before
the House, and the evidence was taken in
such a way as to qfcertain the truth, they
should be at liberty to proceed to the ex
amination of the cafe; and therefore, all that
was wanting was, to call in the power of
the General Legislature to authorize the
attendance of witnesses to deliver their tefli
ny. Let that testimony be taken upon e
stablished and acknowledged rules, which
fatisfy every man's mind, and it will carry
conviftion with it that ir is proper. The
necessity of adopting some mode of this
kind was evident, as it was a great grievance
that perfpns difputingcleftioas fiad to come
there, to learn the mode of doisg it, before
they could proceed to take evidence. In
deed, it was putting the power of fending
members "to that house in the hands of Re
turning Officers. Jie had no doubt that
the Constitution gave them power to make
a law on the fubjeft ; if necessary the ne
ceflity of the cafe would (hew the reasonable
ness of it ; but he did not know that a law
was requisite ; he thought a rule of the
House to thteffefthe had mentioned,would
cure the evil complained of.
Mr. Sewail believed, that the great
difficulty on the fnbjeft, arose from in the
form which it presented itfelf, which had
introduced the question, whether that house
was a perpetual body Or not. He must
confefs, that he differed in opinion altoge
ther from the gentleman from Connecticut,
(N. Smith) that this house was a perpetu
al body. He thought th« constitution bad j
(hewn, that though ftiere was always 'a !
House of Reprefcntatives, yet that every
houfp had only twoyeais duration ; hut be
believed, in determining the real ok>ieft"'of
this motion, there was no fteteffity for co
ming to a dccifion oti this point. Mr. S.
objeftCd to the firft resolution, on account
of the notice required to be given, which
in some cases, would present an undue elec
tion from being disputed, because the bu
siness was not taken up agreeably to the
direftion of this rule, as to time ; so that
whether the proposed regulation was to be
effefted by a rule or a lait, he thought the
firft resolution ought to be rejefted. With
refpeft to the other parts of the resolutions,
some regulation was Certainly necessary,
both as to eleftions, and as to all other mat
ters of eontroverfy which may come before
the house ; because, if some node were a
dopted for taking evidence, fafts might be
brought before the house, which could ne
ver otherwise come. As it refpe&ed electi
ons, they knew it had happened in one in
stance, and might happen in many, that a
person had held a feat in that house for a
whole- fefiioo, who was not entitled to it.—
He saw no difficulty in passing an aft .pre
scribing the mode of taking affidavits to be
laid before the two houfei of Congress.
He should venture to move that the com
mittee rife, with the intention of dis
charging it from a farther consideration of
the fubjeft, and to propose that a commit
tee be appointed to enquire into the expedi
ency or inexpediency of preftribing a mode
I for taking evidence generally, for the pur
pose-os laying it before Congress.
Mr. Harper said, if the gentleman just
fat down had uo other reason than that
which he had assigned, for making his mo
tion, he thought, on consideration, he
would not himfelf think it necessary. His
whole objeftion to the resolutions seemed
to be, to the notice required to be given.
Here was no intention, he said, of preclu
ding evidence after the time fpecified. The
sole objeft was; that testimony taken in this
way, and no other, should be admitted.—
Persons wishing to have the time extended,
might still take the evidence in this way.—
If there were a doubt on the fubjeft, an ad
ditional clause might be introduced to this
efftft. Whether the mode he had propo
sed, was the bell which could be adopted,
he could not fay. If gentlemen knew a
better, he wished them to propose it, and
let it be considered ; but'furely, because
gentlemen think some betteT rrtode may be
devised, this was not a fufficient reason for
difchatging the committee of the whole
from a farther consideration of the fubjeft.
Mr. Gordon was in favour of the com
mittee's rising, because he did not think the
resolution would have any effect, if carried.
He was of opinion with the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. Sitgreaves) that they
could not pass a rule to bind a future house,
though he thought a law might be passed
to do away the inconvenience complained
of. These inconveniences arose from there
being no law obliging witnesses to give tf
depositions in the cases mentioned. Iffuch
a law were passed, all that was complained
of would be done away.
Mr. Harper said, if the House could
pass no law upon the fubjeft to have ef
feft, then it was idle to talk about iti—
One word upon the committee's riling. Was
it proper, he alked, after the present fub
jeft bad been printed before the House two
years, merely because gentlemen had not
given themselves the trouble to look into it,
and not because the thing is improper, but
because they have not prepared their objec
tions or amendments, to have it sent a
new committee? He thought not. If gen
tlemen wished a day or two to consider the
fubjeft, he had no objeftion to give it, but
h« hoped the committee of the whole would
not be discharged.
Mr. Sitgreaves supposed, that the
question being for the committee to rife, it
would be improper to go into the merits of
the fubjeft. He rose only to give an addi
tional reason why the Committee ought to
rife. If the House passed any thing either
in the form of a law, or a resolution, the pro
visions necessary inu'ft embrace such a varie
ty of detail as could not be fettled in a com
mittee of the whole, as they fhculd be enter-
. ed into with greai caatioas'iJ :
; Indeed; the rr.odfc of precedtfre>iopft;ci (y.\
this occatlbn, inverted the itfusl order of
I things. Tiie detail of business svas always
: fettled in fclett committees, and not in com
mittees of the Vv-Tiole. r
' The motion sot t!ie committee'sri(ing was
put and carried; and upon leave being asked
to fit again, it was refuted.
Two motions were then made; one by
Mr. Nicholas, for referifirf the resolutions
to a ftletl Committee} another by Mr.
SewaU, for appointing a Committee to en
quire rnto the expediency of passing a law
regulating the taking <4f evidence generally.
The former was withdrawn to make way for
the tatter, but renewed by Mr. Rntledge,
and in order to do away (ope obje£lions
which were urged agiiiiift ts!« mode of pro
ceeding, Mr. Harper' prpppfed to amend
the motion adding this, qij eftion to the com
mittee, viz. " to take the fubjeft matter it
felf under Coiifideration, and report, their o
pinion generally to the House."—Agreed
and a committee of five members appointed.
Mr. D. Foster, frorq, the committee of
claims, made an unfavourable* report on the
petition of Robert Hornor, which was con
curred in.
Mr. Rutdrdge presented the petition of
Robert Simmons, praying compensation for
Military Service.—Referred to the commit
tee of claims.
Mr. Harrer from the committee to
whom was referred the memorial of Thomas
Carpenter, praying for the . fiipport of the
Honfe to his American Senator, reported it
as the opinion of the committee that ao en
couragemsnt could with propriety be given
to the said work, and that the Memoria
lill have leave to withdraw his memorial—
Mr. H. moved that this report be referred
to a committee of the whole ; but on the
motion being objedted to, as unnecessary,
it was withdrawn, and rej»oit was con
cured in Ijy the House. (i . ,
Mr. Cochsan prupijjlVjl to
the following tffeA ; i ? ,
" Resolved that a eoinmit(.e'- he appoint
ed to enquire whether auy» and vr'ifit ji
nWndments are tieceflary ia the law eft abb (h
cd Pod offices and Post Ruads."
Some objeitions were made to this motion
by Mr. Thatcher, on tie ground of the
law having so lately paired, that it could
scarcely be told what would b« its opera
tion ; but, upon Mr. Cochran's represent
ing that he did not wish to go into a revisi
on of the a€t generally, but merely to pro
pose the opening of some new roads in apo
pulaus part of his (late, the motion was a
greed to, 47 vote* being in its favour.
Adjourned.
The City Dancing Aflfembly,
Is unavoidably poftooned till the-14th iaft.
Dec. a,
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subfcnber, propadng to hi* bufi
nefi, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. Oh it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a compile JBoreing Machine, and a very good gcift
Mill, with two pair ot ftonet ; alfoagood Forge, all
in pcrfeft repair, as are alt tb c Water Works conneft
ed with these various branchesr I'he Air Furnaces
wrre lately built for of calling Cannou
for this Stste.—There are about iwo thou (and acrr»
ot one h*lf of which it uncle' wood, the other
vry fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Paliure. The Cannon lately manufactured thrre,
fully proves the excellency ol the metal, whrch ia
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in ihe world ; for not one of fi*ty*iu< e guru
lately although some of the 24 were bored
into 31 pounders, have failed oh proving. The si u
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufaflurr, and a place of aims lving in the Aate
of Conneflicut. and only 30 miles from ftveral land
ings on the Hudson's liver, and having e#ery advan
tage that can refblt from a plmty of water iffning
from a natural pond, very near thi-Furnase,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufcful purposes. 'i he purchaO-r can be?ccommodu
ed with all t*je and n'enli's, and have poiTcflicn
on or betorc the fi.lt of June ncx; t an-i prrpar .tion
may be made in theme an ttuic for gping into BUd im
mediately therealter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coa!,Ore* &c. See. For
term:, apply to Mr. ]ofeph Anthonv, in Pailade!-
phia; David Brooks, E'q. one of the Reprtldtettivcs
jri Cor«grt:fj lor this State ; Mr v D<vi«i Watriman, cn
thepremifes, or to the p optir «r in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOV.
Der. 1 . ■ ; • 3>wtf
Uriah Smith, j.
No. ao, north Thir4 ro* *A,Lt;
A neit and geoi;rat»4&>|-yH»»*
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
an < Drab Coatings, aim,
A variety of Gtntleinons' fjfti(inabl< fancy W'aift
coating, sdk HoCerYt &c.
December j. ' *eodzw
FOR SALE,
fir THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firtt quality, in
pipe*
Madeira Wine, quality, in pipes
Lifbnn WINE, in pipes
NIJ" rr 1 j °^^ lC Utel importation, in boxes
SpaniHi Wool, in Bales, fuit.tble for Hatters.
Wt!lings & Francis,
Pcnn-ftreet, No. at.
Nov. r. w&stf
" LAW BOOKS,
London and Dublin Editions.
ti. isf P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. ii, Jjimth Serpnd, and No.JO, Market flreet,
HAVK just received by the htc arrivaje/rnin
I.ont\)ii and Dublin, their fpriog importa
tion, confining of a variety of thelatfft and null
»f proved 1 !* Books, to those alrea
dy on hand. forttMthenio&ex'tefllWr coHeftionev
er offered, for fa'e m this Theytheiefore
heg u-ave to n.>tice, that nature of their
conne&icjisin'Duiiim, they are enabfcf} to fell Irifli
editions (as tVty have hitheft# drfi V) at the very
bwefl prices 'J'he folWing waamong the lateil
publications.
Vei'c'y, juii'rs Reports in Chancery, » vJt
Pwke's Caies nt Nisi Priu« ; Hidgeway's Re;»ort«
in the time of Lord Ilirdwicke ; Hoyer's. Prpder*
PseClice in the Eeclefuftical Courts ; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pradice of
the Court of Kirk's Bench in Personal AaioHi, z
parts co.nplete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
00 Uses ; modern Reports, H vols. London edi
'io"l • , < * n
H. and P. Ric* e*pe« to receive by the firft ar-
from New-York the <th vol. complete of
Durnford and Kaft's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a of
ntw publication..
June j6
.-I
Xftt.visrs.cttc*
PHILADELPHIA,
THT'R'-TIAY EVENING, DEC.EMRF.It 7.
DILD—At Boston, on Tuifffoy the
28th November, Mr. James Carter, for
more than thirty years pall, one of the puh
liiHrufljrs of that town. In his death so
ciety fuic;iiiis the loss of a capable, diligent
at:d faithful public servant.
—ln Connecticut, at ?n advanced age,
His Excellency Oliver Wolcott, Gov
ernor of that ii at e ■ —-An enlightened patriot,
a firm friend to the independence and inter
ests of his country a Chrristl£n, " the
bightft style of man." !
Legiflalure of Pennfyhiama.
Robert Hare, Efquirc, was on Tucf
day last, tinanimoufly re-e!efted Speaker,and
Timothy Matlack, Esquire, Clerk, of
the Senate—and yesterday George Lati
mer, Esquire, was nnanimoufly re-eie£ied
Speaker of the Honfe of Reprefcntatives.
Mr. fofeph Bullock was elefted Clerk, hav
-55 TOtes out of 57. The house adjourn
ed after th« Speakeshad qualified.the mem
bers.
Mr. James Martin was chosen Serjeant
at Arms, and Mr. Jofepli Fiy>_, Door
keeper.
Oj" A Charity Sermon will be preached
by the Rev. Mr. Neale, next Sunday, in St.
Mary's Church, at 10 o'clock, A.M. for
the benefit of the poor of the said Church.
Letters of the 7th Oft. received by ths
British packet contain nothing (lew.
Suckerton, N. Jerfy, Dec. 2.
MELANCHOLLY ACCIDENTS.
La ft week a child about two ytirs old, of
Mr. Jonathan Smith's of thi# place, unfor
tunately fell into a tub of hot pickle, and
was fca'ded to such a degree that it expired
in a few hours.
And on Wednesday this week, a boat
upset in a snow squall, in which were Joshua
Evans, son of Mr. Caleb Evans of this place,
and Hananiah Gaunt, both of which perifh
cd, and this day the bodies were found (in
or near the boat) by a party of the neigh
bours who went in search of them, and were
brought on shore to be interred.
*#* 'No Mails had arrived when this
Paper went to Press.
The Odtober Packet is arrived
at New-York.
From the ALBANY CENTINEL.
The following Jeu (P efprtl was pasted up
on the walls of Paris, »t the time of the
formation of the con flit ution of the third year.
It gave so much •ffence, that a reward of
2,c00 livrei for-the discovery of the author,
was proclaimed. It was conceived to be an
insult to the sovereign people, whose rights
were fecuretl and guaranteed by theaforefaid
eonfKtwtrnn, and who were in alfrefpefts so
well able to govern themselves. It wan a
libel on the aforefaid constitution, as the
work of the people themfilves. It' was fi
nally an attack upon reprefentatfoe govern
aoents, as if the people were futh Brutes, as
to be incapable ofchufing their own repre
fcntatives. So much for this little libel.
Whether the late event 3 in Francs have fal
fified or confirmed it ; whether the expul
sion and banifliment of ocehalfof the French'
legislators by the reft, is a proof of the effi
cacy of repnfentative government in that
country; whether it is now demonstrated,
that the French people are machines, or free
agents j and finally, whether the transac
tions us the 4th September, and the paflive
fubmiflion of the people, (hew any likenefa
between them and ourselves, and exhibit
them as an example for our imitation, I
(hall submit to the candid American reader.
O Pcuple Francois ! quelle bete !
D' avoir un bonnet fans tete.
O Peuple Francois ! quelle Machine !
D' avoir un Arbre fans Racine.
translation.
Oh People ! whither are you led,
Oh People ! surely turn'd to Brutes,
To have a Cap without a head,
To have a Tree without the Roots.
akother.
Ye Fools of France, by Faßion led ?
What is a Cap Without a head ?
More stupid still who search for Fruit,
Upon a Tree without a Root.
ANOTHER.
People for Bravery and for Wit renown'd,
See what fUcccfs your mighty works hath
crown'd !
Your glorious Tree the dev'l a Root can
hoaft ;
Andtho' the Bonnet's gain'dthehead is loft.
ANOTHER.
Is it for this that France has bled,
To gain a Cap without a head ?
Trampled all Laws beneath her Foot,
To nurse a Tree without a Root ?
GAZETTE M ARINE LIS
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CL*AKE9.
Ship Jean, M'Pherfou Savannah
Brig Modest, Colladay Hamburgh !
Pennsylvania, Tatem Cadiz j
Charlotte, Eaglefon N. York |
Jane, Vanfife C. Francois '
Molly, Kilby St. Bartholomews
Schr. Polly, Eldrige Boftcn
Sloop Mary, Gamble Havannah
Sally, Nicols N. York
Capt.Labbrec, from Savannah, Ivas board
ed on the tilt. lat. 38. 8, by the British
frigate Thetis, Capt. Cochran y who informed
him, that he had detainedfor examination a
fbip betongwg to New- Turk and a Philadelphia
flip, 1«'/;frmithe riKVatinv, for
the Philadelphia ship ibr.i in p.ght, end iht
i-onls of thzjrignfs on uonr&fjotb, C/'fii.
Ceei-rait; voijlrd Captain La'bree to keep him
M Company until h; had determined what to <,'■/
with the flips, in order thtt if he made pr~
of than, he njigljlwrite, to their owners,flat'r. j
his reap: ns for fa doing ; 'rut Cjipt. L. prices}'
cd on his voyage without further information
rifp*&irig t'-r'm—Capt. L; undcrjloodthat th,">
had captured a brig from the Havannah, to tb'u
port.
'The fchr. Tryal. Hand,from New-Tori;,
has drifted from the point with ice, oppo/lte the
City, between the ifl'and and the Jsrfyfljore.
7he brig Charlotte, Eaglefon, from hence to
Neiv-Tork, is detained by the ice at the point.
The Thomas Chaltley, , Clark, arrived at
the fort from Martinico, failed farm that place
the 26th of Oct. and Tortola the 3 d ultitJo, ht
company with several vejfels for the ports of the
U. States.
Cap!. Clark has been on the coafl ftnee the
2 Ift ultimo, andfaiti a number of veffeh of all
descriptions, many of whomflood to the fouth
tuard and tis fuppofedhave not got in-
Arrived at the Fort the brig- Sally, lValdron
of New-Tcrl from Carracoa in distress, ha
ving fprurg a leak and short of provisions.
Bnflon, Nov. 2g.
Arrived yesterday—Brig Aftceon, Bifr.v
ham, 42 days from Hamburgh. Left there
OA. 4, fliip Hannah, Stutfon, of Boston,
for Lisbon ; brig Two Friends, Merrill, of
Portsmouth ; (hip Mary, Baker, of Port
land, for Oporto ; (hip Industry, Hall, of
Boston ; (hip Enterprise, , of Provi
dence, loading for Cape-de-Verds ; Tennef
(est Smith, ofN. York, far Philadelphia }
fliip Juno, Blake, of Bo'tton, for N. York ;
<hip Penr.i'jkania, Wiil'art.fon, of Philadel
phia ; fliip Victory, Sp-jPod, of Boston j.
brig Elizabeth, Picket, of Newbury-Port ;
(hip John, , of Boston, for Phitad. fliip
Arajali, , of N. York, for the Isle of
France j (hip Nancy, King, of do. for the
coast of Guinea. Nov. 6, lat. 43,20,
long, J2. spoke fchr. Hope, from Malaga,
bound to Boston, out 27 days (since arrived.)
Nov. 12, lat. 4,1, 10, long. 63, spoke (hip
Mary Ann, Park, of New-York,out 5 days
for Bourdeaux.
Also yefterday—Sch. Hamilton, Clap
ham, from Martinico, and last from Tortola,
which place he left Nov. 4, in co. with a
large convoy bound to England, and the
following veflels bound to America, viz. the
Joseph, Jones, Portland; Volant, Barker,
Salem ; William, Milberry, Newbury-Port;
Hannah, Chafe, do. Sally, Ripley, Boston ;
Industry, Tuck, da. Hannah, Lord, do.
Molly, Stevens, Marblehead ; Swallow,
Taylor, Plymouth 5 Eagle, Davey, do.
Friendship, Harlow-, do. Almy, Curtis, Bos
ton ; brig Pallas, of Kennebunk, with sev
eral other vefTels, names unknown. Lat.
37, sc, long. 71, 30. spoke (hip John, from
Amfterdam,to Philadelphia, out 104 days-
Also yefterday—Sch. Phenix, Coit, Co.
penhageti, 57 days.
A fliip from St. Übes ; Capt. Atkins,
from Li(bon, and capt. Lovering, from Fal
mouth, are-in-at Gloucester.
The Circumnavigator, lately taken by a
Britr(h privateer, was sent to N. Providence
wliere (he was acquitted and fuffered to pro
ceed for Boston, without any papers.
The (hip Sarah, capt. Pollard, of Boston,
from Woolwick-bay, 1800 bbk oil; and
fliip Leo, capt. Allen, of Nantucket, 1400,
were spoken in the Vineyard Sound, on
Wedoefdjy last,
November 29.
It is apparent from Paris papers to 061.
3, that the expectations of continued war
fare are paramount ; and that every exerti
on is making to give efftft to the firft recon
tre of the oppofmg armies. Not with (land
ing this appearance, the negociations at U
dina were not discontinued at the last dates
—and the Paris Courier of Oft. 3, menti
on:., that the French Commissioners, Treil
hard and Bonnier, werr gone again to Lisle,
and that the British government, after the
return of Lord Malmefbury to London hid
difpatehed a courier to them. We fee little
in the papers rcfpe&ing the United States,
and that little :s unaccompanied with ob
servations.
A letter from Paris, dated Oft. 2, fays,
" The war will be contip>ied in Europe
with renewed numbers, and augmented in
veteracy. Since the expulsion of Barthele
my, Paftoret, \ aublanc, and others, who
were certainly the friends of our country, T
am fearful-the tfrms imposed on our Extra
Commifiioners will be harder, than if their
arrival had been pulterior to that eruption.
As yet they have made no progress in th*
negociatio* ; and we'cannot even conjeftuvu
the iflue. My candid opinion is, that they
will explain things fatisfaftorify."
1 ■ ■ »
PhiladelphiaandLancafter Turn
pike Companany.
"P'HE Stockholders art hereby notified, that,the
JL annual Eleftion for Officers for the ensuing
year will be.held at the Company's Office inFh a.
d-lphia, on thefecond Monday in Janua'V n> 1 1, at
10 o'cl-ck, a. m. Wit. 'OOVE IT, See'rv.
December 7 at>m&wt7j
MUSIC.
J. L. L£NZ,
Teacher ot Vocahand im"truniei;tal Music,
RETURNS hi-fiiitsre thaakttoxhe Ladiei and
Ok' tieratn, fron whom lie received a very
liberal fficc I.is rtfidence in this ci
ty, and refpedtfjllly ir.fi_r.-ns hiafrieml-aqd the put •
! lie generally, that, iu cenlecjucuce of tlie nequeb
j of fotne of his friends, he hat opened a Mutical
I 3ch»ol at hishoufe in Spr»ce btre 't No 174, where
j he will teach os the Pi mo forte, Violin &c. Ike—
! He deenas it urinectiTary to enlarge upon tne »d.
vantagcVthe learner will dsrjve from an instituti
on of he will only fay, that attention
and zeal are much cxciied in an afiVmbly, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame ohjefl. His
arrangement is such, that an interference of the
th: differ.ntfexeswill l)es\oided Thcfe Ladie»
and GentUmm who cannot make it convenient ro
attend at his fchi ol he wil! wait upon at their
houses Applications will'te thankfully recdv.
Ed at his houfj, T.hcrc l.is tei'nis and furtherparu
culars may be kr.^wi).
Dec. 7,A person well acquainted with j
tlc.heory |
many inbufmefstorhiinklf andother ,
would be glad to be employed, either as an ago
or tailor; cr in porting books ; ftatinj* tm'ettJed
accounts ; of in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in or Englilh*
A note addreiTed to J. A. and left at this office,
will he punctually attended to.
November 30. 3awtf
To the Inhabitants of the United
States.
SINCE the knowledge of medicine, none has ev
er proved so aftenifhingly efficacious, so uri
v rlally eflccmed, or to which the afflt&cd with
Rheumatisms,. Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Pally, Sprains, Bruises and Chilblains, nYiy look
for relief with so ituich confidence, as
Whitehead's e[fence of Mujlard.
This extraordinary Medicine very loon affords
the wiflwd for relief, " even to the Kged in cales
the mofl
it is patrpniftd by all ranks of people in England.
From the gteat number of«omniunicatioTisc6n
ftantly received by Mr. John stun, he is under the
ri'Cefiify (in laying them before the world) of a
bridgin;; their contents; the following lcttters (al
thrcch curtailed) are so very important, and the
r 'cres lo very rel'peitable, that he conceives he j
fhouU be doing injutlice to lYbiubtad't EJfer.cc of
IdtiJlarJ, Were he to withhold them from puiilic in
fpecliuii.
Let'er from Mrs. Mills, Housekeeper to the Duke
of Cumberland.
Sir, Nov. 1, 1795.
A rr.otf inveterate Rheumatism and Lumbago ;
(occcafibaed by laying in a damp bed, when at
Br jtTVIS, in t!ic suit of Her Royal Highness the
Dutchtf; of Cnmberland) hasaffliAjd me eighteen
years, I have employed the firft medical gentle
men in London, and (although I derived no bene- j
fit,) am bound to acknowledge my gralitude to fc- j
vrral of the nobility, who knew my deplorable si
tuation, and humanely sent me their pliyacian> ; 1
have alio tried most advertised medicines. At j
length, fir, after eighteen years excruciating!
torture, a few bottles of your Whitehead's Effe.ice
•/ Mujlard. have, I thank God, restored me to the
inellimable bkfiings ot hcakh and permanent sale..
Yours, mHch obliged,
No. IJ4, Jermyn-ftreet, St. James's. S. MILLS
Ccpy of a letter from G. Countess, esq. Captain of
His Majeßy's Ship the Dedalus.
Sir, Spithead, Nov. 2, *795*
At 1 expefl to fail in a few days, 1 beg tou will
immediately forward me a dazen of Whitehead's
MJfence of Muflard. It gives me considerable fatif
faSion to inform you, I have myfelf experienced
its good effeils, and have in leveral inflances of
Rheumatisms, Sprains, and Bruises, witnessed its
a-ftonifliing efficacy- 1 think you would consult
your own interest by appointing it to be fold at
Poufmouth, and all other seaports ;'for you may
reft allured, when this invaluable fpccific becomes
gencralfy known, not an Officer in Mis Majesty s
Navy will go to sea without it.
Yours, &c.
G. COUNTESS.
Sir, Dec/«o, 1795-
A I'rirrc ftrokeof the Palsy, fix months ago, de
prived me of my speech, and the use of one fide.
In this desperate situation, IVhilehead' 1 Efface 0/
M.ijljrdvi3.i very strongly recommended, and, I
thank God as fuccefsfully applied. By perlevcring
in its use alhort time, I was completely reflated,
and continue to enjoy the full and perfeit use of
my faculties, although near eighty years of age.
1 Yours, W. FRANCIS,
No. T4, Arabella-row, Pimlico.
Mr. Francis has held a public situation at
the Guildhall in the city of Westminster, many
years, and is well known to the generality of the
refpc&able inhabitants.
Letter from A. McCan Esq. Capt. of the 60th re
giment,dated Fort George, Guernfiry,
Sir, (an. 4,1797
Upwards of five years past I have been affiifled
with a most violent Rheumatic Affetflion in my
head, which has baffled the skill of the most emi
nent Physicians; some months since I was induced
to try your Whitehead'> Eflence of Mujlard. I am
now happy to inform you, it has done me efiential
service.and I think itneceffary to . -dare, no other
tuedkine ever gave me the smallest degree of relief,
lam with regard,yours,&c. &c.
Capt.iotk Regt. A. MoCAN.
August, 1795:
Mr. Middleton, of Chefterfield-ftreet, St. Ma
ry le-bone was so severely affli&ed with the Rheu
matic Gout, as to be unable to move ia my bed for
fixmonths; his limbs were enormously swelled.and
at length from excessive pain became quite black.
In this distressing situation he was induced to try
your Whitehead's EJfence if Mujlard; the effeA far
exceeded the most sanguine expeSation, his pain
was immediately alleviated, and his limbs returned
to their natural colour ; his appetite restored, and
in a very Ihort time he was enabled to leave his bed
and walk with crutches; and by a few weeks per
fevtrance, was completely restored to the full en
joyment of perfect health.
%* Mr. Middleton, with his son. repeatedly
called as better," on Mr. Johnfton, and de
clared that was utterly despaired of.
RefpeaedSir, Nov. 6. 1795-
Palling by a croud, in. the fifth month of her
pregnancy, my wile received a dreadful blow on
-her fide, which apparently destroyed the life of the
infant ; after the most Ikilful advice, and trying
various remedies for two months, she still found
the symptoms increafeto an alarming degree ; fpit
ling of blood—lhortnefs of breath—and other dif
jgreeable circumstances appeared fiom so violent a
bruise, afforded only the fatal appearance ol her
lpeedy dissolution. A friend to whom I relat«d
her fad cafe, having experienced great benefit from
your Whitehead's EJfence of Mujlard, kindly present
ed me with a bottle ; to my unspeakable fatisfac
tion, it fpedily relieved her from pain ; a lecond
bottle has removed every difagreeablc symptom,
ajid with the most heartfelt gratitude I inform yoo,
we have the happy profped of her long continuing
a livine toother to our numerous family.
S Yours, &c. T. HURLOCK:
Vhitmore's row, Haxton.
It is prepared (only) and fold, in Pills and in a
Fluid state, at one dollar eaeh box or bottle, by
R. Johnston, Apothecary, no 10, Gruck ftrcet,
Soho, London ; and is alio fold by his appoint
ment, wholefaleand retail, by G. SHAW, if Co.
no. ri9, Chefnut-ftreet, Philadelphia, who have
just received a, large quintity, per the William
Penn, and to whom, perlons desirous of vending,
are desired to apply.
CHILBLAINS.
Whitehead's Ejfcnct of Mujlard generally cures
Chilblains aud common Rheumatisms, on the firft
or second application, and often removes the most
violent Sprains and Sruiles, in two or three days.
Caution. —A Certificate is pasted on each bottle
and box, and to prevent the danger of counterfeits,
another certificate is also fig .led byG. Shaw & Co.
of Philadelphia.
Shaw & Co. have also imported by the William
Penn, a quantity of Gowland's Lotion for the face
and ikin Balsam of Honey for coughs, asthmas
and consumptions—Church's Cough Drops, and a
variety of other Patent Medicines.
November IS ■ * f&w 3'
THOMAS R AN DAL L,"
PRESENTS his refpeils to his Friends, and the
Public in general, informs them that he hasop iv-'d ]
anOince, athishoufe, No. 8i?, Spruce ftrect, for
the purpn.'e of tranfa&ing business in the tine of
Conimiifion and Agency, relieving tent* and out
(landing claims in any part ot :he United Sra&es"* —
He flatters himfeif, that from his longreCdence in
this country and a gtnersl knowledge of it, hi* fcr
cicas will lie sou H worthy the no l ice of tho'c who
may ptcafe to' confide to him the T.anagvrrent of
any of their concerns.
N* B. Security given where required.
Ilthnio 24
'FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South
Wafer-flrcct,
A general a (Tort man t of China
W;\rc
Elack ajul coloured Sattir.s
Do. do. I.Hteftrings
Do. d». Handkerchiefs
Do. do» sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and short Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Afloried Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
MoufiTe*, in hoglhead" (
St. Croi< Rum and Sugar, in do. .
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Winea, in quarter caflcs
Red, yellow pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, See. &c.
*»v 7.—tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
For Sale, by the Package, 1
For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninety days, '
viz.
Book and Jaconet Muflint plain
stripes, and Checks ' Assorted in
do. do. Tamboured j> 01c kaeea.
do. Lidies handkerchiefs, & | "
gentlemen's neck do.
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
India market, Pullicote ind linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz shawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Alto a few scotch cambricks and an
aflfortment of niuflinbythe piece.
The whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufa&urer* in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackburn's
Offifce, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. 6. aawtf.
NOTICE. ~~
THE Stockholders qf the Bank of the United
States, are informed that according to the
statute of Incorporation a general Ele&ion for
twenty five Direflors will be held it the Bank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firfl day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the .Eleventh fefVion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the faiil Bank
arc hereby notified to aflemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
vening.
By order of the Board of directors,
G. SIMPSON, Calhier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three-fourths of tne Directors
in office, exclusive of the President, lhall be e-
for the next succeeding year, but the
DWiSlor who (Hall be President at the time of an
EletSlion may always.be re-ele^ltd.
Philadelplila, nnv.18.1797. f tE
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAPs
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to formtr
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to ifTue the fame to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who da not, will be confidercd as re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
• HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
ntvember, ij. tuthScfim.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G.'M. De La GRANGE,
No. iro Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wilh to recur to the only
means of becoming perfect in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
fining of upwards of 1150 volumes, the bed cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftruflion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
In tqwD.
N. b. All tranllations from and iuto thp French,
Englilh and Spanilh Languages, executed with ac
curacy and difpateh. comi nan. 15.
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattilla*
Brown Hollands
White Sheetings
Dowlafies
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siamoufes
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glades, in
in cases, &c. Sec.
George Pennock.
November 6. eod^w
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles aqd Materials, confining of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pumice Stone, Emory,
Rotten ■ Stone, Cat (Jut; bench, stand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
November 3. f&tutf
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now, in the prels, and will be publi(hed,
with all convenient expedition, by Z.I-CHA
riam Poulson, juo. N®. 80, Chefnut-ftrcet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. aawtf
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF FAMOUS SIZES,
From Bby 6 to 19 by 14,
By the Tingle Box or Quantify, may be had at the
ftoteof ibe Subscribers, cornet \>f Arch and Front
flrcct,
James C. & Samuel W. FHher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
Six Cents Reward.
RANAyv V?, this mornirj, December 4,from ,
f>eSubfcriber, an indented boy, named Wil
liam Aston, aHout 5 f«e't, 6 or 7 .inch's high—
fair compl-ft; on> heavy brows f:eaks thick,ftont <
made. Had on when he went away, a blue coatee,
black vest, blue trowfers. This is to caution the c
public n\,t to credit him on my account, as 1 will 11
not pay any debts of his outraging after this date, p
perfon harbouring him, or employing him, c
(bail be prosecuted to the »tii<of: rigour of the law ; fl
all masters of vcffels are caurioned not *o take him g
away at their perii; aav person apprehending him t
and lodging iiini in j.ul so that his mafcer imy get n
him again, shall receive tl>e above reward and no
charges paid by " j
" John Harper, o
No, 67, Arch Street.
Dec. 4.
A Go nip ting House to Jet.
A Mod c'ohverfient Oompting House is now for I
hire da Rofs's wharf, direilly over the arch
Far terms, apply to"'
Samuel Bred, jun.
No. 89, south Third street.
Where may be had,
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about 100
pieces of flout Canvass; a small quantity of Mace,
and some high proof Brandy ; Sherry Wine, Cho
colate in boxes, Window Glass of various sizes,
and dimensions. Dec. 1. —eo6t '
Samuel & Miens tinier,
ARE NOW OP EX INC, }
A t their Warehoufc, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefla
affortmcnt of Woolen and other goods, fuitablc to f
the fcafdn, received by the la*te arrival? from Eng- t
land. >
They haw alfu for SjU, f
Lilbon * *\
* n
port Wine 9, J 1
Aflortcd queen's ware in crates, &c. j
lothmo-ajd. div/3taw3w. j
James C. Samuel W. Fisher, 1
AT THE.R STORE,
No. 13, corner <tf Arch and Front streets,
HAri FOR SALE,
Cotton and worlled Hosiery in trunks, aflortej
A few hales red, white, and yellow Flannels 1
Ditto Tutt rojnall Handkerahiefs
Ditto Ptthfrilififc'dittp
Ditto l*ondichert*y *nd Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal hlack TaflT ties
4000 piece»Nankeens, and
Few thefts belt Hyson Tea
Alfa —1500 bqxes kefl London Window C fs,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 khds. Glaft
Ware, afiorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city^
november »8. aawtf
Imported (via New York) on the
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefaut street, |
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes ' Dacca worked mull ins
Gillis Romals Bandannoes
Nillas & Penfiafoes Challa Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MullMuflhanherchiefs Palempores
Patna do. Banarcs Opium
LefTcr Cardinium Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox,
novemher n tuth»4w
A farm for sale,
IN Perth Amboy ja the state of New-Jersey,
of four hundred i->res, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable wood
land, and fait marui: There is on the premises,
a good apple orchard, and a variety of other
fruit tree*, It is well watered with Iprings and
brooks, it is bounded on two lides with navi
gable waters and has a good mill site, its liga
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Amb»y and its
environs* and tonvenient to the fineft filh and
oysters in their proper season, it abounds with
natural manure from which, with the advanta
ges of the fait marlh by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of stock, may at a small
expense, be enriched to a great degree and ren
dered one of the firft grazing farms in the state ;
it is well calculated for a farmer or a gentle
man's feat, having several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be fold together or
divided, as may fait a purchaser, at private
sale, or if noribld, will be set up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at thehoufe of Robert Rattome, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
theforenoon. Any person inclining to purchale
may view the premises by application to John
or Matthias Halft.M at Perth Amboy, from
whom or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Elq.
fpeak-er of the house of reprefnuatives of the
United States Bow in Philadelphia, from Mat
thias Williamfon, jun. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-To-vn further information may be
obtained)—who are poffefTed of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 179;.
2 s—eodtißD5 —eodtißD
~~ FOR SALE, bt "
Joseph Anthony Sff Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ift and id
proof, just landed
150 bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality •»
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ? In pipes
do. market do calks.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in caLs
Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Sainton 1a barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in do do
Bed Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : aen
A few tons of Ruflia cordage
RufTia f. ather beds
Clover and Timothy feed in 2afks
Long whale-bone
No i, i, and H Boston fail duck
A few chests firft quility Hyson tea
Carolina rictf in wh6lc and half tierces and
! An invoice of Dtttch'fiollow glass war.-.
November 8. dzw.
»
400,000 weight of choice St. Do
• mingo COFFEE,
FOR SALE BY
JAMES YARD.
novetnbe>r 21. ot
■ Walker & Kennedy,
JVe. 73, South Front Street, •
HAVE FOR. SALS,
100 Hogsheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
jo Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brand}*,
io Pipes of old Port Wine. -
oa. i 7.
For Sale,
That well known place, called Fjndegrift's
FIUY,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Pkila- hai
ladelphia, on the New York port road, W
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the coi
nremifes are a large two llory stone house eccu- coi
pied as a tvern, and a good one story Hone kit- vo
chen, a large frame stable with a goodthrefhing
floor, and tome out buildings—>alfo a well of no
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a moil elegantjyuation fora gentle
man's ftjt, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jun&ion wiih the Deliwajie, and (hence /
jcrofs to the JerFiy (hore. It has the privilege i
of one half the toll received from the l*ri<!ge.
For tei-ms apply to the Snldcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS. lal
Vav 14- atawtf. an
ac
For sale or to' be let on ground
rent, fca
Atpaluable Lot of Ground ; or
O ITU ATE on the north-east corner of VVai- t0
O nut and l : ifth streets, fronting'the State* t0
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet from ( c
on yValnut street, and one hundred and thirteen g
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
AlJ'o, for Sale, m
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. Gtuate on di
Water-street, between Mulberry and SafTafras (h
streets, containing in front on Water street Cf- fe
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- fu
ward nine:y-five fe«t, then widening to the R
fodth thirteen inches. These houses J
ave the convenianoe of a public alley adjoining A
on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua- h
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who. s
may have occasion for storage of goods. This J
property will be fold on very real'onable terms 0
fortafti For further information apply to the A
printer.
Julv 31. m&wtf '5
Jujl Published,
And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice, ~
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in the
' city,price oi;e dollar, twinty-fire cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origih of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June ao. *6t
School Books and Stationary, d
W. Y O~LJ NG, f
No. 51, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large aflbrt-
ment of Eng[ijh, French, Latin and Greet
SCHOOL BOOKS. Atfo, such elementary books -
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States. I
LATELY f U BUSHED,
Sheridan's DiiSionary, the filth edition, in one '
large vol. X vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, Urge 11 mo price I dol. 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, priming, and 1
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paftehoards,.
(heathing and blotting Papers ; printed Blanks,.
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ef
the best quality, used in tkc counting house, or
public office. | -
Catalogues ef a miscellaneous collection of; '
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OS. 14. —3aw6w J 1
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
r"T"*HIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,:
X at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, I'V.ry Tut/Jay, Thursday, and Satnr- ; .
iay, at 3 o'clock, ia the irorning ; arrives at no- <
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second (lay, at,
Northampton Court House the third day, and o«:
the morning of-the fourth day the paffengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to 1
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdiy, Thursday and Satutdsy, aud the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday, puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance rn this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between those places
Too much cannot! be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft 11. dim.eotf.
City of Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
1 . For the Improvement of the Fedefal City.
Araagnificentdwelhng-houfe 10,000 dollais,
k cash 30,000, are
1 ditto 15,000 & cash ij,ooib 40,00 a'
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
i ditto 10,000 4c calh 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10, oat
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of »0,000
1 do., 5,000 each,are • 10,000
' 10 do. 1,000 - ' - 10,00 c
10 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
100 do. 5° * " 10,000
400 do. 15 - - 10,000
1,000 do. 10 ■ 30,000
15,000 do. 10 • 155, 00r
► ,
1*7.39 Pr-ize-s-
H, 161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00s
N. B. To favour those whs may takeaqoan
-1 tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,00 c the last
but one : .....
And approved notes, securing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received sot any number not less than 3® tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ol
the private buildings to be ere&ed in the City oi
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
leleAed for the entire frorttron two of thepcblit
squares; from these drawip.gsit ispropofed toered
twocentreand f ourcorrter buildings,as fconaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
• when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir
the manner described in the icheme for the
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray thencceffary expenses of print
ing, Ac. and the surplus will be made i part of
the fund intended lor the National Univerltty, to
be erecled within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritjesgiven for the payment of the
Srizes, are held by the President and two Diredl
ors of the Bank of Columbia, Valued at
more than half the amount ol the l«tt*ry.
'» SAMUEL BLODGET.
,§, Tickets may be had at tjie Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
■Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
f sod of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry, mwf
RE MOV J £
Maurice Moynihan, /
INFORMS his friends and the public, that lie
has removed his Store of China, Glals, Queeus
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor of his former customers.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the Ihorteft
notice.
novembcr a, dtf
Real Estate for Sale,
\ PLANTATION, in a healthy and good fi
£\. tuation on Chester Creek, in Middleton
Townfliip, Delaware County, containing
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land, well timbered ; tho remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, many more
acres can ba made at a small expencc. There are
on said pcemifos, a good-orchard of befl grafted
fruit, a house, with a spring near the door, a frame
bam with stabling under, and'a log tenemunt on
one part of said place.—Any perfoo inclining
to purchase, may view the premises by applying
to Wm. Penkbll, on said farm, ahd know tha
crms by applying to Jonathan PENNn.L,in the
to rough of Clucuer.
Bnovember n. 3teod
Philadelphia, OS. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their friends and custo
mers in town and country,that their (lores are now
open in the city, a.l others are daily opening, arid
tbat from thr present appearance of the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
fhortlv come to the city with perfect fafrty. By '
several late arrivals, numbers have received frelh
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith Us Co. P. W. Gallaudet (Sf Co.
John Da-vis £s* Co. Sitgreaves & French,
h'eill & Smith, George Dobfon,
H'l'itbrrger and Smith, Thomas Ryer/on,
Alex BiljMtnd and Co. T. R. Hardeuberg.
Jacob Sfierry and Co. John Smith and CV
Ozueniy Jona.Jtnes, Thomas Orr,
Keppele & Zantzinger, William Barker & Co.
Adam Zantxjnger, Thomas Armat i 3 Son.
John Fries, J. Milter, jun. unit C».
Benjamin &J. Jthnfon.
oa. 14
POYNTIiLL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefiiut-ftreet,
IVhere he has for Sate,
AVERY extensive stock, of every colour, and
of the molt approved paturna, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety Of bor
ders to suit.
ALSO
A bandfomc affortmcnt of the mod falhion&ble
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very bed plain Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel lepers and a rich variety of Borrffcrs.
4l»vember r. eo6t
fofCsalm, ■
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
young, tlrong, true to the draught, and capable
; of hauling as great a weight as most in the coun
try. The Wagpon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Chelier county., ort:o
Thomas Fijher,
No. 142, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
11 mo. 2, eodjw.
imported inthefliipMAN Chester,
BfNJAMIN Shewiil, '.\er,
From Bourdeaux, and for file by the fubferiber.
No. 11. AVatout Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "}
; Irilh market daret in cases ( Entitled to
. Kledoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd..
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
1 Sherry Wine in pipes and quartw caflcj
Rota do. do.
> Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tMt&3tf.
i Peale's Museum.
1 ' ■ HIS valuable repofitary of the works of Na
cj X. ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the understanding, is opened daily, a«
' uAlal. It Hands in an airy and healthy situation,
s and free from the epidemic that at present afflifU
f the city; it may, therefore, he frequented with
'■ the greatefl fafety.
c As an At-rufement, the (ludy of Nature is the
most rational and pleating : as a Science, the most
sublime and inflru&ive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
" IVLotrt Nature*t ivtrki can charm, udttb God himftlf
" Held converse. '
Many interring additions have lately been
<nad« to this Museum : ard the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
s fubje<3», is now very advantageously arranged.
' Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of them
0 , calls from nature) are here dressed in their proper
habits, and placed in attitudes characteristic of their
° refpeflive nations. Here may be fecH the North
-0 American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
c ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentle
-0 man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
-0 with some Natives of the South Sea (Hands. The
°, immense variety and interesting diversity which
L this Museum offers to the view, may be seen but
' r , oannotbe described with full effsd.
10 gjf Price only l-4th of a dollar.
10 Seyt. 1%. _ raw
£ Davis's Law Book Store,
,0 No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING bulled for some time pad in prepara
tions.for removing into his prafent house, has
~ been undertheneceflityof poftponinguntil thisday
>" informing the gentle ntuu ofthe Bar generally thro'
- the United States, that his spring importation of
i": law books is now arranged and ready for lale,' 011
>e termsthat he trulls will entitlehim to tjiolike pre
n freence he has experienced for leveral years-pad.
Catalogues, combining the most, varied collec
er lion ever imported into this country, are printed
ill and will be delivered on application,
k- June IJ. taw »
01 Boston Glal's Manufactory.
o! citizens of the United States are hereby
iy -L informed* that the manufa&urc cf Window
tit G'afc ii» now commenced at. the Glass House in B di
et ton.
>f- It is needlcfs to fay any thing of the excellent
in, quality of the Bolton Glass, aait isfo well knovrn
ir throughout the United States to be in every refpcil
te) greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe,
ill It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
it- may he constantly had by applying to Charles F.
of Kupfkr., at the Glass Hojufe.
to Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
\ic Boston, Sept 30,1797 O 4 —aaw6w
fl- JVfrffrs- Timothy and Mafon y Charleston ; Mejfrs.
at Hodge and Boylan, Halifax, N. C. Mejfrs. Willett
and O'Connor* Norfolk ; JSdr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejfrs. Tundt atni Brou>n> Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
PH.
ter /on/ ; Mr. Si ymour y Savannah ; are requejled to insert
1 tie above ontt a week 6 urt'ih. The aetoupte te be for-
Wf u>arde J&ditor»