»'"»
NVMBEK 1649.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR T GOODS.
T Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. j6,
/ outh Front-ftrett,
) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6<
C South Front-ftrcet.
r Forenoon— Jolyi Connelly, Old City
Tuefelayl . r Au^lon > No. 73 f.ut'h l'ront-ftreet.
) Afternoon-r-William Shannon, No.
C 18.1 High-flreet.
TTedxefJay J Af '"noon—Peter 3enfon, No. 74
C south Third-ftrcet.
. Thursday V Forenoon—Edward Fox.
I Aft-ernoon—John Connelly.
' Friday I Forenoon— William Shannon.
J Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
Marshals Sales,
Unitud States, 1
Pennsylvania DiflriA. j
BY vrtue of a Writ of venditioni exponas, issued
out of the Circuit Court Jof the United States
in and fw the Pennsylvania Dilii ift of the Middle'
tnrcuit, and to me diretfed will be fold at public
lule at the Marshals Office iii Race Street No 117
on Sat orday the 30th day of December infl." at ii
V'f r " ~00n ' Uvo e 'cg»nt engraved Copper plates
ut Shilcefpeare, one plate of Harmony, Bartolezzi,
one p ate of prudence, do. one plate ot nieeknti'i, do
one plate of beauty, do. and one plate of Harveft
homc do—.Seized and taken in execution as the
property of Tiiflrain Bampfylde Freeman, and
' John Nicholfon, Merchants, trading unier the firm
of Fiveman and Company! J
And to be fold by
William Nichols, Mar/hal.
Marshals office 1
December ifrth 1797. | dtf
Marjlial's Sales.
United' States, 1 .
Pennsylvania Diftrift, j" <
1) Y virtue of writs of venditioni exponas, issued
J. J Out of the diltria court of the United States, and
to me direfled, will be fold at public Sale at the mer- I
Chant sCoffee.Houle, in Second (Ircet, on Wednelday
tne 27th day of December inft. »t 6 o'clock in the
evening, a|] that piece or pjreel of meadow ground
fituste, lying and being in the township of Paffyunck,
aitd ciunty ot Philadelphia, on the road leading tor I
State Ifljnd Ferry, containing about fifty.four acres J
and three perches, whereon are erefted a two story
brick Messuage, out houses and-» barn ; also one on
tner trail or piece of meadow giound, (kuate in the
"Jv! tQwriOiip and coun'y, and nearly on the ospofite ®
fide ofthefaid roadtothe said Terry,containingHxteen a
crCs& threequarterst alfoamcffuageortenementand lot V
or piece of ground fuuate on the north fide of High
flreet, between jth and 6th streets, in the eily of Phi
-1 adelphia, containing in fronton High flreet, thirty
three teet. and in length or depth two hundred feet,
bounded east by property of Hannah Pemberton,
north by South alley, weft by property of William
Bell, and south by High street atorefaid.
Seized and taken in execution as the property of
Heftry Seckel, and to be fold by
William Nichols, Metrjhal.
Marlhal'B Office, 7
December 15. 1707. f
December rt dtf
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
llf not before disposed of at private falc) X
/jN Monday the firfldayof January next, at fix Sp
V-/ o'cfock in the evening, at the Merchants' Co
ffee Hoafe, in Philadelphia, Tweoty-Six Thoo&nd hu
Seven Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the gr<
TJtate of New-York, betv/een the northern bounds Wi
©f Pennfylyania and the Su'quehanna, now, or late fag
in tht townships of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One foarth of the parcVafe
money to be paid at the time of sale ; for the residue ►
credit of one, two and three months, will be gircn,
on good feturify. ,
ec * 4* t
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private fait)
ON Monday the firit day of January next, at fix
o'cloek intheevening, atthe Merchants' Coffee A
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun- I
dred and Thirty.Nine acres of LAND in Green I !Jl
county, Commenwealth of Pennfylvania,on tha Wa- I ®
tcrs of Fish and Wheeling Creek, and teu Mile Rup. I ™
Thtfe lands are'fertile, well timbered and abound in I
coal; they wcVc U!d ten years ago for 53 per aire,
patented eailv in 1787, except 3.700, which were pa- I
tented in 17Q3 ; the greatest part of them were fur- I A
ytyed iA 1783. Rbi
This traft is between the Ohio and Monongahela, I I
veryconveiiicnt to water carriage—aWut 19 milesfrom I
the town of Waihington, and from 1410 16 from the I
villages of Greenfburgh and Wheeling. One fourth I
of the* purchase m>mey is to be paid at th. time of I
ft!* ; for the rehdue a credit of one, two, and three |
months will be given, on interest and good security. I
Dec. 1. l3tawtj. I
VV A N T E D, II
|t lAHCE rAtcti ot I *'■*
Scantling and other Lumber, b ° a "
Suitable for House Building ; I p
Alfoa quantity of Stone & Bricks, I,oai
I am ready to enter into contra&a for the a- I
bove articles—a reasonable time may be allowed I ni
for preparing them j and cash (hall bepaid either j
ift advance, or upon their delivery, asfmay he a- j i
greed on.—Apply to the Subscriber, House-Car- I '
pentler, Lombard-street, No, s.
"John Crean. j.
December i<j. dt. I
STOLEN ®
Out of the fubferiber's office a large blue I Sails
clothcloai,ha\{ worn. Theinfideof the Collar I Pass:
is faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly
Avith scarlet cloth, and it has a silver hook
and chain as a failening. A fnitable reward I
will be paid for restoring it.
WILLIAM MEREDITH
No. in South 3d Street. I Hav<
Dec. 16. diwj
BY virtue of an order of the Orphan's Court, I
will be exposed to Sale, on the 16th current, I
at 9 o'clock, a. m. at the premises, a small frame I
Houle and Lot, fitirated on the corner of Bpruce I
and Eighth streets, fubje<Sl to an annual ground 1
rent of fifteen pounds, late the property of An- I
thony I.tbeck, deecafed. I
MAKOARE r LEBECIC, Adminijlratrix. I
December j6. |
TO LET,
A Front Room, suitable for an I may i
Office or Counting house, with a large Cellar. I
.Any pcrfon who may rent the abdVe, may (if re- I
ijuired) l>e accommodated with Board and l.odj*- 1
ing in the fame house. Enquire at no. 180, South !
Front, near Pine street. | jfe
Decanbtr 13, 33W3W , J novt
I
PHILADELPHIA,' THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 31 , r m .
For Savannah, in Georgia,
The Ship ARAB,
t> ,"'' HOMAS Donohui, Matter, .
Ready to fail—Can accommodate a few
o. 6s For Surinam and Curracoa,
Citv THK brio
irret. George Waihington,
No. Josh Divntux
. . Mailer.
074 For Freight, or Piffage, apply to
STEPHEN KINGSTON,
No. 46 Walnut, or 33 Botk-ftreet,
Who has a fiu Boxes of
Bloom and Mufcacel Raisins, and
Gin in Pipes.
December 18. * 2t
For Savannah,
(To fail on or before Sunday, the 24th inft. unlets
prevented by the ice)
ITued The fad failing Ship
Ti' Swift Packet,
i!>lic Patrick OribbeD, Master.
117. T TAS excellent accommoda
t 1 a ll fioni for paftengert.
1 f For Freight or paflage, apply to
22 i, N. iff J. Frazier,
'•do n0.95, south Front flreet.
"k" avt f or Sfl'i received by the Ja'td /hip,
the New RICE, in whole and half tierces.
?" d December 16 d lw
On THURSDAY next, the 10th inft.
At the Tontine Coffee-Houfe in Neiu-Torlt,
3/, Will be Sold without reserve, tile
Ship SWIFT,
Burthen two hundred and nine*
ty tons, a remarkable fait sailer,
built, and well found.
Inventory to be Teen on board, at the Old Slip. t
or at no. 178, Pearl-ftrett, New, York.
led December 16 »d;t
H For Amlterdam,
? F A R,
to J o *"* WCctlloK, Matter;
cs WlftL'fail in a feW day*, the
lf y greater part of her cargo being
0 . ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas- *
he fa S«. apply to the matter on board, at Walnut'
ite flreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
ot Who '•» Laftding, out of the laid Ship, from Boar- j 1
'j l deaux, and For Sale, 1
',y Claret in hhds.
:t, White Wine in quarter calka
n ) Claret in cases, of a superior quality
m Fantiniac, } N
Sauterne, V Wines in cases I
°f Lunille, ) »
Prunes in boxes cf i
november 24. C ag
• —Z_ ui
For Londonderry, de
_ ' . th
, - THE BRIGANTINI \ Ct
s UK ET t I? 1
t William Whitt*n, Matter. "
■ c -' '■" A strong good veflel, about two „
il hundred tsns, to fail with all convenient speed, a
e great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
s Willing and Francis'swharf. tor freight or pas- _
e sage, apply to the captain, or
; JOHN SKYRIN, Fr<
Lant/enitrgtr't tvbarf.
, Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov 18. §
For Sale or Charter,
! fjmkj GOOD HOPE,
1 (TgsSM Wi;i carry about 1100 barrels,and
yJoTSfflj is ready to take in a cartro. For terms
apply to r
' Pragers & Co.
• j 1 No. 151, South Second-street. „
Who have for falc—prime St. Croix Sugar and c
Rum, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf. "
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship u
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain. HT
A Lar * c P ro P orci on of her
' x\. cargo being ready to go on on
board, is expe&cd to fail on or about Sunday, the w f r '
3d of December. this
For Freight or Pafiage, apply to the Captain on j
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to M ar
PHILIP NICKLIN Co.
November »l. § f]
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Ch is holm,
ncw vessel, with excellent
acconynodations for paflengcrs-
Sails on the loth of December. Ft>r Freight or
PafTage, apply to ROSS ts* SIMSON.
IVbo have to of y
A small invoice of GLAUBF.R SALTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. 5
Rundle & Leech, no
Have received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut ftrtfet,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. bed house COAI.S __
Queens' WARE in cases, aflorted YY
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality c
Do. CLARET-incases, do.
THFY save also -"sick,
For SALE " r CHARTER, BX
PEGGY,
Burthen 115 tons, in excellent condition, and "
may be sent to sea with little expellee or delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILLIAM,
November 16.
A.
By John Fenno, N° u 9 Chefnut Street.
a ' For Charlcfton,
/" . THE SHIP
VENUS,
; r -y\r"' u < ■ w '"rt p er <,tt,
a 11 wke Freight on very
a, O | ow terms, and fail tlie iirft
opening. Apply to the mafhr on board, or to
i, Jos. Anthony & Co.
petember .8 j
Fresh Raisins.
eet A S " " rg8 ' ln( l «ow landing
> -i Xat Chefnut flreet wharf, from thefloopYa
rico. capt. Haflrell, confifjing of ICegs, Boxes and
and Ja«- A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and sacks
of oft ftielled Almonds.—s— Apply to the Maftcr
on board, or to
2 Jos. Anthony & Co.
Occember 19
jnlels Phili? V Co.
have FQR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
Savannah Sugars j vvhiteandbrown
er. 15 hhds. Jamaica do.
loda- Jooo pieces of broad Nankeens
Impem! Tea, in quarters and eighths of chests
Qurtkfilvfr in tubs
r adeir ,? W,nt '"n P'pe» and hogtheads
m Teneriffe Wine in pipet
shit Port W,ne in bogflicads
P> Sail Canvass, assorted, N». Ito 8
w Mancheftcr Cioor!,. confiding of Dimities, •
Muflmets, fhickfctts, C«duroys, &c
ft. 200 crates q, sens' Ware, alTorted 1
)r [ t Nails, assorted
' Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in caiks "
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
ine. 100 quarter Calks G u » Powder
fer, Ibex lay,, a lf o fi r SAI.E or CHARTER,
Thefhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a I
lip, good vessel, and completely fitted.
t Th( brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar-
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
The whole of the above veffeltts be seen at *
Walnut flreet Wharf. j mm. 10.
Wanted to Charter,
A Britilh v.ffel, fifteen hundred
• tW ° t^lou^an< ' ® vc hundred bar
ul Peter Blight,
WHO HIS FOR SALE,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes and hoglheads,
)r . a ? d old Lo »don Particular Madeira, fit lor imme
diate use, in pipe*. A
December 10 <ilw
~ FOR SALE, at "
Wm. Young's B»ok Store, A
No. .(i, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street, Q,
REPORT ml tho Committee of the House of H
Reprufentati vee of the United States, appoint,
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
again ft WILLI KM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of nigh crimes and mis. Ni
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of G(
the Houft Of Repreftntatives, authorising th« said CJ
Committee to fit during the recess of Coogrefs, and Sp
infttuaing them «to enquire, and, by all lawful p r
" means, to discover the whole nature and extent cb
" of the offence wh.reof the Tald WlUiam Blonnt
, Q " Hands impraehe.i, and who are tlw Jartits and Be
a " affociatestherein." / Nc
lt Printed by order of the Houft tf Refrefintatives. A
C_ December ao. § Ru
NOW~LANDING, ci,
From on board the ship Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf, N °
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wine in do.
For Sale, apply to
John Whiteftde & Co.
Nb. 138, S aUtet--ftKi;t.
Also, on band, „
Bourc'eaux Brandy in pipes
1 Fine old Antigua Rum • p
s A few cales of Clarel, of a superior quality, ,
november 29. §
Landing this day, of '
j From on board th« fchoontr Two Friends, Dan- tiot
lei Crawley, Master, taV<
. RUM, &
FOR SAUK BV wh<
George Ldfimcr & Son.
uovemher 9. J
James Sff Richard 3&hh,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends such
and the public, that they have removed their .u,
llore to No. 54 n South Front Jlrtit, next d«*>r to Ed- ,| lc .
ward Fox's Auilion Room, where they have at t (, e
this time for fale,a large and general affor(rnent of | t
European Iff Eafl India Goods, cons
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier, very
William Peon, &c. Sic. ted ;
Oifl. ty. $ into
NOW LANDING, ™, nn
At South-street Whal-f, r
The Cargo of the Ship Concord\ Hucc
Captain Thompson, from Hitavia. '
About 300 tons firft quali-y Java Coffee (the ■
whole having been feltflcd)
80 tonß Java Sugar, in canifl.rS and bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack |.
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves J
FOR S.ILB nr K
PETER BLIGHT.
IVbo also offers For Sale, q c
Just landed from Ihip Amity, from Jamaica. \
20® hhds Jamaica Sugar, and D;
170 do. do. Rum. q;
november 13. d6w Di,
—— ' -s Dil
Canal Lottery-—No. 11. J 0 c ;
r ? ;'- " Fei
WIIJ- commence the zoth JSj
inft. Tickets for in tills Lottery, at from
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery "- are
and Brokers OlEce, No. 64, South Secofld-ftreet than a
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Teh nOl
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register- i4~
ing and examining in these, the City of Waftiing
| ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa- Pay
[ tion where tickets may be haifin mod of the Lotto- ehand:
: rres authorifad by law 111 any of the States of the ed'tioi
'Union. Chcfn
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, Or 1
difcounti-.g Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of ,-p.
Lands, Houses, <Scc. &c. will be duly attended to, 'ha
by Wm. BLACKBURN. ' No.
»v%umitr
notice.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAF's
and EDIVARD FOT S Engagements
Pcrotts I a c ° nle 1" fr ' ce ot many having been prevent
n vlrv , • m , a,e UN '" i^bl ' f ircumftance S from
be iJI T°T ifiCateS ' t0 fo ™er
or to lot, - ce ' The rruftt-cs now inform them, they
are ready to issue the fame to tliiife who may ap
c P T'r <U >' S ' at No " 8 Chefnut Street,
—L- "J'nofe who cto not, will betor.fidercd an re .
linquiftiing their cliim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their pavmefit.
"ding HENRY PRATT,
P Ya " THC MAS VV. FRA NCIS,
' san d JOHN MILLER, JUN.
r " !ls JOHN ASHLEY,
,after _ JACOB BAKER.
December 15. d6ot
•* t notice? '—
- THE Creditors of the Estate of f/alter
Stewart deceafrd, are rcquelted to meet on
Monday next at 6 o'clock in the eveoing
' _ at l City Tavern—The business upon
whlch the Y are to deliberate being of great
importance they are requested not to fail to
lt give their attendance.
Dec. 15.
WANTS A PLACE, •
As coachman, a black Man, who can produce
the bell recommendations. Enquire of the prin
ities, Dec, ,6-djt -
& c . landing, ;
From on board th« ftip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from London,
60 tons of the best clean Russia ,
&c hemp J
60 raiksof bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. 21, P«nn-ilroet. c
, a Witlings Francis. "
OA. 31. j '
ar ' Just arrived,
, at From Port-au-Prince, and v for Sale fcy the ftfbfcri-
i l ers > No. ax, Penn-ftreat,
u4J e ]
*> {Prime Coffee j
ar " 6 46 bag. J A
Willinvs Ss* Francis.
OA. *B. 0
FOR SALE, si
4s, Jofcph Anthony & Co.
IC " No. $, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Braady, xft and ad *
proof, just landed "
tjo bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do «
A qujtitity of heavy black pepper in bales f
!t < Bourbon Indigo of tbe firft quality
of High proof Jamakalpirits
nt OU London particular Madeira wine /In pipe. St Nil
le do. market do C qr. caflu.
New England rum in hogfheadi
Genuine Holland Gin in pipe. r, 1
'd Clam in oafe.
'<l Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil „ a
ul Prime Boston beef ~. 0 ..
at Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrols
n j Do. Herring in do do
Id Bell Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare. H l'
New-England tuw l : »«n 3
>• A few tons of RafCa cordage J
\ Russia feather beds °. t
Clover and Timothy ffced in jaiks
's on g bone
No I, i, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chef!', firft quality Hyson tea _ ,
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
November 8. t i, w t0 J
— —f L all ]
New-Theatre, re<l
December 11, 1797.
THE JManagfrs particularly request tbe con- £
currence of the public in the abolition of a '
cuftova, Which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
'• way or cKfpofing of RETURN CHECKS at the °PP|
Theatre. ,n
They are aware that gentlemen are unconfeioro u' A
of any wrong done to the interest of the inllitu- R •"!
- tion by thispraiflicc, from a general, though mis- ' c
taken idea that Checks ai-e the reprefentatlves of a
right to so many feats in the Theatre, during an
Evening'* Entertainment, atid transferable at will;
when in faijl, they were never intended- as more 1
than hhm by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to a (certain with the It-alt trouble to ihe furtin, th ( t B.
liey ticmftlva have been before in the I'hcatre, or Ja
paid for their admission.
, Independent of the injury the Managers sustain, an
' such a praftice encourages a croud of i'dj>e boys and 3c
other difordcrly ptrfons to surround the doors of A
the Theatre, to the corruption of their moral* and O
. the great annoyance of the Audience. ~
It has also been the fouroe of two evils of no in- CI
considerable magnitude; one is, that fomctimes
, very improper company is by these means admit-
ted ; and the other, that owiu <to Checks pafling C
into dilhbneft hands, tliey have bet-n frequenaly . 1
counterfeited to a large amount for the purposes of . ' 6
Sale. 1 r Lorn
This ftatenient will, it isrefpeiftfully hoped, in- lulU
dticethe Public to difcouragc such a traffic : and
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus afli lied, y, \
easily prove adequate to its entire abolition comi
WIGNELL £3* REINAGLE. Fu «'
December 13 lw
James C. £sf Samuel VV. Filher, na
AT THE R STORE,
N0.513; corner of Arch and Front streets, * m F
HArE F&R SALE,
Cotton and worsted Holiery in trunks, aftbrted s3f 3 ' 1
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels ? et
Ditto futty romall Handkerchief in ß
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs , (
Bengal black TalT. ties '
4000 pieces Nankeens, and *
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfo —ijoo boxes best I.ondon Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
are,- afTorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any iri the city. " nov
november »8. 3awtf
Alphabetical Lilt of Duties, A T
Payable by law on *ll Gobds, Warts, and Mer- w i t ], a
chandize, imported into the United States—latest voun<r
edition, to be fold by JOHN ORVIROD, no. 41. „f
Cftcfnnt-ftreet. Dec. 16-d
TO BE SOLD, ~ i^goo.
Or Exchangedfor Property in the Country, Welt'
That three (lory Brick House,
No. 157. north Third street. Apply at the of
fice ef riiis tf»«ette. uov. 29
>AP D A e L aW , are a " d Sch "y'W» Canal.
A >hr >7" meftin e cf ,he Stockholders of
nts f- * th e Delaware and Schuvlfeil l Canal ;= » i.
event " thi ft ' hCi A ° fficC int Vnh of
' tV " m ann D , £CClnll£r > at 6 P. M^reciVely
wmtr of Mrfuunaß . a " CHdai,f(: 15 on raattai*
& 5^«5a535255/s:
££ 3fc»A«daS§
Fund P tt S PP l' of wa:cr in'" tKo fame S
SMITH, **,.
T~r ltfth
fS » lnlurance Company
° F PENNSYLVANIA.
T HcSifln f i! ,B ' e htrreby notified, that an
X i.le6tion for thirteen Direflors to serve for
M C y r r ' T' bchM at lhj company', Office on
th£ d « hth da ? ° f January neat, at 'xl
D «™ J™' w - FIS "E R .
Ipon o AjiftTDdhTßankiNote;
Teat tLiaw ,hc United States - *«M «« Sa
il to and tL H tWee " the BaMll o{ <*>= United State,
to and the Horse market—lf an honest person hi»
thev (h'in 11 1 W ir taVe " W th ,lle Pri:ucr hereo *}
they (hall be fytnrffemc-l} rewarded.
i)t - c "' mbcr n. eodJc
d»ce i>ank of North America.
ri °" 1 7 flli _ Stoc!lt i"Mcrs are her«hy notified, that an
wilf h"h M tWC 'r Direaors ' the °nf«i„g vear,
w.ll be held at the Bank on Monday, thslth of
January nett, at ten o'clock. ' «
" RICHARD WELLS, CaJbL-r.
[fia - r D^ mbw "- ' -~i*n.r
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
1 HE Motkholders are hereby notified, that the
Managen. lor the enfu.
thffi.ft<l, ■ 5 at the com pa»r's office, ou
wu un^n^''oo'clock,*.M.
_ W I M - MOORE SMITH, See'ry.
December 11. mw&ftdij
cri- Schu y 1 kiltana Sulquehanna Canal.
* Hi. Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
eleflion for Prefidejit and Managers for the enfu-
ISfirtM * hdd , at thc Co "P an >' s °»
the firft Monday in January next, at jo o'clock
Dec - "■ mw&ftiflml'
•JUST RECEIVED
; (via New-York)
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
J( j No. »j, south Third street,
An cxtenfive and general aflortment of
<r HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bcft London mixt Pin, | Galloons and Ferret.
Common do. do. Worsted Binding affor-
Makeniie sfuper,patent ted colours
. M Niedle. Imperial, diaper and
& Nun. Throad no. 6to Thread Tape,
4°, regularly aflbrted White Ed e ine.
rite T V°' BUk a " d coloured Chi
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
„ , do - Sattin and figured do
r l ?!T e Sills Bl«kVelvetfi.4 toi»d
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Sattin.
'Sfaa: tsti **
ttSXiSS" "£J? *»<
t* rt. nd 3 mpk V afr ° rtment of Goods, fu it able
to th. prelent and apprceching- fcafon, at reduced
P *' JDec. 6. dtf
the partnership or
Richard fcf James Potter,
mmuj > c ° nr °nt- All
X person. u.debted to the said firm, are rcqutfted
.to pay the feme t° ei-her of the fubfe. iber,'; and
all perfonshaving any demands agaiaft them, are
requsfted to fend their accounts foi settlement.
Richard Potter,
„ . , Jama Potter.
Deeember 9,
a The Subscriber intends to make
application for rtie tenewal of a Certificate of a Share
i 7A he B a to of t Un r^ s si 7i i 7' rtand ' n^^"-
s havL 4 ' dilcd J u 'y "• '797. <he feme
" Dec. 1. JOHNGR AHA M._
' KOSS iff SIMSON, ~
have for sale,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
1 a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bag's and boxes
Jamaica, *)
St. Vincents, C RUM.
, and Bengal j
300 caflts RICE, iod
A parcel of Unbuilding RED' CEDAR.
Chocolate and Ivlufh^d,
of a superior quality manufactured,
O , « d Pe PPer. ground ; fhelfed 0 r
V pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
A.e and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale •
London Porter ; red. Port and Lilbon Wine,
luiuhle for exportation or home consumption.
The biggie ft price given for Muliard-Seed.
Al J° Jor/ale, A quantity of Booking and
common Baizes, a variely of colors ; a bale of
ruitians, Shiwlfi) &.c 9 for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
Na. 98, south Front-flreet
. V' I. -
Imported (via New York) on the
ftjp Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the lubfenber, at No. 61, Chefnut llreet,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing article. .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorens
Chintz and Cahcoe. Dacca «oAed muflta,
Gilhs RomaU Bandannocs
Nillas & Penfiafoes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
Mull Mullhankcrchiefs Palempores \
f at (r a o ,• d °" Banares Opium
Letter Cardtmum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox,
. nOVCTlber *7
FOR SALE X "
A Team of five excellentHorfes
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horse* are all
young, Urong, true to the draught, and capab'e
of hauling as great a weight as most in the conn
try. rhe \\ aggon and Gears are Hronp, and
m good ° rd «r. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
vVelt Town, county, or^;o
Thomas Fisher,
No. 141, S„ Second Street,
11 "'?•?» eod-;.
[Volume XIISINKING FUND. ,
"The following Report of th: Secretary of the fr'afurj) to the Cimmi/Jionfrt of the Sinking Fund [which formed a part of the Report Com
miffioners us the Sinking Fund laid before the L'gijlature of the United States on the slb infant) <we doubt not will prove highly interring
particularly to fueh of our waders as are inltrcjltd in the Public Funds ; we, therefore, havtA)btamed a copy of it for publication :
. The Secretary of the Treasury rejpeflfully reports to the Ctinimijfioncrs, of the Sinking Fund,
THAT no purchaf?s of the Debt oft he United States have been made since the date ?f the lait report to Congress, on the fixt.eenth
day of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-fix ; and that the Turns heretofore purchased, amount to two millions three
hundred and seven thousand fix hundred and sixty-one dollars and seventy-one cen's, for which there have been paid in specie the sum of
one million fix hundred and eighteen thousand nine hundred and thirty-frx dollars and four c erts, as will tuiutc particularly appear from
tbe document hereto annexed, marked A. v
That exclusive of certain reimburft-tnenrs to the Bank of the United States, which were reported to Congrefson the twenty-fifth
day of January, one theufand fevjn hundred and ninety-leven, the following turns have been applied towards the discharge of the princi
pal Debt of tbe United States, during the prefeiit year.
I ft. To the second installment of the fix per cent, stock, bearing a present intcreft, which, pursuant to tfee aft iutiUed " /\n aft mak
ing further provifioki for the support of public credit and for the redemption of th* public debt," passed oa the third day qf March, one
thousand seven hundred and nihety-five, and the aft in addition thereto patTed on the twenty-eighth day yf Ajjr3, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-fix, became payabL- on the iirtl day of January, one thousand seven hundred'and nioety-feveii,4l)c sum of
Dollars 64.1,674 76
2d. To the payment ofaloan, obtained of the Bank of New-York, pursuant to the aft entitled " An aft making pro
vision so* the payment of certain debts of the United States," patTed on the thirty-firft day of May, one thousand fcv<jn
lumdred and ninety-fix. - - - - - - - ■* - - 1 . ' " 3251,000 00
• 3d. To the payment of part of a loan obtained of the Bank of the United States, to an aft entit/ed
«< An aft makfng further appropriations for the military and'naval eftablithments and, for the support of government,"
y.it Ted on the third day of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five. - - - . 260,000.. 00
4th. To the payment of part of a loan had of the Bank of the United States, pursuant to an aft entjt}gd "An
aft authorizing a loan os-two million of dollars," patTed on the eighteenth day of Dtvembei;, one thousand seven hun»
dred and ninety-four. - - - - - ■ - * t - 300,000 op
sth. To the payment of premiums which fell due in the present year on the loan of two million of guilders obtained
111 Holland, on the ninth day of March, one thousand seven hundred, and eighty-four, being two hundred thousand
guilders, estimated at forty cents per guilder. - - .r; - ■ r,i " " 80,900 00
6th. To the payment of the installment of one million of guilders in Holland, which fell due the present year,
pursuant to a contrast dated June the eleventh, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-two, estimated at forty cents f
per guilder. - - - - - ■ * - - 400,000 00
Amounting in the whole to - Dollars 2,001,674 7^
The Secretary has not yet icceived official information that the installment last mentioned ha 6 been aftually discharged, but he con
siders the faft as certain, as it is known that fufficient remittances had reached Amfttrdam, and that the Comroiflioners had engaged
that the reimbursement tho'uld bd effefted On the firft day of September last. *»; .. . . '
The payments before enumerated have been made out of the following fujids.
ift. The proceeds of fix hundred and twenty shares of the capital stock of the Bank of the United States, which have been fold in
the aft entitled " An aft making provition for the payment of certain debts of the tbe proceeds of which
have betf< placed in the Treasury, a 9 appears fronvthe proceedings of the accounting officers tranfmitted, marked B, /hewing
the dates and particulars of the said sales. - - - - Dollars 304,260 eo
id. The proceeds of eighty thousand dollars of the fix per cent, stock authorized to be constituted by jjhe aft before
mentioned, which have been fold and plated hi the Treasury, as will appear by the proceedings of tlie acqoun'ting officers
of the Treasury herewith transmitted marked C, thewing the dates and particulars of the said sales. - 70,090 00
3d. The Interest fund, or .the sum» which accrued upon the stock purchased and vefteti in the Cofliftuffiongr* otf the
Sinking Fund in tnijl for the United States, as particularly stated in the documents hereto annexed, marked D. 89,159 57
4th. The fund arising froift" the payment of debts, which originated prior to the present Conftitytion of the United
States, also particularly stated in the docyment marked J) 2. - ■ - r . 10,274 38
sth. The funds arising from established Revenues, and appropriated for the reduftion ofxhe debt* of tfie United States,
being for the period, and in reference to the objefts contained; in this report. > • < - 1,527,980 81
• " y. '»" '
Making in the whole a sum eqpal to the reimbursements before-mentioned, - Dollars 3,001,674 76
The growing produce of the Intereft'Funds, the receipts for sales of Lands in the North Weftcrn Territory, together with the films
received and expefted from the eftablithed Revenues, are estimated by tbe Secretary as fufficielit for the ecimburTement of two in ft ail
ments of Loans heratofore obtained of the Bank of the Unite"d States, which will fall due atthe close of the present year, amounting to
four hnndred thbufantl dollars, and to the reimbursement of the third,inftallihent of the fix per' cent, /loci, bearing a prefeat interest ;
a statement of the amount and application of the said funds will be exhibited to the Board with ths next report. . ,
All which is raoft refpeftfully submitted, by
Treasury Department November 30th, 1797. OLIV. WOLCOTT, Secretary of the Treasury.
(A.)
Statement of the Purchases of Public* Stock by the Agents to' fie Trujlees named in the ait for the Reduction of the Public Debt.
Total amount of stock purchased by the agents Six per Cent ThreeperCent. Dr(rred stocJt. Amount of thefcyer>l Mopin expended in
to the Trnftees, as pr, report totheHoufe of f P ro " of * ock: P".rch.r,n, debt,
Riprefentatives dated 16th December 1796. 907,8i6</64c 51 1 88 7, 44c.
I do hereby certify that the Trustees named in the afts for the reduftion oftlie Public Debt, hjye credit on the books of the several
Stocks at the Treasury of the United States for the sums above stated in tbe several columns ouf,fu .pcr cent. thntcptT cent, and deferred
flock, and the amount thereof being public debt extinguished by their purchases is tv»o millions, three and feveti thousand fix hun
dred and sixty-one dollars and fcventy-ojie cent«, for which the sum of one tnillioq hundned and eighteen thousand nine hundred and
thirty-foe dollars and four Cents in fpecic, .was paid from the public Treafury'from the following funds, Vizy -' ;■
Syrplns duties to the end of the Amount purchased Six per Cent. Tprif per tlenl,'. fyefjfac'djJfccQhinwni of the several
year 1790. 9.5-7,770 J. therewith, 439,01 6J.12c 401,ojiJ. 90c. 631, yS6d.f66c i fp^ c « «^ nck -' *
Loan of 2,000,000. - 353.604.35 3*»73>. 94
Intereftsn stock purchased S: redeemed. 2 26,263 50 Do. - H5.'95 57 779 if#" , {tl'tfo 28
'' 1 , - V ' " -ji jf 1 ' • ■ • ■ ■ - ■■.
1,618,936 04 907,81664
Treasury Department, Regifler's Office, Nov. 21, 1797* JOSEPH NOURSE, Reg.
(b.) ' ;
A particular account of the Sales offix hundred and twentyJhares in the Bank of the United States, being a part offive thoufandJhares fubferibed
to the said Bank by the United States, under the a3 of incorporation, dated the 15th Feb. 1791, and which the Ctmmi/Jioners the Sinking
Fund fold under the authorities contained in the " A3 making proviHtn for the payment of certain debts of the United States, passed the 31jl
May, 4 1796. , • ** -t i.'f, 4 jl-
To'whom fold. Drawers of Notes. Indorfers. Ra c%t. P "
7977
1797. Samuel Sterret Samnel Sterret T. &I. Ketland & George Harrifon June 10 8,160 "1
April 1 Ditto. JDitto ( "Willljigs 3c Francis & George Harrifon j,q 8,j60 | 20 p. cent
Ditto John Leamy J. Crawford & Co. & W. Knox & Co.
Ditto Francis & John Weft N, &I. Frazier & Nefbitt & Co. 13 7,860 |
Ditto Ditto John Donnaldfon & Netbitt & Co. 13 8,169 J Ditto
William Bingham William Cramond Willings & Francis & William Bingham 1214,400. 39 Ditto
Willings & Francis Willings and Francis W. Bingham & Willings & Francis 1269,09® 125 Ditto
Henry Kuhl Henry KuhJ Frederick Kuhl & George Simpfoo 11 4,8(9 10 Ditto
Thomas Willing Thomas Willing William Bingham & George Willing | *,3 7,680 \ 16
Joseph Anthony. Joseph Anthony Rqbert Smith and A. C. Dawes 13 ,380 1 6 Ditto
Ditto Joseph Anthony, jun. Brown & Joyes & J. Anthony & Co. 13 , 2,500 j
David Jackson - David J»«;k6>n H. £s* S. Johufon is" Co. yR. "Smith -14 .SVOOO 10 25 p. cent.
j-5 John Coles William Cragiond L. De Noa'illes and J. C. , 1,712,500 . 25 Ditto
18 John Vatighan John Johrf Miller & Co. & William Bell. ,J7 S«QO9 '0
• —Jahn Steinmetz John Steinmetz JnoSteinttietz & J Ball & A Zantzfoger 17 10,000 20 -
Comfort Sands Comfort Sands H and I Johnson & Co.St IClafon & Coi. r8 - * '
19 John Miller & Co. John Miller, jun.&Co. Robert Smith & Co. and J. C. StOcker -19 J5
->o lohn Vauehau John Vaughan Samuel Sterret, Rofs and Simpfon7
2I J 6 S. Delany and George Latimer $ . 20 . J,CC ° 10
bharles Baring, j«n. Charles Baring, jun. John Athley and Peter Blight 23 10,000 20
22 John Athley John Athley Charles Baring, jun. and P. Blight 23 10,000 20
W. Read and Co. J. W. Franciyl os>o
George Harrifon George Harrifon * Rofs and Simpfon J 10,000 20
T. &J. Ketland \ T. &J. Ketland Simon Walker and J- Ashley 20 10,000 20
Philips,Cramoud & eo. Philips* Cramond & co. 1 John Travis and Wilting and Francis 24. 10,000 20
45 John Donnaldfon . John Donnaldfon Edward|MiHnor & James Crawford 24 1,500 3
Henry Phillips Henry Philips P. Nicklin and Co. and I. Waddington 24 10,000 20
John Travis John-Travis Philips,CramOnd & Co.R.Sftfch and Co. *4 10,000 20
Samuel Ward Samuel Ward . |W. Constable arid J. Shaw 25. aj»9«(D 50 * 7 n' y
26 John Atkinfon John Atkinfon iH . and S. Johnson arid Co. 27 6,500 13 - >
2«IH. &S. Johnson & co. H. &S. johnfon &co. John Atkinfon a? . - J «
1 1 * K—
-187 thares at 480 dollars, 137,760 . Dollars 504,3.60 .
335 ditto at 500 166,500
■ ' ; , '! ,}1
620 304,260 Ex'd. -JOHN GIBSON.
,(C.) *
jiccouni of Sales of Six per Cent. Stock made by the
Bank of Neiv-Tork Jor Account offhe United
States.
j *7 9 7 _ Dollars.
Mar. i. Eighty thousand dollars of fix
per cent, (lock fold this day to
the New-York Infuranct Com
pany at seventeen (hillings and
fixpenee in the pound, one half
payable in cash, the other half
in fixtydays, - ; 70,000
Bank of Neiv-Tork, March I, 1797
CHA. WILKES, Call?.
> * • x ', *
.1A i. ■ At#*'
Statement of Monles ar]ftng fromlftte>e% an Steel JmhsfitNt^tf- the United States, being
the amount dravun hy the Agent te the Trq/faes for ofthe putlu debt, pur~
fuant to (he, a Bof the St/j of May * 1792, and agfeeable to aJiatement made at the Trefi
fnry t Nt 8512,
, March,3l, 1706, ' u"' ..12,12a, 3$ .
_Juue 30, ■ ' -
Sept. 3c. - ■ *» 22,769 12
l>ec. 3«» -,-w, 22,133 94
Eighty nine thou fane! One hundred? fVfty-uro# dollars and fifty-fe*en cubti.
Treasury Depart mint, Reg. Office, Nov. ij, 179,7.
JOSEPH NOURSE,. Reg.
, ,( D . 2 -) I
Sistmcrtt of Monies arising from the payment
(tf Debts njhich originated prior io the pre- I
fei'.t Conjliiution, being the amount dratt/n by
the 'gent to the Trujleq for the redemption
of the public Debt, purfnant t» the aS of
the March 1795, and agreenblt to a.
Jlatement made at the Treasury No. 8512, <
dated "January 4th, 1797» w. |
From Meflrs. Furman and
Hunt for balance of their ac
count in the Quart«r-Malitr '
General's Department 5 94
From Robert TownfenJ Hoe,
for damaged tobacco fold by
the Commiffioncr of Loans in
the State of Virginia oupub- •
lie account 37 44 ]
Fr.om Edward Carrington, 1
late Deputy Quarter-Matter ]
General, receded by him for
public property fold -1,846 85
From ditto, for so much re
ceived by him from the estate
of George Webb, late Receiv
er of Taxes in the State of
Virginia l i 33° 62
From James L«vcll, late
Receiver of Continental taxes
for the State of Mafluchufetts,
being the balance due by him 1,999 79
From Edward Carrftigton,
late Deputy Quarter-Master
General, received by him in
part of a balance'due by Eras
mus Gill aad Company 37J 00
From ditto, received by
him for public property fold 629 34
From Rufu# King, adoiini
ftrator to the estate of John
Alfop, deceased, on acccount
of sundry balances due by said
Alfop and others 2,871 15
From the estate of Thomas
Huggins, deeeafed in part of
a balance found due by,bim at
late Afliftant Comnaiflary of
Purchases in Maryland '* 1,178 25
Ten thousand two hundred i0;274 38
feveuty-four dollars aad
thirty-eight cents.
Treasury ■ Department,
Reg. Office, Nov. 2 \fi,- I 797.
JOSEPH NOURSE, Reg.
PHILADELPHIA DISPENSARY.
Ihesunt of Receipts and. Expenditures for the
lafi yeat.
THE receipts of the iqflitution from Decem
ber 19, 1796, to December 15, 1797, are as fol
low, vi». £. s d.
In annual contributions, - 3>7 <7 7
A life contribution, - - ij io e
Peter Brown's donation, - 5 o,
Dividend of Bank Stock purchased
laA yfar, - - , no •
£•349 '» 7
The expenditures ire a 9 follow, viz.
Houfeexpences and medicine),, no 11 11
Htmfcrent, - 7$ 0 0
Apothecary's faliry, • - In io o
Stationary, - - -542
Bslance due the Treafnrer last year, 14 15 8
Balance remaining ip the Trtafurcr's
hands this year, - - 31 910
__—
£■3*9 7
Accaurt of Patients admitted, &c.l£fc.
The number of Pstients who have betn under
care of the Philadelphia Dispensary from
December 1, 1796, to December I, -.1797,'
is - , - - - 54c
Remaining under care from last year, 35
Admitted fincc last year, - ' 1 5*5
Of whom the hunlher Cured, is 418
Died, - aS
Relieved, 13
Difcbarged Irregular, 14
Removed, 27
Remaining under care, 30
:—a S o
Having thus performed the graleful talk of
rendering our annual statement to the humane
patron* of the Dispensary, we Ihould be defi
eient in our duty to thediflreffed objeils ofjtheir
charity, if we omitted to f»licit a continuance
•f fuppnrt, and to remind the public in general,
that, from the nature of the institution, additi
onal contributions are always neceflfary.
A ftrnfl attention to economy has enabled us
to do much good with small funds, and the ex
pencesof the present year hav» been unusually
moderate j yet we cannot expeJl this will con
tinue to he the cafe ; as the timely and benevo- j
made by the Board of Health for
the indigent sick during the late awful calamity,
has considerably lefl~en«d the number of patients,
as wall as the expences of the Dispensary.
Subfcriptinns and Donations will be thank
fully received, as ufua!, at John Clifford's, the
Tresfurer, No. 39, North Front-street, and at
the Dispensary, in Lodge-Alley.
The annual ele&ion for Managers will be
held at the Dispensary, 011 the Tjri day of Ja
nuary next, between the hours of twelve ahd
one o'clock.
WILLIAM WHITE,
HENRY HILL,
SAMUEL PLEASANTS,
LAWRENCE SECKEL,
HENKY HELMUTH, .
ROrfERT BLACKWELL,
GEORGE MEADE,
■ GEORSE FOX,
ROBERT SMITH, -
JOHN FIELD,
GODFREY HAGA,
SAMUEL P. GRIFFITTS.
December 19, 1797.
Pennfylxariia Population Com
pany.
THE Shareholders arehereby notified, that an
Elf-Aion of Officers for the eofuing year, will be
held at the Company'soffice, no. 53, north fourth
lire, t, 011 Wednesday, the 10th day of January
next, at 1 a o'clock.
By order o the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry.
December 10 eodticthj
Insurance Company "of North
America.
THE Stockholders arc hereby informed, that a
dated meeting of the Company will be held at
thsir office on the niuth day of Jauuary next (be
ing tfcf fecondTuefday in the month) fcr the Elec
tion of twenty-five Directors for the ei>f»ing year.
HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 14., th&mtythj
- By yesterday's Mail,
NEW-YORK, December 19.
DEFEAT OF the DUTCH FLEET.
1 he accounts of this important event,
of which we yesterday had our doubts
(from the circumstance of the iixdifpo
fition the Dutch had for a great length
of time shewn for leaving the Texel),
were yesterday fully confirmed by the
arrival of the Dublin Packet from Li
verpool. . ;
We were favored with an English pa
per containing an Official, and ample
detail of the action, which, from its
length we could only circulate at 3 late
hoar yesterday afternoon, (and that but
partially) in Hand Bills from our office; - :
Those of our fubferibers who may have
been difappcinted, will now be furnifhed
with the contents of our advices, at
The unfortunate ilTue of this bulinefs
to the Dutch navy, seems , in part, to jus
tify the reluctance Admiral Winter had V
shewn to fail, while a profpedt remained
of meeting the English fleet : and it
would appear in confirmation of this o
pinion, that the moment he discovered
capt. Trollope's squadron, {who had been
left by Admiral Duncan on the leok out)
he again returned toward the Texel :—-
he was to leeward of it, with this inten
tion when he was intercepted by the
timely arrival of the English Admiral.
It appears, it is true, that the Dutch
seamen behaved with great braviery ; al* "
though the contest has not been so obsti
nately maintained as in their .former en
counter with theßritifh<Nuvy. Meeting
an enemy of equalfkill and bravery, they •'
had the further disadvantage of opposing
men inured, and disciplined by a long
and arduous ferviee.
The eonlequences of this victory to
the British nation are perhaps as accu
rately calculated in the following re
marks by a London Editor as any that
might be offered on the subject.
This glorious vidtory may be considered
as incalculable in its beneficial efftfts : It
will appal the Dutch, and excite [or per
haps we might fay increafej their difaffe&i- ......
' on to a system of government which fcai-- ..
ruined the political and commercial confe
queftrtbf "the Republic :• It will spare us
the expence of keeping a large naval force
in the North Seas for the prot eft ton ©F our
trade :• It frees us from any apprebenfiOa ol
invasion on these kingdoms during the, en fil
ing Winter f it hasincreafed the force ofour
ancient bulwark, the navy ; and the tgft in*
mention, not the lead in importance* it Has*
enabled our gallant tars, the .faviotrrs of-their i
country, to redeenJ their charaders frofn.. 4
the disgrace which was temporarily attach- ,{'
ed to it'from the iafurreftions at- the Nore».
and tends to add a new lustre to the nan*
of British feamco,. which a moment of err«jv _
had covered with Ibarae. While with great
sincerity we offer a homage to Admiral Dun
can and his men, we recal to mind with ex
ultation the brilliant vidorie* of lords Howe'
Hood, Bridport, St. Vincent, and the im
portant, tho' less splendid |yccefs of Lord
Keilh, firming together a grand aggregate
indeed of* British glory. It may truly be
said, that whatever may have been the tflif- ,
carriage of our armies, or those of our al
lies by land, there never, wasaperiodin which
our navy was f« universally triumphant, as
during the pfefent war. Every battle has
been a viftory, and if we have not had m»re
victories, it is because we osuld not, even
by the mod cutting provocations, draw the
enemyoftenerout ofportto rneafure strength
with us.
The French Republic has received a fatal*
wound, from the blow which has struck so
deeply in the mofl tender part of her ally.
She relied en the co-operation of the Dutch
fleet, in repairing the lodes which her own
marine had fufFered, and to make an attempt
on some part of the three kingdoms. Ev»
ery hope of that nature has entirely van idl
ed. The French fleet at Brest, consisting of
20 fail of the line, is unprovided with sea
men ; the Spanish fleet is fhamefully bloc
ked lip in the port of Cadiz ; and the navy
of Holland will probably he foynd only in
ur harbours. England may therefore, now,
with more propriety than at any former pe
riod, be called the mistress of the sea.
There arc several letters received in
this city, from the Weft-Indies, which
agree in stating that posts ive orders have
been received at Guadalqupe, from the:
4 French Directory, for the indifcriminatg *
capture of all American veflcls."
The acc<iunts on this fobject are of
fo contradictory that we know not
" what decree of credit to attach to this lift
. intelligence. .
LONDON, Oftober 16.
jldmira'ty-CffiV, 03. 16, 1797* "
Captain Fairfax, of the Venerable, ar
rived early this morning with dispatches
from AdamDuncab,efq admiral of the Blue,"
ccmmander in chief of his Majesty's fliips,
&c. employed in the North Sea, to Evan
Nepean.efq. Secretary of the admiralty, »f
which the following are copies.
Venerable, at fca, 13th 061. 1797,
off the coast of Holland.
SIR,
BE pleased to acquaint the lords commis
sioners of the admiralty, that judging it of
■ conference their lordships fltould have as
early information as pofiible of the defeat of
.the Dutch fleet under the-command of ad-miral de I djlpatcbed the R;>fe
rotter at thrje P. M. on thei2;h (nth)
iml. with a short letter to you immediately 1
after,the a&ion was ended.
I have now further to acquiint you, for I
their lordships information, that in the,night
oftiie tothind. after I had sent away my J
letter to you of that date, I placed my
squadron in such a situation as to prevent
the enemy from returning to the Texel with- li
out my falling in with them.
At nine o'clock in the morning of the 1'
l ith I got fight of capt. Trollope's squad
ron, with signals flying for an enemy to £
leewarJj I immediately bore up, and made I
the signal for a general chace, and soon got x
fight of them, forming in a line on the lar- J
board tack to receive us, th* wind at N.
W. As we approached near, I made the
signal for the squadron to (horten fail, in J
order ts conned them ; soon after I £aw (
the land between Camperdown and Egmont,
about 9 miles to leeward of the enemy, and '
finding there was no time to be loft in mak- 1
ing the attack, I made the signal to bear
tip, break the ehemy's line, and engage '
them to leeward, each (hip her opponent '
t>y whtch I got between them and the land J
whither they were faft approaching. My 1
figtoals Were obeyed with great promptitude, 1
and Vice-admiral Onflow, in the Monarch, ■
bore down on the enemy's rear in the aioft
gallant manner, his divilion following his '
example, and the aftion commenced about '
forty minutes pad 12- o'clock.
Th'e Venerable soon got through the en- j '
emy's line, and I began a close adtion.with ! .
my division ort their van, which laded near |
two hours and a half, when I observed all i
the mails of the Dutch admiral's ship to go
by the board ; flit was, however, defended
for some time in a mod gallant manner—
but being over-prefied by numbers her co
lours were (truck, and admiral de Winter
was'foon brought on board the Venerable.
On looking arqund me, I observed the (hip
bearing the Vice-admiral's flag was also dif
tnafted, and had surrendered to Vice rdmi
ral Ouflorw ; and that many others hadlike
wife ft ruck. Finding we were in 9 fath
oms water, and not farther than five miles
from the land, my attention was so mueh
taken up in getting theheads of the disabled
(hips off (hore, that I was not abli to dis
tinguish the number of (hips captured ; and
the wind having been constantly on the
land (ince, we have unavoidably been much
dispersed, so that I have not been ablt to
gain an ex aft account of them, but wehave
taken pofleffion of 8 or 9 ; more of them had
(truck, bu't taking advantage of the night,
and being so near their own coast, they suc
ceeded in getting off, and some of them
■were leen going into the Texel next morn
ing r
It is with the greatest pleasure and fatis
faftion I make known to their lordships the
very gallant behaviour of Vice Admiral On
flow, the Captains, officers, seamen and ma
rines of the squadron, who all appeared act
uated vfith a truly Briti(h spirit, at least
those • aat' I bad an opportunity of feeing,
One of the enemy's ships caught fire in the
pfihn", and drive very near the Venerable ;
tut- Have the ileafure to J, 'ay it <was extin
guifked, end Jhe it one of thtfhipe in our pof-.
fejfton. The fqtiadron has fnffered much in
their y»ifts, yards and rigging, and many sf
them has loft a number of men, however, in no
f tV that of the enemy.
Ihe carnage on hoard the two Jhipt that
lore the AdmraVt flags hat been beyond all
dcfcript'wn ; they have had no left than 250
men killed and wounded on hoard of each ship ;
and hert /' have to lament the hfs of capt.
Btirgeft, of his Majefly't JJjip the Ardent,<who
brought that ship into a3'ton,in the mofl gallant
and miflerly manner, but <was unfortunately
killedfton after. However, the /hip continued
the aSion tlofe, till quite disabled. The public
have lofl a good and gallant officer in capt.
Btirgeft, and I, with others, afmcere friend.
Capt.Trollope's exertion and'aftive good
conduft in keeping fight of the enemy's
fleet until I cam* up, have heed truly meri
torious, and, I trust, will meet ajuft reward.
I fend this by captain Fairfax, by whose
able advice I profited much during the arc
tion, and who will give their lordships any
further particulars they may wish to know.
As mod of the ships of the squadron are
disabled, and feyeral of the prizes difmaded,
I (hall make the best. of my way with them
10 the Nora.
I herewith transmit you a lid of killed
and wounded on board such of the squa
dron as I have beet) able to coileft ; a lift
of the enemy's fleet opposed to my fquad
ton, and my line of battle on the day of
aftion. lam, Sir,
Your mod. obedient humble Servant,
ADAM DUNCAN.
Alid of killed and wounded on boardthe ships
of AdraUal Duncan's squadron in an ac
tion with the Dutch fleet o« the nth of
Oftober, x 7 9'7 •
Venerable— 13 seamen, a marines, kill
ed 5 6 officers, 52 feanien,4 marines,wound
ed. Total 77.
Mo»a»ch 2 officers, 34 seamen, killed ;
9 officers, 79 seamen, "12 marines, wounded.
Total 136.
Bedford—2 raidlhipmen, 26 seamen, 2
marines, killed : I lieutenant, 37 seamen,
3 marines, wounded. Total 71.
Powerful.—-8 seamen, 2 marines, knled ;
4 officers, 74 seamen and marines, wound
ctl. Total f>B.
, Ms.—l fearnan, 1 marine, killed ; 2 of
ficers, 18 seamen, wounded. Total 23.
Ardent. —2 officers, 35 seamen, 6 ma
rines, killed j 8 officers, 85 seamen, 11 ma
rines, 3 boys, wounded. Total 150.
Agmcourt—None killed or wounded-
Belliqueux—2 officers, 20 seamen, 3 A®*"
rines, killed ; 3 officers, 63 seamen, IJ
marines, wounded. Total 103.
Lancaster— —3 seamen killed ( 2 officers,
j 3 seamen, 3 marines, wounded. Total 21.
Triumph—2s seamen, 3 marines, 1 bov,
killed ; 5 officers, 50 seamen and marines,
wounded* Total 84. ,
OFFICERS KILLED.*
Monarch—Mr. J. P. Tindall and Mr.
Fintey, midlhipmen.
Ardent —Captain Burgefoj Mr. Michael
Duun, mailer.
Bslliqueux—Lieut. Robert Webster, Mr.
James Milne, maker's mate.
OFFICERS WOUNDED.
Venerable—Lieutenants Clay and Doug
las, Lieutrfnaut Chambers of the marines,
Mr. Stewjrt, midlhipman, Mr. Brown, pi- <
lot. ' : 1
Moiiareh—Lieutenantßetalik, lieutenant :
Smith of ihe marines, Mr. George Maffie,
Mr. Benjamin Clement, Mr. Daniel Sher
vvin, Mr. Charles Slade midshipman, Mr. •
John Chimley, master's mate. <
Bedford—Lieutant Keenor. i
Powerful—Lieut. Jennings, Mr. Mel. ■
Jones, boatswain, Mr. Daniel Rogers, mid- '
(hipman, lieutenant Walker of the marines. '
Ilis—Lieutenant Charles Rea of the ma
rines, Mr. Simon Frafer and Mr. John Wal
ker, raidlhipmen.
Ardent—Lieutenant James Rose, lieute- '
nant John Sobriel, Captain Cuthbert of
marines, Mr. John -Tracy, master's mate,
Mr. John Airey, master's mate, Mr. Tho- <
mas Leopard midlhipman, Mr. John Tay- 1
lor, captain's clerk, (lightly, Mr. George <
Killiar, midlhipman, (lightly. 1
Belliqueux—Lieutenant Robert England y 1
(lightly, captain Jame# Caffiel of marines,
(lightly, Mr. James Scott, midfhipniau.
Lincafter.—Lieut. Morgan, Lieut. Sandys, !
of the Marines
Triumph-.—Capt. Effingto n, flichtly in the
arm ; Mr. Chapnun,|Fir(l Lieut, (lightly in the ,
head j Mr. Trollope, Third Lieut, (lightly in
, the foot ; Mr. Read, MalW, (lightly fruited ;
Mr. Jones, Midlhipman, fliphlly in the face.
ADAM DUNCAN.
Lift and disposition of the Dutch Fleet, on the
I ith of October, 1757:
VAN.
Vice-admiral Reyntjes, Commander.
Cerberus, captain Jacobfop, 68 gums, 450'
men. »
Delft, Capt. Verdoorn, 56 gum, 375 men
—Taken.
Jupiter, Vice-admiral Reyntjes and R«ar
admiral Meufos, 74 gun*, sjome
Alkmaer, Capt. Kraft, 56 guns, 3*o men-
Taken.
Haarlem, Capt. Wigger, 63 gwil, 4JO men
—Taken.
Munnikkendam, Capt. Lancaster, 44 guns,
men—Taken-
Hcldin, Capt. Dumifuilde L'Eeftrille, 31
guns, 130 men.
Daphne brig, Lieutenant Fredericks, it
gnns, 98 men.
CENTRE.
Admiral de Winter, commander in thief.
Waflenaer, Capt. Hoiinnd, 64 guns, 450
men —Taken.
Batavier, Capt. Senters, 56 gain, 340 men.
Vryheid (the Liberty) Admiral De Winter
Van Roflem, 74 gunt, 550 mea—Taken.
States General, Rear-admiral Story, 74 guns,
550 men.
Leyden, Capt. Mufquieter, 68 guns, 450
men.
Mars, Capt. KolS - , 44 guns. 300 men.
Capt. —, »4 g un, »
150 men.
Minerva, Capt. Bilbracht, is gun*, 150 men.
Galatea brig, Lieut. Rivety, it guns, 98
men.
/ftalmta brie, Lieut. P!«U, it-guns, 98 men.
REAR.
Reartadmiral Bloys, commander.
Admiral Qevries, Capt' Zegers, 68 guns,
450 men—Taken-
Hercules, Capt. Van Ryfoort, 64 guns, 4*o
men—Taken. , ...»
Brutus, Rear-admiral Bloys, 74 guns, jjo
men.
Befchermer, Capt. Hinxtt, 56 guns, 35®
men.
"Ge'ykheid (the fquality) Capt.Ruyfen, 68
guns, 410 mea —Taken.
Ambuscade, Capt. Lieut. Hays, 31 guns, 170
men—Take*.
Ajax brig, Lieut. Arkenbout, 18 guns, 98
men.
' Haasje (Aviso) Lieut. Hartenfeld, & guns,
35 men. ADAM DUNCA'*.
N- B. Another line of battla (hip, reported
to he taken, name unknown.
Disposition ©f the squadron, in the order of Vaf
tie, on the Jlth of Oclobe, '97. ~
Larboard, or Lce-Divifion,
Richard Onflow, esq. Vice-admiral of the Red,.
Commander,
t. RulTell, Henry I'rollbpe, captain, 74 guns,
590 men.
а. DircAor, Wm. Bligh, captain, 64 guns, 491
men,
3. Montagu, John Knight, captain, 74 guns,
• 590 men. '
, 4. Veteran, George Gregory, captain, 64 guns,
491 men. ■ , •
' 5, Monarch, vice-admiral Onflow, Edward •-
' Srven. captain, 74 guns, 599 men.
б. Powerful, William O'Bryin Drury, captain,
74 guns, s9O men. ,
' 7. Monmouih, James Walker, captain, 64 guns,
491 .men.
t 8- Aginconrt, John Williamfon, captain, 04
. guns, 491 men.
r Repeaters.
Beaulieu frigate—Cutter! Rose, King George,
AiSive, Diligent—SpsculatorLugger.
Starboard, or Weather Division.
Adam Dancan, cfq. Admiral of tke Blue, and
Commander in Chi«f, &c.
9. Triumph, William Henry Ellington, captain,
74 guns, 640 men.
10. Venerable, admiral Duncan, Wm. George
f Fairfax, captain, 74 guns, 533 men.
It. Ardent, Richard R. Burgefi, captain, 64
_ guns, 490 men.
I». Bedford, Sir Thomas Bayatd, captain, 74
guns, s9° men. . ,
,3. Lancaster, J«hn Wells, captain, 64 guns,
; 491 m'n: <
14. Belliqueux, John iDglis, captain, 64 guns,
491 men.
ij. Adamant, William Hotham, captain, 50
gun«, 343 men.
» 16. ICs, Wm. Mitchell,cap".. 50 guns, 343 men
Repeaters.
Circe, frigate—Martin, (loop.
ADAM DUNCAN.
. Venerable, off Orfordnef«, Oft. is> '797'
3i r ,
In addition to my letter of the 13th ind.
. containing the particulars of the a&ion of
the nth, and which I have not been able
to f«nd away until this day, 1 have to ac
quaint you, (or the information of the lords
Commissioners of the admiralty, that, from
the wind continuing to blow on the Dutch
coast, the (hips have had great difficulty in
keeping off the (hore, and that we have un
avoidably been separated. On Friday lad
\ the wind blew strong from the W. S. W. to
the W. N. W. and continued to do so until
Saturday morning; it then fliifted to the '
North, when I made a (ignal to w'ear, stood '
to the welbvard, and fortunately anchored '
here last evening, the Venerable being so >
leaky, that wish all her pumps going we I <
eould*but ju£l keep her Tree. This morii- v
ing I observed the ibips named ia the margin ,
* at anchor near ui, 3 near the Kentifli
Knock, and 3 near Hofley Ely; ' (
wind ia at N. W. and miich agaiiiit the dif- ' <
abled (hips: I have therefore lent the Lan
caster and Beaulieu out to reader them as- j
(iftance. • j ,
Sir Thomas Williams, in the Endymion,
\vho joined me the day after the aition, I j
also sent in (hore, to keep by and affi't the ! '
disabled ships; and lam also informed that,
in the cotirle of the night he fell in with a
Dutch (hip of the line off thfc Texel, and had
engaged her, and I have.not beard the par
ticular*, f ■,
lam, SIR, ' 1
Your most obedient servant, <
Evan Nepean, Esq. ADAM DUNCAN. (
* Monarch, Powerful, Lancaster, Beatriieu. 1
October 15.
Yesterday, in honour of Admiral Dun- (
can's vidtory, the vessels in She river exhib- (
ited their gallant ftrcamers ; the bells of the (
different churches in and about London rang J
merrily through the day ; and late at night 1
molt of the pnneipal flreets were flluminat- 1
ed ; but it is thought, that when the offici- 1
al details are received, the illufninations will j
be general througboutthe principal towns of j
the kingdom.
Paris papers were yesterday received to
the 12th instant. There appear to be no |
official advices of hostilities having re-com
menced in Italy; but we much fear that by j
this time the horrid scene of blood is renew- ]
ed. The army of Buonaparte, from the )
statements in the official journal, is in the j
most perfect ftattf of preparation. The Au- .
ftrians on their fide, have spared no pains 1
to reiuforce their armies. Whenever the 1
campaign (hall open, therefore, the result
must be distressing to every friend of bunian- ,
ity. A curious paper has appeared in the
R cdafteur of the 6th inft. purporting to be
Utter written by lord Malmefbufy to a no
ble lord in England, and left behind "kfm at
Lisle, previous to his departure from]that ci
ty on the rupture of the negotiation, * The
letter is evidently fuppolitions, merely cal
culated to burlefqne the talents of his lord
ship as a negociator, and the progress of
the negociation which he condu&cd. We
can only look on it as an impotent attempt
to retaliate on hi* lordship for the able and
pointed manner in which, on a former 1 oc
casion he eXposed and ridiculed the empty
verbage of Charles de la Croix.
The minister it is said means to jive the
ftarap distributors in the country a regular
salary instead of 5 per cent.on what they dis
tribute: from the recent increife of (lamp du
ties, a very considerable fa < ing to the coun
try is to result from this measure.
It is a remarkable infUnee in the hiftbry of
admiral Duncan, that he has lived hifafclf to
illustrate the truth of a dorftrine which he wai
the ftrft to patronize, and to Recommend lo the
Britiflt navy. The great principle of this fyf
tera is to break the liac of the enemy,' and-ito this
lyfttm we are indebted for our most glorious
'Vi£tor?«s, frura that of the lath of April to the
Pfcfol , : Jr *
The Winifred, ——, from Antigua, and
the Peace, - ,i, from Surinam, for Ameri
ca, have been captured by a privateer. ,
T Odtober 16. :
This morning, a little after
captain Fairfax, of his majesty's (hip, Ven
erable, arrived at the admiral ty office with
the officials of the victory gained by admi
ral Duncan over the fleet of Holland.
The two fleets were equal in numbers,
each having 16 two-decked (hips.—Admi
ral Winter came out expressly for the pur
pose of fighting the English, by order of
the Convention. They talked of having
him tried by a court-martial if he did not
fail.
The Dutch Vice-Admiral' did not stand
the fire of the Venerable above ten minutes,
but, dropping her forefajl, (hot ahead. The
Venerable then ranged up to admiral Win
ter's (hip, when a very warmly contested
action took place which lasted above two
hours, when the Dutch were obliged to
yield to the superiority of British (kill and
courage.
At the conclusion of the aftion, the Bri
ti(h fleet found fa the ;pd(Teffion
of nine Jhips of the Line and twb frigates—
a Dutch brig and Schooner were funk in the
aft ion. ,
The following are the names and force of
the Dutsh (hips captured ;
Vryheid 74 Admiral De Winter
Jupiter 74 Vice-admiral Reyntjes.
Haerlcm 68
Admiral Devries 68
Gclyheid 68
Waflenaar 64
Hercules 64
Delft 56
Alcmaer , j6
Munickendam 44
Ambuscade 33
Another line of battle (hip is reported to
' be taken, name unknown.
The quarter-deck of the Dutch admiral's
' (hip was completely cleared of every man,
the admiral himfclf excepted. He escaped
without a wound. The day xfter the ac
tion the remnant of the Dutch fleet gained
the Texel, the wind having favored them
by coming round to the Weft ward. Ad
miral Winter himfelf was tflken, a* was the
Vice-Admiral's (hip, on .board 'j>{ which
were two Admirals.
Admiral Duncan yesterday anchored with
* some of his ships and prizes off Orfordnefs,
and they were sxpefted to Holfefly bay last
night. Several of his (hips are not yet ar
rived, from having the Dutch prizes to tow
home.
The killed and wounded on beard the
British fleet, as far as it has been afcertaiu
ed, is—killed 173 —wounded 504.
HULL, oa»t>er 9.
Thursday about one o'clock an express reached
Sunderland, dated Hartlepool OA. 5, ton o'clock
' a m, givirgan account of a F .'SBch frigate an J two
! fmailer of war, Were at tVat men. .;t r tr ■
[ that port, only four or ffve rn.ies A fiih
ing boat had come in ami given i'lfornntion, that
a Lynn brig had Baltic fleet,un.fer convoy '
of the Wright»arro -J (ffip„ti«dir the gum o. oC'ir-, I
( bro' cafl'c the f ! ay beis're, anuthn: thefr 3 veff-t" ,
wer£ urobably the fame that .'. err, f.-enr ff Scarbro*. j
Several guns wcre'h'ardatfca from Tyneniouth,
Sunderland, ftc. on Thuifiiay, most of the day, '
so that we hope ofne of oar c'ruifers have faltn in ■
with the enemy.
By accounts from Dur.liirJt nf the lid ult. the
Repub licainc frigate, of 36 guns, was ready for 1
tea, and would fail in a few days, being manned
with joo seamen.
EDINBURGH, Oftober 7.
The fcillpwing letter was this morning re
ceived by the right hon. thelord Provost.
N. Shields, OS. 6, '97.
My Lord, 1
For theinformation of the commander of |
any of his Majesty's ships with you, and the 1
merchants of your place, we think it eur 1
duty to acquaint you, that we just now re- 1
ceived information, by a veflel arriving this ;
morning, that (he last evening pafled a large 1
French frigate off the Tees, who had in her
company 4 ors merchant (hips which (he had 1
captured ; and we Sre sorry to add one ef 1
our armed (hips, which we suppose to be the
Sally, capt. Wolfe, as (he was cruizing off
bere, and a heavy cannonade was diftinftly
heard at Sunderland, from 6 to 10 o'clock
yesterday morning, so that we have too much
reason to fear the account trilf. The fri
gate is described as a very large one, said
to mount 36 guns atleaft.
As there is every reason to suppose her
(lay will be short on this coast, and that
Bergen is most likely to be her rendezvous
for the prizes, we trust, if there are any of
his Majesty's (hips in the Frith, there may
be a ?reat probability of intercepting them ;
it isT>ut too likely they will use the Sally
as a decoy to our merchant (hips, of which
they (hould be particularly on their guard :
(lie is a plain bark,black (ides, and her bow
sprit lying very flat, with royal pole top
gallant malts, and pole mizen top-malt, and
is a straight (heered (hip, with bulwarks.—
We remain, in great naft«,
Your Lordfliip's, &c,
Wm. CLARK and SON.
%f)t dSasette*
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER »i.
Sitteb of the kufnefs in tbi House of Reprefenta
ttves of the U. S. yejleri—(Particulars to*
morrow.)
The fubjeift of Licences was further difcufled.
The bill for the relief of North and Vefty, wis
ordered for a third reading this,day. The bill
in favor of the heirs of Captain G. Hurlbut was
referred to a Committee of the whole. The
Committee of Claims were direifled to report
whether'any alterations were neceflary in the
lsws refpefhng invalid pensioners. The bill for
suspending the second fe&ion of the afl regula
ting foreign Cohi, was ordered to be engrofTed
for a third reading—Yeas <> ; Nays aj.—A
report on the memorial from TennefTee, was
brought in by Mr. Pinckney, and committed for
Monday next. The report on the petition of
Comfort Sands, was referred to a Committee of
the whole on Friday next. Adjourned.
Communicated for Pullieatitn.
Thebrave cspt. Buroiss, who was killed in the
late engagement With the Dutch fleet, was connec
ted with some worthy families in this city, and
well knowD to many of its most refpe&ablt inha
bitants, to whom he had recommended himfjlf, by
the dignity ef bismiod, and theamiablcnefs of his
disposition
tVhile tears of sympathy flow freely for this af
fl i(3iag calamity, which has deprived his relatives
of a son and a brother, and the nation of one of
its most difttnguifhed officers, let canfolation be
drawn from this reflection— as his Use was emi
nently irreproachable, his death, in such a eaufe,
was enviably glorious : He expired, as it were,
the arms of victory, having borne his psrt, nobly,
in a conflict, the issue of which, has raised the naval
character of England, even beyond its former
greatness- ,
The Foreign Details, publilhed in this day's
Gazette, were iflued to our Head ers, last even
ing, in a Supplement. It is neceflary'to re-pub
li(h them for the benefit of our Country Sub
scriber*.
GAZETTE MAR INE LIST.
Norfolk, Dec. 11.
Yesterday arrived here the (hip Iris, cap
tain Keckwick, 43 days from St. Übes.
On the 27th Nov. in lat. 33, 59. long. 63,
spoke the brig Cornelia, captain Warner,
fjrom Cape de Verds to Rhode Iflaud.
■ When capt. Keckwick left St. Übfs, fe
reral of Lord St. Vincent's fleet were re
pairing at Lifben; the British troops held
pofleffion of Fort Julian; and Lord St.
Vincent's fleet continued the blockade of
Cadiz.
Same day arrived here the brig William
Pennock, captain Hurit, 59 days from Ja
maica. On. the 30th of Nov. in lat, 33,
40, loag. 75, 30, fell in with the (hip Sal
ly, captain Rand, from Liverpool, dismas
ted, then out 75 days. Had loft two men
pverSitwd; the (hip very leaky, and the
, cargo greatly damaged: he intended for
the firft port he could make, Capt. Hurst,
, supplied him with a barrel of bread.
Charlejlon, D«. 4.
ARRIVED. DAYS.
I Ship Beniftoff, Efkildfon, Amsterdam, 70
Greenlaw, Bell, Savannah, 7
.Sch. Nymph, Cortlett, Port-au-Paix, 14
Sloop New-York Packet, Shaw, Havan
nah, 9
' Ship Hannah and Eliza, Emery, Boston, 16
Brig Endeavor, Manchester, Martinico, 24
Sch. Friend(hip, Rofs, Savannah* I
1 Sloop Juno, Hoyt, New-York, 17
The Uanifh ship Endraeht, Captaia Ehricks,
' from St. Petcrfb rgh, Kuffia, was off the bar
' last evening—Pilot on board.
The brig Olive, Studley, of and from Boston,
arrived at Martinico the id ult.
Tile Swift, from Philadelphia, and
brig Jofep'h, from Norfolk, had also arrived
there.
Shi? Powhatan Stranded.
On Saturday morning, about 4 o'clock,
the (hip Powhitar, Capt. Shaw 70 days
* " '"^-A
from Liverpool for thL port, wa3 (Iranded
on tbe south breaker off the bar. s
i lie Po«!iafan, abo'U 3, vveelga before,
had carried away her mammal* fprting
herforemaft, and getting ialo founding's at
night, with/tbe wind at N. E. had
fail fufficient to wrok her off, 'nntil day-,
light, and was drifted on (hore by the tid<!
Shortly after Unking she bilged and filled
and when the captain and crew were taken
ftom h<er, b.y Capt. M'lhenny in bia pilot
boat, she had 4. feet water in her.cabbin.
She had a very valuable cargo, ori boatd
confiding of dry goods and fait, which i»
supposed to have been
sterling; and fortunately for bur fity, it
was inrtircd in England.!
Four or five fchoonera, {loops and boats
have gone down ta save such part of the car
go as may be poflible, and it is cxpedted
that thc-greater part of the goods will be
recovered, (though damaged), if the vyea
ther con inues as moderate as it has be;n,
as they were (lowed between decks and in
she after hold,' , •
Mr. M' Ilheuny's pilot, boat, rnd a „
boat of •Mr. Chambers, yesterday brought/
up valuable freights saved from the wreck.
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
, DECEMBER 22,
Will he pref;nte«l a favorite COMEDY, called
EVERY ONE HAS HIS FAULT.
Lard Norland, Mr. War-en—Sir Robert Ram
ble, (with the Epilogue) Mr. Bernard—Mr. 'o
lui, Mr. Morris—Mr. Harmony, Mr. Harwoad—
Captain Irwin, Mr, Cooper—Mr. Placid, Mr.
Moreton—Hammond, Mr. Warrell, jiln.—Porter,
Mr. Warrell; —Edward, Mis» Hardinge (being her
fit ft appearance on this stage.)
Lady Eleanor Irwin, (for that right only) Mrs.
Hardinge, (being her firlt appearance on thin stage)
—Mrs. Placid, Mrs. Oldmixon—Mift Spiniler,
Mrs. L'Eftrange—Mifs Woburn, Mrs. M. riis.
To which will be added, a Comedy in tiAi, called
THREE WEEKS AF I IR MARRIAGE
Or, IVbat <uie muff all come to.
Sir Charles Racket, Mr. Moreton—Deueget, Mr.
Warren—Woodley, Mr. Fox—Servant, Mr. T.
Warrell.
Lady Racket, Mri. Hardinge—Mrs. Drugget,
Mrs. L'Eftrange—Nancy, Miss L'Eftrange—Di
mity, Mrs. Francis.
On Saturday, Tbt Mountain/m, —Oflavian, (firft
time on this stage) by Mr. Tatlo*, from the The
atre, Boflon :—with Entertainments.
*.* Oa account of Monday being Chriflmaa
day, there will be a performance on TucfJay—
particulars in future bills.
Box, one Dollar j Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery, halT a Dollar.
£5" The doors of the Theatre will open at five,
and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clock.
Places lor the Boxes to be taken at the Office in
the frout «f tbe Theatre, from 10 till 1 o'clock,
and from 10 till 4on the days of performance.
Tickets to be had at H. and Rica's bpok-ftere,
No. jo Markct-ftreet, and at the Office adjoinihg
theTheare. VIVAT XSS PUBLIC A !
A House in Burlington for Sal£
THE fubferiber has a large, convenient two
ftory brick House, with Stables,
house, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wishes to
f St Ll. For terms apply at No. 5, South Fourth
f ftrctt, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who hat also for Sale,
Lots in Washington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
e harbour.
" December it.
- Mrs. G RATTAN, '
y T~) ESPECTFULLY informs the Indies and Gen
* J v tlemen of the city, that h-r firft CONCERT
•f Vocal Mafic will be tbis Evknims, the tift
of Desember, inft. at Mr. Richarskt's.
* ACT 1.
Qnsrtette, Pleyel
e Seng—Angels ever bright, Nandol
Glee—Messrs. Carr, Darley, jun. and Hill,
The Mariners
Song—Mr. Carr
r ! Duett—Ms». Grattan and Mr. Carr, Pa.Teilta
Song—Mr, Darley, jua,
;r Scotch Glee—Mrs. Grattan, MelTrs.Carr, Darley
Hill. ACT. 11. .
's ConcertoPiaflo Forte, {by a young lady) Viotti
n Song—Mrs. Grattan, Sacchmi
)- Glee—Meflis Carr, Darley and Hill, Jackiba
>- Duett—Mrs. Giatian and Mr. Carr, Time
[has not thiu'd
Song—Mr. Darley, jun.
Qu jfct'e—Mrs. Grattan, Messrs. Car r , Darl-Y
a* Hill.
slidollarseach fubferiber for one ticket of ad
mittance during thefeafon.
I- No fubfefibors ticket transferable, but any fui*
s. fcriber on paying his fubfeription, will have a right
to demand tickets for the unmarried ,rt ot his fa
' mify, wiich ticket will admit them every night
r » during the fcafon, but are not transferable.
The Concert to D£gin at half past fix and the ultfj
fie to attend for the Ball at eight, the expence of
which Mrs. Grattan engages to discharge. ,
Subscriptions received and ticket* delivered by
'• Mrs. Grattan't clerk, at No. 192, High-street,-
Non-subscribers tickets to be had the day of the
Concert at the Bar at Mr. Richardet's.
n 5pT Mrs: Grattan finding that the plan nfher
j_ Concert is mifconcciv'd, refpeiifully informs the
public that if it the fame as the City AfTembly
|» December 15
1 CLKKKS HIP,
;n A YOUNG MAN, who esuld bring indifpu
•ii-table recommendations, is defiroustole em
le ployed ill the capacity of copying Clerk, at a publis
>r office—He would engage on moderate terms.
1, For further particulars enquire at the office of tha
Gazette. § Dec 1a
FOK SstLß,
By JOHN MILLER, JUN . Cjf Co.
S. No. 8, Chelnut-ftreet,
0 ' One hundred and, eighty bales
7 ' BENGAL GOODS,
4 Amongst which are,
Gurrjhs Mamoodies
g Baftrt Sannas
2 Gwaenahs Tanda CoiTaoe
Guzaits Emertics
4 Blue Cloths Calicoes
1 Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
1 Amongst them are a great proportion of the*
t manufaiftures of ■Patna.
December 1. 5
n All Persons
Having any demands aga'nft the Eflatedf tht
id ' 4t . e George Irwin, are requested to
, ( i bring in their accounts pi operly attested, on or
before the firft day of {January next ensuing
and those who are indebted to said eltate are lb
licited to make immediate payment to
c ' SaRAH rRWIN, AdmiDjftratrix. 1
rt' nan. «9 i79> fPROPOSALS
FOR
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Port: RoaJs will b? re
ceived at the General l'oft Office until
the 30th day of January next inciulive.
PE ?f.NSYL VA NIA, SrV.
1. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, NesvcAf
tle, Canrwell's bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Fred
e-ica, ■ Mi!ford, Cloughs, Dagfbortiugh, Trap,
Suowhill, Horntown and Accoinac court house to
Northampton court house three times a week.
Apvil xto Moi>/rmber I j;. Leave Phttadelphia ev
ery Tuesday, Thutfduy and Saturday at 2 a M,and
arrrive at Northampton court house on Thufday,
Suurdpy and Monday at Fm. Returning. Leave
Nor thampton court lu.ufe every Fiilay, Monday,
ana Wednesday at a a m, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 i-a
P,M.
November t.f to April i. LeaVe Philadelphia ev
ery fuefd-y, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a m,
and arrive l at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7 pm. Returning—
v Leave Northampton court, house every Saturday,
Tuesday ami Thursday at 6 a m, and ariive at
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by 7 pm,
VIRGINIA.
2. From Northampton Court house to Norfolk
three times a \vtek.
April 1 to November 15. I.eave Northampton
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 pm, and arrive at Norfolk in 24hour9.
Returning—Leave Norfolk every Wednefdaf t Ffi
dayand Monday a 4 a m, and arrive at Mortlump
ton court house in twenty four hours.
Ncventlcr i; to April I, Leave Northampton
court house everyTuefday, Tharfday and Saturday
at 3a u, and arrive at Norfolk in 44 heurs. Rc
turnwg —Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wedscf- 1
day and Friday by 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
tou court house in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA & MARYLAND. \
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New
port,Chriftiana.Middletown,Warwick andGocrge
tov.'Ti cross roads to Chrrterftown three timcsa week.
May Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every
Sunday, Tuefd-.y and Thursday by 9 i> m, andar-
Tive at eheftertovvn the next days by 8p m. Re
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed
nesday aud Friday by 9 p m, and arrive at Phila
delphia the next days !>y 8 p m.
Ncvtmber I to J\lay I. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arjiva at
Cheftertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 r m.
Kiturning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday and
Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 t m.
MARYLAND.
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton,
Newmarket, Vienna, Salilbury, 3nowhill andPrin
cefs Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednes
day at 7 am, arrive at Eafton by 4p m. Leave
Eafton on Thursday by 6 A M, arrive at Soowhill
on Friday by I p. m, and at Princels Aun by 6 r.
M. —Leav* Princes* Ann cnSaturday by
io a m, arrive at Eafton the next day or Monday
by 6p m Leave Eaficp on Tuilday by 5 a M,and
jirrivt at Cheftertown fame day by 4 p m.
5. Fro.n Harford by Bel-Air to the Black herfe
ones a week.
Leave Harford ezery Tut Day by 10 A m, and
arrive tit Black korie by 6.r x. Returning—he,ave.
Blackhorfe cn by 6 a m, and arriveat
Harford the I'uefday by 9 a m.
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR
GINIA.
6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfc to Yorktown
Pa. once a week.
1 esve Baltimore every Friday by 4 p m, arrive
at Blac'lthotfe on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive
at Yorktown by 8 rm. Returning—L«ave York
town every Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive at Bal
timore on Friday r.oon.
7. From Yorjctown by Hanover, Pcterlburg,
Taneyton and Fredericktown to Leefburg once a
week. \
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8 A m,arrive
at Fredericktown on Tuvfday by 5 p m, andarrive
at Leefburg on Wednesday by 2P m. Returning—
Leave Leelburg every Friday at noon, aaa arrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Suuday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotliown, Gettifburg,
Fairfield, Elizabethtown, Williamfport, Martinf
burg, Winchester, Stevenfturg and Stralburg to
Woodftockonce a week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martinfburg on Tuesday by 11 am. Leave
Martinfburg on Tuesday noon and arrive at Wood
ftock on Wednesday by 6p m. Returning—Lave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tinfljurg on Fiiday by 11 am, and arrive atYork
town on Sunday by 11 a m.
9. From Pittlburg by Cannonfburg, Wafliing
ton, Weft Liberty and Wheeling to ihe/nonth of
Filhing creek once a week (contraA for one year
only.)
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Filhing creek on Sunday at 9 a m. Return
ing—Leave Fifliing creek on Wednesday at 8a m, \
and arrive at Pittlburgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Walhington by Brownsville and Union
to Murgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Walhington by 6p m. Leave Walhington on '
Saturday at 6a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun- ;
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at '
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 r M
-11. From Baltimore by FrcdericktoWn, Eliza- '
bcthtown, Greencaftle and Chamberlburg to Ship
penlburg once a week. '
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II am, arrive J
at Fredericktown on Saturday by io am, attli- 1
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg J
011 Monday by 7p M. Returning—Leave Shippent- I
burg every Tuesday at 9 a u, arrive at Elizabeth
town at Bpm, at Fredericktown on Wednesday t
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 p m.
MARYLAND. .
12. From Elizabethtown by Hancock and Old- ]
town to Cumberland once a week. ,
LeaveCun)berland every Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at ElizaUethtojvn on Monday by 8 a m. t
Returning—l.eave Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by r
6 pm. ,
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 am, and 1
arrive at An.-apolis by 5 pm. Returning—Leave .
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by J pm. c
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway.Psrttobacco, Al-
lensfrelh, Newport and Chaptico to Lconardt*>wn p
once a week. '1
l.eave Baltimore evety Friday at IO a w>arrive '
at Annapolis at jpm. Leave Annapolis on Sat
turday it 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive at Pifcataway by 6 P m. & arrive at
Lconardtowri every Monday forenoon by 9o'clock. *-•
Returning—Leafel.eonardtown every Monday at 3 '•
rm, arrive at PifcMaway on Tuesday by 6p m w
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by
iiam, andarrive at Annapolis by 6p m. Leave ®
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 3 r m . d
1?. From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert court house to 3t. Leon. a
ards oftce a week
Leave Annapoli" every Saturday at 9a m, and 5j
arriveat Si. Leonards «u Monday by 3p m. Re- i,,
Jurying—l.eave St. Lronards every Monday at 4 A
»nd arrive 4t Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 am.
16. From Cladcrffcurg by Upper Marlborough, to
m X Lower vfirlhor Ac viufco,3cn
usdid and Charlaci.ch.il I to Chaptico once u weelt.
Leave Bhdenlburg every Saturday if: 7 a m, ar
rive at Upper Marlborough by noon and at Lower
Marlboroughon Monday by 5 p m, & at Chaptico
by 6 r M, Reluming—l.eave( hapticoeveryThtu f
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Biadenlburg on Jistur
day *t 6 a m.
" 17. Fro.ll Georgetown by Mont^oir.cry court
house to Fcedc/icktown once a week.
Leave Georgetown every Friday fry 6 a m, and
arrive at Fredericktown by 6pm. Returning—
Leave Fredericktown every Thutfduy by 5 am,
' " and arrive at Georgetown by 6v m.
d ~ Virginia.
18. From Wood flock by Mew murker, Rocking-
L 0 han court Jioufe, Staunton, Lcxiugtoti and Fincaf-
Ue to Big Lick once a week.
v " Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6 a Hi, ar
rive at Staunton on Friday at I p m. Leave Staun
y> ton every Friday at 1 vm, arrive at Big Lick on
u ' Sunday by 11 am. Returning—Leave Big Lick
op Sunday by 1 p », arrive at S auuton every Tues
day by 11 am. Leave Stauntom by iz o'clock
2 (noon) and arrive at Woodikock -on Wednesday by
'SPM.
I 19. From Big Lick by Montgora ry courthouse
T » and Wythe eourt house to Abingdon once a week.
y* | Leave Big Lick every Sunday at 1p m, arrive
""" at Wythe court house on Tuesday by ap m, and at
)'» Abingdon on Wednesday by 6p m Returning—
-11 Loava Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, arrive
Y at Wythe court house on Frf3ay by % pm, and ar
r lve at Big Lick on Sunday by 11 a m.
TENNESSEE.
20. From Abiugdon, Vir. by Jontfborough
Greenville, Moffat's Ikore and Jefferfon court houle
n to Knoxvilic once a week.
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m* ar
-3* rive at Moffats ftorc on Saturday by 8a m. Leave
l " j MofFits by 9 a m, and arrive at Knoxville on Sun
l" day by 10 am. Returning—Leave Knoxville eve
ry Sunday by Ipm, arrive at Moffats on Monday
n by 3 pm. Leava Moffats on Monday at 4r w,
y and arrive at Abingdon on Wedntfday by 7p m.
VIRGINIA
| at. From Winchester by Romaey to Moorfieldi
'"I once a week.
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 a M,and
arrive at Moorfield en Friday by 6P M. Return
, ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a m ,'and
~ arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6P M.
" 21. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
Y and Shepherdftown to Martinfburg once a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9 a u,
'* 3nd arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by to am;
" Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by
" noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7a m.
»3. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Ljy
" tars,Tappahannock, Urbanna and Glouceileccourt
lt house to Yorktown once a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Wadnefday jt 6 a
<1 arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
n am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown cm Saturday by iiam. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
i» at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
1- at Frederickfkurg on Tuesday by j PM.
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court
- house, Weflmereland court house, Kinfale, Farn
e ham churr'. and Northumberland court house to
II Lancaster court house once a week-
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
J arrive at Lancafler court house on Saturday by 11
Y am. Returning—Leave Lancaster court house «v
---i ery Saturday by t PM. and arrive at Tappahan
no.k on Monday by ti a m.
e 25. From Frederickfburg by Culpeper court
house ScOrangec. h. toCharlottefvilleonce a week.
1 Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at to am,
1 aud arrive at liharlottcfville on Thursday "by 11 a
t m. Returning—Leave Charloctefville on Saturday
at 8 PM, aud arrive at Frederickfburg on Titef
- day by 6 a m.
26. From Richmond by Goochland court
-1 house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week.
: Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 r M,ar
• rive at Charlottcfville on Thursday by 11 an.
Leave Charlottcfville bv noon and arrive at
• Staunton on Friday 11 am. Returning—
Leave Staunton on Saturday by 6 A m, arrive at
• Charlottefville by 7 r M, and arrive at Rich
-1 mond the next Tuesday by 9 AM.
27. Frum Staunton by Bath court-hcufe and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-house once a.
week.
Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6 a m, and
ariive at Greenbrier court-h«ufeon Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court
houfeevery Monday by 9 AM, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 P M.
. 28. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War
minfter, New-Market, Amherft court house,
Cabellfburg, ami Maddifon to Lynchburg once
a,wcek.
Leave Charlottefville every Thurfdiv it ; P
M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
p m. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 A m, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A m.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
or if carried in stages as often as they shall run.
Leave Richmond every Wcdntfday it jam,
arrive at Todds at 3 p m, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 a m. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 p m, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 P M.
30. From Richmoftd by Hopkins's, Powha
tan court houfr, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg 10 New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A m,
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
w, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 A M,
and at New-Londou by 10 AM. Returning—
Leave New-LoDdon every Friday at 2 P M, ar
rive at Lynchburg by 5 p m, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 p M, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday bv 4 P M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
tle once a week. ,
Leave New London every Friday at I P M,
and arrive at Fincaftie cn Saturday by 6 t m.
Rtturning—Leave Fincaftie on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New London on Tuesday faoon.
31. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinville once in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at S A
M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 P
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 AM,
and arriveat Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm. ,
33- From Princ® Edward court house by ,
Charlotte court house to Halifax court houle
once a week.
Leave Prince Ed ward court house every Thurs
day at 6A M, and arrive at Halifax court house '
op Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax court house on Friday by 2 PM, and ar- j
live at Prince Edward court house on Saturilay
by 6P M. I
VIRGINIA andNOUTH-CJROLJNA.
34. From Halifax rourt-houle by Halifax old town,
Cariers, Martinville, Patrick couri-houfc, Upper Sau- i
Gcrmantown and Bethaoia to Salem once in two j
weeks. - t
Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
a, PM, and arrive at Salem the next Monday by 6, ]
PM. Returning—Leave Salem every other Tuesday 3
at 6, A M, and ajrive at Halifax court-house on Fri- c
day by io, A M. 1
£5. Fiom Harris's by Hickes'tford to Halifax twice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by 1
A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6, P M. Return- °j
i.ig—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6,/ p
A M> and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M*
VIRGINIA.
5»". From Smithfield by Southampton court-house *
to Hickcs's ford once a week. r
l " Leive Hioks's ford every <u£e» Fri 7ay l»v 2, P M,
: and ar»iv c at SmithtirM Sataniay by*, PM
Re urninjx—I.cavcSmithfiild every oilier Sunday by
f 5» A M, and arrive at Hicks's tord oa Monday by
0 2, PM.
[- 37. I'VomGoldforts by G-ffbridge, St. Taminanv's,
I\kckle ( j|, cr g anc j court-houfes ana Ei
mandsnoreto Gildl'mi's ncearwctk.
- t Goldfon'k everv WerfhefcUy at io, A M, and
return Sa'urday bv 2, P M, *wauin» at each
j Po.l-Oificc 2 hours after delivery of the nui .
niiGIXIA NOITH-C-JROLINA.
j 38 From Suifjlk.by Edenton, Plymouth and VVa
' fhi»gtou to Newbern, once a wc<;k Leave Suffolk
every Monday at noon, arrive at Edenton ou Tues
day at x, P M. at Plymouth, on by 6,
A M, at by 6, P M, and at Newbern <ul
Tnutfday by PM. Reiurniug—Leave Newbern
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Waihington by
5. P M. Arrive a * Plymouth on Saturday by 4
P M, at Kdt-mon on Sunday by g, A M s ai.datSuf
tt folk on Monday by 9, A M.
k NORTH CAROLINA,
39. From Edentorvby Hen ford, Nixonton, Eliza
k beth city, and Jonelburg to Indian-iowo, once a
j week.
Leave Edeitton every WednefdaV bv 1, P M, and
e arrive at Ind'idn-town On i'hu fday by 6, P M. Re
turning^— Leave IndiantowneveryToefdayby 5, A M,
e and arrive at Edenton on Wednesday at ti, A M.
t 4° *rom Halifax by Northampton cjurt-houfe,
Princeton, Murfrec thorough, Wintou and Windsor
c to Edenton. once a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at AM, and arrive
at Edenton on Wtancfday by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
on Saturday by 11, A M
1 41. From Halifax by Scotland, Hogton* Williams
* ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a- week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and arrive at Ply
mouth on Wednesday by 10, A M. Returning—
; Leave Piynaoath on Wednesday at a, PM, and ar
- rive at Halifax on Friday at 10, AM.
4a. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
j Wafoinjftpnonee a week.
t Leave Halifax every Monday at 10, AM, and ar
rive at Walhington on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning—Leave Washington every Wednesday at g,
R PM, and ariive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
43. From Halifax by Warienton, Williamfborough,
. Oxtord, Hillfborqugh, Martinville, Salem, Lexing
ton, Salisbury and Siatefville to Charlotte and from
" Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Salisbury, and
i from theqee by the fame route *o Halifax, once a
week.
5 Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, A M, arrive at
Watrettfon by Pulrf, arrive at Hillfborough on
, Wedoefjdav-|t at Salem on Friday by 5,
P M, at Sahfbury on Saturday at 4, P M, and at
y Charlotte o* Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave
. Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
ou Tneiday by io, AM, arrive at Salem t on Wed—
t nefday at 9, A M. at HilUborough on Friday by g,
A M, at on Saturday at 7, P M, and at
Halifax «n Monday at 6, A M.
court-house, Leafburg, Cafwell court-house and Roc
kiogham court-house to Germantown once in two
weeks.
J Leave Hi! I (borough every other Thursday at 6, AM,
c and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave German own every other Sunday at 6, A, Mj
- ki.d arrive at HUllborough on Tuesday at 4, PM.
45. From Salem by Beihania, Huntfville, Rocb
> ford, Wilkes, Morgauton and Rutherfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. pace in two weeks.
I Leave Salem < ve>y other Saturday at 5 a m, and ar
rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5 PM. Le*ve
. Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a m, and ar
rive at SftUm tf\e next Monday at 6 r m.
46. From LoUiTburg by Nalb court-house to Tar
borough once a week.
Leave Taiborough every Friday by 6 a m, and ar
riveat Louilbuig by 6r m. Returning—Leave Louif
-1 burg every Saturday by 6A m, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by 6 r m.
47. From Raleigh by Smitbfield, Wayrtefborough
and Kingflon to Newbem, once in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every other Tuelday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbein the next Friday by 10 a m*
1 Returning— Leave Newbcrn every other Friday by 2
t m, and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 ? m.
48. From Raleigh by Chapel hill to HilUborough,
and from HilHborough by Chapel hill and Chatham
court-houleto Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Raleigh ««ery Tuesday by 6 a m ( and ar
rive at HiUfborough by 6 p m. Returning—Leave
Hill (borough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 a m.
49. From Fayettcville by filizabethtown, Bcllefort
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Washington, Sare&o and Sampson court
[ bouse to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at 10 a.m. Re
turning—Leave Wilmington every Thursday t
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 pm,
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
court-house to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anfon court-house and Rich*
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrire at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9 a m, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noon and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 r m.
,51 From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmingtou once a week.
Leave Newbern jevery Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil
mington eery Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at New
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH & NORTH CAROLINA.
sc. From Camden by Lancafler court-house, Char
lotte and Lmcolnton to Statefville, once in two
weeks.
Leave Camden every otl\cr Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6 r m Leave Statef
ville every other Friday by 2 p m, aod arrive at Cam
den on-Metulty by 6 r M.
SO UT ti- C AROL INA y
53. From Columbia by Winnflaorough, Chester
couruhouf|T, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville rourt-hcufa to . Ptckenfville, and
from Pickenfville by Laurens court-house and New
bury court-house to Coldmbia, once a week : waiting
one hour at each pod-office on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive at
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at
Piclterifville on Thursday at4P m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Friday at 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 pm.
From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charleston,
once a week.
Leave Colombia every Monday at 10 a m. and ar
rive at Charleston on Thursday at 10 a m. Returning
—Leave Charleston every Thursday at t r m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at neon.
SQUTH-CsIHOLINA Is GEORGIA. .
55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambridge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat
tonsford, Franklin court-house, Elbei ton and Peters
burg to Washington, and from Walhington by Pe- 1
terfburg and Cambridge to Edgefieid court-house,
once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday by 8 a m
arrive at Pendleton cnurt-hou'e on Sunday by 9a m, !
arrive at Franklin court-house by 7 p m, at Pcterfburg
on Tuesday by 10 am, aqd at Washington by 5 p
m. Leave Walhingron every Wednesday at 6 a m,
at Cambridge on Thursday t>y 10 am, and at Edge- 1
held cburt-boufe by 7 r m.
56. Frbui by Washington, Grccnfhurg and i
Lexington to once a week. f
Leave Augulla evffy Monday at 3 PM, arrive at 1
Washington oa Tuesday by 5. p m, and arrive at 1
Georgetown on Thursday by 7r m Returning— "
Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6a m, and arrive t
at Augusta by neon on Monday. ]
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week*. I J
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at a p m, and arrive ) y
3 C; ajo ens Cogner by 8f m. Returning—Leave Gar* t
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and arrive at [
Beaufort by to a. m.
Note I. The Pojl Mnjler General may alter the times I
of arrival and departifire at any time during the continuance c
of the contrails, be ptcvrciffty Jlipuinting art adequate cofn- r
penfatiou for any extra expenfc that v.ay beoccajtonedthere
by
Note 2. Half an hour fball be allowed J or opening ?
and clojing the Atfnitjttill ivhert n» particular time C
is fp. if ltd. a
» Note 3* f*r evtiy hour's delay /unavoidable accidents
- e <copied) in arriving after the t'iwcs prefcrihed in any con-
Y traft, the Contractor Jhall jorjeit one dollar, and if the de
y lay continue until the departure of any depending Mail,
thereby the Mails definedfor fob depending A foil, lose
i, a trip, an additional forfeiture of Jive dollars Jhall be
incur red*
AW 4 Neivfpapers at ivtll as Let ers are to be font
it the Alails / 11 nd if any person malting profwfils desires
1 to cbrry mzvjpapers other thin those conveyed in the mail,
for hit own em.ilumentj he wuft fate in his probofals for
ivbat sum he nvill cirry it with that emolument and for
libat fuiri'hvHhout that emolument.
c Note 5 Should any perfo4 mating proposals deftre an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpc
' cifed, he mufl (late in his proposals tbg alterations desired,
* an 1 the difference they nvill male in the terms of his con -
I traß '
, Note 6. Persons mating pripofals are dtfircd tp fate
their prices in profs by the ye r, and not by the milt.
"Those nvbo contract nvill receive their pay quarterly, in
the months of January, April, July and O&ober, in
drafts on the pofl offices on the roiti< and in bank notes.
a Note 7 The contracts are to be in operation oh the JtrH
day of April next, and continue for four years, until
} the 3 day of M.arch inclujive, in the ytar loC 2.
; JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Poli-Majier General.
r General Post Office,
Philadelphia, December 18, I 797*3
? tuth&st^iftj
j New Afiembly Room,
South Fourth street, between Chefnut and Walnut
ftreeti.
Mr, FRANCIS,
OF THE NEW-THEATRE,
RESPECTFULLY informs his scholars and the
public in general, that bis Academy for Danc
, ing will commence, for the season, on Thursday,
December I ?, at the above
ELEGANT ROOM ;
- When he hopes to receive the continuance of their
> accudomcd patronage, which it will be his unre
• mitting endeavor to deserve.
• The days of teaching for his young pupils are
Thurfjays and Saturdays, from 3 o'clock in the
| afternoon till 6, anj from 6 till 9, for thjfx of a
more advanced age.
As an accommodation to those living in this vi
t Linage, Mr Francis intends to inftru& as small
party of children on Wednesday and Friday after
noon., at his house.
t DiitiniS from the Pra&ifing Balls, Mr. Francis
. will have four private fcle& Subscription Ball*.
f Private teaching, either at the Academy, or his
- house.
, Mr. Francis's fir ft Pra&ifmg Ball will be on
t Tuesday, 19th Bee. at the New AlTembly Rcom.
Ladies and Gentlem.n|s tickets to be had, by
» applying to Mr. F. as usual.
For further particulars, enquire of Mr. F. No.
' 70, north Eighth street. Dec. 11—mwftf
, Imported in the brig Eliza,
Cap. Hastie,/rom Bourdeaux ;
' Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Witie in Cases,
Olive Oil'in baflcets of 11 bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. 3ilk do.
; A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sa/c by
JAMES I ATIMER, jun.
'/[,South Wharves.
Who has also for Salt,
A few qr. Caflts Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. daw
For Sale by the Suljlfcriber,
1 to bales Cofl'as
40 do. Baftas
II do. Mamoodf
' 17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
a do.
! 15 do. M.ragungees
, 3 do. Checjc Stripes
I do. Guzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
»5 pipes fineft particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage 179 J.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Becember 5. 3XW4W
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpe&s to his Friends, and the
, Public in general, iti!orm» them that he hasopened
an Office, at Kis house, No. 88, Spruce street, for
tho purpsfe of tranfaAing business in the line of
Commission and Agency, collating rents and out
(landing claim, in any part of the United States.—»
He flatters himl'elf, that from his long refidancc in
this country and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cices will be i'ound worthy the notice of those who
may please to confide to him the management of
any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given where required,
nth mo 14 -tawtf
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lattery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent rfwelling-houfe ao,ooodollars,
it calh 30,000, arc fo.opo
1 ditto if,ooo & caO 15,000 40,00 a
1 d.'.to 15,000 & oafh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafb 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 Sc calh 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 i0,(3q0
1 tadi prize of 10,000
i do. 5,000 each, . 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - io,oqc
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. too • - 10,000
J it) do. 50 - - io,po<'
400 do. a 1 - - 10,000
1,000 do. 4 " ao,oor
15,000 do. 10 • 150,0011
Prizes.
jj,a6i Wanks. 1
Jc,ooo Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,006
N. B. Tohvour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oki :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elsgant specimen of
tbeprivarte buildings to be ert-iled in the City ef
Waihiogton—Two beautiful deCgjis sre already
(eleAed for the entire (routs on two of the public
fquar;s; from these drawing'it ispropofedtoeredt
twoceiitrewid 'Our cornerbaittiings ns loon sspof
fible after this lottery isfold, ardto convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
the manner described in the Scheme l"br the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
he made to defray the neccffary expenfps of print
wig, &c. and the furpla« will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Umvcrifty, to
be ere&ed within the city of Walh'irigtOn.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
PHzes. are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Gank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL ULCDGET.
.5. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ;• of Jaitaes Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilman, Boflon ; of Joint Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Walls, Cooper's Ferry. niwf
A farm for sale,
T Perth Amboy in the state of New-Jerfcy,
A of four hundred a-.-res, including a proper
proportion ot meadow, of arable and wood
laud, anil fait marlh : There is on the premises,
a good apple orchard, and a variety of otber
truit trees, it is well watered with fprirjjs and
brooks, it is bounded on two fides with navi
gable waters and has a good mill site, its situa
tion is healthy and plcafant, commanding *
view of the navigation of Perth Amboy and it»
environs, and eonvenier.t to the fineft filh and
oysters in their proper leafon, it abounds with
natural manure fr«m which, with the advanta
ges of the fait marlh by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of may at a small
expense, be enriched to 1 great degree and ren
dered one of the firft grazing farms in the state ,
it is well calculated fur a farmer or a gentle
man's feat, having several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be fold together or
divided, as may suit a purcbafer, at private
sale, or if riot fold, will be set up at public auc
tion on Tuefdav the nineteenth day of Deceiti*
ber next, at the house of Robert Rattoone, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. Any person inclining to porchafe
may view the premises by application to Johii
or Matthia; Hajied at Perth Amb»y, fcoirt
whom or from the Hon. "Jonathan Dayton, t.fq.
speaker of the house of representatives of the
United States now in Philadelphia, from Mat
thias Williamfon, jun. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town further inf®rmat(Ou may be
obtained, —and who are pofleflcd of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797.
2S- —eodtißD
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subfcribcr, propoGng* to contra© bis bufi
aefs, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grill
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfett repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State. —There are abou* two thouland acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay
Paflure. The Cannon lately mannia6tured there,
tully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fixty-nioc guns
lately made, although tome of the 24 were bored
into 31 pounders, have failed on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly .for this branch of
manufatture, and a place ot arms lying in the (late
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land •
ings on the Hud lon's river, and having every advan
tzge that ca» result fr®m a plenty of water ilTuing
from 9 large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the (lock and utensils, and have poffeflion
onqr before the firft of June next, and preparation
maybe made in themean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pdit will be delivered
in good order, with feme coal, Ore, &c. &e. For
terAs, apply to Mr. jofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentahvet
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
the premises, or to iKe proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. 3awtf V
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
with the Lot on which it is ereiled, iituated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The hoflfe is forty two
feet front, and in neat ordef. Thte tot' contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
street, and extends with the fame -breadth back
flrcet. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly feur
acres, fe£aratcd from the former hy back street.
One third only of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a de*d, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purdlafe
ermaychufe. This property will be fold fre« »-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title giveiif
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, reliding in Bordentown, near,
the premises, who will (bew the fame, or cf i
PETER THOMSON,
' Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-ftree*.
December 1. jawtf
Real Estate for Sale,
A PLANTATION, in a heathy and good si
tuation on Oheiter Creek, in Middleton
Townfliip, Delaware County, containing H9I
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which arc woo J
land, well timbered ; tho remainder plough land
and watered meadow—.of the latter, uiany more
acres can be ma-de at a small expence. There are
on said premises, a good orchard of befl grafted
fruit, a house, with a fpfing near the door, a frame
barn with stabling under, and a log tefi£m»nt on
one part ol said place.——Any person inclining
to purchase, rtoay view the premises by applying
*.o Wm. Pennbll, on said farm, and know the
terms by applying to Jonathan Pe to Nell,.in th'fe'
borough of Ckeiler.
novemher li. $t eod
, To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 a.gres ana 40 perches, Wjjth a neat tw«
fforv. brick House and Kitchen thereon, an' apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Iri/ta tradl lane, in the
townfliip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars wilt
he made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taflfe and
elegance* (land unrivalled.
December t. dtf
All Persons who are indebted to
the estate of William Heysham, fen. of Phila
delphia, deceafcd, arc re<juefted to make speedy
payment; and those who have, any demand# a
gainst said estate, will plcafeto present them, pro
perly attcfted, to the fubfcriberi.
William Hey/ham, ~l
Robert Heyjham. >- Executors.
FraficU Boives Sayre, J
rtovember 6. 2&W4W
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Edition,,
H. y P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South SeconiJ. ajid No. 50, Market street,
HAVE jull received by the lite arrivals (rem
London and Dublin, their fprir.- importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latelT and most
approved 1 aw Books which,added totllofe alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftdxtenfive colledion ev
er ofTeredior sale in this couKtry. They theieifore
beg leave to notice, thtit Irom the nature of their
ConneSicnsiu Dublin, they are enabled to lelllrifn
' editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest |>rices. The following are among the latctk
publications.
Vcfey, jun'rs Reports iif Chancery, 2
Peake's Cases at Nili Prius j Ridgtway's Rc»orn
in the time of Lord Hardwicke ; Eioyer's Procters
Praiftice in the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pradice of
the Court of King's Bench in Pe.fonal 2
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses; modern Reports, J» vols. London edi
tion. .
H. and P. Rice ctpt& to receive by the firfl ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the zdpart of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
Juiia a 6.