of tide Sitoo, and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
11515.]
For 80/ ion,
Schooner
SALLY,
- —Asa Scudder, Master,
NOW lying at Chefnut-ftrcet wharf; wilt fail
in a few days. For freight or paffagr, apply
to tie Captain ou board, or to
Jo/epb Anthony, Co.
For Sale on board said Sceooner,
A few barrels of flat MACKAREL.
July 13- *st
Person s having freight on board the said fchoo
'ier, arc defied to call immediately for the fame.
tor Amrterdam.
THE SBIP
Four Friends,
JosErti Glenn, Mailer ;
\\/ILL fail with all convenient speed.the grea- ]
V V ter part of her cargo being ready. For
freight or paflage apply to the captain on board,or
JeJfe Rob. Wain.
J u 'y dtf
For Hamburgh,
C H ATL (XT T E,
C. F. Danenbctger, Mafier.
ILL be ready to receive the cargo in a few
days, and is afaft failing staunch, good vef
fe), well feund—-For freight or paflage, apply to
George Pennock,
No. 103, Mariet-fireet.
July 7- jaw?w
LAND IN G, ~"
At Walnut-flreet wharf, from on boad (trip Man
chcfter, Benj. Shctyell, mailer, from Bourd«anx,
Bourdeaux Brandy-
Old Claret in hhds.
Medoc Wine in cases
Sauterne do. do.
For Sale by
Thomas Murgatroycf,
No. 11, Walnutfireet.
Said Ship for Freight or Charter,
. Burthen 280 tons, Philadelphia
% built of live Oak and Cedar, will
he ready to fail in a few days.
Apply as above.
July s- mwf
For Sale,
The fine and remarkably fail
failing Schooner
ifTgr Virginia and Philadelphia
liurtlien*aSouf 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rofs y Sim/on.
'June n. dtf
Lajl Exhibition
IN the great Dancing Room of Mr. M'Dougall,
South L ourth-ftreet, between Chefnut and Wal
nut ftrcet, at 8 o'clock in the evening.
The Automatons which have excited the admi
ration of the cwnnoiffoors, will aWblutcly leave for
ever their astonishing cxerciics, on Friday the aid
ot rhi' month. After the experiments of natural
philorophy, the artificial lady will exhibit several
fire works without pow Jer or (mell.
Entrance half a dollar—Children half price.
July la, "jawtit
Printed Calicoes,
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, vefy low on
(hort credit. ■
March 6. i §
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front- street,
Hyson }
Hyson Skin ( T EAS
Young Hyfpn (
Imperial j
April 20. _ eotf
The Shareholders
,C/' the Pena/ylvania Papulation Company,
AH.E requested to meet at the Company's Of
fice, No <3. North Fourth Street, on Saturday
the 15th infl. at I» o'clock.
By order of the Board,
SOLOMON MARACHE, Sec'ry.
July 1. si6t.
~ T O B E SOLD,
A valuable three story Brick House }
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bankbf
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it (lands, t«-
with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-flreet. The house is about 50
feet in front on Lodge alley, and about 42 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth
llreet, being a street -yhich leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dock-street at the
horse market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
ether about thirty-feur feet, each containing
two fire placts, two parlours and a large kit
cheti, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets
ever the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
ef ground to the east ward between this haufe
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
vard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on
Goforth-flreet. The premises now rent for
jr.pß per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Stacker.
April 20 3-"»'tf
COLUMBIA HOUSE -^
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MttS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpetf, returns her sincere acr
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, fa far from intending to decline her
school, (lie has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodatien of her
scholars.— 'Every branch of ufeful and pplite
education U particularly attended to by Mrs.
Gi oombridge and masters excelling in their
refpedive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
Jnfte Jth, t?97- , , ..
The situation is perfeiflly healthy ; and made
moreagreeable by an cxter.five garden and lot
of ground adjoining the tyoul'e.
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, JULT 18, 1797
Federal-Street Theatre.
NOTICE is hereby given, that the Trustees
of the Boftou Theatre* will receive Propo
iais from any person, or company, for the lease
of the Theatre in ffderal-ftreet, for a term not
excec«':ng five tears.
Aljb, to be hi, The Dwelling House part
of the fame building, e the cedar under the
fame. For terras of lease, iHcjaire cf
THOMAS BARTLETT, Pro's Clk.
Bolton, July 5. dl4t
C A U T I O N.
"IT7"HEREAS Richard Lake has been at-
V V templing te fell a certain messuage or ten
ement ir.d lot of ground, situated on the south
(ide of Yine-fttreet, in tlyj city of Philadelphia
containing in breadth,*n Vine-flrcet. Gxteen
feet, and ih depth, southward, seventy five feet,
bounded on the north fide by Vine-street, on
the east by ground late of Samuel Rhades and
Sarah his wife, on the south by ground late of
John Pemberton, and on the weft > another lot
then about to be granted to Jofcgb Hulir.gs—
This is therefore to caution all persons againift
purchasing the above described property, the
fame having been mortgaged by the said Rich
ard Lake to William Spade
SARAH SPADE.
July 14. eojw
THE Members of the Society of the "uns«f St.
Giokgi, eflab Ijfued at Philadelphia, for the
Advice and Assistance of Englilhmea in Dittrcfs. are
requested to attend a Quarterly Meeticg of. th;: said
Society, at the Cftty Tavern, on Monday the 14th
of July, at 7 o'Clock in the Evening.
GEORGE DAVIS.
N.B. Several Members to be balloted for.
July 14. .. eoti4
LANDING,
AT Soqth-dreet Wharf, from on hoard schoon
er Expedition, captain Harding Williams,
from St. Thomas, a Cargo of
Coffee, Sugar, and Rum.
For Sale by
F. Coppinger,
No. 221, South Front-fircet.
July 10. §lot
Wants Employment,
IN a (lore, a Man who can be well recommend
ed, writes a good hand, and underflands ac
compts. Apply at No. 50, North Fifth Street; and
Cherry-alley. Any reputable place will suit.
July 10. *3t
A Wet Nurse Wanted.
A Healthy Woman with a good bread of
milk, may hear of a place by applying at
the Priming Office of this paper.
July 10.
Health-Office, Philadelphia, Ith June, 1797.
r I'HE Board of Health offer to rent out the NEW
JL CITY HOSPITAL, usually calledThc Wig.
TV MM.
It maybe occupied a* a Tavern, for which there
arc excellent accommodations. The person taking
it mud be capable and willing to ad in the capaci
ty of a Steward; in cafe a contageous difeaie in ,
the city, ihould at any time render it neeeffary to
make nfc of the premifea as a Hospital. It cannot
therefore b«'let for any limited time—and the red
oainted frame building is to he reserved. Proposals
in writing will be received at this office, Hating
what rent will be allowed under the foregoing cir
cumdancas. None need apply without being able
to produce the heft recommendations.
JOHN MILLER, J*n.
Chairman of the Beard of Health.
July 8. $
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, 6th July, '97.
THE mati fir New Castle, Cant well's it idge,
Duek Creek crojs toads, Dover, Frederiea, Mil
ford, George To-zut fin the place of Clowes) and
Dagjborougb, in Delaware ; Trap and Snow
bill, in Maryland ; Horn Town, Accomack C.
H. and Northampton C. H- in Virginia ; ill
be closed every Monday, WednefJay,and Friday,
at fun fet■ lßt
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extract of an a& passed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 19th December,
1791, entitled, " As aft far erefling a bridge
over Potowmac river.
<• And be it enaSed, that the faiii dirtAars or
any two »f them (hall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion from each
and every propriator, as may from time to time
be necefTary for carrying on the building of ftid
bridge ; and after giving three months public
notice, it (hall and may be lawful for the direc
tors to sue for and recover in the nam* of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all cods
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
therecm rom the time the fame (hould have
been paid: And the negledl or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice (hall have
been given at lead for three months in all the
newfpapersheiein before enumerated, (hall have
the effect to forfeit all preceding payments nude
an the (hart er (hares so neglefled or refufed to
be paid ts the ufc and benefit of the company."
mation of such of the tlockholders a 6 have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow : Oil the ift November,
1795, 40 dollars, on the loth May, 1796, 40
dollars ; an the »oth July, 1796, 4a dollars ; on
the jft September, 1796, 40 dollars, aild on the
ill November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effetfl agaiaft all delin
quents.
By order of the Directors,
WALTER SMITH, Treasurer.
Georgetown, May I, 1797. iaw3m
Young Hyson Tea.
40 cherts of a superior quality—Alfa,
too do.of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
ftrret.
C. Haight.
June 11. . CB 'f
By John Fenno, N°-
250 Barrels
Crmnetlicnt Herrings, aud 250 barrels of Beef,
For Sale on board rha fchoonir Pruileiict,Crook»
ed Billet Wharf—or by
EZEKfEL HALL,
' Jones's W.
July ij. " -J ' v
Curious & Llegant Representations
Of A GREAT VARTE'ry of BIRDS,
In which, their real pcumagi is preserve3 v and
which afe fold as cheap as Common prints, by
JOHN ORMROD,
No. 41, Chefnut Street.
Nr, is. 3 t.
William Blackburn,
LOTTERr and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second-dreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five fird drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the last day of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of VVafiiington, Na.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing 1* the course ps the summer.
' The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Nates, Lands, &c-&c. tranla&ed with the
utmsft a:tentiun.
J une * 1 tu*f
The Commissioners
FOR carrying into effeiS thejlxth article of the
treaty of amity,commerce and navigation, con
cluded bet ween his Erit.nnic maj; sty ?nd the United
States of America, en the 19th day of November,
1794, having this day conltituted tkeir Board,
putfuant aad agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they are ready to proceed to
bufinefa accordingly; and they desire that all claims
under the fain article (which so far asthe fame de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
1 hey further desire that all such claims may not
only state in what manner the several cases come
within the defcriptioH of the said article, but also
specially set forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpeAively undertake tefub
ftantiate the fame.
Extradl from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledgcd by divers Brltifh mer
" chants, and ethers his majeft)'s fubjeds, that
" debts to a eonfidrrabla amount, which were bona
" fide contracted, before the peace, Trill remain
" owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of the
" United States; and that by the operation of va
" rious lawful impediments, since the peace, not
" only the full recovery of the said debts has been
" delayed, but also the value and security thereof
" have been in several instances impaired and lc(T
---" ened, so that by the ordinary courle of judicial
" proceedings, the Britifii creditors cannot Bow
" obtain and a&ually have and receive full and
" adequate compcnfation for the losses and dama
" ges which tney have thereby fuf.ained: It is a
" greed that in all such cases where foil compenfa
" tion for such losses and damages caruwt fat what
" ever reason be aflu lly obtained, bad and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary courfj
" of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
" creditors : but it is diftindlly understood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, and is not to extend to losses occasion
" ed by such infelvency of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had. not
" existed ; nor to furh losses or damages as have
" been occasioned by the manifeft delay, ornegli
'• fceucc, or wilful omiflion of the claimant."
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commissioners' Office,
No. 3 south Sixth-street, May 29,
1797- J 6—iim
r HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miuilter Pleni
potentiary of his Britaomc Majetty, General Agent
(or adiding Britidi creditors, and iuch particular a
gents as they may specially authorize, 111 prosecuting
their claims before the cemmidioners for carrying'in
to effetf the sixth article of the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between his Britannic and
the United Stales of America, hereby gives noi ice that
he has opened hii offi e at his bouse the south ealt
corner of Chefnut and fifth drrcts, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or inltrufiiuus
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which tbe board may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the intered of all concerned,
that the several claims be so dated, aad Upport
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the necessity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from persons redding at a distance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direction chiedy of tbofe, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims te his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to set forth—
id. The proper defCripiion and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, and original debtor, reflect
ively.
sd. Tbe date anddature of the original contrad or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant was prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or defe6t of law, the
decisions and pratiice of courts, or teflraint of exe
cution, from recovetiug payment of the debt in
quedion.
4th The loss and damage incurred or fudained,
in consequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arifcn from the infolveuev, Change of
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or other causes impairing
the value and lecurity of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impediments had notexided.
And jth The pattiCular grounds and reafoas on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, thai " by the ordinary courte of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and adually
have aud reccsve full and adequate compensation" for
the lolfes and damages so fudaiued.
The general agent thinks it bis duty further to fug
ged that the several claims ought 10 be accompanied
and fupperted by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly atteded, both as to the exidence
of the debts claimed, and such other ciicumlbnces
as may be within their pwn knowledge refpeftively.
And wherever the claimants in dating the nature of
their evidence (which mud in everv indance be the
bed of which tbe cafe is capable) have occadon to
icfer to the tedimony of witnesses, it will be proper
to apprifethe general agent of the names and places
of residence of such witnesses and the faitsto be etla
blifhed by their tedimony.
■ Wm. Mcore Smith.
Philadelphia, Bth, 1797. dtfc»
City CommiJJioners' Office,
IMC r . J*™ 22 »
N puriuance ef an ordinance from the felefi
and common councils, passed the 22d day of
May last, appointing the city commiffioiiers,
and prescribing their duties, feilion oth,
NOTfCE IS HEKEBY GIVKN,
That the i :t;. ; s divided into five diftrifls,
each to be under the fuperintendancc of one cf
the city comrtiiffianers, uhois to be individually
rtlponfiblfc for the cleanlinef» of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftrift No. i. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
der the superintendence of Nathan Boys.
1. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-llreet, under the fuper
llitendtnce «f Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, under'the fuperintehdente of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-ftreet,-t<»the
north fidr- of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mu! berry -'street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under rhe super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
clcaningof High-street to be in common.
I-* A dated meeting of the city eommiftion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at o'clock
J ul r U- eoim
Stands for Draymen, &.c.
In prtrf nance of an Ordinance from the Seleft and
Common Councils,bearing date the lid day of
April, 1797.providing for the appointment of
City Commijfoners, t3£. SeS. the l;!h.
T'HE following places are fixed upen by the
(aid City Commissioners far ijia'nda for
Dcavmen d their Horses,
In Vine-ftr«et, eallward of Fror.t-Jirctt, on
both fides.
Sallafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
east ward ot Fropt-ftreet, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south Side from Front to
Third-street.
Front-llrcet, east fide from Vine-street to
Elirith'i alley.
Front-fti eet, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's (lores, east fide.
Water-llreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Maori's (tores to Pinc-ftreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Cedar-(treat, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-flreet.
Spruce, Pine and South llreets, east of Froat,
street, south (ide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-flreet and the
flag (tone erodings, call fide, oppafite George
Orkley's.
Second-street, between Saffafras and Vine
streets, weft fide-
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Saffafras-ftreet, from Thiri to Fourth-street,
east fide.
Na dray or horse to (land within ten feet of
any pump.
STANDS rOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
streets.
Fifth-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets, weft.
Branch-street, north fide, between Third and
Fourth streets.
July 14. mw&fim
Philadelphia and Lancafier Turn
pike Company.
July 10 fl, 1797.
AT a meeting of the Prefidcnt and Managers,a
dividend of seven and a half dollars per lhare
was declared for the lad half year, which will i.e
retained by the Prefidest and Managers far the
purpoles of paying the debts of the Company, a
greeable to a resolution of the Stockholders the 12th
June lad.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
Extract from the Minutes of tbf Stockholders,
June I2th, 1797.
Rtfolved,
That tl>e fuhfeription opened for one Imudred
additional (hares of dock, conformable to a resolu
tion of the nth January, 175*6, be now plofe.l,
and that the dock »f the Coaipany conlift of
twelve hundred indead of thirteen hundred (hares.
Wm. GOVETT, Secretary.
July 10. m&wiw m&tu3w
To be iold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at l}ie house ef Mr.
William Evans, the (ign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day as Oiflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thauland acres of land,
the property ef William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reider's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little WLnchefter, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidftrable part of
these lands} the tra<sl begins about miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the rfif
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grcfs.
ALSO,
A trad of feveil hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenfhurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenfourgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
A traft of land ©f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and - a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral CitV It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpedl, from which may be fees the
city of Walhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potamac river. Mr. Richsrd Por.fori
by, of Bladenfburg, will also (hew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greated
part of the purchase money. The terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 W3m
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacksof Java Coffee of fird quality
aoo half sacks do. do.
a few Boxes of Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For file by
KILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penaffreet. .
May 30 its
To Majlers nnd Pilots bringing up J- ijj'r't
from Foreign Ports to this City.
WHereas sundry infringements have lately b'.e.:»
made on the laws of this ilate for the pre
venting jeftikhtill or fetfedtious diseases, eiti, '-
from ignorance or iriiittentioß thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to pubiiih the ton*> v..: -
tracts trom the laws, of aid April, 1794, 7th and
Bth icvAions.
HEALTII)-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
of an rtilfor fiUfiug the city and port
of Poiladciphia from the introduction of pr/li
lentiai and contugious diseases.
Sect. 7. And he if fui ther enured, that every
mailer or captain of any ihip or vessel coming froiii
fcra (vessels actually employed n the coaitmg tratie
excepted) ?»nd bound to any port or place within
the jurifdi<slion of Pcnniylv<tnia,iha ! l cause his Hup
or vessel to be brought to anchor,or otherwise Hay
ed in the lire; l .m of tl>e river Dela war*;, oppwn' >to
the Health-Office on Stace-liland al orei a i'i and
there to remain until he ihall have duly Stained a
certificate or biil of heal h from the Rcfident Phy
sician. Andif, previouily to-o'.taining iuch certi
ficate or bill of health,' any master op captain ihali
fuffer his {hip or veil.l to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to # i:e city of Philadelphia, or
lhall land, cause ©r fuffer to be landed, or braughc
oh ihore, at any place or port within this Coip
monweaith, cr at any other port or place, with the
intent ol being conveyed into this Common wealth,
any pcrfon or peif cr ary goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if afte. receiving- such bill of healtia
o. certificate, he ir:*dl il gjt ci or r fufe to deliver
the lamp tn tiie licaltl.-Oiiicer, such mallear or cap
tain &al] foiffiit ar«d p y, for each and crtxy such
offence, tfceiximof nvt hundkcet doU.ams.
And the captain or master of'iyery lii;p or ves
sel fhaii fend a i-fe and cQmnic 'imjs boat to brii»&
the pliylic:a» on board, ind fiiaji in like manner
c6n«y fiiia back u the ILaitU-Officft, after I.- ha.
concluded his official examination ; And while he
ii making such examination, or in < afe an j subse
quent examination by ths Heal h Officer of Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the direflions of
this- a at, the mailer or captain ihall expole or caulc
tp be expo led. to the fur cb of the Keiident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer aud Consulting Phyfi
ciau (as the c.ife may he) each and every part «T the
ihip or vessel, and lh.ui prafent to his view each
and every peiion or persons on board thereof, and
and laall aifo tiue and fatisla&ory answers make
to all such Cfiieiliocs as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination if.all 21k relative to the,
health of any port or place trim which the (hip or
vessel tailed, or has lirice touched at—the number
of persons on board when the Ihip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
since .been landed or taken on board, and when
and where refpe&ively—what persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or lhall, a:
the time of examination, be infefted with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent state and condition of the persons on board
with refpeft to their health or diseases. And if
any master or captain ihall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
r if he lhall toneeal any fit person, or in any other man
"cr deceive tie proper officers aforefaid in bis antivers,
such captain or master, for every such offence, ihall
forfeit and pay tho sum of hve hundred dol
laks.
Sect. 8. And if any person or persons wliacfo
ever (the Resident Phyiician, &c. excepted) ihall
go on board any vessel, before the master thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
directed, every person so offending, ihall pay the
um ef ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS.
IT being absolutely necessary that the foregoing
fedlions ihould be punctually complied with, the
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mult ex
ad a rigorous obfervahce of the fame, or else be
under the neceflity of putting the laws in force.
WM. ALLEN, Health often- of the
Port of Philadelphia.
I.u'r 14. djw
NOTICE.
THE holders of certificates of a loan to the ex
iled citizens of the States of South Carolina and
Georgia, under an aflof Congiefs 13d July, 1781,
are informed, that by lodging the fame with
George Simpfon, Calhier of the Bank of the Unit
ed States, they will be enabled to receive payment
of principal and interest, as soon as the certificates
can be forwarded to Charleston for settlement.and
orders received for their difchsrge.
J"'y "• 6t
To be bold,
4 large and convenient
Three Story Brick House ;
OITCJ \TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
O Fourth-ftrcets. It contains eighteen rooujs—
srd is in every refped well finiihed. For particu
lars enquire ot %
M. Kcppeky
No. 13.8, Chefaut-ftreet.
May 31. $
FOR SALE;
BRETAGNES in cases
German Checksin do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
. Oznabrigs
6o!d and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
Gbfs Tumblers in caf :s
Linseed Oil in caiks, &c. &c.
George Pennock,
103, High-Streit.
J u| y .?■ 3 aw
Now Landing,
At Prates ivharf
FROM on board the ihip Thomas Ch»!klcy>
Cjpt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in caiks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
Mnv I: $
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ihip A&ive, Capt.Blair,from
Kambuigh,
JO bales white Russia clean Hemp
1 casks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
NprthFifih street, No. 34.
Tune 26. *,
_ c O T T U N.
A few liilesjull arrived, for l'ale by
JOHN CLARK,
No. 5 ; Noi?th Water Street.
Jane is. »otf.
f Vci.UMR XIISale of Madeira Wine.
WILL be fold at to o'clock on Thursday
morning, the loth itiftant, at No. LoS
Sarith \Vater-ftre?t, for approved endorsed notes
at 6o and go days ;
40 PIPES 0F LONDON PARTICULAR
Madeira Wine,
* OM nnd fit for immediate use.
JOHN CONNELLY, AuSionecr.
J" | y '7
NOW LANDING,
At HAMILTON'S WHARF,
AND tOR SALE 11V
Edward Dunaht,
No. 149 South Fronl-Jlreet,
The Cafgo'of the Snow Liberty, direct from BoUr
deauK, viz.
76 pipes of high ptoof, well flavored Brandy
300 caiks of superior Red Wine, fit for the East
India market.
He has on hand,
A few calks of English Porter in bottles, Sper
maceti Candles in boxes, and a few packages of
Calcutta Goods. <
For Sale, Freight, or Charter,
% —3.-1 THE SAID SNOW
John Wallace, Commander 5
Burthen between between 13 and
1400 'ibis, in complete order. Apply as above.
July 17. 5.1t
For Sale,
The noted fad failing Schooner
William & Sarah,
BURTHEN upwards of seven
■■ hundred barrels, jufl arrived
frrtm Jataaica, and lying at Chefntit-ftseet wharf.
This vefiel is enly nine months old, is well equip
ped in all refpe&s, i 9 burthenfome and well con
fl.ruAed for a Weft India trader. Apply to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Who have for Sale, now landing /run on board
, said Schooner,
High proof well flavored Jamaica Spirits, Sugars
of the firft quality,a few bags Coffee end Pimento
In'? ,7. diw
Philadelphia Alms-Hmfc,
nth July, 1797.
THE Managers of this Institution, anxious to
promote the necessary accommodations and relief
of the sick and allllfled Poor therein, wi(h te ap
point five refpe&able, well recommended women,
suitably qualified to aft as Nurses, in the several
wards or apartments, where such may be necessary.
For which purpose, offers or proposals, accom
panied with suitable recommendations in writing,
will be received here on or before Satuiday, sth
August ensuing.
By order of the board of Managers.
JOHN CUMMINGS, Steward.
July 17. ■ dt Aj _
Wanted in a Private Family,
\ Steady middle aged Woman, in the capacity
i 1 of an Houfekceper, and to render other rea
sonable fe'rvices. Sobriety, integrity, and mildness
of temper, are indispensable recommendations,
without which none need apply.
Alfo,for Sale,
Eleven years of ,the time of an indented servant
Girl, who is good tempered, (mart, active and ufe
ful. Apply at this office.
July !?•
Philadelphia, 15th July, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that fepiratr pro
posals with sealed covers will be reeeived
at my office until the eleventh day of September
next, to fKrnift by contradl the following ar
tides for the use of the Army of the United
States in the year 1798.
First Contrail for
S Sergeants coats
2 'Musicians, do.
10 Sergeants vests 'f Dragoons.
Ij6 Privates coats »
lib Privates vests
64 Sergeants coats
31 Musicians, do.
96 Sergeants vests
J9* Woolen overalls Artillerifls
J9l Linea overalls &
936 Privates coats Engineers.
936 do. vests
1874 Woolen ovsralli
187® Linen dp. t
144 Sergeants roats
71 Musicians, do.
at 6 Sergeaats vests
431 Linen overalls
43a Woolen do. '► Infantry.
1893 Privates coats
189 a do. vests
3784 Woolen overall*
3784 Linen do.
ift Contra©, for iaBB Sergeaats fhjrts
li3i6 Frivarc» £».
12600 Socks
ad Contrail, for »7» pair leather breeches
3d Contrail, for 172 pair boots
4600 pair (hoes, Ne. 1
8000 pair do. No. 2
4th ContraA, for 103 a Artillerists and Engi
neers hats
2108 Infantry do.
, 136 Dragoon caps
- The whole to be delivered at the city of Pbila
f delphia, viz.
One fourth on or before the 15th day of Fe
bruary next.
One fourth on or before the 15 th day of A
pril next. /
The remaining half on or before, the 15th day
of June next.
The article* are to be agreeable to such pat
terns as (hall be diredled by the Secretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be niade as soon as the articles
(hall be delivered, and palled infpeilion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
eotnthSep.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufsilured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Btfitori Ale
Red Port and other Wines, e'lhe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-ca(k or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John.Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street
Dispute between the United States
and France.
This day ispublifhed, by Thomas Bradford, No.
8, South Front street, price 2/4,
OBSERVATIONS on the dispute between the
United States and France, addrtffed by Ro-
EERT GOODtOE Harper, Of South Carolina to his
conftituenu. Juu ¥ a6-§|t
Lailson's Ciucus. -
TUESDA2' next, July I Btbi '
for the benefit of -<
MR. COLLET,
I.EADER OF TfiS BAND,
WHO rcfjiciilfully a (lures |he Ladies and Gen -
tlemen of Phi'adelphia and its environs,. '
that his ultimate wish, (ince his refidcnce in this ci-
ty, was ever to merit their countenance and pro- I
tetflion, the continuance of which, on all occancns, (
will he remembered with grateful fenfibiliry. I
The Equestrian Exhibition ®
Will open the performance of the evening, by tile i
introduction of GRAND PARADE of Equef- >
trian Performers of both sexes. ]
Matterly feats of Horsemanship, ;
By Mr. Lailfon and his pupils, with the whimsical *
feats of Mr Sully, in the chara&er cf cloian*
Still Vaulting,
By Messrs. Sully and Lailfon, wherein Mr. Lailfon
will perform several furprifmg feats as exhibited
at the French military f* 00l on the wooden
horse ; such as jumping over the horse as he
(lands lengthways.
Mr. Lailfon will introduce his favorite horse on the
PEDESTAL, in a pi&urefque attitude, his
horse (landing on three legs.
By desire, will be performed, the astonishing leap
through the HOGSHEAD, by a hotfe and his
rider on his back : with other Equftrian Feats
not particularized in the bills.
For that night only,
A COMBAT ON HORSEBACK,
With Er»ad-S words and Pidols, (never before
presented in America) by Messrs. Collet and
Lailfon, in which Mr. Lailfon will introduce
the much admired-manauvre of the
H O U L A N. .
Lofty Tumbling,
By Meflrs. Solly, Reano, and M'Donald ; particu
larly Mr. Sully, in the a«3ion ot turning in the
ait eight feet high, will expand an Umbrella.
The whole to concutfe (being the fe»ond represen
tation here) with the favorite and much admir
ed Hiflorical and Heroical Pantomiaie of
MIRZ A y LINDOR;
Or, The Flrjl Adventurers in America.
lnterfperfed with ferio'is and comic dances, as
performed with unbounded applause at the
t ' Grand Opera in Paris. The fcencs, drefles
and decorations incident to the Pantomime
entirely new.
In the firft ail of the Pantomime Mr. Collet
will play a beoutiful Concert* on the violin,
corapofed by the celebrated Violti.
Governor of Martinique, Mr. Pouble
n English Officer, Mr. Jaymond
Officer and corporal of the guard By Amareurs
Maitre d'Hotel, Mr. Yieillard
French Officers, Meflrs. Sully, Langley, Vande
velde, Lailfon, &c.
Lintlor, colonel of French reg.) Mr. Deuvilliers
Sailors and Savages by the reft of the company.
Six Negro Musicians, Meflrs. Sully, fen. Mar
tin, Savoye, Reano, &c.
Elene, (the Governor's wife) Miss TeflVire
Zoe, (Mirza's servant) Mrs. Rowfon
Mirra, Mrs. Douvilliers
A regiment of infantry, ByAmatenrs of this city
Hired troops, By ditto.
£jT Tickets to be had at the usual place, and of
Mr. C*llet,at his Coffcc-houfe, at the corner of the
Circus.
A Literary Treat.
JuJl pulTJhed, handsomely printed on writing
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, untitled
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
a sequel to the hiliory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln a series of letters to a friend, with tb« ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
Iran fait ions in America.
Th« following eitra<2 from the Clavis Allegorica,
(hews the principal characters that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
His Mother, the Cbnrch of England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His Mistress, the Old Constitution
His new Wife, the National Rcprefentation
Lord Strnt, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, Ncw-Hamplhire
John Codline, Massachusetts v
Humphrey Plow (hare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frsg, New-York
Julius Czfar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Penofylvania
Caffimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Wafliington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Tndigo, South Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, V ermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slave*
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
This popular and entertaining satirical histo
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasa great (hare of originality and a
bonnds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chsradterifes those
late political tranfadlions which have caused so
much uneasiness in America.
Sold by H. aud P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. jo, Marke' ftjeet.
June »6. §
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for fomc time pad in prepara
tions for removing into his present house, has
been under thenecellityof podponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
terms that he trulls will entitle him to the like pre
freence he has experienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion evpr imported i/ito this country, r >. printed
and will he delivered on application.
June 27. Saw 6w
Valuable Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette of the
United States,
No tig Cheiiiilt-S;reef,
[PRICE ONE *OLLAR AND FIFTT CENTS]
A FEW COPIES OF THE
Receipts 'and Expenditure^
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795, /
1 Bering the I. a test Peixod.to which an account
oo.n'be made up.
February §.
From the Farmer's Weekly Museum.
From the Shop of Mrjfrs< Colon & Spondee.
Address to Dril a Crusca, humbly attempted
in thtfublimeJlyle of that fajhwnabh author.
O TMOtt,
WHO. with thy blue cerulean hl&ze.
Raft circled Europe's brow with t.ove lorn praise ;
Whoso magic pen its J2feli<t lightning throws,
Ii now a sunbeam, now a fragrant rnfe.
ChiW of the dappl'd spring, whose green delieht.
Drinks, with her snow drop lips, thu dewy light.
Sa'> of the fonimer's Wand prolific rays, _
Who (beds her lofrieft treasure in thy lays;
Who fwetls her golden lips to trump thy name, 1
Which links to whispers, at thy azure fame. ,
Brown aUtuiTHinurs'd thee with her dulcet dews, .
And lurid winter rock'ii thy cradttd mufc.
SIASONJ AND SONS, AND SPANOL'D SYSTEMS ROLL,
I.iteatonAs vail, beneath thy " tlmtJ apt" foul. 1
Tim* win** it panting flight in harried chafe,
But siujps in dew dropt langour in the immortal
HACK*
O THOU,
Whose foul the nooky Britain scorns;
Whofewhite cfifts tremble,when thy gsnius storms.
The fallow Afric, with her curl'd domains,
And purpled Asia with her muslin plains.
And furgy Europe—vain —thy foul confin'd
Which fills altfpacr—and f'en matilda's mind !
Anna's capacious mind, which allagri e,
Contain'd a wildetnefs of woods in thee.
More happy thou than Macedonia's Lord,
Who wept for worlds to feed his fair ilh'a sword,
Fatigu'd by attic conquest of the old,
Fortune to thee a novel world unfolds,
Come mighty Conqueror, thy foes disperse ;
Let loose " thy epithets," those boos or vers* ;
Draw forth thy gorgeous sword of damaik d rhyme,
And ride triumphant through Columbia s clime,
Till sober lettered sense (hall dyingfmile,
Before the mighty magic of thy style.
What tawny tribes in dulky for»ft wait,
To grace the ovation of thy vidler (late.
What ochred chiefs, vermillion'd by the sword,
Mark'd by thy epithets, (hall own thee lord !
The punic Crc k, and nitrified Cho&aw,
The high bon'd Wabafh, and bland Hanging Maw;
Great Little Billy, Piambgo brave,
\yith pity's dew drops, wet M'Gilvray's grave.
What fonorousftrearuS meander through thy lays,
What lakes ftjal) Mess thy rich bequest of praise.
Rough Hockhocking, and gentle Chicago,
Th- two Miami's—placid Scioto.
How Will Ohio roll his Iprdly ftraam,
What bluemifts dance upon the liquid scene,
Gods how sublime (hall Delia Crufca rage,
When all Niagara cataracts tht paci !
What arts! Whit arms urknown, to thee belong !
What ruddy scalps (hall deck thy fanguin'd song !
What fumy cal'mets scent the ambient air,
What lovelorn Warhoops, CAPITALS declare.
Cerulean tomahawks (hall grace each line,
And blue iy'd wampun, glisten thro' thy rhyme.
Rife Dell» Crufca prince of bardsfublimt,
And pour on as whole cataracts of rhyme.
Son or the sun arise, whose brightest rays,
All merge to tapers in thy ignite blaze.
Like some Colossus, stride the Atlantic o'er,
A leg or cenius place on cither (hora,
Extend thy red rightjtf m to either world
Be the proud llandard of thy style unfurl'd ;
Proclaim thy founding page, from (hore to (kore,
And swear that sense in verse, (hall be no more.
DELIA YANKEE.
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions*
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, Sooth Second, and No 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring imports,
tion confiding of a variety of the latest and molt
approved l,.aw Book's, whirAi added to those alrea
dy on hand. forms the mod extensive colle&ion ev
er offered i<> thi* country. They th:; cfore
beg leavtto notice, that from the nature of their
conneiSiicnsip Dublin, they are enabled to felllrith
editions (ai they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 rois.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridge way's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicke j t'loyer's Probers
Pra&ice in the Ecclefiadical Courts ; Barton's
Trtatife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, 1
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Use» ; modern Reports, l» vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P.Rice expe<S t* receive by thefirft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Dornford and Ead's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence bjr Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16. ___
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
Mayij $
Jujl Publifoed,
And to be had of MtiTrs. Dokfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in t"ie
city,price one dollar, twiritv-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
i June zo. *6t
1 Bejl Englijh Crown Window Glass.
A well all'orted Invoiceofthe bed Englilh Crown
1 Window Glafi, of the following fizct:
10 by !
11 by 9
11 by 10 212 BOXES.
< 14 by 10
16 by I»
19 by 14 J
Likcwife frelb Rice, high proof Brandy, bed
. mess Beef, in half barrels.
5 Sail Cloth, No. r. to 8.
j Sherty Wine.
A few hundred weight of excellent Dutch Pistol
f and Rifle Gun Powcjer—and,
i Thirty Boxes Chocolate.
For Sale by,
Samuel Bred, fun.
No. 80, Sonth Third-flreet.
1 June ;t. eo
Just Imported,
In the (liip Rebecca, from St. Croix,
Prime Sugar and Rum
4c,000 wt. of Windward Idand Coffee
A quantity of choice Madeira Wine.
James Yard,
e SoutU fide Walnut street Wharf.
Jupe ; d M t
Bapk of North America.
July 1, 1797.
> At a meeting of the Directors this day, a di
vidend of Six Per Cent. was declared for the
last half year, which will b« paid to the Stock
t holders or their reprefentativesi at any time af
ter the toik inft.
July i, O"'-
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, Jvir 18. j
For the GazrTTE of the United States.
REMARKS OK
THE « FEAST OF REASON: c
At NF.tr-rORK. j
It is not pretended, that the Devils, after j
their expulsion from Heaven, held feftivals 1
to commemorate their descent into Hell— | „
the event was of too disastrous a nature to i J
afford cause for merriment. But our Jaco- (
bins, who, for impudence and wickedness, t
outstrip the Devils themselves, do not hesi
tate to assemble and rejoice at their own ex- j
clufion from the virtuous part of society, and ,
to express their impious wifheß, that all ho
nest men might become Devils, or what is
infinitely worse, Jacobins. Upon these cc- (
cafions, however, the chair is never filled ]
with one of the members of the society, but
by some weak man, who, to gratify his ri- |
diculous vanity, seeks for praise, where
praise is censure. That this charafter is (
ilrickly applicable to General Gates, who ,
presided at the feaft, cannot be denied,;—he j
always entertained an opinion, in which j
opinion he' now supported by the Jacobins, ,
that to his marvellous exploits we are in
debted for our independence. How far it ]
is confident with truth, to attribute the cap- ,
ture of Burgoyne's army exclusively to the
good conduft of General Gates, is submitted ,
to those persons, who recolleft the able as
sistance he derived from a Lincoln, a Stark,
and a .Glover—Nay, the laurels with which
the patriots at New-York are so desirous of
adprning the brows of their chairman, were
culled in part by Benedict Arnold, whose
health might have been drank at the Kinta
koy-s without fubjedling the company to the
charge of inconfifteney ! Let it also be re
memberedi for the honor of tbofe officers
who commanded under General Gates at
Saratoga, that they have never claimed any
(hare of the glory he acquired at the battle
of Camden.
The objetft of this feaft it seems, was to
afford his Grace the Duke of Chantilly,
an opportunity of explaining in confidence
to his bosom friends, the motives which
governed his conduct during his million to
the five titular Kings of France. If his>
Grace has been accused of rendering his
tedious and unthankful embajfy profitable to
himfelf—if he ha 6 been fufpefted of exert
ing his abilities and influence to promote the
views of the Dire&ory—the mode taken to
vindicate himfelf by appealing to the enemies
of his country ; I mean the United States,
was truly unfortunate. No man can ex
pe£t to cleanse himfelf from filth by plung
ing into a common fewer. But his Grace
(who never does things by halves) being
determined to juftify the executive for re
calling him ; he at the feaft aforefaid, sport
ed the following toafl as a proof of his
firm attachment to the independence of the
United States.—" Perpetual union between
the republics of America and France." Be
fore we pronounce sentence however upon
his Grace, 1 it will be proper to enquire into
the meaning of the word Union, as applica
ble to a political conneftion between two
independent sovereign States. Does it im
ply alliance ? No. Does it fignify harmony
or friendfhip ? No. What then is the true
fignification of Union in the cafe now before
u» ? One and indivisible. When Scot
land was united to England, it was called
the Aft of Union. When the convention ,
by their decree, annexed Belgium and Savoy
to France, it was'ftyled the Union of Belgum
and Savoy with France. Other examples
might be cited if necessary ; but it is con
ceived, that those already quoted are fuffi
cient to demonstrate the extreme solicitude
' on the part of his Grace, to relieve his coun
trymen from the trouble and vexation, inci
dent to governing themselves.
The fifth and twelfth toasts roared out at
the Feast of Reason, may be considered as
two of the many instances, in which ihe gen
uine republicans of the North, when inspired
by grog, have not only flapped themselves
in the fafej but insulted their brethren of
the South. The imprecation invoked upon
the Demons of tyranny and the enemies of
freedom, can only apply in this country to
: Jacobins and Cave holders.
> How the Patriots of New-York, who
: have no lamb now to prey upon, nor any
hopes of extrafting gold from sands, will
find means to pay for their dinner is difficult
to say—unless indeed the Tavern-keeper
consents to take a bill on Viftor Hugues,
payable out of the proceeds of American
cargoes condemned for trading under the
fanftion of treaties and the laws of nations.
COMMUNICATIONS.
' The faftion which is at this moment ta
king exttaordinary measures to prepare the
way for the introduftion of a foreign power
irito this country, have recourse to one sin
gular expedient. In order to reconcile the
public mind to a fubtniflion to French do
mination they fay " that the people detest
• the Britifti government and its meafnres; the
administration [of our government] on the
contrary love every thing British." Any
other assertion might be made with equal
propriety: It is as unfounded as the preten
sions of this faftion are to paCriotifisi. It is
not possible to conceive of greater turpitude
than that which aftuates these embosomed
enemies of our country. In order to en
courage aij invasion of the United States
they attempt to fever the people from their
government; failing in this, they publish and
continue a series of falfe intelligence, lies and
flanders, calculated to influence a nation pro
fefling friendfhip for us and in treaty with
us, to- change her system, and aftually to
make war on our essential interests—and fav
ored by distance and a concurrence of cir
cumflances, they op°rtly exult that their in
fernal machinations are pushed to the point
of direct ar.d g:enentl hostility end ;nvy£f:on !
Should the United States, which I eaveii
forbid, be unfortunately involved in a fo
reign war, whatever may be the issue, '.here A
is no truth tnore clear and certain than tl is, *"
that all the horrors and calamities incident
to such an event, will tie juftlj: chargeable
to the men J .vho coiifature th{ faftion that
is now laboring to weaken the union, and to
destroy the con.idence of the people in their
own government. "
Faßion always the fame.
"The faftiori which is now at work td
bring the people of the United States under
a foreign yoke, is COmposed of the fame
fort of men, with the addition of a number
of imported kindred spirits who oppofei
the treaty of peace in 1783—they then dit
graced the country in ftveral places by vio
lent resolutions against foroe of the articles.'
The people knew their ownintereils, and the
faftion was silenced.
After fuffering every species of misery and
disgrace for fume yeers, the federal govern
ment was adopted, flGtwithftanding the op
pofitioh of this faftion. Time and experi
ence have contradiflfd all their predictions.
The war in Europe pointed out the line
of duty, interest and policy for the United
States—Neutrality. The fafli&n opposed
this. Here they again failed. The people
by their representatives approved the moa
fure.
Our neutral rights were invaded ; war or
negociation were the alternative. The
latter took place, and the people were fatis
fied. It is true, the faftion printed a pe
tition at the feat of government,* and cir
culated it thro' the union, but the signers
were as a drop to the ocean, compared to
the American people. The friends of our
government and peace triumphed.
Wafliington retired from public life,
crowned with glory and the gratitude of the;
country-he had saved in war, and nurtured
in peace. The fa ft ion labored to promote
to the presidency a ftfcceffor ta. suit the
views of a foreign country- —but, riotwith
ftaflding their lies, corruption and terror,
the truly American interest again prevailed.
Adams was elefted in the 'face of ail that
hell and devils could do—Thus hss heaven
preserved the United States from foreign
influence and domestic traytors ; and it will
still preserve us.
* This was, with few, if any variations,
the only petition that was broughi forward,
throughout the United States, against the Bri
tish treaty. \
WANTED,
BT THE JACOBIN FACTION, \
An expert diforganizer, capable of as
signing plausible reasons for turning out of
office those of the public functionaries who
stand in the way of Revolutionizing"fcheme-.
One capable of devising means of fhaki g
off government and laws altogether, would
be preferred—as these have proved, from
time to time, extremely troublcfome to moil
of the fraternity.
N. B. Those hitherto hired for the a
bove purpose, having totally failed of suc
cess, none need apply, except he bring well
attefled certificates of his being defpeiate,
both in fame and fortune. ;
In cafe of success, he will be admitted
to a due (hare of the plunder. In the event
of a failure, " The republic" will abundantly
reward his labors, by a " Flour contrail."
Apply at the office of " Surgo at Profim
and Co.
From an English Paper. .
" Life is a jest, and all tlj'ir.g* (how ;t.
1 " 1 thought so once, and now 1 know it."
And really, Sir, we are the wittiest people
, on earth. Every thing serious or sacred is
1 I made a jest of—to come, to an untimely
■ i end, is only " to go off at the d?op—and
■ to die in one's bed is, '■ to kick the buc
ket." x To be on the verge of bankruptcy,
. a situation not the molt desirable, is only to
. be dished —and there are above fifty, pret
ty, witty, genteel and foft expressions, to
denote that imitation of brutality, druk
i kenne'ss. A man is affronted, if youttll
. him that he was drvn kon such a day ; but
1 he takes it as a compliment, if you infinu
; ate that he was " a little groggy,"—or
" " how came you so ?!! To accuse a gen
-1 tit man of adulter y would probably pro
f duce a challenge ; but to whisper that he
1 has had an " affair of gallantry" with
Mrs. —, is tie moil nioft pleasing flat
-1 tery. Should you be so very dull and stu
pid, as to accuse another of murder, it is
[ ten to one but he "brings you into the Court
of King's Bench ; whereas if you praise
■ him for behaving as a man or honor, when
he pinked the fellow whose wife or daugh
i ter he had debauched, he. will lhake hands
■ with you most cordially.
Indeed, fir, this is carrying things too far.
It is being witty overmuch, when by such
fine and polite expressions, we familiarize
ourselves to crimes, which never ought to
be mentioned without abhorrence. The
• proper fubjeft for the exercise of wit fe&ns
to be exhausted, and proper places are >
changed- for others not quite so proper.—
Hetice we may hear of a roar of laugh
ter in the Senats ; a general smile on
the face of the whole congregation in a
church ; and a good joke, which makes
even the judges laugh, in a CoußTof Jus
i Tice ! While our play houses are as dull as
. conventicles, and our plays contain every
! thing, "except that which provokes mirth. '
' To modern tragedies, indeed, I allow a
1 certain portion of the vis comica; but
, no thanks to the author, for it is the aud"-
1 ence who make their own entertainment
- here.
I
I From the Albany Centinel,
Americans who have listened to ttie de
, faraatory tales of a fa&ion in this country,
> a faiftion whose unceasing objeft it has been
- to depreciate the measures of our govern
• merit in the estimation of the people, are de
- fired to pay particular attention to that part
t of Mr. Monroe's reply to his addreflers in
! Philadelphia, in which he states that " hiswhole mryion was employed in a coviti nihil
cJort to promote harmony between the two
republics.'' Mr. Monroe then adds, "nor
W puriue this policy upon my arrival in
France From the impuHe.of my ctun head'attd
vty cWn bcarl oulys thebalis of my commu
nications to the ■ QoVfrrtriientj and of my
general conduit there, in those refpefts, Was
L;d by our administration, under whose
orders I afted, and by whole inftruftions I.
was guided." Thus far the citizen minister;
but what has been the language of faftion ?
this is the purport of it—that the govern
ment of our country has been afliduous in
i. the manifeftation of hatred and enmity to-
.vards Prance ; that it has Mnceallngly
fought to f'avQur Great-Britain, to the pre
judice of " our alius." Malignant and nn
founded as are these charges, and depraved
and alienated from love of country as are the
authors of them, yet a partial credence of
jucK statements has been impressed on the
minds of many. No truth whatever rests
upon a more solid balls than this—that it
has. been the object of the American Ad
ministration to preserve a ft rift and inviola
ble neutrality during the European war.
e t neutrality was not the objeft of France
whatever they profelfed, through the organ
' of their firft minister to this country, after
the commencement of the revolution, it is
welj known that while he was soothing our
executive with the sweet founds of" JlJler
reupblichis pocket contained instructions
to a roil fe the people to make a common cause
with France, if the governmentrefufed toun
furl the banners of war. In return for the
unwearied attempts on the part of America
to preserve animpartial line of conduft, what ■
have we experienced from the French J ;
what but an attempt to devide the people i
' from the government—the plunder and rob- ]
b<?ry of our citizens, even to a degree beyond <
the infamous piracy ©f the Bermudians ? i
And is France to be juftified, because we 1
have also been robbed and insulted by the I \
Britifii ? Or, is the juftification derivable j i
from the founds lilerty and equality : Too
much have these founds already warped the I
judgments ofmanyandledthemto overlookas y
abuliae conduft as ever one independent na- ]
tion experienced from another. It is hoped i
there are few, in our country who would not t
rejoice at the eftablilhment of the real liber- v
ty and happiness of the people in any quart- n
er of the globe ; and it is also hoped there a
are few who will be so far duped as to juftify fj
a power, which, while profefling the'eftab- n
lifhment of liberty as its objeft, in the plen- p
itnde of conquest tramples npon the rights, r
and insults the authority of a people who o
have a just claim to freedom and independ- «
ence. j
It is quite fafhionable with some to speak I
of those as attached to the Britifli, who re
present the conduft of the French towards vt
this conntry in its proper light : this may fr
be attributed to the spleen of party. An ft
American may deleft those who speak to as
undermine the pillars of our happiness, jn
without indulging an unjuftitiable predilec- ti,
tion for another foreign nation. J
Mr. M' Kean, in his address to Mr. Monto* U '
the la'e Minister to Frah;e, o'jfsrvei—" H
you, Sir, we have heard nfathtng for which an ar
Ameriean republican ought to Hhifh, from D(
any fouree of information which a canclid man f..
ought to believe."
—[t may be hoped that |the reports then
which have reached this country, have no re
foundation in truth ; reports that Mr. Mon.
loe's houfein Paris was the residence of Tom
Paine, and that under the roof of the late
thefaidTora Paine wrote the infa-
rroui letter which h» oirefled to G«orge ti .
Washington—and the no lefj infamous
letter to the Editor of the Aurora, in wkich •
John Adams, the Prelidtnt of the United
States, is treated by Paine "with the most
scandalous difrefpeft>—But should the muh .
of the to, not be coritefted, ' n
it may bediffijult to determine the ideas of
some perfsns with tefpeft to conduft which .
ought to excite a blnfh. It is helitved,
however,that there are very few honest repuh. t^(
itcaos in America who Would not think it ], a
' reprehenlibile in a Public Minister abroad, to f
give countenance to a vile defamer of the
most exalted charafters in the nation, and to a j',
shelter under his roof a fellow who would a j,
make uftf if jhe most opprobrious and abufivc
terms, when speaking of th» firft and second •
msgiftrates of thecountry.
' ' > »■" ■ .
By this day's Mail.
I CI 'P
the
NEW YORK, July 17. cin
Saturday afternoon the out houses of enc
Major Hunt, at Powles Hook Ferry, were no\
Itruck by lightning, and consumed, together Sta
with 3 horses, hay, &c.> Also, a brig, at '
Bowne's wharf had her topmast (hivered to tha
pieces. A row boat, with several people, offe
in attempting to cross the North river, over- ly 1
set and funk, fortunately no lives wfere loft, opir
Capt. Sands, of the Olive Branch, from thei
Bojjrdeaux, allures us that the number of gaii
Americans who have (hipped themselves on Tin
board French privateers, with a view of en- volt
riching themselves on the spoils of their beir
countrymen, is by no means small. Many tica
of these men hold commissions. This faft to f
would appear incredible) were it not confirm- j to t
ed by repeated testimonies. From this pir- bab
cumftance ii would appear, that, the brutal evdr
injuries to which our merchants are patiently ing
(uhmitting, is in 3 great meafttre nfcriba'ble- cpni
to the villainy of our owtt countrymen. ■ It tent
is a great misfortune to'otir country j*-that the
neitherpaw nor example are fufficrent to-cotin- lie.
teraft such fhockingdepVavity. Suchtranf- v'olu
aftions abroad, united to the most infemofts of v
projefts of felf aggrandizement among men witl
cjf consequence at home (but whose eonfe- 16,
quence ought to be made more public'by teen
placing them in gibbets) are fufficient to' state
hold A merica up to the. feoffs, contempt the
and ridicule of the world. Surety an honest "
man is a jewel of inestimable worth ! a 2..-
Minerva, direi
The Thermometer in the fhaie, on' Sa- pref
urday, between 11 and 12 o'elockfln be q
town, flood at 91 1-2 degrees. on a
'nor
PHILADELPHIA,
% TUESDAY EVENING, July 18.
Uas
hose We learn by the last ariival from Bor
is I " c^x > at there were but three American
lets ve '^ e^s at that pirt—that there was
on? g'eat talk among the people of a rupture
ern- between France and the United States.
s in j that in consequence of this, and by advice
to- American Consul, the Americans in
, g j y that city were quitting the place, The
pre- P eo ple of Bordeaux were however oppol'ed
nn- t0 a %var with the United States.
,vcd Jt was currently reported that the Consul
the as concerned in the privateers fitted out of
? of ® or^eau *> one of which had captured forty
the Prizes
tit INTERESTING TO AMERICANS.
\ d ' Extraft of a letter from Holland, April 3, J
a * 17.97-
ar " " I fend you by this opportunity a recent
- e : work of Mr. Necker, upon the French re
?an volution ;it has been some weeks published,
■tcr but I have not been able, until a few weeks
I 15 ago, to procure a copy of it here ; I have
3"r tlot yet had the time to read it through my
ter felf. I know not whether the government
ins of the United States have ever thought an
"J e attention to the literary part of European
m- politics a fubjeft of inftruftion to their mi
he nifters abroad. There is a certain class of
'ca publications which have a direst and im
iat portant conneftion with the course of events
h J and with the views of nations, courts, par
ties, faftions and individuals,; this is no
h- secret to yo*. In the present lituation of
"d our affairs, and the designs which at least
5 • one European power has with regard to the
" e j United States, it is neceflary to be upon the
he j watch for every gleam, that may cast a light
>le upon the systems which Comprehend us.
30 «My lltuatfon is not peculiarly favora
iie ble for this particular : I find it difficult to '•
as procure the publications which appear in
a- England, and very seldom can receive them,
-d until a long interval has intervened. Even
ot those of France do ji'ot reach this country :
r- very early ; and there are none that origi- 1
t- nate here. There is not any more certain ]
re and equivocal mark of the deplorable declen- 1
y fion of this nation in importance than this ; 1
S- not one publication of the least note has bee* .
t- produced by the Dutch press since I firft ar- 1
rived here ; and whenever I get intimation j
0 of any new work, I find myfelf obliged to t
1- wait for it, until it can be procured from f
London or Paris, from Lausanne or Bade, t,
k Hamburgh or Berlin. , p
!• "Asitis lam getting into a way which n
Is will perhaps supply me better and mote o
y speedily than I have been hitherto, and I c
n (hall constantly forward to you such works, I
0 as may appear to contain any thing interest- w
ing to America, with some of the obferva- m
■' tions which occur to me upon perusal, tho' o
lam sensible that this last will be the most »
unnecefiary part of the plan. g
• " Tojudge aceutately upon this work of f (
Necker, it is neceflary to remember who, p
" and what the author has been, and what he h
II poflibly has hopes of becoming again. I sent tl
1 you not long since the work of his daughter, N
Madame de Stael, and mentioned one ofher ft
1 objefti ip writing that book. She has now h
5 returned to Paris } let me'further observe, b
that it was by her exertions the decree in h:
favor of M. de Talleyrand, permitting his zi
return, was passed ; the fame party procured h'
the fame decree in favor of the general Mon- 01
' tefquiou : they are endeavoring to obtain aj
' the liberation of M. de la Fayette. Lally, e>
1 in London, who belongs likewise to the fame m
party, has lately published a book in favor m
of the emigrants, and in this instance, with pt
' the fame effeft.wfiich his former efforts have ic
• uniformly produced, of injuring his own
cause by his impetuosity. This whole par
' ty is detested by the preient Fi ench govern
' ment. Every one of the five direftors hatei ra
them, *ith the inveteracy of a neighborly tit
hatred ; I>ut the force of the opinion pub- in:
| lique, to which they are all equally slaves, Ci
has made a fort of compofitipn with them ca
abfohitdy necessary. They, on their part, uti
advance as far as they can, to meet the fyf- hi]
tcm of the day ; and thus you can observe, rel
in the midst of the nioft violent oppositions. th.
a disposition to conciliate benevolence, even thj
by courting prejudices, and facrificing prin- wl
ciples, all but those in which the views of thi
the refpeflive individuals are involved. This pei
circumftahce accounts for the great differ- fin
ence between the sentiments of Mr. Necker no
now publifned, and those of Madame de th<
Stael, in the work which I lately sent you. up
" She rery evidently paid her court in wa
that to the present direftory. This work Te
offers no composition to them, but apparent- we
ly looks forward to a different state of the the
opinion puhlique, when the execration agair.ft we
them may be as freely indulged, as that a- Be
gainst the Jacobins may be at this time, hoi
There are numerous indications in these unt
volumes, that that the author has an idea of apj
being called again to aft an important poli- for
tical part in France. I shall not undertake the
to state all the passages which have led me his
to this conclufiori, nor to discuss what pro- afii
bability there might be, that the thing will the
,eves happen, Considering the work as prov- as :
ing such a wi(h,"an<J hope on his part, it be- chi
comes, necessary to'remark, with special at- in t
tention,'. whst he fay* updn the fubjeft of felf
the United States, and-the American repub- abc
lie. It'is in the firft feftion of the fourth the
volume," -yvhich I think curious in this point in 1
of view. I fhall'requeft you to compare it wit
wi'tli a faft which I stated to you in my No. site
16, written from London ; the conclusion age
seems inevitable, that the plan which I then at r
stated 'to you as ex'ifting, is not confined to A
the present governing power in France. taft
" But there appears to prevail at present you
a 2efi'gri ftiil more pernicious, as it strikes the
direftly at ofir national union. From the at t
present conduft of the it cannot veni
be queflipned, that they are determined up- whe
on a war with the government of the United chi!
~ ttstM. There are alia numerous proofs that
in the._prdfecution of this war";they ?rre pre
paring to derive fuppo/t from a part of the
American peopk. The policy upon which
thev proceed, appears to be this.; that the
I. Atlantic, or at lead the eastern states, c?n.
_ not be governed by the Influence ,of France,
> or - therefore, that a foutheni republic mud
can f° r med, in alliance with France, to serve
was 33 a balancc , a gamit the others ; but in order
;ure to form this republic, France must make
war against the prefenf government of the
rice Un k* d States, in the progress of which flie
sin C f," fe " d an arm 7 to support and assist her
riie . 01 " ew republic, and hereby they
led lwo purposes at once; that of
weakening by division a rising power which
Jul ey b ' ;hc ;.y ruf ?%n am} j,jalou<y ; and
of that.of difencumberiog. themselves from a
rty C r" '^f r . ?~ ort,Qn '«* <*<> army, the return
of which into France thfey already dread,
fhey wi/h to form a republic in America,
they are now forming a republic in Italy,
k • to provide for the fubiiftence of their troops,
3> or at least to be themselves rid of them and
thus you will observe that they step towards
;nt war with America, regularly as they step
re- towards peace with the house of Austria ;
sd, they are constantly in expeftation of this
ks peace, and it will probably be made in the
ive course o/ this Ipring or the following fum
iy- mer.
:nt "In one of my letters I wrote that they
an had no idea of fendihg an army to America,
an and I formed my opinion from the state of
11- their marine, and the impoflibility they are
of under of restoring it for a long time. But
n ~ various circumstances now lead me to a dif
its ferent opinion ; and with refpeft to the rna
ir- nne, they are preparing toturnall their exer
no tion towards it, as may be collected clearly
or from the pamphlet of Theremin, which I sent
lit you a few days ago. You will find in the
lie newspapers which I ferd you at this time,
*e that Thomas Paine has left Paris, and is go- i
, in ? to America; another of the French
papers fays he is going with Mr. Monroe
a " "to repair the mrfcWef dorte by the admi- 1
to migration of Washington.
in " The plan of the western republic, in
*, alliance of France, to oppose against the !
:n rising republic of the United States, must .
y have been formed as early as the time of Ge- 1
i- net's inftruftions; how much earlier it was '
in formed, it is perhaps not necessary to conjee- J.
i- ture—that Paine was in the secret, originally,
» seems probable—that he is now going to r
» America to promote the design, I firmly n
r- believe. I fee in some late American pa
n pere, that he wrote to Bache last summer,
0 the necellity which the French goveniment
n found themselves under to dijlingui/b between
!> the American government and the people; his S
pamphlet against the late President, I have E
1 not seen, but am told, it is another addition
e of Adet's appeal to the people. What his
t conduct will be, is easily forefeen. The
, French government calculate* that in the
- war they intend, the eastern states will fide S
- with the government; but that eur western
country, and perhaps the southern states,
t will fide with the.m; Paine, therefore, is
going "pourfctner ce: etincelles d'emlrafcment." &
t for which madame Roland jjidgedhim so pro- ®
, per.Paine,indeed,ispurftrnijrfmVocation: he
: has no country—no afifeftions that constitute d'
: the pillars of patriotism, but going with n !
. Mr. Monroe! Where can the imangination
• ftopin reflefting upon these things; can fe
' Monroe? Can?—l hate done. I remem- C
, ber the late President's advice, not to admit B
i hastily, fu(j)icion& against the designs of citi- fe
> zensindiftants partoftheunion jandlwillyet H
I hope, that a formal purpose to fever the um- 1"
• on into parts, by the help of a French war D
i against the whole, is at least not extensively T
extended or known, and, that it will never co
meet.with encouragement or tupport from fe'
men who ought to consider union as the an
principle paramount to all others in the pol- 5 l
icy of every American!" be
lal
From Qukbfc, June 29.
On Sunday last, 25th inft. Jacques Per- bo
rault, Pierre.Voyer, ■ JofephJDe Rome, E- El
define Tetu, and Gonfague Berthelot, hav- wl
ing made up a party to go to the Falls of eri
Choudiere,' took for that purpose a bark th<
canoe, in which they ascended the rapids caj
under favor of the tide, which was then Nc
high. About J o'clock, fettir(g out on their of
return, they made an attempt to get over Ne
the breakers, then very strong by reason of da;
the tide being low. At the vary moment Ri'
when they had escaped the danger, one of
them cried out that they were all going to Jol
perish ; this affrighted the others, who, lo- Gi!
sing all courage ; ceased rowing. The ca- out
noe left to itfelf was quickly operturned by ftii]
the violence of the torrent, and the bubbling 4, 1
up of the waters. The young Perrault fro:
was the firft who fell overboard, Voyer and da)
Tetu followed him, Benhelot and De Rome brij
were the last overturned, they holding on Jul
the stern of the canoe : of these five, four out
were swallowed up in thetorrent, the young Bo
Berthelot alone rose, and fortunjftely laid in c
hold of the canoe, by which he held firm, del]
until the current drove him on shore. He 1
appljed instantly to a man at the ferry house (hip
for assistance, unfolding at the fame time to
the misfortune which had befallen him and Shi
his
assistance—this latter would not even cross Brij
the river, though offered a reward, assigning Ric
as a reason that he was if raid co leave his Sail
children alone ; so that this young man, aboi
in the fad situation io wnfcli-he found him- ned
felf, unmindful of the dangers which he was Mei
about to encounter, and iffefted only by Ali(
the misfortune which had happened, set off ; 801 l
in his weak canoe, whiih he had ballasted Aui
with stones, and croflei the river oppo- Bay
site to cape Rouge, wterehe tooka carri- land
age, and reached towi about nine o'clock frig;
at night. frig;
We cannot but deplore this unhappy ca- off (
taftrophe which has deprived society of four forn
young men, who were accounted amongst fore
the choicest and most polished of our youth ; Spai
at the fame time we hope that this fad ad- I:
venture will serve as a lesion to those parents teeri
who through a want of irmnefs, fuffer their 42,
children daily to becom; the prey of a dan- Aur
that ger, which the tvant of experience prevents
pre- them from being sensible of. The only con
tne folation that remains to, their foad parents
hich is the regret of the whole city at the fate of
the the*e unfortunates. Notwithftandmg re
can. peatecl efforts, the pody of the young°Per
nce, rault is tl.,' only one which has been found.
Tiuft
erve PRICES OF STOCKS.
rder 6jierCe fl t. 16/ a } Utn
iake * P tr c * nt " 10/3 t» 4 / c Jt 'ff
the ' c ' errc<l 6 P er Cent.
BANk I dviJend off 14 a ij per ct
' ne
her North America, 4j
ht.y Insurance Comp. N. A It a res
of rVflnfylvama, 4a .5 per ct. ajv
■ , , COURSE OF EXCHANGi.
On I.ondon, at days par
ant ' at Co days ,
n a at 90 days tz
urn Amsterdam, per guilder
ad. • 50 days
'ca, \*wm
ilv, GAZ-ETTE MARINE
md Port of Puiladelphia.
I A R R I V £ D , n * v c
[ ep S Sh; P Fame ' Wilfori, Malaga' 49
New York, July 17.
cu- nr ARRIVED. DAYS.
[m _ Ship Olive Branch, Sands, Bourdeaux 01
Brig Pearl, Fofdick, do. 65.
ley Jane, Cameron, Shelburne
ca, From the Olive Branch's log-book.
0 f Sailed from BQurdeaux the 21 ft April,
are 9 n I May was boarded by the Dart
lut K' l letter of marque, treated politely.
|Jf- t ' lc 9 t ' 1 June spoke with the ship Hen- \
ia- r y' and rom Salem, bound to Bordeaux, ,
er- out 12 . da y s - On the 4th July spoke.with >
rly t ' le ' ,ri ? Hannah, from Surinam, bonnd to '
:nt ®°^ on » out 40 days, Ihort of provisions, '
h e w "° had two (hips company on board
lf) hove too, went on board and took out nine'
, o ' people, the crew cf the (hip. Commerce of
;h New-rork, Godfrey Wood, from Liver
oe pool, bonnd to Baltimore, who was taken
li- tlle privateer Spear Eagle, capt. I a
Barry, and sent to Porto Rico. 1 r
; n The /hip Kihy, from the Me of France, ! F
le was also captured by the privateer Spear '
(I Eagle, capt. Barry, in lat. 13, and carried
e _ into Porto Rico.' The time is not recol
-3S letted. Captain Barry is determined to .
tak e every American vessel he can find and
fwears- he will accomplish his designs at the
0 risk of every thing. (He is well known to 1
many gentlemen in New-York.) i
i- R
From the Bpfton Commercial Gazette.
t. t<
it Boston, July 12. ai
n _ ARRIVED. DAYS. W
Is Ship William, Wales, Lisbon jo
e Brig Hannah, Brown, Surinam 50 ~
n Caty, Carter, Jamaica 37
s St. Peter, Nelson, Naples 70 r ~
e Frederick, Bennet, Valentia
e last from Gibraltar 41 J
e Sch'r Industry, Tuck, Martinique 22 th
n Hawk, Gifford, St. Michael's 35 ta
1, Schooner Industry left at St. Pierre's, Ja
, (hip Jofephus, Wilkin, Philadelphia ; brig to
'' Anthony, Miller, do. brig Mercury, Smith, _
Baltimore. ,0
e Sailed from St. Pierre's, 19th June, un
e del convoy of the Woolwich 44, in coitlpa- t ],
Iny with the following American vessels : A t
! brig Phebe, Taylor, New-York ; brig Jo- de
1 feph, Wait, Portland ; brig Commerce, f
Gardner, Baltimore ; schooner Guardian,
t Blackwell, do. (loop Nancy, Mitchell, do.
. schooner Industry, Russell, Salem ; do. f
t Harmony, , Hartford ; four fch'rs V
. belonging to Plymouth, captains Taylor, let
f Davy, Holmes and Harlow. 23d —capts. T1
r Taylor, Blackwell, and Gardner, left the ™
■ convcry—24th, lat. 22, 9, N, long. 60, 33, J o ff
1 schooner Harmony, Industry, of Boston, ' fcr
and (loop Nancy, left the convoy. July j Ca
sth, spoke fliip Columbia, from New-York !
bound to Hamburg, 3 days out, all well,
lat. 38, 50, long. 61.
Brig Hannah, June 29, lat. 57, 50, was
boarded by a French privateer natned the
Efpiegle, commanded by citizen Barron, El
who, after fcarching his papers and plund
ering him of live stock, &c. put on board
the crews of two vessels, one American,
captain Godfrey Wood, from Liverpool for
New-York; and the other, a Britilh letter (
of marqut?, captain --Pitt. Dnmimee ' thxc
New-York, who had been captured a few the
days before—the vessels were sent to Porto c ' al
Rico. Spoke no merchantmen.
Brig Frederic, June 7, spoke schooner ' °
John, captain Lovell, from Cape Ann, fifrr
Gibraltar, in fight or the rock, 47 days L ]
out. July 3, long. 62, 30, lat. 41, spoke
(hip Jane of Baltimore, 8 days out. July D<
4, lat. 63, 49, spoke brig Mary, of Boston, *
from New-York, for Havje de Grace, 9 pC p
days out. JuJy 7, long. 65, 15, spoke
brig Abbey,from Malaga, for Philadelphia,
July 9, spoke Nabby, of Wifcaffet, 3 days 4t
out. June 3, parted with (hip Lark, of ~,
Boston, captain Munroe, bound to Madeira, *
in company with captain Billings of Phils- '
delphia. !l!'
Brig St. Peter left at Naples, 2Cth March,
(hip Clopratra, Seton, belonging at, bound nf 1
to N. York, to fail in about three weeks. ' urr
Ship Hibernia, Young, of Newbury-Port, cent
arrived*tlNaples,from Alicant, 25th March, Tl,
Brig A. B. C, Le Pelley, belonging to our
Richmond, to fail in about 3 weeks ; brig a
Sally, Douglas, was to fail for N. York in
about 3 weeks.—Ship Perseverance, Ken- J
nedy, of Chai'lefton,and a brig belonging to fe
Messrs. Neil and Getty, of Boston, were at
Alicant, April 26.—Brig Triton, Isaacs, of D'l
Boston, was at Barcelona, April 15 Sch, ] ut ia
Aurora, of New York, came in to Gibralter
Bay, May 24. —June 5, off the Western Is
lands, fell in with the Mahonnefe Engli(h
frigate on a cruize, in co. with two other
frigates, belonging to Ad. Jarvis's fleet, then tic
off Cadiz ; the officer who boarded us in
formed that the Admiral, about a week be
fore had sent into Cadiz, 9 Transports, with
Span!Hi prisoners, taken at Trinidad.
He mentioned there being French priva
teers off the western Islands. July 1, lat. w
42, 20, N. long. 62, 10, spoke schooner
Aurora, Bennetj 16 days from Boston, all Ju
ente well. Julj-, 2, lat. 42, 29, N. long. 6-> W«
con- fpoie IhipMartha, belonging and Lad •„>
eof K 60 frptn Boarder.
' £ • * amc " lw to Windward, two large
Prr" J'P B ,'. " n^ r fpoke by on?, rte
■ Eng.-ilh frigate Prevoyante, had loft her
lUd - f T maft f d r all h «- topmasts, in a heavy
Th e other was also a
m £ ate ' whlch h? ' d !'«" entirely drafted.
For Bourdeaux,
Ct The Ship
E C. Ho,
i-.Tfyij)ftCaptain O. Boys,
adV AT Wiling an/Francis' wharf;
or tt 15 da> ' s ' F ° r freijht
FRANCIS COPPINGER,
0 , , No- 1 31, South Front Street.
1 -IVJI dm.
No. 183.
D'ljlrid of Pennsylvania, to -wit :
.y s.. l. s. L^ E ** that on the
40 a o i , . da V of June, in the twenty
W firfl year of the Independence of the United
u > § .ji-n*?*™*' J AMts WOODHOUSK, of
the la.d diftritf, hath deposited in this office the
is. tl! '® Ql * book, the right whereof he claims aa
01 ,n .! ile words following, to wit :
6 C . e *°" n ? Chernift's Poxktf Companion,
\ being a Defcripticti of a Portable Laboratory,
rae containing a Pbilofophical r.pparatus, and i
•1 S reat "umber of Chemical Agents, bv which
nl. any person may perform an cndlefs variety of
art ' amusing and inljrudling Experiments, defipn
ly. (( 5 , use of lad,ies and gentlemen, and
■n- ' nt . en <*'l to promote the sultivation of the
• • " Science of Chemiitry in fha United States nf
fU ' Tt mer iS a ' ByJ AMes Woodhoiise, M. D.
1 !! I' o^5 Jr of Chemillry, in the Unverfity of
to rennfylvania, Prcfide,nt of the Chemical So
ls, " ciety of Philadelphia, Sic.
- « " P r , crent ever V that ii not denomi
ne n -' tc - Cheiuifiry, is but a fuiall part of a fyf-
teni oi natural knowledge.
>r T r Prieply on Air."
In conformity to the ail of <he Congress of the
en JmtedStates, intituled, " Anaftft>ribe encour
>t. a<em«nt of Learning, by feenring the copies of
RTfcps, chins, and books to the authors and pro
e, P nttcrsr| f such copies, during the times there
ar in mentioned.
[ d SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerkof tbe
,1 , Diftri<a of Pennsylvania.
,* J u! y rß - d^t—wstf
Co
i( l Ihe History of Pennsylvania,
le Ey KOJBERT PROUD,
o T S ii the pref», and will be published,
-*■ with all convenient expedition, by Zicha-
RI AH Poulson, jun. No. go, Qiefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propofaU, until the
s. ; work is ready for the fubferibers.
° i _i UI LL 8- "wtf
7 ! Public Notixe is hereby given,
O ; at June term, 1797, a petition was
| X presented to the Court of Common Plejs,
held at "\ork Xown, in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the inftince sf James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer-
J tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
i, James Morrifon, and John Sample, executors
g to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
~ »cres of Land, situate in Meiullen
township, in the county of York —All per
sons who have any objeflions to make to the ob
jeil of the fiid petition are desired to attend at
- the Court Houte, in the town of York, on the
- itb day of September next, otherwise the loft
- deed will be fapplied.
, I JOHN EDIE, Clerk.'.
, 7»b 18- eotS 5
Stolen or Strayed,
• the tzth iii:l.out of the Commons of Phil i
-5 delphia, a brindled Cow, marked with the
( letters I.N. S. in <iiffer:nt places, a white face
which extends over one of her eyes, a little whi e
on the hack near the rump, her body and end of
j her tail white, apiece cut off the under part of her
' off ear, and the lop cut offher near one. Anyper
, ; fen returning tlie said Cow to John Simtsom,
, Catharine-street, will be handfomelv rewarded.
; I J»'y '8- ~t
This Day is Published,
BY Mc.lT. Dobfon, Carcv, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Bookfcllers,
Prue One Dollar and tweniy-fivc cents.
Elegant y pintcd on Wove paper, and Hot
frcJTtd,
Bv John Thompson,
A V(£WOF
The Constitutions
Of the fevcral States with eseh other, and witfi
rife United States : exhibiting in Tables
the prominent fe atures of eaeh Constitution, and
clalhng together their most impsrtart provifiens,
unuer the several heads of administration ; with
Notes andOfcfervatioiis.
I3y WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4ths of a dollar.
February 6 mw f
ror Sale,
4t the Office of the Gazette of the. United
States, No. 119, Chefnut-ftreet,
The lafi Report of the late Secretary
of the Treafuryj being a brief hiflorv of the
llate of financial -oncer,s of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpe<s\ing the weflem in
furretflion : Containiug many faiils and cir
cumflances no where else to be found. to
cents.
Ihe Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our minister in France. 37 ft cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the. year
1795-
A few copies of th'e volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts. .
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lutidnin Geneva. 12 x-r cents
WALKER iff
No. 73, South Fkont Street,
Have fur Sale,
Virginia Tobacco, of the Richmond inspec
tion
350 bbls. Virginia Flour and Middlings
500 bushels Wheat
5 calks Ginfang.
ALSO,
Three cases Rouens Linens, entitled to the
drawback
2Co pieces Bandannoes, and
xoocsdies India Sewing Silk.
June :htw"tTown Lots.
A TOWN named BEULA, one mile square,
bribg laid out on the Blacklick Creek, Som
erict County, Pcnbfylvania, Lbts therein of 5S feet
by 135 feet atenow felllnjjat ten dollars each ;
their litrotion in the town to.be determined by
billot lxfi/te the firll of AuguS, and deeds for the
frrr.e will be dcliverd by ti.e fubkriber before the
fcrlt of Odober n^xt.
MORGAN J. RHEES.
No, 177, SouthSecond-ltreet,Philadelphia.
Ths purchafersoriotsin Bern.a have the following
pr°fje4ls of appreciating thtir property :
1. It is remrte irom any other town, and sur
rounded by great bodies of excellent land, capable
of producing every kind of grain and vegetables,
and is without doubt one ef tbebeft grazing coun
tries in the Vnited States.
In point of health the situation is not exceed
ed by any on the continent.
' 3- BeGdes numerous springs jnd runs, of the fin
eft quality, there is a creek for water works (011
which mills are now building) running through the
town,
4 The public road from Philadelphia to Pittf
h'irgh will go through it, which beinf moreJevel
end nearer than any other rout must become uni
reffally travelled : aided by the navigation of Ju
niata and Conemaugh, goods may be conveyed at
lead a or 3 dollars per cwt. cheaper from the for
mer (9 the latter place, than by the old road thro'
Bedford.
5. Being in the centre of a fleuriihing fettle
meat, «nd taking in the shortest portage between
the eastern and western waters, it is likely to be
come a deposit for stores, a manufacturing town,
and a feat of justice. Besides the old fettl.rs, up
wards of one hundred emigrants have fettled in the
vicinity of Beula, since last Oitober, and many
more have engaged to join them thisfummer.
6. A Land-Qflice for fupply>ing ai3u.il settlers
with farms to a considerable amount, and in vari
ous situations, will be immediately opened in the
town. The proprietors of land in the circumja
cent country art felicited to fend their drafts and
t:rms of fate, or leafing, to Thomas Jonis, Sur
veyor, in Beula, who will give security for any
trust reposed in him : with such co-operating aid,'
the progress of the settlement wi 1 be the more ra
pidly advanced and extended to diftam townships.
7. A public library for the benefit of the fettltrs,
will be established in the town, towards laying the '
foundation of which, upwards of one thousand
volumes are already purchased and principally feat
forward.
8. Two hundred acres of land adjojning (he
town, bv-fides lots and fubferiptions,will be applied
tp support a miniller and j.i eceptor, capable of
teaching the ufeful and liberal arts.
9. After defraying nectffary expences, the mo
ney arising from the present sales will lie laid out in
public buildings—A place of worlhip, school
hculr and library room, are the firft objcSs.
I«. Every profefiiotial man and mechanic, on
condition ot building ahoufe with a stone or biick
chimney, and residing in it, before the firft of No
vember next, will b« entitled to four lots gratis,
f. tAfurcver from gr»und rent. Five and ten acre
out lot; may likewise be obtained on reasonable
terms.
The two central streets in Beula are 100
feet wide, and the others 80 feet. Reserved fquarcs
ond other accommodations must add to the health
and beauty of the place.
July 6. v jr
GABRIEL DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
s.e*s leave to inform the public that be hal re*
moved bis Shop to AO. 31, South Third Jireet,
AND HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
(Neatly bound and lettered, price 1 dols. »5 cts.)
Ihe .Adventures of Telemacbus.
French and Engtilh, 1 vols. umo.
AMONG the books which daily fall into the
hands of the youth of both sexes, none
have a higher claim to their attentionthan Tele
macbus. The most interesting lelTms are here
conveyed in the vehicle of an interesting Poem,
replete with the fintft touches »f the true pa
thetic, ahd embeltfhed with all the graces of a
beautiful style. The fatal effetfls of indulging
the pillions are exemplified in the most Unking
manner ; and the happiness attending inno
cence and virtue painted in the liveliefl colours.
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice; whatever can enlighten the understand
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart* it to be found in this interesting work.
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Dictionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all the countries and isl
ands in the known world ; showing their lati
ude, foundings, and stations for anchotage ;
with a particular description of the feveralßays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the shape and appearance at sea, of the fev«-
ral Headlands, Isthmuses, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, ana whatever is of use or impor
tance to the Master, Pilot, Commaim*., or
Seaman of any fiiipor veflcl, in navigating the
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample DirefHons for failing into or out of the
different Ports, Strait*, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding
dangers on the various and extended coasts ; in
whiehmore than twelve thousand diftinifl names
of placet, are treated of and explained. With
a correct set of Charts, a vols. Bvo. price 6 dols.
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM,
This has been pronounced the most ufe
ful and the cheaptft bookpublilhed in America.
June 21. dtf-
Muftcal lnjlrwnent Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portrhlr grand,
fid:-board, pier table and square piano forte
make r from London, returns thank* to hie friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that hy hisalfiduity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance
cf their favors. Piano fortes made on the newest
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp stop, which he Battels
himfelf will ( ue found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
' ed, and twenty per c«nt cheaper. Atry inftru
.msht purchased of him, if cot approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical instruments made,
uned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the motl, reasonable terms, l, r
ready money only.
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May it. , &jm.
{TTate trials.
Sold by W.Young, Bookseller, No. s*, South Se
cond-ftreer,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Yocno has for file, a general r fTortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
cge, well alforted, and entitled to th~ drawback if
ixportcd. "» July 7 —*3t
20 hhds. of Neia England Ru/ti,
FOR SALE By
Samuel Br°.ck, jun.
No- 89, South Thirci-ftreet.
July 14. ' eo6t
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
jfn/i Imported,
In theJhips William Peiut and Star, from LohJoh, and
noiv opening by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
Market itreet—
An elegant alTortment ot silk, cotton and thread
Stocking*
" Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
pantaloons, &c. &c.
Likewise, a handsome aflortment cf men's, wo
men's, and children'sfafhionable Hats, fuitaW for
the Season.
A considerable quantity of low and mi-Idle priced
Hat s aflorted in cases, intended for country Hares,
May *3- taw
George Dobfon,
No. 25 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per Ihips William Pcnn, Star,
and Diana, from Loudon,
5-4 Super London Chintz, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinettsaijd Dimities.
Fathionable Waiftcoating, newest patterns.
Ribbands well aflorted, in fraall trunks.
4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and British Book-mus
lins.
Fancy Cloaths and Caflimers.
The whole to be dilpofed of cheap for Cafti
or approved Notes of a ftiort date.
June 14, '97. d.tf.
City of Wafliington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificentdwelling-houfe xo,ooo dollars,
St caih 30,000, are jo.aou
1 ditto 15,000 & cast 15,00# 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 S cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafo 10,000" »o,o»o
1 ditto 5,060 8c calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 10,000
1 cash priie of *O,OOO
» do. 5,000 each, • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
10 do. 500 - - ie,soa
00 do. xoo - • 10,000
»oo do. 50 • 10,000
400 do. *s - 10,000
1,000 do. to - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 - 150,0e0
16,739 Prizes.
Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavourthofewho may take a quan
tity ol Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the 1a st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 th« last
but om :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lcttery will afford an elegant specimen »f
the private buildings to he ereited in the City of
Wathingion—Two bcaujiful designs are already
leleAtd for the entire fronts on two of the public
fquaret; from these drawing? it ispropofed toereA
two centre and r our corner buildings, as soon as pos
sible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be ereded within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two DireA
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL SLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Boflon ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
raws
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publilhing, by fubfeription, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the original inflitution and
settlement ot that province, under the firft propri
etor and governor* William P*nn, in i6Bi» 'till
after the year 174 a; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
Rcfpe&ing the W.PENN,
Prior to fehe grant of that Province, and the reli
gions Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES,
more WEST-NEW-JERSEY, ard the
3K*ti.m<-ntof tS*TOTCHW-SWJEB£S .DELA
WARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general stale, in which it flmiuftied,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770; The
whole including a varietv of things, ufeful and in
teresting to be known, refpe&ing that country inearly
time, Sec. Mfith an appendix.
Written principally between the years i7;6,and 1780,
By Robert Proud.
" Pulchrum efl benejacere reifmblica, ctian benedicere
haud abjurdum. ejl t ttl pace vel bello clarum Jieri licet**
' , « c al. Catalin.
••Sedcum plerique arbitrentvr res be/licas majores efe
quam uibanas, mmuendae/l hM opinio"
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law.)
44 WILLIAM PENN, thegreat legislator of the
Quakers, (in PennfyWsnia) had the success of a con
queror, in eftabliOiing and defending his colony, a
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing the fvvord ;
the goodness of the most benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubje&s as his own children ; and the tender
ness of an universal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without diftin&ion ot fe6l or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
lonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the prote&ioa and emolument of the State*"
Essay on Toleration, by Arthur Q'Letry.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be primed in two o&avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in foeep and
calf, for the choice ol the fubtcribers; 00 paper limi
lar to that of the conditions, as pubtijked in the Subjcrip*
tton papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firit, and a map or
(ketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
Ill' The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calf; —one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubferibtng, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firft, volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When ontf thoufaud copies are fubfaribed
for, the work will be Dut to press and finifhed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jun. Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins. Printer," and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by Ji»hn P. Pleafantsand George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore j and by other pcrfons both
in town and country*
February SB. tu&f
45.000 pieces of Nankeens
150 boxes brown Havannah Sugars -
lmporial Hyson Teas
17 tubs Quick Silver
Sail Canvas, No. 1 a 8
A large assortment of Nails,fh.'.rp ami-flat point*
Queens Ware, well assorted in crates and hhds.
ssfsar^" 4 }
TenerilTe Wine in hhds. and pipes
Bottled London Porter in tierces
Fine Yollow Faint, dry in calks
Writing Slates in boxes and bundle.!
A box of Ink Stands and Note Preifes
Manchester Goods in cliefts
3 trunks black Sewing Silk
6 tons of Sheet Lead
Dell Liverpool Coal, and
A quantity Wine Bottles
For Sale by
f inlif Nicklin, & Co.
Juue 14. itawtf
WiNiro'w Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to ig by 14,
By the Tingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
S'ore of the Subfcriben, corner of Arch and Front
ft/eet.
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, J"Pe9, >797»
Samuel & iMiers fiflier?
No. 27; Dock-street,
HatjejuJl received per Abigail, Balcocl, from
Belfast,
IRISH Cambricks, in boxes of 40 pieces
and 80 patches, each sorted up to gf
sterling per yard.
7hey have alfa received
7-8 & 4-4 Irish Linens Well assorted
Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be fold for ready money, or fliort
credit, oh moderate terms; together with
a general assortment of Spring Goods as
usual Also,
Hunter's Pipes in boxes
An assortment of QueeW Ware in crates
An assortment of GTafs Ware in casks and
crates
T.Crowley, Millington, Steel
Cargo & London particular Teneriffe Wines
Lisbon Wine of excellent quality
Superior Sherjj Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales fine Cloths neatly assort
ed, and two bales aflorted Flannels, «d be
fold per .package.
June 9. 3 taw 6w
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have for sale at their Jlore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer Son, Pine-Jlreet Wharf,
A Quantity of
Madeira Wines
In pipee and half pipe*
adeira W-lnutsand Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Also,
»J Puncheons, second and third proof, Weft-
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy
They have constantly on hand and for sale,
French Burr and Country Mill Stotiei of various
fixes, and a general assortment of Boultiug Cloth of
the best quality, both American and Foreign ma
nufacture. The former having proved, from se
veral years rxp, riejirf of a number of millers in
different parts of t>e United States at lead equal,
and in many inflances fiiperior to the European
Cloths, we hops the manufacturer, Robert Daw
Tori, will meet with liberal encouragement io this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent exclufive right of making and
vending Smiting Cloths on his improved plan for a
number »f years, and they are fold only by him
felf in Lancaster, state of Pcnnfylvania, and by
the fubferibera in Philadelphia. •
June 14 d
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A OF PRIM£
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Casks
A few Quarter Cherts best
Frefti HyTon aid ) , c
Hyson Skin 5 TIiAS
Muscovado Sugars in Hogsheads, and
Coffee in Tierces <
March 7. || rf
lAKDing- 7
From on board fchponcr Daphne, captain
G. W. faggi Htfpaniola,
61,000 wt. Sugar,
53,060 Coffee
FOR SALE BY
F. COPPINGER,
No. 221, Souti Front-Ilreet,
Who has also en hand,
Claret in hhds. and cafe?
Rice
A quantity of Bristol Bottles
A cafe of Cambrics
Cloths and Caflimeref.
July 5. d6t.
For Sale,
That well known face, called Vandegrih's
F » R R Y,
ON Nefcaminy-creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, cn the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a larga two ftery stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story flone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threshing
floor, and fqme out buildings—also a well of
good and an e»cellent ice House. On
this place molt el/gant situation fora gentle
man s feat, t»mmartArig a View of the Nefham
iny to its jumHuini wjili the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jtrkyihore. It has the privilege
of one half »ht toJVeceived from the bridge.
For terms appV to the Sobferiber,
40RDECAI LEWIS.
May 24. . itawtf.
w FURNITURE
NOW Selling ess Cheap, Consisting of
Side-boards, ccnvmode, front, and farti
Cornet card tables, circular and square do.
circular and square bureaus, de/ks and chairs
of the very newest fafhion, bedsteads, and
two very complete secretaries, and book-cas
es. The above articles may be had on ad
vantageous terms, as the owner is about de
clinirtg. the bufinefa. Persons wishing to
purchase are dellred to apply immediately,
in Second a few doo-s above Walnut Street,
; direftly opposite the city tavern,
! June 27. *d3t.
FOR SALE,
Tbefollowing Valuable Property. ,
A VACANT Lot, situated on the east fide of
Third-street, between SKiSpeu and Plumb
flreets, twenty one feet front by one hundred feet
deep.
A frame Tenement fifteen fjet by nineteen feet,
on the north fide of Skippen-ftreet between Third
and Fourth-streets ; the lot is one hundred leet
deep, it is paved before the door, and great im
provements are making in the street—the above is
clear of ground rent and every other incumbrance
—the house lets for thirty seven pounds ten flai
ling" per anuum.
Aframe Tenems.lt eleven by Gjcteen feet,on.the
weft fide of Fifth-flreec, between Shippen and
Plumb-streets ; the lot is ninety fix feet deep, clear
of every incumbrance except a ground rent of o.ie
hundred and ten shillings per annum ; the houfs
lets for thirty pounds per annum.
ALSO,
A pair of dark brown Carriage Herfes, one of
which is an excellent Saddle Horse.
For further particulars inquire of
Samuel R. Franklin,
No. 100, Lombard-street, corner of Fourth ftt.
N. B. The above property will be fold for part
cash and part dry goods.
June 30. 3aw4w
FOR SALE,
By Simon Walker,
No. 122, South Fotjrth-Street,
GOLD and silver Watches
Shot, common and patent
Tin Plates, Sheet Iron
Bar and sheet Lead
Copper sheets and bottoms
Taunton Ale
Ravens Duck
Hats in cases
Wool Cards
Claret Wine and Porter Bottles in hampers.
July 1. eoiw
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans' Courts
•will absolutely be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at
Cranberry, on IVcJnefday, tbe 13 d day of Augujl next, at !
II o'clocl, A As, all that valuable REAL ESTATE, j
late belonging to tbe Rev. Gilbert T. Snowden, d+csafed,
lying in and near Cranberry, iv the cbunty of Middle/ex,
townjbip of South Brunswick, (late of Nezv
on the lower flagejroadleading from Philadelphia to New
York. A very elegant framehoufe in a beaut ful and
healthy Jitvation, painted •white, -with Venetian window
flutters y thirty feet front and thirty eight feet deep, ttvo
rooms with a bandfotne ball or entry on the frjl floor,
ihree rooms on tbe second floor and two weli-finijbcd gar
rets. In the rear of tbe house is an excellent two-flory
building 37 feet by 19, conftfling of 0 dining-room for
work people, spacious pantries and a large kitchen, with
every convenience, and over these are three chambers for
servants. To tbe right is an additional building 18 f9it
front by 19 feet deep, conjijling of a chamber below and a
library above—under the whole are very fine cellars paved
with brick and conveniently partitioned. The house is en
tirely new, built in a modern flyle t and completely and c
legantly fmijhed. Every room it hung with bells that
lead both to the kitchen and tbe servants' apartments : there
is a pump of good water in the yard; and a flone and
brick pavement round the whole house, which is en ci &
ed with a handsome railing, with three gates in front,
Tbe farm conjijls of one hundred and ftxty seven
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence; a large barn, fla
bles, earriagc~bouft % cmv-boufes, all new y and built
in tbe befl manner : with two Orchards, one of 60 full
grown trees, tbe other is young and thriving, confifling ef
100 befl grafted fruit trees.
Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of IVoodland,
of Ujebefl quality, containing 37 acres. Also a traß of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, and I of tbe Cross
Koadi, containing one hundred and fifty acres, three-fourths
meadow and tbe red excellent timber.
This Trail will be fold in lots on Thursday, tbe 24th
day of Augujl following, II o*closk t A M, on the
premises if tbe weather permits, if not at tbe house of
Mr. IVHberilly Cross Roads.
For further part)cuhrs enquire of Nathaniel Hunt>efq.
Cranberry, of Mr. Jfaac Snowden y jun. No. X4I South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or of Mr- Charles Snowden
Tontine Coffee- House, New York, or of tiefubfcribers.
ISAAC SNOW DEN,Princeton \ .. . ..
JACOB FISHER, Cranberry J Admznrjtrvters
N. B. Pbe sale of tbe above property was aavertized
for tbe 14tb infl. but tbe Adminijlrators were not able to
get tbe two fefiarate Tracts laid out into Lots, and other
matters arranged, on account of tbe indifpfltivn of one of
them, it was therefore adjourned to tbe days above mention
ed. §6tmwftf June 19-
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Tra&s of Land,
IN the county of Glynn and state of Georgia,'
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
on the evening oFTuefday the 17th day ot June
next, at (he Merchants CofTee House in this ci
ty, tinlefs previously disposed of by privatefale.
1 ft. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of tbe town of Brunfwick,
originally granted to John Howell, and withia
6 n lies of ocean.
id. 25,000 acres on the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. jo,ooo acres on the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road passes through
these laads, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. jo,ooo acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally grated t«n
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the
body of these lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide water;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large
veffeU within ten miles of them ; that they are
chiefly fir# rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the ltat? of Georgia,
possessing the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementioned certificates, together with
the patents,' drafts, andothef-papers refpeiting
the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the pofiefiion of the fiibfcribers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third cash, the remaining two
thirds in good negotiable er.dors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix tponths after the sale; a
conveyance to be made to each pUrchaser on the
payment of that moiety of the notes leceived
from him which becomes firft dus.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEKEMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN. ,
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Marhet-Jlrcet.
MISS CHRYSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that,/he has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &c, which she hopes to be able to
shew them in a few days.
May 18 ( £3Ol
CARD.
SYLVANUS BOURNE, Cons-it Gears', of
the United States tathe Bitavian Republic*
begs leave hereby to make known to his friends
and others, that he has lately eftabliftied a Com
miftion House at Amsterdam, under the firm of
LANGE and BOURNE, by wham all orders
for the sale and purchase of merchandize and of
the various public stocks of the United States,
for the negotiation of loans, &c. will be attend
ed to with proraptitude and fidelity, and on the
mofl reafoneble terms.
July 14- 3t
Ihfuratice Company of North A
merica.
THE Dividend for the lad half year, declared
by the Director,* this day, is one dollar on
each ftiare of tke Stock of this Company ; which
will be paid to the Stockholders, or their represen
tatives duly acthorifed to receive it, at any time af
tHe 20tn infl.
EBEN HAZARD, Sec'ry.
July to. w ,'j it i' rh
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away frotn the fubferiber on the fee
end day of this inft. July, a Mulatto Man,
] named Will Bowzer, about forty years of
! five feet seven er eight inches high, rather
i chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, itriped purple trawlers
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
faicl fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place ; and it is expelled he has
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State.—Any person apprehending the said fel
low, and securing him so that I can get him a
gain, (hall receive the above reward if taken
i out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reafenable charges if bro't
home. i
JESSE REED,
Queen Ann's County, Maryland.
. J"'y 3- W3t
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service of the fubferiber,
on the 19th inllant, a negro man by the
name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
; a carpenter, and is a very, lively brisk work
man. His countenance is very good—When
spoken to, he converses with ease and confi
dence, and is pretty fagaciou*. I purchased
the said fellow ef Mr. Dubney Minor, in whose
name he has been advertised in the Richmond
ne wfpapcrs. During his last runaway rrip (last
summer) he was employed a confideriblc length
of time, by fame person near Dumfries, f r.im
which circomftance, I conjeilure, he has taken
another nothern route. I forcwarm all person*
from giving him employment, us any kind
whatever, and maftersof vest is and others, frora
1 carrying him out of this Hate. The above re
ward will be giveu if he is taken within
f miles of this city; and an addition-it Turn, in
, proportion to the difunce he inay be Wrought,
, or the trouble and expenee the appreheuder may
1 beat, in bringing him to thia place.
AUG; DAVIS.
I N. B. His apparclwas of tht usual »egro kind*
. but he had more cloaths than is customary fcr
. them to possess.
. , AD.
■ Richmond, JuHe ir, 1797.
C. E. Whitlock,
' DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs tbe Ladies apd Gen
tlemen ot Fhiiadelphtaaod its vicinity, thathe
]. continue* to perform all operations 011 the Teeth ;fnp
plies the deficiencies of nature with artjfi«ial or real
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing —Cleans,
files, regulates, extrafts, and fills decayed teeth with
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waio upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at their lioufes, and will be happy to re
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
' 68 north Eighth street, or at his house. next to the
Black Horse Tavern, on the Frankford road.
Dollars/
, Scaling and cleaning g
, Artifieialteeth, with enamel, per tooth,
Do. in gold lockets or fcrewt »
Natural 1 eeth with ligaiuret 7
■ Do. on gold or ivory lockets, or go Id screws 10
, Filingand cutfing, away decay— each decay 1
Filling with gold 2
' Do. with lead 1
Eotra&ing (to the families who employ him
as dentist) ,
Do. where not employed »
Tooth powder of his own preparing 1
■ Brushes, bell London manufacture »j cents.
Regulating, Slc. according to the oprrati >n.'
V c - Whitlock will fell the time of a Negro
Man ; —he is honelt and fobcr, and has about $ years
and a half to fecve. Enquire as abdve.
June" 5
Lanca'ter, Harrijburgh Carlisle,
Shtppenjl'urg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requeued to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has for some time fsb
fifted betweoH Mathias Slough of Lancafler, and
William Geer, is now dissolved but, not as M.
Slough insinuates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the
je<a fiom M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last, a recital of which is not now deem
ed necelfary. Any gentleman who wjlhes to be
more circumstantially infermed of thu meritt of
this buftnefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
®f M. > .etter, and then can he
at full liberty to determine whether or hot W.
Geer is not perfectly jaflifiabje in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place
Now from tbe liberal and generous ftfpport the
public were pleased to confer on the firfl <ffort in
this bulinefs, Vt lliiam Geer, in ronjunflion with
Mefirs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the puh
lic can poflxbly exert.
The above company, who are amply provi<M
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance i->
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
thole wne wift> to patronize and encourage th*
undertaking, that they can take their teats at
George Weed's, 'he sign el the White Ht.rfe,
Marktt
and Friday, to proceed to ] ancafler, Harrilbr.rsr,
Carlisle and Shipptnibufg. The fore as hitherto
eft blifhed.
For the further a . immodarion of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, ih Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thence and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that paflengcrs destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mod
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancafler, Jan. 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages ftart9 ' from the
house of William Ferrae, in I.ancafter, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the heufe of
Mr. Saipuel Elder in Harrifturg every Wednes
day morning, 011 the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thqrfday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel-
P hia - mwf