of tie UlUtttJ an D Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nutijssx 1697.J
Nicklin Ss* Griffith,
At thtir Store on Wilnut Street Wharf—
HAT* FOR SALk,
58 Midi. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wir.c in piprs andhhds.
TenerilTe do. in p:pe»
Old Port Ho. in hhd«.
Imperial Tea in quarters and aighthi ®f chefir.
Sail Canvafa, Ko. I, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for ths Weft-India market
Nails afiorted
1 Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhd«. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks j
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expected round
as fonn as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spanish Brown "j
Venetian Red j
} ™ NTS
WLite Lead
Red Lead J
€olcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheithing paper
Seaming Twine
,AKA >
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO, '
Brig Amazon.
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is now chanped tn
NTCKLIN Z? GRIFFITH.
January I. endtf
For Savannah,
Tiefaft failing Ship
i&s&jr SWIF r PACKET >
j 1 ■"■ugwtOTN. (a rcjjuhr trader)
Patrick Gribben, mafier,
WILL fail on the 10th inft.
i ice permitting) hishandfome accommodations
or p»flengtr». For freight or paflage apply te
the matter on borrd, at Eickley's wharf, above
Market-ftrect, or
1 N. & J. Frazier,
No. 9f, South Front-street.
February j. §
For Amrterdam,
I—«=. Tie Ship
FARMER,
John M'Collom, Miller ;
p<y?/i\ CryS? WILL fail in a few days, the
•® , part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffte, or
paflage, apply to the mailer on board, at Wal
■ut-Rrect Wharf, or to
"JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out of the said Ship, from
Bourdeaux, ant! for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, <ft a f»perior quality
Fontiniac,
Santerne, /■ Wines in calis
Lunille, j
Prunes in boxA
Novembe 24.
For Sale or Charter,
GOOD HOPE
lifeHrSWi Will carry about uoo barrels, and
;«r»irfy tntxkr in a p,r|«i. Far terms
apply to
Pragers ss° Co.
No. I(i, South Second-street.
Who have f«r sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Runr, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf
Fqr Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new veflel, wirh excellent
fsr paflengers .;
Sails on the 10th December. For' Freight or
Paflage, apply to RQSS & SIMSON.
Who has to Jifoofc ,
Afmall invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
IMDIGO, an la parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. $
IN THE PRESS,
AND SPEEDILY WILL BE PUBLISHED,
(Price t$ Cents)
Refle&ions on Monroe's View
OF THK CONDVCr OF THE EXF.CBTirK,
As published in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the fignatur* as
SCIPIO,
In which the comnirciil warflf: of France is
traced to the French fadlion in this country
as its fatirce, and the motives of the opposition
te the measures of the United States are exposed.
Feb. 8.
" Boston Glass Manufactory.
' r citizens of the United States are hereby
X informed, that the minufa<Sure of Window
•Glass is naw commenced at the Glass House in
JBofton.
It is needlefi to fay any thing of the excellent
-quality of the Bofl >n Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States ta be in every ref
fe& greatly superior to any ever imported from
Europe.
■ It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be canftmtly had by applying t» Cbntits F.
JCupftr, at theGkf. Hou!e.
Orders from the dillant Statestobe addressed to
VTr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
wo or three good Glafsmakers are want
ad at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations fcr good behavior, may be lure of
srnplay, by application to Mr. Gccrgt L>, LirJt, at
fhc works. Men without families will be {re
ferred. However unacquainted with the met had
•of r.akicg Crown Window Glass, they wi 1 meet
with ths lame encouragement.
Bofl on. January 16 a laW.v/
A Nurse's place wanted.
\ WOM jufl arrived from Knglattd, wants a
place »s a Nurfeor attrndjnt i»h the Tick, either a*i a
Gentleman or Lady.—For funhi r info'mat ion apply
at 10, South fourth ilr«ft, near Maikc (Irett.
Fib; t>. 3«
PHI-LJDELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY
JUST RECEIVED,
AND FOR SALE, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chcfnot an 1 Second streets,
( Pric• 50 Cents )
Causes qui fe font oppefees aux
Progres du commerce, entre LA FKANCEet les
ETATS-UMS de L'AMERIQUE.
Avee les Moyens de l'acc£l£rer ;
Et la comparaifon dc la Dette Nationalc
de l'Angleterre, dc la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addreffiet i Monfieurlc Mar
quis be la Fayette. Traduitfur Ie Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Mcmbre de la L6gifJatnre dela Republique
du MaflachufTet.
Le Commerce efl. a portion la plus importante des
(Richeflcs Nationales.
LeTrident de Neptune, eft 1c sceptre du Monde.
LIMIUt.
Or caufcs that have been opposed to the
VROGREBS of ( O.VIMERCIi botweeu
FRANCE and the UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
With the means of accelerating it ;
And a comparison of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
de la Fayette.
Translated (into French from the original Kng
lifh Manufcri t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber of the Lcgiflaturc cf Maflachufetts.
Commerce i» the moil important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
The Trident of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world. Lbmiere.
AT a junfture when the question of
a Commercial Treaty ivith Franc* may soon
become an object of difcu/lion, a work of this kind
becomes extremely ufeful to those citizens of the
United States, who may be defirons to enable them
selves to view this fubjeck, under its various af
pe<sb ; and they will have the fatisfadion to be
furnifhed with the necessary data, to jttdge of the
ufefulnefs of this tranfadlion.
This work is principally diftingiifhed by the
richness of the obfervauons, the pcrfpicuity of th#
and the modesty of the theory which Jt
contains. At Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufelul produce. Uis addref •
fed to the unfortunate La Favette, in letters,
which fugitive form, the author who "could only
devote a few wef ks to this occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although circumlbnc;s art ill many
refpe&s different at the present day, from what
they were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny abfelate and permanent data still remain, that
the judicious reader Will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
fblt of the author's remarks, it will fervc to con*
vmce him that in all tranfa&ioris, between free
nations, every thing maybe expe&edfrom the ef
forts of truth andjuGice.
LETTER I.
General view of the obftaclcs,'created m France,
to pi event the extension <*i commerce, with the
United States—Observations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, uponfome French manu
factures (a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices existing in France,
again ft the quality of certain produ&ions of the
I United States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Demonstration of ths bad policy of
laying duties on their importation, principally on
provisions in general, and on fait provisions, and
fifn in pa»ticular—-Confederations on the regulations
of ths French custom-houses.
LETTEfe 11.
| Obilaclcs to the e*tenfion of trade with Franre,
pioceeding from circumstances and individuals in
the Uoited States—Proofs that these obstacles are
temporary and will be removed (they hav«
been removed) by time and th« wifdomof govern
ment—History of the influence of the American
paper money—important principles and abftrail
confiderarions on money and circulation—Causes
of the Ragnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French im
ported into America, and extraordinary condutft
of the French merchants—Effeds of good com
mercial laws; ai:d patriotic wiflicson this fubjeA—
Observations on money, weights and measures.
LETTER 111.
Eflay in the form of a tableau, to appraise the im
doi tai ions into the Upited Slates from France and tng
land united. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better furuifhed from France or
England—lt is principally .On this fobjeft (which
would have aftonifoed a meie thcorirt) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kind of tableaux, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be defned, are the only sure guides
the flatefman can take for th policy ot treaties, de
prived of which lie is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We c»nnot too much admire the apparent ex
a&nefs of colonel Swarf's calculations ; and although
the propUefies of Lord She (Held have already been
contradi&ed by experience, and by feverai able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of the present work,
dispute with him the only ground on which be has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the tequived condition, will be better able
than Gie2t Britain to supply us with fcveral articles,
which th« English author allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's pa?tiality cjfefl on (tf he
! has any) does hot appear to have at any time created
a partiality of judgment. The result of this calculation
is that in 1789, that is to fay, at a period when arts
and manufactures did 001 prefect in France the valE
means and probability of exter.fion which they now
possess. that even in 1789, it waa prefumablc, that
France would not only have the meaos to supply one
half of any given auantity of th* prodtons of France
and t ngland united, butalfoto enter into cqmpctition
with Great Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of her government, and the indulkry
of her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the cxportations of the United States,
and particular examination of their suitableness to
France; this is one reason why, notwithstanding the
rxcelhnt work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta
bleau is by no means fupcrfluous . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France Jrom the
importation of provision* and raw materials, is every
where applied ; and it is upon this argument, that
the author eftabliihcs his demands to rhe French go
vernment, for the limited admi&on of the produc
tionsoi his country into France-.
LE ITER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time—Opmirns of the author on the finances, on the
effects of national debt, r>n circulation, &c. as more
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Burton in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
strengthen in France, rhe puV>l c and private credit
•f the United States——thehappy condition of Ameri
ca, and the mifcries arifi.ig from the public debt in
fcurcp?, arc consisted in the ablePc manner, and un
der the mo<l finking relations, by very cu ious cal
cula<ion?—<,H)!e'"vations on the wisdom and economy
wi icn prefi'de over the public expenlts in MafTachu
fetti. In ttris pid<fc the patrioriifti of the author ap
peals, with all the elevation which ajuft uatiyral
By John Fen no, N°* 119 Chefm.it Street
pride lnlpircs. Thcaneient governments of Europe,
la'ys he, will learn from us the art of economy in
recpmpenfing tke feivices which the country receives.*
Amnngfl us it rvill, be [ten, that nten are chojen for placet %
and not places for men. This letter co:tcludcs with a
general view of the public property, depohted in the
hands of the goven.meof of the United State*.
LETTER VI.
General examination ot the defe&» of the commer
cial policy of France with refpett to the United States;
many ol these obfervatioos have produced the effeffcs
for which they iwere intended, others dill remain,
pointing out the reforms to be made in future, as a
good chart marks the shoals and rocks. The author
conclades his work,' by fixing his attention on bis
country, and the great men who have rendered it il
lustrious; and wc take a ptcafure in quoting what he
fays of the present chief of our government. To
praise a man when he exercises a diilinguifhed em
ployment, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
but whilst he is in private life, ii is the homage of
ftneerity.
Note,
* Les habitans des £tats-unis, fuivant darn leur
choix le bien public, Sc fxcites par un principe de
reconnoiffaricc, choifirent M. John Adams pour vice
prc&dent du nouv«:u coogres. Se« efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formees par le gouv
fmement Anglais contre fa libcrte, le rendirent ties
fufpefl a ceux qui etoient en pouvoir Le pctiple,
convaincu de son merite, le choifit pour un de fes
reprefentaris dans le premier coogres. De ce nombre
etoit audi M Samael Adams, patriote audi intrepide,
qu'infatigable. La revolution Americaine doit beau
coup a la perseverance de fes travaux, fes talens
Ceux que M. John Adams a
dans le traite de paix, qui s'eft fait a Paris en 1783,
ont p|puve qu'il etoit miniflre aufTi habile que gran 4
politique. Et dans son ouvrage fur la defeaie de la
conftirution Americaine, il a montae toutes les ean-
qui ferment les vrais jurifoonfultes &. les
hommeade lot; connoiflances neceffaires, pdurrem
plir honorablement les fon&i#ns de president du fenat
des fc,:ats-unis.
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the S'jbforiber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common peal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judge,
of the Inferior Court of Common Fleas, in and
for the said county, praying that they weuld
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainll his liberation, pnrfuant to an a£t of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an a& for
th ' relief of irifolvent debtors," pafled the i6th
day of January 1798 —And the the said teurt
did appoint Menday the 26th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Precin<sl, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
hii creditors are rtqueft»d to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Pek. S, 1798-
Feb. 14 —iavr<w
OVAL BOTTLES.
Quirt and half gallon in crates —andaquaati
ty of Claret Bottles of a right fize —For sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
January u 3taw6w.
A House in Burlington for Sale.
THE fubferiber has a large, convenient two
ftory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wifhesto
sell. For terms apply at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
Lots in Waftiington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour.
December 19. 70t
Princeton—New-Jerfey.
To be Sold,
THAT neat and conv-nient House in which
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived j together with all the ap
purtenances. The house istwoltories high,
of frame work and painted. Tpere are four
reomi and an entry on the lower floor, and five
rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret fpectous—The back yard
is paved with stones. In it area weli of excel
lent water, an oven, a fmokejjoufe, and house
for ashes—and behind it a carriage house, hay
loft, granery, and convenient stables, with four
stalls for horses, and four for nea* cattle. The
lot is 60 feet wide upon the llreet, and 154 feet
detp, somewhat more than half of which is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil.
For terms, which will be maile very reafon
abl«, apply to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
January 19. ia\v4w
For sale oj to be let on ground
rent,
A vtiluaUe Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE cn the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Ht use Square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth ftrest ; there are at
present two small two flory briek houses, and a
number of fmail tenements thereon.
Also, far Sale,
Two three {lory Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on'
Watfer street, between Mulberry an 1* SafTafrafc
Streets, containing in front Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, the* widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit*
uation for a a merchant, flour factor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fo!d on very reasonable
terms for cash. For further inforixation apply
to the printer.
_Ju!y jr. nn&wtf *
IN THE PRESS,
And speedily will be Published,
, For the benefit of the
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATES,
A general plan and system of Regulations therein :
Written at Sea, in the year 1794 •
And now printed
Br THR AUTHOR,
" A navv would he maintained but to an almost
useless purpefe which taking tiiefcamcn kept the
merchantmen idle iu port, and trading Ire. fit Is
would he a« unprofitably employed, if they took
3llthofefeamen whofelkili and courage onboard fhipt*
of war, would give them pr tc6lion and secure
their faf*ry. Wc hav° both purposes,
i?id the cultivating h: n<i ©' atKntion alone is want
ipg to multiply their number. " Money may buy
" a!! ftcres, e.rc pc mariners; but, unlef* a
" supply of them i.« prefervsd, no wealth wiil be
" able to procure them."
February- 7, $
16, 1798.
Bank of Pennsylvania.
AT a meeting of the Stockholders, held at the
Bank on Fiiday, the 2d February, 1798, pursu
ant te public noticu-^-
On ftfotjon, Rrfolved, That, thia matting be
ing imprciYed with a due sense of the extraordina
ry service* and attention of Samuel M. Fox, Esq.
Prefidcnt of thi« Bank, io the execution of the du
ties of his office.; which have been much increas
ed by the pecuiiaf situation of the inftitu»ion, at
the period ot hi* appointment; and the diffi
culties in confluence of the recent ca
lamityin this city ; —a committee of three gentle
men be appointed to prepare a piece of Platq, ot a
value not ezceedingfWe hundred dollars, witllfhit
able emblems aad devices, to be presented to' Mr.
Fox, in the name of the Stockholders, as an evi
dence of the high f.nfe they entertain of his late
official fexvices.
William T. Smith, Peter Wikoff, and Charles
Biddlc, Efqrs. were appointed a committee for the
above purpose.
Ordered, that the preceding: rclolution be pub
lished.
Extract from the minutes. j*
WILLIAM T. S"VTITH, *
Choirtnan.
Att-efl —John Sito-reaves, Secretary.
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow rooming will be landed, at
Morris's Wharf, jutt above the Draw
bridge, the cargo of the schooner Fre<3e
rickfbnrg Packet, Captain Pearce from
Malaga, viz.
Bloom, Raisins in kegs
Do. Do. in boxes
Muscatel do. in do.
Figs in kegs
Almond kernels in calks and Loses
Solt ihell'd almonds in sacks
Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in kegs, &c.
1 he whole ot the articles Qiippsd as of the firft
qualities.
For Sale by
Peter Kuhn.
February j djt
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 92c acres, almost all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
E«rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
rhr.re are on it a number of buildings, forming
afq"are of nearly three aere«—The dwelling house
is a very convenient fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 finebearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said
traA near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Erotics and
ForeftTrew, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its-situation is about z8 miles
from the of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and la from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafii, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut treet.
February 2. eodtf,
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Gat Nails of all fixes, from siy to 20dy
Flooring Brads, Spriggp-, feddle and card Tacts
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadkrs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea,. Uoncs, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, fl.ibs, facia, window hea-ls (Mis, c .
All which may he had on reafonabli; terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a dillance, direSed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the pwlon, will be attended to.
December i 6 mth6m
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-ftofes of Meflrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Yoonc and Ormkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Catties and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
To nvh'ub is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and tiraSice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interefling fails and lefle&iens relative to
the Syhoibu: ISieroida, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the feapurt
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of l> hyficians,
and Member of the -imerican Philo ophical So
ciety. Feb. i
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 2«th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-ftrcet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tern
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regifter
iijg and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. ll.and PatUrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in moll of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States .of the
Union.
N. B. Thebufinefsof a Broker, inbuyihgand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difco'.nting Bill* ami Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houles, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. $
jTor Sale,
The time of a voting Mulatto Gitl, about
twelve years old, has about eleven years to serve.
She is very capable of taking eare of a child,
and undtrftimls house work, inquire at No
97, North sth ltrcet.
Jan. ix. •'eodiw
Jujt Published,
And to be had of Meflrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal BookTe'lers ia tSe
city .price one dollar, twinty-fivc cents, in hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH B IRTON, u. o.
June 20.
FOR SALE,
by ths svbsckibhu, No. 2i, Peen-fireef,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
- John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Cunjifling ef
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Co'fl'aes , l'imjum Cloths
Saiuhs Guyzeydo.
Humiiumi Chartsana Dortp
Ulue Cl :tb Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Muimulj
Mamoodyi Checks
Mahacagonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulma! <!o.
Guzzenas Bnndannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfov
Piniafcoes Choppa Komals
Soo;y do.
Gillie Komsls Persians of various col,
Mwck Pulicats
i »cio tons SUGAR
9«,'jO£} lb. PEPPEK.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges i.rc now open to sale at that
commodious (lore the north w,eft corntr of
Market and Fourth-flreets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafe Ilkfs. of els.
gant pattery* and best colours
February 8. dtf
~~ * FOR SALE,
By WHARTON iSt LEWIS,
No iij South From Street.
A quantity oj Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
ift Hiid 7,<1 proef Brandy, j drawback.
Madeiia
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
9- go dtf
6'/. Croix Sugars.
a 6 hopfliead. best ST. CKOIX SUGAR,
* FOR SALE BY
JOHN N/XON& Co.
Feb. 9 Im&wtf
W anted,
An a«slive, cleanly, industrious woman to
arid do the business of the kftchen. aSuch a on®
will be allowed good wayes, and no other ncedap*
ply.—Enquire of the Printer*
February 7 §
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Doflor ot a Ship to the Eaft-ludies.
Enquire at No. 25 Do.k Street.
Feb. 6. _ diw
Ran away from the Subscriber,
On the 24th January a i,
A Black Woman, named Zelime,
QHE is of a middling sized stature, thick lipt,
O marked with the small pox in the face—She
carried off a bund It of lirien with her. \K h- ever
takes her up and brigs her to the fubfcrif cr. at
No. 181, 4rch-ftrcet, corner of Fourth irreftj
(hall receive two Dollars reward
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbor*, f id Girl n ter this no*
ticc, fliall.be prefecuted to the fev, r ty of the law,
Februaty 10.
N O 7 I C E.
ALL persons who have any dehnnds no-ainft
the ell ate of WILLIAM COMP'TON, law
of the city of Pliiladelphia, deceased, ar» r qu'f
ted to furnith their accounts, duly attelled. And
those who are indebted to f.(id elt .t , .trecarncftjy
solicited to make immediate payment, to either of
the fubferibers.
Isaac Cathrall, ~j
John Haworth, f- Admioiltratori,
Samuel Wilcox. J
January 27. WS£W
NO TIC E. ~~
A LI. persons indebted to the estate of Peter Gill
late of the Diilria of Soathwark, deceased,
are retjuefted tc make immediate paymentto either
(kf the Subscriber.-.; and thole who have any da.
mands against said estate, are requeued to bring ia
their sc.ouritsdnly attelled, to
John Murphy, ") _
Peter Scravendyke, I J3,xecu *
Thomas Farrcll, J tors,
January 16. '.\vaw 4 w
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cerncjef
Second and Chefiiut ftreels,
( P net of a dollar J
Obfer vat ions on certain Decrements
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the ch/\rce o( speculation aeainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SUCRE ! ARV of the Treasury, is FULLV
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise ftatemtnt.of
the baft: meacs pracftifsd by the Jacobins ot the
United States to asperse the charters cf thofo
persons who arc considered as hoilile their d for
ganiziprg schemes. Is also contains the correspon
dence between Mr. Hamilton ani! Mellrs. Motirre
Muhlenburg and Venable, on the fubjeil of tb»
documents aforefaid, and a ferics of letters from
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Hamiltoa,
proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, thstthi
eor.ne&ion between him and Reynolds v.-as the re
sult of a daring conl piracy on the part of the lat
ter and bis afibciates to extort money.
(i ■ A difcomit of one third from the retail
price will be made in favor of wholesale purcha»
fers, for c*sh. Orders to be addrcfled to Mr.
Youno
February 9.
SALES 15Y AUCTION.
Staled Sales
For DRY GOODS.
r Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56,
M j J foutli Front.flreet,
u;< Afternoon —Footman & Co.No. 6j
Q South Front-street.
r F»renoon—John Connelly, Old CitV
Auflion, No 73 south bront-ftreet,
' Afternoon—William Shannon, No,
([_ 183 Hijh-ftroet.
s N °-»
■ 1 ESE^re£;v
FriAav ? Forenoon—William Shannon,
' < Afternoou—John Connelly.
Satiirday Aitcrnooa—»P«ter Brnfoo,
[ Vglvme XIII., >««< *wyrTr'*"' . ■■■■ «■. ■ 1 ■
If A< LOTTERY,—tfo 11.
I.ijt op Prizes and Blanks.
»6ifl Day** Drawing—January 15:
No. Dais. Ao. Ao. Holt. No. Duls.
lit
I*l9 joo 181 Jt *7l*7 J7» *5
*7l * x 39® * M 7
940 15184 443 x j4il3
jojj Hi x 79" 'I I
461 x 674 x 81 x
3181 'B*a 8»4 J7°49
4 83 x 16614 x 9m 9J4
5999 17710 9«9
61S0 x MS *«024 Bxi x
917 x * I*ll7 »49 95*
7161 357 x 76t J9'i6 x
g?to x 614 x xji'9 x 658
til 771 565 10 403*'
itfg «oi.f« x 30T*5 x x
945 2 ft s »7S 34i
9119 11C79 338 ■ 395
349 841 'C4 X 44639
10161 134?8 646 x 45795
>ll9B x 613 939 4779' *
11391 671 31149 ? g 7
344 X 944 639 481*0 X
13016 14023 X 31411 49»98
?SI "* 878 X 34047 °6l
ti6 15444 x 946 10 515
i<sid'D»y's Drawing —January, so.
ijß x 13813 »o 11840 38178
. j:l 847 x 11738 »93 *
1807 14164 x 840 313
881 347 X 137 11 4°9
944 674 x 14069 x 461 x
i*>iß 15300 165 10 819
647 * 490 *'9 40333
3111 661 x IJJI7 780
134 X 876 483 * 4'533
365 X 738 X 5l» 9»*
4130 X >6l X 17153 410JI
340 x 867 x 656 211
976 15 964 18080 X 894^
596J 14 16014 877 43'°5
<ll4 056 *9190 x 184 x
70 x 105 x r°i 370
721 567 869 x 898 X
798 887 30073 44171 *
7664 * *7'45 ®3» 383 *
945 919 783 617
8117 x 936 31911 x 936 •
604 18480 31191 45 I ' 3 *
990J 562 le 509 x 499 x
xoioo ji; 660 tll
Xlßl6 19084 718 641
868 141 969 4i"3
948 108 33*98 738 x
11194 *7« 34*58 9', 1
f6j Jls x 671 47281
619 10484 903 966
<63 687 X 913 x 48377
757 x 740 * 998 s*B
806 ij U133 35°3<> 49* 1 *
898 267 - 773 497
971 x <39 3896* 9°4
X3ZIB 686 x 37315 * 955
453 7*3 x 338
575 * 787 38065 *
JUST ARRIVED,
In (he Ship ilar, Joseph Woodman, master, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, assort
ed to suit Weft" India market
40 hogfheicls Wljfiiag
■ f SCO Unfljcli g'od Houfc Coal»
ALSO—JUST HWIJEO,
/icO barrels prime Bsef
50 barrels Pork
y*o hhdi. Havama Molafi*es
Wcolen Cloths
B'aukete > aborted in packages
Hard Ware j
Itr.vens Duck
Window Glafj in boxc?, Bri:ifh, of various fise*
JU&ek quart Bottles, in hampers of 4 groce each
A general affortaeßt of Queens' Ware, in crates
Fowling Pieces and Pistols, in casts
jßaiket fin 6 Salt, in hogflieads
foa SALE *T
Thos. John Ketland.
February Is {tin
For Bremen,
Tht Danish Rrigantmt
JKSBfc' JOHANNA,
Jofin Andrew Thieffen, Maf.er,
fj'XPECTED to fail on (he 18th instant. Tor
JQj ftjf'ie only, apply to the captain on board,
at Hamilton'# wharf, or to
EDWARD DUNANT,
No. 149, Seuth Front-Arect,
'Alio requests all thofc having accounts against
said veflel, to exhibit the fame for payment, pre
vious to the 18th inft. as no demands will be paid
after departure from hence.
Ut lui fill ** land, tf lie Ctrga tj /aid veffil, from
Malaga,
80 kegs frclh Raisins
11 < Sr3 fine bloom ditto
106 odxcs J
90 boxes Muscatel ditto
10 kegs Figs
11 iihii' J tapcrior Catalonia Wine
Malaga and Mountain Wine in hhds.qr. calks
And a few qr. calks fine old Colemenar Wine.
February 13. *jt
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE EatTOas of the Noxthikh Liurarv
St**, and Daily AnvaxTisia, rrfpefttully in
farm their patrons and the public, thit the publica
tion which was promised thit day, is unavoidably
poftpoocd until Monday next. '
BERNARD SCHEFFLER and Co.
PROPOSALS
For puhlilhuig a Daily in the Northern
Liberties of Philadelphia, to be eotitled, the
northern liberty star,
AND DAILY ADVERTISER.
CONOtTrONS.
ll\» The Northern Liberty Star, sod Daily Advery
fer, (Viall be printed on a g-«»d paper of a demy
fite # with a handsome type, every evening, and '
delifeied 10 fubferibers in the Northern Lifc»crties,
City, «nd (lermantown, between the hours of four
and f»* o'clock
sd. The price to fubferibers, will best* dollaki
per annum, one dollar and an half to be paid at
the time of fubferibing or at the end of every three
months.
3d. The S«ar shall contain the Arrivals. Clearances,
Prices Current, Stocks, and all otber Public Bus:-
ness, which may render it ufeful to the 'ubfenbers.
4th. Advertisements will be received every day until
two o'clock, and infertcdjfce fame evening, in a
neat and conspicuous manner, on the most moder
a:e terms.
Subscriptions, articlea of intelligence, advereife
mrnt-, See. will be thankfully received until Monday
tvent, at the Printing-office, corner of Sr. Joko and
5 . between Second and Third
(\reej, for tha' d*y'i publication.
•/ The Printers of the Uni.cd Sta es, who may
v. m'o exchar papers, are refprHfu ly to
lend on their papers as faon as poflible.
i'b nary 14. 1
Hvifon and Young Hyson Tea.
A f«w cl.e'tsot excellent quality, for Tale, cor
Lcr J ficcon- and Pine ftreett. Dk i6-*<otf
%t)t (Siasettc*
P H J LAD E L P HIA ,
ruiUAY EVENING, 'FE3RUARV 16.
tO MMUMCA TIONS.
The lights of every clafi of citizens de.
pend on supporting the Constitution of the
■ United States ; bat every enemy of the
| constitution is more the enemy of the. poor,
' than of the rich. To ele& to office the en
emies of the conftitiition, is to betray the
interests of the majority of the people ;
for the Constitution is the barrier that pro
tests them from the encroachments of wealth
and power. Those therefore who advocate
the eleftios of the known enemies of the
constitution, whatever they may pretend,
are the worst enemies of the middling, in
dustrious, peaceable, and thriving part of
the citizens.
A viler and more unfounded calumny
was never uttered than this, that the friends
of the constitution and government of the
United States, who advocate the eleftion of
Benjamin R. Morgan, are ariftocracy,
who seek. to deprive the people, or any de
scription of them of their rights. All our
senses centradift thefalftiood. " Tht rich
tndpour meet together—the Lord is the maker
of then all." Look round and round and
round th.s city; behold how mutually de
pendent are every class on each other. We
stand or fall together. The enemies of the
rich, are the enemies of the poor : cleft to
office the enemies of men of property, and
public confidence ii shaken to the founda
tion—the springs of society are interrupted;
the sources fail; industry sickens, poverty
and universal distress ensue, and man becomes
the enemy of his species. Of all the arts
praftifed by demagogues to raise themselves
to power, there is none so base, treacherous,
mifcliievous and deftruftive, as that which
draws a line of political diftindioa between
the rich and the poor—generating jealousies
fufpicit.-Ms, ill-will and bloodftied among
citizens whofc interests «re infcparable, and
whose union can alone in fare their happi
ness.
MR. FEN KO,
I think tht views of the French party
cannot be set in a fairer point of view, than
they wers a few evenings finec, at a meet
ing of a number of patriots, held at Lex
er's tavern, at which citizen Barker prefidtd
—The business being opened by the said
citizen in a speech recommending the talents
integrity and patriotism ojf Israel Irael, and
calling on all the friends of liberty and e
quality to exert themselves at the ensuing
elr&ion for a senator. This oracle of the
party, this standard of conclu
ded his harangue with the following fen
tcnee : " Notu is the time—if ive carry Is
rael Israel, •wejhall hereafter, lile Buonaparte,
conquer all before us." This being the de
termination of .the .French party, ii is Lcer
tainly the duty of every gocd citizen to op
pose these Buonaparte men, who now pub
licly declare, what thay have never ventur
ed to declare before, that their determina
tion is, like their great leader, to overturn
every kind of order, and eftabli/h a govern
ment of their own. v
AN AMERICAN.
He «» a RirusLiCAM !
But is this potest Abracadabra to lock
up our perceptions against glaring vice* and
flagrant crimes i He is a Republican ! but
is he either a good citizen or anhoncft man?
A man may be an afTafiia—he may repeat
edly attempt the life of a fellow-citiren, and
yet call hiraftlf, (and perhaps even think
himfelf) a Republican. He may be a trai
tor, (he may triumph at and expreft his
wilh for the fucccfs of his country's foes.)
He may be a constant reviler of the patri
ots, heroes and ftatefisen who atchieved the
independency of the Uaited States, and
yet a Republican. What is Repub
licanism, th#n } Is it a virtue ? No, not e
ve/s a negative virtue. Is it a ric« ? No,
but it is fallen into villainous uses.
For tht Gazette of tht Unittd States.
TUB DIGNITY OF GOVERNMENT—N«. I.
" The glory of men does out consist in pow
er, in wishes, in length of years, or grey hairs,
but in wisdom."
If men were what they frtfefs to be, govern
ment would be what it jbouli be, in which al'
perfsns and all interests 6nd equal pro
tection : hi the firft efiiblilnrr ent of a free re
public, the people always anticipate fueb a go
vernment, and under its benign inflaence they
entertain the pleasing hope that universal harmo
ny and contentment will pervade the happy
land. Such were our anticipations: foraltho'
the history of all the living aad the dead na
tions allured that no great people ever enjoyed
futb national felicity, yet we supposed that our
superior political light which the energy of the
revolution had kindled in the human mind, the
republican principles instilled into American
minds in their early education, and above all
the general reading of the Scriptures in this
country and the influence of the true maxims
of morality they contain, had made us a new
rEofLt —that we were politically and morally
" born again". Hence we concluded that we were
alike fecurcd from the follies and the fate of o
ther nations. Here the human charaAer was to
expand iu all the glory attached to the final dif
tinllion of man —and expiring patriots who at
chieved the revolution were to be soothed in
their latest moments with this hop*. What
fays experience T Do not the hea I of good men
which once palpitated with rising joy fink with
in them—and their inspiring hopes fall back
on thiir minds ? Is not the lover of his country
flung to the foul jn viewing the dtvifions which
retard the progress of every good ! Is he not
juflly agita ed with fears left the fame defliny
awaits our country which his sealed the deduc
tion ot all others I
May the Parent of the UnivefTe call back
every American mind to our " firft love"—to
love our country with an afleAion stronger than
ali the wayward paflions—to point all our ener
gies to the path of wisdom—to silence every
tenguethat moves not in virtue's cause—that all
•f every ailion who dwell here ir.ay lose diflinA-
iors in tl:e American name—become her Tons
an.l daughters and (bare alrke iti the bleffirt;.'S
whieh Heaven may have in rrferve for an unit
ed, virtuous and intrepid nation, the guardian
©f freemen and friend of the world.
Let the rulers in every department search
and try their own wayi by the ftanHard of truth,
" whatever ye would men (hould do tcyou, do
ye so to them. This it at all times neceflary,
as it is said by high authority, " that folly has
a corner even in the hea't of the wife."
Let a.) the their hearts, fa fee if
they have ailed upon pure-principles ia their
eleftitus, and in fuppnrting, or oppnfing the ru
lers j let them alfa try their conduit by the a
bove divine rule. There cannot be a doubt that
pure principles are as eflential in the people as
in the rulers, and that f«eh a people and such
only will have wife-men to rule over them. It
is idleto.be careless in regard to eledior.s. and
clamour igainft the measures of government j
ignorance only can entertain the hope t\f reform■
ing hail rulers —The only security in the power
of the people, is to be vigilant at their elefiions,
(unless the government is to be destroyed) ;
here they ought to exert all their sagacity in a
close txaminatim of the political charailer of
the candidates, and also the tniral cboralfer, as
an immoral man never ought to be trusted with
power.
It is also very effestial to the preservation of
a free government, that there be great cautirau
in bringing charges wf mifcondiiit against rulers,
for if fair# accusations are frequently made and
refuted, the people will not duly regard an ac
eufation aga'nftabad man which is founded in
truth—Besides, good men are often deferred
from accepting an office when they may be ex
pnfrd to abuse from licentious tongues and pens.
This deserves the furious attention of Americans,
as liberty is evidently :n danger from the abuse
good men in office are liable to, and in too ma
ny inftanses received. Besides, it degrades and
vulgariaes the manners of a free people, it nou
r (hes the evil passions and prepares them for sla
very.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
__ *
THURSDAY, r BRUARY 15.
Mr Dwight Foster from the committee of
claims, made an unfavourable report on the pe
tition of Thomas Lewis, aid-de-camp to gene
ral Wayne, which was read and ordered to lie
on the table.
The bill granting 4he right of franking let
ters to the Attorney. General and the officer
commanding the troops of the United Sutes,
was read the third time and pal Ted.
i'he house again resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whola on the report of the com
mittee of claims on the fubjeit of extending the
provision allowed to the widows and orphans of
certain officers of the army of the United States,
to the widows and orphans of those who were
killed in a£lion with the Indians in the territory
north weft of the Ohio, on the 14th Novem
ber, 1791 , when the proposition made yester
day for extending the provision to the widows
and orphans of all officers who have died in the
service of the United States, not at present pro
vided for, was agreed to. The committee rose,
the house concurred in the amendment, and the
committee of claims was dire&ed to bring in a
bill accordingly.
Mr. Livingfton said, the delegates from the
state of New-York, had received inflruiiions
from the legislature of that state, to use their
endeavours to get removed a difficulty which
existed in a suit now pending, in which there
was a elafhing of jurifdiftiou between the slates
of New-York and Connecticut. In order to
remove this difficulty, and others of a similar
nature, in future, he prepofed a refolation to
the following effefl :
" Resolved that piovifion ought-to be made
by law allowing the trial of all cases in which
one or more states may be interested, by a ju
ry to be taken from a state not interested in
such suit or fails."
Ordered to lie on the table.
The Speaker noticing that the uafinifhed bu
siness, of the bill providing the means of foreign .
intercourse, was firft in order,
Mr. Dent moved to postpone the confedera
tion of that business until Monday, as from the
appearance of the house, he did not think it
would be proper to go into so important a fuh
jeft at present.
After a few other observations, the question
for postponement was carried 44 to 34
Mr. Livingfton, from the committee of com
merce and manufaflures, repei ted a bill for the
relief of Sylvanus Crowell, which was commit
ted for Monday.
The fame gentleman, from the fame com
mittee, also made a report on the petitions -of
Reuben Smith and Nathan Strong, who pray to
be allowed the bounty and drawback on a quan
tity of beef, pork and cotton goods exported,
which had been regularly infpefled, but upon
the exportation of which the neceflary bond had
nut been given, nor the oath prescribed taken.
The committee state that the negleit does not
appear to have taken place from -ny improper
motive, and therefore recommend that the re
lief prayed for may be granted. Committed
for Monday.
On motion of Mr. Gregg, the house went
into a committee of the whole on the ►"!! tor
the relief of William Alexander j which being
agreed to without amendment, the committee
rose and the bill was ordered to he read a third
time to-morrow.
On motion of Mr. Livingfton, the house
went int« a committee of the whole on the bill
in addition to the aA for the rtlief and
ion of Americas fcamen ; when, after Mr. L
had introduced an amendment, requiring mast
ers of vessels ttr give bond to bring back, or
give a due account of all the sailors they take
out on their voyages, the committee rose ; but
some objections being offered to this amendment
in the house, the consideration of it was postpon
ed, and ordered to be printed.
Mr. Dwight Foster then moved to adjourn.
Mr. Dawfon wiHied the motion for adjourn
ment to be withdrawn until he offered a resolu
tion the house.
The motion for adjounfment-was perfided in,
and negatived, there being only 23 votes in fa
vour of it.
Mr. Dawfon then proposed a resolution to
the following effeCi, which he wiflied to be re
ferred to tr.e committee appointed to consider
upon the propriety of making certain amend
rfaeuts in the Handing rales and orders of the
house:
" Resolved that the (landing rules and or
ders of this house, be amended by adding to
them a provision, that prrions attending this
house to take down i's debates and procicd
ingK for the purpose of publication, lhall be
per mitted to take their places within the bar of
the house."
The Speaker said, he would state to the house,
that this was now the cafe, except as to one
who had abused the privilege, and in
tuited the speaker of the house.
The resolution was ordered to lie upon the
table. / Adjourned.
EAST INDIES.
MADRAS, May 9.
CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.
On Sunday lad arrived the American (hip
Harmony, capt. Kollock, last from the
Cape of Good Hope, which (he left on the
9th of March.
On the 28th «lt. the Harmony fell in with
the fleet under conroy of Admiral Rainier
ia lat. 4, north, and long. 87 —all well.
The Harmony left at the Cape the fol
lowing very respectable naval force.
Line of Battle Ships.
Tremendous, 74-—-Ruby, 64—Stately,
64 —Sceptre, 64 —Van Tromp, 64 —Dort
and Jupiter of 50 guns.
Frigates. ,
L'lmperieufe, L'Oifeau, Vindidlive,
Saldaiva, Braave, Crescent and Sphynx.
Sloops.
Rattlesnake,—Echo,—and Star. Brig
H«pe, and (loop Reliance.
Pi ires—Tlte George, Navigator, Reu
nion, and D'an^.
Several homeward bound Ameriean ves
sels were also at the Cape.
CAPE PRIZE MONET.
The prize money for the capture of the
Cape of Good Hope, incompletely afcer
tainei, and amounts to the net sum of two
millions and a half ftcrling, to be divided a
mong the gallant captors ; the (hare of a
Pod Captain in the navy will be fO.OOoI.
and that of all other officers in similar pro
portion, both in the land and sea service,
according to their refpeftive ranks.
MAURITIUS.
Letters from Tranquebar, dated the ift
iridant, mention the arrival of ? small Da
ni(h veflel, from Mauritius, after a paflage
of 42 days.
Accounts received by the above vefiel
(late, that Admiral Siercie, remained in
port at the period of her departure, that the
guns of his squadron were landed, and that
the frigate La Regenere, having been
found leaky had been hauled into the Careen
age for repair.
It appears that Siercie had, whilst at Ba
tavia, buried 600 men, and had left 90 in
the hospital at that place.
An American (hip the Apollo, had been
fitted out as privateer, and had proceeded
to sea on the 14th of March.
One of the letters from which we have
derived the above has the fol
lowing pi&urefque defeription of Siercie's
squadron, on its arrival from Batavia, Itc.
" They have brought in a great number
of prizes andpr'ifuncrt from Batavia, confid
ing of Trees, Flowers, and other curiod
ties of the Island of —the prisoners,
Monkeys, Baboons and Birds, of all defcrip
tiont in great abundance, the squadron when
they arrived, reminded me of a defcriptioti
of Noah's Ark, or of the Bounty Store
(hip, transporting the Bread Fruit Plant,
instead of a squadron of armed ships."
"Every thing was quiet at Mauritius,
and little I believe thought off, but how
they {hould cheat the world and each other:
quite relaxed in their mock-difeipline—no
exercising of National guards, Icc. the
Guillotine lurnt, no trees of liberty decorated
with the lonet rouge, yet ire they not with
out their fears of being called to a future
account for their treatment of the National
CommiiEoncrt."
July 19.
Yesterday arrived the American (hip Bel
ifarius, Crewninfhield, -from America and
Mauritius.
Whether intelligence novel or important
has been brought by the above ve(el r we
know not, the captain not having landed at
the time of this paper's going to press.
The well known Cuthhert Fenwick, eap
tured some time fincc by Siercie's squadron,
has returned to the Prince of Wilei-iflasd,
from Batavia.
Two (hips under the colours of Tippoo
Sultaun, are likewise said to have arrived at
that port. Conje&ures »n this held were
various. One of the vessels was formerly
the Latchme, a rich and valaable (hip,
bound to Manilla, captured long since, on
her passage to that port.
A small vessel, with two Frenchmen on
board, had also arrived at the island, and
reported themselves as belonging to the Mo
ri ede, and that they were in want of pro
vision and water. On examining their boat
however, some ca(ks of fait provisions and
plenty of water were found on board.
They were well entertained «n the island,
and it was at one time proposed to fend
them in the St. Lewis to Calcutta ; but as
a separate cabin tor each was required for
them, being filled peopje of didiuAion
(Aristocrats) they could not be accommo
dated on board this veflel.
Numberless conjeftures were entertained
about these men, and the objeft for which
they had introduced themfelvesupon the island
The Latchme had a considerable quan
tity of bale goods on board, which (he dif
pofedof at the island to advantage.
ZEMAUN SHAH.
If it be true, as our accounts from the
north of India would lead us to believe,
that Zemaun Shah, having redored the
tranquility of his country, has again resol
ved upon the invalinn of Hindodan, every
step of his progress becomes an interesting
objeft of enquiry, and the various fortune
•f his arms a matter of general solicitude.
The preparations for the intended expe
dition continue to be conduced with the ut
snolt alacrity and spirit. The objeft of
thi» armament is dill, very properly, kept
a profound secret. To whatever point the
blow is to be direfted, the efficiency of the
equipment itfelf, and the judgment and en
ergy with which we are warranted to con
clude it will be conducted, m u d ensure the
mod complete success.
Flax Seed for sale.
Apply to
» GEO. DOBSON,
Mo. »{, South Third-flreet.
January »7 5
NEW-THEATRE
THIS EVENING,
FEBRUARY 16,
Will he pre r ea'el the COVIEDY of
The CLANDESTINE MARRIAGE.
Lord Oglcby, mr Bernard John Melvil,
mr Warrea—Sterling, mr Morris—L<«vewcll, rar
Marshall—Cantos,mr. Harwood—Bru(h,mr Har
ding-—Serjeant FUwer, nir Francis—Traverse,
mr Taylor—Trucmaa, i»r Warrell—Servant, mr
Hunter.
Mrs Heidflbcrg, mn L'Eftrangc—Mlfs *ter«
ling, mrs Morris—Farm y, *irs Mar (hall—Betty,
asifs L*E? range—'Chambermaid, airs Francis—
Trudy, airsDe&or.
To which will be added (for the 2<i time)' a Grand
Heroic Pantomime Ballet and Spe&ade, takes
from OJfian, called v
OSCAR AND MALVINA.
[Composed by Mr. Byrne—and performed under
hii dirrdion at th- Theatre, Covent Garden,
upwards of two hundred nights.
The nfw Mulic composed—and the ancient Scot*
Music fclefted and adapted b/ Mr, Shield. Th«
Overture Ky Mr. Reeves.
Oscar, (the descendant «f Fingal) mr Byrne—
Carrni, (the Scottish Chieftain) mr Hardinge—■
Firigal, mr Taylor—Morven, t»r Marihall—Dra
co, mr Warroll, jiln—Scotch Pedlar, (with the
Song,'l am a jolly.gay Pedlar') mr Francis—
Scotch Lad, mr Fox.
Scotch l.affie,mifs Milbourne—Malvina
ter to Tofcar) mrs Byrne.
Principal Bard, mr Darley.
Bards—Messrs. Fox, Warrell, T. Warrell, Hun
ter, Bliffett, Matthew, ice.—mrs Warrell, miss
Melbourne, mri Stuart, mrs tjnriter, mad. Har
wood, 4tc.
TheScenerjr, partoainted by Mr..Milbourne, and
part by Meffts. Holland arid Stuart.
Repre/entinj—The Hall of Fingal, with a
Banquet preparatory to the Nuptials of Oscar
and Malvina
The Mountain of Ben Lomond, with the
Military Proceffiou of Carrol to the Hall of
Fingal.
A view of the Sea and Rock from which
Oscar escapes by leaping from a high precipice
into the arms of hi* Soldiers.
The Bridge, with the Camp of Carrol.
The death of Carrol by the hands of Mal
vina—hit dcfcent into the Sea—and the c.ofla
gration of the Camp of Carrol.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarter! of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
£5" The doors of the Theatre vyill open at fire,
and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clock.
Places lor the Boxe* to be taken at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till i o'clock,
and from 10 till 4 on the days of performance.
Tickets to be had at H. and P. Rich's bock-store.
No. 50 Market-street, and at the Oftice adjoining
the Theare. Fir AT RSSFUBLICA
. . L , 1 -
At Mr. Rickets's Circus,
Corner of Chefnut and Sixth streets,
On FRIDAY evening, February 16,
Will be exhibited (for the last time) a grand rtp
lefentation »f the ARMS of the different STATES
of A'M ERICA, and a considerable number of Il
luminations, representing a variety of the most
remarkable edifices in Europe, and other fuhje&i,
including the irrigate United States, which will
appear illuminated with 600 lamps ef various co
lours.
Concerts on the Piano Forte, by a Child tea
years old, vix. Martini, Grand Overture—the
Battle of Prague.
The whole to conclude with elegant FISH
WORKS, composed and executed by Mr. AA4-
BROISE.
A piece called the Ladies Caprice.
A Mechanical and Chemical Piece, with a va
riety of different effects, called
Tie Foalifh.
A piece taming torix.ntally above and below,
aad temiiaating in a large bunch of flowers play*-
iag in Chinese fire.
A variegated scene which will change into fev
etal designs and metamorphoses.
Apiece changing itfelf into twelve timet ef co
loured fire, and terminating by the admirable piece
called
Z>g Zag.
A grand mechanical piece, which, after many
tins, will form a combat of three Sunt, which
will make room to a fraud American Sun.
Ttuo Aftn en Htrft
Will ride round the Circus, foarrounded with fire
woifcs, and fighting with fire swords.
The doors will be opened at 5 o'clock, and
the fire-works will begin at 6 o'clock.—Box, three
quarters of a dollar ; Pit, three-eighths of a dol
lar.—Days of perfatmance, fuefday and Satur
day—Tickets to b» had at the Circus, or at O'Kt
lers's Hotel.
Public Sale of Real Estates.
Ob THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' CofFee-houfc in Seeond-ftseet,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
Nn. 1. A two flory brick House, with 1 two
story frame Buildings, on a lot 20 feet front and
ioc feet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet lquare,
with the privilege cf an alley to go thereto. This
interest has lately been let for 200 dollars per an
num, and is fitnated in Chriftian-ftrect, betweea
Front and Second streets, the feco'nd house from
Mr. Caleb Ash's.
No. 1. A three story brick House, situate at
the north east corner of Chefnut streets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 20 f*ct on Chcfnut
ftreet, now in tlft tenure of Mr. IVTorange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and ie deemed one of
the best stands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
3. A handsome well finiftied three story
brick House, 20 feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-flreot, between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40 This* oufc is hailt and finifhed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a cittern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at prt
fort let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxe*.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
PUirabflreet, between Second and Third street,
being 20 feat front and 130 feet deep, at
occupied by Robert Kenny.
N«. 5. A three story brick House, on the bank
fide 0/ Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro*
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is 1Q
feet front aad 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and u rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The contfitions of Sale are, owe quarter cash,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
and one quarter in ia months.
Philadelphia, Jan Tft, 1798. jaw
Jjj" On account of the present bad weather, the
above faieif postponed until Thursday tT:ni*jr, the
fir ft day of March, at 6 o.elock. Feb. 16.
Lost—Yesterday in the Market,
AN ORDER drawn by capt. Richard O'Brien,
favor of John Larkum, on Mr. Tench Franc»%
Purveyor of Pt.blic Sup->li~s. Whoever has foead
tl e fime, is re<ju«fled t > leave it at Thomas Lar
l< ill's, foyth Front street, or at this office.—
Payment being
one but th: *waer. fsb, 7 4C"* "• »i ■
From Tooi/g'i EiSai,
ON
I-IBIRTT AND Equality.
* What !" fay our modern innovators,
" fifcall wc be precluded from seeking the re- [
lircfj of bur grievance!, in what way, or bv
mains we pltafe ? Are not Liberty and E
qi«':ity the natural rights of men ? And who
IhaSi deprive us of the one or the other."
.Liberty is, doubtless one of the molt valu- j
*hli earthly bleflings ; but, like all others, ;
it ij liable to be abused. Often has it been
(a«d oft.cn is) employed as a cloke of licen
"tiouinefs ; but it is only of late that it has
be«a coupled with Equality ! Let us exa
mine, with candour, this new association.
Liberty is one of those things of which
e«ery man has some kind of conception, but
which no «un finds it easy to define. Patting
over the various descriptions that have been
given of it, it is manifeft that perfeft liber
ty must confilt in—an unlimited power of
doing what one pleases ; or, of following
the diftates bf one'tcvn will without any
restraint from without himfelf. But it ise
qually manifeft that this fort of liberty is
competent to God only ; because none but
he has a right'to make his owh will the sole
rule of his actions. But at all men, whe- '
ther faints or sinners, while in this lift, have !
much corruption about them, their wills '
must always be inclined, more or less, to
what is contrary to God's will, and is pro
hibited by his law. That law, therefore,,
will always prove a great restraint Hpon the
liberty of mortals. Suppofmg mankind to.
be in what is called the ftatc of nature, be
fore the formation of society, ortheenafti
on of government of any kind ; in that cafe
man was under any (abjection to the will
•f any ftllowcreature, nor was his will un
der any other restraint but the law of na
ture. Even in that Jlate be could have no
right f iill, to'lit, or do any thing else which
God in that law had forbidden. Thus ev
ery man would have had an tinreftrained
right to follow his own will, as far as it was
agreeable to the law of nature. Arid this
is, precisely, what ought to be called natu
ral liberty. s
Though this natural liberty can never be
inrr;uf;d by any human institution ; becaule
men can never have power to abolilh, or to
lessen the obligation of the law of God ;
yet this liberty may be abridged by human
authority ; and must be so, wherever soci
ety exists. When any number of men set
up any form of government among them
selves, they must not only fix certain regu
lations, at the firft, according to which they
will be governed, but they must likewise es
tablish, in some hand or other, a power of
making laws for time to come. Every mem
ber of that society must give up his natural
liberty so far, as not only to submit to the
fundamental regulations formally agreed to
by the whole, but also to the will of those
who form the legislature in the society, in
all things that are not contrary to the law
of natufe : But he parts with this portion
of his natural liberty, only upon condition
of his being so protested by the community,
or by those to whose hands the administra
tion is entrusted, {hat none may have pow
er to lay any restraint upon his will, but what
is laid upon him by the laws of God or of
his country. This is what has been called
civil liberty. Hence it is manifeft, that no
fflan in the due. erercife of reason, will ever
claim ffie unrcftrained use of natural liberty
jn the social Hate. The will of every indi
vidual must be fubjedl to the public will.—
But if the government is rightly conftit'utcd,
every one has a fufficicnr compensation for
that portion of his liberty which he gives
•p, in the protection which he enjoys under
the wings of the law. And no man has
ground to complain, while no restraint is
l\id upon him by the public will, but what
ilfor the general good-
Every oneknows that all governments 3re
rot alike friendly to liberty. Some .allow
the fnbjett to retain a greater share of his
natural liberty, and some a less. A n *l that
government is always the best, wkere most
of it is fuffered to remain, ptovided the
ends of government ars gained. Thi< is the
▼try thing, that, above all others, shews the
excellence of government, and constitutes
Eritifh liberty. We are not only secured I
against fubjcAion to the will of any man,
or any set of men, contrary to law ; but
the law itfelf allows us to follow the dic
tates of our own will in more cases, and lays
us under fewer reftrainti, than the laws of
any other country do. A British fubjeft
may do with himfelf, and with all that is
bis uwn, just what he pleases, so long as he
does no injury to his fellow-fubje£ts, or to
the constitution at large.
It is likewiff evident, that h is impoffibb
to frame any government in fueh a manner,
as that.all who live under it (hould be alike
fr«e. Suppofmg a government so perftfl as
to have every law eaa&ed, that could con
duct to the good of the nation, and no more,
it is evident, that the man who was most
disposed to promote the public good would
always have most liberty ; because, in doiag
what he pleased, he would just do what the
law reqaired. On the other hand, if there
existed in that aation, an enemy to his coun
tiy, or one who wifbed to promote his own
interest, by injuring or opprefliag hie fel
low fubjedts, that man would live under
continual restraint. He would be a slave in
the midlt of a fre* nation ; because be could
ucv:r follow his own will, without tranf
greffir.g the laws. Hence it follows, that
uader every jood government, the most vir
tuous man is always tht most free ; anj the
ruoft wicked will always be under the great
est retrain!. They among us who (ince the
days of Wilkes and liberty have
clamorous for more liberty, hive been the
very persons who have Rood most in need of :
the rrftraints of the law.
Having said thus much of liberty, let us ;
raw tafce a view of herbaflard filter Equal• \
•». But here, lam afraid t we have got '
.'•Veus by th*- neck. can tell
• • this Equality is, that some meu
plead for. If wihirit.it <L*,> in on; Diane,
it in tantly aftame-s
not what wc are contending about.
If they only mean, that every good fub
je£t should enjoy an equal (hare of Civil Li
berty, an equal protection of Law, and an
equal fecurLy for his person and property,
this kind of Equality we all admit: and
thanks to kind Providence we all enjoy it,
unless we have forfeited it by our crimes.
What can human wisdom do more, to set
us upon an equal footing, unlet there was
an equal division of property between us?
Such an Equality of property,we are told,
they do not plead for; and n» man of un
-derftanding will plead for it. It may easily
be believed, that the leaders of our affocia
tionsi, if they could succeed in their ambiti
oui views, would wish to keep the largcft
(hare of the property to themselves. But
no jjerfon can be ignorant, that many of the
deluded people whom they have prevailed
with to join their focietics, and fubferibe
their papers, look forward to such an equal
ization of property, as one effedt of the re
form expedted; and this profpedt is the prin
cipal thing that engages them to the cause.
Some tell as that what they contend for,
is an equal eligibility to places of power and
trust under government ; and this also, in a
proper sense, we enjoy. 'The law, indeed,
requires certain qualifications, in those who
pofTefs such places; but any fubjeft may
enjoy thesn, upon qualifying himfelf as the j
law direfts. Seceder, as I am, there is no
law to prevent his majesty from appointing
me prime minister. And if he does, I have
it in my choice, either to accept the appoint
ment, and qualify myfelf for it, by taking
the oaths, as the law direfts, or adhere to
my principles, and refufe the appointment,
because I will not qualify. I hare only to
choose whether I lhall enjoy riches, and hon
or, and power, at tlje expence of my prin
ciples, or keep a clear conscience and con
tinue as I am. To be a minister of state is
none of the natural and unalienable rights of
man; and lam deprived of none of my rights
by being kept from that office.
But why should we contend about a Phan
tom? And what else but a Phantom is this
Eligibility ? What avails it to me, that no
law precludes rae from an office for which
nature never qualified me, or from which
providence has set me at such a distance,
that I can never have any reasonable hope
of enjoying it ? ,Unless we are influenced by
ambition, or some other principle equally
fordid, this kind of Equality will never be
considered by us, as anobjedt worth contend
ing about; much less an objeft, on acoount
of which we may embroil our country, or
involve it iu anarchy and coafufion.
Our friends must acknowledge that they
who are entrusted with the supreme power,
in any nation, must have a right to nominate
whom they think most proper, to inferior
offices under them: and they cannot lay that
any man is deprived of his right, because he
is palled by in fach nomination. Or will
they maintain, that though no roan can be
born a king, one may be born a minister of
state, n judge, or a general in the army ?
They must likewise allow, "that layvs may
be made without injustice, excluding men,
who are acknowledged good fubjedts, from
certain places of power, trust or dignity in
the state. Is not a feat in the House of
Commons a place of as high trust, as any
that the nation has to bellow ? Would they
think it reasonable that Peers, officers of
Excise, or Commiflioners of the Cuftoias,
should be rendered eligible to a feat in that
house ? .Or do they think that a man's be
ing an Excise officer or commiflioner of the
Culloms, deprives him of any of the invio
lable rights of Man ?
But the most rational account of this e
quality which is now argued for is, that it
confifh in an equality of power, or politi
cal influence. The sovereignty, and all the
power of the state is radicallly in the peo
ple. This power the people ought to retain
in their own hands. And if it were shared
by all the people, every individual would be
I-8000,000th part of a King. But as wc
(hall be allowed to cut off all women and
children, and probably all menial servants,
the number of those who have a claim to
the rights of men, may be computed at two
millions. The sovereignty therefore must
be divided into as, many (hares ; and of th'efe
every active citizen is to pofTefs one. Doubt
less this will be very just, when once we
have all government abolished, and ourselves
reduced to that state of barbarism, towards
which our neighbors are faft verging. But
•even if this were attained, an important
question will arise, whether each (hall retain
his portion of sovereignty in his own hands,
or whether it /hall be deputed in the hands
of representatives ? It is very probable that
one part of the sovereign people will be for
the one method, and another part for the
other. ,If it is agreed that the sovereignty
is to be exercised by representatives, then
equality is already deflroyed. Each repre
sentative is conllituted a legislator, he is
invested with as many portions of the so
vereignty, as there wore adtive citizens who
had a vote in choosing him ; while his elec
tors themselves fink into mere fubjedts. But
suppose it is only meant, that every man
should have an equal right to 3lec\, and an
equal iafluence in eleftions ; let us fee if c
ven tbis be poflible. Igo to the place of
eledtion, without connections, without de
pendents, and without any thing to support
my opinion, but the honesty of my inten
tions. But I have a rich neighbor, who
happens to be in the opposite interest. He
comesattended with tenants and dependants,
who all know that lie can turn them out
from their farms or places, if they do not
vote as he docs. Where now is the equali
ty between him slid me ? It cannot cxift
without an equality of property.
\ Suppose this likewise obtained. All mea
come to the place of election upon a level:
no one is worth on<? farthing more than a
nather : and with pet fedt equality the elec
tion is got through. But before the year's
end, ciic man has fquzndered his allotment
of property in-riot and difT.patinn, a■>? a
not her has doubled his by laud ible induftr.y.
Before 3 new eledlion, we m;ilt h*»e a new j
division of property. The indultrious man j
into be robbed oflhe fruit of his labor, and I
it must become the property of him who is I
a pest to society, that at the eledlion they j
may have equal influence. Suppofc this j
newdivifionmade; (fornothingisimpoffib'eto i
a sovereign mob) the dissipated wretch hap
pens to be a man at abilitieß, can speak, and
knowjhowtowork upon thepaffionsofa mul
titude : the roan of industry is a blunt honest
fellow, who contents himfelf with faying aye
or no. The firft makes a vehement harangue
in favor of some unworthy candidate of his
own kidney, and is followed with huzzjs
and acclamations «f Paine for ever ! The
other can only fay, " Gentlemen I vote for
such a man, becaafe I know him to be an
hone ft man and a friend to hit country j''
and nobody attends to him. The libertine, ;
of consequence carries the ele&ion by a great .
majority, and the friend of his, country is
rejefted. Thus to maintain an equilKy of j
influence, even in annual eleilions, we m«ft ■
not only have an animal division of proper- j
ty, we must also bring over dame nature to !
our scheme, and obtain from her a decree,
that all men shall have equal abilities, ..or,
which will be much fafer, shall be born
dunces. In one word, if we are not fatis
fied. with that fort of equality we already
enjoy, I know no other species of it, that
ran fubftft one month, among mankind, ;
while natural talents, acquirements, and ac- ;
eomplifhments. are so Unequally distributed.
By thi& day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, February IJ.
We are happy in being able to confirm
the intelligence we stated on Tuesday res
peoling -the rclinqui£hment of the Polls on
the Mississippi, within the American line,
by the Spanish government at lead so far as
relates to the intentions for the purpose ; for
we were rather premature in fldting the bu
fmeft as already aeeomplifhed.—Thomas
Stoughton, Esq. his Catholic Majelly's
Consul f&r this, city, has received a letter
from his Excellency Don Gayofo De Lemos
the present Governor of N. Orleans, dated
the 18th of Jan. slating,. particularly, that
orders had been received fiom hit Majesty
for the immediate delivery of the posts, &c
and that preparations had been, and were
still making, for carrying these orden into
effed with every possible expedition.
_____ i
By a Gentleman who arrived at Wilming
ton N. C. in the schooner Phoebe, Ferry
froth Cape Nichola Mole, we are informed
that on the 25th Dec. last, 65 launches
were fitted, out, and manned with 900
soldier* and 200 men fromon board theEng
lifh shipping at the Mole. They proceeded
at 9, A, M. to the Platform, undef the com
mand of captain White, of the ship Carna«
tic, and at 4, P. M. commenced an a£lion,
which compelled the French to retreat. The
English then burnt the buildings, together
with 500 bbls. flour and other provisions,
burst their gunt, Itc. On their return, those
1 boats that were nearest the fliore, were fired
upon from thence with small arms, by a par
ty of the French who lay in ambush. One
iieut. and seven men were killed on board
the launches, besides several wounded. The
French had 18 killed and wounded.
Great preparations are making by our
fellow citizens of Philadelphia for celebrat
ing the annivtrfary of'the birth day of our
late illustrious President, and still illustrious
Citizen GEORGE WASHINGTON.
We are pleased to find that a fubfeription
is rapidly filling in this city for the fame
purpose. There is no place on the contin
ent where the fervicet ofthat eminent pa
triot are on stronger record.
Services like his, live long beyond the
time of their aflion : their happy confe
qnencei are felt and acknowledged by every
individual who partakes of the welfare and
prosperity of the country. His retirement
from public life renders the testimony of
gratitude more conspicuous; for in it, we
cannot be accused of lavifhiug flattery upon
a man in power: and the tribute must prove
more acceptable to hi' 3 noble and difinerefted
mind, from the confederation thac it-is the
spontaneous effnfion of the hearts of a peo
ple, grateful for those national blessings to
which he has so eminently contributed.
BOSTON, February 9.
I)ifpitche» from Williau Smith, F.fq, A
mericin minister at the court us Portugal, came
by the (feijt Madison, which arrived on Tuesday,
in 6a days from St. Ul;es.
COMMUNICATION.
''frith eloOdUJs splendor mcdefl Misst Jbines."
No enc»wiium mors deferveJiy beftowtd,
tan be found, than that contained in our mot
to- It is ajuft tribute to nnobtrufive merit.
The history of the in MafTichufetts
gave eccariou to the compliment, and the con
cise and elegant account ot' that important crisis
eQahlilhed forever the reputation of its author.
This gentleman his now ,-avoured the public
with ac< ntinuation < f the history of the pro
vince of MafTachufetts Jlay from the year 1748.
A dark pa'h has bc'-n illuminated by his pen,
advancing from explored periods of our ancient
hiflory, and approximiting to the glorious era
of our revolution. This volume invites the pa
tronage of the public by the nature of the task
and its able execution. Had th< fclfifh desire of
perfi nal emolument prevailed in bis mind, the
author might ha»e feletfled a more brilliant
period for the fwbitvU of his lucihrations, but
his difinttrefled motive* have induced him to
fupp'y this necrOiry and impcrtant link in ill*
chain of our hjftoi y, the eompi'ation of whith
is of the higfe I and 01 till have been .
attended with great personal lab-ur and mental
exertion. It is 10 b« u iftied that a learnrd and
culation of this r le£-n: woik v ill induce the 1
mcdrftan ! meriioiious author to continue his
•labours and idifplay that luininout part of our
history, in -.ihich the fplerdid as weJI as the ufe
ful mult the atf mion of evei v reader.
A FRIEND ip MERIT.
»• PITTSBURGH, Feb. ic.
We are inform? J, that a boat yard it now
iv ! erfflingat this place fcy oruer of govern- '
n j and capable hands employvd'fir build- !
d I iug large boats to csrry one JJ. pnunder J
is | each. We hare not heard for wh •' fcrviec ; j
y j they are intended, but think, it high tim?, i
is i that fame shew, at lead, of defence SiouM
o i be made, or we (hail soon be trampled on by
3- the Spaniards, as well as by our belov.-d ai- f
d lies. s
-■ ■ ■■ T -v
;; Xfie I
! c PHILADELPHIA,
'« - t
~ FRIDAY EVENING, FZBXU.iXT it
,e _ —"* r
A resolution to the following effe& pafT
rd the bouse of representatives of theUni- 1
>< ted States this morning. That M?fTrs. Grif
„ wold and Lyon Ihould be immediately tak.
' en intocuftody of the ferjeant at aims, u;i
---• j less they should refpeftively engage to re
-f , frain from all personal violence toward* each 1
I was entered into on the part of each. The
o j house adjourned at one o'clock, to Mon- I
day. i
r > I
Translated Extraft from a paper entitled
s _ Moniteur de la Louifiane, printed at New
Orleans, dated Jan. Is, 1798.
Jt " The Governor of this province having '
j ; received by the last Courier the orders of ■>
' his Majesty to evacuate the forts of Walnut c
j Hills and Natchez, immediately took pro
per measures for their execution, having r
~ sent off the necessary advices for Natchez." J
The above leaves no doubt of the impor
tant fa£l of the evacuation of our polls by A
the Spanish. The Gazette containing the !
article we have seen.
T1 n
f Extra& of a dated New-Orleans, Jan- 11
m uary. 16, to a pei'fon in this city.
"j Orders have been received from the court "
»» of Spain to deliver up the posts without a- 11
>r r.y delay, and the garrison of Walnut-Hil!
J- and Natchen will evacuate those places on
J' the news reaching them. The orders have
's come by the September Packet, via the
?r Havanna and have relieved the Governor *
>s from the greatefl difficulty he ever experien
d ccd.
it Tl\f deniareation'of limits will take place
y it is supposed in March. This information
:c ha» not yet been officially announced here, 5
re although an express was sent with the news
o two days ago to Natchez.
Tht following Resolution pajfed the Senate of
J- the United States on Wednesday lajl.
y Resolved, That the secretary of the trea-
d fury be and he is hereby directed to obtain *
cs from the collection of the customs of the
O principal colleiting diftri&s of the United
;■ States, an account exhibiting the number t'
d and tonnage of the veflels and the eßimat t
l- ed value of their cargoes that have been
i' captured or detained since the firft of Janu- C
f)» ary one thousand fev?n hundred and ninety
ie fix, from their fefpe&ive diftrifts, by or un- ;
rr der the authority of foreign nations, dif- |
t, tinguifhing the veffcls captured or detained
fe by each nation—and that the said secretary 1
:d lay the result of Ac informatiort so obtain- J
r- ed as soon si mav be before the Senate. u
ie ' t
"d The following is the form of a notice cir- c
ie culated at this time. It is without signature e
or date—the words in italic are printed. E
citizen, k
ir TOU ere requcjlcd t* meet a numier of your F
t- friends, Tuefdav the 13th infant, at the
jr hrufe of the Bird in hand in Race above 6th n
js street en important bujinef: at 6 o'clock. *■
i a
>n MR. FENNO, |
ie IT was not to he expefled that LlorD tub'' 1
i- Lyar to Bradford, wouldfnfftr , a
a- the chajlifement heflowed ly Mr. Grifwold on
Lyon, tupafs without fame of his Newgate ernbel- ! j
le lifhment. The account given by you in lafl even- j c
c- ln Z' s Gazette, is accurate as far as it goes ; ■
.y. but it omits the eircuteftance of Lyon's fe'ming X
|( j the tongs for defense, andalfo the attach made
lt by Lyon on Mr. Grifwold, after the termina
tien of the fracas. Sts to the toijs, the facts J
are thefe —Lyon, nfter undergoing, without an f,
in attempt at refiffance or defence, a handsome df-
IC cipliue from Mr. Grifwold's hickory, he hu-
manely avoiding as much as pojftlle to flrile his t
[e head, fought jhelter behind the Speaker's chair. a
3 _ Thither he was pursued by Mr. G. Like a p
confined cat, he now for the firjl time, made (|
feme shew of rejiflancc, and grasped the tongs. v
Mr. Grifwold then closed with him, threw t<
him down with one hand, took the tongs from
t. him, and with the ether, beat him until he was ''
ie taken off, and not, as Lloyd fays, ' until the i]
■'» combatants were separated.' It was literally
a chastisement, and not a combat, and f it
was intended { therefore Mr. G. was under ~
no kind of obligation to call on Lyon to take his
" f iik in hand, and Jlep into the area far aSion. ~
|, As to Lyon's wishing they had been left to fcjtle
t- the business in this way, it is an absurd and
t- barefaced falfhood. He knows Mr. G. could
" have beaten him to atoms, without his having
an opportunity of returning a Jingle blow. ri
r A few minutes after this exercise, Mr. Cl
j,. Grifwold retired to the south fde of the house,
~ and was iu the ad of taking u drink, with the
!!. tumbler in his hand, whin Lyon came, by fur-
1 > prise, upon him, and gave him one blow with >
11 a Jlick, Mr. G. having none. Lyon immcdi- £
'' ately retreated back—Mr. G's Jlick was put
■j. into his hand by Mr. Si/greaves ; when t num• *:
,f ber sos gentlemen immediately intcrpofed, the
ie House was called to brder, and Lyon pro'eP.ed c<
it from aftcond chaHifement more exemplary than
11 the JirJl. Poor Lyon then fat himfelf down by
0 the tub of ■water in which the dirty tumbhrs
° are waived, andfouked and cooled his la'.tered I
n ; face with his handkerchief. Here he aft eared 1 1
,1 forlorn and conhmptille indeed- nut a friend '
il approached or cajoled lim, lut even th. rank'
r- [ tfl foes to order and decency wre afhatned ej ■
c this brother and coadjutor, andpajfed him ly,
" to and fro, in filencc-and neghS. They had a]
done encugh io voting for him to djgrace then
felvcs, and wevlcf net now be fan is hisfiends
or temf anient.
0
From lit Amrritin Duily Afccrljtr*
Vcflrv C'aypocle,
1 HAVJK'Q obf rved in arii 'tc m voitr nao 11 i*
this mornir.jr, under tKehdad.of '® Another Fr into/
importing-. tivt !>y a Aate »»ent by the PrefiJe nt ®
the l.-faranee Gdftipany, itnp«<hr«, tha
i payments were made*, I etweCn the ift June, t79 {
, an-'l the 27th Pre m v cr, 1797, to the amount <>t
Dols. 93.6.19 11, for lofle* by British capt'Jfei*
Do. 108,77$ 51. for da by French do.
Permit nte to add, that it also appear*, from a
Aatement ef the Secretary of the lialtioiore h:fur>
atue Oomr*ury,that forotbt ift June, 1706, td
the cth January. 11*)%, [a shorter ptriod than th<
former, by more than ay. ar] payments wcremadd
to the imount of s
I)o-». 105,163 68, tor lofll'shy French capture*.
And I tint*trlViad, from the bi ft authority, that
no payment* hare bfrtt made during the httci pci«
u'C'l, for loffit hy }'riti(h captures, by the Balti*
more Iv.lurince Company.
Therefult will fond thus :
Between rhe it of Jure, 179s and 17'h Ded.f 797,
paid by the Maryland C . for UfTe b by
2nfer.;tic«; Coaipaay ( 93. .19 J Br.capture*
Ditr, hj ditto, t ®s-775 *brdo Fr.cap.
Dols. 15,136 40 exeefs of Fr«
Between the »&Tune, 1796, and sth Jan. 1798,
raW hy Ac' Baltimore 1 ' 68 } for French
Inmrancc Comp.-ny, J. j capture
Total »xc«fc of Fr. cap. ®S
lot il amour tof do do. 21.1,938 20
Total araouut ol Br cap. 9 i 619 II
Feb 14. ' INVHSTI»*TOR.
At a numerous meeting of the Citizcni
of the Diftrift of Southward, and town
ship of Moyamenfing, at the'ta»ern of Capt.
John Rice, Mr. Joihua Humphreys in the
chair
Rtfalutd, That wc wilt life our utmost ex
ertions to support Benjamin R. Morgan,
at the ensuing elc(3ion of Senator to repre
sent 'lie city and county of Philadelphia,
and county of Delaware ', being convinced
that at this time, peculiarly important, and
interi-fliug 10 alj the advocates of the ad
minillration of the government of the U
nited States, to support those who arc known
to >e the friends of order and good govern
ment, is a nieafure which our duty compel*
us to adopt. ,
J;/hua Humphreys, Chairman.
Peter Miercken, Sec'ry.
14th Feb. 1798-
/t a meeting of a number of the Citizens of the
city and county of Philadelphia, at Ogden'i
Tavern, on Tuesday, 13th February, 1798,
it luas unanimously refohved.
To support Be-njam'in R. Morgan,
at the ensuing Eieftion, as Senatbr for the
Diftrift, composed of the city and county
I of Philadelphia, and county of Delaware.
! LAWRENCE SECKEL, Chairman.
M. Keppele, Secretary.
Cj* A Stated meeting of the America*
Philosophical Society will be held at their
Hall at 6 o'clock this erening.
Feb. 16.
C?The communication signed A.Z. earn#
too late for this day. It (hall have plact
to-morrow.
GAZETTE MARINE LIS 7.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived on at Reedy-Island
the brig Fair American, Smith, from St.
Jago de Cuba, failed from thence the Bth
ult. left there the brig Aftive, Williams, of
this port, sent in on her pafTage from hence
to Jamaica. The day the Fair American fail
ed capt Williams arrived from the Cape with
an account of his vefiel being cleared. The
brijj Eunice, of New-York, sent in on her
pafiage to St. Jago, was also cleiied. Capt.
Smitli further informs that he undcrftpod
no veflels bound to Jamaica from the United
: States would in future be condemned, fior
| any bound to ports, not- termed rebel ports.
The Ariel, Tarris ; Diana, Pile ; and
Florida, Hoare, from New-York, are fafe
at {leedy-I/land.
February 15. •
k ARRIVED. ' DAYS
Brig Nancy, W»rth, Charlefloa
Schr. Mary-Ann, , N. Carolina
I Sloop Rambler, Sturges, George-Town
Seled Halls.
MK. FRA'NCIS, at the particular rrqueft of
the lubfcribers, intends to have four more
fiibfcriptiuß Balls.
TERMS
Ejch SuWcrihrr to pay Fine Doll :rs, which
! entitles liltitoi gentleman's ticket, and cards of
admission frr two ladies at each ball.
The firfi ball to be on Tuesday, the 10th of
Fe'irmry, and to be continued every Tifefclay
till the end of the I'gbfcr iption, at the end of
which fir. Francis propol'e. giving in extra hail
to the fishfcr.btrs.
Mr. Francis Mfpeflftilly informs those fen
tlenirti ivtia hjve not aheady fubferibed, that
the plan of the (iibfcritninn is to be seen at Mr.
F.'s hou!"-, No. 70 North l!ii;hth street.
Mr. F. likewise informs hi> Scholars, and th«
public in general, that liis fifth praHifiug Ball,
will be on Thurfd*y the aid iaft.
F K. tfi.
FOR SALin "
Schooner
t T ? R f E S 'STORS,
' ,'TttV E*rthen a j tons, t«o yens oli
. built of the l>e't m •tvriala, and
' ready tojerrive a c r Z n ' Sa d v«£To! may be
eH at Mr. Ssmu 1 ' Brewer's whirl, Keidinj'ou.
ALSO,
H A R R /E T, .
Burthen 7 1 ons, three yeaM
old, is well found ; may be vk:vr«
cfti .1 Alclir*. i'c'trl affd Bay ird'f wharf.
Those Vclfcli arr *eJI r 'cul.i;ed !er Coaflrr# t
and havi been employed in the trade bet wren Phi
ladelphia and New York—i hey havi cxcclicni ac
coo.mod-tioo'v for Paffrngers.
For terms, ajiply to »
Gurney ss* Smith.
Vebrmry 16. . §
l"he managers of the City Danc
'.<:g AIT mlily jive notice that the annivirfjry Ball
0 ' ommrmni te the birth ol Gioaot WashikO'
1 on, will be I eld at Mr Riikets's Circus, the
ui>.n t 1 eb. 11. Staid
FOR SALE,
A quantity of CAI-F SKI NS, in the rough,
and some horft Icithe". Apply to
ROKKKT SMITH & C •
No. <B, South Front Or* t.
T:k ij. divfHouse and Lots, in BirJte.itmvit.
'I'O BE SOLD, a haiulfome two story House, (\
A with the Lot on which i 1 is <-rrftrd, situat
ed il -• middle of the beautitul and liraithy T
V ..age of liordcniown. The hoafe is tarty 1
tw 'ft in front, and in neat order. The In! D
ont'acre, hundred teet on w
the rniin street, asd extend, with the fame in
breadth to bjck .ireet. All*, a large Lot, con- j
taining nearly four acrei, separated from the la
f i nerby back street. One third only »f the n '
pir 'ia r e money will be required upon «xecut- P'
ill J a deed, ar.d for the remainder, such credit Q
w II be given as the purchaser may chufc. Thii
prop -rty will be fold free of all iiicumkranoes, _
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnts, reliding in Bordentown, near ,
the prtmifei, who will lhew the lame, or of
PETER THOMSON, \
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-llreet.
Deremher i. jiwtf
iialillsury Eltate. J
•"I"'HE Subscriber, proposing t» contrafi hii b.U
---1 ness, offers this Elltte for fala, ua mod*rate
terms. Oq it are one fllaft and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift ,r
MiH, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfcA repair, as are all the Water Works connect- r.
Ed wi:h these variom branches. The Air Furnaces °
were lately built tor the purpose ps carting Cannon if
tm th<s Stale.—There are about two thou laud acres a
of Lind, one half of which is under wood, the other ti
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and p
failure. The Cannon lately mannfaclured there, 1;
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal 3
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns : p
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
into 31 pounders, have faiWd on proving. The ti u-
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufaftur-, and a place ot arms lying in the state _
of Co«neaiput,and only 30 miles from several land,
sogs on the Hudson's river,and having every advan
tage that can relult from a plenty of water iffjing
from a Urge natural pond, very near the Furnace, c
and whLh may be converted into a variety of other f
uteful pui poles. The purchaser can be accommodat- I
ed with all tlje ftoek and utedfils, and have poffedion C
00 or before the firft of June next, and preparation t
nay be made in the mean time for going ir;to Blall im- ,
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. See. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, ECq. one of ihe Reprefentawvcs
Ui Coigrefs lor this Stale ; Mr, B.vid Waterman, on a
thepremifes, or to the prop'ietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON. ,
Dee. 1. t
Ti Cabinet Makers, Joiners, £sV. |
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine- Hreet, neir the New-Market,
RETURN rlunks to their friends and the '
public, for their liberal encaaragement, 1
And hope, by their unremitin; attention, to J
merit a cantinuince of their favors. The part
nerfhipbetween them and Joseph B.Barry, has
been diflolved by mutual consent. Cavanagh
and Hearn havejuft received a quantity of St.
Domingo and Honduras Mahogany, which they
intend to fell 011 very reafonahle terms for cash.
Orders from the country most punflually exe- !
cuted. Vincers of all kinds cut a* ul'ual.
Jan. ij. 1.1W4W
Recently Publi/hed,
Ami jud imported from England, by William
Griffiths, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Moro vN J Rukes,
\ Cheap and valuable work, in two olofely
printed volumes ,in Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
Illustrations of Prophecy :
In which are elucidated many prednStions, which
occur in Isaiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evan
gailfti, and book of Revelation ; which arc tho't
to foretell among great events, a revolution
In Yranc;, favora'.ile to the interests of mankind,
tie overthrow of the papal pow«r and of eccleft
afiical tyranny, the downfall of civil dtfpotifm,
melioration of thf (lat« of the
world : together with
A large eollcflion of Ext rafts,
laterfperfed through the work, and taken from
numerouscommentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede, Sir lfaac Newton,
Vitringa, Mr. William Lowth,
Dr. Th.Goodwin, Fleming,
Dr. Hem j More, Bingelius,
Dr. John Owen, D?.u?>uz,
Dr.Creffener, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, l.owman,
Brenias, Bilhop Newton, and
Biihop Chandler, Bishop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of in
this work,and numerous illustrations of prophecy ;
it conMins a eonfiderable number of fads or ob
servations on the symbolic languige of prophecy,
the authen icitv, uses, and ebfeurity of the apo
oelypfe, and thegenuinemfs of the Hebrew pro
pbcti; on the rapid corruption as christianity in
the fourth cen'ury ; on the difperlion and reflora
tien of thj Jews, the history of the falfe MefEahs
who have appeared auiong them, and the rtafons
infupport of the conj flure that the Afghans ire
the dsfcendants of the ten tribes ; on the right of
r*Qftance to oppreflion; on the Irruptions of th«
■orthern nations, and the catifes of the decline and
fall of the Roman empire ; on the cufloms of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ; on
tlie .conquetVs of those nations, and those ot the
Turks ; on the usurpation of the Mamalukes, and
the past history and present state of Egypt • on
the chara&cr andcondaS of Conftantinc, Jutlini
n, Clovi«, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
books in the dark ages, and the causes of the de
dine of literature ; on th« rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the canfes of its iall; on the in
eonfiflencics in the political charaifters of bishops
Newton and Hurd; on the peculiarities of Dr.
Th Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the beneficial
efTeds which christianity has produced in favor ot
learning and civil liberty, and its tendency to pro
mote the eftablifhmi-nt ef equal governments.
ludependent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in these volumes, those who are
Ictcrefted in thefubjeS will, it ispiefumed, wilh
toperufe or confultthem, because the extra&s in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited,and
marked with inverted comraas, are taken from a
greater n*mbor of writer* on the prophecies (a',
least if the roman cathclic commentators be ex
cluded) than are eafilj accessible to any one indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probibly to be found
in any on* li:rary in the world. They are fnr
nilhed with indexes, and a eo ious table of con
tents. J 3n **—lawaw
Imported in theftiip Man chaster,
Benjamin Shkweli, Matter,
From Bourrleaux, and forfale by the subscriber,
No. 11. Walnul St eet.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~j
Irish market darst in cafci ( Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. | Drawback.
Sauterac, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatroyd.
who has for sale.
Sherry Wine in pipes aud quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
40CO buflwls Liverpool fait.
Aug. tut&stf.
W. Haydon
Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(WJ ere he ha» ttudud i-veral years under one of A
the-moft eminent millers in that science)
his friend*-, that he has re-commenc
ed hi* private tuition.—Tcriu», as usual, Six Q
Dollars j* r month, far attendance three times a q
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
iug, fruit, flow*rs, &c. taught on &he above terms.
W, H. flatters himfclf hi# terms will Ip particu
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as
he makes no additional charge if thero are two
pupils in one family.
Aline dir«&ed to W. H. left at the office of this
Gizette, will be immediately attended to.
January j. $*W
~ To Be Sold,' 1
AGREEABLY to the last will and teilamein of cc
William Hkysham, deceased, and poflVf-
fion given immediately, a valuable property in Arch ti
street, between Third and Fourth ft.eets, consist- &
ing of the house, No. 107, with the lot on which p
it is ere&ed, a liable, and other improvements.— ci
The house is -10 feet front, and contains ten good a
apartments. The lot 16 of the fame breadth as the
house and 309 feet deep, with a well of water and Ci
a very capacious walled ciftcrn, both with pump* 4
in goop repair. The {lable (lands on the rear of d
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car- j
riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 26 feet court and an alley, *8 feet wide,extend-
icg to Cherry Street. It* central position and the „
advantages it poflfefles with refpeA to free ventila- 0
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any I
perfen wi-Qiingto poffefsan eligible property in Phi-
ladeiphia, a
For furthc* particulars enquire at No 88, Vine ,
Street—of
Robert Ueysham,
or > Adling Executors. a
Francis Bowes Sayri, J i
January 11 ft
The Subscriber '
INFORMS thof; whom it may interest or con- j
cern, thac ths Judg.s of the Csurt of Common ,
leas have appointed Afw Jay, the tiuenty-Jixib day of j j
Febyuary ts hear him and his Creditors, at the j j
Court-houfi; in this city, on the fubje<3 of hi* pcti-
tion (ol the benefit of thje Infolvcnr Law —and
that their attandance is deSred.
JAMES GRESNLEAF. ,
riilaJriplie, Jin. 16. eotl6thF ,
The Subscriber intends to make '
application for the ienewa! of a Certificate of * Shore
m the Bank of the Unite J States,[(landing in the name
of A. B. No. 5&04, dated July ft, 1797, the fame
having been 1011. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1.
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom be i« indebted, that hit
books, which have been kept open for their infpsc
tion since Desamber 1796' are balanced to the 31ft
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
their further inveftigatlon and fnutiny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. ilk 1795.
All Persons
Having any demands aga'mft the E,Aate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are reqnefied to
bring in their accounts pioperly ittefted, on ar
before the firft day of January noxt ensuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are so
ticited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
. H»V. »9 1797. 4
NOTICE. ~~
ALL persons who have any demands aga'mft
the estate of Willam FleevttOOD, of
l Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
. ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
1 to the fame, are desired to make immediate
, payment, 10
GEO. DOBSON, ) 4/im : n :i, r > r
No. 2s, So. Third-ftseet. J Adm,ni J lr r
January 4. ' dtf
Surveyor General's Office,
, December 2, 1797.
ON a release of survey of 433 acres,6B perches
of land, Cjuate in lower Smithfield township
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of ad March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hoaring of the parties on the a' ove civeat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
»t lead thirty days notice for John Hall, Secretary
n of the Land Office.
: N. Lufborough.
r January 16 §tiFiwtm
>• Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
is Pine-Jlreet, near Fifth.
18 January 39 diw
Genteel Boarding and JLodgirtg
To be had at a moderate price—lnquire a
ls No. 138, Arch-street.
i„ Jan, a?. d2w
d To be fold,
>n AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
i- £\. ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
if (lory brick House aud Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, See. fifcuate on the Irifli trad lane, in the
:h township of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
1- the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
3s bo m.ide known upon application at the olHce of
r. the Philadelphia Gazette.
al The improvements upon this plaae, Cor taste and
V- elegance, (land unrivalled.
►- Dacember I. dtf
re PROPOSAL.
Ih TTAVfNG met with a liberal pa'ronaje, the
JLjL Subscriber is emboldened to ifiue proposals
>d for printing hy fubfjription. the JOURNALS OF
a CONGRESS, from their firt meeting in 1775,t0
a", the present time.
x- This work (haH be printed with a new type,
'i- made for the purpose ; and cn good paper. It
>d will he delivered at ole dollar per volume (o&a
-- vo) in 6 v«!s.—cafh to \ c on delivery
n- It isneedlcfs to fay any thing of the merits of
this undertaking—the scarcity of the Journals
throughout the United S ates, is fufficicnt to jufti
'' fy th« printer in his hope of meeting with that
success, which he is certain the drferve*.
r » JOHN PARKER.
Jan. 17. d 6t
o Jor Sale by the Subscribers,
■ Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bout tie au x Brand}
Tenet-iff: Wine
\le!ajes
Georgia etni Carnlinn Indigo
Ravenj Duck and one hogjbead of paiit
brujhts.
N. is* J. Frazer.
I No. fj, Soptjb Front Street.
Nov. 7. dim.
PROPOSALS, J
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTS! ,
A NEW AND FN TIRE STING WO*K, ENTIT»HD,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a derail of the various crimes and ir.if
demeanors, by which public and private proper
ty,,are. at present, injured and endangered :
And fuggetling remedies for their prevention.
BY ▲ MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the counties of Middiefex, Surry, Kent,
aud EAex ; for the city and liberty of Wcftmin
fter ; and sos the liberty of the Tower of Lon-
don.
'/» tbofn iubo have read this curious and valuable worl,
H iviU need m recommendation—they know its solid merit
—hut as it bat hithertn got into very ft w bands in this
country, if -will net be amiss to obferve —so great 10as the ll
approbation and demand in London, that it pafftd through
three large editions in the courje of twelve months. As a
detail of the ingenious varieties if fraud, that endanger
property in London, ard moji other overgrown and opulent
citia, it cannot fa:( to afford the reader great mterteinmfnt
as well at inf.ruclion ; bat as the author traces all tbcfe
enormities to a few, and intbemfelvcs % incmftderable caus
es, many of which afluallf exiji in all the large capitals of
the United States, the business is brought home to our <nv%.
doors ; and the work has an incrtafina tlaitn to our atten
itveberufal.
To ajjijl the legiflaior and the magiflrate in the humane
office of preventing crimes, and their eoafequent punifh
mcnts, was the patriotic deftgn of the author. *' Private
offences, he fays, are the foitrce if public crime*, and the
bcfl method of guarding society the latter is, to make
proper provi'\ns, for cheeking the former"— 11 Thcfe men
are easily seduced from their loya'ty who are apoflatetfrom J
virtue**
CONDITIONS*
This work will be printed in a large o&avo, on
an excellent Engiifh paper-—lt will be delivered tt
fubferibers, bound in boards, at tUe moderate price
of One Dollar and a half 1 tkhough the lad London
edition, o* inferior paper and meanly bound, t% f
now feld at »wo dollars and a half. To non-sub- j (
fcribers the price will be rnifed.
Whatever encouragement maybe given by sub- I
fiription, it will be committed to the profs without |
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for j *
publication early in April.
will he thankfully received at
Benjamin EXaviesVs botok-ftoie, No 68, High
ftreet., and by moil of tha other bockfellersin the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Brummond, in Kcw-Ysrk.
January 31. aawtA
ROSS y SIMSON, * ;
HAV? FOE SALE, j
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and :
a quantity of Bengal GOTTEN
Bengal SUGAR, in bags mi hoaes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, V RUM.
•nd Bengal }
300 caflts RICE, ;nd
A parcel of (hip building RED CESAR.
Oft. 27. §
To be Exchanged for
BriliJh, German, or India Goods,
IN THE PACKAGE ;
A tr&ft of valuable Land
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland ee.
and containing 10,300 Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
Tin. 15. $
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpeft, returns her (incere ac
. knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, Jhe has made a fiiperior arrangement for
the Me convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of -ufeful and polite
education it particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in ftieir
. refpeflive profeifions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streeti.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The situation is perfectly healthy: and made
, more agreeable by an txtenfive garden and lot
, of ground adjoining the house.
- ~ FOR SALE, AT
j Wm. Young's Book Store,
_ Ne. Second street, the earner of Chelhuc street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Reprefentativesof the United States, appcint
r ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLIAM BLOUNT, a Senator of the 1
United States, impeached of high crimes and mif
~ demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houfoof Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit dtiring the reeefs of Congreft, and
inftruiSling them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
_ " means, to discover the whole nature and cxt nt
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" Hands impeache., and who are the parties and
" affociatestherein."
Printed by order of the House of Representatives
December 20 §
French Circulating Library.
r JQJEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
> No. lir Walnut-street,
1 TNFORMS those who wish to recur to the only
1 means perfeil in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
fiding of upwards of 1500 volumes, the bed cal
culated to afford either uftfui inttru&ion, or plea
i. sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
0 of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
lc in town.
Ie n. b. All translations from and into the French,
n Englifli and Languages, execu:ecl with ac-
JJ eurac> and dispatch. eoi m nov. 15.
5f Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
d No. 74, South Second-Jireety
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now •pemng for sale, on
r°afomble terms. Q& 11 •—4w
This Day is i'ublilhed,
BY NfeiT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric $ and the
J e othef Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
1 Elegantly printed on IVuve paper, and Hot
ftrejfcd,
By John Thompson,
A COMPrtR\TIVE VIEWOF
The Gonftitutions
)f Of the several States with each other, and with
It that of the Ifpite'd States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
it clalTing together their most impwtant provifionn,
a. tinder the several heads of j with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
pec, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
Employment for the Poor.
' FLAX rot SPINNING,
To be given out every second, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of ic»and 12—
back of no. 5% south Fifth ftrwt, ahove Sprtic«-
ftre*. eodaw
James C. Samw-el W. riflier. 1
AT THE;s STORE.,
corner of Arch and Front flreet. ij
B/trE FOR SALE, _
Cotton and worHed Hosiery in trunks, afTored
A few hales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Dirto futty romall Handkerchiels
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafe ditto 51
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taff ties C
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chetts heft Hyson Tea
Alfo-—isQO hoxt s bed London Window Glass, ™
from Bby6,t© 19 by 14—a»d 15 hhds. Glass a
Ware assor ted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city. *
Nov 18 ■ Jtawtf
Imported (via New York) on the u
ffiip Hero, from Madias and Calcutta, and for '
sale by the fubftribtr, at N'». 61, Chftnut street, ■
between Second and Third Streets t"oe follow- .
ing artich s . i
Miharagonges Charconira Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes Uacca worked muflir.s t]
Gillis RomaU Bmdannoes
Nillas Sc. Penfiafocs Chafla Romals n
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MullMullhankerchiefs Palemporcs
Pstna do. Opium
LeiTcr Cardiauin Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox. j jj
noveruber 47 tuths4W I b
Valuable Books, d
Just received by the Fai* American from 1
London, and now opening and felling by 1 c
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street. j,
CATALOGUES „
Of the newly impnrtedbooks mayhe had gra- t
tis. These added to O's ufnal flock, form an I
cxtenfive and elegant of ancient and c
modern literature, and t otnprife hooks in fun- ' }
I dry languages and on various fubje&s.
7his Day is Published,
I By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handfnmely 1
bound and lettered, and embellished with an s
elegant frontifpicce and l'eventy three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind, ■
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable collegian ef interelling and
inifcellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy eftefls »f youthful in
nocent and Slial aßeilion—ln prose and verse.
Defigncd to improve and a/nufe the rising gene
ration.
In the Prefj, and will be speedily psbHSicd,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subferiptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book \
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
firinted with a new type on fine paper, and de
ivered to fubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embelliQied with an elegant frentifpitce, for onfc
dollar.
January 3.
" rv ' v /or sale, Mr j
William Priestman,
129, South Frent-fireet, next door to tha Cuf
tom-house,
A large assortment of
Gold and silver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guus, by Mortimer, maker
[ to the King of England
I Ditto, by Parker
Piir duelling Piftois, by Knubley, Charing
Croft
r Refieiting Telescope, by Ribright
r rtox of patent Medicines
! 60 lb. Scotch Thread
Small collection of valuable Books, and
r Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787.
e Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
' Invoices or parcels of Watehes bougjit.
January 4. d?t
School Books and Stationary,
'j W. Y O UN G,
No. ffc, corner of Chefnut-ftroet,
it T TAS now ready for fate, a very large affort
ie jLJL ment of Englijb, French, Latin and Greek
f- SCHOOL BOOKS. Also„ fu<ch elementary books
>f on Science, as arc generally read in the
rd and colleges throughout the United States.
ei LATELY fUBLISHID,
II Sh?ridan*s DiAionary, the sixth edition, in one
it large vol. Bvo price 3 dols.
Xt Ditto, large limo price idol 75 «rs.
id Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All fqrts of drawing, packing, printing, and
.j writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards Paftebeards,
(heathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
~ blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ©f
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office. I
Catalogues of a miscellaneous collection of
|y BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
im by inquirinyg|< above. 061.24- —3aw6w
j." Yellow Fever and Pestilential
>- Difeal'es.
', e THIS DAY IS PU&MsrtED in one vol. oflavo.
By William Young, Boolfeller,
h No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chefnut tlreet,
c _ ( Price, in boards .8712 Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
- Paper,
A VIEW
s Of the Science of Life ;
in On the principles eftahlilhed in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attesnpt to corrcil some important ei
c rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly felefled from the records of their praftice,at
lt the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tates & Chas. Maclean.
To which i> fu'oj«ined, a Treatise on the ailion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion f'or the cure of diseases of indireil debility.
Andadifiertation onthc sources of Epidcmicand,
t [, Peftilentialdifcafesj in whichisattemptedtoprove
, s by a numerous induction of faifts, that they ne
ver arlfe from contagion, but are always produ
ced bj> certain slates, or certain viciffitudee of
th' the atmofpliere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Nov. 21. si*t
Wanted, to Hire,
• Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
L\. the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will begiven; to be taken for a year, or on
x " more for a longer fcern». Inquire ef the Printer.
OS. j7. cots
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BT
SIMON WALKER,
9- Pine, near Frfith street.
December 2?. iw
The cargo of the Weft-liu'.ian fro»
Jamaica, landing at South Street wbanf,
136 lihds. and 300 barrels choice CoUce
98 Hhds of prime Sugar
29 Hhds. of Rum,
Ff sale By
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OEFERS FOR SALtj
Lbs of Java Coffee
800 Bags do. Sugar
Cloves and/mace in boxes I
A quantity of Hifpaniola Cocoa
Ked P*rtWineiit pipes and hogsheads
Madeira do. in pipes
February 6 d2weotca
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
j Who has been a considerable time on the
miflion in the country parts of the ftateof Pana
fylvania, gives this natice to any extensive pro
prietor of land within the said state, and border
ing on either the Potomack, Sufqaehanna, or
Juniata rivers ; that he is enabled to make a fat
tlement with from fifty to one hundred and fif
ty families, if due encouragement be . flered.—
For further information, apply to the Rev. Leo
nard Neale, Willing's Alley.
Feb. 8- *.t
o3* Stop th* Runaway.
ABSCONDED from his matter's employ, in the
city of Philadelphia, ou the sth of this in
stant Fcbimiry, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
bout s feet 6 or 7 inches in height, and of rather
a spare make ; his phifiognomy is,vacant but no;
disagreeable ; his age is fuppofei to be about 40. m
He had on when he went away, a (hort bllie cloth
coat, (Iriped caflimere reft, corduroy breeches,
and yarn stockings of a blue and white mixture
he took with him a blue cloth great coat, the caps
of which 19 edged with yellotf binding ; a long
brown cloth coat ; a fltort blue cloth coat with
buff coloured cape and cufjs ; aSfo, a pair of blue
cloth breeches ; the other eloathw he took with
him cannot be particularly deferibed.
It is supposed, he intends going to the eaflern
(bore of Maryland. Whoever will appreheDd, aud
secure the said negro in any gapl, so that his matter
may get him again, or bring him home, ihall have
a reward of twinty dollars.
Apply to the Printer.
February 7. 5
FOR SALE,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Co.
No. Z, Chilnut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst wkich are,
Ourrahs Mamoodies
Sannas
(ruiz nabs Tanda ColTaes
Curries Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkttchitfi
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
manufa&ures of Patna.
Decern!*: r 1. §
Insurance Office of the Stafe of
Pennsylvania.
February 1, 1798.
THE Directors have this day declared a dividend
of seventy dollars oxl each {hare of the flock of th*
company, for the latt fix months, which will be
paid to the Stockholders or their legal reprofcata
tives
JAMES S. COX, Prtfidti*
February 1.
For Sale.
THE Subscriber offers for sale th« property now
occupied by him in the town of Weft-Cheflor
and county of C hefter. It consists of a well finifbod
two story {lone house, 43 feet front, by about 40
deiji, tour rooms on a floor, with cieled farrcts,
; ati I a cellar under the whola—A very good ftoae
Stable and Coach houle-«-And a lot of Cround,
three pere'ues wide, by twenty perches depth.
The house (lands on the Main street; its situation
is high and very handsome; the lot oxtends to a
back ftrec, on which the (table andcoaoh house
(land. The lot is in a high (late oi cultivation,
. and there is in the yard a pump of excellent water,
_ which has, at no time, been known to fail.
The lituatiou of the town is high, and remark
ably healthy—the country around it, fertile and
beautiful.
The terms of payment will made to suit the
purthafvr. They, and the price, will be fettled,
upen application to Mr. Jonathan Sm tb, at 110.
149, South Third-ilrcet, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
February 5. mwftf
City Commiffioner'* Office,
•k January \itb, 1798.
S FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITiZrNS.
:s r following arrangement is made by the
X said commiflioners, for cleansing tbe
streets, &c.
e Diftriift No. 1. —From the north fide of Viae
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperintsndance of Nicholas Hick*,
2 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
'• the south fide of Ghefnut ftrreet, to We under the
s ' fupcrintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
1 the norih fide of Spruce street, to be uuder th*
,r fuperintendanee of Joseph Claypoole.
j 4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
j south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendanee of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
1 Landing this day,
From on board th« fchoonerTwo Friends, Dab*
iel Crawley, Matter,
[Jamaica RUM,
'• - FOR SALE BY
n George Latimer & Son.
ttouember 9. £
60 Dollars Reward.
1,5 T) AN AWAY fr«m the fiibfcribcr, onthea4tk
JL*V of December, 17P7> a Negro Man, abotlt %%
years old, by th? name of Cato, he is abent S f«et
r " 7or 8 inches high, midling well proportioned;
f - has a very coarse voice, his fore teeth (lard very
it far apar:; there were one or two with hitn—l
cannot rightly describe the cloatrs he took witl*
/. him, for he took two or thee suits ;he had on
in when he went away, a pair of kersey trowfers, a
j. half worn drab coloured coat, 9 half worn vrocl
y_ hat ; he took with very good fliirw—l
( Jxpcfl he has made for Philadelphia or the liTfcys.
/e Whosoever takes up said negro and secures ham, Co
that the owner may get him again, (hall have the
j above reward, pai.l by me, JOHN MOORB,
Living in St ill Pond, Kent county, Maryland,
j. Tanuary *6t2aw
Chocolate and M.iiftard,
of a fcperior quality manufaflnred, .
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; (helled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia P* rter. Beer*
us Ale and Cyder ; Taunton ar.d Burton Ale ;
in London Porter ; red. Port and Lilbon Wine,
suitable for exportation or home consumption.
The highest piice given for Muflard-.Seed.
Also forfait., A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of coJors ; a bsloaf
Fustian,, Shawla, &c, for sale hv
JOHN HA WORTH,.
No. 98, south Fient-flrfe*.
OOV. 27. ci At.'k.t.lJ.