Baity Advertiser.
Number 1847.J
%'* The price of this Gazette is eight
Ihllaxs a year.—Subscribers ivho reftde at
J a d'ijUr,cc. fi-om the ploxe of publication, and
ivktfe papers are sent per pofl, pay fx
month's J'ubfcription in advance, and one
dollar annually for encloftng and direEling
their papers. The payments to be always
fx months in advance.
FOR SAVANNAH,
The faft-failing and welll acco
», f~ rnodated (hip
SWIFT-PACKET,
Patrick Gribben, master
®-«e»»gjS«S&aaß Now lying at the upper fide
los Wa>ln.ut-flreet Wharf. Will fail witfy all
convenient fpeed—for freight or passage apply
the matter on board or
N. yy. FR.IZIER,
A'og j, South Front-Jlreet-
Who have for falc, <
A quantity of PRIVtE RICE in whole and '
half tierces.
august 4 siw '
s|* The Packet is remo- i
red to Clifford's wbarf, between market and 1
Arch ft rest •—She is now ready lo receive Freight,
aud will fail for Savannah on TvtelUay next, the j
14th inftaut :
Ten tierces Bice, marked A. P. was landed :
on bpard the said Clip ; rhe owner is r ecu ell- <
«<i '■*> -l-'i-'j" '"wr .h.sv, t.; ?.>- 3j, \Valnut street. «
-August 8 §ll4 i
For Sale. :
THF. .Sußscnr<tKß, intending to decline the [
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
;yv:hok 9:c«k of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, Sic. 1
T.he {hop is elegant, commn(!">us, and fuCfici
ently known for the extensive business cone in the
wholcfale an 1 retail line ; the situation equal to -
any in the city, being at the col ner of Walnut and
Second (Ireets. The whole, or any part of the
JS to ck, will be fold, as will belt suit the purchafcr.
TJia UWns may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, juNs
Wko has For Sale, t
for the river'trade— I
The Peggy, about 30 tons burthen, £
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in e
gopd order. v
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails -
well, and incomplete order fprthelumberbufinefs.
Ail perfofls indebted to the late firm of
Geldtbivait (5* Baldwin, W. B. Goldthwait, Gotd
thiuait hf Moore, or the fubferiher, are carneftly j
requefled to make speedy payment to ,
JAMES MOORE, juv. »
august 3 §
For Sale or Charter,
. THE SHIP
LENNOX;
JUijf> Burthen about two hundred tons»
almoli a new vefTel, having perfor
*med only two wha'ing voyages ; is
newly and the Hull put in compltat order,
with two new masts. The (hip is sharp built, and
foils rcm*ikably fait '1 he timbers, plank, See mull ~
be well filled with oil from the business in which (he
has been employed, and of course mud be very dur
able. Shoukl v»ny per (on incline to purchase the ship
for a whaling voyage, they may. be accommodated /
with ail the imp ements iieceifary for whaliog, two 0
boats, &c.
Jf/fo —For Sale >
A Cargo of excellent Oil,
in casks that are lull bound with iron hoops, and in
excellent order for (hipping.
ALSO—
A few thousand wt. of Whale Bone.
Apply on boa id to capt Timothy Long, at the
still house whajf, or to the fubferiber,-corner of Arch 5c
and Sixth street. JOSEPH BALL. Ic
■i' j| y 3'- 2,4,;,9,i',»3A jc
To be Sold,
An elegant and convenient House,
In Qhrfnutjlreet, next door to ll>e.Bar,iof North Ameiricj.
"J HE is thirty by one hunc.red and seventy
eight. The Hcmfe has been thoroughly repaired
Within a few months Apply to the Printer.
' 8 §
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of rcmaikablyfineMADElßA WINE
.fitter immediateafe, and at a icductd price—For
■k'-by ' JAMES YARD
' u| y a6 - u s
A Doctor is wanted,
*BR A SHIP BOUND TO CANTON.
Apply at No. aj, Dock street.
3 ulv 3° jiw
.c 3* Should a gentleman, a na- Cf
Jive of Teneriffe, who haj been known in Americaby
•he name of Lewis Martin Cevel at one t'tne, and at
another by that of Lewis Cevel Pelljfer, be alive, and &p
will apply to Janes Barry, of Baltimore, he will
hear ot fomethiug highly to his intcrett. Or fhonld
ne be dcccafed, any person who will add re fs a cert i-
•tncate of his deat'-, properly authenticated, will be re
warded with trusty dollars, by applving as above.
Mr» Pel lifer is juppofed to be lome where in the date
»of Mairachufetts. W
T. W
iiatkenridge—lor lale J Sn
IT consists of 910 acres, ilmoft all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidencaof the latci s O ,
Esrl of Stirling). It may be conveniently dixided f, a
into five farms, four of which arc bounded oil the ■
Ea>T by the rivet I'atiick.
Thn-i* are on it a uum'-er of buildings, forming tU ,'
a square of nearly three acres—The d welling house ~
■is a Turyronvenicßtoiie would
put it in complete repair. ,fr
The,orchard coniiftsof 15OP fin'<bearingeograf.
Cd-Apple Trees—and there is on <-f,crinrtsoffaiJ
near 300 other Apple I'rees as also a greit f ,
.variety «!, other fr:iits, particularly Cherries of the
bcit and mo ft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of bca,utiful Exotics and '{!'
Eoreft Treos, th3t add to th« beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
fr«ra Morris-Town, and n from Springfield It an<
is wooded and watered. '<■>»
1 o.favc trouble, the: price is five pound pr. acre f' 3
in caJh, on delivery of the deed*. Vlcafc to «n- ' tr
T. McEUEN & Co. P ! '«
No. 73, Chefnut treet. Cl
obruary ». eo , Jti
PHILADELPHIA.• MONDAY EVENING, JUGUSF 13,' 1798.
h _{ Boston Glass,
THE Companv now engaged Sn carrying op
.the Glass IVTmufailory, wi.h , ..al'ureafforo
- ihs public, thejr I'.ive at length brought the oiifi
nefs into a situation rli.it wiil i.llnw then}"to pror.:ilT'
<ie a ftriel puniluality in the execution of all orders,
and a funeriority in ths glass they manufaaure to
0 any imported.
ys I'hcir Agents, JUeffrs. Joseph Anthony and
Co. of Philadelphia, will receive and tranfnut to
_ the Company, ord-. rs from any part of the Sout
h— em States, and will contraA for the delivery of
the Ghfs, on terms as teafonable as could he pro
cured from *he Company rliemfeiv es.
] tt.-erf and orders direded to Charta F. Kupfir,
at the .works in Boftony fhail meet the ftri«ae£t at
tention. ,
N. li. They cut of any fi2e from 6 by 8 to 13
| e by inches.
11 7 '7 lawjm
y M O T ICE.
WHEREAS it is enaiied by the 7th fedion of
■' an ail to augment the army ef the Unit
ed Star as and for other purposes," pafled the 16th
of July, i 79 g. That the Prefidene of the United
States be, and hs hereby is authorised to appoint a
n-ambcr not exceeding four, t:acheh> ef the arts
and sciences necelTary fpr the inilrudioti of the
artillerists and engitjeers, who (hall be entitled to
the monthly pay of fifty dollars, and two rations
d per day.
t, NOTICE 13 THEREFORE GIVEN to those
e gentlemen who are oual/fied and defirou? to engage
as teachers upon the terms exprelTed in the said
d trdt, of the Sciences to the artillerists and
eog.tiiters, to tor.v:\rd their applicatifensand recom
mendations to tbe'fecrstjrry fjr the ijepartmenr of
Wl,r - '• ■ ' 'tm- y~' -
Tfce sciences nsoft ueculturfta ttfe rtrt.," :r iSs .-a
engineer,, are the feve/-aj.branch-~ of trii niathe
. rnatics, particularly gunneryjluvtificalion, hydi au
e lies, hydroflatics, ar;d th« calculations of masonry,
timber, &c. also mineralogy, military architec
ture and designing.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War.
: i u, >' -^r
-1 Artlllerijls Pocket Companion.
Jull Publifhcd,
A SYSTEM for the Discipline of the Artil
lery of the United Starts of America, or
the Young Artillerists Pocket Companion,
By Colonel STEVENS,
, An officer in the Artillery through the whole
of the late revolution, and since in the militia—
price 1 dollar and xz r-z cents. Sold by ROB
£R 1 CAMPiiELL £3* Co. (lately removed
from No. 40, South Second Street, to No. 30,
| Chefnut street) who have for ftle, a very gen-
eral afTortment of Books and Stationary on the
very lowest terms, by wholesale and retail,
august 1
TO BE LET,
r And immediate possession given ;
A Large convenient, well finiflied house, No
High-ftreet, lately occupied by Doc
tor Wiftar, with Coach house and Stable 6
Enquire of WJXXIJfat SHEAFF,
No i(>S, Higb-Jlrcet.
' J
* FOR "SALE, by
John Miller, Jun.
I NO. 8, CHtSNUT STREET,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour
j"'y 19 §_
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Garradarries,
of the ncweft and mofl approved pat terns,entitled
to the drawback, just received,
ANa» FOR SALE BY
Jlex. J. Miller & Co.
No. South Front-ftrect.
raay iS.
ox lihf.i*.
l-o Barrels ? of of best quality, put
50 half Barrels J up -with carefsr long voyages.
iooßarrelsof Connecticut Pork.
50 Barrels of ConnetTiicnt Tonfrues.
WINE S.
3S Pipes of Madein Wir.e
30 Pipes.of Pott
30 half calks of .Sherry
30 Calks of 14'lbon - .
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellejrt
quality.
Booßarrelsof SerapedFLOUß,
l<?° Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of best i)urham Mnftard. '
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Lantienbcrgcr's Wharf.
may 4 eodtf
Just Received and for sale by
WILL IA M rOUNG,
Corner of Second and Chefnut Street—and at the
Office of tho Ed.tor,price 3 l6ths. of a dollar,
AN ORATION,
Spoken at Hartford, on the inniverfary of Inde
pendence, July 4, 1795.
By THEODORE DWIGHT.
FOR SALE,
Two three llory Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, tka. fituatc on
Water street, between Mulberry an-.l Saflafrae
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing breadth <;aft
ward nmety-five feet, then widening to the
I'outh thirteen feet'fix inches. These -iiifes ,
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin- •
ing on the north fide, and area very de'firable si
tuation for a a merchant, flour factor, or other
who pnay have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be foM din very. r??fpnib!c '
terms for ra!h. For 'ufrher information Apply
printer. April ? 'mAwtf
FORSALE.
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the'rVankford Roid ;
the ,'ots will be.made to suit th; pur<fha!i»rs.—
These litu.itions are con' ; dcred in point of health
beauty aud elegance, equal to anv t«ear the city, 1
and the road known to baiifV ajid p-ootl at al!
seasons of the year. The title indisputable— A v
plan of the "-Yr unds is >n the hands of the l'ub-
Icriber, w.h" will rnqke kno'.vn the terms on ap- J
plication to hi,m at his office Wo. 124 South ,
Fourth Street. "
' ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER. ,
rosy »• itawtf •
John Fenno, N* 119 Chgjnut Street.
io | % JIJ~ a certaip perfqnfivindkd
| i f ' from me on the fir ft infL
jr. "''wwtlwrof. v&ijged c'ncdt cr. tlbe Bap];
p V North ■America, a note of tfutttew, drawn
o in mv favour by Mr. John "Travis; jrti'd pay
able in iix mouths, for three thotrfend four
d hundred r.r.d fifty seven dollars and forty-fix
0 cents. ALL persons are dellred not to re
|f ce i ve an y transfer of it, as it will not bs
paid by either the drawer or endorser unless
recovered by law.
' WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
, aujTuft 6.
The Public are hereby informed,
THAT I did not mean to authorise Col. Will
iam Nichols to declare, that I Would not pay,
un'els recovered by law, my note alluded to in his
P caution of the 6th of Augiift, publiflied in the Ga
zette of the United States of last evening. T !in
~ cercly lament hi. loft, and t«ld him I would do
j all I could do confidently with my credit to serve
him, hut went no further.
s JOHN TRAFIS.
c n "g u,;l: 7 _____ $
j For Sale,
s THE timeof an indented NEGRO MAN,
\\ ho is an excellent Cook, has about eight
; years to serve. /I L S O,
1 ,7 be . Ilme °f an I"d™ted Negro Boy,
■ Who is a good Hqufe Servant, and hjs about
nine years to serve, they are both perfedllv hen-
eft anil sober For terms apply to i66
jSuuth-FroKt-ftreet.
1 fMROft 7 4 ;vrtf
FOR SALE—bt
JAMES JACKS,
* No. 184, Market ilreet, ouc xioojr.below the Pre
fiHcntV,
Gilt, plated and ftcel mounted horse
men Swords
Gilt and plated mounted Hangers and Cut and
Thrwfts
Silver and gilt mounted Dress Swords and Dirks
Morocco Sword Belts and fteei Hooks
Rich gold and silver Epaulets and Spangles
Gold and silver X.accs, Cords and Threads
A great variety of double and single barrelled Fowl
ing Pieces, with silver and Heel mounting
Silver and il del mounted double and single barr»lt>
ed Holder Pistols
Double and single barrellsd Pocket Pistols with
bayonets
A large assortment of japanned Tea Trays and
Waiters, of a superior quality
Tortoifhells Combs and (hect Ivory
Best warranted Razors
Sportsmen's and Penknives, and fine Sciffori
G -ld and silver Fruit Knives
Ship and pocket Spy Glaflej
Surveyor's Compafl'es and Theodolites
Mathematical Inftrumentsand Opera Glasses
A few elegaht plated and japanned patent Lamps
German Flutes, plain, and Piano FoTtes
I Organized Piano Forte
Billiard Balls and Dice
Japamie/i tea and coffer ITrrt#
Mahogany and fattin wood'knife and spoon Gases,
with Knives complete
A large assortment of Pocket Books, with gold
and silver mounting
Backgammon Tables ani poi table Writing Dclks
Elegant glafsLuftrn and Chimney Ornamets
Imperial Pain.ings
With an extenlive assortment of Jewelry. Ster
ling Plate, Plated Goods, and Watches and Clocks,
which will be lold at the moil reduced prices,
wholesale or retail,, for calh or the usual credit.
N. B. Watches and Plate exchanged.
august % wf 4 w
Great Valley Troop of Light
Dragoons.
A T a very rofpcdable meeting flf a number of
L\ the inhabitants of Chester county, li'eH 011
the 17th iu!>. at thehonfe of Win. Webb, for the
purpose of railing and equipping a Troop of Hcrfc,
the following relolutions Were adopted :
Xcfofard, That a committee of five be appointed
to receive applications of gentlemen desirous of
joining this troop.
Refdvcd, That the members of this troop wear
the Federal Cocli3de, a* an emblem of patriot Km
Any gentlemen diOrous of' jiming this ttoojj of
horse, will yleafe to apply to either of the under
ligned COMWP.TTT.
John Bull. GeorCf. Dr.wees,
IsAac Wayne, John Re as.
Wm. Vl eBB,
Ch»" Iter county, July, 1798.
N.B. Before the cipf: ol the day, 15 nwijjfcer* ;
were enrolled and 3grccd to" equip immediately.— ;
There cannot be a doubt entertained but many
werthy citizens of this tounty will follow the ,
laudable example now set, and that in a tew weeks ,
the be'ft fervico of thii troop will be preferred to ,
this Government. .
WOW LANDING,
From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from !
Bourdeau*, and for sale -by the fabferiber,
88 calks CLARET I
71 do. do. of a ftiperior quality I
atrunkjgreenPAßASOLS. 1
7born as Murgatroyd, I
No. 11, Walnut-street.
WHO H4S OH HAND, 1
White Wine ill half Calks I
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in 1
boxes and balkets 1
Lunelle "1 Efttitlfd to '
Sauterne / I Drawback. 1
Irish Market > WINES in Cases I 1
Macarty and 4 I i
Medoc J J
Rota Wine in hhds. f
Pimento in bags. t
mv.r it) eotf
Saffron of the best quality, ;
Wharton y Lewis,
No 11 ? South Front flreet, Haw fur Sale, h
A quantity of green coffee is tierces ■*
Muscovado sugar in hhds ( ent-tledt
Pimento, ti? .Idranlbr.c
Ginger )
Also, excellent old Jamaica rum in hogsheads
Madeira wine in pipes 7
And about 70 barrel; tanners' oil
.i" | v sawtf
C L A"K K. w
WANrS a place, a Man who has been feve-
ral years in that capacity in this eity, an 1
will be well recommended fr#m where he (erved. 1
Me is a thorough accomptant and book keeper, ami
although brought up to the mercantile l.ufinefs, J! 1
from having occasion for a few'houri in the day at
linine, he would prefer on that account a Public r-
Office. A line directed to M. M. md left at th»
office of the Gazette of the United States, will «
tie _uJy attcnied to. eotf ju!y:i
CAUTION.
The Strbldriyers U:tve for Sale
rd THE FOLl.bli-ING GOODS—viz.
g Old Madeira Wine
&- ~QW rtd Port V.":rT, in pipes.
'n ih ■ 'truteafUfei
T-. Uo. of exeeUest quality, jn cases cen- to the
lr . raining 2 arid 3 doacn boules each, 1 aruivtaa
I.atmlr White Wine, dp. J
Heavy black Ps ppCr,
Uinglafs, 111 fort,
° A new 7 inch Hawser, 120 fathoms.
a " BESIDES A VARIETY OF
India and Chiuele Goods.
Philips, Cramond & Co.
J"'y Bt.
SUGARS AND COFFER.
A PARCEL cf excellent Port-au-Prince fu
- gars, and 'about 20,300 wt. of coffee—l'or fide.
J. YARD.
is, i»iy c.bict
'James C. tff Sam!. IV. FJJjer,
0 No. 13 Ak CH-Stk KF.T,
e Have Jor Sale
200 Cofits be!f refined Salt P<;tre
Bert London Window Glass from 10 by 8 tn
ia by 10
Ditto Glass Ware in Caflts assorted c3-n!if-m<T
of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
GlaiTes, Goblets, &c.
a t so,
A fewßalesof Red, White and Yellow Flan-
He Is, Baizes and Kendal! Cottons.
June 27 jawtf
5 TREA.SURY DEPARTMWIV
JUN* 27, 1795,
NO'Ti^J 7 . IS Hj-.REnY T; t a- Jiy vir
tue o f an acl, nnij.-d during- tb; lef
lion ef CorigTefs, so much of the ait eirituied
- " An Ail making further provision forthefup
" port ol public credit, ar.d fir tin- redemption
" of the public debt"—pafiVrl the third d.y of
March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety
j five, as bars from fettk-meut or allowance,
Certificates, commonly called Loan Otficeand
final settlement Certificates, and Indents of In
tereflfi, is suspended until the twelfth day of
June, which will be in the year one thousand seven
■hundred and ninety nini.
That on the liquidation and settlement of the
said Certificates, and Indents of Intcreft, at the
Treasury, the Creditors will be entitled to receive
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stockequal
to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
ages of intercll due on their said Certificate's, prior
1 to the firfl day of January One thousand leven
hundred and ninety one.
That the principal fumsof the said Loan Office
and final settlement Certificates, with the interefl
thereon, since the firft day ot January, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety one, will be dis
charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
paymant of interest and reimMirfsment of princi
pal, equal to the funis which would have been
payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been
fubferibed, pursuant to the Ails making provision
for the debts of the United States, contracted dur
ing the late war, and by the payment of other
funis,'equal to the market value of the remaining
Stock, which would have ficen created !>y such
fubferiptions asaforefaid, whichmarket value will
he determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury.'
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
June 28 iawtf
Public Notice is hereby given, l
That proposals will be received at the office
of the Secretary of the Treaiury for sup
plying the'Ur.Ued States with a number not
exceeding Forts- thonfnnd Hands of arms,
on the follovviiig conditions.
I ft. The arm> shall be in the
United Staies, conformable tu Ci.;u itvilh
pattern ; the han't Is shall l.c proved, and the
mufVets ?»ree?ble to the rules now
praAiled and required by The Utii'e,) St'.te? :
the Locks flidl l.e didy hardened ; the Ramrods
and Bayonets o>■>ii l c irmiierc-d and tiie mount
ings, Itorks I ev-;ry ot >. ei -particular fhail Le
fmilhed in a v.-.;rl;man lihc rnrner.
ad. The piopi.fj's mull Iprcif/ the number
winch the partv iswd'i.i;: to fm'r.ifh .'1:1 the time
or times nf «eliv«ry Oftc fourth of the prci
pofed number mull oe dcliveied in fix inonihs,
one fourth m twelve months, p.uri theremai.ider
in eighteen months from the time of fifrnn:;; the
contraiils | the public n-iilnot be considered as
bound.to receive any ii-v , svhirh are not ready
for'delivery within the times propoftd.
jd." For every fla"d ot afios»'w'ith Ravmiet
and Ranirod complete as sfoiefaid, the United
States will allow thirteen fortj cents.
4th. When praiflicablc and eoufiftent with
exjfting arrangements, seasoned flocks will be
delivered from the public stores in Philadelphia
to conttawlors, at the rate cf t Aa-nty-five Cents
each.
sth. The arms will be received in the r-fpec
tive states at places to be htreifter designated
The United Utiles fhail not he bpund to prove
less than five hundred barrels at one time, unless
the barrels are tr;nfported to some public facto
ry or deposit of arms, in .which cafe any num
ber not less than one hundred will be proved.
6th. The parties con'ridling will-be required
to give bonds with sureties for fulfilling their en
gagements ; No money will be advanced unless
lodifputable teflimoriials of (kill and -ability to
execute the proposed contraf.s are produced
nor in cases where proposals are madefor a lets
number than on.' thousand ftjnds of arms ; the
right of judging of the expediency of making
advances of money isabfolutely refcrved.
7th. Unt 1 cnntrJdls are made for supplying
f;>i ty thoOfasd stands of arms, the sum of thir
tes-tl dollars and forty cents will be paid at the
Treasury foreverv complete Hand of arms man
ufaflured in the United S'ates and which may
be delivered in parcels of not less than twenty
into the public arfenaK already or hereafter to
be eftabljjhed. Those who propole so de'js>er
arms ran't hQ-.vever indicate their intentions £a
fonabty to tl»e oHice of the Secfiiriry of 'tli«
Treasury. \ ' ' ' i '
For .the Sftretnry qf the 'Trtfffury,
JcJm Steele, comptroller.
Treasury Hepart>niT.i (
Jimr nil, 1798. \ liivtf 1
h>phra in Clark,
CLOCK ly WAT CIIMA KE R, \
Conner cf Frr.»t at\.l J\4crket Street. «
WVERk Kc i* j'lit openir j a ver* ezteofive 1 <
supply of clorktfij!?, ciitbrafs, hells, for- \
£o<l work and pnmicc ftonc and emery, <
• Hxfet t>r fs, "ha&tl :nJ he*ich vices, witch and c!oc
pliers, lar(rc and f:naU .'lie--, (ho# asd knee
chviins, fcals and key», aud (ilver v/aulu
es, fprjljg'and weight Jutks.
JUII3 l*
-) I Population Company.
* s hereby given to th<!
• , i. ® t, ' cfchold "». that an affefTment o .Si,
» Hollars n levied on each ftare,—p.iyiMc, one l.aU
i "3°> m """'iuocr in Ao duy.from the -,j
, *lfi+ which rnty .-re receded to „ ay , , . hc
u lurer of the comply, at the Conmauy 1 ,
No. 53 North Fouthilreet, agreeably to the tin,,-!
above mentioned. The Proprietors wii 1 ..Uilc to
the necessity of being punftual, other
wise theforfeiture of their shares wilt be incurred,
agreeably to the ccnHitution.
By Order of the Board.
SOL. MAR * CHE, Stc'ri.
? t.nKim
- • DUTY on CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby given,
TP a S leca % to an »& of t'ongrefs of th<
■A United States of America, paffrd at flifla
■ delphia th. ajith day of May, 1796, hjmg du
ties on carriag < for the conveyance of perform, and
repealing the former ads for that purpose—That
there shall be levied, colleflcd anil paid, upon all
carriages for the convryauce of petfons, which
( l.iah be kept by or for any person, for his or her
own ure, or to I«t out to hire, or lcr the convev
, ing of pafiengers, the ieveral duties and rates fol
lowing, viz. do ,i ei
tor ani upon every coach • 1 5 "
upon every chario* j'j,
upon t very post chariot 13
upon every -oft chtife 12
li ron every phastori, with or without top 9
•jpon. every coaclu'e " a
Upon other carr-. es, having pannel
werk ..! ovc, xs;li blinds, glafies, ( a
OT curtarins \
upon liiur-wbtc.l carriage'., Irving')
f.-awe ? 3ilsa U J lup-., with Age) I 6
fp rings V
upon four-wh?el top carriages, with
wooden or iron fpritigs oil jacks J 3
upon curricies with tops
upon chailes with tops
upon chairs with top 3
upon sulkies v.ith t«p
upon other two wheel top Carriages 5
upon two wheel carriages- wkh iteel">
or iron springs r 3
For and upon all other two wheel carriages »
upon every four wheeled sarriage,")
having framed ports, and tops, ( %
and reflirig upon wooden spars y
The Colic 5.0r oi the revenue ol the firft riivition
of the firft survey of the diftritf of Peunfylvani.i,
will attend daily until the 30th day of September
next, ior the psrpofe of receiving the duties on
carriages, at No 49 North Third-street, in the city
of Philadelphia, of which all person. pollcifed of
such carriages are desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
To all retail dealers in wines and foreign diftilJed
spirituous liquors, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the bufincfs of
retailing of wines in a less quantity, or in left
uantitics, than 30 gallons—and one licence for
arrying on the feufincfa of retailing spirituous li
quors in less quantities than twenty gallons, at the
fame time and at the f*me place, by
JAMES ASH,
CnlJe&or of *hi diviflon of the ift
Survey of the diflri«sl of Penhfylvania.
Office of lnfpe&io» at Philadelphia, ">
Jit August, 1798. J $
ftj Every denomination of Stamps to be had
a' 'said office.
insurance office
OF THE STATE OF PFISNSTir/IXIA,
August lit, 1798
THE Directors have this day declared a di*
\ iJend of fifty-five dollar* on eaeti share of
the Stick of this Company, for the'aft half
)var, whi' li will bepai I to the Stockholders, or
their legal reprefentuives after the 10th inftint.
James S. Cox, President.
iuguft 2 J ljt
" TO BE SOLD, '
' fS® tinie "f an indented E)ttch"Servart BOY,
6 who has ten years ro serve. He has hud the
small pit and mrnflcs, isa(*live, hearty ard flrong,'
and fit'for hcu'.e wcr!t in town or country. Ftr
turth»r information, enquire of the printer.
°ugu»t 4 5
To be Sold.,
Tin! elegantly fuuated CRICK HOUSE and LOT
adjoining of eight or n-nc Aces ct fronting
«n High-vStrcet in the City ol Perth-Am boy, New-
Jerfcy.
r J MiE Motile is upwards 6f iifty fret front, forty
JL feet deep, and two flones with lour wcfl
finilhcd rnoms oj» floor, the ga-*ci ceiled, and a
good cellar under the whole- —Commanding in froat,
an cxtenfive view of the hatbor and bay down to San
dv-Hook, the Li^ht-hou f e and fliipping to and from
New-York—in the 'car a pJecfing of Rari
tan river for some milrs towards Bt-anfwjck ; and alfj
of th'- fr«und towarns ElT*«betk-town, The garden
is fpacLQtJs; in good order, and weli laid out, in the
rfa-o' which is a small orchard of excellent fruit; on
the prcmilcs arc also a hrge co<ch-houfe arV (fables,
?nd a well of good w?ter ; a public bah is crest.d on
the (hore not tar ftofn the house, and at the di/tance
of about two miles is a mineral fprinji, which in a va
riety of cases proves very salutary --Upon the whole,
the houft and its conveniertces, the healthful and airy
lituation of the place, render it an objeft worthy the
attention cf arty gentleman of loriune.—For farther
particulars and terms, apply so John Stevehs at Ho
boken, near New-York, to John Roe, merchant in.
New-York, or to Richard Stevens refilling on the
premises.
august ( 5 lot
Philadelphia, June 30tb, 1798. ~
Public Notice is Hereby Given,
PURSUANT to the atS of Congress, palled
on the Jith day of June 1798, entuL-il,
"an afl refpecling I>an ;Oflice and final fcttie
ment
unfunded or regiftored debt crfdited in the
books of the Tre.ifury."
1 ft. That on the application of the creditors
refpedlively, or their legal attornies at any time
after the lall day of December it, the present
year, the prin'ci *1 funis «<f the unfunded or re
gistered dtfet of the Ull ted credited on
thffjooki of the treaf'ry, or commiflionert of
I.oins will be rcimburfcd at thetreafury of the
United State*.
2d. 'Th at upon ths unfunded or re
giflered debts at<ue!ai<l will reafe from and (f«
ter the last day of Decftnher in the present year.
That the creditors refpcfl'ively will be
entitled on rcquifition to receive from the pro
per officer* of thr treafurv, certifi'ates of fund
ed three per cent (lock, equal to the arrearage*
of Intireit due cn the debts aforrfaid prior to
the fir.'t day of Jan'oiry, one thonfand fevtn hun
dred and ninu ' ore.
By order of the Board c f Com>n '<£itners
of ll.t St ikingiFund,
£dwcrd Jcnes, see'ry,
june 39 ia*if
Ett&Ktt
June 39
• -«
-
[Vozvms XIV:> o E T R r.
To the old American Tune " Tie Day is
Broke,"
ANOTHER ftarmy day is come*
Loud blow the trumpet, flrike the drum—
The foul inspiring fife ;
Fierce be Iheclafh of founding arms,"
It fooji ejch trembling fear disarms,
Tii Tribute—Death or Life.
What if ue lov'd and fought one foe,
With those who hate, who spoil us now,
Is gratitude their due ?
We early taught them Freedom's lore,
We for! them—cloth'd <nd fed their poor
They to our bofems grew.
But shall the bale, the infidions band
Spread baleful treason thro' our land ;
Our morals, heartsdeftroy;
Daft thro* our throat the fatal knife,
Stab what we value more than life,
Oar Wife, our Girl, our Boy ?
No ! let their madness to u« prove,
Their greedy grasp of Empire's Lore,
Their with of anpry sway :
But O ! let us be friends at home
Against them roll the rattling drum,
And dart the bayonet's ray.
Strike glitt'ring Faulchion, well worn steel,
On heads which honor nevw feel
If Tribute they demand {
Take the brown muftet dear to Fame,
(Stampt - ith our country's blefled name)
Pois'd oft by hero's hand.
Defend your rights, your country's laws,
The ikies will redden in your cause,
And patriot thunder roll !
'Tis now—that HE wkq once flood forth,
And marked his own, his country's worth,
Again expands his foul.
Toh im look up ! your guardian ! guide!
His country's j"y ; its friend, its pride,
And wlien th« day clouds on,
That he {hall lead the embattled war,
O ! croud and follow from afar
The Man, 'ti« WASHINGTON.
i
AN ACCOUNT OJf TUB ftLOPAtSANDA.
fExtradfroma work printed in Germany,
entitled, " Historical intelligence and
Political Confederations, concerning the
French Revolution, by Christopher Gir
tanner, Surgeon and Dodor of Phy
fick." Thfc third volume;
There hath been for some time pad in
almofl all European countries much talk
concerning the Propaganda, a society whose
members are bound by engagements
to flir up fubjede against their lawful rulers, ,
and to promote Qiflentions and agitations in
all European states Hitherto this society J ,
is kitown chiefly by the effede produced by l
it : it consists of two ordetf. or clafTes of :
meo, viz. men of enthufiatlic difpofi ions, ! {
who imagine the r selves to be called to re j t
form the world, and of ambitious, mifchiev- ' a
ous knaves, who flatter the former in orderto t
life them as their tools, and whose wifli it is t
to breed trouble, confufion and diflradion, e
which affords them an opportunity to fifh 3
in troubled waters, and to lay hold on pow
er after*it hath been wrested from the hands c
of those men in whom it had been lawfully J
and rightly placed.
I have taken great pains (even in France
itfelf) to obtai) an accurate account of this 1
club or society ; I found means.tn become
a member of almofl every club irt Paris, e
ven of that famous club of 1789. whose
President was the marquis de Condoreet ; j
and which, to the best ofjpmy knowledge, !
nerver admitted any foreigner as a member ; (;
except myfelf. But notwithflanding all my j
pains, endeavors, and researches, concern- ft
ing the Propaganda, were in vain until
lately, when I obtained by the kindness of l
an eminent man, in whose heart the wel p
fare of mankind is fincere'y imprefled, the g
following authentic account, which I have a
here translated, and by his permiflion com- {v
muni:ate : I have no doubt of the authen- £
ticity of this %ccouut. £
The club of the Propaganda is verydif- ] c
ferent from the jacobin club, notwithfland- a
ing they are too frequently confounded '
with each other. The jacobins are the flir
rers up of the national assembly ; on the
other hand, the Propaganda are the faduc
ers and stir rets up of th e-whole human race. n
This c'ub exifled as early as the year 1786, f (
and the lords Rochefoucault, Condoreet, aj
arid the Ab';e Sieyes, were at the head of it. e
Their tenets art as follow % and for the p
furtherance of them, their society is eftab- Vl
lifhed as a philosophical order, whose objed w
it is to control the opinions of mankind. To r(
become a member of this foc>ety, it is ne
cefla y that therandidate be either a defen- a
der and promoter of modern philosophy w
(that is dogmatical atheism) or else a man
of an ambitious charader, turbulent aod w
discontented with the government under p
which he lives. When he is, admitted be w
gives his •word of honor to observe secrecy ; p
before he is accepted, he is informed that a ]
the number of members is very great, spread n
over all the earth, and that all these mem- Vl
bers labor inceflantly to put any falfe or u
traiterous members (w ho might betray their p
secrets) out of the way. The candidate c
further gives his word of hAior, that he t;
will communicate all information he may w
acquire, to his brethren ; that he willaa- t(
ways defend the people in opposition to the t ]
government ; that he will do his utmost to t ]
refill al! peremptory (by him called arbi- t(
trary) commands, and do all that in him t |
lies to introduce an universal tolerance of all a
religions. d
There are two classes of members, fitch rl
an pay and such as do not pay , they pay p
according to their abili y ; the number of f t
contributing members wtre about 5000, the f (
number of non-contributing members about 0]
50,000 ; these bind themselves to fprtad c(
the dodrines of the Propaganda in all coun- y(
trier, and to promote the designs thereof. p (
The order has two degrees, adfpirants and w
initiate ; the firft is aeqnainted with the
scope of the order, but the latter is also in„'
formed as to the means the order uses to ob- cr
tain this end. An aspirant cannot be ad- m
mitted into the degree of initiate until he
has undertaken a philosophical million, and ca
can clearly prove that he has made ten pro- ca
fjlytes. The trcafury of ihe order possess- gn
~~ es at present 20 millions of livres, ready
money ; and, according to the last accounts
there will be, before the end of this year
u (179!) 30 millions in it.
1 The order is built Upon the following
principles: opinion and necellity (or need)
are the springs of all human a&ion ; if you
thsrefore can cause the need, necessity,
want, or despondence (call it which you
will,) to spread. you may thereby controul
the opinions of mankind, and will be en
abled to shake all the fyftemsof the world,
even those which seem to have the firmett
foundations.
To delude the Hollander? has cod the
orekrgrtal labour ; but the consideration
thfii fbe blow becomes universal has fuflained
th"£m. The plan of the order is as follows :
No onecandeny but that the oppreflion,un
der which some men live (let it be praftifed
where it will) is agreat cruelty 9c calamity,
this therefore must be removed and put an
r end to by the light of philosophy. When
this is done, it will only then be needful to
wait for the favourable period in which the
nunds of mank nd will be univerfully tuned
to accept the new fyflem, which mud be
preached all at once over the whole of Eu
rope. Those who obftina*ely refill this fyf
tera. we must endeavour by persuasion or by
need to renounce their opposition j but if
they perfifl, and are incorrigible, they must
be treated as the Jew 6 have been treated,
and be excluded from the rights of focLty,
driven from among men.
There is another article in the society's
pldh which is no less remarkable ; it is this.
The Propaganda mud not not try to bring
her plan to bear until she is perfcftly convin
ced that the need (want or necessity) exist ;
it would be better to wait fifty years, than
by precipitance to fail.
A rtumerous society like this, whose
members hitherto as yet a& singly, which
accumulates money, which goes to work
fl 'wly, and carefully avoids all precipitance,
j which vril! strike no blow until she is well
, allured of almofl certain success, such a so
* ciety is a dangerous thing ; their progrels
may possibly be fwift, and deliverance out
, of their hand seems next to an impossibility.
The Dutch patriots who fled to France con
1 fidered the Propaganda as thei? chief anchor :
■ Suppose (fay they) suppose then that the
House of Auflria will afford us no assistance,
1 there yet remains for us the Propaganda ;
these are mifiiowaries of this order all over
Holland, and perhaps even already some re-
I gular lorfg-s.
J , In ths club of the friends of the people '
j at BrufTels, a speaker lately exprefTed him
j felf in the following words : tc Kvery where
! 'hey are preparing fetters, but philosophy
! ar| d reason will one day triumph . and the
time will tome when the unlimited, uncon- (
trouled ruler of the Ottoman Empire in the S
evening shall lay himfelf to reft as a despot,
and in the morning shall arise as a citizen." 11
The treasury of ths propaganda receives *
considerable sums from all the provinces of
Holland. C
e
STAUNTON, (Virg.) July 24 "
j At * meeting of the field officers of the 81ft
regiment of militia in the county of Bath, h
with a representative from each company, g
and a number of other refpeftable inhabi- \
tants at the court-house, on Monday k
the 9th day of July, 1798, o
On motion, Valentine White was appointed
Secretary,
Major John White was unanimously elefled a
Chairman, t
Refolt/ed unanimously. That an address be n
presented to the President of the United
States, and that the following gentlemen be
appointed a feleft committee to prepare the o
fame, to wit : Samuel Blackburn, Charles tl
Cameron. John Brown, William Poage &
George Poage,—who brought in the fol
lowing report, which was unanimously e
agreed to. ' p
To JOHN ADAMS, si
PSESIDENT of the UrnTED STATES. ?
Sir, ,c
WHILE France, faithful to her decla- Ci
rations of " Renouncing conquest or inter
ference in the government of other nations,"
attended to her own emancipation and the «
expulsion of tyrants, leagued for the pur
pose of Treftoring her ancient form of go
vernment, and riveting her former chains ; -
we viewed her cause as the cause of MAN,
rejoiced at her success, aad regretted her '''
misfortunes as involving the interests ofhh- b ;
man nature ; but when a fyltem of offenfive
war, maflacre and indiscriminatepplunderr r di
succeeded to sober and rational defence ; -
when the rights of MAN, the right of pro
perty, things sacred and things common "~
were facrificed to national ambition, and the
power to conquer and extort money, invari
ably furniflied the pretext and juftified the
measures, we seriously lamented that a re
volution so glorious in its commencement,
unequalled in the extent and celerity of its
progress, should terminate To little to the
credit of the principal a&ors, or real advan
tage of that magnanimous people : if these
were our feelings while difintsrefled fpeda- f c
tors of the conduft of France, what must c <
they now be, when she, having exhausted Ji
the blood and treasures of Europe, is ex- 31
tendingherviews to this government, and by tl
the m»ft unjuflifiable and unprovoked fpoli- 31
ations on the property of its citizens, is P
draining her principal sources of wealth and 0
revenue, and by insidious appeals to the
people against the government, calculated to
foment divisions in our country, preparatory
for the iQore easy introdudion of her plan
of universal disorganization and re- J
ceptioa of that eonftitution or form of go- j t(
vernment, she may please to didate at the
point of the bayonet, arts already pradifed ~
with too much success in Europe.
Under these impressions, Sir, we would B
do injustice to ourselves in concealing the ft,
entire fatisfadion we feel, at the decided
measures adopted by our government in re
fpeft to that nation. Can France,, intoxi- p,
cated as she is, seriously believe that Ameri- ve
cans having so long c joyed the blelfings of tic
an efficient government, *'h;ch happily th
3y 'combines (he greatest personal lib'riy.
its vidua! ifcuri'y, and national honor, tat ti
:ar fe£t of a most enlightened policy and price
of the dearest Wood of their fathers, tould
lg poflibly be induced by promises or threats to
d) j abandon it, but with their lives ? No—we
ju i declare to you and to the world, the conlli
y, J tution we have adopted we will transmit in
-3U violate to posterity, or perifti in its ruins ; it
ul I is not for us to fay, whether war is or is not
n- neceflary ; conftitution of our choice has
d, delegated tjie decifien to a different depart
:ft | ment. Peace, honorable peace ! we rank "a
mongft the firft of earthly bleflings ; war we
he view as the scourge of human nature ; this
Jn however we do fay, our persons & property
ed are Inbjefit to the call ofour country ; either
3 : or both are ready to be facrificed in her de
n- fenc.' in manly oppofitioo to invasion or Ra
ed tfonal insult, either from the long accredited
y, despotisms of the old world o the gorern
an ment of Fiance regenerated-Really the most
:n energetic despotism, concealed under the
to new-fangled appellationof citizens direftors,
lie and the advocates of liberty and equality.
:d At this trying crisis, Sir, when tlie most
be efiential interests of our conutry may be at
u- Ibike, when the secret enemies of our most
■f. excellent conftituticn begin to (hew them
iy selves, when the most falntary measures
if adoptedby our government, arc mifconftru
ft ed aid opposed by men too, to some of
i, whom we would willingly ascribe the bjft of
f, motives ; when foreign enemies are calcu
lating on our internal dtvifions, and domestic
's enemies are laboring to realize those calcu
s. lations; we esteem it our duty to add
g (however late the declaratian) that in at
-- taehment to our country, in obedience to
; her laws, in refpeft to the cha: after and
n confidence adopted by our chief magidrate,
we yield to none, and only wait his call to rally
'e round the standard of our constitution, and
li seal this declaration with our blood,
t (Signed by order of the meeting)
• JOHN WHITE. Chairman.
1 VAL. WHITE, Secretary.
1 M ails for South-Carolina Cs' Georgia,
t T) A CKETS are now provided for carrying the
. A Public mailsby water between Philadelphia
and Charleston. They will leave Philadelphia
on Friday's. The poll by land will be continu
ed twice a week until an experiment is made in
regard to the expedition and regularity of the
packets. If any person Chufes to have their
letters sent by iand only, they will pleale to
write the word Land upon the letters : other
wise they \jrill be sent by that conveyance which
will firft start after the letters are left in the !
poft-effice.
"Joseph Haberjham,
Pojl-Majler Gemeral.
Philadelphia, August 13, 1798. s;t
c 3* The Office of the Insurance
Company of North America, is removed to the <
School House, near the Market, in Gepnantown.
Orders for Insurance, left at the south east cor- ,
ner of Arch and Sixth streets, will be duly for- '
warded. august 13
The Office of the Insurance
Ccmpany of the State of Pennsylvania, is remov
ed to the North weft cornfr of Ninth and Market '
fiw august 13. 1
CO" Any person in the neighbour
hood of Germantown defirousof effefling Insuran
ces at the Offiee of the Insurance Company of the
State of Pennsylvania, now op' ned at the North .
Weft Corner of Ninth and Market streets, may -
know the terms by leaving an enquiry at the house
of SamufJ H'.Filhcr, Esq. in Germantown. '
""guft §iw {
c 3* John W. Vancleve, Attorney
at Law is removed to the house of capt. John
Harrifon at the j Mile Stsne, 011 Point Road, c
near Frankford. i
augnft '3 " sot c
The Office of the Colledor 1
of this Port is removed to Congress Hall, where 1
the Custom-House business is now tranfailed. t
augult ii. t
The Poll-Office will b<; mov- c
ed on Monday the 13th instant, at one o'clock
P, M. to the North-fide of Market-flreet, the t
firft house Weft of Eleventh-street, where Mer- I
chants and others are requested to fend si r their n
letters ; as the Letter-carriers will be flopped ],
carrying letters out, after that time.
Post Office, Philadelphia. august TT. G
£? lhe Sublcribers have reraov- j
ed for the preferit from Penn-ftreet to Eleventh- n
street, between Filbert and High-streets.
WiUtngi £s" Francis. „
awguft 9 11
& Wanted —A situation in a Pub- f,
lie or Merchants Ofiice, or to go as Supercargo, a
by » person regularly brought up to the Mer
cantile and Insurance business in London, he has
lately been a voyage from hence to the Welt-In
dies as Supercargo, can be well recommended, "
—Please to enquire at the Printer's,
august 11
This Day Pubftjhed, s
And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No.
119 Chef)iut-ftreet,
(Price J-tth of a Dollar, J ri
AN ORATION, ti
Pronounced July 4,1798, Ci
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town of jr
BOSTON, in commemoration of the anni- w
verfary of American Independence. rl
By jfostAH S>uTNcr.
. " The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we have sustained,
call for—"Justice. That Reparation and tint ®
Juftiee, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit, h
and Firmness. But to divide and conquer wjs tl
the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Eden, tl
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi- j r
pie of all his votaries from that period to the
present."
Observations on the Boston Pcrt-BUI, (Sfc.p. 78
by the late J. 3>uincy, jim. i
auguft 11 b
For Sale. £
A ftrohg Second Hand Coachee,
With Steel Springs.—Enquire at No. 319, Mar- ( j.
ket Street. 5
august 9 s4t w
A House to let,
In Fourth street, next door to the Indian Queer!.
Enquir* of Robert Smith, N0.58, South front
street. f jnly i' cs
The Office of the Committee,
Appointed to superintend the building of th«
Frigate to be loaned to the United States, is remo- S (
ved to N*. 11l Spruce street—os which those gen
tlemen who havs not already ceme forward with te
their fubferiptions will please to tike notice. cc
ROBERT RITCHIE, SK'ry.
•" BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
•e _____
d BOSTON, August 8.
0 [C?" Sinceour 'aft we have been favored with
'" London papers to June 9 —about 18 days
:i " later than before received. 1 h'ey were
brought to town by Messrs Monkhoufe
lC and Eerkfdale, who came 011 shore from
the Britifb June Packet.] (Col. Cen.J
as
RASTADT, May 20.
a " The Deputation of the Empire, hath gi
ven an answer to the last note of the French
1,3 Commiffioners.—ln thS ,'answer it refyfes to
'Y France any pofielHons on the right bank of
er the Rhine. But animated by a desire for
e " peace, it is willing to agaee, that the centre
a " of the Rhine (hall be the bound-ry, and the
islands irr it, belong to that power, within
H " whose half they lie; Ehrenbreitftein, £ which
is on the right bank] it fays, cannot be de
,e ftroyed tinlefs France gives an equivalent.
s > A new negociation between England and
France, has been proposed by Count Co
-1 benzel, by dire&ion of the Emperor.
lt His Prufiian Majesty will not accede to
ft the demands of the French.
1-
-s FRANKFORT, May 19.
'* Ruflia lias resolved to take the moll aftive
part in the war, should France refufe peace,
and support England with all her power.
This has been notified to the Emperor of
c Germany . who has in consequence cora
'• rr.iffioned Count Cobenzel, topropofe a new
d negociation between France and England
° Gen. Buonaparte's Expedition.
■' London, June 9. An express from Lord
y St. Vincent mentions his having advice
from the Mediterranean, that the Toulon
fleet, having Gen. Bhonaparte on board,
•> had thevigilance of Sir Horatio Nel
son ; sind ; had failed on the projett-d eriter
prize. In conftquence, orders liave been
a i(Tiled for fitting for sea, immediately, every
5 ship of war, that cait be put in commiflion ;
e and a f«vere press has taken place in
1 all the maritime towns, and on ihe river.
» That Ireland is the objeft of Buonaparte
, no question can remain. A correspondence
c between the insurgents and the French Di
r reftory has bee'i long kept up.
> Letters from Li(b-<n fry, that Admiral
Nelson and Curtia, had joined St. V-inc nt's
' , fleet which now confiftsof 32 fail of the
line.—He is to go in quest of the Toulon
fleet, leaving the Spaniards to be watched
by a small squadron.
" ARMY OF ENGLAND "
London, May 30. Paris accounts states,
that Gen. Grenier is fhortl'y to fail from
Durkirk, for England ; ai d that the troops
have marched from St. Omcrs, Bethune,
Arras, &c. for the coast.
May 28. On Saturday a bill passed the '
house of Commons, for manning the navy
by suspending all protedlionG,
LONDON, May 26. j
Dublin mail arrived yesterday. Soldiers
are paced at free quarters in that city. The <
loldiers and butchers lately had an affray, (
which ended in the former's favpr. Several <
persons are jull arretted for treasons. 1
May 28. t
The Iri/h mails, which arrived on Satur- {
day, brought a variety of intelligence of the (
utmoll importance. The lord lieutenart, {
onTuefday last. sent a'meffige to both r
houses of parliament, stating that ins 1 ma- t
tion had been received by his excellency, c
that the difaftedicd had been dan g enough J
to form a plan to priflefs themfelvrs, in tlie c
course of the present month, of the metropo- 1
lis, and to seize the feat of government, and v
those in authority within the city. The i
lords and commons, in co sequence of this r
meflage, immediatfly entered into some fl
loyal resolutions, and eaeh went up to the v
eaftle with an addrefs'to the lord lieutenant j
the latter with the speaker at their head,
displaying a laudable instance of sage deter- I
minatiois, by walning in procefiion whole ft
of the way, thrdugh the most populous 1;
streets of the metropolis. ,
Such is the abundance of money at pre- t:
sent in the city, that «ne half of the v. hole
amount of the loan for the service of the k
year has already been pa d into the bank by t
the fubferibers, although not more than two a
millions are yet due. j.
May 29. t ]
The Irish rebels have been defeated at tl
Saggard and Naas. Several hundreds killed, k
May 30. ?
The Dublin Mail of the 25th inftaat, ar
rived yesterday, by which we have received t(
not only a confirmation of the dreadful ac
counts given in our last paper, but also forpe J
important details of several frefh aftions li
which have taken ptaee between the milita* te
ry and the rebels in various direftions.— ai
Ihe rebellion is now openly supported in r<
most parts of the counties of Dublin, Kil- cl
dare, and Meath ; aSd ever, the neighbor- S
hood of the metropolis has been aflailed by
the daring insurgents. In some instances, tl
they have made a desperate resistance ; hut tl
in all they have been completely defeated Y
with immense (laughter, while his majesty's in
forces have sustained very little loss. Near ol
Dunboyne, the rebels, who captured the
bsgg'ge of two companies, guarded by a
fgoall party of the Reay Feec,ible&, S3 fitted te
in our paper of yelWday, remained undif- 3.
perfed on the 24th; but on the following il
day a formidable army was sent against them°, al
who happily succeeded in putting the whole C
body to flight. te
„ , .. May 31. f 0
By the Dublin mail of the 26th, which la
came to hand yesterday, we have received «f
accounts of several frefh actions having been cl
fought between the military and the infur- w
gents, in the whole of which his maiefty's er
forces have completely triumphed. ~ The in
rebellion has extended its influence into the
counties of Wicklcw and Carlow; so :h»t th
S there are now fire count 'et- in sn open ft i
of iofurre&ion. The official details of t
of the engagements., which took place
Hacketftown, in thf county of Carlow, a
►j, at Baltinglafs, in the county of ,Wicklo
ys state that the rebel? loft in the former this
re hundred men, and in the latter between o;
f e and two hundred. Battles have also bet
m fought at Clare, Ballimor, Berretilowr
> Lucan, and Lufk, which terminated ia i
similar manner. The Rebels have burnt the
town of Kulcullen, and destroyed a great
j. part of the refpeftable city of Carlow, at
which place a dreadful conflift took place,
. the result of which was, that four hundred
of the misguided wretches were slain, orer
)r whose mangled carcaies the travellers from
rc Dublin to the southward were for a whole
e day obliged to pass. Such is the frightful
n pi&ure which our intelligence of yefterdajr
presents to our view.
But this is not all ; our advices from the
south state, that the county of Kilkenny ig
j in a very perturbed situation ; that the
greatest apprehensions are entertained in the
counties of Tipperary ond Waterford ; and
0 that in the county of Cork, an open rebel
lion is hourly expe&ed. The vicinity of th«
metropolis < ontinues to be infitfted with nu
merous- bodies of the infurgei.ts, against
e whom all the troops in the garrison have re
ceived orders to march, and the protection
of the city is now committed to the yeo
f manry, who, from their numbers and afti
. vity, appear fully adequate to the under
v taking. Two members of Rathfarham vo
lunteers, Meflrs. Lcdwiehand Keggh, who
headed the rebels in an aftion fought Hear
that place, were on Sunday lait, with eigh
teen others, executed in Dublin, pursuant
to the sentences of several courts martial ;
on the fame day. Dr. Esmond, of the coun
ty of Kiidare, aifo fuffered death, for re
-1 bellious behavior. The rebels have, pofftff
' ed ihemfeWes of some unimportant polls
not far distant from the metropolis, and de
stroyed the bridge of Kiilcullen, to prevent
' the communication with the South.
Juije i.
■ The Gazette enables us to lay before our
1 readers a-iifpatch from the lord Lieutenant,
dated the 27th ult. containing an account
of some further advantages obtained on the
preceding day over the Rebels, st Taragh,
Hill, about ten miles north of the metropo
lis, where they appeared in great numbers.
For some time they refilled the a:tack ofthree
companies of the Reav fencibles and several
troops of yeomanry, but they were at length
obliged to fly in all direftions, leaving three
hundred and fifty dead upon the field. N»
prisoners. The loss on the part of the King'*
troops was nine rank and five killed and six
teen wounded. •
June 4.
The official intelligence which has arrived
from Ireland since lour last publication in
some measure answers pur expectations, and
gratifies our hopes. A numerous body of
rebels assembled ©n the Curragh of Kildarc,
(amounting to 40co)have laid down their
arms, and given up a number of their leaders;
that the communication between Dublin and
Limerick, which bad been cut off by the In
surgents, has been reflored ; and that Sir.
James Duff hat retaken the town of Kii
dare, and killed between two and three hun
dred of the Insurgents, who had poffefiion
of that place, with the loss of three men kil
led, and several wounded. The Gazetteadds
that " the outli is'entirely quiet." We are
sorry, however, our letters from thatquarter
do not admit us to fubferibe 'o this last as
sertion. The rebel. »we are on the contra
ry affined, are still in greatforcein the Coun
ty of Wexford ; & that a large fletachment
of the loth regiment of foot, commanded by
Lieutenant Colonel ( oly i ll g, which march
ed from Waterford for that county, on the
28th ult. had been cut off by the Insurgents
who, to the amount of near 7000 men, were
in possession of the City of Wexford and its
neighbourhood, when the Gentleman.-who
states this unfortunate circumstance came a
way.
June 6.
Maj. Gen. Fawcett having marched from
Duncannon fort, with a xomoany of the
Meath regiment, w.is furronnded by a very
large body betweerv Taghmcn and Wexford
and defeated. The gearral cffeSed hit m
treat to the fort. (Official.)
The town of Newtown Barry was attac
ked June i, by the Rebels: They surround
ed it in such a manner that Col. L'Eftrange,
at firft retreated in order to colic & his force.
Hethen attacked them and drove them from
the town with great Daughter, and pursued
them several miles. 500 of the Rebels were
killed. The colonel's whole force was about
33°- (Official.)
A party of rebels in endeavouring to eil
ter Carlow have been defeated. (Official.)
Yesterday's Irilh Mails brought news to
June 2* The Rebels appear to derive mi
litaiy inftru&ion from their frequent disas
ters. In the North of Ireland which has
affefted much loyalty, such indications of
revolt have appeared that martial law ia de
clared there. This was done at Belfaft on
Sunday last.
It is feared the Toulon fleet has eluded
the vigilance of admiral Nelson. [We
think our accounts via Gibra tar and New-
Yotk later than any news from the ftreights
in London at the above date. Nelson was
off Toulon, the beginning of June.]
June 7.
A mail from Dublin and one from Wa
terford arrived yefterdsy with neirs to the=
3d. No aQion had taken place since the '
Ift inft. Hje rebellion still rages with un
abated violence in the counties of Wicklow,
Carlow and Welford, and it is feared is ex
tending to Kilkenny and Tipperary, the
former of which is proclaimed under martial
law- The rebels still hold the city and part
of Well ford—from whence women and
children have fled to Milford in Wa'es ;
where those who have long existed in afflu.'
ence andeafe arenec< filiated to buylodgings
in barns cr llet p is the fields.
Secretary Dundas is affiled with 1 fit oi
th.- palsy.j&The French are preparing fov ar. imme- f
flfate descent on the island of Alderney.
DUBLIN, May 31.
« M'Coon aft apothecary is apprehended,!
find his apprentice deposes, that he has with
!hn a few days fold above a thousand ounces ;
if of arfenicto various petfons-who were fer
| vants.
i Five Rebels of Wicklow county have fta
f tinned* themfel»es on the Black Mountain or
Bbckmoor Hill two miles from Buffing-1
ton. They live in tents. They fend out 1
Jarge parties to procure provisions and Com
mit depH'dafior'tt.
Ar Nanenajjh, two Roman Catholic
priests are ordered to be tranfparted for
treafoji.
The reftor of Kyle and his whole fami
ly, infants and all, have been butchered by
the rebels. The families of Mr. Bookey,
Mr. Barringtoh, and others, have fliared
tl>e fame fate.
Certain insurgents are encamped on the
ucaffailable position of Glandelough. Here
they will be starved to terms.
. The insurgent cimp at Blackmoor Hill,
has been taken possession of by government
and the rebels driven frflm it—with the /ofs
of their provisions and camp materials, and
7of their horde. They were 1000 Ilrong
—and were defeated by about 100.
June 2-
Among the rebels near Narragmore, was
an Amazonian leader. She fired two (hot
at the col. of the regular troop?. She is j
taken ; but the treason aft cannot well be 1
lit.'tally pur in force against her.
• Toulon fleet has no horses on board. It
has saddles and bridles and orders to procure
horses at the place of their debarkation.
June 4.
News is jufr received of an a<£fion at Bal
}yea<<ewt in which 200 rebels were slain.
At R6chft>iirg, the rebefe were burning
federal houses", when trtrops approached.
They attacked the advanced party, routed
them and killed their worthy leader, lieut
Buckley, mangling his body in the most
(hocking manner, at the coming up of the
main body they fled-
FEVERSHAM, May 21.
135 men from Whi liable, 119 from Fe
verlham, and 92* from Milton, have jnft vo
luntarily entered the navy.
SWITZERLAND, May 9.
Citizen Bay, president of the chamber
of administration of Berne, has been arret
ted in the midst of the eleftoral aflembly,
by order of the French commissary, Rou
hiere, for having represented the impoffi
foilityof complying with the demands of
France, for the immediate payment of the
required contribution. The Helvetic di
reftory complained of this gross outrage ;
but Bay on the 12th remained in custody
LONDON, May 26.
Sir R, Strachau is bombarding the town of
Havre de Grace, and has already destroyed fe-
bqats.
It is said therommandant of Oftend was ar
retted after thelale affair.
May jo.
About twelve English privateers, fitted out
at Gibraltar, having taken several valuable priz
es, amour.ting in numb r to about 130, for im
mediate security, they were carried into Malta ;
which port, before they could carry off their
prizes, was blockaded by a French force. His
majesty's ships \ edufaof 50 jjuns, the Incon
fcant frigate of 36 guns and Le Benne Citoyenne
of 24 guns were then d fpatched to relieve the
piivateers and to afiift them in bringing away
their prizes. When they had reached the place
of their destination and before thry could effedl
the service 011 which they were dispatched, ano
ther French fsree, flill more ftiperior succeeded
in blocking up the frigates. In confequeDce of
this intelligence, Sir Horatio Nelson was dis
patched with ten fail of the line, as well to re
lieve the blockade of the privateers and the fri
gates, as to watch the operations of the Toulon
fleet.
June 6.
Gen Durdas in Ireland, having issued a pro
clamation, promifir.g pardon to such insurgents
as would furr«nder themselves, profefs contri
tion, and take the oath of abegiance, it was
mov ed that he should be tried by a court martial I
bnt it did not obuin.
June 7.
The French official return of English prison
ers taken at Oftend, states them at 1424; ( e *"
clofive of XSO killed and wouuded,) viz. 2 Maj.
Gens. 5 Aids. 5 Officers of rank, 25 captains,
29 Ltsi 1 Sea Captain, 1200 Subalterns and
Soldiers, and 150 Sailors. They are to be re
moved to Brussels.
June 8.
Yesterday arrived the Waterford andDonaug
hadae Mails. The rebels, to the amount of
I t ,coo are encamped on the mountain of Forth
situated near the sea, about ten miles from Wex
ford, so advantageously, as will require a great
military force to diQodge them. Their front is
proteiled by a numerous body of horse; and
eigTit pieces of artillery, and the sea is in their
rear. Here they intend to make their grand
stand. They have their apprehensions, and are
determined, at any rate to fell their lives dearly
and sooner than surrender to throw themselves
into the sea.
Another account states, that the rebels have
been driven from Wexford, with the loss of 900
men, but that the king's military also experienc
ed great lMs, the pikes of the insurgents (14
feet in length ) preventing the effe«s\ual use of
jhe bayonet. It 'S said a company of the North
Cork Militia and a detachment of Meath Militia
have been all cut off by the rebels.
Gfiirral Dundas has a court mar
tial. .
\ fellow apprehended at Dublin hasconfefied
noncern in a plan for burping Paliament house ;
and that he fired the house of Commons a few
years since.
The Hydra frigate of 38 guns has driven a
French frigate and two c«rvettes on (hore near
Havre. The frigate was set on fire and aban
doned. It is probable the Toulon fleet is bound
tor the S W of Ireland.
Letters from L'fbon, fay Nelson has again
joined Earl St Vincents, whit h being alio joined
Ixy Curtifs eonftfted of 32 fail of the line with
which he was determined to go in purfuitof the
Toulon fleet, leaving a small fq jadron to watch
Cadiz.
Privateer Cardine, of- Nant/, of 18 guns
ar.d 125 mtn, is taken.
Not witli (landing all caution in facqusinting
Lady Fitzgerald, will) the death of lu-r husband
file fainted, and when rei-uVeriiig from that fit,
fell into a delirium.
July 9.
The French have imjiofed contributions en
the Canton of Berne to the amount of half,
a million sterling. They have robb.ed the inhab
itants of 1 heir money and plate. From the city
of Berne they have sent to France sixty waggons
.loaded with plunder.
It is with heart-felt sorrow we announce, that
the spirit ot rebellion in Ireland, so far from lee
ing subdued by the vigor us measure adopted by
government, continues to spread ks baneful in
fluence "i© parts remotely fituitef from fhe'iuA
tropolis. The ccfunty of Wexford, which' Rail',
ever been (liftiigoifhed for inflexible loyalty,
now ftarrds feremoft in the fcenr of outrageous
4ifaffe<2jon, and prefents-a more hoiiile and for
midable front to his majefty'i forces than any
other part of the kingdom.
Loudon Gazette Extraordinary,
Friday, June x.
WHITEHALL, June x.
A dispatch, of which the fallowing is a copy,
h*» been this day rece ; ved (com his excellency
the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland by his Grace
the Duke of Portland hi» jnajefty's principal ,
secretary as Hate for the home department.
Dublin Castle, May 28, half past four P. M.
My Lord,
Intelligence has been revived that the infur
reflion is spreading southward, and has broke
out in great force in the county of Wexford ;
and I have to inform your Grace, with infinite
concern, that the rebels in that quarter have af
lembled in such foree that they have cut off a
party of 100 men of the North-Cork militia,
who were ftnt to meet them. Col Foote, who
has returned to Wexford, ilates the numbers of
the rebels to be at and a great num
ber of them mounted Measures are taken to 1
march againfl this body, and I hope they will
be met and defeated, i have received accounts
from Col Campbell, al Athy, between whom,
and Gen Dundas the commnnieajron has been
stopped.that hehashad partiftHrr.gagements with
the rebels; that at Manadereven an.J Carlow
they nave been defeated, 400 killed at t he latter
place, and 30 at the former. He also iuf rms
gen Lake that his men are in h'gh spirits. I will
not close this letter till the last moment of the
mail leaving Dublin, that I may give your Grace
the last information. I have the honor to be &c
---(Signed) CAMDEN.
Nine o'clock, P. M.
No further accounts have been received from
the country since the middle of the day. Gen.
Lake went to Naas last night, and is not yet re
turned.
I inclose your grace the publication put forth
this day by the Roman Catholics.
To such of the Deluded People now in Rebellion
against his Majesty's Government in this King
dom as prof est the Roman Catholic Religion :
The underftgned Roman Catholics of Ireland
feel themselves earnestly called on to remon
ilrate with such of the deluded people of that
persuasion as are now engaged in open rebellion
against l»is majesty's government, oa the wick
ed tendency and consequences of the conduit
which they have embraced. They apprehend
with equal horror arid concern, that such delud
ed men, in addition to the crime committed a
gainst the alleigance which they owe to his ma
jelly, have in fame instances, attempted to give
to their designs a color of zeal for the religion
whn»K they -profefs I—The1 —The undersigned profefs
equally with them the Roman Catholic Religion
—some of them are biftopsof that persuasion,
others are heads of the leading families who pro
fefii that religion, and others are men of the
fame persuasion, who, by an honorable indultry
have under the Constitution now fought to be
subverted, raised themlelves to a fitujtion which
affords them, in the most extensive sense, all the
comforts of life Tile underlined of each de
fcriptien concur in entreating such of the delud
ed who have taken up arms against the eltablifh
ed government, or entered into engagements
lending to that effc£t, to return to their allegi
ance —and by relinqui/hing the treafonablc plans
in which they are engaged, to entitle themselves
to that mercy which their lawful Governors
anxiously wish to extend to them. A contrary
conduit will inevitably fufcjefl them to loss of
life and property, and expose their families to
ignominy and beggary—rvihilft at the fame time
it will throw 011 the religion, of which they
profefs to be the advocates, the most indelible
stain ; on this point the unfortunately deluded
will do well to consider, whether the true inter
ests and honor of the Roman Catholic religion
are likely to be most considered by the Bilhops
of that persuasion—by the antient families who
profefs that religion, and have refilled eve
ry tsmptatipn to relinquiib it—by «nen who at
once profeffing it, and .submitting.to the present
Constitution, have arrived at a itate of affluence
which gratifies every wifii or by a'fej <:F des
perate and profligate men, availing themselves
of the want of education and experience in
those who they seeK to use as inftrum'ents for
gratifying their own ivicked and interested views
—at all evsnts, the underligned feel themselves
bound to rescue their names, and, asfaras in
them lies, the religion which they profefs, from
the ignominy which each would incur from an
appearance of acquiescence in such criminal and
irreligious conduit ; and they hesitate not to de
: clare, that the accomplilhment views of
the deluded, of their peifuafion, if effedled,
muftbe effected by the downfall of tlieolergy—
of the ancient families—and refpeilable com
mercial men of the Roman Catholic religion.
The undersigned individuals of each of which
description, hereby publicly declare their deter
mination to stand or fall with the present exist
ing Constitution.
The private advices received by the Mail yes
terday state that tranquility has been restored in
the county of Kildare, by the submission or re
duiftion of the insurgents in that quarter. Some
fay that Several thousand rebels have thrown
themselves on the mercy of General Dundas,
and promised to repair the bridges which they
have destroyed ; while others assert that they
were surrounded by the King's troops, and niade
prisoners.
Lady Edward Fitzgerald is arrived at the
house of the Duke of Leinfter, her brother
in law, in Harley (beet, ii confeqatnce of
the funrlrtoh whicft (lie lately feceived from
the Irish government to quit that kingdom.
It is said, that her ladyship means to pro
ceed to Hamburgh conformably to an order
of his Grace of Portland to. that effeft.
Mr. Pelham is arrived from Ireland, and
it is said he does Rot mean to return to his
official fituaiion in ihat couutry.
June 1.
PITT and TIERNEY.
Common Council.
A court was held yeflerday atGmldhal';
prtfent the lord mayor, Mr. Recorder, Mr.
Common Sergeant, several Aldermen, and
upwards of fifty commoners.
Mr. Deputy Birch, after arguing some
fimton the I<te duel between t'.c fiiinifter
and Mr- Tieroey, msde the foil-wing mo
tion 1 ; viz.
..That thisißourt, duly fenfihle of the great
importance (if prefervihg its their purity the
privilege's enjoyed by the reprtfen'atives of
this free and ijideoindeot, country in parlia
merit, and cpic.-tvr'g the freedom of de
bate to be the chief pillar and most lading
security of tholie privileges, refieft,- with
the deepest regret, on a late unprecedented
event, wherein the right hon, Mr. Pitt,
chancellor of the exchequer, t»n aocnnnt of
public difference of fentirrtent ifi the Brf
ti(li senate, was invited, as a test of honor,
to the rafil ordeal of pfivate wrong ; and
seriously lament, that the dignity of par
liamentary debate Iras b&n violated by ter
minating in recourse to arms.
Mr. Waithatn entirely disapproved of the
motion, and imagined, by the deputy's in
troduftiqn to it on the business, that he in
tended to have moved the coftrt to <y>n
gratulate the minister on the fortunate ter
mination of the event,
Mr. Hodgfton expressed himfelf entirely
against the motion, and was much futprifed
at the worthy deputy's bringing a quefiion
of that nature before the court. Heconclud
ed by lamenting that both the gentlemen
were not taken into custody for fettingfuch
an example,particularly on the fahbath day.
Several other gentlemen expressed their
disapprobation of the motion ; upor which
Mr. Deputy Birch requclled leave to with-'
draw it ; which was immediately cor.fented
to.
BOSTON, August 8.
TRIBUTE OF HONOR.
J.ifortriationbeingreceived yesterday, that
our beloved P r <fident, was approaching his
refide'nce, the Independent Cavalry, of this
town, commanded by capt.*Amcry, pro
ceeded to Watertown, where we lea n his
excellency will be this forenoon. He will
arrive-at Quincy about noon this day.
Among the candidates of the approach
ing eieftion in New-Hampfiiire, of Federal
lleprefentatives, for that (fate, in the next
Congrcfs we note with pleasure the name cf
Joseph Dennie Esq.—a geatleman whofc
fpendid talents,, inflexible integrity and pre
eminent attachment to his country's ititereft,
have justly entitled him to this mark of ref
peiland confidence fromhis difcerningfellow
citizens.
Quarter-mafler-Geaeral Davis, has taken
a view of the heights atNantafl{et, and Go
vernor's island, preparatory to the intended
fortifications thereon. A furnace for heat
ing balls, will be erefted on former.
The Dublin yeomanry corps have been
disarmed fufpe&ed of a league with the re
bels. The person who discovered the plan
of the infurgeats has been petitioned, and is
gone to England.—By the dife'overy, the
deposit of the rebel arms ; the great Seal for
regenerated Ireland, and the dress of the to
be Dire&ory, were d«e&e3» A reinforce
ment of ten thoufatid men is to fail from
England to Ireland.
FRENCH PIRACY.
ExtraS of a letter from captain yobn Crust,
late majler of the brig Sally, of this port,
dated Baltimore, Ju'y 30.
•' J have again experienced a fate similar
to that of my last voyage, being captured
by French frigate La Decade, and sent in
to Cayenne, there condemned both vessel
and cargo, in the mofl injuftifiable manner,
and .nyfelf and crew lurned ashore without
a farthing. In this situation I made
application to both the commander of the
frigate, and the cemmiffary of the port, for
a small part of my advent ure,to support me,
or even part of my cabin stores, that were
left, but was by them treated with an eye
of contempt, and rcfufed even to a biscuit.
This treatment might only be expected from
the most uncivilized, and savage nation, but
at prefeut, I compute the French to be no
better, as they certainly are possessed with
neither the principles of men, nor the .feel
ings' of humanity. Liberty, which they
firft •ontentfed for, is now changed into
greater fiavery than in the reign of any of
their kings, as never was there a monarch
yet ever reigned, tVat was invested with so
much power, as the Dire&ory's agent in
Cayenne ; he has both the military and the
civii power in his !«mds, and can put to
death whom he pleafe's, without any trial ;
several instances, which had happened just
before my arrival, by his ordering several
black soldiers shot f6r only complaining of
their allowance of provilions, not being fuf
ficient to support them.—Americans were
treated with disdain, and those of the inha
bitants that were any ways disposed well to
wards them, were forbidden .conne&ing
then.selves with them.
" Reasons assigned for condemnation :
lit, being bound to Snrinam and a market,
as expressed by the clearance.—2d. Roled'
Equipage not in order, as by bring expres
sed on the back of it, being given by request
of merchants and captains, and not acknow
ledged by Cougrefs.—3d, it not being wit
nessed (as they fay) of the Notary's signing
it, when he did." -
Lift of vessels at Ciyer.nc, July q.th by capt.
Crust "Juha has arrived at Baltimore paJJ'en
g er. - J'.-/ o
Schr. of Boston, "capt. Manner, condem
ned ; fchr. of Philadelphia, »ppt. Clifton,
condemned; (hip Johanna, Nantucket, capt.
iCoffin, With 1900 bbls. ofl, homeward
.bound ; brig Betsey, capt. Hills, bound to
Surinam ; brig Betsey, capt. Choate, be
logging to Mr. Butler. The two last ves
sels had not g.it into the harbour, but lay
2 miles off so that they had not come to tri
al ; but not the least profpeft of thiir being
cleared 3s they cunclemn ail.
Capt. John Crust, of the brig Sally of
this port, bound to Surri»am, carri
ed in'o Cayenne, and to demned vessel and
Xlfttpasette* -
PHIL ADELP HIA ,
MONDAY EVENING, 'Aug<s 13.
city-hospital report,
From nth to 12th Aiignft.
ADMITTED SIXCE LAST RETORT.
Barbara Heyfer, Walnut near Fifth street.
Rachel David, Bakers alley, between Vine
and Ne>v street.
Anhibald Beanie. -5
Thomas BicWle, No. 196, North Third fit,
Augustus Simon, Fourth street," between
• Spruce-ar,d Union.
John Leai'fon, near JevTburial ground.
Wm. Curvey, • t3ken in the streets.
' : D 1 El*" SINCE LAST RE.PORT.
John' Yard, ill 4 days previous to admiffian
Stephen Davis 5 do,.
John Porteij 5 do.
John Poney 4 do.
Thos. Biddle 6 do,
John Boyle 5 do.
ELOPE.D —ONE.
REMAINING IN HOSPITAL, EIGHTEEN.
Interred since lad report, in City Hospital
burial ground—
From the City " 3
Suburbs 2
In the night unknown I
City Hospital 6
Total, 12.
From 12th to 13th Augtift.
ADMITTED sIN C 5 LAST REPORT.
John Elliot, No. 121 South Water-street
Eleanor Cahill, No. 17 Walnut-street
John Kuas, 11 th, near Race-street
Elizabeth Wilson, From Gej-mantown
Abraham Pre, Lombard, above 6th street
Patri/k Dening, Catnpiogtou,;.. .
Bridget Walker, Water, between Arch It
Race-flreets
Jane Carney, Germanftreet, between 3d &
4th ft-eets
Jane Barry, No. 22 Sprtice-ftreet.
DIED SINCE LAST REPORT.
Barbara Heyfer, ill 3 days previous to ad.
William Dorrin 4 do.
Samuel Alexander 2 do.
Archibald Beattie 10 do.
Remaining in the Hospital 23.
Interred in City Hospital burial ground
since lad report.
From the City 3
Campington 3
Snuthwark 2
Alma House 1
City Hospital ,4
Total 13.
Wm, JONES, Preftdent.
Attest, \
Timothy Paxson,
Died —yesterday morning, Mrs. Lisle,
wife of Mr. James Lisle, merchant, of this
city.
On Friday evening, Mrs. Maria
Delamar, wife of Mr. Peter Delamar,
formerly an eminent mathematician in the
city of Dublin, and now of the university
of Pennsylvania.
Yefterdry morning, two men by name
Fitzgerald and Dorfey, were apprehended
and committed to the prison ot this city,
for counterfeiting feviral fpeci-3 of filvtr
coi i, viz French crowns, dollars, quarters
and eighths of dollars, and piftareens
. All their materials, such as hrllows, dies,
&c. were fecurtd, together with a qaartity
■of the coin, in its unfi lifhed state—the dies
are well made, and appear to be the work
of some hand /killed in coining.
It appears that they have been engaged
in the biifinefs for three week past, but we
do n?t Icara that any of their coin has been
in circulation ; federal others were engaged
in the business, after whom ftrift search is
making by the con'iables and other civil
.officers, and wi doubt not, they will soon
keep company with theirbrethren, who are
already secured.
Wc hear that Government have purcha
sed two faft foiling pilot boatfchooners, to
be empjuyedas packets, to facilitate the con.
veyance of the mails between the Capital and
Charleston and Georgia. Captain Silas Fos
ter. and Captain Pryor, we understand are
appointed to command them.
The meitis taken by thelrilh insurgents to con
ceal th«ir arms from the military,, w!:o were con
stantly in search of them, prev.oiis to the com
mencement of the rebellion, were these They
packed them tip carefully in coffins; and, by ma
ki-g(ham funerals, conrived, from.time to time,
to hury imiaenfe quantities of th<in, which they
afterwards Jug up as often as eccafion required.
Fifty of the e'efli,®ns in France have been an
nulled. Neither Talfien nor Berlin of Thionville
have been returned;
The American dlfpatches had no", been publilh-
e d in France twenty diys after their receipt thcr».
The person who revealed the whole plan of the
Irish confpiraty to the Englilh government, has
left Dublin, ami gone to reside in England on a
pension of 3001. per-annum.
The King of Prußia will not acced# to the de
mands of. the French made at Raftadt congrcfs.
French troops ore marched to the Rhine to accel
erate the cogitations of the congrefi.
A final treaty of peace is couciuJed between
I Fr-Snce Naples. ' A
The French, in the rrueVnirit of gifconadinjj,
have lately si t up to sale, in hjmfc of tt.e jot ruats,
the following maofiens in Engl»nd, , v|z. the
Qu£*n'.-i houf.;, St. James's Hark, Portland lioufe,
and the Marqitin of Buckingham's house at Stbwe.
Ridiculous aj this vaunt appears, We have ho'douht
but' thry may have some mock j<urthifers to keep
*p thefpirit of intoxication wKi<h is io much the
leading ica'tire of tke Great Nation.
A member of the Irish house of comnlons,
fpeakingof,th: present disturbance* in that coun
try, openly -r.n"crt#<i, that a f-crrt c ;nfpirsc}' in
t at country had hetn mtorimi fee. five years
The unhappy inhabitants of Ireland are fleeing
fron the horrible difquietiiies ancl miseries of 'tkeir
, nforturate country, to any place H'fifers they fee
hr door ot hoff'tairty ofenrd totyicHvc thertj
.
All fefpe&*b)e f?milics that cm, arc cinbifLng
for England j >
Dublin is d.chrsd out of the King': peace.
Thffei»ir..-WS.'/ DircSory jufl fy their eondu&
in the recent Fcgothtion with us. by declaring it
to be the'r wifti to revive the'gtUm age in Fcance«
Nothing has tended so fnuch to inflame? th? ifri*
ttble and heate.l mihds of the deludci peca'e of
Ireland, as the cruelties prailifed upon rntn wlidm
they loved and everi idolized—such as their ptiefW
and masters. ' Tlie panfh pried of Ninah was pnbJ
licly flogged this Old man was adored by hisflock J
and such was the Veneration in which he wgsheW,
that they cot»Cdered the violence oo his perfen is
an outrage Ob God, of wjiofe. vvrrd he v/a, the
organ ; it was, in their eyes, like trampling oil
the rrofs, as a mockery of the host. Another priilk
of the name of Feriton, was also floj|j;ed. Thcfo
are the a£U that hav* funk deep inte the hearts of
tM~tri(h people; th# lower orders of whom, tho'
easy tb be infatuated and mifl-d, are warm mfheir
attachments, aad enthusiastic intheir rewren.ee of
religion and i* Jninillers. • 1
On the ift of June, upwards of 30,000 Quaker!
were in Loadon, at their annual meeting.
" ina Leydeti paper of France hav
ing declared war Sgainft America, is rot confirm
ed by the last mails.—L. yap . .
D Skinner, Esq. a gin'kman connefled in an
eminent mercantile houle in Norway, in a ftatc of
lunacy, shot himf.li lately in London.
DUF.I, kefwesn PITT and riER>»EY.
Mr. Pitt, on the 15th May, in -the Eiitifii par
liament, proposed a bill for the better fupplyin«*
the navy with men in the prefert vxigency, and
recommended the fufpetifion of ail exemptions and
prote&ions; for this purpose. Mr Ticrnry oppo
sed the measure, and r.flefled on Mr. Pitt as fre
quently infraiting the liberties of Uritilh fuhjeils.
Mr. Fiti urged the *loption of the bill, ccmmtnt
ed on Mr. Tierney'sfpcech, and charged hisoppo
fitioti, " as proceeding from a. wish to impede the
service of the country." Mr.Tierneyy called t<»
order, The speaker said if the ■». oris weir dsftjn
ed as apcrlsnal reflexion, they were utiparl amen- _
tary & disorderly. Mr Pitt refuled to or
retraifl. This was on Fridw. On Saturday h- '-e
---ceiv*d a challenge from Mr Tierney, which he
receptee'. They/ougliLncar Aherfhaw's gibbet en
Putney Heath. The 'Speaker,- Mr. VVhitbread,
and Mr. Grey, as well as two
tioued'near the fpet. A«r. Pitt went tu the ground
accompanied by Mr. Rider, ic a hacl: rod.! ail'e ;
Mr. Tierney, with col. Walpo'e, in a hackney
coach. Nearly an (i'vr was spent *n rr v nvori ij»
to bring abdu" a reconcilia'ion before the duel c m
. menced. After the fecoad fire, the fecoml< infix
ed that the affair lhould tern intite ; and, after a
1 long confutation between the fecom'.s (during
which time the two combatants were left in con
version together) the account which has appeared
in the different papers was drawn,up. Mi Put
and Mr. Tierney (book hands before they- left the
ground. Mr. T. sent a note to the minister ot»
Friday, as soon as he left thehoufe of commons.
The time and place of meeting were appointed by
Mr. Pitt.
EXECUTION OF O'COIGI.EY.
O'Coigley, a clergyman, has been executed in
Ireland for high treason.
When he arrived at Pennrnden Heath, to which
pla e he had been conveyed in theufual manner 00
a hurdle, he-proceeded to read some latin andKn
glifh prayers. After reading about five minntes,
he t«ok an orange out of his pocket, and then a
penknife ; but his arms being bound behitul, he
could not cut the orange ; upon which he beckon
ed to a friend, who attended him, faying—" Cut
this orange with my penknife : It has been said
they would not trust.me with a penknife) le?. L
fheuld cut my throat; but they little knew that 1
would not deprive myfelf of the glory of dying
in this way."—He desired his friend to keep hi*
penknife lor his fake, and' to hold fbrne of the
pieces of orange, all of which he ate ill d'e course
of his devotions. Alter he had finifhcrf the long
prayer, he kneeled inthe hurdle, anrifunga psalm;
He then repeated another prayer to hinifelf, witii
which he concluded—A Romini clergyman, of
the name of Griffiths, who had in vain solicited
him to make confeflions, gave him abfclution. He
then fliook hands with all around him, and imme
dia'ely afcecded the platform by means of a lad
der, and on tied up to the gallows, he deliv
ered a speech, fomc parts ol which were very vi
olent.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST,
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived, Pavs
Ship Molly, Hadge Liverpool 80
Mary Ann, Stewart, Isle of May 157
Thefhip Mary Ann Strwardfa3edYramthe
Isle of May the 4th ult. left th-re the bar
que Mars Hathaway, of and for this port to fail
in 8 clays, and the brig George, Beetham,
of and lor Boston the next day—the ship
Frier.dfhip, Coffin, failed 5 days before the
Mare Ann, Netv-Ycrk. July 6, Captaii
Stewart spoke in lat. 16, long 26, the ship
Neutrality, Baker, out 40 days from Boston
10 Cantotl, all well.
Seventeen fail%>f foreign -outward bound
vessels lay at New Castle on Saturday iaft.
Nfrjj Tork, Augiijl, 11.
arrived DAYS.
Brig William, , Pbiladtlphia
Ann, Law, New Orl ar.s 28
Else, Raymond, Jeremie 18
Sclir. Nancy Wofter, Virginia 2
Louis, Jones. Wilmington 5
Sloop Peggy, Bailey, Do.
Bojiun, Augvjl. j.
The union, Lunt, from America, wag
captured by a French privateer May 21.
The aurora, Bartlet, from America for
Bilboa, ij sent into Plytnou h, for examina
tion
, The Two Brothers, of N. York, from
Bourdeaux for Hamburgh, is sent into Eng
land.
Brig , Clark, of Boston, is condem
ned at Guadeloupe,
Netv-London, Augvjl. 8.
The Ur.ited Stated frigate Conflitotion,
Capt. Nicholfoti, was spoke Monday after
noon, by Mess Tinker and Gardiner in the
Sally ; She was between Judith and New
port Light-Hr,ufe. Capt. Nicholfon wished
to be mentioned in the gazette. A v heavy
connoonding was heard yesterday afternoon
the south fide of fcong-Ifland.
FOR SALE,
A FARM on the road leading to Stste Island,
within foot and an haltmiles of Philadelphia,
containing 45 a -' c * n the higficft ftatc of cultivation
—ajieres of which is meadow, the remainder UD
laud. 1 here areon the premises, a new framr House
aisd with an excrllent kilchen ftrder, contain
ing • numbe r of frit Trees.—'■lmmediate pofljk
flO'i will be giver.
Tor terms apply to
Thomas W. Frontis,
No. 98 South Third fir ~ti
ju«y 18a •Lands for sale by private Coo: met,
PrepoiVs will be ri-ctired, by the fubicriber,
vinti 1 ;he firJi day of September next, for the
purchase of any ; f the following very valuable
trails of land with their improvements.
In the -Stpte ©f New-York,
No. i. Tyo lots of ground situate in the
county of Aibany in the town called Lanfing
burgh, and diflinguifbed or known on a map of
laid town by the names of No. 71 and 72.
2. Two trails of land situate in the town ef
West-Chester, the one of them near Oliver De
lancy's, John Cox's and John Palmer's land, ad
joining Brouhs River, the other of them near
Devilard's fnuff mill, Delancy's land and ad
joining Brouh's river the whole containing about
84 acres.
3. A trail of land situate in the county of
West-Chester, on the road from Kings-Bridge
t« Delancy's Mills containing about 66*t acres.
4 A trail of land situate in Montgomery
ounty, being apart of the trail called Jelfup's
urchafe and known and distinguished in a divi
on of the said purchase into townlhips by being
art of townlhip No. 4. beginning at the S. W.
ounds of said purchase and at the southerly cor
ner of said townlhip containing by estimation
aboutj6lt aces.
f. A tra-ft of land situate in the county of
Montgomery, aforefaid, being also a part of
Jefiup's purchase and known and distinguished
in division of the said purchase ipto townlhips,
by being pirt of townlhip No. 31 beginning at
S. W. bounds of said townlhip at the distance of
t6i chains and 50 links from the moll southerly
earner thtreof.
6. A trail of land situate in U'fter county,
being pavr of the trail of land known by the
name of th; Great or Hat denbuf ghs patent, con
taining about 6000 atres^
7. A trail of land situate in the county of
Ulster aforefaid on the N. E. fide of the river
Delaware, being also a part of the land fcrmer
y granted to Johannes Hardenburgb and others
commonly known by the name of the Green
patent it being a part of a great lot No. 1. at
the general partition of said patent which came
to the (hare of 1 horaas Newham one of the
proprietors, and is knows and distinguished on.
the msfs of the sub-division thersof made by
Charles Webb, furveyr*r in the year 1751 by
lot No. 60 ; this land runs some distance on the
river Delaware abost 3157 acres
8. A trail Of land in the county of Ulster a
forefaid in the fuuth tier of lota in the Harden
burgb patent being the lot No. J2, containing
about 12,650 arres excepting theresut 320 acres
heretofore praat by Robert R, Livingfton to
Nathaniel Sachel. *
9. A trail of land situate in the county of Ul
-1»r, beginning on the Papekunk river, and ad
joining t:)C 14th monument in the general divi
i'.on of the Hardenburgb patent, containing
about ,toco aci*cs.
10. Two equal undivided seventh parts of two
several parcels of lands situate in the townlhips
of Chemung in the county of Tioga on the S.
W. fide of l"ioga river, the fame being part of
a trail of about 20,00 c acres, these two feventhy
contain about 5763 actes.
11. One equal and undivided feverith part of
the said 20,000 acre trail in Tioga county beißg
about 2,886 acres.
is. On£ equal and undivided feverith part of
fai.i 21,000 acre trait in Tioga county being al
so about 2,886 acres.
In the State of Maryland.
13. A trail of land now called Bayley's pur
chase in Prince George's couhty, near to a bay
or cove called, Anocollin coye, containing about
1212 acres of prime land,.
14. A tra£l of land called Fortune Enlarged,
and pirt of a trait called tfeall's adventure en-
Tai ged, iliolh lying in Prince George's county on
the bia'nch of the Potomack, containing
about i 16 acres.
15. A trail of land with the house and im
provement called Arpn, lying on the eaftem
branch of the river Potomack. opposite to the
city <>f VVSih'iKgton in. Prince George's tounty
centaioiug about 75 acres.
16. A trail of land wtih the houses, mills,
other buiHing3 and improvements lying near
Fort Cumberland in the county of Walhington
containing about 2088 acres.
17. A trail of land situate in the county of
Walhington, adjoining to Fort Cumberland,
containing 430 acres or thereabouts.
18. One undivided moiety of a tra£l of land
in Allegany county, called spruce spring, the
whole of which contains about 120 acres, alio ,
ore undivided moiety of 23$ trails or lots of ]
ground, each of which contains about 50 acres, <
jpd are numbered from 500 to 799 inclusive,
or; itting and excepting three lots which are dif- I
tinpuifVed by the numbers 661, 662 and 684 all 1
■which- said lands adjoin.
In the State of Virginia- '
A trail tf Meadow land with eonfidsrable :
improvements, lying on Hunter's creek,Dorrell's '
creek, Mui'dy creek and the river Potomack; (
and adjoining the city of Alexandria containing '
by patent iijrj acres. 1
Edward Fox, auctioneer.
Philadelphia, Jur,?sih, 1798. 2aw j
ADVERTISEMENT. 1
WHT RF. AS David and John Graham, late '.
of the city of Philadelphia, merchants, 1
have afligned ever all their tffccls, real and per- '
fonal. to the fubferibers, for the benefit of their f
creditors—
Notice is hereby given,
To all persons who are indebted to said eflate,
that th:y arc required to make imnediate payment *
o: their refpeifive debts to the aflignees at their of
fice No*. 62 Dock-street. In failure whereof, legal 1
measures will be taken for the recovery of such as !
are cot immediately riifcliarged.
SIMON WALKER, Aflignees of J
CHARLES GILCHP-.IST, >DAVIB&JOHN '
GEORGE HUMPHREYS,J Graham.
July 7. tth&s jfep. c
Now Opening, ]
At Wi l l 1 a m M'L a w sSaddleManufaftory, i
No. 72, Chef nut Street, j 1
A general assortment of Horseman's y
Pillols, direil from the Manufaflurers in London, 0
ALSO ON HAND,
■ Saddles, Bridles, Holflers, Half Covers, Light ii
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Bijxes, Van
liCes, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather e
Trinks, Carriage and Chair Harneft, &c. tl
april 9 dtf Jj
FOR SALE. J!
ATIfREE Story Brick House, on the north r ;
fide of Spruce-street near Second-street,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Joneses garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, tfq.—This j
houfc is incompleat repair with back buildings, j,
cor. filling of a Piazza, Kitchen andahmdfome
Dinir.g Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view a j
the prcmifct,a r:..ore particular description iscon
fidrred Wiiiecefiary.
The terms of payment will be one third cash,
dne third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with ir.tcreft, P'pr further information,
Enquire d JOHN Cll/tIG, °'
Nq. 12 Dcck-Jircet. '!.■
jsay 16 J ,
, r ; PiiOPOKALS,
he b y the
ile Infur a nee Company of North America.
For Insurance agaiwft Fire, on Dw.el!ing-
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Building*) diflant from
|, e Philadelphia, in the United States.
g-
I. Common lufurances, on hazards of the firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
halt per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
! C _ rifques a larger premium will be required, which
will vaiy according to circunftances, seldom ex-.
" cceding one per cent, per annum ; but in some i«-
1 (lances, where the property icfured is not only in
l j" itfelf extrahazardous, hut rendered still morefo
ut by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will bs raifcd
or according to circumllances.
I e Houses and Ware-Houses, th« walls and psrti
1. tions of which are wholly of done or brick, well
ry conilruiletl, so as to be guarded as well as may be
'a against fires from within, and free from extra ha
i- Kardous buildings and occcupations in their neigli
ig borhooti, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
y. class, and may be insured te their full value,
i*. Also Goods and Merchandize, not of an extra
)n hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or packages, de
pofitcd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
0f ceeJing 4000 dollars; but if more than this sum
0 f is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi
»d tlona l premium will be required, in proportion to
circumftasces.
at 11. Insurances will also be made on buildings and
0 f goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
I to the risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or claHes, so as to describe
each with the necessary accuracy. Each cafs mud
■ ' therefore be decided upon according to the circum
stances attending it ; and these circumftanccs will,
1 in general, appear from the description accompa
uying theapplication.
Buildings partly conftruiled of brisk or done,
.r are preferable to those wholly wooder. And in
" both cases, the stile of buif-linc, how they are oc
rs cupied, how they are fttuated, the neighboring
n buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
it be taken into view. And with refpeft t® goods,
ie their tendency, Whether from their nature, or
e from the manner in which they are exposed, either
n, to comnience or to increase an accidental fire, and
y their liability in such slate to receive damage by
y wet, or by sudden and hasty removal, or to'be fto
e len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumflances of weight; and the premiums motl be
proportioned accordingly.
'II. The fellowinr; conditiont are to be under
flood by the parties .
g 1(t • "The fnfurance is not binding till the ftipu
-0 lated »remiura be paid ; but it shall be deemed ef
feclual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
2d. Insurances raay be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
? penfe«than the payment of the premium of the re
newed tcriti,the circumftanccs continuing the fame
a as they were Bnderftood by the Insurers at the time
s the former ir.furance was made ; but the payment
. of the premium is essential to such renewal ; and
f if the party insured fuffers any time to elapfc after
f the expiration of the former infurajree, before he
pay 9 a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
f during such time; sor can the infurarrce be renew
, ed en the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
f of the former iqfurance. The fubjeit of infur
. ance hi a v be open to treaty for a new
infuratice.
3d. if any other insurance bemadeon the fame '
property ; it mull be made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be voitf.
4th Goods held in trull, or on consignment,
may be insured as such in a separate policy ; but
1 they are not to be considered is insured wth'-rwifc.
5 th. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage oceafioned by any for
eign ilivafion, or by any military or ufarped force
or by reason of any civil commotion ; or occasion,
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th
like kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro- '
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu- '
ritics, Title Deeds, Money, Banlt and other pro
miflsry Notes, are not included in any insurance ; '
nor are paistings, nedals, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollarseach, to be considered as insured une
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment. «
7th. No insurance will be made for a shorter 1
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe- '
vera years. Persons clioofing to insure for seven
years lhall be allowed one year's premium by way 1
of difeount: One third of a years premium shall c
be abated in like manner on an insurance for a
three years. r
Bth. LofTes fuflained by fire on property insured, I
shall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and Ii- c
quidation thereof, without deduilion. a
A defciiption of the property to be infurod will f
be I'xpcdted with each application, to be made by v
a master carpenter and signed by him, as well as a
by the owner 0/the building or applicant for in- f
furance, and attefled before a Notary or principal p
Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the 11
parties and their credibility. e
With refpeil to Houses and other Buildings. fl
ifi. The site and position ; describing the 2
street or road on or near which the building f<
stands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumftanccs relative to the extingpifhment of fire c
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether b
any and what fire companies are established, and P
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood.
21!. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of bride, stone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outside walls as inside or
partition walls, and their refpeilive height and
thicknei's ; the flyle of the roof and of what
materials; howfecured by battlements or par- r
ty walls; what kind of access to the top of the
house and to the chimnies 5 whether any and
what eleilric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for ashes. P
3d. Ihe dimensions of the building and how Ie
divided, and the ivle in which it is finifhed so 6,1
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what I rl
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of ;
injury; the age and condition of the building, b<
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel- ' a
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur- ta
pose ; also an estimate of the value of the house
or building independent of the ground. ir:
4th. Tie situation with refpeil to other build-
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that djflaate, how built, of what materials,and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel- fit
lings fir prjvate families or otherwise: whe- '7
tlier any and what trade or manufailory is car- t' l
riedon, and particularly whether there be any ' n
extra hazardous articles used, or tifually depo- J c
sited in the house", or within the distance afore
faid, and of what kind.
in Houses, Warehouses, &c. ~
1. A pencial description of the building in
which they are kept will beexpeiled, similar in
all refpeils, as to the danger from fire, with that /
required for Infuranee on the buildings them
felvcj. £. r (
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calk 9or other packages, thi
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in th« ufiial form for retailing. And «"
if the goods vary materially in-kind, a general K
estimate of the value of each kiad proposed to
•>e iofureil ; hut in the tail f >articuhr >a-inuU
nefs of defcriptinu is not exptiled.
3. Articles of the following kind? are deem
d extra hazardous, though in varioos degrees,
in whatever buildisg they mas he placed, viz.
'id P' I '''' tar ' tu|, V >c 'i'tih'e, l'olwi, wax, tallow, oil,
)m tnmai>!e spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened
Gl-ifs, china ware or porcelain, especially un
rft packed; Looking glasses, jewelery ; and all o
iut ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
us or than commonly liable to injury by fud
ch removal or by moiflures, or particularly
:x-. obnoxious to theft on an alarm of fire,
n- Letters port paid, dire<Sl*d to the Secretary of
in the Board of Directors, will be duly attended
so to. Ail order for Inluranct accompanied by the
nd means of paying the premium, will be imrne
ed diately executed on the premium being paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be aniwered.
Br order of the Beard,
be EBHNEZEK HAZARD, Sec'ry.
,l~ Office of the Insurance Company of Nort!-. )
" America ; Phiiad. Feb, 1, 1798. )
Feb. 14. iamtf
ra John Haines 1$ Wm. Jones,
e " eave to ' n^orm their friends and the public,
D that they have cominenced a Co-partwr(hip
in th* SADDLING SU.SINIiSS, which will ia
future be earned on under the firai of
t0 HAINES & JONES,
1( j n Market ft reef. No. 132, one door above the
,(j corner of they presume (*t lead
f e to hope) that their attention to, and knowledge j n
, e bufineD, thrir determination toferve 6n thelieft
terms, and their knowa attachrjent as Native A
mericans to the Government and Constitution of
i; their Country, wdl entitle them to the encourage
j' ment of a generous public. Although they can
n t boail of having acquired their i-xperience in
e any part of Europe yet they take the liberty of
pledging themrelves, that their tnanufaSure ftal
.. be inferior t.. none in this city.
„ j.une %k. tuthstf
° Ihe following Certificates
Funded Debt an«i Bank of United States
* Stock, were forwarded from England per
j the Countsfs of Leicsfler Packet, in the nth
month, 1797, which vessel has been captured,
and the Ceftificatesfuppofed to b® loft.
4oeo dollars fer cent. Stock, ftandißg on the
hooks of the Treasury, in the name of Bird Savage
e and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th,'96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank ot United States
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 56067, dated the ift day
of January, 1707.
For the laaewalof which certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made at the Office of die
f Treasury of the United States, and at the Bank of
United States ; of which all persons interefkd
therein, are desired to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
4 Philadelphia, 5 mo. 26, 1798.
» . Saw^m
; Canal Lottery, No. 11.
. Considerably more than Half Drawn.
. Draws twice a week, every Monday Tuesday
For Sale, Seven Dollars each, at
WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
: and Brokers office, Mo. 64 South Second-street,
1 where cheek books are kept for examination r.nd
. regiflering in this, City of Washington No. z.
and Paterfon Lotteries and information where
Tickets may be had in most of the Lotteries au
• thorifed by law iii any of the States of the
Union.
State of +he Wheel*
One prize of io,oocr ddlkrs 10,000
Five 4,00® zo,ooo
1 wo a,coo 4,000
Nine 1,000 9,000
Nineteen 500 9>joe
Forty-four ioo B,Soo
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty deliar prizes—the price of tick
ets will soon rife, particularly on account of tbe
five 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the wheel
until the last day of drawing.
Note, the bufintfs of a Broker duly at
tended to in all its branches at the above office
mav 24 'v&stf J
federal Mills, 1
A DJOINING Georgetown, and the City of j
il Washington, will be offered at Public Sale, ,
on the ioth day of Septsmber next, at the Union t
Tavarn, if not previously fold at Private sale.
Thole mills in point of fituationfor bufinefsand
natural advantages are generally admitted to he
equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brick house, eighty feet by fifty, almost
new, in which are erected foir pair of Burr miil
flones with elevators, hopperhoys and baiting
cloths, completely finifhed and conftruCled in such 1
a manner that the whole of the mills may manu
facture flour at the fame time. The country mill
which is creiied near the other, is entirely new,
a flrong flone building, eotjtaiiiing oae pair of
{tones, and built in such a manner that the fecoad
pair maybe put up with little expence. This mill
is conveniently finifhed, and calculated tocarty on
extensively, country work, ef which it gets a cort
ftant fopply. There Is belonging to the said mills
27J acres of land, the whole of which will be t
fold with the mills. ■
One third of the purchase money will be requir
ed in sixty days from the day of sale, and fjr the £
balance a liberal credit will be given, further t
particulars will be roaiskciown on the day of sale.
JOSEPH E. ROWLKS, t
Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROWLES & Co.
Georgetown,july tj. »3—3awts c
Patent Ploughs, £
TO be fold for cash by Joseph Salter at Atfion
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Harker, Woodbury—and JefTe Evans, Lumber- {
ten, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require '
less team, breaic the ground better, are kept in
tirder at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
! rate —the plan is much fi,mplifiiA and confiftsof
but one piece of call iron, with the handles and -
beam of wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lays and coulters to be put on with screws and .
taken off at pleasure
P..tent lights for vending with inflru&ions for .
making them may be had by applying to John £
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 212 North
Front-street.
Who has for Salei
Or to Lease for a term of Tears,
A number of valuable trails of Land, well
situated for Milli, Iron >Vorks or Farms, moS
ly improved, lying chiefly in the c< »inty of Huu- ,
tingdon state of Pennfytaania. Those who may
incline to view them will please to apply to ai
John Canaa esq. near Huntingdon.
. Charles NewbolJ.
July 17 2awtf _
Office for Stamps,
No. 54 Second ftnet, the corner of Ckcfmri greet. A
ALL forttof Blank Stamps, fold by Wlll.nu
Youwc, at the price mpreffed thereon. Also
printed forms of Bonds, Bills of Lading, &c. and
Copperplate Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes ~
&c. attheufual rate, and the addition of the llamp '
thereunto belonging* >
W. Younc has conflantly on hand a ljrgeVff" r t- '
ment of other printed Blanks, and all kinds of Pa
per, and Stationary, wkolelsle anu retail,
july 6. gwead ta
> AN ACT
For the relief off the Refugees from the Britifk
i- provinces of Canada and Nova-Scotia.
s, g I)£ it enaSted by the Striate and ftoufe
z. -D of Reprefbitatives of the United
1, States of America, in Congress ejpmb/ed, That
1, !o fatisf'y the claims of certain persons claiming
lands under the resolutions of Congress, of the
i- tweriiy-third of April, one thousand seven hun
-- dre<i and eighty-three, ;nd the thirteenth of
e, Apiil, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
i- live, as refugees from the British provinces of
ly Canada and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
Department of War, be, and i 9 hereby autho
of >iized and directed to give notice in one or more
■d of the public papers of each of the States of
ie Vermont, -Maffrtchufetts, New-York, New
c. Hampshire and Pennsylvania, to all persons hav-
If ing claims under the said resolutions, to tranf
ill tnit to the War-office, within two years after
the faffing of this a<3, a just and true account
of their claims to the bounty of Congress.
See. 2. And be it further er.aßcd, That no
other persons (hall be entitled to the benefit ctf the
provisions ot this a.51, than those ef the f llow
ing descriptions, or their widows and heirs, viz.
First, those heads of families, and single per
sons, not members of ar.y such families, who
c, were residents in one of the provinces aforefaid,
jP prior to the fourth day of July, one thousand
ia seven hundred and seventy-six, and who aban
doned their settlements, in coniVqijence'of hav
ing given aid to ihe United Colonies or States,
ie in the revolutionary War against Great-Britain,
ft or with intention to give such aid, and continu- !
in ed in the United States, sr in their service, dur
st ing the said war, and did not return to refije it]
i- the dominions of the king of Great-Britain,
>f prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-three. Se-i
condly, the widows and heirs of all such per- j
fens as were ailual residents, as aforefaid, who ,
" abandoned their settlements, as aforefaid, and
' dted within the United States, or in their ser
vice during the said war : and thirdly, all per
_ sons who were members of families at the time
of their coming into the United States, afid who
, s during the war, entered into their service.
r Soc. j. And be it further enaSed, That the
(, proef of the feyeral circotnftances necefla'-y to !
t ( entitle the applicants to the benefits of this a&,
niSy be taken before ft judge of the supreme or
e diftri(sl court cf the United States, or a jud|»e
s of the supreme sr superior court, or the firft jaf
i. tice or firft ju«Jgr of the court ot common pleas
5 or county court of any State.
, Sec. 4. And be it further enafted, That at
f 'he expiration of fifteen months from and after
the passing of thi» jfl, and from time to time
thereafter, it shall be the duty of the Secretary i
- for the Department of War, to lay fu:h evi
; denceof claims as be may have received, before
the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
and with them, proceed to Htaraine the tefii
mony, *nd give thtir judgment what quantity
of land ought to be allowed to the individual
claimants, in proportion to the degree of their
refpeilive services, facrifices and lufferings, in
■confeqnence of their attachment to the cause of
the United States ; allowing to those of the firft
elafs a quantity not exceedingone thoufandacres;
and to the last class, a quantity not exceeding
one hundred, making such intermediate daftes
as the resolutions aforefaid, and distributive jus
tice, may, in their judgment require, and make
report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any
fuch/-laimant lhall have sustained fueh lofles and
luffer.i gs, or performed fucb services for the
United States, that he canaoi justly be claflVd
in any one general class, a separate report fh 111
he made of his circumstances, together with the
quantity of tend that ought to be allowed him,
having reference to the foregoing ratio : Pro
vided, that in considering what compenfitiou
ought to be made by virtue of this a<H, all grants
except military grants, which may have been
made by the United States, or individual States,
(hall be considered at the just value thereof, at
the time the fame were made, refpeftively, ei
ther in whole or in part, as the cife may be, a
latisfa&ion to those who mav have received the
fame: Provided also, that no claim under this
law, (hall be assignable until after report made
to Congress, as aforefaid. and until the said I
lands be granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this aft.
Set. 5. Be it further enaffed, That all claims
in virtue of said resolutions of Congress, which
shall not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
time by this ail limited, shall forever thereafter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Reprefcntatives
TH : JEFFERSON, :
Vioe-Prefident of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, .rfpril 7, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States. \
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of the
Department of State, 1
Timot«y Pickering,
Secretary of State. 3
. Purfmnt ta the above Aft, No- \
tiee is hereby gi'len to all persons hav
ing claims under the resolutions of Con- [
grefs, of the 23d of April, 1783, and b
the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto
the War-Office within two years after
the passing of the said Aft, viz. the 7th
day of April, j 798, a just and true at'
count of their claims to the bounty of
Congrels.
In the proof of Claims, a ftrift atten- e
tion must be paid to the requisitions of
the 2d and 3d Sections of the Aft.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War.
July 19 jaw6w g|
LANDING,
At South Street wha-rf, the cargo of the ihip Con- vi
ne&icut, from Batavia— ta
About 300 tons of Java Coffee, fil
ofthegrowthof 1794 and 179$ "
60 tons of Java Sugar, w
In (annifters—for fak by lii
FE TE A BLIGHT, ni
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR (All, ri
150 Mills, choice Jamaica -Sugars ai
(Jamaica ram in hhds fci
Brandy ift aim 4th proof in pipss, bhds. O
and quarter calks tc
Madeira in pipes ea
Old Batavia Arrack fp
1 5 fh
This Day is Publilhed,
AMBrOKSALESYJ. FENNO, I Iq.CH SSNUT-P a [| T tfc
AN ADDRESS o.
To the People of Maryland, tc
ON the origin, progress and prefcat slate of ■'
Prench aggression. wifli a fcetch of the infamous 'l
attempts to degrade the Government #f the United
■j[2iCS|2nd some rcUcdliontoii the la'.c proceedings
in Congress; written the lall of April in the ure
fentyear, by A Member of the Hcufs of R<prcicn
tativei. § junen
FOR SALE,
'\ft> ,».* Til! SUBS* K.IB**S, WO. 21 fUK-URIIIj Jj
, 18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
ted Willingt & Frauds.
har ionr sg. dtf\
in g tdR-smr
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity 1
0 p Benjamin Monteith Master, from Laguira,
, CONSISTING OF
945 Fenegas of Cocoa
" 4000 lb. of Flora Ibdigo
e JlO Bain of Cotton
4 Packagesof Goat Skias
-By Willing tit Francis.
~ No 91 Peiin itretc.
iv- iuly ? ! dtf
Bourdeaux Brandy,
mt Claret in hhds.
White wine in half hhdj.
no Claret
l,e Sa'uterne' f Wines in Cafe,.
Lundi J
IZ " Red Skins
ho ALSO,
id ° 76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
nd 60,000 Bourbon do.
n . "4 Boxesof white Havanna Sugar—and
v 50 Hogsheads of Tobaoco
, s FO* SALE BT
JOHN SAVAGE.
u-1 1 dtf
'. r - Cotton
Cocoa
Anatto Dye, or
nc Rocoa
>e-| Jufl arrived, per the schooner Three Sifters, WiH
iam Shallcrof*, master, from Cayenne,
) AND FOR SAL£ AT
No. 12, Little Water-street, by
rr- JEHU HOLLINGSWO&TH Isf Co.
r- june 10
H ~ DESERTED,
FROM on board the Ship of war Delaware, ly
ing in Nantalkct Road, Joflph Porter, 5 feet
t0 i 10 inches high, aged 28, born at Concord, Chef
f| tee county, state of Pennfylvann, sandy hair and'
' ' complexion.
, e W *J- Moon, age 4 25, 5 feet 10 inches high,
red hair and red complexion, born in Philadelphia
—'h c only cloaths taken with him is a suit of ma
rine cloathing.
Whoever apprehends the said deserters, shall re
at ceive ten dollar* for each, by applying to
rr W. W. BURROWS,
Major of the Marine Corps,
z AT OTIC E—that the firft Tuef
re -*-7 da Y of August next, is appointed for this
hearing before a Court of Common Pleas, of Al
legheny county, in the State of Pennsylvania, on
ly an application lor the benefit of the a&s of the
a j State, providing for the relief of insolvent debt
ir °. rß ' iv ' u K a t June term last presented my peti
in t * on » a fchepule annexed, of all my efiate,
real, personal, Lnd mixed, rights, an«{ credits, to
_ be alligned for the use of my creditors.
. WILLIAM WUSVHOFF.
'» june 30.
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn
s" pike Road Company,
JUL* 9,1798.
j AT a meeting of the Prefideat and Managers,
IX. a Dividend of Eight Dollars per (hare is d
clared for the last fix months, whiGh will be apg
a propriated agreeable to a refolutioa ol the Stock-
II holders of the izth June, *797.
e WILLIAM oiOVETT, SecVy. .
'» j"'y 9 mtu4w
~ Wants Employment,
:s A OUNG MAN, who has ier>i*d a regn
n lar apprenticelhip to the mercantile busi
ness in this city, wilhes to engage in a Couuting
it house or office, writes a good hand and ua'der
(lands accounts, can be well recommended and
a It-curity given if required. £nquire at the
c office of this Gazette.
.5 i uue 2T 3 awtf
e d j General Poft-OfEce,
£ pROPOSALS for carrying the mails of the
United States on the following routes will
3 be received at this office until the 20th day of
September next inclusive.
e 1. From Pittlburg P. by Cannontbiirg, Wa(h
---r ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills
town to Zanes at the mouth of Licking-creek,
cm the Mufkingum, estimated 140 miles.
Ltave Pittlburg every Friday at % P. M. and
arrive at Zines the next Monday by 8 P. M.
Returning—Leave Zanes every Tuesday at 5
a. m. and arrive at Pittfburg the next Fri lay by
io a . M
2. From Zanes, at the mouth of Licking
Creek on the Mufbiilgum, by Chilicothe and
MalTey's to Miyfville in Kentucky ; estimated
140 miles.
Leave Zanes every Tuesday at j a. m. and
arrive at Miyfville the next Friday by 10 A. M.
Heluniiag-'rLclve Msyfville every Friday by
2 P. m. and arrive at Zanesthc next MoHdayb/
8 P. M.
The carriage of the mails tocommence on the
firft day of November next and continue until
the firft day of Oiftuber 1800. Payments will
I be made quarterly.
t The usual penalties for delays and failures will
be llipulated in the contradl. •
Joseph Habcrjham,
t _ Poji-Majler General.
Phi'.idelphia, July 13, 1798. m&th6w
HEALTH OFFICE. ~
Philadelphia, 1/1 May, 1798.
Extrafl of an ad to alter and amend the Health,
of this Commonwealth, pafled 4UI April
1798.
Sea. 8- A ND ® >e !t f" rt ''- er enailed by the a«-
■tJL thority aforel'aid, That every noufe»
keeper within the city of Philadelphia, the town 4
r' 1 of the Northern Liberties and
and diftriiSl of Southwark, within a mile of the li
mits of the city, taking in boarders arriving by lea
or by laßd, from any foreign portor place, and ha
vingany boardvr inhisor her famHy, whofliall ba
taken lick ol any difsale whatsoever, between the
lirlt day of May and the firft day of November in
any year, wirhin twenty days next after such boar
der (ball come to lodge in his or her house, shall
within 14 hours next after the knowledge of such
fickncfs. make rej-prt at the Health-Office of th«
name ol'fuchfick penon, the time of hit or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being taken lick,
acd ef the name and place of abode of such hotife
kcep.r; where'.pon the Phyficiaa of the Health-
Office (hall forthwith vifu the patiest, and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dis
ease, that measures may be taken to prevent the
fprcading of the infedinn ; and if any houfckeeper
(hs!i nejle Ato give information in the manner and
within the time aforefaid, and (hall l>e thereof con
vi*sed, in any court of criminal jurisdidion %»ithin
this Commouwealth, upon indidmet.t by rerdiA
or confeflion. he or (hall (orfeit and pay a fine
to the ufc of the said hospital, not left) than twenty
doll rs, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
impofcda? the discretion of chc court, at cor ding t<>
the circum(tanc?s of »jreatei' or Ufa aggravation at*
lending each particular cafc.
or J<. r of the Board of Health,
WM. ALLEN, Health Officer,
iawjm ids the Ptic ot Phibiclphm.