#« tie AHD Philadelphia Jkiify •'
IiUMBE) 1 955.]
cy The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subferi
bers reft ding in the city cf Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad- j
diticnal, for enclojing and directing;
and unless fomaperfon in this city will °
become answerable for the fubferip
tion, it must be paid Six Months in
advance.
» ~ . .. —.
For Sale,
PACKET, \
Hulinc» Covphthwut, Mailer,
BUR I Hi:N abnut a,SCO barrels, a go»d ftrorg
acoonimtHlationsfor pafleagers,
Itxaybe sent to sea With small expwee. She is lay
ing at Mifflin's wharf, tor further particular en
quire Of
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
' Smith & Ridgway. 1
»ovemberl6
(r»* Said (hip, if not fold on, or before thp sth
of l>e.:nber.inlL will on that day.in theevening,
be otlcred lor l'ale by public an&ion, at tbe mer
chants'* eolfee haafe. '
Smith & RiJgway,
Isaac Harvty, juf> ;
dec. 3. !
■ 1
Jamaica Rum.
THE CARGO,
Of the ihip GHARV.ES, Captain Salter,
Fr. m the North of Jamaica,
Near 200 hhds. of fine high proof
JAMAICA RUM,
Now Landing a: South «re»t '"harf.
PETER BLIGHT.
r—JU, THI SHir
CHARLES,
Captain Sal***,
Coppered, mount poonders and thirty
6Ve men—returns imn.a liately to Jamaica, for
Passage apply »i above,
dec 17 d?m
For FREIGHT or CHARTER,
to cny fart of EUROPE 9
The Swcdifh Snow
'fiSlk MA R1 Ay
Hans Olot Kock, commander.
A remarkably good vessel, about a»o tons bur
then. \ freight to Cadis, or any part of the
Mediterranean would be preferred. Enquire of the
Captain on b«atd at Vine-Street Wharf
dec 17 5
For Sale.
THR intending 'o
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole 8to«k of
Drugs anil Medicines, Instruments, &».
Tli (hop is elegant, commodious, ant fidici
tntlv known for the extensive huCnefs - one inthe
wbolrfale and retail line ; Ae situation equal to
any in the city, being «t the c«t ncr of Walnut a;id
Seeond ftrcets. The whole, or any par-- of the
Stock, win he fold, at will bell suit the purclafer.
Thu terms may be known, by applying to
JAMKS MOORE, jun.
Wlo has For Sale,
lor the rive.- trade—
ThePEGCY, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r fran-e, and rcmarKslily
ft out, of an easy draught vi water, Tigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for:he lumber buCacfs.
gj- All persons indebted to the [are firm ai
GUJthvwl BalJ-u iu. IV. B GMtttvail, Gotu
liwHi W AA.r<, or the fubfcriSer, are earneAly
requested tw make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, je».
august j S
BOSTON BEEF,
200 Barrel* in Shipping Order.
(OS SALS KV
JOHN SRTRIN,
No. 96, A ortb Fromjlrret.
Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD STOUT VESSEL,
tf-nly Of about 300 Tons burthen.
HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pipes of .Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
iiov 11 nut
FOR WILMINGTON,
N'4) RTH- Carolina,
THI SHIP
jJ&Nr COMMERCE,
jfer'. Captain Wood,
JZCyve WTLLtakeinfrcight on very mn
derate terms, and fail about the
luh inflant. Apply to the Captain on board at
Latimci's wharf, or
Willings"ts' Francis,
% Penn Street.
novemVr i 6 $
AUGUSTUS FRICKK,
Woollen Draper Men's Mercer
No. 7, south ThirdJlrtet,
HAS RECEIVED,
per the last arrival from Europe, a large assort
ment of the falhinnable Goods in his line.
And Lsj conjlantly for sale a general ajpjrt'
mcut of
Frrft rate London luperfine Broad
/ Cloths
Caifimcrcs
Veil Patterns of all k'nds
And every ether article in the gentleman's line
by wholesale an.! rcta2.
December jo dtf
By John Ward Fenno, N°- 119 Cbcfnut Street.
P HIL AD E L P 111 A:
For New-Tork if Bojlon.
x jfcjCr - ncw stoor J
> I>
J JM " Bkjckmtt, majler.
WILL la 1 with allconvcßientfpeed—For freigh l 3
or passage apply to tlie mailer on board, lying at 0
Chefnut-llrect Wfcarf.
WHO HAS FOR SALE, J
On beard said Sloop, c
30 bbls. of cod-oil finefl quality
20 do. of het ring ai d lhad
Few half do. nuckruel
A small quantity of fr.ioaked herring
60 bbls. of w inter pear*
5000 hunches of onions I
4COO lb*. of «xcellcht ckecfe,
Philadelphia, die, n.
_ 1
Ship Broker's Office, >
And CoinmiJJlcn Stor t', J
No. 119, South front Strfft,
Next dosr to the Cuflom House. <
Subferibcr, encouraged oy tie advice ®f
X his friends, rfiers his l'ervice to the public 1
as a Ship and lnfurar.ee Broker. He pvopof
e» to buy and ft'il vcfiels and every thing relat
ing thereto—alUll matter* of veflels and others
in entering and clearing at the Cnftom-Houfc, ]
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling liliiir
ance ai.d all other mercantile sccoun s, and
have on hand the oecelTary Ulan ks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign Ung'iagrs :ranflated, am' in
formation given in general raccantile tters.
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of hufinefs he hopes to be use
ful to thoi who pleafc to favor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERY.
tiovemWer 10 $
For sale by the fubferiber,
At Portsmouth (n.ju) •
THE HULL
NEW SHIP,
go feet keel, 17 l-ibcam, 11 feet hold, j, to
betwfen decks ; about 330 tons ; with mads, spars
and all the carpenter's and smith's work com
pleted ; built of good found seasoned timber aud
plank ; launched in November, 1796, and has been
welt taken care of since that time.—Farther par
ticulars may be known by applying to Meffri.
Wharton & Lewis Philadelphia, or to
THOMAS THOMPSON,
december M .taw.tf
FOR BREMEN,
TIIK BRIG
>%, SPECULA! lON,
Arrnd Wirtino,Master,
MOW laying at Henry Pratt'* vrfrrrf, the firll
j below Race t'.rsi r—lhe is a Bicmen bottom; two
1 hundred and twenty ions burthen ; will fail with
all poilible difratch—For freight or pafTage apply
PRATT & KINTZING,
no. 9J, north IVater-Jiruet.
Who have for sale, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
Til.
Ticklenburghs Patterbornes
Oznabrigs Checks
Htflian> Stripes
Brown rolls Slippers
Coffee bags Camkricks
PLtillaS Twine
Brittmias Glass tun.blcrs
Ertopailles Pott wine
Creas alt Morlaix Window glass
Bteietield liner. Brimstone,&.
Dorolas
.december 13 th.fa.mo.jw
FOR LIVERPOOL,
THE ARM R D SHIP MOLLY,
Burthen 340 Tans;
* flout w< 1:-found veflel. She is now
ready to neeive her Cargo, and will
■ | on evening of the river.
T nrct-tO-rrhJ el h«T Loading being already pro
vided—for Freight for the remainder, or Passage,
apply to
NICK LIN & GRIFFITH.
dec. 13. tnth&s cf.
Nicklin & Griffith,
H.WR FOR SALE,
Sail Cloth by the bale or piece,
(No. 1 fc 8)
One bale of framing-twine
Copper in thefts, from 14 by 48 to 48 by 60
inches
Two tubs raifi.d copper flill bottoms
Quecn>' ware, assorted in crates
London porier in bottles, contained in cases
Empty port-wine bottles
Yellow ochre in calks
Cochineal in ferons
Indigo in do. A calks
35 cafei and trunks of muslins, ginghams, dimi
ties, muflinets and pulticit hai:'.kerchiefs, in
L . small -iflorted packages, calculated for the
t Weft'fodia market
11 trunk" printed callicoes
4 bali-s catfimeres, assorted
T Ho. roarfe woolens
wine
Sheathing paper
Englilh nails in calks, affortsd.
r The Brig
AMAZON,
FOR SALE OR CHARTER.
' Decern! <■ o. m.w.&fa.tf
NOTICE.
ALL persons indebted to the estate of Jamss
Thomtsom, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
1 flrett daceifed. are dtfired to payment to
the fubfvribe»s—and those who have any demands
againfl tljpfjid efta-e,arc requeued to lend iu their
accounts duly att«l!ed for settlement, to
e MARGAXtT CHOMPbON,"> Ailniini 'rafrk.
;OHN THOMPSON, j Acmini irator.
. uov. aj dim
'IHURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER *7> '798-
Massachusetts JJistrut.
BY virtue of aWarrant from the honorable Jehu
Lowell, el«i. luJjje of the Uiftn,-l Court for '
lh< Biftrifi cf Matlacliulrtt., '■ There will VcVx-
Jiofed t« file at A«Aki«, at the M u#ul's O&cc ill
Button, on Turf Say tbe fir# day of January next,
at eleven o'clock : . certain Bex of Watches, fav- ,
ed from the wreck of the Ihip Coh»ima, fttanddd
at Cape Cn4, and lor which ao claimant has ap
peared—" said Box of Watches ve to he fold for
the payment of Freight, Salvage, and other charg
es, and for the benefit of all concerned, —vis.
Tin Box ,Cha
K A rJ 7 ° ol,l dltt **
J 4 Papers Trinken .
SAMUEL BRADFORD, marlhal, ■>
of MalTjchulctts. '
Dated at BoDvn, >
Dec. 6. 1798, j 17 dtl4
REMOVAL.
George Dobson,
INFORMS bit friends and the Public in general
that he has removed from No. .5 .South Third
Street, to No 91.South fide of Markct-ftreet, near
the corner of Third Street, and is now opening
a very extensive affortaient ■ f
DRY GOODS, ,
SUITABLE FDR THE t'RE^ENTSR.4SOW,
WHICH Ur. HAS JUIT HlCf IVID,
Per the ships William Pctiu, and Jane,
from London, u.»d per Chefapeak and rhooias
from Liverpool, and vill b- t#)d low for ct(h,
or approved notes «*t a Ihort d.i»\ v»a,
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
Calhmeres, talhionaMe colours
YorkHiire 7 4 do. *nd do.
Mijted aud plain coatings
Welch flannels
Kcrfcy wavsr, for Spencer. (
Jeoiir.cts and l'ah!>y cord.
Velver* a*:d velvetteens
Velverets and thick f J tt*
7, 8, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and lin»u checks
7 8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
London cl.iutz and chintz firnituree
Furniture cottons
Do. dimities
Purple aud chintz (hawls
Silk do.
Camels hair do
Silk, cotton, and worded hoi»
India and Britith miiflins of erery defcriptioo
Black and white orape
Ttffany and paper fans '
Hats alTorted inlmall csfct
Umbrellas
Poelingt and fattin.
Laces andodgings
Ribbands
Silk Mo les »
Superfine Ftcnch cambrick
Cauibrick muflint
Do threads
Pulicat and Madras Handkerchiefs,
Jtnd an elegant ajforiment oj
Bruffds and Wilton Carpctin (r>
nov.mber 17
"dried peaches, -
-j 111 barrcla
DemTjolms
Claret
Porter, and i- bottles. »
P,.rt Wine J
And Corks in Bales—For f».e by
BENJ. W. MORRIS.
Dec. jo eo6t
R. TAYLOR,
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. 96, NORTH SIXTn-STl.tr,
RESPECTFULLY informs tht Public that
he contini.es to teach Ladirs the Piano
Forte as u^ial.
Nov. 6. tuthsa
Book-KK epirg.
Wante a Place,
IN All ELIGIBLE
ACCOMPTIKG-HOUSE or OFFICE,
A PERSON that Writes well, is aßeady Reck
' * oner, a Sook Kcepet, and can he
well recommended, a line, (or perbnal applica
tion) dircfled t. M. M, No. 71, Nath Sevcnth
ftrect, will be duly attended to
N. B. Books closed, and rn-w Acompts open
ed, Putnerlhip Aceomptsadjufted, crauy bufinels
in the Book-Keeping line, done at the above place,
or abroad of Evenings.
dec 17 5
Gtnteei Boarding iff Lidgirg.
SEPAR*TE and ready fyroifhrd apartments
wiih genteel Boarding Mid Lodgiig for the ac
commooation nl four Gentlemen (wiik their l.adies,
if may be had at No. 163, //#.h Street.
Dec. 1,. tdfit
IHIRTT DOLLARS\
WILL be paid for apprehending and lodg
ing in any goal in the IJnitrd States, the
followinp deserters fritM the Dclawire Sloqpof
War, i'iz.
Thomas Jones, seam.in, formerly reCdotl in
Meade Alley, Somhwark, light hair, trefh c'om
p'exion and blue eyes, about five-feet niii. inch
es high.
Thomas Brown, ordinary seaman, about five
feet three inches high, light hair, grey eyes and
swarthy, about 21 years of-age. alio,
1 Richard Culven, ordinary fearaat, about five
feet fix inches high, aged twenty-three years,
light hair, Mue eyes and swarthy.—Culver and
Rrowniare both natives of Philadelphia, and are
fuppefed to be concealed by some i>f their ac
quaintance in ih'scity.
STEPHEN PEC A TUX,
Commander of the Delaware
Sloop of War.
dee 17 46t
The Subscribers haw for fate,
Malaga Wine, in quarter calks
- Red Portditto, in Pipes, Hhd. and qiartcr calks
Old Madeira ditto, fit for ianiuediate tie
French Brandy
I Spanilb ditto, (not colcrid)
1 Medoc Claret, in C-fes
" Fir • fort Ifinglafa
r I new Calilc, 9 irch.-s
I ditto 1) inches
I new Hawfcr, 7 inches.
Pbiitp.i, QraftOndis Cs.
dec 17 ■ . ' 3 t
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eli?a, from rh« Mediterranean, and
now lauding at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Drimit* u". i
Anaffortnient of valuable DRUGS, ?
II
consisting or
Opi.m, Aloes, Caiitbaridct, Camphirc, Senna, "
Cjemor iictu, &c. Sec.
Essences of Lemon rnd Bergamo!
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles ami flalkt
Olivtt, anchovies andcajers
Juniper ber *
A L S o.—lulian lutc2.ruijj-
Satin* f
Craves k -
UfflkreUu
Remaining on Hand,
St. Sugars,
Claret in cafe*
Oid Madeira Wine of the firft quality.
JAMES Y.\RQ.
November.l $
BOND 6C Brooks, i
Coknkr of MAaicaT and Sixth jikiiti,
HATE RhCEirEl),
by the late arrivals frtjm London, Liver
pool and Hull,
A LAKIS AND CtKKKAk Ot
DIU GOODS,
Which they are now opctnrf f«T fate, at the mo(l r
reduced prices, 'or cn(h r the ufuil credit. c
nov 17 _ $ t
Old Madeira Wine.
ij pipes of ■ Id London particular
MADEIRA WWP,
n flrong iron b U'td lainb'o' calks, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. jo. eodi f
"JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now finding itt SouthJlrcet wharf,
FOR SALE HV
PE TE It BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OfFXRS FOA (AM,
BRANDY, ill and 4rh pioot
Madeira and Port WINES, 3tc. See,
Nov- l. dtf
NOTICE,
PUIUtTANT to a Refols* of the Boat J of
TrulleraaiLWalliiiigtao Academy, jn Som
otfet county, Maryland, authorising WU-Lt M
Polk, efqr. mijars Samuel Wilson, a.'d
William Jox'S, Members of fail Bnard, to
proeute a f rtuMpal tearher for said Academy.—
NOTICE is here iy given, that a gcntlemaft quali
fiad to teach the Greek and Latin Languages, Geo
graphy and the Mathematics, aw 1 such other
branches of Literature as it is .uftomary to teach
in fnch Schools, willmcrt vjiih liberal encourage
ment and it n prclunied wijl be well accommodat
ed in taking charge of this' AcAdemy. The bund
ing is fpacibus and will accomodate at leall tixcy
Students.
Proposals may be addressed to John Dennis, No.
t6x Arch-ttreet, or Willjaus Winder, accountant
in the Navy department, Walnut llreet, Philadel
phia, or to either of the tbree'fentlemen above
-mentioned, near Princeft Anise, Maryland.
Ac<r »7 .5
W~A n T En:
Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly
Lady, iu a tefpeflabie private family, where
there are no children. Enquire, at this office,
dec 4 _ dm
John Dobbin,
BOOT & SHOEMACER.
RESPECTFULLY informs hit Friends and |
the Public in general that he carrieaon his 1
hufmVfs at No 99 South feomt-jfreeti nearly op- j
polite the Mervliants Coffee imyl'e * litre gen
tlemen may lie sUpplied in the neatefl and belt
manner—lie afl'nrcs ;hofe who may pleale to fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion on his lkle (hall he wanting to render
him worthy iif theit- encouragement
N B. Orders receivetl will be at
tended to.
November 5 $
~~notice:
ALL persons who have any demands against
estate of tile late Wilu>m Cur roN, I
deeeafed.and who bavu not-alrcady produced their
their accounts, are rcque!l«d to fend them to the
l'ubi'criber at no 171. north Vccond ftrcct.
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adni'x
Philadelphia, fiov. 29, 1798 niJcth4w
JOHN SHIELDS,
BROKE 11,
Embraces this »p. ortujuty tc frejent bis thanks
to ins fiUovt-citisutu for i/jeir pajl fahors
anil acquaints them that bell returned from
Chefnnt Hill, to his former refidence t the
Houfc As. 11 Cbetnnt Between Front
ami Second-llrret,
WHE.UI'. lie holds himfelf reads' to execute
their commands in evsrv hranch of his
j.-. .JJtoleflionj trultinjr that from a residence in this
city ot ?5 years In- lias it m hi» power to render
( them etTential I'erVKi, alTviniig them that his
corfiinHficn shall be is l*iw as any in I own.
Lottj, Lands, Houl'es, Veflels, Certificates
of every delcription and B!ll» of Exchange,
. bought and ibid, the docket), -carefully exam
j ined and clear title, mad- upon the ihortctt no
tice, by the public's huia'.ile lervant,
. . _ John Shields.
Cy Good negotiable Notes difcaunted
i >t a low premium.
, november 7 J^vitf
FOR S A L E, "
ATan-Vard, with about thirty two acres of
Land, at Rock-Rv.n, on the Head of the
THe water of SulVjuehannah, in Harford county,
Maryland, wtrreoti is funk fevetity-Gve Vau, a'
Sto* e Mill and lan Houfc, with convenience, at
Water and other twc. ffjfLcs for .n eitenfive Yard,
a Dwclliag-Houfe. Kitchen and divers other ufcfui
buildings is er.Atd thereon, some ot the land, in
lots well improved, a good Herring hiihery on the
fliore. Theimp.ovitg 1 own of Havre de Gr.ce,
it about fix miles diilant and reffelo g .Imwh
the R'ver, pall close by tiie preraifcb. A ci.nvc.
ntent situation to get Bark, a flock -of which with
the utenl.ls forTannitk;, aad all the l.idcs :n the
Vat. Hiiv be had with tte Yard, for itrn.. ;.pply
1 to John Wilfoo, near Birford lVwn, or the aub
-1 fcribcr en ,h. f remises.
ISAAC WILSON,
uthmc, 14th j„., v
Xiv.
NOTICE.
TttC COPARTNERSHIP OF *
HUDSON iff YORKEv
is (hi* day dilLdvod by mutual consent. All per
loon indebted to fa id firm are requested to mak«
immediate payment—ami thole who hive a*/ de»
mandi are .Teijuetted to prefect them fur lculemene
to WILLIAM HUIWON, who it duly autl.otif.d
to adjust the lame.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
SAMUEL YORKK.
. WILLIAM HUDSON,
NO. J4» NO»TK raONT-STMIT,
Has for tale on the ul'u;il terKis-, a very
cxtenljve aiTbrtii|tut of
DRY GOODS.
D«c. 10. ? vr.
For sale "~
By the Sub/cribersy
on vr i * Cow si* lii
WAX CANDLES,
OP A •UFI.ftiGK UWUITV,
Either by the finale box ot' *4lbs. or by tik quan
tity.
W Is" Fra/uii. '
nov. 14
7T>O'T'I C E:
ALL Persons indcbtcd.to th« litlale of djC
tor Hugh 1 lodge. ilrecaled, are requalled
to make immediate payment —and those hiving
demands agamft the h'ftate are deltred toautheii*
tieate and pre&nt them to.
MAR I 4 HOD nr., ojminijiratrut.
SAMUEL HOD G DEN, admimjlratur.
nov a - J
Notice is hereby Given,
■' I' 1 HAT application will b; mad« a» h Trea.
1 fury »l 1i« uuif- I Staurn, tor the renewal oC
the following cer-ificat of funded Debt, rtaod
ing in the frame of Ro'vrt \Vii':c worth, of Chcitea,
London, thelaid i'-.'rtifiratey having been forward*
cd by the (hijt Klliie, Matvey, from I.onoon for
captured by the Fruich, and
to be 10-'.
No-11437, 6 Per Cent Stock, datrd Nesr-
York, 18th April, i~96. t«r Dollars 1481,47.
■tio. 8171. .1 Per Cen». dated Ncw-\ ork,
18th April 1796 .'or 1 nHatt 40.^
SAMUEL MILEANK.
novembcr tg riow
Notice is hereby Given,*
That application will be nude at th«
[ Bari ol the United States for the renewal V
-the - following certificates ol Bank (to.k, Handing
Ur ■"JfrTlamr ol HoJgfon Atkinlon of 1 ondou.
which w r.: loft from on hoard the Swallow Pac
-1 ct, eapt Kidd, captured hy the French, and ill
. persons conaer.e.i arr o<fired to take rorice
, No. 2424, issued in lieu of No. 1891,
. 1892, 5662 and 1G640, for 4 shares.
No. 3020, iflued in lieu of 11055, and
11057, for 3 (hares.— -7 (heres.
THOMAS M-EUEN V Co.
Nov. 13 ' d3m
' JAMLd &. RlCHrV*.lsi>Ml IH,"
HAVE this day returned from the try to
their SIOUE, No. 54» South I 7 ionc-ftrcet a
where they h*ve for fa le, »■» uhtal.a large and ga»
noral attoi cmcnt of European and EalVfndi»
DR7 GOODS,
y, most olwSiih have, now arrived an,l are landing.
e from the different vefftfrom Hamburgh, Lon
don. Liverpool and Hull.
I'lwir Cull oilier* by applying will find almofk
every article gem 1 ally Imported, at»l at | o w
price* forcalh or credit.as ifey ca* be ha* else
where.
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
J j to be fold by the cafe oidy.
s ' Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf
Englilh wrought Nails. "
J* Imported in the .Molly and Diana, from
73 1-tVtK POOL.
" 400 Calks of Nails,
ot 6d, gd, iod, ui, and
. V> aod, Hat points fuiuble for the lam hern
market 6d, 81J, tod, i2d, and zed, finedrawn
lharps—»allo 1, 3, 4, «nd (, ilonti—fprigs^*
- iut.ka—fxuppcr nails—fiiea'thmg nuls,
TO* SA L l BY,
l Robert Denifonl junr.
ir »7 Market-It,eet.
* For bale,at the Stores oi'the Sub
' fcribers, on Walnul ftrect Wharf,
19.5 caflc6 of nail.« allotted
10 bales of fail canvass, fVom No. j toS
j3 talks yellow ochre
» 1 j tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 <3oz eack
London particulai ) ~ . .
[i India market J Madeira Wint»
Tenerifle do. in hog(head» and pip
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Cliret bottles
6 calrs of Ginghams, Dimkiei, Muflinen he.
afTorted for the Weft-Indja market
tc 4, >O. and 9 inch eable.aad 10 coils of cordarc
is Writing fiates, ink (land* aad prctTes ■
is 19 purcheose Jamaica rum
:r I bale featning twice
j, 160 bundles ihcaihing paper J
Nic.klin £s* Griffith.
" 'l' ril 7 tuth&f.tf
TO BE SOLD,
9 . PURSUANT to the lart wdi teftamert of
A V.KHAti ta tT»,deceafed,a vajaable
Plantation <Sc l ra<fl of Land,
J coutaiitiiig onr hundre lai d seventy three acre*
the '1 rllauir s iate rdldence, Ctuated in North
dufqHehanna Huadred, Ciocil county, Maryland
- about three mile from the ~de-w.( V r of
hauna, and at a convenient distance from several
of plac« of worihip 0! Friends Lt d Prcibyterear.s.
(, e On the premilss are a Tan yard and cctsvenMD
ees belonging thereto, in good repair ; a dweiimg
a h " u , f '' <ULIe . orchard and oth.r im,rovemtß*.
•f w '' h ' l or 15 lcrr ' uf Sood watejeJ taeaa.w, and
, d( a fuflicient proportion ol TiJuaMe timber.
ul For term, apply to the fir! fcriber, in Wall-Not
in tmgham, 3 miles from the pr^mift's
hc K I' H °MAS Waring, Eaetutor
zc~ mc ; x ' th - A 7 98 §
Z Company of the 'slate of Pc~^U
ith vunia.
he . THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby ooMci
. that an elc ion lor th.Kcu Direilors to serve for
b- °* £ .s e4r : ' 'i. 1 be Wd at til* Company's Office
JAMES S. GOX, Trefident.
dtC *7' dtl 4 JDeleware Is? Schuylkill Canal.
Stockholders are hereby n"»rifie<, that the
A EleiStioo for PreGdcnt and Manag. rt for the
ensuing yiar, will be held at the Company's Offic*.
on the firft le ond dty in January next, at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
Susquehanna Schuylkill Canal.
THE stockholders are hereby notifeJ, that the
Election for Prefidtnt and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will b« held at the Co-npany's Office, on
the flrft second day in January next at ten o'clock
GEO. WORRALL, fec'v
to Delaware & Schuylkill Carat Compa'y.
dec 19 dte
Ibe Subscribers,
Hate received by the Ciothier from Liverpool
A CONSIGNMENT CF T«S CASIS OF
Well AfTorted Buttons,
About 501. flerling eacn Cafe, which they will
dispose of per package, on liberal terms.
Medfard {3* Willis.
No. 78, North Front near Arch-ftrect.
WANTED,
ABOUT fifty Calks ol
Flag Annatto or Rocoa,
*pp,y as above,
dec 11 '
PROPOSA S .
BY HF.N.I IN l) VIES.
Fatpublifhinz by fulfcription,aperiodical work
to be entitled The Philadelphia Magazine
and Rtview ; or, Monthly Rcpofitory of
Information and Amusement.
AFTER the many fruitlefs ».tempts, which
have been.rnade to tflabl.ft a publication
cf this kind in Philadelphia, the proposals mow
submitted, will, perhjps, at firft fight, appear to
be nothing more than folicitii.g d fappointment.
When, hoAcver, we observe an eager fear
afrer know iedge fpreadin:' through all parts of
our countrj, awl when we conlider, that, in
these porfuits, Magazines and Reiicws are of
univj-fally-admitted utility, we are led to be
lieve, tiiat former undertakings in this way have
failed fr.,m £>mt other raufe than the want of
dif-ernmritt or liberality in those, to whom the
Editors looked up for support.
From causes, which are too evident to need
enumerating here, America rs, and long niufl be
beholden in a very confiderahle degree, to the
prefies of Gr..ar Britain. The llteraiure of the
two countiies is, indeed, a fort of commou
stock ; but, for one publication of ours, we re
cwve, at leafl five hundred in return. While
this is.thtLcafe, it is extreme folly in the publish
er of a periodical work, to rejefl, from a fort of
spurious pjtriotil'm, ail information, however
ufeful, and allamufemer.t, l oweverdeligFtfome,
merely because it is not of jnsauve prodinflion.
. OVvious, h -wever, as ti.e iudice of theft re
marks rtiuft appear we htiW very little doubt in
car minds, that an riiiflinate adherence ta a Con
trary notion has been t!ie prit-.cipal cause of the
want of success, experienced by those wTio have
gone before us.
Reason and interest unite in dilating to us a
different plan. The Viifce4lane»us part, and
principal part, therefore, of the Philadelphia '•
Afagazir.e, wiil confiftof choice feleiflions from '
the neweil publications of merit, that shall ap- I
pear in Europe ; but, particular ly from the va- '
rious perio ical works publiihed in Great-Bri
tain, of which we nave uken care to insure the
very earlier fipply. At the fame time, we trust
it ii unnecelTa > bi Ly, that we (hall always re
ceive with pleifure any original productions of
genius, rrrieor prose, of our own couiliryj
and we flatter ourfeives with the hope of being '
often favoured with the agreeable talk of giving
to fdeh produflions merited pr»ifes and cxten- ,
five publicity
In felctfiiig and arranging theft materials, to
suit the various taflei ofour readers, we are fen*
fible now difficidt a talk we have undertaken.
Toplealeall we do pot expefl : _it would he .a
vain preemption. But we are resolved to give
offence to none, so far as confifls with the fupe
riorrefpefl we owe to the sacred cause of reli
gion, morality, and social order. In these ate v
involved tie glery and welfare of our country, j,
and they wdll always be the Polar-liar, that lhall
guide •'■ur libors.
The Mifcel : any will be followed by a month-
If Summary of Aeius and politics, foreign as
well as dorneilic ; under wliich head wilt be
comprised a fuccitnfl account of the Proceedings
of the General and State Legijiatur es, and the
title?, at lead, os-all the law-, ihey (hall enaifl.
The next part of our undertaking, is a Rr
•vieiu, of the p>inciual works of note publirtied A
in Gjeat-Britain. For this we mull necefTarily
have rccourfc to the Review* of that country.
Though i; will be impoflible for us to furnilh as
complete an analysis is that f om which we shall
take ourinate"rialj,-wt-fhall not fail to gfve luch A
an account of every publication reviewed in that
country, as will c nvey to our readers informa
tion fifficient tncnible them to avail themselves
at a very eirly flage, of every valuable perform
ance that (hail appear. The advantages arising ft
from foch information are evident. For want c.
of it our profeflional men and men of taste are J'
always kept a year or two in the rear of those ai
of Great-Britain. We do not hear of a work tf
till a long tirpe after it is pub ilhed, and many ai
very valuable oues we never hear of at all. All p
the various injuries and privations we fuffer p
from this source will, we flatter onrfelves, be 0
entirely done away by z steady adherence to our
plan.
To that of foreign, will be added a Ilnriezu of "
J)ome/!ic Publications ; and here, we mull con.
fefs, tnat we feel fame difitdenc#, beraufe the A
execution of the task mull depend, in a great
measure, upon the abilities of ourfetvea Hj *■
ever, with a firm rcfolution tob« guided by de
cency, candour and truth, and to take genius
and vii tue by the hand, whenever, and in what
ever garb, we mSy si td tl,em ; with no wilh to "
wound tlie feelings of a fiv but the wicked, and •
with the mod finctie drlire of feeing our coun
•rymen Ihine in orery department of literature,
we doubt not, that ws (hill be able to acquit -
ourselves t > the fatisfaislioa of all those who
have the good-nature fairly to appreciate our
motives, and the justice to make allowance for
human imperfeilions,
I he wo.k will close with a monthly record
of Marriages, Births, Deaths, Promotions, and
other casual incident*.
Ai to whatc nccrns the polities of this coun
try or of Eor»pr, at this momentous period, we -
lhall always view with jea'oufy every measure
H»flhe French Government, and it's everaftive
emifTariei; and il in this rtl'peifl time men con _
fider us as partial or pre jtitfred, we (hall fubmic A
lo.their cenlure. For fd full is onr convitfifon
that the war, which now defolarcs E«i ope, and Q f
>nenare> thiscountiy, is .1 war < f ambition and hi
plunder, ou the part of Frai.ce, that nothing w
tan induce js toceneral our frnr»:iueiiiy, or to" da
withh Id the small aflillance that we ran con- o'<
»r':bu»e t" uppofc them. For this reason we in- 'Si
trnd to devote a page or two of every number 'ft
:o historical ficil, ar.<cos:es, aiid remarks oa
I 'he Foli ic» of France, fiom th< age «f Louis
iht tour tenth to thcpctl'ent more alarming e
porbi F«>r more tJ'an a century patt has that
refttefsaaJ ambitious p*op ebeen like a volejno
e I in the centre of Europe, dtfluroing the furround
e In* States by its intrigues, and once in every
' eight or r.-n years overwhelming its mod fertile
" countries with devadatiou and carnage.
Indeed it is more than eighteen hundred years
fmce the jnit Koman Orator* thought il his
duty to warn his countrymen against that cos
e dufl and those principles, for which the present
i- race of Gauls are njuftly to be dreaded as their
n favave anceflors ; " Gallis fidem von habendum,
' K bominibus levibust perfidis, et in ipfos Deos im
mnrtalts impiis."
By the proper management of this repic our
U countrymen wi lhe able to fee the real chara&er ot
the nation, which the/formerly considered as their
friends, but now more justly eTecrate as their m>ft
darg-rou»enemies; ard they willbe better prepar
>l ed to appreciate any" overtures, that may be made
hereafter, for the restoration of j.caee a»d amity,
Io the execution of this part of our design, par
ticularlv " we look with confidence tor the lupport
and afliftance ot all persons who shall consider our
motive- as laudable, and therefore wi(b to eonri
bute to the success of our deugn ;«r of all who
think, with us, that the press has been toe long an
engine of ieftru&ion, and that it ought, at length
to be rendered a nv an of pnfcrvatiof, and an in
strument of prott&ion."
• Cictto.
" Literature, well or ill conduced, is the great
" engine by which. I am fully persuaded, all ci
" vilifed States mull ultimately be supported or
■* overthrown." Purp,tti tf Liieraturs%
I The CONDITIONS.
r This work will be puhlihed in Monthly Numbers;
and if a moderate encouragement is giv<n the
firft number will appear ot thefirft day ot Feb
ru-ry next,
1 Each numbsr will contain at lead (Fifty pages of
i letter press, in o&avo-, under a blue cover. It
» will be printed on a fair and good paper ; and,
3 as soon as our lift of Subscribers will warrant
the expence, every number will be cmbellifhed
with an elegant engraving,
f The price to the Subleribcru will be twenty-five
1 cents for each number, to be paid on delivery at
f some one of the places fpecifiea be lew, where
the fulifcription has beco received ; and as soon
as there are lufficient to make a handsome vo
p lume, they will be bound together, for such lub
fcribers as choole it, they paying the additional
expence.
Subfcrip'ionj will be received by Benjamin Dsvies
at No. 6if, High ftrcet, -«he r e thefavours of all 6or
refpondents of which (he portage has been paid, will
• he received, ar.d duly attended to, as well as bj all the
i principal B -ok.fellers in lhe city ;by George Hill,
Book feller in Baltimore; and by Drum
mond, teller in New-York.
4"- ta.iww
THE FORMS,
AS prescribed by the Commffia-ers of Penn
fylvartia, for the return of DWELLING
HOUSES, LANDS snd SLAVES, may be
had at
Joseph is" Jamex Critcisharik's,
No. 87, Market Street.
P'f- £jt
To be Sold,
The time of a flout heilthy Negro Lad, aged
about 17 years, and bound to serve until it ;
be is honed, underftan a the nfual bufißefs of a
family, and has bee* accudomed to wait on
table—Apply to
benjamin r. Morgan,
No. 41, Arch ftrcet.
ctacember 19 jgt
" FLOURY FOR SJLK
DELIVERABLE at N-w-Caftle or Port
Pen»i, bv
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH A SON
_ dfc '9 d 4 w ,
NOT I C E7~ r.
THE Public are cautioned not to triift any of
the people belonging to thfe Swedifl, Snow Maria,
on my account.
Hans Olof Keck, master.
dec 19 j
A Jling of Small Keys. ~
Was loft ycfterday afternoon— any pcrf«n deliver
ing them at rhi. office w : ll be rewarded.
dfc » 4t_
14 Pipes Madeira Wine, ~~
FOR SALE bY
Crooke Stevenson, 5
No 4, South Water-street. c
dec u ' 5 c
Day PubliJhed, 1
And for faleat the Office of the Editor, No. 1
119 Che-Giut-ftrcet, 1
(Price 1-Bth of a Dollar,)
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Towr of
BOSTON, in commemoration of the anni- c
verfary of American Independence. J
By Jon a a
The inroads upon our public Hbcrty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we have fultamed,
cjlJ for—Justice.- That Kepwation and thu \
j if' miy yet be obuine d> by Union, Spirit,
and Firmness But to divide and conquer wis
the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Eden,
and to disunite ind enslave hath been the princi
prefent " VoUries from thlt period to the -
Observations on the Bostoi Port-Bill, & c p 58
by the late J. %u,ncy, jun '
auguft 11 /
This Day is Published, 1
AKOrOR SALI BT J.VSNNO, I IQ.CHESNUT-S* l RUT P i
AN ADDRESS ol
7<7 the People of Maryland, ai
P ° N , "' e ™J in < P ro gress and prefest state of *;
F W : th s flce,ch ° { th = infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
fn (W r rcfle^ < >* s on the late proceedings ,
m Congress ; written the laO of April in the pre f
tativ * M rof the Houre °f Reprefen- .
—— 5 june it
Pkinting WORK, l
Of Everj Kind, p
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST -
NOTICE,
At the Office of the Gazette of the 1
WtttTiD States, ' ]
— dtf. b
Dancing School. 3
W" L il" m 'DOVO»LL prtfents hi, '
v V peafyl compliments to the public • -at, c
•he Überty of informing them, that the'reoueft
of mai.y of his former employer-, he
btti-CHpo,., at hi<l Bj|lt RoqM) . t Ten
ween Q'.efmit anJWahiut Oreets, on the fuft Man' Si
o docUn the mormng-and for Gentlemen, T, rc
nßv - ,e._
13 On Saturday next, the 29th a- 7
e o'clock in the evening, at ilie- Mer
chants Coffee House will be fold for aa
approved indorsed note at three months,
y Ti'F- hrigsixtiyt
" iSWp' SAL LY,
■ WITH her rppßrtenificei ns fee came rrom iea,
an inventory of which may be seen it the audion
cers, the is i6oton< Mgiih-r ir.ealurement, built of
white oak in the ftatc o[ Ncw-Jerfey, and now
' r lies at Mr. Eyres wharf in Kcnfington.
*' FOOTMAN Iff Co. audioneers.
dec 24
ir United States, ~
>t Penpfylvania DUlridh J
ir vjo I'ICE i.< hereby given that in pursuance of a
ft XN writ 10 me directed, from the Honorable
r " Richahd Pirf Judge of the Dii>ri3
' e Court of the United States in and for the Penn
r> fylvania il'AriA. will bq exposed to public sale
r " at the houfe'of Jatnes Aih, esq. La Third flreet,
rt on Saturday the »£th instant, at 1} o'clock at
! r r.ooa,
'~ o 2 Hogsheads and
n 2 Barrels of Spirits.
h The fame having been libelled against, prnfecuted
*- and condemned a* so feited in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marlhal.
?' Marshals Office, Pec. 15th, 1798.
* The rwners of the ship New Jersey from
Cant«n expeft in a few days part of the
Cargo of that vessel in town,
CONSISTING OF
A general aflbrtracnt of Silks & Sattins,
' Nankeens, White and Yellow,
, Cassia
China Ware affurted
Bohea ~
It f? u r ch "?. TEAS,
v * ° n T. in f > Of excellent quality, and
j Hyforf, and" [lO 1 " £ e ami Smuil package?.
Imperial
e Fer ttrm* *t Sale—apply at the Stores of
t NickKn & G,ifih,
t /rc . ibald M'Call,
" Wm Read & Cb.
George Plumflcd,
j dec 16 §
Malaga Wine,
, In quarter Calks—for fafe by
" Philips, Cramond Isf Co.
1 < ' tc «
! ~ WILL BE SOLD, 1
At Public Vrndie, on the \th day of January
nee/, in the evening,
Two trads or pieces of Land ,
Situate in th. slate of Tennefee, ohc of them
lying and being in the county of Sum
' tier, rn the Head waters of Fiimis creek, eontain
' ing one thoufanc feyen hundred and fourteer 1
icres, and the other fltuate in Hawkins cowity, in 1
the fame flat-, ecntaining fire thouknd acres. c
Conditions of hie will be cash.to fee paid on the <■
execution oftheJeed. Information, relative ts t
the titles. siaybeAadon application to Tolhua B.
~' corner of Hl 'gh and Siith streets, 3
Philadelphia. C
Shannon poik, auctioneers.
decembcr 26 '
For Sale, *
At lie hte dwelling hou/e of Htxir Hill, p
'/quire,
On Wednesday morning, c
J_l £V January,) V 1
At too clock—a quantity of eTegaufTSH va- 1
luable t
.Household Furniture,
Confining !-.f
I.arge and (mail looking-glaffe*
Carpets atd carpeting n
Chairs, fo>has and tables, of fupcrior work- L
manfhip and in the newest ftijf 1
Gerondolis, lull res ft
A large afortroent of plate & plated ware b
a number »f Taluable paintings
BedsajJti bidding
China and glass wars "
Stationary,marble Oabs, and a variety «f other c
articles
FOOTMAN Co. t<
d,ceaio !l_if O
£T All perftns iudebted to tlie imitate
of Joseph Aithony, fen. deceased, are re
quelled ta mala immediate parent: —And all *
those who|haveany demand, against fa,d eflate, b
?K e r u l' 0 ' rodu , Ce , them le g J "r attested to tl
the fubfmbers for fettlfment,
JOSIAS HEWES, ") "
JOHN MORTON, t}
JOSE Hi ANTHONY, 5 fa
Decrmlier i 6. th
T.° be Let, for one or more years at
Ik Pea», nf.au Third-strket
A new Brick Coach-House, ai
Will contain '.wo carriages and a chair, with a m
complete Stable f-r four horfcs—app v to h(
PETER BLIGHT, fr
j Dock fl-eet. so
■ *6 di ot is
Ready Furnijhed Apartments. £
TP LET, KEACY FURXIiHED,
A the ON T Pa f r '° Ur V a fOUr chambers, with
of Arch ftrett; at th = n
any N ao B Dr 7h?n? e fU r rn!tUrC aU n4!t Precludes de
cont3g,onfrom thehte P"- w:
decembcr is. la
— eod 31
NOTICE. CQ
S^l/¥ HA * MT - info ™ s th = O-ntle- Tr
me n Snbfaibcrs, that the if JtT H a vr- r
t « f or Gentlemen and Traveller® ar
ChamwTfo an add "'°n of twelve Bed th
■ovember 6 th
thaw r
NOTICE "*
P U rf S SS Y ,0 C ,he 3Bd te ° 3mem ®
t
[ lign of the Bird in in tt • ta
fownfnin Ni„„ ' ,n Upper Merion ,
m 'P' Montgomery c unty th
A valuable Grift Mill, et
_ and
1 wenty-five acres of Land, G
»S»ri2 , / ~d ,o ' vnfti P-«'"•«»» it!
remainder w?ocnl'; i d n sr4 grt4 H Cf P "' :<, - : c
willLe made known W s -• CC
Dee» ACaEL COAT?, Exec,-,:,. |
•"th.-afajt tl
efira
■■■——
%ln dstisctte*
aa
®' PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER tj.
mi- THE-FOLLOWING,
: °'" Are the Observations made l>y Mr. Gordon,
1W on the proposition to instruct ibe Committee
of Managers of the Impeachment of IVil
liam Bioun'., to request of the Senate, that
- the attendance of said Blount might be com
pelled.
,f a Mr. Gordon fiid, Gentienieu fees-ntx!
ble to have taken up an idea that the object of
iit the resolution was to declare to the Senate
ln " what mode ought to be purfuecf by them
ale with rcfpect to tiie prosecution which is be
at' fore them, and not whether this house
would apply to the Senate to take further
(laps for the appearance of Mr. Blount. He
believed there was a gre<rt difference between
>e( j the two objedts ; for he did not think, that
by the latter, the houie proposed to deter
mine what belongs to the constitutional pow
er of the Senate.
111 what. Situation is this bulincl's before
the Senate ? The people of the United States
have charged Mr. Blount with high crimes
and mifekmeanors against the Un ited States.
They have requested that ftcps might be tak
en to bring him before the Senate. The Se-
LS ' nate have complied with this request, and
have informed this houle, that he has not
appeared.. What is to be the next ftcp ?
not this house as pr'ofecutor to Come
forward and requcft that further steps may be
taken to bring this man before them that he
-c ma,y be to eiTe<sl ? What is the
practice at common law, when a process lias
faijetl to produce its objeifl ? When a Ca
pias has been filed out to apprehend a criminal
and it ha.s sot been lerved, is rtot the next :
step to be taken by the prosecutor? There !
is therefore, said he ; a peculiar propriety in ;
the House going on to request that a personal !
~ attendance my be compelled. This;* inltead
of dictating to the Senate, would B« proceed- '
ing in the usual and ordinary courle of thing?.
The queilion, Mr. G. said, appeared' to be
whether or not this is a criminal prosecution.
~~ If "it be a criminal prosecution, all adroit that i
a personal appearance of the accufedis necef- 1
y fary at his trial. But it is denied that it is :
a criminal prosecution, and it is therefore
contended that a different ceurfe may be had.
n What, said he, is a criminalprr ferution ?
* It is charge by the government against a citi-
P for viulatipg a law or laws made for fe
ll curing the-peace, welfare, or interest of the
community, and profecitted before a tribunal i
e competent to decide upon the fame. Here,
3 then is a charge by the United States againil
' a citizen, this charge CO..fills of fundryhigh '
crimes and misdemeanors, of offences against
the laws of the United States, dirtily tend- ;
ing to involve their peace, interest and wel- '
fare. This offence is prosecuted before a tri
bunal competent to make the enquiry and
, pronounce a judgment thereon. The pro-
fecution has, therefore, every reciuifite of a
criminal process.
1 his definition of a criminal process, Mr. •
Or -feai, "guMul ; u is 1
there not, then, a charge of a criminal na
tu^ e ," is stated to be for high crimes and -
mnoemeanors. Is it not brought before a
competent tribunal ? It certainly is. Can
not the Senate proceed to judgment upon it :
they are bound by the Constitution foto do.
1 here is therefore, every requisite which con
lhtutes a criminal prosecution. Will itftill 1
be said that this is a civil and not a criminal
process. Jt f c , it must be maintained that
it u the judgment and net the offence, which ?
cor.ftitutes a criminal prosecution, Admit
the idea that the criminal code is entirely al- [
tered ; that tor all offences against the laws '
ot the united States, no other judgment d
Jail be Teadenw xhan .that of difqualification 11
ot officg ; suppose that by the common law, P
a judgment never operated against a person, S
but only against his estate ; it would follow, u
that neither by the laws of the United States 81
nor at common law, could there be any such c
thing as criminal jurifprudente. Will it be 0
laid that the Umted States could not lb frame fl
their laws as to exclude any punishment of n
the person ; and yet if this ihould take place, 11
according to the ideas of Gentlemen, ou,
cnminal law would be no more. But, said d '
/c ' ' S °, ot thc Qualification to hold a '
an office under the United States, or a re- fe
rnova l from one, a punishment ? If a man "
hold an office during good behaviour, it is a
f-~ ° ' a 11 when a man cc
forfeits a freehold, and * dive (led of it, he ,:f
uiftot punatbed ? Certainly not. Another
X 'on has been made and almost every ot- so
jection ls refelved into this, viz. that the ob
propeled apphcation involves inconvenience »*»i
and a procraflmation of the trial. The :{ en- be
tleman from \ .rgmia has said that it might
y r lftratt the impeacfuttb.,t, and pre- h;
vent a judgment from beit.g obtained. This of
dec a mio h fajd> muU madc „
without conhderation, because if theprefent fe
a«s are not Efficient for the purpose, it hi
cotld uot be said that more efficient provifiors p<
could not be made This remark he illuf- fc
trated by a reference to the law establishing re
e judiciary. Mr.G. denied that there is any ar
analogy between this «afe and a suit in rem in tl
ttte civil aw , and that the argiunent used by ec
. e gentleman from Connecticut refpefting di
he admission of bail ln certain cases, instead o(
' n - avor ot > wou 'J efxrfate a- ta
m I 7n n ' L 0a 7 h ' €h geutlernaji had if
talncd v l fame gentleman had main- pi
V I thC "****"> ot the United m
othlr f A n I - C ° ntradiftinftio,!from evcrv la
-atmn T taWS ' re Pai<led
the Wh",f eKI -i frQm all Public Rations, as m
ed zrJ P u,llft,,r,€rrt that couMbe inflidt- fn
no't r? - ytt , 4. by a procedure n,
immal 7i,. s s on . (1 -argument, Mr. la
Seas A Pr °^ UCCS 4 afrembhge of k
hhll Another pectlearan hid said thJI the v.
of an indj&nwnt was to rescue the w
ccutmumty the pcrr.icie, {i iff-flsofa nt
S&'eflvTvt • An 3, feii M -' G " not bl
th hkei >' t0 fce niuch greater from 6:
tt? re-efeaioß of a man tf nfamcus cha. sc- tl
- ter to an important office nr4
ment than conid pofflbly ariS the l*enw
_ breach of the pe acc , a c ' fe *W a f lm
- tery only. 01 aiiault and bat.
Mr. G. fhted another r n „r
would flow from deviating SjT* h "
mon law proceeding, the co m .
perlons to a ppe , r by *cfcd
in a court of record made k ' confef
as conclusive upon the nrln • f att °rne» ; 3
2 perfoitally b> . if,^
■ . ma >" bL ' aa appearance by atto^ r ? ore the*
peacbinent, the plea
attorney will be midc by the
"pal ™ if made by ° n hi ' P^
ed thSn,ndividu al Su PP° fe
nate for high treason , that J n the Se "
pear by attorney and is a ?j *1 to an.
; tc that " a '7 £d tedof™
m client to be guilty h n con fcffes hij
llc indidment for the f ame Zr " ot > ol > an
five evidence and whetherTh ' Conclu
not upon the produfiinn accuf " e d would
™ a record,
at I ty. If he knew any thine- Jf not £ uil *
£ ! t,on . of a PI« or daft °Pf ra
coi d> the party could n > Jrt re.
Plea, so that the lilc'r»f • C ° ntradift th '« ,
re might poffiblybe i n the nn ' nn °, Cent PWfan
T, " uu '^
k * cases have happed, the. perf™' lrd fu<:h
C ! 1 u- S adet l uate mode of redrtfs *2g risv «l
ld this redrels be had in a cafe litl u Ut CouW
* one, whetr any attorney ati
authorivy, may be the
ie a man Siall Ik; f or evcr , \.T *htth
3e and incapable of holdim.- • 1 mnu »
ie under the United State- ure °® ct
- 'Hat could be ,£££ „?££«»»»
* O. laid lie on to ™;n«. '
3 ! I* of ,4» in which an ap
« attorney might be attended i 7
- but thole he had
" would be fufficiem. Another rl*r PP
d ' hlm ' The constitution fpeaS
, j f the H?*™ be awarded on aS*
! a " lm peachment, has
■ powers of the court, but ha, not rfefin,J
e ' other j ud gfnentmay be awarded u h
! : : hl ' f};ort one therefpecifie'd. °
•t j A cafe may be s uppo sed j, which tI K Se
" " a ? determil »e that either a rrv
* al from office, or a will be
< f ere a Hgpent for the offences which.
J t T; P / ; l , hfy m « ht be "^pir.inn,
* that a judgment ofce H fure would be an ade
- quate puniihment; but under such circu^r
- j fiances, surely the presence of the pcrfon
- , would be indifpenfablt.
I He hoped, therefore, the resolution would
) • be agree.', to, and if it should be found e
ventuajly necefTary, a law would be paged to
1 make the necefTary provisions.
. i
THK FOLIOWINC
I PETITION
Is now handing about for the signatures of
1 the citizens.
To the Szjutb and Hovszif Rtnssrv.
VAtitrms vf tbe Commencealib of /W
ST/harua, :n General Assembly met,
: he Representation and Petition of the Sub
fenbers, members of a Society for the sup.
preflion of Vice and Immorality, and also
of other citizens-os Philadelphia, and its
vicinity,
Respucrrutir Shewed,
1 HAT your petitioners observe with
sincere pleasure, that their ftllow citizens
are uiing various means to preferveour city
from recurrence of those pellifential visi
tations, which for more than five years past,
have produced amofiglt us scenes of the
deepest c 3 fftre fs and anxiety, and which
thiraten with extinftion the ooulencr and
prosperity of the metropolis of the United
States. We desire to express in the mod
unequivocal manner our approbation of thffe
aims and endeavours, our mt>ft cordial coj
currence in ihem, and our r adinels to eo«
operate in rendering them eff-&i*e ; being
fully persuaded that to negleft the meant
naturally calculated to prevent the deftriic
tior, of life and evidence r f diftnfs; is ei
ther an instance of criminal fupincnefs, or of
daring preemption. But whil* we possess
and avow these fent/menfs we thi k it per
fedlly confifteat to declare, that «ur views
are directed to a higher power than thai
which is human, to crown with success the
contemplated exertions for the preservation
-of our city ; and that unless we secure tbe
favour and blessing of the Supreme Pifpo
fer of all events, our desires to obtain this
object will be vain, and our efforts unavail
ing. We believe, and » ear« conllrafued
before the Legislature of the state to pre
fefs the belief—that the Most Hieh GOD
has " a controversy" with the inhabitants
of our land and city ; and that till they
" consider their w«ys," ar.d 'i turn their
felves from their trai fgreffion," we fliill
have reason to fear " that iniquity will
prove their mint" we (hail have leafon to
fear that we may be left to infatuation
remifT. ess, in regard to the measures which
are bed calculated, in the natural < rd«r of
things, to prevent the rtturn cf the dread
ed disease; or that, if these meafurei are
devffed and adopted, " He who ruleth
over afi" mav (as without a miracle he cer*
tainly can) prevent their success ; or that,
if fhey are adually fuccefsful. he mijrem
ploy some other, and perhaps mure awfi <
means, cf chadiCng the violators of hit
laws.
Deeply and solemnly jmprtfTcd with these
i momentous truths, your petitioners are dc
firous, with all becoming refpeft, molt ear
nellly to solicit the attention of their lcgif
iators and rulers, to the moial, as well a>
kQ the njlurut caufc* of the calamities which
| we have expericuced; and to reqoeft that,
: while the latter are c»n(idcred. tire fbrmtT
may npt be forgotten; but that by a f'lita
ble and connefted regard to both, the four
daiiori <tf a rational expeilation may be laid*
that, under the smiles of heaven, *e reafiraln er.ioy a t <la eof health and :
urofperity- F t,r be V from us to petition 1
or desire th»t the Le(f flature (houtd, tn the j
I degree, interfere with the rights of -
roiifcience, so properly secured to every in
dividu.l by th* conflitutions of Pcnnfylua
nia aod r>f the United States : But, withia
eonfti'Utioual limits and jnft bounds of leg
fflative autliority, there are certain great
and leading principles of moral and religi
ous obligation, which the very existence of
conscience, or a moral faculty in the human
mind, must fuppofr, and a regard to which,
not only the peace, order and happinef*—
but the very existence of civil society, in- ]
difperifably requires. The'enforcement of '
a lacred regard to ihefe principles, both by
the influence of their own eximpl-, and by i
ena'fting and executing suitable laws for the
j:qrpo/e, vour petitioners conceive to be ndt
merely within !he province cflegidators and 1
but amo"g their mod impor
tant and indifptnfable duties. With this
' impr-ffion we do eameltly intreat, that the
Legislature of Pcnnfylvania would fpeedi'y
' adopt the mod efficient measures for sup
pressing all those jils of atrocious wicked
ntfs, which, have too long abounded in the ,
midll of us; and especially of floppii.g, as ,
far as pnffible, the fourcen of that profane ,
ness debauchery, difTolutenefs of manners,
and criminal di'ffipatiou, which both trom
( their natural tendency, and by provoking
I tf e righteous jadgmeins of a Holy GOD, i
threaten US wi'Ji dellrufiion.
Your petitioners are ef -ecially dtfirous
in this add-refs i©f calling the attention of
the Legiflatura, seas nab'y and ferioudy, to
' the palling of an act more effe£lu?lly and
generally to provide for the suppression of
vice and immorality ; a draft of which was'
. made at their former sessions, and which,
after being read and printed, was left, ?s !
your petitioners have been informed, on the
files of the House rf Renrefentativej. And
your petitioners are highly folici'ous, that
jn this ad the molt effetfive pro ifion may
be made to tnfure lt« execution, by those
■whose duty it fliall be to enforce it ; because
the inexecution of laws of his is !
among the weigh'ieft grievances which y -ur ;
petitioners have to deplore ; and, as they j
believe, is among the mod cryng fins with,
which our city and land are chargeable.
VERGENNES, December 12.
Lyon has conceived an idea that the
federal constitution would free him from ar- I
r»ft, while on his way to Congress. Ac
cordingly, he goes to the further part of
his prilon, advances towards the door, calls
on people to that he is on his way to
Congress, and when he has proceeded to
the door exclaims vociftroufly that he is ar
retted ! Some of his adherents, in the firft
part of the time of his iraprifonment, ap
-1 peared very much irritated}; but now they
fay, Lyon chose to go to goal ; for, when
his time of confinement is exp'red, he in
tends to sue the United States for falfe im.
prifonwe-itt, and will recover very heavy da
mages ! !
, J j'
fust Pubiijhei
BY THOMAS DOBSON. !
' At the Stor.e-honfe, n>) 41,1'oitth Second-street,
Pint\ncLrotA .
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
.A._ : ;
DICTIONARY
op.-r. A-'
A R.T S AND S C I E N-CE'S,
and
MISCbJ I.ANEOgS I.ITHRATO:er,
On a plan entirely nek-.
B V WHICH
THE DIFFERENT SCIFN AND ARTS
Are dnjefW into the Form of DiUiuft
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS
COMPREHENDING \
THE Hitlory, Theory, »nd Practice, of ea»h,
a»cording to the btaff <hrroverit« and i nprove
ments: anH full exi lanati'n» given •( the Variout
De'ncbtd P<irti if Kntrif'e!whether relating to
natural and artificial V jects or to matter, ecclefi
aflical. civil, military, commercial &c Inclsd
ijig elucidnti- n of the mod important topic* rela
tive to religion, mora «, manners, and the econo
my of lile: together w j-.h a description of all the
eoui>trie«, cities, principal mounta njt, leas, rivers
&r. throughout the world; a general hi/lory, -in -
tint and mo/-ri, of the differ -nt empires, king
doms and ftatc.; and an acrount of th« lives of [ ;
the mast eminent . erfons in ev ry nation, Irow ]
the ear'ieft ages down to the present times. Com
piled from the writings of the heft authors, in fe
I veral language*; the ino.l approved diiilionari'., 1
as well ot general fci.-ncc as of particular branch- i
e*; the tranfa&ions, journahs, and memoirs of t
learned fori ti.s; the MS. leeitires of eminent pro- 1
felfor. on different ciences ; and a varie'y of ori
gma! materiiU, furnillted by an exter.live curre- 1
fpondence. 1
Ihe work is now completed in eighteen large 1
quarto volumes, illuflratcd with five hundred and ]
forty-two copperplate.
Ihe few copies which remain on hand are of- .
fered for sale at '
Idollars for the 18 volumes in hoards c
161 dollars neatly botjnd in flieep leather 1
180 dollars handfotr.-fy hound in Calf \
# 407 dollars in RaSa or Morocco.
r. D O~BS ON, I
HAS JUST OPEN F. DA c
SUBSCRIPTION, 1
For Publifbing a Supplement to the Wofk (
The ohjed of which i-s to correal fnch mis-state- ,
mer»s as have heen found in the Work, and togive
fin account of the moil important dilcoveries and 1
iri.provementl which have heen made for the last 1
te>s years.
It is rrpe&ed this fur>plem*nt will eonfift of 1
three volume*, oa fnch paper and type as the En- (
cyclopedia, at Six Dollars prr yoTilnr , in,hoards .
Sic Dollars of which to be paid ou jubferihing,
dec 15 lawtw c
No. 128, t
The foutfj-eafl corner of Market ,ind Foulh r
Jlrcets, t
J A C O B CO X, f
TT AS ja't recrired by the Ute arrivals from 1
-a J- Europe, a large, general and elegant at t
rorinieTit'if the mod j
Bafhionable Merchandize, ,c
f'rfthe gentlemen's line)—'i'hewhole of wl.uh '
win be Cifpofed of. M-holefale at.d retail, at re- t
cured .prices tor cash.
dcc * '9 iawtf I
I
-%\yz <2>asette. J
PHILADELPHIA,
j t THURSDAY KVFNING, DECEMBER tj.
PRICES OF STOCKS. '
10 PHILADELPHIA, DtCFVBE* 12. I
I. Six Per Cent. I j/5
Three Per Cent. xc/ j
j. Deferred 6 Per Cent. .* j
B \NK UniWd Urates, at percent.
Penofykania, jj
' Worth America, 50 ditto
>y Infuran«e comp N. A (hares cj ditto
K Pentilylvacia. (hsrc*, 4' ditto
,t COURSE OF EXCHANGE
d On London, a- 30 days 6 0
r _ ——— at 60 ctayg c.
"■ at 90 days j
AmUcrdam, 60 days, per guilder, 3: cents
p. To the Regimental Surgeon.
IN your second publication in the Gazette
lc of the United Stat.s, last Saturd ly, you Sffert !
33 that u thtfirst cases" of tbt late fever
e traced to the ship Deborah, which arrived at
! > Philadelphia on the iSth July, oil board of
m which Co vera} persons died during her passage
g from J remie to this port, and one of her 1
; > crew at the Marine Hofpitul soon after htr '
arrivnl." i
us That the fever wa; in various parts of
of Philadelphia before th;arrival of the Deborah,
to appears from the letter of the Academy cf
id | Medicine, to Governor Mifflin, published a
of few days lince. In that letter the names and
as places of abode of persons arc given,
h, who had thedifeafe before the arrival of the '
?S : Deborah.
Ie You fay " while the Deborah was pel'-1
id forming quarantine, Alexander Philips ac
at knowledged to Mr. Purdon and Mr. T-nvne, 1
'T t ' iat he brought up a sick man from onboard
fe a vessel layfng- at the fort." « Mr. I Milnov 1
fe informed Mr. Purdon, that Philips told him
is! | he brought a man from the Deborah the last
ur : night of her jjvarantine, who was taken sick
:y ]on the ad, and died on the 6th- August." !
th Without dwelling upon the folly evinced
by Philips, in pubJHhing a Ifory which he
well knew would occasion his being heavily
fined, I will just mention that Mr. Milnor
; denies haying ever made the assertion above
related on his authority.
ir * | It was fully ascertained by the Board of
c - Health, that the man by name Ralflon, who
, is said to have worked on board the Deborah,
"s and died very yellow on the fifth day from
to th - attack, had been taking Mercury Yor lip
to wards of five weeks before, and when verv
feeble had gone to work, but was obliged to
rft leave off; and that the caule of his fever
p- was the labor being difproportioned to his
■y strength, and a violent cold taken by chop
"n P'»g wood during a rain, after lie came
n- home.
n- The carpenter attended by Dr. Currie at
a- A. Thompson's, in Water, below Walnut
ftreet, declared to Mr. T. that he had not
beeijr more than five minutes on the gunnel
* .* Ut«M. Ihip AM b"Cn
as full of contagion as a Have ship, be could
! not have frarcely taken a difeal'e from this
short exposure in the open air.
" Alexander Morrifon, who is said to have
( died m the fame houle, on the 2Sth July,
j after having appeared like one intoxicated
I for two days," was declared by his pliylicran
to the coroner, to have died of the " cramp
in his flomach." The-.fatVwns, that the man
had been actually stupid with liquor during j
the above period, as Mr. Thompson afierts. !
That he. did not die of the fever, will appear
from the coroner's inqueif.
You fay that "David Sparks affirms that
Philips got liquor from him before the D.-b- i
S orah came up, and told biin it was to take ' ,
| with him, as he was going to bring up one I ,
"• of his old Ipdgers from the Deborah."
ms Mr. Sparks positively denies ever having |
to sa :d that Philips declared his intentions of
si. bringing up -a person from the ibi!>. And ,
d that Philips did not go on board, appears ]
la " from the declaration of Mrs. Doyle, his |
neighbour, who fajrs. that Philips asked her, ,
>rs when he was going down, whether (lie would ,
pot fend some liquor to a friend on board ; ,
B- to which flie replied, that flic would not ,
°' r | and when Philips returned, lie told her that
™ he had been refilled permission to go on board;
■ e f° careful was the captain to avoid all coni
munication with the city while his fliip was
h- in quarantine. The contradiction between
°f the dates, proves the inaccuracy of your
statement. Philips pure haled the liquor to '
e '_ take with fern on the loth July—and you *
fay he went down and brought up the lick '
»e man the day before tlie expiration of the 1
id Deborah's quarantine, which happened on '
j. the 18th July !! It is, moreover, improba- p
ble that Philips was on .board, because the '
captain of the Deborah, Mr. Edward Yard, f
having lieen in the Weft-India trade several r
years from this port, knows that a heavy '■
penalty attends the granting pcrmiflion to '
auy one to rome on board during quarantine;
but I may further mention, that the widow 1
of A. Philips, is willing to be qualified that
her husband never brought ifp any sick ner
: fan from the I Deborah. Abraham Small.
wh ° w ' nt with Philips down to the Debofah,
d will alio prove that Ue never went on board
ft that vessel. t
You fay that," A Tho mp (%n and John r
=t Doyle, neighbors to Philips, affi-.t that he c
' sailor frwi the Deborah to his f
house. B<:th theft- men declare, they never c
..a, ' the faft from their own knowledge, r
" Ihe above fefts tend strongly to disprove t
the aiiertion, that Philips brought up three t
h irom the Deborah. Moreover, none of t
the persons said to have taken the disease c
from going on board the Deborah, commit- c
n n 'catea it to those in the fame house with
f- them ;_ 3 . circumJlaiKe which is deciflvs in t
its authority, that no human contagion was c
derived from that by "those who are J
h (uopofed fiiil to have taien ill by beinz on r
t . bc.rd of her. ' b J
Finally, admitting the fa«s\ that Philips t
Jrcught up three men, or twenty rath, all e
I ill of veUaw £rvfr,~the flrigth cf th?
1 ffv*r cannot lie ascribed, by any reasonable
Iperfon, to the cof.ta»Son corrTnur.icat-d by
them, when it isconfidered that the most in
j difj-.utabk evidence has been off-red to the
i Lepift?ture, that strengty marktdr
cf the disease occurred in xmrtM'S parts of the
tity \xf--re fie Dthcab arrived even in tbe
Wbvmk.
DEI'ECTOR.
Dr. James Mease.
' sis, 1
| On an inqucft taken on t!>e body of Alex
ander Morrifon on the of Julv r798.
' in Wate-r near Walnut-flreet, it was the o- '
pinion of the jurors from the evidence, also '
corroborated by a phylician whose name or 1
person I do not recolltft, that he came to ;
his death hy too free a use of fprrituous li- i
ouors and the heat of the weather, which
produced the cramp that occafinnrd his d»ath.
JOHN LEACPCK.
MR. fENNO,
In your paper of last Saturday it is alTerted
„ upon my authority, that the late Mr.Phi!!'"! '
t brought up a fickman from th: Deborah, I
( never didafTertthe fact from my own know- 1
t ledge, nor ever mentioned it as a common j
f report. On the contrary', Mr. Phillips toK
me that he had not been admitted on board, '
r and that it was well I did not fend feme art -
r cles to a friend in the ftiip by him, for that ie..-
son. I am, Sir,
Your's,
JOHN DOYLE.
p December 24.
i
1 MR. FENNO
IN your paper of last Saturday I observe
, the following para raph in a piece refpe€ling
the origin of the late Fever, viz. ' Mr. I. j
_ Milnor informvd Mr. Purdon that Phillips
told h-iin that he told him he brought a man
from the Deborah the last night of her qua
-1 rantine, who was taken sick on the 2d and :
died »n the sth of i\yguft."
, Thi< statement is not accurate.—ln a
| eoriveifation with Mr. Purdon at the Spread i
Eagle, 00 the L*ne»fter Road, onthefub
jett of the Fever, during its ptcvalence, I
{ mentioned to him that I utiderftood it could
: be proved from the confefEon of Phillips
, himfelf, that he brought up a man from the
,■ Deborah, but I did uot assert the fad upon
; the authority of Phillips, forlneverex
changed a word with hira in my life ; I did
f' riot even know him—what 1 told Mr. Pur
i don was founded upon a conversation with
, Mr. R. Jackson, one of the Infpedtors of
1" the Customs, a (hort time before, wh® men
- 'tioned the above in the Surveyor's Office.
.• Upon since applying to Mr. Jackson upon
3 this subject he states that Thomas Town,
1- Millwright, of the North.rn Liberties told
s him that Phillips had declared to him that
- he brought up three men from the Deborah
; previous to her arrivi/ at the Fort.
I do not wish to insinuate that Mr. Pur
t don intentionally mifrcprefented my infor
mation ; I have no doubt that he related the
t fa£t agreeable to the impression made upoa
l his mind, hut the above "Is the exa£t ttate
i ment I made to him, in the course of a ve
-1 ry {hort conversion, while my horse and
s chair were getting ready.
I am, Sir, your*,
- I. MILNOR.
, December 24, 1798.
1
1 MR. TEN NO,
? OBSERVING in your paper oflaft Sfc
-1 twrday the following afTertion, " Atcliefpn
j and John Doyle, neighbours to
• Alexander Phillips also afTrt. that he
r j brought a ftck faitcr from the to
! his lioule }" —Juftce te myfflf obliges me
f to diclare that I never afTert> d the fart,
- j from my own knowledge, smd if I <*er did
; i mention the circumstance, it was merely as
: j common report. And as for A,cxandcr
Morrifon who died suddenly, he was only
r j two days in my hor.fe—he came sum New
' j York in a (hip called the Hero ; atd as for
: the carpenter, he came in the (hip John, be
-5 ' longing to Mr. John Donaldfon, fur weeks
' before the Deborah arrived, and he never
; was on board the Deborah more than five
' mi' utes, and that was before her tiatchcj
; were broken open, ond then he only flood I
upon her gunwale.
ATCHESON THOMPSON.
December 24.
MR. EENNO,
hmuft b g you t6 correft a mistake com
milted in y ur paper of Saturday, said to
be an afTertion o r mine, as I never fiid that 1
Mr. Phillips told me he was going to bring <
up one of his lodgers ; but all th vt I re. '•
member that pasTed between Mr. Phili ps '
and me was on the loth day of July, when 1
Mr. Philips got some liquors from me, an<} (
said he was going d..wr. to tLe ship Debo- '
rah, that there were some of his lodgers on '
board. I a(ked Mr- Phillips if le thought <
he would he allowed to go on board, he (
said that if he was not, he w. uld try to ftnd '
the liquors te the poor fellows 1
DAVID SPARKS. <
December 24. j 1
Mr. Fenno, 1
The very judicious observations of a wri- 0
tet in your paper on the tenor of the Aurc- 1
ra advertisements, accounts also for an ocid
circuniftance which occurred a few davs '
i'.nce. Upon an order for the publication n
of a Bankrupt's notice, application was 3
made to the court, to point out some niedi- '*
um of publication. " Extremely well
thought of," said his honor; "it is highly c
proper thut the court fiiouiu direct in fucb a 7
cafe ; suppose we fay Cl&ypoole's, Bradford's "
cr—~or—.or. ■ The Aurora."
As his honor the chief pfti:e is a man,
the meanest of whose artions is ever diftin- P
guiftcri by propriety, there can be no ''
doubt, that the rene&ions of your corref- c
pnndfi)t occurred to him; anditmufton
aW hands be allowed " highly proper" that
those who find thcmfclves already bankmst
ed by jacibiaifm, can no where else so ?.p- c
I
• proprlstely fisjuif, is in a Gaz-tt: 1 . the r.rin
■ c of which ter.d to bankmpt the vhole
r community.
C*
Sir,
Ycur humble fenrant.
- -
> >
The f. How who was arretted in the Nor
thern Liberties for traducing the President,
owed his arrelt to some of the memben of
that spirited an i patriotic body of men the
Pollers', or firft I'roop of Volunteer C»f
*l>y,—and they (lioulil have credit for it.
. We hear, a negress, servant to the Hon
; orable Hiomat M'Rcan, D iflcr us Laws,
) was within some weeks lad pad, fafely de
livered of a son and heir—who with the
> j mother is likely to do well, And further
. we leart>, that the little infan', having been
i chriltened by the forname of Buonaparte, is
. become a greaj favourite,
A good Democrat in SoOthwark tately
christened hia child Buonaparte. There
1 w»» pusch, and there was wine, and there
q was plumb-pudding, and every hing that's
I gdod, offered up in ahundance to t'-e crowd
- j. of neighbours nflembUd at the solemnity of
1 j Little Boney Part'i fpri'kling. Soon eate
I the news that Heaven hadat Ipngth frowned
, on the bold murderrr, and thit his fortune
- and cf course his fame weie on the wane.
1 he fickle parent Sflually revcried the dee;!,
and thus saved his infant from lugging tbio'
life a load of mockery and ridicule.
m2nmuttfratiott£«
. The 'cSarafter of the Jem is daily, rif
r in# in dimity and great ness, His lalt ad- |
| dress to Cohgrefs is fall cf wifllotn and vir I
• tiie. It diffiovcrs a fixed ctet.rminatiori to
I maintain the Ivonor ct his country, and op
_i pofos calm dignity to the emp,ty threats, and
j | vile accusations of the Frexich regents.—
What a contrnft docs the conduit cf the
American and French Executives exhibit to
I j the r,'orld—"lie hiftorun will speak Of the
mddnefi', the virtue, and the forbearance of
. the one ; and of the avarice, the rapacity,
j and the mcannvfr of the other. But let ft
uot be !irppnol'ed that the foftlan^uage\vhich
the American government so long employed
proceeded from pirirHaiiimity or fear. No. -
It was the confequenceof the di ft rafted ftatg
of t'.ie public mind, of the violent oppofitton
to ftvong measures in the House 6f Reprel'ei,-
tatives, of a virtuous resolution in the Chief
Magistrate to exhaust all thefources of con
ciliation before an appeal should be made to
the sword. The French rulers have, at
length, violated the. laftprinciples of decen
cy, and the America'n government no longer
uses the language of affeftion and friendlhip.
Let that language be discarded until the mi!-
erable people of France are relieved from the
tyranny under vhich they and are
governed by honest men. The only objert
of the direftory is to deceive and deftrov.
They may vary their means, buttheirend is
always the fame.
The President gives it as his solemn opin
ion that vigorous preparations for war are
indifpenlible; and this, opinion he in
a great mcafnre, on the perfidy which
France has displayed. in her condurt towards
the nations of Europe. At the fame tim<"
he fays that the sacred rights of embatTy foal]
be and that a diljjofTtioh 011 the
part of France to make wtrtration for past
injuries, and todojuftiee in future will re
• move every obfhele to a friendly 1 iptercourfc
1 between the tfJW coiintrie s.
>) It is our wi(h tn'do jultioe to others, bm
it is citr fixed determination to have jtiftice
1 done io.oarfclves.r-Aj.td, as th;* President
observes, we wIH hot tely on profefiions that
> are contradicted by a&ip'ns. What are faf
' ficicnt evidences ct a difoofition to do juf
-1 ticev? (ball determine "for OarfeJ'/es, abd
until we fee those evidence*, we (hail- "127
' aside negotiation for the sword.
UNITED STATE* VS. RANDOLPH.
This cause h?s at length heen fully argued
1 on both fides, to the joy of all true believ
res in the pure principle* of Jaccbinifm.
' Ju-gment is (fill suspended. Tf any thing
could render thecbararter of checx-frcret*.
ry more transparent. than has been tfferted
by his own extraordinary, delicate, and
sublime narrative ; it (ui'ely received the
most brilliant p' lifh from the subtle and re
fined arguments of 1 is liberal council, not-
Withftandmg the frequent and irritating in
terruptions by that creature of power, the
Attorney for the United States, in con'e
quenceof the talents of the witty Mr. W.
an 1 the found logic of theferiotis General,*
aided by the conclusive leftimony of the
narrative alone, the canfe of Jacobinism ft'll
triurrphs The Attorney, it is true, pro
duced volumes of d euments which were filled
vouchers ; but it was evident from the fir ft
blush of them that they were fabricated by
oldl Ti:n, and his coadjutors in political i i
quitv, Oliver and Co. Tlie word that
could be madeofihe whole affair was, that
Mr. R.. had injured Mr. S 1 tirt, by an at i
tempt to serve his old friend Morris. Mr.
j R. is known to all to be a good lawyer, and
j a cunning one too ; but he has unfortunate
ly (for lawyers at least ) opened the eyes cf '
oilier people, by (hewing them an easier way
to pay debts than the olj fafhigned one of
pone duflum, and a I am rather in the voca
tive myfelf, faith ! I (hall l .fe not amo -
ment to pay off all my old fcor«s. I have
an urcle in London too ; and as Mr. W.
lias maintained, it is only nccefTary to prove
he is able, and then my bill duly drawn and '
endorsed. By Heavens! thi* is too good C
■ I shall soon be tble 19 look my creditors ;
in the face, and keep my carriage, See See. 1
Huzza for Jacobimfm ! huzza for the rx
fecretary ! Bat hold ! I have heard it whif
pcred that Capt. Hans Hifrl is flilj living—*
that he is jealous of his honor, and that l.e
Certainly will return to America, ard deny
having received any money even for medals "
QUIZ ! QUIZ ! QUIZ !
* Gen. M. was uncommonly grave on thit
occa/ion. '
w
. . . COuvGXLSS.
e _ ' ' t»
Yellerday, in the House ot" R-pr. feitta<
u'vesoC t,he United States, the fpeakor l.uVl
before tlie houfn a letter frortt the SeclrtatY
of the Navy, communicating a report of fhtf
vtflels of war employed in, and preparing sot"
the leFVrce of the United States,'mhde in
• pursuance of a refoHitirn of this hoftl'e. of'
1 the I Bih in!t. This comnJitnicatfon was re*
c ferrtd to rhe Committee on' tlie fubjeft of
the Navy, and ordered to be printed.
Mr. Crifwold laid otf the table, the sol*
lowi g refoltition ; ▼!* t—
'* " Resolved,
'• «• That a committee he appoui'ed to eii«
quire into the expediency of amending thtf
lC aft, entituled ■' An Aft in addition to thtf
:1 aft, entiiulcd An Aft for the pbiiiHinient
, n of certain crimes againll the United Statet,''
ls so far as to exfe d the penalties, if need be»
to all peifons citizens ot the United States,
who (hall usurp the Executive authority of
} this government, by commencing or carry
c ing on correfpordence with the government
, e of any foreign Prince or State, relating to
s controverts or difpiues which do or Ihall
I ex ill between such Prince or State and ih t
United-States"
Thehoufe then took tip, in a committee
"" of the whole, and went thro the bill for
e elbblilliinir a uniform fyllem of Bankruptcy
after which Mr. Otis propoftd to amend
J the tenth fcftion, by offering a fubllitute ;
J upon which the Committee role, without ta«
king a qtiettion.
Mr. Wain pn-fented n »>eiitiot) fVom the
mtrchants and traders of PinTadtlphia, pray
i- g hat the aft prohibiting inters uric with
France may be so itiodißed,' as ti<#' to pre
j_ vent their taking means to tecovor deots due
r in, France ai d her colonies, is— This peti
:o tion was referred to the committee to
j. w&« committed that part of the Pr fident'si
d speech which relates to exte. di'g and invi
_ gorating (U r of dtfeO.ce,
V* In Comnii tee of the whole, the house
agreed to the bill rtfpefting balances due
. it . frtim certain iltues—which was ordered to
3 f be engrofled for a third reading,
y, _ ' ''e bill /or tnkijfip an er.umer»tion of thtf
it inhabitants «F the U. S. afier making a
h few amendments, Was alio agreed (o, and
■d to be engrofiVd for a third reading*
3* Adjourned.
* =
" WILL BE SOLD,
:f At 10 o'clock, on Saturday the 29th inlf.'
I- )jy public auftion, upon the lot adjoining
:o the City tavern, in Second flreet,
It \ Number of window eafis, (buffers,
doors, &c. &e. being part of the niateri Is
, r of the buildings lately taken down. Perfor.J d;-
firous of viewing them are requvfted to apply to
P Samuel Rohh f >n, Upon the prcmifcj, any time
i- previous to the sale.
«5 CONNELLY isf Co.
K Aucl.'oieerst
ft dec - *1 rfifat
r Philadelphia Population Company.
»- THE share-holders are hereby"
re t otificd, that an election frr Pretident, Manner.
n and o'her officers for the ensuing jear. will he
, held at the Company's office no. north Fourth
tlreet on Wedncfday the 9th of January rex-, at
J!> I» a clock.
f. , Marahc, Sec'ry.
II 2 7- dtm
Bank of Peisnfylvania,
t XT Lecemker 2 7 :b, 1798.
VTO.lCEisherchy given to the S:eclihold<r- of
the B*nk of Ptmfylvatiia, that an KleAiott
it 4 -Jf nfteeo DIRECTORS, f, rve f rr one y , ar
;e will he held at the Bank, „n Mon.Uy the fourth of
lt next, at is o'clock.
It JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
J Extras from tie fi-vemb Senior, of the AS of
J ■ Incorporation.
V" r> " o r " C ''> " K " c tIIJQ fourteen of the
> by the Stockholder*, .nnd aflually
moffic .exclufiv. of the FrwHaent. ftallbe elh-ibli
T o'k ' f ,c , eedi W y ;ir ; h;,t the Diredlor
wKo Ih jl! be l J te.tdrnt at tl,e time of an eledicn,
j may always be re-deiUd '
r dt 4 F . ,
1. ———- - —_ —«-> • - ■
? 0n THURSD aT, the id Jaunary,
i" at 6 o c] )f k 111 the
d At Cekbon & Yop.kf-s Auftion-Room,
d Ho .t?, S Tilth I'ront-ftreet,
e WILL RE SOI.D,
. A "ell-chcfen and feleft Library of
Medical Books, &c.
t. together With sundry Su.gicaJ ruments.
e rhL ' of the late Dffritnr Savre
BENSON 6c YORKE.
■ - «!«
c ft or it e.
1 A I.Lperfons having demands again/} I n ft n e
ind Bacon, formerly of this Cit'y,(Shopkeepcrs »
3' 're rtquefteJ to deliver their accounts properly
I ilteftcd, to either Of the luhfcribers, on or be
ore the fifth day of January next, as a dividend
Mil then he made of al! the assigned to
hem According to an agreement made at
t he meeting of the creditors, the accounts are
t ;o he rendered without inrertft as they original.
\y stood before the alTigtrrhefit.
h,l thedivirtid witl be rrtadc upon'the accounts
I v;hi; h nrt prod-jcti! hy the time herein mention
cd, snA ihnt may tyeofTcred a tcrwards inu/l o£
" coui ft 1
J \COH BiKER ") jjr
RoHKKT RAT.VEY £ of
RICA R. SMITH 5 hjlonc & Baton
<ltc - 7 «d tJ ;
NOTICE.
ON or abrut the 13th lilt November, there was
lauded from on board j fionf) or fchooi c
-011 Pars Hue: wharf, a on ntity ot Plafter-Varu!
• he owner » 46rij{ to y?y « i:arf lr:e . an( i t=ke it
' away oth.rwife it will h« I.Jd at vtndue on («4
wliaif for tlie fame on Saturday, January ? i 702
Harvey & uavi's
<irf - 11 . nmjrs'
t . —i
T E a.
A Few Cnrfla of
I itfp 5 1» IA i fr. X,
For fn!e, Bir-rea!b:tabl< ;crms, at Ni>. 41, StrutS
ietond-flreet.
d-c aa - ia*tifImported
in The last arrivals,
Superfine; fine and common cloths
Swatidowns
Baizes
Velvetts
Velver<,tts
Printed calieoe»
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk
BrulleU and Persia caipetts
Buttons
For fdle, for eajb or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. 143 Arch llrcet.
dov. i 6 §tjani
FOR SALE,
at no 9, South Watek-Street.
liifh Linens, 7-8 and 4-4, well
aflorced, in whele and half boxes
Checks, in dijto
DroghedaV., and Brown 7-8 beetled Linent
Irilh Hackled Flax
Seott> Thr.ad
Men and Women* Combs
Ruftia Duck, of an excellent quality, and
100 hhds. AuxCayes Mo!affe3.
By ISAAC HaRFET, junr.
lit' , mo. 17 »Uw
Lank of North Ameriea.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
ENttrm for twelve Uirt&ors, for the ensuing
yar f will h»i I eld at the Bawk on Monday, the
14th of January next, at ten o'clock
RICHARD WHLLS, CaflTr.
V-c. 8, T7Qg. _ <! tE L
AN Y French Ladies and Gentle
men \w.tMfg
a VeflVl at New-Vpjrk, by applying to Meflis
G ihn & Mumfotd in that City.
Dec. 18.
Ces Dames mi IVieflieurs Francris, qui vrulent
pass r en France, 1 euvrnt £tre accomocec, fur un
lat in'en t part Mijt Jc N. York, en s'addreffant ckez
M. iVLGahn and Mumford, dan cute ville.
D c. 18. 3'
NOTICE.
ALL Persons indebted to ifee Eftite of W 9*
liam Ueauchamp, lately dereaied, are de
fireil to n ake imreedia'e payment and those who
have anv clairrn aj;ainit fiid Ellate to produce
their accounts properly attested to
SamL Price, executor.
ttnv to dffii
FOR SALE,
By the Subfcribcr,
Belfaft Canvals, No. i, to 7,
On moderate terms frvr Cash or a ihort credit
James Lyle,
South Seventh Jireet, near Cbejhut.
nov j ft 4
FOR SALE,
To be F.XCHANGFL) for property within thirty
(pi es of the c ty, or to let on ground-rent torcver
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M . Bidtile. n«. 147, Chcfnut
ftreet.
nov li i
FOR S^I.E,
By the Subfcr'ibers
200 Bolts Ruilia Duck,
50 pipe* London patticular bill JV.adeiraWine
I paii nine pound Cannon
A few Bales Madras Handkerchief*
Fine Flota Indigo
»3 Barrel* Beef.
Willing! & Francis.
Penn-ftrret, j
November lit ) $
ALL PERSONS having any legal demand* a
y:i nit the estate of tViiliam Pali™, dece fed,
late ofthrciry of Philadelphia, Tavern keener, are
rwjueflcd to lurnilh thtir accounts properly au
thenticated and ill ptrfons indebted to said estate
are '.-quell; d to make payment to the fubfenber in
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWOR.TH Adminr.
Oflobrr 31 ft. 1798
Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a good Brt aft of Milk,
Enquire at No. j8 South Front street,
D£c. 10.
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
DI SER I'EL) latt night, a second time, from
11 e Marine Camp, David Lujxr, a fife",—
He ha 1 vih- n he went away, a plain I luc}ai ktt
vcff.i ■ ijhr btuenveralls, a round hat.which hadbetn
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped ofl
in hi' fit It dcftrtiou, and a pair of new flioe«. he it
.1 Carpenter by trade, ha? grey eyes, far.dy hair
fdlow c'implrxion and a nitch in his upper lip
His hack is I* 1 " ' ore from a flogging he got a few
days a/o He may b» difcovercd by his fifeing,
at lie plays extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
OSoher IJ. Marine Corps.
10R SALE,
Fifty Acres of Good Land\
Lying in Gloucester County,
State of heir.Jersey,
r T I WENT Y-FOUR acres ot which ate
1 \Vtaodland, the rell, Meadow. Thi»
hn.l lies about halt' a rnilc from Timber-Creek,
and two miles from the river Delaware, the
county road pafling through it, and the great
road only two miles distant. For termsj apply
to, PATUICK DOGHEKTY,
Sign if the Rainhtnu, in Sbippen,
between Second and Tbird-fireetj.
dec 4 fnith&fiw
ALI. PERSONS *
Indebted to tht Estate «f Mr. John F>NNo,late
of Philadelphia, deceased.arc defiredto make pay
men;, and those having any djmands, to prcfciit
them far fettl.u- int, to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adin'r.
or
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
to the administration.
no». 3o
NOTICE.
ALL pcrfons indebted to the Eftale of Sam-
UfL Wallis, elq. of Murcey townlhip,
in rhc couiur of Lycomint:, lately ileteafed, ars
hereby required to come forwaid immediately
and pay their refpeifiive dehn.—And all persons
having legal demands against the Eflate, are
requeued to produce their account*, properly
authenticated, for ftttlement.
JOHN WALLIS, -)
WILLIAM ELLIS, f Adminiftra-
DANIEL SMITH, T tori.
JOHN ADLUM, J
c!ecembtr 13 staw 4w
THK CARGO,
Of j itF. Ship INDIA,
C/pt.iin Asumkao, from BATAVIA,
Con/iiting <f
JAVA COFFEE,
Of the fir ft Quality—to be Sold, by
MORDECAI LfiWIS.
dec I.
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
•j 4, four pound Cannon, c.iffcrent lengtiis»
c Csrronades. „
JOHN NIXON & CO.
£)eceirber I. uIJL
Lancaster County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street,
dee T ' f.—
-~T^m^NUrJFcK£LT
No. 155, Market-Street.
First quality London Particular /
Madeira, Porr, Sherry and Lisbon )
C'ogniac Brandy, lit to 4th proof.
Sprits.
By the Pipe, Hhd, Qnarter-caflc or Oalkm.
dec 3 inw&liw ,
Now Landing,
From on board the fliip John Bulkeley, and
for sale at th* stores of Jefle & Robert
Wain,
350,0 c o weight of Java Coffee,
of the ftrft quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
in canniftcre.
Nov. 1 \
BALLASI. j
A QUANTITY to be disposed of, if applied for |
immediately, on Vcwrd the flhip Louifs, lying
Ma. HUMPHStY's 4hip Vard.
nove-nher 1 o. ?
Imported,
In the Ships Aftive and Liberty,
from HJitBUIGB.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Hessian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, isfc.
For Sale by t
GEORGE fEKNOCK,
no. 103 Market-ilreet.
nov 10 §
SHULMAKER BERKLTI',
HAYF REMOVED THEIR
INSURANCE OFFICE
to No. 9, south Front ftlxet.
Their room at the Coffee-houfe will eontthue to
be attended from II till t o'clock tn the day, and
from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOB SHOEMAKER,
Has also removed his Oountirg koufc to th*
fame place, where he hat for falc a few | i[x* choice
London Particular Madeira Wire ; French and
spani<h Brandy; Claret in calks and caf.-s. of fu
periof quality, and a few Packages Glass and
leathcr, which will be fold very low to clolc the '
isles.
Philadelphia, I» mo. li, 1798. $
THE PARTNERSHIP OP
Alexr. J. Miller, SsfCo.
BEING diHolVed on the firft inHant, by the
death of James Davis, all persons indebted
to the fame are requested to fettle with tkefub
fcriber, and those to whom tli-y are indebted are
requested to call on him for payment.
ALEXR. J. MILLER,
N*. 64, South Front Jlrett.
Who has on hand,
t* sa sisrots.o or on tow TOtit,
By the Package or Picte.
Fine plain and tamboured Muslin*
Guzr.cnaa*
Baftas
Coflae*
Rabobgungies
India Callicoes
Bonk Muslins
Coloured ditto
Real & Mock Madra* & pullicat hkf».
Brown Silefla*
Tickings, (3c. &c.
JUST ARRIVED,
AN ASSORTMENT OF
Irish Linens & Ruflia Sheetings.
nnv »8
A Young Man,
WHO write* a good lund, understands
accounts andean be w«H recommended,
wants a Situation as Clerk or Afliftant in a
W holt sale Store, or Coiiutifig-hojjfe. Appli
cation to be made at this Office.
nov 14 (J
To the Creditors of the Subscribers.
PLEASE TO IAKE NOTICE, that we haveap.
plied to the judges ol the Court of Common
Pleat, for the benefit ol an aft of alterably, pafTt d the
fourth d»y of April lalt; and they have appointed
THURSDAY the *7th inft. to hear ut and cor Cre
ditors, in the cwv of Philadelphia at f«ch place
where t«e-Couri maybe held, ana where you may
attend it you please.
I PATRICK CAVANAUGH,
JAMES DOUGHERTY,
PETER G. ROSE,
John greene,
LEWIS D GRAFF,
James
RICHARD STOKES
<kc ' B- T — 3 !iw aw
to $ rr
TN one of the streets between Union and Saf
r 'he out fide Case
of an buglifh Gold Watch, chafed ou thebaek
with a fhicM Any person who miy find the
fame, and will brjng to this office, will receive
Four Dollar* re wa ,d, and the thanks of the
owner,
dec. 7.
All Persons "~
Indebted to the Estate cf HENRY HILL, deeeafed
are requested to make payment to the fubfenber :
and those having any demands on the fame to pro
duct their acccuntt for futtleoicnt.
GIDEON H. WEI.I.S,
„. *J9> Market street
P.nladelplua, dec. 4, 1798 cots
Impdii t e d
In the last arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and 4msler</ariit
AT '""«*"»» A LIBtRAt
' {KIIIIT, BY
PRATT ss" KINTZING,
N0.95, North Water llrtit.
215 bales & boxes 1 icklenburghs,
hempen linens and osnabrige from lfs to
3/ P cr c " rr
70 do. bleached and brown heifians
40 do. brown rolls suitable tor cof
fee bagi
20 do. itrong d-o. do. for cotton do.
30 chests platilla. 1 Jo. sealing-wax
3 do. dowlas 3 packages oil-cloth
30 do. crea>* la Morlirix 4 do. fail twine
II do. eftopailles- I do. watches
IS do. Bicktichl linen 14 pipes I*°" Wine
yo do. patterbornes 9 l eifes claret
4j do Erittanias 13° J" fi,,c I<MI S corked
I do. Hoilind canvas? clsret
I do. Rullia do. 16 JO huftflsfine lalt
3 do. Russia fhcctings salks of roll brim llone
I do. ravens duck 100 calks of naval Uores.
1 do.Russia drilUns 50 prime mahogany
r do. brown Itollaud 4 bhds. coff.:e mills
v do. Silcfia rouans 0 bundles German lleel
I ds.Wahrendrop lmen 10 chelb ol slates and
1 do. Caraudoles pencils
X do. Flemish linens A package of Ikates
I do. cambriefcs and A do. woolen caps, &c.
Uwns 4 chclls of Nurenberg
I do diaper toys
It do. flripes 40 of yellow ochre
18 do. cheeks 3 hhds. Glut.
1 do. iiamoij 5 barrel* of I.entil.es
I do. Arabia flripe $ clielts of prime red
I da. b ui. ting fur color- crust Holland cheefs
X packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs ot pearl barley
kerchiefs ~ 60 boxes of capers
I do. Turkey yarn 400 Ides of upper and
6 bales ur.ipty bags foal leather
I chest hair ribband 300 boxes window glass
3 boxes ta|*>, assorted 800 Demijohns
» do bobbin, assorted jo boxes gl&fs tumblers
I box threads 3c tapes assorted
I do. fi«e blue liftados » hiids. pumice stone
5 chclls men's flippers 1 box of mill laws
3 do bed ticks I calk of cutlery
% calls hogVbrifUes A quantitv of stone jugs
6 che(l« wriing paper and pickling pots
4 do. quills A fsw ships anchors, &c.
novemlaer It tu&fol
John Miller, junr.
Hit returned to the Gtiy,
AKD H REMOVING FROM NO. 8, CMKSNUT,
To the five Story Building, in Dock
near TfMrd-ftreet.
Where ke lias for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTING or
Coflats ,
Dallas
Marcioodie»
Humkumc
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, ls}c. Uc.
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS,
CotiJlJlitig of Woolens only,
AMONO S T THEM tit,
Cloths
Coatings
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, &c.
ALSO,
100 Hhffo. of Olrf Rivm,
Of a fine flavor, 3d if} 4th proof.
nnv jo { •
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp JVeJi ScbuyHill, viz.
Odlobcr 39.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, j
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
complexion, born in Holland, no Trade, speak»
broken English and very talkative, has a dimple
iu liis rhin.
N&vcmbtr 6. John Murphy, ay years of;
a 8 c > J feet 7 i inches in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born iu Ireland, city of
Dub in, br trade* Hosier.
Jjcob I4en, 34 years of age, j feet 6 inches
bigh, grey eyc6, sandy hair, frefh complexion,
born in Ntw-England, slate of Connecticut, a
repeated (kferter, by trade a Blacksmith.
November 7. William Collins, 3eyeais?of
a ge»_ S feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frelh com
plexion, greyeyei, born in Ireland?, county ol
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
forne timt about Philadelphia, he is very fond
to hear hifofelf Sing.
AH the above deurters are very much addiil
ed to liquor, and will rake other people's pro
perty if .in their power, are artificially marked
on had on, when they went away,
thftir regimental Mothing. Whofbever appre
hends fakl deserters, (hall receive forty dollars
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all realba
able expences, by applying to me as above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Irjfantrj commanding.
nnv 10
Charles Campbell,
W AT C H-M A K E R.
HAS removed to the Shop formerly occupied
by Mr. "John IVood, No. <<, corner of
Froßt and Chefnut-ftreeti; where he will thank
tul y recewe and execute orders with neatncl.
and dispatch
HE HAS CONSTANTLY ON HAND,
A Neat and .Large Assortment of
Clocks &J 5 Watches.
wan r ED,
| A JOURNETMAN ;
t -ALSO, one or two Apprentices of refaefli
ble parent*.
FOB. SALE,
A large quantity ot Watch Glafles
K'holefaic and Retail.
n9V ** 3
Bank of the United States.
November 14, 1 iqS.
XO7ICE IS HEREBY CIFEN, ,
r application will be made at the Trea-
X fury of the United States for the renewal
of a Certificate of Six per Cent Funded Debt,
i> °\'s'i4 B>f 8 >f° r 18,781 dollars, 33 cents, dated
u S J an "*ry Bth, 1798, issued in
the names of Will,am IVMink, Jan Wiltink,
Aicbolas b JaeoL Van Stapborjl Hubiard,
I rultees f»r lundry money-lenders in AmAer
m ■ wasforwarded the nth of Jauua
rs j!'s ß, undertoveru Nicholas Ohbe«, esq.
and 'oft by the capture of the ftjip Columbus,
captain Skinner,frowNew-York forAmltwdam
G. Sitnpfin, ca/h'r.
■ nOY '4 Jlawfiw
CtEORGE Davis's
LAW-BOOK STORE,
No. 319 H'o« Strut,
Latest London Irish Editions.
GEORGE DAVIS'S Faliiinporiaiion isnow
arrariged of which a more capital collec
tion "he tselieves was never offered for sale either
in this City, London or Dublin It combines
almost every book in,with fcveral valuable books 1
out of print. Davis's confining hiinCelf to the
sale of Law-Bo»ks only, it will appear obvious
to profclfional Gentlemen, the advantages they
have both in l'eleflion and price by purchasing
from him.
His Catalogues betag ready, gentlemen will
particularly oblige him by railing for them—
and to thole reliding at a diltance, by fovoring
him witii their address (post-paid) they shaM be
lent. •
nov 26 fn&thim
ADVERTISEMEN i".
Todd & Mott,
of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having
aligned over their efteds, real, pcrfonal, and
mixed, to the for the benefit of all
their Creditors—
Notice is hereby Given,
TO all per to us who ore indebted to the said
ellate, that they are required to moke im
mediate payment of their relpeilive accounts to
cither of the aflignees, or to W illi am Mott, their
agent duly authorized ; in failHre whereof legal
mealures vl ill be taken for the recovery of such
debts as are ret difchaiged without delay.
John Waddington ~t
John Rhodes. S-Affigncca.
John Allen. J
nnT. 26 tu.th^fatFi
'lo be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
For property in the Citv, or within Tliifty
miles of it,
A Valuable PLANTATI9N,
IN Tufcorora ValUy, Mifflin county, containing
about, three hundred acrts, the v* hole capable
of cultivation. At present theie is about 50 acres
cleared, 10 of which is a rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing ft ream, that
has fall and water enough for all the purposes of
a Country P«lill. For further iniorniaxion apply at
No. 68, Market (Ireet.
November 10 tnw
TTcTTIC E.
nrHE Stock-holdirs of the Company encorporat-
cd for ire Sing a Permanent Bridge over the
River Schuylkill, are ri-qucfled to attend their
annual meeting on the firll Monday in January
next (being the 7th day of that month) at the City
Hall, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, for the pur
pose of choofin;; a Prefidiint, twelve Directors and
a Treafjirer of the said Company for the ensuing
year, as bylaw is dire&ed,
JOHNDORSEY, fec'y, pr® s era.
dec 17 3awt7jy
~A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, of Philadelphia, who has
for a few years pad been in the fouihern Ststei,
has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex
change on Timathy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and myfelf.and by that means has detraudsd
a number of persons «f their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of letcers and papers with the
lismes affixed of divers public charaiteis and repu
table merchants highly recommendatory of said
Shaeffer ; to one of tlv.-fe papers I find my name
fuhferifced, but I do not know the man ; theie are
villainous forgeries! To prevent further imposition,
T" rrr-" -t in ttic
United States to publish this for the benefit of their
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Treafurit eftbi United Statu.
Trcnttn, Nr.* • Jerjry, ">
OiiobfT 14, 1795. i
NEIV NO V E L S, PLATS,
MAGAZINES, bV.
Chalk's Circulating Library.
A®. 7St North Tbirdjireet.
THE Proprietor, in compliance with his pro
mises to render this luftitution a complete
source of rational amusement and inftru&ion, by
repeated acquiCtioris of eatertakiug and intereit
injr publications, hjf now added to his former
cotleilion Four Hundred Volume, of miscella
neous works, comprising nearly all the latejl
publi//. e d Ntvels and Dramatic froduHiorti \
catalouges of which are ready for delivery to
| fubfenbers.
N. B. Subscribers, and others, who still ra
tlin Books taken from the Library previous to
the licknefs, arf requclted to return them imme
diately : the fines \»ill be charged from the 14th
of November.
For fait,
Fine fljvored Imperial, Young tlyfoo, Hyfoa,
Hyl'on Skin, ai d Souchong TLAS.
'^ 'J. t/>mi?w
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Eflate, called
SHREWSBURR FARM, formerly tbe residence
ol (i*neral John Cadwaladar, (ituita on Saffafras
River, in Kent couuty, Maryland— containing a
hout 1960 acres of prime LAND, upwards of ?co
ol whish aie 111 woo ls. The Buildings are all ex
celling and confifi < I a handfomc Dwelling House,
two la ge Bams with Cowhoui'es, Stables for fifty
horses.a ifeviou. treading floor under cover, a gra
nary, two Jverfeer's houses, two ranges of two fte
ry buildingsfor Negroes <«ie of them new and of
brick), Corn houses a Smoak house, &c. &c The
whole Ellate being nearly surrounded by water, it
requires but!ittle fencing, and has a good Shad and
Heipng filhery. It is conveniently Ctuated for
both the Philadelphia and Baltimore markets, with
two landings on* navigable river but a Cjort (ail
Irom Baltimore. There is a large Peach, and two
large Apple Orchards on the premifcs jalfo, a varie
ty of excellent truits of different kiniii. The foil is
mostly a rich loon.-.—The whole wkII be fold togc
therordivided uitofmallcr farms(lor»hichthebuii
dings are convcaiently situated) as may s u i t tbe pur
haler. The Stock on said Farm, cm luting of Hor
cfes, Cattle, Slieep &c. will also be dilpolid of.
For further particuUrsapply to Oror.ee HasTi.nqs
on the premifes,or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M CALL, Jun.
December la. bj. if.
Notice.
ALL persons indebted to the Ef
tJte ot Isaac TtLFAi*, hfq oeeealed. tic rcduelt
ed 10 make immediate pa\ment, and ibofe hatiur «.
Ny demar.di ag.mil said Eltile will pl«.fe co fwnilh
their accounts duly attelted (or feitlement lo
GtORCt DAVIS,
Attorney in fati co
JOHN M'KIM, jr # Ad'm'ir.
_ «w6w
MAYOR'S OFFICE'
RiiA.QVED t« 157 South Secon l-Breet.
THIS DAT PUBLISHst,
.Br *ILLIAMx£uKr
Corner of Chcfnut jnd Second ft '
JOAN of a >
Ati F.pic PQ EM '
By Rokrt Sourtty
" WK do Hot h.fiute t ; """•
tkat the poetical powers difpl, V 1. ,; C °P"iion
very superior kind—CaiicwtJn . * of *
daring, femiment, more Cflmmail ™ 0 ' c lof 'r «4
guage more energetic.. W.li not elfil "g- ha.
nor doesfcarcely » B y part of it fi„V • , oßdi -*
- tht. glow of feeling and Liu f. Blln P»>'.
whoU. The language j, (JZn, n™"" ,he
delled o.uhat of Milton • and nm r Pirt> "">•
has a ltrong rclift of Sha'kefpeare." F «=quently,«
M *" ta > w. i
-4 HISTORr,
, OR anecdotes or
REVOLUTION:, RUssi ,
its THE TEAR 1 7 6 2
Tranflatcd from the French of M A* d jl*
Wi i h T -/'^ t Head oftL^i?'
fflhefecond edition, price 7J ceDtl P i
" The grounds of M. de RulhierU" J •
fecm mJifputable, and hit reaiW in ' orn,lt "»
every r Jon tab. <° h »=
in unfolding the raotire. and circuit
concurred in bringing about this ftrikm "
•• Weftail only aid,
with more iiiteietting Brirmal h
those that are contained ??
wi have now reviewed." which
dec i Q Rni «"> "<■ «.
9 wHtm,m
An excellent Horse %$ Chair
TO be fold on reafinable term* a, ,h, >'■
Stable, No. 28 North Third-S, ' he Ln "'
N. B. The Horse belonged ttt 'a rentUm... -J
one of the Troops ia this City. 1B
dec 17
jawtw
ALL PERSON'S,
TTAVING claim* against ,h t Estatb or
xl SUSXNNJH LOCKftR, deceased, are
requelted t present their refpefliye accounts t»
Nathan a. smiths
ok L -doing
JOHN DORSETj £xecul"i
nov ? 3aw6w
DISTRICr OF PENNSYLVANIA,TO WIT-
_ ff IT XEMEMBEMED,
(l s) mAV on the twelfth day
,K of August, ia the twenty-third year of
* the ludejien dance ol the United Ststgs of
America, Benjamin Smith Binon.ef thefaiddff
tria, hath deposited in this office the title of a
book the right whereof he claims as tuthor in the
words following to wit ;
•' New Views of the Origin of Ae. Tribe, and
" Nation, of America—By Vinjaniia Smith Bar
" ton, M. DiCorrefpondejit Memoir oi the Socie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member »f
" the American Philosophical Seckfy, Fellow of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
" Bolton, Correfpondidg Member of the Mafla
" ohufetts Biftorical Society, mi Profeffor of
" Materia Msdica, Natural Hiflery and Botany
" in tile Univen'ity of Pennfylvaaia."
In Conformity to the »A of the Congrefj of the
United States, intitled " An ait for th« entourage
raent of learning by securing the (topics of maps,
charts, and books, to the authors aad
of such copies during the timesthervin mentioued.'i
SA.MUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Di(l.of Pena'
November s, 1798.
—— ; j, ,
Java Coffee,
350 Bags of First Quality,
Now landir troin on board the Ihip INDIA,
at Mr. Thos. Penrofe's Wharf, and for falc by
jfafe 4simioA,
No. 165, South Front-Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
For Sale, on reafanabls term,
Coffa e<
DattiJ
Black Taffaties, &c.
_ !?££ '_ c
Just Imported,
Iron catuion, double fortified, Woofwicb proof,
with their carriages coaiplcK—4,6 and ?
pounders.
Carrouades, Woelwish proof, with carriages, tu,
complete— 11, iS and 14pounders.
CaunoK powder in kegt of ijlfc. each
Round, double-headed, and canniftur (hot
Patent iheathifrg copper, bright, afTortorf 18, 10,
It, 24,16 and 28 or per square foot, ftcets 4#
kf 14 inches, fuitalle for vaffels from 100 t#
1000 tens
Copper oails, bolts iU)d spikes
Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlafles
Gunners stores of all kinds
Tin-platti No I—l-3 cross bates
i'attnt Ihot In calks of jcwt.each
London porter and Hrown ft«'jt, in calkl «f 7 flo*»
bottled.
Edrtben ware is crttes, afforttd
For Sale ty
SIMON WALKER,
Pine ntfar S : ' 1
Oftobcr 29. cats-
Insurance Company of North America.
THE STOCK SOLDERS,
are hereby informed, that a ihted
of the Company will be held at their Office
on the Bth of January next, (being the le
cond Tuesday in the Month) for tbc elec
tion of twenty five Direfbr. fcr the enfu
»'gy«r - £ UAZ AKD, S»c'ry.
Dec. 12th. -
An Apprentice Wanted.
A TOUTH, .
Of Reputable Cormefsioaa, & WM*
is wanted as an Apprern.ee ,0 the « J ''' p f,°.
tary Public and Con»»yao«((r.—Euqun* of "
tcr - f. m.swj
Dec. -
FOR sale,
No. 7. South h-Stki* "i
1000 pieces Nankeen»j
A Box of Silks
io Boxes powdered Sugar Cindy of IJ3
A parcel very fine
dec ,
For Sale,
A well improved Plantation,
Of one hundKd and twenty
TTERY beautifully , from the
V Montgomery, about rvrcsy g nl fcedfo
city—The nuildirgs are all w* ■ For
%s to »eeo" modate a geoted ) p, UH /.lv»»i»
lurther i formation,
Coat 01-Arms, mr.cteen m.ikS ix
three abrrs Morris-to*T.. &»tf
de:cmb«r I j