m ®-litttU a»d Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
- il9 Chefnut Street.
Nvmbes 1779.J
MAILS are now received from and
' sept to the following places every day
Sundays excepted.
Alexandria,. Va. Havre de Grace, Md.
Baltimore, Md. New Brunfwick, N.J.
Bladenlburg, Md. Newark, N. J.
Bodon r AI9. New Haven, C.
Bristol, "'a. New York, city.
Charleston. Md. PrincetOß, N.J.
Chester, Pa. Rahway, N. J.
Christiana, De. Trenton, N. J.
Elizabethtown, N. J. Walhingron, city.
Elkton, Md Wilmington, D. <
Georgetown, Ptk. Woodbridge, N. J.
Mails from Winthcfter, Va. are mads up every
Thursday 7-J A. M. and Friday half an hour be
fore sunset,
May- >2, J798. ">
"Generaf Po& Office 3 eo6t
William Meredith,
Attorney at Law.
HAS Removed to No. 137 Chefnut-ftrcet,
where Titles 10 Real estates are examined
Bricfii thereof and Conveyances of every
prepared. rrnv 22 awjn
This day Pitblijhed t
FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Book-store,
No. 52, Chefnut, corner of Second fttreet,
Or. fifie ivjve* Paper, xciib E'etrant En{rravifigs,
Dedicated to thePkESintNT of the United States,
1 he Studies of Nature,
Tranllated from th - French of
James Henry Bern ardin fie St. Pierre,
By HENRY HUNTER, D. D.
very ingenious, ii terefting and inflru&ive
Jr. work has finc« ft* firft publication, gone
through four fucceflive impreffinns, und-r the au
thor's immediate infpe&ion ; belides a jvariety .of
printed cJitions in different parts of the* European
continent. I
No book display? a more fublirnc theology, in
-cutcatffs a
dent and expansive philamhrophy St.Pierre ena
bl«*9 U9 to contemplate this universe with other
eyes; h«* furnifticd new arguments to combat
atheism ; has eftablilhed, beyond the power of
contradiction, the doctrine of a universal provi
<]«nce: has excited a warmer interest in favor of
fufik.ring hu.naniry, and has discovered sources,
unknown before ot moral and iatelle&tial enjoy
ment.
The avidity with which the clergy and other
learned characters in New-England, have purchaf
«d the Englilh edition of this delightful perform
ance, and the opinion entertained by them ; and
warranted by experience, that although written
before th« " Age of Reason," a part ©f it con
tains a more solid and com pleat reparation of it,
than any thing publilhed fiocc, are perhaps a fufii-
recommendation of the Stud.es of Nature ;
in which the Botanist, the natural and chrillian
Philosopher, the friend of erder and government
are equally interested, and by which they will be
equally gratified.
As no pains nor expence have been spared in !
procuring suitable paper and able artiUs, to render
the work worthy ©f the public ; and as the Sub- i
fcribershave exprefi«d their approbation of it, the j
.publifcer flatters himfelf, that gentlemen, who on
account of the bad and print of forte Ameri
an editions, give gen *ral',y the preference to the
Engltfh, will honor this with a comparison, before
they purchase.
The Naval Gazetteer ;
Being a cotnplcat Geographical Diftionary» contain
ing a full and accura'e account, alphabetically arrang
ed, of all the Countries vd ifljnds in the known
-.world ; (h-wing their latitude, iour.dings, and station
'for anchorage: with a particular description of the
Bays, Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Cur
tcnts, (iulpbs, Harbors, Havens, Lakes. Oceani, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals, Sounds,
Straits, Tides, Variation of the Compass, £tc. To-
wiih a particular relation of the (hape ?«nd ap
pearance at fra, of the fcveral Headlands, lflhmufes,
Peninlulas, Poins, Promonioi ies, and whatever is of
use or importance to the Pilot, Commander
or Seaman of any (hip or vcflel, in navigating the wa
try element.
Alfoy Comprehending
Ample dirr&ions fo r failing into or out of the differ
ent Ports, Straits and Harbor of the four quarters of
th» world ; and for avoiding dangers on the various
and extended coast ; in which more than twelve thou
sand diltinft names and places, See. are treated of and
«x r laincd. With acorreft set of Charts, 2 vols. Bvo.
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM.
This has been p?onounced the most ufeful and
the cheapest book publiftiea in America. It was un
dvrtaken f-veral years since, under tbe auspices of
Lord Sandwich while he was at tbe head of the Ad
miralty ©f England and from which every aflift.
ance necessary to complete so arduous a work, was
readily fuT-.jilhed, but it never made its appearance
on'i! last year. The favor it obtained with of
vcfl*e!s and other geutlemenconcerned in Navigation
induced the pubiilher to prepare this edition wherein
thv American Port*, Hcrbors,&c, have been cot reftcd
by a gentleman of great abilities, and ex:enfive idfor
matioo on the fubjett.
- 2aw4w
The Co-partner(hip of the Subfcribcrs,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davipson & Co.
IS this day difiolved by mutunl cor.sent, all those
ft.aving claims again ft said firm, are desired to
render th<?ir accounts, and those indebted to make
■payment to fofeph Davidfon, who i? duly autho
rised to fettle tke affairs of »he concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. The Stores at the corner ©f Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—Enquire of Jo
seph Davidlon.
April 26 w&sim
FO R~SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Spruce-street near Second-flreer,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, tfq.—This
house is in compear repair with back buildings,
consisting ps a Piazza, Kitchen and a hindfome
Dining Ko :n over th? Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the prcmifcs,a r»ore particular description iscon
iidered unneoeifary.
The terms of payment wi'l be one third cafli,
•one third in 6 mouths and the remainder in 12
months tviih intercft. For further information,
JOHN CJ< AIG,
No. 12 Docli-Jireet•
■may 16 J
A Country Seat to Let.
NEAR th? Franks rd road, about four and a
half miles from Philadelphia—the situation
remarkably pleasant and healthy. Immediate
]; jffcl;ion may be had Apply at No. 144 ,
Nouth Second Street.
nia 7 4 3tawtf
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, MAT 24, 1798.
JUST ARRIVED,
In the (hip Phcenix, capt. Grice, from Amsterdam,
2 box sSiarnois I hlid.Hogs Bristles, »ft
3 ro. Haarlem Stripes quality
3. do. Checks, No. a do. do. 2d do.
9 do. Sealing Wax 3 do. Glue, and
Cream Cheese in prime iichdhfirft quality Red
order for exportation Crust
al-SO,
Just Received, via Baltimore, &g.
5G bales brown Ticklfinburgs and hempen Linens
io bales German Ozaabrigs
30 bales brown Rolls and Heflins
25 bales Polifti do. suitable for coffee and cotton
bags
20 bales empty Bag 6
i bale bleached Heflans
I package Turkey Yarn
54 pieces vladrtfs-Handkerchiefs
1 «heft Tapes, No. 13, 25, &c.
t package cotton Lindfeys
250 boxes Window Gbf*. 7 by 9, 3 by 10, 9 hy
11, ioby i 2, 14 by 16, 16 by iB, &c.
20 chests plain and flowered half pint, pi#it and
quart Tumblers
20 chests Looking GlalTes, assorted
4 large elegant do.
30 travelling Liquor cases
1 cheftand 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A cargo of prime Mahogany
Several /. uchors, from 4 ro 12 cwt.
20 pipes old Port "s
A few quarcer calks Sherry (
60 caf« White ( VUNES
200 boxes Claret J
80 boxes Capers
3.00 fh.all boxes ttufiia Soap
30 tierces Rice
50 cades "Roll Brimstone
40 kegs yellow ftonc Ochre
15 k gs Pearl Barley
2 hoglhcads Madder
1 cheil assorted Q^ii!3
6 bales Writing Paper '
10 chests Slates and Venal*
20 trunk# Mens' and Womens' Shoes
60 Silver Watches
1 hhd Coffee Mills
2 do fifhitfg and blocking Twine
2 chests Nuremberg Toy»
A few Demijohns
A quan ity of stone pickling Pots
4 boxes of Knglift Chariot aad Chariot Harneft,
with plated ornaments in complete fettsfcr2,4,
or 6 horfes,alfo Whips, Spurs, &c.
The above Goods are generally entitled to draw
back, are suitable for the Eaft-Iniia market, and
will be fold at reasonable prices and at the usual
credit, by
PRATT & KINTZING,
Wo. 9j, North Water-llrcet.
April 16. t&fut
OX BEEF. ~
100 Barrels ) of Beef of best quality, put
50 half Barrels ) up with carefor long voyages,
ico Barrels of Coune&icut Pork.
50 Barrels of ConnetHieut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half calks of Sherry
30 Calks of Lilbon
3oq Cases of Fr«nch Claret, of excellent
quality.
&x> Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
too Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of best Durham Milliard.
For Sale i>y
John Skyrin,
Landenberger s Wharf.
""y 4 eodtf
Military Academy.
Public are raoft refpetffully informed,
X that a Military Academy is opened in the
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong
ing to John Mailers, esq. between the German-
Town and Frankfort roads, North Second
ftreet continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 60th Brit:lh regiment of Foot and
assistant Engineer to the Army a&ing m the
Weft-Indies.
Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
Exercise and made completely acquainted with
all the duties of officers, non-com mifiioned of
ficers and private soldiers in camp, garrifonand
Quarters ; the forms of regimental and field re
turns, detachments, rollers See. &c. also the
art of drawing plans, fe&ions and geomefrical
elevations, the elements of tactics, gunnery and
fortification.—A fubferiptio* lilt is Uft at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
the outlines of the proposed regulations may be
seen. The firuation is extremely well adapted
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are
set apart for the purpose.
N. 0. Gentlemen fr.im the Country boarded
i» thehoufeif required.
rna y IO - diw2awim
FOR SALE,
At the Store of Jesse Robet Waln,
On Spruce Itreet Wharf,
Port Wine in pipes, hhds. &qr.cafks
Lilbon Wine in pipes and quarter calks
And a few pipes of excellent Madeira Wine
m »y 16 eotf
Notice is hereby Given,
TH AT application has been made at the Bank of
th« United States, for the renewal of the sol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stuck, loft hy th?
capture of the Britifli Packet, Countess of Lticef
ter— viz.
j No.37o9^containings(hares') Issued to Henry Ca-
3 r °3 5 do. J zenove Nephcw&Co
73 2 I do. issued to Edwcrds
and Co.
3*B® 5 do. issued (in lieu ol
to 6513) to Samuel and Henry 'Vaddington.
29*8 4 do. issued to Phyn, £l
- and 'nglis.
All perlons concerned are therefore called upon
to fliew caufn why riew Certificates should no.jbc
issued agreeably to the said application.
a l' ril T 4 eo6w
For bale,
A Farm and Country Seat,
SI I I; A I EI) en the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite io iVorris-town, feventeeo miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contains 195 „ c es of land, 50
of which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, and
the reft arable land. The houfc and garden which is
large aod well paled, (land in the molt ple.lant fix
ation, commanding a view of fho river, an i(land
which is oppose, and the village of Norris town-
There is a fh3a lifliery belonging to the place—En
quire in Philadelphia, No. 56, North Third Street,
or on the prcmifes.
April >6 , awt f
PHILADELPHIA,
TKURS.DAV EFT.NING, MAY 14:
FOU TIIE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES-
No. I.
Unanimity of opinion, among the citi
zens oi any country, on any threat national
fubjett, is much to be desired ; but in none
have the sentiments of the people more in
fluence on their government than in our's,
and, consequently, in nnne is this harmony
of judgment more efientially neceflary.
Were it poflible for the government of these
states to pnrfue, for any time, a system of
measures adverse to the receivsd opinion of
a majority of the people, it would be like
ftru ggl'»g w'fh a rapH torrent that must
soon bear down all opposition. This de
termined resolution of the people to think
for tisemfelves, and not to trull implicitly
to men even of their own choice, is favor
able to liberty on the one hand, but on the
other is not without its disadvantages
Every great and important measure, even if
the welfare of the country (liould require
it to l»e immediately pursued, must wait the
fl«\V fanftion the people themselves, as
well as of theiir reprefentativeJ, before it
can he fafely aaopted. The instantaneous
apprwbatinn, or disapprobation, of so nu
merous a body as the citizens of the Uni
ted Ststes compose, is not to be looked for.
To form and cxprefs this opinion is a work
of time. Hence facrifices of the public
interest mull too often be made at the altar
of public opinion. That this position is
tenaSie the late tranfadlions, between our
government and that of France, unfortu
nately evince. What nation on earth, ex
cept our own, would have so patiently fub
mittcd to aggreflion after aggreflion ? For
five years have we been insulted as well as
injured by the French, During that pe
riod of time we have, with most astonishing
apathy, given up our deTencelefs merchants
an easy prey to the piratical cruisers of that
nation. We have patienily submitted to
injury after injury—to insult after infu.'t.
Our forbearance may kave excited the con
tempt, but it not yet dffarmed the ra
pacity of tl4- French. We have been
punished on our knees, and have not yet
risen. It has been our lot greater
outrage and violence than ever yet pre
ceded an »pen declaration of war. A cer
tain description has been drawn that cum
piifes every vtflel of uur's that floats on the
ocean, bound to a foreign port ; and all
within its capacious limits is to be loft to
this country. " Stay at home, keep with
in the limits of your own eoaft," they fay
unto us, " and you {hall be undisturbed. We
will yet al.'ow you to visit each other—be
contented that this boon is left you—yet a
lit'le while and it may suit our pleasure to
divide with you under your own roofs—
and even then we will have the lion's (hare.
The coasting trade we will fuffer a while
longer to reft undisturbed :—Were we to in
terrupt that, the poor fools would be obli
ged to open their eyes. Sufficient for us
willl be their rich European, East and Weft
Indian ships." This language is so plain
and intelligible that it has, at last, reached
our ears. Ihe rumour of discontent and
resentment begins to be heard. The Ame
rican, flow to aftion, begins to be roused ;
—the poison works—but the antidote is at
hand. Let us resolve with one heart and
one foul to live free, and we are yet fafe.
Let there be no limits to our confidence
in the government of our choice: it were
better to trust it with even dictatorial power,
than to unnerve and enfeeble the arm ex
tended for our piotedlion.
The bleflings of honorable peace are
worth some facrifices ; but it cannot be be
lieved that ourgovernmentwould have made
so many, had it not been expedient to con
vince the people what it behoved them to
do. Long since was it neceflary, in my
humble opinion, to have resorted to the
measures now about to be adopted, had we
not been divided in our sentiments and at
tachments in relation to France. It is not
now for the firft time that our administra
tion has discovered the confirmed hostile
disposition of the French Repub ic to this
country; but it was important to a fuc
cefsful opposition that the people should
be united, and, one and all, assured of the
juflicc of our cause. Whenever this came
to be the cafe, we (hould be invulnerable .
the contrary situation would have been full
of danger and disgrace. Something more
than common violence was required to open
the eyes of the people. Strong in our at
tachments ro the French, and in our enmi
ties to the Englilh, it was not an easy mat
ter to change the current of the public
opinion—that current which was accustom
ed to flow, in one course, for a long time
past, with such irrefiftable force. Had the
French set some bounds to their persecution,
it must still have gone on unrefifted. It i,
foitnnate for us that they have dropped
the veil of di(Timillation, and now ait and
speak out. It is iinpofiible any longer lo
doubt intentions which are so plain that
even those who run may read. We are, at
last, drawing our affections home, and con
centrating them upon their proper obje£l—
our own country. To the «' terribleor
t.ie " Scare Crow" nation, we return
" scorn for scorn." We are capable of
something more than scorn. History (hall
not yet prostitute her page to record that,
" in the eighteenth century there appeared
a coriftellation in the political hemisphere 1
that attradied the notice of all the nations
of the world. It (hone, for a few years, I
with unrivalled lnftre, and then set never to
rife again." By Heaven ! it (hall not be
said that the Americans of 76 were fnc
ceeded by a submissive and degenerate race,
that tamely furrendercd up (he liberties ai 4;
independence of their country without even
a struggle. There are too many Chips of
the old Block left, to allow this to be said
with truth. My brave youog Countrymen,
you who are coming forward and devoting
yourselves to the fervjea of your country,
cherifii the noble spirit—let not the sacred
flame expire—tend it with more than vestal
vigilance—refolva, like a band of Theban
brothers, to form a rampart of your bodies
, around the liberties and independence of.
your country. Think not, however, noble
youths, to have the entire honor of dc
fendingyour country : at lead one old man,
who has already fought and been wounded,
but not disabled, in the ferviaeof that coun
try, must be permitted to fli3re the honor
and the danger with you.
FABRICIUS.
New Tori, May iqlh, 1798.
For the Gazette of the United States.
The advice of Solomon, " acknowledge God
in al! thy ways, and he will direct thy p*ths,"
is as fnitable and proper for nations as for indi
viduals ; and perhaps the President has in no of
ficial adl discovered so much wisdom, as ii? re
commending: to the people a' large to ftt apart
a day f r the purpoles mentioned in his procla
mation. The history df every age furnifhes in
{lances of the interference of divine providence
in favor of those nations and individuals who
have in a fnitable manner fought its friendlhip
and protection ; and r«at of our own country in
particular contains many striking proofs of the
fail. Some of our earliest fertlements were
made in New England ; and the declared objeft
of the set tiers was f< ta advance the Kiagdom of
®ur Lord Jrfus Christ, and to enjoy the liberties
of the Gospel in Purity with Pea-e." People
a<fting with such views will neceflarily be in the
habit of depending on providence, and observ
ing i a various interpositions ; we are therefore
naturally led to their history in a cafe of this
kind, to fee what has been the event, and it is
pleasing to find among their records, proofs tfat
days of national penitence and humiliation have
been followed by the smiles of heaven, and by
national prosperity. It appears to have been
their common pra&ice upon 211 special and ur
gent occasions, to appoint a day of falling, hu
miliation and prayer ; and so remarkably were
they prafperedas a people, that when they had
been but 26 years in the country, the comtnif
fioners of the United Colonies thought it proper
to order, " that all the colonies should colleel the
special providences of God toward them," that
their poGerity might be grateful to God for his
mercy to their fathers, and be led to place their
confidence in him.-(*
In 1676 th« Indians were very fuccefsful
against the people of New-England, and threat
ened their deftru£Hon, particularly thofeof New-
Plyn outb. The government recommended the
observation of a faft, and the people cheerfully
concurred in it : and the following account of
the remarkable iflue is given by one of the feiflo
rians of that day. " This was the tranfa&ion
of this church ; and all the churches in the co
lony of New-Plymouth did, in a solemn man
ner, about this time renew their coyenant with
God on a day of humiliation: and it is never to
be forgotten how ready God was to hear the
cry of his poor people in the day of trouble, and
to save them : for immediately upon this motion
from authority" [for a last &c ] "and the
ch-urchc-s hearken,ing thereunto, God turned his
hand against our heztlien enemies, and subdued
them wonderfully ; and within a month after
cur solemn day, the greit head of all the mis- j
j chief, "Philip, was fliin ; the governor an.l ma- j
1 gi2.rates the week before his death sent an order
jto all our churches to keep August 12th as a day
j of publr tjiafikigjving for the beginning of re
! upon tKe enemy ; and on that v.-ry day,
loon after the public worihip was ended, his
his head was brought into Plymouth in great
triumph, he being slain two or three davp before;
lo that in the day < f our praise our eyes saw the
falvationof God."
I he New-England States continue to this day
in the praxflice of appointing annually a day of
i3fting, and another of thoukfgiviug ; and no
attentive observer can help remarking the hap
pine.s of their pi.litical situation in every re
lpeif>.
These instances (with many others which
might he added) evidently ftiew the propriety
and utility of national attention to religion, and
afford great encouragement to it I was there
fore much pleased to find the citizens so general
ly complying with the PrcHdentYrecommenda.
tion yellerday, and with their very suitable de
portment on the occasion : it was pleating in
every point of view ; for it not only contained
an acknowledgment of the superintending pro
vidence of God, and our dependance on it, but
it discovered an attachment to the government
under which wclive, and a very great unanim
ity among ourselves ; which will encourage our
rulers and strengthen their hands while it will
convince our enemies that we are far from being
the divided people they expelled to find us, and
thus naturally tend both to our frcurity and
P eacc - A'. B.
may 10, 1793.
f tee Hazard's State Papers, I'd. a P. 75.
At a. mseting of the Inhabitants of the county of
Gloucejler, NewJerjry, held at the Court-
House in purfuante of a general notice being
given for that purpose.
General Davenport, in the chair,
El flia Clark, esq. Secretary.
The following resolutions were unanimously
agreed to.
ift, That the present critical and alarming sit
uation of our country calls for every energetic
aid-in support of our national dignity aud inde
pendence.
ad. That a refpe&fol addrefsto the President
Senate and Houl'e of fceprefe-ntatives of the
United States he drawn up exprelfive of our un
ftiaken reliance on their 4,vifdotn and patriot ism,
our approbation of their measures to render cur
country happy, dignified and free, our entire con
fidence in the authorities delegated to adminijler
j that government, oi<r abhorrence of every means
made use of to divide us aJ a nation, and our fix
ed determination to give support ts a government
formed by the consent and approbation of thepeo
pie, and
That Dr. James Stratton, John Ciaekwood,
[Volume XIIL
efq. Major John Lawrence, Col Heftori, J*mr s
VVilkins General Davenport and fylajor Thorn
is VVilkins be the committee for rh- above pur
pose.
The committee after having retired for a few
minutes returned, and Dr Sfratton reported
ihe following address, which after having been
JillimSlly read was unanimously adapted, three
copies of winch, with the force - oiogr eTo 1 ullone,
were dirciJed to be made out, signed by the
chairman ai.d secretary, and .forwarded to five
honorable Thomas Sinnickfon, one of our Re
preventatives in Congress, to be by hirn pre Tent
ed to the Frequent, Senate and House of Re
presentatives.
THE ADDRESS
To the Pr E'iiDtNT, Senate and House of"
RepreSen tativks of the United States.
At a time when a fcreign nation regardleis of
either honor or faith, and ambitious only how
to add to her unprincipled polfeflions, i< wait
ing with the American character a baie and per
fidious attack, and on her commerce innumera
ble rapacities—t» remain silent fpe&atnrs of
furh Ignominious afTaults, such ravaging barba
rities «:i the perfous apd property of our citi
zens, and not speak with the loud voice of union
and tirmnefs, we trust is not predicated of the 1
people of New-jcrfcy.
Satisfied not only of the propriety bat bf the
neceflity of evincing to the world our
ble attachment to our present form of I*ovem
inent, to our laws and to the administration
thereof, we, the Inhabitanrs of jGlpuctfier
county, Ne>v-Jerfey. having this d.iv affsynbjed
atthe Court lloufc,.agreeably to n ticegive«./Io
tender unto you, our vnjhakcti auduntlhninijhr'd
confidence in the Executive and Congrrfs of the
United States.
We coufider the many wife, prudent flncl
manly efforts of our Lite arid prfjent chief ma
gijlrate to ke.-p unsullied the American name,
lecure the commerce and happlnefs of these
states and preserve us in tranquility with con
tending Rations as traits of that H'atchfulnefs and
parental solicitude so amiably an I happily dis
tinguishable in an American Prt fluent.
The insolent attempts .to alienate us from our
government and our laws " to enfeeble the fae
red ties which h ve hitherto linked us as a band
of brothers" and to shake oar national union—
we frown upon with that indignity and cor temp?
they merit.
Although wc deprecate the femes attendant on
a ftattof warfare and highly tftinaate the coust
lefs advantages refusing from a pacific firuatior-
Yct, if the fad appeal muH be mad*—lf we
my ft resort to those powerful con visions of our
strength and union—We do hereby engage, un
der the protecting arm of providential aid, cheer
fully to exchange all the pleasurable enjoyments
accompanying the latter, for the more honora
ble toil of the former, in defending supporting
and maintaining the dignity Freedom and Inde
pendence of these United States.
Franklin Davenport, chairman.
Eli/ha Clark, secretary.
Woodbury, May izth, 1798.
To the Inhabitants of the county of Qlocefler % i/l
Neav-Jerfey.
GENTLEMEN,
\ Your address, to the Prpfident, Senate and
11-ufe of Repreiematives has been presented to
me by your representative in Congress, Mr. Sin
nickfon.
I receive with great pleasure aflurances of
vo'jr unfinaVen and undiminiftied confidence in
the executive and legislative authorities of the
United States.
When you confider'the efforts of your late
and present chief magi 'true, to preserve unsul
lied the American name, fecurethe commerce
and happincf# of these fljt.s and preserve you
in tranqni ity with contending mtiaiu traitj
of a vigilant and parental folicitu le amiab'v
and happily di!hngulihed in an American Preli
dent, you touch my fenlibiliiy beyond mypow
eh of utterance.
VVhen you frown upon th* insolent attempts
to alienate you from your government and vnnr
laws, to enfeeble the laicred ties which have hi
therto linked us as a band of brothers a;:;i to
fltake your national union, with (hat ind gnati n
ard cunternpt they deserve while you do honor
to y.'ur own characters you givefure pledges to
your fellow citizens.
Your still more explicit engigemtnt under the
protecting arm of providential aid to exchange
ail the enjoyments of peace for tile in.,re honor
able toils of war ill defending, fuppornng and
maintaining the dignity freedom and indeuen
dance of these United S ates, if the t;re.-.t ap
peal and final resort mil ft be had to the power
ful convictions of our strength ar.d union, gees
as fir as the best of citizens ran go.
JOII.V ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May i3tb, 1798.
CHARI.KSrGM. May 7.
Saturday lad, agreeable toa notification, eallin- the
people together, for ihe jpurpnl# of e*pre!fi't£ their
determination to lu-jport the government and conll -
tution of ihe United Stales, a great number of ci't
zen:. met at thc-City Ha'l. On a fu.gcllion, ihatSt.
Michael's Church would be a more convenien place
for so la ge a body ol people to deliberate in, they
ad ourued tlii-her. John fcdwaids, e r q. lare inter,-
dant of this city, was called to the ch lr. He i.itr.i
duc d the bufmefs of the in-eting, by reading the
notification that was lilferted in the gaL.ltej of the
preceding days.
Mr. Dcfauifu-e, the ititendant, ,f ler an c ] Dqucnt
addrefs,dellueatmgthe awful lituaiion of ourountry
drawn from the late dtfpatches of our comtnilfi li.crs
in France, propefed the four full of the following rt
toluiion* ;
t. lt Rcf.lvcd, That the citizens of C&rleftoft, hav
ing fern with deep regi-ruriealienation ofthe Prenrii
re pun lie from the United Stales, learnt witi, r,„ c »re
laiislact:on the appointnient of a folcm.i emScT,,
composed of three of the m id citizrns
of Ihe United States, entrufbd with adrij.i , e oowen,
and with liber!!, wife and canciliaio>y iniliuttions,
tor the putpofe of terminating all di!frrrn_es be
" twecn the United States of America and the Frc r c'n
recuolic, and of reftprinj and confirming ccrfrffc
" harmony and good understanding, and re ;l»bli(h
---(t wg a commercial.and friendly iniercourfe between
'•them."
2. " Rcjvhd, That they have, under flood with re
a' lorrov/, that the exp.dhitions founded on fiis en - -
baflfv, have been dilappoin «*d, so that "thcrpexi s
no hope tha. the objc&s of the miflibn will be in any
way accr.trp i!hed "
3. " Rcjclved, That it is nhfoluiHy rifccHary, ; t
this awful m »ment, worn the moJi df
ruards have been made <§n this country, and ihoe
demands evidently growing out of an id,M of our ir
ternal divifioo, to declare publicly and 4(tur
fixed determination to maintain the co-i'luutu),t ;ijt _
y oit the government, and defend t ,? independence
of the United States, to the uimdH of our power,
and <"-t a ! aga;r>ft the encroacJimcms (A ever y
foreign nation.
/j. " j tfotved therefore; that a commit {re lft><ppor
ted to prepare an addreU r 0 <he Prefidcnt Sen* c and
llouse oithe nNßteH^leecfipliitious we hiv/» Jtnd f<p r f iT
■*<i ana Jofccuin* hrt th , rtmH prwnfr ?*d « ffechnl
j>ro*ifmns be riadf lor in D>otettio«< of she
e, dcTt- nee of hi up - tu: v, and msimenance
o: rhc to\cci-jn'y of the States.
" nd, as rhe 'uWfi demands which
m*?y be made on the government ot the United States
f<»! ti.« p<i r pofcs ot n?iii nai defence, may oblige a
t-o ''irmtrd dtov:1ioO for the t rtiftcations cffeiitial to
"f tHelejporti; therefore
r y 4 Rcfo'vcd, That a voluntary contrition be
ta'.fcd,.Lv lubfuij; *oii, in aid pt the funds which
t>r may he appio > ia cd by the
m: h , Ti ;he fornflc&iion.»n defence of the city and ,
ha;bo*of Ci srlellOD, and inlets < f this state.
6, 14 Rcjbtved, That jjen. Washington, col E. Rut- j
ledge, fJBI Vinierhnok, the Ime«>d»fii, col. Lee,
n»aj Simons, and Mr. Nathaniel RufT«*ll, bea com- j
tr»i ee so obtain and collc6t fu>~h fuMcriptions, and
to fu-C'ir end the applies ion rf the sums so raised,
to fa-n pnrpolf, m concurrence wr.h the engineer of
the Uiwted Srres. *«nd of the Hate engineer."
• Iter tome Intall alterations, the >ns on the
refolvrs, as above,, were put ; and the chairman call
ing for vhofe
the ayes vercgenerp the noes, none.
A edtjvirittee wss then nominated and ippoir-ted,
COMHHi .. at the Intrndani, gcn.G dlden. caul. Lee,
* d CApt. Marshall, to draft a.d epo can address to
the go amrnt of the United S ales; conformable to
the reflations.-
NEWPORT, Ma j ty.
/ n Addrcfs to the Pr-fideiit of the Uni
te' 1 States, irom the Citizens of this Town,
expvc.Ti.ig the warmell Approbation of his
official Conduit, a firm Determination to
(tippnrt the Government of the United!
S £t-s, and to repel foreign Aggression, is
now in Circulation, and has generally recei
ved the Signature of the Citizens
Wednefdny last (fays a Correspondent)
was oMVrved, hy the Inhabitants of # this
State, as a Day of Fitting and prayer, a
greeafely to the Proclamation of the Prefi
dei t of the United States and the Recom
menilati .n of the Legillature of the State,
in a Manner honourable to the high Autho
rity which enjoined it, and to the orderly
Habits and Cl.ara&er of the Citizens, —
Tlielr Conduct on this Occasion is an addi
tional Demonstration, that all Attempts to
divide a virtuous People from a virtuous
Government, will be frultrated—The Pray
ers and Vows which were sent up, to the
Throne of Heaven, by the united Voices of
Religion and • Morality, gave the solemn
Affurnnce, that the" Enemies of GOD
and MaN " will once more be dtfeated-
BOSTON, May iS.
We learn that the sentence of rhe court
tr.nrtial on C 1. Rochefontaine has been ac
cepted by government, and that he is dif
miflrd from the service. It is said Capt. In
gerfoll commands at Weft-Point.
We hear that capt. Isaac Collins is ap
pointed (ailing master of the frigate Consti
tution, and Mr. John Thompson, Boat
swain.
The young men &f Philadelphia are en
rolling themfclves in MiUitary Companies.
A Corrcfpondentinformsus, that a Horse
Mackarel was lately caught at Provincetown
Cape Cod, which weighed from 8 to 900
wt- He got entangled in the eel-grass
where the tide left him ; an 1 was drawn out
with a boat hook. The person who caught
this large fiffi, resides in Butler's Row, in
this towß, and wnj then at Provincftown, en
bulinefs A large number of the inhabitants
were ftd from it for fevcral days fencing
their children to cut off pieces as it lay on
the beach. Fr m the cawl and remnant
of the carcase 28 gallons of oil were obtain
ed.
Will be fold for Cash,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the elevtnth day of June next, at the Msr
chanrs' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not prcvionfly disposed of at pri
vate sale,
THE FOLLOWING TI ACTS Of
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia,
and the counties o£ Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
"Wm.M'lntofh, John Howell, &FerdinandO'Neal.
25000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of
Treetpan Lewis and John Howell.
44000 acre* in Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands or Jac«b War
rick, Daniel M'Cullum and JohnDilley, including
3000 acres of prior i'urvcys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpaflure River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,'
and including 4588 acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpaflure River, cnthe waters of said river, and
of Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grufeb, andincluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia Jnnds will be fold in tracts of one
thousand acre 9 each, the others in the quantities
and trails abov* described.
Perfcns desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arcb'ftreet ; propcfaJs of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
B. R. MORGAN,
No. 4r, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
> . No. 9, North Eighth street.
may 14. dts
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
?he firft Friday in June next, pare of a trad of
Land called STRUGGLE, lying in Worcefkr coun
ty, and all the reft of the Real Estate ot Jofliua
Townfend, deccafed, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine months credit for the ore
half f f the purchase money, and fifteen months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcha
sers giving bond with security f<;r the fame, on in
terett, from the day of sale.—All creditors of the
fa*Q Jofliua Townfend are also again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
»o the Chancellor, v/ithirf fix months from the 2ad
day of December last, that being the day of the
fit ft sale.
WILLIAM WHITTKJGTON, Trustee.
may 14- ?w
A few boxes of Umbrellas
To be Sold cheap—hy
Mardccai Leah.
may 11 d*w
LAWS ofrnbUfrllUL) STATES.
Fifth Congress of the United States:
at the second session,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, «
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon
day, the thirteenth of November,
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety seven-
AN ACT
To amend the aft, intituled u an a'B to am:nd
and repeal, in part, the aft intituled "an
aft to ascertain andJix the Military EJlal•
li/hment of the United States. 71
« X) E enafted by the Senate and
ec. Houfeofßeprefentativesofthe
United States of America in Congress ajfemhledy
That the Brigadier General who is now, or
may hereafter be in the service of the Uni
ted States be, and he hereby is authorized
tochufe his brigade-major and infpe&or, or
either of them, from the fommiflioned offi
cers in the line of the army ; and that so j
much of the second fe&ion of the aft inti- !
tuled " an a& to amend and repeal, in part, j
the aft intituled "an aft to ascertain and !
fix the military establishment of the United !
States," as confines the choice of brigade
major and lnfpeftor to the captains and fu- !
balterns of the line, be, and the fame is |
hereby repealed.
Sec. 2, Yind he it further enafted, That 1
the accounting officers of the Treafuryih 11
allow to Major Cufhing the monthly pay,
rations, forage and al owanccs for the fame,
as eftabliftied by law for an infpeftor, du
ring the time he has afted in said capacity
"by appointment ©f Genetal Wilkinfon*.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
TH: JEFFERSON,
Vice Prefidentof the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, Mays 22, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Prejident of the United States.
AN ACT
For the Relief of Joseph Nourfe.
BE it enafted hy the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress ajfemhled % That there
be paid to Joseph Nourfe, Register of the
Treasury, out of any unappropriated mo
ney ill the Treasury of the United States,
the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, to
indemnify him for the extra expence incur
red by kim in removing his family from Phi
ladelphia, in the years one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-three, and one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-seven, to avoid
the epidetf.ic fever ; and the extra expence
incurred by him in attending to the business
of his office during the fame periods.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH .- JEFFERSON,
Vice PrejtJent of the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, May 22, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Prejident of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of
the Department of Sitate.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
CONTRACTS.
THE Managers of the alms house and houle
of employment, in this city, will receive
proposals in writing, to be left at said house on
or before Wednesday the 3«th initant, from any
person or persons, willing to contrast for fur
nifhing Frelh Provisions, fay, Beef, Mutton and
Veal, for the use of the poor in said houses for
one year: The contrast to commence on the firft
of June etifuiflg ; the meat to befrefhand mar
ketable, and to be supplied in quarters, fore and
hind alternately, or in fides or carcases, as re
quired.— Also, forfupplying milk for the use
of the said poor. The milk to be cewj sweet,
and unadultera ed, and the supply to commence
on the 14th of June ensuing.
By order of the Board of Managers,
JOHN CUMMIAJGS, Steward.
may 23 dtij
A Young Woman,
LATELY from England, wilhes to engage
as a seamstress in a genteel family, or to at
tend a Lady.—A line left with the Printer here
of will be immediately attended to.
may 13 . *2t
7 bis Day Pub lifted,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41 Cnefnut-ftrect,
(Price 2< cents.)
OBEDIENCE
TO THE
LAWS of GOD,
THE SURE AMD INDISPENSABLE
DEFENCE of NATIONS.
A DISCOURSE,
Delivered in the Second Presbyterian Church,
in the City ef Philadelphia, iVJay 9th, 1798.
Being the day appointed by the Presidfnt of
the Unitfd States, t<> be observed as a Sea
fou for Srlemn Humiliation, Fafling and Prayer.
By AJhlel Green, D. D.
Pajiar of the aforefaid Church.
Likewise, just publilbrd, a Serinon, on the
fame occasion, by the Rev. Mr. Abererombie.
may 22 3t
WILL Bb. on'l uursdat 24th mlt.
by JOHN ORMROD, Chefnut street,
A PATRIOTIC POEM CALLED,
The ALIENS :
Written hy a Senator ©f the United States,
in conference ot the Alien Bill.
Some institutions of Pensfylvania are noticed— (
Dedicated to GEORGE' WASHINGTON.
In which the real American may enjoy
The ftaj! of rtafon ;
And the jtvzv f ul
(raicz 2J CENTS'.}
xuay 2Z. 3t
Xlit Casetts*
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING,Mat 24.
—- —
CONGRESS.
Yesterday, in she House of Representatives
of the United States, on the queftionof " Jball
this bill pass," being put upon the bill refpecl
ing Alien Enemies, Mr. R. Wi lli am s mov
ed to recommit the bill, which motion, af
ter fom£ discussion, was carried 46 to 44. —
Mf/Sitg reaves then called up tli« Reso
lutions which' he yesterday laid upon the ta
ble i-nftrattfons to he given to the
Commanders of Public and Private Armed
Vessels; when Mr. Macon moved, thatin
ftead of referring the resolutions to the com
mittee for the prote&ion of Commerce and
the defence of the Country (which was pro
posed by the mover) they Yhould be referred
to the Committee of the Whole on the Stare
of the Union. This motion was succeeded J
by a motion made by Mr. Da vis to.poUpone
the further consideration of these resolutions
until the second Tuesday in June. This mo
tion produced a debate which took up the re
mainder of the fitting, and the house adjour
ned without taking the question.
In the course of the fitting, the Senate sent
down a bill which they have pa fled, for con
currence, for the more effectual protection of
the commerce and the coasts of the United
States, which received its firlt reading. This
bill, as reported, appeared in this paper on
Monday.
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES
or AMERICA.
Sir,
THE Grand Jury of the county of Kent
in the Hate of Delaware, are im pre fled with
a belief, that it is their duty to express to
you their approbation of youreonduft as
it regards the Republic of France and
| other nations. With much fatisfa&ion\ve
have seen in your indru<stions to our Envoys
sent to negociate with France, your solici
tude to maintain peace, and the sincerity of
your endeavoring to continue her friend
fliip. While we admire the wisdom ard
moderation of our government, in her en
deavors to preserve peaee ; we have seen,
with indignation, every insult offered us as
a nation ; our overtures of reconciliation
flighted ; and the Ambafladors of peace and
friendftiip insulted, and every
species of provocation offered them ; our
citizens plundered when lawfully engaged
in the ordinary vocations of life ; our com
merce almost ruined; our merchants broken;
and our farmers, the support of their coun
try, unable to dispose of produce.—
Under these impressions, we pledge to you
our loyalty and fidelity.
We estimate the liberty we enjoy under,
we believe, the freed and bed constitution
that the wisdom of man ever formed; and
we feel, in a becoming manner, as the freed
people on earth ought to feci, under our
present circumstances.
The hardy sons ef America, who, in the
year '76, resisted with success the base at
tempts of the tyrant of Great-Britain to
enslave them, will not now, with their con
sent, become vassals to the tyrants of
France.
Your inftru&ions to and the dispatches
from our Envoys to the French government,
have bad the happy effeft of cementing our
country into one (>and, which we trull no
power on earth can break. Tbe unjust
and extortionate demands of France, will
deprive her of all advocates in America, and
conv nee our fellow-citizen 9 who have been
partial to her cause, while defending her
rights, and scourging the insolence of sur
rounding nations who attempted to interfere
with the internal government of iheir coun
try ; that fluflied with vi&ories, and grown
insolent by success, her views art changed,
and an insatiable third for power and domi
nation now governs her councils.
That Almighty God, who determines
the fate of nations and of individuals, by
wbofe permission or command all things are
done, may preserve the people of America
under all difficulties ; infpirc her rulers with
wisdom to fee, and grace to do that whieh
is right in his fight, is our sincere prayer.
Signed by the unanimous order of
the Grand Jury,
Manlote Emerson, Foreman.
Dover, May \itk> 1798.
To tbe Grand Jury of the County of Kent,
in the State of Delaware.
GENTLEMEN,
I THANK you for this address, pre
sented to me by your Representative in
(?ongrefs, Mr. Bayard.
The love of your country, approbation
of the conduft of government, resentment
of its wrongs, and resolution to support it,
are worthy of the chara&er of good citi
zens.
Witk you every good man will offer up
his prayers to Almighty God, that he may
preserve the people of America under all
difficulties, inspire their rulers with wis
dom and grace to do that which is right.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 21, 1795.
We the Grand Jurors of the General Court for
the Wcftcrn Shore of the btatc of Maryland,
held at the City of Anapolis, on Tu«ftlay the
eighth day of May, 1798, agree to the follow
ing Address, to he forwarded to the President
of the United States.
To the Prcjtdent, Senate, and Hcufe of Reprefentativss
of tbe United States.
WE the Grand Jurorsof the Geneaal Court for
the Weft em Shore of the State of Maryland,
viewing with much concern the situation of the
United States with refpe«sl to the Republic of
France, feci it our duty to express our entire con
fidence in your wisdom and virtHe ; and our per
se& attachment to the government of ©ur choice.
We have heard with disgust that the Americans
arc considered as a divided people, and feel with a
becoming indignation, the insult offered the Ame
rican nation, by the ruling party in France. At a
time when our country is threatened by an arbi
trary, overbearing nation, we cannet be silent ; w«
therefore allure you, that wc hear ily ap f rove of
the, conduft of the Executive, in its endeavors to
reconcile our differences with the French Repubttc;
and fli the nlfaCurcs v hrii fez-re hero heretofore
lulopted have not had the dcfux'il c2c<3, wcdo*
afTurc you, that to the .utmost extremity vre will
support Vhatever Uepsmay be thought neceflary
for the vm'iication cf our riyhes, aud to mrntain
the honor of the American name, and the inciepeß
deace of its) people.
WILLIAM STUART, Foreman.
7. lie Gil'J Jurori of tbe General Court of tie IV'f
tern Shore of the Stale of Maryland.
OIN TttutN,
1 THANK you for the expressions in yonr ad
dress, 6f your entire confidence in the President,
Senate and House of Reprefentativefi of the Unit
ed States, and of vour attachment to the govarn
njert of your choice, of your approbation of the
measures of Execii'ive authority in it* endeavors
to reconcile our differences with tha French Repub
lic, and of your determination to support to the
utr.-oit extremity, whatever Heps may bethought
ncccllary for the vindication of our rights, to
maintain the honor of the American name and the
independence of its people.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 19th, 1798.
At a general meeting of the inhabi'anrt of
the city, of Perth Amb~y, in the S ate of
New- jersey, on Monday the 7th day of
May, 1798 —John Angus, Efqutfe,
in the chair :
Resolved unnnimeu/Iy, That the following
Address to the Prtlident of tlie United
States, be signed by the Chairman in behalf
of this meetin,', and trar.fmitted by him to
the S|>eaker of 1 tie House of lieprefentatives,
with a request that he will prclent the fame
to the President.
1o the President of the United States.
S 1 R,
THE inhabitants of the city rf Perth
Araboy in the State of New-Jcrfey, beg
leave at this important crisis, to join the- ge
neral voice of their fellow citizens in oth.r
parts of the United States, in expreflmg to
you their sincere and unequivocal approbati
on of the measures whi h have bsen adopted
and pursued by the government, to preftrve
the blefiings of peace to the courtry, and
particularly to reitore harmony wich the
Republic of Fiance.
We refleA with gratitude on the eavnell
solicitude and fucctlsful endeavours of your
illustrious Predecessor, to avoid a participa
tion in the defolatory European War ; and
we acknowledge with plcafure a correspon
dent fentimer.t, on a review of the wife, firm
and patriotic measures of your Adminiflra
tion.
Although we deprecate a war with any
nation, and deplore the profpeft that now
threatens our peace ; yet under such aafp \»
ces, and relying on the unanimity of the
people and the juftics of our cause, we may
look forward with confidence to the favour
able issue of a contest, even with that nation
who, flulhed with viftory, has insolently
threatened our country with the humiliating
fate of Venice.
The exercise of a foreign influence in the
United States is so degrading, that we trull
every American will repel with indignation
any attempt of that nature—For ourselves,
we disdain the spirit that would bend to a
mean subserviency to the views of any foreign
power whatsoever.
Feeling an unlimited attachment to and
confidence in the Government of the Unit
ed States, we do not hesitate to declare our
determination to support, to the u'tnoß of
our power, every measure deemed neceflary
for the defence of the honor, interest, and
independence of our Country.
By the unanimous order »/ the Meeting.
JOHN ANGUS, Chairman.
ANSWER.
To the Inhabitants of the city of Perth Amboj)
in the State »f Netv-'Jerfey.
Gentlemen,
I THANK yon for your unanimous Ad
dress, ordered at a general meeting, and pre
sented to me by the Speaker, Mr. Dayton,
and for joining the general voice of our fel
low citizens, in exprtffing their sincere and
unequivocal approbation of the measures
which have been pursued by the Govern
ment, to preserve the bleffingsof peace, and
reflore harmony with the republic of France.
Your eratitude is juftlycue to the earned
folicitnde a»d fuccetjfcl endeavours of my
illustrious PredecefTor, to avoid a participati
on in the desolating European War ; and
your acknowledgment of a correspondent
sentiment, on a review of the measures of my
Administration, does me great honour and
receives my belt thanks.
Relying on the unanimity of the pe pie,
and the juflice of our cause, we may look
forward with confidence to a favourable ifiue
of any necessary contest, with any nation,
however inflated with viftorics.
It is too much to expeft, that every A
merican will repel with indignation any at
tempt at a foreign influence ; some will raise
their hopes of ambition, and others of ava
rice, upon such influence. These paflions,
if not controlcd by a religious, sacred sense
of m ral obligation, wil, soon form a formi
dable party in any nation, especially in a
commercial nation.
That the morals and religion of th s coun
try have been attempted, by measures the
moll daring and by others the moil insidious,
for tiii" vervpurpofe of ertfting and aiding
a foreign influence, I appeal to yonr own
observation and submit to your refleflions
I givis )ou full credit, for your disdain of
the spirit, that would bend to a fubfer
viency to the views of any foreign power.
For your attachment to the Government
of the United States and confidence in it ;
and for your determination to fapport, to
theutmollof your power, every measure
nrceffaty for the defer.ee of the honor, ints
relt, and independence of our Country,
you defer»e the highest praise of the bell
Citizens.
\Sigred) JOHN ADAMS.
; Philadelphia, May 15, 1798.
For Sale,
BYTHE SUBSCRIBER, NO 10, CHXSNUi STREET,
11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Wjiich will be fold on reasonable terns on a ftor
credit.
Robert Henderfon.
* mw&s4-vr
By this clay's Mail.
BOSTON, May 19.
LATEST FROM FK INCE.
Yesterday arrived here brig Union, Cspt.
Smith, from Bordeaux, 50 days. This
attentive Captain has furnifhed Bordeaux
papers to the 25th, and Paii« to the 20th
March.
Tranjlations for the Certtirtel.
Bordeaux, March 25/ A.— A pr vate let
ter from Paris, inform*, that the three Ame
rican Envoys still remain in that city, with
out having been received hv the Executive
Directory. Several proportions have been
made them on the part r,f th; MinifleT of
Foreign Affairs. It appears that he has
exafted from the™ many f tcrif.ces. They
have wri'ten on this to the govern
ment of their country, an'. are waiting for
definitive answers THE DIRECTORY
APPEAR DETERMINED I O
TAKE VIGOROUS MEASUR 8. IF
THESE PROPOSITIONS ARE RE
JEi TED. From prtfcnt appearances
every thing will be decided within two
months.
£j' i his paragraph confirm® the Oißcial Letter
from M". (Vnf'.il Bourne, to rhe Editor, as far as
rsktrwo an interview with TaUeyra-djtl'e Mfiiif
ter«! Fore'gn .Affairs; lut csntr.-'i£s m: para
graph which mentions, -hat Mr. Gerry had infdrm
e ! Mr- Bi that the n«'g«ciatinr,i atJumc! i favour
abl« afpcA. 1 hat paragraph wa* not official.
Cenlinet Editor.
Copenhagen (Denmark) March I. After
it was known that the Legislature of the
French Republic,had decreed on thefeizure
of Engli/b merchandize, found on board of
all vcflels belonging to neutral nations, the;
Danifii government equipped two fail of
the line, to carry to a certain latitude, fucti
of our merchantmen as were bound to the
East-Indies.
Mr. Putnam, lately confined at Paris,
was released the 17th March, by order of
the Direitory.
NEW-YORK, May
morning about a o'ciock, art attempt
was made by three or f<>ur villains to enter the ftoro
ol Mr. Fnmcia Panton, WaH-ftreft by going through
an alley-way opposite Mr. Gaines in Pearl-ftr-*ct. A
robbery was prevented by the incendiaries being dis
covered fropi an alarm given by a dog; on whicn they
made a precipitate retreat.
COMMUNICATION.
A letter from the minister ot general police to juf
ticasof peace, See, of Parisdated i§th Ventofc, gives
a frightful, but no doubt a very jult, pifiurc of the
prefect ftateof that city, with refpe& to morals—it it
too long to tienfcribe; I therefore present you only
with a short extract.
0 The excess of libertinism, and the licence of
prostitution, are at their height; almost every quar
ter of Paris is the public theatre of them; th s dido,
lution of manners has been produced not foleiy by
thehabl's of vice to which y*ung people, left to their
own guidance, have abandoned themselves, drawn at
firft l>y the heat of blood and an irregular appetite so»
' p'eafwe—this debauchery even precedes vouth ; and
infamous lust has corrupted infancy itfe f.'*
He then proceeds to excite the feverityof the laws
in reprefling of at leatt moderating theexeefs of thete
th»ags ; but may it not be asked whateffeft can laws
or tribunals have on the moials of a people, wbefo
government, or rather whose tyrants have publicly
proscribed all religion, wh» have impi .ufly dared to
brave the deity and to deny his existence ?—Their in
famous attempt to feducea whole nation to darkness
and infidelity, mud and will recoil with vengeance on
the heads of the reducers, and their poileHty will
bitterly repent the horrid deeds of the present day.
HAGUE, March 7.
Day before yelterday the pnrjeft of our
constitution was prefentrd to the national
aflembly by the reprefe»tative Ocberf?. It
was received with enthusiasm and ordered
to be printed. It is speedily to be difcufled.
NANTZ, March 17.
The army of Nantz is in full movement.
We are also a (Tared that 30,000 are abouc
marching again to the Nidda to form a
corps of observation, and even to penetrate
further, in order to operate the pajfage of
Germany.
PARIS, March 23.
The Dircflory has pafled a remarkable
decree which imports, that in retaliation,
the Englidi prisoners of war, without dif
tinflion of rank, Ihall be imprisoned and
treated all alike. All paroles are revoked.
The Dire<ftory reserves the liberty of grant
irg them to such as may be thought de
ferring.
REVOLUTION IN ROME.
Ci-devant Miftreft of the IVorld.
Rome, March 2.—The events which oc
curred upon the entrance of the French in
to this city, prevented us from anticipating
those we have witnefled. The joy caofed
by our revolution appeared unanimous
Since thg morning of the 16th February,
the arms of the French republic hatj been
placed in front of the academical palace of
the nation. On the summit of every emi
nence, on tSe top of the palaces of the most
diftinguilhed personages, was seen fl»atirtg
the banner tricolor. It had replaced the
sword in the hand of the statute on the '
castle of St. Angelo.
On the anniversary of the coronation of
Pius VI. the day when the cardinals were
atfembled in Chapter, the patriots,
in concert wiih the French, had made everv
preparation for planting the trie cf liberty
About 10 o'clock, a review of the tn)qpj
was ordered, at which the whole city was
present. At the fame moment was seen, is
suing from the convent of St. Frarcis. a
proctflion of a kind, rare in this city. Thofe l
religious emblems regarded by the Remans
as the sole objefts worthy of reiprft, had
been replaced by that of liierty ; and the tree
consecrated to her was brought forward,
and borne by a groupe of citizens. The pro
ceflion made the tour ot Campo Viccino >
and it was a lingular fpeftacle to fee a'num
ber of prieflts itnd monks lend their broad
(houlders to bear the tree of liberty. Arrived
at the arch of SeptimusSeverus, the French
'officers present exclaimed Vive lePeuple Re-.
main, and the cry was repeated with accrtits
.of univepfal enthusiasm, The army marchedifterthe people—theprocefibnafc.TiJjd ih j
Capitol and the liberty tree was planted be
fore the ftatueof Marcus Aurclius, which
ornamented with tricolor ribbawds
and fringes. Unanimous acclamations far;&-
icned the triumph of liberty. Every citi
zen of either sex, by a fraternal fencimcnt,
feeined to have but voice and one heait.
A deputation wai afterwards sent to the
camp of the commander in chief for his ap
probation.
aft by which the city of Rome was
rvenerated had beendigefted by fournotaries,
and it was read aloud, ft contained in sub
stance ; —-That the Roman people dpteft d
the crimes of which the prieftly government
made itfelfchargeableagaind the French
Republic—that it resumed its sovereignty,
and implored the support of the grandnation.
After which the aft was approved by cries
of joy, and fubferibed by an immense mul
titude.
The general received the deputation of j
the people with tbe utmoll affability, and in j
the name of the French Republic declared :
ROME, an INDEPENDENT REPUB
LIC ; at the fame time offering £O,OOO
frenchmen to defend its liberty. He then i
returned to the camp amid the acclamations
•or the pcopl -.
Meanwhile the Cardinals, at theclofe of 1
meeting, aflembled in the hall of the
Va'tcan, and their abfo'ute renun- j
ciatiorr of temporal government. General j
Oevone afterwards went in feirch of the ;
Pope, and announced to him that the people j
had thought it their duty to resume thefo-
And my dignity r cried the Holy |
Father : It.is too intimately conneftcd with
religion, which the people mean to keep fa
ct;ed —It has fo declared in the solemn
jtft proclaimed in their name, and you are
pro mi fed a treatment suitable to your rank.
And tfiy perform pursued Pius VI. It is
perfeftly fat.e, 120 met) are appropriated sos
its protection. The Pope then appeared,
if not fatisfied, at least resigned.
The 16th, it was announced by procla
mation that a solemn mass would be celebra
ted the following day, by the Cardinals, but
thrt for this ceremony a brief from his Ho
lincfs was *quifitc—that afterwards Te
Drum would be sung in solemn gratitude for
the regeneration of the Roman People—and
this Proclamation contained 1 hefeex preflions,
so proper to reconcile othodoxy with liberty.
** That the foundation of every political af
foc ation was religiou, and that God was
the author of religion and liberty."
NEW YORK, May 23.
Extra 3 of a letter from Hartford, (Connefli
-cutJ dated May 1798.
We have joft finifhed eanvafifing vhe votes for 1
feprefentatives of this State in Congress, and I
now enclose the state of them. The result is
highly fatisfa&ory to the lovers of our govern
ment and national independence, and will be
equally mortifying to the partizar.s of French in
fluence.
The following is the statement of votes given
£or the present reprefeatatives in Congress from
this State, contralied with the votes for known
-oppofers of our government.
Pnfent Kepreferttatives. For known democrats.
Ch. Goodrich, 4,600 Joftah Meigj, 440
"Nathl. Smith., 4,507 Jonathan Bull, 434
.Siml. \V. Dana, 4,500 AlexanderWolcott 433
hn Alien, 4,387 Willi im Judd, 330
Wm. Edmund, 4,305 Doubtful,or not univer-
R 'ger Grjfwold, 3,659 sal.'v believed to be
Joshua Ccit, 5,083 Democrats. i
Gid.Grander, jun. 905 !
Kphraim Kirby. 811
In this statement the whole force of oppof:- |
tio.nis exhibited—and 440 is the number. Such
i* tie <i great change of sentiment" which
Green leaf announced ! But it mull be remem
bered thit the legal voters in the State amount
to fifteen or twenty thousand ; and if they could
all be brought to attend at the ele&inn, the ac
tual majority of» deci ied'fupportera vf our gov
ernment, would be found from 40 to 50 for one.
The people of this State, not only l have not
changed, but they never qjuilL change, while
the government is admmiftered without corrup
tion. There may be strength eq®ugh in France
to exterminate the inhabitants of Connecticut :
■bttt I there is ftct force enough on earth to
subdue thtm—to make them renc unce their pre
sent government, institution* and principles, or
to tributary.
•It i 6 a remarkable proof of the fpiiit of the
people in this State, that a few days ago the
masons at an officers, left out of of
fice their Grand Mafterand other officers, fo'e-
Jy on the ground of their democratic principles,
a proof of public virtue excrcifed against private
rejpeft and fritndjhip, that enrols the brethren
among the belt »f patriots.
It is with lingular pleasure I mention that a
firm and spirited address to the Frefident in this
crisis pifl'ed th? Council unanimously-, and the
FJnufe of Repiefeutatives, with only two dif
fering voices —the votes were 169 to 2. With
this faft, 1 leave the partizans of France and
Atheilm to enjoy their exultations over the de
clining federahfm of Connecticut ! / I
NORFOLK, Mav 7.
j Counterfeit Notes ! !
Yeftcrdav a man named James Smith, was detest
ed in this in the aft of rounterfeit
Bank Note*, and carii d before MefTis. Wiilcox and
Loyall, and committed for further examination.
'1 here were eight nOl es of ?o doliars, drawn on the
United States Branch Bark at Chailefton, and one of
5 dollar#, puahic at Philadelphia, found upou him ;
and during his examination, nine others of 20 dollars
e?ch, thai he had pilf-d. weienrodured.
Robert Smith CST Lg.
No. 58, South Front-Jlreet.
HAVE received by the ship Belvidere from
I.ondon, a quantity of Knlfia Goods, con
fkitiA of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c.
And by the Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Glafgo a', an aflortrricn* of Scotch good?.
They have also cn hand India Nankeens,
Luteflringh, and a variety of India Muslins.
n< ? y 23 , dt, w
30 Dollars Reward.
THF. Cellar of the Subfcrihers was br >ke
open lalt night, and several pieces of Stor
mount ground Chintz of afet figure were car
ried off. vi hoever will apprehend the thief or
thieves, or recover the go«;ds shall receive tlie
above reward, rr in proj ortion for any part
thereof. ROHEK'V SMITH dkCd.
No 58 South Front-fireet.
msy 23 d2w
____ ' ro lis SCLD,
By John Nixon Zsf Co.
A few hhds of ex'client'St.Cro x SUC.AH and
*V M, which will be landed at V. ill ngs and Fran
jis* wha:f rext Monday, the 2ifl inliant
may 16. djt eotf
Xfje pajctte.
PHIL ADELP HI A ,
THURSDAY EVENING, Mat 24
APPOINTAI .~\ T rs —il V AUTHORITY,
Benjamin Stoddert, of Maryland, S
ecretary of lh= Navy—vice George Cabjt,
declined.
George Woodruff, Attorney of the
United States for the Dillrid of Georgia
vice Charles Jackson, rrfigned.
The Executive Direftory have pafTtd
feverallong arrets, f'rbi,!ding the people to
aiTemble fr>r the puvpofc of exprtffitig thtir
opinions in a collective capacity.
It is much to be fca.eJ that the Iftwirs of
Switaer'ind are ere this co .pic e y annihilated,
by ti>e>horrle» nf R fvolutioniz-.as-, dil'gorg
ed upon them from the great store houiVof roi,
hers and afiafiins. It appear* that the people of
the country are at open hodility with tholV of
the towns : n-tmus pirty diltn flions ?.rc affum
?<i ; andjnftead of turning their arnjs against
the common foe, they a e remorfefy engaged in
dcllroyHig taeh other.
ExtraS from the Regijler of tie itefiherations of
the agency of the Executive DireSorj, at St
Domingo.
" In pu: fuance of the law of the 29th Nivofe,
yea- fix, the vefle!s of the Republic and the
French privareeriare authorized to capture ves
sels carryini; English merchandize, destined for
all o Her ports than thole of the colony ofSaii t
Doming., which continue faithful to the repub
lic.
In purfti nre of the 411 anicle of the law of
the uth Nivofe la!t, and to provide against the
■ecrfTities of the colony, the vefitls of lilies cr
neutrals, ricftined for p.'rts of St. Domingo,
which have remained faithful ro the republic, are
except, d from the difpofitiom of the lawof the
»9th Nivofe tail; they may continue their
voyages for the faidports of the republic,what
ever may be the nature of their cargoes. I: is
enj( iited upon the vcfTels of the republic, and
upon the French privateers, not only to relpet'l
them, but even to protect them, when they (hall
have (hewn the r real deftiuation to be for one of
the ports of thec-lony, which has remained
faithful to the republic."
Trandated for thi» Gazette—Received by a
veflel arrived at the F»rt from St. Domingo.'
A Correspondent luggefts the idea of n
total interdiction of all trade wichtlie French
ports in the Weft-Indies as the only effeflual
mode of bringingtheadminiftrations of those
Islands to a sense of jiiftice.
PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL.
At a meeting of the Contributors, present
nineteen members—
Upon information now communicated by
the Managers, it is Resolved,
That it is proper to proceed as early in
the present season as it isprafticable, in com
pleatingthe original plan of the Hospital,
by eredling the Center Hoafe and Western
Wing, so 39 to run up the walls thereof,
and (hingle the fame ; also to finifh the Wes
tern ward for the accommodation of perfuns
affli&ed with lunaey,
Resolved, Ih otder the more comfortably
to accommodate patients labotlripg under
afflifting malady, that the Western
ward (hall extend in length fix feet more than
the present ward, so as to admit two rows
of cells on a floor for this purpose. '
Resolved, That the Center Kottfe be finifii
ed with a Dome, and the foiith front there
of, with fix marble pilaftres, agreeably to
the elevation now exhibited.
JOSEPH SWIFT, Chairman.
Witnels,
Thomas Wistar, Cleri.
Publithed by order of a board of Mana
gers, at their meeting held at the Hospital,
the 14th inft. *
SAMUEL COATES, Clerk.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Bache attempts to jullify the French for
subjugating the Swiss—and charges the
druggie for all that gives worth to life, to
the Patricians—How much better this ad
vocate of French despotism understands the
interest of the Bernois, than the fix thousand
who fell facrifices to the arms of the French
in defending their country ! —How much
happier are these vidtims of French frater
nity, than those whs fu vive to witness the
degradation, fiavery and misery of their
country 1
A publication haslateiy appeared in our city deep
lv interesting to the inhabitants, by a body of physi
cians called the Academy of Nfedcine They bring
forth nuny faftsto (hew, that the Yellow Fever thav
be generated among us, as well as imported from a
broad ; that our laik Yellow Fever Wn« generated
from the filth of our (freets, and from tbe foul air of
two !hips being let loofc upon our city. 1 rave read
the pioofs of »heir aftertions, which consist of affi
davits an J certificates, that in my opinion caorto' be
coniradifted, 1 hope cur citizen* will be alatmed
in time, and removeall the filth and d-rt at our gut
ters, &c. beiore the hot weather of July and Augutt.
at whirhtime we are usually vilited with the Fever-
In New-York it is said, they kep r off the fever
last yeaV by cleanliness, and the icg:(lature of that
flare have lately palled a law, to enable the citizen*
(lit) iuitber to guard aga;nft that internal enemy shew
ing itlelf. New-York bas long been the rival o f "tbe
tradi*of Phi ndelphia ; if she ihould prevent the Yel
low Fevtr brine: generated from alleys, gutters, dock*,
See. and we be viliied with it every year, this rival
(hip will Toon end, and New-Yoik be the fi-ft, and
perhaps the only great trajing city in the middle
itatcs A MERC b A NT.
BEWARE OF COUNTERFEITS !
Extradl of a-better from Mr. John Runk,
Merchant, at Cohufkil', Schoharie coun.
ty, to the Printcrsof the Albany Gazette
dated May 11, 1798.
" Last evening, as feme of the children
were returning from school, and crossing the
Cobuikill bridge, they fay a small bundle
under the end of the bridge., which they
picked up, and on opening, found it con
tained 35 counterfeit bank notes of Penn
sylvania, and the fame as the one enclosed
with tbe copperplate, which I also fend
you. On cl« ltly examining you wi.l find
the president andcalhier's names ligned. Ycu
will please. to make it public through the
medium of your Gazette-, that our cit zens
may h.scn fhtir-guard sgainfrihs imp. li
tmus intenJed to by pra&ifcd upon them.
These bills arc well executed, on thin wove
piper, but eno water mark—The Pre
fnlent and cafiiier's names are dim v engra
ved on the platr, appnuently to afnil in imi
tating the the true b<lis."
Tin's day £t ir o'clock, the Secretaiy
of War, accompanied by captain Bariy,
commander of the frigate United States,
and captain Ds!p, commander of the (hip
of \ r ar the Ganges, went on board the lat
ter ship, and delivered his orders to captain
Dale. On the, Secretary's leaving the ship,
a salute washed ; immediate'y after which,
Hie weighed anchor, to proceed to her cruis
ing flation.
A motion vCTts made in Congress this day
to poftpot:e the consideration of inftruvlions
to armed vefTels of United States to
the 2d June —and loft by a great majority.
The reference of Mr. Sitgreaves' resolutions,
as also the bill sent rrom the senate, on this
fubjeft, vras carried by a great majority.
A letter from Leogane, of the 26th u!t.
mentions that Pott-au-Prince had capitu
lated.
A letter from St. Martin's, of the Bth
in ft. informs of the capture of fliip Glaf-•
gow, Alcorn, from Philadelphia to La
guira, and the flnop Betsey, MaiTett, from
Philadelphia to St.Croix, on t' e 29th uk.
—both vefTels sent into that place.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED. Days.
Brig I.avinia, Caflin, . Hamburgh 60
Schr. Ranger, Weymer, PaflUmaqnpdy 15
Maxiniihat, Whitby, Norfolk, 8
At the Fort.
Sh'fp Four Friends, Glenn, Havannli 21
Schr. Polly, Chrifwell, Martinico 27
Schr. John', Ford Cape Francois
Kitty, Green, Port de Paix
Sloop Sally & Jane, Matthews, Havanna 17
Sloop FriendOiip, Bloomfield Barbadoes
And a brig, schooner and, Hoop unknown.
The ship Citizen, of New York, from the
Havanna bound home, is ta&en and sent to
Halifax.
Artived yesterday the fliip Richmond,
Capt. Hathaway, with a valuable cargo of
Piece Goods, Sugars, Ginger, &c. from Cal
cutta.—failed from that port the 15th, and the
Ganges the 28th of January, in company with
the ship John, Jackson, of and for this port,
and the ship Warren, Cartright, for the east
ward.—Lest there the ship Three Sifters, Do
ble, of Boston, to fail for Philadelphia, in a
few
of and for Salem* to fail in all February.—
The Richmond fell in with no veflels on her
pafTage.
Brig Maria, Woodward, from hence has
arrived at St. Croix.
Brig Aftive, Baker, from St. Thomas, ar
rived at Wilmington on Tuesday.
Capt. Caflin, of the Lavinia, from Ham
burgh, fpokeonthe 29th March, going up the
Elbe, a handsome ship that from New-
York.
Nen-Tork, May, 2s,
ARRTVFD, DAYS.
Ship Mart?, 1 Sheffield, Charleston ia
Brig Union, Matthews, Havannab a«
Scbr. Fort'itdcle, Taylor, Norfolk 6
Polly, yltlen, do. 5
Sloop Eagle. Rord, Alexandrfl 8
Peggy, Berry, Frederickfturgh 9
Nancy, ■ Snowbill
Polly, Boyle, Savannan 16
Baltimore, May 22.
A fliip from New-York, to this port, has
run aground on Cape Henry, and is entirely
loft.
Norfolk, May 17.
A St. Mary's Pilot, arrived on Tuesday
relates, that he fjioke a brig bound to Bal
timore, having on board part of the crews
of two Philadelphia (hips, captured by a
French privateer a little to the fuuthward
of Cape Henlopcn.
A Hampton Pilot, arrived yesterday, in
forms that four days ago they spoke a brig,
bound to Baltimore, the captain of which
said they had been" boarded by a French pri
vateer brig, that had taken a Philadelphia,
a New-York, and a Bsfton (hip, off Long
llland.
Yesterday arrived the schooner Guardian,
capt. Blackwell, 28 days from Maderia.—
On the 4th April, off Maderia, spoke a
sUet of 6 Eall Indiamen, under convoy of
the Leopard, of 50 guns, then out 8 days
from Portsmouth (E) they had on board
Lord Clive, who is appointed to the charge
of the government in India. Capt. li. in
forms, that the French collefted 2 divisions
of troops (one of 40,000 and another of
10 000 men) to march agsinft Portugal ;
but that the Spanish court had not confen
tcd to their palling through Spain.
On the 9th May, in fight of Bermuda,
was boarded by the Porcupine Hoop of war
rom whom he learnt they had chafed two
Krench privateers ou this coast, but could
not come up with them.
May 11th, in lat 34, long 67 30, was
c'aced by a fehoontr privateer with sweeps.
for 'tx hsurs but escaped in the night.
A (hip, fnppofed to be the Smallwood,
Jolinfon, of Alexandria, from Martinique, |
is fliore on Cape Henry.
The brig Zebra, Stone, from this port,
arrived at Bristol in 30 days.
The (hip Virginia, Davis, from this port,
has arrived at Cork.
FURTHER translations
FOR THE GAZETIE O- THE UNITED STATES
HAGUE, March 9 .
Authentic advices from China, of the ift
and 7th of June 1797, inform that in many
provinces of that empire, they were occu
pied with great movements The insurgents
had already rendered themselves matters of
fix cities of the firll lize, and thirty seven of
the second rark, whilst a formidable fo r ce,
fert by the emperor in order to fupi refs
them, and to prevent a total bouleverfemcnt
of the e ■ pire, were surrounded by the in
surgents themselves.
PA RIS, March 17.
We learn from the coasts of the Black
Sea, that atnongft many veflels wrecked in
a violent (lorm, there foundered cne wliu.li
was trar.fporting ninety-two beautiful Cir.
caflian girl*, destined for the feragiio of the
grand fignior.
The pofTrfiions of the cardinals at Rome
have been ftqutdnted ; the ci-devant Ro
man princes n-iil have to pay forthwith t>
the French republic a contribution of many
millions, as well as the llatutes, and the most
beautiful pi Sures from'their galleries.
Advcrtifemtnt in one of the Bordeaux
papers : A girl juil rip?, is desirous of pro
curing ihe place of chamber maid. She
knows a little of every thing ! Enquire at
the nunnery, and figri of the Hl-erty cap.
RA.STADT, March 9.
The deputnion of the empire held fitting* the
sth and 3th of this month to deliberate upon the
(hori and cutting answer which the French mi
niften have given to the Ion;* deliberation* of
the Ifl of February and the Jll of March. The
plenipotentiaries of the empire have long been
undecided upon the part thi-y ought to take ;
but the miwiftc-s of many Austrian ftf.tes liavitg
repr.-fented ihit if they did not accede to the
preliminary propofitionsof the French republic,
the war would be recommenced, and that all
tiiofe countries of tne empire which had not
made their private peace with France, would be
invaded in a very fliort time ; these motives ioin
ed to the counter no*e which removes every
mean of eluding the principal question relative
10 the cession ot all the left bank of the Rhine,
finally determined the deputation to make the
complete lacrilue. They have declared, it is
fa : d, that they wiil abandon all the left hank,
but upon condition that the Fr-nch republic, on
its fide, (hall accept the conditions annexed to
that cefiion.
FRONTIERS OF TURKEY.
F bruary 29.
Success continues to crown the effor's of liic Port®
agaijjfl P t <(T*ran Oglou, though have been hith
erto partial, in the hope that the arrrv aiTemfjled be
fo-e A dri.'nople would br able to llrike the last blow
at that audacious rebel. Osrr.an Pacha, command
ant at Rudfchuck, afier having beaten the rebels be
fore that town, advanced, the beginning of this
mor;h toCziftow (a town Gtunte on the Danube and
celebrated by the last treaty of peace between the im
perial coutt and the Ottoman Porte). He attacked
the remnant of the rebels with truch vigor, drove
them from that quarter after killing i«o men, and o
bligea them to tread back their Heps toward Nico
pol's, which they seized upon in their retreat. The
Cadiof Cziftow, as also three other rebels, convi&ed
of ho ding communication with th« rebels, were de
capitated on the spot. \t the fame time, Mullein
Pacha who was encamned with a corps of troops be
fore Grabowa, attempted to surprize Tirnowa, a ve
ry populous city of Bulgaria, which the rebels had
also occupied. This expedition fucceedcd the more
briskly by means of a secret correfpondsace carried
on with the Aga or primate of that quarter, whom
PalTwan o*lou had raised to that polt. The rebels
were not only driven from Tirnowa, but they were
obliged to retreat precipitately upon Widdin. Paf
fwan Oglou has, it is said, collefled his principal
forces in the environs of that fortrefs, which he is
caufmg to be put in the be ft slate of defence. They
relate, that the garrison which he left at Nicopotfs,
lately discovered a subterranean excavation in which
they found a great number of tons of powdei, in
perfeft order. Paflwan Oglou has had it conduced
to Widdin.
GRENADIERS
At a meeting of the Philadelphia Volun
teer Company of Grenadiers, May 22,
Resolved, that 3 Committee of five mem
bers be appointed for the purpose of re
ceiving the applications of persons disposed
to join the Corps.
Pnrfuant to the foregoing resolution, all
those who are inclined to become members
of the Company, are requested to make ap
plication, immediately, to either of the un
dersigned.
Thomas Barton Zantzinger, 239, High ft. -j
Daniel Murgatroyd, 11, Walnut fl." I $
Stephen R. 'Thompjon, 6, Laurel court, > 5
George Harri/on, 53, Chefnut fl. I §
John H'ard Fenno, No. 119, Chefnut fl. J
VOLUNTEER GkiiENS.
An adjourned meetingof the Troop will
be held at the house of Barnabas M'Shane.
on Friday evening the 25th initant, at 7
o clock, when Gentlemen are particularly
requeued to attend,-as an additional nomi
nation of new members will be ballotted
for. JOHN MORRELL, Capt.
Cj" The Committee appointed laffSaTui
dayevening by tlie meeting at the City- Tav
ern, to confer with a committee of M Pher
fon'a Blues, reqtic.v the attendance of tl.ofe
persons who are inclined to join the Aflo
ciation, ct Six o'clock THIS EVEN
ING, at Mr. Dunwoody's Tavern, High-
Street.
Macpherfon's Blues.
AN adjourned (meeting of thrjßlues will be
held at the house of Mr. Dunwoody, on
Monday next at 6 o'clock p. m. Tb» gentle
men corappfing the fame are desired to be punc
tual in their attendance, as the committee ap
pointed at the last meeting will then make their
report. By Order.
Richard RenJJjaiu, jfunr. Scc'y.
may 24
1 he Subscribers,
Are landing
At Willings' wharf, from on board of the
Brig Lavin 1 A, Capt. Caflin,
1711 Bars of Archangel Iron.
FOR SALE
Philips, Cramond & Co.
may «
FUR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably fall failing Brig
PENNSYLVANIA,
jfEREMtah Tatfm, mailer.
®' le w '" la *' ' n ,en day.—fo r
freght or pafiage, apply to J AMES YARD.
h'alr.at-Jlreet PVkarf.
may 23 dipt"
20 Dollars Reward.
RUN away, last night, from the Subscriber.
living in York Town, Pcnnfylvarua, a
German Servant man, John Nicholas
Kelb, a taylor by trade abcut 30 years of age
and abcut 5 feet 2 inches high, has browse urled
hair, and nearly bald cn his head, had on a blue
Surtout coat with a WW velvet cape and a dark
blue coat with flee! buttons, a naixtured
cloth jacket, cloth eolored thickset partaloons.a
new rorum hat, clouded cotton dockings an*
calf-lkin shoes with firings. He h a go<nl fchol
lar in the German tongue arid fptr.ks Enghlh ;
it is likely he may lurk in and,about the city of
. Philadelphi a as he has acquaintances there.
Whoever takes up and secures said servant in
any goal so that his miller can have him again,
lhall have the above reward pai-1 by me,
TLomas Giuens.
may 23 *diw
1 I .1 ■ ■ » ■ I —*'> I
Jufl Landed,
AN'D FOR SAL K BY Till SUBSCRIBER ,
Ao I ■), Scrlb Fro'.l ft, c. t.
25 hhJs and a barfi-ta Coffci
V/ HSR i MAV A I JO dS HAD,
Mountain and VUiaga me in hhds. aniqr ca!ki
A few cafrs cf fupitrii-ir aid Colemerur Wine, fit
for the immediate ufo of private families
Calcutta and Madrafs Goods.
cdhsisn NO OF
Humhumn, fitkery., Patn.i CHi'.tz Taff.itlei,
PuUicat, Chjvpa, Madrafs.anJ Barhaf Hamlkc
chiefs.
40 bones of Spermaceti Candles--and
A few green silk Umbrellas cf larg- fiz-,
EDIVARD DUHANTi
r '=y *4 « 3t
Canal Lottery, No. il.
Confiderab'y more than Half Drawn.
D [ ar tm\"' C J a J W ' rk \ U°"<l"y & Tue/Jay.
j *CKIi I 5 hor Sale, Seven Dollars each, at
1 WILLIAM BLACKBU&'s Loner-,
aad Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-ilreet,
where check books arc kept for examination rnd
regiflerng 111 this, City of Washington j.
and Paterion Lotteiies and information where
Til kcts may be had in moi> of the Lotteiies au
thorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
ST •, TE OF TllE Wm»L t
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000
t»ve 4 000 2O,00:1
wo »>cco 4,00/
Nine I,OCO 9,000
Nnet'ea 500 9,- 3! >
F >«y f "<■ 200 S,Boo
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and ot the fifty dollar przes—the price of tick
ets will loon rife, particularly on account of the
five 4,c00 dollar prizes that remain i.i the whe«l
until the last day of drawing.
0' Nore, the bufineft sf a Broker du!\- at
tended to in all its branches at the above o.Tiee.
_ may 34 w&stf
Do'dtor Sheed,
FKFLS hiirifelf infinitely ■ hliged to the per
fen who advertffed in Mr.Fenns'i Oazet:e
wishing to fee Sheed ; and assures him, ti.it he
would inflantly have complied with the request,
had it been in his power. (Jut after a coiiiine
inent of eight weeks, occafi ned by the ague a:i<l
fever, getting better, aud profpedl* owning
once mo/ e for his attendance to his buftr.ei's, he
wis feizej with a return, and complaints blend
ed with It which hvee confined him ;o hishedevtf
finee and for the lafttend>ys unable to change
his position fcr a moment, lie can neither lay
on one fide or the other, or lit tip for a moment.
His only hope in now from the abilities and lkiil
of the gentlemen who attend him. Dr. Sbeeit
would not have been thus prolix, but his friends
have repeatedly told him, that reports were in
circulition of his having left the city; did th«
cruel authors know, that I derive no lupport,
but from the earnings of my profeflios, to feed
and bring up five finall children, if a spark of
humanity were in their poOTcfiion, they'would
not add dilirefs to where it is at this time ton
well known To be found at all times a: his
house, eornerof Pine and Sixth-streets.
may 24
io be Sold, in Burlington,
Immediately oppofit* the wharf on the river De
laware,
A Large new two story brick House, and Lot
sixty iect in front and one hundred deep—
The House consists of two large parlours, one 17
by ai, the other 19 by ai, an entry in the mid
dle, three large bed chambers and one finall one,
well fiai&ed garrets, a large kitchen, pantry, store
room, scc. with good cellars, good water and gar
den, all new, well finifte.i and in perfeft order.
Immediatee poflcfllon will be given. Enquire of
Edward Bonfail & Co. or of Frauds Durdin, Bur
lington, who will inform the price and (hew the
premises.
ni *v 2 4 3taiw
, For Cape Francois,
_ -T"™?—v TBI SHIP
NORTH AMERICA,
Barnes, Maflcr,
fail in eight or ten days.—For
freight or palfage apply to
Pratt & Kinfuingi
No. 95, North Water, near Race Street.
WHO HAVE FOR SALE,
Port Wine, Clar t, Madder, Brirr.eftone, Red
Crufl Chcefe, Tumblers, Tickl«nßurghs, Heffens,
Brown Rolls, &c. 6lc.
"-•ay eod6t
Fox's Auction Room.
ON Tuesday next, at.ten o'clock in th
tfiornin K *» will be fold by an&ion, a num
ber of articles in the Sadlery and Coach
Harn t9S line—confiding of
Complete felts cf Cortch and Cha-}
riot hafnefs for a & 4 horses
Complete fctts of Chair Harness [»nnely plated
Complete setts of Furniture for j
likeharqef# J
Plated Bitts, Spurs, Tefrits, Buckles, Staples
Spur Leathers, Straps &c.
A L S O,
A quantity of Englifli Walnuts
Capers
Sweet Oil
Coffee Bags
Glass-Ware
Looking Glafle*
Silver Watches
EDWARD FOX, au<sUt>necr,
may 22 dts
Colledor's Office,
Philadelphia, May le, 1798.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC 'AUCTION.
AT the Cuft«m-Houfc, on Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the following mer
chandize, which remain in the Cullom Hoi. fe
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XH) eight half faggots of fleel
(TD) 2C2 one bale girthweb
( FL) a quantity of ftetl
one cafe lamps
C&C one cafe bobbin
(W) one lmall box medicine
AB 203 one matted qafe Dutch book?
one keg herrings
(W) one small box cf famp'es of buttons
n>] 1 " 3 three bales girthweb
[VH] aco one ditto ditto
| N j 200 on« ditto ditto
(No mark} eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle slates
[LSj one small box locks
Notice is r;sreby Given,
r yO the creditors of Charles Hamilton, that
A he has applied t" the Court at Ueiding
lierks county, for the benefit of a lavr of thi»
commonwealth, providing relief for infoWetit
<!ebtor», the court have ordered, jnd do appoint
the Monday . f Angull «ourt next, to hear
the creditors of the said Charlr. Hamilton at
the court house in the borough of Reading,
may 23 0 , tFor SaLe, or Charter, - |
■ - THE ARMED SHIP |
belvjdere,
J..NATH..N REVNOLDS,
LYING at J efftand Robert "W aln s
wharf, burthen 256 tons, built at
New-York, !:y Mr. Chcefeman in 1793. ' ive
oak, cedar and locaft—was completely coppere in
I.oudou lart year with 28 ounce hard rolled navy
cupper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a (launch and faft failing (hip, is well found
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to feain
a few lay* at a very little expence. For terms ot
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on boar
t6 capt. Reynold's, or at No. 16, Jiorth front
street or at the Merchant's Coffee-Hohfe, to
UICfiARD D. AkDEH.
WHO HAS FOR SALE ON BOARD 3AI» SRUP
10 Toe a dry white lead
5 Tons of shot
13 Tonsrolle i (beet lead
20 Bal*s English Duck, assorted numbers
10 Tons whiting
may 19 §
Just arrived,
In th e brigGayofo,capt. Bingham, from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality ■
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty cases Vinegar
And the said
Also, FOR SALE,
Bnouire of
Jehu HoUingfvuorth & Co.
No. 7,1, Little Water ftreef, South,
april ao.
FOR SALE^
1,5 hoxe« wh. =) fja Vanna h Sugar
107 do. brown} "
zoo Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at \\ illingsand tran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Will
iam Wiliianis, matter.
said Brigforfale,
And may take in immedi
*'V"!juW ately after discharged.
Apply to
'Jehu Hollingfivorth & Co.
march 30. §
CjP IF Mr. Charles William Klemekc,
Formerly of London, a;id who left England for
some part of the United Sta-.es of America, in
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti
more, or to MelTrs. Ifane Hazlehurft and Son,
in Philadelphia, he may hear of something great
ly to his advantage. Any information relpeft
ing the said Mr. Charles William Kletneke,
would be thankfully received.
may 19 d 3*
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the neweftandmoft approvsd patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
an® for sale by
A lex. J. Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may iB.
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
wish to receive two or three genteel boat ti
ers. The Houfc is handsomely lutnilhcd; the
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well (locked with the ehoioeft Fruit.
There art several Muficallnftruinsnts, amorglt
which is a moll excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handfoire Coach, which may be at
the service of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are mod excellent
ths y/ater good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town. _
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zette. dtf l 6'
WANTED,
IN A PLEASANT SfLU^TION,
WITHIN a few miles of Town|(for a l.ad^, late
ly from England) Board and Lodging, in a quiet
rsputable family—would engage for five or fix
month!, and give very little trouble. A line di
rected to J. S. and left at the printing Office will
be attended to immediately,
may 18
A Country Seat.
TO BE LET for the summer season or by the
year, the greater part of a large House, in
a high, healthy situation, above the eight mile
(lone, on the Germantown road (occupied only by
a newly married couple)—with (tabling and con
venience for keeping a carriage. For further par
ticulars, enquire of Caspar W. Haines, in Ger
mantown, or the fubferiber, on the pnemifes.
HEZEKIAH huntsman.
may I
Ross y 5/iMSOA,
HAVE FOR SALE,
22 balesfuperior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Baftas, CofTaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
• Jamaica and") RUM
Bengal j
april 2 $
Thomas ts" Joshua Fisher,
H AVE FOR SALE,
At No. J, Dock-fcreet, near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining fctts, tea and coffee
cups and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taflities
Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and English umbrellas,
Togeihfr with a general affbrtment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. iod. lid and 2od. nails
Crowley fleel, Spanish brown and white
lead
Engliih scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
111 barrellsof kiln ciryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious StareinDock-flreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, suitable for
any business. § 4th mo. sth
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, on the ?th of April, a Negro
Man, named ttlofgcriv, perhaps he may pass
by the name of Ghfgozv Lee, or may change his
name; he is a out thirty ore years of age, nearly
fix feet, high, has afcar in the upper part of hisun
derlip, a fmallpart being bitten out between the
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left bund has betn very fore,
and wasfo at the time ha ran away, by being bHrnt
some time pad : he is a ...out, strong fellow, aud
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro woman of
Mn JofhuaLingoe,of this county. It is supposed
thay are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that fccuces said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfciiber (hall get him again, fliall receive the
above reward. LSME BAYLY.
State of Maryland, ">
Somerset County, april 10. j may 4—4W
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH i, 1798!
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN purftianee of the Ad of Cengrefs faffed on the filth day of Joly onethoufand fevcn huadrrdai-d
nii.ety-feven, e-titled " An Afl laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and t.'.e
Ad past.d on the fifteenth day ot Dumber, one thousand faven hundred and r.*nety-feven, entitled
" An Ait to pollpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the Act enti
tled " An Aa laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that f.-om and after the
firft day of Jyly ens.i i®, the feveralStamped Butiesherealter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
For every (kin or pieceof Vellum or Parchment, or Iheet or piece of Paper, upon which fliall be
written or printed any or either of the inttruibenU er writing!following—to wit:
1 ' Dls Cts. | Mil
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - - S
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the admifiion,enrolment or regiltry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proflor, in any Court of ihe
United States, - - - - " . 10
Provided, that a Certificate in anv one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Office!, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty afsrefaid, be a fufficient admission in all the Courts of the United
States,foreach andevery ofthefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any luck grant or letters patent, (ex- ,
cept for lands granted for military services) ... 2
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or llefpondentia Bond, - - I
Any Receipt or difeharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or 8-
ther testamentary instrument, or for any (hare or part of a perioral eftatc di
vided by force ot any statute of diftribiftUns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereof (ball be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - " *5
When the amount thereof fliall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, ... 50
And for every further fuin of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of !
liny Policy oflnfurance or inftrtsment in nature thereof, on any (hip, veffcl or
goods insured fjrom one diftridt to another in the United States, is
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for whic-h
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - is
When the sum insured (hallexceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature foover, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, Other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
fumilh for the use of the United States or some particular fUte, - 50
Any P.onJ, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exehange, projniffory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United Scares or any (late, or for their
use refpe&ively, - - - - * '
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - to
If aWoflt one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, is
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoufaud dvllars, ,50
And if above one thousand dollars, - -
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes fliall be fubje<ft to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid —viz. - " :
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - | 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dolbi s, I 10
If above fiv« hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, I to
If above one thousand dollars, - - 3°
Any Notes iflued bvthebanks now eftabliflied, or that mjy hereafter be eftab
lilhcd withi* the United States, other than the tiot« of such of the said Bunks
as (hall agree to an anuuil composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpedlively, according to
the following scale. -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dpllar, - 0
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars. jo
Gn all notes abcrve one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - " "
On all notes above five hundred dollars, * *
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, - - - "
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pension, <>r to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - .
An* Certificate or Deb'entore for drawback of Customs or duties, for left than
five hundred dollars,
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 1
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandiz# to be exported,
K from one diflri<St ty another diftriil of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - *0
If from the United States to any foreign fort or plae<, - - ij
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or efFedtj, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels for
pent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any kgal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any hifarance Company, of a (hart in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and r.ot excoeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - is
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for cme hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be colleAed and received by the Suporvifors, Infpeflors aud other Officers
of Infpe&ion, in the several DiilriAs, Ssrveyo and Divisions of tjie United States, and by such other
persons as (hall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftnels for
that purpofc.
111.
The Supervisors of the several Didri&s will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be practicable, mark or flartip, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, o* payment of thefaid duties ; Or
(tamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Iltfpcdor, Officer of Infpeilion,
or other psrfb* appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Difirids
GIVEN vndtr my Haud, at Philadelphia
the Jay and year abwvcment'tonfd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March Ip. Secretary of the Treasury.
March Ip.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
r T" , HAT by an all of Congrcfs pafled on the
X 19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the ad pafled on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An a<£\ laying duties on stamped vcl
" lum, parchment and paper."
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed
-11.
A difcouqt at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or InCpe&ors refpedUvely, to any persons other
than Officers of che Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each skin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each /km of
Vellum of medium size, which may be £urnift
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any leflcr quantity.
Given under my handy at Philadelphia, the
day andyeir abovementiored.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let)
(And pcfleflion given on the Ift of May)
A genteel three (lory brick House,
22 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with hack buildings
and ftables,at present in the tenure of Major J a ck
son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
April 2. §
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
(Price 25 Cents)
Reflections on Monroe's View
OF THE CONDUCT OF THE EXECiJTIFi,
As publiflied in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In ivh'tch the Commercial Warfare of France istraxd
' to Fa&ion in this Country, as its Source,
and the itlothss of tfs.
TO BE SOLD, by
John Nixon Ssf Co.
A quantityof very excellent LOGWOOD
NOW LANDING AT THEIR W«AfcF.
may 10. 3awtf
Frefli Teas.
JuJ} Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, fa
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Coupling Houfie, Mo. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hU Compting HouCc, Crooked billet whwf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
al?o,
China Ware, assorted ; bhck and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nafikeens, Caflia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whalc-bonc sticks.
They have also For Sale,
Ell wide Pe.rfians, Bandanna Handkerchief*,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Svgai ir boxes,
march 8. §
Now Opening,
At Will ia m M'Law s Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general affortmeiU of Horseman's
Pistols, dired from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, B<>xes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Sevan Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at 7c*
Dollars, where check books arc kept lor render
ing and examining is thefc, the City of W afliing
ton, No. ll.and Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. The b»finefs of a B*oker, inbuyingand
felling all kind! of PHblic Stock and Securities,
difcovnting Bills and Notes of Hand, falc of
Lands, Houses, &c. 4cc. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 1 j. $
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT CF T&£ UNITED STATES
STANDING on th« Books of tbetreafury, were
forwarded for London by ths (hip \V i» 1 iani
Penn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
3164. 8:. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
F.Awird Oiddy, of Thrcdrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June 2, I 797* Certificate
No. *0,072.
8021. 1?- Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Kdward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797* No. 15196.
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Orm(by, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797* No.
10199.
40183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Ja:inet Mathevv, of Upper Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated October 31 1797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is iptended to be made at the fiid office of
jhe Trealury of the United Stats*,-—and all per
sons concerned aredefired to talc, notice.
ALSO —IN THE SAME VRS3KL,
Fifteen (bares Storkof the Banlcof/JwitedStates in
the name of William Manning.of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January 1, X 797-
No. 25982, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of w'iich,application is meant to
be made to the said Back of the United States.. —
and all persons concerned therein are desired to
take notice.
JN. FAUGH AN,
Philadelphia, may 4- s^w
Th e following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, (landing
cu* the Books of said Company in the name of
Darnel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlefcx, England—viz. No 2151, representing
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No.Bls0 —13066 to
13075, ten (harts—No. 214Q —13056 to 13065,
ten (hares—No. 2148 —1150910 11 s 18, ten (hares
—No. 2147 —11471 to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the j
(hp William Penn, which having been captured,
said certificates arc supposed to be 101 l ; for the rs
newal of which, applicajion will be made to the
Board of the said company
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may 1 *d6w
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene • onnty, Commonwealth of Pennfyl
vauia, on the waters of Fi(h and Wheeling
Cre«fksand Ten Mile Rhh.
Thefr Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound m Coal ; they were fold ten years ."gofer
five (hillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, ex
cept 370 c acres, which were patcntad in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in The tradl
is between the O'uio and Monongahela. very con
veHient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
villag-5 of Greene(burgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one iourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the refir
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. §
TO BE SOLD, ~~
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New Yoyk, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the township* of Hamdcn and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, from their quality and situation,
are a very defu able objc& for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will! e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2r. § -
JUST RECEIVED.
And for faleby W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 11S High-fire* t
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-flreet and the
Booksellers generally,
(Price 5-Bth* of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Pom, historic and deforiptivc *
By a Lady of Bojbon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion to the surrounding Profpe&—lnvocation
to the River and Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Fi&ion discarded—Dedication to Waft
ington—The A&ion open>at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfonification of Fortune and Fame—
Wafhingron at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of tha Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical Hiflory of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
Britilh Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Coagrefs—Declaration of Independence—Cha
racter of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic Apo&rophe to the Progress of Free
dom throughout the World,
march 30. §
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut ftrect,
oppome the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purpo.fes (in a manner peculiar to
himfell) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of defigo, truth and beaucy of
colouring, nentnefs and masterly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with all pofiible dispatch, on themoft
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, Sc.c, &c. executed in (tile (not that
superb (tile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist master of his profeflion.
Mr. Gull/vcer, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatter* hirtifelf
that profcflional talents, pun<sluality, and reason
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wHpkafetoc.il at his Paint
ng Rooms. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a mafteriy manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind cau ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trull felf
flattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ing of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contracting talents
of Henrv Frailey, at Germantown. may 10.
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half 10 serve, is a
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
has been accuftomcd to marketing for a family—
Ms age about thirty two years. For fuitbcr parti
culars, apply at the oilice *f this Gazette,
FOR SALE.
A neat Country House,
THREE and a half miles from the city, on
the VViffahicon road, with seventeen and a
half acres of land, half in orchard and half in
grass. Apply to Edward BonsallA Co,
in Dock-street, or to the fubferiber at Mount
Pleasant, cn Schuylkill, adjoining the preraifes.
Jonathan Williams.
N. B. If not fold before the firft of Ju*e, it
will not be for sale during the season.
may 19 _____ 1 J
Military Colours, 1
PAINTED ON SlLK—bv
George Rutter y Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure the hardships of the
weather without injury, and which iq>r neatnefa
and exuflitude of colouring cannot befurpaffed in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
FurnHhed with dispatch, en the most moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accompliOied in that superb stile
c£ modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter pledgee
himfelf from ao years experience iu this city wilt
meet the entire approbation of his friends an<2 the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painrirg Room, Morris's Court, back oi the Naw
Library.
may 1, df>W
'notice.
HAVING observed an advertifemcr t of C»
Gullager, in terms derogatory of our pro
fcffional abilities, we have to requdft the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits of each by a coir.parifon ot
the work extcuted by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents of ellabliftied artists with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrofling that business which
their profefiional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Wei] knowing that public opinion must
govern, we flatter ourfelve6 that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great'fupe.rio
riry'over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, andihew thenecef
firy ot judging for themselves.
N. B. Iu future ©o at-tentien will be paid to ths
feif flattering advertiiemcnts cf Mr G.
Any person withing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will pieafe apply to Geo. Ruttkr and
Co. Norris' Court, or Hexrv Frailey, Gcrmae
town. §(>*' may 8.
TO HE RENTED,
To a Small Genteel Family.
A Pleasant House in Dock-street, near Front
fire«t— Apply at No. icc South Second-
Vtrtet. § may Ty
Cavalry Academy Philadelphia.
'""I" 1 SWANN, Refpedlfuily informs the dif-
X • ferent troops of Light Horse in this city
and county that he is ready to engage with fhetn
to discipline them/elves and HorJtt agreeable to
the ftrifteft rules of art ; his manege, open ride %
Leaping Barr, Stables &c. &c. are in complete
order.
The terms will be exceeding low. Should a
large number offer, the charge to each individua
will be a mere nothing, though the quantity
may make it worth his attention, which will at
all times ftri&ly be paid : and he flatters him
felf that such troops as he may have the honor
to inftrudt or superintend, will amply speak for
themselves, having proof for their evidence.
N. B. T. SIVANN has engaged the celebrat
ed Pruftan Huz.ar, Lewis D. Gvajfe, to teach
the use of the Broad Sword and fin all arms, on
easy terms, either by the week, month or quar
ter.
may 21 dst
Very Great Bargains,
CONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Houfckeepers to make
purchase of Enquire of
Thomas Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-Jlreet•
may 17 §
For Sale,
The cargoofthebrig American from Laguira,
CONSI STING OF
Caraccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. 1 iz, South Fourth Street,
april a 3 $
FOR SALE,
THE whole or ons half of a PLANTATION"
on the river Delaware, between Burlmgton
and Cordenton (two miles from the latter), con
taining about 4CO acres ; 60 of which are bottom
moadow, and 100 wood land ; there are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (cxclufive of mea
dow) but will exceed 5c the next ; and any quan
tity of manure may be had for the upland from the
meacow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hogftieads of excellent cider; a dwelling
houfewith a barn, stable, granary and other ne
ceflary buil ings go with one part in cafe of a di
vision ; on the other are no improvements, but has
one of the most elegant situations for a house to be
seen on the river. The land is of goed quaiity,
suit able for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
to market by land or water. For terms apply to
the owner on the prcmifes.
Thomas St- John,
May 5 eodtf
FOR SALE.
SE.VERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made to suit the purchafcrs.—
These situations are conlidered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city*
and the road known to be. fafe and good at all'
feaforis of the year. The titfe indisputable—A.
plan of the grounds is in the hands of the fub
feriber, *ho will make known the ternrw on ap
plication to him at his office No. 124 Soutik
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER:
may 2- _;tawtf
Cedar Posts, Rails and Shingles
FOR SALE.
will be delivered to anyplace in Mary
land, Perinfylvania, New-Jerfiey, or New-
York, where boats dr.-.wing fix 'eut water can go*
lrom this place. It will often suit the feller to
receive in return corn, provisions, wet or dry
goods. Letters directed to the fubferiber at this
place, and put into any pofl office in the United
States, will be regularly received and carefully at
tended to. Thole who wifa to central in Phila
delphia, will pieafe to apply to Gideon Hill
WfiLL3, No. 135, Market-ftree.t. The fubferiber
is desirous of contra&ing with feme responsible
perfen in Philadelphia, to receive and difpofeof for
him, on corcmiflion, a quantity of two feet Shin-,
gles, for home use, and of two feet and eighteen
inches, for exportation.
William Hill Wells,
Dagfljorongh, Hate of Delaware,
april 38, saw 4*