# tSttltefc §btsLitß 9 A *» Philadelphia IkMy ASveriia&i
By John Warb Fenno, N° 119 Cbefnut Street.
NuMBEt 1 955*3
cy The price rf this Gazette is
dollars per annum to Subscri
bers rejiding in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for encloftng and directing;
andunlefs fomzperfon in this city will
become answerable for the fubferip
tion, it must be paid Six Months in
advance*.
For Sale,
PACKET,
.HuLixci Cowhhthwait, Master,
BURTHF.H, about 1,500 barrels, a go»d strong
Ship_has excellent aeoommodationsfor paliengers,
may be sent tofea with small expetice. She is lay
ing at Mifflin's wharf, for further particular en
quire of
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith & Ridgway.
novembcr t6 S ,Jt
trT Said (hip, if not fold on, or before the ?th
of D• e .mber, iuft. will on that day. in the evening,
be offered lor sale by public aadinn, at the mer
ehants's codec haufe.
Smith H RiJgioay,
JJaac Harvry, jun.
dec, 3.
Jamaica Rum.
THE CARGO,
Of the (hip GHARI.ES, Captain Salter,
Fri m the North Ci'.e of Ja ialCa,
Near 200 hhds. of fine high proof
JAMAICA RUM,
Nowl.ardinr a: South thvut Wharf.
PETER BLIGHT.
c HE S '
Captain S/Utek,
Coppered, mount twelve 6 pounders and thiry
five men—returns immaiatcljr to Jamaica, for
Passage apply as at»ve.
dec \1 dim
For FREIGHT or CHARTER,
to any part of EUROPE,
The Swedish Snow
Maria,
Hans Olof Koch', commamder.
A remarkably good vessel, about IIC tons bur
then. A freight to Cadiz, or auy part of the
Mediterranean would be preferred. Enquire of the
y-jnEjafe* on beard at Vitic-Strect Wharf-
For Sale.
r T , HE Susseaiaaa, intending to decline the
X DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Inftrtiments, &^ f
The (bop is elegant, commodious, and fuliici
ently known for che extensive buiincfs < one io the
wholesale and retail line ; the situation equal to
any in the city, being at the cui ncr of Walnut and
Seeond streets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, at will best suit the purchaser.
Th« terms may beknown, by applying to
james moore, jun.
Wlo has For Sale,
Well calculated for the riv^^^^^^™^
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an easy draught of water, rigging ir
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber bufiaefs
0- All persons indebted to the late firm (A I p
GMtbvme 13" BaU-win, IV. B Goldlbwit, GWu- ■
tbvit W Aftorr, or the fuhfenher, are ctmeftly "
requested to make speedy payment to *
JAMES MOORE, jun. "
august j ,
- * ai
BOSTON BEEF,
200 Barrel* in Shipping Order. i
rOR sale BY *
r JOHN SKtRIN,
No. 96, Aortb Fromjlreet.
• wants to Charter, Cc
A G °ol> STOUT VESSEL, i
ab ° Ut 300 Tons burth en- tar
HAS ALSO fOR SALL, ll a
40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, j years old. a,,<
nov 21 . fev
m4t
FOR wTlmington w -
H T H.c A»O1. I N *, v ' Ne
the sHif b x
COMMERCE,
£V»r Captain Wood, I
X . V|I ' L, akein freight on very mo- fiot
derate terms, and fail about the nea
at J
Willings Jif Francis, "7
Peiin Street.
r»ovcniner
... ATjgustus Tricke;
Woollen Draper 6? Men's Mercer
And ha, confantlj f„r file a general a f tr ,.
f i '?,S! c Londo " '^P er,i »'= Brnd
the I
V'cft Patterns of si! kinds <•'
«ho"falJ "d" I'™' in tht Une m",
rfec.mbcr to ' JOH
PHILADE LPHI A: SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 22, *798.
For Neiv-York Boston.
cri- The new aiuffaft failing Sloop
dd- PR tSI DENT-PACKET,
oh J AH ** Bracirtt, master.
BR! WlLt (*1 with allconveqicntfpeed—For freight
t/ill OT P»^ a S e apply t° the nuller on board, lying at
Chefnut-ftreet Wharf.
r 'p- WHO HAS FOR SALE,
tn On board said Sloop,
30 bbls. of cod-oil fineft quality
20 do. of herring ard shad
Few half do. mackrae!
A small quantity of fmoaked herring
60 bbls. of w inter pears
• rji 5000 bunches of onions
' 4COO lbs. of txcellcnt thecfe,
ifter, Philadelphia, d, c. ia.
rong " ~~ZT~
Ship Broker's Office,
at
And Commiflim Store,
ling, No. 1:9, South front Strfft,
Tlcr " Next door to she Ouftom House.
""T ''HE Subfiriber, encouraged oy the advice of
X his friends, oft'ers his l'ervice to the public
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. He propos
es to buy and fell veflels and every relat-
ing thereto—a (lift matters of vtflels and others
in entering and clearing at the Cnltom-Houfe,
procuring and Ihippiug freight, fettling liifur
ance and all rther mercantile accounts, and j
have on hand the DeceflTary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign language* translated, and in
formation given in general mercantile matters,
jof —From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of buiincfs he hopes to be ufe
tul to thofc who please to favor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERY. 1
" novembcr tq
Nicklin & Griffith,
, HAVE FOR SALE,
Sail Cloth by the bale, or piece,
(No. 1 &'8)
f or One bale of feaming-twine
Copper in Iheets, from 14 by 48 to 48 by 60
j inches
Two tubs raised capper flill bottoms
Queent' ware, assorted in crates ,
London porter in bottles, contained in cases
Empty port-wine bottles
Yeliow ochre in calks
Cochineal in ferons
ludigo in do. &. casks
3 j cafei and trbnks of muslins, ginghams, dimi
ties, mufllnet6 andpullicat handkerchiefs, in
r ' small a/Torced packages, calculated for the
nr _ Weft-India market
t h e II trunks printed callteoes
t h e 4 bales caflimere*, aflorted
1 do. coarse woolens
'— ftldJtf.vlejtf a wine
Englifli nails la calks, averted,
The Brig
E A M A Z O N,
FOR SALI OR CHARTER.
U December , 9 . m w . & f a .,f
ci- DRIED PEACHES?
to barrels
114 ] Demijohns
he Claret ~i
it. Porter, and I bottles.
Port Wine J
And Corks in Bales—For sale by
BENJ. W. MORRIS.
. Dec - 20 ' eo6t
ROCKET Books, for the year 1799*
THIS DAT w AS PUBLISHED,
n, Br WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
ly N°» *7» South S>condrflrtret.
in THE AMERICAN LADIES
, POCKET-BOOK;
fs TOR The rt.AR 1795.
sH u E ™ belUfl "d w,th "'niature J.keneffes of the
PfCdent of the Us.ted States and General Waft,
ington ; containing an Almanack, ruled ra«s for
®Maor»»dunis, and for an account of monies r«-
ceivcd, paid or lent, for every day in the y«ar •
new count,y dances, rmfcellaneous pjeee. in prose'
- ImuUMu'T 3 m:lrke! " l e «d other
ALSO,
THE GENTLEMAN', ANNUAI
POCKET REMEMBRANCER,
FOR THE TEAR Ijkn. '
■ Embelliflißj with the sams miniature likenefles.
? a " almanack, ruled pages for memoran
dums and a ca(h account, a lift ef the numbers of
to. grel tne departments of Stare," War, Navv
reafury and Judiciary, with an account of what B
immaterial in each; the federal courts of law
Mint e.,abl,foment, heads of all the moll impor- -
tant iSk, of last fcfiion of Congress, a lift of the
itarop Jut.e,, of duties payable 01, goods imported .
and nn domett* articles, a lift of the British v \
Th j'" r . lblCS ' a " d othtr interefling matter.
Ihe above books ate neatly bound in red leather sol
*«h tucks aad pockets. rcu icatner
NcwY«rt° h n G r Hil !' Bjl£imor2 ' SomerviJle,
bvTh, • ey au<l WllUr - Charleston; and M,
X h°°kfeller« in Boston. p!e
IVHERE ALSO MAT BE HAD, «
u , . [P rl « 12 I-i csnts.l '
Con n „ V m °" ' m P orta,,t »<*» 'he last fef.
neatl* , rtf "' P r, nted 111 a pocket file, and
W T v t Up ,n mirb l= 1
m«rrionts are«- *"1 1 goO<l aff ' or ' m < ! i" of fee
ary eoods nl Um ''unk*, paper and other station- ligl
dec ,0 P y '" g " rd§ ' h "' r " nd leather trunk,. Brt
W4W flip
R- i ua
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
" XTU -' T '"T.
n ESPEI rFULLY informs die Public that ,|
as ZT" l ° tMCh Lldi " ' hß -
tnthsa R
NOTICE. om
A LL person. indebted to the eftatc of James Frcl
n.r, 1 l° M / i 1 OK ' of ,he 'txiian Queen, Fourth S P al
tlw irC j ta niaM payment to
,K ° fc Wh ° h " e a "V<iemi«di Fir
tSSSS: ""
u ' 1J dim j),
FOR BREMEN.
•p v&Vfc. THE CBIG
■ :T ' SPECULA7ION,
ARXN'D WIETINC, U.IITU •
i h t N'OW h y ; I4f „ Henry Pratt', „h«f, th«, fir*
gat "='»» >r c < t-fce i. a Bremen bottom ; two
hundred and twenty tons burthen ; will fail with
ail poiiible dispatch—For freight, or passage apply
PRATT W KINTZING,
no. 95, north WQter-Jireet.
Who have forftle, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
TIZ
, t Ticklenburghs Patrerbornes
Ozmbrigs Checks
Hessians Stripes
Brown rolls Slippers
Coff«» bags Camfericks
Platillas Twine
Brittinias Glass tumblers
Eftopailles Port wine
E, v-reas ala Morlaix Window glass
B elcHeld liner. Brimlkuie, & .
Dorolas
decern brr 13 th.fc.mß.jw
tlic FOR LIVERPOOL,
THE armed SHIP MOLLY,
' at " Burthen- 340 Tons;
,erS Itout w< 11-Joynd vefTel, She is now
jfti «|fej£3M rca , d y to her Csrgo, and will
ur- * on the firft opening river,
ind *'n t'.'ii- th« ot her Loading being already pro
ips. ( vidcj — lor Freight for the remainder, or Passage,
in- *pply to
:rs. NICKLIN & GRIFFITH,
nee dec. 13. r&th&s cf.
ife- . . .
' e ""i Massaclr.i~(tts District.
j L>Y virtue of a Warrant froni the honorcole John
ithe Biltri t of
pofed t? f le at AnSion, at the MarOial's Office in
Boston, on Tucfllay the firft day of Janvary n it,
at eleven o'clock : a certain Bex of Watihes, sav
ed from the wreck of the {hip Corona, stranded
at Cape Cod, and for which no claimant has ap-
peared—" said Box 6f Watches are to he fold for
the payment of Freight, and otler charg
es, and for the benefit of all concerned,—viz.
Tin Box 40 Silver Watches
p a f37 Gold ditta
J 4 Papers Trinkets
SAMUEL BRADFORD, marlial,
of Maflachafetts.
Dated at BoOon, ">
„j. cc - 6 S 17 dt» 4
in
hc REMOVAL.
George Dobson,
TNFORMS his friends and the Public ia general
9^°:^
the corner of Third Street, and is now opening
* **ry_*xret>five sflortment i 4
UK Y GOODS,
SUIT ABLE FOR THE PRESENT SEASON, '
WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEIVED,
Per the fliips William Penn, Amiable, and Jafte,
™ London, and per Chefapeak and Thomas
m Liverpool, and will b« fold low for calb,
or approved notes at a Ihort date, viz, ]
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and t
Caffimeees, fafhionable colours
Yorkftiire 7 4 do. and do.
Mixed and plain coatings
W.lch flannels
Kerfcy beav«r, for Spencers
Jeajinets and Tabby cords
Velvets atd velvctteens
Velverets and thickfetts 13
7i 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and jin«n checks I 3
7-8 and 4 4*« d tics tl
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts n
London chintz and chnKx furnitures v
Furniture cottons o
Do. dimities 1,
Purple and chintz (hawls
do. f (
r Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worsted hose !
r L O . niuflins of every description
Black aud white crape
; Tiffany and paper fans * ,1
! Hats alTorted in'fmail cases dt
r Umbrellas th
Peelings and fattins fu
Laces and edgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
Superfine French cambrick
Cambrick
Do. threads
Pulicat and Madras Handkerchiefs, E<
" n degant ajjortment of *'
Bruflels and Wilton Carpeting.
novfmbcr iy
TTmM /i?rr ~ X
V V ;n„ • P " d fa r. a PP re heiiding and iodg- *
folln ' a " r tiie "nitcd Stotes, the P rl
w';,:z d "-" ft- °f«
Meade All'e/T'' . feam , Jn ' fo ™"ly resided in to '
d hlii ' i<rht fretti com * c
e , high Cy "' about five - feet Di "' i»ch-
feet t\°r« a inch°T' " rd l i . nar y f « m *». about five lnc
•eet three inches h.gh, l,gj* h jir „ re . tic*
swarthy, about „ year, of age. aL? 7
feef'fi/wv' T-'V° rd " ,ary iMmw ' about 1
lioLw k." P ' IRed twen ty-tbree rears, it!
R?ou k t eTC ' lnd fwar,h r—Culve'n and 1
"row r,>are both natives of Philadelphia, and are
Quadra ,0 " be . cu, "; ciled b Y some of their ac
quaintancc in this city. -
Stephen Decatur, jn
Commamler of the Delaware TiH
, Sloop of War. Mal
The Subscribers have for /ale
Malaga Wine, in quarter caflss ' ? J
OM d,tt ;- in P > e '' Hhd » q«»ter casts Ic.
French Braiidy'" 0 ' L
Spanilb ditto, (not colored) ■
Medoe Claret, in Cases
Fir . fort Isinglass nten
I new Cable, 9 inches iO e
I ditto 1 a inches I ,
1 new Hawfcr, 7 inches. '°^
D , I lcril
Philips, Cramond Cc.
dec 17
3t
Just Arrived,
I* the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
jr now Janiipg at Walnut Street wharf,
' . j Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Briuiftonc.
Anaffortment of valuable DRUGS,
v ; t )j ci>N»i»Tinc or
pnly Opistn, Aloes, Cantharides, Campliire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar j &c. &c.
E(fences of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and flafks
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian lutcftrings
Satins'
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining 011 Hand,
St. Croix Sugars, .
Claret in cases
OldMadnira Wine of the firft qnelitv.
JAMES Y/.RD.
November 3 §
Bond tk Brooks,
Corner of Makkit ano Sixth st&xets,
have received,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hull,
A LARCE ANO GENERAL ASSORMENT Of
DRY GOODS,
Which they are no.w opening for sale, at the mod
low reduced prises, for calli or the usual credit.
will nnv 17
no- Old Madeira Wine.
MADEIRA WINE,
n strong iron bnund Hambro' casks, for
1 ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
fr'ov- 30- eodtf
> h » JAMAICA RUM,
' " A Cargo now landing at South Jlreet wharf,
~n FOR SALE BY
xr, PETER SLIGHT,
JV- Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
) e( j WHO ALSO OrrXRS FOR SALE,
jp. BP ANDY, ill and 4th proof
p or M. Jeiraand Port WINES, &c. &c.
re- Nov- 1. dtf
NOTICE,
PURSUANT to a Resolve of the of
fruftecs of Washington Academy, in Som
erfetcounty, MarylaT«d, authorising William
Polk, efqr. majors Samuel Wilson, aid
William Jonej, Members of fai i Board, to
procure a principal teacher for said Academy.—
NOTICE i» here, y given, that \ gentleman quali
fied to teach the Greek and Latin Languages, Geo-'
and the Mathematics, and forh other
branches of Literature as it is customary to teach
in such Schools, will meet with liberal encourage
ment and it is presumed will be well
e* in taking charge of this Academy. The build-
i"? } s an< i accomodate at least sixty
lg }6l Ar^ft«e[ < tV^^w,Bd WD " nni * ,KO "
m the Navy ricpirrrDent, W3Tnur r^* C £2££ l £l
|>hia t or to cither of the three gentlemen above
y, -mentioned, near Princcts Anne, Maryland.
»7 5
w A Jf T E DT"
ti, Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly 1
Lady, in a refpedtable private fatnilv, where '
[i there are no ehildren. Enquire at thii'office '
dtc * d m ,
Dobbin, {
BOOT & SHOEMAKER.
T> ESPEC TFULLY informs his Friends and C
, AV PuWic in general that lie carries on his -
bulinefs at No 99 South Second-Jiteet, ncarlv op- j
1 P oS '< the Merchants CoTee house wh.re 'gen
tlemen maybe fnpplied in the neatest and bed
manner he affaires ,'liofe who may plcafe to fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion on his IVde (hall be wanting to render
hint worthy of their encouragement. /
N. B. Orders received will be pumflually at
tended to. ir
november 5 (h
, "Notice. ~ u
, A I ' l ' perfont who have any demands against
L\. the estate of the late William Cljj-ton,
deceafed,and who have notjlreadv produced their
their accounts, arc requcft«.d to fend them to the P
fubferiber at no 171, north Second street
Elizabeth Tucker, Ad^*
Philadelphia, fiqv. a 9, 179 8 m&th4W
~JOHN SHIELDS, '
broker,
Embraces this *p;>artuxhy to prtfent his tbanks
to his fetlovj-citizens for their pttjl favors
anJ acquaints them that he is returned from
Cnefnut-HrU, to his former refidenct, the
House AO. t2 Ckefaut between Front
and Second-flreet,
TTTHKRE he helds himfelf readv to exeeute
> V their commands in ev«r\- branch of his
proteffion, trusting that from a residence id this :
city ot 35 ) ears iie.has it in his power to render
them eflentia.l ferviee, a (Turing them that his 11
commilfion /hall be as l«w as any in Town.
Lotts, Lands, Houses, VefTels, Certificates a
of every defcnption and BNIs of K*change, ~
bought and fold, thedocketts carefully exam
ined and clear titles made upon th« ftbrteft no- TJ
tice, by the public's h>imMs servant, A
. 7»hg Shields. F
Cr Good negotiable Notes difcomted COD ,
at a low premium. the
noveml,tr 7 3 awtf Suft
FOR SALE, H"
A Tan-Yard, with about thirty two acres of J* hc
dx. Land, at Rock-Run, on the Head of the °
THe water .f Sufqnehannah, in Harford countv ce<l
Maryland, wiereon is lunk feventv-five Vats » ''oul
Sto.e Mill and Tan House, with conveniences'^
Water and other necessaries for an euenfirc Yard a M
a Dwelling-Hotfe, Kitchen and divers »ther ufeful
baddmp is m&ti th.reon, some of the land, in ''"S 1
lots well improved, a good Herring Fishery on the
shore. Theimpioving Town of Havre de Grace ,J
is about fix miles distant and vessels eoming dawn /TT
Ihe River, pass dole by the premises. Aconv
ment fitaanon to get B.rk, a stock of which with
the .tenfih for and all the hido in he , T1
7' flfic W " h tb ' YaH - Fnr tcr «" applv th "
to John Wilf.n, near Harford Town, or the Sub'- °" £ '
fcriber on th« prcmifcs. on IV
IS NAC WILSON, Elcv '
1 lfn mo. 14th
mwjw d
NOTICE.
and , r
if" THI COPARTNE«JBIPO?
Hudson & yorke;
i* thie daydilTolved by mutual con/ent. All per* •
-JO, indebted, to said <srti) are to make
immediate payment— a?* 4 , those whn have any dfc,
:nna, ma "f * * fe re *l uerte<l ,u present them fiw fuitfctnenf
to WIIAIAM HUDSON,Mho it duly authorifsi
to adjust the fame.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
'SAMUEL YORKK.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
NO. 54, NORT ■ fIONT'STHtI,
Ha&-for sale on the usual terms, a very
extenlive aflWtmcnt of
DRY QOODS.
'<>• ,w.
FOR SALE -
By the Sub/cribers,
ON VtRY LOW TtlKI
§_ WAX CANDLES,
* 'Cinioii jßAiiir,
Either by the {ingle box of ijlbs. or by thr quan
s, tity.
\W tilings is" Francis.
'er- nov. 24
TT6~TTc~E7~ 7
A LL PerHsns indebted to the Estate of
XX tor Hugh Hodg», dereal'ed, are ren».-, «
noil u, make immediate payment—and >' av'
. demands against the Estate are del-red to'a*:> ,r"
* ticate and j»efent them to.
MARIA HODGF., adminifiratrrx,
SAMUEL UODGUEN, ad™fr 3i . r .
I)OV 20
for Notice is Hereby CSiveu,
r application wi'.l fc_- mido a, h. Ttei.
A fury of the United Slates. for rUe renewal ..f
- the Allowing certificates ef Funded Debt, ftand
in«j in the naaie ot Robert Whitwortk, of Cl*el!ea
London, thffaid Certificates having been forward
«r/, ed by theft,, Ellice, Htfvcy, from L ,ndp,.Lr
New-York, captured by the I rench, endfoupof*d
r , to be loft. '
v 1 N0 '0V 437, 6 Pcr Ccß t' Stock, dsted New-
York, 18th April, 1796, Ur Dollrus M Bt 4-
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
18th April 1796, for doHars 400.
I SAMUEL MILBANK.
novemlier 18 d6w
of Notice is hereby Given,
, M That application will be made at the
II d ® an * ,? f the Un »cd Slates for the renewal ot
to . , lloiwn e "rtificites of Bank flock, ftaadimr
_ in the name of Hodgfon Atkinlon of London,
ali- W(Te f«om on board the Swallow Pac-
ket - "Pt captured by the French, and all
her P" 1 " 0 ' Concerted are ddired to take notice.
ach N(> * 2 4 7 4> issued in lieu of No. 1891,
g C . 1892, 5662 and for 4 shares.
lat- No. 3020, iflued in lien ot iiocc, and
110 S?> f° r 3 ft ares.—7 flares.
tty THOMAS M-EUEN & Co.
nov - »» d 3 m
!5U & RlCHarusmith,*
>ve Xa from the countrr to
where they hsve for sale, as Stolii'a'lJ—
_ nefal aflortment of European and Eaft-lndia g '"
DRT GOODS ;
•Jy mod ot which have now arrived and arr 1„„J
- Sr^SSi*""
prices for calh or credit,as tkey Ca. be had e£
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS a
,d [ °fcV° i C soW b >' the only. '
is Pbiladeliihu, Not. , 7q g. r dtf
p-1 English wrought NaiJsi "
a" ImforUd in ,hf Molly and Diana, from
n UVUfOOI.
:r , Cafks of Nails,
CONsm-mG rf gd> J;
f "
ZSSfo* l Ild ,' ind lod ' finedrawn
inarps alio », 3, 4j 11) d 6 f
- tuck. l<tupper nails fheathiag nadg,
I D "" ,ALI »*,
Robert Denifon, junr.
r n - 11 7 Market street.
e For Sale,at the Stores ol the"Subl
fcriber*, on Walnut fireet Wharf
«9jcaik. of nails aborted '
" ?■> raft #f m " " n , VJ<i - from N °- 'to 8
S3 casks yellow ochre
'5 tierce, bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz eack
London particular )
r India market ( Madeira Wine,
l evnffedo. in hogftead.and pru
Old Port do. in hhds. VV
Empty-Claret bottle.
6 ?(T* Dimkies, Muflinetj
aborted for the Wofl-ladia market
Writ J, Jf, ,* " ble "Dd to coils of cordage
Writing fiatw, uik stands and pre/Tes
a® puncheoug Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twice
160 bundle* (heathing paper
april 7 NicUm & Gr&th
—l 7 ■ tuth&f.tf
TO BE SOLD,
PURSUANT to the !aft will and testa mvt as
t>i •*' T »-deeeafed, a valuable
Plantation & Traft of Land
containing one hundred and feventv '
the Teflator-s late refidenee. tn K^l'
Sufquehanna Hundred, Ceocil county Marvland
about three nnle, irom the tide-water S '
hanna,and at a contempt dUlance W f uf l ue :
plae.s of ivorfliip „f Friends i^Weanl"
On the prernifus are a Tan var I rein ';
ces belonging thereto in ,„„7 ' • d foDV """>-
! l ouf., (table, orchard
with I lor 15 acres nfgoorf wa tcr tnt *»
a fufficient proportion ofraluable timl Tu "
Fer term, apply «„ rh( . f, Wcrih . ; " w
tingham, about 3 miles from the r rem,fc,. NOt "
_ THOMAS WARING, Ewcutor
lath mo. nth, 1798 ' i -* t '- ulo r
Insurance Company of tie state of Ptnnlyi.
on Monday the fourteenth in Office
Eleven O'clock 0t i anuar T "
dec. JAMES S " COX - Pf'f'-ient.
*'4-J *
[Volume XiV.Unit*d Statu, ") -
Prnnfylvania Diflriift j
NOTICfi is hereby Riven that in purfuanee o' a
writ to me direSed, from the HonorabL
Ricuabd Perms, Esq. Judge of the Oiflria
Court of the United States in and for the Penn
fylvama DiftriA, will be eipofed to public sale
V No. It 7 Safifrai ftreeton Vfonday the 14th
day of December instant, at it o'clock at noon,
2 riogflieads and
2 Barrels of Spirits.
The fame having been libelled against, prefecuted
and cOndemr ! so feited i-i the said Court.
William nichols,
Mar dial*
Marftals Office, Dec. 15th, 1798.
- the forms,
AS prescribed by theCommiffiosers of Penn
sylvania, for the return of DWELLING
HOUSES, LANDS and SLAVES, may be
had at
Joseph & James Cruckshank's,
No. 87, Market Street.
Dee. *0
4 Tost
A BUNCH OF KE YS,
RETURN them to No. 7, South Fourth
Street, and be rewarded.
Dec. 20 dtf
Dele ware Canal.
THS Stockholders are hereby netified, that the
Election for Prefiiicnt and Managers, for the
ensuing year, will lie field at the Company's Offic.,
on the firft (scout! day in January nut, at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
Susquehanna & Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
Ele&on for President and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will beheld at the Ce npany's Office, on
the flrft second day in January next at ten o'alock
A.M.
GEO. WORRALL, fec'y
to Delaware & Schuylkill Canal Company.
dee 19 etc
Book-K lping.
Wants a Place,
IN AN ELIGIBLE
ACCO MPTING-HOUSE or OFFICE,
A PERSON that Writes well, is a Ready Reck
oner,-a praitical Book Keeper, and can be
well recommended, a line, (or personal applica
tion) dirc&cd t« M. M, No. 71, North Scventh
ftrect, will be duly attended to.
N. B- Books closed, ana new Accompts open
ed, Partßtrlhip Accomptsadjufted, orauy buGnefs
in the Book-Keeping line, done at.the above place,
or abroad of Evenings.
dec 17 5
Genteel Boarding £s* Lodgirg.
SEPAR \TE and ready firnifhcd apartments
with genteel Boarding and Lodging for the ae
commodaiion of four Gentlemen (wiih their Ladies,
if required) may be had at No. 163, Arch Si recti
Dec. >4 *d6t
i'o be hold,
The time of a flout healthy Negro Lad, aged
about 17 year.«, and bound to serve until ti ;
he is honest, underllan s the usual buflnefs of a
familj', and has bee* accustomed to wait on
table—Apply to
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch street.
December 19 d6t
FLOUR, FOR S aLE~~
DELIVERABLE at N fw -Caftle or Port
u ~,( m[| ~ n 1 11 n
dfc 19 d -» w
For sale by the fubferibers,
A lIV BALKS OF
WOOLENS,
Containing Cloths & Blankets,
150 bales Bengal muflius
10 do. Madras handkerchiefs, elegant pat
terns
201 pieces Rufln Iheeting
10 boxes umbrellas *
a quantity of caflia
30 tons Peterftmrg clean hemp
25 pipes, 3 years old, finelk particular Ma
deira wine
a quantity of ftieathins copper
Mordecai Lewis.
Nov. rt
jrishlj^lms,
4-4 and 7-Bth White Linens well-.
affo etd j Enritied
3-4 Brown ditt# ditto to the
V 4 Irilh Checques fyitable for the | Drawback.
Weft India Market. J.
FOR SALE,
On reasonable ternas—by the Box of' Bale,
By G.imsib & Helmuts,
No. 148, South second-llreet.
dec .Vav tt
No. 128,
The fouth-cajt corner of Market and Fouth
Jlreels,
JACOB COX,
HAS just receired by the late arrivals from
Europe, a large, general and elegant it
fortmeut of "the mod
Falhionable Merchandize,
(in the gentlemen's line)— The whole of which
will be cilpofed of, wholesale and retail, at re
duced prices forcafii.
dec. 19 aawtf
TO HE LET,
ANF. AT, convenient two-story frame HOUSE
and BAKE-HOUSE,fituated in south Feurth
ftreet,below German ftreet—Thehoufe is incom
plete order, having two roams on a floor, with a
fpaciotss garret; the lot is 19 f-a feet fiont en
Fourth street, and 111 I- a feet deep.
Apply to
CHRISTIAN BETZ,
no I \S- Mulberry street.
N B —As the property belongs to orphan chil
dren, it is espeilcd that good security will be given
lor the rent.
Philadelphia, december IT, 1798
John J. Parry,
CLOCK tsr WATCHMAKER,
HAS again opened at bis usual Stand, No. 38,
South Secondjtreet —where he bat for Sale,
A VAtIITT or '
Excellent Gold & Silver Watches,
AND A »IW
Eight Day Cclocks,
Which will be warranted to give fat'ufaSion.
An assortment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains. Seals and Keys.
All kinds of Clock and H'atcb work done with
particular attention as heretofore.
0- An Apprea ice wanted.
r.o'jember 11 m.W^ffiv.
Ready Furntfaed apartments.
TO LET,REAfcY FURNISHED,
A FRONT Parlour ar.d Tour chambers, with
the use of a Kitchen and Cellar, in a
plcafant »art of Arch ftreit ; enquire at the office
of thisG.-izetts.
N. B. —Hh the furniture is all n«w, it precludes
any apprehension ot contagion from the late pie
vailing fever,
december 11 eod.lt
WTICE.
SAMUEL RICHARDET, informs the Gentle
men Subscribers, that the E X C H A N G t
is opened for their recep.ion; and the CITY
T A rE R N, for Gentlemen and Travellers
Last Spring added an. addition of twelve Bed
Chambers to the fide building, which makes it
perfectly convenient.
■ovember 6 thaw
A capital lland for Bulinefs.
TO BE RENTED,
AND POSSESSION GIVEN,
On the %th day of February.
THE commodious Four Story Brick House on
the South fide of Market, near Watcr
ftreet, at prelcnt occupied as a Tavern, by Tho
mas Palmer. For terms, Enquire at the office
of this Gazette.
dec 5 tawtf
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Will re-commence drawing, on Monday,
the flu of January next, and con
tinue untilfinifhed.
lICKETS to be had Eight Dollars each, at
WILLIAM BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Broken office, No. 64 South Second-street,
where cheek books are loept for registering r.nd
examination of Tickets in the above, City of
Waftington and Patterfon Lotteiies, &c.
Stat* or th» Wheii,
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000
*ji ve ' 4>ocs ao,ooo
* wo *,°°o 4,000
i, wo 1,000 4,000
Ten 500 5,00®
Twenty-ieven joo J>4oo
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—The Lottery is
more than two thirds drawn and above lj,ooo
dollars richer than at the commencement.
£? Note, the business of a Broker duly at
tended to in all its branches. tu.fr.
Nov. 9-
Dancing School.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his rsf
pe&fsl compliments to the public : takes
the liberty of informing them, that at the requelt
of many of his former employers, he will open
his School, at his Ball Room, in Fourth, bet
ween Chefnutand Walnut streets, on the firft Mon
day of Dteember—For Yeung Ladies at ten
o'clock in the morning—and for Gentlemen, at
fix in tke evenings of Mondays, Wednesdays and
Fridays.
Nov. 18 eoim
Hats Ssf Holiery.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT HIS STORE,
No. 134, Market Street,
HAS JUST OPENED, in addition to his for
mer stock, a very extensive alTortment of
Men's, Women's, and Children's Hats, and all
kinda of Stockings—particularly a quantity of A
berdeen knit Hose, suitable for the present season
nov. 21 ~ ' - - -- -
" Notice is hereby Lviven,
1-ri A 1 «ppncition will be made at the Trea
sury of the United States for the renewal
of Ae following certificates of Six per Cents,
funded debt—{landing in the name >f Robert
Wilftu of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the
service of th« honorable United Company of
merchants of England trading to the East-In
dies, which were loft from on board the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New
York. Dolls. Cts.
No 10,444, Reg- office 14th Dec.
»7»3> one certificate for 33
No 10,478, Heg office 17th Dee.
J 793, one certificate for 1959 50
Elli/fon & John Perot.
nov 13 eod6w
This Day Publijhed t
And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No.
119 Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price l-ith of a Dollar,)
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in comnennnration of the anni
versary of American Independeace.
By Jouah s>yrncr.
'• The inroads upon oyr public liberty, call 1
for reparation—The wrongs we have fuiiaiiied,
call for—Justice. That Repiration and that
Juftiee, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit, |
and Firmness■ But to divide and conquer was '
the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Eden, |
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
ple of all his votaries from that period to the
present."
Observations on the Boston Port-Bill, l&t.p. 78
by the late J. £un.
august it
This Day is Published,
AND FOR SAL BBYJ. ft N NO, I ig,CniSNUT-|1 KBIT
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and prefeat state of 1
French aggrelfion, with a (ketch of the infamous '
attempts te degrade (he Government of the United 1
States, and some reflections on the late proceedings
•n Congress ; written the last of April in the pre 1
sent year, by a Member of the House of Reprefen
tativs. $ june 11
Printing Work,
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
At the Office of the Gaiette of the
United States,
OS. '3- dtf.
notice.
PURSUANT to the last will and testament
of Lindsay Coats, Eiq. deceased, will
be fold by Public Vendue, on Thursday, the
third day of January next, at ten o'clock in
the forenoon, at the h ule of Thomas Lowry,
(fignof the Bird in Hand) in Upper Merion
low nfhip, Montgomery crunty
A valuable Grift Mill,
*ND A BOUT
Twenty-five acres of Land,
Situate in the iiid township, fevcral acres of
which are meadow, and the greater part of the
remainder wood land.—The conditions of sale
will be made known by
RACHEL COATS, Executrix.
*• nth.wia.3t
NOTICE.
ON or about the 13th last November,there ivi
landed from on board 4 flocp or schooner,
on Race Itreet wharf, a quantity of Plaflsr-Paris
I'he owner is defirej to pay wharfige an 1 take it
away, otherwise it will b« fold at vjndue on fai.!
wharf for the fame on Saturday, January 5, 1
HARVEY & DAVIS,
dec. 21 3awtTy*
NOTICE.
THE Public are cautioned not to trtfft any of
the people belonging to the Swedilh Snow Maria,
on my account.
Hans Olof Kock, master.
dec %<) J
70 hhds. Santa Cruz Sugar
OF excellent quality, (in Stores of John Ni.x4n,cfq,
and Co.) A qu:-iitity of
SAIL CANVASS,
and a Box of Maje, (orfale, by
STEPHEN KINGSTON-,
ec ftod3t
UtSIAICT Of PtiNAitrLVANIAtTO IVIT
BE IT REMEMBERED,
<***» THAT on the tenth day
L. S.a of December, in the twenty third
year of the Independence of the U-
nited States »f America, JOHN
LAMBERT of the said Diftrift, hath deposited in
this office the title of a book, the right whereof he
claims as author in the words following, to wit:
" A Bi"rt and praftical Essay on Farming ; be
" ii:g the experience ef a firmer of about sixty
" years of age, near forty years of which were
spent in Engiauci, EfTex county, on land where
" farming is done in the grcateft perfection,
" and near seven ye-rs on three hundicd and
" twenty acres ot worn-out land in Pcttfgrove and
" ALoway creek, in Saiera, county Wed-Jerky—
" Shewing the means whereby these worn-out
" lands may be improved, and that ths means are
" in the power r.f alroofl every farmer."
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of
the United States, intituled " An aft for
the encouragement of learning, by securing
the copies of maps, charts and book? to the
au * and proprietors of fueh copies du
r w .c terms therein mentioned." *
D. CALDWI LL.
Clerk of the Dtflrift of Pennfjlvania.
Ec - '3 iaw4w
AN ACT,
Limiting the time within which claims against
the United States, for credits on the bonks of
the Pie<fury, may be prelented tor allowance
BE it enaßed by the Senate and Hou/e of Re
prejcn'.axi-vti of the United Statei of Ameri
ca, in Ctngreft .iffembled, That all credits on
the books of the freafury of the United Staaes,
for tranfaftions during the late war, which,
according to the course of the Treasury have
hitherto been discharged by ifluing certificates
of regiflered debt, (hall be forever barred and
precluded from settlement or allowance, snlefs
claimed by the proper creditors, or their legal
representatives, on or before the firft day of
March, in the year < ne thousand seven hundred
and ninety-nine. And the Secretary of the
Treasury is hereby required to cause this Ask to
be publilhed in one or more of the public papers
of each state.
(Signed, JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speilcer ot the H»nfe of Representatives.
THEODORE SEDGWICK,
President of the Senate. Pro. Tem.
Approved July 9, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
December 13. x w t jft lVa r.
ccdaH 1 mmrv
NOTICE IS hcbjebv j ■ ■ -
tue of an aft, paflTedduring the prafent fef-
Gon ml Congress, so much of the aft entituled
" An Aft making further provision for the sup
" port of public credit, and for the redemption
" of the public debt"—pafied the third day of
March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety
five, as bars front settlement or allowance,
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and'
final settlement Certificates, and Indents of In
ferefts, is suspended until the twelfth day oj
June, which will be in the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety nini.
That on die liquidation and settlement of the
said Certificates, and Indents of Interest, at the
Treasury, the Creditors will be entitled to receive
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stock equal
to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
ages of interest due on their said Certificates, prior
to the firft day of January feven
hundred and ninety one.
That the principal sums of the said Loan Office
and final settlement Certificates, with the interest
thereon, since the firft day of January, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety one, will be dis
charged after l.quidation at the Treasury, by the
payment of interest and reimbursement of princi
pal, equal to the sums which would have been
pa,able thereor, if the said Certificates had been
fubfebed, pursuant to the Aft, making provision
for the debts of the United States, contracted dar
ing the late war, and by the payment of other
fume equal to the market v.-Jue of the remaining
Stock, which wauld have been created by such
fubfcnption. as aforefaid, which market value will
be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafurv. <
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
junelg Sectary,/ , bt
Bank of the United States
November 19, 1778.
notice, 1
T H UnitL°<! CKHOL w RS 0f the Bank of the '
.r; , f I are lnformcd . that according to 1
the S.atutc of Incorporation, a GeneralEleftion for <
twenty-five Dire&ors will be held at the Bank of 1
the United Stores, in the City of Philadelphia, on ,
th° forenoon'. * j2nUary "«• " 10 in
And pursuant to the eleventh feftion of the bye
laws, the Stockholders of the laid Bank are also <
notified to aflemble , n general meeting, at the (
fame place on Tuesday, the Bth of January next
at 6 o clock m the evening. '
o G ' Sim P J0 "> Cashier. ,
oecond Fundamental Article. 1
N«t more than three fourths ef theDireftoss in 1
r -° f PreCdent - be eiigihU ,
ffial beT r" 8 bUt the Di "«»r who .
; t,me of an elc * oB '
november 16 _
— —— —— . m tE
THI CREDITORS, ~ )
Of JOHN M'DONJLD,
A Or PHILADELPHIA. J
RE hereby notified, that application t* the ,
Phil £iT ot r Co T°!! Pl "'> tor the "°«Vof
Philadelphia— for the benetu of the ac> 0 , .u.
General A fTembly, »f the Commonwealth of Pan n
fc^K Pr ?^, mg ' h " ,he P" fon of • 1
(hall not be liable to impnfonment for debt, after
delivering up hi, estate lor the benefit of his credi- ,
m[ni j th . C dl>l ol A r ril > do
mini, 1798 ; and that the judges of said Court
have appointed WednTday, the fccond day of '
l?\ Ü b?£ X A- 1 hcinn g of ra,d John M'Dcnald '
and his Creditors, where ycu may attend. 1
JOHN WD ONALD ;
dee <9 _ ,
* fwed3t
dseis^tte»
PHILADELPHIA .
SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER at.
Concord, (n. a.) Dec. i.
On Saturday evening lafl, his Excellency
• Governor Oilman, and suite, arrived in
town from Exeter.
legislature.
On Monday, the committee from both
branches, waited on his Excellency the Gov
ernor, informing that a quorum of each was
present, and ready to receive his communi
cations. He assigned Tuesday at 12 o'clock
to meet the two Houi'es in the Representatives
Chamber.
Agreeably to appointment, on Tuesday at
12 o'clock, his Excellency, attended by the
Council, came in, ahd addrell'ed tiu- Senate
and House of lieprsfentatives in the following
SPEECH.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemen of the House of Representatives
SELECI ED by the citizens of the State,
and afiembled at this time agreeably to your
own determination, for the important pur
pose of promoting the general welfare ; it
must afford great fatisfattlon, that our fyl
tems both of State and National Government
are so well adapted to this desirable end.
To redress public grievances, if any such
there are, and to make laws calculated to ie
cure the bleifings of liberty and advance the
happiness of the people, must be a pleailng
employment.
The great degree of harmony and tran
quility, so apparent as it refpefts the internal
concerns of the State, must be highly grati
fying ; and if the welfare of the people re
quires an amendment to any of the laws now
in force, or that new laws (hould be made,
these circumftanccs riiuft be known to their
representatives.
United with other States by a Federal
compatt, for Certain purposes, our interests
are inseparably connected with that govern
ment, which is endeared to us by the highly
beneficial effects it has produced.
When we lee a foreign nation overturn- '
ing ancient systems of government, without !
any regard to their form : extending robbe- i
ry anddevaftation as far as their forces can j
reach ; when we fee them contemning all
moral and religious obligations ; despising
national compa&s j plundering our citizens
while in pursuit of lawful commerce ; in
sulting our government, and threatening us
with the fate of nations it has degraded and
destroyed ! At iuchatime as this, we fliould
highly prize the bleifings of good govern
ment, and determine with one voice and
mind, to support and defend our rights and
piivileges, against all hostile attempts what
ever.
Much of the bl6od and treasure of the
United States ot America, has been
themlelves is such manner as they fliould 1
chooft4—this great okj»<ft being gained, our
Tyftem of general government has been form
ed in as free a manner, and under circumftan- :
ces as favorable, perhaps more so, thaa ;
that of any government which ever existed
over such an extensive territory—lt is such a 1
fyft&m as the people have chosen—may be ]
altered when it lhall be found necessary—the 1
persons appointed to administer it, return to :
the class of citizens at short intervals, and
others are fele&ed in their places. What <
more can be desired ? If this is destroyed, ]
where (hall we look for a free government ? 4
While tlie French nation was apparently 1
pursuing meafuj-es for the promotion of lib- 1
erty, they had the good wiflaes at least, of a '
large proportion of the citizens of the Uni
ted States ; but, unfortunately for our coun- c
try, they have had much encouragement t
from the conduit of many citizens, when it c
leemed alraoft impossible that any one (hould
entertain an idea that the freedom of man !
was their obje£t—after they* had prostrated a
governments, once free, and tyrannized over c
the citizens—and after it had become appa- c
rent, that universal domination was their ob-
The conduft of those who rule over
thc Fretirh nation, has for a long time been .
nottue to our own: By their arts and intrigues
aided by the conduit of some of our own
citizens, our Government has been traduced ;
attempts have been made, and in some instan
ces succeeded, in exciting unreasonable iea- '
louues among the people, persuading them
that they have a separate interest from thole
whom they have eledted to administer the
Government—no service*, however wife, 0
faithful and dthnterefted, and however lorn, .
contmued, have been fullicient to iecure fcml t!
ot our bell citizens from calumny ; and some C
ot our own periodical publications feero to *
be prostituted to this purpose : I need only ?
attempts to abufc a WASH- J!
INGI ON, and an ADAMS !
Peace, on. honourable terms, is undoubt
edly the desire of all good citizens—the con- d
°£, th£ President, in fending three En- a
voys Extraordinary and Ministers Plempo- f:
tentiary to the French Republic, is full evi- a
dence ot his opinion on this fubjeft. Betore n
the in(lruft,ons given tjicfe Envoys were 8
made public, reports were circulated, that 11
the President had not a desire for peace ; and *
lufpicions wereexcited, that his"inftniftions
vere not calculated for that purpose : But n
when they became public, it was acknowled- n
gey the enemies his administration, that 1
these report, and suspicions were without
oundjtion. Tile mftrudtions are in the hands tl
?! C ? Ztns ' and ftou 'd be read bv all ; n
It is difficult to imagine how they could have '
"° r nC a Urt , e . r ' without deeply wounding the a
interest and independence of our country b
of rb. lr tra ? r t naryexertion ' liavin S fail = d 0
of the deli red effeft, it is no t easy to discern g
what more can be done ih this way-lS! t
- o
br «UT' f measures will undoubtcdlv t,
u ra^overn nK:ntas lUall n
apjiearbeft calculated f er that purpose; and r.
1 rejo.ee that the citizens of thi? st ate Ire
" I , so 7, e!! have givenso many Pro(>
by the official afts of -he Le K ifl atl fJ i
| otherwiie, of their firm adherence
- national Government, s T
nun ift rat ton, and determination to fupp , rc t
PrefumiHg that a Law rrt a M;n,- ntl
propertion of Taxes, will be paffedfh*
sent frflion ; and as it ufuallv • P rc "
fide-able time to determine th
and prepare the bill ; permit me
y mend an early attent.on to this fabied
" WHY ° f the Tr «fury win be
k ing an alteration in the Constitution of £
s General Government -also a letter ( . •
t p Xcdl "" y thc Governor of the SuTe of
t Connecticut, and a resolution of the LJ?
e Jature, of the fame purport £
e before you ; the fuhied ishiaM,,
I and l doubt not will be
Whatever b,lis you may think proper to nasa
will be attended to with candor ; znd h wi]
be highly pleafmg to me. to uh Uc with
m measures calculated to advance the wel
> tare of our common Country.
JOHN TATLOR OILMAN
State of New Hampshire, 1
c November 21th 1798. J
ANSWER
, Of the House ofSfpresenta tiv ex—preselued
to the Governor yesterday.
MAY IT PLEASEYOUR EXCF.ILEWV
Houf lT j 3 t th fati ' faaion > that the
HouL ot Representatives contemplate the
■ pleafmg employment affiled them by their
I confluents of correfting- the errors (ifany)
• in the exiftmg laws, passing new afts, £
• dieffing public grievances-, and adop
' other measures as are calculated to wrnetn
, ate the bleffinga of a free
it is with additional pleasure, that We rely
on your abilities* integrity and promptness,
I to aid and assist as in e fFe<ai„g these f '
tan* objects. 1
• Coming, as we do, from all parts of the
; State, and having the means of knowing tie
, Icntiments, it is with confidence we assure
; you, that but one opinion pervades the Sta'e
; respecting the measures of our Federal Go.
: vernmcnt that we are thoroughly perfuad, d
I the general Government has adopted, ai d
steadily p.urfued, every pacific meafu.e, cor.
liftent with the honorj dignity and feftiriiy
of an independent nation, to compromifc e:-
ifting differences with the French Republic •
and it is matter of regret and iadignatior,
that that Republic is yet opposed to the mcft
terms of reconciliation—that it
still continues to infnlt our Government
to trample on our rights—to invade and de
stroy our commerce—and insidiously propa
gate the falfe and dangerous idea, that the
Government and people of United America
are divided.—But be afTured, Sir, that tie
yf£tCOllf
dence, rely on the wisdom, intfegri'ty, vi" .
-fairce and firm ness of our National Govern
ment, to adopt every neceflary measure to
maintain and defend our dear-bought rights
and privileges: And that we and our Condi
tuents are ready to rally round the ftandaid
of our Government, and defend it at the ex
pence of our blood and treasure, against tl e
machinations and violence of a foreign power
aspiring to universal domination.
We lament, that so many instances have
occurred in this countiy, in whiqh periodical
publications have been the vehicles cf /lan
der and calumny against the guardians of its
rights ; and that any American should fce
so degenerate as to abuse and vilify an
" Adams, or a Washington."
A law for establishing a new proportion
of public taxes—and the exiting state of
the 1 reafury—are objects worthy of our
confide ration.
The resolutions of the Legi/lature of
Maflachuletta and Connecticut, are of such
an important nature, and come from faur
ces so refpe&able, as to merit, and shall re
ceive, our candid attention.
i ANSWER,
Of the Senate of New Hampjhire, to tht
Governor's Speech.
[Prefcnttd on lift.]
May it pltafe y*ur Excellency,
THE Senate of the state of New-Hamp-
Jhire, with particular pleasure meet your
Addrcfs at the opening of the present felfi
on of the Legillature.
Afftmbled for the pnrpofe of consulting
the common good of our constituents, we
contemplate with fatijfaftion the advantag
es we enjoy under a free government, to ren
der a people happy ; the effedU of which are
so apparent in our present internal tranqui
lity ami union.
While we view thc nation of France, un
der the falfe pretext of eftablifliing liberty
amongst thcmfelves and other natiei s of the
earth, tyrannizing over thc vidims «f their
ambi ion ; unprovokedly and indiscrimi
nately dcfolating cities, and overturning
governments—we cannot but prize the bltf
lings of our own, and refolre, at every ha
zard, to d< fend it.
The Constitution of our general govern
ment secures to us every privilege which a
rational mind can desire, and is the admira
tion of the wisest politicians
The intercourse of kind offices between
thc French nation and America, and the
mutual services rendered each other, for ma
-1 y rears, had united them to us in bonds of
amity which no inconsiderable cause has
broken, and wWe the liberty and happiness
of man appearrd to us their only <.bje<fl, our
good wilhes attended them in evety pursuit :
But avarice and power, gaining afceirdency
over honesty and rcafuii, hurried them on
to such wild extravagancies as astonished the
mod friendly nations, and incurred our jufl
refeutment.
When w? turn our attention to the longcontinued deprcd -.nous on our commerce,
the repeated infulti to our general govern- !
ment in the rejection of our envoys, anil the I
inlijious measures pursued to divide and
diflraft our councils, every tender feeling is
ex inguifhed—But what better can we ex
peft from a nation divelled of piety and e
vtry moral sense, and whufe Creed is Athe
tftti ' —With such, friendfhip cannot be
maintained, and solemn treaties are as idle
tales.
It is to be lamented, that any American
citizen wuul i take a part on the fide of our
enemies, to calumniate our favorite Rulers
and weaken the arm of government. \v e
lament also, the abuse of that fundamental
privilege in our conliituiion, the liberty of the
Press: But calumny, when ifluing from
some particulai periodical fountains, and
aimed at " a WASHINGTON, or an
ADAMS," is praiie : For such illustrious
charaders need only be named, to be admir
ed ; w ofe wife and patriotic exertions,
from the commencement of our revolution,
to the present day, have uniformly tende - '.
to obtain and prcferve our Lioert) and la
dtpei dence
The measures pursued by the Executive
of our General Governmeii:, in appointing
and inltruftin? Envoys with a view t'> oper
ate ■ reconciliation between thef« United
States and the French Republic, are evi
dences to us of f.iperior wisdom, and an ar
dent desire for peace ; and the effeft of their
negociatiou convincing, that further at
tempts would prove frilitltfs. Nothing
therefore remains but to place oarfelves in
a proper fitoation of defence, having no al
ternative but the ultimate argument of in
jured republics : but in any event, ulyi'ig
on the wisdom of our conllituted authori- <
tie* to dilate, we (hall ever Hand ready to I
co operate with them for the general fafety. <
Ihe important and interelling fubjedts
contained in the communications from our i
neighboring Hates, together with those t
which more immediately concern this, will ]
meet our early and due attention ; confident e
of yout Excellency's readiness to unite with e
us, in every measure conducive to the wel- i
fare of our common country.
c
t
From a Vtrnitnt paper.
_ c
RIGHTS OF MAN.
T
.Liberty and Equality, t
One and Indivisible. c
On the 13th nit. three days af'er the tri
al of Matthew [.yon for Sedition, the of
fice of Mr. John Coek. of Poultney, a a
refpeftable young lawyer, was broken o
pen, and his papers deltroyed or dispersed. "
Mr. Cook was a principal witn fs againfl; V
Lyon, on the above trial —The following l '
are the names of persons arretted at the fyit "J
u M r r 'n9 oo,l '. to ref P ond 'f'c damages he 1
has fu(lamed in the depredations on hi*
property John M'Arthur, and Jeremy
H. Dvvyer. both of Lyon's printing-office, f
D.melMOnrrl HITjL? w
Hawkins, jun. all of Fairlwven j Elkanah
Afhley, Poultney. As the guilt or inno- p
eence of these persons will foor. be deter- .
mined in a court of justice, from motives a
of delicacy we forbear to make any further
obfervatious lell wc might be supposed to
give a bias 'o the opinion of a jury.
011 the 6th instant foipe villains girdled a
fine young fruit-bearing orchard, the pro- ; f
perty of Mr. Silas Hamilton of Fairhaven ; u
they defticyed 120 apple trees It m»y be .1'
recolleded that this Mr. Hamilton i, the h
person «ho Matthew Lion prosecuted for "
defamation some time since. It seems Mr. 1,.'
Hamilton had asserted that Lion had forged pi
a letter to favwr his eleaion to Conyrefs, i r ,f
and had given certain five pail kettles for I,
votes. We do not know that we date the n f
defamatory words accurately ; of this we T 0
are certain, Lyon prosecuted Mr. Hamilton
for defaming hisch.rafter, Mr. H. contcf- i p r
fed words and jultified ; the jury Rave I Di
r ' 0r • a,,d L ? on ,)ad to pay i D
colts 1 his ,3 the fame man whq has had l oc
hit orchard destroyed.
MORE RIGHTS OF man. an
On the night of the toth i„ft. Mr. Rann of
ot Foultr.ey, near to fairhaven, had a part l,ei
of the tree of his orchard girdled; but the a PI
villains we e frightened. and fled before they M '
had completed their diabolical purpose.
N- B Mr. Rann, was the firft person who Fol
mounted the cackle in that town. r °
:£
his
fail<
BALTIMORE, December , 9 . S
"p»». . &
into the house of deleFatcs U ot y t^ r °ft UCed 136611I 36611
motion for leave to brin , s tc a 'av
•« an mA a b '». entitled 'he
hC^/ . abo,itl '° > Slave- B
;:b;SFof : S2
Iff r D
briro-in,, ir j e *prefs in r son
oonrle „f , fewlv, ' RM " in the W »'
before the house th'e plan'he haT'm " 7
•b£u,ki. m 1 ! ' mp "
A
lodge
December 1 J*.
°. r r n " ntry ' who ' ,:? T
•«cnt, an i v„l at Br J'.J" ° f RoVer " '
good health, =nd * '?* in J™ :
Men t Vernon ,his m, "n.ng for f rom
*«ry M. I.C CO,r, I ),r ) f ed by his fecre
font 1
rab,
ncrcr, . - * "' ''
7ZI C!)c Gmttc.
lc and ' '■ .. .
ling is
ve ex- PHILADELPHIA,
'nd e- _,.
At} ':~ SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER .1,
ot be
is idle
PRICES OF STOCKS.
erican Pmiladklphia, D£crmbkr 22. j
of our Per „ Ce p • , l6^
Tnrte Her Cent. icy
<ulers Deftrred 6 Per Cent. x if
We B \NK United Stated, at percent.
aental Prnnfjrlvanii, a " 5 ,]j tto
of the North America, 5 o ditto
from !nfuran «e eomp N.A. ft area jj ditto
...j Pcnnfylvarlii, fliarev, 4? ditto
»" d COURSE OF EXCHANGE d
or an q„ London, it 30 days (, 0 e
trious at 60 days t
dmir- at 90 days " t
tions, Amltcrdam, 60 dayt, per guilder, 30 cents j
ltion, t
•ndei " Medicus" to the Regimental Sur. v
d I«. ?eon» is unavoidably podponed 'tillMon- ',
d 'iy- a
:utive a
nting to The u
oper- LEGISLATURE (/PENNSYLVANIA. f
"' tcd ("Continued. J j 1
: evi- g
f n 3r ' GF.NTI.EMry,
their That the Yellow Fever brlopgs to a Ge- "
r at - nus, effi ntialjy Jiill rent from that of the Bil- t]
tiling ions or Remitting Fevers, endemial to marihv y
J ll filiation's in the Summer and Autumnal sea- w
0 al- son or difters, not o.ilv in dega-e but in '»
if w kind from of Bilious fever, is
lying also fupportfd by the authority of al.noftev- >
hori. dry author of credit that has written on the | C
yto iuhjeOt, and that has had opportunities of L
ifety. oblerving it m ail its varieties. ( ?
>jc<a* Among theft- 1 need only mention War-1
> our ren on the pestilential fever at Bail,ados in j
thole the year 'J 3 ' and 175^ —Hughes's Natural 2
will History of Barbados—Del'poi tes on the dif- ° j
ident eases of St. Domingo—Hilar)- on the dif- lr
with eases of Barbadocs—Schottc on the Febris j' 1
wel- Atrahrliaris at Goree in Africa, a. d. i 7 78 1r
—Blane on the Direafes of Seamen—Mofelv <4
on I rdpical Difeales—Chilhohn on the Pef- m
tdential Fever at G,-enada. in 3 -_:,nd _
Wright's letter to Dr. Gartihore, in Medi- A
cat Fads, vol. 7 th.
The majority of the Weft-India writers,
as well as those who have seen the difcafe in
the United btates of America, are also de- •
cidedly of opinion that the Yellow Fever is
tri- ! ° , K h 'y < onta S and of pestilential origta ;
■ of- • thc >' a « ree tljjj it is only so in warm ph
r # and confined air, ' - d
no- ! 11 , < ' nce h a PP ears necefTaryto eftablifti f«ch tk
fed. W1 " embrace two obiei£ts ; tv
"'nft : ,Z ; as 7' 11 prevent the in- a
ing tr ™ lol ' of soR ''K n contagion through the mc
suit *? ed, " m " f con l mcrc e, and such as will render cla
hc the air of o«r fra-ports so pure and cool, that tv
h;j it may counteraft or resist the power of the an
•my introduced, (0 as to Ji
ES™" p "" I " c, " e iB "f"" 11 *"™- i»
nah 7 "t " j '' , l ft ' Ss aTl 3~arginhe7rre- t,-l
mo- 2 > rta u J rOU i my opinion, that the ™
ter- , FeVCr W , hkh P r " vcd so Jeftruftive to the Z
ives j,, 1 " U V vfl °. f '"habitants of Phila- v O ,
10 - !Y fir \ Ca * S tHat ° Ca,rred were trac ed
' * OI, P "f 20 guns, called the Deborah si „
of tlt rr,TO k at PhiUdelphia on the ,Bth
en • , , J y ,' ?" board ° f whlch persons , J
be Si f A &brr . pr - (Ta « e from Jeremie to a
the Hofilitair T^V' CrtreWattheMarinc ble
r lt . 'l a ' f" 011 her arrival. That fewral
f- pe-rlons died on hoard the DebJTSj ft a P t
f
or Lewis, mate of the Deborah L- 1
««i s£*7 n " VVil, "- b^ "«"w K "
[ John Bodin, (on oath) to the Mayor of Bur! 1
1 f j p n? i'! n ' aii ; has been acknowledged by the
ve 1 n"[ r' l os Healthy Lp e Z
iad lodgings ai Mr. Doyle's. uw that took tati
While the Deborah was p-rformin"- quar '
antine, it appears from the ackhoSXt
nn neiffhb X r I V, hll ' PS ' Wh ° refidcd 'he T
srt neighborhood where the disease made its firlt
be *™ n ee, to. Mr. Thomas Towne and
iey Mr. John Punlon, that he brought up 1 sick
_ man from on hoard a veflVl , K . P al * k prof
-
1 owne, and afterwards to Mr t n „,' oral
st; n
'e- Puiiddn, that Philips told'him "hef' " nam '
man from the Deborah rL rou f ht a the s
>1- and died on the <th of A a l! . zd > all i
his sickness he was" attended llvDr GHffitt^
who prescribed, at the fame Le £ !
sailor at Philips's.* ' hck a %
he «te!d t I U ld in . formed th e College, that
a Vell r a " ,an 111 with the
d been at work on°Wd tteVviV thnt had D;
a lay where
t a r tended ons of the of
d bond, scon iff k WOrk r d on the De- ha<
t ill of fever ( ' )n who was taken alt<
a law on tTie aqth
1- the attack. V ' ln S the sthfrom
5 t Ache- ~T h
e Wal m ,t ft^,"" ' ", ter a little «»V below ° n
ror n-xt h,n 3 °t SlnK house next T
on birffe g h ta who had been thro^
maS2 e i^7 , J on the 2i d, and was "° en
ver r with vellow fe- fi ,° n ° f
Aleck M r on the4th cf r en
n . a > tch -ho Fra " c:
■ —- me house With the carpenter, " ~
David Sfiraks ajfi>- ms t £ cl di
> f-ont birf befbr- the 71 T-T o '
Anrf to!dbim i, i "* * '
vas ta f<"*£.v.itb bun, ns be Briftnl •
from 'tb •r a "t " p " ne *f b " oU '"it"-* ,R<l tin
tbnt i.Z ne '^ hrs '» foififis ah* as.«r>
, *' « sieJL sailor from the Deb - ?
to bis bouse. ?" m ' U
No?.
/ ~
i °» tli" evrn'n* of the sSth, aftri fh ,
;n ? J'fp'aivd like on; intoxicated' for two
days.
t—. A lad of t!ie name of Wrigjit, Nephew
to :vlrs. M-Cri.ll near CheTnut-ftrcct, went
on board fehe Deborah as soon as Die arrived,
and frequently tft-rwards, and was attacked
fever on,tho 31(1 of July.
khhatum.
S. pitcr tinned "a Regimental Surgeon,
• a*. /''•*» paragraph of tin-" Sketch" &c Inert
the year 1747, in one of those in which the
} elhw Fever has made its appearance in
Philadelphia.
•cent. '
to f ■*
to To John Ward Fenno.
THERE appeared in your pajxfr of Tues
day evening, lall what you term a lift of Unit
ed Irilhmen. It is of little confluence to
the public, whether I am or am not one of
that body, but asfallJiood, in whatever lhape
>ts it appears, Ihould b? icoutied, Ido not chule
to be introduced before the pun lie wantonly
Sur- without relenting it. If there is any crime
lon- attached to the name of United Irishman, I '
ain clear of it. When I applied to you with
a view to learn by what authority you made
use of my name, accompanied by a falfe ai- ,
HA. which I suppose was meant to in
jure me, if such a charge ought to be cause 1
•t injury to any man, for reasons heft known ]
to yourfeli, you thought it convenient to 1
Ge- lv & ,,e to name of your authority Jinuft j
Bil- tl,errt '"'s conclude that the LIE belongs to .
rlhv * mrfc!tV Merely to lhew the public upon 1
w b?t lotmdatiujn your afiertions reft, I Uib
it in J' )U1 tjm following affidavit.
is j S. PARKE.
'the' f'V °f Pk<l»delsbff}, IT.
so f . BEFORE nje, John Jennings, one
of the; Aku rinen of the laid city, perfonal
irar. I'y appeared, Samuel Parke, tavern-keeper,
3 in ' n Court, who being duly sworn,
ur.ll ' ! th de P° fe Tint ill the publication
dif- nanu s federal, said to be United
dif- f r '" lmcn > Fenno's paper of the eighteeth r<
bris ' nl ' ,lnt > among which his name is inlerted t ]
778 '*• therefore, denies the charge of bring one
lely °* t ! ie locietv, or of having any com- '
p e f- municatiou with them in wv refped whatever tE
and . SAMUEL PARKE. tl
Sworn and subscribed before me, } C(
this 1 qth day of Deer. 1798. J
; -rs t J OHN JtNKiNos, alderman. ;U
. • December 21. Oi
de- " li'
r ls 1 o John Ward Fenno,
10 •' IN y° ur of Tuesday last, you re
rm/ Pjelented me as a member of that body call
ed United Irilhmen in America. The affer- th
h tion is not true t I never was in their focie- P r
I s ' x b nortl ° 1 know a lingle individual who is Wi
in- a member. I came to America in the a
the month of Oitober 1797, and I folemnlyde- L
clare that 1 ne ver was in any political focie
wt ty whatever in th(? country. And I defy
■lie any person to prove the contrary. Every
to editor ought to be accountable for what ap
>"- pear* in his paper, and as thu sal/hood has N<
trv > our I you to con- Sc
Vj II- vou do not wirti tob. o^r.4-
<• .tW ntitkaa -of« ijjaiicioUS. Gl
you are welcome to produce the name of Bt
' y° ur '"former, and let it red with him. Bl
i do not mention this out of difxlpeft to
that body called United Irilhmen, *s I know
, "°thing about them ; but m#rely vith a de
rl' 1, 4," to " ltnrm the public, that ycu with a
th nnlicious intent, had declared to the world
ns a tnoft notorious untruth. That it is with
to a malicious intent, i, clear from the pream
• ble of your falfe declaration, in which you
£ u theifc men as Jangerpus to the
state, as having dark and bloody ddigns. as
o murderers, afTaffins, and what ,ot-and ten
you mod wickedly and groundlefdy aflert Th.
that lam ,„ e of them. If this is not ma- 100
lice. I know not what malice is. tor;
\ou know that the IVfident ha> it now thai
" in his power, to fend out of the country a- whj
ny a len, whom he may consider as an ene- our
• my to the United States, and vou endeavor Fra
• hv the molt gross falfhoods and mifreprefen- eft i
tations, to exhibit me as such a thei
1 leave you to solace yourfelfwith the pleas- to c
mg refledions, which lAuft nece(Ta-ily arise tent
IL . ,n y° ur min d from such conduft. Log
wonder why you are sorry that you can fori'
mention only twelve names (after inviting be il
information so preflingly) as with the fame unh
propriety with which you mentioned mine,
• > 011 might have menticned twelve thousand, of 1
' ted H names with which you are ac<juain- liorr
ou ask why should vou mention the und<
• na mes of Samuel Wylie,' John Black, &c. dene
■' the answer can only be this, merely to ex
pole yourfelf. There can be no 'good at
J a ,. ln lies. Rut sometimes men's "
' ma ' ,ce ol, t does their cunning. It ought Ire
' t0 " e con hdered, however, that you are but have
H w- an ma 5' better in time to come. since
With hearty wishes for your amendment, upor
1 am ' foun
1 JOHN BLACK. F,
December 21. , n(la
[I hurl back in the teeth of these fellows eve- t,m
ry item of their abuse. I have called nei- sice
ther of them an United IriOiman. If 1
had, nothing they can fay or do, would their
alter my opinion, refpefting them, their Prefi
principles or their.purposes.] to th
- for u
A CARD.
There can be but one reason for the oppo
lition to the Bankrupt Law, which is, to
make as many desperate men as Doffible
throughout the United States ; who/S p J h
no end to their calamities, may effl ft a New'f
(ion of order both civil and religious •
then Huzza for Liberty and Equality, j / fl
rranccns, ala Guillotine, ala Victor Hughes. A
Horses to Winter. a'frig
|. ORSKS will b= taken in to winter at P»«. Oclol
°"r
a:
Sot. 1 havin
tf defea
$
m
1 two °* a ' ettcr from the Confql of j
the United States at Gibraltar, dated I
ephew and 23d of Oit. J798.
vent " The American fliip Roanoke, j
■'icl«d Eben . ezcr Paine ' commander, from Nor- |
folk in \ irginia, with a valuable cargo i
of Cocoa, Indigo, See. bound to Cadiz 1
and a market, was brought in two days 1
'F ls ''"l a r 'ti'h privateer, on pretence of |
ch 'the bc '" S Spanilh property; and after going [
tee in
| through the customary interrogations, ! <
has been cleared. | s
" Since the veflcl was freed, being of '
• 333 tons burthen, I met Earl St. Vin. j
{__Tj' u j ce nt, when I took the opportunity tore- f
ice to ( l ueft the favor of leave for her going to f
ne of at '' z w her cargo, which he not on-
lhape ly granted, but also a convoy, as she is
Nmlv nul with leave to bring out for the t
crime States a cargo of the produce of 1
, Jft , 1 Spain. n
1 with "At foot you have the names of the a ,
f" as f ' X Frcnch prizes <ent in h 7 admiral Nel- 1
e> L it!- '° n ' five are now ready to pro- t<
cause c ced to LilLon, there to get some tem- "
nown porary repairs before they go for Eng- ''
it to land ; they are under jury malls,and in a
»to lhockin « state - Adm. Nellbn is block- th
upon in « U P Malta * Oj
sub- NAMES OF PRIZES. J c
Le Frankliu, 80 runs v -
Le Tonant, g 0 do .
Le Spartiat, - 4 do . fa
one Le Conquerant, J ot fc
anal- Le Peuple Souveraine, 74 do. so
32' 74 d. S
ition a Dane 111 27 days from Leg- da
lited horn > "is reported that the Maltese had St
eeth role on the French garrison, difpofeiTed tO .
one t ' lcm the island, and thrown them
oZ fe ! ves untler thc protection of Great-Bri- "
ever tam and the King of Naples;— He fur- to
tlier reports, that Buonaparte had been we
compelled by the Turks to re-embark his f,,!
army, and was in great want of provili.
ons ; that oh the other hand the Eng- th:
lifh continued to block them up." mj
re . ELECTION. Sii
all. Yesterday, agreeably to a writ issued by
rer- the hon. the Speaker of the House of R c - "•
cie- prefentatives of Penrfy'vania, an Election l '°
oi s was held in the county of Philadelphia, for '
the a person to represent the fame in the State =
de- Legillaturc,
Thc following it an accurate Wa
lefy RETURN OF THE VOTES -g
ery in the refpeaire diftri'As.
l P V 1. T -v. Muhlenburg. Logan.
has Northern Liberties, 266 5 66 .
an- Sonthwark, Moyamenm'njr.l
l>J- Pmej-nnk, r 221 3J9
us, Germantown, ; a
of Buftletown, (not received.)
Blockley k Kingfelßng, 2 g ?6
to J
? w Total 687 1211
; s «°
| 'j| Majority for Dr. Logan 524
m- - """
ou OOMMVNICATION.
he - ~~ A
as Tbe object of Logan's million was to coun- -/V
nd teracl the measures of our government. enfui
■rt 1 herefore Logan, and his employers, can be on W
,a- looked upon in no other light, than as trai- j
tors. It was not for the benefit of America ~
.w that he was lent ; but, to advise the French
a- «'hat plan to puifue, in order to accomplilh Hay
le- our ruin. The outrageous proceeding of
or France was faft drying the Jacob,n inter
n" C ..' n n t countr )'i and Logaa went to lave Al
—. their linking cause, by perluadingtheTyrants difpc
il- to change their mode, not to alter their in
le tention. In any other nation, the necks of
Logan and his empi.oykrs, would pav the
in forfeit ot their crimes: but here, with fliame
ig be it spoken, they will probably not only go
ie unhung, but unpunilhed.
e, Any compromile with the present rulers
d, of France, cannot be contemplated without Hf<l
n. horror, much less, such an one as they would
be willing to make. A writer in this paper a
le under the lignature of American Indepcn
dence lately took for his motto these Jines :
r " The world is burning, Frenchmen stand
it on high,
•s " And either they, or we, must lower lie." '.
it I read them with pl-afure at the time, and
t have thought on them with pleal'ure ever Conu
'ince. Ihe sentiment Ihould be impressed
upon the mind of every American. It is
rounded in awful truth.
French tampering has been the means of A
enllaving almost half Eurode Godmnt r 1
. **
. 'ice to it. If we are, it will be with our Dec
1 eyes open. We have a full knowledge of
1 and we have expreffid it, in the
r rreiident, therefore, if we are finally dupes T'O
to their cursed wiles, there will be no excuse A '
for us. Harke
[Russel's Com, Gaz. ton i
prcfert
left tea
Ne "jo-London, Dee. 19. ®rder
' P«^kk U FW e l St,ttt / r,^ te * ° eor S c Wa «>;"gton, but^!
• Newonrr ' v* r.Jed fiom beam"
Newport, on a cru.fe, on Wednesday last. la> s
Charleston, December 3. Patt
A gentleman who came in the Carolina Jl akin l
from London, informs, that he was on board '
a frigate at Portsmouth on the 3d or 4 th of r ° nt "
October, and was there told by some of the
officers, that a frigate had arrived at Sheer- A r
n f'l ch Lord Bridpcrt's fleet in fight fitnatec
of the -• rench fleet from Brest. It alfo ly in.pi
on board the frigate, that accounts ""ftfioi
had arrived at the admiralty, of the two fleets int line
defeated 1116 *' ° f thC French bein ® tota! 'y J ° hß °
iulv
ql of I From tht Lerjbtcrg I (Pirg ) P.!per.
dated f _ Madame Bache is conftanily conj*r,ltu!a»
J ting her jiicuhimc lierde on the ine!hmabl*
lokc, kleffinga *f'ultinjj ' from the hte rmh.uTy of
, the notorious Logan : To him flie fays they
may look as their savior ; through his in
..ti go terceflion they are for a moment refcucd from
- acli'z the indignation of the mighty republic,
days j? "" >rt l " nc lince, when this Logan wai
ct , Q f 'P®' ieD "f as an vnauthorisid envoy,
every exertion was made use of to ptove
[Oing | that he went to France merely as a Private
ionS, . Citizen ; that he was not sent by Jefferfon
| and die French party ! ! How inconsistent i»
of the condud ef these fatellires of France !
V;,, one time declaring to yon that this of.
hcious doder did no* go on any public bu
orc- liner., and immediately after exi»ltin R in the
,g t0 iuccefn c f his mission Even publishing ad
on- drf »« Prrfented Him in France, by French
he is n . fnc " nß » e*preflive of their approbation
e his condud at Paris ! However llrangc
r ru T'l appf : ,r ' wi,h me ic »* "o paradox :
X' of *»e 'alt exertions of an expiring faction are
now refortedto, and .11 their utrfgue. ai d
'the a "? l ? conhrte " c,cs mult appear. They f*f
M , this Logan hat effeded the raiW of the
embargo ; that he has indued the direct, ry"
pro- to cause a momentary lufpenfion of ,'epreda
em- "of son our commerce See, What could
W the despots of France beheld in this fellow
inn (L o g»n)ahat induced them to do this?
What could they fee in this Private Citizen
>cb- that commanded greater refped than tl.e
Official Envoys—but the agent df Thomas
Jel!er!on, &c. ? Want of proof in law pre
vents me from declaring him to be fiich ;
circumuances, fcotifcientfous proof) are
Mifficiently ftio~g to convince me of the
fad. ]do believe he was the envoy of Jef.
ft Hon and Co. that he was dineded to in
form them that they werc.u.ablc. any lon
ger, to dupe the people of America ; that
their eyes arc open to their own intcref) and
eg- danger ; that the gov ( rnmmt ( f the United
lad States were too fenlible of French perfidy
Fed to'uffer a continuance of their insults and
in- IH J" r ' e . B « and th at, to preveut a war, it was
"I' " I ' o relax in their f.verities, Tl.ia
had the desired effed ; but it is not
ur- to Dodor Logan nor Thomas JefFerfon thrt
:ejj we are indebted ;iti» to the energetic mea
his r,lr " of °" r government which they op
ifi P ''. and woufd fcav e presented hnd it! ten
„ '" power While I fi ßC erely lament
ig- that there ,s a French fadion in exillu.cr,
my attettion for my native country will not
permit me to remain a- fient spectator, but
ttimu.ate ne to watch with aflid ity their'
adioni, and endeavor, as tar as the remote
l'm n , of m y situation and means of ins r
t.ou will admit, to expose them to pub!*
. 4 execration,
for
ate i . _ -
A Ring oi Small Keys.
Wa.> loft yesterday afternoon— aßypcrf . n Jcll>cr .
.ng them it thi. office writ be rewarded.
doc %%
™. TTFipes Madeira Winel
63 FOR SALK BY
59 Crooke Stevenson,
. - N ° 4 ' South w «er-ftreef.
" :
56
A Few Chefti of
11 t: ~ IMPERIAL TEA,
Second ftre'e 0 " South
'' 4
t Company.
A RF J"? STOCKHOLDFRS,
-1
* ° a
i- dee i» UM> GOVE IT, Secretary.
■a
i> '1 he Sul>/cribers
h Have received by the Clothier from Liverpool
,f A cassiasmlk , or j Caj „ P
e ll AfTorted Buttons,
e ~r A tr C UV °I " ftCr ,' inß e,ch Ca( - which they wilt
s ol P" »>n I.Lvral term..
f No-« M M'tlford & WilH Sm
t No. ,8, North Front near Arch flreefc
e WANTED,
J ABOUT fifty Caik? of <
Annatto or Rocoa,
s , y =» above.
t "ea ai
1 JultPubliftied,
r and IS NOW FFE ft D F ,K SALE By
3. D.jVIES,
"• HiKh-ftrjet,
{ iHE AMERICAN RJEI OSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REGISTER,
[ For the Year 1799
Containing complete and cor.e4t lilts 0 f t v-
Executive, Legislative, and Judiciary De
partments of the General and State
Governments
. As. reat variety of ufeful Tablet, neeeflary to be
r 1 mi" f Very s ""-of the Union
hmbLiliJhed with a hat dfome engraved Fran
itfpiece.
Dec. y
Patent Ploughs, ...
I {% J° fe P h at AtGoa
Hnrti un ' 6 ' Co '^ ei t Ferry—Jonathan
! Th f Evini > Ember
ton. Those.who have used uhem give thr-m the
preference to any other kind, as fhey require
nlr.'t f'" 1 ' BrOM(lbilttr are kept i„
erder at left «pence and an fokl at a cheaper
rate—the plan is nmch amplified an,l cor.liltfof
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and
beam «f wood ; they may befixed n ith wrought
Wit haj for Sah\
Or to Leafs ft,- „ ter m 0 f y rari
nymoer of valuable rncfl. of Land, well
fitnaxed far MilJ., iron «Vorks or Firms moft
y irjprovcd, lying chi. fly m the county n'f Hnn
n"d re" , #t, .° f tWyfvania Thof who may
inthne to view them w.H to a pp l y
John Canan esq. near Huntingdon.
. , Ctar let Nt-wield.Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandownt
Baizes
Velvetts
Velverctti
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk
Bruflels and Persia caipctts
Buttons
For sale, for tajb or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. a' 43 Arch street.
Nov. 16
FUWsale,
at no. 9, South Water-Street.
liifh Linens, 7-8 and 4-4, well
allorted, in whele and half boxes . *
Checks, in ditto
Drogheda's, and Brown 7-8 beetled Linens
Irish Hackled Flax
Seotts Thread
Men and Womens Combs
RUfiia Duck, of an excellent quality, and
100 hhds. Aux Cayes Molafics*
By ISAAC HARVET, junr.
nth, mo. 17 d4W
Bank of North Ameriea.
THE Stockholders are hereby notiCed, that an
Licit ion for twelve Direiftors, for the cnluing
year, will be 1 eld at the Batik on Monday, the
14th of January next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Calh'r.
Dec. 8, 179«j dtEl
ANY French Ladies and Gentle
men wanting pafiage for France, can obtain it to
a Vessel at New-York, by applying to Meflrs
Gahu & Mumfotd in that City.
Det. 18.
Ces Dames ou Meflieurs Francois, qui veulent
passer en France, peuvent t'trc aciomtulve, fur un
batimcnt partant de N. York, en S'addreffant ckez
M. M.Gahn and Mumford, dan cettcville.
Dec. 18. 3t
NOTICE.
ALL Perfojs indebted to the Estate of Wil
liam Desuchamp, lately deceased, are de
tired to make immediate payment and those who
have any claims against laid Eltate to produce
their accounts properly attested to
Sam!. Price, executor.
uov 20 dim
FOR ZALE,
By the Subscriber, •
Belfaft Canvass, No. i, toy,
On moderate terms for Cash or a Ihort credit
James Lyle,
South Seventh Jlireet, near Che/nut.
nov 16 4
FOR SALE,
To be EXCHANGED for property within thirty
miles of the city, or to let on ground-rent forever
Several valuable building Lots,
la Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Biddle. ne. I*47> Ghefnut
• street.
Nov. 12 §
FOR SALE,
By the Sub/cribers
100 Bolts Ruflia Duck,
50 pipes London pasticular bill Madeira Wine
I nine ptronil C<UJlil)li
A few Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
4000'.b« Fine Flota Indigo
aj Barrels Beef.
Witlings & Francis:
Pcnn-ftreet, >
Novembtr 28 ) §^
ALL PERSONS having any legal demands a
gainst the estate of William Pn iui,deceafed,
lau of th» city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
requested to furnifh their accounts properly au
thentieated, and all pcrfons indebted to said estate
are r.-qacfled to make payment to the fubferiber m
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
Oflobcr jilt, 1798.
Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a good BreaftofMilk,
Enquire at No. 58 South Front street,
Dee. to.
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
DESERTED last night, a second time, from
the Marine Camp, David Lupcr, a fife'.—
He had when he went away, a plain blue jacket and
veft,light blucoveralls, around hat,which had been
bout»d with yellow, and which he had ripped off
in his fitft defertltin, and a pair of new (hoe». he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sandy hair
fallow complexion and a nitch in his upper* lrp
His back is ftltl fore from a flogging he got a few
c'ays ago He may bo difcovtred by his fifeing,
as he plays extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
Oaober 17. Marine Corps.
FOR SALE,
Fifty Acres of Good Land\
Lving in Gloucester County,
State of hetr.'ferfty,
TWENTY-FOUR acres ot whichaie
Woodland, the reft, Meadaw. This
land lies about half a mile from Tisnber-Crc«k,
and two miles from the river Delaware, the
county road pasting through it, and the great
road only two miles distant. For terms, apply
to, PATRICK DOGHERTY,
Sign of tbe Rainbow, inShippen,
between Second and Tbird-Jlreetj.
Ate 4 ftnth&liw
ALL PERSONS
Indebted to th»Eftate of Mr. Joun FxNNO.late
•f Philadelphia, deceased,are dtfired to make pay
ment, and those having aoy demands, to present
them far fcttUusot, to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r.
or
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
to the adminiftraticus.
Nov. 3o s3 m
NOTICE.
ALL pertbns indebted to the Estate of Sam
uel Wallis, elq. of Murcey towulhip,
in the county of Lycoming, latejy deteafed, are
hereby required to come forward immediately
and pav their refpeifiiv*debts. —And all perfoos
having legii demands against the Estate, are
requested to produce their accounts, properly
authenticated, for settlement.
JOHN WAI.I.IS, ■)
WILLIAM ELLIS, ( A.lminiflra-
DANIEI. SMITH, f tors.
JOiiN AIW.UMx J
dectmber 13
THE CAR CO,
Of i ut. Ship INDIA,
C.pt.iin Ashmead, from BA'fAVIA,
Consisting ef
JAVA COFFEE,
Of the I'll ft Quality—to be Sold, by
MORDECaI LEWIS,
dee i. <llw
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
14 four pound Camion, different lengths,
c Carronades.
JOHN NIXON & CO.
December 1. $
Lancaster County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street.
dee 1 .
TTREI\CE slckel,
No. 155, Marlet-Strcet.
First quality London Particular > VV4NES.
Madeira, Port, Sherry and Lifoon j
Cogniac Brandy, ill to 4th proot.
Sprits.
By the Pipe, Hhd, Qnartcr-caflc or Gallon.
,| ec j mu&tiw
Now Landing,
From on board the fliip John Bulkeley, and
for sale at the stores of Jeffe & Robert
Wain,
350,0 c o weight of Java Coffee,
of the firft quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
in cannifter*.
Nov. 11, dtf
BALLASf.
A QUANTITY to b'difpofed of, if applied for
immediately, on bood the Ship Louita, lying
Mr. HUMPHREY'S Ship Yard.
November 10. $
Imported,
In the Ships Aftive and Liberty,
from Hjmborgh.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Hefiian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, &c.
For Sale by
V GEORGE FENNOCX.
no. lOJ Market-street.
nov ao <5
SHOEMAKER y BLR ROT,
H&VF. REMOVED THEIR
INSURANCE OFFICE
to No. 9, south Front street.
Their room at the Coffee-houfe will contfhue to
be attended from 12 till 1 o'clock in the day, and
from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOB SHOEMAKER,
Has also removed his Counting koufe to the
fame place, where he has for sale a few pipe» choic«
London Paaticular Madeira Wine ; frcneh and
Spanifli Brandy ; Claret <n cafks'anrgm, ornF"
-pertor--qoincrrsfia - '* tew Packages Glass and
CJuecnVware ; also, a quantity of Carolina Soil
leather, whith will be fold very low to clofc the
tales.
Philadelphia, is mo. i», X 798.
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
Alexr. J. Miller, & Co.
BEING diflolvcd on the firft instant, by the
death of James Davis, all pcrfons indebted
to the lame art requelted to fettle with the sub
scriber, and thofc to whore they are indebted are
requested to call on him for payment.
ALEXR. J. MILLER,
No. 64, South Front Jlreet.
£
Who has on hand,
TO BE DISPOSED OF ON LOW TItMS,
lij tbe Package or Piece.
Fine plain and tamboured Muslin*
Guzzenna*
' Baftas
Coffaes
Rabobgungies
India Callicoes
' Book Muslins
' Coloured ditto
Real & Mock Madras & pullicat hkfi.
| Brown Silefias
Tickings, &c. &c.
JUST ARRIVED,
AN ASSORTMENT or
' Irish Linens Ssf Russia Sheetings.
: nov 28
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand, understands
accounts and can be w«H recommended,
wants a Situation as Clerk or A 15ftant in a
W'holefale Store, or Conuting-hoafe. Appli
cation to be made it this Office.
nov 14 J
' To the Creditors of the Sub/cribers.
; OLE ASK TO TAKE NOTICE, that we have ip
. 1 plied to tbe judges of the Court of Common
Pleas, for the benefit ol an act of affcmbly, palled the
' tourth day of ApriiUft; and they have appointed
THURSDAY the *7ih inft. to hear us and uur Cre
ditors, in the city of Philadelphia, at Inch place
where the Court may be held, ana where you may
attend if you please. •
PATRICK CAVANAUGH,
JAMES DOUGHERTY,
PETER G. ROSE,
JOHN GREENE,
LEWIS D.GRAFF,
JAME*. M*CAI.LEY.
RICHARD STOKES
dee. 8. ' 3iaw 3*
L 0 S ~T,
IN one of the (Ireeta laetween Union and Saf
fafras, on the sth infttnt, the outfid# Cas*
of an Eiiglifh Gold Watch, chafed on the back
with a shield. A erfon who may find the
lame, and will bri to this office, will receive
Four Dollars reward> and the thanks of the
owner,
dec. 7.
All Perlons
Indebted to the Estate of HENRY HILL, dtccafed
arc requested to make payment to the fubferiber ;
and those having any demands on the lame to pro
duce their account * for isitlemtnt.
GIDEON H. WELLS,
no. 139, Market street
Philadelphia, dec. 4, 1798 ' cots
I m p o 1; t *; d
In the last arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT KEAIONABLK PRICES ANu OK A LIBERAL
CREDIT, liY
PRATT V KINT7JXG,
* N0.95, North Water (Ireet.
215 bales & boxes Hcklenburghs,
hrropen linens and oznabrigs from 1/5 to
3/ P er ell
70 do. bleached and brown hessians
40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bags
20 do. itrong do. do. for cotton do.
jo chtfls pUtillaj 2 do. sealing-wax
3 do.' dowlas 3 packages oil-cloth
30 do. crcas ala Moriaix 4 do. fail twine
12 do. eftopailhss I do. watches
15 do. BieleJicM linen 14 pipes Port wine
90 do. patterhornes 92 cases claret
4j do Brittanias Jjo do fine long corked
I do. Holland canvass claret
I do. Rullia do. 1600 bulhrls fine fait
3 do. Rullia (heetings 40 crilkiofrull brinillone
I do. raven, duck joo caiks of naval stores.
n do. Ruflia drillens 50 logs prime mahogany
1 do. brown liolland 4 hhds. coffee mills
2 do. Silcfia rouans 0 bundles German ileel
I dsAVahrendrop linen 10 chests oi fiates and
I do. Caraudoles pencils -
I do. Flemilh linens \ package of Ikates
I do. cambricks and A do. woolen caps, &c.
liwns 4 chests of Nurenberg
1 do diaper ■ toys
12 do. stripes 40 kf.» of yellow ochre
18 do. check* 3 lihds. Glue
a do. iiamoii 8 barrels of Lentillei
I do. Arabia stripe £ chelts of prime red
X do. bu'uting for color.- crnft Holland cheese
I packa. Madras hand- ?o kegs ef pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
I do. Turkey yam 400 fides of upper and
6 bales empty bags foal leather
1 chest hair ribband ;o0 boxes window glass
3 boxes tapes, allotted 800 Demijohns '
2 d». bobbin,afforted JO boxes glats tumblers
I box threads & tapes afforttd
I do. froe blue liftados 2 lihds. pumice stone
3 chests men'sflipptrs 1 box ot mill saws
3 do. bed ticks I c»fk of cutlery
4 carts Hog's brillles A quantity of Hone jugs
6 cbelis writing paper and pickling pots
4 do. quills K ftw ftips anchors, &c.
November 12 tuSdtf
John Miller, junr.
Hai returned to the City,
AND IS REMOVING fHOM NO. 8, CHESNUT,
To th) Five 'Story' Building, in Dock
near ThirJJlrtet.
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTING or
C«f!aes
Baft as
Mamoodics
Hunhuins 4
CaScoes
Haidkerchicfs, tsfc. &c.
The remains of a Stock of
DRT GOODS,
Conjijling of Woolens only,
AMONGST THEM ARK,
Cloths
Coatings (
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, &c.
A L S 0,
-fr&o-Hlwis. of Old Rum*
Of- a fine flavor, 3d 4th proof.
nov 10 $
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detichment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp Wejl SckuyliiH, viz.
Odlober 29.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, 5
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair jiid
complexion,born in Holland, no Trade, speaks
broke* Er.gfilh and very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
N»-vembe• 6. John Murphy, ay years of
*ge, 5 feet iaches in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dub'ki, by trade a Hozier. .
_ Jacob Idm, 34 years of age, 5 feet 6 inches
high, grey tyes, l'andy hair, freftl (.omplexion,
born in Ney-England, itate of Connecticut, a
repeated de.'erter, by trade a Blackfiuith.
Ncvembet 7. William Collins, 3oyeais of
>ge, J feet t inches high, sandy hair, frelh com
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of
Wexford, bf trade a Gardner, has worked for
some time ajout Philadelphia, he is very fond
to hear himblf Sing.
AH the above deserters are very much addifk
ed to liquor, and will take othfcr people's pro
perty if in their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, had on, when they went away,
regimental olothing. Whosoever appre
hends said deterters, (hall receive forty dollats
reward, or tea dollars for each, with all realoa
*ble cxpences, by applying to me as above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov 10 £
Charles Campbell,
W AT C H-M A K E R.
HAS removed to the Shop formerly occupied
by Mr. John IVood, No. <5, corner of
Front and Chefnut-ftreets ; where he will thank
fully receive and exscute orders with neatness
and dispatch
HE HAS CONSTANTLY OH HAND,
A Neat and Large Assortment of
Clocks y Watches.
WANTED,
A JOURNEYMAN;
■rfl.SO, one or two Apprentices of refpedla
ble parents.
FOR SALS,
A large quantity of Watch Glafles
Whole/lit and Retail. ,
nov *♦
Bank of the United States.
November 14, 1 log.
- / NOIJCK is H£RErn~ Giy£N,
THAT application will be made at theTrta
lury of the United States for the renewal
ef a Certificate of Six per Cent Funded Debt,
No. '.5.548,f0r '8,782 dollars, 33 cents, dated
Kegifler s Office, January Bth, 1798, iflWd in
the names ot William IVillinh, jan H'illicit
Atcholai <3 -Jacob Van Stapborji & Hubbard,
1 rullees for sundry money-lenders iu Amfler
dam; which was forwarded the uthef Janua
ry, 1798, under cover to Nicholas Obbes, rlc.
and loft bv Use capture of the ftip Columbus,
captain Skin;.er,fsemNew-York for Amsterdam
G. Ssmpfun, ca/L'r.
ncv iaw6w
George Davis's
L A JV-B 0 0 K STO RE,
No. 319 High Sikekt,
Latest London £> Irish Editions.
GEORGE OAVIS's Fallimponation isnow
arranged of which a moic capital collec
tion he lelieves was never offered tor lale either
in this City, London or Dublin It combines
alinolt every book in,with several valuable books 1
out of print. Davis's confining himl'elf to the
lale of Law-Books only, it will appear obvious
to profelfienal Gentlemen, the advantages they
have both lu feklUbn and price by putcliafing
from him.
His Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will
particularly oblige him by calling lor them
and to thoie reliding at a diftavtce, by fovoring
him with their addreis (post-paid) they fiial-1 be
lent.
n ov 26 mscth»m
AD VERTISEMEN T.
Todd Sc Mott,
Oi the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having
afiigned over their effeisU, rtral, personal, ami
mixed, to the fubfcribcrs for the benefit of all j
their Creditors—
Notice is hereby Given,
TO all perfous who are indebted to the said
edate, that they are required to make im
mediate payment of their relpeitivc accounts to
either of the affiguees, in failure whereof legal
nseafures will be taken for the recovery of l'u ch
debts as are not difchai ged without delay.
John Waddington 1
John Rhodes VAfltgnee«.
John Allen. J
nov. 36 tu.rhAfatFi
'l'o be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
For property in the City, or within Thirty
miles of it,
A Valuable Plantation,
IN Tufcorora Valley, MUBin county, containing
ab»ut three hundred acres, the vt hole capable
of cultivation. At present there i» about 50 acr«
cleared, 2o «»f which is a rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, eurichedby a never failing stream, that
has fall and water enough for all the purposes of
a Country Mill. For further information apply at
No. 68, Market flreet.
novemher 20 taw
N 0 T I C E. '
r pHE Stork-holders of the Company encorporat
ed so. ?Sing a Permanent Bridge over the
Rivtr Schuylkill, are requested to attend tlieir
annual meeting on the firft Monday in January
next (being the ;th day of that month) at the City
Hall, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, for the pur
port of choosing a I'refidtnt, twelve Directors and
aTreafurer of the fiid Company for the ensuing
year, as by law is diraited,
JOHNDORSEY, fec'y,pro tem.
dec 17 3awtjJy
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC. ~
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, .fPhiladelphia, who tats
for a few years past been in the fouthcrn States,
has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and mylelf,and by that means b&s defrauded
a number of persons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of letters and papers wkh the
mme* affixed of diver* public chara&eis and repu
table merchants highly rec»mmendatory of laid
Shaeffer; to one of tbefe papers I find my name
fuhferihed, but Ido not know the man ; thefc are
villaiqoiiA ' ll 1 r rrrfc-vfr>t further -
I nave to requelt the printers of rvev\ipapers in the
-United 3iates to publilh this for the benefit of their
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Yrcafurcr of th: United States.
Trent**, Neiv-Jerfey, ">
Oflobar 14, I 798. j
NEIV AOP ELS, PLATS, \
MAGAZINES, &c.
Chalk's Circulating Library.
A r o. 75, North Tbird-firtet.
Proprietor, in compliance with his pro
mises to render this liillitution a complete
source of rational amuiement aod inft-ut'tion, by
repeated acquilitions of e»tertaining and intcreft
ing publications, has sew added to his former
colle&ion Foui Hundred Volumes of miscella
neous comprifing nearly all the latejl
publij/.ed Nrveh and Dramatic productions ;
catalouges of which are ready for dtliverv to
fubferibcra.
N. B. Subscribers, and others, who Hill re
tain Books taken from the Library previous to
the ficknels, are requested to return them imme
diately : the fines will bp charged from the 14th
of November.
For sale,
Fine flavored Imperial, Young ilyfoo, Hvfon,
Hyson Skin., and Souclusng TEAS.
dg c- f/frmgw
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called
SHREWSBURR FARM, iormerly the residence
ot General Joh* Cadwaladar, fituitt on Saflafras
River, in Rent county, Maryland-~-containing a
bout 1900 acres of pritnc LAND, upwards of ?co
ol which are in woo.ls. The Buildings arc all "ex
cellent, and conlift of a handsome Dwelling Honfe,
two la.ge Barns with Cow houses. Stables for fifty
horses, a specious treading floor under cover, a gra
nary, two Jverfeer s houles, two ranges of two fie
ry buildings lor Negroes (»neuf them new ar.d of
brick), Corn houlcs a Smoak hbufc, &c. &c —The
whole Eltate being nearly surrounded by water, it
requires butlhtle fencing, and, has a good Shad and
Herring CBicry. It is conveniently situated for
both y»e Philadelphia and Baltimore markets,with
two landings on a navigable river but a (hort fail
irom Baltimore. There is a large Peach, and two
large Apple Orchards on the premifes;alfo, a rarie
ty of excellent fruits ol different kinds. The foil is
mostly a rich loan The whole will be fold togc
therorr'ivided into fnaller farms(torwhich the buil
dings are conveniently fituatedj as may f»it tbe pnr
haler. The itock on said Farm, coKlidiwg of Hor
des, Cattle, Sheep Icc. will alio be difpol'ed of.
For further particulars apply to doner Hastincs
on the premifes.ortothe fubleriber, inPhiUdelphia.
ARCHIBAI.I) M CAI.L, JVN.
December 12. t)
Notice.
ALL persons indebted to the Ef
tale oi Isaac lii.rAia,bfq decealcd, »re requeu
ed to make ,mm c riiate parent, and ihote havn,. a
ihr*, '? Wd tliaJc will plcafetu furnilh
»ceount. duly MtrOcd 1..r feuleme.u ,0
GKOItGh DAVIS,
Aiiorney in lad to
n / JOHN M 4 KI.\I, jr. Ad'ni'u,
' '3* «.6w
MAYOR'S OFFICE"
KI.MOVEI) to Jj; South J'econd-flreet.
rurs D.-n- published,
Br WILLIAM YOU NG,
Corner of Cliefnut ..nd Seeond-ftrceti
JOAN ok ARC,
An Epic Poem,
By Jitter! Soull-y ; witt nut:Sm
" WE do not hesitate to declare our o D ir;„„
that the poetical powers difplayei in it arc of
very superior kird—Conceptions more lottv aM
daring, fentimenti mote commanding and la
guage more energetic, will not easily be found _
nor dDc karcely a»y part of it fink into l ail|{Uor
« th b glow of feehng, and genius animal the
whole. The language , s> f or t he most *
delled o.i that of Milton ; and not unfrequendv i?
hasaltrong rclift oJ Shakefptare."
Mtntbly H nuu , t vol j
A HISTORY,
Oil AKECDOTKS OF THE
REVOLUTION is RUSSIA
IN THE YEAK 1762.
TranCatcd from the Fre»ch of M. de Rulhiere
With an el.gant B*ad of the late Empref. '
•.The second edition, price 75 cents!
" The ground, of M de Rulhiere 1 * information
seen. .n Jifputable, and his readers appear to have
every re»fon to be iitisfied with his discernment
in unlolding the motives and circumstances that
concurred in bringing about this flrikitur event
" We (hail only aid, that w c have Mdom * met
with m«re foteicOing wiginal anecdotes, than
those that are contained in the little work which
wc have now reviewed."
Apptndixto Afontlly Rniew, vol. u.
cc *9 wf&mim
An excellent Horse fc? Chair,
TO be fold on real isable terms at the Livery
Stable, No. i 8 North Third-Street,
N. B. The Horse belonged to a gentlemen in
one ol the Troops in this City.
dec 17 3awiw
ALL PERSONS,
HAVING claim* againfl the Estate of
SUS Ah AAH LOCKTER, dereafed, are
r«que(led t < present their rtfpetfive accounts to
NATHAN A. SMITH, -)
or I / a,n S
JOHN DORSET, j
nov 9
DISTRICT OF PEMNSYLVANIAVro V, IT~
BE IT REMEMBERED,
1 T THAT on the twelfth day
V ) ot'Auguft, in the twenty-third year of
the Independence of the United Statw of
America, Benjamin Smith B-a-rtpH, of the laid dif
trid, hath deposited in this office the title of a
book the right whereof he claims as author in the
word* following to wit :
"New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
" Nations of America—By Benjamin Smith Bar
" ton, M. D.Correspondent Member of tie Socie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Merabtr of
" the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
" Boston, Correfpondidg Memkerof the Mafla
" chul'ctts Historical Society, and Profeffor of
" Materia Mi'dica, Natural Hiflory and Botany
" in the Univer.'ty of Pennsylvania."
In conformity to the aA of the Coogrefs of the
United States, intitled " An adtfor the encourage
ment of learning by securing the copies of maps,
charts, and books, to the authors and proprietor,
of such copies during the timetther»in mentiootd.'t
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Dift.of Penn*
November a, 1798.
Java Coffee,
t co Bags of First Quality
» mil 1 11111 11 itti noird the lh!p INDIA,
at Mr. Thos. Penrof»'« Wharf, and for sale by
'John Ashmead,
No. 163, South Front-Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
For Sale, on reafonabl: terms,
CofTaes
Baftas
lilack Taffaties, &c.
dec ic eodtf
Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete—J, 4> 6 and 9
jx.ynder*.
CarroiiacJcs, Woolwich proof, with carriages, &c.
complete—l 2, 18 and 14 pounders. %
Cannow powderin kegs of 25lbs. each
Round, double-headed, and canniftcr (hot
Patent Ihearhing copper, bright, aflorted i8 t 20,
22, 24, z6 and 2S or per fquarc foot, (beets 48
by 14 inches, fuitablc for v.-ITcls £pom 100 to
Icoo tons
Copper naiU, bcjts asd spikes
, Boarding Pikts.
Common cutlaflcs
Gunners ftor«s of all kind*
Tin-plates No I—l-3 cross boxes
I'attnt ftiot in calks of scwt. each
I.ondon porter and *»town fte<it, in caflc® of 7 doz.
bottled*
Hartiten ware in cmes, aflorted
For Sale by
SIMON WALKED,
Pin« near 5 th street.
Otslolier 29. co.tf.
Inference Company of North America.
THE STOCK HOLDERS,
are hereby informed, that a itated meeting
of the Company will be held at their Office
ob the Bth of January next, (being the se
cond Tuesday in the Month) for the elec
tion of twenty-five Direftors for thf tiifu
ine year.
E. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Dec. 12 th.
An Apprentice Wanted.
A TOUTN,
Of Reput«ble Connections, & fufticient qua!i!ica< j"nr«
is wanted as an Apprentice to the Bofinels of a No
tary Public and Conveyancer.—inquire ol the Hun
ter.
Dec. fm.sw.
FOR SALE,
No. 7, SoVTH Fofß 1 K-S j KEE *X
1000 pieces Nankeens,
A l'o* of Silks
20 Boxes powdered Sugar Ctndy of
A parcel very line Caflia.
C. HAIGHT.
dec j ja»iw
For Sale,
A well improved Plantation*
Of one hundred and twenty acres,
VKRY beautifully situated in the county
Montgomery, about twenty mile* from t'■
city.—The are ail irevv and fimflie
i.- to tccort niCKlate a gentttcl family i»nty —" r
iurthcr information, tiujuirc at the Penn^y' vul1 **
Coat.ol-Arms, nineteen luiit* from to»»> all£ *
. li.iec al>ovw Mcrris-towt:. .
fa.&w.