V* * » IjT -
rr-t-J . ,_ B y J°» N Fgistitfo,-' r ■^^4'"'
l
CuCcom-Houfe Sales.
ON 7 anuar y J 3» 1798. ,
Monday, the January, 17 at 12
Cullom """ b,; . fold auftion, at the
utlom-Houle, in purfuince of the laws in that cale
made ,nd proved, the following article, of «'!
m ' rC lhan n ' ne
whirh . T V c he ° Wne " thereof t
hours of mac «nd two o'-.l»ck.
M P r T^ OCar '" 8 ' eontaininii',Vo.illea Hats
P ° commnrng Bocrks and P.mphleli
Three cafki, containing Girth Web
(DU) One calk, containing Spades and Shovelt
■VV Four calks, containing Garden Seeds, Peas
* >nd Beans
. IS One kc- of Red Lead,
0 VVC One crate of Earthen Ware
BTM Two do. do.
VV L One do and two cases containing I mages and
ornaments fo'r building
D ma ' k 3. l w( > Matapirs of Bottled Porter
\V Hampers of tmpty Bottles
W B One caik of Bottled Porter
Iho s Jteyhens One bundle, containing pieces of
Music
Mr.Scott. One box containing old Pamphlets
Mr* Aubley* One-box of' Pamphlets
VV A 'Three pipes Madeira Wine
One box of Pewter Lamps
K One box contaiiiin; Brushes
G Holland. One calk containing ajchecfe and some
' oatmeal
yK One crate of Karthen Ware
R. 14. One crate of Earthen' Ware.
'3 ' dt2 9
THE SUBSCRIBER
INTENDING to leave this country in thecosrfe
of the summer for Europe (if he compleats the
1\ of his affairs by that time) and where it
is probable he may refidt as a merchant—rcquefts
every man who has any demands against him to
*"■ "" 11 ! * M| ■ 1 " 1 111 i_ __i f..u
'dement may take place
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jan. I3,l?y!?.
„ TO BE SOLD,
r On FPJDAY, the 30th of March next, at his
dwelling houfs in Chefnui-ftreet, four doors a
bove, f enth-ftreet,
All his houfhold and kitchen
Furniture P-'ate, &c. &c. and which may be view
ed every day for three days before the sale, from
ten o'clock in the morning till one o'clbck, and
from three o'clock inthe afternoon till night.
TO BE SOLD BT PRIVATE SALE,
And if not fold by Saturday, 2 7th January, then
to be set up, and positively fold, at PUBLIC
VEifDUE, at the Merchants' Cofiee-houfe, at
6 o'clock in the evening,
The Subscriber's House, No. 78,
in Walnut-street, two doors below Fourth-street;
is now occupied by Dr. Stevens fpr one year fram
4th November last, at the rent of 4Col.per annuih;
it was rented at the time ps the late fever, er it
would have brought, I think, more. The two
Stables in Walaut-ftreet will be set up separately
-\>r together ; the Jargifl one now yentsfor 551. the
fm-.lk-ft for 451. per annum, and they are fcrched
ana isid in mortar arid two inch plar^.
per Mil/timlor. A large Store
in Fourth ftjreet, 33 feet front by 50 ftet deep, a
good yard Snd neceiTary belonging to it; ®n this
frorc is a ground rent of 11 dplK 75 cents per ann.
this building is rented to the public for eighteen
montnsat 2501, per annum, and tke rent was paid
dpwn ; it might have been rented at the fame price
for three years, but I declined it l«aft it mii<ht hurt
fele. A lot in Fourth flreet, 2o ieet ftont by
50 feet deep", 611 which is a ground rent of 6 dol
lars per annum; it his the privilege of a three feet
alley adjoining the lot.
Should it make any difference to the pufchafcr,
Mr. Mb.ioe will endeavor to prevail on Dr. Ste
vens to give pofieffion sooner, if he can with con
venience. ' " '
PAYMENTS.
Approved notes and indorfers at 6, g, 11 and 18
months; the deed to be'lodged with Wm. Tilgh
niah, Eiu. till theViotes arse paid : On the hotife, I
Edward Stiles, Eflj. has a mortgage fcr 16301. On '<
the flables, Mr. Samuel Williams for 3001. Thef« '
lums may lay as long as the purchaser pleases, pay- j
ing the intered regularly. i
For further particulars, apply to William Tilgh- t
mas, Esq. or to the subscriber, Chefnut, four t
doors above Tenth-ftrfet r
GEORGE MEADE. '
FOR SALEz~ik» 1
TrartS anaTLots of Land,
Of an excellent quality. J
No. 1. Four hundred and thirty acres of excel
lent Land, on the waters of Back creek, Freder
ick eounty, Virginia, on the great road leading to
South branch, about ten miles from Wjncheller ;
one hundred ai.res of which is'rich bottom ; a fine
flreinS running through it, with fevcral f rings;
the trees in the bottom are chiefly sugar maple, -
bhek walnat, hicory and locull; there it a log I
dwelling and out hotifes, some meadow made, and j,
about forty acres of upland cleared ; on this trait
there is a good mill feat, where an under-shot mill t J
might be ere6ted. 1
Nt>. 2. Two hundred and fifty acres, about two °
mile's from WoOdftock; part of this trad is in
cultivation, is finely timbered, and a good quanti-
ty of meadow may be made.
No, 3. Two thuufand five hundred acres on the v
witters of Hewes' riV'dr, Harrifon county, state of 0
Virginia. ™
No. *. Four hundred acres, in eagle town
fiiip, Northumberland county, state of Pennfylva-
pia.
No. 5. An half acre lot in the town of Rich-
mond, Virginia. h|
ALSO, AT PRIVATE SALE, ec
The following trads of Land.
60,oooacresof landinWafhingtoncounty ■) State of
174,000 do. Montgomery j Georgia
31,033 do. Orangebugh diflriil "> State of
142,386 do. Charleston j So. Car.
40,000 do. on the Alleghany river ) State of /
J4>coO do. Weilmoreland county ) Penn.
4*1900 do.. Wythe, Walbington, i State »f " e
and Grayfon counties j Virginia .
20,000 J B . ; n Bedford county.
All which he will fell on the most reasonable j"
t"<ns, and but very little money will be required, '
the remainder may lay upon credit for I, 2, 3, or
4 yearsj security being had upon the lands. P. a
January 13. dt27th dl
FOR S+4LE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn, f®
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, iu 1
eood cor.dition, and would answer the purpose of el
country printer as well as new.
£n<juire of the Primer, rfov. 30.
fHILAD ELf-HIA, FRIDAY EVENi.YC, ' 1
Public Sale of Real Estates.
, On THURSDAY Evening, the icth.of
i* n l xty wilt he e*ptf«*to Public Sale,
at l he Mtrchanti- Coffee-Wc U Second-iUeet,
at 6 o clack in rhe evening, the foltowiii"
t ESTATES.
of; A *• \ '7,° aory v:r,t lUu "■ *'" h ••••■■■
of " ,j4 T lra «>e Builuißg*,on a lot zo feet fro lit *nd
3rr f 9.i aifo,a vatan*. Lot of 40 ftet Iquwe.
j"?j re t pi pn , <r ' e ? <! , cf in l!k T to S" tbcretw. I hi,
intern. ha« m&f*}\ !- r- T . -.4.11 ...
[et, n»Cmtuaitrt £ between
Profit aftd Second-ftrcets, the f.cond hou.'cfrom
Mr. Caleb A&'a.
5 r w*-i. V href story brid! fifuate at
« s 1' n ° rl « east «?»« 0f Ch ' fn " 6.,ng 14
feet 03 Seccnd-flreet, and xo f get on Chcfsut
ft.e.t, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
A klfvri"' °J f°° do,brs > and '» deemed one of
the bed Hand, lor the lib of .fry g„ o dr, in this city
nd 1. •IJ' r Ul ' dfome wett firuflied three ftorV
4>r,ck House so feet front and 103 feet defco, t\J.
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch
,< N "' 40 * , Th " is bu.lt and fiuUheJ
in the modern ltyle, is iq complete repair, with
of d ? uMe c " lhrs under the whole. Theie'i<sa ciPern
o 1 rap water,n the yard ; and the house i, at pr "
A iSl for 6 °° hilars per an»ura with the taxes
p,, N °, 4 " A tot, Cory brick House, situate in
rlumb-ureet, between Second and Third ilreet
icing 20 feet front and Ije feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
(- "'*' r ' c fter y brick House, on the bank
ne fide of ftont-flretti" No. 171 North, K oii lK thro'
to Water-street, where it is fi ye story. It i s 1©
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete rapair,
anu is rented for 600 dollarsper annum.
1 '■' conditions of Sale are, one qaarcer dish,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months'
©lie quarter in t2 months,
jj® Philadelphia, fan. la, 1798, ,-jawti?F
it To be fold,
is A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, coijt*.
- £ uricKtTmrfe and Kifr*if» 't- -,>r ».■
Orchard, See. ti>u»t« .i,. irtibmiik l*6c;-te.tV : •
townthip of M«yamenfing, about one mile fron
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
118 T-lf • , , , I
1 he improvements upon this place, for talle and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December 1. ritf
The Subscriber intends to make
m application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
d iii the Bank of the United States, standing in the name
of A. B. Mo. 5004, dated July 11, 1797, the fame
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1. 46w
'c ROSS & SIMSON, ~
HAVE FOR SALE,
, A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
'' a quantity of Bengal COTTON
: > Bengal SUGAR, in bags arid boxes
31 Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
it and Bengal J
0 300 calks RICE, tnd >
T A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
d
f and Mustard,
a rnar,ufaaurt(J ,
1. Alt an,j Cyder ,■ rauiiton arid Burton A!e
j Lilbon Wiae,
Ti? r exportation or liome conftimptioK.
e The highell price given for Mu!(ard, : Seed.
t A.so fit fait', A quantity of, Bocki'ne and:
r common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of:
Euilians, Shawls, &c, for iaie by
1 JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 58, south Pront-flreet.
* "<">■ m.&rh.t.ij.
■ Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
, Seven Dollars, at \Vm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
i and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Sec®nd-orect !
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
. pjlars, where check books are kept (or register
ing and examining in these, the City of Wafhing
tou, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informs-
tion where tickets may be had in molt of the Lotte
ries authoriftd by law in any of the States of the
Union.
leifitrg alThnnds** of"PuHlic Stock and Securities,
Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, lioufes, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
tiovemhtr Is. §
MUSIC. '
J. L. LENZ,
RTJeacher ot Vocal and instrumental Music,
ETURNS hiafincere the Ladies and |
. Gentlemen, from whom he r&ceived a very J
Hberal encouragement since his residence in this ci- 2
( ty, and informs his friends and the pub- '
he generally, that, in confequcnce of the rsqueft hi
of some of his friends, he has opened a Musical gi
Sch»ol at his houfa in Spruce Street No 174, where W
he will teach ok the forte, Violin &c. &c.— fa
Ke deenjs it unnecessary to enlargs upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inftjtuti
on'of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and zeal are much excited in an aflsmbly, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame obje'il. His
arrangement is such, that an iuterference of the
the different sexes will be avoided. Thoie Ladies
arid Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
attend at! his school, he will Wait upon at their
houses. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hi" houft, where bis terms and further parti- ft
culars may be known. 1 y
Dfec. 7. «xweod jjj
NOTICE.
\ LL persons concerned are hereby notified,
fjk. chat the fnbfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of th<f undermentioned loft certificates of
I Stock in the B«nk of the United Stat^ —He for* _
warded them under cover of a letter aildrefTed to
John Anfley,of London, by the (hip Bacchus, capt.
G-eorge, which left this port m jiine la/I tor Lon
don. But that ffiip Having been captured 011 her
paiTage and feutto France, the above letter and in- J
closures have failed in their deftinatiun.
"three certificates, viz. W
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for *
four (hares, da(ed January ill, 1797, and Sai
iflued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot- Pa
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
2ACCHEUS COLLINS. i
Philadelphia t nevtmlcr 8. 2aw6\v j
For Freight or Charter,
° f Pqrt :n
p to' . 1 !t ' ' a ' J
<<> Jyt-'p'y Anthony & Co.
s»»
N.'cKlln C!f Griffith
at Ar the,r Store op - ' A ' alni " st.-« t ;vLa!r—
I, . _ have Foa SALV
lt 5? cf Jamaica Rum
he M jde, . r £ U ' ,ne i" and hh4s.
of TeECTI®! do. 11l pipes
:y Oil Port do. in hfcds.
T f* 1 «Of artery and eighth* of c l, e ft s
u- ® a " Canyfcfs, N«. i," to 8
h- r)imit4es >"Ginghams, and Muflinets, in patka
ed efor thc 'Weft l"sia Market
th ails aborted
rn Wack qdart bottles
c- Queens ware iu l.hds. and crates
. 1 eifovr elehre dry in casks ;
J And at New-York, onboard the
p t ftip Di ajia, round
as loon as the navigation is open,
it Fine Liverpool Salt
o' Coils >
to liuaoift Brown "J
r, Venetian Red |
Purple Brotrn ! •
h, P«'eat white <" s^S
it, V.'hite lead I
fted lead J
Colcotharvitriol if.
jtSo bandit S*at.nliin~
i ijfr'nc I_. *■ t L .. j 1
N. is.*! The late firm of PiilipNicklin sis Co.
-*> iff dow changed to
e NICKLIN &fGRIFFITH.
re January i. eodtf
■! * ■ - __ ______
k For Savainah,
TO SAIL THE FIRS' OPENING,
" j The si failing (hip
M&mg- SWIFT PACKET,
J Patrick >*ibb*n, Master,
d NOW lying he firft wharf below
arkct Stret—has handsome ac
commodations for paflengers—For freight or pas
sage apply to the Matter on bard, or to
N. £s? J Frazer,
No. 95, Snth Front Street.
Who have on hand, mdfor Sale,
Prime Rice, in whale anil !alf tierces, Georgia
and Carolina Isdige, Molafle, in hhds, Teneriffe
wine, &c. <S{c
>, December 27 3tawtt.
lor Gharlefton,
*j - j TUB.,SHIP
;;
' i '*!&s£s&■ tl * S2 y tmui
; i OHE will take Freight oil very
I j O low terms, and fail the fir#
f} opening. Apply to the master on board, or to
Jos. Anthony £sf Co.
Detember-,8
For Anifterdam,
.iJg£t F R M P E R,
Joun M'Co-tLOM, Master;
WILL fail in- a few days, the
part o£ tier cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to the master ou board, at Walnut
ftreet Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, «ut of the from liour
dcaui, and F«r Sale,
Claret in hhds.
KJv>, STiSfcyg -
Feniiniac,
Sauterne, C Wines in cases
Lumlle, )
Prunes in boxes
november 14. |
For Londonderry,
T«E BRIG AN TINE
ILL,AM Whitten, Master.
A strong good vessel, about two j
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a (
great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at £
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas- /
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenlerger 's icburf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov 1 8. § n
For Sale or Charter, f
J||lr GOOD HOPE, e
jJas2v®s Will carry about I*oo barrel,and
Hijsjel read y t0 ta ' tea cargo. For terms I
Pragers & Co. ft
No. 151, South Second-street. S
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lilbon, and Teflcriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
• THE SHIP a •
Sally Butler,
JCaptain-Gmisholm,
i- a Ufw vessel, with excellent
cSeafiS' accommodations for passengers
Sails on the 10th of December. For Freight or an
Paflage, apply to ROSS & SIMSON. a I
Who have to difpofd of y or
A fmatl invoice ot GT. AUbf.R. SALTS Fii
INDIGO-, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. § o
The Subscriber
J?Jr?OU.VTS thoft whom .t may inte;eftor con
mtD * t t! " C of ibß Csurtff Cqawpxi
- j «>Wtfd Xlonhy, the ttve 'y ' ; *' A day ct
® "HS? ut their atton'Jaacr is deSrcJ..
I -sp., „ GREF.NIWe^*
\ To~ Be' Sold,
' \ GHEEAyj.y to'.helaftwill aad testament of
f J- *■ WiLmu Hrvsham, dececfed, and pcdT f.
' ! P v valuable proberry in Arch
. Viet, i.rwoer. Third and Fourtli ft. tet., coniift.
'•'.ftof the hoafe, Ko. rot, with tly; b-t cn which
" is ere<2ed,"a luliis, and other improvements.—
Tftehmife is 10 feet front an J coptzilis. ten goo.l
ap»rtm»nts. The lot it qf tlie l'amc breudtb as the
"its houfeand icg feet dctp, vich a Water aud
a very capacious walled cittern, botl» ««i'Ji pqmps
tka- m goop repair. The fta'jlc riaijdi on thi-rcar of
. lot and will four and a car-
This property ei'jojrsthe pei pet'iul priviWe
i 16 feet court andun dey, 8 feet wide,exteiid
, lugs, Chsrry Street. Ititenfral volitlou ani the
j advances it to free ventiU
he t,on .' " vve " W#»|»y the attention (J any
I perlen wiihinj to pofitfset eligible property in Plji
und . ladelphia, ; r ■ ■
For iurther p.-.r;iculai4 enquire at No 88, Vine
Street— (> f
■RoßritT Heyshak, ~S
t* _° r if fAd)iue Executors.
Francis Bowrs Sirß,x, j
' Jantiary II
j W. HAY DON, 3
j &b ua t!j r a s. Drawing—from London,
j Has studied .y««?f..uftdw.ontf
*1 • fy- ; Vlt" is t-«' L - '■ -
j Jarri to *W ""&*■ tiia, at
: - -''V*! ne if fere aj« twp I
iuoM! qr-j: T
A '' nc diredled to W. H. left at the office of this
, Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
-0- January 9. £ iw
~ FOX SJLBt ]
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Ctf Co.
No. 8, Chuinut-ftreet,
One hunarcd and eighty bales c
• BENGAL GOODS, <
p Amongst which are, „
t j Gur rahs Mamoodies
Baftas Sannas j
IW Guzzenahs Tanda CofTaes c
lc . Guzzies Emertics
if. Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
them are a great proportion of the
manufafiures of Patna.
December 1. § 1
ria N CTT IC E. j
ffe n
ALL per£bi)s who have any demands agvnft n
_ ths estate of \Yillam Fleewtood, of b
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de- a
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts, I
properly aiteJled ; a (id thol'e who are indebted: ii
to tbe fame, are desired to make immediate C
payment, to c
J " ' GEO. DOBSON, >.. . ,
1 1l No. 25, So. Third-flreet. \ Adm ""f" r ~ -
' to January 4, dtf
DANCING SCHOOL.
~ TT7"ILLIAM M'DOUGALL f.efcnts his p
V*; ijiojl refpeillulcompliments.to his form- S
er oqinlcysrs and the citizens iu general, fJid re
turns his' grateful thanks, for the very 1
bountiful he has expetienced for c
tnefe twenty-five year: puft, takes this opportu- V
he nity of informing them, that his school i 3 now
"g open, at bis
£ Elegant Ball Room, f
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Wajr.Ut-ftreets. 'to brgin at Ho in the morning
|r _ fox young laidies, and 6in the evening for young
gentlemen. i
Dec. 8. lawtf. 11
_J L "*■ 1 1 i~i 1. ■■ ~"S
FLAX for SPINNING, ;
Tobegiven out,every second, fourth, and sixth
day moraing, between the liours of 10 and 11—
back.of no- 52, south Fifth street-, ahove Spmce
ftrect. codiw
Prison iVianufa6lory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of allfizes, from 3fly tt) ipdy
ro Flooring Brads, Spriggs, laddie, and card Tacks
a Oakum and chipped Logwood
" Shocmakets and Sadlcra Thread
f- Aifo—Savred Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tpmb and Uoqcs, liearths , chimney pieces, T
platforms, slabs, facii, window beaJi, c . j-
All which may he had on reasonable terms, ,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at 6
a model ate price.
Orders from a diilance, dire&ed to Daniel Tho- ,
ma', agent for the prison, will be attended to. l
Imported inthe.fIiipMANCHESTERj in:
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Beutfleaux, and forfale 'oy the subscriber, „
(j No. ii, Walnut Stiect. i,
s Bonr4eaiix Brandy "J p /
Irxfh, market, claret in cases ( Entitled -to '
Medocwiite, in do. l" DrawbacL
Sauterne, do. do. J
1 Thomds Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS.iFOR sale.
. Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casks T,'
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulheLi Liverpool fait. are
- ply
~ TO LET, " *»'
A front Parlour, suitable for pre
an Office ; a Room, lurnifbedor unfumilhad ; aud
a large Cellar, which will fcrve either for florage
or a bottling cellar. Enquire at no. 24, South
Fifth-llreet.
Boarding Lording to I c hai- Enquira as a
nTt J.'n 6v—*jt I
§.»?•
War-Oilice of the United States,.
W„ ( , January tht if, 1798.
HEREAS fraud, have L-ecn pridiicd, in
ohtaiuin. Warrant* for Bono:)- Lands, du_-
'• tncOfKc-n and "wldiirs *f the lite CoMine&tul
ii^rt^'^i^r"*i' r 'i iSfi 'n"nj£u-rti
•wfaTuk
N»PVi®ty lands, wliOTcr in their own right- <u
-i« x »f-» Sr rrrom.tWF- > orhy #Tf nffif unient
° r /- ?°* be ttMi-rcd t« forward thar
tffo&pe cl»jmt to the War Office, on or befcrc
the firft cny o* Jtmjtry 1739 i„ urd cr that such
cliyaf m;.y be duly adj«(ted and Utter-
Wiped upon.
To fubftsntiate such clahr.s, a ftriit ofcfervance ~t
the rules heretofore iffucd from th» War Office W ill
be lOuifpeiiUbJe ; and in addition to w!ot is requir
ed by the-faid rules, th« ccrtific»tc of the acknow
leumnwit of a Deed or Power of Attorney, must
a.so let forth the place of rdidence .nd occupation '
of the claimant or person making fuel* a JtnowlecK
gienr ; and when the proof of perianal knowledge
■shy a w.tnrfH orwltncffe., their place or places of
rcfideocc must be f c t forth i„ like manner.
JAMES M-HtKRY, Scc'y of War.
J 3 "-?' d6w
Doctor Hush's
Literary, Moral, and Philofophieal
» • , &S.SAYS.
Vt .vw/, Qftavo./
1 his Day 11 Publilhed,
By 'Thomas & Samuel f. Bradford,
No. 8, South From Streot,
_ ( Price two DtllaisJ
e.(Tays. Literary, Moral and Philosophical,
By Benjamin Rush, M. D.
/lid Profeffii"! of the kil'ututes of Medicine, and
fit Pxefj,
-■ speedily W j t l b< publilbed,
PERRIN',
T -1 '
'•rcutting Library.
JOSEPH E. O. M. De La GRANGE,
No. ue Walnut-street,
fNFORMS those who wish to recur to she only
L means of becopiin c perfedl in the French Lan
uage,that he has just opened his Librars 1 , con
fting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the best cal
ulated to afford either ufeful indruaion, Or plea
are. The conditions, togethur with a catalogue
f the Library, may be seen at every book-fellcr's
) town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
■nglijh and Spanish Languages, executed with ac
uracy and dispatch. eoim nvu.
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, &c*
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine-street, near the New-Market,
ETURN thanks to their friends and the
pnhliCj for their liberal encouragement,
nd hope, by their unremitting attention, to
lent a continuance of their favors. The Part
erlhip between them and Joseph B. Barrv, has
een diflolved by mutual' consent. Cavanagh
nd Hearn have just received a quantity of St.
Jomingo and Honduras Mahcgony, which they
itend to ftll on very reasonable termss forcafh.
)»d;rs from the country mod pundiually txe
uted, Vioeers of all kinds cut-as ufnai.
Jan. if, aaw4w
gr The owners of the Brigantine
leix-ury, William Uroti, master, captured by
Spanioi privateer and fold at Ceuta in Jaft De
btor, may receiveintereftiwg information ref
edling her, by applying to the Department of
tate.
, T | le P rin te« in the sea-port towns of
he United States will render a ferviqe to the
oncerned, by inferring the above in tbeir news
:: pers - ran-,.
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
10. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front street;,
\ large quantity of Clocks and
batches. Alfa, x general affcrtment of Tools
.lies and Materials, ccr.Ufling. of Clock Move
ments, eight div and thirty-fcmir Lrafs _
' t ciOvK TJiIk
Glaffes, Pumice Stone Emerv
.otten Stone Cac Gw ; bench, fland and tTi'l
* * Annr l-' Ch ?' ns > s «!', Keys, &c. &c
* Appfentices Wanted.
ffctntf
Landing this day,
rom on board the l'chooner Two Friends, Dan«
„ , , , Mafter,
«5 hhda. and 1t- „ . nr „ _
n pipw | Jamaica RUIVI,
for sale by
George Latimer tsf Son.
vofemher 9, ,
FOR~sale7TF~ :
Wm. Young's Book Store,
V " d /' f K Ct ; , the corncr of Chefnut street,
ir.EPOR r of tht Committee of the House ef
V Reparatives ofthe United States, appoint!
: q 01 Representatives, authorizm? the fa. I
..Witteeto fit during the reef* ot Ccngrefs, j
them - t0 cn(Juirej an(i _ "fjj
of"rhe* ff d '' cover th = whole nature and ert ac
of the offenceAvhereof the laid William Biour.t
pecltrf; ofthe
~N OTIC K. ~~
' hrjldcr * of JAMES GREENLEsIF,
. tonfeqnence of many havin.'been prevent
P. trom , late unavoidable circumftancts from
aamng their Cert.ficates agreeable to femur
* ruftees noiv inform them, tbev
ready WifTue the fame to those who may a„-
w'thinfi'ftf days, at No. 8 Chef.a.t Sirft,
1 those not, m ill be confi.lercd a - re l
juifhi'ig their claim 0 n the Apg-reeate a
vided for their payment. SS * 1 U,ld '
HENRY PR ATT,
THT MAS W, Fk'/UVCIS
JOHN .vurx Eß , jav '
\ JOHN ASHLE Y, «
JACOB BAKER.1 the g'lides of fv-i£J?t politics, no longer de
| serve her confidence ; and must defend her
, injured rights with the spirit of a free, f uTL ''
| reign and independent nation. A Hate of
public affairs is near, or rather is coinc, when ren
cement is *ec«flary to preserve.the union, ext
If a certain party have a diftinti nbjeft, tm
which I hope tii?y have not, it ii»a fep4r3- t4
tion of the states; when the southern part is of
■to be put under the care and proteftion o thi
»the French republic. It is hitbtr their re- by
' gular and unceatiifg course of political aftion bu
j has tended. Fiom a lot so difaftroXJS, the arj
1 Lord save those states."
:
In the Honfi of Lrfird*, Nov. 8; Lprd fa
Vjfcojint Duncan, being introduced between a«
Lord Hood aird Lord Viscount Newai*t tb
:" »he I ord CtMniCcllor ruse to commnni- 1 so
cate to h m i:i his place the mnnimpus «o
thanks of the house, which he did in a rery eij
handsome speech. He said that as a <lark. en
of Particular refpeft for his Lordillip, the a,i\
House hid been a thing ai un Tt
precedeiited as the glorious at*hievcmfnt wl
which had given life to the proceeding, th
He had, in compliance with the voice of the an
Hotife, to communicate to bim theirthanks hy
for his aiWvity and talents displayed in the ivi
course of the thret years he had command
ed the fleet stationed in the North Seas: for <Ol
his firmnefs and spirit upon the trying pfr pr
cafioa wher he was deserted by a ow
lWs fleet in a ftattof mutiny; and,■ inline, va
for his gallant co»duft in the of the a«
11 th of Oft. which terminated in a brilliant tf-;
and decJGve vJftot', unexampled in the na- G
rs val annals of this «ouhtryj a 'viftory which T
essentially contributed to tVe fafsty cF this tri
m empire, by fru ft rating the prtfumptuoas de- u{
ie (igns of the e»emy. ' f' l
'f Lord Viscount Duncan said, that as he bt
' was not much accustomed to fpe*k in pub- fe
3 ' lie, he (hould confine Mfnfelf to a very few p,
,s words. He felt the deipeft gratitude for ui
le th,. .h» had conferred !r
\'i <jt>o !'••• -fA ; e5 ' t,:o v ' Jr 'r 0
uromid w; : v. 4: v
I ~k, *r :• W .It "fg '-j <-■
'.• ith-e'i ~ Ltf - ;M- r-aJi j a
" That an humble address be prefeutcd to e
" his Majesty, assuring him that w : e have ta- al
3 " ken into our most serious coniideration the a!
papers w/iich had been laid on the Table rg
latiYeto tba negociation forpcafee; that in ft
ie the which had-been taken we have d
recognised the pacific disposition evinced by a
>e his Majesty thioughout the whole of its 1
j| pregrefs, and observed the inveterate hoftil- t<
ity of the'enemy, that while on the one vi
| s hand his Majesty has given an example of o
the greatest moderation, the enemy on the ti
other have abandoned every pacific difpofi- t<
tion; that they entertained the most deter- w
mined hatred and animosity to the Conftitu- h
e tion, laws and liberties of this country; that o
'' the deftruftion of cur confttution and gov- d
ernment ii the objeft at whicl* - they aim; t>
that we are determined to defend, at every /
0 hazard, his majesty's person and govern- tl
V ment; that we know that great exertions y
are necessary; but that, nottVitliftanding, we li
are prepared and refolvcd to stand or fall p
with th; coplitytioD* laws, and liberties,
upon which the happiness of every class of
community essentially depends."
j The address being read by the Lord
. Chancellor, was then put and carried nem.
:* .
' , Further ExtraSsfrom 7~oa/tG's EJfaji.
' " Our yw philosophers likewise teH us,
1 that "it is absurd for one generation to {c
11 chooft a forra of govfrnment for awather,
or for any generation to make laws for pof- |;
terity ; and therefore no succeeding gener- te
j ation is bonnd to adhere to that government fu
which their fathers set up, nor to submit to tr
' any rulers whom themselves have notccho w
e fen."—But if this doftrine is once admit
e ted, there is an end to all government, of
® all commerce, and of all lociety, civil and e i
religious. If men could not choose a go- nr
-> make laws for posterity ; then p
1 of every nation, behoved to be changed ev-
ery day. Every day almost a thosfand per- Q
I sons die in Britain ; an .equal number are el
born ; and some hundreds at least come of a
age. He that comes to age to day may
!* fiy—" I never consented to the form of go
vernment now fubflfting ; I never had any
' voice in the choice of the ruling powers, *
or hfthfe flrtkittg fcf any laws.' 1 will there
e fore be fubjeft to no laws til] I' myftlf have a it
e part in the making of them ;.nor will I fiib- ii
e mit to< any government, till I, in conjunc- w
s tion with my cotemporaries, have framed a 0
constitution for ourselves." He that comes '
0 of age to-morrow may argue in the fame
manner, and'iofift for a general couventipn, t ]
in which he (hall have a voi.ee, by himfelf b
!" orhis representative, before he will fubmtt
y to any government or any law whatsoever- f"
II Surely then, we /hall have conventions and
conftitutions in great abundance ! v
■) «« Neither scripture nor reason give an ex
.' clufive fanftion to any particular form of t]
government. Owing to the differences of t
national charafter, of fituatioit, and pur- o
suits, one kind of government may be pro- 11
jj." per among one people, and a different con- 6
ftit'uti*>n may be better adapted to the cir-
t eumftances'' of another. Thus, a mixed ,
government "has been found most congenial 1
to the people of Britaiu : perhaps a rep»>b" t
u lican government is more adapted to the cir- 1
j eumftances of oui brethren in America : :
e . and from recent events, it may be fufpefted,
5 that hard as their situation was, while the
king's wtH-vras their lawj monarchy "is the
le only g'jvcintr.ent suited to the constitution
levity and ferocity of our neighbors in
France. There have been instances of 11a
, ticf-.s flourifhing and happy under different
L forms of government. And every govern
,ci"* ment is capable of degenerating iuto tyran
lca ny, oppression, and anarchy in the hands of
a corrupt adininiftration. Hence there is a
0 r great deal of truth in Mr. Pope's maxim,
-or u j which is keS adffiiniP.tred U best-"
From a DeJham ( Ahpitym) ? <K* r - J"
*
IXPATKIATIOS. , tanc
: IS right and proper for a citizen to mi g
i renounce his citizeiifnip'at pleasure-? The kct|
. exercise of this right has beencalled «/*- bur,
, Iriation. ' Many ptrfons think it ii gjronnd
- e4on the sacred and unalienable principle-.
sof natural liberty—they uot only condemn
>f thole goYe~rOfncnts wbich refufc to wer
- by their laws, the dodtrine of cxpatriatiop, pen
n but they hold these who in ccrtverfattoji apd foil.
A argument deny it, j* sovereign contempt, if
not abhorftttce. . djet
The natUtv of this doctrine, (he fhamc-
d fultraiifa4Uonf.it has been -pretended to s
u agUy-ifcf, 4nid th(£;(wguljr vehemence of ,i,ei
, the zt»l of it» a.ij b*ljey<jrs, are wis
i- so many, yf our mu»<fcr. . .It Was Vat
is pot so much p fa* I,x , J t ,
y eight pnod that Wl 1 ', to the
k. end of tiifle,. ranwkable for the pervyffeneft cgn
e aid extravaatnee of its Jjoliucal opinions. . n .
i' It seems as•* we live<! in the latter tunes, he i
t when,' it S foutold, some (hall depart frOm the
:■ the faitb, giving heed to seducing fphus, <*t
e and do&rines of devils, speaking lies-in
;s hypgenfy, having their conscience feared [na
e with a hot iryn. Is it not such. a doitrine, j
1- t-Hat in a republican state, a man owes Lis he
>r country nothing, that he has a right to claim he
> protection from the society but return ;'
f owes it no duties—that he may equip api i
vateer, in defiance of the law of the land,
e attd make of the veflels of his coun- j nl ,
it tfymen and even neighbors afid kindred, l»ke to
i- Gideon Henfield and Commodore Barney.
h This is the nature of thti principle of ful_
is triation, and such has been : the practice
upon it. . Can any doctrine appear.more ab
surd or any sonduft more vile ? yet a »um
te ber of the p;raus that prey upon our de
y fencelefs Commerce plead this monilrous a
w pology that tl.ey are French, ctthens, failing mi]
or under a commiffipn, and thu« they c j o
sd irtinmrip tljrv U«~. « J-Xr»i-2 . t
'•i l'oi\-to *otu.« ao»i :«&■•#£ i 'l.
:fi..»f.sfcsn must «*<f ,>*,:
Vtfv tT'.-.tr:'; rule needs e: •
r> - ' c<sfisfc», for ■vthout them i; >nii/,i I
n : {ttuies hard, sbfurd. Pv» 1 • . . -' '.
) ■ " _ u __ JjJ
moll rigot' any exception what- Pre
to ever, it is mot rational and jud than the sto
a- absurd and licotious principle of expatri- Inc
he ation at pleafur.
e- A duty to ott's country i 9 a debt—and
in surely the cbunty may rightfully claim that
ve duty. When : citizen fays he is expatri-
sy ated, it is deayig, not paying, the debt.
ts The prattlers abut expatriation are desired
il- to folv<- this cfe: When gen. Arn«4!d ,
ne would have berayed Weft-Point and fled ri^
of on discovery, dl he not renounce hjs coun-
he try? tliat is'tofay, was he not expatria- ,
si- ted! bad he ben overtaken in his flight, -vj
•r- would it not live been jnft to have hung
u- him ?•—A jury Vas picked up in the streets
at on purpose to acbit Gideon Henfield in the "°
v- day of Genet's glory. Barney has not €<J
11 i been profeenttd. A due consideration of
r y Arnold's cafe wll aflift the mind to decide
n- this impudent priblem, which so ma»y pri-
n». vateering rafcalstiave proposed to the pub- ,
*'e lie to make it bi believed that they rob u-
all pon pttadple. ~ -• : w "[
:s ' - mil ii ' ~gf to!
CONGRESS.
I d HOUSE OP REPRESENTATIVES.
cl;
WEDNESDAY TANVARY I?. C y
(Concluded from yelterd;.j>\ Gaztette.) ( w <
' On motion of Mr Gregg, the hmfe went in- mi
10 t<J a committee of tffe whole 011 ti.e report of
T » the comorn tee of elaims on thepetitirtii of VVil- qj
'f- liam Alexander, surveyor of .irn.y iarals. As-
T- ter reading a number.pf relative tn the .
nt fubjeil, the report which * ent to authorift the 0
to treasury to fettle the accounts of th« petitioner,
was agreed to. The committee rose, Hie fioufe in
concui red, and a bill was diredVed to be brought pi
1 " in acanrdiogly. as
°* Mr- Pinckney, from the committee appoint- j. ]
id ed to confer with tile Senate on the dingree
o- ment betwixt the two houles, on the payment c
en of interest to Gen. Kofciulko, repoited, thattind- re
- IHKI it 4r 'i Lul ■' g.;. y a L -ft*
v ~ to the amendment of the senate, as by the moue
• r " originally proposed, the committee rtommend- rc
re ed it to the house to recede from their disagree- m
of ment to the fenatt's amendment,
ay The recommenilatioh was concurred in by
o- the house. . m
- lV ihe house took up and agreed to the senate 6 er
amendment to the bill prefer.bing the mode of ; ;
rS ' taking deflions. ' tc
" e ' On motion of Mn Harper, the house resolved p
-a itfelf into a committte of the whole Mr. Dent
b- in tlie chair, on the report of the c mmittee of
ic- ways and means for providing fur the expentos
[ a of the civil department fhr the year 15192. and
g the blanks being filled, except in a few cafen, (in b
which they were left in blank) according 10 th« ' 0
nc estimate whkh had been laid before the house, c
,n > the committee rofe,the haul'e concurred and a j (
elf bill was ordered to be reported accordingly,
nft A meflage was received from the Senate in
er. forming the house that th y-had pasTed the biil
nc j suspending the aS relative to foreign coins, and e
also that for the payment of certain intercA due h
to gen Kofciulko. H
• x " Mr. Sitgreaves wished to call the attention ms 0
°f the house to 4 fufcijeil which he thought wor- j
of thy of notice. Several of the jnurnala of the
Ur- old congress "held under the confederal on, were '
ro . now out of print, and become so scarce, that f
»n- gentlemen defied to serve in congress, and who v
were entitled to not able to obtain
nr " them. These volumes, he said, contained ma
*?° ny ordinances and resolves which were still the
nal i aws 0 f t ] lc an d the copies of which ought
»'b" to be multiplied The fame ebfervatiuns would
cir- apply to many reports of heads of departments '
:a . and cijmmitttes made under the jfrefefitgovern- t
. j mfnt, the copies of which were to be f»und 1
' . ' in the clerk':. as ifi the libiatiea of mem
ie inrs wlhx had been esmrfutlir prefervihg them. .
% He ihowjiht-ii ot imfOrtance, therefore, ihat
tion topics of thele fhoirM be te'ubipTitd and .pre- '
i in lerved. For t>oth these purposes he proposed a
11a- lefolutiou to the folioiving-efTcin, wh.ch was a- ]
rent g'eedjo, and a committee of three appointed
em " I'efolved, thata committee be appointed to
conftder and r. port upon the expediency of re-
j 4D * p intir.g at the public expence, such volumes of
■* the journals of Congrrefs under the old cc nftde
•s a ration, and such reports cf the neii's cf oevart
n. ments and committees v' both houses of Con
gress, at are cut of print, or are thought to be I
nectlTary to the due uhdii'Binding of iliffait' prfJjx
of government." . cfFcft
Mr. Siigreaves said, it was of equal I'tipnr- t |, e y
tanc?;to guard againlt this e»d in future. 1 is f ame
might be done by altering the present mode ot ,
keepiag the journal* »f thehonfe. Every mem- -
ber, h* said, mull now fee that the journals
were, i.i a dejfree, useless records, which till ti
contained ao fort of valuable information, ex the r
cept to members, and to them only during the an d ;
session ; but, for fubfhntial information, they el
were absolutely ufele)j, and not worth the ex
pence of printing. He, tbi refore, moved the
following, which was agreed tu :
" Res lived, that the fame committee be in- i
to feiinfider fftid rfporr upon the expe-
dieney nf altering the Torai cf keeping the jour
nals of this house "
fl#r- that there apo
theu fut<jd*woi thy. u> I'ufiie which A
was "n tome degree connected w':.. thele.. It rT '-J rn
waVthis Th-i" weretVo irlclpi;es frotft trie of t
Prtfuleirt of the UnrteS Stales relative to the t f, e ,
rati§fc'<Uicm wfTfic Aa tire t m
tioo, which were riosv. bteosie 1 part, fciirhe
constitution, ypOU wh c'l 110 order lad been •: ai
■n. It was jirguer that foint notific*ticri Ibou!J w< *®
he made *»f these amendments having becrnie whtc
the law of the lirj'd VV'htch was the be ft mode ney,
of doing this, lie c"id know ; W# in order JJ ar
that lomethitrg fb< uld he done in the hulineU, j-j
fie move,d that rht y be referred to a feleil com-
mitke. —Agreed. -
iVlr. Sit; reaves faiij he nnderftood, froffi what Ineo
he had fe?n in tt e newfpapei s, and from w hat road
he had heard fimV his return, that confiderablf ing,
impatience bad beew ihewn in a part of the the
house, in flis abferice, for the report of articles p or t
ofiißpeachment against William Blouitt. He r
fuppjifed it was not uecf iHry he thould now go '
into a ftatemeot of the reasons which had led
to the delay —though, .( it were neceflary, he tbe
doubted not, be could explain the fubjeS to the lfiid
fuH c. iviftion of everv member. He 01.lv the
rose, however, to fay, it the courts 6f two an d
or three day , he (houluiuake the repoit. nex .
v ; Aujourneji ij
7" o a K'
Thursday, January. I«. ®
The Speaker laid before the houfea com-
munication from the Secretary of War', in-
doling ap estimate of tire appropriations ne- ,
. >l4ing a treatly with the Cher
i, whish was i« fubftatice as
*rmrr red
IMh. ■ J
laifiionsrs, 90 days at eig^t
lay - - - i,i6o Wa
| In.' nces o r do. - - 360 Wi
i ur dollars per day ;-o' 360. „ r0
-Cataon**.. -.woo Indiana - -r MSiOoo
Prefenti to the ludiaas - - s>°oo
Stores for the CommiQioneri - - 2,c00 P 0 ' 1
Incidental enpences ... t.coo I
add
25,880 j[j e
This statement was referred to the com- (
mittee of the whole to whom was referred -j
the former melTage of the Prelident on this m - t ,
fubjea. , the
Mr. Tillinghaft called up his resolution erei
refpefting a repeal of the Stamp Aft, which
was referred to the fame committet of the a)ct
whole to whom was referred the report of n
the committee of ways and means on this.
fubjeft. . in (
Mr. Sitgreaves, from the committee ap- aiJ( j
pointed op the fubjefl of William Blount's
confpiraey, made a supplementary report,
• containing the depofitiou of Abranam Hoi
den, of New York, which seemed to imply
that T. P. Riplv (whose evidence related
to what he had heard cm"-" I3 J)
been supplied with money by the Spanilh
Mini Her. llf , I,v f d at . New-York,
vvpeft he was in needy circuraltances. lie «y>
told the deponent that be bad received 2QO Te
dollars from hirn, and was. to have more. ,0 "
This report was ordered to be printed. I
Mr. 1"). Foster,. from the committee of Fit
claims, made a report on the petition of Lll- 20(
cy Clark, widow of Thomas Clark, which 1
was in her favour, and was committed fonto j'j
■ mortow. \
f" Mr. Findley presented the petition of de<
: Clement Biddle, of this city, in behalf of
sundry Europeans, poffefled of certificates of
I of the debt of the United States, which ca]
I was-barred by the fedion of the aft mak- Ch
s ing provision for the publia debt, which he f°'
t prays mays be excepted from its operation,
as the pcrfons holding the claims had no
* knowledge of the law. Referred to the w'
j committee of the whole to whom was refer- 'fl'
red the fubjeft of confidpring the propriety m;
r frr " n a ' g ope - ra - ~
e Mr. Clopton from the committee of en- da
rolment, reported the bill prescribing the ge
mode of taking evidence in cases of conteil- ta
ed eleftions, and that providing for the pay- so
ment of interest on a certificate due to Gen- lal
s eral Kofciulko, as duly enrolled. m
if The following mefTage with'the papers ga
to which it refers, were received from the a I
Prefident of the United States:
Genllenun of the Senate, and ('
Gen'elmen of the House of Reprefcnlatinet,
d " A reprefentatfoii has been m»de to me
n by the Judge of the Pennsylvania Diflrift
of the United States, of certain incunveni- ft
e » ences and disagreeable circumstances which g<
3 have occurred in the execution of the law d<
palfed oh the 28th of May 1796, entitled, N
jj "An aft for the relief of Persons imprifon
id ed for debt." as well of certain dou'jiLS w-hiib le
ie havebecn raised concerning its conftru&ion. bi
This representation, together with a report tl
of the Attorney General on the fame fubjeft ci
r " I now transmit to Congress for their coiifi- o
deration, that if any amendments or ex- tl
at planatious of that law should be thought ad- tl
10' vifable, they may be adopted,
in JOHN ADAMS." tl
a " United States, 1 f
January
This meflage, with the papers accompa- v
its nyingit, were referred to the fame commit
r,- tee of the whole, to whom was referred th« 11
id report on the petition of William Bell. a
II On motion of Mr. Harper, the house rc- t
ln ' solved itfelf into a committee of the whplc j
| 3t on the bill providingthe means ofintercoui fc \
l"" a between the United States ai,id Foreign nat
a . tions, Mr. Dent in the chair; when the
;d bill having been read, and Mr. Harper hav
to ing declared with what sums it was propof
re" ed to fill the blanks, Mr. NichoLs, after a 1
' speech of considerable length, in which he
dwelt upoo the evils which had been, and
on _ which were likily to he produced by an ex.
be ter.fion of our foreign diplomatic ir.tercourf c
propoTetTfeveral amending'* to ', e "bni, the
cfFedt of which he t g be to re'ftore
the business of foreign intercom fe to tliL
fame footing oa which it stood in the ycar
1796, before the extension took place.
A long debate ensued, which is deferred
till to-morrow. The speakers in favour of
the motion were Mt/Trs. Nicholas, Gallatin,
and Ealdwin; againlt it, Messrs.. Harper,
Allen, and Sitgreaves. The committe rose
without taking a question, and obtained
leave to fit again. Adjourned.
LEGISLATURE of PEJJJjivYLVANIA.
HOUSE VF REPRESENTATIVE.
January 17.
Dr. Leib presented a memorial from a
r-Jstbcr-"f lat = offUnrdpf the
of this Hate, praying to be placed upon
the footiug with other officers refpedling
their half pay, or to be allowed to enter in
to an amicable suit against the conwnon
wealth for what they conceive their due,
which wa* read and referred to Me firs. Gur
ney, Leib, Whitehall, Muhlenberg, and
Harris.
Dr. Leib on the part of tie committee
reported a bill to authorize the governor to
incorporate a company to credt an artificial
road from the city of Philadelphia to Read
ing, which was read and made the order of
the day for Thursday week. Mr. E.yerly re
ported against the bill for the relief of Hen
ry Brink and Wilhelmus Van Gordon.
Dr. Leib reported a bill to provide for
the recording the several roads heretofore
laid out or which hereafter maybe laid out in
the bounty of Philadelphia, which was read
and made the order of the day for Tuesday
next.
The report of the committee in favor ef
a grant to the trustees of Newtown Acad
emy, was read a second time and adopted,
and the. committee who made the report ■
were-appointed to bri'g in a bill.
The report of the committee 011 unpaten
ted lands was read a second time and rtfer
.tsd to the committee of ways and means.
rwatoi,tj&lf » commit- •
tee of the whole on the bill to empower
> Walter Clark, William Gray and William
> Wilson to. fell and convey a certain lot of
' ground in the town of Lewifburgh i*
( Northumberland county and for other pur
, poses, which wa* agreed to.
> Mr. Kelly moved that four members be
■ added to the committee appointed to revise
' the judiciary system which motion was a
' greed to.
The hoiife again resolved itfelf into a com
' mittee of the whole on the bill to authorise
the governor to incorporate a company to
ereft a permanent bridge over the river
Schuylkill, which was agreed to- with a
. mendments.
Tha bill for the eredtion of a hotife for
' the employment and support of the poor
in Ch si Iter county was read a second time
and agreed' to.
Adjourned.
By yesterday's Mail.
1 Capt. Hinxt of the Dutch ihip Protea.
! ry, ft 56 guns, died on his arrival in the
j Texel, of the wounds he received in the a&-
• ' on-
It is stated in the English prints, that tie
f Fmperor of Russia has granted a penften of
- 200,000 roubles, to Louis XV 111.
t, On the sth inftant,the brig Sally, Joseph
0 H. Atkins, master, arrived in Rebellien Road
(Chailefton, S. C ) in 53 days from Bour
f deanx.
,f Cap Atkins left Bourdeaux on the 9th
of November. Foor days before he failed, .
h capt. Woodman, of the brig Aurora, of
Charlcfto.i,then*in Baurdiaux, received the
, e following Ifttcr, from General Pinckney.
1 Paris OBubcr 9, I 797-
' Q «< Sir—As it is pcflible our negociations
le with this republic may not have a favourable
ifl'ue, and that may colleagues and myfelt
y may be orderedto leave France, and as
{. understand vou are bound to Charleston,
t 'n with my wire,
i- daughter, secretary, ana pei'MUpS two—
•.e gentlemen ; I (hould be glad to know if you
V take pafiengers, and have accommodations
y. for them, and what are your terms, and the
a- latest time you fail. Be fo'good as to write
me. This is not to be considered as an en
rs gagementto go in the Aurora, !}tit merely as
ie a letter requesting information. I remain,
very refpedtfnlly, your molt obedient fervaut.
(Signed)
• " Charles C. Pinckney.
oe Capt. Woodn^an.
& N. B. 1 think the Aurora, is a Ih'ip ;
ii- should (he not be accommodated for paflen
:h gers, can you inform of any vessel at Bour
ivv deaux, that is, and about to fail on the 20th
d, November, for Charleston, or near it.? .
n- Ascap'. Atkini'f o"it v!y asserts, that the
eh letter from General Pinckney was received
in. but four days before he failed, it is probable
jrt that there i's a miltake in the date of the
copy of the General's letter, and that it
ifi- ought to be the 29th of Oftoher inilead of
;x- the 9th, which would bt five days, shp time
id- the couriers take to go irora Paris to Bour
deatix.—The poftfeript to the letter, we
think, confirms this opinion ; for if the
General expe&ed to be ordered away early
in October, he would hardly put off hu
pa- voyage to the 20th of November,
lit- In confequetice of the information, the A
th« mericaii merchants Bourdeaux weremtich
alarmed, and they had been advised to get
re- the r property out cf France soon as
iple pQfiible, aa there w*s a "encral opinion prc
tfe" vailing, that there would he a rupture bs
na- tween France and this country
the '
iav- The Members
jof- OF the Society of the iops cf Sx George, efla-
Lr a bliih.il at PliiUjiTjphu.for the advice and affi .anc«
1 of Euglifiwacn in tiiftrcfi, are r<;quc(led to art. i. :
1 ' j a Quarterly Meeting o1 the Taid Society at th« (V .
anc. Tavem, on TuefJay the» \d ii:ll at s o'clock tr.
ex. the afternoon. G]tOlw£ J) f)'»
urf c jar.uirj 1;o£sCtte*
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, JAVUAiy i ? .
'We are informed the Secretary of State
yelterday received a letter from Mr. Murray,
our mm,iter at the Hague, inclosing a let
„ U 5. , he . reived from general Marshall,
which informs, that the French government
had not recognised the American commis
sion, and that they daily expe£ted they
would be obliged to quit the republic. Mr.
Marshall's letter is dated Oftober the 21ft.'
ExtraA of a Mi'. Ftnwict A"-'
merican Consul at Bourdeaux, to his cor
respondent in Chailefton, dated gth Nov.
" In consequence of the hostile appear- ;
ances with America, the bearer of this has
changed his destination, and tells me he will
touch at Charleston. I don't think for my
own pa.it that there will be a rupture with
the United States, yet the negociation at
Paris is likely to be without fucctfs, and it
is said our conimiflieners are preparing to
depart. There is no change in the conduft
towards our commerce \ and four velfels car
ried into /.'Orient, have been condemned
at Vatis in the court of appeals. Peace with
the Emperor is made definitively; the
French have dictated."
Capt. Atkins intended to fail for aFrench
port in the ell-Indus, but in confequanee
of the news from General Pinckney, he
thought it belt to letutn to Airerica ; he
• brought no newspapers
A correspondent begs leave to obfetve,
that if a»y of the members of the Legisla
ture are net convinced of the necessity of
a 1 urnpike Road to Germantown, a ride
to that place ie recommended as the best ar-*
giinient to remove their doubts.
The American Fhilofophical Societrbeld.
vkw-STMiwartflfcAidn o! officers, oh the fir J
Friday of this inlt. when the following
•were duly chosen :
Prefident—'Vhe hon. Thomas JefTerfon.
/ Vice-Presidents —Nicholas Collin, D. D.
Dr. Benjamin Rush, Dr. Caspar Wiftar.
Treasurer —Mr. John Vaughan.
Secretaries—Samuel Magaw, D. D. Dr.
Adam Seybert, Dr. I. C. James, Mr. Sam
uel H. Smith.
Curators—Mr. Charles W. Peale, Dr.
Benjamin S. Barton, Mr. Robert Patter
■fon. • ' ■ !. • . * '
Class of Counft/lors for 3 years.
Mr. Jonathan B. Smith, Dr. William
Currie, William Smith D- D. Mr. Jonathan
Williams, 2 years from January 1798.
The society will hold a stated meeting,
en the evening of the 19th, at 6 o'clock.
A stated meeting of the American Philo
sophical Society vviil be held at their hall at
6 o'clock this evening.
•
Yefletday in the Senate of the United
States, upon a motion for leave to bring in
- a - H 1 Greene!"
a member from Rhode-Island, in pursuance
of inltrudions from that state—the Yeas,
and Nays were as follow :
YEAS.
MeiTrs. Anderfon, Bloodworth, Brown,
Foster, Greene, Jackson, Langdon, Liver
more, Martin," Mason, Tazewell u.
N" A Y S.
MeiTrs. Bingham, Chipman, Goodhue,
Gunn, Hillhoufe, Howard, Hunter, La
timer, Lloyd, Mnrfhal, Paine, Read, Rofs,
Sedgwick, Tracy— 15.
Four members of the Senate are absent
—from the States ef New-York, one, New
Jersey, two, and one from Delaware—
thefe would have voted agaijifl the motion
had they teen present, in that cafe there
would have been a still greater majority a
gainst granting leave.'
FURTHER REPORT
I'rom the Committee appointed, oil the Bth
(if Julv la it, trt onA .r -y g - -1'
cles of impeachment again it William
Blount, a Senator of the United States,
impeached by the House of Representa
tives, of high crimes and misdemeanors.
The committee, appointed 011 the eighth
day of July last t9 prepare and report ar
tiflcs ofimpeachm'ent against William Blount
a Senator of the United St«tes, impeached
fey this house of high nrimes and misde
meanors ; which committee/ by a resoluti
on of the tenth day of July aft, were in
ftrudted "to enquire and, by all lawful
means, to discover .the whole nature apd
extent of the offence whereof the said Wil
liam Blount (lands impeached, and who are
the parties and aflociates therein beg
leave, in puifuance of the last reeited in
ftruftion, and in addition to their report of
the thirtieth of November last, further to
report the deposition of Abel Holden, jun.
taken before Efq. Mayor
of the city of New.York, in consequence
of information given to the chairman of the
committee, by captain William Eaton, since
the date of the last report.
JS/ew-Tork, Jf.
Abel Holden, junior, of the city of New-
York, in the state of New-York, being du
ly sworn upon the 'Evahgelifts of Almigh
ty God, makes oath and faith, that he liv
ed for a number of years in the state of Ne,w-
Hampshire, where he was acquainted with
John Phillips Ripley, nephew to the Presi
dent of Dartmouth College—that the said
John Phillips Ripley lived for about tyvo
months during the last fumnVer, and this
deponent thinks in the months of July and
Augtift last, as a boarder and lodger in the
houle of Asa Holden, the uncle of this
deponent, where this deponent also lived at
the fame time, in the city of New-York—
that the said Jphn Phillips . Ripley during
the said period, having been applied to for
payment of the money % due for his said board
Knd lodging, thii deponent at his request, .
4 V
accompanied Kim fuft to a house, at the
cor Vr of Pearl and IWi.fW,;, the
c,t >l' w ' er « h « kid he should fee a gen
"email from whom he was to have feme mo .
ney—that the Cud John Phillips R; p l ey
there conversed With a perfou to this depo.
nent ttnWyn, t h e French lan ■*
which this deponent does not understand!
and then mformed this deponent that the
gentleman whom he expeftcd to have seen,
was not at home—that this deponent then
proceeded with the (aid Jtiha Phillips Rip.
ley, at his desire, to a houle « Greenwich
street near the Battery, in the said city,
which this deponent has fine* understood,
to be occupied by the Spanish consul, ahd
where, as this deponent then nnderttood, he
? to fi-e th« Spanish minjftnt-Jrttat
in ftgepuffe ef convention pu a fo.mer'day,
he said John Phillips Ripley fiad informed the
w horn he had recently seen h the said city, in
a phee'on, by four horses—tint Up
on their coming-to the said house in Green
wich street, the said John. Phillips R: p l ey
looked 111 at one of the windows, and said,
that he law there was company in theroom,
and that oe would take another quportuhity
o. calling, or to that effeft—and added, that
he had already had two hundred dollars from
the laid mmifter, and was to have more mo
ney from him—that'he has heard the said
john Phillips Ripley fay, that hefhonld have
had the office afterwards conferred upon
captain Eaton, of Confu! at Algiers, but
taat captain Eaton had interfered and pre
vented it—that he was present when a simi
lar declaration of the said John Philips Rip
ley was mentioned to captain Eatf>u, who
then (jbferved that he had been inclined to
favour Ripley's views, but that there wire
substantial reasons to prevent his appoint
ment, and further added, that he understood
Ripley had received money from the Spanish
Miriilter,—that this deponent thereupon
communicated to captain Eaton what he th«
said John Phillips Ripley had mentknif ' t;
him as aforefaid, and had before mentu
- the fame in the family ofhis uncle, the .
Asa Holden. ——j
ABEL HOLDER, jr.
Sworn the 30th day of December,
1797, before me, (the-word "had,"
and the words " -whom he had recent
ly seen in the said city, in a photon
drawn by four horses," being firll in
terlined, the last words over an ob
literation.) Rich'dVarick, Mayor.
NEW-YORK, JAN. 10.
A GHOST.
New-Goal, (in the Fields J Jan. I*, 1798
A true and furpriling account of the apparition
er ghost of a woman, that has appeared seve
ral nights past in the New-Goal, to the great
terror and affright of the prisoners, many of
whom are ready to confirm the truth of it on
oath.
Cap!, Fish declares thnt for several nights
pad, the apparition of <a woman has hiunted
ths goal from room to room, this and the last
week, followed and encircled by a radiant light,
drefTed in a white flowing rabe and a turban on
her head, seemingly of a pleasing but deje<fted
cauntenance, Cspt. Fish declares that about
twelve o'clock on Friday night this apparition
~-~n t Oi t 'if and drew the curtains, Iook
"rr- if! jJ? l 1 '' m f ' :r fo»ne time, which so
: run to' he atijured her in the name
ot the Father, Son,and -fjwn him
who she was, or why (he caine in " so queftiona
Me a (tape," when-ihe casting a look of fwrrow,
accompanied with most iruffaUe sweetness
gradually disappeared in the fight of several o
thtr prifeners v»ho were in ths room, and are
ready to teftify the trntli of what is here ad
vanced.
Mr. Miller another debtor in the ftmt Voem,
going to the upper hall, about one in ihe morn
ing, was met by the fame woman who pulled
him by the eoa> ; which so alarmed and fright
ened him that he flood petrifird as a statue ;
when he came a little to hlinfelt he fiw her
gradually advance to ths window, from which
she vanished. He then called to the watchman
to ask him if he had seen it, he declared lie did,
and that he had seen it variifb from the fame
window several nights fucceflively.
Mr. Miller fu-ther declares, that after she was
gone, a large globe of fire of the most beautiful
and diverfined colours rolled up and down the
hall for the fpaeeoffive minutes ; and then of
a sudden burst with a dreadful explosion, which
rition ; when making but one step from the top.
of the flairs to the bottom, he recovered his
room, in a condition of undefcribable terror.
The Friday following Mr. Evans, being a
sleep in his bed, was suddenly awakened by
something drawing open the curtains of his bed,
when he perceived the figure of a beautiful wo
man, arrayed in white, looking fleadfaftly on
him, which much alarmed him ; he communi
cated his fear to another man who was in the
fame bi d with him, who alfofaw it with terror
and aftonifhmtnt- It continued a considerable
time by the bedfidr in a contemplative pofturn,
often putting her band on the left fide of her
robe, which seemed to be tinged with blood,
and then he ving a deep sigh, vanished through
the 'wall.
Mr. Hevvit a few evenings after this, in
the dead of the night being alarmed in his
sleep, suddenly leaped out of bed, and the
firft thing presented to his view was the ap
parition of this woman, who with the most
placid countenance seemed t» claim his pity;
but frightened to the greatest degree at so
uncommon an appearance, and fear doling
his power of utterance, lie leaped again in
to bed, covering himfelf over head and ears,
with every particle of the bed furniture that
was within hisgrafp. In a few minutes af
ter, this apparition di fappeared, which was
accompanied by a solemn, hollow, rumbling
rioife. leaving him in " The utmost exacer
bation of human terror."
The prisoners in general further declare,
that almost every night about twelve o'clock
there appears a large ball of fire at intervals,
which illuminates every room in the gaol
for a time.
" l)oo*nd for a curtain terto to wait tht Hight,
Andfor tbr day confin dt* f«JI in fit.n,
'Till the foul crimet dottr. in my days of nature
Are burnt and purged aiuuy. But that lam forl/ii
Tj tell the ferrets of my f>rifaji house,
1 could a talc unfold, n'hofi ivord
Would bdrtoiv up the foul, freeze all thy blood;
Make thy two eyes lihflars jl art from their fpberei,
7by knotted and uncombed It ch to part,
And each particular bair on er.d
Like quills upon the fretful Porcupine"
\ *
PRICE OF STOCKS.
' Jj " Uary ,
riwee per C<rt. uJj '° '°i.
Deferred 6 per Cent. \(c, ~A
BANK United States, »2 ctrit.
- ~ T Henufyivania, 1, per cent.
North America, 4', per «Qt.
IsfuranceCd. Peni 5 : 9 6 per cent.
l<i. A (liares 40 perceat.
The Eastern mai] had not arrived when-this
paper went to press.
GAZETTE marine list.
From I.loyrPt UJf 0 f A'fiv, -j. -
at H«Mnbarg( Ship Alwander
Magnus, Ehrfmao, from Philadelphia. >
£he antied railed to tcve arrived
P £ yeftcrcky, i s to bc , he
Rose, Me»ny, Ifie of France.
Brig Nincy, H6g g ard, hence to C. N.
MoJe.tvas captured Nov. 2c, g ht. 21,48.
l?ng. 69 W by the French brig l e Pandour
capt. Gavrifcairj, and retaken the 25th'
by the British piivate ship oPwar, lord
nawkelbury, near Curracoa, and" arrived
at Burmada the id nit, where vefiel and
property are libelled as French property.
Ni-jj-Tork, Jan. 17. v .
ARRIVED DAYS
Ship Wifcaflet* Stetfo, Greenock 43
S HURtw, Star, ~, St. Augustine
a l P°''°» Savannah
aenr. Matchless, , Wilmington
The (hip Nsney, capt. Forreft, was taken by
the trench privateer.La Favournee, of 14 guns,
irom Nantz, on the 14th November, in lat. 40.
30. long, ju The mate, 3 hauds and 10 p»fl*-
ejigers, were ptit board the privateer as they
were going to France, but was separated in a
gale of wind, and on the a-th November, cap
tarn with remiinder of his crew and
Mfleggtos, retook the Nancy, and arrivad hefe
last evening, with 12 Frenchmen and a priie
malter. Too much nrtlfj rannnt be m
! i sptain 1. . hj, ; t'si)
! fi.Wi j feacerel/ ftk" aerh »j«
•"jjSESL;T i *C" - -jf-* -rf
{ " r 4 -2.'-
' D<an<j fmrr> ! ' i?-;<■ ~r i z~.-
j and a brig. . '
j ft,
_ lx hundred and tliirt'-four vefleU, inclu
ding fliips, fnowi, fchooners and
sloops, arrived at Boftoi, in the year
front foreign ports. Cleared, to foreign
ports, in 1727, 73 (hps, 146 snows and
b'rigs, 171 fchooners,aril 22 sloops—which
make four hundred andjwelve.
Whaleing. Am'ved at New-Bedford, 1
' (hip Ann, Coleman, 1 'jo barrels, sperm. !
oil. Spoke off Chili, Ajril 28, capt. Swain*
300 bbls. Sperm oil • vlo haa parted with
capt. U. Bunker, Apil 2, with 80 bbls..
fp. oil—May 2, with capt. P. Worth,
1 1200 bbls. fpl oil. Atg: 2, left capt. W.
Eafton, 700 bbls. fp. ill of Nantucket.
Nov. 6, lat. 9, 10, S, spoke (hip Brad
ford, of New-Bedfor4 20 bbls. fp-oil" j
Capt. Coleman infoims, that the Spatii- '
ards have taken off Ch'ii, 9 British whale
men, having 5400 bbls.of fp. oil.
From the New-York Gazette.
Me firs. An.eetn & Lang,
Those who believe in the Spe&re of the
new prison, may also believe the fan&ity of
the views of John Stewart, the traveller,
who goes from town to town, reading phi'-
lofoyhical romantes, /ar money. The man
of reflexion fees in the fir(t cafe, the arti
fice of debtors who wifla to get out of con
finement, or of a child defirovis of obtain
ing a Christmas bos bv the sale of a hand
bill ; —in the fecoud, he observes a hypo- 1
crite, with a tone of humility aud benevo
lence, who, not knowing how to gain a li
ving by praftiftng feme heneft mechanical
art, resorts to the more easy trade of read
ing and felling his lrftures to idiots filly e
nough to give him their money. Decep
tion is the ground-work of each. Neither
is intended to inform men, nor to real* t.V-rja.
rcrotrr
be fortunate if no bad effe&a are produced
by them, particularly by the leftures.
When the revolution threatened France,
and ever since that country has been torn to
pieces by it, there have been, and still con
tinue to be numbers of these public preach
ers, of these travelling mountebank quacks
who under pretext of enlightening the hu
man mind, inspired it with fanaticifn), and
formed many a political cut-throat. They
demonstrated the perfeftibility of man!!! —
But they (hewed at the fame time that this
desirable, and in their opinion, pra&icable
elevation could net be attained but by re
forming existing institutions. A fanciful
piiiure placed at a great diftatice* magical
ly exhibited the advantages to be gained by
a change of habits, and a renovation of the
political fyflem. The deceived hearer, till
then a good man, became enthusiastic for
the imaginary good, heated by degrees, and
turned out a demoniac. In his holy deliri
um, he seized a site-brand, or arm ed himfelf
with a dagger, and smote his father, the
throne, or the altar.
If is thus—lt is by means like these, that
ambitious men on one fide, and philtfophers on
the other, have murdered Louis XVI. and
France. For wljofe benefit? F«r their
own, ftnee tbey reign in hi§ (lead, without
having bettered the circufnftances of the
nation.
Rewbell, in the conflituent Assembly,
preaching the liberty of the fovercign peo
ple, and profefling in the Dire£lory> the
most absolute despotism, refcmb'.ies Pope
Sixtus V. who, when Cardinal, used crut
ches, but cast them aside on becoming Pope
crying Ego sum Paba! This Rewbell, like
all the agitators of 1789, had his writers
and his Readers!. He still has them, but to
preach an opposite doiirine; In 1789, In
furre.&ion was the mojij"acred of duties—now
it leads to the fcaffold, or to CAYENNE !
It has even been the cafe, that in order
j to Jtceae the pooj If, if- tn corrupt them
t pubiicora tors, who, likeJcKr Stewart,travel
j Isrd f<"om town to town, 3c were
preach under the cloak of Phflofophy, the
■ .-nofl poisonous principles,
j Let any n™ read the pamphlets to which
J every period Las given hirth Every oew
fttp, howevei villainous,however
is declared to be meant fur the
of man. Ihe treachery of eloquence dif
gU'H the most horrible ptojefts ; and mo
rality was preached while crimes wete in
culcated.
Citizens, fufpeft these charafter* of phi
losophy—their hps are honeyed, but their
hearts are filled with gall.
Attendite falhs Prophetis, qui veniunt
»dvos in vellimentis orium : intrinfdeu»
>'?tfm funt lupi. rapaces." Gofpei
• Every
proscribe this specie* of Fanatic*. The pre
cipitate their hearers into a dangerous deli
rium or a stupid extafy—Both are incom
patible with facial order.
A FRENCHMAN
Frem the New-London onsets.
Cr-
OF THE TERMINATION—-ed.
Words ending in ed, are derivitires, j
the participlei terminating in d, and
past tenses of verbs. As people differ in
I*onouaciiig words with this termination, I
f'Jggeiled the fallowing rules, aod re
qucit grammarians togive their opt) ions on
them.
Rule i. When tie primitive Word ends
in a consonant, thted is fubjained to form
the pall tenftf or participle; and conftquent
ly ought to make i complete syllable with
itfelf: to this ruU I know of no excepti
ons. -
Rule 2. Wbw the primitive-word esds
in E, there is only the D added, and ought
n<jt to be any ,-more additional found, the ed
being joined and forming a syllable with the
- fraud, /-. *
' ' lobe Ore afcurictc! ?rac'd,l-V,
. ,i<&. ■ -r- '- jsaeaif ir ]TI
. i v- " f . ; - ■ *
A K- f
.„» •- - . >
. To ntitke cd z. f..liable fS tbe a o
mT<ijid, as we'l as ror.;:v ethers {
*fe hatih and grating to lilt exnnifitc CB .
CADMUS.
ANECDOTE.
. Pepel king of Bonney, who is perhaps
one of the most extensive dealers in human
flefh which the world can produce, was so
much incensed at the profpeft of an aboli
tion that he thus addrcfled a Liverpool cap
tain.
" Why you no catchee dat Wilbafoce ?
why you no bringee to Pepel ? I soon do
um—l foonmakeeknow whyhepoil trade."
The captain told him that it was impossi
ble to comply with his request as the cust
oms of England and tbofe of Bonney were
. so very different.
| " Well," exclaimed the monareh, " sup
pose ywli no bringee Wilbafoce, deie be o»e
oder dey call Quaker —why you no catchee
he?"
This anecdote refle&s too much credit on
j these friends of humanity to require any
comment.
Marshal's Sales.
United States, 1 -
Pennfy/vania DiJlrtS. J
.1 OTICE is hereby given, that in purftjance of
JL\ a writ tomadireded, by the Hon. Richard
Peters. Eft]. Judge of th» Diifricft Court of the
United States, in and for the Fcnnfylvanii Dif
* t*i>9\ will be exposed to Public Sale 3t the Cuilou.-
honic, «n Monday, the 19th dsy of January inft.
! at II o'clock ac nopn,
1 box of Sugar
2 bags of Coffee
i barrel, }
t half barrel, and > of Limes
1 3
a jars of Honey
26 .Pine Apples
1 kegs of Spirits
I keg of Sugar, and
7 barrels and one half barrel of Sugar
The Came having ■ir-r. ifaluuurrir'Ui * ilfj i
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marjlal.
Marshal's Oficc, ")
17th Jar»**ary, 1798 3 19 —dt29ht
Fresh Fruits and Wine,
DIRECT FROM MALAGA,
By the brig Johanna, capt. Thiefleß, arrived at
Marcus Hook,
1000 casks fine Bloom Raisins
s sri «<
1£ S3\si }*«
100 Boxes kmons
too Jarsgrspes
10a Kegs of figs
7 Bags foft SelPri almends
60 Roses Jordan almond kernels
11 Hoglheads } Catalonia Wine
ill q]- s^&s 3 } Mala ? a wine
100 Qr. calks fine Mountain do.
3c Qr. ca(k*Co?emenar do.
Apply to
Edward Dunant,
Na- >49, South Front fttreef.
Who will Freight or Charter,
f a Brigantine
JO H ANN A,
Being a Dane of about aoo tons
burthen, for any port in Europe.
January 19 ♦jteod
amiable,
c - Ticlinohast, Matter,
For Amsterdam,
CAN take in about 4c ton s of goods to complete
her cargo. She is intended 10 fail the firft
opening for freight or passage apply to
the mefter on board, at Uright's wharf, or to
Jeremiah Warder.
Tanuary 18 3t.
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few chests of excellent quality, For Sale, cor
ner df Second and Pin« ftr«t j.
December i 6. cots
R!■.
t">
he ON FRIDAY EVOKING;
, , JANUARY IJf,
Will lx;prcf#ntcd, tfre
tw ISABELLA ;
T O-R, THE FATAL MARRIAGE,
efj Court Baldwin, rar Warren—3imti, i»r Foul <• •
lif. —Carlos, mr WignelUr'VHleroy, ujr AI ur-um—•
10 . | Child, trailer Warrell—Sampfon, rar Franc i« —
1 B. lfnrd, mr fox—-Officer, mr
mclTrs BWTatt, Hv.ntrr, Laffcrty, A.C- •
l'ab«ii«, tort Merry (being her ti> it appcaraoce
hi- in that chat»<Set) —Nirfs, mr". L'Eflrarge.
e,'r In aA Ml. an EI'ITHALAMtUM.
The vocal partx.by. M:(Tr». P)srly, Marfliall, Hai
cii WaiTeU-f-Ml». Ofcdmixon, M>is M;J
---1 U~ui(*L, See.- See.
'W •' 1 m ■+■- * 7.-F-V
To whieTt' will V »J-<ed, a F ARCE, called
rW :>Wt>>6Tßrti»<}b.CO VOMLBOW. ;
•g. OR, TBI! MAN WITH TWO MA9TEXS.
jj_ Don Pedro, mr Franiif—Dou Sanchn, mr Vk;--
rell—Oi3avio,n.r b'ux—Ferdinand,mrWarrelt, yri\
'*" Boracbio, mr W.'.Vrcn—Lazard'o, inr Bernird
Drunken Porter, mr BlitTctc —Waiters, meffrs i".
Warrell, Hunter, See.
Donna CJara,uir» Francis—Leonora, mil's t, Z ~-
tragc—Maid, mrs Dodor.
£/■ On Satnrdciy eveniup the favorite Comedy
I of the Jew : to whicli will be added, th« Critic ;
' s » 1 or, aTrjgedy Rchsaricd.
id
in Box, one DolFar ; Pit, thjee quarters of a Dpl-
J Ur ;an 1 Gallery, ha»f a Dollar.
e- Cs* Fhe doors of theTlvatr* will open at five,
and the curtaitf rife prerii'ely at {a, o'cf.">ck.
1,1 Tickets to be had at H. and P. Hici'eboolt-ftove,
N >. 50 Marku-iir et. an . at the Olfic? adjoining
Is the riicare. V VAT RESfUBLJCA !
m : ——
y Princeton—Ntvv-Jerfey.
WM To U Sold,
TH AT neat aRd cbnvenient I'oufe in which
the lata Mm. Ann row Mrs.
it Ann Walker, lived; together with all the appur
•d CLlJ;il,crß ' The house is two (lories high, of frame
work, and painted. There ar? are fnuriponn
f -and an entry on the lower floor, and five rotms
e second iloor. Ihe cellarsare dry, and the
3 1 ? spacious - —The hack yard is paved with
; ror .1, in "h are a well of excellent water, an
j ' a smoke house, and house for alh«»— and
■j, . . oufc i ha r lof '. grarary, ao-t
for neat catUc. The lot is 60 feet wide upon
:reet, and 2J4 feet d«ep,fomewhat more th?«
-r alf of which is made into a kitofien garden
or an excellent foif.
> For terms, which will be made very reafofiaMe,
apply to the reverend )
Samuel S. Smith.
® January 19 2aw4w
o L O S J,
TN this City, on Sunday November 16. 1797»
>- A a red Morocco Pocket Book, containing C
notes of hand to Read & Pisris, as follows,.
? Johj Dufiield's, for 441 dollars 73 cents.
q William M'Laws 43J 37
» George Way's 177 19
John Doaks ill 99
}' Edward Clayton's 60
Do. 30
e Do. a 7
John Brown's £lO6-15-11
3. One 10 dollar Bank of Pennfylvanianote —an or
|e det upon Walter Franklin, Esq. in favor of Charles
Read, and fuadry other pap«rs that can he of no
:c use but to the owners. Payment of the aforcfaid
. notes of hand being ft?p'd, a reward of 15 dollars
in (hall be paid to the person or persons bring
iy ing said pocket book with the aforefaid contents to
Read and Pierie, No. 6j, Cteftiut Street and no
quell ions asked.
Jariuary 19. 'eed.it. _
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
of January 11th, 1798-
rd An adjourned meeting of the Stockholders
he will be held at the Company's office on Friday
if- next, 6 o'clock in the evening, on bufmefs of
jtnportanee. djt
To be Exchanged for
Briti/b, German, or India Goods,
IN' THE PACKACE ;
A tract of valuable Land
In Lycoming, joining that of the Hottand so.
and containing 10, coo Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
J»n ; IS- 5_
. _ i+o" iiuhliifc-aii,
!TiJ And to be had at thETKS^IToresTf-Steffi l fiflj
son, Campbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Causes and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To which it annexed,
AN * BSTRACT of the opinions and pradlicc of
at different authors : and an APPEIJOIX, exhib
iting interesting fads and rclleaions felative to
•y tiie Synvib'-u IfitrciJa, or Yellow Fever, which
hasoccnfioned so much diftrefsand mortality, at
different periods, in feveralof the seaport towns
of the United States of America.
BY WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fell«w of the Philadelphia Colltge of Physicians,
and Member of the American l J hilofophical So
citty, &c.
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Ccpt. HAs Tle , from Bourdeaux ;
C'iaret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in ba&ets of it bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sale by
JAMES 1 ATIMF.R, jun.
71, South Wharves.
Who hat also for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
D «- daw
K» Two furnifhed Rooms to be Let.
Enquire at No. 162, Spruce-street, between
4th and jth Areets. Any person wh u (hall rent
the above, may if required, be accommodated
with board.
J 1 " K. * at
This day is Published,
At the gjffict of the Aurors, No. 112, Market Street,
te . IPi ice one dollar asd a half,')
rft „ * of theronduft of the EXECUTIVE in the
FOREIGN AFFAIRS olthe UnitedSiatss,
ed with the Mtffion to the rrtneh Republic during
the years, 1 ;g 4 , A ,6,
By JAMES MONROE, /
La '< x 'li r ''fterPler,»poienti.v to the (aid Republic
mutinied by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR
• RESPONDENCE and o? her authentic documents;
r- A very libeial allowance to those who buy te (eil
again.
D.-cem/>.r '3- «6 U*)
House and Lots, in Ditdcntcwn. ,
r T' , O EE SOLD, a handfoine two Hut;* Hoiife.
X with the Lot crt wbi(h it i* <*re<Sc<i, si mated An
nliout the middV of the heaot'fol acd hcaithj
Village of Bondentown. The fcvfc forty j „ .
feet front, and in near order The lot cootaiii* 5
one acre, and U one hundred feet ou tfee main. l |(
street, and extends with the fame lifwrfth tc.hai-lt
ftr<et. AHo, a large Lot, containing nearly lour J'* *"
acres, feparatcd from the former !>y back iirttt. *
One third only of the purchase money wili ber«i- w
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mai inter, fnch credit will be giv«n as the curchafe
er may chufe. Thi» property will be fold free %>*
all incumbrances,an 1 -an indifputablc title give*!
For further particulars enquire rither of Dr.
William BuiU£*i fn bordentown, neur. H
the prcaiifc*, who will the lame, or of the
PETER THOMSON, mv
CflnvcyancA, n*. 144* & rcCt ! i .
December*. ' %» wlf
"Salisbury fiftate. I n«vi
Subfciihtr, piopifmg to t&Wia® >«bufi- tro«
1 ness, ofrcis thi. hftue tor falcon Addirate a ln»
trims. Oi. n arc one BUst and rtiree Air Furnaces, ftp,
i omplct* Bnrnug Machine, and « rcryiood grili j fl, o i
Vlitl, Wiih two pair of tai ; all" » KOod%>rge, all VU J,
in perfrfl repair,» aie all the Water Work* conneit- t het
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces j e f
wwt lately built for the purpose of carting Capnon
I , «u Stile.—There arc abou two rhoufand acre*
ol Land, one half of which i, under wood, theolher
iriy fine arable Und, producing the belt Hay and
PaHure, The Cannon lately maontaaored there,
(ally prove* the excellency of ibe metal, which t» .
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equa i
to arty in ihe world ; for not cm it- of sixty.nine gucs ,
lately m de, although some of the 24 were bored
in'O 31 pounders have f»il<d on proving. The 111u
at-011 is very eligible, particularly for this branch of N.
r.ia.iuf»aurr, and a place of arms lying in the Bate ■ I
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land (
it*, on the Hudfons 1 iver, and having every advan
tage that can refuit from a plenty of water liiurag ,
from a lirge naiural pond, very near the FurnMe,
jr.d whi, h may/b« converted into a variety of orfie*.
oleful purpolea. The purchaser c.n be accommodate cm
crt w jih all the ftoik and utensils, and have poffefljon ket
on or belore the firft of June next, and preparation Yo
may be made in the-niean time for goinginto Biall im- anc
mediately thereafter, for every part will be deliveicd J
in < ood order, with some coaii Ore, StC. &c» '' r oft
terms apply to Mr ]ofeph Anthony, in Plnladel- j
phia ; David Brooks, E<q. <■"<- of 'he Reprefe«ta»ves
in Ce-grefs for this Staje ; Mr, D*vid Wate.man, on : Kl
the premises, or tpthep-opriet ' . _ -?';• 1
WfLI 'AMjNFHSON.
Dec. t. '
Ran away the 25th
ber, 1797f a Negro Man, about
«n,,i?ign.Lnfuy iJhi*Mf"Hc'ilit»a ■ a -T ,
out of his cyea and.shews the
*i:(tch ; has taken all hi« eloathes »>
»ie, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and dnfe bodied coat, a striped vtft, nankeen V/
breeches, silk ftockmgs and ruffled shirts, and a _
number of other eloaths. TheXlid Negro under
flaads farming, and is a aood shoemaker and car
penter ; he can read and write tolerably well—it
is likely he may forge a pass. Whoever takes up at
said negro and secures him, so that I get him, fkall " r!
have "Hiirty Dollar! reward, piid by the fubferiber, be
£usAtftfAH MEoronn, living in Still Pond, Mary- an
iand, Keut coonty. I'C
N. B. The above Negro i» 19 years old.
Janyary 2. 6t no
FOR SALE, bt
William Priestman, (
119, South Front-ftieet, next doot* to the Cuf- j.\
tom-houle,
A large ajfortment of
Gold and tilver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker A
to the King of England
by Parker _ 4 J
Plir da'Uitig Piftolsj by Knubley, Charing
Cro,/ » B,
Refleiliag Telescope, by Ribright H
tlojr'tjf patent Medrciries
60 lb> Scotch Thread O
Small colleiSlien of valuable Bocks, and
Books of Prints fj
30,000 acres- of Land in one lot, upon the Q
Big Sandy, in Mafun county* Kentucky, pa- ci
tented by Pereival Butler, in 1787-
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lets Pi
Invoices or parcels of Watehes bought. CI
Jailuary 4. d?t
James C. y Samuel W. Fisher, n
AT THEIR StORE, £
NO.E1 3, corner of Arch and Front flreets,
HAVE TOZ SALE,
Cotton and worded Hefiery in trunk?, assorted
A few bale 9 red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchief's
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs _________
)... T ~~
*nd
Few chcifs best Hyfor Tea
jfl/i 1500 boxes befl London Window Glass,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14-and 15 bhds. Glass le
Wafe, assorted, which they of cheaper
than any in the city. ,
novemler «8. _ t
Imported (via New York) on the
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for si
sale by the fubftribtr, at No. 61, Che&iut.ftreet,
between Second and Third Streeu. thc fallow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconr.a Dorans t
Chintz andCalicoc9 Dacca worked muflini n
Gillis RouiaU Bandannoes «
Nillas & Penfiafoes Chafla Romals c
Blue cloth Hair ribbon a
MullMuWiankerchicfs Palempores i
Patna do. Banares Opium
Leffcr Cardimuai Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
nofvember tuths4W
"" NOW LANDING,
At Suuth-ftreet Wharf,
Ihe Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Batavia.
About 300 tons firft quali'y Java Coffee (the
whole having been felc&ed)
gotons Java Sugar, in canisters and bags
To legates of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
TOR. SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT;
Who also offtrs For Sale,
Jult landed from ship Amity, from Jamaica,
jo® hhd». Jamaica Sil;ir, aad
170 do." do. Rum.
November *3.
For Sale by the Sublcrxbers,
Priirfe Rict •" vybok arid half tiifcei
BouiJenux SrgrJy V~f ''j „
Trr.mijf? H ir!c c
. • MolaJJis
Georgia -11 d C.irclnut InJigo
Rtx-tMS Unci and one bogjbtai. of patit
*?"• N. S 7, FrAz.tr. '
No- IS 1 a,tt b Front Street.
dim.
A 01'. 7 •
fop. th: cprk of
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON- a •
SUMPTIONS, '
And all differs of the fir.ajl and Lung:,
Church's Cough Dr°P s g»g» 1
Is s medicine unequafl-'l by other inttte world, lars eu
CZRTtriCAT*. JV n
« I hereby certify, that \ h.ve been e«rei of a p (
: rr.oß tcvere Cough. Cold, ,U violent Bin in my
breaa, by taking enly a dose« of Dr.-C'no'cu
' Cough nropt. CHARLES BEVA.N*.
Sail Maker, Spruce llrcJt v barf, Philadelphia.
Front a London Paper.
f To Dr. CHURCH.
Having been recently restored from tfcebnukof
ti c grave, by your im iluablt medicine, t think it
my duty to maicc this public acknowled-ment ol
the fame, /or the ber. (- t of others affiled w.th a
fimilir ecmpWut. I had bc«aabided *' Ith » m< *:
" dreadfof afthn'l for ;:bout twenty-tbrec yei:r..
never for years got mr/rell,
- troublefomt ; ""I dlJc^sr B e - u _
e almoil incredible quantity of glutinous matter ]
frpm my lungs ; and my breath was so eieeejwg •_
1 1 (hort that ic(n.td not walk ■•croft my room. Pr•- '
' videntially hearing of your Cough Drops, I took
them ; and, through taking them alone, 1 am now, _
5 blessed be God ! restored to perfed health. My «"
0 cafe is well known to th« members of the Ebe»e do,
s zer Chapel, in Lincolo's-Inn-Field, of which.l am do.
j also a member ; and any of them will glaJJy fa- gel
tiasy any inquiry the truth of what 1 Ja»
' fay. I atn, Sir, yoDr grateful servant, 11'd/a
. NATHANUL LANGWORTHY, d<
! No.?, SmithViourt, Great Windmill-street, chint:
j 1 Hiy-market. Th
1-1 Witncfs, porta
>f , N. LANowonTHV.jun.No. 40, aflbrt
e Pultney -street, Golder-fquart. Th
from
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS Tc
f I Are prepared and fold (»ily) by the inventor art! Offic
■ sole proprietor, Dr. Jam.s Church, at his Medi- N<
i. l cine Store, No. 1 South Tixr J-ftrett, next the Mar.
ket, Philadelphia; an 4 by appointment, at New
,n York, by MefTrs. Staples am 1 Co. 169 Pcarl-flreet, p(
1- and Miss Wedman, 11a WilUnm-ftreet.
:d ' Dr. Church may be corfulted every iay, at his
»r office, 158 South Front-Creet, Philada'phia.
J- January 9- >w,w
'n Philadelphia Lander I nffl- A
j . pike Coair. .y. j.rJ
'jfavzaty Jf« flu...
i : r • : te
- V > .. , "V - >
t ?-,* C "i* z-rrtjyktea
>-■? . . .H
---;i; TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer T
en Of the Philadelphia fcf LancaJlerTurnpikeCowt py. , or ,
a January 8 ' ' mis'=W4-w feV r
r r ; All Perlons °^:
,I t Having any demands aga ; n(l the Estate of the 3 rft
,p late Captain George Irwin, are req»fft«l to in t
all bring in their accounts pioperly mtefted, on or oth<
:r, before the firft day of January next tnfuing v
y- and'thoft who ire indebted to said estate are so j™°
licited to make immediate payment to -.
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
no-v. »9 t We
OVAL BOTTLES.
Quart and hjlf gallon in erates. —and a quanti-
r ty of Olaret Bottles of a right fize —Far sale at
li_ No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
Jjnnarv i»
FOR SALE, Br ~
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. s, Chefnbt Street, .p^,
er A cargo of choice Bourdetjuxßraady, ill and »d ,
proof, >.ift landed j?"
IJO bales of Boufbon cotton of afuperior quality
9. do. Surat, da do ' «
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales lcn
Bourbon IndigO of the firft quatity
High proof Jamaica lpitits
Old London particular Madeira wine ?In pipes & r '
do. market do qr. casks.
New England rum in hogsheads
" e Genuine HoilandOin in pipes no
ll_ Claret in cases of 1
Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil -p^,
Piime Boftori bets . .. "
Choice Halifax Salmoa in barrels and half barr»fa
t De. Herring in do do"'
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare. q,
r, New-England tow l : «en
A few tons of Russia cordage jj c
Ruflia feather beds on
Clover and Timothy feed in ;af!:s jj,
, Long whale-bone
No. 1, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea nu
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
Njvembe* 8. diw. W
The time of a Negro Man, ty .
a f 9 Who has three years to serve ;heis a good host- w;
lass' ler, or toachtnan, and with some attention would s O ,
per make an excellent Cook. He is fold faults,
but for want of constant employ. The rice for on
f histime, to prevent needlefsenquiries, is £.30. t ; c
p- Enquire at No. S8 Sprucc-flieet. m
ne At said place may he had a few tons of choice
for firft crop Hay.
eet| rft month t)th. < ■• ■ '
SW " \~K per fori welt acquainted with
the theory and pravSldc'of book-keeping, whohasteen
lint manyyewsengaged inbufinefsforhinifelf andothersy
would be glad to beemployed, either as an agent (
or fador; or in polling books ; stating un'.'ettled l
accounts ; or in «xecuting any other kind of writ
ing, in French or Engliffi, »
A note addressed to J. A. and left at this office, "
will be punctually attended to. . _ >1;
november 30. 3 awtf j,,
w Yellow Fever and Pcftilential
Diseases. g
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oAavo. p
, By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chelnut llrest,
{Price, in buirdi 87 f » Cents J
(the -Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A V IE W
Of the Science of Life ; j
On the principles eftablifiied in tbs elements
r. of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M. D.
ca. With an attempt to correift some important er
rors of that woi k, and cases in illußration, chu f
-155 feleiled from tlie rtcords of their pradlice, at I
iv the General Hofpttal at Calcutta, * '
s Br William Tatex Chas. Maclean. ■
* H To which i, fubjained, a Treatise on the ailicn
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its app'.ica- 1
, UiiJ-or-tlie cure oidilcjfca.of indireiSl debility- (
Aftdadiffertation onthe fourtes oflipidtmieand; .
Peftilentialdif»afesj in whichisattempfodtopfove |
by a riomeronl induflion of fa£l«, that they ne
favsi V(;r a] :;f e f rom contJgion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicifTuudes of
the atmofplitre, by Ckaklcs Maclkan, of
Cjlcutta. v ■ J I
m. Nov. 21. flit
i ■ • J
CLERKSHIP.
A You kg Man, who could bring indictable
rccommemUtKMS d«tir®ut to emp oy
ed in ihc capacity of conymjjClcrk, at apu > c
sice, or with a private gentian—would en
gvgtt on moderate term*. lnrthcr jartj«u
lars enquire at the office of this Qazejtc.*-. / * An €
i
For Sale by the Sublcriber, Bc . al
10 t>a!e» Collis womn
40 Ho. B*ftas Make
11 do. wh
17 do. Chiniz" Npns
7 da. Tookery <■ 40,
4 do. Goraht Liftc
lj do. re';
r 3 da. Check Stripe> . . Colou
J I do. G-.izzic -j Black
, I box Dtapcri Colon
7 d'j. U«J>rlbf -ilk
»j pipe- .Wft p«rt»cuU* Madeira Wine, of Do.,
tbevfoiaer 1795. ihirt
• MORDECAI LEWIS. Black
■ r K„ r - to s h ':
For Sale, l>y the Package, gg
[ For ca(h, sr good notes at lixty or ninetydays, *
[ viz. -L\.
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain | eeafe
r stripes, and Checks I Assorted m rf.ent
dO . uo. Tamboured patfcaees. who
i do. ladies handkerchiefs, & I 1 r<qu
g en\l«he*'s iWrlc do. J cd to
I Jaronetchintz rai>fiin,for home and the Weft
j r( j,a market, PiillicbuJ atid linen handkerchiefs,
fee do. 'do printed do. do. common purple and
, chintz ftuwls. Pi
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex-
portation. Alio a few lcotch cambricks and an
aflTortment of muslin by the "pfctt.
The whole of thf above beiag a cdnfigoment Offic
from the manufaSlurers in Britain. > Any
To be seen at William Blackburn 3 quir<
5 Office, No. 64, South Second Street. in g i
Nov. 6. aawtf. F»pn
* THE AMERICAN ' _H
=• POCKET-BOOK, for 1798. j
JUST PUBLISHED To
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH, * l s u
No, 17, fouthfeeoild-ftrcet —containing j RIA
Zl \ N elegant Fronttfpiece of the M* m.*fc <MaF»v-
Fx\ c ' -» v %i | to b<
! w!*t ari Mra Nu ; being ?* itcu. ■ r :.»eprrKj- I acCQ
fcpai * V*r o. • ,
| Kc^.boi v 5t hurJJJ ->adhuu,v- c 1
- ■ - * •- -«,4* - : £ s f * J}
as L{ i oHfervaeyu:-, ic# aUo.f —•• -u>u» " ,
by W-ffidfecf Ci >> rceivedfor th*-.y£r ;
vf\t" a miffe'ti, 4 ?*" f&er tifeful table*—gem**! nieetr I
fsi.'<;s oi Me*-*-' iof bittha, A:<. - f;" - 1
t , , OCG. <XC.
ALSO,
The Gentleman's nnual Pocket Remembrancer,
ty' for 1798 —coouining n Almanack.; 104 ruled prfget
_ toV memorandums an6ca(h account ; Duties payable
on goods imposed ito the United Slates. Cuftom
oufe feei, &c; ta take place after the
be rftDect mber; a lift poft towns
to in the United States; a variety of ufeful tables, and
or other interefliug matie. ]
n g W. Y. BIRCH, corJhntly keeps for sale, a general
fp afTortment of Merchaa's account Books, and other
ftat onary goods, and makes to order booka of any j
and ruled to any attefn. j • *
-Elegant Maps, on Filers, and a large Chart of the on '
Weft-indies /| vS
.Hair and leather T*nks —Playing Cardi, | al n
and American. Dec. £7-—-* are
at 1 coluMia house g
Y - BpardingSchofl for young Ladies, tun
"|V /TRS. GROOMIKIDGE witb rnuch-pleaf
-IVA ureand reQie?, retlirns her finctre at- c
knowledgcment for he liberal encourageinent' —.
she has deceived duriip; four years relidenee ia
■ Philadelphia; and tfl'ures her friends an*l the
public, so far froni'intendiiig to declirfe her
j t ichool, fhc has made ai'upcrior ari angcment for -
the more convenient accominodatien of her a 'v
scholars. —Evtry braudi of tifeful and polite
educatien is partic.ukwlY _ajtended to by ATrs.
Groombridge .fud m»ftera excelling in their
refflefllve profeilions.
& Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.-
'• June sth, 1797. ' Jimlef
The Ctuatlon is perfefUy bealtky ; ati«! made
Emorei^re eibltby an exteilfive gardch aiid lot
of ground adjoining'the houi'ts '
fale or to be let on ground
re»t, . t
A valuahk Lot of Ground ; ■ X
SITUATE on the north-eaftcorner of Wai- re
nut ahd Filth streets, fronting the State-
Houfefquare. This (ot is fifty-one feet front B
on Waliiut street, and onehundre-d and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there a>e at
preijpnt two small two story brick houses, and a
number of fir.all tenements thereou.
Mfy, far Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
r * With convenient flores, wharf* &c. fituat-e or
ty-four feet, ariicontinuing that breadth eaa
ward ninety-five fe€t, then widenhig td the
Wfld foutti thirteen feet fix inches. These houfts
ave the convenisnce of a public alley adjoming
for on the north fide, and are * very durable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa&or,or others who
may have occafton for storage of goods. This
olce property wiU bie fold on very reasonable torins
fotcafh. further informaiio.n apply to the
2L-i puut,r.
fth July 31. ™ &wtf -
ken WANT D,
•* *. LARGE PARCEL (IE
led Scantling and other Lumber,
"it- Suitable for House Building ;
ffice, Also a quantity of Stone &c Bricks, .
iim riady to etittr into contraifi« for the a- 1
'tf bove articles —alreafonable time may be allowed 1
TIT for preparing thim ; andeafh lhall;bepaideither
in advance, or upon their delivery, as may be a
greed on. —Apply to theStibfcriber, Houfe-Car
kavo. . pCrtter, I.ombar'd-llraet, No a.
John Crean.
rest, December 19.
iiun Uriah Smith,
No. 20, north Third street—has for sale>
A neat and general assortment of
ients Broad Cloths,Kerfey meres,Napt
and Drab Coatings. also,
A variety of Qcntlcmens' fafhionablc fancy Waist-
filk Hosiery, &c.
t)'e«ember f '
cp, at A Houie in Burlington for Sale.
KAtt. '-i-'HE fabferiber a large, convenient two-
1 It,.rv bticli llou'.l, with Stiblts, Carriage-,
p'.ica- bouse, and a well "fnpri'vgS in tHe-City
nlitv• of Builingtoii', New-Jeriey, which he wilhes to
sand, sELt. For term'sapply at No. J, Soutli. Fourth
Pfove street, to- GEORGE W.iLK£R,
y ne- Who has alftfir Sale,
™°o"f Lots in Walhington City,
N, of Contiguous to the Cap'ito! and to the principal
hirkiiir.
ljt December
JUST RECEIVED, Ci
(via Nevr-Y^rk)
AND NOW OPENING, BY FORI
George Dobson, I 1J r!
''no. a?, f»uth Third l»reet, streets,
An e-Venfive rnJ g'neral assortment of
HABERDASHERY, VIZ. be und
Bell London miit I' ins 'Galloons au 1 Ferrets i. F
Commcnrfo. do. Worsted Bindm-s.affor- the foi
Makenzie'sfupjr.pater.i ted colours fupern
white chapel N. c,rte» Imperial, duper, and 3 . {
Nuns' Thr'sad 110. 6to Thread Tapes the »c
40, regulatly.iSortcd White t'dging* foperii
Lisle do.«io. tja to .?eo, Black ;«1 rcthiured Chi- j
rc'illarly aftirteJ iTtfißi! binds south
Coloured
Black Icwing Siilrs 1 hlacfeVelvet, t .
Coloured dp. and Twill Velvet &. pelon Sattms
Silk and cott .» < irei crefith Carotin !; i„fo
f Do. di. Ribbands Scotch ' booiis
ihirt JylouMs and Wires 'Wain gilt an.. p«t#u Uonfi ,
Black b 1 cill feathers- (?uttrtn» u ,t. ai
And a cn.-upleat affo.rtUJSiK <,(G«oJi. n e
to the and fcafon.'at rtdacfd rhrir f
price, Dec. 6, . . •<«
ALI. persons indebted to the cftafe of Peter Phi
Gill, late of the Diftria of de
ceafed, Ire rcquelted to mike immediate pay- Ju
rr-.cnt t0: either of the SubJcribeiV; artd thole
who have auv demands againK laid estate, are
requested to bring in their ancouius duly attefl- 11
ed to. : A 1
1 JOHN MURPHY, 7 Execu- r
PETEK , o e r C . f^vat
1 THOMAS FAKKELL, 3 to Wl '
PhiUd. lan. i(>. 179S- - *aaw4w
* TO LET, "7
[i • y 1 n am we
A Front Room, luitable tor an aixci>
t Office "'or Counting houie, wi;h a large Cellar. J legam
Any potion who may reiitthe above, may (if re- have i
s quired) be accommodated and
int* in the fame house. at no. 180, South.
Front, near Pine tlreet. to c °
December 13. 3™3H?L-
— ' — : 7 16 nm
The History Of Pennsylvania, ftrua
By ROBERT PROUD, anc *, a
Ig n»w in the press, and will be publiftied, " e <
with all convenient expedition, byZECHA-j < fV ' l
i riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
| Pliiladelpbia, where fubferiptions will continue
' to be received, andat the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the Lhjd
work is ready for the fuhfetibers. -the p
July iB. z " wtt yak
Tin Piates, 3
FOR SALE BY ol V
SIMON WALKER, "
Pine, near Filth llfeet.
;r, December 28. ' w of th
H Mitjicai Injiritment Manufactory, warr
he TO THE LOVERS OF HARM ON Y.
ds HARPER,
ild TNFORMS his friends and the public, that he has -j-]
1 now ready for lale, a few of his new invented, Crd
(a and much admired fide board Piatio Fortes, with y ; ,
ler i Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
| flop, which for sensibility "of touch, brilliancy of
j, e j tone, simplicity and durability of conftruiftion, the
superiority of which,he flatters hitnfelf, a tingle tci- J\
i(h ial will convince the unprejudiced judge —As they year
are manufaAured under his immediate InfpeSion, ■j or
of the very beA seasoned matetials, he can fell oil has;
reasonable terms for Cash. Inftrumsnts repaired, f ar
J. tuned, &c. cam;
as- , N ' B ; Secojld hand Piano Fortes taken in ex- him
change For hew. whe
novemher 18. iaw2nio. half
' s Samuel & Miers Fiflier,
ne ■ y W V
ier ARE NOW OPF.VING, o r
£ " b ° :
the leafon, received bj t| «l»e arrivals from Eng. J
r■ ■ " htmkr
ir ?" Tbcy have also for Sale,
eir U(bon 1 ' a
Teiieriffe ( ; n . pipes.hhds. and quarter calks- <H
'• Sherry, arid ( . re!l
1 Port Wines, J m 0
aJe Aflorted queen's ware in crates, ecc. ,
:' ot lothmo- 2}d. diw 3 taW3W. _
X Samuel Pleafants Ess Sons,
* No. 74, South Second-Jtreel,
HAVE received a supply of Sealonable GOODS,
Which they are now opening for sale, on
Ifai- reasonable terms. Oft 17- 4 W
ate- • 1 fOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South tls
teen Water-street, ex
nd 3 a A general assortment of China "' r
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Dg. do. Luteftriags g
5 Do. de. Handkerchiefs
eOB Do. do. Lewing^Silks
- ~ 11
east- Qnick Silver, in tuls J
the Holland Gin, in pipes
>ufcs Aflorted Glass Ware, in cases
tting VVhiteand.brown HavaanaSugars, in boxes
itua- Molafles, in hogflicads n
w ho St. Croii Rum and Sugar, in do. y
This London particular NJadeifa Wine n
orma Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks E
. the Red, yellow andjfcak Barks, in chests r:
Logwood, flee. &c. 1
nn. 7.' —tu&f4w JOSEPH SIMS. .
jprefh Raifms.
vi b
er A cargo, just arrived, and now landing v
' Aat Chefnut ftreet-whr.rf, from thefloopYa- p
rico, capt. Halkell, confiftrng < Kegs, Bases and Jj
CKS, Jar*. A few Jars of excellent laicks e
he a . of loft flielled Almonds. Apply to the Matter d
owed on board, or to -
Jos. Anthony c£T Lo.
be a- December 19 §st
' Car ' "Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
« Payable by law on all G jodi, Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported into the Unit«l'i)ta*.es —latefl
edition, to be- fold by JOHN ORMROt), no. 41,
eh«fnut- street. Dec. 16 —d (
f : This Day is Pubhlhed,
■-«» BY Mtff. Dolifon, Cirey, Campbell, Kic ( and the
other Boolc'eilfrs,
Jant Price One DolUr and iwcniy-five cents,. ]
I Elegantly fruited on paper, and Hot■
Waist- P r 'sl ed > „ '
By Johu Thompson,
, ed „ v . A COMPAR.VriVK VIKWOF
jlkT The Constitutions
Of th« several States with each other., and with "J
. t ™ 0 _ that of the United, States: exhibiting in Tables,
ria -c- the prominent features ot eaeh Constitution, and
ilaffingtogwher th. ir nroft i-iowtaftt provisions,
ihes to nnder tlie several ht\ls of admimuraticn ;
Notes and Observations.
E K By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Suuth-Carotind,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
l r , Unittd States.
iDcipal Dedicated to the People of the UnitedStatcs.
N. B A few Cop is pnu'.iioi: an inferior pa»
:o;t per, at a dollar.
** .V.
City Commifiw; aer's 0-lice, *
Jamuuy, l-tb, '797. ■ fc'
FOR the INFORMAI I >N OF THE tl llirNS. I
'T'HE following arraHgemcnt is made by the
JL faiil Commillioneis, for eleaufing the
llreets, &c.
JlWrid No 1. —Front the north CJe of Vine
street to the f-mth fide of Mulberiy fireet ; to
be und»r the fuperintcitdaace of Nicholas IKcks.
t. From the south fide of Mulberry ftreos, to
■ the south fide of Chefaut street to be under the
fuperimlance of William Moulder.
' 3. From tlie south fide of Chefnut ftrtet to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperinrendance of Joseph Claypoole.
4. from the- north Sdfc of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cadar street, to be under the fu
j perinUndance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
llie Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
, boons, which|iv.. been kept tmm
u tion flrice December 1796 are ba'aaced to the 31ft
ult. and wiU during the present month remain
open at his Countiwg-houfe in Chefnut Street for
1 rheir further investigation and fcrut-ny.
JAMES GR£KNLEAF.
r Philadelphia, Jan. ill 17§8.
JuJi received a Fre/li Supply.
I Engliili Grammar,
t- Tud fec-ond edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different claffcs of I learnerij
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
1_ fervations for aflifting the more advanced students
to wtite with perspicuity and accuracy,
By LTNDLEY MURRAY.
"Thi sis a publication of much merit, and fully
anfwets the profeffions in the Title. The apptn
fl- dix contains '■ oirte of the -bell rules for writing e- illj
r. j legantly, and'with propriety, that we recoiled; to
e- havefcen.", •
I- Monthly Review, July 1796.
tli " This Grammar is, on many accounts en titled
to commendatory notice', its materials have been
carefully and jmdicioufly feleded ; iw arjangement',
is diftind and weH adapted to the purpose of in
llrudion and its expreflion is simple, perspicuous
and accurate, Si.cC'
J See the charcfler at large in the Analytical
A _ j Review, 'July 1796.
:t ' ~~—
ue English Exercises,
■y. Adapted to the Grammar lately publilhed by
h e Lindley Murray, consisting of exemplification of
J th.' parts'of ftjeech. oftbo^riiphy,
che rules punc
tuation, and. violations ol the lules refpedjng
perspicuity and accuracy, defigncd f»r the benefit
of private learners, as well as for theufe of schools.
" We ffave' been much pleifed with the perusal *
of thefc Exercises. They occupy with diftinguifli
ed excellence a m'oft important place in tlie fcicncc
of the English language; aud a* such, we can
I'j warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
' PthoOls, as well 116 to all those who are desirous of
attaining eorrednefs and predfiori in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797-
136 The above Books afeforfale at J (jsF.ru & James
Crukshanks book store, No. 87, Market street.
■'b Januaisy IX. 3tawjw.
of ~ 60 Dollars Reward.
the nAN AWAY fram the fubferiber, on the 24th
td- Lv of December, !797, a Negro Man, about 52,
ley years old, by the r. ime of Cato,he i» about 3 feet
on > 7of 8 inches hfgh, Tni'dlifig well proportioned; he
on has a very colife vdice, his fore tedh'ftand very
cd, far apart; there were one of two withhitn—l
cannot rightly describe the cloaths he t'ook with.
ex " him, for he took two or three suits ;he had On
when he went away, a pair of kersey trowfers, a
half worn drab coloured coAt, a half worn wool *
hat ; he took with him four very £ood 'fliirts—l
1 j exped he has made for Philadelphia or the jerieys.
Whofoeyer take» up said ceg< o and ft cures niin, so
" above reward, -
in Still PohJ, Kent county, Maryland.
n? ' January-2.
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
liks- the centre of the fcity—for which a generous
rent'will be given; to be taken tor a year, or on
more for a longer term. In4uire of the Printer.
v _ Oft. 17- eotf
Valuable Books,
Just received by tlie Faik American from
3DS London, and now opening'and felling by
. on' T. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
pv Catalogues
Of the newly itnp6rtedbooks maybe had gra
• Bth tis. Thele added to O's ufuiil stock, form an
C xtenfive and ejtgant colicQioti of ancient and
modern literature", and cottprife books in lun
ina dry languages and on various fubjefts.
This Day is Published,
By J. O.Rmrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely
bound and lettered, and emhellithed w/ith an
elearant frontil'piece and severity three cuts.)
ft. .. *-:-b o l.fe fW tiiuJXljnd,
OR,
The Juvenile Friend j
oxe - s Being a valuable cofledion of interefling and
mifcelldneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the-happy eftetfls of youthful in
nocence and filial affetUon—lii prole 1 and veri'e.
ilks to iriiprove and aniiife£he jwi *~
ration. ■ ' '
In the PreA, and will be speedily publiftied,
•'••• Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subfciiptlohs for this incomparable workwiU
be fhankfijllyf.eceived liy the printer. The book
aiding wBl cont-i'ia about three hun dred pages, will be
-P Ya- printed with a new type on fine and de
es and livered to fubferibers neatly bound, letffred and
--faicks embelliftied with an elegant frontifprectf, far one
Vlafter do | !jr .
, January 3. 3t.
§' ct This Day Published,
£S, Second and Cheftiut streets,
d Mer- Price 3-%tbs of a Dollar,
-latest Observations on certain Documents
J°* Contained in No. V and VI of
— " The Hlftery of the United States for
the year 1 796,"
nd the In which the charge of speculation againfk
jimXANDER HAMILTON,
, j. Late ShcaiTAay of the Treasury, is FULLY"
1 REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise llatemeut
of the base means pradil'ed by the Jacobins of the
United States to afyerfe the charaders of thofs
jjjrfous who arc cotiiidcred as boflile to their difor
ld with gajniing fdiemes. It also contains the cor
l ab,es, refpendtnee between Mr, Xfanulton «nd Mtftrs.
Oil, and Mom-oe, Mufiltuburgh iitid Venable, on the fub
jvifions, j c( st 0 ( thedocnments'alorefiid, and a feHts of let
-1 ; 'vith ters from James Reynolds amlhis wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond thepolTibvJity of a doubt,
that tFtfe conned ion between him and Reynold;,
was the result of a darihg confpiraov on the part
of the of the latter and his associates to extort niOnty.
<gT A discount of one third from the retail price
States. will be made in favor ol wholefal; purchaf. r«, for
tiOr pa- cash. Ordeis to be addressed to Mr VouNa.
Ah^ui 1 25.