#Ssette of m SnittTJ A- Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1784.J
FOR LIVERPOOL,
u"3~T the saiP
Ijgl LIBE R7 T,
Isaac Vriden, Master,
A good new vefTel, fails well— coi
Lying at Clifford's Wharf, will fail about thetentho rep
next-month, a considerable part of her Cargp bein the
engaged*—For freight or paflage apply to the
JOHN SKYRIN, be f
No. 96, North Front Street. fefl
N. B. The Liberty is intended to return oneof ply
the firft fall veflclsto this port.
may 29 . dtf ,
FOR SALE, ~
THE NEW AND |REMARKABLE EAST SAILIN'C
jSKSLMAXTMILIA N t I
John J. Whidbee, I'Jkr,
lying at Jcffe & K.bert .
Wain's wharf—her length •» 69 feet 6 inches
brend'h, 10 feet, 5 inches, depth 8 feet 6 inches, *
measures l«4 65-95 tons, and is completely picrc d
and fitted to carry 14211n5. For terms apply to no
GEORGE PLUMS TED, rc<
No 766, South Front Street, ah
Lljieiuife from on board said Schooner, co
A Quantity ot Peas. ™
Kiln dryad Indian Meal in barrels, and 439 bar * Ci
reta of SU p-Stuff.
also, ~
120 Tierces of Rice,
Landing from on board the Schooner Elizabeth, E<
Captain Hatch.
miy 25 4tiwiw k.
For Cape Francois,
NORTH AMERICA,
Barnes, Master,
fail in eight or ten days.—For
freight or paflfage apply to
Pratt & Kintzing,
No. 95, North Water, near Race Street.
WHO HAVE FOR SALE,
Port Wine, Claret, Madder, Brimeftone, Red
CruJl Cheese, TnrAfelert, Tioklenburghs, Heffens,
•Brown Rolls, &c. &c.
may aj eodot
FOR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably fall failing Brig
PENNSYLVANIA, r
JittEMtAH Tat km, matter. J.|
She will fail in ten days —for
/•reeht or paflUge, apply JAMES YARD. f
Walnut-flreet Wharf.
may 23
{ For Sale, or Charter,
THE armed ship
BE LV ID ERE, j
Jonathan Reynolds, Majier, 3
LYING at Jefleand Robert Waln's
wharf, burthen 256 tons, built at
Netv-Ygrk, by Mr. Cheefeman in 1791> ®* ;
oak, cedar and locust—was completely coppered in
London last year with 28 ounce hard roiled navy »
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to !
be a Haunch and fsft failing (hip, i? well fbuod— 1 |
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to fca in (
a few lays at a very littU expence. ■ For terms of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's, or at No. 26, North Front ,
flreet, to
RICHARD D. ARDEtf.
WHOHAS FOR SALE ON BOARD SAID SHUP
10 Tons dry white lead
5 Tonsot shot
13 Tons rotted Iheet lead
20 Bales English Duck, assorted numbers
10 Tons whiting
The Ship Belvidere, if not fold or Char
tered before Wedncfday next, will take freight for
London.
may 19 §
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 casks of nails assorted
ao bales ©f fail eanvaf*, from No. 1 to 8
53 calks yellow ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
London particular ) Made|ra
Wines
India market )
Tenenffedo. in hoglheadsand pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineta Blc.
aiTorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and9inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing states, ink stands aad prefles
ao purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale framing twine
160 bundle* sheathing pa^er
A M A Z ON,,
jffir F° r Sale, or Charter.
Nickliit tsf Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
JUST ARRIVED,
In the br!gGayofo,capt.Bmgham, from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
J A few groce Porter Bottles, new •
And twenty calks Vinegar
Enquire of
Jehu HoUingfavortb & Co.
No. 22, Little Water street, South,
april 20.
" ~ FOR SALE.
Havannah Sugar
200 Hides
Will be landed to-morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig A&ive, Will
iam Williams, matter.
And may tike in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jebu Hollingfivortb iff Co.
mirch 30. $
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to fcrve, is a
good coachman y an excellent waittr, and
has been accuftomrd to marketing for a family—
bin age about thirty two year®. For fu ther parti
£u'*r«, apply at the office sf thii Gazette,
mfly 15. §
By John Fenno, N o> 119 Cbefnut Street
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAT 30, 1798.
TO BE SOLD t LET,
Or exchanged for property in the city of
Philadelphia.
A Valuable Two Story Stone House, and lot
or piece of ground, in Potts Town, in the
county of Montgomery. The house is in good ]
repair, and the lot made into a ufeful garden ; a
there are a number of good fruit trees therein, .
the fitua'ion is high and healthy and one of the • „
heft for any kind of bufmefs in the town, pof- ,
feflion will be given immediately—fo,r terms ap- anc
ply to William Nichols the
No. 117, RaceJlreet. | anc
may 29 |
"The Germantown & Reading 1 acc
Turnpike Road
THE Cr.mmillioners appointed by the a<sl of
General Afiembiy, entitled, "an to j
enable the Governor of tfiis commonwealth to |
incorporate a company for making an artificial I th<
road from the citv of Philadelphia through Ger-«
mantown &c. Give Notice, that the books are |
now opened at the City Hall for the piirpofe or r
receiving - .
able to their former advertisement and will be
continued open from the hours of ten in the 0
morning till two iu the afternoon on the 29th vei
and 30th instant.
City-Hally Monday ") I fai
,28th May, 1798.) 3*
The following Certificates of a i
funded debt of THE UNITEDSTATES . P'
STANDING on the Books of the trcafury, were j
forwarded for London by th« Ihip William , ill
Pcnn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured, •
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz : ! f e
3164. Ba. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev. J
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britliin, dated June 2, 1797* Certificate * r
No. 10,072. ' c
8021. I?. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of f c
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797- No » li 1 ? 6 - .
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, ofOrmfby, in the county of Nor- *2
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797- No. U
10199. fe
20183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street, ,
London, W;dow, dated Odober 31 1797. No, 4
11820. r '
For the renewal «f the above Certificates, apt
plication is intended to be made at the said office of
jhe Treasury of the United States, —and all per-
sons concerned aredefired to tak j notice.
ALB0 —IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen shares Stockof the Bankof UwitedStates,in a
the name of William Manning,of Ormfby, \
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates r
for five shares each, dated January I, 1797- c
No. 25982, 25083, 25984.
For the renewal of which,application is meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, —
' aud all persons concerned therein arc desired to t
„ take notice. i
s JN. rAUG HAN. t
[ Philadelphia, may §6w
1 The following Certificatesof Shares ,
r ' TN the North American Land Company, (landing
> ; 1 on the Books of said Company in the name of
■ i Dan ef Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
-1 dlefex, England-i-viz. No. 2151, representing 1
0 —ijo66to 1
1 13075, ten fhans—No. 2149 —130561013065, j
1 ten shares—No. 2148 —r 1509 to 11518, ten lhares
—No. v 2i47 —11471 to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by tke
fh.p William Penn, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the r«
newal ©f which, applicaiioa will be made to the
Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I M6w
r Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, t» James
C. Fiiher, Samuel W. Filher, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
quested to furnifh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to m\ke immediate payment t©
the Subscribers, acting Aflignecs.
James C. £ff Samuel IV. Fiiher.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 , 4tawtf
" TO BE SOLD, by
John Nixon Ssf Co.
c _ A quantity of very excellent LOG WOOD
NOW LANDING AT THEIR WHARF.
re may 10. 3 avvt f
TO BE SOLD,
By John Nixon Ssf Co.
A few hhds of excellent St. Croix SUGAR and
RUM, which will be landed at Will ngs and Fran
cis' wha.if Dext Monday, the 21 ft instant.
may 16. t eot^
A Country Seat to Let.
NEAR ths Frankford road, about four and a
half miles from Philadelphia—the situation
remarkably pleasant and healthy. Immediate
pofltflion may be had Apply at No. 144
South Stcond Street.
may 4 3tawtf
FOR SALE,
At the Store of Jesse & Robet Waln,
On Spruce street Wharf,
Port Wine in pipes, hhds. & qr. casks
Lisbon Wine in pipes and quarter calks
And a few pipes of excellent Madeira Wine
may 16. eotf
FOR SALE.
" QEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
_ O mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made tofuit the purchasers. —
These situations are conlidered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city,
m- and the road known to be fa fe and good at all
ill- seasons of the year. The title indisputable —A
plan of the grounds is in the hand.* of the sub
scriber, \*ho will make known the terms on ap
-0 plicarion to him at his office Ho. 124 South
' Fourth Street.
4l " ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
may 2. , 3tawtf
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank of Pcnnfylva
nia, for such Flan of a Banking House,
accompanied with feAions and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Dire&ors. The building is
s a not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or 100 feet
ind in depth, and to be so planned as to admit of its
r— being made fire proof. It is rcquefted that the
rti- plans may be sent to the Cashier of the Bank, pre
vious to the firft of June next.
J april 19. tuthtsije
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Un
1 or
Monday, May 14. arr
Mr. J. Williams, from the committee nit
appointed for the purpose, reported a bi 1 r c(
to amend and repeal in prt the aft more ef- yf!
feftually to provide for the national defence, f U(
and ellablilhing an uniform militia throughout vo
the United states, which was twice read a ri
and committed. th
Thfe Speaker, laid before the house the p r
accounts of the Treasurer of the United be
States, of the receipts and expenditures for d c
the quarter ending the 3 ill of March lalt,
which was ordered to be prinkd. do
Mr. 3'tgreavej prefentea a memorial to
the President, Senate and House of Reprq- {fr:
ftntarives, of the Judges, Grand Jury and to
Sheritf of the county of Bucks, approbato- ca
ryot the conduit of the Executive in his
late negociations wi h France, andexprefiive f o i
of confidence in the future measures of go- fit
vernmert. wl
I Mr. Sewall presented an address to the th
j fame effeft frcm Salem, Maflachufeits. fh:
Mr. Sprigg also ptefented an addrefa of ni
a similar kind, from Upper Marlborough, in tj
Prince George, Maryland. an
j Thefs addre(fts were severally referred as he
I usual. Pc
■ Mr. Hartley obtained leave of absence w
i for Mr. Thomas for a weik. th
Mr. Wadsworth presented a petition th
from a number at ma(l«rsof vessels praying r_>
for the ere&iou of a light house on Penob- hi
scot Bay. Referred to the Secretary of the pi
Treasury. th
Mr. Flndley said, the situation of his at
family laid him under the necessity ofafking
leave of absence for the remainder of the in
feflion. He said he fliould have aflced this ;1\
leave some time ago, if jt had not been for j si
' the hotice*v!iich the gentlenan from S. Ca- ! rr
rolina (Mr. Harper) ga»e some weeks iince, I d
that he meant to accuse him at the bar of the c
f house, on account of some letter of hi 3 which o
' he { Mr. H.) referred to. He did not know
precisely the letter spoken of. He had leen I
1 a letter in one of the papers of the city with b
| his name to it, which he was neither prepa- 0
3 red to acknowledge nor deny. But, in or- \
' der to give the gentleman time to bring this i
„ matter forward, if he (hall think proper, he 1
would ask leave after Friday next. As to t
o the manner in which that gentleman had
in roduced this business, h should fay no (
thing. He was not afraid of fuffering in <
the pub'ic ellimation from any thing which 1
s that gentleman might fay of him.
| Mr. Harper had no objection to the gen- t
J. tleman's having leavp after the day he had 1
g mentioned, or any other. As to the charge
0 he had mentioned it to be his intention of
S> bringing forward against that gentleman, it
:s required so.Tie time to colleft the neceflary j
evidence to support his charge ; and he al- j
d, so stated, when he intro uced the fubjeft, j
< that it was not his intention to interrupt the >
:e public business with it. He had received;
the neceflary teilimony, and as soon as the
house had patTed on all the public measures
_ before it, if the gentleman was then in his
feat, he (hould bring the matter forward. If
o- not, he (houid of course, take no farther no- j
sI tice of it.
Mr. FI ndley did not know whether mo
e" tions of thi* kind were in order ;if they
were, the house might expeft them frequent
tB ly to be made. If the fubjeft was brought
before the house, they would judge whether
it was proper for their deliberation, or not,
and what kind of teilimony would be fuffi
cient to substantiate the charge. He had
never asked leave of abfelice from his duty
since he came into the public service before
® lall summer, when the iitu&tios of his fami
ly made it nJceflary ; he was sorry that the
fame cause called him home at prcfent.
Leave was granied.
The Speaker laid before the house
nd communication fr m the General Pod Office :
.0- ; n a r,lwer to the enquiries made as to the j
conveyance of the mail to Kentucky and j
Tenneflee, which was referred to the com
mittee 011 Poll Offices and Fed Roads.
1 a The house again resolved itfelf into a
on committee of the whole on Ihe bill for au
lte thorizing the President of the United States
44 to raise a provilional army ; when the ques
tion being put on the fcftion providing for
the calling out 20,000 militia at a time to
be trained and disciplined, it was negatived,
N , there being only 11 votes for it.—This sec
tion was objedted to on the ground that the
constitution has placed the training and dis
ciplining of the militia in the feve al dates,
and that Cohgrefs had power only " to.pro
— vide for calling forth the militia to execute
the laws of the union, suppress infurre&ions,
m- and repel invalion ; rcferving to the dates
ira respeCtively the appointment of the officers,
' and the authority of training the mill ia ac
,T cording to the (Jifc pline prelcribed by Con
ty, S refs -"
all The two neV feflions recommended by
-A the felefit committee were agreed to as fol
ib- lows, with very few observations upon them :
>P" " That it shall be lawful for the President
1,11 of the United States, at his discretion, upon
the requed of any military corps edablidied
f by law, ia any date, disposed to inform
themfeltes in the use of artillery ; or of the
executive df any (late, in behalf of such
corps, to fuffer to be loaned to them, such
pieces, not exceeding two, to any one corps,
gis of the fitfld artillery of the United States, as
feet may be moll conveniently spared, to be tak
lts en. removed and returned, at the expense of
t ' le the the party requelling ; who are to be ac
countable for the fame, and to give rece pts
e according'} - ."
" 'That the President of the United " tatea Mi
shall be, and he is hereby authorized, when be
under his orders, a y por ion of the militia, coi
or any volpntccr corps, (hall be called forth , my
and engaged in the aftual service of the U- pi-i
nited States, to fuffer to be loaned, at the V.
requell of the executive of the date from wc
which such militia shall be called forth, or of coi
such volunteer corps appearing to be una. th'i
voidably deficient, afupply of field artillery,
arms and accoutrements, from the arfenalsof ftr,
the United State», as the cafe may require ; for
proper receipts and ftcurity being given, to thi
be accountable to return'tlie fame, the acci- pr<
dents of fervi e excepted." cle
The next f.-ftion recommended to be a- cei
dopted was in the following-words : he
■« That the President of the United States pn
shall be, and he is hereby authoriz-d to ca .fe pr
to be purchased and procured a quantit 1 -' 01 tci
caps, swords, or fahres, and pillols with hoi- th;
ders, not exceeding what may fufficient br
for four thoufaud cavalry, and t ' be depo- as
sited in the parts of the United States, th
where he shall deem it mod convenient, for
the fupplv of any corps of cavalry which ju
shall be called into adual service of the U- vv
rvi ed States, and which the President of the th
United States hiay loan upon the terms H
and the like receipts to be accountable, as j ca
herein befor - provided. And for this pur- ol
pose, aid towards defraying the cxpences di
which may be necessarily incurred before cc
the next feflion of Cougrefs, in executing tl
the other purposes of tliis a£l, a sum, nor ex- m
exceeding dollars, IhaH be, and is rc
hereby appropriated, and shall and m vbe t(
paid at the Trelfury. under the orders of t(
the President of the United States, out of F
any money, not already appropriated.'' it
Mr. Sewall moved to si.l up the blank ] t
in this feftion 900,000 dollars, lie ;tl
supposed 50 or 60,000 dollars would be fuf- 1 a
| ficicnt for purchasing the accoutrements a
I mentioned ; the remaining 140 or J 50,000 j
| dollars, would be rea y in the l'reafury in j t
cafe of emergency, for the other purposes li
of the a£l. j f
This mode ot proceeding was objected to. f
It was thought by some that it woulJ be , t
bell to appropriate only for ,ihe purchase j
of the articles fpecified, and provide for the t
whole expence of carryidg the aft into effeft 1 c
in one sum, either in this law or some other ; <
but it was finally carried as it danda, and ; t
the blank was filled with 200,000 dollars. | 1
1 The last additional feftion proposed for \ ]
exempting private soldiers from arrefl for ;
1 debt or contra-1, during their term of fer
-1 vice, was then agreed to.
The original bill i felf was now returned
- to, and the firft and second feftions having
I been agreed to, the third, which Was in the
! following words, came under view :
f " That, in addition to the afortfaid number
t oj troops, the President is iereby empowered,
f j ij in his opinion the public inter ejlfhall require,
■ j to accept of any company or companies of Wan
, ! teers, either of artillery, cavalry or infantry, \
e ; who may afjoc\nte und offer themselves for the
d \ service, who fhzll be armed, clothed end equip
e pe<i at their own expence, and wbofe commifft
-8 oned officers the President is hereby aulhoriztd
s to appoint; who shall be liable to be called upon
f to do military duty at any time the Prfident'fhall 1
)- ' judge proper, and when called into aß'ualfe/- |
■vice, and while •• em,lining in the fame, shall
)- be under the fume rues and regu attons, and
y shall be entitled to thefame pay, rations, forage,
t and emoluments of every Una, excepting bounty
it and clothing, as the other troops to be raised by
:r this act. Provided, Such vo unteirsfhdU not
t, be liable to do duty in any place, but in the slates
i- to which they rcfpelliv ly belong, or in an ad
d jacentfate."
y Mr. Harrison moved to strike out the
e words, " and whose commiifioned officers
i- the Prefi ent is hereby authorized to ap
le point." As he supposed these volunteers
would be confidcrcd in Lhe light of militia,
as they would be included in the cenfua of
a ' citizenship ; and if so, it would be uncon
:e I ditutiot.a. for the President to appoint the
ie | officers, as their appointment was exclufive
d i ly veded in the individual ftate-. A further
1- i reason induced him to this amend i.ent. The
President, ft is well known, is Commander
a in Chief of the militia when they are called
i out; but he would not be Commander of
es these corps, except called into the field,
f- Mr. Varnum moved to ltrike out the
>r whole feftion. It app.ared to him that
■ 0 permi ting volunteers to arrange themselves
d, in f parate companies would have a bad ef
c- feft upon the mi itia; for as they would
ie chiefly be the moll sprightly young men who
f- entered into the volunteer corps, there will
s, be lcfs spirit left in the remainder of the mi
-- litia to perfeft themselves in military difci
te pliue. He knew that the introduction of
is, vounteer corps into the militia of Maffa
es chufetts was thought to have produced a bad
■s, effeft. Many of them have been discharged
c- and he believed they went into the corps to
n- which they belonged as regular militiamen.
Befidcs, he thought there was a privilege
5y granted to these men, which ought not to be
il" granted to any citizen of the United States.
1 : They are not liable to do duty in any place
nt bat in the State to which they belong, or in
jn an adjacent date ; aud the President was'au
ed thorized to accept of these volunteer corps
m to any amount. What would be the confe
he quence ? The greatest part of the militia
ell would join these eoips, and by that means
ch be excused from duty, except in their own
us, or an adjoining date- This could not be
as proper. \Hc looked upor. it as injurious to
k- the citizens at large, for any class to be thus
of exonerated from duty. He thought it di
1C- reftly in the face of the conllitution of the
jts United States. [Mr. V. read the contlitu
tional provision with refpeft to the militia.
[Volume XIII
Mr. V. supposed tli-fe volunteers could not
be called any tiling else but militia. 1 hey
could not be looked upon as a part ot the ai
my ; no (landing force would ever have thd
privileges granted to these volunteers. Mr.
V. hoped the time was not come when it
would be thought neceffiry to violate the
confliiution in order to raise up a defence for
the country.
Mr. Sumter seconded the motion for
firiking out the whole fc£tion. He took it
for.granted that when gentlemen compound
this provision with the Conllitution, its im
propriety would appear. Nothing was raore
clear than that the appointment of the offi
cers of the milit : a is vetted in the Hate, and
he was furpriled that an attempt like the
ptefent Ihould be made to violate so clear a
provision of the Cqriftitution. Without en
tering at large into the lubjeft. he traded
that it would at once appear so Arrant i
breach of.the rights of the Individu-d States,
as not to be countenanced by any member of
the committee.
Mr. Dana observed, that the gentleman
jutl fat down had that this fe£tion
was so violent a breach of the Conllitution
that no one would be ft'uf d to support it.'
He Ihould, hovvever, be in favour ot it, be
i eatife he did not believe it violated any rule'
of the conllitution ; and .he re.ifon why lie
did not think so was, that he could not
conl.der these volunteer co ps as a part of
the militia. If there be any charaQeriititf
marks by whiqh to a.militia ftom
regulars, it is that the former are compelled
to serve, and the litter enter voluntarily in
to the service. This bid provides that the
President, if the public interell (lia!l require
ir, fha'l accepl of any company of volun
teers who may oiler tliemfelves, armed, clo<
; thed and equipped, at their own expence,
j and therefore they could not be conlidered
as militia.
These volunteer corps, until calld in o
j the field, will receive no pay, but they will
learn the military exercise aud difciphne, and
| surely gentlemen will not coniider the con
stitution violated because these persons chufe
to perform this previous service without pay.
j These corps would clearly be enlilled into*
: 1 the public service, whenever they made an
: offer of themlelves, and that offer was ac
; cepted ; but, because they clothe and equip
I themselves, and receive no pay except when
called into service, certain privileges are pro
- i pofid to be allowed to them which not
r allowed tootVer soldiers. Phis he thought
- fair, as these volunteer corps would furnilH
an army in readinefa for any emergency, and
1 without expence until the emergency ar
r rives.
e But the gentleman from Massachusetts
supposes, that the admission of these corps
r will operate an injury to the militia, by ta
I, king from it thole young men who are belt
qualified to make-good soldiers. This ob
-- jeftion, Mr. D. said, was contrary to expe
i, i vience both in the militia and army, were
\e volunteer corps have been admitted. Indead
>- of injuring the militia, he believed it would
t- be the means cf transf'ifing a military ardour
d into them, from feeing it exill in these corps,
n \ as they would be unwilling to be outdone in
11! (kill and discipline by the volunteer corps.
- | It would not injure a good militia, and it
// might improve a bad one.
d If there be militia volunteer corps, well
e, difciplincd and commanded, who chufe to
tj make an offer of their service to the Prill
]>y dent, they wili be accepted, and when call
ot ed into the field hey would be conlidered as
ts in the service of the Unite' States. BuJ if
J- there be other companies ot militia whowoukl
wish to make art off;r of their service, but
le who have no confidence in their officers, it
rs would be proper that the President Ihould
p- give them other and better officers,
rs Mr M'Dowell fiid, that the gentle
i, man lad up had observed, tl.at to admit these
)f men in the way propo'ed would not be a vi
i- olation of the conllitution, because they are
le volunteer corps. What he meant he did n«t
e- clearly utideilland. He thought it was a
;r violation of the express words, and more
ie particular'}' i<f ihe ipi«it of the conllitution.
zr It was declared expressly in the conllitution
:d that the oflicers ot the. mill* ia Ihould be ap»
us pointed by the several dates, and these men
could not be considered any ether thin mili
le tia, until they were enlilled into the service
at of the United States.
es Mr. M'D. waseenain. that drawing the
f_ active young men from tlie militia into these
Id corps, would have the effecl which had been
io mentioned; besides that it w.uld break in
ill upon brigades and dmlions in a manner
li- which would create great inconvenience, and
ii_ dellroy the good order of the militia,
of Mr. Harper did not think it necessary te
a- go into any lengthy arguments to refute the
nd conllitutianal objeftion which hadbeen made,
ed This relied upon a matter of fail, viz. wile
to ther these voluntary corps we.e io be conti
n. dared as militia or regular troops. If tlity*
ge are militia, it is certain the Prelident cannot
be appoint the officers —if they are r-gulars, he;
is. ce tai.nly can. []Mr. M'Dowell asked where
ce the gentleman would (hew the enlillment.]
in The diftindl property of militia is tlws—•
u- They are obliged to perform military duty,
•ps whilst the service to be pe formed by thefs
fe- volunteers was an aft of their own. I hefe
t;a volunteers, then, are to be conlidered as re_
ins gular troops. But ft wN.
ivn Car. linaafked where he found the enhdment.
be It was true he did not find the wo;d, but lie
to found the thing. They offe'ed their service
ius to the President in numbers, and it ,made no
di- difference in fa'ft whether the offer of service
:he was thus made, or individually. What, said
tui he, is an en'illment ? It ii an engagement
lis. to perform military service for a limitedtime. Thi» these vojunteetl woald engage, |
and their making the engagement in a body I
would Hot be less effe&ual than if they were
to do it individually. When soldiers are
enlisted in the usual way, they receive boun
ty, clothes and equipments, and immediate
p«y. Thefr volunteers are to receive none
of these, but orily pay when in a&ual ser
vice, and therefore it i» provided they mail
not be called out of their own (late, except
loan adjoining state ; that they (hall chufe
their own officers, and that those officers
shall be appointed by the Prcfident. And
would any gen'leman fay thai the United
State* have sot a right 10 make a contrast
with men in this way ? He believed they
could not seriously fay so. Will . hefe vol
unteers be less soldiers, on account of the
different terms upon which they are engag
ed ? Are they not to be fubjeft to the fame
regulations and military command, and in
all refpefts to be trea rd and looked upon
as soldiers? Except that their officers will
be appointed by themselves, and they are !
not to be marched beyond an adjo ning state, !
they will be as much >egular soldiers as the '
armies of France or Austria.
But the gentleman froT Virginia (A'lr.
Harrifon) said they could not be confiaered
as a part of the army, because they would
remain citizens, and be includsd in tne cen
sus. He was himfelf rriftaken if regular
troops were excluded from the census. He
believed the fuldier was as much a citizen ad
that gentleman or himfelf. Suppose the
proposed army of 10,000 men were to be
raised, would they not be entitled to all ihe
rights of citizenship to which they would
have been eatitled had they not become sol- i
diers? They certainly would.
As to he expediency of the measure, he 1
fliould not go into many observations upon
that fubj'-ft. It was said that the raifingof
these corps would derange the militia; but
gentlemen will recolle that this is only a
temporary eniiftment, and when the period
of service is elapsed, these persons will go
back into their ranks in the militia. The
militia would be no more deranged, he be
lie'td, by the forming of these corps, than
it will be by the railing of the Provisional
Army. And will no bentfit arise from the
return of these men into the ranks of the
Militia ? Yes, they will carry with them
their military knowledge and experience,
which would be transfufed into the whole
militia corps, and being wrll armed and ac
coutred, a spirit of emulation would be ex
ci'.ed in the rtft of the militia to become e
qually so, These men will also be well fit
ted to become officers and military inftruflorS
in the militia.
What benefit i>ould accrue in the mean
time ? The country would have the advan
tage of a large body of troops who would re
ceive no pay, except in time of service. And
is not this an obje£l worth obtaining ? Will
those gentlemen who are so loud in their
complaints against expence objeft to the
railing of a body of troops without exprnce ?
He could not conceive upon what ground
they could do tly'& ; nor dould he fee why
the United h'tates Ihuuld c It from them a
voluntary service of this kind, in the present
time of danger. Such aconduA he thought
would be improper in every point of view.
Mr. Brent said the present was a very
important question, and as the usual hour of
adjournment was arrived, he hoped the com
mittee would rife and have leave to fit again.
Mr. Allen hoped not. . He wilheci the
quellion now to be taken.
The question on the committee's riling was
put and carried, 43 to 29. Adjourned.
Tuesday, May 15.
Mr. A. Foster presented an addrefsfrom
the town of Dover, in New Hanipfhire, ap
proving of the conduit of the Executive in
its negociation with the French Republic, and
exprelling a determination to support the
raeafnres of Government.
Mr. Bartlett presented an address to
the fame effect from Gloucester, Massachu
setts.
These addresses were referred as usual.
Mr. Josiah Parker presented certain
Resolutions of Captain Magnien's Company
of Grenadiers, at Portsmouth, Virg. (a copy
of which was published in this paper on the
16th inll.) expreflive of their opinion of Go
vernment measures, and of the present filia
tion of tilings betwixtthis countryand France.
011 Mr. Parker's moving to refer ihefe
resolutions to the Committee of the whole on
the State of the Union,
Mr. Sitgreaves said, if he had heard
these resolutions rightly, they contain a libel
on the Government, which ought not to be
referred.
Mr. J. Parker hoped these resolutions
would have the usual reference, although
theremight be some expressions in them which
may appear severe upon some of the measures
of Government, as they wind up in terms
which are very patriotic and worthy ofatten
tion, viz. that if this country Ihall be invad
ed by any Nation whatever, they will turn out
in defence of it, he trulled they would have
attention paid them.
Mr. Sitc reaves said he did not mean to
go into an argument on this fubjeit, or to ques
tion the right of the people to address their
sentiments to Government, and on all padoc
cafions in which the right has appeared in
some degree quedionable he had always voted
for a reference rather than make an objeition
to it; but nothing, he believed wasmore true,
unquestionable as the right of petitioning may
be, that it ought to be exercised with decen
cy, and some regard to truth. He did not de
sire to go into an examination of the senti
ments contained in the refolutions'which had
been read, but 110 mail he thought could deny
that ihey contain a libel the mod unfounded,
and that they are exprefled in language the
mod indecent and unwarrantable ; and if the
house wished to preserve the right of an ex
preflion of public sentiment, they ought to
guard against the abnfe of it. He hoped,
therefore, they would not be referred.
Mr.. Thatcher said, these resolutions
contained a serious charge against some per
son or persons not named. If such person or
persons has or have committed crimes against
the Nation, he or they ought to be punished ;
but it would not be right to give countenance
to charges which might be applied to inno
sent persons.
Mr. J. Parker was extremely ferry that
any fhould be made to the refer
ence of these proceedings. He did not think
the language was stronger or more indecent
than that of some other addresses which had i
been received by the houfc. The triofl seVere
part of it was against the British Government.
He had, on a former occasion, heard the gen
tleman last up speak very improperly ot the
President of the Executive Directory of
France, and he did not know why these peo
ple (hould not take a like liberty with the
British Government, if they thought proper,
though he acknowledged it was not right to
give way to harsh expressions against any Go
vernment. He saw nothing in these proceed
ings 4vhich rendered them unfit to be examin
ed. I f the sentiments were not founded—and
he believed some of them were not —ofcourfe
they would have no weight j but as they con- j
eluded with faying they should at all times be
ready to defend the. country, he thought they I
ought not to be treated with disrespect. He
knaw the fubicribers, and knew them to be
worthy and patriotic characters, and good
officers.
Mr. Brooks could not agree with the gen
tleman from Virginia, that because the latter
part of these proceedings were patriotic, that
it ought to give currency to theother. If so,
it would be impoflible for any person to write
a libel. The gentleman from Virginia fays be
is acquainted with the fubferibers, and that
they are good officers. If so, they ought to
have known how to couch their sentiments in
a refpeitful manner. It was a little extraor
dinary that people (hould take this m'ode of
traducing persons high in office. Every man
muftknow who was meant. It wasevident no
other person could be meant than the Presi
dent of the United States. If they think he
has abused his trust in the way insinuated, why
do they not come forward and impeach him f
He could scarcely believe that such illiberal
and scandalous abuse could proceed from any
other than vifcious dispositions.
Mr. Brent said, that all the gentlemen
who have opposed the •reference of this re
monstrance have said, that the fubferibers, if
; they thought the President of the United
> States had ailed improperly, ought to have
; come forward and impeached liini. He had
supposed th«fe gentlemen had not been so lit
tle conversant with the confiitution as not to
have known that the right of impeachment is
confined solely to this house. He had conceiv
ed that addresses of this kind were intended to
exprefsthe opinion of the people-on great and
important questions, and that objections were
not to be made to them on the ground of
form. He did not remember an instance of an
address ot thiskind being refufed a reference.
He believed, that during the present session
addresses had been received fully as excepti
onable as this ; but it happened that those
sentiments corresponded better with the opi
nions of certain gentlemen in this house, and
they were not therefore objeited to. He re
collectedthe Houfehas been frequently told in
these addresses of a French party in this coun
try who were ready to facrifice it. Yet these
were referred, but because the present procee
dings express opinions unfavourable to the
conduit of administration, they are objeited
to. If this was to be the way in which ad
dresses from the people were to be treated,
the object of them would be entirely destroy
ed, since none would be admitted which did
not flatter the conduit of a majority in this
House.
Mr. Dana asked, upon what principle ad
dresses were referred? He supposed it was
that they might be aited upon. The question
was not wheth. o the people had a right to
fend this address, but whether the house
ought to refer it. What is dated in these pro.
ceedings ? An accusation is brought forward
against persons high in authority : it dates the
late dilpatch-is from France as having bfen
improperly held up to view as the ait of the
French Direitory; meaning no doubt, to cen
sure the conduit of the IJjrrfident for having
feiit them to the Senate for ha
ving published them. And could this house
make charges of thiskind, abafis upon which
to found any resolution ? Certainly not. If
was not because these persons have exprefled
an opinion that public measures have been
wrong, that their address is objedted to j but
because it contains chargesof criminality.
Mr. Brooks called for theYeasand Nays,
which were agieed to be taken.
Mr. Macon hoped these proceedings
would be referred. This was the tirft instance
he believed that opposition had been made to
a reference of this kind- In the cafe of the
British treaty, addresses had been receiv.-d 011
both fides the question couched in very drong
terms indeed, but which nevertheless had al
ways been referred. At a time like the pre
sent, when all (particularly those gentlemen
who oppofethe reference of this address) be
lieve this country is in great danger, he should
suppose it would be imprudent to reject an
address from persons who are well attachedto
the Government, and wbo express a determi
nation to defend it in every time of danger,
merely on the ground of etiquette j for he
was persuaded, the fubferibers neither intend
ed to offend this house nor the government.
The part of the country in which these per.
sons reside, is also apart inVhich their service
may be required. Ourconftitutionguarantees
the right of the people to address their senti
ments to Government, without defining the
manner in which they shall do it; and though
this address might not be exprefled in very
refpeitfitl terms, it may nevertheless con
tain some truths worthy of consideration j and
if it were not referred, the addressers would
undoubtedly fay that the House were afraid
of investigation.
Mr. Gallatin said, it appeared to him
that gentlemen who opposed the reference of
these proceedings, do it upon the ground that
a reference of a petition or address implies an
approbation of it's sentiments; for his part, he
always looked upon a reference as a mere mat
ter of form. It was true, that if a petition was
worded in what was called indecent language
(about which indeed there might be foine
difference of opinion) it might be good ground
of objeilion ; but the indecency mud arise
from the language itfelf, and not from any
sentiments which it contains. He owned the
language of this address was drong, and some
of its alfertions perhaps unfounded, yet he
did not fee that it was written in such a style
as to warrant a refufal to refer it. But it was
said, that it would be improper to refer this
paper, because it contains nothing upon which
the house could act. Supposing this to be
the true criterion by which to judge the pro
priety of a reference, which he did not allow,
throe fourths of the matter in this address is
such as might be ailed upon. It reprobates
navies and military eftablilhments, and ap
probates the doitrine of the militia being tne
true defence of the country, and concludes
with faying whatever may be their private
opinions as to the pad meaf ires of govern
ment, whenever an invasion or infurreition
(hall take place, they will be amongst the fird
to defend their country. Indeed if petitions
were objeited to on account of the manner in
which they were drawn, it would be necessa
ry to fend out a form of petition to the people
when upoa any great quedion their opinion
was wanted. Mr. G. thought it would be
much the bed course to refer all these ad
dresses, without a dilcuffion the only effeit of
which was to give them more consequence
than thfey otlierwife would have! and anne
celTarily to obltruft public bufineft.
But he would remark, that this was not the
firft time that addreiles had been objected to
by gentlentenT because the Centime 11 ts which
they contained are disagreeable to them. Two
instances of this kind had occurred during the
present feflion. One of these was a petition
against the arming of merchants veliels, from
Cambridge in Massachusetts, the reference of
which was only carried by two votes ; the
other was a petition which he himfelf pYeient
ed from forty-Tout gentlemen, members of
the Pennsylvania legislature, which was ob
jected to, merely because the petitioners Hat
ed that they were members of that legislature.
The difcullion was interrupted by a melfage,
and he did not think it necelfary to trouble
the house again with the business, and the ad
dress yet lay upon the table, without being
referred. But yesterday an address was pre
feuted by his colleague from the judge?, grand
jury and fherifF, of the county of Bucks, con
taining different sentiments, which was coni
mitt ed without objeftion, though it was lia
ble to the objeiStion urged againit the address
[which lie presented, as it came f rom indivi
| duals (fating their official characters, at the
time they were doing an ait which did not
I pertain to their office. He was himfelfin si
! vour of the reference, because he did not
think it objectionable that ptrfotts fliould de
scribe themselves in this way. But it clearly
proved that the cbjeft of many gentlemen on
this floorwas toencourage complimentary ad
drefles, and to discourage petitions containing
different sentiments. 4
If he had been a member of this company,
Mr. G. said, he would not hav» drawn the
address in the way in which it appears. If he
had thought the opinions correit, his own
idea, of propriety wolild have told him it was
not right to have thus exprelTed them. As to
the matter itfelf, he believed the molt objec
tionable part is a mere matter of opinion.
They fay that the propolitions made to our
cominifTione:s in Paris, were made by persons
unauthorized ; and that authority has been
given to what appears extremely doubtful
and problematical. So far they may be mis
taken, but they have aright to express their
opinion. In the next place they mention
that they view with concern the attempts
making by men high in authority to widen
the breach between the United States and the
French republic, by imputing to the French
government the criminality of thof'e unautho
rized agents. He did not believe that this
could be denied. The thing was true. He
did not allude to the President of the United
States, because he did not recollect that he
had ever gWen such an opinion ; but gentle
men on this floor have repeatedly spoken of
the overtures made by those agents as coming
from the French government. Another ob
jectionable exprellion is, that " they view the
man, or let of men, as inimical to the rights
of 1 the people, and the found principles of
their felf-government, who shall, by any falfe
colouring, attempt to give the.ltamp of au
thenticity to . what is doubtful." Though
they had a right to hold their opinion, yet he
would agree that they had formed it without
ftifficieiit proof, and ought not therefore to
have exprefled it.
But there are opinions as injurious to some
gentlemen of this house as this is to others,
yet no oppolition has ever been made to their
reference. The people had a right to form
what opinion they pleated of gentlemen en
both fides the houfe>andan exprellion of ihefe
opinion's certainly could not be a good ground
of objedlion against committing them. He
recolfecte'cf that two years ago, there came a
petition from acounty in Virginia, which went
to cast a direct censure on a vote of the house
with refpec't to the right which was then de
termined ot'appropriating, or refuting to ap
propriateior thecarrying into effect any trea
ty ; it .was i(i fact a libel upon the vote of the
house, as it (aid the measure was done with a
view of encroaching upon the powers of the
Executive, yet it was referred without objec
tion ; which was a clear proof that a commit,
merit nevery; in the opinion of the house, im
plied an approbation of the petition referred.
Mr. G. recapitulated his reasons forwifh
ing the address to be referred. He did not
think error (supposing the fubferibers are
n in their opinions) could be corrected
by fotce—convince these inen they are in the
wrong j but truth is to be enforced by argu
ment and not by a mere excrcife of'power,
such as to refufe to commit or to throw under
the table the petition, as such a measure could
have no tendency but to inflame the minds of
the petitioners, and to ri-vet them (till more in
what might be supposed to be their erroneous
opinions.
(1 'o be continued.)
LANDING,
At Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Brown,
Matter, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hoglheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SA LI. *"
With two pair four pound C
VPV' NON, and one pair l alb. CAR
may 29 §
The Rev. Dr. Blair's
DISCO URSE,
Delivered on the late National Fast Day.
Is just Published, by
James Wattmus, isf Co.
And may also be had of the principal booksellers.
The firft volumeoftheWeekly Magazine
With an appendix containing the Prelidcnt's
mciHige and tKe dispatches is now published,
and may b« had of the publishers—the prin
cipal booksellers in Philadelphia—by George
Hili, Baltimore and by Alexander Somerville
New-York*—A few copies of the Dispatches
may be had separate.
may 25 eodtf
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt an«! Bank of United States
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Counted of Leicsfter Packet, in the nth
month, 1797, which veflel has been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to bs loft.
4000 dollars \\ per cent. Stock, landing on the
books of the Treasury, in the name of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th,'96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank «f United States
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 26067, dated the ift day
of Janaary, 1797.
For the renewal of wkich- certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made al the Office of (he
Treasury of the United States, and at tha Bank of
United States ; of which all persons interested
therein, are desired to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, j me. 36, ij9B.
•awjm
L Ali r S of -the t/ ,V/ IEI) STA TES.
istut/iority.
Fifth Congress of the United States :
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pemifylvania, on Mon- ''
day, the thirteenth of November,
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety seven.
AN ACT
More eJfeSually to protett the commerce and
coajls of the United States
WHEREAS armed vessels failing un
der authority or pretence of au
thority from the republic of France, have
committed depredations on the commerce
of the United States, and have recently
captured the vessels and properly of citizens
thereof, en and near the coalts, in viola
tion of the law of nations, and treaties be
tween the United States and the French na
tion. Therefore :
Be it enaßed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Amer
ica in Congress ajfrmbled. That it (hall be
lawful for the Prelident of the United States,
and be is hereby authorised to inltrufl and
direst the commanders of the armed vessels
belonging to the United States to seize,
take and bring into any port of the Unit
ed States, to be proceeded against accord
ing to the law of nations, any such armed
vessel which /hall have committed or which
shall be feuod hovering on the coall of the
United States, for the purpose of commit
ting depredations on the vessels belonging to
citizens thereof;—and also to retake any
{hip or vessel, of any citizen or citizens of
the United States, which may have been
captured by any such armed vessel.
G. DENT,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
( Pro tempore.)
TH: JEFFERSON,
Vice Prejidentof the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, May 28, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Ifc Prejident of the United States.
AN ACT
Authorizing the Prejident of the United States
to raise a Provifwnal Army.
Sec 1 '' tna^e d by the Senate and
_l3 House of Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress ajfembled,
That the President of the United States
be, and he is hereby authorized, in the event
of a declaration of war against the United
States, or of adtual invasion of their terri
tory, by a foreign power, or of imminent
danger of such invasion discovered in his
opinion to exist, before the next fcfiion of
Congress, to eaufc to be inlifted. and to call
into adual service, a number of troops,
not exceeding ten thousand non-commission
ed officers, musicians and privates, to be
inlifted for a term not exceeding ihree
years ; each of whom shall be entitled to
receive a bounty of ten dollars, one half on
inlifting, and the other half on joining the
corps to which he may belong.
Sec. 2. Ariel be it further enaSed, That
the President be, and he is hereby autho
rized to organize, with a suitable number of
Major-Generals, and conformably to the
military establishment of the United States;
the said troops into corps of artillery, ca
valry and infantry, as the exigencies of the
service may require ; and in the rccefs of
the Senate, alone to appoint the commissi
oned officers. The appointment of the
field-officers to be iubmitted to the advice
and consent ef the Senate, at their next
j subsequent meeting. The commissioned
officers and non-commissioned officers, mu
sicians and privates, raised in pursuance of
this aft, shall be fubjeft to the rules and ar
ticles of war, and regulations for the go
vernment of the army, and be entitled to
the fame pay, clothing, rations, forage and
all other emu uments, bounty excepted, and
in cafe of wounds or disability received i»
f:rvice, to the iame compensation, as the
troops of the United States are by law en
titled.
Sec. 3. And be it further enaded, That
in addition to the afovefaid number of
troops, the President is hereby empowered,
at any time within three years after the
passing of this aft, if in his opinion the pub
lic interest shall require, to accept of any
company or companies of volupteers, either
of artillery, cavalry, or infantry, wKo may
affiociate and offer themfelvcs for the service,
who (hall be armed, clothed and equipped
at their own expence, and whose commif
fioiTed officers the President is hereby au
thorized to appoint ; who shall be liable to
be called upon to do military duty at any
time the Piefident shall judge proper, within
two years after he shall accept the fame ;
and when called into aftual service, and
while remaining in the fame, shall be under
the fame rules and regulations, and (hall be
entitled to the fame pay, rations, forage,
and emoluments of every kind, excepting
bounty and clothing, as the other troops to
be laifed by this aft.
Sec. 4. And be it further enaSted, That in
cafe any such volunteer, while in aftual
service, and in the line of his duty, fullains
any damage, by injury done to his horse,
arms or equipage, or by lofs'of the fame,
without any fault or negligence on his part,
a reasonable sum, to be alcertained in such
manner as the President shall direst, shall
be allowed for each and every such damage
or los».
Sec. 5. And be it further enaded, That
whenever the President shall deem it expedi
ent, he is hereby empowered to appoint, by
and with the advice and consent of the
Senatt, a Commander of the army which
may be raised by virtue of this aft, and who
being commifiioned as Lieutenant-General
may be authorized to command the armies
of the United States, and (hall be entitled
to the following pay and smoluments, viz.
two hundred and fifty dollars monthly pay,
fifty dollars monthly allowance for forage,
when the fame (hall not be provided by the
United States, and forty rations per day,
or money in lieu thereof at the current
price, who (hall have authority to appoint,
from time to time, such number of aids not
exceeding four, abd Secretaries not exceed
ing two, as he may judge proper, each to
have the rank, pay and emoluments of a
Lieutenant Colonel.
Sec. 6. And be it further enaded, That
whenever the President (hall deem it expe
dient, he is hereby empowered, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate,
to appoint an Infpeftor-General, with the
rank of Major General, and the Major-
Generals and Infpett.r-Gencral shall each
be entitled to the following pay and emolu
ments, viz. one hundred a d sixty-six doli
lars monthly pay, twenty dollars monthly
allowance for forage, when the fame is not
provided by the United States, and fifteen
rations per day, or money in lieu thereof,
at the current price ; and (hall be and they
are hereby authorized to appoint twej aids,
each of whom (hall have the rank, pay and
emoluments of a Major. And at the time
aforefaid, the President is further empow
ered, by and with the advice and consent of
the Senate, to appoi-t an Adjutant-General,
who (h»U have the rank, pay and emolu
ments of a Brigadier-General. And the
President is hereby authorized alone to ap
point, from time to time, when he (hail
judge proper, Affiftant-Infpeftors to every
separate portion of the army, confiding of
one or more divisions, who (hall be Deputy-
Adjutant-Generals thereof refpeftivcly, and
who (hall be taken from the line of the ar
my, and allowed, in addition to their pay,
eight dollars per month; and likewise to
appoint Infpeftor> and Sub-infpeftors to
each brig ide and corps of every description,
at hit discretion, taking them from {he line
of the army, and they (hall each receive,
while afting in said capacity, an additional
pay of fix dollars per month.
Sec. 7. And he it further enaded, That fn
ease the President (halL. judge the employ
ment of a Quartermsfter-General.Phyfician.
General,cand Paymaster-General, or either
of them eHernial to the public interest, he
is hereby authorized, by and with the ad
vice and consent of the Senate, to appoint
the fame accordingly, who (hall be entitled
to the rank, pay and emoluments which fol
low, viz. Quartermaster-General, the rank,
pay and emoluments of a Lieutenant-Colo
nel ; Physician-General and Pavmafter-Ge
neral each the pay and emoluments x>f a
Lieutenant-Colonel. Provided, That in
cafe the President (hall judge it expedi
ent to appoint a commander of the army,
an Infpeftor-General, Adjutartt-G neral,
Quaitermailc-General, Phyfician-Gfnsral,
and Paymaster-General, or either'of them
in the recess of the Senate, he is ljercby
authorized to make any or all of said ap
pointments and grant cemmiflions thereon,
which (hall expiie at the end of next session
of the Senate thereafter.
Sec. 8. And bt it further euaße d, That the
laws of the United States, refpeftinj the
regulations and emoluments of recruiting
officers ; puni(hment of persons who i (hall
prdcurc or entice a foldirr to desert, or (hall
purchase his arms, uniform clothing, or any
part thereof; and thfc punishment of every
commanding officer of any fhtp crveflel who
(hall receive on board his (hip «r vessel as
one of his crew, knowing him to have de»
ferted, or otherwise carry away any foidier
or refufe to deliver him up to the order* of
his commanding officer ; ai»d the law ref
pefting the oath or affirmation to be taken
by officers, non-commifiioned officers, mu
sicians and privates ; and rtfpefting the in
serting of conditions in the inliflments : and
all other laws res efting the military elkab-
Klhment of the U ited States, excepting in
luch cases where different and fpecific regu
lations are made by this aft, (hall be in force
and apply to all persons, matters and things
within the intent and meaning of this aft,
in the fame manner, as they would, were
they would, were they inserted at large in
the fame.
Sfc. 1. And be it further enaded. That
the commander of the army, infpeftor-ge.ne
ral, adjntant-general, quarter-mafter-ganeral,
physician-general, and paymaster-general,
and the general, field and commissioned of
ficers who may be appointed by virtue of
this aft, (hall refpeftively continue in com
mission during such terra only as the Prefi.
denr (hall judge fequifite for the public ser
vice, and that it (hall be lawful for the Pre
sident to discharge the whole or any part of
the troops, which may be raised or accept
ed under authority of this aft, whenever h«
(hall judge the measure confilleiit with the
public fafety.
Sec. 10 And be it further eneffed, That
no commissioned or ftaff-officer* who (hall be
appointed by virtue of this aft (hall be en
titled to receive pay or emolument until be
(hail be ca led into aftual service, ncr for any
longer time than'he (hall continue ihtrein.
Provided, nothing in this feftion (hall be
conltruedto prevent captains and subalterns
from receiving pay and emoluments while
employed in the recruiting service- And
provided also, "1 hat naVnliftmcnt (hall take
pla. e by virtue of this aft after three year*
from the palling thereof.
Sec. 11. be it further enabled, That
it (hall be lawful for the President of th'e U
nited States, at his discretion, upon the re»
quest of any militia corps established by law,
in any Hate difpofedto inform themfelvcs in
the use of artilllery, or of the Executive of
any slate, in behalf of such corps, to fuffer
to be loaned to them, such pieces, not ex
ceeding two to any one corps, of the field
artillery of the Uoited States. as may bemost conveniently spired, to be taken, re
moved and returned, at the expense of the
party requelting : who are to be account
able for the fame, and to give receipts ac
cordmgly.
See, 12. And be it further enaded % That
the President of the United States (hall be,
and he is hereby authorised, when under
his orders, any portion of the militia, or
any volunteer corps, shall be called forth and
engaged in the artual service of the United
States, to fuffcr to be loaned, at the request
of the executive of the state from which
such militia (hall bewailed forth, or os-such
volunteer corps appearing to be unavoidably
deficient, a supply of field artillery, arms &
•c outrements from the arsenals of the U
nited States \ as the cafe may require ; pro
per rect ipts and security being given to be
accountable to return the fame, the acci
dents of the service excepted.
Sec. 13. And be it further mailed. That
the President of the United States (hall be,
and he is hereby authorized to cause to be
pHrchafed and procured a quantity of caps,
Twords or fibres, and pistols with holders,
not exceeding what may be fufficicnt for
four tboufand cavalry, and to be deposited
in the parts of the Un ted States, where he
shall drem it mod convenient for the supply
of any corps of cavalry which (hall be called
into the a&ual service of the United States,
and which the President of the United
Starts may loan upon the terms and the like
receipts, to be accountable as herein bef re
provided. And for this purpose, and tow
ards defraying the expeticts which may be
receffarily incurred before the next feffiort
of Congress, in executing the other purpo
ses of this a£l, a sum not exceeding two
hundred thousand dollars, shall be, and is
hereby appropriated, and (hall and may be
paid at the Treaftirv,' under the orders of
the President of the United States, but of
any money not already appropriated.
Sec. 14. And be it further enaded, That
the private soldiers who are and who (hall be
enlilled and. employed in the service of the
United States, (hall be, and they are hereby
exempted, during their term of service,
from all personal arrcftj, for any debt or con
trafi. And whenever any soldier (hall be
arretted. whether by mefne process, or in
execution, contrary to the intent hereof, it
shall be the duty of the judge of the diilrift
court ; of the diftrifl court in which thear
reft (hall happen, and of any justice of the
supreme ct urt of the United States, and
of any court or judge of a (late, who, by
the laws of such state, are authorized to if
ftte wiits of habeas corpus, refpe&ively, on
application by any officer of the corps in
which such soldier (hall be engaged, to grant
a writ of habeas corpus returnable before
himfelf and upon due hearing and exami
nation, in a summary manner, to dilcharge •
the soldier from such arrest, taking common
bail, if required, in any cafe upon mefne
jirocefs, and commit him to the applicant,
or {owe other officer of the fame corps.
JONATHAN' DAYTON,
Speaker ef the House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of Ibe Uniped States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, May 28. 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Pre/idrnt of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office
ef the Secretary of State.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May 29.
The canvafiing of the votes for Governor,
Lieutenant-Governor and Senators of this
state, and for Representatives in Congress,
commences according to law, this da).
The mayor, recorder and aldermen of
the corporation examine also to day the votes
for member* of assembly for this city and
county.
Married, on Sunday evening the 18th
inft. by the Rev. Mr. O'Brian, William
Dickfon, Esq. of this city, to Miss J nnet ,
Maria Helen Compadra, of the E. Indies, r
late from England.
Died, 011 Thursday evening last, at Ja
maica, on Long-Iflario, Levinus Clarkfon, '
Esq. in the 58th year of his age.
e
AR RIVED.
Ship Andromache, Bufhby, Jamaica '
Barque Adriana, Lee, Liveipool
Schooner Anna, Fowler, St. Thomas a
The schooner Favorite, Rogers, is a rived ti
at New-London from the Well-Indies. a
The (hip Eleven Sons is arrived at New-
London. a
fhc ((lip Lydia, Henderfon, has arrived t j
Dublin, from this port, in 39 day?.
Tile schooner Triton, John Thornton, ~
mailer, belonging to Philadelphia, and
owned by Mr. P. Bail, was captured on the
23d May inft. on herpaflage from Gonaives 1
to Philadelphia, by his Britannic Majesty's J
Ihip St. Albans, Capt. Pindar, on the edge r
of foundings off the Capes of Virginia, and
sent for Halifax. C 3
The following Spanish and American
gentlemen came paflciigers in the (loop fe
Ruby, captam Findley, 20 days from the
city of St, Domingo :
Don Jofcph Antonia De Urizan, regent
of St. a Fee.
Don Gaffiard De Cafaiola, Colonel.
Don Nicholas Guride.
Don Joseph Guride. .
Don Philip De Callro, and 7 servants, k
on their way to Ol I Spain. ri*
AMERICANS. P 1
I M'. Andrew Carr.
Mr. Georg- Cross, formerly owner of di;
the brig Fox of Cbarlefton, condemned at &c
St. Domingo.
Four days after failing were boarded by 5'
the Englilh frigate Acallo, capt. R. Lane,
treated politely, and wi(hed the Spanifli gen- 1 '
tleinen a plealant passage to Spain without
molcllation.
he POST-OFFICE. PHILADELPHIA,
it- 22nd May, 1798.
ic- kST ABLISHMENT OP the MAILS.
The EaJlern Mail
Will be closed on Mondays 1
Tuesdays lat 12
Wednefdavs ! o'clock
er Thursdays ' noon,
or Fridays and and
id < Saturdays
rd Arrive at Philadelphia on Ttiefdays 1
■ft W'dnf ays at 8
;{j Fridays 1 '' 5
j Saturdays & A * M *
'y *
& A Mail for Ne<w-Haven and 80/lon will he
r- every day, (Sunday excepted) at twelve
o clock (no n). #
)e A. J5 she Mail for thePoft-townson the maiD
line raft of A'ew York, as far as Bojlcn. will
be doled every Tuesday, Thursday and Sat
urday with the Eastern maii, and return with
it the fame every Monday, Wednesday and
e, Friday.
, e 4 The Southern Mail.
g Will be closed on Mondays } at£paft
s ' Wednesdays >7o* ciock
Fridays } am.
>r Arrive at Philadelphia Tuesdays } at* past
" Thursdays £ 9 o'clock
Saturdays J A. M.
y Mail for all offices 011 the Main Line be-
tween this and Alexandria, will be closed every
day, (Sunday excepted) at half past 7 oclock
A Mail for Winchester, Virginia, will be clos
e ed every Thursday, at hair past 7, a. m. and
e Fridays, half an hour before sunset,
N B. Ihe mail (or the post-towns on the main
e line through North-Carolina, South-Carolina
and Georgia as far zt Savannah,w\\\ be closed
with the Southern mails from ift May to ift
November, every Wednesday and Friday, &
0 from ift November to ift May, on Mondays
is and Fridays. The mails for all the other
e post-towns in North-Carolina, South-Carolina
,f arid Georgia, every Friday, at half past seven
£ o clock, A. M.
The Mail for the Eajlern-Shore of Maryland,
Will be closed every Monday, Wsdnefday and
Friday with the Southern mail, and arrive eve- i
e r y Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday with the :
e fame. !
y The Mail for Ne-iv-Cq/lle, CantwelVs Bridge, j
t Duck-Creek, Dtver, Frederic a, Mi/ford,
.. Gesrge-town and Dags-borough, Delaware }
Trap and Snow hill, Maryland ; Horn-Town,
Accomack C. H. and Northampton C. H. Vir
n ginia,
t Will be closed every Monday, Wednesday .
t and Friday, at half an hour before fun-fer, and
.. arrive .at Philadelphia, every f uefday, Thurf
e day and Saturday, at eight o'liock, a. m.
The Mail for Dowingstown and Lancafler 9
Pennsylvania,
1 Will be closed every Monday, Wednesday
and Friday, at half an hour before sun-set, and
n arrive at Philadelphia, every Wednesday, Fri*
n day and Monday, at eight o'clock, A, M.
t The Mail for Columbia, York' Town, Carlijte,
e Shippenjburg, Chamberfburg ,* Bedford, Som
erset, Greenjburg, and P/ttJburg, Penrtfylva
nia ; ond the pojl-toojns in Kentucky and Ten
e ' nejfeey
1 Will be closed every Friday, at half an hour
e before sunset, and arrive at Philadelphia every
9 Friday morning, at 8 o'clock, A. M.
The Mail for Potts-toivn, Reading, Lebanon
and Harri/hurg, Pennsylvania,
Will be closed every Tuesday and Thursday,
at sun-set, and arrive at Philadelphia, every
Tuesday and Thursday, at 10 o'clock, A. m.
A Mail- for Carlijle,
Will be closed every Tuesday, with the mail
for Harrijburg.
The Mail Jor Miller's-Town, (Mifflin county)
Mifflin 7 own, Lewi/lown, Huntington, Alex•
andria, Centre Furnace, Belle font, Milefhurg
Aarcrfhurg and Mifflinjburg, Pennsylvania,
Win be closed on Tuesday the 29th of May,
at sunset, and afterwards, every second Tuesday.
The Mail for Sunbury, Northumberland and
■ Lewi/burg. Pennsylvania,
Will be closed every Thursday, at fun-fet r and
arrive at Philadelphia, every Tuesday at 10
o'clock; A. M.
The Mail for Plumflead, Bethlehem, Ea/lon and
Wilkjlarre, Pennsylvania; Pitt* s-Town,
, Johnfonburg, Sparta, Newton and Hamburg,
- New-Jersey ; Gojben, Yt ard*s-bridge, New
burgh and Kingston, New-York,
VV ni be closed every Thursday, at sun-set,
and arrive at Philadelphia, every Tueftlay at 10
o'clock, a. w.
The Mail for IVwdbury, Sweedsborough, Woods
town, Safam and Bridgetown, W N Jersey,
Will be cl fed every Wednesday, at 3 o'clock
P. m, and arrive at Philadelphia, every Wednef
r*ay, at q o'clock, A. m .
The Maii for * tjion and Tuckerton, N. Jersey,
Will be closed every Wed efday, at 4 o'clock
p. m. and arrive alt Philadelphia, every Wed
nefday, at S o'clock, a m.
C In rhis advertifemeut I have marked the
times at v. hie h letters mn'l be left at the office to
ensure their going in the Mail of the day, as a'l
letters are to be marked—account j of tkem enter
ed in a book, and tranferipts of those accounts 1
made out to fend to the refpeSinje pojl-ma(lers 1
As there are federal places of the fame nirnc
in the United States, the meichants and otherb
are re que ft ed to be very particular in the direc
tion of their letters; difli ngui(bing the States, \
and where it would otnerwife be doubtful, the
Counties, in which those places are fnuated—
and when letters are not for a post town, the
ueareft poll town to the place ought to be men c
tioned. ROBERT PATTONypoJI-maJler. *
may 30 eod4t 1
FOR SALE. '
RICHMOND, 1
JV JUST arrived from the East-
Fndies and lying at Latimer's
Wharf.
Live Oak and Cedar and in every refpeft as
I excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to- 1
gether, copper bolted and sheathed. She is 80 c
feet keel feet beam, 12 feet hold, 6 feet be- a
tween decks and will carry 4,400 barrels of t
Flour. For terms, apply to
Mordecai Lewis.
may 30 s2w c
FO R~S ALE, '
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
50 Cherts of Prime Teas,
CONSISTING of Imperial, Hyson, Souchong, 3
HvfonSkin, Young Hyson and Bohej, just art
rived io the Ships Sampson and Ontario ; fcvcral com- 3
plete fe:s of elegant China ; 1000 pieces of Nankeen t
of superior color and quality; a few pieces of eom- r
mon .Vladrafs Handkerchiefs ; a large quantiiv of In
dia Silks, confiUingof Luteftringi, Sarfneis, Persians, C
See. &c. of different colors. C
a lso, for sale Entitled to the d'awbaek, j.
5000 boxes of Pate Grafle Cheese, f
in excellent order for exportation,-iuft received Dy
the ship luno and lofeph from Amftcrdam.
T. B. Free r an, T
No. 39 South Front-street, or at his counting c
house, No. 40, South Water-Hreet. e
may 30. * mf6c
Xije <Jsasette.
PHILADELPHIA,
k WEDNESDAY EVENING, May 30.
C 0. N G R E S S.
In the House of Representatives of the U
nited States, yesterday, the resolution laid
L upop the table on Monday by Mr. Harper,
propoling a lufpenfion of all commercial in
terconrfe between this country and the French
. Republic, was referred to the Committee for
e the Proteftion of Commerce and the Defence
of the country, with direiStions to report by
, bill or otherwise, without debate or division.
I The farther consideration of the bill for a
mending the Poll-office and Post road law, w s
j postponed till next feflion. The house then refol-
J ved itfelf into a ommnte. of the whole on the bill
providing for the afieffment and collection of Di
rect Taxes, which occupied the remainder of the
fitting. The only debate of any consequence which
t took place on this bill was, on a motion of Mr.
Galiatjn to ftrikeont the 13th feflion of the bill
which goes to a claflification of houf«s upon which
it is proposed to lay a tax which will produce
1,300,003 dollars out of the two millions proposed
to be raised. The question upon this motion was hot
taken before the committee rose. They have leave
1 to fit again
: Mr. Datton (the Speakci) having recovered
from his indisposition attended his duty in the House
j ycftei day as usual,
Cayt. Dale has received orders to con
( voy round from New-York, the Barque
1 Adriana.
ExtraS of a letter from Luzerne county, Penn
-1 fylvsnia, dated May 21, 1798.
" Great unanimity prevail* in this coun
' try : I know of but three Democrats here.
1 A company of volunteers to the number of
about 70, principally young men, turned
[ out yesterday. and offered their services to
their country."
A Boston Paper Cays,—Such are the
' " trifling embarrajfments" on our trade from
' French cruisers, that many merchants are
| fearfnl of tvufting property-even coastwise.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Ma. riNKa,
AN article in your paper of the t4th inft. ex
tracted from the Bolion Ccntinel, mentions that
the Frcneh Directory ar. prepaid, in cafe of our
rejecting their propositions, to take vigorous mca
furti*gainft us. What measures, in the name of
God, do they mean ? Have they not alrsady prac
titei measures the most vigorous that their malice
or avarice could fugged ? After several years of
the most villainous aggreffinns on our trade, ther
have at length, to compleat the. climax of their
• wickedn.fs, resolved to destroy it altogether. .No
• vessel, whatever may be het> cargo, can now pas,
their (hip. without beiag captured and carried in
for adjudication, and we all know that not one in
a hundred of them are ever released. Here is the
utmost that these perfidious feoundrels can attain
to ; when our commerce is deftr.yed, we are be
yond their reach ; what then do they mean by
threatening us with more vigorous measures i Do
they intend to visit our territory ? God gront they
may, that „ all W( . wi(h . We lrc d
match all the vigorthey can fend. Let their fa
cnlegious carcases once land upon <mr coast, and
I doubt not but we shall hurl conrufion amoneft
T"' h a L. mu . ch "fe as they themselves have
iubdued the effeminate sons of Italy. Have they
so soon forgotten the spirit of this country in our
late war, as to expeCt to find Italian troops to cope
w ' t , '' f? reall y consider us in this contemp
tible light, I pray Heaven to speed their arrival,
that we may convince the.n of their error.
I confefs that all theextenfiverobbeties of France
upon our property, have not vexed me mdfe than
the Ofm.on, that prevail amongst them, so deroga
tory to our honor, as a people of morality and
courage. In the firfl place, they have openly pro
posed to bri. c ®ur minilters, as a rcwerd for the
hrii»» which ibrjr, minijltrt inert to procure them ; and
when they find us averse to proliituting our inde
pendence so grossly, they, f.rfooth, threaten to
punilh our stubbornness, and take by force what
they could not gain by corruption I
As a citizen of America, my blood boils at such
inl.lence. I have indeed never served in war, nor
tryed my firmnes in any eminent danger, but
when 1 read the unparalleled rale.l ty, and brutal
tcorn, with which they treat this humble country,
my bosom Hants for the Itation of a folditr. The
indignation which such conduCl is calculated to in
spire, must surely make heroes of ns, or we have
ceased to be men.
Upon the ocean, France has done us immense
injury, and done it whh impunity, but there let
their ravages ceaf., (or in spite of their hoaftings
they will (ind the * vigor" of that country, or of -
any other, inadequate to the reduction of the ci
tizens of America upon their own foil, and the
orces that may attempt it, instead of plunder,
'hall find their graves All we aik of the magna
nimout republic, is to give us a chance to defend
ourfclves. Instead of that, theii attacks have
been entirely at sea, where they know we have no
navy to operate. Yes, they know we have no foot
hold upon the waters, and I trust they will know
with equal certainty, that tbe element which ori
ginated, (hall bound their iury—
" J'ifi there, ti' impetuous bomicij.s Jhall Jland, '
" 'There cease their haftte, and there feci our band." '
It is absurd ro talk of flibjugating America. No 1
country poffeffei of her strength aHd wisdom, was '
ever conquered, unless it was by the means of par- '
ty spirit. From this evil we are now, thank Hra- 1
vn, pretty free. Ihe eyes of our citizens are at
lengrh opened with refpaCt to France, and we ate <
as completely united as the nature of human rea- •
foil will admit. a Philadelphia voutm.
— c
To thi PRESIDENTof the UNITED STATES. c
Refpeßed Sir, 1
WE the fubfetibers being a joint com i
mittee on the part of refpeflable meetings
of the inhabitants of the towns of Sunbury 1
and Northumberland, and the vicinities '
thereof, in the commonwealth of Pennfyl- *
vania, holden for the purpose of expressing 1
their sentiments of the measures pursued by j
our government, with refpeft to France, c
and to declare to you their unanimoHS de
termination to support all the conltituted r
authorities of the United States ; beg leave '
to observe, that although among the last to E
addref3 you at this important aera of ourna- 1
tional independence, yet not the leall af
feftionate. Uniufluenced and almost unac
quainted with the common forms used on 1
occasions of this kind, we (liall speak the
language of our hearts, in. the stile of a"!'
free people to their firft magistrate, and as
sure you, that it is with admiration and h
pleasure we have beheld your conduit since J
called to the important office you now fill,
evidencing the strongest attachment to the £
* interest of your fellow citizen*, by rrsK g
with a, firmnefs and dignity, becoming tlie
__ father of freemen, the intrigues of an. art
fill and perfidious nation, tending as we
conceive, not only, to involve us in war, but
to the deftruition of that government
j whose salutary regulations we experience as
daily biddings.
We cannot but lamcit as men, and as
citizens, that a nation, once the friend and
- ally of America, on.ee her supporter in the
d hour of danger should be so changed and
, fallen ; at a time when (he declared to the
- world that her objed was to cftabliih a free
h government, (he had our warmest wilhes
forfuccefs ; but we view her now as a na
tion whose predominant passion is pokier,
trampling on all those principles which as
. fimuiate man to his maker boldly attempt
s ing to colonize the world and render every
j part of it fublervient to her views ! We fee
_ er ln 33 a Mount ./£tna, calling from
c her, principles which have a tendency to
, consume religion, virtue and liberty. Her
. treatment to this country, we conceive is
i unparalleled in the history of civilized na
. I'ons, Hie has wantonly committed depre
[ dationsonour commerce, and almost de
t ftroyed our trade, without cause, and with
: out provocation ; her complaints of the
treaty, made between Great Britain and
. ,his country, we consider as the wicked
pretence for plunder and piracy.
When we refleft on the wisdom, mildness,
. and prudence which have marked every step
taken by yon, as the head of our govern
ment, to effeft an amicable adjustment of
all differences, and to obtain a recompeucc
or the injuries our fellow citizens have sus
tained, our hearts glow with love and afftc
tion for you, while they burn with indigna
tion at the treatment received from the
French govemmen —lt is with pleasure
that we assure you that the pnblieation of
your in(lru£tioHs to our envoys and their
dilpatches have been attended with the hip
pieft effefts ; all the refpe&able yeomanry
of our country are now united in th- sup
port of our government and its measures.
We tender our services and purses to our
government to support it in any system of
defence, it may think proper to adopt.
We are attached to peace, but it is the
peace of free men, and we fhuddcr at the
idea of facrificing our independence for the
peimiffion of any nation on earth, to re
ftiain in quietude on our farms.
Our fincereft wilhes for your health, and
happiness, attend you ; and we pray the
great, disposer of human events to continue
to bless and endow you with wisdom and
fortitude to govern us, in this hour of dif
ficulty.
Abraham Scott,
John Buyers,
Hugh Hughes,
Bernard Hubley, jun.
John Boyd,
Thomas Grant,
Jacob Gearhart, jun.
Daniel Smith,
John Cooke,
John Carson.
Sunbury, May 16, 1798.
ANSWER.
To the Inhabitants of the towns of Sunbury and
Northumberland, and t.heir vicinity, in the
State of Pennsylvania.
Gentlemen, t
I have received fropi the hand of Colonel
Hubley your ?ddref», by your committee.
When you observe, that, although a
mong the lalt to address me, at this impor
tant crisis, you are not, the lead affe&ion
ata : when you assure me it is with pleasure
you have beheld my conduft, since called
to the important office I now hold, eviden
cing the strongest attachment, to the inter
eft of my fellow-citizens, becoming the fa
ther of freedom, when you assure me, that
your hearts glow, with love and affe£lion
for me, while they burn with indignation
at the treatment received from the French
government, you touch the tender fallibil
ities of my heart, and excite my warmest
gratitude.
I wilh it were in my power, to fcften the
colours of your pidure, of those who in
jure and insult us.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 24.
At a meeting of the citizens of Calvert County,
at the Court House, on Tuejday t the fifteenth
day of May, 1798, after public notice being I
given; Benjamin Mackall, in the chair y
John Turner, Secretary.
The following resolutions were adopted.
Refolyed unanimoujly, That the President of
the United States is entitled to the thanks of thi
meeting, for his prudent, firm and patriotic ad
miniftrat'on, and for his wife, randid and sin
cere endeavors, to obtain an amicable jwijuft
ment of the unhappy dispute with the French
republic.
Refolded unanimoujly, That our Envoys in
the dilcharfe of their duty, merit our eileem
and approbatibn.
Refolded unanimovjly, That although we sin
cerely deprecate a war with all its concomitant
calamities with any foreign power, yet we wilJ
most cheerfully encounter every danger, rather
than to fybmit to the depredations so diflionora
bly committed against our commerce.
Refol-ved unanimoujly» That we view with ab
horrence the attempts made by foreigners and
others, to alienate our fellow-citizens from the
government of their choice, that we are deter
mined to support the constituted authorities of
the United States, and that we will repel any .
invasion on our rights and liberties, at the risk ,
of every thing that is dear and valuable.
Refolded unanimoujly, That the chairman be <
requeued toenclof# the foregoing refo'u'ions to «
the representative of this diftrift to be by him t
preferred to the President and Congress of the
United State?.-—By order of the meeting
Benjamin Mackall, President.
Attejl John Turner, Secretary•
Tu the Citizens of Calvert county, in the State
of Maryland.
Gentlemen,
Yeur resolutions of the 15th of May have
been commun cated to me, according to your
desire, by your reprefeatative in C«ngrefs, Mr.
Dent.
Your thanks unanimously voted to me, are a
great reward, and your eileem and approbation
r of our Knvoys in the difchargc of their duly !s
„ very acceptable-to m:.
Yourrololutionsmoll cheerfully to encounter
every danger, rather than-to submit to t~e de
precations on our commerce, fa difiianorablv
' committed and tie abhorrence with which yr.tf
view (he attempts made by foreigners and others
i to alienate oqr fellow citizens ft OIT] the govern'
ment of their choice, your determination to flip.
. port the' configured authorities of the United
States, and svery invalj«n of your right®
and liberties, at the riffc of every thing that ii
dear and valuable, are wife'apd virtuous.
JOHS ADAMS.
Philadelphia, may iSth, 1798. 1
DIE Z)]_On Monday the 11ft inft. yi the 19th
yearof hLr age, Miss Sakah Toknir (daughter
o. Ue Rev. Joseph Turner) and oft Wednesday fol
lowing, her remains wtr. interred in the Burial
Ground of St. Paul's, attended by her relation,,
tneods and , number of refpeflable citizens.
Wheu her last breath, -ere nature funk to reft,
HermeekfubmiffiontohercoDexaiefA); '
When her last look, 'ei* thought and feeling fled,
UTk"'" 8 L S l C!m ° f ho,,e ami ,r ' un >oh (heU ;
What to her foul its glad assurance gave.
Its hope in death, its triumph o'er tne or.ve ?
The tweet remembrance of unblemUVd youth,
1 he inspiring voice of innocence and iruih.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED,
Ship Clothiery Gardner, Liverpool,
Brig Harriot, Fan ae man, Cape-Francois
Schooner Eagle,. Aylder, Richmond
Swallow, Cany Shelburne, N. S.
At the Fort,
Schooner Indujtry, Cotton, Porto-Rico, 11 days.
The brig Tivtns, Keeler, of this port, taken oH
her pajjage to St. Croiz, is cleared at Guada
loupej the only one out of 30.
brig Pomona, Morton, from hence to the Hu'
nyana, on her pajfage -was hoarded by the Sri.
tijh frigate Topaz.e and a New-Providence pri
. njateee, and handfome/y treated. When inJight
of her port, iuas captured by a French pri-vateer,
and conducted into the Havanna.
X lie (loop Dolphin, Holt, from Leogane
to this port is captured, and sent i to I ott
ail Prince, papers gone t . the M ,1c for trial.
<- aptain Dunn, from New-York, informs,
that he saw the £>t. Albans, with her convoy,
off Larnegatt, on Sturday afternoon, wind
noitherly ; that the privateer schooner on
Sunday m»rnir;g, was tfareening ,>n the an
choring ground irtiidc of t ape May, with tw<3
pilot-boats alt.ng lide : that o:. SurtrJay
night he pafßd thr Ganges Hoop of war at
Reedy Point: and saw a schooner from Ha
lifax.and a brig that came in from thefouth
ward, below—names un- nown.
, Baltimore, May 28.
Yesterday arrived, (hip Hihernia, captain
Sintthwick, 6z days from Cork ; faile.l with
convoy—tell in with a French frigate off the
western Ifies, which fired 14 guns into the
Alliance, of New-York, captain Wood ; bad
captured the brig Betfty, of Wifcaffet, from
Liverpool, bound to Charleston, which was re
taken by the St. jVlbans, a Britift 64, who K av«
chace to tht frigate, bur being to windward,
could not eome up with her.
The following Ticket is proposed to the fubferi.
bers to the Permanent Bridge over Schuylkill,
at the Eletffion to be held at the State House
on 3 ift may inftatit at 10 o'clock in the morn
ing : president,
Richard Peters.
directors,
John Perot John Dunlap
Matheiv McConnell Samuel Blodgei
William Sheaff John Dorfey
William Bingham Nathan Sellers
Joseph Anthony John Miller S. C.
Robert Ralflon David Evans junr,
treasurer,
Richard 11. Morris.
ma y *9 d 3 t'
C 3" 'he lit. Tioop of Philadelphia Cavalry
will meet on the Farade in uniform, next THURS*
DAY as 3 o £lodk in the afternoon.
0" The ad Troop of Philadelphia Cavalry will
P "S ! "lT, HURSDAY "«"> « the Upper Ferry
on bchnylkill, at 3 o'clock P.M. The trooper,
arerequefted to be pundlual in their attendance,
add pay ItritS attention to be in complete uniform
ABRAHAM SINGER, capt.
Vol UNTEER GREENS.
£3° The troop will parade en THURSDAY
next, at j o'clock P. M. in Walnntltreet, near
Schuylkill, in complete uniform ; the gentlemen
will be punctual. JOHN M6KKE.II, tapt.
(3* Those persons ol the city anr* liberties, who
are determined to support II e on itu i,,,,
pendence of their couniry ; and are »i ling t join
in the tormauon of a volumter Arrilleiy Company,
to be attached to Mscphcrlon's Blues, a.a dtfn.d to
nieet lor this purpose at the house Geo'c; H,] f„, n
re,',!, '"l. NQf L ' ! ' CCOnd 011 Saturday
next at 7 o'clock in the e»eoing.
MACPHERSON's ELUE3.-
THE Blues will meet at O': llcr.' hotel to morrow
at 50 clock I'. M. The gentlemen lately rleiled in
to the corps are desired to be punflual in then atten
dance. By order,
RICH -.RD RENSH4W, jun. Sec'ry-
N. B. The committee of e eftion willfn at lllrj
Dunwoody's Irom 5 to 7 o'clock, P. M. everyday
this week "except 'I hurlday" for the purpole of re.
ceiving applications of admittance into the corps up
on the recommendation of a member thereof.
Drum and Fife.
GOOD Drummers and Fifers, wiil receive hand
some encouragement to join Macphikson* Bluis.
on application at No. 78, Chefnut Street.
'""°y 30
bt. Andrew's Society.
THE quarterly meeting of the St. Andrew's fo
clety will beheld on *1 hurfday the 31ft inft.
at the hotife of Wm. Ogden, tavernkeeper. in Chel'-
nut near Thiid-ftreet, at 7 o'clock in the cvenine
WILLIAM H. TODD, Sec'ry
may 29, 1798.
Tea Warehouse,
otpostte "AiE
tO&T-OFtICE
THE Subfcribcr returns hr fmcere thanks for
the encouragement file has experien
ced since her commencement in
to acquaint her Friends and the Public, that'~fhe has
received a frelh supply of all kinds of Tea from th«
late arrives at New-York, &c. and it wiil be her
constant eupeavour to merit theit future support
She is in daily expeSation of receiving a large Tup
ply of geod Coffee.
SARAH EATON.
ma F 30 taStfßt
This Day will be PublijhcJ,
By PETER. PORCUPINE
A PO E M,
CALLED,
FRENCH ARROGANCE;
OR ,
" The Cat Let out of the Bag."
A POETIC AL DIAL' GUE x ,
Between the .AMERICAN ENVOYS,
And X. Y. Z. and the LaDV.
may »8. , tMadras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and mod approv«d patterns,entitled IN ]
to the drawback, jutt received, "
ANB FOR SAL! BY J
Alex. J. Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street. '
may 18. t
o- IF Mr. Charles William Klemeke.
Formerly of London, and who left England .or J
some part of the United States of Armrica, in wr
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in balti- An
more, or to MetTrs. Ifanc Hazlehurtl and Son, An
inPhiladeliJhia, lie may hear of something great- ;
]y to his advantage. Any information relpedl- 1
ing the laid Mr, Charles William Klemeke,
would be thankfully received.
may 19 *^3 W
FOR SALE. As
A neat Country House, "
TriREE and a half m.les from the city, on Ar
the WilTahicon road, w.th seventeen and a ,
half acres of land, half in orchard and half in An
g ra s s . Apply to Edward BonsallSi Co. Ar
in Dock-street, or to the fubferiber at Mount 1
Pleasant, on Schuylkill, adjoining the premises.
Jonathan IVtlliams. 1
N. B. If' not fold before the firll of June, it
will not be for sale during the fealon. '
may 19 sil_ W
Very Great Bargains, Ar
CONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotch and Al
India Muslins, now felling otf and well
worth the attention of Housekeepers to make
purchafeof Enquiieof
1 homo* Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-Jlreet. At
may 17 !_
Military Colours, Al
PAINTED ON SILK—Br
George Rutter fc? Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painterly
IN aftile which will endure the hardlhips of the
weather without injury, and wh'ch for neitnefs
and exaftitude of colouring cannot be furpatfed in
this city.
FLAGS aud DRUMS
Furnished with dispatch, en the moll moderate
ternw.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire buckets, &c. accomplittied in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter pledges
himfelf from 40 years experience iu this city will A
meet the entire approbation of his friends ani
- public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of fpecimcn's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library.
mayj d6w
notice.
HAVING obftrved an advertifemert of C. /
Gulla<j?r, in terms derogatory of our pro- /
iffional abilities we have to request the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artist* ; but to
decide upon the merits of each by a comparison ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almolt
universally adopted by\kcm to invalidate the ta
lents sos clUbliihed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and enrolling that business which
their proleffional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mutt
govern, we flatter ourfeives that tfce workexecut
cd by us will convince them ot our great superio
rity over Mr. Gulhger in every branch of por- , 4
traitiud ornamental painting, andfhew thenecel- .
si y of judging for themselves. I
N. B. 11l future no attentian will be paid to th; . •
falf-flatterii g advertifcr.icnts of Mr G. j
Any person wifliing a supply of FLAGS and i
DRUMS wit please apply to Geo. R'uttsr and
Co K'oVri» v Court, or Hisnry faAitEV, Gcrmae
tovvn. |6w ma y 8 -
iViilitary Colours.
At C. GULL ACER'S
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. JO, South Fourth, next to Chefnut (Ireet,
oppotite the Friends' lyieeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and ether or
namenul purposes (in a manner peculiar to i
himfell) durable, not to be injured by the weather,!
which tor elegance of design, truth and beauty of ,
colouring, neatnufs and mailerly oxecation, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with all poflible dispatch, on the most
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
hut in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist matter of his profelEon.
Mr. Gollaoek, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that proleffional talents, punflnality, and reason
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who will please to call at his Paint;
ng Rooms. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a malterly manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind cau ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf-
Hi-.tering idvertifements, but examine the work
. executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —favethefpoil-
ing of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
difcoyer the requisites for the crntrjiting talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may io.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro
Man, named Gbjgrw, perhaps he may pass
by the name of Ghfmtu Lie, or may Lhange bis
name ; he is a-out thirty one years of age, nearly
fii feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un
derlip, a fmallpart being bitten out between the
midd e and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has be n very fore,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
some time pall : he is a Rout, llrong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro woman o
Mr. Jolhua Lingoe, of this county. It is supposed
ths'y are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
subset iber shall get him again, shall receive the
above reward. £SME BAYLY.
Stats of Maryland,
Somerset County, april 10. J may 4 —4w
For Sale,
A Farm and Count# y Seat,
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norris-town, feventct-n miles trom Phi
ladelphia—the farm contain* 195 bc es ot land, 50
of which are woodland, aboi* 40 of meadow, and
the tell arable land. The houfc aud garden which is
latge and v»-ell paled, stand in the melt pleifant ftru
auou, commanding a view of iho river, an island
which b opposite. and the village ot Norris iown—
Ihere is a Iliad fifhery belonging 10 tl e place.—Eo
i lire in Philadelphia, No, 96, North Third Street,
ti on the oremifos.
apiil it> i»w'f
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 1
MARCH I, 179®-
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the Ail of Csngrefs passed on the filth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
mnety-fcven, entitled '• An A& laying duties on -tamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and he
A a palled on the rifteench day of December, one thousand seven hundred and nKiety-fe ven.
" An AH co postpone for a limited time the commencement of the dut.es imposed by the A« enti
tled « An AA laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment.and Paper", that from »<>
firft day of July enfaing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied a.idcollec
ted throughout the United States.
For every skin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, upon which Hull be
written or printed any or either of the instruments er writings following—to wit:
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - "nr*
Any Licence to praftice.or Certificate of the adm.ffion,enrolment .r reg.ftryot
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorn;y,j*dvocatc or Proflor, in any Court ot the
United States, - - - „ " r ,'n •.
MM that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United Mates
for one of the said Office., (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
dutyaforelaid, be a fufficient admiflion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United btates
(except for lands granted for military ferviccs) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) - - - a
Any Charter-Party, Botti mry, or Refpondentia IJond, - 1
Any Receipt or discharge for or on account of any Legacy left by any \Villor9-
ther teftatnentary instrument.or for any share or part of a personal ellate di
vided by force olany statute of dillnbutune, other than to the Wife, Lhil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One liifii
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - "
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional fu.n of i
Any Policy of Infuranceor inltrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, vetlel or
goods insured from one diftriiSl to another in the United States, 25
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (half not exceed five hundred dollars, - *5
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, " 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that shall pas. the feaLof any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular date, - 5°
Any Bond, bill tingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promul iry
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or otlyer obliga
tion or contrail, ipade to or with the United States or any state, or fpr their
uferefpeflively, - "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, -
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars,
And if above one thousand dollars, - - - " 75
Prrvided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or withm lixty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be fubjeft to only two fifth parts of the slv'y
aforel'aid—viz. - j n" ,
If above twenty dollars and i\ot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred iollai 9, Io
}f above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollar*, io
If above one thousand dollars, - - " " _ , 3°
Any Notes iffiied bv the banks now efWblilhed, or that may hereafter be e!tao
lifted within the' United States, other than the ootos of luch of the laid BanKs
as (hall agree t.jap annual composition, of one per centum on the annual ai
vUlends made by such Bapjts, to their Stockholders relptrtively, according to
the following scale. - - - " „
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - "
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, JO
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exdecding five hundred
dollars,
pn all uotes abo?e five liHwlted dollars, - " f
• Any Protcft or other Notarial a#, - " " . _
- Any Lcttf'r'of Attorney, except for an ipyflid penfiom, or to obtain or fell -
c rants for Land granted by as bounty tor military f^v.cfs
5 performed in the late war, - „„ „ ~ , . rir
' Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of gr duties, for ljf| th»i)
* five hundred dollars, - - r * "
•| For five hundred dollars an ! not exceeding two thoufawj dp^r},
" Fqr more than two thousand dollars, - * *
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported, _
J If from qpt diftriA to another diAriA of the Unijed St%te%, not baiag m the
1 i fame State, - " * " '*
" i If from the United States to any foreign port or - - >5
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, gpo.ls or sfctis, made m any
r cafe required bylaw, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
i rent or taxes, ald goods taken in virtue of any legal procefi by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Inf.railce Company, »f a share in the Bank ot
'! the United States', cr of any State or other Bank, "
d If above twenty dollars and KOt exceeding one hundred dollars, -
.1 If above one hundred dollars, - " , ,j ~ M
1- If under twenty dollars, at the rate often cents tot oat hundred dollara.
~ The dutiesaforetaid will be celled and received by the Ifupervifors, Infpefiors aud other Office,
of lufpeilion, in the several Diltruls, Survey? and D.visions of the United Vtates, and by such olhe
perfonsas shall from te time be fpccially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of
that purpose.
S ' The Supervif.rs of the faveral Diftrifls will, prior to the firft day of July and a. soon ,
may be praflicable. mark or ttamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcelsof Velhjm, Pare!:
ment or Paper, "with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the fa,d duties ; 0
'I! flamped vellum, parchment andpaper ~.a» at the option of the Citizens of the United Mates be oh
r i tained at the rates preftribed by law, by application to any Superv.ior, liifpeAor Officer of Infpedie,
5, -»pp«^ for thc distribution of Stsmp " W*.
as tfag Jjy and year ihovemcntioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
. March 10. Secretary of the Treajury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30 lb. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT byanafl of Congrtfs pafl'ed on the
loth day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a<st paired on the 6th day of July 1797* en "
titled "An ai£l laying duties on stamped vel
" lum, parchment and paper
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cate! for the drawback of Cuttoms or duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or refpedUvely, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price, of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional pr.ee will "be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each skin of Parch
mrnt, or Two Hundred Cents for each Ikin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnish
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any leiTcr quantity.
Given under my band, at Philadelphia, the
day and yeir abo'vementio^ed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
> Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And pofTeflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
22 feet front, amd 40 feet deep, with back build.ngs
ani (tables, at preftjnt in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South 1 hird (Ireet.
April 2. jL
TIkTCo-partner (hip of the Subscribers,,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson & Co.
IS this day diffolted by mutual consent, all those
having claims againlt said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Jofqh Davidfon, who is duly autho
l'ifed tofeitle the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J. MIL'I.EfL
JOSEPH DWIDSON.
N. E. The Stores at the corner ef Market and
ourth Streets 3re now to be let.—Enquire of Jo
seph Davidfon.
April s6 wfcsira
TO BE SOLD,
40,939 acres of Land.
IN Greene * ounty, Commonwealth of P-ennfy
vania, on the waters of Fifli and Wheeling
Creek9ani Ten Mile Rwn.
These Lands are fertile an J well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ngo for
five (hilling# per acre ; patented, early in 1787, ex
cept 370 c acres, which were patented in 1701 •
'part of them were surveyed in 17&3. The trati:
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very cor,
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles froir
the town of Wa(hington, from i4.to ifi from th
village of Greenefbuigh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of> thepurchafe mo .
ney, a rcafonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april at, §
" TO BE SOLD, ~~
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between tfc? northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the townihips of Hamden apd
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, irom their quality and situation,
are a very desirable objecft for any man who mean*
to invest his money to advan-age.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will 1 e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Primer,
april *l. §
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
wifti to receive two or three genteel boat ti
ers. The Houfc is handfom«ly lutnilhed; the
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well [locked with the choicest Fruit.
There arefevcral Mulical Inflrumtnts, amorgli
which is a most excellent patent Piano Forte. Th
Family have & handfoir e Coach ( which may be at
theferviceof the whole.
The Coach House and Stables arc mod excellent
-the Water good—and the Air unequalled ill the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zetts. dtf may 16.
advertisement.
WHEREAS the fubferiher and his wife Jam
Hodgkiufon.haveby mutual consul agreed
to live separate and apart from each other lropi
bed and board, these are therefore to forewarn ail
perfsns from trading heron my account, as by
contract (he is to support herfrlf for the future, and
I am determined pot to pay any debt of her con
tracing. HODGKINSON.
may 15- , *^ iaw
fly virtue,of ajfc&ce, of the hdjjorabJe the high court i *£]
of Chancery of Maryland, the fubfenber will fell I
at Public Sale, on she premiftfs, on Monday, the I
®sth of June next at 11 o'clock, in the forenoon, 1
HpH AT valuable and well known Lot of Ground, <
1 No. 53 , aad part of No. 54, U'C .the prooerty <
of Nicholas Slubv, merchant of this city, situated.on
Thames-lbeet, in that part of Baltimore city, called
Fell-Point, containing 58 square perches, with .all d
the buildings and improvements thereon. There are ■
ete&t-d on this valuable property, several large and
commodious b i k Warehouses, capable of contain
ing lrom J5 to 20,C00 barrels of flour, with a frame r p_
shed adjourning thereto, fulliciently capacious to
hold 1000 hoglhead of Tobacco; in pcrfeft fafety (
from the weather. From this well known property
is e. v tcrided into the water in this harbo>, an
c/.tenfiye and well conlt.- a&ed wharf,bounding on the
water 600 feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing ships of any burthen at the lowest tides. From
the many advantages this property is known to yx>tCefc,
it is citeemed equal if vmt superior, in point of com
mercial benefit, to any in this city, and mad be a de
niable ob eft to those inclined to purchase so valuable
an estate. It is unnecessary to fay more on this Üb
jeft, as those intending to purchase* will have an op
portunity of viewing the premises t previous to the
day of sale. .
The terms on which the above property is fold,
are, that the purchaser (hall give approved negotiable
notes, with security to the trustee tor the payment of
oc.e half the purchase monev with lnterell, within
three months, and the residue with intereli, within
fix months iiom the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE. j
may gB. dt2 3tnje. J
Colle&or's Office, |c
Philadelphia, May 15.» 1 79%'
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION. j *
AT the Cuftem-HiiUe, on Friday, the fi.f- : g
teenth.of June, 1798, the Mowing met-
chandiye, which remain in the Cutlom House 1 c j
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the n
owners or consigners thereof: c
(XH) eight half faggots of ftccl j a
( I'D) 202 one hale^irthweb
(FL) a quantity of ileel p
one cafe lamps
& _ a
C&C one cafe bobbin A
( VV) one small box medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one fniall box of samples of buttont
D] 1a * l^ree a ' es £* rt hweb
'VHJ >qo one ctfttc ditto
Nj 200 one ditto ditto f
eigb' jars o'»v«3
(ditto) one bundle flatc-s (
£LS~] one small b> x locks Atjj J
Will be l'old for Cath, !
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of June next, at the Mer
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not prev|f>ufly disposed of at pri
vate fair, r
THt FOLLOWING TRACTS OF f
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county 6f Glynn, in the state of Georgia ;
inrt th? counties Bath and Randolph in the t
* ftste of Virginia,
700.4 ?crcs :>t the head of St. Simon s Sound
confluence us Turtle and Alitamahi run ad
jqir.ing thec(.mmonj of the town of BrujUwick.
4.tcp.3 acres on Satilla and on the head
wat-'rs of the Little Satilla, adjoining l<nJ» of
W'rn.M Intofh, John Howell, & FerdinmdQ'Neal
ijqpo acres 11 Great Satilla, sajoiniog lands of
Freeman Lewis a:>d John Ho'.vcll.
4.100© acre* in Bath county, on both fides of
Green Hriar kiv«r, aJj ining lar.ds o; Jac»bWar
rick, Daniel MValium and |ohnDihey. including
30OQ acres of prior furyey*.
41000 acre- Id Bath county, on the eafh fide of
CoWpafture River, and on both fide* of the wag
gon rpad ieartirjr from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 50CO acres of prior furveya
4000 c acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of i ho mas Wiifon,
and 1 including 453* »crr» P rior furvcys.
30000. acres in, IJath county, on tli£ eafl fide of
CQwpafluije R\ver, on,the waters at Cud, liver, and
:rs o,f C»lfpAllure River,, adjoining la:: dp- if£ Jofvph
.qj Grubb, apd incluping jopp acres prior furvcys
Foi I he Georgia lauds wi l be fold in trads ol one
thoufund acres each, the others i.n the quantities
trails ahoy* d,cftrib^d.
».• Perlons to exumine the title - and drafts
:h- >f the above mentioned land-, will call lor thin
O- ourpofe on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No 41,
>b- \rth Greet ; propofais <&f purchase may he made
en o either of the fubliribers.
T. HITZIMONS,
No. —, Cbefnut llreet.
B. R. MORGAN,
No. 4T, Arch ftrcet.
JEREMIAH PARKKR,
_ No. 9, North Eighth street.
may 14. t9
advertisement.
\TQTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that hyvirtue
V JN of a, Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
tt Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
k« firll liritja.y in June nej;, part of a trad of
ind Land called, STRUGGLE, lying in Worcellercoßa
for t y, and all the red of the Real ?llate Jofhu?
ex i'ownfenil," deoeafed, for the payment of his debts.
11 • . here will be given nine months credit for the one
at half of the purchase money, and filteen months
on -redit for the ot|ier half; the purchaser or purcha
orr i'-rs giving bond with security lor the fame, on in
th crcl?; from the day of sale —All creditor! of the
said Joshua Townl'end are also again notified to
no, produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
efi- io the Chancellor, within fix months from the lid
day of December bit, that being the day or the
i Srft sale.
- WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Troflte.
may 14 §.^ w
> MAILS are now received from and
ern feat to the following places every day
lna Sundays sxccpted.
Alexandria, Va. Havre de Grace, Md.
Baltimore, Md. New Brunfwick, N.J.
lon ' Bladenfburg, Md. Newark, N.J.
;ans Boston, Ms. New Haven, C.
Briflol, P». New York, city.
n " - Charle.lon, Md. Princeton, N J.
cfi ' vjhetler, Pa. Rahway, N. J.
Christiana, De. i'rcntpn, N. J.
Elizahethtown, N.J. Walhingron, i.ity.
Elkton, Md. Wilmington, D.
Georgetown, Ptk. N.J.
i; ty Mails from Winoheder, Va. are made up every
id- Thursday 71 A. M. and Friday half an hour be
t h c fore sunset,
iaia May 12, 179?- X
Genetal Poll Office y eoot
"gtt CONTRACTS.
Managers of the alms house and houle
eJ L of employment, in this city, will receive
lent propolals in writing, to be left at said houteon
thl or before Wednesday the 3»th inflant, from any
person or perf-ns, willing to contradl for fur*
G.i nilhiag Fresh Previsions, fay, Beef, Mutton and
6, Veal, for the use of the poor in said houses for
one year: The contrail to commence on the firft
of June enf.iing j the meat to be frelh and mar
, ketable, and to be supplied in quarters, fore and
reeJ ' lmc ' a ' ternate ' or f"l e * or carcases, as re
ro _ quired. Alfoj for supplying milk for the use
, a |, of the said poor. The inilk to be ne\Vi sweet
and unadulterated, and the supply to commence
an d on the 14th of June ensuing.
co n- By order of the Board of Managers,
N. JOHN CUMMIXGS) StfyjarJ.
w may 33 dtij
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FROM BOURDEAUX,
consisting or
Claret in hhds.and Cafe«
Oyl,Capers, Olivet, Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SALE BY
Thomas Fila/imons
may 16.
' FOR SALE.
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurrahs, white Guzzies ,
Ditto, hlue Guzzenahs
Salums Emertics j j
Qorahs Mow Sannas
Mamoodies Peniafcoes
Tickirits Baftas
Rom ills Coffas
Por.eas Tanjebs
,Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazzies Carwah Cloths
An elegant ajfortment vf
Madras Handkerchiefs
senaree SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
Mordtcai Lewis.
may 25. .lw jawm
20 Dollars Reward.
RUN away, last night, from the SuMcriber,
living in York Town, Pennfylvauia, z
| German Servant man, mined John Nicholas
! Kolb, a taylnr by trade about 30 years cf age
■' and about 5 sett a inches hiph, has brown curled
| hair, and nearly bald uji his head, had on a blue
Surtout coat with a (ilk velvet cape and a dark I
blue c>at with Heel buttuns, a green reixtured |
cloth jjVket, cloth soiored thickset pantaloons a
new rorum hat, clouded cotton fioekings and
caif-ik n (hoes with firings. He is a good fchol
lar in the German tongue and speaks English ;
it is likrlv he may lurk in and ah <t4t the city of
Philadelphi as he has acquaintances there.
Whoever takes up and lecures fiici servant ill
any goal so tkat his matter can have him again*
shall have the above reward paid by me,
Thomas Owens.
mav
! RoßbkT bMITH Sjf Lc.
No. 58, South Frant-jlreet.
HAVE received by the fhij> Belvidere from
London, a quantity of Rnffia Goods, con
fiftin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c.
And by the Fannv» arrived at New-York from
OiMgo*, an afTortmcnt of Scotch goods.
They have also on hand India Nankeens*
Luteflrings,, and a variety of India Muffins*
, m"v y djw
30 Dollars Reward.
I "'HE Cellar of the Subscribers was brok«
open i&O wight, and several pieces of btor
njount ground Chintz of a let figure were car
ried off. h'jever will apprehend the thief or
thieves, or recover the goods, (hall receive the
ahov<* reward, or in proportion for any part
e thereof. ROBERT SMITH &Co. '
No j8 South Front-Jlrcct.
d may 23 jlaw I
A few boxes of Umbrellas
,1 To be Sold cheap—by 1
f Mordtcai Lewis.
may *7 diw
Ross Ssf SfMSQJS,
if HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Clothe
£ Carolina Indigo, firfi. quality
. A lew bales Baftas, Coifaes, and a quantity of
A Bengal COTTON
>" Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
BTn-aT 3 " 11 ] RUM
april z $
For Sale, " , T
°f Tlu: cargo of theb rig American iSotr. Laguira,
CONSISTING Off
Ca-accas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
es No. 112, South Fourth Street. .
april a 3 ' $
;ts ;
,it J? rem i eas.
iic Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Cooper, from Canton,
And Tor. Sijfc, by
SAMUEL. HOWELL,
At his Comptieg House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
SAM. E? HOWELL,
At his Copnpting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hylon, Hylon Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
also,
1 China Ware, assorted; black and coloured Lute
olJ firings and Sattinn, Nankeens Caflwi,,large garden
0 and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
H ~ whale-bone sticks.
"They have also For Sale,
tf * Ell wide Perfianss Bandanna Handkerchief*,
? e French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
; 1S march 8. §
\dn- 1 I. - . 1
in- Now Opening,
' l,e AtWii.LiAMM'LAwsSa<3dleMaßufaiftory,
of, No. 72,, Chef nut Street,
j" 1 A- general aflhrtment of Horseman's
ie Pifiols, dire& from the Manufacturers in London*
& ALSQ ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridie*, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartou. h B xes, Va»
id lices, Saddle Bags. Portmanteau's, Hatd Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
FOR SJLE. I '
f* \ THREE Story Brick House, on the north
I\ fide of Spruce-street near Second-street,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
!formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq»— Thi*
:lioufe is incQmpleat repair with back buildings*
jconfifHng of a Piazza, Kitclien and a handforoe
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifei>,a rsore particular description iscon
er fidered uimreeflary.
The terms of payment will be one third cash,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 1%
months with interest. For further ioformation y
t Enquire of JOHN CRAIG,
No. 1 a Dock-jlreel.
may 16 $
"ll 1 Notice is hereby Given,
, on AT application has been made at the Bark of
Jny th« United States, for the renewal of the sol-
: UJ ._ lowing live Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
and ca P tare l^e Critilh Packet, Countcfs ®f Leicef
for ter — v ' 2,
r. n No.^yoajContaining^{hares") lffued to Henry Ca
lr 3703 5 do. J zenove Nephew&Co
iar " 73a 1 do. issued to Edwtrd*
and Co.
ll^l to Samuel ahd Henry Vaddington.
pet 2928 4 do. issued to Phyn, El
"ce lice and frglis.
All person* concerned are therefore called upon/
to ihew ciufe why new Certificates (hould
i. dfued agreeably to the said application.
J april 14 eO6 w.