of ttc Uttitttl J&tat££ 9 ANE Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
By John Ward Fen no, N O, 119 Chefnut Street.
H VMB£J( PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 19, (798- [VoICM E XIV. .
_ - , ■
(&■ The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers residing in the city of Philadel
phia. All ethers pay one dollar ad- <
dit:onal, for encbfmg and directing; '
and unleft some person ifi this city will s
he come anfwerahl* for the fubfcrip- *
lion, it mud be paid Six Months in j
advance.
For Sale,
J*-;. THI SHIP
PACKET,
Hulincs Cowr.RTHWMT, Matter,
BtJRIHEN about 1,500 barrel,.
fehip-has excellent accommodatiomfor gangers,
may be Cent to sea with small "pence. SSe is lay- j
ing at Mifflin's wharf, for further particular en- \
abire of . *
Isaac Harvey, jun, or L
Smith & Ridgway.
November 16 3***
' T ~FOR sale,
the ship
PERSEVERANCE,
James IVilliamfon, majler.
Just arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi- f
tadeliihia, < f live Oak and Cedar, copper sheath a
ed in London, burthen 320 tons mounting 16
guns and may be prepared tor fca sn a few days,
With her Cargo,
* Now on Board,
of ■■ . iu
Hogshead. and $c bands
460,000 Weight 6f prim-Coffee in hhds. bfcls
and bags cs*
jI Puncheon* of Jamaica Rum. 1
ALSO, 1
Williamson, Majler.
TROM it. Ooraingo, wi-h her cargo, confiding of
43 hogsheads of Sugar,
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffer,
LIKEWISE,
jSjglL AMIABLE MATILDA,
'ygns MOUNHNG I» Guns, burthen
two tkoufand two hundred barrel* of
, afcd in aompleat order.—Apply to \
Thomas £sf John Ketland. i
november 13 / §_
For Lor\don,
THI SHIP
Captain Daniil M'Pherson,
WILL be ready to 'take hev car
go on board try- <K« Jjtl. ;..M Eor t-rmi apply »n
Rofs isf Simfon.
WHO HAVE FOR SALE, .
Superior Teneriffe Wine,
In quarter calks
Bengal Sugar, lirft quality, in boxes and bags.
A few hales of Muflms.
Rice in Tierces,
Ami a small cargo of St. Martin's SALT.
no/ember 9 dtf
For Sale or Charter,
J&||COMMERCE,
John Wood, majler.
This (hip is burthen as ptrregifter 230 Tons,
will be fold on moderate terms or take ficight
for Europe or the Weft-Indies.
Apply to the Captain on board at Latimer's
Wharf, or KILLINGS & FRANCIS.
FOR SALE,
On board, said Ship,
16 Tons of Liverpool house Coal.
nov 9 dtw
Elliston y John Perot,
Have for Sale, at
No. 41, North Water-Street,
Muscovado Sugar Bandana Handkerchiefs
f n Madeira Wine
I i™l Vir* Soal Leather and
Sail Canvals A £ w J 3 " 1 " 4 ' 8 Shad " d
Oznabrigi Hernn S s
Also For Sale,
BERMUDA-PACKET,
Burthen 108 tons- -Bermu
4la built, fails remarkably fait and it well found,
nnv 8 wJtftw
For Sale.
THE Subscriher, intending to decline the ]
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &•_
"Ihe !hop is elegant, commodious, and fulßci
tntly known for the extensive hufinefs coot in the
■wholesale and retail line ; the situation squal to
any in the city, being at the cumcr of Walnut and
feeond ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will best fuitthe purchaser
lh* terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jo*.
Wie has For Sale,
Well calculated lor the
ThePEGCY, about'3o tons burthen,
Mulberry and Red C«d r frame, and remarkably
fiout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
jgooJ order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, wul in complete order for the lumber bufmefs
All perfops indebted to the late firm »4
Gtldtfirwit & BaL'ichr, JV. i? GolJtlrwak, (jol.j
fh~*a:t IT* Akorc, or rhe fuofcrttitr, are earncftly
rcquefled t. make Iperdy paymem to
J.'VMES MOORE, jrv.
aug»st i $
FOR BELFAST\
j-l-t THI SHI*
&BL Joseph us,
'JyggSm Henrv rt. K«siN»»r, Baftcfc J
NOW Ifl*g at Mr. ttout- jf St
Sootbtvart. 'Tbh Jh'tf hi* compUat 'irdcr, and tn
•will be rtniy to take in *er car£4>on Mar.daj, *'
next, and fail wtb all foJibU Affatcb For
MG, Sl
no. ia, Bock jlreet. p
nony- 16
FOR WILMINGTON,
NJo rth-Carolina, j
t , l - t _ THH SHIP
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
1 .CrVis WILL take in frel At on very no
derate terms, and fail about the
Ifthinftant Apply to the Captain on board at
Latimer's wharf, or
Willings Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16 $
FOR SALE,
from fca—She is a remarkably
fift failing vessel built of Cedar and live Oak,
and completely armed. JAMES TARD.
nov 10 '' ''
For SALE or CHAK - ai\,
THE SHIP
, MOLL Y,
Bur'.ieiv 4200 bi'Vels of Flour,
£$£ Philadelphia built, well found
v jstiis,v4i2fc anc j fitted, ana may lie ready
to receive a cargo in a few dayt—fhe is pierced
18 giini- and mounts 12 new fn pounders, with
small arms in proportion.
THI SHIP I
DIANA,
Burthen 2,100 barrels of Flour,
''hiladelphia tuiilt of live oak
cidar, it pierced for four
teen guns, *nd mounts ten nev four pounders,
with small arms in proportion b
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
Burthen 1,300 barrels of Flour, v
, |^^ sl '^^ = ~New-K n gland built, has lately
been completely fitted, led may be ready forfea
in a few days.
For terras apply to
NICKLIN £2? GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale f c
on boardfundr.y vejfels at Marcvs-Hoox, tc
11,000 bulhels of Liverpool fine fait ft
1,100 bulhels of coals
lib crates of queens ware affortei
j tierces of bqttled porter
"TO Barrels of colrotlj.rJ faint -
4 do. of purple brown do*
a quantity of yellow ocre in casks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 birrcls mineral black -io.
H barreU Spanish brown do.
35 boxes of pipes
?9 b °doTrown ] "AYANA SUGARS
3,joolbs. prime cochineal
3 barrels New OfLeans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
20 bales of fail Mnvafs
379 fheetsof copper, aff»rted from 48 by 24
to 60 by 48 incites
Two tubs raif(d itill bottoms assorted
36 fix pound gims 4|t feet, Hcvft each
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbs each
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks muflms and ihawli
14 cases muflinets, dimities and ginghams
18 chests coloured nankeens, muflinets, &c.
12 trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of whits and coloured calfimeres
1 bale of course woollens
English nails assorted.
Oflober 27. fri.3tfat. tf.
For Sale, cr C harter.
MftlTNTINft foiirrm-n ft pnnn.
«lers, coppered and fails remarkably fall—burthen ,
about 1000 barrels.
ror terms apply to
IVtllings (3* Francis. >
Penn Street,
november , d»w
For Sale, or Charter. • -
THE SHIP
j^gjgJ- JOSEP HU S,
H. Kennedy, Majler,
NOW lying at Doughty'j wharf,
Burtheß about Two Thousand Barrels, is in com
pleat order, and ready to recciv<* a cargo.
For terms apply to
JOHN CRAIG,
No. I*, Docfc trcet. n
wovewihcr 14
Goods for Baltimore,
Will be received at the Jlores oj, and fonwardtd I
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
WHO, if they are delivered to them proper
ly directed and in sood order, will be ac
roar.table (with the exception of accidents) for
their fafe carrhge. Due attention will be paid to
dispatch.
Levi Hoißngsworth & Son.
no "- dipt
John Dobbin,
BOOT SHOEMAKER. '
ESPpC rFULLY informs his Friends and
yV the Public in general that he carries on his j
bnfinefs at No 99 South Second-flrest, nearly op
pout. the Merchants Coffee houle where gen
tlemen may be supplied in the nestefl and best
manner—he assures ;hofe who may please to fa
vor him With their commands that 110 attention
or exertion on his fide (hall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders received will bepunfliially at
tended to. r '
november j
REMOVAL.
Geokge Dobson,
INFORMS his friends and the Public in general
that he hii removed from No. 25, South Third
Street, to N® 91, South lids of near
' the corner »f Third Street, ?skl is how opening
> a very e*te»five affortmerit of
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE PRESENTiEA SON,
WHICH HE HAS jvst received,
Per the {hips William Penn, Amiable, and Jane,
from London, and per Chefapeak and Thomas
from Liverpool, and will be fold low for cafli,
or approved notes at a fliort date, viz,
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
Caflimeres, falhionable colours
Yorkshire 7 4 do. and do.
Mixed and plain coatings
W«lch flannels
: Kersey beav.r, for Spencers
t Jeaunets and cords
Velvets a r .d velvetteens
Velverets and thickfett*
7, 8, 4 4 and ii-2 cotton and linsn checks
7-8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4and7-4 bed bunts
London chintz and ohintr furnitures
Furniture cot'ons
Do. dimities
Purpleand chintz (hawls
Silk do.
y Camels kair do.^
Silk, cotton, and worded hose
India and British mufiins of every description
Black and white arape
_ Tiffany and paper fans
Hats affortcd in'fmall csfes
Umbrellas
Peelings and fattine
Laces and edgings
, Ribbands
d Sitk Modes »,
y Superfine French cambrick
j Cambrick mudius
(, Do. threads
Pulicat and Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant ajfortment of
Bruflels and Wilton Carpeting.
novtmber 17 §
k' Bond & Brooks,
Coknek or Market anb Sixth streets,
HAVE RECEIVED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hall,
A LARGE AND CENERAL ASSORMEMT 0»
DRY GOODS,
> Which they are now opening for faU, at the moll
y reduced prices, for cafc or the usual credit.
a
A capital Stand for Bufmefs
TO LET,
That large and commodious HOUSE, no. 39,
foHth Front street, direcftly opposite the Poft-Qffice,
together with the store and cellar, on the Water
ftreet fide. Enquire as above.
nov 17 n 5
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
The Cargo
Of the Jhip Lotufa,
Captain Champlin from St. Petersburg,
CONSISTING OF
s HEMP aad BAR IRON.
In the Jhip Dispatch,
Captain Benners, from Hamburg,
15 Linens,.
4 aryd a quantity of
Sheathing Copper,
h And the remainder of Jhip Rich
mond's CARGO, from Calcutta,
containing a variety oT
Coarse and fine Muslins,
c and an elegant assortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs.
Mordecai Lewis.
Philadelohia,nov. 7 d.^w
jAMEb& RiCHARDtiMIiH,
HAVE thisday returned from the country to
their SI ORE, No. 54, South Front street,
where they heve for sale, as usual, a and ge
neral aifortment of European and East-india
DRT GOODS,
Q " mod of which have now arrived and are landing,
en from the different veffek, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Customers by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, and at as low
prices for cafti cr credit,as tkey can be had else
where.
N. B A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
• consignment, to be fold by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. i, 1798- dtf
LANDING, .
From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stites, Matter, from Cape
r '" Nichsla Mole.
"* 13 Bales Socks and Flannel Drawers pq Cp
18 Do Gaiters I 3' ft* S
a Do. Rugs . 3 *
I Do. Havre Sacks ' » ' ™
'■ » » Do. Flannel Trowfct* 3 3- Sj
_ 2 Do. I ents,
Also just Imported,
ed In the Ship Chcfapeake, Captain Webb, from
Liverpool,
147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
or AfTortcd particularly toTuit the Weft-India
to Market—For Sale by
Thomas £s* John Ketland.
November 7
_ 1 he Subscribers
HAVE JUST mCHTI DAS INVOICE OF
Choice Cheshire fePDouble Gloucester
ld cheese.
lis [Per the Chesapeake from
p too Boxes of Window Glass, '
Of various lizcs, per the Jane, from London,
a- They have also for Sale,
>n 200 Casks of Refined Salt-Petre,
er _ AND A QUANTITY OF
( Fine Castor Oil.
James C. & Samuel IV* Ft/her.
November i t f
At nine o'clock.
On Wednesday Morning, H
AT NO. 40, UNION iUitT
Between Second and Third streets,
! WILL BE SOLD FOR CASH, th
1 A valuable and general afforrment ot
of Hoofehold and Kitchen Furniture.
Alio, a valuable colle&ion of
BOOKS.
CONNELLY is! Co. auSioxeert.
' nov 16 dts Pi
; John Miller, junr. M
> Has returned to the City, B.
AND IS REMOVING FROM NO. 8, CHESNUT, Pi
T* the Five Story Building, in Dock Sc
near Third-street. Sc
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods; F ,
CONSIST!KC OF Y
CalTaes p
Batias q
Mamoodies g,
5 Humhums V
Calicoes k
Handkerchiefs, &e. &c. y
The remains of a Stock of P
DRI GOODS,
Conjjlingi of Woolens only, J(
AUONtST THEM ARE,
Cloths -
Coatings
a Blankets
Kendal Cottons-
Hats, &c.
ALSO,
100 Hhda. of Old Rum, v
Of a fine flavor, 3d & 4th proof.
n"v to §
juji imported in Jhips William J?erm, A- £
miahle and Jean,from London, C
A quantity ef Canuon,Gzcs 4,6 & 9 lb. "J with balls \
Carronades, 14 lbs. fuitahle. £
Mufquets, and"] ,® A
• Piilols, for (hips use, r.
Rifled barreled Guns, Fowling Pieces, § ™
~ and Horseman's Viftois, -IT"?
400,000 Flints, cnießy for moiketi, in S*
legs. J <§
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in cases of 5® oach,
Light Caialry Swords in Cases C
Sabres, Swords and Cutlafies, with plated mounting *"
Ironmongery and Cutlery in casks, a general af
fortmeßt—For Sale by
\ Thomas Jno. Ketland,
Philad. OSober 15.
ROBERT SMITH & Co.
Nave returned to the City, and are now open
ing at thtir Store, No 58, So. Front-Jlreet,
A large and General
- ASSORTMENT OF GOODS,
Suitable to the Seafoo,
Which they have just received per the late
arrival* from London, Hull, Liverpool and "
Qlafgow (via New-York) and will dispose
of on very low terms for Cash or fljort credit.
TO BE LEI,
A House in Fourth-street, next doer to
to the Indian Queen —enquire as above.
November 6 in*
Just Arrived, 1
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, 1 anil C
now landing at Walnut Street wharf, I
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimstone.
An afiortment of valuable DRUGS, ;
CONSISTING or g
Opium, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna, (
Cremor Tartar, kc. &e.
; Essences of Lemon rnd Bcrgamet
Writinir paper
Sweet oil in bottles and flaflcs
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian lutestrings
Satins
Craves
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
_ St. Croix Sugars,
; Claret in cases
to Old Madeira Win# of the firft quality.
*t, JAMES YARD.
;e- November 3 §
notice!
ig, ALL Persons indebted to the Estate of Doctor
n- -LX. Feancis Bowes Satre, ideceafcd, are re
queftad to make immediate payment —and those
jft having deirandsagainfl the said tftate, are desired
iw to ptoduce the fame, duly authenticated, to
re- Ann Sayre, Administratrix.
a Robert Heyfham, Administrator.
November 15 daw
- ISRAEL PLEASANTS & Co.
No. 74, South Second street,
la, Have returned from the country ; and have for
SALE, as usual, a large ajfortment of
DRYGOODS,
s Imported in the last veffeU frem Europe, confiding
of articles principally suited to the prefant and ap
Th er are determined td fell off very low for
2 cash or fliort credit.
• Note. All persons indebted to the late firm of
Samuel Pleufants & Sorts, art dcfired to make im
m mediate payment to the fuofcribers.
Israel Pleas ants & Co.
N °y- i d 4 w
,a Thomas Joshua Fisher,
No. 5, Dock-Street,
have for sale,
- IMPOK.no IN different vessels,
A general assortment of
tT Coarle and hne Woolens,
7-8 & 4-4 Irish Linens, Shsetings, Tickens &c.
Scarlet and Cl«th colored Cardinal:,
.] Hats in boxes of ix each
China, Nankeen Dining fie:ts and cups ic saucers
n Black Lutestrings, T?ffatys and Satrim '
Pnngem Cloths and Hymhumi, Blue and Red
Cotton, Chappils and Pullicat lioir.olls
e, China and Engliih Umbrellas
T. Cro wley Millinjton Steel
Tin in
Shot, Frying Pans at'd
r " 6d, Bd, iod, lid K:ils, r. & e . ,
11 th months
The Subscribers
Hire received by the late European arrivals, the
Following Merchandize,
Shipped them principally on conGgamcnt, whidi
th«y offer by packag* to Wholesale Store Keepers,
•l or others, on very advantageous Urms, for cafli,
appru\cil notci, or hills oi exchange on Londua.
Medford £s* Willis,
No. 78, North Front Str»et
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calicoes, furnitures, purple and colored
fhaw|s
Muslins, plain, striped, eheckpd and ftney
Balaloie, jaconet and book handkerchiefs
Pint and lundry haberdafljery
Scotch and colored threads ,
Scarlet cloth cardinals
Durants and calamancoes
Worsted, cotton and fancy hosiery
Felt, castor and beaver hats
Yorklhire plains and liroadcloths
Plain and twilled coatirigs aiid duffills
Caffimeres and fwanfdowns
Stripe, point and role blankets
White colored and Welsh flannels
Knapt Kendall cottons
Wor lied and mohair plulhes
Pewter, aflorted in fnJall calks
Spades, (hovels, frying pans & ironmongery
An invoice of Watches &
100 ciiks nails aflorted,
nov it £
For Sale,
60 Boxes White Havanna}
N43 do Brown do ySUGAX
48 hh:ls. do do j
Which are now Landing at Chef mt-ftreet
Wharf, from on board the brig George.
Also for Sale,
_ 100 hhds. of Prime Coffee,
Old Madeira Wine of the firft quality
Carolina Indigo
Coarse East India Sugars
lis Window Glass
c. Bandanoe Handkerchiefs, cf
A quantity of India Muilins & Chintzes,
John Craig
No. 12 Dock-Jlreet.
noy 14 $
b . Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes
Velvetts
Velveretts
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbands
A- Sewing silk
f Brussels and Persia catpetts
Buttons
For /ale, for cajh or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. 143 Arch ilrcet.
lie nrt, 16 §tjani
nd _ I *' ""
>fe Imported,
AND FOR SALE BT
to 19 aAc Harvey, Jun.
No. 9, South Water Str ee t,
A QUANTITY OF
Surinam Cotton and Coffee.
Irilh linens, in whole and half boxes
nil Checks
Drogheda linen
Irish hackled Flax
Liverpool Salt and Coal.
Salso a parcel of
> Men'» and Women's Combe aflorted.
Scot's Thread—and
One hundred hogsheads of prime Aux Caye».
MOLASSES.
II mo. 11th d»w
HUDSON y YORKh^
NO. 54, NORTH FRONT STREET,
HAVE. JUST RECEIVED,
Per the la It arrivals from Europe,
A VERY COMPLETE ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
Which they 'will dispose of oh reafonablc terms»
AMONGST WHICIi ARE
Superfine and Coarse cloths, coatings,
Elastic and fancy do.
j Caffiineres, plains, duffils
■ Rose and ftripa blankets well final!
bales
Slor Furniture chint*cs, cottons and dimcties
r Callimancoes, camblets durants, moreens, and
f joans
' r ° e j Muslins ot all kinds
Velvets, veWerets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegant afTortmer.t of ribbons
t. Red, white and yellow flannels
Red and green hocking and welfli baizes
v An invoice cutlery and hardware
Cottonades, (hawls, printed handkerchiefs
7"8 4-4 11-8 checks.
9-8 & 5-4 cotton ftrip«s
Cotton, worsted and silk hosiery
1®"" do do Gloves
Threads, bindings, tapes, &c. See.
nov - 9• dlßt
">g To Be Let,
ap " And immediate po([eJJion Given,
for A COMMODIOUS Three Story Brick House
x 1 with convenient back buildings, frtnated
1 of Jt the north weft corner of Third and Walnut
im streets.—For terms apply to
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
No. 20, South Fourth Street.
f Oclober 19
i, ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS James Comming Us Co. late df '
the city of Philadelphia, antrthants, have
'» assigned over all their dTefU, real, perfom.l and
mixed, to the lubftribers, for the benefit of all
their creditors, who 0 all fubferibe the fai l
a, c ment within fix months from th- daw hereof.
NO 1 ICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, toallperfon*
who arc indebted to the said estate, that they arc
era re< l llirc<llo mafce immediate payment of their ref
poclive accounts, to theAffigrees, at their office
ted U °nt- 1 n
will be inlhtuted for the recovery of such debts as
are iwt discharged accordingly.
Join Travis, ~l
John Haddington, /
'James Taylor, f" ncc «
, * Cornell v s Comegvt J
18 mwfttD%l)t <3sasette»
PHILADELPHIA ,
MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER i 9.
THE following elegant delineation of tlie j
features of French fraternity, has just ! J
come to hand, from London. Coming as ■
it does from a man who embraced with j
enthusiasm, the early theories of the Re* i
yolutionizes, it aught to make a deep <
and lading impression ; and in this view, '
an extra number ®f them has been struck '
off, for general difleminatien. This last 1
Phjfiognimical Efiay, will, in no mean de
gree, enhance the author's fame, at a j
time, wheu i'.«at horrid assemblage of j
deprarity, contained in the form of the j-
Gallic oligarchy, begins daily to meet j.
more and more the general abhorrence of
mankind. 0
REMONSTRANCE, j
ADDRESSED
To the Executive Directory
Of THE c
FRENCH REPUBLIC, , r ,
AGAINST
The INVASION of SWITZERLAND. a '
BY JOHN CASPAR LAVATER,
Reftor at Zurich. r
—i ri
ADVERTISEMENT OF THE EDITOR. E
THE follmping very elegant and fpi- L
rittd Address to the French nation, was °'
lately transmitted by L A PATER, to Citi-
zen REtVBELL, the President of the Di- 31
reßory, with an accompanying menace,
that, if he did not receive a fatisfattorv
and immediate answer,. it should be
publifhcd in three different languages. ro
R.EWBELL Kndefcended to reply; but the a 1
complexion of his answer may be judged of *■''
by the fubfequeut proceedings of his brother
jti-lan, Citizen RaPINAT, the wanton an
barbarity and injuflice of -which, far fur- an
pass even the atrocity of those which form m '
the proper ob jells of this address. m
It should premised here, that the ve- S a
r.erable addresser has hod no fort of concern
in the publication of his forcible " Appeal," £ rc
as he calls it, to the great nation, and to tn
po/terhy: for it deserves, to be recorded in
the annals of Liberty, that no press through
tut regenerated Switzerland would have J u<
found it expedient or fnfe to print such a
defence of rational freedom.
H. NEWMAN. tre
No. ii, Batl-Allry, Lombard-Street, fid
T London. w
aft
J. C. LAVATER,
TO
The Directory of the French Republic. ev
- fla
LIBERTY, Equality, Rights of Man, ; wc
Ire the signs prefixed to all the decrees W£
and proclamations of a people, which, in wc
tnore respeCts than one, may think itfclf co
entitled to a flume the epithet of la grand fl a
nation. It cannot, therefore, be deemed ws
criminal, if I address, to the celebrated ex
parent and guardian of liberty and hu- f re
inanity, a few words, at once manly and
tree. up
Many of the able and most enlight-
ened heads admire the atchievements of (;j 0
this pedple, considered as philosophers,
politicians and heroes. What other na- C j
Hon, ancient or modern, has performed ca ,
the actions which it has done ? Who m j
Could even believe that practicable which m<
it has effected ? He who does not m;
admire, mvft be ignorant of its deeds, wc
or have loft the faculty of admiration. gr (
It may, therefore, be justly, called the ha
great nation, for It has produced the 0 f
greateft,.and, I will still hope, the most
beneficial results ever produced, by man, «
in any periocLof time ! It is an univer- «
sal engine, designed by God—it may fay, {yj
by Fate-—to transform things deemed un- Te
transformable. f a y
It is not for me, nor is it within my « ;
present purpose, to touch upon the un- «
accountable inconfifteilcies and contra
dictions, the horrid atts of injuftioe, ty- t } ic
ranny, and cruelty, of which the French f a u
nation, or rather some of its rulers,
have rendered themfdves guilty, in the j
course of the revolution. But the rights ca ]
of man, the rights of citizens, and, I ma
may add, the rights of pastors, for my f an
flock fuffers too, compel me to fay a few fjc
words on the conduit of the French na- we
tion, on its rulers and agents, with re- p O ,
fpe£t to my country. Yo
All the inhabitants of Helvetia, net
deceived by juggling phrases, calculated mc
to deceive all, can entertain but one opi
nion. The tc*rorift power, whose iron
h'aml "bends down their necks to the
trfimpet-lounds of liberty, may ftifle their
voice, yet they all entertain hut one opi- j-j
pi on—that," The French nation, which yf
" waged war for !£vjral years aga'mft the 35
" most powerful nations, for the pro
« feficd purpose, that no foreign power
"" " j'iKjuld interfere in its domestic con
" cerns, cannot derive the least right
" or fuccefs,in war, to interfere in our
" domestic concerns."
9- It may suit the convenience of the
great nation that we should form one J
l ' ,e indivtfible Republic ; the best and wisest 1
just Swiss may deem this measure highly ad
?as vantageous for Switzerland, the idea was j
eith grand and beautiful; but the French had <
Re- no right to insist on its being carried into (
!eep eSb£t; and by insisting on it in a threat- ;
cvv> ening tone, and with arms in their hinds< t
ygjj they aCted as tyrants. Any ofh-. nation 1
lad conceive, that it. wouJ.'i be highly
tondutive to the welfare of Europe. :ol <
destroy all Republics, and to reu;- ijp
Monarchies on their ruir.s ; nay ; to sub j j c
je£t all the dominions eft the globe to ;»
t ' le fiipreme chief. Well th-iti —Fir.t.—I t
cet hold the power to crucify and to release. a
1 There is a law, imprinted in the breast 5
of man, as bid as the pniverfe, as sacred t
as humanity—" Do thou not unto others ■ r
" what thou art unwilling others should j b
"do unto thee." No power on earth S
can annihilate this. law. Power does not tl
' constitute -right. A hundred thousand u
j-j armed men cannot convince the under- p
standing, that a thing unjust is just. o
France had no right, but the tyrant's d
right of superior force, to penetrate into ei
Helvetia, for the pretended purpose of p
bl _ subverting aristocracy. The subversion si
, aj of aristocracy might indeed have proved ti
ti- fi'gWy beneficial, might have met the n
)■_ ardent wishes of many noble-minded pi
Swiss; but is the highwayman, who rnur- fc
r y ders mv oppreflbr, no highwayman I ai
s . robbers, as tyrants; ye waged war against oi
k e a country which never offended you. If ; fu
c j- there existed individuals who had offend- in
r _ ed you, (I know not whether there were th
m any) you fliould have proved the offence, ar
r _ and obtained redress. But without the to
m most palpable injustice, you could not de- 01
mand redress from a nation which never in
e- g avc y°u the least offence. tr
, n i From the conquered cities, especially th
n . Berne, you carried off, as robbers, co
tg treasures 'which did not pertain to you. of
; n This was a robbery committed on all .
Helvetia; on that Helvetia which you by
, e judged fit to form into one indivisible nc
a Republic, whose treasures you thought to:
proper to consolidate into one national fr<
treasury. You robbed Helvetia of a con- ed
fiderable part of her strength, you deli- fr<
vered her from the means to preserve and ha
aflert her liberty. ca
You talked of nothing but liberty, but ca 1
every One of your a£tions strove to en- co
slave us. Can you deny it ? All your on
?> words were orders; all your counsels Jlr
x were the mandates of a despot. We
n were never thus commanded, wtien ac- pr
cording to your falfe assertion, we were ari
'd slaves; such blind, implicit obedience, wl
was never demanded from us, as is now pe
exercised, when, by your assertion, we are ca]
free. - * be
The constitution which you forced of
upon us, appears to me (a few foleciftns, tui
t_ arising from the ignorance of our fitua- mi
tion excepted; a master-piece of human of
s > wisdom, a monument of profound poli- we
a " cy. In my opinion, nothing morq sublime tei
can be devifedfor civilized men. I ad- no
10 mire this constitution, but detest the th<
si means by which its acceptance was de- att
5t manded, enacted, extorted. This is un- an
s » worthy of tliee, great nation :—-this is a ne:
'• grols contradiction of the principles thou ces
' e haft hitherto profefled. Liberty in front lor
ie of every decree; and on the fame page rea
si —■" The General in Chief commands, wh
'> « as follows; under such and such penal- fut
"" " ties." Great nation, thou must ob]
7 -> felf admit the justice of my detestation. tur
Ten thousand of thy most loyal sons must jud
fay, and actually fay, within our hearing, be
y " Switzerland is treated in an infamous inji
" manner.
" Infamous!"—a dreadful word on exs
" the lips of a civilized man ; and yet, it exa
falls ihort of fully expressing the treat- It i
■> ment which it is designed to express. tioi
e I know not what should prevent me from pri;
s calling a treatment so unlawful, so inhu- of
man, so despotic, by its true name. In- bea
Y famous is the mildest term I can find, owi
v How would you call it, Frenchmen, if chi
" we, being the stronger, and ye the weaker gai;
" power, had treated you in this manner? law
Your eloquence would, no doubt, have tro
1 furnifhed you with a more energetic, a dm
more imprefEve term. we
Frenchmen, great nation, natchlefs doi
3 people, ycu feel it; for who is endowed tv 1
c with nicer feelings than you are ? WE, If
r WRETCHED SWISS, WOULD NOT of
" HAVE BEEN IN OUR PRESENT enc
a STATE, HAD OUR COUNTRY loy
c BEEN BOLD ENOUGH TO SPEAK fh'j
" 'SOONER THE FULL, ROUND an<
r LANGUAGE OF TRUTH before all a f
, *
>n- Europe •, you would not have dared to
;ht treat an old Ally so treacheroufiy ss you
er, have done ; you would not have allowed !
nir yourselves so wantonly to prostitute the
sacred name LIBERTY. If religion, if
he virtue, if justice, had not been able to
ine restrain you; ambition would have
eft checked your boldness.
id- Yet, God knows, this is not the only
ras guilt, which prefTeS upon the ccmfcience
ad of your rulers. When in open violation
ito of the law of nations, without any form
it- al, just declaration of war, the French .
Is, troops, taking advantage of their fupe
vi riority of fftehgtty* and our
wliich, it would feein was purposely ex- }
to i cited by feme evil-minded ruler of the ;
- rench Republic, had subdued, pillaged, ,
b-" jtj . Berne, Fribourg, and So-;
r.e , leure; what did the great nation, or raj
-I ther, what did her ungreat agents ? They '
e. advanced against our friendly canton of!
,ft Zurich, and exafttd the acceptance of!
;d their~"conftitution in a violent, pereixipto
rs ry tone, in the language of robbers— '
[d : blood or money—acceptance or war. —
h : Silent, for the fake of peace, we accepted
nt the constitution with unanimity ; since ■
d unanlmoufljj and without the least op
r- position, we had already democratized
t, our state. Now we thought we had i
's done every thing which could be defir- <
0 ed ; notwithstanding the arbitrary com- -
>f pulfion on the part of France, we were i
n sincere in the acceptance of the confti- •
d tution, though it was fufpe&ed we were 1
e not. But tranfadtjpns the most unjust, i
d j proceedings the most treacherous, soon '
■- followed the firft outrage. A few days
? after the constitution had betn proclaim- <
s ed and accepted, they took the liberty
1: of substituting in its stead, without con- '
1 fulting any man's opinion, without read- '
- ing a line, or mentioning a syllable, to '
e the people,jutt declaredfevereign andfree, '
:, another constitution, framed previously '
e to the former, and far less adapted to '
- our state. We enjoyed the liberty of be- '
r ing forced to submit to this absurd, arbi- '
trary substitution, but thought that every '
7 thing had now been done on our part to '
, convince the great, the matchless nation *
. of our boundless forbearance. "
1 . We were promised, at least verbally,
i by the agents of the great nation, that v
; no French troops should enter our can- si
t ton, that not a ftu should be demanded n
1 from us. Yet the very reverse happen- n
• ed. They had the impudence to exaft n
- from us three millions of livres. They y
1 had the cruelty to march troops into our ii
canton, without the least previous appli- ii
t cation, to exhaust -our poor innocent u
- country,. In other words, they forced up- ti
: on us the liberty of fiff (ring ourselves to be tl
> Jlripped of all rational freedom. n
: All this they did under the specious e
- pretext of subverting and puni filing an p
; aristocracy, which was no more, and a:
, which, at least amongst us—l fay it o- o
' penly, unmindful of the detractions of il
; calumny—made no longer the least stir ; d,
beildes, who vested in France the right yt
I of punishing foreign fins—foreign vir- y
, tues ? The whole burthen of these three ci
- millions was at firft laid on the members ir
i of the ancient government. They alone cl
■ were to pay, not one of whom ever fat- n
• tened upon the toils of his countrymen, d
nor enriched himfelf with the spoils of N
: the peasant j to not one of whom ever fa
■ attached the least suspicion of oligarchy p
and tyranny, one single cafe excepted, re
nearly extorted by imperious circumftan- al
ces and ancient law-forms, atoned for yc
long since, and from which they did not H
reap the least private advantage men, m
who, under the ancient regimen, were yc
fubjefted themselves to severe laws, and he
obliged to swear twice a year not to a fu
ture, but a subsisting, constitution ! To of
judge them by the present form, would ec
be the climax of knavish absurdity and yc
injustice. g r
Three millions !—and for what ? To Ik
exatt one livre, would be injustice; to tb
exaft millions, is millionfold injustice. to
It is the demand, not of a civilized na- w
tion, but—l know of no other appro- iif.
priate exprefiion—the demand of a band Si
of robbers, ill organized, grown over- at
bearing by success in war, and, in their ar
own opinion, entitled to whatever they w
chufe to claim. We waged no war a- so
gainst that nation ; in obedience to the a'
lawg of our confederacy, we sent a few th
troops to the frontiers, as we had done fe
during thewhofe course of the war ; th
we did, what we could not leave un-
done, without rendering ourselves guil- th
ty of perfidy towards our confederates, ar
If the nation still pofleffes the least sense re
of justice and virtue, it (hould never- ni
ence us for what-we did. He, who is ad
loyal himfeJf, venerates loyalty in every ca
lhape and form ; venerates it in a foe, of
and much more in him, who never was
a foe. But tins band of robbers—does vc
•
;o it c<n> •K of lc\ ca or threcj of five or
iu two ? I kno-.v ;iot ; but surely it does
d ! not cor.fift of twenty-five millions—this
>c band of robbers exacted from the unoli
if gsrchic and happily-governed Zurich,
:o which readily accepted a constitution,
:e t'aat was deemed better than its ot. ii—
i which paid implicit obcdier.ee to a na
|y tion, that had no right to command—
:e three millions ! ! !
n Three millions, not to be paid by the
i- ' country at lirge, but—O horrid injuf
h tice !,—by the best, the most worthy
;- ■ men, who were not known to the French,
through the stj-ocious reports of foul
:- [ahd lurking caliifnniators; men, who, <
e ; untried and uninterrogatod, were clafi- i
1, ■ ed with oligarchic patricians. Such they
>- ; never were ; for who. does not know, I
i- ; that oyr former governors were choien 1
y ■ from among all claflcs of citizens, and t
if! chiefly by the citizens themselves I
if; Three millions ! ! from two hundred 1
f 1 burghers of a small town, while the twg (
- I thousand fix iiundred burghers, of whom c
- it confifrs, would not be able to raise c
1 that sum. And if, as rumor fays, this i
e sum is pow to be paid by the two thou- c
. sand fix hundred burghers,. since all are 1
1 accomplices in the capital crime of be- ; g
[ ing eligible for public fiations, which k
- crime the great nation is destined tcfavenge ri
- —if all are now to pay, is the demand q
: more just by being thus generalized ? v
. And if it were just, the firft fifth—(fel- u
; low-citizens, why were you weak enough p
, to pay a sou) —could scarce be raised by g
i ransacking all the plate, medals, &c. I
! Great Nation, if any sense of shame
• and humanity remains in thy bosom, ii
blush, and fay—" I was misguided, mis- si
" infonned; I blush with lharne—not v
• " one sou moie—all, aU shall be return- o
• " ed that has been extorted ; ammuni- o
" tion, forage, whatever has been re- Z
" ceived, fhal. be readily and punctual- o
" ly paid for. Europe must curie me, tc
" pofteritvmut condemn me. Far be
" it from me to aft as a band of rob-
" bers. Far from me, the shameless
" hypocrisy, to -style myfelf the friend
" of Zurich, and to be the blood-fuck
" er of Zurich."
And yet this is not all. He, \vho has
wronged, will wrong more ; he, who j,
steps beyond a certain limit of vice, flops m
not in the career of crimes. Sin is pu- m
nifhed by fin, crime by crime. Great
nation, Agents of the matchless people',
you had the matchless impudence, rely
ing on. yaur-6*perioiityin ai ths, l>y vaunt- ~'
ing menaces,- to force your ionftitution
upon the free, democratic cantons- I —can- tu
tons, which, centuries before France so
thought of democracy, were more de- 8'
mocratic than your colofial Republic can " e
ever be ; you prostituted yourselves, ra
plunged yourselves so deeply in infamy, de
as to fall on these harmless, happy tribes e<
j of herdsmen, as wolves on a flock of ot
fheeg, to rob them of their golden free
dom, and murderously to forceupon them of
your liberty m falfe affignats. Never can ti"
you find an excuse for this lavage atro- ' :0
city; you, who are never at a loss for an
ingenious turfi, to throw the delusive co
cloak of virtue around the horrors of tv- vii
j
ranny, and stamp the most enormous
despotism with the name of freedom. an
Never can you find an exfufe for this
savage atrocity, which brands with per- ny
petual infamy your revolution —your di- of
rectors, if they ordered it—your gener- •
als, if they committed it unordered —
your nation, if it grants no redress. — re |
How will you dare to appear yet among tai
men ? To lift up your eyes, and open t ' ll
your lips, to pronounce the word—Li- j
hert )'~ ofi
The gallant heroes, alone, yet worthy be
of the name of Swiss, whom )-ou beli- f a '
ed to your innocent soldiers as rebels, rar
you fancied you could swallow up, as a r - t
grain of fait. The noble Swiss—my t hf
heart bleeds yet, that we did not succour fur
them, that we—oh ! indelible disgrace uc
to our canton !—fupplied the barbarians
with cannon andaminunition against our f ev
brethren. The magnanimous an<
Swiss fought as their forefathers fought,
attended their cattle at the dawn of morn, lnc
and took up arms in their defence. And
what defence was ever more just ? They
fought as heroes ever fought, fell asloy- ty
a' Swiss, and remained uneonquercd by
the all-ttfnquerfng French. Thousands me
fell on both fides—as fluids of liberty, t jJ
the Swift ias ajfcjftns of liberty, the French pn
—What atonement to the country of cei
these noble heroes, and to the widows i' E
and orphans of these patriotic Swiss, can "J
repentance, or shame, justice, or magna- it/
nimity, ever devise, for these dreadful
afts of injustice ? What remuneration of
can ever atone for these infamous deeds
of w urton tyranny ? I v
Fr.nchmen, weeping, I cast a veil o- th.
ver many unjust proceedings, over the •
r ferocious despotism exerclfed by rrt-r:
« who call themselves your agents'; over
s many robberies and murders, committed
- in our peaceful country, on fearmlefs, d--
i; fencelefs men ; over many, many uniait
>i proceedings.
French nation, do not call thvfelf /„
grand natwnT-—Coloffil greatness is not
- true greatness. Three hundred millions
of Chinese would appear to yon ex
e tremely ridiculous, if, contrasted with
- you, they should call themselves the great
I nation. Call thyfelf the pettiest of all
. , nations, or submit to be called so by all
! nation's ; great and petty, unless thou
, dost exiiauft all thy inexhaustible refour
-1 ces to redress what yet may be redressed
French nation, in all thy writings thou
, fpeakeft of liberty which protects life
i honor, property, loyalty, innocence; and'
i this liberty alone deserves that name.
The liberty to menace, to oppress, to pil
! lage, to hurl deftruftion, is—the liberty
>of another great nation— the nation cf
devils.—All blessings on him, who pro
duces the former ! throughout the uni
verse he lhall not find a more intrepid
defender than the writer of these few
lines, the author of to the
great nation, and to Rofterity, who, God
knows, of all earthly blessings, craves
none so earnestly as true liberty and e
quality. Ten thouflmd curses on him
who diffiifes the latter ; throughout the
universe he {hall not find a more intre
pid enemy than myfelf. Open thy eyes
great nation, and deliver us from this
LIBERTY OF HELL f
To conclude : Do not, great nation,
incur the contempt of"511 future ages ;
silence these crying adts of injustice, by
virtuous atonements. 3e aot the scourge
of nations, the tyrant of humanity, the
oppreflor of freemen, the bloodsucker of
Zurich. Be, what thou wouldft appear,
our friend, our benefa£tor, and deserve
to rule our hearts.
J. C. LAVATER, Reftor.
Zimcb, the ioth of May, 1700.
First Year of Helvetic Slavery.
All the letters which have pafedbetween
M. Talleyrand and the American Plenipo
tentiaries, the Ex-Bifltop's*vindication, the
debates in Congress, and the obfeivation*
made by the President of the United States,
may be cornprifed in the following laconic
demand and answer ;
France.—'• 11 faut beaucoup d'argent ?
America— " Come and take it."
____ r t mltm paper.
In an excellent address to the Legifla,
ture of Mar) laad, Gov. Henry delivers the
following olifervations on the present dan
gerous crisis. 1 hty render any comme«t
needless, and are superior to al ! praise. We
wish they were rmpefTed in indeliable cha
rafters on every heart ; the honor and in-"
dependence of this co.mtry w nld then be
secure, and we might laugh at the malice
of all our enemies, both internal and exter
nal.—
It is now obvious to all, that the-conduft
of the French nation would long before this
time have juftifkd an open and direftltate of
hostilities. — The love of peace hath hiiberto
re/trained the authorities of the union from
such a (late of things. How long it will
continue to do fe, is within our pro
vince to determine. The uncertainty ren
ders it prudent to be prepared for the word;
and nntwithftandirg tjie defence of the uni
on is wifely by the conifctutloij intruded to
the general government ; yet no one can de
ny the propriety and importance -at all timei
of a sincere and vigorotH cooperation.
k We are taught by the constitution to sets ■>
on the militia for our general defence. On
sudden emergencies -t is certainly our only
re. urce ; it is therefore at all times impor
tant, but especially now to place them on
the moil rei'pectable footing.
My duty far the last twelve months has
called me, is conjunction wit!i the council,
often to deliberate on this fubjeft ; it would
be criminal in this crisis of our public af
fairs to withhold from the legislature itfc de»
rangements and imbecility.
Ir. various parts of the state indeed afpi
rit of patri tifm has displayed- itfelf, and
the zeal and intelligence of the officers have
furjjounted the defeft* of the system : but
such temporary effefts are not to be relied
on. Ihe fafety of a community ought not
to depend upon the voluntary effufi.ms of a
few patriotic men. The law mult govern
and invigorate the whole ma& To answer
this important and necefTary purpose, it is
indifpenf;ibte that it be revised in all its parts
and ample powers given t„ produce ordei% $1
difciphne and obedi#nce-
All men are now fatuncd of the proprie«
ty of putting the coop a complete state
of defence ; and in cafe of aftu?l war, or t
mere expeflalion of it, it would be onbe- 1
coming the wif.loin of t c legiflatare to'truft
the peaceand iafety of the country on -the
prefi.it weak and fyllem—Mena
ced as we ere from abroad by a brave, intel
ligent and enterprising nation, this fobjea
is all important ; and in the deliberations of
legislature, all others ought to yield to
it,' as of inferior moment."
Attached to this fubjf6t, is the condition
of our arsenals. Their pnfftut Uate, and
the conduct < f the past legiflattires, would
induce a belief, that they rea|ly confidired
the!r.i;ivjf3 as exempt in all future limits fratn
the calamities of war.
Arms and ammunition are ind'fprnfabk' jin times ef profound peace, a certa i pro
portion of Colli Ate proper ; ii i» peculiarly
so now ; arid while it is poflible that our
altars, i>r ;viy portion of oui* social happi
ntfs, may irt ai>y degree depend on these
things, no rational man, it i« hoped, can
doubt wh it c ui fe to pursue.
molt ln-.ixmttted aclertioii of the lcgiflatare
(hotild be heftowed on these fubjefts, and a
supply of both fpecdily procured.
Expenditures an these articles are not loft,
they are of a durable niture ; and if from a
display of aoimated and united councils, t •-
gether with vigorous preparations for war,
we (hould fortunately escape the present de
flating scene which is laying wale the
faired portion of Europe, ftiU t wl " % .
uit'tul fniw****'"" 1 1 *"f will remain
a standing monument, how much the peace
and fafety of a country depend on a pre
pared condition of war.
It was early forefecn, that the principles
upon which our constitution was originally
fourded, and the spirit of the times, would
havea discomposing influence in the minds
of a certain species of property among us.
[What can be more dignified and impress
ive than the manner in which this enlight
ened Statesman foeaks if th; re'olntions of
the Hate of MaCachufctt-, refpefting the
dang -rous tendency of foreign it.9ueßce.and
the orcefiity >f altering the conititut'on of
the United States in that refpedl ?
No one, fjtys he, will ferioudy contend
that there ie a'iy physical virtue in the spit
of earth which firll gave us birth,. and yet
all will readily acknowledge, that without
the exereife of our realon, and, indsed, in
dependently of it, it produces a "fredomi
na'nt affedlian and preference in its
which no tim' - , nor scarcely any circum
stances, wilt eradicate ; and fronj -• nee
arifss the txclufion of foreigners from ihe
aTairs of nations to which they are not al
lied by their biith.
Th- 1 experience of an* own times, and
the hlftory of pa ! l ages, equally aflure u? of
th» propriety and truth of this pradlice.
That phil fop!.y, however flattering to
the pride of human nature, t which teaches
men to look upon thcmfelves as citizens of
the world, and who when they are a'ked
where their country lies, will point with
their fin: ers to the Heavens, is too loose
and univcrfal for the prtfent age, and will
forever endanger the firtneft ftruclure which
human ingenuity can deviie.
The country from which we derive our
origin, and indeed all the kingdoms of Eu
rope with which we are bell acquainted,
have, from-the mod remote antiquity, fil
tered this pafiion, It bas, in some degree,
contributed to their grandeur and security
It is therefore no wonder that the preju
dices of education should be put on its fide
and the mind eatly imprefled with its truth
and importance.
Seeing then how guarded mad nations
have been upon this fubjedl, and telling
the truth of tt by the fhott experience which
we ourselves have had, .we have fufficient
reason to be. fati&fied. that it is either tor,
late or too earlv »o fnpport such systems of
liberality. \ However exalted tl»e virtue or
dillmguilhed the talents of an individual
may be, and however worthy of public con
fidence. yet it is nevertheless true, that in
gereral it n unwrfe to trust the high con
cerns of a nation to men not born within
its limits
My own mind has long been fatiafi d on
this luhjift, and it appears salutary to carry
the MalTachufetts resolves into effedt.
[After reading fentinients so iult, and in
a stile so dignified and firm, it is with re
gret we add that he concludes with declining
a continuance in office. At this time, when
bawli g patriots are Jo common, and real
patriots so seldom to be found, his retire
ment into the tranquil l'cenes of private life,
though its comforts are due to his diftin- '
guilhed merit and long f-rvices, mull be re
gretted by every true American in every <
part of the Un.on.] Snow den. I
Ihe following is an Extra 3 from a publicatif" <
by Marks J. Biddle, Efq, ia the Weekly I
Advntifsr of Reading. :
By the impoll our i(overnment>ba6 been 1
supported, but the French have dellroyed ■
that revenue by taking our veflfels ; to re- '
mt-dy this it was pmpofed in Congress to '
permit our me>ch.mts to arm and protedl '
their vefiels at their own expence. Cplocel
Heifter not only -ippofed this but voted *
againil the building of the frigates, and t
every measure tending to prated our cqm t
wetce, and by that means increase the re
venue—and again!! every kind of tax offered t
to supply the failure of the impoll. —All g
this he acknowledges, but fays that it wa '
not hi« intention to oppose government but t
only to save expence and leep pejec. Now '
as it cannot be denied that if we expeft to h
he proteftcd in our lives and property we h
mull pay for it—that the civil and milita y a
lilt-pthe pensions due to invalids, and the
interest of our debt, mull be plid or (he go- t
vernment fall ? it follows that the operations v
of the government are to be Hopped, l , the iia- «
ral confequeuce of which is anarchy and civil f
war) our property is to be plundered, and c
qur citizens are-to be enslaved, beat and mur- '
dered, to keep peace And that to save ex- I
pence we are to fuffer the French to rob our e
c.ttzens of property which would have yield l
ed a revenue of fix ur seven million of dol c
law, and out farmers to be deprived of a *
market for their produce rather than to fuf- i
fcr our merchants to defend their property, 1
or expend a few thoufaßd dollars for the' c
piotection of our trade- We have repeated <1
ii.(lances of mij'ers fuffering their houses to f,
fall to pieces because they had not th; heart
to pay a few pound* for neceffiiry repairs, i
Col. Heifter fetms to have ailed in the fame t
*ay rcfpeflir.g our government. c
.Not a ilngie reason has been given by col. t
Jlicitcr f.iv thinking that a war with France }-
c:sn be averted by lubmiffion or by quarrel- b
h'ng with mir cm government, and with- v
holding fupplics—No reason rxills for such c
a fupptrlition, the ixamp'e of Holland, Vc- t
■ ' 1 '
n- I nice, Sw!»zo! ir,>3 m d al'i the republics en
ly llavcd Franc?, prove that nothi >sr
ur is to be expelled from the mercy ar jvjlice
)i. of France and that a£ls of frienrffhip and
fe fuismiffion only i vite ng rijffion alitl Insult.
jn Ihe fate of Switzerland is an awful warn.
jag to this country—th'.Swi'fs were a free J
id happy and brave people, they had behaved
re towards the French r-public with the great
a eft friendfhip, and had saved it from ruin—
they were able and willing to fupoort their
ft, government and maintain their independepce
a but thty had tHeir Gallatins and Bbjlers in
.. their coiincils, and when : be French threat- i
r, ened to attack them, the knaves preached <
e- up peace and tec mimy. and the fools and mi
ic fers were gulled j and to preserve fence and- i
five money they fuffcp*d themfclves to be fur- i
in prised by the French irt an afd llate ;
;e who robbed them #f all their property, mur- I
e- r'ered thousands of their citizens and enflav- (
ed the reft. , I
:j But the Colonel fays that he -wishes for
ly Peace and does not •wi/h the French to do -I
d mincer over us -What fignify his viijkts j >
it —-we do not pay him fix Dollars a day for \
tuifhing, that we can do ourselves, we pay e
him for thinking artd aSing for us, a«d as it I
t- appears by his own Vindication that he has a
>f not thought at all and has aßcd wrong, he i
ie ought not to represent us. He also fays f
d that h s Heart h not in fault—which is ve y a
if poflible, but is nothing to the purpose. If c
we are involved in War and ruined f
d flavrd by his bad Conduiil, it matters not t
t much Co us wheiher his errprs are of the t
:t hca<! or the he&<t, whatever consolation the
it reflituil* of his Intentions may give him. t
PHILADELPHIA, J
e . MONDAY EVENING; NOVEMBER 19. j,
—— h
I " Stet fort up 1 :!omtu.". v
f Our belief in the intell'g. nee of the ruin a
of the French " Army of Egyp I ,'' which
0 we advanced in the Gazette of Friday, and h
s which was founded on matttre 1 refledlion ; b
if upon the nature and difficulties of their at- U
1 tempt, and the uniform fate of former pro
h je£li in that quarter, has since been con
e pletely juftified by more recnt intelligence.
II The deftrudion of this marauding Ban
li dit ti, in whatever afpeft we view it, is one
of the most agreeable and heart-cheering / t
r event., that could have occutrecj. To fee
- those identical monflers, and that identical
, leader of them, who had for the bell part {,
if three years been occupied in plundering f t
, ai d murdering the inoffenfive Italians, re- Vl
duced at the foot of a contemptible enemy, a ,
- and left to the mercy of jufl such a set of n
ferocious, cruel and pitilefa robbers as |j
i themfclves, affords so ltriking a display of
the justice of divine retribution, as mull em- ■
s bolden the hearts and strengthen the cause P
of the faithful in all the parts of the Earth.
The boiu-Jlring has ere this revenged the
bloody, deeds of the mighty Hero of the u
Great Nation Hja mvrmi4er,9 lie fenttcr- C
ed oer he sands, fit food for ravens, crows hi
and buzzards. Sojhould Frenchmen be in
disposed of ; and if we could ensure to them yi
th- fame fate, I sincerely wilh they might tc
fend an armv to every region of the globe, di
The consequences of the two glorious n;
vents which we have jufl communicated,
have long ere this day fhaket) either leg of
the Fiench ColofTus. Fhe Turks have tc
risen to vengeance, and the firft result of w
their operations has b<eii the expulsion or va
extii pation of the Infidels from all their
Venetian co;,quells— from Zante, Corfu, at
Cephalonia,—from Malta, and probably m
even I orficS, on which the sublime Porte tr
has long fixed his eye. The fleet of Britain
hioMs undisputed empire from Gibraltar to B
the Dardanelles ; —Naples, railing her arm Ih
before, has now struck her vengeful blow ; all
the troubles in Ihe Holy See, in the Dutrhy
of Milan, in Genoa, in Piedmont and Savoy,
before formidable, have surmounted all ob
llacles and become paramount to the power th
' of the Freoci guards.' Encouraged by the in
■ Hrong co-operation of the king of Naples, lei
and the British fleet, a general l'tifurreiflion bi
1 has revenged the cause of God and man. dc
and every Frenchman in Italy has felt the lit
fliletto. Thus have the French nine times
been expelled from Italy. The tenth will
have proved the lall and fevered expulsion. ar
The French cruizers will now be every to
where chtfed from the Mediterranean, and ot
that cxtenlive mine of wealth, the Levant tu
trade, is once more secured to Britain. rn
Spain, long a dumb ass, crouching jinder tb
the buffets of Old England, and the more di
grievous usurpations of her fr endli allies, he
is impiti nt once more to enjoy th; pro- A
ted/on and friefidlhip of her old ally, and te
'o eltidii the revolutionizing traps laid for en
her by France, who daily prepares to help A
herfclf to a portipti of this decaying and or
alraofl defundl monarchy. tri
At the news of the immortal NdfonV".
triumph, Don PedrA Francisco de Anagon,
will get him up, mount his jack boots and Is
whiflcers, and hie to London, where he !wl
patches up peace with England, and of lib
oouife again draws hie Duiindanaou France, trc
1 he co-opeiation of Spain will not however
be of much worth as an adive ally : but the *
-vent will give new vigor and new means
to tnjrtand, in prosecuting her glorious lik
cau e, 1 e ledu&ion of the common enemy jrt
of the whole Earth,— now happily begiu- th,
mng to wear the Ambiance of feafibility. pil
Jt the cfteA were only t 0 save the treasures wl
oIT Spain frr.m the dissipating influence of
disinterested tepublicanifm, it would be fuf- Cc
qciently important.
H<re, let us not omit to enumerate the
.mmcnfe co„le C f of this viflory, to tlie dn
trade of the United States. Those hosts „ff
; P>«t« Which Issued from every port m we
the Mtdaerrancan, are at lead repressed ai d wt
probably annihilated, and of tourfe an a- ral
bundant field of entrrprif,- and source of rat
weaitl) is agam opened to the almoll ruined
commerce of America. If dillinguifhed C o
benefits entitle thofc conferring them to dif- ft r
/ *
;n- d tiVwu&i, the merchants of Amer-i
•ST ica, fli,>a!d celebrate * iabtlee in hoi-ir of I
'ice Admiral Ne'fo.i. For in the mighty blo<»
nd (truck by his arm, the commerce of the
It. w'loh world is ottce mure restored and -f
---•n. tablifhed on its anc!< i»t foundations. The
ee barbarous cod-s of Fiance fliall become as
ed obsolete as thry have re derei her own ma- <
it- r.ine, a'd the chand-ls of commerce (hall i
flow free to the enterprises of honelt induf
■ir try.
ce And here, tboqgh last yet not lead in im- J
in portance, Jet us turn our eyes inward Upon \
if. ourselves, and trace the probable confe
;d que' ces of these events upon America.
ti- In this We w, the firft thing; that strike the 1
id mind, ;r d it ought to strike t*>;ry mind j J
r- wiHi fores and effeft, is >hc reflection how
te great a load of reproach and ignominy we j 0
r- have escaped, through the wisdom and [>ru- t
1- d-nce of one man, who may with jo" ice be b
. ltyled (to copr an old Roman solecism) r
>r THE SECOND FOUNDER. OF THE
3 -HEPUBLIC. Here we may read as in a t 'j
" s j gl*fs. the features of that monstrous policy f(
>r which would have left us bleeding, plunder- g
y ed and enslaved, just at the time when the p
it firnmefsof administration, as was forefeet! l J
is and foretold, refylts in fecuritv and profper
e ity. The tide of events, holds up to u-. a
r s faithful mirror not merely of the wesknefs
y and folly, but of the deep depravity of jae- m
tf obit! couniels. and (hould operate as a faith- I
i- ful and constant monitor to all rulers, to B
>t turn a deaf ear to the Hyjena cries of sac- T
e tioa. _
ie Struck with the force of these immortal
truths, the people of America, should bow St
? with reverence before the altar of fl>at God, 1
who " them such a man," and white T
they bless the hour that gave h'»n to the L
world, imprjnt deep on their hearts those
maxims by which, while he saved them from
death, he laid the foundation of their lall
i"g renown. Tiiefe cOnsiderations fliould
heap- ten-fold .!• testation on those villaius,
who. abandoned to all ftmorfci stilt curse
n at the fortune of the country and the au
i thor of it: They have, palled through the
1 horn gate of the lioman Miio, and it should
ri !b - Ihut after them. Future villains ftiould
. thus be taught that . I to
F.' ili» descensus. Averni ;
SeJ re> ocarc gradum, hie labor
.Hoc opus eft, P'
as
The popular toast of the day, is,
Buonaparltf to the Crocodiles, and Dejlruc- f 0 ;
I lion to the Infernal Republic. Ui
j. . ~
The audacity of the ferocious English tars ; to
1 has leng been a favorite theme of reproba- \..
> lion to the French re üblicans. But it tie- V'
verthelefs continually increases. Witness
» admiral Nelson, who has just had the unpa th
ralleledaudacity to seize on a whole Repub- fla
1 lican armada, after creating a new Red Sea. : L(
' na
Ambubaiarum collegia, f e '
; Pharmacopolae, Meadici, mini®, balatrones, I
, Hocgenus omne, mceftum ac follicitum eft. vu
It is laughable to fee the Jacobins writhe (h
: under the torments with which the late foi
Glorious News, has filled their malicious co
> hearts. One of these afTaffins looks at you 5")
: in common times, as if he longed to cut he
i your throat, but now their afpeft is made w !
ten times more cannibalic than ever, by the ?
decreased profpedl of glutting their fangui- fa,
i nary appetites. wt
' _ ■ mi
The ridiculous Democrats are now at
■ tempting to diminish that force in di(after,
which while it fed them with hopes of ra« w "
' vage, they continually exaggerated. „
xhe force of the Toulon fleet was rated w i
i at twenty-five ships of the line, besides a !y
multitude of frigates, and three hundred tic
' tranfportn. we
Now that this force composes part of the ' n .
British navy, it has fallen away to twelve
Ihipß, while the opposite fleet is proportion.
ally enct eased. Heu ! tempora muianlur ! ter
\T fr W '
Mewpafage to the Red Sea. ~
The French have long been extolled by
their admirers for thtir quickness at conceiv
ing and executing a projeft. But the ce- 1
lenty with which their fleet has just passed, th l
by a new route, to the Red Sea, will fel. ino
dom hnd a parallel in the annals even of Gal- t-o
In. agihty. Ed
Ne
Wliile we dwell on the tyranny, rapaci'y '°
and perfidy of ourfanguinary foe, we aie Yo
too apt to lose fight of the gloomy fad, that
our own con,.try fofters in its bosom multi- Fc!
tudes of wretches animated by the fame infa
mous principles -and a&uated by that fame J
thirit for bioo(f*[xi plunder, which has re
duced Frar.c« to a va)l human (] an hter .-
house. The hordes of U- ited Iriihmen in
mer, ca, are alone fufficient for a moll cx
tenfive scene of ruin, and little doubt can be
entertained that they are preparing for it. '
Americans (hould think often of these things, U
or these villains may'one day wrest the
from their hands ere they are aware,
" LtBDRTY
Is a fine founding word ; but most of those the
who use it, mean nothitig more by it than a
hbrrty to oppre's ofhe.-e, themselves uncon- the
trouled by any superior authority."
» J
government. J aw
* The chief bufinels of a Government is »«
like that of a N'urfe, to hinder those .who sam
are under its care from doing mifchief to at '
ihemfelves ; of which they are in perpetual
pursuit, angry with those
who endeavour to prevent them." *
offil
Compliment per force, to the gallant Tars
of America. aiw
A member of the Council of Five' Hun
died in public conversation with a general
officer, observed, "We fliall fliew to the
world, general, the contempt with which
we behold every tff«rt of the undisciplined
rabble of America, by an immediate decla
ration of war." - 1 I
No doubt, replied the general, you are
corred, in any domparative view of the
strength of the armies of the two nations. r
er- | But if this is to be a war of speculation, on-/]
of | Iv, and nothing is to be gained by going to
»» meet the mem v,-but honor and laurels, of,
he which we have already a plentiful Itock, will ,
ff- it not be bed to hum: It the British marine I
'he- before we force 40 or 50,000 Tars as feroci
as ous as those of England, to arm a'gainft us,
la 011 an element where we have heretofore cut
all n;> figart in competition with the English
jf- alone.
The answer produced a shrug and a naon
m- key-like dare, fufficiently fignificant totiiofe
011 who underfland French,
re- _
:a. The foilifh popul?re, who are ever the firft
he 'nftrurreats irfoited ta by defijnint; villain> in
! the work of <!e/!ri:ilion, have l>aen ia fffry in
>V* I lncc ' 10a trmpsrfitrtftg therrb'd pilf.
I pnfes, by having ideas instilled iritoth»ir mindc,
,ve j of the enviable lltKatioii of those set in authnri
u- ty over them, which, as their deceivers set firth,
be banilhes in a fliort time from their minds, all
si) remembrance of their former state, and renders
£ them tbe natural enemies of the poor <nd hum
a hlemafs. Hence, ihtry are led to conclude, that,
they are promoting most direflly their own in
-y terefts, when engaged in pulling do*n ihefe
r " g reat ntenznd demolishing thiir fvftems—Thus
!ie proving by their condufl the absurdity and yil
;n lamy of the principles on which they ac&. '
a In a rage for new coiiquefts, LEPAt'X* feiz'd
f. ,„ ;I ? v ' i P> 5
\Tiuaking a blot ou the Chart for a Gap :
c ' Ha, ha I cry'd this Wizard, to admiralßrueys
k- 1 find here a pas, through this Iftthnins, by Suez;
f„ By which, with our fleet, you flull fail the Red ■
c- Sei ' r
To plunder all India and Asia for me. ,
. Brueys fail'd, —an 1 he blundered each Inlet ,
3l about ;
w Still the way he went in, he was gk.l to get out;
1, '1 ill embittered by long difcppoimnTe; t, he swore !
| e To find a Red Sea or to fin*L France no more,
ie Left this oath (hould be vain, or brave Ncf/bnforgot,
Ot Neptune ohferve the Decree :
That French Blood <hould run a Rtl Sea on the
™ spot f
t- And Nelson ride fafe on each Sea.
d
3, * Prefid«nt of th« French IjSreflory, at the *
t time the l'ouion expedi.ion was p!a:>n.d. c
'• T ~
ie Logan.
j THF. fa;sf can be well attested (and if necef
j fary, w;ll be) that, for about fix weeks previous
jto Logan's departure for France, Jtfferfon re
gularly fpeot two days in the week with him.—
Logan is not a man of such talents, of such po
pularity, or in any wiy of Cii h confequtnce,
as heretofore to have attrailed the particular at
tention ot Jtfferfo*, or of any of the children
_of Sedition. Such 1 coalition of knavery and n
■- folly would at any time have excited curiosity :
Un ler prefsnt circumftanccs it would not be
j aftonifliing if more than fufpicim ftiould attach
.j 1 to the paaties.
r . ! The friends of Jefferfon —the enemies of the ~
United States—the wretches that (he harbor= un
jj" der the denomination of democrats, affeA to
8 laugh at the idea of an embafly from them to
1 the French. But if we will only recoiled the
1- ' flats of th« public mind at the time at which
r. i 1-oga'n's infamous mifiion commenced—indig
nant at the treatment of our envoys by the di
1 re&ory and repelling with one voice the degrad bi
ing propositions made to us through th' fe b
vuys, measures evidently adopted without their
peceffary and usual information from this fide
e the water : —lf we reflect that thsre was an ab
e, solute nccefiity that some steps Iheuld be taken to
s counts raifl the effeifls of the unadnj fed proceed .
i jngs of the Great Nation, unless their partizans
[ here meant to relinquiih all the profpe&s of their _
wicked and inordinite ambition : if we add the
acknowledgment o'f Judge McKean, that fliort
ly previous to Logan's depaiturehe gave him
>" lome fort of certificate (such, I suppose, as >
when Negro r s and United Iri/hmen were not per ;
mitted to travel the country without examina- i
. tion, would have heen ealled a Pass) which,
( though not in the form of a letter of Credence, v ,
was to have some xubere the Chief JuJlice a ,
and his political Jentiments <-Jjtre better knmun ai
■ than tbe infignificar.t dollar ; and if we combine pl
1 with a!l these the nuaieroub fafls which are dai-
J ly thrusting themselves upon our unwilling 110- vll
J tice,—evidences of Sedition and of Treason,
we (hall not.be so flo-.v as we unfortunately, are, f,i
e in believing that a system is organized and car- |„
r ying rapidly into txecutinn, to subvert the free t )
and happy government which we noyv enjoy, q
and to plat e in power, by force, thi fe charac- g,
ters which ihe voluntary fuffrages of honest men
will eternally exclt'de. I
' —' - 01
Notice is hereby Given, 1)1
I 'HA r application will b: made aj the Trea.
X fury ©f the United Sratrs", for the renewal of
• the following cerj-ificat-s of iFuuded Debt, stand
- ing in the name ot Robert Whitwofth', of Chellea, w '
Lonion, thetaid Certificates having been forward- cc
ed by the (hip Ellice, Hatvcy, from' London for
New-York, captured by the French, and fu»pofcd A
to be loi. "
' No-11437, 6 Per Cent Stock, dated New
: York, 18th April, 1796, f®r Dollars. 1481,47. _
t No. Bl7r, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
. February »7, 1797, for dollars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK. '
november r8 d6w O
60,000 lbs. Prime Goftee,
Deliverable in Baltimore,
FOR SADE BY
Isaac Hazlehurft: & Son. J
"ov. rg djt *
l Bank of the United States w
November j9, 1778. an
NOTICE,
rHE STOCKHOLDERS of the Bank of the $
Unit ed States ire informed, that according to '
the Statue oflncorporaticn,a General Election lor
fwtnty-fiwt Directors will he held at the Bank as
the United States, in the City of Philadelphia, on
Monday, the 7th of January next, at 10 o'clock in
the forenoon.
And pursuant to thy eleventh fe&ion of the bye
laws, the Stockholders of the laid Bank are also
notified to afl'emble in general meeting, at the
fame place, on Toefday, the Bth of January next,
at 6 o'clock ia ihe evemrg.
G. Simpson, Cashier. E d
Second Fundamental Article. P u
Net more than three fourths of in _
office, exclusive of the President, fliall be eligible
lor the next ensuing year, hut the Diredorjwk*
(hall be Prefidentat t!ie tiu«: of an eltdioa, may
always be re-eleiled.
November 16 m tE
rontsjLD,
Aa elrgatit and commodious HousKy
In Cbefnut-flrtrt, nex: door it the Bank Ki
or Nor th Amf hica. co
THE lot is thirty ty one hundredand seventy an
eight. The Houfi: has Wen thoroughly pi
repaired within a tew mouths.— to ilie fy
Printer. . jh,
nev 19 f j
f V ' . v , , . >
. 4 KI P O R T E D,
From Hamhurirli, Bremen, ai.d
?» I . AS " F " K 'Vtf aY w WIWAUIItI,
f»« An assortment of German Linerv
'". e C a .•/ J/»T IN a 9$
,c, ~ Tickkubuigs
us, Ofaaburgs
:ut WiTceliucn , .
jjlj Checks ahi frriptu
BiulefeM linen
Brown filcfias
n " fcUefia InhM
>fe Siamoij, &cs &c,
150 Boxes of Claret
. j Boxes of hollow ghifs ware
rlt It boxes of Russia bri n lcs ,
"? ALSO ON HjINB, J
£, * Box of Irish Linens.
| c IT"runk (ilk goods
,j' I Box of Gingham,
I), And a complete djfortn-.ent of
Englifh Buttons. /
u- Erich las Lewis 801/mari,
at No. 100, Spruce (Ireet.
1- noTen .be/1 9 to tot
fe j , • .
'd 1 ,
ihip Broker's Office,
And Commiffton Store,
1 No-.I 9, Sovth FRONT SrttFFT,
:d Next door to she Cufloia Houft.
HE Subscriber, encouraged by the advice of
A his triends, offers his service to the public
35 a Ship anH Inlurance Broker. -He prov
es to buy and fell vrficls and everv thing relat
'c ing llieieto aflift maftcrs of veflels and others
in entering and clearing at the Custom-House,
procuring and dipping freight, fettling Infur
-1 nnce ar.d all other rrvercantile accounts, and 1
have on hand the peceflary Blanks and StamD'.-
Papers in foreign languages translated, and in
formation given in geiicnl mercantile ntftr*.
From a kno* ledge gained by long experienc*
, of eVcr >' branch of Usi;efs he hopes to be ufs
fm to tbole whe pleafc to favor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERT.
November rc> j
r . FO pT portsml;u th, 1
8 Nf w .Hi>.MFSHIK F,
" ,^'le Schooner
Captain Gunnison,
' LYING at Chefnut flrcet wharf—will fail on
Friday next. For fr.-ight or pa<T ge, having ex
j cellcut accommodotinus, apply at Mr. W c , t't
store, on said wharf, or to th- mailer »n board.
Forfale on board said febsonrr,
? 30 bbls. New-England Cyder.
tioveniber :8 Vo^t
lOR i.O
> To return early in tie Spring,
; A MY A B L E,
" JSy&iwttaL D - C. Tillinghast, Matter.
Is sxpeded ro depart about th si "th of Decem
ber. Far freight or passage apf.ly to the tnafter on
board, or to
r JEREMIAH WARDER,
e N«. 12, North i'hird Street;
WHN HAS ON .HAND,
D Bby 10 Window Glass,
s And a quantity of Paper Maker's Raga.
r november 19 00 jc
- For Sale,
~ THE SHIP
1 fWm LENNOX,
'ying« Penrofe's wharf
: I)etw et 11 South & Almond flreets.
' Thil VefTel has only made two Whaling
' voyages, was originally (beathed, and linceher
f arrival in this port has been completely caulked
2 and (heathed anew, new Masts have also been
; put into her, and her ripgmg completely over
" hauled, of course her Hull and Uigging are in
perfafl order —and it is presumed from her hav
> ing been employed in the '.Vhaling bufiriefs and
> her timbers compfetely filled with oil, she will
' be as dufabls as.any veiTel. An inventory of
; the ship and her materials may be seen at the
1 Coffee-Houfe, or at the h'oufe of the Subscriber,
South-east corner of Arch-street and Sixth-street.
1 If the above veflel is not fold at private Sale
immediately, she will be exposed to Public Sale ,
" on Wednefdzy evening the 21ft instant at seven
o'clock, at the City Tavern in Second-ftrcet.
The Subscriber has also for fa/e,
f A Cargo of excellent Whale Oil
In casks proper lor exportation, being fu'l bound
i with Iron Hoops, which is an advantage not
common in Cargoes of Oil at this market.
ALSO,
A small quantity of Whale Bone.
» JOSEPH BALL.
" ov '9 d3t_
To be Sold,
• BYPUB LIC VENDUE,
On Friday next, the 23d instant, at Six
o'c"ck in the eveninii, at the Merchant's
Coffee Hotife in Second street, agreeably
to ir.Ye.itory,
£-\ THE BRIG
ABIGAIL,
As she now lies at Mr. WeS'j
Wharf—Burtl en abont 1400 barrels.
1 he.conditions will bematle known at the time
and place of lale.
November 19 jtmw&f
Shoe Thread, spun by the Poor.
A (QUANTITY OF EXCELLENT
SHOE THREAD,
For foir, by
Newberry Smith, Af0.56 North 2dflrett%
ani Ifa.c F. Hopper, No. 39 Pineflreet.
THL benevolent.by purchafmg
of tht above Thread will promote the eroea
vorsof a number of Ptrfor.s, «ho have collect
ed a small fund which is appropriated to the
purpose of finding employ for the P®or.
uih mo. 19th 1 •
TO BE RENTED
UNTIL NEXT STRING,
And pojfej/ion deli vered in; mediately.
A HANDSOME and ccmmodious three
flory HOUSE, in Walnut-flrcet near
Third-flreet, No. 58.
it has two rooms on a floor, with a ftair-wkv,
Kiichen and Wa!b-ho:.fe back, together with a
, convenient yard opening upo>i Pe2r-f)rrei %
and is wel; calculated to accommodate either a
piivate family, or boarders. Tht terms *re ea
iy and will be maoe known upon application to
. the Calhierof the Bark of Petuifjhir.u.
j hoy 19 {Samuel Potter, William Page and
Thomas Prite, w
No. ji. Chesnut STRfer, ol
Are now oft ning a very extensive ffortmenl of
D RT GOODS, o:
Suitable to the present season. t j
Which they have just received per &
Ships Factor, boyne, Otfego & Independence,
(via Ne<w York) fretn LONDON,
Alio, fit (hips William Penn & Amiable from
Lcndon, and Blips Sally aed Thomas lioin
ItiTKirooi.,
Which they will fell on very low terms for I
tajh or approved notes, ■»»». n
Common and fupcrfine 7.8 fancy and chine cal
cloths litoes
Plain & fancy coatings 7 8 common and chintz j,
Plain and firiped cafß- furnitures
mere , A very large quantity of _
Swanfdowns clutztr
Rose and d'.iffill blanVettfFurplc and chintz ftawls ,
Red and yellow flannels il.insn and lawn pocket J
Fine Welch flannels I 1 andkerrhiefs
Carpets and carpeting Camels' hair Ciavrls j
Tcannctts St tabby cord>-av. ry large affortmentof
Velveuens velverctts ritbonds
Thickletts Britifhplain checked ,ftri-
Callisiiancoes, duranti & pedand tamhour'd muf
jean, iins of all descriptions
Silk, cbtton, and wc.rfted ,olored bordered shawls, 1,
hose a great variety
Cotton,callicoe, <Sc rwift 5-4 a.-d 6-4 conjeverams
c hi tjjs an J bett.llees
liihutics India bookie jaconet muf
3 4 at! o*7-8 dowlafs lins
I>am.ij table linen Laces and edgings 1
4-4 and 6- 4 faceting* Black and patent lace
I ifh line s Lace vtils 'and figured .-
cloak^j
Bsndannots Pulongs and fattim 1
A very larjje Quantity of Persians and fcrfansts t.
Silk modes h
Ajjd a variety of other articles. <;
Nov ,•? tu.thfa.im „
Smith & Rodman,
No. 4*, Sorith Front street.
Havejujt nteived per the William Penh, arHt K
Jaue,from Lckdon, Dianaa«</ Thoitia»
from Lirsitrooi, atod Kingston,
from Huli, • t
A LARGS, tt GETSIERAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS, 1
AMONG WHICH ARZ
fiaiti, twi'l'd andftriped Crapes 1
Coatings Plain&ftriprd tVildbsret
>'ine white and red Wtlfli Worded, Yarn Cotton f
Fliunels H° ,e (l
»o. yellow artdfcarlet do. Men and Boys Woollen
Superfine and lew priced , -n. r.
, /, . , . 7-Bbleach'd Irilh Dow-
JJ, fi-4. 7*4. clothsoi ' lj{ .
all coiori brown Irish Linen
Plains and Halfthicks * g white and brown 1.- r
Forest and Hunter Cloths » )(h sheeti [
Green ami Red Drapery FUjffn & Tow OzM .
Baize burgh in bales
Do. 5-4, 6-4, and 7-4, do Dmglieda & Irilh Silefias
Red & green B ickingdo. 7 _B and yard-wide Irilh _
Swanfdownsy Toilanetts Linens
Rose, Point >nd DuffilljPrimed Callicoes&Chin- r
Blankets | izes
Superfine London Caffi- Primed Linen and bar- .
meresof theneweftand' der'd Handkerchiefs ■
molt falhionable colors .Cotton* C allicoe Checks
Low priced Yorkshire do.j Thre » d E °g in R ® Lae « r
TUm and ttriped Calli- s Beaver Glove.
r , Pins" la fmal] cases P
® 'Holland Tapes 3Bobbin*
Joan &DuranU i ckfets Cordu -
P.attinettß & bhahoons | Hunt i„g and fancy Cords
Nurwich Caniblets, ' or .Velvets and Velveiteens
Clocks jßlack and olive Cotton-
Bonibazeits and Black) ade ,
v
Wiih a variety of other Articles qn hand, fo r \
faleonthemoft reafollable terms for calh c
or the usual credit.
Nov 6 tn,th&fa,tf
John J. Parry,
CLOCK fs 5 WATCHMAKER,
fi_ : S again opened at bit usual Stand, No- 38,
So:0b Secondftreet—-where he has for Sale,
A VARIETY OP
Excellent Gold £s* Silver Watches,
AND A TEW i
Eight Day Cclocks,
Vt'kich will be warranted to give fatisfkßion.
An assortment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
Mi kinds of Clock and Watch work done with
particular attention as heretofore.
Sjr An Appren'ice wanted.
November l« rn.lviSff.3w*
Imported
,n the brig Eliza, capt. Peterfon,from
LEGHORNy
A SMALL QUANTITY OF THE AR
TK» S,
Bologna crape
Cam bricks aflorted
Silk {lockings - ]
•Fans
a few fancy ribbons
Cotton blankets &c. &c. manufactured at
Lucca
Pots and flicks of pomatum
Wash-balls, See.
a few jars Gorgona anchovies
a small aflortiuent of Drugs, &c.
And. in the Louisa, capt. Kcan,from
Bordeaux,
£0 cafss, containing % dozen each,
Old Irish Claret, ,
of a superior quality, I
40 dozen old Safuturne Wine, 1
of a superior quality.
FOR SALE BT
James Latimer, jr.
noT. 10 eodiw
By Fishbourn Wharton,
at No. i»8 South Fourtb-flreet.
China Ware,
Nanlceens
Teas
Boglipores
Lutestrings, to*
Silk Shawls.
nov i.t
• ALL PERSONS,
(TiWIVG demands against the Estate of
ti Hsnrv ScHAFtr.R, deceased, late of the
City of Philadelpliia, Malfter and Shopkeeper
-e requelled to jurni.li their accounts properly
iihenticatcd and all persons indebted to said
tf.iaie i r e desired to makefpeedy payment to
CASPAR IV. > ujfftiniftrators
FREDERICK GAUL, j a *"""'J' ra ' ars
litli uo. ij ' *«w 3 w
(Jniierjity of Pennfyivaniu, i
Nov. 13, 179'-
The Medical Leftures, in the Umverfity, ,
will nSuaUy commence on Monday, the 26th |
of this moiuhv §ll6 v
The OFFICE
\
of the Board of Commiflioners, under c
the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity,
See. with Great Britain, is returned to
No. 129 Mulberry street. 1;
1 Nov. 12. _ [
*„* The PubHc are informed that the a
r Alderman's Gojirt of this City, will re
new thefr fittings; on Thurfilty next the
15th of November inft. at test o'clock
1 in the forenoon at the City-Hall as usual. ;
,£ "° v 9 (
Horses to Winter. 1
'• TTORSES taken in to Winter at Peel Hall
:t jLA Farm, two miles from the City on the
Wiffahickon road.The terms nuy be known at
, No n, North Third-ltreet.
' nov ii end iot
The Custom House is re
movedfrom Chester to the City, and
s, is again opened at the usual place.
Novemb«r3 §
University of Pennfyliania.
f- Nov 8, 1798.
THE different Schools will be opened on
Thurfdaythe 15th instant. By order,
Wm. ROGERS, Sec'y.
d Mrs. SCOTT
informs her Friends in the City, and likewi/e
those who Jlill remain in the Country, that she
has returned home with her Family, to No. I,
Carter's Alley.
Ny; 10 eo.^t.
WANTED,
A MIDDLE AGED WOMAN, <
WH_O nnderftpnds Cooking, and Housework
y generally. Enquire at fJo. 109, Walnut street.
* november It • eo6t i
" BALLASI.
A QUANTITY to bedifpofed of, if applied for
immediately, on board the Ship Louisa, lying
; Ma. HUMPHREY'S Ship Yard,
november 10 $
WANTED, j
A PAIR VB CARRIAGE HORSES,
'' (BLACK would be preferred.) Apply at No.
" 124, Spruce street, between Third and Fourth
ftratts. /
" november n jt
- TO RENT,
A convenient HOUSE, about
- twenty feet front with back buildings—corner of
Third and Cherry streets. Enquire of ,
J. HALLOWELL,
no. 50, Walnut-street. 1
" nov, 10, ' edrw
' NO rICE. '
k QAMUEL RICHARDET, informs the Gentle- '
O ma* Subscribers, that the EXCHANGE
is opened for their recep.ion ; and the CITY
T A V E R N, for Gentlemen and Travellers
t Last Spring added an addition of twelve Bed '
Chambers to the fide building, which makes it 1
perfeisll> convenient.
„ november 6 taw
' A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand, understands
accounts andean be well recommended, (
wants a Situation as Clerk or Afiiftant in a '
r Wholesale Store, or Couuting-houfe. Appli
cation t* Le made at this Office. I
no* 14
Printing Work,
Of Every Kind\
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST.
NOTICE,
! » At the Office of the Gazette of the
United States,
Ofi. IJ. dtf. 1
JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now landing at SouthJlreet wharf,
FOR SXLE BT
t. PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at 9tores on the Wharf,
who also arreßS FOIR sale,
S ' BRANDY, id and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. flee.
Nev. 1. dtf
JUST ARRIVED,
From Bourdenux,
And for Sale by the Subftriber,
60 Boxes Freffa Raisins
n 118 doeen Ladies long Glove*
116 ditto ditto jhort ditto
ALSO,
An Invoice of fine Cambrick
and Black Lace.
WILLIAM LYNCH.
No 8. Penn-ftreet )
novtmber to. J diot
at FOR SALE,
AT THIS .OFFICE,
A FEW Copies of an interesting Work, in
French, entitled a History of
Th« Admmiftration of the French
m Finances, i
DURING THE YEAR 1796.
Also, An Hiftorii al and Political View of the
Administration of the French Republic, during
ibe year 1797, —sf the stufes which produc-
«d the
' Resolution of the 4tb September —
And of the results of that Revolution,
r. PRICE I nOLLAR EACH.
These two political trails, -nre from the pen
of the celebrated d'lvernois.and contain athou
fand ii'lerefting disclosures of the folly, venality
and profligacy of the different Ul'urpers who
bave reigned in France duriDg the latter stages
of tht? horrible Revolution How pending in that
miserable and depraved country.
Noy. 3 . $
To be Let,
AND POSSESSION GIVEN
ON TBI I4TH AritlL Hlxr,
THE CITY TAVERN,
Now in the poflclfi.m of Samuel Richardet.
r Apply at this Office.
novamber 13 §
>er . REMOVAL.
rjr THE SUBSCRIBERS have removed their Office
from the corntr of Hleveiith Street, to their former
0 Counting House, N«». 21, Penn Street.
rs Millings £5? Francis.
November j 5
1 Dobbin &. RoßEJifs,
TATLORS, F ,
RESPECTFULLY inform theirCuftomers, and
the Fubiie in gcntral, that they have rcnio
ved from No'. 114, Cbefaut Street, to
No. 30, South Foiirth Street} . (
, Where orders in their line will be thanklully re- I co
ceived and diligently attended to. ! < DV ,
, novemher 1} mW&f.'.ff j n
ALL PERSONS having anj legal demands a- j
gainst the eUate of IVitliam Pirkins, deceufsd,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavtrn keeper, are
requested to furnith thtir accounts properly au
thenticated, and all persons indelxed to fai<l estate
J are r.'qaefted to make payment to the fubfenbar in , .
Philadelphia. . '
LEVI HOLLIKGSWORTH Adminr.
: Oilobcr 31ft, 1798. re
Dfci r«I(fTbF PENNSYLVANIA, iO Wll 1
BF, IT REMEMBERED, J
• THAT on the twelfth day ! w
- ofAugiift,in the twenty-third year of f 0:
A the Independence of the United States of ( 0
j America. Benjamin Smith Barton, of the said dii
j triil, hath deposited in this office the title of a f( j
t book the right whereof he claims as author in the
words following to wit : ot ,
"New Views of the Origin of the Tribes atid
. « Hations of America—By '.'enjamia Smith. Bar-
M ton, M.D.Correspondent Membcrof theSocie
, " ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, '*. l ember of
" the American Philosophical Socie'y, Fellow of
« the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
" Boston, Correfpondidg Member of the Mafia
" chufett* Historical Society, and Profeffcr ot __
" Materia Medica, Natural Hiflorv and Botany
" in the UniverHty ai Pennsylvania."
1 In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the
United States, intitled "An aA for the encourage- I
ment of learning by securing the copies of maps, '
charts,and books, to the authofs and proprietor, |
of such copies during the times ther»in mentioned.'s
■ e SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Dift. of Pen»'
e Novernber 1, 1798b .
> Bank of Pennsylvania, na
September jd, 1798.
WHEREAS the Honle at present occupied ° h
by the Bank of Pennlylvania was enter-
ed on the night of thefirft inllant, by some vil- *'
k lains, who robbed the inftihition of sundry
Bank Notes, amonglt which were the follow-
ing post notes of the Bank of New-York, vie.
No iooi, dated »jd of August, 1798, Dolls j
iflued in favor of Seabring & (
' Van Wyck, for 396 it
° No 1003, dated ijth of August, 1798,
ifKied in favor of Montgoin- \
1 ery and Newbold fcrr 1150
No 1006, 27th do. do. do. scoo
1007, do. do. do. do. 2000
'• 1008, . do. do. do. do. 2000
loio, *Bth do. do. do. 2000
ion, do. do. do. do. 2000
K>l2, 30th do. do. do. ij'OO
1013, do. do. do. do. 1000
Also sundry post notes of the Bank of Pens- .
' fylvania, datfd 33d July 1797, iflued in favor 0
of Geerge Hughe*, for one thousand dollars "
each, and sundry post notes of kid Bank, da- J 1
ted 15th of Jbly, 1797, iflwed in favor of Geo.
Hughes, for five hundred dollars each and in
dorfed by him. The public are hereby caution- a ' I '
ed against receiving the said notesy and a re- P'
l ward of TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS is P r
C hereby offered f»r the discovery and coavi&ion
of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
d ed in the said robbery, in addition to the reward _
it offered by the Coventor of the Commorrwealih
in his Proclamation of this day.
By order of the Board, A
JONATHAN SMITH, eafhier.
1 1 i ... .
The Subscribers
j Are now Landing—For Sale, Fi
a ' St. Croix Rum—Mutcovado Sugar at
i- Red Port Wine, St
In pipes, hogtheads and quarter Calks. ' n
Two thousand bushels of Salt, t \
Eighteen IroaSix pounders 1 proved at Woolwich.
Philips, Crammd, & Co.
November 3 dtot
Madras ancl Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS, T
Searfeukers and Carradairies,
of the ne we ft and mod approved patterns,entitled
- to-the drawback, just received,
ANB FOR SALE BY "
r , Alex. J. Miller tf Co. £
No. 64, South Front street. ,
FOR SALE, L
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity "
Benjamin Monteith Mailer, from Laguira,
eeNSUTiN® or
94 j Fenegas of Cocoa
4009 lb. of Flora Indigo
210 Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins
By Witlings Francis. c
No. Elevanth-flreet. _
_july 2: dtf_
Mails for South-Carolina & Georgia*
PACKETS are now provided for carrying the j.
Public mails by wajer between Philadelphia
and Charleston. They will leave Philadelphia
on Friday's. The post by land will feeccntinu
ed twice a week until an experiment is made in
regard to the expedition and regularity of the
packets. If any person ctiufes to have their
n letters sent by land only, they will please to
write the word Land upon the letters : other
wise they will be sent by that conveyance which c
il will firft start the letters «re left in the t |
pofl-effice. c
Joseph Haberjham,
e Pofl-Majler Gemerl. 0
g Philadelphia, Augujl \ §
TEN DOLLARS REWARD? t!
DESERTED last nigl«, a second time, from
the Marine Camp, David Litter, a fifer.
'• He had when he went away, a plain Llue jacket and x
veft,light-blueoveralls, a round hat,which l«id been
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off "
:0 in his fit ft defertibn, and a pair of n,ew flioes. he is
a- a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, faiidy hair Ii
ty fallow complexion, and a nitch in his upper lip
lo His back is fttll fore from a flogging he got a few
es days ago. He may bo difcovcred by his fifeing, C
at as he pUjs extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the. X
OiStober 17. Marine Corps. f
- 1_ I
ALL PERSON?,
HAVING claims the Estate of
SUSANNAH LOCKTER, deceased, are
requested to present their rtfpe&ive accounts to !
NATHAN A. SMITH,-) . a .
:t ' o* f / a "V J
JOHN DORSET, j tutors.
A LEASE OF THE HOUSE 1
lce Lately occupied by Sufunnab Lockyer, together
with THE STOCK OF GOODS,
Are to be disposed of Time will be given for
the latter on un-cxceptivnable security.
nov 9 3»w6w
1
Forty Dollars Reward*
DESERTED,
, From a Detachment of Men under my com- ,
i mand, at Camp Wejl Schuylkill, viz.
O (Sober 19.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, $ c
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and*
{ complexion, bora in Helland, no Trade, (peak*
broken Er.glilh«d very ulkitive, hat a dimple
-, in hit chin. I -
»■ < November 6. John Murphy, 27 years of
i ' age, S feet 7 4 inches In height, grey eyes, dark
re ; hair and eomplexion, born in Ireland, city of
J * Dub.in, by trade a Hozier.
u Jacob Ideu, 34 years of age, j feet 6 inches
" high, grey eyes, sandy hair, frefh .complexion,
born in New-England, state of Conne<£licut, a
repeated deferteit, by trade a Blacklrnith. _
November i. WAliam' Collins, '3O yeai s of
' *g e > J feeri incites high. Tandy hair, I'rtlh com-; r
pTexion, grey eyes, born 111 Ireland, county of
) r Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for j
Df some time ibout Philadelphia, he it very fond
u / to'heir himfelf Sing.
'* All the above deserters are very much addifl-
a ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro n
,e perty if 111 the • power, are aftificijlly marked
, on their backs, had on, when they* went away,
their regimental clothing. Whosoever appre- !y
r " bends said deserters, (hall receive forty dollars
reward, or tea dollars for ea<?h, with all reafoo
„j- able expences, by applying to raeas »bi>ve, »
of EDWARD MILLER, captain
a . id regiment of Infantry commanding.
of n"vi3_ f..
>y A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC. -
TOHN A. SHAEFFER, wf Philadelphia, who has
J for 3 few year* past been iu the fouihern States, j
l( .' has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex- e
.j 1 change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of a
a < State, and myfelf.and by that means his deluded j.
a number of persons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibitiofrof letters and papers with the
names affixed of divers public chara&eis and repu- _
table merchants highly recommendatory of said
.j Shaeffer ;to one of tbefe papers I find my name
r _ fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; these are
, villainous forgeries! To prevent further imposition,
. | 1 have to request the printers of Newfp3pers in the
• United States to pablilh this far the benefit of their f
fell»w«cirizem. SAMUEL MEREDITH, 11
x ' Triafvrcrfftbt UitiltdSlaiti
Tration, Nttu - Jtrfiy, \ <3
October 24, X 798. )
This Day Publijhed,
And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No.
119 Chafnut-ftreet,
(Price 1-Btb tf a Dollar,) ,
AN ORATION, <
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At iherequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town ef
BOSTON* in commemoration of the knni- }
verfary of American lndependeuce.
By JostAH writer.
8 . " The inroads upon oar public liberty, call ;
, r for reparation—The wrongs we have ftiftaiHed, j
caH for—Justice. That Reparation and. that
a . Juftiee, may yet ike obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmnets. But to divide and conquer was ]
1 the maxim of tfte Devil in the garden of Eden,
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi- "
pie of all his votaries from fhat period to the
£ present." <
)n Observatitns an the Boston Port-Bill, itfc.p. 78 "
1 by the late J. Quincy, jun.
rd " . ;
h This Day is Publilhed,
A NOIO R JAIiBY J. PEN NO, I 19, C HES N U T-S1 R lET '
an address \
- To 0e fyopte of Maryland, t
ON the origin, progreli and present state of
French •iccr.effion, with a (ketch of the infamous
attempts t e degrade the Oovernment of the United
States, and some retfe&iosi* on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the lad of April in the pre- ,
sent year, by a Member of the Hovfe of Reprefen- '
tativw. § junen
NOTICE <
_ To Owners of Carriages, and
Retailers of Wine Sfirits.
IN consequence of the late Epidemic in tins
City, numbers have negleiled to tnttr their
Carriages, also the retailers of Wine and Spi
rits to call and take ovi their Licencts. The
returning health of the City, the Office is re
moved from Cermantown to its former place,
No. 49 North Third-flreet, where those who
have neglefled mtift call and pay the duty on '
their Carriages, and those retailers take out theii '
Licence?— Their ready compliance will prevent f
incurring the penalty of the Law. 1
y J4MES ASH, ColleSor !
tf the Ift Survey of tlx ift
Dtvifion tf Pennsylvania.
Philadelphia, Office of lnfpe&ion ?
No. 49, North Third-llrcet. \
The STAMP-PKESS is kept at this
Offieo.
nov 9 • mw&f3w
_ JOHN SHIELDS,
BROKER, \
hC Embraces this opportunity to present his thanks j
1U to his fellow-citizens for their past favors y
" a and acquaints them that he is returned from e
Chefnut-hkll, to his former residence, the
' n House No. i% Chefnut between Front 1
and Second-street,
t" W HERE he holds himfelf ready to execute
o VV their commands in every branch of his
'V profeffion, trusting that from a refideßce in this
f city of 3s years he has it in his power to render
e them elTential service, afliiring them that his
comrnifuon (hallbe as low asanv in I own.
Lotts, Lands, Houses, Veflels, Certificates -
of every description and Bills of Exchange,
bought and fold, the docketts carefully exam- j J
ioed and clear titles made upon the Ihorteli no
tice, by the public's humble fervanr,
om John Shields.
. Odf" Good negotiable Notes discounted
uid xt a low premium.
;tn novemlver 7
eis Just Imported,
1 air Iron cannon, double fortified,. Woolwich proof,
lip with their carriages complete— 3, 4, 6 and 9
"ew pounders.
ngi Carronades, Wnvlwish proof, with carriages, &c.
the'. .Cannon po*,Vrin kegs of ajll.s each
1. RduA3, double-headed,and canmdvr (hot
Patent Iheathing copper, bright, assorted 18, 10,
11 , 2 4> 26 and >8 or per square foot, fteets 48'
OF ' by 14 inches, fuitafcle for vwffcls from 100 to
arc 1000 tons
Copper nails, bolts and (pikes
Boarding Pikes,
r Common cutlalfcs
>rs Gunners store » of all kinds
Tin-places No I—l-3 cross bnjtes
Patmt (hot in caiks of jewt. each
London porter and brown stout, in calks of 7 doz
her bottlcd -
Earthen ware in crates, aOerted
£ ot For Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
„ , Pir.c near jth street.
Oflober 19. eo . tf .
< 1
For Sale,
BY THE SUBSCRFBERs,
500,000 weight of Java Coffee
OF THE FIRST QUALITY, 1
LANDING from ou board tie ftip Cleopatra
C.ptain Wills, from Batavia. *
Willings &f Francis,
No. ii, p # nn Street,
noveraber 16
WICzALE,
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. r, to 7,
On mo'derate terms for Cadi or» short credit
James Lyls,
South Seventh-Jlreet, near Chefnnt.
nov *6 j
JSotice is hereby Given "
TH \T JppllClli(Vft »;t1 li Blade it tKe ,4 Trti.
fury o. 1 the United States for the renew*/
of the fallowing certificates of Six per Cents
funded debt —Handing in the name of Robert
Wil/ou of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the
lervice of the honorable Unifed Company 0 f
merchants of Erfgland trading to tbe Eaft-I n .
die*, which were loft from on board the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth toNei»»
York - Dolls. Ctj,
No 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dec.
i? 93, one certificate for 173J ,3
No 10,478) Reg. office 17th Dec.
1793., one Certificate for
Ellijlon is" John Perot:
»3 eod-Sw
N O~ttc~E; -
ALL Persons having claims upon the Eftat«
of Jamej Thorburn, Stonecutter, deceas
ed, are desired to present them for payment—
and those indebted to pay their refpeil ve bal-'
lances to
b. njamin JV. Alorrit, admhiflrator.
nov 14
TO BE RENTED,
( And immediate poffejfion given, J
A LARGE three fto.-y BRICK HOUSE, .
situate in Walnift-ftreer —The rooms are
commodious, airy and private—from which,and
its central pof:t ; «n, it is thought to be an eligi
ble fituatioh far a Public Office. For rermi, en
quire of BENJ. IV. MORRIS.
Atfo, A commodious Ware Houle, in Tay
lor's Alley.
O&obcr it). jtawjw
£DUCA i
Samuel Moon, jun'rs School,
IN CHURCH ALLf.T,
IS open again, for inflrading Girl» in Reading,
Writing, Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography,
including the Elements of Geometry, and the use
of the Globes.—From.the great encouragement he
has hitherto received, he refpe<slfully foticiu a con
tinuance of the favours of his Friends and the
Public.
a 3* An Evening School,
For EOT S—Kept at the fame pTace.
it m* 6th. 'qS 2iW4w
Whereas the certificate ot two
fbares of the Bank of the United States in the
name of Samuel Jmory, of London, banker,
No 3182, iflued in lieu of 11593, 11594, were
forwarded from London by the British packet
Countess, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for ,
New-York, which packet was captured by the
French, and the faifl certificate Joft ; add for the'
renewal of which, application is made at said
Hank, and all ptrfons concerned are desired
take notice.
CLEMENT BIDDLE.
Fhila. OA. >6, 1798. eo6w
FOR SALE.
Rice, in whole and half Tiejces.
fear"} »>»«•
Carolina and Georgia Indigo.
AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins.
Apply to
JV. is? J. Frazicr,
No. 95, So. Front Street*
november 13 3tawjw
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made to the Treafn
ry of the United States, for the renewal of th*
following Certificates of Shi Per Cent Funded
Stock, standing in the name of.jfoin Carboncll, of
London, the said Certificates having :«_n loft on
hoard the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
Falmouth to New-York.
ho. J072 1 Cert, for zooo dolls. ~l
2964 I do. 5000 >
10,577 I do. 3000 J
i Willings & Francit.
Philadelphia, augofr 50. V-'eofew
Notice is berehy given,
THAT application will be made to «he troafury
of the United States for the renewal of the follow
ing certificates of fix per cents funded debts, ftand
in the name of Jane GaljrietU of Geneva,
which were loft f rom on board the Swallow Pack
et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-York.
DoJ/u
No. 3 J9s.Reg.office 19thMay *95, icert. for 1000.
13,181. do. 14th do. do. 1d 6. for 3500
Willings & Francit.
Oilober 24* eod6w.
R. TAYLOR,
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. 96, NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Public thai
he continues to teach Ladies the Piano-
Forte as usual.
Nov. 6. tuthsa
I Bank of the United States.
November 14, 1798*
NOTICE IS HEREBY" GIfEN,
THAT application will be niane at the Trea
sury of the United States for the renewaf
■ f of a Certificate of Si* per Cent Funded Debt,
, No. 15,548, for 18,781 dollars, 33 cents, dated
Regirier's Office, January Bth, 1798, ifTued in
the names of William WillinJt, Jan H'illink,
Nicholas isf "Jacob I'u/i Ataphorjf Hubbard,
Truflees for sundry nx'Bcy-lenders is Amster
dam j which was forwarded the nth of Janua
', ry, 1798, under cover to Nicholas Obbes, esq.
8 and loft by the capture of the ship Columbus,
D faptain Skinner,fromNew-York forAmllerdani-
G. Simpfon, cq/b'r.
nov 14 iaw6w
Horses to Winter.
HORSES will be taken in to winter at P«»-
spect Hill, at the 12 Mile Stone, on the
5. Bristol rovd ; they will be well fad with clover
and timathy hay, well littered and cleaned, and
will alio have a larga field to eiercife themfelres
■in when the weather is good.—Enquire of Mr.
WUiuim JicU, merchant, Watet Urcet, or on the
premises.
Nov. 7 wf tf