*
3Mtets States, AND Philadelphia Daily
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chef nut Street.
166-1.5 PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, JANUARY 5, 1798. ; 5 ' [Pmwm Xni,"'
The owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Proi, mailer, capturedby
a Spaniih privateer and fold at Ceuta in I aft De
tember, may receive interesting information ref
peAing ber, by applying to the Department oft
JUat?. •
V The Printers in the sea-port town* of.
Jif: A Slites *ilS render a service to the
ffeu. ■ tsed, by tnfming tk» above in tbeir newf
.Jjn 3-
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company.
January sd, I
T T'HE Stockholders are refuelled to attend an
A adjourned meeting ts ti held at the Com--
pany's office at ,6 o'clock Friday evening. t
Jio.j. l
Ss? Griffith,
Store on Walnut - .
HAVE FOR SALE,
<& hhds. of Jamaica Hum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
Test rifle do. in pipes
Old' Port do. m htids.
.Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of clieils
Sail Canvass, No. I, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft India market
Nails affrrted
"Black quart bottles
'Queens ware in hhds. and cjatcs
Ifellow echre dry in caiks ;
And at New-Ybrk, on board the
£hip Diana, from Liverpool, experted round
as loon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
"THHMhjij
-Spwiifh Brou n . - 4
Venetian Red
Furple Brown PAINTS '
Patent white
White lead
Red lead
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
• Seaming tw ; ne
Ship Diana,
Fox Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
firm of Philip Nicklm &Co.
is now changed to '
NICKLIN E* GRIFFITH.
January t. eodtf
Lauding this day,
r --n onboasd thsfchooner Two Friends, Dan-
Mafter,
X pfpt " d I Jamilra-RUM,
S4LE.BY
George Latinter fc 5 Son.
usrvember 9. §
Jaaies Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of infortriing their friends
and jfee public, that ?hey have their
flore to No. 54, South Front flrert, -next dapt to Ed
ward Fox's Au&ion Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general affortmentof
European ilf Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
Oft. « 7 . a
Jame6 C. & Samuel W. Fiiher,
at their store,
N0.313, corner of Arch and Front Greets,
HAVE FOR SAIEy
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunk.*, aCTorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto fuity romall"Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat (ilk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffuties
aooo pic da Nankeens, and
Few cnefts bell Hyson T»a
Alfo —1500- boxes ted London Window Criafs,
from S.*by:6, to 19 by 14-T-and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, JiiTorted,, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
November 28. - 3,awtf |
NOW LANDING,
At South-ftrect Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord',
' Captain Thompson, from Bitavia-
About 300 tons firft qualiry Java Coffee (the
whole having been felefted) j
80 tons Java Sugar, in canisters and'bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves • -
TOR SALE BT
PETER BRIGHT.
Who also offers Far Sale,
Just landed from ship Amity, from
acs hhds Jamaica Sii'-ar, and
17P do. do. Rum.
November 13. dfiw
~A person well acquainted with
thetheory and prafticeof book-keeping,whohasfeeen
manyyeArsengagedinbufinefstorhimfelf andothers,
would he glad to be employed, cither as an agent
or fa&or ; or in polling books ; stating unsettled
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in French or Englifti,
A note addrefled to J. A. and left at this office,
•will be pun&ually attended to.
November 30.
House and Lots, in Bordent'own.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two (lory Koufe.
with the Lot on which it is eredtcd, situated
the middle of the beautiful and healthy
"Villaae of Bordemown. The hnufe is forty two
feet front, an*l in neat order The lot contains
one acre, ami is one handred feet on tke main
ftrcet, and extends with the fame breadth tobaek
(Irtet. Also, a Urge tot, containing nearly four
acres, fcf atated from the former hj back street.
One third only of the purchafc aioney Will be re
quired upon executing a deeJ, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold free •-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title givenf
For further particulars enquire either of Er.
Wiliianj Burns", reficjing in Bordcntown, nfar.
thj premil'?s, who will flvew the fame, or i>f
PETER THOMSON,
Coaveyancer, ue. 144, Market-street.
Deceiobei- ». jawtf
J
.-v, /
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
j - The fad failing (hip
SWIFT PACKET, .
P* Tll,c,: Mast r, (
N O W the firft wharf below
w^ScfifcSaiSsse. Market Street—has handsome 4c- (
cotomodationi for paffenpers—t'orfWghtaw paf
to the Master ou board, or to
N. &T J. Frazer,
Nft 9J, South jFr.ont Street.
Who haxrv'n hand, andfer Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces; Georgia
and Caroljfta Indigo, Molasses in hhds, Tenerife
i wine, icc. &c '
December ay 3tawtf.
Wanted to Charter,
A.J!riy(h vessel, fifteen hundred
two. thousand five hundred bar-
Peter Blight-,
WHO HAS FO* SALJE,
"Choice Red Port Wine in pipes and hoglhea
and old London Particular Madeira, fit ior imme
diate use, in p<p4s.
December 10 §iw
, for C.harlelton,
. t- THE SHIP
venus,
J a * wharf of Mejf fs. Perotts
§. QHE will take Freight on vary
* fe/- O low terms, and fail the-firft
I opehltrg.—to the maftt'r on board, or to
Jos. Anthony Iff Co.
Oetsmbcr ,S 5
for-Am iterdam,
:m The sty,
.mr FAR ME R,
J 0 "" M'Conj.o#f, Master ;
fail in a few days, the
part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, orpaf
fage, apply to the master on board, at Wabiut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE-
Who :• Landing, out cf the said Ship, from Bour
dcaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,
Sauterne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, S
prunes in boxes
november 14.
For Londonderry,
* THE BRIGANTINjE
' s U K ET,
pwv Witu** Whittev, Master.
A strong good ve(T»l, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all csnvenieut speed, a ,
(jreat part of h«r cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's whatf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or - .
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenberger s ivharf.
' Who wants to Charter.
[ —iJ£M9»m+j£ mXxM*r~three tons.
t nov 18. §
f For Sale or Charter,
The Snow
' mn%j good hope,
'jUiWill carry about laoo barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
j f JaL I.apply to
Pragers & Cg.
No. 151, bouth Second-street.
j ' Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rum, Madeira, Lifhon, and Teueriffc wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hainburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain,
-j A Large proportion of her
r jC\ cargo being ready to go on
boacil. is expeflod to fail on or about Sanday, the
j3di>f December.
- ; ForFrtfight or Faffage, apply to the Captain on
board, at"Walnut-street Wharf, or to
JJPHILIP NICKLIN W Co.
November 12. $
> 1—
e For Savannah, in Georgia,
; THE SHIP
' Sally Butler,
Captain ChishOlm,
A new vessel, with excellent
accommodations for passengers
Sails on the ro'h of December. Ftjr Freight or
Parage, apply to ROSS E3" SIMSOM.
Who bmc to difp<\[e of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
novtmbcr 18.
1 To be fold,
A AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
s» ii. ing 6 acres and 40 perches, v.wth a neat two
it story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an 3pple
d Orchard, &c. fituat* on the Irilh trail lane, in the
- to-yvnlhip of Moyamenfing, about mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
fee made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
~ elegance, (land unrivalled.
December I. dtf
d The Subscriber intends to make
application for t-he leoewafof a Certificate of a Share
0 in the Sank of the Uoired States, (landing in the name
13 of A. B. No. 5304, dated July it, i?97i the fame
" having been lott. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. i• §6w
1 ' ROSS Ssf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
e A few bales BaftavS, Goflas, and
a quantify of Bengal COTrON
f Bengal SUGAR, in tags arid boxes
Jamaica, T
St. Vinccpts, > RUM.
and Bengal J
300 calks RICE. ;nd
A parcel of (hip l>nildirg RED CEDAR.
o<ft. 11. . ?
i 1 '
Prison Manufad;ory.
FOR SJLF.,
( At the Brifon of the City and Cetuptf c' PbfleJ:!-
phia,
r Cut tfails of all sizes, from 3dy Vf >
Floorinif Brads, Spriegt, fsddl* and Tacks j
Oakum and chipped l.ogwcod
Shoemakers and SaiMers Thread
Also—Sawed Marb'e. suitable for.
tomh and hea :%t, >earths J( ui<
platforpu, facia, window lie.xi<, tilU,' c . ' -
All whifh mrj.he had en reasonable tcrrfis.
a Shoes made a/id Weaving done at said Priifon at
e a moderate price.
Orders from a diu-ance, direslcscl to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the prison, will be attended to.,
December j6. ; 1 inth6nn
NOTICE.
j
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
and EDIVARD FOX's Engagement)
rN consequence of many having beer, prevent
ed, frotp late unavoidable circumftancts-from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable-to former
notice. Tie Trustees now Inform them, .they
are ready tP iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply within (ixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnot Sfrret,
and those who do not, will be confided as re
linquiftiing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provuiltd for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
' JOHN ASHLEY, 1
JACOB BAKER.
' December 1.;.
a-nd Muitard,
of a superior manufailu/'ed,
,/TMNCrgR 3»d I eppe ,
V-> pcari fia*i*y;
Ale and Cyj+cr- ; T.i I Burton 1
London ForSpr ; r«Zu P«>rt an " 1 .t, r>
suitable fur exporiatiori or home ruin,
e The highest price given for Moitu.d-.Sredl
g Also far sale, A quantity of Booking and
•_ cammon JBaizes. a variety of colors; a bale of
. fu/tiani, Shaw,ls, &c, for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
Nq. 918, south Froit-ftreet.
•- nov. %"!• m.&tl.t.ij.
AH Persons
Having any demands agamft the Efttte of the
Ute George Irwin, are reqtefted to
bring in their accounts pioperly atteft;d, on or
before the firft day of nex: ensuing
and those who are indebted t« Otid eikte are £0
licited to make immediate paymeat to
SARAH IRWIN, Admibijratrix.
Nov. 29 1797. $
LEFT
At Aldermsrißedford'suffice, Lomlardllrtct,
No. 88, about three weeks ago, a piece
of cotton, supposed to be Aolen—iny person
haying loft the lame, proving property and pay
o ing charges may have it 4gain.
a , December 26. *6o.^.
| The Subscriber,
111 Cam.» tliof; to whera Be ji ipdcbtrf, that his
books, which have been kept open icrtheir inspec
tion linee December 1796 areflialancid to the 31ft
tilt, and will during the prefcnt month remain
open at his Countingrhoufe in Cirtfrmt Street for
their further inveftigatioll and fernt ny.
JAMRS GRELNLEAF.
~ Philadelphia, J-'n. tft 1795.
Insurance Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA
THE Stockholders are htreby notified, that an
Elediion for thirteen Direflors to serve for
is one year, will be held at tha company's Office, on
Monday, the eighth day of J'anaary neit, at II
o'clock.
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
j Dectroher dtßthj
Office of the Inlurance Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN consequence of an application from a imrri'ier
of Proprietors «{ Stock, made agreeably to the
aft of incorporation, a general meeting of the
Stockholders is particularly requtfted on Wednes
day, the 3d January next, at n o'clock, at the
| Office of the Company
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
" D December 16. dt3<JJ
ie Insurance Company ,of North
>p America.
THE Stockholders are hereby informed, that a
dated meeting of tfie Company gillie held at
their otKce on the ninth day of next (be
~ Ing the fecondTuefday in the tnonth) foi the Elec
tion of twenty-five Directors fortbe enfuiog year.
6BEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 14. th&tpt-9thj
FhiladelphiaandLaHcafter rurn
it pike Company.
' I 'HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
3r i annual EleiSion for 0 flkers for the ensuing
year,will be held at the Company's Office in Phila
delphia, on the second Monday in January next, at
10 o'clock, A. m. Wm. UOVETT, Sec'ry.
December 7. itsmfewt7J
- Pennsylvania Population Com
pany. !
ro THE Shareholders are hereby notified, that an
le Etrilion of Officers for the ensuing year, will be
le held at the Company's office, n0.53, north Fourth
m street, on Wednesday, the loth day of January
ill next, at J2 o'clock,
of. • jjy order o the Beard,
SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry.
'd December 16 eodtiothj
Tin Plates,
e t,
FOR SALE BY
£ SIMON WALKER,
, e Pine, near Fifth lireet.
December ' • ' • 1 w
- A House in Burlington for bale.
""TIIE fubforiber hjs » large, convenient two
-4 ftorj' brick Hoqfe, with States, Carriage
, house, and a parden, in the City
" of Burlington, New-Jersey, wiiich he wiffies to
s Ll. Fo,r termsapply at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to ' GEORGE WALI^EK,
Who has also for Sale,
Lots in Walhington City,
Contiguous to tke Capitol and to tbr principal
harbour.
Ptccrefycc 27. e0 7t
** - .• &
N O T I C E.
\ LL person» who have any demands 1
/i- <4w «S«t« ,rf Pt-vfvroo'D, df
in tjkxjl, fetr or Philadelphia, infwium, de
« cd, are riquelled to t&ci:' accounts,
prbiv <ly »;teftrd 4 and tbtife who are indebted
'n •- Urce, are dcSred to make iiuinodulj
t fiymeat, t»
c -anOßtiO' J ..
„ 7 So. Third-street. «
d:f
FOfl S- ILE '
fly JOHN MILLER, jun. & Co.
No. 8, Ch«lm»v4reet,
One hunared and eighty lahs
BENGAL GOODS,
/.mongft which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies „
Baftas Sannas
Gulztmiu .Tanrta Colfaes tc
G'.i2zi*s F.niertk?
Blue Clot! s Ca!ic»es.
i Palampoors Romall Handkel chiefs _
.Amongst them are a great proportion of the
■ ; manufactures of Patca. , T
' December 1. j
; JUST RECEfFED,
(via New-York)
AND N Of OPENING, BY
Georg-e Dob son, J
|Noi-.ijj, fuutlj Third street, tr
Ai? €Xtci>fiwe and geijeral aSbrtmcnt of d
HABtRDA&HERY, viz.
London mixt Pitii Galloons and Ferrets j
Commando, do.. Worsted Bindings,^flior-
te3 colenrs
*h«e «h»psl tite. Imperial, diSper, and
I ' 5 THrsid no. 6 to Thread
• iVgoteririflctKd whueKdgioo,
'• iie-Juuxio.Ji2, Bla«k nd coloured Cflt
r, a3'or.«.' jvJ, R,m, an ds
v cCateurcd do. Sattin ar.d Jo. -
Black few ing Sfflts BlackVilvet, 1-4 tp lli n
1 Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & peloa Sattinfc y
Silk and cotter Wires French Cambrkk n
Do. da. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated r
Black brush Feathers '* Buttons j
And a compleat afortment of G(»od?, suitable
- to the present and approaching season, at reduced
prices. Dec. 6. _ dtf
; Employment for the Poor. b
v
; FLAX tor SPINNING, P
) Tobcgiyen out every fccojwi, fqurth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of io and ia— e
back of no. fouth Fifth ahove Spruce-
street. ' eodaw
For Sale by the Subscribers, ]
, Prime Rice in whole and balf tierces
: Sautdeaux Brandy j
1 Teneriffe Wine
Melajfes . . T
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hogshead of paiit
britflus.
N. Cff J. Frazer.
! No. 95, Smith Front Street.
I Nov. 7 , : \dim
) t'refla. K-aiiiiis. : j
A Small cafgo, just arrived, aod now landing
at Chefnut street wharf, from the (loop Ya-
rico. capt. Hafkell, copfiftiag of Kegs, Boxes and
Jar*- A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and sacks -
of (oh shelled Almonds.- Apply to the Master
i cn board, q? to
Jos. Anthony Cf. t
t P.ccsrobcr 19 §cf_ a
Bank of North America,
January I, 1798. j
AT a meeting of the Directors this day, a diyi- j
dtfpd ioit !jx per cent, was declared for the last t
half year, which will he paid to the Stflcknolders or c
r thsir reprefeHtatives at any time after the i*>tb iutt. „
By order of the board, a
JOHN NIXON, Prefidcnt.
dtioth
Bank of the United States, {
January if, 1798. <,
DireAors have this day declared a dividend «
X of fifteen dollars on eacji fljare jfpr the last fix a
m«nt)is, — an additional dividend of four dol- 'j
a lars' on each ihare y arising from surplus profits.? j
x WJiich dividends will be paid to the j
. er«, or their legal reprefeutatives, after the xoth t
nffc. d6t t
. • —— : —-—• r
Imported (via New York) on the i
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at N0.61, Chefaut ilreet,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow- c
ing articles .
e Maharagonges Charconna Dor«ns 1
, Chintz and Cahctwj Dacca worked muflini
GilJ,.i Romaic Bandannoes
t Nillas & Penfiafoes Chafla Romals ,
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
Mull Mulfhankcrchiefs Palempores
Patna do. Banares Opium e
LeiTcr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
n november 17 tuths4w r
now Landing, c
From on board the ship Farmer, lying at Harper's
y Wharf, i
Claret in hhds. |
Drttn in cases
Sauterne Wine in do.
For Sale, apply to
John White/ides & Co.
No. 138, Markct-ftreot.
Also, en hand,
Bnurdeaux Brandy iR pipes
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few ca(n of Claret, of a superior quality.
November iq. § i
~~~ stolen"
" Out o£.thcfubrcribet's office a large blue
„ clothcloak,half \yorn. The inGde ofthe Collar '
h is faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a silver hook j
and chain as a faftening. A faitable reward
will be paid for rcftoring it. '
, WILLIAM MEREDITH
No. 111 South 3d Street. 1
Dec. 16. di# .j
FQR SALE, ar
William Priestman,
iiy, South Front-flreet, neat «locr to the Cuf*
>yj . 1 r tom-h«iile ? v * -A
A Urgt mjforimtni »/
Gold and lilver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
&JHK- plated Candlefiiclts
l)»JtbJe barrelled Guuf, by Mofllmer, mafcef
to:): t King H»
Iv.ao, by-ram.if • •(••» •
Pair duelling Ptflolj, by Knubtey, Charing
~ Croft
Pifle<flmj{.ir«i£fccipe, by Rihrigbt
_ opx of patent >4edicinis
to !'j. Scotch Thread
Snu'l colltilion «f lfcJokf, ind
Books of Prints
30,060 acres of Lwd in one lot, upon tfi«
Jlip SatiiJ.Y, in Mafot, county, Kentucky, pa
' tented by Pereival Bmt'er, in 1-87.
Alio, 14 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices or parcels of Watthes bought.
Jmn;i'-y 4. d^t
ValuaEe Books,
Just received by the Fai* American from
London, and now opening and felling by
J. OamroC, No. 41, Chefuut Street.
C A i' A L O O UiE£
Of the newly impiirtedWooks tn»y be had gra
tis. Thefc added to O's ufu&l 1 loci:, form an
fxtt»fi*e and .elejjjrat wcolleflioa ef ancient and
modern literature, and comprise books in sun
dry ljiiguagcs and oil' various fubjeils,
Thh
By J. Ok ielits, handsomely
bewiid iniH rtTTf embelliflird with an
elegant fr'tMrijpico: aiiJ ltventy tliree cuts.)
The Lobking Glass for the Mind,
O fc.
The Jvyenjle Friend;
B*- ng a valvule collfvifion of intereitinp and
' inifcellaneous incidents, catenated to exhibit to
young minds the happy cfletfls of youthful in
nocence and filial afl'ctftion—ln prole and ver'e.
Dcfigncd te improve and araufe the rising gene
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily pubii&ed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
, livered to fubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embellHhed with inelegant frontifpiece, for one
. dollar.
January 3. 3t.
Imported inthefIiipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Beurdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "1
( Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. ( Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Tlwmas Murgatreyd.
W«O BAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quart* casks
Rota__ do. do.
Pimento uTßjgij ~
> 4000'fcufliels Liverpool fait.
[ Aug. 24. tut3c6 tf"
3''' ' ' f
Thomas Randall,
PR' ; .3E£JTS' bis refpe&s to bis Friends, and the
Piiblic in general, informs them that he hasopencd
anOlFce, athishoufe. No. 88, Spruce ftrect, for
the purpose of tranfadling business is the line of
Cbwtpifiion and Agency, celle&ing rents and out
{landing claims in any part of the United Stares.—
' He flatters himfelf, that from his long refidar.ee in
: this country and a general knowledge of it, hisler
r cices will be found worthy the notice of those who
may please to Confide to him the management of
any of t&eir ijij
N- B. Security givjoji where required.
ntliH)o.»4 , 3tawtf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
"\T comnicncc drawing Monday, thezoth
VV Iritl. Tukrts'• sos Sale in this Lottery, at
■ Seven BLACKBURN'. Lottery
: and Brcduws' Gffice7~No. 64, South Second-street
- Tickets 1U tlx Schuylkill fridge Lattery, at 7*« i
thdUrn ahgck books are kept lor register
- ing and examining ip these, the City of Waihing
-1 ton, No.II. and Patej-fon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in liioft of the Lotte
ries authorifad by law 1)1 any of the States of the
; Union.
r N. b. The bufinrf of aBaoKER, in buying and
f'.-llinp; all lijpds of Public Stock and Securities,
drfcoußt)"(f Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, See, tic. wiS be duly attended to,
by ri WH. BLACKBURN.
, »«W(r iff,,,'. §
DANCING SCHOOL.
r 4I'DOUGALL presents his
V V moil compliments to his form
er employer* ifeflTtjhg citizens in general, and re
turns his inoit grateful thanks, for the very
bountifol encouragemeut he has expetieiiced for
tnefetwenty.five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his fchpol is now
open, at hib
s Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin 1 at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and i in the evening for yotang
gentlemen.
P«c. 8. aawtf.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Salts
For D R T GOOD S.
( Forenoon —Edward Pox, JCo. 56,
' ja j. J south Front-llreet,
Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
(_ South Front-flreet.
f Sorenoon—John Conneßy, Old Citv
rr,.,ri„ v J Auflion, No 7jfoui'b I'rcnit-ftreet.
r J 1 J \ Afternoon—\%"illiam Shannon, No.
f C. High-ftrecf.
\ No - r4
rr, r . $ Forenoon—Edward Fox.
j >urf ay Afternoon —Joh« Connelly,
r ; j_ Forenoon —William Shannon. \
r '' •' j U'crtjoon—John ConncHy.
f Saturday Afrenn'On———m 1
Ldtefl Foreign Intelligence. 1
'• V*<•'' Mit ?» '- J
Rceei&tt}- at Nnv-Tofk, by the Franklin, <
front Greenock.
— 1
LONDON, Nor. 6. * '
Stocks*—This day at twelve o'clock.
Three per ceßt Cons. 4.9, 48, 7-s—Dit- 1
to Scrip. 50 1-2, 3-8.
Three per cent. Con». for Dec. Ig 1-8, 1
49-
The Paris journals to the idinft. inclu
sive, v*bich we received yederday, coutain, 1
ampngft other intelligence of high impor
tance, the articles of the de.initive treaty of
peict, concluded between the Trench re
public and the Emperor, published in the
Redadeur of the 27th ult. and t.hich the '
editor of that paper dates to be authentic, :
though toot communicate to '
mrn-thrrcranyr fKywet-er, as this '
treaty may be, the following decree and '
proclamation of the d.'reClory, relative to '
the hoflilities to be carried on against this '
eountry, are perhaps more calculated at the 1
prefeiit moment to excite the attention of 1
Englishmen : f
Decree of j Rrumatre, 08. 29, year VI. I
" Art. 1. There (hall be afl&ribled, with- 1
out delay, on the coasts of the ocean, an
army, which /hall be called the army of
Er.gland. £
" 2- Citizen Gen. Buonaparte is appoint- 1
ed commander in chief of this army. It 0
shall be prnvifionally commanded by citizen l '
Defaix, general of divilion, who for this
purpose (hall iiiftantly repair to Renne's. ' c
"3. The minister at war is charged
with the executiou of tbe present decree,
which shall be inserted in the bulletin of
the law.*. .
(Signed) lo
La.revzillierre Lepaux, Pres."
Another decide—£ame date.
" The executive directory, considering f
that the queen of Portugal, instead of fend- '
ing a pure and firnple ratification of the
treaty of peace concluded with the execu- . .
ti*e direCtory, in the name of the French
republic, on the 23d Thermidor, year V, j*
within the two months allowed by that trea
ty, has put her principal fljrong places into f
the hands of tlie English army, decrees as
follows : . re '
" The treaty between the French repub
lie and the queen of Portugal, concluded on
the 23d Thermidor, year five, and not rati
fied on the part of her fofi'maielty, is de- ?
clared to be of no esses. V
" The minister qfjonfigri affairs is charg- C 3
ed to notify to M. Aranjo Bazevedo. mi
nifttr plenipotentiary of the cpeen ofPorr of
to gal, to quit the territory of the republic '
without delay.
(Signed) «
Lareveilierre Lepaux, Pres." ,
On the 31ft October, the Directory had me;
a public fitting, for the purpose of receiving par
Generals Berthier and Monge, who were Vei
sent by Buonaparte to Paris with the trea- «
ty between France and the Emperor. Ber- hea
thier held «n Olive Branch in his hand ery
They were both introduced by the minister arir
for foreign affairs, who made a speech on this
the occafon, in which he said, " The army cou
of Italy have given peace to the continent, ger
in order to humble tRe pride of England. reci
BRITISH PARLIAMENT. mo^
House of Commons, Thursday, Nov. 2. I Jaft
THE KING'S SPEECH. f, on
Sir Francis Molineaux, gentleman usher vtev
c.f the Black Rod, appeared at the bar, and afe
delivered a message from the house of Lords, 26t
importing, " that the king desired the at- whi
tendance of that honorable house, to hear was
his majesty molt gracious speech read in the bet'
house of peers." t j ar
Mr. Speaker and the members present at- nipt
tended accordingly. f, en ,
Ihe fpeakcr, on his- return, acquainted plea
the house, that he had been in (he house of gair
peers, to hear his majesty's gracious speech Frei
read from the throne ; a copy of which, to tion
prevent mistake, he had procured. It was "
as follows : to a
" My Lords and Gentlemen, g re {
" It is mjftter of great concern to me, thin
that the earned endeavours #hJd» I h»ve will
continued to employ since I laftftitt vou in The
parliament to restore to my fubjefti'tfif blef- ed o
lings of peace, on secure and honourable «
terms, Lave unhappily been rendered inef- puni
rcftua '- J , Lon
" Ihe declaration which I have caused by r
to be publilhed, and the other papers which tyra
T have direCted to be laid before you, will, then
I am confident, abundantly prjivc tp meai
and to tha world, that every been jami
taken on my part which could tend to ac- the 1
celerate the conclusion of peace ; and that horr
the long delay, and final of the ne- pays
gociation, are solely to be to the It is
evasive conduCt, the unwarrantable preten- rope
fions, and the inordinate ambition of those term
with whom we have to contead, and above «
all, to their inveterate animosity azaind fee v
these kingdoms. 6
«' I have the fulled reliance under the obta
blessing of Providence, on the vigour and pcric
wisdom of your councils, and on the zeal, the:
magnanimity, and courage of a great and to th
free people, fenGble that they are contend- ware
ing for their dearest interests, and determin- tions
ed to shew themselves worthy of the bless- f e ft
ings which they are struggling to preserve. to yc
M Compelled, as we are, by the mod evi- ough
dctrt neceflity, to persevere in the defence ilies.
of all that is dear to ns. till a more just and figne
pacific spirit shall prevail on the part of the ii> or
enemy, we have tha fatisfoction of knowing cons;
that we poiTefs means and resources proper- meet
tinned to the objefts -which are at stake. twee
" Dsring the period of hostilities, and I with
under the unavoidable preffurss of accuaiu- [ be c<
lated burthenn, our revenue has continued c row
highly productive. Our national industry [ isl am
lias been extended, and our commerce has flavei
furpaflVtl its former limits. I on
" Ihe public spirit of my people ha 9 bcrt-,
been eminently drfpbyed ; my troops, of the I
every h<vc aequirr.d fa Hi claims j '<
ta th? and admiration of theic coun
try ; and the repeated fuccefles of my navy,
over all our different enemies, have been re
klin, ccr.tly crowned by the signal and decisive
victory with which Providence has awarded
the exertion* of my fleet under the
* of Admiral Lord Duncan.
Jj, " No event could be attended with more
•Dit- important and. beneficial consequences, or
form a more brilliant addition to the nuoic-
rous and heroic exploits which, in the course
of the present war, have raised to a pitch
nclu- hitherto unequalled, the naval glory of the
itain, country.
ip»r- " Gentlemen, of the House of Commons,
ty of " I dire&ed the rttimates for the cn
-1 re _ suing year ro be laid before you. The
1 the ® ate 'he War, joined to the happy c<>nfc
tj,e qnenccs of otir reccrit fiicc.Ts, will, I tr.i(ti
ptig admitof (orn* expence, eoßufl.-
j eatlj with the vigoroul efforts which .our iit
, this uation indifpenftrbly requires. In considering f
and "'hat may the bed m»de of defraying the
„ to heavy expunce which will itill be unavoida- j
this k' f > you will, lam persuaded, bear in/hind
t the that the present crisis presents every aiotive
in of an,matc you to the molt effectual und spi
rited exertions: the true value of any tem
rj, porary facrifiees which you may <fnd necef
vith- {a l or tbia purpose, can only be estimated
, an b Y comparing them with the /mportanee of 1
y 0 f supporting effeflually our public credit, and
Convincing the enemy that, while we retain
)iut- t ' le ar dent desire for the conclufiott of peace,
on fafe and honourable terms, we pofTefs
izen t' l ' means, as well as the determination, to
this Support w ith vigour this arduous conted as
long as it may be necessary, for maintaining
ged t ' le faf «y. honour and independence of these
ree, kingdoms.
ti of " Lord and Gentlemen,
» " After the experience I have had of your
loyalty a<id attachment to me, and of your
" anxious regard for the interests of my sub- k
jt<sts, I have only to recommend to you a I
perseverance in the fame principles and con- J
'nd tiu<a - «'
" I he events of every day mutt more and k
cu more impress you with a just sense of tie A
1 hleOigs which we derive from ourctviLaod
religious eltebliflwocTity, ana which KaVe so hi
' 1™? diftingnifhed us among all the natioijs h.
of Europe. These blelUngs can only be pr|- T
'as erYet ' '"clcating and enforcing a diie V
reverence and obedience to the laws; by re- M
ib with promptitude, every attempt ti
to disturb our internal tranquility, and by th
maintaining inviolate that happy conftitu- 01
tion which we inherit from our anceflors, on L
which the security and happiness of every de
class of my fubjefts efTentially depend," or
cc
" r '* PROCLAMATION pc
.. Of the Executive Direflory to the French or
People. R
"5 Brumaire, OCtober 26. M
Citizens, . an
" The proclamation of the 4th comple- fa,
id mentary day, year 5, was intended to pre- ca
"g pare the French armies to march by the 15 Ei
re Vendemiare. £*
a- " The defenders of their country have tia
r- heard the voice of the directory : from ev- re|
- ery quarter they rejoined their refpe£tive of
er armies ; and the minister at war has, upon
>n this point, given roost ex '
y counts. In this generous in this ea- gr
t, gernefs to maintain the cause of liberty, we
the iliomflit of Frenchmen. pe
" Their warlike attitude has already re- M.
moved the ofiftacle which the cabinet of St. of
I. Jafnes s has so long opposed to the conclu- cef
fion of peace,with the Emperor. At the
r view of your position, Austria returned to grt
d a sense of her true interests ; and en the tht
s, 26th Vendemairc (Oa. 17) the treaty, the
t- which had been suspended near fix months ter
ir was concluded at San Formio, near Udina, hoi
ie between general Buonaparte, plenipoten- lan
tiary of the French republic, and four pie- wb
t- nipotentiaries of the Emperor, king of Bo- for
hernia and Hungary. You will learn with jud
d pleafufc, that several millions of men are a- fha
>f gain restored to their liberty, and that the on,
!i French people are the benefaCtors of na- wh
0 tions. j u j
» " This however, is not all. In order ties
to adjust the peace with the empire, a con
gvefs is about to affemblc. Citizens, every rati
, thing presages, that in a short time you trai
e will reap the fruits of so nyny facrifiees. one
? The peace of the continent will soon be fix- per
- ed on immoveable foundations. tiy<
- "All that now remains to be done is to tot
punish tne perfidioufnefs of the cabiaet of situ
London, which (till infatuates certain courts, pay
by making them the tlaves of its maritime for
1 tyranny, and even deceives the English said
, themselves, by extorting from them the and
1 means of prolonging upon the ocean the ca- ties
1 lamities of war, the effufion of human blood con
- the deftruftion of commsrce, and all the dec
t horrors which it purehafes, and which it lie-
P a y a »_ hut which mud recoil upon itfelf. 3
■ It is in London where the calamities of Eu- Hu
■ rope are contrived, and there they mud be felf
: terminated. p re
■ " Citizens, in these circumdances you the
fee very nearly the term of the military ex- Fre
ertions which the government is enabled to alp
■ obtain by French efforts. But until that and
period shall arrive, beware of laying down pod
. the arms which render you so formidable 4
to the enemies of your independence. Be- on t
ware of listening to the perfidious fuggef- pre«
tions of those who would annihilate the ef- (ball
feet of your triumphs. They will repeat mali
to you, that, peace being concluded, you rept
ought to return without delay to your sam- ty t
ilies. Yes, doubtless the directory has jud hem
fignt din your behalf a glorious peace ; but foor
iworder to etijoy these advantages, you mud Frei
complete your work ; you muit fecttre the excl
execution of the articles agreed upon be- that
tvi een I'rener and the Emperor; decide pote
I with promptitude upon those which are to agre
: be concluded with the Empire ; in a word, ditii
. chov.-n your exploits by an invaiioD of that sign
i ' a,K ' 1010 which your ancestors introduced 5,
' slavery under William the conquerer, and, Hut
, on the contrary, introduce the genius of li- Fret
1 crty, which will land on its shores when ty ti
, the Flinch difembar*. vent
, " Citizens, be afiured riTat the govern- St.
oun- merit is dtfi roilS to accelerate the happy mo
*vy, sppit when in concert with the legislative
11 re- b<»dy, it shall be enabled to rediice the ar
rifive mies to the peace eftabliffcrnent, reward the
rded fcjroes who compose it, and after having ce
njnd lebrated their Services by monuments and
feftivals worthy of their triumphs, diffufe
jiore through the whole ceuntry the truly 1 repub- I
, or lican spirit by which the armies have been I
jme- constantly animated, by restoring to their I
nirfe families all those *yho (hall be entitled to re- I
jitch turn thither.
f the " But you will judge for yourselves. The I
hour is not yet come. A few moments lor-1
, ger, and the preuch republic, triumphant, I
e ea- will e«j»y the fepofe which it will nrocure 1
The for the world. *
C>:ife- " The executive directory decrees, that 1
tr ill | the above pioclainatioii fhail be printW,
nfifl- ft# ..up, ie.lt to all the departments and
it- arthie™; aiCthat the annexed to that
ring of the-4th complementary day, year V, (liall I
r the jbe executed according to its form and ten- I
x'da- or." |
nind , I
>tive DEFINITIVE TREATY OF PEACE
fpi- Condu Jed between the Froicb republic, and |
em- th't Emperor, the king of Hungary citu't j
:cef- Bohemia.
ited 1
eof j [This treaty appeared in the RedaCteur of I
and the 27th Oft. On the following day, I
tain that-Journal inserted a notice in these
ace, wards—" We fiaften to apprize ourrea- I
Tefs dtrs, that though we are perfectly fare I
to of the exaCtness of the treaty with .the
las Emperor, inserted in our number cf yes- j
ing terday, this paper was not communicated I
lefe to us by the directory"—And this no- I
tice was sent rotintf to all the other jour
nals.] I
our
our His majesty the Emperor of the Romans,
ub- fc' n g of Hungary and Bohemia, and the 1
I a trench republic, being desirous to confoli- I
on- date a peace, the basis of which was laid in j
• the prslirrtinaries signed at the castle of Ec- »
ind kenwkM near Leoben in Syria, 011 the I Bth I
he April, 1797 (the 1 Germinal, stTfyear [ ;
nd of the Fr«nch repuhSi'c, one and indivisible) I ]
so have iiaiood for their plenipotentiaries, viz. I '
>«s his majesty the Emperor and king, the fieur -
r«- D. Martins Martrily, and noble Neapolitan <
Ue Patrician, marqfuis dc Gallo, knight of the t
re- royal order of St. Janvier, gentleman of c
,pt the bed-chamber to his majesty the king of c
by the two Sicilies, and his ambafTador extra- I a
u- ordinary at the court of Vienna ; the fieur t
on Louis, count of the holy Roman Empire, t
ry de CoLenzel, and great cress of the royal a
order of St. Stephen, chamberlain, privy j r
counfelbr, of his said imperial and royal a -
poftoliCil majesty, and his ambafTador extra- j '
rh ordinary to his imperial majesty of all the I f<
Ruffias ; the fieur Maximillian, count del a
Meerveldt, knight of the teutonic order, c
and of the military order of Maria Th.ere- I a
e- fa, chanberlain and major-general of the I 0
e- cavalry ia the armies of his said majesty the P
5 Emperor and king : and the fieur Ignatius j P
Baron dt Degelman, miriifter plenipoten- le
re tiary to the Swiss republic—Andthe French P 1
a- republic, iuonaparte, commander in chief di
re of the French army in Italy. v Itc
in The aforefaid after.an |tl
exchange if their respeCtive powers, have a- I tr
1- greed upoa the following articles ; I gi
■e Art. 1. There shall be hereafter a solid, Ia!
perpetual and inviolable peace between his I 01
;- Majesty the Emperor of the Romans, King m
t. of Hungary and Dohemia, his heirs and fuc- J
1- ceffors, and the French Republic. ex
ie The contracting parties shall give the Ifh
0 greatest attention to themaintaining between I ril
e themselves and their respeCtive dominions I wl
the mod perfeCl harmony, without hereaf
is ter permitting on either tide, any kind of pa
1, hostilities to be committed, either by sea or fe
1- land, for any cause or under any pretence I H
:- wbatfoever, and they (hall CErefully avoid Fi
1- for the future any thing which might pre- be
II judice the union happily established. There eft
1- (hall not be granted any succour or prote&i- Jth
e on, either direCtly or indireCkly, to those Jve
1- who (hall attempt any thing injurious or pre-1 ms
judicial againit either of the contracting par- I an
r ties.
2. Immediately after the exchange of the I all
y ratifications of the present treaty, °the con- cit
11 trading parties (hall take off all fequeftrati- I vil
1. ons imposed en the effeds, rights and pro- vai
- perties of individuals, residing in the refpec- nai
tiye territories and countries that are united to
3 to them, attdiattn of the public establishments I tre
f situated therein ; they bind themselves to as
, pay all the debts they may have contracted '
e for pecuniary advances made to them by the the
1 said individuals and public eftabliftiments, by
c and to discharge or retmburfe all the annul- mo
- ties fettled to their advantage by each of the I ral
1 contracting parties. | The present article is poi
? declared to exteid to the Cisalpine Repub-' tv
L C " TT- • for
• 3* His majesty the Emperor, King of coi
- Hungary and Bohemia, renonnces for him- tre;
: felf and his fucc*(Tors, in favour of the Th
French Republics all his rights and titles to the
1 the ci-devant Austrian Netherlands. The res]
French Republic shall enter »n the pcrpetu- fait
>al pslTtflion ef these countries, in full right ]
: and sovereignty, and on all the territorial ani
t poffeflions dependent thereon. gro
: 4. All debts mortgaged before the war, der:
■ on the land of the countries exprefled in the the
preeeeding articles, and which mortgages sole
(hall have been drawn up with the usual for- moi
: mahUes (hall be discharged by the French intc
1 republic—The plenipotentiaries of his majef- 1
ty the Emperor, king of Hungary and Bo- ded
hernia, shall transmit a statement of them as an,
soon as possible to the Plenipotentiary of the to 1
French Republic,; and previous to the gar
exchange df the' ratifications, to the end eau
that at the time oTthis exchange, the Pleni- tion
potentiaries of both powers may come to an Whi
agreement up,.| all the explanitory and ad- rela
ditional areicles of the present treaty," and whi
sign them.
5. His majesty the emperor, king of occ
Hungary and Bohemia* consents that the «nie
French republic (hall possess in full sovereign- the,
ty the ci-devant Venetian islands of the Le- of
vent, viz.—Ocrfou, Zante, Cephalonia, Wl,
• Maure, Cerigo, and other islands de- thai
ft
mo- pendent thereon, togtther, vvitl» Butrinto,.]
itive Larta, and in general all the ci- j !
ar- devant Venetian eftabliihments in Albania, 1 1
the which are situate lower down than the Giilph :
ce- of Lodrina. i ]
and 6. The French republic consents that his 1
BFufe majesty the emperor and king (hall possess in
jub- I full sovereignty the countries hereafter men- ]
>een J tioned, viz. Iltria, theci-devant <
heir I Venetian islands in the Adriatic, the mouths t
> re- I of'the Cattaro, the city of Venice, the Ve- ?
I netian canals, and the countries that lie be- f
The I tvreen the hereditary dates of his majesty the c
lon- I «mperor and King, the Adriatic sea, and {
ant, 1 a line to be drawn from the Tyrol along j
Lure J tlje Torrent before Gardola, ft ret eh ing a- a
1 cross jbe Lake Garda, as far a3 Lacifa ; e
that I from thence a military li/»e"fl) a ll be drsivn to ; t
tW, I Sangiacoino, holding out a& iequal advantage t
and Ito both parties, which fliall be traeed ; (
that I out by engineer officers appointed 011 eitlicr ' c
Olall j fide,, previous to the exchange of the r.rtifi- | f
ten- I cations of the pre ent treaty. The Jine of a
1 limitation (hall then pass the Adige to San- t
I giacomo* running along the left bank of that c
CE j river to the mouth of Canal-blanc, comprif- :
and I ing in it that part of Porto Legnanothat lies g
and I on the right fide of the Adige, together a
I with a diftridt of three tUoufand toife-. The r
I line (hall be continued along the left bauk of t
rof I the Canal-blanc, the left bank of the Tarta- e
lay, I so, the left bank 01 the canal called the Po. t
lefe I lifella, to where it empties itCelf into the Po,
ea- I and along the left bank of the great Po, as si
ure I far as the sea. u
the I "• His majesty, the emperot, king of ft
res- I Hungary and of Bohemia, renounce? fore- si
ted I ver, in,his own name, and in that of his sue- tl
no- I ceffors, See. in favour of the Cisalpine fepub
ur- I lie, all the rights and titles arifiifgfrtfm those I
I rights which his said majesty might pretend p
I to over these countries before the -war, and tl
115, I which countries at present conftkute a part I ai
the I of the Cisalpine republic, whkfh'-republic j o!
jli - I (hall possess them in full right and fdverrign- ai
lin ty, together with all their territorial dept-n- 'rt
Je- I deneiea.
Sth I 8. His majesty the emp«or, king of Hun- je
ear I -and Bolremia. aclmowledgcs the Cifttl
le) pine republic as an independent power. This cl
iz. I republic comprises the ci-deyaut Austrian
:ur Lombardy, the Borgamefqu<-, the Briffan,
an the Cremefque, the city and fortrefs of Man- g
he tua the Mantuan Pefchiera, that part ef the pi
of ci-devant Venetianftates to theeaft and south so
of of the Ligner described in the- 6th article, til
ra- as the frontier of the dates of his majesty R
ur the emperor, in Italy ; the Modenefe, the
re, the principality of Maffa, and of Carrara,
ral and the three Legations of Bologna, Fer
vy I rara, and Romajjna.
a- 9. In all countries ceded, acquired, or
a- ' xehanged, in virtue of the present treaty,
he I sequestration imposed on the cflqCia, rights,
Je I and property ofindividualsbelonging tothefe
:r, I countries (hall be taken off, which individu
e- als (hajl have been thus affefted on account
ie of the "war that has subsisted between his im- thi
le perial and royal majesty and the French re- thi
lis publie, nor shall they 011 this account be mo- mi
n- lefted in their persons or property. Such Rt
h persons as may hereafter be desirous to with- in
: f draw from the said CQuncrisa/ihall be bound wii
Ito make a declaration of such their intention an<
n j three months before the publication of the
a- I treaty of definitive peace. There shall be
I granted them the term of three monthsto eu
1, able them to fell their effects either moveable
is Jor immoveable, andof. j .
g I manner they may judge mod: expedient.
;- 10. The countries ceded, acquired, or Re
exchanged, by virtue of the present treaty, • i
e I shall leave the debts moj-tgaged on their ter- 1
n I ritories, to be discharged by those. under
is I whose dominion they may fall. p ?
f- I 11. The navigation of such rivers and ca
>f I nals as mark the boundaries between the pof
r sessions of his majesty the emperor, king of
e Hungary and Bohemia, and those of "the the
J I French republic, shall be free, without its vet;
■_ being permitted to either of the powers to the
e I establish any toll or custom on them, or keep zer
i- thereon any armed vessel, by which, howe and
e I ver is not precluded any precaution which etti
- J may be thought necessary for the protection cha
- I and fafety of the fortrefs of Porto-Legpaoo. the
I 12. Allfales or alienations of property, and
- I all engagements entered into, either by the cess
-1 cities, or by the government, or by the ci- ham
. I vil or admi 11 ift rat of the ci-der tori
j vant Venetian territories, for the maiirte
- nance of the German and French armies, up
1 I to the date of the signature of the present
i I treaty, shall be confirmed and acknowledged
> j as valid.
13. The territorial titles and archives of
: I the different countries ceded or exchanged i^c I
,I by the present treaty, shall, within two Fret,
months from the date of the exchange of alien
: I ratification, be put into the hands of the garni
il powers which shall have acquired the propek--
ty of them. The plans and maps of th* T
fortreffes, towns, and countries, which the S/ry
contracting powers acquire by the present "*
treaty, (hall be faithfully given up to them. <whoJ
: The military papers and registers taken in by th
1 the present war from the etat-major of the all th
: refpettive armies, (hall be restored in the minij.
fartie manner; cannc
14. The two contracting parties, equally ejjenh
animated with the desire of removing, every neutn
ground that might interrupt the good un- retogt
derftanding happily established between Tt
them, mutually bind themielve?, in,the moll »" mt
folentn manner, to contribute, to the. ut- >»g 1
mod of their power, to the maintenance of wers,
internal tranquility inthtir respective ftaje's. wife'
15. There (hall immediately,be. conclu- &y,,e
ded a treaty of commerce, founded upon <
an equitable bafiJ, and fiich; *iall£scure ftjhe Ci
to his majesty the emperor* king of Hun- r-efolu
gary, and the French republic, advantages fboula
<-■5u.1l to those which the moil favored na- to eta
tions enjoy in their refpefiive flares Mean- Helut
While all communications and commercial
relations (hall be restored to the fituatiou in Be
whicli they dood before the war.
16. No inhabitant of all the countries
occupied by the Austrian and French ar-
diall be prosecuted or questioned, ef- Th
the.- in his person or property, on account ladelp
of his or his conduCt, ci- Th
vil, military or commercial, during thf war Sferm
that has taken place between the two powers. C J] tht.
Mr
into.-] -Li-. His majesty jibe emperaiyjung of
e ci- ! Hungary and Bohemia, fliall not, agreeably
ania, to the principles of neutrality, admit into
lulph any of his ports during the course of the
present war, more than 6 armed ships of war
t his belonging to any of the belligerent powers,
•fs in 18. His majesty the emperor, king of
men- Hungary and Bohemia, binds hirafelf to
vant cede to the Duke of Madena, ai an indem
uths nification for the territory which that Prince
Ve- and his heirs poflefled in Italy, the Brif
' be- gaw ; which he shall pcrflefs upon the fame
r the conditions as those in virtue of which they
and possessed the Modenefe.
long j 19. The landedand personal property not
% a- alienated, belonging to their royal highnefl"-
nto . duchess Christiana, which are fittkted in
tage the countries ceded to the French republic,
:eed ; shall under the deduaioiAtf
tficr | expencea of sals, wi'thin three years. The
ftifi- ' fame /hall be done relative to the landed
- of and personal property of his royal highnefg
3an- the Archduke Ferdinand, in the territory
that of the Cisalpine republic.
prif- :o- There shall be held at Raftadt a .Con
lies grefs, solely composed of the plenipotenti
ther aries of the Germanic empire and the French
The republic, for a pacification between : these
kof two powers. This Congress shall be Open
irta- ed a month after the signing of the present
Po- treaty.
Po, :>2. The warlike contributions,deliveries,
, as furnifhings, and preftations of every kind,
which have taken place in the refpeftive
of dates of the contraaing powers, shall cease
ore- from the day on which the ratifications of
fuc- the present treaty fhall'be exchanged,
ub- 23. His the errjperor, king of
)oie Hungary and Bohemia, and the French re
er.d public, shall mutually prcferve to each otfcr
and the fame ceremonial with regard to tank
lart : and other etiquettes which was constantly
blic j observed before the war. His said majesty
gn- ! and the Cisalpine republic shall obfeive with
'en- regard to each other the fame ceiw.oninl of
etiquette which v/as i:i use between his* ma
un- jefty, and the republic of Venice.
f*l- 24. The present Treaty of Peace is de
his ) clared coiiimoh to theßatavian republic,
i'an 25. The present treaty shall be ratified
an, by his majesty the emperor* king of Hun
an- gary and Bohemia, and by the French Re
the public, withiu 30 days frona this day, or
itb sootier if possible, and the instruments of ra- 4
:le, tification in due form fliall be exchanged at
sty Raftadt. b
'he Done and Signed at Campo Formio,
ra, near Udina, the 17th October, '97,
n ~ ( 2 6Vendemaire,year6of the French
Republic,, one and indivisible.)
or (Signed) BUONAPARTE.
■J, The Marquis de GALLO.
ts, LOUIS, Count COBENTZEL.
He The Count de MEFRVELDT
lu- The Baron de DEGELMAN.
Nt The Executive Direaoryratifiesandfigus
71 " P rcf « t Treaty of Peace with his Majesty
e- the Emperor, King of Hungary and B&t
-- mia, negociatedin the najjn- of ;.'.e flench
ch Republic by Citizen Buonaparte, General
h- in Chief of the Afmy of Italy, inverted
id W]'t(| powers by the Executive Direftory,
>n and charged with inftruaions to that efFeft!
Ie Pone in the National Palece of the'
je Dirtftory, 5 Brumaire, Oft. 26,
u- 6th year of the French Republic,
lc one and indivisible.
K» ■
Mr WICKHAM.
Relative to thisgentleman, the following in
y, • terefiing notes arc infertcd in the lafl Pa
r- ris papers that have reached England.
cr , \-
Ext raft fromtheßegifterofthe proceedings
I of the Executive Direaory.
Paris, 29 Fruaidor.
if The Executive Direaory,convinced that
.e the mission of Mr. Wickham, te the Hel
:s yetic cantons, has no reference whatever to
o the respective intereftsof England and Swit
p zer'and, and that hit sole objea is to excite
: and encourage plots .1 gain ft the internal and
h external fecunty of tlie French Republic,
II charge citizen Mingaud toinviteand require
1. the Government of the Canton of Berne,
, and also the other Helvetic cantons, if ne
e cefTary, to give direaions for Mr. W-ick
- ham's immediate departure from the terri
- tories of Switzerland.
t (Signed)
) Reveilliere Lepaux, Pref.
Lagarde, Sec. Gen.
' Reply of the Cat. ton of Bertie.
f I republic of Berne, always holding in
hltfe higheji eflimation the good intentions of the
) French republic, has taken into mature conjider-
F atron (htMetraufmitted to them By citizen Min
■ £avd, in the name of the Executive Direaory
• ofthe\ French republic.
< 'They have to remark, that for nearly a cen
' y r y P a s' British agents have\ uniformly resided
m Switzerland, and that Mr. JVickhr.m,
ruhofe departure from Switzerland is required
by the Executive Directory being accredited lo
all the Jlates of fthe Helvetic Confederacy as
imnijhr plenipotentiary, the republic of Berne
cannot decide fepc.rately on a fubjeQ whichfo
essentially involves the rights of others, and the
neutrality of the Helvetic Body, as declared and
reeogr.ifcd by all the powers now vtivar*
The government of Berne, always employed
in maintaining harmony and good undetfiand r
ing with France and the other Belligerent po
wers, fulmits the above confidera'.ions to the
wifd'-w and goodfenfe of the Executive DireS
6ry, rfurlng the Directory at the font time,
that the goverumert of Berne, in concert, with,
\the Cc-Statis, imill tofe no time in coming to a
resolution fuitab!e to the magnitude'jf thefuljeS
IhoulJ the Executive Diredory deem it expedient
to oddrefs itfelf to this eJi{!,'to the LudMt
Helveic Body.
(Signed) MORI.OT, Chancellor.
Berne, 03. 11, 1797.
FROM LLOYD'S LIST *
oSober 27.
The Diana, Pile,from Liverpool to Phi.
ladelphia, is put into Valcntia in Ireland.
The brig Carolina of Philadelphia, Capt.
S'evens, from Hambro' to Sunderland, is lofl
off tit Dogger Bank—crew saved.w* ■nr.
By this day's Mail.
id
STATE PAPER.
DECLARATION.
HIS Majesty's most" benevolent endea
vours -toTcftore to his People the blessings
of iecure and honorable Peace, again re
peated without fucccfs, have again de
uionftr. ted oeyondthepofiibility of doubt
the determined and perflrvering hostility
of the Government of France, in whose
unprovoked aggression the war originated,
boundlefs and destructive
ambition it is still prolonged. And while
kyr Uie course of these transaCtions, con
rtiuueJ proofs have been afforded, to all
his majesty's faithful subjeCts, of his anx
ious and unremitting solicitude for their
welfare, they cannot, at the fame time,
have failed to recognize, in the uniform
eonduCt of the enemy, the spirit by which
the councils of France are still actuated,
and the objects to which they are direct
ed.
His Majesty could not but feel how
much the means of Peace had been oh
ftryCted by the many additional difficul
ties which his enemies had so repeatedly
thrown in the way of every negociation.
Nevertheless, on the very firft appearance
of circumstances in some degree favora
ble to the interests of humanity, the fame
ardent desire for the ease and happiness
of his subjeCts, induced his Majesty to
renew his overtures for terminating the
caloaiixies of War—thus availing him
fclf of every opening which could in .uiy
manner lead to lecure an honorable peace,
and confuting equally the wishes of his
own heart, and the principles by* which
his conduct has invariably been guided.
New objeCts were immediately inter
posed by those who still directed the eoun
cils of France, and who, amidst the ge
neral desire for peace which they could
not at that time openly clifclaim, still re
tained the power of fruftrating the wish
es of their own country, of counteract
ing his Majesty's benevolent intentions,
and of obstruCting that result which was
so neceflary for the happiness of both na
tions. Difficulties of Form were studi
ously created—modes of negociation were
insisted upon, the most inconliftent with
*hcir own eonduCt in ever pother instance;
the fame spirit appeared in every other
step which was taken by them—and
while die moQ; unwarranted insinuations
were thrown out, and the uioft unfound
ed Reproaches brought forward, the esta
blished customs and usages, which have
long prevailed in Europe, were purposely
departed from, even m thc.Hmplcft a £t3.
which were to be done on their part for
the renewal of the negociations All
these things his Majesty determined to
disregard ; not as being insensible of their
purport and tendency, nor unmindful of
the importance of these points in the
public intercourse of great and independ
ent nations, but resolving to defeat the
object of these artifices, and to fuffer no
•iubordinate or inferior consideration to
impede, oh his part, the difcuffian of
the weighty and extensive interns on
which the termination of the war rrtuft
neceflarily depend.
He directed his Minister to repair tq
France, Furnifhecl with the most ample
powers, and instruCted to communicate
at once an explicit and detailed Proposal
and Plan of Peace, reduced into the ftiape
of a regular Treaty, just and moderate
in its principles, embracing all the inte
rests concerned, and extending to every
subjeCt connected with the restoration o(
public tranquility. The communication
of this paper, delivered in the very firft
conference, was accompanied-with ftrch
explanations as fully stated and detailed
theutmoft Actent of his Majesty's views,
and at the fame time gave ajjaplp room
for the examination of every disputed
point, .for mutual Arrangement and con
cession, and for reciprocal facilities, aris
ing out of the progress of fair discussion.
To this proceeding, open and liberal
beyond example, the eonduCt of his ma
jesty's enemies opposes the most striking
contrast. From them no counter-pro
jeCt has ever yet been obtained—no State
ment of the extent or nature of the Con
ditions on which-they would conclude a
ny peace with these kingdoms. Their
prptenfions have always been brought,
<brjrar:i either as detached or as prelimi
nary-points, distinCt from the main ob
jeCtof negociation, and accompanied, in
every instance, with an express reserve of
farther and unexplained demands.
Tk. ; points which, in pursuance of this
fyftera, the plenipotentiaries of the enemy
propofedfor separate discussion in their firft
conferences with his majesty's minister,
were at once frivolous aud wfFenfive—none
of them productive of any solid advantages
to France, but all calculated to raifr new
obftacies in the way of peace. And to
the demands were foot? added another, in its
form 'HiprecedentL-d, and in its substance, i
extravagant, and fuel* as could originate !
only in the most determined and inveterate
hostility. The principle of mutual com.
penfation, before cxprefsly admitted by a
common consent, as the just and equitable
basis of negociation, was now dlfclaimed
every idea of moderation, every appearance
■ ofjuftice, was disregarded—and a concef
. fion was required from hil majesty's ple
; nipotentiary, as a preliminary and indifpen- i
T fable condition of liegociation, which must
at once have superseded all the objects, and j
precluded all the means of treating. France, \
, after incorporating with ber own domin- 1
; ions so large a proportion of her conquests, <
, and affeCting to have deprived herfelf by her t
own internal reflations, of th« power of t
alienating these valuable additions of tern- I
1 tory, did not fcrupie to demand ftom
. his majesty the abfolilte and unconditional t
r surrender of all that the energy of his peo- c
pie and the valour of his fleets and armiefc, 1
' have conquered in the preftnt war, either 1
1 from France, or her allies,
i She required that the power of Great- r
( Britain should be confined within its former r
limits, at the very moment when her own t
dominion was extended to a degree almost r
uuparalleled in history. She insisted, that, c
in proportion to the inereafe of danger, the c
means of resistance fnould be diminished ; t
_ and that, his majesty should £ive up, without i
T compensation, and into the hands of his-e- a
nemies, the necessary defences of his possess- i<
ions, and the future fafeguards of his v
; pi r e- Nc>r was even this dtmand brought (
_ forward as constituting the terms of (ieace, r
, b ut the price of negociation ;as the condi- a
tion on which alone his majesty was to be a
allowed to learn what furthej unexplained t
) denvindj, .were fti'll reserved, and to what t
; greater facri&ces these unprecedented con- n
ceSions of honour and fafety were to lead. f
Whatever were the imprefiions which si
such a proceeding created, they did not in- 1
duce the JViiig abruptly to- preclude the t
; means of negociation. Tu rejecting with- p
( out a moment's hesitation, a demand, which it<
could Wave been- made for no other reason p
than because it was inadmissible, his majef- ;
ty, from the fixed resolution to avail himfelf b
• of every chance of bringing the negociation c
to a favourable iffne, directed that an open- : d
ing should still be left for treating on rear
fonable and equal 'grounds, such as might n
become the dignity of his crown, and the h
rank and station in Europe in which it lias c
pleased Divine Providence to place, the p
British nation. j y
This temperate and conciliatory conduCt g
was flrongly expressive of the benevolence a;
of his majesty's intentions : and it appeared g
for some time to have prepared the way for ir
that result which has been the uniform ob- b
jeCt of all his measures. Two months elapf- o
ed after his majesty had unequivocally and t(
definitively refufed to comply with the un. si
reasonable and extravagant preliminary tl
[ which had been demanded by his enefrues.
During all that time the negociation was p
continued open, the conferences were regu- d
larly held, and the demand thus explicitly, b
rejected by one pal ty was never once renew- al
ed by the other. It was not only abandon- ti
ed ; it was dlfclaimed ; assurances were giv- T
en in direiSt contrauiCtion to it. I'rouiiLs al
* were continually repeated, that his majesty's h
explicit and detailed proposals should at tl
I length be by that which could a- p
i lone evince a real disposition to negoeiate rr
with iincerity, by the delivery of a counter- ai
- projeCt of a nature tending to facilitate tl
conclusion of peace ; and the long delaykof tt
; the French government in executing these ai
- promises were excused and accounted for by cl
an unequivocal declaration, that France t:
( was concerting with her allies foV those, fa- si
crifices on their pact, whicK might afford the m
means of proceeding in the negociation.— ir
Week after week passed over in the repeti- o;
t(on of these "solemn engagements on the tc
part of his majesty's enemies. His desire ; e:
peace induced him to wait for their'
completion, with an anxiety proportioned tl
1 to the importance of the objeCt ; nor was tl
: it much to expeCt, that his minister fhonld ei
■ at length be informed what was the extent t<
and nature of the conditions on which his w
enemies were disposed to terminate the war. w
It was in this stage of the bufir.efs that, ai
on the ilth of September, the appointpient d
of new plenipotentiaries was announced on fc
; the part of France under a formal promise as
. that their arrival should facilitate and cxpe- f<
dite the work of peace. i e i
To renew, in a shape still more offensive ; cl
than before, the inadmissible demand so long ! ir.
before brought forward, and so long a ban- T
doned, was the firft aCt of these meifengers ts
of peace. And such was now the midif- re
guifed impatience of the king's enemies to b
terminate all treaty, and to exclude all prof- oi
peCt of accommodation, that even the cor.- tl
tinuance of the king's plenipotentiary at the tl
appointed place nf negociation, was mase h.
by them to depend on his immediate com- ai
pliance with a condition which his court had tl
two months before, explicitly refufed, and fa
concerning which no further discussion had a]
since occurred. His reply was filch as tl.- w
occasion required : and he immediately re- o!
eeived a politive and Written order to depart d
from France. , c ,
The subsequent conduCt of his majesty's tl
enemies has aggravated even this proceed- c<
ing, and added frtfh in'fult Jo this unexam- tc
pled outrage The infurmouiitable ohita- tc
cles which they threw in the way of peace tj
were accompanied with an ostentatious pro- ai
session of the most pacific dispositions. In fr
cutting off the means of negociation, they al
still pretended to retain the strongest desire 1q
to negociate : in ordering the king's mifi- it
ifter to quit their country they profefTed the
hope of his immediate return to it ; and in
renewing their former inadmissible aud re
jeCted demand, they declared their confi- b<
dent rfxpef'.ation of a speedy and favorable
anfvver. iet before any answer could ar- ec
rive, they publiflied a declaration, annonn- S
cing to their country, the departure of the L
king's minister, as.d attempting, as in every ai
ts former in (lane?, (o ascribe lotjieconduct of
e, • Great-Britain the difappointrnent of the
te j general wtfh for peace, and tl>e renew?.' of
te j all the enlamities'of war. I>e fnnie at
n - J tempt has- been prolonged in
a j communications, equally in fidious and iiiu
le fory, by which they have obvioußy ipteil
- ded ta furnifh the colour andemply pretence
ie of a wish for peace, while they have still
f- ftudiuufly and obfliwately peril fled in err.d
-- ing every step which could lead to the fac
i- cess of any negoci'atiori, have continued to
ft inlittor. the fame inadmiliible and extrava
d g»nf preliminary, and,have uniformly with
i, held ad explanation, eirher on the partica
l- h»rs of the proposals of peace so long Gn?e
j, delivered "by his raajeily'i mitnfters, or any
r other terms on which they were fWrftfelVt*
>f ready to conclude : and ..this M the "vain
h»pe, that it Wtildbe poftfble by'any arti
li lice to difgqife the truth of these' tranfac
al tions, or that any exercise ef poirer, hovv
>- ever despotic, could prevent such fafls from
s, being known, felt, and understood, e*en in
r France itfelf.
"1 o France, to Europe, and the world, ft
lhn ! be manifeft, that the French govern
r mem ( while they persist in their present fcn
n timents) leave his majesty without an alter
it native, unless he were prepared to furren
., der and facrifke to the undisguised ambition i
e of his enemies, the of his crown, and
; the fafety of his dominions. It must be man
it ifeft, that, instead of showing on their part
•- any inclination to meet his majesty's pacif- ]
! lc overtures on any moderate terms, tbey ne- ,
i- ver brought themselves to slate any terms
t (oowevtr exorbitant J.»ou which they weie .
, ready to eonclude peace. They have asked ,
- as a preliminary (and in the form ttie mod
e arrogant and offenfive) eoncefSons which j
d the comparative situation of the two coun
t tries would have rendered extravagant in a- j
-j ny stage of negotiation ; which were direS:- ]
! ly contrary to their own repeated prafef
fi | fions. } and which >tbey pe- (
- | remptorily required to be complied wijth. in
e Ui, very outset : rejerviug 'an unlimited ,
- | power of afterwards a<xmnuUhigj"<,,rHint '
i i to time, frefh demands,,
ti ; portion to every new con« e ®o»,;}-'rlfl .vi p. m
- On the other hand, t^e,-.terms projsflTed
f by his majesty have been stated in the nroft
i clear, open, and unequivocal manner. The
- difcuflion of all the points to which they
- i elate, or of any others which thr enemy
t might bring forward as the terms of peace, i
e has been on his majesty's part, npeatedly
s called for, as often promised by tie French
e plenipotentiaries, but to this day nas never
j yet been obtained. The rupture «f the ne
t gociation is not therefore to be ascribed to
e any pretensions (however inadmifjble) ur-
1 ged as the price of peace ; nor to any ulti- j
r mate difference on terms, however eSorbJtant;
- but to the evident and fixed detarnination ti
- of the enemy .to prolong the cmteft, and 1
1 to pursue, at all hazards, their hostile de
r signs against the profperi'ty and fafety of (t
r these kingdoms.
While this determination continues to
s prevail his Majesty's earned wishes and en- u
- deavours to-reftore peace to his fubjedls must a
r be fruitlefs. Bui hisftwtimgets remain un- A
- altered. He looks with anxioits expefta- l a
- t:on to the moment when the government of r t
- France may frnjw a difpofitic&h and spirit in j,
s any degree correfpoßding to his own. And
s he renews, even now, and before all Eur* P e
t the solemn declaration; that in spite of rc
- peated provocations, and at the very mo- I
; ment when his claims had been ftrengtherted
- and confined by that frerti success, which by
: the blefiiug of Providence, has recently at
f tended his arms, he is yet ready (if the cal
z amities of vVar can now be cloled) to con
: elude pe.ice on the fame, modfrate and equi-
- table principles and whieh he has be- -
- fore proposed: the rejec\ion of such terms
: mull now, more than ever, demonftrace the o
- implacable animosity and infac'abie ambition 1'
- of those with whom he has to contend, and I
: ! to them alone must the future consequences
tr of the prolongation of the War be ascribed. p
r It such unhappily is the fpii it by which '
1 they are ftifl aftuated, his majesty can nei-
s ther hesitate as-to the principles of-his own g
1 conduft, nor doubt the fentiments'and de- e
t termination of his people. He will not be '
s wanting to them, mid he is confident they
. will not be waging tor.themfelveft' He has 8
, an anxious, but a sacred and indispensable u
t duty to fulfil: He.wiJMifcharge ifHvkh re- tl
i solution, toiillancy, ftaqjmA. Deeply ti
; as he must regret the cofltiimimcc «f .a War P
- so deflruftive in its and so burth- v
! enfoine even in its fuceefe, knows the
: charafter of the brave people whose "
mterefl arid honour are entrusted to him. ~ n
- These it is the firft objeft of his life to main- j
s tain ; and he is convinced, that neither the
- resources nor the spirit of his kingdoms will n
) be found inadequate to thi&arduous contest, ?
- or unequal to the importance and* value of !'
• the cbjefts which are at, stake. He trusts,
- that the iavour of Providence by which they ] ;
: have always hitherto been supported again ft J
- all their enemies, be still extended to o
1 them ; and that, under this proteftion, his ''
1 faithful fubjecis, by a rcfolute and vigorous "
I application of the means which they poflefs,
will be enabled to vindicate the independence j
■ of their Country, an.d to refill with just in» e
t dignation the aliumed superiority of an eh- b
emy, againll-whojn they have fought with t
> the courage and fuccqfs, andglsryof theiran- *'
- ceftors, and who ajros at nothing Ids than b
■ to destroy at once whatever has contributed
- to the prosperity and greatness of the Bri»
: tidi Empire: All the of its industry
and all the fonrces of its power; its security fl
l from abroad, its tranquility at homp, and n
r above all, that Constitution, on a
: loiie depends the ur.difturbed enjoyment of "
- religion, laws, and liberties r
: Wejlm'mjlcr, 08. 25, 1797.
1 LONBQNt November 7.
The Dutch Admiral Story-is £ai<i to have t
- been atxefted at the t
: The French and Venetian fleets have fajl
- ed for Toulon. The Dutch admirals, on
• Saturday, accompanied, by Earl Howe ard
; Lord Duncan, attended at the Admiraltj, c
and were introduced to Earl Spencer. t
of 1 On Saturday at 1 o'clock, admiral De j
the Winter in company with his vice-admiral, I
of . and M. Vandyk, a Dutch merchant paid |
at- a visit to the Bank of England, in Order to j
nit view the different o!Jlces. Several of tile •
lu- Dire<Si>rs, who wire apprized of their io
;b tention, were at the Bank for the pnrDofe
ice of attending them through the various de
hll partments. The multitud* received tliem I
id- with ifubriunded plaudits wherever they '
jc- went.
to Rear Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson is so {
fa- far recovered from thelofs of his that ' 1
:h- he will hqiil his flag on board the firft ship
11- which is ready to receive him.
'e Three per cent. eons. 48 7-8. l'
S Xije <]sa?ctre,
■ c ; PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVF.NISC. 'JAWART 5. '
A letter from London received and pub- fl
lifhed at Glasgow, Nov. 9, fays, a
" It is a current report here, that the
n " French had refufed to treat with the Ame- "
"" rican unlefs they would, as
r " a preliminary, annul their Treaty with Eng- f,
land ; and that the Commiflionera having it
I no such powers, had, in consequence, been
' ordered to quit Paris."
Q - tf
rt The Redaiftenr of the 19th, conta'ns a
long inveftigatiou of the nature of the dif- j ; t
e " pute fret ween the French republic and the ;in
15 United States. From America, negocia
ted in 1794. From the decided language ''
which it speaks on points that ate immedi
, a tely to become the fubjedl of diplomatic '
ll investigation, in may be inferred that the "j ° c
v Americans mull make great concefiions be- . m
' fore they can appease the French govern
~ ment. The event of this dispute mull be th
of serious importance to this country, be- n<
cause the coneefTion demanded from the A- f.' 1
" mericans must be a renunciation of prin-
tiples of th«--treaty of and iu - pre- f"
jC portion as the demands of the French are bi
admitted, the pn'vileges of Great-Britain
mufl be facrificed. (London paper.) bt
d Jt m
General Kellerman is deprived of hit com-
e mand by an order of the Direflory.
CO
y Barthelemy ; with the other Exiles from al
> France, arrived at Cayenne the 12th No_ ur
y vember last. ' ' to
n _ ha
r Extras of a leetcr from Havre-de-Grace, ™
" dated Nov. 4. The decree proposed refped\
} ing the expulfton of the nobles is fvfpendcd; as
it was like to produce great d'iflurbances in in
" Frances. to
5 " All the emigrants andpriefls who had re- w <
turned to France have been arrefled, tried and
put to death without mercy.
" " Peaet with the Emperor is it Infl conclu- m
ded, and a feflival has taken place all ever the
Republic. '
1 "An army of 200,000 men had been decreed to
' to invade Great Britain. It will be called the an
army of England• General Buonaparte is ap- tr<
painted commander but it is said, he will not
" accept. France has at this moment 55a,r00
soldiers and 22,090 officers in aSivity The P°
bufinefs of the IVrjt Indies goes en baaiyj' aH
i
C O N G R ESS.
• HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
J an
y THURSDAY JANUARY 4. of
Mr. Gregg moved that the report on the pe- f°
. tition of William Alexander, made at the lafr
. ft ffion, be referred to a committee of the whole, oil
Ordered for Monday.
Mr. Venable presented a petition from Buck 1 - f~l
ingham county, Virginia, praying for an ox
-3 ■ tenfi mof tlie port road : and (vjr. . I-'ofter
e one from New Hampfhlre to the fame effeiil.— Ti
n Referrtd to the committee on the p,ilt offLe and fu'
1 post-roads. re (
s Mr. Sprigg.faid, that by a saw of t jj
paired in 1759, the remilation of pilots was left Du
te individual ftsrtes. Mdch inconvenience had j
-1 arisen on this accoynt from the laws of "
• different states, particularly from those of Vir- ce
n ginia and Maryland, which catifed confiderablc
t mbarvaiTinent in the Chefaoeake .nd Potomak. St
e To remove this evil, or at leift to call the at- (h;
tention of the honfe to that he propuf-f
«d a refolutien to the effeil : cu
" Kefolved, that the committee of commerce r
e and manufactures be inflrufjad to inquire into °,
■ the expediency or inexpediency of making fur- 1
y ther proviG >ns in ths law far the regulation oi
r pilots, arid that they report by bill or other- tic
j wife." —Agreed. • to
g Mr. Harper reported a bill preforibitig the ] O ,
mode of taking evidence in cases of contested n,:
e eleftions, ahd to compel the attendance of wit^
• nesses, which was twice read and committed for l )e
- Monday. f>o
e Mr Livingfton, from the committee of com- w;
j merce and manufadlures', made a report on the
Detition of William Bell, at present imprifoaed re;
in this city for the non-payment of a c-nflom- ot]
house bond. The committee teport unfavora- p
'' blv to tbis ease j they hadfome doubts as to the '
Y law pasTed in 1796, for the relief of perfans /
I son&ned l'or debt, whether' it were intended to ' n
3 operate in lavor of persons impr'.foned at tbu wi
s suit ot the United States. They accordingly th
s addressed the attorney general noon the fubjeft, Q f
who was of opinion it did. Some Ieg»l deci- g (
'' fions having, the committee underffood, been
e differently made, they thought it best, at pref
• ent, not to rScomtnend any' explanatory,l aw, °'
- but to decline affording any relief to the A
[1 tioner, and wait the ifiu» of* a determination of le;
. the fnprenie court ; ss, if that deeifion (hould til
a be in favor of this ciaf« of debtors, there vrrtiH
, he no occasion for the interference of the legis
lature ;if pot, an explanatory mijht m
• wards be passed.
Y After a few observations fro'rti MifTri. Living- ln
y fton, Maaon and Nicholas, the report was com th
j mitted for Monday. w
A meliage was received from the feaate. enm- » 0
£ muntcatirg a Jbil! for allowing comperifation to 1
the"doorkeeper of the senate, aad his af!T!lant,
forthe last fefiton of ejw.grefs. Th% Ml was p'
twice read, ahd committed for to-trrrrow.
The bill for making certain partial approprij
e tions for the service of the year 1798, was
the third rime and pafTed. As was also,
The hill 'to Knend the ftveta*. ails forlsy'sg
1 defy on spirits dip.i'fed wi:i.in the United
StaKs, and on Sills. '
Mr. Dwrgfe FofTer. from the conmirte-e of A
"» cUin s, m-'d; an report on the pe
t>ion of Robert Symor.ds, who prayed for
'• . v :
5 e j coirpfnCation for hr ftrviee as » iie»feri..nl sud
n | j coir.et derinp the -rar. Hie(«eirtnii>tee flsifj
. i tint they (,'ii not find hit fenicts regiftereri :■!
llu ll> war-offifce, eM if t hey were, -Hrf tlnirti
to vould he tarred-. The iioiife concurred In ihs
•W report. i ■
a- Mr. J. WiJlJerssTuhcd up fw drndeti, tlif
ife refelinioa which he laid upon the trble the ctlif
[j. ev flay, propofiug the appointment of s com*
mittet to conS'ler whethtr the office of rornmifl'-
io«ier of the rerentif might m>t now be drffprvl-'
c 7 ed *w, h. The rtfolistion wasagreed to, and &
committee appointed.
so 'Mr. Daw fort »ie»ed the crderof the day Oil *
at | the bill pm»iding for tlie payment of the inter'
Ip eft on a c ertificate due to GenersJ Xofcii fkO f
; whichbeir.g agreed to, tile hotife wert into a
fromirit'.ce of the whole on the fubjr<J>^
j w lirh, v'tc-t- rc.i<Vf> f ; the bill, r«fe and rtjfnrtra
S | it* h wis ordered to be read a third tiale to
- ICHyrow. •
. .Mr Harper . I'lcd '.ip for deci Hon t refolntiott
wh>ol> tabfetfwdiiy be'err yrf->
today, pri ifte nppanuqient erf j^com
m ttce to in j, bill to prohibit ritiifens of
the Untied States ttom enterii it into the milita*
» ry or naval (mice of any tflirei;** prince or
>- ftafe.—The resolution was carred 46 to ai,
and a committee sf three appointee'.
e Mr. Harper moved that the Committee of the
, whole be difebarged from, a further ccmfidera
tion.ot the letter from the ft-eretsry <>f fiate^
13 inclosing a report of the oireiiW a? the mint,
;■ fnpgefting the expediency of forae ilteratioDS
5 in i's eflablilbment, to render it left expenftve
11 to the public, and more accommodating to the
depolitors, in nider that it might he referred ts
the rorumiitee nf ways an 2 mea-.ns. re he
fnppefcd it w s intended to appropriate a film
. {of money for the purpr fe-of j>jrehat>E<> bullion, ■
it was proper the bn'Jncls ihotd i go .to that com
e ! inittee. ,
Mr< Nicholas -u i(htd, before nny thiri"- was f
e done in the bufinel's, to know th.e iflue of th<
_ bill at present pending 'relative to foreign coia,
, If ii (hould be disagreed to, and the circulation
~ of foreign coin were to be stopped, he fuppof'
• |ed t would b B(? JifCefCity so*" appropriating
money for the purehafc of bullion.
Mr. Harper thought thit, notwithft-,ndijig
; the bill whu.ijihe t»etttkrosn alluded to, wai
. not yet-cjfl^ecU ypo»» he law no reafins why
the course he .prop..fed fliould ni.t bo taken,
Cnce the camm.ttee of ways and means Could
in the mean time be turning its attention to the
without reporting upon it, until he
- bill now in itsp'flage, was decided upon.
1 Mr. Gallatin did not think it proper that this
business ftiotliU' go to the committee of wiys .md
means at prefervt. The honfe ought firfl to ih
cide whether they will make an appropriate - .
for this ohjefl. If they so delerrnii.et', the j
yf twirfe, be referred "> t
o^ means. It was proper
t alio, that an cuqyiry fhwld be made (which i.c
understood it wii the intention ef agentlerain
tobring forward) whyjhe treasury department
had not carried the fortfre| law into execution,
which required except Spanifli
| dollars and parts thereof, which came into their
1 hands, to be re-coined before it was re-iflfued
Mr. G. said there would be the fame propriety"
: in fending a proposition for the rasing ait array
to the i-»mmittce of ways and means, as there
would be in lending the letter and report in
r question.
Mr. Harper knew the house must deter
mine whether any apprepriation fliould be
made for the obje& in question, or not; but
it wzs foe the committee of ways and means
r to fay how the bnfinefs could heft be done,
and whether there was money enoughjn the
treasury for the purpose, or whether
would be necessary to effedt it. But if the
fubjeift were to be difcuftsd, before any re
port was had from the committee of ways
a«d meant, it wouldJbp' used as a strong ar
gument--againit the measure, that there
would be need of additional taxes to tueet
the appropriation.
Mr. J. Wiilams wiftied, before they took
any step in this business, to know the fate
of the bill now in the Senate with refpeft t®
foreign coin.
The motion was put and negatived with
out-a division.
Mr. Havens submitted a resolution to the
following efledt:
" Refoived, That the Secretary of the
Treasury be directed to lay before this house
fuc'ti information as it is in his power to give
refpeSiug the execution of the 3d fedh'on of
the aft to regulate fpreign coin aud for other
purposes, passed. Feb. 9, 1793, and which
directs that foreign gold and iilver coin, cx*
cept Spanifh.4uJlQri and parts therof, which
fliall be,rcceiv);<J,in payment by the United
States, pfjKjrjhe coining of gold & silver ooin
of the United States,
be ' n S ""e-iffued into cir
culation, be coified anew ; and if thid part
of the law has not been executed, to explain
the causes which prevented its execution."
Some objeftions were made to this resolu
tion ; a motion was made by Mr. Kittera
to amend it, by striking out all which sol-:
lows " Feb. 9. 1793 ; but after a few de
juJt'ofv remark's-upon this motion, it wasfu
perfe'ned by OSc made by, Mr. Gordon to
postpone the till-tomorrow, which
was carried
On motion of Mr. j. Williams, the house
refoived itfelf into a committee of the whole
on the? bill fdf the relief of Nova Scotia and
Canadian Refugees, Mr. De it in the chair.
The bill Was read, and several amenduiient9
introduced into it'j the principal of which
were, one to reduce the age of persons enti
tled to land from 18 to 14. years at the time
of their entering the ttrritory of the United
States ; the other, to extend the allowance
to female as wel,l asmale refugees, who were
of that age at the time of their emigration.
At length the committee rose, and asked
leave to lit again, but leave was rcfufed by
the house, 2nd the bill was re-committed,
in order to make it conformable to the a
mendments.
Mr. Livingflon reported a bill authoriz
ing the payment of certain ftims of money to
the daughters of the late CwUnt de Grade,
which was twice read, and ccwnmitted for
to-morrow.
" Sc.pip,"No. Ill— is unavoidably ppft
, poned.
NEW THEAi Rt.
THIS EVENING,
JANUARY 5,
Wilt Tjfcnted th- favorite COMEOY of
- A CURE FOR THE HE ART ACHE.
To M-h'c ill be added*
LA FORET NOIRE.
»'J / . -For Sale, by the Package, j
For ca(h, or notes at !i*!y or o.netydayj, ( (
Buck far jr.et M.llii.t plawi *| 1
i Afr „ rtfdin 1
do. do. faraboured |>
do. Indies handkerchiefs, & | r c '
gentkmeiTs neck do. J
Jaconet chin'.z mufliri for home and the Weft
India market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs,
ior do. do printed do. do. common purple and
iliixtz (bawls.
The above poods entitled to drawback On ex
portation. Also a few fcotchcambricksaad in
afiorrnjfit cf muilin by the p* ce,
rh; whole of the abo ve being a consignment
from the manufacturers in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackbulk's j
Oll.ce, No. 641 South Second Street.
Nov. 61 aawtf.
For sale, 1
By the Bu»icaui». at hi» Bcc:re,_No Js, SSith 1
Wtiter-irtrit,
A general aflonmant of China \
W are >
Buck and coloured Sattirs t
Do. do. L*tcftriiigii ' a
Do. A*. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewi-gjiilki
I'o.perial and Hyson Teas .
l ong and ill or t Nankeens 1
Quicksilver, in tubs b
Holland Gin, in pipes e
Alfortcd Glafs'Ware, in cases a
\ hite and brown Havanna Scgars, in boxes o
Molasses, in hogiheada n
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do. a
Loudon particular Madeira Wine ai
Sherry and Malaga Wises, in quarter calks b
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts 11
Logwood, ic. &c. ft
w 7 :-tttstf 4 w ■ JOSEPH SIMS. p ,
TO LET, : »
A Front Room, suitable for an h!
Office or Courting houfc, wiih a large Cellar. Si
Any person who may rcotthc above, may (if re- ! la
-quired) be accommodated with Board and Lodg- j
in rbefam? houfc. Inquire ai no. ißaf, South t
Front, neat Fine street.
December ij. 3*wjw
Uriah n
No. «o, niV.hThird'ftrtot—ims ion sali,
A neat and general assortment of
Broad Clotjis,K.erfeymeres,Napt Ei
and Drab Coatings. also, m
A variety of Gent It nuns' faftiionabie fancy Waist- * n
coating, lilk Hufiery,»&£. F
c *eodlw
~ MUSIC."
j. L. Ltjrz, .
Treacher ot Votal ancf Music,
RETURNS the Lathes and
Gentlemen, from he a very T
liberal fipcc his reJiAihc« in this ci
ty, arjd refpe&fuJJy inftfwita w fr'iend«jind the pub
lie generally, that, in mtf Mm r#qu«ft
of some of his bfc has opened a Mufica]
? ch«ol at his houfc inSprue?'Strert No T74 t where _
he will teach or the Puno forte, Violin &c. &c.—
He deon? it unreceifory tyj enlarges upon the ad
vintages the {earner will derive Iroju *n inftituti
on of this kind; ho wuLojlly: fay, that attention n '
and zeal are much exciteu in an aff«mbly, where
numbers arc irvpurfuit .of the fame ohjevfi. His
arrar.eement is such, that an interference of the
the different fcxe« will be avoided. Those Ladies
and Gcntlenun who cannot make it convenient to
utteod at his school. he wHI wait upon at their
houfcs.—Applications will be thankfully reeeiv- -
el at his hvuk, where his terms and farther parti
culars may be known. m
Dec. 7. *jweod
Elnglifh Grammar,
The ft con d i jit ion, with improvements, dy
AD At J ] El) to the different cbffcs of learndrs;
Tin «mtamlng rules and ob- (ju
feryatums for alEfting the more advanced .(Indents
to Write with perspicuity and accuracy,
• By LTNDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication if much merit,and fully
anfweta tha profeflions in the Title. The appsn
dix contains i'ome of the best rules for writing «-
legantly, and with propriety, that we recoiled to .j
have seen." i n
Monthly Review, July 1796. e< j
" This Grammar is, on many accounts entits3 w
to coiqmendatory notice, its materials have been foi
carefully and judiciously fele<f)ed ; its araangement of
is diftind and well adapted to the purpose of in- vr
ftru&ion and its eipreflion is simple, perspicuous Pa
and accurate, &cu" ful
See the charaHer at large-in the Analytical lu l
Review, July 1796. j®
English F.xercifes,' in;
Adapted to the Grammar lately puhlilhed by au
Liodley Murray, confining of t xoqiyjificsnion of
the pari? of ftx.deh, orthography, ° n
viola'i..:nof ti.e rules of fyn£^,defect, in punc- '
and violations of ttov ' ules refpeAuig
perspicuity and accuracy, dcCrije'i-for the benefit an
of private learners, a- well as Tor tlteufe of schools. u s,
"W« have bee* much ple*Wf With the pcrufjJ ei j
of these Exercise,. They occ*py wit 6 diftißgiultt- on
ed excellence a mofl important place in the feitnee m;
of the EngliCi language; and as such, wp can mi
•warmly recommend them to the Teachers of in
Schpo's, as well as to »lf thofc who are deftrons of tei
atmicintj correAncfs and prtcifion in their native ph
tongue." ln
Monthly Re-view, Jnly 1797. th '
The above Books are for sale at Joscru & La^us
Ckuksiianks book florc, No. Bfi Aier>ret llrcct. -
December X. ' " "gTapiaw".
For sale or to be -grbtin'd- B ''
rent,
, A -valuabie Lit of ffrounJ ; E,
SITUATE on the nortli-eiftcorntrr of tVai
mit an l Fiftli flreets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fiftyrone feet front
oh Wllu'ut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; (here are at
twofrrtall two (lory hriok houses, and a •
number of small tenements thereon. th:
Aj/o, for Sale, thi
Two three story Brick Houses cli
With ■convenient (tores, wharf, &c. (ituate on
Watcr-ftreet, between Mulberry aad SatTjfras
streets, containing in front ou Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eafl
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. 'l'htie houses
ive the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and arc a very dtfirible fixa
tion for a merchant, flour fad or, or others who
may have nccafion for storage of goods. This
proi>erty will be fold on very reafonablc farms '
forcalb. For further iniormation apply to the
piiqttr.
jMr ij. m&wrf i~
The History of Pennsylvania, *
Dv ROBERT PROUD,
now in the pre(i, and will he publifiied, |
A with all convenient expedition, by Ztcii.i- j- v
R■ A n PoutsoN, jun. No. 80, Chelnut-ftreet, ter
PniledeJpliia, where fiibfcriptions will continue frc.
so he received, and at the Philadelphia Library, (
ac- ording to tbe printed until the tiol
w rk it ready for the a:i.
July 18. aawtf
{ The Gentlemen who were re
s, j quefitd to obtain in thefev?i al wardt,
&c. to tl.e petiiion adilrtfiid 1o the Sclefl and
Common Councils, "n tfie lnbjefl "if watering
the city from a grant! Meftrvoir, will bepleafril
" to hive their intert.fting trull completed againil
next vVediitflay jfterno«n ; wlicd melfeugers
« ill wa> oa them for the purpose.
eft SAM. MACAW, Chairman
f«, • of a Meeting of Citizen,,
nd Jnnuary s.
60 Dollars Reward.
X
an
RAN .AWAY fr®mthe fuhfcriher» on the 14th
o( December, 1797, a N gro Man, about 22
years old, by th: name of Cato,he is about 5 feet
( > 8 7or 8 inchcß high, nii4ling well proportioned; he
ha«a very coArilc voice, his tare teeth ftar.ivcr/
fir apart; there were out or two with him—l
cannot rightly defmbe the (.loath* he took witb
him, for he toyi, twt> car. tbftefuits ; he h*d on
til when he went away, a pair ff kcrfey trowfers, a
wurn drab coloured coat, a half worn wool
« bat; he took Avith feim four very good ihirts— I
he has made for Philadelphia or the Jtrfey*.
Whosoever takes up taid negro fo
that the owner may get him (hail have ibt
above reward r paid by mo, JOHN MOORE,
Living in Still Pdni/Kent county, Maryland.
January 1. 2<iw
Ran away the 25th Qf Decem
ber, 1797, a Negro Mao, about $ feet 5 or 6 inch
es high, of a yellow complexion ; when spoke to
and called by hit name he las a quick {harp look
out of his eyes and flu-ws thi white of them very
mveh ; has taken all his cloathes with him, which
are, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and clnfe bodied coat, a lhiped v. ft, nankeen
breeches, sdk (lockings and ruffled (hirts, and a
number of other eloaths. Th«faid Negro unier
ftaads farming, and is a good shoemaker and car
penter ; he can read and write tolerably well—lt
is likely he may forge a pass. Whoever takes up
1 said negro and fecorvs him, so that I get him, (hall
1 have Thirty Dollars reward, paid by the fubferiber,
r. j Sosahnah Mioroiio, living in Still Pond, Mary
•- land, Kert coonty.
| N. B. The above Negro is 19 years old.
h ' January a 6t
FOR SALfi
- By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front ftreete,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches, jitfb, a general alTortment of Took,
t Biles and Materials, .confiding of Clock Move*
nients, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and itrge work; Cells, clock and watch Dial,,
Springs, Hands, Glades, Punice Stone, Emery,
Rottan Stone, Cat Gift; bench, (land anrf tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
Apprentices Wanted,
novemlc 3. flttutf
TO BE LET,
1 And poJVflion given the ift fanuary,
r The.House No. 107, Arch-street,
Ntar the corner of Third Street —Tor further
particulars, enquire as above, or at No. 83, Vine
Street. 1
December a 7 dtf
; • _ y
■ Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cherts of excellent quality, For Sale, cor
[ ner of Second and.Pins streets.
December a 6. edtf
; Bank of North America.
' THJE Stockholders are hcr«by notified, that an
t eledion for twelve Dircftors,' for the ensuing year,
will beheld at the Bank on Monday, the Bth of
January next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cajbier.
December 11. ■ ■ AsthJ
Lodgings Wanted,
Furnilhcd or un(urni(hed for a G—ricJiian, La
dy and servant—two or three genteel Rooms and
; iGirtft ; fit dared South Market Street—En
. quire of the Printer. •' " ' »
1 Dec.- a?. *3t
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propafrog to contrafl hii busi
ness, aff«rs this Ellite for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Bnreing a very good grift
' Mill, with two pair of (tones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
1 were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
1 for this State. —There art about two thousand acres
t of Land, one half of which it under wood, the other
- very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
s Palturc. The Cannon lately mannfatlured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
/ luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 3 2 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
t - manufafture, and a place of arms lying in the (late
of Conneflicut, and only 30 miles from several land
' ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can relutt fr»m a plenty of water issuing
' from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
1 and which may be converted into a variety of other
• ufeful purposes. The purchafor Can beaccommodat
-1 ed with all the ftoek and utenfila, and have polfeflion
- on or before the fitfi of June next, and preparation
c mav be made in the mean time fcr going into Blafl ira
-1 mediately thareafter, (or every pait will be delivered
f in good order, with foinc coal. Ore, inc. See. For
f terms, applv to Mr. loreph' : Anthony, in Pbiladel
, phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the ReprefentaMvel
in Congref; ior this Stale j Mr, David Watciman, on
the preraifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
, WILLIAM NEILSON.
1 • gswif
1 his Day is Pub lift ed^
. BY Me(T. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
other Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on Wove paper, and, fiat,
pressed,
Dy John Thompson,
t A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
J The Constitutions
1 'Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
clafling together their most important prOvifiohs,
under the several heads of admiaiftration ; with
Notes and Obfcrvations. . *"
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Soutb-Caralina,
, L I. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
. United States.
] Dedicated ta thd People of the UnitedStatcs.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa'-
( per, at 3-4th«of a dollar.
; Davis's Law Book Store,
No.' 319, High-Street.
r GEORQE DAVIS,
BtING busted for fomr time past. in prepara
tions for removing intohis prulent houfc.ha*
been under theneceffity of postponing until this day
informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
Che United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
ti rmsthat he trulls will rntitlehim toth»like pre-,
frveuce he has experienced for leveraJ Years past. '
1 Catalogues, combining the most varied collec
tion ever imported i.lto this cmntry, are printed
and will he delivered cu applicaticu.
Juiic 17. aaw
j' '
For Sale by the Subscriber, ;
10 baksCofluS j
id 40 do. Eaftas
ijj II do. Mamoody
r«l »7 do. Chinrz
ill 7 do. Tookcry
rs * io. Gorahi !
aj do.
5 do. Check Stripes
1 do. Guzzh
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
25 pipes Sneii particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage T 795.
,K MORDECAI LEWIS.
22 _pe«mbcr 5. 3UW4W
£ Imported in the brig Eliza,
r/ Capt. Hastie,from Bourdeaux ;
~\ tWt in Cases of a very ftiperior quality,
tS Whjte Sauterne Wi"c in Cases,
)ii Olive Oil In balcets of 12 bottles each,
1 1 tt'hfcc au coloured Kid Glove,
ol do. -dp. Silk do.
-I A pipes of Boufdeaut Brandy,
rsr Stilt by
Co JAMES I ATIMfiR, jnn.
>e r/l,South Wharves.
Who has also for Sal*,
'• A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
- d2w
- W A" N T E D,
I- 4 LARCE PARCEL OE
° Scantling and other Lumber,
y Suitable for House Building ;
£ AlfoaquantityofStone& Bricks,
n lam ready to enter into contracts for the a
a bove articles —ajreafonable time may be allowed
.. for preparing them ; and ca(h ihall be paid either
. in advance, or upon tbeir delivery, as may be a
t greed on.—Apply td the Subscriber, House-Car
p pentir, Lombard-ftrset, No. 2.
" John Crean.
> December 19, d6t.
THE AM ERIC JX LADIES'
POCKET-BOOK, for 1798.
JUST PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No. >7, fccond-ftreet—containing
> A N elegant Fiontifpie. Eof the Marquis de laFay
[ J~\ etie, and bia Jfaifiiiy, in the caltle of Olmuti,
, with an iHuftra:ion ; being en account of the princi
» pal events irXthf public Jjle of tKe Marquis, with a
4 fkctch of ike Pufferies ot hiigfelf and bis unforturwtc
8 A complete Almanack— 104- ruled pages
, feu &c. alfo,for account j
, of ni on le* paiii and received (or everyday in the year
1 a tmvkeiing and o'.htt uieful tables—general mect
. ingb''of f'iehds—Lift of births, deaths, See.—new
count!y dances, poetry, foogs, enigmas, &c. &c.
ALSO,
The Gentleman's annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1/98—containing an Almanack ; ruled pages
for mtmonndums and ca(h account ; Duties payable
on go >da inipoited into the United States, Cullom
> oufe fees, &c; {lamp duties, 10 take place after the
3 1 ftbec« mVer; a lift of the poll towns and cross-roads
: in the Uuted grates; a variety of ufefal tables, and
ofher interring matter.
W. Y. BIRCH, constantly keeps for sale, a general
aflbrtment cf Merchant's account Books, and other
ftat oriary goods, and makes to ofd-er books of any
fire , and ruied to any pattern.
Elegant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the
Weft-lndieJ.
Hair arid leather Trunks—Playing Cards, Englilh 1
and Americai. Dec. iy—-* %t. j
p T I C E, ;
ALL perfotrs concerned are hereby notified, '
that the fntfcriber intends to apply lor a re- 1
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of 1
Stock in the Btnk 'of the United States—He for*
■ warded them index tiWf nf' aletfer Sffirtfcd- lib '
John London, by the (hip Bacchus, c»pt.
George, whidi left this port in June laftfor Lon
don. But that lhip having been captured on her
passage and fer.oto France, the above letter and tn
clofures have faikdin their deftinatlMLLj ______
Three certificate, viz. *j
Nos. 26325, 46326, 26327, each for t
four (hares, dated January ift, 1797, and '
issued in the name offlenry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great fr-itain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, nmjcwbzr 8, 2aw6w
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. Rio Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recur to the' only
means of becoming perfeft in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
lifting of upwards of 1250 volumes, the befl cal
culated to afford either ufeful inllruilion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be feed at every book-feller's
m town. (
N. B. All tranflatloiis from and into the French, '
English and Spanilh Languages, executdd with ac
curacy and dispatch. eojm two. Ij.
COLUMBIA HOUSE ~
Boarding School for young Ladies*
MUS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
uresnd refjjefl, re.lurns her sincere ac
knowledgement for tki;libtr»r encouragement
ftie has received during four years refidenceis
Philadelphia; awl aituraa.her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (hehaani.idc a fuptrior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
fcholari.— bianch of ufeful and polite 1
«4ucati»n i« partfctil&rly attended to by Mrs.
Gwombrtdge and matters excelling in tbeir 1
refpe hre prose Ifi 6n j, 3
Corar of Sj»ruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, r797. Jimftf i
Thefituatien is perfectly healtky ; andmade '
, more agreeable by an extetifiv# garden and lot
ofground adjoining the house.
Seleft Subscription Balls. t
NEW ASSEMBLY ROOM,
South Fourth street, between Chefnut an J Walnut v
ftreet^,
TiyTß.FßANClSrefpcdlfully informs the fubferi
-1 Z" 9to a^ov - that the firft vvjll be
on 1 uefJay, the id of January, 1798.
' * names to the Sclefl Subscription Balls ,
will be admitted, by application to Mr. Francis, no. J
70, north Eighth ftrcet.
Terms of fubfeription— cnh fuhferiber to pay /■
rive Dollars, which entitles him to a Gentleman's
; licket, and cards of admidion for two Ladies, to V
each of the four Balls—l he Balls to be held every ,
Other Tstfday. t • 1
The number of fuhfcribers io be limited to forty.
Sublcribers' Tickets w.« be-ready for delivery "
on SaturdayiAe 30th inft. '
Mr. Franciis teaching (or Wiyount»
pupiis sre llinrfdays ants Batui days from 3 o'clock t
111 the alt. rnoon till 6, and from 6 till 9 for those
. of a more advanced «gc. Private tuition either at °
- the A fie mMy Room, or at his House No. 70 "
I Nni tli Eight 3trtet.
N.B. Due notice will be given of Mr. Francis's .
second PraAiiin? Ball.
' DCC ' dt2dj C
EOR SALE, a
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, abom 400 weight, iu
good condition, and would answer the pnrpofe of ]
a country printer as well as new.
Fitq'iireofYn-: Printer, nev. 30. r
j PEALE's M'Useum.
'"P'HIS valuable repoficory of thr works of Na-
X. ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the unjerilanding, i>opned daily, as
usual. It (lands in an airy and healthy fituatiwis
and free from the epidemic that at prcfent afflicts
the city; jt may, therefore, be frequented ttath
the greatest fafety.
As an Ar.'Hleiqent, the study of Nature is the
mud rational and pleating : as a Science, the most
sublime and ioflrpilive. ft elevates the mind and
expatidsthe heart. They
,01 ■< tVho/n Nuturt'i wrh can charm, with God limftlj
u Htld toavcrfe"'.
Many interring add'tions have lately been
' made to this Muhmn : and the feathered tribe,
containing a .variety of the mod rare and
■ fubjeAt, s» 'now very advant*«budy arranged.
Waxen figures,o/ Men large as lit'- ffome of them
calls ftoni nature) are here drtffiedin their proper
habits, and placed \i attitudes cbariiSeri.itic of their
refpeftive natitfns. Here may be .the Norfji-
American Savage, and the lavage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Gentle
man—the sooty African, and tile KtmtfumJale—;
with some Natives ol the South Sea Island*. I'he
immense variety and interesting whi?h
this Museum offers to the view-, ma/ bcfewihut
oannot he described with full eff«i!l.
0" Price only i-4th ®f a dollar.
Seyt. 28. law
New-Theatre,
December 11, 1797-
'j '"pHE Managjrs particularly request the con-
I. currence of the public in the abolition of a;
custom, which has hitherto obtained, of givirjg a
■Sj way or difpoling of RETURN CHECKS at the
a- Theatre.
Ed They are aware that gentlemen are unconfuidus
er of any wrong done to the interest of the inftitu
a. tion by this practice, from a general, though rajf
ir. taken idea that Checks are the representatives of a
right to so many feats in tke Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at wiU ;
when in fa<si, they were never intended more
than tokens by which the Door-keepers arevcnablcd
to afc&rtaia with the least trouble to tti£f>qrtj?s£hkt
they tbemfel'ves have been before in the Jfheatre, or
p;iid for their admiirion.
Independent of the injury the Managers fuflain,
such a pra<slice encourages a croud of idle hoys and
other disorderly ptrfons to surround the doers of
the Theatre, to the aoi ruption of their moral* and
Y" the great annoyance of the Audience.
c f' It has also been rfaefomxe of of no in- j
magnitude; one is, that famctimea
a very improper company is by these admit? '
ted ; and the other, that owin A to Chock? pacing ;
itjto diftt>neU hands, they have been l'requenaly
ar ! counterfeited to a large amount f<Jr t|ie purpofesof
I Sale.
w 1 This statement will, it isrefpedfully hoped, in
j duce the Public to discourage such a traffic : and
i the exertions of the Managers will, if thus afliltcd,
;r, ehfily ppove adequate to its entire abolition.
es WIGNELL REINAGLE.
'' e December 13 iw
he Musical Inftrumcnt Matiufattory*
n 167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARNfONY.
ai HARPER,
er TNFORMShis friends and the public, that he has
ty X now ready Tor sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
ae pedals, patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
stop, which for of t6uch, briUiancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conftru&ion, the
ftiperiority of which,heifatters himfelf, a i]ngle tsi
— al will convince the unprejudiced judg<?—As they
?re manufadured under his immediate infpeAion,
j f of the very be 3 seasoned he oan fell 011
3 . reasonable for Cash. Instruments repaired,
,f tuned, &c.
v N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex-
change for new.
November 18. 2aw2mo.
Samuel Sc Miers Fisher,
>" ARE NOW OPENING,
At tlit.it" V." jr. L.H.. r ; >r 1 . fl frf f||
affortn-.ent of Wooltii and other goods, Suitable to
ir the season, received by the late arrivals from Eng--
d land.
._ 77' rv have also for Salt,
Lisbon
TeneriSe C , • ~ r , n
Sherry, and ( P'P Cs . hhcl3 - » r - d quarter cases-
Port Wines, J
AlTorted tjueen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo- 23d. dlw^taw^w.
, r City of Washington.
S CHEME
1- Of the Lottery, No. 11,
ie For the Improvement of the Federal Ci/y.
s A magnificent dwelling-house a 0,090 dollars,
& caih 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto ij.ooo & cafo 25,000 40,00 m
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 JOjOon
1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 :o,buf>.
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10.000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,000 ic.imJo
C_ 1 calh prize of teik'ooo"
» do. 5,000 each,arej « 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
»o do. 500 - - ro,ooo
00 do. 100 - ■_ - " ioj&co
joo da. ,<o - - 10, poo
r 400 do. 15 • 10,000
! r Xiooo do. ao •gg »Oii6|o
' 15,000 do. to - 158,000
r 16.W9 Priies. .- A
ij,26i HUnki.
50,000 Tickett, at Eight Dollars, 400,^00
' N. B. Tofavour thofewho may take a qnan
' tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will' be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
bot OKI :
And approved n.tes, securing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
c be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpccimen ef
e chepriv-wc buildings to be ercdled in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful deGgns are already
' leletSod for the entire fronts on two of thepublk
' fq«ares; from thef.' drawings it ispropofed to eredl
two cawreand 'our buildings,as focn as por.,
y fible after this lottery isfold, and to cgnvey rhem,
* when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
0 the manneS- described in the Ccßenjc-fcr the Hotel
•' Lottery. A nett duduclion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the lyccfiary expenses ai
'' »ng, &c. and tlie fiMplu,- wißAe matki;a Mftt of
the fond intended fer td.c Naticinnl Umverlity, to,
a be erecled within tU« city of
| Therualfwuritwsgiven for tic payment of-the
■ c Bribes, ire held by the Prefidtnt and two Ditrft
ors of the Bank of Cplutnbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ot the lottery.
SjMtiirSL KLODGfir.
• s .5. Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Colam
hia.; of James Weft ft Co. Baltimore • of Peter
Gilman, Boflon ; of John Hopkins, Uichmond
»nd of Richard Walls. Coivner's Forrv. mw
(Samuel Pleafants Ssf Sons,
u No. 74, South Second-/}reef,
if TTAVfi received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
XX which thry art now opening for sale, 03
reasonable terms. Oil 27 4W
This Day Publifl.iid,
Audio btf fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner o£
Second and Chetout flreecs,
Price 3-Btbs of a BtlUir,
" Observations vti certain Documents
t s Contained ill No. V and VI of
'a " The History of the United States for
the year i 796,"
le In v.hich the charge of speculation »(rainft
« ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SecretA»y of the Tieasurt, is FULLY
REFUTED.
J ir RIT rE N BT HIM Sll r.
D This publication presents a concise statement
c of the base means prailifedhy the Jacobin* of the
,l United States to asperse the characters of rhctft
j_ persons who are confidercd as hostile to their difor
n ganizing schemes. It also cpnnius the cor*
;r refpondsoce between Mr. Hamilton and Msffrs.
| r Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, or. thefub
jefi of the documents afortfaid, and a feriei of let
j_ ters froth James Reynolds and his wife to
, } milt or,, proving beyond the poilibilicy of, a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
e was the result of a daring conspiracy on the part
jj of the letter and his aftbeiates to extort money.
t :>~J * A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor of wholefalc purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr. YoutJ*.
Auputl 1 T.
Yellow Fever and Pqltilenti#!
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oflavo.
x By William Young, BookfelUr,
No. 52, Second ftrect, the corner of Chefnut llreet r
j (Price, in hoards 2 7 I 1 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine .American wove medium
s Paper,
; A VIEW
, Of the Science of Life ;
1 On the principles eftablifned in tha element
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
j JOHN BROWN, M.D.
With an attempt to correct fonie important eA
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
j ly felefted from the records of their pra£Hce, at
| tbe General Hofpitai at Calcutta,
p jßr William Tatss & Chas. Maclean.
To which is iubj»ine(t, a Treatile on the afiion
1 j of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
i tion i'orthe cure of diseases of indirect dcbiiit.y/
. | Andadiflertatioit oivthe fourres of Epidtmicand,
i 1 Peftilentialdifsafe9; in whichisattemptedtopfove
. by a numerous induflion of fails, tkit they ne
; ver arise from contagion, but art alwayt produ
t ctfd by certain slates, or certain vicifiitudee of
f the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
" nov.it. j l4t
' FOR SALE, Br '■ -
Joseph Anthony Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ift and si
proof, just landed
1 450 bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality '
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy blacjc pepper in bfiles
Bourbon Indigo of the ftrft quality
i High proof Jamaica ipirits
' Old London particular Madeira wine /In pipes &
do. market do f q r . calks.
New England rum in hogsheads
G'epuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti candli • and ftrain'd oil
, Pr ime Boflon beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrel* and half barrels
, Do. Herrinpin do do
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the faH /are.
New-England tow liaen
A few tons of Rufiia cordage
Rufiia feather beds
• Clover and Timothy fted in ;alks
Long whale-bone
No I, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chefls firit quality Hyson test
CawtrrarrtCcTn whnU ami half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
N vemher 8. dny.
This day is Published,
At the Qfflce of the Auiora, No. it a, Market Street.
[ Price one dollar and a half,l
A view of theconduft of the EXECUTIVE in tt>e
FOREIGN AFFAIRS of the United S>atss, connefl
td with the Million to the French Republic during
the years, >794, 5, 6,
\ By JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Plenipotentiary to the laid Republie
, llluilrated by his J NSTRUCTIONS and COR
RESPONDENCE and other authentic documents.
A very liberal allowance to-thofe who bny t® fell
again.
December 23. • «6t.
School Books and Stationary.
! W. YOUNG,
» No. Second-street, corner of Chefnut-flreet,
' TT AS now ready for sale, a very lai-ge aflort
\ 11 ment of Engiyb, French, haiin tmd Greek
> SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfa, such elementary books
i on Science, as are generally read in the academies
1 and collegcsthroughout the United States.
j lately fublished,
; Sheridan's DiAionary, the fixtli edition, in one
, large vol. Bvo price 3 dols.
, Ditto,large Jl mo price ftlol.
t Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
( writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pafleboards,
| fheftthitig ar,d blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
' blank Books, Wax, WSfers, and other articles-, ef
the bc(l quality, used in t.Ve couniing house, or
public office
i£T Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleaiot) of
BOOKS, with the price of eac'i affixed, to be had
> bv inquiring ss above. Oil,. 14 .Jawfw
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions. '
H. y P. RICE, Booksellers,
. No. South Second, and No. 50, Marktt flreet,
I TJAVE just received by the l ite arrivals ironx'
XJL London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confifling ef a variety of the lat*ft and mol
f approved Law Bocks, which, added to tfiofe alrea
r dy on hand, forms the moflextetiCve collection cv
; cr offered for fa le in tltis couptry. They thei efore
, beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
' conneiSicnsin Dubiin, thr.y are enabled to lelllrifl*
\ editions (as they have hitherto don?) at. the very
lowefi prices. The following are am»ng the lattil
' publications.
| , Ve £y> ju«'rs Reports in Chancery, 2 \C.t.
j 'Pcake'» Cases at Km I ruts ; Report*
in the time of Lord Ha-rdwicke ; Hoyer's PioSers
• FraiSice in the F.cctefulilcal Courts ; Barton's
•, 'i'r<atife oc a Suit in Equity ; TidtTt PraiSlice'of •'
the Court of Kirj's Bench in Personal Afii'cns, 1
part* Ctvnplete ; Ward's Law of Nations'* Cruise
oil Ules ; modern Reports, la vols.London edir
tion.
11. and P. Rice expeel t» receive by thpfit^ ar . .
rivil frsm Ntw-York the 6th voj. compitte ot
Durnford and Eafl's Reports, the ad part of Gil
\ berPs!.r.w of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or nea*
the centre ef the city—for wj.ich a generous
rent will be g»vn; to be taken for a year or tih
more for a ewm. Inquire of th<. p! hjter
Of.. '7. eot( -