of ct}c 0 3 a«° Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
... . By John Fenno, N 3 no Cbefmtt Street.
- " VMDn * iC^ 3 1 PHILADELPHIA: WI'DNrSDAY EVENING, '"-JANUARY 31. l?9 S. [ ,r.XIII.
CONGRESS. Ini vo:r- nnwi'n'li.Hia,. »w.. , , ' - , ~- ■ ■ - . ... . ——-—■ ■ ■ ». ■
QONG& i 5 J.
DEBITS OX ti")R£lCsf IM TEItCOU RSil
[_C*ntinned j
:_Mr. r,rait"§ ob «rv?tion4 arc r*publiftied on account
o: m , ror im them, in yeile.-
dav § G*z-tte J 7
Mr CttiiK. At this of rtl? debate
esdvyUen i inform the Commit iee ttot I do not ex
<my vhith 1 rjrj offer, w,l,
UUkc an tm.r. fTi v. upo.s he Member*, it mi :ht be
cxpeQed that i(h make fotoe a P ft 'ORY or
ii .hts Ptmr- —1 Pno 011
the tmpori/nce of the fubjett under dilcuftioa, and
in the conviftion tha' iri my duty to take the most
public method of exprefljog my oppofi ion to the
principle container 1 . in the picfent amendment Were
it not fofthefe confederations, the present Hate of my ,
health woviid itror.gly forbid my mixing in the pre-
Cent debat..
Having been preverted by indifpofction from hear
ing the whole ot the dfctwte upon the ame dmert
•no w under consider a if >n» I am obliged to de pend up
on tiis (Utement which Ha* been giVv n by the Report
ers of the debates, ai to a part, and par icularly "he
introdu£sory observations of gentleman from Vir- J
gihia, wl-io brought forward the amendment v\ htc 1 ,
h** produced this lengthv and p flio;nte debate! Thai
the d< bit-, (hould oe'/eng hy and p»fliona<e> is muter ]
of no surprize Had I been acculf m.-d to look for
of public conduft in that g-ntlemau, I
might, prrhaps, have cxue&rd 1 har as on a late and '
important ocaafioo, he esprtffed such a ftrorg desire ]
for harmony and unanimity, and in lavor of a c
pofVp'.nement of the difcuflion, to a very distant day, e
the evils that were to be apprehended from the exciic- c
rrtent of and party warmth; I fay, Mr, Chair- 1
man, if I bad calculated on th\e u-.d of what had c
taken place, 1 might have f cxp.£Ud rhat, on the mo- c
t lion of the gentleman from South Ca/olina, to go in- 1
"to lhe confide'ation of this bill, a motion for post 1
to a future day would have comt frc-m the c
member from Virginia ; or, that the piefent amend- a
ment would have been delayed to fame Future ieflion, f
when, in that 'gentleman's opini ?h, the danger from
irritation m»t;ht be less, .or harmony and unio.iT not oi
so much importance as at prefent—for 1 wtil ven ure
to fay that the present farwaid *
by that genileman, involves a pfrncipk, which, »n its 1
Very nature, is of a! others the molt likely to pr •- , i
duce excitement in this House, 10 call forth crimiua c
jions and recrimination , to bring into action ait the i j
afperityof party, to set afloat all thole p -flions whic •
have fqoften agiuted this body, and, in thort, to pr<-
ducts a political warfare of opinions, the inotl oppo- G
» lite, deep-rooted, fixed, and irieconcileable. But
_5? "whafeve? changeof circumliancesmay havetaken place, ; a
to reconcile the gentleman's change ot opinion to him- j r
ft If, as to the of harmony, and jthe danger j h
wf irritztjon, then and now, —•! do not complain ot | a
4iis want of forbearance on ih« prtfent occaGon ; nor. J y
uotv/uh'icnding the profeflSoas ot a different difpori- e
tioil, which have been made, am lat all iurpnzed at tf
£he ' avidity with which the prelent opportunity has
been seized, not only to eftabiifh a principle dane;er
eusto the very exilten«e of the Government, but to •*'
ndulge wth thofejwho have lol.owcd nim, c<
kh the moli unmerited ftifpicions, censure and enmi- P
, Nation, not only 0$ the Executive but of all th •- w
members of th;s house, who ha»e differed witH h m 11
•in their political fyiiem of atlian. 1 lav, Mr Cnjir- .
•man, Ido not, [to complain, cca.ie I w
i,m to confefs rhat lam one th >le (pr raps a ,
OTe.of a few) who have believed, at least tor some
timep?ft, that, fr«m thefta<eof part in nil ho u se, c
little was to be expected from attempts a- union and
harmony—that wa» to be obtained by con- ar
cefli.-n : I have therelore resisted every temptation to w
ijhp&ion, from conlidtrations of this kind ; and have vv
to do what I think he imereits of m
that Coredilv« so far at d* of
tiponriie, without exasnu.i >g low i' m y be 0
iy those who ge e-a:l\"di.ffer from me in ni n. 1 a
■have a so said, Mr. Chairm n, tha I wa& no't at all I t , 4
furprtyi at the amendment which u.r'>w brcught fa > s i
nor »t the pWerva iqns by wnioh it t,a» bren
introfjuccd ?r»d JuppOited, lor when, I take a wirn- l?"
fpeftive view of theconduftof opooft in, 1 find the ?
prefect attempt to-be nne other link if that cha.n of
«nfupcefsfu which was begun f >ou after rhe hs
orgenixa ion of the g,over»ment, and has been length- co
en?d out to the present moment, as oc afion prt,fen ed an
—efforts to el'tabhfh principle whxh, i/ l 'ai
by a niajorfty of this House, and by the people our
conlHtuents, niuft inevttablv, and in view of the
fubjeft," very fWtly, subvert Or mateiiaflv change the !
ftab ilbed g vemm-enr. f" 1
This, i rim ipie involves, in mv opinion, a very ;
•plain, obvi. us# and simple quellion • Shall a majority
of the House of Rep.efentatives absorb and draw to
I itfeif all the f.oweii of this government, which have ty
t>een diftiibu ed into different channels, or depart le:
mems ;or shall each deparrment «f the government ne<
be fa by the othfrs in the exercise of its
co"nflitu:ional functions ? is it not eq la'ly the
dufytof a member of this hnufe 'o defend and protest ,
otKcr departments, whitft moving in their own £ es
appropriate spheres, as it i to maintain and'employ c
that portion of power which the conUitution has in- ma
tfufted to them J This 15 a question which, though re*
peatedly fettled, so far as d cifiou ran avail to shit I d
pu»pofe, is yet one of the utmost imp rtance, and the
will continue to be, ei long as it (hall be open to dif* eac
' ctrfltw* » wWtcH 1 b~i»ev« w4l be thexaUe-Gallong .x* j M '
the houft is composed of »ts pp.'fent it embers. cat
principle is one, among mmy others, the contest a
bout which llronglv charafteriz s party in this house.
Perhaps this exprrffion> of party existing here, may ar
' give offence 10 f;>me : lam not very fo.icitous abouf a ''
the cho'ce of words ; but if I were, I profefs to be
at a lots for a more appropriate and fit exprelfioo ot td
theoppofition ai d marked coi-flift of opinion, wrivcn I
has prevailed in this House fmce I have had a fratinit, tivt
and which, I trull, will continue to prevail a»longas
rrea uses the present fb-»II b.- advocated. So exc
lorg as 1 (kali hold a feat here, 1 (ball boalt of
One ol a party, who, by every efforr in their power, ..
fha>U resist this arid many other charafterizi g at- v 4 ™
tempts. Wee I;o d uy the existence or party hce, '° .
I- should rifqae an in the very 'eeth of every legi
day's obfervaiion—l ihould ftiut my ears and eyes to for
ftie very couciutive evidence which the present lebate are
affords. It such is the and it is no fecrct out ot of t
the v/alls of this Hvufe, why deny it? Theacknow j or j.
Jedgmcnt is neccffai yto the cure of the evil; for, Sir, {
divided as we are at present, I consider it a moll seri
ous evil, and one that threatens much mifchief to the
Ccuntry. That Party does exist in this House, the tIO J?
people are not now for the fir A time to be told ; but P°* J
that Opposition is now become so fyftetnatized, the * or >f
jineot reparation so broad, and (if the obje&s pur* <?r 0
lued are the fame) the means of atiaining them so cjif- In v
fdreat, thai,the present House of Reprefeotatives cm tion
never be exprfted to harm nize and unite, is a truth \ n v
whith the people are not impreffed with,
and which it is proper they Ihould 1000 be mforrfted
of ; Ai well might it beexpeftcd that two diverging .
lines (houjd meet in their extension, as that'oien, aft- « °
ing, if not with difieitent motives, at lca.l with tuoh
opiyofue views of the fame fubj«^l; rr cn taki.igdircft
ly different course», and paruug-at the verv threlhold
0/ every measure of importance, fhouid harmooize to si
spd twite. It myaffrrtion of the cufterce of party, v»ti*
Jbould offend some, the idea of the people deciding f|j en
between us, may alaim others. By this I mean to be
uodeVftood the calling the attention of the people to a
. a« examtna ion ot our conduct, and their expreflion
; of ao opinimi, in the coeflitutiona'mode of election, e , 3
It'it time to'fpeak out : If thePe'ple, as the gen- P; e , c
tltman frotfn 'Pennfylvanii has co fidently picio
w«b hifn in the eitablifhment of the principles now j depi
eontended fat, and my conftituet»w among the # from
number lam f'te to acknowledge mylelf unfit to j cd tp
hold a feat here as theif reprcfenta' ive ; l«r J c*o n*~- eV er
v?r, confiftenily with my sense of duty, and the opi
niora which 1 entertain of its a :-«ce to the very ®
ol our constitution, which 1 h» v c f>vpinto v} a
fMp[o»t, carry it into effctfj or give it the far &1011 of ,1C * (
ni vo e— th- .am? ( :ema 's d -
vjuS'oo trom a luppofcd untiou of some ;nem
i£ bcrs o# this House 10 atUaft cniblic aitention, ihzt this
is«m admiflioii, on their part, th* thc 'peo ;e are a
ount k \ re l*} no w l " ftan dini; ih gentkrmau's
SZ 0 th " r f<y. por,, 1 ttei «<. ditf u:v ,n :tljkt , v
the riat, ot t-.arj nto the final rc'.uti If in<ieci I
liippofcci that me people credit to o.i- hit' ol the :
bare' ! d^'r and crwjtoi-i .ni, »hich have
c ex- r °" th '» »! «, »n tS.«. ,„d ' .
;
tft«g " • "> th- CK rcne of hit 1
g7"i c. j,l 4,, d - !
and He . XV CtTa tncr,lcd ' 1 c«r,,ai*iy
raoft , a heO. c>lco '*' e upo " <hc " Wart el- «
the u;za , r t ! ,
Vefe hav<, > ' P etetid 10 fa. : (hcy i ;
' '»y thafhe t Certa,! ' tff Ct 1 " ""
pre- l fce? hve ot antwe.ed ih, . ui u. e.id- ,U
V l ? he Mtnbuted so t!.« good ienfe or , 1
l«r. !..n'ndV u V d<lr< » frC ' l r t0 ,ht,rci f« c ''r "♦ ! '
Ttei t e . f j ud S'"8 ,0 ' th< m e,ve« ' <
mo e ctno oyed in convinciitj ar.d t-'orr, 1
I debate 't™,' -
V,r - do I beife,e er h J' I ''" '"r '° ,h '' objcA-ttor t
rhat Dl a, . Bllt ''"' e thal lecently taken c
tttet ■V c V' t latentled tor members of thU bodv •
: for " mc <o follow it where it « defined j \
u, I ° haveau " lfl 'C. : ce, Mr. Chatrmat, I wish :ot to |
a " d t,cl f ale 3 ct,f,sour which prder.t apr,ear- ' 1
efire S eCia ,P Mc a, ' n '« -ipproaching : ihouid it ft 1
, f a al 'fe> wtiich I pray heaven to a-cir, it ma. be tuch i F
jay, as to Ca " ' Cr :i ", * he a..d refo a r c cs of our |<l
mc- C ° Ur ' [ y ' w .'" be,h "n ot the utmoit imsortanee ! *
|ai that the Executive Ihould possess the cot.fidet.ee ol his 1 p
had cotinirymeo, and iha tholr men who have upon a 1 I h
mo- occ expieflcd a djfpofition and readine sto exert i r
in- government for i a deience and pro- n
•ofl fjx'u.dftard well With the prop).; to this i
the e i . f 11 w '■ ."ec-tttrv that their conautt, their vtew, '
ud- anJ irol ! v ' s "»«•»! 1 be explained, and freed from the
ion, ' m P' Jla "o '" w '" cl '' h»ve on this as upon lotmcr occa- P
, om tin's been heaped upon them. p
itdt I ha\c already, Ch*irman r obferved that 0
ure Konfuiered this amendint-nt a» involvin<; the 1
atd svhich hjs ntu.'l £
its upon every oc. alioii which has prdet.ied itfclf' v
,r '* > heen c mended t«r with all tlta unity and talents 0
™ £l,e :>aity,aud that Iconfidered it one, which ll
it established in the latitude contended for, "
(r _ « a|<i f undaine'tally t if nit Ufflroy the
po- under which w J e live, and which "
But te have fwotn to support. Ihe firft attempt
ice, ■ 'he eliabliftmen. of the right in the house of vi
im- ! repiefcntat;vej under the appropriating power,
B er jto exeriife an unreitriined dif, retion upon an fr
ot j a t done by the executive, within the limits and
"f- | upder the authority of his tonftitutional pow- ( -
lat e WaS t ' le "'cmorable cafe of the Britilh
has trea{ y- 'b'* bi;cafion, they contended for
er- r '.sht,of defeating an ail of the president
to - nc ' Senate, hy •Arithho'dtng an appropriation ne
-n. ccfljry to carry it into.effect The next in P r
„i. point of iinie, was on' the mint eftablifoment, ru
-t whereafter a law had pallid, fan&ioned by all
m the forms whirh thtrcotr itution prescribed, an ?' C
>r- snetnpt wa, raatle to defeat its operation by ' n
' withholding the appropriation of money neceff- S e
'O' aty to i s execution ex
' third-vid fluidsr attempt was made to de- *" e<
' sea l the execntion of the law for the building ol
in- equipping of the frigates. Another effort
to was m?de I helieve during the fame feflion, by ' n
. e » ithhold:ng an appropriation for carrying into an
a. tffeifi the law fixing the military eftabltfhment
<is oi rhe Unwcfi States fe far as relative to a troop ot '
ca «, -W4«. Pr
' a repeal of the Jaw so fir a- relative to tfiif ' eln,
,u tio >,>— the repealing law pass.d both houfts of P u
s he and was fetit to the president for t0
his confi(lerati"B— he returned it with his rea
l,e frqw of diffcot, and there mt b Lng a con-
~f ftttntionil majority in its fav .r, it failed. -Vfter a 'V
fie hav'fnpr ;*ooe through all the stages ( which the '
h- con It itution requires, and having been weighed P°'
:d an ! ennfidered, the ferfe of the legifl «ture was
:t! 'airly expitffed that the law authorifiog this j P ll?
tr .(.p of horse should not he .repealed, "but that j tiz<
l'e continue : notwithftan 'ing all ' '
thiif, md that it required two third? of hoth | ' &
hranches f the legiflatnre in this situation of the ttie
ty business to repeal the law, it was contended in an
to the house of representatives, that a bare majori- th 4
<e ty ef that body had t.te c»nftitut'onal right of flre
t defeating it by withholding the appropriation ' OU!
11 necefiary to support it, and an attempt was
ts rnide to that effe/l. ( chil
The next memorable cafe is the one now un- met
n der consideration, where attempt is made to 't
break down, delir.iy and alter an eflahlifhrnenr cin
made by the president of the United ttn- by'
tier authority given him by the conliitut on— e *et
it Ido ndt propole .o trefpifs upon the time ol fuel;
d the committee by a separate consideration of Ud*
f- each of those cases, becauft- the h«ufe are already !iou
■in pofl[effi«n of tW debate * up«»n tiu-iti, and be po a
IS cause a very few plain and fiitjple reflexions ny i
upon a collefliv; vitw of them, will show the ernr
y danger o f th.- principle, which is the fa ne in the
ir all of them, w : ien carried into practice, the life govi
c which rnav be ma-ie ot it, and the means adopt- vtm
it td to give it success. S
n If a bare majo try in thehiufs of repref-nta- be b
t. ttve# can ail as » chick mate to the president of j
» the United States in eveiy cjfe whtne in the , ji
0 execution of his conltitiumnalpou'ers, he 'pn 1 ! _.
5 have money to give eflei't to his acts —if this ce "'
J fame majority can defeat tht operation of a law und
, t solemnly fanctionod by tiie three bi inches of the moii
y legislature, •'he.n tliat law (hall require money ncr 3
o for its execnti nc(an i >noft laws or importjnce n(
e are of this (kfcrijitiatt), then fir, is ey ry branch r(); S
t of (he government brpugh at the feet i>f a ma
jority of this fumle ? Away tnen with the boast- c
' ed independency of the different depirtrdents j 3
there is an and of thit happy ind wife t'.iftribu- best
j tion of po »er, y hich 1 fondly hopid ant* fop fcix
, posed this conlhtUi ion p«i(TViT;d—there is no
: longer stability in ou> a<Jls, there will be no long- ecut
. er confidence or set urjty in cur government. - .
In vain is it that the fraraeri of our tt nlliiu
tion intended to give fnleniiiity to our doings ; ,n t
in vai-vdo we look for ftibiuty and wi:d.>m in gtwt
» the constitution of the senate, or tsergy, deci- attra
A«» and promptness in our executive ; they are date
pfofirattd ; their powers all vanilh at the ma,tire t<)
touch of the reprefcnr*tive wand, fjur, Mr. .
&hiirrpan, ground so lmtenSble, attempts l'o ln '
hi(rdy, required every address a id managetuent
to fopoort them. The part zans of th.s inho
vstion upon our cnaftirutidn, have adtlrefird tion,
themselves to that naturaftendenry of all pub- the i
lie bo<ii«> rather tp i/icreaje'their power, tin o bi"er
he fatisfied w.ith what th-y confiiturional y po(T- j- JC | c ,
ess—they hive endeavoured to enii.i the pen- - "
pie on their fide, 6y creatin r jcaloulies and ftif- f" 1 " 1
picions of the executive, hy -Attributing to the uted
departments tlifferent iirttrelts and views tar>t,
; from those of the people j they have enrleavcur groui
jed tp iinprefa them with an opinion, that what crease
ever power is taken from the other '.branch?,) of e ' xecl
government, and added to that of tiie house at' j
representatives, is so much regained to tne pc>
!ic ftcck every attempt it refiftanee to those '
da<3rir.e»,whe b.*rw tjfcslouic a on; if ,f,r>cha<"'l
it this e,t ' iw '"eXxtttjVf mtf.ieike >'p»
net. B,os '' ho-'Uii fan,* repteteiHir.vtt <<4- iepuu<i
mju's ca " ' rrn tiovtfß<a nt .vir. Ch-£i»- v a« " lk
Jkii»- i becau " thole m-1) jre 4.iii.CJ fa ihe
cc-'. I wnbiirioo jn Jer u»-ri. oi"
'J IS j government, i)c< Sufi .hey aie <riw Jiics
1 have *tu.-c!iv Jnii (ieijjotnm, bA<u»c :>y w»h to j"
' "'( : p-tferst <ha:baitnce and naunony'tr..- j
fr, , r, ; e co: ,a,,uuon
-ji.'ti AVf '- ' £o ta * wl»->le. if g.*-''b i**k i
r.c-s- P®"* po\v„r ot u ; ui, ;<ecj>iifc
*« lit. ®"f J Are^agaiiill any,'t(ir iraile't change,
i.-i et- efl <3«*l ■he conifitutioo*:. in de, thai' thej
> Ira- ; d-ffer with the no»e> c*f the bi ef.ut j.-;ie'.ii'.n»«ni,r
,r f** y-* °«hi+ gtxkk.uen ■ftki.W.ft, v.Mtnttie wc
* • j few and Oiim-Ha|tor:aat occanon*.
* .loni' though ame i.bfcr of rte u Jjfetjf r,,: r >v leu
'u lh- ! t l' l> f s ' ' ha.»<i.oparticui.r s'tacbm?'.; to
nnr bran, n 4f t .je r.ic-t co.upaiitd w»ta .
dbe a " '' l£;r ' "Or do J lielieve tf.at any - u«e ik-oarc- j
lorm- ot government is the peculiar' lavoii'te of;
-aiely t -'e people. »Vhatever contrails may bt drawn in
—IN* till, houfc between this branch ar.d t*t other, I
ornh- trult the na'.ure or our goveasmeat is better un
■akjn derflooj with ut these walls. The oeoi.le are i
lined t ? vt T to bt " , ' or,,letl 'hat <ll ppwer emanates I.
ot 10 | , m e ™> »"dhowever diftnbuted, thol'e unto j
pear- 1 . '' m l£ 1S _ cn tr utter! to be employed lor the ; '
[ P ubl '°B'»J. are refponfibie t9 them tor the ' 1
futh Proper uf c of ,t. They fee in the executive a j I
.• our depart went as neceffarv as and ,
tan« as ra .ch entitled to their confidence and i.p.
'' " ?ny ' ;rher in 'he government. They .
exer! ?r T ° fce ' »'» ) a man Jo
pro- n'r r of making him the objea
' nts l\ltZ a»d opp.,!i .o:i. '
lews ' \ the house of
n ihe " c *, f- ; dei* the idea ot checking his pro- '
P e "blies, to thwart every measure {hat may I
proceii f.romhi/n Inflead of'forrtiicsthe hoafe r
that r
tHe quifit'on .to juls u po n the aih ps i/ e other <ie
goveramwt.tiA' have more f
tfclf ver« cnffTti.tioi. h
ent» ™ ibe«.epai-tmenn th^mTelves'-- - have in 1
bich 1,1 e executive department, a ftttr/'ty which can- ti
for, not be abuied, in the manner <f ttistleSion and ri
the the time' for which he is eleftd, in the high t |
lieh relponfabilitw of his fuuation, in being equally .
nupt tie object of puniflimeßt withevery other fer- £
. 0 f vain of the pdblic, in the impffihility, from his h .
?tr,, "ituation and power, of havin; interelts diaintS ' c '
'an •j' 01 " 'he i.iai's of citizens, mo which he mult d
fd return—but they lave another, Mr. tt
'w- "-ban-man, and not the least important; he must si
rifh ® a native Americin or i citizen, prior to J
for eltablilhment of ihe prefeit government, and ,■
ent therefore capable of taking j warm interest in '
ne- 'be prosperity of his countrj, and feeling the 81
in P nde influence of the trne American cba-
:nt, raSir. ej
all c Was a flranger to our cciiflitmion and form ci
an ® government to hear the repeated observations j~i
by m this house of executive influene, of the dan- „
eir- g« of executive patrovage, and he jealousies •
expressed of the abuse of power j pvhen he fhal; "
Je- ' ee 'he animated eloquence of gerlemen called "
in g forth (by a constitutional ad of thi president in il
;, r t the appointmsnt of a foreign miniter) to paint th
by in plowing colours the danger of lis influence es
,!(„ and patronage being extended evento members cr
-nt °f 'his houle,- I fay Inch a man, without any
lo p other information, would natar*ly suppose the f
!Jl". president to be foir.e defuotic. viceroy,
,; s entn-i!?f! wiin aoroiute power, a ad lioUisftlit <*t
of purle ftrmgs of {he nation, feeiing no attachment
for to the people over whom he was placed,; aiH an
fa . having norcfpoufibility attadied tohjs fitoatign. w ,
n- w ' T. Mr. Chairman) wot,id be his surprise, m
ter an , d ffi what would he attribute such conduil,
/, e when hf ftail be informed of the real situation. Ct
«d P ower . »nd tharatier of this man. when he (hall
■as be told that he is the rrprefen;ative of a free -reo- P c
lis P lt3 ? freely cfiofe.i by them from the mass of ci- sic
at j tizens, and fele4led for his virtus and taleftts. la
ill f ca "ice the executive of this country, (jj
th ■ 1 fes the i onbdenct «f the peop'e, when once -u
he tuey withdraw their Alport from him, there is
j n an end to it, and to the government. That at
-i- 'h' executive influence and patronage is to be at<
of dreaded under this government is toa ridieu- j"'
, n !ous for serious cojifideration—lt mybe a fpet- hi;
15 tre with which to frighten weak minds, to ala'in
children, but can nev«renter into the fears of [,
a- men ofcominiMifrnfe. Gentlemen may suppose i
to It may answer their purpbfes, if tfiwehy they P ,
fir cin excite an opposition in .he house supported
by the people without, again,l the exercise of mc
_ execitlve power , with such an opposition, in wi
,< such a warfare, every o; her department of the th<
,f trovernment must fall Then iadsecJ wou'd ib e 0 f
y house of representatives poffjfs uncontrotiled rA .
■ power ; then it will have fo that tyran
:s ny wh.ch !ome gentlemen fay republican t;ov- ™ a
e rrnments have a tend:-n yto ; then indeed will tht
n 'he government be changed— L.it faVli a (s ' ) l
e governmen;, and fiich a tyranny, I pray hea- div
t- vmi to de'< mi '?>e. ' no
Shall then those who r=fift this tyranny t at
" be branded with the chara&er of men wilh- has
ing to extend the executive power to the cid
„ deltrudlion of all others i Shall they be in- ha,
is ceflantly represented to the peopWas ading no
V under executive influence, as being the of
f mouth of the executive, as being the part- for
y ner3 and chattlpions of executive power? ona
* And lhall they be sarcastically called the he- inti
'I rues of the uQiiltitution ? lathis a fit time an
.j to defeminate jealousies and suspicions of as 1
; thl3 kind again ft the executive ? Are the p o f
- best talents of the country to loose their ef- Un
fc£t from inculcating an opinion that these btr
' efforts arc produced by the influence of ex- vm
ecutive patronage ? And lhall every man difp
who happen* to think with the executive, efth
; in the proper mode of administering, this ing
i government, ff he has talents fufficient to >
■ attention, he confidfered as a candi- cafi'
; date for public office ; or tafetng measures a fu
to prortifcte his eJ#£lion ? These not
; aginary eharges t, for the gentleman froir. accc
Pennfylvama '( Mr. Gallatin) must excufc voc
my not considering ais jefuttiol explanaf caul
tion, the other day, as fuEcitnt to tatc of ffon
ths impreflion whieh the whole teiior of his as 1
observations would necessarily make. If he fenf<
believed the;nifchief; wfiith he apprehended peril
from executive patronage, and of its beitlg cd d
used with cfffCt upon this, ho'jfc were dit- o-ent
taint, why oppctc the prcfeat bill on this ber
ground, which does not contemplate an en- the r
crease of patronage ? And why charge the obje
executive with making appointments from tion,
the legislature ? Why Ui» of gentlemen in virotf
this house havmg commiuions in tlu:r pock- ftou
thai -1 ets ; or tht of office, wbilft ad-
I P? vtnenting tvhich were to make wiy
it n aj;pointme >t ? Ans why go iuto a
ihe I,,c * ca ' < o i-it!on of time b»r^' v -e!'. ;■ former
a.oi' jrnd tiie appointmcnr tc i.ttcc 1
rs ,j 3 tttiujbter of this hojrfp ? No man who i
n tr> j f heard that guttililuV obfcrvatio.is, no I
man wh r read.-, them in the public prints, <
ito h*»e. They not, therefore, to :
litis ' ,,Te P*®" e 4 usuoliceii. But xvjicrif arcTfii r
inaves a.id fiihes \vtiicfi afe fupp-afed to br r
i«nt, so hands of the executive ? 1
uft- T-hc iVefideot imift have the pt;a<r ps j
wockißg .Birac»le3 with tbert> as of old, if in d
itu tV-rir diftrisutioii raove fhciuld fall to the v
lhareof any public officer vhan is sgecfuty n
for & bare lubfillence. r a
te of' P'~, fir, why the present slarm, why this
nin hpftlmy agaiuft the executive upon the pre ti
er, I sent occafioa.. Has the executive done more v
in this instance than the constitution has uu- v\
aie ; thonVed him to do ? Are we qualified to a;
'r'w as -exceeded the power r.
the ' lntru^e d to him, have we the infor- ft
the • tnation neceflary to form an opinion—may n'
• ? j j there not be information which we do not c;
and possess, and may it, not be improper in the tl
; -p- President to furniflr tis with it—shall wc de- vi
' cide blindfold, or he President, to whom k
the conftitutic n has given the right h#\ itrg di
,o;i. decided from all the information before him, fa
Hta- Siall we not suppose thatto be rightfully done hi
jro- which is conjl'itutionally done. If the house in
nay has a right to determine there (hstll be no'fo- m
,B fe reign uiiniilers, they have a right to deter- ot
mine there Jhall be foreigners, how many, m
or«. an d where.' Is the executive in that cafe th
; 0 'n bound to take their advice, if he ii, may th
.j n this house not as wtJI f«y what-thofe minis- in
an- ters shall do. This house has thepo-jjer of a]
tnd refufing the ntcelfiry appropriations ; have pr
'fj'j they the conjl'itutional right ? The President is
n,te d States is a constitutional of- ati
his cer — t^lS bouse must furnifh his support wi
adt they may suppose this officer pofTelTes power th
utt dangerous to the liberties of this house and dii
lr. to the people—they have the power to re- to
uft fufe an appropriation. No man will be har- as
nd d 7 cnou t0 contend we have the conftitu- an
" n tional right—the fame of the judges who m<
I}e are created by law and appointed by the ob
<a- President—here the legislature aft under the ma
express authority of the constitution and I \
■m create the officer ; can this house refufe of
ns rightfully, to appropriate for their sup- I 1
port ? So in the present cafe the President of
is a constitutional officer—he is directed by
ed constitution to appoint foreign ministers; of
i„ it is as if the constitution had appointed Ic
nt them itfelf. Here, as in the cafe of the judg- ftai
ce es, is no authority given to the legislature to me
tr# create those officers. The right is in strong upi
terms taken from the legislature. To have If
y the right to make foreign ministers or to tioi
hs '- dtfplace them, we must have the right of the
n't foreign correspondence and the superintend- ele;
anceofot our foreign relations or how can tha
m. we judge of the fitnefs or unfitnefs of the me
tniafare ; we must also judge of the propri- wit
n! et X of mali ' n S treaties llnce they will re- i dep
j]j ministers to tnake- them—will those j and
0- powersbrf contended for? But here rs an of- i his
:i- ficer appointed to an office not created by jbt i
la-Av—it is nowpropofed to recal or difplae'e j of
r y him ; can this be done bat by the fame au-; con
c * thority that appointed him. The appropri- dep
J ation was fixed by law, the officer was ere- in i
ie ftcd by the President -the President who was
j - judged of his appointment, must judge of a c!
e " "cal. an j
in Ido not undertake to determine, nor do con
j? I think it neceflary at this time, and in this upo
' piace, to express an opinion upon the gent- ths
ral question of the policy of this govern- But
jf ment in maintaining a political connexion was
n with the other nations of the world, or of tive
ie the propriety of an extension or redudtion judi
's of our present diplomatic eftabhfhment, be- adn
cause Ido not believe I possess all the infor- tlen
mation neceflary to a correft opinion upon trin
II the fubjeft; and because such opinion could by 1
a only be considered as that ot any other in- Th«
1- dividual of the community, and Ihould have mi.n
no effedl as coming from me in my reprefen- of \
y tative charafter. I believe the constitution dep;
- has given to the Executive the right to de- tend
e cide upon this fubjeft : the President can j (Ivli
- have the best advice of the nation, and will, rnon
> no doubt take it; if he shall at any time be accc
e of opinion with this advice, and all the in- mon
- formatiou before him, which his conftituti- on ji
? onal character furnilhes him with, that the Tlia
• interests of the country will be promoted by fitua
-■ a reduftion of the diplomatic eftablifliment; effed
i as be has the right, so I believe he will be dif- morr
= posed to exercifo it. As the people of the in ft
- United States, and myfelf among the num- the
? btr have thought he could be lately trusted gent
- With the exercise of this right, lam not Tliat
i difpofedin this exparte manner to quefiidn can;
> either his wisdom or integrity, by withdraw- him'
i ing my support from him. he 1
Nor do I consider it necelTary on-this o?- ment
• cafion, to vindicate him against a charge of and t
' a supposed resolution on his part to eleel to out r
office only such metVas (hall in the general warri
accord with him in opinion, a» -w-tbc Ix-ft OTan
Vode of administering the government-; be- fhgj-t
cause Ido not consider ibat such a rtfoluti- little
fion. If adopted, requires defence,.inafimtch meml
as 1 believe it would be juftified by common harm
sense, common prudence, and common ex- partn
perience. Nor can I admit that the fuppof- our g
cd difficnlties which have been suggested by ful o]
gentlemen in this debate, viz. °the mc-av ber o
ber from New-York (Mr. Livingfton) and ing t<
the member from Virginia (Mr. Erer.tJ are to°ke
obje<3ir;n* to {he adoption of such a refolu- to thi
tion, if Indeed, I belitved that the time thou;
wr»old tfiordy arrive, when the Executive noriii
ftould be reduced ta that fit'jation for want is foff
ad- of talentj cr integrity, emong thofc wh
W3y generally apprcve of the meafnres of goi
to a crfitriEi.#. a-j to cnsrjj.-l him either to niak
ir.vr the fei?d;un to office from a contrary d<
See fcription of chara&er as to political opinion
»ho or as the member from Virginia ( Mr. Brent
to !w* eXprcCcd htmfelf, to Imift rrTTo offi?
;its,. wto have r.o other recarc>«>-~
sUjt- SiiSU-Tjafci tL*~ -<*-setS«OW
t» ab Swg HsWtij-VA to Executive pu'wtr am
zfa £ /JuiuM co;i£dcr such an even I
br rmnrh to fee tlepLred ; then, indeed, fhouk
ve ? Ibe wiljirig to give some force to incite ob
of jedifons, but as I with not unuecefF«ri!y r<
f in"•! distress myfeif, I ■(hall not anticipate m tvl
the which I believe to be as distant and as re
ily mete as it. would be serious and alarming if
at hand.
his Nor,. Mr. Chairman, do T think the gen
re tleman from Virginia (Mr. Ercnt) has been
are very fortufia'e in the choice c 1" character
hi- which he has made to invabdate the truth of
to an dbfervntion which h.js' been frequently
-er made, viz. that the Executive had in 110 in
or- fiance deviated from fucb rule,in the appoiut
ay ment to office without having melancholy
ict cause to lament it. A* this gentleman lias
he thmight fit to bring more immediately into
le- view this chamber, which be fi>y» i 3 well
>m known, to have -been frequently alludej to,
tig during the present debate, I thereto might
rn, fafely concede all that he has, intended for
ne him on this occasion, without being con
ife fTdered his pauegyrift: I might admit with
0- much truth, that we-mve our present fituati
:r- on with the French republic to that gentle
y, man, and if it will be any gratification to
ife the member from Virginia (Mr, Breut) of
ly those who have pursued the fame political
if- ine of condu&, lam willing to allow thetu
of a participation of those meafurca which have
re produced this situation. If this fituatiou
nc is as the gentleman from Virginia has iniinu
if- ated an enviable one, if it is one on which
- we have abundant caufeto felicitate ourfclves
er then, Sir, I agree they ftiall have allthe cre
id dit which their efforts so well entitle them
e- to: if, on the contrary, this situation is such
r- as every friend to the interest, the honour,
1- and the peace of the nation hasreafon to la
o ment; then will I not dispute with them the
e obloquy and cehfure which their conduct
le may justly merit. This is a question which
d I undertake not to decide, ill the language
fe of the member from Virginia (Mr. Brent),
>- I leave it to the underftandiug and fielingc
it of the country to determine.
y Wbilft taking notice of the observations
of the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Brent)
d I cannot omit obfervisg upon the unfair
statement he has made of the remarks of the
o member from Conncfticut (Mr. Grifwold)
g uponthe fubjtftof checking thegovfrijment.
e If I understood that gentleman, the didinc
-0 tion which be took between the system of
f the member from Virginia and his own, was
- elear, explicit and intelligent: he admitted
n that checks were to be found in our govern
- ment, but that they were checks operaiiug
- within each department, he denied that the
- departments were checks upon each other j
e and he went on to exemplify- and explain his
- bisdiftinflion in a manner which could not
r, be mlfnndcrflood, but by the cor.fufed ideas
3 of that gentleman upon the fuhjecl.- He
- contended for instance, that the legislative
- department had sonftitntional cheeks with
- in itfelf; that she house of representatives
> Was a check upon the Senate, the Senate
t a check upon the house of representatives,
and the Piefident, who inthis refpeft is a
' conftituentpart of the legiftiturehas a check
1 upon both : that in theexecutivedepartment
the Senate was a check upon the President.
But hedenied that the legislative department,
was a check upon the executive, the execu
tive upon the legislative, or tither upon the
judiciary. His ideas upon this fubjeil Iwill
admit were very different from those of gen
tlemen who advocated theextraordinary doe
trine of checks, introduced into this debate
by the mover of the present amendment
The checks contended for by those gentle
man are intended to produce an eternal (late
of warfare and hostility between the several
departments of the government, that con
tended for by the member from Connecticut
(ivfr. Grifwold) is designed to promote har
mony and a co-operation of t&e departments:
according to those gentlemen's system, the
moment of harmony, conciliation and uni
on is the moment of danger and alarm.
That moment the government is in such a
situation as that it can aft with any valuable
effedl, i» the time to found the alarm, is the
moment for this minority to exert themselves
in stirring up internal war and diffention in
the departments. If I believed with the
gentleman from -Virginia (Mr. jfccholafe)
tliat such mud be the operation of republi
can govcrnmonts, I fliould then agree with
him most readily in another opinion which
he has expressed, that republican govern
ments had a strong tendency to deujotifm
and tyranny, for I will venture to afTert, that
out vX £vfb confufior,, such disorder, such a
warring and hostility of departments either
anar-bjr or defpot-'rni mii'i- nrcrfnrrr^
fhpjtjy arrive. But. Sir, I fear there* Uz
little probability, ot the appreheniicn of cbV
member from Virginia being realized in th:,t
harmony, union and co-operation of the de
partments which I consider so dcurable in
our government, and so necessary to irsufe
ful operation, so long as.he fliallbe a mem
ber of either of the departments. Accord
ing to his own principle a it will be his duty
to keep a watchful eye upon their approach,
to this point,, and to founi the alarai: and
though he fiiould he one of the virtuous mi
nority in this houic, I no doubt but he
is fufneieatly ktiowrt out of this house to at-traft attention,, and ir.it '/e wjll speak lopd
enough to be heard at le .'. by the minority
out of tljofe wnllt. If l/ouldfte strong and
alarming fyinptoirs of7a harmony of this
house with the Executive department at this
time, I might Se able to account for the a
mcsJment which is ri>w under consideration
and the style of the obfervatians with which
• if was introduces!, I might in that cafe, be
able to uudtrftand why the house of repre
fciitativts is thus to be drawn up in battle
array against the Executive.
I will now notice a few of tbe remarks
of gentleman frpm Pcnnfylv% lia, who
was lalt uo (Mr. Findlcy) and then con
clude. This gentleman, in the commence-
B roeiit of his speech, complains much of the
_ personalities of some members of lh:s house
in the prcfenl debate, and »fjJj*iard names
rr — cnllrd; h<giMMML6»~
llnej this lame ipeech in 3 ftiT* ,ot abute ana
cr'mination, but little calmtlpted. tn correfi
the n ichief he complains of,; He (aid in
one breath, th«t the favorers of the present
amendment, are reprcfeneted as wishing to
overturn the government, and in the next,,
he a Tens it is well known that there are men
in this hyiifc, who consider the executive the
government, and he attrihutefi the observati
ons of some gentlemei. to their profeffional
habits at coun r y court hars ; from the pro
ficiency which this and some other gentlemen
have discovered upon the present pccafion
in this Itile of declaration I am induced to
believe there are other schools besides coun
ty courts where language of this kind is
taught.
But, Sir, this gentleman has made ano
ther complnint, which rathei deserves *obe
laughed at than ferioofly attended to ; it is,
that we have taken up much time in disput
ing abi.ut s principle when we ought only to
' have cuiifider.d the expediency of the mea
sures propufed, and he has insinuated this as
a ufua! tr ; ck with some gentlemen in this
houf . I consider.this attempt tolrepanthe
house, md lead from the real question, as a
trek indeed, but a very (hallow one. Does
the gentleman pretend that the principle in
, this cafe must be fettled before we oan come
to the expediency of the meafiire, and that
any difctifllon of the expediency without a
denial of the principle is an express admijjion
of the principle? That to admit the right
of he house of representatives to legislate
or deliberate upon theexpediency of thepre
fert measure, is t» concede the principle
contended for, in all its latitude. But when
gentlemen arc pre Ted hard upon the real
• queflion in dispute, they thri endeavor to
elcape bv puttjfi£ it out of fight, or by nar
rowing their ground ; and for this the gen
tleman from Virginia (Mr. Brent ) who was
l.iit up, credit. He has endeavor
ed to the prefenc amendment as yet
more Imrrnlefs—as 011'y contending for a
ri xht, in the House of Repiefentijtivts to fix
the qiiellion of salary to officers created by
law or the couflitution. I do liot be
liev the mover of tbe present amendment
or theft who immediately followed him in
fnjyport of it, from the ground which they
then took, and the full disclosure they made
of those obje&s and intentions for which I
am willi.ig to give them credit will thank
those gentlemen who would nowreduce the
question to a mere nothing. Has the pre
sent amendment ever been contefled upon
this {.-round, unless by those two gentlemen?
His he right which'they cl-iim ever been de
nied? if it haslhave not heard it—havethofe
wl.ofuppo.tthe-prefent amendment,pretend
cdthat the allowances which have heretofore 1
been to our foreign minilters 'nave ]
been too high? Do they wish that a min- I
ifter plenipotentiary or charge des affairs, 1
ihc.uld hive Id's ? I have not heard i> con- t
tended, but the objtjc u is profelfed to be,
by rec'-t fig the appropriation, to • reduce t
the grajle of office at two of the courts, t
and to compel .the Prtfident to' recall thfc v
minillers at another, and not to reduce the 1
appropriation, hfcaufe the present allow
ances to the fecntid grade of officers is too d
high, and ought to be reduced. It has 0
been explicitly avowed, th?t it is further c
intended by degrees to destroy entirely, our g
diplomatic eftublilhment. But fir those c
gentlemen cannot-be serious in their declar- si
ations upon this fubjed, for they have both t<
conte ided (not with (landing this declaration g
of their view of thefubjeit) with 3?! their p
talents, for the rftablifhment of the very o
pi inciple which the opp fers of the amend- 1
merit fay it involves—One other obje& may t
be obtained by thus weakening the impor- n
tanee of'the present dispute, to wit inv a
pressing the people with an opinion that h
the opponents to the amendment have pr#w f
duced an unneceflary wade of time and 1
money, which would be indeed irfexcilfable f
if the contest was only about the favitig of t
a few thousand dollars. c
But the member from Pennsylvania, (Mr. t
Fi'idley) has made another attempt equally 1
hardy in contending for the right of the le- i
giflature to efiallifh and create the officers of <
ambafladons, foreign miniflers, kc. and the 1
manner of supporting his point convinces i
me of a truth which he has complained of 1
as applicable to others, to wit—that he was 1
not addressing himfelf to the understanding
of this house, but that he intended hisob
fervations (hould have an efFeft where the
detection of their fallacy might not be so
easy. He has read from the constituti
on the claim giving to the executive, the
right of appointing ambafiadora, "foreign
tninillcrs, &X.- and he has tline ar
gued, that as the legislature nctwilhfland
ing this general grant to the executive, hag
claimed and exercised the right of creating
« the office of judge, so they have equally
the right in the cases of foreign minitters,
See. I cannot attribute this misrepresenta
tion of the fimilr.rity of the two laws to the
gentlemaft's ignorance or want of informa
tion, for he niufl havefeen in this fame con
ilitution an express grant of this right to
the legiflaturein the authoritygiven to them
to establish a judiciary fyllem, in which the
right of creating the office of judge is ab
folutelr eSenttal ; but can the gentleman
i find any such grar,t in tbe cafe of foreign i
ministers in any part of this inilrument, and
1 would it not have beert as easy to fiavc ex
s prefTed it in one cafe as in the oftier, if the
s framers of the constitution intended the la
- giflature (hould pofftfs the right. a con
-1 tend the office of foreign miniiler is create d
1 by the constitution to be filled at the d;f«t>
e tion of the executive as circumitances and
the the country may require,
e But.as the gentleman :s conlcious he can-
Hot find any fpecific grant in the conlliiiiti
s on of the right in this house to legiDatt
0 upon tbe expediency of r> ducing our diplo
matic eftablifbment, be has availed himfelt
of a very old plea to support his claim, a
e plea th3t has been constantly resorted to to
e uphold the uioft extravagant demands, i lie
5 gentleman a(ks, has not the legislature the
n'jht nf An 3 under this
d right he claims the one now contefled and
1 may claim 2ny other belonging to the gov
n ernment with equal pretensions. As we
t have the right of declaring war, fay thoft
0 gcntlemeft, all others follow as incidental tc
~ this general power which are in a6y degree
n connefled with it, and as incidental to this
e they ha aparticipation inthi; treaty
- making povver ; they now claim a controul
1 for our diplomatic eftablifbmeut, aid may
. with equal propriety take into their hands
1 the entire fufserintendance of our foreign in
i tercourfe and connetlione. So optheir claims
j under the right of appropriation what the
- v.ar right leaves tfrc appropriating right
s takes, and thus the Home of Reprefenta
tiyes strips the other departfliient3 of the griv
- ernment. The gentleman in retnarkiiig u- 1
■ ponwhathe calls a requeft,and he mi'ghthave
, laid in many instances as an apt quotation
- 1 from a favorite author,, viz- the tendency of
> certain meafares toJ}op tbe •wheels of Govern- j
- men!, obferveg that the donia of the right j
i which is claimed in the present instance to
> the House of Repfefentatives is flopping j
one of the wheels of goveinment. If it is
L a wheel, it is a jlfih wheel'which does not
i belong to the political carriage, and which
he is attempting to clog it with contrary to i
the original design of the and I
will fay against my consent, for I declare I !
am not so much attached to the fafhionable \
novelties of the day or to new fangled inven- I
tions as to reeiive this upon tbe bare recom- i
mendation of the proje&ors. I believe it !
may do harm and can do no good—it may •
impede the motion and progress of the ve- j
hicle to which it may be attached and may j
eventually overset and dellroy it.
This gentleman has also followed the ex- j
ample of all those who contend that power |
can be trusted no where but in the House ■
of Representatives and has argued against !
the executive's exerci'fe of it from the pof '
iible alufe of it. He has contended that it
would be dangerous to give the power to j
the executive to create officers because he 1
rnight abuse it with a view to the service of
his friends, and he has quoted most of our
(late governments to (hew the extreme jea
lousy and caution with which they have de
legated the power of appointment to office,
he has also urged the opinions of man of
talentß in the convention of this (late which
accepted the present constitution, to fup
poit .the plenitude of power in this houie
under the right of reje&ing money-bills
fn this instance also the gentleman has fol
lowed the common error of ail those who
have attempted changes" in the conftitHtion
in any other than the constitutional mode.
They undertake to make a constitution and
not to execute one—they enquire wh?re
power ought to be lodged, when they (hould
be examining where ittis depofitcd—we art
not ntfw in Convention to pass upon this gov
ernment, we are not discussing the qUeilion
where the power of creating and appointing
to. offices would be bed .and most (afely en
trulled—but we are limply to determine
where it is to be found—l believe it is wife
ly pteced where I contend I fee it.;
It has been insinuated in the courfeTif the
debate, that the executive hadexprelTed an
opinion ;hat the right of creating the offi
ces of foreign mmifters, &c. was in the le- '
giflature. I fee nothing to juftify this ,
c«nclufion—The pradtice of the executive 1
irotnthe commencement of the government j
to the present day, has been expressly a,- |
gainst a concession of this right : and the 1
practice of the Jegiflature haaheen equally 1
opposed to the claim. Can gentlemen (how '
in instance, where the legislature have crea-, ,/
ted an office of this kind ? Has nof the u- 1
niform praftice of the executive been, to '
appoint to office, and then call upon the j
house not for a creation of the office, but c
for an appropriation for the -offiter. In the 1
late million to Paris, did the executive con- 1
fult this house before he made the appoint- ,
men'., to know whether we would have 1
one or three commissioners ? And was his 1
right to determine that question disputed, '
when, we were called upon to appropriate ]
for three commissioners ? Is it prhpofed to 1
qutftion this right which the Prefiijent ha? 1
thought himfelf authorised to exercife,-dur
ing the present session, in the appointment
of three commissioners to treat with the
Cherokee Indians ? The appointment has
beep made without consulting us ; and I
have not supposed it would be disputed, or
the appropriation.
But as some extrads from the speeches
of members formerly of this houie were
read to the committee, by the mover of the
amendment, with a view to (how, as I un
derstand, that the ground now contended
for by the opponents to die present amend>
men*, w;'s not taken early in the govern
ment. And as the; gentleman from Virgin
ia (Mr. Brent) has expressed great uoeafi- :
nel's and alarm to find from the reading of
these txtrafts, that the opinions now ex- i
pre(Ted by some gentlemen, are but of a
late date, that they have changed with a
ehange of views, and that there (hould be
such a want of consistency in their conduft. 1
I (hall beg leave in conclusion to read to
this committee a few extrafts from the con
gressional register of the debates and pro- !
ceedings in tbe firft congress, as a co»pleat
i
-0 refutation .A tli'ife infiaaitions. As 1 was . f
d in house « ::en tlie rxtKict3 vers 01- 1
ferod bv the mover oi t'i-: d::u-iiorue«t, aad J
e tji-y were not printed wttli a
;- , I have not.had .a ) opportunity of examin- ,
1- ib - ver, which I fliall ,
d i-fF.-r; art direclly to the p 'iat'; and ji-ovc
> incooieilably, that the prefect qneilion was '
3 fettled eiriy in the rnrrH/nt, in the firft |
cafe in which it ar<>fe ; find that if tbeie is f
l- any incoififtency of conduit in gentlemen,
i- upon thi prefeut fubjed, it. ratjier attashes £
tt to thofevvlio have since contended for the
)- right nov claimed. Mr. Craik then read !
If the txtnd of she proceedings and debate '
a on a J>ill irought into the house of repre-"J
0 for making provi'fion for the de- (
le 9I expences attending Indianttre- t
te witch bill contained a clause direding t
is that cem-ni'Tßibncrsi, not exceeding three, a
d 1 Ihpuld he appointed, and allowed compcn- f
i.-,t t 11, &c. \\ T heh the bill came under the 1
re ' cmi&foat&h 'if thi house, a member, Mr. ,
ft Sedgwick, made a motion to strike out c
c that part of the clause, retraining the num- t
■e ber of commillioners to three, on the ground c
is that it was an unt onllhutional interference t
y on the part of the house, with the eiiecu- 1
il . tive authority ; that th* right of laying
y [ how mjiry commifTioners there should be ap- ( -
s pointed, belonged to the executive alone ; (,
1 and that this house have nothing to do with t
j it. The question foi ftr king out the clause i
e after debate, was carried. Mr. Craik ob- v
t served, that the mover of that amendment,
- for ftrikingout the clause, was well known
- to have always maintained a steady and u
• ! niform opinion upon this fubje£k ; and Mr. t
e Craik observed he was authorised to fay, f
1 that a member then* from Virginia (Mr/ p
f Madison) whose opinions the supporters 1
- | of the preferit amendment, generally res- r
t pefted, seconded the motion of Mr. Sedg- J
) | wiyk, which was then the fubjeit of dif- v
f ! ctifiipfi. Mr. Crsik took notice" of a part h
a of the debate where Mr. Smith, then a (
t member of the hhufe, whin speaking upon f
1 the question, asked the house, " what was
i ; to be done, supposing the United States
1 were il: War wi\h a nation from whom ovec
-1 ! tores of peace were received—Suppose it
: j was abtolir.elv fjeceflary during the next re
- ; cess of congrtfs, to fend a minister or an
- ; epvoy to the Dey of Algiers ; would it be '
t ; proper to delar so nectiTary a business, Ull- i
f | til this house ccold be convened. ?" r
-j Mr. C. obfe»ed, the extiatSl of the law,
f | and debate therm which he had used, re- c
j quired no comm nts, but he would propose I
- : the fame queftioi now, which was then put '
r for the confideation of the committee. a
- ; Mr. C. cancludei with an expression of his
t j decided and unequivocal opposition to the '
' amendment ond<r difcufiion : observed his
t strength wai ejhaufted, but not the sub- c
> 1 je&. 1
; Mr. C. Claiborne wished to offer a few reasons f
p : for his vote oinhii question.
I He watclea ibat the House had 1 right to reftrift r
r ; our diplomat!, appointments, so fir as 1 dated to the
appropi i tiajiof money j and he w*» convinced that 3
. thc food of tSecouitry required an exertion of that t
rtghi 011 the pvfent oeofion. 1
• He was cawinced also that that part of the Confti
-1 tution which ad pieced the care as the Treasury in r
1 th# haods of he Houle ot Reprefcntati*es, had great
ly recommenced it to the people of the United States; {
and ii ever tba valuable deposit was patted with, the
■ affeflions of he citizens toward; the government
. begreafis ieffcut-d ; and tie funlier believed, >
that if it were oj)e of the political tenets of the gen- t
tleraao jjft fit down, (and his arguments declared it
• to be so) that the doois of the Treaftiry, so Har as re
lates to foreign intercourse, shall al>vay& be opened at 1
the ivcJl of the Executive, that this very honourable r
gentleman and his adherents would not long be the c
favou i e Politicians of America Hut candour im- r
pelled hi» to declare, that the faring of a few thou
(md dollars was not his chief motive in supporting V
thiv amendment. He contidered it of ioft-iitely more
mp otanceasa check to the giowth ot our foreign
Poll ical conne&ions—conneQions which he had for
fever*' years viewed as d ngerous" to the welfare of F
this Country. c
Si uated 'as the Uuifed States are, at a great diHance (]
from the transatlantic wotld, unambitious of con
quefls, andlHelTird with a government formed by the e
people, and highly pleaiing to a large mijoiity of 0
them, what, laid he, have we to do wi h the politics t
of Eur pe ? Vt i hthat con inual contusion and war
fare occjfinned by the co ftjnt dffire 'o p/eferve th« *
balance of pown, so .neceffjrt for the exiftente of "
Imall nations, furr. unded.at they are byjm re pow
erful na ion» ? These were evils wrueh called for the t
fj mpathy of. the fvieft set lings of humanity ttor dif
tiefs i but they were • vents with which we, as a na- 3
lion, had nothing to do. It was our concern to pre
serve harmony with all nations ; to follow 'he p»ace
ful i.urfuit ol our apiculture; to affo d to our unof
fending comttlrrce such a proteflioTi as we are ena'hled
to do without oppfefling our agriculture; tjut to keep t(
alool from the u»tri*«es and deHgm of tarop»n G
priwres as well as repub ics.
With this view of the ftibjeflt, he (W no netefTi v
for this extensive p)liticiJ m'ercourfe He brliev-d c
it was of no use. Was it found that when England tl
d-termined 10 dcfpoil sur commerce, it was in the v
power of dur minister there o prevent it ? Or, if o
ther maritime powers were disposed to do the fame,
could our minilters avert the evil ? He believed not.
Bus had not our. foreign political coouefiior.f been at
tended with ferioui evtls ? To what was our piefent
critical firujtish owing but to this ? What, more than
this, tended to produce quarrels with foreign govern
ments, and of courle to endanger our tranquility at
home ? He appealed to everv experienctd man, whe
thei we'had any thing more to fear than this.
But were there no further mifchief* to he appre
hended from this policy ?v\ ould not foreign poli
ti a be introduced, which might bring about a
change of sentiments and views in country ? O
Win this desirable for - mcrica ? Or would it net o
rather prove the bane of its liberty? Amongfl the
things moss to be or was h-Wev r, the n -
t-oduis}.i trof a foreign interctt- inta our councils.
And ought we not, he afced, to dole every door tl
to its entrance, as a precaution to secure
our freedom and happintls? He'whs of opinion a
that this was thetruell policy which Americacould .1
• purlu*. 11
The committee had been told tkat this was not P
the proper time to retrench our diplomatic corps. ! h
But theianie gent'tman had Europe as con- ! tl
vulfed to its contor, as disregarding the law of na- r.
tions; where t-ey Hate villainy as riding trium
phant, and where the priric!J>lti of meralify and W
> virtue had but Kw fupj orters. If this were true, "
surely no time was more proper than the present h
to reduce pnfent establishment.; for, if the tl
, times were so iniquitous, what possible gcod cou d j,
• : honest Amifrisan miniflers render to their country
1 from a refidente in those countries. D
The commnte'e had alio been tofd by the gen
• tleman from Delaware, that so great was the 1"
thirst for conquefi in those countries, that, for n
' aught he knew, a compatfl might' r*ow be mak- 3
ing to enflwve America, and he adduced that as t'
a reason for continuhig what he called our /ton- f
orablefpits abroad. lq a little circle of one of
the countries of Switzerland, on a queftidn like 0
■ this, f„ch a fugjefl:»,J might be entitled to some
little weight; but, upin th s floor,*i? was not v
I I
. surely Wr.rfhy of cohiideration. For let it bp f
loaikfcd thatan imrrietife oceaft 'eparates t!je tr
usted States trom thnfe countries j and » late at
tempt f'j enjlav: America, had produced, to ufr
an htcHneySd phrase, an awful lejfaa to the
uo» : d hojv.futu.-e attempts ot this km 1 were
t »i. . .
For I'';s oven part he was furp-ifed that this
mptio Iha i lijvii so much opposed. Provifi >n
was made for Me two great belligerent coun
tries, and there fee med robe no objeijirm to a
r». miller pleropot-.-miary being lent to Spain.—
With to other powers, lie law n« oirca
fion for our feniliji ; minillers to them.
fne ohUrviiions oi the gentleman from
Oe irgia hid had confutable weight on his
mud That gentlVmart liatt, from experience,
- informed jh * committee what look place under
the confederation. In the infancy of Our na
tional eoveraraetvt, the polcv. of lending minis
ters to foreign cuurts was.rxjuoh fone int > ; but
he tal3 them txperiencefoori'evinced that i: was
a dawgerous policy., aiid lliat at the origin ol liie
prtf-nt government, they were Jlmofl
a;fc6nti»ue<r.' i uii v. ..» il/c of 'x/k'ri
eace, which he greatly relied up, n. '
1 he gentleman from Maryiaiidjuft fit dawn,
complained ot abuse from gentlemen fav outing
the amendment; though he believed every th,iog
of this kJod hid ("ome fr im the opposite quar
ter. He afcd »'hj .t was thar told the corn
in ; ttee " tha' there are perfoni within these »i Is.
whose objcA « a«t . overthrftwt'hegovernrncm ?"
And here he yepu'j remark, Mat w.V.ii t!>e ob
servation was made, the persons charged fhswld
have been pointed out; as, making the obferva
t on without pointing out the persons, was an
illiberal »i)d ungenerous general reflet ion Who
was it that said, that the present question was,
" the government and the people on one fide,
and the gentleman froorv Virginia, and his friends
on the other ?
Did that member suppose, the favourers of
the amendment, were less independent in their
sentiments, and less friends of the American
people than he was i When he looked round
thar corfimittee, amongst the friends of amend
ment, he saw men who ranked high in the efti
rr.ation as the American people, whose charac
ters were well known, and it would be heard J
with aft nilhment that a doubt injurious te them
had ever been entertained in this h»ufe. Mr.
C laid, he believed the'time he had allotted him
felt was expired, and fat down.
The committee rose and had leave to fit a
gaiu. Adjourned.
(Debate to if continued.)
TUESDAY—JANUARY 29.
The bill appropriating money for hold
ing a treaty with the Indians claiming land
in the dates of Tennessee orN. Carolina, was
the third time and pafled.
Mr. Dwight Foster from the committee
of claims, made a report unfavourable on the
petitions of Edgar and M'Comb, claiming
lands of ths United States, which was read
and committed.
Mr. Findley presented the petition of fan
dry citizens of the four western counties of
Pcnnfylvania, praying for compensation for
damages sustained from the troops of the
United States during the iufurreftion—Re
ferred to the committee of claims.
Mr. Harper presented the memorial of
Thomas Hutchins, praying for an addition
al compensation for the services of his fa
ther, who was gtographer general to the
United States—Referred to the fame com
mittee,
Mr. Sitgreaves said, as it was yesterday
said that the rules for the house refpe&ing
the appointment of committees Hid not an
"pfy to itic-prelent cafe, it would be well for
the houfc to fettle a quell ion before it pro
ceeded to the ele&ion of managers of the
impeachment which might arifem the busi
ness, viz. whether a majority or a plurality
of votes were to make a choice. He there
fore proposed the following resolution,
which was agreed to by the house.
" Refolded, that in the ballot for mana
gers ©n the part of this heufe, of the im
peachment against Wm. Blount, a majority
of the whole number of members present
fnall make a choice; that if more than elev
en members (hall have a majority eleven of
of the highest shall be chosen; and if any
two or more members having a majority of
votes and (hall be equal in number, the fame
shall be decided by a new ballot."
The sergeant at arms proceeded to colleft
the ballots, which being done, the speaker
appointed Mr. D. Foster and Mr. Jones as
Tellers.#
Hating examined the votes, (which took
up nearly two hours), Mr. D. fofter repor
ted, that the Tellers had performed the bu
siness uffigncd them, and found "the whole
number of votes to be ninety-one, and that
consequently 46 made a choice, and that
the following nine gentlemen, and no more
were elefted, viz.
Mr. Sitgreaves 76 rotes.
Mr. Bayard 69 do.
Mr. Harper 65 do.
Mr. Gordon 62 do.
Mr. Pinckney 53 do.
Mr. Dana 52 da.
Mr. Baldwin 48 do.
Mr. Sewell 46 do.
Mr. Hofmer 46 do.
Mr. Baldwin said, that perceiving fomr
of the committee which had formerly afted
on this business, did npt possess so much
confidence as others, he should beg the
house topxcufc him from serving as one of
the managers of the impeachment.
Mr- Brooks thought it was curious, that
after having obtained a majority of votes,
the gentleman from Georgia should com
plain of not having the confidence of the
ljoufe. Did the gentleman expeft to receive
the whole 91 votes? Except a better rca
fon was given, he hoped the gentleman
would"not be cxcufed from serving. He
was aftooiftied to hear the reason which
had been given. Did the gentleman wish
the voice offeeble minorities to (hew confidence
instead of majorities? If so, his wish would
not, he believed, be the wish of the house.
Mr. Baldwin said the gentleman from
New-York had misunderstood him. He did
not fay that he did not possess the confi
dence of the house; but " that some mem
bers of the committee appeared not to pos
sess so much the confidence of the house, as
others."
Mr. Thatcher asked the numbtrof votes
which the gentlcmjt* from Georgia had re-
CCtvfd. On being informed, !, • !, aped tfcc
gentleman would withdraw his motinn
'nice he wonld fee that nooeof
house CnUre coafid * nce of the
,Mr Baldwi, said he had stated the rea
fonsi of his request, and hoped the sense of
would be taken upofc it.
Jt' P [ nckne y hSP'd the qutftion would
a 7 ueftio » could have
coroe before the house, or, which members
fhonld have diverted th«mfelves of all idea of
party, this was such an one. He Hulled
there was a general wish in the house to fift
this matter to the bottom. If be under
ftond the gentleman from Georgia, his ob
jection did not ar.fe from his not having had
more votes, but because another mcmb-r of
the committee was not j B
hi. objeihoß at thi« period, ft W,™ com- ■
P e. Ihe house had yet a furffur ballot
to
be elected, and then, coirfilU-nt with his
own reelings, he might fervZ (Vf r . p. fog
he was himfelf unw.til, and not in the house
when the ballots .vere collected, or he cer
tainly ihould have voted for all the members
or the committee.
Mr. Baldwin perfiftedinhiemotion,which
J was carried, ther* being 48 vrttes for it
A new ballot then took place fcr three
additional members. The votes having been
collected, tha tellers counted them as bef re
and reported the whole number of votes was '
91 ; but that no member had a higher num
ber of votes than 37, and confequeritly that
no election had taken place. Messrs. Daw
fon, Dennis, Gordon and Gallatin had the
highest numbei of votes.
Mr. Gordon moved that the choice of tire
four remaining managers Ihould be postpon
ed till to-morrow.
Mr. Gallatin hop#d not.
Mr. Bewail wirtied the business to be pcft. 1
poned, as by to-morrow gentlemen might
reconcile their differences of opiniou on the
fubjec*. He wished it also, beeaufe he had
a fubjeft to lay before the house, which ht
thought of importance to be fettled bdore
they separated.
Mr. Macon was yesterday in favour of
adjournment; but experience hadconvinced
him he was wrong. He hoped the bufinef»
would be proceeded with.
The motion was negatived 55 to 35.
A frefh ballot was then proceeded with ; ;
which, upon the votes being examined, prev* '
ed as before, a nullity, no member having a
majority of votes. We believe this time
Messrs. Dennis, Evans, Gordon and Galls,
tin had the highest number of votes.
Mr. Harper hoped the farther proeted
ing upon this business would b« postponed
till to-morrow, that gentlemen might have
an opportunity of underftaading each other. ■■■
The motion was carried, there being 4S
votes in favour of it.
Mr. Sewall rose to bring forward the bur '
finefs which he had mentioned; when
A motion was made to adjourn, which
was negatived, there being only 13 votes
in favour of it.
Mr. Sewall then said, he believed the bn
finefs which he had to lay before the hw&jj
would require fecrefy, as it was a fubjeS
jshich would CQnfidcrribVv affe£t~tlic feoiiiwj
of the members of the house. He there
fore mcved that the galleries might be clear
ed, which was accordingly done.
, Edward Dunant,
Mo. 149, Seuth Front-flreet,
HAS on hand, of the cargo, per Johanna, di
rect from Malaga, for sale,
300 kegs fun Raisins
I*obox-s"> R a i£ns,
150 jars j
120 boxes Muscatel do.
80 jars Grapes
20 kegs Figs—and
Malaga Wine in hhds. and qr. calks
\ S '
j.jrS*vF°r freight or charter,
said Brig JOHANNA, beipg
Vi jij&'JSfrpr a Dane of aboat 200 tons buithen.
Apply as above.
January jl. 3t
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION, ,
A NEW AMD INTIKISTINC WOtt, INTITLII,
A TREAHot
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the vario is crimes an ! mis
demeanors, by which public andpr'.vate prapar
ty, are at present, injured and endanger, i :
And suggesting remedies for their prcvtntioo.
BY A MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the counties of MJdcex, Sorry, Kent,
aud EfTex ; for the cits and liberty of Westmin
ster ;* and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
"To tbofe tvbo have read this curious ayl valuable wori,
it will need no recommendation—they k*ow its folii mfrit
—but as it bos hitherto got into very few bands in this
country y it will not be amiss to observe—so great was tit
approbation and demand in L ondon, that it passed through
tbrot la r X* editions in the course of twelve months. As s
detail of tbe ingenious varieties of fraud that tnianger
property in London, and mof other overgrown and opulent
cities, it cannot fail to nfford tbe reader great enter tsinmert
as well as injlruSlion ; but as tbe author trates alttbefc
enormities to a few, and in tbemfelves, in*snfiderab'e cauf*
es, many of which aßually ex if in all tbe large capitals oj
tbe United States, the business is brought home to cur own
doors ; 'and tbe work has an increaji *$r claim to our attcx*
tiveperufal.
To aff.f tbe h;iJ!ator unithemcyjirate if lb' human:
office of inventing crimes, and their csnfequea. puni,
meats, w- s the pa't iotif design of the author- " va &
offences, be J ays, arc tbe four re of public crimes, an t>e
bcfl method of guarding focirty agatnfl the latter is, to ma e
proper provisions, for checking the former Thfemtn
are eaftly fduccdfrom their Isya'ty who are apoflatcs JgKf v • jgj
virtue"
CONDITIONS,
f This work will be printed in a large o&avo, on
an excellent Engiifh paper—lt will be deliv«reJto
fubferibers, bound in at the moderate price
of One Datiar and a half; although the hi\ London
edition, on inferior paper and meanly bound, w
now fold at f wo dollars and a half. To non-fub
feribers the will be raised. .
Whatever encouragement maybe given by fa®*
fcription it will be committed to 'he press without
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
Subscriptions wiil be thankfully received at
Benjamin DaviesVs book-ftoie, No 68»
street, and by mod of th« other bookfelleri i» tbe
city; bjr George Hill, in Baltimore; and'bySem-
Campbell, and A. Drurr.mond k in rtew-Yerk.
j January 31..
'- m
L jfrs Of THE UNITE D S TA TES.
Fifth Cing refs of the United States :
AT TiE SECOND SKSSIOtf,
Begun and held at the Cit'v of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon-
the thirteenth of November,
one tho+fifrß~fci«n hundred
and ninety fevrn.
AN ACT
To preftribe the mod' of tal'ng evidence in ca
ses of contested eledicns for numbers of the
bouse of nprefentatives of the Un ted Slates,
and to c wptl the attendance "f zv'un ffes.
_ TV E it enacted by the Senate 'nd
C. I. Ho life of R" of the
United States of America in Corigrtft aff.mblcd,
That where any perfnn, from and after tl\e
passing f this aft, shall intend to cooteft
an jr!cfti»ni for any member or memti'rs of
the hoijfe of representatives of the United
St itcs, or to support any Inch election so
intended to be contested, and (hall be de
sirous of obtaining testimony rifpefting
such eleftio.n, it {hall be lawful for such
pe.rfon to make application to any judge of
th<*..cou: :s of the United States, or to any
i> chancellor, jiifti.ee, or judge of a fuperor
ore .unty court, or court of common pleas
of any-state, or to any recorder or
ntendanr of a town or city, who (hallthere
upon, issue his warrant of summons, direc
ted to all such/witnesses as (hall be named to
him by such applicant, ,or his agent duly
aatimn'fed for that pyrpofe,
the attendaqee of such witnefTes, befo-e him,
at (owe convenient litre anO-y>rg, ;« I
expressed in. the warrant, in order to be
then and there examined, in the manner;
herein after provfded, touching the fubjeft i
matter of the aforefaid application.
Sec. 2. And be it further enticed, That
(jvery such witness, as is abovementioned,
stall be duly served with such warrant, by
a sopy thereof being delivered to him or
or left at his or her usual place of a
bojle 5 and thatfuch service shall be made
a convenient timebeforetheday on which the
attendance of such witness is required, which
time the magistrate issuing the warrant is
hereby authorised and required to fix, for
each witness, at the time of fffuing it, hav
ing refpedl to the cireumftances of such \pit
tiefs, and the idiftance of his or her refi*
dence-from thetplace of attendance.
Sec. 3. Jtnd be it farther enacted, That
any person being summoned in the manner
above direfted, andrefufing or neglefti ng
to attend, pursuant to such summons, un
lsf3 in cafe of fieknels, or other unavoida
bleaccident, shall forfeit and pay the sum
of,<wenty dollars, to be recovered with
Colts gff tliF »» ■ * ]i J iniifl nri*
the warrant of •was issued, and
fothisufe, by aft ion of debt in any court,
or before any other tribunal of the United
States, or any slate, having jurifßiftion to"
the amount of such penalty.
Sec. 4. And be it further tnaScd, That
the magistrate ifluing the aforefaid Warrant
of summons, flail, at the time of ifluing
it, cause to be made out,binder his Hand,
and delivered to the* said applicant, or his
'agent authorised as aforefaid, a notification
direfted to the opposite party, and dating
the time and objeft of the aforefaid appli
cation, the name of the applicant, and the
t*me and place fixed for the examination of
tne witnefTes ; which notification the said
applicant, or his agent as aforefaid, shall
cause to be served on the said opposite psn-
Xy, by delivering to him, or leaving at his
usual pi ice of abode, a copy thereof, a
convenient time before the d?.y fixed for
th» aforefafd examination ; which time the
magistrate granting ' the said notifi ation
fball fix, at the time of granting it, having
the diltaftie of the said party's
place oF relidence from ~t h at~a p p6tnTeG"foT
the examination ; which examination shall'
not be proceed-d in, unless proof be made
Tg-f affidavit in writing, of the due service
of such notification, or unless the party on
wlipm such service is.hereby direfted to be
made, shall attend at the time and place a
foiefaid, by'himfelf or his agent duly au
thonfed, and consent to the said examina
tion ; which consent shall be certified by
the magistrate.
■Sec. 5. And be it further enaScd, That
all'witnefTes who shall attend, pursuant to
the said summons, and all other witnefTes
who shall be produced at the time arid place
aforefaid, by either of the parties, or their
or either of their agents duly 'authorised,
shall then and there be examined on oath
or affirmation, .by the magistrate who issued !
the warrant of summons aforefaid, or, in
cafe of his absence, by any other such ma- j
gillrateas is authorised by this aft to issue j
such warrant, touching all such matters and j
things refpefting the eleftion about to be ;
contested, as shall be proposed by either of
the psities aforefaid, or by their, or either
of their agents duly authorised; the tefti-'
mo'ny given on which examination, togeth
er with the questions proposed by the par
ties aforefaid, or their agents, or either of
them, to the witnefTes, refpeftively, the
said magistrate is hereby authorised and re
quired tc> cause to be reduced to writing, i"
his prefeiK*, and in the prefe»ce of the
parties or their agents, if attending, and
to be duly attested by the witnefTes, ref
peftively. After which be shall traflfmit
the said teilimonv, duly certified "under his
hand, covered and sealed up, to the clerk
of the house of repiefentatives of the U
nited States,- for the time being, together
with a copy of the warrant of fumitians,
v
anj notification iiliisd in toe'vdf, and
the original affidavit proving the service of"
such noliiication'.
Sec. 6. And he it further ertr.Sed, That
in eate any judge, justice, chancellor, may
or, recorder or intendant as is aforefaid, to
»rhom the application herein mentioned shall
be made, shall, by reason cf licknefs, necef
tary absence, or unavoidable accident, be
rendered unable attend at the time and
p' Ke fixed for the examination aforefaid, it
lha!l be lawful for h;m to certify the matter,
and the proceedings had by him in that be
half, to any other magistrate of any of the
defcriptiuns aforefaid, which said magistrate
thereupen, ftiall he, and hereby is authoriz
ed to attend at such time and place, and to
proceed touching the fiid examinations, in
all refpefts,as the magiftrzte issuing the war
rant of summons, irnght have done, bv vir
tue of ,tWa£f/" : ".-57-r ;
Sec. .7,. jlttd be ■■rmiMivf, Thaf
where no such magistrate as isltcreiti autho
rized to rece ve applications as aforefaid, and
p oce -d npon thc;m, shall reside within a:iy
diftrift for which an about tobe con.
telted, fh.all have been held, ft (liall be law
ful to mmkefuch application to my two jus-
of the peace residing within the "said
dFit rift, who are hereby authorized in fwch
ca>c, to receive such application, and joint
ly to proceed upon it in the manner herein
before direfted.
Sec. 8. And be it further enaSed, That
every witness attending by virtue of such
wsnant of 'unimons as i#herein direfted to
be issued, shall be allowed the sum of levcn
tv-five cents f?>r each days attendance, and
lurther sum of five, cents, for every mile
necefiarily. travelled in gojng and return ng
which allowance shall be ascertained and cer-.
tified by the magistrate taking the examina
tion, and shall be pa d by the party at whose.
instance such witness was summoned: And
such witness (hull have an-aftion for the re
covery of tlie said allowance before any
court, or magistrate having competent jurif
diftion, accoVding to the laws of the Unit
td States, or of any State, in which aftion
• the crrtiftrirte of the magistrate taking the
| said examination fhal! be evidence,
i Sec. 9, And be it further enaSed, That
! each judge, justice, chancellor, mayor, re
i corder, intendant and justice-os the peace,
vvho fliall be neCessarily employed, pursuant,
to the direftion of this aft, and all fheriffs,
constables or other officers who may be em
ployed to serve any of the warrants of sum
mons or notifications herein provided f«r,
shall have and receive from theparty at whose
instance such service shall have been perform,
ed, such fee or fee*) as arc er may be allow
ed for fitailar services in the States, wherein
such service shall be rendered, refpeftively
Sec. 10. nd be it further enaßed, That
this aft shall continue and be in force until
the end of the firft session of the sixth Con
gress, and'no-longer.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Reprefentatintes
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States
and President of the Senate—
Uivited States 1
Januctry 32, 1798. j
S3" ! -r-l i. i. . }
- -JOHN ADAMS, _
President cf the Uuiled States.
Deposited among the rolls in the office of
the Department of State.
Timothy Pickering, Secretary of Slate.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, January, 30.
A DARING ROBBFRY.
morning about 2 o'clock a dar
ing robbery and burglary was committed at
the house at Bellevue. Mr. Fi(her the keep
er of the house arose at the alarm, and
while descending the stairs was fired on,
then knocked down. He saw five men, f®ur
of whom were blacked, and the fifth with
a white frock over his head. TFe villains
took Mr. Fisher up stairs, beat his wife then
tied them together by the neck. They pla
ced a guard over a-n old man who was lying
in another room, and then proceeded to ran
fcck the house of whatever cash :hey could
find, with several articles of vabe, such as
silver fpoo'iis, cloathing, See.—They were
all armed with swords and pifto's.
The attempt of this desperate gang of
villains should excite the vigilaince of our ci
tizens to'guard againft'theirfutur« depreda
tions ; and if poflible to bring tlcm to an
early appreheiifion.
HARTFORD, Januaryjy.
La"ft Saturday, as Mr. DanielPhelps, of •
Lebanon (N. H.) was coming down on j
-Connefticut river in a fleigh,,his -horses •
broke through the ice at
; when, (hocking to relate i his wife, with ;
a child of fix years old, wer« drowned, j
I With the gieateft difficulty, Vlr. Phelps 1
: had his own His fleijh, horses, '
j and 400 dollars in cash, with his affeftion
: ate consort anfl loving child, wtre ail carri
!ed under the ice. The child however was
| discovered and taken out by fone persons
| who immediately w«nt to thei' aftlftance,
i but not until it expired. Nothing more
j could be found. The partsictlars of this
] ipelancholly scene we* have noi; set heard.
fxtrad of a letter frem a genthman in Eu
"rope, to his friend in Ph\!addphta, dated
'Os. 20, 1797.
" A furrimary of the correspondence be- |
tween Mr. Pickering and Mr. Monroe was !
lately published from the Gazette Nationale |
of Paris, with a very judicious note, from :
the Editor, which overset Mr. Monroe's
reaftining very completely. This affair ha
ving been read by the corps diplomatique,
has been A good deal the fubjedl of conver
sation, and Mr. Monroe's coaduft has of
course excited universal contempt.',
WORCESTER, January 24.
On Sunday, the 14th irifl. tfjuardi night,
the dwelling house of Mr. William Hoiue, In
ko'der in B. uolfidJ, COiJSda u'Je pint C
tf the heufkMd furniture, am cctsirud bv n
tire. he f,d is fu'pofrd to heme ire.n'h'nl id C
by a fmal! child, rvitb a candle, in tift&attl'er ?
mar the centre of the house. The Jtcines hud f
made fucb progrz/rt previous to tbt dtfnvery, t
I hat the aUivity and alert ness rf the people, tvho
thronged together,could only be exmiTedfir the t
security of adjacent bttildiegr, and the furniture c
&c. in the houfr ffqt tl/it''/landing en cry ;yr- a
tion, fix beds with tlje bedding, a chcfl of linen
and a number of other articles, •tverelo/l. It e
tvets tifavourable circumfiance tj the neighbour- f
hood, that the air svas unufvnlly calm; other- e
wife, a large number of buildihgs, probably, t
have been reduced to ajhes. ' n
The next evening, a number of inhabitants d
oj'Brickfield collided at capt. Draper's, to b<-
gin a fubjcaption for the relief-f Mr. fi'm;, C
and _ his diflreff-d family. Upwards if f*
hitnd-ed and ,or ty dollars were imnt'/iu'elv
fubfentrd; and there is no doubt but a batd
jome addition IvtHfpedily be maJe to that sum.
tL h X I ND 'I \ Jan-irv 2
' V*t
V tx bowpd- • i n ,o y>. ♦«>;lc rhc 14I 1
in", th- ujx-» ( 'res of. -Aea-her 111 his veffc.l <flpe x
j oaiis ers ragta ns Lit mo. of \ T >rwich; Hofljc*,
tor Choafc, n( !io(ton ; and RuflTell, f>( Salem— -m 1
ot vv ' m hsd the r v ed at NTwtz 1» 1 v
a MW-bVrlb d fe. eivileiYj. ■, tn ihe Noifolk He-, f
d 0 '7 A r-iian VcfTeH iak<f» into Ntn'7, 1
Have been c ndrmn.'ri, a-id arsons "them is the b"? 1
Ctfheri r, C 7. * c, irbeft this po -. w M rlofthefe
vffv!s the. rrmaik <% have been cao urcS upwa/'di of l
fivemo:.ths ago; th cargoes aken out before trial;
fume of them laid up Mat month* before judgment
was p oneirred, rind the trews tnrned »n fhoie, 10
starve in the Hteets, o go a privateering.''
Extra# of a feter frorw 1 man on board the '
Saratoga, to his llrti.r in hi? town, dated
Ship Sara*o3a, 1 ngin Roads, Jan 9. .j
We arc ooa teatjy for f.-a, and are oftly waitir/g
for a wind Mr. Ct.i Kpid » n arrived Here yesterday
from lexandria. There in a talk of the (hip's go
ig to the
r, om Bremen to th« tfir ot France, therrc; to Mecca,'
ut> the Red Sea, to Jeru r alcm. If so, we (hall be
- about 17 or 18 m >nths. There is fomc d\|ufce ]
ab»nu the ship, lam cer'ain, in lexanclria. jtor
Clingman d»r (\ not j>o on here, sot fear of being
t-*Ken up. He came polVhaye, and ordered the
(hip away immediately ; but the win 4 being ahfad,
we could not get out of the rpads 4 and hyp; * ili not
allow a boat to come on board. 1 wiil wfite you a
gainf:om Bvmen."
,« " I*#
*** This holy pi lcr t* bas'deetitfprcl from A
lexandria, a'ter swindling the merchants there o«t ot
50,000 dollars. A. pretry :xick !
X!)e <sw tit*
■ j—. , ...
PHILADELPHIA, a
WEDNESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 31.
MR. FENNOj
A mifreprefentationof the tranMton
pened yeilerday, in the Houfeof Rp>re f e6taLivei, be- c
tween Mt. Lyon and Mr, Grifwold, havi/ig been pub» '
lifhed this morning in the Aurora, tbcfojlowirjmore
correft statement of the faft is handed you to pre* c
vent the injury which that mifreprefentaton fcemsde- \
signed to do the character of an injured nan. c
Yesterday, in the Houfeof Reprefenuive*, while
the members were balloting for Manager to conduit
the Impeachment of William Blount, Mr. Lyon, j
(landing by the Bar of the House, anc add jelling
himfelf toa circlc, of which Mr Gnlwdd was one,
made the following observations— c< Thatthe Kepre
fentatives in Congrcis from the State of Gonne&ieut, a
were conducting in the Houte in dtreft oipofition to 1
the wilhes of their conftitucnts—that the*" were pur
suing their own intereO,;and cared nothiig about the
public—theirx>bjt6l being to obtain offiaes for
selves—and.that it mattered noc the office f
W4> «*ori<i one tliwu tfiiu or mac ihonf*.>4 drJJa s.— [
that the Reprcfentatives Of that State were adminif
terirg opium to theft Conftituenis, to lull them asleep
—a;:d th tif he fht>uld go into that and take ]
on hitnfclf thej management of a printing preftj fpr ;
fix or twelve months, he could etfc6l a Kevolattpn, \
change the whole of the State, and turn o-t ]
the prtfent Repicfrntatives.
On which Mr. 'Gfifwold replied to Mr. Lyon,
ttiat he vvaa much mistaken ; for he could not
produce the effe&if he Ihould go inco
cut f)r diange the opinion of the mear.eft hofu^r,
Mr. Lyon said he kft'ew the temper of the peo
ple of Connexion, he had to light th-jm in ins "
own diftri<St, whenever they came thrre., Mr.
Grifwold aflwd him whether he fought with
a wooden sword : upon wM>*b, Mr. Lyon fpai in
Mr. Grifwold's face • ,
Mr. Grifwold from refye& to the house, and be*,
ihg instantly cautioned by some of lu> friends, re
prefTed his imlignation.
The motion to take up the fibjedl in th.e houf ,
was made Without the previous kuowleuge 01 Mr.
Grilr/old.
The Committee appointed oa this fubjtdl, have
not vet made any report.
, This morning, the House of Represent. tives com- j
pleated the lift of Managers of tue Im-'cachment of .
William Blourr, by ele&ing jlf, Evans, Mr. Dennis '
and M». Imtay.
A melancholy accideiit happened in this ]
; city ytfterday afernooP, wbith we trust'
| will operate as a caution to ptrforr» ofiugthe
present fartiionahle .amufensent of sleighing,
particularly in the city. A party of gentle- :
man Were riding along Front near Pine street
«her> their h'qrfes took fright and ran off I
■ the gentlemen threw themselves out of the
I sleigh, without receiving any particular in.
. jury, but, the horses ran upon the foot pave- <
! ment with the jfleigh, and killed one wt>-
; man and very much injured another !
Married, on Sunday tvemVg last, by the i
Rev. Mr. Uftick,! Mr. George Fisher, to i
Miss Mary Roberfon j and on Monday even- i
ing, also by the Uftick, Mr. !
Abraham Boyer, to Mils Eunice Howell. i
- I
The lfgiflature of Maryland at their late i
session pa/Ted 122 a£ls. I
'.' >
NASSAU, January 12. i
Yellerday arrived here hia majesty's ship
Andromeda, captain Taylor, his itiajefty's I
(hip Lynx, Captain Hall, and a Spanifli <
brig from CampeacJhy to Havamia, prize to
the Ranger and Primrose, privateers, of f
this port. 1
His majesty's ship Prevoyante> Captain c
: Wemyfs, ajfrived here to day from Tybee. i
Commodore with.the Magici- t
enneand Dilligence, had returned from La
g«ira, without efFe&ing the objeft of his i
mission, the Spanifn commandant faying he c
could not delivef ';p the Hermioue* or her t
piratical crew, without others for that pur- i
pose from his Court.
The Magicieune and Diligence, on their
return to the Mole, weht a Bay, on i
the north coast of Porto-Rico, and cu;
i
\ ' •
out fiom iheoce eight fiil of veffeis, t,z. 7.
mereliantmen, chicdy Engiiih and Arr.eri
c»a prizes, and. one Fvsach privateer. Tti«
Magicieune fuil.jined some trifling injury
from the fire of the
the prizes had arrived at the Mole.
An enterprize was lately formed against
the French poll at the Platform, which fuc
ceedsd completely: all the works, stores,
: aiTd artillery being dcttroyed,
A large body of troops was rcftmeilfly
expefted at the Mole, from Europe.—The
force of the French at-Cape Francois, was
estimated at 200 Europe: .1 and 20 Q Hack,
troops. —ToufTant was at Bar
ney was at the Cape iu bad health, and in
disgrace.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The United Srjtes Dug . "nphia,cjpt Malec>ir»
rjvett at New-York on Monday' from the iria
vanjiah.
The brig Charlotte, Penrofe, and sloop Mary,
Gamble, from ifcence, have arrived a* the Ha
vannah.
An finharjo that had fxifted at the Havannjh
fir tht'eV Wfi'ks. wis taken 'fT thr 11 th iritt.
«hen VTaria, Flian, of this port,
failed for St. Thomas's."
i'he ftvip Iris, , of And from Hamburgh
to this port, •yhkh was spoke on_ the coast- the
,9th ult. is fnppoled to have goae into New
be< n, N C.
, New-fork, Jan. 30.
ARRIVSD JDAYS.
Brig Sophia, Maley Havawia 17
Schr. Mary, Howard Norfolk 7 j
Nancy, Black, Ditto '
Sloop Dove, Coffin, Charleston j
Lift of veflels failed in company with the
brig Sophia, arrived here on Sunday from
Havanna, in 14 days :
Ship Abigail, Hare, of a»id for Balti
more ; fclir. Barbara, White, ditto; fchr.
Feh'city, ditto ; captain Eveleth, of Al- j
exatidria, to Baltimore ; a north
ward brig, Wfb, of Salem, for Baltimore;
do. Godfrey, do. a Ncvbyryport fhip,H»m,
for do. captain Watfpn, in a schooner of j
and for Philadelphia ; eapt. Flin, in a fchr.
of Philad. for St. Thomas ; capt. Lever
ing in a, fchoc/ner of and for Alexandria ;
capt Hazard in a brig of and for Charles
ton.
Leftat the Havanna, the Halcion,Smith
wiek, of Baltimore, fehr. Hawk, Berry,
of do. brig RufTell, Prince, of Charleston,
and several others, names unknown.
Baltimore, January 27.
The fchr. Polly, Booth, of and from Bal
timore, bound to St. sago 'de Cuba was
captured by a French privateer, carried in
to Jean Rabel and acquitted ; and in a se
cond attempt to reach St. Jago d« Cuba,
was captured" by an English sloop of war,
carried into Kingften, cargo condemned and
vessel libelled. Charleston paper*
Arrived at Fort M'Henry,
j The brig Rebecca, of Philadelphia, An
drew Arnold, mailer, 35 days from Jacmel
and Aux-Cayes, bound for Philadelphia,
having met with very, severe weather on the
coast. Having been blown off the capes of
Delaware, was obliged to bear away for the
firfVport ; not being able to get a pilot and
Wng unacquainted with the Norfolk paflage
was necefiitated to run up the bay for this
port.
VefTels left at Jaer.iel, Dec. 1.
i ® r 'g > Reece of Baltimore
Schr. Eagle, Anderfon, te fail in 15 days
Schr, , Lilly of Baltimore
Brig Friendlhip, Clark, Philadelphia
Schr. Huzzy,
Do. Sally, Beck, Georgetown, Potomac
—capt. sick
Do. Molly, Mohon, Newbury port
Brig -, Whitehoufe, condemned as
unfit for service.
Left at Aux-Cayes, Dec. 22.
Brig Eliza, Town fend, Salem
Do. Coats, Jehnfon, Newport
Do. Swallow, Stoder, New-York ,
Do. Fair American, Bark, Philadelphia
—to fail about the sth January
Do. Polly andßetfey, Towhftnd, Boflcn
' Do'. Charles, Crofton, Philadelphia, to"
fail in 3 days for Petit Guave—mate dead
and two people sick
Do. Relief, Mandual, Philadelphia—to
fail in two days for St. Domingo ; all bis
people dead
' —Do. William, *Hurft, Baltimore
Seh. Eliza, Bethwood, Charleston
■ Do. Mary, Eft. ro fail for Charleston in
2 day;
Do. Enterprize, Blackburn, New Hamp
shire, captain dead, mate taken command
Do. Ann, Johnson, Portland.
Do. Linnet, Williams, Ipswich— capt.
dead, mate taken command
Do. Argus, Randall, Portland
And feveialother veffels,names unknown.
Chief of the above vessels have been -wait
ing a long time for their payment from ad
ministration ; not being fatfsfied with tak.
ing ourcargoes, and paying Us in produce,
■a* what price and time they please, they
how compel us to pave their streets ;> what
they next will do is hard to determine—
Captain Arnold was detained two days,
thfry refuling to dear him out. until he
would bring three boat loads of sand to fill
up their streets.
Dteember 28th, off the Isle of Pine's
spoke the brig Indullry, > ,ro days
out from Jamaica, bound for Bollor.
January.6, off the aorth fide of Cuba,
fell in with, and was boarded""by a New-
Providence pritateer fchoonfcr, the Hawk,
of ten gun«, capt. .Cook, who, after iex
ataining his papers, letters, &c. politely
dismissed him. ,
Jan. 7 fell in with; and boarded by a
New-Ptflvidence privateer brig, of,i 8 guns,
called ..the Lark, captian Cobern, |who af
ter examining his papers, also politely dis
missed him.
Arrived last night at the fort, a brig un
der Swedilh colors. Also the schooner Ma
ry of Alexandria, capt. Evclith.
The fehooniP Barbara, captrjofrphWhite
ju.<. fifveeu.o.iV' UOiTi ft thv- Hj«r.;.r!, Cd|>t.
White wes embargoed about three weeks at
the Havaunah, where the Vera Crux flt-rt
tfi'tb a Lrge quantity of fptcie/ bad ariiv,
ed, about the 7th iiiit.
Two Spanish ftigjtcs'witi> dollars, bound
to Parto Rifo, touted cti 'Salt Key, 6ne
of which was Itft there, fier taking out the
valuables and deiVtoyisig tbe ship; theothtf
returned tu Haviiu.a with an aCeount of the
misfortune.'
Capt. White failed from Hivannah ill
Company with a large fleet of American vel~*
ft*ls, a'triong them were the
Ship , rapt. "Ham, of Newhuryportj
bound to Charleston.'
Abig. i", capt.
m .rc; parted with her off cape
Hatteras.
United States brig Sophia—Very leaky.
Brig Friciidlhip, of Biil-ji, 'apt Go trey
bound to Baltimore.
Nancy,' of-'Srlem, Bound to S ilerr.
Stfhr. , of Philadelphia, capt. Wat sou
bound to New York.
Flynn, of do. bound to St.
Thomas.
Felicity, Kearny.
Exchange, of Alexandria, Lorering.
Siiters, of Norfolk, Hartley.
NORFOLK, Janujry 20.
In a Liverpool paper of the 10th of
November, we have an account of the
capture" of the ship Jeanie, Captain
Alexander M'Giegor, on the 9th of Octo
ber, by a French privateer of 16 guns and
115 men, narfied the L? Hazard. The Jea
nie was bound from Liveipool to this stare,
arid natwithftanding her very iufei ior force*
having only to giuia and 12 men, she main
tained an engagement which ci ntinued up
wards of three hours and forty si e minutes,
! during which time a number of the priva
j teer's men were killed and wounded, and
: both, vessels considerably (battered. The
1 Jeanie was soon after je-taker. by the A'ifjn
Britilb frigate, and sent into "Falmouth ;
but, we are lorry to find that the brave
M'Gregor was carried into Rochelle.
Yeftei day arriv ed the fchr. Somerfet,eapt.
Stevens, 3* days from Gonaives bound to
Baltunoie, but having sprung a leak, and
J being ihort of provisions, put in he're. Car>
i tain Stevens has furnilhed us with th: fol
■lewing.
Left at Gonaivrr I 9/Z1 December'.
Ship Ardent, Greybell of Baltimore
Brig Industry, Bishop, of do. for adjudi
cation.
Schr. Thetis, How, do. do.
Suffolk, Clark, of New»York »
Dove, Spooler of Boston.
The Dove was bound to Gonaives, but
was captured by a republican barge and car
tied into the platform, where his hatches
were broke open, and his cargo taken from
him without any hopes ofbeing indemnified.
The above fchr. Thetis, capt. How.tho
bound to a French port, was brought in as
a prize to a republican barge, and detained
as a prisoner for five days on board his ves
sel, under a guard, who threatened to Ihoot
capt. Ste Tens for going aloßg fide.
On the 2d December the above brig In
dustry was brought in ; (he had been taken
several days before and carried into the Plat
form, where a number of blacks and men
of colour came on board, broke open the
hatches, and took out between two and
three hundred barrels of flour, and sent the
brig for Gonaives, declaring her to be a
good prize.
December 16, arrived there there the feh.
Amelia, of and for Philadelphia from Petit
Guave, with only the captain and mate on
board (all his sailors having died at Petit
Gn?ve.) He was working into the harbor
to obtain seamen, when he was boarded by
a privateer and brot in as a prize, and her
hatches sealed down.
On the 19th December the (loop Dol
phin, of and from Philadelphia bound to
Leogane was brought in a prize.
I lie whole of the absve vefftls were
bound to French ports. There are from 10
to 15 barges out of Gonaives, who capture
every American they can come across, no
matter where bound-
Two days previous to capt. Sttvens fil
ing, it was purrently reported that the Coop
Hope, capt Bewel, of and for hartelton
from Petit Guave, was boarded by a French
barge off the weft end of Ganuba island,
who made the Capt. and mate jump over
board, and put the reft of the crew to dentil.
In the Caicos passage spoke the brig Tho
mas, capt. Parker, from Portde-Paix bound
to Charleston, who gave the fame informa
tion.
ARRIVED.
Ship Jackson, Rea, St. Vincent's
Brig Democrat, Baldy. Jamaica
Williamfon, Albay, C. N. Mole
Two Sifters, Ronjaine, Porto Rico
Schr. Hazard, Hill, Guadeloupe
Sloop Lydia, Nicholfon, Antigua
BOSTON, January. 23.
CAPTURE ofTERNATE.
Accounts are received, via Batavia, of a.
late date, that the British have extended
their conquests in India, to the Island of
Ternate, tjle meft northerly of the Moluc
cas, formerly celebrat-d for their Clove-trees
but which the Dutch, in the reign of James
I. transplanted principally ta the famous I
sland of Amboyna, where their enormities
convinced the world that Hollanders could
be cruel..
MW-theatre.
(By Desire.)
THIS EVENING,
JA'iUAF.Y JO,
Will be prefemed th« Lumedy of
VIYES AS TiHEY WERT, and M .iIU. AS THSY
ARE.
To wh;rh vrill be aclilAd thi
HUNT THE SLJPPER
JBos, on-e Dol|»r ; I'it, tlireS quarters of a I).
lar ; and Galliry, ha>f a Dollar.' *
v- c (j oor - 0 f the l hsatre will cpei* at Svc,
ifti) the., turttin rife preclfely at Ex c't.ocl.
; x>.JUST PUBLISHED, J
And to be ful 1 by WILLIAM WOODHOWE,
No. 6. 100 h Krent f-rcct, Philadelphia, '
The Young Chenift's Pocket
Companion ;
co-vs/cnn with
A PORTABLE LABQRATOkT:
CONTAINING (
A Phi iof pbical Apparatus, and a great number of Cbo- j
mica! Agents ;
By which any perfoi nay perform an cndlefs va- 1
rifty of airuting an't mtfru&ing cxprtimcnts ;
iftterd/H r. i oni"tc the cultivation of Sci
ercetif Ch<-rn *y.
BY JJUMS IVOODHOUSB, M. D.
PsafcJJtr y Cbtmiftty in the Lf-ii+t J.ty of Pennfyl"9o
- life.
AT PKKfI'ITT BTEIIT T«IH« THAT If NOT !>!•
NOMIVATTD CUiMllTir, 8 BUT A SMALL PAIT
Of A SYSTEM or MaTUKAL KNOWL I DOI.
PriefHey on Air.
THE chift cnnn?ifrd ■with this booki* one foot
and a halt Iwtg, one foot broad, and ahoat the
lim'-h |f fowfiftt t%S two apurtmenw ike
upper onr contamsrwentytwobottlcs filled withthe
following tc'Js, in a* pure a it ate as pefiible.
1. Sulphuric acid » J
2. Nitric a"i 1 '
3. Muriatic acid
4. Carhanic acid
5. Oiaiic acid
6. Acioho! of galls /
J. Solution o pot ash p
8 Por ash in powder
9 Am noniac
jo. ff<»!u r ion of the sulphate of iron
11. So'ut.on of the sulphate of cbpoaJr
12. Solution of mercury in the nitric acid
Xj. Sii.utiOrt of fjlvtr in th nitric acid
14 Ool'jfion of corrosive sublimate
1 $ tion of the acetate of lead
16. Solution of arsenic 5
17. solution cf the muriated barytei g.
l 8 Sulph.te of magn*i&a p
19. Lime water
, 20. Pr'ffiiUof lime
21. Pi liHute of pot ash
22. Ammoniate ' f copper
The lower apar'ment is a drawer, in which the ' «
phij. fophital apparatus is placed, and a number of
agent; folded up in-paper, as A
f. of paper llaincd blue by the tin&ure 1
of Utmut J
2. Litmii* paper turned red in an acid y
3. A small bag, confining genuine litmus X
4. Paper, dyed yellow ! y turmeric
5. Turinerx paper turned-brown by an alkaK !
6. Pare . ysd red l»y i razil wood !
7. Br.:zii woo i paper, framed purple by an al- ; oc
Vali Z e
S. Zhic, in small piece*
9. C pper, in small pieces
10. re'liea! r
JJ. Iron filing* ;
12. Sulphate of copper j
13* J* trat of topper ! w<
14- of ammonUf;
15. AeHate of lead !j ni
15 Carbftnste of iirtia
IJ. !>mp»uir j 0
i he Apparatus confiib •£ Vi
1. jGI Jfe j> r
2 a bhw pipe* cf tin, copper, orfilver j3' r
3 a r'. gritt £ r
4 a a iiin»aimable-air piflol £) r
5. a Kali's p c
, 6. a mrafufc liquids
7 a fmajl pestle aiiJ mortar
v ' Scales'w< igbrs
1 tkis a duodltimo of 56 pages ; contain*
Inga tfod of performing one hu - dred experi
ifi.cr-.tsj t . greater part of which are made -in a
cos'Hi <!.«•• -f-, iiid many of wbichare the . 1
n\of i'!i. t which occur in the science of Che- JJ (
uri An expl narion is giv n of the pheflome-
na which take plact m each exper ment, aad a fiin- ,
P le manner s laid down of preparing moil of the cal
tei-> wl xn e«pen led P™
By this Chemical Companion and Fort* thc
at)lc L l»'>rnory, wiio h-vc not had an
epp'>ftuni'y of attending an experimental course
of Chemi .ry, may inlfruA thcn.ftrive% an 1p r- in 1
ft tin, with the giea-efl raf , t c c-kbrated ex>eri
menu of Prieitjey, Pr u'i. Be gmfen, ra
Macqu« r, and the fir t Ch-mi.ls ai tiie age J®'
Jai' iary 2 n:t&t3t r^'
JUST PUBLISHED
AND TO BE SOLD 8T Tl)
James Humphreys,
At N». 74, North ThirdJlreet, the corner of an
Cherry-alley, 1,0.
(Pt'irroiv W . n tU ar.d'r(trred) c'i
An ENQUIRY into the DUTIES of the
female bex.
Bv f HO HAS GI BOKNE, a. m. Th
The follov iner amung othcr« are the principal efft
Subjects .>t' this uleftfl Work lea
Female liducaucn. Of tine mode of intrtdue• mo
ing i'out ; W unt(n into genera.! ieci-!y. Female I
Cori-erjatiaii and bpijlcjary Corr,fpondenctma
Drr/j. /imujements. Excess in the pursuit of ■ nt
Ainkfemeni -. Employment of 'ime. Canfider- t0 ]
utions autfce-'Unt to marriage Duties of mat- tro
rime ial ! ife, =witb a view to different Situations ma
and (.ircu fauces. Pa'Kntat'aties- Duties
<>J"the middle period of Life Dul.ts of tb« De- ,
dine of j. tfe.
CT Ffm thf ripe uFtbe Toregoitig wqrk t
Qlay pet' ap» rr imagined, that the Enquiry i
tltogethrr and cxclufively (It ecled to the dut t»
of the Female Sex : it therefore, may not b« i>n»
neiefTary. or unufcful, to ren.ark, that many pt
the chaptet» contain matUT rjlative to the con
du£t ot h'lth sexes, and particularly those vhich
relateto thedutietof Matrimonial Life—Parental
Dutie»—Duties o- the Middle Ptrio 1 —and o Q n
the Decline cf Life.—And the rea er of eithe
fex that peruse this work with a view of gain
ing information leading to f»bftantial plea'/urr, AI
will alfurcjly not he disappointed. In h&, it
it a work interfiling to the happineft of socie
ty. and mult he uf.-ful wherever read i tending
not on!y to point out in easy and engaging lan
guage, the path* that bad the youthful mind to
happinefsand comfort, but thofis also, in the
walk of which, the parent and the middle period
of life thail find sincere delight, and declining F«
years render themselves comfortable and
Nt'ith all around them.
Phiiad. Jan. 19. „ »^t
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Mon«by, thezoth
inil. Tickets for Sale in,this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. Lottery
a"'l Hrnkers Office, No. 64, Snnrh
Tickets in the Schuyik ll Bridge Lottery, n» 7a
Ds'tnn. '.u.- Lo;i*S *rr Itept tor rcpHtci •
tng and inthefe. the City of Walhing
ton. No. 11. «•)■) Taterfon Lotttries, and informa
tion where tielists may be had in mall of the Lotte
ries aothoiifcdby law 13 any of the Statu of the
Uiiion.
N. B. The bufinrf of 1 Bkokir, in buying add N
f-llirj'all Jti:'d« of PuMlc Stock and Securities,
difcounti-.T BilU and Ni.tes of Hand, sale of
I-apH , Huttfca, tcc. 4c. will he duly attended to, F
by W.m. BLACKBURN.
«-:* Vtt 5 ""
OVAI bOTTLES. ~ 3p
Otiarfaitd half gallon in urate* —andaqnantl Rc
tv of Cl.'ret Bottles of a right ftze —For fair-. Vi
No.* <3, "Church Alley.' JOHN DOIL', I.Y
Jutusry 11 jU*6w. j. 1
r
_ I For Amsterdam,
•I The Ship
:t s.bS&t FARMER,
Jouk M'Ccn.i.oM, Master ;
WILL fail in a lew days, the
,reater part of her cargo being
-ear'y. For freight 01 fifty ton« of Coff'.c, or pxi
fage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut*
■*" llreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
a " Who i« Landing, out of the said Ship, from Booi
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhd«.
White Win« in quarter calks
a- Claret in cases, of a fuperiot quality
Fentiniac, }
1. Sauterne, > Wines in eates
:7 Lunille, t
prunes in boxes
m For Sale or Charter,
K The Snotu
,e msr GOOD HOPE,
Will carry aboat noo barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers W Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who hav« forftl<-—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm Madeira, Lilbin, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chis holm,
A ne-v vefTel, with exctAlent
aftom modation» for passengers
Sai's on tbc oth of DeccmNer For Freight or
PafTage, apply to ROSS U" SIMSON.
Who have to difptfe of \
A fma'l invoice ot SALTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
movemher Ts. 5
f Recently Publijhed,
. Au l Jul imported frorn England, by WittiAM
1 Garrrirm, No. Iy, South Second street, and
may be had of Moac m J Ruecs,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two clofcly
printed volumes in Bvo. (priee 3 dol'ars)
Illustrations of Prophecy :
| In which are e»ucida'ed many pred:&ions, which
occur m (faiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evan*
gelid*., and hook o' Revelation ; wh'fc u are tho*C
to Joretell among oth.r great events, a revolution
in France, avora* le to ihe intcrefts of mankind,
the overthrow of the papal pow«r and of ecclefi
aitical 'yranny, the dowofall of c.vil defpot.fm,
| thefubfequent jaflioration of the state of tha
' w«rld : together with
A large colUftion of Extracts,
ImerfpvfcdnhrQUgii the work, and taken from
numerous commentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede, Sir Isaac Newton,
1 Vitringa. \lt. William Lowth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,'
Dr. Hem y .More, 3engeliw,
Dr. John Owen, Dau'-ui,
Dr. Creffener, Whitby,
Peter Juriea, Lowman,
Bren tts, Silhop Newton, and
Bifli 'p Chandler. Bifliop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Betides various other inquiries treated of in
this work, and numerous illustrations of prophecy ;
it con'ains a considerable number of fa6U or obr
fcrvations on the fymbolie language of prophecy,
the authenticity, uses, and abfeurity of the apo.
calyple, and the genuinenefc of the Hebrew pro
phets ; on the rapid corruption of cbriftianity in
the fourth century ; on the difperlion and reloca
tion o the Jews, the hillory of the fa tfe Messiahs
who have appeared among them, and the reasons
in support "f the conj-flure that th« A%W«n5 aie
th - csfcendants of the ten tribes j on the right of
nlfta te to oppression; on the irruptions of th®
north -rn nations, and the caufcs of the decline and
fall of the < oman empire; on the customs of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs; on
th conquests of those nations, and thoicol the
Turks; jt the usurpation of the Mamalukes, and
tan nail ind prefect (late of Egypt; on
the charailer and conduit of Conftantinc, Juttini
an, Clnvi-, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
l>o <k» in the dark ago, and the caufcs of the de
c'i of literature ;on th« rapid rife of the Brench
m narthy. and the caa r es of its tall; onthe in
consistencies in thr political charadersof hifhops
Newton and Hurd ; on the peculiarit e« of Dr.
Th Burnet's theory of the earth ; onthe beneficial
e/Tcfis which ehriftianity has produced in favor ol
learning an 4 crvil liberty, ano! its tendency to pro
mote the edaMiihm nt of equal governments
lud°p«ndent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in thef. volumes, those *ho are '
tntere'-led in the fubj;& will, it is prelumei!, wilh
to petufe or confultthem, bccaufe the extrads in
troduced ia them, whieb are accurately cit<a,and .
marked with inverted commas, are taken from a j
greater number of writers-on the prophecies (a*. 1
least if the roman cathrlic commentators he ex- |
eluded) t h an are eatly acceflible to any one indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probibly to be found
in any one li rary in the world Ttwy are <ur
nilhtd with indexes, and a eo ious table of con
tents. T:t 11 211" l'A-
Jult Pubiiihed,
And to be hid at the Book-florei of Meffri. Dob
son, Camtbell, Yoong and Ormroo,
in Phila4»loh«a,
' OBSERVATIONS
On the Gaufes and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To -wittb ii annexed,
AN BSTRACT of tht opinion* and praAjce,of,'
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fafls and relative to '
the Synotbut IfltroiJrj, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much diftrefcand mortality, at
different periods, in feveralof the fcaport towns
of tl)e United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fellow of "the Philad*lphia Collage of Phyfuians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, &c. »3m§
. ROSS W SIMSON,
HAVE. FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, ( RUM.
andTßcngal J
lOOcafle. RIPR, ind
A parcel of ship building RED CEIMR.
OA- 1 7- f
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. s_j, the corner of Chefnut and Front (treats,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches, Aifi, a general assortment or Tools,
Eiles and Materials, cosfiiling of Clock Move
ments, fight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and farge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Punice Stone, Emery,
ttottcn Stone, Cat Gnt; bench, Hand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers, Chains, Seals, Keys, 4tc. &c.
*n* Apprentices Wanted.
, novembcr 3. fittuif
To Be Sold, i
AGP.EE.iSLY to lie la* will aid teftawtsrt of J
\Vij.uh« dcccifeif, and poff-f-
Con given immediately, a valuable property ii Arch
lire t, between Third and Fourth ft. ects, confiii
he ing of the iiwafc. No 107, withthclot on wh|c!\
p ., it i- erected, a ftaUlT, and other improvements.-
Thehgyfii if 20 feet front, and conrains ten gooi ,
ut „ aj-irttTTtV.ts. The bt is of the fain: breadth <;? the
hau'.cand 209 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious wp.lleti cittern, both with pumps
in gonp rtpair. TJie liable .lands on the rear of
3 ' the lot ami will accommodate four horse* and a rar
rUjit. Thin property enjoys'he perpetual privilege
of a 16 feet court andac alley, 8 feet wide,extend- j
irj t« Cherry Street. Ir« ecM'al position and tbe (
advantage* it poffefl s with rcfpeA to free ver.tila- ,
tion. render- it well worthy the attenticn of any
in Phi- j
ladeplia, j
For further particulars enquire at No 83, Vir.e
Street—of
'RCBMT Hivjham,
or Executors.
F<*Ntis Bowes
January IJ -* f
nd W. Haydonv t c
«» Delineator of Drci<wir\g-—from London, t ]
(Where in. has Itudied ftveral years under ono of
th# mofl eminent nnfters in t at ftieuce) t j
INFORMS his triend-, that he has rt-eommenc
ed his private tuition.— Terms, as usual, Six c
JU Dollars per mouth, for attendance three times a
week. Llkjwife, allkin-s of Ornamental Paint-
ing, fruit, flow.rt r &r.'aught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters himf-lf His terms will be particu- t ,
larlf advautagtoas to tJji'fe that employ him, as
he makes bo additional charge if there are two 0
pupils in one family. h
A Jine directed to W. H. left at the office of this p
Gtzette, will be immediately attended te.
Janu-ty 9. §»w
' r g? The owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, WiMam Uro»i, mailer, captured by r
a Spamlh privateer and fold at Ceuta in lift De
cember, may receive intereft'mg information res- fl
peeing her, by applying to the Department of
~ State. fl
*, * The Printers in the sea-port towns of b
* the United States will render a service to the
concerned, by inferring the above in their news- tl
iWm.. Jan- 3. ft
y - 1 _ J-J-?
By JOHN MILLER, jun. & Co, tl
No. 8 ( Ch«lnut-ftreet, "
One hundred and eighty bales
■I BENGAL GOODS, J
n which are,
Garrahs Mamoodics
i- Buitas Sannas
», Guezmhs Tanda Coffees b
2 Gazzies Emertics ti
Blue Clcth9 Calicoes ti!
P?.lampa>r# 1 Romall Handkerchiefs o
B Amongii them are a great proportion of the tl
manufactures of Patna.
December I. §
NOT I C E. ~
To holders 0} JAMES GREENLEAFs
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagementsj £
IN consequence of many having been prevent- F
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from q
obtaining tleir Certificates, agreeable to former t ;
notice. Tie Trullees now inform them, they t [
jre ready ti iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply witljinfixty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
11 j and those vho do not, will be cenfidercd as re
i ; linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
* provided f»r their payment.
HENRY PRATT, r-
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN. <3
1 JOHN ASHLEY, tc
Jacob baker.
I , Dgcetobqr 15. dftct dl
= War-Office of thelinited States,
January the ift, 1798.
j TTTHEREAS frauds have been priSifcd, in m
VV obtaining Warrants for Bounty Lands, due K
to the Officers and Soldiers of the late Continental
Army, by the predu&ion of forged tmlruments. IV
| To check in future such impositions. it has been
thought advifeable ; that all pcrfons, having claims ec
for bounty lands, whether in their own right, as c»
r legal fcprefentntive, or by virtue of any instrument er
or deed of transfer, be required to forward their at
j rsfpeftive claims to the War Office, on or before fe
1 • the firft day ot January 1799 in order that such o!
' ' claims may be duly examined, adjusted and deter- n
mined upon
To fuhtianyate such claims, a ftriil observance oi -
! the rules heretofore issued from the War Office will
be ir.difpenfable ; and in addition to what is requir
ed by the said ruiej, the certificate of the acknow
j ledaebnent of a Deed or Power of Attorney, mutl
a so set furth the place of refidenee and occupation
of the cainiant »r perfoq niakingfuch acknowledg- 11
ment; and wh n the pi oof of perlonal knowledge 9
j > is by a witnef« or w tntffes, their place or places of
refidenee must be set forth in like manner-
JAMES M'HENRY, Sec'y of War. li
Jan. 7. d6w
; 1 f
1 To be Fxchanged for
Brilifii, German, or India Goods, ®
IN THE PACKAGE ;
A trai los valuable Land
In Lyetimiiig, joining that of the Holland co.
" and containing 10, goo Acres. c
Inquire of the Printer.
Jan I?. § g
' " PROPOSAL P
HAVING lhet with a liberal ra'ronage, the 4,
Subscriber is rmholdened to issue proposals
. for printing by fubf-riprion, the JOURNALS OF
, CONGRESS, from their firft meeting in 17^5,t0 "
j the present time.
t This work stall be printed with a new type,
j made fnr the puppofe ; and on good paper. It r
will be delivered at one dollar per volume (o£ta
vo) in 6 ve's.—*afh to e paid on delivery tc
5 It isneedlefsto fay thing ef the merits of a
' rfii« undertaking—th». Scarcity of the Journals v
throughout thellsited S ates, is fufficient to jsfti- in
. fy the printer in his hope of meeting with that ec
success, which he is certain, the enterprise deserves w
JOHN PARKER.
Jan. *7- d 6t ol
3 —; r- v '
PhiladeJphia & Lancaster Turn
pike Company. ['
-• if la
Jsnyary 4, in
- At a Meeting if the Prffident and Managers, "
this day. adi vidmd or 5 dollars per Jhare was J
declartdfor thelafi half year, <w'aieb<wi;i beby ;
tkem retained, for the payment of the debts of
the Company, agreeable toa rifaluttan of tbe Stock- f,
holders the 17th Jmtla/i. ' ar
' J TENCH FRANCIS,' Treafrrer u<
1 Qftbe Lancafler Turnpike Con'py. «
1, January 8 m&wtgy m
j A Gardener wanted. m
, A person well acquainted with gardening, and ,n
, who would occasionally attend market, may
1 near of a plice by applying at the u mile flone, ?'
. on the Bristol road, or No. 109, Arch-ft, -eft,
Philadelphia. A Hngle man would Se prefereric
j J 3n - Jo * iawtf D
. NOTICE.
of I \ LL persons who have any demands again/l
f- l\ the estate of VVilum Fleewtood, of
:h Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
!- ccafed, are requeued to exhibit their accounts,
■ • properly attelled ; and those who are indebted
~ to the fame, are desired to make immediate
' 1 - payment; to
S
January 4. dtf
r- All Persons
Having any demands acra : nft the Estate of the
'* late Captain Giorje Iriyin, arc requested to
e bring in their account# pioperly attelted, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
/ and those who are indebted to Caitt estate are so
' i licited to make immediate payment to
, e i SaRAH li<WIW, Adminifiratri*.
nsv. 19 1797- i
i'cr be fold,
'• A N ELEGANT COUNTRY S«AT, contain- '
story brick House and Kitchen th reon. an ajv .
Orchard, &c. lituate on the Irish traA lane, in the
town'kip of Moyamerfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars Will
' be m ide known upon application at the office of
the, Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
* elegance, Hand unrivalled.
a December I. dtf (
'• The Subscriber intends to make j
application for the renewal of a Certificate oft Shere
3 in tbe Bank of the United States, Handing in the name
3 of A. B dated July n, 1797. the fame
having been lolt. JOHN GRAHAM.
* Richmond, Dec. '■ t6w '
City Commiflioner's Office, i
January, 11th, 1797.
- FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
f npHE following arrangement is made by the
X said Commissioners, for clean.sing the {
- streets, tec.
f l iftrid No. 1. —From the north fide ef Vine j
street to the south fide of Mulberry-flreetto -
f be under the fuperintendaice of Nicholas Hicks. (
t a. From the south fide of Mulberry street, to ]
- tbe south fide of Chef;iut street to be ur.der the |
fuperindance of William Moulder. t
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to j
the north fide of Spruce street, to "be under the ]
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the 3
south fide of Cedar ftTeetyto be urrtltrthe ft
perintendaneeof Hugh Rqberti. mwfira !
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his 1
books, which have been kept open for their inflec
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the 3 rft i
flit, and will during the present month remain
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for ]
: their further investigation ajid fcrut-ny,
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 1(11798. 1
The Subscriber
INFORMS those whom it may interest or con- r
cern, that the Judg?s of the Ceurt of Common
Pleas have appointed Monday, tbe twenty-Jtutb day of '
February next, to hear him and his Creditors, at the <
Court-house in this city, on the fuhje& of hii peti- <
tion for the benefit of the Insolvent Law—and t
that their attendance is desired.
JAMES GREENLEAF. '
Philadelphia, Jan. 16. eotafithF
i Boston Glass Manufactory.
t
THE citizens of the United States are hereby j
informed, that the manufaflare of Window
Glaft is now commenced at the 01a& House in Bos
ton.
It is needlef9 to fay any thing of the eicellrtit
» greatly fuperiot to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any file commonly used ; and
may bcconftantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kdpeer, at the Glass HoHfe.
Orders from the distant States to be addrefled to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
1 £s• Two or three good Glass makers are want-
> ed at the above work? ; fnch as can produce re
. cummendations for good behavior, may be sure of
: employ, by application to Mr. George L Linot,
at the works. Men without families will be pre
; ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of making Crown Window Glass, they will meet u
■ with the fame encouragement. n
Boston, Jan. 16 aj—aaw6w %
1 - - —— a
1 Far Sale, o
The time of a young Mulatto Girl, about 1
[ twelve years old, has about eleven years to serve. ?
, She is very capable of taking care of a child,
and underiands house work. Enquire at No. n
9--, North sth street. „
i J an - »»■ *eodiw
Imported intheIhipxMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
. From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the subscriber, i
Mo. ji Walnut St.-****- — '
Bonrdeaus Brandy ~l J
Irish market claret in csfea / Entitled to
Medoc win:, in 'do. f Drawback. '
Sauterne, do. do. J C
Thomas Murgatreyd. '
VHO HAS FOR SALE. ''
Sherry Wiie in pipes and quarter calks a
Rota dc. do. o
Pimento inbags a
: 4000 bulhels Liverpool fait. 0
' Aug. 24. tut&stf.
Salisbury Estate.
: ' I "HE Subfciiber, proposing to contrast his bufi
i nef*. offers this Eil«e tor file, on moderate
terms. On it arc one Blast *nd three Air Furnaces,
1 a complete Boeing Machine, and » very good grift
' Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
- in perfeft repair, as ale all the Water Works conned-
t ed with these »arioai branches. The Air Furnaces
. were lately biilt lot the purpose ot calling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thousand acrca
of Land, onehjlf of which is under wood, the other
very fine arab!« Land, prodiwin» tbe best Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately manniactured there,
■ tully proves t>e excellency of the metal, which is C
luperior to any n this Country, and probably, equal
to any in the wirld ; for not ot fmiv-nine g:<ns
lately yude, al jough lome ot .Xhe xa were bsired
into pouoderl have failrd on proving. The fiio
t ation is veey eligible, particularly for this branch of ~
( manufaflurt, ani a place ot arret lying rn the state
of Conneflicut. ind Only 30 miles from several land •
' ings on the Hudbn's river, and having every advan
tage that can r« mlt from a plenty of water i.Tuing
■ from a Urge neural pond, very near the Furnace,
and whieh may »e converted into i variety of other 1
uleful purposes. The purciii>fer can beaccotnmodjt- I
ed with all the flock and utensils, and have psflcfliou a
Oil or before the firlt of June neKt, and prepar tion n
may be made in lie mean time for going into Blall im
mediately thereatter, for every pait will be delivered l
I in good order, v/ith some coal, Ore, 4e. Sec. For
term,, spply ta Wr Jolcph Anthony, in Philadel- a
phia; David Brooks, E!q. one of UirttepfefentaMpci
' in Congtefs lor tlwStaie ; Mr; D.v Til Wjiriman, pn
thepremiioß, or tithe piooiictor if N- W-York. (
WILLIAM NEILiOM. c
Dee. 1. 3«wtl
Pursuant to the last Vy:
"ft Teflament of Jos. He„f zcy> de „, f ■)
of posed to public &l at the
le House, m Second street, on Wedn-fE
t», irti.it 7 o'clock in the evening-!! 11} I
eH A VALUABLE LOT or piece of- r
,te ate-] on rhe weti fide of Delaware siS
bepnmng at the corner of Lombard*,
extending northward 8 i fe ( t, thene,
fret, and northward 4«"feet to an if
alky, th.-nce aloag the laid alley
- to a lo feet wide allty calle/ HI u!
thence extending by CaU k
Ik- L " mblrd »wt, wd eastward I l" 1 ' *
188 feet to rhc place «f begins/ f, ' d « f «t
of this lot is pleasant and in an * " ru »Hoa
5 2?r h * 'i s°rr'"
f„ 4 f«t in front, having bern lately fin?* !** <*
diately »ppoG,e) it has , i,'! ' ," ,mm «-
convenieir.J) divided inr , „ i, T, nu y W
10 »* f«. in fro, it, whirhtm'r »!n ' o ' s ° m
- P'T' h frr an, DIlW | ht
Price ferbt . <^ , £r- !
imcKberr.y a'ley comai- . u" ®^ c o{
n aOey 42 f«t, and ; n 1'"/^
ill U a '7 me * »Me on Ihe hack ctrt Jth '£?
of One yearly rent charge of tony &, lot
out of a lot or piece ot ground j lffuiu g
,d *La«e (in the Northern Üb c S n l ° **^'
erefled a brick mefiWe ' n whlcl > is
Alfoone oth.r yearly rent charge of ~ .
_ out of a lot or piece of ground • Ulß f
street (commonly called Artillery J in f) ' n D , u!te
uereded a frame messuage. ' on wh ":h
re Also, 100 acres of land, fituatcl m .1.
of Wcfttiortland, in the (late of i'ennfrl C ° tj
* in? in the 6th diftrifl of donation land. 'V''
w ed 1300, patented in 1786, WnW T^*"
- 119 and HO, fouthby 130J, weftby As, 1 U
by 1299. ' 113l > north t'
Also, ons military land warrant fori
Like wife, a very valuable lot or pi Pce
with a three {lory commodious brick
e frame kitrhen, situated on the east f l( j,
street from Schuylkill, and north fid e(
Saffafras street, containing on Second
feet, and on Saffafras or Race street
0 There are erefied en the preniifet befijt
'• dwelling, a convenient Barn and Stab'c
0 ly large to accommodate fevcral cow,,,
* her of neat summer-houses in the garden
ty of trees, some of which are fruit
0 pnmp with excellent water in the yard,
le perty is not more than two squares f rin i
A'hicfi will be highly advantageous tp it
ie years.' Z. "
l- Pail of "This estate is leafed for »oo 1
annum, of which two years from the jtthM.M,
next, are unexpired, a
i, wife he fold. r " t!<ePhUldeI P hii library wffl like
t Conditions will be made known at the time of
ft wlc»
n Any person wifbing to view the property, W 'J
ir plejfe to applp to 1 ' 41
JOHN WARNER,
at No. 48, north 4th street, ( .
or to EDWARD COTBBSH, £
- No. 19, south 4th street. J I
WILLIAM SHANNON.Auflioncer,
J The holders of the notes, accep-
S tences, eqdorfements and other engagements
« of Edward Fox, for account of J am <s
i- Greealeaf, are hereby notified, that Wtd
day, oti which they can adnpit,fubfcriptioi)i
to the fund assigned to them for the pay.
mentof said engagements; and uia <
holders, who do not on or before tb
make their fubferiptions, wij] be ex
y from the benefit thereof,
r. Henry Pratt,
T. IV. Francis,
t Jlf
j y o *" SfUey,
Jacob Baker.
j Jao. 29.
IN THE PRASS; —"
And speedily villi be Publi/bed,
A PLAN*
. for eftahlilhinga ceneral MARINE SOC
and Systems of R«gulati<wstfiercie;
)f Written at S&, in the year 1794 ;
Now printed for the benefit of that Inftiti
Mr TBS AVTHOR.
d K \ Xavy wouM be maintained but to aa
t useless purpefe which taking the feamrn k
merchantmen idle in port, and trading
would be as unprofitably employed, if the
all thol'c seamen of (kill and courage on brar
of war, would give them pr tedion and
their fafety. We enough for both pu
and the cultivating hand of attention alone ii
j' ing to multiply their number. «' Moneyro
' " al! naval stores, except mariners; but, u
* " supply of them is preserved, no wealth
" able to procure them."
January jo. 3
, Surveyor General's Office.
December z, 179 J.
a relcafd of survey of 4J3 acres, <4Lp«rehu
- nf lmifl, 6l&atc Li Juwci omithfield townlhip
Northampton county, furvcyed to William Wills, j
per warrant of id March, 1786. the Deputy Sur
-3 veyor hath mads the following note, viz,
This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon ani>
Geor?e Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the a 1 ove caveat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
at leafi thirty days notice fer John Hall, Secretary
of the Land Office.
AT. Luf borough.
January %6 ' §tiFjwttn
—— l - *
Coppper for Sheathiag,
For Sale, ly
SIMON WALKER,
j Pine-Jlrcct, near Fifth.
1 January 29 diw
s Flax Seed for Safe.
1 Apply to GEO. COBSON,
r No. 15 South Third street.
I J*"- «?• dtf
| Genteel Boarding and J^odgingt
S TobeJiadaLAi moJertfct: "price—fenquirc at
i No. Arch-ftreef.
Jan, 17, dtw
\ Is Cabinet Makers, Joiners, &c.
Cavanagh & Hearn,
' Pine-street, near the New-Market,
r T) ETURN thinks to their friepds aod tke
- AV public, for their liberal encouragement.
II and hope, by their unremitting attention, to ' i
1 merit a continuance of their favors. The Part-
J nerlhip between them and Joseph B. BalTv, h2«
r be»u diflolved by mutual consent. Cavanagh
_ and Hearn have just received a quantity of St. « '
, Dommgo and Honduras Mahcgoiny, which they j
! intend to fell on very reafoniblc trrmn for cafr- j
Orders from the country most punilually <\r
cuted. Vineers of all kinds cut a« 'ilual.
Jan. 15. iaw<w