skates, AND Philaddph in Daily Advertiser.
Number i 799.J
FOR LONDON,
' co PP eTSHIP
Captain Lockyer.
A considerable part of her
cargo is already engaged ; —to
fail with all convenient speed For term, ap
ply to ROSS tSf SIMSOh,
No. iai, South FrontJlreet.
j""e 'J $
For Sale by the Subscribers,
The following GOODS, just arrived in the (hip
Pigou, eapt. Clay, from Cart ton,
Eohca, t } ■'
K; fen Skin, > TEA
Young Hyfon,j '
Sugar in boxes and bags' t j
And a quantity of Cassia
ALSO, TO BE SOLD,
laid ship PIGOU,
A well known, fafl failing Ship,
oak and cedar frame, andcop
j pered She mc«£urcs 76 feet keel,
;. I 28 fee: 6 inches beam, 12 feet hold, and 6 feet
r betvresnl decks.
Mordecai Lewis,
JeJfie & Robert Wain,
William Sanjem.
jane ix, §iw
~L A N D IN 61
At Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the '
brig Amiable Matilda, William s>own,
Maftsr> from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR' SA LB.
Thomas iff John Ketland.
Said Brig for sale,
'f! 'BM^- With two P a ' r fcur prtind CAN
NON, and one pair 1 zlb. CAR
29 / yp;. §
FOR. LlVEKPuOiii "
Turnip .-■><
L /*£ E R T r,
) aa c Vredenberger, Mailer,
V g°°d nt;w vtffcl, fai'a well—
Lying at Wilcoc Its' Wharf, will fail about chu tenthof
next month, a considerable part ofrher Cargo being
•engaged*—For freight or apply to
\ JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North Frdnt Street,
B. The Liberty is intended to return one of
j ihe ilrllj fall veflelsto this port.
mty 29 dtf
JUST ARRIVED,
In the brigGayofo,cap...Bingham,fromSt.Martins
A qliantfty of SALT,
of an exccellent quality \
A few groce porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar ~, ■
saISI
Enquire of
Jehu Hollitigfworth & Co.
No. ai, Little Water ftraet, South.
April 10. §
ADVERT IS EMENT.
DESERTED from a detachment under the
command of captam'Edward Miller, fla
| tiontd at Spring Gardens.
jiuc 3d, 1798 John M'Kiflbck, |b; rn in
Ireland, county of Antrim ; $ feet 9 inches in'
height, dark hair, eyts and complexion, pock
marked, aged 28 years, ipeaks broad, mlifted
by ensign ltoot, at New Biunfwick, had on his
full regimentals, stole a blanket when he went
away, he is a drunkard awd very afluming.
June 6/>6 —-|James Crawfordi born in Chester,
State of Maflau;ufeA', brown hair, gfey eyes,
fair ccmplexior, five feet i! inches in height,
aged 24 years, by trade a blacksmith, had on
his full regimentals anil left his pi it when on
sentry.'iii 1 ilfo,
Eli'altim Stow, aprifoner, born in ?ym(bury,
Stated' Crnnedlicut, aged 36 years, blark hair
dark eyes and complexion, a repeated deserter,
very allyniing, write? a tolerable hbn4 and i. ve
ry talkative. Had on regimental (hirt and over
all when he deserted the guard.
Whoever will apprehend the above delerters
and rftujn them to Spring-Gardens in Philadel
phia, or to any officer belonging to the Uivited
Statei or tonfiiie them in any goal and give no
tice so that they may be obtained Ihall have ten
dollars reward for either of them, or thirty for
Ihe three and all reafonabW'harges paid.
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of lrfuntf^;..
» ji » The different printers i.i the unio'n'lire
requcfled to insert the above. '«•
june 11 . .
"health office.
j Philadelphia, Ijl May. 1798.
I Extra<a of an aft to alter and amend the Health
of this Commonwealth, palfed 4th «pril
1798.
n A NDbe !t fur ? ter ena<aei l the au "
Sc XI thorityaforel'aid, That evftj houfe
fceeper within the city ®f Philadelphia, the tow
jhips of the Northern Liberties and Moyam.nfing,
4nd dirtrid of Southward, within a mil. of the li
*nitscf the city, taking in boarders arriving b/fea
■or by lasd, from any foreign port or place, ami ha
ving any boarder in hisor her family, who fli3ll be
taken sick of any disease whatsoever, between the
firft day of May and the 6rft day of November in
•ally year, within twenty days next after such boar
<fcr (hall cone to lodge in his or her house, ihall
within 24' hours next after the knowledgo of such
ieknefs. make report at the Health Office of the
lame of such sick person, the time of his or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick,
and of the name and place of abode of such lioufe
keeper; whereupon the Phyficiait of the Health
flffice (hall forthwith visit the patient, and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif
esfc, that measures may be taken to prevent the
lpreadingof the infection ; and if any houfeketper
(ball negTetft to give information in the manner and
i wi'hin the time aforcfaid, and (halibe thereof con
vi&cd, in any court of criminal juriidiaion witl in
this Commonwealth, upon indi&mert by verdidl
or confeffion, he or (he (hall forfeit and pay a fine
to the use of the said hospital, not less than twenty
ijollars, nor more than ont hundred dollars, to be
imposed at the discretion »f thecourt,according to
tjie clrcumftances of greater or less aggravation at
' tending each paiticular cafe.
By cr.Vr of the Board of Hoalth,
WM iI.LEM, Health Officer,
liwjm of the Pert ot Philadelphia. j
By John Fenno, *N 0, 119 Chefnut Street
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, JUFE 16, 1798.
Pennsylvania Hospital,
6 mo. ii, 1798.
THE CONTRIBUTORS are hereby notified to
meet at the said Hospital, on 7th d3y, be-i
ixig the 23d day of this month, at 4 o'clock in the ;
afternoon, to reconsider the fixpediency of con
ftru&ing a Dome tothe centre house of the new
buildings; also, to determine on an to
be made in the sth rule, so lar as the fame refpe&s
the admiflion of poor patisnts.
By Order of a Board of Managers,
. ± SAMUEL COASF.S, Clerk.
"" .%'OT 1C L.
Persons having- any claim or demand a
gainfi the Eflate of Afsheton Humphreys late
of this city, Efq deceajed, and who' have not
rendered their accounts, a- * requeued tcr render
them immediately ; and all those <ivbo are indebt
ed to the fuid eflate or to the late firm of Afshe
ten and fames Humphreys, are requefied to pay
, their refpeSive accounts to •
Jamfs Humphreys, jun.
adminiflrator,
June 14 2a<zuim
A House and Lot in Burlington
FOR SALE.
A L ARGE commodious two ftorv brick House,
and latge well improved Gardifs; v.i h a large
Clover Lot, a liable, a Carriage House, and Spring
House, &e. in the city of Burlington, New-Jersey.
This property allow d 10 be tt«c m 11 healthy and
beautiful of any in Buriiitgton, having afrontof 360 feet
upon the r;ver, and extending 208 feet back ; bound
ed on one fide by Broad-ftf tec, and on the back by a
wide alley. "
The house is in form of a square, fronting fe£t
f uo6n Broad street, and 58 upon the river—.vitli a
p&moot water at the back door, bcficles two tine
i'prings riling out at the beau iful bank between the
garden and the river.
For patticulara, apply at No. 5, South Fourth
ftreet, 10
GEO. WALKER.
IVho has also For Sale,
Lots in Washington City.
j""C '3' 3 [
John Miller, Jun.
, N<*, .8, ESN'UT STREET,
Has received, the Richmond from Calcutta
A QiiaKtity of Sugar.
Weft India Mutcovado quality,which h«i pffyrsfor
sale very tkw for cash or 'it.6o days.
HE HAS ALSO ON HAND*
A variety of "B"rijs(h DryS(poods,
whidh he will difp.ofeofbn the moll reatanable
terms. 1
India Calicoes by the Bale, kc.Uzc.
June 5 dW
TO LET, \
The Houle No. 83,
I Chefnut, a few doors below Third street.
It is in g<f®d*repair, and a capital Stand for any
kind of-inifiuefs. Apply as above.
jury 5- ____ ' S
Bourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhds.
in half hhds.
r Ittyfr*:' -
e > Wine 9in Caks.
Sauterne (
Lundi «
Red Skins
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee..
60,000 • Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of whi/eHavanna Sugar —and
50 Hogftifeads of Tobaacd
. FOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
junei t , dtf
This Day is, Publiihed,
AND FOR SA LE BY J. FENNO, I i g,C HE S N UT-S 1 -R EET
. AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, prbgrefs and prefcßf (late of
French aggrcilion, with a sketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government ofcthe United
States, and sonic reflections on th<j la».e proceedings
in Congrels ; laft of Aptil in the pre
sent year, by a Member of the House 'pt cpreftn
tatives. s*'L ' " j" ne "
Choice %, Croix Sugars,
SALE BY
* ' • James Yard,
ALSO,
A few pipes of remarkably Madeira '.Vine,
fit for immediate iufe, and at a reduced
june 4 J J - » diet
To be Sold, i/i BurjVfefon,
Immediately yli«rl en the nivcr De
• \X "tfware, .
A Large ne\¥ two story bficlc rioufc, and Lot
Axty l*et lh front and one-hundred deep—
The House consists of two large parlours, one -7
by 21, the other 19 by 21, an entry in. the mid
dle, three large bed chambers fqiall one
well finiibed garrets, a large kitchen, pjfotry,ftore
rodm, &c. with good cellars, good water and gar
den, all new, well, finilhed and in perfeik'order,
lmm.ediatee poffeflion will be given. Enquire of
Edward Bonfall & Co. or of Francis Purdin, Bur
lington, who wiH inform the price and jmeW tfye
premiles. may 24 '3taaw
~ FOR SALEi '. j( .
Two three story Brick Ho^fts
With convenient stores, wbjrf, sic. fuuittort
Water street, between Mulberry ajr] SaffitVas
Streets, containing in front on Water ftreef fit
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then ijvrieninpr 'to the
south thirteen feet fix laches. Theft houses
hive the convenience of a pubrc alley adjain
rng on the north fide, and area
uation for a a merchant, flourfaflgr, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property wili be fold on very reafcnable
terms sot ra(h. For further infor'rtation apply
to the printer. April mAwtf
TO BE LET,"
And Pojfcjpon given Immediately.
r-pHAT "well known fland called, Email's
X ta/erii, fignof the B'ack horse at the east
end of Bedford. This (land is attended with
many advantages ; there are two houses, the
one stone and the other frame adjoining, each
other, well fiirihed and upon a very convenient
plan ; the (tabling new and large ahd a pump at
the door—befidesy there are but two taverns in
the town. The terms and time of leafing will
be made known by application to
Dr.' John Anderfon,
Hf the Uvjn of BeJfo rd
may 11. ia*6w
United States. 1
Pennsylvania Di//ri3. j ■ '
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT in pursuance of a Writ to me dire&cd,
fi'om the Hon. Richard Teters.Eiq. Judge of
the DiQViA Court of the United State*, in and for I
the Pennsylvania Ditlri.sl, will be exposed to pub
lic sale Bt the Custom-House, in rhe City of Phil
adelphia, on Friday, the aoth day of June, inft.
at i a o'clock at noon
4 Bags of Coffee, and
5 Hampers of I'orter.
The fame having been libelled against, profe
cured andcondemwed as forfeited in the said court.
William Nichols, MarfliaJ.
Mar(hal\ Office, )
June sth, '9B 3
liy virtue of a decree of the honorable the
of Chancery of Maryland, the luhfcnber will fell
at Public Sale, on the prcmiles, on Monday, the
«sih of J\lne next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
r ~T AT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
JL No.- 53, a*d part of #Jo. 54, lafe ,the property
of Nicholas Sluby, merchant of this city, fituatcd on
Thames-ftieet, in that part of* Baltimore ci:y, called
Fells-Point, containing 58 square perebe*, with all
the buildings and irnpiovements therenn. There are
erected on this valuable property, fcvdral large and
commodious b«i k Warehonfes, contain
ing from T5 to 20,c00 barrels of flour, Wkh a frame
shed adjourning thereto, lufliciently c3pacio;»s to
hold 1000 hogfheid of Tobacco; in pcifefi fafety
from the weather. From this well known property
is extended into the deepefl water in this hj)>bo», an
extenfiveaod well con!lrn.6led whaif,bounding On the
wa.erfico feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing Chips of burthen at the lowed >ticUs. From
the many ad is property is known to roflefs, 1
it is elteeme'd equal if not fupcrior, in point of com
mercial benefit, to any in this city, and mull be a de
firableob e6l to those inclined to purchase so valuable
an.eflate. It is unnecelfary to fay nipre on this fub
jeft, as those intending to purchase, will have an op
portunity of viewing the prdmfes .previous to the
day of sale I
The terms on which the afcove property is fold,
are, that the purchaser lhall give r.egoiiable
notes, with security to the truftec foj the payment of
one half the .purqhafe money with, intcreft, within
three months, and the residue with-intereft, within
fix months from the dayof sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
may
I hereby give Notice,
TO all my creditors, that I have applied by pe
tition to the judges of the court of common
plea* for the county of Philadelphia, at their ses
sion in June term in this mosth, praying that they
would extend to me the benefit ot an aft of Gen
eral Assembly of this Commonwealth, palled the
4th day of April, 1798, entitled " An Act pro
viding that rhe perlon of a debtoiftall not be lia
ble to imprisonment for debt'after delivering up
[ hiseftatc for the bene6t of his cncditor*, unlefshe
hath been guilty of fraud or emoezzlemeißc," and
L that the laid court hath appointed Monday the
25th day of June instant, at 10 o'clock, P. M. to
1 hear me and my creditors at such place as the court
Ciall be held, where they may a«end if they think
proper. JOUti GRAHAM.
June ii §t3s
fcphra 111 CfaVk,
CLOCK & IV AT QH MA KE R,
• -- Q»rne*ofJ<4Qßij?nd Pvlarkit Strtet.
WHERE he is just opening a
supply of clock dials, calk brass, bells, for
ged work and pinions, pumice stone and emery,
iheet br fs, hard and bench vices, witch and ctoc
plyers., large arid small files, {hot aad knee chapes,
chains, fealsand keys, gold, gilt andfilver watch
es, ipringand weight -clocks,
jiina 1 z tuscstf
Military l .Colours,
POINTED ON- SILK—BY
George Rutter Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure the hardlhips of the
weather without injury, and which
and exaditude of colouring cannot be surpassed in
this city.
FLAGS ANtt DRUMS
with dispatch, "ten th« in oft moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, S'gns,
fire buckets, 3cc. accomplished in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rui/tr pledges
himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of his friends and the
public. ■ ? '
In the Military Jtine,
A variety of specimen's may be ieen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library. ,
may 3 . . d6w
NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifrjmept of C.
Gullagsr, in.term 9 deroiratory of our pro
fclfional abilities, we Jhajrc to requelt the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits of each by a companion ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
univerfstlly addpted by tliem to invalidate tha ta
lents of eilahliihed artists, with a view of deceiv
i ing the public, and engrossing which
their profeflional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr". Oullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew theoectf
fity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to thj
felf-flattering advertifeinent* cf Mr G.
Any person wilhing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Qeo. Ruttpr and
Co. Koiria' Ceurt, or Henry GermaE
towii. §6w may 8.
CANNON,
Mufkct and Pistol .Cartridge Papers,
A LARGE ASSORTMENT
Is now ready for sale by William Young,
Bosh feller, No. 52, Second Street, the
corner of Chefuut Jlreet.
OF WHOM MAV BE HAD
Baron Steuben's Regulations for tic* Order and Difct
pline of the Troops cf the United States.— To which it
added, an a£} of Congreft concerning the Militia, price
50 cents ; do. large prints 67 cents.
W. Young,
Has for sale, on the loivcjl terms, for cajb or negotiable
Notes, v
Large writing, printing paper,
ALSO,"
Foolscap, PoJi> Folio and 4 to. Pyl of various fixes,
gilt and plain ; ink poHvd.r Jealing wax, wafers, pocket,
inkjlands, black lead pencils, quills, rulers, cafe* of ma
thematical injlruments, gunter scales, parchment and ffs
Jh'tn memorandum boots, pen knives, india rubber ard !t:i,
may 12 ' ™
Lands for sale by private Contract,
I Proposals will be received, by the fubferiber.
until the firlt day of Septtmber next, for the
purchafe of any ( f the following very valuable
tradU of land with their improvements.
In the State ©f New-York,
No. 1. Two lots of ground fttuate In the
county of Albany in the town called Lanfirig
burgh, and cJiftinguiffced or known on a map «f
said town by the names of No. 71 and 72.
2. Two tradb cf land situate in the town of
WeU-Chefler, the one of them near Oliver De
lanry's, John Cox'&and John Palmer's land, ad
joining Brouhs River,' the other of them near
DevilajxTi fnufT mill, Delancy's land and ad
joining" orouVjs}river the whole containing about
84 acre!
io',. A trafl cf land situate in the county of
West-Chester, 011 the road from Kings-bridge
to Delancy's Milis containing about acres.
4- A tracfl ot"|i»nd lituate in Montgomery
county, !bdibjf a part of the trad! called Jeilup's
, purchase aridlenown and diltinguiihed in a divi
sion of the said pwrchafe into townftupsby being
part of township No. 4. beginning at the S W.
| bound® of said a at the l'outlierly cor
ner of laid townfUttl-containing by eft'.mation
about 5611 acres.*'*
5. A or land in the county of
Montgomery, atore.Oid, be ng also a pan of
Je(Tup's known and diAinguiihed
in divifionof the said into townships,
by being part of townihip No. 31 beginning at
S. W.bounds of said fownfliip *t the diihnce of
262 chains and 50 links from tne mofklotitherly
corner thereof.
6. A tradi of lar»d situate in Ulster county,
part of the ira£l.of land known by the
name of the Grcal Or Hardenburghs patent, con- ;
uining about 6coo acres. ;
7. A tra<fi of land situate in'the county of
Ulster aforefaid on the N. E. lide of the river
Delaware, being also 4 part of the land K-.rmer
ly granted to Johannes Hardenburgh and pthers
commonly known by the name of the Great
patrnt it being a part of a great lot No. 1. in
the general partition of said patent which came
to the Ihare of Thomas Newharn one of the
proprietors, and is know:* and diflinguiflied on
the mass of the fub-diviljon ther«crf made by
Charles Webb, surveyor in the year 1751 by
lot No. 60 ;. this land runs some distance on the
Fiver Delaware and contains abo»t 3157 acres.
8. A tratf of land in the counW of Ulster a
forefaid in the south tier of lot**in the Harden
burgh patent being lot N,<s.V ia, containing
about i2,6soacres ut 320 acres
heretofore grant by l{6bert R'. Uivingfton to
Nathaniel Sachel.
9. A tra<sl of landiljluate in the county of Ul
ster, beginning on th r e Papekunk river, and ad
joining tne 14th monument in the general divi
fioo of the Hardenburgh patent, containing,
about 3060 acres)
10. TWo eqiial bttdivided seventh parts of two
f several parcels of lands Ififbite in the townships
oft Chemung in the county of Tikga on ,the S.
W.TilJe 'of Tioga river, the fame being part of
a tradt of about 20,'000 acres, these seventh;
contain about 5763 acres.
11. One equal and undivided part of
the said 20,000 acre tratfl in Tioga cotihty being
about 2,&&6_acr£4» \
12. Onif equal and rifffrMded fbvet i itTi"parf*of
said 20,000 acre trafl in Tioga county being al
so about 2,836 acres.
In the State of Maryland.
13. A tradl of land now called Bayley's pur
chase in Prince Gcrorge's county, near to a bay
or cove called, Anocoftin cove, containing about
1212 acres of prime land.
14. A tratfl of land called Fortune Enlargrd,
and part of a tracft called Beall's adventure\u
larged, both lying in Prince George's county on
the eastern branch of the Potomack, containing *
about (16 acres.
rj. A tra& of land with the howfe and im
provemertt called Aron, lying on thL* "fcaftcrr.
brarfch of the river Potomack, oppr.fue to the
city of Washington in Prince G-orge's county
containing about 175 acres.
16- A trait of iaud with the houses, nulls,
other buildings and improvements lying near
Fort Cumberland in the county o. Washington
containing about 2<*£3 acres.
17. A tra<£l of land situate m the county cf
Waibington, adjoining to Fort Cumberland,
containing 400 acres or thereabouts.
184 One undivided moiety of a trail of land
in Allegany county, called spruce spring, the
whole or which contains about izo acres, also.
one undivided moici'v of tracts or lots of
ground, each of vhicn contains about 50 a<srcs,
3n'd are riumbered from 500 to 799 inclusive,
orr.itting and excepting three lots which aredif
tinguiftied by the numbers 661, <162 and 684 all
which said lands adjoin, •
In the State qf Virginia-
A tr.vfl of laud wa*h conliderable
improvemen|fc lying ontfunter's creek,Dorrell's
creek, Mud ay creek arid- the <sver Potomack ;
and adjoining the city of "Alexandria containing
by patent 295 acres. i
Edwqrd Fax, aii&ioneer.
Philadelphia. fune stb, 1798. 2aw
LOS T, j
ON THE FOURTH INSTANT.
A 'NO IE OF HAND, George Peunock, to
J. Dorfey, and S. M. Fox, which fell due
on that day and was du.'y paid. The Bank receipt
i» on it, therefore it is ufelcfs to any other than the.
owner. The parties will be oblige to any person
who fhull return it.
June 8 3taw3w
"" FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
50 Chests of Prime Teas,
CONSISTING of Imperial, fly;fori, Souchong,
HyfonSkin, YounjjfHyfon and 3ohea, just ai
rived in the Ships Sampson and Ontario ; several com
plete lets of elegant China ; 1000 pieces of Nankeen |
of superior color vid qualify; a tew pieces of com- 1
morr Madrafs Handkerchiefs ; a large quantity of In- .
dia Silks, confiiling of Luteflripgs, Sarlnets, Perfiant,
See See. of difL-rent colors.
a lso, for sale—Entitled to the drawback,
5000 boxes of Pate Grade Cheese
in excellent order for exportation, just received by
the Ihip Juno and Jol'eph from Amftcrdam.
7*. B. Freer.an,
No. 39 South Fron:-ftrect, or at his counting
house, No. 40, South Water-flrect.
may 30. nifSt
The Cargo of the Brig-Minerva
FROM BOURDEAUX,
COHSI ST! NG OF
Claret in hhds.and Cases
Oyl,Capers, Olives, Anchovies aad Prunes
F«R S/.LK BV
7 homas Fitx/imons
mav 26. i4',v
[ Volume XIII.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Friday, May 25.
THE bill providing for a more effeftu'
al collection of certain Internal Re re
nues of the United States was read the third
time and passed.
Mr. Otis presented an address from New
town, Mallachufetts, approbating the con
duit of the Executive in refpett to their ne
gociation with the, French Republic, an»l
exprefiive of their determination to fuppor;
the future meafurea of government.
Mr. Cra IK presented a similar address from
Frederick County, Maryland; and Mi<.
Thomson a ttmilar one from Trenton and
the vicinity.
Mr. Brent picfented sundry resolutions
bf three companies of Militia of jLttlburg
and Fairfax County, in Virginia, depreca
ting any mealures which fiiall have a tenden
cy to involve the country in w r ; but in cafe
the United States (hould be invaded, they
express a determination to come foi ward i(i
ils fnpport.
Tliefe addreflfes ai.d resolutions were re
ferred as usual.
Mr. Harper, from the committed tff
ways and tutai a, o whom was referred the
memoriah of Jonathan Jackson and Abel
Whitney, report id a bill to regulate the
compewiation of offictrs for collecting the
Internal Revenues of the United States,
which was twice rea . and committed lor
Mor.day.
The house went into a committee of the
wl)ole on the bill fupplenientury t anad for
the relief of perlous irnpriluned for debt,
which was agreed to, and ordered to be read
a third time to morrow.
The house next went into a committee of
the whole on the bill providing lor relief of
persons imprifoued for debt due to the Unit
ed States ; when some debate took place on
a qncftion :o determine whether the benefit
provided by this a t ftiould be extended to
persons imprifoneu on Mefne Pn.cefs, as well
as to those imprisoned 011 judgments. The
motion moved by Mr. Harper to extend
the benefit to periods confined under Mefne
Process was negatived 48 to 29. The bill
was then agreed to, and ordered to be
read ? third time to-morrow.
Mr. SitgreAvss then proposed to the
house arelolution to the tollowing effeil:
" Rejoined, that the Attorney General of the
United States be directed to prepare and report
to this house the plan of a general laiv for the re
lief of Infofoent Debtors, who may be '.mprifoned
by •virtue of process oyt of any Court of the Unit
ed States, and tuhojbaU be 'willing to make an
alignment of their estates and effects for the be
nefit of their creditors." ,
Ordered to lie on the table till to-mar.
row.
Mr. Sewall, from the committee for
the protection of Commerce and the defence
of the country, to whom were referred Mr.
Sitgreaves's resolutions for inftrueting the
commanders of our public and private arm
ed vefTels, and also the bill frofii the Senate
for the farther protection of the Commerce
and Coalts of the United States, repoftfll
it as the opinion of that committee thstUhe
b U from the Senate ought 10 be to
by the houle.
Thi.i report was twice read, and ordered
to be committed to a committee of tne
whole.
On the Speaker's alking for what day
this bill Ihould be made the order, Monday,
to-morrow and to-day, were named.
The quetlion was firlt taken on Monday,
and negatived 43 to 37.
The queltion ri-as U.en jut upon to mor
row.
Mr. Gallati\ hoped this bill would be
made the order for to-morrow, s.s the bill
had only been printed this morning, a.,d the
report but this uv-AeAt made. * It would be
a very extraordinary proceeding to make
this very important bill the oruer for this
day. *
Mr. I. Williams said th'i was a very
extraordinary cafe. When we learn every
day that our vtflels are taken by the'Fi'ench
crnilers, without any cattle wuatcver, it is
necrffary to att with piecilion. 1 his day
had been (pent 0:1 very trifling bufmefs com
pared with this, and he hoped the house
wouid fit until this biil was gone throw h
Mr. M'Dowell hoped tins bill would be
made the order tor to-morrow, as it had on
ly been laid upon the table this morning,
&few gentlemen had yet turned theirati<n:ion
to it. Besides the usual hour of adjiura
ment is arrived, and he hoped gentlemen
would not infill upon hMrry ng so important
a bill through the house in this manner. The
gentleman from New York remarked that
the house had been engaged in trifling busi
ness all the day ; but tic obfe-rved that gen
tleman I'iit vei y contented y under the dis
cussion, tho.igh he u„w fcems fo'defiroUi of
expediting this business.
Mr. SewALL was impressed with the ne
ceflity of palling this bill as fron as poffibK-.
If the lommittee had thought they mlMit
with propr ety have taketi time to deiiheratf
upon this fubjift, ti.ey would not have
made this report, but have taken into confil
deration the resolutions which had been re
ferred to them with this bi 1 ; but fir.dinr
it necuflfary that our armed vessels fhpuld re
ceive their inf!rations immediately, that
they may go out and take the vessels . n th»
coast, or drive them off, they made th's re.
port, intending hereafter to report father
upon the subject. But the present
tlity thought necessary, from the peculiarity
of our present lituation ; the dangers attend
ingwhicb ibe people without fctmed to belully'perfliided if. And as thitfubjefthad
hieea ully difcufltd 011 the refol tions which
i.ao CKtyi before the house, he hoped the
bill would he immediately taken up ; as he
wished to provide without delay for the de
fence of our cast as far as our force would
permit.
Mr. M acon faidit was verv extraordina
ry indeed, that gentlemen should wifti to
hurry this bill through the house in the way
pjopofed. It appeared as if they' were afraid
of any thing coaling from our Commission
er» before tliey got the cuuniry in war. Be
ing now the usual hour of adjournment, it
could not be expefted that if the house went
into this bill, that a >y debate could take
place. Indeed gentlemen seemed to wish to
prevent debate as much as poffihle ; a few
days a.ro, they had got a rule parted that no
person ftouU speak more than once to any
question. and now by moving to go into a
committee of the whole at the honr of ad
join • ment, they wish to prevent them from
speaking or.ce, and that upon a bill which
J»ill ceitainly place the country in a state of
war. Ke thought a re«ard to decency ought
to prevent gentlemen from pushing this mo
tion.
Mr. Lyon called upon gentlemen to con
sider the importance of this bill. He con
fidtrcd it a 6 a declaration of war as it now
Hands, and he hoped time be given
to consider the whether some amendment
could net be introduced 'nto it, foas to pre
vent its being so considered. At present,
he believed, it was direfHy in the face of the
laws of nations. He was desirous of avoiding
war if poflible. His constituents also wilh
eii it He had received at lead 200 letters
requesting him to do all in his power to pre
vent it Indeed he was afraid of the con
sequences of war ; he was a I raid it might
produce even a diffolu ion of the present go
vern men'.
Mr. Brent was proceeding to express his
astonishment at the conduit of gentlemen in
w fhing to press so important a fubjeft upon
the Wife, when members were impatient to
adjourn, when
Mr. Sewall rose and withdrew his mo
tion, and the bill was made the order of the
day for to-morrow.
Mr. Harper laid before the honfe a let
tcr from the See etary of the Treasury to
the Chairman of the Committee of Ways
and Means, on the fubjeft of the land tax,
which v.aa ordered to be printed and the
house adjourned.
Macpherfon's Blues.
BATTALION ORDERS,
June 15th, 1978
THE BLUES are to alfctnble, for the pur
pose of Exercise. in full uniform, on Monday
next at 5 o'clock in the morning, on the usual
parade, Centre Square.
ROBbRT HEYSUAM, Adjutant,p. t.
N. P.. In future, when the Blurs are ordered
to afiemble, it' is to be understood that they are to
appear in full uniform, and at the ufualparade t Hn
lefs the orders express the contrary.
Infantry Company.
THOSE young men, who arc willing to
form an uniform Lish: Infantry Company, to be
attached to one of the regiments of Militia of
the city of Philadelphia, are rcquefted to meet at
Yohe's tavern, the sign of die White Swan, in
Race street, on Saturday evening, at o'clock.
June 15
Artillerists ! Attention !
THE 6th Company of the Regiment of
Philadelphia Artillery, being a part of the
80,000 militia, ordered by the President of
the United Stites, " to be in readiness to
march at a moment's 'warning,"—it i 8 ex
pe&ed, as the members have been duly no
tified, that they will, at this important and
eventful crifi.s, evince a laudable ambition to
appear and ad as citizen Soldiers, in defence
of our Liberties and Independence, as se
cured by the Federal and State Constitu
tions and Government, under favor of divine
Providence.
The free, independent Citizens of Phila
delphia, Southwark and the NorthernLiher
ties, are invited to join the said Company,
upon the terms of appealing in complete
uniform, agreeably to the rights and privi
lege* secured to the " Volunteer Corps of
Artillery," by the 1 ith feftioi of an aft of
Congress, patted the Bth of May, 1792,
and the 3d fedion of the present militia
law of this state.
N. B. An Eleftion for a Second Lieut,
will be held at Capt. Handel's, in Race
ftreet, next Monday afternoon, at 7 o'clock,
where the punftual attendance of the mem
bers is expe&ed.
JOHN WOODSIDE, Captain.
June 14.
£/■ Attention ! Artillery Blues.
THE Gentlemen who have enrolled
themselves in order to form the above Com
pany, are desired to meet on Saturday even
ing, 16th June, at 7 O'clock, at George
Hill's, No. 130, North Second-street, sign
of the Buck, to eleft Officers, determine
upon uniform, and form bye-laws. Appli
cants, previous to that time, will enjoy the
privilege of voting.
June 14.
Editors of newspapers will please to give
the above a place.
Volunteer Rifle Company.
THE Citizensof Philadelphia and the North
ern Liberties, who are disposed to join
said company, in support of the Liberty and
Laws of their country, are informed that arti
cles of aflbciaiion are left at the houses of John
llaine?, iro. 133, llreet, John Coyle, no.
303, f*»d street, and at the counting house of
Obadiah Stockton, corner of gth and High
ltreets, where able bodied, adive citizens are
invited to enrol themselves.
•£jT The Printers in this city are requejled to
givj the above a fe tv publications.
June 12
FOR SALE,
800 pieces of Sari Cloth *•
10 leas of Sheet X.ead
Apply to
'JOSEPH AXTHONT & a.
June Ij-J §
%ljt dsa3»ette,
PHILADEL PHIJ,
SATURDAY EVENING, June 16.
CONGRESS.
Yesterday the House of Representatives of
the United States resumed tbe consideration
of the bill ftipplementary to, and to amcud
the ait authorizing the President of the Uni
ted States to raifea Provisional Army, when
the amendment moved yesterday to confine
the loaning of arms to the Volunteers to field
pieces, instead of fmallarms and accoutrements,
came again under consideration, and was ne
gatived 41 to 54. Mr. Sew all then moved
an additional to the bill authorizing
the President of the United States when he
(hall think proper to appoint such Officers as
he may deem neceflary for the more fpe.edy
raising of the Provisional Army, whenever
the Public Service (hall require them. This
motion was negatived 39 to 41. Mr. Bay
ard proposed an amendment providing that
the Volunteers should not be compelled to
march beyond the limits of a State adjoining
to that to which they belong. This motion
was negatived theie being only 19 votes in fa
vour of it. Mr. Dayton proposed to far
ther amend the bill by adding the word " le
gions" so that the Volunteers may be termed
into legions, regiments or battalions. This
'motion was agreed to without objection or di
vilion. The committee then rose, and the
House having concurred in the amendments
of the committee of the whole, Mr. Sewall
renew ed his motion for adding a new fe«stion
to the bill, authorizing the President to ap
point the officers to the Provisional Army
when he shall think proper, and the question
was taken by Yeas and Nays as follow :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Allen, Melfrs, Hofmcr,
Bartlert, Imlay,
Bayard, Kittera,
Brooks, S. Lyman,
Bullock, Matthews,
Champlin, Morgan,
Cochran, Otis,
Coit, I. Parker,
Craik, Reed,
' Dana, Rutledge,
Dennis, Schureman,
' Edmond, Sewall,
■Evans, Sinnickfon,
A. Foster, Sitgreaves,
D. Foiter, N. Smith,
J. Freeman, Thatcher,
Glen, Thomas,
Goodrich, Tillinghaft,
Gordon, Van Alen,
Grifwold, Wadfworth,
Harper, 41
NAYS.
Messrs. Baldwin, Meflrs. Heifter,
Bard, Holmes,
Benton, Jones,
Blount, Locke,
Brent, Lvon.
Burgess, Macon,
Chapman, M'Clenachan
T.Claiborne, M'Dowell,
W.Claiborne, Millcdge,
Clopton, New,
Dawfon, Shepard,
Davis, S. Smith,
Dent, W. Smith,
Fowler, ' Sprigg,
Gallatin, Sumter,
Gillefpie, A. Trigg,
Gre gg> J- Trigg,
Hanna, . Varnum,
Harrifon, • R. Williams.
Havens, 39
General Sm ITH then renewed his motion to
prevent any other arms being lent to the Vo
lunteers besides field pieces, the question »n
which was taken by Yeas and Mavs follow :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Allen, Meflrs. Holmes,
Baldwin, Jones,
Bard, Locke,
Benton, Lyon,
Blount, Macon,
Burgess, M'Clenachan
T. Cleiborne, M'Dowell,
W. Claiborne Milledge,
Cloptons New,
Dawfon, S. Smith,
Fowler, Sprigg,
Gallarin, Stanford,
GiMefpie, Sumpter.
Gre gg> J-Ti'gg,
Hanna, A. Trigg,
Harrifon, Varnum,
Havens, R. Williams.
Heitter, 35 .
NAYS.
Meflrs. Bartlett, Meflrs. Hindman,
Bayard, Hofmer,
Broooks, Imlay,
•Bullock, Kittera,
Champlin, D.Lyman,
Chapman, Matthews,
Cochran, Morgan,
Coit, I. Parker,
Craik, Reed,
Dana, Rutledge,
Davis, Schureman,
Dennis, , Sewall,
Dent, .Shepard,
Edmond, Sinnickfon,
Evans, Sitgreaves,
A. Foster, N. Smith,
D. Foster, W. Smith,
J. Frecmun, Thatcher,
Glenn, Thomas,
Goodrich, Thomson,
" Gordon, Tillinghaft,
Grifwold, Van Allen,
Harper, Wadfworh.
46.
The bill was then ordered to be engrofl'ed
for a third reading to-morrow.
The bill providing Arms for the Militia
throughout the United States was read the
third time and paired, by Yeas and Nays 55
to 17. The seventeen negatives were Melfrs.
Aller, . artlett, Bullock, Chapman' Dana,
Edmond, A. Foster, D. Foster, Glen, Gregg,
Grifwold, Itaac Parker, Schureman, Sewall,
Sitgreaves, Thatcher, and Tillinghaft.
The resolutions laid upon the table some
days ago by Mr. Harper appropriating a Aim
of money tor defraying the expence of the
additional regiineut or artillery and engineers,
and to authorize the President to obtain such
a loan of money as may be neceflary fotLthe
expences of the government for the present
year, over and above the current Revenue,
were taken lip in tjie committee of the whole,
agreed to, and bills ordered to be reported
accordingly.—The house meets to day.
To tic PRESIDENT of tic UNITED STATES.
AMONG che numerous c:l. f* of our fellow
citizensof Jersey, who have evidenced to our Ex
•cutivct, and the othtr branches of our government,
hcii inviolable attachment, end determined rcfo
ul ion, to support that government,—permit the
'r*nd Jury of Burlington to approach you on this
all important and trying occafinn
It is an untruth—and we thus publicly declare it
t.'.a: the pceple of the United States ert * i.-iidtd
p—ple : tlicy have long Icncwn, and happily expe
rienced, ti*e Hlefiings rcfultingfrom a conlhrutieri, .
founded on the will and of people, 3nd
admire v.ith gratitude the adrr.inittration thereof,
•6nd are determined never to fee it ahufed, or the
American name traduced with impunity.
We mod unitedly accord with tr.efe sentiments,
and offer to you. our absolute continuance of a con
fidence hitherto in no wife impaired. The pru
dent and fir-! that have be<-n pursued by
our Executive, to maintain the digniry and iodfli- j
pendence of these United States, are evidences
which strengthen that alliance, and will give us
f jpport in tbe itioft trying troubles which may
hereafter await us
The spoliations on our commerce, and the abuse
of t'nt persons and property of our cit zens, meet
With ou/ abhorrence and delegation, and we here
by engage to unite with you and the other branch
es of our government, in every proper and legal
measure, to feenre to us, our rights as a nation,
and maintain the cffefils, flowing from aiUre
of peace.
Signed b^the unanimous or*3er of the Grand Jury.
CALta NEWBOLD, Foreman.
Israel Ridc.v/ay, Clerk.
Burlington County, May, 17^8.
To tie GRAND JURY of tbe County of Burlinpon.
GENTLEMEN,
I READ with pleasure in this addreft, your
declaranion, that it is an untruth, that the people
of txe United States are a divide i people, that
they have lon#known, and happily experienced, j
the hk-ffinjjs refultingfrom a conftitlKion, founded i
on the will and conf»nt of the people, tluit you
admire with pratitude the adiuiniftration of it, and
that you are determined'never to fee itubufed, cr
the American name traduced with imp unity
Tha be ft criterion by which a republic is to be
tried, and the moil infallible judgmen.* of its du
ration, is to be formed from.it* unanimity, again ft
foreign influence, and lorcign hostility. The mo
ment a party is formed, abandoneyi enough to re
f«rt to foreign influence for support, that moment
hiay be confide-ed, as-the commencement, of the
declin« and fall of a republic.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June xoth, 1798.
\
The following add reft was presented to tbe Pre
fider.t of tbe V ited States, by the Senators
and Rcprefentatii'es of tbe State of Georgia.
To JOHN ADAMS,
President of tbe United States.
SIH
The underwritten inhabitants of the city of
Savannah and its vicinity imprefled with the
value of national independence, and of the wis
dom and virtue which have charadterifed a gov
ernment so happily calculated to enfnre and pre
serve this blelhng, cannot withhold their appro
bation to the measures which you have pursued
at a juncture so critical to the United States, as
the present.
Fondly anticipating the reftotation of agood
1 understanding on principles compatible with
justice and honor, with a nation for whom A»
merica had always manifefted sentiments of the
most real and undisguised friendfbip, they saw
with pleasure the departure of the commifiion
ers entrusted with this objedt, whose periona!
chancers juftified an entire confidence (and
which the event has proved not tohave been mif
-1 placed) that no suitable means would be neg
le£ed in ptiffuingthe important-ohjedt of their
tnilTion. And notwithftandirg the painful and.
inexprefiible fenfajion which the conduct of men
at the head of a government once our allies and
friends excited, there remains a consolation, that
the cause and refpoufibility of this conduct
will reft *on themfeives alone. And it s with
great pleasure that we congratulate you Sir, and
our country on the wife and prudent measures
you have pursued for the preservation of p&ace
and the protection of our independence ; we
believe that you have done as much for the oh
tainment of the firft of these obje&s as a due
regard for the other would juitify or permit
and should the last argument of nations, a relort
to arms, become indifpcnfiblt far the prote&ion
of those rights whivb are the most dear to us—
We pledge ourselves for the support of our gov- ;
ernment, by which alone they can be secured,
and at the hazard of our lives and properties to
convince the world that we will-take no (hare in
the difgraceof being confideredadivided people.
, Signed by 362.
To tbe Inhabitants of the city of Savannah and
its virility in the State ef Georgia.
GENTLEMEN,
I thank you for this address, which as it comes
from a relpetflable portion of the ugion so re
mote from the feat of government, and exprefT
es sentiments, so noble spirited and patriotic,
has given me as much pleasure as any I haye
ever received.
Painful indeed, and inexprefiible are the sen
sations which the eonduft of men at the head of
a nation, once our allies and friends has excited ;
the refponilbility of their conduit mult reft on
themfeives alone.
I thank you for your congratulations to me,
and to our Country, and for your candid tefti
oiony in favor of the wisdom and prudence of
the measures pursued for the preservation of
peace and protection of our independence.
Peace and Independence, united have indeed
been my objects, and I rejoice in your opinion,
which corresponds with my own, that as much
has been done, for the attainment of the firft of
these objects, as a due regard for the other would
juftify or permit.
Reason is not heard, or if heard is despised,
and nothing within my knowledge remainsbut
the last argumentof nations.
The honorable pledge of your lives, and pro
perties for the support of government, and to
convince the world that you will take no lhare
iH the disgrace of being considered a divided
people, is very fatisfa<ftory and greatly to your
honor.
JOHN ADAMS.
j Philadelphia, June 6th, 1798.
, £ aft on, Maryland.
; At a meeting of the Justices, the Grand
; and Petit Jurors, and the Officers of Talbot
• County Court, and of a numerous and re
-1 fpe&able Body of the People of the County,
' afTembled at Eafton, on the 29th clay of
' May, in the year 1798, in pursuance of
- previous notice, for the purpose of confider
-1 ing the situation of their public affairs, and
- of exprtffing their sentiments concerning
» them, John Roberts, Esquire, was unani
] moufly chosen Cnairman, and Nicholas
J Hammond, William Perry, William Hay
ward, Thomas James Bullitt, John Leeds
, Bozman, Samuel Chamberlaine, Hugh
1 Sherwood, John Hughes and Perry Ben
fon, Esquires, were appointed a Committee
to prepare an address to the President of the
United States, in approbation of his con
du£ in his negociations with the Republic
of France, and declaring the determination
of the people to fuppoit the government,
and the rights and independence of their
15 country.
t Whereupon the Committe retired, and
/ after some time returned, and reported the
following addrefp, which, was twice read,
a-.id linanimoufly adopted.
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
THE People of Talbot county, fn the
llate of Maryland, impr-fTed in common with
their fellow-citizens, wirh a lively sense of
the critical iituation of their public affairs,
feci it a duty which they owe to their cohh
try and themfeives, to address to you the
sentiments which the present occasion has
inspired.
We had hoped that the moderation, wis
dom and justice, with which executive
governmeut of the United States hath con
duced itfelf in its relations with foreign
powers, would have secured na fiom a par
ticipation in the war which lias desolated
Europe : It is therefore with extreme con
cern that we view the alarming position,
in which the nation is placed by the rapa
cious avarice and dcftrurlive projedU of
those who tyrannize over the people of
France. But fn the midst of this concern,
we defive abundant consolation from re
fleeing, that the mrafwres whicii you have
puafued for removing fubfi.'ling differences j
with the French Republic, have proceeded :
j from a liberal and fiucere difpofuion to re- ;
ft ore harmony, and preferva the important ,
i ate re ft s United States, without fa
crtficing ( the honor or fovemgnty «f their
government, and were ably and wifely cal- ■
ciliated to attain these ends, had your n go- J
ciations bren reciproc ted with th t spirit
of reconciliation and frieodfhip, which her ;
public agents have so often, but so pctfidi- I
ouily profefTed. We feel the keenest indig- '
nation in perceiving that these advances have
been treared with unmerited contempt ; and
that the ambitious dire&ors of this govern- j
mcnt, wholly abandoning the immutable •
principles ofjuftice,and equally disregarding |
the law of nations and the faith of treaties, |
have wantonly persisted in accumulating in
juries upon the commece and perfows of!
our citizens, and in vilifying, by the mofl j
scandalous insults, the executive authority ■
of the United States.
In such a state of things it becomes in
dispensably necessary, for a free people to
express their feelings, and to vindicate their
rights j and while we declare our entire con
fidence in your wisdom and integrity, we
aflure you, Sir, of our determination to
support every measure, which the present
crisis may demand, at the hazard of our
lives and fortunes, and to dellroy those ma
lignant hopes which have been entertained
from a vain belief, that the people of this
country are at variance with their govern
ment.
Animated as we are by the love of peace,
it is not without relu&ance that we con
template the calamities of war ; but resolved
to maintain the rights and independence
of our country, without the enjoyment of
which, peace would be only vassalage, we
ai*e fully prepared to await the events which
may befall us ; and if recourse must be had
to fhall-truft, under divine Provi
dence, to the justice of our cause : And un
der such auspices, we are confident that the
iflue will be fortunate, and be rendered
glorious by the wisdom and patriotifmof the
government, and by the courage and virtue
of the people.
Signed by order of the meeting,.
JOHN ROBERTS, Chairman.
7 0 the Jufticcs> the Grand and Petit Jurors
and Officers of Talbot County, and the nu
nitrous Body of the People of the County,
assembled at Eafton the 29th May.
GENTLEMEN,
THIS unanimous address from so re
fpc&able an aflembly of citizens, of such
various claflcs and denominations, conveying
to me the sentiments which the present oc
casion has inspired, does me great honor.
You fee that neither justice nor modera
tion can secure us from a participation in
the war which has agitated Europe. The
rapacious avarice and deftruftive projects of
those who rule in France, hr<s made wat
upon us already for years—a war all of one
fide, a war without reciprocity.
Our negociations have been conduced
upon public and national principles and in
terests, not upon little proje&s of the private
ambition, or avarice of individuals among
the rulers. Our advances have been treated
.with unmerited contempt; the question now
is, Will yon reverse your maxims ! and by
. gratifying the rapacity of rulers abroad,
teach your own future rules at home lefTons
of rapacity.
The executive authority of your country,
you may depend upon it, will be vilified,
by the most scandalous insults, by such ru
lers, as long as it is upright and pure.
Peace without independence, according
to your own happy expression, would be
vafTalage.
JOHN ADAMS. ,
Philadelphia, June Bth, 1798.
iO BE LtA\
And poffejfion given immediately,
THAT WELL KNOWN TAVr.RN HOUSE, ,
N°. 333, in Front-street,
Near Poole's bridge—formerly the sign of the
+ Ewe and Lamb.
Enquire at No. 91, North Sixth ftraet.
juMeji §
Millenery Room,
1.16, Market street.
Mist CHArSTAL,
INFORMS her iriends, that Ihe has received by
the late arrivals from Europe, her usual supply
of the very latest fjifhions in MILLENERY, &c
with a gr«at variety of .Straw, Leghorn, and
Chip HA rs and BONNETS, of the newclt fhape9,
which will be opened this day.
fune 11 20
Joseph Ricakdo,
OF this City, Merchant, has aflig'ned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, te James
C. Fiiher, Samuel W. Fifhcr, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
quested to furnilh their accounts without delay—
and thof* indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&ing Afiignees.
James C. Samuel IV. Filler.
No. Arch Street,
march 31 4tawtf
march 31
[TRANSLATED FOR THE AUJtORA.]
From the French Minijler tf Foreign Affairt
to the American Commifftoneri.
Paris, 28th Ventofe, year
( 18th March 1798 )
THE undeifigned minifterof the French
Republic for Foreign Affairs has laid before
the Executive Direftory the memorial w'ich
he has received from the Commissioners and
Envoys Extraordinary of the United States
of America, dated the zßth of Nivofe last.
The Dire&ory desirous of conviihcirtg the '
United States of the real difpofitioiu with
which it is animated in regard to them has
direfled the underfignfcd to communicate to
iheCommiflioners and Envoys Extraordinary
the following observations :
The firft thing with which the mind is ne
cessarily llruck in the memorial of the £om
mifiione s and envjys extraordinaty is the
method which they have thought proper to
purfuc in the statement of the points that
are in cot troverfy between the two states.—,
The Executive Direflory, animated with
the molt conciliatory difpolitions, impressed
with a sense of the interests that ought to
draw the two nations towards each other,
and e ger to concur i-i the well known with
of the people of both countries to main
tain a permit intimacy between them, had
reason to expe£t that the Env ys would
have come forward with similar difppfi'ions
on the part pi their government, with minds
actuated wiih the lame views arid ftnpreffed
with the fame wilhes. How £reat, after
such an expectation, mud have been \he sur
prize of the Executive Direftory, when the
nnderfigned communicated to them a me
morial, in which the c mmiffiom rs and en
voya extraordinary, reverfmg the kn >wn or
der of fafts. hnve liudioufly palled over, as
it were, in silence the just motives of com
plaint of the French government and dis
guised the real cause of tie mifunderftand
[ ing which is prolonging itfelf between the
; two republics, lo that it (hould appear from
; that partial and incorreft flatement, that the
French Republic I.a no real gi iev nces to
complain of, no just reparations to require,
I while the United States (hould a one have a
right to complain, alone be entitled to de
mand fatisfatlien ?
The motives which have induced the pre
ference given to this mode of proceeding
have not e{ aptd the Directory. A&uated
by a proper sense of the dignity of the Re
public, whof* interests it is entrufttd with,
and wi(hing eventually to guard against the
views that have pointed out such a
conduct, it has given it in charge to the un
dersigned to dispel those delusive appearan
ces, which indeed must vanish before k can
did statement of fa&s and as soon as the reaf
intentions of the Dire&ory (hall have been
solemnly made to appear in oppbfition to
those views which could only be imjuflly at.
buted to shem by taking advantage of their
silence.
It is an inconteftible truth, which is en
tirely kept out of view in the-memorial of
the commiflioners and envoys extraordinary,
that France is entitled to a priority of com.
plaints and of grievances, that those com
plaints and grievances were real as well as
numerous long before the United States the
lea/l foundation for either, and confeqnently
before any of the fa£ts which the envoys
have so elaborately and minutely difcufled
had taken place.
It is a bo less inconteftible truth, that all
the grievances exhibited by the CommijTion
er3 arid envoys extraordinary, with forae
exceptions which the undersigned was rea
dy to difcufi are a neceflary coflfequence of
the measures which the prior conduct of the
United States had rendered juftifiable on the
part of the French republic, and which her
treaties with the said United States author
ised in certain cases which it depended up
on the general government of the Uuion to
bring or not into existence.
It is foreign to my purpose to enumerate
the complaints which the French govern
mont had reason to make against the feder
al government fiace the commencement of
the war excited against the French repub
lic by a power jealous of its pr fpcrity and
of its regeneration. Those details are con
tained in the numerou official communica
tions made at Philadelphia by the ministers
of the republic; they have been recapitula
ted by the pr deceffor of the undersigned,
in a note dated the 19th Ventofe, 4th year,
addressed ts the minister plenipotentiary of
the United States at Paris, and particular
ly detailed in the official note of citizen
Adet, d, ted at Philadelphia, the 2j»h Bru
maire, sth year. Complaint was made in
the above note of the non execut on of the
only clauses of the treaties cfiC'uded in
1778 in which France had stipulated Aj>me
advantages in return for the efforts which
(lie had engaged to make for the common
utility, and of insults which bad been offer. "
ed to tJ-e dignity o* the French republic.
In fa£t, from the commencement of the
war. the American tribunals claimed the
right of taking cognizance of the validity
of prizes carried by French cruizers into
the ports of the United States. It reAilt.
Ed from this pretension, contrary to the let
ter of the treaty of commerce of 1778,
that the property of the citizens of the re
public was unjnftly detained ; that the
French were entirely discouraged from cruis
ing iu the American seas against an enemy
who was reviving the moll barbarous lawpi
of that mode of warfare, in order to l'nfult
and annihilate the Am.rican c immercc even
before the eyes of the federal government.
Nor was that government fatisfied with
favoring the enemies of the French repub
lic, in a point of so much a
point indeed, out of which some abuses
might have arisen, but which the French
government (hewed itfelf disposed to pre
vent —they went so far as to grant to the"
fliips of thy enemy, contrary to the plain
lettcrof the above mentioned treaty, an a
fylumin the ports of the Uni'ed State? af
ter having captured property or velfels be
longing to French citizens. Soon after, a
natioi jl sloop of war, at anchor in the portof Philadelphia, was. seized and her com- i
mander arreiled by order of the govern- !
merit. In like mann r the person of the
ex-governor of Guadaloupe was arretted by k
proccfs from the American tribunals, to
answer a complaint founded upon fads re
lative to his adminidration. asd the execu
tive direftory wrrc obliged to threaten mak
ing use of reprisals before that atfair could 1
take the course whi' h was afligned to it by
the law of nations. During the whole
space of time of which a review has just
now taken, the French • government
endeavored in vain to determine the govern
ment of the United States to procure to the i
agents of the French republic the legal
means of carrying into execution the arti
cles of the contolar convention of 1788,
which granted privileges to oar commerce
and navigation, the principle of which was
cftabh'flied by the treaties of 1778, and no- ;
thing could be obtained in this refpedt, but
fruitlefs references to the tribunals. In ge- j
ncral, all matters which, with a tr ly con- i
cilfat> ry difpolition, might have been fet
tled in the way of negotiation wer habit
ually referred o the judicial authorities, who
whether they were or not under a secret in
flurnce, did in the end either deprive the '
republic of ri his funded upon treaties, or '
modified the cxercfe thereof as fuitei the
fyfie r adopted by the executive.
.Such was the true (late of thing' in the :
m nil of . vugtift 1795, when the ratifica
ti nof a treaty of amity commerce andna- '
vigati in, fig cd a London in November '
preci'di u T , bet we n the United States and !
Great Britain, filled the measure of the ; '
g: iVvances of the republic.
What had been till that period the con- 1
dn.'fl ot the French government towatds the
United States ? The undersigned in order
to contrail it with that of the federal gov- 1
ernmerit, needs only recall to mind certain
fails which surely cannot hive been foro-ot- <
ten : 0 ,
Engaged in Furope by the mod pressing
concerns, the Republic had not direfled I
lier attention to the United 6tate> unless it
was to give them frefh proofs of the mod 1
sincere attachment and friendfliip ; (he It ft i
it to 1- er agents amicably to discuss, with '
the federal government, the controversies, a
iketc;i of which has just now been given, and <
which if they "had been met 011 both fides I
with a real fpiiit of conciliation could net I
have altered, to the present degree, the I
good tuiderftanding of the parties. Scarcely
was the Republic constituted when (he sent ]
a miriider to Philadelphia, whose firft (lep
was to declare to ths United States, that 1
they fhotild not be urged to carry into exe- *
cuti<jn the deferfive clauses of the treaty of I
alliance, although the exiding circumllances 1
were in the mod unequivocal manner within
the Qajus fmderis. Far from viewing this '
conduft in its proper light, the American t
government considered it as the acknowledg- (
ment of a right, and in the fame spirit the 1
commiiiioners and envoys extraordinary have 1
met this qucdion in the beginning of their <
memorial. Tbe minister of the Republic at r
Philadelphia, having given nnealinefs to the f.
American government, was recalled with t
readiness and his recall was attended with
circarn(lances bf ext:eme feveritv. His >
fucctiTt.-t carried to the United States all the t
repartitions that could be wi(hed for, accom- v
with the fincerefl arrd mod friendly a
declarations.—Nothing can equal the spirit t
of concil ation. or rather condescension, in 0
which his inftruflions were drawn up in re- f
latioti to ever > point tiiat hadoccafioned any
uneasiness to the federal government, C iti- a
aen A (Jet, in the'name of the convention, e
corr borated those f xprcflions of good-will, »
arid that affeuibly itfelf received with the ef
fnfione cf an unbounded confidence and fin- a
cerity, the new minifler which the President t
ofthe United States sent to them, with the a
appa'ent intention of corresponding sincere- c
ly with the dispositions which the republic d
had never ctafed to evince. si
\et it will hardly be believed, that the tl
French Republic and her alliance were a/2- f<
wily facri/iced at the very moment when (he P
was thus giving to her ally iflcrcafed proofs 11
of her attention and regard, and that the h
co refp'indiug demonstrations of the Federal P
Executive hid no other view but to lull her c
and her government into a deceitful security. tl
It is nevei'thelefs well known, at this day, h
that it wis at that period that Mr. Jay, a
who had been sent to London, only, it was
then said, in order to negociate
refpeQing the depredations which were com- tl
mitted by he Briti(l> cruizers on the Amer- si
ican trade, was signing a treaty of amity, na «
' vigation and commerce, the negociation and c,
figriature of which had been kept a mod n
profound secret at Paris and at Philadelphia. • o
That treaty was not avowed to our minider c.
plenipotentiary until the lad extremity ; and ei
it was communicated to him only for form's nr
fake, after it has been fan&ioned by t era- ti
Ufication of the Senate. When th agents ?<
•of the Republic complained of that myde- i 1
(jrious conduft they were answered by .an up- ei
pe> Ito the independence of theUmted States "
inlemnly eftablifhcd by the treaties of 1778; a
.a drange mode of defence againd a com- '1
plaint which the diflimulation which was u- of
fell proves to have been but too well ground- ti
ed i an iwfldious fubgerfuge, which to the P'
jpal point of the qnellion fubditutes a gen- te
eral principle, which the Republic could tl
not be fufpedted to controvert or deny, and jl
wliich by means of a sophism dedroys th t ti
intim.it* confidence which o>jht to fubfid ct
between two allie-, and particularly between c
the French Republic and the Untited
States. ha
If it is difficult todifcoverin thiscondudl I '
that which ought to be looked for from a P'
' frirnS, what (liall we th : nk of the treaty it
felf and of its provisions ? That treaty is at ru
this day knowntoal Europe ; and the small
ma|orities which gave it fanflion in both p<
house, as well as t*<e drong and numerous ed
expressions of the opinion of the People [5 1
againd it, are so many honorable teftimoui- ' u
ais in support i f the view which the I rench j. j
govei nmeiH has taken of it. The underGgn- m
d will not repeat the cbfervations made by \v]
ti- j his precfecelTor o 1 il ( i.- treaty, 111 his note of]
1- ' the 19th Ventofe before mentioned and in '
ie that of the 19th Meffidbr following; nei-1
iy I ther will he repeat what the Minider Plen
:o j ipotentia. y of the R public at Philadelphia
f- set fotth much at large in his official note
j- ofthe 25th Brumaire. H*. will him- j
c , felf to obfervingfummarily, that every thing
d having been caWulattd in that treaty to make , '
y the neutrality of the United States ftperate 1 !
Ie to t4i.- of tie French Republic ,
ft and to the advantage of England, that the ,
it Federal government having, in that inftru
-- m rtt, made to Great-Britain conceffi tij,
ie [ the mod unheard of, the mod incomjia ible 1
al with the intertlls of the United States, the
i- moll derogatory to the alliance which fubfi- '
3, ded between the fai-J States and .the French j
.e Republic.—the latterhasbeen perfertly free, 1
is 1 in order to avoid the inconveniences, of the '
3- j treaty of London,to aVailitfelf of the Means
it ,of felf-phfervniori which the laws of nations 1
e- ; and prior treaties offered.
1- j Such are the niolNe". which have, promp- '
t- tedthe arrctrs f the Directory of which the c
t- United States coinidain, as w. 11 as the con- t
,0 dudt of its agents in the Weft I dies All J
1- those measures are founded on the Article
ie j II of the treaty of 1 y7*B ; which provides ?
ir 1 that as to navigation and c /mmerce France
ie (hail always daiid >n relation to the United, f
f State' tfn the footing of t e mod favaured ; t
ie ; nation. 1 he Executive Direaory connot be 1 t
1- blamed, if the executioii of tliis eve tunl 1 f
1. tlaule has produced f;me inconveniences to 1
r the American flag. As to abufes,'which may ;
d j have an fen under the operation c£that prin- ' °
e ; ciple, the undersigned again repeats—that • f
he ivas rea v to dijeuji them in the mojl ami- 1
1- cable manner. c
e Fr irn this faithful exposition of the fafts c
T which have progn-ffivelv led to the pref nt
■ exiding inifunderftaitding between the two J
n Peepublics, it is evident, as the undersigned ,
:- observed in the beginning of this answer, c
that the French Republic were firft aggrie- 1;
g ved and that such of her measures as may '
d have given rife to the complai- ts of the J 1
t United States are, with a fewexceptions the
d natural confeqnenceof a dateof thingswhich ' e
:t it was in their power to produce or to a- f
h void. a
a If the undersigned, in setting forth the '
d complaints of the Republic (hould confine '
's himfelf to the treaty ofLondo'n, he would c ,
t but partially fulfil his duty, which direfls it
e his attention to further objeas. - g
y From the moment when that trca y vras j'
t put into execution, the government of the
p United Slates appeared to thick itfelf re- °
t leafed from the necessity of saving appear- e:
. ances towards the Republic Cl
f (handing the reiterated assurance which had tl
s been given to its miniders, that this treaty
a (hould make no change in the pre-exiding ft
j date of the neutrality of the United States, a
n the French cruisers were notified in the "
. courft of the year 1 796, that they could no ai
e longer, as had been theretofore prafticed,
e be admitted to fell their prizes in the ports t(
r of the United States. This decision was th
t made by the Federal Court of Justice, and
; grounded on the treaty concluded between "
1 the United States and Great-Britain.
1 . ilcwf P 5 P ers known t• be under the u'l
s indirea controul of the cabinet have, since hi
; that treaty, been doubly aftive in their in- ''l
. veaive and calumnies againd the Republic, V
j and againfl her principles her reprefenta
t tives, and ag;nts ; libellous publications he
, openly paid for by the Minider of Great-
Britail, haVe brought to view, under every 311
r Mlipe, thofc infttlts and those calumnies ; 00
. and such a fcandalotis (late of things never
( excited the attention of the government,
, who might have repress d it. On the con
. trary it was countenanced by the public
. aas of the government itfelf. The Exeeu
: tive Direaory has seen itfelf denounced in W
■ a speech delivered by the President in the
. course of the month of May (O. S.) as en
: deavouring to spread anarchy and divisions ]
fti the United States._ The new allies which
: the Republic has acquired, and who are the Pi
. fame who concurred in asserting the inde
: pendcnce of the Americans, have also been
insulted in official ccrrefpondences which M
have been made public, and in the newfpa
, pers. Indeed it is impoilible not to dif
• cover in the tenor of the fpeechcs, and in
that of the publications which have been al
luded to, a latent enmity, which only awaits "
a favorable moment to break out.
Faas being thus placed in their true light,
it is disagreeable to be compelled to think
that the inflruaio»s on which the commis
sioners have aCjed, have not bee . drawn up
with the sincere intention to proiuce a pa
cific result ; since far from grounding their foi
memorial on some acknowledged principles, ev
.or unconteded faas, they have inverted and f ■
coiifoundeel one and the other; so as to be w !
enabled to impute to the Republic all the
misfortunes of a rupture, which it appears j
to be intend d to produce by such a lin ■ of
rondua. It is evident, th,;t the int-ntion
unequivocally exprcfled bf maintaining, at
every haznrd, the treaty of London, which
is the principal grievance of the Republic ; of
adh ring to the spirit which has produced
that tr aty and directed i s execution, and
of refufing to allow to the Repub ic any of /
the modcs'of reparation whicfi (lie has pro- lo;
(jofed ihrough tie und rligned, have diaa- ha'
ted those i ttrudtior.s., It is equally evident, fie
that there is no hifitation in facrificing to
foreign feelings, those which the trea
ties of 1778, and the rrcblleaion of the cir- re '
cumdances in ihe midst of which they were
concluded, ought to inspire. jj e
The rem te cynfequences of such a condufl ex
have not efeaped the atte: lion of the diredlory. Ps
It is wifteei, while nothing is omitted which can
prolong the mifunderfbnding, artd even encreal'e ' La
it, to throw on the republic, in the view of A
mtrica and Europe, all the odium of such a —-
rupture |
it is endeavored, to juftify by delusive ap- J
pearanceF, the prejudices which are difleminat- m(
ed at pleafnre .igainfl the repuolic, and the fyf- th<
rem of eiafperitiorl and alienationwhich is pur- rr!
sued, in rrfpeil to her, with.the moil unaccoun- la I
table perseverance : It is intended, finally, to da
lei>:e the si 111 favorable opportunity of confum- he
mating an Ultimate union with a power, towards tei
which a devotion and partiality are ihewu,which
f J lias lortg been tUMiI of the conduit of t?:e
n t Federal government.
_ j ' lc intentions which the undersigned attri
butes so tTie government of the* United States
are so li'tle d that nothing feerns to have i
3 been neglected at Philadelphia, to rend-'r them |
e ; evident to every eye. It was prob ihiy with this
" i v l e . w » w «?s thought proper to fend 10 the
r I rench pcrfons whose. -opinions and
e connesHioas are too well known to expes from i
I thein'ilifpofitionsfiiicerclyconciliatory. It is pain
ful to the Underlined tobe obliged tocontiafl this
conduit with that which has I cen held tow.frdathe
■ cabinet of S;. in analogous f iroimflantes.
I he Amer:cad ex-cutive was anxious to fend to
% London mirtiilers well.known to p >!Tefs fenti
, meats 1 uit«l)'e so the obj-tl of their million.—
} !■«• republic mi'jrht have exprtflrd, it would
ft em, a similar deference: and if the fame de
cree cf propriety has not been ohfervrd with
1 to riiem, it is »>ut too prnbabU. that it
, | must be attribute'! to the views above pointed
• out by th - *; underlined.
- It is impofHhle to forefee whither such difpo
. fiti ms may lead —The undersigned hesitates not
to believe, that the American, like the French,
nation beholds with regret such a state of thingfj
, and is forrowfully afTeHVd with the idea of its
conferences,, He thinly the Americans
wiH form a correal-opinion, with regard to the
[ p:*ijt(disc» agiinfj an allied people which endea
, xo.ft have been made to Lnftil into them ; and, i
5 alio with regard to the engagements which it
feoms to he the objefl to prevail upon them to
contract to the injury of a*i alliance which his
; so powerfully contributed to place and maintain
i j thun in the rank of nations, and that they will
1 di cover in those ne-iv combinations the only dan
[ 1 gers to which their prosperity and national im
| povtance can be exposed.
.1 Impreired with the truth of ttsefe obfei rations
! and tie conl'equences which fl.»w from them the
executive directory have anthorifed the under
-1 j signed to express himfelf with all the frauxnefs
i which becomes the French nation. It was in
difpenfible, that he should, i?i the name of the
, executive direi\ory,. riifprl the mill of illusions
with which the complaints of the ministers of
the French republic have for five years part been
Inrrounded witlra view to weaken, mifrtprefent :
or difguifc them. He was abfohitelv bound, by
declaring their sentiments in an unequivocal man- j ,
per, to clear up evety doubt and everv farfe in
terpretation to which they might have been Tub- ,
jetted.
It is thereforeforc, solely with a view to smooth ;
the ivay to difittj/ion, that the undersigned has enter
ed upon the preceding explanations : It is with the ;
f;ime view that he. declares to the connniflionars ,
and envoys extraordinary, that notwithstanding
the kind of prejudice which may have been enter- ]
fair.ec'.with refpe«ft to them, the executive dirv&o- '
ry are disposed to treat with that one of the three
opinions prefumcd to le more
impartial, promifeiu the course of explanations a 1
greater (hare of that mutual Confidence which is f
indifpenfibly required. The undersigned flatters <
himfelf, that this overture will meet with noferi-
ous opposition on the part of the commiflioners and j
-envoys extraordinary ;it fs the more natural to %
expeA it, as by ths tenor of their powers the said j
comrnifTioners and envoys extraordinary are au- a
tuorifed to negotiate jointly or separately ; so that j
nothing but the desire of precluding all acconSmo- c
dation could raise any objection against that mea-
sure, which moreover is merely pointed oat to the r
commiflioners themselves, rn order that nothing ,
may on this occasion have an unfavorable appear
ance, and which evidently has no other obje&than r
to fccure a h3ppy ifTue to the negotiation by rem- r
oving at the firli outset every thing that might, in
the course of that negotiation, awaken feelings J
that might eventually commit it.
The undersigned hopes .the cemmiffioners and
envoys extraordinary, will ioon ; enable him to in-
form the executive dire<flory of their determina-
tion. Whatever this deterrwination may be, the
undersigned flatters himfelf, that the explanation
he has given will have placed the fubjeA in its true
light, and may eventually serve to remove, in the
eyes of all impartial men, the unfavorable impref
• Hon, which might be endeavored to be made res- c
peiling the intentions of the French republic and c
her government. n
He concludes by renewing to the commiflioners
and envoys extraordinary, the affnrance of his
confederation.
(Signed) CH. MAU. TALLEYRAND-
Positively the lajl Night.
at o'ellers room.
MR. CHALMERS, \
Most refpeflfully begs leave to inform his friend 0
and the public, that with the assistance of '
Mr. Williamson, tcom the New- *
York Theatre, he mear.9 to give *
READINGS and RECITATIONS, 1
Serious and Comic.
Particularly a POE TIC ADDRESS to the Pat- a
riotic Young Men of Philadelphia. lj
This Evening j the 16th of June. a
Mr. William/on wi 11 Sing feverat new Songs, r
And in the course of the Evening •
The much admired popular Patriotic longs,
The Bojion Patriotic Song, 11
" ADAMS and LIBERTY " °
The Ne-Vj-York Federal Son%,
" WASHINGTON and THE CONSTITUTION " f,
And
« HAIL COLUMBIA."
Several pieces of Music on the Grand Piano
Forte,—by the celebrated Mr. Lin-
LfcY, being his ad Appearance in
public in this Country. P
N. B. Mr. AViliiamfon being obliged to per- tl
form at the New-York Theatre oa Monday tl
evening, the public may depend upon it, that il
there will be no postponement on any account vv
whatever.
This Day is Publilhed, lr
Bv THOMAS DOIt?ON, No. 41 South a
Sccond-f>rcet, (price 6a-£ cents.) V
THE COMPLETE t(
Soldier's Pocket Companion ; v;
OR, w
A PLAIN AND EASY METHOD OF C i
MI LITAh T DISCIPLINE. rc
CONTAIN! NCj
The new fy(!em of manual and platoon exer- r
cife, now pradlifed in the army of Great-Britain
logether with filing, grounding, advancing, er
handling, e?fing and reversing of arni3, with
field mancevrt.o, camp and garrison duty. ta
To which are added, cc
Forms of morning eports, monthly returns,
recruiting returns, muster rolls, returns of arms,
accoutrements, cloathing, See. With a roll of
country, age, lize and servitude. —ALSO, The
field piece and great gun exercise, with some
extracts and observations from Baron Steuben's
publication. A
By Jo&n Campbell,
Late Adjutant in the Briti/h 7sd Reg't of Foot.
June 16 Jiat
'HE creditors of G. Rutter will take notice
X that he has applied to the Court of Com- of
mon Pleas for the county of Philadelphia, for he
the benefit of the atf of aflemkly, palled for the p
relief of insolvent debtors the 4th day of April
lalt past, and the said court has appointed Mon
day theajth inflant, a: 10 o'clock A. M. for a r0
hearing, at the State-koufe; where you may at
tend if you thiuk proper. p<
thiludelphiai Jvne Zth, '9B. # 2t lii
%in <sasett^
3 1 •
f j P HILA D £ LP HIA,
= SATURDAY EVENING, 7mm 16.
Whether the EcJitnr of the Aurora iV an
s racial agent of tht French Dineflc ry, 01
: not. trme miry elucidate. Th.-re is however
' not a doubt thai he was furnifhed with the
_ State Paper, piibli'fhed i:i the Aurora tin'.
m-rning, some time before it was received
I by the Executive of the United States.
i [The foUptumg article was not received in
| time far infer turn in the JirJl part of ycjier
day's impreffi n.]
A private letter, of a late date has been
. received from Mr GERRY. Envoy Ex
p traordinary and iVhnifter Plenipotentiary
to France, dating that Meflrs. Pinckney
' and Marfliall had left Pari", and that he
; himfelf waited only for expeftfd Difpalches
from our Governmer.t.
i
A letter from a gentleman of very res
, portable in Accomack county,
Virginia, dated the Bth in(l. with a polt
firiptof the 9th, contains the following
informatinn
1 hat about ; p. m. 1 very heavy firing
began at sea, bearing about ea!l from his
hotife, which called his attention ; he re
paired to his chamber and with an excel
lent gbls made these obfe-rvations—-Two
large Ihips were e-gaged at the dillance of
about 8 or 10 miles from the shore—Their
hulls were invisible, but the firing was tre
mendous and the manoeuvres plainly fcen,
after palling and repaffipg each other. A
third velfel lay to about a mile to the north
ward, during the whole engagement, which
continued till about half p-;ll feveu, when
the comba ants lay with their heads to he
land, apparently about two cabl s length
apart ; the wind weftwardly, and very light.
9th. a. m. This morning one large fltip,
and several small vessels appearing to be
coaders, returning home, were in fight ;
the Writers sloop soon after came to the in
let.
It was mentioned some time ago, that the
Whig Club of England had resolved to pre
sent General Kosciusko with an elegant
Sword. This honourable mark of refpeci
was placed in the hands of Mr. King, our
Minilter in London, for the purpose of for
warding it by a careful hand to the General in
this city. Captain Lee, of the Adriana, lately
arrived at this port, was the bearer of this
handsome present, which is made in the form
of a Sabre, ftiperbly mounted with gold, and
ftut'ably inferibed. The General beingat pre
sent in Virginia, availing himfelf of the salu
brious Springs of that State, Captain Lee has
not been able to fulfil the extent of hiscon
million ; but we underhand, that on Thtirf
day lafl he consigned it to the cafe of Thomas
JefFerfon, esq. Vice President of the United
States, who has undertaken to deliver it per.
fonally to the brave Veteran on his return to
Virginia. This Sword, we are told, cod Two
Hundred Guineas.
FIR E!
On the Jth inft. at two o'clock in the
morning, a Fire broke out in King lireet,
corner of Price's Alley, Charleston, which
consumed fix Dwelling H< ufea. Our infor
mant supposes it was by accident.
FOR THE GAZETTE Vf WE UiVJTED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
There is a mod ample display rf the
" Diplomatic Skill of France," in Baclu's
Aurora * f this morning. Talleyrand' in
fidions letter in anfwtr to the memorial of
our Knwiys, with the circumdances under
which it has made its appearance through
Bache, mud convince every person that the
French have a parly in this country.
The are determined to divide
arid conquer. They hare pursued this po
licy with great success in Europe, . nd they
are pursuing it here by all the means in their
power. I pray to God their dratagems
inay be defeated ! This mftdious paper
mull have been sent by Talleyrand to some
of his secret agents here, that it might be
thrown upon ihe people in a manner mod
favorable to the views of the Directory.
AMERICAN.
MR. FENNO,
What better proof do we want of the di
plon-atic (kill of France—Th? document
this day published in the Aurora, was received
the day before y derday, in French, toge
iher with an anfwtr from our commiflioners,
which is voluminous. The clerks have
been engaged in translating one, and copy
ing the other—But behold mader Ben, has
a tranflatiori cut and dried, which was. for
warded to some Gallo-American agent here,
to be circulated without its answer. The
vaporing document contains nothing brit
what has been better said by Adet and oth
ers times without number ; but it is well to
remind the people on all occa!io 9 ( f the
lleady adherence of the French to
fyflem of dividing the people from the gov
ernment—arid it is ufcful to pay attention
to this faft, as it fu.rnifhes the mod indubi
table ar.d flagrant pr. of of the traiterous
correspondence maintained by their fpiee
here.
FOtt THE GAZETTE OF Tl,£ UNITED STATES
QUERIES,
Addrefled to the people of America, by
one who has as little intercourfcwith the ;
office of the Secretary of State, as with
the office of the Aurora.
1. Can there be a more complete proof
of the exidence of a faftion in our country,
holding a traiterous correspondence with
France, than the publication of an " impor
tant State Paper," as it is called in the Au
rora of this day ?
2. By what pofiible means can ii be sup
posed such a paper, if it be genuine, could
have come into the hands of any ir dividual, !
? ir. his private capacity, unit ft by t.-atifaif
fiort fivia the fjovernment of France itfilf,
or f.'om our env.iyt >
~ 3. Can tbeJaticT be fuppofjtd to hold cor.
refpondente with Bachc, or KTs office i
4. Is hot thai Paper obviotifty intended
as an appeal to' the people of America,
agai 11 their own government, and " art
endeavor to spread anarcby and diWfions in
the United States ?"
r 5- I s there any other flandar l, than our
, jr" v crhineflt, aroiir.d which the Americsri
H people can rally, in defence of O'.r indepen-
device, our liberties, our properties, and slf
our internal political and civil Mitmfons ft r
ftcuring and promoting the means of hap
piness ?
. not 'be conciliatory difpefition
shewn in this important (late paper, and
n the manner m which it has been ulhered
. forth to the views of the world, perfedly
f analogous to that which was lately (hewn to
Switzerland ?
e I 7. Were not the Swiss held up to 113
s lately by an agent of France as a pattern
of " the exaft observance of treaties," and
as a people " whof. refpeft for the law of
_ r.ili ns could not be doubted i"
( Adrt to Pickering March 11, 1796,
. No. 129 in docum-ii'6. Piclcringto
r 8. What has bten the result ot that
' " conciliatory disposition" with regard to
, t ' le Swiss, notwithilandinjg their exa'ft ob
| fervance of treaties and rcl'petl for the law
of natii rts ?
9. Was t rot to prevent tTieir taking ef
. fec'ual ir.cafitres of defence; till France
pi flvuld be prepared to (liike a blow at once
r fatal to a great po lion of their mod valu
able citiz.-n-, to their iirlependtnce as a
people a-:d to a government wtirch for the
freedom and h ip'pmrfc it difFul'ed amongll
_ 1 sow.) citizens, and for it«pacifi-j and up
right conduct towards other na ions, had
, long been the bosft of liberty and rcpubli
, canifm in Europe ?
( 10. Ought not their fate and the like n->
fidious attempts, aided by traitors amongJt
us, to rouse us in d fence of our country,
| that name which was so cltar to the antfcnt
, Spartans, and which it is hoped will be not
less dear to the Americans of this day ?
Some further queries upon the particular
merits of this Important State Paper will
be submitted to the cofifederation of my fel
low-ciiizens.
Married on Thnrfday evening last, by the Rev
■ Dr Rogers, Mr. William Tbotnpfon, to Miss Jane
IVilf on :
—-—• Lall Tuesday evening, by the Rev. Mr.
EuftlcK : Mr. Rembrandt Peale, to Miss Eletmra
M. Short :
_ ; ;• Same evening, Capt. George Dixor, to Miss
Eliza Ettinger:
And on Thursday evening, Mr. Wm. M'Cally
to Miss Fiances Reeves—all oi this city.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA
ARRIVED, days
Schr. Two Friends, Bowman, Savannah, ia
Argo, Sydlenian, PafTaniaquodv, ,0
CLEARED,
Brig Diana, Kirkbride, Liverpool
The fh.p William Penn, Jofiah, arrived at
London, from Portsmouth, tbe xorh ofAnrif
with all her tetters and papers, from Phila
delpnia fare.
The Ganges was spoke on tie r 4 th inftjnt,
to league, distant from Cape Henlopeny with
the (general Green, Revenue Cutter.
NORWICH, May 29.
It is al: oil imptiffiblc for ay velTel (that
is either going out or coming in our ports )
to eft ape from the merciless Pirates sis the
Ftenth W. India iflii ds, whonow, jn valfc
numbers inftll the co ft of America,—up.
wards of 50 f il, it is faicl, have beea cap
tured within a lew we ks by them.
Pirata lent out
We are info.Bed that eight or >ine mer
chantmen, under convoy of the Brmed (hip-
Hope, Captain E Clark, are to fell to "or
row for the Weft4.idi.-s,.from New-London.
Some of the other vciTels are sifo armed,"
and the probability is, that ifahy of the dar
iug piratical viilians w ho now inft ilthe coast
of this country, are bold enough to attack
them when proceeding on their voyage, they
will lee the effetls of the courage of United
Americans, who ate determined to defend
their 1 berty and property again! a!l thefa
vage endfavoure of the mutderous and un
principled fea-tygcrs, to.the contrarjr.
03- 1 he Committee appointed
by the Merchants of th« C.ty, to procure two
Ships to be I tuned to the United States,— are ready
to confer with fuel, of h- ship Carpente.s, loin
err and Blacksmiths of the City and S H > urbs a»
with to undertake the tailing of such Ships.
It will he underflood that one of the ftip's ij to
be hu.lc at the upper, the other, at the lower end
or the City. Applications to he made at the Com
mittee office, No. 95, Sou.h Front, Street.
The committee meet at 9 o'clock in the morning
of every day, excrpt Sunday,
ROBERT RITCHIE, Secretary.
j""" dfw
landing,
At Walnut Street wharf, f, om tbe Bri>
Sally, James Yardfley, mailer, from
" Part aw Prince,
88 H6gfher.ds 7 „.'
AO Ticrcts j FnmeSujfar.
35 Hogiheads \ on-'
2zs Bngs \ Ccfil;e.
FOR. S'.I.R By
Thorna; John KctLnd.
WHO HAVE A L3O ON H A NO,
Ironmongery and Cuilery ic p fi cka r es
Gi;na afTortcJ in cases
Queen's ware in cratei
Ciaret in hlvrls nnd cafVs
Port wine of a fupericr quality in pipes hhdl
and quarter caflts *
New-York and Boston Beef, & c
j" ne >6
30 tons of Lignum Vita,
•row sale bt
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH
tut;,;
y FEW COPIETOY
The Last Dispatchks
Frtm the Amsrlcan Envoys at U anr . .r '
of thofc laid before on .he '..J . "
and 4th of May, maybe had'a: tti>OffiFrefli Teas. ' F .
Jnj} Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton, j
And For Sale, bv ;
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Comptiag House, No. 54, Chcfnut-flreet, ,j-
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflorted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sartins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone ftieks.
They bavt also Fot S<tlt,
Ell wide Perfiana, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambrickfc and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boies.
mirrh 8. . if
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north m
fide of near Second-flreet,
adjoining the wall ef Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.-—This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen and a handsome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
Aa any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a more particular description iscon
fidered unnecessary.
she terms of payment will be one third calh,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in la p,
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of yOHN CR /4IG,
No. ia Dock-Jirect. h
may 16 $ 1»<
Military Colours. 1
At C. GULLAGER's .
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms, V
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street, t'
opposite the Friends' Meeting. n
PAINTING on silks for Military and ether o?- *
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelt) durable, not to be injured by the weather, b
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of *
colouring, neatness and mallerly execution, has
not bun equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Fttrntihed with all possible dispatch, on the mod
• reafonahle terms. t
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck- 1
ers, Cornices, &c. 3tc. executed in ftiU (not that I
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.) t
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tirt master of hi? proreflion.
Mr. Cullagkr, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe anil this country, flatters himfelf
that profeflional talents, punduality, and reason
able demands, will meet th« entirs approbation of <
those gentlemen who wi.lpleafctoc.il at his Paint j ! '
hg Rooms. §6w may 5. I t
NOTICE. I j
P. S. Gentlemen in town and ;
Country, wifliing for a supply of Colours and 1
Drums, painted in a majterly manper, will no ]
doubt fcsl then»f«Wes obliged for the kind can ion j
given hy George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf- j
flatte'ing advertisements, but examine the work ;
executed by both parties One view will satis- ,
Xy them where the superiority lies, —favethefpoil- !
nig of good silks by G-orge Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requifitcs for the contracting talents
of Frailey, at Germantown. may 10.
Tea Warehouse, ,
orrosrTE the pos^-office.
THE SuMcriber returns her fine- rc dianks for
thc-ineromencourjgement fhehas experien
ced fm.Ce Kit commencement in bufinefs.bcgs'eave
to acquaint her Friends and the Public, that (he has
received a frefh supply ot all hinds of Tea from the
late arrivals at New-York, &c. and it will he her
conflart enpeavour to merit their future support
She is in daily expe&ation of receiving a large fup
p'iy of usod Coffee.
py SARAH EATON. !
may 30 ff^ '
Very Great Bargains,
GONSIS I'INGof Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Housekeepers to make
putchafe of of
Ihomiti Randall,
No. 88 Sfruce-Jlreet.
tfiay i_
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DiBT OF "THE UNITED STATES
fjl ANtIING on th. Books of thttreafuiy, were
O forwarded for London by the ship William
Pcnn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be 1011, vil:
3164. 81. Deferred debt, in the name as Rev.
Edward (tiddy, of Ihredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June I, 1797- Certificate
No. 10,0} 1. .
Soil. if. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name ef
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797- K°- 'J'S 6
3610. jo. Deferred Debt, in ihe name of Will
iam Manning, of Orn lby, in the county ol Nor
folk, in England, dated July JO, 1797. No.
10199.
40183. 7*• Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannet Mathew, of Upner Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated O&obrt 31 1797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the said office of
jh« Treasury of the United Statss,-wnd all per
sons concerned aredefired to take notice.
ALSO—IN THE SAME VtSSIL,
Fifteen (hares Stork of the Bankof United States in
theilarae of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January !', 1797.
No. 15981. 15083. *59 g 4-
For the renewal of which,application is meant to
oc made to the said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons concerned therein arc deGred to
take notice.
JN. VAUGHAN.
Philadelphia, may 4. %6vr
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, (landing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Daniel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlcfcx, England—viz. No. Itjl, representing
1509610 13105, ten (hares—No.lls0 —1306610
13075, ten fhirtl—No. 2149—1305610 13065,
ter. (hares—Na. 114S—! 1509 to 11518, ten (hares
—No. 47*^1147 1 to 11480 —Amounting to
forty Shares, forwarded for London by the
Jh.p Willia-n Perm, which having been captured,
fjid certificates are supposed to be loll; for the r«
newal of which, applicsiion will be made to the
Board of th« said company.
Daniel Neal Lijler.
may 1 •■ itw
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to fcrve, is *
> good coachman, an excellent waittr, and
fcss been accuftomtd to marketing for a family---
U'k agtf ibout thirty two For fu- thcr parti
culars, apply -t the cflueaf this Gaztcte.
may *s*
, NO IV LANDING,
Frovrx on board the (hip Four Friend*, and for sale
9 at the St«re« nf
I JESSE £s\ ROBERT WALN,
A cargo of Havanna Molafles.
'3 * ra
* The Cargo ol the Ship Nathaniel Bayley, captain t h
Cambell, from Jamaica, will commence landing f 0
TO-MORROIV, at South-ftteet Wharf. O
» Sugars of Prime Quality in Hhds. l
g High proof Rum. th
for sale by at
Peter Blight. at
c- Who also offers for Sale,
» A choice parcel of ift and proof Bran- L
dy in Pipes. . ai
Port Wine in Pipes, Hhds. and Quarter cases
Madeira in Pipe*
Old Arrack. ?
june I) §»f«oJti3jy. I"i
London Particular Madeira Wine. e ;
A few pipes of a superior quality, fit for imme- o!
' mediate ufie ; and CLARET in cases. Si
ro» sale by K
. Michael Connor, P
No. 101, corner of Second and Dock streets. P
,e iune9 - : —A
Now Opening,
w At WiLii a mM*Laws SaddleJjijUnufaftory, P
No. 72, Chefnut Street, [l
si, A general aflortment of Horseman's t
:a Pistols, direa from the Manufafturers in Londoa.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, varrouch B id, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt an 4 Bank of United States
Stock, were forwarded from England per J
the Countess of Leiccfter Packet, in the nth jj
month, 1797, which vessel has been captured, -
> r . and the Certificates supposed to be lo(L
to 4000 dollars 4$ per cent. Stock, Handing on the c
er books of the Treasury, in the name of Bird Savage *
of and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th, *96.
kM Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of United States <■
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London, F
in one Certificate, No. 26067, dated the Ift day *
of Jannary, »7Q7* '
oft For the renewal of which certificates, applica- t
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the t
k- Treasury of the United States, and at the Bank of t
ia t United States; of which all ptfrfons intcrefted c
i,"\ therein,arc desired to take notice.
J. JOHN WARDER. 1
Philadelphia, 5 m». 16, 1798. '
pe- aawam
» n 'f FOR SALE. i
of QEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum- i
ntj ! O tier Retreats, three and a half miles from I
j the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made tofuit the purchasers.
TSefe situations are conlidered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to anv near the city,
id and the road known to be fafe and good at all
ind seasons of the year. The title indisputable—A
no plan of the grounds is in the hands of the Alb
ion fcriber, who will make known the terms on ap
elf- plication to him at his office No. 114 South
»rk Fourth Street.
tif- ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
o' 1 " may 1. 3»wtf
>nts Salisbury Estate.
o. "T'HE Subscriber, propoOng to contrafl hii bufi
""" 1 ness, offers this ElUte for sale, on msdetsie
terms. On it are one Blast and 1 hreo Air Furnaces,
' a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
f Mill, with two pair of (lones ; also a good Forge, all
in pcrfefl repair, as afe all the Water Works conneft
un~ ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
* ve were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou two thousand acies
the Q f ]j an d f one half of which isundei wood, theother
' ier very fine arable Land, producing the bell Hay and
'•T - Paflure. The Cannon lately nunnfadl.retd there,
sup- fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
I to any in the world ; for not one of Sxty-nine guns
.. | lately made, although fomeo/thea4 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failtd on proving. Thefitu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
an( j manufacture, and a place of arms lying in the ftlte
II of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land •
"f ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan.
ia c tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furmce,
and which may be converted into .variety of other
rret. ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaecommodat
§ cd with all the flock and utensils, and have poffeffioit
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
II maybe madein theme.ntimefor goinginto Blast im
mediately theresfter, for every pait will be delivered
' ir, good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. Jcc. For
vcre terms, apply to Mr. ]ofeph Anthony, in Philadel
liam phia; David Brooks, Esq. one ofthe Reprefentawvei
red, in Congress for this Stale ; Mr, David Waterman, on
thepremifes, ortotheproptietorin New-York.
j.«v. WILLIAM NEILSON
vail, Dee, t ■
Military Academy.
e of r-pj-ju Public are moll refpeflfully informed,
,reat X that a Military Academy i» opened in the
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong-
J, ing to John Matters, esq. between the German-
Town and Frankfort roads, North Secend
ftreet continued
ame Br JOHN BARBER,
reet, Late of the 60th British regiment of Foot and
No.' afilftant Engineer te the Army adling in the
Weft-Indies.
, ap- Where gentlemen will be taujht the manual
ce of Exercise and made completely acquainted with
per- all the duties of fficers, non-comHiiffioned of
ficers and private soldiers in camp, garrison and
Quarters ; the forms of regimental and field re
esturns, detachments, rollers See. &c. also the
oun- Jrt ( ,f drawing plans, feflions and geometrical
cates elevations, the elements of tactics, guanery and
191- fortification. —A fubfeription lift is left at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
nt the outlines of the proposed regulations may be
j* seen. The situation is extremely well adapted
t0 to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are
N set apart for the purpose.
N. B. Gentlemen from the Conntry boarded
t in the house if required.
ireS may 10. . ! dtwaawtm
idir.g 'sh e R ev . Dr. Blair's
Mid! DISCOURSE,
nting Delivered ot» the late National Fast Day.
66 to Is just Published, by
io6j, JaM£S Wattess, isf Co.
:lres And alfo be had of the principal booksellers.
yihe The firft volumeoftheWEEKLY Magazine
With an appendix containing the Prefidtnt's
i cr »' melfjge and the dispatches is now published,
0 the and may be had of the publishers —the prin
cipal booksellers in Philadelphia—by George
>. Hill, Baltimore and by Alexander Somerville
New-York—A few copies of the J)ifpatches
may be had separate.
n,av 25 endtf
FOR SALE,
, is « At the Store of Jesse fc? Robet Walk,
, and 011 Spruce street Wharf,
lil y— Port Wine in pipes, hhds. &qr. calks
p..rti- Lif|j on Wine in pipes and quarter calks
- And aftw pipes of excellent Madeira Wine
Treafufy Department, i
March 19, 1798. I
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r "l""H.\.Tpropolats wiilbe received at the Office of
X the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the nth day of July next ensuing, for
thefupply of all rations winch may be required
for the use of the United States, fromthe firli day t>f
OAober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the diftrid hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego ;
at Niagara ; at Prefque lfle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ; at Pittlburgh ; at Le Beuf ; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
Loramie's Store ;at Fort Wayne ; at Fort Defi- 1
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabafh ; at Maffac; at a*»y
place or places on theeaft fide of the River Miffif
iippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illinois Rive* ; at any place or placeson the
east fide of the Mississippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the A
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stattf ; at
Knoxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other A
Posts in the State of Tenneffec; at anyplace or
placas on theeaft fide of the Rive* Milliflippi, be- A
low the southern boundary of th'i State of Tennef-
fee, to the fouthera boundary of the United States.
If supplies (hall be required for any pofls or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchiupplies
lhall be furnifhed at prices proportioned to those to
the posts before recited, as may be agreed be
tween the United States and th« contra&or. yi
The rations to be supplied to consist of, tli". fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour .
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon >
Half a jill ofrum, brandy or r
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( hun(lrS( }
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, ( rations
one pound of candles J
The rations are to be furnifiied in such quantities,
as that there fball at all times during the said term,
be fufficicnt for the coniumption of the troops at t.
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix moiiths in advance, and at eacft
of the other posts, for the term of at leali three
months i t advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame ftiall be required. It istebe un
derstood, that the contra&or is to be at the ex
ptnee and risk of issuing thefuppliesto thetroops
at each post, and that all losses fuilained !>y the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, lhall be paid for at
the price of the article's captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of credita
ble characters, and the certificate of a commiffion
ei officer, ascertaining the circureftances of the
lofsand the amount of the articles for whieh com-
penfation (hall ha claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furnithed under the proposed contradl, shall be
iflued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnilhed under the contrail now in force have
been confumrd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
m-rc't ?7- lawticjy
ividuras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and mod approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, juit received,
AN» FOR Sy*Le BY
Alex. J. Miller Iff Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may i&.
Washington, Commiflioners Office,
7th May, 1798.
I ""pHE Commiflioners will rectivu jropofals un
l til the loth of June next,, for building in
1 the City of Waftiington, one of the Executive
1 Offices for the United States, of the following
1 external dimenfions:—l4B feet in length, and
r feet 6 inches in breadth ; cellar walls 30
I inches : firft flory 23 inches; and second story 18
, inches | partition walls averaging 15 inches; to
1 contain on the ground floor 14 rooms; fame num
' ber on the second story ; and in the roof 8 rooms,
1 with a paflage. The whole external of the build-
I irig to be of (lock brick ; the inside walls of hard
j burnt brick ; cellars of best. foundation (lone, to
the height of the girders , the outside walls, as far
c as they (hew above ground, to the plißth, to be of
] plain iflilar free-ftone ; soles of windows, fills of
doorsand firing course, of free (lone. The house
to be covere with eyprefs fhingUs ; the rooms in
r general to be 16 feet by 10, finifhed in a plain,
neat manner, of the best materials ; fix small
II rooms to be groined.
n A plan and elevation of said building, and bill
- of particulars, are lodged in the office, for th%in-
J fpe&ion of those who may wi hto
r a copy of said bill, at the office of Clement Bid
• die, Esq. at Philadelphia.
I ProooCals, sealed up, will be received until the
II iothjune next, on which day, the board will
proceed to contrail with such person, as (hall ap
pear under all tircumftauces.to offer the bell urms.
Per order of the Commiffioneri.
THOMAS MUNROE, Clerk.
may 11. lawtioje
, Richard D. Arden,
e No. *6, North Front (trees.
; FOR SALE
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
\ Gurrah.3, wkite Guzzies
e Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
Salums Emertics
j Gorahs Mow Saunas
' Mamoodief Peniafcoes
Tickiries Baftas
, Romalls Coffas
Doreas Tanjebs
" Chintz Malda Cloth?
e Saul Gazzics Carwah Cioths
An elegant ajfortment of
p Madras Handkerchiefs
d Benares SUGAR
ie COTTON and GINGER
f ] Mordccai Lewis.
e may 15. »w awiw
d Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Considerably more than Half Drawn.
Draws twice a week, every Monday CS* Tuesday
- PICKETS For Sale, Seven Dollars each, at
1 WILLIAM BLACKBUKN's Lottery
and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street,
jr. where check books are kept for eximination r.nd
registering in this, City of Washington No. 2.
and Paterfon Lotteiies and information where
Tickets may be had in most of the Lotteiies au
'' thorifed by law in any of the States of the
, l Union.
* State of th» Wheel,
One prize of 10,000 dollars xo,oco
n- Fi ve 4,000 10,001
*e Two a,oco 4,000
'e Nine l,oco 9,000
cs Nineteen 500 9>J OS
Forty fuur aoo 8,800
_ With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—tfce price of tiek-
H ets will soon rife, particularly on account of the
' five 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the wheel
until the last day of drawing.
' J gy Note, the business of a Brokrr duly at
j tended to inall its branches at the above office
may 14 w&stf
v TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the A& of Cii'gtcfs parted on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, e-titled "An Ail laying duties.on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , ana tne
Ad: pallid on the fifteenth day of Decumber, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
" An Ad to poflpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the AS enti
tled " Ah Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from aud alter the
firft day of July enf»iilj,H'ae fevcral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United Status.
For every (kin or pieceof Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon which (hall be
written or printed any or either of the instruments «r writingsfollowing—to wit:
Dls Cts. Alls.
Any Certificate of Naturalization, • - - - S
Any Licence to pradlice.or Certificate of the admifiion,enrolment or regiftryof
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advoeate or Proflor, in any Court of the
United States, ' " _ 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the Umted States
for one of thefaid Offices, shall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty aforefaid, Be aTulficiem admiflion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each a every of thefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United State»
(except for lands granted for military services) - 4
Any exemplification of certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for Lands granted for military services) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Bottcmry, or Refpondentia Bond, • l
Any Reteipt or discharge foror on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or e
ther tetlamenrtry inllrument,or for any lhare or part of a perfor.nl eUate di
vided by force of any flatute of diilributUns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren orGrand Children of the person deceased, the amount wbtfreof shall be
above the valye of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... - ij
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed live hundred dollars, - 50
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of I
Any Policy of Infurtnte or inftrament in nature thereof, on any ship, veflel or
goods insured from pne diflridl to another in the United States, jj
From the United States to any foreign port o>- place, when the sum for winch
Infuranee is made shall not exceed live hundred dollars, - 15
When the sum insured shall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Ary Exemplification, as what nature soever, that lhall pass ihe seal of any
Court, qjher than such as it may be the duty of tile Clerk of such Court to
furnilh for the use of the United States or some particular (late, - 50
Any Bond, biil lingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifTory
note or other note, othtr than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any date, or for their
uferefpeflively, .... - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
Ifaliovtone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, _ 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, ----- 75
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (halt be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjecft to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. - -
If above twenty dollars andnot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If aboveone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, lo
If above sv« hundred dollars and not exceeding one ihoufand dollars, I 0
If aboveone thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes iflued bv the banks now eftabliftied, or that may hereafter be eftab
lilhed within the United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as shall agree to an annual compoStion, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, t# their Stockholders respectively, according to
the following scale. - -
On all notes not exceedisg fifty dollars, for each dollar,
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... I
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - - 2
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, - - - - 25
\ny Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the iate war, - - - 2$
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars ..... 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, »
For more than two thousand dollars, - - - 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
K from one diftriift to another diftriA of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - " - 10
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - ls
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effeifts, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Infuranee Company, ef a lhare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - - -
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
The duties aforefaid will be colle&ed and received by the Supervisors, Infpefiors aud other Officers
of Infpedlion, in thefeveral Di(lria«, Sarveyo and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
persons as (hall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftri&s for
thatpurpofe. 11l
The Supervisors of thef«v:ralDiftridls will, prior to the firft day of July tnfuing, and as Toon as
may be praflicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supcrvilor, Infpe&or. Officer of liifpeclien,
or other pstfon appointed for the diflribution of Stamps, by tile Supervisors of Diftriels
CIVEN under my Haud, ct Philadelphia
the Jay and year absvcncniio/ied.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
Treasury department,
March 3oth. 1798.
Public Notice it hereby given,
THAT by ana<fl of Congrcfs paifcd 011 the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a<sl pafied on the 6th day of July f797, en
titled " Ar. ail laying duties on (lamped vel
" lum, parchment and paper."
The (lamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports arc repealed.
Adifcount at therateof seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpeflors refpedlively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who tnay pur
chalc atone time or procure to be flampcd, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for (lamped Parchment or
Velldm, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each (kin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnifh
ed at the expense of the United States and. pro
portionally for any lefier quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day andyetr ahovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treafiiry.
To be Let,
(And polTeffion given on the ill of May)
A genteel three flory brick House,
12 feet front, aad 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and (tables, at present in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at IS7 South Third street.
aptil 2. §
The Co-partnership of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OP
Joseph Davidson Ss° Co.
IS this day dillolved by mutual eonfent, all those
having claims againfl said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted t® make
payment to Joseph Davidfjn, who is duly autho
rised tofettlc the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J. MIU.ER.
JOSEPH D VID.SON.
N. B. ThcJStores at the corner • Marhet and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—Eaquirs Of Jo
seph Davidlon. April tS vr&sinj
TO BE SOLD,
40,939 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fifli and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Ran.
These lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five {hillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 3700 acres, which were patented in 1791 ;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tra<st
19 between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Wafliington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one iourth of thcpurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the reffe*
d ue » Enquire of the Vrihter
april 21. §
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehaiina
now, or late in the townihips of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
Ihefe Lands, quality and situation,.
are a very desirable objeA for any man who mean#-
to invest hid money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purohafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will I e given for the refi>-
due. Enquire of the printer,
april it. §
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 920 acres, almost all of which &
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
E«rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
Thcfp are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a vary convert, *it one. and(a fmallexpenc£ would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confiils of 1500 finebearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts oifaid,
tradlncar 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics' and
Forest Tress, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its Gtuatioi* is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incalh, on delivery of the d?ed«. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN &. Co.
No. 78, Chefnvt trcet#
F.truary 2. •odtt*