of tuc and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 17 29. J
Freight Wanted.
FOR BREMF.N,
The Hamburgh Brig
'fStWb H R N R y E r T A,
Peter P. Schmidt, Majler,
NOW lying at Jefle and R Wain's wharf—\
flout, Oxotig veflel of ahftnt 170 tor 9 bur
then, io good ord r ; h is two thirds of her cargo
ready to go on hoard, and begins to load to-n,orrow.
For Freight only, apply ro
PRATT y KINTZING,
No 95, North Wat r-ftreet.
Wlobave JUST KF.CEirEn, and FOtc SALE,
12 bales Tickle burgs and Oznabrigs
1 do. Vatterbornes
I do bleached Hefiians •
I package Oil Cloth
I fheft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
30 Liquor Cases
aj anchors pearl Baryle, -nd
4 cases elegant Carnage Harnels, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
THEY HAVE FOE SALE
Claret in cases. Port ine in pipe's, Ruflia Soap
in fmallhoxes, Rice, Brimflone, Tumblers, Win
dow G'afs, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, Heflians, Brown Rolls, Pol'fh Linens, tn-pty
Coffee Bags, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback.
n;.irch 40 tuthsiw
~~ For NEW-YORK,
r O~v Thc shi P
SARAH,
Captain Cooper.
FREIGHT will be taken on very low terms, if
offered immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN.
' march 17. 5
For NEW-YORK,
€ 1. r ncir;faHi'-yffgpp'
. cONc 0 R D '
Stephen Cahoone, majler ;
li-L take freight on very
moderata terms; for which, or pafiage (having
elegant accommodations) apply to the matter on
hoard, at Clifford's wharf.
march 16. *6t
For Sale,
THE SLOOP
J§ HARRIOT,
NOW lying at Ruff l's Wars
Burthen 77 torn—three years old, built of the best
materials and is well found—would answer well
for a coaster, as fee has excellent accommodations.
For terms apply to
Gurney Ss 5 Smith.
marcH 13 §
for Boston,
The Ship
Omr COMMERCE,
Richard Waistcoat, Majler.
fhpjTo fail in a few days.
*, Any freight that may offer,
■will be taken on very moderate terms , for which,
or paffags, apply to the Captain, or to
5, Sotuh W..ter-:'raet.
march 11. § iw
* FOR SALE, *
Weft Ind an,
xvy iut&V.. Philadelphia built, live oak and
cedar, is coppered, ftieathed and bolted, 3 ysa-rs
old, fails remarkably well, carries 15 a 1600 bar
rels—now lying at South-ftrset wharf, ready to
load PF.TER BLIGHT,
march 6. §iw
For Hamburgh,
THE SHI?
Dominick Terry,
J°^ n Fieinrrg, Majler,
great part of her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
JeJfe i? Robert Wain.
February 16 i S
Nicklin Ssf Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR SALIt,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes aadhhds.
Teneri-ffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ®f chefta
Sail Canvafis, No. I, to 8
Dimities, Gijjghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft-India market
Nails assorted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. apd crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at ork, on board thc
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expedled round
as soon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool 3alt
Coals
Spanish Brown , "j
Venetian Red |
Purple Brown i p AINTS
Patent White j
White Lead
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
j 60 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
kSi&'Ps Ship Diana,
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
ls§\ Brig Amazon.
*N/B: The'late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is now changed ti)
NTCKLIN £sf GRIFFITH.
January I. eodtf
for Sale or Charter,
fflL GOODHOPE
Will carry about izoo barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
VVho have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lifoan, arid Teneriffe wins
November 7. dtf
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, MARCH 26, 1798.
For Sale, or Charter.
Tha remarkable faft failing
sheathed with bed patent Copper,
having been a Packe' of theFMglifi)E»rt-indi*Cor<
p»ny —Now put in Csftip!ear 'rrd«r .Sftif-'b 16
tens, and c p«hle of carrying 16 now laying
at Mr Rofs's wharf.—For term- rply to
Stephen Kingston,
46, A 4lnut Stret.
WHO HAS FOR SA„ E ,
A cargo of Salt, a quantity of Sail Canvass and
Gin in pipes
march to __ *u
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Bouideanx,
AND FOP. SALS BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in cask«
White wine in h 11 calks
Sweet oil o a superior quality in boxes and baflcets
Lunelle ">
Macany, and f Wints ' ;n Caf£s •
Mcdoc j
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. ti, >Va nut Street.
WHO HAS ON HA.\D,
Bourdcaux Brandy in pipes l»tit'cd
Iri<S market 7 .... . . C (o
Msdoc, and Sau'erne 3 ines in ca es ' y drawback
Sherry wine in pipesand quarter calks
Ron
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
Akout 40&0 bufh.-ls 1 iverpoalSalt.
march 19 mwAftf
Committed. .
~\X7 HERKAS fcvwTal rie*
W mitred in this city by one or tv c
known by the names of Dr Grant, alia* Smith,
alias Gilbert, Grant generally wors a green coat,
tall in puifan, and genucl, had loft one or two
t<eth in front ; lodged, about July, 1796, at Mr.
Grimes's tarerr, at thc George, in Nor-hS;cond
ftrcet ; his friend# ive in New England ; fippof
ed to have committed fcveral forgeries in New-
X° and is said to be confined at the whecl-bar
row at Baltimrre for dealing watch- s. lhe other
is a {hort thick man, by the name of Gilbert, —
known by Mr. Grimes an t Mr. Bignall, aad leve
ral other p. if >ns in this city. Information given
by any person of the above men, to Wm. Prb.st
man No 15, South Filth-street, wdl be clteem
ed a favor. Gil crt is betw«en 20 and 30
years old yellow, sickly look.
m r ch *7. *3aw^w
Ked Clover Seed of the belt quality.
MADEIRA IVIi\E,
Old, and fit for immediate u£e, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glaf—all of which will be fold
en very reafanable terms, by
John Craig,
No. la, Dock Street,
march 1 w&stf
IHE term of the sub
scribers, trading under th; firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expires this day, ao J by mutual
consent wiH not be renewed* The debts ard con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John MiHer,
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the parrnerfeip,
are eameflly requetled to make payment to, with*
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19
L AND SNG,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR SAL* BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 $
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chcfnut ttree'.,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHIG 3 ARB
Gurrahs M.meodies
Bafta3 Sanna?
Guzzenas Tanda (joffacs
Guzzies Eniertics
' Blue Cloths Caliches
Palampoors Romail Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the ma
nufa&ures of Patna.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty purcheons of high proof Rum.
February 19
Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into parruerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
th y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front s /reet, Philadelphia ; when
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
fojtment of India, German, Irjb> French and Brt
tijb MannfacSluresfor sale, on advantageous termr
for cash or a (hort credit.
February 19 §tf
The Commission rs
FOR carrying into sffed th» TWEN'I Y-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, l.itiits.and
Navigation, httwem His Catholic Majesty andth-e
United Statcsof Am.rica, hereby give information
to all Persons therein concerned—l hat in urdet
to terminate all differences, on account of rhelolf
es fuftainedby the etizens of the United States, in
conl'equence of tht-ir Vcffels rid Csugoe. having
be«n taketiby the Sulij«<sh of His Ca'holicMajei
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc.,
that they are ready to receive (at tkeir Office, be
tween the hours of teftand drco'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications authorized by the said
I Article, during eighteen montbs, fr»m the day
of the date hereof, ar.d that they have power to
examine allfuch persons as c»me before them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the com: laints ill
question, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten testimony, authenticatsd in such manner as
they shall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of tbe Comrni/Jloners,
'PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
SommiJJtßners Office. No. 109, Mulberry
f.rect, May ipb, 1797.
Feb. 28, '98 —' im
*, * Those Prihters in tbe fever a I States tibo pvl'ljb
eJ tbe above adveritfemeut laji Spring, are requejled to
re-publijb it one montb ) and fend their Mconntt to T. L.
By John Fen no, N° iip Cbefnut Street.
LANDING
From on board the Schooner Ranger, from
Jaczveuzl,
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For hy
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 137 Chefnut street-
Whs has remaining on liaqd 6, 00 piccet In
dia NANKEENS, of « superior quality.
March it (t6t
just received; ~~
FROM rORT-AV PRINCE,
And FOR SALE, by tbe SUBSCR/CERS,
11 o hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
110 hogfheadsof Mufcova4o Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogflieads of Molasses
4 bale- of Cotton
a hnafbeads of C#coa
WILLINGS £5" FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march l». t,
Handing from on board the ship
Teoneifee, capt. Smith, from FamSurg,
And FOR Sr.LJ ? by the Subscribers,
325 pieces Quadruples Silefias
400 do. PlatiLas
l-oc do Creas %
52 do. do. a!a Morlaix
100 do. Dowlas
20 do. red Uriped -vrafeias
00 ■o, b'ue Guinea*
100 dozen'voi der d Ha: dkerthiefs
jEric iff Lewis Bollmann y
23, South I'hird (Ireit.
A7.SO, OA' HAND,
A cafe-04 printed Mcfiicitrrd C&lfcacs
march i t
Frefli 1 eas.
Jufl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sa/e % by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Ccopting Houff, No 54, Chefnut-llreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Comptmg House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
| China Ware, assorted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sat tins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
while-bone flicks.
They have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians Bandanna Handkerchief*,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai in boxes
march 8. §
To-morrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, capt.
Jones, from Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
MEDOC 7Of the vintages of J79C»nd 1791,
LATOURJ ' in cases
ALSO,
WHItE WINE, of the vintage of 1790
joR sal' ar
PHILIPS, CRAMOND €fj* Co.
march 7. §
" FOR SALE,
BV the st'BsCßiuEßt., i\o. ii, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,\rom Bengal,
Con/ijling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzeydo.
Humhums CharconnA Dorea
Blue Ch-th Tanjibs
Chuitz and Calicoes Muimuls
Mamoodys Cherks
Maharagonges Pat<ia Hkfs.
Gingh.ms Mklbiu da.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs ' Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Rom^ls
Salgatchys Sooly do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various col.
M&tk Pulicats
*OO toes SUGAR
96,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings cj> 3 Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale *t that
commodious ftnre the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alfo —A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patten.s and best colours.
February 8. , dtf
Ross y simsonT
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, "J
St. Vincents, > RUM. y
and B<xgal j
300 talks RICE, snd
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
os. 17. <5
Landing
From on board the Snow Maria, from Copen
hagen,
A few Ton| Ruflia Clean Hemp
jro pieces Uavens Duck
250 pieces Rufila Sheeting
aoo bolts Ruflia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iron
For Sale hy
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
IVbo have on Hand,
ift and id proof Bourdeaux Brandy
4th proof Spanish ditto
New-England Rum ♦
London Particular Madeira Wine in Pipes .
_ , a ", , t and quarter Calks.
London Market J .
Old Claret in Cafrs
14 hhds. Coffee just arrived ,
B.»ft Boston Beef in barrels
Mackrell in de.
Halifax Salmon in do.
A small invoice of Rhode-Island Cheese
Spermaciti Oil
1 anncts ditto
No. 1, 2. .1) Boston Sail Duck
Ruflia Cordage, and
Aii Invoiced Dutch Hollow Glass ♦V?re.
March I. djw
Schuyllcill permanent Bridge.
F.xrraA from " An Acl 'o authorize the Governor
of this Commonwealth to kicorooratc acorjpa
ny for erefliog a pcrqGJUitiir Briijje over th ri
ve Schuylkill, at or near tbe city of Philidi '.-
phi*."
Sec I thetrefurt ettafled by fbe Senate aAt
i ) ftcuie of Reprefe I'aiivet of the CoKptnn
ivealtb of /■m/jmi.M iV general /tJTemltj xref, it
ii hereby enafled !l tbe authority if tbe fjmi, That
Matthew M'Cort'cll, a d William Sh«4ff, pr any
three of *.em, lie, and at;' hereby appointed Com
millioiirrs to do'and perforiv the several duties
herein after inrntionjd, that istofay :
They (hall and may, 017 or before the firft i!ay
of June next procureone or more hooks, as tiny
Hull th:uk and therein enter >s I. Hows,
viz.
" We, whose names are hereunto fuhrcrihed, do
promise to pay to the Prcfident, Directors at d
Company, lor erecting a 1 rkige over the river
Schuylkill, at cr near ■he city of Philadelphia, the
Jum of one ollar at the of fuhferibing. an.l
one dollar in three months th«reaftir . tor every
share of flock in the f»id company, let or.pafite to
our rifpeciiye names, and therrfuluc thereof at the
rate ol ten rioliars for each fharc, in such manner
and proportions, and at such times is Piall be de
termined by thc President and Oi.re6lors ch ■f-iiin
pnrfuance of an a<ft of General ..(Tcmbly,entitled,
*■ An to authorize th Governor of tl.isCom
" mpnwtalth to incorporate a cotapp.ny for ereil
' " ing a pernwaeuthrilge over tin river Schuvlkiil,
•• at or near the ctly of Philadelph a"— and (hall
thereupon proceed to receive fsUVriptiims for the
flock of-the f?,id company, which iihereby declar
ed and int nded to h</ the Xum cf one hundred a'.d
fifty thoufind dollars, divided into fifrten thoyfand
fhartis, at ten dtilisrs each, at such times and plac
es as they fbidl thi k proper, of vjiich public no
tice ffiall be given, in three or iqore ft-. ; w 4 fpapers
(one of wh:ch lhall be ill thc *ero»an -iage)
printed in th? city or Philad-Iphia, lor at leaH
twenty days btfore the firlt dy of meeting And
if before the said flock be completed, they shall
adjoarn for more than three day c , notice of the |
time and place when and where the Commiflioncrs j
will next receive fubferiptions. shall be given in at I
lead one nevvfpaper, printed ill the said city ; and
it (hall be lawful lor any person, body politic, or ;
corporate, to fubferibe for as many (hares, not ex
ceeding one hundred in one day, as he» {he or they
(hall choose ; provided always, that every person
offering to fublcribe asaforefaid, in his own name, !
or auy other name, (hall previously pay to the at
tending commissioner one dollar, for cvrry ihare
to be iubferibed, cut of which (hall be defrayed the
expences attending taking such fubferiptions and
other incidental charges, and thc remainder (hail
be paid over to the treasurer of the corporation,
as soon as the fame fhUl be organized and the offi
cers chofan, as is herein alter mentioned ; but the
said commissioners shall rcferve three thousand
(hares, which (hall be appropriated by the President
and Directors, and used, if the fame be found re- 1
quifite, lor the purposes herein after mentioned, of
veiling therein the monies to be applied lor 1 fink
ing fund, to freethe bridge,and tocnable the Presi
dent, lJireiftors and company, to purch le there
with. if the fame can be done, a fcite or place lor
ereiling t bridge.
Such i f the said reserved (hares as are not used
for these purt oses, to be open for further fubferip
ti .n, or sale, as tbe President aud Directors (hall,
according to circumftar.ces, deem proper.
Seft. j. And be it further enaSed by the
authority aforefaid. That when one hur.dred
perfons,or more, fnill have fi.bforihed five thou
sand shares in the said stock, the said Commis
sioners, relpeftfvely, (hall certify under their
hands and seals, the names of the subscribers,
and the number of shares fubferihed by, or ap
portioned to each fubferiber, to the Governor of
thii Ccmmnnwealth, and thereupon it shall and
may be lawful for the Governor, by le ters pa
aent, under his hand and ftal of the slate, to cre
ate an ereil the futifcrii-ers ; and if the said
fubfcrlptian he not full at the lime, those also,
who shall afterwards fuWcribe to the number a
forefajd into one body politic and corporate, ia
deed 3rd in law, by thc name, flile and title of
" The President, Dire-Airs and Company, for
ere£ling a permanent bridge over the river
Schuylkill, at or near tbe eity of Philadelphia
and by the fajd name tlie said fubferibers (hail
have pcrp'.tnal succession ; and all piivileges
and franchifvs incident to a lorpcration, and
(hail l>e ,capable of taking and holding their
said capital ilock, and the increale ir.d profits
thereof; and of enlarging the fame from tune
to time, by new fubferiptions, in such mjEner
and form as they (hall think proper, if such en
largement (hall be found necejfjry to tilftl the
intent oflhisaift; and of taking, purchasing
and holding to them and their fuccefi">r.s in fee
(imple, c.r for any ess ettare, all such lands, ten ■
ements, hereditaments and eitate, real and per
foHil, as (hall he neceflai-y an I convenient to
them, in the profecntion of their work*, and the
fame to f II and dispose of at their pleafcire ; and
of suing and being fucd, and of doing all ami
every other matter jnd thing, which a corpora
tion or body politic may lawfully do.
The fubferibers Cemmiflior.ers appointed in
the %A before-mentioned for thepurpofes there
in exprefTcd, hereby give notice agreeably there
to, that books are provided, as the law direifls,
and that we will proceed to receive fubferiptions
for the Company Stock, on the 9th day of A
pril next, it the City Hall, in the city of Phi
ladelphia. Jhe fubferiptiont will be received
from ten o'clock in thc morning of the fa-d day,
till two o'clock, P. M. \ndthe books will con
tinue opeti during those hours of succeeding
days, at the fame place, until one hundred per
sons, or r.iore, fl all have fubferibed five thousand
(hares in the said (lock, as in and by the said ail
u dire«fied and req lired.
RICHARD PETERS,
JOHN PEROT,
GODFRY HA OA, '
MATTHEW iYTCONNEL,
WILLIAM SUEAFF.
Philadelphia, Hjfh March, 1798- jawtf
Prison M c.nufaclory.
FOR S.iLB, • \
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia, /
Cut Nails of all sizes, irom jdy to lody
Flooring Krads, Spriggs, fscldle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped I.ogWcoil
Shoemakers and Sadiers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble; suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea if ones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, win l-jw heais, lilis, c .
All which n-.ay he had on reafonahte terms.
Shoes m-iifc ai. i done at fciid Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders fri>n a diftarcc, to Daniel Tho
mas, agont fcr the pfifon, will tie attended to.
December 16. m'tkim
Mclafies at Audi ion.
___ i
On WEDNESD*Y MXT the 28th ioft. at II o*
do.k in the miming o> Wilcock •'« 'A harf,
Will be fold by Public /fudiion,
TOR C.iJH,
Forty Hogflveaos of Molafles,
• F » OOOD QOAUT*.
Footman & Co- Aotitioncere.
rorvrch i 3
On 1 iiefday, the loth day of
April next, at 7 o'clock in the even ng, ax
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Philadelphia,
"f T7TLL he exposed to public tale, fevenfecu
> V trails or parcel* of laud fituatrd 111 Point
to* nfhip in the county of N >rthumb*rhii>d,.and.
coii>aioinp in the whole fix t 1 >ufan J fevea hun
dred and fixtv-four acru ami three quarters,
with the nf ml allowance for roads.
Terms of fa!e, i-\ of the purchase money on
the execution of the dt*;l, t-» in three monthi,
and 1-3 in fix months, in gemef'notes or other
approved fecaritv
CONNELLY Js 1 Co. Auß.
March 9. lawtn.dtl a
AT LAS T. 7~
This Day Jj Publiftied, by William
CoBBETT,
OrroSITE CHK '3T CHURCH,
7he Democratic Judge,
OR THE
E$l T /!L LIBERTY of the PRESS,
As exhibited, explained and Vxpafed, in the
profecutian of
WILLI M COBBETT,
TO* A (RETINOID LIBEL «C«'MT
Tb* King of Spain and hit Emba/Jlidor, befort
I H0..1 AS WXKAN
Chief Jufiice of the <r.ite of Penn'ylvania.
By Peter Porcupine.
THE hubferiber informs those
to whom he is indebted, that a ptrfon \vjl|
attend every o!ay, Sundays excepted, until the ifl;
i °f next, frnm the hour« of 10 o'clock in the
morning till 1 o'clock inthw afternoon; at the houfc
; formerly occupied hy him in Chefnnt-fireer, for
the purpose of fhewingall hooks, papers and let*
! ters regarding his pall commercial trarfadio'is to
fuLh of his creditors as may think proper to attend
and examine them.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
march X. eotiA
To le Let,
A three story brick House,
ith Stables, and a.Garden containing nearly ene
i acre of choice ground, several Summer Houses,
j Fruit I rces, &c. on Race, and second street from
Schuylkill ; the whole in good condition, and the
fituatioti high, airy and excellent lor a place of
public entertainment.
An adjoining Lot, 40 feet front and no deep,
it alfa to let.
For terms apply to the fubferiber, at No. ?o.
Pine Areet * y '
Wm. currie.
"•"h »*. _ wstf
Ran away from the fubferiber^
on the 14th inll. two indented Irish Servant Men :
Thomas Vl'Guire, about 25 years of age and 5
feet 8 inches high, robufl, (tout, and well made,
short black hair, remarkabU for a fear on one of
his temples; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed fr m my
fe.-vice Jcffry Corbet, about the fame age and
height, but of a milder difpodtion, ard mon flsn
der make, ihort brown hair ; thtir working appa
relwas blue cloth over jackets, lined with coarse
brown linen, check and brown li::en fliirt., gr y
yarn ilockings, mixed twilled grey cloth tro'wfers,
an 1 ruffett leather (hoes; they have o'h reloading
which a.togethergiv.s them the appearance of fea
faring 1111 n, 1 ut have been brought up to the iarm
mg hufin-fs ; no doubt will have forged passe« and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the pod road to Phdapelphia, I pur
chaf.d them the la!! fall of capt. Rollins, in Balti.
more. I will give Fifty Dollars for securing theni
so that I get them, and will ray all reaforable
charges if .iroug'nt home, or if fepara'ed, Thirty
Dailar# forTfcomas. a'ld Twenty fi-r (~ ffry.
ARTHUR 3RYAN,
Head of Wye, 1 albot County—March 7.
marcl ' »*• .taw,,w
Law Hook Si ore,
No. 319, High-Creet.
George Davis,
TMPRESSEFI with the favors shewn him in hi.
A efforts to cftablifh a Store for the sale of Law
Book, only, brgs leave to inform the Gentlemen
of the Bar generally throughout the United States
that 111 addition to his colleaion now on hand'
which he fuppofesto be more extensive, than in
the pofftfficm of any one person forf.le in Ameri
ca, he expefls daily very larjefupphes from Lon
don & Dublin, particularly from the latter place
havingchiefly confined hi-importations to those »dil
tions, a being in his opinio , quallv correct with
the London copies, and well kuown to be infinite.
Iy lower charged.
G.D. limiting himfelf, fole'y to the sale of Law
Boolu, it will appear obvious to profcffni al gen
tlemen the great advantages they haveifi purchaCng
from him, btth as to feleaion and price, of vsliich
the encouragement l e has received for several year,
past, is (he bed tetiimony he can offer
3 iw 3 w
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 52, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnut Oreet
P EPORT of the Committee of the HoS
IV Reprefentativesof the United States, appoint,
edto prepare and repert Articles of Impeachment
again!! V.ILIMM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crime, and tnif.
demeanors, made in pursuance of a refolu'ion of
the Hours or Reprcfentatives, authorizing the raid
Committee to fit during the rccefs of Con.res., am l
mftrua.ng thru, '• to enquire, and, l.y 111 Uw rud
t ° dlfcover th « nature and cxt nt
" of the offence whereof the (aid William Elount
For Sale by th 6 Subscriber, '
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re
mains of the ftip India's last cargo from
Calcutta, will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fined particular Madeira wine
of the vintage of 1 795. '
Mtrdecai Lewis.
February 19 ,
\VoLVMF. XIII.CONGRESS.
—— • 1
house of representatives.
MISSISSIPPI TERRITORY.
FRIDAY —MARCH 2s.
The house being in a committee of the whole
on the bill tor the amicable settlement of li
mits with the state of Georgia, andfbrprovi- ,
ding a temporary Government-in the Missis
sippi Territory : I
" TV/I MILLEDGE renewed his amend
-IVL nient to insert at the beginning of the |
section di retting the temporary government
to be ereoted, " f<t soon as theconfent of the le
gislature of Georgia shall be obtained." —Mr. M.
observed, that the felett committee had
now reported all the documents on which the
United States claimed aright to this territory.
A» to the title of Georgia, he should not en
ter into any enquiry as to that. He would on
ly remark, that the State of Georgia wasaste
iiHciousof her rights as any State in the Union.
But he thbught it would not be improper to
e*unide the pretended claim of the United
States to this country. Looking into the Jour
nals of the Senate, he found that on the 3d of
, 795, a refohu ion was parted diretling
the Attorney General to enquire into and
make a report on the fubjeft of the title of the
United States 10 land in Georgia. No doubt
the Attorney "General not only examined the
recordsof the of Georgia, but those of
the United States, and obtained all the infor
marioH which he was able to do in the United
States; but not finding fufficient ground upon
v. h'ch to found a title, he applied to Mr..
Bayard, our Commiflioner in London, who
obtained a certificate on the fubjedl from a
Mr. Chalmers, .Secretary to the Board ot
1 rade and plantations. Twelve months after
he was directed to do so, the Attorney Gene
ral made a report on the subject ; "but none of
the documents which he reported went to
eflablifh the claim of the United States ; nor
any th'mg which tends to (hew that i ceilion
of Weft Florida was ever made. But he now
found amongst the papers got from the Sc
nate, a letter addrefled to Mr. Reed.of the Se
nate, from Mr. Liviogfton of New-York, in
forming him, that he inclofesan extract trqni
- the inftrrtftions given by the King of Gredt-
Bri'a'f, to Governor Chelter. But Mr. Li
vingltonVas not known as an official charac
ter"; ahd this document was neither official
nor'cert Tied. Y t this is the ground upon
w hich the United States claim this trait ot
country. Eefcre the General Government
proceeded to erect a temporary Government,
it ought to have better information with re
fpeCl to the nature of its claim ; for, to at
tempt to eftablilh .1 Government without the
content of Georgia, he thought would be
ftepp'ng beyond the constitution, two clanfes
of which he quoted. He hoped the general
1 ewers placed in Coßgreis for the defence of
the country, would not be resorted to fanc
v,oi\ the proceed ins. It was laid, the inhabi
tants cf the d strict of country alluded to,
were in a filuaii-on which called for ittimedi
a-e :>t ention. lie allowed that it would be
• rbrer to pay early attention to them; but he
•isougtn inconvenient as it might be, the
fretting °f a Government might be deterred
until the consent of the legislature of Geor
gia could be obtained. It ought to be remem
bered, tS:at :1k; state of Georgia is a member
of the Unio", and that it is her iirtereft to
make the ief ion, and he had no doubt (lie
would dft i'o. The convention of that state
meet in May, and if application was made to
them, he had nodoub' the Legislature would
be called together, and consent might be ob
tained by the month of July. He wasconfideat
the State of Georgia is de(irons ot promoting
the iuterefts of the United States ahd that (lie
is firmly attached to the Government ; all its
regulations had been conflantly carried into
eftett tht.re : and her consent to the eftablilh
ment of a p'rovilional government being ob
tained, every difficulty would be obviated.
■ Mr. Harper did not feel the fmalleftdeiire
to quefion the desire of the state of Georgia
to promote the biter-:(Is of the United States,
ahd he was glaJ to be infortned by herrepre
fentative, that (lie was so well disposed to the
general government, to which aflertion he gave
the fulleft credit. He, therefore, Ihould not
oppose the motion of the gentleman en the
ground that the state of Georgia would be
l kely tothrow a(iy obstacles in the way of the
proposed temporary government ; and he
ftiould be far from iuppefing that by the srec-
of such a government, the United States
would aflTume an extra-judicial rigtit to the
territory. He wascf opinion that the United
States polTelfed the right to it, qnd that the
molt undeniable evidence of the right exifled >,
but that evidence was not now before the
house, and if it were, they were not the pro
per body to decide the question. He believed
the amendment ought to be rejefcted 011 tHe
ground of policy. The bill went to provide
a temporary government, but contained an
claufe that the eftablilhment of this
government (hall not affect the rights of Geor
gia wiih refpeil to her right of the jurisdic
tion or foil of this territory. Conleqivently
the fears of the gentleman are groundless in
thfs refpeit. What, then, is the nature of the
amendment ? It is to prevent the erection of
a temporary government in a diftrift of coun
try containing upwards bf 5000 fonts, lying
far beyond the ordinary jurisdiCtion of any
state, with an immense wilderness intervening,
in which are two nations of Indians, and in
the neighbourhood of the territory of a for
eign nation, with whom, though we are at
present at peace ; when we recolle£t the con
nection fubfilting betwixt that nation and
another with whom we have differences of a
Jerious nature, we cannot reckon upon as lad
ing. Yet this remote and vulnerable corner
of the unisn is to be left defencelefs, for an
indefiniteperiod of time,left welhould poflibly
give umbrage to the state of Georgia, by pro
viding n temporary government there, before
tlie-difpute on the fubjeit of limits is fettled.
And whatever may"be the good uifpofition of
Georgia towards the United States, it would
require considerable time to obtain the con
sent proposed. Their legislature do not meet
till next Winter. It was true, as had been
slated, that their Convention met iri May,
and they might, if they thought proper, call
an extraordinary meeting of the Legislature ;
but this could not be relied upon. Besides,
he saw no necefß;y for so much punctilio in
» this cafe ; for fany state were toluftera part
»cf their territory, within its ordinary jurifdic
% tion, to lie in a defencelefs tiate, the general
government would be warranied in stepping
o'ltto defend it.'andcertuinly they might do it
ji a caf; like the present, where »no jurifdic
tio" is exercifcd. And if this was not done,
the petition of thefc people set forth, that how
ever unwilling they ftiould be to do 10, they
fliould be obliged to pass over to the Spanith
dominions.
Mr. H. said, he did not wifti to have touch
ed upon the question ot right ; but as the
gentleman from Georgia had said we liad none,
he felt himfelf obliged to fay a.few words up
on that point. He allowed the-committee
ha<l not before them evidence of the fight
which would be admiHible in a court of law ;
but though it were not f'uch as would be ad- j
I routed in a court of law, had it the»efore no ;
weight ? It was at teaft equal to what was eve-
ry day rece.yed by the committees of the j
huufe. The question was, whether the pa
pers before thetp afforded reason to believe
that legal evidence of the title didexifl ? It
was a copy of a conuniffion aud lodruCtions
given by the King of Great-Britain, to Go- I
vernor Chefler, of Well-Florida, in the year
' 1770, furnifhed by the gentleman who was
Secretary to the Governor at the time, and
I whole duty it was to keep the records of that
government. But the gentleman from Geor
gia said, search haJ been made in the offices ot
tl»e British government for the original, ot
which this paper was a copy, and it could no;
be found. But this was no proof it did not
exilh If it does cxift, legal evidence may be
obfcriifed from it ; aud this paper (hews that
the Natchez country was included within the
territory ot Welt Florida, and that it ceafedirt
the year 1770, to be a part of Georgia. He
believed, however,, this question not
now to be afted.upon ; but that from netefli
ty, and the exigencies of-the cafe, a tempo
rary government ought immediately to be
provided for this dilTriitof country, an 1 af
terwards fettle the point of right wiih Geor
gia by negociation ; and if ifwas found in the
end that the United Stales had 110 title to it,
the government which had been effablifhed
could be withdrawn.
But it was Hated, that the legislature of
Georgia would readily consent that the United
Spates (hould become pofll'lfed of this coun
try. But what, he asked, were the terms up
on which they propose.l to cede it ? I hey re
quired, as one of the conditions, a "million and
a half of dollars in fix per cent, (lock, and as
another (which was infinitely harder, lince it
might not be in our power to comply with it,
as it depended Upon the will of the Indians)
that the United States will guarantee th»re
linquifhment of the Indian claim' to the land
on the east (ide of the Catahouche, within a
certain number of years. There is little hope,
therefore, that the state ol Georgia will pro
pole any terms to which the United States
can agree, as it had been seen that the legisla
ture of Jhat (tale had rejected a bill by a great
majority, which proposed the price to be one
miilion'of dollars, with the other condition.
Of course, it would be very imprudent to reft
the eftablifhmcnt of a government in this
quarter, upon an agreement to terms like
these.
Befldes, the amendment would affect the
right claimed by the United States. To wait
for this consent would be tantamount to con
felTing we had no right, and arm Georgia
with a ft ran g weapon against us in the final
settlement. /
Mr. H. contended that there was nothing
in the comTitution which .could prevent the
proposed measure, lince it was absolutely ne
cefl'ary to prelerve the people from falling in
to anarchy, and to prevent a foreign govern
ment from putting arms into their hands. It
was also a quarter of the Union which it was
necelfary to preserve, if we wished to secure
the free navigation of the Mifliflippi, which
we had lately obtained by the Spanish treaty ;
for if this country were invaded by the Indi
ans, or involved in civil war, we could not
have the benefit of the navigation of that ri
ver. He hoped, therefore, when so many
confederations were opposed, to it, the amend
ment would be difagfeed to.
Mr. Nicholas understood from the gen
tleman from South-Carwlina, that it was not
intended to infill upon the title bf the United
States to the territory in question.; and it they
were net ripe to decide that the land istfhe
property of the United States, he thought
they ought not to eftablifli a government therfe
without paying fonie refpett to the rights of
Georgia, by obtaining her consent, as it
might prevent that amicable settlement of
whichwehadat present the profpett. Ifthat
Hate l'ct the Value upon the land which had
been mentioned, would it excite the ut
ntoft jealousy in that country to take forcible
pofTellion. of it > To do this, would certain
ly be to eftablifli an influence in favour of the
United States which would be fatal to the
claim of Georgia. No argument had been
adduced to Ihew the right of the United States
to this territory ; but merely to (hew the con
venience of the measure. TJie gentleman
from South-Carolina might as well fay," that
a certain diltritt in Virginia is not so well go
verned as it might be, and that as the people
wotild be happier under the government of
the United States, propose to take polTellion
of it. But it was said, Georgia had not be
gun to govern this territory. Neither have
the United States. She may, for ought we
know, be preparing to do it now. , He thought
there was not a (hadow of pretence for taking
(he course proposed, without firfl consulting
the legislature of Gesrgia ; he hoped, there
fore, the amendment would be agreed to.
Mr: J. Wiuliams. It appeared to him,
nhat if ihii amendment were to prevail, the
bill mighr as well be vdted out altogether.—
The bill had two objetts, viz. a settlement
of limits,, and the fixing of a temporary go
vernment. It was clear to him, from the
pipers before the committee that the United
States had a clear title to the country in ques
tion, and, if this w<is not the cafe, there was
a saving clause in favour of the Georgia claim.
He thought that (late ought to be happy at
the idea of the United States fixing a govern
ment there, as it would allifl them in their,
defence againfl the Indians. If gentlemen
turned to the a£ts qf Congress, it would be
found what a vafl expence the United States
had heretofore been put to in defending the
frontier of that country. He thought that
(late had been dealt with in a very favoura
ble manner. It was not long lince 100,000
dollars were paid to their militia fordefending
their frontier. He complimented the gentle
man from Georgia for having advocated so
ably the cause of his (fate. But he thought
that state ought to come forward and (hew
what title (he had to this country. It had
been ceded to the United States by the Spa
nish treaty, and the inhabitants there had a
claim upon the general government for pro
tection, and surely if the state of Georgia for
ever refufed to give its consent to a govern
ment being established there, they Were not
forever to be without government. The
people there had petitioned Congress .for a
government, ol which doubtless the state of
Georgia was acquainted, ai>d they ought to
have come forward in the bulinefs. Their
silence proved to him'hat they had no title to
that country. Mr. W. referred to the man
ner in which other cefiions had been made to
the union, and fa.d, he thought Georgia
ought to rejoice at the proposed eltablilhment;
as it would not only be benefiting that State;
but the Union at large.
Mr. Macon. If the title was intended
to be conformable to the title, the amend
ment ought certainly to be agreed to ; as if
the United States Uiltierlcok to eftablilh a
government at the Natchez, without the con
l'cr.t of Georgia, it could not be said to be
amicably done. 1 This, lie said, was neither
the proper time nor place, of deciding to
whom this territory belongs. The great ob.
jedt buglrt he gef a government there,
and iicnt i talk about what had been done for
I Georga. And it the content of Georgia
: could be obtained previous to the eftablifliment
ef this government, it was cer'ainly desirable
i that it should be obtained. I his would not
; iiijurc-the claim of either. When this was
: done, tome-mode might be agreed upon by
which the difipute at present subsisting, might
be fettled. This course would prevent any
i difficulties, and the content might be obtain
ed by tlw time the government could take
efl'edf.
Mr. Otis. If the object of the present
bill could be obtained ii*a mode which would
prelerve rights of ail parties as they at
present stand, such a courfc would be prefer
able- to that which should appear to rehnquith
the ri>-lit of aneofthe parties. Itftruckhim
that this might be eft'efted by the btll as it now
Itands. The United States aiHimed their right
to the land, yet they do not fry they to
turn a deaf ear to the claim of Georgia but
if thi ameiidme-iit were adopted, ii would go
to fe'linquifli ths title ot the "Dmted States,
and rifis, he thought, woiitd be an excels ot
coniplaifaiice to the (late of Georgia. T ne-'
only plausible reason giuen in favour of the
amendment was, that it the bill palled with
out it, it would give offence to, and excite
j-aloufy in tjie (iate of Georgia. But how
Because Congress palTes an ait to fettle the
interfering claims, and directs the appoint
ment of cornmiffioners to give ti.em a comptn
fation for what we might tatce without it ?
O becaute we fay we will enter upon the ter
ritory to which we al .vayslaid claims, in oide,
to preserve-peace and order aniongft the inha
bitants, and to secure it against the attack ot
the Indians or of a fereign power ? Gentle
inen seem to take it for granted mat* Georgia
has poffetfion ot this territory ; whei'eis thole
who oppose the amendment contend it is a
vacant pofTeflion, and that we haVea right to
take rvofleijlon of it, to hold it, not until an
army is railed to take ii from us, but until the
legal queftiort of right fha.ll be decided. And
it could not be said that there was any thing
offenfivein thiji Ifamau, forinftance, were
to enter upon a piece of land, and- lay he
would never give it up until he was driven
from it, it would certainly be an ait of viq
; but if he enter upon it only to take
care of it, uitti) a legal decifior. can be had as,
to his tight, fitth an aif was perfc£Hy julLfia
ble j a-iid t-hiS vyas all that was.intetwled inthe
present cafe.
Mr. Kittera hoped, if the bill palled at
all, it would be without the amendment.
This territory was never yet governed either
by the United States or Georgia, but had been
ceded to the United States by Spain, inour
late treaty with that power, and we ought to
retain poUeffion of it until the title to it was
clear. In this view ot the ftibjedt, he could
not lee how the state of Georgia could take
offence at our holding the territory until the
existing dispute was fettled.
Mr. Baldwin said, it was to be regretted,
as this was the last inllance in which thisquef
tion cfcellion could be presented to Congress,
that the fituatiop of the persons fettled upon
this territoy, was such as should seem to con
drain gentlemen to depart from the course of
their former proceedings on this fubjett. He
was fully inipieflfed with the Situation of that
people ; but he thought little delay would be
occasioned by the proposed application to the
Hate of Georgia ; nor would that consent
weaken, as had been suggested, the title of
the United States ;■ or if there was any forc»iii
the objection it might be guarded against by
adding a jew words lathe fedtion which speaks
of preserving the claim of Georgia as it now
stands.
Mr, B. said, gentlemen tvho had turned
their attention to the map, would fiiiJ that the
territory inqueftionis situate at the fouthwelt
corner of the United State* ; the southern
boundary is latitude 31, and the western boun
dary, the MifTilTippi, which is also the boun
dary of the United. Its extent is abou.t
280 miles tiorth and /011 th, and coming this
way, about 400 rrftles. That part upon
which this bill is bottomed, is little more than
one-third part of the whole of that territory.
The United States now reckon latitude 32J as
the boundary of Georgia ; but in the treaty,
and till very lately, it was always reckoned to
be 31, which is also the boundary of the U
nited States. This was, at any rate, a new
discovery, the official documents infupport of
which he had not seen. It was now i'uppo
fed that Weft Florida extends to latitude 32!
and not to 31, which is one degree and a half
more than formerlyf&pwfed. If this were so,
he wondered it had before been disco,
vered by England or Spain. Why was the
boundary of the United States always fixed at
31 ' He feared, that Since it became our in
terpft to extend the boundary, we had fuffer
ed that interest to colour our judgment. The
inftrudtions drawn out for pur minilter by a
former Secretary of State were, " you are to
contend Sir latitude 31." The ground upon
which he (tated this, Mr. B. thought irrelilt
able, and it was thought we might risk a war
upon it. Belides, this bill would not cure
the evil for which it was intended. There
might-be inhabitants still farther north ; this
bill provides only for such as are fettled with
in what had been called the Province of Weft-
Florida. Mr. B. said, he had never seen the .
documents which authorized this extension.
Ke had, indeed, seen the remarks of Mr.
Chalmers, who, he believed, was Secretary
to the Board of Trade and Plantations in Lon
don ; but he believed he had drawn what he
had said from the fame document which was
now reported, viz. the extradt.Srom the copy
of the inftrudtions said to have been given to
Governor Chetter ; but the order of King
and Council for extending it, the Attorney-
General fays in the 11th page of his report, is
not to be found.
Gentlemen had .said, why does not the (late j
ot Georgia manifeft adifpotition to make Some
arrangements refpedting the territory inquef
tion. They had done so. After the revolu
tionary war in 1783 or 1784, when there was
an expectation that the forts would have been
evacuated, they laid out a there, and
all the titles were declared good, and where
there was no other title occupancy was decla
red to be futlicicnt, and warrants were to be
issued accordingly. When he firft came to at
tend his duty in Congress, the Min*er from
Spain arrived about the fame time, when he
put in the claim of Spain to this territory,
which preven ed any thing further from being
done ; and as soon as it was found that the
arrangements made by Georgia gave umbrage
to the Spanish Government, they were given
up.
1 In the yeas 1788, the state of Georgia passed
1 anadt for masing theceClon of this territory to
; the United States. This %it Congress referred
to a committee, which reported that Govern
ment ought not to accept of the ceflion 011 the
I terms proposed. He believed the fame difpu
fition to make the celfion which always had
i 1 exiiled, now existed. He believed thedifpo
-1 | fi'.ion of the -Government of Georgia was ass
; favourable to tjjeitucrefts of the United States
'' as that of any other State. He did not rife to
(peak their praifex; but he could not fit 10
1 hear them blamed, without notice.
If the proposed goyeromer.t was proceed-
Ed w"ifh, without the consent of Georgia, it «
would be a direlidion of principle. He
thought fomefort of regulation might be made
a-nongft the people for their own government,
until Georgia was applied to. This was not 3
new cafe. There had been great settlements F
in several parts of the country long before I
'any government was provided for them. Mr. j
B said, he did not mean to undervalue the f
claim o'f the United States ; they had always g
' a claim in every cafe of feflion, but he hoped,
except there was an absolute neceflitv for it,
the ufufil course of proceeding would not be v
deparurd from. 1
Mr. Gordon the gentleman from Geor
gia complained that a different course was propo
sed now to be taken than bad been adopted hereto
fore. Inanfwer to this, tt was 'fufficent to fay,
tb.v 'where the etrcumftanees if caps, differed, i
i different mrfes •werenrefffar?. if:lb refped to
the mtriit *f the bill, hi tbwgtt it /toad right at
prtfent. Thi fitvalion <if the p&pte in ibe diflrffi •
alluded to, ivqsfuch of required immediate atten
tion. If gentlemen were not convinced of this, ■
be fail) no necefftty fir going into the buftnefs be- }
fire the fttbfifling dfpute belling t Georgia and 1
the United States was fettled. He believed, t
j boiMCvei', there luas -no dnubt of the fail, and c
surely the gentleman from Georgia -would not n-ijtt c
that these people should in<e under a military go- t
<vernment for zr.y length of time. Beittgfatnfied
rf this point, be ivifhed the bill to pass ivitbout the a
amendment, us might defeat altogether the . '
purptfe of the-bill. The claim of Georgia, be looked 1
upon at leafl as and as he canjidered • y
the IJnited'States as bound to proted all us c iti- ' j,
zens, he thorght the\- would not be jufltfiJt in re- '[ c
turning these people for anfiwer, " ii> r e cuttttot at- ,
tend to your wants until ive ba zrfettled our d fpute
with Georgia:' Georgia might refufe to nego- i J
date upon the fuSjcel, and by that means protract d
the bujinefsin a manner which would be 'very in- e
convenient, and perhaps dri<ve the people under, j,
another government. Bejides-, if Georgia should \
refufe its consent to the eflabltfbment of a govern
ment in that quarter, it would, be &
proper to eflabli/l one. The United States, Mr 1
G. said, came into poffejjtun of this territory by v
treaty. Butfvppofe it was now in pojfeffion of a (
foreign power, would Georgia attempt to drive
them from it ? Certainly not. It would amount
to the ina king of war on a foreign power. Suppose
Georgia bad a title to this territory,, bad nut the ■
United States thepower of depriving "C.~~fia of •
its 'Suppjfe, In their treaty with Spain, the Unr- !
tettberr)fur rendered to Spain one balf of this land, 1
or thf tubole of it, Georgia would have been I
bound \y such an ad ; and having got this terri- j
lory by treaty, tbej bad certainly a right to eflab- j
itjb aprovifional government over it, until the j
difptite, as to the title, was fettled.
The question of this amendment was put
and negatived 46 to 34-
[The debate which succeeded, on the fub
jeft cf Slavery, for want of room is deferred
till olt next.]
NEW-YORK, March 21.
Ovr readers will rtcolietSt that when the pa
per* containing the proofs of the conl'pi ocy of
Pichc-fcru, Were firft published in the United
Statt, many people pronounced tliein fabrica
tions, and all, even the friends of the present
rulevs of France, had their doubts of their au
themicity; but some peoo'e affedled to believe it
impoflible for the Direflory to be so daringly
wicked, as to procure papers to be forged for
the purpose of ridding themselves of the compa
ny ofhoneft men, by a viphtion law and
coriftitution.
We never hid the least doubt on either of
these points. The papers carried forgery
on the very face of them; and we have itated
in former p'.prs, that flprtilar forgeries have been
frequently praitiftd, and'dctedt.'d, during the
revolution.
The declaration of M. D'Entraigues, and of
Borel, the PrufTian printer, which we have
published,come in aid ot the inteinal evidence
of the while pretended corref;)bndence, to prove
it all the machination of villainy
There is nothing in the annals of the wsrft
princes that ever existed, that marks such ex
treme corruption, and total abandonment ot all
the principles of re£litude, of hr<»or, of law,
and all regard to social and political morality, as
the conduit of the present government, of
France. and other vicious
Roman F.mperorj, carried their contempt of
virtye and decency, as far in particular instances,
towards individuals; especially in foo.e of their
drunken vagaries. But never, never was villainy
organized ii.ro system, and reduced to a praftical
code, for the governmsnt of a great nation,
befori the present revolution.
One thing is morally certain, the existence of
fach a system cannit be durable. Either the
Frenchnation willrifein mafs,or all the civilized
world will confederate to crush such a race of
mon iters.
NORFOLK, March 15.
ExlraS of a letter from Nctubern, A T . C. I
March 3. 1
" Oil Thtfrfday last, about midnight, the I
inhabitants of this town were alarmed by
the cry of Fife. A large body of smoke t
was discovered issuing from the cellar of the j
PalaGe, and so filled the entry and appart- 1
ments on the First floor, as to leave it as a 1
matter of doubt, what part of the building .
was on ftre. The flames firft made their apt
pearance through the floor next to the foot <
ef the flair cafe ; they almofl instantly reach 1
ed the cupola, and the whole roof blazed t
nearly at one time." 1
" Every piece of timber, and all the 1
wood work of that edifice, both within and <
without, were corffumed., The Colonnade 1
whichjoined the main building to the wings (
was pulled dowrf, aud tht fire did not {pread 1
any further. 1
" A quantity of bay which had been
placed in the cellar, and to which by some
unknown means fire was conveyed, occasion- 1
ed the conflagration." 1
BRIDGE-TOWN, February 24.
In consequence of the advices received I
from Martinique, we have the pleasure to an- 1
nounce the arrival there of a French cor- 1
vette, called the Scipio mounting 22 guns
tr.d parrying 159 men, with three moHths -j
provisions,- 'captured by.'his raajelty's {hip
the Alfledj so close iii the Bay of Bafle
terre, Guadaloupe, as to be fired at m>m
the forts, wfiich proving ineffeflual, shells
were thrown ; but thete also in vain,
Alfred bearing off triumphantly her
prize. Few captures have been more time
ly made for the p.efervation of our trade,
as it is avowed that this privateer was ce
figned to cruize to Windward of this l'flartd
in quest of our lately arrived fleets, and but
for her capture on the I ith intt. the day of
her departure from Guadaloupe, she to a
certainty must have reached her ftatiVn in
time to do that mifebitf that was jrceditat
ed.
From the Columbian C, itti.:rl.
MR. RUSSLLL,
I fend you an extra# from Edes and Gill
paper printed in Boston, the 26th Nov
1759 ; with a request that it may be rc l
published.- It will then be seen, that the
sentiments and language of the French ha? e
always been precisely the fame FreHthmen
■will be Frenchmen Jlill. —The paper I l cai ,.
with you to be ftitwn to any one who douhtl
the faa. A . B
Invasion of England.
Exaft tranjlut 'ion of a letter from the Marshal
Due tie Bdleifle, to the Prince de Soubiie
uJjoii the Intended conquejt of England.
Though the king cannot doubt, but that
your highness will punftually execute all
that his majesty gave you in charge at part
ing, yet his majesty's attention to the in
terests of his people, and the glory of hit
crown, (two objects that are infeparafely
connected) is such, that he has ordered me
to repeat to your highness his commands,
and to add to them whatever suggests itfelf
to me for his ferviee.
His majesty, Sir, has committed to
you the fwerd that is to chastise a proud and
insolent people", from whom France has re
ceived more injuries, th-.ni from all the world
besides. I felicitate your highness upon
your being appointed to command an expe
dition, that can hardly fail of success : An
expedition worthy to be planned in his ma
jelly's councils, and worthy you to txecute.
I have, Sir, the mure confidence to con
gratulate you upon this glorious dillin&ion,
ft'ewji you by his majaly, betaufe I myfelf
was once an eye-witn*?ls of the difficulties,
(which are next to none-) which you have to
encounter, after your troops are Undtti, for
there I conceive the gi-eaicft difficulty mull
lie. Yes, Sir, my misfortune of being a
captive in England, has tuxned out tc, the
good of France; btcauie it has enuDi.d me
to execute the king'; commands, la wr 'in*
to your highness, «i u more prrcifion, as
well as to concert, with greater certainty,
the meafuves ot the expedition vou are en
gaged in.
" In the firlt plac, then, the kinjr's idea
is, that the nearer yorir traops can land to
the capital, the success of the expedition
will be the ijiore certain. But if, through
the accidents of winds and tides, which
none cats forefee, you should be obliged to
land at the distance of 'BO or jc© milti
(which is the most that we can iuppofe)
from the capital, yet I have the pleai'ure to
a flu re your highness, that you will meet in
your march towards London, which is th»
great objett of your destination, with r.one
of those obstacles of forlifided towns, en
trenched pasTes, or strong camps, that oc
cur so frequently in those countries that have
been long the feat of war, andof whichyour
highness and I have had so often the expe
rience.
"Ihaveftillagreaterpleafure in informing
your highness, that the English regular
troops, at present, are mostly ia\v, new
railed, and undifciplinej ; The bell part of
their army being employed in Germany and
America. Some of their old regiments are
in Scotland, and others are distributed thro'
England, to curb the spirit of difeontent
and difaffe&ion, that every where appears
against their government; and which must
operate greatly in favor of his majelty'i
arfris, as soon as they can be carried by your
highness to the Britilh (hore6.
" After faying thus much, I need not
inform your highness, that the refiAance
you will meet with, in your march to the
capital, will be but feeble ; nor, perhaps,
had it not been for his majesty's pefitive com
mand, needed I to remind your hightiefs of
the necessity of making cheice of the strong.
eft grounds for your cimps upon your march
and entrenching your troops every right for
•fear of a surprise. I am, however, in a
more especial manner, it to
your highness, to leave the enemy do re
sources, either of subsistence or habitation,
excepting such of them as shall give your
highness unqutjliondble proofs of their sincere
fubmiffiou and attachment to his majesty's
ferviee,
" The glory of France, Sir, requires,
that your highness (hould not, like the En
gliffi, aim at a diverfton, but a conquejl. and
what a glory will it be for a prince of the
house of Bourbon, to plant the standard of
Fiance upon the towers of London. His
majesty's ideas, Sir, are, that where con
quelt begins, all liberty, and all property,
those savage terms, (vice: terms farouchesJ
that are so often in the mouths of our ene
mies, must determine. In this, Sir, your
highness well knows, his majesty is warrant
edj not only by the law and practice ot
nations, but by the example of William
of Nsrmandy, a vaflal of France, who, hav
ing conquered England, forced them to part
with their freedom aud estates ; which, as
I hope your highness wilj have the glory 0
doing, under his majesty's *"thoii
ty, he distributed amongst his faithiol Id
le wers.
" His majesty, whofe-innate clemency is
favorable even to his enemies, does not com
mand your highness, unless there is an abio
lnte necessity, to put all to the sword, with
out dilh'n&fon of age or sex, who o no.
join vour standard. But I apprehend there
will 'be a necessity for leaving them no re
fo.irce, as I had the honor to mention be
fore to your highness. either of f» 1 '
or habitation. A prince, who like you
.ighnefs, cultivates no sentiments b»t what
are magnanimous and g" ,ero " ! '/r :p' rtc i
tain no noticui of the perfidy" '
ers, and their implacable
Sir, and the provocations they a g
France, will warrant the moll severe, and
what in other cases, might ece
most cruel treatment that can be M*
upon them. Your highness, who.inhmtt
tfe sentiments, a. well as
great Turenne, must have le /which,
proceeded against the Pal****,wV I compared to England, was iaoffcnftve
towards France J as soon an his mailer's glo
, ry required him. He did r.ot, Sir, indulge
the mistaken notions of humanity, which,
at such a time vrould have been criminal, but
proceeded indiscriminately with fire and
sword againll the enemies of France, be
cause none, who are fo'can be innocent.
And ytt, Sir, give me leave to remind you
that Yuremic had not a foe so inveterate and
unrtafonable as to deny, that in his pra£lice
' »3 well as disposition, he always manifefted
sentiments of the most fublittfe virtue and
tender companion.
« But such, Sir, is his clemen
cy, that in the facrifices he (hall offer to his
jtlftice and his glory, you make a diftin&i
cn betweeo a<Sls of refinance by deeds, and
thoft by 'word. The latter, in forae cases,
may be equally, nay more criminal ; but
when they proceed no further than com
plaints, or, in some cases, remonstrances,
his majesty, out of his unlimited clemeney,
wills that you spare .the lives of the offen
ders, and reserve them for his gallics, if they
are proper, and able bodied, for that ser
vice ; if not, his majeily leaves it to your
highnefii, what other punishment you will
inflift upon them. v our highness is len
fible, from the particular information I had
the honor to lay before you, of the necessity
his majeily is under, of fabvicatinng and
manning an additional number of gallies ,
and I need fay 113 more to convmcea prince
ft}, enlightened at your highnefi, of the ne
cessity of that service.
" As to the alterations which his majesty
shall think proper to introduce into the in
ternal policy, government, and religion of
England, his majesty has commanded me to
tell you, that your highness (ball receive
full inflrtnSions on those heads* as soon
as his majesty shall be truly informed,
that the conquest is compleated. In the
mean time, permit me, Sir, to offer to your
highness a word of my own private opinion.
" The-Eogliftv £iiy art- ojw»iMrj.W-wT>n
and whatever mild treatment yetifliow theni,
they will attribute to your fear, and not to
that generr fity which is so inherent in the
French nation. Hunger is the readiest way
to make them ftibjefU, and though amidll
such a plenty as there is in England at prc
fertt, the tafi< r. ybe difficult to introduce
a fami..e, yet I am (o fenfibleof your hfgh
nefs's zeal and attachment to his majeity's
service, that you will think no labor too
great that can conduce to it. One thing I
would recommend to your highness (and. the
rather because it is very praflicable) which
is, that after securing plenty to your own
troop 6, you spread a real defolau'on (defla
tion veritable j over the reft of the eountrv,
without regard even to the properties of such
of the inhabitants as shall profefs themselves
to be the most attached to your interest.
" I am the rather pleased that I have
given this hint to your highness, because it
is as yet very doubtful whether his majesty
wil] fuffer the name of the person you know
of to be employed, or so much as mention
ed, up«n this important occafton. But his
majeftycommands meto acquaint your high
ness, that be lbdll r in that refpcct, be great
ly determined by the advices he (hall receive
from you. But, in any event, the hint I
have given to your highness may not be un
/ ufeful ; because his mijefty is too penetra
ting, too magnanimous, and just, to fuffer
any other person whatsoever, belides his own
fubjeifls, to share in the fruits of so import
ant a conquest.
" I have the honour to be, Sir, your
highnefs's most devoted, faithful servant,
The Marshal Due De Belleisle."
r
Frrm the Columbian Centinel.
The PURSE STRINGS.'—No. 111,
Or an examination of the late alarming attempt
jn CoNGRRSS, to CONCENTRATE ill. rOlU~r
inlhc Hiiusp of R r presen r at.v 1.
TSLLOtV CITIZENS I
Having (hewn the necessity of preserving
sacred the complex forms of our constituti
on, and of maintaining firmly the barriers
between the re'fpedtive branches, and having
proved, that good'faith and firmnefs are ab.
folutely necessary in the several organs to
prevent a clalhing which would be fatal to
order atld Harmony ; —let u» now conllder,
whether the late attempt in tna House of
Representatives to strike «ut of the appro
priations, the items which relate to foreign
intercourse, is not a manifeft violafion of the
constitution. I consider this measure,(should
it be carried) an usurpation ; —I consider
the attempt bold and alarming ; —it ought
to be destroyed in embryo ; —it (huuld be
flopped at the threfhhold. The grounds of
my opinion I shall state with brevity, and
then proceed to examine and support them
in detail, ift. The President has th? sole
power, with the advice of the Senate, to e
v ftablifh, superintend, dire£l aftid controul
the intercourse of our nation with foreign
governments. 2d. The house of represen
tative has no right to interfere with, man
age or check this power nor examine into
the expediency of its exercise, (except for the
purpafe of impeaching a Prelident who may
abuse this trujl.) 3d. The power to appro
priate money, does not imply, or include the
right to infringe any existing contradls or en
gagements made in ptirfuance of (landing
laws. 4.th. No one branch of the legisla
ture has a right to refufe ajfent to any mea
fufs which is absolutely necessary to carry j
into effeft a law pa(fed by both brandies.— :
sth. A refufal of one branch of the legifla- I J!
ture to do an aft which a constitutional law f
has made necessary, is as criminal as the re- a
fufal of a Prcfident or Chief Justice to per
form the functions prefcrihed to them, and
if any tribunal exiiied haVitig competent ju
rifdidtion, such conduct would be punijhable. _
6th. This doftrine cont-:.;ded for by Gallatin
Jacobins in Congress, is novel in the Iwllory
of this country, and every other balanced
government, yth. If fuceefsful, it not on- | k
ly ntay, but will necessarily destroy |i>
the constitution. j p
1 1 he President has the sole power to ;
c.tabliCi, superintend, diredi and control the'? n,
e , latercour/cof our nation rn'th foreign frov
- | ienpnts. He is .he sole dcpof.tary of ,11
•e executivepower. The constitution has de
! dared that " the Executive f , wcr (hall be
it vested m a Prelideßt." Tf no other ex
(l predion, w#re uf-d in the constitution, th
:- I contend for would be implicitly ced
- cd to the President—i ft. Because the exec
u utivc power naturally includes the poiverto
d carry on mtercoufe with foreign nation,-I
e need not cite upon this point the opinion of
d enlightcd statesmen. MontescTu.eb,-
Il°k K, L DE J^° L r M£ and Adaws > n i'lht
be adduced in support of the proporti
on. 2d. Because no such power ii given
3 °7 1 .constitution to any other branch : ad.
i- Because it is mo ft clearly neither a legislative
d nor judicialbut a* aft p u ,-ly execul iv«
ir. its nature, except the treaty■ making,w
t er, which is expressly delected to the Pi rfi
i- den: and Senate. 4 th. Becat.fe it would be
i, inexpedient that f*ch a-power fliould be vest
' u a ? 7 htre b ? t , with executive. As
the legislature is too numerous to carry on
y regular ccnefpondence and intercourse with
•- j foreign nations, and a, they are in session
t only fix months in the year, fuel, communi
-11 cations would be frequently irppoffible, and
I- important negotiations often wouW b' inter
el rupted and deitroyed But the executive,
y c,i the other hand, nnv be always approach
d ed,. ,nd is better qualified during the rtcefs
, of Congrtfs than at any oth.-r tirtie to watch
e over our external relations. sth. The ex
ercise of the authority hy the Prefid;nt dur
ing the hrft eight years pra.aife upon the
y cofhtitutiou, with the perfeft acquiescence
1- of both branches therein, is another power
' 1 ar g<"liei>t in favor of this conftfu&ion.
0 —6th Congress, containing within its;bofom
e the eagle- eyes ofjealous democracy, has not
n only implicitly afTented to this principle,
I, but has expressly recognized it in a great
e j 11 uniter of public ads, ettahliftwd the Be
r pat tment of foreign affiirs, since called the
1. department of State—l:, which, the power
n.pMcany on ifce
, Hons, 13 " exprtjy" admitted with
1) the President. 7th. i'be Conllihition it
e Ms directly authorizes the President to ap
j point all nmlaffaders, other public minifiers and
\ Consuls. _ I have been thusmimite in fuppor
- ting the implicit power of the President to
e 1 egulate our intercourle with foreign nations
- because, I know it has been contended that
s although he has the power of afpointment,
3 Mill tbat Congress have the right lodeterm
t ine the number and the grade of public min
e ifters. A dodiriue 100 absurd to be believed,
1 too dangerous to be admitted ; a dodlrine
1 which if admitted in full force in this cafe,
will eventually drawallpower intoone branch
, of the government, and thu3 destroy the
1 Constitution. The President, has then, I
3 conceive, unquellionably the power to de
cide upon the bejl means of carrying on our
; foreign correspondence, and the number
t and the grade of the agents whom he will
f employ. He alone is responsible for the faith
r ful execution of this branch of power. he a
lone ought to pwftefs the power to regulate
1 its exercise. All artibafTadors and other
public mini tiers are as clearly eonflitutional
- officers as the Vice-President of the United
; States, and their rights are as sacred and as
[ inviolable as any officers in the administration
- of the government.
THE PARTNERSHIP OF •
; wells Morris,
HA VING i-xeirt-d on the nth 1 ebrnary lal\
all persons having demands againlt the said
Part, erfhip, are requettej to furniin'heir accounts
or fi.ttlerr.ent ; ana tliofe indtb'ej to tile fame,'la
> make ims.ediat - paynjent to the fu' f ri'icr
GIDEON H. WELLS.
> N. B. Ihe buiii ei> will i,e carried on as hereto
fore, hy the fubferiber, at his Store, No. 135, M_r
kelZl£±___ lw march i 4.
, G 1 A' iS K A' G y
SAMUEL HOWELL,
NO. 54, CHESNUT STREET.
Wants to purchite good Ginseng,
gathered in season, and elear of damage—
for which a generous price will be given if j
| delivered any time before the 15th of April,
march 21 ict
no i ice;
THREE Cert ficatesof >is Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United State* of the following
refcription, vii—No. 10033, rco/4, arid rooj ?
for 5000 collars each, dat d BtH May, 1797, and
llan.'ingon the of the l'reafyry of tlie Uni
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lanoyer Hou'e, near xhei gavenney in England,
Esq. have been loft hy the capture t)t the flnp
'chu=, from hence to London,in June lait.—l his
therefore notifies th' fe whom it may concern, that
apjlicaSion will be mad _• at th: l'reafury oi the U
nited Statesfcr a renewal of the fa ne
Waddington Sis Harwood.
march §(iw
1 wenty Dollars Reward.
THE Store occupied on account of the United
Statts, back of No. 7r, North Water-dre-.-t
wa» on thenightof the 19 h fiittant bro
ken open, and the following ariick» stolen, and
taiten therefrom :
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
-374 20 a) < s -7 Blue ftroud single
2 37 8 20 * \ cord. g
2379 20 J
2380 20 \
2381 20 \
2;82 20 n , ,
J n , i wo cord.
2383 20i
2384 20
2385 ?o i j
\ lie above rewards offered, for rn'6 tlifrrvwry
|of the pei-pctrators ot this robbery.,'fo that the.v ,
j be apprehended, and made ameiritble to jullice ;
further reward,will be paid, for the recoviry of '
any part of the goods ttolen, ou delivery ol the
fame to
JOHN HARRIS, ,
Keeper Military Store«. 1
o-.arch It. 1 \v t
TORENT,
A good three story Houf?, 1
TWO rooms o!i \v:th a convenient C
Kitrher—in Front, near South-2)rect. Enqmri
of. the Pri\\p?r. rraich "l—^aw^w
Hyion and Young Hyson Tea.
n few "f cx- I'cLt ua!ity. f or (Ve, cor *
ne: oi Sicocd aml Fine Precis. a6—corf t
By this day's Mail.
e
NEW .ORK, March 23.
» This morning about one o'clock a fire
. broke out fn the house of Mr. Wilmerdi'ng
. accupied by Mr. Sperry, Maiden lane, and
1 totally coßlumed it, being wholly ol -wood.
[ The two houfts contiguous, btl> Mo-inir to
f Edward Dunfeomh, Etq. and Mr, Stephens
. are nearly ruintd ; only the walls are Ifan.l
---t ing-. 7 lie property w;is partly fcfured, but
'h e hi.i is conliJeiable* YVe learn that the
, sceident pnxetded from a (love—another
important IclTon oh that mode of warming
f rowtts 1
■
The President tcl!s»Congrefs> " I have
. obeyed the calljof mj' counti)', the wilhes
; of my ow|j heart and those of all good ci
. tizens, in attempting to prelerve a good un
s dei llano.ng with I rance. My efforts have
1 been ■ ruitlefs—r-I cannot fettle ourdiffcrences
j on terms compatible with the honor and in
, tere.l of my couutry. I mull leave the bu
. fini-fs to flie national Legislature If they
1 will not proced thecountry, the blame mull
reft on thtmfelves."
1 ut fays the French American Printer,
. " mtiil we tak* the President's word for
) the fa£t ? He has not told congress what
1 f Jf er s he had made to France. How do we
. know what efforts the President has made
. to preserve peace ?"
In (hort has the President empowered the
; envoys to break the Britilh Treaty ? for this
. is ail the bone of contention.
No, certainly. The President has no
1 power to break a treaty, which is the iaw
t ol the land and a national compaft—He
, can neither violate it himfelf, nor aulho
; iize agents to violate it. Then so long, as
. t tie French denand a violation of that treaty
; as a preliminary to negociation, no accom
r njodjtioti can t.-.ke place, tbro the rpedium
.|-of the executive—Hii -JjHnds are tied by
1 tiic conlli.ution and laws of tiis country, and
by the law of nations.
As to the dispatches, they doubtless con- 1
1 tain some private convention or unofficial
. proposals, which the President cannot with
1 propriety, difdofe—The chief executive
i magi (Irate has declared officially to Con
gress that he cannot fettle exilltng differences
, between France and the United" States. To
his private veracity and his public responsi
bility, wc are to give full credence ; and that
man who infimiates that he is not to be be
lieved, deserves a pillory.
The Hujlfon at Albany used to be
about St. Patrick's day, March 17th. But
this year,*- the ice on that day was at lebft
20 inches thick. The cold has be en unu
sually long and severe. It began about the
middle of November—the Hudson at Al
bany has already been closed more than 17
weeks—Heaven grant that we may not
have a long, sultry, unhealthy summer !
Xfte
P HILAD EL PH IA ,
Monday evening, March 26.
.j
thief' trap.
Yesterday morning about 2 o'clock, the
family of Mr. Young, at the corner of Chef
: nut and Fourth Street were alarmed by the
cry of murder. After some time it was
found to proceed from a negro fn the kitchen
chimney. It appeared that to facilitate his
passage into the house by that medium, he
had taken off his coat and thrown it down
the chimney with a hatchet ; the fire that
happened to be on the hearth being thus dis
turbed made a frwoke, which almost fnffoca
tedthepoor wretch, who iudefcending lluuk
fad in the middle. By the affi,lance of a j
| sweep, ropes and a boat-hOck after five or !
j fix houraexertion he wasextra<ftedhalf dead,
and in a wheel barrow trundled off to Jail.
He did not look quite as cunning when he
came out, as bethought hitnfelf when he
went in.
ExtraS of a letter from a gentleman in Boflon >
tohis friendin Philadelphia, dated March 18.
" My brather this day put into my hand
the iticlofed. The writer 1 know to be a
man of veracity. The captain he quotes
has also that chara&er ; and the intelligence
has credit in this town."
Es'.raS of the letter above referred to. ;
Glouceller, 16th March, 1708. '
, sir, ;
The schooner Violet has arrived here af
ter a passage ot 32 days from Rochelle, the ;
captain has brought no French papers. The
news we receive by liim is that our Envoys
are not received, and that he saw a letter
from the American agent at Paris, to the
American agent at Rochelle, informing him
that the Direttory proposed to the Council
of Ancients fa miltake for the Council of <
FivtHuudreciJ to pass a Decree to make
good prizes of all vessels that had their pa- j
pers signed by John Adams, for they con
fidcred him as an Enghfhman, and his lafl
speech as the echo of one lately delivered by
: Mr. Pitt in tie Britifii Parliament ; That -
great preparations were making to carry »n (]
the expedition againlt England : Bptat the t
fame time it was the opinion of the bell in- 0
formed people there, that it would not be 'J
attempted " : ,
. ~ 1
$ turbid libeller, in a jacobin Conn<i£li. Nt f,
pr n', wl.ofs prof!"' kin is copied into the jiu
fo-a of to-day, • .s the hacknied rflrrfion j 3
t[.2t the oldfoldien enemies to goreriiirn-ni.
Tfis palpable la fhoud is not the lels intxet fiblt a
nor left ii'tamoHt, for its frequent repetition vi
It may be tp'.dly proclaimed that not an office S
of the lealt c>c.iit <r rtfi e«iabili;v, or whs»
ct> 11 (! 1.(i) during the revolutionary linifglr, wil.
hear fciurny, is n.vv to be fouuj amoiis.l the
hafe hirrliiig crew of calurr,n aiing jjcohius.
so afTcrt. ti-ienntrarv i.- a libel on that bind of
noble frnls whiih ih« biazrn Wn^Vrii'(tliirlirtiu" ''
tor t to aufw:-r far. p
To the Mrmtffi if the 2 f njj'iwi .
ft is with regret tljit I trpubie vou <ip > ■ a firb-
Ij.dl wl i • ti you may appear of ipferior nr J
ni'U(!t fume others under y<M}r of rtGderaiiaii .
to tlit inhihitanrs of this ci.y rnd t>> n 4h
hoiliootl appear. of pr rrary i.np»rtin>.e. . Th ;
: futj;(fi I p.liudc rnis the Gcrma.itowr. I'u spike
' : ill.>■; ich is at this time b.'i.re vhi The »!»*!"-
1 it ons m, de in that hi in th- hrufe °f r*pr f. n
. t tiit ,wi rrn eft pc-frift y nujraf'.rv a
, i.ftrltls unit)" amended by yrur
f. . It !v said, tint it amendments to the ' ill are
made by lie Innate so as to reduce it't'i ts
nai form, they « ill be agreed to bv the house of
repr■■k ir.apves ; it is even bid, that ike m.-m
* I was the moll lio'iile lo tiic in its
r progress thri u h the lower hnn. r e will acquiefcr;
, bu: f r this I will not avouch, as lam rather
inclined til think that his j-r de will nut f- ffcr
him after a long and peifevering fupuort of <er
mii piinnples to i rljail opinion*puhiji y given,
however, a majority ol the hoclenf repre
frntatives will agree to thufe amendments, it is
■ iutfici'nt, whatever may be the difpoli ion of
hit ipt m'er. It they wilPr.pt agree to thenj.you
can rece c and the bill may pass. But 1 can
not help declaring that the opinion of every pej*-
f.'ti with whom I have convcrfcd upon the fuli
je,?. is, that it would be better for the bili to be
Vjgativcjt thin pas. in its present form.
Report Tay°, that the member alluded !o has
fin e the i aforrfald bill .was feot rn your house,
been frequently fcea in the I'etiate chamber —
what his bufiaeis there could be we know not ;
nor ts it material to ua, for furc I am shit you
will not luft'.-r that influence whi.'h operated be
low, to afeen.i within your walls.
Although the member rtfsrrcd to maybe the
frietxl and intimate a-quintan't of' many of
you, yet I impe and trull that thee line. which
you may think too personal, will not hjve the
, lef» weight, more efpetiaily when I allure you
I am his IrictiJ—that as a private trinzvn, I ef
teenrt um —as a public man I highly refpedl him
1 m>i only for the foindnefsof his political prin
ciples,|but f»r his independent and patriotic
nmduft ill the house of which he is * in<-mbcr
excepting milt»n the /nihil of Vttrnpikrs— Lft
, in-e then entreat you to amend the bill in fitch
maimer that it will" be possible to cany it into
'A. B.
The following ext-atf, hearing; every semblance
ot trt't') asd jufiice, ought not to te lefa kn
pre.Tive for cominj» from ihe pcfi'cf Callcn
der.
i " .'n adtfenfive war,we [Greit-Rritain] may
fafeiy Wcfy ail the nations of Europe When
the wkale civilized world was embodied under
thchanntra of Rome, the most of
her conquerors, at the held of thirty thaufand
veterans*, disembarked for a fee,*>nd time on
thecojft of Britan. The face of the country
was covered with a forefl,and the solitary tribes
were divided upon the old quellion If boJ}.'mil be
king? The ifhnd could hardly have attained to
a twentieth part of itspiefent population, yet
by his own account, the invader found a retreat
prudent/, or perhaps reccflary. South Britain
afterwards fubjeiled, but this acqiiiHtion
v Tvas the t jfk of more than thirty vears. .Every
village was- bought With the bio >d of the le
gions. VVe may confide in the moderation o! a
Roman historian, when he is to defcrihe the dtf
aftersof his countrymen. In a single revolt,
seventy thopfand of the usurpers were extirpat
ed ; and fifty, or, as others relate, fcrenty thou
sand foldicrs periflted iti a Caledo
nian campaign. Do the mailers of modern Eu
rope underfland the art of war better than Seve
rns, a«d Agricola, and Julius Caesar } Is any
con bination of human power to be compared
with the talents mi resources of the Roman
empire ? If the r<aked Scots of the firll century
refilled and the conquerors of the
species, what ought we to fear from any antae:
enift of thirdly ? Ob fix months warning Bri
tain could muster ten or twelve hundred thou
sand militia.
* Cajar.fiyj that he had <with him five le
vion:, (nui I-. a thoUfatiid cavalry, ivhich 'iviih
the Ugßt troops, con hardly I. eve been less than
the number fpecified in the text. W lep-m, ai
that .time, contained five then/and infantry.
The slmer'tcan Merchant has again made
his appearance in the Aurora, under a new
lignature. It is ntedlefs to mentiori that
the tenor of his procuOition is, as usual, a
btifive and calummoQg : like all his other
lucubrations, they are a strange compound
of meconium and gall. By his apparent a
larm for the interest of France, it would
fecm as if he had become a Flour Merchant.
Mr, Tench Coxe, having heen difmifled
from the office of commilfianer of the re
venue, has become an American Merchant.
TO COR" t SPOXI/LNTS.
We hive received No If. ol Lucius —
j the o!yefV of the writer doc# i;oV appear to
J
fil! three o. four columns ol the paper with ambi
dexter obfervstioßs
liuCENius—To morrow.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED, DAYS.
Ship Iris, Gallis, Hamburgh via Newbern
Brig Eliza, Vaughan, Malaga 4.6
Schr. Amity, Hammond, New-York 6
Fortitude, Taylor, do. 5
Sloop Hope, Thomas, Richmond 8
Orange, Foster, Nova Scotia 14
Nancy, Bartlet, -North-Carolina 15
Salley, Colley, Nevvburyport 15
Maria, Burrows, New-York 8 I
Nancy, Starkey, do. 8
CLEARED.
Ship Star, Woodman, C. Nichol < Mole
Ariel, Tarris, Port-au-Prince
Brig Mary, York, do. do.
Flora, Morey, La Guira
Friend/hip, Arnold, St. Marcs
From capt. Vaughan, of the brig El/*a
—fa/ied the sth ult. in company with the
(hip Thomas Wilson, Jarvis, of and for
this port—left there the (hipßethiah,Jones,
of George-town, for sale, and the (hip
Two Sillers, Maley, of New-York, unable
to proceed to sea for want of a Role d'E
quipage—in consequence of late advices
from Paris, ait embargo was momently ex
peaed in the porj3 of Spain—the Straits
swarm with French Barges, and neutrals
are daily captured arid plundered, fcvctely
without dilcrimination ; many Danes and
Swedes had been recently brought iato ,
Malaga. A few days before capt. Vaughan
failed, 6 I'reach barge 3of 2 guns, oars, I
and 50 men tacit,- were taken and fciit into
Gibraltar, and a French Zebcc of 16 guns '
funk by al6 gun brig belonging to that t
port, and all han|?s penlhed—March 7,
tat. to, so, long. 60. 44, fpckc i?iC
r.er Indnftry, Hedge, of Alexandria, ouS
20 days from Newbern to Guadaloupc, fcn|
the mate on board in ordtr to ppQC»nc
supply of proviliona, which capts;n Uo!gs
r kindly offered at the rate of 2%hard doling
for a barrel of pork, and finding capt, V,
without money, vary Humanely bop;
without relieving his fellow countrymon.fr*
15th, lat. 3J, 19, long. 67, 52, spoke tha
brig Hannah, Dodge, out 7 days fiorr,
New-York to Ha^anna.— 17th. lat. 36,
long. 73, 30, spoke the schooner f llher,
Atwood, out 6 days from Georgia tq Boft
ton, and revived a supply.
The brig Pennsylvania, Tatem, of thf|
port, has arrived at Cadiz.
A r evvYorl, M«rch 24.
AMVVIiI;. • 1 vt
Ship Peggy, Cottle, Isle of May 3 jf
Brig Peggy and Sally, Johnson, Savan
nah J ?
Little George, Havannab
Essex, Tingley, Turks ifiand
Schr? , , Jaccjoemel
Sloop Dove, Coffin, Charleston
Brig. Susannah, fafe arrived from New*
1 London at Grenada.
Slopp Cornelia, Clark, is fafe arrlvp4 SI
Bermuda from this port.
Ship Citizen has arrived at the Havanna,
NEW'THEATR?r
Mrs. Olbmixqn's Night,
THIS EVENING, March 26,
Will be prefrnted (i>«~ver performer here, a QQ«
JliK) ?Y, callc* ,
¥ T e would he a Soldier.
CiiJ Talbot,. Mr. Warren
Sir Oliver }l.if ock, Harwoi»4
Capuin Crevidt, J-'enntll
jMinderiiic, foj
Ccii -t I'ierpoint, MarfhalJ
W lkins, Taylor
: Caleb, B rnard
Charlotte, M^rry
. ' arfy Oldftock, (for that right on!y M>« pMniixof)
Harriet, (for that night only} Mm. Mar/hall
r 'is. Wilkins, Mr# Fr ncis
1 Be"/, Mr*- Doa.-r
iTs Mil' earns
To which will be added (for the fir 1 time on tftn
flajre) t*ie cel-Vrated Mufcal R mance of
The ENCHANTRESS } •
Or, CTMON aad SYLVIA.
( Cymon, (tiy;t time, aud £Ol
Mr« M irO".a)J
Merlin, Mr. Marthall
Dorus, Mnrris
l.into, Harvvood
Dimofi, Warrell, jm.
Dorila , T Warn:ll
Shephar*'s, Messrs. Lavaney, Hiintpf,
Matthews, &c,
Sylvia, Mrs. Qldmixnq
Urganda, (the enchantress) Mrs. Warrell
Fatima, Mrs Francis
Fir ft Sheperdi fs, M.fs Mi J nurna
Second Shephsrdefs, Mis» L'E.'iringa
Dorcas (an o d noir 3n ,) Mr. Bernar i
She- herdefTcs, Mrs. Warren. Mrs. Stuart, Mff,
Hiioter, Mad Harwood, Miss Anndcrfon, flje,
I lckets to he had at the ufyal placet, of
Mrs. Oldmixon, No 193, Arch-f.rcet.
(E> On Wednesday, The dopted Child
with a Tragfdy (in two afts called) The
Prodigal , or, Fatal Extravagance—And
The merican in London—For the benefit of
Mr. Bernard. •
%* Mr. MorEton's night will be oi»
Friday next.
•M.b.cription il
MR FRANCIS rcf etf'uly info/mi rh" {fib?
fcriber* that rhe iubfeription being fin flied,
his l-Xl'Hi B ALL on lu Hay id
•pril, ar which he requeue the avor of she com
p.tny of thofc gentl-men whose names are op th#
of the firft and fecontl Sy! f riptior.
Ladies Ticket! to be had by applying to Mr. F.
No. 771 Vnrth Fi«hth rtreet.
Non-Subscription Ticket! at one d liar each,
inarch 6
This Day wjll be Landed,
At Morris's whati, just above tfrc i rawbridga,
[ om on board the I rir Eliza, capt. V u .
from Vlalapa— . '
Fre(h Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lemons in chel)sand half cheits
RaiOns of the Suu in kegs
Figs in do.
Soft fiieli'd Almonds in sacks
Grai es and 01ive» in jars
Bloom jnd Muscatel Raidos in boxes
Anchovies in
Jordan and B.tter Almonds in boxes
Old Mountain Wine in qr. casks
Brandy in butts, &c. &c.
for Sale by
PETER KUHN.
P. s.
1 he aboveßrig forfalfl
immediately applied lor'; (he
a remarkable fine faft failing
-- : S3SSBBE e nAving made her paffaga
to and fora Malaga in little rr.ore than 60 days
" 6 - lot"
si Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR SALE, ol djffcient fizts, at a very [area
nscotii t from the iterling past. If tfci, Glass i,
not dilpofed of before the sth at April, it will be
(hipped from this port.
For terms appiy to No. 89, South fhird-llreet.
march »6. § !tv
C 0 P'P E R,
4,000 lbs. of Sheathing Copper,
i;id a small affortm nt of OrongCopper, in sheets
and bottom', liiitable for stills, brewing anj other
• ink fr..m »-:o to aooo gailons, tojj< ther with an
.llortmi-nt 01 > opper w re, confining of Stills
rum 10 to v o gallons, Hitter's planj: and dy>;
Ketrlw, wafting do. ot copper and hraf»,
!vi rtlf, I'ea do- Stewpans, Saucepans, copper Ca.
in »oyc», copper Pumps and Binnacle Lamps
and a v.rieiy 0! other ar-ides— For S->lc by r '
JAMES M'CAULEY,
11 his Copper Warehouls, No. By, south Froijt
" rett march 6—"Jt
N. B. Op l. a second handSygur Fan an 4
Dye Ccpper that will contain about .1,00 gallons
wi l lie fold ch'->. '
A PERSON has had a fj,
heral education, and is mafter'of the French
and tnglilk languai(ei, would . gige at a tutor
i:i a j cntcel !amily where tl era (ho vd he me or
tr/o hoys, frovided it is not in this city. Ho
would hava no objection to travelling, am! is ca,
pable of undertaking the fuperintendance of a
arm. A nate dircited to Z. at this office will
b' t « ided to.
y. U. Wages is no o! jeil,—• entcel and friendly
treatment i. the oniy looked {or.
marih »6.To be Sold,
An elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat
twe story brick House and kitchenthereor, an ap
ple Orchard, &c (ituatc on the Irifli lane, in
the cowr.fhip of Moysmenfipg, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Pl.iladclphiaGazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance iiand unrivalled.
N. B. If tbe above place is not fold before the
loth inft. it will then be rented, for the Summer
season only. § march 5.
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
arid co the bufinef* of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good and no other needap
|>ly.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 , §
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, {landing in the name of the Subscri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July XI, 1797— the fame
having Jieen loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march j ,6w
TOLET,
j4nJ may be entered on Immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three (lories high, and in an excellent Hand for
Apply to
Thomas & Jafhua Ft/her,
march I. $ No. 5, Dock-rtreet^
Wanted to live in the Countty,
About five miles from this city, a fuber flea
day Man who imderflaruls gardening and the
management of a few acres of land, and would
not i>lye£l to attend a couple of horses. Such
a one msy meet with liberal wages by applying
at the office of tbie Gazette.
N. B. Nose seed apply but those of unex
ceptionable chiiraiSers.
March 13. dtr
Custom House,
Diflritt of Pennsylvania, March Gih y 1797*
HP HE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA, ]
L who may have any account or knowledge of (
the capture or detention of any fbip or veflel, ear- j
go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United States, residing within thisdiftrid, by or
under tlie authority of foreign nation*, f:nce the
firfl day of O&ober, 1792, are particularly requef- ]
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as foop as may ,
be convenient; fpccifyihg the name of the vessel,
the captain's name, t/ie number of tons, the efli
mr.ted value of the vessel, if condemned, the efti- {
mated value of her cargo, or ether property, whi
ther carried, and by, or under the authority of j
what nation captured, with such observations as
may be thought pecefiary upon the circunaflances
of each cafe, in order that statements thereof may
be tr nfmitted to the Secretaiy of theTreafury,
who is required to lay the fame before th? Senate
and House of Reprefcntatives of the United States.
march 7. »ot
WANTED',
A Gardener —a Single Mam.
None need apply, unlcf* he can bring good re
commendations.
Enquire at No. 30 Market-flreet.
march 17. *>2w
zpn D Q /I I )7
By WHARTON b' LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaicaßum, entitled ro
, l£l amj jd proof Brandy, J drawbask.
Madeit a Wine,
Juniper Berriis, See. &c.
Feb. 9. , eodtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT veil known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of 1
General John Gadwaladcr, firuate on Saffafras Ri
ver, in Kent county* Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and confiftof ahandfome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor undtr cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and 6f hritk), Corn house?, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole liftate being nearly
surrounded by water, k requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad ar.d Herring fifhery. It is
conveniently fitaated for both the Philadelphia and I
Baltimore market?, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a Ihort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Perch, and two large Apple Orchards on
the ptemiUs; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kind*. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole 1 will b« fold together, or divided into
frr*!ler farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpofad of. For further
particulars apply to Georok Hastings, on the
prcmifes, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jwn.
February 24. zaw6w
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT confifls of 920 acres, .lmoft all of which is
a fine rich Meadaw, (the residence of the late
Esrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafaick.
Ther* are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aercs—The dwelling house
is a very convenient oae and k a fniallexpence would
put it it) complete repair.
The orchard coniids of 150® fin«bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts olfaid
trait near 300 other Apfle Trees—as also a great
variety of ocher fruits.particularly Cherries of the
bed and s»o2 delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForellTrcos, that add to th.' beauty and conveni
ence cf the place Its fituatiou is ibcut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—-Tt
is wooded and watered,
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut
February a. toijtf
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets iathe Schuyik II Bridge Lottery, at Tern
CoUari, where check booksarj kept lor r#gifter
illg -,r.d examining in tljffe, the City of Waihing
ton, No. 11.and Pattirfoii Lotteries, and informa
tion wh«re tickets m"y be had ill mcftjof the Lotte
rics authcrifed by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The b*fmefs©f a Bpokhk, inbuyingand
fellirg all kinds of Pvblic Stock anri Securities,
difcoKSting Bilk and Nct-s of Hand, sale of
l ands, llcu.'es, &c.&c. will be duly attended to,
hy WM. BLACKBURN.
Novcn:biriJ. J
PROPOSALS,
BY THE
Injurance Company of North America.
For Insor\nce apainft Fire, on Dwtilling-
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United Stat-..
T. Common lufurancei, on hazards of the SrJl
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
halt per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifqoes a larger premium will be required, which
will vaiy according to circunsftances, fridom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some i«-
stances, where the property insured i-s not only in
itfclf extrahazardous, but rendered ftiil morefo
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buddings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be railed
according to circumstances.
Howies and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti
tions of which are wholly of stone or brick, well
conftrnilfed, so as to li t guarded as well as may be
against fires from within, and iree lrom extra ha
zardous buildings and occcupations in.their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o» an extra
hazardous kin*d, in calks, biles, or pack-agas, dc
pofitcd in such buildings, to an amount not .ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than thisfum.
is required to be insured in one tenemcat, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circumstances.
11. lnfurances will also be made on buildings ana
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to th# risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or clafies, so as to dcfcribe
each with tbe necessary accuracy. Each cafe mull
therefore be decidedupon accordingto the circum
stances attending it ; and these circumstances wili,
in general, appear from the description accompa
uy:ng the application.
Buddings partly conftru&ed of brick or flone,
are preferaliie to those wholly wooder. _ And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are fituited, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with refj>e£l tegood|,
theii'tendnncy, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, ether
to commence or to increase an accidental lire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden andhally removal, or to be fro
len in time of confuficn and hurry, are all cir
cumstances of weight ; and the premiums n.ufl be (
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following conditiont are to be under
ftoed by the parties.
ift. The Inftirance is not binding till the ftipu
latedjiremiura be paid ; but it shall be deemed ef
feclual from the time cf such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the poiicy be immediately
ftgned or not.
2d. lnfurances rcay be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
perfes than the payment of thu premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the sam«
as they were anderftood by the Insurers at the time
the former insurance was mads ; but the payment
of the premium is clTential to such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration o( the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed an the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal fri.ni the expiration
of the former Infuranr.e. The lubjeil of insur
ance may nevertheless be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d- If ary other insurance bemadeon the fame
property ; it must be made known at the time of
application, otherwif's the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trufl, or nn consignment
raay be insured as such in a fenarate policy; but
they are not to be considered as infuied stherwife.
5 th. This comjwny will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damagf occasioned by any for
eign invasion, or by any military or uf«rped force,
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing cf the
likekind kept in the building, or amongtt the pro
perty iul'ured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds »nd other Secu
rities, Title Desds, Money, Bank and other pro
miffery Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, -iledal-, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7th. No insurance will be made for a ftiorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe
ve.ll years. Persons choosing to insure for seven
years (hall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: Oce third of a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
tkrec year?.
Bth. I.olTet sustained by fire en property injured,
shall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without dedijet ion.
A defciiption of the property to be infurod will
be expefted with each application, to be made by
a master carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner cf the building 01 applicant for in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certily his knowledge of the
parties, and their credibility.
With refpeil. to Houses and other Buildings,
ift. The site and poGtkn ; delcribing the
street or road on or near which the building
stands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumitaoces relative to the extinguilhment of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are ellahliflied, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbourhood.
2d. The materials of which it is built, whe
' ther of brick, flone or wood, and what part of
I each, as well as to theoutfide walls as infideor
, partition walls, and their refpeftive height and
thickness ; the ltyle of the roof and of what
, materials ; how secured by battlements or par
; ty walls ; what kind of arcefs to the top of the
I house and to the chimnies ; whether any and
what eleflric rods ; the number a«d kind of
. fire places ; and the kind of deposit for afnes*
! 3d. Ihe dimensions of {he building and how
t divided, and tbe style in which it is finifhed so
: as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
mannerit is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
1 injury; the age and condition of the building,
- and how occepied, whether merely as a dwel
i ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
• pose , also an estimate of the value of the house
' or building independent of the ground.
4th. Ttie lituation with refpecft to other build
: ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
Dot, comprehending at leall one hundred feet
each way : what kind qf buildings are within
' j th»t diilance, how built, of what materials,and
- how f Occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or mamifadWy is car-
I ried on, and particularly whether there be any
' extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
sited ill the house, or within the distance afore
,faid, and of what kind.
Relpedling goods in Houfis, Warehouses, Ac.
1. A fene/al description of the building in
which they are kept will btexpeiled, limilar j n
all refpeds, as to the danger from {ire, with that
required for Insurance on the buildings them
selves.
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in cases or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole'
pieces or iri tin ul'ual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a" general
il'.imite of the value tf oich kind prspofed 10
be insured j but in the last particular mi.. "
ness of description is not expelled.
3. Articles of the following kinds are ccem
ed extra haxardous, thwugh in various decrees,
in whatever building thty may be placed, viz.
pitch, tar, turpentihe, rof'n, .wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened.
Glass, china ware or porcelain, efpecial.y un
pa. ked; Looking glaflVs, jewelery ; and all o
ther articles more than commonly inflammable,
or n ore than commonly liable to injury by fyd
den removal or by moifiuresj or particularly
obnoxious t«> theft on an alarm of fire.
Letters pest paid, directed to the Secretary of
the Board of Directors, will be duly attended
to. i« order for Infrrance accompanied by the
means of payiag the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be answered.
By orrkr of the Board,
EIBEN.EZER HAZARD,''Ser'rj.
Office of the Jnfurance Company b/*NortV >
America ; Philad. Feb. 1, 1798- 5
Feb. ia-
llouie and Lots, in Bordeniown.
BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
with the Lot on which ii is erefled, situat
ed abottt the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is forty
two fret in front, and in neat order. Tfce lot
contains one acre, ar dis one hundred feet,oll
the main street, and extends with the (atr.e
breadth to back flreet. Alio, a large Lot, eon
taining nearly four acres, i'eparated from the
fesrmer by back flreet. One third only of tha
purchase money will be rtquifed upon execut
ing a deed, ard for the remainder, such credit
w 11 be as the purchaser may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and ap ipdifputabie title given
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near
the prtmifes, who will shew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 43, Muiberry-ftreet.
December 2. 3awtf
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THF. fitizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Glass is now commMcrd at the Glass House iiT"
CQC-cu.
It is netdl-efs to fay any thing of the. excellent
quality of the J3ofi-n Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every rcf
pe& gteatly superior to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used 5 and
may be conttantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kupfcr, at theGlafi House,
Orders frc'm the distant States to be addressed to
.Mr. Samuel <S»rc, Court ftrset, jB often.
Two or three good Glafsmakers are want
ed at the above works; such as can produce rs
commcndktions for good behavior, maybe fureof
employ, by appl'cation to Mr. George L. Lindt, at
the works. Men without families w ill be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with themeth»d
of r. aking Crown ISVindow Glass, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
Bollon, January 16 2 —iaw6w
New-Tort, February, 179.8.
GEORGE FQRMAN,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix manths—entitled
PROOFS of aCONSPIRACY against
ail the Religions an i Governments of EU
ROPE, carried 011 in the secret meetings of Free
Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. C»l
---le&ed from good authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
Prtfejj'or of Natural Philosophy, and Secretary to the
Royal Soeiety qf Edinburgh.
Nam tua res agitur pariei cum proximus ardet.
THIS \vork will be put to prefsas soon as
400 fubferibers are obtained, and no money requi r
ed until the work is completed.—lt shall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of su
perior quality, which will coniprile about 400
pages neat oilavo, handsomely bound and lettered
—the price will be oae dollar and fifty cents.
.Thofewho procure rz fubferibers, and become
accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
*»* The above woik comes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Editiborough, a gentleman in high
eftimatioH ; n the lit -riry world—the facsts therein
recorded are well fut (Initiate, and the reasoning
and arguments thence deduced, while they djfeo
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse as well as to in
ftrudt. A fcciie of villainy is developed by the
author fufficient to appal the floutefl heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from fee ret focietius is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illuftratad, and the hazard of every
deviation (rem the straight path of religion and
of virtue, inconteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the christian by stubborn and incontro
vertable flit?.
tit Subscription! talen in by G. Formal!, A r o. 46,
William-fit eet, opposite the Pujl- Office, and by the rcfpec
tine boolfcellers in New-Tori and Philadelphia.
February aB.
AViv- Torky Janttarj 2 u 1798
PROPOSALS *
By Arondt V«an Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publifliing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Mmiller of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
Thefc scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in a
vols, oilivo, of 4go pages each.
They will be printed on Ene paper and a' mw
. type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume—one third of the Subscription moheytobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the v.-ork iscompleat.
To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made.
£s° Subscriptions are taken at the Reading-
Room, No. 149, Water street the Printing-
Office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
in New-Ycrk- Also, by William
Younjr, corner < f Sfcondand Chefnut street, and
the Editor of the Gazette »f the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtainAd, the work will he put to press, and
compleated with the utmost dispatch.
Fth. 20. eo J Jm
For
A good situation for a Country Seat,
. F , OR Ty acfes of land on the Old York Road,
within fight of Germantown and about five miles
from the City, the whole being under geed fence
and in excellent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
foNN Elliott Ckisson, at his office for the
tale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. '4,
High-lireet. J
ad mo. aitb. sawj-.v
treasury department,
MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the Ad of Cengrefs pafied oh the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
* mnety-feven, e.-titied " An A& laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
Aft patTed on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
" An Ait to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed.by the Ad enti
tl-d " n Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day of July ensuing, the ftveral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the Umted Statss. / 4"->> fi'-g
For every skin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, upon which fiiall be
written or printed any or either of the instruments or writingslollowing— to wit :
Dls Cls. | Mlt
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - _ - - - $
Ar.y Licence to practice,or Certificate of the admiftion,enrolment erregiftryof
inv Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney .Advocate or Prod or, in any Court of the
United States, " . " . * , 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for ope of the said Offices, frialUb far as relates to the payment of the
duty Srfirefiid, be a 'fimcknt avlmifliort in all. the Courts of the United
States, for each and (ffiy of the laid offices.
Any Grant or Letters-Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military Cervices) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant pr letters patent, (ex
cept for land* granted for military feryices) ... %
Any Chartcr-Party, Rottc mry, or Refpon,dentia Bond, - - ,
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or 0-
tlier teftainentary ir.flrun.-ent, or for any fiiare or part of a personal estate di
vided by force oi afly flatutc of diftri"buti«ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Chiidrcn of the perf'on deceafea.the amount whereof shall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... - jj
Wh.n thc.amount thereof stall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 50
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of t
Asy Policy of Jnfurance or mflrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, vessel or
goads insured from one diftri<S\ to another in the United States, 25
From the United States to any foreign port or place* when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hail not exceed five hundred dollars, -j 50
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundrefl dollars, - j
Ary Exemplificaricn, of whit nature soever, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court -to
funiifh for the use of the United States or some particular fttte, - j 0
Any Pond, bill Angle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, itade to or with the United States or any slate, or for their
use refpec!\iveiy, ....
If above twenty dollars and npt exceeding one hundred dollars, - I 0
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 2S
If above live hundreddollars and net exceeding one thousand dollars,
And if above cne thousand dollars, - ~ ,
ii'any t-oiMjs or notes shall be payable at or within sixty days,
■ _£«cti hoodAjar.iic.tes (hall ih-- d»ty
aU},*»t*id—viz. - - ; t ....
If iwerjty dollars and nat exceeding one hundred dolla-rs,
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, j*
If above fivs hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dpllars, 2C
If above one thousand dollars, - - - -
Any Notes ifl'ued by the banks now established, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the United States, other than the notos of such of the said Banks
rs shall agree to an 4Prtual cgmpofitipn, of one centum on the annual di-.
vidends made by fucbUapks. to their Stockholders refpeilively, according to
the folbwing scale. .....
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - I
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, j0
C n all .iotes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... j
On all nates above five hundred dollars, - %
Any Protefi or otfier
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an inralid to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted hy t)ie United States as bounty for services
performed in the latp war, - - - 25
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - - j
For fiv,£ hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, a
Fprrpore than two thousand dolUrs, - - - • 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If froip °ne dhflritS to another d'HriiSt of the United States, not being in tbe
fame State, - ro
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - 25
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effefls, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxej, goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) jo
Any Ccrtifi,cate o/_a Share in any Insurance Company, of afliare' in tU« Bank
the United States, or of afiyState or other Bank,
Ii above twenty dollars and r.pt exceeding one hundred dollars, - jo
If above one hundred dollars, - 2 j
If under twenty dollai s, at the rate of ten tents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforefaid will be collefted and received by the Supcrvifors, Infpeclors aud other OfHceri
of Infpeftion, in the several Diftriib, Surveys and Divisions ef the United states, and by such other
persons as shall from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diflrids for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervifmrs of the several Diflriils will, prior to the firft day of July enfiiing, and as soon is
may be practicable, mark or ilamp, without fee or reward, ffny quantities, or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with tny of the rates of duties before enumerited, on payment of the said duties; Or
stamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prefcribcd by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infptiter, Officer of liifpedien,
or other paifon appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Didriils.
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year tbovementiwed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands agaiuft
of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpoal, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attelled ; and tholi: who are indebted
to the fame, are desired lo make immediate
paymeni, to
C'£o. DOBS ON, }
No. aj, So. Third-flreet. $ Admint J^ r
January 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Meflrs. Dob-
son, Campbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Phi!adelphia t
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting ©r Bilious
Fevers.
T9 'which is annexed, '
AN ABSTRACT of the op nions and pra&ice of
different authors : and an PPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa&s and refle&iens relative to
the Synoclus iSeroides, or Yellow Fever, which
has occafijried so much diftiefr and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United Sfatcs of America.
by WILLIAM OURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of I'hyficians,
and Member 6f the American Philosophical So
ciety- Feb. l—*3m§
For sale or to be let on ground
\ rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth street-, fronting the State-
Hcufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet fror.t
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth fireet ; there are at
prtfent two fmalltwo story brick houses, and a '
number of small tenements thereon.
r . Also, far Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient (lores, wharf, &c. fnuateon
Water street, between Mulberry an-J Saflafras
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-)oar feet, and containing that breadth east- .
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
fourh thirteen feet fix inches. These houses \
have the convenience of a publx alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour faiflor, or pth'ers
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further information apply >
to the printer,
■J U 'V 3 1, m&vtf
Salisbury Estate.
rHE Subscriber, proposing to contra# his busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a corppJete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair oi stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfc& repair, as are all the Water Works conne£l
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnace#
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
-for ttris Stalf.—Tlicrc art «bon- tvro thouVind acres
of Land, oneJjalfof which is under wood, theothci
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfatiured there,
fully proyes the excellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
ro any ir» the world ; for not one of sixty-nine gsns
lately made, although some of the 94 were bored
into 32 pounders, have tailed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of •
manufa&ure, and a place ot arms lying in the state
of Conne&icut, and only 30 miles from several land ■
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water iffiiing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ulefuitpurpofes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the flock and utenfi'S, and have pofieflion
on or before the fjrft of Jjine next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into ftJa(t im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
the prem-ifes. or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON*
Dee. i. 3* wlf
A 0 T 1 C~ET
A Matwfaftory of yellow and delft ivate,
Such as never was in this Country before, ha* cen
been lately ere&ed at Tivoli, Red Hopk
'onthe East Bank of Hudson's River, state of NewC
York, where any article of vatious forts and *P e *
may be executed, as well as eartbern stoves upC" *
new cpnflruftion, that saves three fourths Ic .
coinraor.ly used in calf iron stoves or open *
they are besides very wholesome and orname ta ,
J. MOUCHET
Wanted a fkillful hand to atiend to the bikin *?
glazing part of the (aid ware. Generous appo
ment j will be given. Apply ajabave, or to
DAVIT) brooks, Esq.
;,'o. 71 South s th Street.
Feb. £l _
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or
the centre of the dty—for which a gen
rent will be given; to be taken for a T" r ; °
more for a longer teraa. Inquirecf the r*n •
Oct. J?.