Wnm States; AND JF Philadelphia Daily Advertiser'.
Number 1778. J
C 0 N G R ESS.
IUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 10.
Mr. Matthws prefentedanaddrefs from 1
Elkton, in Maryland, approbatory ©t the mea-
lures of the Executive with respect to oyrlate *
negociations with France, and expreflive of
determinations to support the government. —
Referred as wfual.
. The House, on motion, again resolved it-
ielf into a committee of the whole on the bill
-authoriling the President to raise a prcvifional !
army, an'd the coufideration of the motion for
tfriking out the firft fe&ion being resumed, *
Mr. W. C. Claiborne rose, and said it !
*was with reluctance that he had at any time
«refpai?ea upon the time of the House; but, 1
on a question so important as the prcfent, he
was unwilling to give a lilent vote. He own- 1
ed himfelf diftatisfied with the principles of ,
the bill upon the table, and in favour of the |
.motion to strike out the firitfe&ion. He wi(h
ed it not for a moment to be fitppofed that he '
\Vus led to this opinion from local considerati
ons ; on lubje<. c ts of national importa»ce, no
thing ftuHiid ever influence his vore but the
common good of the Union. The security
which was ascribed to the gentleman from
Pennsylvania, on the Monongaheki, could not
be ascribed to him. Herefided in an exposed
part of the Wefterncountry, amongst a people
whoie latiity does not depend upon their
numbers or situation, but upon their deter
mination to refilt attack, come from whence
it may; and in the event of a war with France
the State of Tennelfee will be as apt to feel
the horibrsofitas the States of Georgia or S.
Carolina. But when he came to realon with
the gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr. Har- i
er) on the best meansof defence, they dilfer
ed on the thre/liold of the difcufliori. That :
gentleman thinks a Handing force is neceflary; I
he, o&i the contrary, was persuaded that if the* j
implements of war were dispersed amongst the i
citizens, they would be equal to their own
4efeiiC€, at least with the aiiiftance of the ci
tizens of the adjoining States.
The gentleman from South-Carolina allows
that the permanent defence of the nation lies
in the militia; but he conceives, that in or- j
der to bring forward all the force of the mili- j
tia, it is necellary that a regular force should j
act along with them. Here they differed in
opinion. He himfelf was inclined to believe
that militia and regular soldiers seldom agreed
together—that they view each other with |
contempt, and that they act best apart, and j
he placed the greater reliance upon militia.— ;
He knew that it was a popular opinion that |
troops long disciplined to bloody warfare, j
were a better security for a country than mili- j
tia; but with great deference to military cha- i
raCters, who were far better acquainted with |
the subject than he could pollibly be, hecon
ceived this opinion to be founded on error, !
and foftered by prejudice, though palmed !
upon the world for truth. In countries dif
ferently lituated from ours, this might be the
cafe. When a war is carried on between
Kings, by means of Slaves \vho support their
authority in time of peace, it is necellary that
the troops on both (ides should be equally ve
teran and well disciplined, because they want
that amor patrice which animates a free citizen
in the defence of'his country and h s liberty;
b.ut when an army of these disciplined troops,
who fight only far pay, are oppofed<by a body
of citizens who contend for every thing dear
to man, victory never fails to crown thecaufe
of freemen.
By ivbom, said Mr. C. was the army of
Hanqib.al driven out of Italy, but by the Ro
man militia. To whom did Greece owe her
fatety, when attacked by Xerxes, but to-her
militia. Pafiing from ancient to modern times,
to whom did Holland and Switzerland owe
the preservation of their liberty for so many
centuries, surrounded as they were by despo
tic powers, and opposed by reguiardifciplin
ed troops but to the bravery of their militia.
put we are told, laid Mfc. C. by the gen
tleman from Maflachufetts, that the veteran
Generals of France cannot be made to believe
♦hart our militia are able to stand before their
artnves. He believed those generals would
riot have a doubt on the subject. They would
remember the prodigies of valour which their
own militia performed. They will remem
ber that the mi'itia, of France laved that coun
try from the fate ot Poland. That that mili- ,
tia had fought her battles, and laid the firft
corner stone to that monument of military
lame, which Buonaparte and his army have
lince completed.
But if all idea should prevail ift France, that
the militia of America is not equal in battle
to those of the molt tried nations in Europfc,
let thein call to remembrance the revolution
ary war of this country, and they will imme
diately be convinced to the contrary. He by
no means wiftied to detract from the merits of
our late small army; they fought well for their
country, and they have been rccompenfed
principally by the liberty which their brave
ry afliftcd to obtain. He could not speak of
that body of men without respect, and when
he' saw a member of it his heart palpitated
with gratitude for? hisJervices, but he believ
ed notwithstanding, that it was principally
owing to the militia that we were enabled to
pluck from the British crown ilie brightest
gem which everornamented it, in eftaDlilhing
the independence of this country ; and he
believed the fame militia was itill able and
willing to defend us against an invasion from
France, or from any other country.
Mr. C. said, he felt for our present critical
situation as much as any man upon that floor;
but he did not apprehend the danger of an in
vasion to be so great as the gentlemen from
S. Carolina and Massachusetts seemed to think
it. He must own he felt 110 dread on thisac
count. If France (till thirfu forconqueft and
military prowess, or if her armies still fight for
rapine and plunder, as gentlemen are conti
nually faying they do, the old government
of Europe afford much stronger temptations
than infant America can otter to them. Ws
have nothing, said he, to court their avarice
Our- bldlings consist of a good government,
liberty, a good climate, and a fertile foil'—
Contented with these bleflings, he was per
iuaded his countrymen envied not the polfef
fions ot other nations; and however we may
fympatbize,with the diftrelfes of Europe, it
ought to be our wilh, as it is undoubtedly our
latere ft, to preserve peace with all the hu
man family. He trusted that when the pre
sent European war fbajl cease, our rights will
again be refpefted ; but if France, in the pa
roxysm ot her phrenzy, fliall attempt to in
vade America, he believed the palling of this
PHILADE LP HI A: WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAT 23, 1798.
law for a provisional army would be of no (er- t
vice. Suppose the law were immediately r
palled, and the President were immediately
to fend out recruiting officers, what kind of c
men would make up your battalions ? The j<
danger is too remote to induce men who have 1
an interest in the country to leave theirplough ji
, and turn soldiers ; and if this army was now ji
p embodied, it would conlift of the refufe ot a
society—os men who might wear the garb of v
soldiers, but poflefs few, perhaps none of their i f
virtues. j ii
I There was a ground of objection to this bill 1
I upon which it was his intention to dwell but a
r little. He meant as to the unconftitutionality f
of the firft clause j for, after the gentleman v
I from Pennsylvania and the gentleman from , e
, Virginia had spoken on that point, it was not e
in his power to fay any thing new upon it. c
I But he viewed the trust placed in Congress to 5
~ raise armies as an important trust, and to de- r
J-! legate it to the President would, in his opi- t
nion, be to attach a refponiibility to him t
which was meant tp be placed in Congress t
„ only. But the committee were told by the r
~ gentleman from MaflTachufetts (Mr. Otis) u
that this was an improper time to mention
I constitutional scruples ; that this was a time t
for acting. He was.of opinion, however, that ]
the Cortflitution, that palladium ofonrrights, <
t never could be too sacredly guarded, and this <
I of all others is the proper time to take care it t
e is not invaded. In times of tranquility, Con-! t
r grefs do not feel disposed to fur render their ;
authority; but whep danger approaches, and )
e alarm is every where gone abroad, then it is • <
e that Congrels may be moil likely to be pre- <
I vailed with to give up powers to the Exec it- ]
tive, from an idea of promoting the public
'good (but which may prove its greatell mif
fortune) which, at other times, they would
_• hold with the greatell tenacioufnefs. He need
lt i not remind the committee, that the greatest
j evils had arisen from fuffering the Executive
j power in governments to polfefs too much
e j power. We need only to look at the nations
n ! of Europe to fee that the loading of one Exe
cutive with power, has frequently enabled
his fucceflbr, at some future day to enslave
s the people.
, s The gentleman from Massachusetts and the
; gentleman from S. Carolina, have each in
_ ; their turn, laboured to (hew the neceflity ot
n ' advantages to be derived from the employ
e merit of regular troops. Their eloquence, he
h i the fafetyof the people did honour to their
_ ! this army ? No ; one of thein tells the corn
et | mittee that Victor Hughes, with his black
* ; troops, may go against Savannah or Charlef
f' I ton; the other, that when peace is made
L _ j in Europe, France may tranfpoFt an army t©
h j America. But if these events were to take
: place, would this Provisional Army give fafe-
I ty to the c«untry ? No ; it must be the Mili-
j tia which must avert the danger, and eventn
r ally be the security of the country.
Ie So far as relates to himfelf, he had foftered
n in early life an impreflion untavourable to the
i r employment of (landing troops, from having
n seen that when they were once introduced,
were scarcely ever laid aside, and that
they eonllantly proved the bane of liberty ;
these imprellionshad grown up with him,and
]. he still retained them, and they were height
s' ened by the recent experience which he had
iy ' had of the mifchevious effects of futh troops
ir in the State which he had the honour to repre
j*e sent; he had seen that they might be made
the organs of opprelfion, and be the means of
0 f introducing amongfta happy, peaceable peo
pie, much disorder and injury. Here he would
£r flop. He wifhedjto draw a veil over the inju
gr rieswhich had.beendone to the oeopleoT Ten
,s neflee by means offtanding troops ; hecaufe, no
sooner were these wrongs known to the Gene
iy ral Government, than every department of
it (hewed a willingness to redress them. But
the occurrence notwithstanding strengthened
a his former impreflions against a (landing army*
n _* Mr. C. concluded, by faying he would not
in speak ©ft heex pence of thisarmy, orofthediffi
ve culty which would attend the collecting of the
; j r money, because he did not wilh to trespass
Id longer uponthe patience of thecommittee. He
did not flatter himfelf that any thing which he
,j r had said, or could fay, would change thefen
n_ timents of one member of the committee ;
n _ but he trusted all would believe he ("poke from
the sincerity of his heart, every sentiment of
r ll which was deeply interested in the prosperity,
ry liberty, happiness, and independence of Uni
ve ted America.
Mr. Brooks had no doubt the gentleman
iat from Tenneflee had delivered to the commit
tjc tee the genuine sentiments of his heart ; but
e notwithltanding that he could not bring hirn
n' felf to join in fentinaent with him. '1 hat gen
e_ tleman had laid that Militia are better troops
b v than a Standing Array. This was the firft time
G ' t - he had ever heard' the sentiment advanced.
e j r Whatever objection there may be to a Stand
ed ' n £ Army, he thought discipline was every
, e _ thing. He did not think that the allusion
which he had made to the troops of another
cn country, who were willing soldiers, or to our ,
e( | owp Revolution, would authorise the opini
v_ on. He would call the attention of the gen
-IIY tleman to our revolution. He did not mean
to depreciate the Militia ; but it was well
known they could not be kept in the field'for
ng any length of time together. He remembered
j-j e aninftance in 1776, at Am boy, where a com-
pany of Militia were drafted for a particular
, m time, and whenit expired, they determined at
all events to return homeland a)l that could
be said to them could not induce them to
* r . itay. Men who leave families behind them
, n ' fwil not continue contentsdly beyond the tima
)m orl which they are called* If the M.iiitia alone
Mere to be resorted to, a much greater nuin
lC_ ber of men would be in the service,
nc j and the expence of retaining them would be
for & re ater, according to their numbers, than if
ti- regular troops were employed.
Nt The gentlemaai last up, and others, had said
mb there is no danger of an invasion. Mr. B. asked
Vs what all the preparations are making for on
ce the French coast ?
ir Mr. Cijaiborne explained what he had
[ ' said about danger.
or Jfthere ftiould be n© danger, Mr. B. faidi
no army would be railed, for the uncertainty
la y whether we ftiould be invaded, or not, wasthe
' j", reason why the power of determining the time
} r ot raising the army was placed in the Prsfi
u_ dent. And notwithstanding gentlemen conti
re nually call this a Standing Army, if they look
r ;U ,11 the bill they will find that the President will
have the power of dilbanding it whenever it
n _ (hall ceale to be Hecellary. Besides these ar
(S gtimec«>di(i not go against the bill, but against
By John Fenno, N g 119 Chefnut Street.
the detail of it, which might undergo amend- d
ment and modification. a
Gentlemen have spoken on the conftituti- c
onality of this bill, but he thought these ob- tl
iections had been comphtely anlwered, and n
former laws which had been palled aftet a si- ai
milar manner, proved that heretofore no ob- a
jection was made to this mode of proceeding, c
and until gentlemen cduld lljevv thedillrrence o
which exists betwee.: thole laws and the pre r ft
; sent, there was no neceflity for spending time ir
jin answering these objections, lie could not v\
fee any objects on to the bill on ground, d
as it was calculated solely for the purpose of h
saving expence. With refpeit to any danger a
whichcould arise from the mifttfe ef this pow- o
er, it was a mere chimera. He believed v
enough had already bean said on this qhefti- F
on, and he hoped the question would be taken, ti
? Mr. Gallatin said, he would not take ii
{ much of the time of the committee in relation d
Ito whatmightbe called the conftitutional<sue£- ©
lion under conlideration ; yet Ke found* from m
the manner in which his argufhents had been si
noticed, it would be neceflary to make a saw b
additional obfervatipns 011 this subject. v
He uadrrftood that the object of a cohfti- 0
tution was to secure a proper distribution of p
power amongst the different branches of a 1
Government. It was a security never poffeflT- t
ed by any country before the constitutions of d
the United States were formed. In Great Bri- c
! tain whatever diltributiop of powers may exist, r
an a<ft of parliameiit may transfer any power >c
from one department to another. The only 1
• check then upon the life of that pow- 1
eris public opinion. But in this country, the j
principle of.the constitution is, that no depart- [
ment of f-overnment can exercise that power <
which has been given to another department- 1
Gentlemen, however, seem to suppose the
conftitution may remain inviolate, so tang as ]
there is no forcible aflurnption of power by any
branch of Government from the other, »*id ;
1 that a transfer or free gift of such power <
; would nor be a violation ot the constitution. ;
He considered the effect to be pTccifety the
I fame which ever way it was done. The ohjc£t
i of the constitution was to aflign forever j
tain fpecific legislative powers to Congref® ; «
: and ceirtain other powers to the Executive,
1 and whenever one department shall exercise :
E the powers of the other, in whatever way it j
shall be done, the constitution will be broken,
aad the security intended by it will ro longer
: exist.
r If these remarks are applied to the cafe un
* der consideration, it would be found that one
f of the most important powers that could be
■ vcfted in Congress, viz. the power of raising
: an army, is, by this bill, proposed to be tranf
- ferred from Congress to the President. This
! he considered as a dangerous principle, and if
) ©nee admitted, it would be in the power of
: Congress to destroy the Constitution. Yet
- thecommittee are told there are precedents
- to authorize this procedure. He knew the
- line, which separates executive from legilla
tive duty, is jfometimes very indiftin£t ; and
1 in some cases of not very great importance,
s where thediftinftion might not be very ftrik
* ing, ©r had not perhaps been attended to,
, powers which, striCtly speaking, were Ugifia
t tive, may have beeii lmjiroperly given to the
; Executive ; but is an instance of this kind to
i be brought as a/ precedent for passing a bill
- of fp important a nature as is the present ?
\ Because power has been given to the President
s to build ten gatleys, if he shall think them
- neceflary, and to spend 80,©00 dollars ; should
e it now be inferred that there would be no
f impropriety in giving him the power to judge
- of the neceflity of raising an army of 10,000
d men, which are to colt 'the United States at
- least tour millions of dollars a year ? If that
- conclusion was drawn, lie would ask whether
d Congress might not also transfer any of her
- other important powers vcfted in them—such
if a3 the power of laying and collecting taxes,
it and that of declaring war ? And if so, it was
d admitted that Congress have the power ot
'. destroying the Constitution ; for limitation
)t clauses to laws were frequently opposed as ini-
I- proper ; and it a single Congress palfed with
e out any limitation clause an aclfinular to this,
fs or giving for ever to the Executive,, the power
e of judging of the neceflity of raising an army,
e or otlaying a or of declaring war, orot
1- enacting law,s, he a Iked whether the legiflativ.e
; power of Congress would iK)t be annihilated ?
ti And yet this is the objection whicl\ some gen
)f tLciile.it call it ridiculous to entertain, whilst
r, others charge the supporters of it with a want
i- of candour and sincerity.
After stating this, Mr. G. said, he believed
n he need not anlwer the obje6tions of the gen
:- tleman from Connecticut (Mr. Dana) who
it seemed to think that he (Mr. G.) had relied ,
1- upon a mere verbal difference in the wording
1- of some of the clauses in the Constitution. —
)S He would now fee that he did not raise his
ie objections on so flight a ground, but that they
i. arose from the general principles and spirit of
1- the conftituion itfelf. Mr. G. said, he might
*y be told that no danger would arise from this
»n transfer of power, as it was not to be fuppof
?r ed the President would abuse it, and that he
ir ought not to suppose the cafe of future
i- lature's palling such improper aCts as he had
mentioned, or at any rate transferring other
111 powers to the Executive, because this Con
ill grels was going to transfer the fpecific dif
or cretionary power contemplated in the feftian
:d under conlideration. But ought they to put
1- more trust in future legislatures than in them
ar selves ? And if the gallies were brought as a
at precedent to induce Congress to pass thia bill,
Id would not this bill be brought as a precedent
to to induce future legislatures to make still fiir
m ther a»d. more dangerous transfers of power ?
tia Were not evident symptoms of that disposition
ne dilcernable in this very difcuflion ? A gen
ii- tleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Otis) had
e, pofLtively asserted that if the President was to
ae give information to Congress that in his opi
if nion, there was imminent danger of aninva
iion, Congress without examining the grounds
id of that opinion, must neceflfarily a<st in confor
sd mity to it. The fame gentleman had said,
>n that if the validity of the objections urged
against this bill were admitted, it would de
id clare all fo.nper laws. enaCied upon the fame
principle null, and of coiufe the whole of our
d> present army would be diflblved. This could
Lty not be the cafe ; for if there was any thing un
he constitutional in the law fixing the military
ne establishment, it was the power which was
si- given to the President to forbear raising, or to
;i- djfeharge the men, when he should think them
ak unnecelfary, which power had never been
ill executed, and therefore could in nowifeaf
it feet the mi!itaryeflablifhmcnt now existing.
r- But the commitiee are told that the pre
ilt sent dangerous situation of our country ren-
ders it neceflary to pass a law of thiskind. It C
appeared to him that when gentlemen were r<
Called Upon to mew where this danger exist a, U
they wet*e at a loss how to answer. They had h
not shewn where it is ; almost all concurred in
an opinion that there would be no invasion by n
an army this season. After a peace was con- u
eluded in Europe, some gentlemen were of it
opinion there might be danger but not at pre- it
sent. The gentleman from 5. Carolina had n
indeed pointed out a part of the* country w
where he fiippofes there is at present some
danger, and it was the only quarter in which ft
he himfelf expected any annoyance at present, ii
and uporl which he had already mada some ji
observations. That gentleman had, howe- tl
ver, gone on to detail the manner in which the a
French may laud, and the points most likely c
to be attacked. Jf that gentleman be sincere f;
in his fears, and really thinks that imminent ii
danger exists, he ought to vfote for the railing 11
of the army immediately, otherwise the force v
which he wished to raise, would be too late v
for the quarter in which this danger is said to \
be so imminent. But the gentleman in the t
whole coivrfe of his observations, has spoken t
of this seCtion as giving to the President a t
power, whenever danger shall appear of cat- t
ling' these men out or embodying them, as if g
the proper power of railing an army was fud- £
deftly to embody men togetherin an emergen- e
cy ; whereas it must be clear to him that these 1
men must firft be enlisted and colle»sted, whilst a
on the contrary the militia alone could be cal- t
led out or embodied immediately. Indeed a a
militia force might be called out and have re- 1
peljed a predatory attack, before 500 of this J
provisional army could be raised. He conceiv- \
ed only two things were wanting to make c
militia more effective than at present, which 1
were provided by the additional iettions re- 1
ported to this bill by the seleCt committee, ;
which were to furnifh them with arms, and ]
also the equipments for cavalry in the south- !
ern states. He hoped those seCtions would be
agreedto, and then he thought the gentlenHan
from South-Carolina (Mr. Harper) might
be perfectly easy on account of the fafety of
I the southern states. If we were to be engag
| ed in war, not only by sea but by land, and
an invading army was to Jand under an idea
: of subjugating the country, or of bringing us
j to a dishonorable peace, he would then agree
1 that a (landingarmy would be neceflary to aid
the militia; but at present he did not think
j there would beany reafo.iable expectation of
such an event.
Mr. G. said he hai been lold that he might
consider himfelf fafe on his farm on the MOll
- and that the people ot the South
ward would not be very thankful for the op
position he made to this force for their de
fence. But was it proper to introduce cir
cumstances of this kind into debate ? He did
not believe that by any vote which he had e
ver given on that floor, that he had fhewna
ny unjuftifiable attachment to his constituents
to the injury of other parts of the Union. He
should undoubtedly, on all occasions, support
their interests, so far as he understood them,
whenever it could be done confidently with
the good of the whole, but never in opposition
to that good.
Mr. G. supposed that if the danger was ve
ry great on the Southern coast, more would
have been heard of it than by the private let
ter of the gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr.
Harper.) He himfelf did not believe there
was any great danger to be apprehended at
present from invasion. But the arguments
i of gentlemen went to shew that the danger is
: now imminent, and consequently that the ar
-1 my ought now to be raised ; and yet, in fie ad 1
of aCtmg cohftftently with their own argu
ments, they support a bill by which an army
• is to be railefl only in cafe of a change of cir
* cumftances. When gentlemen wilh ro eftab
-1 lifh the belief of a probability ot an immedi
, ate invasion, they refer to the conventions
? which palled in Paris betwixt our Mini Iters
E and X, Y and %. If they believe that they
1 lee, and the President believes that he fees in
that coij,veiiationathreatenedinvafion, liefup-
the army would be immediately railed.
, indeed, from what he daily heard and saw,
[• he was of opinion that the President believed
, imminent danger now to exist. But the fcc
f rion under consideration went, taking the ar
-1 guments of the gentleman to be well ground
> ed, to throw the refponiibility of a measures
. which in their opinion was new necessary,
t from themfelveson the President.
t But the committee had been told by the
gentleman from N'e'w -York (Mr. Brookes)
1 that the militia are more expeniive than regU
- Tar troops. Mr. G. believed that whilst they
> were in levice they were moreexpenfive, on
i account of their marching to and from home;
; but the great difference betwixt the two for
- ces was, the militia were only called into ac
s tual service and paid when actual danger ex
y ilts, but an army receives pay all the time it
f is in being. Of course an army, if considered
t a cheaper weapon of defence, Ought only to
s be raised in time of actual danger, and dif
- charged when it ceases to exist.
e Shall 1, said Mr. G. be tokl it is improper
- to speak of expence in a business ot this kind ;
d He said he knew well enough, that in cafe of
r actual war, or invasion, it would be ridiculous
- to talk of the expence of defence. And if j
the committee now believe that we are in4m
n minent danger, they ought immediately to
it raise an army ; but as they suppose the dan- 1
- ger does not' at present exist, the expence was
a a proper subjeCt of difcuflion. He would not
, however, on the subjeCt of this bill, have said
it any thing about it, had it not been aliened
- that no expencecould be incurred on account
? of this law. He wiflied to know why gentle
n men had so earnestly infilled upon a permanent
1- land-tax, in order to insure a permanent loan?
d That loan and that tax were wanted for the
o sole purpose of supporting this army, as all
- the expences at present incurred are provided
- for by the present revenue and one year's
Is land-tax. Without this army there would be
- no neceflity to a permanent land tax. Let not
I, gentlemen amuse themselves with the idea,
d that at the time tney are giving the Pre
:- fident a power to raise an army 10,000
e men it will be attended with no expence.
ir If they give the authority, they mull
d reckon upon paying the men, and this can oh
-- ly be done by a.permanent land-tax. lleliad
y therefore voted against making the land-tax
is permanent, because he was against raising t,his
;o army, and he could not conceive how gentle
u men who had agreed with him on that quef
n tion could confidently be in favour of this.
F- If they were in favour of the army, they
ought, in order to provide the means, to have
voted for thp permanent land-tax.—As to thje
1- made by the gentleman from S.
[_VGLUME XIII.
Carolina betwixt the troops proposed to be
raised by this bill, and a (landing army, he
looked upon it as frivolous; the
ing army meant a regular force as diftinguifh
e»i trom the militia; you may call it by that
name, or limply an army, which are the words
used by the Constitution ; it w ill not change
its substance—and in Great Britain, whore
its exigence, on account of the annual milfi*
ny bill, was a!ways limited to one year, ic
was always called a Handing army.
He would add one rotnark with refpedt to
(landing armies. Military men on this floor*
in favour of an eflabiilhment of this kind,
judge of a regular army from what they (aw ot*
the Revolution army—but, such an army, he
apprehended, v&ouldnot again be seen in this
country, except in cafe of invasion, when the
fame spirit would animate our citizens which
inspired them heretofore ; but a (tending ar-»
my, in time of peace would always be found
very different from the patriotic army with
which those gentlemen were acquainted.—■
With refpeit to militia, he believed nioft of
those gentlemen were better acquainted with
their merits than lie could pretend to be, yet
they have not only denied that the militia of
the United States are capable offarving a*
gainst a regular army, for any length of time*
but also of repellingan invasion. lie believ
ed with his friend from Tennellee, that very
many instances in our revolutionary war {'poke
a contrary language. If he recolTeCled right,
the enemy was kept in Bolton for more thau
a year, and at lad; driven from thence by the
militia ; and he believed the State of New-
Jersey was iccovered in 1777 by the militia,
when hardly the appearance of a regulararmy
exited. Advancing to a nother period of the
war, which perhaps decided it, lie asked
whether the landing army would have been
able to ltop the course of General Burgoyne,
had it not been tor the militia, which poured
from all quarters, checked his progref's, and
so eminently contributed to his capture He
knew great services were performed by regu
lar troops, and that in cafe of actual war they
were necelfary; but he believed the militia
were equal to the repelling of any invalion
which Could, under present circumltances, be
contemplated.
Mr. Pinckney said, he did not intend to
have troubled the committee with any obser
vations of his on the- present question ; be
canfe he thought all the arguments which had
been adduced against this bill had been fully
answered; but as they were again repeated,
he must be permitted to fay a-few word* in
reply.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania had said,
with great truth, that it was the object of
those who formed the Constitution, that the
powers of government should be distributed
amongst the different departments, and that
they ought not to be afligned or relinquilhed.
All mull be agreed as to that point. The on
ly question is as to its application in the pre
sent cafe, and whether the power proposed to
be granted by this bill gave away from Con
gress th 6 power of railing an army, to any o
ther department of government. If this pow
er was generally Transferred to the President*
he might at all times raise an army, without
the consent of Congress; but it would not be
said that this watvld be the cafe, if this bill
should pass. It is not doubted that the Le*
giflature may order an army to be raised by
. the President, in cafe of a declaration of war,
or of aninvalioiv; but gentlemen fay the con
tingency ought not to depend upon the opin
ion of the Preiident. But, Mr. P. said, this
must either be done, or you mult burden your
constituents unneceffatily, by railing the ar
my before it is wanted. It had been said that
it was not fair to argue from former violati
ons of right. This, he allowed, was a fair
objection as it refpedts real violations of right,
but where a-thing has frequently been done
1 in one way, and no objections, raised to that
course, it. was rcafonable to suppose that
course was not unconltitutional.
1 Mr. P. was surprised to hear gentlemen
attempt adiftinttion between the cale of im
mediately railing an army, and ordering it to
, be-raifed;in cafe ot certain contingencies. If
he could discover any difference, he should
be for immediately voting tins army; but not
feeing this, he thought it unreasonable that
he should either burden the country with an
i unnecelfary expence, or leave it in a great
, degree defencelefs. He believed the power
proposed to be given to amount to no moie
: than this. It said to the President of theUni
-1 ted States, 'f if war should be declared againft
this country, if we Ihould be inv aded, or if
' you should have certain information that force
1 is preparing to make such an invasion, you
; (hall proceed to raise this army." He tho't,
• therefore, every confiitutional objettjonmult
■ fall to the ground.
But an objection was made to this clause
t because it gave power to the President for an
1 unlimited time. He ihould have noobjedti
:> on to limit the period within which this pow*
- er should be exercifcd. He should have no
objection to limit it till the next meeting of
r ■ Congress.
; It was said, that if Congress had the pow
t er to velt the power of raifmg an army in the
s President, they might also transfer the power
f of raising a tax in hiifi. He believed this
- might be done in the fame way. A law
3 might be palfed for raising a tax, fpecifying
- the mode of laying it, and the quantum ofmo
s ney to be raised, but with a provilion that it
t should not be collated until it was wanted, or
d until forne contingency should take place,
d But if this was done, he -should not conceive
t that he transferred the power of railing taxes
- to the President, any more than the passing of
it this bill would transfer the power of raising
1 i an army to him.
e The'paffing of the present bill in this form,
1 would also lave ex-pence in more ways than
d one. It would shew to the powers of Europe
s that wc were determined to prepare- for our
e defence, and that if an attack ihould be made
>t upon us, we are determined to repel it. It
1, was upon this ground that he was in favour
- of railing 20,000 men instead of 10,000. To
o lhew a spirit of this kind, he believed, would
'. be our belt means of defence, as it might pre
it vent any attack being made upon us, and by
- so doing, save us an immense expence.
d But it had been said, that those who wished
x to prevent the land tax becoming permanent,
is ought to vote against this bill, as the one was
- to meet the t/xpencc of the other. He did not
think this was the cafe by any means. Many
3. who voted in favour of the land tax being an
:y nival, he doubted not, would vote for tius bill
r c also. Th,ey might conceive that the money
would be batter raised in another way.
>. With refueft to the expediency oiftiic mea-sure, it appeared to him that it would be wife
and prudent in the Dnited Sues, in cafe of ah
declaration ©f war, an inwafionj or threatened
invasion, not-to lose a moment to add this
force to our Peaceeftabliftiment. The com
mittee had been told that 011 a former occalion,
the Militia were found adequate to the de
fence of the country. He believed an instance
of that kind had fcarc«ly ever occurred. He
knew they had been of essential beaefit in sup
porting the regular army ; but the inllances
were few in which they of themselves render
ed any elfential service in the war. He had a
gentleman in his eye, under whom the Militia
had alone rendered very considerable service.
■He I'poke particularly of the affair at King's
Mountain, 111 N. Carolina. But the Militia
would never remain in the field torany length
of time. It was true, he saw Militia in the late
war that were equal to any troops in the
world; these conliftedof men « hohad been dri
ven from their homes by the enemy, and who
could notofcourlerettirnto theirlamilies. But
God forbid this country (houldever be brought
into a like situation again ; if it were, Militia
would then be as good troops as could be had,
but not under any other circumflances.'
The gentleman from Pennsylvania had
mentioned the cale of Bolton. That was a ve
ry particular cafe. A small Britilh force was
encamped in a very populous country, where
the people were united in one fpn'it and trained
to-arms. They certainly were very serviceable
in the firft inliance. gut what was the opini
on ot thole who were at the haad of our Mi
litary Affairs at the commencement of the
.Revolution i Dirt they think the Militia were
equal to the defence of the country ? No ;
they did not. Ihe firlt step they took, after
the firft hostility was to organize a regular
corps. A Communder in Chief was appoint
ed, who carried the country through the war.
He went to Boston, and raised men as regular
troops. And this lie believed it would be pro
per to do now. He had as good an opinion of
the Militia as any man, but he believed it was
neeefl'ary to have regulars to mix with them,
Butthefame gentleman instanced Neiv-Jer
fey, where he lays great honour was atchieved
by ihe Militia. Mr. P. believed some of the
Militia were present at these actions ; but he
did not recollect any thing brilliant performed
at Trenton c(r Princeton by the Militia, with
out a regular force. If the gentleman made
enquiry into the business, he would find the
troops were mixed, and that the principal
part of the defence performed by regular
troops.
He mentioned another cafe almost exactly
of the fame nature. He meant the army which
captured General Burgoyne. Mr. P. said,
there were, he believed, more than one per
son present who w-as engaged in that affair,
and if the gentleman referred to them, he
would find that brilliant attion was not ac
complilhed by Militia alone. Those gentle
men will tell him, that had it not been for a
regulareffeilivearmy, Burgoyne's army would
never have been captured. He believed not
less than 6,000 regular troops were present.
The arguments drawn from these inliances,
therefore, fell to the ground.
Some gentlemen seemed confident in the
opinion that our Militia would be a fuflicient
defence for the country. For himfelf, he
would not helitate to fay, he Ihould feel him
felf much more easy, if there was a regular
force in the country from which he came, in
aid of the Militia, than if there was none.
He did not lay this from a w ant of refpeft tor
the Militia of South Carolina. They had
heretofore atfed well, and he had no doubt
they would do (o again, iftheir service (hould
be wanted. He had it froma gentleman whose
duty it was to attend to them, that they were
as ready to meet an attack as any Militia on
the Continent. He had not himfelf feert them
for many years; but if i»or
were stationed in the lower part of the coun
try where the population is sparse, to be
marched to any place where an attack might
be made, he (hould be better fatisfied, than to
depend entirely upon the Militia. Ifitwas
not, .ndeed, for the expence, he (hould be for
immediately railing troops to fend to that
partof the country ; for he believed a preda
tory invasion might take place from the Weft
Indies, and do considerable mifchief there,
before an effectual force of Militia could be
drawn out to oppose it. Feeling as he did,
therefore, he could not but vote for the pre
lent bill.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania admits
that it may be neeeffary to have a Standing
Army in time of actual war; but fays it
would be improper to raise an army before we
know whether we (hall have any occasion to
use it; but the gentleman ought to recollett
that except this probability exists, in a very
strong degree indeed, this army will not be
raised.
Before he fat down, Mr. P. said, it might
be proper to m ke a few remarks upon what
had fallen.from the gentleman from Tennessee.
Had it not come from his authority, he
could scarcely hav« conceived that militia
could, at any time, have been an overmatch
for regtihr troops. But the gentleman has
relied upon ancient hillory for the illnftra
tion of his position, and has spoken of
Greece and Rcme. He would remark, that
if this country was situated as Greece and
Rome were, and our enemy in all refpe&s
as theirs, the comparison might hold with
more force than it does at present. Besides
if the armies of Greece and Rome were mi
litia, there were no armies at that time.
Those countries defendsd themselves by ar
ftiies which they could organize and difcL
pline in the best manner, which they cauld
march a thousand miles from home, to con
quer diltant provinces. They were perhaps'
the mo:l regular armies which ever existed.
If, said Mr. P. we expected to be attacked
by militia, he (hould be willing to trust our
defence to militia ; but as it was likely we
should be attacked by well disciplined troops,
he fhotild wifli to have regular troops to meet
them.
But the militia of France was brought in
to notice, and their valour highly spoken of.
If we had the power which France has ex
crcifed of making a well disciplined soldier
of every man from 18 to 25 years of age in
one rcquifition, and if those were not fufli
cient, to call for a second and a third, it
might be said our mil tia would be equal to
the troops of France. But, God forbid
that we should ever have occasion to do this.
When the militia bill was under confidera
tiou, he was for imitating the French fyflem
in some degree, by dividing the militia into 1
felefl and referced corps, in order to give all '
our force military knowledge. He would '
remark, however, that when the French cal- '
kd out these militia, they grafted them up- ]
on the remainder of a well organized army, 1
to which, perhaps, may be ascribed, in a '
great degree, their successes. 1
With refpeft to the danger to be daaded
from ai» acmy of this kiod to the liberties of
| Uie people, he laid it was petfe&ly ground
left. He was as much an enemy lo a(la:id
ingarmyin time of peace, a»any maD ; but this
t was obe anarmy so a particular emergency.
Iftheargumentsofthegcntleman|fromTennef
: fee wentto any thi..g,they multgo to the dif
bandiag of our prelent small army employed
. principally in the defence of our frontier.
But what degree of blame can be imputed
i to ihe troops employed in Tennessee, to
i which he alluded ? None, in his opinion.
If there wa-. any blame it was in the law
> which originated in tljat house, dire&ing
| certain measures to be taken, and that any
, person f ttling within certain bounds in that
. llate which belongs to the Indians should
be removed by the Executive, and if he tho't
> it nectffary, by meaus of an armed force.
The President thought the time was arrived
J when he ought to carry the law into execu"
tion, and he did it.
From all the considerations which he had
I mentioned, and which he recapitulated, he
should be in f.tvour of retaining the firft fee
' tion of the bill, whith might afterwards be
[ modified, so as to become more generally a«.
ceptable than it now appears to be,
Mr. M'Dowell said, the gentleman
from S, Carolina (Mr. Harper) had yester
day worked up his pafiions in representing
the dangers to which the coast of S. Caroli
na and Georgia are exposed, from attacks
which may be made upon them from the W.
Indies, and attributed the want of a similar
teipper in other members, to the security of
their situations. Though he himfelf lived
near the mountains, yet he set for thofc
who resided en the f«a coast, with which he
was well acquainted. When that coast \va3
' formerly attacked, the people in liis neigh
bourhood (hewed their readiness to give the
citizens there every possible affillance, and he
was certain, if the fame necessity again < c
curred, they would be as ready as formerly to
defend their country against any invader
whatever.
But he was sorry to hear that the condi
ments of that gentleman were so greatly a
larmed, that they trembled for their fafety.
[Mr. Harper said, that he did not lay his
constituents trembled, but that they were ap
prehensive of danger.] Mr. M'D. undcr
ftood the gentleman as ullng very strong ex
prefiions on this fubjeA ; but if this law
were to pass, he supposed all would be well.
And yet, if the constituents of that gentle
man were in daily apprel'enfion of being at
tacked, how could the palling of th s bill re
lieve them, since these men were net to be
raised, until imminent danger appeared ? It
mud be recollefted, that during the summer
fellion, 80,000 militia men were ordered to
be held in readinefj, and any part, or the
whole of which may be called out, whene
ver it (hall be neeeffary. And would not
these be more effe&ive than the railing of
10,000 regular troops ? They certainly
would. If any attack was made, it would
be of a predatoiy nature, and the militia
would soon crush it.
Much had been said about the service of
the militia, and of regulars. Mr. M'D.
said, he had served in the regulars and knew
their ufefulnefs, and if a war took place, he
would give his chearful a (Tent to the railing
of an army ; but nothing (hort of war, or
adual invasion, would induce him to go into
an eftablilhment of this kind, as he believ
ed the militia adequate to our defence in the
firft inftaace. He Ihould therefore be op
posed to the bill.
(To le mntinned.)
Will be fold for Cash,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
tbe eleventh day of June next, at the Mer
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previo"ufly disposed of at pri
vate sale,
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS Of
| Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
700s acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the commoni of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M'lntofe, JohnHowell, & Ferdinand O'Neal.
2500© acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
44000 acres in Bath county, on both (ides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands of Jaceb War
rick, Daniel M'Cullumand JohnDilley, including
gooo acres of prior surveys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including s©oo acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including 45 88 acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, on the waters ©f said river, and •
of Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in tra<fts of one
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and tra&s abov» described.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and. drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers-
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
B. R. MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
No. 9, Norch Eighth street.
may 14. dt9
ADVERTISEMENT^
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chaticellor, will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
rh.i firft Friday in June next, part of a trail of
Land called SI RUGGLE, lying in Worceftercooß
ty, and ail the reft of the Real Estate of Jo(hua '
Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts. '
There will be given nine months credit for the one
half of the purchase money, and fifteen months
credit for the other half; the purchal'et or purcha- ■
fers giving bond with security lor the fame, on in
terest, from the day ol sale —All creditor of the ■
said Jolhua Townfend are also again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the izd'
day of December lalt, that beir.g the day of the
firft sale.
WILLIAM WHITTJNCFON, Traftee
may 14. j JW
An Ordinance for rcufing supplies, and making
appropriations for ihe service of the year one
thousand [even hundred and ninety-eight.
K n. T) Rit ordained and enafled bv the
' l ' 1 ) citizen! of Philadelphia, in Sele't
and Common Councils affcmhled, That the City
CommilTioners, immediately after the patiing
of this •rdnance, (hall raise, on the eliates re
al and perioual, and on the profeflioni ofper
fons within the city of Philadelphia, agreea
bly to the last county aflrelfinent, the sum of
1 fifty fix thousand for the service of
the year one thousand seven hundred and
■ ninety-eight, which (hall be appropriated in
• manner following, that is tofay.
For (upplying a deficiency in the tax pro
vi (ion made for the service of the year one
: thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven,
five thousand two hundred and thirteen -i+ioo
dollars.
Forfalaries to four C'rty Cemmiflioners and
their Clerk, at the annual rates eftabliftied
. for them reflectively, by the ordinance efta
bliftiing the salaries of certain officers, palled
the ninth day ot March, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-seven, two thousand eight
hundred dollars.
For the office expences of the City Com
milfioners, one hundred and twenty dollars.
For pitching and paving the streets of the
city, fix thousand dollars.
For repair ot old pavements, eight hundred
dollars.
For repair of unpaved streets, i,Boodollars,
to be expended as follows, to wit, uoo dol
lars in the paving of interferons of squares
eaitward of the center square, and the paving
of gutters betore the fide of any square whole
owners may engage in writing to provide the
. ncceflary curb ft«»ne, and to pave a fufficient
foot path ; the remaining 600 dollars to be
expended in the usual way.
For dleanfing »he city, thirteen thousand
three hundred and thirty-three, 33-100 dol
lars.
For watering the city, three thousand five
hundred dollars.
For lighting and watching the city, eigh
teen thousand dollars.
For regulating streets lanes and alleys, one
thousand dollars.
FOl the discharge of any demands which
may hereafter be made on the Corporation,
or to defray any expences which may be in
curred in consequence of anyrefolution or or
dinance of the.Select and Common Councils
for the ensuing year, and which may not be
otherwise provided for, three thousand four
hundred and thrity-three, 53-100 dollars.
Sect. 1 And be it further ordained and enafl
*d, That the sum of five thousand five hun
dred and fitty-three dollars and ninety-seven
cents, being the surplus income of the corpo
rate city estates for the year one thousand fe
ved hundred and ninety-seven, and the funis
which may fall due and be receivable in the
year one thousand seven hundred and ninety
eight, on the rental of the corporate city
estates for said year, (the bridge and ferry on
Schuylkill at the weft end of High-street only
excepted) (hall be applied and are hereby ap
propriated to the following uses and purposes,
that is to fay,
For salaries to the Mayor, to the Recorder,
to the Clerks and Melfenger of the Seledt and
Common Councils, and to the Clerks of
High-street and Second-street markets, agree
ably to the " Ordinance establishing the sa
laries of certain officers," parted the ninth day
of March, one thousand (even hundred and
ninety-seven, three thousand five hundred
dollars.
For the High Constable of the city, seven
hundred dollars.
For pay of Constables to patrol* the streets
of the city on the Sabbath-day of every week,
one hundred and fifty-fix dollars.
For menial fervicesand expences in sweep
ing and keeping in good order the High-street
and Second-street markets, four hundred and
sixty dollars.
For incidental expences, as printing, stati
onary, wood, candles, &c. for the Select and
Common Councils, fix hundred dollars.
For repairs and improvements of the city
corporation property (the bridge and ferry on
Schuylkill excepted) one thousand five hun
dred dollars.
For defraying a part of the expence and
coftjff finking the new wharf in the river De
laware, at the east end of SalTafras-ftreet, by
the advances and contrasts of Henry Pratt
and Thomas Allibone, in the year one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety-seven, four
thousand four hundred andeighiy one, 18-100
dollars.
Towards the discharge of five thousand
three hundred and thirty-three dollars and
thirty-three cents, contracted to be paid for
the Health-office lot and buildings on the
weft fide of the river Schuylkill, lately pur
chased by the Select and Common Councils,
from the Mayor, Recorder and Aldermen of
the city and the Commillioners for the city
and county of Philadelphia, four thousand
dollars.
Sett. 3. And be it further ordained and enabl
ed, That the sums ariling and received on ac
counts of tolls at the bridge and ferry on
Schuylkill, at the weft end of High-fireet,
within the year one thousand seven himdrud
and ninety-eight,,(hall be applied and are
hereby appropriated as follows, to wit,
For payment of the toll collector's salary,
1,000 dollars; and the residue of said toll re
ceipts (hall be applied to the discharge of all
neceflary repairs and «pences which may be
incurred on the account of and be properly
chargeable to the said bridge and ferry in the
[ firft instance ; and if after such discharge any
j further sum (hall remain, (liall in the second
instance be applied to the further payment of
the sum contrasted for the ptirchafe of the
late Health-office lot and buildings ; and if
any surplus (hall then remain it (hall be fub
jeft to such order as may be taken thereon by
the Seleft and Common Councils.
Enafled into an ordinance at Phi
(l.s.C.) ladelphia, this nineteenth day of
May, one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety-eight.
KEARNY WHARTON,
President of the Common Council.
FRANCIS GURNEY,
Prefident of the Seleft Council.
Fox's Auction Room.
ON Tuesday next, at ten o'clock in the
morning, will be fold by auflion, a num
ber of article® in the Sadlery and Coach
Harness line—conOftingof
Complete setts of Coach and Cha- "J
riot harness for 2& 4 horses J ;
Complete setts of Chair Harness finely plated *
Complete setts of Furniture for j 1
like harness J
Plated Bitts, Spurs, Territs, Buckles, Staples &c.
Spur Leathers, Straps &c.
A L S O, 1
A quantity of Engliih Walauts i
Capers j
Sweet Oil 1
Coffee Bags
Glass-Ware <
looking Glafles '
Silver iVatches \
EJiWARD FOX, lu&ioneer. c
\ %f)t (gazette,
1 PHILADELPHIA,
>' ~ ",,J—
---f WEDNESDAY EVENING,Mat 23.
} CONGRESS.
f In the House of Representatives of the U •
1 nited States, yesterday, Mr. Sitgreaves
1 moved the following resolutions, which he
proposed to be referred to the committee ap
- pointed on that part of the President's speech
1 which relates to the Fvoteftion of Commerce
, and the Defence of the Country, to be report
-5 ed upon by bill orotherwi(e ; but which, on
the request of Mr. M'Doweh and Mr.
1 Vfnable, were ordered to lie upon the table
I till to-morrow
Refolded, That the commanders of the private
1 armed vejels of the United States, be autborifed,
1 bv lan:, to take or deflroy any, crufert of the
t French republic, lubicb fball attack them on the
high seas, for the purptfe of fearcb or J'eizure.
Refolvcd, That the commanders of the public
armed vessels of the United States be authorized
: and direßed to take or deflroy any cruiser of the
' French repnblic vjhich may be found attacking,
1 on the high seas, any public or private vessel of
the United States, for the purpose of fearcb or
, seizure.
Resolved, That the commanders of the public
s and private armed vessels of the United States be
I anthorifed to re-take any vessel of the United
' States lubicb may have been captured by the
' cruisers of the French republic, and to take or de
ft roy any cr.ufer luhich may have made such cap
r lure.
Resolved, That the public armed vessels of the
I United States be autborifed and directed to fake ■
■ or dejlroy all armed cruisers of the French repub
lic iv bich may be found on lie coafl of the United
; States luithin of the Jhore.
The house went into a committee of t|>e
■ whole 011 the bill refpefting alien enemies,
and after agreeing to ionie amendments, and
! undergoing some discussion, it was agreed to,
and ordered to be read a third time to-mar
-1 row. This bill provides that, whenever there
, (hall be a declared war between the United
States, and any foreign nation, or any invasi
on, or predatory incursion, (hall be perpetrat
i ed, attempted or threatened against this court
try, all unnaturalized aliens of such country
' here, (hall be liable to be apprehended, re
strained, secured, and removed as alien ene
mies, and their goods and effefts fubjeft to a
just retaliation of any unusual severities and
1 confifcations, which (hall be fuffered by the
citizens of the United States, in the country
with which we are so at war, &c. And any
person foobftrufting theexecution of this ait,
or who shall harbour and conceal any alien li
able as an enemy, knowing him to be such,
after the Proclamation of the President, (hall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and liable to a
forfeiture not exceeding one thousand dollars,
and be imprisoned not exceeding seven years.
To the YOUTH o/PHILADELPHIA.
GENTLEMEN,
WE have embarked in a glorious cause
The Genius of Faftion stands trembling at
our ardour—lt has pursued its course, unin
terrupted for a series of years—each step has
been marked with theravagesofits scourging
1 hand—its career commenced with inveterate
malice—with malice has it been pursued
1 each objeft of its attack, which fell beneath
its powerful hand, has only encreafed its
vigour, has only strengthened its inveteracy
. like theaccurfed Upas, which by its bran
[ ches darkens and blasts every aspiring sprig
which falls within its reach ; the Genius of
' Liberty has begaa to wither in its presence,
and aided as it is, by envy, calumny, and
, every vice which di[graces mankind, jt has
, gained a height, from which, alas, it can
scarcely be hurled ; but are we destitute of
a remedy ? Is there no method pointed out to
flop its dreadful career, and avert the blow
it has levelled at us. Yes, my friends, a
remedy, which if applied with the hand of
prudence, will not only injure the branches,
but deflroy the root. The ardour, the en
• thufwfm, the zea! ofour youth, present a front
at which it stands appalled. Wnthingwith
agony, and in a paroxyifm of despair, it
make* one more ; one desperate effort. Well
convinced that nothing can withstand our u
nanimity, all the force of its expiring mo
ments is excited to damp, to annihilate it ;
I but its exertions are vain—the end of it's
career is marked—its reign has ceased
Liberty once more reigns triumphant. But
who can traceits progress ? Who can pledge
himfelf that it will not take licentiousness by
the hand, that it will not be deceived by its
specious appearance, thai it will not press
it to its bosom ? Should this be the cafe,
who pofleflea not penetration fufficient to dif
coverthe consequences ? Will it not by the
foftering hand of Jibe ty be exalted to an e
minence which we shall view with dread ?
Do we not wish to fee the garden flourifh
pure and uncorrupted, without a weed to
obftruA the growth of the flower 3 ? We
have discovered the remedy ; the spirit of '
unanimity exists. All hearts are bent on the
support of their rights, on the defence of
their country ; but in carrying the plan in
to execution, is there no danger of over
leaping the endofures of liberty, and wan
toning at large in the fields of licentious
ness ! Can we not err with good intentions ;
These observations are fuggelted in con- i
sequence of a disagreeable occurrence, which
lately happened at the house of a certain '
Printer in Market Street. Fired with en- '
thufiafm, and an honed zeal for the support
of their country, and insulted as they con- ,
ceived themselves by the observations which I
flowed from his Press, and probably exhili- <
rated by the pleasures of theday—the youth 1
who (hone conspicuous in the cause of Free
dom in the morning, were led to commit an
aft in the evening, which certainly reflefts no |
credit on them, but forms the ftroßgeft con- <
traft to a conduft which has placed them in
so amiable a light.
When we consider the motives by which
those young men were aftuated, the circum- \
stance might admit cf some palliation. If ,
in aiTcrting our rights and avenging our- '
selves for any infnlt we may have received, '
our vengeance could fall on theguiity alone, ]
Some might be offered ; but when
we consider, that a wife and family who j
certainly have n<*-erred, (and if they .
had, jhould It unnoticed,) rauft unavoidably
(hare in the punilhment ; when we consider
that tlie aft v\ as committed in the night;
- when we reffeft that the offence c«nfifted
merely in publishing fenliments contrary to
to our own ; when we consider that the au
thor of such sentiments always (lands open
• to the world, and amenable to the laws ;
when we view ourselves, by the aft, as
wresting from the hands of the Magillrates
that power with which we have entrusted
s them, in fine, when we consider that |ve
; have done an aft, which we pledged our
selves to endeavour to prevent others,
1 from committing—what (hall we think
: of it ? What (hall we fay ? We (land
1 at present in a situation, in which the pru
dence, the wisdom of three-score are requi
: site 10 preserve us with fafety and with hon
or ; the flame which has been kindled by
' the Genius of Faftion in another clime, is
> fall approaching our shores ; iuhreatens t®
annihilate us ; we rulh on with impetuosity
to arrelt its progress by removing from its
• course such materials as may aflilt it—we
( think vrc cannot miss the path. Let us how
' ever, my young friendsj be convinced that
' such an event may occur ; let us view our
felv sas mortals and as such liable to err.
W-ll these confideratioiK fail of keeping us
within the bounds of propriety ? Let us
■ view ourselves as Americans—will not this
' prevent us from.committing an aft which
might fubjeft us to the- censure of the
woi Id ?It will. Jull entering as it were,
the thfeftiold of the Tewp e of Fame, the
eyes of the World are fixed upon us—this is
the time to el"' «.ur charafters upon a
lure and ftroi.g Kalis. Firmness combined
with mm!. -linn now, will place U6 above the
critieifms of mankind hereafter. One error
will leaji give currency to their censures.
Let us t'heji be firm, united, moderate. Let
us endeavour to (leer in the path of- propri
ety. Let us not bow beneath an insult on
ths one hand, nor retaliate too hallily on the
ocher. On the oneJide % let us view our coun
try chiming our jffilhnce, 071 the other,
our own sharafters to l'upport. With these
in view, We cannot err ; the finger of scorn
will be pointed at us in vain ; the tongue
of calumny will tail of its aim ; the rude
envy will pass us by. Thas (hall
we be worthy of ths name of freemen—
Thus (hall Wafhiogton rejoice in his coun
trymen. Such, my young friends, are the
sentiments which croud upon the mind of
one who anticipates with pleasure the idea
that his prayers for your . success will be
wafted to Heaven. He cannot call them
difinterejicd—they cannot be so, while he
continues to be ONE OF YOU.
' J
The following interejiing articles ieere tranjlated
from papers bro't by the brig Lavinia, Capt.
CaJJin, arrived here last evening in 49 days
from Hamburg. (A .d.a . ]
PARIS, March 11.
There has been a tumult at Rome, in
which a number of the French 101 l their
lives; it was however loon quelled, and a
ni mber of the ringleaders arrelled and pun
ilhed. A proci amation upon this occafioA
was published to the people, in the follow
ing terms.
" Rumours were yeflerday circulated that
discontents prevailed in the French army.
The faftious, fanatics, murderers and rob
bers, came to a resolution to take advantage
of the moment; th*y began their tnafona
ble practices by murdering French soldiers
found alone, or in (jmall parties in different
quarters of the city ; they then collefte ) in
the quarter beyond the Tiber, and paraded
with a fanatic at th. ir head, carrying the
image of the Holy Virgin, to the C.urch .
ot St. Puer, (houtirg ' Live Maria,' where
infteadof a religious ceremonial they cut to
pieces the whole of the guard, and forcibly
took polleflion of the bridge of Sixtus, and
the neighbouring avenues- If their plan had
succeeded, a general plunder would have
commenced in the Jews street, and after
wards extended throughout the city. But
the villains knew not thefpirit which infpireg
French soldiers; they knew not that thefirft
fousd of the drum hallens them to their polls,
especially when the welfare ofa peoplewhofe
happinels only they have in view depended
upon it. I was advised of the tumult in
time. Large numbers had collefted beyond
the river. I placed myfelf at the head of
the troops, and withou losing time marched
againfl them. We were received with the
fire of mufquetiy, but republican bayonets
| loon bore them down. The gate near which
the unfortunate Duyhot was murdered, to
gether with the bridge of Sex us, were ta
ken by dorm, and peace is reliored.
" Inhabitants of Rome fear nothing—
the French wi(h you happiness; the pro
ceedings of last night are a clear proof of it.
" VIAL, Commandant."
It was said the dillurbances among the
soldiery arose from the arrival of MalTena,
Berthier being preferred as a leader.
P A S L E, March 5.
Letter from General Shauenburg to the
French Minilier, Citizen Mengaud, dated
Rome, March 5.
" This day at one o'clock, the brave war
riors whom I have the honour to command,
entered this city. The capitulation is the
lame as that of Sofothurn. Bloody indeed,
was the battle ; we were obliged to cut our
way from Froubrunn to this place. Twenty
field pieces and nine (iandards are the fruits
of the engagement ; the enemy loft many
me »- " SCHAUENBURG."
March 10.
The French troops are in poflellion of Lu
cerne, in the neighbourhood of Salothurn,
the women (food by their hnfbands, and fought
with scythes.
- 1-.
PARIS, March 12.
It appears the difturbantrc in Xome extend
ed to the neighboring diltritts; the inhabitants
of Cartel Gandolpho, Albano, and Viletres
were on their march towards the city, but
were routed by Gen. Murat. The rebellious
villages were puniflied, and xioi the principal
leaders (hot at Rome.
Gen. Berthier, who isexpefled here in the
course of a decade, will immediately go to
hispoftaschiefofthe flaff of the army of En.
gland.All the Englifli living at Dunkirk are pu\
under arrest in their houses, and their papers
sealed.
The Englifli prisoners are ordered into the
inieriorof the country.
They write from Switzerland that our troops
are in pofTeiTion of Berne; they were pursued
by the militia until they arrived at the gates,
when the inhabitants loft all courage, and
white flags were exposed from all the windows
ns a fignof fiibmiflion The Bernoife had for
j tified the famou? chapel of Murten, in hopes
I to renew the lcene of the Burgundians : The
J French took this pod by storm, and with
great solemnity biirnt the bones of the Bur
gundians slain there 310 years ago.
FRANKFORT, March 13.
By yesterday's post from Switzerland ac
counts are received of a considerable engage
ment having taken place in the neighborhood
of Berne, in which it is said 6000 men were
laid dead on the field. The Switfers are said
to been victorious, and that the city of
Berne is again in their pofTefTion.
VIENNA, March 10.
The Bth instant a Neapolitan courier
"brought advices of dillwrbances between the
French and the people of Rome, which con
tinued four days, during which tune much
blood-was shed ; the latter obtained ihe (u
---perority. Two thousand of the French loft
their lives ; and 500 were confined in the
<aftle of St. Angelo. The remainder were'
eucamped without the city, waiting for rein
forcements. These difntrbances were owing
I to the cruelty with which the Republicans en
forced the firfi paymen: of the lequifition of 4
millions of livrcs.
TRANSLATED
FOR THE GAZETTE 0 - THE UNITED STATES.
HUNIXGUE .V, 22 Vcnlofc.
There arrive' daily cannon taken from the oligarchic
army of Switzerland. Berne, as ivtU as Soleure and
Fribnurr, remains in the hands of the republicans. Gen.
Scha-tvenbourg, after having effected a jatSi'ion ioith gen.
Brune, put bimfclf in pursuit of the Berriois and their aux-
iliars troops, Jly'ws toioards the can tans of Zurich and
Lucerne. There has taken place at NiJsu a mofl bloody
combat. Four thousand men remained an the f eld if ba -
tie. Tbc corps of chasseurs of Zurich has been almcf en
tircly cut in pieces.
SIRASBURGH, *1 Ventofe.
IVt learn that the remainder of the army -of Berne has
chiefly retired into the Hajlilhal. It is to those savage
vallies, amidfl the glaciers, that the Bemois have trarf
pertcd their trcafures and their cannon.
Ac. ording t i ihe news from Bale of yejlerday, our
Jroops have entered Arau, and have occupied the ivhole
Argaw. ■
BRUSSELS, 23 Ventofe.
Ldtrrsfrom Coblentz tjfure that every thing is in train
again for the attack of the fortrefs of Ebrenbreitjiun.
The French trwps tvfio blockade that place are to be rein
forced. The general Thureau has given toe mofl severe
orders to prevent any one from entering.
Many Dutch men of •war arc leaving Helvoetjluys ;
they are defined to protcSl the. commerce of the pdrt of
Rotterdam, by hindering the lEngHjh from blocking up tbc
mouth jof the Meufe. It is believed that tbefe vejfcls .join
ed with fame others, nvill ftx their permanent rendezvous
in the IVeJI Scheldt, in order to expel the enemies' Jbipf
•wbicb are continually there, and •which, •within the lafl
sent days, have bad the audacity to make a descent upon the
ijtand of Cadfant, and to carry off fever ml bead of cattle.
The commijjionerof the marine has already pitched upon
the canal of Brujjels, upon the ScheUlt, as a rendezvous
for all the vessels "which are tofervein the expedition againjl .
England. There are hopes of being able to assemble in the
ports, rivers and canals of our department, about 300
vessels proper t» the transporting of troops.
PARIS, 28 Ventofe.
*tbe communes of Ktnnes and Cherbourg foticit the au
thority of impd/i™ ''n additional tax upon patents, or upon
the personal contributions. in order to contribute to the .local
txpenfes, to which the additional centimes are infufficient.
Sahthonax declared in a very long motion of order, that
it is impofftble to refufe himfelf to the homage which the
functionaries of the people owe to that people on the eve of
the fete of its sovereignty.
"It is to-morro-w, said be, that the fafces of the
consuls are to be displayed before the majefy of the people,
ice reprefnt, and of n hom it belongs alone ta the
factious overthrown in the coterfs of the ISth to
mif.ake t'pe rights.
*' I live to believe that we fall no more behold the•
fcandalotts fpeClarle which evinced rot long ftnee the faint
heart ednefs of the Conquerors and the insolence of the van
quished.
" Sovereign people, if you attach any price to the rights
which nature gives to you, which defpotfm bad robbed you
of, and which you have known to reconquer, tbrujl out
from public employ mculs, all those who would res ore tie
tbrone and the altars, and confide them to none but courage
ous men who have given pledges to the revolution. The
'enemies of tie republic, like the Parthian fugitives, fern
rot to wijb to retain your regards, but the air is darkened
with their poisoned arrows, I point them out, in order to
warn you agaiijl re/ling in a falfe security.
" prfifrrable countries of the South, it is rrquif.te that
I invoke the manet of your innumerable victims, in order
to engyge the republicans to hinder tbeir enemies from re
suming their funereal ascendancy.
" French if the fifty of ymtr country inter efts
you, remove from the cons itutional fund ons, both those
prevaricating judges, who have encouraged the audacity of
and those sacrilegious edminijlrators, who have I
violated with impunity the laws übofe execution was cd -
fded to them, and the vile agents of loyalty who have fi
nalized their culpable address under every form and in ev
ery fbape. The country is tired of revolutions. After
fucb a developement of its frees, tbe great nation needs to
put an end to its dJlraCliorw, in order to level its lajl ft role
«t the tyrant of the fegffand to exterminate the tyrant of
the seas, and to exterminate the menfler which devours the
people of India, of Africa, and of America.
" I demand ijl. That to-morrow, after tbedifconrfe
which Jhall be pronounced in the fitting by- the Preftdent,
thereJk ill be read by one of the Secretaries, the Rights of
JMeen ond of the Citizen ; 2. That it Jhall be referred to
a commijpon to conjtder whether it will not be convenient
J'nr these fame rights, to be read solemnly in all the com
muies, on the days of the republican fcß.vals.
[The Council, after bearing the filly and tedious harangue,
ordered it to be printed.]
In the ftting of the Council of Ancients on the 2 7 Ven
tofe, a trebly of alliance between France and her Italian
conquef.s, denominated the Cisalpine Republic, was
read and agreed to. The leading articles follow : France
Jl'tpulates fei the ejlablijhment of 2J ,OQO French troops in
the country. The Cifalpines to be partakers of every war
in which France (ball engage. The French government
to withdraw and replace its troops at itt pleajure—and
they as well as all the forces of the Cifalpines to be under
the command of French generals. The lirong holds to be
garrisoned by atleajl one half French troop:.
In the fitting of 28 Ve>. tcfe, the central ndminifration
of the Lower Rhine, offered, in the name of its admin j! ra
tors, the Jam of 15 S9O francs, towards defraying th
enpence of a defctnt on England.
The Cisalpine h^flators, treadipg in the bloody foot Heps
of their French ma Hers, have decreed the punijbment of
death upon any one who Jb'all publicly speak in praise oj
any foveresgn, or of any government which if- not demo
cratic.
Thv directorial despots, having effcCiually extirpated the
small remains of reason, justice and liberty, which the ra
pid pursuit of jujl vengeance had prevented tbeir predcccf
fors from annihilating in France, are nbw turning their
attention to the conquered countries, wbicb they are aCJive
ly engaged in reducing to the Came ft ate of servitude, op -
prajfon and misery with themselves. Not content ivith
plundering tbttn ir. a manner of which the annals of the
Goths, Huns, Vandjls aid Saracens afford no precedent,
they are laborioujly employed in ri vetting their chains, and
exploring new fourcesof tyranny, ra 'auty and otyrcffon
In eiedience to the call of tbc Executive DireCioryf the
Cifalpiws lave taken tbc folio wing mcafurtt to alfeviate I
tin if alarms f ft/ft? tl'ir Tlil'ton coiiqti.JJs, through the
means oj injur reClions arifmgfron: tie intolerable evils un
der which thrfe m-ferablefuhj Ch j»roan.
They have created jfx a inin.il commiffons of bigl
jitftice, each confjfing of fixe members, to be dijkibuttJ
through the country equally. The members are to be
*l(Qed by the Council of Ancients. After hatting taken
their oath, in the presence of the people, they Jhall proceed
tojudg-, by martial law, the crimes here fpec'ftetl.
Whtfoeyer Jhallfpread falfe alarms tending to place in
doubt the exigence of the republic, or eommit any other ad
of a nature to excite fear and dftrujl in the heart* of the
Cifilpine people, as •uell as to dprefs the public spirit, by
announcing ho ft He invasions on the pfirt of enemies,— by
telling them that they arc coming or meditate to invade the
C/falpire territory, tsfc flail be condemned to five years
labor on the public •worts.
In cast of donbt rfpeCting the authors of alarms occa
Jioned amongj} tb( pe.ple by tki Confluences of fnch ft If
news, the attention of the municipal or central ndmimjlra
tion of the place where' the crime -was committed Jhall do
away all uncertainty.
Whoever Jhall dejlroy or alter any emblem cf liforty,
it bet her be be the author or art aCtor in the crime, Jhall he
purrjhed with AH the accomplices Jhall Juffer fix
years imprifinmAit in Irons. Whoever Jhall offer an in-
Jiult to those fame emblems, (hall be likoirifepunijbed •with
death if the infultjrlves rjeto any tumult or re
volt ; otherioife be Jhall be condemned to five years bard
labor on the public-works, isfc. life.
RASTADT, March it.
The plenipotentiaries of the empire have at length
recogn zed ihe principle of the ccflion of the left
bank of the Rhine. They have inferred iu this ctf
fion conditions and ftipnJations in favor of particular
interests, wi» bout the acceptaiion of which nothing
would have been brought io'a termination.
It appears that these conditions were not of a nature
to injure the tntcrcHs of the republic, finee ihey have
not at all • prevented the republican miniflers from
parting over tneni. Behold then a continfltal peace
at length arrived i»ia manner to certainty.
There pafled through hcie to day, a Huagarian
courU, mmed Rapowatz, who is gone t<< Paris, fur
nifhed with F ench p?ffports. He is said to be char
ged with a pa r 'icu!ar million to the French govern
ment, the obj 61 of which is a secret.
It is said heie that the French will allow three
months to the inhabitants of th« left bank for return
ing into theircountry, and that after this delay, they
will be treated as emigrants.
The courier arrived yeflerday from Stralburgh, has
brought to the Fr-»ch minilters their"fcarfs and other
flelional decorations, in order to their appearance in
gra id coflume at the signature ot the preliminaries oi
peace.
A patriotic citizencominiflary has written toth<* ci
tizen minitttr of general police, an account of the
feiz'jre from a citizen merchant, of eight hundred
pieces of cafimir and velvet (English ftoods). The
citizen commiirary extols highly the patriotism of
his agent, who, being new in office, yet, nevertheless,
refuted five hundred louis d'or, effered by the mer
chant in compromise of the audacious and unprinci
pled robbery.
[The citizen printer who relates the fa&, spends
nearly a column in extolling the virtues of the rascal
highwayman ag eut.]
MADRID, February 22.
Great changes impending in ourminiftry.
They are agitated with nothing lefa than a revo
lution, at the huad of which the king will place
himfelf in making those reforms which are call
ed for by the public voice, and in reviving the
Cortes t in placing in his ministry men exempt
from prejudice, and capable of great undertak
ings who only can regenerate our country ; the
Count Cabarrus will-tit called to the administra
tion of the finances, and the prince of peace
changes his exalted station, in which he has en
joyed almost unlimited ptwer, for the embafly
to Fraace—We expe<s> here very loon events at
which Spain and Europe will beaftoniftied.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK May 22.
The Direftory sent ameflagetothe Coun
cil of 500, on the triumphs in Sw tzerland
and the Council declared the army had de
served well of the country.
A young man, handfume and very well
drefled> prefen»ed a petition tc the Dir.eftp
ry, rcquefting to be BANISHED to Cay
enne.
■ His motives are, that he cannot live under
a republican government—That if he mi
grates, his property would be eo nfiscated—
whereas, if BANISHED, he could ,erijoy
his revenues when arrived at the place de%-
1 nated. He invites thedirediory to-fend himoff
! with the firft (hipprovided for carrying away
| the persons banished.
It will be curious to fee what resolution
will be taken by the Directory on this ap
plication/
Fur tire r Exlrafis from the latgjl Bourdeaux
and Paris Papers, received by the Eglan
tine.
PARIS, March 14.
The fiiit again ft the Counters Lichtcnau
is terminated. The King of Prufiia,out of !,
refpe& to the memory of his father, wants
at present to fiuifh this business with fecre- 1
° y \
The Court of Naples has forbidden the j
the admission and circulation fpecies I
of NEWS-papers.
It is the citizens Charrier, aid to the ad
jutant-generals, who efcotted the POPE
from Rome to Tufcany, from thence to re
pair to Malta, by way of the Mediterra
nean.
CONSTANTINOPLE Jan. 30.
Ten Tartars, three of whom are loaded
with mens heads, rone of which is that of
Keaga of Paflawin-Oglou, arrived the 15th j
at the Seraglio, with news of the compleate :
defeat of this chief's forces.
BASLE March 12.
All the details refpe&ing the taking of
Berne by the French confirm the accounts j
already received, that this conqneft was the ;
confcquence of a most murderous battle, in ,
which the mili La, risen en Made, without 1
experience and led on by commanders of no
abilities, give the strongest proofs of cour
age and despair.
These brave men, fcattcred and unprovi
ded with any arms but fcythea and clubs,
came and placed themselves at the mouths
of the cannon and were torn in pieces by
the /hot—Even when the F-tnch soldiers
through humanity wiflaed to spare them and
cried surrender, they rushed on the cannon
to hinder them from advancing againll their
country. We are afTured that 800 women
who liad joined the troops of Ber»e were
left on the ticM of battle, and that 6000
lives of French and Swiss were loft in differ
ent engagements.
In the Council of 500 25th Ventofe, the
Coinmiflary of the Djre£tory belonging to
■ the Criminal Tribunal of Mount Terrible
writers to tl.e Council, ■' The regeneration
, of Switzerland lias given a mortal Wow to
' K'"gland—uwt thelof* of one head lias not
qwlte deftroytd lie hydra—T beg, Citizens
1 Legislators, you will accept the patriotic
' gift I now n>a!f- to haflen its defeat, and I
think I m-iy cry ont like Jonas Forty ,litys
■ more anil Nineveh Jkall le djfffiyiH.'! The
Council ordered honourable mention of the
1 offering of this citiien.
March 13.
The government of Berrte in answer to
the Ultimatum of General Brune, had on
the t It March entered into resolutions of the
following tenor:
I ft. The government fliall have in future
for its foundation, Liberty and Equality
of rights, as the invariable bafts of its new
■ constitution accepted by the primary afifin
blies.
2d. The aftual government declsrs itfelf
to be from this time only provisional; and,
■ after the example of Lucerne will be em
ployed in the buftnef, of the ftatc for one
month only, with the assistance of the De
puties from the towns and from the coun
try, until 'he new rei'refentative govern
ment (hall have been chosen by the "primary
afl'embles.
3d. The primary assemblies (hall aflem
ble in fifteen days, from that on wliiclf the
French troops (hail retire.
4th. The government accepts the bafts
of the Union of all Switzerland, in such
manner and form as faall be agreed on by
,t!ie Cantons, without foreign influence.
Jth. Tht perfotis arreiled on account of
political opinions shall be fmrnediatc'y set at
liberty by the recom inendatijn of the French
Directory. By th< pnfrnt decee we give
to the whole country a solemn afTurance that
as soon as the danger from without is part'
we will examine every complaint which shall
be ezhibited and provide every remedy
which may be confident with the welfare of
the country.
BERNE, March i.
THE CHANCERY OF BERNE.
The Deputies of Berne immediately car
ried this declaration, but he sent them back
with this answer, " that they mull accept
purely and (imply the propofttions and plan
of a constitution sent by Paris and he
added " that until they did so he would not
only not withdraw his troops, but would
occupythe most importaatpofts in Switzer
land."
On this news all the inhabitants of the
Cantons, of Bei»e, Lucerne, Zurich, Uri-
Scc rose inmafs, some with guns, others with
hatchets, scythes, halberts, pikes, sabres,
&c but some of the principal men of Berne
judging rightly that this Multitude fighting
without order or knowledge of military tac
tics, would by courage only make a (hort
resistance againftnumerousand warlike troops
made their escape by flight, in order to wait
the refnlt qf events.
March 11.
Every thing i» tranquil in this city
at present, several members of the Ancient
Regency-have remained and do not experi
ence any bad treatment. The hew govern
ment j has named two Deputies, profeffor
Stopfer and an Advocate, who go to Paris
to know what fate is reserved for uj.
PARIS, March 20
The feaft of the Sovereignty of the peo
ple was celebrated here in etfery department
with atl the order of decency that could be
wilhed, ~~-
The ceremony ®f presenting the nineteen
standards conquered by our armies from the
troops of the Oligarchy of Berne, was very
solemn vefterday, and attradted a great
concourle ef citizens. Tbefe nineteen flags
were carried by as many veteran defenders \
of the country into the hall of the public
audience of the Executive Direttory. At
the head of the procession were Suchet and
,Ruby chiefs of Brigade, sent to the Di
redtory by gen. Brune to lay at their feet
the trophies taken from the vanquished
The miniiter of warin prefentingthefe brave
men, made a speech ; thetwo warriors spoke
after him ; the Piefident of the Directory
in answer to the whole finifiied his oration in
these words : Invincible warriors, wherever
danger calls, your arms make fortune fub
!je<a to your claims, and your last victory is
I'alwaysthe pledgeof another at hand. There
remains an enemy whose crimes multiply
like your triumphs. Conquered in the field
they place their hopes in intrigues, in mer
cantile hatreds, the fury of priests, the fac
tiens of nobles, political terror ; they em
ploy erery resource ; they put in practice
every artifice ; but scarce are their plots re
newed when they are destroyed by the aven
ging steel of the republicans—Generous
Soldieis I The moment is at hand when you
will at last floptheprogrefs of their attervpts,
when you will call them to an account for
the tears and the blood they have caused to
I be shed—These are the last labours which
: you burn with ardour to finifh, it is there
also yiu expeQ the last viftory, the idea of
which makesevery freeman's heart palpitate,
and which will insure you thanks and ac
knowledgments in the name of humanity."*
Th» President then gave the two warriors
the fraternal embrace £nd prefentcd to each
in the name of a grates 1 country a pair of
pistols of the national manufadtery at Ver
sailles.
* When our readeri have attentively ptru
fed the'accounts given ly the
of their cruel und perfidious condud towards
Switzerland, will they not conjider the word
humanity as profaned when truing from so vile
a source ?
A few boxes of Umbrellas
To be Sold cheap—^by
Mordecai Lewis.
may 17 diw
Doctor Shked,
WHO formcfly lived in Caster's Alley, is re
queued to call at the House of Mr. Van
skiver, in Race Street, between N ; nth and Tenth
Street, where he will hear of a per fort who darned
ly begs his ajlifUnce in a cafe oi a very dangerous
nature. § may 21
TJkt otis ette.
PHILADELPHIA, |«
WEDNESDAY EVENING, 23 '
A letter received by an arrival at the , '
1 Fort, from St. Croix, informs, .that the t
. {hip New J.rfey and cargo, carried into c
, Porto-Rico, are condemned. j
c
j COMMUNICATIONS. ■ ' '5
If there is an honest man in the United J
States, who believes that the ruler 3 of the j ls
French intend to do justice to the peop'e of \
this country, such an one mav rejoice to i
hear that a negociation is commenced.—
Let us not deceive ourselves—the thing
moll devoutly to be wilhed, next to a change b
in the French administration, is, that the o
present set may throw off the mask—No , o
honest mart can pofiibly believe that any r<
thing fliort of fubmiflion, facrificirg our n
government, and paying an immense sum of f
money, wi 1 fatisfy the prefect Diredory. "*
A well informed Frenchman ftattd very d
fully, laftautumn,the course of events which e
has taken place ; and the plan of delusion f (
and deception, according to him, has several p
months yet to run before it will be com- c
pleated—A serious warning to us not to J
place the least confidence in any rumours, J
or extradts of letters, that do not conje
through a government channel.
The tbries, with a BritiOi army to second
them, in the year 1774» not dare to ut
ter such abuse againll the people of this •
country, as is now vomited forth by the
tools of that faflion which is juflly charge
able wi\h all the evils and horrors impend- ~
ing over u?.
*** " Fabricius, No. I."—is una
voidably omitted till to morrow.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. '
ft
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived at the Fart, Teflerday, r
Brig Fame, Knox, from St. Croix.
This morning the Ihip Richmond, Hathaway, d
from Calcutta, failed January 25,
Brig Su&nnah, Hunt, Cape Francois.
Schr. Amy, Culhing, ditto.
Sloop Mary, Tatem, St. Croix.
Ship Foui Friends, G!en, from Havanna.
Schr. Polly, Croflwell, from Martinique.
The Folly failed under convoy of the (hip
Smallwood of 16 guns bound to Alexandria—
left at Martinique (hip Alexander Hamilton,
Pot ts, of thie port, to fail under convoy the loth J.
instant. , 0;
Baltimore, May 2t.
Arrived on Saturday, Cehooner Sally, ~
captain Pittman, 13 days from Salem r
Captain P. informs, that on Monday last,
off New Point Comfort, he spoke the brie? p.
George of Salem, bound to Alexandria, 01
which had been brought to by a French P'
privateer, a sloop of 18 guns, the captain n
of which put on boajd the Geerge, forty- V
eight Americans, amongst whom were five
captains ; all of them had been taken from
different American vessels, off our coast, h
mostly belonging to New-York and Boston. q
Ibis Day Publijhed, a!
By J. ORMROD, No. 41 Chtfnut-ilreet, o;
( Price 2 5 cent#.)
OBEDIENCE
TO THE '
LAWS OF GOD,
THE SURE AND INDISPENSABLE 1
DEFENCE OF NATIONS. i
A JJKCOURSE, te
Delivered in the Sctond Prefbytflrian Church, o;
in the City of rhiladclphia, May 9th, 1798. _
lieiv c r the day appointed by the Prfsidknt of
the Uniti d i'ATks, t<< be oblerved as a Sea
ion for Solemn Humiiiarion, failing and Pfayer.
By AJhbel Green, D. D.
I'djiur of the a fir if aid Church.
Likewiic, jull publiihed, a Serrnob, on the !
fame oc.afion, by the Kev. Mr. Abefcrombie. c
rniv 22 3t
WILL BE Thurudav 24th inlt r
2>y 'JOHN ORMROD, Chelnut ttreec,
A PATRIOTIC POEM CALLED,
T he ALIENS :
Written by a Senator of the United States,
in conference ot the lien Bill.
Some in(tKiitions of Pennlylvania are noticed- n .
Dedicated to GEORGE WASHING I ON.
In which the real Ainei ican may enjoy
The f afi of reason ; a 1
And the Jloiv of foul-
(PKICE 25 CENTS.)
may n 3* _
Collector's Office,
Philadelphia. May m, 1798.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION. c
AT the Ctiitom-Houfe, on Friday, the sis- y
teenth of June, 1798, the following mer- a
chandize, which remain in the Custom-House h
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the s
owners or consignees thereof: b
(XH) eight half faggots of steel c ]
( I'D) 202 one bale pirthweb n
(FL) a quantity of steel Ci
one cafe lamps j a
C&C one cafe bobbin jj
(W) one imall hex medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books a:
I&C one keg-herrings ft
(W) one fmal! box of samples of buttons
-Qj 1 a 3 three bales girthwab
"VH] 200 one ditto ditto
NJ 200 one ditto ditto
(No nlirk) eight jars olives *
(ditto) one bundle slates
[LS] one small box locks
dtisJ
For Sale, s
.BY THE SUBSCRIBER, NO 10, CHESNUi STREET,
II Casks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold o'n realc*iabie terms on a ifeor
crcci.it.
Robert Hendetjon, 1
aprii 2 nivr&sAW
—•— a
TO BE SOLI), h
By John Nixon Sff Co. "
A few lilids of excellent St. Cro'x SUGAR ind b
RUM, wliich will I f landed at Will ngs and Fr*p- p
cis' whsif 1 rxt Monday, ilia aifi uiftsnt. i
may 16, ' Jit eotf
grenadiers. ■"
At a meeting of the Philadelphia Volun
| teei Company of Grena-Jiers, May 22,
Refolvcd, that a Committee of live mem
bers be appointed for the pnrpofe of rei
cemng the applications of persons disposed
to join the Corps
Pursuant to the foregoing resolution, all
t lufe who are inclined to become members
of the Company, are requeued to make a|V
, plication, immediately, to either of the un
derligncd.
7 " ntz,n ? cr > *39. High ft. -) C
Danul Murgntroydy 11, Walnut ft. / -
- S 't h "> «• Tbompfon, 6, Liurtl court, > 5
Harnfon, 53, Chefnut ft. 1 1
Job.t Hard Fenno, No. n 9 , Chefnut ft. J
VOLUNTEER "GREh^si —
1 m / et < n & of 'he Troop will
be heldl at the house of Barnabas M'Shane
on Friday evening the 2jth inflant, at 7
o clock, when Gentlemen are particularly
recededI to attend, as an additional nomi
nation of new members will be ballotted
for. JOHN MORREj.r, Capt
CJ~ The Committee appointed lafSarut"
day evening by the meeting at the City- l a*-
em, to confer with a committee of M Pher
fon's Bh.es, request the attendance of those
persons who are inclined to join the A(To
ciation, at Six o'clock TOMORROW
EVENING, at Mr. Dunwoody'j Tavern,
High-Street.
The Subscribers, ~
• Ar£ LA.VDINC
At Wilhngs' wharf, from on board of the
Bng Lav, „ ia , Capt. Caffin,
1711 Bars of Archangel Iron.
FOR sale by
Phi lips, Cramoud &' Co.
may 1 }
FOK LIVERPOOL, 3 "
The remarkably fall failing Brio
PENNSYLVANIA,
Tatbm. mailer.
She W»" ,:,il in ttn days —for
freght Or paffjge, apply to J/IMES YAR!),
H'aluut-ftreet Wharf.
™Y *3 diot
Notice is hereby Given,
TO the creditors of Charles Hamilton, that
he has applied t the Court at Heading
Berks county, for the benefit of a law of this
commonwealth, providing relief for infolvenc
debtorr, the court have ordered, and do appoint
the Monday of Anguft eourt next, to hear
the creditors of the said Charles Hamilton at
the court house in the borough of Reading
ma y «3 -t_
Wants a Place,
AS wet nurse, a Young Woman, who cail
produce good recommendations.—Enquire
of .the Printer,
may
C ONT 11 ACTS. ~
THE Managers of the alms house and houle
of employment, in this city, will receive
proposals in writing, to be left at said hnufe on
or before Wednesday the jsth instant, from any
peffon or psrfons,'•willing to contrail for fur.
nilhing Fre(h Previsions, fay, Beef, Mutton and
Veal, for the use of the poor in said houses for
one year : The contrail to commence on the firft
of June ensuing ; the meat to be frefli and mar
ketable, and to be supplied in quarters, fore and
hind alternately, or in fides o'r carcafe#, as re
quired. A!f>, forfupplving milk',for the use
of the laid poor. The milk to be new) sweet,
and umdultera ed, and the fiipply to comment*
on the 14th of June ensuing.
£jr order sf the of Managers,
JOHN tVMMINGS, Steward.
*3 011J
A Young Woman,
Lately from England, withes to engage
as a seamstress in 3 genteel family, or to at
tend a Lady.—A line left with the Printer hero
of will be immediately attended to.
"»y -3 ' » Jt
Robert Smith is? Ce.
No. 58, South Frsnt-Jlrcet.
HAVE received by the (hip Be'videre from
London, a quantity of Kijff.a Goods, <on
fiflinof Diapers, Drillings, Ravent-duck, Bcc.
And by the Farnv. arrived at New York from
Clafgow, an aftortment of Scotch goods.
They have also on hand India Nankeens,
I.utcflrings, and a variety of India Mufti ru.
m *V *3 dsw
30 Dollars Reward.
THE Cellar of the Subscribers was broke
open last night, and several pieces of
mount ground Chintz of a set figure were car
ried off. Whoever will apprehend (he thief or
thieves, or recover the goods, (hall receive the
above rew.ard, or in proportipn for any pari
thereof. ROSERT SMITH Ac Co.
No 58 South Front-Jireet.
may 23 " daw
20 Dollars Reward.
RUN away, last night, from the Subscriber,
living in York Town, Penrifylvatiia, a
German Servant man, named John Nicholas
Kolb, a taylor by trade about 30 years of age
and about 5 feet 2 inches high, has brown curled
hair, and nearly bald on his head, had on a blue
Surtout coat with a silk velvet cape and a da>-k
blue coat with fleel buttons, a green mixtureil
cloth jacket, cloth colored thickset pantaloons a
new rorum hat, clouded cotton {lockings and
calf-Ikin Ihoes with firings. He is a good fehol
lar in the German tongue and fptaks F.nglilh ;
it is likely he may lurk in and abdit the city of
Philadelphia as he haj acquaintances there.
Whoever takes up and fecurts fiid fen-ant in
any goal so that his inafter c:n have him again,
(hall have the above reward paid by me,
Thomas Owens.
may 23
VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front-Jireet.
HAVE FOR SA L It,
,50 Hog (head* Virginia Tobacco, of Frefleficlgf
burg slid Falmouth Infpt <SHons.
jo Hogsheads ditto of Richmond infp*<slion.
may 8. cxi' t
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the B3nlc of Pennrylva
nia, for such Plan of a Barking Honfi
rvecompanied with fefions and elevations, a« miv
be approved of by the Direilors. The bnildlucr,«
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or itio fe-t
in depth, and to be so planned as to admit 01 1 »
being made fir> proof. It is requested that tie
plans may be sent to the Calhier of the Bank, pre »
vious to the firft of June n--xc.
; a r r 'l <'}■ tuth.tljeFor Sale, or Charter,
& THE ARMED SHIP
BELVID ER E,
Jonathan Reynolds, Maftcr,
£i[ L YINC at Jefleand Robert Waln's
wharf, bnrthen 156 tons, built at j
New-York, by Mr. Checfeman in 1793» j
oak, cedar and locufl—was completely coppered in ,
London last year with 18 ounce hard rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a staunch and faft tailing fliip, i- e well found
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to lea in
a Few I»yj at a very little expence. For terms of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's or at the" Merchant's Coffee-
House, to
RICHARD D. ARB Elf.
WHO HAS FOR SALE ON SOARD SAID SHUP
, 10 Tons dry white lead
5 Tons of (hot
13 Tons rolled -fiieet lead
20 Baits English Duck, aiTorted numbers
to Tons whiting
tnny 19 §
JUST ARRIVED,
In tKe brigGayofo,capt.Bingham, fromSt.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
Al l°> eoR SALE >
Enquire of
Jehu HoUingf-worth & Co.
N<J. U, Little Water llr.et, South,
april 40. _ _
for sale.
T mil Havannah Sugar
iOO Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willing!and Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Aitivc, Will
jam Williams, mailer.
«JSlfcl>Th e said Brigfor sale,
And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Holltngj'worth iff Co.
march 30.
IF Mr. Charles "William Klemeke,
Formerly of London, a;id who left England for
some p4> tof the United States of America, in
the year 1796, be living, and will apply perfon
ajiy or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti
more, or to Mcfirs. Isaac Hazlehurft and Son,
in Philadelphia; ho may hear of fomerhing great
ly to Ms advantage. Any information refpedl
ing the said Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
would be thankfully received.
may 19 .
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
•f the newest and most approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, jutt received,
AN® FOR SALE BY
Alex, J. Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street. I
may tB. s__ j
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
with to receive two or three genteel board- |
ers. The House is handfomtly lurnilhed; the j
Gardens, Maadows and Lawn are beautifully laid j
out, And well Hocked with the ehoiceft Fruit.
There arefevfra! Musical Inftrum«nts, amongst J
which is a most excellent patent Piano Forte. The ,
Family have a handfoße Coach, which may beat
the ft rvice of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are most excellent
—the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of thisGa
2«tte. dtf may 16.
WANTED,
IN A PLEASANT SILUATfON,
WITHIN a few miles of Tewn|(for a Lady, late
ly from England) Board and Lodging, in a quiet
imputable family—-would engage for five or fix
months, and give very .little trouble. A line di
rected to J. S. and left at the Printing Office will
be attended to immediately.
may 18 _ *3 t
A Country Seat.
TO BE LET for the fummcr season or by the
year, the greater part of a large Hou-fe, in
a high, healthy situation, above the eight mile
stone, on the GermaHtown road (occupied only by
a newly married couple)—with stabling and con
venience for keeping a carriage. For further par
ticulars, enquire ol Caspar W. Haines, in Ger
mantown, or the fubferiber, on the premifes^
HEZEKIAH HUNTSMAN,
may I. aaw^w
Ross Ss* Simsoa,
HAVE for sale,
22 baie&Superior Madrais blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Bfcftas, Coffaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica and") RUM
Bengal J
aprili §
Thomas y Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
AtNo.s, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and eolfee
cups and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pangem cloths, choppah romails, and bandannoes
China and English umbrellas,
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. iod. lid. and aod. nails
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanish brown and white
lead
English fcythes42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
ill barrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious Starein Dock-street,
No. 7, to be kt, three stories high, suitable for
any byfinefs. § 4th mo. sth
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro
Man, named Glafgoio, perhaps he may pass
by the name of tSlafgoiu Lee, or may change his
name; he is thirty one years of age, nearly
fix feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un
derlip, a (mailpart being bitten out between" the
michiie and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has been very fore,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
some time pall : he is a Gout, strong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro woman of
Mr. JofhuaLingoc, of this county. Itisfuppofed
thvy are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that fee urea said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfer iher fiiall get him again, (hall receive the
above reward. £SMR BAYLY.
State of Maryland,
Somcrfet County, april to. J may 4—4W
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
INpnrfuance of the A3 of Csngrefs passed on the filth day of July one thousand (even hundred and
ninety-ieven, entitled " An Aft laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
Ail: palled on the fifteenth day of December, »ne thousand seven hundred and nwety-fcveo, entitled
" An Ail to postpone for a limitefl time the commencement of the dutirs impi.fed by the Act enti
tled " An A-c laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and alter the*
firftdayof Jslyenfaing, the several Stamped Dutic-s hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the Onited Status.
For every (kin or pieceof Vellum or Parchment, or Iheet or piece of Paper, Epon whicb (hall be
written or printed any or either of the lnftruniciui ar writingslollowing—to wit:
r Dls Cu. | Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ..... 5
Any Licence to pradlice.or Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment »r registry of
any Councilor, Solicitor, Attorney, A dvoeate or Proflor, in aHy Court of the
United States, - - " 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of jhe United States
for one of the said Officei, lhall so far is relates to the payment of the
dutyaforefaid, be a firfficient admiflion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said oflices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military fervicts) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... i
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bona, - - I
Any Receipt or discharge foror on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or o
ther teßamentary instrument, or for any (hare or part of a pcrfor.al ellate di
vided by-force ot any statute of diftributi.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceaieS, the amount whereof (hall be
abovethe value of Fifty Dollars,and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... - 15
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - - 50
And for every further sum of Five Hsndred Do'.brs, the additional furn of 1
Any Policy of Insurance or instrument in nature thereof, on any (hip, vefle'l or
goods inl'ured from one diftriift to another in the United States, Ij
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five.hundred dollars, - 15
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that shall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular (late, - 50
Any Bond, bill fusgle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promilTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or made to or with the United Stales or any slate, or for their
uferefpefiively, -
]f above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If about one hundred dollars and not exreeding five hundred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, ----- 75
Provided, that if any bonds or notes shall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjecl to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforelaid —viz. ■ -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollat s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, -io
If above one thousand dollars, - 30
Any Notes ilTued by the banks now eflablifhed, or that may hereafter be efhb
li(hed within the United Stjtes, other than the tfotos of.fuch of the said Banks
ai lhall agree to an annual compofttioil, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpeilively, according to
the following scale. -
On all notes net exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - <>
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - - " I
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - - %
Any Protest or other Notarial afl, ....
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - ij
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for left ftian
five hundred dollars, - - - - - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, a
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
K from one difiriil to another diftrifl of the United States, not bei»g in the
fame State, .... I 0
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - is
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or efTsfts, made in-any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels diftraioed for
pent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) jo
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, »f a (hare in tbe Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ...
If imder twenty dollars, at the rate of ton cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be collefled and received by the Suporvifors, Infpeftors aud other Officers
of Infpe&ion, in the Ceveral Diftridh, Sarveyo and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
persons as (hall from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diflrifts for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervisors of the fsvcral Diftrifis will, prior to the fir (I day of July ertfuing, and as soon as
may be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates ef duties before enumerated, o» payment of thefaid duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n>av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rate 3 prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, Infpjitcr, Officer of Infpeilion,
or other person appointed for the diflribution of Stampe, by the Supervisors of Diftriels
GIVEN under my Hand, at Phihtdelpbia
the Jay and year abovenentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an afl of Congrcfs passed on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the ad palled on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An adl laying duties on ftampeJ vel
" lum, parchment and paper."
The stamp duties on debentures or <?ertifi
cates for the drawback of Cuftotns or duties on
Imports are repealed.
11.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per CcntQm, will be allowed by rtie Supervisors
or Infpedlors refpedlively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Teg Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each skin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each (kin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furniffe
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lelTer quantity.
Given under my handy at Philadelphia, the
day andyeir abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To he Let,
(And poMVflion given on the ift-of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
22 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and ftables,at present in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
April 2. §
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR. SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
( Price 25 Cents J
Refle£lions 011 Monroe's View
OF THE CONDUCT OF THE EXECUTIVE)
As published in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
fignature of
SCIPIO,
In which the Commercial Warfare of Francs is traced
to the French Fa<slion in this Country, as its Source,
and the Motives »/ Qffejitfon, UjV.
TO BE SOLD, by
John Nixon & Co.
A quantity of very excellent LOG WOOD
NOW LANDING AT their wharf.
may 10. jawtf
Frefli Teas.
Jufl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Comptiug House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
and Br
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hf* Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflorted; bhcV and coioured Lute
itrings and Sat tins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and luteftxiDg Umbrellas,;
whale-bone flicks.
They bavt a(fo Fer Sale,
Ell wide Perftans, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxes.
march 8- §
Now Opening,
At Wr lli A m M'L A w s Saddle Manufa&ory,
Nu. 72, Chefnut Streit,
A general aflortment of Horseman's
Pi ft ok, dire«st from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartourh Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Haraefs, &q.
April 9 dtf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
infl: Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check booksare kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City of Wathiog
ton, No. il.and Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may he had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
' Union.
N.B. The business of a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difco*nting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15, £
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT CF THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of thetrcafury, were
forwarded for London by the (hip William
Penn. Captain Joliah, which hath bees captured,
and the Certificates fuppoied to be 1011, viz :
3164. 82. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June 2, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,072.
8021. if. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3620. jo. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July- io, 1797* N°-
10190.
20183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jasnet Mathew, of Upper Seymour (Ireet,
London, Widow, dated Odober 31 1797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the laid offico-of
jhe Treasury of the United States,—and all per
fens concerned aredefired to taks notice.
ALSO—IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen (hares Storkof the Bankof U sited States in
thename of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January J, 1797.
No. 25982, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of w'lich,application ia meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons concerned therein are desired to
take notice*
JN. FAUGH AN.
Philadelphia, may 4. s6vr
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, (landing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Daniel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlesex, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. 21,5 c? —j3066 to
13075, ten (hares—No. 2149 —1305610 13065,
ten (hares—No. 2148 —11509 to 11518, ten (hares
—No. 2147 —11471 to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, vrire forwarded for London by tke
(h:p Wilham Penn, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be lo!t; for the re
newal ef which, application will be made to the
Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I *d6w
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Filh and Wheeling :
Creeks and Ten Mile Ran.
Tbefe Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 3700 acres, which were patentad in 1792 ;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tra<sl
is between the Ohio and Monongahela. very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Wa(hington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greeoe(burgh and Wheeling. •
On payment of one lowrth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the red
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2T. §
TO BE SOLD,
26,7 &o acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, o,r late in the townftups of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
Thcfe Lands, their quality and (ituation,
are a very desirable obje& for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will he given for the refh
due. Enquire of the Prmeer.
April 21. §
~ Just received.
And for faleby W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey High-street
T. Dobfo.n, 41 South Second-ftrect and the
Booksellers generally,
(Price 5-8-ths of a Dollar )
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poerrii historic and deforiptive 1
By a Lady of BoJlgti.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I,
Allusion to the furrouuding Profpedfc—lnvocation
to the Rjver and fylv*n Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Fictii n discarded—Dedication to Wafb
ington—The A&ion open*at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfonification of Fortune and Fame—
Waflungron at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation lor the fafe Retreat of the
Britilh Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Co*grefs—Declaration of Independence—Cha
racter of the Colombian Soklies—-The Pact's
prophetic Apostrophe to the Progress Qf Free
dom throughout the World,
march 30. §
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, pext to Chefnut (Ireet,
oppolite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfeit) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance ps defigi*, truth beauty of
colpuring, fieatqefs and masterly execution, has
not bei n equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furniflied with ail pofiible dispatch, 011 the mod
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in (lile (not that
superb (lile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist master of, hi« proleffion.
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profefiional talents, p.un&aality, and reason
able demands, will meet th.? entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wi;lpleafc to call at his Painty
ng Room*. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wiftiing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a masterly manner, will no
doubt feel themfelvej obliged for the kind can ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trull fetf
flattering advertisements, hut examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —save the fpoil
ingof good silks by Gfcorge Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requires for the contracting talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may i.e.
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
has been accuflomed to marketing for a family—
his age about thirty two years. For fu ther parti
culars, apply at the office tkia Gazette,
may 15. §
FOR SALE.
_A neat Country House,
THREE and a half miles from the city, on
the Wiflahicon road, with seventeen and a
half acres of land, half in orchard and half in
grass. Apply to Edward BonsallSc Co.
in Dock-street, or te the fubferiber at Mount
Pleasant, on Schuylkill, adjoining the premises.
yonathan Williams.
N. B. If not fold before the firftof June, it
will not be for sale during the season.
may 19 IJ
Military Colours, I
PAINTED ON SlLK—by
George Rutter Ssf Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure the hardships of the
weather without injury, and which for neatnefa
and exattitudc of colouring cannot be surpassed in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with dispatch, en the molt moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accomplilhedin that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rnrter »>ledge9
himfelf from 20 years experience iu .this city will
meet the entire approbation of his friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of l'pecimen's may be seen at their
?ainting bloom, N orris's Court, back of the Naw
Library.
may 3 d6w
NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifemcrt of C.
Gullagcr, in terms derog-atory of ©ur pro
feffional abilities, we have to request the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits of «ach l»y a comparison ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents of e.lablilhed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrofling that bufincfd which
their profefiional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opr ion mufi
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work exccut-*
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager iu every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, andlhew thenecef
fity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to thi
feif-flattcTirig advertilements of Mr G.
Any person wishing a fufiply of FL AGS and
DRUMS will please apply to GlO. Rutter and
Co. Norris' Court, or Hxkry Frailly, Gcrmae
town. §6w may 8.
TO HE RENTED,
To a Small Genteel Family.
APlcafant House in Dork-llreet, near Front
ftreet—Apply at No. 15 c South Second-
ft may 17
Cavalry Academy Philadelphia.
HP SWaNN, Reipedlfully informs the dif
-L • ferent troops of Light Ilorfe in tKis city
and county that he i« ready to engage with them
to difcipiine them/elves and Horfm agrceajble to
the ftridleft rules of art ; his manege y open ride 9
Leaping Barr, Stables &c. &c. are in complete
order.
The terms will he exceeding low. Should a
large number offer, the charge to each individua
wrll be a mere nothing, though the quantity
may make it worth his attention, which will at
all times ftriflly be paid: and he flatters him
felf that such troops as he may have the honor
to inftruiSl or fupermtertd, will amply speak for
themselves, having proof for their evidence.
N.B. T. SIVANN has engaged the celebrat
ed Prufian Huzar, Lewis D. to teach
the use of the Broad Sword and small arms, on
easy terms, either by the week, month or quar
ter. \
may 11 d3t
Very Great Bargains,
CONSIS TINGof Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, now felling off and well
wdrth the attention of Houfckeepers to make
purchase of Enqniie of
7 homos Randdll,
No. 88 Spruce-Jlneet.
rna y *7 v §
For Sale,
TbecargoofthebrigAmericanfromLaguira,
CONSISTING OF
Caraccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No, in, South Fourth Street,
april 23 ' §
FOR SALE,
THE whole or on« half of a PLANTATION
on the river Delaware, between Burlington
and Bordenton (two miles from the latter), con
taining about 400 acres ; 60 of which are bottom
meadow, and 100 wood land ; there are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (exclusive of mea
dow) but will cxceed % 50 the next ; and any quan
tity of manure may be had for the upland from the
meaaow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
i\pd 70 hoglheads of excellent cider ; a dwelling
houfe with a barn, liable, granary and other ne
cessary buil ioga go with one part in cafe of z di«
vision ; on the other are no improvements, but has
one of the mod elegant fixations f«r a house to be
seen on the river. The 3?jd is of good
suitable for grazing or agriclH|ure, and convenient
to market by land or water. Fdr terms apply tt*
the owner on the premises.
Thomas St- John.
May 5 eodtf
FOR SALE. 7
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made to suit the purchasers.
Thafe situations are conjidered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city,
and the road known to be fafe and good at all
seasons of the year. The titfe indisputable—A
plan of the grounds is in the hands of the fub
feriber, who will make known the terms on ap
plication to hira at his office No. 124 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
may 1. ?tawtf
Cedar Posts, Rails and Shingles
FOR SALE.
THEY will be delivered to anyplace in Mary
land, Perinfylvania, New-Jersey, or New-
York, where boats drawing fix feet water can go
lrom this place. It will often suit the feller to
receive in return corn, provisions, wet or dry
goods. Letters directed to the fubferiber at this
place, and put into any pod office in the United
States, will be regularly received and carefsfly at
tended to. Those who wilk to contrail in Phila
delphia, will please to apply to Gidcon Hill
Wells, No. 135, Markn-llrect. The fubferiber
is ddirous of contra&ing with foaia rcfponfible
person in Philadelphia, to receive and difpofs of for
him, on commifiion, a quantity of two feet Shin
gles, for home use, anfl of two feec and eighteen
inches, for exportation.
William Hill Wells,
ftate of Delaware,
april a 2. »a\V4W