of tije tUltffttS Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1777. J
(£> IF Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
formerly of London, aad who left England for
fonie part of the United States of America, m
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person
ally »>r by letter, to Mr. John Caarerc, in Balti- ,
more, or to Meflrs. Isaac Hazlehurft and Son, i
in Philadelphia, he may hear of something great
ly to his advantage. Any information refpedl
ing the said Mr. Charles William Klemeke, °
be thankfully received. c
may 19
Ihe Subscribers 11
a
HAVE FOR SALE,
Six Tons of Cordage, t
ASSORTED. I
Two hundred weight of firft fort Ifmglafs.
Philips, Cramond & Co.
may J 8 jt
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
the newest and moll approved patterns, entitled -
to the drawback, ju& received,
AN) FOR SALE BV I
Alex. J. Miller Co.
No. *64, Sowth Front street,
may 18.
WANTED,
IN A PLEASANT SItWATION,
WITHIN a few miles ofT»wnP(for a Lady,late
ly from England) Board and Lodging, in a quiet
raputable family—would engage for five or fix
months, an . give very little trouble A line di
rfiiled to J. S. and left at the Printing Office will
-be attended to immediately.
may 18 *3* _
" TO BE SOLD;
40,939 acres °f Land.
IN Greene v /ounty, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Creeks and fen Mile Ran.
Thefc Land* arc fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five foil lings per acre ; pates ted early in 1787,ex
eept 370 c acres, which were patented in 1794;
part of thena were surveyed in 17 8,1. The traiTi
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to Vater carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Walhingtou, from 14 to 16 from the
vilhg:? of Grcenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment ot one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reafonalle credit will be given for the reii
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2f. §
iO BE SOLD,
126,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of Sew Yock, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the town (hips of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, from their quality and situation,
are a very desirable objedt for any man who means
to invefl his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will * e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Prinaer.
April 2 1 ■
A few boxes of Umbrellas
To be Sold cheap—-by
Mordcsai Lewis.
may 17 2W
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. jo, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppolite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on filk-s for Military and ether or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelf) durable, net to be injured by the weather,
•which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of
colouring, Deatnefs and malterly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS arid DRUMS
Ftirnlfhed with all peflilile dispatch, on the mofl:
rcafonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
«t», Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist mailer of hi* profeffion.
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeflional talents, pun&tsaKty, and reason
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wi I please to call at his Paint
ng Rooms. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
Country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a materly manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind cant ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf-
Sattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both patties One view will lat if
fy them where the superiority lies.—save the spoil
ing of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
dfl'cover the requisites for the contracting talents
<yf-Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may 10.
This Day Publijhed ;
By J. 0 II M R 0 D,
No. 4T, Chefnut-ftreet, (price 25 cents).
A SERMON Preached in Christ Church and
St. Peter's, Philadelphia ; on Wednesday
May 9, 1798, being the day appointed by
the President as a day of failing, humiliation
and prayer, throughout the United States of
North America. By James Abercrombie, a.m.
one of the aHi it ant miniflers of Christ Church
and St. Peter's.
*** A sermon delivered by the Rev. Doc.
Creen, on the fame occasion, will be published
on Monday next.
raay 18 3 f
~ LANDING,
From onboard the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 caniiters SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAP AN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April 17. §
GOODS
Forwarded to B A L T I M 0 R E,
OVER. 1. A N I),
Via Elkton, on reasonable terms—by
Levi Hollingj'worth iff Son.
may 14 eoi6t
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
PHILADELPHIATUESDAY EVENING, MAT 22, 1798.
For Sale, or Charter,
J~THE ARMED SHIP A
B E LV ID ERE,
JnpjATKAN Reynolds, Mjfler,
LYING at JefTeand Robert Wain's
wharf, burthen 2156 tons, built at
New-York, by Mr. Cheefeman in 1793, of live
oak, cedar and locufl—was completely coppered in
London last year with 28 ounce hard rolled navy It
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a (launch and fad failing (hip, is well fbund—
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to fcain
a few lays at a very little expence. For terms of c>
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board j(
to caf>t. Reynold's or at the Merchant's Coffee-
Howfe, to Yi
RICHARD D. ARDEIf. \
WHOHAS FOR SALE ON BOARD SAID SHUP
10 Tons dry white lead F
5 Tonsof (hot
13 Tons rolled (heet bad C
20 Bales Englifii Duck, aflorted numbers r
10 Tons whiting 3
may 19 §
JUST ARRIVED, c
In the brigGayofo.capt.Bingham,fromSt.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality c
A few groce Porter Bottles, new a
And twenty ca(ks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of a
Jehu Hollingfwortb & Co.
No. n, Little Water ftraet, South. £
aprii ao. y
FOR SALE.
*9S boxe? white) Havannah Sugar 1
107 do. brown 3 0
aoo Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Adtive, Will
iam Williams, mailer.
The faidßrigforl'ale,
And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co. j
march 30. §_ 1
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- ;
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails afiortcci
10 biles of fail canvass, from No. i to 8
5 3 calks yellow ochre
15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each
London particular ) Ma deira Wines
India market )
Tenenffe do. in hogsheads and pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottlss
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinets &c.
alforted for the WeO-Indi» market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink stands and prefTes
20 puncheons Jamaica rum
1 bale seaming twine
160 bundles (heathing paper
A M 1 A Z 0 N,
r Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin. y Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
THIRTY DOLLARS REWARD.
Stolen Laji Night,
OUT of the pasture of the Subferiber, living
in Datby, Delaware c»unty» a Bay HorJe
about sixteen hands high, fix years old this
spring, (hod before, thin main and l'witch tail,
a small star in his forehead, hind feet white, has
a remakable fear on his near (houlder ocealioned
by a fcaid or burn, on which the hair is thin and
short, he carries well, trots and canters, i 9 ?pt
to ft art when rode. Whoever takes up said
horse and thief, (hall have the above reward, or
fifteen dollars for the horse only and reasonable
charge#. Nathaniel Rewlin.
sth month, 17 e°djt
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SILK—-it
George Rutter Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure ihe hard(hips of the
weather without injury, and which for neatness
and exadiitude of colouring cannot be surpassed in
this city.
ELAGS and DRUMS
Furniflied with dispatch, on th« mofl moderate
terms.
1 Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
> (ire buckets, &c. accompiithed in that superb stile
i of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntrer fledges
. himfelf from 20 years experience* iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of his friends and the
- public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
s Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library.
may 3 *^w
~ NOTICE.
! TTAVING observed an advertifemert of C.
; ll Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of our pro
, sessional abilities, we have to request the public
f not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits of each by a comparison ol
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
1 universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents ©f eftablilhed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrossing that business which
their profeflional knowledge in r.o wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mud
govern, we flatter ourselves that the wor* execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
' trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thenecef
(ity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to thi
felf-flattering advertisements of Mr G.
7 Any person wishing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. Norris' Court, or Henry Frailey, GermaE
town. §6w may 8.
~ J?OR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
goon coachman, an excellent waitsr, and
has been accustomed to marketing for a family—
his age about thirty two year=. For fu ther parti
culars, apply at the officethis Gazette,
may Ij. §
Will be fold for Cast,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of June next, # *t the M«r-' 1
chants' Coffee house. in Philadelphia, if 1
not previously disposed of at pri- tl
vate saLe,
THE FOLLOWINC TRACTS OF f c
Valuable patented LAND, v
In the county of Glynn, in the (late of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in ihe
(late of Virginia, * ,r
7003 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and t€
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the commoni of the town of Brunfwick. tl
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head v
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of p
Wm.M'lntofli, JohnHowell, O'Neal. e<
25000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of d
Freeman Lewis and John Howell. d
44000 acres in Bath county, on both fides of ai
Green Briar River, adjoining lands ol Jaceb War
rick, Daniel M'Cullum and John Dilley, including
3000 acres of prior furvcys.
41000 acres in Bath county, qn the eafl fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm springs to Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson, I s
and including 4588 acres prior surveys. it
30000 acres in Bath county, on th.: east fide of 1
Cowpafture River, on the waters of said river, and (1
of Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and inclupijig S°°° acres P rior surveys. j-
The Georgia lands will be fold in tracts of one a
; thou fan d acres each, the others in the quantities
and trails abovs described.
| Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts j
I of the above mentioned land, will call for that
I purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41, ,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to cither of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS, 1
No. —, Chefnut street. 3
B.R.MORGAN, c
No. 41, Arch street. f
JEREMIAH PARKER, I
No. 9, Horth Eighth street. t
may T4. *
Real Estate for Salo. \
AT the Merchant's Coffee House on Monday
evening the twenty-firft instant, will be J
fold pursuant to an order form the Orphan',
Court. A three (lory Brick House, twenty-four
feet frpnt on Great Dock-street ind forty-two
feet deep ; together with the Lot twenty four
feet by eighty-two feet deep, now in the tenure
of Edward Pole, being part of the estate late of .
Rev. Gilbert 1 .Snowden deceased. Tke term,s |
will be made known at the time of Sal«, by
Isaac Snowden, Admniftrator.
Edward Pole, Auftioneer.
may diodeots
~ ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chancellor* will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
rhe firft Friday next, part of a tra<sl of
Land called STRUGGLE, lying in Worcester coun
ty, and all the reft of the Real Estate oi Joftiua
Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine months credit for the one
half of the purchase money, and fifteen .months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcha
sers giving bond with security for the fame, on in
tereft, from the day of sale.—All creditors of the
fa»d Joshua Townfend are also again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the aid
day of December lad, that being the day of the
firft sale.
WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Trustee.
may 14. §3 W
FOR SALE,
About 660 boxes of fine Spanish
GUN POWDER,
Containing 150 lbs. each.
Apply at No. 13, corner of Arch and Front streets.
may 12. §tw
VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front-Jlreet.
have For salk,
50 Hogsheads Virginia Tobacco, of Frederickf
burg and Falmouth Infpe^ions.
30 Hogsheads ditto of Richmond infpfiSlion.
may 8. eod6t
For Sale,
BYTHE SUSSCRrBER, NO 10, CHISMU 1 STREET,
11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on reasonable terms on a fiior
credit.
Robert lienderfon.
April % mwoCS4W
! Notice is hereby Given,
1 r T~*H AT application has been made at the Bank of
JL th« United State*, for the renewal of the sol
: lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
capture of the British Packet, Coantef. of Leicef
ter —viz.
r No..l7o»,containingslhares7 IlTued to Henry Ca
f 3703 5 do. j zenove Nephew ScCo
73z I do. ifTued to Edwerds
and Co.
3188 5 do. iflued (in lieu of
6509 to 6513) to Samuel and Henry '.Vaddington.
zjzß 4 do. iiTued to Phyn, El
lice and Ingiis.
AU persons concerned are therefore called upon
" to (hew cause why new Certificates should nojjbc
c ilfued agreeably to the said application.
1 april 14 eo6w
1 Furnished Chambers—loLet.
THOSE Gentlemen, Members of Congress and
others, wilhing to engage for the next feflion
of Congress, Chambers, fnrnifhed in a modern
flyle, and in a very pleasant and central part of
the city, may hear of them by applying at the
office of this Gazette. eeiw may 10
FOR SALE.
l- A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
J\ fide of Spruce-street near Second-flrcet,
- adjoining the wall ©f Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, tfq.—This
houfe is incompleat repair with back buildings,
d confiding of a Piazza, Kitchen and a handsome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
_ As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the preroifes,a rr.iore particular description iscon
ftdered unneceflary.
a The terms of payment will be one third ca(h,
j one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
_ months with interest. For further information,
i- Enquire of JOHN CHAIG>
No, 12 Dock'Jlreei.
may iS }
Bank of the United States,
Majisth, 1798.
NOTICE is hereby given, that previous to "
the renewal of Certificates for Shares of S1
this Bank, which may be loft or destroyed, it g,
will be required iu future, that a particular de- 1^
fcription of the original certificates should be ad- n
vertifed twice a week for three months in the
Newspaper called " The Gazette of the United "
11 States & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser"
informing of the loss or deftrudlion, and the in
tention of the party to apply for a renewal.
In fix calendar months after the expiration of
the advertising as above* the New Certificates a
will be iflued tipon the elaimants producing t<
proof of their having been advertised as requir- tl
ed, together with the testimony of the loss or I
deftru(slion, and giving the usual security to in- o
deirnify the dank against any injury which may
arise from the renewal. Is
By Order of the Directors, v
G. SIMPSON, Cajlmr. n
may iaw6w a
Military Academv. t!
THE Public are mod refpctfifully informed, 1
that a Military Academy is opened in the
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong- e
ing to John Mailers, esq. between the German- 1
Town and Frankfort roads, North Second- c
street continued 1
By JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 60th British regiment of Foot and
afiiftant Engineer te the Army a&ing in the
Weft-Indies. j
Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
Exercise and made completely acquainted with
all the duties of officers, non-commifiioned of- *
1 ficers and private soldiers in camp, garrison and
Quarters - f the forms of regimental and field re
turns, detachments, rollers &c. &c also the
art of drawing plans, fe£tions and geometrical
elevations, the elements of tactics, gu?»ery and »
fortificatiom. —A fubfeription lift is left at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
the outlines of the proposed regulations may be
seen. The situation is extremely well adapted
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are
set apart for the purpose.
N. W. Gentlemen from th« Country boarded
ia. the house if required.
may 10. diwaawim
TO V>E RENTED,
To a Small Genteel Family.
A Pleasant House in Dock-ftrect, near Front
ftreet —Apply at No. 15s South Second-
Street. § may 17
OX BEEF.
100 Barrels ) of Beef of b«fl quality, put
50half Barrels ) up with carefor longvoyagus.
ico Barrels of Connecticut Pork.
5® Barrels of Conne<Slicut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half calks of Sherry
30 Casks of Lisbon
300 Caf«s of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
ao Boxes of best Durham Mustard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger's Wharf.
may 4 eodtf
A Country Seat.
TO BE LET for the fummcr season or by the
year, the greater part of a large House, in
a high, healthy situation, above the eight mile
(lone, on the Germantown road (occupied only by
a newly married couple)—with llablingand con
venience for keeping a carriage. For further par
ticulars, enquire of Caspar W Haines, in Ger
mantown, or the fubferiber, on the premises.
HEZEKIAH HUNTSMAN.
may I. -nw 3w
iSalkenridge—lor lale
IT consists of 920 acres, almofl all of which is J
a fine rich Meadow, (the rcfidentc of the late |
Ecrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded 011 the
East by the river Puf.uck.
Thnr«* are 011 it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one.andja fmaliexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confills of 150 c fin?bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pnrts of said
trad near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a gre*t
variety orf other fruits, particularly Chen ies of the
befl and mofl delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeflTre&s, that add to th« beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about x 8 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
. from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
; in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefuut treet.
" February 2. eodtf
s For Sale,
f A Farm and CouNmr Seat,
SITUATED on the well fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norris-town, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contains 195 metes of land, 50
n of which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, and
the tc(l arable land. The house and garden which is
C large and well paled, (land in the moil pleasant situ
ation, commanding a view of fho river, an i(land
which isoppofite, and the village of Norris-town—
There is a shad lifhery belonging to the place.—En
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
3 or on the premises. ;
n april 16 "wtf ;
It Cedar Polls, Rails and Shingles
e FOR SALE.
THEY will be delivered to any place in Mary
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New-
York, where boats drawing fix tett water can go
lrom this place. It will often suit the feller to
receive in return corn, provisions, wet or dry
goods. Letters dire&ed to the fubferiber at this
' s place, and put into any pod office in the United
'' States, will be regularly received and care£«lly at
e tended to. Those who with to contra& in Phila
delphia, will please to apply to G*d»on Hill
f Wklls, No. 135, Marlcet-ftreot. The fubferiber
1- i s desirous of contra&ing with fom« responsible
person in Philadelphia, to receive and difpofc of for
1, him, on commifiion, a quantity of two feet Shin
-2 gle*, for home use, and of two feet and eighteen
i, inches, for exportation.
William Hill Wells,
Dagfborowgh, Hate of Delaware,
april 28. * " ✓ WW4W
[lVolume XJII.
Doctor Sheed,
WHO formerly lived in Carter's Alley, is re
queued to call at the House of Mr. Van
skiver, in Race Street, between Ninth and Tenth
Street, where he will hear of a person who earnest
ly begs his assistance in a cafe of a very dangerous
nature.
may 21 §
Cavalry Academy Philadelphia.
TSWANN, Refpe&fully informs the dlf
• ferent troops of Light Horse in this city
and county that he is ready to engage with them
to discipline themfel'ves a«id Horfts agreeable toi
the ftridteft rules of art ; his manege, openridiet
Leaping Barr, Stables &c. &c. are in compiito
order.
The terms will be exceeding low. Should a
large number offer, the charge to each indiviriua
will be a mere nothing, though the quantity
may mike it worth his attention, which will at
all times ftri&ly be paid : *nd he flatters him
felf that such troops aVhe may have the honor
to ir.ilrudl or superintend, will amply speak for
themselves, having proof for their evidence.
N. B. T. SIV'ANN has er.gsged the celebrat
ed Prtfian Huzar% Lewis D. Gvi'JJe, to teach
the ul'e of the Broad Sword and fmali arms, on
easy terms, either by the week, month or quar
ter.
may 21 d3t
Very Great Bargains,
CONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muffins, flow felling off and well
worth the attention of Koufckeepers to niak<s
purchase of Enquire of
Ihomas Randall
No. 88 Sptu&Jlreet*
may 17 $ 4
For Sale,
Thecargo of thehrig American from Lagu ira,
CONSIST,n\'C OF
Caraccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. 112, South Fourth Street,
april 23
Majfacbufetts Dijlrift.
By Order of the Honorable John Lowell,
Esquire, Jeidge of the Diltridft Court for
the Maflachufetts DittrieT,
*' ~\jOTICE is hereby given to all perfon.s
.IN concerned," That a Libel is filed in said
Court by Christian O Grutzmicher, lat« Com
mander of the (hip Corona, of and from Ham
burgh, and Henry Andrew Hems as agents lor'
the owners of said Ship, against sundry goods,
wares and merchandize, saved from said ftiip
Corona, wrecked on Cape Cod within said Dif
tridl 01a the 16th March last—which goods,
wares and merchandize, were consigned to di
vers perfonsin Ph'ladelphia, in the Dtftritfl of
Pennsylvania, and clfewhere—and that said Li
bel i§ filed as aforefaid, for the freight said to be
due t« the Libellants on said goods, wares awd
merchandize, aßd for necessary expences paid
by them which have arisen upon the fame—•
And that trial will be had upon the afoxelaid
Libel at a Diftritft Court t® be holden at the
Court-House in Boflon, on Monday the eigh
teenth day of June next, at 11 o'clock, 4- M.
SAMUEL BRADFORD,
" Marjhal of Majfacbufctts^ 1
Dated at Bofon y dpril ) tawtf
23//, 1798. V
FOR SALE,
whole or ons half of a PLANTATION
_L on the river Delaware, between Burlington
and Bordenton (two miles from the latter), con
taining about 400 acres ; 60 of winch are bottom;
meadow, and 100 wood land ; there are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (exclusive of mea
dow) but will exceed 50 the next ; and any quan
tity of manure may be had for the upland from the"
meacow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hoglheads of excellent cider ; a dwelling
j house with a barn, flable, granary and other re
| cefTary buil ing* go with one part in cafe of a di
! vilion ; on the other are no improvements, but has
j one of the rood elegant situations for a hcufe to be
' seen on the river, l'he land is of good
suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
to market by land or water. For terms apply to
the owner on the premises.
Thomas St- John.
May 5 eodtf
Germantown and Reading Turn
pike Road Company.
: r T~'HE Subscribers Commiflioners appointed by
1 an A& of Afiembly of this Commonwealth
I entitled, "An afl to enable the Governor of this
■ Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for
> making an Artificial Road from the city of Ph -
• ladelphia, through Germantown, by the rout
' ofChcfnut Hill, to the twelve mile (tone on
the Heading Road, «r.d thence to Reading in the
: county of Berks," hereby give notice, that books
" are provided as the law diredls, and that we
will proceed to receive fnbfcriptions for the com
' pany's flock on the 28th, 19th, and cth days
- of May next, at the City Hall in the city of
Philadelphia,at the Tavern of Buchois,
in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob firrr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, Bi.d at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
Oie county of Montgomery, cn the fame days,
j from ten o'clock in the morning, until two o'
, clock,P. M- en each day, when and where cer
tain of the Commiflioners will attend to receive
1 fubfcription3 accordingly
april 14th, 179 &
BENJAMIN.CHEW, jun.
CASPAR W.HAINES,
SAMUEL BET 1 ON,
GEORGE LOGAN.
5 JOHN FROMBERGER,
ISAAC FRANKS, '
JOS HEISTER,
J. BOWER,
o DANIEL ROSE,
o SAMUEL LAVERTY,
r GEORGE DOUGLASS,jurt.
s ABRAHAM LINCOLN,
d N. B. Fifteen Dollars to be paid on each
(hare at the time of fubferibing.
April 17 —eodt'joM
L r W. M. Biddle,
le RESPECTFULLY informs the l'ablic, that ht
■r has removed to No. 147, Chcfnut Street, where he
-- rropofes to carry on the business of
n - A BROKER.
He will procure patents; or tranfaA any other
bufinef. in the Land Office of this fete, for a mode--
rate comniillio*.
may >4 e ""'CON~GRBSS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FmiMY MAY 4
Delate on granting leave to Mr. Plnchntj to
receive certain presents.
(Comtudedfrom Saturday's Gazette )
Mr. Rutledge said, that being clofcly
in the bonds of friendfhfp with
h>4 colleague who made the present applica
tion, he did not intend to have said a word
upon the fubjeft ; but when he heard things
of a personal nature introduced into the de
bate, he eould not avoid rising.. And with
due fubmiflion to the chair, he must fay,
that every thing of a personal nature, intro
duced on this occasion, was, in his opinion,
wholly nut of order; particularly when it
was said by a rnemb. r, " if the gentleman
from South-Carolina is not fatisfied with
what he has received for his services, I am
willing to pay him more." The constitu
tion has said, th it the customary presents
from European c nrts fhull not be received,
without the consent of Congress, and ac
cordingly when these presents were offered
his colleague at the two courts of which he
was minilter, he declined receiving them,
faying that he would lay the matter before
Congress on his return home. He had done
so, and he could not fee any ground of alarm
in this. He felt none of that republican
jealousy which his mind to revolt at
these civilities. He rose, if poffihle, to dis
sipate those ideas of danger which seemed
to be apprehended from the adoption of the
present resolution ; the apprehension that it
would break down tht barriers which were
to keep nut corruption from our govern
ment ; and introduce a variety of evils. The
gentleman from Tenneflee had ftatedaftrong
cafe. He had fuppofrd that to allow ihele
presents, might, at some future day, en
courage some person to come forward and
ask permit Tim to receive a title from a
foreign country. Ar dif this fnould be the
cafe, he fe. med to think tVie liberty of the
conntry would be at an end But did not
that gentleman know that the United States
have already given leave to a citizen of this
country ro wear a ribbon and accept of a
title from a foreign power ; but it was a
l'olftary cafe, and lie believed it would fortver
rcm:iiii 10, as he had never heard that this
of aiftincUon excited any thing but
ridicule from his fellow-citizens.
Mr. Claiborne wished to know who the
individual wa .
Mr. R. answered, it was the cafe of the
Chevalier } hn aul Jones to whom he al
luded. The tr.v;fa&ion took place under
the old confedera'ion, which exprefslv pro
hibited titles. But the king of France,
wiAjing to confer some mark of diftin&ion
on Jones for hi- bravery, wrote to his mi-
Viifter here, and he applied to Congress us>on
th\: business and leave was granted to him
to i'eceive the Cross of Military Merit. This
happened in the year 1781. Mr- R. having
afeertained thus far from the Journals
hoped no uneasiness would be entertained on
the ground of danger from titles.
Mr. Harper did not wish to protraft the
debate, but he could not help noticing a
few circtimftp.nces which had given some
gentlemen alarm. He was sensible that
every personal feeling was in favor of the
request ; he therefore viewed with refpeft
that rigid adherence to principle, which had
produced the mistake which their zeal had'
led them into. Gentlemen talked as if none
but royal governments make these presents.
Were they to be informed that every re
public iri Europe, which was in the habit i
of receiving rr.inifters, was also in the habit
of making these presents ? Belides, could it
be believed that if a minillet abroad were to
receive presents, by way of bribes, he
would ever lay them before his government ?
Certainly not ; he would be silent with re
fpeft to any such bribe. Corruption flows
th-ough far different channels from those
which had been mentioned—it flows thro'
the hands of bankers and other agents, not
by means of oftenfibb and customary pre
sents. Andhebelieved ifcorruption had never
flowed in any other way thao this, we fhculd
never have heard of douceurs of 50,0001.
sterling, or of ambaffado s being imprisoned j
in order to extort money from them.
What objeftion, then, is there to allow
ing eur minister? to receive these presents :
It was said we fhou'id be under the ncceffity
of returning them to the ministers of other
countries. In the fame way as when a gen
tleman accepts of an invitation to dinner, he
mull return the compliment by alldng his
friend again. Admitting this to be the
cafe, what then ? Suppose the United
States receive twenty different foreign mi
nisters, and that they are chang-ed every two
years. Th'i would amount to ten presents
a year ; and if we gave a present equal to
that given by the republic of Holland, he
supposed it would be thought very hand
some. They gave a gold chain and med.il,
he supposed about the value of forty Eagles
a year. He did not think this would be
alarming, or any way endanger the liberties
of the country. On the contrary, he be
lieved, the good will which was produced by
this interchange of civility between nations
woi:ld be cheaply purehafed for thirty or
forty EagUs a year. They all knew the
advantages of reciprocal civility in private
life, and it was still more necefl'ary in go
vernments and nations. Have we not, said
he, seen a want of attention to these little
things, alledged as a cause of quarrels and
war ? This hr.d frequently been seen. It
was good policy, therefore, to cherish a
good underltanding with nations, by falling
into their customs, especially when it could
be done without much expence or incon
venience.
Mr. Macon complained of the gentleman
from S. Carolina (Mr. Rutledge) having
censured the chair, without cauie.
Mr. R. Williams denied iiaving said any
thing of a personal nature ; and as to con
inming time in debate, he tock no part in
1" it, until the gfntlemar from Delaware haJ
himfelf made two or three fp cches.
I Mr. Gallatin said this question might be
I confidereel either as ot a personal, or of a
j general' nature. He had heard gentlemen
j arguing both in fuppurt <>f and against the
i refutation', speak of the important services
i rendered by the gentleman from S. Carolina
I in havingaccomplifhedrhetreaty with Spain,
i Nor did he conceive this to be out of order.
He believed however, the gentleman himfelf
was perfectly indifferent as to the fate of the
I question.
I Mr. G. had some doubt with refpeft to
I the conftrnfiion of the coiiftitutioii on this
point. If he was well acquainted with the
fa CI relative to this business, it ftoed in this
way. When Mr. Pincktiey was'fent as en
voy Extraordinary to Spain, he Hill remain
ed Minister Plenipotentiary at the court of
Great-Brilai'n, therefore he was allogether
precluded from accepting of the prefect of
fered to him by the Spanish Government on
his taking leave from that court; but with
refpeft to the present offered to him by
Great-Britain, it appeared him that the mo
ment a minifterreceiveshisletlersofrec.il,
and has taken his leave, he is no longer an
officer of the government ; and in such cafe
both under the present constitution, and un
der the old confederation, presents have been
receive So far, therefore, as relates to
Gieat-Britain, he did not thiuk it was ne
ceifary to apply to Congress for their con
sent.
He had said, that after a minister has re
ceived his letters of recal, there was nothing
to prevent him from accepting a present.
He might be told the constitution is lame in
that refpeft ; but it was more so with ref
peft to private citizens ; because any private
citizen might receive either presents or ti
tles from a foreign power. It has not, there
fore, effeftually (hut out corruption. Offi
cers may receive presents by consent of Cori
grefs ; but any officer or member of Con
gress, might aecept of presents, either in
'lecrecy, or wait till they are eut of office
and then receive them publicly. Nothing
could prevent this, but the infamy that
wc.uld attach to such an aft. Therefore, so
far as it was contended that a disagreement
to this resolution would (hut out a lonrce of
co ruption, it had.little effeft upon his mind.
But there was another point of view oil
this fubjeft, which would induce him to
give his vote agahft the resolution. He • 011-
fidered that if Congress gave its afl'ent to
this propofitioß, it would be faying chat
they approve of the aft, and that it is in it
fclf proper that a foreign minister (hould re
ceive these presents. If it was in their o
pinion proper to accept of these presents,
the resolution would be affirmed ; but if
they were ®f opinion that the praftice is a
bad one ; that it is useless in itfelf, and
ought to cease, they had nothing to do but
refufe to authorize it. He owned it was
proper to keep up civilities, when it could
be done by conforming to customs of an in
offenfive nature ; but when the constitution
flood in the way it ought always to be ref
pefted.
He had another reason for voting against
this resolution. He had already laid that,
if a mai was not an officer of the United
States, he had a right to receive these pre
sents. A question arose whether the gen
tleman from S. Carolina had a right now to
receive them ? He believed he was preclu
ded, not only by their being offered as a re
ward to a Minister, but from his being a
Member of Congress, for he did not believe
that permission could legally be granted to
any member of Congress to receive such
presents ; and therefore that the resolution
ought not to be agreed to-
I he question on the resolution was put
3nd negatived 44 to 38.
The committee then rose and reported
their disagreement to the resolution of the
Senate ; when the question was taken on
concurring with the committee of the whole
in their disagreement, by yeas and nays as
follow :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Baer, Baird, Bartlett, Benton,
Blount, Brent, Bryan, Bullock, Burgess,
1. Claiborne, W. C. Cjaiborne, Clopton,
Davis, Dawfon, Dennis, Dent, Elmen
dorf, Evans, Fowler, Findley, Gallatin,
Gillefpie, Hanna, Harrifon, Havens,
Heider, Jones, Locke, Lyon, Machir,
M'Clenachan, M Dowell, Milledge, New, |
J. Parker, Schureman, Skinner, W. Smith,
S P n 'gg> Stanford, Sumter, Tillinghaft, A.
J' Trigg, V. Cortlandt, Varnum,
Veuab'e, R. Williams.—4B.
N A r S.
MefTrs. Allen, Baldwin, BnyarJ, Brooks,
Chapman, Dana, Edmond, A. Foster, D.
Foster, J. Freeman, Glen, Goodrich, Grif
wold, Grove, Harper, Hindman, Holmes,
Hofmer, Imlay, Lyman, Matthews, Mor
gan, Morris, Otis, Rutledge, Sewall, Sin
nickfon, Sitgreaves, N- Smith, S. Smith, j
Thatcher, Thomas, Thcmpfon, Van Alen,
Wadfworth, J. Williams. —37.
A message was received from the Pre
, fident of the United States, communicating
the last difpatches(viz to the 7th «f Feb.)
received from our minister', which were or
dered to be printed without being read. The
President alio informed the house, that he
had approved and signed the aft authori
zing certain officers and others, to admini
ster oaths ; an aft for the further defence of
the ports and harbours of the United States;
an aft for providing cannon, arms and am
munition. and an aft for the relief of Oba
diah Brown.
Mr- Sewall, from the committee for the
proteftion of commerce aad the defence of
the country, made a report on the bill frsm
the Senate aujhorifing the President to raise
a Provifioiial Army, which was committed.
Mr. Harper said, that having observed
some embarrafTment in the laws eftabliftiing
the Executive Departments, more especial
ly as it refpefts the War Department a ve
ry conliderable proportion of the-bufinefs of
which is done in the Treasury Department
being made an Agent to the War Depart
ment In paying ?nd receiving rfloney ; so
that one department makes theexpence, and
another is responsible tor it. He wifoed,
therefore, to fee if some better arrangement
could not be made in this business, and for
this pupofe, proposed a resolution to the
following effe& :
" Reioh-ed, that a committee beappoin- :
ted to enquire and report, by bill or other
wise, whether any and what alterations are
necefTary in the various A&s establishing the
ExecHtive departments, so far as relates to
the manner of disbursing the money appro
priated for each, and the fettling »f their
accounts "
Agreed and a committee of hree mem
bers appointed. Adjourned.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H ) April 28.
The following Patriotic address, is now
in circulation in this -town. It has already
acquired a very refpe&anfe number of sig
ners.—Copies of it are now deposited at
MefTrs. Melcher's, Larkin's & Peirce's ref
prdlive Bookflores, and at the Poft-ofnce—
There cannot be the least doubt but that
every true American vrill add his name to
the Lift.
to
JOHN ADAMS, President, and to the
Congress of the United States
THE Subscribers, Inhabitants of the
Town ofPortfmputh, State of New-Hamp
shire, conceiving the present moment, to be
one of. those critical periods, when political
necefiity calls aloud for the Public Voice to
Advocate the measures of its own Govern
ment, andcheerfuily to offer the SUPREME
EXECUTIVE, and the CONGRESS
of the UNION, the molt determinedly?
unequivocal support, in maintaining mea
sures that have been, or may be adopted for
the INTEREST, HONOUR and INDE
PENDENCE ot the UNITED
STATES, They therefore beg leave to
express thtir high sense and approbation of
the wifd«m and Probity which have cha
ra&erifed the various efforts of our Execu
tive, for effe&ing a Peimanent RoconcihV
tion with France ; ai»d finding that the
Dire&ory has endeavoured to impose such
terms as cannot be accepted without the
vilest prostration of National Interejl, Ho
nour and Independence : They, therefore,,
offer their property to support, and their
LIVJiS to DEFEND, those dear-Bought,
Sacred & Inalienable Rights ; being fully re—
solved to raly round the banners of their coun
try and follow the Itandard of Government,
making every possible effort to Convin c e
the WORLD, and more especially the
unfriendly powers of Europe, that they arc
not the divided people they have been Re
presented to be, neither will they be the
SLAVES nor DUPES of any nation up
on the F.ice of the GLOBE !
of the Accounts
of the Society for the relief of poor, aged and
ißfirm Matters of Ships, their Widows and Chil
dren, being a summary of the receipts and payments
from 43d June, 1797, to r6th May, 1798, as fettled
by a Committee of the Society, fpeeially appointed
for that purpose.
CASH. DR. Dols. Cts..
To balance in the Treasurer's hairtls, 23d
June, 1798 - - 1,921. 24
quarterly payments and fines received 361. 01
donations received at the Philadelphia
poft-office - - 288. 62
ditto from the executors of William
Heylham's eft te - 26. 67
fubfeript ons received from new mem
bers - 26c.
interest on the stock of the U. States
received - • 501. 22
bank dividends received - 480.
money on ii*ereft paid in * - 266. 6 ;
interest on money lent, and arrearages
of ditto received , * 372 44
Dollars 4,4 78. 44
SUPRA CR.
By charities paid to sundry persons * 1,313.
managers' orders paid on account of
capital stock - 100. 45
paid for room hire and wafers - 4.
four (hares in the bank of U. States 2,©2 i. 04
one do. in the bank of Pennsylvania 492.
balance remaining in the treasurer's
hands - - - 548. 09
Dollars 4,478. 44
Capital Stock of the Society—viz.
Amount of private bonds, 1720 dollars.
4,635* 91 dels. 6 per cent, stock of the U. States.
1,640. 67 dols. 3 per cent. do. do.
*•767* S7 dols. deferred do. do.
Five ftiares in the bauk of North America.
Six shares in the bank of Pennsylvania.
Four lhares in the bank of the United States.
Four shares in the Philadelphia and Lancaster turn
pike road—and part of jhe above balance in the
treasurer's hands on account of capital stock, fay
21. 80 dollars. WM. JONES, Treasurer,
Philadelphia, 16th May, 1798. 2t
Collector's Office,
Philadelphia, May 1?, 1798.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Custom-House, on Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the fallowing mer
chandize, which remain in the Cultom-Houfe
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XH) eight half faggots of steel
(TD) 201 one bale pirthweb
(FL) a quantity of steel
w£ p one cafe lamps
C&C one cafe bobbin
(W) one small box medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C onq keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons
1 a. 3 three bales girthwab
[VH] 200 one ditto ditto
i N] 200 one ditto ditto
(No mark) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle slates
[LSJ one small box locks
t
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Ba*k of Peanfylva
nia, for such Plan of a Banking House,
accompanied with and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Dire&or?. The building is
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or 100 feet
in depth, and to be 1b planned as to admit of its
being made fire proof. It is requested that the
plans may be feiu to the Cashier of the Bank, pre
vious to the firft of June next,
april 19. tuthstije
%\)t Gazette.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING,Max 18.
CONGRESS.
Yetferdav, the Honfe of Representatives of
the; United Stares were engaged in difculfing
the bill supplementary to, and to amend the
for eftabl fhing an uniform rule of Natura
lization, and to repeal the aft heretofore pasT
ed, —which, after Come difcuflion and sundry
amendments, was agreed to, and ordered to
be read a third time to-day. This bill pro
vides that Aliens shall, in future, reside four
teen years in the United States, and give
five years notice of their intention of becom
ing citizens, before they shall be entitled to
citizenihip. An amendment was introduced
by Mr. Gallatin, and carried, excluding
from the operation of this law, those who
were in this country before the pafling of the
law of January, 1795, but who have neglect
ed to become citizens, and those who have
come fihce that time who have given notice
of their intention of becoming citizens, agree
ably to the directions ot that law, provided
the former do it within one year, and the lat
ter within four years from the passing of this
act. All aliens who continue to reside, or
who shall hereafter arrive in this country, (hall
be reported to the Diftriit Court of the Djf
tricl, in all cases of residence within fix months
after the pailtng of this aft ; and in all cases
of arrival, within forty eight hours after the
person's arrival.—Aliens, who are fubjecls or
citizens of a country with whom the United
States are at war, are excluded from citizen
ihip altogether.
To JOHN ADAM 3,
President of the United States.
AT a period so intcrefting as the prefenr,
when a foreign nation, regardltfs of the
diftatcs of religion, morality and good faith,
invad s our rights, plunders our property,
infuhs onr government, threatens our inde
pendence, reprefems us as a divided people,
and fpurnscveryreafonalilcefFort to a friend
ly accommodation ; we, the Grand Jury of
Queen Ann's county, in the state of Ma
ryland, c nceiving it of importance that the
citizens of the United States should express
the general sentiment and aft with firmnefs,
prefer this address to you, Sir, to aflure '
you, with the utmost truth and sincerity, |
, that we moll cordially approve the measures
you have pursued, fer a continuance of the '
bleflings of peace, and to avoid the horrors
of war ; that we have a full confidence in the
wisdom. integrity and patriotism of our
Executive, and other conllitutional Autho
rities ; and that, trulling in Divine Provi
dence, we will, at every hazard and in every
event, support and defend the Government,
Religion, Laws and Freedom of oOr country.
Centre Ville, May Term, 1798.
ANSWER.
To the Grand Jury of Queen Sinn's County,
in the State of Maryland.
GENTLEMEN,
I THANK you for the assurances in
your address of approbation of the measures
of Government, of your confidence in its
Wisdom, Integrity and Patriotism, and
that, trusting in Divine Providence, you
will, at every hazard and in every event,
; support and defend the Government, Reli-
I gion, Laws and Freedom of your country.
JOHN ADAMS.
At a meeting of the Stsdents of the Col
lege of New-Jersey, held on Tuesday,
May 15th, 1798, for the purpose of
expressing their confidence in the consti
tuted authorities of their country,
Josiah Watson, jun. was oiiofen Chair
man, and
j Theodore Foster Talbot, Secretary,
The following Address was unanimously
agreed to :
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
Sir,
THE Students of the College of New-
Jersey, awfully imprefled by the threatening
1 clouds which obfeure our political horizon,
and well aware of the importance of united
and vigorous exertion, would offer their
feeble, though hearty concurrence, in ap
plauding your administration, and support
ing the energy of government.
We deem it the duty of every American,
attached to the freedom and independence of
his country, to oppose the aggrefllons of
foreign power ; nor is it less incumbent on
those who, though young in years and wil
dorn, anticipate a period, when they (hall
be admitted to the privilege of citizenihip,
zealously to defend their precious inherit
ance. We hope to manifeft to the world,
when the rules of onr inllitution will per
mit, that the youth of Nassau will glory in
defending the independence of their fathers.
1 he national honor of our country, we
eftcem of incalculable value —Our lives we
estimate worthy of preservation only as we
enjoy the independence of freemen. We
view, with the ardent resentments of youth,
the encroachments of fore'gn nations on
our rights. We contemplate, with impa
tience, their lawless depredations. In com
mon with our countrymen, we lament the
neceffify of military operations ; yet, urged
upon them involuntarily, we confidently
trust in Heaven, that the result will be fa
vorable to the cause of freedom and huma
nity- Our grief arises not from pufillani
mry ; it is the offspring of love to our
country. Though we dare brave the in
trepid attack of the hostile army, we forefee,
with regret, the multiplied calamities that
mult result from the conflift.
Although but jtift arisen from our cra
dles, when the French nation broke the
sceptre of despotism, we, Sir, in common
with our fathers, caught the flanve of en
thusiasm, at the profpeQ: of a people efl
flaved for ages, by a succession of tyrants,
at onee claiming their indcfeafible rights
and nobly daring to aiTert their freedom.
We fondly hoped, that the fpiri't which
created, would conduft the revolution. In
this hope we have been difappo'cted. We
have seen the French nation laying aMfi
their firft principles of justice, *nd aiming at
universal empire. We have seen them,
not fatisfitd with fubjugatinjj or ravaging
Europe, crof9 the Atlantic, infsltingly
trample on the rights of our neutrality,
and despise the faith of the most solemn
compaSs. We have feci Ministers sent by
our Executive to accommodate differences.
We have seen those Ministers insulted, and
their friendly offers rejefted. At such con
du<ft, we trull, every American feels th«
warmell sentiments of indignation.
We regard it as a Angular mertfy of
Heaven to our country, at this important
crisis, and as one of the surest pledges of
our political security, that you are placed
at the helm of our affairs. We consider it,
at the fame time, as the reward of your
well tried patriotism and unlhakcn firmnefs.
While therefore, Sir, we express our
highest approbation of the condudV of the
Executive of the United States, in the at
tempts to negociate with the French Re
public, we would also, with ardor, and we
trull with the modesty which becomes onr
years, declare our eoofidence in the consti
tuted authorities of our country. The
choice of the people, we know, will
defend their lights and privileges. To us
there appears no mean of averting the ftornr,
hut we declare we are ready to dedicate oqr
lives to fatigues and dargers in braviag it.
May you long continue to ivatch over the
fafety and order of the community, and may
our fell, iv-citizens never cease to teftify
their liveliest gratitude for the eminent ser
vices you have rendered them.
Signed, in behalf of the Students of
the College of New-Jersey,
Charles Eiving,
Jof'ah lVatfvn, jun.
CiiJJius Lee, Committee.
Daniel E- Huger.
Theodore Fojler Talbot,
[Those printers who may inferc the above,
are requested to state, that the meetirgwas
held, and the address agreed to, without
the knowledge or participationof the officers
of the College, j
ANSWER.
To the Students of New-Jersey College.
GENTLEMEN,
I THANK you for your well judged
and well-penned address, whieh has been
transmitted by your Committee, and pre
feuted to me by one of your Senators in
Congress, from New Jersey, Mr. Stockton.
To an high-fpiritcd youth, possessed of
that fclf-refpeA and felf-efteem, which is
inseparable from conscious innocence and
reflitude, whose bodi-s are not enervated
by irregularities of life ; whose minds are
not weakened by diflipation or habits of
luxury ; whose natural fentiment9 are im
prove*. and fortified by classical studies, the
aggrt ffioris of a foreign power mull be dif•
gufting and odious : on these fafts alone, I
could answer for the youth of Nassau, that
they will glory in defending the indepen
dence of their fathers.
The honor of your country, you cannot
estimate too highly; reputation is of as
much importance to nations, in proportion,
as to individuals ; honor is an higher interelt
than reputation ; the ma-, or the nation,
without attachment to reputation o. honor,
is undone :—What is animal life, or na
tion 1 existence, without either ?
The regret with which vow view the en
croachments of foreign nations, the impa
tience with which you contemplate their
lawhfs depredations, are perfealy natural
and do honor to your characters.
If regrets woald avert the necefiity of
military operations, it would be well to in
dulge them ; but, if the entire prosperity
of a state depends upon the difciplire of its
armies, a maxim much refpedled by your
fathers, you may hereafter be convinced
that the cause of your country and of man
kind may be promoted by means, which,
from love to your country and a fear to set
at defiance the laws of nature, you now fee
cause to regret.
Ihe flame of enthnfiafm which you, id
common with your fathers, caught at the
French revolution, co: Id have been enkin
dled only by the innocence of your hearts
and the purity of your intentions. Let me,
however, my amiable and accomplished
young friends, entreat you to study the
history of that revolution ; the hiftcry of
France during the periods of the League
and the Fro»de, and the history of England
from 1640 to 1660. In these studies you
may perhaps find :» solution of your di(ap
pointment in your hopes that the spirit
which created, would conduS the revolu
tion : you may find that the good inten
ded by fair characters, from the beginning,
was defeated by Borgiasand Catalines; that
these fair characters themselves were unex
perienced in freedom, and had very little
reading in the science of government ; that
they were altogether inadequate to the
cause they embraced and the enterprize in
whieh they embarked. You may find that
the moral principles, fanftified and fanaion
ed by religion, are the only bond of union,
the only ground of confidence of the people
in one another, of the people in the go
vernment and the government in the peo
ple. Avarice, ambition, and pleasure, can
never be the foundations of refotmation or
revolutions for the better. These paffioni
have diaated the aim at universal domina
tion, trampled on the rights of neutrality,
drfpifed the faith of solemn conjpaft, in
sulted Ambassadors, and rejeaed offer's of
friendfhip.
It is to me a flattering idea that you
place any of your hopes of political secu
rity in me—mine are placed in your fathers
and you, and my adviee to both is, to pladfe
your confidence, under the favor of Heaven,
in ypurlelves.
Your approbation of the cond»a of go
vernment, and confidence in its authorities,
are very acceptable : If the choice of the
people will not defend their rights, who
will ? To me there appears no mean of
avei ting a storm, and, in my opinion; wctnuft all be re;,dy to dedicate o- ifdves to
fatigues and danger!.
JOHN ADAMS.
» At a numerous and refpeclable meeting of the
Citizens of the Town of Newhero North
Carolina, on the 3d of May, ,h e following
ADDRtSS<»MtP#ESIDENTo/«,6f UNITtn STATES
was uiianimonlly agreed to, and ha> been
prelented by Mr. Martin and Mr. Blood
worth, Senators in Congress, from that (fate.
Newbern, North Carolina, Mav \d nnS
SIR, " '
J THE inhabitants of the Town of Newbern
• findlan excuse for the freedom they exereife
in this address to you, in the critical and alar
ming lituation of the Government, in a com
mon concern for thi preservation of its ho 00 i
and independence, and in the warm approba
tion they entertain of your conduct lince you
have filled the office of Chief Magiltrate ot
the United States.—You were called to it
Sir, at a crisis fraught with difficulty and dan
ger, when neither the improved fldll in the
management of affairs, nor the pared-integ
rity of intention could eofurean entire exemp
tion from censure—At a crisis when the ho
nor, inrereft and happiness of the United
States, required that a diiiin'ct and impartial
neutrality, Ihouldbe family maintained with all 1
foreign powers, but which an artful and inii
dieus let of men at the head of th • Govern
mentof the French Republic, .wore labouring
to 'h\;v—Abruail it required a
conftantexfi>!n,y 0 f the moll wary and active
penetration, HOTude the toils they had let for j \
J and at liome, where you had a right to | 1
I la.).', tor a cordial support, and a zealous and 1
unanimous co-operation, yoa were forced ro s
f" 8a in your me:. In res aga'intt the efforts of a I
deluded enthuii-ifm, propagated in the mind; : '
ol fame otourfellow citizens, bvanil": «roun- ! '
ded attachment to the French cause But i '
ivuii a lleady peifeverjnce and exemplary i i
firinnels ot nnnd which no obilacles could c
v. eary, tut inifreprefeiuations you i 1
have peril te t in a reirtilar apd aftedfaftcourse i r
Oi ll' -.hires hapilv adjusted to the promotion f
ot the honor of our national character, the ! '
advan. ment of our national profperiry and the '• 1
preservation of our national rights—And it
may be the felicity and the boait of the Citi- "
zens of !he United States, that in the series of ' "
these various and critiaf events, the firmnefs f.
and independency of your mind never once d
deferred you, and that all the Iteps you have ii
taken have been guided by wisdom, upon a a!
clear and judicious knowledge of the charac
ter, with whom you had ta deal, and upon a '<
jealous and anxious regard for the honor "
happiness, an.l independence of th® Govern- 'I
ment. «h
Now that the ho.tile views and the nefari
ovis designs ot the French Republic towards ta
the Government ot the United States have ; m
been expoied by the publication of the com- 1 to
munteatioris from our envoys, the love of our en
common country will produce a cordial unani- P'.
taiity ot fentiiaent ; and whatever may be the
raeallires which the wifdo n of our Govern- tr!
J ment may pursue to guard our national honor '°
#nd pr tect our national rights, We are de
terntiued, with one heart, and one voice, to
support them at the hazard of every domeliic
coniideration which may be near ur dear to 11s,
and with an unfhaketi confidence, we repose I
our fafetyand honor, in the energy of your
character, and the wisdom of your mind, as a
statesman.
On behalf of the inhabitants of the Town
■ of Newbern, Sh
We have the honor to be,
With profound refpeit, Br
Sir,
Your mod obedient, and
Mod humble Servants,
RICHARD DOBBS SPAIGHT, Sl<
DANIEL CARTHY,
BENJAMIN WOODS, Fr
EDWARD GRAHAM,
THOMAS BADGER.
To John Adams, £/j. ~> fin
PreftJent of the United States. tw
Toivbicb the Prejidcnr returned the following ot
anfxucr :
Gentlemen, Sh;
An address Jo cordial and tefpeftful as this from I>ri
the citizens of Neivbern, and your warm appro
bation of my condud, since 1 have filled the of
fice of chief magijlrate of the United States, / P' 11
ought to hold in the higbejl ejlimation.
I ivas indeed called to it at a crisis fraught nar
iv?th difficulty and danger ; -when neither Jkill
in the management of affairs, mare improved than " ,a
any I could pretend to, nor the put ejl integrity of ri
intention, couldfecure an entire exemption from 0
involuntary errot\ much less from censure.
There ha ve been, for many years, flrong indi- P ■
(ations that nothing would fatisfy the rulers of the
French, but our taking with them an aftive part con
in the war againfi all their enemies, and exhaujl
ing the lajl resources of our property to support den
them, not only in the pursuit of their chimerical
ideas of liberty, but of universal empire : this we P a P
were tint only under no obligation to do, but had
reason to believe *would have ruine de laws, Ga P'
ton flitut ion, and the mi?a Is of our country, as well
as our credit and property. P orl
dn ardent enthufwfm, indeed, deluded for a
long time too many of our Worthy citizens. P a P'
The honor of your teflimony to the integrity of
my endeavours in f t difficult a conjuncture, is -ve- n
ry precious to my heart.
A r the Mile views iind nefarious designs of cont
the French Republic are now too notorious to be
denied or extenuated, / believe with you, that corrt
the love of out common country will produce a
cordial unanimity of sentiment. cleai
This patriotic andfpi rued address is a clear in
dication of fucbdefir able umon, and will have a
powerful tendency to encourage, Jlrengthen and 7?
promote it. • ~ S,o °
JOHN ADAMS. dem
Philadelphia, May 16, 1798. _ .
Bri
and I
To JOHN ADA MS, PREMDENT of the UNIT- tr i a i.
ED SIAItS mow
Amid the general voice of our country, .which fh
i»called fonh at this important period, we hope that board
an address from the inhabitants of Hartford may be trade
neither improper noi unacceprable. j
Though we ilronglv feel the indignities, which the teer f<
United States have received from the temporary rulers C rs 1c)
of France, and lament their unprovoked depredatior.s VO y hi
upon ourcommeree. »et since it is evident, that their
friendlhip could bcpurchafed only by the f U poo
Jacrifice ol o«.r weakh and independence ; permit us out to
to consider re ifTue of your late endeavors to nego- f c hr. -
ciate with that haughty power, as a fubjett rather of new v.
'just congratulation, than dfefoondence. sale irr
The 'designs (if foreign hofti:itv,and the views of do
meliic treachery are now fully disclosed. The mod- j Airier
eration, vviTdom and d'gn\ty of our admit.iftraiion, robbfi
have awed it.to silence the clamors of fa£tion,a(id pal- Venn
fied the tlioufa>.4 tongues of ca umoy. ahe fpirir ot ladelp
the independent freeman is ngain awakened, and its Y<>rk,
combined force will be irrefiftibie. Situated at a hap- Norio
py «!i;Wi».ce from the deiperate c intentions of oppref- of 49
five monarchies, and unformed republics, while we An
coAti«i6e fi-m and united, ,we can only be involved m Charle
thefkirtsof thu llorm, which {hakes Europe to i:S jina, (
tuui)da'i'»«s. Interna- faction and treason alone can t, 1
endanger ourpovernmen't; and we are happyiofiul 1 —
that theie exist only in the feeble efforts of a few di -
aproi tied prffi 124ns. Though fomt of the foutVrn .
Itatcs Have been artfully nnsrepr'fented. as oppoled
to the federal f*r,vcrr.nrent, and enemies to t s ad- "|IT
mi'»»ftis*tio! , v - do not hQtna e to exp*efs our car-
in tic collected firmnefs and wt'dom which ami i
nave ever displayed ow the approach ot rca: dan- Kind,
'es ,t° per. Nor can wo tli.i rh'; r ~i;j joi,. u » wi'h
equalfpurt 10 c# e» ry'nite.np at
[S " wTwrVT-' Th = ""I'T-unt l.adcs ol
Cw' r '. f T" -nt. would over
(pread Am W|.h dl'cord and a«u ! i:cr, or de.
j ,h 5 '*7 ™ "> rmbiaces of foreign f w „m-
Slonh »'.on rm.* prep, cto mitl lhe ind ~m i o n of the
'wing people, whom they have so !on» attc.nptr-d to de-
ArES ' dTfco' t° , Cd ,h '' lr "" nu " ,cc annihilated on the
been d.' r «»-ery of Uieir.ff.m andd.W
ood- j„V, C y ' n S- per. r <a cm idence, on the wif.
state. """r™ r >f L yOUr "•'»"*«'ion,'on the
)*• .XSn I 1"' and the ftrengjth
and union of the peopfe, we humbly rust that ihr
bern 'rniN,!'," n' 1 «wieh h« (upported in through
. g „ . ".*• *!') cnab ' c u < 10-wi-Hlland ihc arts »i
.rcife- atiacks of the foreign o< in erna! enemies ol ou, free
alar-
:° m - >nu. you wiH ever M , „ot',He lerv le P „ti Z ,ns "
" H am ; or any external domination, bur (
Oba- ■"'"'S' ,n <he r, ,h» of • mencn indeoendeoce ,
and w,rmlv at, K hed to thegovcrr.men- f-ur choice, !
te Ot ,T e '""""'Krano:, poffiffrso... highest etterm an. 1
to i tnav command oa. uimoil exe.iion.
J ln f V,' a the inhahlantsof t.ie own c
Jan- of H, tt rd, convened in coof.qden.e ofa p„hl. ,
the notification on the second da\ Mjv, v O 1708
teg- Ihe loreg.iing adcels was u mnim >ufl/ paiTed and
mp . approved, with the exception ol one dur.aiiogvoice d
ho- Signed by order,
lited THOU S SEYMOUR, Chairman. °
rtial ■<
lal 1 To th < '"hMants of the to wof Ha tford, in. the fhtc of "
nfi- Conned icut.
-rn- Gxvtlem n. [,
rinir , !"?. * h lhe 'entimcflis, and condna iff the oe-i
---eda' f'l° f Conneawu-asexprtrgea BpoKall oicaf,bv i r
five h?° V , SS nc "" h - :r 'eprefentaiS e> ... both ! "
"ve ho'l'es ot Cungrcfa. hzy. b-e„ i-ura„ :HUS and ; c
tor , nifo m fuppo,, of e ro . v,„n-„i as lo rc , in J,
,' Iw "«e.rp"l"!on at this cr un ry, vet this .
anil, aldrch trom the cjtiVnsJjf H-irtfprd. is not the Jest .
II to tome, «• dc le v.ng my . rati ude. i In
<t J live rtever CQnHdered the iiTiieoi oir late endear- dc
nd. ots t J nf> g r, ciatc with the French repuolic, asa fubi 6t VP
tin - | cuh^ r °j C.Ong a ulatidn or defponde ice ; as on (he j
. on-.(.iand Ilh u ld be haopy in thefriailfhip of France
' U P " ,5 ' HOtaL-le conditions under any government fti? th
11M i "! a j C r ? 'oatfume j so.on the c:her 1 fee no pufe ! fo
; o under a cohtinuance of her enfnuy, *
(OU . it luch ts hr determined disposition—Providence i
ir H'l 1 intend «,s a faVor above our wishes, and a. r Y
ion j hledin . beyord our forefight, in the extinction of an ; T
the "ence wh:ch might fo:jn have become more fatal i In .
t j )L . ' thaH war j ,n<
iit 'J ' defignj of foreign hostility, and the & C
iti- ° m<v,,c 'reachcry are now fully disclosed; if the |
sot ' mo ! e,a ' ,on » dignin and wisdom «f government.have jno
' . lnf ? - ,,cuc e tke clamor® of and paified „ •
« the hoijfand tonnes of calumnv; if the spirit of in- !
e eiioen. free men is again awakened, and its force
I,co,nbi ntd, I agree wi'.h you that it will be irrefift
[i a ablr y
IC - I hcfi atennt to exorefs a corfidenc equal to yours 5
la in I'e col IcdJed fiim i-.ls and wisdom which the south- a
Dt . f ern ltates have ever di!p!ay,-d, on the approach of Ct'
11- L a "^i- r ' uor can ' dou'o. that they will join with all i){f
tneirtellow citizens, with equal spirit to crufla every q n
attempt at dilorganization, disunion and anarchy;
ds 1C Va r,t t ' sc i" settlements, and greater dif- "S
! tan^e ro 'o the center of intelligence may require bci
1 mo e t,me to mature their j-idgmenr, and expofethem ,' n ,
to more deceptions, by mifrepiefentation ; but in the ,
lit en their fenlations, icfleftion* and decisions are
,1- purely American.
Ie Your co fidence, in the legifl iture, and adminif- fto\
1- trallon » nave been petfcftly well known from the t u.
or j ommc " c enieut ot the government, and have ever
a _ done it honor. am
to plj, - , JOHN AUAsMS.
ic "niladelphta, May joth, 1798. c l a]
fe GAZETTE MARINE LIST. Ga
,r to I
a
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. °. U £
n , ARRIVED, DAYS. IlCa
Ship S. Carolina, Germon, Charleston ij con
Swift Packet, Gribben, Savannah invi
Brig Aiicl, Gardner, St. Croix Th
Newton, Riley. Ditto eXD
Mary, Qnandrille, Bordeaux 60 .U,
Mi.erva, Long, dltto 6s " ,e
-.loop iZey ot Algiers, Tremmels, returned as- . r
ter having sprung a le.ik mtc
Trom Porto Rico, by the ship Jane, captain as
Stites. i% e
The following vessels liavt; beeji sent in asra
(ince the capture of the New Jerley, except
tvvo or tliree who are mentioned on account
of their recent condemnation : us
From to I on^J
Ship Fame, Brown, New-York Portau- C ar
n Prince—Condemned bion
Rose, King, do. Jacquemel do. upo
Ocean, Hamilton, Calcutta, Philadel- mo (
j phia, Capr. and Papers gone to Guadaloupe
Augiifta, Storer, St. Croix, Sttrri- r J'
t nam, c.tpt. and papers, gone to Guadaloupe.
I Arab, Donahue, Philadelphia, Ja- trei l
1 c:, P t ' and papers gone to St. Domingo gat"
f Br 'S lVi, ria, Cotton, Gibralter, New- tie!
! 1 ork—Condemned ..
Welcome Return, Vannernan, Philadel- . ,
phia, Jeremie, condemned. 1
Kefolution, , Demarara, Norwich,
, condemned, com
Lucy, , Demarara, Hartford, con- land
demned. q
William, Wells, Baltimore, St. Ja-o, u a »
, papers lent to St. Domingo. V'
Neptune, Grofet, New York, Curracoa,
captain and papers at St. Dominyo. ohici
Hannah, Hatton, Newtury- «"efp;
port, condemned. X
Courtney, Watson, Norfolk, Jamaica, of m
papers sent to Guadaloupe. t
■ Schr. President, Stites, Philadelphia, Port au r
Ptince, condemned. i-.act
Intrepid, Wdkinfon, Norfolk, Curracoa, tiller
condemned. of tl
Favorite, , St. Vincents, Boothbay, Tl
condemned. marii
Telegraph, , Havanna, St. Thomas, rv Dc
cleared, 1 nut red in the Havanaa. .
Ann, .Baltimore, Hifpaniola ? CIr f '
> , Walhington, N. C. St. Bar- it _" a
tholomews. at its
Sloop Lilly, , Newport, Jamaica, con- ever
demned. quart
!bv, Cortes, do. Turin Island, do 'Pt.
Brig Rebecca from New-York to 111 Cay-s, ftript
and lold, riot yet condemned, undergniiig anotlirr ®^em^
trial; in 4 the fchr- Lucretia, bound to North Yar- "ant I
mouih. captain an; pipe; j gone to Guadaloupe. re-Orc
The let:risot the (hip Fjiice Itom London, arcon •
board the Jare, and wII be delivered as Coin as P\ e
trade up—they haying all been opened by th.- French, datnitl
Iwo days before the Jane failed, a French priva- threw
teer schooner, c.ptsin Love, carrying 8 four pound- armv
ers Iclt I'orto Rico for this cnaft, and offered to con- fd'
voy r-.cr to the northward of Be muda. '
The brig La Bordaine of 149 pounders, is also ftubbc
supposed to be on tire coalV, and icveral otners rt ting and fll
out tor the larne d-iimation—On the jjth ult. the ']•;
fchK , Edwards, arrived from Baliimore, a f
t.ew vessel pierced for 19 guns and was offered for w| tn 1
lale immediately—The (cnooners intrepid and Prefi spot o
dent, were to fail in a few days with 80 p.,lingers, acccfs
Amencan matters-arid feamen,&c. wno have been r
nibbed of their v. ffels—pa (Tenders in the Jane. capt. ■
Venn of Wfimingron. V.:nneman and y tites of Phi- vva s a
ladelpllia, L>- Henry, of di Mr. Talbot, of New 80)00i
York, capt. cable, ot dc. Cheefbev & Wilftmlon, of
Norfolk, Mr, bmitn ol Rhode ifla>id, and upwards r '
of 40 others. tew ca
Aiiived brig VVilliam, Johnson, 12 dais from = ——
Charleflon; failed in company with the South Caro- pn
Jina, Garm?n. Left there, to fail in t days for this •
t, the ship Loui'a, Kane and brig Well-Point.
William Meredith, Threei
Attorney at Law. B4NK
HAS Removed to No. 27 Chefnut-flreet,
where litlesioUeal eliates are examined
am! Briefs thereof and Conveyances of every l D f ur ar
lind, prepared, nuy ' Jjaw3w
er, 01 15y tliis day s Mail.
I over- - J
KEW-VQRK May 21.
as the
n ihr T POSTSCRIPT
\ arrived here the schooner Eg
wif. lantine, C'fjt. Smith, from Bordeaux, which
eim'b ' arc h 29, and the Cordevan on the
t Thr fir{l of April;
rough On leaving th e river, spoke tht snip Good
Fnends > 4 8 days from Virginia.
.Left there a number of merican veifels
'iiini he Myry Ann, of tnis port, the Alexan
. but e'er Hamilton, of Baltimore, a»,d a Phila
ioicf-C hrig, were all to fail for this port
a,„I in few days.
1 I he crew of American vcflfels were nn-
OVV" dergoing exam nation!, and ftr pped ol Eng,
lidi seamen, 6
and April 20, in lat. 42, long, waa boar- !
nee dt ft by ihe brig King's Fiflier, from Liibon 1
out 3 weeks, then in co-with a frigate, and i
7 < ( f the convoy, which had betn separated i
ft of ln a '. e liortly after they left Li£bon.
A t-m-enclofurc from Pans, supposed to
be Difpatehes from our Envoys, is received r
A letterfrpiii Bordeaux°f the24th March r
,otii ; a y s > 1 hat several veflelsfpbm Baltimoreand 0
J 11- I Charleston bound to SpaiVand Holland, la
-der ; den with rice, fugar,coffee and tobacco, had t ]
J.-fs ec en * n captured by their pr vateers, and sent f
i into that port; bn f their fate had not been "
■a-- determined. That no insurance on neutral ®
.h e "tfels could be effected at any premium,
nee ' f:un» letter adds, They had sieard
(h ■ ' that our Envoys had demanded indemnitv
™' e <)r the vessels captured but 110 answer had
liefc becn rcturnrd ' Nevertlielefs, the Direao- 11
da . r y had, i.i themeantime,demanded TWEN
au j 1 Y-FIVE MILLIONS eflivres from a- ' n
ltal merica, previous to entering upon any Ne-
s gociations. tr
the A file of French Papers to March 28, are '
ave now in our hands, but we have but a few w
left to extra-61 from them for this
ICC day's Gazette. Hz
id- We find nothing in the Trench papers ra
refredling American alfairs—.and b -11 little
iii_ about the invasion of England—They ridi- C
of c«l - the idea of any affiitance from the Spa
-11 i(h fleet—A French Gazette fays if the Tn
™ Spanilli come to us they mud fight—if the ea
ifl fight they will be beat'—and conclude it
ire best for them to Hay in the port of Cadiz a "
™ in order to render the Btitifii force against
|rc thei»-22 fail weaker.
Private letters state that the Directory t0
if- now demand 25 millions, as a discharge of tr "
theobligation we are under to themfortheir ' la
afiiftance to us in our war with England. an
Rome the beginning of March, was de
clared an Independent Republic.
On the 14th Mtrth in the Council of 500
Gauran got up and pxclaimed—War War in
to the Englilli government ! Such is, and P e '
ought to be the rallying cry of every repub- are
s lican. Not that from ambition or desire of ' an
2 c°nqueft,the French want tojraafport their 'P'
invincible legibns to the plains of Albion. co '
The Great Nation, the regenerating people, 1
expefts no reward for itsatchierements, but
the 1 ->ry of drawing English people '
f. from trio abyss of degrad3tioa and disgrace re^
into which the intrigues of a corrupt couit * T ,'^
n has precipitated them. But, tjll it is pun- ric '
1 filed, let us na/ura/ize, hatred
n against this . base government which has
'J sworn to wage a war of extermination upon Ex ,
us Cato, in the Roman Senate, uttered •
only t'is exclamation DeUnda eft Carthago. Jyf
. Carthage mujl be dcjlroyed. Let ours be, ./- 1,
Hon mujl be destroyed ! Yes, the descent wer
• upon England is one of the grarideft and 'y 3
- moil honorable conceptions of the Diredto- '
e ry. I move that the President in closing cou
the present session, manifeft the national ha
_ tred by repeating Vsngeance, Vengeance a- ther
a gainjl the government ■which opprrjfes every peo- addi
- pie ! -.What a ridiculous madman. "
The following is from the Gazette Bor
delaife, of 21ft March:
j General Kil naine has left Paris. lie
commands the center of the army of Eng
. land from Port-Malo to Havre. nary
General DefTaix, the right wing from led r
- Havre to the Anvers and General Eh ber f hat
the left from Port Malo to Rochfort. Thele '
ofiicers are imm* lately to repair to their ' ' "
. refpeClive polls. P " ,
The Direftory has named a commifiion obfci
of marine to organize the armament of def- £ ret
cent. The members are Rear-Admiral J A
Lacrgfife, citizen Andrioffi, general of ar- j
tillery, and captain Mulkeyn, commandant cato
of the Flotilla, wher
This commifiion is independent of the whic
marine miniller, and unites civil and tnilita- two '
ry powers- It is under the immediate or- thrm
ders of the Diredory and gen. Buonaparte, from
It has a fund of 400,00 c livres per decade 'he c
at its disposal. The membets repair where- : in fii :
ever their presence is required, but the head j
quarters are at Havre. ,T' nt!
'PL T"* 11 r ' not
.the trench have found in the Swiss, an ! Tli
enemy worthy of their bravery.- The ci-de-! ol, f E
vant regiment of Watteville had just been '■ 1 alle:
re-organized—ln the late aflion it was cut
to pieces. Seven men only remained—Dif- they 1
darning to survive their comrades, they ' oiirfej
threw themfelucs inthe ranks of the French cv '" i
army, and perifiied. Eighty YOUTHS Icd
of Berne defended a narrow pafiao-e with
fhibborn valour, killed many of 1
and finally petiihed with arms in their hands, oppof;
The Bernois General d'Eriach retreated rom 1
with 11,000 men to Lake Thonn, at the i
foot of a caaggy mountain, of very difficult
access. ~ -
r r y
L.etters also state, that gen. Buonapare ot 'be
was at BreS, with the miniftcr of war and
80,000 men, in full preparation so the des
cent, to efiedl which they only waited for a
few calm hours. hie to
PRICES OF STOCKS. But'l'-'c
Philadelphia, May i pofitio
S.x Per Cent. , r/ * r,t Jac
Three Per Cent. r f Fr> , nc(
Deferred 6 Per Cent, Icl/ - 0 rv fl.iv
B\NK United States, ao per cent. witiiui
Pcnrfylvania, 43 p- r cent. yeorne
- ilorth America, 'SO j.cr cent. prndut
lnfurarae Co. pencent. [-. : v
N. A, ditto, i; i per cent. r ,r ( a ; (
~ 'M' ■ mjIII.JW—WCJA_■ IJJ - 1 •«*
Xfje isnyzzte. j:
- j
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, Mat 22. c
vhifh | »
n the Tin" ; morning, at 6 o'clock, was launched «
from the fhi'p.yird of Mr. Humphreys, the
jood conflru&or, a fine -brig of 22 cans, built "
for the Dcy of Algiers? W
eflels _ j
■xan- The ihip Adrians of Baltimore, is bought pi
hda- into the service of government, as a craifer tii
port _ th
On the arrival of the Neiv-Jerfcy at Por. of
1 us- to-Rico, the crew, with the i exception of al
ing- one man, remained by the veflll. This P , J
man entered on board a French brig pn'va- ' a
oar- teer, which llwrtly after fell in and had a s ol
(ton brulh wit'i an American armed merchant- w<
and man The firft shot from the American 1)11
Jted (hip took off his head. ex
by
Jto On Suiidsy last, ihe body of a mulatto man, ed
ived named Stevens or Stevenson wa* found, in a ve- 1 3 ".'
irch r y Petrified fiate, in a small house in Kne-ftreet, ' r f'
and "PP ofite ~le Frienris meeting. H- was miffing J
the 9th infbnt, at which time it i? supposed he j C " r
• la " died in a fit : the fwsrtning of flirs, in.lncrd a ™
bad the people to examine the house in which he wa< j',
ent found. Stevens was well known to many sam- ' '!
een >'i« in this city, as a very handy waiter at wed- ■' J*.
ral dings. f P"
ma;
ard Extract of a Letter corJ
itv To the Editor, dated Charlellon, May 9. fpj r
lad " 13 with great pleas.-.re I fend you the by
to* unanimous resolutions of my fellow-citizens,
assembled at the New-Church, on the sth
A- inll. (the fame hallowed place whence fiued
fe- tho, " e fulminating decrees against the British ph ''
treaty, over which t wish to draw a veil). w ; t j
are can assure you, that more unanimity never dow
•w wasdifp'ayed than on the present occasion, [ hi*
[lis finc<i '76' Our zeal for the French cause
has been great: but now,—begone, ye Ty- '
■rs rants ! we - lrc free, arid you lhall not dif- an j
■] e tnrb our Inaependence. Thus fayeth all clica
|j. Carolina. titut
ia- By this vessel goes our address and memo- COUE
he rla ' to our worthy President—as alio to
he each branch of the Legifialure. "f,
; t Fhe Conful-Geneial of Franc: (Dupont) lenci
; 2 also embai ksfor your place to fnperfede Mr. 10 g '
L'Etomb. fihili
Our voluntary fubferiptions now amount
ry to'is> ooo dollars—the return frem tie coun- p atr ;
0 f try not known—but muil be large. We arcs
,; r have had two French privateeis off our Bar m'a
and coast. They havt taken one fliip from }' , ' 1
. this, and two from Savannah."
w and t
T . ness
)0 In addition to tne Intelligence contained parti
ar in the letter of our correspondent, it ap- I P rca
|( j pears, that those privateers (of which there keen
3 . are three) have made a descent on Edifto If
-3f land, and carried off the flieep and poultry, Frem
• r spreading great terror and alarm thro* the foluti
;K country. One of the parties confided of 1
lt the sheep and poultry which tbey seized *
Thcfe were very particular in their eiquiries
;e refpe&ing the number of white and black
t inhabitants, and whether the Planters were
} _ rich, &c.
d ~ A]ex '
lg Spirit 9/ Pat riot ism.
Extras of a ictter trcm Reading, May 19th. n\ C
j ** On Thursday lafb we had the largest meet
ing ever.known of the inhabitants of this coun- char!
J* ty, for the jiurpofe of addressing; the Prefideur.
- is fi?ppofrd that: t least two thousand of them cj.rif
t were the adclrefs was unanimous- Eliza
d ] y a ? r « d t(> - Eikto
_ *' A g'eat number of the youn;; men of the Gcor t
y county inct at the lame time, :ni»ched into the Ms
5 court-house with drums b«atiag, colors flyiri? Thurj
and the black cockade mountcdiH their hats and Tore f
- there with equal unanimiry agreed upoa their Ma
- address to the Preficlent. Getx-r
si Both will appear in the public print*."
MR. FENNO,
The rverfion to war so difcoverahle in the peo
pie of the United States, may be regarded as proof /5 P °
positive, that they have not imbibed thofc fangui "arn
nary principles which charaflerize the new fang Comp
1 led republics. To this avcrfion mufl be imputed ™ ot
. that wonderful lacility with which men of found Comp
i , judgment and approved patriotism prevail upon Comp
themfelvesto accredit every report which favors of like
peace. , Plated
I was induced to make thefc observations by Spur I
1 observing, that.some persons have attached a de
gree of importance to tfte letter from.-our Consul Aqua;
: at Amsterdam, pub lifted in your paper of yester
day, which it by no means merits. That the
French government should cause the (hip Ameri
ca to beieftorej, is easily to be acccounted f»r,
when we consider, that the" molt certain means
which the Dwtch peffefsof discharging the thirty*
I two millions of Refcriptions, fa obligingly offered to
us, are derived from the commerce they carry on
through the medium of neutrals.—But abflra&ed ma y
from this consideration, it is to be remarked, that
the circumstance of the America's being captured r> r
; in fight of the Texel, was calculated to excite ge-
. neral alarm, and thereby prevent all further fhip
j ments t<* Holland. What good Democrat could
j not release one cargo in order to entrap a hundred ?
I The letter from the Consul also mentions, that
' our Envoys hh4 had several co«f«reßces with M. "
1 Talleyrand—but whether thcfe conferences were J)
subsequent ta those which have been published
here is not known. Admitting, however, that r\ 1-
; rhey werfe, 1 fee no reason why we (hould flattar • , C
ourselves with a favorable issue, when it is not '« • e
cvan pretended that our wa.voys had been accredit- vflr 1
ied To the extract of a second letter'without 1 r N .
date, laid to have been received frqm the consul '
: bating that Mr. Gerry hid informed him, " tb.it
the negtciatiin appeared to be in good train" I lhall
»>ppofe the authority of another extrad of a letter Likei
from the fame gentleman, dated February 24th, fame oc
i 1798, which letter is not at Boston, but 'actually may
!in Philadelphia. The extradl is as follows—" Mr. WILL J
Gerry "writes tne lately tbey cxpe&faon to leave France as fcy
tbey went" lt is with the public to decide which A
ot the two extra&s i» entitled to moll credit.
TO THE PEOPLE. Written
There is no phraff 1 in language, agreea
ble to the sentiments of good men than this.— Some in
<4 Peact, agricult'ire and eommerce are the true
** fourcesor national wealth and happinefg."— ,n
But hecasfe everybody admits the truth of this
portion ought every body to give in to the curl
ed Jacobin cant about the terrors of war with
France ? What is on one fide only ? Eve- - 2
ry Have' is at peace it he will bear his whipping
without murmi r To what purpole do our E" 1
yeomen labor and our merchants trade, if our a few
produce, or what we expeel to receive in ex- RUM y,
change for it, is l'nan«ed up bv a set of pii.atical ! cis' whaj
r»fcaW ? as to the cant. Suppose I were to j may i<
40
fiy | ! ,at jufljce, trntl. ir J( ] cantior ire the frile
foutt'ei nt i. dal *l^}T-p,iicif ; oi thai piety, mo
rality Jilt religion, were the :;ue fourccs »f etiir
—- n *' 1"' vat ion. Does it fol'ow that we are t->
have no laws to guard the one, nor temples t.i
aflet»ble at and pray for the other ?
, , . '' ' s fliends, in political as well is ill
| civil arid relig:ous'matters : man ia his crude'
nit lire is no more to be tn.fted in one cafe than
Me others. To prefsrve peace we mud Ije al.
cnca ways prepared for var.
, tl:e over the hi.'iory ~f the world, and fhov
built ™ c: - ™« can, arts naiirn that made indefenfi
: We peace its lludy and ohjedl, which did not at
| 'he ia.„; tlme life to ;| t0 , nr ; ch frfnu .
Uelit ' nt; "i 7ntl ' : "' who WJS firing enough either ta
■| " k «P'he ■> under conllaift contribu
i thev'rl, 'f ' h \ D " tch 2t tf is moment Are
0 of Sn 1v° P W - ' he timC 0f Phili P ! - C "1
POr c all itfe m f ?" h r ° much 'P l « dor ? With
n <>f DV dV 1 M u War ' n " 1 m ° rc "P
---r b ,'s th « J they ire ?No rain,
'anker worm f 'IT' r ' n M with the
*d a foul VVhaTh/ h' graCe g " JV?!n * hi ' ll in, ° h "
ant- M? f it'^fTnd^rv 1
ic,» graceful peace , 1
except the buildings a »d works of an
by the bye are of no value but as they are win'-
and h j°k ant! S " Chis mn,ne " t m " rc P '"<■
; ve " aif«d hcr I,™ " WO " !,J hlvebfcn if i:
' eer> : that it. t, s""™'go, and lultained alf
W i that enemies t ould have dr *;e to them. Their
1 he i c <«n»n«ce »nnih.l«ed, their n\-v deieatM, the
ceri ?hTf and ">eir peop'eproiirate, with ■
wa» ] foot or a Svc headed-monller nn their neclc--
am- '" r " COm " "«• ; «- fee the even, of ft, I, I
•ed- j ' ' "" n,a y God of hts infinite meit'7 in
'pire us with the spirit of our faihers, and we
may exult,nth, ever, t, I - oppofition.
In, the prelent I clrfe whh this fervent re
-- the rifin, mtlitary
) p.t appear frequently in martial array init
the lay down your arms only-with your lives
A v »'°«o To THE WJSF.
;th
led i MRi "nno,
ift 1 Ph'jjtthu h I hear that Tome of the
0. „th I P hS , v * h " themf-lw,
J' V th • I ? WK,n - are now P ullln K , hcm
chi ,L'rr °ll r ° Ung " ,C " w hoiite'd
m, th« fymhol. as emhlematic:.! of artaehm-t and
•>fe •«'«a/» rt Jie l'rrfia-nt of the United tates ar.d
•y- JU " and Wife admitiiftraticn. as a
if- ™tII w gn J" lOrt , " W3rds Fri ' ch prmciol s
11 and all those who propa-.fe then, , '
all (lie ation of a M rrm in t J fpj r it t0 repel w i t K .'n'pl
countrv Ter w ittiCk UPo '' the inderendence ot ilu,
l 0" thele 2r~- ? g " With thcL ' 'niprcffions and
t0 r: a "°° ! ' ' CU "" Ot it off while
dang, r threaten., or while Fra. ce con inues her
t) lcncc'tow ?° f f c P redation » crueky a»<l info
ld lcnce towards us. I will aft- «.v„ j
r m( » • . 11 3K vv «y "Oi?s cur wtar
fiWl'tv „lT' CaD Cmk3d '' exck - th ' wa-meftfen-'
Hnst ccrrup t A urora mar, and hi. W,
nt insult and ij l 7 a vil).lip.ouf mob so
wi, ° courage and
iTe arc friends to Th"''' Be "" r ' it(hcws
e arcir ' eHdb to their country, and who are deter.
ar r^ d w r t he to w 0 A ;:,""
ra ic mews the worthy and honorahl maioritv who
have fuftcient of charaacr
and the contemptible minority wfio h,v ,1,1 1"
■d
„ spread of ,h ? I" h , B , a t£ndenc >' ,0 ch " k th =
P " k/. /a ■ ? r bancful principles, which hav
r£ re"r, n ' n he hT fly «*<?>">"« the purpose of
f - w"hTweh t OUB . h " d . ofanarch T. The panic
y, FrerchfaJit -American cockade (Irike, the
,e g|"= h n «cffity of
- _*** " Fabricius, No. I."-^to.mcrrcw,
k MAILS are now received from and
feHt to the following places every day
Sundays excepted.
Alexandria, Va. Havre de Grate, Md.
m TT } Md ' New Brurfwiek, N. f.
Bladeniburg, Md. Newark, N. f.
t- t'f New Haven, C.
• rk f'n ' New York, citv..
Charle«on, Md. Prii.cetoa, N f
'■ C leiler, Pa. Raha., y ,'N. r
Chrtftiana, De. ronton, N-. I
P L? : e:h JrT U ' N ' J ' W «">i"S'on, utf.
L-kton, Md. Wilmington D
e Georgetown, Ptk. Wo^dbri<i<r C m' t
£ ti, M « S fr ° m Winche(ter ' Va - ar " made' up ere- y
d A ' M- Friday hilf an b ™ r
r May ,1, i; 9 B 7
General Port Ofßce j to6t
Fox's Auction Room.
0 N Tuesday next, at ten o'clock in the
mornnir, will be fold by annSlion, a num
f +>rr or articles in the Sadiery and Coach
Harness of
Cpmpletefcttscf Coach and Cha-1
I riot harness for 2 & 4 hnrfes
! Complete setts of Chair Harness V finely plated
, Complete setts of Furniture for |
likcharnef* j
Plated Eitts, Spurs, Teh its, Buckles, Staples &c.
Spur Leathers, Straps &c.
/i /. S O,
A quantity of Englilh Walnuts
Capers
Sweet Oil
Coffee Sags
Giafs-'vVare
Looking GlafleS
Silver Watches
EDh'/ ARD FOX, 2U(f\:or.eer.
may 22 #
'This Day Fublijhed,
fi y J* ORMROD, No. 41 Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price 2; cent..)
OBEDIENCE
TO THE
LAWS of GOD,
THE SURE AND INDISPENSABLE
DEFENCE of NATIONS.
A DISCOURSE,
Delivered in the Second Presbyterian Church,
in the City of Philadelphia, May 9th, 179?.
Being the day appointed by the Pk esidi n't of
the Un 1 rfrD Statks, to be obfervtd as a Sea
son for Solemn Humiliation, Fading and Prayer.
By Jifblcl Green, D. H-
Pajlor of the afurcfciH Ch urci.
Likewise, jufi publ.'lbed, a Sermon, on the
fame ocrafion, by the Kev. Mr, Abercrombie.
may 22 , t
WILL BE on Thursday a 4 th'kir.
by JOHN ORMROD, Che-nut, street,
A PATRIOTIC POEM CALLED,
The ALIENS :
Written by a Senator of the United States,
in confc-quefice ot the Alien Bill.
Some inllitution? of Peimfylvania ?rc noticed
Dedicated to GEORGE WASHINGTON.
In which the real American may enjoy
*Tbi feajl of reafott ;
And the flow of foul-,
(PRICK 25 CENTS.)
may 22. n
j O
By John Nixon & Co.
A fcv/hJi.Js of excellent H. Croix SITG \}> ar.,l
RUM, which wijl be landed at Will ng and Fran
cis' whajf 1 ext Monday, the 21ft indant.
may 16. djteclfHEAD ACHE.
I PERSONS affli&ed with the Head Ache, pro
ceeding fram whatever cause, will find in-
Uar.t relief in the application of
Dr. Church's Anodyne Essence, ,
In Rheumatic, Nervovsand Billiou*Head Aches,
it has not its equal. It not only alleviates that >
tormenting'pain, but remove* it aimofl inflantane
ouAy. The Head Ache occasioned by hard drink
ing, and any local pains in any other part of the
boily or extremities, are by its application effectu
ally removed.
CASES OF CURE. wi
To Dr. ChUrcm.
Dear Sir, A:
I have been fubjeA to a very severe Head Ache
for several years, which sometimes used to nffli&
me to such a violent degree, as to disable me from
attending my duty as Draftfman of the Tower,
for several days together. 1 have had the advice
of several eminent in this city and in
Wales, and have tried several other remedies re
commended to me without effect. Being one day
extremely indifpufed with the Head Ache as usual,
1 sent for you,- when you recommended your Ano
dyne Effenct to me, which I applied, and which
remov«»d the pain, as soon as I applied it.—\ fre
quently repeated the use of it, and am happy to **
inform you, I have had no return of it. A
I am, Dear Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN BARNES.
J)raiving Roovfy Toiocr of London, May 9> 1 795*
'From the Morning Advertiser, March z6 1795*
Another gentleman in his Majesty's service in V
the l ower of London, has been extremely afflict
ed with the Head Ache tor some years, and some- A
times to so violent a degree, as to prevent him from A
attending the duties of his oflice ; at ona of which
times, he sent for some of Dr. Church's Anodyne
Eftiace. which he applied, and which removed th«
pain instantaneously ; and he is happy in affirming,
that he has had no return of th* painfince. ,
The above gentleman, ■fcrhofe name and addreis
maybe at the place of sale, will teftifythe
above, to any Candid enquirer. £
Church's ANODYNE ESSENCE, is prepared
and fold (only) by th« Inventor and Proprietor,
DR. JAMES CHURCH,
At his Medicine Store, No. I, South Third street,
Philadelphia.
where MAt Also be had,
Church's Cough Drops, a medicine unequalled by
any other in the world, for the cure, of Coughs,
Aflhmas and Consumptions.
Alfp, his Cordial Rcjlorati-ve Haifa#!, for Nervous
Difofders, Inward WeaknefTes, Debilitated Consti
tutions, and Disorders incident to Young Girls and
Women at certain periods of life ; celebrated Eye
Salve, for all diseases of the Eyes ; Vegetable Lotton,
for the cure of Freckks, Sunbrirhs, Pimples, and
all Eruptions of the JFacc and Skin, Shingles, and i
the Prickly Heat ; Volatile Tin&ure, an immediate
cure for that excrutiating pair, the Tooth Ache ;
Siotcb Ointment, for thi cure ot the Itch, in four
hours, with ut a pjrticleof mercury, or any per
nicious ingredients ; and Antifpafmodtc Elixir, for
the ciire of all kinds of Fits.
may to.
Joseph Ricardo,
Of this City, Merchant, has afiigned his pro
perty for the his Creditors, to James
C. Fiftier, Samuel W. Fisher, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
tjileifced to furnifh their accounts without delay—
and thofc indebted to make immediate payment to
ihe ijdbfcribers, a&ing A fiignees.
James C\ & Samuel W. Fifljcr.
No. 13, Arch Street.
match ,11 4tawW
Country Relidence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
with to receive two or three genteel boaid
crs. The Ho'ufe is handsomely iurnithed; th<
Gardens, Msadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well flocked with the ehoicell Fruit.
r J'h-:re are several MufrciJ Inftrumsnts, amongtl
which is a moil excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Famiiy have a handforre Coach, which may beat
the service of the whole.
The Coach House and Stabbs are most excellent
—the Water good~-and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
sette. * dtf_ may 16.
A Country Seat to Let.
NEAR tlis Frankfu-droad, about four and a
half miles froir.Philadelphia-rthe fituatioH
retnarkaoly pleasant and healthy. Immediate
polteflion may be had Apply at No. 144
N South Second Sireet.
may 4 3tavrtf
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEK.EA3 the fubferiher and his wife Jane
Hodgkinfon, haveby mutual consent agreed
to livs separate and apart from each other from
bed and board, these are therefore to forewarn all
persons from trulling her on my account, as by
contraA (he is to fupportherfelffor the future, and
lam determined not to pay any debt of her con
tra&ing. SAMUEL HODGKINSON.
may":;: 'iti.w
Ross is* Simsoa,
HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
. Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Baftat, Colfaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica and") RUM
Bengal 3
april a §
Thomas £3° Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At No. 5, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and coifee
claps and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and tafßti«a
Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and Englilh umbrellas,
Together ivith a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. 8d iod. lad. and aod. nails
Shot-—T\ Crowley steel, Spanish brown and white
lead
EHglifti fcythes4a to 50 inches
ALSO,
111 harrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
AcontmsdiousSt9reinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, suitable for
any bufihrf*. § 4th mo. sth
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro
Man, named Glofgoiv, perhaps he may pass
by the name of Glsfgo-w Lee, or may change his
name ; he is about thirty one years of age, nearly
fix feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un
der lip, a fmallpart being bitten out between the
middle and the corner of his mouth on
the right fide), his left hand has been very fore,
and was so at the tinse he ran away, by being burnt
some time pail : he is a stout, Urong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro woman of
Mr.Jolhua Lingoe,pf this county. It is luppofed
they are gone >nto Delaware.State. Any person
that fccure* laid Man in any gaol, that the
" ESME BAYLY. .
lu or Maryland, ">
tt County, april 10. j may 4—4w
treasury department,
MARCH i, 1798. f
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, c
INpurfuance of the A£t of Cengrefs paired on the Cxth day of July onethoufand seven hundredanu k
ninety-seven, entitled "An A& laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and 1 aper , andthe P
A6t passed on the fifteenth day of Dumber, one thousand seven hundred and nKiety-feven, 1
"An Ail to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the ACt cat! 3
tied " An Allaying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , that from and after the
firft; day of July enfting, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
For every ikin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon which Cull be
written or printed any or either of the instrument. or writingslollowißg—to wit
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - ' r 5
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the admifiion,enrolment er regiltry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proflor, in aay Court of the
United States, - - - „ , " '" . c 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of tie Courts of the United Mates
for one of the said Office., (hall so far as relate, to the payment of the
duty afarefaid, be a lufficient admission in all the Courts of the United
States, for e«ch and every of the said offices. I
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
{except for lands granted for military Cervices) - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy ot any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for land, granted for military fcrvice.)
Any Charter-Partv, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - i
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or »-
ther testamentary instrument, or for any share or part of a pcrior.a estate di
vided by force ofany statute of diftributiMW, other than to the Wife. Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafei 4 the amount whereotlhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and ihall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - ' '
When the amodnt thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
ihall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 5 °
\nd for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of i
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrsment in nature thereof, on any (hip, vefiel or
goods insured from one diflri.'.l to another in the United States, 35
From the United State, to any fofeigu port or jilace, when the sum for which
Insurance is made shall not exseed five hundred dollars, - 15
When the sum infarcd (hall exceed five hundred dollars, * 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature footer, that (kill pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it maybe the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furn'.lh for the life of the United States or some particular (lite, - jo
Any P.ond, bill Tingle or pfnal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, proraiiTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill; bond, or other obliga
tioti or made to or with the Unitad'States or any hate, or for then
uferefpe<ftively, - - - - "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars a«d not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding «•: thousand (k-llars, 50
And if above one thoul'and dollars, - - - - * 75
Provided, that if any bond, or notes (hall be payable at or withm sixty days,
such bond, or notes (hall be fubjeil to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dotlai s, 10
If above five hundred dollars aud not exceeding one thousand dollars, »o
If above one thousand dollar., - - - 3°
Any Notes iffiicd bv th* banks now eftabliflied, or that may hereafter be eftib
lifhcd within the' United Stat*., other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as ihall agree to »n annual competition, of owe per centum 011 the anneal di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholder, refpeflively, according to
the following scale. - - " >,
Oil all note, not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dallar, -■ - 0
On all notes above fifty dollar., and not exceeding one hundred dollars, jo
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollar., - ... 1
On all note, above fiye hundred dollars, - %
Any Protefl or other Notarial afl, - - - - . *J
' Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtam cr fell W ar
rant* for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military service.
performed in the late war, - - . t *i
■ Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cufioms or duties, for lets than
' five hundred dollars, * "
For five hundred dollars and not exceedieg two thousand dollars, »
For more than fvo thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods cr merchandize to be exported,
K from ome dißrist to another diftrifl of the United States, not bei#g in the
fame State, .... to
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - »J
• Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effciSs, made in'tny
cafe required by law, (except in cafe, of goods and chatteU diftrair.ed for
; rent or taxe., and goods taken in virtue ofany legal process by any officer,) jo
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, «f a (hare in tie Bank of
, the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollar, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
t If above one hundred dollar., ... 2$
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
' The dutiesaforelaii will be collc&ed and received by the Supervisors, Infpedors aud other Officers
C of (nfpedtion, in the several Diftri&s, Survey* and Division. of tjie United Bwtes, and by such other
perfonsas (hall from t. time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of DiilriSs for
that purpose.
HI.
The Supervisors of the several DiftridU will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and a. soon at
a may be praAicable, mark or (tamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper tt.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
-5 taincd at the rate» prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpe&er, Officer of Infpectien,
4 or other person appointed for the distribution of Stampe, by th<f Supervisors of Didrids
GIVEN utiJtr my Haud> at Philadelphia
the day and year aboverxcntitnfd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
e March 10. Secretary of the Trcafury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March JOth. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT byana<f\ of Congrcfs pal Ted on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a<st patted on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An a6l laying duties on stamped vel
" lum, parchment and paper."
I.
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
11.
A discount at the rate of foven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpe&ors refpedtively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties shall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
in.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each skin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each skin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnifo
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for anylefier quantity.
Given under my bond, at Philadelphia, the
day andyeir abo'vetnentioved.
OLIVER WOLCQTT,
Secretary of the Trea/ury.
To be Let,
(And pofleflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three Itory brick House,
22 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and (tables, at present in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third ftrcct.
April 2. §
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
f Price 25 Cents J
Reflections on Monroe's View
of ras conduct or the EXECUTiri,
As pnblilhed in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In "which the Commercial Warfare of France is traced
to the Frenth Faction in this Country, as its Source,
andtb: Motives of Qjijto/ition, &e.
TO BE SOLD, by
John Nixon Sjf Co.
A quantity of veryexcellentLOGWOOD
NOW LANDING AT TIEIR WHARF,
may 10. sawtf
Frefli Teas.
Jufl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Cacton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, 54, Chafnut-flrect,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At His Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, assarted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sat tin a, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks. «
Tbey have a\fo For Sale y
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugar iv boxes.
march 8. §
Now Opening,
AiWilliamM'Laws Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general alTortment of Horseman's
Pistols, dire& from the Manufa&urers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartourh Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft; Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at BLACKBURN s Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. ll.and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moll of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. The bmfinefs of a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcoanting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
The following Certificates of
fUNDED DEBT CF THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of the treafury,were H
forwarded for London 'oy the (hip William
Pcnn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured, ha
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz : gr
3164. 81. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev. m
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall, P]
Great Britain, dated June 2, 1797* Certificate
No. 10,072.
Soxi. If. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name ot w
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
36J0. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, ofOrmtby, in the county of Nor- g
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797- No.
10199.
10183. 71. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannct Mathew, of Upper Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated O&ober 31 1797- No. |j
11810. V
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap-
plication is intended to be made at the hid office of h
jhc Treasury of the United Stat -s,—and all per- £
sons concerned aredefired to tak- notice. f,
ALSO —IN THE SAME VESSEL, _ c
Fifteen (hares Stork of the Banltof UwitedStates.in
thename of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
' for five (hares each, dated January I, 1797.
No. 25981, 15983, 15984. J
For the renewal of which,application i« meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, — I
and all persons concerned therein arc desired to C
take notice.
JN. VAUG HAN. (
Philadelphia, may 4- s6w J
The following Certificates of Shares j
IN the North American Land Company, (landing .
on the Books of fdid Company in the name of .
Darnel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid- .
dlefex, England—viz. No. 2151, reprcfenting j
1309610 13105, ten lhares—No. 2150 —13066 to j
13075, ten (hares—No. 214Q—-13056 to 13065,
ten (hares—No. 2148—11509 to 11518, ten (hares
—No. *l47 —11471 to 11480 —Amownting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by tke
(h>p William Penn, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the re.
newal ef which, applicajion will be made to the J
Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I V,6w
New Tea Warehouse.
No, 39, South Front Street,
OPPOSITE POST-OFFICt.
THE Subscriber rcfpe&fully acqusintsherfriends
and the public, that (lie has opened a Store for
the sale of allkindsof teas, imported in the late
arrivals at Boston and Philadelphia, (at under) and
which die is determined to fell on reasonable teims.
It will be herconliajtt endeavour to give foti.fa&ion
to those who please to favor her with their cuitom.
Country (lores will find it their advantage to deal
wi h her, as (he can at a moment's notice alTort
them any quantity wanted,and will allowareafon
able credit oil approved notes.
Imperial, Hyson, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, rnd Bohea —Alfa, Coffee and Loaf
Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
April 12 »&th 6w
JUST RECEIVED.
And far file by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-flreet
T. Doblcm, 41 South Secend-frett and the
Boekfellere generally,
(Price 5-Bthi ef a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Potm, historic and deforiptive ?
fiy a Lady of JSo/hn.
ANALYSIS OF BO j) K 1.
Allusion to the forr«unding Profpedt—lnvocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Fifiion discarded—Dedication to Wafla
ington—The A&ion opeas at the Retreat of the
Columbiaasfrom Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The ?4emory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfanificatioo of Fortune and Fame—
rs Wafliington at Mount Vernon—called to the
er chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
or Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical Hiliory of the several State?— Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer-
J 8 ings—Negotiation for the fafc Retreat of the
?" Briti(h Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
, 1 Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
ra&er of the Columbian Soklies—The Poet's 1
n ' prophetic Apaftrophe to the Frogrcfs of Free
dom throughout the World,
march 30. §
Valuable Stands for Buiineis.
FOR SALE—by the Subscriber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate o» the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Second and Third streets :—o*e containing
[) eighteen feet, and the other seventeen feet, more or
ess, on the said street, and both extending, the
lfVie breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
of less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 82)
Which may readily be made into one ; and, on
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well built
htree-ftory
st > Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said alley.
* This property is clear of ground-rent, and an
indisputable title will be given to the purchaser.
The three Houses will be fold separately or toge
ther.
. e _ Further particulars may be known on applica
en tion to
ZACHARIAIi POULSON,jun.
No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, or at the Library.
march 23. fefißw
e f '* Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contraS his busi
ness, offers this Eftale for (ale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blail and three Air Furnaces,
, v a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
' ' Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnace,
were lately built (or the purpose of calling Cannon
'for this State. —There are *bout two thousand acre«
of Land, one half of which i s under wood, the other
;ht very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
; a- Pafturc. The Cannon lately mannlafiured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one ®f fixtv-nine gsm
■ — lately made, although some of the 94 were bored
I into 31 pounders, hare tailed on proving. The fliu
• ationis very eligible, particularly for this branch «f
>th manufacture, a.d a place ot arms lying in the (late
at of Connefticut,and only 30 miles from several land"
; ry ings on the Hudson's river, an«l having every advan.
__ tagc that can result from a plenty of water ifTuing
r from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
Er " uleful purpotes. The purchaser can be accommodat
'®~ ed with all the (lock and utenfili, and have possession
on .r belore the firft of Juiit next, and preparation
tc " may be made in the mean lime for going into Btatt im
;lle mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
°d term), apply to Mr. Jofcph Anthony, in Philadc!-
ies, phio; David Brooks, Efq.one of the Reprefentativei
of in Congress for this Stile ; Mr, David Waterman, on
to, theprcmifei. or to the proprietor in New-York
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. t. 3 awtf
FOR SALE.
A neat Country House,
THREE and a half miles from the city, oil
the Wiflahicon road, with seventeen and a
half acres of land, half in orchard and half in *
grass. Apply to Edward Bonsall& Co.
in Dock-street, or to the fubferiber at Mount
IPleafant, on Schuylkill* adjoining the premifej.
Jonathan Williams.
N. B. If not fold before the firft of June, it
will not be for sale during the season.
may 19 * 1 ' ,
~~ Just Publilhed,
By W. YOUNG, bookseller, Second-fljreet,
the corner of Chefnut street,
THE WORKS OF JOHN NEWTON,
L o N D O Ni
*A new edition, in 9 vols price dols. neat
ly bound, containing letters of Oin)cron and
Virgil, Cardiphonia, review of ecclesiastical hif
t«ry, sermons, mefiiah, letters to a wife, Olney
hymns, and the life of Eliza Cwnningtum.—
Each of these parts may be had separate, and
ftich as have been supplied with W. Young .&
edition in 6 vols, may, by speedy application, be
furniflied with the 7th, Bth and 9th vols, at
dols.
Also, Jatety Publijhed.
Baxter's Saint's Reft, abridged by Faw- dols*
cett, i2mo at 1
Beveridge'aprivate thoughts, 2 partsiamo
Christian (the) Parent, nmo 50
(the) Remembrancer, u.mo 75
Cbriftian world unmasked, do 62\
Dickenfon's (of New-Jersey}' familiar
letters, nmo
Doddrige's rife and progress, ißmo 50 a 62^
sermons on education, 121T10 44
fermon6toyonng persons, do 624
on regeneration, ißmo Bi£
Davies sermons 2 vols Bvo 4
Home's «ommentary on the book of
Psalms, 2 15
■ dittb 2 vols Bvo 2 jo
a tvork highly admired brail whs have
bad the advantage of perufmg it.
Heryey Afpafio vindicated, 12K10 7f
Letters of certain Jews to Voltaire, Bvo 2
Walker's sermons, with Blair's life of
the author, » vols Bvo 3
White's sermons, preached before the
Univerfityof Oxford, Bvo 1 50
Wynperflc on the tree and eternal God
head of our Lord JefusChrift, 50 a 68
Sacred Biography, or the history ®f the
Patriarchs, by H. Hunter, 3 vols Bvo 6
A large afiortment of bibles, in folio, quarto,
i2mo and pocket, at various prices.
A large allowance to whalefale purchasers.
Catalogues of books, with the prices of each
book Annexed, are delivered as aforefaid.
1 may 17 2aw3w
i C A N N (Dp;
| Musket and Pistol Cartridge Papers,
A LARGF ASSORTMENT
, Is now ready for sale by William Young,
f Bookftler, No. 52, Second Street, the
corner of Chefuut jlreet.
OF WHOM MAV BE HAD
Baron Steuben s Regulations for the Order and J)ifci
plitte if the Troop: of the United States.— To nvhicb it
added, an aSt of Congreft concerning the Militia, price
50 cents ; do. large prints 67 cents.
| W. Young,
Has for sale, on the Itivejl terms, fbr eajb or negociable
Notes,
Large writing, printing & drafting paper,
ALSO,
Foolscap, Pop, Folio and 4 to. Pof of various f zet,
gilt and plain ; ink poivdcr,feallng wax, wafers, poeiet,
inkfands, Hack lead pencils', quills, rulers, cafe* of ma
n tbematical >nfruments, gunter scales, parchment and aft
C Jkin memorandum be-As, pen knives, India rubber and ink m
may 12 st>nvsw
C FOR SALE, ~
c At the Store of Jesse Isf Roset Waln,
On Spruce firtct H'fearf,
~ Port Wine inpipes, hhds.&qr. caflcs
n Lilbon Wine in pipes and quarter cnfks
i- And a few pipes of excellent Madeira Wine
t- may 16. eotf
: ~ c Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
>f Subscribers being the fix persons firft named
I- JL in the Letters Patent, iflued by the Governor
of this Commonwealth, by virtue of the Aft of Gen
eral Assembly »f the 16th ult, for incorporating the
Company —hereby give notice agreeable tq the 3d.
feftionof the said law, that they have appointed, and.
- heieby request a meeting of the fubferibers at the
State Houfc in the City of Philadelphia, on the thirty
firft day of this inttant. May, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon, for the purposes mentioned in the f«iid 3d
feftion, which is hereaiter publilhed for the inforxn
». ation ol the Stockholders.
Richard Petersy
j F John Perott,
i C Matthew M l Connelly
rc William Sheaff,
George Bickham,
Wibiam Nichols.
Philadelphia, lft May, 1798,
Seftion 3; And be it further enabled by the authority
eforejaid, That the fix Persons firft named in the Let
,n ters Patent, (hall as soon as conveniently may be as-
ter fealingthe fame, give notice in two or more pub
lic' News Papcis in Philadelphia, one whereof (hall
be in the German Language of a time and place by
)r them to be appointed, not less than thirty days from
the time ®f issuing the firft notice, at which time and
place the said fubferibers shall proceed to organize the
lD said Corporation, and (hall choose by a majority of
votes of the said fubferibers by ballot, to be delivered
e ~ in Person or by Proxy, duly authorized —one Preh
dent, twelve Dirc&ors, one Trcafurer, and such other
a " officers as they fha!l think necessary to eonduft the bu
finefsoithe said Company for one year, and until o
her officers shall bechofen, and may make such bye
. laws, rales, orders and regulations, not inconsistent
with the laws of this Commonwealth, as ne
ccfTary for the well ordering the affairs of the said com
pany •• Provided always, that no person (hall have
[\- more than fifty votes at any eleftion or in determining
t« any question arising at such meetings whatever num
-1 ber of shares he or she be entticd to, and thrt each
ift person (ball be entitled to one vote for every (hare
ill by him or her held under the said number.
*- ~ Tor sale,
" Two three ftcry Brick Houses
« With convenient fteres, wharf, &c. C;uatc on
« Water street, between Mulberry an-J SafTafraS
id Street 9, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
M i thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
j have the convenience of a public alley adjoin-
II- ! ing on the north fide, and area very defiraMefit
of nation for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others.
!te who may have occasion for iiorage of poods.
This property will be fold on very reafonabla
n " terms for ralh. For further information apply
" R to the printer.
:c > april q mScwtf
ier
For Sale,
oU A good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land,
or On the Old York road, within fight of Gcr
mantown, about five miles from thfeity;
ci the vehoJe being under good fence, and ia ex
on cellent order as pasture ground.
For rurther information and terms, apply tu
Jonn Elliott Cmsson, at his Office for the
sale of RealEftates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
HSgh-Urcet. 4th roo. 3d. tu&fut