//&y . •. .
oftije
"H.VMBER 1866, J
The price of this Gazette is eight
, Dollars a year- —Subscribers who reftde at
a (lijlancf frt»n the place oj'publication, and
•whose papers are sent per P a y f- x
month's fubfeription in ad-jance, and one ,
dollar annually for enclojing and directing
their papers. The payments to be always
jtX months in advance: b
- f 1
For Sale. t'
THE Subscrmer, intending to decline ths 11
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the "
•whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Inftrumcnts, &C. l f
Th- Ihop is elegant, commodious, and fadici-
ently known for the exu-nfive bu2nefs Cone in the
■wholesale an l retail line ; the situation equal to
*ny in the city, being at the eul ner of Walnut and
Second rtrcets. The whole, or any part of the ?
Stock, will be fold, a» will best suit the purchaser. '
Thi terms may he known, by applying to \
JAMES MOORE, juv. 1
Who has For Sale, 1
for the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and r.-markably 1
(lout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in ;
good order.
The Sali.y, about 30 tons, fails
■•tc!!, and in complete order for the lumberbufinefs.
Atl persons indebted to the late firm of I
Ct-Jihiwiit Baldwin. IV B Gritk!ne*it, GoU
thivait S3" Muare, or the fuWcri er, are earnestly
ftquefccd to make fptedy payment to
J.VMtS MOORE, jhn. 1
august 3 §
Ship & Insurance Broker,
Subfcriber, em ouraged by the advice
X of his friends, offers his fcrvice to the pub- .
lie as a Ship and Insurance Broker. H» pro
pofes'to buy and fell vessels and every thing re
lating thereto —assist matters of vessels and others
jn entering and clearing at the £uftom House,
procur ng and (hipping freight, fettling Inlut
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and have
on hand the necessary Blanks tnd Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and
given in general mercantile matters
—From a knowledge gained by lotrg experience
of every branch of business he hopes to be ufe
jful to these who plejfe to favor him with thair
fcommands. SAMUEL EMERY.
Philadelphia, august 44th,
FOR SALE,
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails assorted
JO bales as fail canvaft, from No. I to 8
53 cases yellow ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
London particular ? MaA6 i ra Wines
India market )
Tenenffe do. in hogfheadsand pip
Old Port do. in hhds.
Smpty Claret bottles ,
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Mullinets &c.
assorted Jor tbe Weft-India marked
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and 10 coils of cordage
Writing flutes, ink stands aad preflcs
SO pnrcheons Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine
160 bundles Iheathing paper
Nicklin (3* Griffith.
April 7 tulh&f - lf
STAMPS.
W. GRIFFITHS,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
BEGS leave to inform such perforx in the foath
ernpartof t*ie city (who may find it incon
venient to go farther up for their (lamps) that at
his Store, No. 177, South Second, near Sptucj
street, he has a generallupply for distribution.
He has jutlr c ivedfrom London, by the way
Of New York, an elegant affertme'nt of Mcrscco
Articles, viz.. travelling, dressing, wtiting and
dressing Cases, with lntlruments very eomplete ;
Pocket Books; Etwees; Thread Cases, Purses,
&c in the greatest variety and bell rnanuhicture.
LiL-wifi on band— Charts of every part of the
American Coast, Prints framed and glazed, Draw
ino- Books and Portable Defits, which, with his
usual f'ock, W. G. hopts will not be unworthy
the attention of ladi«s or gentlemen who make use
of lu.h goods. ,
A number of Imall Dutch RIFLES, cheap
July 30 " W 3 W
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine MADEIRA WINE
fit for immediate use, and at a reduced pin e— FOl
sale by JAMES YARD,
iulv 26. ert
03- Should a gentleman, a na
tive of Tenenffe, who haj been known in America by
the name of Lewis Martin Cevel at one time, and at
another by that of Lewis Cevel Pdlifer, be alive, and
will apply trs l.rnes Barry, of Baltimore, he will
hear of fomethi»« highly 10 his intereit. Or fhculd
he be dectafed, anyperfon who will addrcls a certi
ficate of his deal 1 -, properly authenticated, Will be re
warded with twenty dollars, by applying as above.
Mr Pellifer is iuppo(ed to be fotwc where in the (tate
or MalHichufetts.
augurt 1. ' *
Bafkenridge—tor sale
"fT consists of 910 acres, olmoft all of which i»
I a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Vrrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pffaick. r
Th on iti number of builoings, lormtng
afqiiare ot nearly three seres—The dWelUng house
in a very convenient one would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 finsbearlngengraf
e 1 Apple Tree*—and therfi is on other partssffonl
trad er 30P other Ap?le Trces-as also a great
v-.rie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries oi the
vbjft and most delicious kinds.
Mfo a number of beautijul Exotics ana
ToreftTre«s, that add to the beauty and eonveni
tlnce of the place. Its fiti*ticn is ah6ut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
fr„m Morris-Town, and i» Irom bpnngfield—lt
« wooded and,watered.
l"o favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incalh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEM & Co.
Ko. 78, Chflfnut treet.
<sl»uary 2. ewlt *
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 4, 1798.
ANOTHER STRONG PROOF
Of the great 2nd unparalleis ) efficay of
Dr. CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS, r
Ip. the Care of f,
Coughs, Colds, Asthmas tsf Consumptions. S
' ftetn-Yori, fuly to, '79®' t
To Dr. Chokcw, F
Sir, •
For upwards of Twelve Years, I havejla
bored under a fhortnels of breath
(pitting of matter from my lungs and often of
clotted hlood. till at length I was l"o reduced as
to be unable tor walk across my roam, and ow- „
ing to the vi lence of my cough and the Ihort
nefs of breath ceuld get no reft day or night.— ,
Hearing of your excellent medicine, ,ihe Cough J
Drops, I procured a bottle ; I took a dole as
soon as I got it, from which I found inftantane- f|
ous relief, and by continuing It for three days,
I bless God' lam restored to perfect health. As
1 believe you to have been the inflrtmient in the
hands of Providence, of saving my life, I muil {
intreat you to publish this for the benefit of any f
; who may be in my frtuaticn, as I am Confident
I it is one of the best medicines in the world iior
those complaints.
lam, Sir, your grateful servant,
NICHOLAS STAGG,
Little Rakinson-jtreet. 1
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
Are prepared and fold-by thelnventor and sole , 1
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Difpanfary,
Walhington-llreet, New-York, and at his of- (
sice, No t. South Th-.rd-ftreet, Philadelphia, 1
and fold by appointment at Mr WecdmanViu 5
Willijm-ftreet. and Stilwell & Defordt, 168 *
Pearl-street, New-York. Mancius, Albany#
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, Wil
son, Wilmington, Ac. >&c,
ob se r re,
A? a counterfeit preparation of thhmeV in.' (
has been industriously circulated tfcr-iu K feme ,
of the principal cities in the United States, per
sons are requested to purchale them of such per
form only as have Dr Church's appointment for ,
vending the fame. Powers, Poughkeepfie—
Chappel, Head of Elk—Bond and Co. New
caftle—Hein'ttfh, Lancafler —Blauvelt, Brunf
wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c.
Patients letters (Post paid) addrelTed to
Dr Church, New York, duly attended to.
august ao * aaw3w
This Day Publijhed,
And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No.
If 9 Chelnut-ftreet,
t (Price l-itb of a Dollar, J
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in commemoration of the »nni
verfary of American Independence.
By JoStAH S>JfrNCT.
" The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation —The wrongs we havefultained,
call for—Justice. That Reparation and that
Juftiee, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmne;s. But to divide and conquer was
the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Eden,
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
ple of all bis votaries from that period to the
present."
Observations en tlx Boston 'Port-Bill, \SJc.p.jt
by the late J. putney, jun.
au.guft ti
And immediate possession given ;
A Large convenient, well finilhed hoafe, No
High-street, lately occupied by Doc
tor Wiftar, with houfe and Stables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHE A FF,
Ho 168, Higb-Jfreet.
j">y a* $
FOR SALE, Br
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour
' july 19 i_
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
, of the newest and mod approvsd patterns,entitled
to the drawback, just received,
ass> roa sale by 4
Alex. J. Miller & Co.
'> No. 64, South Front street.
; may 18.
; OX BEEF.
: ?bo Barrels Jof Bef of best quality, put j
50 half Barrels J up with care for long voyages
ico Barrels of Connecticut Pork.
50 Barrels of Connedfici.it Tongues.
WINES.
; 35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
j 30 Pipes of Port
30 half calks of Sherry
30 Calks of Lilbon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
y 800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
II * ao Boxes of heft Durham Muftafrd.
i For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger's Wharf.
e may 4 eodtt
Just Received and.frr sale by
WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner of Second and Cbefnut Street—and at the
Ofiiceof the EJ.tor,prise 1 i6ths ofadollaT,
AN ORATION,
il Spoken at Hartford, on the Anniversary of lade
lt pendence, July 4, I^9B.
By THEODORE DWIGHT.
I For Sale,
d THE time of an indented NEGRO MAN,
Who is an excellent Coolu has about eight
year* to serve. A L S O, '
The time of an Indented hegro Bo},
Who is a good House Servant, and has about
[€ nine years to serve, they are both perfectly hon-
eft and sober For terms apply to No. 166
• South Front-flretr.
august 7 4awtf
To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
C N the South lide of Filbert Street, between
!" \J Eighth and Ninth street, formerly otcupied
a* the Surveyor Gcnrral's Othee-—Enquire atKo.
t- in, Chefimt Street,
august 10 Wit
By John Fenno, N° 119 Cbefnut Strett.
1 Notide is hereby given,
THAT application: willbe made to tlie Treafn- "|
ry of the United States, for" the runevr.l of the J
ioflowing Certificates of Six Per Cent Funded } fe
Stock, Handing iw the name of < CarlantU, of I f
Lsnddn, the said Certificates L e;n lofv on j "
I. ard the SiTiiiow Paclfet, C«pta a Kidd. from ii
Falmouth to New-York c
* ho. 3072 I Cert, for 2000 dolls. ~l
2964 I do. 5000 > v
10 >577 1 do 3000 j
Wilhngs & Francis.
Philadelphia, august 30. eo6w
'Twenty Dollars Reward,
T OST between Germantown and the middle 'f
Ferry, on the 19th inltant, a Small Red 3
Morocco Pocket Book, containing Bank Notes r
to the amount of oije hundred and fifty Dollars 5
arad upward—several other papers:hat cai: be of p
no use to any 01 her perfoo but the owner. ii
YViiofoever has found said Pocket Book and re
turns it to Ensign George W. Stall at the Camp
riear Schuylkill Ihall receive the above reward,
and no questions alked.
augull 30 6t
City Commiffiopers' Office,
August 30, t7<}B.
IN purfu;nce of an ordinance of the Sele<sl and
Commoa Councils, paffedthezid day of Miy, '
.1798, )
Proposals in writing will be received by the City
Comn.iflio»L-rs for one month lrom th« fir {I of Sep J
tember next, for letting to rent oa leafed for otic
year, to commence the Srfi day of Jauuajy next, I
the following public property of the city—
The wharf ,v d landing on Vii;slfcreet,
Also onSaffafras,
Mulberry, I
And {lfigh llreets. 1
Cbti'iiut asti-, V.'- l iut flrctti, Draw briflge,-with (
the Sc:.le and i iQi heui'es, Spruce, Pi'w -:ui Cedar ,
streets.
The Cellar under the City Hall.
The Tavern at the niiudle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto (except so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings erec
ted for the ufc of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
iiecfffar, for the toll gates.)
A Rated meeting of the City Commiflioners will
be held at the City Hallevery Tucfday morning 't
' ten o'clock, during the present epidemic eoim
Arrived in the Jhip Pennsylvania, Capt. Wil
liamson, from Hamburgh, iwu> lying at
Chejler.
A Number of GERM AN SERVANTS, men,
women, boys and girls, amongst whom are
Gunsmiths, Carpenters, Turners, Taylors, Black
smiths, Gardeners, Masons, Coachmen, Huntfnieti,
&c. &c whose time of servitude is to be difpof.d
of on board the Ship, by
GURNETS SMITH.
august »8.
W. Yojang, ~
BOOKSELLER STATIONER,
INFORMS his friends and wholesale cutlomers
in the country, who find it difagrsaable to en
ter the city during the present Fever, That orders
1 will be received, and executed with .11 possible dif
pateh, m the
WHITE-HALL PRINTING OFFICE,
In the t,hite building; above the Milestone, oa
! the Ridge-Road.
m t ' Hit customers ii rile city are also infnrmf d
that the Store in the City will be open, every day,
" Sunday excepted, from Nine until One of the dock,
august 29. dfvr
, James C. Iff Saml. W. Fijher,
No.- 13 Arch-Street,
Have for Sale
100 Calks bell refined Salt Petre
Best London Window Glass from 10 by 8 te
12 by 10
Ditto Glass Ware in Calks afiforted can filling
of pint' and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
Glades, Gobteis, &c.
ALSO,
A few Bales of Red, White and Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons,
june 17 3;awtl
. " CAUTION.
WHEREAS a certain perfonfwitidled
from mt ou the fifft inft. by giving
d me inlieuthereof a forged check on the Bank
of North America, anote of that date, drawn
in m* favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay
able in fix months, for three thousand four
hundred and fifty seven dollars and forty-fix
- cents. ALL persons are delired not to re
ceive any transfer of it, as it will not be
paid by either the drawer or endorser mil-fs
it recovered by law.
» WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
august 6.
The Public are hereby informed,
THAT I did not tr f ean to authorise Col. Will
iam Nichols to declare, that I would not pay,
unJefs rt covered by law, my note alluded to in his
it caution of the 6th of August, publiihed in the Ga
zette of the United States of laA evening. I fiu
cerely lament his lols, and t«§ld him I would do
all 1 could do confidently with my credit to furve
him, hut went no further*
JOHN TRAVIS.
august 7 §
FOR SALE,
_ The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Mot'teith Master. from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
ie 94? Fenegas of Cocoa
4000 lb. ol Flora Indigb
aio Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins
By Witlings & Francis.
No. Eleventh ftrcet.
—. July 2: dtf
Weft-Indian from Madeira.
i,
cd" Thafc Gentlemen who have Wines 1
on board the Welt-Indian are informed the is
now discharging at South-llreet Wharf, are f»-
ut licited to baflen down their perpiits, the Veflel
being immediately wanted, Peter Bight.
Who wants to Purebase,
ico Barrels of gcod Prime or Mess Beef
~ "100 ditto Pork
7 or 800 ditto fine Flour
4 orscoo bulhels Indian Corn.
Z A N 31 N G
,j From the Wist Indian,
0 A choice parcel of Phe/p's old particular
Wine in Pipes fit for Immediate use.
august ij stot
Lost 1 ester ddjy 1
BETWEEN the Wjr Office and George S ray
ley'sTavcru in Market street, or between his
fcuufe au J the upper Ferry on Schuylkill, A BAN K.
HILL OF ONK HUNDRED DOLLARS, rolled
t>p in it (null piece of piper. Whoever has fouii J ■'
it, -and vviii leave it with VTr. Sftrayley, shall rfc- c
ce : Vt ttn dottars thy* 1 ?* »s a reward- si
NB. The money belong* to a pfeor waggono, a
who is greatly dUUdTcd by the left. a
sept. 1 j
CAUTIO N. [
WHEREAS Richard Spilxnan, of Lunenburg
in Albany County, in the State of New-
York, obtained from me on or about the r6th of
' Oito!;er lalt, two bonds or notes fcr 1000 dolhrs .
aach, and one for jtco dollars, for which 1 have J r
• received no consideration whatever, and w|jich I
um di irrnuirej not to pay. I therefore ihink it 0
proper to forwatn all persons frotfi taking an af
lignmcnt or afliguments of any or either of them. (-
I'HILIP ARNDT.
New-Eafton, (Penn.) Aug. 25, '9B.
! *P r - 1 ,
Removal to j
From 136, Market-Street. \
£r Richard Bay Ley Sl Co. for i *
the accommodation of their friends during the pre- „
vailing Cckhe£. in the City, have oJ>eiicd a ft ore *
opposite to IJo-Sior Martina, where they wiU iiuu '
an afTortment of Chtatzes, Muslim, Ta
ble Linen, and every othfer arucle in the Linendi'a
pcry a v d Habei dalhery line. b
august: 29. diet
The Office of the Committee,
Appointed to fuperiutend th < building of the
Frigate to be Uaned to the United States, is remc*3
ved to No. 112 fcpruee lireet—of which thdfe gen
tleman who hiva not already come forward with
fubftription* will pleale to take notice.
ROBERT RITCHIE, W'T- '
«f|on«t 7
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS James Cummikg is" Co. late of '
the city of Philadelphia, msrciwnts, have |
afligsed over all their elTe.Xs, real, perioral and
mixed, to the iubferibers, for the benefit of all
their creditor?, who ft.all fubferibe the said allign
ment within fix months from the date hereof.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to allpeifons j
who are indebted to the said estate, that they are ,
required to make immndiattf payment of their rcf
peiilive accounts, to the Assignees, at their office,
No. 6a, Dock Oreet, in failure whereof acftions
will be inliituted for the recovery of such debts as
are not discharged accordingly.
'John Travis, *1
John IVaddinglon, t Affi
* James Taylor, f 0
Cornelius Comegys j
august 18 mwfuD
Pennsylvania Population Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the
Stockholders, that an aiTtffment o ! Sis
Dollars is levied on each (hare, —payable, one half
in 30, and the remainder in 60 days from the 3d
inl>. which they are requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 North Fouith ftreej, agreeably to the times
; above mentioned. The Proprietors wiMpieafeto
reroHeefc th* neceflity of being pun3ua!, other
wife the forfeiture of their (hares Will be incurred,
agreeably to the conOitution.
By Order of the Board.
SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry.
august 7 tuthsfm
FOR SALE,
r 4 the road leading to
within four and an halftnika of Philadelphia, I
containing 45 acres in the highest state of cultivation
—25 aeres ot which is meadow, the remainder up- j
land. There areon the preraifes, a new iramc House
arid B*rn, with an excellent kilchen warden, contain
ing a great r.uniber of frit Trees.—lmmediate posses
sion will be givon.
For terms apply to
Thomas IV. Francis»
. J
julv
Epidemic arid Pestilential Diseases.
I A DISSERTATION ON THE SOURCES THEREOF,
T N which it is attempted to prove from a nume
» 1 rous indudion »f fadts, th>t they never arise
: from contagion, bn: ave always produced by cer
-1 tain and viciflituies of rhe atmosphere.
By CHARLES MIE Calcutta.
This valuable work, together with a view of
the Science of Life, —and a i reatile on the adion
of Mercifty upon living bodies, and its applicati«n
- for the cure of diseases of indiredl debility
Neatly printed on line wove paper, and bound in
boards, are now to be had at
W. YOUNG'S Book Store,
The corner of Second and Chefnut streets,
(Price One Dollar.)
august 14
Bengal Goods,
CONSISTING GF
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
s Chintz ColTas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzziiyis Tcokcrcys
Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muslins
0 l.ong Drawers
e Coarile Sugars in bags, (it ior the European markets
ALSO,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee in hogsheads
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINE
For Sale, on reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
No. li, Dock-Ureet.
July 14 mwstf
Dodor GOURDES,
No. 28, Pine-Street ;
Late SURGEON in the armies of it. Domingo,
OFFERS his fervicea to the inhabitants of Phi
ladelphia in the line of hs proteflion. He
flatters himfclf that his long (occelsful experience
in the Weft-India prouure kirn 'ttie con
fidence of the citizen? of this city ; particularly
thofc attacked by the present Epidemic.
s aupullJs. eoj^t
, s gjr The Subscribers have retnov
rl ed for the present from Penn-ftreer to Elcventh
ftreet, between Filbert and Higb-flreets.
Willi rigs & Francis.
a«g«ft 9 'o i
'0- Wanted—Alituationin aPub
lic or Mcrrhirits Office, of to go as Supercargo,
by » person regularly htonqht up tQ the IVter-'
cantilr and Infurauce bufmefs in London, he has
btcly been a vpyage tfosn hence to the Welt-ln
ir dies as Supercargo, cjii be well recommended,
—l'.'eafc to enquire at tin; fruiter's,
a I.gull tt
T*rritorj of the Unite 3. States norfh-iuest of toe
River Ohio.
IVash'ington County, IT.
\Tf"HEt<EAS'a Writ if At'achmenthath if.
V » Joed but or", the court of Common Pleas
n said i trtjiity, dii'e&ed to the Sfct.ff ot laid
, rjftiirn.thff to Ji.ijs tern 1797.
fiiit of Giiffrn Oreec., cl'ij againf! C*oo'd»
and Chattels, Lands,Teneniei.t* ( Eff,.-ias, K'jjiit*
and Credits of Asa Harret, f r Seventy Doiwi.
■tlnd inhereii, tl.t said Sheriff h-tiiby virtue *f
said Writ 4;tacljeJ a Lot of Land lyiny in said
county, containing one liun.'red acregj -.he pro
perty of the I -rfendant. fl/OTlQs'ii, tfc-refore
given to the said Asa Barret ur.lefs he doth
appear ami give Special to the Atfioq,
Judgment w ill be entex*! by Defctilt, snd the
1 land will be fold as the liw
direili. Beijamr: Ives Cil>nax,
L'rothoaotary.
N< ':letiti t Jul, K th- 1708. 23WtW.
'"WILLIAM M'L&YVb,
SADLER (J HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnur
and Twelfth-ltreety, on the Commons,
where he wiUieceive and execute the orders of
his friends and who'efale cullomers, with nfua)
atteniioji & expedition during the privalence of
thepreftnt Epidemic, where it has not made its
appearance this feafyn, nor during any of the
years part.
, auvjufl aj $
FOR SAf.E, '
6 V THE iUSSfKISif.S, NO. JkLKVfc N TH-ST ftj lTfl
18 Bags Frei'h Cloves.
li'iUings !5* Franch.
;jwnc 9S), (J'.f
DUTY on CARRIAGES.
N<uice i s hereby given,
r \~:\.\T agiceabiy to t>n ait ot Congrel's of, the,
.a. Unit rt Stsre» 0/ Amefiea, jailed at Phila
delphia th« 28th day of M;;y, 1796, laying du- 1
ties cn carriages for the conVeysnce of perseus, and.
repealing the former afU for that purpose—That
there fhati be levied, coltefied and paid, irpon all.
1 carriages for the conveyance of perfoßs, which
Stall he kept hy or for any person, for his 01 her
own use, or to Ist ontto hire, or for the convey
. ing of paffei.'gers, tile several duties and rates (ol
' lowing, viz. doUs.
Far and upon every coach I^,
upon every chariot j 1
upon every pofl chariot \%
upon every j,oft chaise
upon every pha;ton, with or withputtop
upon every coachee sf*
upon other carriages, having pannel "J
work above, with blinds, glasses, > di,
or Ifertains j
upon four-wheel carriage*, having")
frame polls and tops, with steel ( 6
springs 3
upon four-wheel top carriages, with ")
; wooden or iron springs on jacks J"
upon curricles with tops y
upon chailes with tops 3
I upon chairs with tops 3
upon sulkies with taps
upon Other two wheel top carriages $_
I upon two wheel carriages with fteel>
or iron springs j *
For and upon all other two wheel carriages at
upon every four wheeled carriage,")
having framed potts a«td tojps, £ %
and relting upon wooden spars j
The Colleiftorof the revenue ol the firft divifioi*.
of the firft survey of the ditlriil of I'ennfyiv inia,
_ will attend daily until the 30th Jay of September
next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
, carriages, at Germantown, on the Main Rreet, z
, little above the.fijn of the King ps Prussia, of
f> which all persons poffeOTed of such carriages am
- desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
To all retail dealers in wines and foreign difHJJerf
spirituous liquors, that licenses will be granted to
thern ; one licence for carrying on the business of
retailing of win:s in a less quantity, or in left
uantities, than 30 gallon;— and one lieenre for.
arrying on the business ef retailing spirituous li«
quors in less quantities than twtnty g illons, at the
• lame time and at the fame place, by
J.AMES ASH,
[- Collector of the ift diviion of the Ifk
of thediftritfl of Pennsylvania*
■- Office of lnfpetflion at Germantown, ")
lid Auguil, 17^8. y
0" Every, denomination of Stamps to be had
>f at said office,
n __
" The Stamp Prefsis removedl
II to the Office of Infptilion in Germantown, on the
Maih • rert, a little above the fijfn of the King ot
Prussia, where attendance will be given far the
accommodation of those who wiihany inftrsment*
Damped, on Tucfdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.
august it
" PETER BLIGHT
HASTMnpvjd his Counting Iloufe to his House
in the Northern Liberties near Nice J'owil, Ger
mantown road.
august at. tf
~ Mr. LENIZ, ' "
TeacheY of the Piano Forte,
ts T) ESFiiCTFULLY offers his serviceS to ab>
i\-tc;nd his Icholars and others at Gerxtrantowi»
—should as many as Twelvte requefk his attend**
ance he will wait 011 them immediately.—Please
ra to direil to the Printer of the Gazette of tha
United Stales.
augult to *jw
Patent Ploughs,
be fold for rash hy Joseph Salter at Atliorr
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Marker, Woodbury—and JefTe Evans, Lumber
ten, Those who have used them give them the
, preference to itiy other kind, as they require
it- !efs team, breiK the ground better, are kept ins
fe wrder at left expence and arf fold at a cheaper
ce rate—the plan is much and confiftsof
n- but one piece of calf iron, with the handles and
ly beam of wood ; thrv may beSxed with wroughc
lavs and coulters to be put on witb screws and.
taken off at plealure
j. Patent tights fqwending with inftruflions for
j,. making them may be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. Hi North
Fu>nt-i!reet.
1 Who hat for Sale i
Or tn l.en/e for a term of Y fart,
> A number or valuable trails of Land, weH
Q) fituattd fer Mills, Iron A'orks or Farms, molt
-r.« ly improved, lying chi<-flv in the county of Huu
a9 tingdoo Date of Pennsylvania. Those who may
n . incline to view them will please to apply t*
(j ( John Cr.nsii el'q. r,esr Huntingdon.
Clarht Ncwlold.
jii'y '7 . aawtf
;U y 17
{Volume XIV.itit iiw iiKiiwma
C. . , • I. <«
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY SVENING, SEPTEMBER 4.
HEALTH-OFFICE,
September 1, 1798.
Fellow-Citizens,
Impelled by the awful progress and nr.-
paralieled malignity of the prevailing fever,
we are coniirained to address your feelings,
as well as your reason, in order to avert the
fatal, deftru&ion which, with rapid strides,
is pervading our ill fated city and suburbs.
The belt (kill of our physicians, and all
the powers of n.Wicine, it must be acknow
ledged, have proved unequal in the contest
with this devouring poison-
Wit'; the most affefling fympatby and
anxious folfsitude, we have to the best of
our judgments, endeavoured to employ, as
circumftanceß 3ppC3red to require, 4 the pow
er and the means entrofted to us, in arrest
ing its progress, and allevbtTilr its concomi
tant miferieS. We fli.ill conMsinfi to em
ploy theiri with unrtyiitting zeal; but we
have neither the power nor ihe meani- 'o
accomplish all the measures neceflary
to check its extenfion,'or provide for the
prefling exigencies of the moment. The'
pov/ers del-gated, and appropriations made
by law. to the institutions under our direc
tion, are impotent indeed, when compared
to the magnitude of the occasion.
It remains for our fellow citizens to at
tain, by their energy, the ends which alone
tan stop its progress and diminifli its honors.
We have, i'l conjun&ion with the Guar
dians of the Poor, caused tents to be ered
ed on the eafl bank of the Schuylkill, for
the accommodation of the indigent ; where
near twelve hundred are already provided
for, out of the fund appropriated for tha or
dinary relief of the poor. This is but a
partial rnp«ati" o! '' «»f the evils wMch
- environ thousands who have a claim upon
the philanthropy of those who are ia more
fortunate circttmfiances.
The d iHiculty of preparing a place of re
fuse) atprcfent, fai the country, is too well
known 5 nnd the expence attending the re
moval of a family has discouraged many
iron the attempt, who are in circumftanccs
to live comfortably at home.
What to be done ? Citizens of
refpeflability and influence 1 Come forward,
and form yotirfelves into a committee for
the purpose of ereding on the weft bank
of the Schuylkill, alt the tents that can be
collefted; let the tents be floored with
boards, and made as comfortable as poflible ;
if tents cannot be had, boards in abundance
may be procured for the ere&ion of filed,l.
Admonifn those citizens who have no place
of refuge, to take flielter there, particulirly
theft from the raft part of the city, the dif
trift of Southwark, andthe Northern Libfr- 1
ties—in fliort, ALL who can leave their
homes without manifeft injury ; except
those who are neceflary for the proteftion
of the city and liberties.
The cotnmittce fliould have the general
i'uperiKtendai.ce and regulation of the tents,
and authority to preserve order ; contract
for certain fitppli- s of bread, meat, vegeta
ble?, wood, &c. at the lowest poflible rate's.
Those who are not in circumstances to pay,
must be supplied by pußlic bounty.
It is at best an unequal, perhaps an unjust
mode of raifirg money by an appeal to the
humaniiy of generous individuals ; but ifon
any cccafion it may be jHftified, the present
jnay be afiumed without hesitation.
We call your attentiofi to the aftual and
undifpuifed state of our city. Consider the :
mortality and rapid increase of the sick at so 1
a period. View the lift of your phy
sicians, and mark how'few are at their pojls ; 1
ar.d we belfeve ycu will think with 11s, that
the preservation of health is onlv to be at- 1
tained by flight. ;
Do not flatter yourselves, fellow-citizen*, 1
that this picture is too highly coloured . we '
speak from convifiion, and a knowledge ef 1
facSVs ; and doubt not, luf that the lives of I
. hundreds, perhaps of thousands, nlay be pre- 1
fti ved by the adoption of these or limilar 1
mcafures. 1
By order of the Board of Managers of f
the Marne and City Hospitals. t
WILLIAM JONES, President.
Attest,
Wm. Penrose, Clerk protem.
Agreeable to notification in fcveral of the f
the City of Philadelphia, fe~ {
qutljiiig a meeting of the merchants, trad- e
m, mechanics and other citizens, at the t
Union School House in Germantown, on e
Wednesday 29th August. at 4 o'clock P. a
M. in order to fix on a suitable charafter to a
be offered at the ensuing eleftion to repre- v
sent the -City of Philadelphia in Congress, I
in the vacancy occalioned by the deccafe of a
John Swanwick, Esq. and also in the next il
Congress—A senator, to represent in the I
state senate, the city of Philadelphia and li
County of Delaware—and fix persons tore- w
jirefeii» the city in the house of aflembly.— ti
A numerous and refpe£table body of the si
of ihe city attenced. The bufi- 1
tiefs of the meeting being opeued. a letter h
from captain Joseph Anthony, addrcfTed to it
the chairman of the meeting was read, ex- ti
prefling a decided opinion on the necessity t;
of »niting the interelt of tlie fiends of the vv
constitution and government in the choice h
of their repreftntative,that he conceivrtl Mr. tl
P„oba tWaln well quahfieef for a feat in c(
Congress, and soliciting his ft How citizens
t.hat his name may not be offered in compe- tt
tition with that geptJeman, Who has hf's Jul- at
soncuiretjce and approbation. si
ROBERT WALN, h<
was nopinated and unaniinoiifly carried as al
the Candidate for Cong cfs. Nt
FRANCIS GURNEY, < f
as ft te Senator for the di«'t riiit compoled of j b<
ii:e Ctty and County of Philadelphia and ' di
2? - C'ountyof Delaware; and as members tore
| prefcnt the City in afTenjbly—
I Jacob Hillzheimer,
__ J , Lawrence Seckel,
!. Andrew Bayard,
I'/iltidm Hall, printer.
Samuel IV. Fi/hgr,
jfohn Clement Stacker.
The question being put, will this meeting
support the foregoing ticket ? it was unani
. moufly agreed to, and it was also recom
mended to the freemen of the City of Pbi-
I ladelphia attached to the federal government
r,- for their support, and to-thofe of the Conn
r, ty of Philadelphia and County of Delaware
s, in support of the Senator.
Ie Ordered, that the minntesofthe meeting,
s, jfigned by the chairman aad secretary, be
pubKjhtd in the newfpafjgrs of the City, for
ill +he general information of the ele&ors.
v. , LEVI HOLLINGS WORTH,
'ft Chairman.
Dahiel Smith, Secretary.
id Germantown, 29 tb Augujl, 1 798.
as
,s From the (N. Y ) Commercial Advcrtlfe*.
A GOOD THING IN TlMii OF
t- SICKNESS.
i- A number of eflays in the q
contain abundance of in recorrimenda
-e tion of Lime as a destroyer of peih'hnTial
0 air. The p raft Ice is without doubt very
y judicious, and ought to be obf«rted by all
e lioufr--k.eepers in the United States. Limj
t ia powder fhculd be ftrcwed in cellars, al
e leys and paflages frequently : and thrown
into finks and privies. This practice ought
d never to be omitted. The publishers' of;
almanacs, orimers and elemeuta-y books for I
children, (hould insert this maxim, " that ]
e Lime is the destroyer of infectious vspours.'*"
s. But excellent as Limp is, it is not so conve
-. nier.t as might be wi(he<l for at all places."
. It is tmfightly to be fprinided about the
r rooms of houses, a;d is apt to be tracked
e every where above and below (lairs. This
1 has proba' ly p evented the life of so whole
•. fom ■ a thing in sick climbers.
a : here are however other fubilances, puf
-1 feffing mahy qualities in common with Lime,
1 and oi" fu peri or ftrcngth and virtue, which
may be employed with great advantage to
iv rcome. contaminated air in places where
. sick peifons lie. I m<an Potato. Pearl alh,
[ Salt of Tartar, Kelp aud Barilla. These
Alkajine salts are foltie of the most perfect
purifiers iti nature. They are. cheap and
easy to be procured by every body. They
difiolve most readily in water, and in that
for.n may be fpriukled over the floors, entries
and Jliirs, which they will keep clean and
sweet beyond every tiling which has ever
been tried. Noxious and contagious mat
t;rs floating io the air are attraaed by these
Salts and taken out of circulation. They
then float about do more to poison th%in
habitants. I' is au astonishing thing, that
notwiihftanding the wholesome properties
of these substances, they have been negledt
ed so long. Their unparelleled vi.tues
fhauld be held forth to public notice in the
, newfpaper3, talked of at the corners of the
ftrects, and ;tnprefl'ed upon the mind.of
every house keeper. ' It would be right in
times of fickneis to have them proclaimed
by the bell-man—and the watchman, when
he cries the hour, fliould add, that al! the
citizens might hear him, JprinUe your Jloors
with Pota/h or Barilla.
It has been affirmed that funjigations with
acids of various kinds have done wonders.
Neither Vinegar, nor Aqua-fortis, nor Brime
ftone, nor any other of the tribe ever did any
good. They only render f.,e former foul
smell imperseptible by ftirmilating the nostrils
morepowerfully themselves.and are therefore
not to be trusted. Even in the British na
vy where the most noise was made about
them, they are going into difrepnte, and
acknowledged to do more hurt thati good.
They add to ihe mass of unrefpirable air,
and do not overpower it by their opposite qua
lities as alkalies do.
Besides the healthiness of employing Al.
kahne Salts, the ladies will approve them on
account of their cleanness. They are ene
mies to all manner of dirt. The floor (for '
there (hould be 110 carpets on a lick man's
rsom in hot weather) is in due preparation 1
for fcourincr. And nothing in nature equals 1
the ease and elegance of this mode of cor- 1
reding the vitiated state of the atmosphere. 1
Adopt this method, house-keepers, and be !
fafe ; and advise all your neighbours to do 1
the like. ,
ADM ON t S HER. <
. I
COMMUNICATION. 1
Among the truths on which- the peace,
fafety and independence of our country de- r
psnd, every true Iteart should believe, and c
every federal tongue (hould enforce this,
that the master paflions of the French gov
ernment, jnd very probdbly of that corrupt £
and vain nation too, are the thirst for power j
and for plunder ; and therefore, reader, ~
whosoever you may be, (unless you are a t'
French partizan, and then we do not vvilh ii
any tohger to call you reader) you will fee, v
if you are not blind, that no peace with "
France can be nv.de, saving to ourselves !-'
liberty and independence. No peace that
will reftraipi plunder and baffle their ambi- r ,
tion, would be ofFere.!, or it solemnly rati- tl
fied, long obierved by these Algtrine?. IN
Therefore again, reader, if your American c:
heart is any bigger than a chicken's, trust °
it,, and its honest energy, to assert ohr coun-
try's right, sooner. than any fly, trickifli trea- J 2
ty with these perfidious usurpers No other j%v
will the DireSory make till they grow, j?
honest and prefer the principles of justice to !
their own cupidity. When the white crows 11
come then trust them. w
Another truth, tlytt every true man on
the weft fide of the mountain in Vermont,
and every fnch man in Virginia, (hould trea- la
fine up in his heart, and urge upon tl;e i w
honest among his neighbors, s this, that I to
all the damning evidence of the dispatches j ' JC
never cured one Jacobin member of Cortgrefs j j* r
< f liis French d'fenf*. Not oh« black heart |
became pure, by all that wafliing. The j[ u
doubting, trimmiug, halt way dolts were j pc
re- about half brought ever ia cor.fequtit:*. nid
they voted for tlie moD part on the Ameriean
fide. Had not tJie difpateftfs reached the.
pe-ple, these waxen folkn Vvguld lirfve
rt^tJieJ- more half ari'i, as wealc men,
efpecjbily if generally are. L-t
the citizens theu know, and Ift them feel, as
if they knew it, by a Voice of thunder,
ing threatening their docyn. that their work of
»ni- salvation is btit half done, till Veriisont', Vir
im- ginia, &c. turn out the man of fin, which is.
'hi- French, and corrup', and abTpninable, from
ent Congr fs. They mult that body
»n- thoroughly. Cast otn every French devil,
'are eve y unclean spirit, that yet poficfTes- it.
Then, we may be fafe, ar.d not til) then,
ng, wide' our own vine and figiree, and no
be frenchman, nor Algerine, norjaenhifi fh II
for make us afraid. (Ffirkier's W. Muf.)
From J )l;n RufTeil's Commercial Gazette
-7 n CH : M: 5 AI.'.EYR !ND. former
ly Bi/iop of Autu'n, lately a wandering crtt
g-ant in the Unit; t States, nolo, Minister of
fei-. ' Foreign Relations to the Fremh Republic.
BOSTON, AUGUST IJ.
HONF.ST C4TIZEV,
•jrs j I HAVE, just met with your letters to
da-i Mfc Gekry, dated May 30, June i, and
tial | J fine 4 th, in which you beg him to let you
try- i know immediately the names of the perfjns
all i dehgnated in the Dapatc'nes from our Ea
rn.- ; veys Extraordinary by the letters W. X. Y.
al- | and Z. and the nanne of your female friend
wn ! who conversed wish Mr. Pinckney on Arae
■ litrican affairs. It is rather an extraordinary
of' request from one who knows them much
for • better than Mr. Gerry does ; however, as I
la t | have the higbeft opinion of your purify,
I am willing to place it to the score of for
ve- getfubefs. Talleyrand Perigord can nev
es. er be ft;fpe£icd of prevarication or decep
he tiun. I w;fh it was in mv power to fatis
ed fy you* as to all of them, but as it 13 my
i,; s trusfoitune not to be able to do this, I hasten
ie- t0 inform you Z. is the French Gentleman
who introduced Mr. Gerry to y&u on the
>f. 28th of ®ctobr last, and between whom,
ie, Mr Gerry and yeurfelf a long Cor.verfation
en to °k place, which is given in the difpatcbes
to of ion- Envoys to their government, arid
re which I have here fele&ed to refirefh your
h, memory. Vide No. 2.
fe M. Y. took a nde to fee you with Mr.
a Gerry, on the 17th of December, at which
id time you told M-. Gerry that the propo
:y fitjftns M. Y. had made from you werejuft, ,
at and*that.his information waj always to be
es relied on. Vide No. 3.
id lam not pofTefied of any documents to
er enable me to recall to your recollection the
t. other personages viz. W. X. and the La
fe Jy, but am in hopc3 it will soon be in *ny
•y power. Mr. Gerry we are told has given
a- you the names of XY. and Z. under his
at hand and seals but, you appear to have
eg plunged so deeply in the Lethean flream,
that it is probable they have long before this
es escaped your recollection.
Ie I am not unacquainted citizen minister
ie with the predile&ion rfyour countrymen to
if forget. Mr. Genet desired to thank God
in that he had forgotten " the worm eaten rfe
:d cords of elder times, the musty proscription
n of fuper-anuup ed wisdom the laws of pa
le tiom defined by Grotiu*, Puffendorf, and
rs Vattel, where they were all in chains." You
citizen Minister have improved upon this
h plan ; he was content with forgetting the
s. absurdities of antiquity, but you with equal
grace and adroitness forget the molt recent
y tranfadb'ons of our own days ; those tOQ in
j1 which yourfelf have figured, and which can-
Is not fail to consign you to cveriafting infamy,
■e Accept citizen Minister the afl'urauces of
i- my profound esteem.
.t A TRUE AMERICAN,
d —-
I. Extratfs from the Dispatches of C. C. Pirtck- 1
ney, J. Marshall, and E. Gerry, to Mr. 1
Pickering, Secretary of State, of the United !
States.
1.
n " On" Saturday the 14th, major Moumflo- 1
. rence informed gtneral Pinticney, thai he had a c
•" tonverfaticn with Mr. Ofraond, the private t
r and confidential secretary of the Mini/lcr of \
s Foreign Affairs, who to!d him, that the Direc- a
n tory were greatly exasperated at some parts of ■
[ s (he fpeeeh, at the «pening ot the last r
leffion ef Congress, and would require an ex- '
planatiyn of thtm from us. The particular 3
parts were not mentioned. In another converf- c
e ation on the fame day, the focretary informed J
0 the major, that the Minister had t'old him it
was probable we flwuld not have a public au
dience of the D-ireflory uMil fueh time as our p
negociation was finilhed; that probacy persons
might be appoinred to treat with t'3, hut they
report to him, and he ivauld have the
> direilion of the negociation. The major rtid 2
- not conceal from Mr. Ofntond his intention to
3 communicate these eonvsrfations to us "
, [No. lI.J *
On the 226 of Oflober, M. Z. a French m
t gentleman of refneflabl- charatfer, informed
Mr. Gerry that M. Talleyrar.d, Minister of '
Foreign relations, who profefied to be well dif A"
> pofetl towards the United Sia es, had expected yt
1 to have Teen the Ameriean Minij}«rs frequently f h
1 in their private capacities, and to have conferred
, w i' h them indivKiually on the cbjeftj of their >
, mission; and had authorized M. Z. to make I
, this communication to Mr. Gerry. The latter
' sent far his colleagues, and a conference was
held with M. Z-. on the fubjert, in which gene
■ ral Pinckney and general' Marshall exprefled to
- their opinions, that not being acquainted with
. M. Talleyrand, thtv could not with propriety c
i on him; but that according to the cuftcin
. of France, he might expeit this of Mr. Gerry,
| from a previous acquaintance in America. This '
Mr Gerry rebnSiantly complied with on the I
! atd, and with M. Z. cail.d on M. Talleyrand, op
1 I who not being then at his cilice, appointed the ch
; 38th. foe ihe interview. After the firft irnro- fa
j duilion, Mi Talleyrand-begnn the conference.
He ir.id-, that the direilory had passed an arrete, n
, which he offered for pcrufal, in which they had -<
demanded of the envoy an explanation of some VL
parts, and a reparatioii of others, of the PreQ
fulent's fpeeeh to Con j eft, of the 16th of May in
I last: He was fenfihle, he laid, that difiieulti<i no
j would exist on the parr of the Envoys relative r r .
|to this demand, but that by their off, ring money n
1 he thought he could ptev'ent the ess. & of the
Jan cite. M. Z. at itie ri quest of Mr. Gerry, re '
'having stated ;hat the envoys had no such c "
j powers; M. T/.lieyranrt replied, they can in
j such c:ife take a power on themselves, and' prov p,,
j that they should stake a loan.. Mr. Gerry* m
nd then afldreffeij M. Ta!leyri*4 diftinSly in
:an puglifh, which he said he un-ierltoid, and
stated that the ynealinefs of the Direilory re
lulting from the PrefidentJl, fpeeeh wa» a fub
jeil unconnedted with tf)e of their ntif-
Qou: That M. Baro«j in his fpeeeh t« Mr.
Monroe, On his recall, had exprclfed himfelf 111
as a manner difpkafing to the governmift.t and
er, citizens of the United States; that the President,
0 f as the envoys conc<pred, had made such obfer-
j r vativns on Mr. Barras fpeeeh a« were neceflary
to tindieate the honour of the United States.
1S That this was not confidcred by out govern
,Hn meat as a fubjeii of dispute between the two
uy nations ; tkit having no inftvutJlioijs refptfling
al, 't> we couid not rtuke any explanations of re
jt. paration relitisg to jt ; and, that M. Talley
.j! ran '' h'mftlf was fufiiciently acquainted with the
' 'Xotilhi'.'.'.io'; of the United States to be convinced
"u 'hefrwiirervations. IVir. Gerry further Hatsd,
that th<f powers of the Envoys, as they coateiv-
J % ei), w-i r e adequate to the dilcullioti an«l adjult
inen! of til porKs of difference between the
'wo nations; that they could aittr and amend
the treitv, or, if nei effary, form a new one;
•r- that the United Stitrs were an-:;ouily delirou;
of feiT")vit]g all, cauies of complaint bftween
themselves and France, and of reneVigg "their \
°J former friendlhrp and intercourse, on tenns i
which fhouid be mutually honeuraWe jj'nd be- j
neficia! to the two nations; but not on any'
other terms; that a» lo a loan, we had nq powers
to whatever to make one; that if we were to at
nu - it, we fnould deceive himfeif and the
Direilory, which as men of honour we could
not do; but that we coul i fend one of our
ns number for inftru<fttons on tliis proportion, il j
n- dec med expedient, p,rovi<fed that the other ob- j
Y, je<Ss of the nej;oc ; ation could be discussed and j
id adjuftcd; that as he had c-xpreffed a desire to J
confer with the Envoys individually, it w,i S the '
w:i}) of Mr. Geny that such a conference fhouid j
•h r theiropinion»thus be ascertained,
wliich he conceived correfpondcd with his own,
I in the partisu'ars mentioned. M. Talleyrand
y, in answer said, he fhouid be glad to confer with
•r- 'he other envoys individually, Suit that this
f . matter about the money rauft be fettled direflly,
without fending te America; that he would not
r coiptnunicate the arrette for a week; and that
if we couid adjust the difficulty refpetfing the
»y fpeeeh, an application would nevertheless go to
. u the United States for a loan. A courier arriving
111 at this moment from Italy, arid JvJ. Talleyrand
je appearing, impatient to read the letters, Mr.
n Geny took leave of hira immediately. He fol
lowcd t0 door, and desired M. Z. ro repeat
'° , Mr - cr ry what he, ttf. Talleyrand, had *
• ' laid to him. Mr. Gerry then returned to his
n quarters with M. Z took down the particulars
tr of Us interview, as before slated, fcnt for gene- „
rals Pinckney and Marshall, and read it to tkem j
!', ' n the preience of M. Z. who confirmed, it. I
b Gene-als Pinckney and MarfhaT then desired j .
>. ?". t0 ™f° rni Mr. Taileyrand that <hey had
nothing to add tO'this coni#renre, and did not
■ wish the airette might be delaye4 on their ac
e count." ,
[No. Ill]
0 " '• an< * r - Gerry then took arrde to M. ,
e Talleyrand's Bureau, who received them politely ;
and after being,featcd, \f r . Gerry ohferved to M
" Talleyrand, 'n flov/ly, that M. Y, had '
y flat-'d to him that morning some pyopofition* as t
n coming from M.Talleyrand, refpe&ing which Mr. t
8 G f rl T ,:onld B ivc no opinion ; that this objeil at £
this time wa«, to feqaeft of him information wha
ther he woul/1 fix a time for taking a dinner wirh 6
'' r - Gerry,-at which he propofsd to invite his
S colleagues ; that he wiflicd for more fraqaenc in-
tcrviews ot some kind or. other between himfeif
r and the Envoys : c Onceitfing that many imaginary c
dilticulties whith oDltruiied the negotiatian would
vanish by this means ; and that those which were
1 real would be furmcunted ; that conceiving the de '
lieate part which the Minister ot France had to '
1 at this titae._ he iid not wish T. to accept t
the inyita.ico i' it fubjeet him to inconvso- -
j ic.ices : Dvst he wifhi-d to l'peak on another fub
jedt ; and it was j ainful to him to acknowledge
t that the precarious situation of the envoys was
s fijeh as tu Tender it it impossible for th'.m to take 0
e measures- for ckcrat arrangements; that a short
j time since he had fnppofed measures were taking a
favorable turn ; but that lately he had received,
from various <;uartcrs, information of a report
1 made by ths minister of the interior, and u d-r
. the confnleratlon of the 4ireitory, for fending all
. Americans from Paris in twenty four hours ; that
f he could not berefponfible for the tr.uthof the in
formation, bet it appeared to him, as well from
the various quarter's from which it came, as from
the intelligence of the person who gave it, to be
highly probable; that if this wasthe cafe, it was
. upnecenary for the directory, as he cpnceived, to
. ptf* any arrete, as it rcfpe&td the envoys, for that
j they would depart from Paris whenever it was
hinted is the wish of the direflory ; that for his e
own part he fhouid fee) more at-cafe, until we si
W2te received, to refidc in a city of some other ],
nation that) that of France; and to return to Paris
1 on notice tl.at the directory were uif'pafetl to open 0
■ the negfitiatioil. M. Talleyrand appeared to be
t very uueafy at this declaration ; but avoiiled faying a
• award on it. He said, that the information M, it
: Y. hadgivefl me was just, and might always be f
; relied on : lint that he wauld reduce to writing
Im propiufitioni r which he accordingly jjid ; and 3
. after he had shewn them to Mr. Garry, he burnt
. the paper. The fubliauce was as follows—l See tl
N0...] L t ,
He then said, that he accepre J of the invitation ; '.
that he wouid drne with him tlij? decade after the
prefeßt 111 which he was engaged. "
tt
FOR THE CCLVMBIJtti MIRROR. W
- \ il
Mr, Gird, in
The following extract *f a letter from a P<
gentleman of refpeßalility in a dtflaht county, P 1
may be worthy of a plate in your.pa- t!'
per. vc
■ « Though lam remote from the theatrf >fpo- j "
lilies, and have rejigned myp4f-t to those •whom til
youth and vigor enable, to fupp rt it.-yet do not it
suppose that I remain a calm spectator of the w
insult and violence offered to my country, or am 't
backward in bejlowing my utmojl applause on our hi
President for his wisdom, patriotifn, andfirm- at '
ness. ' of
In the several answers of President Adams, "c
to the immense number of approbatory addresses th
which pour in from every part of the United a 1
States, I fee the fettled opinions of a mind, of by
which age has not damped the ardor, nor clou• so
ded the dfcernment. In one 'fthefe answers, j> e
I was flruclc with the truth of the following th
opinion—' That a navy will fe found to be the cr
trheaprfl defence of the United States of s.mer • pr
icti, end the inly thflttg which can prevent the a 1
dangerous rtecej/ity of a Jhmding army/ that it of
fir ngthent us on that part where alone we are ! P
vidnerdie to European powers.' j ii*v
"Itis a ple,y r ;r,g circumflance to fee that i H
in a former part, of his life, Mr. Jfferfcn, de
now the Cclcffus of oppojition publijhcd the
ftene opinion, and proved it almofl to demon til!
Jradorn. Surely the oppJUUn, party hake ral
read tb'ts part of their idol pndojophcr*s Note r 1 Ve
en Virginia, or their opinions on that fuljdel I 9
would have been mare consonant with his-, but tht
probably he has put the seal of condemnation on ' fca
on that page, btec.vft its pre sent efftSs would f'j
in A piratical emoluments of th 4.
s( ' darling the followingo pini.
' ~ out are now entirely forfaken by the Vice Pre/!.
! deM, or are made to bell i tocircumfianccs, to'beex•
7 r tended to one nation, and to be narrowed in
it) their operations agninjl another, it to you or me
nd of little concern; thry are foflridly true, ft for.
Nt, cibly developed, ir.d dearly calculatedt so ne
'r ~ re/fary to be known and imbibed by his feßta•
"7 ries and the friends of the sflallifhed govern*
tnent, that I flail tranfcrile them from page
wo 2 54 °f JdfcM's Notei on Virginia,printed
ng by Mat. Carey Phitidelphia:
re- "IVars then mufl sometimes be our lot•, and
all the wife can do, will be to avoid that half
e'd m rjJ^ " WOV M b e produced by our own
I fillies Und our own ads of uijuflice; and to make
f v ! for the other half the bej preparations we can.
fl. Of ivh.it naturefhouldthefe be ? A. land army
he would be ufclefs for offence, and not the bed
nd For fafeft instrument of defence. For either
; of these purposes, the feaisthe field on which
•ir ' tlcment ' {t is necessary we should pqffefs some
ns ! p ower « To aim at such a navy as the grea
ts. | ter nations of Europe ptffefs, ••could be a foe
ly \lijh and wicked waft; of tlx energies of our
r3 countrymen. It would be to pull on »ur own
, beat's that load of ni'litary expence which makes
M the European laborer go fuppetlefs to bed. and
nr moijlens his bread with the sweat ofhisbrow. It
it cough if we enable ourselves to prevent
b- irfuits from those nations of Europe which are
id j weak on the sea, b.-cauje f ircumjianc s exijl,
to j which render even the fir anger ones weak as t»
j Uil Providence has placed their riehefl and
I, defencelefs poJffioHs at our doors—has
a, °blig'd their moss p-ecious tomni-rce to pass ai it
d wert review before us. ToproteSthisi
h or to a/fail a fmctll 'part only of their na
!c -veilforce will ever b; rifqved acrvfs the Allan
tic. The dangers to which the element expose
( ' t them here are too well kn»wn' x and the greater
c dangers to whi h they would be expfedat home
0 were any general calamity to involve their
% whole feet. They can attack us by detachment
d only; and h willfuKcC to make ourselves equal
'■ 1° whist they myr ItfacS. Even a smaller force
1 ' than they m.iy detach will be rendered equal or
j superior by the quickness with which any check
8 may be repaired with us, white bffes with them
5 will he irreparable till too late. A small naval
- force then is fujkientfor us, and a small one
<x is necessary. What this should be, I will not un.
■ undertake to fay, I will only fay, it should by
j no me '"" be so great as we are able to make it.
, ™pp°f* 'he million of dollars, or jOo,»co/.
- wh'ich Virginia could anually spare without
dijlrefs, to.be applied to the creating a navy.
■Ajingle year's contribution would build, equifi^
■ man, and fend to sea a force which would
' carr y 300 guns. The rejl of the confederacy,
[ exerting themfehes in the fame proportion, would
s equip in the fame tim< 1500 guns more. S»
. that one year's contributions wouldfet up a navv
■ of I 800 guns. The British ships of the line
average 70 guns, their frigates 38. jgoo
>! g TS , f orm a -A'* °f 30 ships,
18 of which might be of the tine, and it fri.
gates. .Allowing 8 men, the Bntifb aver
age for every gun, their annual expence,
including fubfi/lence, a talking,pay, and ordina.
ry repairs, would be about 1280 dollars for
wry gun, or 2,304.000 dollars forth whole.
I fate this only as one year's pojjible exertion,
without deciding whether more or less than a
year's exertion should be thus applied-"
A FARMER.
y" " " — 1 ■
LATSST
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
By the Jane from Glasgow.
LONDON, June 15.
Extradl of a letter from an officer of his ma
jesty' ship Renornmee, to a gentleman of
Haflar Hofphal, dated Cape Nichola
Male, Weft-Indies, March 21.
" On Friday evening, the 3d of thi»
month, Mr. Alderfon, our caipeiiter, enter
ed tbe gun-room, and informed in he had
iomething to communicate i he was extreme*
ly agitated—drops of sweat Hood Uembling
on his forehead, and fbr some space of time
he could not speak. Having fat down, and
a little composed hinjfelf, he proceeded to
inform us that one of the crew (William
Hutchfield) had been with him to disclose
a plot that was in agitation amongst the
ship s company: the outlines were, that
they were to murder the officer?, and take
the (hip into the Havannalu It would be
t(*> Udiousto relafe all the minute circum
stances :elatfve to this dark afTair. Suffice it
to fay, forty of the ftiip's company
were concerned, and fwom to hare death or
liberty. The officers were to he assassinated
in the iiisrht, by men ftatiWd for that pur.
pose. This dreadfnl plot ivonld have been
put into execution tiie night before, had' not
the hands beea turned up to reef lop fails
very opportunely about ten o'clock at night,
jtift after they had aifembled with an inten
tion to take the (hip, &c. The next night
it was determined to be piit in execution ;
when very, rery fortunately, Hutchfield was
let into the secret, and saved our lives and
his majefly's fhifv. Since that time, till our
arnval at this place (we were then cruizing
off the Havannah) every o'fficer'in the (hip,
not excepting the surgeon, has been utkler
the necsffity of keep.ng vvatchj
a brace o: pidols, and (le> ping wirh a brace
by his bed iide ; and for the space of a
fortnight we never went to rell without ex
pedition of havir.g our threats cut before
the next morning. Yo» may easily co;i
ceiye onr situation ; every man .who ap
proached, you had reason to fufpedt to be
a murderer come with a deljgn to rob you
o.f your life. Upjri our arrival at thi»
place, we had the fatisfaftion t» hear that
fivo me:i belonging to his majrlly'g late (hip
Hersnione, had been ta&ui>, and four con
densed that morning to denth ; the other,
who had betrayed them, is in confinement,
till the pieafure of the Lord* of the Admi
ralty is known. They were taken by the
Valiant in a French privateer, and on the
19th inft. they wire executed, two on board
the crk ; one of thein conftifed 011 the
((.affold that he assisted to mtirder captaiu
Pigot, aad with his own handy the killedkke arft lieutenant, by his fell
with an axe, and also murdcredthe
We execrable wretches behaved with a
hardiness of villamy Scarcely credible ; far
From being penitent, theyfhewed the Sreat
fcft unconcern atid insensibility of their verv
awful situation !
« On tKefollowing day, Patrick Hind.John
M Donald, Thomas Henegan, and Gabriel
Johnson, were tried by a court martial for
being concerned, 2nd exciting others toj .in
in a mutinous conspiracy to murder the «ffi.
cers of the Itonommee, and to take his ma
jefty's ship into an enemy's port ; when up
on a very fair trial, the charge yrag, by a
i number of witneffee, fully proved and the
prisoners fentenced'to be hanged ; which
sentence was yesterday put into execution
on board this ship. They (hewed great pe
nitence, and confefled the crime for which
they fuffered ; but at the fame time impli
cated two or three men who were evidences
again (I them. These severe examples will,
J trull and hope, deter others from any
<tlch desperate attempts in future."
* HOUSE OF COMMONS.
THURSDAY, JUNE 14.
STATE OF IRELAND.
Mr. Baker, w th an intention to exclude
from the House during the debate
which was about to t*ke place on the pre
sent slate of Ireland, that the ft ind
ium orders oft he house be r ad j which be
ing done, ltrangers were ordered to withdraw.
While the Grangers were withdrawing,
Mr. Abbot said, that he perfeftly agreed
•with the honourable gentleman in the pro
priety of carrying into execution the ftand
inporderof the house wi h refpedt to the
exclusion of strangers. at this important "ri
fis, when a of so very delicate a na
ture was abmit to be discussed : But he
trusted at the farae time, that the order
w'otild be "thoroughly arritd into effect;
and he therefore hoped- it would be consider
ed, that if any person should presume to
publish an account of what pafs, or ■
what might be supposed 'o have passed, on
the fubjedl of discussion this <lay, he should
be proceeded against as guilty of a high mis
demenor, and a gross breach of the privleg
es of tb* hou'e, and be puhifhed accordingly.
£ Under these circumftstaces, we feel com
pelled to notice merely the object and the
result of this most interesting debate ]
Mr. iheridair, in a mull eloquent speech,
featured to tho house the lamentable llate of
fitter kingdom He concluded with
moving for a committee of inquiry, to ex
amine into the causes of the present nsbel
lion in Ireland.
This motion of Mr Sheridan was ftrons;-
ly fupportedby Lord GeorgeCavendifh,Mr.
W. Smith, generals Tarleton and Fitzpa- '
trick; Mr. Nicholls, and Mi'. Tierney.
It 'vas opposed by Mr. EKtndas, Lord ;
Hawktfbury, Mr. Canning, aiid Mr. Wind- 1
liam.
Dr Lawrence spoke at cnnliderable
length, and reprobated altogether the sys
tem which has been pursued by miniftere
with refpeel to Ireland.
The house divided on Mr- Sheridan's
motion for a committee of inquiry.
Ayes, 43 —Norn 159.
Mr. Sheridan then moved the following
addre/s to his majesty, for the purpose of
having-it recorded on the journals of the
bouse :
" That an humble Address be presented
to his Majesty, to submit our opinion to
his majesty, that the deplorable state of Ire
land calls for an immediate and totsl charge ,
of councils and measures in that kingdom;'
that if the system of coercion, inforced iu the
manner it has been, should succeed to the
full extent of the most sanguine expeftations
of those who have advised it, the conquest
of a defart is all that can be obtained by it;
and that Ireland, so reduced, and so defoliate,'
can no way be preserved but by a continued
waste of the wealth and strength of Great
Britain, for which no other return from
that country can be rationally expe&ed but •
imp acab'e hatred, waiting for revenge ,
—That if these measures fail, the possibility
of which no wife government would leave
out of its calculation, Ireland will not merely
be loft, tut may-become an accuffion to the
power of and England be exposed
to the iffueof a contest, on J: nglifh ground, '
not for acquisition or dominion, butprobably
for existence.
'• We should fail in the duty we have |
eundertaken, if we did not,at the fame time,
exprtfsto ycur-Majefty ourabfolute convic
tion, that no change of system in Ireland
would be effectual to its purposes, without a
removal of those persons whose councils have
produced the present calamities and who
cannot in reaf in be considered as capable of f
correfting their own errors, or of attempting a
it with sincerity ; and whose past coifdud, f
both in p.atlice and profeflion, renders it J,
impossible for them, even were they to aft j,
on a fmcere conviction of past error, to raise 0
and expeftation io Ireland of such a govern S
ment, on temperate ptinciples, as might dif
pose the people to submit to the regular and
indispensable restraints of justice adtniaifttr
ed according to law, or even ta accept of
ijonceffions without distrust, or of benefits
wilh gratitude. '
" Nothing, in our opinion, but a total 3
change of men. as as measure, can pre- b
vent the olhcrwile certain alit nation, and h
kdicre than poll-.ble separation, of that coun-
Riyfrom Great-Bri ain." g
' The question being put on the address, it
was negatived without a division. V
Adjourned at One o'clock.
FLOUII FOR SALK
By the Subfcriitrs,
Deliverable at anv of the ports on the Dela
ware—who have a!fb on hand at their stores. a
quantity of B;u Iron, Porlc and Corn—Letters»by ?
the post will be attended to.
Levi Ho!ling\ivorth Iff Son.
august »8. dtf A'
0' A large Key found and left "
at the ( fßce of thj Editor —where the Owner
rcceivsit augutt 31
a.j BY TH|s DAV'S iVIAXL.
ir NE vV YORK. September 2.
t- Saturday even ng arrived here from
y Cagliari (Sardinia) the fliip Ch'cpatra, cap
tain Seton, having experienced all the cruel
n ties of which the French are capable, y
e l whom he was taken, a d kept in ; ofTeffion
, r a year, and often "threatened with death.
n [•> e expeft the particulars from the cap
[. tain's own pen.]
t- 9" t ' le '. e ' two a y s rom Cag-
U ' lar . ,, ca P tain Seton was b arded from his
a Britannic majefty'a ships Emerald and Alco
e main, of 44 guns eaeh, the c uizing (hips of
h J ervis s fleet; and, captain Seton is pretty
n sure the commander of the Emerald had
been in fight of Buonaparte's fleet, which
I, was then off Sicily. Jervis's squadron, of 25
- ai ' >at ' j u 'l ' e ft a port in Sardinia, where
„ they went for supplies, and wer_- all
\ t fail in pursuit of the French squadron, which
j was then about 20 leagues off. Captain S.
was informed by" vcffeis b arded by the
French fleet, their dellination was against
Sicily. It was not doubt-d but the Eng.
lifh would fall in. and, at leaf!, fruftrate the
dcfigns of th>3 gallic expedition.
Arrived. Days.
e hip Cleopatra, Seton, Sardinia 86
i Bng Rofjrtta, Aux
NEWPOX f, Augujl 28.
The following gentlemen « ere thic morning
elefled to represent this town in the General
• Alkmbly, viz. George Champiin, efqr. John L
, Boss, efqr, Archibald Crary, efqr.-M' Robert
1 Lawfon, inn. Mr. Ehenczer Bnrrill, and Mr.
Walter Chaoning.
When this paper went to prrfs, the votes in
, thls f,,wn for reprefentativts in Congress, flood
as follows: Brown a 14 —7*cllingbail 35
• Champlln J3o fcatterin'g 3.
,From s Pro<vidence t Aug. 29,
Yesterday was ]jeld our Town Meeting, for
the choice of new delegate for the sixth' Or 11
grefs; the people riot hen;,* pieaftd with t'e
cornWl of Mr. Titlhigbafi lift fefiiori. ih'.j ire;
quently upon some yiea or thbr, Voted with
■ Gallatin,' Lyon, Varnum, &c. opp'afejJ him with
~'l r ■ John JUroovN', who, out >f rear 640 vote?
obtained all but three. J therefore exne.sl Mr
Bn.wn will obtain trirough (he state by a vai'.
majority
o3" I he«4nhabitants of the City
and County of Philadelphia are here' y n&ji v
that the REGIS ERS OFFICE for the Probate .
Wills, &for the said Cry and County, will he
opened at the house of *Jobn Dover, at Frnnkfor
she 4th of September in.u from wine till three
o'clock, and on.every Tuefcay following, during
the present prevailing fever i , Philadelphia
GFORGE CAMPBKLL,'Ur:gifter
September 3 e o.aw
COLLECTOR'S OFFICE^
Philadelphia, Aagu.'t 30, 1798
THE business of the CufUm Houfo Will from
tnis day be tranfaifted at Cheller, during the con
tinuance of the fever which now prevail* in thin
city ; and in canfequence thereof, the m rchants
are hereby notified, that payment of all bonds for
to the United St?tcs, payable at this office, ,
may be made either at the Cultom Hotife tn Ches
ter, or at the Brink of the United Statet.
Colleitor's Office, )
Philadelphia, Aug. 30. j
~ rnkovAl.
THE Office of-the Secretary of thft GommiflGon
trs for carrying into eff£& the twenty firJt Article
of the Treaty of Friendfhlp, Limits and Naviga
tion, between His Catholic Majesty and the Unit
ed State# of America, is for the prefe.pt removed
from No 54' South Second street, to a large two
story brick house on the righr hand going up the
Gsrinantown road, judal ove the Globe Mijl, ufu
aily called JV4a#:ersVhoufr.- s being a very airy and
healthy si tuation ; to w':ith persons having claims
to exhibit, or enquiries ta make, may come w
fend with the gn*at«ft fafety. I.etters, po(l paid,
Bills and Notes, to b- noted or protelled, and di
rections rpfpeiling any kind of Notarial bafinefs.
;nelofed and left at the Post OfficCj will be duly
attended to, by
PETER LOHRA.
Miladelphia, august §iw
no tic e. r
Bank of North America,
Augujl 2stk, 1798.
r Persons wbo
X at this Bank are informed,
That regular Notices will be put undw a sealed
cover directs to Che refpeilive payer and lodged
in the Poft-Office every Monday until the return
of the citizens.
RICHARD IVELLS, Cajbur.
Aug. 29 dtf
N O 7 1 C E,
Bank of the United States,
Avguft 28, 17.98.
'T'HOSE persons who have Notes or Bills to
J- pay at this Dank, are informed,
That regular Notices will be put under a seal
ed cover direifled to the refpeiiive payer jnd
lodged in the Post Office every Monday until
the return of the Citizens.
G. SIMPSON, cajhier.
august 18 > 3awtf 1
STTserted
FROM his guard house at Marcus Hook, a Ma- t
rine Soldier, belonging to the Unite<?t3tate!.' <
fliip of w*r Ganges—his name is Henry Hylanrls, j
an .American horn, is full fix feet in height, well
proportioned, long black hair, with dark com- 1
flexion, and is marked with the small pox. Who- '
ever will appri hend the said Hylands, and deliver (
hint on board the fliip Ganges, at Marcus Hook, c
or at the camp of captain Edward Miller, over t
Schuylkill, fliall receive the reward allowed by law
DANIEL CARMICK,
Lieutenant of Afarj.Kj. '
aug'.ift 31 *eo4t c
Fifty Dollars' reward. J
DESERTED from the Marine Barracks, cor- 1
ner of Filbert and Thirteenth streets, 1
Soft Matbew, born in Ire'and, by trade a baker, r
37 years of age, 5 feet 4* inches high, grey ey;s, f
black hair, an 4 dark complexion, a (null Icar on
his lc-ft inflep.
William O'Brien, horn in Ireland, by trade a '
barber, 40 years of age, 5 feet 5 3-4 inches high, c
grey eyes, brown hair and light complexion. i
"John Sliter, born in Saratoga, (late of New- :
York, farmer, 22 years c.f age, 5 set 7i inches
hig\, grey eyes, light brown hair, fair complex
ion. t
Tbonm Smith, born in Walpark, ?uffcx county, f
State ef Newjcrfcy, by trade a mafun, ay years r
of age, 5 feet 7.] inches high, brown eyes light
hair, fair complexion.
Join Begley, horn in
r feet '8 inch's higl>, grey eyes, sandy hair, brown 1
complexion. fl
Whoever will take up the aforefaid defcters, t
fliall receive the r.Vove reward, or Ten Dollars for (
each, and all rcafotiabls ex-ences.
ANTHONY GALE;,
Liviierant of Manna* e
augu Jt tiw I
n PHILADELPHIA',
!- TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 4.
" CITY HOSPITAL REFORT.
I. TO ft THS 3 D SEPTEMBER.
Adtritted—ElGHTEEN.
D.-d—EIGHT.
S Difcharged—THßEE.
_ Remaining in the H fpital of whom
f i. are on the recovery.
■ f Interred in Hospital Ground.
] F-om City Hospital 8
i City and Liberties 19
e Tjrtal 27.
1 PHILIP S. PHYSI K,
1 SAMUEL COOPER,
. CHRISTOPHER DARROW,Steward.
; By order of the boar-i of Managers,
I Wm JONES, President.
. Penrose Clerk, Pro tern.
EIGHTY-SEVEN new cases of the
; prevailing ftver, reported by 17 Physicians,
for the last 48 hours.
>
Buried in the several Cha ch burying
: grounds, exrlulive of thpfe at the Hospital |
for the 48 hours ending at 8 o'clock la ft e
vetiing— 24 adults—ll children. <
AT a meeting of a Committee of the Ma
nagers of the Marine and City Hospitals,
1 and a Committee of the Board of Guardians
of . the Poor, for the purpose of devising
means for the relief and afliftance of persons
defirouo of removing from the City and Li
berties daring the prevalence of the present
maliwt ant fever—
Rcjb.vsci that a general fsibfcriiition be
solicited on loan, the Aim so f. bfcribed to be
reimbursed out of any fmid which thr Ltgif
iature may hereafter appropriate for the
urpofe.
Rrjolved, that Peter Miercken, William
Jones, liaac Price, James Oldden and Jo
rthan Rob.-'o , b app-iinted to receive
e mon'es so i f-d to hi applied under the
"':r aiors ,-f the Managers of the Marine
and ■ -I'y Hofpiials and the Guardians of
Poor.
Appr vedby the Board of Guardians of
the Poor, PETER MIERCKEN,
President.
Ims Hou e, 1
Sept 3. y
Approved by the Board of Managers of
the Marine and City Hospitals.
■ Health Office, September 4, 1798.
Wm. JONES, Prtjident.
Attest, William Penrose, Clerk,p. t.
* ' DONATIONS,
Received at the Tent.t near Schuylkill, for the
use of the Ptor.
September 3.
One large load of potatoes from Robert
Wharton, Efiq.
One twenty dollar bank-note from the
widow Bowie.
One ten dollar bank note from Mr. Peter
Helm.
Two large cart loads of potatoes, onions,
anA cabbages, with 1321b ■ { flour, by the,
hards of Mr. Nicholas Pickelj, from Capt.
Hancy, Mr. George Barton, John Lefher,
Ai'am Young, Jacob Young, Michael Mil
ler, Mr. I'eltz, Mr. Kuchtr, Mr. Sedman,
Mr. Mark. Mr. Brown, Henry Young, and
Mrs. Welding.
Two barrels pilot bread from Mr. Tho
mas Fergufon.
By order of the Committee,
PETER MIERCKEN, Chairman.
Sept. 4.
MEDICAL ADVICE
To the Citizens of Philadelphia.
The following direfiions for the prevention
and treatment of the prevailing fever, are
affe&ionately recommended to those citi
zens of Philadelphia, who are unable to
procure the regular attendance and advice
of Physicians, by
BENJAMIN RUSH,
SAMUEL P. GRIFFITHS.
September 3d,. 1798*.
THE feeds of the disease may exist in the
body for acsnfiderable time, without doing
any harm. It i: generally excited by one or
more of the following causes, which of
course ought to be carefully avoided, viz :
fatigue, a long walk, landing in the ftia,
ot in a current of air, intemperance incit
ing and drinking, coftivenefs, violent pa/"
lions, or sudden emotions of the mind, thin I
drefled, light bed cloathea, and above all. 1
the night air.
It is of consequence for our citizens to '
know that we have but one fever in our i
city at present, and that every febrile indif- j
jiofition partakes of the prevailing malignant
epidemic. Hundreds have died from mista
king the firft stage of the fevet for a com- a
mon cold. The miflake is a natural one, 1
for it com'es on like a cold, and is frequently 1
xcited by cool, or cold air. This remark J
is intended to productj applications for me
dical aid as soon as poflible after feeling the J
ieaft fyrr.ptonj of indjfpofition at tke present
junfture. f
In the forming state of the fever when r
the patient feels slightly indisposed, and be- <]
fore Ik- isccnfiued to his bed, the following d
remedies generally cheek the disease.
A purge of Salts, Castor Oil or a D <fe
of Jalap and Calomel. It these fail of giv- r
i"g relief, a gentle sweat should be excited
in the usual way. If there be much pain in d
the head or back, and the pulfe'be full, or l '
tenfr, ten or twelvr ounces of blood should 1
be loft, before the use < f the sweat, and
either before or after taking the purge. f,
Er-tire reft fiptn business and excrcife of all
® kinds will be neceflary to give efficacy to (fee |
above remedies.
If the exiftehce of the difeaf- w re more
earl}-, and more gmera'ly admitted; and li e ft
'fmedieswliichhavebeen recommended, used p
btf re the fiver waseo pletelvformrd, there ft
are the ftrongtft reasons to believe therie
would be much less mortality fr rri it.
After ihe disease is form d, ana appears L
with wre or left of the following fympto\ s,
viz chills, great hrat, head j<?he,a i cjriefj
in the eyes, fitknefs at the stomach, vomit
ing, pains in the back, limbs and boweU,
See. the f llowiV.g remedies are proper.
I. The loss of ten or twelve ounces of
blood two or th e * times a d<y, while the
pulse con'inUes to bf full, or tense. —If the
ptllfe fhculd bt pouter, and apparent y weaker
than natural, it calls for bleeding as much as
it does ivhen it discovers preternatural fiu
nejs and tendon.
t. The bowels flioiild be purged at the
fame time with calomel mixed with jalap or
rhetibarb in powders or in pills. The <-pe
ration of this purging medicine fliould be
aided, when prafticable, by Glyfters com
posed of half a . ounce of Glaubers salts dis
solved in half a pint of warm water, or of
half a pint of warm-water with fwc.t oil,
molafT s, and common fait of each a table
' fpooliful, in it.
Ihe bowels should be kept gently open Pi
through the whole course of the disease, by
j means of the above glyfters, and any other
gently purging medicine.
3. If the stomach should b-fick and op
preiTed with bile, a vomit of Ipecacuana, (
or Tartar emetic may be given at any time
on the Jd or 4th day of the disease, provi- I
' ded the pialfe has been reduced by previous
I bleeding and purging. fivco ten \/
drops of laudanum may be given to compose Q f
the stomach if the vomit should operate day
more than three or four times. the
4 Calomel should be given from the be
ginning, in dofesof from two to five graft s c ' r .
_ every liours, in order to excite a sali
vation. If the calomel should purge more aw '
than two or three times a day, four or five or
drops of laudanum may be given two or arc
three times a day, in order to confine the to (
calomel to the bowels, and thereby to de- ?' ei
tef nine it to the mouth and throat. We ' ~ n |
have seen no death where this medicine has whl
produced a fslivatjpn. ! ton
5. After the pulse is reduced by bleeding ' acci
and purging if the disease has not yielded, pait
a profufe fvveat should be excited by wrap- 4cr ,
ping the patient up in blankets, with five or m:i
fix hot bricks wetted with vinegar applied " f "''
to different parts of h's bsdf, and giving
him at the fame time large and repeated of a
draughts duringtwenty four hours of hot and
cammomile or sage tea, rfbT lemmonade or » '
weak punch, or any other hot liquor that tnj!
is agreeable to him, to drink. This sweat co "
should be continued for twenty-four hours
'till the patient is out f danger. thei
6. Blitters should be applied to the wrists enjo
and ankles, in common cases, ab..ut the brin
third or fourth day of the fever if the pulse in «
be reduced, or the ficknefg at stomach i« said
troubleforae. If the head be much ass -fted, 1
a blister should be applied to the ne kor to n
tjie crown of the head, firft cutting off the !
hair and shaving it, and if the stomach 1
should be iugch affefled after the third or f"
fourth day ala-ge blister should be applied n.
to it.
7 In cafe of delirium with a languid •'
pulse poultices of raw garlic with a little
mustard should be applied to the feet.
8. Fresh air should beadmitted into sick T
rooms at all times, and cool air h the be-. nun
ginning of the fever when the skin is hat, , to \ ni
and the pulse full and tense. In this slate '
of the fever, the hands, feet and face fliould 1 —-
be wafnedien or twelve time* a dsy with
cold water. In a cool (late of the (kin, or J
when the body is crvered with sweat, cool
air and cold water are improper. T
9- The body and bed linen of the flck ; th!r '
should be frequently changed, and all often- '" g '
five matters discharged from them, should ?c
be instantly removed.
In cases of great weakness the patient
fliould not be permitted to rife from his bed
when under the operation of purging phy-
sic nor upon any othe: occzfiop.
10, The drinks of sick people in the be- H
ginning of the fever, fliould be to ft and S refl
water, tamarind water, lemonade, current 1 —■—
jelly diflolved in water, apple water or bar
ley water. In the latter ft.ige of the ftver, \
the drinks may be porter and watei', claret j
and water, milk and water or camomile tea. 3
Weak tea and coffee may be taksn in „ f]
the beginning of the fever. Jnitsfecond 1
stage the patient may tat bread and - ilk
with roasted appies or foft peaches, cho
colate, sago, tapioca, ripe fruits, weak chick- AT
en or veal broatft, and a little boiled chicken.
It will be improper to depend exclusive- ',
ly upon any one of the above remedies. <Mth
The combined force of them 211 is 'arely be*"
fufficient in manycafes to overcome thi*3 for ,hls '
midable disease.
P. S, All thi-ahove medicines with fultahle di- --
regions may be had of George Hunter, No. Ix 4, J
South Second llrcet; John J. Malcolm, No. 78 offi c
South Seeond-ftreec ; and Robert Stafford, No. \f>.
Market flreet.
DIED—CXn Sunday evening, abont It o'clock,
after two days il ness, Col. Stephen Stivunjon. Ft»ir
During the whole of the late revolution, Colonel ]
Sievenfon, with thatpatrutifm and bravery which
always diflinguifhed him, fcrved with honor to
himlelf and his country.
John Si"rcß£,\ves, merchant, of Front street.
pallors of the Roman Catholic Church.
Departed this life on Friday lift, at E!kton, Ma- ?
rylanrf, Mr. Edward F. Huohej. late of Phila- V .
delphia, a joung gentfcn.an univerf'ally and very ,
deservedly efteemcd _
ERRATA. j" 1 '
Inthe deathspubliKicdyeftcaday, forDr.Samuel, "
read Dr. Francis" BowrsSavre, &c.
■ , Mc
The Health Oflice ia kept open night and p'"
day, at the City Hall, \>here every nrceflary
t-ooveniencc is procured fcr removing the sick "
and burying the dead
WILLIAM ALLEN. &
s3* Those Citizens who have LINEN to •
spare will render a public fbryice by fen ing it re, i' J - cl
tc the City Hall, for the nfe of th ( e. City Hospital au2
ke) Gcrmanfow/i, Sweater lj?, !;£§:
Mr ri-.sxo, *
, rf r toWJlfli it- fcllowiVtict 1
'•e for ./flcft nod Common Councils, at the .
1 i » ' oblige one of yoi!
re ftilow;citizens.
* SELECT toUNCI*. .
Godfrey Hajja Thomas Willing,
n , Daniel Smi h, v Tofcph Magoffin.
COMMON COUNCIL,.
Lawrence Herbert
l " Henry Drinker, jua.
s > Gideon H. IV dig
Calper W. M«rri»
J ' Thoma« P. Cope
f George Peimock
c /j i\, 1 homaa Parker
r tylichiel Kepple
1S Joseph Hupkinfoß
Kearney Wharton
Conrad Gerhard
<" Georg Fox
r - John Ruj>an ,
E J ward Randolph
f Malcolm M'Donnald
Joseph North (Union street)
L.»i Hollihijfworth
f George Willing
> Edward Pennii.gtori
Jonathan Jonetf.
1 Pkfrt/sri tan) a, Jf. '
r Ia the N *" ,e lnd by Au'tioritv of the Cam
monweaith of Peunfylvania,
By THOMAS MIFf 1 £ IN,
, Governor of the fail Commonwealth^
Aproclamation.
, c v ?*. ; and of the Ban*
> 3 r y r a "n ' 0,1 thc ci ? nt of s-uur
' fh iy M R H*"' the Houft now occupied by
nil ' sonf on : mi,,l| y "lied Carpenter*
. Hall, wm burglar, oufly enteric! by W villain.
3 f 1 *'"l! unknown, and therefrom i consider
. f a . blc n »°*r ot of various Ueu rip.
tiona and denominates we, . rtolen „nd carried
- away: to t„ E .sus, ,J, at , hc pe ™ t ' or ,
- or perpetrators of to great a crime, and the
- acccflariestlieieto,maybedifc reredandbrought
. to condign pundhment, I have deemed it cx*pe
. dient t« i(W tins Proclamation, hr;■ by offet
, j ing and promiGnjj a « fataud of ONF THrur
; J™ I P d °r LLARb ; ,0 -r frtbd. or perS
I who (hall difcoter the pe.petratc'r, or perpetra-
J tors of the f.ud crime, or an* of them, or any
accelLry thereto, before or after the faO, to be
, paid on the conviaion of all or any of the offen
ders AND I do hereby father offer and pro
. m;fe A FREE AND EN TIKE ARDON
unto any one of the perpetrates, or acceffarie.
4 k C^' m° of ' ,h « 'aid crime,
who (hall make a lull and fctiafaflory d.fclolurS
of all the cucumftances relative to the contrivinr
and accomplishing the fame, and of the names
■d places of abode of his or her affiliates, lb
a. luch iffociates may be apprehended and
convicted: AND all the Judg-*. Jultires, Mie
riffs Constables, and other uM e Officers of
this Commonwea.th (aum i ,c the duties of
their r-lpedliv* atinm) are hereby requ, edand
enjoined to u e all lawful means to dctea anj
bring to justice eich and every person conce-ned
in CTOtnvmg, or perpetrating the crime afcre-
OIVEN und-r my hand an-! the Grtu#
' t\ q i 7u- thc _ St,te ' at Germantown, fha
j ..„( L - s 0 third cay of September, in the of
cur I ; ord one ihonfand fcv eH huodrecf
and ninety-eight, and of the Common
wealth tlw. twenty-third.
' , THOMAS MIFFUN
By the Governor: *
4 A.J DALtAj.
: Secretary of lbt Com,nwcia!tb.
Bank of Pennsylvania.
11 IE Sank of Pennsylvania i> removed toGer
, mantown,-*where the business will be tranfatfei
| to-morrow, ill the Union House
I se r te„,her 4 JONAIHANSMIrH ' Va(h -;
T I C~E.
Bank of the United States,
■na
»»;>«» i..',CiilKSt
mg.andfo remain until noon
<eptemKer 4 . C a(hier.
Mr. bI'ENCK, Dentist.
w"»f as- his Houfc » »**>
—— *-J'l 4 —eoiw
Walker Kennedy,
HAVE removed their Couming Honfe (for th«
present) to the corner of Chefnuc a t ,d Twelfth-
3t September 4
Guardians of the Poor.
A ° f ' he ° ene "' Board willb#
J. Y held at the Aim, Houf, the xcth inft. pre
cilcly at 1» o'clock. •
PEI ER MIERCKEN, Prefidtnt.
Z . tfO
Pennsylvania Hospital,
\TO p-rfon with an infefliou» difeaft,
11_ aUmuted ntotln, house; it is therefore ear
wcommei.ded to the citirens, not to fend
or Ting any such patient to rhe gate, who is ill
£" h t f ilC fever. Several having;
, fcnt hcre improperly, is the reason of eivinl
this caution. 6 K
By Order of the \ _
Sitting Managers, \ HIGGfNS,Stew'J.
TVanted—A Boy to attend aa
Office, Ctuated in a healthy p*rt of the city
N °"*'' North 3eVfmh lirc «-
NOW LAND/AG,
Fwm cn board the brig AmiaUfc Matildj- f rom
Lcurceau*, and f,.r UU by the fubferiTcr,
08 cafksC/.ARE 1*
71 do- do of a fuprrior qualitv
a trunks green PARAII9LS.
Thomas Murgafroyd,
No. it, Walnut-Urcea.
irrio HAS »N HAND,
V"hit« Wine in hall Calks
Sw*et Oil of d fnperior quality, in
1-oxes and balkets
iT" e 1 EititUd t. '
Sautcrnc / [«.. , ,
Infii Market > WINES in Cases W
Maraftjr and 1
Medcc J
Rota Wine in hkd«.
Pimento in bags.
° eotf
tSr Th^COMP'IINGIHOUSE
.! Messrs Nickhn & GairriTH.is rem.- ,1,.
refideiK»<if P.Nicklin, near th; FaLs a ; - th „ T
auguU a j • -W.Lands for sale by private Contra*!
Proposals will be received, by the subscriber,
until the fir ft day of Sfrtember next, for the j
purchafeof any of the following very valuable
trails of land with their improvements.
In the State of New-York,
No. i, Two lots of ground situate in the
county of Albany in the town called Lanfing
feurgh, and diftin; Tied or known on a map ef
said town by the names of No. 71 and 72.
x. Two trails of land situate in the town ef
West-Chester, the one of them near Oliver De
lancy's, John Cox's and John Palmer's land, ad
jpini>:g Brouhs Rirer, the othsr of them near
Devilard's fnufT mill, Delancy's land and ad
joining Brouh's river the whole containing about
84 acres.
3. A trail of land situate in the rotinty of
Weft-CheSer, on the road from ICings-Sndge
te Delarccy's Mills containing about acres.
4 A trail, of land situate in Montgomery
Ounty, being apart of the trail called JefTup *
lirchafe and known and distinguished in a divi
cm of the said p'jrchafe into townships by being
art of to wnfhip No. 4. beginning at the S. W.
Oiinds of said purchafeand at the southerly cor
ner of said townlbip containing by estimation
about 5611 aces.
5. A traSl of land situate in the county of
Montgomery, aforefaid, beinjr also a part of
Jeffup's p'jrchafe and known and distinguished
in divihon nf the said parchafe into townships,
by being p:rt of townlhip No. 1 beginning at
S VV,bounds of said townfllip at the diflmce of
cha ns and 50 links from the mod southerly
corner thereof.
(1. A trail of land situate '.n U!Aer county,
bew.g part of the trail of land kno\Vn by the
name of tbi Great irHafde.ibutghs patent,con
taining about 6000 acres.
, 7. A traa of land fitua'e in the .county of
tjlller aforel'aid dn the N. E. fide of theriver
Delaware, being also n part of the land f< rmer
y g rah ted to Johannes Harder,burgh and others
commor.ly known by the name of the Green
patent it being a part of a great lo! No. 1. at
the general partition of said patent which came 1
to the share of 1 homa- Newbam on< of the
proprietors, and is know 1 * and diflinguifhed On
the rnafs of the sub-division th»r«of made by
Chafes Webb, surveyor in the year 175* by
lot No. 60 ; this laud runs some difiar.re on the
tfver Delaware and contains abost jijj acres. J
8. A trail of land in the county of TJifler A
foiefaid in thefoOh tier of lots in the Harden
burgh patent being the lot No. ti, containing
about 1 a,650 acres excepling thereout 320 acres,
heretofore crant by Robert R, Livingftotl to
Nathaftiel Sachel.
9. A trail of bud fittiate in the county of Ul
-4f:.-r, brgitiningon the Papekunk river, and ad
joining toe 14th monument in the general dtvi
fion of the Hardenburgh patent, containing
about 30C0 acres.
10. Two equal undivided seventh parts of two
frversl parcels of lands situate in the townships
«f Chamung in the county of Tioga on the S.
W. fide of Tioga river, the fame being part of
a trail of .about 4c,000 acres) these two seventh*
contain about 5763 acres.
11. One' equal and undivided seventh part of
the laid zo,oooacre trail in Tioga county being
about 1,826 acres.
12. One equal and undivided seventh part of
said 20,000 acre trait in Tioga county being al
o about 2,88(1 acres.
In the State of Maryland.
1 A triftwif 'a«d now called Bayley's pur
chase in Prince George's county, near to a bay
or ?ove called, Asornfiin cove, containing about
lan acres of prinie land.
14. A tnil of land called Fortune Enlarged,
and part of a trait called (Rail's adventure en
larged, both lying in Prince Georga's county on
♦he eiflern branch of the PotOmack, containing
iboilti 16 Seres.
j<. A trail of land with the house and im
provement called Aron, lying on theealtcrn
branch'of the river Potomack, opposite to the
city of Vi'afhington in Prince George's county
containing about 75 acres.
16. A trail of land wtih the houses, mills,
other buildings and improvements lying near
Fort Cumberland in the county of Washington
earn lining about zeSB acres.
17. A trail of land situate in tho county of
Walhington, adjoining to Tort Cumberland,
containing 400 aeres or thereabouts.
lg. One undivided moiety of a trail of
in Aileginy county, called spruce spring, the
whole ot which contains about 120 acres, also
one undivided moiety nf 236 trails or lots of
ground, each of which contains about 50 acres,
and are numbered from 500 to 799 indufivc,
omitting and excepting three lots which are dis
tinguished by the numbers 661, 662 and 684 all
which said lands adjoin.
In the State of Virgtnia-
A trail of Meadow land uith considerable
improvements, lying onllupter's creek,Dorrell's
cteek) Muddy creek and the rjver Potomack ;
•and adjoining the city of Alexandria containing
by patent 29J acres.
Ed-ward Fax, auftioneer.
Philadelphia, June sih, 1798.
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHftREAS David and John Graham, late
of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
have assigned ever all their 6ffeils, real and per
sonal, to the fubferibers, for the benefit of their,
creditors —
Notice is hereby given.
To all persons who are indebted to said eflate,
that they are required to make immediate payment
their refpeilive debts to the afiignets at their of
fice No. 6a Doclc-ftreet. In failure whereof, legal
meafurcs will be taken for the recovery of such as
are no' immediately Hifcharged.
SIMON WAIKER, Affigneesof
CHARLES GILCHRIST, £ David & Joan
GEORGE HUMPHREYS,3 Graham.
July 7. tth<k» ifep.
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
Zi. fide of Spruce-ftrect near Second-street,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, tfq. —This
house is in compleat repair with back buildings,
consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen andahmdfome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As iti'y Person inclined to purchase will view
•he premifes,a more psrticular description iscon
fidered unnecclTary.
The terms of payment wiH be one third calbj
one third in 6 months and the remainder in ii
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CR/ifG,
No. 11 Dock-Jireet.
mnv 16 $
' will be mov
e'd on Monday the 11th instant, at o"e o'clock
r, m. to the North-fide of Market-flrect, the
i;il house WelUf Eleventh ftrect, where Mer
iitauts and others are requcftcd t<- fend f. r their
letters ; as the Letter-tauitrt will be flopped
(Tarrying letters rut, after tliat time.
• v.<t Offite, Vhilorlrlph'in, august TI.
~ A House to Ist,
In Fourth street, next d< ■»' to the Indian Queen.
EnquireCfßobeutFmtin, N«.jß, Southfrort
§ j ui )'
Proposalsj |
BY THI
Injur a nee Company of North America.
Fes Ixsoramce against Fire, on Dwelling
! Hoirfea, Ware-Houl'es, and other Buildings (and
! on Goods contained in such Buildings) diltant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
T. Cortmon lufurance;, on hazards of the firS
class, will he undertaken at a premium of about
halt per cnt. per annum. For extra haurdous
rifqnes a Targer premium willbe required, which
will vaiy according to eireu'siflances, feidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but iijjfome in-'
(lances, where the property ir.fured is not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered {till more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded wdl be raised
according to circumrtr.r.ces.
Houles and Ware-Houses, the walls and purti
tions of which are wholly of stone of brick, well
conftruiled, so as to b* guarded as well as may be
againfl fires from within, and free from extra ha
zardous buildings and occupations in their neigh
borhood, will he deemed hazardous of the firil
• class, and may be insured te their full value.
Also Goods and- Merchandize, not o! an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or packages, de
pofitcd in such to an amount not ex
ceeding jcoo dollars ; but if more than thisfum
is required to be infnred in one tenement, an addi
tional premiiim will be required, in proportion to
circu»iftances.
11. lnfurances will also be made on buildings ar.d
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tha risque. But it is not e?,fy to arrange these
under particular heads or daffes, so a? to defciil e
each with the neceflary accuracy. Each muft
therefore be decided upon according to the circuoi
ftances artrading it ; 3nd these circumflances wi!i,
in geßf-ral, appear from the description accompa
uying the application.
Buildings partly conftruited of brick or (lone,
arc preferable to those wholly wooder. And in
both cases, the stile of bulliaing, how they are oc
cupied, how they are fituited, the neighboring
buildings, andhow occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And wkhrcfpeil tegoods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are cxpofed, cither
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden and hafly removal, or to be t'o
len i« time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumflances of weight ; and the premiums mull be
proportioned accordingly.
lIK The following condjtiont are to be under
stood by the parties .
ifc. The Insurance is net binding till the (lipu
lated premium be paid ; but it shall he deemed ef
fectual from the time of such and accep
tance 'hereof, whether the policy be immediately
fignedornot. •.
2d. lnfurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
peiifes than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumftancescontinuing the fame
as they were anderflood by the Infurt rs it the time
the former insurance was made ; but the payment
of the premhitn is essential to such renewal; and
if the Varty in/ujed fullers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former infuranee, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time; nor can the insurance be renew
ed en the former policy but by computing the,
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjeil of iofur
ance may nevertheless be open to treaty.tor a new
infurante.
3d. If any otherinfurancs be made 011 the fame
property ; it mud Ue made known at the tmie of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trull, or on 'consignment,
raay be insured as filch in a separate policy; but
they are not te be considered as infuied atherwife.
sth. This company wit! not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occafiotied by any for
eign invasion, or by any military or usurped force
or by reafor. of any ci/i 1 cooimotion ;or occasion,
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th
like ki.id kept in the building, or amongst the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deads, Money, Bank and other pro
mifTsry Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, nedals, jewels, gems, antique
Ctiriofities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured une
less particularly mentioned and by ffecialagree
ment.
;th. No insurance will be made for a ftiorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than se
ven years. Persons choosing to insure for seven
years (ball he allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third, of a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Loifes fufl aincd by fire en property insured,
shall be paid in. thirty days after due pryuf and li
quidation thereof, without deduition.
A description of the property to be infurod will
be expeiled with each application, to be made by
a mafler carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the building ot applicant fer in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magiftrafe, who will certify his knowledge of tha
parties arid their credibility.
Wirfi refpeil to Houses and other Buildipgs.
ift. The site and polition; describing the
street or road on or near which the building
stands; its contiguity to water, and othtfr cir
cumstances relative to the extinguishment of fire
in cafe of accident,* and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are ellablifhed, and
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood.
ad The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the oiitffde wails as inlide or
partition walls, and their refpeilive height and
thickness ; the flyle of the roof and of what
materials; howfecured by battlements of par*
,ty walls; whatkindof accefsto top of the
house and to the chimnies ; whether any ar.d
what eleilric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for alhes.
3d. The dimenfmns of the building a/id how
divided, and the flyle in which it is finilhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the age and condition of the building,
•and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what par-,
pose ; also an eflimate of the value of the house.
or building independent of the ground.
4th. The situation with refpeil to other build
ings or back buildings, wJiether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or m3iiufailory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or ujtially depo
sited in the house, or within the diflance afore
faid, and of what kind.
Refpeilisggoods in Houses, Warehouses, &c.
1. A £eueral description of the building in
wlich they are kept will be expeiled, similar in
all refpeils,as to tlie danger from fire, with that
required for Infuranee on the buildings them
felvcs.
z. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, u hether in casks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
eflimate of the value of each kind pmpofed 10
be infused /but in tue lad pnMe«Ur rffii'ite; ,
nefsof ifefcription is not expected. «■*»•
3. Articles of the followinj; kind* are deed
ed extra hazardous, though in various decrees,
in u-haterer bnildmg they may be placed, vh.
pitch, tar, turpentine, /ro(<n, wax, tillow, cu!,
inflanwiable spirits, fulphnr, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened—
Ghfs, china wire or porcelain, efperially un
picked ,- Looking glaflcs, jewelery ; and all o
ther Jrtides more than commonly inflammable,
or rrore than comirionly liable to injury by sud
den removal of by moistures, or 'partioilarly
obnoxious to theft on an alarm of fire.
Letters port paid, dire&sd to the Secretary rf
the.J?oard of Directors, will be duly attended
to. An order tor Insurance accompai ied by the
means of paying the premlqm, wilt be imme
diately executed on the premium pijd. !f
tS/ipprtcVfioti contain in enquiry o. ly, it \vi|l
be answered.
By order cf the Board,
Eiffe'NEZM HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Office of ike Infursnce Company q/Nort'r |
America ; Pbilad. Feb. I, : r 1 )?- )
Feb. 14. iamtf.
~ : FOREIGNERS
MAY, byvirtneof an asb at November
session 179T, bold by cteeri, or by will, lands
in that part of Marylaini called the of Co
lumbia ; r.nd the fame may be transmitted to, and
inherited by their heirs, &c.as if they were citi
zens.
Witl'in th:* <?iflri& of Columbia, upon the eaf
tero branch pf. Potoniack. pppofite fquarcs No.
1114, and n.n in the oi;y Waihington, are 360 3-
crcsof refnrved wood lend Forfait. Its advanta
gesarc numerous, poflefling three or four elegant
height, many nne springy, and an abundanca of
tiaiber, principally white oaks. For a dock or
ibip yard, no position can boast of equal benefits,
having two cove«, with narrow entrances, from
which at an cafy expence, tide witer might be
excluded, and docks f«nk, large enough to re
ceive ve(Ttl« of any size.
WMhing to retain an interest in the property, I
would prefer felling an undivided half cr three
eights. GEORGE FRENCH.
For terms apply to Mr. Charle* Minifee,Union
flreet, Philadelphia, or Mr. Robert Wallh, Balti
more. July 23. *aw6w*
ro 15E SO LP,
r r""HF rjate of an indented Dutch Servant BOY,
L who his ten years to serve. He has had riie"
small pox and nieafles, is aSive, hearty arid strong,
and fit fur honfework in town or country. l ; or
further information, enquire of the printer,
augiHt 4 §
To be Sold,
An elegant and convenient House,
jh Chef nut jlnct, next door to the Bttilt *f North Ameirica.
THii I.«t is thirty by one hundred and seventy
oight. T!ie House has been thoroughly repaired
within a l.w months. Apply to the Printer.
august 3 §
Mills, Portage, Rcc.
TO BE LEASED EOjt A TERM OF TEARS,
TO be leafed, for a term not less than three,*
Ror more than seven y«rs, a VALUABLE
PROPERTY at the Seneca-FSlh, in the county of
Onondago,a nd state of New-York, on the Banks
of the Se-neci-river, two miles we&of the Cayuga
ferry, and eleven miles east of Genevi.
This eltabliiijment consists of an excellent grift
mill, saw mill, dwelling house, barn, and a port
age or carrying with between thirty and
forty acres of land, under good improvement, and
as nxich more fn the vicinity, as maybe required
for future improvement.
The grift mill is a handsome, sew and well fin
ifhed building, of jq by 30 feet, 3 ftpries high
and furnilhed with a run of excellent Btirr stones
andanoWier of Efopus' stones, of the bell qujlity
—and tliemoft approved boalts, &c. calculated to
make all the different qualities of flour for expor
tation or for home qonfumption : It is acccflible by
water from every part of the Cayuga lake and Se
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
from its situation, commands a eeryextepfive and
encreafiug c*ft«iri: The stream on which it fiands,
being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill. cau
never be in want of water ; and as it has been kept
working during the feafor. of the lalt win
ter, it'is not liable to Ue impeded by froil:
The saw mill is also new, ficuated on the fame
flrcam, now furnifhed with an ample flock of
logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
cured by land or water, of the belt quality :
The dwelling house if well calculated for the use
of (he miller, is new, and fufficiently large : The
bam is about 40 feet square, and entirely new :
The portage is 3-4thsof a mile in length, along
the Sensca-falls—over which were pafled in the
last year, nearly two hundred boats with their
contents ; this objeift is produiliva of a
1 handsome income, which mull be incrcafing and
permanent:
Among the many advantages of this situation,
mufl be numbered the fertility of thefurrounding
country—being the biftiaiproved part of tbecoun
ty of Onondaga—the concentration of intcr
courfe by land and water, the Seneffee ftateroad
palliijg through it, as well a, all water carriage to
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ;
which rtnders it a moll eligible Hand for a Store or
TltVern—The 1 river and lakes -abound in fi!h and
fowl, and thfi Country with deer and other game.
Besides the mills already ereiSled at this-plaee, it
is calculated for any additional water works that
may be found neceffury—Fulling mil], bark mill
tannery, forges, &c. may be ereitcd at a small ex.
pence—lron pre may be brought in boats Irom the
Cayuga lake ; and it is theught to abound in the""
neighborhood.
The stock on hand w : ]l be fold to the leflee, and
the cattle, utensils, l'mith's forge, &e. may be fold
or let the prcmifes. /
If a purchase (hould offer for the whole or an
undivided part of the prcmifes it will be fold.
Far terms of sale or deafe, apply to mr: Wil
aEi.Mo? Mynderse, at the Seneca falls, or to the
fublcri&er, at Schen«ftady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD,
ji'.ne t? law am
Federal Mills,
\ DJOINING Georgetown, ar.d the City of
il Washington, will be offered at Public Sale,
on the ioth day of September nsxt, at the Union
Tavern, if not previously fold at Private sale.
Those mills in point of situation for bafinefsand
na'ural advantages are generally admitted to be
equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brick house, eu; -ty feet by fifty, aimofl
new, in which £re erected four pair of JJurr mill
llones with elevator*, hopperhoys and bolting
cloths, completely finilhed and confirmed in such
a manner that the whole of the mills may manu
fa&ure flour at the fame tiui .The country mill
which is creiTed"near the other, i; entirely new,
a strong stone bsilding, containing oae pur el
stones, and built in such a manner that the second"
pair oiay be put up with little expuice. This mill
is conveniently fiiiilhed, and calculated to carry ot)
extensively, country work, of which it gets a con
stant supply. There is belonging to the laid :nills
27 t acres of land, the whole of which will be
(old with the mills.
One third of the purchase money will be requir
ed in sixty days from the day of sale, and f_>r the
balance a liberal credit wiil be given. Furthsr
particulars wiifbe madsknuwti or. the day of sale.
JOSEPH E. ROWLES,
Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROW'LES Is" Co.
Georgetown, july 13. —3awti
AN ACT
rfr /fc rcli.f tf the Refugees si the Briti/f> |
pimincej of Canada and A j ; >t - Sr.itra.
o H it emitted by the Senate ar.d Hoqfi
fC ' 'i) of Reprefent.itti-cs of the Vnittd■
States of America, in Congreft ajfetnblei, That
to faiisfy the claims of certain p, i fons'ciiiming
lands under the resolutions of Congress, of the
twenty-third of April, one thoufuml seven hun
dred and eighty-three, ;nd the thirteenth of
Apiil, one thousand seven hundred and {figjity?
five, as refugees from the Briliih province* of
Csnail* and Nora-Scotia, Hie Secretary for the
Department o£ War, be, and is hereby autho
rized and to give notice in one or more
of the public papers of each of the States Of
Veriportf, Valfachofetts, New-York, Ne\r-
H'arap,<hire and Pennsylvania, to a! 1 -perlbris leav
ing chim.s under iHe fiid refoiutions, to trans
mit to the War-cffice, within after
the pa fling of tbis'adl, a jufl and true account
of theij; claim:) to the bounty of Coßjrrefs-
S»c. :. And b: it further enitftcJ, That no
othtr persons /halt be to thebonefit of the
providons of this a£l, thantliofeof (he follow
ing dcl'criptions, or thrir widpws and heirs, viz.
i'irft, thole heads of families, and fingk- per
lons, not roemblrs of ary such families, who
\tere residents i;i one of the provinces aforr/aid,
prior to the fourth day of July, one thousand i
seven hundred and seventy-six, and who aban- ;
doned their lettlemerits, in conftq'ienceof i-av- >
ing given aid to the United Colcives or states, |
in the revolutionary War ajiai-ft Great-Britain, j
or with intention to give such sid, and continu
ed in the United States, »r in their service, dur- :
ing the said war, and did not return to reside In ]
the dominions of the king of Great-Britain, j
pri<w- to the twenty-fifth of November, one I
ihoufitid seven hundred aud eighty-three. Sc- ;
condly, the widows and heirs of all such per
sons as were refidents, as aforefaid, who"
abandoned th<ir tettlemer.ts, as aforefaid, and i
died within the United Statss, or in their fer- j
vice during the fasd war : and thirdly, all per- |
fbnS who were members of families at the time j
of their coming into the United State*, and who
during the war, entered into their service.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted. That the
proff of the several circumftnnces neceflary to
entitle the applicants to the benefits of this ad), !
may be takeli before'l judge of the ftipreme or
fcourt of |he United Stales, or a judge
of thi' fiiprertiej»r'f!ipe*ior coiirt, or the firft j«i
lice or firft judge of the court ot common pleai
or county com t of any State.
Sec. 4. And be it further enafled, That at
the expiration of fifteen months from and after
the passing of th'is ait, and from fime to time
thereafter, it ftiall be the dMty of the Secretary
for the Department of War, fuch evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
and'with fliem, pr >ceed to examine the teiti
mony, and give their judgment what quantity
of land ought to be allowed to the individual
claimants, in proportion to the degree of their
refpedtive Cervices, fa#i<ices and funertngi, in
confequcnce of their attachment to the cause of
<h« United States ; allowing to those of the firft
class a quantity notexceejingone thoufandacres ;
and to the last class, a quantity not exceeding
one hundred, makipg such intermediate clafTes
as the refoiutions and distributive jus
tice, may, in their judgment require, and make
report thereof, to Congress. Ai*d in cafe any
furh claimant (hall have sustained such loflVs and
fufierings, or performed such services for the
United States, that he cannot justly be clafled
in a-ny one general class, a separate report shall
be made of hra c'ircum fiancee, together with the
quantity of land that ought to be allowed him,
having reference to the foregoing ratio : Pro
vided, that in considering what compenf.iti»u
ought to be made by virtue of this a<9, all grants
except miKtary grants, which may have been
made by the flowed S.tatcs, or individual States,
ffrall be considered at the just value thereof, at
the time the fame were made, rt fpedVively, ei
ther in whole or in part, as the cafe maiy be, a
I'atiefaiflion to those who may have received the
fame: Provided a/so, that no claim under this
law, {hail be assignable until after report madef
to Congress, m aforefaid, and until the said
lands he granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this ad.
Sec. j'. lie it further enaSt d, That all claims
in virtue of said resolutions of Congress, which
fholl not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
time by this a<ft limited, (hall forever thereafter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the Haufe of Representatives
TH : JEFFERSON,
ViK-Prtfdent of the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, 7, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Pr eft dent of the Unitmi States-
Depofitfd among the Rolls in the office of the
Department of State,
Timothy Pickhring,
Secretary of State.
CI/* Pursuant to the above Afl, No-
tice is hereby given to all persons hav
ing claims under the refojutions of Con
gress, of the 23d of April, 1753, and
the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto
the War-Office within two years after
the passing of the said Aft, viz. the 7th
day of, April 1 , 1798, a just and true ac
count of their claims to the bounty of
Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a ftri£l atten
tion mutt: be paid to the requisitions of
the.2d and 3d Seftions of the Aft.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of IVar.
juTy f9 sa\v6w
LANDING,
AtSouth Street wharf, the cargo of the (hip Con
nedicut, froai via—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of the growth of 1794 and 179J
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In cannifters—for sale by
PETER BLIGHT,
WHO ALSO OFFERS Fi)K SAM,
150 hhds. choice famaicj Sugars
-Jamaica rum in hhds
■Sfandy xft and 4th proof In pipes, hhds. {
and qtiartsr calks
" Madeira in pipes (
Old Batavii Arrack
july 1 S
This Day is Publilhed,
AND FOR SALE BY J. FENNO, Iiq.CHESNUT-S ' REIT
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, pr®grefs and prefewt Pate of
French aggrefiton. with a (ketch of the infamous
?ttenpts to degrade the Government of the United
ritatcf, and ferne refleclio's 00 the lar_• proceeding,
in Congress; written the l*tl of April in the nre
fect year, by a Member of the IjttMe of Ucprefea
-muir* S juneu
»
m&pr DJscorEßr.
A elrtain Cure for that atarsning a* J i, aif ml DUmJtr,
The Yellow Fever,
At n cti at any othr demerit putrid fever, fev:r ,*4
opir, <ind ijltr imvtttrctt ft 4 ttmfiimliitdijcajis, If
tU uft of tb?
POUPRE UNIQUE,
WELL known and patented mEngland.Frsncej
Poland, ai. J all the capital cities in
i where the moil aftonijhing euro have been eflcd
cl tap persons judged incapable by all phyticiani.
Jn aTreatile printed in on the propertietl
of riu> powder, by T. Seymdur, M. 1) lite Che
mid to his Majesty, there are (latod two hundred
cases, where this most valuable remedy his proved
infallible, in mil kind of fevers, ptemrify, Uoody flux*
invtntc theurzatifms, J'cutL'a, apoplexy,' paialijic, yel-
IfViSmaJtc!, ringvfrm, ■worms ir ctildien and in grntim
f cr/mt, *uf»7ej', chronica) headand fluihtd aches, hrp.i
tut and * / f't -thai tr for; cbolic, the timgt roil, /curvy
an J tie mojl tu liberate t*d complicated venereal disuse. It
is Ukcwile the best preparative for th« i'mallpox
audmeaflej; ol the greatest utility for young as
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their
life. The efii.acy of this powder 111 laveral of the
above diseases kas been dilcovercd by chance, and
so :: has been in the yeHow fever lad year, by Mr.
Mahy, who cured several by adminiftcriiij; only
inn of the laid poxvJen, and loft not a single pa
tient which he undertook to cure, at pried and
atteiled by the here annexed certificate*, whose ori
ginal may be fecn at Andrew Halftg't umbrella shop,
No. Ijr, corr.tr tf Cbefnt- and F.urthJlreett, the on
ly place where tW'e powders are to b« had, witfc
proper\Jiredions for the us; of them Prkt txvm
dollars.
The ufefu'nefs and certainty of thn remedy be
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, any
pt rfon wilhing to be provided with those powders,
will please to apply very soon, as the quantity at
hand is rot very large, and it isdoubitul if for a
l«ng time, or if ever any other genuine will b« im
ported, the Lcret remaining only in the hands of
the inventor, in Europe, and never being commu
nicated to, or (Jifcovered by any othsr person.
N. B. In the yellow and putrid fevers, thispow
der mud be takes th« lecond, or at lsaft the third
day.
We the fubferibert, during the late ficknef* in
this city, having taken the y "ow fever, applied to
"fir. Mahy for" his medical affiflanee, wc do here
by certily, that by a certain powder, called the
Pou&e Unijue, we ware perfectly recovered from
the'faiil fauhficknefs, and from an experience of
the happy &fFe<sls of the above moll valuable medi
cine, consider it our duty to make the fauve knawn,
for the beneSt of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Joacs,
MylusO'Consor,
JoTc Turner,
Ckriften Rebecca Dow,
Catherin Apple,
Ann Grovor,
William Dills,
David Williams, carpenter,
William T Donaldfon, mast-maker.
Mr. Mahy's well known Plaider, for all kind of
wound* and (ores, to be had at the above direc
tion, No 131, Coefnut (Iraet.
august X »awtf
DESERTED, ~
FROM on board the Ship of war Delaware, ly
ing in Nantalket Road, Jofe.ph porter, 5 feet
10 inches high, ajjed 28, born at Concord, Ches
ter o>urrty, !lat,e of Pennfylvaiia, sandy hair and
complexion.
Win. Moon, aged 25, 5 feet 10 inches high,
1 red hair and red complexion, born in Philadelphia
—the only cloaths taken with him is a fait of ma
rine cloathing.
Whoever apprehends the said deserters, (hill rear
•ceive ten dollars for by applying to
W. W. BURROWS, JL
Major of the Marine Csrps.
Wants Employment,
AYQUNG MAN, who hat served a regu
lar apprentieefhip to the mercantile bufi
nef? in this pity, wiflies to engage in a Couuting
house or offica, writes a good hand and nnder
llands accounts, can he well recommended and
feenrity given if required. Enquire at the
oiTice of this Gazette,
june it . jawtf
General Port-Office,
PROPOSALS for carrying the mails »f the
United States on the following routes will
be received at this office until the 20th of
September next inclulive.
1. from Pittlburg P. by Cannon/burg, Wash
ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills
town to Zanes at the mouth of Licking-creek,
cm tke Mufliingum, estimated 140 miles.
Leave Pitliburg every Friday at a P. M). and
arrive at Zane9 the next Monday by 8 P. M.
, Returning—Leave Zones every Tuesday at J.
a. m. and arrive at Pittfcurg the next Friday by
10 A. M.
2. From Zanes, at the moutlv of Lickine
Creek on the Mufltinguni, by Chilicothe and
Mafiey's to Miyfville ill Kentucky ; eftanated
140 miles.
Leave Zanes every T«efday at 5 a. m. and
arrive at Miyfville the next Friday by 10 A. M.
Rclurni;ig-—L.ei\ , e Moyfville every Friday by
2 P.M. and arrive at next Monday by
Sp. m.
The carriage of the mailj to commence on the
firft day of November next and continue until
the firfi day of Oilober 1800. Payments will
be made quarterly.
The ul'ual penalties for delays and failures will
be flipuUtrd in the contrail.
Jofcph Habcrfljam,
PoJl'MaJler General.
Philadelphia. Tulv 13. 1198. mftth6w
HEALTH OFFICE.
Pti'adelfHn, T/l May, 1798.
IJxtra<sl of an to alter ami amend the Hulth
Laws of this Commonwealth, palTcd 4th apnl
1798.
r, g. A ND he it further enicled hy th'- au
c * X V thority alorf'aid, That every honfr
keeprr wi»hiu the city ef Philadelphia, th ; to*ii
fhips of the Northern Liberties and Moyam-iiiHng,
and dillriii of Southward, within a niil»- of tho ti
mitsof the city, tajcing in arrivitv l>y (e»
or by land, from any Icrcipnport or pl-ci, and ha
ving any ho«ri!«r inhisor her lanuly, whofiiatf be
taken f;ek n: aay ciifealc wharfocver, beHvcen the
firll day of May aud the firft day of November iu
any year, wirbin twenty day» nt „.«Jter fucli boar
der Stall emie to lodge in ins or her house, (ball
within 14 hours next fclter the knowledge of fueh
ficknef*. make report »t ihe liealtii.Office of the
name of such sick period, the tunc of his Or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick,
and of the name and p'acc of u' ode of fueh houl'c- A
ktep.r; whereupon the Hhyficiat of the Heakh- H
Office kill fortlinith viftt the patient, *ndrt*pore
to the ulSce his opinion of tlie nature of fucli dif
eafij, that meafufet may he taken to prevent the
fprcatiiug of 11)»mfc&icn; and it ary houftfkeeper
stall negledlto give information in the manner ai d
within tlie time aforcfaid, and (hall.he thereof eon
vlC'ed, in any court of crimiaal jarisdicflion witnin
thii Conimouwealtli upon indiiflmc tby vtTdift
or conleffioii, he or ihe fuall loxleit and ply a fine
to the ule of the said hofpital,not lefsthan twenty
I'ollsrs, nor more chan otn. hundred dollars, to be
imposed at the difcreiior. 1 f the court, according to
the circumftawccr ol greater or let aggravation M
tend.i.- each pa-ti-nlar cal'e.
i>y order i<i the Boafd of Health,
W.\t,Af;LlfN, lit;lth Officer,
ot the Port ot Philaiclphia.