6a?ette of tse Philadelphia
.
By John Fennq, N O, 119 Cbefnut Street.
Number 1767.J
message
OF tbe Prefid«nt of the United States,
To both Houffs of Congress,
May 4th, 179#.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemen if the HouJ: of Representatives.
I now transmit to congress espies of all
the communications, from our envoys ex
'4l trao^.'nary, received since their arrival in
Paris, excepting those before prcfented by
Jne to both koufes.
JOHN ADAMS.
Unite J Staler, |
May Ajh, 1798. J
(No. 6.)
Paris, February Ith, 1798.
Dear Sir,
WE transmit to you in this inclofure
our last letter to the minister of foreign re
lations ; though dated the 17th ult. it was
not, on account of the time taken to tranf-
Jate so long a letter, delivered till the 31ft.
In our communications here, although we
have, agreeably to yowr initrudlions, writ
ten in our own language, we at the fame
Itime have taken the precaution, left our
Jaeaniiig should be misrepresented or mif
linderftood, to accompany them with an ac
curate translation. Wt have not yet re
ceived any answer to this communication,
and (hould 110 rot ee b'' tak'in of it in a
few days, we shall apply in a more explicit
manner for our passports.
The councils have puffed the decree men
tioned in No 5. as hgving been recommen
ded by the direitory to capture and con
demn all neutral vessels laden in part or in
whole with the manufactures or produc
tions of England or its pofiefllond. We
indofe you the official copy of the report
on that fubje£t, a d shall represent to this
government the injustice and injury which
it mult inevitably occasion us.
We have the henor to be, with great ref
pt&, your most obedient humble servants,
Charles Cotefioorth Pinclney,
J Marjhall,
E. Get ry.
Col. Pickering, 1
Secretary of the United States, y
To TUt MINISTER ot FOREIGN AFFAIRS or
the FJUNCH REPUBLIC.
Citizen Min 'tfitr,,
THE twderfigned envoys extraordinary
andminiftersplenipotentiary from the United
States of America to the French republic,
have been hitherto restrained by the expec
tation of entering on the objedts of their
million in the forms usual among nations,
from addreffi-igto the cxtcutiyedire-ftory,
through yon, t&ofe~explanations and rc
elamations with which they are charged by
the government they represent. If this
expeftation is to be relinqilifhed, yet the
unfeigned wish of the United States to re
store that harmony between the tw» repub
lics, which they have so unremittingly
fought to preserve, renders it the duty of
the urderfigned to lay before the govern
ment of France, however informal the com
munication may be deemed, some consider
ations, in addition to tliofe already submit
ted, relative to the fubfiftiug differences be
tween the two nations.
Openly and repeatedly have France and
America interchanged unequivocal testimo
nials of reciprocal regard- These teftimo
•nials were given by the United States, with
all the ardor and sincerity of youth. It i« i
flill believed that on the part of France
they-were likewise the offspring of real es
teem. They were considered on the other
fide of the Atlantic as evidencing a mature
friendfhip tD bea3 durable republics
themselves. Unhappily the scene Is chang
ed ; and America looks around in vain for
the ally or the friend. The contrail both
of language and of conduit which the prc
fent so avowedly exhibits to a portion of
the pail, has been repeatedly attributed by
France, to a disposition alledged to exist in
the government of the U<y'ted States, un
friendly to (his republic, and partial towards
its enemies.
That government, aflonifhed ac a re
proach so unfounded in fail, so contradift
ed by its declarations and its conduit, could
scarcely cohfider this charge as serious, and
has ever cherished the hope, that a candid
review of its conduit founded on the docu
ments, and aided by the arguments with
which (he executive directory has been fur
nifhed Would have refcuedit from the inju
rious fufpifcion. This hope seems not to
have been realized. The undersigned,
therefore, deem it proper to precede their
application for that justice which they claim
from France, by an effort to remove the
'Cause, which is alledged to have produced
the injuries of which they complain. With
this view, they pray the attention of the
(xecutiVe direitory to a serious and candid
re-confijeration of the leading measures a
dopted by the government of the United
States, Bnd they perfuadq themselves, that
however various and multiplied the channels
may be through which mis-information,
concerning the difpolitions of that govern
ment, n»ay have been received, yet this ic
confideration mult remove unfounded pre
judices and entirely exculpate the American
nation from an accusation it knows to be
unfounded, and believes to be supported J>y
no fiuglc fad.
When that war which has been waged
with fueh unparalleled fury, which in its
Aratt ricißtudes of fortune, has alternately
threatened the very existence of the con- ]
Hitting parties, but which, in its progress, 1
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, MAT io, 1798.
has furrotinded France with such splendor,
and added still more to her glory than her
territory, when that war firft. involved those
nations with whom the United were
in habits of friendly mtercourfe, it became
incumbent on their government to examine
their situation, their connexions and their
duties. America found heHUT at peace
i with all of the belligerent powers. She
■ was conneited with some of them by trea
-1 ties of amity and commerce, and with
France by a treaty of alliance also. These
several treaties were considered with the
most serious attention,, and with a sincere
wish to determine by fair conftruition the
obligations which they really imposed.
The result of this enquiry, was a full con
viction, that her engagements by no means
bound her to take part in the war, Wut left
her so far the mistress of her own conduit
' as to be at perfeit liberty to observe a fyf
; tem of real neutrality. It is deemed un
; necefliry to analize those treaties in order
' j to support the piopriety of this decision,
because it is not recollcited ever to have
: been questioned and is believed 'not to ad
mit of doubt.
: Being bound by no duty to enter into the
war, the government of the United States
conceived itfelf bound by duties the most
' sacred to abstain from it. Contemplating
' ; man, even in a different society, as the
1 : friend of man, a state of peace, though
'unftipulated by treaty, was considered as
imposing obligations not to be wantonly vi
olated.
These obligations created by the laws of
natrre, were in some inHauces strengthened
by solemn existing engagements, of which
good faith required a religious observance.
To a sense of moral right, other consider
ations of the greatest magnitude were add
ed, which so bade the government of the
United States to plunge them unnecessarily
into the miseries of the bloody eonfliit then
commencing. The great nations of Europe
either impelled by ambition, or by existing
or supposed political interests, peculiar to
themselves, have consumed more than a third
of the prcfent century in wars. Whatever
caufcs may have produced so afflicting an e
vil, they cannot be supposed to have been
entirely extinguished* and humanity can
scarcely indulge the' hrpe, that the temper
or condition of man is so altered as to ex
empt the next century from the ills of the
past. Strong fortifications, powerful envies,
immense armies, the accumulated wealth of
ages and a full population, enable the na
tions of Europe to support those wars in
which they are induced to engage, by mo
tives which they deem adequate, and by in
terests. inclusively their own. In;*ll refpefls \
different is the situation of the United
States; poffeffedof an cxtenfiveunfettledter
ritory, on which bountiful nature has be
stowed with a lavilh hand all the capacities
for future legitimate greatness, they indulge
no thirst f#r conquest, no ambition for the
extension of their limits. Encircled by no
dangerous powers they neither fear, nor are
jealous of their neighbours, and are not on
that account Obliged to arm for their own
fafetv. Separated from Europe by a vast
and friendly ocean, they are but remotely,
if at all, affeited by those interests, which
agitate and influence this portion of the
globe. Thus circumftasced, they have no
motive for a voluntary war. On the con
trary, the njoft powerful considerations urge,
them to avoid it.—An extensive and unde
fended commerce, peculiarly necessary to a
nation which does not manufacture for it
felf, which is, and for a long time to come,
will be almost exclusively agricultural,would
have been its immediate and certain viitim.
The surplus produce of their labour must
twrve-pcTrfhed on their hands, and that in
crease of population so essential to a young
country, must, with their prosperity, have
sustained a serious check. Their exertions
too would not have been considerable, unless
the war had been transferred to their own
bosoms.
Great as are the means and resources of
the United States, for felf-defence, 'tis only
jn felf-defence that those resources can be
eompletelv displayed. Neither the genius
of the nation, nor the state of its finances,
admit of calling its citizens from the plough,
but to defend their own liberty and their
own fire-fides. How criminal must have
been that government which could have
plunged its constituents in a war, to which
they were neither impelled by duty nor soli
cited by interest } in which they committed
so much to hazard ; in which they must
fuffer, in ordet to aft efficiently, and could
onlydi play their energy too in repelling in
vasion ! B«t motives still more powerful
than the calamities of the moment, have in
fluenced the government of the United
States.
It was perhaps impoflible to have en
j gaged voluntarily in the existing conflifl,
| without launching into the almoll boundless
' ocean of European politics, without con
tradting habits of national condu&, and
furming close political connexions which
must have compromised the future peace
of the nation, and have involved it in all the
future quarrels of Europe. A long train
of armies, debts and taxes, checking the
growth, diminishing the happiness, and per
haps endangering the liberty of the United
States, must have followed th 6 adoption of
such a system. And' for what purpose
{hould it have been adopted ? For what pur
pose should America thus hurthen herfelf
with the conflidn of Europe ? to corcu
ply with any engagements she has formed, 1
not to promote her own view:-, her own
objects, her own h.ippipefs, orherowq fafe
• ty, but to move as a Satellite around some
greater Pianct, whose law, she must of neces
sity obey. In addition to tliefe weighty
co ifiderationi, it was believed that France
would derive mcife fcufnefit from the neutral
ity of Araeriea, than from her becoming a
party ill the war.
'she determination then of the govern
ment of the United States to preserve that
neutral (latinn in which the war found them,
far from manifefting a partiality for the en
emies of Trance, was only a measure of jus
tice to itfelf and to others, and did not even
derogate from that ptedilefkion for this re
public, which it has so repeatedly expressed
and displayed. Having avowed this detert
mination, encreafed motives of honor aud of
duty commanded ks faithful observance. It
is not a principle which remains now'.to be
fettled, that a fraudulent neutrality is no
neutrality at all; and that the nation which
would be admitted to its privileges must al
so perform the duties it enjoins. Had the
government of the United S ates, declaring
itfelf neutral, indulged its partialities by
granting favours unftipulated by treaty, to
one 1 ps the belligerent powers, which it re
fused to another, it could no longer have
claimed the immunities of a fituatiog of
which the obligations were forgottou, it
would have become a party to the war, as
certainly as if war had been openly and for
mally declared, and it wou d have added to
the madness of wantonly engaging in such
a hazardous conflict, the difhouor of iiifin
cere and fraudulent conduft ; it would have
attained circuitoufly an objeft which it
could not plainly avow, or dire&ly pursue,
and would have tricked the people of the
United States into a war, which it could
not venture openly to declare.
It was matter of real delight to the gov
ernment and people of America, to he in
formed that France did not wish to interrupt
the peace they enjoyed.
The underfuned have been induced to reft
upon this firft necessary anddecifive ttep ta
ken by their government, altho* its propri
ety may not be controverted, from a Con
viftion, that if the right of the United
States, to observe a fair and honest neutra
lity be established, the general charges of an
unfriendly disposition, made aoainft them
by France, must be relinquifted, beCaufc
the fadls, by which those charges a>e sup
ported, will be found to have grown inevit
ably out of that situation,
Thismeafure wasaccompanied by another
which, in repelling so astonishing a charge
as partiality for the enemies of Frahce, de
serves to i>e noticed-. Soon after the $? v ;
eminent of the United States had notified
to its eitixera the duties which its neutrality
enjoined, Mr. Genet, the firft minister from
this Republic, arrived at Philadelphia : al
tho' his rondudl had been such as to give
cause for serious alarm, altho' before hfe wai
even acknowledged as a minister. ®r had
reached the authority which could infpedt
his credentials, he had assumed the fun&ions
of the government to which he was depu
ted. Yet the government resolved ?o fee in
him only the Representative of a Republic
to which it was finctrely attached, gave him
the fame warm and cordial reception which
he had experienced from its citizens, with
out a fiugle exception from Charleston to
Philadelphia. The then fitua ionof France
deserves to be remembered.
While the rccolle&ion 'adds, citizen mi
nister, to the gloiy with which your nation
is encircled, it establishes the sincerity of the
United States.
The most formidable combination the
werld had ever seen, threateu.-d the extermi
nation of this Republic. Austria, Germa
ny, Pruflia, Britain, Spain, Holland and
Sardinia were in arms against France, and
Russia was leagued in the coalition. Nor
was this alt. The Republic, diftrafted by
internal divisions, contained numerous ene
mies within its own bosom, and a consider
able portion of its proper force Was arrayed
againft itfelf. In such a state of things,
the most sanguine might fear, and the most
ardent hesitate. Confident in their strength
end relying on success, the coalesced pow
powers fought to arm in their cause the re
iidue of the world, and deemed it criminal
to acknowledge the sovereignty of the Re
public. The nations of Europe, even those
who had not entered into the contest, were
either of themselves unwilling to acknow
ledge this sovereignty, or were deterred by
fear from doing so. Had the partialities of
America been againft,France, thii exinjph;
would have been followed. According to
the rules ofcrdinary calculation, the measure
would have been fafe, and consequently a
government feeling the attachments now f >
unjiiflly attributed to that of the United
States, would have indicated those attach
ments by its adoption. Far from purfuijjta
such a system the United States, unawed by
the strength of the coalition, received with
open arms the minister of this Republic, ac
knowledged with enthusiasm the govern
ment which had deputed him, overlooked
his extraordinary attacks on their sovereign
ty and manifefted a cordial friendfhip for
his Nation and a sincere wish for its success.
Scarcely were the firft c'eremoi-'es of his
reception over, when Mr. Genet displayed
a disposition to usurp and exercise, within
the United States, the choiceftand most im
portant duties and powers of sovereignty.
He claimed the privileges of arming and
embodying the citizens of America within
their own territory, to carry on from thence
expeditions against nations with whom they
were at peace, of fitting out and equipping
■ within their limits privateers, to cruize on
• a commerce destined for their poi ts, of ex
ercifmg within their jurisdiction, an indepen
• dent judicial y, and of arraigning their gov
ernment at the bar of the people. The art-'
derfigned will not.ask in what inaiV-er France
woul i have treitetl any foreign miniJler who
should have dared so to condiift himfelf to
wards this republic ? But in what manner
would the American government have treat
ed such a minister, if the representative of
a nation it viewed with coldness, or even in
difference ? In what manner would it have
treated him, had he been the representative
of any other nation than France i No man
acquainted with that government can doubt
how these enquiries ought to be answered.
From the minister of France alone could
this extraordinary conduit be borne with
temper. To have-contitiued to have brtrnft
it, without perceiving and feeling its ex
treme impropriety, would have been to have
merited the contempt as well of France ai
of the other powers of the earth. The gov.
ernment of the Uuited States did it ;
but far from transferring to his nation that
resentment, which fndj conduct could not
fail to excite, it diftioguifhed strongly bet
ween the government and its minister, and
the representations it made were in the lan
guage of a friend afflicted but not irritated
by the injuries it complained of. The re
call of that minister was received ikith uni
verfat joy, as a confirmation that his whole
fyft em of conduct was attributable unly to I
himfelf; and not even the publication of
fiis private inftruftions could persuade the
American government to ascribe any part of
it to this republic.
At the fame time the exertions of the U
nited States to pay up the arrearages of their
debt to France, which had been «navoidab : y
permitted to accumulate, to make disinter
ested and liberal advances to the fufferers of
St. Domingo,, thrown suddenly upon them
without provisions or money, whose recom
mendation was that they were Frenchmen
aud unfortunate, the perseverance with
which they apologized for and ascribed any
occasional injuries they sustained to the force
of circumstances, the interest which they
continued openly to take in all the fortunes
of this republic, manifefted partialities of
a very different fort from those which have
been so unjiiftly attributed to them.
At this period too, a great principle was
brought into discussion, the dispassionate
consideration of which is essential to the fair
eftimateof the charges made by France a'
gainst the government of the United States.
The property of French citizens was taken
by Britilh cruizers and (hips of war, out of
American bottoms, and the American gov
ernment submitted to the practice. The
propriety of fubmittigg to it depends entire
ly on the naked right of the captors,' un
der the existing circumstances of the cafe, to
exercise such a power. The circumstances
were these. In the treaty of commerce
made between France aud the United States
in February 1778, it was flipulatsd in sub
stance, that neither party should take out of
the veffelj of the other, the goods of its en
emy,. but that the < haracter of the bottom
ftiould.be imparted to its cargo. With Eng
land trie United States had made 110 ilipu
lation on the fdbjeft.
It follows-then that the rights of Eng
land, being neither diminilhcd or encreafed
by compaa, remained precisely in their na
tural state, and were to be ascertained by
some pre-exifling acknowledged principle.
This principle is to be searched for in the
law of nations. That law forms, indepen
dent of curtipaft, a rule of adtion by which
the Sovereignties of the civilized world con
sent to be governed. It pnferibes what
one nation may do without giving jult cause 1
of war, and what, of confeq ence, another
may& ought being c<>nfi.
dtted as having facrificed its honour,its dig
nity or independence.
What then is the do&rine of the law of
nations on thisfubjedt ? Do neutral bottoms
of right, independent of particular com
pa£t' protedt hoflile goodsW The question
is to be considered on its own right, unin
fluenced bv the wishes or the interest? of a
rteutral or belligerent power.
It isajjeneral rule that war gives to a bel
ligerent power a right to seize and confif
cate the goods of hit enemy. However
humanity may deplore th« application of
this principle, there is perhaps no one to
which man has more universally assented, or
to which jtirifts have more uniformly agreed.
Its theory and its praiStice have unhappily
"been maintained in all ages. This right 1
then may ba 'exercised on the goods of an !
enemy wherever found, unlef6 yppofed by ,
some superior right, ft yields by common j
consent to the superior right of i neutral t
nation to protef.t, by virtueof its sovereign- |
I ty, the goods of either of the belligerent '
powers found within its jnrifdi&ian. But '
<;an this right of protection, admitted to |
be possessed by every government within its |
own limits in virtue of its absolute fove- (
reig..ty, be communicated to a veflel navi- \
gaiing the high seas ? t
It is supposed that.it cannot be so com- '
- 1
mon to all nations no abfo'ute fovereigntf '
can be acquired in it ; the'rights of all are c
equal, and must necessarily check, limit and f
restrain each -other. The superior right 1
therefore of absolute sovereignty to pro- i
ted all proper:y within its own territory, T
ceases to b» superior when tlu- property is v
no longer within it» own territory, and may
be encountered hy the opposing acknowled
ged of a bell power to seize \
[Vcu-M£ XIII.
i and confifcatc the goods of hi# tneniy.
- the belligerent permits, the neutral to at
- tempt, without hazard to himfelf, thus to
• fervt arid aid Ills enemy, yet he does not
rclmquilh the richr tbftl at
tempt whenever it (hall be in his power to
i defeat it. Tims it is admitted that an ar
med Vtfief may (lop and ftareh at sea a neu*
tral button), and may take out goods,
which are contraband cf war, without g:v
iugcaufeof offence, or bei:ig supposed in
■ any degree to infringe neutral rights. But
this pradlice could not be permitted within
the rivers, harbo sor other places of a neu
tral, where its fovereigrty was complete.
It follows then that the full right of afford
ing protection to a!l property whatever,
within its own territory, which i inherent
in every government is not tTansff red to a
veflel navigating the high feac. The right
of a belligereht over the goods of his ene
my within his reach, is as complete, as his
right over contraband cvf war, and it seems
a position not eafi y to be ntfuted, that a
situation that will not protefl the- one, will
not protect the other. A neutral bottofn
then does not of right, in cases where no
compaA exists, protect from his enemy the
goods of a belligerent power.
1 o thisreafuning, the pradiceof nations fija
conformed, and the common undeHtuidir.g of
uianiind fcems to hare afh-nted. Vatfel, 15. 5.
Seel. 115, fays pofitivi?ly, " that effeCTs be
" iongtug to in enemy, found < n boa d a neu
trai (hip are feizable by the rights of war."
Vjttel is believed to liipporte<! by tlie inoft
approved writers oh the lame fuhjeift, It is
deemed unneceflary to multiply citations to this
point ; because Trance herfclt is supposed to have
decided it. In her maritime ordonnance at tlie
year t?4 4, which is considered as having been
in force in 1775, enemy good-, in neutral bot
toms, generally, are declared liable to (eieure
and confil'cation. From the operation of this
rule are excepted the veflels of Denmark and
• the United Provinces, to whom special treaties
secured the exception. In the ordonnance of
the j6;h July, I j 78, the firft ariicle of which is
considered as forbidding the cruizers of France
to (lop and bring into port neutral veflels, hav
ing on board the go ads of an enemy, a power is
reserved to revoke the jtrivi'ege granted ta neu
trals by that article, if th« enemy (hould not
grant the fame privilege within fix months from
the publication of that regulation. Tfiis clearly
indicates a that the exemption from
capture of the goods of an enemy, which
(hould be found on board the vessel cf a neutral
power, not having stipulated such exemption by
treaty,was a privilege granted by the ordonnance
and that the mere revocation of the ordonnance
would abdlilh the privilege, and reflore the an
cient rule. It will not be contended that France
continued in a long courfeof practice and of le
gislation opposed to her own opinion of the law
of jutions. It mult then be eonfidcrcd as the
opinion of France, that under the law neutral
bottoms afford no protection to the goods of an
enemy. 1 his principle thus admitted to have
been cltabl.fticd is supposed by some to have been
changed Uy the armed neutrality. A new law
of nations, it is contended, was introduced, by
that confederation. But who were the parties
to that federation, and what was its objeCt ?
I he northern maritime powers united to proteifl
by foice, in their own bottoms, during the then
exitting war, the goods of either and of all the
belligerent powers The compadt in its own
nature was confined with refpeifl to its objefl and
its duration. It did not purport to change nor
oould it change permanent!) and universally the
r'ghts of nations not becoming pirties to it. It
did indeed hold forth the protwite of future more
permanent and more general engagements for
thr lame objeil, bht such engagements were ne
ver formed Hbw then can tins temporary and
partial ronventi n be ponfidered as altering radi
cally and gentTi'ly, principles which have been
universally adopted, and in the modifications of
wit ch all. ha«e in interest ? Would France her
lelf admit that a combination, such as that
which constituted the armed neutrality, may
rightfully change the la w cf nations, and eftab
li(h a new code of universal obligation ? It is
believed ihat 110 nation , n earth would more
per.'everingly oppose such an invifi ,n of its fov
creigrtv.
t here seems then, to be no -/olid ground for
maintaining, that the generallaw of rations has
been at all varied hy the armed neutrality.
It remans to enquire whether the trealits.
between France and Ihe United States, pledce
Cither nation to assert and ertablifh the principle
that free bottoms make free goods.
The treaty of amity and commerce, conclud
ed the 6th February x 77 g, ftjpulates reciprocal
ly for the right of trading with and protean*
the goods of the enemy of either party in the
velicis of the other, and in turn-fuiTentiers its
own good, found in the veflels of an enemy, but
itcoutains noclaufe imposing on either partv the
duty O: extending the principle or of fupnort
ing its application to other nations. The i'tipu
!au«nsof that treaty are negative as well as af
lirrnative. They fpeeify as well the disabilities
intended, to be created and the duties to be im
p led as the privileges designed to be granted.
Had it been intended that either nation fhoull
have been bound to maintain ihi, principle in
i s intercourse with others, or (h„uld have been
111 any degree incapacitated from profecutin*
freely that intercourse, without the previous ad
miflioo of the principle, a llipuhtion to that ef
tedl would have bt*n made. No such flipula
tiot, having been made,, the parties cannot be
prefwaed to have intended if. Indeed it would
have been madneis in the United States, under
their actual circumflances, to have formed such
an asreer*ciit. There being no exprefi (tipula
•lion to this effc<£l, it cannot be I'uppofed to have
been Implied. Nations forming a Ueran com
pact wbich ought to regulate their conduit to
wards each ether, which is to be rcforted to for
the ftaudard of adjusting the.r differences, d®
n >t eav. to implication such delicate and impor
tant points. Indeed if a grett principle not
mentioned is pevmitre.l to be implied, theebieft '
of a written agreement, which'is itfelf to evj.
dence ail the obligation it creates, is totally de
feated. But who is to make the impljcation.and
10 what extent is implication to he allowed > It
i • very easy to perceive, that the dotfrine of im
p.yrng in rontrafls (lipulations never formed
woulddeflrwy all certainty of conftruflion, and
open a bound!-ft field of controversy wthec4W
trading parties.
It result* from tV very nature of a eontrift
whicb aft&s the rights of the parries, bat noror others, and from the admlflion of a general
rnie of aflion,binding independent of corapa&,
which may be changed by consent, but i» only
changed lo fir as that consent is actually given,
that a treaty between any two nationt mull leave
to all others those rights which the law of na
tions acknowledges ; sad mult leave each of
the contraiting parties fubje<3 to the operation of
those right*. For the truth of this position, be
lieved to be so clear in itfelf, aud which it is
supposed thehiftoryof all Europe will illustrate,
the ordonnance of 1744 already quoted is cru
fidercd as furnifhing an unequivocal authority.
By that ordonnance the law of nations is applied
to all th«fe neutrals with whom France had not
flipulated, that ihe quality of their bottoms
fkould be imparted to their cargoes, while those
with whom ftith stipulations hid been made are
of the law.
Thedefireof establishing nmverfally the prln.
eiple that neutral bottoms (hall make neutral
goods is peihaps felt by no nation on earth, 1
merj flrongly than by the United States. Per
haps no nation is more deeply interested in its
establishment. It is an objeft they keep in view
and if not forced by violence to abandon, they
will pursue in such manner as their own judg
ment may dictate as beft calculated to at
tain it ; but the with to establish a principle is
cflentially different from a determination that it
it already The ihterefts of the U
■iied States coujd not fail to produce the with,
their duty forbid them to indulge it, when de
ciding on a mere right. However ;(blicitous
America might be to pursue all proper means,
tending to obtait, for this principle the assent of
all or any of the maritime powers of Europe.
the never conceived the idea of obtaining that
tonfent by force. '■
The United States wjß only arm to defend their
wc rights, neither their policy nor .heir interelli
permit them to arm, in order to compel a furr.'nder
of t.ie rights of others. These and otlicr consid
erations, which have been fuhmitted to the govern
ment »{ Franc e produced on the part of the Uni
ted States, a decision, that their bottoms could n.ot
«f right prot'eA the goods of a belligerent power
from an enemy not bound to refpe<3 the principle.
This decision was founded on the mo(l perfecfl con
viAion that it was enjoined by the law of nations,
and that good faith, refpeiS for truth, and for the
duties of an upright and honest judgment, render
ed it indifpenflhle. This conviction remains un
shaken If these Arguments, which Hill appear
eonclufive to the American government, have not
the fame operation on the judgment of France,
they null at lead be fufficient to evince the sinceri
ty with which that government hasa&ed, and to
piove that its conduS, in this refpecS, was produc
ed by a sense of duty, and not by any partiality
for a nation again ft which it was, at that time,
considerably irritated by other eaufes.
The undcrftgned, citizen minister, rely too im
plicitly on your cardor and discernment to appre
hend that you will estimate iAipropcrly the motives
which on this efTential point have influenced and
guided the United Stares.
The early decision of the American government
on this fubjeA wc« immediately openly avowed,
•nd amply fupportcd by Mr. Jeffcrlon, the then
secretary of state, in his letter to Mr. Genet, dat
ed the 24th July, 179,'? ; and in his lettci to Mor
ris dated 16th Augnft in the fame year. The ar
guments tvhich those letters contain, were fuppof
«d co have fatisfied the goverument of France, ]
since its minifteri in the United States r.o longer
controverted the principle they supported. In
deed those arguments appeared too conclusive to
permit a doubt concerning the success which would
attend them.
In August 1794, when Mr. Monroe, the then
minister of the United States to this republic, was
received into the bofomof the convention, France
obvbufljr did not consider the acknowledgment of
this established principle of the law of nations, as
indicating a partiality towards her enemy. The
language used on the occasion could only have been
used to the rriiniflcr of a nation whose friendfhip
was valued and whose con'duft had evinced the sin
cerity of its profeflions. It was then declared
" that the fweetoft, the franked fraternity united
** in efife.3 the tvvo republics," and that " their
" union would be forever indissoluble " These
declarations made long after America had avowed
its neutrality, and had avowed its aequiefcence un
der the principle that a belligerent power, unres
trained by particular treaty, may of right take
out of the bottoms of a neutral, the goods of its
enemy, demon Orate that neither that neutrality
ior that aequiefcence induced the wanrof a proper
tegar I for France. The government of the Unit
ed States still cherishes the hope, that this true and 1
f3ir eflimate then made of its conduit, may be
loon resumed by a nation whose friendfhip it has '
rffiduoufly ahd unremittingly cultivated, by all '
those means which good faith and justice could
permit it to ulr. |
After the difciiflion of this intereflrngqueftioß ,
wasfuppofoJ to have been closed, ind France was
believed to have betn cnt rely content Vith that '
system in which theUnitedStates found themselves 1
bound to persevere, some Complaints were made,
oot against the principles adopted by the govern- ,
ment, but against the application of those princi- (
pies to particular cases supposed not to come with
in them. The neutrality of the United States '
eould not permit prize to be made of those velTels. t
belonging to rations wifb whom they were at t
pcac:, within their jurifdiftion, Or by privateers t
fitted cut it their own ports. Regulations to this
effe3 were necuflarily made, and to enforce the
obf; ryance of those regulations was a duty not to '
be with. The right of one of the belli
gerent powers, to obtain the teieafe of a vcffel cap
tured under such circumstances wa> asfacred as the
right of the captor of a veflel taken on the high
fsas and which according to the usages of war wa«
lawful prize. The United States were bound to
refpefi the rights of both. To do.so, it was ne
nefiary to examine the fads ; for v/hich purpose, a
tribunal, in which both parties might be fairly
heard, was unavoidable. Some complaints were
made of particular vexations, and each complaint
has heretofore been particularly attended to. It
is believed to be unnecefTarj; to review thele feve- 1
ral cases, bccaufe the underGgr.ed arc entirely per- t
fuaded that explanations already given mull have j
been completely fatisfaflory. Should any »ne of
them be still considered as furnifhing fubje& for I
complaint, the' undersigned will proceed to its in- 1
Teftigation, with the mo-, sincere desire to attain ;
truth, and torcdrefs the wrong, if any has been
committed. j
During this period, the causes of complaint ,
against Frasee, on the part of the United States,
were by no means inconsiderable. Their com- \
merce was not exempt from depredations, be
lieved to be entirely unwarrantable, made upon :
it by the Cruirers of this Republic.
On the 9th May 1793, the national conven
tion pafled a decree relative to the core merce of |
neutrals, the firil article of which is in tbefe
Words, " The French (hips of War and privn - ;
«« teers may flop and bring into the ports of the
*• republic fu»h neutral vefiels as are loaded, in '
« whole or in pa r t, either with be
"• longing to neutrals, and deftincd for enemy i
" ports, or with merchandise belonging to ene
" mies." In consequence of the remonftrancc*
of the American miniiler, the convention on the
13d May, declared " that the vefTele of the '
" United States are not coinprifed intheiegu- 1
" lations of the decree of the 9th May." On <
the aßth of the fame month the-conventioii re- I
pealed the decree of the 13d —Od the ill July j
they re-tflablifhed it. On the 47th July it was
again repealed. Under the decree of the 9th '
» May, theveflelsof the United States were cap- '
Hired, brought into the ports of France, and f
their cargoes disposed pf. Could this decree, '
d citizen minister, be regarded stherwife than ai
:, Tmringing the laws of nations, the righn of
v neutrais, and the particular engagtmems, fub
1, lifting Jpetween France and the United States ?
e When on the Bth June in the f.itnr year, the
British government iflued a fimiiar order, ics in
.f justice produced a ferment throughout America
if 'ndicating strung dispositions immediately to op
•- pose its execution by force. 'I he letter of Mr.
s Jrffrrfon, the then Secretary of State to the Mi
r, nifter Plenipotentiary ot the United States at
I- London, dated the 7th September 1793 and re
r. monftrating against the order of the jth June,
d contains so much juftnets of fentiinent and
it strength of argument, as to have been quoted
s by your predeceflor, in his letter to Mr- Mon
c tve of the 9th March 1796.
e It tapnot escape you citicen mi'mifler, that the
'argumenrt of Mr. Jefferfon, concerning the or
1. dts jof'thc June, apply conclusively to the
il decree of the 9th May ; . and that to them are to
1, , be addedtbole arguments which are to be drawn
-- from the hardfhipof l>eing absolutely compelled,
:s without Iny alterni'ive, to part with ihe cargoes
» in trance, and those also which are drawn from
y the duties iinpofed by an express and fotemn
•- treaty.
t- Nothing can demonflrate more conclusively
, the reaj, temper of the United States, than the
it difftrence between the reception given to the de-
L cree of the convention of the9th May, and that
i, which was given to the order of the Britiih cabi
net of the 8;h June,
s A large number of American veflels too were
5) for a long time detained at BourdeauX, very
,f much to the injury of the owners, without as
:, signing a motive for such detention, or putting
it it iR the power of the government to conjeiflure
the caufeof a meaftire which so deeply affefled
r the interest of their fellow citizens—Thifeand
■ other embarralfments wereexperienced, but they
x could net diminish the attachment of the United
I- States to France. Inthemidftof them, prayers
1- were offered up, through the whole extent of
i- the American continent, for the success of this
't Republic. The government feeling the fame
r sentiment, difplaycd it, at least as far as was
compatible with th: decent deportment required
" from a nation not a party in the war, and pro
'• fefling neutrality. Such would not have been
c the* condufl of a government and people, in fe
crct unfriendly to France
r Very ftr»ng and just resentments wre at that
t time inspired by the hostile condufl of Britain.
The inftruiHions of June 1793, Aihe
' rican vefTels laden with provisions for France,
, wire brought into the ports of Britain, there to
. fell such cargoes, or to give feciu ity to fell them
r in other pons in amity with England, and the
, still more cft'enfive order of November the 6th,
in the fame year, whfcieby veflels .laden with the
produce of a French colony were ordered to be
brought in for adjudication, added to the three
! pre-existing causes of mutual irritation, had
1 produced such a state of things as to render it
obvious that the injuries complained of by Ame
rica must be entirely done away, or that war
was the inevitable consequence.
This fbte of things was not so altered by the
order of the Bth of January 1794, revoking that
of the 6th of November 1793, as to promise a
different result. But as a nation prefering peace
to war will ei'ermake a peaceful demand of re
paration for injuries fuftaided before that repara
tion is fought by the sword, and as the policy of
America has ever been, " to pursue peace with
unremitting zeal before thelaft resource which
has so often been the fcoarg# of nations, and
could not fail to check the advanced profpenty
of the United States was contemplated," an en
voy extraordinary was deputed to his Britannic
Majesty. '■ Carrying with bim a full know
ledge of the cxifting temper and sensibility of
his Country, it was experSled that he would vin
dicate its rights .with firmnefs and cultivate
peace with sincerity."
Truly defiroua as the American govern
ment were of preserving peace with Britain,
its determination waa unalterable, not to
preserve it, nor to receive compenfatiori for
injuries fuflained, norfecurity against their
future commission, at the expence ps the
smallest of its engagements to France. Ex
plicit and positive inftruftions to this effeft
were given to Mr. Jay, and those inftrdc
tions were freely communicated to the min
ister of this republic then at Philadelphia.
The negociation of the American envoy
terminated in a treaty in many refpefti de
sirable to the United States.
But however desirable its objefts might
be, the government of the United States
would not have hesitated to rejeft had
they been accompanied with any stipulation
violating or weakening its engagements to
France. But it has been able to discern
no such stipulation. The twenty-fifth ar
ticle of that treaty guards thejjfights of
this republic by the following clause. "No
thing in this treaty contained shall, howev-'
er, be construed to operate contrary to for- -
mer and-txifting public treaties with other
sovereigns or states." The treaty with
France being " a former and existing public
treaty," and it being thus provided that no
thing contained in the treaty with Britain
" should be construed or operate contrary
to it," the government of the United States
did not apprehend that the treaty with Bri
tain could be considered as effecting its re- :
lations to France. But such was its atten
tion to its ally that the mftrument was pre- '
vious to its ratification submitted to the
consideration of the minister of this repub
lic, who was invited to communicate freely '
to the government of the United States,
such observations upon it as he might jadge
proper. Mr, Adet in a letter addressed to
Mr. Randolph, dated 12th Meflidor 3d
year of the French Republic (30th June
1795) expresses his sense ot this procedure
in the following words. " This frank mea
sure is to rae a sure guaranty of the friend
fhip of the American government towards ,
France, and of the fidelity with which it
always marks its condud towards a faithful
ally. He. then stated those refle&lons to
which.the reading6f the treaty had given
feirth. The articles which rUate to enemy
goods in neutral bottoms, are mentioned
without a comment. He contended that
the lift of contraband was swelled, and
that the 23d, 24th and 25th articles of the
treaty with Britain, ceded to that power
advantages inconsistent with the previous •
cefllons to France. This letter was answer- !
ed by Mr. Randolph on the 6th of July
following, who proves that no article was
enumerated in the lilt of contraband, in the
treaty between the United States and Bri
tain, which was not of that description
previous to its formation, and independent
of it, noticed briefly the fubjeft of enemy
good* in neutral bottoms, and demonttrat
cd that the obje&ions of Mr. Adet to the
i
' 23d, 24th and 25th 31'ticles were entirely
f founded on a mifconflriiilion of them. ThJB
m 1 sco aft ruction was so apparent, thatjSn
„ tain has never claimed it nor would the A
merican government ever hsve admitt d it.
The letter of Mr. Randolph closes the fob
jeCt of enemy contraband and of enemy
p operty taken out of neutral bottoms,
with a paragraph to which citizen minister
your attemion is solicited. *' Hitherto
" however (fays he) I have spoken uphn
J " principles of right. Upon any other
1 " principles, and more especially upon
" those of hardship and injury to a friend,
44 it (hall be a topic of the negotiation now
" opening hetween u». With the temper
" which will pervade the whole it ; I can
" not doubt, that foflne modification may
" be devised, and it may be separated from
" the general treity so as not to be delayed
" by it."
It was then apparent that the govern
ment of the United States, a&uated by
that friendlhip which tranfeends the line of
striCt obligation, was willing gratuitously
to release her ally from those flip illations of
a former treaty, which in . the course of e
vents were deemed ta operate unfavarably
to her. This readiness te concede marked
that friendfhip the more strongly, as the
situations in which the two nations found
themfclves could not have been unforefeen
but was the very situation for \yhich the ar-
I ticle provides. The answer of Mr, Ran
, dolph concludes with requesting an oppor
-1 tunity to remove aay remaining doubts,
s should there be filch, by further explana
f tion : 110 remaining doubts were Hated,
1 and therefore as well for its contents the
J letter was believed to be entirely fatisfaflo
j ry to Mr. Adet, and it was hoped that this
government as well as that of America
1 would consider the treaty with Britain as an
■ accommodation desirable by the United
States and not disadvantageous to France.
It is not easy to express the chagrin felt
by the American Government on learning
that in this treaty the United States were
1 supposed to have " knowingly and eyident
iy facrificed their connection with tliisiepub
licand the mod cflential and lead contested
prerogatives of neutrality." With the firm
nsfs of conscious integrity the United States
aver that they have never knowingly facrifi
ced or impaired their connection with this
republic nor the prerogatives of neutrality,
but that they have, according to their best
judgment, invariably fought to prefcrve
both.
The undersigned will endeavour faithfully
to state the impressions of the government
they represent on this interesting fubjeft.
The objections made to this treaty by your
ptedeceiTer in offiee in his Note to Mr. J
Manror, dated 19th of Ventofe 4th year
of the French Republic one and indivisible
(9th March '96) are :
1 ft. That the United States, besides hav- '
ing departed from the principles eftsblifhed
by the armed neutrality have given to Eng
land to the detriment of their firft allies, the J
mod striking mark of an unbounded con- ,
defcenfion, by abandoning the limits given
to contraband by the law of nations, by
their treaties with all other naiions and even
by those of England with the greater part !
of the maritime powers.
2d. That they have consented to extend
-the denomination of contrabrand even to
provisions. Instead of pointing out parti- '
cularly as all treaties do, the cases of the'ef- '
feftive blockade of a place, as alone form- '
ing an exception to the freedom of this ar- '
tide they have tacitly acknowledged the
pretensions raised by England to create
blockades in the eolonies and even in France
by the force of a bare proclamation.
Mr. Adet in his letter to Mr. Pickering, ,
dated 25th|Brumaire sthyear of the French (
Republic one and indivisible (15th Nov.
1796) bas repeated the fame objection, and :
has been pleased also to fuperadd some ob
servations relative to the formation of such
a treaty generally, and the circumstances at
tending its negociation, in terms not to have
been expefted by thefirft and almost [only] .
voluntary friend of the Republic.
These having been the only fpecific oh* r
jedtions officially made 10 the Treaty with t
Britain by the Gevernmentof Franee either
in Paris, or in Philadelphia, are neceflarily
supposed to be -the only objections which '
have occurred.
1 hey have often been difcufTed on the '
part of the United States, but thatMifcuf- (
fion will be renewed, because, although the '
undersigned may be unable to fugged any !
argument not heretofore urged, they cannot
relist thehopethatanattentivereconfideration
of those arguments may give them a success 1
which has not yet attended them J
The firft objection may be supposed to
consist of two parts 4 ift. the abandonment
of the principle that neutral bottoms make
neutral goods, an objeCtian rather insinuated
than exprelTed, and 2dly the addition to the
catalogue of contraband.
1 ft. On the firft part of the cbjeCtion, it
is observable that the statements of the late
isinifter of exterior relations, and of Mr.
Adet, seem to admit, but certainly do not
controvert the position, that previous to the
foimation of the armed neutrality, a belli
gerent power could rightfully take out of
the.bottoms of a neutral the goods of its e
nemy. This position is believed to be un
controvertible, some of the arguments in
support of it having been already detailed, '
and it is deemed unnecessary to repeat or to j
add to them- To this principle of the arm
ed neutrality with a departure from which, 1
the United Statesfeem tobe impliedly charg- '
! ed, the note of M. De la Croix dots not as- 1
I sign any ebligation whatever ; nor does h<?
appear to consider it as having been engraft
ed by that confederation on the law of na
tions. On this point Mr. Adet has not
been more explicit. He seems to have been '
content witn vague insinuations, and not
to have been willing to commit himfelf by
a direCtaverment that in consequence of the
armed neutrality the law of nations on this \
fubjed is changed. Tbe undersigned are ,
uhwlUmv to cembat at length
not pofuively advanced, which they deem
so clearly indefenfible, and will therefore
refer to the brief observation already made
respeCting it.
It may not however be improper here to
notice that in February 1778, when the
treaty between France and the United
States was entered into, the armed neutral
ity had not been formed ; of consequence
the state of things, on which the treaty 0-
perated, was regulated by the law of nations,
as it clearly existed previous to the forma
tion of the armed neutrality. It is supposed
to be admitted, that according to that state
ofthings, neutral bottoms could sfford no pro
tection to the goods of an enemy. Ihe
Population then of the article of that treaty
was
•im3erfttod J at the time, by the con
traCtingjpartitfs, to form an exception to a
general rule; which would retain its obli
gation in all cases where it was not changed
—lf then the contracting parties had design
ed to impose on each other the necessity of
extending this exception to other nations,
so as to convert it into a general rule, they
would have exprcflcd this intention in their
contrafl ; not having exprcfled it they mull
be conlidered a? intending, that th s excep-.
lion (hould form a rule as betweenthemfelves,
while the general rule should govern as with
other nations who had not consented to
change it. \
It is also worthy of observation that when
this treaty was made the United -States
were at war, and France at peace with Bri
tain. J.n this fta»e of things which might
have continued, had not war been declared
or hostilities commenced by England, the
bottoms of France would have protected
from American cruizers, English property,
whilethey would not have protected from Brit
ish cruizers American property. This wasthe
necessary result of that state of things under
which the treaty was formed ; America had
consented to it; and neither could or would
havecomplained.
It is also to be noticed that before the ne
gociation with England had commenced, the
government of the United States had open
ly avowed that opinion on this subjeCt,
which its best judgment dictated. This o
pinion perfectly unconnected with that ne
gotiation was known by all to form and re
gulate the basis of its conduCt. The letters
from Mr. JefFerfon already quoted had Ra
ted to the world the perfect conviction of
the United States, that by the law of nations
a belligerent power, not restrained by par
ticular treaty, might iightfully take out of
the bottoms of a neutral the goods of its
enemy, as well as their determination that
they could not and ought not to oppose the
exercise of this right. The right having
been clearly and unavoidably admitted, and
tttfc determination to acquiesce under its ex
ercise having been avowed openly, Mr. Jay
could only solicit its surrender. Had no
treaty been formed, or had th«t treaty «-
mitted to mention the principle, the right
wonld still have existed, would still have
been acknowledged, and would still have
been exercised. The treaty does not, in
fact or in expression, cede a new privilege,
it regulates an exercise of one before ex
isting and before acknowledged to exist.
The harsh means tjf exercising this right
which are given by the law of nations, are
modified and foltened by the treaty, and
tkis is the only effect which tht article on
this subjeCt has produced : it was the only
motive and it was a fufficient motive for in
troducing it.
(To le continued.)
A few Copies
Of the DISPATCHES from the A
merican Envoys at Paris, communicated to
Congress in the Preftdenfs Message of the
3 d inf. may be had at this Office.
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SILK—
George Rutter y Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will tndure the hardfliips of the
weaiher without injury, and which for neatness
and txatflrtudc of colouring cannot he surpassed in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with dispatch, en the moll moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckeu, &c. accompli(hed in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rimer fledges
himfelf from ao years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hii friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of fpccimcn's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris's Court, back of the Naw
Library.
may 3 d6w
NOTICE,
HAVING observed an aJvertifemcrt of C.
Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of our pro
fcffional abilities, we have to request the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits o 1 each by a companion ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents of eflablifhed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrossing that bufinef* which
their profcflional knowledge ill no wife entitles
them to. Well knowingthat public opinion mud
govern, we flatter ourl'elves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them 9f our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, end shew thene-cef
fity of judging for thtmfclves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to th;
fe}f-flattcrirg advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wishing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. Norrii'Court, or Henry Frailev, GcrmaE
town. §6w may 8.
Robert Field,
MINIATURE PAINTER,
Has removed tp No. 106, Walnut (treet, be
tween Fourth and Fifth flreets.
*• d'w
A Gpod Cook—also a Man
servant who underflands House work. None
but of good chara Tier need apply- 4 Enquire at
this office. 6t may »
TO BE SOLD, BY
John Nixon & Co.
A quantity of very excellent LOGWOOD
JNOW LANDING AT THEIR
may 10 jawtf .
j Furniflied Chambers —loLet.
| Gentlemen, Members of Congress and
-L others, wiihing to engage for the next feflion
of Congref, Chambers, fnrnifted in a modern
. style, and in a very pleasant and central part of
the city, may hear of them by applying at the
j office of this Gazette. eerw may 10.
head ache"
PERSONS afflifled. with the Head Ache, pfo
cesdiag from whatever cause, will find i«-
(l ant relief in the application of
Dr, Church's Anodyne Efleilce,
In Rheumatic, Nervous and Billious Head Aches,
it has not its equal. It not only alleviates that
tormenting pain, but remove, it almost inftantane
oufiy. The Head Ache occasioned by hard drink
ing, and any local pains in any other part of the;
body or extremities, are by its application effectu
ally removed.
CASES OF CURE.
Te Dr. Church.
Dear Sir,
I have been fubjeil to a very severe Head Ache
for several years, which sometimes ufedto affliiS: i
me to such a,violent degree, as to disable me from
attending my duty as Draftfman of the Tower,
for several days together. I'have had the advice
of several qr. incnt Physicians in this c and m
Wales, and have tried several other remedies re
commended to me without effeA. Being one day
extremely indisposed with the Head Ache as usual,
I sent for you, when you recommended your Ano
dyne Essence to me, which 1 applied, and which
removed the pain, as soon as I applied it.—l fre
quently repeated the ufc of it, and am happy to:
inform you, I have had no return of it.
I am, Dear Sir,
Your obedient Servanr,
JOHN BARNES.
Drawing Room, Touter of London, Mayty, 1795*
Front the Alornirig Advcrtifer, March 26 1795«
Another gentleman in his Majdly's fervicc in :
the Tower of London, has been extremely afflift
ed with the Head Ache lor some years, and fpjne- !
times tofo violenta degree, as to preventhjru from .
attending the duties of his office ; atons of which
times, he sent for some of Dr. Churth's An odyne
i-fftnee. which he applied, and which removed the
pain inllantaneoufly ; and he is happy in affirming,
that he has had no return of th* pain lince.
The above gentleman, whole name and address
may be known at the place of sale, will teflify the
above, to any candid enquirer.
Church's ANODYNE ESSENCE, is prepared
and fold (only) by the Inventor and Proprietor, *
OR. JAMES CHURCH, :
At his Medicine Store, No. i, South Third street,
Philadelphia.
WHERE MAY .ALSO BE HAS, •'>
Cburcb'i Cough Drops, a medicine unequalled by
any other in the wofld, for the cure of Coughs^
Asthmas aadConfumptions.
Atfo, his Cordial Rejtorative Balsam, for Nervous
Disorders, Inward Wcakneffes, Debilitated Cottfti
tutions, and Disorders incident to Young Girls and
Women at certain periods of life ; celebrated Eyt
Sahc, for all diseases of the Eyes ; Vegetable Lotion,
for the cure-os Freckles,. Sunburns, Pimples, and
all Eruptions of the Face and Skin, Shingles, and
the Prickly Heat ; Valatile Tinflurc, an immediate
cure for that excrutiating pain the Tooth Ache ;
Scotch Ointment, for the cure of the Itch, in four
hours, with' ut a particle of mercury, or any per
nicious ingredients; and Antifpafmcdic Elixir, for
.the cure-os all kinds of Fits..
may 10. aaw^w
Military Colours.
yit c;
Portrait and Ornqmentattainting Rooms t
No. jo, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
opgollte the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manger peculiar to
himfelt) 'urable, not to"be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beau'cy of
colouring, neatness and malterly execution, has
not been equalled by Goorge'Rutter and Co.
.. FLAGS and DRUMS
Furniflied with all possible di'fpatch, on themoft
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck*
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (net that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.)
but in- a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist master of bis profeffion.
Mr. Gbiucii, from a number 6f year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeffional talents, punfluality, and reason
able demands, will ftieet tha entire approbati«n of
those gentlemen who willpltafe at his Pain
ting Rooms. J6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a malterly manner, will no
doubt feel themfelvee obliged for the kind can ion
g!veu by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf
flatteriiig advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the fupetiority lies, —save the footl
ing of good silks by George Rtitter's pencil— .nd I
dilcover the requisites for the contracting talents
ot Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may 10.
For Sale, ~~
The cargo of the brig American ftornLagiiira,
CONSISTI NG OF
Ca •"accas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. iia, South F»urth Street.
a P»-'l 13 j
Forty Dollars Reward.
• 1
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro »
Man, named Glafgovu, perhaps he may pafe
by the name of Ghfgoin Lee, or may change hie
name ; he is a'lout thirty one years of age, nearly
fix feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un
derlie, a (mail part being bitten out between the
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe ort
the right fide),-his left hand has be,n very for*;,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
some time pall : he is a fiout, strong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he *
went away in company with a negro woman of
Mr. Joshua Lingoe, of this county. It is luppofed
they are gone into Delaware State. Any pcrfon
that fccures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfci iber shall get him again, (hall receive the
above reward. LSME BAYLY.
State of Maryland, "J
Somerset County, april to. J may 4_^ w
CJrals Lots to let. ~~
contiguous Lots of Ground, CMifain- I
X tng lometliing more than an acre, fituned in
Carpenter street, between Third and Fourthftrect
Southwark ; to rent separately or together, for I
the year or longer. 1 hey are in good order and I I
generally produced hay for fifteen years past.
Upon one lot is a frame dwelling house, a garden,
well of water, and hay stables. For further in- J 1
lormattor, enquire at No. 14, North Third street.
a f ,fl *5- ■ eo<iw : IwJV 1 I._!—t
%f)t (25a$ette*
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY NEVENING, May io.
On Tuefdiy in the House of Representatives
of the United States, the report on the fubje<!\
of alien« was taken np, and after agreeing to add
the following'words to the third resolution, viz.
II betwixt which and theVnited States tkerejball
cxifl a Jiate of diclartd war,*' it was agreed t»,
and referred to the fele£l committee to report a
bill accordingly, she houCe then resolved itfelf
into a committee of tlje whole on the report of a
fele£l committee on the bill from the Senate to
authorize the President of the United Stites to
rtife a provisional army. Thi> committee re
commend the following amendments, viz. The
numberof men to b« raised is proposed to be re
duced from twenty to ten thousand, aud instead
of giving the President power to r»ife the army,
"whenever he (hall judge the public fafety re
quires the measure," that they (hall be raised
" in the event of a declaration of war against
the United States, or of adlual invasion of their
territory by a foreign power, or of imminent
danger of such invasion, discovered in his opin
ion to exist." They also. recommend five addi
tional feflions to the bill ; the firft for authoriz
ing the President, from time to time, as he (hall
think it neceflary, to call out in rotation, such
portions of the militia now held in reqnifition,
not exceeding *.0,000 men, as he (hall think pro
per, to be trained and disciplined, and to be
< onfidered as in aflual service, for a term not ex
ceeding ; the fteond makes it lawful for
the Prelident, on the request of any r»gular
corps of volunteers disposed toinform themselves
in the use of artillery, to fufter to be loaned to
them certain field artillery pieces »f the United
State* ; the third, authorizes the Prefident,when
any portion of the militia or volunteer corps are
called into service to loan to such as are deficient
of them, field artillery, arms and accoutrements,
from the arfrnals of the United States ; the
fourth, authorizes the President to purchase a
quantity of caps, swords or sabres, and piftolc
with holsters, not exceeding what may be fuffi
cient for 4000 cavalry, to be depofitcd in such
parts of the United States as he tt.all deem molt
convenient, which may be loaned as aforesaid j
and the fifth provides that the private soldiers en
listed in the service of the United States ftiall be
exemptad during their term of service from all
personal arrests for debt. The eonfideration of
these amendments was precluded by a motion
made by Mr. GalWtin to strike out the firft fec
tionof the bill, with the view of destroying the
bill from the Senate, in order to have the above
proviflons enafled in a separate bill. The mo
tion occasioned a long debate. About three
o'clock, a motion was made for the committee
to rife ; but Mr. N. Snn.ih wi(hing the qtfeftion
to be taken, the motion for riling was negatived,
the debate continued till after four, when the
committee rose, without taking the question,
and the house adjourned till Thursday.
Yesterday being tbe day appointed for
the national faft, the fame was observed in
this city with a decency and folcranity n«-
ver before exhibited on a similar occasion.
The churches were crouded, and business
ftifpended. The ftorei and (hops were al
most universally (hut—and to the honor of
the French citizens, it was remarked, that
not one of those occupied by them was o
pened—After the solemnities of the day
■were ended, to wards evening, a numberof per
fonsfaidtobc butchers' boys, made rtieir ap
pearance at the date house garden with
French cockades in their hats—Some dis
turbance enfned, but several of them being
taken up and committed to jail—order was
restored, and tranquility reigned through
the night.
The young men of Baltimore were to
meet If 1 evening, after divine service, for
the purposes that fimilac. meetings have been
held in this city and New-York.
" Onefpirit animates the -whole."
From the Columbian Centinel.
The St. Albans of 64 guns, and the
Endymion Frigate compote the firft convoy
for the American trade, and are to proceed
to New-York.
His excellency John Adams has, we
learn, been coidially received at the court
of Berlin.
Providence, April24th, 1798.
Address from the students of Rhode-lfl
and college, to the President of the.
United States.
Sir,
Your late communication to congress,
from our Envoys to the French Republic,
excites in our breads tfye livelieflt solici
tude, for the welfare of our country.
We regret that your efforts amicably to
accommodate the difficulties, in which
we are at present involved, have not been
attended with that success which a confi
dence in your administration induced us
to expeft. Wish indignation we
the humiliating conditions demanded of
us, by France, and trust they will never
be complied with, while a drop of the
American blood remains unshed.
During our late glorious struggle, for
independence, this feat of literature bore
a distinguished part, in the common ca
lamities of our country. Her moulder
ing walls even now evince the cauf« in
which (he fuffered. Sufficiently have
we, already, experienced the cviJs of
war ; —fufficiently ftrongarethc induce
ments, which lead us to desire peace ; yet
to us nothing ean be more humiliating
than to facrifice our liberties, to avert
the former, or, preserve the latter. Soon
er will we confederate with the great mass
of our citizens, in the public cause, ral
ly around the standard of liberty, refol
icdito live free, or, perish by one noble
effort, in the cause of violated liberty. j
At a period, when such principles are
avowed as threaten deftruftion to liberty, I
religion and the repose of all nations, j
when the American eha rafter is debased
and degraded, by fslfe ane calumnious
insinuations ; we hope we {hall not be
considered as deviating from propriety,
by expressing our unfeigned approbation
of your public conduft, and our fixed
determination never to survive our na
tional independence.
Accept, fir, the most ardent desires
of the students of this seminary, for the
prosperity of the United States and their
united prayers for your health and hap- ,
pinefs. ■
Conrade. Webb, Committee 1
Andrew Dexter,jun. | oil behalf of
Lucius Cary, ' 1 the students
James Talmadge,jr. of Rhode-
Jamcs Thompson, Island Col-
Lcmuel Le Baron, jr. J lege.
The foregoing address, having been
transmitted by the mail, and presented to ,
the Prelident of the United States, on be
half of the students of Rhode-lfland gollege
at their request, by Mr. Foster, a member
of the Natioual Senate, from' the (late, of
Rhode-lfland, the President, on Saturday !
last, was pleased to return the following
ANSWER:
To the Students of Rhode-lfland Col
lege.
Gentlemen,
This address, following so soon after
those demonstrations of confidence, re
; fpeft and affection, which I received
from you, my amiable young friends,
at your university, the last year, has ten
derly affefted my sensibility.
The solicitude you manifeft for the
welfare of your country, well becomes
you, who have long to live, and as I
hope, and believe have illustrious parts
to aft, in the naval, military, civil and
religious institutions of society.
While I share, in your regrets for the
ill-success of my efforts to accommodate
difficulties, my heart sympathises in your
generous indignation, at the unworthy
returns we have received, and with you,
I trust, that no difgraceful demands will
ever be complied with.
America in general, and your part of
it in particular though ever averse to war,
have been familiar with.it, be
cause from the firft plantation of the
country, they never could avoid it, for
any long course of years.
The fifteen years of peace, which
have been enjoyed, fincethe year 1782,
is the longest period of tranquility, per
haps which we have ever enjoyod. The
longer the peace, the greater aversion of
the citizens to war, as many republi
cans of Europe have fatally experienced ;
in this eonfideration, you may perhaps
find some consolation, if war cannot be
avoided without a facrifice of honor.
Your unfeigned approbation of my
public conduft is as honorable to me, as
your fixed determination, never to sur
vive your national independence is glori
ous to yourselves.
In return for your kind wishes, I fin'
cerely pray that you and your univerilty,
may flourifh forever in the happy fruits of
liberty, literature, science, morals and
religion.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May sth,5 th, 1798.
FOREIGN ARTICLES.
LONDON, March 16.
By our Falmouth Ictterr we have the fa
tisfa&ien of learning, that the squadron un
der the command of fir John B. Warren,
have fallen in with a convoy boqnd from
Bordeanx to Bred, and, according to the re
port brought by one of the prizes arrived at
Falmouth, had taken several fail and the
frigate that convoyed them.
Yesterday morning at eight o'clock, two i
of his majesty's messengers, attended by two ,
police officers, went to the house of Mr.
Evans, in Plough court, Fetter lane, and ap- '
prehended Benjamin Binns the brother of .
John Binns now confißed in the tower, and I
Alexander Galloway, formerly secretary to
the correfpending society.—They were ,
taken in bed, the officers having burst open
the door ofthe apartment in which they dept. s
Binns, whofepapers were like wife seized, had '
only arrivedin town fotv daysfince from Ire- 1
land, where he received information of the ?
officers being in search of him, in less than „
48 hours after his brother and the other pri
soners were committed to the tower.
Galloway had a lodging at Pimlico, but
having spent the evening with Binns, in j
company with Mrs. Evans,, he agreed to
(lay the night, not being apprehensive the
officers would agaih visit Mr. Evans's house C
At nine o'clock in the evening the mem- v
btrs ofthe council met at the duke 5
of Portland's office, when Mr. Evans was
brought up, in order to be admitted to bail
but the two persons who attended for the
p'irpoff of entering into a recognizance for
his appearance, not being approved of, he
was remanded in to custody.
The council then proceeded to the exami- i r
nation of Brans and Galloway ; the former M
wa3 at eleven o'clock. Gailoway s '
was next interrogated by the eouocil, and *
he was afterwards comm/tted te> custody of
Mr Hooper, one of the king's tneflengeis, A
for further examination.
j j We understand that the plan adopted for
j the trial of priforers now acctifvd of treafin
is as follows : A fpeeial coramiflion. ompo
s fed of Mr. juitice Buller,, and Mr jnftiee
- Heath Mr. justice Laurence, will he open
, ed at Maidftone, about the 26th instant. for
[ the purpose of finding the indiftments, and
I arranging the prisoners. The commiflion will
then be adjourned for the time neceflary to
give the accused copies of their indi&ments
fee. and the triah may be expected to come
. ®n about she 6th or 7th of April.
It ts remarkable that the insult offered to
the Spanish monarch, by citiien TrugHet.
the French miniiler at Madrid, is precisely
• j the fame as that of which the Spinifh am
; baiTador at "-his court complained so heavily,
j when wailing 011 lord Grenville one morning
. he found his lordship preparing to take a
morning ride.
RESURRECTION MEN.
Yesterday a numerous crowd assembled
, in Tottenham Court Road opposite the Bu.
rying Ground, from which so many bodie3
| have been itolen. The sexton's haufe had
been previcufly locked up, and a notice po
, lied on the door, that he and the grave-dig
gers were discharged and gone away.—Thii
had the desired effe£t of appealing the peo-
pie, who were probably rtiet for the purpose
of facrificing these two fufpefted persons to
! their fury ; and the day passed without any
disturbance.
Of the nine persons firft discovered in five
sacks, one was a woman who had died of a
dropsy, f 0 weighty, and the sack in whicj>
the body was contained so rotten, that it is
impofiible it could have been thrown over
| the wall without bursting, from whence it
is fufpefted it was conveyed through the
: doorby fomeperfon in pofTefiitn of the keys,
j Exclusive of these, the number milling on
Wednesday night wa-; 29, which added to
two that have been miffed in ytfterday's
starch by the.laborers, who did not leave off
their search until late in the evening, make
the whole number taken away amount to
forty. This day the search was be renewed
again, and we tinderftand the hlfide of the
tabernacle is to undergo a minute inveftiga
tion. From the enquiry that has already ta
ken place,, it appears this pra&ice has been
of many years standing .-bodies interred five
years ago are miffing, and therefore it is im
pofiible to ascertain how many have been
itolen. The majority of the coffins plun
dered belonged to children and pet*fons not
full grown, and many conjefturesare former
of the uses to which they were applied. The
sexton supported his family very genteelly,
and, exclusive of his house in town, had a
place in she country, without any known
means, except tleemolument of his lituation,
There were lights placed in the churchy
yard, and a watch flationed there all last
night.
Part of the keepers of . St. James's the
Green and Hyde Parks, yesterday fubferi
bed at the bank 241. 10s. for the defence of
ther country.
The Two Friends, Morell, from Ham
bro* to Virginia ; the Camilla, an English
vessel; the Sally,. American vessel; Flo
de Mondego, Dourado, from Barbarjr to
Lisbon ; N. S. .de Rofario, from ditto to
ditto : and the Patriot, from Barcelona to
Hambro' have been taken, retaken and car
ried into Lisbon.
FALMOUTH, March 13,
Arrived La Viftorie, Chaffe Maree, from
Bourdeaux for Brest, sent in by the Argo
Lugger. She is part of a fleet ; and it is
reported that .Sir J. B. Warren's squadron
have taken ten fail more of them, and de
stroyed the frigate which convoyed them.
PORTSMOUTH, March 15.
This morning arrived his majefly's ship
Vanguard from the Downs, with the Wal
pole and Good Hope, outward'bound East-
India (hips under her convoy. The former
brought up at Spithead, the latter at the
Mothertank.
The outward bound (hips American and
English, destined for the United States, un
der convoy of the St Alban's, of 64 guns,
yesterday dropped dowu to St. Helen's
where they are detained by contrary winds;
as is the Venus frigate and outward-bound
Newfoundland (hips.
The Triumph, of 74 guns, captain Effing
to», this day went out of the harbor, com
pletely r«-fitted.
VOLUNTEER CORPS.
The Youth of North and South Mul
berry Wards, who are desirous of form
ing themselves into a Uniform Volun
teer Corps are requested to meet on Fri
day evening, 1 ith inft. at the House of
J. Hardy, Swan Tavern, North Third
Street. May 8.
A. Country beat.
TO BE LET for the furamer f.afon or by the
year,, the greater part of a large House, jn
a high, healthy situation, above the eight mile
(lone, on the Germantown-road (occupied only by
a newly married couple)—with llabl'ing and con
venience for keeping a carriage.' For further par
ticulars, enquire ol Caspar W. Haines, in G«r
mantown, or the fulifcriber, on the premif«.
HEZEKIAH HUNTSMAN,
may I. 2aw3w
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Bourdeaux,
AND POR'SALB BY TBI SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in calks
White wine in half calks
Sweet oil of a superior quality in boxes and balkets
Lunelle
Saaterne f . .
Macarty, and ( Wines m Cafe,.
Medoc J
Thtmas Murgatreyd,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
WHO MAS, SN HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes Tnth'ed
Iri(h market 7 - r > to
Medos, and Sau'erne j ,nes in ca es ' j drawback
Sherry wine in pipesand quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bags
fwo trunks of Umbrellas, and
A!*put 40oobufhels Liverpool Salt*
ir.arch 19 mw&ftf
, j For the Gazette of the United States.
: NEW SONG. ,
R uf<? Sons r brave Forefathers, their fpirirs hlufh
wirW foame,.
DiOu'HM they Irown upon us—for weforget thcij
Fame.
| G.afp, giafp your watlike weapons, equip for arm'd
( debate,
Arouse, arouse, aroule, arouse, acd rally round the
; State.
That feat of Commerce, Carthage, by oarth's proud
miltrrls Rome
, force or fraud, 01 faftiow received her dreadful
doom, "
Of fa6l»o:), fraud, or violence, employ'd by furious
Gaul,
Beware, beware, beware, beware, or we like Car
thage fall.
Domellic dire d ffentionsengender'd fell debate,
Aad Carthaginians tided to lubjugatethe ftste ;
But wafer *e Ame»icans unite in heart and hand,
Unite* uuite, unite, unite to guard our threaten' 4 t?nd
Rich Venice —deck'd in beauty—her ft Hen enfwns
I ' turl'd,
Submitting all to Frenchmen is blotted from the world;
But ere we bend to Foreigners ol any* halUie Huie,
We'll try the arms, the auns, the armi, our fathet's
try'd bc^fe.
They biought fair Freedom hither, soon Independence
fmil'dj
New fcen«s of social pleasure frefh bloffom'd in the
w >ld. h
The precious fruits of patriot toil, no po .ver on earth
fhoulci touch
Our rights, our riglits, our rights, our rights, had
ever mortals iuch ?
Rouse foas of brave" forefathers, their fptrits blufb
with shame,
Diftuib'd they frown upon us—fjr we forget their
fame,
Giafp, grasp your warlike weapons, equip for arna'd
deba.e,
Arouse, arouse, arouse, arouse, and rally round the
Aate.
Livea there another people t how proud so e'er their
source,
The a&s of whofeforefatheis difplav a brighter course
Who tcught, prevailed, gave Liberty secured by laws
moU juli—
Resist, refitk, resist the race that bids us bite thedufl.
In tain pur prede. effors haveerofs'd the western waves,
In vain they bled for freedom.if we muli now be Haves.
If parceled out like Polanders to baibarous force a
prey—
We'll die, we'll die, we'll die, we'll die, but never
> biook the day.
Cheer high Mount yernon's Hero, our strength in
war' 6 alarms,
Led forth by such Commander's, again we'll rife in
arms.
The foul of mighty Washington with unquench'd
glory high,
A& aii* it glows, oppose, oppose, live free, or bravely
die !
Loud cheer the steady Statefmao, Chief Ruler of our
choice, f
In him ourfclveswe houour— (hout withunittd voice
Health to firir.,virtuous 4DAMS, like him, disdain
to yield
Our rights, our rights, our rights, our rights at sea or
in the field.
Rouse sons of brave forefathers, their fpirita blufti j
with lhame,
Difturb'd tney frown upon us for we forget their fame, !
G ra *P> your warlike weapons equip for arm'd
debate
Arouse, arouse, arouse, arouse and rally round the
State.
CONGR £ S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, April 27.
ON motion of Mr. W. C. Claiborne,
the house went into a committee o{the whole
on the bil) directing the payment of a detach
ment of Militia for lervices performed in the
year 1794, under the command of Major Ge
neral Ore. The bill was reported without a
mendment, and ordered to be engrofled for
a thirc! reading to-morrow.
A bill frain the Senate for the relief of the
legal representatives of Samuel Lapfley de
ceased, was twice read and referred to the
committee of claims.
Mr. Harper laid, he wilhed to lay a re
solution upon the table on a (übjeft which
every day appeared more striking and impro
per. He alluded to a very alarming aban
donment of duty by the members of this
house. He hoped this, charge would not be
confide'red as too harsh against nielnbers who
were now leaving the public burinefs at this
important crisis, rfhen very cyriliderable ar
rangements remain to be made, particularly
on the fubjeit of Finance. He need not in
form the house that there was now little mere
than a'quorum of members present ; and if
thi present practice continued longer, the
public business would be to do, and there
would be no Congress to do it. hi order to
put a (lop to this evil, he proposed the fol
lowing resolution :
" Refolded that no member of this house, du.
ring the remainder of the feJpM, Jhall bane leave
oj übfence, except in cafe of sickness."
Ordered to lie Upon the tablf.
The bill making appropriations for the sup
port of the Military Eftabliftiment for the
year 1798, was read the third time; when
Mr. Gallatin moved a recommittal of the
bill, in order to corrert a mistake which had
arilen from the War Deparrment having made
a fubtrattion twice over, which was carried.
The house went into a committee on the sub
ject ; the error was corrected, and the bill
was re-engrofled, and pafTed.
On motion of Mr. Livingston, there
port of the committee of commerce and ma
nufactures on the petition, of the merchants
and wharfholders refpetfing
the priviledge of weighing goods on their
wharves, which they were deprived of by a
late law of the United States. The report
was unfavourable, and after some opposition
by Mr. Pinckney, it was concurred in.
The bill for newly organizing the Militia
being the order of the day,
Mr. Otis again moved to discharge the
committee of the whole from the further con
sideration of this bill, which was negatived,
there being only 21 votes for it. '
Mr. Rutledge then moved to poflpone
the conlideration of this bill- until Monday
week, 111 order to give time for a decision up
on the bill authorizing a Provisional Army.
This motion was negatived, there being only
20 vates for it.
The house then resolved itfefl into a com
! mitteee of the whole on the Militia bill, and
made some further progress therein. Hie
committee rose and had leave to fit again.
Mr. B'aldwin, fram the committee ap
pointed to enquire into the authenticity of a
letter of General Clarke's ot Georgia, which
appeatsin the documents relative to the con
spiracy of William Blount, intimating that an
attempt had bee»i made to engage General
Clark in favour of the Britilh in an attack a
gainst the French and Spaniards, reported,
certain answers to interrogatories which had
been put to General Clark, in which he ac
knowledges the letter to be his, and liases
that a person of the name of William Car- j
rick, who called himfelf a Britilh captain, j
offered hirv a lalary ef »o ; oo*l. from the Bri- 1
«. ■? .* : s n 9
tiYh Government as a fakiry, if he.wciifd cti
gage in the Br;tifh service agaihjtihe- i'uv.rh
and Spaniards ; aud that alter Tie l»arfYtflifcd
the propofit, he alkedllim if ar.jr Aim would
induct to join iii the fervice-propofc',
wh.rh being arifwered in the nVgniyr, Hie
said Ciii l rick rxtorted from him a' (lro.nilc:
that he would not difcKif'e thii propofalJ i'lie
general states that he kntiws of no olher pro
posal made~to airy dttiei' pe/fon. This report
was ordered to be printed'.
Mr. S. Smith rep >rted a bill for continu
ing in force the firlt firttion of an aii refpecl
ing Revenue Cutters, which yras committed
tor Monday.
Ihe Senate, by melfage, informed the
honfe that they perfitted in tlieir amendments
to the bill refpeeting the compensation of
clerks ; and that they had pa/Ted a bill to au
thorize the President to pmchafe or build a
number-os small veflels, to be employed as
Gallics, or other«'ife.
MKtA. Foster atked ind cbMined leave
<n abf-nce (though not withbnr apportion)
for l)is coHeague Mr, Oprague, iJr tne
matador of the feflion.
The house went again into a committee'of
the whole on the bill for > wly organizing,
arming and disciplining riie Militia of the Ig -
nited States j when after confideiabie dilcuf.
fion,
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) moved the
committee to rife, in ordei that it might be
difchargtd from a farther consideration of
this bill, as there appeared so evident a dif
pofltion again ft going into an .amelioration of
the militia system at prelent; and however
salutary the proposed regulations might be
ill a state of tranquility, he did not think it
\vould be proper, under the present circum
stances oft the country to derange the w hole
militia system to so great a degrefe, as woUld
be occasioned by a change of officers, and of
'men from one company to another. Until '
the present ftat»s of things, therefore, had
either blown over or exhausted itfelf, he
thought it would be beCrto fuffer the the mi
litia to remain on its present footing.
The committee role accordingly, was dis
charged, and the bill was re-committed.
Adjourned till Monday.
BALTIMORE, May 4.
French Policy.
The Direftory have fait a finall force to St. De
rafr.go, under Hedouville, who prrmifct, at Santho
nai did, honour and justice in all future encash
ments ; bat not a word is said aboutformtr ones. It
; is fcafy to fee in this the fear of the Birc&ory, left
they Ihould lose what they as yet possess of the above
island, for they are well aware, ifpreehjded by the
hostile conduA of France, from the supplies and
trade of this country, they will dclare themfclvc*
frei and independent, and trade with whom they
please—That they may speedily do this is the fu,-
cere wilh of every American.
' ~~: —: " - ' ■" ■ - -
United States, [ _
Pennfjlvania DiJlr'iS. J
INpurfuance of a writ to me direfted from the
Honorable Richard Peters, Esq. Judge of the
Diftriil Court of the United States, in and for
the Pennsylvania Diflrid, will be exposed to pub
lic sale at the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe in the City
of.Philadelphia on Wednesday the 16th May in
stant.at II o'clock at nooß,
The Brig online called the
CHARLOTT E,
With all and Angular her tackle
apparel and furniture, as they now are—.The said
Brigantine having been condemned to pay the ma
riners wajres &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marlhall's Office, 7
May 10,'1798. J
JNh B. Tha inventory may he seen at |ny office.
Military AcademV.
THE Public are tnoft refpea fully informed*
that a Military Academy *s opened in the
Northern Liberties in the haufe formerly belong
ing t6 John Mailers, esq. between the German-
To*n and Frankfort roads, North Second
ly rect continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 60th Britifti regiment of Foot and
afliftant Engineer to the Army ailing in the
Weft-Indies.
Where gentlemen will be tauj ht the manual
Exetcife and midc completely acquainted with
all the duties of officers, non-commiflioned of
ficers and private soldiers in camp, garrison and
Quarters ; the forms of regimental and field re
turns, detachments, rollers &c. &c a lf,> the
art of drawing plans, fetfions and geometrical
elevations, the elements of tactics, gusnery and
fortification.—A fubfeription lift is left at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
the outlines of the propofid regulations may be
seen. The fitnation is extremely well adapted
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are .
set apart for the purpose,'
N. B. Gentlemen fram the Conntry boarded
in thehouft if required.-
mi y Ia diwiawim
Notice is hereby Given,
HTH AT application has been made .it the Bank of
X the United States, for the renewal of the fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft bv the
capture ot the 3rm(h Packet, Countess e f Ldcef
ter—viz.
No.37C2,containings(hares'} Iflued to Henry Ca
3'°3 $ do. j zenove Nephew&Co
731 * do. iffugj to Edwrrdt
- * qq snd Co.
/ 5 do. iflued (in iieu of
6509 to 6513) to Samuel and' Henry Haddington.
i- 'j . . . 4 do. issued to Phyn.El
lice and Inglis. '
AU persons concerned are therefore called upon
iff,, H 01 w, W ? eW (hould no J, be
ilfucd agreeably to the said application.
. eo6w
Imported in the ship Phoenix,
Richard Grice, maftw, from 4 niflerdam,
A qnantity of Lintfeed Oil, and
Two cases low priced Linen Checks
For sale hy
april - George Pennoti.^
B R A ND r. ~
The Cargo of the Danifli Brig Concord,
FftnM CETT^,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's Qre.t
wharf.
100 pipes 4th proof ") <O, . ,
160 do id do. s t>raady
Proyence white Win e , in pipe.
Hazlcnuts and Filberts, ir. f cks
A few Almonds, Raisins, &c.
For Sale by
Peter Blight.
WHO Also orriß s r OR sal*.
200,000 lbs. Java Cofi'ee, in sacks
Old Batavii Arrack, in pipes
Macc and Cloves, in boics
1 »o hhds. Jamaica Sugar
SO do. do. Rura
Port Wine, in pipes, KM,. afld qr . Cift .i
, M f^rS doa rar,icuiir ' ve: r
daweoti/nWILL Bi SOLD, i
Oil Thurftt.y ntxt at 7 o'clock in the Evening !
at the Menlianu Coffce-Houfe.
H A R RIO 7.
Now lying it MefTrs. Willing £3* Frank's
Wharr bu.then 7j tons, three yeart oldi weU
found and olculat<-d for a Coaster.
CONNELLY, hf Co. Auctioneers.
may 8 dt».
For Sale, or Charter.
TH *■ SHIP
jjmtt liberty
LAYING at Viae Street Wharl—
' 'jih Affile" burthen per register two hundred
• -"■■j-jiLjSCiK&SandeigWty-two cons. This vefltl
has been about eighteen months off the Hocks, and
lately returned from 1 toyage to HolUnd. She is
a prime faili-r, can be armed with tefs disadvantage
to her (lowage than any vessel in thisport aqd tanf\
be fja at a moderate expesce. Apply ti ■ v'
.. __ nxrelx, . .
Landenborger ! J WhSrY.
m *y J iiw
JUSf ARRIVED,
In the brigGayofo.capt. Bingham, from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an ex eel lent quality
A few groc« Porter Bottle*, new
And twenty cufks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
jthu HoU'tngJwortb & Co.
No. ai, Little Water flrtet, Sonth. 1
april to. 5
FOR SALE.
Ii; i""™"}Havannah Sugar '
100 Hides
Will he landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig A&ive, Will
iam Williams, master.
faid Brigforfale,
And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jfeiu Hollingjtiiorth & Co.
march .50. §
"For Hamburgh, .
THE SHIP
fafjjszNr Dominick Terry,
J°hn Fleming, Master,
great partofher cargo en
gag«d.—For Freight apply to
JeJjc 6* Robert Wain.
February »6 f,
" FOR 6AL&: v A
A House and 12 elegant Building Lots in German- A:
Jo town.
ON Monday the 14th instant at 30'cloek P. M.
will be fold by public iuilion on the prsnu- Ai
fc " | '
- The firft House in the village of Qermantown 1
fltuated on the right hand fideof the Road
leading ffcm Philadelphia'. Also IJ building lots Ai
adjoining the fame, each cojjtaifiipg JO iect on
front on the Ger'mantown road, ind extending
£eo feet on depth.
N. B. A plan of the above lots maybe seen pre
vious to the day of sale by applying to
FOOTMAN & Go. Auctioneers
May 7. Ar
VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front-Jlreet.
HAVE FOR SALt£j ,
jeHogfheads Virginia Tobacco,of Fredcrickf- ,
bUr& ; nd Falmouth Infpcflions. 0
jo Hogsheads ditto of Richmond infpc&ion. R"
may 8. eod6t >a
Horses on Sale. 'I
ma
Several valuable Horses to be Sold, mc
Wiich are perfedHv well broke for either La- . r
dies or Gentlemen ; trills of them are allowed. ta "
Apply to T. SWANN or '
»t his Riding School Markelfftrfcet, which is
open every day for the pnrpofeof teaching the
art of Horftmanfhip, and the breaking and train- ,
ing of Horses. j
may 4. *lt
Alex. J 1 Miller iff 'James Davis, >»
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of Jj
Alexander J. Miller & Co. lifhi
TNFORM their friends in town and country, that
JL tht y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store, P ow
at. No. 64, South front Srreet, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kceepmg a general as- m
foitment of India, German, Irijh, French and Bri~
tijb Mannfa<fturesfcr sale, oji advantageous ternic
for cash orafhort credit. To
February 19 §tf
~ JUST RECEIVED, n
- cont
FROM FORT'AU-PKINCI,
And jpR SALE, by tbt SUBSCRICERS, P
110 hhd6. GofFce I and
46 tierces do. ce "
100 barrels do. w h e
too bags do be n
no hogfheadsof Muscovado Sugar "
80 barrels of do. a re {
40 hoglheads of Molasses — w
4 bales of Cottpn be tl
1 hogfceads of Cocoa d cr<
WILLINGS & FRANCIS. mc °.
Pcnn-ftreet. , .
•"march t». § j'^ r
FOR SALE, at th
BV THI SUBSCRIBIRS, No. 11, Penn-ftreet, and
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, ,crib
John Green', conhmander.from Bengal,
CvtHJlingnf '
Baftas, of various qualities and prices, h i
Coflaet Pvnjum. Cloths ficier
Sanaht Guzzeydo. of cc
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blae Cloth Tanjibs of a
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls print
Mamoodys Checks quarj
Maharagonges Patna Hkfs. P r ®P
Ginghams Mainnul do.
Guz;enas Bandannoes 1,1 'J? 1
Qurrahs Siflerfily ' to
Piniafcoes Chopjta Komals
Salgatehys Sooty, do. op
Gillie Romalt Perfunt of various col.
Meek Pulicats | "i?
»oo tons SUGAR pu
9«,c001b. PEPPER.
Willings Iff Francis.
The Piece Goods \ \
Of the GiOgtJ" are now open t<J sale at that LX
■commodious store the north weft corner of blinjji
Market and Fourth-flreets. l'-n«u
Also—A few llales of Madrafi IlWs. ofele
gant patteciis and be ft colour*.
February 8. dtf *r'
o V
I TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
mg ! M/tRCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN purfuanee of the AiS of Cingrrfs paflcd on the lixth day of July one thousand seven hundredand
nineiy-feven, e-titled '• An AiS hying duties on Stamped Velium, Parchment and Paper", and the
A'sl parted oil the fiiieenth day ot Oeeiniber, one thoufandfeven hundred and n.<iety-fe»eii, entitled
" An A a to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed Dy the Act enti
tied " An AJt hying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Psper", that from and after rhe
reM ! firft day of July ensuing, the fer.-ralStamped Duties hsreafter enumerated, will be levied a:id eollec-'
ted throughout t.'.c United States.
For every Ikin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or Ihect' or piece of Paper, upon which lhall be
written or printed a.iv or either of the instruments er wrUingslollowing—to wit:
Any Certific*te of Naturalization, .....
Any Licence to pracfticejor Certificate of the admilTion,enrolment er regiftryof
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proflor, in any Court of the
t_ United States, ... . . io
red Provided, that a Certifies te in any one of the Courts of the United States
ffel for one of the said Officer, (hall so far »s relates to the payment of the
ind doty aferefaid, be a fuficient admitlion in all the Courts of the .United
sis States, for each and every of the said offices.
ige Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the Teal or authority of the United States
ia/1 (except £or lands granted for military ser vice*) - 4
Afty exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
• frept-for lands granted for military services) ... 2
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - 1
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftbv any Will or g
ther testamentary jnftrument.or for any share or part cifa perfor.al estate di
nj vided by force ofany statute of diftrfbuti»ns, other tlian to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafetl, the amount whereoffhall l)e
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, . . - - I 25 J
When thp amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and j
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, ... jo I
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of I
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrament in natui* thereof, on anyfhip, veflel or
goods inl'ured from one diflrifl to another in United States, jj
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for whici)
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dollars, ■ * - 15
When the sum insured shall exceed five hundred dollars, - j J
Any Exemplification, of what nature fotver, that shall pass the seal of any I
Court, nther than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular ftste, - 50
Any Ron'i, bill finple or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga- I
tion or contrj<sl, made to or with the United States or any state, or for their I
uferefpeiftively, - -
[. If abuve twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15-
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
, And if above ojie thousand dollars, ... . 7J
} PromiJed, that if any bonds or notes shall be payable at or within sixty days,
fiiih bonds or notes shall be fiil>je£t to only two fifth parts of the duty I
aforelaid—viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - j
If above one hundred dollars and not exceedir.,* five s, 10 I
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoufatid'dollars, , , ao j
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Nates L.Tued bv the banks now eftablifhcd, or that may hereafter be eftab- I
lifted within the United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks j
as shall agree to an annual competition, of one per centum on tjie di- I
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders reipeiiively, according to
the following scale. - - . - -
On all note 3 not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - 0
On all notes above fifty dolllrs, and not e>ceeding one hundred dollars, I 5
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding"five hundred
dollars, - . c < - . . I 1 -
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - j J
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, - . - - jj J*
. Any Lfctter of Attorney, excipt for an invalid pension, ot to obtain or fell
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for niilitiry 'services j 1
performed in the late war, - - . 1 . 4 , I j
■ Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of CuftQms or duties, for less than
) five hundred dollars, - - . I
ij For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dpl[art, 2
lj Formore thin two tlioufand - - a
' Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize Jobs expqrted,
1 if from one dittddl to anotlier diftria of the Uiiited States, not" b'eins in the I (
fame State, - - . . IO V
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - t j
Any Inventory or Catalogue ps any furniture, goods or efTefts, made in-4ny I
safe required by law, (except in rafts r cf- goods a?\d 4tftrvb?d for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any offiseXjl 50
Any Certificate ofa Share in any Insurance Company, ufVlJiar? in tk? Bank of j~
the United States, or of any State or other Bank j"
If above twejnty dollars and itbt exceeding one hundred dollars, ». 10 I /
If ibove one hundred dollars, "' '"i U ' r . a »I ®
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars. I C
11. 1 j
The duties aforelaid will be collected and received by the Supervisors, Infpeftors aud other Officers I
of Infpeition, in the several Diftrifts, Surveys and Divisions of tjie United States, and by /uch other I
perfonsas shall from totiiue be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diflrifts for I
thatpurpofe. I
lU.
The Supervifers of the faveral Diftrias will, prior to the firfl day of July enfus«g, and as soon as I
may be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or. parcels of Velhim Parch- I
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties • Or I 7
Hamped vellum, parchment and paper tyav at the option of the Citizens of Ae United States, be 'ob-I
taincd at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpeftor, Officer of Infpectien" I
or other parson appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of'Diflridts. 'I *
GIVEN under my Haud, at PbUMplia I St
the Jay and year atovenentioned. I an
. v OLIVER WOLCOTT, I Ti
Mar c h to- Secretary of the Treafurv. P'
James Humphreys,
TJEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
J_) in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lishing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every alliftance in their
( power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PaiNT BT SUUSCRIPTIOK,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To be published every Wednesday and Saturday
morning, on the following conditions.
It will be printed on feur pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholelale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each Article—The Pri
ces Current at Boston, New-'Vork, Charleston,
and other parts of the United States, with the Pri
ces Current at London, the Weft Indies and clfs
wh.ere as often as th»y can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The raus of infnranee—the price
of stocks—course of exchange, &c. &c, Likewise
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as shall
be thought ufeful and important— and the remain
der of ttje paper will be appropriated to advertife
mcnts.
The price to fubfcrif>ers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be ielivered at their hou
ses, wiil be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub-
Icribers at a greater distance will have it sent them
agreeable to their diredtions—to pay two dollars at
the time of fubferibing, and the remainder at the
eoid of the year.
1 he publication shall commence at soon as a fuf.
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of, conducing it. > <
It is from the advica and to gratify the wish
of a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
printer proposes publishing this Price C-nrrent in a
quarto size ih preference to any other. Ard it is
propoftd to embrace the Prices Curr<yit with such
other patter as may be mod material to fend abroad
in the firfl two pages—appropriating the other two
to such matters as way be m'ire immediately do
mellic, and to idvcttifement*.' .
[ rtrtiveirbyf.id Humphries, at
hisTrmtuHJ Office, Nfo. ; 4 , North Third-flreet,
andlifr, tZo Poolfor, juh. athisoffice in Chrfuut
ftrdet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A C ;?, NVENtENT we " built second hand Light
rv Waggon, hung on Jacks with glalT,.s and
blinjs in the doors, with or without harness
Rmm.re of Pe.er Umerickhoufe, Arch, below
.-(lxth ftrect, or the fubferiber in Germantown I
CASPAR IV. HAINESI
"f" 1 4 -J3W3W
Frefli Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. j 4 , Chefnut-flreet,
AND BT
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf k
Bohea, Squch ong, Hy so«, You n g
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, afT»rted ; black and ,coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutellring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
They have alfa Fit Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Can»bricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. |
Now Opening,
At Willi a m M'L aw s Saddle Manufactory,
No. 72, Che/nut Street,
A general aflbrtrnent of Horseman's
Pifiols, direct from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles/Holsters, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
A P ril 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January nth, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION PF THE CITIZENI.
"! I t HE following arrangement is made by the
X said commissioners, for cleansing the
ftrects, &c.
Diftritt No-I.—From the north fide of Vine
flreet, to the south fide of Mulberry
be under the fuperinundance of Nicholas Hicks.
i From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Chefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
| fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole.
| 4- From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, ts> be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
sss* When pumps are oat of order south of
High-street, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-Areas, or Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, near Chcfnut-ftreet ; and north of
High flreet, to Dixey and Dehavcn, in Saffafras*
street, between Sixth and Suveath-ftrccts. ✓
, TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30ih. 179®*
Public Nodes is hereby given,
and 1' by an ail of Congrtfs paired oil the
tlie 1 rgth .day of March, 1798,.the following
a titrations and amendments have been made to
nti " j the aa puffed on the 6th day of July 1 797>f n "
lcc " " liim, parchment and paper."
I.
, I Theflamp duties on debentures or i-ertifi
e I cites for the drawback of Cuttorns or duties op
i\lh I I ,n P" rts ire repealed.
I A difeount at the rate of seven and one half,
[ per Ccmnm, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or refpedlively, to any persons other
I than tyificqrs ps the Ktvenue, who may pur-f
[ chafe time or procure to be ftamped,.any<.
I quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
I which the duties ill all amount to Ten Dol
] lars or upwards.
I 1 ' i;I.
j' Stamped Piper, will be provided. and fold at
I tlit rates prcl'cribed by law, withppt, any ?ddi-
I tional charge or expense on account of the
I price of Paper ; but for ftatnped Parchment or
I Vellum, an additional prce will be demanded
Jat the rate ofFifty Cents for each {kin of Parch
I ment, or Two Hundred Cents foreach {kin of
I Vellum of medium size, which may be
J ed at the expeufe of the United States and pro.
j portionally for any leflrr quantity.
Cliven under my hand, at f~hiladelpbia, the
day and yeir abo-vementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treafufy.
I IV ANT £ 1), '
I APPROVED BILLS on Amsterdam —for which
J cash will be given at the rate of thirty seven c«i>is
I per guilder. Enquire of the Calhier of the Bank
I of the United States. § april 13.
LANDING,
I Frem on board the {hip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscribe*,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE ,
300 canisters SUGAR, of a fupcrior quality
J ALSO,
A quantity of SAFAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
| »pfil 17- I , 5
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
j AtNo.s, Dock-ftreet,neartheDr;awbridge,
I China wart Cankeen dining fciis, tea and coffee
I crips and saucers
I Nankeens, black fuuins and unities
I Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and I
I China and F.nglifa umbrella*,
I with a general ajfortment of European I
Goods— among which are
I Scots thread in boxes | ]
I <jd• id lod. lid and 2od. nails
j Shot—T". Crowley steel, brown and wJiUS [
I lead'
| ERglilh scythes 4% to $0 inches
AW,
j 111 barrellsef kiln dryeid Indian corppjeal.
I A commodious StoreinDock-fircet,
I No. 7, to be let, three {lories high, suitable for I
any business. I "
j 4'h mo. sth g t f
~ SALT P El RE.
j One hundred kegs of refined Sa.lt Petre, J
For Sale by the Subfcnbers. C
James C. & Samuel IV. Fifier,
No. 13, Arch Street J
march 31 4 tawtf 11
j Cl :
Joseph Ricardo, £
I this City, Merchant, h&s nlHgncd his pro- I v<
I v-/ perty for the benefit of his Creditors, ts James I c '
IC. Fiflier, Samuel W. Filher, and Thomas Wilson. vi
I All persons who have demands are re
-5 I quelled to furnifh their accounts without delay Ij'
r I and those indebted to make immediate payment to I '
r I the Subscribers, a&ing Aflignees. I
James C. & Samuel IV. Ft/her.
,{ No. 13, Arch Street.
I march % t 4 tawtf
Canal Lottery—No. 11. I
,1 TT/"ILL commence drawing Monday, the zoth I 110
» V infl. Tickets for Sale in this I.ottery, at I
I Sevm Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery I
j and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreec 2r '
I Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at "Ten t0
I Dalian, where check books are kept lor register-
I ing and examining in theft, the City of Walhing- ne
j ton, No. 11. and Patterl'on Lotteries, and- informs- | du
I tion where tickets maybe had in mod of the X.otte- I _
I ries authotifed by law in any of the States of the j
I Union.
I N.B. The bnfinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
I felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
I difconnting Bills and Not es of Hand, {'ale of '
I Lands, Houses, &c. «cc. will bedtfly attended to, tcr
| y WM. ELACKEUIIN. '
| b Novemberi;<. j
; . JUST IiECEIVEUT- [id
I And for sale by corner of Second wc
j and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118-High-llreet for
IT- Dobfpn, 4i Sputh Second-llreet and the of
1 Booksellers generally, I ver
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.) | f'f.
BEACON HILL, K
A Local Poem, historic and deforiptive ! !° 1
By a Lady of Boflon. ln "
analysis- of bo oK I. j alio
AlluCon to the surrounding Profpeit— Invocation mat
to the River and fylvun Deities—to the Historic ?? (
Mufe—Fiaion discarded—Dedication to Wash. "'8 s
ingtoa—The Adtion opens at the Retreat of the '" gc
Columbians frpm Bunker's Hill—General Howe • j
—' The Memory of his Brother—Death of War- f,
ren—Perfonification of Fcrtune and Fame— A
Walhing'on at Mount Vernon—called to the ®, IQ
chief Cohimand—Formation-of the Columbian mjv
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli- mc j
tical Hittory of thp States—Their com- ir, ft
mandinj Officers—Siege of 801 l on—lts Suffer- tern
ings-NtgotUt; o " for the fafe Retreat of the phi.
Britilh ATmy—lts Departure:—Appointment of jin C
Congrcfs—Declaration of Independence— Chi- j thep
raiter of the Columbian Soklfes—The Pact's '
prophetic Apostrophe to the Progrcfs of Free- Dec
dom through#ut the World,
• march 30, j
To be Let, ByT
(And poffeflion given on the id of MayJ
A genteel three story brick House, whi
2 J feet front, a»d-40 fee t deep, with baqk buildings ci
and stables.at prefect in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third ftrcet.
April a. ' _a]
jusr'wimsHED, Nc
AND FOR. SALE AT THIS OFFICE, T,
{ Price If Cents J
Reflexions on IVlonroe s View- p re i
OF TBS CONDUCT or THE BXSCUTirZ, Wld
As published in the tll4t
GAZETTSE of >he UNITED STATES, p"'.
Under the signature of
scipio, a
In •which the Commercial Warfare of Fr<m« !,traced boll
to the French FaAion ip a: iu Scuta,
and tit X/ntivn cf Qffnf.'isn, t^
T, The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT QF THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on th« Books of the treafuiy, were
forwarded for London by th« fhxp Willhtu
,i„g Penn, Captain Jofiah,.which hath been captured,
cto and thcf Certificates supposed to be Io(t, riz :
en _ 3164. sl. Deferred debt,.in tbe jiamc of .Rev,
' Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
C "■ Great Britain, dated June », *797. Certificate
No. 10,073.
r Soit. is. Six per Cent. Stock, in the Bama of
Edward Home, of Bevismouot, Hants, Greit
' ofl Britain, dated May 30, 1797- • No. 15196.
J. 620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will.
' iam Manning,.of Ornifby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797- No.
fors ,10199. '
her JOIB3. 7». Thr.ee.per Cent. Stock, in the name
iur 'i of Jaunet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street,
»nt< London, Widow, dattd Oflober 31, 1797. No.
pon 11820.
)ol- For the renewal of the above Certifiettes, ap-
intended to be made at the fiid office of
the Trcal'ury of the United Statu,—.and all per*
iat sons concerned ared«fired to take notice.
Ijj. *uo-i» THI lAM« vtuit,
the Fifteen Ihareu Storkof tl>c Bankof UnitedStatesjin
or theuame of William Manning,of Orrr.fby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
c jj for five lharen each, dated January x, 179,7.
, of No. 7.5951, 15983. *59 8 4-
• t For the renewal of which.application is meant tQ
' He made to the said Bank of the United States, —y
ro " and all persons concerned therein arc desired to
, take notice. <.
tbe JN. VAUG HAN.
Philadelphia, may 4. ti6w
The following Certificates of Shares
TN the North American Land Company, (landing
j J. on the Books of said Company in the name of
Oan.el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dleft*, England—viz. No. reprefenting
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. el j0—13066 to
9 —13056 to 13065,
ten fliares—No. 1148 —115c9 to 11518, ten (harts
ie, —No. 2147 —1*471 to H4B0 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, vtcre forwarded for London by the
fli.p William Pe in, which having been captured*
said certificates are supposed to be loft; for the ra.
newal ef which, applicaiion will be made to the
ty Board of th« said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I M6w
Ross & SfMSOft,
I HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
e> Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few hales Eaftas, Coflaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
»
I april 20 ' §
LANDTN C, *
From on boar 4 the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta, t
I AND FOE SALE By i;H$ SUBSCRIBER,
I*6oo bags prime Sugar,
I ?oo do. Ginger
30. b?k« !»w priced pisce Goods.
t, John Miller, Jun.
, r march 3 5
p TO BE SOLD, """
acres of Land.
TN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennfyl
■> ■» vania, op the water* of Fi<h and Wheeling
Creeks and Teq Milq R.un,
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years aero for
five (hillings per furs ; patented early in 1787,ex
cfpt 37PP ?erct, which were patented in 1794 ;
part of the.m were fvirveyed iu 17,83. The Lra&
1 is between the.Ohio very eon
. I anient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
s I the town of Waftiington, from 14 to 16 from the
1. j villagj of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one lourth of the purchase mo-
I ney, a reafonaMe credit will be given for the reli
due. Enquire of the Printer.
3 | april at. $
TO BE SOLD; '
26,780 acres of Land,
I TN the State of New York, between the northern
, I A bounds of Pennfylv _ la and the StifquefiMina
1 I now, or late in the townlhips of Hamdcn and
. I Warren and county of Warren.
. I These Lands, Igr.i their quality and situation,
are a very defuable objeit forapy man who means
j to invell his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchaie mo
ney, a rcafonable credit, will! e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Prinser,
| april il. §
Salisbury Estate.
r T I HE SubTcriber, proposing to contr.a& hii buG
JL nest, offers this Estate for falc, on moderate
j terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
{ a 9°™P^ clc B? re ing, Machine, and a very good grid
j Mill, with two pair ajLJloncr; • good Forge, all
I in are all the Water Works conneft
jed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
J were lately built tor the purpose of catting Cannon
I for this State.—There are about two thoufaud acres
j of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
j very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
I Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfatlured there,
I fully proves the excellency of the metal, which it
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not oue of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
I into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this braach of
I manufacture, aad a place oi arras lying in the state
of Conne£licut,and only 30 miles from fevcralland»
Lings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furoace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufcful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all theftock anil utensils, and have pofTediori
on or before the firll ot June next, and preparation
may be made in themeariUaieforgpinginto BTall im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in gpod order, with some coal, Ore, Sc.c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joleph Anthony-, in PhiladeU.
phi a; David Brooks, Esq. f>ne of the Reprefenta&ives
in Congress tor this St* e ; Mr, Waterman, 09
theprcrmfes, or to the proorietor in New-York,
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. 3awtf
For Sale,
BYTHX SUBSCRiaiR, SO lO,CHIJ«a,T IttltT,
U Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on reasonable turaia on a ftort
credit.
Robert Henderfon.
April a , mw&64w
Notice —Agreeably to cliarter,
Is hereby given to the member» of " the cor
poration for the relief of poor and diflrelfed
presbyterian ministers and the poor and ditlrefled /
widows and children of presbyterian ministers,"
that a meeting of said corporation is to be hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the second prelb;terian church in the
city of Philadelphia, for the dil'patch of all fucli
bufir.afs a3 may then be brought before the
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. tawtitm