©ajftte of m ® nttrt States.... Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numbes 17 23. J
For NEW-YORK,
The Ship
? SARA H,
Captain
COOPIR.
J,arch, 7 . JOHN VAUGHAN.
For NEW-YORJC7~—^
fan failing Xloop
CONCORD,
Stephen Cahoone, mafltr ;
1 'W Ii L take freight on rrr*
moderate term.; for which, or | aifa^fh,yf2 i
elegant accommodations) apply to the ml I
board, at Clifford's wharf." 7 ° n
march 16.
_*«t
For Sale,
HARRIOT,
:<i ow 'y'fft at Ruff I*. Warf—
fcuriheu . 7 —thre.* y«arsold, built of the b»ft
materials and is well found— would answer well
tor a coaster, as fce has excellent accommodations
ror terms appiy to
Gurney & Smith.
S
For
COMMERCE,
Richard Waistcoat, Master.
1 ° f,il in a few days. j
. Ii k ' , Ab 7 fre'jht that may offer,
■will b£ taken on vrry mo-lcrate terms , for which
or pallaga, apply to the Captain, or to
Ifaae Harvey, jun.
. -I' ®°U ! h..W*ti:r-ltraet
marcn ij, R .
§ rw
Weft Incl an, '
PMladelphia built, lire oak and f
c.dar, » coppered, fteathed ,nd bolted. , y 4acs b
old f M l,r*mar*ably well, <„ ri „ t? „ r6oo T^ r . „
"'•-now lymj at Sd»th-ftr.er wharf, ready to a
lo 1! aw fETER BLIGHT. ,
fuarch 6. - 1
- §iw J t
fnr Hamburgh, I
T H B S H iqf j |,
DoMJNkK TERRT, jrf
Jacob Diha*t, Majltr, |''
, ' Having i part of her cargo «n* I; B
For freight arp»y to J
Jeffe cT Robert Wain, i
Feltaeary if, j
Nicklin & Griffith, J
At their i?tore on W»ln»t str«t Wharf— J Bl
HATI roa tan, | IZ
S$ hhds. of Jaijaica Rum J
Madeiri Wiae in pip«i aiidhh<!s.
i do. in p<pet
Old Po r t rlo, in hh
Dimities, Ginghams, aad Mudinett, in packa- j to'
ge» suitable for the Weft India market I <o
Nails afTorted I <j r
Black quart bottles I w ;
wsrfr in hhds. and eratei
Yello« acttr.- dry in casks ; j t j) (
And at New-York, on board the * n '
Ihip Diana, from Liverpool, expeAcd round j
as f the naTijation ia oyeß, I
Fine Liverpool .jalt I
Coals 1 |
Spinifh Brown "j j 1
Venetian Red | I l er
Purple { P \ T\ T 1 C ° r
Patent White PAKS.TS I cer
White Lead j | J UI
Red Lead J j lre
Colcntbar Vitriol I ol "
l6e bundles Sheathing piper
Seaming Twin* J
For Sale or Cbarttr. j
ALSO,
BrijjAMAZ*H.
late firm of Phfiip Nicklin Jt Co. J
i» now changed tn
NICKLIN GRIFFITH.
January i. eodtf
For Sale or Charter,
jOfeX, 1 he Snow I
WmA GOOL) hope
Will carry about uoo barrels, «nrf j
totaltcin a earizo. For term* |
apply to
Pragers Co.
No. i, Srtuth Secoiid-ftreet. I
Who hare for fate—prime St. Croix Sugar I X
*nd Rum, Midera, Li/bon, and Teneriffe wino. I nufai
November j, : , , , . dtf
The Commiflioners p c
FOR carrying into tffeA tli. TWEN'I Y-FIRST Fe
Article of the Ti*eaty of Friendlhip, Limits, and
Navigation, betwesn His Catholic Majesty and the A
Utiitci Statcsof Am«rica, hereby gi»einformation Havi
to all Perfont therein concerned—That in order
to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
cs fuftainedby the citizens of the United States, in J ,
conference of their Yeffels nd Cargoes having
been tikenby the of His Catholic Maief-
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc j, 1 '
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and one o'clock,' daily) all f
complaints and applications, authorized by the (aid or p c !
Article, dur/ng noiTttN months, from the day
of the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine allfuch perfonsas come h«fore them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the complaints' iti
•]dellion, and also to receive in evidence, ail writ
ten teflimony, authenticated io such manner as
they lhall think proper to require or admit. p c ]
By Order of the Commijfinert, ■
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Cemmljptneri Office, No. 109, Afulieriy
fre t, May 17tb, 1797.
Feb. 18, *98 —Jim
Tkqe Printer* it the feverml States um rujlifm.
fl t're ikeve ed->ertfevert lafl Spring, are refmafieJ tc
ft nte momSM, and fend tkeir aeeouttfi ft P. . mil
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, MARCH 19, 1708
t To be Sold at Auction,
On Thursday, 22i March, at 7 o'clock in
, the Evening, at the Me.skant'* Cosset-
House Second ftrcet.
raw, if A HOUSE, toget.'er with the Lot
■d- J- tnereto belonging, in the ?ity of Burling
lN. ! w -Jcrfiey. Tke honfe has three rooms
§ n^"T' and thr " thambei • inthe «pper fUrv.
1" f kittheu irfjogyqg i.-, , r niKe fc : ,; ij lt
Lot hii x fro'hT cf ; 1 far o* Ptirl-kreet, and
;«loop the fame fro*t on the river Delaware. The
length of the L>t it abo jt feet The honfe
r/fer • * V "X pleasant profpcfl of the river,
1 vcrC 1 !L B -rough of Bristol, on the Pennsylvania
'ivin» r 5' Jmrajdll,f possession may he hart. Pol
ler on ' unh " P»«icular., inquire of Mr. John Sims,
next door below the City ■ tavern in- Philadel
•(( P"'*t " r 'k« fukferiher in Bu. lingion.
Condition! will bemadeknown at time offalt.
_ THOMSON NE A AE.
Burlington, March 17. dts
r , ' Virginia LandT
arf— O# Tuesday tke 20th i»ft. will soli for
e b-fl Ca(h, by Public AuiSion, at the Mer
• well chant'i Coffee-Honfc, at 7 •'clock in
tions. t ] le eyeniHg, <
, r ~PHK following bodies of Land in the State
of Virginia, vi*.
* . '3.4"0' Acret situate on the waters of Biz
Steer Creek. fc
16,9jg Acres on the water, of the Little Ken
harva and the wtft fork of the Monongafiela.
S^ s °.' *»t<-ra of Buchannon river.
1 articular defections of the Lands, and a..
xfler. examination of the titles may be bad bv ao»lv
mg to 1 rr J
S' Foetman & Ct. Auctioneers.
' ,rCII dtiom
Will be fold on W cdnefday the
W o'clock it. .he evening, a.
' h i^" chsnu for ca(h,
J\ wir BI u tllc la(l wi " and teftjL,n «nt of
' jT* William Hey (ham, docc.fed, and possession
givr. immediately, a „|„ blr Propcrt / in Arih .
» ra few*?* W-riwn,.
' . J* re 7. *"'h the Lot on which it
"», a Stable and other imprnvements The !
** s hßuf = " V feet front and eo.-»i„, ten good
ni; r helot 11 of tho ftme bread-has the honfe /
fto and ao 9 feet d-op with a w,„ of watered,' '
very npacion. walUd ciffern, both with pump, in
- •° m P le " re P l,r The table Hands on the re rof
1 th. lot, apd will accommodate soar horse. and a T
Ir" P ro P er, T «"joy. , perpetaal priri- I
ege I Ds »16 feet I••-tt and an alley 8 f.et wide, ex
r, h° d ' H ng Cherr 7 ft '« £ cantral pofinon,
the advaiiuges u poflere. with r. to free Vrn
""dcr. it' well worthy the att«t,on of (I
- pE2s P ;;, fl,, ' f to pofftf ' in d| t ,kie «
* ,itrt . H'Xfi**' «r 1 Afti'nj
I Francis Bvives Ssyre, 1" Executon.
-I M . CONNELLY V d AuS'r,. "
N- B. The hoH* wiil be op»n two days pre»i-
J out to t'« fale.for the iafpedinn of thoie who wifl>
Je, mtrch 7—j'ud jr,
Oil 1 uelday, the 10th day of n
I '* P'". 1 " 1 * I 'at o'clock in the ereniDg, at
I ',,5"J Tavers, Second Street, i> the City
J of Philadelphia,
J to pnblic Ale,
:»• 1 townihip in the cotnty of Northumbrian*, ani*
I eontainißg in the whole fix tnoufand seven hun-
I dred ,and sixty-sour acres and three quarters, __
I with the nfual allowance for roads,
j Terms of (ale, i-j of the purchase money on t
I the execation of the deed, r-/ in three nrio«th»,
[C and I-a in fix months, ia good notea or other
le | I •pproved feearity
CONNELLY W Co. Ma. T
I March y iawtit dtioa
I | HH trrmof Co-partneriiiip berween the fob- ? C
I I fcribers, trading under the firm *f John Mil „ '
I ler, jun.and Co. expires this day, a«d by matual o, 1
J cot,fent wiH not be renewed- fae dekts a;-d con-
J cerns of the fame «i Ibe fettltd by John MiHer, C ''
j Jun. to whom all thofe'indabtrd to the partnerfliip,
I are earneMy requeited to ma'ie payment to, with- M '
I oat delay. Gi
JOHN MILLER, T un . Gu
ALEXANDER J. MJLLER. L
Febrnary 9 <( ,
LANDING,
J From board tke Ship Sally, fr«na "
Calcutta,
ANI FOl .At. XT Tlil ikllfilHl,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 d©. Ginger
JO bale» low priced piece Geod«.
John Miller, Jun.
I <""ch t,
_J FOR SALE, »r S«
John iVjiller, jun.
No. 8, Chcfimt-ftreet,
j A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMOK.ST WHIOB A*X
1 j Garrahs Mamoodies
I | Baftas Sanna. Bt
Guxzenas Tanda Coffats Ja
Guaxies Emertics St
Blue Cloths Calicoes is
Palam; oors Romall Haadkerehie.'s 3c
"j A mongft them are a great proportion of the m> A
• I Bufaflurei of Pataa. Q
I Britifli Dry Good»,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum. Mrti
Fahruaey 19 5
Alex. J. Miller & "James Davis,
Haying entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friend#in tcrwn and country', that
thiy hare opened a Wbolefale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front Street, Philadelphia ; wber«
they now hare, and intend keccping a general af
fojtment of German, Irifi, Frtntb and Bri Ift
tijb Mancfailoreifcr sale, o« ad vantage o«« term t
for cash or a (hort credit. Xt
February 19 §tf Lq C
St. Croix Sugars. Ln
*6 hogsheads bert ST. C'N JIX SUGAR, Q|,
For salb by 24
JOHN NIXON & Co. 8.1
Feb. f... . . fa w( f Kla
FOR SALE, " a f
400 barrels Sp«
Inquire of * Tai
Gcorgt Pennotk, or p'°,
Oil HUI W*.
» eotf f
By John Fenno, N=" il9 Chejmit
landing
; k in From oh board the Schooner Rakoek. from
jffee- J
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee
<■ Lo: For hi
nom« SAMUEL HAYS,
com 9 ar '
fUrv \xrk l v , . la 7
\ l . Who ha * on 4, -00 p ace!* In
- 1: - di* NANICEJitSfS, of« fw >cri«r quality
TK" - M ' roh 'i _ _ dtt
10Mf ; just received;
1 ver, . **om roir-d.fiiKci,
rania And fOK h the SUBSCMCEAS,
Po, no hhds. Coffee
im., z,6 tierces do.
idel- 100 barrels do. .
100 bags do
sale. Ito hoglheads of Muscovado Sugar
E. 80 barrelsof do.
40 hogiheads of Molafles
4 bale* of Cotton
a hogffieads of Cocoa
for WILLINGS £3* FRANCIS.
Icr- Penn-ftrect.
tin §_
Landing from on board the fliip
tate Tennelfee, capt. Smith, freim Hamburg,
And FOR SALK by the Sviscaiaxas,
Bi c 325 pieces Quadruples Silefias
- 400 do. Platillas
100 do. Crcas
52 d*. do. Ala Marlaix
lo*s do. Dowlat
a,i 20 do. red striped Arabias
* " 2,0 <fo. blue Guingai
100 dozen berdercd Handkerchiefs
Mrtf & I*wis 89/1 maun,
*23» Seuth Third'ftreet. '
ALSO, ON HAND,
1C A «afe of printed Xluflins and Cali«®es
at gnateft ra> c
of Frefli Teas. 1
ton
ing Imparted, in tbe Jhip Delaware, r
ir - Captain Co«per, from' Canton,
He And For Sale, tf
re- SAMUEL HOWELL,
!<■. At his Cctiptiag House, No. 54, L'hefnat-ftreet, h
.* ako *r
. SAM. E. HOWELL,
I , Coaipting House, Crooked billet wharf, -
Bohei,Souchong,Hyfon,Young
x- Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial T£AS.
Aksa,
B " _ Ckina Ware, aff.rted; blaak and coloured Late
of "rinps and Sattins, Na.keens, Cassia, larre garden bi
ty and common Fans, fattin and luteftrinr Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
They iavt also Ftr idle,
I. _ EU , * ldc , Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
m ° lc * aß(i Oaabrellas, Sugai in boxes. p |
i* V - V
ft J t-morrow will be Landed,
Frem *n board the brig Benjamin Franklin, eapt.
Janes, from Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
y aj°" kc, 42 ,0,,d, » i - -
■ JVUO, r
y ""fasMßvi
PHILIPS, CRAMOND Co. «'
1, anarch 7. j js •
FORSALE, vr l
« ay the 1 tbscrißaar, No. 11, Penn-ftreet, i C e
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, ?u
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conbjiing t>f
Baftai, of various qualities and prices, j_J
- CofTaea Pnnjum Cloths
Sanaha Gu/zeydo.
, Humhumi Charconna Dcrea T1
. Blue Cloth Tstijibs
Chintz and Calicoes MulHiafs
' Mamoodys Checks
' Mabaragonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams M«!niu. do.
Guzzenas Bandannoes f
Gurtahs Siflerfoy 1
Piniafcoas Choppu Romali
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perfjans of various co!.
Mock Pulicats T
ioo tons SUGAR *•
>e,ooo lb. PEPPER. 9 en
Wt I lings hf Frantis.
The Piece Goods »f»
Of the Ganjr« are now open to fait at that cc!!c
commodious store the north weft corner of J W °r
Market and Fourtb-ftreets.
Also—A few Baies of Madrafs Hkfs. ofele- S
gant patterns and best colours. '
reU "r*-_ iZ
ROSS &• SIMS ON, furr<
"ATI ro* SALB., ant!l
A few bales Baftas, Coflai, and "a"
a quantify of Bengal COTTON g»hh
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes 14 1
Jamaica, the p
St. Vincents, C RVM. differ
and Bengal j The 1
300 cafkj RIPE, »»d small
A parcel of Ihip Wilding REB CCBaR. ient! ]
Q(i 17- ■ 4 Stock
+. . I ■— Sheej
Landing j r*'"'
From on board tbe Snev Maria, from Cofen- PfCm
. , _ l " l S en ' fy
A few Torts Russia Cleaa Hemp
3' e Havens Duck
250 piece? Rhffia Sheeting TT
* 100 bolts Russia Duck, and . 1 !
A Quantity of Swedes Iron ? jf
Fir Sale by '
JOSEPH ANTHONY V Qv. b
IF it have Mr Hand, Th,
id and ad proof Boardtaux Brandy ' afqua
4th F rocf Spanish ditto U*t.
New-England Rum put (t
London Particular') Th<
and v Madeira Wine in Pipos Ap ,
London Market 5 lnd nUarter Ca&s " trail t
Old Claret in Cases varieti
14 Ivlids. Coffee just arrived best at
Best Bolton Beef in barrels A!fi
Mackrell in do. Forest
Halifax Salmon ia do. ence °
A small invoice of Rhode-Island Cheefc from 1
Spermaciti Oil f ro ™ *
Tanners ditto is woo
No- 1, a,Bofton Sail Duck • 5o "
Russia Cordage, and ln f*~
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glass .Vare '
MiTch U daw rebi
A G
A Great Bargain.
, ftom BE t>OLl). if applied 'orimmediate
v ♦ ly, Twenty Tlumfand Dolhrs in Bill« cf
offee, ( re< U P O '- in'treft at Gvc percent. per annum,
now lodged in the Treasury, >:n 1 cndorfed by thj
United States, with a promjfc ta " pay-Che in!a
---► r ft annually."
En<ja.re at the Oflke of THOMAS MaEWEN
;e " 7 n " & '- t
t Wanted to live in tlie Country,
About fir.- miles fr»m this city, a sober ftca
tlay Man who' imderftands gardening and the
management of a few acres of land, and would
not ohjeil to attend a couple of horses ,S uc h
a one may meet with liberal wares by applying
at tke office of this Gaxette.
N. B. None need apply but those of unex
ceptionable charadWs.
M » rch *3- dta
To be Sold,
An elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 acres and 40 perche*, with a Beat !
» two (lory brick Hopfe and kitchen.thereon, an ar
' pic Orchard, &c lituate on the Irilli trafl line, iu
-A the towoihip of MnyameuGng, about one mile from !
(hip the city of Philadelphia. Further parti.u)?.m will 1
be made knows upon application at the office of :
the Philadelphia Gazette,
p Ihe improvements upon this place, for taste and '
liaS elegance (land unrivalled. *
N. B. II tbe above place is not fold before the J
Joth inft. it will th«n be rented, i»r the Summer
f-afoa only. § march 5.
Wanted, ~ \
An adlive, cleanly, in Jultrious woman to cook *
aad do tbe business «f the kitchen. Such a one i;
will be allowed gpod wages, and no other need an- c
, t _ ply.—Enquire of the Printer. 1;
February 7 S *
jt A Wet Nurse wanted, f«
- A healthy Woman, who can be wellrecommen- c
Apply at tbis Office. L
march r*.
re. Notice is hereby given,
THAI application will be made for the renewal *
of a-Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
U»ited States, Sanding ia the name of the Sukfcri-
No - s®°4, and dated July ii, 1797—the fame r
e ". having; keen loft.
JOHN GRAHAM. th
rf m " th s <6w „«
' u
o And may be entered on immediately, ™
A good dry Store, te r
Ite- Throe stories high, and in a* excellent Hand for «o
ien bufiaefs. Apply to b«
Thommt & Jofiua Filer, ,h
m * rc^l *• i 5 No s, Oock-ilreet.
»f». Landing this day t thi
From o«boatd the schooner Two Friend., Dan m!
~ * kuj le ' Cr,wle y. Matter, , of
... ""I Jamaica RUM, *
roa jilr »r am
z. Gearge Latimer 8s 5 Son. j
I, *»f(mkrr 9. $
arrr- ~.*?* SALE, ~ """
1 1 xra vitivrnrot -r*t vctj
NEXT door but ope to the co?ner of Fifth-ftreet, ,ls
occupied by the fubfcriWr. Its eligible fixation
11 well k-nowib—The room* ire spacious and co*-
- vc " iei J*' a ®d fini(h«d in ahapdfome flilc—lt has M
a double Kitche», and excellent Cellar., with as
' |ce House and rain water Cillern, and thtre is a
Pump of food water near the kitchen door.
Fo- tfrme apply to
GARRETT COTTRINGER. ~
march *. j IW
TO LET, ] B;
And poff.-ffisn given th« lft April next,
TneHoule No. 258 High-street,
At prafeat o cupitd by P. BaTtia, Esq.
Apply to
kdwarcl Shoemaker,
L , No. I*7 High ftrr-et. JT
—P«l.ru«ry i 4 eo d 3 w ■r f
Valuable Property for Sale. 1
rot SAI E A
Y°PAn"^r D v Eaa,C ;'^ Ilcd SMREWS ' form
i. LJR . FARM, .#rm' tly the reficlence of the r
9enrral Joho fituate on U.. tcr , ;
ver, in Kent cs.nty, Maryland—containiag a- f.e},
bout 1900 acr f s o. prime LAND, upward, of tog ,„d «
•f which are <n wood,. The Buadiiig. are all'ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House
F ' WO r !tr e c ® arils wirli Cow houses. Stable, for fifty *"
aifes, a treading floor undercover a ,
granary, two Overseer 1 . house., two ran- Jan
res of two story building, for Negroes (or.e of
them new and of brick), Corn We,, a Smoak N
houie.&e.&c—Tha whole Eflate beinr nearly
furrouadad by water, it require, but Sttle fencing r „
andhas a good Shad and Merringgfhny. It U a
conveniemly fiuated for both the and l-j
Baltimore market,, v, i-b two land 1B g" on a nayt J
gable river but a fbort tail from Baltimore. There n
!he mlm ;r aßdtW ° larEe AfP ' e^ Orchard, on p
thep.enui..; »lfa, a variety as .xcellent fruits of 1
The wh' I i', J*# " * rich J' (
The whole wil b. (,U together, or divided into p°
finaller farm, (for which the building, are conven. f,r
lent.y situated) at may suit the purchafct The r
Stock on fjid Farm, cooflfting 01 Horfts, Cattle w"
■Sheep, &C Will aU-o ke difpoWof [ Ur -Q IJK
parucuUr. a ff ly „ H„T, N c,, on V
premrfe., or tathe fuJ.K-,h tr . i„ —
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jw».
.. yAr M : taw6w "pO!
Bafkenridge— tor sale land;'
TT consist, of 9 »o acres, shnofl all of which is We,
ir lr J r "v V J" dow < ( t!l « reHdence of the late lon K>
4.»r of Stirling). It may be conveniently dnided A cutl
nto five urais, lour of which are bounded am the re £ ula
Ei.l by the river Paf.iek. •
t h<ro are en it a number of building., formiu- ™ ZT
afquare of nearly three aer«s_The dweliiog haul? .
m a very convenient 0,.e and.a small expence would ?' J
put it 18 complete repair. T"r r
confi A« 15C3 fins bearing engraf- W
cq Apple 1 rees—and there is on other pnrt» ol CalJ 9
trader pother Ap pk Tree.-"
Ua e lL°L:i /y rU!tS ■ r" CaUrl r Che "'" ° r Ticket
befl and u<k& delicious kinds. ~ ~
Fofeflr nUm } er ° { beautifni E "'i" «•«! inr Z
Jnlfl'S?'. , > tha beau, > r Jnd «"»eni- ton N
ence of the place. It. situation i. about 18 miles tion'wl
fr«™ M C tOW r* 0 Ntwark alld Elieabcth : 10 da. rie. au"
[.wo^"'^erel d,lfr6nl Union.
. T ° Uyc t j roubl «. the price is five pound pr. ac*e wL®
incalb ondelivery of the deeds. .n T *
r. McEUEN & Co? IZ,
February a. N# ' ?8, Cfacfau ' r treet " h T
7 Nov(
I ■ i ■ .... - -T
w A N T r ®,
idiate
I A Gardener—a Single Man.
iil» ef I None »e«<l apply, uiilcfj hi- can brir.g good IC+
unura, | commendation..
by thi; fnquire at No. Market-lkeet.
tint#- march f.
weu 7"J arid'far Salt at ibt Boakfltrt If
W *? WILLIAM YOUNG;
No. {• South Second flreet.
cry, a c:,mplj:te history of
ft t *. CONNECTICUT,
id the CIVIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL,
ffiu.d Froai the emigration at it* iinirpliater. iromEa
vfC* gjapd in to 17IJ.
lying By BINJAHIX TRUiABULI, o a:
VOLCMt r.
mex- Umbellifce.' with a correil Map of Che State, and
Portrait. of fume ol the firil f::t!ers, fron*origL
ual painting..
march it. *eojw.j
Ran away from the fubferiber,
1 scat ? n f^e * ' * ,Jfo indented lriih Servant Wen :
:i a r,_ * homas M'Guire, ahout 25 years of age. and 5
c t in i(CZ 8 inchcs ?"2 h * CpbiA,* flout, and well made-,
from ort black hair, remarkable for a fear on one of
1 will ki* temples ; he is a forward, dec-itful, vicious,
; C 0 f and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed fr< m my
fci-vice Jrffrv Corbet, about the Tame age and
5 and height, buc of a iwildrr difpolitipn, and more (len
der make, ftiort brown hair ; rh«jr working appa
tjie relwaj blue cl9th ovpr jtchett, lined with coarfc
imer brown linen, check and brown linen (him, gfty
yarn Fockingg, mixed t.villed grey cloth trowferj,
anii rulictt leather fhoc> ; they Juve och«-r cloaihing
, which altogether g!V«-* them the appearance of fea
cook f 4r ' H |[ nien, 6t have been brought up to the 1 arm
one ' D £ bufineli; no doubt will have forced r>afle« and
lap- c baoge their names and apparel a& Convenient, jjnd
have taken the post road to Phrlapetphia, I pu/»
$ «h«fcd them tbelaf) fall of capt- Rellins, in Balti
more. I will give bifty Dollars for securing
so that 1 get then, and will pay all rcafouaMe
icn- c "**ges if brought home, or if feparared, Thirty
. Dollars for Thomas, and TweYity for j^ffry.
ARTHUR B*YAN,
Head of Wye, 1 albot County— March 7.
j mtrch 14 jawjw^
X Custom House,
cri " Di/riM of Pennsylvania, March 6lb, 170?,
una "~pHE MERCHANTS ef PHILADELPHfA,
X who may have any account or knowledge of
the capture or detention of any {hip or vrflel, car*
r go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United State*, residing within this diftri&, by or
under the authority of foreign nations, (:nce the
firft day *f O&obcr, *tj particularly requeC
ted to give in information thereof, to the Cellec
for tor of the Fort of Philadelphia, as soon as may
be convenient ; fpecifyiDg the name of the veflel,
the captain's name, th« number o tons, the efti
t mated value of th« viflel, if condemned, the efli
— mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi
ther carried, and by. or under the authority of
what nation captured, with such observations ac
W may he thought neerffary upon the circumilancoo
of each cafe, in order that Itarements thereof may
be tr nfmitted to the Secrctaiy of the I'reafury,
who is required to lay the fame before the Sentto
and House ot Rcprefentativesof the United
_march 7. tot
_ LANDING.
"" _ AMD FOR SAL C,
~ •& "■ ~ *1 ■ ■ I—- 1 —-•— —_ • a
r t. *»»«B»rke, mailer, from Aui-Layo.,
>n ing at Bell's wharf,
CON JIl T lie 0 <fT
a» Molafles, Coffee, Sugar and Dye
'» Wood, 7
* Apply to
ISAAC HARVEY, JVN.
jmo.6. §nv Sau,}, Water-ftrect»
for SALW, 7 '
- By WHARTON & LEWIS,
N«. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanncr'i Oil,
> 4th proof Ja«aic«Ru!ii, •> entitled te
Ift and idpro»f Brandy, J drawkaak.
Madeiia Wine, . .
Juniper Barries, 4cc.
eodtf
THE Subscriber informs tho?e
10 Wh ? m h o " ' n,Jcbtef< . ,h " • prrfon wUI
attend every j, Sunday, exceed, until the J
of April next, the hour, of IO o'cl.ck inth«
morniDg till a th, after C con, at the ho.fc
■ eccupied fcy him U Chcfnjot-Sreet, f or
Ue purpose cf fh, w ,ugall book., paper, , B< J lct .
rMd/'lt *.!'" Pt ' : ' onjrucrtial - tranfaflion. to
f«c 1 of h» creditors a, may think proper t. ttteni
' *ad examine them. « cu *
JAMES GREENLEAF.
march t.
eotlA
James C. sis Samuel W. Fiiher
TUE'.X STORE, *
corner of Arch «fid Frant
M/trt FOR Idlt,
Cotton and ,„r ile d Hottcry ii. trunk.,afTore*-
A few bale, red, white, and yellow FlaimW
1 fu.ty roniall HandkerchieU
Ditto Pullicat f,!k ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madras. di«.
Oitto Gurrah.
Bengil black Taffetie.
4000 piece! Nankeen., and
Few th-ft. bed Hyson Tea
fromTb/? Load '»' Window GU,
from Bby6,to i 9 by 14—and i 5 bhds. GlTfc
cheaper
W.T 18
Jtawtf
A Garden tQ be let,
-• ° t y B r tCrm f y ' ar '' fifu ' te aJ<,ut *mlcfrc m
i the Court-ho«fc, contain. ah<,. f "
Und it a l;i gh iUt« of
house, uereSedaihtKe orcm]/>. ». '8 e S reen
long, with a
A cub (iJeraMe <;u,r, t L crf kl cIL c '^ve.
regvilarly of *">
i —t - ■■ <■ 1
'-anal Lottery—No~lT
Sevim Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN,'' , *'
and Brokers Office, No. 64. xLTsiT^Z^
Ticket, inlh» Schuylkill Brirfce Lo-terr ~s*
P»"ar, where check book, arc kept for
mg jnd exsmining in these, the Oitr o' win "'
ton, No. 11.and Paturfon l.otteries ao'. f
00 -h,re tickets maybe h^
ssr-" " r
fcllir? all kinrt. of !^)' l "/"'d
directing Bill, and Note of
Novsmatr ij.
s
xiii.Xftc ffasette, ■ 'll
PHILADELPHIA, -s
MONDAY EVENING, Maicb 19.
1 , •_ *• y
folii%uing is a mirt accurate account oj- j
the experts of the Uniui States, than that c
p.MJhed in a former number of thit Oa- {
zctte."}
STATEMENT, ' „
Of the value of Goods, IVares and Mir-
ciondine exported from theUniTED States f
CuFokeign CsuNTtiis ; commencing ift ■]
October 1796, and ending 30th September t(
1J97.
Ewropi. Dolls. n
Ruflia, - - - 3>45°
Sweden, - *
Denmark and Norway, - '4°>97 2 t
United Netherlands, - 7,062,457 a
England, Man and Berwick, 4,43^' 2, 7 p
Scotland, • - 526,991
Ireland, . h
Gibraltar, - • ' !
Gueiafey, Jersey, Sark, ht. f
Imperial Ports, &c. - c
Hair.burgh, See. - . 9-5 8 9> 8 5 8 c
France, - - - 3'534» ,6 5 t
Spain, - - - 1,625,500 {
Portugal, - 221,979 f
Italian Ports, - - 76?>°64 t
Europe generally, - - 207,077 (
1 —— v
29' 1 94>3*9 {
Africa. t
Capdiof Good Hope - j
Morocco and Barbary States, 15,000 ■
Bourbon and Mauritius, - 5 8 '79 2 |
Africa, generally,. - - 2 3°» 8 73 (
Madeira, - • - t 188,694 .
Teueriffe, - - : 4 6 ' 6 3 I
Fayal, - • S>s & *
Cape de Verd Islands. - 47» 12 9
1■ * ■
592,627
Asia.
Britilh E>l Indies, - 21 >3 2 5
China and East Indies, generally. 387,31®
408,635
America.
Britilh American Colonies, 360,367
Newfoundland Sc Britilh Filheries, 44*529
Britilh Well Indies, 2,101,720
Honduras, ... 129,700
Swedish Weft Indies, - 898,315
Dani(h do. - - 2,392,252
Dutch do. - - 1,783,029
French do. - •- 8,071,134
Spanish do. - - 2,879,170
Weft-Indies, generally • 1,508,044
Florida and Louiliana, - -' 9*5> 2 5 2
North Weft Coast of Africa. is>fc>7
c 21,099,119
Total aico.int of exports, 51,294,710
V
MX. FENNO,
_A.tl,c^a of Jacobins.
precepts of their brethren in France, I re
commend to their atcention, and to the at
tention of the Federalists too, the following
extrai3s from the late dashing address of the
eommiffary of the executive diredtory a»
Calais. C.
V* Remember that there is no longe%,any
room to temporize, and that you mutt frank
ly (hew yourselves to be what you are. If
there arc any among you, who are not de
toted to the cause of liberty, remember,
that of all kinds of baseness it is the gceat
eft to receive pay and maintenance, and to
hold a place under a government which you
deleft, and the deftrudtion of which you are
desirous to bring about ; -and quit your fix
ations before you are driven from them, and
lay alida a mafit, which focner or later will
be torn from you. f -
" Zealous officers the rspublic, it is
on you that the republrc particularly relies,
and on your example and your influence, to
give vigour to the public mind« Employ
?n your offices none but the partisans of li-,
berty, and discard those who have fignsliz
ed themselves by contrary opinioas."
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY MARCH t6.
Mr. Brooks presented a petition on be
half of James Perry, for compenfarion for
property taken from him during the war,
for the use of the army, which, after a num
ber of objections 011 the ground of its being
a claim ef the fame nature with many others
which were daily rejected, was referred to
the committee of claims;
Mr. Macon, from the committee of revi
fal and unfinifhed business, made a farther
report, {taring that a part of the law ref
peftiug poft-offises and post-roads, would
expire fajfore the next feflion of Congress.
—Thistepdrt was reftrred to the commit
tee on the fubjedt of poft-offices and post
roads, t« report by bill or otherwise.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made a leport on the petition of
Jane Hardin, praying for compensation for
the maintenance of two Shawanefe Indian
girls, on accouut of the United States.
The report dates, that if the fads were as
mentioned, there is no need of legislative in
terference, as an application to the Secreta
ry of War, will be effectual. Of courfc no
decifioa of the house was necessary on the
Feport.
On motion of Mr. Sewall, the house
went into a committee of the whole, on the
bill making an additional appropriation to
provide and fuppcrt a naval armament, Mr.
Dent in the chair, when, the bill having
been read,
Mr. "3cwall moved to fill . the *P* [f
prrtpriating money for the pay an " .
ci«. for the term of one of he of. rel
fleers and crews, with 2 I 6,679 u " "'
Some objection. had beep made t. the f>n« «
at which the tat ion. had been fixcd ' v '. P
the fubjrft wa« formerly before the H • P
He had, inconfeq,ence.madeenqu,,K on ed
the fub«a, and had been informed that 28 fc
center ration was the Weft price at wh.ch th
thev could be obtained. _
Mr. Gallatin a(ked, whether the gentle- C
'man', enquiry had extended to th* _ price
paid for rations to the troops ftat!o,ied in the
forts, other, than those on fn » n, ' e '*' .
The contrafl for these would be the belt da- er
ta for the price to be allowed in th^ a[e - .
Mr. St wall did not think it neftffary to .n
make thil esquiry.
The qu'eftion was put and ca"ied.
Mr. Sewall then moved to fill the blank
to defray ihe wear, losses, expenditures o. m
ammunition, and other contingent ex- t
pences, with 63,7®0 dollars. r.
Mr. Gallatin said, the estimate before fe
him fer contingent expences was6o,ooodol- w
lars. There were 3,700 dollars for othbr tl
fpecifie purposes, vil. for the salaries of g,
clerks, and for the rent of the naval yards at a:
different places. He thought it would be v.
best to distinguish betwixt contingent ex- I
pences and salaries, and also whether the a
clerka were authorized by law, or whether ti
they were established by this bill. If the c
efiicers were already eftablilhed, the salary o
would be provided by law ;if not, th* l* w c
(hould be palled to eitablifli the office. t
Mr. St wall said, that whilst there re
mained en hand materials which had been t
pnrchafed for the use of the frigates at New- c
York, Portsmouth and Norfolk, it would \
be necessary to have persons there to tajce v
care of them, H« supposed the clerks were t
authorised by law. . 1
Mr. Gallatin said, if the clerks were c
authorized by law, their falafies would be I
included in the ordinary appropriations; he
therefore movftl to fill the blank with I
§o,coo dollars, as the items which were I
mentioned separately, could not properly be f
included under the head of repairs and con
tingent expeiices of the naval armament, as 1
this related to the three frigates only, and
not to the taking care of any materials on
band. '
Mr. J. Parker hoped this motion would
be agreed to, and the* other withdrawn.
The clerks employed at the places which
had been raightat present be ne
cessary; but he thought fomeprovifionought
to be made with refpedt to the disposal of
these materials, in order to do away the ne
cessity ofemploying persons tp take care of
them.
Mr. Sewall withdrew his motion, a«d
' that far filling the blank with 6c,0i0 was
carried.
Mr, Gallatin then moved to add the fol
io wing, words, " alfo,that a fuui not exceed
ing 2,200 dollars, ta pay the salary of per
' sons having charge of the «a,val yards at N.
" York, Portsmouth arid Norfolk, and the
5 rents of the fame," which motion was car
ried*
Mr. Varnam moved to strike out the
words "far sea, with all convenient speed."
* Hg ito&l'lrfcffl'tfie Tugatettolea, at
" any rate, with all convenient speed, though
" the occasion for doing this might flepeld
> upo« some future consideration.
Mr. Isaac Parker laid, the only natural
' eonftrudtion of these words was, as to the
manner in which the vessels were to be e
' quiped. It did not follow, that when they
" were equipped, they would be sent to sea,
except there was a necessity for it.
Mr. J. Williams thought the words im
> material; if they would produce any effedt
' in accelerating the business, he thought
3 they ought to be retained, as all allewed it
J had heretofore been fuflciently tardy.
e Mr. Gallatin said, the law of la(l ftffion
" went *0 farther than to diredt the vessels to
'' "be " manned and employed wh«rea3 this
" bill, though only makiag an additional ap
propriation to enable the PreGdent to carry
* the formeV law iato effedt, feemcd to go far
' ther. It appeared to diredt, that they
0 (hould "be equipped for sea with all conve
r aient speed," whilst the former law left it to
the diferetion of the President to employ 1
them as he pleafcd. 1 If it were widled that
the business ftiould be left oa its former foot
ing, these words might with propriety be
ftruak owt; because, after the money was
appropriated, the President might use what
v speed he pleased in equipping. tUe vessels.
Mr. Harper said, it would seem that the '
gentleman fro» Pennsylvania did not know
- the difference bet wees preparing the vessels
r for sea, and employing them after they are
, prepared. He was persuaded, however, he
- did know the difference. Though that
% house had not the power to diredt how the
s vessels fhpuld be employed, yet they could
J diredt them to be prepared with all conve
nient speed. It was the business of that
'- house to prepare, and <»f the PreGdent to
r employ 5 but the object of this motion went
*- to (hew that they were both the fame thing,
d Much complaint had been made, aid justly,
i. at the great delay which had taken place in
:- this business, and he could now fee no ob
ft jedtion, therefore, to directing them to be
equipped with all convenient speed. When
if they were equipped, the PreGdent would
f use them in fucb a way as the state of the
ir country (hall require. If the legislature
11 ohofe to put the eountry in a state of war,
J. the vessels would be employed accordingly ;
is or if it remained in peace their employment
1- would acgord with such a state. He hop
-- ed therefore, the words would be retained,
o Mr. Sewall said, the fame words were
e contained in the refolutien upon which the
bill was founded, and in the aft of 1796, a
fc similar cxpreffion was used. He thought
e the gentleman from Pennsylvania had not
o fufficiently attended to the diftinft appro
iv priations contained in the bill.
S Mr. Day ten (the Speaker) said the law
of last feCorv *ent farther than it was con
.
, 0Tp 1,.« bytoMUtogo. «
•« equip far lea with all Tpeed,
related' Oily to the manner in which the
vessels were to be equipped, as it was well
known that equipping for sea, and eqmp
ping for guard (hips (which was the fo.e
purpof* for which some gentlemen had with- m
ed them to be employed) was wholly <Jit- b<
fcrent The law of last fefion went to iay p(
they (honldbe manned and employed, which t ;
he believed, with the gentleman from S. c ]
Carolina, was an unnecefTary and improper „
dirtotion, as the President of the United t(
States, being the commander in chief, was t:
the the only proper judge of' the manner of ],
employing them.
Mr. Thatcher did not thiak that direft
ing t/he velTels to be equipped with all conve- v
nient speed, indicated any great haste, but
the contrary. b
Mr" Varntim 1 said, gentlmen ha<3, on for- p
mer occalions been very tenacious of giving 5
the President diretlion; ho-v he (hould adl, f,
He was unwilling to do it on the tne pre- v
sent occ.tfioo ; and he thought if these words ;
were ft ruck out, no one would understand t
that the frigates were ta be fitted out as ]
guarJ-Jh'ips. But if the bill was agreed to
as it now flood, he was of opinion that it a
would appeav to their constituents, that the t
Legislature believed the crisis was arrived ,
at which it was necessary to sent out frigates
to sea against a foreign nation. If this peri- t
cd was arrived, he wished it to be declared J
openly, and not in any fideway. Such a
claufts way veiy unusual in an appropriation (
bin. . 1
Mr. Gallatin believed it was pcrfeotly
true, as stated by the gentleman from Maffa- .
chufetts, that woids of this kind were ne
ver inserted when an appropriation was onl)
wan ed. In the law of 1796, he admitted J
that similar words were tifed, and, there they
were proper, because that was a law for the
conftruftion and equipment of the frigates ,
but in all the subsequent laws, which were
merely appropriation laws, no such words
had been used. This was not intended to
fay that the moneyJheald it granted with all
convenient speed. 'He believad, iincc they
were t6 be equipped, the fooncr they were
done'the better ; but he did not think it pro
per to insert such a clause in an appropria
-1 tiou bill.
Mr. Bayard thonght the gentleman from
I Pennsylvania made a nice diftin&ion with
■ out a difference. He admitted that if the j
bill was for conftru&ing the frigates, such
■ words might be proper, but that in an ap
: propriation bill they were improper- He
f saw no difference between the two cases ;
- and if it was the of the Hoafe to have ;
F the frigates equipped speedily, it was cer- 1
tainly not improper to fay so, and in hi»
1 opinicfn the situation of the country requir
s ed that every exertion should be made in
the business. i
The question was then taken on striking
• out tfye words, " with all convenient speed"
• (the mover having agreed to exclude the
• words " for sea" from his motion) and was
e negatived 47 to 38.
The committee then rose, the house a
greed to the amendment, and the bill was
6 ordered to be engrossed for a third reading
" to-day were mentioned for the
I firfl: taken on thT'mofl eiiltant" iday, and ne-1
h gatived 43 to 42. It was accordingly order
d ed to be read a third time this day, Before
the heufe rose, it received its third reading
and passed, therebeing $7 votes in its favour
e Mr. J. Parker proposed a resolution to
" dire&ing the committee which
Y had been appointed to enquire into the ex- :
'• penditureof the money heretof#re appropri
ated for a Naval Armament, and into the
l " causes of delay which had taken place, to
enquire and report what materials remain j
II on hand which will not be wanted for the j
' three fiigates now nearly finifted, designa
ting what the articles are, an<f where they
a . are ; and also what materials have been
0 disposed of, which was agreed to.
18 On motion of Mr. N. Smith, the house
>_ went into a committee of the whole on the
y bill fupplemeatary to, and in alteration of
r * the aft for the relief of persons imprifwied
y for debt, when the bill having been read,
Mr. J. Williams moved to ftrijee out the
0 firft feftion of the bill. He was persuaded
Y that if this bill passed, it would be very in
lC jurious to the revenue, and in the end pre
judicial to the fair trader, for if such a law
,c had been in bting the last year, government
lS would have 101 l half a million of money, and
11 if such losses were sustained, it would lead
to the pafiiug of laws which woulrlbe inju
le rious to commerce. It became the house
J* to ba cautious, therefore, in making altera
ls tions which might so matei ially affeft the
re revenues of the union ; especially as the de
le bentures given by the Custom house must
" be allowed, whether the duties are ipaid or
18 not.
This motion was negatived without a
s " division.
After the bill had undergone several a
niendments, one of which was to provide
U that the benefits of this law shall not ex
?' tend to persons imprisoned for debts due
for money by them received for, or on ac
count of the United States, the . committee
3 rose, and had leave to fit again.
Mr. Clopton, from the committee of En
■" rolment, reported as duly enrolled, the bill
to amend the a£ laying a duty on stamped
lc vellim, parchment and paper, and the bill
re for relief of Sylvanus Crowell.
r ' Adjourned till Monday.
p 1 For Sale,
d. By Elliston tsf John Perot,
re -M 4 1 1 Nartb IV Her Stmt,
|j e London particular Madeira Wine, ia pipti *nd
quart r cafics, 4 yiart old led fit for immediate oft.
Inferior do.
ht A few bales AllibiJ ColTes
ot Bandanna Handkerchiefs
O- Sail Canvass, No. ],to9
A few bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel oi Soal Leather, a.id
A few bax.t of China.
n " march 3 tu&f4w
CONTINUATION OF
Latest Foreign News. tl
LONDON, December 26. , 1 , 1
Letters from Stutgard, by the last man
mentioned, that th« Princess of Wirtem-
bet g proceeded in her pregnancy in the roo:i
perfett healthand spirits, much to the fa-
tisfawion of the reigoing Duke ar.d Dut
chefs, as well as that of the royal Conforf,
who now look forward in hopes of an heir
to the Ducal D-oiwnions, both the Heredi
tary Prince's chydren, by his late Contort,
being £
January 6.
If the example of FJanders and H'jHand 1
will not deter the Swiss from embracing the
definitive fraternity of France, they must
be left to tbw fate, as a people too dull to
profit by the |eftoM of experience. As tie
Swiss, however, are a simple and aa unof
fending race, the World/ cannot <-«t look c
with 1 egret on the misery that feenns impend- '
their heads, and which the ambi
tion and rapacity of prance arc but too like- f
ly to let fall.
Letters from the Hague inform us, that
all the (hips fit for fervicc arc again alftm- r
bli«g in the Texel to form a squadron to J
consist of fix ships of the line, two of fifty
guns, and eight frigates, mounting from 44
to 26 guns —three pjeked men are to be ta- c
ken from every company of Isfautry of the r
Dutch National Regiments, to be embarked
on board this flotilla. We art allured that
this expedition is intended for India.
M. de Liaocourt, lately in America, now '
at Hamburg, has refuted several charges a- '
gainst him, made by an historian of Louis
the last. .
Buonapartt's letter to the Direftory, an
nouncing the liberation of 18 Frenchmen
from slavery by the Bey of Tunis, is a fe- ,
vere satire upon his ewn infamous conduit
j a Jelling the Austrian soldiers whom he cap- J
tured in Italy to the government of Spain,
to,perpetual slavery in the mines ia Ameri
ca. Such- is the love of liberty, and fueh
the coniaftency of the Gallic Champion ®f
Frtldpm,
London Gazette—January 9.
The Mermaid frigate has captured the
L'Aventure of L'Orieat, mounting 12
1 guns, and carrying 190 men.
The Latona, has taken the French priva
: ) trer L'Aigle of 14 guns and 63 men, and
1 L'lntripidite of 18 guns and 83 men.
; LONDON, January 16.
; Copy of a letter from captain Reynolds, of bis ma
• : fcflj*fhip La Pomane, to Evan Nrpean EJq.
Plymouth Sound, Jan. 14.
I beer ta acquaint you, tor the information of
1 my lords commiffiontrs of the ad-niralty, thar
" in the nighrof the 16th ult. I loft Company with
1 the Phoebe, in a very heavy gale of wind at VV.
i S. W. which came on the lith, anfl continued
j blowing strong without intermiffien until the.
» 14th, and, though the violence of the gale then
e abated, still it blew from the weft: that with
every polfible exertion we were unible to ger
* farther to the weftwird than 19 degrees of lon
{ gitude before the jiftiilt. :he<«ay on which my
'• limitedtime for cruising on the ground prcferib
>l ed fc their lordlhips expired,
jr On the jft inftait I edged a -vay to tbe' east
. ward, and on the jth, at it o'clock in the night,
r _ 1 u—» ■ll i'*" " *"
'ea aTTrge (hip, standing under easy fail td the
!N. W. rinftantly give chace, and foou got
" ; elafe alongside of her ; for it being thLk hazy
C weather, (be was deceived in our ttrength, and
g (hrtink not from the action, but had the temeri
ir ty to exchange several hroadiidts withus before
0 Ihe ealled out for quarter ; in which we ha t
one mau killed and four wounded. Having
i fh fied the prisoners, and our carpenter plugged
up eight thdt-holei Ihe had received between
'* j wind and water, we were about to take her in
e low (for her mizen-mait was foot away, and
0 Ihe was utterly disabled to carry auy failjt wheß
[1 : the officer on bfard bailed us, and said {he wad
e I finking. I sent all out 1 boats to her assistance
( immediately, and Ending ao efforts ceuld five
her, had but J"uft time to draw our men and their
V wounded from her, when she funk ali-ng-fiic of
n us. She proved to be the Cheri, from Nantz,
carrying long twelve, eighteen, and twenty
e four pounders (mixed) upon her main deck,
c and 230 men, commanded by Mortf. Cluffin ;
jf had been out fourteen day», and taken nothing :
j She k»d n men killed and ia wounded ; among
ths latter was the captain,whs, with two others,
died of their wounds the nextdav.
le On Tuesday evening, the Ediyflone bearing
d N. E. )i leagues, [ captured a little privateer,
i- from Rofco, called the Emprunt Forcee; had
e only two Haill carriage guns, fix swivels, and
*5 men on board. She had been out but one
)t day, and had taken nothing.
■ Our reair! mast and fereinaft being wounded,
and both ef them -fiihed, and much of tht stand
" ing rigging so it is necessary ts re
-- place it, I thought it would be expediting the
c service to steer for this port, instead of
Falmouth ; and I hope my having done f« will
ie meet their Lordship's approbation.
of a letter from tbe Hon. Capt St off or J, of
ft ■ bu MajeJlj sfhip Phxton, to Admiral Lard
Bridpor*.
At Sea, December 31.
My Lorb—On the ag:h instant, his majef
-1 ty|j ship under my command captured a French
brig privateer of 14 fix-pounders, called the
l- Hazard, and a!fo a SpaaiQi merchant vessel, from
le Nantes, bound ta St. sei»aftian, laden with
fun try articles of mefehandize.
The former (by whom I fend this letter) fail
ed from La Rochelle twenty-four hours beiore
her captui e, and was proceeding 011 a ciuizeto
:e the foivhwxrd ; the Utter being small, and of
.little value, I destroyed.
1. 1 he Aufon parted company the fame night,-
H in chace of a faip that had the appearance of a
:d ColT ette, and I have not seen her fir.ee.
ill _ January 17.
Le Republicain Paris paper of the Bth
inftar.t Rates, that the greatest precautions
hid been taken by the government to pre
vent the secret of the measure relative to
. Englifi merchandize from transpiring be
> fore its execution.
The law enafts, that every contravener
(hall be arrefled and pursued before the tri
bunal of corredlional police. Bciides th«
connfcation of the goods seized, the delin
quent is to be condemned to a fine as triple
the value of the objefls seized, and to im
prisonment, which cannot be left than five
days,- nor more than five months. The
coHfifcstiun it ta be for ths benefit o£ the
fiizers, and all .We who w aiding in ft. •
•The English merchandize ?.t
Paris during th« late fea'rcii i*efti mated at
three mi!W*. Although it is indisputable
that one of the molt powerful means cf re
dwcing our tenacious enemy is tc prevent the
circulation of their merchfndixe, v.-e can
not help wishing that the measures purfuH
for the attainment pi this obje(?t were such
as may tend mort to prevent the intfoduj*
tion of the merchandize in question, than
to seize them when they are introduced,
Bcfides the inconvenience of ipquifiteriai
visit» which the latter mode occasion*, it is
clear that it does more injury to our fellow
citizens than our enemy, whiWiave received
the price of tlie goods arretted.— Thus far
Le RepuUirnin.
Letters from Hamburgh, received by
the last mail advise, that though similar or
ders bad not then been given by the magis
trates of that city, they were daily expedt
ed ; and it is generally believed, that the
tcirorilt, Leonard Bourdon, who has been
lent to that city and to all the fita port ; '
towns on thje Baltic to caufc the recent pro
scription against the British trade to be car
ried into efteit, ii charged to deliver this
rr.aidate to the senate ; and probably also
to demand the expulsion of British (hips
from the port of Hamburgh. The pro
fsription of emigrants has already been ex
efcuted throughout Switzeiland with great
rigor.
A gentleman who is jtift arrived from
Cuxhaven states, that the inhabitants of
that place were coDcealiag their property,
and taking other precautionary measures,
expelling the French troop* to pofliefs
themselves of it in the course of a few days.
Some Dutch papers to a reeent date have
reached town, which concur i"i nfierting
that the king of Pruflia, who, it i« under
load, expeds ultimately to be put in pof
feflion of Hamburgh, is determined not to
oppose the system of fpoilation which Las
bren agrteJ upon between the Emperor and
' the French republic, the former of whom
has already posted a num?fou9 body of
r troops in the eleftorate of Bavaria.
The admiralty and the French dire&ory< jSf|
have agreed, that the Englilh prisoners in
, France fliall in future be attended by Eng.
li(h surgeons, and French prisoners by their
own lurgeoas in this country. We are gU4
. to find this arrangement has induced the ad
j miralty to fill up the appointment* to France
(consisting of fix surgeons) from the nary
lift : and farther as an encouragement t«
surgeons and mates to come into the navy,
. all appointments to the fiek and wounded
board, dock-yards, hospitals, phyficiaas to
fleets, hospitals, &c. are, without excep
f tion, to be filled up in future from the lift
of navy surgeons,. which, in addition to the
r arrangements now under the'eonfideratioa of
d the lords of the admiralty, and the sick and
c wounded board, will no doubt isduae many
n young men to turn their thoughts to the ni
h vy, who before fought the army, India,
' T and even merchant service, in preference ta
the navy—The intention of the admiralry
is to reeemraend, as far as the natire of the
services will admit, to put the surgeons of
t_ the navy on a footing with the army, a
t, measure that no doubt will be confiuired
All young men who. are qualified,afterfix
1 months servitude as surgeons' mates, are to
he made surgeons in the navy ; a regulation
that will prevent the navy being so diftreiT
re ed as has lately been the cafe, and reflefts
i t the highest credit on lord Spencer and his
ig colleagues.
It is generally believed, that there will
: n be a competition for the enfuiyg loaa.
id Three parties are mentioned, viz. the faane
gentlemen who have fubferibed for the last
aa four loans, a general lift of bankers and a
re lift under the conduct of the bank dire&ors
' e —But no time is yet appointed for fixing
u . the loan, nor is it rxpeded to take place
1,1 till the latter end of next month,
z.
January 18.
; Lieutenant Hollingfrvorth, whofc (hip
was cnt out of the Downs by two French
>£ row-boats, and carried into Boulogne, died
'*> of his wounds soon after he was landed.
He and his crew were taken by surprise,
'* the French boats having muffled their oars
l( j as they approached the fliip, fa as not to be
id heard. They fought manfully, but were
ie at length obliged to submit to numbers, af
ter an obstinate resistance.
d.
BASLE, December 2.
Yesterday evening three deputies from ths
0 f people of the Grifons pafled through this
ill city, in great haste, ou their way to Raftad:
to general Buonaparte. From tlfera, as well
of as from private letters that have been rcceiv
-d ed, it appears that a great change has taken
place in that country. All the-communes
of the Grifons have afiembled and chofea
150 deputies; the firft aft of whom has
" ' been to fupercede the ola government, and
confute the members of the Extraordinary
th Council of State to their houses. Sallis
Duchfreio, the head of the Arillocratic
f party has been banished.
re The objeft of the million of the Deputie*
from the people of the Grifons to General
0 Buonaparte, is, to procure the Valteline to . <
be united to the country of the Grifons and .
a offer the general any fatisfaftion.
DUBLIN, December 15.
th betters received in town on Thurf&J
ns from the couuty vt Cork state, that betr
e- ween one and two hundred (land of arms :
to (of French ssaniJfa&ure) with slarge quan
le- tity of ball cartridge, had been discovered
and taken by the military-in the neighbour
icr hood of Imokily ; the arms are supposed to -
ri- have been brought to the Southern coaftby
he a neutral velT;I which lately arrived 'hercy
in- and wai at the time suspected of claade&ne
>le intercourse with facae of the inhabitants,
m- The fame letters add, that thirteen per
ive sons l>ad been taken into custody in that p«rt
he of the country, and committed to prifoi
he charges High Treafan - —-o ne f>rprlfouers i* Lid to be a man of wriideraUr
property.
LONDON, Dec. a.
DESCENT on ENGLAND.
The meant of obtaining ten nilH-.ns of livres,
for the ccnJlruß'ion of a thousand er mire
Shan a thousand gun-beats.
Pitt proposes t<» raise the sum of seven
million.-sterling (161 millions Toumois) for
the year 1798, by tripling the assessed taxes
According to his calculation, there are in
Eagland 11400,000 houses. The number
of pef&wß upon -whom taxes fall, it>< hiding
men, women, and children, he eftimatuß at
ab«rut seven millions and a half. He fays,
that, of 1,400,060 houses, about seven or
right hundred thousand pay assessed taxes;
the others being miserable cottages, pay no
thinp at all : the seven millions, therefore,
he proposes to raise by tripling the
jfieffetT taxes, will fall at the rate of ten
pounds sterling (240 livres Teurnois) upon
each house He fooliftily Relieves that this
resource is fufficiant ta prevent France from
making a defeent.
Having thus stated the question on one
fide, it remains to treat it in the other point :
of view, in which it ought to be coniidered i
by this country-.
Our objeft at present is a d<fc«*t: there
is no other made by which to subdue the
English government, and to put an end to
its tyranny. We are in poffcjionof all the
requisite means, except that of passing the i
little arm of the sea that separate. France;
from England. But, as our objetft is not to ;
umbat the English fleet, but to tjcape it, onr
mode of tfavigating-ought to be such as that !
rhe English leet cannot obftrn& our voy
age
Every one knowsthat there aretwo mode,
of navigation—failing and rowing. We 1
also know thatveffelswi'th fails mufl regulate
tjieir course fey the wind ; but, that hosts :
with oars may be moved iu every (Hre&ion, j
and with the greatest- facility, when there is !
no wind at all. j
Thus the mpft certain, and the lead ex- '
pen five means of pading irrro StighTnj,~in"l
spite at the Engliih fleet, are to employ
revv-boats, having a small fail, like the
Dutch fifhiyg-boats, to serve upon oecafi
on.
If the French coasts were five or fix hun
dred leagues difcant from those ef England,
it would be very ridiculous to talk of row
boats ; but in many places, there are no '
more than eight, ten or twelve leagues be
tween them ; and so the mod diflant parts
where we could think of making adefcent, f
there are no more than forty or fiftv leagues, |i 1
which may be passed in forty-eight hours, i 1
even without the aid of fad., on the fuppo- ' 1
fition that the boats can row at the rate of I I
a league an hour. ,
The Ruffians transport their troops in <
nw-boats across the Black Sea. The
Swedes transport their's. in the fame man
ner, to the most distant part 6 of the Swed
ish empire. The Ruffian can tranf- !
port two or three hundred soldiers each, and '
fix men ire pnt upon one oar. But for 3
making a descent upon England, boats of a c
smaller size ought to be preferred—The sea I
on many parts of the English coast does
not often i«n r i-- I
therefore, go close in (hore, and the troops
land as easily as persons step out of a vrber- r
nr.
The espence of the English navy for the
year 1798. according to Pitt's budget, is 1
12,500,000!. sterling, or 300,000,000 of a
livres Tournois. To aover this enormous 8
expence,- he proposes to triple the assessed
taxes, whieh will trffce, at an average, 240
livres from each family. France wants on- ,j
ly 1000 gun-boats, which will cost no more 1
than ten millions Tournois. To raise. this d
sum, no new impost is neceflary : it will be :1
better to obtain it by patriotic gifts.
Citizen Villeri,has already listed, in the
Council of Five Hnndred, that many per- t j
sons had expressed their desire of contribul- ti
ing voluntarily to the expence of a defceat t)
ipan England. I love the patriotic spirit f
of these worthy citizen. ; and as I desire to v
contribute my mite towards this important
measure, I have contrived a plan which will
enable every citizen to participate in the r,,
honar of destroying a government, which,
for more than a century,has been the fcoargc
of the human race. '
The sum I would propose to raise by pa- a '
triotic gifts is, ten millions of livres, ta be "
employed, undet the dire&ion of the ga
verument, in building a thousand, or more, r
gun boats. » al
As it i 9 better rather to under rate than m
to exaggerate our means iu a calculation of
■thjs kind, I shall estimate the population of w
France at only 25,000,000 though her in
crease of territory must make the number an
considerably greater. I believe it will be he
found, that the men of twenty and upwards re
form about one fifth of this population ; lei
that is to fay, 5,000,000. One half of P a
these five millions, 2,500,000, I shall Cup- ll "
pose, are the industrious poor, from whom J f
the will rtiuft betaken for the deed: I di- an
vide, then,_the remaining two millions and I>a
a half into two classes of 250,000 each,and pa
and four classes of 500,000 each. The de
greatest patriotic gift, according to my cal- rs '
cuktioii, fliould be 12 livres, and the small
est 20 sols. Each person should have the
liberty of causing his name to be inferibed j n
in any class he may think proper. If a ci- m<
tiztn of small fortune wishes ta inferibe his
name in the firft. class, and a rich man in that of
of>>2o sols, they ought both to be permitt- ; co '
ed to-do so :it is equality of rights, not of i "
fortune,which is the real principle off quality. I J
7ABLE
OF THE CLASSES AND 1 HEtR RESPECTIVE ,
*ROt)UCE e ~
Clafipi. Number nf Ptrfoftt. IndividvtlGiflt.Tatallivrrs ' of
1 250,000 12 3,000,000 th<
2 250,000 6 1,500,000' p»
3 500,000 5 2,506,000 th;
4 - 500,000 3 1,500,000 am
5 500,000 2 1,000, coo bis
6 500,000 l " 500,000 th<
. Pt
Total,3,soo,oooPerfcns. k'vrt., 1 0,000,c00 it'
a'bit The average rats of th*ff pat riot i- gll
s-4 iiyres a hr*d. That of Mr. Pitt', trip
taxes is, 240 livres.
The we*keft part ot the English domii
ions is England itfelf. It isTar lef. difficu
to land 1-0,000 men in England, than t
mre fend io.ooc to the Eaft-ladits.
1 roops ftrnt to India mn(t be erabaike
rven on board trnnfport, of two or three hundre
tor tons burthen each, and ships of the line mill
xes he employed fur their convoy. An Eflfflif
? m Squadron may block up the portt in whic
.ber such an expedition is preparing ; and if, b
ling any change of wind.tlie transport. fliould b
* at e " ah,rd <he fquadron coul,
sys, also avail itfelf of the advantage of this win(
1 or and follow the convoy ; A.- the voyage i
e*' ' nn £> 11 IS possible they might overtake* on
no- fleet.
>re, But a descent on England is a very differ
toe j ent thing. Efaoce. by the union of Bel
ten gmm, has now a great extent of ceaft to
pon ; wards the north, where ts»e stores, both ii
tins | France and England, are very low. Th(
om sea is so very shallow that flrps of the Km
cannot approajh within some miles, as is tin
»ne cafe at Dunkirk. The descent ought to b,
.int made with gun-boats, drawing no mor,
red vhantwo or three feet water, and where, ii
! a moment, the whole force could be landet
iere on the coast of England.*
the ! These light boat, should have a small fai
to : like the fiw boat., and a great numbe
the of oar». They might perform the paffag,
the j in less than 48 hours, in fpiteofthe Englift
ncc j squadron., because. by means of oars, they
to I could a (lift the wind so mueh, that although
»nr | there were an English fleet in ;he Channel,
hat . it could not interrupt their pa%ein thefev:
Jy " j 'eceffary to crass and land. Confi
(er, hefides, that a thousand rnn-hoats.
Ve | able PO, "" derS ' ,V 8 r « I P«A
ate j It may be said that the Engli/h mav like
»ts j wife have gun boats : but these vessels not
>n, , being calculated to keep the sea long, can
:is ! only be ufeful for a coup Je main. The En
j gnfh then would be obliged to-keep them
( in their harbours.
in ! The English coast, which is oppoflte to
oy n«, presenting a landing place in eve«r
e point, it is impossible to know at what point
si- the descent will be made, so that these vef-
Ws would be bosh useless and expenfive'.
n- France can always know where the the En
d, glifh vessels sre Rationed, fhile England
«an never knew where the descent will be
no attempted.
! e " »_ L r. THOMAS PAINE.
' 8 ri Oanes and the Jutes, who so long
it, [ desolated England, always chose vfrith fuc
:.,i| «ef. these northern coasts far their expedi
s, | tions. It was from a fear efinvafion from
0- : this quarter, that the English so lo«g in
jf filled an the harboor «vf Dunkirk being fil
ed up, and so violently opposed the f'jrren
in der of Belgium,
ae
1- declaration of M D'ANTRAIOUFS.
J. "On the 3th«fAuguft 1797,1efcaped from
f- ! he French head-quarters at Milan, after hav
|d mp in vain waited in the expefiati«n that Gen.
Luonaparte would tell me why T am a rested,
and or wfe;,t I was aceufed. I mijtht have es
caped before, but I would not, because I faolifh
;a ly thought that reason and joftice still exided.
:s _ " Buonaparte gave erderi for my arrest, tho'
ne rrench ppflport, required me to give my p*-
I c.e, or threatened to confine me in a dungeon
in the Ci'.adel.
e "In giving my parole, I knew it was ofeiefs,
is and so did h«. for he surrounded me with spies,
,f andfent my piflure to the watches of ail the
1S gates of Milan.
that I fhonld be discharged, and fixed the period.
\t firft I was weak enough to believe ; b«t I
did mot like to part from iny wife and child.—
e At length I desired permission to apply to the
s dire<9ory, and to be conduced to P.iris. H»
e then gave mt his lionoui, that he would not go
to Udma without setting me at liberty.
e "On the 14th of Anguft I wrote ta the di
rectors, and the presidents yf the councils. On
the 57th Buonaparte fi-.t •{T without attending
- to my request. It was then that I escaped fr m
t this tyrant. 1 expected >0 be retaken, and to
t but my duty called upon me to end'ci
3 vourto save myfelf.
t " With refpeifl to the papers found in nny
■ port-folio, I knew there was nothing in them
that indicated any thing like conspiracy ; but i
e fee such use has been attempted te lie made of
, them, and I wili not ftnehon it by my fileii'ce
e "lami Frenchman, an emigrant, s royalist ;
l am become a tubjedi of tho Emperor nf Rtrfii.
. and am in h sfervice, and 1 never wiil return
, to republican Ftance. Of all the parties 111 -u
ihcrity, Ido not agree with one. I believe
their obj«(9 .» more-to acquire authority thin to
> rsftore Louis XVIII ; and 1 detest eanftitution
al Fiance in 1792, as much as republican France
1 m 1795-
p "M. Buonaparte, in the thirtt if paaer Wt
p which he ii poffdTed, and to further his own
ambition, determined ts support his Trfimvir
ate, and .deflroy the council of five hundred
and particularly Pichcgrn. For that purpose,
' he pretended to disc »ver that I carritd on a car
i refpondence with Louis XVIII. und that he had
leiied that correfpoiideiue 1 defy M. Banna
" parte to prove that lever had any correfpon
dcnce with any member of the council of .
hundred, or witn any in nifler, (i .ee the crea «
tio" of the republic. In the mean time I fe»ii
an inventory of the conteiAs of this faoiou*
port-folio, and 1 defy them so product another
paper except thnfe which I itare. I sent this
declaration he feconJ day »f my flight, har
rsffed, fatigued and opprcflcd with anxiety for
my wife and soD, who were left at Milan, ex
posed ta al! the fury of Huonaparte. But 1
would not lose a moment indeftroyingthepl.it
in which they wanted to inike me an inllru
inent.
" In a short time I will publifll the ms mnrnl
of what pafled in my captivity j but I muff
] continue myjou ney, in order to find an afyluiri
; in whicli 1 can coiled my idea?.
■ (Signed) " The Count D'Astkaioubs."
'Se liHttono, ,'uy.
AnotherdeclaraWon bas just been publifli
ed by Fauthe Borel, Ptioter to the King
of Prussia at Neufchattl, said to be one of
the principaftagent. that carried on a corrcf
' pondence with Pichegru It is stated in
that paper, that he is the father of a family,
and continually occupied with the carfs of
bis bufitiefs. Knowing how to appreciate
the blefiings of living in a country which
Providence has hitkertobleffed by prefervfng
it during all those tempeftj which have agi- \
'" »
>;:« taled Eurepe, a>td taking wo ffiare 10 pMi
ple tics except that general sympathy which e
very man must feel for the calamities of hi»
in- fellow creatures, " T was far (fays he) from
niti fufpefting that they would make nfe of mv
to nam* as a performerin a conspiracy of which
so much has been said. Is this conspiracY
ed ■true, or not ? Tdo not knt»w, nor can I ef
ed tablifh myfelfas a judge j but T hire a riijlit
11ft to contradidt the lvirg assertion of my hav
ifh ing borne a part in it, or of being connect
ch ed with mm whom I have not the honor of
by even being known to.
he " According to the papers found in the
i'd portfolio of count d'Antrjpigues, containing
nd hit converfntion with the Cotint de Montgail
is lard, Hated to have taken place in Dece'i
ur ber, 1796, it is dated that my fanaticifm
being known, he threw lyi eyes upon me as
?r a proper agent ; that I carried letters from
tl- the Prince de Cu«de to General Pichegru,
•- and that lam Printer to .the Count d'An
in traigues and the Count de Montgaillard—
ie This is the charge againfl me, founded upon
a P a per I never saw, and attributed to the
he Countd'Antraigues, without being acknnw
be ledged either by him or the Count de Mont
re gaillard. I fbould not conceive myfelf bound
to asfwer a charge fa founded, if I did
not conceive myfelf bound in honour not
to luffer my name to be made use of against
nl men whom I never knew. Without noti
er t'«hg the absurdities a.id the contractions
of this charge, I (hall confine myfelf only
ih to that part which relates to myfelf.
T " I therefore declare, firft, that I never
th saw or knew the Count d'Antraigues ; that
•I. I never was his Printer ; and that if I fold
» any of his works, it was in the fame manner
l^at I those of other perfon3. I also
s, deny having any knowledge of M. de Mont
gaillard, or ever having been his printer.
My father, who was eltablifced at Ham
e- burgh, had advanced fomc money to Ma
't dame de Montgaillard, and her husband Was
n to repay me ; I saw him in 1795 "P on 'h' B
i- bvifinef», a#d met him twice in going from
n Frankfort to Hamburgh, where my business
called me. ( In the beginning of 1797 he
0 paid me, and from that time I never saw
y him ; and, thirdly, that I Hever carried
't letters from the Prince de Conde, the Count
de Montgaillard, or any ether persons, to
:• General Pichegru, to wfiom I never spoke,
- and of whom I have not the lead know
d ledge."
He concludes with begging, that, in fu
ture, thofa who are going to write Hifto
riesor Romances, will have the goodaefs
? not to make use of his nam#. 1
BUONAPARTE, !
1 TO HIS ARMY. 1
Head-Quarters, at Milan,
24 Brumaire—Nov. 14. '
Soldi Err, \
I leave you to-morrow, to repair to Raf
tadt—ln separating myfelf from the army, \
I can only be consoled by the hope of soon
finding myfelf again among you, struggling
against new dangers. e
. Whateversnterpriiethe governasent alHgns c
for the soldiers of the army of Italy, they a
will always prove themfelve theworthy sup- f
porters of the liberty and the glory of the
French name. a
Soldiers, when von speak of the (■ 0
whom you hav« c«nqirfrra—cfTSe people si
who owe to yon their libtrty—of tke bat- p
ties you have fought in two campaigus^—
add—ln two more campaigns, Ive /hall have 3
performed till greater atejievements. w
Buonapajsti. e
PARIS. January 18. .
The executive deretftnry has appointed
general Bernadotteambaffador of the French
republic, near-the court of Vienna. ti
Beraadotte is among the number of those ft
generals who have distinguished therofelvcs tr
at the head of our different armies, as in,ucli r
by their wildom as their valor j and have
(hewn their capacity to fill all places »f trust j P 1
j and confidence. He will have for fccretary if
of legation, ci'tizen Gaudin, who has alrea- d,
dy been employed in the diplomatic depart- r
ment.
The direftory feels the neceflity 'of aa- cc
eompaying this embassy to the feebnd po- &
wer of the continent, with splendor. His of
salary is fixed at i 44*000 livr~s (equal' to a
bout 29,000 dollars).
Citizen Boniface, keeper of the temple,
compiling of a report, propagated in the P (
'journals, of the marquis d' Arinjo having CC
permifiGon to walk out on his private affairs, pr
He declares 110 such order exists. ,
We are allured that the celebrated fctilp
tor Ceracchi, who was making the marble
'tattle of Buonaparte, has been murdered in 1
the mafiacrc at Rome. I(
The diet of Arrau, (in Switzerland)has
appointed two deputies to repair to Paris,
jne from the Canton of Zurich, Mr. Hir
zel ; the other from Schwitr, Mr. de Red- te
ing. They are ordered to demand the re- th
lewal ofthe perpetual alliance w j
==: A
IMR. FRANCI3,
SUBSCRIPTION BALL. ™ ;
The last this St*a jn, will be on Tuefdsy next.) g
MR. FRANCIS refpeiifully informs the T
Subfcrihers, that the iaft fubfeription B til m
>r this f'eafoß, will he on TtJESDAY the 10th
-f March -Ladies tickets to be had by applying
o the Btthfcribers, or Mr. Francis, No. 7.), I a
Jorth Eighth, ftrfeet. Notifubfcribers -tickets
0 be had of Mr. Francis, or at the AfleoAjy-
Kooin. -
Agreeable to the terms of the Selefl Subfcrip- wi
non Bails, Mr. ! raneisgivs one ext,*a Ball to --w
the Sub(ertbe« of the two Subfcriptims, to
' lose the season—Mr. F. w'.lhes the Smbfcriber.
bc particular in the last IUII ofthe Subfcrip
non, in or !er to make fu, h regufations for the "
extra Ball as they may deem proper and ne
ccfliry, to ihcluHe every eonvenience lud ele
gance which they may '* ifc to adopt. Tuuinn
as ufiial. Bo
N B. Due notice will be given of the last '»!
Prailifing Ball. Me
March 17. Sh.
—■ -- - . _ Ko
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few c'.eds of exei llent onality, for (ale, cttr
ltc. ef Se<md and Pine street*. Due 1
£ J X|)g m3ttte.
S! PHILADELPHIA,
AI ■■
MONBAY EVENING, MartL 19
i,t! 1 1
I*- ' The following message from the PreCdent of
■ the United State*, was read in the House
of | of Representatives this day.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
' C I Gentlemen if the House of Reprefentativet,
;jf I THE dispatches, from the Envoys Ei-
I traordinar)' of the United States to the
m French Republic, which were mention
-3S ed, in my meflage, to both Houses of
™ Congress, of the fifth instant, have been
n ' examined and maturely considered.
While I feel a fatisfaftion in inform
in ing you, that their exertions, for the ad
!c. juftmcnt of the differences, between the
t _ two nations, have been fincer; and un
,d remitted, it is incumbent on me, to de
id clare, that I perceive no ground of ex
petition, that' the objects of their mis
sion, can be accomplilhed, on terms!
, s compatible,with the fafety, honor, or the
y efiential interests of the nation.
This refulc, cannot with justice be at
[ tributed, to any want of rfioderation on
( j the part of this Government, or to any
r indisposition to forego, secondary inter
-0 efts for the prefervntion- of Peace.—
Knowing it to he my duty, and believing
~ it to be your wiih, as well as that of the
great body of the people, to avoid by all
s conc«ffions ariy participation
« in the contentions of Europe, the pow- !
? ers vefte.d in our Envoys,were comtnen
e mrate with a liberal and pacific policy, j
v and that high confidence, which might '
1 j'jftly be rcpolpd in the abilities patriot- j
( lfm and integrity ef the characters to
whom, the negociations was committed.
' After a careful review of the whole fub
jeft, with the aid of all the information
I have received, I can discern nothing,
| which could have irifured, or contributed
to, success, that has been omitted on rfiy
part, and nothing further which can be
attempted, consistently with maxims, for '
which our country has contended, at e- ■
very hazard, and which constitute the '
basis, of our national fovtreignty. v |
Under these circumstances I cannot for- 1
- bear to reiterate the recommendations,' <
I which have been formerly made, and to 1
exhort you, to adopt with promptitude, c
decision and unanimity, such measures 1
as the ample resources of the country as- c
ford, for the protection of our feafafing c
and commercial citizens; for the defence a
of anv exposed portions of our territory j c
for repleminingoiu* Arlcnals, eltabl lining [
foundries and military manufaftures ; s
and to provide such efficient revenue, as ?
will be necessary to defray extraordinary "
expences and supply the deficiencies,
which may beoccafionedby depredations «i
On our commerce. ' f
The prdent state of things, is so efien- ti
tially differentj f-om that, in which in- a<
ftruftions were given to collectors to res- n.
train veflejs of the United States from P'
j failirig in an armed condition, that the si
| principle, on which those orders were
issued, has ceased to exist. I therefore a '
deem it proper to inform Cougrefs, that !h
Ino longer conceive myfelf juftifiable in m
continuing them, unless in particular ca- "
fes, where there may bereafonable ground f«
of suspicion, that such veflels are inten
ded to be employed contrary to law. ,h
In all your proceedings, it will be im- "
portant to manifeft a zeal, vigor and §<
concert in defence of the national rights,
to the danger, with which J
they are tlireatwied. v *
JOHN ADAMS.
United States,
19 March, 1798. 3 ar
la
•Appointments,
John Qm'ncy Adams, Minister Plenipo r
tentiary ot the United States to his Majesty er
the King of Pruflia, to be a Commiflioner so
with full powers to negotiate a Treaty of th
; Amity and Commerce with Sweden. fa
Edward Hinman, wf Canucdticut, to b*
matter of a revenue cutter.
Samuel Winflow, of Maflaehufetts, to be ''
Surveyor and lufpettor for the Port of ,h
Thomafton. jn
r»iri t
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Fbanklin, from p°
Bouideaux, l a ,
AND FOR JALB BY T»li SUSjafUBIS, fr(
Claret in calk* ' t - (
White wine in half calks ■
5W£ Lu.'-dl 3 fVP,rior qU4llty iB 1,0158 " nd ba&eU ' d "
Macarty, and ( ' of, Cases. pi ;
M«dce J
7hamas Murgetroyd,
No. ii, Vva nut Street.
WHO HAS ON hand,
hLny wme in pipesand quarter casks
Kota
Pimento in bags
»Vo trunks ot UmtrJlas, an.l
AUout 4000 buihvls 1 iVcrpxelfiaU
marih 19 " ' ...
y mw l(fcf Q r
NEvV-THEVTR;<.
*
Mr. WIGNELV.t NIGHT.
THIS EVENING, March 19,',
j Wi.l be ptefentcd. (not afted thi»feafoi) a teic
| brated CO üßDY(tvric en by the autn. rcf v>
I lambm, C' 1! *r«n in the Wood, Jkc ) c^i'ed,
1 Ihe Way to Get MarrieJ
To which will he added—sad with the origin!
ite Overture and French mnfic, (coirpofeJ by Mr,
| RochfortJ a Grind, Seri >u« PANTOMIME
j BALLET, tailed,
f> 1 Hie Death of Caps. Cook
With new Scenery, Machinery, Drcffes and D,cc
raticr.s..
j. CJ* O" Wedmefd*y, (not a&ed this fca*
r f«ia) a Comedy, called 7he Schvel far Scan
! da! :—with the Afrecabie Surbrife, For the
n Beoeft of.Mrs, Mi&Ry.
%* Mrs. Marshall's Niijfot, will be
1- on Friday next.
I- "Schuylkill permanent Bridge.
e ——*•
Ex-rea from •• t- c A<ft -o authorize the Governor
l_ of this Commonwealth te incorporate acempa
>_ ny for ere&tnj a per manent Bridge over the ri
ver Schuylkill, at or near the city of Philadel
phia."
r ~ Sec. 1. '' therefore r"*Bti ty tie Senate and
j A > Htujt ef Reprrfe.'ativtt if tie Ctmmop
luealtl»/ fenrtfy Ivan iii in Ventral AJftrebly met, and it
2 " hereby enaßtd ly the authority tf the '/am, That
| Alibi 1 I'itsrs, John Pcror," O.i :frey Haja
j Matthew M'Cctnnell, at d William Sheaff, or any
- three of them, be, n H .I ,ir hereby appointed Cbm
miiEotief) to 4o and perfor « the fevcral duties
herein altrr mentioned, th it ij to fay ;
y TJiey (ball and may, on or before the firft day
_ of Jure nejt precureen.- or more books, as they
(hall think neceflary, and therein en cr as f llowi,
- viz.
" W-e, whole mines are hereunto do
a promise to pay to the Prcfidcnt, Directors a.M
e Company, for er;&ltt£ a nri'ge over the riVer
1 Schuylkill, at crncat he city of "hila
, lum of one ollar at (he time o' fublcribint; tn.i
1 one dollar irf three months thereafter ; iarev.-ry
. i fn»r« ot flock in the Lid company, oppatice to
; pur refpettive nam 9. andthe rcfidu -ther-of.it ,h«
- rate of ten dallars for each <ba--< , In such manner
, j a °d proportion*, and at fuch'time. is fliall »e de
termined by the Prefidetlt and ;!ireilors cliof-n in
t pmrfuanceof an aft of Centr*! /TeraWy, eM-itled,
. j•' Vn 4& to authorize th Governor of thiaCom
" monwealih to incr>porat» a company for crr&.
5 " inga permanent+iri ge over therirer Schuylkill
. « at or near the city of and (ball
thereupon proceed to receive fubfc riptians for the '
flock of the said company, which i.herjby declar
-1 ed arid mt. nded 10 be ;he ftim of one huadre fa-id
Ifry thqafand dol!ar», divided into fifteen tho«faH<i
> lhar«, at ten doiLrj each a< such times and p',a«-
1 es as they stall thirk proper, of which pu lie no
tice (hall be given in three or mors newfpapera
(«.ne .f which fcali be in tie .erman bn H ua K e)
; printed in thr city of Philadelphia, lor at least
. twenty days before the of m eting And
if before the fa id 'Jock be completed, they ftialL
adjunrn for » e than three days, notice of the
. tiye and place when and wh, re the Commillioncra
\ w i' l Bcxt rec -vc fuhferipti; n.-,. fhdll be given i-i at
least one new lpaper, printed in the said city ; ln d
it (hall he iawfu so- any p rfon, body politic, or
cerporato to ful.fenbe for as many fhaie s nor er
■ ceding ob huß red ,n our day a. he, (he or th»y
, (hall'choofe ; provided always that every perfou
ofTcwng ro fuhlcribe naforefai.f, i»hi«own name,
or any o-h rrame, 0 ail previ uiypny to the as
; tending commission r on. doll.r for cv ry fliar«
to be lu'*c, ibed, out o which shall be defrayed tha
exfences atttn -aking ;uch fubfeuptions and.
other mci lental charg-s, and the remainder (hall
be paid onrto the trealurer of the corporation,
a» soon as the fame fh .11 be organized and the offi
cers at is h-rein alter mentioned ; but the
refcrve t!.r, e thousand
stares, which ih.u be afpropria-ej by the PicUdcnt
ai.d Uire£or< and used. if the,fame he found ra
qaifite, for the wpofe, her, in after mentioned, ot
veiling therein the moui s t >be appli.d ior .n f.nk
tng fund, to free the bridge and /oenal.le the I'rcti
wkh if",), ?" and c " m J' :o -ie thcre-
Such f the said reserved (h:ire« 35 arr not used
for tiiel. purpof.'s to !«• open for further-fu'.fcr.o
tion, «r sale, as the Prefidt nt an Director. shalL
according t.circumlLar.c«s.derm pr per.
rff;. , A ", d . ic '■ father enabtd by the
authority afirefaid, I'hat whe. one hui dred
perfons.ar more, (hall hive fubfenbed five thou
iand shares in U.e laid ft., k the laid Coi.nnf
fioner,, r,fpr«ft,ve) y , certify BtlJtr , e r r
l ands and Icals, the,names „{ t i JC s u bs frs
and the number of (hares fuhferibed by, or an-'
portisned toraeh fubftriber, to the Governor of
ihi.. Comm. * wealth, and thereup«r, it (kalian,!
may be lawful for the t ers »,
lent, under hi. hand and leal of the state, , 0 cre
ate an erf(2 the fubfenbers ; and if the Ikirf
rubfcr.pt,anl be „„ f,ll ? r the time, thafr aTfo,
whoi Ihail afterward, fufefcribe ,0 the ma ra ber a
tarefiid into one body politic a„d corp Jrst e, in
''The"? Vr'r' n th £ " a " ,e ' le and ,itlc of
she P,efidet.t, L),re«or. and C WPany , f or
a permanent bridge over river
. cbu s lkill, at or near the e.ty of Ph ladelnhia
a ' b >' the U<<4 na "'e the said . Aifcfcnber. (hall
have perprtnal fncceffion ; and all p iv.legea
and franchifis mt,dent to a corporation, and
stall be capable of talc ng and hilding their
a,d capttal (lock, and the increale and p r.fi«
there®! and cf enlarging the sam« fr.m time
to time, by new f.bfcnptw,,,, in s uc h manner
and form a..hey stall th nk proper, ,f s uch en
largen.ent stall be (.«nd nrceffary to fil ,b e
' D TL°l th " t{ l'' lnd of tsk "'g- purchaflnr
and holding to ihtro andrhcir lu. tv(T,r. in f*,
simple, or for any eft efta.e, *ll such lands,
ZT' rnf mc * tt i" d c,h,t ' r "' »nd per.
them m f"h r nccdr "-y "1 • convenient to
them, "> the prosecution ot their works aod the
fame tof H and dispose of at their
of fu-ng and being sued, and of doing I flni
rl/ Ut ' C Uwfarfiy do.
th7,fl K f I*"' appointed in
befor*. mentioned f„ the purples there-
Xf i rtby g,VC not ' cc apreeably,;here
to, .hat hooks are provided, as the ,w ci'i , cU,
and i Jiar wc will proceed to rerri fu\r.
*v n 'cceiye Hioicriptions
for the Company Stock, on the gth d JV of a!
P "fxt.it the City Wall, i n thc c ;. v y nf
ladelphw. fubl'criptitm. *i|i L received*
om ten o c.eck in tha morning of the fa «l dav
till two o'clock, P. M. and the books wHh'con'
dTv.' TLT U? h "' 7l l"""eedi ß g
day., at the lame place, antil one huhdrcd per
sons, or nore fl a | l have !'ubfcr,bed five t!„n,| P and '
tJ- i. fi ° cfc ' " by the said a«
n direfled and requirtd. "
K.ICIIARD PKTEPS
JOHN -PEROT,
GOJDFIiY ii >GA
v^ E^v M'C'ONN-EI,
PK , ~ ~ HILLLAM SHEAFF.
..Uauttfme, x^sbMorel, 179 J. uwtf
TO rent] T
A gocd three jftory House
TWO rocmt on ench with a conv.ni.tK
warab 3//, Ciugb, Cakirrbi, AjlbtMSf isV.
WahVs Antipertuflis,
IS a fafc and certain cure for that definitive dif
ordsr the Hooping Cough. rhc celebrity
which thi# medicine has acquired in Eng.and, ren j
ders the publication of cases ef cure unnecessary
t ere—but as the AntipectufTi* hai been but re
eently introduced into thi» country, it may not he
amils to publiih the following cafe%, felecled from
a much greater number, as proofs of its efficacy. (
4t Summer-Hill, Stourbridge, Nor. x 8,*92. j
<<Sir » «. , f 1
" Please to fend by the coach, a large bottle of
your Antipertuflis. I have given it to the p f 'or o* (
thi» neighborhood, by which many have been cur- ,
ed of that dreadful disorder the Chincough, an j
in no inftaHce has it failed in giving immediate re- |
lief. <
" I am, Sir. your very obedient Servant, ,
GEORGE BHISCOE. .
" Bath, June 2, i
<4 SIr ' •u u- • (
" The cause of my troublingfyou with this i«, .
that I thought it a duty which I owed to yourle i
and to foclety, that I ikould mention the salutary ,
effe(sls that your excellent medicme, called A^ £l " (
pert jffi», had upon my eldsft foti ; wh'* wa *» a ol ' t
two months ago, with the Hooping Cough, j
in a mod dmdful degree My child wa«art«ni
ed by Tome of the most eminent of the faculty here, (
who, for three dcy», thought him dying j and was j
givwn over. At this time a friend of mine men- (
fionedthe wonderful cures that had been «fFe«fied (
by yc ur r. edicine ; and thouigh vre had no expec
tation that my child could possibly recover, yet I
refilvtd to try it. I did ; and at this time, I have t
the happiness to fay, that he is quite well, not the ,
kali lymp om of his eonsplaint remaining. ,
" Yow'ij&c. 1
" JOSIAH ELLIS TOMKIN6. I
(London, to wit.) ( i
Jwnes Eardley, of No. 4, Poland-street, ir> the
parifti of St. fames, came hefort me this day, and
voluutarily roaketh oath, and faith, that hi^child,
a boy about two years old, was effe&ually cured
of the Hooping Cough (which he was affli&ed (
with in a moil violent degree for some months, j
and ior which he could get no relief) by Mr. j
WaWh's Antipertuffis. And further
faith, that at the time the child firft toek thi* me
dicine, it was net expe&ed he could l>ve ; and that
the firft dose, aimoft ißimediately, removed some
of the most violent- symptoms ; his appetite,
ftrcngth, and spirits mended every day ; and this
dtpouent further faith, that th ee or four bottles
made a pcrU£t cure ; and that the child is ia
as g**od a state of health as it wa» before.
JAMES EARDLEY.
Swqrfl before me, thlsaifl d«y of March, 1795*
Thomas Iki,nner, Mayor.
It is Sold, by appointment of Mr.
• by brfAW & Co. No. 129, Chtfuut street, Fhi
ladeJpliia in bottles at I i dollars each-—VVhere only
may be had iv#ljb's Lozenget of Coltsfoot, forrecert
cojhs— Whittbeadh EjJcncs of Mvjiard, for rheuma
tisms, gcot, lumbago, palsy, numbness, sprains,
and Vrui/es. in boxes and bottles at 1 dollar each—
Sovereign Ointment, an infallible cure for th« Ihb *' I
orce uffng—Dr. Smith's celebrated Specif e for the
Venereal Dife fe y bt I and 2 doUars the bottl#—
also his RefiornUv efor Militated eobfUutioiit at 3 1-2
Qo.i' r-t Aot ton's Antfeubortic Dfofis —lialfam of Ho
try, for cougiis, colds, &c Cnifb Drtfs —
a..il G.tnu % s l.ction s for the face and (kin, &c. &c.
r .irch ' th<at sit
City Commiffioiler'i^Tjifice,
January ink, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION Ci' THE CITII€N<.
r j 1 H1'" f illawing arrangement is made by the
5- said coinmiffioners, for cleansing the
ftr:ets &c
Diftriil No. r.—From the north fide of Vine
fheet,ti the south fide of Mulberry street j t*
hi ur lerthe fuperintsndahoe of Nicholas Hicks.
2 From the smith fidr of Malbrry street, to
the f< ulh fide of C'efnut ftrreet, to be under the
fu,)crint-endance of William Moulder.
3. From ihe south fide of Chefnut street to
the nnrih fule of Spruce street, to be under the
fup'.-nntn.dance of Joieph Claypot>!e.
4. From the corth fide of Spruce street, to the
south lidj nf jCcdar-flr"' 1 r < 1 .be f»-
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
Whr.n pumps are out of order south of
flreet, plcafe apply to Thomas Diiey, at the
corner of Scath and Fifth-Prsets, or Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fcurth, near Chefnut-flreet ; and north of
High flreet, to Dixey and Deliaven, in SaQafras'
street. b.tween Sixth and Seve.th-ftreets.
NOTICI
IS hereby jiven, that the Sjbfcriber, a* infol
ver.t debtor, confined in the'common peal of
theiCountyof Cape Miy in the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Ple»s, in and
fertile said couaty, pra} ing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainll his liberation, parfuint to aa 1 of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an a<3 tor
the relief i f insolvent debtors," pal Ted the 26th
day of Ja uary 1798 —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the 26th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid j to neat at the
Court House in the Middle Precin<s\, at eleven
•'clock, in the forenoon of thefaid day, of which
his creditors are requefttd to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14 —lawew
n" O T I C E.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shel
i.r, of Gated Cottage, in the C.unty of
Surrey, in Gre»t-Britain, Spmfirr, or her afligns,
for two thousand five htsndred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-tlrca cents, in the deferred (lock of
the Uaited Stale., was loft in the (hip Peggy,
Ca; t. Hyer, ,bound from Philadelphia to London
ja the year The fuVfcriler, the said Han-
Ciii Jlielly, intends C? apply to the Treafary of
the United States, for a reaewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb 11. lawtw._
jFrench Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walnut-ftrett,
INFORMS thoft who wi<h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeft in the French Lan
gu he has just opened hisLiß*A*v, con
fiding of upwards of 1500 volume*, the bsft'cal
eulatcd to ufford either ufeful inllruction, or plea
dire. The coaditicns, together with a caealogaa
of the Library, may fie seen at every book-feller's
11 town.
N. 5. All translations from and into tire French,
%cgli(h and Spaniih Languages, eiecutea with ac
curac) aud flifpatch. collet "'■"•>■ *5 •
FOR SALE, at
iWm. Young's Book Store,
No. J», S«ond flreet. the corner of Cbefnnt street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Representatives of tte United States, appoint
"edto prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
againlt WILLI-iM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United Ststls, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, Biadein pursuance of a rffclution of
the House of Representatives, authoriEing the said
Cenrtir.it tee to fit during the rec.fi of Ccngrefr, and
inftrtuSing them " to enquire, and, ty all lawful
" n;e:n', todifcever the whole nature and extern
" of the offence whereof t'i« (aid Wtfliani Blour.t
'• stands impckclie and wh# are the parties a/id
1 1
print td Lj order of the Htufe nf Rcfrefer.taiiics
■ Uetimlcr a®. 5
PROPOSALS,
BY THE
Insurance Company of North America.
I'r.r Insurance against Fiaa, on Dwelling-
Hoki°4. V/ire Houfc«, and other Buildings (and .
on Goods contained. in such Buildinjs) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United Sut;h.
F. Common lufurancei, on hazard; of the firft
class, will he undertaken at a premium of ahout
halt per cent, per annum. For extrahazardous 1
r l '-p.'« * larger premium will he required, which
will vaiy according to cireomftances, feidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; bat in some m
ftanccs, where the property insured i* not oniy in
itfelf extra hazardous, but renc.-red still more so <
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buUdings and :
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised i
according to citcumftauces. I
Hositi and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti- |
tions of wisich are wholly of stone or brick, well
c«nftraA«*. so as to b» guarded as well as may be
3<raino fires from within, and irce from extra h .-
-irdous buildings and occupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, a<'d. may be ir.f"red to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not ot an extra
hazardous kir>d, in calks. bales, or package-., d-> '
pofitod in futh to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than tlnsfum ,
is required to be insured in one tenemctt, an adclw 1
tional premium will be required, in proportion to (
circumfiancv's. c
11. Insurances will also be made ©n buiMingsana j
roods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned j
to the risque. But it is «ot easy to arrange these ,
uader particular heads or classes, so as to delcribe ,
each with the necessary accuracy. Each caf* tuuft
therefore be decidedupon accordingto thecircum- f
{lancesattending it ; and thele circumstances will,
in general, appear from the description accompa
nying the application. '
Budding- partly conftruiled of bricic or stone,
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of builoiing, how they are oc
cupied, how they arc fituited, the neighboring t
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
betaken into view. And with refyeA to goods,
theii^tendency, whether from their ntture, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, cither
to commence or to iacreafe an accidental fire, asd
their liability in such Hate to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden andhally removal, or to be tto
len in time of eonfufion and hurry, are all cir
cumftancssof weight; and, the premiums mud be ,
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following condit;ont are to be under
stood by the parties .
id. The Insurance is ftot binding till the ftipa
lated premium be paid ; but it (hall be'deemed et
fedual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the poiicy be immediately
signed or not.
id. Insurances raay be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
ptnfetthan the payment of the premium of the re
newed tcrm.the circumstances continuing the fame
as they weretinderftood by the Insurers at the time
the former insurance was made ; but the payment
of the premium is essential to such renewal ; and
if, -the party irsfured fuffers any time to elapse «fter
the expiration of the former insurance, beforeJie
pays a premium for the renewal, lie is not insured
during such time ; aor can theinfuranee be renew
ed on the former policy b*t by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of th« former Tnfurance- The fubje<st of inTur
anee may neverthelefi be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If a'y other insurance bewiadeon the fame
property ; itniuft lie made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy nude on such ap
pLcation will be void.
4th Goods held in trull, or on conflgnment,
may be insured as such in a flsparate policy; but
th<iy arenot to be considered as infuttd otherwise.
,?th- This company will net be liable or accoun
table (cr any loss or damage occafionrd by any for
eign invafiin, or by aay military or ufirped force,
or by pjafon of aay civil commotion ; or occalion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of t&e
like kind kept in the Building, or amonglt
4th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
milTary Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
curioftties, or mirrors exceeding the Valae of twen
ty-fiv« dollars each, to be considered as iafuredun
lefs particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7th. No infarance will be made for a ftorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fo
vea rears. Persons choofirg to infara for fsven
years [hall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner on an infuraace far
three years.
Bth. I.offes fuftaincd by fire on property insured,
(kail be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
qaidaticn thereof, without deduAioa.
A defci.iption of the property to be iefurod will
be expected with each application, to be made by
a matter'carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the building 01 applicant for in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will enrtify bit knowledge of the
' parties and their credibility.
With refpeA to Haufn and other Buildings,
ift. The site and position ; describing the
street or road on or near which the building
stands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumstances relative to the exting jilhmeat of fire
in cafe of accident; ami particularly whether
' any and what fire companies arceftablifhed, and ,
engines providedjn the place or neighborhood.
' ad. The materials of which it Is built, whe
j ther of brick, stone or w«od, and what part of
each, as well at to theoutfide walls as infideor
' partition walls, and their refpeftive height and
. thickncfs; the style of the roof and of what
f materials ; how feeured by battlements or par
. ty walls ; what kind of accefs'to the top of the
houf* and to the chTmnTes ( whether any and
what eleiSric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of depefit for alhet.
3d. Thedimenfionsof the building and how
divided, and the fiyle m which it is finifhed so
as to enable indifferent perfous to jodge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
r injury ; the age and condition of the building,
- and how occupied, whether n>grc|y as a dwel
- ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
p6le ; also an eflimate of the value of thebpul'e
■ or builiwg independent of rhe ground.
' 4th. The situation with refpedl to other build
' ings or bick buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
' each way : wliat kind of buildings are witbin
that diftaAce, how buift, of what materials, and
- how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufaftory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
• extrahazardous articles used, or usually depo
ffted in the house, or within thcdiftance afore
" fa id, and of what kind.
; RelpedVrnggoods in Houfts, 4c.
" 1. A g»oeial description of the building in
~ f which they are kept will be expe<aed, similar in
, all refpedts, as to the danger from lire, with that
] required for Infurante on the buildings them-
I fclves.
, a. A description of th'e kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in caflcs or other packages,
| or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in tha ul'ual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a~ general
eflkcatc of the value of *tch kind proposed to
be insured ; but in the bft particular minute
ness of description i» not expected.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra haiirdoua, tluugh in various degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, viz.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rolin, wax, tallow, 01 ,
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened.
| Glils, china ware or porcelain, especially un
i pj ktd ; Looking glafles, jewelery ; and all o
ther articles mors than crmmouly infummab
orrnoretlun commonly liable to injury by iud
den removal or by raoiftures, or particular y
obroxioin to theft on an alarm of fire-
Letters poll paid, direflwd to the Secretary o
the Board of Directors, will be duly attended
' to. An order for Tnfurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be immt
diatelv executed on the premium being paid, ij
the application contain an enquiry only, it WM
be anfwercd-
Br order of the Board,
EBENSZER HAZARD, See ry.
of the lalurance Company offi ort/i )
America ; Pbilud. Feb. 1, J79® - > ,
Feb. 14. I
Hoafe and Lots, in Botdenifiwn.
T'C BE SOLD, a handfoine two story Hou:r,
with the 1...t 011 which it is erefted, lituat
ed about the middle of theheautifnl and keaKay
Village of Bordcntoiyn. The haufef is forty
two feet in front,, and in neat order, Ihe lot
contains one acre, anilisoije hundred Jest on ;
the main street, and extends with the lime j
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, son
taining nearly four acres, separated from •the .
former by baok street. One third only of ths
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed,-and for the remainder, such credit
w 11 be givrn as the purchafcr may chufe. This
properly will be fold of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, reliding in Bordentown, near
the premises, who will shew the fatr.e, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 43, Iflulbarry-fHeet.
December a! 3«wtf
~ Boston Glass Manufo&ory.
THE eitiiens of »h: United States are hereby
informed, that the manufaiftnrc of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House io
Bel'.on.
It is r.eedlefs to fay anything of the excellent
quality of theßofUn Glass, as it isfo wellknown
throughout the United States to he in every r ef
fect greatly superior to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be eat to any file commonly *fed j and
may be conflantly had by applying to Cbatht F.
Xuf/er, at theGlnft Hcale
Orders from the iJftant Statestobe addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-ftroet, Boston.
•gj* Two or thres t{Ood Glass makers are want
sti the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, may be sure of
employ, by application to Ms. George L, Lindt, at
the* works. Mod without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of rittkiog Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with tin fame encouragement.
Bojlpn. January 16 a i;w6ir
New-Tori, February, 1798.
PiJOPO.S^i^BYGEORGEFORMAN,
ICR J'BJNTI.IO il SUBSC*JPTJO«,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix msntbs—entitled
PR.OOFSof a CONSPIRACY agsinft
all the Religions anil Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Masons, fliuminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lected from good authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. W.
Prtfejfer cj' Natural Pbiltft+by, and Suretary to tie
Royal Society 9/ Edinburgh.
JVjtg res fnttir mm flrtrfgtt
THIS work will be put to prefsas foon'as
403 iubferibers are obtained, and no' money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lt shall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper ol su
perior quality, which will comprise about 4Co
pages neat o<2avo, handsomely bound and lettered
—the price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Thofa who procure 12 fnbfcribers, and become
accountable, shall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
*,* Th a above wo 1 k comes from the pet) of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
eftimatien ia the literary werld—the fa<9» therein
recorded are well fubftautiated, and thereafoning
and arguments thence deduced, while they difto
l ver the found judgment and psnetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse as well at to in
flruiSt. A scene of villainy is developed by the
| author fufiicient to appal the ftoutell heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from secret focietiss is
! clearly pointed out ; the degensracy of human na
. ture awfully illustrated, and the hazard of every
[ deviation from the straight path of religioh and
of virtue, inconteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriftiau by flubborn and incontro
vertabla fads.
tit Subferiptions taken in ly G. Forman, No. 46,
William-[licet, opftfite the Poji-Office, and by the refpde
tivc bockfcellers in AV:y- Ytrk and Philadelphia.
February aB.
Neva-York, January 14, 1798
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Hook,
Proprietor »f the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Rolanb;
Wife of the Mjciftcr of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and Very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London «di
tionsm a few months,) will be comprised in a
vels. odlavo, of 4eo pages each.
' They will be printed on fine paper and a new
' type, and delivered to Subfcril ers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
' ume-—one third of the Subscription montytobe
* paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work is ompleat.
c To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made.
J £3* Subscriptions are taken at the Reading
-1 Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printinj-
Offiee, 149, Warl-flreet— and at the different
Bookilores in New-York- Also, by William
Young, corner r f Second acd Chefnot street, and
the Editor of" the Gazette ef tbe United States,
Philadelphia.
1 As soon as a fufiicient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will he put to press, and
compleated with the (Utmost dispatch.
,r *'' eodim
1 For Sale,
1 A good situation for a Country Seat,
1 FOR TY seres of land on the Old York Road,
within fight of Oeruiantown and about siva miles'
from the City, the whole being ouder goad fence,
and in excellent order as pasture grouno.
, for further information and terms, apply to
J /° NN r E i- LIOTT Cujsok, at hi# office for the
,°* ' eil Eltatss, Conveyancing, icc. No. «4,
I High-street.
> 211 mo. «6tK jawaw
treasury department,
i MARCH 1, 1798,
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
' e AS of Conerefs passed on the sixth day of July onethwfand seven hundred and
1-Av seven e - titled " An A A laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and ;he
A -> Lff d on the fifteenth day of December, one thou&nd seven hundred and n.iiety-feveH
;.L a-} to oolipone for a limited time the commencement of the duties mipofed by the \a e«u
"An Alt lavin"' Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and
firft day of Jaly enfaing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collet,
ted throughout tLc United States.-
For every fcin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or fhect or piece of Paper, upon which shall k c
written or printed ai.y or either of the icftruments or writingsiollowing —to wit '■
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - * " ' 5
Anv Licence to practice,or Certificate of the adniiffion,enrolment orregiltryof
* any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proper, it) any Court of the
United States, - - - - - .
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of thefaid Ofiicei, fiia'.l ',O far as relates to the payment of the •
duty afore'aid, oe a futticient admission in all the Courts cf the United
States, for each an 1 every of thefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands gramed tor military fefvices) - - 4
Any exemplification cr certified copy cf ;ny fuck grant or letters patent, (M
---cept for land. i:>..iited for military lervices) ... z
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Uefpondentia Boud, - - I
Anv Receipt or discharge for or on account of anyLcgacyleft by any Will or e
.tiier'teftameutary irtllrument, or for auy ftiare or part of a perfor.a! estate di
vide.! by force cJ any ifatute of diftrfuutions, other thin to the Wife, Chil
dren or Gra«d Children of the person deceased, the amount Whereof shall be
aixive the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed tbe value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - 1 "
When thetamount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundrad dollars, - - 5°
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of X
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrtttnent in nature thereof, on any Slip, vcffel or
gbods infiired from one diftri& to another in the United States, 15
From the United States to any foreign, port or place, when the sum for which
lufurance is made shall r.ot exceed five hundred dollars, - 5°
Whes the sum inCured shall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that feall pals the seal of any
Court, ether tha? such as it may be the duty of the Ckrk of such Court to
fumifh for the use of the United States or lome particular ftafe, - 50
Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland billot' exchange, promiff-.ry
note or other note, other tham any recojnizjnce, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or eentnA, madcto or with the United States or any slate, or for their
ufc refpeiiively, - - " - "
If above twenty dollars and not exceediug one hundred dollars, - J 10
- If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, > 25
If above five hundred dollars aad not exceeding one thousand d*llars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, * 75
Frtvided, that ifa*y bonds or notes shall be payable at or within Dxty days,
such bonds or notes fball be fubjefl to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforetaid —viz.
If abov« tweoty dollars and sot exceeding »ne hundred dollars, J 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, T xo
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoolaud dollars, I 20
If above one thousand dollars, - - ."rJnu
Any Notes issued by the banks »ow efliblifhed, or that oaay hereafter be ettab
lifced within the'Uoitud States, other than tke*ore» of fucli of <h» said Banks
as fcall agree t« aji an-noal co»f>ofition, of one per centum ou tha annual di
vidends tuadeby such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeAively, aceordiitg to
the following fca4e. - "
On all »otea not exco««li»g fifty dollars, for each dollar, - ♦
Ob all notes above fifty dollars, aad not exceeding one hundred dollars, JO
Cn all notes_above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - " 1
o* all notes above five hundred dollars, - 2
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, - *5 (
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid -pension, »r to obtain tfr fell War
rants for Laad granted by the United States as bounty for naitttsry fi:rvic«
performed in the fate war, - •- 25
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cuftonaa or duties, for leCs than
five hundred dollars, - - - ~ r
For five hundred dollars and exceeding two thousand dollars, *
For snore than t>»o thousand dollars, ... j
Any note or bill of ladtug for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diftridd to another dlfkrivft of the United States, not being in the
f»me State, - - - ro
If from the United States to any foreign port or pla*;, - - aj
Any Inventory or Catalugtie of any furniture, gcois or effedYs, made in any
aafe required by law, (exoept in cafe* of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and coods take* in virtue of any legal proctfs l»y any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Infuranee Company, ef a share in the Batik of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars add not exceeding one hundred dollars,. - ] » -
If above one bnndrsdckillaxa, - 3 i
—rrTiTifJec - twenty dollars, at the rate often ants ror one hundred dollars.
H.
The d*ti««aforefail will be colle&td and received by the Snpervifors, Infpefiors aud other Offieen
of Infpeflien; in the several Diftri&i, Surveys and Divisions of the United ktates, asd by fuck otfcr
persons as fcall frem to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diflridslw
that purpose.
111.
The Supervifsrs of the several DiftriSs will, prior to the firft day of July enfuiog, and as soon n
may be pra&icable, mark or stamp, without fee or reward, aDy quantities or parcel# «f Vellum, Pafrit
inent or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties; Or
stamped vellum, parchment and paper ti.ay at the option of the Citiaens of the United State", be ob
tained at the rntej prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, InfpeSer, Officer of lnfpsftioj,
or otlur par ion appointed Se&tbe difiribstion of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflrids.
GIySN under my Haud, at PbHaMpbia
the day and year mbovcmeniincd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Stcrttary of the Trtetjury.
NOTICE.
ALL perforu who havs any demands agaiuft
ths eftatc of Wilum Fhbwtoob, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelpkia, aerchant, de
ceased, are requested to exkibit their accounts,
properly attefled ; and those who are indebted
to tke fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, te
GEO. DOBSON, ? ,
No. #5, So. Third-flreet. f Air *"»fi T r
Jaauary 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-flora* of UelTri. Dob
»om, Cakpbsll, Yobn* and Osmhod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On ths Canlct and Cure of Ranitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To v/hiit it annnccd,
AN ABSTRACT of th* opinions and pra<sticc of
different amthari: and an APPENDIX, «xhik
iting inureiling fails and reflexions relative to
the Syuoeius ISeroidtt, or Yellow Fever, which
has occaGooed so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of th» United States of America,
by WILLIAM CURRIE.
Falow of the Philadelphia College of Fhyficiani,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
c'"ty- Feb. I—*3m§
For saLe or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Let of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east comer of Wal
nut and Fifth flretts, fronting the Statc-
House square. This lot it fifty-ene feet front
on Walnut street, and ane huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there ire at
present two small two flory brick kuufes, asd a
nutlaber of small tenensents thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With ccnveriientftorej, wharf, &e. fnuateon
Water street, between Mulberry an'J Saflafrai
Streets, containing in front on Water itreet fif
l ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward mnety-fivit feet, then wiiening to the
' fouih thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin-
I ing on the north fide, and a<ea very defirableifit
; iratioa for a a merchant, flour fa<flor, or others
| who may have occasion for florage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reafonabie
terms for ralh. Far further information apply
to the printer.
Ju'y it. jniwtf
Salif&ury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propofiog to contrast Ins bud
neft, offen this Eftilc tor falc, 011 moderate
terms. On it are one Blafl and tbree Air Furnacas,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very goed grift
Will, with two pair of {tones ; also a good Forge, »tt
in perfcft repair, as are all-the Water Works conneft"
ed with thefc various branches. The Air Furnace!
were lately built for the purpofc of calling Canned
for this State.—There art abou" two tfcoulatid acrrt
of Land, one half of which itunder wodti, the otbet
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay sod
Pallure. Tha Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which i»
(uperior to any in this country, and profeablyi eqaat
to any in the world ; for not oue of lixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of rtw 24 were borea
into 31 pounders, hate failed on proving. The fili
ation is very eligible, particularly far this branch of
manufacture, aid a place of arms lying in the Sate
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from fevera! land •
trigs on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeftjl purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat
ed with all the stock and utenfila, and have poffeffiod
oner before the firfi of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean aim* for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
iii good order, with fonae coal. Ore, &c. &c. Fat
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel-'
phia; David Brooks, Esq. ono of the Reprefcnt«.ive«
tii Coogrefs for this State ; Jit, David Wwcrman, on
theprenufes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEIL3O?(,
Dee. t. j*wtf
■ ■ , -*
h 0 T I C E.
A Manufactory of yelloiv and delft warty
Such as never was in this Country before, hai beett
been lately ere&ed at Tivoii, Red Hook Landing,
on the East IJank of Hudfon'a River, state of New-
York, where any article of various forts and fliiptt
may be executed j as well as earthero stoves upon a
new conitiu&ion, that favea three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in call iron stoves or open chymoins
they are besides very whoieforae and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a (killful hand to attind to the baking and
glazing pan of the said ware. Generous appoi ol '
ments will be given. Apply asa©r>ve. or to .
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 Sdfch .sth Street.
Feb. >9. . - eod4» ,
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or tin*
the centre of the city—far which a gener"'
ren". will be given ; to ba taken tor a rear, o' Of
more for a lergsr term. lnqttireof the prir.f •
C£t. 17 "O"