ofMtlltttl Daily Advertiser.
Nvmbrr 1744.J
LAW OF PENNSYLVANIA.
AN ACT providing thi C the person of a deb
torJball not le liable to imprifonritenf for debt
njier delivering up his efljte for the benefit
of his creditors, unleft he hath be-'n guily of
fraud or embezzlement.
Sett 1 it euaCiedby the Senate and House
AJ cf Rrprefentatives of the Com
monwealth of Pe>mfy!vania, ih General AJfem
hty met, and it is hereby enafted by the authority
of the fame, That ar.y debtor, having been j
an inhabitant of this State for two years next ,
before his application, may apply bypetition ;
i<i writing to tVe Judges of the Supreme j
Court, or to the Judgesof the Court ofCom
raoH I'kasof the county where the said deb
tor rslides in term tinrre, and rffer to deliver
up to the use of his creditors all his proper-1
ty, real.personal, and mixt to which he is in
any banner entitled, a schedule wJu-reof (on
oath or affirmation) together with a lilt of;
Lis creditors, as far as he can ;fcer ain them,
and the nature of their debts, shall be exhi
ted with, and annexed to his petition, and
th< reupon the said Court may di.-ett perfo- j
1 al notice ot fircJi application to.be given to
the creditors, or fa many of them as can
be f rved therewith, or < ireft notice of such j
application to be publiflicd in the public i
ncwfp'pers for fnch tinvs as the said Court !
may think proper, ard on the appearance of
the creditors cf luch debtor, or their negleft
to appear on notice at the; time and place ap
pointed, the said Court may admitiider the
following oath or affirmation to the debtor
making such application, " I A. B, " do
" swear, or folrmn-ly, frocefety, and truly
" declare and affirm, tha-t I will deliver up,
" convey, and tran fer to my creditors all
" my property, tha 1 have or claim afty ti
«' tie to or intereftt in at this time in the
V -world, and all debts, rights, and claims
" which 1 have at this time, or tint I am
" in any refpeft entitled to, in poffiffion, re
" version, or remainder, and that I have not
" direftlyor indireftly, at any time before,
"given, fold, conveyed, leafed, difpoftd
" of, or ttitrufted any part of my property,
" riphts, or claims, tlwrcby to defraud or
" defeat my creditors, or any of them, or to
" secure the fame, to receive or expeft any
" profit, benefit, or advantage thereby."
Sett. 2. y!nd be it further enatltd by the
authority aforefaid, 1 hat the said insolvent
fhdll, .hereupon, exhibit to the said coart,
a just and true account of his debts, credits,
and estate, real and personal; containing a
flatement of his lofTes, and the means where
by he became insolvent ; and shall fatisfy the
laid court, that he h«3 nr t concssledor con
veyed to any person or p«rfor>» whatsoever,
to the use of himfelf or ar.y of his family or
friends, or whereby toexpe-tta' y future be
nefit tahim or thttf>i any part or his eitate,
effeHs or credits ; and shall ai.fwer all and
every such qutftions or interrogatories touch
ing tiis ellaie and loffieby word or in writ
ing, a3 fhail be put to him by the courtr
touching his estate or afo"-efaid, audi'
upon f ell examination, therm shall not arise
pp.fumption of fraud, then the said
ccuit, whether at its regular session, or (it
tingat N'ifi Prius orby adjournment, (hall ap
point such trustee or trultc.es on behalf of the
creditors, as two thirds in number and value
of the said creditors, who are then attending
either in person or by Attorney, fnall no
minate, or in cafe the fiiJ creditors shall not
attend or not nominate any trustee, th n
such trustee or trustees as the said court shall
think p opcr, and shall dircfl the said dtbtor
to execUt a deed to such a trultee or trustees
for all his property, debts, rights and claims
in trust for his creditor?, and up;M the ex.
ecution of fttch dttd, the said court may
itiake an ottlef that the said debtor shall m.t
at any time thereafter be liable to imprifon
inent by realon ol any judgment or decree,
obtained lor payment of money only, Or for
any debt, damage, cost, sum orfum> of mo
ney, contracted, accrued Or occasioned, ow
ing or becoming due before the time of such
afll-rtiment, and such order shall be a fuffici
cnt warrant to the fherifF, gaoler or keeper
of the prison where any such debtor shall be
then imprisoned, to the said deb
tor, and he is hereby required te discharge
and ftt him at liberty forthwith.
Sett. J- And be it further enaSed by the
authority tforefaid, That every Trultee before
he »ft»R*lucli, ftiall give bond to the Com
monwealth, with security in f ch penalty as
the said court (hall dirett, for the faitliful
performance of his trust, and in cafe of the
ref.ilal t,r delay of aoyTiultee to aft, or in
cafeofhis death, the said Court may appo nt
another in his r. om who before he aft» ; shall
gi»,- bond with security a. a orefjiid.
Sett. 4. />n be it further enaSed by the
authority tfjrefud. That the said Court who
Ihall muke the order aforefaid, may allow
any such debtor, to retain the necessary
wearing apparel and bedding for himfelf and
his family* and, if a mechanic or manufac
turer, his tcols, not exceeding in value the
sum of fifty dollars.
Sett. $• And be it furlh r enafted by the
authority aforefaid, That the said Trustee or
TrUttees shall have power to compound with
the debtors of ths hid petitioning debtor, in
clfes of dtfpute orcohtroverfy, by arbitrati
on or otherwise, and that all such debtors
fhatt benefit of a defalcation where
there are mutual debts between them and the
said petitioning debtor, In like manner is in
c bcr cases.
Sect. 6, And It it further enaSed by the
authority I, for rsaid. That the said Trullers
fhaHcnllett the debts, and fell andcoi>v<y all
the real, perfortal and mixed property of
such dtbtor, for the best price ibfci can bt
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY ETjENING, APRIL 12, 1798.
got fur the fame, and the nett produce, asa
ter paying all necessary expences attending
the execution of the trust, and dedutting the
commission of the Trustees, shall be divided
amongst the creditors, in proportion to the
amount of their several and lefpeftive debts
and claims.
Seft. 7. ■/nil be it further enicled by the
authority aforefaid, That any l'rullee or Trus
tees may, if necessary, sue in his or their
own names, for the recovery of any property
or debts belonging to such petitioning debtor
and convtyed to such Trultee or Truflees
agreeably to this aft, Provided always, that
no suit brought by such debtor, and depend
ing at the time of his assignment, lhall be
liable to abate thereby, but the lame shall be
continued in his name, rind execution may
be issued in his name, if judgment shall be
obtained therein for the benefit of his cre
ditors.
Seft. 8. And be it further enjfled by the
authority pforefaid, That the said Trustees
(hall appoint such time and place for receiv
ing the proofs of the creditors in support of
their refpeftive claims, and for the diflribu
tion of the said debtor's estate, as to them
(hall seem proper, and finally to close the
accounts of the said estate and distribution at
such time not less than three months, nor
exceeding twelve months, from the date of
the said assignment, unkfs the lame (hall be
enlarged by order of the said Court, aft-r
which time every creditor shall be barred
from claiming any {hare in the distribution of
the f lid estate : Provided always, that if any
suit in law or in equity (hall be depending,
or any part of the estate (hall remain undis
posed of, or any future effefts or estate or
the said debtor (liall come in., the said Trus
tees (liail as soon as p«ffible convert the said
estate or effefts into money and within three
months afterwards divide the fame among
the creditors as afoiefaid : Provided alio,
that due and full notice (hall be given of the
several times ard places of meeting for the
purposes aforefaid, by advertisement in at
lealt two of the public nevrfpapers of the city
of Philadelphia, and one nearest to the place
the debtor ufaally resides, for four several
week- at lealt before fitch days of meeting.
Seft. 9. And be it further etiafied by the
authority aforefaid, That if any person, with
intent to defraud ail or any of the creditors,
(hall collude or connive v- it'n the debtor for
the concealment of any part of his estate or
effects, or for giving a falfe color thereto, or
(hall contrive or concert any grant, sale,
lease, bopd, acknowledgment, or other like
proceeding either by parole or by writing, or
(hall become a grantee, purchaser, leafee,
obligee, or other ike party, in any such
fraudulent traufaftioJPj» or shall, v. ith such
fraudulent intent, aft as broker, scrivener,
factor, agent, or witnefsin any proceeding
as afcreiaid, such persons (hall, on being du
ly convifted according to law, forfeit and
pay a sum not iefs than fifty dollars, nor
more than ten thoufatid dollars, and (hall
fuffer imprifosmeiit for a term not lels than
three months, iior more than two years, and
(hall moreover forfeit all cl im which he
may have to any part of the estate of (uch
dtbtor.
Sett. 10. And be it further enaSed by the
authority aforefaid, That if any creditor or
other person, at the time appointed by such
Court for the appearance of the debtor and
his creditors, or at anytime thereafter within
seven years, (hall, by oath or affirmation to
the said Court, ot to any Judge thereof, 01
to any Justice of the teace of the proper
county in vacation, flieVv any pood cause to
fufpett that luch del tor hath d reftly or in
direftly fold, leafed, or otherwise difpoftd
.of in trust, or concealed any part of his or
her property, of any kind, or any part of his
or her debts, rights or claims, thereby to
secure the fime ; or to receive or expett ai;y
profit, benefit, or advantage thereby, to
deceive or defraud his or her creditors, the
said Court, Judge, or Justice, as the cafe
maybe, shall con mit to prison, or bind over
the said debtor to the next Court of Q.i i ter
SefnOns of the i eace of the proper C ounty,
there to answer for the fame by isditt-iieni ,
and all proceedings for the relief of the said
debtor, if pending, shall be ltayed, to await
the event of the said trial in the said Court
of Quarter Sefiions of the Peace ; and the
said debtor, if he fh 11 be there f convicted,
shall be sentenced by the said Court to fuffer
impril'onment at hard labor, foi a term not
less than one jear, nor more than three years,
saving the right of removing the said indict
ment to the Supreme Court, in the fame
manner and under the sam: reftriftions as
other ir.diftments are removed and to be
proceeded upon in the 'ame manner.
Sett. 11. And be it further entißed by the
authority aforefaid, That at each of the said
mteting'S for the pitrpofe us making a d.vi
dend, creditors shall be permitted to prove
their debts, and every Trultee shall produce,
upon oath or affirmation, his accounts, and
what upon the balancd to be liquidated by
the Trustees, shall appear to be iti his hands,
and all just allowances tor necessary expenses
(kallbe made, and such part of the rtfidue
of the nctt produce of the debtor's ellate, as
the Trustees shall direst, shall be dividtd
among those creditors who shall have d ly
proved their debts, in proportion to the
.mount of the fame ; and the said Trustees
shall take receipts from each creditor, in a
book to be kept for that purpefu, and such
receipts shall be a ful discharge to the said
I ruttees, so: so much as thty iha 1 tali ly
pay. »
Sett. li. yfnd le it further enaaid ly tin
authority af orefai , '1 li?.t if !H>y debtor, w..ofe
properly shall be afiijned according to this
aft, (lull have fatLfied a 1 claim* brought in
By John Fenno, N°' il9 Chefnut Street.
and allowed against him, the ;iid Court (hall
order his estate and effefts notvfold, to be
restored to him, and he (hall tliereup n be
seized and possessed thereof as of his former
estate ; and if upon final fe tlement of the
estate by the Trullees, there (hall be any sur
plus, the fame (halt be paid to fueh d:btor,
his executors or administrators.
Set). 13. And he it further enabled ly the
auth rity aforefaid, That the Trust -e or Ttuf.
tees of any debtor, by virtue cf this afl, (hail
receive such salary or commiflion for his or
their trouble, as (hr.H be thought rcafonable,
and ordered by .the (aid Court
Seft. 14.. And be it further enaSed by the
authority aforefaid, That if any debtor in
vacation (hall be arretted in execmion, and
(hall apply by petition to any of the
Supreme Couitj or to the President, or any
two Judges of the Common Pleas tor the
County u here the debtor resides, and give
bond to the plain iff or plaintiffs at whose suit
he is arretted. in fucli penalty and with such
security as (hall be direfted and approved of
by the said Judge or Judges to whom the
petition is exhibited, conditioned thai he (hall
appear before the Court of which the said
Judge or Judges is or are a member or mem
bers, at the r.ext term, and surrender himfelf
to prison, in cafe, on his said appearance, he
does not comple with all things required by
tins aft, to procure his discharge, in the fame
tnasner as if he had applied lothe said court
in term time ; or if the proceedings of the
said Judge or Judges (hall be llopt by infor
mation to be made on oath or affirmation, by
one of the crWitors, or other person as afore
faid, then, that if on the trial of the said
issue, the f.<id debtor (hall be found guilty,
he (hall iip:ntd;ately surrender himfelf to
pnfon. to be charged a' the suit of the
plaintiff or plaintiffs aforefaid ; in such cafe
and on such bond being given, he said Judge
o- Judges may give an order to the Sheriff.
Goaler, or Keeper of the Prison, to discharge
the said Debtor, who is hereby required to
discharge and set him at. liberty forthwith.
Seft. 15. And be it further enade.i by the
authority aforef lid, That any fheriff, goaler
or keeper of any prison, performing the du
ties of his office, in piiriuance of this aft,
fnay make return of the said order of the
said court, judge or judge?, as the cafe may
be, to his or their protefs, which said return
(hall be good and effeftual to all intents and
purpofts whatsoever.
Seft. 16. And be it further enaSed by the
authority aforefaid, That all proceedings be
fore any judge or judges, by any trultae or
trujees, by virtue of this together with
the accoun s and vouchers cxh bited to the
said trustee or trustees, (hall be filed among
the records of the Court, by which the said
trustee or iruflces have been appointed, or of
which the said judge or judges is or area
member or members.
St ft. 17. find be it further ena9ed by the
authority af.refaid, That no dtbtor, who
(hall obtain an order of.difcharge, a3 afore
faid, (hall at any time thereafter, be impri
fonfd by reason of any judgment obtained for
payment ofrnoney only,orforanydebt, dama;-
ges, colts,fur* andfumsof money, contrasted,
accrued, occalioned, owing or growing dne,
before the date of the said debtor's deed of
i'ffignment, but that upon every arrett upon
such judgment, or fcr such debt, dama-es,
colls, sum and sums of money, it (hall and
may be lawful, for any judge of the court,
w here the process iffnrd, upon (hewing a co
py of the order of discharge, certified by the
clerk of the court where the fame is record
ed under seal of office, to release ai d dis
charge the fnid debtor out of cuftodj, and
the (aid judge is direfted so to do, so that
the said debtor if arretted or detaintd, on
mefne; process, do give a warrant of attorney
to appear to 'he aft .on or aftions on which
he is so arretted or detained ano to plead
thereunto, Provided, that the dilchai'ge of any
dt btor by virtue of this aft (hail not acquit
any other person from any debt, sum or
/um« of money, or any part thereof, but that
all other persons (hah be answerable for the
une, in Ihe fame manner as before the paC* -
sing of this aft, and all judg
ments and executions whereby the goods
and chattels, Imds and tenements of the said
debtor, (hall be bound, (hall remain good and
eff ; ftual in law, and (hall be firft fatisfiedout
of the debtor's efta'e, according to their pri"
ority of lien, in the fame manner as if this
aft had never been pitted.
Seft. 18. And be it further enaSed by the
authority aforejaid, That all persons that r,ow
are, or hereafter (hall be. in aftual confine
ment in any goal in this Commonwealth, by
adversary process, and without ary collulion
with the Plaint iff or Plaintiffs, for any cause
of aftion whatever, or for the non-perfcrm.
of any decree for the payment of mo
ney, may at the next term after such confine
ment, petition to be difch*»rged ( agreeably to
the true, spirit and meaning of the afore
faid feftior.s of this aft.
Seft 1 g And be it further en Bed by the
authority aforefaid, That notwithftandii -fr the
discharge of any debtor, by virtue of this
a£i,all and every debt or debts, due and owing
from such debtor, p.nd all and every judgment
and judgment* had and teken ngaintt him, (hall
(land and be good and effeflual in law to all
intents and purposes, against the lands tene
ments. hereditaments, goads and chattels, of
(jch debtor, which he or any other person
or persons, in trull for h : m, at ihe time of
his affignmeut, hath or have or at any time
theren ter, (hall or may be any uays seized
or possessed of, interelled in, or entitled to,
in law or equity, txcept the necessary wear,
ir.g appartl and bedding fcr himfelf and his
family ; and if he lea nrvechai-.ic or manu
ftftuircr, his tccfa not enccedrrg in value the
firm of fifty dollars, and it (hall and m y be
lawful fcr.a -y of his credit rs, or his.or their
executors or admi;ii!Vrators, to lake out a
new execution against the lands, tenements,
hereditaments, goods and chattels of fucli
debtor, except a« before excepted, for the
fatisfaSon <•£ their dcbt« refpeftively, in the
fame manner and form as they might have
done if the said debtor Had never been taken
in execution, any aft. statute, law, or custom
to the contrary notwithflamling.
Seft. 20. And be it further enafled by the
authority aforefaid, That this aft, (hall con
tinue in force until the fivft day of May, in
the year one thousand eight hundred and
one, and no longer.
GEORGE LATIMER,
Speaker of the Ihufe rrf' Rrprefemati'ves.
ROBERT HARE,
Speaker of the Senate.
Approved, April 4th, 1798.
THOMAS MIFFLIN,
Governor of the Communweahb of Pennsylvania.
From the Ne<u>-Tork Commercial Advertiser.
THE S T A ND—No. 111.
In reviewing the disgusting fpeftacle of
the French revolution, it is difficult to avert
the eye entirely from those features of it
whii h betrav a plan to difbrganize the hu
man.mind itfelf, as well as to undermine the
venerable pillars that support the edifice of
civilized society. The attempt by the rulers
of a nation to destroy all religious opinion,
ami to prevert a whole nation to Atheism,,
is a phenomenon of profligacy reserved to
consummate the infamy of the unprincipled
reformers of France—The proofs of this ter
rible design are numerous and convincing.
The animosity to the Christian fyftcm is
derronftrated by the single faft of the ridicu
-1 us and impolitic eftablilhment of the de
cades, with the evident objeft of supplant
ing the Christian Sabbath. The inferiptions
by public authority on the tombs of the de
ceased, affirming death to be an eternal deep,
witness the desire t» discredit the belief of
the immortality of the foul. The open pro
feffion of Atheism in the Convention,* re
ceived with acclamations ; the honorable
mention on its journals of a book profeffing
to prove the nothingness of all religion ;f
the institution of a fettival to offer public
worftiip to a courtezan decorated with the
pompoHs title of" Goddess of Reason
the congratulatory reception of impious chil
dren appearing in the hall of the Conventi
on to lisp blasphemy against the King of
» are among the dreadful proofs-of a
conspiracy to establish Atheism on the ruins
of Christianity—to deprive mankind of its
best consolations and moftatiimating hopes—
and to make a gloomy dtsfert of the uni
verfc. |
Latttrrly the indications of this plan are j
not so frtquent as they were, but from time j
to time fomethin;; still escapes which disco
vers that it is not renounced. The late ad
dress of Buonaparte to the Direftory is an
example. That unequalled conqueror, from
whom it is painful to dttraft, itl whom one
would wish to find virtues worthy of hi#
filming talents, prophanely unitesßELictON
(not superstition) with Royalty, and the
feudal fyllem as the scourges of Europe for
centilries past. The decades likewise remain
the catapulta which is to butter down
Christianity.
Eqiul pains have been taken to deprave
the morals as to extinguif.) the religion of
tlie countty, if indeed nlorality-in a com
munity can be frparated from religion. It
is among the lingular and fantaftic vagaries
of the French revolution, that white the
Duke of Brunfwick was marching to Paris,
a ntiv divorce was patted ; which
makes it as easy for a husband to get rid of
his v ife, and a wife of lier husband, as to
discard a worn out habit.J To complete
the diffolutiori of those ties, which are the
chief links of domeftie and ultimately of
social attachment, the Journals of the Con
vention record with guilty applause the ac
cusations preferred by children againfl their
parents.
It is notneceffary to lig'ghten thepifture
by sketching the horrid groupeof prescrip
tions and murders which have made Francs
a den of pillege and (laughter ; blackening
with eternal opprobnum the very name of
man.
1 he pious and the moral weep over these
fee ucs as a sepulchre destined to entomb all
»hey revere and esteem. The politician,
who loves liberty, fees them with regret as
a gulph that may swallow up the liberty to
yhicb be is devoted. He knows that mo
lality overthrown (andmorality muflfM with
religion) the terrors of despotism can alone
curb the impetuous passions of man, and
confine him within the bounds of social du
ty-
But let us return to the condnft of revo
lutionary France towards other nations, as
more immediately within our purpose.
It has been seen that (lie commenced her
career as the champion of universal liberty ;
and, proclaiming deftruftion to the govern
ments which (he was pleafcd to denominate
defpoti , made a tender of fraternity and
affittance to the nations whom they oppress
ed. She, at the fame time, dife'aimed
conquett and aggrandizement.
But it has since clearly appeared, that at
the very moment (he was making these pro
* By Djponf, Dan ton,
+ Wrirrn. and L>y iAnacb»rfu Cloofz,
calling MmfeW orator of the human race.
£ Thi* J.tw it was onder'.iooj ha.i been laiefy mo'li
fied. in Ccmf'tj joucc ot its manifestly pcmiciou* Un
it ricy ; bui utv.-n 4 itlan which, accord in£ to the c
oiui >u y{ Ihe men in tbr two Council*. lately
tor iftwr, would icavc ihc evii in lull toice.
f Volume XIII
kflkms, and while her diplomatic agent'
were hypocritically amuling foreign courts*
with conciliatory explanations and promises
of moderation, (he was exerting every facul
ty, by force and frand, to accomplish the
very conquest and aggrandizement which (he
infiduoufly disavowed.
1 he people of Belgium, ensnared by fair
pretences, believed that in abandoning the
defence of their country and Trie cmife of
their ancient sovereign, they acquired a title
to enjoy liberty under a government of their
own choice, prote&;d by France. Con
trary, to the hopes which were infpired-,
contrary to the known will of a large
rity of that people—contrary to all their re
ligious and national prejudices—they have
been compelled to become departments of
France. And their violated temples have
afforded a rich plunder to aliment further
conquest and opprefiion.
The I)ufch, seduced by the fame arts to
facilitate rather than obftruit the entrance
of a French af-tty into their cour.try.thought
they were only getting rid of their (ladt
holder and nobles, and wt-ie to retain their
terrftory, and their wealth ft cured by fnch
a civil establishment as they (hoirld freely
choofe-. Their reward is the dismember
ment of their country and the loss of their
wealth by exhaullmg contributions ; and
they are obliged to tak« a government, dic
tated by a faction openly countenanced, and
fnpported by France.- Completely a pro
vince cf France in imitation of their frantic
matters, they are advancing with rapid
ffrides to a iawlefe tyranny at home.-j-
France profefiing eterfial hatred to kings
was to be the tutelary genius of republics—
Holland, Genoa, Venice, the Swiss
Cantons and the United States, are
agonizing witnesses of her sincerity.
Of undone Holland no more need be said
—nothing remains for us but to exercise
tender sympathy in the unfortunate fate of
a country which generously lent its aid to
eftabh'fli our independence, and to deduce
from her melancholy example an instruc
tive lesson to repel with determined vigor,
the mortal embrace of her seducer and de
stroyer.
Genoa, a speck on the globe, for having
at every hazard refilled the efforts of the
enemies of France to force her from a neu
tral station, is recompensed with the sub
version of her government, and i*e pillag6
of her wealth by compulsory and burthen
fome contributions. I
Venice is no more {-'ln vain had (lie pre
ftfrved a faithful neutrality, when perhaps
her interpolation might have inclined the
scale of viftory in Italy against France. A
few of her citizens kill | some French sol
diers. Inflant retaliation takes place. Ev
ery attonement is offered—Nothing will fuf
nce but the overthrow of her government.
'Tis effefled. Her own citizens attrafted
by the lure of democracy become accessary
to it, and receive a popular government at
the hand of France. What is the sequel
—what the faith ke t with them. It suit*»
France to bride (he Emperor to a surrender
of the Netherlands and to peace, that (ke
may pursue her projefts elfewhcre with lefa
oUtacle. It suits France to extend her
power and commerce by the acquisition of
portions of the Venetian territories. The
bribe is offered and accepted. Venice is
divided. She disappears from the map of
nations. The tragedy of Poland is reap
ed with circumstances of aggravated atro
city. France is perfidious enough to facri
fice a people, who at l>erdefire had consent
ed to abrogate their privileged cajls, to the
chief of thole despots, againit whom (lie
had vowed eternal hatred.
The Swiss cantons—the boafl: of repub
licans— the model to which they have been
glad to appeal in proof, that a. republican
government may eonfift with the ordsr and
happiness of society—the old and faithful
allies of France, who are not even pretend
ed to have deviated from finctre neutrality
—what are they at this moment ? Perhaps
like Venice—ajlory told!— The despots of
France had found pretences to quarrel with
them—commotions were excitetf the le
gions of France were in march to second
tne insurgents. Utile other hope remains
than that the death of this refpe<slahle peo
ple wiil be as glorious as their life ; that
they will fell their independence as dearly as
they bought it. But why despair of a
brave and virtues people who appear de
termined to meet the impending danger
with a countenance emulous of their ancient
renown ?
The United States—what is their filia
tion ? Their sovereignty trampled in the
dust and their commerce bleeding at every
pore, speak in loud accents the spirit of op
pression and rapine, which charatterifes the
ufurperg of France. But of this a diilinft
view isrequifite and will be taken.
In these transactions we difeover ambition
and fanaticifm marching hand in hand—
bearing the ei.figns of liypocrify, treache
ry and rapine. The dogmas of a falfeand
fatal creed second the weapons of ambition.
Like the prophet of Mecca, the tyrants of
France press forward with the aleoran of
their faith in one hand, and the sword in
the other—They proselyte, subjugate and
debase—no dillinftion is made between re
public and monarchy—all mull alike yield
to the aggrandizement of the " great na
tion the didindtivc, the arrogaut appella
* finpljrc! amonfl thcnil.
+ th-lali tcctniiLt, Imae o' ihrir most indepen
dent ctl I .:« hive been l{i2:d »„d i Wl . r j., R , e< |
for t 'i P (.Oiilhtutuinil exerctle ot ll>eir opiuioii
t ■.c they no: French af!e
■bcprclffcfrtion lately a {Turned by France to assert in j
the face of nations her ftiperiority and afcen- |
dcHcy. Nor is it a mere title with which
vanity decorates itfelf.— It i« the substantial
claim of dominion.— France, swelled to a
gigantic fire and aping ancient Rome, ex
fcVpt in her virtues, plainly meditates the
e.ontrol of mankind, and is a&ually giving
tlie„law to nations. Unless they qnickly
rouse and compel her to abdicate her inso
lent claim, they will verify the t ruth of that
philosophy, which makes man in his natur
al (late a quadruped, and it will only re
main for the milerable animal, converting
his hands into paws, in the attitude of prone
fubmtflion to offer his patient and fcrvil?
back to whatever, burthens the Lordly ty
rants of France may think fit to impose.
TITUS MANLIUS.
From the Columbian Cent'incl.
To the Writer of the piece signed A Re
publican, in Monday's Chronicle..
S,R » . . •
AS I had no other objeft in remarking
on the piece fignedhy you in a former Chr
onicle, th in to deleft your falfe (latements
and expose them to the pablie, foit was to
tally indifTeient to me whether my observa
tions met your no ice or t- at < f any other
of the Clir iiicle paragraphifts.—Much less
did it Concern me whether your noticing
them, arose from the recommendatory pa
ragraph of the Editor, or the weight of the
observations themselves. For merely felling
the truth I did not wish a compliment nor
had I any reason to dread censure. I (hould
not now pay pay any attention to you* se
cond piece, did I not find the fame aflerti
ons advanced without evidence, and the
fame attempt at deception, with only a little
variation in the mode. Contidered in the
lijjht of an answer to my observations, evrey
one will perceive there ii nothi g in it that
dtfervesthe name. If any one (hould read
your piece an<i not mine, he would conclude
mine to have been a treatise on the advanta
ges cf the trade with Great-Britain, and
an effort to (how that the balance was in
our favour. —Your'ti being only a humble at- J
tempt to disprove such a d<s& ine. This '
evasion, Sir, shall not answer your purpose.
I will ptrfevere in expefing you, and will (
{how your fellow-citizens, that with all your '
hypocritical cant you are ignorant of their
true inteteds, and by base insinuations are
<1 riving to alienate their affetljons from that
government which ifliey are to pro
test, and which in return is to them pro.
duitive of the greatest blefiings. As you
still pcrfift in boldly asserting " that the
security of Britifli manufadlures is the sole
objefl now contemplated by arming." • I
mull 1 e more explicit with yon, and I af
firm that vour position is wholly untrue.—
Yon well know that it is not solely in conse
quence 1 « the late French decree (of which
you perlilt in lcavingout the most important
to wit, the coofifcalion of the (hip
for being only the carrier of an article of
Britilh produce or merchandize, that arm
ing is e nteniplated. You W/ know, Sir,
and if you had any other intention than to
dece ve, you wonld admit, that the business
of aiming was taken up in Congrcfs, before
the decree referred to, had reached Ameri
ca, an<J that the conlideratian of the fubjefl
was poftpoticd only until official advices
could be obtained from our envoys at Paris.
You know that many considerations much
more important than that decree, some of
which I mentioned ai?4 which you could
not deny, for I am sure you would had you
been able, loudly call upon us to aim, not
for the purpose which you and other ftch
Repulliians pre'end, to make war on France
no Sir, but in defence of those rights
which the law of nations secures to ns; and
which France hcrfelf in the 27th, article of
her treaty wi h u> has acknowledged and
confirmed. Why then do y< u attempt to
call into aftion any latent prejudices wHich
may remain against the British, and by fatfe
ly pretendi' g hat our government is hos
tile to Franc , ltrive to beget a diftrtift fa
tal to that unanimity which at this crisis i 3
indispensable to our existence. - What good
motive can afluate you or your friends,
when you carefully keep ont of view the ag
gieflions which Fiance if daily heaping on
us, and gravely tell people that our govern
ment arc deceiving them ; that the French
arc treating ns only as we defcrve ; and that
they will presently be called on to pay e
normous taxes " to defend a trunk of ib
bons, a box of hats, or a cafe of Ihoes."
Can you doubt, fir, hat when the people
fee thrfe attempts to roiflead them, they
can withhold their indignation from the
authors ?
You lay tint " English produce and English
manafadlurcs »re the only articles fpe< ified as
liable to capture by the French." This is not
true, 'mlet. you maintain that American fhipi
and their appurtenances are English produce
and manufactures ; for they also by the dtcree
are declared j-oi d and lawful prize. There is
therefore jn abfordity in your asking the quef.
tion, " is it for the intercft of the United States
to make war againd ' ranee for the ohlainment
of these articles It U a queflinn which no
one but youffelf wr«id ask, and you are welcome
to the exclusive right of giving the answer.
Yctir diiTeitation on the difartvantages of the
Dtitilh trade is 'otally foreign from the business
of arming.it has nothing to do with that quef
tion. ' 1 lannot help obfetving, however, on
the variance between yon and ot'ers of your
fraternity, from the doflrine laid down bythe
pbilo/opber JfffcrJon, that arch pontiff of the
•rights of man —he declares that we are not ma
tured to become a manufafluiing country —that
until we hive a redundancy rf labourers, the
ctiltivitit g the foil is our proper employment,
and thnt while the prtre of labour is so high,
we can better afford to import than to manu
faflure. Truly you are unworthy difciplei of
so goi d a maftcr to preach tie c ntrary dofl
rinr. Another paragraph is worthy of notice,
it is this— •* The French hive seen proper to
prevent the further arrival of British produce or
manufactures into this and if we fluJied
onr real interest.we should applaud the measure
rather than incur the expences of a war to
counteract it." This language is preoifely that
employed !>r Mr. Monroe, and therefore was
to he expected from those who defend him-
I!e told the directory " That if in their opin
,.n it produced any lelid good to tb< republic
todifregard the 13d and 14th articles of the
treaty, the American government and bis coun
trymen would not only bear with the departure
with patience bill with pkafufe." The lan
guage of your argument is this, whereas the
people of Ameriit have been, ever since the
lirll settlement of the c iuntry, in the habit of
carrying on a molt pernicious and ruinous trade
with the kingdom of Great-Britain and its de
pendencies without discovering its pernicious
tendency —and whereas it is abundanily mani
feft that this fatal fyftein carrying in its train
poverty with all its attendant ill», has ot late
years increased to a rnnft ahrming degree,
may tie seen bv the impoverished condition ot
our citizens and the decayed and ruinous (late of
all our io« ns which have had any concern there
in—and whereas this trade if not tpeedily (top
ped mud end in the diflru<stion of our country.
We therefore the exclisfive patriots and republi
cans of America, do most heartily rejoice that
our generous allies the French, whole sagacity
has led them to discover the. mifchiefs of wh ch
our citizens were ignorant, and to which we
are fubjeft from this source, and who a<ft from
no other motive than a disinterested regard to
u >, have at length determined to interfere in our
behalf by 11 preventing the further arrival of
Britifb produce or manufactures into tins coun
try, and we furthermore render them our hear
ty thanks that lor the more r-ffafiual prevention
of this traffick, they ire f« obliging as t,o appro
priate such pioperty to their own life and t >
make prizes of the (hips and appurtenances em
ployed therein, and kindly to can y our mari
ners into captivity, by which we are rcliev.-d
from the noily clamours of a chfs of men, who
are so stupid as not to fee the jultice or pjl.cy
of a measure, which drips them of their earn
ings and throws them on the companion of
(Grangers for subsistence." You alk me what
was my language when the British were taking
our vefTels—the fame it is now, and hid the
court of Great-Britain treated the envoy who
was ihen sent, wiih the fame contemptuous a
hufe, which the directory have heaped on Mr.
Pinckney and his colleagues—there can be 1 ttle
doubt that the voice of indignation would have
been heard from one end of the continent t> the
other. Inflead of a party like ti.at which we
now find juftifyin? every aggrefiion of the
French the vote for arming, would have been
unanimous. Yau fay the British have in their
hands 5,000,000 of pirated property ; the asser
tion is not true —if it were, how many millions
I of pirated property have the French in their
I hands ? and 1 venture'to jflert that more money
i has already betn paid to our citizens by the
Britilh for illegal captures than ever <tw7/bepaid
by the French, although the amount in their
, hands is much the greatest. Yes Sir, Ido call
1 the terms British manufactures and ye»ii amy
from your unceasing repetition of them, ajin
-1 gle which you and your party have bee* cou
) ftantly ringing in our ears fur years pad, and
thetocfin with which yon threaten us, would
ibe far more peasant —it would at least afford
I some variety.
You repeat that preGdent Adams and his son
1 have received 80,000 dollars within two years
of the public money, which you fay I do not de
ny. I supposed the faifhood too glaring to need
a denial Left you should triumph in your
fuppafed faccefs. I now tell you that your aflfer
| tion is falfe, and the intinuation with which it is
accompanied, infamous. That they have re
ceived each of them the'compenfatious allowed
1 them by law for their important fervicej I pte
fume : To fiy that either of them have receiv
ed more than that, with the insinuation that
they have improperly received it, is an afTertion
so frandalotis, that nothing but a habit ofcalum
-1 riating eve y thi.g that is virtuous could have
! induced you to advance.
You finifh your observations, with borrowing
my concluding paragraph —I allure you, Sir, I
am willing to abide that test ; the people will rea
dily diftingni(h characters j they have long dif
j covered a system of undeviating warfare, carri
i ed on by y.,u and your party, against the gov
: ernment and its administration, whoever might
beat the head. The venerabli Washington,
whom they all love, has not escaped your ca
lumpies. The- p;op!e, Sir, have long known,
; that no measure of the administration has escap
ed oppMition and abnfe—knowing as they do,
that the affections of the people conflitnte the
firmed basis of a republican government; they
have beheld with just indignation your.constant
attempts to rob them of that fnpport, by attri
buting the most corrupt motives to those in
whose abilities and integrity they have chosen
' to confide. No man ever came into ofljee at
acrifismore important anil difficult, than the
1 President of the United States, or with purer
1 views. To refill the inroads of foreign lnflu
ence, and quiet the clamours of dsmedic faction,
was an arduous talk, in which he de erved the
aid of every true American. But what has been
the fail —The people have seen you and your
party continually reviling this virtuous nun,
and every measure of his admi.iiftration —bo
! means have been thought too base to destroy
their confidence in his probity and good inten
tions; the lowed ridicule has been resorted to
, with a view to leflen him in the esteem of his
fellow citizens ; no allowance has been made
for the difficult situations in which he has been
called to afl ; he has been called a tory, a roy
alist, the dupe of Britilh induence —ihfin'iations
, have been made that his sole' aim is to secure
honor and profit to himfelf and family, and he
1 has been invariably hunted and pursued, is if
! he was the avowed enemy of his country, and
by those too who kniiu that his whole life has
been condantly employed in promoting thehap
pinefs of his fellow-citizens, and of mankind.—
1 The wretches who have traduced him, stand
!in awe of his virtues. You, as an individual,
j may find some support in the patronage which
\ condut9 like yours may receive, from yourbre
j thren at the southward ; but as a citizeu of Maf
-1 fachufetts, this support will not avail you ; the
1 people of this Commonwealth, who unanimouf
iy voted for Mr. Adams as President, and whom
you dnte not call royalists and tones, kr.o v how
to despise yon ; in the hour of danger they will
d ag you from your skulking place, and cxpefe
you to the fsorn and contempt of your fellow
citizens. MARCUS.
PORT WINE,
In pipes, hogftieads and quarter casks,
Or A SUPERIOR qUALITY,
Just imported, in the Henrietta, P. P. Schmidt,
matter, from Oporto,
ALSO 9 ON HAND,
300 bbls. New-York and Boston Beef
Qn. ens' Ware in crates
Blankets in bales
Guns alTorted in cases, CutlafTes, Swords, &c.
For Sale by
THOMAS V JOHN KETLAHD.
Walnut fireet wharf.
April 11. tt t
A great Bargain.
WILL fiE SOLD, if applied for immediately,
Twenty Thousand Dollars in Bills of Cre
dit, upon intsrcA at fiv* per cent, per annum new
lodged in the Treafusy, and endorsed by the Unit
ed States, with a promise to " pry the intercft an
nually." inquire at th* office of
THJMAS McENYEN^Co.
/prilir. 3t
CON G R ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, April 9.
(Concluded frim yjltftlay i Gaxctte.)
Mr. Sewall then moved that the com
mittee go into the consideration of a resoluti
on reported on the Bth of March," for appro
priating a sum of money for fortifying the
ports and harbours of the United States.
It was accordingly read
Mr. Macon wished to know to what ex
tent it was wi(he3 to carry these fortifica
tions ?
Mr. Sewall thought it bed to leave this
business, in some measure, to thedifcretion of
the Prelident of the United States, and for
this purpose, he proposed to amend the re.so
lution, by adding the following words, " and
that the P'eJiJcni if the United States be autho
rized to make such additional ar.d other fortifica
tion!, as the common defence may seem to re
quire."
Mr. Macon was apprehenlive that all the
money expended on this objeit would be
thrown auay. It had heretofore been fuc
cefsfiilly (hewn that the mod expenlive works
of this kind iri the United States were wholly
useless, from the r improper fituauon. Be
lides, he d.id not think fortifications were
found of much use in the late war ; he knew
only of two iyftances in which effectual reiif
tance was made by them. It would be seen
that in Europe fortifications were now less
attended to than they had heretofore been.
Indeed, he believed, if the United States
were to go into an extefiiive scale of fortifi
cation, the revenues of the country would
not be equal to.it, and he thought money
might be much moieadvantageoully expend
ed.
Mr. S. Smith allowed some of the forti
fications of the Union might have been impro
perly placed; but could not agree with the
gentleman from North-Carolina as to their in
utility. At the lalt felfion, Mr. S. said, there
remained an unexpended balance of 22,000
dollars for this object, and Congress then ap
propriated 1 i5,ooodollar» more. But a finall
part of this money, lie observed, had been ex
pended. The reason which tlie Secretary of
War gives for this is, that he did not think it
proper to expend more, because we had not
men to fill the fortifications when they (hould 1
be ready to receive them. He wished the Se
cretary of war had not cxerctfed this opinion,
but had laid out the money as directed. The
feled committee, he said, had taken into view
the several places to which it would be
proper to attend, which he supposed would
be enumerated when a bill was brought in.—
The sum which it was supposed would be
wanted in addition tof the money already in
hand, was estimated at 115,000 dollars. The
amendment was intended to empower the Pre
sident to ere£t a post at the Chefapealc, which
he believed, ftom the account given of the
situation by gentlemen from that quarter,
would be very proper.
The quefiion on the amendment was put
and carried.
Mr. Da-yton (the Speaker) approved of
the resolution ; but he hoped when the Se
lect Committee reported a bill, they would
be prepared to give some information as to
two points ; firft, as to the cetTion of jurif
diition of lhe places whereon forts are to be
erefted, to the United States ; and secondly,
as to the instances in which tho United States
have purchased the foil without the previpus
consent of the state to which it belonged.
He was by no means prepared, at present, to
consent to the laying out of any money on
fortifications, the prior cefiion of the jurisdic
tion of which had not been made to the Uni
ted States. He did not know but he might
eventually be obliged to wave this objection,
but he hoped this information would be giv
en".
Mr. J. Williams supposed it would be
proper to instruct the committee to the effect
which the gentleman" from New-Jersey had
dated, if he wished them to report in the way
he had mentioned. But he did not think this
was a time to enquire into this fubje't ; but
to fortify the coalt in those places where it is
mo# vulnerable, independent of any other
cenfiderjtion.
The resolution was put and carried, there
being 71 members in its favour.
Mr. Sewall said, it v:as proper that Con
gress should come to some determination with
respect to the fortifications in the port of N.
York, H3 thelegiflatureof that state is now (it
ting, and when they know the determination of
Congress, they can a£t accordingly. He cal
led up, therefore, for consideration the report
of the committee for the protection of com
merce and the defence of the country, on the
memorial of the New-York Chamber of Com
merce.
The report having been read, the resolution
recommended was agreed to.
The committee rose and reported the reso
lution?, and being agreed to, a bill was direct
ed to be brought in accordingly.
On motion of Mr. Livincston, the
house went into a committee of the whole 011
the bill for the relief of sick and disabled sea
men, and after adopting some amendments,
the bill was agreed to, and ordered to be read
a third time to-morrow. This bill proposes
the payment of 20 cents a month by every fea
inan in the United States towards the I'upport
of hospitals for lick and disabled feainen.
Mr. D. Foster called up tordecifio 1 the
report of the committee of claims on a resolu
tion directing them to enqu.rc into the expe
diency of amending the laws respeCting inva
lid pensioners ; which was accordingly read
and concurred in. It was against any altera
tions in the exiftinglaws.
The Speaker laid before the house the
petition of James Greenleaf, of this city,
praying for an alteration in the laws respeCt
ing insolvent debtors. Referred to the com
mittee who had this subjeCt under considera
tion.
Mr 1 . Sewall, from the committee for the
protection of commerce and the defence of
the country, made a farther report as follow :
" That it is expedient to authorize the Pre
sident of the United States, to errect fortifi
cations in such ports and places near the fe.i
co«ft, as in his judgment (hall be requilite and
■advantageous for the common defence.
" That a considerable addition is reqttifite
to be made to the corps of artillerists and en
gineers already efiablilhed, to be employed in .
the several fortifications which have been and
which shall be erected on or near the sea
coast.
" That a large supply of cannon, arms and
ammunition is necell'ary to be immediately
provided for the fervicc of the United States.
" An addition to a refoive heretofore re
ported, and under the conGderation of the
house, will eft'eCt the firft mentioned object.
" For the others, the committee recoip
mend the following resolutions :
" Resolved, that the Prefidentof the Unit
ed Srates be authorized to raise ahd eflablifh
companies of artillerists and engineers,
in addition to the present eftablifhtrent.
" Resolved, that the sum of dol
lars be appropriatnd by law for the pr.rchafe
of cannon, arms and ammunition, for the
service of the United States."
x This report was referred to the committee
of the whole on the state of the union.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made an unfavourable report on the
petitions of John Nelson and Sarah Ruffel,
which was Concurred in.
On motion of Mr. Litinoston the house
went into a committee of the wh»le on the re- |
port of the committee of commerce and manu
factures on the petition of Pierre Ampoix,
who prays for thfe allowance of certain draw
backs. The report is favourable j but as it
did not appear to have been printed, the com
mittee rose, in order to give time for the
printing of it.
On motion of the fame gentleman, the
house went into a committee of the whole on
a favourable report on the petitions of Reuben
Smith and Nathan Strong, which being agreed
to, the committee rose, and a bill was order
ed to be brought in accordingly.
A meflage was received from the Pre(i(lent
of the United States, informing the house,
that he had approval! and signed an act to con
tinue in force the aCt prohibiting for a limit
ed time, the exportation of arms and ammu
nition,- and for encouraging the importation
thfreof ; an act for the relief of refugees from
Canada and Nova Scotia ; and an act for fe
curing'the better collection of the duties on
wines, spirits, and teas. Adjourned.
Imported in the (hip America,
. AND FOR SAL*. BY
G. G. SCHULTh' ESS,
At Messrs. Jos. Antuony & Oo's, frore,
30 bags heavy black Pepper
Book Muflm and 1-2 yard wide
Check Hhk r s. romal Hhkfs.
Blue Percales ami blue Socrotion
One bale blue Cloth 24 punj.
Vitepaleon Hbk s jS nd 26 pun].
One baie Betilhas—alfo,
l : our bbls Sago
Eight logs y
A fsw boards Sattinwood
april 11 *eo%t
A Great Bargain. -
FOR SALF. ON POTOMAC,
In the *>tate of Virgiria, and county ot Northum
berland,
AS beautiful a Seat as any cd the River, con
taining between seven and eight hundred a
ores of I.and, which command# a molt delightful
prcfpeA of Cean River, Potomac and the Bay—*
about a third part of which is low ground*, sur
rounded with Filh, Oyfler®, and Wii4 Fowl, with
harbor, and as convenient for trade and in
formation as any on the lo\ver part of the river,
an<f liesfo compact, that about two mile 9 of fenc
ing wculd inclose the whole from river to river.
The Hon. Walter Jones Esq. now in Congress,
lives within a few miles ps the place,—toho will
do me the favor to delcribe it, and make my terms
known to any gentleman inclining to purchase.
HUDSON MUSE.
Virginia, Urbanna, march 2.?. ail —cojt
, 0- The iailing of the ihip Swiit
Packet, is poftponedtill Thursday next, nth inft.
on account of the bad weather the last week,
april to
Notice—Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of '* the cor
poration for . the relief of poor arid diftrefied
pi elbyterian ministers and the poor and diflrefled
widows and children of presbyterian rniniflers,"
that a meeting of said corporation is to be hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the second presbyterian church in the
city of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such
business as may then be brought before the
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary "of the Corporation.
April 7. tawti6m
Pennsylvania Holpital,
4th mo. 7th, 1798.
rHE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hospi
tal, are t© meet ©n the seventh day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
de& twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
ensuing year.
By order of a hoard of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Stc'ry.
April 7 tltF.
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
THE books will continue open from day to
day, between the hours of 10, A. M. and
2, p. m. for receiving fubferiptions, at the City
Hall. Those who mean to fubferibe, will please
to come provided wiili cash or bank notes, as
checks cannot he taken.
D. CALDWELL, Secretary
to the Commijftoners.
April to. dtf
SILVER WATCHES?
Cash will be given for any quantity of low
priced SILVER WATCHKS, by applying im
mediately at No. 15 South Fifth street, between
Market and Chtfnut flreets
April io. * 6t
Now Opening,
At William M'Laws Saddle Manufactory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general affortirient of Horseman's
Piliols, direct frem the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Caftou.-h Boxes, Va
lices. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
!'runk3, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate ofe, and at a redaeed price—For
file by JAMES YARD.
April 4. daw
" TO BE LET, -
Andpojjejfwn given immediately,
A genteel three itory brickHoufe,
N . 7, North Eighth street,
24 feet front an ■ 5$ feet detp, with a handsome
Garden. Enquire at No. 128 Spruce street.
April 4 5
Juit Received,
AND FOR SALE BY
ISAAC HARVEY, Ju'zr.
(No. ?, South Water . c tre«t,)
A Quantity of Georgia Cotton.
ALSO,
Prime Aux-Caycs Molafies
Kaifin. in kegs.
Sugar in barrels—and
A fewtoniof Nicaragua wood.
_ 4th mo. 4th {aw
For Sale,
»r THE SUBSCRTBSR, MO 10, CHISKtU STREET,
11 Catks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold oa realonable ttrms 011 a fliort
credit.
Robert Henderjon.
*P r '' * am&S4W
By yesterday's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 10.
Yesterday arrived here from Falmouth, fa
50 days, his Britannic Majesty's Packet
Harlequin, commanded by capt. Roberts,
with the February mail. Our London pa
pers are to the 13 th of February.
On the jth February, a very numerous
and refpedtable meeting, took plfcce at the
Exchange. The Lord Mayor was unani
mously called to the chair. The objedt of
the meeting was, the voluntary contributi
ons which had beeu opened at the Bank un
der the authority of an a£t of Parliament.
The Lord Mayor opened the business. by
observing—The inveterate animosity
which the enemy had profeffed, and the
holt lie meafurcs which they openly avowed,
rendered it the duty of every man who had
the iu;ereil of his country at heart, to come
forward to arm it with the mean; of repel
ling every attempt, and demonstrates the
propriety of the objstl of the meeting so
clearly as to fupercede the necessity of a
comment." After several highly patriotic,
able, and animated fpeechts, the Lord
Mayor left the chair, when Mr. alderman
Watson proposed THREE CHEERS
for OLD ENGLAND, which was cor
dially, and with patriotic shouts imariimouf
ly agreed to, and rfie fame ftjr the KING,
proposed by Mr. Kernble.
LONDON, February 9.
In the Council of Five Hundred on the
firft of February, it was decreed,
1 ft, That henceforth all objefts relative
to the marine and the army of England shall
be the great order of the day, and have
priority over all others.
2d, That the committee of marine (hall
employ itfelf in preparing an aft of navi
gation, which (hall secure the liberty of
1 commerce and the rights of maritime nati
ons at the period of a general peace-
Various rumoursarein circulation through
out France, relative to disputes among the
Dire&ory, and new projects of a chauge in
their conllitution.
It appears that general Angereau has
been apppvinted to the command of the ar
my on the frontiers of Spain, audit is an
nounced as a trust of great importance.
By our letters from Dover, we are in
formed that the flag of truce which failed
with the Prufiian Minister, was captured by
a French privateer, and the seamen put in
irons. .f ; v
February 12.
This morning we received French papers
up to the 7th inft. the contents of which
we have detailed at considerable length.
One article in them deserves particular no
tice, viz. a motion made by Guillemardettin
the council of 500 for altering the mode of
drawing by lot for a fucceflor to the mem
ber of the executive direftory, who goes
out annually. The nomination of the
succeeding member, as the law now stands,
is veiled in the legislative body, which com
mences its fitting after the new third are
chosen ; but Guillemardet proposes -that it
(hall be veiled in future in the legislative
body before that third are changed.
It appears that the Cisalpine troops, who
were marching to Rome to avenge the in
lult offered to the French republic by the
death of Duphot, have met with*a small
check from some armed ipeafanu,! who at
tacked them, and that between two and
three hundred of them have been killed and
wounded. . •
Although several (hips are hourly expe£-
ed from Rotterdam and Amflerdam, none
have arrived finee the late Revolution took
place. This circumstance gives rife to ma
ny conjeftuits; but it is not improbable
that by this time all trade between Holland
and this country has been forbidden.
VOLVNTAnr CONTRIBUTIONS, isfc.
Mr. Rqfe, Iseol. —Mr. Nepean, 1500
the Bifliop of Durham, 3000 —Bishop of
Bath & \Vcll*j 1200—the Bishop of Lin*
coin, looo—Lord Bolton, 1500 Lord
Ardtrn, 40001. in cash. The Lord Chan
cellor, 60001. per annum during the war ;
aoool. from his emoluments as Chancellor,
and the whole of his income as Speaker to
the Houie of Lords—Duke of Marlbo.
rough, s®ool. and MarquisTownfend 12001.
per annum during the war The Earl of
Cariifle 40001. and the Bifliop of Litchfield
and Coventry ioool—Tile Magistrates and
Council&of Edinburgh, 2000 I.—The Skin
ner's Company, ioool. to be continued an
nually during the War.—The Navy Cbb,
8001. the Society of Clement's Inn, 200
guinesj and the Eafl-India Volunteer*, a
day's pay.
Royal Perth Volunteers, 500 guineas
The honorable society of Barnard's Inn,
2501. Corporation of Northampton, jool
the hotifc of Meux and Co. of Liquor-pond
ftreet, ioool. a year, to be paid annually
during the war.
Feb. 13.
The unfortunate city of Lyons seems
doomed to fuffer new calamities ; by a de
cree of the DireAory, it has been declared
in a Hate of siege.
Thoaccounts from Paris and Spain por
tend important events.
Among the lad fubferiptions at the bank,
are lord Loughborough, 60001. per annum
during the war ; the society of the Inner
Temple, ioool. MefTrs. Goldfmid, 1500!.
Mr. Coutts, ioool. Mr. Child, ioocl.
Mr. Drummond, ioool. Mr. Hoare, ioool.
Mr. Williams, ioool. Mr. Newman, ioool.
Mr. Moffatt. ioool. Sir fccorge Prefcott,
500 . Mr. Hankey, 500]. Mr. S<evenfon,
jocl. a gentleman, 5001. and his two
daughters, 200k each, during the war;
■he gentlemen of the navy pay office, 5001.
the pursers of the (hips at Plymouth, jol.
e . ac ' l cor P<Jration at Reading, 3091.
the officers and ferrants of the Foundling
hospital, 331 12 9 : Mr. Rose, 15001. Mr.
Nepeafi, 1 jqol. thebifhop«fDuiharm,3oool.the bifttop of Bath and Wells, 12001. the
bifiiop of Lincoln, toool. lord Bolton,
15001. lord Arden, 40C0I. in ca(h : the
hon society or Bernard's Inn, 1501. cor
poration ot Northampton, 5001. the house
of Meux and Co. of liquor pond ftreetj
ioool. a year, to bt paid annually during
t.he war : the Queen, yoool. a fubfeription
formed at Edinbtugh, which in two hours
after being opened, r?:fed 19,0001. Sir
William Langham, icoal. Prince Ernest,
3001. duke of Marlborough, ycool. and
marques Towrtfend, nobl. per annum,
during the war ; the ea;-l ofCarlifie, 4COOI.
and th<- bifbop of Litchfield and.Coventry,
ioaol. the GoUfmith's company, 10 01.
thchoufe of Claude Scott, Son, and Co.
ioocl. Mr. Claude Scott, iocol. Mr. Mills,
of Streatham, 5001. Mr. Nicholfon, Corn,
hill, 2501. Navy pay office, 5001. the
Wadfworth militia, two days pay ; the
Weftminlter militia, quartered at Sunder
land, two days pay ; besides innumerable
smaller sums from boarding schools, ser
vants, laborers, &c. Lord Weftmoreland's
servants, 301 10 <.
The admiralty we understand have come
to a resolution ot employing fifteen post
captains and seventy matters and command
ers who ai eto be Rationed along the coait for
the purpose °f commanding the men enrol
ltd as sea fencihles.
Thlc floating batteries for the defence of
the harbour of Waterford, Kinfale, Li
merick, Galway, Wexford, and other
ports in Ireland, have all arrived fafe at
at their (lations. Some of these are of 50
guns each, which with the numerous gun
boats and the disposition of the military
forces on rrnear the fea-coa(t, leave no tootn
to fear any attempt of an enemy's invasion.
The unfortunate Pn'ncefs, De Leon, of
the illustrious house 01 Montmorency, was
taken on board a Hamburgh packet, lalt
week by a French privateer, and carried a i
prisoner into Ctdiis. ;
The Leydctv G izctte announced that a |
rich Spanidi prize, with its Convoy, has
been taken by the Engl:?!) fquadrcn block- |
ading the port eifvCad'Z. ;
Lord Bridpovt— Lordlhip.'yi few j
days fiace, talking on the '.'object 'of the j
threatened invasion h? the French, simply
observed, that they might come as they
could ; for 1 is own pa'i't, he only undei
took to fay, tha by G -they ihouk! not
come by water.
PARIS, 18 Pluviofe, February 6. ]
Geperal of divlfion Marefcot, well knotirn j
by tbf ability which he displayed at the sie
ges of Toulon, 'Quofnoy, Valenciennes,
Maeftrtcht, and in the direftion of the
works in the invasion of Holland, is appoin
ted .cammander of the engineers in the ex
pedition against England. The generals of
brigade of the fame body are citizens Bof
gerard, Chaffelop. chief of artillery in the
army of Italy, and Dufalga, an officer high
ly elteemed by Buonapsrte, and loll a
leg in the army of the Rhine.
A few days ago several companies were
afTembled in one of our squares. Cartridges
■were dillributed to the foldiets, and the
watch word changed three times.
Two new Deputies, Flips and Annieck,
have quitted th? Batavian Convention.
19 Pluviofe, February 7.
Maflena is appointed commander in chief
of the French troops which are to Ije de
tached from the army in the pay of the Cis-
Republic, in order to occupy the
Roman territory. General Berthier re
mains with the command of those attached
to the Cisalpine Republic. The Ligurian
Dire&ory is formed, and confifls of 4 mem
bers : they are citizens Liflardti, of port
Maurice ; Louis Corvetto, advocate in Ge
noa ; Ambrose Molfino, advocate in Gen
oa'; Auguftin Magfione, merchant.
Boiffy d'Auglas, Dumolard, Duplantier,
"Sc several other Deputies, were at Lausanne
three days before the entry of our troops
into the Pays de Vaud, bot the place of
their retreat is not yet known.
The minister of the Interior addreffecl,
on the xlt inflant; a-circular letter'to the
Central Ailminiftrators of Departments, and
to the Commifi'aries at those Administra
tions, to c all ail their attention to the neces
sity of G'ialy executing the law prohibiting
English merchandize. " Attach (said he)
the° mark of incivifm to all those who are
under the influence of this liberticide mania
of giving a preference to Englifli produc
tions. Exercise great fevcrity in all places
submitted to your j'urifdidion ; let the
Theatres particularly occupy your care.—
Do not fuffer the law to be publicly infult
<>d there, by the appearance of any Englifli
merchandize. Let the arms of ridicnle and
reafoh be employed byturns against all those
bad citizens who would not blush to pay tri
bute to England."
The Minister of War has issued orders
for the establishment at Brtdfcls cf the
Magazines belonging to the right wing of
the army of England, of which the line
extends from Calais toOftend. Ihe Mir.if
ter of Marine has sent into the latter port
some Matter Builders to superintend the
building of gun-boati, which is going on
at that port.
The approaching elc&ions appear to be
viewed by the Directory with ANXIETf.
0- The City Dancing Aifembly,
In-elided for 1 hurf.Uy evciiiiie flext is unavpida dy
poftponcd urtd Friday, the 13th of April wheu the
kr clrfed.
To be Let t
/And pofTefTion given on the ift of May)
A centeel three story brick Houie,
»i ffe, front, 4=> f«t deep, with fcack buildings
and ftibles.iU prcfept in the trnure of Major Jack
son.' Enquire at 187 South Third ftrect.
April a. -
~~TAL7 peire.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Fetre,
For Sale by the Subfcrihers.
James C. & Samuel W- F'Jher,
N0.13, Arcli Stret t
. march 31
X!ic CsasCtte.
| PHILADELPHIA,
' THURSDAY EVENING, April 12.
We are again disappointed by the non
arrival of the Eastern post this day.'
j In the House of Representatives of the U
nited States, ye/lerday, after attending to fame
private business', the house went into a commit -
j tee of the whole on the bill fuppleipentary to the
j ad providing for the further defence of the ports
j and harbours of the United States ; and after
j a pretty long but desultory debate, the bill was
; agreed to, and ordered to be engrojfed for a
I third reading to-morrow. By this bill,
1250,000 dollars are appropriated for this ob
| jefl, irt addition to upwards of 90,000 dollars,
j which remain unexpended of a former appropri
i ation.
Mr. Harper laid a resolution on the table,
I propojing the appointment in the War-Depart
< ment, and subordinate 'hereto, of an officer for
the immediate fuperintendance and conjlrnliion
offortifications.
' Married, on Tyefday morning, Chevalier
: Don Carlos Marline* D'7'rujo, Minifler
Plenipotentiary from the. court of Spain, to the
United States, to Mil's Sarah M'Kean,
daughter of Thomas M'Kean, Esq. Chief
j'-ftice of thejlate of Pennfylvdnia.
1 ExtraS of a Letter from Majfaclivfctts, dated
j April 3.
j " I admire the firm spirit and sincere
style of the new adminiilration : The con
trast of this with the unfpeakablc debafe
| ment of the house, illullrates the qualities
' of the Prefidentand his miniflers at the ex
pcnce of our country's hon<sr and fafety.
Fcr I cannot but exp :£t Europe will despise
us as much as the French do. lam certain
Mr. Pickeri'ig -is exceedingly popular and
j very defetvedly. His arfwers to Adet and
the little Spaniard, discover an ability
•j that is not denied,by any body. The vigor
•■of..bit! /ty-Ic and. manner produce an effect
hi'gitiy pleating, which even-ordinary read
era perceive and are delighted with. Mr.
Wokott top is highly efteemcd and ia in
deed a man of sterling worth and'good
sense. Of Mr. M'Henry I know .little,
but think well of him. The public there
fore is well disposed towards our executive
government, and will if need be fuppdrt it.
The jacobins know the crisis will overthrow
them or the government, and it is with that
forefight they flirin Roxbury and Milton.
I heard a neighbor _ shrewdly fay of gener
al Heath's speech in Roxbury town-meet
ing, that he spoke his book, and described
the terrors of war in a manner that no man
could who had not fell them. Is nothing to
be hoped from the house ? Will not the
common danger draw a few to unite with
the government, or do they refolre to fever
■the. tics.of our union ? Vigor and energy, if
the government could display them, would
bring down jacobin apportion to the dud,
and gain a new liability for our future peace
and order.
" This moment 1 hear a report which
I will not and indeed do not believe, that
a dael has taken place between Giles and
Otis, the latter killed on the spot—God
forbid."
ExtraS of a letterfrom a refpeSable mercantile
house in Manc.be/ler, dated February s-, receiv
ed by the Packet.
" It was our intention to have forwarded
your goods very early , but the piiaticil decla
ration of the French has at once advanced in
furane« to 18 and 10 guineas per ct of course
we diredled our broker at Liverpool" to hoH
them for further inftruJlions. A convoy being
appointed to fail from the Downs for America
on the firft of March, and to call at Falmouth
for the Liverpool and Brifiol trade, we'have
good hopes of effecting insurance upon Tolerable
terms ; but as it is yet uncertain whether the
American veflels will have fu'l benefit oftrtn
voy, there seems to be no fettled price—nor do
we yet know whether it wili be more to your
advantage to fend your goudi by a British or
in American ship."
The late French faftion haj diVd, as it li
ved, a violent and disorderly end. The re
cent exposure of the corruption and rapa
city of the infernal Republic, hat proved
to them like the shock of some vast explo
sion. Stupified and confounded, all their
usual art andaddrefs seem to have forfaken
them. Some fragments of the ruin, vainly
attempted at firft to collect the shattered
pieces of the body again into form ; but in
the explosion the connefling principle of the
mass complett annihilation ; and
not even the divine myftrry ef a Prometheus
can again re-iafufe the vital efTence into the
mass. Mazzei may (till remain Vicfc-Pre
fid»nt of the' turbulent and factious ; but
his adherents cut off and his confequenee
deflroyed, he stands an aukward and mifpla
ccd ColoiTiis, bearing on hia forehead the
inftruftivc mmeento, " Troja suit." Old
Minos may rail at the fallen fate of his mas
ters ; but not all his art, nor all the mand
ragora of his aifociate Janus, backed by all
" the'flower of France," can ever restore
the code of iibe'ili famofi.
Time and chance iappeneth to all men.
MR. FENNQ, «
What a dtfirous opportunity of verifying
this Proverb now prifcnts itfelf ! At this awful
erifis of our affairs, the representatives of !hc
people of the United States have it i* their pow
er to merit the eternil gratitude of their coun
try, l>v making all secondary coptirlcraiions
yielJ to die imperious nect-flity of concert in
•ur councils. The experiment of concilia! >iy
meafiires lus been fairly tried and fuund filla
ci jus— the evils of war ran now be rnly averted
by a perfect unanimity of fent'mcnt am.nig
those to whom « e havr intruded trie guaidian
fliip of our deart ft rights. How delirable then
would it be, that a proportion of this nature
fhonld lie made in Cot grrfs, and that in order
to give the grrnttft possible pul>!ui:y to the
jeyiul event, the citizers of Ph.ladrlphia ref
pcflfully invite the members ef both h~.i.fes to a
frugal repiil ; an.! t'leicliy afford 311 opiponu
ui:y to»U partio of bjijing the ha diet of dif
rord. It w6h!J then "vTr. Fenno, became the
: duty of the real irirn Is t"> their counfy, to dis
countenance all pvjbl ; < atior.', tending to deftfoy
the harmony so eAafillfhcd, by reviv.ng
those odious pajty diftinilions. to which we
have hut too much real >n to vtriUute, the o
pininn held in France of our internal w<akne(i.
I would not wifti however to br understood,
that our Gazettes (biuld obl'erve silence is those
cases where our rights as an in 'eptndi-nt oetiple
(hall be violated—on the contrary, I trijft that
every instance of the kind, no matter by what
nation authorised, will with due regard to truth,
be held up as bt fuhjeils of execration
A RKAL FRIUND TO PEACE.
MR. FENNO,
Pray can you tell us the names of the men on
whom X. Y. Z. and tie Lady grounded their hopes
to excite a revolution in America in favor of the
French DireAory ?—lf you can you will ablige
MANY.
Last evening vv.as performed the play of
the Italjan Monk, for the benefit of our
old meritorious veteran Mr. Morris, to an
indifferent audience—" 'tis true 'lis pity,
and pity 'tis 'tis true he merited more a
-1 bundantly our gratitude for a lite worn out
in serving the pu'jlic—The choice he made
in his Bill of Fare, evinces h;s knowledge
of pleasing, find endeavoring to obtain fa
vor. The play, conliderjng it was got up
in a hurry for a benefit, was well performed,
and worked upon the feelings of the audi
enee, to unbounded applauic : had it not
been for a few errors, it might be said, to
be the best performed of any piece vepre
fented this season. It has scenes that in
terest, and the whole attention of
the fpe&ators, and demand approbation.
In the interlude of the "Register Office,"
and the after piece of " Neck or Nothing"
Mr. Bernard appeared to greater advantage
than at any former representation at this
Theatre. PHILO THEATRO.
April 12, 1798.
The Star, a London paper of Feb. 13,
under the head of Hague, January 30,
dates, " that the anglo-American General
Eustace has been arretted at Rotterdam
the motives of his arrest are not knowb." ,
* ' - • < ■
The SALT, made and folii at the different ma
nufa&uring works, an the public icfcrvation, in
the county of Onoodagaj front th<» 20th June,
1797, to the 3d of February, 1798, arjioUnted to
twenty five thousand four hun" fed an 3 seventy four
buwels. The duty at four cents per bufliel, is
icß6 dollars and 96 cents. T
HASTT JUDGMENT /
A meeting has been held at Richmond on the
fubjed of war and peace—one of the Resolutions
is in the following words :
"6. Refolved\ That while we feel ourselves con
tained to express our sentiments- at this eventful
crisis ; we lament, that the information from our
com million er;? in France, which, from the Presi
dent's communication, we expedted to receive, has
been withheld.'*
Citizen Bache, ivithout knowing ivbit ciiiztn Feujbee
bad resolved, in bis Aurora df this morning, charges tht
Federalijls rvitb being unfortunately the authors of the
publication of the dispatches.
fcj" The Stand No. 3, in this day's Ga
zette, will doubtless be read wish serious
attention by every friend to the Utlited
States.
Translated for the Gazette of the United
States—from Leyden papers received by
the Phoenix, capt. Grice, fiom Amster
dam.
TREVISO, in the ci-devant State of Venice,
Jan. 16.
Thid day lieutenant Field Marthal Wallis,
commander in chief of the body of the Im
perial arnay, made a solemn entrance in'o
this city at the head of an Austrian detach
ment to take possession of the place. The
French troops yet heredepart in the evening.
The populace received the linperialifts.with
acclamations—te deum was sung in the Ca
thedral. To-morrow the Anltrians set out
on their march towards Venice.
VENICE, Jan. 17.
The 3ay before yefteWlay Prince Reufs,
lieutenat iield-rtiarflial in the service of the
emperor arrived here, and took up his quar
ters at the palace of the ci-devant procura
teur of St.- Mark Pifani. The greatest
part of the small number of French troops
which were here, departed yesterday and the
day before ; and this day general Serrurier
follows them with the last detachment. We
wait for the Auftrians to make their solemn
entrance which isexpe&ed with the greatest
impatience. Brilliant fetes are preparing
| for their reception—There will be a solemn
j proceflion and exposition of the Host, to
implore the blessing of 'Heaven on our new
sovereign.
Jan. 19.
Yesterday the Austrian troops entered
this city. Field-marshal Wallis arrived in a
! Gondalo at the monastery of St. Stephen
1 Claire about 10 io the morning, and was re
ceived by two extraordinary deputations
who complimented him on his arrival. He
was likewise complimented by a deputation
from the merchants. To this place were
sent seven Barges called Peotes, richly or
namented, it) which the generals Wallis and
Prince Reufs, with their etat-major pursu
ed their way to St. Mark's, about two
thousand' soldiers following in larger barges.
It was with difficulty they could pass thro'
the immeirfi concouife of small boats of eve
ry fort, which joy, cnriofity and example
had colleftcd, and which formed a striking
profpeft. All the houses along the canal
were hung with tapestry without doors, and
an immense people rent the air with cries nf
joy and applause. Arrived at St. Mate's
the convoy was fainted by a triple discharge
of artillery and a of the mui'qnet
ry of the Guard Bi.-urgeoife, who were on
the parade. On die border of thecaual the
the Venetian general Noveller with all the
officers of the troops of the line—also the
ex-patrician Correr, with all the officers of
the marine prcfented themselves.
Field Marjhal Wa!lit \rrpaired to the church
of St. Mark, where fir patriarch attended him
with the rarfed cress, and ceremonial intrtduc
lien—After the celebration of tinajs, the impe
rial troops, with genera! IVoi'lis at thUr head,
paraded an the plate. The air rung with cries
of Vive Caesar ; Vive notre Souverain ! dif
fer thanking the people for this reception, the
general went to the quarters which kail leen
prepared. Entertainments succeeded in the ev
ening. The greatefl part of the.city was illu
minated, as also the nolle theatre of the phte
nix, where prince Reufs appeared, and was re
ceived with new acclimations by a I clajfes of
i people. The whole was terminated by a bah
given by the society of the house o/"Degji Orfei.
| 7he rejoicings continued several days—sun
day a solemn te deum will be celebrated— This
morning field mar Pip! Wallis t after having vis
ited the arsenal, departed to make his entrance
into Padua—The officers of police, and of the
civil and criminal tribunals here, are provifori
ly confirmed.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
THE PIGOU.
By an armed veflcl from Bermuda, we
learn that the (hip Pigou, capt. Clay, was
taken by the French on this coast, retaken
by the British, and fuffered to proceed on
her voyage, and may, be hourly expefted.
ARRIVED days
Ship Bee, Hanfon, Boiirdeaux 70
Brig Elizabeth, Padey, Batavia 120
The Jhip Elizabeth, Solby, now in the riv- [
er from Batavia, left that place the i 9th of
December, and St. Helena the 22 dos Feb.—
The ship Ocean, of and for this t>ori from Cal
cutta, failed from St. Helena two days before
the Elizabeth. Ship Thomas I,'ilf'in, Jar vis, .
from Malaga ; brig Be, of pvflop, 47 days '
from Bourdeaux, and a Jhip and brig names
unknown are below.
The Draper, Collini, si om New-Tori to
—*—;; Providence, Cole; from Providence to
Hamburgh : and Active, Gardner, from Bal
timore to do. are retaken and carried into Ply
mouth.
Lift of French privateers recently captured—.
from Lloyd's Lift, 1-th. 13.
Guns Men Taken by
L'Efpo're, 18 Thalia TVigJ e
Benjamin, 16 do.
Latour, 14 do.
DeGaytrouin, %% 260 Shannon frigate.
LaßonneNouvelle.so 120 Indef.tigable sri t
Vengeur, 16 Pilgrim priv. ship.
Belliqiieux, 18 130 Sea Horse frigate.
of ? Dunkirk j" 16 Sir Edward Pele«-.
La Inconcivable, 10 do.
The Daphne ) , . r . ■
Corvette, 5 Anfon fn S atf *
Th? Morgan, t 50 Childers (loop war.
La Cherie frigt. 26 La Pomona frigate.
La Polierate, 16 |Bo Racoon sloop of war.
Norfolk, ./Ipril 3.
Arrived in Hampton Roads on Sunday,
his Britannic Majesty's (loop of war the Ro
ver, capt. Irving, x 5 days from Antigua,
having under convoy nine fail of American
merchantmen.
Lift of American vsflels spoke with by the
Rover, on her paflage from Antigua.
from
March 19, Fame, fohnfton, Norfolk
21, Jane, Mustard, St. Croix
24, Matilda, "Ellis, Charleston
29, Fothill, Lovell, Wilmington
Cicero, Crocker, Dartmouth
31, Niagara, Paulaing, New-York
On Saturday the fchiv Nancy, captain
Banker went up the Bay to Baltimore, af
ter a paflage of 14 days from Pori-de-Patx.
From a young mad, paffengcr in the above
fchooncr, we are furmi'hed with the follow
ing particulars :
On the 20th February, the ship Nancy,
J capt. Dickfon of this port (when within
three hours fail of the Mole) was captured
by a small French schooner privateer, called
the Porpoise, with one 4 pounder and 40
men, aed sent into Port-de-Paix where vcf
fel and cargo were condemned.
On the 15th February the brig William
Pennock. capt. Hatton was captured on
her paflage from Norfolk to Jamaica by a
French privateer of 6 guns and sent into
Port-de-Paix—veffel and cargo condemned.
Since the above there have alto been cap
tured and sent into that port, Brig Pallas
of and from New-York to Jamaica —cargo
condemned, veflcl cleared, and to fail in a
few days for the bay of Hondurus.
Brig Nancy, from Newbcrn (firft taken
by a Britifli privateer and sent into Turk's
Island, where part of her cargo was fold)
then taken by the French and the beef and
pork condemned ; the reft of the cargo
cleared. .
A fchooner(name unknows) from the
Mole to Philadelphia, waiting for trial.
While, our informant was at Port-dePaix
an embargo was laid on all ve£Tels(privateers
excepted) in consequence ot an expedition
againtl some of the Britifh'ports down the
Bite ; —a week afterthe embargo took place
a number of British prisoners were sent in,
bill they had not returned from the expe
dition when the Nancy failed.
RICHMOND, April 2.
ExtraS of a letter from Philadelphia, dated
March 25.
" Nothingmore has yet transpired in con
gress (ince the President's singular mefl'age.
It has been said, that he received on Thurs
day last some other dispatches, but I can
.not answer for the truth of the report.
Whether he has or has not, we may 'fee
plainly that he has determined on the plan
of giving congress nothing but what he
thinks will shew them the worst fide only,
and tend to irritate and provoke to Yiolent
measures."
[The above extrafl is one among thousand, of
the candid, honejl and patriotic flatemcnts
made by the " exclalives" in and out of
congress.}
NORFOLK, April 3.
A number of merchants of this place,
having Tequefted .jf col. Hamilton, the
Lritith Couful refilling here, to procure
them a convoy : lie intimated the fur:'' trt
admiral Vand'put, commanding the fij'tn
dron now in Hnmptoil RoSds. who fmrrk y
d-ately ordered the Driver Hoop of tvir,
capt. Sayler, for the above purpoft. T!u
sloop of war, with a number ot American
merchantmen, failed on Friday lad from
the roads.
NEW-THEATRF. -
Mr. Francis's Night.
TO-MORROW EVENING, April i 3,
Will ' e prei'ented, a celebrated Corned y, in fi v ©
adU (: oc performed these three years) called,
The Deserteh Daughter.
[Written by Thomas Holcroft, Author of the
Road to Ruin, Stx J
As performing at the 7 b:i irt, in Co-vent Gar
den, London, with tmvcrfol approbation.
Mordent, Mr Marlhjll
Chevril, M r Bersard
Lennox, Mr Fox
Item, Mr Fraacis
Grime, Mr Harwood
Clement, Mr Wtrrell, jan.
Donald, Mr Warren.
Joanna, Mrs. Warfhall
Mrs. Sarfnet, Mrs Frmcis
Mrs Enfield, Mrs L'Eilrar.ge
fiettv, Mrs Dotfor
Lady Ann, Mrs Merry.
End of the Comeift
"DASH ON—KEEP MOVING,"
AN EPILOGUE., in the cluratJler of YOl/fs'G
RAPID—Mr- K rwood.
After which A MEDLEY PANTOMIME
confiding of Sinking, Dancing, Dialogue!
' Spectacle, and of Aflivitv, rtllcd the *
RIVAL HARLEQUINS ;
Or, " If two Men ride upon one Horfeone
mult be behind."
In the rourfe of liie PanUnmije will i, e intro
duced as variety of T/ai.'sfoi maiians, and a
difp ly of Scenery, particularly—
A VIEW OF THE DELAVt'ASi!,
Ardthe UNITE DAT IT £s' A'.?,T FRIO ATS
At anchor ; a:t 1 a dance of Ssilora ; with Mo
loney's si Mr W arrei, jim.
THE FALLING POR i ICO. •
THE BOOK C ASM THICK,
With a Comic Dialogue, between two Clowns.
Clowns, Meilts. UiiiTet and Francis
THE MACIC POST, £*<-.
CHARACTERS,
Harlequin Ltghtfoot, Mr vVarrell, j un .
( Being his firlt appp-arance ir. the charter of
Harlequin)
Harlequin Mum, Mr Francis
Pantaloon, Mr Hunter
Scaramouch, Mr T. Warrtll
Magician, Mr Warrell
Clown, Mr Kifftlt
Thomafo, ( With Feats of Adlivity)
Mr Doctor
Duenna, Mrs Doflor
Columbine, (with a Song in Cbara&rr)
Mil's Milbourne.
The whule to conclude with
A Piciitrefque V'wto of the Falls of
NIAGARA,
And a display of GROUND AND LOFTY
TUMBLING, with many new Pofturea and
Equilibrium . —By Sig. J)odlor.
He will drink a glali of Wine backwards, in a
surprizing manner, beating a drum at the f.-.me
tim«, and likewise runup a plank, 15 sett
high, off which he v.-ill thro w a Sommerfct,
and discharge a Piitol in e ch hand at tlie
fame time.
Tickets to be had at the ufuai places, aad of
Mr. Francis, No. 70, North Eighth ftreer.
£/■ On Saturday evening, will be preftmed,
the celebrated Tragedy of The EAR'.,. OF ES
SEX 3 a liailtt Dance Called the BOUQUET, and
a Pantomime (i,«ver performed here) culled lin
ORIGIN OF HARLEQUIN . or, COMMENCE
MENT OF FOLLY.
*»■ Mr. Marshall's night will be rn Monday
next. '•
French Morning Schooi.
G. DU.FIEF,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and the
public, that hs has removed from No. -1
Chefnut street,"to No. 63, South Second ftrett
where he will open, tti Monday next, the 16th
intt. a Morning School, irom 6to 8. Hr c n j n _
ut» to teach ev-*ry d»y from 4 to 6 iu the attcr
iidoii, and from 6 till 9 in the evenniir.
N. B. Private Tuition attended to ji usual, and
tranfla'ions from either language into the other
psrtornied with secrecy, accuracy and difyutch. '
aprd ti. •
New Tea Warehouse.
No, 39, South Front Street,
OPPOSITE POSTOPPICE
rHE Subscriber rcfpe&iufly acquaintsJierfricHdj
and the pubJic, that she has opened u Store for
the faleof all kind» of teas, imported in the late
arrivals at ttollon and Philadelphia, (as under) and
which iheis determined to fell o* realon.ible terms.
It will be hcrconftantendeavour to give fiti adjon
to those who pleufe to favor Jier with cneir ju tore.
Country (lores will fiid it thr r adva-itagz to cL al
wi h her, as she can at a mo. sent* * rvNtice afTrrt
them any quar;t:ty wanted, and will allow a reason
able credit on approved notes.
Imperial, Hyfoß, Young Hyson, S.-uchong,
Hyson SkiN, and Bohea—Alfo, Coffee and Loaf
Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
■""•il *1 s&Tb tiw
For Sale,
r T , HE time of 1 NEGU.j L\D, who'has a-
L bout thrive years to fervc—He is perfectly
capable of and ule'd to al ki.id* of houfc ork ;
has also been accustom d ;o % wait at table. A
purchafcr rcGdii.g in the cotiatrv • t»> , )rt .
ferrcd. Enquire of the Pi inter.
- April t2. u.ujw
A Nut/e Cb 'tid Wanted.
ANY person who may want to nut a dvld nut,
mar heir of a place, by ending of Conrad
Baker, near the to-m houfc, in the Northern Li
cr' ' ' i'- aprii 11.
Joseph Ricaudo,
O" ihYi City, Merchant, has pro
pel y for the <xf hi" Creditors, tH Jamoi
C. F. fher,Samuel W. fiiher, and 'J hwras V, ;!fon.
All persons who have demands are re
queued to furnifh their accoums without delay—
aud%thoj*e malce immediate pajmefit to
the Subscriber?, ailing Aflignc\2».
James C. iff Samuel J¥. Fibber.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 * 4'iwtf
For^fc,
A CONVENIENT well huilt fecondh.m ' Light
Wnjr .dn. hung on J«clc» with flad.s and
blind' in the doors, with or without harness*
Enquire of Peer UmericVhoufc, Arch, oelow
Sixth ilrtet, 1 or th: fnbfcriS'er in Oermantown.
CASPAJi iIAINES.
?pril 2Thomas Joshua Fisher, |I
HAVI FOR SAU,
At No. 5, Dock-street, near the Drawbridge, 1
China ware nankeen dining fctls, tea and coftec
cvps and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taOities
Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandaftnoes
China and Englilh umbrellas,
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among -which art
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. iod. lad 3nd aod.nails
Shot—T. Crowley lUel, Spanilh brown and white
lead
Eaglilh scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
It a barrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious Store inDock-ureet,
No. 7, to be let, three ftorie. high, suitable for
any business. '
4th mo. jth §"
Jull Landing
From the brig Harmony from the Isle of France,
And for sale By
Joseph Anthony £S* Co.
ao bales Bourbon cotton ot a superior quality
150 bags do. coffee
34 calks do. Indigo
april 3 dlot
* JUST RECEIVED,
from fort-au-y kin c*, t
Ani FOR SALE, ty the SUBSC£IC££S, ,
110 hhds. Coffee
46 tierces# do.
XOO barrels do-
ICO bags do.
no hogsheads of Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hog(heads of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
a hogflieads of Cocoa
WILLINGS £3" FRANCIS,
Fenn-ftrcet.
march i». §
treasury department,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an aft of Congrcfs palled on the
Ipth day of March, 1798, the following -
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a<ft pafled on the 6th day of July J 7,7, en- ,
titled "An aft laying duties on stamped vcl
« lum, parchment and paper."
The stamp duties an debentorei t>r pertifi
catei for the drawback of Cuftcms or duties on
Imports art repeated.
11.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Iniptvlors refpeflively, to any persons Other
than Officers of che Revenue, who tnay pur
chase atone time or procure to be ftampcil, any
quantities of Vallum, Parchment' r Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
m.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fokl at
the raters prefciibedby law, without any addi
tional ih?rge or expense on arcount of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Ce nts for each Ikin of Parch
irient, or Two Hundred Cents foreach Ikin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnidi
ed at the expense of t'rie United States and pro
portionally for any leflVr quantity.
Given under my hand, of Philadelphia, the
day and yetr ab6h):ykentio"cd.
• OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treajury.
The Owners of 5952 Dollars
Captured in the Tchooner Lovely Lady of New-
York, captain Edward J< hnfton, by the French
privateer Revanche, captain Antoinc Gerard, on
the 13th of last July, are requested to make imaic.
diate application to the Department of State re
fpeiting the fame.
Departr. ent of State, 7
Philadelphia, April 2, 1795.J
A Bargain.
A quantity,of Window Glass
FOR SALE, of different files, at a very larg;e
discourtfrom the (lerlirg cost. If this Glass is
not clifpofed of before the April, it will be
shipped from this port.
For termsappiy to No. $9, South Third-street.
march 16. § IVV
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
WELLS Ess MORRIS,
HAYING expired on the nth February last,
all persons having demands against the said
Partnerlhip, are requested to furnilh their accounts
for settlement ; and those indebted to the fame, to
make immediate payment to the fubkriber.
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. the business will be yrried on as hereto,
fore, by the fubferiber, at his Store, No. IJS, Mur- |
ket-flreet. iw march 14.
NOTICE.
Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
L Debt of the United States ot the following
description, viz—N». 1003;, 10034, and 10035,
for 5000 dollarssach, dated Bth May, 1797, and
flanJingon the books ef theTreafury of the Uni
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lanover Houfe,near bsrgavenney in F.ngbnd,
Esq. have been loft by the capture of the (hipljac
thus, from hence to Lond6n,in June Uft. —This,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that
apj lication will be made at the l'rcafury of the U
nitedStatesfora renewal of the fame.
Waddington & Harwood.
march ai j6w
r "| 'Ht term of Co-partner(hip between the sub-
X fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
confe'nt will not be renewed' The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the partnerlhip,
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February r9 §tf
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta, v
AND roa SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 §
Alex. J. Miller iff James Davis,
Having entered into p.irtuerlhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Sjf Co.
INFORM their friendsin town and country, that
th> y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South trent S»reet, Philadelphia ; Where
they now have, and intend keceping a general af_
f»Jtnu-nt of India, German, Irijh, French and Bri
tijh M I'infadaresfor sale, on advantageous terms"
fur calh or alhort creait.
Feluitary 1$ s tf
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of rui!? aflortcd
to bales of fail canvass, from No. I to 8
53 calks yellow ochre
1 j tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each 1
London particular ) M winej
India market )
TencrifFe do. in hoglheadsand pipe*
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottlw
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinets &c.
assorted for the Weft-India market
4, to, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink Sands and presses
ao piircheoiw Jamaica rum ,
I bale (earning twine
160 bundles flieathing paper ,
THE BRIG
AMAZON,;
For Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin is* Qriffith. ]
april 7 tuth&f.tf :
For Norfolk, Peterfburgh and
Richmond,
The fafl failing Schooner
FAVOURITE,
Wm. W. Weymouth, mqfitr,
WILL fail in all next week. Fur Freight or Pa-J
sage (having excellent accommodations J apply to the Mas- 1
ter tn beard, at "Jeffe and Robert IValu s wharf, or to
GEORGE PL(7MSTED,
No. 166 South Front Jlrect. {
april 5 3'
FOR SALE.
107 do" b" h wnj Havannah Sugar
100 Hides
WHI be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
eis*a wharf, froni on board the brig AwHve, Will- j
iam Williams, matter.
T&SfcwHcr And may take in hnmedi
■■lff ately after discharged.
Apply to
j "fehti Hollingfworth iff Co,
march 30. §
This Day will be Landed,
At Morris's wharf, just above the Drawbridge,
from on board the brig Eliza, capt. Vaughan, 1
from Malaga—
Frelh Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lemons in cheftsand ha.f ohefts
Raifms of the Sun in kegs
Fig', in do.
Soft Ihell'd Almonds in sacks
Grapes and Olives in jars
Bloom and Mufcatelßailias in boxes
Anchovies in kegs
Jordan and Bitter Alm.nds in boxes
Old Mountain Wine in qr. calks
Brandy in bum &c. &c.
For Sale by
peter kuhn.
p. s. *
' The above Brig for sale
Jg lf applied for ; (he
is a reitiarkable fine faft failing
,»affui having made her paflagc
to and fcona Malaga in little more than 60 days,
march a 6.
Freight Wanted.
FOR bremsk,
Tbt Hamburgh Brig
HENRIETTA,
j?cter P. Schmidt, Master,
NOvV lying at Jeffe and R. Wain s ifrharf— A. I
stout, strong velTel, of about 17° tons bur
thtn, in good order ; has two thirds of her cargo
riady t*> go on board, aifcd begins to load to-morrow.
For Freight only, aptoly to
PRATT W KINTZING,
No. 95, North Water-street.
Who have J US? RECEIVED, and FOR SALE,
I a bales Tickleburgs and Oznabrigs
a do. Vatterbornes
I do. bleached Hessians
I package Oil Cloth
1 c heft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
30 Liquor Cases
29 anchors pearl Barylc, and
s 4 cases elegant Carriage Harness, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
THEY HAVE FOE SALE
Claret in cases, Port Wine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in small boxes, Rice, Brimstone, Tumblers, Win
dow Glass, Slates, a carpo of excellent Mahoga
ny, Heflians, Brown Rolls, Polish Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback.
"march 20. tuthstw
1 For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
■ >s* J°hn Fleming, Majler,
Having great part of her cargo en
gag«d.—-For freight apply to
is? Robert Wain.
1 February 16 5
For Sale or Charter,
MIL GOOD HOPE
t Will carry about 1200 barrels, *nd
ready totakcin a cargo. For terms
I apply to
Pragers isf Co.
No, 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Hum, Madera, Lilhon, and Teneriffe wins.
~ November 7. dtf
;i FOR SALE,
by the subscribers, No. ai, Penn-ftreet,
r , The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
>9 John Green, commander,from Bengal,
l " Conftjling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
ColTaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzey do.
- Humhunis Charconna Dorea
B!xe Cloth Tanjibs
n Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuli
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagongei Pat-na Llkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul de.
Guzzenas Bandannoe*
Gurraht Siflerfoy
Piniafcoet Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Pcrfians of various col.
~ Meek Pulicati
too tons SUGAR
f ss,oou lb. PEPPER.
Witlings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
I Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
" Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafc likft. of ele
gant patterns and bed colours.
February 8. «ltf
I NOW LANDING,
From on board the fchr. Chirlo - te from Boston,
30 chests Bohea }
30 do. Hyson > TEAS I
36 do Souchong j .
And from on board the fihooner Favourite from
Richmond (Vir.)
648 bMs. fuperfine J pj qjj[^
66 do. fine )
And also a quantity of WHEAT
For Sale on reasonable terms, by
GEORGE PLUMSTED,
No. 166, South Front street.-
april 3 3a*'iw
TO BE SOLD,
TWO handsome new three flory brick Dwell
ing Houses, ten rooms in eack ; a Livery
Stable, larjje enough to contain thirty horses and a
large Coach House; all completely finiihed. There
is a convenient yard with a pump in it, for the ac
commodation of the buildings. Ajiy person
inclining to purchase, by applying at the buildings,
No /6 and 4# North Sixth street, may view them,
and be informed of the terms, which will be made
easy if required.
N. B. The houfss will be fol<4 fcp-irately or to
gether, as it may best suit the pur chafer ; one of
the houses is well calculated for a tavern or private
family. *eoct april a. t
Red Clover Seed sf the beitquality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter casks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window GUl's—all of which will be fold
on very reasonable term?, by
John Craig,
No. 12, Dock Street,
march t wflcrtf
JUST RECEIVED.
And for fate by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-street
T. Dobfonj 41 South Second-street and the
Baekfellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Potrrii historic awd deforiptive 1
By a Lady of Bojloti.
ANALYSIS Of BOOK I.
Allusion to the surrounding Profpe&— Invocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Fi&ion difcarded-rDeaication to Wafb
ington—The A&ion opens at the Retreat of the ,
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfonification of Fortune and Fame—
Washington at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of tho Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers-—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
British Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congfefs—Declaration of Independence—Cha
ra»fler of the Columbian Soldie»—The Poet's
prophetic Apo£rophe to the Progrefc of Free
dom throughout the World,
march 30. $
just published, '
AND rOR SALfc at this office,
( Price 25 Cents J
Reflexions on Monroe's View
OF THE CONDUCT OT THE EXStVTIft.,
As publiftied in the
OA2ETTf.of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In the Commercial Warfare of trance is traced
to the French Fa&ion in this Country, di its
and the Motives oj Qpfofttion, fcjV.
march 30.
Wanted,
' An a&ive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
* and do the business of the kitchen* Such a ohe
will be allowed good wages, and no other steed ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer*
February 7 §
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, {landing in the name of the Subscri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11,1797 —the fame
having feeen loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
1 march 5 s6w
TO LET,
j And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three (lories high, and in an excellent Hand for
? bufiaefs. Apply to
Thomas & JoJhua Fi&er,
march I. 5 No. 5. Pock-Hreet.
Frefli Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
1- And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,,
and. BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
j China Ware, aliened; black and coloured Lote
1S firings and Sattins, Nankeen", Cadia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whalc-bonc (licks.
They have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna H?nJkerchi»f«,
ir French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir botes,
s. march 8. §
Netp-Torkf January 14, 1798
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minifler of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
Thefefcarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in i
vols, oSlave, ol 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subferibers, neatly bound
and lette>ed,at 1 dollar and .so cents per vol
ume—one third of the Subscription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made.
0" Subscriptions are taken it the Reading-
Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing-
Offiee, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Bookstores in New-York-- Also, by William
it Young, corner of Second and Chefnut street, nnd
if the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
:- As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
compleated with the atmoft dispatch.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH I, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the Ad of Cpngrefs pal Ted on the filth day of July one thousand feveh hundredani
nirety-feven, entitled " Ah Ail laying duties on Stamped Vfllum, Parchment and Paper", and the
Ail paifed on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, erttitlea
" An Ail co poOpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the Acl enti
tled "An AJt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and alter the
firft day of July enfeing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collect
ted throughout the United States.
For every lkin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (beet or piece of Paper, upon which (hall be
written or printed any of either of the inftrumcnts or writingsiollowing—to wit:
Dls Cts y Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ■> s
Any Licence to pra£lite,or Certificate of the •rregiftryof
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodlor, in any Court of the
United States, ... - - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of tliefaid Officei, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty aforefaid, be a fufficient admiifion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every oftbe said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) <■ • 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... 4
Any Charier-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof ahyLegacyleftby any Will or 0-
ther testamentary inftrtwrent, or for any (hare or part of a perfor.a! ellate di
vided by force of any statute of diftr'fbuti.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whercoffhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... -
When the»amount thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundren Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, ... jo
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional futn of I
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrsment in nature thereof, on any (hip, vefTel or
goods insured from one diflriiSl to another in the United States, 25
From#he United States to any foreign port or place, when thelum for which
Insurance is made (hall fiot exceed five hundred dollars, - 15
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Ary Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass (he seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furftilh for the use of the United States or Tome particular state, ■> jo
Any Bond, bill single or pe»al, foreign or inland bill of exrhange, promifTory
note or other note, other than any recognisance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or wiih the United States or any state,, or for their
use refpeilively, ....
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - ro
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, .....
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fnbjeil to only two fifth parts of the duty j
aforefaid—viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - | 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai b, I 10
If above five hundrtd dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, J ao
If abovenne thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes iflued bv the banks now eftablilbed, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the United States, other than the no'os of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual compofWon, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpeilively, according to
the following scale. - ....
On all notes not exceedipg fifty dollars, for each doHar, - - 0
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
Cn all notes above boe hundred dollart and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - ... 1
On all notes above site hundred dollar*, * a
Any Protest or other Notarial ail, .... 25
A«y Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pension, or to obtain Of fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military fen-ices
performed in the late war, - 35
• Any Certificate or Debenture For drawback of Customs Or dntie», for left than
five hundred dollars, - - - • 1
For five hundred dollars and si« exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
For more than two thousand dollars, - - 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize tobe exported,
If from one diftri& to another diftriil of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - t - * " to
If from the United States to any foreign port or plate, ' 25
Any Invintbry or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effeils, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cafe» of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and good* takeft in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and rot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ... 25
If under twenty dollars, at the rate often cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The duties aforefaid will be colleiled and received by the Supcrvifors, Itifyeftors aud other Officers
of Infpeilion, in the several Diftriil*, Surveys and Divifioiw of the United litatea, and by such other
persons as (hall from t* time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftriils for
that purpose.
The Supervifers of the several Diftriils will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be prailicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at tKe option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prefer ibid by law, by application to any Supervitor, Infpedor, Officer of Infpeilion,
or other person appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of DiftrieH.
GIF EN under my Haud t at Philadelphia
the day and yrar alryvementittned.
OLIVER. WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary a/ the Treasury.
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON fcf LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner'» Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
ifl and ail proof Brandy, J drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Feb. 9. rsd'f
N~O~T I C E. "
ALL persons who have any demands agahift
the estate of WILLAM FLEETWOOD, Of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia! merchant, de
ceased, are reqUested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and thole who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, \ . ■„ ~
No. ts, So. Third-street. $ Aim,n^r f
January 4. ' dtf
Just Published,
And to he had at the Book-flores of Messrs. Dob
son, CaMpbelL, Yeung and ORiiKao,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
To nibieL it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and practice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefting fa<sls and reflections relative to
the Symcbai iilcrmdci, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned To much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of th« United States of America.
BY WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American PhilolophicaJ So
ciety. Feb. i-^*3ih§
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the loth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN*' Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, it Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regit! er
ing and examining in these, the City of Walhing
ton, No. ILanrl Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in molljof the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bifinefs as a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcoxating Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBUfcN.
November ij. §
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoGngto contra£t his bufi
nefa, offers this EUate lor sale, on moderate
terms. On it are «ie Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete BOfeing Machine, and a very good grill:
Mill, with two pair 6f Hones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with theft virious branches. The Alt Furnacea
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thou land acre*
of Land, one half of which isuuder wood, theother
very fine arable Land, producing the belt Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which ia
luperior to any in thia country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guna
lately made, although fame of the 34 were bored
into 31 pounders, have failrd on proving. The fitu
atioti ia very eligible) particularly for this braach »f
manufacture, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land «
ingt on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from • plenty of water i(Tuing
from a large natural pond, vary near the Fufinace,
and which may be converted into a Variety of lother
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat.
<d wiih all the flock and utenliis, and htva pofTefßon
oner belorethe firft of Junerltxt, and preparation
may be mldelft the meantsmefcr goinginto Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with forne coal, Ore, Ac. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooka, Efq.one of the Representative*
in Congress for thia State; Mr, David Waterman, oa
theprenufes, or tothepropiietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOV.
Dee. 1. 3a wtf
A 0 T I C E.
A AfaitufaHoty of yetloiv and delft wart,
Such aa never waa in this Country before, has been
been lately ereCVed at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
onthe East Bank of Hudson's River, ftaie of NewJ
York, where any article of various forts arid fhapea
may be executed, as well as earlhtrn ftovea Upon •
new conftruaion, that saves three fourths ef the fuel
commonly used in call iron lloves or open chymnies;
they arrbtfldrsvery wholesome and ornamental, by
applyingto
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand lo attend to the baking and
glazing part of the (aid ware. Ceneroua appoint,
menu will be given. Apply or to
DAVID BROOKS, E^.
No. 71 Sou'.» sth Street.
Felt 19. eoil^w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and coovtnient HOUSE, in or nekr
the centre of th« city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer Wrai. Incjuireof th» Printer.
Oa. 17. » eetf