of a ND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser',
By John Fenno, N®- ii 9 Chefmit Street.
Number 1753.J
For Gharlefton,
THE r MIG
mm* eliza, j
W. B. Vaughan, master ; .
K Fine liaunch, fall failing vessel, with good
nL accommodation. for pafr ngers ; to fail in 6
fcyi. For Freifht or Piffig*, apply to the Cap-
On on board, at Morris's wharf, just above the
Irawbridge, or to
<Peter Kuhn.
April iB. §st
For Boston, 1
THE fast SAILING BRIG v
y°^ n PtttHe, ma/ler,
Will fail oil I uefday iH'Xt. For Freignt or Pas-
Jge, apply to the matter on board, Chefnut
treet wharf. April 18
?qr Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails assorted
so bales nf fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8 2
53 calks yellow ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
London particular ) M d ira Wines
India market )
Teneriffedo. in boarfheadi^nd.pipes
Old Port do. in htids.
Empty CUretbotthrs
6 cafe? of Ginghams, D':mitie«, Muflinets &c. _
assorted for the Weft India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and to coils of cordage j
\Vriting~fiate«„ii'lt Sands and prefTss
ft® purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twine
160 bundles Ibeathing paper 1
A M*A Z 0 N,
For Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin & Griffith.
April ; tuth&f.tf
~ FOR "SALST -
Sugar ■
aoo Hides j
Will be landed to-morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig A&ive, W ill-
iam Williams, matter.
|vlk.The said Brigfor sale,
And may take in imrnedi
-1 ■ii'i'w s32»* ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingftuorth & Co.
march 30. §
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
\bJgsk)fr Dominick Terry,
J o ' lo Fleming, Mafier, 1
s®OT§StS=lsßHavinggreat partofher cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
Jeffe iff Robert Wain.
February ft 6
For Sale or Charter,
IpfcV °1 he Snow
GOOD HOPE
Will carry about 1200 barrels, and
is ready totake in a cargo. For terms
Pragers & Co.
- No. Iji, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
aßd Rum, Madera, Lifton, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7.
Manchester Goods.
Received by the latest arrivals from Liverpool, se
veral trunks, suitable for the present and ap
proaching faafon, which will be fold very
low for ca{h o r on a short credit, viz.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes
Jaticy Waiftcoating in Marfcilles, &c.
Cotton and Hlk and cotton Hofijry, fanuloon*,
&c.
A vatiety of (Englith) Umbrellas
Nankeens, cotton Hhkfs. Shoe binding, &«•
N. B. A cafe of printed MufUnets, and a trunk
or Pullicat Bangalore Handkerchiefs entitled to
drawback, and very fuirablo tor the Well-Ir.die .
Apply No. 35 South Water and corner of Chel
nut street. 4 mo. 11—j^w —
PORT WINE,
In pipes, hogtheaos and quarter calks,
OF A SO Pfi Kl O R qjMLITT,.
T u £t imported, in the Henrietta, P. P. Schmidt,
master, from Oporto,
ALSO, ON HAND,
300 bbls. New-York and Boston Beef
Queens' Ware in crates
Blankets in bales „ , „
Guns aborted in cases, Cutlafles, Swords, &c.
For Sale by •
THOMAS ts* JOHX KETLAND,
Walnut ftrett wharf.
~ ' * let
april IT. *n
To ie Let,
fAn A pofMion given on the xft of May)
A eenteel three story brick Houle,
12 feet front, aad 40 feet deep, with b uild.ngs
and (lables, at present in the tenure_of Major Jack
son. Enquire at IS7 South Ihird ftiect.
aptil a. " .——
Joseph Ricardo,
this City, Merchant, has assigned his pro-
O perty for the benefit of hi. Creditors, t. James
iCTpi Iher, Samuel W. Filber, and Thomas Wllfon.
All persons who have demands are re
ziuefted to furnilb their accounts without de.ay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
♦he Subscribers, ifling Affi^necs.
James C. o Samuel W. Filer.
No: 13, Arch Street,
j Atawtf
march 31
NOTICE.
rT -, HnI!E Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
the United Slates ol the fallowing
1 • v ; z No. 10033, 10034. and 10035.
viz gtl, May, 1797. and
for f theTrcafury of tUc Uni .
UanJingont e Benjamin Waddir.gton,
in' vbergavenhey in England,
of LanoverHoufe n" 6 ftl j,
Esq . -ft , n junc uft _ 5 , is _
chu;, from hen« whoru itm ay concern, that
therefore lhe treasury of the U-
Wadding'"W Uanwoi^
march 11
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, APRIL 23, 1798.
The Subscribers,
Are landing at Willkng's wharf, from on board
of the (hip Elizabeth, Captain Peaftce, from Ba
tavia, H(
400,000 lbs. of best Java CofFee,
192 Caniltersof Sugar '
A few tons of Sapan wood
for SALE 1
Philips, Cramond iff Co l ' l£
april 16 iw tro
B R AND T. be*
The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
FROM CETTE,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's (Irest "' e
wharf. V ' L
aoo pipes 4th proof 7 <~ii • T> J J
160 do ia do. j Choice Brandy be
Provence white Wine, in pipes C^ 1
Hazlenuts and Filberts, in sacks art
A few Almonds, Railins, See. be<
For Sale by er
Peter Blight. £ CI
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
aoojCOo lbs. Java CofFee, in sacks
Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes me
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
1 lo hhds. Jamaica n j e
50 do. do. Runi
Port Wine, in pipes, hhds. and qr. calks w j
Madeira, London particular, in pipes, very w
superior '
april 18. daweotifM
NOW LANDING, th<
From on boatd the fchr. Chirtotte from Boston, co:
30 cheits Bofcea we
30 do. Hyflon >■ TEAS in
36 do. till
And from on board The fchoonsr Favourite from dil
Kifhrnoud (Vir.)
'J® flour %
And also 1 quantity of WHEAT on
For Sale on reasonable terms, by
GEORGE PLUMSTED, a S
No. 166, South Front street.
April 3 3awiw
— . . . , an
Landing at Wain's wharf, pe
From on board the brig Enterpriae, capt. Lang- a P
don, from Jamaica. ti'
60hoglheadsof. good SUGAB , and") Entitled to * w
60,000wt. of prime green COFFEE 3 drawback, be
And For Sale by cl:
WHARTON & LEWIS, ch
Ko 115, South Front street. P'
Who have likeivifi\ for sale, ' ol
A quantity ef 4th p oof Jamaica Rufn
Molafles, and -
70 barrels of Tanners' Oil te
A few bbls. excellent Limes P'
april 14. eoiot ea
F R E S H T E A S. s,
MR. CHALK, on
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, that he rln
has opened a nc
TE4 WAREHOUSE f n
Ai hi.Clrvtrtltiog"l3hrJPry, Ko. jf Nortft lhird
street, where be will be happyj 1 execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured
IMPERIAL, HYSON, ) ™
YOUNG HYSON, ( TF . s dc
HYSON-SKIN, C ' .
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J h<
On moderate terms.
' Coffee, Chocolate and Loaf Sugar.
s april 13. p<
Notice is hereby Given, to
THAT application has been made at the Bank of w
th« United States, for the renewal of the fel- w
r lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the to
'• capture of the Britilh Packet, Countess of Lticcf- V"
ter— viz. ,
DJo.^oa, containing jlbares - ) llTucd to Henry-O*-
,; 0 , i do ; aertove Nephew.&Co ft
i . l i i dft. to hdwwds !•
73J ' and Co. f)
00 5 do. issued (in lieu of «
Aron Linn) to Samuel and Henry Vaddington. b
zyifl 4 do. issued to Phyn,El- e ,
lice and Jnglis. te
All persons concerned arp therefore called upon
% to (hew cause why new Certificates ihould not_bc
issued agreeably to the said application. te
. april 14 e °- pi
k Imported in the ship America, «
O .' AND TOR SALS. BV .1
G. G. SCBULTttESS,;' . „
At Meflrs. Jos. Anthony Oo rf. Store, rj
- 30 bags heavy black Pepper f c
Book Mull in I 4 and 1-1 yard wide C(
Check Hhkfs. romal Hhkts.
Blue Percales and blue Socrotion 11
> t One bale blue Cloth 34 punj. ti
Vitepaleon Hhkfs. 18 P UC J - ,e
One bale Betilhas —also, a.
r Four bhh. Sago
e ' Eight logs Ebony «
A f«w boards Sattinwood eo gt
april II 11
A Great Bargain. v h
FOX SALE ON POTOMAC v
F " In the Sut» of Virgini.., and county of Northum- e
berland, C
AS beautiful a Scat as any on the River, con
taining between seven and eight hundr«l a f
» cres of Land, which commands a most delightful £
L ' profpecl of Coan River, Potomac and the Bay-. a
'? s about a third part of which ra I c
K " reunded with Filh. Oyllers, and Wild F™ l '" "> | r
a good harbor. and a- convenient for tra.eandin- .
_■ formation as any on the lower par :of the ri , f
and liesfo compad, that about two miles ot teiK
wtuld inclose the whole from river to river,
ro- S The Jones, Esq. now in Congref, '
u- 8 lives with n a few miles of the
on. d„ me the favor to delcribe it, and make my terms
to JVirginia.JUrbanna, march aj, _a i x-co3t .
Canal Lottery—No. 11. j
f -tXTTLI commence drawing Monday, the 20th ,
W in ft Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at ,
r /ivr, at Wm. BLACKBURN'S Lottery
h ii° .t.h
---35' Hollars, Wafbit^-
3| ST.ZSS"", ti'i »"• < ■'« s ~» " lht
n.Y, ° n NB The brfinefsof * B«okk*i inbuyingand
felling ill k,a ß d l S ll , of a^ b Not S e t , OC o k f Hand Tl'e'of
by §
K November 15. * »
CONGRESS. a
a
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. w
d
Monday, April 16.
(Concluded from Saturday's Gazette. J a
Mr. Nicholas was not particular as to
the manner in which the limitation was in- a
provided the exiftenceof this corps u
was subject to a limit. He did not himfelf e
believe there was any occasion for the scruples n
which had been mentioned with respect to' t ]
France, since it was well known tliat all the f]
measures which were now taken were to pro- n
vide against the possible ilTue of a war with ]j
that countiy. He did not believe it could f (
be said they were about to declare war, be- f;
cause they were about raising a regiment of ] £
artillery. He wished the law to be limited, i;
because he did not desire to put if in the pow- w
er of the President to continue this - ft
ger than was necefTary. He should also wish j.
to give the President power to dilchafge the a
men sooner ttittn the time mentioned, if he ] (
should think it prudent to do so. He did not e
mean to fay that a clause of this kind wasab- v
folutely necefTary ; for though it had bsen de- w
nied by some gentlemen that the legislature
have a right to difhand a part of the army, by g
withholding the appropriation, he was of a r ,
different opinion. But he saw no reaf'on why e
they should tie their hands on this fubjeit, ti
and give the power to the other branches of si
the government t» keep these men in force
contrary to the wishes of that House. If it 0
were necessary that they should be continued d
in force after the expiration of the limitation, 0
there can be no douj>t, but there will be a t
disposition in to r«'cna6tthe lavr. (
Mr. J. WnVaiAMS' said, it was true that a h
bill had palled that House appropriating e
250,000 dollars to be expended on fortificati- i,
ons ; but that b.ll is not become a law, and t
therefore could not be ailed upon. He was a
against making this regiment a permanent e
corps, because he thought three battalions
too many. The whole number of officers r
and men will be which, in time of t
peace, would be too large an efrablifhment, c
and far beyond what would be a due propor- li
tion to our infantry. If there hid been only p
two battalions, he should haveageed to their v
being permanent. He should no: obje£t to a a
clause giving the President the pswer of dif- v
charging the men whenever he flail be of o- 0
pinion the circumstances of the country no : t
longer require them to be kept on foot. ' I
Mr. Gallatin Said, when he proposed o
his amendment, he stated, that he had an in- t
tention of introducing another, giving the r
President the power to disband the men at an t
earlier period, if he lhould think it proper, c
The gentleman from Maryland (Mr. S. t
Smitli) thinking this corps proper as a part of n
Our permanent establishment, andthe gentle- j
man from New Jersey though
V Britifli ' £
and Spanish polls, might be expected to op- t
pose this proposition. But it would be re- \
collected, that when the law passed fixing the f
military establishment, Congrels knew of the 1
two treaties by which tlieffc posts Wtre lurren- 1
dered. :
Withrefpeft to the form of the amendment, 1 1
he believed, at a time when all ourofficialre- ; i
ports were founded on the ground of our ex- { 1
tiling disputes with France, the present pro- ! ;
poiition could not add any degree of irritation j <
to their proceedings. It did not fay that we ! (
vtould go to war; but merely that the event | 1
was possible. He had however, no objection i <
to a modification of his proposition. He ftiould ■ 1
be fati jfisd to fay, "as soon as the differences ,
between the United States and foreign nations
/hall be But as we have no dif- 1
ffrences with any other nation betides the ,
French, he Could fee no objefti«n to uting the
fame words which were uled in the la)* to ,
which he had referred, and also ipt'ie law for ]
building the frigates which w<K to cease when :
ever we should be A the Meui- <
terranean powers. , ,
Mr. PinckneV beJieved_ the gentleman ,
from Pennfylva"ia hot advert to one, ma -
terial c ircup"t»»ce of -difterence betwee« our
present /ituation, and those 111 which we wete
w itl> refpett to the- Indiana' and the Medi
terranean powers. We were at war with
the Indians; and though no declaration ot
war had been made against us by the A!ge
rines, they were making war upon us. I here
fore no delicacy of expreflion was there ne
cessary ; but, in the present cafe, he believed
it was best to avoid all expressions which
might admit of an unfavourable interpreta
tion. But since this question had been agita
ted,he was opinionthis regiment ought tomake
apart of our permanent corps ; and when we
(hall return to a peace establishment, a de
duction might be made from our infantry. He
believed our militia (especially if organized
upon the plan which had been proposed)
would be equal to every purpose of defence ;
but this would not be the cafe with refpeft
to our artillery and engineers. A degree of
education and study was necefTary in that
corps which was not required in any other.
Mr. Nicholas submitted to gentlemen,if
such an alteration was proper to be made in
1 our military eftablifhmem, whether this was
1 a proper time to make it. When immediate
' I danger calls for an increase of force, he did
I I not think it a proper time to talk of increas
ing our permanent peace establishment. Be
' fides, in order to secure the dilbanding of a
part of our infantry, in the way suggested by
the gentleman from S. Carolina, he should
1' wish to preserve the power of the House over
3 this corps. He thought whatever additional
force vfas now raised should be made com
mensurate only with the occaftoil whioh calls
for the i-icreafe, without taking into view an
increase of our (landing army in fiitufte. He
hoped some limitation wouldbe given to the
' law, and he wished the gentleman from
Pennsylvania would withdraw his amend-
II rneut, and fuffcr to be introduced a limitation
c clause instead of if, which would not be lia
y ble to the objections which had been urged
~ against his amendment.
* Mr. Gallatln wished the gentleman
last up would ipecify the limitation which he
meant to propose.
l " Mr. Nicholas replied that he meant to
limit the law to one year, and from thence to
' C the end of the next feflion of Congress ; after
d which it might be continued, if Congress tho't
o proper. . .
J Mr. Gallatin agreed to accept this a-
O rnendmentas a fubftituie for his.
* Mr. Shepard was in favour of making
this regiment a p«ir't of our permanent fyttem,
as itwould (erve as'a fort of military school, r
and greatly promote a-knowledge of militaty f
tatties. In the beginning of I.lit there {
was a greater failure for want of m£n of this \
description than any other. I f vkiv part of the a
army were to be reduc*il,. he niould be in fa- t
vour of reducing the iji&jUTy, i&fher thfcn th« I
artillery. v t
Mr. Hartley was a little surprized that an t
amendment of this kind should be so strongly a
urged by gentlemen who inlift upon the pow- t
er cf controlling the military establishment by t
means of appropriation. He himfelf believed
the house this power, and thertfbre t
thought gentlemen very unreasonable in thus t
pushing llfis amendment. The present effob- a
liflimenf had always been conlidered as very |
scanty ; as originally palfed, it was so much t
fl>, that the Prelident put his veto upon the 1
law. He w*s not an Udvocate forlarge eftab-' f
liftim«nts ; but he wilhed to leave the power e
with the President of keeping these men in r
service for five years, if he Hull fee proper. {
It was true, that by way of accommodation, v
aclaufeofthe kind mentioned by his col- <
league had been introduced into the law for I
establishing a naval armament, which had been a
very emfjarralling. He hoped no limitation ' t
would be agreed to in this cafe^
Mr. Macon said, this question did not f
go to fettle the question whether or not this 1
regiment should form a part of the permanent 1
establishment j because at the expiration of ]
the limitation, Congress would again have the i
fubjefl in their power. 1 >
Mr. Gallatin. In refpeft to the ideas I
of Tome gentlimen that it would be better to i
discharge a-p4rt of our infantry, and increase (
our artillery; for our permanent establishment, i
this certainly was not "the proper time to set- t
tie that queltion. It was. when the t
law fixing the prefen; eltab!i)i>qSent was palT- '
ed ; and if gentlemen wereaerfrous of review- t
ing that eflablifhment, he should not object
to it; but the present question was to provide i
an additional force and not to fettle that 1
eftabliftiment.
In relation to the powers of the house with
refpert to appropriations, it was well know,
that whenever that question came up, it oc- '
cafioned much debate ; tut if the law was
limited in its duration, the question ot the
propriety of continuing the men in service
would return at the expiration of the term,
and if could then be best determined. He
was not willing toleaveit wholly inthe power
of the President to keep these men, or to dis
band them. Hovy did he know, that the
President might not be of opinion with the
gentlemen ffom Maryland and S, Carolina,
that they ought to form a part of our perma
nent corps. As the power of railing and main
taining armies is placed in Congress by the
constitution, he wilhed to keep it there, and,
therefore, when they raised a temporary ar
my, they had a right, and they ought to limit,
itS , conlequencu Having arisen ! i
the reftritting tlaufe in the law provi
ding a naval armament, he did not believe
that any had taken place. The only elftdi
which it had produced was, that, instead of
fix frigates, we have only three, and those
most in favour of a naval armament, he be
lieved, would be glad that w» have no more ;
as it is now seen that these velfels are not tha
best calculated for protecting obr commerce ;
for no one now proposes to build three other
frigates, but ji hill had been received from the
Senate proposing the building sixteen vellels
of a less size. The Secretary of War had, in
deed, proposed some thips of the line, but no
! new frigates. Upon the whole, lie could fee
I objection to the amendment, except it arofo
' from a desire of making this regiment, a parr
of the permanent eftablifhmcn'.
Mr. Harper was perfeitlydifpofed to fuy»
that he did make this regiment apart
of the V erm ®" enl eftattifliment; but he was
not <o wedded to that idea, as not to accept
of it upon the limited plan. He wished to
fee a military spirit in this country ; to have
a 'military school, and a corps conllantly
existing ill which officers may always be found
fit tb damirt&tid troop?. He wished that if we
should at any time herc«fter be overtaken
with diffitulties, as we now ate, that we might
not be without officers, as well as without
troop", to defend our country. It was-with
this vie w that he wished to fee this regiment a
part of bur establishment. For, said he, can
weexpefi to look forward to times of perma
nent peace? Can we eipeCt to be exempt
from the lot of all.other nations! Our pre
sent circuttiftances ought to admonish us to
the contrary. We may expedt, in Common
with other nations', times of difficulty, and
! times of exertion, and we ought to be provi
ded to mett them when they (hall arrive. It
was wife for all nations to cherish the means
of defence, which cannot be raised in a mo
ment. If an army, oc revenue were wanted,
they could at any time be raised; but good
officers and military science could not be
created without much previous application ;
by practice and a courle of study : these are
the most valuable set of men which a nation
can pofTefs, except it be wile legislators. It
contribuies, fifid he, greatly to the fafety of a
country, when it is known that such a ciafs of
menexifts to any conderable degree. He did
not think the objeft would be completely at
tained by this establishment, but it would in
crease our means of accomplishing it. He
should, therefore, be opposed to the amend
ment.
Mr. R. Williams was in favour of the
amendment. He had attended to the arguments
of gentlettten opposed to it, and found they
were generally grounded on the propriety of
■ keeping this regiment as a part of the per ma
-1 nent establishment, as it would be necessary
for the purpose of teaching dif'ciplipe and the
: arts of war. He was as wilting as any mem
i ber of the'eomrhittee to have an inftitiltion of
: this kind ; but not to effeft it in this indireit
! way. He did not think it necefTary to have a
i military school to consist of 15 or 1600 men.
If this law parted, he should conceive himfelf
1 bound to make appropriations for. the pay
ment of the men for the whole period lor
1 which they were enlisted, as he thought the
men would have a just claim upon govern
-1 ment for that period.
; Mr. Dayton observed, •hat if the amend
ment prevailed, on the doctrine which the
3 gentleman last up had advanced, he must (till
a conceive himfelf to be bound to pay the men
T forfivc years, though the law instituting the
t corps should be palled only tor two. In this
cafe, the men would have been engaged and
. received a bounty to serve for five years, yet
a clause of duration is fixed to the law; and
g for himfelf, he believed, that notwitljftand
ing the limitation inserted in the law, the
\\ r QLOME XIII.
men having engaged to serve the United StatiS
lor five years, would be bound by that er -
gagetrient, and tlicre will'be no \tay of pre
venting it, except by a pretty high handed
ait, and an appropriation was refilled to pa/
them. So that at the end of tvVo years, the
law Mil cease, and though the greater part of
these men may be wanted to complete
the regfinent now in exigence, though she/
areyet bound to serve the United Slates for
thrtee years to come, they could not be trauf
ferred into the other Corps.
If gentlemen were determined at anytime
to reduce the eflablifhment, without a limi
tation of this kind, they could withhold ail
appropriation, orpaft an aft for difbandingj a
part of it; but surely gentlemen did not with
this house to potlefs all power on this subject.,
Upon the ground of the gentleman frohi i'enn
fylvania, the present corps of artillerists and
ergineers are fuffici«nt for a peace eltablifli
ment; if so, why put it out of th« power of
government to keep them perfect f He was
willing to give to the President the power of
dilbandiiig this additional regiment, when he
shall believe the fafety of the country will
admit of it; but he was unwilling to reftri£t
the law in the way proposed.
Mr. Livingston hoped the gentleman
from NeW-Jersey would permit him to remind
him Of a part of the bill which he Teemed to
have overlooked, when he dated the men as
polltively engaged for fi,ve years. The words
in the bill to which he afluded are, u'niefs foo+
tier di/cbarged. I'or his own part, he was not
fully convinced, that this regiment was not
neceflaryto be made a part of Our permanent
eftabHfhment ) his opiaion was 'Father inclin
ing that way ; but he was extremely furry, qii
this occjfion, to find a quelhcm railed on which
there is xjUu-ki}tLer& a contrariety of opinion,
and which requires more deliberate cOnliclera
tion than they were now difpol'ed to give it.
Whilst the house were employed in providing
measures against the dangers which threaten
us, fttch aqueftion is not only unnecessary, but
it tends to deffroy that unanimity, and the ap
pearance of it, which it Is i'o heceflary to ex
hibit to the world on this occasion. But it
was said, this regiment was to be a Sthool of
Military Difciphne for future times. If this
was intended, he did not think the term of
five years lufficiently long; and whenever
leisure and the circumstances of the country
will admit of it, he should be ready to go as
far into an establishment of this kind, as any
other gentleman ; but at present, he did not
wish to lose fight of the immediate business
before them, vile, the defence of the country.
If the amendment was agreed to, it went on
ly to put future legislatures in the fame litua
tion in which they themselves flood, of deter
mining what was proper to be done ; and hi
was against tying up the hands
atures; he w.fhed theg^ >iVgs po(rdled .
Cventlemen iayMhattnis eTjablilhmentmight be
reduced by withholding the appropriation ;
though he believed this, yet he looked upon
it as a violent remedy which never ought to
be resorted to but in extreme cases.
Mr. R. Williams thought this was oqe
ofthofe qtteftions which might have been le
gislated upon, merely upon the ground of ex
pedien<;y. As to what the gentleman from
New-Jersey had said about his (Mr. W'S) not
obtaining his objeft, if the amendment were
agreed to, he was mirtaken ; and he believed
men were seldom taken in when they aited
with their open. If the amendment was a
dopted, men could not then. fiiy, they were
engaged to serve for five years, 35 the lan
guage of the law would then be, " vve en
gage you for five years, if we wanLjww fo
iong ; if not, you willbe- J - u: T terT i£ e 5 sooner."
Mr. S. m." < 11—gfHeved all the ptirpofes
uifcicti .gentlemen wished to effeft migha be
obtained by the bill as it now ftauds, as it was
in the power of Congress to disband any part
of the army when they please j they could
newly organize the lyftem, and reduce it,
when they thought proper ; but, as he had
before stated, he believed this regiment would
always be proper, he wished, therefore, to
put it upon such a footing, as to induce
proper characters to accept of employment in
it, which if it were to have only a two years
exiflence, could not be done. It was not an
easy matter, he said, to get gentlemen to go
into a corps intended to defend our forts and
harbours. He was delifous, therefore, of
putting the business on a pemialltent footing.
We have been, said he, tonltantly afraid of
having 100 large an eftablilliincnr, and this
fear has produced the most expensive means
of raising forces when wanted. If gentlemen
would consent to the establishment of an effi
cient militia system, a less military force
woftld be necefTary ; but they will not do tf*s,
they are always in favour of temporary mea
sures. He wished, on the contrary, to pof
fel's a permanent defence, without depending
upon the enthusiasm of the moment for it,
when it is neceflary.
Mr. Josiah Parkep. thought the amend
ment of little consequence. Whatever they
might now do, wo jld have no effect in giving
permanency to our Military elfabliflmieitt ;
btcaufe, according to the Constitution, that
could have no longer a duration than two
years.
Mr. Gordon could not vote for the a -
mendment, because he thought it involved
in it a flrong absurdity, and would produce
consequences which had not been avowed.
He believed, that the legal conftrudtion of
the act would be, if the amendment were a
, greed to, that the whole regiment would be
discharged at the end of two years. For the
President would receive all the power which
he had on this subject, from this law, and
the law would not warr.nt an engagement for
Wpger than two years.
Mr. Otis said, if thh amendment prevail
ed, it would hive a mischievous effect not
only upon the corps intended to be raised,
1 but upon those already in being, as it might
be supposed that the officers in the present
* corps, would be candidates for a higher grad.
• in the new corps ; but if the new corps were
r only to be a temporary body, they would not
: be induced to leave a permanency to enterir
- to a temporary corps, and the regiment would
therefore be filled with young officers, v. Hp
would be placed over the heads of rxperien
; ced men in the present corps. In this cafe,
1 the old officers would resign difgulted, and we
i fliould have inexperienced officers in the
» whole corps. It was important, therefore,
s that both corps (hould be pljced upon the
i fame footing.
t Mr. Varnum observed, that his colleague
J had supposed that the officers in the present
- corps would be candidates for offices in the
e newcurp*; but that they would be unwillingto make the exchange, if they were liable to
be difcliargedat the end of two years; yet he
afterwards slated, that if young men were ap
pointed over them, they would resign.
There appeared to be an inconsistency in this,
because if they were v<ry desirous of holding
their situations, such acircumftance would not
make them resign ; and if they were ijot so
desirous of holding their situations, they
would not be prevented from accepting of
offices in the new corps from the chance ot
their being disbanded at the end of two years.
If he were of opinion, that this new regiment
was neceflary to be made a part of our peace
establishment, he should alio be opposed to
the amendment; but he did not. He knew
it had been the wiflyof some gentlemen to
keep up skeletons of regiments, in order to
have officers ; but he did not think it would
be very advantagous to the United States to
retain officers in this way. He could not fee
what military knowledge officers were to ac- <
quire by being in pay, except they were in
a situation of acquiring knowledge from ex
perience. He could not conceive either that
any gentleman would content to the discharge
of any part of oiy infantry, 011 account of this
additional tegunent of artillery ; but such an
idea might aitift them in carrying their point.
He could not f-.e why gent+enien should dis
trust the condiidt of this house two years hence;
anu if they were not d'ftruitqfl, no evil could
arise fro;-, 'he present amendment. No act
could be parted without the concurrence of all
the branches ps government, and he,thought
no act oughf to be continued in force contra
ry to that concurrence.
Mr. Nicholas said every gentleman who
had opposed this amendment, had acknow
ledged that it would place the law upon a dif
ferent footing from that upon which it would
stand without it. As to the want of security
in the situation of officers, he could tell the
gentleman from Malfachufetts how he might
increase that security. It might be done by
telling them they should never be difchufged ;
but he trusted, when gentlemen law that this
opportunity was leized for doing what could
not be done at a time w hen no danger threat
ened us, they would be jealous of their right
over military ellablifhments. With refpedt
to the difficulty fnggeftad by the gentleman
from New-Jerfeyv he would fay that* when i
there was a difmclrnation to do a thing, any
apology, howtverweak, might be refarted to.
The men would certainly be engage l for five
years, and if the United States had occasion
for them, would be obliged to serve"tor that
time, either in the new corps, or in the corps
now in exiftcnce: And when gentlemen fay
this regiment is neceflary for a peace eftablidi
luent, he would aik them whether they could
wish that we had had the expence of them for
years part F Ue believed they could not re
gret thefiiving of this expence.
Mr. T. Claiborne thought the bill,
without the amendment, would be an,oblique
violation of the constitution ; at leafl the ar
guments which had been used ir support of it,
were of this kind For though the constituti
on fays that no appropriation (hail be made
for a military edab'ifhment for more than two
years, yet tins bill was to lay Congress under
an obligation of engaging men for five years.
As lie could fee no reason for doubting that
-.future legislatures would adt rightly, he should
The
negatived 4.; to the amendment and
The cdmmitte; rose, and Mr. NIC HOLaT
renewed' his motion in the house, and called
the Yta3 f. ml Ways upon it, which Were taken
as follows :
YEAS.
Me firs. Baldwin, Bard, Blount, Brent-,
Bullock, Barrel's, T. Claiborne, Davis,
Dawfon, Emon>.rf, Findley, Gallatin,
Gregg, Hnrrifon, Havens, Heilter, Holmes,
iones, I,ivingfton, .Locke, Lyon, Macon,
I'Clenaclui., New, Nicholas, J. Parker,
Sktnnef, W. Smith, Sprig]*, Stanford, Sum
ter, A. Trigg, 'J. Trigg, Van Cortlandt,
Varoum, R. Williams.—36.
NAYS.
Me(Tr<. Allen, Bartlett, Brooks, Champ
litu__Coit, Craik, Dana, Dennis, Dent,
Evans, Tit-E-jwn. Foder, J. Freeman,
N. Freeman, Gmelpre; Goodrich,
Gordon, Grifwoid, Grove', Harper, HauWy.
Hindmwi, Hofmer, Imlay, Lyman, Machir,
Matrhfcws, Morgan, Morri», oti», Pinckney,
Uutledge, Sehureman, Scwall, Shepard, N.
Smith, S. Smith, Sprigue, Thatcher, Thoinp
, ion,. Tiliinghaft, Van Allen, Wadfworth, J.
WiiHims. —45.
Tlie bill was ordered to be engrofTed for a
third reading to-morrow.
A meflage was received from the Senate, in
forming the house, that they had parted a bill
for cresting in the Executive Department, an
eftablifhmentcalled the Department ofthe Navy.
Mr. Wadswohth, from the committee of
enrolment, reporting the bill providing a loan
for the city/)f Wafhingteu, as duly enrolled.
The Spkaksr laid before the house a report
from the Secretary of War, in pursuance of a
resolution houfe of the 28th ultimo, ac
counting fdf-the deficiencies dated to have aris
en in the appropriations of last year in the Mi
litia Department, which was referred to the
com-'ittee of the whole to whom was referred
the bilKmaking appropriations for the Military
Eftablifhroent.for the year 1798.
Mr. Sewall reported a bill to enable the
President of the United States to procure can
non, arms, and ammunition, and for other pur
poses, which was twice read, and committed to
a commitie of the whole on the State of the
Union. Adjourned
Tuesday, April 17.
MR. NEW presented an address and me
morial from the inhabitants of the coun
ty of Caroline, in Virgirya, stating the evils
which would attend a war with France, and
praying that means may be taken to avoid it,
if polfiblc.—Referred to the committee of the
whole on the state of the Union.
Mr. New also jjrefented the petition of
John Tyler, Which was referred to the com
mittee of claims.
The Speaker laid before the House the
petition of Philip Wilson, formerly a mer
chant of this city, but now residing iji Lon
don, stating his* lodes and didreffts in conse
quence of the war, and praying relief.—Or
dered to lie on the table.
A mefTagc jvas received from the Senate,
informing the House that they had consider
ed the bill declaring the aflent of Congress to
two adfs of the state of North.-Carolina, and
had resolved that it should not pass.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made a report on fundrv petitions for
an Increase and alterations in refpedl to pen
sions, many of which had heretofore been de
cided upon, nnd the House having determin
ed that as full provisions have been made in
refpetfto pensioners as is expedient to make,
this report states that the fcveral petitions,
ought not to be granted.—Ordered to lie on
the table.
Mr. Livingston, from th»-committee of
commerce and manufaftures, reported .1 bill
for the relief of Reuben Smith, Natlum
Strong, and Pierre Aupoix, which was com
mitted for to-morrow.
The bill providing an additional regiment j
of Artillery apd Engineers was.read the third j
time, when
Mr. M'Doweli moved to haveitrecom- j
nutted. He did not wilh to vote against the i
bill; but if it paired in its present form, both |
he and many others would do so, from an idea j
that this regiment was intended to form a part
of our permanent establishment. He also'
thought the number of men proposed to be
raised was greater than was neceflary for Oc
cupying our fortifications. - He hoped, there
fore, the bill would be recommitted, in order
to undergo some revifian.
The motien was negatived, there being on- I
ly 26 vote# for it. '
The queltiori on the parting of the bill was 1
then put »nd carried.
Mr. Coit said, from the orefent situation
of things, he fome alterations
would be neceflary in the present law for the
naturalization et foreigners. He therefore
proposed a resolution to the following effect:
" Resolved, that the committee appointed
for the proredtion of*commerce and the de
fence of our country be directed to enquire
and report whether it be not expedient to sus
pend, or toamend the art establishing an uni
form rule of naturalization'."
Some objedtion being made to the wording
of this resolution ; it was ordered to lie upon
the table till to-morrow.
On motion of Mr. Living ston, the House
went into a committee of the whole on the bill
for eredfing a light-house on Old Point Com
fort in Virginia, and for placing certai o buoys
and flakes therein mentioned j vihen the blank,
for containing the sum of money to be appro
priated being filled with 3050 dollar*, the
committee rofe,and the bill was ordered to be
engrofled for a third reading to-morrow.
Mr. W. C. Claiborne called for the or
der of the day 011 the report of the Secretary
of War on the petition of Captain Stephen
Cantrill; but on Mr. Sewa ll's exprefling a
desire to go into x committee of the whole on
the state of the Union, he gave way, and the
House accordingly tefolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole on the (late of the Union.
The committee being formed,
Mr. Sewail called up the bill to enable
the President to procure cannon, arms and
; ammunition ; which having been read, he
! moved to filP the blank left tor the sum to be
! appropriated for the purchase of cannon,
1 ammunition and military stores,
with dollars, which he dated was
agreeable to the estimate of the Secretary of
I War.
Mr. Otis thought this an enormous sum.
He wished the Chairman of the committee to
explain the items of which it wascompoled.
Mr. Sew all owned the appropriation ap-
I peared a large one, but 600,000 dollars of it
1 were for 50,000 stand of arms, calculated at
12 dollars each, which he believed would be
Jas low a price as they could be got for. If
| imported, they would cod less ; but if manu
factured here more. The Secretary of War
j also recommends the purchase of 1300 cannon.
1 He did not know that the whole of these
would ba immediately neceflary, but they
would be wanted in the course of a year, or a
| year and a half. The ammunition and milita
ry flore., in which were included powder,
ball, tents, See. wereeflimatedat 200,000 dol
■ lars, which he believed would not be too
much.
J.Williams thought the sum far
! v ery7arge~quan'fitu;s of arms an J cannon",''!
1 the arsenals of the United States, and though
j it btf admitted that the fortifications and vet
: fels will require a great number of cannon,
yet 1300 would be far too many. He should
, be willing to appropriate a fufficient sum, but
j not more. He knew the Secretary of War
had made a calculation to a very efrtenfive
i amount; but he wished to make his own cal
culations. He had done so, and was of opi
nion that 600,000 dollars would be as large a
sum as would be expended before Congress
met again. From having been on a commit
tee on the fubjeft of arms heretofdre, he
knew Tomething of their amount. The mili
tia to the eaftt»ard was generally well armed,
though to the fottthward this was not the cafe.
If 20,000 stand of arms could be got, he tho't
they would be fufficient; and he believed
they might be purchased for a much less sum
than haa been mentioned. Some of tjie bri
gade which he commanded had purchased of
a very good quality at nine dollars a ftahd,
and where they were got he believed more
might be had.
Mr. Otis said, if a small part of this sum
could be saved till next feflion, it would be
well. Every 100,000 dollars which could
now be saved was of consequence. Twelye
dollars appeared to him a great price for a
musket. He could not think so many can
non as had,.been named would be wanted.
Instead of 1, dollars, he hoped a milli- !
on would be agreed to. He could not think
that more would be wanted before the next
meeting of Congress. "
Mr. Sewail said, "a fraud of arms was not
to be estimated by the price of a musket. Se
veral other articles were included. He wasin
formed by the Secretary of War that they
could not be manufadhired here for less than
14 or 15 dollars, though they could be im
ported for less, but the importation would be
attended with uncertainty. There would be
no necedity, Mr. S. said, tor retaining the
whole sum proposed to be appropriated in the
Treasury, and whatever price the arms was
estimated at it would not be given, except it
were neceflary. He wished the appropriation
ta be liberal; as it was neceflary the country
should be prpvided with arms, whatever
might be the expence.
Mr. Harper did not wish to treat lightly
the arguments ofgentlemen who conceive
that the prefept situation of affairs does not
require so large an appropriation as is propo
sed for the purchase of arms and ammunition;
but he could not concur with them in opinion.
Gentlemen speak of cannon and arms, but
fay nothing ot military stores. Arms and can
nen, it is well known, are of no use without
these ; and so procure -tjiem will require con
siderable time and arrangements. They mud
be either created at home or purchased from
abroad, and the latter would always be pre
■ttrrions. WhßVr.fpetHo thequantity ofcan
non, he coufd not fay that 1300 would be ne
ceflary ; nor would he fay they would not be
neceflary. Would gentlemen recoiled* what
1300 cannon were on a coast of 2000 miles in
extent, and for all the military operations for
which thpy might be wanted ; and not only on
the coast and for military operations, but al
so in the vessels proposed to be conftrudled or
purchased for the pro of our trade and
commerce. With refpetl to the number of
small arms, how could any one fay w hat num
ber would be wanted ? Was it not one of the
nioft deplorable circumstances attending our
present situation, that we are destitute of
armsf And ought they not to provide.against
future exigencies, as well as the present I In
v?in would it be for us to raise revenue or
troops, without arms, and if they were wait
ed for till the time ofufing them was arrived,
the price of obtaining them at present would
fcc as a drop in the bucket, compared with
the conlequences Vefulting from a want of
j them. The exp»ncc ought, therefore, to be
I met without liefitatidrt. . . !
Gentleiiwi) had.spoke of arpntng the W.llt.a
j which alone, he fuppojed, confided of eight
| hundred thousand m«t( ; or if a select corps
1 was agreed to, they woiild consist of 130,000.
i And of what use would the organizing of our (
mWitiabe,if arms were not put in their hands > 1
Could any man fay we Ihould not have oc
casion to call ost 50 or 60,000 militia men.
It would be wanton so fay so, at a time when
we are threatened with enemies from without
and within ; when we .may be assailed from
the weft, from the foutli and from the east.
| When all these circumstances are taken into
view, he trafted the coniinittee would not aft
upon a short-sighted policy, but make ample
provilion, which not be done, he was '
persuaded, by appropriating a less sum than \
had been proposed. j
Mr. M'Dowfli. could not agree 111 opi- ;
nion with the gentleman lalt up. He had at
tended to tly Itatementniade by the,chairman
of the select committee; but he could not ;
believe it was neceflary to appropriate to so ,
large an amount as he had propoled, tho' he 1
wished to appropriate amply. -Gentlemen •
whoa£t under the imprellion that war is una- j
voidable, will consequently with lor greater
preparations, thofe who think different- |
fy. The gentleman just fat down was fori
providing for all polfible cases, from without !
or within. He thought 1300 cannon necelfa- ;
i ry, as amongst other things, they would be j
wanted for the additional vefFels contemplat
, ed to be built or purehafed. He believed lie
made this calculation rather too early. He j
hoped that measure would jiot be gone into. ;
: When gentlemen supposed every pollible (not
protfable) evil to happen to us, they might
incur enormous expences which were unne
ceflary. For his own part, he did not think
r we had much to apprehend from any enemy,
1 either from without or within ; t>ut 'f we
i were attacked, he had 110 fears as to the e
-1 vent. He hoped, however, they should not
: lavish away money unnecelfarily, as he was
fenrtble heavy taxes mtift be resorted to in
support of these expences. Speaking of can
non and fnrall arms, gentlemen did not take
: into view what we have at prelent oil hand.
1 It wa? well known we have have many of
; both, and that our mi(itj«i gajcrally arm
; ed. He hoped, therefort, a fmi'li Ttirti would
, be agreed to-
Mr. Sewa ll discovered that he had made
s a mistake in the adding of the diflere-nt items
f together. Making the deduction on this ac
count, and taking off something from the
number of the cannon which had been men
-3 tioned, he believed a million of dollars would
be fuflficient. He therefore proposed to fill
. the blank witli that sum.
t Mr. S. Smith said, if men were always
t to calculate the expence of a war, before it
e was gone into he believed wars would fel
f dom occur. He was of opinion that the
. quantity of tannon which had been named
r was not too gieat. The veflels proposed to
1. be built, or pjrehafed, will require betwixt 3
e and 400 cannm, the fortifications would also
y require agrest many, and it would be necef
a lary to have ; stock on hand, to replace such
. as might be tiken or destroyed. 50,000 stand
r, of small armi, in addition to what we have,
. could not be too many. Yet it may not be
0 necessary to provide for all these at this time
He did not beleve that the Secretary of War
ir could poflibh expend a million of dollars be
lt- fore the ift <*f January next, and no more
" n &e(i nnw hr appropriated than could be ex
h penuetr Deroie inSt mnr. - -w-„ el i
800,000 dolWs would be full as much as
1, could be expended before that time, and if a
d million was negatived, he should move that
it sum.
ir Mr. Gordon was of opinion with thegen
e tleman from Maryland, that a less sum than
. a million of dollars would be a fufficient ap~
. propriation for the present. Hethmight 1000
a cannon and 30,000 stand of arms would be a
s very ample provision. If an invasion should
- should take place during the recess of .Con
e grefs, they would, of course be again imme
. d:aiely called together, and before that time
[, the mohey how appropriated could not be ex
pended. If what he had mentioned should
t be thought fufficient, tljey, with the 200,000
1 dollars for ammunition, &c. wonlAamount
n to 890,000 dollars. He should, therefore, be.
. in favour of 900,00.0 dollars.
f Mr. Shepard was for doing every thing
, necessary ; but it appeared to him that they
e were about t» appropriate for a greater num
ber of cannon a» j small arms, than ever could
n be necessary. Ht. thought 1000 cannon and
e 20,000 stand of fufficient. He
i should, therefore, be in of the 800,000
e dollars. They ought, he said. to consider a
a little how the mopey was to be gc», before so
. large an appropriation was made. HebsJj eV
. Ed the arms he had mentioned, in additior.-to
. what we have,,wo'i}ld enable us to fight any
enemy thatcould ever come against us."
t Mr. Macon wished the bill had been dif
ferently drawn, and a separate appropriation
t had been made for each of the items menti
oned. He should have wished also to have
known the number of fortifications, and the
1 number f>f cannon they would require, as it
) would be useless to have fortifications with
out cannon. He believed it would be well
(as the gentleman last up had suggested) to
look at the expence of this business as they
proceeded. It had been said on a formerday,
firft take every measure necessary, and then
1 provide forthe expence ; but he was glad to
: find that gentlemen had now changed their
1 opinions, and begun to look at the expence.
He should be for reducing the number of can
non, and increasing that offniall arms.
Mr. Rutledge said, no gentleman was
' more sensible of the perilous situation of the
: country than he ; buthe thought this million
rather an exceftive calculation. The number
of cannon not only appeared to him large, but
the size seemed also extraordinarily large. He
observed the estimate contained 100 thirty
two pounders. No vessels that we have or
are likely to have, except the frigates, could
carry cannon of this size, and they are already
provided for. He did not think our'fortifica
tions required 32 pounders.
1 He saw in this estimate an item which he
thought ought not come within their calcu
lation, which was 200,000 dollars for copper
and fheathihg, In making this estimate, the
• Secretary of War had feveral'fhips of the line
: and twenty smaller vessels in view, which it
1 was probable would not be agreed to ;at lead
• he should be against them. He thought what
1 was necessary ought to be done, regardless of
expence ; but he was against incurring any un
necessary expence. He thought 800,000 dol
lars would be fufficient.
Mr. Dana hoped a million ot dollars would
not be appropriated for thisobjedf. He should
not hesitate at any experice if it were neces
sary to repel immediate danger ; but because
danger threatens, they ought not to make ap
propriations which would (hew that they did
not think coolly upon the business. He did
• not believe it would be of any advantage to
make a larger appropriation thin coafd be
expended within the year, because funds
mull be provided for every expence which is
goneinto; and if more than was necessary was
r appropriated in this instance, it would only
4»
fcrvc to cripple us in other measures, parti
i cuUVly witii rclpcd to our maritime defence ;
and as lie thought this of corifequence, lie
should wifhto lessen the prefcnt appropriation.
The Gentleman from Maryland had proposed
800,000 dollars; but he should think 700,000
would be fufficient.
(To be continued. J
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 21.
AT a meeting of a number of refpefta
ble citizens, held at the Tontine coffechoufe
on Friday the 20th of* April,' 1798.
i" William Neilson, Efqr. in the chair,
jlt was resolved that the following address
!be adopted for (ignature of persons pre
sent, that the citizens at large be invited to
concur in the fame, and that, W. Neilfon.
John B. Coles, Wm. W. Woolfey, James
Scott, and Col. Stevens, be a committee
to cause copies to be circulated through the
several wards, for the signature of all those
■ who ftnll approve the measure.
W. NEILSON, Chairman.
' Wm. IV. JVool/ey, Secretary.
To the Prejident of the United States, and
the Senate and House of Representatives in
Conrrefe n(T, mlhd :
The Refpedful ADDRESS of the Sub
: fcribers, citizens of Ncw-\«r!f.
I AT A TIME when a foreign power, in
support of inadmissible demands upon our
; country, declares its relianecupon divisions
among our citizens and upon the extftence
of a party favourable to its views, there ap
: pears to us a neceflity for an expression
of the public -epinion, as well to repel so
' derogatory an imputation as to manifeft to
J the government, on the part of its confli
. ■ tuents, a just and adequate sense, both of
; ! their rights and of their duties.
• j Under this i [rip re flic nwe now refpeft-
j fully offer a declaration of the sentiments
j by which we are a&uated on theprefent oc
casion.
In a review of the conduftof our govern
s ment lovt-ards the belligerent pal ties in the ft ill
■ subsisting war, we are happy to recognize
: fatisfa&ory evidence of upright intentions,
j and of a fiweere desire to cultivate and prr
| serve peace on the balls of justice and goods
faith. This had been in nothing more con
s fpicuous than in the measures .which, with
t so much solicitude and perseverance, have
" been pursued towards accommodation and
j reconciliation with the French Republic.
3 While we deeply regret the want of success
5 hitherto, we discover, with pride and plea
-3 sure, abundant caufe-for approbation of the
condudl of our government, and fLv confi
-1 dence in its wisdom and integrity ; and that
* whatever may be the issue of the unhappy
L differences between France and the United
States, the latter must be acquitted from
r blame.
Viewing the crisis as pregnant with dan
e gers of the most serious kind, calling equal
.ly for the exertion wisdoni and firmnefs
s cenfolai!"" in 11afu4i#"ve that nei
a ther will be wanting. Animated by this
t assurance, and rtfying on the blessing of Pro
vidence, we pledge ourselves to support with
" zeal andconftancy, the measures which the
n Councils of our country fhalldevife for the
0 security and defence of our national rights,
a honor and interests against the encroach
1 ments or attacks of any and eveiy foreign
Power.
fWe»*nderftand the above Address will
e shortly be handed to the Citizens for their
-j fignaturas. J
r BOSTON, april 18.
2, A meeting of the town of- Ipswich has
been called, forthe fubjeft of a petition
? about arming. The eit izens met, and after
[ reprobating the measure intended, and ex
j prelllng the utmost confidence in tWExe
\ cutive of the Union, they voted by a very
; great majority to dissolve the meeting After
P which they gave in their votes forgovenor
1 &of 114 votes given in, Gov, Sumner had
' IC4 ! How much more honorable to
t the Americanchara&er is such condudl than
r* the pusillanimous procedeingsof fometowns
we could mention. "
' TO BE SOLD,
; 40,959 acres of Land.
t Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennfyl
i. vania, on the waters of Fiih and Wheeling
j Creeks and Ten Mile Rim.
, These l.ands arcTertile and well timbered, and
f abound in Coal ; they weife fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per arre ; patented early in 1787,ex
j «pt 370 c acres, which ijrere -patentiid in 1791;
part of them were furvc*d in 1785. the trad
is between the Ohio and Monongahcla. very can
veaient to water carriage, about 19 mile 9 from
the town of WafhingtoriV fr<jm 14 to 16 from the
Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourtty of thepurchafe nio
' ney, a reasonable credit will be given forthe resi
due. Enquire of the Vrinter.
1 april 41. «
r *
| TO BE SOLI},
26,78 a acres of Land,
I TN the State of New York, between the northern
f J. bounds of Pennsylvania and the Safquehanna,
now, or late in the townships of Hamden and
Warreu and county of Warren.
These Lands, Irom thfir quality and situation,
; are a very desirable objedt for any man who means
tq invest his money to advantage.
[ On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, reasonable credit will t e given for the reft
' due. ' iinquireof the Printer.
[ april ar. j
: Ross Simsoa,
HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales superior Madrals blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firfl quality
A few bales Baitas, Coflaes, and a quantity of
' Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and box«s
«»«
april 10 §
Wanted,
An aflive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
afld do the blilinef's of the kitchen. ' Such a ine
will be allowed good wapes, and no other need: p
ply.—Enqtiir? of '.he Printer,
februsry 7 5
<2sasette*
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, April 23.
On Saturday last, near a hundred (launch
federalilh assembled at James Cammeron's
tavern, Shippen-ftc eet » ' n l^le diftrift of
Southwark, to partake of an elegant din
ner given in compliment to Benjamin R.
Morgan. For the convenience of accom
modating so large a company, the tables
were laid in the Ball Alley, (heltered from
the weather by two large fails extending
from end to end ; over the head ot" the Pre
sident waved, not the tri-colored emblem of
Gallic perfidy, but the banner of Freedom,
the Eagle of the United States. We are
happy to fay the most perfed harmony and
good order prevailed through the feftive
hour; that glow of enthufnfm which dif
tingui(hes the honest, firm and unhesitating
friends of their'country, causht from man
to man, till the spirit of independence (hone
forth with a lustre that did honor to the A
merican charafter. During the intervals of
the following toads, several songs, coapof
ed for the occalion, were sung.The inccfTant
huzzas with which they, with the toasts,
were received, gave to Southwark a found,
to which her ears have been too long unac
cultomed, the hearty acclamations of ge
nuine Patriotism..
TOASTS.
1. The Confiitution of the United States—
Ferpetuity to its principles, fuacefs to its friends,
and reformation to jts enemies. —9 cheers
2. The president of the United State*—May
the patriotic, manly, and decisive raeaftires at
his adminiflration.corvince the world, rfcat firm
nefs, honor and independent, are the striking
features i.i the American charailer—9 ci:ee-s.
George Washington—May every Ara.rir
can inspired with his virtues and hrs Courage, he
equally ready to serve their country, in peace,
and in wir—9 cheers. ...
4. The Senate et the United States, the fafe
guard of the honor, the interefls, and the inde
pendence of our country —9 theers.
5. The American people—May they banish
from their councils and their confidence, those
who have ftiewn a disposition to degrade their
country. —9 cheers.
6. .The Howfe of Reprefentativesof the Unit
ed States —May its deliberations be«incontroul
ed and undefiled by imported doflrines, uncon
genial with the AmericanSrliaraaer, and incon
liftent with its dignity.— 9 cheers.
7. Our Envoys to France —May they soon
meet in their native land, with the most accep
table reward to an American bosom, the grati
tude of their country. —9 Cheers.
8. The Diftriil of Southwark —May it? mis
taken citizen* be undeceived,' and its former
federalcharaiSer befpeedily reftored.^— 9 cheers.
9. Death to Jacobin principles throughout
the world.— 9 chters.
10. May France loon learn, that Americjns
are superior to the corruption with which (lie
has threatened us, and that we are Rot a divid
cd noop'c In tKscaufc of our country. —9 cheers.
T®. Honor to the political penitent who feei
his error, and resolves to fin no more. —9 cheers.
12. The infant nary of the United Stated-
Like the infant"Hercule9, may it even in itt rra
dle ftratigle the serpents which would poiion
American glory.—9 cheers
-13. The American Seamen —May they (hew
themselves not the mere instruments of com
merce, but the able defenders of their country.
9 cheers
-14. May those wretches among us on whom
France calculates for our deftrudlion be speedily
dete£Ud and puniflied.— 9 cheers.
15. May the Atlantic be a Red Sea to all who
(hall attempt to invade pur country. —12 cheers.
16. Timothy Pickering, who with honest
firianefs, hath withstood domestic calumny, and
foreign insult.— 9 cheers.
17. Oliver Wolcott, the able and upright
friend of his country. — 9 cheers.
38. James McHenry, Secretary at War,
the tried fuend and supporter of his country's
independence.— 9 cheers.
i(). Mjy all men detest the wretch,who would
juftify foreign depravity at the expence of hii
own country. —9 cheers.
20. The Northern Liberties—May their sup
port of the government of their country put its
enemies to shame. —9 cheers.
VOLUNTEERS.
By Mr. Robert Geodloe Harper. The triit
means of national greatnel's, " the unconquer
able* will and courage never to submit or yield."
—9 cheers,
By Col. Francis Gurney. May the genius
of America inspire her sons with that force of
sentiment and spirit, to guard and defend her
confiitution and liberties, which they exerted ia
the eftablilhment of her independence.—9 cheers.
By Isaac Phipps. The found of a trumpet
hath gone forth, fanftify yourselves, hsld faft,
and we know not what may be done for us.—
| 9 cheers.
After Benjamin R. Morgan withdrew,
By Joseph Hall Fleming. Benj. R. Morgan,
the firm supporter of his coyntry's rights, li
berties and cheers.
After Mr. Harper withdrew,
By Joseph Thomas. Robert Goodloe Har
per, the firm oppofcr of diforganizcrs, and the
decided advocate of the liberties of his coun
try.—9 Cheers.
After Mr. Anthony Morris withdrew,
By Peter Miercken. Anthony Morris, a re
publican indeed, a native American, and a ufe
fulreprefentative, ever ready at the call of free
dom.—q cheers.
After Mr. Tittermary withdrew,
By Mr. Joseph Huddell, jun. Richard Tit
termary. the worthy representative of South
wark, may he receive the gratitude of his con
stituents, for his decided federalifm, and mark
ed opposition, to the degrading motion of Wil
liam Maehy, for intlruifling our representa
tives, to debase their country.-—9 cheers.
Afrer Jos. Thomae, & Mich'Keppele withdrew,
By William Ciiffton, jun, Joseph Thomas
and Michael Kepptle, without whose patriotic
exertions, to' refcutf one of our most valuable
rights from pollution, the pleasures of this meet
ing would never have been enjoyed.— 9 cheers.
After Robert Wharton withdrew.
By Mr. Oakford. Robert Wharton, the ene
my of iedition, the supporter of freedom, and
the uniform friend of the confiitution and laws
of America.— 9 cheers.
By James Cornish. The sons of Columbia
May they ilie free, raiher than submit to be
slaves.— 9 rheers.
After the President withdrew,
Joshua Humphries.- -9 cheers-
After the Vice-Preßdent withdrew,
Peter Mienkea.— 9 cheers.Sung in the occajioit.
I.
Comegettiua of our happy land.
And blef« this feftive day ',
Thy sons are we, a loyal band,
Who love thee and obey. »
CHORHS.
For should the blift of war be heard,
To threat impending harms, '
Secure beneath thy vet'ran bird*'
We'll brave the world in arms.
11.
Bold asottr Sires, not born to yield,
But fcorh for fcom betlow ;
The hloTToms wrhicb adorn our fields,
Bloom not to deck a foe.
Cltruj For Ihould the blast of war, &e.
lit.
From traitor friends, with serpent smile,
We'll rend the thin difguile,
Who speak of faith, and love the while
They pillage and despise-
Cborut-~For Ihould the blast of war, &c*
IV '
Here once, by folly'slon» difplay'J,
The Gallic standard flione ;
No ribband now our feafis invad«,
There waves our flag alone.
Clcrtu—Andfliould the blast of war, &c.
V.
With generous « me your Vump«rs fill,
Where purple joy 9 resort ;
Peace to the Sace of Vern<;n Hill,
To Adams here's surponT.
Ciorus—Then (hould the blast of war, &c.
Princetoivn, April 21, 1
MR. FENNO,
The following address ttv the President
and both houses of Congress was agreed to ;
with a unanimity and zeal that I have never
witnessed li ce the years '75 and '76. In- |
vitations to assemble were circulated in the 1
country for a we&'x preceeding the meeting, j
When the citizens were met the importance ,
of the crisis, and the propriety of address
ing the President and Leg : flature of the U- |
nited States, were conciftly dated. They
entered into the idea with warmth, ippoint
fed a committee to prepare the addref3, and J
adjourned—when the committee were reariy :
to report, they re-afTcmbled. The adarefs ;
was read. It was then rfpeated paragraph
by paragraph ; and on each, a vote was
taken, which, in every inltance, appeared
to be unanimous. As each paragraph was :
read, several gentlemen present took an op
portunity to detail and enforce the ideas
contained in it. An ardor was visible in the
whole assembly that mud have given plea
fureto every veal friend to his country, and
shewed that the true tone of the American
charafter, free and independent, was be
ginning to be reflored in all its purity 3nd
energy.
The following Address was this day preferr
ed by Mr. Stockton and read in the Senate
of the United States :
A large and refpeftable meeting of citi
zens inhabitants of the townships of Wind
sor and Montgomery, and the towns of
Princeton and Kingftan in the state of
New-Jersey having a fie m bled in the church
at Princeton on Saturday the 21ft of A
pril agreeably to invitations previoufiy giv
en for the purpose, it was unanimously re
folded to prsfent tothe President, the fe
liatc and house of representatives, the fol
lowing dutiful and loyal address.
Legijlators and Rulers of America !
At an interesting crisis like the present
you will naturally be solicitous to
cerely possessed of the public sentiment,
and to know to what point you may de
pend on the cheerful and zealous
tion and aid of every citizen iji the ener
getic mcaftires which, you may find it ne
cessary t adopt for the public good. Al
though claiming an equality with you in
your private and individual capacities as
your fellow citizens, in your representative
fun&ions we venerate you as the organs,
and respeCt, in your persons, the majetly
of tKe laws. We presume not under the
form of resolutions or iriuro£tions to dic
tate to those to whom we have eo' ro^
the right of judging, and whoft situation
affords them the best means of forming their
decisions with vvifdom, and an equal regard
to the general interests. We have assembled
at this important moment only to pledge to
you our loyalty and fidelity. We estimate
at its firft value the precions liberty which
ive enjoy ; and we feel with an honefl pride
thns national dignity, and that felf-refpe£t
which the freed people upon earth ought to
feel. Americans ha»c broken the yoke of
one tyrant and they will not become the tri
butaries of another.
We have feeu with indignation the depre
dations committed on our lawfui commerce,
and the repeated iufults offered to our gov
ernment, whilst it has fought nothing but
peace on jufl andequitable terms- Wehave
seen with the difdlinful sentiments that be
come freemen the late efforts to reduce
us to the dependent and degraded state
of Milan or Genoa, or to enslave and
dismember us like the miserable re public of
Venice. We have seen with the mingled e
motions of resentment and contempt the in
solent proposals to exaft from us an eior
mous and incalculable tribute not only to
aid the national interefb of France, which,
tho' less humiliating W >uld ft ill be intpler3-
ble to a free people, but to maintain the pro
fligacy and vice of their individaal agents ;
a Condition below infamy itfelf. Legisla
tors ! Rulers L "We pledge to yon our
£iW, our Fortunes and our facrcd Honour:
We will cheerfully submit to every pecuniary
burden you may think it reqtufiteto
for the public good : and the militia o. New
Terfey will, as they have always done, fly at
Y<Ml r command either to rep-1 the invasion
of foreign enemies, or to crush the villaihy
of domeflic traitors. We pray for peace
whilst it can be preserved on honourable
terms ; but trusting in heaven, in our cou
rage, and in the juilice of our cause, we
cannor fear the insolent menace of any n -
tion. The calamities and the expences of
war we deprecate, but we hold no calamity
to be so great as that of dependence on a fo
reign power, and no calculate can be made
.f LLal honour except by ihofe who de
serve to bA people who can so far
forjret themselves nuift soon fubrr.it to ex
aftfiLs calculated not on their aUity to pay.
but on tke wants, the wilt, and the vices of
their tyrants.
Our confidence in the wisdom and inte- i
grity of the Executive of the United States
,has always been undiaken and entire, andwe
find it daily augmented by the developement
of events, if diviiionD have weakened the
Lcgiflatun; and tempted the avarice or am
bition of foreign powers to form from it the
most criminal expectations, we trufl that
hereafter unanimity and energy will defeat
their unwarrantable views. As tar as de
pends on us we will refute the (landers that
have reprefentcd'usa peopledividedfrom our
government ; w£ wyjf disappoint those in
sidious intriguer# who are inctffantly driving
to Create a feparatiou that they 'mav have a
pretence for intermeddling in our domeflic
policy, and at length an opportunity to en
slave us, k as they have done so many other
Jlates by taking under their protedion a tur
bulent fa&ion in the name of the people/
In proportion as the sincerity and human
ity of the American people have led them
to shew a forbearance in the pursuit of peace
which has been misconstrued into pufillanimi
ty,cr a mercenary dereli&ion of the solid in
terests and the glory of their country, will
c they, when robfed l»y the injuttice of their
enemies, display a noble firmnefs and enter
prizc in its defence.
Although it belongs not to us to di&aje
lt measures to the government, it is a privi
-0 | lege which we trust will not be unacceptable
, r ! to you in this trying junfture, to declare i
j our warm and unequivocal approbation of!
le J the wife and temperate system that has hi- I
r | therto been pursued with refpeft to our so- i
! c ! reign relations, and our undiminifhed confi- '
j-_ ; dence in those who preside over the affairs !
i of the nation with so much wisdom and pru-1
y ? dence. We are prepared for every event.— !
t- y ou fiiou'd deem it necessary to»mpofe a ;
[( j i rellraint upon foreign commerce, we will |
y ! cheerfully forego the conveniences of living j
s 3 ; which commerce yields. If on the other |
hand you refol»e to claim your rights, and \
as ; bravely to defend them, we make not indeed j
l( j . any boaftful profeflions of chaining viftory '
as ; to our arms, but we fear not to meet either j
p. j in the field or pn the ocean those who have
a 9 been accustomed to boast. That the Ete«-
lc nal who pre fides in secret over the fates of
a _ empires maypreferve the American people,
1( j and ever have your Excellency, and you the
m ' honorable members of the Senate, and the
e _ House of Representatives in his gracious and
|C j powerful protedfion is the fervent prayer of
your refpe&ful fellow-citizens, and the obe
dient fubje&s of the laws, the inhabitants
t . and freeholders of the. pi ecinflg of Prioce
te ton and Kingston, and the townships of
Montgomery and Windsor in the State of
j_ New-Jersey.
i. Signed by order of thv.meeting.
Enos Kelsey, Chairman.
of
:h GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
e c [ ARRIVED, diys
, Brig American, Burke, Laguira
" Porga, Wert, Kingston, Jamaica 35
Maria, Sherer, Charleston, 6
Sch. Tanner's Delight, Hooper, do 6
nt Sch'r. Boston, Clark, Cape Francois 11
n . Abigail, Chadwick, N. Carolina 12
t Johanna Tucker, Daye, Norfolk, 3
' Ann, Robinson, ' do. 1 •
Dove, Price, do. 4
a " Eleanor, Carter, Virginia 7
:r- Eljza, Little, do. 7
ie- Margery, Rutland, do. 9
j. Fanny Bridger, Dunn, N. York 6
• Paragon, do. 12
i Susanna, Green, do. «7
38 ' Sloop Favorite, Tell, Gonaives
TC George, Farmer, Norfolk - .
is, Favorite, Laveiider.-^^ 3 ' 1^17 ' 3 25
\v Polly, Gla^^ 1 -"' Carolina 17
h e Skidrtlbre, do. 4
Harlequin, Vanpelt, do. 7
IC ." Sally, Gardner, N. London,
ed Laura, Barker, Nantucket, 7
0,1 Beauforr, Hammond, Charleston 25
cir Randolph, Buckly, Richmond
rd Experiment, Rock, Richmond,
Lydia & Betsey, Ward, do 8
CLEARED.
l t ° ! Ship Aftive, Harper Havanna
lte Brio-Sally andßetl'ey r Biifcoa & Bor
ch 0 deaux
de Susanna, Lewis, H^anna
Schr. Fred. Packet, Bender, Gibraltrr
to j Sally, Sherer, Surrinam
r Regulator, SJiockley N. Providence
°> 1 Fancy, Pointer, < io
r '" • F. American, Coffinghans, Norfolk
Sloop Orange, Foster, Liverpool, N. S
-e- Little Poll, Clark, Alexandria
:e, i Peggy, Berry,
f I IS »• Bartholoniews
ve i Capt. Clark left at Cape Francois, the 29th
,e - ult the following veffek of this port
!ce Brie Jane, Vanlife, to fail in s days.
lte Susannah, Hunt, discharging.
n( j Polly, Coffin, do
of Schr. John, Ford, do
Betfv, Connell, do
1 e " Dick, Lillibridge, to iail in 31 ° a ys. .
in " Capt. Teel left at Gonaives the fchr. In
or- to n, Thornton, of this N " York
to and Philadelphia Packet, RuffeU do.
. J Schooner Patriot, Hammer, from hel.ee to
1 Gonaives,is taken and carried into Jean Rabel.
G ° Br t Gen- Wafliington, Devereaux, trom
ro " ' hence°to Surrinam, iswken by the French and
s ' Cent into St. Martins, having had Role de
; lent in Tomb—the peo
l„, ' ra»
" The Tane, of Baltimore, has been ft .it into
"* Kintrfton, Jamaica, by the Aquillon frigate.
,r / ; prom the Log Book of the American, captain
j Burke, from Laguira.
ew ■ A r ;i g. Lat. 27. long. 69.— At 9A. M.
r at ; faw A ,vo fail in the N. W. quarter which
ace t tacked (hp dose und( - r ,i )e larboard
1 lie , both ~e tired twothot and haiipd, the
- j finer four,"then racked and gave chaie.
we I The brig fired a bow gun, and i- un( \
„ -! KLd 3s b. r .y »
•° f • up the chafe'and flood to-the fouth
lty j wardsga F. ted I 2 and the schooner
f0 " i T/uns and full of men. At 1 P, M. aw a
£ I weft of "the
far | privateer ; the was the Liberty, of and iron,
"/ i Aniv/dVt New-York, on Saturday, th
flup Atlas 39 daysfrom Hull. The Atlas
spoke on thecoaft the (hip Favorite, Drum
mond, from London to New-York.
Ship Enterprize, Norn's, from hente is
arrived at Hamburgh.
By the brig Maria, Capt. Shercr, arrived
yesterday in 6 d,iys from C/jarie/lon.
CHARLESTON, April u.
By tfie (hip Penelope, Capt. Flagg,
which arrived yesterday in 41 days from
Bourdeaux, we learn that qur Envoys had
ot then l«:en admitted to an audience by
the Direftory ; but three days before capt.
a gg Wc Bourdeaux, he was informed by '
Mr. Fenwick, our Cotrful, that he had
received a letter frorti gen. Pinckney, in j
which he mentioned that the Direftory had v
appointed the 2cth of March as the day on 1
which they were to have an audience. A c
letter containing the fame advice had been , I
received from gen. Pinckney by Mr. Hqrry ' c
who has taken h : s passage from Bourdeaux v
in the (hip Pomona, bound to Alexandria. 't
All accounts by the Panelope, as late as t
the 20th February, agree in faying, that a v
rupture between France and America de- \
pends on the measures the government of: \
the United States may take, relative to the {
conduft of France ; that if hoftilitiea take f
place, they will begin by Americans mak- c
ing reprisals, some declaration, or an alii- j
ence with the enemies of Fraace, as the j 1
French find too great advantages in the im- j 1
puriity of their present conduft, to change | ]
their system into declared hostility ; and it , t
is thought thty will not foften their con-; c
dust or offer reparation, on the contrary ]
they fay the injury and insults come from «
us. and tljey themselves a(k inderanifieation. j t
The greatest exertions were making in all, t
the ports of France to get ready the cxpe- (
dition against England. It appeared t*> be 1
the determination of the French government :
to facrifice every vessel thty had, rather than
the scheme ffiould fail. men were I
to go on the expedition from Brest and two i
other parts, and every vessel which could ]
carry 80 men and upwards was in a slate | 1
of requisition It was said • the attempt 1
would be made in the month of May. <
By this vessel a letter was received by a c
gentleman in this city from Mr. Pinckney i
dated Feb. 7, in which he fays that they ]
were not yet received. On the 31ft ult a <
.memorial was presented hy them to the 4 Ex- 1
ecutive Direftory requeftingthat they would
fumifh them with, the reasons why they
were n6t acknowledged ; and if thty were
ot received, they would in a few days re
quest passports to leave the Republic. No
answer had been received at th: date of the
letter.
JUST ARRIVED,
In the brigGayofo,capt.Bingham, fromSt.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality ,
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty dafks Vinegar
4lfi, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu HoUingfworth & Co.
Nu. »», Little Water ftraet, South,
april M>
New Publication.
A Sen/ible, Seasonable and Spirited
A D D R E SJJ-
Written by a C.tizen of .Pl^ph.a-ent.tled,
« What tfur Situation r
A N li
What our Profpe&s ?"
A few Pages for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner ot Chefnut and Second ftreett,
And at the Office of the Editor, 119 Chefnut ftr.
(Price three Jixtcenths cf a JoLlar)
Fxtraift above.
" When hour by hour we are yielding
point by point ; relinquishing one right to
day and preparing to facrifice another to
morrow, these generous friends tread rapid
ly on our steps, and every new concession
but opens a new demand. Rapacity grows
more insolent by uninterrupted success, and
timid submission invites depredation-Where
will this end ? What offering will gorge the
appetite of plunder, or appease the rage
of unrefifted hostility ? No civilized nation
has ever before been guilty of such outrage
and ins lence, no free nation has ever be
fore
advertisement.
LODGED if theTreafufy of the United States to
• be funded, and for sale, between twenty and thirty
thousand dollars in Public Securities, endorsed by the
United Slates, with the promiXe to pay the inieiell an
nually at five per cent, per annum.
The owners wanting money, will difpote oi the
whole furn at twenty-five per cent, discount So large
a dif-ount will nuke, it in objefl with momed men
who confide in public credit, or rely upon the moll
oerteft engagement ever entered into by,Congrefs.
Enquire of JOHN M. TAYLOR, 85, Chefnut
flreet. ,
N.B. McEwen & Co. never gave us any autho
rity to insert the above advertisement, —although
1 ; t has anpeared wi.h their names
april 18
1 A PretniuTnoTToo Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank of Pennsylva
nia, for fuih Plan of a Banking House,
. accompanied with felons and elevations, as may
) be approved of by the Direaors. The building is
not intern Jed to exceed 60 feet front, or 100 Teet
1 in depth, and to be so planned a. to admit of u»
being made fire-'proot. It is remiefted that the
plans may be feu- te the Caihier of the Bank, pre
i vioiis to tke firfi of Jane next.
anril 19 tutbft.Je
3 The Annual Election
" "TJ"OR Directors and a Treasurer of the Library
r Company of Philadelphia, will be held at the
5 Library, in" Fifth flreet, on Msnday, the 7th ol
May next, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
j the Treasurer will attend to receive the annual
_ " AiTthere are several (bares on which finei are
' due, the owners ol them, or their representatives,
r are hereby notified, that they will be forleited, a
a zreeably to the laws of the company, unlets the
1 arrears are paid off on the said 7th day of May,
e or within ten day*' after.
1 By ord-r of th • Directors,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN, Sfcrctary.
Aprii 7 j*™
%ij e (sa;ette.
P HIL ADR L PHIA ,
MONDAY EVENING, April 23.
--■ 1 ■ , , •
This day at 12 o'clock the Mayor, Re
corder, and Aldermen, and the Scle& '
and Common Councils of Philadelphia,
waited on the PreCdent of the United :
States, wi}h the following
ADDRESS:
Tothe President of the Uhited States.
At a moment when dangers threaten the
peace and prosperity of the Unitecf'States,
when foreign insolence and rapine have deep
ly wounded our national honor and injured
our lawful commerce; it is presumed the
Mayor, Aldermen and Citizens of the city
of Philadelphia will not be unwelcome—
when they come forward to assure you of
their perfeA approbation of your adminiftra- t
tion, and their entire confidence in your
wisdom, integrity and patriotiim. While
we admire th«- prudence and moderation with
which our government has received the un
provoked aggreflions of France, and the
sincerity and equity of your endeavors to
conciliate her friendfiiip, we feel the inde
pendent pride of Americans in your dig
nity and firmnefs. As we are fatisfied that
nothing has been wanting on your part to
preserve to us the blessings of peace and fafe
ty, we prepare to meet with fortitude the
confequencej that may follow the failure of
your exertions. Confident that our gov
ernment has been jaft and impartial in her
dealings with all nations, and grateful for
the happiness and prosperity we have enjoy
ed under it in the days of tranquility, we do
nttt hefi'ate to promise it our utmost assist
ance in the -time of difficulty and need.
Preluding over the counsels of your coun
try in a most eventful erifia ; we hope and ■
trust you will find a fikrd arid energetic fup
pctin the people of America. Permit us
to congratulate you on the profpeift of una
nimity that now presents itfelf to the hopes
of every American, and on the spirit of in
dependent patriotism that is rapidly rising
into aftive exertion—and to offer a sincere
pyayer that while you continue to serve your
country with wisdom ahd fidelity,-you may
never find her ungrateful.
Hilary Baker, Mayor.
' Francis Gußney, President
of the SeleSt Council.
Kearny Wharton, President
of the Common Council.
ANSWER.
7 0 the Mayor, Aldermen and, Citizens of the
City of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
Never, as I can recollect, were any class
of my fellow-citizens more welcome -t»
on any ocnafion fritf the mayor, aldermen
and citizens of the city of Philadelphia,
upon this. K -
At a time, when all the old republics of
Europe are crumbling into dust, and o
thers forming, whose destinies are dubious ;
when the monarchies of the eld world are
some of them fallen, and others trembling
to their foundations ; when our own infant
Republic has Jcarcely had time to cement its
or decide its own practicable form ;
when these agitations of the human species
have affefted our people, and produced a
spirit of party which fcmples not to go SIF
lengths of profligacy, falfehood and malig
nity in defaming ourgovernrnjat f j-(
probation and conficU-n-cc are to'me a great
confolatiop. Under your immediate obfer
vatjon and infpeftion, the principal opera
tions of the government are direded ; and
to yon, both .chara&ers and conduit must
be intimately known.
I am but one of' the American pepple,
and my fate and fortune mu.t be decided
with theirs. As far as the forcesof nature
may remain to me, I will not be wanting in
my duties to them, nor will I harbor a suspi
cion that they will fail to afford me all ne
ceffary aid and support.
While, with the £reatefl pleasure, I re
ciprocate your congratulations " on the prof
peft of unanimity that now presents itfelf to
the hopes of every American, and on
that spirit of Patriotism and Independence
that is rising into a&iye exertion in oppo
sition to fedudion, domination and rapine,
I(offer a sincere prayer that the citizens of
Philadelphia may persevere in the virtuous
course and maintain the honorable
> eros their ancestors, and be protested from
' every calamity physical, moral and politi
cal.
JOHN ADAMS;
: Philadelphia, April 13, 1798.
[ Married on Thursday evening last, by
the Rev. Mr. Neale, Mr. John Reily of
t this city to Miss Mary Reily, daughter
of Mr. John Reily of Evefham, New-Jer
i
Died on board the afliftance of 50 guns,
in Hampton Roads, Commodore Mowat,
second in command of the British squadron
oh the American flation, his remains were
r interred on Tuesday last at Hanpton.
s Three British ships of war lay in Hamp
! ton Rfiads on Friday last. lire Thetis has
* failed for Halifax, to repair -
Captain Burke further iufoims, that a
proclamation was iffed at La Guira, for
bidding any Spahifli vessel leaving that port
for Curracoa, as accounts were received of
, that place being besieged by the British;
: that the fchr. privateer Kitty Sheen, of 12
1 guns, belonging to Tortola, was brought
j into La Guira by
were imprefling to man the Hermiohe fri
. gate : that the British ship Good Intent,
. H°gg> Liverpool, from Africa to the
- Weft Indies, with slaves, was takrfn by a
French privateer, and carried into La Gu
' ira, where the slaves were fold.
Mr. Bache has issued a threat at the
managers of the Theatre, stating that their
■.„ >. - ></ • j. v • !
due obedience to tlie late rcper.tcd iouJ ! >t
general calls far national music may occra*
fion the jacobins to withdraw from tbd
lioufc. -
This is perhaps of all others one of thi
inoft unfortunate reaforts that could be df-*
signed ; since h must have become a gener
« wish that the enemies to their country
ihould be driven out ®f all refpeftable plac
es and alTociations ; and it is also a fadt
that the creditors of these reprobates are
frequently in want of the money thus ex
pended.
NEW-THEATRE.
Mrs. Worrell's Nigbt.
THIS EVENING, April 23,
Will be prrfenttd (never performed in America)
a DRAMATIC ROMANCE, called,
THE SPECTRE ;
QR-,
THE CASTLE OF THE FOREST,
With i'he MUSICALJ3RAMA ot
The Children in the Wood.
For One Night,
At RICKf.TS'I CIRCUS, Chefnut Ssreet,
ON rUESDAT, Aprii. 24,
Mr. C H A L M ERS,
Refpe&fully invites his Friends and the Ciiizenji
of Philadelohia to
AN OLIO,
OR,
WHIM OF THE MOMENT,
Confining of four divffiun». v
ift PART.
Anoccafional Address, by Mr. Chalmers.
A Song of D.kdin'f—Father. Mother, and Suke-
By Mr Sully.
Collin'* Ode to Mwfie.
Dejiribing th« joC'Owing PaJJion^
Fear, Anger, DefpaU, Hope. Revenge, P**y» Jf a *
lousy, Melancholy, Cheers 'lneTs. and Joy—will*
an InVocation to ancient Muftc—*b'y Mr. Chal
mers
Comic Son?, Paddy O'Blarr.ey---Mr. Sully.
Concerto on the Piano Forte- -bv Mr. Bcnj. Carr.
To firtifh with the
Genrlcman Jockey, or Trip from Ncw-A>laTket,j
Taken from a la mode.
Beau Morde^ai —Mr. Sully,
Charlotte by z Young Lady of his ciry.
Squire Gioom, i core ufive Addrels, by Mr.
Cha^irers.
ad P RT.
The firft aft of The C 1 iric. bv Sheridan.
The characters of Puff, bv Mr. Calmer -- Dandle,
Mr* Sully-Sneer, Mr. Frederick, (his tirft ap
pearance in Philadelphia)—-M's Dangle, Mflr
Rowfon,
To which will be in trod ced. tkcNfdnor of
'Twas within a mile of Edinbu'g tawn
By the young ladv who pla\s Charlotte.
3d PART
Tumbling—.b? Mr.SuJy and his Pupils.
The Seven Agrs of Shakelpeare* from his As yoti
like it—by Mr. Chalmers.
Concluding with a TragicaJ, Comical. Political,
Rhapsodical, Poetical, Profaical. Whimsical Pa
rody the fame;
A Double Hornpipe, by Mr. Sully and Mrs Row
fon.
The Comic Tale of Tom King, or Monueur Toe* ,
witotl bv W-. Chalmers*
4<h P ' RT.
A Pantomime Sketch, called the
VAGARIES.
Harlequin, Mr. Chalmers —Farmer. Mr. Frederick)
Clown, Mr. Sully Colombine, M:s Rowion.
The whole to conclude vjth
GRAND AND LOFTY TUMBLING
By Mr. Svllt.
Tickets and Place® for the Boxe* to be taken at Mr
B. Carr's Music Stoic, Market-frreet, and o Mr
Chalmers, at Mr. Fre.man'«, No. 351, f. Fron
street, from 10 till 1 in the Morning, and from 3 till
5 in the Afternoon
To begin at 7 o'clockß"xes I do!l. Pit t 2 a doll.
t£y- Should the weather prove uaCa"or»t>!c, the
perfoiraances will be pQUggotJ.
For S?le, ,
ON the 26:h April at 7 o'ciock-iR
in the eveniwr,«tthe Merchant's
CofTc'*|Kcuf.. She now lays, and maybe seen at
Vv illing and Francis's wharf, is ready to take x car
go on board, and may be fenttofea at a small ex
pence — Terms inapproved nstesit 3and 6months.
Inver'ory to be seen at the time of file.
a P"I djt
For Kingston, Jamaica,
la,ltnsI a,ltn s
Schooner HOPE,
Silas Foster, mafttfr.
to fail on Thurfrlay morring next—-
For Passage only, apply at No, 149 South Front
street.
IVhere may be bad,
Malaga and Mountain Wine in hhds. and qr.
calks; a few cafles of old Colemcnar Wine, and a
few packages Calcutta Goods.
»P f il *s■ - * 3t
WANTED,
APPROVF.D on Amflerdam —for which
cafii will be given at the rate of thirty seven cents
per guilder. Enquire of the Caihier of the Bank
of the United States.
April 13
For Sale,
The ?argo ofthebrig American from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
Ca'accas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. 11 j, South Fourth Street.
aprii 13 5
FOUND,
A SILVER IVATCH,
Which the owner may h+r of, by applying to
John Riley, No. ri, Soutli Second Street.
, a pri' *3 it
LOST,
A green silk Umbrella,
ALMOST new, very large and heavy, suppos
ed to bt left in the gallery of congrels hall
or in foue store. Any prrfon Laving the fame at
the office of this Gazette Ihall have Iwo dollar! rc
ward, or at No. Arcit llreet. April H —3t
Prison Manufadtory^
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Phibdel
phia,
I Cut Nails of all fizts, Irom 3dy to aody
! Flooring Brads, Spriggj, faddlc and card Ta:k»
j Oakum and chipped Logwood
; Shoemakers and.Sad'.trs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, fuitablt for currier's tables,
j tomb and hea . Hones, hearths, chimney piccts'
I platforms, slabs, lacia, window heais, lills. c '
All whith may he had on reatonabl terms,
j Shoes made and Weaving .done at said Prison n{
a moderate price.
Orders from a diftance,.diretSled to DanieJ Tho
mas, agent for the priTcn/will be attended to.
December 26. ' mt h6 m:
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN purfuancfe of the AQI of Congress paffcd oh the fntth day of July one thousand seven hundred and 1
ninety-fcven, entitled " An Ail laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
AA parted on the fifteenth day of December, ene thousand fsven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled ;
" An AA to postpone for a limited time the commutccmcnt of the daties imposed by the A<St enti- j,
tied " An Av-t laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the ' (
firft day of July ensuing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and tollec- «
ted throughout the United States. (
Por every skin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, upon which (hall be |
written of printed any or either of the instruments or writings; ollowing—to wit:
His Cts: Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - . - j
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of tbe admifiion,enrolment er registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proflor, in any Court of the
United Statei, ... - - 10
Provided, that a Certificf te in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of thefaid Offices, shall so far as relates to the payment of the
doty aforefald, be a fuffitient admifiion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of thefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military lervices) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Bottcmry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - I
Any Receipt or difeharge for or on aciountof any Legacy left by any Will or o
ther tefhmentary instrument, or for any Ihare or part of a personal eliate di
vided by force of amy statute of diftritmtions, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of Oge Hun
dred Dollars, .... - 15
When the.amount thereof ffiall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and N
Ihall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - 50
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Any Policy of Infuratice or instrument in nature thereof, on any (hip, veflel or
goods insured from one diftriit to another in the United States,
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 15.
When the sum insured shall exceed dollars, - I
Any Exemplification, of what nstnre soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furaifh for the use of the United States or some particular state, - 50
Any Bond, biil single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promissory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with tße United States or any Hate, or for their
uferefpe<£tively, ....
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - to
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
Jf above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, jo
And if above one thousand dollars, . 4 - . -
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within Cxty days,
such bonds or notes shall be fubjefl to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid —viz. - - " ,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - I 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred doll ji s, I 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoufaud dollars, J 10
If above «ne thousand dollars, ....
AflV Notes ifined by the banks now <;flibliftred, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the' United States, other than the noros of luch of the said Banks
as (ha)l agree to an annual compaction, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpeflivety, xccordiag to
t,he following scale. - - -' -
On alt notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - <►
On notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - * " J
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - 1
Any Protest or other Notarial ail, - - -
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfios.or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - • *5
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - 1
For five Hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, * 1
For more than two thousand dbllars, - - 3
Any note or hill of ladifl® fijrgoodg or merchandize to*be exported,
If fram one diflri& to another diflriiTof tire u uhU States, jipt fating in the
fame State, - - * *
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - ls
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or efTefts, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or i axes, arid goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
An} Certificate of a Share in any Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the' United States, 6r of any State or other Bank, - -
IT above twenty dollars and sot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
, If above one hundred dollars, - - - 35
If unde* twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars. |
ii.
The dutiesaforelaid will he wileiled and received by the Supervisors, Infrc<aor« «ud •ther
of Infpcition, is the several DiltriAs, Surveye and Divisions of the United States, and by such other '
persons a* shall frum to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diflrias for
that purpose. ~ ii—
-111. '
The Supervifurs of the several Dittrrfls -w.u, T r; or t0 t j. e firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be pra&icable, mark or llamp, without fee orrew-»^j > any quantities or parcelsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before
flamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens or cl States, -he ob
tained at the rates preferred by law, by application to any SupervUor, Infpefior, Officer oT Wpectien,
or other psikm appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflri<9s.
or oiner yaisj GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the Jay and year abovementnncd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT, \ ..
March 10. Secretary f>J the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile lire, to undertake the pub
lishing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every a [lillance in.thcir
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BY SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advert'ifer.
To be pobhfhcd every Wednesday and Saturday
morning, on the folio-wing conditions.
It will be printed on ftur pages quarto. It will
.contain the Prices Current (wholelale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces C»r ren ' at Boston, New-York, Charleston,
and other parts of theUniteifStatcs, with thtf Pri
ces Current at Londen, the Weft Indies and clfc
where as often as they can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The rates of itfuranee—the price
of ftocbs—courfe of exchange, &c. &c. Likewiff
a regular account of entries, inward and ontward
with such marine and other intelligence as (ball
be thought ufeful and important —and the remain
der of the paper will be appropriated to advertife
menta.
The price to fnbfcrifiers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
ses, will be FoUr Dollars per a»num —Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub
icribers at a greater distance will have it sent them
agreeable to their direiftion9 —to pay t». o dollars at
the time of fubfcribiiife, and the remainder at the
epdof the year.
The publication (hall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
It i» from the advicrf and to gratify the wiih
ef a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
printer proposes publilhing this Price Current in a
quarto lizc in preference to any other. And it is
proposed to embrace the Prices Current with fitch
other matter as may be most material tofend abroad
in the firft two pages —appropriating the other two
to such matters as rsay be m«re immediately do
ineftic, and to.adver^ffements.
Stibfcriptions are received by said Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-street,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at hisoffice in Chefnut
ftreet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built fecord hand Light
Watrgon, hung on Jacks with ghff.s and
blind 5 ih the doors, with or without harness
Enquire of Pc er Umerickhoufe, Arch, below
Sixth ltreet, or the fubferiber in Germar.tewn.
CASPAR W. HAINES'
9 p t U J '»KJW
Frefli Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting Houie, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hi» Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hy son, Young
Hyson, Hyron Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, afl*rted; black and coloured I.ute
flrings and Sattins, Nankeens, Caflia, largo garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone sticks.
Tbey have also Ftr Sale,
Ell Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxit.
march 8. §
Now Opening,
At Willi aw M'Laws Saddle Manufactory,
No. 12, Chef nut Street,
A general alTortment of Horseman's
Pistols, direA from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO pN HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords; Cartou, h Boxes, Va
liceg, Saddle Bags, Portmdbteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage ancf Chair HarneCs, &c.
April 9 dtf
City Commiflioner's Office,
'January \itb, 1798..
'■*£>* >THI INFORMATION' OF THE CITIZEVS.
""1 4, HE following arrangement is made by the
X said comnufiioners, for cleaning the
streets, &c.
Diftridt No. 1. —From the north fideof Vine
ftreet,To thefouthlide ot Mulberry street; to
ho under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
a From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of CSefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joleph Claypoo'e.
4. From the north fideof Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
S? When pumps are out of order south of
Hijjh-flrcet, plcafe apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-ftreets, or Godfrey Geb-
Iler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ; and north of
High flre-t, to Dixey and Dehaven, in SafTafras
ftrcct, between Sixth and Savccth-ftrccts.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, j
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an aft of Congrcfs pafftd on the r
19th day of March, >798, the following
alterations and amendments have been raideto t
the ail paflcd on the 6th day of July * 797» en " a
titled "An aft laying duties on stamped vcl- \
" lum, parchment and paper."
The flamp duties on debentures or oertifi- '
catei for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Sup?rvifors
or 111 (prior 3 refpe«slively, to any persons other
than Officers of (he Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to he stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties (lull amount to len Dol
lars or upwards. I
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold it
the rates prefcribedby law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each lkin ot Pirch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for eash lkin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furni(V>-
ed at tht expense of the United States aa<l pro
portionally for any lefler quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and yetr above mentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of thtTreafury.
Treaftiry Department,
March 19, 1798-
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
wilFbe received at the Office of 1
JL the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the day of July next ensuing, for :
the supply of all rations which may be required
for the use of the United States, fromthe firft day of
Odober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the diltridt hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwcgo;
at Niagara ; at Prefque lfle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ; at Pittlburgh ; at LcjUieUf » at
Cincinnati j preenville jax Picque 'fowu and
Loramie't Store; at Fort Wayne;'at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ;at Fort Knox'aud Otya- ]
tanon on the River Wabaft; at Maffac; at any
place or places on theeaft fide of the River Missis
sippi above the mouth of the P.iver Ohio, and up- 1
on the Illinois River ; at any place or places on the
east the MifliTTippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
State 6f Kentucky, and within the said Stat» ; at
KnoxviUe, .Tellico Block House, and at all pthcr
Posts in the State of TennefTec; at anyplace or
places on the east fide of the River Mifliflippi, be
low the southern bsundary of the State of i'ennef
fee, to thefoutherii boundary of the United States-
If supplies {hail be required for any posts or
places not mentioned in tiiis notice,all fuchfupplies
(hall be furnilhed at prices proportioned to thole to
the posts before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States andtha tontra^for.
The rations tobe supplied to consist of
lowing articles, viz.
One pound o f bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces .of pork
or bacor.
Half a jill ofnjm, brandy or whif-*}
ky, one qiart of Salt, two quarts f hu^dl . g(l
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, ( rations
on« pound of candies J 1
The rations are to be furnilhed in such quantities, «
as that there iball at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the consumption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at eich
of the other posts, for the term of at least three
months i« advance, in good and w'nolefome provi
sions, if the fame shall be required. It is tobe un
derstood, that the contractor is to be at the ex
pence and rifle of illume the fupplites to troops
at each post, and that all losses sustained by the de
of an enemy, or by means of the
troops United States, ftvallbe paid for at
the price of the or destroyed, on
theoepofitions of tWo
1 ble character?, and the certificate or Commission
ed officer, ascertaining the
■ loss and the amount of the articles fer wftieh coriT
. penfation shall be clainied.
% The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which irifcy
be furniftied under thepropofed coßtra&> Siall be
issued, uati\ the supplies which have or may be
furnilhed undci the contract now in force have
Ixen consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
the Treajury.
march 37.
> Bafkenridge-—for l'&le
TT tonfifts of 910 acres, jlmoft all of which it
X a fin« rich Meadow, (the re'fidenceof the late
' E*rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently divided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
There are on it a number of buildings, forming
r afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
' is a v»ry convenient one andja small expence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conClis of 1500 finsbearing engraf
-1 ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts ot said
. trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as alf6 a great
' variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and mod delicious kinds.
, Also, a great number of beautiful Erotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and It from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
, To favc troublf, the price is five pound pr. acre
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
S " No. 78, Chefnut street.
February 2. eodtf
it Ran away from the fubferiber
- on the 14th inft. two indented Irish Servant Men'
r Thomas M'Guire, about 25 years of age, and 5
feet 8 inches high, robsft, stout, and well made,
(hort black hair, remarkabU for a fear on one of
_ his temples; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
service Jeffry Corbet, about the fame age and
height, but of a milder disposition. ard moreflen
e der make, Ihctt brbVn hair ; their working appa
e relwas blue flo£fi over jicketi, lined with coarse
brown linen, check and brown Knen Ihirts, grey
yarn dockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers,
e and ruffett leather (hoes; they have other doathing
0 which altogether give* them the appearance of sea
s' faring meD, but have been brought up to the farm
-0 ing buGnefs ; no doubt will haveforged pa.Tes and
ie change their names and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the poll road to Philapelphia, I pur
-0 chafed ihem the lad fall of capt. Rellins, in Balti
le more. I will give Fifty Dollars for fecuringthem
so that I get them, and will pay all reasonable
ie charges if brought home, or if separated, Thirty
1- Cellars for Thomas, and Twenty for Jeffry.
ARTHUR 3RYAN,
'f Head of Wye, Talbot County—match 7.
lc March 14. jawjw
'f Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
s- A few cherts of excellent quality, for sale, cor
ner of Second and Pine streets. Dec 26—cetf 4
New Tea Warehouse. ,
No. 39, South Front Street,
op posit k posT-orrics. \
THE Sabfcriber refp«afully acquairtsherfricßds ]
apd the public, that lhe has opened a Store for .
thefalcof all kinds of tea:, imported m chelate .
arriva'.s at Boston and Philadelphia, (as under) ana j
which Gie is determined to Ml ofc reasonable terms.
It will be hcrconftant endeavour to e ivefuisla£hon
to those who please to favor her with their custom. .
Country Hen s will fiad it their advantage to deal
wi h her, as lhe can at a moment'® notice aiTort
them any quantity wanted, and will allow a reason
able credit on ajpproved notes.
Imperial, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, and Bohea —Also, Coffee and Loaf
Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
April *2 s&th.6w
~~ landing, ;
Frcm on board the (hip-Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,, '
And FOR SALE by the Sobsc«iber,
400,000 wt. Java COFI'EE
300 canisters SUGAR, of a superior quality
also,
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April 17.
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR Sill,
At No. 5, Dock-flreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining letts, tea and coffee
enps and fauccrs
Nankeens, black fattins andtaflities
Pungem cloths, choppab romalls, and bandannoes
China and Englilb umbrellas,
Together with a general ajfortment of European \
Goods— among djhich are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd.. lod. 12d and 2od. nails
Shot—T. Crowley (leel, Spanilh brown and white
lead
Englilk fcythes42to 50 inches . (
ALSO,
112 barrellsof kiln- dryed Indian corn meal. ,
A commodious Store in Dock-street,
No. 7, to be let, three florfts high, fuitablefor
any bufinels.
4th mo. jth .
For Sale,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER, NO- 10, CHESNV* 1 STREET,
11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on reasonable terms on a (Uort
credit.
Robert Hetuierfon.
April 2 mwscs4w
. JUST
FROM FO R T-A U-P KIN CE,
And FOR SALE, by the SI7MSCZIC£KS,
11 o hhds. Coffee •
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
ICO bags do
no hogsheads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogfoeacU of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
2 hogfceads of .Cocoa
WILLINGS FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march l»."
term of Co-partner(hip between the (u'h-
L fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, aud by jnytlial
, consent will not be renewed* The debts and con
, cernsof the fame will be fettlid by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the pwtnerfhip,
, are earnestly requested to make payßient to, with
-1 out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Tim.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 §tf
" s LANDING,
e From on board the Ship Sally, from
t Calcutta,
CI AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
' John Miller, Jun.
;s msrch §
)C Alex, J• Miller ,
)e Having entered into partuerfliip undef rH- Q f
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM theif friends in town and country, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front S<reet, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend keeeping a gener,<J af
fojtment of India, German, Jrijb, French' and Brr
tiji MannfaiSutesfot sale, on advantageous tertr.f
for ca(h ora(hort credit.
February 19 §tf
TO BE LET}
Andpoffetjjton given immediately,
'g Agenteel three story brick House,
N 1, 7, North Eighth flreet,
24 feet front and 55 feet with a handfomc
Garden. Enquire at £Io. \i% Spruce street.
' j *p ri i 4 §
he Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th mo. Ith, 1798.
T~*HE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hofpi
>>" i- tal, arc to meet on the levepth day of next
es Month, being the second d»yof the week, the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
-It e le<sl twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
ensuing year.
:re Bx order of a Itcard of Managers.
n - SAMUEL COATES, Sec'ry.
et< april 7 ' ' dtE
Valuable Property for Sale.
r FOR SALE,
n' 'T'HAT well known Ettate, called SHREWS-
I S B UR- Y FARM, formerly the residence of
Je, General John Cadwalader, situate on SalTafras Ri
of ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a-
US) bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of ;oo
ny of which are in woods. Ths BuildiHgs are alf ex
ad cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
:n- two large Barns with Cow hou r es, Stables for fifty
>a- horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
rfe granary, two Overfecr's houses, two ran
ey ges of two (lory for Negroes (one of
rs , them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
B g house , icc. &c—The whole Estate being nearly
•a- furroundsd by water, it requires but little fencing,
m - and has a good Shad and Herring filheiy. It Is
nd conveniently fit dated for both the Philadelphia and
nd Saltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
lr- gable river but a (hort fail from Baltimore. There
ti- is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
sm the ptemifrs; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
ile different kinds, she foil is mostly a rich loom.
rty The whole will b« fold together, or divided into
fn aller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently fituatcd) as may suit the purchaser. The
j. Stock on said l 7 arm, conCfting qf Horses, Cr.ttle,
Sheep, &c. will also bedifpofedof. -ror further
particulars ippfy to Gtoaot Hastings, on the
a. premiles, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
>r- ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
tf 4 February 24. aiw 6w
LOST,
THIS morning inor near theraarket.aLacy'g
Red Morocco Pocket Book with a Silver
Clasp, about half worn,in which were two Ten
Dollar Bank Note 9 and sundry papers, ufeWfc to
any but the owner. If the perfpn who foond
it will leave it and the contents with the printer
hereof, thjey will be rewarded with one of the
notes.
April 18 . *3t
FOR SALE,
bv the subscribes, No. si, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Confining \f
Baftas, of various qualities and prices 4
Coffaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzeydo.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Hlue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharjgonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Malmuldo.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romaic
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perfuns of various coh
'Meek Pulicats
ioo tons SUGAR
98,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious flore the Berth weft corner of
Market and Fourth-llreets.
Alfo —A few Bales of Madrr-fs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Frank.l in, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SA LB BY THI SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in calks
White wine in half calks
sweet oil of a Superior quality in boxes,and balket*
Lunelle
Sauterne ( in CaTes.
Macarty, and (
Medoc J
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. J i, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes Intitled
MldoTand Sau'erne} Wineß easeS ' 5 drawback
Sherry wine in pipesand quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 bulhels I iverpoolSalt.
tparch 19 mw&ftf
Red Clover Seed of the best quality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window G-lafs—all of which will be fold
on very reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
march I Wltf No. 11, Dock Street.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of Willam Fleetwood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attefled ; and who are indebted
to the famej^arc - deflTed to mait« immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, \ ,
No. 25, So. Third-street. \ AAm,m J ir r
January 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Messrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Okmrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caulcs and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
7.0 tvhich it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&ice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa As and reflexions relative to
the Synodal IHtraidis, or Yellow Fever, which
lias occafuuied so much diflrcfs and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the feiport
towns of the United States of America.
BY WILLIAM CURRIE,
TcUw of the Philadelphia College of PhyCciani,
and MtiwVjer ofvthe American Philo.opliic.il So
ciety. Feb. I—
JUST RECEIVED.
And for faleby W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-street
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-street and the
Boekft-llers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Potm, hlftoric and deforiptive t
By a Lady of Bojlon.
analysis OF book 1.
Allusion to the furrouiiding I'rofpeit—lnvocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Hifloric
Mufe—FivSion discarded—Dedication to Wafli
ington—The A&ion opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfanificatinn of Fcrtune and Fame—
Walhington at Mount Veraon—called to the
chief Command —Formation of ths Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical Hiflory of the several States—Their conv
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation; for the fafe Retreat of the.
Britilh Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
racter of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic ApoCrophe to the Frogrefs of Free
dom throughout the World,
march 30. §
FOR SALE,
ALL that elegant three story Brick House, hrick
Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on the
south weft corner of Fourth and Prune streets*,
containing in front on Fourth llreet 3.3 feet, and
in length on Prune flrcet 98 tect, to a four feet al
ley intended to be left open with common privi
lege of the fame.
Also, a two story brick House and Lot of Ground
Gtuate on the weft fide Fourth street and ad
joining the above, containing in breadth on Fourth
street 15 feet 6 inches, and in depth 98 fact on the
said four feet alley, with the common privileges of
s the fame.
1 And also, all that Lot of Ground lituate on ths
weft fide of Fourth ftreet'and adjoining the last
: described lot, containing in breadth on Fourth
' street 25 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north
f fide io? feet, thence running fouthwird 11 feet 6
- inches, thence further wefhvard ix feet, thence
> flill further southward 14 feet, and thence by the
- Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth street, with the
: common use of the said four feet alley leading is
to Prune street The whole will be fold together
r if more agreeable ta the purchaser.
e For terms, enquire of the fufclcribcr, at his of-
Ccc, No. 114 South Fourth street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
December ;o. £