#afctte td t\)t States, and Philadelphia Dally Advertiser:
Number 1750. J
For Charleston,
W. B. Vaughan, mailer ;
A Fin.'rtaunch, fill (ailing vessel, with good
Jl\ accommodations for pass cgers ; to fail in 6
4»r». For Freight or PafTige, apply to the Cap
tain on board, at Morri.'j wharf, j»ft above the
Drawbridge, or to
Peter Kuhn.
>pril 18.
For Boston,
THE TAST BAILING BRIO
John Prince, majler,
"Wifl laiioiiTuefday next. For Freight apply
tke matter on board, at Chefout llreet wharf.
April 18. *Jt '
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nail« aflbrted
10 bales «f fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
53 casts yell"w ochre
1 j tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
London particular ) Mi(ieira wines
India market )
TenerifTedo. in hogiheads and pipe«
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 calex of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinetj occ,
assorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, iuk Hands and presses
ao purcbeons Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twine
160 bundles (heathing paper
THK BR,G
AMAZON,
I"For Sale, or Charter.
Nick/in (5" Griffith,
april 7 tuth&f.tf
Freight Wanted.
O
FOR BREMEN,
The Hamburgh Brig
HENRIETTA,
Peter P. Sehmidt, Majler y
NO - lying at Jeffe and R. Wain's wharf— A
flout, firong vessel. of about 270 tons bur
then, in good order ; has two thirds of her cargo ;
ready to go on board, and begins to load to-morrow,
for Frvght only, apply to
PRATT & KINTZING,
No. 95, North Watei-ftreet.
Wb* bane JUST RECEIVED, and Fo* SALE,
29 bales Tickleburgs and Oznabrigs
1 do. Patterbornes
I do. bleached Heflians
I package Oil Cloth
I iheft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxet
30 Liquor Cases
•a 9 anchors pearl Baryic, and
4 cases elegant Carriage Harnels, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
THEY HAVE FOE SAf.K
Claret in cases. Port Wine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in fmallboxes, Rice, Briuftore, Tumblers, Win
dow G'af», Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, Hefiians, Brown Rolls, Polish Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback,
march to. tuthsiw
FOR SALE. ~
I?; l rZ»:}Hayannah Sugar
900 Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Adive, Will
iam Williams, matter.
faid Brigfor sale,
And may take in immedi
afely after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
march 30. $
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
J 0 * 1 " Flenping, Majler,
Having great partot her cargo en"
gag«d.—For freight apply to
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
February S
for Sale or Charter,
L GOOD HOPE
yWill carry about 1100 barrels, and
is ready totake in a cargo. Forterms
apply to
Praters & Co.
No. 151, South Sccond-flreet.
Who hav: for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and T.neriffe win..
November 7. 4tf
To it Let,
(And poITt fTon given on the Ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,'
12 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and ftibles.at present in the tenure of Major J *, ck
lON, Enquire at 187 South Third street.
annTx.
El'capes.
BROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, in
New-J*rfey, and made their escape, berwetn
1 and a o'clock, this morning, two Men, who
wercc.nvi&cdof ttealing—one of them calls liirti
ielf James I.egg, tlie other Edward Hambleton*—
i.»gg is a grey.headed Man. about 50ye3fs ol i, 5
fejt 8 inches high, thick set, with a rumarkablc
large bead; Hambkton is abou* »6 years old, 5
f«et, 9 or 10 inches high, black hair. Left the
prison in company with the abrve described
thieve*, a fraall man, who calls himfetf Matthew
Morrifon, about 24 v«ars old, 5 leet 6 inches high,
light Fvur, completion, smiles when talking, is
a vheoj-wright by trade —!— Whoever will secure
the t&ie*«in any Ciaol in New-I«r<iy or Pen/jfyl
vania, lhall b« entitled to receive Ten Dollai. for
the old one. Fifteen for the one, and twen
ty for Matthew Morrifon
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
qridjrtown, tyarph t.;. 1A —nitAl.<w
Wanted,
An active, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
a/id do the business of the kitchen. Sufh a one
will he allowed good way;es, and no other need ap
ply—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 IS
PHILADELPHIA:
Thomas y Joshua Fisher,
HAVI FOR SALI,
At No. 5, Dock-(lreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining Ictts, tea and coifec
caps and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pungem cloths, choppah roraalu, and bandannoes
China and Enirlifh umbrellas.
Together with a general ajjortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. iod. lid and lod. nail;
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spain 111 brown and white
lead »
Englilh scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
Hi barrcllsof kiln dryetl Indian corn meal.
A commodious Store inDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three dories high, suitable for
any business.
4th mo. sth §tf
Jufl Landing
From the brig Harmony from the Isle of France,
And for sale By
Joseph Anthony & Co.
20 bales Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
150 bags dp. coffee
04 calks do. Indigo
april dlot
just Received,
FROM FOR T-A D-f RIN CE,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCR/CERS,
110 hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
lio fyog(heads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.*
40 hogiheads of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
2 hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS fcf FRANCIS,
Penn-ftrect.
march 1%, § *
A Nitrfe Child Wanted.
ANY person who may want to put a child out,
may hear of a place, by enquiring of Conrad
Baker, near the town house, in the Northern Li
berties. . 3t april 12.
™ PORT WINE,
In pipes, hogflieads and quarter calks,
or a superior a lit y ,
Just imported, in tfie Heorietta, P. ?. Schmidt,
matter, from Oporto,
ALSO, on HAND,
300 bbls. New-York and Boston Beef
Queens' Ware in crates
Blankets in bales
Guns allotted in <;afe9, CutlalTes, Swords, &c.
For Sale by
THOMAS fa* JOHN KETLATfD.
Walnut street wharf,
april It. set
Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th mo. 7th, 1798.
rHE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hospi
tal, are to meet on the seventh day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at*the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afterboon, to
tied twelve .Managers and a Treasurer, for the
ensuing year.
By order of a hoard of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, See'ry.
April 7 dtE
SILVER WATCHES. "
Calh will be given for any quantity of low
priced SILVEIt WATCH! S, by applying im
mediately at No. 15 South Fifth fttcet, betyvsen
Market and Chtfuut Itreets-
April 10. * 6t
Now Opening,
At Willi a mM'Laws Saddle Mamifaftory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general aflbrtment of Horseman's
Pistols, direct from the Manufasurers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, (Jartou h Boxes, Va
lices, .Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
JUpT RECEIVED.
And ft>r sale by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey tiß High-street
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-street and the
Booksellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Pointy historic and deforiptive I
By a Lady of 80/lon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion to the surrounding ProfpeA—-Invocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Hiftcric
Mule—-Fi&run to Waft
ington—The A&ion open* at the Retreat of the
Columbian*from Bunker's Hill—QeneralHowe
-—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfonification of Fcrtune and Fame—
Wafliingron at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of th®Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the fcveral States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—Jts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
Hri(i/h Army—lt* Departure—Appointment of
Congress—-Declaration of Independence-—Cha
ra&cr of the Columbian Poet's
prophetic Ajxoftrophe to the Frogrtfs of Free
dom throughout the World.
march 30. $
Law book' Store,
No. Jl9, High-flreet.
George Davis,
IMPRESSED with the favors in his
efforts toeftablifh a Store for the sale of Law'
Bocks only, begs leave to inform the Gentleman
of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
that in addition to his col!e&ion now 0:1 hand,
which he fuppofea to be more extensive, than in
the po&ffion of any one J>erfon for sale in Ameri
ca, he expels daily very lars;e fuppliet from Lop
don & Dublin, particularly from the la'ttei place,
havingchiefly confinedhis importations to those edi
tion*, as being in his opinion equally correct with
the London copie*, and well known to be infinite
ly lower charged.
C. D. limiting hinafelf, folciy to the sale of Law
Books, it will appear obvious to profeffi on a I gen
tlemen the crest adranagfsthey havetn purchasing
from him, both as to feje&ion and price, of which
the encouragement !*.e has receivedfou- yews
pad, is the be it tettimeßy b£ cv tiger.
narchao. £ivrjw
By John Fen no, N°- 119 Chef nut Street.
JUST ARRIVED,
In the ftiipPhcenix, capt. Grice, from Am(lerdam,
2 box sSiamois I hhd. Bristles, iA
3 do. Haarlem Stripes quality
3 do. Checks, No. 2 2 do. do. li do.
9 do. Sealing Wax 3 40. Glue, and
Cream Cheese in prime 12 chcfts firft quality Red
order for exportation r Crust
ALSO,
Jufl; Received, via Baltimore, &c.
50 bales brown Ticklenburgs and hempen Linens
10 bales German Oznabrigs
30 bales brown Rolls and lieflins
25 bales Poli(h do. suitable for coffee and cotton
bags
20 bales empty Eags
1 bale bleached Heffans
I package Turkey Yarn
54 pieces Vladrafs Handkerchiefs
1 cheftTapes, No. 13, 15, &c.
1 package cotton Lindfeys
250 boxes Window Glafi, 7 by 9, 8 by 10, 9 by
11, 10 by iz, 14 by 16, 16 by 18, £cc.
20 chefls plain and flowered half pint, pint and
quart Tumblers
20 chests Looking Glasses, aflbrted
4 large elegant do.
30 travelling Liquor cases
1 chaft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A cargo of prime Mahogany
Several Anchors, from 4 to 12 cwt.
20 pipes old Pot
A few quarter calks Sherry / txrtxjpq
60 cases White
200 boxes Claret J
80 boxes Capers
700 small boxes Ruflia Soap
30 tierces Rice
50 calks Roll Brimstone
40 kegs yellow ftooe Ochre
15 kegs Pearl Baricy
2 hogiheads Madder
1 chest aflbrted Quills
6 bales Writing Paper
10 chests Siates and Pencils
20 trunks Mens' and Womens' Shoes
60 Silver Watches
1 hhd Coffee Mills
2 do fllhing and blocking Twine
2 chests Nuremberg Toys
A few Peiqijohns
A quan Ity of stone pickling Pots
4 boxes of Engbflt Chariot aad Chariot Harness,
with plated ornaments in complete fettsfor 2, 4,
or 6 horfes,alfo Whips, 9purs, &c.
The above Goods are generally entitlsd to draw
back, are suitable for the Eaft-lndia market, and
will be fold at reasonable.prices and at the usual
credit, by
PRATT & KINTZING,
Ne. 95, North Water street.
April 16. t&fnt
To be Sold by Auftion, at the Cof
fee-Houfe, at 6 o'clock, on the ift May
next,
A NOTE drawn by Michael Kraft, of the
Custom-House, payable te William Loye,
chair-maker, 150, Nbrth Front street, fur 250
dollars, dated the ,?-th June 1797, due the id of
Aug, but neglefled to be presented or protested
till the 18th August by the Bank of Pennsylva
nia, for which ihe Bink will bf«ouie liable, if a
jury independent of Banks can be fou»d.
'3- >6 l
TO THE PUBLIC.
IX evident, tfyat tbc purport of Mr. IV'tlUam
Priejlman t odvcrtifmg my Note for sale at the Mer
chants' Coffee house, on the frfl of May next, is done
merely for the purpofs of injuring my cbarafter, —it re
mains only for txe to convince the world, that my intentions
to discharge the fame, are truly honorable and jufl. A
bout ten days after ijfuing said note to M". Lome, he called
on me to know if 1 could dif count it : 1 nnfwred J -would
do it the Saturday following—He not calling on me, as I
expefted, 7 called at his bcufe for the purpose; when he
informed me that it was. in the possession of Mr. IVagner, j
in- StcondJlreet, on whom I called for the purpose of tajt- |
ingitup, previous to leaving the city during the fever, —
who told me he taeio nothing of the note ; I never learnt
where it was until my return ta the city, when a series oj ;
unparalleled misfortunes had tendered me incapable of
(jifeharging my jaff debts : I called on Mr Priejlman, as
well as my ofljer creditors, and offered to pay them by an
order ffr retaining a portion of try yearly salary, until
they "were paid, convincing them that this was my onfy
resource, and produced prottjled paper (-which V¥ts, wfrta
taken, deemed good) to thrice the amount of tny dehUf*-
whifh -was abandoned by Mr. Pritfman only, to tie un
feeling attack on my c bar after J>y pvbljjling my notefor sale.
Should any gentleman incline pvrebqfing my note, he \
vtayrejlpffaredof my bftnejl determination to fbf
■ thereof, by t}>e f t off as Iprepofe here ; and very pro
bably in a Jbsrt time, should I receive remitt inces which
are daily expefled from abroad, they will enable me (imply
to difebarge all the debt, due, by
MICHAEL KRAFFT.
April 17. *3 f . !
Interpreter of Foreign Languages.
JOSEPH E. O. M. DE LA ORANGE,
Walnut-street, No. 110,
BEING duly commiflioned and sworn in the a
bove capacity, offers to translate the French,
EngSifli, Spaiyfti, Portugucfeand Italian Langua
ges : he flatters himfelf that his former proleltion,
as advocate, both in France and St. Domingo, has
well qualified hi ji to tranfl.ite any Court proceed
ings or other Jud ciary instrument*.
N. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI
BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma
ny valuable additions having been made to this
collection, it consists now of about 1500 volume-,
the best adapted to answer the purpose of those
who wish both to improve in the Language, and
obtain ufeful inftru&ion and plcafore.
march 30. 2awim
FOR SALE, '
ALL that elegant three flory Brick House, brick
Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on the
south weft-corner of Fourth and Prune streets,
containing in front on Fourth ftrset 32 feet, and
in length on Prune ftre'«t 98 feet, to a four feet al
ley intended to be left open with common privi
lege of the fame.
AUp, a two story brick House and Lot of Ground
fltuate on she weft fide 6f Fourth street and ad
joining the above, containing in breadth on Fourth
street 15 feet 6 inches, and in depth 98 faet on the
said four feet all«y, with the common privileges of
the fame.
And also, all that Lot of Ground (ituate «n the
weft fide of Fourth flreet and adjoining the last
described lot, containing in breadth on Fourth
street 25 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north
fide 102 feet, thence running southward 11 feet 6
inches, thence farther westward 12 feet, thence
still further southward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth street, with the
common ufeof the said four feet alley leading in
to Prune street The whole will be fold together
if more agreeable to the purcha&r.
For terms, euquire of the fubferiber, at ki« of- i
Gee, So. I*4 South Fourthftr^er
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
THURSDAY EVENING, APRIL 19, 1798.
%])t <sa*ette»
P.fi ILADE IPH IA ,
THURSDAY EVENING, April 19.
From the Commercial Advtrlijer.
THE STAN D—No. IV.
111 the pursuit of her plan of universal empire"
the (wo ohje£!« which jiow seem chiefly to occu"
py the attention Qf France, are a new organize
tion of Germany favoratjlc to her iijfi jence, and
the demolition of Great-Britain. The Jiibver-
Tion and plunder, firftof Portugal, and next of
Spain, will.be merely collateral incidents in the
great drama of iniquity.
In the new d'ft'ibution of the territories, po
ptUatinn and political power of the Germanic
body, which has heen announced as in contem
plation of the directory, charaifleia are
conlpicsous —a difoafition to build up rivals to
the Irrperial chief, llrong enough to fctl the
sentiment of competition, hut too weak to haz
ard it alone, who will therefore (land ip need
ofthe pitropage of France, and as a coufequence
will facilitate her influence in the affairs of the
Empire—a generofltv Ip making compepfwion,
at the expense of others, f r the l'poils jvith
which (he has aggrandized herfelf—a facility in
transferring communities, like herds of cattle,
from one matter to another, without th,e privi
lege of an option- In a projefl Jjke'this, it is
to overlook the plain indications of
a restless, overhearing ambition, combined with
a total disregard of the rights and wishes ps na
tions. The people are counted for nothihg,
their matters for every thing.
The condufl of France towards Great-Bri
tain is the aopy of that of Rome towards Car
thage- Its ipiß'feft '« destroy the prin
i cipal obftarle to a nomination »ver Europe.—
Hiflorv proves, that Great-Britain has repeatrd
ly upheld tha balance of power there, in opposi
tion tethegrafping ambitjon of France. She
has no doubt occasionally employed the pretence
of danger asthe instrument of her own ambi
tion ; but it is not the less true, that (he has been
more than once an eflential and an effectual
(hield lgainft real danger. This was remarka
bly the cafe in the reign of Louis the XlVth,
when the security of Europe was seriously
threatened by the fucoeliful eaterprizes of that
very ambitious monarch.
The rourfe of the last negociation between
France and Britain leaves no doubt, that the
former was resolved against peace on any pra<£li
caMe terms. This of itfelf indicates, that the
definition of the latter is the direfl objetfl in
view- But this objeil is not left to inference.
It has been faftidioufly proclaimed to the world ;
and the neceflity of crulhing the tyrant of the
sea has been trumpeted as a motive toother
powers to arquiefce in the execution of a plan,
by which France endeavours to become the ty
rant both of st.< and land. The underlhnd
ing of mankind has, at the fame time, been
mocked, with the proposition that the peace of
Europe would be feciired by the aggrandize
ment of France op the ruips of her rivals; be
cjiufc then, it is (aid, having nothing to fear, (he
would have no motive to atta;k ; as if modera
tion was to be ejcpe<fled from a government or
people having the power to irnpofe its own will
without controul 1 . The peace of Europe would
in such cafe lie the peace of vassalage.
Towards the execution of the plan of deflroy
ipg Great-Britain, the rights of other nations
are openly and d.-iringly invaded. The conhf
cation is decreel of all veffejs with their car
gpes, if compofeji in any pirt of articles p'Brit
i(h fabric ; and f.ll nations are to he compelled
to (hut their ports against the meditated vn3ira.
Hamburgh is ftateil to have already reluilantly
yjeldeo to this humiliating corppulfion.
While the Jfm iljtion of Great-Britain is ea
gerly purfsed »sa primary o.bjeifi, that of Por
tugal leems deGjned to form an episode in the
tragedy. Her fears had induced her to buy a
peace The mopey flje ha 1 paid was the imme
diate ipflri-. ">nt of the revolution of September
last—Yet ho sooner had the news of pacific.a
tipn with the Fmperor reached Paris, than pre
tences were fought to dude the raiificatly.i of
the purchased treaty. A larger tribute was de>
manded, re, probably, than ic was expe<3ed
Portßgil would he able to pay, to serve as an
ejeufc for marching }n army to revolutionize
and plunder.* The [>loa t may perhaps he fuf
pendrd by further fjer jf<ce», but it is not likely
to be fipally averted.
Spain, too, wasin a fair way of enjoying the
fruits of her weakness in putting on the yoke
of France, and of fprnifhing another proof of
the general scheme of aggrin lizement and op
pression. The demand of the celliou of L?ui
funa, long prefled upon her, had at length be
come categoric. Tl'f alternative was to com
ply or offend. The probability is that bef;>re
this time the ceflion has barn mule ; and Spain
has learnt, to her eoft, that the chief privilege
of an ally of France is to be plundered at discre
tion. With the acquisition of Louisiana, the
foundation will be laid for stripping her of
South America and her mines ; and peihaps
for dismembering the United States. The
magnitude of this mighty mifchief is not easily
calculated.
Such vast proje<Ss and prctenfians pnrfued hy
lich unexampled means are foil evidence of a
plan to acquire an absolute ascendant among na
tions. The difficulties in the final execution of
a plan of this kind are, with many, decifiverea
fons against its existence. But in the cafe of
aucicnt Rome, did it not in faifl exist, and was
it not substantially realized i Do»« the experi
ence of-the present day warrant the opinion
that men ai*e not as capable of mad and wicked
prajefls as they were, at any former period ?
Does not the c indu ft of the French govern
ment display a vaftnefs and I'ublimation of views,
an enormity of ambition, and a destitution of
principle, which repder the supposition of such
a design probable ? Has not a more rapid pro
gress been made towards its execution,- than was
ever made by Rome in an equal period ? In their
intercourse with foreign nations, do net the di
reAory affe<9 an ostentatious imitation of Ro
mari pride and fuperioriiy ? Is it not natural to
ronclude that the fame spirit points to the fame
ends ?
The projeft is poflthle. The evidence of
its existence is strong, and it will be the wis
dom of eve-y other state to adt upon tlie
supposition of its reality.
L,Ct it be underltooJ, that the supposition
* S:tcb it the account of this tranfuflion re
ctii'ta tii> »ngb authentic channth■
does not imply intention to reduce all
other nations formally tp the condition of
provinces. This was hot done by Rome in
the zenith of her grcatnefs. She had her
provinces and she had her allies. But hef
allies were in faifl her vaflals. They obey,
ed her nod. Their Princes were deposed
and cieated at pleasure.
Such is the proud pre-eminence to which
the ambition of France afpircs ! After se
curing as much territory as (lie thinks it ex
pedient immediately to govern, after vvreft.
ing from Great-Britain and attaching to
herfelf the command of the sea, after def
ining Spain of the riches of' Mexico and
Peru, after attaining by all these means to
a degree of strength fufficient to defy and
awe competition, she may be content, un
c}er the modest denomination of allies, to
rule the reft of the world by her frown or
her smile.
The charifter of theaiSual Direftory of
France juftifies the imputation to them of
any projedt the mod extravaga t arid crimi
nal. Viewed internally as well as external
ly, their cqndudi is alike deteftabie. They
overturned the conllitution, which
they were appointed to ad "inifter with cir
cumstances of barefaced guil[ that disgrace
a revolution, before so tarnished as seemed
scarcely to admit of greater degradation j
and have eredted in its Head a military des
potism, cloathed, but not difgnifed with
the uure garb of the constitution which
they have abolilhed. In the accomplifti.
mem of this usurpation, they have afTaffi.
nated one of their colleagues,* and seized
and banished another, togeth r with all those
members of the two councils, who were dis
posed and able to combat their pernicious
aims. They have done more ; not content
with rendering themlelves matters of the
two councils, and converting them into the
mere pageants of national repreientation,
they have thought it proper to fccure their
own power by exiling or impritoning Ijich
private citizens as they feared might" pro
mote tha future eleftion of men hostile to
their views, on the futile pretence of a
counter-revolutionary plot to be .effected by
rcyalizing the elections. Thus have they
not only monopolized all the power for the
present, but they have made provisions for
its perpetuation ; so long at least as the
praetorian bands will permit.
No impartial man can doubt that the Plot
charged upon the exiled members is a forge
ry. The chara&ers of several of the accused
bely it. Barthe'emy and Pichegru are virtu
ous men. The former has long merited arid
possessed this chara&er. The latter has gi.
yen numerous proofs of a good title to it
his only fault seems to have beeu that of
enthusiasm in the worst of cgufes. Neither
of them, like Dumourier, had been from
his entrance on Public life marked out ag
the votary of an irregular ambit ; on. The
alledged objeft of the plot, as to such men,
from the circnmftances of the conjun&ure'
was wholly improbable ; nothing like fatia'.
fa&ory proof has come to light. But the de
cisive argument of their innocence is, that
the usurpers did not dare to confront' them
with a fair legal accusation and trial. It was
so clearly their interest and policy to have
jtiftified themselves by eftablifhiug the guilt
of the accused, if in their power, tint"the
omiflion to attempt it is the demonflration
of its impossibility. Having all authority in
their own hands, and the army at their de
votion, they had nothing to fear frrm the
pursuit ; and they mult have forefeen that
the bailment, without trial, would finally
mprfhal public opinion against them. There
can be little doubt that the people of France
at this moment regard, with compassion and
regret, the banished Diredtors and Depu
ties, a"d with horror and d-teftation th • au
thors of their difgr.ee. But Ihe people' of-
France internally are annihilated—To their
liberty and happiness this last usurpation
gavea more fatal blow than any or all of the
former. It has more of fyltem in it ; and
being !efs sanguinary ig less likely to pro'voke
refillance from despair.
The inference from the tranfadHon ! s er ;,
dent. The real crime of the banished was
the desire of arreftin'g the mad career of the
directory and of restoring peace to France,
in the hope that peace might tend to fettle
the government on the foundations of order
fecunty and tranquility. The majority of
the d.redto.y forefW that peace would *ot
prove an element congenial with the durati
on of their power, or perhaps under the
gu,dance of Sieve,, the con uror of the
scene, they judged it expedient to continue
in motion tne revolutionary wheel, till mat
ters were better prepared for creating a new
dynasty and a new aristocracy,!to re.
generate the exploded monarchy of 4 France
with due regard to their own interefF.
, r?r& FC T' th3t 1 lle interior con
duit of the Directory has the fame ciarac
ters with their exterior-,he fame irr?g, U ar
ambition, the fame contempt of principle,
the fame bolanefa of delJgn, the f„ne te
merity «f execution. From such men, what
.a not to be expefted ? The developement
of their recent conduct towards the United
States will no doubt confirm all the inferen
ces to be drawn from other parts 0 f th
portrait ; and will contribute' to prove
that there is nothing too abandonei
*c C "?L~" 7" ; tpor,ed " 'hf lime, and it ii
confirmed by nothing h«,ng | lc en f lnfe nfa d '»
He had heen too deeply lhe |, orn(l , ' 9 hl ™'
vl ° P ,r, ?'« 11 ■-tccfn.ry iilmcc him"
[Volume XIII.r.r too morvftrou* for them to meditate or at- '
tempt.
Who that loves his country o: refpedU
the dignity of his nature, would ijot rather ]
perilh than fubferibe to the prollration ot
both before such men and such a fyllem ? (
JVhat tacrifice, what ganger is too great to
be incurred in oppolition to both ? What
fecutity in any compromise with fueh un- ,
principled men ? Whatfafetybutinunion,in
vigor, in preparation for every extremity, (
in a decilive ai d courageous ltand for the 1
rights and honour of our injured and mfult- '
cd country ?
TITUS MANLIUS. ,
ALBANY, April 10.
On Friday last, previous to the adjournmen
of the afTembly, the Hon Dirck Ten Braeck,
ECq. the Speaker, ruse in his place, and address
ed the members at follows :
GtNTLEM t N,
The attentions you have (hewn me as indivi
dmls, and as a House colleffively, dcrr ai.d my
mod fir ere and cordial thanks ; my f-nf.bihty
is particularly awakened on this occafion —we
are -now about to part : rcfleif ing on the ardu-d
ohk taik your elciflion afiigned to me, when you
did me the honor to place r.ie in the chair, I
cannot bin feel a concern as to the discharge of
the important duties confrqitent thereon : I
have ever endeavc tcrp •rform the promise I
made you when you firft called me to this lion- ,
curable fituiri»n: Iflhave erred, ir has pro
ceeded from the head, not from the heart; im
partiality was the path I afiigred to Hnyfelr,
promptness in decision I concluded on, and the
promotion of *'ie public good has been my con
flant aim. I npielfed wrfl the idea that deco
rum and drift order tended in an eminent de
gree to preserve the dignity of the representa
tives of * free people, and to facilitate the pro
grefiion of the byfinefs of the house, I have u
niformly endeavoured to effeil this desirable
end. Jf in th s I have been mistaken, if my
zeal has carried me too far, or either of you
ftiould have taken it amifa, at this moment of
parting, I reiy »n your goodness to exchange
with me the gage of reconciliation, and renew
al of friendfhip : we meet as friends, let us part
as brothers. Citizens, constituting an impor
tant part of the union, representing a happy
people, let us seriously refl:£t on our Otuaiion :
in vain it is for the mcft enlightened legifiature
to enait the molt falutsry laws, if those laws
when mai'.e, pass Unheeded, or unobserved. Let
it be our conftint aim, at all times, to inculcate
in our feveraf and refpeOlive lituations the im
portance ct religion f virtue, r.ara'ity, confidence
in t 1 i ,jV:tuted authorities, and rhe-oecefiity of
union rid one mind; but more especially at tliis
critical junfture of cur affairs; by fr.eh means
we (hall enfu:e obedience and refpefl to the
laws. ?n4.promote the peace, gsod order, and
the happineft of the community —Example is a
powerful mean to esseS ; and combined with it
earnrjinefs, a fureUKthod of success to so desira
ble an objeiH.
My heft wilhes accomp my ysn: may you be
prolpered on yo> r way ; may you have the
pleal'ure to meet your families and friends with
joy and l'atisfaiftion, and receive from yourcon
ftuuenrs t ejuit tribute due for the labors you
have If lowed in tht;fervice of your country ;
may a kind and gracicus Providence ever be to
each of-you a guide and friend, and extend to
ycu his cbu'rcelt bleflinjs ; and mjy you and I
long witn'fs the continuance of the happiness,
peace, importance and pr.ifpetity of bur highly
favored state and country.
What more fnall I add—«l only beg leave to
fubioin, tnofi affMianately, gentlemen—FAßE
WELL.
To wlkich address, Doflor Mitt hell, rising in
behalf of the ifl'-mbly made the following reply:
It gives this house pleasure, Sir, to hear the
words of good will aud friendfnip which you
have pronounced. Though the -ftrite of de
bate, and the zeal of party, may have sometimes
Airred up the fiercer passions, and set the mem
bers in firoi.oppofition to each other, yet these
violent emotions were but momentary j and at
this icJiant, when on the adjournment of th<*le
gifiature, the meml>ers aie about to separate,
they will unite in expreiTing social and benevo
lent sentiments towards each other, and parti
cularly towards you.
J hey conceive it fuperfbious to dwell on the
impartiality of yoty decisions, your discretion in
the appointment of committees, the ability you
have manifeil-d in the dispatch of bufinefs,and
the dignity with which you have filled the chair.
The decorum which has prevailed in the house
during this long and irnportaut feflioq, the mag
nitude of the ftibjefls which have undergone
discussion, the intending natt re of many of the
atfs which have eriginated. here, and thedif
pofiti m of both parties to unite cordially on
great and general questions for the good of their
con'.fitutrits, not only indicate the temper and
inouflry of the ajfembly, but also form the bed
eulogium of its Speaker.
't he mtml.en of this branch of the Legifia
ture hope, that at this eventful junijlure, no com
motion at home, nq intriguing abroad, may in
terrupt the peace which this state and nation en
joys. Happy in their remoteness from the eif
teril world, they trust European connexions of
a pdlifica! kind, will be formed with tardiness
and distrust, and both private virtue and public
happiness will be fought for at home. While
war agitates the governments cn the other fide
of the Atlantic, they feel a confidence, ihat no
unmanly referymenr, bo romantic notion of
honour, no blind attachment to this or that, con
tending powrr will induce the American people
tofwerve from the.r upright neutrality, and
thereby provoke the holtility of any of the belli
gerent nations.
May your good genius never forfake you I
Bur when the little squabbles of politics are palt,
may you in your retirement, enjoy the delights
of a clear conscience and of an approving God !
And cn taking a retrofpcA of the present feflion,
may you find the part you have borne in it, as
conducive to your felicity, as it his to your
reputation.
advertisement!
LODGED in the the United States to
be funded, and !or sale, between twenty and thirty
thoufanri dhlla's in Public Securities, cndoifed by the
United Slates, with the promise to pay theinterell an
nually at \ tf cent, per annum.
owners wao:ing money, will difpefe of the
whole sum at twenty-live per cent, discount. So large
a discount will make it an objeft wick monied men
who confide in public credit, or relv upon the mod
persist engagement ever entered into by Centre's.
Enquire at the OfEcc of THOMAS M'EUEN and
Co.'Chcfnut Stieef.
aptil 18
landing,
Ftem onboard the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
irom Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Sub;c«ibi»,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEF.
300 oniden SUGAR, cf a fupericr quality
ALSO,
A quantity cf HAP AN WOOD
JOHN MILDER, jus.
April 17. §
CON G R ESS. J
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. }
Thursday, April 12.
THE bill supplementary to the aft provid- ,
ing for the further defence of the ports. .
and harbours of the United. States, was read
the third time and puffed.
Mr. D. Poster, from the committee of
claims, made a report 011 the petition of Sa
muel Jones, whose cafe was liated to reft on
the fame ground with that of Ayar Bayley,
and the report was referred to the fame com
mittee of the whole to which that was refer
red.
The bill for the relief of sick and disabled
seamen, after considerable oppolition from
MeflTrs. Sewall, Otis and Read, was paired ;
59 votes being in its favour.
Mr. S. SMitH moved to go into a commit
tee of the whole 011 the State of the Union, in
order to take up the resolutions for providing
additional companiesof artillery and engi
neers, and cannon, arms and ammunition.
TJie House resolved itielf into a committee
of»the whole on the State of the Union ac
cordingly, Mr. Dest in the chair ; when
the resolution providing for companies .
of artillery and engineers having been read,
Mr. Sew am. said, the committee had
thought that eight or nine additional compa
nies might be fufficient ; but he believed that
it would be neceffary'to have more than one
' lieutenant-colonel, as an aftual attack, might
be made in one part, and another might be
expected in a different quarter, or a field offi
cer might be wanted to command a militia
.party. Besides eight or nine companies will
not afford a fufficient number of men, as the
prefenfcfortifications will need more than 400
additional men, and it,was proposed by the
tipproprialion of yeflerday that more Ihould
be erefled. The Secretary of War was of
opinion that a whole rrgiment in addition is
necessary, and he was of the fame opinion.
He therefore moved to flrike out the ward
" companies" for the purpose of inserting a
regiment.
Mr. Nicholas wilhed to know whether
, the committee had any information with re
fpe£t to the present regiment, as to where the
men were stationed, and whether the regiment
is complete.
Mr. Mac on didnof think it would be pro
per to add any more field-officers. The full
number of men might be raised without an
additional field officer. The men would be
placed in the different fortifications, where
there could be littfe occasion for field officers.
Mr. Sewall said, he would give the gen
tleman from Virginia the information he had
asked for, by reading a letter which he had re
ceived from the Secretaryof War. From this
leiteritappears that the whole numberof non
commifftoned officers and men at present is
952, but that there is a deficiency of about
250. The different place# at which the men
were stationed were enumerated.
Mr. Hartley was in favour of the amend
ment. He hoped we (hould not have war ;
but if we had, he bslieved additional field offi
cers would be necessary. To have a com
plete additional regiment, would encourage
young men to enter into it, who would not
go into an old corps. He belieyed if a new
regttnent was railed, it might be as refpeftahrle
a corps as any in existence ; but if the addi
tional companies were added to the old regi
ment, it would become unwieldly, and unlike
any other body in the \yorld. One half of
these men would be wanted in the field, and'
therefore two lieutenant-colonels would be
very necessary.
' Mr. Nicho las understood the chairman of
the committee to fay that eight compa
nies would be lufficient j so that if the pre
sent regiment was filled up, thejre would be
little more than one hundred mien wanting.
But it' seemed a number of the men were
wanted for the western frontier. He was cer
tain that when these men were firft raised, no
idea was then entertained of employing theai
on that frontier. He could f«f no use for
them there, except they were employed in
field of other men j and if so, it was an im
proper disposition of them. It was giving to
the Secretary of War the power so extend the
number of the men, in order rt> employ them
differently from what tliey were intended.
He hoped they (hould not proceed to form a
nother (kefeton of a regiment, for field officers
would not be employed, if made. In thelaft
war, to the southward, there was scarcely e
ver more than a captain's command. Indeed,
he confulered field officersas of little more use
in the field than ir. garrifoa duty, and there
fore wholly unnecessary. When the present
regiment was firft organized, one lieutenant
colonel was obje&ed to ; but it was said this
regiment was to-operate as a kind of military
school", and on that ground it was agreed to.
He supposed the great depots of commerce
would iiave been attended to ; but he did
not think it was necessary to go to the extent
in preparations for war which gentlemen
contemplated. He hoped they would not
give way so far to their wilhes on this fubjeft,
without enquiring into our ability to support
theexpence. He believed the greatest want
by and by, would be the want of money, and
that, therefore, no estimate (hould be made
larger than necessary.
Mr. S. Smith (aid, the present corps of ar
tillerists and engineers conlifts of one lieute
nant-colonel, four majors, and sixteen com
panies of 62 men each, making; 992 men, ex
clusive of-the officers. Whether they are
complete, or not, he did not know. Menare
constantly £oing out, and there have been
some efertions. This corps has not been
found fufficient for tiie western frontier and
the Atlantic forts. The gentleman from Vir
ginia had said, there was no occasion for ar
tillery 011 the western frontier, as that service
was not contemplated when the regiment was
formed. On reflection, that gentleman mult
allow that they are necessary at Detroit, in
the neighbourhood of the British ports, at
Niagara, Michaelmackinoc, and at Walnut
Hills and the Natchez. That gentleman is
also of opinion that field officers are not neces
sary in service. He was himfelf of a different
opinion, and spoke of the manner in which
they would be necessary. The chairman of
the select committee has staled that it was the
opinion of the committee that nine additional
companies would have been fufficient. He did
himfelf think these would have been fuffiei
, enl ; but reflecting farther upon the subject,
he believed 16 companies would not be too
many. Our ports on the Spa«i(li frontier
mull be fublhantially garrisoned, as they are
far removed from any militia, except what
may be formed from the people resident there.
It muftbe in the view of every gentleman,
said Mr. S. that we are about to be involved
' in war. It is more than probable. If this is
the caTe, and he believed it was, we mull have
more artillery.than are necessary to guard our
pests. We mult have (uflicient besides for an
' array of 20,000 men. He, therefore, thought
'a complete regiment would be necessary.
An objection was made by the gentliynan
from Virginii, o:i the ground of expence.
This was no time, Mr. S. said, to talk of ex
pence. We rrtoft, said he, provide meajis of |
defence. This is our du'V; and it is the du
ty of the people cheatfuUy to pay the ev- <
pence. H i object had always been to pre
serve the peace, Hehad conlt int
ly reprobated every nieafure which could lead
to war. During tite extraordinary session, he
opposed the increafeof our artillery or i
armament. He tfent heartily htto-the appro
priation for the defence of our ports and har
bours ; into the expence of. equipping and |
manning our frigates, and that of two veirels
of ten and twelve guns, for the purpose ot
protesting ourcoaftsand ports. The House
had been told that every thing had been done
with respeCt to the frigates with as much ex
pedition as possible. This they must believe.
They were alio told that the cutters could
not be put to sea for want of cannon. This
Dm (I be believed also ; but he was sorry to
believe it.
The present was, however, a very different i
appearance of things, from that which nre
fented itfelf during the extraordinary leilion.
The documents which had been laid before
the house shew, that war is almost inevitable ;
that itrs not in our option to fay. there lhall |
be no war. It is in the option of another na- 1
tion, who appears to be irritated with us,
whether justly or unjustly he fhotild not en
quire. It appears that peace is no longer
within our grasp. Believing this, he would
do all in his power, not only by his voice,
but by all the means which nature and his
own induflry had given him, to fuppurt his
country. Whilst iie conceived it to be in our
power to preserve peace, he was desirous of
taking every measure to preserve it; but now,
when lie (aw war approaching, he would meet
it, and no man (hould be found more ready
than he to defend his country. He would
the regiment of artillery now alked for,
because he believed it necefl'ary fc He believed
more cavalry would be wanted in the southern
country, though in the p»rt from whence he
came they were not wanted. He would also
give them.
Though thequeftion, Mr. S. said, was only
for an addition to the corps of artillery, it in
volved in some degree the defence of the
Union generally, and would warrant his faying
what he thought necelTary to fay on this fub
jett. Money, he allowed, was the. great ef
lential- With money every thing was eal'y.
We have, said he, within otirfelves every
means of defence, and recourse ttitifl be had
to them. The committee of ways and means
hare the fiibjeCt of revenue before them.
They will report a plan, which will not, per
haps, bring money immediately into the trea
sury ; but, in the present frtuati.in of things,
anticipations might eafity be got from the
monied men of the country".
Mr. S. concluded, by faying he had gone
fartherinto the fubjedlthan, according to the
rules of order, he ought to havie gone; but
trusted he should be excufcd from having
dwelt upon a question which would but too
much intcrelt us, he apprehended, in a short
time.
Mr. Macon expeCted the gentleman lad
up would have spoke to she question, and
shewn the use of additional field officers. He
did not wish tolavifh money away, as, if we
were to be engaged in war, we should have
occasion for all that could be got. He had no
doubt the monied men in this country would
do as much as the monied men fh any other.
But as he could fee no occasion, and none had
been (hewn, for ten field officers in the artille
ry, he should oppose the present motion.
Mr. Pinckney said, it limit give real plea
sure to every true friend of his country, to
find the unanimity which exists in this house
for supporting every measure which may be
deemed necelTary for the defence of our coun
try ; and when they differed, it was merely
about this Qr that mode of carrying into effeCt
the plans proposed. He ccnlidered it to be
the obje£t of the gentleman from N.Caroli
na, to be economical on this head, that we
might have better means for effecting some
other nieafures. But if the gentleman con
sidered the amount of this economy, as ex
tending only to a few officers, he would scarce
ly think it worth contending for..
According to the establishment of the Uni
ted States, they had no separate corps of en
gineers. The aftillerifts and engineers are
connected together, and the field officers are
the propereft persons to be employed as en
gineers, and therefore he conceived the ad
ditional officers would be necelTary. Betides,
these officers being experienced men, will be
ready to take 1 command in cafe of any sudden
attack. Indeed, when the extenfiver.efs of
our coalt and frontier is coniidered, it mult be
acknowledged it would be bad economy to
have too small a number of officers.
Mr. Sheparh laid, if it were likely we
(hould go to war, it would be absolutely ne
celTary to agree to the amendment. He
doubted not men of knowledge and experi
ence would be appointed as officers, two or
three of whom would have to be employed as
engineers to overlook the works at the diffe
rent fortifications, by which means the United
States would favemore money than their pay
would amount to .
Mr. J. Williams should be in favour of
an additional lieutenant commandant and four
majors, if the number of our artillery were to
be doubled, as the officers, who would doubt
less be men of science, would be capable of
aCting as engineers, and ready in some cases,
to command the militia, inckfe of a war.
Mr. Gallatin. If the object of this a
mendment had been solely to decide that there
should be field officers according to the addi
tional companies of artillery to be raised, he
did not know that he should have troubled
the committee upon the subjeCt, as he did not
pretend to be well acquainted with military
matters ; but sixteen companies were now
proposed to be raised in lieu of eight which
the feleft committee thought fufficient.
Upon this ground, it was difficult to decide
this question. The chairman of the commit
tee read a letter whiclv had been written to
Uim by the Secretary of War, Miich contained
certain information on the fiibjeCt ; but as
this letter had not bpen laid before the house
and printed, as was customary in such cases,
reference could not be had to it. When the
house were applied to for additional troops, it
was customary for thein to have before them
: an account of the present ellablifhment, where
stationed, and for what purpose the addition
i was wanted. Nothing of this kind was now
I before them ; they had been told in a vague
manner, that having appropriated largely for
, fortifications, additional artillery would be
» wanted. He hoped when a bill was reported,
r this information would b&given to the house.
It had been said, by the gentleman from
t Maryland, that we are on the eve of a war.
He agreed, that the probability of war is
, greater than it has been at any former period.
I j He would not make any'remarks on what had
5 drawn us into this situation. But amongst the
: ; causes, he would beg leave to mention, the
r j publication of the late dispatches from our
l Envpys in France, ordered by the Senate,
t [The Chairman said tlus remark was not
i in order]. Mr. G-. said, the gentleman from
l : Maryhind had grounded-all his arguments
. ' upon the present alarming situation ot the
- country ; and he meant to state only that the
publication of these papers had d( flroyed the
hope which he belore entertained of a recon
ciliation. [Acry of ordcr~\. Mr. G. wished
so know, what was in order. He supposed it
it was not in order to speak of what had led to
the present (kuatiou of things, he Ihuuld be at
liberty to state in what the danger of this
country eiciftj; He conceived that the great
danger with which a war threat/ns this coun
try, is as it refpetts the capital of the nation,
and the revenues of the United States. The
greatest mifcluef would arise from the capture
of our velfels, and in the next, from being
deprived of the ability to pay the revenues of
the United States. The revenue would be
immediately diminished by captures, and also
from a want of ability in eur merchants to pay.
These he looked upon as the greatest evils to
be apprehended from a war, and therefore he
contended that it was the duty of the house
to be cautious how they expended money un
necelTarUy.
If the etteCt of a war, will be to decrease
our revenue, every objeCf ot expence should
be avoided which is not eflfentially necelTary.
He agreed that fortifications are necelTary ;
and it was pofiible, on farther information,
he might be convinced that it was proper to
increase the Artillery Corps 16 companies,
instead of 8, as firft stated ; but at present,
lie did not think them necelTary.
Is there, said Mr. G. any person on this
floor seriously afraid of an invasion ? He was
sure lie was not. Because the enerny we may
have to contend with, is weak in every point
which relates to invasion. She has a weak
navy; her means of transport are fmail; the
immense sea which divides us is a security a
gainst it; but the greatest security is, our own
power and resources, and the conviction that
an attack upon this country can Le no object
with that. Their objeCt will be plunder, and
that will be carried on by attacking our ves
sels. There was, therefore, no real danger
of invasion by an Army ; but he allowed it to
be pofiible that a few (hips might come and
lay some of our towns oil the coast under con
tribution, or plunder our harbours. Against
this he was willing to provide. If in the e
vent of War, it shall be necelTary to have an
army of 20,000 men, then an additional num
ber of artillery may be necelTary ; but as he
confidcred the defence cqiitemplated went 110
farther than the protection of our harbours
against the depredations of any few veiTels
which might attack them, he did not think
it necelTary to go so far as was proposed, with
respeCt to the artillery.
What, he enquired, was the additional
number of artillery alked ? Some fay sixteen
companies ; others eight. We have sixteen
at present. Where are they employed r Four
in the harbours, and twelve on the weltein
frontier. He asked what use twelve compa
nies were on the frontier! A few at Niagara
and Detroit might be neceftary. Perhaps
four companies. But he held in his hand the
reasons which the Secretary of War had giv
en for placing them there. It was not to pre
serve the frontier from Indian invasion ; but
in order to preserve the peace of the Union ;
to preserve order and good government a
mongftour own citizens [Mr. G. readanex
traCt from a report of the Secretary to this ef
feCt] On this ground, Mr. G. said, he had
an opinion of his own. Without being-a mi
litary- man (which he was not) he might fay,
an army is not necelTary to keep the people
from subverting order and good government.
He conceived it was not the intention of Con
gress to place these men there when they
were firfl raised. He thought, therefore, that
eight companies might be withdrawn from the
wefteTn frontier, without inconvenience, and
placed on the sea-board.
We ought, at this time, he said, to hus
band o,ur resources as well as we can, and not
go into any expence which can be avoided.
He should, therefore, vote against the amend
ment ; for if ever sixteen companies are ne
celTary on the sea coast, eight might be drawn,
as he had stated, from the frontier.
He had heard it twice repeated (onceyefter
day and again to day) that we mult firft pro
vide ,fpr the effectual defence of the country,
and then look out for money. He believed
it-would be found extremely inconvenient to
pu'rfue this mode. On the contrary, he tho't
it would be wife to take a view of our resour
ces firft ; and ff it is found they are extend ve,
and equal to jay purpose proposed, then let
all be done ; but firft to go into every expence,
and then enquire whether resources could be
had, he did not think the most prudent plan.
He believed it would be well to look into our
means, and then seleCt such objefts of ex
pence as would be of the greatest service to us.
He ftiould wi(h that the resolution might
be agreed to under the idea of eight compa
nies ; and before a bill was reported, other
objects CoiHd be taken into consideration, and
the Committee of Ways and Means, might in
the mean time, make a report on the situation
of our means, when the house would be bet
ter able to determine, than at present, what
would be fitted to be done.
Mr. G. said, he (liould vote against the a
mendment, not because he wasagainft additi
onal field officers, because he was not a judge
of the fiibjeCt ; but because he thought six
teen additional companies unnecelfary ; be
cause the committee had a number of objects
before them, and neither knowing the extent
to which they meant to go, nor the extent of
our means, therefore, he lliould vote against it.
Mr. Brooks agreed ivith the gentleman
just fat down, that he was not a good judge of
what relates to military matters ; and he
thought, by this time, the committee must
be of opinion that he was a very indifferent
judge of the whole fiibjeCt 011 whiclv he had
spoken. He had (aid that four companies of
Artillery are fufficient for the whole frontier.
If the gentleman had taken a rauge from the
lakes to the Mififfippi, and viewed our nume
rous posts there, he would not have ventured
the position. He hkd pretended lo fay that
the Secretary of War had given it as his opi
nion that there was 110 occasion for Artillery
011 the frontier, except to preserve order a
mongst our own citizens; but he could not
think this was said generally with refpeft to
all the posts. The gentleman has, on the o
thdrhand, reprefented'the nation with whom
we are likely to be at war as a weak people,
from whom no danger is to be apprehended ;
yethelhould not wonder, if before the session
rises, he should fpeakof them in a most formi
dable (hape. Our inland towns he repre(ent
eri as in jjo danger, and therefore, that the
artillery proposed are not necelTary ; but if lie
took a view of our coast from Maine to Geor
gia, he thought it must convince him that
employment might be found for fifteen or
sixteen companies of artillery.
But the gentlemaii fays, we are not to con
sider our danger, but firft fit down and count
the colt. He thought the gentleman begun
at the wrong end of the bulinefs. If he had
been in the country at the commencement of
our revolution, he would not have thought
this the proper course of proceeding. We
then determined to defend ourselves and pre
serve our independence, whatever was the
cost ; and he believed this would be the bed
i course to be pursued on the present occasion,
: and not calculate what the people can af
ford to pay, or what they will be willing-to
g*y, ami if this' be not fufficieot, fit down
and funer ourselves to be devoiired. On the
contrary, he thought it bed firft to determine
whether it is proper to defend oiirfelvesfrom
invasion, and having determined this, go on
to fay what are the neceflary preparations to
be made, and after these are decided upon,
then fit down and look out for the ways and
means. And not fold our hands and cry out,
there • a lion in the streets, and we (hall be
devoured, without malting an effort to de
fend ourselves. This doitrine, he could as.
sure the gentleman, will not pass current in
this country.
/vs to what the gentleman had, said with
refpeft to the publication of the papers, his
intention was easy to bedifcpvered call of
order] Mr. B conducted with faying, he was
sorry any gentleman (hould have thought it
neceflary to alarm the people-, by telling them
we have not resources wherewith to defend
ourfetoes. He hoped such an alarm, howe
aver, would neither spread far nor wide.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) said, that the
speech of t|ie member from Pennsylvania,
(Mr. Gallatin) in opposition to the amend
ment for encreifing the corps t>f Artillerists
and Engineer?, rn'i.t e cojflidered as the ex
hibition of another leaf of that favorite boolt
ill which was writtenjtke fvftem of his uniform
opposition to all the :ii-.\ifiif»s'of our Adnun
ilir:\fiort.. It W>iS )' in other words, the second.
part of that fort of: lanceuvre, or (kilful man
agement, which was firft attempted in the cafe
of the foreign iuterroi r'e bit!; when, under
the semblance or i: .(reducing an (economical
reform, his real object to acconip jih o
ther and more ijxyjofrairt changes, li could
not be so soon forgottejj how that gentleman,
in the recent instance * . liipd to, profefling ,
no other deSign than to reflate the conipen
fations of foreign Minilien, did aim in eflieftj
by that indirect though certain mean, to de
fine and designate as well the number as the
reflective grades of our foreign Agents, and
tliereby virtually to place hi.ufelf m the Pre
sidential chair. Po(l?fiing the fame temper,
and persevering in the fame views, the gentle
man, although then defeated, was not dif-
CoUraged from again attempting to carry his
point, under the alike plausible profeilbns of
anxiety for (Economical arrangements. When
an additional number of troops is called for,
in order to man our fortifications along the
seaboard, or indeed to p rot eft them from fall
ing into decay, he does not deny that they are
wanted for this ptirpofe, and that those which
are dationed at the fortifications in our ports
and harbours are inadequate, but boldly takes
it upon himfelf to decide and declare, that
treble the number which are neceflary are
ported alon£ our interior frontier, and that
they ought to be recalled to the fca-coaft.—
Could such language and condutt, Mr. Dav
ton a (Iced, be otherwise considered by those
who viewed it in itscertain effects, than as an
other attempt to usurp the place and duties
of the Chief Magifirate, and to wrell from
him, or what was equally unconstitutional,
to participate with him one of the mod im
portant attributes of the office, that of Com
mander in Chief of the Army.' The member
from Pennsylvania knew well that by defeat
ing the proportion tor adding to the number
of troops, they wcAild compel the President
to withdraw those now in service from the sta
tions where he, whom the Constitution has
made exclusively the judge, had thought that
the common defence and general welfare re
quired thent to be stationed. The member
had, indeed, in words as plain as he could,
(peak (though perhaps inadvertently, because
incontinent with the profellion of having a.
(ingle view to ceconomy) declared unequivo
cally, that such was the very object which he
aimed at. It was not pollible, Mr. Davton
said, that a majority of tha." committee Should
be found to countenance an opposition which
went in efi'eft to fay, let this fort re (ji be dis
mantled, let that pod be abandoned, let the
interior frontier be dripped of its defence, and
let the House of Reprefematrves in future di
re# the movements and several Rations of the
troops. However well quabfied tlie gentle
man from Pennsylvania might be to regulate
and direct those things, and to perform the
duties of the Commander in Chief, yet it was
very certain that the people hud not called
him to that dation, nor confided to him that
trull, and that in his legislative capacity as
Representative, he could not be warranted in
his attempt to exercise it.
As.to the objection againd the amendment
upon the principle that fixtcen com pan es mult
compote a regiment, a>,d thai they would be
more than had been (uggeded by the commit-*
tee to be neceflary, Mr. Dayton would re
mark, that by adopting it the Hou(e did not
decide upon the number of theadditian to be
made.
The question was merely whether another
regiment (hofld be raised, and when the bill
(hould be brought in pursuant to the resolu
tion, it would then be the proper time to de
cide whether it (hould conlid of three or four
battalions, that is of twelve or (ixtecn com
panies. He acknowledged, that under his
present impreflion he Should prefer the form
er, but he did not wish to decide that quefli
on now, beca'ufe it was desirable to gain more
information than they were now potfefled of,
or than the felefl committee was prepared to
give them. Many advantages would accrue
from organizing them in a fepaiate regiment,
and the additional expenfe'ifrould be no more
than that of the Lieutenant Colonel, for the
companies to b*. raised mud be clatTecfin bat
talions, and Majors of course appointed' to
command them.
Mr. Ga i. la tin believed he was as good a
judge as the gentleman fiom New Jersey could
be, of the purposes for which lie had been
oieCted. He believed he was the Cole-judge
of tlie line o£co-nduCt which it was proper lor
him to adopt, and of the extent of his duty ;
and lie CQuld not conceive that he had'not a
right to take into conlideration the present dis
position of the .troops of the Ull ited States, it»
order to ascertain. how tar it was necelfary to
incteafe their number. He thought the ob
jection which had been made extraordinary,
efpccially as it appears from the report of the
Secretary of War that he expetled the House
won Id take the ma t ter into consideration ; and
therefore dates the reasons why n» reliance
can be had upon troops on the frontier. He
well knew that the President of the United
States, and the Secretary of War under him,
had the difpolition ot the troops of the United
at j S r ; k"' ' le a "° knew, 'hat if more were
aSked for, for any particular service, andCon
did not agree to prov ide so many aswere
atked, the consequence would be that men
would be drawn from quarters where they
were ot lealt use, and placed in others where
necefuty called for them.
As to the obserVations of the gentleman
from New.York (Mr. Sroolcs) he did not
know whether they required any anfwer 1 . He
allowed that gentleman might be a better,
judge of military affairs than him ; but when
lie (poke ot artillery as being neceflary on the
frontier, he thought he made 110 display ot mi
litary knowledge, (t is well Lijiowii that from
1789 to 1794, we had only four companies of
artillery, li j s true that we have now got
poivthon ot the pofjs on the I.akcsbut thisro'ild 6nly be •confiJ.ered as a remcT.tl of onr
frontier.
The gentleman from New-Yoric had said,
that his (Mr. G'<) mode (Jf arguing would not
obtain-Ah»t he prdpofed fiibmiflkm, because
of the expense' which would attend defence—
that he wished to alarm the people ot the Un
ited Staffs, 'by an inlinuation that we did not
po'.lel; the means of defending furielvei?
Was it to aWiri tfic people of the United,
States, that he said !\e did not believe we had
reason to expeft an lnvafton, from thertrength
and resources of our country, and from the
iveaknefs of the enemy ? It was his wish that
ou# danger, our real, situation, (hould be
known, without exaggeration on either fide.
He had himfeft conlidered our situation, and
it appeared to him that the mod %ve had to ap
prehend was from our money resources. If in
1776 there was an immediate danger of inva
sion, he knew very well it was not a time to
confidy of expense ; but when war is made
upon otfr money resources, he thought it
light to take these into confideralion, and
not cripple ourselves in that part which will
be molt exposed. Is it ndt (rue, said he, that
our revenue is chiefly derived from imports >
•And will not war greatly derange that-reven
■*ie » And is it not proper to consider that at
the time we are about to make large expen
ditures of money in defendve measures f. If
an individual was to aft in the way recom
mended by the gentleman from New-York,
his conduct would not be mueh admired. He
acknowledged there might be times whenex
pences might be a.fubord.nate consideration ;
but he believed our present danger principal
ly threatened fmr property, and the deltrue
tion of our revenue. It was proper, there
fore, to let oi.r measures and resources go
hand in hand, iflid it was on this ground that
lie fbould vote against the amendment.
He might be excused if he was actuated in
some degree by the difficulty always attendant
in the reducing of an ellabliiliment when once
gone into. Causes which gave way (o eltas
bliflimeuts may ceale, and eliablilhments con
tinue. He need only refer to our prefect
Military and Naval Eltabl/'rtiments, which
were raised for different purposes from those
for which they are now maintained.
1 he question on the amendment was put
and carried, there being 35 votes in favour
of it.
The resolution as amended was put and
cairied, there being 61 votes for it.
Mr. Sew A Li. rhen called up the resolution
reported at the fame time with the above, for
the purpose of purchasing arms, ammunition
and cannon, which he moved to amend by
giving the President power, in cafe he found
any difficulty in purchasing camion or arms,
to purchase or rent foundries or armouries.—
Some oppofjtion was given to this amend
ment, and the conlideration of it was poltpon
ed until the information which some days ago
was called for on this fitbjeel from the Exe
cutive, was received.
The committee rose, and reported the re
solution agreed to, and a bill was ordered to
be brought in accordingly.
The Speaker laid before the house a re
port from the Secretary of War, on the fub
je£t of canno,*i and arms (above alluded to)
which were- referred to the committee of the
whole qh the State of the Union.
The bill making an appropriation for the
government of the buildings in the city of
Washington, was received from the Senate
with amendments, and referred to a select
committee.
Mr. Wadsworth, from the committee
of enrolment, reported the bill relative to
confnls as duly enrolled.
Mr. Sewai.l alked and obtained leave of
abfente for his colleague Mr. J. Pap.ker, for
tbe remainder of the session. Adjourned.
LONDON, March 2.
High Treason.
Last Thursday, Binns, a well known mem
ber of the I.ondon Corresponding Society,
went to the road of Kent, to provide a con
veyance for certain perlons desirous of going
to France. Government, we believe had in
formation of this proceeding. Binns went to
■Canterbury iji the stage, and from thence
toolc a liorle to review the coad. He agreed
with a fifliermauat Whit (table, to takeover a
gentlemanand his servants to Holland. Whit
ftable is a final! (idling town at the mouth of
the Swale ami also at the mouth of a brook
running from Canterbury, of which it may be
cofifidered as the sea port. The bargain
•Binns made was to give ija guineas,'for con
veying the person* to Holland, and to leave
300 guineas as lecurity ill cafe the veflel
lhould be (eized. The bargain being fet'led,
the parties had advice, of it, and on Sunday
morning they failed from London in the Wliit
ftable hoy. They arrived on Sunday night,
and being met by Binns, they made immedi
ate and eager enquires reflecting theirdepar
♦ure. They at firlt represented that they wifli
ed to go to Holland ; but then they observed
that being better known in France, they
would rather go thither at once. This was
the Itate cf things on Sunday night ; and here
it will be proper to describe the parties that
Came down in the hoy.
James John Fevey, laid to have been a Ro
man Catholic Pried. He is a (frong well
made man, thirty five years of age. .It is fuf
pedted that Fevey is not his real name, and
that he is a very different person from what he
is represented. He is supposed to be a man
of coolequence.
John Ally, a young well made man, mark
ed with the finall pox.
Arthur O'Connor, of whom the publis has
already heard so much refpefting the affairs of
Ireland. '
Lenry< a young man, servant to Mr.
O'Connor, and
Binns, whom we have already mentioned.
These ate the five persons accused. .AH of
them except Binns, arc Irilhmen : we'are not
able to fay whether lie is from .Ireland or not.
These four persons embarked on Sunday
morning from London, in the character ot
•(apt. Jones, and his servants. Fevey was
capt. Jones, and all the others were his fer
v'aiitJ. But when they landed at Whitltabie,
Fevey gave hiinfelf out as colonel Morris,
itnd all their luggage, of which there was a
conljderable quantity, was marked "Colonel
Morris." The parties were net however ve
ry eager to give themselves out for any thin£ ;
bnt % .t Whit (table, enquiriesbeing made, they
with tome reluctant e aud confulion, gave out
themfflves col. Morris arul servants ; and
they did this, notwithstanding their previmis
account that they were capt. Jones and fer-
Vants. r r ■
. This inconliftent account led to suspicion at
Whitltable. . .
Another circumstance leading to suspicion,
wai their extreme anxiety to depart for
l'nnce. , . ,
-'Early on Monday morningthe cuftora houle
officer examined their gooCfs. They freely al
lowed htm to infpeft some packages of hams,
biscuit, and sea (tores, trunks of cloths, &:c.
but certain very heavy fmali mahogany boxes
thev would not open, pretended the firtvant
had not come forward with the keys. This
was another circumstance that txcited (jifpici-
Ob, and the officers refufed to allow them to
depart till those boxes were examine'?.. Now
they found that they wcr/iufpecle.!, and re
solved to feck for a more easy place of em
barkation. For this purpose they on Mon
day night hired a cart to convey away thsir
trunks next morning: The carrier knew not
whither he was bound : but he travelled a
long- the U:id< 011 Tuesday forenoon from
Whitltable to Margate? O'Conrier, Fevey,
See. walked all the way by the fide of the cart ;
the didance is 15 miles. Binns had a map qf
thecoalt, and to the alfonifhment of the carri
er, feffmed to know the roads better than him,
though he had lived in the country many
years. The parly entered Margate on Tues
day afternoon (oon after day light had expir
ed. They desired to be conducted not to one
of the belt inns, but to some filial! public
1 house. The/were accordingly taken to tlie
. King Head, close to the water fide, kept by a
! Mrs. Crickets. Here they took, up their a
| bode on Tuesday night, and made some in
quiries about a fifh.ng boat going to France,
bus the rcfult not being very favonrable ro
their views, they tefolved to .go to Deal next
dav, where there was a friend upon whom
they eould rely for providing them with a
conveyance to France. Of this Cinnsaflured
them, and he seemed to be tin guide in all re
fpeiits-. On Tuesday night they (lept at Mar
gate, witk the determination of setting oft for
Deal next morning.
Reversand Fugion, two of the Bow (treet
officers, were the persons appointed by go
vernment to apprehend them. It is pretend
ed that these officers went down in Kent, at
Gravefend.on other bulinefs ; but we believe
they were ferit from London especially 011 this
bulinefs, and that government had good in
telligence of the proceedings of the parties
now in custody. When the Bow Itreet offi
cers found their men had paded Gravefend,
they followed them, that they (liould
firlt commit themselves with regard to their
of going to France before they were
apprehended : &at the fame time the officers
were prepared with d veifel to follow and
leize them had they embarked. It wastho't
that the parties had fufficicntly commitied
themselves at Whitltable, with regard to their
place of destination, and it was feared they
would take a veflel under pretence of going
to Deal, Dover, or some other part of the
coalty and when they had it at sea, compel the
crew to carrey them to France. These reasons
niade the officers resolve to seize them at Mar
gate ; they saw that they might escape to the
continent without embarking for that country,
and they saw 110 pro'pect of having better
proof against them than they were actually
polTelTed of with refpeitto their object ofgo
! ingto France. The officers, therefore, re
solved to seize them next morning. On'l'uef
j day night tiiey got hold of the carter, and
■ drew from him every information pollible. At
firlt he was not at all communicative, the
parties having cautioned him to be silent re
fpefting whatever he might observe ; but be
ing urged by the officers, lie told all he knew.
011 VVednefday morning about si ve o'clock,
the Bow (treet proceeded to the King's
head, at Margate, to arrelt the parties. The
officers had previoully consulted some cu(torn
house officers, whom they engaged in their
j cause, together with a party of the military.
! Fevey was in the parlour at breakfaft. They
bounced in upon him by surprise. Binns they
apprehended coming down liairs, and O'Con
nor and Leaiy they took in their bed rooms.
On Binns were fouiid a pair of piltols, and all
theothers were provided "with arms.
From Fevey's person was taken a large
strong (harp, serpentine fliaped dagger. As the
parties w ere taken separately, they were ealily
secured. Fevey submitted quietly, but O'-
Connor formed much. Before the proper
measures were taken at Margate fqr securing
their luggage, papers, the witnefles, &c. it
was nine o'clock 011 Wednesday, when all the
parties departed under a military elcort for
Canterbury. As they travelled (lowly, it
was too late when they arrived in Canterbury
to hope to reach London the fame day in any
reasonable time for'bulinefs.
They therefore resolved to remain all night
•at the Red Lion. Several military officers, a
mong others lord Paget, came to fee the pri
soners. Fevey was civil, though reserved,
but O'connor and Binns were very warm and
indignant, (peaking in language designedly
offenlive to their vilitors. They remained on
mattrall'es all night, prisoners ai d officers in
the lame room, and a military guard in the
Early yelterday morning they departed from,
Canterbury, and arrived at the public office,
Bow (treet, under aguard of light liorfe, a
bout half palt 3 o'clock. They came in three
post chaises, befidesa post coach with the lug
gage and some of the witnefles, and the escort
conlilled of twelve horsemen. It was not the
hours of business at the public office, Bow
(treet, when they arrived; but Mr-. King,
secretary to the Duke of Portland, Mr. Ford,
and other magirtratcs, were inllaritly afleni
bled, before whom they underwent a flight
examination.
From the firC. of their arrest, Fevey said le
went down to the coast t»r his health, and
was desirous of going to Ireland in a veflel.
O'Connor and Binns reftifed to answer any
quertion and in the conduct they refpeCftively
perlilted before the magiltrates. Mr. O'Con
nor avowed who he was, and Binns was ealily
identified! On be ng taken, they owned (uch
trunks as contained clothes, & such packages
as contained provisions; but they denied all
knowledge of certain finall mahogany boxes,
said to have been in their pofleffions.
These boxes were uncommonly heavy ;
made so, it was supposed, for the purpose of
finding, had'he velfei in which they were been
fpized by any EngLlh (hip of war. .These
boxes had not been opened at 7 o'clock lad
night; the contents of them are fir/l to be
examined by the Privy Council. It is re
ported that tl-.ey contain many important pa
pers relpeiHing a traiterous correspondence
between Ireland and France, and England and
I ranee, Inch as a flu ranees and declarations of
the various societies and individuals. It would
be improper to relate here all we have he aid
respecting the papers. They are represented
'_as of the utmolt importance, and likely to dis
close the mod interelling facts. In the pock
et of a great coat hanging in the room where
Ftvey was taken, a declaration or address to
the Directory was found. This paper, it is
said proves the correspondence of the parties
with the Directory
Feveydifowns the paper, and denies that
the coat belongs to him ; but the officers lay
the coat mult be his as it is powdered on the
neck, and he is the only person of the 5 who
wore powder. It seems he did not wear pow
der till he set offon his journey. The paper,
it is said, purports to be an address from the
Executive Directory us Britain (conltituted of
members of the London correlpondmg focje
ty) to the Executive Directory of France,
dating that a delegate from each dtvifion were
then fitting, and that the hearer was the wor
thy citizen who had the honor of waiting on
hjin once before.
Th* money found upon their persons was
nearly as follows :
Fevey 201. O'Connoi 101. Ally 101. Leary
■ 91. Biniis rf. Makiiv; in all :*.bott* 6a.ruineni;
j but it is conjeiturrd that id ths heavy boxes
| there were a'xni't sro siiine.n.
Th.* nia»'ltfavs ordered rbrm to be om
m'tted to fe ar.t'e prifon-. They were all un
der examination at 'he dukeof Portland's' of
fice when this paper went to press, this mor
ning.—Star.
%ln oascrtc»
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, April 19.
■ • V ,
ExtraS of a letter from Spain, dated Feb.
24 th, 1798.
j "By a "decree-os the French refpedting
1 the neutral veflels of all nations, if there
aft: any goods found on board, the proper
ty of Englidi, the manufactory of tnglifh,
or the produce of any Engliflx country, tjie
(hip and cargo are condemned as lawful
prize. In virtue of rim decree, the (hip
Otter capt. Bt-nnet End the schooner Wil
lard, Harraden, both of and from Boston,
are carried by French cruizers into*Cartha,-
gena ; and we apprehend that eve
ry knavi(h chicane will be made use of to
get those vefTels condemned."
ExtrnQ of a letter from Massachusetts, dated
<jth April, 1798,
; •* An union in Congress in dccifive mea
sures would unite the whole people ; but a
divided and weak Congress, may involve the
nation in great calamities. This danger
awaits us. How deeply to be regretted
that Congress should have wafted at lead
two months at this eventful period in child
! i(h.debates in making fpeeehes for newspa
pers, when the all-important concerns of the
nation required manly decision. The inter
course bill employed fix weeks, when it
ought to have been decided in a day ; —the
spitting business, which did not require an
hour, took up two weeks. Not only the
precious time is loft at this momentous a:ra,
but the dignity of Congress is loft with it.
The long fpeeehes, the fuffering of grcifs is
dccenc es, wrangling of members, the hints
at challenges, and the trifling afpeft of con
gressional proceedings this fefiion, form a
fubjeft of universal regret among all classes
of sensible men. Our only hope under
providence, is in the wisdom and firmnefs of
the President, with a majority of good men
in the Senate ; for as to the house of repre
fentatlves, the reins of government seem
ready to fall out of their hands ; indeed it
seems to be the sole aim of many long fpealc
ers to weaken the executive, and to prevent
the legislature from doing any to secure the
nation : Equally opposed to the neceflary
means for public credit, to the fulfilment of
contrails, and to the means of defence to
our commerce. If some are not traitors,
their aftions look like treafori. It is high
time for some gigantic genius to arise who
(hall be able to " rule the wilderness of free
minds" and lead the house of representatives
to pursue business with dispatch.
The President's proclamation for a faft,
ftrrkes me as a wife mea&jre—and the senti
ments it contains are"excellent, rfttly- worthy
of his high station, and do honor to his
country : I am sure they will meet'the warm
approbation of every good man.
Communications from Philadelphia men
tion that we may expc£t a lift of tration
will soon be published, See. how much trutlf
there may be in. this I cannot fay ; that
there are many traitors in our country I
have no doubt, and should be rejoiced to fee
t he wretches brought to condign punifhmettt.
I cannot biit entertain a hope that it may
be 10. It certainly would not wound our
humane feelings so much to fee such crimi
nals go to execution, as the petty robber ur
house breaker.
I am favored with your gazettes, find
they contain as usual good fluff. But what
avails preaching to deaf ears—or beauty to
blir.d eyes. Congress I perceivecontinu-: to
trifle away day after day as if they were
<waiting for something to' do. Hence the
town meetings at Roxbury & Cambridge—
how many lunatics may follow I cannot tell
but all the jacobins and 'all they can seduce
will rife in proportion as Congress ftnks. —
Countless are the evils winch are resulting
from the inert, faithlefs and factious repre
sentatives. Their demerit is the universal
theme ; it palsies the country. What can
be done ? Are we to fit still and fee these
dead fifh go down dream, and carry the
country with them. Even the federalifts are
not half awake, there is little point or de
cision in many ; iong and lank fpeeehes still
occupy their time. Scarcely one appears to
feel the dignity andrtfponfibilityof his feat ;
theyarevulgatifedby so much low company
and the perpetual din of nonsense. If pro
videncedoes not work wonders for us, as in
times past, woe to our country. If we had
no foreign foes, it might admit of a doubt
whether it would be rational to attempt to
prevent the government from making the
' port of monarchy—as the antrs are crowding
J all failtoreaeh it while their democratic flag
: is flying at mall head—and not a few tics are
• cutting away all the main cables which held
| the ship in republican harbor—to let her
drive before tlje faithlefs winds. Prolific
> time will soon discover to those who may
what is now coming."
Onr aecountsfrom ConnefHcut are of themnfl
pleafin-; aud !Sti.f*<flery complexion. That tru
j enlightened commonwealth preserves its chj
; rafter for a vigilant attention to its true interest,
j The value of Liberty andlndepirnctenee it not
; diminiflied liv the long enjovmrnt of thnfe inef
! timable bleflingt. Tlitffew jacobins in that Oat*
made a great roife, za&greater exertions at the
late eleftion than on an v formeroccafion hutall
; in vain, and worfe—for their lifts of
j for (Jorgreft hive t tally failed—not fcnlv (o,
; l>ut all Jacobins and even doubtful federahfL are
thrown cut of tl.e Sfate Legifljture.
Cv" A Stated Meeting of the American
• Philosophical Society will be at their
j Hall at 6 O'clock (hi) evening.
N. B. New members to be elected.
; CCMuamC.lTldN.
s The arch-inrr'guer Genet brcsjht Into
this country anddiilributeda'iirnrn'enfe sim
r>t secret money, lie madefriench and parti
. zana without number for the French : Fu
- thcr Fa tic bet was not so well foppliedbut he
found that the Democratic patriots had their
1 prices, and would willingly touch monty :
He laments that their gallic infurre£tionary
zeal, visibly abated when it was difcovercd
- tjiat 'he could not bribe them to fulfil what
he cjtlls their duty, in other words, their
| treason agiinft this government, nay they
' fcar.daloufly courted opportunities of bar
ranguing in favor of measures, which they
fortr.erlyhad promoted town-meetings to de
feat :—Adet declares }hat the mod popular
men of the country are for joining in the
views and interests of the French, were
they not thwarted by the wicked Federal
measures of our admmiftration :—TalLy
rand and Co. set us ut defi.ince, and open
ly. a vo\y that they have a party in the coun
try diredted by able agents, who can defeat
every measure we may propose for the sup
port of our national independence. Is it not
high time to edquire who are these traitors
that have fold their country and are ready
to deliver it to the French ? Who are the
men upon whom they rely when they at
tempt to revolutionize the Unittd States ?
Look round you to those who have been the
t afTociates of these French incendiaries, their
midnight companions, their agents at meet
ings, at clubs, their news-writers and pane
gyrics ? Who are they that from poverty,
have become suddenly rich,by French jobbi,
contrasts, or invisible means as it were by
magic ? Whose houses are the resort of
Frenchmen, and who are always in French,
company ? Mark the public men who go
hand in hand with French agents, who de
claim agai 11ft the purity of our own govern
ment and its measures, while on the other
hand they set up corrupt France as a pattern
of all that is excellent . These men cannot
all be houeft. Some of them have Judas
like aceepted the price of the blood of their
friends, and are preparing to betray thefti.
Let us watch them closely for when our
country is at (lake, when we are told by our
enemies that it is already fold, suspicion be
comes a virtue.
MR. FENNO,
The observations of Bache in the Auro
ra of this morning, refpefting the Grand
Jury are worthy of himfelf. The wretch
cannot write but to abuse—nor speak but
to villify. I would advise him not to leave
his Press, for he may be aflured there will
be as much business shortly as he and his
friend Callender can attend to. AddrefTts
from all parts of the Union are coming for
ward, and, it is his duty to attack them,
r because they 6'xprefs the determination of
f the People to support their government.—
J " The Grand Jury,"he observes, are the
, creatures of the Marshal." I was one of
i that body, and I aflert he is a Liar.
J It would be degrading indeed, if there
: (houldbe a man in the United States, who
s would hesitate for a moment, to whose" af
fertiftn to attach the molt credit ; to that, of
, any one of thej late Jury, or of Benjamin
- Franklin Bache. I have not time jutt now
r to fay as much to this man as I could wish ;
s I will,- however, recommend to him to dif
i charge the Notes which he gave to his pa
per makers ; and which, fuice last October
• have been laying protested in one of the
r | Banks of this city, before he fays any thing
f more about Credit.
t Qne of the late Grand 'Jury.
' Yeftevday, after ilpuiing of some ordi
nary btifinefs, the House of Reprefentalives
of the United States went into a committee
I of the whole on the Hats of th;* Union, when
| the bill from the Senate to provide an addi
j tion armament for the fyrther prote&ion of
1 | the trade of the United States, and for other
! purposes, was called- up. This bill propufes
1| an appropriate.r.of 050,000 dollar j, to ena
: ; bie the President to procure, in any manner
> j he nviy deem mod expedient, a number of
> i vefTels, not exceeding flxteen, nor carrying
' more than 22 guns each, to be employed as
: convoys, or in best manner contribute to the
general interests of the U .ited States.-—A
[ motion was made by Mr. Nicholas to ftrikc
out the fourth fedtion of the bill, which di
refts the employment of these vcfiels. He
spoke St considerable length in support of
his motion and Mr. Harper followed him in
! eppofition to it. No qneftion was taken.
The Baltimore papers of Tuesday morn
ing and evening do not mention the arrival
of any vefiel at that port, either from Ham
burgh or England.
TO COKRKBPO f- DENTC
" ArijHJcs, No. III."' 4 A Federaljl"—and <c A.
Z."—fhali he attended so
By this day's Mail.
BALTIMORE, April 17.
At a meeting- of the citizens at the court
house this day, general Swan in the chair,
resolutions were unanimoiifly entered into,
expressive of their approbation ofthe conduit
of the executive, in carrying on the nego
ciations with France, and of their determi
nation to support the governm*nt in repel
ling any attempt againlt the liberty and in
dependence of their country. A complete
copy of the resolutions could not be obtain
ed for this day's Gazette
We are informed, that on Saturday, the
24th ultimo, a large schooner from this
port, commanded bycapt. John Chadw.clc,
was driven on (hore to the westward of Cape
Hstteras, and the captain and all the crew
loft. This vcfi'el was one of a number in
company bound to N. Carolina. Several'
other vefTels are on shore on that coast.
A small incidei t occurred at the Circus
last Saturday evening, which fliews in a ve
, rv forcible manner the rapd change of pop
ular opinion. After feveralof our own fa
vorite tune* had heen played, the Marseilles
Hymn was flruck i-p, bnt the violent bifT
-1 ing and hooting which immediately ensued,
qu.tkly (hewed the mul'tc*ian3 the itectffity
of dropping a tur.e v. hich has become odious
to the cars of ind« prudent Americans. The
Prtfidiiil't; 7»T -vii snd Yankee DooiLV
were then givtr.,' and received with id.
bounded claps of approbation from near
loco fpeflators.
NORFOLK, April 12.
ExtraS of a httlr from Port-au-PriiKe, lo a
gentleman in this tnivn, dated Mfirth y.
" Before this you witl probably
have heard dreadful accounts of this place,
as an alarm had been circulated that we
were on the point of fiirrenderir.pr to the
Brigands. It is true we were given to be
lieve that an attack was meditated, but there
never was the smallest apprehenlions of dan
ger entertained in it. In the town we can
muster upwauls of 3000 men able to carry
arms, who, with the fortifications on or
near the lines, are more than will fuffice 10
keep off a greater force than they can ever
pofliblv bring againfl us. The B igamU
seemed determined to make a general attack
on.all the pods in our poflefiion at the fame
time —They were beat off at L'Archaye
with considerable loss ; But nt Mirabdais
and Grande Bois were more fucccfsful -
ihefe and one called La Coupe about
, fix milts from hence, having fallen into
their hands. This last plice wa« gavrifoned
by one hundred men, fifty of whom were
killed or wounded, including seven officers ;
of the afiailants seven hundred fell in the at
tack ; had not the ammunition given out it
is imagined the garrison would have made a
greater refinance. Camp Fourmur, seven
miles from hence, was attacked verterday
evening by four or five thousand Brigands:
hitherto we have no accounts from thence,
b t we fuppofc our troops maintained thrif
pronnd, as <?ur cohxirs are tlifcernable.
Gen. Neftitt, our new comnnnder in
chief, we {hall now look for aim oft daily—
lie brings out it is reported, four thousand
troops.
NEW-THKATRts
Mr. and Miss Hardinge's Nipht.
TO-MORROW EVENING, April 20,
IVillic frefer.trd a altbrateJ COMEDY, (10
formed tbrfe tiro years) called
THE WEST 4NDIAN.
Stojiivell, mr IVarren ; Belc/wr, rrr Bernard;
captain Dudley rrr Fen-elI ; Cbar'ei Dudley, mr Mar•
/hall; majir 0 * Flaherty, mr Hardlnge ; Stupefy, ir.r
IVarrell, jun ; Fulmcr, mr Harwooi ; VarUnd, wr
Francis ; Sailor, mr Blifjett
Lady Rufpoit mrs L %
mrs Marfkall ; Lwifa Dudley, mrs Hardinge; mr*
Fulmer. Mrs Francis ; J ucy, miss Milhourne.
(fofitively tor that night only)
Air Byrne (in the cbara&er of FA MR) •will FLY
ftom the baik of the Gallery to the further end of the
P'lpe, through a Blazing Sun.
After which, a neru Scotch Pantomimical Ballet (com*
posed by Mr. Byrne), called
HIGHLAND FESTIVITY.
To -which -will he added, a MUSICAL ROMANCE,
in three at.lt called
THE PRISONER.
[As performing at the Theatre, Drury Lar.e, London,
ivitb the great eji Qpplaufe.]
Mnrtos, (the Prfuner) mr. Marjh U; Bernardo
rrr Fox; Pafqual, mr Darley ; Rofarto, mr Blffet /.
Lewis', mr Har*oocd' t Narrjfb, ma per !Vnrrell.
Clara, mrs IVayrtll; Theresa, miss Milhoume ; Isi*
na, mrs M -irjhull; mifs H :ra";nge.
'(lVith new Scenery and Decorations J
Tickets to be had at the usual places, and cf Mr,
Hardinpr, No A«i!i-Street
On Saturday, the favorite Tragedy
of ISABELLA——jrith a celebrated
COMIC OPERA ( never performed Jiere )
tailed, MARIAN—For tile benefit of Mr.
Darley.
Mrs. Warrctll's Night will be on
Mondiy next.
of i.gq Doliars
T he pui i hy the Fa; k of l'canfylfa-»
VV nia, for lath Plan cf a B.f;kiug llosirc,
afcfiijipariied with fcSions and tie .virions, as may
be approved of by the Dire&i rs. Ths bu.iding- is
net intended to exceed <0 f-rf front, or 100 feet
n ijeptli. and to be so planned a to aimit jnf iu
'iring !rt ide fire proot. It i 4 ri.qu I *■!< that the
rl.ins i(iav be far to the CsDiier of tbq Bank, pre*
vious to tae firtt of Juajnext.
ap r i ; 19 tutlistijj
Imported in the ship Phoenix,
Ki.hard G-icc, nufttr, I', om 1
A quantity of Livrfecd Oil, and
Two cases low priced 1 incn Checks
Foil sale bv
• George Pennocl.
eo»f
LOs T, "
' f 11 IS morning inor near the market, a Lac v'»
a Kcii Mcrocto l'oclet Hook with a Silver
C'aCy, ;baut halt' worn,in which were two Ten
Dollar lUi.k Notts and fun.lry papers, nfelefs to
any bu: the nwner. If the perfun «ho fount)
it will ira-ve it snd thec&ntc fs vjth t ie printer
hereof, they willte ifwarded with cue of tlie
ROtCB.
April t8 * ){
New Pub]cat on.
A Sensible, Senfonable and Spirited
ADDRESS,
Written by a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" Whar is our Situation ?
What our Profpeda ?"
A few Pages for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner ot Chefnut an:t Second ilrects,
And at the Office of the Kiiitor, iiyChefm# fir,
(Price three of <? dollar)
£x*ra.ft from the a bore,
" When hour by hour we are yielding
point by point ; relinqoifhing one right to
day and preparing to facrifice another to»
morrow, these generous friends tread rani 4«
ly on our ftepj, and e»ery new conccliion
butopess a new'dehiand. Rapacity grow)
more insolent by uninterrupted success, and
timid fubmifiion invites depredation—Whcri
will this end ? What offering will gorge thtj
appetite of plunder, or zpptrafe the raga
of iinrefifted hoflility ? No civilised ration
has ever before been guilty of such outrage
and ins lence, no free nation lift ever be«
fore .endured them.''
UllANl) hALL,
THE LAST THIS SEASON,
At Rickcttj's Circus, on 1 hurlday next, ig-hinfl.
dirc6h)n of Mr. Byrne. The
snd intend honouring Kirn their
company ' ftrt\ to fend lor TickrU *i caily t«
p»-fiib'e Gin erntn't one dollar r#ch to be h>d «c
o'rjle»fc'c Ho«f!, vd.L dir*'oJ Mr. & Mr* Byrne,
No. in. 5' nth Second, comer o( Dock S;rcet.
•pril c.\Manchester Goods. 1
Received by the latest arrivals from I.iverpool, fe- |
• veral trunks, fuitabje for the prefect ap
proaching fsat'on, which -will be fold very
low for calh or on a fliort credit, vii.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes '
Fancy Waiftcoating in Mars illes, &e. ]
Cotton and iilkandcotton.Hofiery, Pantaloons, (
See. 1
A variety of (English) Umbrellas (
Nankeens, cotton Hhkfs. Shoe binding, &«.
N. B. A cafe of printed Mufliuets, and a trunk
of Pullkat Bangalore Handkerchief., entitled to
drawback, and very suitable for the Weft-Icdies.
Apply No. 3S South Water and corner of Cbef
nut Arret. 4mo. iq-Siw
Treasury Department,
March 19, i"9® -
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
TH ATpropoials will be received at the Office of ,
the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi- ,
ration of the l?th day of July next ensuing, for ,
thefupply of ill rations which may be requued
for the use of the United States, fromthe firft day of
O(Sober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the dittria hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara j at l'reftjue Isle j at Michilimackinae ,
at Fort Franklin s at Pittsburgh ; U I.e Beuf ; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville ;at Picque Town and
Xcramie's store; at Fort Waynes at Fort Defi
ance •, at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon en the River Wabaft; at Maffac; at any
place or places on the eaP. fide of the River Miffif
iippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the lllif:oisßiver ; at any place or placcson the
call si le of the Mifliflippi River below the mouth ,
of the River Ohio to the fouthcrn boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stats ; at
Knoxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Polls in the State of 1 enneffee ; at any place or
places on the east fide of the River Mifliflippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of 1 ennef
fee, to the southern boundary of the UnitedState9.
If supplies fliall be required for any pods or
places not mentioned in this notice.all fucli supplies
ihall be furnifhed at prices proportioned to those to
the pofls before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied to consist of th- fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whif-")
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( hu * dr<jd
of vinegar, two pounds of foap.f „ tions
one pound of candles J
The rationsare to be furnifhed in such quantities,
as th.it there fball at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the tonfumption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the Term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other pofls, for the term of at lead three
months i» advance, in good and wholefonae provi
sions, if the fame fliall be required. It istebe un
derilood, that the contrador is to be at the ex
pence and rifle of ilTuing the supplies to the troops
at each poll, and that all losses sustained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, shall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or dcllroyed, on
the depositions of two ornr.ore persons of credita
ble chirafters, and the certificate of a commission
ed officer, ascertaining the circursftances of the
lofsand the amauDt of rhe articles for whieh com
pensation ihall he claimed.
The priviiedge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furcithrd under thepropofed contrail, fliall be
issued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the contrail now in fcrce have
been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
march 17.
l/l Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR SALE, of different fixes, at a very large
discount from the fterlifig cost. If this Glass is
not difpefed of before the sth ol April, it will he
Clipped from this port.
For terms apply to No. 8.9, South Third-street.
march 26. § 1 w
FOR SALE,
by the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
• John Green* commander,from Bengal,
Confijling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
CofTaes Punjum Cloths
Sanaht Gutzey do.
Humhums Charconua Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Muimuls
Mamoodys Checks
M.iharagonges Pat-na Hkfs.
Ginghims Mulmu! do.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various col.
Mack Pulicats
aoo tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willing.s & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-flreets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an *£l of Congrcfs pafled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
a.terations and amendments have been made to
the ail pafled on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An ad laying duties on stamped vel
" lurt), parchment and paper."
1 I.
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
11.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be afiowed by the Suptrvifors
or Infpeflors refpeilively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, \»ho may pur
chase atone time or procure to be (lamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, iipon
which the duties /hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prefcribedby law, without any addi
tiohal <hjrge or expense on account of the
prii e of Pr.:»r ; but for ftimped-Parchmeut or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each skin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each (kin of
Vellum of medium f.ze, which may be furnift
rd at the expense of the United States and pro-
Lortionally for anylefler quantity.
Cii'en under my hand, at ,-hiladelphia, the
day and yevr aboi'cmevtio:Md.
' OLIVER WOLPOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Germantown and Reading Turn
pike Road Company.
■"TTIE Subfciibet s Commiflioners appointed by
X an Ail of Aflembly of this Commonwealth
entitled, '" An ail to enable the Governor of this 1
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for
making an Artificial Road from the city of Ph -
lacielphia, through G'.'rmantown, by the rout
ofChefnut Hill, to the twelve rails flone on
the Reading Koad, and thence to Reading.in the
county of Berks," hereby give notice, that books
are provided as the law directs, and that we
will proceed to receive fubferiptions for the com
pany's flock on the 28th, 19th, and ,I,oth days
of May next, at the City Hall, in the city of
Philadelphia,at the T.vern of William Buchois,
in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
the county of Montgomery, on the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until two o'
clock, P. M. on ea.h day, when and where cer
tain of the Commissioners will attend to receive
fubferiptions accordingly,
april 14th, 1798.
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
CASPAR W. HAINES,
SAMUEL BET I ON,
GEORGE LOGAN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
IBAAC*FRANKS,
JOS HEISTER,
J. BOWER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
GEORGE DOUGLASS,jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fifteen Dollars to be paid on each
share at the time of fubferibing.
April 17 —eodt3oM
Fresh Teas.
Jufl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Salt, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Cooipting House, No. 54, Chefaut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hit Cflmpting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
also,
China Ware, assarted; black and colo.ured.Lute
ftrings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cafria, large garden
ana common Fans, fattin and kiteflring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
%hey have also For Sale,
Ell wide Petfians, Bandanpa Handkerchii4?» J
French Cambricks aDd Umbrellas, £uga> ir fyoxes. I
rru ch 8. § |
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this .City, Merchant, has assigned h's, pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, ts James
C. Fiflier, Samuel W Fisher, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re- |
quested to furnifil their aceounts without delay— -
and those indebted to make immediate payment to !
the Subscribers, a<Sling Aflignees.
James C. & Samuel W. Filler.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 ' 4<awlf
NOTICE.
T?HREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferr e
Debt of the Uniced States of the follovy in
description, viz —N#. 10033, and
for 5000 dollars aach, dated Bth May,. 179.7, and
ftan^ing 1 on the books ©f the Treasury of the Uni
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Jjapover in England,
Esq. have beep lqfib by the capture of c;he jftup Jjfic
clni?, from hence to London, in June laft-'—Tnis,
therefoi e notifies those wbom it may concern, that
apjTicaSion will be made at the-Treafury ps the U»
nited Stateslror a renewal of the fame.
Waddington isf Hariooad.
march az
Notice is hereby given,
TJiAT a .'plication will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, (landing in the name of the S-übfcri
ber, N0.5004, anddatedjuly 11,1797 —the fame
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5
~ FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 52, Second ft reet, the corner of Chefnutftreet.
REPORT of the Committee ©f the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houf« of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
inftruding them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, todifcever the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" stands impcache J, and who are the parties and
" affociatestherein." ,
Printed by order of the House of Reprefentati-ves
PROPOSAL^™
For Publijhtng by Subfcription>
an
E N I R Y
INTO THE
0RIGI1) OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES.
Letters to Dr. Currie, which I publilhed
kft autumn, led me to an inveflieation of
the origin and phenomena of pestilential diseases
in other countries, as well as in the United St tes.
In the profc'cutjon of the'fubjeA, new fa<fts and
principles continually opened to my view, end fi
nally determined me to trace back the history of
such diseases as for as the records ef history ex
tend. For this purpose, I have examined the pub
lic libraries in New-York, New-Haven, Cam
bridge and Boston, with a view to obtain all the
material fa&s which can Sluftrate the fubj«&,and
I have nearly colle&ed all the materials for the
proposed work.
The la&s eoll :<sled will enable me to demon
strate that many of the common ideas refpeding
pestilential epidemics, are iintounded or extreme
ly incorreil ; and this in confcquence of medical
writers considering an epidemic disease as a detach
ed or isolated phenomenon in a particular coun
try ; rather tban as conneded with other epide
mics cr other phenomena of nature in various
part 3 of the world. The fads I have collc&ed
lead to certain dedu&ions which are fiyprifing to
myfelt, and whioh will probably be new to many
others. Much light will be thrown on tlm dark
and perplexing fubjeit, as well as on natural phi
iofonhy.
The proposed work will make a full-13zed ofta
vo volume ; and executed well on .fine paper, can
not be afforded at leis than two dollars, bound,
with the usual allowance to book-feller?. At thu
compilation will cost not only great labor,but con
fidcrable expecce, no more copies * ill be printed
than to supply fuhferibers. The book will be rea
dy for fubferiber searly in the coming furamer, and
the holders of proposals will be good pneugh to.
return them to No. 40, Pine-flrcet, by the firltof
May.
Subscbi ption s received by the book-fellers in
New-Vork, Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartford, Now London, Providence, Boston, Bal
timore aud Charleftof.
NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
v inarch aB. V
French Morning Schao
G. D UFIE F,
RESPE CTFULLY inToi ms his friends and the
public, that fc» has removed from No. 71,
Chcfnut street, to No. South Second llreet ;
where he will open, on Monday next, the 16th
mil. a Morning School, from 6to 8. He contin
ues to teach every day from 4 to 6 iu the after
-11 son, and from 6 till 9 in the evening.
N. B. Private Tuition attended to as usual, and
translations from either language info the other,
performed with ftcrecy, accuracy and dispatch.
April 1 a. \U
Israel Morris ")
against j Maryland.
ThomasMargatroyd, James Bel!, jlnChancery,
Marikall and Benjamin Smith, f Marcji 8,
Executors of Samuel 1 ! ucker, j 1798.
deeeafed. j
THE objefl of the bill, is for the Compftin-
Viant, Israel Morris, to obtain relief against
a judgment on a bond by him executed, on the
31ft day of December, 1781, to the said Samu
el Tucker, for the sum of £.IOO principal. —
The relief is prayed on the ground, that the
Complainant alligned, by way of secUrity for
the said money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, executed by S.'muel Downing, for the sum
of £.ss° that <hc said Tucker received of the
money due on the said last mentioned bond the
lumof,£.ioo and negle&cd to take steps for
obtaining the residue, until the said Downing
became infolvenr.
The bill states that v all the defendants are
now residents of the State. It is therefore, on
his motion, adjudged artd ordered, that lie
cause a copy of this order to be infertel, three
weeks fuceefiively, in some newspaper of Phila
delphia, in or near which the defendants reside,
at any time before the firli day of May next,
or served upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the said day ; to the intent that they
have notice of the complainants applicarion to
this court and of the substance and objs&of his
bill and rpay be warned to appear here on or
before the third Tuesday in September next, to
fbew cause, wherefore a decree (hould not pass
as prayed.
Attest,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Cau.
April 3 con*
Notice—Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of «* the cor
poration for the rejief of poor and diftrefltd
preibyterian miniftersaod the poor and diflrefTed
widows and children of preibyterian ministers,"
that a uieeting of said corporation is to he hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the second preftytpri an church in the
city of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such
business as may then be brought before the
board. ' ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. tawti6m
' | *HE ternvof Co-partner(hip between the sub-
X fcribtrs, trading under thie firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expiresthis day, and by mutual
! consent will n<?t be renewed* The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jup. to whom ail those indebted.to the partnership,
ace earnqftly requelled to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
| February tp §tf
f landing,
, Jrom oji board the Ship Sally, from
Calc*tta,
Aflp FOR SALE BY Tf'.E lUPSCRIPSK,
i6qq bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Gijiger
30 bales low pric;dj:iecc Goods.
jobWMilkr, Jun.
3
Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfbip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller iff Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
they have opened a W-hpUfaie Dry Good Store,
j at No- &4,South Front Street, Philadelphia ; w.herc
they now have, and intend kceeping a general »f
---fojtment of India, German, Irifa, Freneß and Bri
tijb Mannfadluresfor file, on advantageous termr
for cash or a (liort credit.
.F.brnary 19 stf
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate use, and at a reduced price—For
file by JAMES YARD.
April 4. diw
" "TO "BE LET,
And pojjejfton given immediately,
Agenteel three story brick House,
No. 7, North Eighth street,
24 feet front an-» 55 feet deep, with a handsome
Garden.—Enquire at No. 128 Spruce street.
April 4 §
Just Received,
AND FOR SALE BY
ISAAC HARVEY, Ju.*\
* (No. 5,, South Water Street,)
A Quantity of GeoTgia Cotton.
A LSO>
Prime Apx-Cayes Mplafles
Raisins in ke«
Sugar in barrels—and
A few tons of Nic&tagua wood.
4th mo. 4th §.2W
' IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALB BY THE SUBSCHIBt*,
Claret in cafcs
White wine in half calks *
Sweet oil of afuperior quality in boxes and baskets
Lunelle
Sauterne ( .... f . r
, > Wines in Cales.
Macarty, and (
Mettoc )
Thomas Murgafroyd,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes Intit'ed
Irish market ") ~,■ • _» > to
Medoa, and Sau'erne \ j drawback
Sherry wine in pipe sand quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 bulhcls 1 iverpool Salt.
march 19 mw&ftf
L A N"D IN G
From on board the Schooner Ranger, from
jfjCZUEMEI,
230 Bags, containing*3o,ooo wt. Coffee,
For Sate if
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 147 Chefnut-ftreet-
Who has remaining on hand'6,coo pieces In
dia NANKEENS, of i superior quality.
March 15. _ d6t
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cheils of excellent quality, for sale, cor
ner of SccobJ and Pinc.&ructs. Vlc j6—lotf
treasury department,
MARCH if 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE 15 HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the A<2 of Csngrefs paiTcd on the (ixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-l'even, entitled 4< An A& laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment aod Paper* , and tfae
Ait passed on the fifteenth day of December, «ne thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
" All Ad to p»(lpone for a limited time the commencement of the dutii-s imposed by the euti
tled "An A J't laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firll day of J»ly ensuing, the kveral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and cpUK
ted throughout the United States*
For every skin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or fleet or piece of Paptr, upon which (hall bp
written or printed any or either of the instruments er writings I olio wing—to wit :
Dls Cts. Ml*
Any Gertificate of Naturalization, .... - 5
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the adqsiftion,enrolment er regi:lry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney,Advoeatt or Prodlor, in asy Cpurt ps the
United States, ... - - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United StJtes
for one of the said Qfficei, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
dttty afacefaid, be a fufSclent admission in ?U thf Cpuru of the United
Stales, for estch and every of the said oflices-
Any Grant of Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of ihe United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such gr,ant or Jietters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military fervicesj ... 1
Any Charter-Party, Bottcmry, or Refoondentia Bond, - I
Anv Receipt or discharge for or on accpuntof anyLegacyleftby .any Will or 0-
iher testamentary inftruinent, or for any (hare or part of a pcrfor.al cllatc di
vided by force of any flatute of (liftri'buti«ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereoflhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and fnall uot exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dpllars, ... - - 25
When thereof (hall exceed the vfilue of One Hundred Dpllars and
lhall npt exceed five hundred dollars, ... jq
And fpr every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of 1
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrnment in nature thereof, on any Chip, veffe'l or
goods insured from one diftrift to another in the United States, ig
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for vliidi
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - i$
When the l'um infui-ed (hall exceed five hundred dollars, -
Any E\emplification, of what nature faever, that iliall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the.Clerk of such Court to
funiifti for the use pftthe United States or some particular ftue, - ja
Any Kond.billfmgle or ptsal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promissory
rote or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or otaer obliga
tion or made to or with the United States or any ftite, or for their
life refpeiSlively, -
Jf above twenty doll?™ and not exceeding ene hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, »5
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, -----
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty day*,
such bonds or notes fball be fubjeit to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforel'aid —viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dolla-rs, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dolhi s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 10
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes iflued by the banks now efUbliflrcd, or that may hereafter be eftab
lilhed within the United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as lhall agree to an annual compefition, of one per centum on t>ie annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders reJjwtlively, according tp
the following fcaie. « - - - *
On all notes not exceedisg fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - 0
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
Cn all notes above one hundred dpllars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - - 3
Any Protest or other Notarial adl, - - - 25
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfiou.or to obtain or fell War
rants fpr Land granted by the United States as bnunty for military fervicts
performed in the late war, - - 25
Anv Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for Jess than j
five hundred dollars. - - - - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
Far more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diftri& to another difiriil of the United States, got being jn the
fame State, ... - 10
If from the United States to any fpreign pprt or place, • 25
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effects, made in any
cafe required by law, ( except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods t»ken in virtue of any legal process by aqy officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, cf a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank, -
If above twenty dollars and sot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - - - 25
If under twenty dollars, at the ratectf ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The duties aforelaid will be c#Ue6led and received by the Supervisors, Infpeilors aud other Officer* '
qf Infpedtiop, in the fcveral Dillrids, Surveys and Divifipns of the United States, and by such other
pcrfons as (hall from t? time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrifts for
that purpose.
HI. /
The Supervisors of thefeveral Piftrii9s will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon r.s
may be ps amicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vdlurn, Parch
ment or Paper, with any cf the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thejaid duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the optiqn of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rate 9 proscribed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, Infpjftor, Officer of InfpcJUen,
or other parson appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids.
GIVEN under my Uaud, at Philadelphia
the day and year afiovvxentioncd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
Red Clover Seed of the beftquality.
Madeira wine,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine,
) And, Window Glass—all of which will be fold
on very reasonable terms, by
« John Craig,
march I wstf No. n, Dock Street.
NOTICE.
ALL persons have any demands against
th» estate of Willam Fleetwood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceafec!, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attelled ; and those whp are indebted
tp the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
January 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Messrs. Dob
-1 son, Campbell, Young &nd Okmkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
R 7*o ivbici is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT* of the opinions and prailiccof
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa&s and r«fle<SHons relative to
the Synotbus Ilieroidts, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much distress and 'mortality,
at different periods, in fevernl of the seaport
towns of th« United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE, .
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philoiophioa.l So
ciety. Feb. I—*3m§1 —*3m§
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. - Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Severn Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
1 and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor r«gifler
> ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. ll.and PatUrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any cf the States of the
. Union.
N.B. The bwfincfsof a Broker, irtbuyingand
fclliitg all kinds of .Public Stock and Securities,
difcotr.ting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
» Lands, Houies, &c, &c. will be duly attended to,
- by WM. BLACKBURN.
> November 15. §
Salisbury Estate.
T'HE Subscriber, propping to contrast hii busi
ness, offers this Estate lor Ijle, on moderate
terms. Oa it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Sorting Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of ttqncj ; alio a good Forge, all
in pc-rfcft repair, as are 311 the Water Works conncft
cd with these various branchts. The Air Furnace*
were lately built ior the purpose of calling Cannon
(or this State.—There are about two thoufond acre*
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable l.ar.d, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfatlnred there,
fully proves the excellency of-the metal, which u
luperior to apy in this country, and probably, eqaal
to any in the world ; for not one «f si *ty-nii.e gtma
lately made, some of the 34 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The fttu
ation is very eligible, particularly, for this branch o£
manufaflure, and a place of arms lying in the date
of Conncftieut. and only 30 mites from fcveral land «
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluing
from a large natural pond, very near \he Furnace,
and whUh may be converted into a variety of other
uleful purpofrs. The purcbafer can beaccommodat
ed with all the llock *nd utenfiJs, ir.d hav« pa.Tcllion
on or before the firfl of Juoe next, and preparation
may be madein the meantime for goin'ginto Blast im«
mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, 4c. See. For
terms, apply to Mr,. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Efq.one of the Reprefentativei
in Coogrefslor this State ; Mr, l) 4 vid Waterman, on
theprcmifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Doe. s. 3iwtf
NOTICE.
A Manufaßery of yello<w and delft ware,
Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been lately erefted at Tivpli, Red Hook. Landing,
outhe East Bank of Hrdfon's River, fta.e of New
York, where any article of various fort* and fhapea
may be executed, as well as carrhem stoves upon a r
new conftru&ion, that saves three fourth* of the fuel
commonly used in call iron stoves or open chymnies;
they a»r be fides v«ry wholcfome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a (killful hand to attend to the baking and
part of thefaid ware. Generous appoint*
ments will be given. Apply as above, or to
DAVID CROOKS, Efq,
No. 71 South Street, i
Feb. 19. eQd4w
Wanted, to Hire,
A 1 ar g c and convenient HOUSE, in or near
JTV. the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken lor a year, or oa
mere for a longer t«rm. Inquireof th» Printer.
OS. 17, eetf