of tjjc mmmakd Philadelphia
Bv Tohn Fenno. N°' iio ChePtmt Street.
Nvmssx 1718.J
For Boston,
COMMERCE,
k Waiftcpat, Majler
f®- a s cw
c ' Any freight that may offei
will be taken on very moderate terms , for whkh
or paffaga, apply to the Cr.ptain, or to
Isaac Homey, jun.
5, South A'.ter-llraet.
march 11. §, w
FOR SALE, *
Weft Ind an,
Philadelphia built, anc
fcedar, is coppered, (beathed and bolted, 3 y«ar
old, fails remarkably well, carries 15 a t6oo bar
rek—now iying at wharf, rfcady to
PETER BLIGHT.
j xxisrch 6. §lw
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
Jacob Di hart, Majler,
-Having trreat part of her cargo en
gaged —For freight apply to
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
Febcuary
Nicklin Ssf Griffith,
At their Store 011 VV alnat Strett Wharf—
HAV* FOR S4LI,
J! hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira VVme in p pet and hhds.
Teneriffe do. in p pea
OH Pr.TT rlo. in Mi «.
Imperial Tea in quartera and eighths ef cheftj
'Sail Canvafii, No. 1, to g
Dimities, (ringhams, and Moflinets, in pacia
ges fuitabie for the Weft India market
Nails aflorted
Black quart battles
Qneens ware in hhds. arid cratfcs
I'cllow ochre dry in casks ;
And at New- ork, on board the
lhip Diana, from Li'erpool, ex,pedled round
as soon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool dalt
Coals
Spinifh Brown 1
Venetian Red |
Purple Brown ! _ .
Patent White f PAINTS
White Lead
Red Lead
Cole thar vitriol
16' i bundles Sheithing paper
Seaming Twine
For Sale or Ctiarfir.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
N- B. ihe late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is bow chapped to
NTCKLIN & GRIFFITH.
January I. eodtf
t or Sale or Charter,
7 he Snow
mkm good hope
Will carry about noo barrels, and
is ready totake in a For terms
apply to
Pragers & Co. j
No. 151, South Seeond-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Kum, Madera, Lifoon, and TenerifFe wins.
November 7. dtf
7*o be Sold,
An elegant Country Seat, .* 1
Containing 6 acre» and 40 perches, with a neat '■
two story brick House and kitchen thereon, an ap- '
pie Orchard, tec lituate on the Irift trail lane, in 1
the townlhip of Moya«nenfin<j, about one mile from '
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made knows upon application at the office of
'the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance ttand unrivalled.
N»B. It tbe above place is not fold before the
loth inft. it will then be rented, lor the Summer
season only. , § march 5.
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re- b
mains of the (hip India's last cargo from
* Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fined particular Madeira wine,
of, the vintage of 1795. p
Mordecai Lewis.
February 19 d2w
Wanted,
An acfUre, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
and do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap- _
ply-—Enquire of the Printer. f
February 7 § *■
NOTICE
TS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an info!-
JL vent debtor, confined in the csmmon goal of ar
the County of Cape M*y in the flats of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges P
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said cbunty, praying that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainst his liberation, pursuant to an adl of the jj]
Legislature of this State,entitled "an aA for '
the relief of insolvent debtorj," paflcd the z6th f e |
day of January 1798—And the the said court <;i|
did appoint Monday the 26th day of March La
■ next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the by
Court Houf? in the Middle Precinft, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, »f which ~
his creditors are requeft«d to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN. I
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1795. ■»
Feb. 14 —tawjw ( C
" FOR SALE, ~
Several fonts of Types—half worn. wtl
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in ne J
»ood condition, and would arfwer the purpofs of p r ,
» country Printtr as well as new. lhc
Enquire of tbe Printer. j
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, MARCH 13, 1798.
Will be fold on Wednesday the
uft of March, a' 7 o'clock in the evening, at
the, Merchant*' Coffee Houf-, for csfli;
AGREE ;SLY to the fall will and testament of
r William Hey (ham, dece fd, and possession
given immediately, a valuable property in Arth
t)fcr Ureet, between 'I bird and Foutthßr eti, confiding
!ltc h' the House No. 107, with the Lot on rbjcli it
' lands, a Stable end other improvements. The
house is feet fror.t and coa:»ins tcrt good apart
ments. The lot is of tbe fame bread-has the house,
- c ' and 409 feet d ep, with a w.41 of water, and a
2L. very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps in !
compleat repair. The Sable Hands on the te r of
the lot, and will accommodate fo«r horses and a
carriage. This property enjoys a perpetual privi
lege of a 26 feet c#nrt and an alley g leet wide, ex
j tending to Cherry ftrect It* central pofltion, and
and the advantages it possesses with rifnedi to free ven
■ars ti lit ion, renders it well worthy ihr attention of
bar- any person wifcir.g to poflefs an eligible property
yto > n Philadelphia
' • Robert HejJham, or 1 A (fling
!L Francis Bowes Sayre,\ Executors.
CONNELLY b 1 Co. AutCrs.
N. B. The himle will be open two d.iy» previ
ous to t e (ale,fur the iafpe&mn of thoie who wifli
tqpiirthafe. m reH 't
r f (Jn i uelday, the 10th day of
ea- pri! next, at j o'clock in the evening, at
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
nf Philade'phia,
- **«• ex P Hfcti to rihlirfale, feventesn
! »V tradls or parcels of land situated in Point
township in the county of Northumberland, and
containing in the whole (i* thousand seven hun
dred and sixty four acrt» and three quarters,
with the usual allowance for toadi.
1 erms of fa'e, I - j of the purchase money on
the execution of the deed, in «bret months,
and 1 3 in fix month*, iii good, notes or other '
a ■ approved fecarity
CONNELLY fcf Co. AuS.
ca- . March 9 lawtn dtioa 1
Frefli I eas.
Ju/l Imported, in the Jhip Delaware, '
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
16 And For Sate s
id SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Coupling Houf .No 54, Chcfnut-ftreet, 1
AND BV si
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Comptmg Houle, Crooked illet whsrf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson tkin and Imperial TEAS. (
ALSO,
China Ware, aflVrted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and SattiiM, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and emmon Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
Ricks. r
They have alfe F»r Sale,
Ell wide Periians. Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
j Freach and Umbreilas, Sugai in boxes. S
A valuable Farm ready ftopked" *
V> 11 HJN miles from Philadelphia on the e:
well fide of Schuylkill, and. near the turnpike. j n
It is expeAed th tenant wil find fuitabie per-
fan* to take care of a dairy «nd attend market,
with all other necessary labour.
also, wanted,
A Gardener—a Single Man.
None need apply in either cafe, unless they can de
bring good recommendations.
Enquire at No. 30 Market-street.
5. § aw
Notice is hereby given,
s I of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the ho
United States, (landing in the name of the Subfcri- loi
ber, No. and dated July 11,1797 —the fame A
having been loft re ,
JOHN GRAHAM.
. - march 1 s6w
FOR SALT,
The House in Chefnut-ftreet,
NFX I door hut ons to the corner of Fifth-ftreet
t occupied hy the fubferiber. l iß eligible fixation
is well known—l he rooms are spacious and con
( venient, asd finifhed in ahandfome ilile—lt has
( a double Kitchen, and excellent Cellars, witl) an
I Jee House and rain water Cistern, and th re is a E
f Pump of good water near the kitchen door.
For atip'y to
i GARRETT COTTRINGER.
""h *• Siw_
TO LET,
And may le entered on immediately, \
A good dry «tore,
Three Aorits high, and in an excellent fland for '
bnfiaefs. Apply to t y (
Thomas JoJhua Fisher, No
march 1. j No 5, Dock-nreet. .1
Landing this day,
From on boar-d the schooner Two Friends, Dan
lei Crawley, Master,
80 hhds. And ) T • ta rr* »
ix pipes I Jamaica RUM, .
FOR SALE BV n
Geerge Latimer & Son.
nwember 9. j
Canal Lottery—NoTlT
VTTILL commence drawing Monday, theioth for!
111 ft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at lars
Seven DMar,, at W«. BI.ACKBURN's Lottery the
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Seeond-flreet-i Cap
T'ckets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at T m in tl
Dollar, where check books are kept-lor register- rah
ing and examining in these, the City of Wafhinjr- the
ton, No ll.and Pattstfon Lotteries, and informa- tific;
.°n where tickets maybe had in moft-ofthe Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the v
Union.
' f .f 4 ' B J} > ? h«Cnefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kind, of Public Stock and Securities,
difco.nt.ng Bill, and Note, of Hand, sale of N>
Landt, Houses, &e. &c. will be duly attended to, I^'
y x , , WM. BLACKBURN. |<
November ic. r
„ - L— _ S edtc
A PRINT, agaii
r HE P,in, » representing Ginkai W^, h ,nc- U ""
1- TON and bis hmily, all whole lengths in one d , Cm
g'oupc, will be ready for delivery bv the nf s he 1
March next. \ y ' " e '5 ,hot Com
An unhnilhed impreflion it to be seen at Mr M'EI ' n^r
(lore No. 7 oSouth Fourth Street. " >"<
The fuofcripiion wH close on the ioth of March of
next Sub-ciber* may depend on having the b»ft " fta
Print, at o»<gui» t * and * n halj. To n on-!ubfc,iber s , "all
the price will be iw© guinea*. r, -
February 19. rrm
By John Fenno, N°'
the I fr JUST RECEIVED,
a , j FKOM rO R T-A V-V».I NC I,
t ' And fOR SALE, by the SDBSCRICERS,
nt of ; 110 hhds. Coffee
J 6 rierces d«.
' r< -h- j 100 barrels do.
sting
XOO bags do
HO hoj(heads of Muscovado Sngar
The go barrels of do.
>art- 0 hogflieadi of MobfTe*
wife, 4 bale> of Cotton
P si " WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
j O . Penn- street.
Db . a march ii. §
rivi- —— J
a Landing from on board the fliip
ren . Tennessee, capt. Smith, from Hamburg,
;of ■ A,ld FOR SaLK by the Subscribers,
erry pieces Quadruples Silefias
400 do. Platillas
g ioc do Creas
3rs. Ji do. do. ali Morlaix
lev do. Dowlas
~T j _ 20 do. red striped A rahias
ri (], 20 to. blue Ouingas
f too dozen bordertd Handkerchiefs
Eric & Lewis Bollmann,
'23, South Third'llreet.
at ALSO, ON HAND,
lily A cafe of printed Muflinsand Calicoes
march 12. §Bt
Hibernian Society.
ind A Special meeting of the Hibernian Society
jn _ - * for the Relief of Emigrants from Ireland,
, rs will be held at Mr M'Shane's, Third-street, on
' Friday next, the 16th iutl. at 7 o'clock in the c
on » eni °g- '
, 1 he Anmverfary Meeting of the Society, will
' be held at the lame place on Saturday the 17th inft.
at one o'clock r. u
Dinner will be on iln table at half after three.
Those who intend to dine with the Society, are
rcqui ft.d to fend their names to Mr. M'Shane, on
or before Friday next.
MATTHEW CAREY, Secretary.
march t2.
e, The Creditors of the late Mr.
John Gould
Are requested to meet at the house of WiU
;tj luftiSmith, Walnut near Front street, rn Thurf
dty the 16th inft at 6 o'clock in the evening.
March 11. 4t ■
* Virginia Lands. '
g -
On Tuesday the 20th inft. will be fold for
Cash, by Public Auflion, at the Mtr- ,
, n chant'* CofiFee-Ho*fe, at 7 o'clock in
Sl the evening, \ '
THE following hodiea of Laod in the State
of Virginia, viz.
«, 13,600 Acre* fituite on the water* of Big
s. Steer Creek.
16,998 Acres so the water* of the Little Ken-
P VntlifWltht "Tftfark of the Monongahrla.
l » ) Particular descriptions of the LanaiTTnXaTT 1
c j examination of the titles may be had by apply
ing to *
' t Footman Co. Audioneers.
March 12. dtiom
A Wet Nurse wanted,
A healthy Woman, who can be well recommen
' deJ - Apply at this Office.
m-Tch 11.
A Garden to be let,
a term of years, lituate about a mile from
~ t'; 4 Court-house, contains ahout two sores of
land, it a high flat* of cultivation. A large green
: house, is ereiled en the prcmife*, about forty feet
- long, with a lodging room, and feed loft above.
• A cotiuderaMe quaniiry of kitchen article*, very
regularly dilpofed of on the spot.
P-nquire at j 2, South Second street.
march 12. , , cou ~
St. Croix Sugars. ,
26 hoglheads best ST. CKOIX SUGAR, ■*-
For SAtE BY t0
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Frl) 9 , .'mikwtf ,
FOR SALE, th
By WHARION LEWIS, lei
No 115 South Front Street. co
A quantity of Tanner's Oil, aH
4th proof Jamaica Rum, 7 cnt ; t l cc | t0 va
Ift and 2d proof Brandy, J drawback. Fr
Madeira Wine, Sll
Juniper Berries, &c. &g. lac
Ffb - 9- _ eodtf
OVAL BOTTLES. _
half gallon in crates —andaquantif
tyof Ciaret Bottles of a right size—For falc at
No 13, Church Alley. JOHN DOKSEY. -r
- Januar y 11 3taw6w. 1
For sale,
400 barrels BEEF.
Enquire of
George Pennoelt, or \
Gid. Hill Wellt. ~
march 8 - eotf
NOTICE.
1 - At
VyHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shu- r
tT, of Oited Cottage, in the County of C , U
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spin/ler, or her assigns £ 'l
for two thousand five hundred and City-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, m the deferred stock of
the Uwited States, was loft in the ship P.ggy
Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London '
"fc cu'S* 1 I - 796 ' The lutfcn,ier . said Han- \
nah Shellj, mends to apply to the Treasury of {
the United States, lor a renewal of the said Cer
tificate. a m
HANNAH SHELLY. J,
Fsb - iaw6w. r
~ FOK SALE, at T-
Wm. Young's Book Store, J
R D T of , the Committee of the House of
IV Representatives o( t! e United States, appoint! r
re*. a " d re E2 rt Articl " of Jmpeachra-nt A
against WIIXI KM BLOUN P, a Senator oTthl n
j Stat ". of high crime, and mis n
th\Tw7of B R V DrfnEnCe a re(oiu ' io » of D
the , oufs of Representatives, authorizing the said r!
Committee to fit during the rectfi of Congref, and n
inftrufling them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
ii 1° d ' fcev "' thl ' v ' hole ««ur7and 5 " t
of the offence whereof the laid William ni
" Hands impcache... and who Je thl: i"r j A
" affociatestherein." . arties and f ron
"tz&z ° f "" 2S
S U
119 Chefmt Street.
LANDING,
AND FOR SAL 8,
The Cargo of the ship Fair American,
Sains. Buike, master, from Aux-Caye.* now ly
ing at Bill's whiuT,
consu f ino or
Molaftes, Coffee, Sugar and Dye
Wood,
Apply to
ISAAC HARVEY, jvn.
5, South Water •ft reet. i
3 TOO. 6.
ct § The Com million rs j
~ carrying into th- TWENTY-FIRST
hip X Articleof the Treaty of Friendlbip, Limits,and
Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty andrs-
United State* of Am.Hca, hereby giveinforijiatioti
~ to all persons therein concerned—l hat m order
to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
esfullained by the Citiaens of the United States, in
coniequence of their Veffe!* nd Cargoes having
been taken by the Suhjedts of His Catholic Majes
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc.-,
that they are ready t» receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily) *|!
complaints and applications authorized by the said
Article, during eighteen months, from the day
t. of the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine allfuch persons as c«me btfore them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the com laint* in
!t qucftion, and also tp receive in evidence, all wru
ten testimony, authentjeattd in such manner as
they foal! think proper to require or admit,
iety By Order of the Commijjto ntrs^
m d, PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Commijfivncrs Ojfiic, No. 109, Mulberry-
e «* /m(, May iph, 179?.
Feb, SB, '<jt— r jva
Vill */ Those Printer! in the fever at Statin 11 ho pulli/b
---uft. eJ the übwe advertisement letjl Spring, are requeued to
rc-publijb it one month, andfend their metmnU to P. L.
are HP HE Subscriber intorms those
on JL to whom he is indebted, thai a person will
attend every day, Sundays excepted, until the ift
of April next, from the hours of 10 o'clock in the ;
mofning till 1 o'clock in th« afternoon, at the house 1
formerly occupied by him in Chefnnt-ftreet, for I
i. the purpo.'e of Ihewing all bocke, papers and let. '
ters regarding his pall commercial tranfii9ions to I
fiith of his creditors as may think proper to attend
and examine them.
rf " JAMES GREENLEAF.
march 1. eoti A J
~ For Sale,
By Elliston John Perot,
or Mb- 4 1 1 North IVaber Street,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipe* and
r- quart r calks, 4 years old and £t for immediate use.
ID Inferior da.
A few bales Allibai Coffe*
CC Bandanna Handkerchiefi
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 9
• A few bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel of Soal Leather, aad
j. A tew boxes of China,
- march 3 »uicf4V
«r -n,» i
J® n^B » from Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
Sm } ° ni>e Vi " ra^ n S ffi* 1 79*.
ALSO,
WHITE WINE, of the vintage of xyoo
FOR SALF JBT y
PHILIPS, CRAMOND (if Co.
* _ "P'rch 7. 5
a nankeens. • _
" Ten thousand pieces Nankeens, «
. FOR! SALE on a libera credit, by
r SAMUEL HAYS,
No. i*y, Chtfuat Street.
m " :h 7 f d6t ]
To be Sold, c<
A BRICK HOUSE, together with the Lot
±T XT e! ,° k e 'wging, the city of Burling- H '
ton, New-Jcrfey. The house has three room,
Mow, and three chambers in the upper ftorr. Ct
The kitchen adjoining is a frame buil uig. The M
Lot has a front of 72 f ee t on Pearl street, and M
the fame front on the river Delaware. The Gi
length of the Lot is about 2jo feet—The hpafe G «
"H'Tl V Ve, " T P lealil " profpefl of the river. Ci
and of the Borough ofßriftol, on the Pennfyl- p i>
vania wore. Immediate possession may be had. Sa
tor further particulars, inquire of Mr. John Gl
?>ims, next door below the City Tavern in Phi- Ml
lad.lphia, orthefubferiberin Burlington.
. THOMSON NEALE.
Burlington, march 1. *eo,hw
1 TO LET,
And poffeffi«n given the ift April next, Of
1 heHoule No. 258 High-street, cor
At present occupied by P. Btrrn? £fq Mj
Applyte ' 1
Edward Shoemaker, g "
February 24 " 7> H ' gh ~
eod3w
Prison Manufactory.
. V r> FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County oi Philadel- E
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to iody s
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks a
Oakum and chipped Logwcod
Shoemakers and SaJlers Thread
AUb-Sawed Marbie. suitable for currier', tables f
tomb and hea_ ttoncs, hearths, chimney pieces'
platforms, slabs, facia, window liea< s (ill, c '
wh,ch . m z r he had on reasonable terms, J
a moS price d °" e Prison "
Orders from adlllance, diredled to Daniel Tho
"K? Wlll be i TN
mthom A 1
James C. y Samud VV. Filher,
, AT THEIR STORE, '
Ne-pij, corner of A*ch and Front street. ftire
HAre roK s/tic, 0 f t ]
A°few W0^ fted , Hof, «y «' trunks, affored - '» to
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel n.
I* ofuttyromaHHandkercMe!, Eng,
Ditto Pulhcat (ilkditto euia
d Z S rr> aud Ma4rif »
Bengr.l black Taffetics
4000 pieces Nankeens, and And
Few chefls best Hyson Tea C '
froffTkv 6° ! ,OXtS y CCI I ondon Wi <l«W G'-f,,
T.
Not- B5
jtawtf i u
' I -I HE term of Co-partner/hip between the
JL fcribers, trading under the firm c->f John I
kr, jun. and Co. expiret. this day, and by mui
[Can, cenfent wi!<j -not be renewed- The debts »nd <
.v 1/- ctrusof ihc lame will be fettled by John Mi]
Jun. to whom alHhofe indebted to the parmerft
are earnsftly requefled to make payment to, v.
) ve out dejay.
7 JOHN MILLER, Jtm.
ALEXANDER J. MILLE
"• FeSl ujry $r
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, Fr<
Calcutta,
RST AND r °* SAL KBY THE SUBSCRIBER,
, and
i6co bags prime Sugar,
dt«* 800. do. Ginger
ition 30 bales low priced piece Goods.
; rd Ji r f°b n Miller, Jun.
loss " march , €
9, in . . *
ving FOR bALE, BY
1 ; John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chifnut Itrcet,
) *1! A quantity BENGAL GOODJ
'"'d AMON«ST WHIC4 A**
<l»Jr Cnrrahs M meadics
to Baftas Sannas
Guucnai l ands Cofiaes
8 m Guaaie* Emertics
'ft- Blue Cloths Calicoes
ai Palanii oors Rom all Handkerchiefi
A mongll them are a great proportion of the m
nufa&ures of Pa'»a.
Britllh Dry Goods,
ALIO,
j Ftfrty puncheons of high proof Fum.
ijFebruary 19 .
Jto Alex. J. Miller & James Davis y
Having entered into partuerfbip under the firm <
ife Alexander J. Miller Co.
vi\l TNFORM their friends in town and country, tha
ift 1 th; y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store
the at No. 64, South Front S/reet, Philadelphia ; wher
nf c they now have, and intend kceeping n general ai
for fojtment of India, German, lrjb y French and Bri
et. Mannfadtures for sale, on advantageous tcrmc
to for cash or aihort creoit.
nd February 19 s t f
Landing
From on board the Snonu Maria, from Coptn
hagen,
A few Tons Russia Clean Hemp
r, pieces Ravens Dm k
250 pieces Russia Sheeting
nd 200 bolts Ruflia Duck, and
fe. A quantity of Swedes Iron
For Sate by
JOSEPH ANTHONY fcf C*
IVbo have on Handy
ill and ad proof Bourdejux Brandy
4th procf Spaniih ditto
New-England Rum
London Particular} .. , .
an H j f Madeira Wine in Pipai
London Market J * B<l l uarter Calkl.
' "v/iu crarernr carts
Coffee just arrived
'• Best Boflon Beet in hirr-'i - : -•-
j MackrelTTn do.
' Halifax Salmon in do.
A small tnvoice of Rhode-Island Cheese
Sperraaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. »> ». Boflon Sail Duck
Huflia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glafe Ware.
M » rch *• dtw
FOR SALE,
'» BV ™ E No. ,1, Penn-flreet,
i r f S° °f the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal
Com/ijlimg of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices.
Coffae, Punjum Cloth,
t £" uh ' Gu?zey do.
; SSs ' .
. Chmtz and Calicoes Mulmula
. Mamoodys Checks
i M*haragonge» Patna Hkft.
. Omghams M«lmu do.
. Guzzena, Bandannoe.
• Siflerfoy
. P'nufcoes Ch Romah
•
1 SSpX';.
*OO tons SUGAR
9®,000 lb. PEPPER.
Wtilings & Frantis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to falc at that
commodious ft ore the north well corner of
Market and Fourth-rtreets.
Also—A few Bales of Madraft Hkf*. e f ele
gant patterns and beffc colours
February 8. d{f
Ross y simson" *
haye for sale,
a few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, C RUM.
and Eesgal J
300 calks RICE, ?nd
a parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
UCI ' 27 ' j
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
I wr , No - llf Walnut-street
NFORMS tljofte who wifl) to recur to thf « 1
means of becominj perfefl in the Frerch 1°"
guage.that he ha» j u (l o»ened hi 1 .
filling of upwards of i s oo volumes A*ba1 C? "f*
sr'n.tss; isssti
« - 'T wVSS".
n. B. All translations from and into the Fr»-n^
Engliih and Spnid, Lan w ,, «e a T f \ f k
curacy and difoatch. C Wlth ac-
' NOV. I rf .
, 7¥ Publi/hed,
And to be had of Meffi s. Dofefon r* n n
Cary, and the other pHcipaf
city.pnee one dollar,'twrnty-fln cemi ,' a
T-. VieW j,? f the ""gin ofThJ
inbes and Nations of America
SMITH BARTON, u.^.*
'it
\\ r OLUME Xlli.Xfte <&wttu __
i
PHILADELPHIA, there
m beyo
TUESDAY EVENING, Mjzch i). C ape
. ■ ness.
For the Gazette of the United States. city
_ guilt
MR. tENNO, . it is
A number of edays h»ve lately made then' an( j ,
inpearanee under the fignatur# of an, American o jf en
Merchant. The strain in wkich they are writ
un defigniten the author 11 plainly a» thcujb
kehJfd proclaimed hii »ame, and he may apain
be seen ufinjf his endeavour*, to procure a sur
render of our national righis, and proflration or
®ur national honour, to the insolent an ! pfr
fidiout ambition of » foreign foe. Alwayi de- q
(irons to undermine the independence *f nt»
country, he i« earsleft i« whose Service he be- t
eoniesthe pioneir. At on« time the fervilc
jnirion of Great-Britain ; at another the baier
adulator of France- Owce we have already
beheld him atfually guiding an enemy to deval- A
tation and plunder ;he may now be seen in the a n<
no less honourable office- of attempting by his tedu
writings to incrcafe the disunion of a people, .
whose great, whofc only Veal misfurtun* is their
want of unanimity. Fort unately, h-owever,his ta- 3
lints do not enable him to effefl his views_ Hn vern
works are read but by few, ainl by those few C
they will be branded with the infamy #f the po- u poi
Utieal charafler of th\ author. t
I have looked at one of his papers and have t(j g
colletfed from it, that his objefl i« to prove,
that as Great-Britain began the fvfiem of law- J
left, agpreffion upon therightsof neutral., France
is now juftifiable in carrying it on, and that ledg
therefore it would be tinjuft and impolitic in the a nd
United States to fuffer their merchant vcffels to t ; ye
arm. . . for 1
The idea is in itfelf so frivolous is to render / .
it unworthy al notice; but it derivt» an artificial
importance from being the constant instrument
of deception upon the ignorant and unwary; by nqu
the faction which has disturbed the peace and Ii
deilroyed the prefperity of our cetlntry. fliou
It is not true that Great-Britain firft . in » ad< -® indei
the rights of neutral nat ons, although it thould
be admi'ted (he »as the firft whef made any con
iiderable aggrefliens upon our cotimerce _ On
the third of November, 1)91, France passed a i 2
decree which was is fliameful a violation of rhe Am
rights of every independent dition ai the world j 0 y e
had ever before witnefiid. By that decree (fie reig
declared that whenever the ftjndard of infur- tn > ni
reflion should be unfiirled by any people, Ihe
would lend them all the affifH.ice in her power
■\V hat refpeQ (he had for the rights of neutral £
f;ver':ii;n» rriay be here difcovertd She eftab- erte
ii(h; d forjierfelf in their territories the influence and
which arifts (rem a well grounded hope of pro we J]
tea ion, and from the prol'peift of fucccefs The t j, al
pftltry fht would have obftrved towa-ds anyj j
which had accepted of her proffers may »
bejudgedof by her fubfcquent condufl. Vhe
ruin of hoHand, the groans of Belgium, and the » flv
hoilowmnrmuringsof partitioned Venice would pop
leave no room fo't doubt or Hefiution crat
Her condlifl towards Hdlland is another I eon
■r»of of her contempt fur neutral rights, and is J em
anoO.er proof that whenever viftorious, (he is .
• •nentav.d unjust. When Dumourier made
hi, inroid into the B■- Ipic provinces, Holland j m y
i.ad Sis>«d in all refpeils a part the mod mofttn- I
r.vo to Fran. e. -No fooaer, however, were the gen
Auft-ian Netherlands under the dominion of the I ten
French amis, than the Scheldt was demanded,
Without entering into an examination whether I
• sst. u*. "■
lnoport, depended upon it ; and that wheft it |
was dilputed by thf Emperor Jofephifhe paid
for it: n immeufe price, in order to maintain that
nfacc to which (he had always been so fondly
ittaehed. If it be said that at lead, at that time, j
a„d for l'ome time afterwards, we had no rea- pl<
son to complain of any immediate-violation ot mt
our rights, I anfwerthat France had then a dit- an
ferent game to V ;lay towards oUr country. It so ,
was then her aim to subdue us not by open v,o em
lence, but by inftdious artifice; the minds o[
our people were to be fedilced, and their morals *
corrupted by Mr. Genet's machinations. We eu
were to be lo»thed and ruined by her profeffions an
of refpefl and regard, not by piratical depreda- an
tions upon our commerce and a faiftion was 1 m
to be here so firmly implanted that our govern- 1 jj
Blent should be incapacitated from repelling any I w
future aggreffioi.- To our misery we kuow I
fliebas but too well fucceedtd. _ , I ,
But it is said, our umenefs in lubmitting to I 01
Britifii injuries, is the true and just cause of the j w
treatment *t receive from the rulers of France. I a
The aflertion has been so often, so ably, and so I _
fully refuted, that fcarcelya new idea can be K
broaehe J. But if this be really the cafe, whence o|
dors it preceedth.t the other neutral nation* are I .
now placed in the fame predicament with our- I '
selves ? The magnanimous firannefs of D«n- I e<
m»rk and Sweden have constantly been extol- 01
led to the Ikies. Their condufl has been held I C ;
up as a glnriovs example which ouyht to hart I ; t
been imifited and profiled by. They did arm ;
they entered into no treaty ; they never yielat- n
ed the pretended modern law, nor is it said that j
thev hive done so ; yet they are include in the j -
late' decree. The argument is almost too abferd I v
any longer to be dwelt upon on—l lhall, how- I I
aver, in a future paper endeavour still farther j e
to confute it. MJLO. I „
FRENCH (ANTE-TREATY) SPOLIATION.
BOSTON, February 5. 1794, 11
AT*. Rusifii, *
AMONG the various injlances ofAlger in fm,
committed by the French againjl the perfom and ,
property of our fellow ciiir.ens, the capture of a
schooner belonging to Mejfrs jfony C' rl/s arid
Co. of Providence, ought not to be forgot, j '
This veffelfold her cargo at Barbadoes, and loa- '
ded I*l for Providence with the proceeds ; but in '
her pajpjgefht met a French privateer, the Capt. '
of which compelled the mafier of the schooner to
go on board his vejel with all his papers, which
'he had nofooncr pojfejion of than he tore them to J
pieces and threw them overboard; after this da
ring outrage,heordtredthefcboon.i
where he imfrifemed the mafier, mate and crew,
and in 4 few days a mock trial was had, the
result of which was, that not only the cargo, but '
the vessel edfo, was condemned and fold.
Providence, "Jan. 20, 1794-
Ml. ftNKO,
I Know not another city in the world in
which such a nuisance would be fnffered, as
that which puts almost in a torture every
person who passe* the square between 12th
and 13th street*, on Market street. It has
nearly ftifled the hosts of pafle igers for 5
days past—they put their handkerchief* to
their faces, and ride or run * faft as pof-
fibß» UH»«V bcvoad the extent of the h° ''"
"stench, issuing from hrg% parcel* of the mo V.ru
offenfive and putjid masies fcatteie ov
fottr Sdfqiiare rods of ground ; and it
there be a wind from call or weft, it reaches ereu
beyond the poore rof a person on foot to el- /«
cape it, until hebeaves with a dtath like fie y
nefs. Tj it within the jurifdi&ion of the
city police ? If so, the Corporation are vm
e „ilty of a molt unpareHelled negligence— Cian
his fufficient to breed a tellow fbjb*, h'tn
and were the authors, or tolerater. of the t*e j
offence only to fall by its fatal miafmatea, J J" m '
do r.ot kr.ow who ought t° regrettlic e
wt. _astranger.
From the Columbian CbntikeL. Hun
CUCf
The PURSE STRINGS /—No. I, '*?.
Or an EXAMINATION ,f the *>U ALARMING utU.-f! ■
w C'ong»ms, to CONCINTRATI all power '"V
mite House «/Re ruisaNTA r.v * s. Vlty
crei
riLLOtr cirizFirs, _ . ~
AN attempt has been made m two in- .
stances, to undermine our constitution, to ' y
reduce us again to a (late of revolution, or ™ |
in the language of Judge Craik, to place °J '
a " Check mate" upon the operations of go
vernment. , . . . '
One clause in the constitution is icized
upon by revolutionary hands, and is declar-
ed to be paramount, and to be competent
to annihilate every other power and authori
ty delegated in that sacred inftrumi'nt.
The right to originate Money Bills is al-
ledged to dc the just authority to deftray
and defeat etery executive and every legilla-
tive aft. We are indebted to a Frenchman
for this fuMimation of power. —Albert Gal-
latin, in the year 1795, discovered this new
and mouftroul property* attached to the . .
hqufe of reprefentives. of j
It is extremely natural tliat a Frenchman .
(hould have originated the thought—lt is
indeed a revolutionary movement, but it can-
not in this country be iuftified by the pre
-- • ■ rr a <
text ot imperious nccejjtty.
Every honest man, every admirer of the c °
American constitution, every citizen who
loves his own country-better than any so- S~
reign nation, inuft wifti to fee this new doc
trine difcufftd and exploded. The subtlety, " 5
the sophism, the logic, and the deceptive 1/1
eloquence of the oppofkion, have been ex
■ erted in eongrefs, to force down this novel 0
and dangerous principle. Many honest and
well meaning men, who love liberty better "
: j than they nnderftarid the means of securing °
M it, have been carried down the tide of pop- .
. ular prejudice. They have ranged them- '*
; I selves 011 the fide that they falfely term the c
i I popular branch, in opposition to the arifto- £
cratic members of the government.—To
r I combat these prejudices— to„ remove these ra
* I errors—to demon (Irate the absurdity, and
' c I the danger of Gallatin's doctrine, (hall be P
I I my endeavor. '
In the difeullion, I (hall be candid and in- 0
e I genuous ; but I (hall be compelled to ex» ®
e I tend my «ffays to three or four numbers te
dious perhaps to men of science and refiec
□ 1
"BfTne great body of my tellow citi-
o 1 zens, for whom they are especially designed. p
; 1 I (hall lay down a series of axioms, p
lc j which I am prepared to establish, and which
it 1 fcall l«oJ mind by a regular climax, to ,
,c | I perfeft conviftion.
j" I The objeft and the end of every govern-
I m«nt, ought to be the happinefj of the peo- j.
a- J pie. This happiness is secured by the un-
of molested exercise of the rights of person
if- I and property. Liberty coniifts not in the
It I power to do what toe thoofe, but in the fe-
I ettrt enjoyment of what we possess. Ex- j
ils j P f rience and refined reasoning have confpir-
ed to prove, that every limple, unchecked
ns I and unbalanced government is a despotism, j
ia- I and of necessity, that every free government
' 4S I must be in a canfiderable degree, complex, j
I By a simple government, we mean, one in
n y I which the whole power reJides in one body.
I whether it consist of one, or of a few, or [
t0 los many persons. It is wholly immaterial, '
he I whether it be called, an empire, a kingdom, .
ce. I a principality, a republic, or a democracy -
1° I —or whether it be governed by a Doge, a '
be I King, an Emperor, a Sultan, a Committee
I of Safety, a Cpnvention, or a Rump Par
ur. I liament—it if still a despotism—it is uncheck
m-1 ed—it is uncontroled ; —th« more numer
al- I ous the assembly, the more dangerous, be
eld I cause the less responsibility ; —it will inev
iTe I itably draw all power into its fangs—it will
: "' t ' bring all authnrity into its vortex—it dreads
hat I no P un 'st lment » because it is above control
,h e I —lt stars no censure, because (hame is di
nrd vided and disgrace is destroyed by numbers.
jw- I It forces its way like a wedge, the ftrong
her 1 eft, at the fame time the ftmplejl powfer in
'• J mechanic*. In (hort, it emfcracts the. whole
OjV physical force of focicty, and tyrannizes
over the very power which contributes to
its energy. LIVY.
From a Connecticut Paper.
I wifli the wir in Europe to continue one year more.
ail j THUSJayjDicl the debtor, and Jatk the
-got. The former hopes, by the continuance
loa'■ "f w ' ar ' ,o f rce him/elf from the embarrajment
a ton °f ier hopes to incrtafe his quan
'apt. <"J °f "ft'/'ft l wr ""d gold.
rr (n But let us examine the impart of this tuifh.
ihich continuance of -war implies the evil con
;m to • a " J 't h not to be cxpeSed,
r da- t^at war P- uro pe "will be continuedfor
j. u , t another year at less expence than fifty, or onehun
rew', drti th, "S and hves. If, theu, thefefelj/hfouls
I, the avt '^" r w'fitfuch a number of mortals,muft,
| but P r,hah h' an untimely manner, leave the land
of the Rv.ng. Some if them injlantaneoufly drop
ping into eternity f others, dying with lingering
and excruciating torments; many of themvaluable
charaSers, and others altogether unprepared.
Id in This dt/rußion will lilely produce a million of
[l, as mourners. Many loving, and lovely wives
Tcr y "siM become disconsolate widows. Parents will
12th bereaved of thar promifing,fons tod many
t has 'bad™ he left Mplfs orphans.
: or 5 There must atfo be a nukhude wounded, mu
tt to a "d mangled, and vast numbers of fami
pof- rtlluc td ttajlate of wrctdednefs, obliged to
. . 7 J /»" J
leave lbi> to 91. v-j "" cil 91
i f* rfin can It * *>* * '
canconthL »,:kn, a
ereu,',wit heutprodve'trigfuch a#> uUttvdcofdtflre-J- fcteb
faxftenrs asZudd b, fufficient tofboclhunug J*P
ity. Vet how many unfitting fouls, Ite D.
and fact, are wifl>i"g for the continual of
■war? Would not any one of theft th ■"ibis fiyf- fa ||,
cian a monflror, unfit to In,r,Jboutd h' ivifh the ,
A,m he to M for fix month, that he might have rcn d
fame relentnefs foul can wx/b * cM.nce of ,t»
war, -which maj, probably, produce, m c.f
ffent multitudes, the pains of broken bones, f,
the perns of fore btreaicnMs, the- pains of
hunvtr and diOraaicn, the pains of death, and
the pains of he'd, 7Loft who thus ieSre
the continuance of war, tn tffcS, wi/h for teas -
of Hood, and deeps of hu.non woe, upon winch
theyej/if-i 'ilto a pnjiuble marict! 0 <hi depra
vity of the human heart I How evident tl-stjucj> on >
creatures mufi It born again, or never fee the eßt
iinvdom of God! And htto suitable, that Juch eva
character's Jhoutd be forever cxchtfUd that bene- ]
volentforitiy, in which public felici'y isthefourcc at ;<
of individual happiness ! ol
the
COMMUNICATION. pit
propenfity which has often been ta ],
noticed, of assigning Jeep caules for events aa(
where obvious ones appear, is* remarkably j f en
confpicuom in the pr/)duftion signed a
republished frotr. a New-York , f or
paper in Porcupine's Gazetteofthe 21 ft inlt.
Those who read this Gazette will have J
observed i fort of amicable contest between J
the Editor and the' Frenchman upon the Jof
merita of their re'fpe£tive nations. In this | vf i
difcuflion, the Frenchman was underflood j ms
to fay, that there exifteda Britirti faiftion iB I nne
this-country, which gave a&ivity to every I [hi
other : —But he rejeft* tbie imputation, fl a
and affcrtt, that his meaning wa«, that the of
fa&iori alluded to, cxifted in France ; that in;
it was a&ive in promoting the revolution m<
and ft ill rends in pieces that unfortunate gr
country. . I P r
Now, who but one of the unthinking vul- j
' gar, of the F*-woraen, who afcribcd to
the aristocrats the scarcity of bread in Pa
ris, ar a man ambitious of being vastly pro- |
! found, could think of assigning this, as ai
principal cause of the revolution ! Pitt no 1
\ doubt, and the whole of the British Cabi
] I net, were not displeased at feeing the em-1
I ban affment of a rival power, which had j
j lonjj been looked upon as a natural enemy; t
' bat t# lay thatthey fomented the revolution c '
is too absurd to be believed. Mr. Burke, j"'
[ however, mult have disapproved of this po- )
I licy, nor can I think Mr. Pitt so {hallow a 1
statesman as to assist in kindling a conflag-
I ration which was to set fire to the four cor- j
j ners of Europe. We have, indeed, heard of "
| physicians propagating infe6tions where I
E I '.heir own carcases were secure, but what I £
I fort of a man mult he be who could excite I e
' a pestilence which threatened univerfai de- 0
* I ftruAion ? But if Pitt really aided In over-I ''
I turning the hi-.*if* for 1 3
(the mifchief-but I can no more persuade a
j' myfelt, that he had the influence to convert , c
1 Frenchmen into Cannibals, Atheists and |
£ Philosophers, than that the Duke de Choi- J
ftul effefted the American revolution. No,'; I
0 their Robefpierres, their Du Ponti and their
Condorcets, are all their own, and the glo
ry or infamy of their revolution is exclu- I .
S * fively Gallic. But even admitting the mon- J J
ftrous position of the Britifti minister aiding 1
the revolution, and that the Foxes and 1
' e Greys, the Priestley* and the Paines, were '
but the dupes of his defiglw, who can be-1
X " lieve, that he is not by this time heartily
j sick of his folly, instead of being yet employ- '
I ed in encreafing a flame which finds ample I
3a * I fuel in every quarter ef the globe ?
nt But I never yet could understand the po
*" I litics of a Frenchman —Democrat, or I
ln Ariftoerat, he is equally unintelligible. He
y* is only steady in his hatred to the Englilh
1 r I and all their derivatives ; and never con- j
1 ' I verftd with one of them, who, on the sub- i
m ' I jeA of politics, had not an admirable talent
of bewildering himfelf in absurdities. In
3 | searching for causes, they are in the habit
eC los diving to* deep. Look,'for inftance,at the
intercepted letter of the profoundly saga
" I cious Jof. Fauchet.
IZ If « iii faA, there is a Br'tifh fa&ion now |
" at work in Franse, it mull be to restore the |
1 old order of things, and who would not sup-
pofe this was what the French Gentleman
rol I wantec ' • y et *°nnplaina of this fac
j. j tion. The Quakers profefs non-refilling
principles, but Frenchmen really polTtfs
them ; and power being so extremely sacred
'? among thtM, is some apology for human
nature, in the great facrifices tb.y make to
1 obtain, and to preserve it. \_Harrifb.Pi<p.'\
l ° L NEW-YORK, March io.
Extraft of a Utter from Jeremie,
" A grrni fracas took p!a€e lately among
I our officers ; and a very severe judgment was
I ifiued.
ore " I " Mr. Delbrcfles, lieutenant-colonel of the
the j legion of prince Edward, and commander of an
ince out-poft near Les Irois, was ordered for his fer
lent I v ' ce by Mr. Hallem, lieutenant-colonel of the
tan- I?th re B' mcn, i commandant ofthediSria by
seniority. Probably the orders were given in a
. . j harsh manner, which displeased Mr. DelbrolTes;
'if*- I for, he went so far aa to llrike the commandant
eon- with a whip. Mr. Hallem drew his labre im
3ed, I mediately, and cut the aggreflor.
'for 1 " Colonel Spencer, who command? at Jere
bun- mis » being imormed of the fafl, ordered the
r ouls con,cn ding parties to be arrested. Several offi
tu'ft j cers f,lid . ,e S' on » discontented with the ar-
I 'heir chief, resigned their commiflions,
tana wluch were accepted. Then col. Spencer or
rop- dercd them ts be carried to Cape-Nicholas
ring J Mole, as well as lieut. cols. Hallem and DfljrofT
table es, in order to be tried by a court-martial— i
I red. '|| e being Severely wounded, could not
mof lhenhc embarked—but hat since eone.
nJs T , h , l , c l , ; urt - n,lrt '' i l have acquitted lieutenant
colonel Hallem, and lentenced lieut. col De
krtf" \° beheaded ! the resigning effi.-er,
tany to be wholly expelled, after three of them be
ing present at the execution. In the r*ean
mu- ««ne, the court-martial recommends to the
ami- V n ? s benevolence, the officer feinenced to
<dto dc : < t, I ';.
it is not unworthy of remptl, that the Cos-
i„ 'j ,K *»3 tnewber* :he cwu- I csn'i
ur-i'S all rrenthmcn, tnd the acqu.t- arc ,
officer » r.atiTC of The
teu omcer .« January 3 jtt, i TO?-
» p S. Col Cc'oitt R-'vi jj,
latelv fought a duel at rUI
d, Pitray ; they n ,
I'j. limi'i, and there fire<Vat fic.»fc<ttjJrrtUw
c-unt vai forcefslul,and !n,ar,U g of ;
d/ a ,l He *i< anefWemed nffi cr. W i never
falls io ruch a contetl, we have even to Umcnt l
h loss of
r render more ufeful to bis country. Bot the
point of honour -lway«
it is {and muff he si) h»» rtoft
f^TELL&ENCE. f C ''
yoi
EatrajJ of a, letter from pcu. Hstry to the i)jn
Executive Direcl'iry. reti
~ Head s, Menlt, 10. h - r<j .j
A ivofe, Jatiu •ry 3; . ! era
The troops of the republic arc in poSLHi- I
on of Mentz, as also Fort Caflcl, wi.ic'n they
entered this morning. The emperor's troopo ol
evacuated these places yelleidiiy. , jm
I gave them 24 houis for an entire evacu
at ion, and poGeffcd myfelf in -confecweace, bu
of two gates, one of the town of f/ientz, kr<
the other of Port Caffel; but all is now com- I cx ,
plttely evacuated, confiiting of eight bat
talions towards Ulm, pa'Hing by Heideihurg ec ]
and Heilfbroom, the reft paffn.g by Achi.t- j th(
j fenburg, on their way tc Bohemia. Ihe j
different troops of the circles took the roat , y t
1 for their refpeftive countries. . n3
BOURDEAUX, Jan. 4.
1 I Government has invited all the mercnants
'■ j of this commune to lend them all kinds df :
i veflels rising 10 tons.' The commissary of,
I | marine, Bertin, invited a meeting of the 1 ,
1 merchants for the purpose of treating with
' j them ,accordingly the result has been highly
, flattering to the enthusiasm and patriotism g
: of the merchants of Bourdeaux in promot
t ing the expedition to England. Mod or the
1 merchants not ouly have lent ail their veflels
• I gratis> and such as could afford it have alio
I provisioned them. f c
3 J COUNCIL CF FIVE HUNDRED.
January 6. "
* Order of the day—A message from the b
t j Directory demanding a special credit for the ft
„ I service of the Minister of Marine.
, I n
HAMBURGH, Dec. 25. f
d | General La Fayette with his companions I<
I in misfortune, La Tour and Pirfy, continue t
I captives in a castle near Taltana. The gen- c
. 1 eral begins to recover his health, and he on- t
' j Jy waits for spring to proceed to the United c
a States of America.
r I In a difcuflion in the Dutch (Jonve ntion <
of the 19th Dec. on the fubj'cti of their I
navy, there has happened a fhameful fracas '
re j without example."About 30 members rose <
at I greatly agitated, in the fame instant, rush- 1
te ed into the middle of the' Hall, and were ]
e on the peiot of coming to blows. It was _
r _ lin the order. ThTj 1
~ r I galleriestook anadive part in thelV violent 1
_j e agitations, and it wat some time before 1
, rt I calm was rellored by adjourning the quelli
j PARIS, January 3.
.'■' T j From Lisbon we learn, that after the pre
o_ I sent extraordinary collection of troops af
u_ lembling there, that her most faithful ma
n- I jefty. '* to summons the Englilh admiral to
ne . I take himfelf off, and evacuate the forts, the
treaty with France being ratified. The
, rc I court is only waiting the return of an express
jC _ I from Paris.
;]y I The council of five hundred have altered
) „_ I their law of salvage—when the articles fav
]e ed belong to their enemy, the captors (hall
receive two thirds by way o£ salvage and
IQ _ 1 the other to go into the public chest of ma
or rine invalids.
A resolution has parted for putflng the
constitution in force in the colonies.
3n . The Swiss republicans ia Appenfel have
jb_ risen and parties have come to blowsl The
ent viftorv rcfts with the people.
j n Great-failures have taken place in Copen
hagen and which shook some principal houf
tjlt es in Norway.
g a . A Polish courier was arretted on his way
to Italy, and after examination of his letters
3W the Ruffian government arrested some princi
t|ie | pal Polish personages, as Walkwyfky and
jp. Naguifky, charged tvith intimate ccnue&i
on with the Polish volunteers in Italy.
- ac _ It is agreed that the diplomatic correfpon
j„g dence at Rafladt, fliall, agreeable to ancient
fcfs carried on in the Latin language.
re( j Tke Prttffiaii legation is complete by the ar
nan rival of M. De Dohm. *
. to The Italian prince Paterno has fallen into
'{he hands of the Algerines, who demand
700,000 ducats for his ransom.
The Levy of troops is continued in Fran
conia, under she pretext of supporting the
ang negociation of Raftadt.
was A motion has been made by a magistrate
of Basle, to grant the rights of a citizen to
the all the peasants—a symptom of revolution,
fe" Frencll feg'flature have determined
■ t [ )e on a loan of 80 millions, to defray the ex
pense of adefcenton England,
in a The seizure of the Englilh merchandize
Tes; in Paris, Jan. 4, was performed with great
dant regularity and tranquility, with the aid of
im- the military. The value said to be 3 milli
. ons.
the , A article of Jan. 7, %s, the En
offi- seized amount by estimation to
c ar- 3 millions ; and it was spoken of as a mea
one, sure that would not wound .the national ha
ror tred of England, to appropriate these goods
P a >' ment ** thc dcbts to the A-
J l_ mericans, for supplies of corn,
not r " Wakes has given.aU lii» ettate to the
Countess of Huntington, except his lioufe
■nant in which is bequeathed to
I)e- his daughter.. He ha 3 given a thousand
fibers pounds to Mn. Armeld, who lived * with
utrj e ß lm at Kcnfington Gore, and two thousand
the t0 er dau ghter of 27 years old. These
J to' atter also take Lis house in Kensington-
Gore. Miss Wilkes and Mr. Montague are
cos- his exceptors. Hf ordered his bodv to be
can'red tu by fix poor »en,. who
arc to receive a black suit and a guinea pack '
The ir.fcription on his tomb/' Hen htsjo^
Wi&h, a friend to liberty."
Ad«ta=s under the head of Nantz, R O .
Mfc, speak of low ftatc of traie,
and the deft**&i o n
of s
FRENCH OFFICIAL sT.ITE PjiPSR.
PROCLAMATION
Of the Executive D're&ory, to the French, in
Answer to the Briufh Ma n ifesto.
kCITIZF.NS, •
The interelt of the Republic comirands
you one more important triumph. After
innumerable combats from which you have
returned conquerors, it remains for you te
: reduce the firlt, the most in tradable, the cefc
crafty of all your enemies.
! The ExecutiveDiredWv desires a general
peace, the Directory wiihes this peace for
you and for Europe. But this year past
, and more, a faithlefs enemy agitate* himfelf,'
(tuns all the cabinets of Europe with a vain
buzzing, propofts with aloud voice Peace
breathes fecrerly war, affefts to desire to
extingijiih with one hand the torch which
he lights again with the other; fcod* with
eclat Pacitkatois, and repels in effeftail
i thoie overtures which alone could tend to a
: ! pacification. This enemy, yuu know that
• | your indignation points him out to yon and
, names hiin ; it is the cabinet of St.Jatnes's
| it is t'ne mofy corrupting and the mod cor.
rupled of the governments of Europe ; it
is the English goverrthveot.
i It is not only French liberty that
this government diredts its conspiracy ; it»
" ' plot embraces the whole world. Ah ! too
longfince, that perfidious cabinet troubles,
enflaves, desolates every part of the world.
Speak, Americans ; fay who are, diredtly
~ or indirectly, your true Dominators ; uu
s happy Indians, fay by what detestable art
° that government has eflablifhed its tyranny
among you ; and you European*, m«rc un
fortunate still, innocent inhabitants of the
plains of Fratuonia, and of the lofty AlpV,
innumerable viftlraa of the scourge of com
e bats, fay who lias been the most ardent in.
,e ftigator of this deftrudtive war, in which
have been facrificed move than a million
men, in which immense trealures have beta
swallowed up, in which the rye of peace ii
is ielf iow only perceives on the field of vic
te tory but general misery, u'niverfal mourning,
u- one vast fcerie of despair ! Well !itis in
n- the glare of these eircumftances that the
;d cabinet of St. James's reveals to afilifted
Europe that Britain alone has felt nothing
jn of the horrible disasters. Attend to tii
:ir speech from the height of a Throne !
aE " Our revenues," said the King, «' hav
ife continued to augment, our national indmftr
h- has taken a new spring, our commerce ha
■re paired its ancient limits." If the king c
he is then this government intereiled in you
nt diffentions, which alone reaps the fruit n
ire them, which lives by your calamities, prol
li- pers by your diflrefs, accumulates in ita t r .i
furies the tears and the blood of nations
and grows fat on their spoils ?-
It is clear that this cabinet mud dcfii
re- war, since war enriches it. That Govern,
if- merit, nevertheless, in its late manifefto, auc
ia- in its speeches of parade, dares accufc
to France of an insatiable avarice 1 It does not
he fay that the Englifh 1 , firft Devajators of oai
'he island of St. D&mingo, have also taken
ess without a blow the Dutch colonies, altho'
the United Provinces were then their allies,
-ed and that they pretend to retain these thefts,
av- which they will call conquests ; and the
lall king of England speaks to the powers e(
,nd Europe of the ambition of France!
na- But th-s principles of the French towirdi
other nations, are now manifefted ; vague
;he allegations can no longer bbfeure them. If
■the French republic secures the limits which
ave ike has received from nature—if (he repairi
'he in this point the faults monarchy, (he
difdaiut conquests foreign to that great aim:
en- (he does notopprefs the secondary states and
iuf- the weak powers ; (he thinks not of drip
ping herallies; (he is faithful to her fiiends;
iray (he punishes her enemies yet without hating
:ers them ; naturally generous, (he does not even
ici- hate the Englilhnation; and never in France
and will aminifter have a right to the apotheoC»
£ti- for his abhorrence of that people. Bute
very body in France is agreed in one point;
on- it is that one is there put in mind of Tou
ient lon, of Dunkirk, of Quibcron, of the Ven
ige. dee ; it'is that ene detelts and curses cruel
:aarty, perfid.'oufnefs, the bloody machiav li'fm
of the British miniftrv, and that one de
into plores at the fame time, the inconceiveable
and blindness by which the Englifti faffer them
selves to be over-burdened, foty to become
ran- the horror of the world,
the This Great Nation will revenge the Uni
verse, and to effedtuate this, Frenchmen,
rate more than one means prcfents itfelf to you ;
hto the most wor'by and the most rapid is the
ion. invasion of England. Unheard »f fuccef
ined feshave accustomed you to count no more
ex- the obstacles. In fuel) enterprizes, the name
alone of the armies is the prom ife of tri
dize omph and the jliftice of the cafe is its
reat warranty. It is n« longer the time of laugb
d of ing at projedls cf delcent, and of difcuf
nilli- sing the means. At the height where the
French are, their will is vidtory. There-
En- fore, let the army of Eagland go aid die.
nto tate peace in London ! and there also, re-
Tica. publicans, you will find auxiliaries ;
ha- there also, you will fiad many men, whom
oods reason has not fufSciently abandoned, to
:A- prevent them from being sensible of the o
dium which their govetnrrient spreads o«er
) the the English name ; and there also, you will
oufe ' find those thousands of generous men who
;d to ' struggle this long while, in order to obtsm
ifand j a parliamentary reform ; and there alfo,yo u
with will find those laborers without number,
ifand : who sigh after peace, whom war, by P^' 1 '
hefc , trafting itfelf, reduces to misery, and w '
[ton-| weigh, in the balance of their real wanit,
e are 1 ihe fp'enrlid deceit of royal harangu«»
übe illusion of manifeftcj, and the chii" e,a
•T" ' ' ••• -eenqueftt ; and there also, you will si .J, j
the Irish nation, so many yeari oppirSed, I
and which bears with so much-uneasiness the (
chains of a court that nourishes itfelf with j
the toils of Trilhmen, drenches itfelf in I
their blood, and feoffs at their d-.fpatr. 1
Go, under these auspices, brave republi- |
" cans : second the rational and anaHimous j
defirt ; conduced by the hero who placed
y«u fs often on tne road to viftory, you '
will have also for you the acclamations of all
the just and virtuous fouls that exist j'n the
world ; go, re-rftablifh the liberty of the 1
fens ; reftriS in fine, within just limits, the j
disorderly ambition of that government,
perturbator of its own country, as well as
of the universe ; —feeure the repose of the
Trench republic, and that of Europe ; thtre
is the grand taflc which remains far you to
•ccomplifh. And fiace at this moment the
Britith government, •foeering -coldly and
with a ferocious smile at the disasters of the
continent, applauds its opulence, force it
to pay, conformidable tojuftice, its quota
of the expences of this war, which that
cabinet alone wishes to eternjze, and which
it well knows it may terminate as soon as it
cbufes to speak, to the French republic, a
language that one may lillen to, and that
one can believe fincer#.
Citizens, you will recognize your own
sentiments in the exposition of those of the
executive diretftory. The f.'.me spirit ani- j
mates your faithful reprefentajives In vain
the cabinet of London exhausts its efforts to i
sow among them mistrust and discord, or to
persuade that it has facceeded in it. The
j 3th Frudtidor has destroyed English influ
ence, and since that memorable day, the 1
members of the council and those of the 1
directory present the fpeftacle of the moll
affecting union.
Hah ! all patriots have but one interest
—There is in the republic but one opinion
and oae desire. War to the cabjnet of St.
James's it its the cry of France. What glo
ry it protpifed to the army of England 1
Ttfoffices to indicate it to fueh herwes ,
Al> ! to endsme our warriors with an invin- ■
sible rnthufiafn\it is only to put them in j
mind of what they h»ve already 'done. The ,
•walls of the flrongefl palaces have fallen be- ,
fore them ; the firfl captains of the powers
of Eurppe have not been able to refill them. ,
They have made prisoners, Bendsr, at '
Luxemburg and Wur-mser, at Mantua. ,
By them the three coloured standard waves :
on the borders of the Rhine and on the <
JE-gcan sea. After so many victories What t
speeches or what words could add any thing [
to the ardor of French soldiers ? It is e
nough for them to hear the voice of their (
country, and to bear in mfnd their own •
exploits. (Signed)
REVILLIERE LEPAUX, Pres'Jt. t
Legarde, See. General.
■ PA RIS, December 29. r
ehants and bankers of this cTtyWFPI nj
to a conference with the minister of finance j,
at which the Italian Hero attended.—The e
question propounded, was " the best man- x
ner of supplying in a prompt, txpeditious (
manner, those means which the wish of the
government and the general with of the peo- c
pie call for, by a descent an England." The
minister asked for a further loan, whieh he t
was certain would not be denied, as the de- !
mand was only for one half of what they e
s,migh'. fubferibe, to be advanced immediate- _
ly; the mode in which this loan was to be a
effefted was the only difficulty, and it wis j.
for this purpofc that the meeting was call
ad, as this loan is quite d'fferent from all o- t
thers heretofore made, he dtfired their as t
sent. He did not wish to fill them with i- j.
deas of enormous interest, nor, at the fame r
time wi(h to intimidate them to fubfei-ibe; :
he informed them of the only recompense r
they would receive inflead ofintereft—That c
of revenging the wrongs cf our Gountry, t
and punishing the mo 9 perfidious g©vern- j t
ment in the world; to annihilate it; and by ; j
that means give liberty to millions The (
loan, at any rate, should be guaranteed, ,
by government, in cafe of misfortune. It
will have the security in the bravery of our t
armies, who feeroed to have chained victory 1
to their fide.—They will fiud in the contfi- 1
buttons which (hall be laid on that perfidious j
coun ry, a fufficient profit for their loans.—
The merchants atid bankers of Paris, wiH
not be behind hand, certainly, in efforts
with the reft of the country to accomplish
this much wished for expedition. He fin
ifhed by faying that he was certain of meet
ing with that success, in hopes of which he
had called the meeting. I ,
Buonaparte joined his observations to
those of the minister, and it was, as if by
eleflricity, immediately resolved that a de
putation should beg an audience with the
Directory, and inform them that they*.vcre
in transports of joy at the proportion
The proposed audience was given yester
day with all the solemnity which a mcafur*
of this kind demanded.
Fifteen merchants and bankers were in
troduced to the Diredtory, palling through
two rows of grenadiers, who paid them
military honours, and the mafic played those
patriotic airs which always accompany vic
tory — In the hall were the five diredlors, in
full dress, accompanied by all the ministers
and several general officers. Any endea
vours to serve the country certainly de
serve applanfe, and these. deputies certain
ly met with their (hare, 111 the acclamations
of the public as thty passed the streets.
The minister of finance open.-d the business
of the audience. The deputation, by the
voice of citizen Fulcheron, said, that to
forward the views of the Directory and of
France, the merchants of Paris were dispo
sed to give an example of their perfeft con
fidence in them, by advancing such funs as
they might want, without the hopes of
gain, and offering government the use of
their purses and credit, aud at the fame
time promising to inform their correspond
ents in fore'gn parts of this their proceed
ing, and engaging them to the fame pur
pcfe: that although they do sot undertake
Ito atifwer for their fellow-bankers Jtc. in
France, they offer for themselves, and are
: , certain that the fatiefadtion of
1 j conquering England will draw forth their
1 patriotic exertions-
The piefident aufweredthemin a suitable
■ | manner, and exprefTed the thanks of the Di
; j reitory—'After which the deputation was
j introduced into ati inner apartment, where
1 1 they had a private converfatiori with the di
rectory the result of which we do not know
■ but we are affurcd the two parties were e
: ' qually fatisfied, and that there is hopes the
: , generous demeanor of the merchants and
, bankers of Paris will operate as an txample
1 to all true Frenchmeu, and lovers/jf their
country.
: Tremble, in your turn, perfidious govern
-1 ment, who, with your floating tallies be
: lieve yourselves invulnerable. Tremble at
I the vengeance of Frenchman! Infpiteofl
: theex'oauftcd (late of our ref«urGes,we have
still enough left of both (leel and gold, to
i conquer you, and punish yobr arrogance.
The result of the f«ci*t audience we do
1 not know officially, but we are allured from
unquellionableauthority. thata firfl advance
of 40 millions was agreed on, and further
sums, if neceflary, at a momen.'s warning-
Their example will be followed by all the
commercial houses in France, andwehaveno
' doubt, but we shall soon fee that sacred ob
j ligation fulfilled, which every Frenchman
has given to his country, the deJ}rußion of
the Englilh Government.
COPENHAGEN, Nov. 17.
•The presidency of our academ yof fci'en
ces v vacant by the death of Bernftorff, ha»
been given to the count dc Schimmelmann.
wwHumr w—*c—mp'iNiwwHMWi
congress.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
MOMDAY—MARCH 12.
Mr. D. Foster, from the cpmmittee of
claims, made an unfavourable report on the '
petition ®f William Smith, Efq, |of Balti
more, who prayed for compensation on ac
count of loan-office tickets loft or destroy
ed—Ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Cochran presented two petitions, '
one from the weftcrti part of the ftatc of
New York, praying for an alteration in the ;
post-roads ; the other for Georga Nestle, 1
an old soldier, praying to be placed on tha
on the pension lift. The former was referred
to the committee on port-offices and post-road
the latter to the committee of claims.
Mr. Baldwin, from the committee to
whom was referred the bill from the Senate
providing for the amicable settlement of the
limits of Georgia, reported the bill without
amendment. It was committed to a commit
tee of the whole for to-morrow.
Mr. Clopton, from thecommittee of en
rolment reported the bill for the relief of the
Stf^yji.?i n .4.P r pl'ane of certain deceased offi
houfe, and placing certain EuoysT^
enrolled.
Mr.C. also presented the petitienof James
Creifs, prayingfor compensation for fervicer
in the war.—Referred to the committee of
claims.
Mr. Champlin presented a petition from
! the inhabitants of Warren, in Rhode-Island
! praying that the Warren river may be flak
ed out at the expence of the United States.
Referred to the committee of commerce
• and manufafturts, with pouter to report by
bill or other wife.
The Speaker laid before the house a let
ter from the Governor of this ftatc, ascer
taining the eleftwn of Mr. Heilter in the
place of Mr. Ege, who resigned, which was
referred »o the committee of elections.
On motion D. Foller, the hotife
resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole
i on the report of the committee of claims, to
to whom was referred the memorial and pe
tition of Joseph Ball, and others, holders of
; bills of credit, emitted in pursuance of a re
solution Congress of the x Bth of March,
1780. The report was read as follows :
That a ftaiement of the cafe of the holders
of bills of this delcription Is eontainrd in a re
port of the accounting officers of the Treasury
made 01) the 24th day of December 1795, in
pmfuance of an entitled " An adt relative
4 ' to claims again It the United States not barred
" by any a& of limitation and which have not
" bees already adjusted," in the words follow
ing, to wit:
" Class 8. The claims of this class are found
" ed on hii.s of credit, commonly called bills of
" the new emiilinns iflued on t;he funds of indi
" viduil dates, purfuint to an i<st of Congress of
" the 18th March, 1780. Th. following claule
"of the said at\ (he*s in what event the Unit
"ed were to become answerable for the pay
-14 ment of these bils, " th't the said new bils
" issue on the funds ef individualJlates for that
" purpofc ejiablifhed, and be finned byperfom of
«' , ointed by them, and that the faitb of the Unit
" ed States be also pledged for the payment of
" the said bills in cafe any flute oh rjjbojt funds
" they shall be emitted., Jhoild, by the events of
" war, be render edincapable of redeeming tbem."
" The ir.tereft accruing on them was to tiave
" been paid by the United States annwally, if
"called for, in bills, of exchange on Ei-nope,
" and the amount charged to the state* relpecl
" ively. It does not appear howevei tliat any
" such f ayments were made "
" It is unWerfloid that the fcveral ftites con
"cemed have paled laws providing forthere
" demptton of their refpeflive por ions of tlii
" money, and it is prelxmeable that the far
" greater part thersof his been redeemed ac
" cordingly. The hills for which payment is
" now claimed are chiefly of those fTucd by the
" dates of New-Hamp:i.ire, MafTathufetts and
" Khode lfland.
" This species of papt-r hat never been confid
" tred a> t'oiming any part of the debt ef the
" United States"
In the variou- arrangements which have been
made fiace the efiahliihment of the p efent go
verument, relative to the debt of the United
States, no provision ha* ever been made for these
bills—they appear from the face of them to be
evidences of debt against ite slates individually
who had ifiwed them, and could not be provided
for by the United States, without raising a
charge against those slates ; and it was reafona
blyto be prefumtd that ihe slates concerned
would make fu.h provision as the jultice ana
equity of the cafe required.
Ihe Secretary of the Trsafiry is bl» report
' of the ife.h of 'Jani;ar*, 1795, WeommenSrd that
such of thele bills as had been exhibited at the
treasury it, purpianee of the a<fl intiruled " 3ft
" ai£l re'ative to cl ims apainit the United Stites
" nat barred by any afl of limitJtion and which
" had not been already adjulled." am luntinjr to
the sum of 9 ,574 ilollars fnoi,ld be prov ded
for by taking the principal sum t>f thrm, \vith<-
out mterelt, on loan at 5 per cent, payable quar
ter yearly, reedeema lejtjlie plealtire of the U
j nited States ind payable in^ovears —he remarks
j " That the refoiutior.s of Congress an i the
" endorsement upon those bills engige rhe a'>-
" solute promifr of the Uni'cd States for the
" payment of tlieihterefl indefinitely, and their
'eventual guarantee of the principal, in cife
" any flare on whofc f.inils thebtlL* fc 'ind be
" emitted ftujld by the events of \i ar be reti
" di-red incapable to redeem them ; which is in
' rjfifl though not in firm ail iljfolutff gwaran
" lee 0/ tie prjnci'pal ; for the United Sutes are
'* hpund to pay the interefl perpetuai'y till that
" is 'liicharired.
" Goed faith demands that the United States
" Ihould supply the omissions of the flale. which
" ifTued the bids, by providing themselves, at
" lea ft for the interefl upon them—bur u is not
" as easy to pronounce on wnat terms they ought
" to be provided for..
" On their'tare and lccording to the wire
" voiced refo'utioiis of Congrefi they aio.<iffpe
" cie value equal to their nominal amount, bear
" inj five per cent, interell.
" But :t is known thar they were ifluted by
" d.fferent states at diiTerent inferior values fix
" e l by previous iaws
" The true nature of the contra<3 therefore
•' and the true equity of the cafe, are from tbc-fe
" cireumflances involved in fo<ne question."
The prepofni'lll of the Secretary on this fub
jeiSl, wj» not adopted by Cori^rels.
It is a fad notorious th„t thei'e bills fjpk in
the fame vertex of a eitrprecistior. With the old
con.inental bills, and white they continued to
circulate were generally in the ratio of lofty of
the old, for one of the new.
This unfortunate depreciation, which operat
ed opon all the paper mone.y nates and certifi
cates, ifTued during the war, neceflitate.l the
United States to adobt principles re'ative ro
them whicb cannot apply in cases <>f ordinary
co'ntra#— the ftajes, individually, have assumed
similar privilcgci; and n making j»r. vilion for
the bills in queltiwn, in some instances, have con
fidcred thera as a depreciated currency.
The committee »re informed,thaf all the fbtes
who iffurd bills of this dtleription, have a'rea •
dy made provifnn for their redemption, either
at their nominal amount, or at a eeriair, ratio of
depreciation, except the state of Rhnd«-Jfland—
i and they think it is fairly to be presumed, that
the states have made as liberal * proviiion as
the nature of the cafe demanded.
The United States have once made allowanc
es to the several states in settlement of their ac
counts for the supplies for which those bills
were ifTued ; should they make any further pr»-
vision, th«y must consider the several states as
indebted to them for the amount of such pro
viiion.
From an attentive eonfideration of all the
eireumftanees of this cafe, whicl) the committee
have endeavoured fully to exaihine and present
to the vieiv of the house they are of opinion,
that it will not be expedient for Congress. to
make any provision for the payment of said
bills ; they therefore recommend that the peti
tioners, refptflively, have leave to withdraw
their petitiens. f
This report was advocated by Meflrs Coit
fr """ nppr.Mff Try-*-.. 1 ~| r* .11 t | _
all, Livinglton, Otis, J. Williams and Day
ton.
The latter gentleman thought the report
of the committee was incomplete, as it did
not appear to have distinguished between the
principal and the intereil of these bills. . He
agreed with the comkiittee, with refpeft to
the principal, but was of opinion the Unit
ed States were bound to pay the interefl,
and that as the states which had negle&e'd to
make due proviiion, for these bills were cre
ditor states with the United States, any sum
which Congrefj'ftwild agree to pay, might
be' justly set off againit what was du« to
them. He hoped, therefore, the report
would be re-committed, and a diftin£tion
made betwee the principal and interefl.
After some conversation on this fubjeci,
in which it was stated, that there would be
no end gained by a re-committal, and that
if the report was not fufficiently explicit, it
might be made so, the question on agreeing
to the report was put and carried, there be
ing 62 votes for it.
The committee then rose, the house took
up the report, which after being amended,
by adding, after the word bills," or any
interejl thereon, it was agreed to, there being
62 votes in its favor.
Mr. Livingfton said, he was inftrufted
by the committee of commerce and manufac
tures, to all; for the appointment of a mem
ber upon that committee in the place of Mr.
Swanwick, whose ill state of health did not
permit him to attend the house.—Agreed,
and Mr. Otis was appointed.
Mr. L. added, that he wilhed to a(k ah
explanation of the house refpeiting an im
portant fubjeft. Two atfs ot the Britilh
parliament had been referred generally to the
committee of commerce and manufadlures,
and there had been some doubts in the com
mittee as to the proper course ta be taken.
Some members thought the objeA of the
reference must have been far them to state
fatts relative to their operation, or to report
what measures may be necessary to be taken
in consequence of this operation, which
would ferionfly affedt the commerce and na
vigation of the United States. In order to
determine this point he proposed the follow
ing resolution tor the adoption of the house:
" Rtfolved, that the committee of com
merce and manufaftures be iwllrndted to ex- 1
amine the two afts of the Britilh parliament !
referred to thefn, and report the operation
thereof on the commerce and navigation of j
the United States."
On motion of Mr. Otis, ordered to lie
on the table.
Mr.. Bayard presented a petition from the
Diftrift Attornies, praying for some altera
tions with refpeit to their fees.—Referred j
to a feletS committee.
Mr. Sewall moved that the house resolve
itfelf into a committee of the whole on the
state of the Union, in order to consider the
resolutions reported on Thursday, in conse
quence of the message of the Prelident; hut
the usual hour of adjournment being arriv
td, a motion was to adjourn, and the i
house 1
%l)t <swttz.
PHII.AD ELP H IA ,
TUESDAY EVENTING, March 13
From our Correfpo::J?nt at Hamburgh.
O£ober 3 1.
" My letter which informed you of La
Fayette's happy arrival, will hare reached
yen. I saw him some days afterwards in
good fpiriis, and very chsarful though in a
large company, and belieged with questions.
His lady and daughters were with hint.
They look somewhat pale, and Madame
Fayette cannot walk very well, on account
r)f the rbeumatifm. Tin's will ha bet to.'
soon. Bureau de Pufy and his lady were
| also in the fame company. De la Tour
; Maubourg, was accompanied by his lady
i and two 'daughters, as also his brother. 11.
| Pillet formerly adjutant of Gen. La Fay
! ette arrived with them. The General and
his family departed on the 9th of this month
i for Ploen, a town to the north in Holftein,
where his brother in law has an dbte.—
There he intends to pass the winter. They
don't speak much qf their ftifferfrtgs. They
' knew nothing of what happened in the
world, and it was at Dresden that La Fay
ette firft heard of the net/fence of Buonaparte J
; a proof how closely' tbey were confined j
1 tho' it is falfe, the report that they were
treated inhumanely, as to their drefe, fare
and dwellings.
' The Emperor of Rufiia goes on with his
; reformation, eften extremely fev c re, and 4-
l ven despotic and cruel, but well meant and
j said to be necessary. I must not ba conftni
!ed to juftify the means he uses. He is par
ticularly to be blamed for adding iofults to
his puailhraents of negligent officers and
ferrants of the crown. Their dismission,
or other punishment or rebukes, Jcc. are al
ways published by hreorder in the Gazettes
in very humiliating terms. His orders are
often unreasonable—lately, for example, he
ordered Under severe penalties, that the ship
wherein he was, when reviewing his fleet at
Reval, should be called by every body a fri
gate, tho' it was but a sloop or yacht—the
order was printed in the PeteriburgGazette.
Yet with all this, he loves peace, order,
justice and exa&ncf* in public affair*. The
Empreft, by her mild amiable temper, is
said to mitigate his severity very often."
The French hare taken from the Arfe
nali in Venice 6000 cannon and 100,000
small arms, the four famous equeftrain fta
tuesof Corinthian bronze, which had ador
, ned that eity for 500 years ; great numbers
of pictures and antiquities, and cfpecially
moil rare and precious manuscripts The
people wept and were indignant but could
not help themselves.
Great failures have taken place m Copen
hagen and which fiaook principal houses in
UK. FINN*,
Sir having read in your Gazaettee of Jaft
Wednesday an enquire concerning the Cad
ety of United Irishman be pleafd to,inform
the English spy that the purpose of their
meetings is to keep alive in,their minds the
fufferings of their coiyatry men under the
Britfti Goverinent PADDY
The British Packet arrived at New-York on Bun
daylafl, with the January mail, and brings toe ■
den papers to th« 15th of the month.
HOUSE OF PEERS—Thursday, Jan 11.
The afii.fTucl tax bill was lead a third time, apd
pafiVd.
The Lord Chancellor gave notice, that to-mor
row he should move, that an account ihnuld be
laid before theheufr (as soon as the fame could be
made cur) of the fjms paid by their lordlhips in
confeqijcice of the increase ot the alfelfed t ires,
Hitlordlh'p said, that his motive for making this
motion was, to thew the extent to which thuir
lordships contributed to the exigencies of the (late.
Lord Carringtori said, he should add to the mo
tion, that an account flionld be laid before the
house of the voluntary co..tnbuti; B« made by their
lorcl&iips.
The houle wasordered to be funiraoned for to
morrow.
Lord Grenville delivered the following meffige
from his Majesty,
'• O. R.
" Hi* Maj.-fty thinks proper to acquaint the
Houfj of 1 ords, that hi* M jefty has received va
rious advices of preparations made and measures
taken in France, apparently in pursuance of a de
sign, openly and repeatedly profeffed, of attempt
ing the invaCon of these kingdoms.
" His Majesty is firmly perfiiaded, that b* the
zeal, courage and exertions of his fu.' joSs drug
-ling for wi atever is moll dear to fuch -aii
enterprize, if attempted, will terminate in the
conluCon anil rniu of those who may be engage .
in it. But his M.<jefly, in his arxious concern for
the Safety and Welfare of his faithful people, ft-el
it incumbent on him to omit no suitable precau
tien which may contribute to their defence.
" Hi? Majeity, therefore, in purluance of th.
a& passed for providing for the angmei ta'ion el
the militia, has thought it right to make this com
munication to the House ot Lords to the end,
that his Majesty may cause the said militia or such
part thereof as he (hall thiiik nec4ffary,to be drawn
out and embodied, and to march as occasion ihall
require." r -
1 ord Grenville said, it would only be necessary
for him to move a general address of thanks to his
Majsfty, alfuring his Majeify of their Lord ip
si.m and zealous support in any meaftms which
| his Majesty mijjht think it necessary to take for the
1 defence of thele kingdoms.
The addruls was agreed to mm. dif. and the house
adjourned.
HOUSE OF COMMONS—Friday, Jan. I*.
COMMISSI")*
The Speaker, ardfev.ral members, attended at
the bar >■( the House of Lords, where the Royal ai
fent was given by Commission, to the Affcffcd i ax
Bill, the rmy ugmentation Bill, and several
private Bills.
Adjourned to Thursday the Bth day of February.
LONDON, January 13
All the Dutch prizes, except the Alk
maar, which is appointed to he a receiving
, ship at Blackltakes, are gone up to Cha
tham, where they are to have a complete
) survey, fer the purpose of ascertaining what
' repairs arc wanting. The faialleft of them
it Sjibgaßutvi, will be converted into ftcrt
fliips for different fcrvices.
ASSESSED TAXES.
We URderfiand tiiat lord his
mo!t munificiently fubferibed, in addition
his a fir fled taxcr, ticcnty thousand pounds lo
the immediate exigencies of this state.
The speaker of the houfc'of common*,
we learn f*om pretty good authority, Iul»-
l'cribes tiuo thoufandpounds a year to the pub«
lie fervic», during the continuance of war.
We are informed from good authority,
that an elderly lady at Kensington, has de
clared her intention of giving one whol®
year's income, amounting » i 6,0001. as a
contribution for the defence of the country.
The well known liberality and public spirit
of Mrs. Lea, gire us every reason to fnp
pofe that the information is well founded.
Citizen Talleyrand Perigord, the aftual
French minister for fortign affairs, has writ
ten a letter Callard, the minister
of the dire&ory, at Berlin, dire<3ing hinv
to reprefeirt to the king of Prussia, that the!
dominions of the duke of Brunfwick are a
r.riv Coi/ctftx, and a rallying point for emi
grants ; and to r«jueft his majesty would
cause the duke to expel from his duchy,
without diftiixfb'on of age or sex, the pro»
faribed and emigrated French Refugees,
whose number amounts in the whole to
4000 pe< sons. Ihe young king having
complied , with the request, the duke has
found himfijf obliged to order all emigra
ted or prof.ribed French families to quit his
dominions within a nonth's time.
Among (hefe urf-rttiiiate exiles, is the
archbishop of Rlieimc, uncle of cimen
Talleyrand, and also tfc* mother of this
mini Her.— About woo of these profcrihed
perfoßß, being deilitute of all means to
raise the cxpence necelTarily attending their
•removal, the country people have made a
eolleftioti to supply with monty. Lou
is XVIII. on being informed of tlii3 erder
of expulsion, dispatched a courier to Pe
terfburgh, to request permifiLn, as is gen
erally supposed, to withdraw to Mittua.
All the latest accounts from Germany co
incide in stating, that this meafore of ex
pulsion is to be extended throughout that
country.
Buonaparte is now caricatured in the Pa
risian (hops, under the appearance of Rob
inson CrufcE, the Engli/h mariner on his raft.
Instead of Robinson's Bible the French
general has saved from the wreck, which is
a vefTel with the tri-colored flag, a -volume
oj threats againfl the British -Government.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, March 12.
On Saturday evening the British Packet
Halifax, Capt. J. Rowc, with the January
Mail, arrived at this port. She failed from
Falmouth on the 25thofJ»n. but flte has
brought papers no later than Jan. 2c.
The captain informs, that it has been of
ficially announced at London ( but he hat «•
■ArtnteJrn* v gf ) that fh<» conqueror of Ita
mdfi«n, and retired from the army, after
having presented an "
r.a «i. j m ax 1 ino mention is
made -wherefore he has resigned. It may
poflibly be the cafe, but there is room for
doubtl ( Argus.)
A gentleman pa.Tenger in the packet.who
left London on the 16th Jan. informs, that
Mr. Pinckney had wrote his friends, re
quelling them to procure lodgings for him
1U London, as he intended to leave Paris
shortly.
We hear that eapt. Williamfon, of his
Britannic majesty's (hip, Agineourt, has
been broke for not coming into attior. when
the signal was made in the late defeat of th«
Dutch fleet by admiral Duncan.
NEW-THEATRii. /
TO-MORROW EVENING, March 14,
w ill be prefer,ted, the Comedy of
The COUNTRY GIRL.
With the Comic Oprra of
The PRIZE ;
° r , 2, 5, 3, 8.
Subscription Hall. 1
The laH but one.
Mr. Francis rufprtffully informithefu'*>feriher»
that th: third Ball wi Ibe to-m rrow evening the
3th inft—Lady'- tickets,an.? non fuWcribcrs tick
ets to be had by applying to Mr. Francis, No. 70
•J'jr h E ghth Street—or at the Affembly-roorr
South FBurth Street.
rn-irch 11. I
A Great Bargain.
ITTILL RE SOtD, if applied 'or imrnediste
» V ly , Twenty Thousand Dollars in Bills of
redit, upon interest a t fife percent, per annum,
now lodged in the Treasury, end endorsed by the
.Jnited States, with a promise to " pay the inte
r ft annually."
F.nquire at the Office of" THOMAS McF.WEN
n ■ niT-fh ' 3 5t
For Sale,
ha &RIOT,
NOW lying at Ru&j'i Wars
Bijrthc 1 77 fjtis.—three- years oil, built oftße best
materials and is well found—would answer weil
for a coaster, as (he has excellent accommodations.
Fer terms apply to
Gurney & Smith.
march '3 §
Wanted to live in the Country,
About fiv.- miles from tHT» city, a Hber ftea
day Man who nnderftands gardening and the
management of a few acres of land, an t wcuhl
not objetfl toat'end a couple nf hotfes Such
a one reayniecjt with ih > : a! wagts by sp lyino
at tke office of this Gazette. ' *
N. B. N'.te need apply but those of wnex
ceptienahlc iharatflers-
Marcb i; dta
TO RENT,
A good three story House,
TV O rooms on each flocr, with a c«i venirnt
K.itchen—in Front, near Seuth-ftreet.- Enquire
, cf tlio Printer. »*rch 3 —jaw jwtreasury
PUBLIC NOTICE !S HEREBY GIVEN,
».■■'"rtrj&iirsvsjis.-iss•
a w ,
ted throughout tiie Umted Stat.t. (
For every Ctin or piece of Vellum or
written or printed any either of the infiruro.nt. or writing.following m i
Any Certificate of Naturalization - .r reg'iftry of
A 10 !
Umted Statu? - * ' , , Q r t k e United States a
tor *• s "'" .
4 <;s:£irr s «■« ,
ccpt fcr land, granted for mt Kary service. J - _ t
Any Lharter-Par.y, Bottcmry, or Refpondentia w;u or _
Any Receipt or difebarge for or on C °"" t * f g Jrt ot a pcr fona\ etote di
ther teHamentary inflrumeut, or for any Biare p , h Wife. Chil
lided by force ofany flatute be
dren or Grand Children of the pe o ex ceed the value of One Hun
above the value of Fifty Dollar., and (hall not exceed the value »
dred Dollar., - * . th * a i ue 0 f Ooe Hundred Dollar, and
When the amount thereof Gull exceed tn _
(hall no* exceed five dollar,, - fjm of ,
Any 'iPolicy'of mftr»n>ent «y fti* veflel or
r£ ;£uSidvz ss? £«? the fumfor which
feal'of any 1
r n, f »h#» nO of the Un : f«d States or some particular liite,
dollar, and not exceeding one hundred " *°
If above or e hundred dollar, and not exceeding five hundred drilars 25
If Ibove five hundred dollars and nor exceeding one tho.And dollars, $•
And it above one thousand dottars, * " ... r j..
Pro-vidtd, that if a«y bonds or note, Ihall be payable at or within fix y y.,
ft.ch bonds or notes fl>»!l be fnbjeft to only two fifrh parts ot the duty
If and not exceeding one hundred daUat., .- I 4
If above one hundred dollar, and not exceeding five 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding' one thousand dollars, 20
If above one thousand doilars, - " , "*
Any Notes issued by the banks now e<Ublifted, or that naay. be eftab
Whed «ithiu the States, other than the note, of iuch of the 'aidßanks
i, (hall aeree t. an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends nadeby such Backs, to their Stockholders refpeihvely, according to
the following scale. - , „ 5
On ail notes not exceediag fifty dollars, for each dollar, " "
• On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars jo
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - ' 1
Ob all fic>fe« above five hundred dollars, - 3
Ahv l'r#ttft or other Notarial ai£l, - - " * . "5
Any Lrttti of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or .el. A ar
rant! f-r Land granted by the United States as bounty for military Services
pertormed in th? late war, - . 2 $
\r'v CertiScaieor Debeutnre for drawback of CulU>m» or duties, for left than
f. ,e hur.dred dollar., - - - V
i or five hunoitd dollars and cot exceeding two thousand dollan, 1
or note rhan tuo thousand dollars, • • 3
A« v note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize tblie exported,
It from one didri-S to another diftriA of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - * " . 10
II . rum the United State, to anv foreign port or place, r ♦ !___
A»y inventory or Catalogue of any J0
. ,ht B "" 1 "
- jj
lTu:»der twenty dollai 5, at the rate of ten cents for one
4
The duties aforel aid will be eolleAed and received by the Supervisors, Infpedors aud other Officers
r( lufpeftion', in the several DilirisS", Surveys and DiviGons of the- United States, and by such other
persons as fcall from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Dillrids for
that puryofe. '
in.
The Supetvifor. of the several Diftrifts will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
nny be piaflicable, mark or flamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcelsef Vellum, Parch
tiert or Paper, with i,ny of the rates of dutiss before enumerated, on payment ef thefaid duties ; Or
{•arrpetl velluni, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
uintd at the ratev prefenbed by law, hj applii.ticji Vo any Cupervilor, InfpeSar, Officer of Infpedion,
or vih.r psifon appointed lor the diflribution of Stamps, by the Superviforsof Diflricis
GIVEN under my HauJ, at Pbiltulclpbit
the day and year abwmentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secrtlarj of the Treajury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands agaiuft
the estate bf Willam Flecwtood, of
Liverppd, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are rcquefted to exhibit their accounts,
properly attefltd ; and thole who are indebted
to the fame, are difirtd to make immediate
payment, ta
GEO. DOBSON, \ .. .
No. i s , So. Tliird-flreet. > Admir.iflr r
January 4. * dtf
Just Published,
And te be had at the Book-fkres of Messrs. Bob
.. son, Campbell, Yodnc and Orssr*d,
thi ir Philadelphia,
ed 1 OBSERVATIONS
they On the Caulci and Cure of Remitting *r Bilious
late '• Fevers,
any los T» tvkicb it annexed,
•ver, AN ABSTRACT of the options and praAiee of
to c* different authors: and an APPENMX, exhib
iting intrrefling fa&s and iffUclion? relative to
jrjj' the SyntxLm IRtroidts, or Yellow Fever, which
his cctaGoned so much distress Mi mortality,
mt different periods, in several *f the seaport
towns of th« I'nited States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
y' Felow of the Philadelfhia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Phil*,'of hical So
ciety. Feb. I—*3mj
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
yf valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-cast comer of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fronting the State-
Hcufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
cn Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there arc at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftcres, wharf, Bte. fituateon
Water street, between Mulberry ani Saflafras
Streets, containing in front cn Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth caft
ward ninety-fire feet, then widening to the
IV-1. I 1 thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
1 »\e the convenience of a publ'c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
eiilioa for a a merchant, flour faAor, or others
Mho may have occasion for ftoxage of goods.
Thi» property will be Cold on very reasonable
•. ■ irs stir rash. For further information apply
to the printer.
Ju.y 31. mjcwtf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng (o contra® his busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, cn moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnace*,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Milt, with two pair of stones; a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair,aaaie allthe Water Works conneft
ed with thefc varioui branches. The Air Furnacea
were lately built for the purpose of railing Cannon
for thia State.—There are abou' two thonfaod acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately mannlaciiercd there,
fully pso V £s the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any io the world ; for not one of fixty-niiie guns
lately made, althr ugh some of the 14 were bored
in'o 32 pounders, hare failed on proving. The fuu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, aad a place of arms lying in the «ate
of Connecticut,and only 30 miles from several land,
ings on the Hudfon't river, and having every advan
tage that can result from • plenty of water issuing
from 4 large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into 4 variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat
ed with ail the flock and ultnfils, and have possession
on or before the firfl of Junenext, and preparation
may be made in the mcao Lime for going into Blalf im
mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
ir, good order, wiih some coal.Oie, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Elq. one of the Reprefcntaaves
in Congress for t has Sate j Mr, 8,v, 0 Waterman, oo
uiepremjles, or to the proprietor in New-York
WILLIAM NEILSOJJ.
ucc, t •
3»wtf
NOTICE.
A Manufactory cf yellow and delft ware,
Such as si ever was in this Country before, has bevn
been lately erefted at Tivnfi, Red Hook. Landing
onthe Ea(l g,„k D f Hudlon's River, ft, e of Ne
York where any ar tlc le of various sons and ftiapes
may be executed, , s well as ear.hern Roves uroi, a
new conßiu&ion, that saves three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in cast iron floves or open chi mnies •
Syi"gt erywh ° ,efon,e ,nd by*
... J- mouchet
Wanted a (killful hand to attend to the bakin- and
gh»ng part of the said w.r«. Generous appo" .
menrs will be given. Apply ,„W.„e. or to
david brooks, Es q .
rrf) No. 71 South s th Street.
eod,ps
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre° f t h« city—for which a gonercu,
rent will be given ; ,0 be taken lor a ye J,
more for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer
O,S - ' 7 * cots
proposals,
Infurmue Compl'njof, j?
e'er Insurance ri » t Jr , « p»
u r rt Ware-Houses, of^er 5 in
Hoblct, are
on Goods dontained 10 such Budding ;
Philadelphia, lo United States. q
~' Comm.n luftirarcZ~on harard, of thefirft FJ
eW>f wi,i bo -
half P'r cent, per annum, for . vhich <J
rifqars a larger premium will be req q ,
will Viiy according to circumtt^nce»,
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; b«mfome*-
fiances, where the property infore^ ! ftifi 'J [o
itfelf extra hazardous, bat rendered I ft. « »«re I t<
by the vicinity of extra hazardou"
occupations, the premium demanded i
accocdiiH* to circumstances. . J'
Homfe, =nd Vare Hoofes, the walls and part - b
tioiis of which arc wholly of ftot.c or hrtck, writ
c„nllr«<3jed, so ai to he jruarded « weU a* may be
s.rjinil fires from within, and tree trom ix-ra (_
iarfc.us bladings and occupations in tilr,r " c, » h "
b»rlioed, will be domed hazardous of the tint
class, a r d may be insured to their so- vali'.'.
J».llb 60tick anJ Meiehandiz , -not oj un extra
hazardous kind, in caflco. bales, • r packages, <4e
v-olitcd*. such buildings, to an amount cot ex
tee Jing 4000 dollars ; bat if more than this lam
is required to be mfured in one tenement, 1 11 1 r
tional premium will be req :.red, in proportion to
circuroftarwes. ,
11. Insurances will also be ma«Je on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proport.oned J
to tha risque. But it is not easy to arrange thele
under particular heads or classes, so as to oefcribe
each with the necessary Each cafe mu.t
therefore be decided upon according to the circum
[lances a-tsnding it ; and these circumftar.ees w:>i,
in general, appear from the description accompa
uymg the application.
Bu.ldings partly conflruSed of hrick or it one,
are preftra!?le to thofo wholly wooden. And in ]
both cafits, the stile of bulling, how they are oc- i
cMjiied, how they are faulted, # thc neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are confederation* to
betaken into view. And with refyedt to goods,
their'tendsncy, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, either
W commence or to iacreafe an accidental fire, aRd
their liability in fueh state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden and hasty removal, or to be tlo
leu in time of confufioii and hurry, are all cir
cumlUnces of weight ; and ths premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following condition! are to be under,
ftoed by the parties .
ill. The lnfurar.ee is not binding till the ftipu
lat«d premium be paid ; but it lhall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accrp
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
«d. Infnrances may ba renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
pense* than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fami
as they were understood by the lofurtrs at the time
i the former insurance was ma<i* ; but the paymeut
of the premium is essential to such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; hot can the insurance be renew
ed en the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
gf the former Ibfurance. The fubjeA of insur
ance may neverthslefs be open to treaty for a new
infuiance.
3d. If »"y other infiirance be made on the fame
property ; it must be made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
_ wiU b,e,v . |n .. | 1 "
thty are hoc tobe eocfidered as infuied otherwise.
5 th. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occalioa»d by any for
eign invauan, or by any military or ui'otped force,
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept ia the building, or amongfi: the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
-5 ritiet, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
missory Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
r nor are paintings, medal*, jewels, gems, antique
curiofitie>, or mirrors exceading the value of twen
ty-live dollars each, to be considered as insured uh
-5 less particularly mentioned and by special agree
" mcnt.
r 7th. No insurance will be made for a ftiorter
" term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe
> ve» years. Persons choosing to infare for seven
years lhall be allowed one year's premia'm by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium lhall
be abated m like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Lofles sustained by fire en property insured,
- fliall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A defci iption of the property to be infurod will
e be expeded with each application, to be made by
a mailer carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by th« owner of the building ot applicant for in-
II furance, aad attefled before a Notary or principal
. Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
, parties and their credibility.
With refpeft to Houfet and other Buildings,
® ift. The site and ppfninn ; delcribing the
j street or road on or nJar which the building
stands j its cbntiguity to water, and other cir
-14 cumftances relative to the extinguilhment of fiie
il in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
is any and what fire companies arc eftiblifted, and
d engines provided,in the place or neighbourhood.
ad. The materials »f which it is built, whe
' ther of brick, Hone or wood, and what part of
® each, aa well as to the ouifidc walls as infideor
_ partition walls, and their refpeftive height and
g thickness ; the fty!e of the roof and of what
r , materials ; how secured by baltlements
:r ty walls ; what kind of access to the top of the
house and to the chimnies j whether any and
n what eledlric rods ; the number and kind of
n fire places ; and the kind of deposit for aDies.
'j 3d. l'he ditnenfions of the building and how
ir divided, and the-ilyle in which it is finiOied so
I. as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
■j manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
n injury ; the *ge and condition of the building,
and how occapied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pose , also aa eftiraate of the value of the house
- or build.mg independent of the ground.
4th. Tr.efituatiop with refpedl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
at tJ'ftißce, how built, of what materials, and
es how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
» lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
• ried #n, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
lited in the house, or within the distance afore-
and ot what kind.
, Rtfpeflinggoedj ia Houfts, Warehouses, &c.
I. A general description of the building in
Til r^ y K bc CX P eaed ' ' n
'* l' J O,hed,0 S">ft"n lire, with that
- fel,a In^ran « °n the buildings them
». A description of the kinds and nature of
ar goods, whether in calks or other packages
us or opened ; , nd whether riifplayed in whole'
tfT " th# U,UII fcr ™ tor retailing. Anrf
if the goods vary materially in kind, a' general
cftimate cf the value of each kind t o
be inlured ; but U U!l uUf miDUte '
neli of description is not expected.
з. Articles of the followmg kind'. „
parked ; Looking ptafTc, jewelery s «daj o |e
ther articles mot. thai, commonly to
or ft ore than commonly liable to .njy J b«
d,n removal or by .no.flures, or particularly (h
obnoxious to theft oa an alarm or nre. _ m
T paid* dire<sUd to the Secrctar) m
tl,e Board of Dlredlors. will be duly th
An •rder for Insurance sccompanied by the w
mean, of paying the premium, V.Joe mm - n ,
diately e«ecuted on the prem,«m 1-e.np l»» ■• J,, o
j tl-.e application contain an
be mUcred. • s
Bv of ihe B<Krr"> ar
gBENEZER HaZAKD, Slc ry.
Ofict 'i/tbe Insurance Ccmpany t/Nori* ?
" America ; Pbdad. ?tb. t, 1798" J
Feb. 14- j r
For Sals,
A good fitu?.tion for a Country sE
l Olf I V acres of land on the Old V ark Road,
wi hb fight of Germantown and about five miles,
from the City, tW whole be in- under go.d .ence, q
ami in excellent order as pallure grounn.
For further information and terms, W P
Elliott Cresson, at his office tor the
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. i\o. J4»
liigh-ftreet. j
ad mo. a6th.
Balkenridge —lor lale i
TT consists of 920 acres, almost all o{ " '
1 a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late (
Eirl of Sterling). It may be convemendy dixuled
into five farms, four of whicfrare bounded oa the (
East hv the river Pafaiek.
There are on it a number of buiWmgs, for "" n 5 ,
a fauare of nearly three aeres-The dwellmj house
t, l vary convenient one and a small expence would
~1 ajnple Trees—and there .s on other pirts of Cfid
и,a P »«r>0other Apple rrees-«.alfo a gr«t
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
: best and most delicious kinds. . ,
AUe a great number of beautiful Exot.es and
• Foreime£ «h« add to th. beauty-»d eo»vem
erce of the place. Its f.tuatwn >• abe«t 18 wiles
from the towns of Newark and EUabeth : .0 do..
• from Morris-Town, and ia from Springfield
• is wooded and watered. . , - cre
r To live trouble, the price .s five pound pr acre
incalh, oa delivery of the d«di. Please t
Ir T. McEUEN Sc. Co.
I qU No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February ». eodtf
! "Hoafe and Lots, in Bordentowr..
t r-ipo BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
i 1 with the Lot on which it is ereifted, fituat
r ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
e Village of Bordentown. The house is forty
two feet in front y and in neat order. l ot
" contains one acre, is one hundred feet on J
e the main street, and extends with the fame
n breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, eon
" taining nearly four acres, feparattd from the
" former by back street. One third only ot th«
pnrchafie money will be required upon execut
r ing a deed, ar.d for tbe remainder, such credit
t For turrtier-jarticrfars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, reGding in Bordentown, near
- the premises, who will'fcew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
■t Conveyancer, No. 43, Mulberry-street.
'- December a. 3awtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
-
FOR SALE,'
nnHAT well krewn Estate, called SHREWS
' X BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
e General John gadwaiader, lituate on SafTafrars Ra
ver, in Kent ceunty, Maryland—containing a
bout 19C8 acres of prim: LAND, upwards of 500
®f which are in woows. The BuildiHgs are all ex
cellent, aad confill of a handsome Dwelling House,
r two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
n granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran-,
J ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of Vricfc), C«rn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, U requires but little fencing,
T' and has a good Shad and Herring fifhety. It is
conveniently fitaated for both the Philadelphia and
~ Baltimore markets, with two landings on a nivi
-1 gable river but a lhort fail from Baltimore. There
.s a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
as the piemifes; also, a Variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
3 The whole will ba fold together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which she buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
le Sheep, &c. will also be difpofsd of.—— For further
g particulars apply to Georoe Hastings, on the
r- premises, or to the ftrbferiber, in Philadelphia.
e ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jvm.
cr February 14. law6w
Netu-Tork, February, 1798.
a - PiJOPO^Z,SbyGEORGEFORMAN,
TOR PRINTINC BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix months—entitled
lt p ROOFS of aCONSPIR AC Y ag-.anft
r- J- a 'l 'he Religions and Governments of EU
|e ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
;d Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Col
leded from good authorities
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
W Pnfejfvr of Natural Pbilcfofby, and Secretary to the
'o Royal Society of Edinburgh.
it A am tua res agitur paries cum prtximut ardet.
r ''"IS work will be put to prefsas soon as
fubf.ribers are obtuinecl, and 110 money requir
:l" ed un "l the wosjt is completed— It lhall be print
r- ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of su
e perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat octavo, handsomely bound and lettered
d- —tbe price will be one dollar aad fifty cents,
or Those who procure 12 fubferibers, and become
tt accountable, lhall have a 13th gratis—and the u
in fual allowance to hook fellers.
id
:1- *,* The above work comes from the pen of J.
e- Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
r _ eftimat.Oß : n the literary world—the fa<fts therein
ly recorded are well fuKlautiatc ', and thereafoning
0 . and arguments thence deduced, while they diTco
e- v " tlle f°'.rid judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amule as well a» to in
c. .-' l ' fccn£ us villainy is developed by the
in author Sufficient to appal the ftsutefl heart.—The
in , ° K f r to be apprrhtnded from secret societies is
4t . ar y ° ut 5 the de R f n«racy of human na
ture awfully kUulirat«d, and the hazard of every
deviation irsm the straight path of religion and
oi vutue, mconteltibly pfoved both to the politi-
Z by stubborn 'Und incontro
.rf hG " Forman, Kc. 46,
Id t IVnttaa-Jir at. .ppcfiu tie P.JI. Ofrt, ard ty the re/peel
Custom Holse,
Di.lria of PENNSYLVANIA, March 6tl, 1797,
r T I HE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
1 who may have any account or kaowledge of
the capture or detention of any fljip or vessel, ear.
go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United Staus, refidlng within this Jiftria, by or
under the authority 01 foreign nation', since the .
firfl day of Oflober, 1792, sre particularly reqnef
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collec
tor Port of Philadelphia, as soon at may
be convenient; fpecifying the name of the vessel,
the captain's name, the number of tons, the cfli
mated value of the vessel, if caiidemDtd, the eCi
mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi
ther tarried, and by, or under the authority of
what nation captured, with futh observations as
may be thought necefiary upon the eircuis!lance»
of each cafe, in order that Itaternents thereof may
be tr.rfmstted to the Secretaty cf the Treasury,
who is required to !ay the fame before the Senate
and Houfs of Representatives of the United State*.'
march 7 - ?iot
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the minufi&ore of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House iu
Boston.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of theßoft.n Glass, as it isfo well knows
throughout the United States to be in every ref
pe3 gieat'y superior to any ever imported Irons
Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be cenftantly had by applying to CbarUi F.
Kupfer, at the Glass Hon'.e.
Orders fremthe dillant States robe addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-ftr«er, Boilon.
gf Two or threiijooJ Glaf« makers are want-
I ed at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, may be lure of
I employ, by application to Mr. George L. Lindl, u
the'works. Men without families will be pre
! ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of retaking Crown Window Glass, they wiil meet
' with the fame encouragement.
Bollon, January x 6 a.' —2aw6w
|At a Meeting of the President
I and Managers of the Delaware aed Schuylkill
I Canal Company, February 17th, 1798,
S Rrfalvei, That ten doilarsos each (hare of Stick
- be called for ; and that the Treasurer
give public notice. tWrnf igreetfcle
j to law.
Extracl frca tie Mlmitei. .
GEORGE WORRALL, Secretory.
J AGREEABLE to a resolution of ine President
I and Managers cf the DtUnure and Sclyyliill Canal
. Company, the Stockholders are hereby required to
[ | make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
I refpe.stivc ihares on or before the ill of pril nan,
I to WM. GOVETT, Treasurer.
| February sB. aawtA
Three or four Single Gentlemen,
may be acconsmodated with
- j Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
f I On reafcnable terms, by applying at No. 31,
f North-ilreet, between Fifth ani Sixth-Greets
( I February *3. eod3t
e City Commissioner's Office,
. I January nth, 179!
® J FOR THE INFORMATION OF THF CITIZENS.
l " T'HE following arrangement is made by the
it j 1 said ' IUI
1 Diilridt No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
ftreet,to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
*" be under the fuperioundar.ee of Nicholas Hicks.
ir I «. From the south fide of Mslbrry street, to
I the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
J fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
_ j the north fide sf Spruce street, to be under the
j fuperintendance of Joteph Claypon'e.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
fajith fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu-
I perintendance of Hugh Robert!,
j f£T When pumps are oat of order south of
i High-ftrcet, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
>- 1 corner of South and Fifth-ftreets, or Godfrey Geb
■" j ler, in Fourth, near Chelhut-ftreet ; and north of
0 High-street, to Dixey and Drharrn, in Saffaftas
j street. between Sixth and Seventh-streets.
E, I
y I New-York, Januarys, 17158;
a PROPOSALS
j By Arondt Van Hook,
jj j Proprietor sf the Reading Room ;
y For Publishing by Subscription,
r> j An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland j
j Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
~ CONDITIONS.
in These scarce and very valuable Hiftorica! Me-
J moirs, (which ran through two London adi
_ I tionsin a few months,) will be compriied in %
o j vols.oiflavs, ol 460 pages each.
1- 1 They will be printed on fine paper and a new
le j f jpe, and delivered to Subscriber», neatly hound
e, j and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
:r j ume—one third of the Subscription money tobe
>e j paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re'
J mainder w hen the work iscoropleat.
To Printcrs, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscription?, the usual allowance will
be made.
f I tT Subscription! are taken it the Readisg
' I Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing-
I Office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the differeit
I Bookllores in New-York— Also, by William
n I Young, corner r f Second and Chefnut street, ar.d
j the Editor of the Gazette of the United States a
I Philadelphia.
:e j As soon as a fufficient number of Subfcribert
' I are obtained, the work will be put to preii, and
j com-'eated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb.ao. eodim
ht |
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTS}',
is I A NEW AND INTERESTING WORK, ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
Hon the poLfcE of London,
>0 Containisga detailof the various crimes and ir.if
xi demeaoors, by which public and private proper
ty, arc, at present, injured and endangered :
ie | And fuggeliing remedies for their prevention.
J- I BY A MAGISTRATE,
j A&ing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kant,
j and ElTex ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin-
J. fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
h I don.
m CONDITIONS.
'g This work will be printed in a targe odavo, o«
°" jan excellent Engiiih paper—lt will be delivered to
b e I fubfcribcrs. bonnd in boards, at the moderate price
n- - of One DiUar and a half; although the lad London
he J edition, oa inferior paper jnd meanly bound, is
be 1 now fold at 'wo dollars and half. T« nen-fub
is I fcrfbers the price will be railed.
a " I Whatever entouragement may be given by fuk
r7 I fcription, it will be committed to the profs wirhoat
id j delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady far
>- I publication eady m April.
j Subscriptions will he thankfully foceivedat
I Benjamin Bavies's's bcck-tloie, No 68, Higiv
6, I street, and by of ths otheV bookfellersi* the
rc ' I c 'ty'■ hy GeergeHifl, is Baltimore; and by Saci-
I uel Campbell, and A. Ptvi&mond, in New-York,
j January ji. - :antA