States, - Philadelphia Dally Advertised
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefmit Street.
&UMBER 1763.J
NO 7 ICE.
A S Wtdnefday the ninth instant it appointed
I\ by the Prtfident of the United States, as
a day of Solemn Humiliation, Failing and
Prayer, Notice is hereby give*, that the Baolc
of Pennsylvania will be scut on (hat day, and
that afl payment* which th«n b«oa»e d»e at
Bank, mast he made on die. day preceeding;
the Board of Dire&ofa will meet on Tl»e£iay
the eighth instant, for tfce p«rp<We of Difcoont-
Mg and Notes offered for .lifcoont must there
fore be sent in, the pndiy preceding.
Bi order tjf ttt Beard
JON. SMITH, Cafbier.
may .3. dtß
Real Estate for Sale.
AT the Merchant's Coffee Houfeon Monday
evening the twenty-firfl instant, wiU be
fold purfu*nt to an order form the Orphan's
Court. A thre»flory Brick House, twenty-four
feet front on Great Dotk-ftreet and forty-two
feet daep ; jDogethsr with the Lot twenty four
leet'by eigh'tt-two feet deep, now in the tenure
of Edward Pole, brtnjf part of the estate late of
Kev. Gilbert T.Snowden deceased. The terms
will be made known at the time of SbU, by
Ifoac Snowden, AdnVniftrator.
Edward Pole, Auftioneer.
may 3. diode'ts
Military Colours,
PAINTS.D ON SILK— nV
George Rutter Ess Co.
Portrait «r.d Qrtumental Painters,
IN aiHi* which w>Bua<lure th« hardlhiy* of the
weather without injury, and which for tieatndm
and exaditude of colouring cannot be furpalTed in
th» city.
FLAGS anp DRUMS
lfarniSied wWI dispatch, ®n tha ;m>ft moderate
terras.
Pel traits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accompiilhed in that fupcb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter fledges
himfelf from 10 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of his friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris's Court, back of the Naw
Library.
may 1 d6w
Robert Field,
MINIATURE PAINTER,
Has rcmovsd to No. Walnut street, be
tween Fourth and Fifth street*.
mav j. drw
~ JUST RECEIVED, "
FROM PORT-AU-PRINCE,
And ,FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICERS,
11 o hhds. Coffee
46 tierces * do.
100 barrel# do.
100 bags do
110 hogfoeads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
4 bale* of Cotton 'V-TT Ml -'
a hopflieadsof Cocoa
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Penn-ftrect.
march X*. §
FOR SALE,
ir the subscriber?, No. ji, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Shi/> Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Cox/ijljng ftf
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Cofiaes . Punjum Cloths
Sanaht Gurzeydo.
Humhumi Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulrnuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Pawia Hkfi.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bandannoes 1
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoe* Choppa Komals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various col.
Mack Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
10,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north -weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alfo —A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. d(T
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank ®f Pennsylva
nia, for such Plan of a Banking House,
accompanied with fc&ions and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Dire&ors. The building is
aot intended to exceed 60 feet front, or 100 feet
in depth, and to be so planned as to admit of its
being made fire proot. It is requested that the
plass may be feu' to the Calhier 0/ the Bank, pre
vious to the firfl of June next.
April 19. tuth.ttje
FRESH TEAS.
MR. GHALK, v
JNFOUMS his Friends and the Public, that he
his opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
/it his Circulating Library, No. 75 North Third
street, u here he will be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured !
IMPERIAL, HYSON, I
YOUNG HYjON, f TP ,. «
HYSON-SKIN, r IJiA:s i s
SOUCHONG & BOHEA =
Oti moderate term?."* - '
Coffee. Chocolate an j Loif
april 13. m&ltf
Notice —Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the sor
peration for the relief of poor and dltlrefled
prefoyterian ministers and the poor and diftrefled
widows and children of presbyterian ministers," „
that a meeyn<» of said corporation is to be hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the second presbyterian church in the u
city bi Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such v
business as may then be brought before the a
board. ASHBEL GREEN, v.
Secretary effht Corporation. fr
April 7. , taw 116 mei
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MAT 4, 1798,
For Sale,
mew and faft failing
k 4Br7° h *t ijcker >
d F*a*vso/. Ts,
NOW lY ini 'at Ptue Su : ' K-r toi.gt*) is
sixty eighWeet, breadth toetity feet fix inches,depth
' eigh: feet oiet inches and burthen odc hundred and
J (oaf 69-9 f ton*. Far terms ipply to the Mailer
onboard, or
' GBORGE PLVMStED,
No. 168, South Front Street,
april 26 §4t
, JUST ARRIVED,
Ih tie brigGayofo,«apt. Bingham, from St. Martins
v A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
> a A few groce Forter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
And the said
i ° BRIG,
■e - Also, FOR SALE,
• Enquire of
Jehu HcUingfworl/j £s* Co.
No. az, Little Water ftr«et, South.
aprit 10. §
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
fcrtbers, 011 Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails aflbrtcd
10 bales «f fail canvass, from No. x to 8
53 callts yeH.iw ochre
1 5 rlerees bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
c particular ) Ms( . ciril wines
s India market )
„ Teneriffe do. in hogsheads and pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Em"ty Clawt bottles
6 caiifs of Ginghams, Dimitir*", MttHinets ice.
e aborted forth© Weit-Tndia mai4cet
4, 10, and 9 iiwb cables and 10 toils of cordage
, Writingflates, iijk Hands and pteffes
e 30 purcheons Jamaica nun
s I bale learning twine
1 160 bundles Iheathing paper
s THS Bi,s
AMAZON,;
r Fnr Sale, or Charter.
r Nichlin (3? Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
. ~ for saleT
:SsKS}H.vannah Sugar
200 Hides
• WiH be landed to morrow, at Wtilings and Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig A&ive, Wili
iam Williams, master.
faid Brigforfale,
m »y ta ' te ' n "nniedi
¥ ately after discharged.
Apply to
J»hu HoUingfworth & Co.
march 30. ■ §
For Hamburgh,
TO! S |J '
IioMTWICM Terry,
J°^ n Fletning, Majier,
Having great partof her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
JeJfe (ff Robert Wain.
February »6 \
tV A N T £ D, ""
APPROVED BILLS on Amfterdam—for which
ca(h will be given at the rate of thirty seven cents
per guilder. Enquire of the Caihier of the Bank
of the United States. § april 23.
LANDING,
Fram on board the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paifiic,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Sobicribek,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 canilltrs SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, juh. .
april 17- §_
Thomas Ss* Joshua Fisher,
HAVt FOR S4LI,
At No. J, Dock-(lreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and coffee
cups and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pnngem cloths, eheppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and umbrellas,
7*ogethcr with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Sd. iod. Ltd. and »O<J. nails
Shot—T. Crowley ft eel, Spanilh brown and white
lead
Eaglilh scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
IU barrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
AcommodiousStoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three llories high, suitable for
any business.
4rhmo.s?h stf
For Sale,
»Y THE SUBSCRIBER, NO- 10, CHESNV* I STREET,
11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on reasonable terms on a Jhort
credit.
Robert Hcnderfon.
a P r 'l 1 . mw&s4w
N O T I C~E.
THE Partnerlbip of the fubferibers, tridm" un
der che firm of PAXSON RICHARD
SON, was diflolved on the sixth of the third month
last, by mutu 1 consent. All persons indebted -
thereto are earneilly requested to make payment ; i
and those that have any demands again ft the fame, i
are desired to present their accounts for settlement
to cither of the fubferibers. i
Ifaat Paxjon, i
Nathaniel Riehardfon.
Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, 1798.
ISAACfPAXSON,
Continues to carry on the business at the usual
place, No. to, South Third street, where he has
on hand a large aJTortttiant of Ironmongery, Sad
dlery, Cutlery and Brass Wares, which he will fell \
wholefalu or retail, on low terms, for ca(h or ths
usual credit. He expedls to Deceive by the fir!l a:
ve(!els from London, Bristol, Liverpool and Hnll, t(
a large addition to his present all'ortracnt; and
will execute with punctuality and care any orders n
from he former cuftomcrs, aud his friends in gen- ,ji
eral. aaw4w
FORI SALE,'
g (By Poflponement y J
At Public VcnJue, an the 71 h of Ma* next, it
!j 7 o'clock in tlie evening, at the Mcrchuts'
Cotfee-Hotrfr,
is THE FOLLOWING
*j PRODUCTIVM. REAL ESTATES r
ld No. 1. A fooi T STORY BRICK
* r HOUSE, to feet front, and 13 witti
the privilege of a four feet a!! ? y. If n situated
( in Piuujb-ftrcet, between Frimt and Second
ftreett.in a and improving part of^South-'
- wark.
4. A penteel three-Aory brick House in Front
19 street, betweeiyßace and Vine streets, No. 171,
north—it goes through to Water street, where
it is five ftcrics High, the whole in conopleat re
pair, and rented for 609 dollars per ann.
3. A haodforae, well tni(hc4 three-ftcry
bricl House, in south Second street, No. i6j,
it is 30 feet front, and 45 feet deep. The Lot
runs through to Bock-street, on which is built
a goodtwo-ftory brick house: The-whale was
let before repaired for 800 doHars and the taxes.
4 A well built three-story brick house, fitu
atcd in Chrfnut-flreet, between Front and Se
cond streets, being 18 feet front, and about jtoo
- feet deep, running through to Taylor's alley,
- on which it is feet front, with,a coaeh-hoiife
and stable. There are ten good rtroms in com
pleat repair, and cellar under tlie whole, clrarof
gronnd rent and ev*y other incuwibranie.
5. A good Pllatltion, firua-ej near Hights-
Town, East N"ew-Je*fey, containing 186 acres,
well improved land, vyith plenty of "woodland,,
orchard and meadow', in a Imltby fituati'm and
a good neighbourhood.
6. Another Plantation adjamiiig the preced
ing, containing alio 186 acres. On which is a
frame biufb iiud flihl*, trim a Inrpo orchard of
grafted good fttll iff waters ami a large
e body of lwamp, well .timbered.
7. Also another plantation, adjoining the
firft mentioned ; it contains 186 acres, part of
which it good meadow, a large quantity of val
uablt fwainp, a very convenient farm house,
barn, stable, and a good new well of excellent
water,
Also, a number of BUILDING LOTS, 100
feetfiont (on the great,road leading to Amboy)
and jOO feet deep ; adapted particularly for
tradesmen.
For further particulars or purchase at private
fa!e, apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, fen. or,
KOBERT E. GRIFFITH.
_ april 28. >88c3»Ai,4,6, 7 M_
* The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North Anerican Land Company, (landing
on the Books tf (aid Company in the name of
Dan el Lifter, of in the county of Mid
' dlefcx, England—\ie. No. aijt, representing
" 1309610 13105,
13°75. ten ftares—Uo. 2149—13056 to 1306J,
ten (hares—No. 2148— 1150910115 ig, ten ihares
—No. 1147-T11471 ® 11480—Amonntmg to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by tkc
(hip Williau Penn, whic'» having been captured,
said certificate, are fuppofej to be loft j for the rc.
- mad i lo the
Daniel N/al Lijtrrr~
may 1 - *d6w
A Country Seat.
TO BE LET for the funjnrr fcafon or by the
year, the greater pan of a large House, in
. a high, healthy fit nation, above the eight mile
stone, on the Or rmantown read (occupied only by
1 a newly married couple)—-snath (fabling and con
s venience for keeping a carriage. For farther par
t ticulars, enquire ol Caspar ti. Haines, in Ger
mantowa, or the fubferiber, on the preroifss.
HEZEKIAK HUNTSMAN,
may 1, 2awjw
' LANDED THIS DAT,
From on board the (hip A let aider, capt. Brown,
from Jacquemel, at Wilcpcks' wharf, about
80,000 wt. of fine Green Coffee
in hogflieads, barrels aid bags
For Sale—apply to
John Whttfidct y Co.
' WHO HAS ONHAND,
Claret of the firft qiality, in cases
1 a P r 'l 3°- §6t
Ross y S mson,
HAVE FOR ttLS, ,
22 bales superior Milraft blue Cloths 1
Carolina Indigo, firft qiality
A few bales Baftas, Cofiei, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bag and boxes
Jamaica and>
Bengal J RUM t
april ao 5 a
~L AND ING y ~ |
From on board the SHp Sally, from >
Calcutta , f
AND rot 1AI« BY THt SUSSCRIIIR,
1600 bags prime Sugar, ]
800 do. tinger si
30 bales low priced pece Goads. Ii
John Vliller, Jun. !!
maf ch 3 « § ii
TO BE SOLD,
4°,939 acres of Land. f,
IN Greene County, Commnwealth of Pennfyl- 11
vania, in the waters ofFifh and Wheeling fr
Creeks and Ten Mile Ran. ° "
These Lands are fertile ani well timbered, and
-abound in Coal ; they wercold ten years ago for "
five (hillings per arre ; pateied early in 1787, ex
cept 37°0 acres, which wee patented in 1791; m
part of them were furveyedin 1783. The trail
is between the Ohio and Moongahela, very con- te
venient to water carriagc.about 19 miles from p t
the town of Wafhiogton, fr«i 14 to 16 from the in
village of Greenefburgh andWheelmg. th
On payment of one lounl of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit wiilbe given for the refi- D
Ur; " Enq-ire of the Vriotcr.
April »f.
TO BE SOLD, ~
acresof Land, de
IN the State of New York, jetwaen the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania a>d the Safquehanna
now, or late in the towniips of Hamden and te i
Warren and county of Warm. of
These Lands, (romthtir (uality and Ctuation,
are a very desirable objedl ftt any man who means c [ >
to his money to advattage.
On payment of one thirc of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafonable credit wi } c given for the refi
tJue - Eo.jiireof the Printer,
april jr, , j
Germantown and Reading Turn
pike Road Company.
it ' | 'HE Subftribers CommilTioi.rrs appointed by
tt' X*nA Aof Aficmbly of this Csmtnonwcalth
erititled," An i£i to enable the of (his
CommonwMlCh to incprpouate * ii» for
• r waking an Titificia! Uoxd from the.city oi Ph -
~r ladelphia, through Okriaantown, by the rout
'1 of Chelinut Hili, to the twelv« mil* Done on
1 , she Reading Road, and thence to Reading in the
County ps hereby give netice, that books
j, , are provided as the Jaw direils, and that we
will proceed to receive fubfcriptioiisfor tke com
pany'* Rock on the iSth, 19th, and 10th days
j of May nest, at the City Hall, in the eity of
' Philadelphia,at the Tavern o£ William Bucliois,
in. Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the oounty of Berks, and at thf
Tavern of GeoVge Phleger, in Potts-T»wn-in
• the county of Montgomery,,on the
from ten o'clock in the morning, untii two o'
clock, P. M. an each day, when aud wber* cer-.
ss tain of the Cpnrni iflioners will attend to receive
fubferiptioni accordingly.
' april 14th, 1798.
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
e " CASPAR W. H AlNi:s,
,0 SAMUEL BET lON,
Y ' GEORGE LOG f>N,
e JOHN FROMBERGER,
f ISAAC FRANKS.
01 JPS HEISTER,
J. BO WE It,
DANIEL ROSE,
7 S/VMUEL CAVEP»TY,
,J . ©jIORGE DOUGLASS, jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fiftten Dollarj ta be paid OB ea«h
(bare atthetirae of fubferibiog.
3 f api J l7 —eodtjow
'• ' „ The Annual Eleit!bo
FOR Directors and a Treafum of the Librsry
Company of Philadelphia, will be held at the
Library, in Fifth street, 011 Mendav, the jch of
'* May next, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
-> the TreaJ'arer wilt attend to receive the annual
at payments.
As there are several (hares on wbich finei are
10 due, the owners of them, or their reprefsntatives,
•) are hereby notified, that they will be forfeited, a
)r greeably to the laws of the company, unless tbe
arrears are paid off on the said 7th day of May,
t e or within ten days after.
By ord-rqf th« Directors,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN, Stcretary.
April 7 jaw
Just Publi&ed,
S And to be had at the Book-(lores of Meflrs. Dsa
g son, Campbell, Young and Okmkod,
in Philadelphia, ~
1- OBSERVATIONS
g On the Caules and Cure of Remitting cr Bilious
o Fevers.
'/*# xubicb it aßnextd,
•s AH ABSTRACT of the opinions and praAice of
0 different authors ; and an APPENDIX, exhib
e itmg interefling fails and rtflefiions relative to
i, the Synuhut IStrtMr, or Yellow Fever, whieh
1. has occasioned (o much distress and mortality,
le at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of thf United a:.i ~of Anrriea.
BY WILLIAI.f CURRIfi,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Fhyficians,
and Member of the American Philoiephica4 So
ciety. Feb. j—*;?ms
1 For Sale,
c 'T'HE time of a NEGRO LAD, who has a
y X bout three years to serve—He is perfei9ly
. capable of and ui'ed to all kinds of house work ;
■- has also been accustomed to wait at fable. A
- purchaser refilling in the country would be pre
ferred. Enquire of the Printer.
April ia. eodjw
FOR SALE,
1, Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &e. situate on
Water street, between Mulberry an-J Saflafras
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix' inches. These houses
have the convenience of a publ'c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour faftor, or others
who may have ocealion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for ra(h. For further information apply
i t« the printer.
ap'-'l 5 mfcwtf
r Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrafl hit bufv- 1
oefs, offers this Estate (or sale, on moderate ]
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with pair of (tones.; also a good Forge, all
in pcrfeft repair, a. are all the Water Works connea
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State. —There are about two thousand acres
of half of which i s under wood, the other ,
verv fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately mannfadured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not oue of sixty-nine gans
lately made, although some of the 84 were bored
into qz pounders, have failed on proving. The situ- .
ationis very eligible, particularly for this braach of
manufafture, and a place of arms lying in tbe state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land
nigs on the Hudson's river, and kaving every advan- ,
tage that can result Irom a plenty of water issuing 5
from a large natural pood, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can b» accommodat
ed wnh all theftockand utensils, andhavs possession
onor before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be madein themeanumcforgoinginto Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal. Ore, &c. Ac. For
terms, apply to Mr. ]ofeph Anthony, in Philadel- -
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Rcorefentawves
in Congress Eor this State ; Mr, l>,vid Watetman, on
theprenKfcs, or totheproprieior in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON. C
*' 3>wtf '
NOTICE.
HTHREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
J. Debt of the United States of the fallowing
description, viz -No. rooj 3 , 10034, and ,oo 3J , ~
for ioco dollarsaach, dated SSthMay, i 79 7, arid
ftan»ing on the books of the Treasury of the Uni- C
ted States, in thf name of Benjamin Waddit.gton V
of Lanover House near Ab.rgavenney in England,' C.
Esq. have been 101 l by the capture ol (he (hip Bac
chus, from hence to London, in J«ne lall —This
therefore Kotifies those who-n ,t may c»ncini that
api licajion will.be mad.- at the Treasury of the U-
a renewal of thefc.r.e. u
Waddiri%tsr. & Harwood.
marth " 55V7
\VciUMk Xlll.
Madeira Wih«.
A few pip?s or r*markahlj fine Ivf»deifa, fit
by f'or immrdiite 14ft, and « 1 reduced urjc:—For
Ith J AMIS YARD,
bit t. <i»w
°[ DillHlery to Let,
nu contains 800 pilous—one 400 gtllral, |ri
, tke otlwr goo gallons—together with pumpil.td
V L " cittern*, all in sumpleat order itii may be catered $..
' immediately- Alio, lyobufhcti of excellent Vi<-
I'C ginia Coil which v.ere brtni<hi for'tne above works
B- *nd win be fcjld cheap. For further oartKulais ei.-
jr» uireof Jo«n M<C<t»tir, t4o. 73, South Secci. J
of «: rc et, or at his Copper Waichouie, No, 89, Soutfc
!S j j S ont Street.
r> N'. B A small parcel of thin Copper fit for
r (heathing or building—a few boxes of Tin—one new
Hill aud worm complex itwt will hold 3*o gallons,
" and oue fccond dill that will held 550 galioi.s, for
s » He—enquire as ofcove.
°* m *y * ' '
r- tVANTED '
' e A Good Cook—also a Man
Servant who cndcrlhnds House work. Noc*
but of good seed apply—Enquire at
' Jhia
may t It
*" Ma/Jiichujetts Dtjtri&,
By Order ef the Honorable Johw Lowell,
Efquirf, Judge of the Diftriii Court for
th- iViaflacfmfetts Oiftndt,
„7"VTOTtCB js hereby £ ; vert to all peffeaa
i-N concerned,'.' Thai a Libel i» Died in hii
Court by Ciiriliyin G . Grutimacher, lire- Corn
.jj mander of tfrt finp C'etoni, of and irwn Ham
bu*gh, and Htcry Andrew H«i*s m ijtKi lat
the envnert of said Ship, against sundry poods,
war« »«d merphandits, fated from iid G.rn
Corona, wrecked 011 Cape Cod within said Du«
ry itiA oa the 16th March last—which goods,
ie wares aud merchandise, were coiifiyßed to di
of vers perl'ons in Philadelphia, ia the Diftu<3 of
;n Pennsylvania, and tlfewhere—and thet fahl Li*
al bel is filed as a torefaid, for the freight said to be
due ta the Libelants on said goods, \iaree and
re merchandize, aßd for neceflary expences paid
rs i by them which have arisen upon the fame—
a" And that trial will be had upon the aforelaid
ie Libel at a Diflridt Court to be h olden at the
y> Court-House in Boston, on Monday the eigh
teenth day of June next, at 11 o'clock, A, M.
SAMUEL BRADFORD,
" Marjhal of Majf'acbufettt
Dated at Lofton, Slpril i .
a.W,t 7 ,8. ( tawtf
IMPORTED, < •
In the Brig Ben j a m in Franklin,fibm
Boutdeaux,
IS AND FOR SALB B* Till iUBSCtIICt,
Claret in casks
Whits wine in half calks
jf Sweet oil of a superior quality in boces and baficett
)- Lunelle "\
o Sauterne . f .... . _ .
h Macarty, and f W.ae. m Cafe..
f t Mcdoc j
ft ' Thomat Tfurgatrayd,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
s, Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes latitled
). Irish market "» , C t o
Medoe, and Sau'erne j ln c * , 3 drawback
~ Sherry wine in pipesaud quarter caikt
Rota
1- Pimento in bags
y Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
j albout 4000 bulhels 1 iverpool Salt.
V __marchi, mw&ftf
- Red Clover Seed of the beftquaHty.
MADEIRA WINS,
Old, and fit for immediate life, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter caiks.
Teneriffe Wine,
B And, Window Glass—all of which will be fold
, on very reafsnable terras, by
John Craig,
march T w *tf No. iz, l)ock Street.
* The Co-partner{hip of the Subfcribcrs,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson Co.
s Ts this day dissolved by mutual consent, all those
■ A having claims againd said firm, are desired to
• render their accounts, and those indebted to make
' payment to Joseph David fun, whoii duly autho
rised to-f«ttle the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
JOSEPH DWID.SQN.
N. B. TTieStores at the corner e! Market and
■ Fourth Streets'are now to be let.—Enquire of lo
! feph Davidfon. ,
' •"? r;l aC w&«m
BRAND T.
The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
FROM CtTTE,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's (Irett
wharf.
100 pipes 4th proof 7 „ ,
160 do id do. jL,noice Brandy
Provence white Wine, in pipes
Hazlenuts and Filberts, in Tacks
A few Almonds, RaiCns, & c .
For Sale by
Piter Blight.
who also orrcxs ro* sai»,
200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, in sacks
Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
no hhds. Jamaica Su»ar
JO do. do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipe,, hhds. and qr.caflc,
Madeira, London particular, in pines ve-v
superior ''
—iEj Haw eoti 7Nt
SALT P El RE.
One hundred kegs of rtfined Salt Petre
For Sale by the Subscribers.
Jamc, C. & Samuel IV. Fi/ler,
„ , No. 13, Arch Street
m » 4 tawtf
Joseph Ricaudo,
0 F thi ' r Cit3 L' " erchan *. ha » alligned his pro-
W perty for the beaefit of his Creditor,, uJ. raf ,
C. Filhtr, Samuel W. Fifhcr, and Thomas U ..rc Q .
All persons who have demands arerc
lheir account! deJav—
and those indebted toTOake immediate parme-r
the Subscribers, aSing l °
James C. & Samuel IV. Fiber.
, No. Arch Street,
ma f CAM e
4fawcfCON G R ESS. <
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. ■;
_ ' '
llllit, APRIL 10.
Ptbalf on the additional Naval Armament- ]
(ConelwUd from fefietdaj i Gazette.)
The question on the sum of money to be
sppropriated coming underconlideration, (
Mr. S. Smith moved to strike out 950,00 a
dollars, and to insert in its place 1,200,000.— *
This motion was not feconaed, and the inoti
«n for gjO.ooo was then put and carried. j
The amendment for striking out sixteen vef
'fcls, and inferring twelve, being under view, |
Mr. Setgrraves called for the yeas and
nays on this question, which were agreed t®
be taken.
Mr. Livincstox said he (hould be in fa
vour of the lafgeft nupiber of veflels—for
though he was decidedly agsinft the employ
ment of this armament' as convoys, because
he believed such an employment of them
would have ap unavoidable tendency not on|y
to involve this country in war with Franee,
but with England, and All the other bellige
rent powers, and becaule no inftruition* which
the President can give will prevent it. Since
this tfcas th» Cafe, he believed twelve veflels
would be totally inadequate to such a state of
thing-. He had (aid it was the unavoidable
tendency—for what, he asked, was the object
of cenvoyst fiy they are to be
used to rcfift infringements upon the laws of
nations, or of treaties; and if this to be
the use of (hem, war must doubtless ensue j
for France ha* decreed that veflels (hall be
lawful prize in cases w'iicJi are contrary to the
laws or nations aivi of treaty; Great 3ritain
ha* done the £»vr>e ; and it must he flowed,
that if we shall have to engage all these pow
ers, twelve veflels will not be fufficient. On
th?contraty, Congress ought now, since this
decision had been come, to go into effe<Stual
roeafufes, if in war, for he confnlered the
country now in a state of war ; and let no
nan, laid he, flatter himfelf that the vote
wrtich has been given is not a declaration 6f
war. Gentlemen know that this is the cafe ;
and now they have concurred inphmging the
country in war, they ought to come forward
and provide the means for our' defence ; but
he did not wonder that tlic'y tremble and faj.il- I
ter, now thuy are at the lalt step to oe taken j
a step which tbey had been endeavouring frf
ascomplifh for many years pad; a war wit li
France, which they had so long wifiied, is
now 'accomplished ; at a period, too, when
v.e are Ukely to be left alone to sustain the
frock, when almost all the powers of Europe
have fallen under her force, or become ailies
in her schemes. We ought, he said, to con
cert mtanes of attack; for we (hould not have
to wage defenfive, but offenfive war also.
Now, said he, let us fee who is poflefled of
American feelings; let us fee whether thole,
.who call members cowards, and devoted to
*he service of another country, or those so
calumniated, poflefs the truest American feel
ing. As to these flanders theinfclves, lie
fliould always treat them as they merited ; he
eoiWdered himfelf'as dignified a character as
arty man who made the charge. [The Spea
ker called to order and Mr. L. fat down.]
Mr. Har r er was glad the gentleman from j
New-York would for'once in his life be con
fident and support the decifionsof a majority,
and that this flujb of his would not end in
fmoak. If the dignity of this Hou(e would
have permitted him to (ay so, he (hould have
said tire gentleman had made a very fillyfpeccb.
He Could not imagine what had giv*« rife to
it, except that to * gentleman .found himfelf
disappointed, in not havuigbeen able tocar
ry the amendment which had been negatived.
As to ths furficiency of this force, he did not
believe it was contemplated to fight France
■nd preat Britain, and for a good rcafon, be
eaufe it was not neceifary to fight them both.
If Great Britain lhall not only perfeverein her
present measures, but after infringing the
laws of nations and of treaties lhall follow it
up by decrees which will amount to agenerj
-onfiftation of our trade, and infeead of list
ening to our applications to get them altered,
stall drive otir Miniftcrs out of the country,
he fliould then be ready to go to-war with
vGreat Britain. At present, however, he saw
no catife of war agamft her, though he saw
occasion for negociation and remonstrance. —
For the pr:fent, he wifted to confine our
views to one of the belligerent powers whose
injuries all allowed had given jo® cause of
war to this country. He did not mean, Mr.
H. said, to prepare measures for ofte'nfive
v/ar, and he believed w hat the gentleman had
said or. this fubjett was one 01 those pufts
•i hich were introduced for no other purpose
than tcround otf a period ; and he was afton
jflied that any gentleman could get his own
tonfent thus to impose upon himfelf.
Mr. Srroreaves said, he called for the
yeas and nays, in onler that he might have an
opportunity of recording his dident to tlie.re
daction of the number of veflels agreed to by
the Senate. He thought it an improper time
to agree to an amendmant of this kind ; he
did not think it proper,, jj. tb&JPffaU. Cri.&S,
to (haw symptoms of distrust, weakness or ti
midity. As the bill proposed sixteen veflels
when it came from the Senate, he did not
with to reduce the number to twelve ; efpeei
ally as it was allowed that sixteen veflels
would not be too many, and the only reason
so* reducing the number was, that a greater
number could not he immediately got ready
in the recess of Congress ; but having no
doubt that if sixteen veffils are neceirary, the
President would be able to procure them, he
{hould be ag&inftConcurring with the amend
ment of the committee of the whole.
Mr. Livingston was proceeding to re
mark upon wh;»t had fallen from the gentle
man from S. Carolina, of a personal nature,
whin the Speaker called to order and h: fat
dawn. ,
The question on concurring with the a
mendment fcported by the committee of the
whole, for striking out (ixteen and inferring
twelve, was then taken by yeas and nays as
follow :
Yeai—MefT. Baldwin, Bard, Blount, Brent,
Bulloik, Burgess, T. Claiborne, W. C. Clai
borne, Coit. Davis, Elmendorf, D. l'ofter,
Fowler, Gallatin, Gregg, Grove, Harper,
Harrilbn, Havens, Heirter, Holmes, Jones,
Locke, Lyman, I.yon, Matthews, Macoa,
M'Clenachan, M"Dowel!, Milledge, New,
fofiah Parker, Reed, Shcpard, Skinner, S.
Smith, Spracue, Sumter, Stanford, Tilling-
Jiaft, A. T rig it, J. Trigg, Van Conlandt,
Varnum, J. Willums—4.s.
Hay, Melfrs. Allen, Bartlett, y Brodks,
ChampKn, Cochran, C'Taik, Dana, Dennis,
Dawfon, Evans, Findlay, A. Foster, J. pree
nan, N - . Freethin, Glen, Goodrich, Gordon,
Grifwold, Hartley, Hind.nan, Hofiucr, 1 mlay.
' Livinnftori, Macliir, Morris, Otis, Pinckney,
Rutledge, Schureman, Scwall, Sitgreaves,
N- Smith, Thatcher, Thomplon, Thomas,
Van Alen. Wadfworth—yj.
Mr. Gallatin then renewed his motion
for limiting the use of these ve(Tel», which
was taken by yeas and nays asfollow :
Yeas —Mel!'. Baldwin, Bard, Blount, Brcnr,
Bnrgcfs, T. Claiborne, W.C. Claiborne, Da-
vit,, Rlmerdctf, Vii.dlev, Fowler, j 1<
Gallatin, Gregg, Harrtion, Havens, Heifier, <1
Holmes, foiies, LivinpTlon, Locke»i Lyon, ,
Macon, M?.C<enacliati, New, Skinner, Stan
ford, Siiinxer, A. Trigg, J. Trigg, Vau.Cort
landt, Varnum—j».
Najs—MefT. Allen, Bartlett; Brook*, Bui- t
lock, Champlin, Cochran, Coit, Craik, Da- t
na ( Dennis, Evans, A. Fofler, D. Foster, J.
Freeman, N» Freeman, Gillefpie, Glen, Goo-
drich, Gordon, Grifwold, Groves, Harper,
Hartley, Hindman, Mofnier, linlay, Lyman,
Macliir, Matthew Sj Milledge, Morris, Otis, *
JoTuh Parker, Pincknsy, Reed, ftutledge, |
Schurentan, Sewall, Sitgreaves, Shepard, t
N. Smith, S. Smith, Sprague, Thatcher, Tho- j
nus, Thompson, TillingTialt, Van Alen, (
NVadfworth, J. Williams—jo. . _ •:
Th? bill y/ai then ordered to Be read a third
time on Mo'ndiy, and the Houit adjourned
at ( o'clock.
Monday, April 23.
Mr. FINpLiY obtained leave of abfenee (
for Mr. Gregg, for ten days ; Mr Galla
tin *or Mr. Hartley for seven days; Mr
Chajupun for Mr. Gordon, for the remain
der of the Feflion; Mr. N. Freeman and
Mr. Nicholas also obtained leave of ab
fenee, for themselves during the remainder of 1
the feflion. 1
Mr. Varnum presented twj petitions, one !
from the freeholders and others of Harvard,
and the other from Lexington, both in the
State of Maf&chufetts, against the arming of
♦merchants vdffels, exptelfing their desires for .
a continuance of peace, and that every pofli
ble means may be taken to avert so great an
evil as war would be to this country.
Mr. Imi.ay presented «n Address to the
President and both houses of Congrels, from
Princeton, Kingston, Montgomery and New-
Windsor, in the State of New-Jersey, appro
tjng tile conduit of the Executive in our Ne
gociation with France as temperate and wife,
and dating that they have with disdain
the infamous propofalsol'theagentsof France
towards this country ; that having broke the
yoke crt one tyrant, they wifti not to be dic
tated to by another, and plejige their lives,
fortunes and Honour in support of the govern-r
melit of the United Status, either agamrt fo
reign enemies, or dQmeflic traitors ; they de
precate war, but t'h<;y feetyeve no evil (ran be
fal tJus-coOnUy (o greaf as that" of becoming
dependant or, the wilf of a Foreign -Nation J
they trJSt thiltthe divifioVii Which have here
tofore appeared in Congress, and which have
:;ive» ground, in their opinion, to a Foreign
Power to commit the injuries uppn us which
they have done, will in future dilqppear, and
that unanimity will prevail for taking such
measures as (hall secure us against the attacks
of any Nation whatever.
This address and the foregoing petitions
were referred to the committee of the whole
on the State of the Union.
Mr. D. Foster, fromthe committer of
claims, reported a bill refpefling loancTflice,
final (ettlement certificates and indeats ofin
tereft, and the unfundd sr registered debte
credited on tjie books of the treasury, which
was committed for Wednesday.
On motion of the fame gentleman, th« re
port of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the
memorials of Jonathan Jack.Con and Abel
Whitney, was referred to the committee of
Ways and Means.
On motiort of Mr. Coit, the committee of
the whole'tO whom was referred the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury on the memori
al of sundry merchants of Philadelphia, on
the fubjeft of erecting Piers in the River De*
laware, was referred to the committee of
commerce and manufaftures.
The bill for grovUiinff an additional arma.
ment toir the further proteJtion of the trade
ot the United States, and for other purposes,
palfed 41 to 26.
The bill from, the Senate eftablilhing an
Executive Department to be denominated
the Secretary of th,e Navy, .was twice read and
eommitted for to-morrow.
The house severally relblved itfelt mtQ
Committees ps the whole on the bill lor the
relief of Reuben Smith and Nathan Strong
and Pierre Aupoix, and on the bill for the
relief of Obadiah Brown, which were agreed
to, and ordered to be read a third time to
morrow.
On motion of Mr. W. C. Claieorhe,
the house relblved itfelt" into a committee of
the whole on the report of the Secretary of
War 011 the petition of Stephen Cantril; and
the report and papers accompanying it were
read. The report was as follows :
" The S crftsry of War, to whom was re
ferred the Petition of Stephen Cantrill, re
fpei'tfully reports, That the services for which
the petitioner prays compenf'tion to himfelf
and a company which he commanded, weriJ
performed in the month of September,
anno expedition conducted by Major James
Oie,ihto the LowerCherokee country, which
issued in the deftruftion of two cooQderable
Indian towns, the Running Water and Nic
kajick, the killing of a number of indianso
and the taking ibeut tweu y p ifoaers.
" That the report of Major Ore to Gov
ernor Blount, dated at Knoxville, the 24th
September, 1794, fliews, that this expedi
tion marched on the fcrenthof thefarae month,
and was ordered by General Robertfon of
Mero diftri£t.
" That the orders of General Robertfon
for this purpoie were afterwards communica'-
ed by himfulf to Governor Blount, in a letter
dated the Bth Odtobcr, 1794, detailing hib
reasons for the order.
** That letter} from Governor Blount to the
Secretary ef V\ ar, dated the 22d of Sep
tember, and id of October, 1794, as well as
the copy of an order, which he states to have
been the last, given by him, to general Ro
bertfon, previons to this expedition, evince
that the governor did not fan&ion the mea
sure.
"That the Secretary of War, previous to
Major Ore's expedition, in a'letter to Gov.
ernor Blount, dated the 26th July, 1794,
llrong'y discouraged the idea of deAroyiag
the lower town* of the Cherokees, in the sol
lowing words, viz. " With refpeist to def
" troying the lower towns, however rigorous
'• such a tieafurc might be, or whatever good
•< consequences might result from it, 1 am
*' ii.ftruded fp dally by the President to fay,
<' that We doe: not conceive himfelf authovre
•• ed to direct any such measure, more elpe
" cially a- the whole fubjedt yas before he
" latt S. ffion of Ccngrels, who did not think
" proper to authorise or direct offenfive ope
" rations," And that a» soon as the dtf
truction yf the Running Water and Nic
kajack w.n communicsted to him. the Sec
-1 r«ary strongly d favowed a".y participation
' in the bnlinefi, by his letter to Governor
Blount, dated the 29th December, (794, in
. these words, viz. The «1< Itisdion of the
ltiNy Cherokee itanJii ijM*s its nw
" fa«ti;ig ; it was not aittf,VW" d '•"
'• tain."
'« Thai the Prefideut at Till ti'ws, as
before as after this piy»Ab#<(i <&da»yV)tU'C'l
to confine the protc&.on of the honttt rs o;
tli<Sou h Wcftern Territory todelevtfiw ope •
rations, and to leflrsUl from tboia wiiich
wcre offenfive.
'» That on the v»lv6le, it appears, the let
'vicC3 for which co.npenfation isprayed by the
petition of § ephen Cantrill, were performed
on an expedition,olfcnfive, unauthorized and
in direst violation of the orders from the < i en
dent to Governor'Blount, by whom also they
were not fanftioned.
" The documents referred to, other*
cotinedlfrf with t\c fubjeft, are herewith pre
fenUd. nufiibtried-froip No. I to g inchifive.
«• All which is refpeftful'.y fubroittrd to
the House of Rrprefenta ives.
JAMES M'HENRY."
War-Of/ice,
April, 1798./ V
The reading' being (irfVflieii Mr, W. C.
Claiborne (aid, that, in his opinion, this
claim was founded on the principles of j ill
tice ; and he trulled every member who had
attended t# the reading of the documents,
must accord with himMn opinion, tftat the
Nickajack expedition undertaken by Major
James Ore in 1794, into the Lower Clierokee
country, was authorized by General Robert -
son ; and it remains now to be decided whe»
ther soldiers fta'l not be entitled to pay, until
they have previously aCTnred themselves «f
the legitimate authority of their commanding
officer At a time when this expedition was
set on foot, the war raged between the Uni
ted States and the Cherokee Nation of Indi
ans, the horrors of which bore hard upon the
diftrift of Mero v'the very exigence, of the
fettlemenr was threatened ; Jfcarceiy a day
patted without some one or other of the inha
bitants, or of their icqtiaintance, being mur
dered, Information was received that the
Indian? were'embodied, in order to carry war
into the fettle menf. What was the general
to do I "Was he to (land (till without making
any attempt so avert th« danger ? The faft
ty of the people required liiio to ,and he
struck dye fir# btow, which was a deftnfivo
meafu,rc,authorized by the ufoge of ail Nati
ons. The citizens on this .expedition obey
ed the command of their officer; <he.y did not
think it neCessary to enquire by what autho
rity he afted ; all for them !« be afeertained
of was, that he was an officer «f the United
States, and this they well knew, a? this was
not the firft time they had served under him.
Without a difeipiine of this kind no military
operation could be csftried on. General Ro
bertfon aftedalfo under the authority of Go
vernor B'ount, who a&ed undert+ieorders of
the PreCJtnt of the United Stales. Having
then performed this duty—a duty too which
put an end to a war which rrijjht have cost
the United States a million of dollars—he
trusted tbe petitioners would be compensated
for their ferviccs. The amount, he believ
ed, would not be more that? about 4,000 dol
lars, as the party was oujonly twelve days.
To effect this purpose, h» proposed the fol
lowing refohition for the jdoption of the com
mittee :
" Resolved, that the pnper officers be direifted
to fett'e the aseounts of tie Militia who served on
the expcdicion commandid by major Jjmes Ore a
gainst the Cherokee Indent, in the year 1794-'
This resolution Wis agreed to without op
position. The committee ro(e; and after
lome ftp--—s'teu •" ■»'
thehaufe, and a committee appointed to re
port a bill accordingly.
A metfage was received from the President
of the United States informing the house that
, he had approved ind signed an aft to autho
rise a loan for the city of Washington, and
an aft for reimburing certain expences of the
Canfuls of the Unted States.
The Senate, bf meifage, informed the
house that they had pasTed the bill for an ad
ditional regiment «f Artillery and Engineers.
Mr. D. Fostii called for the second rea
ding of a report w-kich he made some days a
go on-fereral petitions for pensions, which
was unfavouble. On motion of Mr. joliah
Parker, the repori was committed for to
morrow.
NEW-YORK, May 2.
By the Schr. St, Patrick, in 15 days from
Curracoa, we are iiformed that the Captain of
a French privateerof it guns belonging to
Gaudaloupe, declaed in pretence ofa number
of Americans that lp.had orders to -put to the
- sword all neutrals who Ihould make any resis
tance, and that Vitor Hugues said, it was
| liipulated in canaiilliou.
PROVIDENCE, April 18.
' Tuesday last beng the anniversary for the
choice of officers belonging to the Governor's
. Independent ot Volunteers, com
manded by Col. Robert Taylor, jnu. after
the duties of the elision were over, the com
pany dilplayed itfclf through the principal
' (treets ot the town with that military preci
6on fhtfyare so much diftinguilhed.
1 In the afternoon hey repaired to Mr. Rea's
long room, in tlv colfee-houfe, to express
their unqualified tntiments of the firiunefs
, and integrity of pis hational Executive. As
a portion ot that patriotic band, on whom
their country mut place her reliance in the
r hour of exigency, >ut one sentiment was dif
' coVered—that of n ardent and atfectionate
zeal for the diguiy and fuppsrt of our go
; vernment. Evmcve of this, several toalts
were drank, amonj which was the following,
, accompanied by tlree times three cheers.
"John Adams, President of the United
: States ; the # virvous fucceiror of George
" Walhington, and tie second luminary of the
! American world."
Yesterday capt. )onnifon, in a brig, arriv
ed here in 14 daysfrom tl.e Havannah. He
3 failed in company tith about 60 fail of Ame
rican vellels. W hie he'lay there, 15,000,000
" of dollars, arrived fom South America ; and
> a Bntilh fquadronappeared off the harbour
I two days afteF the reafure had got fafe in.
Alexander Hainlton, Esq. is appointed a
f. Senator in tire CoJijrefs of the United Suses,
, vice John S. Holtrt, Esq. of the state of
j New-York, appoirted Diftrift Judge. .
I ~~ FOl SALE.
S' EVERAL very tcgant Sitvations for Sum
mer Retreats, hree and a half miles from
the Court House, aid on the Frankford Road
e the lots will be male tofuit the purchasers.
k These situations are ionlidered in point of health
!- beauty and elegance equal to any near the city,
f. and the road knowl to be fafe and good at all
.. fcafons of the year. The title indilputable —A
plan of the groundjis in the hands of the sub
scriber, ho will mice known the terms ftn ap
n j plication to him atbis office Ko. 1:4 South
ir J fourth Street.
n j ASZiHJ:.' SHOEMAKER,
e mjy i. 3tawtf
• - «. . i * r *-
■ ,hj,L iEL4.m:-
LJr/S of UMTE DS rMM'
&
Fifth Corf rcff the United States :
AT >HE eiICOND SESSION,
Begun and held at. the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, 011 Mon
day, the thirteenth gf November,
one tljoufand seven hundred
and ninety-feren.
AN ACT
To eflallifh an Executive . Department, to be
denominated the Department of tbe Navy.
T) E it enacted by tbe Senate ana
aee. 1. _|J House kf Repi efent alives of the
United States of America, in Congress ajfem
bled. That there (hall be an Executive De
partment under the denomination of the de
partment of the Naty, the chief officer of
which (hall be called the Secretary of the
Navy, whofie duty it fliall be to
such orders as he.lhall receivfi from the Pre
sident of (he' United States, relative to the
procurement of naval stores and materials
and the conftrudtion, armament, equip
ment and employment of vefTels ot war,
as well as all other matters connefted with
the naval eftablifhmtrt of the United
States.
• Sec. 2. And be it further enaded, That
a principal (Jlefk-aad such other clerks-as he
(hall think necefiary« (haU"b; appointed by
the Secretary of the'Na*y,' who (hall be.
employed in such manner as he (hall d«em
u\oft expedient. In cafe qT vacahcy in the
office of the fecretar)', by removal or
wife, -it (hall be tlie duty of the principal
clerk to take the chatge and cuilodyof all
the books, records and documents of the
said osce. "
Sec. -And be it further enacted. That
the- Sectary of the Navy be and he is here
by authorized and empowered . immediately
after he appointed and fha.ll enter
upon the duties of lit* office, to take pos
session of all the records, hooks and
ments and other matDers and things apper
taiaing t« this department, which are now
deposited in tl.e office of the Secretary at
War.
Sec. 4. And be it further enaßed, That
there (hall be allowed to the Secretary of
the Navy an annual salary of three thou
sand dollars, payable quarter yearly at the
Treasury of the United S'ates, and the
refpeftive clerks in the office of the said
department (hall receive the fame compensa
tions and be fubjeft to the fame regulations,
-- -•**' tipple mental to
the aft, eflabli/hjncf the Treafufydepart
ment and for a further compensation to cer
tain officers, in the offices of the other ex
ecutive departments.
Sec. 5. Atul be it further enaßed, That
so much of an aft, entitled " an aft to es
tablish an executive department, - to be de
nominated the departihent" oFwat" as veils
any of the powers contemplated 'by the
provisions of this aft, in the fecirtary for
the dep rtmer.t of war, shall be repealed,
from and after the period when the secreta
ry of the navy (hall eater on the duties of
his office.
JONATHAN DAYTON,*
Speaker of the House of Reprefentativcs.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vite-Prefident of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
United States* 1
Approved, April 30, 1758.3
JOHN ADAMS.
President of the United State 1.
AN ACT
Supplementary to the aB prividing for the fur
t ber defence of the ports and harbours of the
United States.
o 11 E it enaded by the Senate and
eC " 1 ' li Ilbufe of Reprefentatkies of the
United States of Amer'ua, in Congress ajftm
bled. That a- sum not exceeding two hun
dred and fifty thotifand dollars, in addition
to the fumsL^ieretoforcappropriated, remain
ing unexpended, shall be, and is hereby ap
propriated, an-f (hall and may be paid out
of any monies not before appropriated, to
make and compleat at the discretion of.the
President of the United States, the fortifi
cations heretofore direfted for certain ports
and harbours, and to ere ft fortifications in
any other place or places as the public fafe
ty (hall require, in the opihion of the Presi
dent of the United States j and which' other
fortifications be is hereby authorized to
cailfe to be erefted, under-his direftion from
time to time as he (hall judge neccfia'ry.-
Sec. 2. And be it further enaded, That
where any (late, which was found indebted
to the United States, by the report of the
Commissioners for fettling the accounts bet
ween tlir United States and the individual
states, (hall, with the approbation of the
President of the. United States, proceed to
finifh qr compleat any fortification heretofore
commenced by such state, for the defence
of any port or harbo«r within the fame, or
(hall-,under the direftion of the Prefidpnt of
the Utfited States, make and ereft any ad
ditional fortifications pursuant to the aft,
etitituled, " an aft to provide for the further
defence of the ports aud harbours within
the United St.tes," as well the previous
expenditures made since the twelfth day of
March, one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-four, which (hall be approved Sy the
President of the United States, as the ex
penditures which have been, or which (hall
be direfted by him, (hall be allowed arid
credited to fr.ch state, on account of the
1 minute ipuntl «nd reported ♦s-afWefiid i
Provided: That no e*prndittfre exceeding
the balance found due and reported agaiuil
the refpe&ive state, shall be allowed as'afore
fa d And provided, That the fortificati
ons for which the whole, or auy part of the
expenditure, (hall be so allowed'and credit
ed, as afortfaid, with their privileges and.
ftiall be, and shall be declared .
and established as the property of the Uui
ted States, while maintained by them.
Sec, 3. And be it further cnaQed, That
tfiefe words of the said adt, intituled " atx
aft for the further defence of the ports and
harbours of,the United States" that is to fay,
•' Provided,,the said dates fliall, and do cede
to the umted States, the lands or places
on which such fortifications shall be so er
e£4ed; cafes where the lands are the pro
perty of such dates," shall be, and the fame
is hereby repealed.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Reprefntatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States,
and President of the Senate.'
United States, 7
Approved, May 3, 17-98. J
-JOHN ADAMS,
President of the UniLed States.
AN ACT
"}"o authorize certiin officers and ot her persons
t to adminifler oaths.
Q TJ E it euaSed by the Senate and
i ec. 1. JJ gv j e 0 j Representatives of the
l/ni ted States of / merica, in Congress ajfem
bltd, That the President of the .Senate, the
Speaker of the House of Reprefetuatives,
; a Chairman of the Committee of the Whole,
or aCh'airman ef the Select .Committee,of .
either'Houfe, fhall'Be empowered to admi
niftcr oaths or affirmations to witnesses, in
any safe under their elimination.
£iec. 2. And be it further enabled, That If
any person shall willingly, absolutely .
falft'ly fwejtror affirm--touching any matter
'or 'thitag material to the point ii>-que(tio:i,
wherete Jie or flic (hall be thus ejsrrneo,*
»every person, so offending, /and bring wiere
of duly convifted, shall be fubje&ed to the
pains; penalties and ■ disabilities, which by
law are prescribed for the punishment of ,
the crime of wilful and corrupt perjsry.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Rcjirefcutatrvcs.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vict President of We United States,
and Prejidtnt of the Ssnate.
United States, 1
Approved, May 3, 1798- )
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United Stales.
■Deposited among the Rolls in the Office
of the Secretary of State.
Timothy Pickering,
. ' Secretary of State.
ALEXANDRIA, April 28.
The fallowing address wa» drafted by the
committer appointed at the town meeting
On WednfM» j> Ut&fui ihui purpose, and
trantmitfed" to the President of the Uni.
ted States.-. —The sentiments contained in
it perTcflly correfpoßtl with the fpirft by
Which the members of that meeting were
i! filiated—Love of country, Liberty and
'lndependence.
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
Sin,
The citirens of Alexandria,viewing with
the liveliest apprehenlions the alarming jur
ation of our political differences with the
republic'of France, as detailed in the com
munications of our Envoys.at Paris to the
Secret*ry of State, and -defirpus of evincing
their attachment to the government of their
country,"and a virtucujs indignation at any
attempt to infringe its national sovereignty
have commifiioned us to to you the
encloftd refolutioris ex pre dive of their sen
timents upon fubjefts so important and in
terefling to the peace, dignity and prosper
ity of the United States. We have seen
with anxious regret, the giadual dissolution
of those ties of gratitude and afFedtiou,
which have so long attached America to the
interests of France ; but when that
tion is violated by the groffeA injuries ;
when an exprefiion of gratitude becomes
our reproach, and we are smarting under
the lash of unprovoked aggreflioni ; when
every attempt at amicahle negotiation has
been fruftrated, it becomes the indispensa
ble duty of a free people to vindicate the
insulted honor of its national character.
We embrace, Sir, with peculiar fatis
faftion, this favorable opportunity of ex
pressing to you, the warm acknowledgment*
of a grateful people for your truly wife and
patriotic exertions to preserve the tranquiji
ty of your country. The measures adopt
ed and pursued by the executive of (Jie
United States meet our warmest approba
tion ; and though many attempts have been
made to separate us from the government
cf Bur choice, and the- difference of politi
cal fentrment has been the means employed
foi> that purpose, yet be tffured we will ever
repel with unanimity and energy, every effort
ofa foreign power to diminish our rights as
an independent nation. We take a pride in
expr'dfimg to you, Sir, our .entire approba
tion of the re&itude and integrity of your
administration. We are plea fed to fee thoje
virtues and talents so often exercised for the
"benefit 6fyour country in the Jute revolu
tionary conteft,again exert-dinthedifcharge
ot the arduous duties of the firft Mpgiftrate
. of the Union. Accept, Sir, our sincere and
, ardent withes for your public piofperity and
private happiness.—We have the honpr to
1 be,
Your very refpeftful,
Humble Sertrants,
| John Fito.gerr.ld,
Eltfha C. Dick,
Robert T- Hoot,
| ffin-.es Keith, and
| , Will'um Herbert.
: Alexandria, April 27, 179 5 "Xlje (Sas.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, Max 4.
Yesterday, the House of Representatives of
the United States went into a corrimittee of
the whole on the rtate of the Union on the
fubjeft of Aliens. After some few obierva
tions, Mr. Otis withdrew the amendment'
which tie had before proposed, and the three
resolutions reported were then agreed to with
out opposition, unanimously. The committee
lol'e, when Mr. Otis moved to amend the
last resolution by adding after what is said a
bout invasion and predatory incurftons, these
words, or J.tall authorize hostilities againjt the
United States." After this amendment had
undergone considerable debate, Mr. Allen
propoled one which fuperceded it, extending
the provision foas to give power to the Preli
dentto fend out of thecountry a// aliens whom 1
he should think dangerous to the peace of the
country. After considerable debate Mr. A.
withdrew his proportion, when the queltion
on Mr. Otis's amendment returned, and it
was negatived 55 to 27. It having been sug
gested that there was no provision in the reso
lution, in cafe this country should find it ne
cefiary to declare war against France, Mr.
Sew all introduced the following words,
" between tuhorn and the United bates Jbitll
eXi/t zlf ate ofiuar." After some debate, Mr.
Sit greaves moved to amend the mofiop,
by adding, " or /ball authorize bojlility againjl
the United States 5" but Mr. D*v I s doubting
whether this would not infringe upon the pro
vifionsof the conliitution,moved that the far
ther tonfideration of this question might be
portioned till'to-morrow. The motion was
carried.
APPOINTMEKtS.
George Casot, Maffachufetts,
Secretary of the Navy of the United States.
Thomas Baker Wait, Surveyor and
Infpe<£tor for the port of Thomafton, Mafia
chufetis—vice Samuel Window declined.
From the best information we have,
Governor Jav will Be re-elected by a
majority of between Three and Five
Thousand votes.
Married, on Monday evening last, by the
Rev. Mr. Clarkfon, Mr A. W. Ro' infon,
of this city, to Miss Mary Ogle, of Dela
ware.
Married, on Monday evening, the 43d ult.
by the Rev. Mr. Ufti k, Mr. Peter White,
to Miss Eliza Heins, both cf this city.
■ ■ —on the 26th ult. by the Rev
Mr. Uftick, Mr. Jame s Wilson, to Mis*
Margaret Green, both of this city:
Died, on Thursday last, in the
his age, Mr. Henry Seckkl, of this city,
merchant.
Bache denies " original fin"—the world
knows, that the weight of aßtsal crimes
committed by his fadion, is, if unattoned,
fufficient to fink the nation.
MR. FENNO,
At the commencement of tire war for
our independence, among other recjuifites
a particular attention to the breeding of
flieep was ft enuoufly recommended by eve
ry enlightened patriot. England owes its
present ftre gth to their attention to th*fe«
important little animals, as a memento of
which, their judges and ruler* are featcd on
sacks of wool.
Farmers tail Notice !
There were killed during the last year,
near two millions of Ewes, although* five
millions in addition to the present number,
would not form a moderate stock for the
United States. Calcufcte the saving that
the Sparing of the Ewes and Lambs for this
year may produce to yonr country, and
you wiil withhold the bloody knife at least
for one season.
democratic desponbency.
It is delightful to observe that the few
rancorous, inveterate and Frenchified demo
crats who ft ill hang on to their (battered
cause, are compelled to confefs their weak
ness and defeat, and fliapt their sentiments
and toasts accordingly. Defertedb? the -
merican people, broken up in and
staggering to their political graves in scat
tered and contemptible gangs, they will
shortly become objefls of public pity or
disgust. At the Northern Liberty fan
dango, where fenftble 'squire Coates and
cute Billy Robinson (the old one) who re
ceived such a handsome trimming from the
chief juftiee some time since for his impar
tial conduit as a public magistrate, and is
• also famous for his patriotic ccndufl in the
riot at the frigate, pretided at this last ce
lebration of French influence.
I find the seventh toast thus—
« Afbert Gallatin—May his virtues and his
talents meet their'due reward in the appro
bation of his country."—ln this tosft I
heartily unite ; but as his country know*
nothing virtues and talents as yet,
I presume it is intended that he (hall pn(h
off for Geneva in order to receive this re
ward. But if hi is really to have his due
r*ivard, I have no objeftion to his taking
it in this country. The governor could not
interfere as he did in the cafe of the Irilh
cobler a few months since.
Another toast is the The minority m con
gress—Here is the confeftion of defeat—re
. publicans toasting minorities I—this is pret
ty work—and wilhing that this precious
republican minority may not be affected by
the clamors (to wit. he innumerable and
unexampled addreiTes of approbation and
Confidence in the govemroeut and the uni
versal determination to hold to it against
all enemies) excited by the enemies of re
publicanism.
God grant this minority may go 00
dwindling into contempt, until Gallatin,
Liviogfton and Giles (hall ftaad like three
old dead and weather-beat\*ii treej in a fair
field that has been cleared us all rubbish.
Mar 3- •
NEW-JERSEY, MA* »•
Mt. FSttXO, * •-
The Pansy Hill Fi/7j!ng Company,
■ Opened at their Cabin,'Ttt this plaee, on
the firft of May, for the fcafon—Tfcey
were attended by capt. Harrifoii's cQMtrpV
ny of artillery in full uniform, and by fever
' al detachments of infantry and dra
goons—The national banner, waved fine
ly and alone, on an elevated pole—Tfrue
federaltfm, and the genuine amor patrueJ>er
vaded each breast—Among other song«,
j" Firm—united, See." was encored in that
j determined manner which would have made
i fans cuflotifm, if on the gound, tremble to
its center—wThe following toasts were given
uifder the like number., of discharges from
capt. .Harrifon's two pieces.
JERSEY BLUE.
Fancy Hill, May 2, 1798.
r. The Forjltrt * —May they fro n their
■tounciis and their country, the vile brood of Mt-
Ibtr Carey V Chhktnt,\ imported or hatched therein.
а. St. Tamany—-He neverdifgracedhi*country
by loving another, in preference to his own.
J. Our present Grand Sachem, the President
—He marks the paths we are to walk in, with
wisdom and firnmefs, and sur confidence in him re
mains ondiminilhed.
4. Our estimated and never to be forgotten Sa
ehern, Geohqi— He was and is our pride, and our
prop and comfort yet.
5. The Grand Council Fire, th« Seriate —Their
proceeding are evidences of fidelity and Security
to ounnatina.
б. The Great Council Fire, the Houfeof Repre
sentatives—ln this chamber we have warriors and
chiefs who love their country.
7. The three Chiefs sent by the Grand Sachem,
j with a talk to ap rfidious nationi the other fide of
the great water—We want them home again.
8. Our own Nation, New Jerfty— When fbe
speak« to th* enemie* ot our own country, may
(he do it in Ihe voice of tbundik.
9. 1 he Chief of our Nation, Richard Howell— .
We love to have him to lead "tir councils
TO The Hounds belonging to the Ftujlm—They
ought to be on the great waters, to keep our yotmg
men, with the fruits of their lnduftry, from being
robbed by the franh. - ' x
U. We are fond of fmeaking the Calumet of
Peace, «nd are difpofejl to hijry the
we ought to do neither until our rights asa Nation
arc r«ltorcd to us.
23, The You'hful Warriors of the 16 Tribes— .
May the Love of Country and v-neration for thefi-
Cllief Sachems,grow with their ircreafin g years*
13. The Young Women of the Forefl ; 'tis a
pity any one of them thould unite herfelf but to
him, who belongs to one of our tribes.
14. That Old Warrior Timothy—hehas'told the 1
Nation t'other fide of the Water—forcible truths.
15: The Chief and Sachems, at the Schuylkill
Wigwam—They love the American Wails—we
are Brethren.
16. The Day and thofa who honour it— May
each retiming one find us more and more the Ame
rican. p- .
* Alluding to u an American Tale" tailed
« The Ptrrjert."
f Jacobins.
Anftuer of the President of the United States
to the address of the citizens of Baltimore,
and Baltimore county—as publ'tjhed in this
Gazette, April 11.
To tht citizens of Baltijnore and Baltimore
County in theflatc of Maryland.
I thank you, for communicating to me
this refpe&ful address.
The fciifc yon entertain of >b<» conduft
of a foreign nation, in threatening with de-
It vuthon, the treeacni. ana t.,arp,...
of the United State*, and representing the
citizens of America aa a divided people, is
such as patriotism, naturally nd necessari
ly inspires—The of every' republic in
Europe however, from Poland, to Geneva,
has given too much cause far such thoughts
and proje&s in out enemies and such appre
hensions in our frieads and ourselves.
Republics are alfafa divided in opinions
concerning forms of governments, and plans
>nd details of administration—-these divi
fionsare generally harmless, often salutary
and feldem very hurtful, except when fo
reign nation* interfere and by their arts,
and agents excite, and ferment them into
parties and fadions : such interference ana
influence mufl be refilled and exterminated
or it will end in America, as it did ancient
ly in Greece, and in our own time in Eu
rope, in our total dcftru&ion, as a epubli
ean goverimeut, and independent power.
The liberal applause you bestow *n the
measures pursued by the government, for
the adjustment of differences, and restora
tion of harmony, your fefolutions of resist
ance in preference to fubmifiion to any fo
reign pow»r ; your confidence in the gov
ernment, your recommendation of measures
of defence of the country, and prote&ion
of its commerce, and your generous reso
lution to submit to the expences and tem
porary inconveniencies which may be neces
sary to preierve the sovereignty and free
dom of the United States, are received with
much refpeft.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphin, May id, 1798.
To the Youth of Philadelphia ahd the
Liberties.
The address to the Prsjwient of the United
States, agreed upon on .Monday last at the meet
ing at Camaron's, is now in circulation for sig
natures ; and copies have »Ko been deposited at
the Library and'Coffee-Houft for the fame pur
poSe. At the prefeht moment, when it'is much
to be feared that the storm of war which hasfo
long ravaged Europe, will pass the Atlantic and
bui ft with fury on our (hores ; when the breast
of every young man must glow with indigna
tion for the injuries and inSults that have beeH
heaped upon his cquntry ; every, one mutt ap
prove the measure and embrace with ardor the
opportunity that is offered to him to o»inc« bis
confidence in the government and his resolution
to exert his utmost powur in preventing the fur
ther progress of an insolent, ambitious nation.
That monster, the French republic, rifing'froni
the blood of murdered millions; fuppoited by
injustice «jrid cruelty, and by every art that is
base and perfidious is Spreading terror and de
ftruftion through Europe ; intioducing anarchy
and confufion :n:oe»ery country that is concern
ed with it ; and now turns its attention to Ame
rica and prepares her lor her deflruiTUon in 01-
to compieat itj.fcheme of universal defolalion.
to the voice of jufticeby the long pratfice
of dilhonefty, and Kiade'callous to'dilates of
conscience by 1 leng continued courfeof inqui
ry ; it lui's you to security by difiimulstion ;
then plunders you of vour property and sf(er
wards demand* a bribe before it will think ps
granting you redress for your ivjuries. To im
pede the j rogrefs of villaipjr is the dutj of eve
ry one who *i/hes for the reijjn of morality i
it is at thi».time doubly so when our rights are
to be Hivi'Jed by its remerfclefs (way While
lo king round the different ftatioiu of life none
can be found so proper a* the youth. Ardent in
their tempers and to the wiles of
tile world which decrease the difgufl natu ally
fell for v llainv, thrir indignation Is roused at
the pra&ice of it, and >vherv it afie.ts the rights
of theircountry, their patri.cifm rises to enthu-
I liafm and induces thi-ih willingly to hazard their
fives in hej- ferviee Keafons ;drawn from the
cruelty, I may I'ny, of calling out the old- and
middle aged f-om thejr homes point ont the
youth as the most desirable e!afi(."'Tlie old have
already toiled through one war t» eftab'iift our
independence ; fend ;hem not forth to proteifl
it, when we their sons are fufficient; force them
not forth to scenes of trouble, but rather lej, ,
the in ijmain at home whde we their lons prc
(ervefor thew the <qui"t enjpymcut of that liber
■#y m theu" old age, which m their youth.they
Ifongh\ to obtain. The middle aged havefami
lies, who probably look up to them for fuppflrt.
To tear the father from the child ind expoie him
to the hazard of a battle would be cruel in the
extreme when others can be found who have
not this tender tie upon them. These conside
rations point you out as [he most proper perlons
on whom to place the glwry Oti defending your
country ; the interest you hive in her honor and
prosperity render it your duty. How happy is
your situation in being born in a land governed
by a free and equal constitution and mild and
equitable laws. For the attainment of these
blefiings and prefervjtion of theii), the sword
has often bean drawn, and evpry misery been
tndured. Some of you have not yet enjoyed the
valuable privilege ot an American and those
wh«> do-enjoy it have experienced its blessings
but for a (hort tiitie ; you therefore Anticipate a
long Coiirfe of happiness under ,the p rot tiff ion of
our present Free Government, and have far
more cause than the aged to dread the arrival of
the fata! day which may destroy or injure it. —
The aged by the aoutfe of nature wiil soon pafi
off the scene and the reswimbraDCC of their de
gradation be loft in eternal lleep; while the
youthful will live to feel the miftries of slavery
heightened by the loss of the liberty they before
had in view. Your happiaeli will then be de
flroyed in its bud by the bluffing fpirst of flivery,
, ; the days «f profpenty which you fondly an
ticipated will be changed into ho«rs of sorrow.
, ; Thui ought yoa to oiffer 'your fcryices. t? your
country f;o« a view to public R©»d, jSwv ta
- yourftlves and grtttltbde and afrerflions-u»:yow
Sires who fought far Independence-' tAn op,
portunity is at Band : an address to that efteil (S
now circulating for signatures and.if yon fe.ef
any indignation for thfc injuries and i-nfults th»f
have been cast upon ynti} ifyou valaethat libec-.
ty-nrhich your fathers obtained atthe expense of
so much toil andblooil; and wish to transmit it
as '-pifre and unfulli'ed to the (ucceeditig genera
tion as you received it from your progenitors, I
conjure you to sign it, and if through neglesfl or
overiight you (hould uot be called upon, repair
to the places wh#re it l fs left for fignalttres asd
thereby evince yourfelf a true American y»uth,
who fcorris every conftdcration of• ease or private
interest when the rights of his country are iavad*
ed. ' JSICMMR.
. '
Stanislaus, the late kilig of Poland, di
ed at Peterfburgh on the 12th February.
Report by the ship America, from Ham
burgh fays, that our envoys at Paris bad
been refufed pafiports.
Yesterday an-ived here the America, Captain
Hardy, from Hamburgh, after a passage
of 41 days. By this arrival we are favor-
HamKnrarh oapers up tathejjth
March, from which the louowu.g articles
are translated :
* -
SWITZERLAND, March j r . '
The war betwixt France and a part of this
country has begtm., The French have alrea
dy got poffeflion of the towns of Solothurn,
Friburg, and Berne. From the manner fcl
which the contest has begun many bloody
battles may be ex petted.
BASLE, March 5.
The following i 3 an official account of. the
taking of the tows of Solothurn by the
French. _
From the General in Chief of the French
Army to Citizen Mengaud, the Minitler
of the French Republic to the Helvetic
Cantons at Basle.
" Solothurn, nth Ventofe, (Metrrh i.J
I haflen to g ve you information, Citizen
Minister, that I thir. morning took poffeflion
of the village of Langrau., where are lodged
all the arms of the country. Eight cannon,
with the ammunition waggons and 200 pri
soners fell into the hands. Aihong the pri
soners are several field officers. I fuminoned
the town of-Solothura about ten o'clock and
about eleven the doors was opened. I have
the honour to fend you a copy of the sum
mons. 1 have demanded of the Senate to
difarrn the inhabitants, and that the impri
soned patriots be set at liberty. I have ta
ken every neeeffary meafore for the preferva.
tion of order, and our b'ave brethren in
arms triumph through the whole Canton,
so that the reign of liberty and the happinefe
of the people, will be fteured. I fliall give
yau an account of what shall hereafter hap
pen, which you will forward to the Execu
tive Dire6lory.
Health and Fraternit).
SCIi YUENBURG"
Cds" The arsenal aad cannon of the place
are in our power.
Copy of the Summons sent to the Comman
der of Solethurn.
Citizen GJneral,
The Directory have commanded me to take
poffeflion of the town of Solothurn, and if I
experience-the least resistance, and one drop
of French blood is spilled, the heads of the
members of the government of Solothurifwill
have to answer for it. If you mean to comply
"with the will of the Dlrettory, you will open
your gates to the Republican troops. I give
you half an hour to consider of the step you
will take. After that time I shall set fire t«
the town, and take pofftfliort by'foree.
"SCHANENBURG."
Copy of a letter from General Seltauenberg,
commander of the French troops.
Berne, March 5.
"We yesterday entered this city. An en
gagement took place, which continued for
three hours, and was on both fides obstinately
contested. The Switzerf have loft many
men. We have {aken 20 cannon and 9 co
lours. The capitulation of Berne is the fame
with that of Solothurn."
PARIS, March 9.
General Malfena and the commifiioners of
the Directory, Monge and Panau, set out for
Rome on the >oth ult, '
General Angereati arrived ar on
th; 27th ult. where he whs received u, ith great
iov and feflivity.
In the upper department ®f the RHins, tins CK ilc~
paty Vtonnier and (ome other perftins hive been
arretted, and will he brought here,
A vesT 1 from Cayenne, brings information th it
the deputy Muriniis is dead and thit Barthclemy b
fltk in the hifpital there.
The Council of Five Hundred have concluded a
treaty oflfciifive and defenftve with the Ciffjlpine
Republic. ' /
BRUSSELS, March ir.
The Vies Admir;*!, with a number of mar
rine officers, have been examining the coast,
from the mouth of the Scheldt. It it laid the
armamentis to fail from Dunkirk. The right
wing of the expedition aga3nft England is to
be encreafed with 3.5,000 men. The embar
go is general oil our coast.
COPENHAGEN, March IJ.
We learn from Rotterdam, that on the ,rth inft.
fifty vcffcls were laid under requisition there; a
mongst these were a Danish and a Prufian ship.
Our miniiler on application, got the (hip belonging
to us released.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Schr. Little Fanny, Fofdick, from hence
has arrived at St. Thomas's.—Capt. Ruf
fel on his passage to Gonaives was plundered
by a Brigand boat, of 140 dollars in ca(h
and a variety of other, articles.
Abont ten faii of British (hips of war lay
io Hampton Roads on Wednesday last.
Brig Mol y, Higby, from hence ha* ar
rived at St. Thomas's in 15 days, after be
ing plundeied by a French privateer.
Schooner Swift, Pile, from hence has
arrived at St. Thomas's, via Tortola. The 1
Swift was taken in fight of the former by
a British privateer and feet into Tortola for
examination, where fhc was instantly lib
erated, and the privateer , vyas ordered to
convoy him to St. Thomas's, as the chan
nels swarm with privateers and Spanish pi
caroon boats. United State*' brig Sophia,
G«ddc3 from hence to France was spoke*
1 (sth ult. out 6 days. Thfc Sophia had been
flruck by lightening, but received fto con
siderable damage.
Arrived, the ship America, Capt. Hardy,
from Hamburgh ; left there the 20th March,
the.sol lowing vessels, viz.
Ship .Voltaire, Bowe.n, of Philad. for Ruflia
Enterprise, Norris, do. to fail soon
Pennsylvania, Williamfon, do. repairing
Union, Baltimore, to fail in a few days
Hitjdah, Warner, Philad. from N.York
Brig Lavinia, CafTin, do. firft fair wind
Holbrook, M'Call, do. do.
Nancy, Brown, N.York, for India
Ship Roebuck, Shewell, of this port, had
failed far Bristol.
On the 19 utf. Captain Hardy spoke the
brig Betsey, ®f Botion, B. Jones master, who
informed that he was then 2 a days out from
St. Vincents, and failed in company with an
armed.Araerican brig, of 6 guns, bound to
Boflon, who had saved him from capture-
He also informed that he spoke a few days
since a (loop, which informed him that there
Was 19 privateers fitting cut at Gaudaloupe to
cruize on (he American coast ; in consequence
he determined to make for Boston, although
originally bound to Charlefion.
Arrived at the Fort, the brig Sea Nymph,
X*lT i«* •'•vs from St. Thomas, afid
sloop New-York and Philaaeipw Packet,
Ruuel, from Gonaives.
Schooner Amy, Culhing, from hence to
St. Thpmas, was taken by two French priva
teers) and sent into St. Martins, and was di
rectly after cut out by a British privateer, t*
ken into Tortola, and then fold to pay fal
v%e' ,
By Captain Hardy lue are informed, thai a
French army 'was within a feiv leagues of Bre
men, end another body of troops moving louuards
Ciuxhavcn, tvhicb occasionedf',me alarm alHam
burg. IFe hear nothing certain of the American
envoys, except that they remained at Paris at the
date of the iaft accounts from thence.
In the America came passenger Mr. Mont
mollin, merchant, of thls'city.
Sofion, April 28
This day, arrived ship John and Eliza
beth, Galloway, from Isle of France, 82
days. Left there ships America, Newall.
and Sultan, Clement, both of Boltun,
bound to Europe. The Ketch Brothers,
Felt, of Salem, failed day before, (arrived)
aad ship Henry, Bullock, of do. failed in
co. The Gov. Bawdoin, Oliver, was con
demned, ship and cargo, a few days before
capt. G. failed.
Ml. FENNQ,
The following extrafl of a letter from a gentle
man Jn M;,fTachufett«, dated the li'tt of April,
does honor to his difcernmcnt, moderation and
■ Piety—Through the medium of your paper, 1
beg leave to communicate it to the public. With
my warmed withes for the ufeful cffeA it i«
justly calculated to produce. D. M.
" I have been reading the difpatchee from our en •
voyt extra, to the republic of France, Tbife com
munications afford me the btightefl omen for our country,
that I hate beheld these many days. ItbinL that now, cv~
mufl be flopped, and tie whole American world
be convinced hat u>e lave no choice left, but to put ourfelvei
as fxfl at pojjible, into the Ctji slate of prepaiatioa for the
worji that the French directory can inflifi. Afy grealrj
concern bat for a long time ctrifen from the alarms net divi
Jiom among ovrfelvei —It it evident the French govtrammt
have drawn tbeir greatefl encouragement from, and built
tbeirfirongtjl confidence on, a full convifl'on of thit fait
They have, by their explicit avowal of their difi'fit.on
and viewe, done more to demolifb thit ground of their a*
fidence, than all Europe befidet, and America too, could
have done ■without them. For nothing-Jbort of the fede
ration from their oivnlipt, ifeuld have induced tbeir for
mer adherent! to cotfeft (if tbey believedit J that univerfat
dominion wot tbeir objefl. '
" Wf are told that the ejfefl in congrcft bat been fuel
at tvat tobe mofi deft ed;—that union and batttcny bat
«tr?v taken place of discord anddivifion. ' If tbit be a f.ili,
the bighti praift and tbarikfgiving is duetto that infinite
Being, -who bat all heart! di bit command, and oftentimes
" taketh the -wife in bis ciln crajlinefs."
■ " The severe fuff'erinrs we have endured, from the
alarming divisions which have exijicd among us, will eon-
Jirain ve to use allpcjiblrprudence to prevent tie revival
of firmer animojiti. s, and to prefcrve and firengtben evl
ry appearance of union that can be difccvsr,i. It ie bard
to convince an opponent ; harder Jlill to produce.an cc
inorvledgment of that convidion, and correspondent cbamge
of condufl i and when fucb ath r :nge once laic! plan much
1 delicacy and t'e, derneft it neccffary to prevent a r.voit.
" We trufi tbofe '• diflin?uijbed citixentjf tbefi.Qstee"
who lave so fully jufiifiedt'>at" efprcialcotefdcn e"plac
id in them !y our iUuJtt tout Pi cfident, will rfcape the re
veige of tb. t power wbofedart designs tley b ivelledeLiped
to the world; and doubt not, that every poJpM. mean bote
been tiled to b jlen their return.
' "It cannot lea rof f ffHne tb*t tie ragtof the
Frf.tcb Dfr-ftcry h fir. ' c TT, n-»£ 5- / W {
/?«* tbey Icvc ftt vru u,Z f # h >■ t' '>•'/ •
Stoic.* Our exj*r ' tit pjj. t vagii t>i +K-*--- ±S*+ F '
fhgiUiu* "x future.
*' 'TUt PryiJi»?j jbrvtLm,?ii*m t aty ifi'if* +n< if
and grayer, g/svi iV» fal'ttfr.&iwt (o T
Utve htkird /peal *f it. Tie rrtifure *"ts jtjfatn! ty
the btgbefl irifdom, and it ivoufi be (Ttfitfvft to rt ijk
<7/: f«r the purpt/ft 9* irtdityf.
" o;tr j'tur.t <? ' is truly fiifficisutly /crvJt- to hfiri
tv&s tr.s/rtmr ef tl? union, ty.!><r ir'Jhii the Ja!i'uthr. of
tfir c ow.trf/it Inrts. in fupj'licatitn to the fr.;%
fain tf xv/Jcii'iK fir lis dircSiM and bet edition "
—■ ——— —"■- -f*-.- 1 — =r
•■{s* A fljted mectine of the American Phi
lofopkical Society 'Wiff-pe held it (heir hall thi«
ev ning at seven c'dock.
mayjjj "" '
NEW-THEATRE.
Mr. Mi/bourne, Scene Painter, - &
Mi/bourne's Nigh/.
THIS EVENING, May 4..
Win be fyefentfcd a favorite TR.iGEJtT, (ncrt
a<9ed,lhis feafmi) raited
THE GRECIAN DAUGHTER:
In tbe coutfeof the evening's entertainment,
Miss Milboiirne will dance a Hornpipe, adapted
by Mr. Francis, to the popular air of STONY'
POINT. i,
End of the Tragedy, a grand fcrious
PaMomimr, (performed hut once)-
told in a<stio», in otic a<st, called >
The Death of General- Woif*.
To » r h'th wilfcbe added a Pantomime, part new
and part compiled, from the most' favorite
tricks and machinery —iny nted anc> painted .
by Mr. Milbcu ne, railed
HARLEQUIN JUNIOR.;
Or, %'HE MAGIC CESTUS■
The following Certificates of'
FUNDED &EBT CP THE UNITi DSTA TES
STANDING on tfcr Books of thetrcafuiy. » ( re
forwarded tor London by the fbip William
Penn, Captain Jofiah. which hath been c.Yjjtiircct,
and the Certificates fuppjCed >0 bclbiU-viz :
3164. Ba. Deferred i!ebt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, tn. Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June t, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,072.
Soil. if. Si* per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Horne, of Bevismount, Hants, Great
Britain, d?red May 30, 1797. No. 1.5 >96
3610. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name oi Will
iam Manning, of Oru.fby, in tlSe county of Nor
• folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797. N>.
10199.
>OIB3. 71. Three per Cert. Stock, in the name
of Jaaset Mathew, of Up l er Seymour ftrect,
London, Widow, dated Odohcr 31, 1797. No.
11810.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication it intended to be made at the f *id office of
the Treasury of the United Stat-s, —and all per
rons concerned afedefired to tak- notice.
*LtO —IN THK tfAMC Tl.SJtl,
Fifteen (hares Stockof the Bankof UnitedStatea.in
the name of William Manning,of Ornifby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz, l'hree Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January i, 1797.
No. 13981, 15983, 23984.
For the renewal of which,application is meant to
he made to th« said Bank of the United States, —,
and all perfoos concerned therein arc Uefircd to
tako notice.
JN. VAUGHAN.
Philadelphia, may 4. s6w
" OX BEEF. ~ '
100 Barrels )- of Beef of best quality, put
jo half Barrels 5 up with cafe for long voyag*».
»oo Barrels of Conncdlicut Pork.
S<l Barrel! of Connecticut Tongues.
WINE S.
35 Pipnwf M r jd<ira Wine.
' JO Pipes of Port.
30 lialf Cafcs of Sherry,
30 'Ca&s of Lifbdn.
300 Cases of French Clirrt, of excellent
quality.
too Bar.e s of Scraped FLOUR,
ioc BarrHs of Co«deithic), and
ao Bbxes of bell t'urhjin Mullard.
FOR. sale: ev
John Skyrin
Lundcnberger's IVbarf.
"»y 4 rodtf
I A Country Seat to Let.
NEAR the FranV.for.rf real, about four and a
half milts from Philadelphia—the fitua ion
ren arkably pleasant and heafhj-. Immediate
pofTcffion may be-Had Apply st No. +
South Second. Street.
mi y *• V 3awtf
HoiTes on vSale.
Several valuable Horses to be Soldj
Which are perfcfliv well broke ft-r either La
dies or Gentlemen i trills of thefn are allowed.
' A PH ! yfo T. SH'AX-X
it his Hiding School Market-flreet, which it
open ever? day For the purpofeof teat hli-g the
irt . ot Horfemanthip, and the breaking and train
ing of Horfet.
">»r 4- . » -t
i'orty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of Ajtrif, a ijt&fo
Man, named Gl jgtte, perhaps he may nafs
hy the name of Gt*/fn» /.«, or may change ].j«
nartve ; he is a out thirty one yews of age, nearly
!ix feet high, has afcar in the upper part of his un-
Jerlip, a fmallpart fceii f liiiten nut between the
midd.e and the cornet of his mouth (1 beHeve on
the right fide), his left hand ha, be n rcry fore
and was so at the time he ran away, fcy being burnt
iomc time pall : he is a gout, strong lellovv, and
has been employed at a favy mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro worn t . o-"
Mr. Joihua Lingoe, of this county, "it is lupiiofed
they are gone into Delaware State. r- : rlo'R
that secures said Negro Man in a:ry gaol, that the
lubfci rber fhaJl get hinj again £ha!l reepWe the
above reward. * AS ME EAYLT.
State of Maryland, ") ,
Somerset County, april it». f 4 _ 4W
Grass to let.
THSEE contiguous Lots of GroucH, contain,
ing fomethingmore than an acre, fita-tc, in
Carp nter street, between Third ar.d Fi.ur.lt drect
Southwark ; to rent or together for
the year or longer. Ihty are in jjood order'and
jfCi.erally produced hay for fifteen years rait J-
Upon one lot is a frame dwelling hi vf : , a wj' „
well of water, and hay ftahlr, Tor furthS
formation, enquire at No. 12, North J hir,i flr et
*■ ril eodwr .
TO RENT,
A good three story House,
[ TWO rooms on each floor, with a co„v, !: > n r
Kitchen—in Front, nearSouth-f.rwt F.i.at.i"r
of the Primer.annl 10—'
" imported in the lbip Phoenix
Richard Grice*, matter, fr
A qnantity of Lin.feed *
Two cases low priced i.iartr Chechs
Eon sale Br
. ****>« ecu' 'Treasury Department,
Manh 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
THATpropoiilt will be received at the Office of
the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the t;th day of July next ensuing, for
the fuyiply of all rations which may be requited
for theufe of the United State*, from the firft day of
O&ober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
'799 i both days inclusive, at the placet an 1 within
the di(lri& hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwcgo ;
at Niagara 5 at Prefque Isle ; at Micbilimackiiiac ;
at Fort Franklin ; at Pittsburgh ;at Le Beuf; at ,
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
Lcramie's Store ;at Fort Wayne; at Fort Dcfi- '
ance ;at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi- 1
ami River to Lake Erie ; >t For* Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabaffi; at MaiTac; at any
place or places on theeaft Tide of the River Missis
sippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illii.ois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Mississippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of jthe J
Btate of Kentucky, and within the said State ; at
Knoxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other 1
Pods in State of Teuneflee; at anyjilaee or
places on the east fide of the River Miflifnppi, be-
low the foutheru boundary of the State of Tennef- ,
feo, to the foutheru boundary of the United States.
If fupplie* shall be required for any pods or
places r.ot mentioned in this fuehfupplies
ffiall he formfeed at price»prop:rtioned to those to
the pods before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and th« contraiftor. ,
Th« rationa to be supplied to consist of th" fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounce® of pork *
or bacon 4
Hal? a }ill of rum, brandy or whif-"^
ky, or.e quart of Salt, two quarts ( hnndr4(j
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, f rat : ons
one poijnd of candles ) J
The rationsare to be furnifhed in fuchquantities,
at that there (ball at all timet during the said term,
be fufficient for the confiimptioii of the troops at .
Miehilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, ami Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other ports, for the term of at least three
fionths is advance, in good and who'.efomc provi
fiont, if the fame (hall be required, ft is te be un
der flood, that the eontrafior is to be at the ex
pence and rifle of iffaing the fupphesto the troops
at each post, and that all lolTcs sustained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, (hall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or dcllroyed, oft
the depositions of two or tr.ore persons of credita
ble characters, and the certificate of a commiftian
«d officer, ascertaining the circurciftanccs of the
loft and the amount of the articles for whiah Com
pensation (hall be claimed. • 1
The privilodge is refcrved to the United State*
«f requiring that none of the fupplles which may
be furnilhed under thepropefed contraS, si.all be
issued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the contrail now in force have
been contained.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
march 17. aawtufy
Alex. J. Miller 'is? James Davis,
Hiving entered into partuer(i>fp under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friends ill town and country, that A
they have opened a WhoUfale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Fraat Sheet, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
fojtmer.t of Taiia, Gemot, Irifa, French and Bri- /
tijb Mannfa£lures for sale, 011 advantageous term«- I
for ca(h or a (hort credit.
February ley . stf
Interpreter ofForeign Languages, f
JOSEPH EG. M. DE"I A GRANGE,
%Valnut-ftreet, No. 110, j
BEING duly commissioned and sworn in the «-
bove capacity, offers to translate the French,
English, Spanish, Portugucfe and Italian Langua
ges : he flattershimfclf that his former prolellion,'
as advocate, both in France aud St. Domingo, has
well qualified him to translate any Court proceed
ings or other Jud ciary inflruments.
N. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI- 0
BRARY continues open at th.e above place. Ma- 1
ry valuable additions having been made to this
collection, it confilh now of about 1500 volume*,
t h* bell adapted to answer the purpose of those
who wifli both to improve in the Language, and r
obtain ufeful inftrudtion and plcafnrc.
march 30. aawTm
Pcnnfylvania Holpital, c
4th mo. 7th, 1798.
Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hofpi-
L tal, are te meet on the seventh day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
eleft twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for (he
ensuing year.
By order of a haaid of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Sec'ry.
a £ rilj7 dtE
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
ths estate of Wiulam Fleetwood, ef
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested i and those who are indebted
to the fame, are defircd to make immediate
payment, to
Tanmry 4-
To the Affli&ed with
NERVOUS Disorders, lofsof appetite, female
complaints, debilitated eenftitutions, inward
weaknesses, lownefs of fpiritt, Lminal weakneffcf,
iudigellion, decayed, weak or relased conHitutionr,
pairs id the limbs, poverty of blood, finking anx
ietict, and tremors, which so dreadfully affeft the
weak, the sedentary and the delicate, every fyrnp
torn of extrem* debility, attendant on the induc
tions of youth, the consequences of a diflipatcd
life ; exceft of pleasure or grief, change of climate,
the immoderate use of tea, fpirituom liquors, or
any intemperance ; difordert incident to young
girls and women at a certain period of life—
THE CELEBRATED
Cordial Restorative Balsam,
Is a medicine of abfolutsly fpecific and unparal
leled virtuct, in the speedy and effeaual cure of the
above uiforders, having Hood a trial of many fue
(tfsful ycart, during which period rea*y have been
refteicd from the brink sf the grave.
Youth and age of either sex, are equally the ob
jeSs of thi« Rcllerative, and they will uniformly
participate in its falnbrions qualities and efTeih ;
for whether the fyllem has received a (hock, and is
debilitated, from imprudcncies or inattention ill
the earlier part of life, or is finking under the ad
vance of years, a small quantity of this medicine
will give prefect relief to, and afford a pleasing
profpea of returning health and llrength, by giv
ing tone to the mufcuiar [yftem and organ* of di
gellion, and in a great meal'urc renoVating ihecon-
Uitution.
Wonun at any period of life, m?y by this medi
cine lie freed from-the most affli3i„- difordert in
cident to the fcx, aud at a scrtain pei tod it is moll
highly ufeful.
'fbe Cordial Reflorativc Balsam i* fold genuine
(only) by the prcpiirt#r, Br. JAJ.IES CHURCH,
at i.i» medicine florc, No 'i South Third lirett,
next Martet-.-reet, pbi'a'eiphia ; where may be
hat an account of the virtuca of this ReA-ra ive
aai a liil of ciirije. aprilaaw jw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, ,
MARCH i,.1^8.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the A(2 of Cengrefs passed on the sixth day of July one thouf j'dj tl
niretv-feven entitled " An Aa laying duties on Stamped Vallum, Parchment and 1 apei , -not
Aa pafi'.d on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and nti .
«An Aa to postpone for a limited time the commcucement of the duties .n poied by he
tl'd "An aIl Uvinrr Duti V on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , that from ..nd after the
firft day of J«ly the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, w.ll be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
For every flcin or piece of Vellutn or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, «pon wbich fliall be
written or printed any or either of the instruments er wrttingstollowing to «it _ j
Any Certi6cateof Naturaliration, ~ n c S
Any Licence to praftice.or Certificate of the admission, enrolment or regiltryot
any Councilor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Pro«or, in any Court of the
United States, - - - ' ' . , _ 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts ot the United states
for one of the said Offices, (hall so far is relate* to the payment of the
duty aforefaid, be a fufficient admiflion in all the Court* of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices- .'
Asy Grant or Lettert Patent, under the seal or authority of the United Mates
• (except for landi granted for military fcrvices) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent; (ex
cept for lands granted for military services ) 2
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or RefpondentU Bond", - - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on account of anvLegacy left by any Will or o
ther testamentary inftrtiment,or for any (hare or part of a perfor.al ettate di
vided by force of any statute at diftrrbutUns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Child Ten of the person deceased, the amount whereof fhalt be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and ftitfll not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - / ' , . ,
Wheh the amount thereof fliall ekceed the value of One Hundred Dollar* and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - S°
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional fuin <~>f j
Any Policy of Insurance or inflmment in nature thereof, on any (hip, vefTel or
good* infurcd from one diftria to another in the United States, . • ,
From the United States to any foreign post or place, when the sum for which
Infnrance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - • »5
When the sum insured (hallexceed five hundred dollars, • " I
Any Exemplification, of what nature fcever, that (hall pas* the ,seal of any
Court, other than fucli as h may be the duty of the Clerk of filch Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or Tome particular state, - so
Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exrhange, promifliry
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contraa, made to or with tht'Unitcd States or any state, or for their
uferefpeaively, - - - '
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - io
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 45
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoufaod dollars, 50
And if above ot>e thousand dollars, ... - - 75
PrrviJedy that if any bonds or notes shall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall bt fubjea to only two fifth part* of the duty
aforefaid —viz. - - ■ 1* 1
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - j 4
Jf above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, | to
It' above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one tjioufand dollars, • 10
If above one thousand dollars, - - * * (.3°
Any Notes i[Tiicd bv the banks now eflablilhed, or that may hereafter be edkb
lifhed within the' United States,-ether than the nott* of luch of the (aid Bank*
as (hall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpedlively, according to \
the following fca'le. - ' - * "
On all notw not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - e
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceedin S one handred dollar., 50
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - " *
On all notes above five hundred dollars, ■ • 1
Any Protcft or othir Notarial afl, - * " " 4 5
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfios, or to obtain orfell War.
rants for Land granted by the United States a* bounty for military service*
performed in the late war, - " * _ " " *5
Apy Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cuttom* or duties, for lef* than
five hundred dollars, - - • *
For five hundred dollar* and not exceeding two thousand dollars, *
For more than two thousand dollars, • • 3
Any note of bill of lading for goods or merchandizt to be exported,
K from one diftriSt to another diftria of the United States, not bring m the
j fame State, - " " IO
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - »5
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or tffe£ls, made ip-any
cafe required by law, (e«cept in Ctfes of goods and chattel* diftriined for
r«nt or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any' officer ,V 58
Any Cn&rtificMe of a'ohare in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Dank of
thr Urnfd Sf»lr«, nr of any Stateor ~ 1* -
If above t
irißdve one hundred dollars, - r 5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11. *
The duties will l>e colleSed and received by the Supervifcrs, lnfpeflors aud other Officers
of Infpeaion, i* the several Di.lriai, Sarveyo and Divisions of the United State. aRd by fueh other
jverfons a, shall from t» time be specially appointed and empieyed by the Sapervifors of Diftnfls for
that purpose. «
The Sapervifors of the several will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and aa soon as
mar be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcelsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper with any of the rates er duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
flamped vellum, parchment and paper may at the option sTthe Citizens of the United States, he ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Superviior, li.fp.aor, Officer of InfpeClion,
or otiter-perfoil appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Superiors of DistriCt,
r GIVEN undtr my tiaud, at Philadelphia
the day and year akwcmcntiotifd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Martli 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lithing of a Price Current in thi, city, and they
having; engaged to give him every alfiftance in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
paoposts to print by subscription,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To be published every Wednesday and Saturday
morning, on the following conditions.
It will be printed on four pages quarto. It will
coßtain the Prices Current (wholelale) at Phila
delphia, wttr the duties on each artidp—Tim Pri
ces Current at Boston, New York, Charleston,
and other part, of the United States, with thePri- '
ces Current at Louden, the Weft Indie* and else
where at often as they, can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The rati9 of infuranee—the price
of (locks—courfeof exchange, &c. &c. Likewifu
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as (hall
be thought ufeful and important—and the remain
der of the paper will be appropriated to advertise
ments.
The price to fubfcrifiers within the city an<f li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
ses, will be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from it* publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub-
Icribers at a greater ditjance will have it sent them
agreeable to their direaions —to pay two dollartat
the time of lubferibing, and the remainder at the
end of the year.
The publication (hall commence as soon at a fuf
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of condu&ing it.
0- It is from the advice and to gratify the wish
ef a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
printif proposes publifliing tbis Price Current in a
quarto fizc in preference to any other. And i( is
proposed to embrace the Pricet Current with such
other matter as may be most material to fend abroad
io the firft two pages—appropriating the other two
to such matters at ryay be mere immediately do
meflic, and to adveitifements.
Sabfcriptions are received by fSid Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-street,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at his office in Chcfuut
ftreet, and at the Pliiladelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Wsggpn, hung on Jacks with glaff.s and
blinds in the doors, with or without harneft—
' inquire, of Peer Umerickhoufe, Arch, below
Sixth iirect, er th 4 fubkriher in Cermantown.
CjlSf.iß fV. HAINES.
apiil 2 *iawjTT
Fresh Teas.
Jujl Imported 3 in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
An J For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked biHet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALIO,
China Ware, asserted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Caflia, large garden
and common Fans, fatlin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whilc-bonc Clicks.
'Tbty have also for Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxes,
march 8. §
Now Opening,
At Wi 1 l 1 a m M'L a w s Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general afiortment of Horieman's
Piflols, dircA from the Manufacturers in Loudon.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harncfs, &c.
April 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January lith, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THI CITIZENS.
THE following arrangement is made by the
said commtflioners, for cleaniing the
ftrects, &c.
DiflriA No. r.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the foulh fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuptrintsndance of Nicholas Hicks.
%■ From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Cfcefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide ef Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be URder the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
£3" When pumps are out of order south of
High-ftrect, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-flrcers, or Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ; and north of
High street, to Dixey and Dehaven, in Saffr.fras
ftrcet, between Sixth and Seventh-ftretts.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, C
March sCth. IW 8 -
.Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an aft of Congrcfs pailcd on the
t.;thd»yof March, 1798, the , following
iterations and amendments have been made to
the art pafled ou the 6th day of July 1797, en- FOl
titled "Ana<£l laying <lutir» on flamptd vet
" lum» parchment and paper.
Th« Ilamp duties on debenture* or certifi
cate# for the drawback of CuftotH* or dutiei on
Imports arc repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors jg
or Infpeftors refpe£lively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Kevenue, who may pwf- t
cb?fe at one time or procure to Ik stamped, tnv ■-
q rtntities of Vellum, pjrehment or Paper, upon fj
which the duties Dull amount to Ten Dol- J\
Urn or upwards. £
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided and fold H
the rates prefcrihedby law, without any addi
tional charge or expenfc on account of the
price of Paper ; but for ilamped Paichment or 1
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded Pic:
at the rat: of Fifty Cents for each /kin of Parch of 4
mcnt, or Two Hundred Cents for neh skin of ll
Vellum of medium fi/.e, which may be furniflt- lar :
ed at the expense of the United States and pro- ly I
portionally for any lefler quantity- half
Given unicr my band) at Pbilcidelphia t ,the v]
dot and yeir nhovexicntiwtd. be h
OLIVER WOLCOTT, . t
Secretary of thcTrcafury. ' l " ;
Cedar Polls, Rails and Shingles p"a!
FOR SALE. it h
'"PHEY will be delivered to anyplace in Mary- ly c
I land, PennfylvanU, New-Jersey, or New- moI
York, where boats driwiinr si* iect water can go tion
lrom this place. It will often suit the feller to 1
receive in return corn, provisions, wot or dry ~s 1
goods. Letters directed to the fubferifcer at this rtat
place, and put into an y post office in the United £ ur
States, wiU.be regularly received and caref»:l!y at- 3
tended to; Those who wifli to centra# in Phila-
delphia, will please to app.y to Gidion Hill I
Witts, No. I|J, Market-ilreet. The fubferiber
is deCrous of contracting with fonu refponlible \
perfen in Philadelphia, to receive and dil'pofe of for
him, 011 commifiion, 11 quantity of two feet Shin- of j
gle«, for home ofe, and of two feet and tightecn wl ,
inches, ior exportation. Fur
William Hill Wells, thir
Dagfborough, l!at« of Delaware. twe
april 18. taw4\v on 1
Cannl Lottery —No. 11. w
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 10th P afi
inft. Tickets fur Sale in this Lottery, at tlir <
Sntn Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery rets
Snd Brokers Office, No. 64. South Second-flreet— a
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten ibo
Dollar,, where check books are kept lor rsgiltep- tea
ing and examining in these, the City of W afhiag- c a'<
ton, No. tl.and Paturfon Lotteries, and inforraa- A t
tion where tickets may be had in mod of the Lotte- m '
rie6 authorised by law in any of the States gf the '
Union. an ?
N.B. The bsCnefsof a BaeKti, inbuyingand an «
felling -all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, Wl [
discos Kting 'Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of .
Lands, Houses, Sic. itc. will be duly attended to, lel
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 1.5. §
Valuable Stands for Bufinels. J
FDR SALE—by the Sub/criber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
twttn StcomL iiid Third {Vre.fs • cm tuiit.<uuing
eighteen feet, and the other feventcen feet, more or
H rrearitr, , f one f shored aritf forty-eight, mora l *>e
or less, to Carter's alley. eel
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-flory 1
BRICK HOUSES jf«'
I (Numbers & and 8i) 1 4;'
Which may readily be made into one ; sad, ob 1
Carter's alley, thtre is a convenient, well built _I
three-story
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor p,
and a front of eighteen feet on said alley. \
This property is clear of ground- runt, and an | .
indisputable title will be given to the purchaser. j
The three Houses will be fold separately or toge- , he
ther. lar.
Further particulars may bis known ob applica- at i (
tion to 'wh
ZACHARIAH POULSON, jvs: ■ th
No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, or at the Library. 1 u >
march as- Jefißw
JUST RECEIVED.
And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet. M. Carey ni High-ftreCt
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-llreet and the
Booksellers generally, J
(Price 5-Stlis of a Dollar.) Ge
BEACON HILL, ™
A Local Poem, historic aad deforiptive » «f
By a Lady of 80/ ton. eel
ANALYSIS OF BOOKI. ' w
Allusion to the surrounding Profpefl—lnvocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic ? r '
Muic—FiStort discarded—Dedication to Wafb
ington—The Aikion opens at the Retreat of the '
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe *?°
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfenification of Fcrrtine and Fame— an
Walhington at Mount Vernon—called to the
1 chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tkalHiftory of the several States—Their com- ''
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer-! j 7?'
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the '
Britiih Army—lts Departure—Appointment of .
Congrcfs—Declaration of Independence—Cha- .
raAer of the Columbian Sollies —The Poet's ' ei
prophetic Apofirophe to the Progrefj of Free- ' '
dom throueb#ut the World. 1
. ® c Pa
march 30. 5 r
For Sale, 1
ThcsargoofthebrigAtncricanfromLaguira,
CONSISTING OF
Caraccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips, j
No. 11 j, South Fourth Street. I
april 13 _ § Et
: \To be Let, in
5 (And possession given on the Ift of May) &
A genteel
f »» feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
i and ftables,at prefeat in the tenu-re of Major J/.CK>
• sox. Enquire at 187 South Third ftrect.
3 april a. § ec
e JUST PUBLISHED, tr
AND TOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE, v:
e (Price 25 Ccnti)
Refledions on MonrocV View F
e OF THE CONDUCT OF THE EXECUtIf E, el
As publillicd in the f'
f GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES, f |
Under the signature of •
SCIPIO, i,
if In %üb;ch ths Commercial Warfare of France it traced
I- ! to ibe French Faftion in this Country, mt itc Snne,
J fnJ tht Moti-.cs oj Offujllion, UCc.
f/* the preft andfooti will be pdb!tjk:i,\
WILBERFORCE ON RELIGION.
PROPOSALS
By J. O R M R o D,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, Philadelphia,
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Practical View
OF THE
Prevailing Religious System
PROFESSED CHRISTIANS,
CONTRASTED WITH
REAL CHRISTIANITY.
Br WItLIAM WILBERFORCE,
Member of the Britifli Parliament.
Search Vhi Scriptures.—John y. 39.
• Hovs charming is Divine Phtlofophj.
Not harsh and crabbed as dull foolsfuppofrt
But mujical as is Ap olio's lute,
And a perpetual feajt of neSaredfaucets t
Where tie crude furfcit reigns.
MiltOW.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed with a handfomc
Pica type, on fine paper, and will form a volume'
of 400 pages, large oflavo.
It will be delivered to fuoferibers foe one dol
lar and twenty-five cents m blue boards, or neat
ly bound and lertered, for one dollar and s
half.
The London copy fold (when it was to'
be had) for two dollars and a half.
s£s*Th* Britiffc Reviewers announce this pub
lication to be one of the molt ufef\rf, elegant and
energetic, on the fubje<Jl of religion, that has ap
peared within their memory. The reception
it has already met with from the public, strong
ly corroborate their opinion, for it has, in a tew
months, run rapidly through four large edi
tions in London.
The publilher flattersliimfelf, that as soon as
its merits heroine generally known, it will b«
read with as much avidity in America as it is is
Lurope.
April 26. 3t
A House an<T Lot in Dover.
FOR SALT't,
\ LOT OF GROtJNI>, situate oil ths e»ft fid«
f\ of the main ftrect, running through the tow®
of Dover, in Kent couiity, in the State of Dela
ware, about thirty or ior'y yards below Captain
Furbct's Tavern, containing in froi t 011 fiid street
thirty four feet, and (xtendiog in depth laftward
twelve perches, together with the building-6 there
on ere&ed, which cjnfift of a good brick house,
two stories high, w«H finilhed, rooms a
bout seventeen or eighteen f«et square each, and a
passage eight or ten feet wide on the firft flopr ;
three rooms with a paflage above, and good gar
rets, the cellars are excellent, one ol which is used
as a kitchez; a ba:k brick building with two rooms
above and below about taa or twelve feet by four
teen ; the upper rooms of this building conimuni
cate above llairs with the pafiage of the house ••
A brickfnaoks house, and a goo<J pump of water
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
The House is in every refpeft as comfortable as
any in Dover, is in a good situation,
and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with tke Cgn of the Eagle. •
The terms will be r.eafonahle. Apply to Dan
iel Mifttin, at Camden, near Dover, or to thefub
fcriber, No 60, North Eighth-street, Philadelphia.
CADWALADER EVANS.
march ty. tus4w
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York ro,i.in itgnt of (!er
—js— fTvff miles friom the city;
the whole being under good feqce, and iu ex
cellent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply t»
Jonn Elliott Ckkssqn, at his Office for the
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &C. No. 54,
High-street.
4th mo. 3d. tii&fiit
For Sale,
A Farm and Covntst Seat,
SITUATED on the well Tide of the Schuylkill op
pofiie to Norris-town, seventeen miles f/om Phi
ladelßhia—the farm contains 195 eces of land, 50
of which are woodland, about 40 of miadow, and
the rett arable land. The house and garden which it
large and well paled* ffcnd in the moli ple.faoi situ
ation, commanding a view of 'bo river, an island
which isoppofne. and the village ol Norris-town—
There is a (had ftftiery belonging to the place En*
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
or on the premises.
April < 6 iawtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALB,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Cadwalader, situate on Saffafras Rf
ver, in Kent ceunty, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a fpaeiouS treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overfecr's houses, two ran
gm of two story buildings for Negroes (One of
them new and o'f brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Efbite beinj:
surrounded by water.it requires tut little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring Bfhety. It is
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi.
gable river but a short fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the premises; also, a variety of cxcclknt fruits of
different kinds. The foil is moflly a rich loom
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
fmailer farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purcbafcr. The
Stock on said Farm, confifling of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also bedifpofsdof. For further
particulars apply to Gicroe Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubfcribcr. in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24. * »av&»
Bafeenridge—for falc
IT cor.Gfls of oioacres, .Imoft all of which if
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the lata
Esrl of Stsrling). It may be conveniently drvideij
into five, farms, four of which are bounded 011 th«
Eafthy the river Pafaick.
Th«r« are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three aeres—The dwelling
' -is a v<iry convenient «ne,and[a fmallexpense Would
' put it i[»'complete repair.
The orchard conGfts of I joo fin»bearing etjraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirtsol f»i<C
tra d near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and mod delicious kintSs.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
r Forest Tre&s, that add to th« beauty and «©nveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abrut 18 miles
from the towns of Newaxk and Elizabeth : 10 do.
frem Merrii-Town, and 1A from Springfield It
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acr®
incafli, on delivery of the decd.. Pleafc to cn«
quire nf T• McEUf.N Sc r Co.
e, ' No. 78, Chufuut trecv
February 1. codtf