v yy&/
™Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John WaMd Fenno, N°- i i 9 Cbefnut Street.
hvMBEk i 93 8 -] PHILADELPHIA; MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 3, €798. - VOLUME XIV.
ay The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers refuting in tht city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditionalfor encloftng and directing;
andunlefs some person in this city will
become anjwerable for the fubfcrip
lion, it mufl be paid Six *Months in
For Sale, J
AERIAL, ;
.. AND i
Pennsylvania, \
about three hundred \
tons ea-h, Suilt of the belt material! and well found
>—r,.ay be icot to f<a at a (mall expence. The
rharasc. <>T thefc {hip» are f» well known, that a
particular dtferip'ton of them is deemed unne
xeflary. For t rm« *pp'v to
CURNEY !sf SMITH.
not.it §
For Sale,
2~V THI SHIP
BOSTON PACKET,
VHulinci CowptnTiiwait. Matter, j
1 • K I HF.N fcb«ut »,joo barrels. a go«d strong
Ship—hat exc9llentae»>ninmodation«for palVngers,
•may be sent to fra with small expence. She is lay
ing «t Mifflin's wharf. For further-particular en
quire of
Ifnpr Harvey, jun, or
Smith 8c Ridgway.
rovernhcr 16 51 11
ItTT Saul (hip, if not fold on, or before the sth
of Dfc.mher.iuft. will on that day, in the evening,
be offered for file by public audion, jt the mer- I
ehants's coft'ec h«ufe.
Smith & Ridgway, '
, Isaac Harvey, jun. .
dec. 3.
FOR SALE,
jp - *- THS SHIP
s|||& PERSEVERANCE,
J amet Wi!liamfon, mafler. t
Just arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi- '
ladelphia, • f live Oak and Cedar, copper sheath
ed in London, burthen 320 tons mounting 16
guns and may be prepared for sea in a few days, "
With her Cargo,
Now on Board,
reKti sti nc or
if I Hog/head;, and 50 barrels Sugar
*60,000 Weight of prime Coffee in hhds. bbls
and baps &
31 Pvnchjons of Jamaica Rum.
Williamson, Majter.
fROM bt. Domingo, with her cargo, confiding of
4,3 hoglheads of Sugar, 1
A/id 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
LIKEWISE,
jjjjWL AMIABLE MATILDA,
MOUNTING Ix Gun*, burthen
iwi ™two rhoufand two hundred barrels of
Elour, ahd m aompleat order —Apply to
Tbornas &* John Ketland.
November ij <j
For Sale. T
THE Subscft rtbr, intending 'o decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments,
The fbop is elegant, commodious, and {effici
ently known for the extensive business . one in the
whclefale and retail line ; the situation equal to
any in the city, being atthecuiner of Walnut and-
Itrcers. rhc whola, or arty part of the _
Stock, will be fold, as will heft suit the purchaser.
Th« terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
Who has For Sale,
Well calculated for the rive.- trade— jjj
Ihe Peggy, about 30 tons burthen; el
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably 1
Jood'order? d " Ught " f ri W»g - fj,'
Ihe Sally, about 30 tons, fails 1 C
well, and in complete order forthelumberbufiHefs ,
r uL~-. L" f r indebt "l to the late firm <« 1
<7BalJwh, IV. B. GUMvn*, Gala-
fubfrrih ". "eearneftly
requeued t© make speedy payment to
august 3 JAMES MOORE . J»».
boston beef
ioo B3rrel» in Shipping Order.
fOR sale by Wi
JOHN SKTRIN,
"• 96, A orth From-Jlreet. *
Who wants to Charter, 1
A GOOD stout vessel, f
' s^o 3 00 Tons burthen. '
HAS ALSO FOR SALE, A
40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
n ° Y ' t ' m 4 t
Old Madeira Wine.
- , pipes of old London particular
MADEIRA WINE, 9
I' flrong iron bound Hambr»>' callcs, for c
aleby ROBERT ANDREWS.
W 30. wdtf I
is
•j, Ship Broker's Office,
And Commi/Jion Store,
P~ Ho. 1:9, South front Strftt,
n Next doar to she Culiom Houfs.
THE Snbfcrtber, encouraged Oy the advice of
_ hn friends, offers his service to the public
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. He propos
es to buy and fell veflels and every thing relat
ing thereto—aflift maflers of vessels and others
in entering and clearing at the Custom-House,
procuring and {hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance ar.d all other mercantile accounts, and
have oti hand the oeceffary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign lmguages iranflated, and in
formation given in general mercantile matters.
—From a knowledge pained by long experience
, of every branch of business he hopes to be ufe
e, ful to those who please to favor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERY.
t a november 19 J
FOR WILMINGTON,
No * T H-C A*OL I N A, >
the shtp
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
'fyj' LL take ill freight on very mo
derate terms, and fail about the
i;thinftant. Apply to the Captain on board at
er ' Latimer's wharf, or
Willings Ss 9 Francis,
y. Penn Street.
:n- November 16 5
For SALE or CHARTER,
.-spi, THE SHIP
th MOLLY,
'g< 4 10 ® batreis of Fk>ur,
; r- Philadelphia built, well found
Vsv*i«£s39s£S ar) j fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in a few daye—(he is pierced
18 gtino, and mounts la new fix pounders, with
small arms in proportion.
j—® THE SHIP
vfcphT DIANA,
Burthen 2,100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built of live oak
') iSr ' and c«dar, is pierced for four
teen guns, tnd mounts ten new four pounders,
. with small arms in proportion.
THE BRIG
s, AMAZON,
Burthen 1,300 birrels of Flour,
~ New-England built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
in a few days,
k -For terms apply to
NICKLIA fe' GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
on hoardfundry nejfels at Marcvs-Hook,
X --- A 1 I'T'*' | if M f,t t
j,IOO bushels of coals
186 crates of queens wate affortetl
7 tierces of bottled poster
■. To barrels of coleothard paint
>f 4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of yellow ocre in casks I
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 birrels mineral black do.
15 barrels Spanish brown do.
35 boxes of pipes
11 b r } HAVANA SUGARS
n 3,joolbs. prime cochineal
»f 3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
40 bales of fail »anvafs
379 Iheets of copper, affiirted from 48 by 34 p
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tubs railed still bottoms afiorted l r
36 fix pound gußs 4 .J feet, B'rwt each L
e 14 do. 4 feet, jewt and 4lb« each
( 50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchefler cotton chevks S,
3 trunks muffins a »l (bawls q
14 cases mii{linet3, dimities and ghighanjs
[ »8 cherts coloured nankeens, muflinets, &c.
( U trunks printed calicoes _
1. 6 bales of whin and coloured cafllnreres
1 bale of course woollens
English nails assarted.
Oflober ij. fri.&Jat. tf. g
For Sale,
THB SHIP
ALEXANDER,
%&±-~ - Gideon Hall, majler,
iJUMMJiN about 1000 barrels; an excellcn;
live oak and cadar built vessel; fuur years old '
fails remarkably fad, and is now ready to receive,
a Cargo. Apply to
John Whitesides & Co.
Market ftrect, uov. »8 d6t ~
HUDSON ess YORKE, F '
NO. J4, NORTH FRONT STKEKT,
HAVE JU>T RECEIVED, , *3
Per the lalt arrivals from Europe, 18
A VERY COMPLETE ASSORTMENT OF 1
DRY GOODS, J
mid they ■will dispose of on reasonable terms, 1
AMONQUT WIfICH ARE
Superfine and coarse cloths, coatings, [ n
Elastic and fancy do.
Caffimeres, plains, duffils
Rose and strips blankets well assorted in small 1
bales _
Furniture chintzes, cotton, and dimeties
Callimancoes, camblets, durants, moreens, and
joans
Mucins of all kinds i
Velvets, velverets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegant assortment of ribbons
Red, white and yellow flannels _
Red and green bocklng and wslft, baizes Fr
An invoice cutlery and hardware
Cottonades. shawl?, printed handkerchiefs
7*" 4 4 1 '-8 checks
9-8 & 5.4 cottom ltrip*. 31
Cotton, worfled and filkhofiery
do do Gloves
Threads, bindings, tapes, Ac. Ac
nov -?- dlSt ,
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AND IS RIMOVIKG r*OM NO, 8, CHtSNUT,
To the Five Story Building, in Dock
near Third-ftrtet.
1 5 Where he has for Sile '
25 o Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSUTIKC or
C'.»n"ae«
ot Baftaa
|j c Mamoodies
} f. Humhums
lt . Caliroei
, rs Handkerchiefs, &r. &c.
re, The remains of a Stock of
; r d DRY GOODS,
)s> Con ft/ling of IVoolexs only,
A>«SCST THEM *R*,
" Cloths
... Coatings
e Blankets
,• Keßdal Cottons
Hats, Sec.
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fine flavor, 3d £s" 4th proof,
nov 10 • J
REMOVAL. '
*
0. Geokge Dobson,
he TNFORMS his friends and the Public in general I
at 1 that he has removed from No. 35, South Third
Street, t» No 9»,South fide of Markct-ftreet, near
the corner of Third Street, rnd is now opening
a very extensive assortment <-f
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE PRESENT SEASON,
WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEIVED,
Per the Ihips WilJiam Penn, Amiable, and Jane,
from London, end per Chefapeak and Thomas
from Liverpool, and will be fold low for cafli,
or approved notes at a fliort date, viz,
'■j London 7-4 Superfine Clotbs and
Caffimcres, fafhionable colours
Yorkftiire 7 4 do. and do.
"5" Mhted and plain coatings
Welch flannels
Kerfcy beaver, for Spencers
Jeannets and Tabby cords
Velvets a?d velvetteens
Velverets and thickfetts
r 7, 8, 4 4 and n-8 cotton and linsn checks ~
y 7 8 and 4 4 bed tics j
r 6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
London chintz and chiutz furnitures A
' Furniture cottons
Do. dimities
Purple andchiptz (hawlt
Silk do. g
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worftcd hose
* India and British muslins of every description
Black and white arape R
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats assorted in'fmall cases >
Umbrellas j.
Peelings and fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribbands
'** Silk Modes
Stipe dine Fpench-camtfick -
Cambrick muslins
Do. threads
Pulicat and Madras Handkerchiefs, Ii
And an elegant ajfortment of
BrufTels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 17 «
_j J
Imported, 0
AND FOR SALE BY
Isaac Harvey, Jun. e
No. 9, South Watfr Street, J
A ANT ITT OF b Q
Surinam Cotton and Coffee, j,
Irish I'.neus, in whple and half boxes A
* Checks
Drogheda linen
Irish hackled Flax
Liverpool Salt and Coal.
1 ALSO A TARCEL OF
Men's and Women's Combs assorted.
Scot's Thread—and
One hundred hogsheads of prime Aux-Cayes
MOLA.SSES.
II mo. 12th d BW __
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS, h
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes [ n
Velvetts of
Velveretti. p,
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities ca
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk g t
Brussels and Persia caipctts ' mi
Buttons
For sale, for cajh or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. 143 Arch flrcet. /~
*6 stjanl
LANDING, \
From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda, ( 7 a
Richard Stites, Master, from Cape a „,
Nicltula Mole. 1
»3 Bales Socks and Flannel Drawers "1 W CO
li Do Gaiters j
* Do. Rugs 0° r
I Do. Havre Sack. f™=' S T
1 })o. Flannel Trowfers j 3 Er "
1 Do. Tents, J4 " g f f
Also just Imported, ' aD .'
In the Ship Chesapeake, Captain Webb, f-«m l °
Liverpool, bo ,
147 of Queen s Ware, ion
Aflbrted particularly to suit th? Weft-India u
Market —For Sale by Un
Thomas & Jolin Ketland. *0
november 7
Now Landing,
From on board the /hip Johr, Bulielev, and a
for sale at thr stores of JefTe & Robert /!
Wain, fire
350,0 c o weight of Java Coffee, £
of the firfi quality in bags. „ (f ,
I 5 0 :000 weight of Java Sugar, '
in I JOl
nov. a . f (
Bond & Brooks,
Corker of Market a*d Sixth stuiits,
HAVE RECEIVED,
by the late arrivah from London, Liver
pool and Hull,
A LARGE AND CENERAL ASSORMENT 01
DRY GOODS,
Which they are now oprmrg for sale, at the moll
reduced price*, for caflt or the usual credit.
A capital Stand for Business
TO LET,
That large and commodious HOUSE y no. 39,,
south Front (Ireet, diredlyoppofite the Poll-Office,
toother with the (lore and cellar, on the Watcr
ftreet fide. Enquire as above.
Nov. 17 .5
FOR SALE,
A UANTITT OF
ROCOA.
ALSO—A few bales 0/ excellent Cayenne Cotton,
fubjett to drawback—enquire of
JEHU HOLLINGS WORTH Es" Co.
No. 47, Ptr.n Street
nov. 24 dtf
JAMAICA RUM, "I
A Cargo now landing at South J)re:l wharf, ,
FOR S&LE BY
PET EH SLIGHT,
Apply at Stores en the Wharf,
who also orrißS rax sai.«,
at BRANDY, id and 4th prool
•d Madeira and Port WINES, Sec. kc.
it Nov. 1. <* t f
g
For fait by the fubferibers,
A Pew «al»s ot
WOOLENS,
Containing Cloths & Blankets,
Ijo bale* Bengal muflms
! » 40 do. Madras handkerchiefs, elegant pat
terns
i 202 pieces Ru'flia (heeting
10 boxes mnhrellas
a quantity of enflia
30 tens Peterfbuag clean hemp
2S pipes, 3 years old, fined particular Ma
deira wine
a quantity of Iheathin? copper
Mordecai Lewis.
Nov. »6 d 2 w
S '
Jitfl imported in fiips William Penn, A
miable and Jean,from London,
A quantity of Cannon, sizes 4,6 & 9 lb.") with balls
Carronades, 12 lbs. j suitable.
Mufquets, MufqUet o«ns, Cutlafles and! ts
Piltols, for Ihips life, |
Rifled barreled Gnas, Fowling Fiecei, ! •»
and Horfeman'sPiftols, f •^"'2
40c ,000 Flints, chiefly for muflcets, in ! 8*
" kegs. j to
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron°Sc«b
bards, in cases of 50 each.
Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres, Swords and Cutlalfrs, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in callcs, a general as
sortment—For Sale by
Thomas isf Jno. Ketland,
—-
Just Arrived,
In th« Brig F.liza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimftnne.
An aflbrtment of valuable DRUGS, <
CONSISTING OF
Opium, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna,
Oremor T?rtar, kc. &c.
ElTences of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and fiafks
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian luteflrings
Satius » j
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Han j,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wine of the firfi qntlity. ,
JAMES YARD. f
November 3 S r
ISRAEL PLLAbAiN l a Co. {
No 74, South Second street,
Have returned from the country ; and havefor '
SAi.E, as usual, a large assortment of
DRY GOODS, [
Imported in the last veiTels from Europe, confiding g
of articles principally fuitcd to the prefsnt and ap
proaching season _
They are determined to fell off very low for
cash or Ihort credit.
Note. All perrons indebted to the late firm of
Samuel Plea/anil \sf Sunt, art dt fired to make im -»
mediate payment to ths fubferibers.
Israel Plea/ants bf Co. b
Nov - 1 d 4 w p
Genteel Boarding & Lodging,
IN A HEALTHY SITUATION. V
MRS. M'GREA informs her friends and the 01
Public, that she is prepared to accosnmo h
date several Gcn'lemrn, with genteel Boarding
and Lodging, at No. 1 7, Filbert street. te
nov. a 8 jif
DESERTED,
FROM the Ikip of war Dcla-uarc, under tile com
mand of the fubferiber, two feamcn. viz. '
Francis Cazenave, a Portugue'e, aged 18, about _
f feet 6 inchei high, dark complexion. black eyes ,
and hair, speaks French and Spanish fluently, and .
tolerable good Englift. ,Also, in
Ticnas an Englilhman, aged 16, a- . w
bout j feet 7 inches high, light hair, frelh complex
ion and blue eyes. I"
Whoever apprehends said deserters, and delivers
them or board any fliip of war belonging to the
United States, or lodges them in goal (hall receive
40 deliars reward, or ro dollars for either ofthem. , ,
STEPHEN DECATUR.
Nov. i A dlct
NOTICE. "
ALL persons indebted to the estate of Jap? 3 /
1 uoupson, of the Indian Queen, Fourth £
flreet daceafed. are dtfired to payment t'> rc<
the fubferibers—and those who have any demand* w (
against thefaidefiate,are requested to lend in their fir
ntcounts duly atuOed for settlement, to .y,
MARGARET THOMPSON,"> Adminillratrix
JOHN THOMPSON, | /.d.nini'irator
aeT, 3 dlm
NOTICE.
'< A LL Persons indebted to th» Eflate of doc
,or Mugh Hodge, decealed, are requcfted
•r- to make immediate payment —and those having
demands against the Estate are deltred to authen
ticate and prcfent them r<>.
MARIA HODGE, admnijlratrix.
oft SAMUEL HODGDEN, adminijlrator,
nov in £
NOTICE.
ALL Persons indebted to the Eflate of Doaor
Francis Bowes Satri, deceased, are re
«' 3 ue f l,d to "»l" immediate payment—and those
«. having<lcirandsagainft the fcid .-(late, are desired
to ptoduce the fame, duly authenticated, to
Ann Sayre, Administratrix.
Robert Hevfham, Administrator.
November 15 rtjw
I o be Sold at Auction,
TO THE HIOHEIT BIDDER,
>n. On THURSDAY", the lstb December next,
At the Bunch of Grape* Tavern, iri BOSTON,
preciftly at I o'clock, P. M.
Two Notes of Hand,
__ Signed by Kelly and Clark, and indorsed by
! Martin Kirflcy, Thomas Barber and James Green
rf' ><"*f. dated December lg, 1795, and payable tho
ift day of January, ! 799, viz.
One Note for three thousand fix hundred dollars,
and one Note for four thoufini tight hundred
dollars.
D«fton, novemher 14 (**)
For Sale,
100 Tons of Pio- Iron.
O
apply TO
s. c. co x,
No. 5, South Fourth Street.
17 Q
The Subscribers
lt . HAVE JUS'I REC r IV Dt INVOICR OF
Choice Cheshire y Double Gloucester
Cheese.
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.]
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
a Of various sizes, per the Jane, from London.
They have also for Sale,
200 Calks of Refined Salt-Petre,
AND A QUANTITY OF
Fine Castor Oil.
James C. isf Samuel tV. F'tjhcr.
~ November I . dtf
Us _
.. FOR SALE,
By Fishbourn Wharton,
at No- t»8 South Fourtb-Jireet.
China Ware,
Nankeens
b _ Teas
Boglipore3
Lutestrings, £s*
i£ Silk Shawls.
""V- >3 • odtf
Notice is hereby Given,
' I 'Hat application will b.- made aj the Trea.
X fury ©f the United States, for the renewal of
1(J the following certificates of Funded Debt, {lard
ing in the name of Robert Whitwortb, of CheHea,
London, thefaid Certificates having been forward
ed by the thip Ellice, Hatvey, from London f„r
, New-York, captured by the French, and fu.mofed
to be loft. r
, N °'„7 43 V 6 Per CeDt Stock, dated N*ew
xoik, 18th April, 1*96, for Dollars 1481,47.
No. 8171, % Per Cent, dated New-York,
loth April 1796.
SAMUEL MILBANK.
novemher t8 d 6w
James William Miller,
Sit North rhird Street,
Near Arch street, have the following articles for
sale upon moderate terms for caflj, or the
usual credit.
Scarlet Cloths,
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, Red, and Yellow Irilh Flannels
Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
licoes, Gurrahs, Mamoodies, Gu2zines, an <l other
_ muslins, fancy and plain cotton hose, vel*tts, thick
fetts and fancy cor Is, sewing silk and twill of all
colours, ferreting, hair ribbon, coloured threads
India fligbandanoej, and other black, and colour
'r ed silk li.mdkerchiefs, a variety of other cot'on
do. Soute romals, red Gilla handkerchiefs, mo
reens, foan fpianing, fuftians,
tin?us and royal ribbs, also muflinets and dimities
? ginghams, ladies' kid and cjloured gluves- &c. ' '
" nov - 21 ' d lot
John Dobbin,
d BOOT SHOEMAKER.
X> ESPECTFULLY informs hi. Fr Ml ds a.d
IV the Public in general that he carr.'esonhis
business at No 99 South Second-Jlreet, nearly
pofite the Merchants Coffee house whsre gen-1
tlemen maybe ftjpplied in the neateO and best
, manner—h? afiii.-es those who may please tc fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
e or exertion on his fide shall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
; N. B. , Orders received will be pundluallv at
tended to. 7
november 5 j
Notice is hereby Given,
That application will be made at the
. Bank of the United States for the renewal Qt
| the following certificates of Dank flock, flanr'ii e
in the name of Hodgfon Atkinlon of London
which were loft from on board the Swallow l' dC '
ket, capt. Kidd, raptured l.y the Frmch, an.l all
persons concerned arc desired to take i.otice
No. 2424, iflued in lieu of No. 1891,
1892, 5662 and 16640, for 4 (hares.
No. 3020. iflued in lieu ot 11055, and
11057, for 3 fiiares.— 7 (hares.
THOMAS M EUEN & Co.
Nov. j3 d3m
NOTICE.
ALL persons indebted to the e/l»te of JOHN
SPURRIER i late of this ci'y are
requested to m»ke immediate payment, and those
who have aiy demands againfl said eflate ar< <ie
fired to render their accounts propcrfy attelied to
the fubferiber fi>r (. -'ienent
ELEANOR SPURRIER,
Aduiniilratrix.
nov St «, tjtaafc— "i '■ i
£s* The ship Carolinus, Capt. Alex
ander Mellcy's Letter Bag for Cork
~ and Liverpool to be taken from the i
Post-Office the \th Inst,
titb mo x, 1798.
+HI PARTNERSHIP OF
. Hallowell & Rhoads
BEING thisday dissolved by mutual confent,all
peifons having demands against said Firm, are <!e
iired to bring in their accounts for settlement, and
these who arc indebted are requested to make im
mediate payment to Samuel Rhoads, who is au
thorized to receive the fame.
HALLOWELL
SAMUEL RHOADS.
•dec. t $ ,
FOUND,
ON the eveningof the 29thultimo, fu»dry BANK
NOTES. The owner, by proving his right,
xnav receive them on paying the cjtpenfe of this ed
vertifemer.u
December 1.
TO LET,
A THREE STORT HOUSE,
IN UNION-STREET,
Enquire of Mart Green in Laurel-street
running from Spruce, between Second and
Third-flreet«.
dec 1 c^jt
NO n CE.
ALL Perform Indebted to the EAate of -
Benjamin Harper, late of the Northern
Liberties, deceased, are requested sb make im- '
mediate payment and those having any demands '
againtt faidettate to forward their accounts pro
perly attefteu for fettlement-to
(KACHEL HARPER, exettUrix.
THOS. SHOEMAKER , executor. |
t2th mo. ift
All persons j
Indebted to thit Eftart of Ms. John' FzNNo,late
of Philadelphia, deceafed,are difired to make pay
ment, and those ha.ving any demands, to nrtfent
them for fcttleaent, to
Samuel elodget, Adm'r.
or
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent J
to the adminirtrjti>.»,
- roy - 3n f,m.
Boarding and Lodging.
GENTF.FL t oarding and lodging, with fuita
li.d accommodation for fervams, to be had "
*t no. 53, north Fourth street. The house has been tf
free from fickiiefs and shut up during the late fever f c
December 1
Lancaster Connty Butter, si
IN KEGS,—FOR S//LE,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street.
JZLi. 1_ S
A SINGING SCHOOL, b A
Jir At\DHLW LAW. ™
\V ILL be °*" !Ded 0,1 M °ndiv evening, in a
\ T r , '°T. baek of Arch ftre « <-hurch, corner of "
/rch ana Third flreets.
Havingr.» le the business of teacbjng Psalmody
a primary employment for many years, and hav
ing minuted in moll bf the principa 1 tawns in the
nired Mates, and having formerly- taught with Of
fwccefs in t.. 1 - place ; also, having met with en
couragement from a large riumbi-r of refpeaable -
gentle:! en »n this eity, Mr. Law is induced to so
licit the general patronage of the citizens of Fhila
-delj r ia.
He wiil teach» an easy and expedit?2u. a ,a„> 1
tier, th«*. practical rules e»f mufifc, together with a -*
variety ef tunes, airs and anthems ; also, the e!e- nit
ments of thorough-oafs and the principles cf com- tit
position. He will riad tenures on the fobje& of n»e
p.iullc as occasion may require, and opportunity del
prefect.
Ihe school will be attended at the room above
c-ei.tioned, Monday, Tuesday and Thurfdav, in
the evening, irom 6 to 9 o'clscft, and on other
evenings in the south part of the city, provided _
that a room can be procured fer that purpose.
If any iadits pr fer King taught in their own
I.ouk?, and will form into societies for ehat pur-
po)e, !.e will wat on them at such hours in the day A
Jafcallbe 110 a agreeable, provided they do not V.
mteriere \vi:h the stated hours of the general Ai.
lcftool. 6 • ,
ihe tirms maj be known by applying to Mr. hai
J.™' Wr - Robert Wallace's, no. 77, north firt
IsirH (trert, . r at the room. the
Philadelphia, dceember 1, 1798
Ihe SubfVribers
f.'jve received by the late European arrivals, the
• Following Merchandize,
Shippfdl them principally on consignment, which 1
they offer by package to Wholesale Store Keepers, que
or others, on very advantageous terms, for calh, lire
approved notes, or bills of exchange on London. P.)
Medford & Willis', *
*0- 78, North Front Street. ' at(
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calitc-es, furnitures, purple and colored
(hawls „
Mu3ins, plan, striped, checked and fancy 1
Hjljlore, jaconet and book handkerchiefs ed
Pins ar.d lundry baberdalhery
Scotch,and < olared threads pro
Strict cloth cardinals gov
Durar.ts and c»lam4niotj v law
Woffled, cotton and fancy hosiery east
Tilt, i j'.lor and beaver hats tier
Yorkft lre plains and broadcloths Am
Pfiin fnd twilled coatings audd»ffills the
CafTi .ftercs and fwaofdowns
Sttijie, point and role blankets
White colored and Welfli flinueJs
Knapt Kendall cottons n
VVorfted and mohair plulhes
Pewter, airorted in small -
Spades, fliovels, frying pan# & ironmongfry
An invoice of Watches & Sec<
100 cifk« nails ifforted, the
nov ii J n
FOR SALE, ~
By the Sul/fcrlbers '
200 Bolts Ruflia Duck, S",
jo pipes London pai ticular bill Madeira Wine b,t
1 pair nine peund Cannon P'y
' c . w 3*'" Madras Handkerchiefs
40colbs Fine Flota Indigo •»
%3 iiarrri» Ccef.
(illlings b* Francis. .
Peun-ftrttr, >
-?* 0 vets) b* rit ) 4 tiot
FOR SALE
By the Sub/cribersy
ON VHY LOW TERMS per
WAX CANDLES, a ga
of A lUH.HOR QUAHTV,
Ji her by the iingle box of z-jibs. or by the qnan -
tity. CO
Wirings & French* slei
etv. 24 j
x
1
-r ttfl PARTNERSHIP Of
~ Alexr. J. Miller, & Co.
, TjElNtr diffoived on the firl infant, l<y the
t'R 1/ death of James Davis, all persons indebted
he to the sams arc requeftjd to fettle with tUe fub
iiribet, and th«>fc t© whom they are indebted are
requeftjd to cull on him for payment.
ALEXR. J. MILLER,
Na. 64, South Front Jln rt.
)S Who has on hand,
,all TO BE DISPOSED Of ON LOW TERMS,
de- Bj the package cr Piece.
,o<i Fine plain and tamboured Muslins
Gazzennas
aa " Batus
CofTaes
Rabobgungies
l India Callicoes 1 -
Li. Bo»k Muslins
Coloured ditto
NK Real & Mock Madras & puliicat hkfs.
;bt, Brown Silefias
ed- Tickings, &c. &c.
JUST ARRIVED,
AN ASSORTMENT OF
Irish Linens y RufTia Sheetings.
nor 18 {
"d Mrs. Beason,
Lately from Richmond, Virginia. '
L TNFORMS the Public, that /he has for lome
i. tune pall pra&ifed a Cure for the Vellow
0 f Jaundice, Dropsy, and other disorders pecu- 1
liartoWcmen. She likewise offers her services !
m _ as a Midwife. Apply at Mr. John Taylor's,
, r - lt Blstkfmhh, near the New-Market.
r 0 ! no * \ If dat
WRAPPING PAPER. "
FOR SALE, VF.RY CHEAP,
A Quantity of printed Paper, suitable for
Grocers, Tobacconists, &c. Enquire of the
Printer,
lte . no* 20 4t '
ly . 1
:,,t FOR SALE,
AT -THIS OFFICE,
A FEW Copies of an inferefting Work, in
French, entitled a of
The Administration of the French >
Finances,.
DURING THE TEAR 1796. .
a _ Also, An Hiflnrii al and Political View of the
»d Adminiftratfon of th« French Republic, during
:n t ' le year 1797, —ef the causes which produc
er the
Revolution of the 4th September—
And of the reiults of that Revolution.
PR2CR 1 HOLLAR EACH.
These two political trails, are from the pen
of the celebrated ci'lvcrnoiSjand contain a thou
iand Interfiling disclosures of the folly, venality
and of the different Ufurper# who
have reigned in France (hiriiTfc the latter stages
of the horrible Revolution how pending in that
miserable and depraved country,
a Nov. 3. ——__ i
advertisement!
r
e Todd & Mott,
h 0. the City of Philadelphia, .Merchants, having
auigned over their effects, real, personal, and
e ' mixed, to the fwbfcribers for the benefit of all
their Creditors—
Notice is hereby Given,
» ' 1 nrwutta w rnxTiut 1
a -L estate, that they aie required to make im i
. mediate payment tot tbeir relpe(fti*e accounts to ]
cither of the aflignees, in failure whereof, legal
f meafnres will be taken for the recovery of such
r debts asarc not discharged without delay.
John Waddinglon 1 1
' J ohn Rhodes L Aflignees.l '
r John Allen. } '
1 nov - 26 tu.th&fatFi <
, Notice.
' A LL P crfo . n * indebted to the Eftite of Alex- j
t si dectsfc d, or to the Firm of ,
1 Alexander Bilfland and Co. are requested to make
immediate payment to the fubferiber, and those i
■ having demands against the said etate, or to tha <
1 firm of A. Bilfland and Co, are desired to produce v
the fame to ANN BILSLAND, a
, Admin.ftratm to the Eflate of Acxander Bilfland, r
deceased dec.! dfm f
—" — —— r
Notice. f
r
THE creditors to James CosLEv't, efq, are re- }
quested to meet at Bender's tavern in Second ''
llrrtt.onthe 7th of next month, at five o'clock, p
P.M. to consult on business refpe&ing said eflate. B
1 . \rr~ e rcqueft of Bcr, i J niin Harper, f
late Aflignee to James Corlcy. a
f3t
notice. y
| ' ,ncre hants concerned in Ihippiag belong- H
A ng to the port of Philadelphia, are tequtlT- •
ed to meet at the Coffee House on Saturday" the
ift of December,at one o'clock, P. M. to consider
propriety of the draft of a memorial to the general «
government, for an efficient general quarantine «
law, to prevente the imrodudion of contagious dif- «
cases, and of . circular letter to be to gen- <■
tlemen m maiithne cities of the Uaited States of "
America, on tbe fame fubjsfl, for their support in "
the measure, if concurred in by them. 11
By order of the committee appointed the I'd
inflant it the Citv Hall,
LEVI HOI.LINGSWORTH, Chairman
november ao.
' _- . - la
Joleph Thomas's Creditors bl
ARE requelled to meet at the City Tavern in al
Second near Walnut street, on Tuesday evenine. bi
the 4th December, ®*
nov. 30 Y<
■ 41 T
FOR SALE, n;
The time of a Negro Girl, t2 t!
yea s old, has 16 years to serve.— She uas flout a, W
hU J VW * f' *?" Uhv ' and capa
bje ofdowig every houfchold woik. For tc,m. £ v,
Mi , g sa- 22 $<f«*th SecondJlrtet.
———'— ' eodtf
*** An Apprentice will be P 1
taken at this Office; if immediate applica- ea
tion is made. C t
GJ- THE OFFICE ra
OF the Committee appointed to fu at
per intend the building of the Frigate, is "
again opened at No. 95, South Front ol
Street, where attendance will be given ti
to receive the fubferiptions of those gen- &
tieman who hav< not yet made payments. N
november 12.
r
£i)C 6'>oCtC2.
the __j. : ■—
tc ' l PHILADELPHIA,
lit)- -
EVENING, DECEMBER 3.
Extrart fmit a Sermon, preached in Christ
Church and St. Peters, by the Rev. Mr.Aber
crombic, Nov. 4th, 011 theoccaJion ps open
ing the lad Churches, after the late general
Ocknefs ; and repeated by him, at the requefl
of the Congregations, on Sunday Nov. 18,
1798.
T £ X T—
" Psalm 95, vecfe 2. Let us come before his
prfence luith Thankfeiving.
Affer stating some of tt.ofe general inftancrs '
of G> d' 9 providential goednefs towards us,
which call (or our highelt (. ratitudc, ami point- '
ing out some of the motives which fh '*iM le.'d
us thankfully to acknowledge them, the preach
er folem: ly appeals to rh/ consciences of his
'hearers, in an enquiry into their conduct undjr |
such evidences ot divine favor, and-thus con- 1
eludes, with reprefetiting the alarm.ng reverie |
ot circumilanots.
<i Already does danger menace us from ,
L. abroad, undtr the twofold form of open vio- .1
, lence, and the ft:II more alarming, because i
! treacherous, afpeel of insidious policy. So f
.. ' that, in the language of li.tiy writ, fro n (
me " abroad the sword" threatenet!:, «vhile "at
ow home there is death." t
LU "! Till within a very few years, the tempe- ;
c , eS: rature of our climate, has proved in the I
' > highest decree favorable t» health, and fe» J
! lenity of mind ; and the mortality through- f
~~ out our continent, was scarcely more than
! what accident, or the natural decline of life, ■
j occasioned : whereas new, the frequent vifi- <j
p nr ! tation of Difcafe, in «•< reoft teriilic form, f<
he defnlates our once flourifhing cities, by an j v
I nualiy bani/hing a great part of their inha- c
; bitaiits from their aecultomed places of;
! abode, and hurrying, with irrefiltible rapid- j'
! ity, very many of those whom negefiity com- '
1 pels to remain, down to the silent chambers n
in of the grave. (ii
j That these coincidently dillreffing cir- oi
:h ' cumftances may not have been infli&ed as 31
a merited puniihment for our violation,as a
people,of the injundions of Christianity, and "
he a gencrifl deviation from religious and moral [j!
"K redlitude, who can with ceitainty deny? f r
IC ' Yet, when we refledt on the attributes of 01
the Deity—the general economy of his
providence—the regular andcor.fi mcd ope- !
"• ration of physical causes—and the history of- dl
mankind—we ftiould be particularly cauti
:n ous in di.iominating any temporal evil a n<
u- judgment upon the fufferer . : f r
'y The doArine of a superintending provi- fl,
10 dence is indeed clearly inculcated and prov- fp
ed, in almolt every page bqth of the Old
and New Testament, but we are by no ' h
ir.eans either authorized or able to diftin- •
- guifh the particular instances of the immedi- f n °
ate interference of the Deity ! from the or- ■ tu
dinary operation of the eftabiifhed laws of . h<
nature. | m
[Be this however, as it may; it is i afl
A our part as men to commiserate with hu-i p S
11 mility and fear the fufferings of our fflbw j"
mortals ; and while Christian sympathy
heaves_a
d section otour iite catamuy, with all its a fad pr
1 variety of woe," let the benevolent and m
° highly meritorious exertions of those of our
k fellow citizens, who voluntarily rifqued their
lives, to alleviate the of their help
less brethren, be "ever remembered by us c &
with the rtloft refpeafui rjletm, and by those Ai
who were the JubjeSs of them wit h the molt Fr
ajfcdiofiate gratitude. As Chriflians, let us th
profit by the numerous examples of mortal- [J? !
ity, and « prepare for as sudden and unex
petted' a a arrest, as that which fe many '*!
- have so lately experienced. That we aie |,f,
yet fuffered to farvive, is surely a just and a in
; great cause of thaukfgiving. Human life P*
2 even when protrafted to its utmost extent is ali
: very short, and the mod aftive exertions f "
are indispensably neceflary to secure a bliss
• ful eternity. That the greater our prcpa
ration, the greater will be the degree of our
felicity in the next state ofexifteiice, neither
reason nor revelation permit us tv doubt.
How ineliimable then, the pfivilege of hdv
logflillthe opportunity of advancing towards
, perfection ; and, if unhappily hitherto ne
• gleSed, of notv beginniug to thiak, and to me
1 aft for eteruity ! an
To you, brethren, whbfe dc relatives he
or frierds have fallen viftims to the late de
veuring pcllilence, the call to prepare for th<
• death and judgment, to watch and to pray, at "
is awfully loud and affefting indeed. ,ar
" Our dymg friends (fiys the p.oiis Dr Youn.Jcome I G:
o er u» like a cloud, " ' I)e|
" Tc> damp our brainlefi ardor, and abate , .
• « That glare of lite, which ofteo Idiodithe wi/e. r
Out dying friends are pioneers, to l mootli °'
- „ l al ru 6S e °.P i(s 'o death. Our fimtteu friends fan
Are angels fern on errands full ot fove; WP
I " For U, they l. ngu i(h, acd for u s they die; r
And shall they languid, fhali they die in vain ?" fCV
r• i-f. Night
Forbjd u, Reaftn I 0! Forbid it. HeaJn ! fto
Let us therefore diligently improve the U P
late melancholy occurrences whic\ have
been permitted to affairs, an d by which wo
all of us have, in forar degree or other occ
, been painfully affeaed. l at us eagerly a
vail Ourselves of the time and opportunity we
yet granted to us, for working out oureter Wa
nal falvatiuß. With humility and venefa-
Hon, wuh Ctriftian meekness and charity
wuh fervent gratitude, and holy zeal, let' Te
us approach our Almighty Creator, prefer. M<
vcr, ana constant benelaftor ; and with one
mit:d and one spirit, devoutly contemplate J
the operations of hit providence, thankfully
acknowledge our experience of his gooduefs g rc
put our whole trust i„ h.m, and henceforth Civ
earneflly endeavour, by the unremitted ex- 'V
ercile of genuine piety, and the roost aftive ly
virtue, «' io to pas* through things tempo
a ' that finally look not those which
are eternal in the heavens." bei
CKThe OFFICE fta !
of the Board of Comnriffioners, under hoi
Awicle of the Treaty of Amity, bo,
&c. with Great Britain, is returned to '
No - 1,2 9 Mulberry street. a ' n
Nov. ii. ® re
• • v anc
—'" ■ r 1
To Robert Waln, esq.
Delegate in the Cotigrefs of the United 8/at a
FROM PENNSYLVANIA.
SIR, .
EXCUSE the liberty I take in ad&cffinj.
to you a few ;in*s, relative to your p.cfcnt litua
tisn.
rift You are entering a circle in public life, where
ltr . the duties are manifoM au:l important, wtirre
sn - the highest refponfihility attrnds every aiftion.
ril The largeit city in the union has constituted vou
it-ft its dehgite, and experts from your wil'dom
,g, profpenty and fafcty. Philadelphia harl a (hare
in framing the Federal ConHitution and now en
trulls to you its guardiaHfhip : These Sir, ;re
jj sacred deonfitj, and none hut the infamous can
wilfully betray thein—lt is not then in yon
c ." s expeft to find a traitor—but wjtliont the k<-cri
m, eit vigilanre may be fnltuired and the
character of Pliiladciphia bleiniihed in the na
.tj ttonal councils.
L -h.- Recolieif, Sir, (for it is a fart and all the
j, ls world fhuuld know it) you are the Rpprrfinta-
j llr tive of the better p-\r: of this city. ju ohiific
influence wa, exeric,! 10 give lucJcfs t» vourde
rl-e moccatic opponeilt —but the of virtue
aiidfedeialilmwisiriumpbant : Yon h>re then
the reputation of rcfpertable constituents to fup
-«m pnrr, and who are. willing to reft thtmfl-lves 0:1
10. .your justice ; Your former ft,-vices whilst in the
lfe State Legiilature, give rhem thetnnfl fanjnine
S 0 expectations, and implicit confidence in'y.jjr
Ji chararter.
A heart replfte with virtue, and a mind well
stored with ui'eful knowledge, cannot have a bet
ter field on which to diijplav their several quak
ie " ities, than in the Congm's of the Unitid St.,ies.
he If your benevolence embraces every class of
fc. yourfcl'Av crratures, the 'ituation is equal to
1,. the noble wish—but the dutie. attached to this
an I station are sacred and aiiuous YaU inuft bear
: part of the weight of a whole empire—ferl
' yoi rfelf responsible for its misfortunes and co»-
fiderevery national diAjrace as r'jinous t" yonr
n» These confideratroi s ;J« ays in vour mind
n- j will urgj you to exert your talents in a bold
a. ' cor,flirt for honor, liberty and Independence.
0 f i l'he fubjerts which will Co he' before the en-'
' suing Congress w ill n;o!l probably be particular
j ly important—There is I believe a crifis.ap
proa. v..g, when all the vigor of the Fede ali'.t
rs must be furnmoned to lave the state from fink
( ing and defend the con'titution from the attacks
I. of aflaffins. 'This enfis will agitate Congress,
as and give birth to important events : virtue must
a ! then Hand its ground, fcderalilts must feeJ the
|( j native dignity of their c.iararteis—all will dc
pend on lirmnefs—by giving an inch, every
a ' | thing is loft. We need not look for the stab !
• from France —it will come from the boi'om of :
if our own country, and* the hahd which will guide '
is it is no common < ne.
! The system of France has been to conquer by !
dividing. She has a party here, which 4|lugh
weakened is still ftrong-thcy arc a party of
ruffians, men who having nothing to lose, fear
** not the confequencet of civil war—emboldened
I from this motive, they will wield the sword of
i- daughter with relentless fury,and fatten on the
r. lpoilsof their plundered country,
j The prominent feature in l'he chararter of
Q these men is boldness—they are indefatigable in
doing their work—f#r their amkitious" hearis
pant after that eminence which is only acquired
in times of auarchy and coofufion in the tempel
tuous sea of jacobimfm. The mild and digni
if. fied superiority which an eftiblifhed govern
j ment gives, or which is derived from the unbi
s ; afled fnf,rages of a free people, they juftiy view
_J as beyond their attainment; and indeed, is ill
j fuked to Ihe turbulent temper of their minds.
Every go d man should unite * :th government,
Y ill trufbing this hydra in its infancy and lhield
■ 11 1 m 1 J ' r «. "'c *r,u
d property from ruin. At this trying leafon tfje
i m ''"l the Rcprefentative <-.f Philadelphia
r Oioiild be firm, his judgment foiid, his eye pen
r etrating; regardlals ol private views he should
wrfp himfetf ap in his country's fate and ritor
fall with her : Taking the Conlti,ution for his
J ccmpafs when he embarks on the wide oeean of
e ArnerU an politics and steering equally clear of
t french aad Hritifb he wiil anchor at j
3 the harbors of honor and happiness. Fortunate
. 'y» sir > for our city, your past condurt encou
rages us to expeit this charafler in- you, and
with the fervency of a faint I pray to heaven «e
may not he deceived. Your future chararter in
s life will take its fiamp from your present candurt
l in Congress. Philadelphia has long wanted a
s proper fixeti chararter tofeprelent her. Honor ,
5 and gratitude will be the rewards of merit and
s fcderalifm. LUCIUS.
Philidelphia, Nov. 30, 1798.
. FIRE AT RICHMOND.
[extract OF a LETTER.3
j f " Richmond, November 23.
•' Ihe city of Richmond exhibited a most •
, melancholy scene yeflerday. About half 1
»n houf after fun-rife the alarm of fire was '
( Heard. It broke out at the top of a wooden
house near the centre of the town, where
. there were a cluster of wooden buildings, ,
nod three brick buildings, very large. The :
, large brick fto-re and dwelling house of Mefi"
. i Gamble and Temple, fit 11 nted at the cor
ner of the Cross llreet, adjoining the hoiiife
where the nre broke out, and aJarge hoafe
of brick, within about ten yards of the
famefqaare, and belonging to them also, -
were sTiiraculoufiy favsd after being on fire =
several times, and in different places, by c
the exertions of the citizens, which c
(topped the conflagration from extending _
up the main street, but the flames extended | (
down the main street, and coufumed ten v
wooden houses, and one large brick house, v
occupied by two merchants, one of whom v
ia 3 farnily—the goods in these two (lores I 1
were mostly saved from t!v- flame, but there
was a deal of grain consumed that was in
lumber hotifes, which could nnt be got out.
The fufferers are Melfrs. Gamble at:d
lemple, James In .es, Thomas Hooper,
McflVs. Mitchell and Giudner, Richard
Denny, Mcffrs. Dunn and Watt, and Israel
J. Cobcn, merchants ; Mefli*. Wm. and
Oeorge Richardfon,jewellers John M'Leod
grocer, George Gray and Charles Purcell,
1 verfmith, who loft every atom of pioper
tv '"his house—his wife (who was extreme- -
»)' Hi) was saved from the flames by fume
enterprising man, who went up by a ladder "
and took her out of the wi-.dow, the flames -
ing so great that Cue could aot cosoe down
itairs.
There were also fc*»ral ware- j
kitcheas, stables and other out- a
nouses eosifumed by the fire." f
Notwithftandirg there were two engiues f
alraoft constantly playing on the houses, the *
coujd not be checker until it l-eached '
another large buck building (otily eight
I t- Y° m * ;i - ; entirely ctmfuiue *
| which covered with slate or tile, it &
ates ' ,av ' n g a parapet wa'-I around it, war H
pre.crvation of the retraining houses i
that fide cf the ilreee to the bridge—a;
Ting nothing but the conflant supply of waU ;
tua- engine kept this from taking fit.
t c ilamc» had not been flopped her,
S Z" 7 °! er buMn S in the row on thl *
ion. * U j' m '' ' Ine *"itably have been confuroeii b?
you 2[ ' ( ver y P r "bafc!y thol« on the other fide <f i' 4
om, f ltrrcc 8l"», as many of them were fevi- *t,
bare time* on fire, but were extinguished an! - 1
r en- fayed by wet blankets, and knocking tie U" !
'-re flnngies off the toof.. b , l£
can . *
we ———ttftwiiMi i ■ ■■ ttf
•en LOS! ON, November 24..
,ht ,„ « ths re j° ic: »g9 0.1 account of adtm- 01
na- ra! K c , for.'t vidory cook place at Gi bralta- l "
the i g , eiKral at St. Ro a ue sent 10 at
111- 4 a,re the cauff and the annunciation a 11
irfic L \! n ''S ence 10 the Spasiard waifent ex- P
,te P rc:s to Malaga- <5
tW The Aligstor a D d Atalanta hath brough: *
hen .otters directed to the Secretary of State. •'
up- An expedition, it was apparent, was in Ti
Z " 0 '!- Jm P laU °n at Gibraltar. Conjefture 6
; e hnd made Malta its oSjeft ; where the En. to
rjr '
exj.edled to be joined by the inhabit- I t:
ait*. t (■„
'ell Go the 6-h Oili jtai'r, a conyov of ve/felf -- 1
iet- from Engia id arrived at Gtbaltar. A. |
>al- ir.ongd thtm, three liidiamen tranfportsj
having on board 25 hundred troops, Which
to Avcr; ' a °ded at Gibraltar ; and an equal J '
his num her of the garrifori to be embarked, def- I '
?ar tined, as supposed, on the expedition men-I
crl tioned above.
IK- A convoy cf supplies had failed fr«m I
Gibraltar to admiral Ne Ton's fleet; under I
'J ( , thi Coluffos of t 74 guas, capt. Murray.
On ] hurfday th< iiuprer.ie Judicial I
m-' Cotirt of {his Common weal .h, eommtliced I
a ,_ their feflion in this town, by adjournment. I
,p- In a lengthy charge to the Grand Jury, the I
lit Chief Jultfce, after noticing th; varioua da- I 1
*- ties of tliat inquslt, dillated in a plain and I I
y** intelligent manner, on ttre dtftf.TCToir of-l 1
uft 1 rsafon, mifprifion of Treason and Sediti- I I
j le on. He contracted the rigorous afts of li
[ c . Congress, made during the lad war, with ■ '
ry the lenient meafurej of the last fcflbn, I
ab which had been made the engine of popular ll
of clamour—the latter he said were silken I T3
:de cords, while the former were brazen fetters. I
j H« mentioned that the common law coil- I
;h templated ledition. slander aud defamation, |f r
of as crimes fatal to society—that th; sedition I
■ar aft did not llop the mouths of the people, I
ed nor manacle the press ; but was a check on I
ot the promulgation of falfehood. That every I
e one might comment on adminiftf-atoi* aad Bit
of adminillration, provided they did not violate H«
; n her sacred rights. That trials tor I q
ria were, by a jury oj peers, which are of the Bii
;d most liberal kind. That the words fpokeu K 1
ft- nmll not offly be true, but spoken with ■ l
malicions intent. Nay, he detnonftrated, Bo
that this law enlarged the people's rights, f p
, u , and circumscribed the power of the court; I
j;j that the punishment for slander and feditioa I
Is. at common law was undefined and difcreti- ■
it, onary, but is now rellrided by the Itatute. I
■ld Th« l« irn«>l jn Jg ■iw « fn-nfter, ■v.
proved the exittence of a French faction in l [
the bofbni of our couetry ; and expofedthe I
n . French fylteoi-morgers, fr«m the Quin- i ]
Id tumvirate, in Paris, to the Vice President
or and minority io Congress, as the apoltles of
its atheism a;id anarchy, bloodlhed and I
"f plunder.
On Monday at Salem, a beautiful ship, K t
pierced for 20 guns was launched. She
id belongs to Mr. JDerry. At Charleftown, lj ;(
► e famt day, the new ship Galen, of 261 tons, If
m designed for the LeuJon trade. Her kee! p u
"- 1 lias been laid only about 70 day*. She
a | now litb at l<owe'« wharf. L'
ar ■''
MEW-LONDON, Nov. a 6.
PIRATES.
John Maitheivs, Solomon Gecr, and Peter t
Leacockt are held up ro public execration, as f",
Amcrkan French pirates, 1 hey have failed
from Curracua, in a privateer fchooiier of ten IUI1 UI
guns The two latter have declired, that every I'
American they capturt, they willftrip even of
his shirt. And every captain of an American
ft armed ship, ought to declare, he will use his
j£ best endeavors, thjt-tltcirJi«j«/j Anul i make bat—-
tuns for bullai,
is J
n NEW-YOKK, Nov. 3 0.
c Besides the NIN TH confirmaiion as Nelson's
>< viilury, capt Adams, from Gibraltar, brings*
e an account of a war between the and
f Turks.
g Mails for South-Carolina 'Jf Georgia >
e "OACKETSarenow provided i'ur carrying the
1, Jl Public rnaiisby water Philatelphia
e and Cbarlcftoii. They will leave Philadelphia
on Friday's. The post by land will becoDtinu-
I td twice a u eek until an experiment i. made ii»
1 regard to the expedition and regularity of the
J packets. If any. perl'on chufes to have their
I let\erj sent by land only, thry will pleafr to.
l write the word Land upon the letters : other
, wife lUev will he sent by that c.nvc'yance which
will firft start after (h(> letters arc left in fcbe
poft-cffice.
: y°f £ ph Haberjbam y
, Pvjl-ftfrijltr Gemerl.
Philadelphia. Auirujl 13, 1795.
1 : '
PIIIJ\TING \A ORK,
! Of Every Kind\ 1
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
I At the Office of the Gazette of ib&
, United SrAXts,
OA. 13. dtf -
e TEN DOLLARS REWARD,
r -pvESERTED lafl night, a Iccoftd time, from
- I J the Marine Canip, DnH Lufer, a fifer.—
He hadwhea hewent away, a plain I lue jacket and
II vert,light b'.neoveralls,alound hat,which tydbecrt
bound With yellow, and -.vhith he had ripped off
- in hit ill ft deferiion, and a pair of nrw fhoei. he is
• a Carpenter by ti-ade, has eyes.sandy hair
fallow complexion and a nitch in his upper lip
His back i« ftlH f>>re frorr. a flogging he got a few
days ago He may he difcovtrcd by hu fifefng,
e ,a; he plays extremely well.
i ' W. W. bURROWS Major Com. of rne.
t O&sber I?. Marine Cotps.1..•* _* • • .
By tfjte W&fS il
HALIFAX, Novcm' er 17.
Britain'* IVooiLn Walls," and America's
" Wooden Walls" reciprocal.
Sun,lay latt came up the Harbour, in 10
days from Newport, Rhode Island, the Uni
ted State) (loop of wrt Herald, Capt. Se
ver, and brig Pickring, Capt. Chapman.
—The brig Commerce, C apt Childs, came
u ider convoy of these velTels Th« Herald
after anchoring fired a salute, which was re
turned by Fort George, on Citadel Hill.
Soon after Capt. Sevrrs, aud Capt. Chap
man landed in the Herald's barge, and paid
their refpefts to his Excellen y Lieu- '!
tenant Governor, Vici-Admiral yandeput,
and Brigadier Gen. Murray.—Tin's pleating 1
presage of a return of harmony and recipro- i
cal friendfhip, mull ass ird the highest satis- J
fjdtion to every friend to his country, and
the firmnefs t>f the Federal Government in t
i Tefufing to become the dupes of French per- c
sidy and fi-duftion is a fufficiert inducement
to every Bitifh fuhjeA, to treat the Ameri
can flau with the highest refped, and her n
faithful citizens wit i every degree <Jf ajten- a
tidn and civility. a
* ~ d
■ NEW-YORK, December ju r
Arrived yeft.-rday the ship E.iza, .captain tl
Barr, 53 day* from Hamburg, wirh a tl
file t>f Hamburg papers up t>< the 6th f<
Ocljber tail. Th if: papers having been ti
handed to us at a bite hour, we c nnot
111 this day's paper give fnch general de- ft
tails as wc could have wilhed We have, ff
ho wewr, procured :he tranfl:iti'»n of fe- 1 ti
veral articl.s, among which is thedeclar- tl
ation ut war by the Porte France w
This we ccncriv; to be highly mainen- F
tous in the prefrnt poliiicai ciifis. In ar
our n;xt we (hall lay before our readers th
, luch other particulars from our file as we lan
may find interelCrtg and worthy their at- I
tent ion. x , I
** No Peace to the Wicked /" n «
HOtY WK IT. J re i
I r y
TRANSLATED FOR THE MERCANTILE jti
ADVERTISER. u s.
From the State Gazette of Hamburg, of 03. 2. I
VIENNA, September 22. I nC
r I rev
(Frvm the Court aper.) - j
By advievs received from Cnnftantinople ant
Jt appears, that the Porte V.as formally de chi
clared war against the French ; in confe- I
quence whereof the French Minister Ruffin, the
M conduaed to the Prison of the Seven adr
Towers. All the individuals of the Frertch I ic;
Nation are taken into cuflody ; and all the I ced
Merchandize, and property belonging to the I Te
French, are arretted. | divi
From the fame Gazette of the sth Oftobcr. I Lei
CONSTANTINOPLE, Sept. 6. 1
The folUwi rvnV,,,. nf I I
by the Sublime i'orte against France, puk- I "
lifhed yesterday :
" At the moment when the Gr«nd Vizier I
Mehomet Pacha tsok pofleflion of his fta- J '
tion, it was his duty to be attentive to the j
welfare of the Hates of the Ottoman Em- I dife:
pirc. and never to lose fight of the cm- l inha
duct of its enemies : but notwithstanding I re,t
his duty, motives of. felf inter, ft engrolfed a S r '
the whole of his attention, and he did not
provide himftlf with the knowledge of the J unde
hostile preparations making by the faithlefs have
French, nor did he acquaint therewith in I
due time the inhabitant) of g-ypt. I lamei
" 'he unfortunate tidings from that lc " ldl
quarter cam,; not to our Imperial ears till y 0 "
one month after the disagreeable circum- Clt y'
nances happened which have increased our siTe 1
sorrow and uneasiness to fuel, a degree, that P ,ied
(we take God to witness) our tears .lowed { cret '°
and we were deprived of fieep and t'rSi
qurlity. r you t
" ,y Vb f ef "? we havejudged it proper to ■ . 0n
dismiss the said Mehemet Pacha from the 5'
itation of Grand Vizier and have named I tha " :
in his tlead JusTus Pacha, G >vernor of Er- |,P nr P°
m J a « d " 'til his arrival, we nominate
you, Mullapha Bay, to fill his llation. an '* P 1
f -.'L , 3S becomes duty of all the tiifcaf<
fa.thful to make war against hose infidrls,
the 1 rench, and as it is th ft inalienable du
Jht » our < I!T nal pcrfon ' 10 dcl ' 7c,r ,h - f « '
I .and holy countries from their perfi
d.ou, hands and to take vengeance furthofe
injurit' done hy them to the MmTelmcn ; so
no de.ay can be fuffered .until the arrival of 5
ie new created vizier; but the itrongeft Tl,<
meaiures are to be taken ,0 oppose and it- a " d Ci
tacs tlum both by fta and lan 1. I exprtfl
of 'r'h Wl,e " fort - WnfiiUißg to'the wisdom ouf fe
the mo ft learned in our law, the minister) g fi " cr <J
and the chiefi of our thefts, and in a full thou,a
° n ncc God and his Prophtt, you arc J thc
to execute the mod efficacious measures to I inlhmt!
rfdw Hm province of Egypt from the hand Th <=
.the Frei.ch. press tl
"\ »u are to announce to the true be. of Cha
itvrrs 111 the said country, that we are at rn,ir ' t '
w>r with France ; and by day and oiVftt mc PP er
you are to moll cfteflual measures A "
to take vengeance on them. You are alf«. " f Cha
t0 Wateh ' a,,d to secure the rif,dcn
other pruvincts, and our fron- from fl
4iers, againlf the attacks and the iniquit.V me ' an '
of the enemy ; and for this purpofc, to fe" the dr
cure every ..arbour and place with neceflary their c<
itrcngth troops, and war materials. The
" Alio, Oil the fame principles, you are tatlc rt
to employ a:l your zeal and attention, to bat the
provide the fnhjeds of this our Imperial winl-er
>e 1 Jnice with the neceTary pi ovifians
and in the wnol* to watch for the Concerns
.of every individual; until ihe new Grand
V i/.ier Hiall .unte.
" U'e will t>e attentive to your condtiA :
and may the Almighty God, with his God
ly grace, fopport our undertakings,- and Henr f 1
niake us prosperous t he defence of our """"
c *Ufc "
" SJEJLIM." KEM
Nov.
-
- From VuAttii, 2 2,1 September.
ls fl'Pp fed that iht naval engagement '
near Abukir, in it) consequences may be
viewed as au cpqch in the history of the pre
> ent Fhe victory of Nelfou has de
-rica s tjrmined the Porte to declare war against
France ; against a nation with whom they
in io were for a long time in friendfhip and. alii
e Uiu- ance. It will.even .fend an army against '
it. Se- Buonaparte in Egypt. Eastern Eur-pe, |
ipman. which was in tranquility until this time, is
i, came p° w in \*«i!ike connexion against the lead- i
Herald in g Power of the Weft—again ft France. ,
was re- As tlje French' Mmifter Ruffin at Con- |
"Jill- ftantinople is confined in the ftatc prison of 1
Chap- the Seven Towers, we are anxious to know
d paid what will became of the Turkilh Minister
Lieu- in Paris. '
deput, The French admiral's ftu'p I.'Orient, was
leafing blown up, owing to the magazine taking j }
:cipro- fire On board of her was the mii.'tary chest !
satis- and all the treasures of
y, and In consequence of the victory of Nelfan, ! 1
•nt in the Egyptians have kept rejoicing, for 3 8
h per- days along the coast. j r
ement ' September 26.
Kmcri- A private letter from ponftantinople '
d her mentions that the Grand Seignior has given ;''
ajtea- as a present to the viflorious admiral Nelson J
an Aigrette, of the value of at lealt 80,000 ! •
dollars currency of Constantinople. This : 0
rich . ornament is of so much diftinaion, j p
iptain that it u never worn by any )erfon but by !
'irh a the Grand Seignior on his turban. In I
: 6th former times this privilege was only allowed 1
been to the Khan of the Tartars,
nnot Admiral Neifon, at the be'inning of the
il de- engagement "a? wounded in bis face by a
have, fpli'iter ; but, although bleeding, he con
jf fe- tinued ep deck during the whole of the bat
eclar- tie, without haying his wound drrfled. He
ance waits for 'i „ r kiTrt fire ftips to deftr<„- the
men- Fieftch transports in the harbour of AleXr
In ?.ndria. During the battle the French
idtrs threw into the sea, several chests of gold
is we I and si.lv. r.
r at-
J * CHARLESTON, November 14.
J Yesterday having been appointed for a ge
neral review of the militia of this city, (the ni
<it. j re giment of artillery, the regiment of caval- j B
I ry, arid the 28th and 29th regiment of infan- 1 Bi
ILE jtiy,of which it is composed), paraded as G
I usual on the State House square. Having ve
I regulated the line of march, they proceeded tg
Ito the Washington rac, course, where a va- fio
I riety of evolutions were performed under the dr
I review of Brigadier General Washington,
I Adjutant Gen. Manning. M'ajor Beekman,
oplc and a numher of other Mfpeftable military
de j charafters t j, (
mfe- I Ihe day afforded a pleasing teflimony of ma
ffin, j the military patriotism order, discipline, and int
;ven aJroitnefs of the immediate bulwark of Ame- anc
rfch j ' ican independence ; and must have convin- cos
the j ced all French .lpojlcs, that the Nation of int.
the I Terror) can have little to hope from flxh wh
I divifi o«.jjar, ar
r. Letter from H. W. DefaufTure, Esq. In- Chi
tendant of this city, to Wm. J ones, Esq. the
-Vir 1 —pFjli rfjbe. Haaith. [ rir.l
ub- I lln S a b, 'l w 5.100 dollars. will
I Cltarleflon (S. C.J Oft. 9, 1798. J ous
:ier I IR ' . . be :
fta- I . cif'zens of Charleston gave learnt that
the J with the fisccreft regret of the afflifting r
m . I disease, which has taken off so many of the thei
in- I '"habitants of Philadelphia, and driven the as tl
■ nj , reft from their homes, and expos.d them in of p;
fed I a S. reat measure unsheltered, to the incon- the
10t veniences and wants of a temporary exile ; men
h , under the impression of their sympathy, they zeal
■fs hav ® for the relief of coun
; n I tli nfe d litre (Tea which they most linceiely 6.
lament The willing i„ft ru .i,e ßt of their litia,
at kindneigj I have the farisfa&ibn to enclose er6 a
ill u a draft of the Branch Bank of this the f
city, on the Bank of the United States, for they
Jr five thousand oijie hundred dollars, tobeap- to V
u plied by the Board of Health, in their dif- Con!
, cretion, most beneficially for the fuffcrers. 7.
By the mail boat of this day, I enclose Wor
you the duplicate of the bill. , v ; th
0 L-°" tht " failin g" f ca Pt- Garman, I fitsll of th
ie (hip you a quantity of rice (not lef) I hope 8.
d j an 2 ?° Ucrc «») to be applied to the fame becor
j p» r poie. f
e W.th the fincereft prayers For the speedy navaT
an*. permanent relief of your city from the State
e disease which has so fev.rely affliaed it. his b-
I lam fir, with refpea. 0
Your most obedien* servant, happi
H - W - OESAUSSURE. and S
t '•**»
, Philadelphia, 30th OSoler. 1708. pende
p I sir, tions
'■ J l A* B ? ard V f Manage, ot the Marine 10.
and City Hospitals, have received yeur kind James
exprtffions of sympathy. for the distresses of 1 the Se
lour tellow citizens, accompanied with the War,
generuus aud benevolent donation of five and ali
thouland one hundred dollars, in a draft on rity. :
I the Bank of the United States, which was fpeaii
j inltantly paid. I n
The Board, Sir, in charging me to ex- >and E
press their acknowiedginents to the citizens minilti
of Charleston, for this libei al and appolite indepe
mark of their philant.,ro P hy, have afforded eminci
mc perlonal and peculiar fatinfcflion. incent
An inumate knowledge of the citizens 12.
<.t Charleston for many years, and a pleating the lar
residence there, has rendered every thing in the
from that quarter, particularly interelling- to deral t
me, and I pray Heaven to avert from them i».
the dreadful fcoutge which has exe.cifed bernia,
their comnuleraiion. Societ
The Rice you mention will be an accep- •
tabic -relief to the .nd.gent who have to com- furate
bat the accumulated miferie.of an inclement / 14..
winter- t.
On behalf the Board of Managers m-nV;
1 T / It-
b ""' . j6.
W.th perfea esteem,
«r,T r , YOUTS re o eafully
. JONES, President. By ,
Henry Wm. Defau/fure, Esq.
intendant of Char/rflon. '
MAYOR'S OFFICE B x 1
KEMOVED to i J7 South Second-street 1
• j By.
«
rement i f)?
uy be -
ie pre- PHILAD ELP HIA ,
has de
against MONDAY EVENING, DECE\TPER 3.
" | v
Igainft | This he,us; the day on which, atrreeablv
ur pr, 1 to tli; ronftitution, th<-congress of th- U
me is ritcd States were to afHrmbie, forty m ™.
- I«d- bets of the hotife of representative, attended
'ce. in tlieir chamber. Fifty f«ur bring requi-
Con- fit, to 'orm a quorum, thehoufr adjourned
k" . 1 row morn '«g at 11 o'clock. :
ini'fter The Members of the Senate
appeared tins day » J
, was TT Mr - Lan ff <,c, n and Mr. Livetmorr, New
a-k. r , Hampshire ;Mr Foster and Mr. Greene, ,
chcft ! l r ? m Rhpd , e - Ifland ' Mr - P"'n?ham, Pen..- 1
fylvanta ; Mr Marshall, Kentucky ; Mr. f
for * ' S ' a ; and Sm,th ' from Tenneflee, in '
3 j room of Mr. Jackson.
The number aflVmbled not being fuffici- *
nople Cnt t0 form 3 < l uornm . th e Senate adjourned
given t0 11 °' c ' oclc t0 morrow morning.
felfon j F/iday, the 30th day of November, be-
Thi'a i ing - S '' /,nd ' e " M ' s D "y> the St. Andrews
' Society of Philadelphia met at the hoafeof ,
it b' Shs, '" e ' 18 Third-ftree:, when the sol- 'J
> lowing officers were chosen for the eufuin«- "
L " year: 0 w
3 wed ' »J)
The Rev Dr. William Smith, Prefidfnt. ar
f the James Craig, Esq. 1 Vice Pre- j„
iy f a William Macpherfon, Esq. J fideiits.
con- Mr- Thomas Ewing, Trcafurer. ltj
bat- Mr. David Walker, Secretary. ■ Cl !
He The Rev. William Marshall, Chaplain.
• the William H 1 od, Esq. Coutifellor at Law p
i.. v Thomas Leiper, "
Inch Wm " "Furnbull, J"
gold Wm. M Laws,
S John M'Cavily, Affift«nt». £
James M-Alpin,
John Kincaid, 1 ,>
VJ
* After thr bujuefs (if the Society was si- a<
(the ! nifhed, the members, together with the
Jval- j British Ambassador and Cunful General, the
ifan. : British Commiflioners, the officers of the St ve,
I as George's and Hibernian Societie*, and fe- of
ving veral guelts of diftmdion, partook of an el- lat
:ded tgant entertainment provided on the occa- Y(
va- fion, at wliich the following toads were wl
the 4rank: - co
ton, 1. The immortal memory of St. Andrew, bu
ian, 2. !he Land of Cakes. Gil
ary 3 . The President of the United Slates, : tac
the veteran Patriot and enlightened States- i
of man—May his wife councils and inflexible arr
a integrity continue to rrufh domijlic fa&ion ' fail
®e- an & foreign in trigue ; and may he live to i not
-in- conduft our good ship Independence cot
los into the Harbour of Peace and Safety, cor
;c " while the billows of foreign perfidy break ter
harmless by her fide.
r „,t• G r e ® Walhington, Commander In 1
f v J e A r . mi " ° f th f United States, ver;
fq. the Father of 111s Country, whofc name and am>
' Vl -i, UStT t. tW present generation, ffeCt
will convey to their pefterity, in one illuftri- cut
° U6 jf'f" (, to which nothing more can :
be added) the indelible remembraiice of all
nt that was great and good. f ror
k g v 5-' J he eopie of the U " !ted States, and ver
he tueir Representatives in the General as well nied
tie as th«'State Governments—Mayan oblivion ana
in oi pa It ammofities obliterate party spirit, and pret
n- the only future ftrifp be the flrife of free- Chij
men, for pre-eminence in public vinue, and
;y zeal tor the honor and independence of their «ati.
at country. '
• y r • 6 'f r !' e er r Volu! >tccr Corps, and MI- K
ir I'tia of the United States—As Citizen Soldi- natic
.e era and a Band •of Brothers, animated with
is the spirit of onr revolutionary war, may Th
»r they follow thecal! of their Veteran Cl,vrf on «
>- to \ idory or Death, in defence of the c=n
Gonltitution and Liberties of their country.
7- The People and Powers of the Old 1
e World, who maintain faith and friendfhip (
.vith their defcendeotsin the United States
1 of the New World. 1
e 8. Our rising wooden W/x—May they I
e become impregnable ; and,' m defence of C
our commercial and civ. 1 rights, may every
f naval Commander and Tar of the United A
: States, emulate the glory of n Nelson anil . [
. his brave BRiTtsH Tars.
9. The memory the departed and the v
happinets of ihe Jurviving patriote.ftatefmen,
and Soldiers of our revolutionary war—May
their labours io accomplishing and their
wisdom in eltablithing our liberty and inde
pendence, upon fiee and permanent conftitu (tSfl
lions of government, be forever honored.
r '°' othy Pickerin ?' Wolcott,
. J am " M'Henry, and Benjamin "Stoddert
the Secretaries of State, of the Treaftiry, of
War and of the Navy, alike diftinguiLd,
and alike honored, for their wisdom, i te ß ! i
rity, and indefatigable industry in their re- BriV 1
; fpecxive departments. '
ir. General Marfhr.ll, General Pinck.uy, rh
land Elbr.dge Gerry r, U r late env, Ts Jj
m.mlters to the French republic-May their ?h,
lndependart spirit, uncorrupt integrity, and Dor
eminent diplomatic talents, be a laudable El
tncentive to and future Ministers. Th<
12. ll,e Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, eomcr
the land we live ,n_may it preserve its rank s he ,
111 the Union, by federal principles and fe- York
deral exertions. Y °7 C '.
13. The St. Gebrge\ Society, the Hi- at Liv
berman Society the German Incorporated f ai j so,
i Society, and allbencvoleut Societies through h i £ r
out the world, may their means be comme,,-
furate to the ends of .heir inlJitution p 1
<l4- Scotchmen', Wives and Scotchmen's r i^d"
i Ba.rns, and all who wi(h to lie in Scotch- c *
men s airms. . a P
15. The American Fair. XT '^ ra !
16. The Bcggai*s Beuifen. in^io^
VOLUNTEERS.
I ,nd ß /« the , Brit, '( h M, ' ni ' ftcr - P "P««al good
AmeWca g Grcat 6ritai 'n and
r,v ßy M C Pre< j dcnt of the Hibernian Soci- (
, Ev a> ' U P 6 "J- 1 thc da y s of °" r I'ves. 5
! By Jamc « CCra g» Efq- Vice President of Dec
'lie St. Andrew Society, Every ioneft i
man his own, and every rogue a ha!t«r
- . h y thf President of the S . Andrew Sol
4 r"^ V " ,J}, e mcmor . v °f ou r la.e Picfidenc, |
n • Judge Wilson-
By the Vice Pnfident of St. George So-i
R3. ciety. May the doors of hospitality uever I
- turn on rusty hinges.
By J. Craig, Esq. Perpetual itching, |
reeablv Wltfl "ut the benefit of fcratchaiig, to the e- '
th- U I of our Government".
t mem-I,
tended b V St. Andrew's Society of New- I
requi- York:—
ourned '' Tllt pliant NELSON, every Officer
and every Seamen of his fleet. 3 cheets." '
Seaatc Extras tf a letter from Nemry, dated Sep.
New- „ r , ■ 1 79 8.
Ireene, , a 1 " ave """'ted mentioning that about
Penti- Fr^ b troo P» l *«ded in Sligo bay,
. Mr ten days ago> who have every nJn
Geor - the'y 7 ° Ur UOOf,S ' Whh ""'"e w
ee, in __ p,
'uffici- Extra s °/ a If «er from Holland, dated the ~
urned , 3 ,° 0 179 5 . written by a gen
tleman of the highett refpe'aability, and r
on the correftnefs of whose judgment, r ,
r, be- ® nd '"formation, the most implicit cei.fi■ tl]
trey's may be placed. 1,1
afe of , ' fhc energy and great refpeaability of -
,e sol- 's*s Unif ed States, has produqed a ft*. -of
ifuing thlr m th «.Direflory of Paris, from which
we may yet fee the rights of neutral , W ions
tn general respected. It would dilate eve.y
p r - artC ' y ln y° u 'he glory which is fpread
ts o wr 'he United States, at this moment,
i" the eyes ot Europe. She comes on the on
age, at an instant, highly propitious to
un ft' r heart of this con "'n<nt had _
Law V '' •? C " htfr foot with firomsfc;
France recoils, a;d every body is revived!"
and in triumph ; for France does recoil, and 1
, T i 3t re0 * i " on will but confirm, ■ '
what sfton.fljment firft produced ; and that ha
ffie will recoil further, if we will preserve a **
leady afpeft and a vigourous preparation. g '\
God hlefs my country—ffie isdfeed ads to of
as si- charm.
1 the
I, the The (hip Clothier, capt. Gardner, arri- E "
e St. ved here yesterday, left Liverpool the sth 5 th cal
scot Oaobcr, conleautntly bring? nothiug
.n el- later than the America, arrived at New to
acca- Vork ; but it was reported that the fleet,
were which lately left Brelt was 011 the weUeni am
coast ot Ireland, and there was little doubt am
[rew. but the » hole would be taken, as a very vi- ral
. gilant look <K U t after them was kept by de- d . ifl
ates, J tachments eif the Britifli fleet. I" 1 ]
atef- 1 The brig Liberty, captaia Lillibridge, * '
{ible arrived here ye erday from Bourdeaux, anc
lion tailed the beginmg of Odtob'er. We do '»a
e to | not find that captain Lillibvidge brings a fro
NCE coufirmation of the account of peace being '
ety, concluded at Raitadt, as mentioned in a let '
reak ter from Nan: Z! received at New-York.
rin Private letters by the Clothier, from Li- cip;
ites, verpool, intimate, that a party of French,
aad J™l l ' l,D "'ng to about 7,000, after having ef
-1011, Mefted a landing in Irels'nd, \4ere all either
ftri- cut to pieces or made prisoners.
can
all Yesterday aftewoon arrived in this city
from Detroit territory, north weft ot the ri
and v er Ohio (lall from New York)
vell nied by J. Sche.fFelin, Esq. Agent of Indi
ion .an affairs, and Whitmore Khapp, Inier
lr,d pretcr, the following ( hiefs of the Ottawa,
■ee- Chippawa and Poutewataray natrons, viz.
ind Abewdy, Matchipafquifigan, Ottawa
ieir ;«ation. « I? .
Mangy, Chippawa nation. j Mad
Kiflcs on the 6un, Okia,
di- nation.
ith , ' By
a dci
• r was in London, extempore, by
£ one of the aftors at clk'Thcauc, ihe the news
he came of Neifon'* deleating the Sansculotte* fleet.
y- of — IVaJhington'i March. I At
Hail! brave NHfon'a glorious baud !
lp Of British tars, near Egypt's land
s VVho couquer'd thc stout fleet ot France— . » .
Thr fleet of all ipiring Fraiicc-
Hail great George ! our glorious king,
f y May cv»,y g ay f rc fh bring :
Of Our fl.ei tnumjj.hant m?.v they, ride,
And oufo th" San'culottifh pririn :
J d M«"y nc'tr a Ihip ot France remain < ' ec
Jfc plunder, rob wpon the main.
'd Let liriton'a sons united |^e,
Jn cru(hiifg their curst enemy. 45
lc We'll flo* and drub them if we meet, 0
And >iurl tfte tyrants btn their feat. 5 1
BeingfunguD':xpcftedJ)-,ii n,et with great appljufe 3j
ir
s- dec
j dsasette #ariae Hilt
(Y
Port of Philadelphia. that h
>f ARRIVED days
'> Ship Clothier, Gardiner, Liverpool, 57 atone
Enterprise, Salem, t e kil "l!T
Brig Eliza, Vaujjlian, Gibralter, 44 cu " ore
Liberty. Lillibridge, Bourdeaux, 59
» The (hip Favourite, was to fail from Li-
wpool, for this port, the 15th of Oft.
r The brig Pilgrim, captain Pease, of this A L
port, fjiled for St- Thomas's several days be- , re ~
c fore'he Liberty. th r '
,n, r , 1 thole I.
Ine lcnooner Hopewell, captain Mont- lorwai
> gomery, of this port, wai in ihe Garonne, tleß,tn
' ,'^ e Ofkober, ready to fail for New
" York. .
Ship Liberty, Bray, from hence arrived
at Liverp; ol ths 24th of Sept. and was te
fail for Philadelphia 10 day,s after the Clo
-1 thier
Ships Lady Lilli«nfhield and Crown
Prince of Denmark, from hence, have' ar
-5 rived at Denmark.
Captain Vaughan, of.the Eliza, left at ^ —
Gibraltar the 15th of O&ober, the brig Sea \ p
Nymph, Odlm, of aud tor this port, to fail A 1
in 10 days* ,
' who cai
Fnqyin
FOR SALE,
BV THE SWBSCRIBIRf, And
14 four pound Cannon, rifFcreat lengths, \ o
5 Carronades.
JOHN NIXON 8c CO. pan of
December 1. [ dec 3
Wit jMALAGA I«RX;iT3 £r wi&s;
cw Sol , TOMORROW MORNIXB,
riidenc; j pjccifely at ico'cJock,
j I ill be Sold by Public Aucftonl
S eSo 'l n Mu«« ls ' W'HAur,
' HCVCr ! „ M above the Drawbridge,
chi'ng, ! 1C C.argo of the Brig Eliza^
the C■ I CONSISTING Of '
480 harnl iuu Aaifinj
6oq boxei'Vlnfcatcl do.
.. T . *®o diito lJloair.c dtt.
rJew- I H > kegs Fijjj
103 'exes Prunes
ifficer, 100 kegs Aichwvies
, ts •> ' c ® j»rs Grap«-
V° thefts Leti.om
, J° boxes Jordan Altßoudb
* otp* ' oft ftclled dirtom facki
Mounting Wine, in quarter calks, &c
about Shannon & PoalL Autfrsl
bay, december j n
r m.n N ' ® For all purchalci -t rr-Ci-ding Two Hun
thing "J 1 , Dollar ", approved iaduriau we , „ t 60 <ia»»
will b» received payment, a d the necefiary ex
port entry Wi lbe made for such who mavpur
ehafe for exportation. *
the
and r I-?. go u r 7 Ami »blc, Darnel '
. 1 g ha "» «»!*«•. ior Lbndtfn; will be
rC n Cl^ d o \ l ! 2 ' North ua
till the Bih lust. inclufivc.
ty of .. df . C ' 3- *8 h -
..-of Vo.unteer Greens.
' h ich __
;ions . Gentlemen composing the Tnop
very Volunteer Greenj, will meet at Wo, O^r
•srad- <ic "' 3 1 vein, in Chefuut-ftieet, on Thurf.
lent, " a y evening the 6ih instant, at 6 o'clock,
1 t |, e on business of importance.
,s to JOHN - MORRELL Capt.
had Oecembtr 3_ 1798.
ess; WOODBURY "ACADEMY'.
ved. "
and IH£ Trufteea of tbe VVoodhiit-y Academy,
" m > \ ty ..f GlnueelUr, New Jer'er,
that sve 'he fi-ntaaioi) to iiiform the numerous
ve a TJ 16 , 0 L inr, '" l ' io "' tflir lll «y I'Jve en
ion B ■■ Ktvert " d Unmas PiVjn, to be :he
.7' and to take upnn himlelf the chiree
to ef the above ieminary bf learning, and that the
ichool will be opened 011 Monday Khz tenth inft.
* r g , the . exerc,f * s ""K 1 1 here, will be the
irri- hn S'''h,Latm and Greek languages, gramati
-sth n r—Rcad, ng , Writing ar.d Arithmetic in all
liucr bra " L :^ ,: tonography. Geometry, Geogra■
S phy and the use of the Globes, Navigation, Sur
lcw vying, isc.
itet, This institution was formerly under the care
tern and direction of the Reverend Andrew Hunter,
übt a "d the fame attention to the education and mo
' v '" ft*- ° f !i e *y°« th w^'c h 1 niler him so highly
de _ diltingu.bed it, will be purlued with inn -it
ting endeavor,, by the prel'ent principal and du
ly attended to by the trustee«. '
Ige, The town of Woodbury - fifua ed on an high
lux, and elevated spot :It is airy, ,Ic.fam, And re T
do ilia: kab y healthy, ar,l | HU „ Be mlie , t | r Uaw
5 a fron' the City of Ph ladelphi,
■' n K HarentJ, guardians a> <1 others, wh-i <Ji -
, pofcd to fend their youth to th s d l .- -1
exceeding . o -d, dec n't and o ,b .
ing and lodging, and pa.,
Fur hirapplicatiun may .emadc to ti.= rit_
1.1- cipal, or
ch, John Sparh "J
ef- , Thomas Hendry
her Franklin Davenport I
Jo/uaL. Howell
John Blucltvjod
ity Lawrence I
ri- Thomas Hejlon j
pa- i' t ISI-TA CL ' KK,
di- Secretary of the Board.
-r- Woodbury, Dec 3 _ ( | lct
6 LAWRENCE S? CKEL, ~
HAS POR SALE AT HIS STORE
iVa No - 1 55' Market-Street.
j First quality London Particular )
! Madeira, Post, Shwry and Lisbon ? WIN ES.
Ny Cogniac Brandy, ift to 4th proof.
( Sp rits.
By the Pipe, Hhd, Qnarter-calk or Gallon,
fiL.i. ' .. niw&fur
w * TO-MORROW,
WILL BE LANDED,
■df Wharf, from on board, the
Schooner Thomas, Captain Broyvm,
From MAkt 1 tngjje
xii iJhds. of bright Mufcovada
S U G A R,
For Sale, by
Philips, Cramond £3* Co.
dec a
For Sale,
45 Boxes Hsvanna Sugar
ftt Cr-oix do f Entitled to
J t Bags Carracas Cocoa C Diawbark
e 3j "hds. Coffte ) '' wt,Jr,£ -
RUNDLE c-j LEECH,
No. 9, Walnut.street.
dec % f^
► HE LFFR ICH ~
O Fr i ERS S k ! nd <cr vice to h ' B fr «nds and the
,1 1, Fi U s S encral ' and informs them
that he will undertake fmoaking of Meat in the
s compleateft manner, and at the cheapest ,atc •
h.sa large fmoak-houfe, in which he will Imoke
1 at once a thousand piece—h c would therefore
S " d!r t J> ank !h f fe wh » would » v«r him their
+ iSafesfis. 10 him at the corn " 01 shi i ) -
l
Notice. ~~ r "
3 A L n'. PCrf ? RS ind r ebted 10 the El>ate of J OBN
L \ B*rz, late of Southwark, haker, dece fert
- ire reqneflad to make paymct"
thole i.aviHg any demands againit la d £ ',„,e to
' tt'o e,r aCC ° U " t *' rr ° l>Cr!y ,ttefled . for'f.t
---; CHRISTIAN BET 2, Adminiftratot, •
( Philadelphia, decemher 3,
Coffee.
25 Tierces Coffee,
tor salt by
J/IMES TARD,
dec 3 u ainut-flreet Whatf.
N ~W~A N~T £~D,
A 7'n is . l , gootl JCCOU "taDt and un-
J-*- derltands Bookkeeping, none need a UD ' v
who cannot produce good
Enquire of'the P, inter hereof. nC " altloD, ~
dc '
FOR S J LE,
And immediate pofeffion riven
A CON VRNIENT three Story Bnck lo A
-L*. ' uzza and Kitchen, in a pleasant 1, dS
pan of the City-FnquS 0 f ffSur
d«»FOR SALE. u
By George Plumsted, u
No. 166,Soutm Front STant. 1
->SO whole 1 irrce. < R j c Et
100 half do. )
35 Box,» white Havasna Sugars, entitled to
drawback
a,OOO pieces Kankeene, do. do. *
Anchora weighing 17cwt. and »6cwt. pn
160 boxes containing tea fetta ot China cit
31 boxes of bl»e and white table fetta of do. thi
ALSO, co
Boies containing breaktafl, coffee and even
ing cups and saucers ; tea pots, cream pots, fu- of
gar dimes, pint bowls, custard cups, flat and be
soup plates and dishes.
You tig Hyson Tea tK
Fans
CaHia.
Nov. 13 3tawaw u
mfiCE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of she late William Cliftom,
deceased.and who have not alrcadv produeed their
their accounts, &?e requeued to fend them to the p
subscriber at no 17a, north Second street.
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'x
Philadelphia, nov. 19, m&th4W
Efhraim Clark, I
CLOCK tf WAtCH MAKER, «<
Corner of Front and Market streets, Philadelphia,
HAS JUST RECEIVED, h;
Yy V tfie different arrivals, a large supply of Clock a
Jj and Watch makers and Silver Smi'hs Tool*, N
files ani materials,
CON S tST INC OF
Rowling Mills, Urge and small Bench and Hand |
Vices, Turftbenches, Plyern, Sliding Tongs, Bra- It
ces and Bitts, Grooving tools, Saws,.Scratch brash- |
e?, Blow pipes, Screw and Otayv plates,large and j
small Hammets, Clock dials, cast hraf. Bells, for- j C
ged w-.rk and pinions, KTiery, Rotten (tone, Pu
mice Hone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, Steel and C
Iron wire, (beet Brai«, main springs ani glades R
gold, g'lt, and ftrel chains,feals an.l keys, &c. &c. P
cO-ClocksandWatches carefully repaired
710 V. 11
Charles Campbell, £
w AT C H-M A K E R. £
HAS removed to the Shop formerly occupied -j
by Mr. John Wood, Np. SJ. coiner of ,
Front and Chefnut-ftreets ; wbere he will thank- t
fuJiv receive and execute orders with neatness
and dispatch F
HI HAS CONSTANTLY ON HAND,
A Neat and Large AfTortment of
Clocks & Watches.
WAN TED,
A JOURNEYMAN;
jtLSO, ore or two Apprentices of refpedti. J
ble parents.
FOR SALE, c
A large quantity of Watch GlafTes
JVbokfah and Retail.
nov 14 3 awtf
Dancing School.
_ _ -r'LI.l AM M'OCUGALL presents his res-
V'V peiSful compliments to the public : takes
tbe liberty of informing tbcm, that at the requefl
of many of his former employers he will open
his SCHOOI, at hi' Ball Room, in Fourth, bet
ween Chefnut and Wal»ut streets, on the firft Mon
day of December— Foe Young Ladies at ten
~'clock in the morning—and for Gentlemen, at
tVe evenings of Mondays, Wednesdays and J
Fridays. (
1 „o foim 1
TIOV.
N O T I C E, !
ALL Persons having claims upon the Eflate
o'f James Thorhurn, Stonecutter, deceaf
cd, are desired to present them for payment
and those indebted to pay their rcfpeiftive ba
lances to !
Benjamin IV. Morris, admmtjlratar.
nov 14 3 aw 3 w
Bank of the United States ,
November 19,
NOTICE,
STOCKHOLDERS of the Bank of the 1
X United States are informed,that accordingto
the Statute of Incorporation, a GeneralEle&ion for
twenty-five Dire&ors will be held at the Bank of
the United States, in the City of Philadelphia, on
Monday, the 7th of January neit, at ioo'clockm
the forenoon. , ...
And pursuant to the eleventh feition of the bye
laws, the Stockholders of the laid Bank are also
notified to assemble in general meeting, at the
fame place, on I'uefday, the 6th of January next,
at 6 o'clock in ihe evening.
G. Simpson, Cashitr.
Second Fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of the Dire&ers in
office, cxclufive of the President, lhall be eligible
Jor the next ensuing year, but the Dire&or who
-fr.all be President at the time oi an eleSion, may
always be re.-leited.
novensber 16
WILLIAM M'DOUG ALL,
AT HIS STORE,
No. 134. Market Street,
T_TAS JUST OI'ENED, in addition,to his for-
JLJ. mer stock, a very extensive adortment of
Men's, Women's, and Children's Hats, and all
kinds of Stockings—particularly a quantity of A
berdeen knit Hose, suitable for the present season.
nov, 23 co ' m
Notice is hereby Given,
TH/VT application will bemadest theTrea
fury of the United States for the renewal
of the following certificates of Six per Cents,
funded debt—standing in the name of Robert
Wilson of Calcutta in Bengal, Snrgeon in the
fcrvice of the honorable United Company of
merchants of England trading" the East-In
dies, which were loft from on board the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kidd, fram Falinouth to New
York. Dolls. Cts.
No 10,444, Peg. office T4OI Dec.
1793, one certificate for 173 i 33
No 10,478, Re* office 17th Dee.
1793, one certificate for * ifs9 so
Ellijion (5* John Perot.
nov n eod6w
Whereas the certificate of two
shares of the Bank of the United States in the
name of Samuel Amorj, of London, banker,
No-3ißi,iffued in lieu of 11593, 11594, were
forwarded from London by the BritiFh packet
Counted, of Leicester, rapt. Dodd, bound for
New-Y<*k, which packet was captured by the
French, and'the fa>R certificate loft ; and for the
renewal of which, application is made at said
Bank, and all persons concerned are desired to
take notice. CLEMENT DIDDLE.
Phjl*. Oft. at, *798. eo6w
John shieldSa
BROKER.,
tmbraeej this ifi'ortJnitj to present his thanks j
to his fello-wciiizens for their pa ft favors
and arquaint? them that he is return' it from 1
Chefmit HiU, to his former reftttencr, the 1
Houje A«. ti CW'niit between Front Iyp
i and Serond-ftreet,
WHERE he holds hirafelf ready to execute I
their commands in every branch ot his I
profefßiin, tnjfting that from » refideßce in this I «
city of 3 5 years he has it in his power to render I
them effer.tial ferviee, a (Turing them that his I
commiflion lhall be is lew as any in I ow yV
Lotts, Lands, Houses, Vessels, Certificates I
- of every description and B:1U of Exchange, 1 <■
J bought and fold, thedocketts carefully exam c
ined and clear titles made upon the Ihorteft no- I
tice, by the public's humble fervatit, I
' ' John Shields. £
Good negotiable Note* difconnted I
M a low premium. I R,
november 7 Jawtt Ip
* To be Sold, |j e
ir OR EXCHANGED, v
£ For property in the Citv, or within Thirty I
miles of it, I j
A Valuable Plantation, I s.
~ TN Tufcorora Valley, Mifflin county, containing I 1
A ab»ut three hundred acres, the whole capable I
of cultivation. At present there is about 50 *cres I
a cleared, 10 of which is a rich bottom of Meadow I
Ground, enriched by a never failing stream, that I 3*
has fall enough for all the purposes of I
k a Country Mill. For further information apply at I j*'
*> No. 68, Market flreet. I
no*-mber 10 I
d 'Just Imported, I a
1 • Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof, I
1- | with their carriages complete— 3, 4, 6 and 9 I
id pounders.
r- Carronadcs, Woolwljh proof, with carriages, See. I -
i- complete— I», 18 aRd 14pounders,
d Cannon powder in kegs of 15 lb«s. each I p
:s Round, double headed, and cannift»r (hot
c. Patent ftieathing copper, bright, aflortcd 18,10, I
J 41, 14, 16 and 18 or per square foot, fkeets 48 I
by 14 inches, suitable for vessels from too to I
Copper nails, bolii allfl spikes
Boarding Pikes, 1
, Common cutlalfc*
, Gunners llores of all kinds
j Tin-plates No I—l-3 cross boxes
Vattnt shot in calks of jewt. each
k" London porter and *»rown (taut, in calks *f 7 doz. 1
' s bottled.
Earthen ware in c.ates, asserted
For Sale by
3JMON WALKER,
Pine near sth street. I
O&ober 19. eo.tf. I
FOR SALE.
1. Rice, in whole and half Tierces. I
TeneTwe" 4 } W,NES '
Caro'inaaud Georgia Indigo.
. s AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins.
Apply to I
N. J. Frazicr, j
No. 95, So. Front Street* I J
november 13 3 taw 3 w 1
tf-
« Tea Warehouse,
:b No rjl, South Side of Mariet-Zlreet, between I
!t " Thiid and Fourth-Jlreets.
£ SARAH EATON, ,
at TJ ESPECTTCELLV-faformj her friends and the I
id IV. public, that {he has removed from no 39, I ]
south Front street, t« Market street, where her I
friends and the public mar depend on being sup- I ]
~ plied with ail kinds of TEAS of the firft qualities I <
at moderate prices,
te n«v. 17 fe-w.fr.6t I
t EDUCATION. ||
Samuel Moon, jun'rs School, ,
IN CHURCH ALLEY, j |
TS open again, for inflrufling Girls in Reading. I '
,c A Writing, Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography,! ]
including the Element* of Geometry, and the use I
of the Globes.—From-the great encouragement he 1 !
has hitherto received, he refpedtfully solicits a con- |
j, e tinuance of the favours of his Friends and the I
;t0 Public. I ]
for c 3» An Evening School,
For BOY S— Kept at the fame place I
• n 11 mo 6th,'9B iaW4w I ;
, ye Imported
j[° In the last arrivals from Bremen, I
it, Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT RE A SON ABLE FRICES AND ON A LIBIRAt I
CREDIT, BY
PRATT V KINTZING,
I * n N0,95, North Water street. I
b h '* 215 bales & boies Ticklenburghs,
,ay . hempen linens and oznabrigs from 1/5 to 1
if per ell
L 7° d°. bleached and brown hessians
~ 40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bag»
20 do. strong do. do. for cotton do.
or j 30 chests platillas a do. sealing-wax
3 do. dowlas 3 packages oil-cloth
. 30 ds. creas ala Morlaix 4 do. fail -twine
. li do. eftopaill»s I do. watches
0 ' Ij do. Bielefield linen 14 pipes Port wine
" ... 90 do. patterbornes 91 cases claret
45 do Brittanias 130 do. fine long corked
I do. Holhnd canvass claret
rea- 1 do. Russia do. 1600 bufliels fine &!t
wal 3 do. Ruflia (hectings 40 caiksofroll brimstone
nt», 1 do. ravens duck aoo calks of naval Sores.
Bert % do. Ruflia drillens jo logs-prime mahogany
the I do. brown holiand 4 hhds. coffee mills
rof * do. Silesia rouans ft bundles German steel
-In- I d&.Wahrendrop linen 10 chefti of slates and
VJ |. 1 do. Caraudoles pencils
ew . I do. Flemilh linens A packageof flcates
t< I do. cambricks and A do. wqolen caps, &c.
lawns 4 chests of Nurenberg
I do diaper toys
I» do. stripes 40 kcj, of yellow ochre
18 do. checks 3 khds. Glee
1 do. fiamiis g barrel, of Lentilies
I do. Arabia stripe 5 chests of prime red
■v ' do. bunting for colors crust Holland cheefc
I packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
WO kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
the * do. Turkey yarn 400 fides of upper and
ker, 6 hale" empty bags foal leather
rere 1 chest hairribliand 300 boxes window glafi
:ket ; 3 boiet tapes, affortcd 800 Demijohns
for 1 bobbin, aflbrted jo boxes glmft tumblers
,^ e I box threads & tapes assorted
t(le I do. fine hl»e liftados » lihds. pumice stone
said J chests men's flippers 1 box of mill saws
j fu Jdo bed ticks I calk of cutlery
» cads hog's bridles A quantity of flone jugs
6 chests writiag paper and pickling pots
' * quill l fsw ihips anchors, <tc.
November 1* * tsJtf tf
Samuel Potter, William Page and
Thomas Price, /i,,
No. 31, CHESNUT STRftT,
Are now opening a very exlenjtve njfortmen oj
DRT GOU D S,
Suitable to the present season.
Which they have just received per Ge
. 1 Ships Factor, Boyne, Otfego
(via New York) from LONDON,
I Alio, per lh,p William Penn & Amiable from
. I London, and (hips Sally afid Thomas from
J Liverpool,
5 I Which they wiH fell on very low terms for ,
5 I cash or approved notes, viz. , Pai
, I Common and fuperfine 7 8 fancy and chinz cal- t[)( .
. I cloths licoes u- n ,,
. I Plain 8c fancy coatings 7 8 common and chintz
I Plain and tiripad cafli- furnitures . I
m( . res \ very large quantify of j
1 I Swanfilowns dirtzct .
I Rose and duffill blanketsiPuri le and chintz ftawls
I Red and yellow flannels Lint-n and lawn pocket
I Fine Welch flannels ! 1 andkerchiels
I Carpets and carpeting (Camels' hair shawls
I Jeannetts & tabby cord- ki very large assortment 0
I Velveteens & velveretts j ribbonds .
>f I Thickfetts ;Briti£hplain checked,ftri
' I Callimancoes, durants & pedand tam.iour d mul
jeans l in » of »" dcfcnptions
I Silk, cotton, and worfteJ ..olorad bordered lhawls,
I hose a great variety
I Cotton, callicoe, & twiH 5-4 aisd 6-4 conjeverams
>s I checks and bett.llees
w I OimitVs India book&jaconet muf
[t I 3-4 and 7-8 dowlafs lins
,r I Damalh table linen Laces and edgings
„ I 4-4 and 6-4 (heelings Black and patent lace
I Irilh linens Lace veils and figured
I Ginghams cloaks
_ I Bandannoes Pulongs and fattins
I A very large quantity of Pcrfians and forfanets
t f I 6ilk modes
9 I And a variety of other articles.
I Nov. 1 tn.th fa.lm B:
c - .IMP O R i ED, I
I From Hamburgh, Bremen, and London,
ANO roK SALE >Y THt IDSICSIHSS,
I An alfortment of German Linens, {r '
[0 I coNtisriNO or
Ticklenbutgs Ir
OCnaburgs Ir
I Wefcr linen gf
Checks and stripes
I Bielefeld linen
Brown filefias q
I Silesia lawns q
z. I Eiamois, &cs See.
150 Boxes of Claret. a
I 5 Boxes of hollow glass wart In
I* calks of Ruflia briflles Li
ALSO ON HAND, H
i Box of Irilh Linens.
| I rrunk fiik goods '
I I Box of Oingham,
And a complete assortment of
English Buttons. t
Erich is? Lewis Bollman, ~
No. Too, Spruce street.
I noven beri 9 eoiot
j ■ 1 1 a«
Smith Sc Rodman, E
No. 49, South Front street,
J Have just received per the William Penn, and
I Jausr, from London, Dianaam/Thoma* "
I from LirEkpoot, *nd Kingston,
from Hull, "1
A LARGE a GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF 1
DRYGOODS, I
among which a*»
I Plalh, twill'd and striped Crapes
be T Coatings TTaTiwS ftrifrra WTT3B»re« 71
!9' I Fine white and red Wellh Worfted,Yarn (3 Cotton ' r
>er I Flannels Hose d
'.P- I Do. yellow and scarlet do. Men and Boys Woollen
' es I Superfine and low price. l M'trirt k-e
---5-4, 6-4, 7-4, cloth, of 7"® each d ,nfl> Dow * V
all colors laf L s , w
Plains and Halfthicks 3" 4 bro-n f,,fh L,nen
Forest and Hunter Cloths 9 f„ wh '" " n d^ roW ° lr * "
Green and Red Drapery F | aX( . n & T^w Ozna- _
] Baize , )Urßh in bj]e ,
Do. J-4, 6-4, and Dtogheda & Irilh Silefias
I Red & green B,eking do. 8 an d yaid-wide Irilh
ng. j Swanfiowns WToilanett.' Linens
hy I Rose, Point and DulHll Primed Callicoes&Chin. r
use I Blankets tzes
he I Superfine London Cafii- Printed Linen and bor c
5n- I meres of the newest and der'd Handkerchiefs s e
the I most falhionable colors Cottonic Cillicoe Checks
I Low priced Yorklhire do. Thread Edging, & Lace-
Plain and striped Calli- Mrn '* BeavcrGloves
I mancoes p,ns In frr "" cafc4
:e I Joan Spinnings &Durant, "° lta " d T "P e »" Bobbin.
Rattinetts & Shalloons Th.ckfcw s nd Corduroys
N».« k C.mblet.. (.■SrSVSSV''
I With a variety of other Articles on hand, fo r 1
sale on the most reasonable terms for calh
I or the usual credit. 1
L Nnv tn.th&fa.tf i
J°hn J- Parry,
is,| CLOCK & WATCHMAICER,
to HAS a s ain «P en ed at his usual Stand, A T o. 38,
South Secondftreet—where he has for Sale,
Excellent Gold & Silver Watches, '
1 # and anw
Eight Day Cclocks,
;0. I Which will be warranted to give fatisjkaian.
An assortment of 1
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
All kinds of Clock and IVatch work done with
particular attention as heretofore.
gr An Appren'ice wanted.
ked november ij m.wllSf.iw.
NOTICE "—"
one Owners of Carriages, and
res. Retailers of Wine Shuts.
any TN consequence of the late Epidemic in this
A City, numbers have negle&ed to enter their
leel Carnages, ilfo the retailers of Wine and Spi
and fits to call and take out their Licences. The
hcaJth of the City returning,.the Office « re
moved from Germantown to its former place,
Ne- v 49 North Third-street, where those who
'"g have neg.efled must call and pay the duty on
hre T^' r t - arr ' l ß e, ». ind retailers take out theii
Licences—Their ready compliance will prevent
, s incurring the pwialty of rhe Law.
red JAMES ASH, Collector
eef« of the if Divifon of lft Survey
rl «y of thedifiriSofPennfylvani 'a.
Philadelphia, Office of Infpe£lien )
and No. 49, North Third-llrcet. {
la* os£: The STAMP PkESS " kept st ,V "
. .9 mw&f.,w
The time of an AQive
Se BLACK BOY,
•ITTHO is about Citeen year, old, and has five
V «? fcrve . to be disposed of. He is
,ugs *ell acquainted with the bufincf, of a farm, and
handy at cooking or waitirg in the heufe. F.n
«c. quire at theeffice of thii Gazette.
:f ncr.
1 eoiw
Samuel b 5 Miers Filher,
Nn. 97, Dock-Streit.
Have received per the Mo-wing Star, from
Tencriffe,
Good Cargo Wine,
In Pipes, Hojftieads and Qutrter Casks.
Per the Pallas, froth Hamburgh,
" German Oznabrigs ScTicklenburgs.
And by the late arrivals ft om London,
Livernonl, Bristol, Hull and lJuhltn,
n ,1 GiMF.RAL ASSORTMENT Of
WOOLEN GOODS,
rItINCIFALLT ON CONSICNMINT.
r Which they are desirous of felling by the
Package, in which are separately made up
the following articles|on low terms :
Rase Blankets, 6 4, to 10-4
jljt j point blankets
r Mottled and green Rugs 6-4 to .1-4 _J
Mixt and drab Forreft cloths, lorted
1, Fearnoughts
et Blue Plains , A
Blue, mixt and drab plaint, lorted prices J.
Mixt, tvrill'd, striped and blue coatings, do fin
of Blue, mixt and brown kersey duffals, sorted ha
colors and prices th<
i- Mill'd drab Broadcloths, sorted price*
f- Blue Broadcloths, do
Low priced Broadcloths, colors neatly Ported
'*> Swanl'down, striped and printed Kerfymeres
Mixed and foned colored Kerseymeres
1,3 Meat super and fuperfine cloths, Elastics and
BevereKs .
ll " White, yellow andredFlannels, sorted prices
Green and white Baize
Yarn Hole and Caps
d Coarse and fine Hats, in cases of 6 dozen each
C a® pieces fuperfine wide Black RufleJs
Joans Spinning and Camblets
With an Invoice of common and fine drawn
NAILS, fiatt and lharp points, well afibrted
!They have al/o for Sale,
Britifli Oznabrigs"}
Ravens Duck. >' IN BALES.
n Ruflla Sheetinga J
' Saxon and Bohemia iJowlas —in Cherts
Brown quadruple Sitefias and white Platillas, do
® Irllh Linens, in Boxes p
Irilh Oowlas, white and brown
Irilh Sheetings, do
Irittl Sacking
Shot, aiTorted. Red and White Lead and Span-
I ifl) Brown c( .
T Crawley Millington Steel
Queens ware, in Crates
Glass ware, in Crates and hoglheads
Newcastle Grindstones. Boxes tin plates
A few pipes London market Teneriffe Wise <
India RomaH Hdkfs.} T .
Long Cloths f IN BALES,
Humhums J
Womans (hoes, iu barrels
Spermaceti Candles, in boxes.
11 mo 17 3»w6w
ALL PERSONS, " 1
HAVING demands agamft the Estate of P
Henry Schafffr, deceased, lateofthe .
City of Philadelphia, Malller and Shopkeeper
are requested to jurnifh their accounts properly
authenticated and all persons indebted to said
Eft ate are desired to make speedy payment to
CASPAR IV. HAINES, > . ■a r „ tnrs „
, FREDERICK GAUL,\ admwJl
"th mo. 13 f h
JAMES & RICHARD SMITH, r a
HAVE this day returned from the country ta
their STORE, No. 54, South-Front-street,
where they hsve for sale, as usual, a large and ge
neral aflbrcment of European and East-India
DRT GOODS ,•
(on from the ( differe»t veflelt, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull. 1
len Their Cuftomtrs by applying will find almost
1 every article generally imported, and at as low
>w- prices for ca(h or credit,as they can be had else- -
where. ,
n N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a j
Jr* consignment, to be fold by the cafe only. 1
Philadelphia, Nov. a, 1798. dtf r
na- _ t
fias Millenery Room, j
No. 136, Mar let Street.
lin. ' I 'HREE orfour young women who are well ac
1. quainred with rhe Millenery bulinefs, and
>er can bring good recommendations may be eroploy
f« * ed tj applying as above to
■ ck ' D. CHRYSTAL. (
,Cc " nov. «6 $
— |
iin» Engliih wrought Nails.
■oyt 0 1
ns Imported in the ships Molly and D.ana, from
tOfl- LIVERPOOL.
400 Casks of Nails,
fo r /"Consisting of 6d, Bd, iod, ud, and
h v-< aod, flat points fhitable for the southern
market—6d, Bd, i«d f ud, andiod, finedrawn
tf Sharps—also s, 3, 4, and 6 ciouts—fprigs—
luck* —liuppcr nail? —fhcathmg nails,
FOR ULt ST,
t, Robert Deni/on, junr.
jg, 1«7 Market-street.
FOR SALE,
CS he EXCHANGED for property within thirty
' mj.es of the city, or to let on ground-rent forever
Several valuable building Lots,
i on , In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Diddle, ne. 147, Chefnut
ftreet.
■eys. Nov. it *
uith - . _
For Sale,at the Stores oftheSub
fcribert, on Walnut street
195 callcs of nails aiTorted
»o bales »f fail canvass, from No. I to 8
[ 5 3 calks yellow ochre
'5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
London particular ) ~ , .
India market 5 Madeira Wines
c ■ Teneriße do. in hogfheadsand pip
S? " Old Port do. in hhds.
. re _ Empty Claret bottle*
ace ' Ca^es o Q®jnghaiDs, Dimities, Muflinets &e.
who aflbrted tor the Well-India market
,0 > and 9 inch eablfsand 10 coils oi cordage
Writing fiates, ii.k flands and presses
11 10 purcheonb Jamaica rum
' cnt I bale teaming twine
160 bundles Iheatuing paper'
rv . r Nici/M (3* Griffith.
Z1 tuW
Ironmongery, Cutlery, &c.
,1 *" THE SUBSCRIBERS
TNTENDINC to decline chey- ptefent BnCaefs,
„ oner for file, at reduced prices, a handsome
alTortment ol Irormongery, Cutlery, &c. in lots
to suit the purchasers.
five John Green (s* Co.
is No. 16, Second flreet.
and c 3* Ironuiongers
En- Will find the Goods not unvrorty fkeir
attention.
w
Imported,
In the Ships Aftive and Liberty,
from Hsmburch.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrijs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Heflian Rolls
Brown Ruflia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks,
For Sale by
GEORGE PEN NOCK.
no. 103 Market-flreet .
nov ao
NOTICE.
ALL Perrons indebted to the Estate of Wil.'
liam Beauchamp, (ately deceased, arc <Je
fired to make immediate payment and those who
I have any clairr* against said Estate to produce
thair accounts properly attested to
Sam!. Price, executor.
, nov ao dim
! ~ BEEF,
j OF THS FIRST QUALITY,
And fit for India voyages—For Salt By
, WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, High Street,
nov. 23 dtf
h
FOR KALE,
By the Subscriber,
II Belfaft Canvass, No. 1, toy,
On moderate terms far Cash or a short credit,
James Lyle,
South Seventh flreet, near Chefnut.
nov 16 5
t «——w—»■ ■■■ 1 1 1 11 ■ . li-■ ■ 1 .. .
Forty Dollars Reward.
0 DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp Wejl Schuylkill, viz.
Odlober 19.
("i EORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, j
V_T feft 6 inches in height, dark hair and
complexion, born in HsHahd, noTritle,
broken Erglifh and very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
< November (~ John Murphy, 27 years of
a g e > 5 f eet 7 1 inches in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dublin, by trade a Hnzier.
Jacob iden, 34 years of age, j feet 6 inches
high, grpy eyes, sandy hair, i'rcfh complexion,
born in New-England, state of Connecticut, a
repeated deserter, by trade a Blacksmith.
November 7. William Collins, joyeais of
age, 5 feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frefh com
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland* county of
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
fr some time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
1 to hear bimfelf Sing.
Ij All the above deserters are very much addict
ed to liquor, and will take other peopled pro
perty if in their poweT, are artificially marked
•1. on their backs, had on, when they went away,
th«ir regimental clothing. Whosoever appre
— hends said deserters, lhali receive forty dollai*
reward, or tea dollars for each, with all reafoo
' able expences, by applying to me as above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
" e J id regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov 10 $
Ti RJULASX
n- A QUANTITY to brdifnofed of, if applied for
XIl immediately, on board (he Ship Louifj, lyinj
Ma. HUMPHREY'S Snip Yatd.
, w novemberio. }
"e-
ALL PERSONS having any legal demands i
gainfl the estate of William Pirlis, deceased,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
tf requefied to furnifh their account* properly.au
— theatitated, and all perlons indebted to IM estate
are r.'qjefled to make payment to the fubferiber id
Philadelphia.
I.EVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
lc _ Oi2obcr3t(l, 1798.
nd
>y- DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.TO WIT:
BE IT REMEMBERED.
THAT on the twelfth day
Sj of Attguft, in the twenty-third year of
~the Independence of the United Ststes of
America, Benjamin Smith Barton, ef the laid dif
tridl, hath deposited in this office the title of a
book the right whereof he claims at author in the
" words following to wit :
" New Views of the Origin of the Trrbesar'i
" Nations of America—By Vsnjamin Smith Baf
nd " ton, M. D.Correspondent Member of the Socie
;rn " ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member 0
wn " the American Philosophical Society, Fellow m
1 •' the ApieriCan Academy ot Arts and Science' 0
" Boflon, Correfpond'dg Member of the Mail l '
» ohufetts Hißorical Society, and ProfefTor ot
" Materia M»dica, Natural Hifloryand Botany
" in the University of Pennsylvania."
* In conformity to the afl of the Congref- of t.<
United States, imitled " An *& for th« encourage
ment of learning by securing the copies of maps,
rty charts,and books, to the authors proprietor,
fcr of such copies during; the times ther*:n mention# J
fg SAMUEL CALDWELL, Cicrk, Dill-os rew>
' November i, 1798<
A Young Man,
wri es a good hand, nnderflao»
~ W accounts and ean be well recommend,
b- wants a Situation as Clerk or Affiilant in -
Wholesale Store, or Conuti'\g-houfe. App J
Cation to he made »t this Office.
nov 14 •
» A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
TOHN A. SHAnFFER. ofrhiladelphia, whot"
J for a few years pad been in the f° u ''' c ' n
has had the effrontery to draw fejeral B.lh «
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. oecr ■
&c. State, and myielf.and by that meaa»nascetr*|*
a number of persons of their
age them by an exhibitiorrof letters and paps
E names affiled of diver, publ.C charaae.s andJ-J
table merchants highly
Shaeffer ;to one of theft papers I find m y[
fubfcribsd.hut I do not know the mjH i
villainous forgeries! To prevent furt ,u
I hareto requeftthe pxintcrs of Newfp p • .
rf , United States to publish this f«L,
Trenton,
|efs Oftoket 24, >
3me ' ~~~~~~
,0 " To be Let,
AND possessionf 7
OH THI 14TH
THE CITY TAVERN,
, • Now in of C
be)r Apply at this oftce.
/ covambcr ij