©a?ette*'!K ISntttU <§>tateo, Advertiser.
By John Ward Fenno, N c - 119 Che [nut Street.
fcuMDFj '95 2, 3
cy The price of this Gazette is j
Eight dollars per annum to Subfcrt- £
birs reftding in the at, of PMadel- |-j
pbia. ' All others pay one dollar ad-
ditional, far endofmg and cUre&ng; m
and unlefsfvneperfon in this citywiU Chc(r
become answerable fur the fubfcrip
tion,'it mu/t be paid Six Months tn
advance . ~o
" _ ' ■ 1 .
For Sale, a
* tpi«. THE SHI? 60
, PACKET,
Hulings Cowp»«THW*ir, Miller, Ph
_ barrels. a strong
BUR I n a ™ ici .. ol: -.modationsforpsflcn^r»,
Vsh!p —ha» exc«lle ( bhe „ l a)r .
wharf. For further particular en- j
Ifaae Harvey, jun, or
Smith & Ridgway. bH
»ovemberl6 J ,
v- Sa 1 fh.p, if not fold on. or Wore the sth
l "° fc ' s.,«s a 1
Isaac Harvey, >«• as ?.
es to
dre. %. ■ ing I
FOR SALE, mei
proc
ship anct
PERSEVERANCE,
>•»« Hfillianfon, majlur. Torn
Tuft arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi- of e
Hdelnhla < f live Oak and Cedar, copper lheath- ful ,
ed in London, burthen 3"^'^°| 1
fiU ns and may be prepared for sea iu a tew aay , n
* IVith her Cargo,
Now on Board,
CONSISTING OF
ui Hoglheadi and 50 barrels Sugar
*60,000 Weight of prime Cc*e in hhds. bb
and bags (5
31 Puncheons of Jamaica Rum.
ALSO, to 1
Williamson, Majter.
yßOty^^^orann go, with her cargo, confining of
43 hogsheads of Sugar, H
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
likewise,
THE BRIG t6 j,
*|SpL. amiable matilda,
MOUNTING I* Guns, burthen <
two thousand two huudred barrels of
Flour, ahd in aomplcat order.—Apply to ®
Thomas b 1 John Ketland. -3
nov-niticr 13 $ bee
For Sale.
THjBH HE SußsentaSß. intending <0 decline the
DK.UG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of 0
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, && I 2
The (hop is tlegant, commodious, and fullici- j
cntly known for the exteiifive bufmefs t one in the
•wholesale an J . retail line ; the situation nquai to
any in the city, being at the cuiner of Walnut and
Seeond Orcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will heft suit the purchaser. (
Tha terms may be known, byapplyirg to
JAMES MOORE, JON.
IVLo has For Sale, _
d tor the river tradw
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
(lout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
good order. ™
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber bufmefs.
rf«J* All pel sons indebted to the late firm M
GoMtfooait 13" Baldwin, IV. B. GUJtbivait, Gola
ibuait 13" A&ore, or the fubferiber, are earnestly
rcnuefted t« make fperdy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jhn.
august 3 $
"boston beef,
200 Barrels in Shipping Order. j
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKTRIN,
No. 96, Aorth Froni-Jtreet.
Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD srauT r* SSEL >
abo «t 300 Tons burthen, f
V ALSO FOR SALE, ,
A 0 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
nov 11 m 4t 1
FOR WILMINGTON,
N*o rth-Carolina,
Vw- THE SHIP
COMMERCE, ,
Captain Wood,
is)'« '.dUl W ILL take in freight 011 very mo-
terms, and fail about the
25th ioftart. Apply to the Captain on board at
l-atiitct'a wharf, or
Willings & Francis,
Penn Street,
nevember 16 5
FOR SALE,
<~k—i Tie fajl failing Schooner
® THREE SISTERS,
Y is Now ready to take a cargo on
t>oar«i, iuppofipd will carry 600 o»* 650 barrels.
ALSO, A SMALL INVOICE
JAVA COFFEE,
Suljcc! lo drawbacl,
Enquire of
JEriU HOLUNOSV.OH.TH tr* Co.
A>, 47, PennSt r ret
december li Utl
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER '9> >798.
I For Neiv York & Bojlon.
fr The new aticl faft failing Sloop
James Bkachett, majlcr.
WILL la I with allconvenieutfpeed—For Ireigh 1 Nei
or paflage apply to the n:a.ler on board, lying at
Chefnut-ftrert Wharf. y ow
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
On board said Sloop,
30 febls. of cod-oil, fined quality
. , so do. of herring and fliad -A
Few half do. mackrael NT*
A small quantity of faioaked herring
60 hbls. of w inter pear*
500® bunches of onions .
' 4000 lbs. of excellent cheefr;, u'rr'
Philadelphia, d c. 11 le°^3t
r
Ship Broker's Office, M
And Commi/JioH Store,
No. 1:9, South front Strf ft,
Next do3r to she Cuftor.4 Houfi. J
npHE Siibfcriber, encouraged oy the advice of j
X his friends, ofi'ers his fcrvice to the public J ( j (
as at Ship and insurance Broker. He propel- j
es to buy and fell veflels and every thing relat
" ing thereto —allift mafltrs of veflels and o'.bf-rs j
in eutering and clearing at the Cuftoiu-Huu/e, I
procuring and ihipping freight, fettling Inlur- I
ance ar.d all other mercantile accounts, and J
have on hand the tfeceffary Blank» and Stamps.
' Papers in foreign languages translated, and in- f 1
formation given in general mercantile matters. J belt
—From aknowiadge gained by long experience ] hun
of every branch of bufmefs he hopes to be ule- J ]
f u l to those who pltafe to favor him with their to
6 commands. SAMUEL EMERY.
*» novem'eer 19 §
For SALE or CHARTER,
THE SHIP
lis MOLLY,
Burthen 4100 baireli of Flour, 1
Philadelphia built, well found j
fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in a few daye—(he is pierced J
18 guns, and mount 611 new lix pounders, with I |
small arms in proportion. I
r. r- -j. THE SHIP
°l DIANA,'
Burthen 1,100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelpfca built of live oak J ,
cadar, it pierced for four- I
teen guns, end mounts ten new four pounders, j
with small arms in proportion.
ten fcrfSk. THE BIUG i
of Jgm, AMAZON, li
y Burthen i.joo birrels of Flour, 1
, * 7T l an * fc —•New-Lngland built, has lately [ 11
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea I vie
in a few days. j S P
For teims-apply to
rhc NiCKL IN & U RIFFITH.
the Who have for Sale
on boardJhnJry vejjc's at Marcus-Hooh,
' " j 1,000 bushels of Liverpool fine fait
' c '" 1,100 bushels of coils
t,le 186 crates of tfueens waie affbrte'd 1
to 7 tiercel of bottled porter
l | 10 barrels of eoleothard pa'mt j
' 4 do. of purple brown do. 1
' a quantity of yellow ocre in calks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 hfcrrtls mineral black 'lo.
15 barrels Spanidi brown do. I Si
91 boxes white > HAVANA SUGARS P
Y 89 do. brown }
3 barrels New Orleans indigo I
en, 4 puncheons Jamaica spirits I
20 bales of fail sanvafs
gin 379 fheetsof copper, alTerted from 48 by 24 !
to 60 by 48 inches
,:] s Two tubs raised {till bottoms assorted
36 fix pound guns.4s feet, B]cwt each
**■ !14 do. 4 feet, j-ewt and 4lbs each I
50 barrels of gun powder
" 6 cases Manchester cotton cheeks
3 trunks muslins and Ihawlt
N 14 cases mnflinets, dimities and ginghams
r *8 cherts coloured nankeens, muflinets, &c.
6 bales of white and coloured caflimeres
1 bate of course woollens
English nails afTorted.
Oflober*?. fri.&fat. tf.
*• AUGUSTUS FRICKE,
Woollen Draper & Men's Mercer
No. 7, (out h "Thirdfir ret,
l, HAS RECEIVED,
hen. r-rthe Ua arrival from Europe, a large assort
ment of the fashionable Goods in hi % line.
And hat. confiantly for sale a general ajftrt-
J- ment of
First rate London fuperfint Broad
Cloths
Caflimeres
Veil Patterns of all kinds
•L' And every other article in the gentleman's line
by wholesale and retail.
December ro dt^
['Z R. TAYLOR,
irdat MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. 96, NORTH SIXTH-ITRIET,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Public that
he continues to tsach Ladies the Piano
* Forte as usual.
Nov. 6. tuthsa
WAN TE~D.~
Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly
Lady, in a refpe<Sfab!e private family, where
S there are no children. Enquire at this office.
dec 4 dim
;o on NO TIC E.
Is- A LL perfont indebted to the eftatc of Jambs
LjL Thompsoh, of the Indian Queen, fourth
tj flreet docealed. are def red to mike payment to
*"> the fubferiers—and these who have any demands
againii tlyfaidefta*e,arc requested to fend in their
Recounts d'.ily attelled for fctilement, to
MARGARi. I' THOMPSON."? Adminiilrairix.
\trrrt JOHN TI'.OMPSON, J /»dtninirrrat'T.
Nov. t? dim
Jamaica Rum.
Con
THE CARGO,
Of the (hip CHARLES, Captain Salter, by tl
Fr>m the North fide of Jamaica,
Near 200 hhds. of fine high proof •*
JAMAICA RUM,
Now Landing a: South ttrect Wharf. Whic
PETER BLIGHT. rc
r no
r-£"2"V THE H,?
CHARLES,
Captain SalteS,
Coppered, mount rwelve 6 pounders and thir'y- n
five men—returns immeiately to Jamaica, for ,
PalTiije apply as above. a c
dec 17 djm N
For FREIGHT or CHARTER,
to any part of EUROPE, d £
. Tlie Swedish Snow
MmA maria,
Hans Olof Kcck, commander. E!
A remarkally good vessel, about 110 ton\ bur
then. A freight to Cadiz, or any part of the
Mediterranean would be preferred. Enquire of the <y u t
Captain on beard at Vine-Street Wharf- J J
dee 17 §
FOR BREMEN, M l u(
t <g . v THS BRIG V
m SP ECU LAI lON, Ri ®;
Arind Wietino,Mast*r, 400.
NOW laying at Henry Pratt's wharf, the firll
below Race (Irect—(he is a BrciMn bottom; two £
hundred and twenty tons burthen ; will fail with . . '
all poliiblc difyatch—For freight or paffuge apply *''K
PIIATT fcf KINTZING, Iro ( '
no. 95, north Water-flr.'ct.
' > f
Who bave for sale, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
TIZ. '
, Ticklenburghj Patterbornes
] Oznibrigs Checks
Hessians Stripe»
] Brown rolls Slippers Al
! Coffee bags- Cam Wicks
Platillas Twine Opi
Brittinias Glass tumblers
Eftopailles Port wine EITi
Creas ala Morlaix Window glass Wr
Bieletield liner. Brimstone, Sw
' Dorola» Oli
deceinber 13 tb.fc.Hlß.3w Jur
■- A j
FOR LIVERPOOL,
efSL-1 THE ARMED SHIP MOLLY, I
Burthen 34a Tons;
slmOT flout will-found veflel. She is now
v4S'!V'!dSa re " lc 'y tu receive her Cargo, and will
•, fail o.) the firft opening of the river,
y Three-fourth' °f her Loading bring already prn
a vided—for Freight for the remainder, or Passage,
apply to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH. q
dec. 13. tuth&s tf.
REMOVAL. ft
_ da
Geokge Dobson,
INFORMS his friends and the Public i« general
that he has removed from No. 25 .South Third
htreet, to No 91, South fideof Market-fired, near
th» corner of Third Street, snd is how opening 1 '
a very extensive aflbrtnunt «f
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE PRESENT SEASON,
WHICH HE HAS JUST KtCUVtU,
Per the ffaips William Penn, Amiable, and fane, <lit
from London, and per Cheiapenk and fkorurii B!
from Liverpool, and will b-. io|tj low for ca(h, be
or approved notes at a fliort date, viz, 0»
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
Calfimeres, fafhionable colours
*4 York (hire 7 4 do. and do. c( j
Mixed and plain coatings j
Welch flannels Je
Kcrfey beaver, for Spencers
ch Jeajinets and l'ab'y cords •
Velvets atd vflvctteens
Velverets and thickfetts
7, 8, 4 4 and n-8 cotton and linvn checks
is 7-8 and 4 4 bed tics
!i C , 6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
London chintz and chintz furnitures T
5 Furniture cottons J
Do. dimities b,
Purple aad chintz shawls D
Silk do.
' Camels hair do. n
Silk, cotton, and worded hose
India and Britifti mull ins of every description
qj- Black and \yhite orapc
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats aflorted in small cases
Umbrellas 11
>rt- Peelings and fattins
Laces and edgings
,rt- Ribbands
Silk Modes
, Superfine French cambrick j
Cambrick muslins
Do. threads t
Pulicatand Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant ajfortment of
line Brussels and Wilton Carpeting.
november 15 §
IHIRTT DOLLARS,
TT7TLL be paid for apprehending and ledg- '
lhat \ V ing in any goal in the UnittU States, the
,ano following deli.iters from the Delaware Sloop of
War, viz.
1? Thomas Jones, seaman, formerly resided in
Meade Alley, Sou'.hwark, light liair, frefh com
piexion and blue eyes, about five-fcet nine inch-
Ji ° es high.
ni " re Thomas Brown, ordinary seaman, about five '
'*• feet three inches high, light hair, grey eyes and J
Richard Cu'.ven, ordinary seaman, about five '
mes lfet t* inches high, aged twenty-three years,
urth bair, blue eyes and fwarthy.—Culven aad J
t to Prown are both natives of Philadelphia, and are
afds fnppofid to be concealed by funic of their ac
heir quaintance in tips city.
STEPHEN DF.CATUit,
'*• C, nunander of the Delaware
r - Sloop of War.
m dec t; 4Ct
Bond 6c Brooks,
Con nix or M\rK£T AM) Sixth st**sts,
HAVE RXC£Il r ED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and HhII, £ Uli
A LARGS AND CENtRAL OF Ull3
dry goods, I niand
Which they arc now openirg for sale, at the mod to W
reduced prices, for cafti or the ufuil credit. to ad:
nov 17
Old Madeira Wine.
2J7 pipes of oW Losdon particular
MADEIRA WINE,
n strong iron bound Hambto' ca/ks, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. 30. eodtf
~ JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now landing at SouthJlrect wharf,
FOR SALE BV
FETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores ou the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFr£«S FOR SALE,
ERANDY, 1(1 and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINKS, See. i;.
Nov. 1. no
JuJl importid in flips William Penii, A
miable and faun,from Loudon, J A
A quantity of Cannon,fi/.es 4.6 & 9 lb.") with balls , Q
Ca!ronades, I» lbs. i luitabli.
Mufquets, Mifquetoans.Cutlafles and\ '■
Billols, for (hips use, j g.
Rifled barreled Guus, Fowling Pieces, 1
and Horfcman's PiHois, 1 ■-< "A
400,000 Flints, cfjefly for mudkets, in ; j" m<
■ . J *8
j Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
, bards, in calesof 50 each, r I '
, Light Cavalry Swords i» Cases JL
Sabres, Swords and Cutliffes, with plate J ipoutiting the
Ironmongery and Cutlery in caflcs, a general as- i/ig
iortroent —For Sale by Lor
Themes Izf Jno. Ketland, ®d I
Philad. Oiloher a?. . s , v
. ■ ■ tO t
Just Arrived, Yoi
In the Brig F.ii«i, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimstone. c
An alTorttnent of valuable DRUGS,
CO lISLSTIM G or
Opium, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna, J
Cremor Tartar, &c. &c. Bat
E(fences of Lemon rnd Bergamot the
Writing paper is
Sweet oil in bottles and flafks wh
Olives, anchovies capers ket
Juniper berries pei
- AL S o.—ltalian lutestrings
Satins l g
Crapes
Umkrellai
Remaining on Hand, 11
*1 St. Croix Sugars,
r _ Claret in cafas
Old Madeira Wine of the firft qntlity.
JAMES YARD. -r
November 3 § JL
Genteel Boarding 5s 8 Lodging,
IN A HEALTHY SITUATION.
MRS. M'CREA informs her frieeds and the
Public, that (he is prepared to accommo- m<
date several Gentlemen, wi.h genteel Boarding
and Lodging, at No. i 7, Filbert (irtet. do
nyv. 28 dft
r a j James William Miller, pr
ar A'o. 53, North Third Street, wl
Near Arch street, have the following articles for
sale upon moderate terms for calh, or the CO
ufuat credit.
Scarlet Cloths,
' Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ie, ditto, White, lied, and Yellow Irilh FlanneU. j
as Blue, Greea, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
ih, licoes, Currahs, Mamoodies, Guz-zines, and other
muslins, fancy aid plain cotton bofe, velvets thick
j ftitsaud c»r<ls, sewing Clk and twist of all {
colours, ferreting, hair ribbon, coloure : threads, >•
India flag bandanoes, and other black and colour- m
ed silk handkerchiefs, a variety ol other cotton fh
do. Soute romaU, red Gilla handkerchiefs, mo lu
leens, foan fyinninp. luflians, heavt-rs, jeans, fa
tuietts and royal ribbs, also muflinvts and dimitios,
ginghams, ladles'kid an J cjloured gloves; &c.
no?. II dl*;t
* s John Dobbin, f
BOOT & SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends »nd
the Public in general that he carries on his
business at No 99 South S'econd jireet, nearly op
posite the Merchants Goffee bonfe where gen
tlemen maybe flipplied intheneatefl and best
manner —he afliires ;hofe who may pleal'e to fa
vor him with their commands that no auention
lon or exertion on his fide ftiall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders received will be punflually at
tended to.
November 5 $
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of the late William C-lifton,
drceafed.and who have not_alrcadv produced their
their accounts, are reqoiefted to fend them to the •
fubferiber at 110 171.1101 th Second street.
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'i
lg_ Philadelphia, nov. 19 1798 Bi&th4w
JOHN SHIELDS, c
BROKER, '
. Embraces this opportunity to prrfent his thanks a
the 10 f e ll° rJ) ' c, t ,%ens f or tlx'r P'ft favors 1
.. and acquaints tbew that he is returnedfrom [
0 Chefnut HiU, to his former rejidcnce, the
. . House No. ti Chcfnnt between Front c
and Sccond-ftreet, 1
or "' "VT /"HERE he h»lds himfelf ready to execute *
VV their command* in ev»rv branch of his a
si profeflion, trusting that from a refidep.ee in this
city of .15 years he has it in his power to render 1
an< them eflential fervire, aflunng t!.«in that his
r commUlion (hall be as low as anv in Town.
ITC Lotts, Lapds, Houses, VelTcls, Certificates
jr of every description and BilU of Exchange, J
aB bought and lold, tliedocketts Carefully exatn
ioed and clear titles m»dc upon the Olprteft no
ac" tice, by the public's humble fervint,
John Shields. '
Cs* Gootl negoti*blc Note* difcounied J
it a low premium•
s , novembpr 7 jawtf
[Volume XIV.
NOTICE.
THE COPAft I'NERIHIP 0?
HUDSON t? YORKE.
is this day dissolved by mutual conisot. All per -
son» indebted to said firm are requested to maU
immediate payment —and thofc who have -* K J u '•
n.ands are requeUcd to prcfcst them fur fett;.meut
1 to Wll.Ll AM HUDSON, who it duly au;horU-.<i
to adjull the fame.
WILLIAM HXJDSON,
SAMUEL YORK.F..
WILLIAM HUDSON,
HO. 54, NORTH t »OKT-ST*EET,
lias for sale on the ufuai terms, a vziy
extenlive afiortment of
DRY GOODS.
Dec. <o.
- " FOR SALE
By the Sub/cribers,
' ON VERY LOW TERMS
WAX CANDLES,
OF A Sl'?£RlOß QUALITV,
! Either Lv the. single box of -Jt4ibt. or by the quan
i ' ''7-
Willingj is" Francu.
Nov. 24
l. ' ~~N~O~T IC E.
ALL Persons indebted to the Efta'e of doc
tor Hugh Hodge, ijeceai'ed, are requeued
' ls to make immediate payment —and those having
demandsagjinft the Eltate aredehred to authen
ticate anil present them to.
MARIA HODCE, admimjlratria.
SAMUEL HQDGDEN, admimjhator.
hov ao Q
,b. Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application will b; mad# aj the
fury of t'lt United Stales, for the renewal cl
Kg the following cer'ificat's of Funded Delt, Iland
af- i/ig in the name of Robert Whitworth, ol ChcWea,
London, thefaid Ctrtificates haviiigteen forward
ed by the (hip EUice, Hatvey, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, and fuppclod
__ to be lo?..
No-11437, 6 Per Cent. Stock, dated Ntw
, York, ißth April, 1796, Ur Dollars. 1481,47.
n No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-Voik,
18th April 1796, for doHari 400.
SAMUEL MILEANK.
Hovember 18 d6w
Notice is hereby Given,
na, That application will be made at t'.j
Bank of the United Slates for the renewal '
the following certificates of Bank stock, U.uk',. ;
iu the name of Hodgfon Atkinlon of ' .erg
which were loft from on board the Swallow P. t
ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the trench, and aii
perfoos concerned arcdefiredto take 1 ottcc
No. 2424, issued in lieu of No. 185:,
1892, 5662 and 16640, for 4 (hares.
No. 3020, issued in lieu of 11055, and
11057, for 3 (hares.— 7 (hares.
THOMAS M'EUEN W Co.
HOV. 23 d?n.i
jAMtS & RICHARD SMI I H,
HAVE this day returned from the coantry to
their STORE, No. 54, South Fiont street,
. ~ where they heve for sale, as usual.a large and ge«
o> ncralaflortment of European and Eaft-lr.di*
the DRT GOODS,
mo . mad ol which have now arrived and are landing,
iing from the different veffeU, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
U Their Cullojners by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, rmi at a» low
prices for calh or credit,a* they can be had <■ lie
where.
for N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh .TOYS, a
consignment, to be fcld by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. <'tf
Englilh wrought Nails.
recti
' ca " LIVF.KPOOL.
400 Casks of Nails,
f all j /"CONSISTING of 6d, Bd, lod, ijJ, and
:ajs, ! V> lod, flat points suitable for the fouthcra
our- maiket—fid, Bd, lod, 12d, and icd, fine draw n
tton (harps—alio t, 3, 4, and 6 clouts— fprigs—
mo luck» —feupper nails—(heathisg nails, i?c.
, fa- for t/iLi «v,
itios . Robert Denifon, junr,
117 Market street.
Vt
For Sale,at the Stores oi the Sub
scribers, on Walhut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails aflorted
and 10 bales ef fail canvass, from No. Ito 8
n his : j talks yellow ochre
' °P" 1 j tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
G en * London particular ) , . , lr .
ben India market \ Madeira W.nea
o fa- TenerifFe do. in hoglhcadaand pip
won oi,) p ort do> in hhtli,
"der Empty Cliretbottlej
6 cases of Ginghams,Dimkiei, MullinetJ &C.
y at " aiTorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
J# Writing (iates, ink (lands and presses
2® purcheoias Jamaica rum
I bale (earning twine
• H 160 bundles lheathing paper
TON, jkicili-n (5* Griffith.
their april 7 tuth&f.tf
:o the ** "*
TO BE SOLD,
n't "pURSUANT to the last will .nd tsflamcnt of
4w X Michael CAtTs.deceafed,a valsable
Plantation & Trad of Land,
containing one hundre I ai d f;»enty three acres,
the Teflator's late refiftence, fituatcd in North
Sufqushanni Hundred, Ceocil county, tiaryland,
banks about three mile- from the tide-water of Sufque
vtrt hanna.andata convenient distance from fitveral
om placi-s of uorlhip of Fritndsai 4 Hrefhytereans.
he On the premises *re a Tan yard and tonvcnicn
t ce* belonging thereto, in good repair ; a dwelling
houfe, liable, orchard and cth-.r improvement 4,
iccute w '' h ' 1 or r s acres of good watetei meaa w, and
>f his a f'.flicien: proportion ol viiuaMc timber,
r. this F°' terms at>j»ly to the f«l fcriber, in W«(l-Not
ender tingham, anout 3 miles from the prtmifes.
~ v.: £ THOMAS WARING, Executor
12th mo. j 1 th, 1798 j
ange' nsurar ' c f Company lif tbc state of Pevmyl*
xair»- iCTiin»
H no . THE STOCKHOI.DERS ire hereby notified
that an election for thirteen nire<slors to serve for
\ds. °nc JW, will he kcld at the Company's Office
on Monday the fourteenth day of January neat at
Jn!ea Eleven O'clock.
~ JAMES 8. COX, PrefiAnt.
Btl dec 17. d , u j■ '— 1
M&cpherfon's Blues. • '
BATTALION ORDERS,
\-jth December 1798. ,
THE Bll'E"; are ordered to m;et at the 1
City i m AVedjicfday next the 19th infl. 1
0 o'cfcck in the evening, to carrv into
t ffect the rci" lutifn of the last meeting. ,
By order of the Commandant, .
' THOMAS M'EWF.N, Adj. p. t. .
PROPOSALS
HY HKNJAMIM D vVIES.
Fw pub!i/hin<; by fubfcriptiatt,a periodical wori
to It entitled The 'Philadelphia
and Review ; o*•, Monthly Repository of
Information an'ti Amusement.
AFTER the many fruitlefs v tempts, which
have been made tn eftabltfe a publication
of this kind in Philadelphia, the prcpofal. bow
submitted, will, perhaps, at firil appear to
be nothing more than filiating dilappomtment.
When, however, we observe an eager fea' c h
after knowledge fyreadin£ through all parts of
our counrr\, aa l«hen we contuier, that, in
these puriuits. Magazines and Reviews zct oi
un:verfa!ly-admitred utility, we are led to be
lieve, that former undertakings in this way have
failed from foine oth'r cause than the want of
difcernmetit or liberality in those, to whom the
Editor, looked up for support.
From causes, which are too evident to need
enumerating here, Americ# is, and long mult be
beholden ii> a very confiderible degree, to the ,
preiTes of Grta Britain. The literature of the j
t-.vo countfies is, indeed, a fort of common
ft. ck ; but, for one publication of our., we re- 1
i*iv.-, at least five hundred in return. While
th:: i. the cafe, it ts'extfeme folly in the publish
er -.i 3 periodical » ork, to rejefl, fr. m a foit of
spur ous pairiotil'm, all information, however
iileMv and all amusement, however delightsome,
merely because it is not of native produflion.
C vi<iu«, however, as the justice of these re
mark null appear we have very little doubt in
our mind., that an ohflinate adherence to a con
trary notion ha. been the principal cause of the
want of success, experienced by those who have
gone before us.
Rcafon and interest unite in dilating to us a
different plan. The Mifcellanevu. part, and
priacipal part, therefore, of the Philadelphia
Magazine, will con lift of rhoice feletfl ions from '
the nrweft publications cf merit, that (hall ap
pear in Europe ; but, partu uLai ly from the va
rious periodical works pnbliihed in Great-Bii- '
tain,"of which we have taken care to insure the (
▼cry earlielt l\ipp!y. At t?.e fame time, we trust '
it is ynnccefTary to f.iy, that we lhall always re- ,
ceiv with pleasure any original produif)ion. of j
ge- us, in verse rr prose, of our own country ; f
and we fla'ter ourselves with the hope of being j
•frefl (ay >ureti with the agreeable talk of giving j
to such produAions merited praxes and cxten
five O'iblieity
In fclcfling and arranging these materials, to
suit the vari"U. taile. of our readt ■ , we are sen
sible how difficult a talk we hive undertaken. 1
Topleafeall wedonstiexpeA : it ould be a
rain preemption. But we are refolvcd to give t]
ofTencr to none, so far as confilis with the fupe- p
rior refpefl we ow to the fat red cause of reli- i
gion, morality, and social order. In these are a
involved the glory and welfare of our country, e
and they will ilway. be the Polar-star, that Ihall a
guide, ur Übors. p
The Miscellany will be followed by a month- tl
ly Summary of Acwj and politics, foreign a. ei
well as demtftie; under which head will be
comprised a fuedn<3 account of the Proceedings
if the General and State Lcgiflatuics, and the
titir-, at least, of ail the laws they lhall ena&.
The next parr of our undertaking, is a Re
•vi.'-u, of .he principal works of note pubhfhed
in ' ireit-Biitain. Forthiswe must neceflarily
have recou: fc"to the Reviews of that Country.
T; .)ugh i' will be impossible for us to furnifh as
complete an ana'yfis :s that from which We lhall 1
tike our materials, we ftiall not fail to give such J
an account of every publication reviewed in that el
coTitfj. as will c nvey to our reader, inforlna- P
tion '.ufiieient to enable tl;em to avail themftlte. V
at a very early ftafge, of every valuable perform- P !
ance that fhail appear. The advantages arising iNI
from such information aro evident. For want ®
of if our profefiional men and menff taste are S 1
always kept a year or tw® in th« rear of those .
of Great-Britain. We do not hear of a work "
till a long time after it is publilhed, and many re
very valuable ones we never hear of at all. All V
th? vario.ia injuries and privation, we fuffer S(
from this source will, we flatter ourselves, be
entirely done away by a steady adherence te our ~
P lln - . th
To ihat of foreign, will be added a Review of \
Dome/lie Publications ; and here, we most con.
fef's, that we fee! L.me diffidence, bee a use the
execution of the talk must depend, in a great
mcafure, u;>on the abilities of ourselves How
tv r, viith a firm rcfolution to be guided by de
cency, candour and truth, and to take genius H
and virtue by the hand, whenever, and in what
ever garb, we may find them ; with no wish to
wound tlte feelings of anv but the wicked, and E
with the most fincste desire of feeing our coun
trymen (hine inercry department of literature,
We doubt not, that « lhall be able to acquit „
ouTelves to the fatisfaftion of all those who
have the good-nature fairly to appreciate our
motives, and the justice to make allowance for
human imperfe<slions, A
I he work will close with a monthly record
of Marriages, Births, Deaths, Promotions, and £
othcrfafual incident..
As to what cencerns the politics of thi. coun-
try or of £ur»pc, at this momentous period, we
fsia!l alway. view with jealousy every mcafure
of the French Government, and it's cveraiftive
emissaries ; and it in this refpe& some men con
sider us as partial or prejudiced, we lhall submit (
to their censure. For so full is our conviflion
that the war, which now desolates Europe, and
menaces this count**, i* a war of ambition and
plunder, on the part of France, that nothing
ind'ire us to conceal our sentiments, or ta
Withir Id the finall assistance that we can con
tribute to eppofe them. For this reason we in
tend to devote a page or two of every number
to hillorica! tacts, anecdotes, and remarks on
the Polities of France, from the age «f Louis
the Fourteenth to the present more alarming e
poch. For more than a century palt has that
refllefsand ambitious peop e been like a volcano
in the centre of Europe, diftu»i>ing the surround- ~"
ing State, by its intrigues, aad once in every
eight or fen years overwhelming its mod fertile
countries with devaffation asd carnage. c
Indeed it 1. more than eighteen hundred years
since the gr»at Roman Orator* thought it his
duty to warn hi. countrymen against that coa
duii and ihofe principles, for which the present
race of GauU are ; s juHly to be dreaded as their
favagc anceftou ; " Calli< juicm ion habendum,,
bominibus texibns, perfdis., et in ipfus Dens tut
mortcL'S impiis."
By the proper management of this topic our
countrymen wi 1 be able to fecthe real charafterof
the nation, which they fornixrly t-.i lidtud as their
friends, but now n.ute 1 fily execrate as their mft
dang-rout encniie->; and they willbe better prepar
ed to appreciate suy overture., that may be nude
t- for th? reiteration of jeace and amity,
( In the execution of !w« part of our d.sign, par- i
tntiiail. ' »_io..k with c<infiilcnce tur the .uppor'
in<! alii If aitce o all perfors who (hall cowfi jer our
niofi' e- as laudable, an! therefore with to contii
hwtc to the futcef" of our detign ; —of all who
rh'nk, with u«, that the prefsha. heen too long an
e.gi\c of elruflion, and that it ought, at length
to be rendered amran of prtfervatioi', and an in
ftruD<rnt of prottflion."
* Cicero.
" Literature, well or ill condufled, i. th: greal
" engine by which, I am fully persuaded, all ei
" vihfed States mud ultimately be supported or
" overthrown." Pursuits •/ Literature.
The CONDITIONS.
This work will-be published in Monthly Numhers;
and if a moderate encouragement is given the
firft number will appear ou the firft day of Feb
ruary next,
Each nomti.r will contain at least JPifty pages of
letter press, in o&avo, under a blue cover. It
★ill be printtd on a fair and good paper *, and,
as soon as our lift of Subscriber. will warrant
the expence, every number will be embellilked
with an elegant engraving.
The price to the £ublcriber. will be twenty-five
cents for eich number, to be paid on delivery at
fomc one of the places fpccified below, where
the fuhfeription has been received } and as soon
at there are lufficient to make a handsome vo
lume, they will be bound together, for such sub
scriber. as choose it, they paying the additional
expence.
Subferipiions will be received by Benj imin Davie.,
»t No. 68, High street, where thefavours of all Cor
rrfpondenu of which the portage has been paid, will
he rec ived, and duly attended to, as well a« by all the
principal Book-fellei. in the. city ; by George Hill,
Book feller in Baltimore; and by .Archibald Drum
mond, Book feller in New-York.
die. 14. taw iw
Tor sale, ;
at no. 9, South Watkh-Stheet.
liilh Linens, 7-8 and 4-4, well
aflort d, in whole and half boxes
Checks, in ditto
i)rogheda"», and Brown %■% beetled Linens
Irilh Hackled Flax
Seotts Thread
Men and Womens Combs
Rufiia Duck, of an excellent quality, and
xoo hhds. Aux CayesMolaflfes.
By isaac harvet, >«r.
d 4 w
The Subscribers have for fale>
Malaga Wine, in quarter caflcs
Red Port ditto, inPipes, Hhds and quarter calks
Old Madeira ditto, fit for immediate use
French Brandy
Spanilb ditto, (not colored)
Medoc Claret, in Cases
Fir' fort Isinglass
I new Cable, 9 inches
I ditto 12 inches
I new Hawser, 7 inches.
Philips, Cramond &Cx
dec 17
Massachusetts District.
BY virtue of aWarrant from the honorable Joha
Lowell, elq. Judge of the DiftriA Court for
th'i Diftrift of Maffachufettt, " There will be ex
posed to sale at Audion, at the MacUiar. Office in
Boston, on Tuefiiay the firft day of January next,
at eleven o'clock : a certain Box of Watches, sav
ed from the wreck of the ship Corona, stranded
at Cape Cod, and for which no claimant has ap
peared—»' said Box of Watches arc to be fold for
the ptymei.t of Freight, Salvage, and other charg
es, and for the benefit of all concerned, —viz..
Tin Box ? 40 Sitver Watche.
t , >37 G °l<l ditto
*• 3 4 Paper. Trinket.
SAMUEL BRADFORD, marlhal, •
of Maflachufett*.
Dated at Softs n, 1
Dec. 6. 1798, j 17 dtl4
NOTICE,
PURSUANT to » Resolve of the Board of
Truflee. of Walhington Academy, iu Som
erset county, Maryland, authorifiug William
Polk, efqr. majors Samuel Wilson, and
William Jones, Members of said Board, to
procure a principal teacher for said Academy
NO 1 ICE is hereiy given, that a gentleman quali
fied to teach the Greek and Latin Languages, Geo
graphy and the Mathematics, and such other
branches of Literature as it i» cjiftomary to teach
in such Schools, will meet wfth literal encoßragc
ment and it isprefymed will be well accommodat- 1
eJ in taking charge of this Academy. The build
ing is spacious and will accomodate at least sixty
Students.
Proposals may be addrelTed to John Dennis, Ho,
161 Arch-street, Philadelphia, or to either of the ,
three gentlemen above-mentioned, near Princes. |
Anne, Maryland.
dec '7 $ ;
John J. Parry,
CLOCK (sr WATCHMAKER,
HAS again opened at his usual Stand, No. 38,
South S<*ond_/lreet~where he has for Sale,
A VARIETY Or
Excellent Gold £s* Silve.r Watches,
AND A tEW
Eight Day Cclocks,
Which will be warranted to give fatkfaftion.
An afiortment of
Cold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
All kinds sf Clock and Watch work done with j
particular attention as heretofore.
£5" An Appren ice wanted. 1
november it
For•fait by the fubfcribers y
A FEW BALKS O?
WOOLENS,
Containing Cloths & Blankets,
IJO bales Jlengal muflms ]
*0 do. Madras handkerchief., elegant pat- I
terns .
ioj pieces Rufiia sheeting
10 boxes umbrellas
a quantity of caflia
30 tens Peterfhurg clean hemp
JJ pipes, 3 years old, fiiuft particular Ma
deira wine
a quantity of Ihcathing copper
Mordecai Lewis.
Nov. a 6 daw '
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes
Velvetts
Velveritts
Printed calitocs
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk '
Brijftcls and Persia caipctts
Buttons
For sale, for cajh or credit, by '
SAMUEL MERRICK. \
no. 143 Arch ftrcet.
Stjani 1
UxitiD States, 7 «.
' Pennfylva iaDidriit j ■"
r X TOTtc£ is lier«by >;iven that in F'jrruar.cs ola
- IN writ 'O mt directed, from the Honorable
a Ricuaro Peters, Efq- of Diftrift
11 Court of the United Stares in and for the Penn
h f'ylvania DiHriol, will be eipofed to pubhc sale
. at No. Ir7 in Saffafras street on vlor.day thei4*h
day of December inllant, at r» o'clock at noon,
2 Hoglheads and
'! 2 Barrels of Spirits.
r The fame having been Jihelled against, prosecuted
and cond«mned as forfeitctl in the faitl Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marihal.
Mar/hals OHicc, Dec. 15th, 179^*
*> landing,
, e From on board the Brig Am:able Matilda,
Richard Stites, Master, from Gape
if Nichola Mole.
It 13 Bal« Socks and Flannel Drawers s 1
I, 18 Do. Gaiters (J> g.
it 4 Do. Rugs L 5* w
d j Do. Tlsrre Sacks fSJ " w
» Do. Flannel Trowfers 3^3
'e i Do. I'ents, J 7
Alio just Imported,
In the Ship Chefapeakt, Captain W«IA, fr.m
Liverpool^
147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
'' Assorted partiwilarly. to suit the Weft-India
Market—For Sale by
~ Thomas John Ketland.
novemher 7 §
Book-Keeping.
Wants a Place,
IN AN EIISIBIr
ACCOMPTING-HOUSE or OFFICE,
A PERSON that Writes well, is a Ready Reck
oner, a practical l-'ook Keeper, and can be
well recommended, a line, (or pcrlonal applica
tion; dirc&cd t« M. M, No. 71, North Seventh
ftreet, will be duly attended to
N. B Books closed, and new Accomptj open
ed, Furtnurfhip Aceompts adjufltd, or say btjfir.efs
in the Book Keeping line, done at the above place,
or abroad of Evenings. -
dec 17 $
AflOUl nine o'clock lail evening, a white man
came into my (lore, and requested me to ad- }
vance hi;n a few dollars on a Candlestick which
; appears to be silver. Presuming he had not got
1 it heneflly,! afleed him from whom he received it,
and at the lame time called for afiiflance, intending
to secure him, but he direilly made hjs escape
Any period who cai prove it to be their property, (
may have it on paying for (his advertisement, to ,
THOMAS BROWN, j
Corner Stamper's alley, New-Market.
Dec. 15. f3t- {
Genteel Boarding & Lodgirg. )
SEPAR \TE «nd ready furnilhed apartments
with Rented Boarding and Lodging for Ihe ac- £
commodation of four Centlemen (with their Ladies,
if required) may be had at No. 163, Arch Street.
Dec. 14 ld#t
Whereas the certificate of two (
(hares of the Bank of the United States in the t
name of Samuel Amery, of London, banker, {
No. 3181, ifTued in lieu of rijjs, 11594, were
forwarded from London by the Britilh packet
Conntefs, of Leiccfter, capt. Dedd, bound for x
New-York, which packet wat captured by the 1
French, and the Taifl certificate loft ; and for the
renewal of winch, application it made at said t
Bank, and all persons concerned are desired to t
take notice. r
CLEMENT BIDDLE. f
" FhiJa. Ofl. j<, 1798. eo6w
Ready Furnijhed apartments. c
TO LET, EEADT *U*NISHED,
A FRONT Parlour and four chambers, with t
the use of a Kitchen and Cellar, in a a
pleasant fart of Arch ftrett j enquire at the office
of this Gazette.
N. B.—As the furniture is allnew, it precludes
any appiehenfionof contagion from the late pic
vailing fever, p
december It f
Notice is hereby Given, p
TH (VT application will be made Jt the Trea- r
fury of the United States for the renewal
of the following certificates of Six per Cents, 11
funded debt—(landing in the name of Robert 1
Wilfan of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the t
service «f th« honorable United Company of 0
merchants of England trading to the Eaft-In- fj
dies, which were loft from on board the Swal- ,
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New j
York. Dolls. Cu.
No 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dec.
'7#3> one certificate for 173} 33 J'
No (0,478* Reg. office 17th Dec. , S
'7931 one certificate for 1959 50 I
Ellijion is* John Perot. si
nov 13 eodlw si
Hats Hosiery. p
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, "
AT fUS STOSJS, I
No. 134> Market STRSET, t]
HAS JtJST OPENED, in addition tohii for- a
mcr stock, a rery cxcenfivt afTortmcnt of £
Men's, Women's, and Children's Hats, and aU U
kinds of Stocking*—particularly a quantity of A-
berd een knit Hose, suit able for the present season
I]oV > eoira *
Charles Campbell, -ti
w AT C H-M A KER.
TTAS removed to the Shop formerly occupied ?
F , 7° b \ No. tj, corner of ,
Front and Chelmit-ftreets; where he will thank- d
tully reccve and execute orders with neatncfi l<
and dispatch e .
HE HAS COSISTAN/LY ON JAND, 3
A Neat and Large AfTortmcnt q£ p
Clocks ?sf Watches. t<
WANTED, b
A JOURNEYMAN[ti
ytLSO % ene or (wo Apprentices of refpecfla- tl
ble parents. f c
FOR SALE, "
A large quantity of Watch Glasses P
tVholcfate and Retail. a
nov 24 -
3awtf C (
Dancing School.
t<
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL present, his r.f- t]
pectful compliments to the public i takes n
the liberty of informing ,Juib, that at the reoutlt a '
of many of his former employers, he will open b
his School, at lis Ball Room, in Fourth, bet
ween Chefmit andWSlriut street., on the firft Moo- ,
day of Dumber—for y oU ug Indies at ten
o clock ~, the morning—and for Gentlemen, at
Rid"v s < ' Te,imgS Moodajrs, WedneHay, and t!
XIK 05a3?tte.
' PHILADELPHIA ,
1 WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER^).
AMERICAN NAVY.
i
LIST OF VESSELS IK SERVICE.
Guns.
Frigate United States 44 John Barry.
Constitution 44 Samuel Nicholfon.
Constellation 36 Thomas Truxton.
Ganges 24 Thomas Tingev.
' Delaware 20 Stephen Decatur.
Montezuma 20 Alex. Murray.
Baltinittre 20 H'aac Phillips.
Ci.WaHiington 24 Patrick Fletcher.
Herald 3 8 James Sever.
Portsmouth 24 Daniel M'Neif.
Pinckney 18 Samuel Hevward.
Norfolk, 18 Thomas Williams.
Richmond 18
1 Merrimack 24 Moles Brown.
Galley Retaliation 14 Wm.Bainbridge.
EIGHT' REVENUE CUTTERS.
1 BUILDING. |
Gen. Greene 24 Christ. R. lYrrv.
Conne&icm. 24 Moles Try on.
Adams 24 Jrlich'dV.Morris. 1
1 at Bo (lon 24
2at Baltimore of 18 each.
1 at Charleston 24
1 at Salem 32
2 at New-York 44. each. ■
1 at Philadelphia 44
1 at Norfolk 36
lat Portsmouth 4.; x, [
lat Middle-town 32 1
1 at Warren (R. I.) 32 :
1 at BoQon 36 <
Note.—l do rtct offer the above as acom- 1
pletc or formal list, though I have taken some t
trouble to perfect it ; the grades of the com- (
manders must not tx understood, to varies- c
pond with this arrangement. 5
t
—mm> c»— r
" Paris, September 4, 1798.
"■ Tiie accounts from home (America) l
continue to discover a spirit truly worthy of }
the American name ; a ipirit which I earnest- 1
ly hope may support itfelf in all its vigour 1
through the severe trial which it ma ft under- !'
go, and which, if thus supported, will be- ''
yond all doubt carry us triumphantly thro' v
all the dangers and difficulties which weak r
and wicked men have brought upon us.
" You cannot well imagine how much the 0
attitude which our government and people a
have taken, has railed them in the opinioji ''
of the European world ; qut of France, and 0
the circle of French fanatacifin, the clear and
unequivotal voice of Europe declares that in 1
this cohteft we are right, and France is r
wrong. Our forbearance an,d longfufFering,
under accumulated injuries and insults, were 1
well known, and had in fame degree coupte- 1
nanced an idea that was gaining ground, c
that we too should link unrelifting and fub
mil live to that yoke of tyranny and oppref- 1 c
fion which bears so heavily upon the greatefl v
part of Europe. That we too should receive *
constitutions ready made from Paris, under n
the .name of the Rights of Man—should e
have the members of our direttory prescribed
to 11s, and appointed, difmifled, replaced, e
agaih turned off, as the paroxifms of Rew- 0
bell's infirmities, should increase or abate. u
should have French generals to dittate our n
laws, and French agents to dispose of our P
public treasures, and amidst the mod burthen- a
some contributions, and insupportable de- P
predations, sing pxans of gratitude to the n
great nation and her glorious warriors. The ~
French newspapers made no scruple of an- r<
nouncing that a revolution woijld soon over- 11
throw the American government, and place P
the affairs of the United States in the hands 3 ;
of patriots devoted to France, and as it was 11
freely intimated that the influence of France
would be liberally employed to promote this : r(
deferable effeft, the ajguments were doubdefs ' a
preparing which has been publicly avowed to 5 1
juflify the robbery of the pilblic trcalures of '
Switzerland, for application in America. ai
But the tone is now totaHy changed, and the
(lgnal of the change, was the firft shew ol 1,:
firmnefs and a determination to rclift on the a:
part of our government. Dupont the ex
conful arrived at Paris. The newspapers,
not having yet received their cue, asriiounasd
that Dupont had laid that the American
People were as decided in favor of France, as
the American Government was againlj her,
and that this government would fall at the >
lirfl 111 slant of hostility from France against ■
it. Duponf soon contradifted this paragraph,
and gave it as his opinion, that a rupture ,
would only Itrengthen the Knglilh party, °.
and Englilti influence in America, and that a
the true patriots, French and American, P l
wished ratherforconciliatorymeafures on the in
part of France. From that moment the t0
I- rendu government have affected a friendly
dilpofition towards the United States ; as
long as Mr. Gerry continued in France, j"
every letter of Talleyrand to him, funk more '°
and more of its pretcnfions, and since his dc- .
parture every opportunity has been seized
to spread the opinion, that the differences be
tween France and the United States would foofi 61
be amicably fettled. At the fame time it is
- 'rue, the strongest proofs have appeared that
the system is not changed, but onhy the P
courl'e of .manoeuvres ; that the deadliefl en- r
mityftill rages, but only involved in a deeper
mask of diflimulation and perfidy. These hi
proofs, however, are not immediately discern
ed by the world. The public here, only per
ceive the immense alteration d Talleyrand's r 'i
notes from brutal iafoltr.ce and rapacious ex- P c
tortion, to courtly complaisance, andfolicita- t0
tions ; they generally believe that France wilT 01
now yield every point of the controversy, m
and court a reconciliation as strongly as fhc
before rejected it.
" I have said that all this is dissimulation
and perfidy, not only btcaufe thvTe characters ad
| appear evident even' in Talleyrand's last let- be
1 ter to Mr. Ger.y, but because they are yet t
[ more, unequivocal in the reception and treat- ed
I went of li . Logan, a laan who publicly gives fa
- himfelf out as an envoy from the par',} in
America, opposed tp its government. Lo-;.u
arrived at Hairiburgh, and applied for a
port to the French eonful ; the pafl'port was
at firft re f"fed, but afterwards, upon his ex
hibiting his letters from certain Amerit;. i
. charafters, was granted. He went through
rtollind, announcing himfelf every where as
bearing a puLlic million from the United
States, but avoided feeing both the Ameri
can con fill at Hamburgh, and the American '
muMfier at the Hague. After arriving at
Paris he had leveral interviews withTallev
n. n v Wltl * then president of the
n , I 1 dlned wth Merlin, and all
thele Cnxumftances were formally published
; m the newlpapers, which added, that at his
• request the Direftory had raised the embargo
upon alpioft all the American veffcls in the
P°» sol Fiance. But at the fame time Tal
leyrand, iii an underhand manner, intimated
to an American public charafter, not far
; from Firtnce, and known to be warmly at
• tach.ed to his government, tliat he (Talley.
• rand) was sony for Logan's mission, and
had given no encouragement to it—-That he
wiflied him to return to America, and was
• disposed to negociate only with the American
go\ eminent.
" The embargo i.; certainly raised upon all
. the American veflels, for the arrcte of the
Directory ratfing.it, is published in the Re
i. dafteitr, but even this meafurt Sill proceeds
from the old i~vfitm of dividing the people
from the government*- aiid the arrettt rtfelf,
while it profertes irieudlliip for the people of
the united States, isgrofslv mlulting to the
government.
" But this raifmg the embargo, and all
Air. Gerry's anodynes with which he will
probably t'ooll read-, home, are r.othin* fatis
fadtorv to us. The demand for tribute is
abandoned ; that for an explanation or re
cantation «f tlie Pielident's ipeeches is given
- up : theie ir.folent preliminaries to negncia
c tion are renounced, and Talleyrand tells Mr.
- Gerry, that any person uniting his adv antag
- es*wjJl be well: received from the United
States, which is. relieving the pretence to disc.
mils and rcjaC.l again., any person who may
not exa-ftly suit the Dircftorr.
" The decree for reftraiiiing tlieir priva
) tiers in the Weft-Indies, within tine limits of
f the laws, is in fact, tantamount to nothing ;
_ if it means any thing, it must be a confeflion,
r that heretofore they have countenanced those
_ privateers in depredations contrary to the
_ laws, which I have no doubt is true ; tut
» which is among the Imaileft of our nunie
c reus injuries. The laws thenifelves, and the
decrees of the Directory which have the forte
s ot laws* are the greatest of those injuries r
» and that of 18th January, or ncjth Nivofs
j last, is altogether incompatible with the like
1 of peace between France and America,
j A very recent attempt has been »ade in
l the (Council of Five Hundred, to obtain a
5 repeal of this lav . It was on the 31ft of
last month, or 14th Fructidor ; a member of
! the Council, at great length ftatcd its injuf
tice,'its impolicy, and its pernicious tenden
cy, even to France itfelf. He stated as a
' certain fncl, that cf the whose nnmber of
; captures made by the French privateers, fe-
ven eighths at least were neutral property.—
, He complained that it was contrary to the
. mofl^ndilputable laws of nations, that it far
1 exceeded any thing that England had ever
[ done, and that its conlequences could onlv
enrich a few privateer -men, by the
of inoffenfive neutrals, while it drew down
upon France the universal defoliation of all
nations. Ha added that it was upon the
. point of producing a rupture with America,
and that Denmark had declared /he would
protest her commerce agairift it by military
. naval force. Nothing of all this denied
—but one or two members anfweted that the
repeal of the law woti'lddiicuuriige privateer
ing, that the F.nglilli purchased neutral pa
pers by the bak:, and-upon fifth arguments
as these, the council pasted to the order of
the day, and left the Uw in full force.
" The situation oF the Direftory in Eu
; rope is at this period such as makes diffimu
' lation and delay, with regard to their differ
, ences with the tlnited States highly politic.
• Thev are threatened with a new combination
againll them of Austria, Rufiia, Turkey and
Naples, which together with the war they
• have now upon their hands will fumill 1 then*
as much employment ai they wish."
BOSTON, December u.
British papers speak with confidence of the
rapid approach ofa New convulsion at Pa
ris. The Direftory, they seem a flu red,
will make an effort to establish their fwpre
mncy a»d permanency—and to overthrow
1 the Legislative Bodies.
Some French papers praise the meaftires.
of our Government, and the spirit of Feder
al Citizens. Tbey confefs we are real Re
publicans—that we have refeuted Bririfh
innovations—and fhonld be inconsistent not
to resent French.
Violent diftiirhances prevail in the Ro
man and Helvetian Republics. It is 'aid
the Emperor demands the fuprefiion of the
former.
By some articles uftder our foreign head,
it is highly probable the Eritifli fqurfroa.
ha. met the late fleet from Brcjl. If so no
ene can doubt of the proper disposal o.
them. , , \ ,
A well-centrived plan for feiting fire
Port Malo in Frann, was discovered and
fruftraied.
Lsgan, as might be eapefted commit*
himfelf in answering the ill-advised addrefTet
to him.—Our government and the trench
disagree ; one fide is wrong and the other
right. In ctediting Franc! for " found
policy and magnanimity" in her conduA
towards us, he partes an indireft censure on
our government, which every friend to it
must despise him for.
It may be imagined some pains were ta
ken at Bordeaux to procure tigoers to the
address to Logan, from in being fabferi
bed by the captain of the very vefl'e! in
t hicli he embarked. Undoubtedly he wish
ed his paiTerger a " 3iort and plealant pai
fage."J__— If ll *iW»" ■" ■
foreign %ztitltß.
/
VIENNA, September 20:
Oiii cotirt continues its warlike preparati
ons with encrjuferi vigor, fsnce the news of
the? of the French fleet.
The Ruffians march in twa columns, one
of which proceeds from Kaminiek, and the
rtt'rer from Brotli. Several Ruffian officers
a-e already arrived at Ltraberg, to make
the neceuary preparations for the march of
thrfe column*, one of which is to proceed
to Cafcfaq Hungary, and the other to
Tefehen and Moravia.
PARIS, October 8-
The minider plenipotentiary of Portu- 1
gal has set out on his return to Madrid. *
He was not in podeffion of fufficient pow- '•
ers, but it he received those of a more ex- '
tet.live nature from his court, and more 1
conformabl to the toMes of the French go- 1
vernment, it is probable enough that the '
negnciiiUon will be earned on through the
channel of the Spanish cabinet.
ja
LONDON. Oaober 9. I
The Declaration ofW.t by he Ottoman '
Porte agaiu't the French republic, is a moll
import mt event in the present co; vulfcd F
da:e of Europe. It.opens * new fi.-ld for u
speculation on the probable corfequence cf 11
t' e revolutionary fylterti. The lu kis in- r
volved in it, and fatally fc.r himfclf, perhaps,
has invited hi word enemy to protcft him 11
from his old friend. The French e.ideavor-
• ed in vain to reconcile tlie Porte to the me- f
ditated descent upon Egypt. All their de- 11
elarations of fiiendfhip were unavailing, and j
the minitUr of the Grand Seignior, at St.
Peterfourgh, was directed to apply to the '
Emperor in the threatened criiis. and to '
express a hope, that if the Ottoman force
fhou'd be removed from guarding the Rufii
an irontirrs. in order to repel the uifprov k
wl of the French, no advantage . '
•.vouldbe takenoftheirabfenee by that court. ,n
To this application tVe emperor is said to
have repli. ti by his miuiftcr, pot only that no
advantage wott'd be taken of an txcrtion
that ought to be conl dered by every Sove
reign Power us an effort for commondeftnce; ®" u
but that so perfectly Ud he enter into the !'
feelings of the G raj i Seignior, that a fleet Jj 1
of (hips, and a hody of 60,000 mrn, Ihould
be at the commandos (he-Sublime Portc.cn
the mere condition of their maintenance
whileinthe Turkifli service. Iti6 added,that ar
Paul having pledged his royal wo'd, which
in no in/lanee has been forfeited, the Divan '
was induced to conclude a fubiidiary treaty, .
upen the (trength of which war is declared
againd the French. tc
The Fn'ncefs Royal of France, is about
to be married to the Duke of Agouleme,
elded son of le Cour.t d'Artois, brother to
late and present King of France. '! he f-
Emperor of Germany fut nifties her with a
revenue of a million tournois ; and the Em
peror of Russia is to be ac the cxpencc of
the nuptial feftival.
Lord Bridport has dispatched four fail of ''
the line after the Bred fleet a sea. Several te
squadrons are on the fame business. Some J",
personS luppofe this fleet bound to New
feundland. We mult soon hear of it ' l:
ihe Emperor of Germany has feat a V
comniifl'arv to the Ruffian auxiliary army ,a
that has entered Gallicia. with orders to ar
fupp'y it with every necessary of which it
may lland in need.
I he young King of Sweden's time is ?,1-
most entire'y dev.,te«l to the arrangement of
finance, che increafeof his navy.
The intelligence of admiral Nelson's vie- tu
tory was received i:> Dublin with the mod "
genera! andhearth.lt emoiions of joy. The '
illuminations were highly splendid, and a all
pu-dtjuit wai fired by the troops in garri- " c
son.
The Brazil fleet, 117 fail, is fafdy arriv- j!'
cd Lisbon, except a few that arc miffing. e
All the firll lieutenants who served in the r ?
aftion of the Nik are promoted to the rank
of commanders in the navy. at
to
Extract of a Inter from Weymou h, Oft. 8. 'P.
" This morning the Royal Family and wl
Nobility, went 01 board the St. Florenzo a P
frigate, where Sir H. B Neale, her com- ro
mander, gave a grand nublic breakfafl, in tc<
honor of admiral Nelson's victory. The sri
gate and (hips in the road wee all, ot this
•'ccafi n, decora., d in the colours of differ-
ent nations. On their majsdies approach £ ' '
ing the ship, a-royal faiure'was fired." thl
co
CORK, Oflober 7. a S
This day an American Ihip has arrived at
the Cove, which had been captured by the " r
French fleer, bi.t recaptured by the Anfon,
in their view : the caotain report!, that
ffiortly after he fell in with a B.itiflj fqnad {<>r
ron, commanded by Sir J. IV Warren, con
fining «>f tlir cline ofbanle (hips and eight
frigates ; the Freich squadron were on* ret
ftip ot the hne, eight frigates, and a cutter,
Sir John wa- exactly in "their course. The " 1 '<
TejKirt is deemed here inconcedably authen- !lnt
*ic, and we are on the tip toe of expe&ati- nul
on of receiving the French fl et and Gen. P® 1
1 andy, in our harbour, with ihree cheT^.
~ 1 lie Anfon coiitiirurd dogging the 010
ricnch. Ed,
- . . _ . . - cd
Intercepted Letters from France the
to Dr. Priestley. f" r
twi
ym-T nm.iifiEt),
A\'n TO EE S 01. D nV C3 F
.s'*® ffuAIPHRErS,
Sou 1 * ''nrtc-ji'ißEcr,
tlx P-»k <•/ the United States. | ,ur
•in ' ' T'." 0 *' vc pr»"V liiti] to I
t 'I <>l Original lj-rtrrs, recently writt 11 tao
"v « in l'.rK to Or. Pricf.iey „■ „f
;i..rK'
; "7 ** '. v " l,n e a S ai "fi her, in tbc Hbh ' .?
Orrst I\frtam. I Clis
Cj' An Apprentice Wanted, by said 1 ftV
Jini,^)lir t y 6< ' ; jf.
\\ fa if u w i (u<
AM
r":trnk ? >*.• i\t jss of The
Glorious BntilTi Naval Vidtory.
liV AX AHKJV AI. AT I'OfiTSM OT/ TII, N« H.
tr- LONDON, October 15.
of Account cf the battle of the Nde, fought 1
on the id and zd of August, 1798, be- 1
ne tween tlte Britilh fleet, commanded b\ '
he Rear-Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson, K: B.
:rs and the French fleet, commanded by Vice- '
ke admiral 1 rueys, 111 Dcquieres Bav, 011 the '
of roait <-f Iv-vpt. '
ed Ibe leadingd vfi >a, of the British headed '
to I'C Gurner, ti:e Van ihip of the French line, 1
Five of our Ihip,-. went a-head, and brought I
tip oil the land (id* of th; French. The ad- c
miral's own division anchored on the off lide *
11- ot the French—thus placing their line to the
Id. fird Blip a-ftern of L'Orient, which formed '
w- a centre and angle of the French line, be
x- tweerj two (ires.—The /hips in tlie rear in x
, re the French line were, for lome hours, mere '
o- idle IjieCtators of the action, until some of ' J
he our (hlpsdiftu;;aged in the van, led down to 1
he attack then*. e
Upon th_* Cnllodcn grounding, the Alex- 0
j jflMcr and L ander were sent to her affiltance,
to endeavor to get her od". Finding this '
jn inmracticable, the Alexander made fiiii, and
i!t -00K her datum 011 the fide of L'Orient, op
;(j pcfite to th- Bellefophon, and {he
j r I'oppf d her anchor in the middle of the ene-
B f my's line, two ships a-h:nd l.'Onsnt, and «
n . rak-d 011 each !"-.V.
is, Captain Darby, of the T-lleropllor., had
m '"tended Lying his fly.p npnn the bo'.Y of the
r . French admiral's ship L'Orient, but by some
e . accident !he swung upon her broadfido, and
in that {ituation !]>e sustained the heavy fire
J ! of I.'Orient, until that fliip ble.v un.
t< L'Oiient blew up about ten o'clock at
ie n'ght T'he Bellerophon was difmalle-.i.—
0 Ihe Alexander had fuffered much both in
, e the aftion and by the explosion, but nobly T ,
j_ bore up for the French fiiips in the lear of
. their line, which were attacked in fucceffi
,e nby oivr.diipa as their opponen'shad (truck
in the Van.
0 When Le Guillaume Tell and Le Gener-
D eaux, with the two frigates, fled from the ' *
n scene of aflion, the Zealous, commanded j v
by Captain Hood, with a noble ardor pur-
sued them, and was actually firing upon both ! l ' c
e ' the line of battle ships, when the Admiral j
t judged it prudmt to call him back to the
j flee'. |ba
n The engagement commenced at five o' ,
e clock in the afternoon of the id of Augult,
t and continued, with little abatement, until ! S
between one and two next morning; from I
n this time until five the firing on both fides ;
slackened very considerably, when the con- !
j fli(ft was renewed ; and Aeon after the scene '
terminated in the glory and triumph of the
( British fleet, the deflruftion of two French
(hips of the line and two frigates. . t ' l
e [The following further partifiulars are giv
-3 en by a gentemai'l, who had an oppor
tunily of colleSing much information tr f
f rtfpefting this ever memorable event.] 1 1 j
The reason of Admiral Nelson's miffing 01
£ the French fleet originally, was the falfe in- j lc
1 tel'igence given to him by a neutral vedel, 'Ji
. or, perhap«, one sent on purpose to deceive
him. He was told that the French fleet
had left Malta three days earlier than the lt
truth; and therefore, fappofing them to be
far advanced, he made a diredt cut to Alex- t( !
andria, whillt Buonaparte went round bv ?"
t Candia. '
Leaving Sicilv the second time, he touch
ed at the Morea, (Greece;) and learning
f that the enemy had passed Candia, about 'T
33 days before, and had dood from whence,
to the South ead, he again fleered a direst »'
courfe for Alexandria, though in little hopes t
, "f finding them, lie locked into that port, |
a and favv it crowded with French (hips, but \l,
no Admiral or capital (hip. His despair ?•"
•vas now at its height, when the enemy's
_ fleet was described from the isad-head. a
few leagues to rhe Ea - ward, in the bay or ° n
e road flf Aboukier. lie initanlly directed
. his-courfe towards them, and found them
at anchor, in a line extending from N. W.
to S. E. They were at fmgle anchor, with
springs on their cables, and riding head to
, wind, which was fiom the North-wed- To }-[,
( approach them, it was necessary to fail j m '
round an iflarid and a re?l, which prnjrc
t ted from it, to the distance of several miles r. ,
from the point- on which the small fort of ][,
Alooukeir Hands. The wind was perfed
ly fair, both fr»r thid, and for approaching i le;
the fleet ; but Unfortunately, in rounding ani
the reef, the Culloden, the leading ship,
commanded by the gallant Troubridge, ran f ro
aground, and could not be got at all into f !X ,
aftion. After this accidt nt, Nelson found He
himfclf with ten ships only (three having op;
fillen several leagues adern) to fig\t 13 of He
;he enemy, and several of those of superior tlie
tore- to ary cf his.
The enemy began firing as soon as our
(hips came within (hot'; but the fire was not thj
returned till we clr.fed with them. The fro
Zealous difmaded the Gnerrier (headmod poi
(hip of the enemy's line) in three broadsides, thi
and she was completely bcated in five mi- per
nutei [he fix headmyll ships were.taken to
psffeffionof the hrlt night, (cemaining ddl the
at anchor) and L'Orient ble,w up. Next tio
morning at day l>ght the action recommenc- can
ed, and other (hipi were taken and dedroy. A\ii
ed ; nor did the battle en ! until the fore- the
noon of the third day, (Aug. 3.) when con
the enemy's rear was com p.-Heel either to this
fnrrender or run. fwo ship* of the Ine and nio
two frigates, by their less aifabled in it w
their mads and rigging than our ships, ef. son
caped, although pursued. All the captur- poi
ed (hips were dilVnafted. The Timoleon afi
fharcd the fa e of L'Otitct ; and those of the
! ,ur crew w ' l9 swam to the (hore, were aid j tive
jto be mrfTacred by th- Arabs. The advan- e.l
1 tages h, hi out ro Nelson ly the French ad- : son
mi al were great indeed; so that we hope afiij
I that the Almighty had confounded the coun- be
j cils of tin c»emy, both in the expedition it- I
j fell, aid in the manner of conducting i>.
j If the French admiral could not have made wo
' fuel) a disposition cf his fleet at ar.chor as to tria
™ ~ crmma:.d (he Buy of Aboufcciiy he fliould
hdve got his fleet under fail, so that every i
y Ihip might have I)a-] a chance of coming in i
to action. As it was, his line wis so difpof I
ed a' to he in the direflion of the wi'id, I
wHrtft Neifon had the option of attacking
the line t-i windward, and, of conrfe, of t
ie- growingr>«ti of the action, ail the leeward
Ijv A' P s « which being tied down at 'iichor, r
by thtir faulty could not come e
x . U P to the afii.iante of those which were ?.t- i
he tac ked ; f<> that' the different part of their p
line were beaten in fncctffion ; and on this
?c j matter the- decisive nature of (he viftory n:
e. tui "ed. Had they bcea call loose, in all fe
lit probability many would have escaped ; nor
i- could Neifon have ventured to attack them tc
k with his ten ships that evening. m
ic It mar be added, that had Neifon fallen fy
, f j in with the enemy on the way from Malta E
e- 'to Alexandria, the utinoit he could havedone in
, n was to beat or destroy their Ihips of war : th
re ' )ut the tianfports, See. would have efcapcd T
)f back to France and Italy ; for not one of jdr
;o them could in all probability have been tal;- 'an
en, as our fleet would have had work enough ' up
of a different kind. As the matter now is! w
f) the French army runs a risk of in j
is 'X-Jypt ol ' Syr ia, and the enemy may bid a- in
d c '''* u to their Mediterranean fleet, k pc
). °f their be ft tfoops and seamen ; belides til
T having 1 wantonly converted r.n old and ufe
fu? ally into an inveterate arid mischievous ftj
d eneni >-- ta:
c xl)c oasette. t
-1 — l,ll 1 ■ -' c
PHIL A DEL PHIA, ft-
WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECE \IBER 10 m:
tal
f HIGH COURT or IMPEACHMENT. pu
c SF.IfATF., DKCZ'.uJieji j3.
The Senate having, bv taking the oath re- H
. quired by lav/, formed 'into a 'Court wi
B < f 'nipsaicliineat for the purpose of tryinf--' De .
1 William Blount, charged by tiie Howie of
, Representatives with high crimes and mif
-1 dcme.inors aifainft the United States, 0 f
I A letter was received from MelFrs. Dal- ft|,
e ; li,s Hntl i I'lgerl'eil, deiiring to be heard at the pa
! bar of the Senate as Counitt for William
> : Blount.
> j O.i motion, leave was granted, and the
1 j Secretary ordered to notify the House of u s.
1 j Representatives thereof.
s ! A little after twelve,, the Managers of the r '° t
_ i House of Representatives, as well as the
„ j Counsel of the defendant, appeared at the p j'
. 1 Bar of the Senate; when the President of the
j Senate pro tern. (Mr. Laurance) addressed
the Managers to the following effeft ;
| " Gentlemen, . mt
_ 1 » " The Senate being formed into a Court
_ of Impeachment, are ready to proceed in the
trial of illiam Blount,Tate a Senator of J-'
• tlje United States, impeached by. the House
. of Representatives of high crimes and mis-
L tl( -'mcanors against the United-States. It will pfl
be neeefiary yew flisjild be informed, tiwu - ,
; Mr. Dallas and Mr. Ingcrfoll have applied -
t to be heafd as Gounfel' in behalf of the de
fendant, and that leave has been give-n tha'pi t
_ to t en:l in that capacity. I fliall proceed j;
. t( ' rea '' the articles of impeachment exhibit
cd against the defendant. [The Pielident
here read the articles of impeachment.] A ,
copy of theft; articles (continued the I'refi- p '
. dent)- together with a summons for his ap- "
pearance before the bar of the Senate on the ° ff
f Monday in this present was T
; rvcd U P°'\ ti,,; defendant by the Serjeant at
i -• rrns ' and a due return made thereof
[wh.ch was alio read]. Notwithftandin- Bc
tins, the laid William Blount has not ;n>
peared before the Senate « required. The
Court are, however, now ready to hear tlie
Managers of the House of Representatives Ur
on this trial." foh
Mr. jHarper (as Chairuiau of the Man
agers of the House of Representati ves in the
ablence oi Mr. Bayard) then addreftd the — 1
v-.ourt to the following" efF*£t : wa;
4 a J ft please tins Honorable Court,
it" - a? ? Uire^e dbv the Managers of the '
Houie of Representatives for conduain? thr the
impeachwht against William Blount/and his
a o b\ the. House of Representatives, to
r the ®°ti»» which have induced the
Houle of Representatives to apply for the ap
pointment of a future day, on which to be
heard on the fubjeft 0 f lh , ir impeachment lig=
again ft \\ illiam Blour.t. The time being
so Ihort betwixt the receipt of the A
from the Honorable Senate, and the hour ,
hxed for receiving the Managers before this h:u
Honorable Court, it did no V allow them an ftlf
opportunity to receive direftions from the ha,
House of Representatives with refpeft to mt
fl,ture proceeding 0 n this trial.
"May it pleaft this Honorable Court, ho
" The Committee of Managers conceive, gy
that m consequence of the meiTage received hor
from the Honorable the Serrate, a very im , n ,
portant prehminary question will arise in ' n
this bt.finefg, and upon which the Mana- 3Ct
pers of this impeachment cannot presume thii
toaftuntfl they have been inflruaed by latf
the House of Representatives. This quef- a llv
tion is, " Whether this Honorable Court ft '
can proc.-ed to the trial of William Blount, ,
.without his pcrfonal appearance before ho I
them." Conceiving this point to be of moi
confidersble magnitude, the Managers of and
this impeachment reported it as th' ir opi- _ n ,.
nion to the House of Representatives, that
it would be proper for them to appear be- WOl
fore yen HouorabU Court at the timeap- am l
poi itcd, for the purpose of requefling that pari
a further day may he afEgnrd for hearing jr w
! them in behalf of the House of Reprefema
ti\ts on this trial. The Managers(con(inu- Ut
ed Mr. H.)d» r:ow, therefore, appear be- enci
fo:e this Honorable Court to requeil the ty a
jiflignment of a future diyon which they may by f
be liearj on this important question," . '
liead wished the Chairman of the
Managers would name a day to which he
would wish the further prwcdings on this b - ei
trial to b? poflponed. " Jou
1 i
uld Mr. Hsrper hoped the M.iilagers of this I
cry impeachment would be *ble to receive the |
in inflruftions of the House of Repref-nta- 1
of tives, so as to appear and proceed in thii i
bufinrfs before the Senate oil Monday ne*t. |
np Tlie president was about to put the queL !
of tion on a pollponement; when
ird Mr. D-dlas wiflied to know whether any j
ir, record had been made of the non appearance j
*ie ot Mr, Blount. This, he conceived, ought
at- not to be done, as he and Mr Ingtrfoll ap- ■
eir peared as Counsel in his behalf,
lis The President answered that Mr. Blount's [
ry name had yesterday been called, and his ab- j
all fence barely noted.
or Mr. Ingerfoll Hated, that he had applied
m to the Clerk of the Senate at the commence-
ment of the Seflion, and informed him that
.11 Mr. Blount had appointed himfelf and Mr.
ta Dnllas his Counsel, and requested he would
lie inform him wheu any fttps were taken in
: the Senate relative to the impeachment.
:d | I hat they had taken the further step of ad-,
of j dressing a letter to the Senate on the fabjedl
- j and as thev had been always ready to titter
" I upon the business, he milled their client
is ( would not fuffer on account of his absence.
"j . "^ he PrffitJ ent said the Senate had been
1- informed by the Clerk of Counsel being ap
-9 pointed, but had not a&ed upon the buiinefi
*s till this day.
The Prelident was about to take the que
ls flion on a postponement in the usual way of
taking qseftians in the Senate ; » hen
» Mr. Read hoped the qneftion cn this, and
all other fu jeifls which might come before
the Court, might bc decided by each Mem
her being aflced his opinion separately, as
was the custom in all other Courts of lu
ftice.
Ihe President said, as no order had been n
made to the contrary, he fliould proceed to -I
take this queflion according to the usual f«
mode of taking questions in the Senate.
The queilion for poftponeirent was then (
put and carried nem. con. vi
The President then informed the Mana
gurs of the impeachment on the part of the
- House of Representatives, that this Court
t will be ready to receive them oa Monday
* next at twelve o'clock. a |
1 she Managers then withdrew ; when h
Mr. Read rose, and said the impropriety
of taking tli<s sense of the Court #n the que
flion which had been decided, must be ap
parent to all. It was lowering the dignity
™ and solemnity of so high a Court, to proceed -
in the decision of quellions, as if the Senate
were in their legislative capacity. It
1 usual, in Courts of Jultice of every descrip
tion, for the Judges to be applied to fepa
; ratcly for their apinions ; and that in all fu
* ture proceedings this mode might be adopt*
ed, he made a motion to that efFeft.
" Mr. Bingham thought, if any regulations j!
were neceflary on this fubjed, it would be g ]
much mere proper to make th«m in their ni
legislative capacity, than in their capacity "
„ a .« Judges. He did not think it very dignified "
f to . r Judges to be arguing a question of this
kind. Mr. B. said, that the mode adopted
had been that which he had heretofore seen
j pra&ifed on a similar occasion.
- The motion not being seconded, the court
j adjoivned to Monday next.
~ The legislature of Virginia have re-tlefled
j J ames Woed Esq. Governor of that llate
foi the ensuing year.
t C
Part of the oargo of the New.Jersey has n
" been discharged into shallops and sent to in
Port Penn, 't s supposed the ship would get C
off on Monday lalt. w
. Brig Molly, Churnfide, of this port from th
t LaGuira to Nei» York, is taken by the St. w
P Albans, British man of war and sent into
Bermuda. _
: co Mix ess.
tln House of Representatives of the /
United States this day, the blink in the re
solution laid on the table by Mr. W. C. V]
- Claiborne, |for prntijig an edition of the ?.
federal Conflittition, wasfilled with 40,000. ft
—On motion of Mr. Hai'per, the resolution
was then referred to a feleit committee. t0
»i
In Sennte, the hon. Mr. Davenport from
tlie slate ot New-Jersey, appeared aad t c ok aa
his feat.
Salem, December 11.
Our government is under a moral ob
ligation formally to DECLARE WAR Pe
against Finance—or the principles upon
which their late measures refpe&ing her
have been founded, must be abanded as "I
falfe. It is true those measures would #n|
have been fuflicient to have roused any on
nation, po fie fling one spark of national 0 c
ho or or felf-refpe«Tl, or feeling any ener
gy in her ftfources, either to propose an
honorable accommodation, or to declare E!<
an open and honorable war. But this last ih!
act is left for our government. It is true A
this formality *'ill not much alter our re
lations to France, but it will very materi- 1
ally affeft our internal situation ; for until
that is done, France will not abandon her
hopes here; her secret agci t. >vill be
more induftroufly employed than ever ; J
and divisions will be constantly excited of
and fomented i>y them. But that a£t Nc
would take us at once out of our present
amphibious situation, and crush the French A r ii
party in this country. At the fame time T r
. 1 * oir
it would not create an enemy, but only rv,
put us in a situation to aft with more anc
energy against the enemy that has alrea
ty attacked us.—Every nicafure yet taken r
by government against France, has been
opposed by men who have afterwards i
been convinced that it o ut ht to have Sta
b.en taken befcrj ; and this will tin- on !
doubtcdly Jliare the fate of the reft. d
ft
M *> /
** f
s . . -> , /
j Nicklin & Griffith,
[ HO'E FOR SALE,
h,v | Sail Cloth by the bale or piece»
*t. | (No. i & ?,)
( One hale 6f fetmirg-twine
Copper in (liv-cts, iiom 24 by 48 to 48 by 60
inches
,n y Two tubs railed copper fllll bottoms
ICC Queenr' ware, assorted in crates
rht London porter >n bottles, contained in cases
ID- . Empty port-wins bottle*
Yellow oehre in colics
f j Cochineal in feroni
' 8 < ludig lin do. Sc calks
•b* | 35 cafea and trunks of muslins, ginghams, dinii
lie», mullinets and puilicat ham.kerchiefs, irt
; C( ] small afforred packages, calculated for the
„ e> Weft lndis market
14 trunks printed callicoes
iat 4 bairs callimcres, aflorted
If- I do. coarse woolens
l!d "Id Madeira wine
i n Sheathing paper
r Englifli nails in calks, aflTorted,
id'- Th e Br 'g
:a AMAZON,
cr FOR. SALS 0* CHARTER,
nt December 19. m w.&fa.tf
:f - IR 1S HL IN E~RTS,
en 4-4 and 7-Bth White Linens welK
P" alio etd I, Entitled
ifi 3-4 Brown ditt* ditto J> to the
,V 4 Irish Cfiecques fu it able for t'le 1 Drawback*
Well India Market. J
' FOR i-ALE,
ot On reasonable terras—by the Rox or Rale,
By Gamblr & Hklmuth,
'd No. 148, South s-coud-ltreet.
re dec 19 3ta.vtt
No. 123,
as The fouthcafi corner of Market and Fouib
11 " Jlrrits,
J A C O li COX.
" I 1 TLT 'jnlt received hv the late arrivals from
10 II Europe, a large, general and elegant aJ
aI fortment of "the molt
Fashionable Merchandize,
:n C«1 gent'emen's line)— The whole of wl 'c'i
will he uitpoled of, wholcfale and retail, at re
j. dticed prices forcafh.
Ie c * rc ' '9 mf'
rt To be Sold,
7 T'« time of a (lom healthy Lad, aped
about 17 year>, and bound to iferve until it ;
:n he is honest, unrlerftands the usual bullnefs of a
y family, and has beta aceu Homed to wait on
table—Applv to
t BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch ftrtct.
> december 19
d ~ THiS~DM--fUBUjH£D,
;c Br WILLIAM TOU NO]
8 Correr of Chefnutr.ud Second-streets
>- JOANok AKC,
l - Ay Epic Poem,
1- fly Robert Southey ; Willi raits.
" WE do not hesitate to declare our opinion,
that the poetical powers displayed in it are of a
very superior kind—Conceptions more loity and
daring, sentiments more commanding, and Un
it guage more energetic, will not easily be found •
ir nor does scarcely any part of it link into languor,
y as thn glow of feelings and geniu- animates the
d whole. The language is, fjr the mod part, mo.
delled onthat of Milton) and not unfrequently, it
hasattrong reltfh of Shakefpearr."
Monthly Revitw, vol. 19, p. 361.
■ '■
A HISTORY,
rt 0R anecdotes of the
REVOLUTION in RUSSIA,
IN THE YKAR T762.
i( j Tranfhted from the French of M. dc Rulhicre;
With an cltfgant Head of the late Emprci's.
f[Thefecond edition, price 75 cents,]
1 he grounds of M. de Rulhierc's Inform at ion
fe-m m lifputablp, and hi« reader- appear to have
id every reafort to I c fatisfied with difcernnient,
in unfrldrng the motives a:;:i circumstances that
concurred in bringing about this flriking event,
" e only add, that we h«ve seldom met
with more intereUing wrigißal anecdotes, than
T\ those that are contained in the Jit tic work winch
wo have now reviewed. 1 '
0 AppenJixto Munthly Review, vol. 12.
. *^ ec I 9 Wi&min;
•rite caeoiTOßs,
Of JOHN M'DON/'LD,
or Pii! Ladelfhia.
e ARE hereby notified, that application (• the
•- Court of Common Pleas, for the county of
Philadelphia—for th« benefit »f tha Ail of the
] General Aifembly, »f the Commonwealth of Penn-
fylvarja, providing that the p-rfun of a Debtor
'• ft'.a 11 not be liable to imprisonment for debt, alter
[l delivering up his cPate for thebemlit of his credi
tors, &c—pafied the 4th day of April, anno do-
Mini, 1798; and that the Judges of hid Court
n have appointed Wedn<-fd:.y, the second day 9 f
January rezt for a hearing of fa:d John M'Donsld
v and his Creditors, where you may atteiri.
JOHN M'DONALD
T 9 flwed
FLOUR\ FOR 5~717E~
DELIVERABLE at N f w-Caltle or Port
, Penn, by
L l' LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH & SON
1 __ dec '9 d 4 w
' Deleware y Schuylkill CanaU
i T""HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
, X Eleition for Prelidcnt and Manag r«. for the
•nfuing year, will be held at the Company's Office,
r on the firft le.ond-dsy in January mat, at ten
I o'clock in the forenoon.
Susquehanna & Schuylkill Cctial.
1 THE Stockholders are hereby notifeil, that the
> Election for President and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will be held at the Co npany's Office, on
■ the flrft second-day in January next at ten o'aloc'c
. A. M.
GEO. YVORRALL, fec'y
Delaware 1$ Schuylkiil Ca id Compa>y.
■ '9 ,'t.-
; Bank of the United States.
November 14, 1708.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
THAT application will be made at th'c Trea
sury of the United States for the. renewal
of aCcitiskate of Six perCent Funded Debt,
No. 15,548, for 18,;8i dollars, 13 cents, dated
Uegifter's Office, January Bth, 1798, iffi.ed in
the naroe? ot William Wiilink, fan Wtl.'mk
Nicholas iJ Jacob Van Staphor/i iff Huhbnni
Tr .llees for lundry m.-nry lenders in Amster
dam; which was for* arded the nth of Jat:ua
ry» 17<)8. under cover to Nicholas Ohln-s, ela.
and loft bv the capture of the (hip Columbus"
captain Skinner,from New-York tor Am ftrrdani
G.. Sinpfon, cqfh'r.
Jz 1 a A'f;W
An excellent Horse £s? Chair,
TO he fold on rtaCmai Je term* at the l'.iver»
Sta ie No. 18 North '1 hlrd-Strect,
on^n| E ,'b b. to a g-ntlemen in
on' 01 >he J roops 111 th;s Citv.
dee l)
\
' I/a
'*» .r -? > ■ , m m i
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholders ire hfreVy notified, that an <
I'.*■ wliojt f«»i* twi Ivc Dirc(ftor», for cnfu ; »
u ill eld at thc Back on MonaUy, the ;
i4 r ; ; «.f January njxc, at ten o'clock.
aiCIIARD WELLS, Caih'r.
x;otL 1
ANY French Ladies and j
nn n wanting yi: iiage for France, can ob'ain it in f
a Vclfel at New-York, by applying to MefTf ■
G-nii it Muaifuid is that Lity.
Dec. ;B.
P;s Denies ou Mellieurs Francois, qui Teu'ent
pall r en F.mce, peuvent itrt accomodce, fur utl
Vatiment partant de N. York, enl'addn ffant chez
M. M.Galin and Mumford, dan cette ville.
" r ?- 3t
rtili SUBMRIBims,
Ox the City Dancing Aflembly
ARE iriormed, that the Fird AlTembly will be
heUI i'Chur(<!dyt k e i«lt. atfELLEts Hotel.
Thomas IV. Francis 'fames G'tbfon
Thomas Ketland Jonathan Williams
bfalhexu Pearcc Stephen Kingston
William Marph'rfon Samuel Murgatroyd
December 11 dtzoD
N O~TTC~E.
ALL Persons indebted to Ihe EllJte of Wil.
lutn lately decealed, are de
sired to n akt- iniifiedia'e payment and those who
ha'-'- any cUirrs againlt laid Eilate to pioduce
tlieir aee. unis properly aitelied to
Sam'. Price, executor.
no? ir- dfm
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. i, to 7,
On moderate terms far Cafl) or a short credit
James Lyle,
South-Seventh -street * near Chef nut.
nov 16 $
FOR SILK, "
To be EXCHANGED for property wit Win thirty I
mi cs of the city,or to fe£ 011 gi juiid-rent fofiver
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire cf William M. Biddle.ne. 147, Chcfnut
-1 ftrecc.
Lancaiter County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
Enquire at i\ r o. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street.
Her 1 f
LARENVE StCKEL,
No. 155, Muriel-Street.
First quality London Particular f - , mr , rr . c
Madeira, Pert, Sherry and Lisbon j ,v^Ni - s *
Cogniac Brandy, ill to 4th proof.
Spirits.
By the Pipe, Hhd, Qnarter-cafk or Gallon,
dec ? mw&fiw
BALLAST.
A QUANTITY to bedifAofed of, if applied for
i 1. immediately, on board the Ship Louisa, lying
Mr. HUMPHREY'S Ship Yard. h
novembcrio. j f
Ironmongery, Cutlery, &c.
THE SUBSCRIBERS
INI ENDING tu decline their ptefent Bufmefs,
offer for sale, at reduced prices, a handsome f
alTortment 01 IroEmougery, Cutiery, 4cc. in lots '
to suit the purchasers. 5
John Green ts* Co. P
No. 1:6, N«rth Second flrett.
(dr Ironmongers ri
Will imd the abovt Goods not unworty their
attenrion.
f
FOR SALii,
By the Subscribers ]
200 Bolts Russia Duck, tt
50 pipes London pamcular bill Madeira Wine
j paii nine pound Cannon rc
A ie,v Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
4000.hs Fine Flota Indigo
«,5 Barrels lieef.
. Willing* & Francis.
Pcnn-fireet, >
November 2S ) J
Prime Sugars,
Will be landed from the Enterprize, captain
Langdon, lying at Morris' wharf,
Forty one hogsheads of
Jamaica Sugars, of the firft qual
ity (entitled to drawback)
For sale by
Wharton & Lewis,
no. 11j, south Front ftr.
dec- yt d 1 w
-% ... . ...
A LL PERSON.) having any legal demands a- -
x "V gainll ihe eilate of William Pit kin,, II
hti of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
requelled to furnilh their accounts properly au-
thenticated, and all persons indebted to said eft ate
sre r/qjefted to make payment to the fubferiber m
Philauelphia. A
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
U>ftobcr .lilt, 1795. wi
W
Wants a Place, ca
A WOMAN with a good Bread of Milk, jy-
Enquire at No. 58 South Front street, 1
Pec. 10. p
The time oj an Atiive f 1 "
BLACK BOY, te
WHO is about fivcen' years old, and five d ?
years to ferv-e, to be disposed of. He is „
well acquainted with the buCnefs of a farm, and
handy at cooking or waiting in the heufc. En
quire at the oflicc ot thii Gazette.
Nov. 16 coiw
ten Dollars reward: —
DESERIED last night, a fecood time, front
Marine Camp, J)aviJ Luprr, a fife.—
He ha,dwhen he v. ent away, a plain I lue jacket and
V'-5 -blue overall a, a round hat,which hpdbccn
hfli/iid with vailow, and-.vhich he had ripped oft T »
111 hi« fnfl defrctitxr, and a pair of new shoe». he is T
•» Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, far.d;' hair ,
f lloar c««nplrMon and a nitch in his upper lip °* ;
His back ;s Htil fore from a flogging he got a few
4ayt ago He may be difcovcreJ by hi,' fifeing, fini
V lie p:.:j • . sircniely well. Fou
W. W. XiURUOWS Major Com. of the 1 °wi
1; Marine Corps. d
N () T 1 C %
LL Persons having claims upo.n the Estate Indc
-I .1 ft Jamei Thorium, Ste.necutter, deceaf- are i
td, arc dclircd t'vp-efient them for piyment— and
an i those indebt.-d to pay their refpedt ve bal- ducc
r,ce< to
ZSu.jjwin IV. Jilcrnt, aJmini/L alor.
1 v 14 jawjw
*""" IHE CARGO,
Ui iira Ship INDIA,
Aaomcao, from bA'l AVIA,
Consisting <f
;; * n , I JAVA COFF EE,
JOf the i'iiit (Quality—to be Sold, bv
MORDECaI I.EU'IS.
r _ f '"~ 11 2W
••i_ !/ ' FOR SALE,
t]g 4 BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
lt in 14 four pound Cannon, l iffcrcntjcngtbs,
•flb 5 Carrotfadea.
JOHN NIXON & CO.
December 1. $
U, t O BE. SOLD,
run A quantity of choice 1 imofhy is" Clover
:tcl * HAY."
Enquire of the Printer.
deccmber 7 d6t
|y For /ale by the Subscribers,
ui* The Cargo of the Schooner;
r£L * Sincerity, from LAGUIRA,
>SO (croons of cotton
a ms 40 do. of indigo
n fanegas of cocoa
■oyd hides
) 4 bundles of gum
38 barrels } COFFEE
Vil. 1 of Ueer lkins
de- Willing.s & Francis.
who dreember 10, 1798 drf i
luce " 1
Now Landing,
From 011 board the /hip John Bulkeley, and
H for (ale at the Itores of Jcffe & Robert
Wain, i
35°)° co weight of Java Coffee,
'» of the firit quality in hags.
:dit 150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
in cannifters.
Nov. 23 H-T
irty tii *'■><■' Ships Adive and Liberty,
VCi from H iMBURCH.
ts, Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
lut - White Platillas
5 Brown Silefias
Bretagnes ; -
Heflian Rolls
st, Brown Russia Sheetings j
German Lindfeys,
_ Bed Ticks, isfc.
For Sale by I
GEORGE PENNOCJC,
io 3 Marfte t-ftreet.
nov 10 $
SHOEMAKER & BLRRII "
j HAfF. RkMOVtl) THEIR a
INSURANCE OFFICE £
to No. cf, south Front street.
far J°
mg Their rcom at the Coffee-houfe Will continue to
be attended froti 12 till 1 o'clock in the day, and r<
from 6 to 3 o'clock in the evening.
_
JACOB SHOEMAKER, §
:fs, Has also removed his Counting-house to the so
lie fame placf, where he has for file a few pipes choice I t c
3ts London Paaticular Madeira Wine ; French and I
Spanifli Brandy; Clsret in calks and caf-s, of fu- fl
perior qullitf, and a few Packages Olafs and , )(
Queen's-wsrt ; also, a quantity of Carolina Soal- '
leather, which will be fold very low to close the 1
Tales. th
sir Phi'adelphia, It mo. n, §
THE PARTNERSHIP OF ab
Alexr. J. Miller, & Co.
BF.ING dissolved on ili« firft instant, by the
death of James Davis, all pcrfons indebted
to the fame arc requested to fettle with tke fnb
„e fcriber, and thofeta whom they are indebted are
requested to call on him for payment. H
ALEXR. J. MILLER, J
i\o. 64, South Front Jlrett. ha
J pa
Who has on hand, gf,
TO BE DISPOSED OF ON LOW TERMS) P r '
By the Package cr Piece. °'
Fine plain and tamboured Muslins fch
Guzzennas v '
Battas £ "
in CofTaes
Rabobgungie3
India Cillicoes *
Bock Muslins ve >.
Coloured ditto
Real & Mock Madras & pullicat hkfs.
Brown Silefias ,
Tickings, c. tsfc.
r - tini
JUST ARRIVED, ly :
# A * ASSORTMENT Or
i, Irish Linens & Russia Sheetings. an
e nov 38 9 ™ a
1-
* A Young Man, J
W HO writes a g° ,>d hand . wderftands »! c
VV accounts andean be well recommended, in
wants a SituaHon as Clerk or Assistant in a I
VVholefale Store, or Comiling-houfe. Appli- C ; D .
cation to be made at this Office. v '
nov 14 _
To the Creditors of the Siibfsribers
" pLEASE TO VAKF. NOTICE, that we have an.
" dL P' ,edto thc i Ufi g«°f the Court of Common
Pleas, for the benefit of an aQ of aljcmbly, pals d ihe
founh dsy of April lall; and they have appjtnied
THURSDAY the «7th in(l. to hear us and our Cre
-5 diiors, in the city of Philadelphia, at fnch place
where the Court may be held, ana wnere you mav
attend if you please.
PATRKK C'WANAUCH,
J miVIES DOUGHERTY,
PEIER G. ROSE,
JOHN GREENE, I,
LEWIS D GRAFF, of V
JAMES M*CALLEY. men
RICHARD STOKES thet
i _ dcc ' 3aw 3W
L 0 S W,
IN one of the itreet3 between Union and SaC
fafras, on the jth inllant, the outside Casb
of an Gold Watch, chafed 011 the haek
with a ftiield. Any person who may find the
fame, and will bring ito this office, will receive /V
Four Dollars re W atd» and the thanks of thc
1 owner. in t ]
dec. 7. here
TTi r> • and
All Perlons havi
lnde'-fed to the Eftatr of HENRY HILL, deccafed rc< l l '
i arc requested to make payment to thc fubfcribcr ; au| h
and those having any demands on the fame to pro'
ducc their accounts for fsitlcmcnt.
GIDEON H. \KEI.LS,
Ij9, Market street
Philadelphia, dec. 4, 1798 cu: f d c
PRF.SH FRL IT - • j
This dny, will be }nndt<! at H wri'tQa'^:
wharf, from on boaid the brig Eliza,
captain Vanghan,
MALAGA FRUITS,
* Of the bed quality, confining tjr
w ?un Raisins in kegs,
Muscatel and Bloome do. in boxes,
Figgs in kegs and boxes,
ths, fliellcd Almonds in sacks,
Jordan do. in boxes,
I. Lemons in chests, x
Anchovies in kegs,
Pruens in boxes,
A few jare Grapes, See. &c.
Also on hand,
Holland Geneva in pipfs,
Sherry Wine in quarter caflts,
French and Spanish Brandy in p ps» and
butts.
lpr Best Glive Oil in boxes of 1 2 bottles.
For Sale by PETEit KUHN,
No. 179, N. Market Street.
December 6. diot
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AND IS REM.OVING FROM SO, 8, CHKSNUT,
To the Five Story Building, in Dock
7uar Third-flreet.
Where he has for Sale
CONSISTING OF
| CofTaes
and Baftas
>ert Mamoodies
i Humhums
a I Calicoes
» Handkerchiefs, (sfc. life.
The remains of a Stock oJF
DRY GOODS,
r Conjifling of Woolens only,
AMONGST THEM ARI,
Cloths
Coatings
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Mats, &c.
ALSO,
j 100 Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fine flavor, 3d & 4th proof.
! nnv 10 ft
l'orty Dollars Reward. 1
DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com•
mand, at Camp Wefl Schuyliill, viz.
Oflober 29.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, 5
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair iftid
complexion, bom in Holland, no Trade, l"p;ak»
j broken i'litglifh and very talkative, has 3 dimple
in his chin.
j Nonemier 6. John Murphy, years of
age, j feet 7 inches in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and completion, born in Ireland, city of
Dub in, by tradea Hozier. ' F
1 Jjcob Ideri, 34 years of age, 5 feet 6 inches
| high, grey eyes, fandyhair, irefn c-omplciior.,
to born in Mew-England, fiate of Connecticut, a
md re F cate d deserter, by tradea lJlaiklVnith.
November 7. William Collins, 3oyeais of
a g e >, S f c et 6 inches high., sandy hair, frefh com
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of
Wexford, by tradea Gardner, has worked for
he ) some time ibout Philadelphia, he is very fond
1C « j to hear himfelf Sing. •
"d All the above dtiertcrs are very much addiil
,u ed to liquor, an 4 will tajce other people's pro
perty if 111 their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, had on, when they went away,
thftir regimental 6lothing. Whofoevcr appre
hends said delerters, fhal! receive forty dollars
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reason
able expences, by applying to me as above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
td regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov jo
L Woodbury academy. —
re
THE Trustees of the Woodbury Academy,
in the county of Gloucefler, New-Jer.'ey,
have the fatisfaiffion to inform the numerous
patrons of that inftitufion, that they liave tn*
gaged the Reverend Thomas PiSon, to be :hc
principal, and to take upon himfelf tlis charge
of the above seminary of learning, and that the
fcheol will be opened on Monday the tenth in!t.
Among the exercises taught here, will be the
Engli/h, Latin and Greek languages, gramat'*-
cally.—Reading, Writing and Arithmetic in all ' 1
t its branches; Stenegraphy, Geometry, Geogra• jL
phy and the use of the Globes, Navigation, Sur- sou
-veying, &c. ' rcp
1 his infhrution was formerly under the care ing
and - ireifiou of the Reverend Andrew Hunter, col
and the fame attention to the education and mo net
r-ah of the youth, which under him so highly pub
diftinguifted it, will be purl'ued with onremit- cat
ting endeavurs, by theprefent principal and du- lub
ly attended to by the truflees.
The town of Woodbury is situated on an high fii
, and elevated lpot : It is airy, pleasant, ind re- the
markably healthy, and is but nine miles diftanr dia
from the City of Philadelphia. <,f i
Paienti, guardians and others, who are dif
pnfed to fend their youth to this place, will find TV,
8 f xce eding good, decent and comfortable board
> mg and lodging, and upon realonabie terms.
a Further applicatiun may be made to the prin
• cipal, or e Ci J
John Sparks 1 1
Thomas Hendry Hyl
Franklin Davenport d
Jojhua L. Howell J-jTruftees. —;
. John Blackiuiod
1 J"hn Lawrence
Thomas Hejlon j
" ELISa,\ CLAKK,
„ Secretary of the Board. QV t<
All persons £
of Lj th ! of Fin no, late o! w
0 Vhdadelph'a, deceaCed,are desired to make pay- cclic
them'for two
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adtn'r.
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent brici
no¥ . 3 0 to the adittiniftration. who,
i —— ' rcqu
NOTICE. " '
ALL persons indebted to the Estate of Sam both
uel Wallis, esq. of Murcey townftin' f W °
in the county of Lycoming, lately deceased, are' ,
r \ qU ' r ~ ° £ one tor *ard immcdiatelv It .
and pay their refpedfive debts.— And all perlon's m?i
L a n' n fl mands 3Bainft ,he E "«e, a,e
q. Ed to Pf°duee their accounts, properly drain
authenticated, for fcttlemer.t. 1 y , , K
JOHN WALI.IS, rf *' ei
SV =■
dcccmber 3 taw 4 w S-
IMl*o K T E D
i: ' J |ln the last arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT REASONABLE PRICES AND ON A LI 3 E
CREDIT, BY
PRATT & KIXTZIKGy
N0.95, North Water ftrcet
215 bales & boxes l'icklenburghs, 1
hempen iineus and oznabriga from I_/j to
3f P er ell
70 do. bleached and brown hessians
40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bags
20 do. Itrong do. do. for cotton do.
30 chclfs platillas 2 do. fcaling-wax
.3 do. dowlas 3 packages uil-cloth
, 30 do. ala Morlaix 4 do. fail-twine
an ' 12 do. efiopailks z do. watche
-15 do. Bi.-lefield linen 14 pipes Port wine
90 do. patterbomes 91 cases claret
) 4S do Brittanias 130 do fine tng corked
I do. Holland Canvass claret
I do. Ruflra do. jl6 JO hufcels fine lalt
V _ 3 do. Rullia ftectiags .|0 csiksoftwM bri.T.llooe
1 do. ravens duck 100 calks of naval (lores.
2 do. Ruflia drilkns 50 logs iirime mahogany
I do. brown holland 4 hhds. coff..e mill.
r, 2 do. SHefia rcuans 0 bundles German lleel 1
I ds.Wahreodrop linen 10 clicfls of ilates and
1 do, Caraudoles pencils
1 do. I'leniifh linens A package of feates
I do. canibricks and \ do. woolen caps, sac. (
5 lawn* : 4 cheits of Nurenbcig 1
I do diaper toys
12 do. ili ipei 40 yellow ochre '
18 do. cljccks 3 Si'nds. Gl-it
i do. (tamois S }>arrcl> of Lentiliet
I do. Arabia (lripe s chefls of prime red
I do. bunting for color* crud Holland cheefa
I packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
I do. i urkey yarn 400 fide* of upper and
6 bales empty bags 7 foal leather
I chest hair ribband 300 boxes window glass
, 3 boxes tapes, assorted Bc>o Demijohns
a do. bobbin, alTorted 50 boxes glals tumblers
I box til reads & tapes alfortcd
1 do. fine blue liffados 2 hhds. pumice stone
j chcfts men'sflippi-rs 1 box of mill laws
3 do. bed ticV- I cask of cutlery
2 calls hog*s lirifMes A cjuan;ii\ of flame jugs
6 chefls writing paper and pickling pots
4 da. quills \ f»w (hips an*hor<, &c.
November ti tiu'if-tf
[ FOR SALE. '
Rice, in whole and half Tierces.
Sherry, ana 7 WIMI7<
, m . Tenen.Te J w 'NEi>. c
Carolina and Georgia Indigo* B
AND A PARCEL OF C
5 Shipping Furs and Skins. £
nd A Pl»'y to ~
N. &J. Frazicr, l
3 c Ns. 95, So. Front Street
(t novernher 13 .V»w.iw E
rk IMPORTED,
°f
From Hamburgh, Bremen, and London,
AND FOlt SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBERS, T
An alfortment of German Linens, '
CONSISTING Of
of T.ckleaburgs
OiMaburgg ar
of Wd " '*»«> |oi
Checks and stripes
I>l . Bielefeld linen
lc ) Brown file lias J cc
Silcfia lawns ■ 'i<
Siamois, &c» &c. in
;<j 150 Boxes of Claret.
y, 5 Uoxcs 0!' hollow glass ware
c _ li cafkscf Russia brilllcs
es ■Ji-sp on HAND,
i- i Box of Irish Linens.
I Trunk silk goods
I Box of Gingham, Ol
And a complete ajfortment of j "■ 1
- English Buttojis. | tcr
Erich is? Lewis 801 l man,
No. 100, Spruce lire*-.
, novenber 19 eolot
I s NEW NOVELS, PLATS,
MAGAZINES, Wc.
e
Chalk's Circulating Library.
e A r o. 7J, North Tbird-Jlrect. ' ,
I r Proprietor, in compliance with his pro-
X miles to render this Inilitution a complete 1
- source oi rational amusement and infl:m!ho;!, !>y j "
repeated acquifiti.Jiw of entertaining and iotereft- !
s pubjicaiic'iis, has now added to li is former j \ /
, colle«ilion Four Hundred Volumes of mil'celia- ! 4
neous works, comprising nearly all the' latrfl i cit )
' publi//.ed Novels and Dramatic froduflians j a& '
- catalouget of which are ready tor delivery to iS?
- lubfcnbers ' | Coj
K. B- Snbfcriiiers, and o'bers, who flil) re- ; th ',
i t'in Books taken from the Library-previous to i
- the licknefs, are requeued to return them imme- j
t diateiy t the fines will be charged from the 14th • \
of November. :
| t. . J tl,c
Englilh & American Playing Cards, at '•
Sold iVhokfaie and Retail. \ j,"
VVhr.liiale dealers supplied with Boston ' cept
Cards at the fame a. at the inanufaflory. j Vnt
Fine si ivored Imperial, Young Uyl'on, Hyson, ' I'als
Hyson Skin, and Souchong TEAS. j nexi
dec. 13. " limSw
Valuable Property for Sale. j j
FOR SALE, l 8 b
THAT well known Estate, called
SHREWSBURR 1-ARM, lormerly the lef'dence
ol General John Cadwaladar, lituite on SafTafras
River, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout J9OO acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500 A
o! which are in woods. The Builcings aic all ex- tcra
eclient, and confifl of a hatidl'oKie Dwelling House, Ec .'"
two hge Barns with Cowhoufiw, iublcs"for fifty ' w
horses, a '.pcuoua trea<fag floor under cover, a gra- P art
nary, two Jverfecr's houVes, two ranges of two (to- llu;1
ry building! for Negroes (.Be of them new and of
brick), Corn houfis a Smoak houfc, &c. &c The
whole Estate being nearly fji rounded by water, it
requires but'ittle lancing, and has a guod Shad and
He 1 ring filhcry. It is conveniently situated for
both tlie Philadelphia and Daltimore markets, wiiji ! Fro
two landings on a navigable river but a (hoi t fell ' jp
from Baltimore. There is a large Pi ach, ami two : X"V
large Apple Orchards on the prcmifes; also, a varie- ! had
ty of excellent fruits of diffeiest kinds The foil is ( om
mc.flly a rick loon —The whole will be fold togc- mov
thererdinded intofmaller lari«s(lcrwhic!ithe buil- .nut
dings are convt nicntly situated) as n-.ay suit tbe pur- ters
luler The itock 011 said Harm, coslidixg of Har- her
cfes. Cattle, hh.ep &c. will alio be disposed of.—
For (urther particulars apply (0 OroßCt Hastings. —-
on tbe f remife»,or to the l'ubfcnber, in Philadelphia
A?.QHI3ALD M CALL, Ju<.
Dccoai! cr ;a. J: , '
ALL PERSONS,
HAVING claims atjainft the PstA're as
SU3ANb AH LQGKFER, doccaUv], ,!•<.
icquefird t prelcnt thei.- refpedlive accounts 10
N-ITHAN A. SMITH,-! . .
OR (
KAL JOHN DORSET, \ Exea " orl '
nov iaw6w
Ircet XJISI'RIC l uFTknNsYLVAnIa, TO WIT •"
shs, i_ __ -ff ** kemembeksd,
f$ to ( Ls \ THAT on the twelfth day
S. oi August, in the twenty-third year of
i.,n« the Independence of the United States of
taua Amtrna, Benjamin Smith Barton, B f thefaiddif
cof- «*»#• )l4th in this office the title of a
boot the right whereof he claims us author in the
words following to wit :
GO. " New Views of the Origin of the Tribe»and
" Nations of America—By Cenjamin Smith Bar
th " ton, M.D*Corr«fpondejit Member of theSocie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
" t,'ie American Pbilofophical Society, Fellow of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
** 801 l on, Gorrcfpondidg Member of the Maffa
>rkei " ohufetis Hiflorical Society, and ProfejTor of
" Materia Msdica, Natural Hiflory and Botan/
It " in the Univerilty of Pennfvlvania."
Hone 1" coi.lormity to the ail of the Congress of the
ores. United States, intitled "An a&for thu. encourage
gany c.ent of learning by securing the copies of maps,
i charti,and books, to the authors and proprietor,'
(leel 6f luch copies during the times therein mentioned.'*
and J SAMUEL CALL) WELL,'Cierk, Uift.of Penn*
| November i. 1798.
Java Coffee,
beig 1 7
chre ; 35°.%g s °f Quality,
I rt j Now landing from 011 board the i:iip INDIA,
es il Mr ' * hos " P enr °f"' s Wharf, jnd ior I'ale by
red John Ash mead,
'cefa No. South frnnt-Strcct.
Tley WHO HAS ON HAND,
and For Sale, cm reafenable terms,
Coflacs
jhfs Baftaa
lilac k Taflaties, &c.
ileis Off ic eodtf
ne 'Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fwtilied, Woolwich proof,
withjhWr carriages complete— 3, 4,6 and 9
jui(s pounders.
Carronsdes, Woolwich proof, with carriages, See.
4ie. Complete—ia, 18 and a4pour.ders.
r C * Cannon powder in kegs of *slbs. each
- Round, double-headed, and canuilUr (hot
Patent ftcathing copper, bright, aflorted 18. 20,
22, 14, 26 and 23 or per I'juare foot, fceets 48
eS. by 14 inch.,, furtablo for lront 100 to
iocotons
Copper nails, bolts and spikes
Boarding Pikts.
Common cuclaflVs
Gunner. ftorvs of all kin 3;
Tin-plates No I—l-3 crof; kcxes
I'atent (hot in calks of ;cwt. each
, London porter and Hrown lUnt, ir. calks «f 7 doj.
bottlid.
v Earthen ware iac.ates, assorted
Far Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near sth ftrect.
• » Oiinher 19. co t f_
Inftrance Company of North America.
1S ?
THE STOCK HOLDERS,
are hereby informed, that a stated meeting
j of the Company will be held at their Office
I on the Bth of January next. (beiu£ the se
cond Tuesday in the Month) for the elec
tion of twenty-five Directors for the ensu
ing year.
E- HAZARD, Sec'ry.
DJC. I 2tll.
An Apprentice Wanted.
ayouth,
Oi Reputable Corincciions, & fuliicirnt qualifications,
j is wanted a* ax* Appicnticc lo ihc Ui.finefs of f N'»-
ra ty Pub lie and Conveyancer.—Liiquue ot the Pun
ter .
eC * t, f W.2W.
1' OR S A L /,
- No. 7, South tuuRTH-STKte 'j.
1000 pieces Nankeens,
A Jiox of Silks
20 Boxes powdered Sugar Candy of ijjwt.
A parcel very line Caflia.
C. HAIGHT.
< * ec 5 .^ifjti-:" r " '•• - ■ aw 1 w
0. For Sale,
!y i well improved Plantation, <*
(j. ! Of one hundred and twenty acres,
er | \/tKV btaatiluliy situated in the county of
a . ! V Monrgomery, about twenty miles from the
-tl I ca ?' —buildings are all new and finilbed so
_ , as to acco.i modatc a genteel family only For
to j lurt^cr '"formation, enquire at the P< nnfyivania
, Coat-01-Arm.s, nineteen miles from town, and
I thice abov« Morris-town.
e 0 " I . Member 15 fe.&w.tf
c " j Philadelphia, November 26, 1798.
'' ! A LL pcrfons deCrous of furnilhir.g by contract
j rations of provisions, fti and fuel, for all
; the troops, which now ar--, or nereafur may be
; at any or every station, pod, encampment, re
' . cruiting rcrdczvous or dfewhere in the state of
; l'enrfylvinia, lcr and during the year 1799, es-
N : cept atl'iefqu'ifle, La Bcttiff., Fort l ranklin and
, Pitl&ttrg—■will be pleased to f-nd 111 their propo
,, : sals under scaled covers, on or bclore the tcth of
j next month, December, to
v I£NC H I' RA NC IS, Purveyor.
THE RATIOS TO CONSIST OF
I 1-4 pound of beef or 3 4 of a pound ol poMr. 1
18 auuc:s ot bread or flour
1 jj,dloor. r turn, brandy ortihi&ey.
J 2 quarts of laic "N i
4 quarts of vinegar ( „ ,
4 pounds oi' soap > For cve T 100 ration .
_ I I-lib. candles J
o AsiCougrrl'smay at their next fcllion make al
t(rations in the quantity of lomc oi the compo
nent parts oi thij latior—it i» requested of thole
' | who l -ay off. r proposals to name the price of eacli
1 part, which will lerveto govern in cafe of ciimi
: nu;ion oriacreafe.
£ nov. 16 tn,Mf&tb.tioD
« ; * _— —
\ Mrs. Spurrier,
r MIDWIFE,
J 1 Fratn die cityof London lying-in Hospital,
II pMBHACES this opportunity of returning Iter
0 J -S- J lincere thanks to thole ladies whom (be has ' .
- had the honor to attend, I moltr«fpe<slfully in- > *
s forms them and her other Tunds tlut she lias «f
---move-d to sou h 6'ixth ftreej two doors from Chtf
- nut fireet, oopofite Cengrtfs Hall, where (be flat
ters herielf Ly careful att?nt : on to the duties of
- her proleflien to merit their future favors.
nov v'S s! w^'a-Inl
MAYOR'S OFFICE
i'.EMOVED t$ 157 South Second-llrcet.