t of tije AwPhiidde/phta Daily Adverii££t*
IVvmbek 17 13. J
FOR SALE,
Weft Indian,
1 Philadelphia built, live oak and
ee<ar, n coppered, (beathed and bolted, 3 yaars
•It, fails rcmarkaoly well, carries 15 a 1600 bar
res now lying at South«ftr«et wharf, ready to
k d PETER BLIGHT.
«arJi 6. siw
For London,
£/&/)> Star,
Joseph Woodman, master,
Intended to fail on the 18th inft.
ipJ+isL. ABOUT 59 tons on freight
* will be received, if immediate ap
plication is made to the master on l>card, at Wal
nut street wharf, or to
Thomas & John Ketland. ,
50 totu Gravel Ballail forfale sa board laid (hip.
march t.
SALT.
3500 to 4000 bushels of largq
grained SALT,
From St. Martin's on hoard the Spy, at the
Still House wharf—for fdle by
Stephen Kingston,
46, Walnut Street.
SAID SHIP
Will fail in a few days
For a\tvannahin Georgia —For freight
or apply as above, or to the
Captai o r .i board.
. Felifuary *7 *eod3t
for Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominlick Terry,
Jacob Dkhart, Maficr,
Having great part of her cargo en
gagtd.—For freight apply to
JeJfe b* Robert Wain.
February jfi
Nicklin Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Strett Wharf—
HAVE FOR SALIi,
58 hhds. of Jaimaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
Tenerrffe do. rn pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ef thefts
x. to S
DirflitLes, Ginghams,
ges suitable for the Weft-India market ——-
Slails affjrted
bottles
>ueeus ware in hhds. and erates
r ellow ochre dry in caflts ;
at New-York, on board the
ihip Diana, from Liverpool, expe&ed round
as soon as the navigation is opea,
: ine Liverpool Salt
Joals
Spanilh Brown ' \
Venetian Red :
fS&S \ rA,NT *
White Lead |
Red Lead J
F.i'.cothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Beaming Twine
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Go.
J now changed to
NTCKLIN W GRIFFITH,
January I. eodtf
I For Sale or Charter,
7 he Snow
MggU GOOD HOPE
• itMfer&A Will carry about izoo barrels, and
is ready t« take in a eargo. For terms
Pr^
No. iji, South Second-flreet.
Who have f«r sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
lid Rum, Madera, Lilbon, and Teneriffe win*.
November 7. dtf
"" Three ar four Single Gentleman,
may be accommodated with
Jenteel Boarding and Lodging,
On readable term?, by applying at No. 31,
orth-Rreet, between fifth and Sixth-streets.
February 13* eod3t
St. Croix Sugars.
i 5 hogsHeads heft ST. CROIX SUGAR,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON iff Co.
Feb. 9. fm&wtf
VV anted,
An sr&ite, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
ido the business of the kitchen. Su«h a <*ie
Jl.be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
y.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 §
Twenty t)ollars Reward, i
noR taking up a runaway servant Girl, named
L rt bigail Mil'er, latterly calling herfelf Betsey
mith, and feniiagher to North Front-street, No. ]
J. ihe is of a chunky make, and very dark
amplexion, with round featarcs, and black bulhy
air; probably much altered by paint and pow
ers, as (he is luppofed to befecretedin houses of
1 We, though no more than fifteen years of age.
f'Vuary 19. s eoiw
~~IN THE PRESS,
A>) WILL BE PUBLISHED*
(Price 25 Ccntt)
lefle<tton6 on Monroe's View
OF fJ-coHBVCT Ot TUB SXECUTirt,
\s published in the
GAXETI'of the UNITED STATES,
the fignatura »f
CiPIO,
1 wHich thecofßV, rcll j wlr f are 0 f France is
>ace<! to the Fre. fadlion in this country
it* tource, and the ot ; V es of the opposition
the measures o. the Statej are expefed.
vdb. *■
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, MARCH 7, 1798.
7 0 he Let on Share t,
A valuable Farm ready (locked,
WITHIN miles from Philadelphia, on tke
wed fide of Schuylkill, aod near the turnpike.
It is expedeJ th tenant wil; fin 4 suitable per
j fens to take care of a dairy and attend marktt,
■ with ail other necefTary labour
1 ALIO, VA^At,
A Gardener—a Single Mail.
None nc«d apply, in either cafe, unless can
bring good recommendations.
Enquire at No. 30 Market-street.
march 5. *"
~ To be Sold 9
An elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a Beat
two story brick House and kitchen thereon, an ap
ple Orchtrd, &c. lituate on the Irifli traA laae, in
the cownfhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars wilf
be made knows upon application at the office of
the PhiUdelphia Gaaettfe.
The improvements npon this place, for tadeaftd ;
elegance iland unrivaßed.
N. B. ti tbe above.place is not fold Sefore the
20th iaft. it will thufi be rented, for the Summer
fcaTon only. 5 march 5.
Notice is hereby given,
T I applicatioa will be nia<Vl"or the renewal
X of a Certificate of a Share 1c the Bank of the
Unit 4 Status, (landing in thenatne of the Subfcri
bcr. Nr. and dated July 11,1797 —the faiau
having been 1011.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 6w
To he Sold,
The time of a Negro Girl,
Eleven years of age, and who has seventeen
years to serve. She is lately from the country, is
hvalthy, strong.and capable ot £omg the ifghi
work of a small family.—iinquira of the Printer,
march 5. $
For Sale,
By Elliston £s? John Ps rot,
A r # 41, Kir to IVgttr Street,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipe* and
quart r calks, 4 years old and fit for immediate use.
Inferior do.
A few bales Allibad Cofles
Bandanna Handkerchief*
Sail C'anvaft, No. 1, to 9
A lew bags of Juniper Berrie»
A parcel of Soal Leather, and S
A few boxes of China,
march j tuStf4w
; FOli SAL£, ";
The House in Chefnut-ftreet,
~** cat ?4laerl>Bt one to the corner of
occupied by Its eligible fitaation
is well known—The rooms ar t spacious and con
venient, and finilhtd in ahandfome flile—lt has
a double Kitchen, and excellent Cellars, with aa
Ice House and rain water Cistern, and there is a
Fump of good water near the kitchen door.
For terms app r y to
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
*• §IW
TO LET,
And may bt rninreA on
A good dry Store,
Three (tori 's hij>h, and in ?n excellent fland for
Jmfiufs. Apply to .
Thomas tf JoJiua Fiber,
march I. < No t. Docl'- r^et
Red Clover Seed of the best quality.
MADEIRA IVIKE,
Old, ard fit for immediate us«, m pipe*, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Tencriffe Wine,
And, Window Glaf-—all of which wiH be fold
on very reafaaable terms, by
John Crxig,
No. 1%, Dock Street,
march 1 w&stf
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Siat,
FOR 1 Y aeres of land on the Old York Road,
within fight of Germantown s.nd about five mile 6
from the City, the whole being under g**d fence,
and in excellent order as paflure ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Crssson, it his office for the
sale of Real Estates, Conreyancinj, Btc. No. 54,
High-street.
ad mo. »6th. iawaw
rn» Qytrv
By WHARTON & LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street .
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rbm, 7 entitled to
1(1 -*nd id pro.f Brandy, J drav,'baek.
Madeira Wine,
Berries, &c. &•.
Peh. g. eodtf
■ ■ - ■ 11 -
James C. & Samuel VV. Fiiher,
AT the;r stqre,
Na4 l 3> corner of Arch and Front flreet.
t!AVE FOR SAIS,
Cotton and viorfted Hosiery in trunk»,artbred~
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty ronvall Handkerchiels
Ditto F« 11 text silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurralw
Bengil black Taffstie*
4000 pieces Nankcen6, and
FeVv chests best Hyson Tea
jflft—lsoo box s best London Window Glsf»,
from Bby6,to 19 by 14— a*d 15 hhds. Qla(s
Ware afforttfd, tfhich they will dispose cf cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18 3ta*tf
" JUST ARRIVED,
tn the Ship Star, Joseph Woodman, master, from ■
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, assort- ]
ed to suit Weft (ndia market
40 h-'glheads Whiting
bu(hth god House Coat*
AISO —JUST LAKSID,
410 barrels prime Beef, Boston and New.York
50 barrels Fork
I to hhd«. Havar.na Molasses
Woolen Cloths !
Blauketa > aflbrled in packages t
Hard Ware J \
Ravens Du-.k {
Window Glass in boxcj, Bri.-iOi, of various C*e; 1
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of 1 groeeeich |
A general affortmeHt of Qtfeens' Ware, in crates t
Fowling Pieces and Fiftols, in cases ,
JJafcet fine Salt, in hoglheajs
tot salx ay
Thos. iif John Ketland. t
february 1t {tlm
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chcfnut Street.
LJNDIMC,
AND rOR SALE,
e The Cargo of tic ihip Flir American,
Samcn Burke, mailer, from A ux-Cay£«, now ly
ing at Brll's wharf,
, CONJItTJMO or
MolafTes, Cofiee, Sugar and Dye
W.cd.
Apply to
ISAAC HARVEY, jvu.
5, South Water-street.
3 ™"- 6 ;iw
Edwazd DUN ANT,
No 149, South Front-fireet,
Has dill remiinje?-of the Cargo of the Johanna,
1 from Malaga,
, 66 kegs Sun Raiiins
i 91 jars fine Woom ditto
F 41 hhde! erior Catalonia Win*
Mountain .and Malaga Wixic, in hogfteads and
[ quarter calks
And a few qr Chfks fine old Colemenar VViae.
He bai aJfo % a few package: oj
Calcutta and Madrafs Goods,
ConjiftL g-of Humhums, Tickcr»cs,PatnaChio»z,
Bandanna, Pullicac and Barhar HandkcrchUft,
Choppa Romals, black and coloured Persians, and
black Peppftr.
£r Wanted—A Male and Female
SERVANT, of- unexceptionable charaiiers.
march I. *3teod
1 he Commiffiontrs
FOR carrying into sffcA th- TWEN i Y-FIRST
Arride oftheTreaty of Friendship, Limits,and
N.ivigition, betwAn Hit Catholic Majesty and the
United Statts of Amwrica, hereby givi inlorsnation
to all perlons therein concerned— I hat in order
to terminate all difference*, en account of tbeloif
e* fuflaincd by the citiaens of the United States, in
conlcquence of their Vt fTe's nd Cargoes having
been taken by the Subjefts of His Catholic Majel
ty, during the late war between Bpain and Francs,
that they arc ready to receivt (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and enc o'clock, daily) ail
complaints and applications, authorized by the said
Article, dur/ng eight EEN mdnths, from the day
•f the date hereof, and that they have power to
rxamine all such persons as c«rae before them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the com' laint* in
question, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten teflimony, authenticated in such manner u
they shall think proper to recipe or admit.
By Order of the CommiJJtu ere,
PETER LOHRA, Stentary.
Commiffioneri Office, No. 109, Mulberry
/rat, May ljtb, 1797.
Feb. 18, '98 —' Itn
Those Printers in the several States rciapublijb
\ ed the above adtiertifemenl taj} Sprinf, art rcquijtij to
j Tt~puiiji jj our month, and fend their a:counts to P. L.
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers ot the Delaware aad Schuylkill
Canal Company, February
Refolmd, l'hat ten dollars on each (hare of Stock
be called for ; and that the Treasurer
give public notice thereof agreeable
to law.
Extra* from ii« ? i <»ntc. '
TnjftffJn:!., Secretary.
AGREEABLE to a refutation oi iht* President
and Managers of the Delaware and ScbuylMl Canal
Company, the Stockholders are hereby required to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
refpe&ive lhares on or before the ill of pril next,
to WM. GOVETT, Treasurer.
February 18. aawtA
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the csmmsn foal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jel-fey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, m and
for the said county, praying that they would
attend to hear what cin be alledged for or a
gaind his librration, purluan: to an ail of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an aS for
tb relief of infoltfent debtors," paflVd the 26th
day of Jaiuary 1798—And the the fa d court
did appoint Vlonday the i*th day of March
next for the pilrpofe dforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Precinct, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, ef which
his creditor* are requested to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape M»y, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14 —r awj w
Boston Glals Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the minufaAure of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House iu
Boston.
It is needlefc to fay any thing of the excellent
qu-diry of the Boft .n Glaf«, as it isfo well known
throughout the Ut,ited States to be in every rtf.
ped greatly superior to any ever imported irom
Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be conflantiy had by applying to Charkt F.
Kupfer, at the Glaf, Koule
Orders fjviAthe distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Simirt Gcfre, Court-ftrai-t, Boston.
jjf" Two or thre.. tjooJ Olafi inak-rJ are Want
ed at the above works; fijeh as can produce rs
commendatioas for good behavior, may br lure ol
eciploy, by appl,cation to Mr. George L. Lindt, at
the works. Men without lannlies will be pre
ferred However unacquainted with tfeemethed
of reikking Crown Window Glass, they wi'.l meet
with ths fame es^ouragemem.
Bo' 1 on . laiiuiiry'l6 I —lttwfcw
For. iale or to be let on g#ound
rent,
A 'valuable Ltt if Grtur. J ; '
SITUA !'f. on the north-cast corner of Wal
nut and Fifth street*, fr nting the State-
House square This lot ts fi'ty-one feet front
en V. alilut ftieet, ar.d one h'judred and thirteen j
fee t and an half on Fifth ltreet ; there are at
present two small two flory br'.ck houlea, and a
number cf fmatl tenements thereon.
' A If), for Sale, t
Two three story Brick Houses '
With convenient ftnres, wharf, &e. fi'.uatr «n I
Water l}re*t, between Mulberry an ] Saflafras '
Streete, containing in fiont on Water flreet sis- e
ty-Four feet, and containing that breadth call- '
ward ninety-five feet, the* widening ta the c ,
fouih thirteen feet lix i»ches. These houses {
have the convenience of a publ'c alley adj in-
Ing «n the north fide, and area very defirabiefit- r
nation for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others t
who may hive occalicn for storage cf goods.
This property will be fold on very reafcnable r
terras ra(h. For further irforrnition apply si
to the printer. '
•» u >' !'• gtkwtf
FOR SALE, »r
William Priestman,
i» So. If, Seuth Fifth-£lre ,'t, next doqrte th» War '
Ofjce, ■ •
A large aHortmeW of Silver Watches
Time Keeper, by Arsold
2 G )IJ Watch, by Mudgde and 1 "utton
Ditto, Elhcoit
Dit'«, H»lu.ci>
Double barrellod Gun, Mottir.ier
Bittu, Patker
P:-ir Pistol', Kaublcy
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Two groce Watch Dials, and
Some gold Watch Hani's
1 Ready money giver\ for any quir.tity of .il
ver or other watcher. march t— *6t
THE Subscriber informs thole
to whom he is indebted, that a person will
attend every day, Sunday* excepted, uqtil the ift
of April PfXt, from the hours of 10 o'clock in the
1 morning till 1 o'cioek in the afternoon, at the house •
formerly «f:ctip;ed by him in ChelAnt-flreet, for
the putpole of ihcwingall books, papers aad let.
ters pall comn:-rcial tranfa&ions to
such of his creditor? is may thiuk proper to attend
and examine them.
JAMES GREENJLEAF.
march 1. eoti. \
Thick Medium Paper,
! fjitihle for copptr-plate printing
Engl fa and American WRITING PAPE3.
PARCHMENT and VELLUM
For Sale by
Jafiph and James Crulfiiini,
v No. 17, High-street.
mar'h 3. *eo3t
~~YO~IeT, ""
And poffeflion given the ill April next,
The House No. 258 High-street,
At present occupied by P. Bvtlek, Esq.
Applyto
jEdward Shoemaker,
No. Ia 7, High street.
February 24 eod3w
NOTICE.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shel
ly , of Oxted Cottage, in the Cousty of
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spinller, or her alligns,
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred stock of
the United States, was loft in the (hip Peggy,
Capt. Hycr. bound from Philadelphia to London
ia the year 1796. The (uVfcriher, the said Han
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treafsry of
the United States, lor a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. law6w.
OVAL BOTTLESr "
Quart and half gallon in crates— jnd a quaati
ty of Claret Boflles »f a right fize—F«r sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
Jinuary 11 3taw6w. "
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
"TTTILL commence drawing Monday, the lath
V\'—rarrt." xicttets n>r*SaTe In this Lottery, at
Seven Dollan, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-ftreet—
-1 ickets in the Schuylk.ll Bridge Lottery, at Ten
PtUars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City of Waffiing
ton, No 11. and Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be bad in moft'of the Latte
ries authorised I>y law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bafinefsef a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securitiee, .
difcosMting EJls and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN. J
November tj. .$
French Circulating Library.
JOVEPH E. G, M. De La GRANGE,
No. ris Walnut ftr«et,
INFORMS thofti who wiflj to recur to the only
meant of fceeotaing perfeA in the Frenth Lan
p«age,that he ha? jud opened his I ibkart, corv-
Ufting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the btll cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftrudion, or
sure, Ihe conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be fceu at every book-fclier\>
m town.
n. b. All tranflatioßs from and into the French,
Bngliih and Spanish Languages, eiCecucei. with ao
curac> and difpatcb. eom nm>. 15.
Pril on Manufa£tory..
POR SALE,
AtthePrifon of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all fixes, from 3dy to :ody (
Flooring Brads, Springs, saddle and card Tails t
Oakum and chipped Logwrod (
Shoefnakeis an 1 Sadltrs Thread f
—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables, S
tomb and hea Itoncs, hearths. chimney pieces, C
plat'orms, flabs.lacia, window iieaii, liUs c . J
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a dillance, UireAcd to Dauiel Tho
mas, ag;ent for the pcifon, will be attended to.
Decern' » r 26. mth6m c
Lately Published, c,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, earner of *
Second and Chefnut it reefs,
(Price 3 Btie of a dollar) g
Cbftr vat ions on certain Documents -
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796," n
In which the cha*c«.ol spxcvlation aeiiaft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
L>te SiCRXTAav of the TatASVRv, ii FULLY
REFUTED. F
WRITTEN Err HIMSELF.
This publication presents a corcife ftatemtnt of
the base meacs praaifed by the Jacobins of the
United State* to asperse the chara&ers cf thole
persons who are considered as holiile their difor
panizing fchehies. It also contains the correfpton
dence between Mr. Hamilton am) Messrs. Monroe, '
Mihlenburg and Venable, on the fubjeift of the
documents aforefaid, and a f-r e» of letters from
James Reynolds and his Wife to Mr Hamilton,
proving beyond the poffihility of a doubt, that the
eonneilion between him and Reynolds was the re
fultof a daring coufpiracy on the part of the iac
ter and his aflociatet to extort money.
£V A difconrit of one third from the retail
price will he made in favor of wholefnle purcha
frrs, for CASH. Order? to be addrelLd ta i.l;
Yoo n 0
February 9.
term of Co partnerfbip hrtweui the fuk-
I J. fcribers, trading under th Srmj i John Mi!«
kr, ju i.anj Go. expiresthis dav, by mutual
■ content wiH nof b * renewed* The debts and con
cern* of the feme will be fettled by John Wilier,
; Jim. to whom all t'nofe indebted to thepartnerihip,
are earneilly requeue.? to make pay meet to, wi. fa-
Oat dcliy.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
FrVritary •»'!
LAND!NG,
From on board the Ship S.uir, front
Calcutta,
AKD rOR SAL BY TUX SVBSC Rll IK ,
i6co bags prime Sugar,
B©o do. GiAgcr
30 bales low priced »>ioce Goodi*
John h(liller, Jun,
march 3 . 5
~~ FOR SALE, »r
John Miller, jun.
8, Chtfnua-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AKDKOST WHICH ARE—
Cur;ah» Vlanwodins
Baitas ' Sann.ts
Guzzenas randa Coflaej
Guzziei Enie.-tics
Blue Cloths Calicaes
Palnmpoors Rorrafi Handkerchiefs
Araongft then are a great proportion of Cm aiv
nufaitme. of P*;n*.
Britifk Dry Goods,
A «. S •,
Forty puncheons ai proof Sue.
February 19. g
Alex. J. Miller if James Davis,
Havftig entered into pirtuerft.ip under the firm ol
Alexander J. Miller iff Co.
INFORM their frieodsin town and country, that
th.y have opened a WhoJefcle Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South front Sfrcct, Philadelphia ; whet*
they now have, and intend kcaeping a general a(
faatmtnt of India, German, Irijb, fftneb and Br?
lijb Manufactures for sale, on advantageous term*"'
for eafh or a short creait.
February 19 ' ftf
* Landing
From »n board the Snow Maria, from C»pOf
hagtn,
A few Tons Russia Clean Hemp
3 o pieces Ravens Duck
450 pieces RufSa Sheeting
<2OO bolts Russia Duck, and
A quantity of ,: wedes Iron
For Salr ky
JOSEPH ANTHONY" bf Co.
Who Lave on Hand,
ift and ad proof Bourdeaux Brandy
4th procf Spanish ditto
• New-England Rum
Particular Madeirl winc 5n p, pw
London Market 5 Md C ** , •
Old Claret in Cafca
•4 Irfidb. Coffee just arrived
Best Boston Beef in barrel*
Mackrell in do.
Halifax Salmon in do.
A small invoice of Rhode Island Cheefc
Spermaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. x, i, 3, Boflon Sail Duck
Ruflia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glass Wart.
March %. <j, w
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Mndins, being the
r»ains of the fliip India's last cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fined particular Madeira wins (
of the vintage of 1795.
Mordecai Lewis,
February 19 dzw
FOR SALE,
IV the subscribers, No. 2i, Penn-ftre»t,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Cuufjling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflae* Punjum Cloths
Sanalis Gu7zeydo.
Humhums Charconna Oorea
Blue Clcth Tanjsbs
Ch:ntz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoody* Cherks
Miharagonges Patna HUfs.
Ginghams Mulmu tkj.
Guzzenas Bandannoej
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa RomaU
Salpatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Komals Persians of various col,
Mock Pulicats
aoo tons §tTGAR
9®,c00 lb PF.PFER.
Hillings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious ft«re th f north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours
Peh-iiiry jj. j t C
Hylon and Young Hylon Tea.
A few cliefts of excellent quality, for'fale, corti
n?r of Second and Pine streets Dsc 26 eotf "
Landing this day^
From on boindths febooner Two Friend, Dan
itflCrawley, Mjfttr,
XDhhds. and; T, • n rr* «■
ri pipes 5 J RUM,
FOR S ALII BY
George tiffimer & Son.
nouember 9.
KOSS it SIMS ON, '
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a qusntit.y of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in Lags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincsnf<, C RSM.
•r.d B-"»gal j
"too caiks RICE, ?nd
A parcel of ihip iailding RED C£JJAR
OA. if. t
5&*K
, Atf XLiLCONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FOREIGN INTERCOURSE.
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY Z9.
Mr.CoiT said, that he had' been furpriz
cd at the length of the present discussion ;
hut fat's surprize abated, when he recoll*£ted
that it li:?d been enftomary for gcntlemcn at
every fefiion to go into a philippic against
the Executive and executive measures. The
usual occasion had been the answer to the
President's speech; but as that this session
had gone off fnaoathly, without any thing
of this kind, it seemed as if the present mo
tion had heen intended for the purpose.
Id the course of the present debate, both
the bill and the amendment had almost been
loft fight of. Indeed, so foreign had the de
bate been from the fubjefl, that he had
thought of moving to have had the speech
of the gentleman from Virginia printed and
laid upon the table, as that seemed tp have
been the firbjeft of discussion Mr. C. said
he vviftild rmke a few observations on the bill
•nd the proposed amendment, and then take
some notice of what appeared to be foreign
to the fubjedV.
This bill,. Mr. C. said, was in the fame
flyle as the former law; the f?(3ion to whieh
the amendment was offered, was exactly in
the fame words. The amendment proposed
ministers at London and Paris should have
the fame salary as heretofore, and that all
others should not have more than half the
sum. Perhaps the style and expences of liv
ing might be lower at other coutts; if so,
it ought to have been so slated, but nothing
had been said on this The style of
the bill was of a kind which he did not ap
prove. It was deferable that the salaries of
all officers should be fixed by law; but as
when this law passed, it was not known t
what would be a proper diftindion to make i
in the salaries of ministers to different places, ■
it was left to the discretion of the President, j
limiting him as to the extent. It was un- j
pleasant to the President to allow alefs sum ;
to one minirter than he allowed to another ; i
and the consequence had been that all had
been allowed the highest sum allowed by law; j
but as he supposed the fame reafoos existed
which caused the law to be passed in this ;
wajy at firft, he saw no reason for altwing
it. V j
Thtre conld be no doubt as to the pow
er ot the house to fix the salaries of minif
tein; and if there w«-re lufficient rcafoss why
the ministers at PanVand London have larg
er salaries than ihoft at other courts, no
donftitutional qtiellipn could arise 3s to the
power <>{ the house to come to such a deci
£o.n,
P.»t the gentleman from Virginia seemed
'to have an olifctt which was not the oflenfi- 1
ble one, as he fnpported his .imcndmeut, by '
argument* perftttly inapplicable to it. Tin
objeft seemed to be, to ptevtnt the fending 1
rf ministers of a certain grade, to any but 1
the <soiivts os-London and Paris. Granting '
that the house had the power of dettrmrn- '
ing this question, they would not do it with' 1
out information. The gentleman from Vir
ginia, the gentleman from Tennessee, and '
o 'ntrs fay that we have no need of a minis- 1
ti • " Berlin. What authority tfae-y had for 1
the a union he knew ;he supposed the
President had more complete knowledge on 1
the fu'. je£t than they, and he has said the '
contrary by the appointment. It was, in
deed, idle to speak upon a fubjeft on which '
they neither had, nor could have fufisient :
information 1
It, appeared to him that the gentleman 1
frrm Virginia had not attended to : materi- 1
al part of theConfcitution. Much had been I
fa d about the check which one department
■of government had over another; but there
•was one consideration not attended to. By '
the constitution, it appeared that the feverai 1
departments originated from the fame fotirce „
they were all equally the agents of the 1
people. One department had a right to °
challenge the fame confidence from their .
eoirftituents as the other—no one had the j'
excliifive confidence of the people. And if j'
there was not a mutual confidence betwixt
the different branches of government, no-
thing but wrangling and disorder would be
the consequence. *
If the President of the United States was r<
possessed of patronage, that hoife did'not &
give it to him, nor could they take it away. "
Whether thepeople had given him too much
or too little, was no question before them. u
As to the discretion of appointing to office ' e
it was a delicate fubjfc&, aud he wished it !)
had not been touched; but, as it had been
handled, and talked about, it might as well h
be talked about freely. He had been so m
unaccustomed to any thing like a political ' 1:
creed, that he had never thought any was a
doptedby the Executive. But he foundit was
too true that certain opinions were held in
this country, which made it necessary fer m
the President to eflquir* into the opinious of
persons who were to take part in the cxecu- w
tion ef government. Certain opinions had ci
been brotched as held by many perfuns of °'
this country} he did not knew, however,i w
that they were held by any. He would ftatc
what the opinions were to which he alluded.
Mr. C. then read the folic wing extract lt
[which it will be recollefi*d, is from a let
ter said to be written by a person high in of. g<
sice in this government to Mr. Mazzci, at m
Madrid.]
" That our political fituatinn is prodigi- b
• ufly changed Jtnce a fen, years pafi—Tkat rr
infttad of that noble love of liberty, and that it
republican government, which carried us b
through the dangers of the war, an Anglo, m
Monarchic, ariltocralic party has ariftn ol
their avowed objeft being to impose upon us h
tbe substance, as they havu already given us p!
the form of the British government : That ti
nererthtjefs the principal body of our citi ai
atns remain faithful to republican principles* h
our proprietors of lands Lang friendly to tl
f'iofe principles, as also the mal's of men of
taUnti. n
™ That the rejfjtlicttni in the United Stater
' have against them, the Exesutive and judt
! cial power—all the officers of government,
S. all w ho are seeking offices—all timid men,
who prefer the calm of defpotrfm to the tem
pestuous fe» of Lib«,rty—the British mer
chants, and the Americans, who trade on
British capitals—the fpeeulators -persons
z ' ' intercfled in the ban* and the public funds.
That these establishments mere invented
with views of corruption, and to aflimilate
" . as to the British model in its eorrtipt parts.
j That it would give arihonej} man * fever to
1C hear of the apostates who have embraced
le these heretics '.—That they are men who were
n Solomons in council and Sampsons in com
bat, but whose haif has been cut off by the
whore of England.
7 hat these men wifbed to wrest from tbi peo
ple of America that liberty which thsy have
n obtained by so much labor and . peril; but
' that the repuklicatit would preserve it.
That the mafsof weight and riches in the
j republicant is so powerful, that they have no
thing to fear from any attempt against them
, by force.
.. J That it is fufficient that they guard then
, fe/vei, and"that they break the Lilliputian
e ties by which these eqnfpiraton have bou.nd
n them ill the firft slumbers which fucceedtd
their labors. '
That in Jhort it it fujjicieat that, the republi
can.t arrefl the progress of that system of in
j gratitride and injnftice towards France,
which these confpiraten have been DMtluirig,
j with a view to alienate the people of America
from France, and to bring them under Bri
tish influence."
Far be it from me, said Mr. C. to charge
' fentimentsof this kind to any gentleman of
f th
is house ; he had hoped there had been j
none such in Atnerica. But evidence
P was too ttrong that a fort of political en
thusiasm existed which seemed to take to
itfelf excliifive republicam'fm ; wVich em
braced sentiments too much like those which
[he had cited. He would ask the gentle
' ; man from Virginia, whether, if the Prefi- i
' dentcf the United States supposed there
' "ere persons who entertained sentiments |
| like these, he ought to appoint such per- ,
ions to office ? That gentleman must can- j
didly answer No.— It would argue extreme j
fol'y to do so, as nothing but treason and |
infurre&ion would be the confeqiitnee of t
such epinions. For, if the present gev ,
; ernmcnt be holtile to the interests of the j
i country, and be planning away its liberties, t
it would ccu&ioly be the duty of every hon- .
eft citizen to use his efforts to destroy it. j
He hoped, however, these sentiments were
not harbored !*y any ; he should have plea- '
sure in hearing the gentleman from Virgin- ;
ia disavow them. But certainly if the Pre- ]
fident of the United States believed that t
fitch sentiments were held, he, was fully jufl
ified in determining not to appoint to office r
persons Koldiug them. '
Mr. S. Smith rose to move an amend- (,
merit to the amendment ©f the gentleman jj
from Vilginia, which he hoped he would v
consent to, viz. to add a> a place a
to which miriifters sent should have a salary
us 9,000 duilarv. : *
[Mr. Nicholas was not in his place, and t
therefore could not consent to this amend- e
mert. It of course became the fubjtft of f,
debate.]
Mr. J. Williams supposed gentlemen q
opposed to the original amendment, would c
also be oppofe(l to this. ;* t
Mr. Harper fajd there not be a 0
more nugatory amendment than this. No- a
body would objeft, he supposed, to a min
ister plfnipotenti»y for Spain ; but it was t ]
to the interfering in the business at all that" t ,
the objttiionlay, as it went to abridge the t |
power of the Prcfidynt.
Mr. S. Smith said the amendment which t(
he had proposed, was a simple amendment t(
to the bill, without having any reference to p
the right of the President. I
Mr. LtviNGSTON said the gentleman f r
trom S. Caroling, had forgotten the objedt ;
| of his colleague (Mr. Pinckney) who had
said he wiftied to get rid of ourfareign min
isters as soon as poflible, and his great ob- (,
je&ion to tne present amendment was, that n ,
by it the mim'fter plenipotentiary was with- t(
drawn from Spain.
the amendment of tire gentleman from
Maryland was carried, therefore, it would \ y
remove ,that objeftion ; and the vote of that f,,
gentleman in favor of the prspofed reduc
tiori. would be of considerable cpnfequence. f u
Mr. Rutlidoe said the gentleman last j n
up had mis-dated the sentiments of his col- gl
league. His colleague had, for some time,
been too much indisposed ta attend his dn
ty in the ho' fe ; but be had told him that a ,
his sentiments on this fubje& had been much w
mifrcprefented. He believed his colleague
had said, that, in orderly times, it would f p
be well to lessen ovir foreign cpmicciions— e „
not that he would do so. at. all events ; and - w
in order to shew the impropriety of the a- jr,
mendment of the gentleman from Virginia, et ]
he instanced Spain, with whom, he said it ; B ,
was probable negociations might now be 1
carrying on, and that .therefore to recall .w
our minrSer from thence might be attended i: e
with bad consequences.
Mr. LmiiGSTON replied he had under- r_
lood Mr. Pinckney to fay what he had sta
ted. P c
.. ' mi
Mr. Dayton (thefpeaker) said, if the cu
geHtleraan from Maryland h*d offered an a- tie
mendment to the speech, firft or second of fts
the gentleman from Virginia, it might have gi
been proper, as he thought them liable to a- fir
mendment m many parts. As to the bill gc
itfelf, or the amendment, they had long Rl
been wit of fight. It was not the letter of
"t the amendment, but its spirit th?t was ex
objetted to ; but if he was to decide at s&l, 01
he would cn-tainly dispense with this com- w;
p.imentary interference with the nation men- in
tinned fconerthan with any other; but if efl
any new amendment was brought forward,
he hoped it would be to the speech, and not la
tne bill. „ w
Mr. Otis was opposed to this amend- 01
«ncn» on prmtiplo; but h« c«uld not fay V
■j v it!) the gentleman last up that b? fiior.U be
i- less inclined to compliment. Spain with a
t miuifter pleaip'tfeiti* l ' fh«i> any other ; but
~ as this was no birfnefs of theirs, he hoped
i- the amendment would h&tejcfted.
r- Mr. Nichola.s (having come in) is<d he
n had vo objection to the sdimfTion n this a
,s mendment to his motian, if it would ac
i. commodate auy gentleman of thecommit
e The amendment was of eourfe admitted.
I. Mr. S. SMITH said, he understood the
0 gentleman from S.Carolina (Mr. Pinekney)
as fayiiig. that in time of profound peace,
e it would be proper to withdraw all our
foreign intercourse, as it could do little good,
e and might do much harm. If he was of the
fame" opipion with that gentleman that there
would ever-be au inclination in fhis govern
e mcnt to do a way all bur foreign intercourse
1 he fWuld no'i fee cfcfirous of carrying this
amendment ; but as this was not the cafe,
' e he wished to put the business upon a stable
foundation, by fixing the salaries of our
" ministers, as was the cafe it the governments
of Europe. The L Prefident had 40,000 dol
" lari appropriated for foreign intercourse,
1 leaving to him to give ministers what he
| pleafcd, so that it did not exceed the sums
* fpeeified in the aiS. 'J'he confcquence was,
that, though the expence and style of living
" was very different ip different countries, he
■ allowed to all the highett sum. He wished
> therefore, that at the courts of London,
• Paris and Madrid, our ministers fhoald re
-1 ceive filch an allowance' as sHould enable
" them to live in the style which was necessary
there ; but he believed a much lets allowance
; would be fufficient at the courts of Berlin
and Lisbon. He believed one half the sum
1 would there be fufficient. A regulation of
: this kind would relieve the President from
his present fituatioa, in which be found it
' unpleasant to make any discrimination be
■ twixt minifteri sent tt different countries,
1 If the prefeni difcuffian had been confined
to the law the question might have
been determined long ftnee ; but the gen
tleman from Virginia had introduced other
' fubjeits, and it iad been found necessary to
reply to theffl« His colfeague (Mr. Graik)
said that gefttlein en might fay they were
fpcaking to the galleries, or not, he main
. tnined they all spoke to the public, and
that the public would determine whose fea
timeota were right. His colleague was,
however, mistaken in one thing, viz. that
the executive had a right to make treaties
and appoint ministers, and that that house ,
had no right to toufiderthc propriety of ap- '■
propriating for them ; and in faying that ;
this question had been decided several times !
in this way, particularly in the ease of the I
British treaty and the frigates. He had to- I
ted for both these measures ; but he never
believed that the executive could appoint as
many ministers, or negociate as many trea
ties, as he pleased, and that that house would
be bound to carry them into effeA. He
knew he had a right to do both ; but if he
west to au exccfs in either, that house had
right to ckeek him by withholding ap
propriations, and would do it. There had
..
trary, but there - had been several votes to
eftablilh the principle which he contended
for. Upon the call for papers in the discus
sion on the British treaty, which was a
question involving the right of the house to
enquire into the propriety of the measure,
the question was carried 62 to 37. But in
order that this might not be mistaken here
after, the house came to another rcfolution, .
it) which it was expressly stated, that though
tb« house claimed no agency in making of
treaties, that they had a right so judge of 1
the expediency orinexperliency of carrying 1
them into effeit, which was carried by 57
to 35. And when the treaty itfelf was de- 1
termined to be carried into effect, it was ex- 1
prefsly upon the expediency of the measure. I
If gentlemen were not fatisfied of this right I
from the constitution, he trusted they Would I
allow that these votes had put the matter 1
beyond doubt. s
Thus much to shew that his colleague 1
had been mistaken on this point. Gentle- t
men, Mr. S said, were sent to that house
to do their duty ; and it was not to be sup- f
posed, hecaufe they had the power of Jlop- ]
ping the wheels of government, that the.y c
would do so ; for, however they might dif- 1
;er in opinion cm the ftihjeCks which came c
before them, they would certainly agree in i r
fupporti'ng the government. Indeed no i
injtance could be adduced, in which this dif. t
eretionary power had beenabufed. 1;
His colleague had fa.d that party did ex- a
ill both in that house, and Out of it. He h
agreed with him 5 said it was right, ' v
when a man went with a party to avow it. j t
Gentlemen had complained that members ' c
spoke to the galleries and to their conftitu-i d
Cnts, and not to the members within those 1;
walls ; vet they themselves did the fame.— a
For what else, he asked, could be intend- p
ed when gentlemen charged others with be- 1 r<
ing dforganizcts and with intentions of o- g
■vertuming the government ? When they said S
this, tbey did not believe it ; bu| they be- 1 w
lieved it would pleaie their coniftituents to ' tl
hear that they had thus (aid. But could it I
for a moment be credited, that men of pro- e:
perty would come there to fst the govern- u
ment afloat, and by that means render infe- w
cure property of every kind ? These reflec- c<
tions were meaut to apply to the southern ai
A?tes, an-d he believed particularly to Vir- ci
ginia ; but let gentlemen fliew one infurrec- 'P
tion or violent Oppolition to any measure of n
government in that quarter. They could =
not do it ; for tho' the people in the state
of Virginia were general.y opposed to the
excise law, yet, when it had passed, the
oppoCtian ceafcd; and he believed there f,
was not a state in the union, besides thai,
in which that law was honeHly carried into
effedl. _
When the infurre&ion against the excise
law took placeln this state, the citizens of
which quarter of the United States turned /
out more readily than these of the state of K
V irginia, armed and accoutred by that state 01
e to quell the disorder ? Vet they were calle
a dif organiser s. He himfelf was not arraii
it of these refleflions—they never touche
d him; but he thought they were dilhonour
able to tiff Legislature of the Union,
e Gentlemen were in the habit of fpeakinj
1- to the galleries, of imported df Srines, refer
ring to a gentleman in that honfe. whose a
- bjlities they feared. What could they meai
by such inlinuations, if not to please theii
I. constituents ?He himfelf had thought, that
e though a.man was not a native of this coun
try, if he went through the revolution, ht
was an American as much as a native, a,s ht
r was one from the commencement of our in
dependence ; and before that time, the)
p were all British fubje&s. 8.-fides this ar
e gument cuts both ways, as there were gen
tlemen in the house of this description of
c very different opinions.
s Mr. S. believed heretofore, that all the
citizens of the United States, were equally
' e entitled to the favours of the Executive.
r He had believed that uo refped had been
s paid to men of any particular opinion ; but
they had now been told, both out of doors
and in that house, that all persons who did
not think precifcly with thi executive were
~ to be exchided from office. If this was a
faft, the patronage consequent tpon ap
r pomtments to office, might be improperly
| applied. He hoped this was not so, and
I that the President was better informed with
refpedt to his duty, and could not believe
| what gentlemen had so confidently asserted
. as he saw men in office who had always been
, friends of the federal government, as well
. as those who opposed its adoption.
Mr. S. concluded by faying, tftat gentle
men were fond of calling themselves the sup
- porters of government, but he wished them
to be convinced thtt men who differed from
them in opinion, were equally its friends
a«d supporters with them.
(Debate to le cntinued.)
'i
TUlSDAY—march 6.
The bill fffiividing the means of inter
course with' foreign natiou3, was read the
third time and pafTc;(3.
The Speakh laid before the house a
communication from the fecretacy of the
treasury, inclosing a statement of the .ex
ports of "the United States from Oftober 1,
17961 to Sept 30, 1797, was or
dered to be printed.
Mr. D. Foster made a report on the
petition of joftua Kellett, who prayed for
j compenfatioti on account of a certificate
j which was loft. They report, if the fa&
, be as stated, that there is no necessity for
! legislative interference. The petition was
i afterwards withdrawn.
I Mr. Recd presented a petition fro* l '***'
izens of Bridgwater- "Wiallachufetts,
praying an alteration ia the poll roads,
which was referred to the committee on
poft-offices and ppft-roads.
A message was received from the senate.
with a bill which had originated in that
house, for the amicable settlement of the
claims of Georgia, aod for the eftablilh
ment of a government in the Miffifippi ter
limrv. whiqh was read and referred to the
fame committet-ro-whom fias beeirTcfi:p*d
the fubjeft of the Natchez country.
Mr. Sitgreaves moved tha| the com
mittee of the whole on the state of the U
nion be discharged from the farther jconfid :
eratisn of the message of, the President of
the United States, of yefterda£, with the
documents accompanying it, and that they
be referred to the feledt committee to con
sider the means for the protc£tM>n and de
fence of the country, as they had already
measures relative to this fubje& upder con
fideratioh.— Agreed.
Mr. Livi ngston moved the order of 1
the day on the bill fupplementsiry to the aft
for c.ftablifhing the judiciary of the United ;
States ; but after some objeftions from the !
members from Connecticut (the bill is in
tended to provide fbi a trial now pending
betwixt citizens of the states of New-York
and Conneftieut, allowing a jury to be ta
ken from a state uniatertfted ia the cause)'
the fubjeifi was postponed for 3 week.
.A nother message was received fr.om the
senate, informing the house that they Lad
passed the bill for erefting a light-bouse and
certain buoys ; and also the bill far the re
lief of the widows and orphans of certain
deceased officers and soldiers, botfi with a-
I mertdmenu. •
Mr. Harper then called for the order of
the day on the bill supplementary to the a£t
laying a duty on (tamped vellum, parchment
and paper ; which being consented to, the
| house resolved itfelf into a committee of the
' whole on the fubjedt ; when it was agreed
| to.allow a discount of per cent, to'all pur
-1 chafers of stamps, abpve the value of ten
dollars, and also to repeal, that part of the
law which imposes a duty upon debentures,
and to enaft in its plaee, that one quarter
per cent, be added to the one per cent, al
ready retained from drawbacks allowed on
goods imported. If was proposed by Mr.
S. Smith to exclude «11 antes payable at or
within sixty days from duty, and to confine
the dutv to all bills of lading to ten cents.
It was also proposed by Mr. J. Williams to
exclude from duty all bonds bills or notes
under fifty dollars. All these amendments
were negatived by great majorities. The.
committee then rose, the houte agreed t© the
amendments, and the bill was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading to-morrow.-
A Iketit} of the debate on thja biil in our
■"■ext. Adjourned.
To Let, •
About 10 acres if jjromid, with a good hdufe,
garden, (Üblt-s, &c. 4.1 1 miles ircm town
Immediate tioffeflion tray be had.
PETER BLIGHT.
February iy • *§iot
TO RENT,
A good three story House,
TWO rooms on each flo<r, with a convVnien*
Kitchen— in Fror.t, South-ftreet. Enquire
of tht Vriiter. iesicli 3
d ~i:OREIGN itir£LLfcENc<
rd
r- : VIENNA, November 4.
Loft and Gain to the House of Auftri
g | the late treaty with France :
r- |. 1 .'-uflrii cedes ti> France the 10 ci
1- lie prov uces of the low countries, con
n 1 '"S .'53 'q*'< lre niiles, 2,5 to,coo inhabitants
r yielding a neat revenue of 5,175,000. Ge»
j florins, beCdes paying 3 millions jntereft
I capital of 9 j milncnsaccrtjingfromloinscon:
ed and mortgaged upon the country. The
e peror maintained in the Low Countries
e time of peace, a force of 13,240 men, wa 1
. tablifliment 24,855.
1. He cedes Auflrian Lombardv ami
dutchy"of Mantua ; 192 square mil« 9, 1,144
inhabitants, 3,500,000 florins. Uefidcs ttvs
" venue, the Lombard government support
f military peace eftablilhment of 4580 men, an
war 1D,397.
e 3. The Brifgau, 59 fq«are miles, 155,
inhabitants, 200,000 florins.
Total Cefßon —784 square miles, 3,849,
inhabitants, 6,975,000 florins.
1 Franee cedes to Austria, Venice and its la
.he Paduan, the Polefiu, the part of the V
> iiefe beyond the Adige, the Vkent », the n
1 ket tiwc of Trivefo, the Belliinel'e, Iliria,
short, two thirds of the Venetian polTeflion!
5 Italy, presenting io extent, population and
i venues, 416 i-i square miles, 1,640,00 inha
ants; andDalmatia, H4l-3 square miles, 1
33i inhabitants, 5,000, co florins.
; Recapitulation. Aullria cedes 784 fqu
1 miles, {,849,188 inhabitants, 6,975,00* flor
France cedes te Auftra, 541 square mi
1,759,333 inhabitants, 5,000,000 florins.
Clear loft te Austria, 243 square miles, 2,0
855 inhabitants, 1,975,00s florins, ,
MILAN, November 4.
The 10th inft.is fixedfor the inftalmentaf 1
legiflativebody. T his islhe oath each memberre
take: —" I swear inviolable obedience to
conflitutioo, and eternal hatred to royally,
aristocrats, and oligarchies ; and I engage m
er to support a foreign yoke, in (I u comribi
with all my powers te the maintenance 3
prosperity of the republic."
The Cifalpins have just taken pofTjffioji
Brtfco-Parmigiano, situated in one of the ifiaj
ofthe Po, near Cremona, upon which'the co
of Parma has always formed pretentions.
> BASLE, November 11.
Since the arret of the dirfdlory conterni
Mr. Wickham, the demands ef the French j
verninent seem to multiply. They demand 1
recal of those who were banished merely on :
count of a<9s relative to the revolution. It
to be oblerved, that fevera'l of the jtidgmei
on these, bear a prphibttion to every ci'izen
ven to intercede in favour of the condemned.
| Immediately after, the direflorv required :
i Helvetic Body forthwith to receive as currt
' money the republican pieces of 5 francs. Th<
to forbid every Swiss officer formerly in the f
vice of France to continue to wear the ore
of military merit iuppreJTed by the French
a»d thjt th«s pe-fciwrtoii be extended in t
-L<Hr«rfemtory. "It might be expedled" i
the directory, " that the eldest daughter of
ben* would not hesitate to difeird thu b><!
of fiavery and servitude, unworthy the d»fc«
i dantsof William Tell, which they ought nei
to have fullered."
PARIS, November 41.
Buonaparte has answered, in a mot energi
Ic manner, a deputation of the confiitutiol
circle of the city ot Milan, which came to 1
proarh him refpefting tlie peace. " Not mc
the enemy ef royalists than of diforganjze:
j rays ilic: general; I am about fettirtg out i
France; I leave, yon the liberty of your repu
lie, with men to defend it, I will coi
i pose for you a legislative body of wife and ho
eft men. 'Tis yours to enjoy' the benefits of
revolution which has not cost you a Sngle drt
I of blood ; if ynu abuse it, I will return with tl
rapidity of of rhe eagle "to reduce and punilh yo:
In the meantime remember you are altoeeth
a conquered country ; I am here the Irgiflati.
['he executive too it fcernsj power, and voi
heads shall, fall At the least troufyle-or disorder (
which you (hall be the authors. "
The Prince of Pe ce continues to excrcife i
Madrid lis ail powerful influence. He hasju
recalled the Marquis del C rnpo, ambaflado
from Spain to the French rcpu' ir, arid replace
him by the Count de Cabarrus, father of raadai
I allien. Other dilgraces, and other promt
tions, have taken plage at Madrid. Thccred,
of France is greater than ever. It i*tbe Print
I face and M. Cabarrus who govern tha
kingdom. I _
It appears that the emigration of the Ven«
'ians is considerable, and that the treaty of Cam
po Formio will produce the fame confeqr.rnce
to Venice, that the cdifl of Nantz did to franee
he political hatred of the Venetians again!! th
Auflrians is equal to the religious hatred tha
thekoman Catholics vowedagainft thelluguenp
parcy. It will not then'be furprifing.lf a grea
part of the inhabitants of Venice and the Ter
ra I'irma, of Iftria and Dalmatia, inllead off'A
mitting to the dominion of Aullria, Ihould pro
fit of the article of the treaty
November 29.
nFFiciAL article. The King of Pruffi
died the 26 Brumairc, at 9 in the morning, 1
his chateau of Potfdim.
December 1. ' ' 'j
An upholsterer has been arrested and sent
the Temple, for casing up and fending to L
oiis, bufls of the late king and queen, with tl
attributes of reyalty.
December 6.
It is said, that Paul I. of Rufiia is deposed 1
account of madness.
It is said, that a new royal conspiracy is c
the point of being discovered ; others fay the
it is an anarchical conspiracy.
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED, Dec 14
Lecouteulx reported on the refolntion relati'i
to the liquidation of the public debt, aod tlrt
mode of paying the two thirds. Before emct'
ing into theexamination of the refolntion, 1*
compared the present state of the finances wlft
'that ofthe ancient regimen. Formerly, ft*''
he, according-to the calcu fat ions of M. Necks,
which bo one accuses of exaggeration- each® - !
dividual, on an average, piid in (imee of peac*'
; 18 livres a head—while, at t]ieprefent day,**',
ing to the augmentation ofterritory, t *7'«'
in time of war, only 183-4 livres. He*J tr '
wards corhpaVed our lii-.ances with thofeVr.nf
l.iml. He fwirntl that in England each yditiiiT'
al, cn an average, p»y? 46 iivres. .In
expencesof England will amount to e,,e fh*"'
faiid ardsighlymilliousanvording budget
presented by Mr. Pitt, —which giv 3 diffrrcsce
of 692 millions between the ccr' rl hutions of
Franc e and thcTe of Englaad. /
Lcccuteu'x dtmonftrated calculation!,
that after paying all the expencei, tM*
regained to France, withy increasing thei»>-
pofitirns, a fufficiencv 'he re«iainir.(
IhirH of the publie d'j» J " d the arrearage
which are due. /■BRUSSELS, TfrtTew>Ver tj.
Letters from Wefrl nfTert, that it had Seen a
queftinn whether to disperse the aniiv of u'ufcr
vitiou destined to cause to be in the
•erlb of Germauy,the line of neu'r.tlKv.and that
orders had even been given to the P iiflhn Ge
nerals for that ptirpofe. Bar t vtry thin? is
changed ai>ain : the Duke of T'runfwick fs to
return tn Mindin,!'r» » '.-lienrehe hat! jone ;
the Hanoverian General Walmnden-CimWof]
put 1 hfmfelf at "the at the contin
gent M that eleaorjte, which will be iiftreafed
V ithfeverjl repiments of cavalry and infantry •
th# reil of the Hahoveriah arnrv (r«e 3 tr> the
catf'-nments towar.'s the dijtchy of B. emen to
inrafion on that fide.
Gen. Angerau has just impoffd upon thecen
flared countries on the left fide of the Rhine,
aswell as upon thedutcyof Burg, anew con
trbntion of 8 million# of livrefi.
PARIS, January t.
r ltt minijlcn of Foreign Affairi to all the Di
plomatic Agents and Ccnpult of the French
Republic.
CITIZENS,
YOU are at this moment placed under
new circumstances: Your Republican sen
timents, and your patriotic efforts mutt take
aniithe* eourfe.
Of all tlie,coalefced powers against the li
berty of France, England is the only re
maining one with whom we have to fight.
She is our eternal enemy; we are preparing
a great expedition against her. The wishes
of the whole nation call loudly for this ar
mament. It is neccfl'ary that every person
employed by the gov.rmnent should now fe'.
eond the views and labours of the Directo
ry. All parties should join in that great
objeft—War tvith F.nglaad.
In this great undertaking, yon cannot,
yf>u ought not to remain inaftive ; you
'should, 011 the contrary, take an aitive and
decisive part in this euterprizc. You well
know that the diplomatic powtr, which is
terrible in the hand, of the British minister,
ba» for a long bee.i in a languishing
way ill ours. The Executive Diredtory are
mxious so give this department of govern
ment its futleft lustre and vigour. The
(eace concluded at Campo Formio, may be
onfidered as the dawn, and the Congress
t Ralladt will complete this defirablg ob
iS; you mult join in forwarding it.
You have, Citizens, without douht, each
you, formed a just idea of the greatness
, d force of the French Republic;—foreign
• know it, and it is needles* to recal to
ur minds that you represent the firft peo-
J if) Europe, a natiofl composed of 30
ilions of inhabitants, and whom aothing
«the continent eould refill.
{■low then is it possible that England, a
mtan , anf j st r ength
en in the time of monarchy—j° - t
jfible, I fay, that she has conftantjyoppo^
4, and even humiliated France? in
frr situation, and the idea of liberty, of
tich she vainly boasts, are not the only
jfons which hare given her thole advanta
s; it has been principally by the *ffe£t of
at diplomatic system which she follows:
it thfe strength is like the reft, it is easy
• conquer. Let us only look at their hifto
, frnce they firft meddled with the affairs
• Europe. '--T—.-r™ ... ; . ' iy-
Froteftot" Cromwell w»« the firft wlio
ive high tane to the diplomatic body, in
hich he was aided by the powerful pen by
ie celebrated Milton. He spoke t<» all
he cabinets of Eufope in a language of fe
;rity; aivd ever ft ace that period the court
f St. James has held the fame language,
lat language which at firft was nothing but
iie insolence of a fortunste usurper, has be
r>me the energetic and firm accents of a peo
le calling themselves free. Engaged in
long series of war*, during the reign of,
,ouis XIV., the otlvr powtTS of Europe
lought her extremely powerful, becaufc
ie called her ft If so—They fuffored them
lives to be astonished, and gave rtp, with
ut examination, 10 the pretensions of a
aurt which a£ted by threats. Soon after,
Var«ce, delivered up by a dull Prince, to a
t of corrupted Ministers, weakened by
felefs victories, and by alliances contrary
i her real interefls, reduced to the mrtll
tplorable state, France saw herfelf degra
»d to the fhameful neeeffity of trembling
,'fore the court of London. Strong in
lis illusion, more than by her own strength
ngland, 34 the end of every war, figured
itti eclat, and made what terms she pleaf
-lat the different peaces of Nimeguen, i* yf- '
ick, Utrecht, Aix-la-Chapelle, at the '
eaty of Paris, at the conferenees at Pil
t7, and in the subsequent affairs of our
volution.
It is this power, Citizens, which we must
rftrey; it is this Colossus which must be o
rturned.
It is absolutely necessary, Citizens, that
iu, en your fide, should attack with eou- '
ge the federative power of Britain, while, 1
on purs, will launch our armies on 1
eir territories, and expose to the eyes of '
onifhed Europe, the true secret of her
*ikaefs. I}i this view, the following are
t steps which you must follow: <
Let your conduit be in direct opposition
that of the envoys from the cabinet of I
tndon; hold faft to this rule, and do not <
vy one moment fr»m it—The cause which
:y have take is that us tyranny, mercan- i
• avarice, and a fhameful cruel machtave- 1
All their a&ions, all their views, (
rtheftampof this vicious origin. What <
ie reafen that England imitates Carthage? i
lat, but to make the neighboring nations
re dependant, and by an excess of am- 1
on, which disgraces humanity, forbids i
m, irider pain of death, to fbw, plant, r
ivate ir trade, or in fadt to do any thing I
whicl.often makes them meet with uui- I
al execation? Is it not this which tends a
their m»itime despotism ? Do c
tend to », e exclusive commerce of the
•Id ? Wha p, )wer ; n Europe can be so
id to its i&. re ft $f an( j t0 t }j e general :j
d, as not to vfj, f or t j lf extripafioo of f
horrible mono and t Q confine to E
.r little island thr. p r , ten d e( j despots, 1
, ought not to tf)e affair 3cf th . -
tiuent.
V» to you, Citizens, wb;ch you 1 j
fc&nd Is tf>at of ÜbeH y, philanthropy, gl*.
. 'y Thr or oF rud. % .obi.
e can.. £ho-.-d fill ardor in all yom
t actions. France h:s fuupjit by land far hei
. independence and her natural limits, and f«
5 Wl " fi g h , l -fa, uot for herfelf alone, but
' r° V' nc oe " n > ant! emancipate the world
; from tlie aridity of the Englift. London
. IS cr " n pared to Carthage France can bet
j ter be compared to Rome; but Rome was
. too ignorant of commerce and the arts ; she
: thought of nothing but the glory of con
> ouering the world ; Hie made war against
Carthage as a rival, not as a commercial peo
pie. France has more refpetftable motives
; for her warfare. It is not folcly the desire
of avenging the injuries of many ages r that
me how makes war against the British gov
ernment— It is for the interefl of Europe,
. and the cause of hamanHy, that (he wishes
Z to establish the liberty of the seas. History
offers nothing which can be put on a paral
lel with it ; and in this point of view, the
" people of all nations should join ut> in }-* y
ers, for the happy fnccefs of our arms.
e Anfwcr, citizens, answer with dignity to
the anguft duties of vour miflion; let the
pen and the voice of the French negociators
. second the courage and swords of their brave
. defenders.
t The more the agents of England are im
s periou?, proud and h;mghty, the more you
. ought to conduct yonrfelves with that rec
i titude, zeal and moderation which is the
. trait of true dignity.
Watch all their movements ; hinder them
t from forming some new plot against the re
public : follow them step by * step: follow
, them even into the secret tjecefles of their
i conclave,: feet put their retrenchments :be
1 ardent in discovering aod disconcerting their
1 ÜBderhand iutnguesf their calumnies, their
6 and those dreadful projects which
t they wish to hide under cover of thrirfecret
r agents. These wretches are fotmd, not on
: ly among onr open enemies, but also among
. onr nearest allies, in Jtaljr, in Spain, in the
Batavian republic, bdt even among ourselves
; —is the very bosom of France. Do not
; cease to oppose their influence: not by chi
canery and little stratagems, but |ay reason
able and' sage representations—yen will be
heard—the Executive directory will support
yeu. Often will you be obliged to use the
firm and decisive language of republicans to
the ministers of foreign courts ; let it be
forcible ; you wilt find in trie a supporter in
every tbing you can do agsinft the infernal
genius of the cabinet of London. Let U3
daily know your operations—your intelli
gence shall be noticed with care and attenti
on, and laid before the direftory. Yob cer
tainly would not wish that they should know
athet, hands what ought to come from
yours.
With regard to what concerns you,
personally, endeavour to love, esteem and
refpeA each nther. Do not infringe the laws
manners or cuftomsof the country i"n which
you reside ; but, in refpe&ing them, you 9
rnufl pay attention to republican manners
and cuftems. To the acknowledgement of
a trifling etiquette, join that political
franknefs and uwkj
has to the foul of virtue and senti
ment. Be careful to avoid a fault too com
mon in our days ; I mean that irascible and
noisy energy, which, in a diplomatic cha
racter, never can be regarded as a happy
quality. Measure all your steps, ind do net
forget that declamation is not strength <*f
argument.
I propose, citissens,to communicate more
regularly andfreqi. # tly than formerly, those
view* and ideas which your correfpoendncs
ma y f ' ! gg eft < Redouble your exaflitude.
The objeft of this circular letter is to form,
between all the diplomatic agents ef the
Frern h republic,an a&iveand zealous league
against the lafl enemy we have to con
quer, and thus accomplish the wishes of the
Directory. Make known to the whole
world, how little the Englifii government
is worthy of confidence. Such "is at this
time, your principal business. Negleft no
thing to obtain this grand ohjeft. You will
find, no doubt, numbcrlcfs difficulties which
must be overcome. Do not give way—To
do away all obstacles, count on the army of
England—Our country has its eyes on you.
In conforming yourfsves to the (piritof this
circular, you will find a sure support in the
union and wisdom of the Executive Direct
ory, and in the good services of the mini*
fter who writes this by order of <he Direct
ory.
PORTSMOUTH, Feb. 17.
United States Navy ; N. Hamp/hire.
It is worthy of remark, that the firft
Frigate launched in the then United Co
lonies 5 the firft frigate built under the au
thority of the Federal government, and the
only seventy four equipped io the U. S.
were either launched or built & launched in
N. Hampshire The fame builder eol. Js.
Hacket, was employed in the conirudWon
of both frigates; ani the fame fuperintend
ant Col. Tho's Tompfon, conducted their
building and equipment. About 30 of the
carpenters, who worked on the Raleigh in
1776-77.were employen on the Crescent
in 179*5 and 97. The Raleigh was built and
lauuehed in 63 1-2 working days. The
Crescent was completed in 6 months, ex
cepting her sannon. It is computed that a
36 gun frigate might he finished every hal/
year, and much sooner {f neceffny demanded
Was a (imilar spirit of execlioo, te be called
into aftive operation, throughout the capital
maritime porta of America, as Portsmouth
has witneffedin three different trials, the
United States might float 60 fail of frigates
and IJ or 20 line of battle, in the eourle
of one twelve months.
p rTc e o f~s to~cXST*"
Philadelphia, March 7, 1 799,
Six Fer Cent. i6f<)
Thre« per Cent. 10/J
Deferred 6 per Cent. txfq
BANK United Suites, 31 percent, t
■ ■ ■ I'ennfylviinia, 2J pfr cent.
— North Amarica, ja pel <«as.
Pennfylvinia, no
- A. Jks;e« 45 per c«{.
e P H I'LADELP }flA\
• WEDNESDAY EVENING, Match 7
s One of the French papers of this city
e aiks, whether the om'flion ta'fiwte oar en
_ v oys to a late entertainmi-iH iu Paris, ?s not
t ' plainly a retaliation for governor Jay's
_ "eglefting to return* visit of Mr. Adet in
s - N "w-York ? Po such pitiful (hifts are the
. enemies of our independence and govern
t ment rednced, in their attempts to juftify
. 'he indignities offered tootir country.
» The people of the United States hare
s formed a government ; the peopL- have fnp
jr }-K»rted that srovcrnment by elefling and re
- eletting for five fncceflive congresses, a ma
e jority in both branches ef the legislature of
- decided friends to that government. The
two mod diftingtiifhed patriots, and the
5 principal agents in effetfing our freedom io
e dependence and present government, have
5 been elefted to the supreme magistracy. Un
" der their adminiflration sur country hat
prospered, notwithstanding the infernal ma
- chinatioMs nf foreign and domestic enemies
1 and traitors ; notwithstanding internal iii
- furredidn, and external depredations, so
: mented and en«ouraged by an abandoned
-
-1 bove French gazette infwuates, that our
- dear allies will go to war with the United
r States if printers are employed who openly
r profefs their attachment to the constitution
; and government of their own country !
- A pretty cause of war this !
r More than thirty Gazettes were fuppref
-1 fed in Paris ia September, and the late ar
-1 rivals announce the sealing up the prcflTes »f
" eighteen, more. It is to be expeaed, that
[ adopting the ideas thrown out bythe French
Gazettes in the United relative to
5 theprefs, as they have in their general eon
: du« tow>-4s us, the French dirediory will
erelong, demand that no news-papers (hjll
be published in this country by the friends
01 its constitution freedom or independence.
DIED] —.At / New Bedford, (Mass.)
> Mary Rodman, reli\£l of Thomas R«d
---: man, aged about seventy years.
' MR. FFNNO,
1 Having heard much eonrerfation about a
club 01 society that ex:fts 111 this city, call
ed United Irishmen: I wish to learn from
• some of your readers what the nature of that
' affiliation is, what is iti intention, of
1 wh»m it is composed, and any other matter
that may fatisfy the doubts and curiosity of
| several persons, among whom is your hum
ble servant, A n englubman,
1 Front street March 7th 1798.
' BOSTON, TlftCM t.
I E*tr*a of a letter from Havre, dated Jan. 8.
■ " The public papera that I have enclosed
gfivg you better ntfwi.■ mi
Ktlfope "than I possibly can do even did pru
dence permit it. As to our c'ommiilioners
• it is now reduced to a certainty that they
will not be received, and it is now with A
merica that the .question of peace or war ia
to be determined. If there is not a change
in the affairs' of our government, war will
be the confequeuce. Ido not mean by this
afTertion to hint at its propriety or impro
priety, but depend it is the cafe.
4i I saw a letter the other day from Mr.
Paihe, who fays, that the minister (hewed
him a letter pubh'/hed by Mr. Fenno (a pa,
per that the minister infifled was under the
patronage of Mr. Adams our President)
which fays, " that from the diutfiont'tn France
there tvat Reason to hope that in a Jhort time
the King would be reflortd to hit rivhts in
France,"
" I hafe no doubt that to this and limilar
; publications, 1*1) a great measure, may be a
-1 scribed the ill fuccefsof our embassy."
The authority of Tom Paine fiuce his relitj
ioHs apoDacy, wM notfecure a belief in hit intelli
gence. It is prepolicrouito funpoic the Magnani
mou? Ruliri of a great nation, will cosjdeend to
be irrirated by common newspaper paragraphs, so
at to depart from the principles of juflice 1 The
alleJgedafTtrtien of the Minister, relative to the
President, is totally falfe ; he has no influence over,
n«f direftion of Funko'i paper, his* opinions
trr unfavorable to the French revolution, it is no
cau/e for plundering our vessels. The Dire&ory
has no business with his opinions, provided he aiS,
fairly by their country. An outrage upon opin
ion it but a poor proof of d' votion to liberty : As
wretched an evidence of is the im
p'ied command, tnat our papers Ihould only pra.fe
the Republic We did not hear (when the cruel
depredations o! the Fnglilh excited our resentment,
and onr papers applied to them every tern of re
pronch. and enithtt of infamy) they ferinsfly re
garded it, or iffucd n w unjail ordert in onfe
quenee If silence had been th n recon»mthde.< for
tei'r of offending the finglilh, wh:.t would heve
been the respond ? ihe rultiVi-ion wf Peace it
■uayi a duty at wall at an intt reft Befidet, the
French have now several preffetiu the country de
voted to them—that extenuate their cenduit—
that combat, as far as they are able, the publics
tiout in other papert: the British had no papers
so apologise for them—to speak of thesti wit.i ci
'vility—All were > ppot'ed to them. And yet
France, a Mew kepn Uv, refenu the freedom «f
our Preffct, and Britain, an old Monarchy, did
not murmur at tke most vindictive »x«rc fe of that
liberty. { Mercury J
The Eaftcrn Mail of this day bro't
no Ncw-York Or Bo fton papers.
GAZETTE MARINE LIS 7.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. -
ARRIVED * BAYS.
B/ig Dispatch, Rinker, Lilbon 48
Henrietta, Suhinidt, Oporto 63 1 ■
Delaware,- Dumphy, P.au-Prince 29 i
Eagle, Shields, Jeremic 21 !
Sloop Robert Briggs, Savannah 14
Bttfey, Swettaer, Charleston 9
Sally, Morey, Port-au-Prince 20 |
SaDy, White, North Carolixia 26 '
CLtAREO.
Sh'p Four Friend . Gler.n, Hawanna
Amiable, TiH mghaft, Amfterdim
Swan wick. J np-liin, BcHaft
Lavinta, Brown, Dublin Sc Liverpool
' Brig Jeraimah 5c Fanny, Haftie, St. Bar
- [tholomews
j- Brig'Tolln, Smith, St. Jago de Cuba
Sloop Miranda, Lee, St. Thomas
Ship Delaware, Cooper, from Canton,
n and brig Maria, Woodward fiom Porto Ri
°J Co, pafftd Chester last evening.
8 Ship NeW-Jersey, capt. George Clay,9s
days from Canton, was captured sn the 13th
e ult by the French privateer l'Aberdic, of
" 14 guns, capt. Pilot, and carried into Por
-7 to Rico the 17 th.
Sch. Anthony Wallace, Halliday of this
ve port, Port au Prince from Jimai
p- ea the 13th ult.
*- Brig Grace, Edwards, went to sea on
a- Monday morning—the George Barclay,
of M'Allifter, and James, Gemmcny, were
ie spoke off the buoy of the Brown the fame
day at noon.
0- j Capt. Sweetier failed from Charleston the
ire 2Jth ult. in company of the fchr. Favorite,
n. Shaw, of and for this port. The brig Ma
as i ry, Sherer, arrived there from hence the
a- I *9 l h. »n 5 days from the Capes, and was
es j to fail for this port the 26th. Capt. Sweet
q. eer informs, that from the 16th t» the 21ft
o- j ult- they experienced to the fonthward con
;d | ftant and heavy gales of wind at E Sc. S. E.
a . i that in confebuence much damage had been
ur j done, and feverul vessels put into Charleston,
•d ! particularly two Englifli homeward bound
|y English ships from Jamaica.
>n The brig Peßnfylvania, Tatem, from
1 hence to Cadiz, was spoke the Bth January
off Fayal—all well,
f. Arrived, the fch. Swift, Webb, from
r _ Martinico, which place he Mr on the I4rh
ult. in company with a fleet of 17 or 18
fail of British merchantmen, bound to Eng
land, and 5 Americans bound home, under
0 convoy of a brig of 16 guns. A (hip be
longing to the convoy fell in with a French
■jj privateer h« next day, and engaged her for
jl the space of four hours, beat her off, and
J g afterwards joined the fleet at Tortola.
Capt. W. informs, that 011 the 11 tk ult.
a sudden swell of the lea happened in the
•. harbour of Martinique, which d;ove a num
j. ber of vessels aft ore 11 fail were totally
loft ( among them were 6 Americans—brig
j Rutherford, belonging to the northward,
, and barque Eliza of New-York ; the name*
j of the others not known.
[_ Capt. W. further informs, that the barque
n Eliza, M'Kenzie, of New-York, was dis
masted on the coast of America, in the lat.
,f of 38. which obliged the captain to bear a
,r way for the W. Indies. On h«r passage
,f the Eliza was taken by a British fchoontr,
called the Thomis, under Dominico, and
carried into Martinico, where she was libel
led : vessel and part of th< cargo loft in the
gale.
On the 28 th February, lat. 34, spoke
I, the brig Maria, Woodward, from Porto
d Rico, to Philadelphia, out 12 days—all
I*
•» Baltimore, March i.
y # a gcntlman from Guadaloupe, we are
. informed that the ship Friendship, Captain
'1 Butlei, mentioned in our paper of yefter
e d »y. to have been captured and Carried into
[] Guadaloupe, was condemned about the mid
t die of January, under the plea of being
. bound to an EngX'fh port,
The fth. Peggy, from Chcrryitone, to
. Madeira, was carried ifito the above place
1 and condemned, vessel and cargo. The
. captain had been loft overboard in a gale of
. wind, and the mate being ignorant of navi-
J gation, was steering for Guadaloupe or any •
e port he could find.
e C3pt. Barns of the fchr. Treaty, of this
j port, just out from Baffcterre, was spoke on
the Ift ult. under the lee of Guadaloupe,
r who informed that the brig Little Sam,
. captain White, was condemned at St. Mar
tins, without a hearing.
The following extra&s are takecr from a
letter, from Mr. Charles Willrt, one of
the editors of the Norfolk Herald, to
' Mr. A. Brown, jun. dated Norfolk, Fe
! bruary 22, 1798.
" Last night arrived here the schooner
, Pollyahd Sally, captain Goodwin, from
s New-"i ork, On Wednesday morning he
> tween the Capes, he picked up the follow.
' ing a articles, belonging to the ship Antho--
ny Mangin, captain Stanford : a chest, be*-
longing to Mr. Clark, second mate, con
taining sundry wearing apparel, a watch
: and some papers which identify the circurn
ftance of being his property—and two
boxes of dry goods. %
" The information related by captain
Goodwin is, that he saw on Wednesday
morning, part of the wreck of a vessel oh
Smith's Island, from which he has the
strongest reason to believe the above articles
came."
[Much ground, we are happy to fay, it
ft ill left to hope, that the p<ffengers and
craw are saved on Smith's island. The pi
lot who brought up the William, this day,
mentions, that as he came by the Island he
saw a light on the beach, and believes it to
be kindled by the erew of some wreck, pie
ces of which he saw floating near the isl
and. J
•r * ■ ■■■' ■ ■ ■ . *
J o-morrcw will be Landed,
From board the brig r rankhn, capt.
J»oe% from Bordeaux,
Claret of l'uperior quality, viz.
MEDOC 7Of tie vintage® of 1790 and 1791,
LATOUR j in eafct
At-SO,
WHITE WINE, of the vintage «f 1790
ro* SALs BT
PHILIPS, CRAMOND Us Co. i
mareh §
j NANKEENS.
Ten thousand pieces Nankens,
FOR SALE lO a libiral credit, by
SAMUEL HAYS,
N». lay, Chslnst Street. ,
march J ead6t | (
i ■_ ■■»■ ,
NEW-THEATR .
n
• WEDNESDAY EVENING, March 7,
1 Will t>c prcfcbt«<t (ntv r nerf rmc here) a CO«\
L ME-'Y, in ifl*' cal!M,
S THE AUTHOR.
ri'ten by the late k 'amuel Foflfre.]
s Governor Copt, w Warren ; Wang Cape, (fh«
Author) Feni'tll , Sprightly, mr Foi : Robin,
• mr Watrtlf; Printers Devil mr Btiffiti j Poet,
• mr r ranciß| Cad\r<U?der, mr B rrard,
Mr Ca?wal!ader, nirs Bernard ; Arabella, mist
• I/F.ftr.aigd
j End of the Comedy ffot the lajl time this ftqfinj a nnv
r Traped*, in three aae al!cJ %
j FF.NELON;
j Or, THE NUNS OF CAMS RAT.
Fene'on (A#c'- B (bap of Cambray) mr Fen*
' ncjl ; Cclmr.nce, mr Wsrren | Officer of the Houf
■ , hi hi, mr 1' Wnrr_lL
) Eloifii mra Merry ; Amelia, mr< Vl*r(hall ;
, ffaura. m « Francit; Abbess. Mr» ' V a rtnge.
Th" F»i!ngu will be fpolten by mr Bernard.
' 1 Ajtir which will *>c ptrftrmtd. a w» Pantomimt But
let, tneHnfiiby Mr. Hyatt, tailed,
'j THE GENEROUS TAR ;
' Or A SCENE IN THE tVEST-INUIF.S.
■ Cac^lon > (with a Hornpipe in character) mr Francit
, To •which tvi/l be tided, a Faree (wr V/w by footej re•
, j ducei to O'H afl, ealted',
• THE MAYOR OF GARRAT.
i Sir Jacob Jollup, mr Taylor ; Major ->t«rge< ,i,
mr arren j Jerry Sneak, (with the song of the
l ittle Old Woman) mr Bernr.rd | Chrifpin Heel
tap, mr Francis j Bruin, mr W arrell | Roger, mr
' BhlTett.
Mrs Sneak, rarsFra»«i«; Mrs Bruin, mrsDoftor.
I V rhe doors will bo opened at hi&paft
( i fire, and the perforinine# begin at half patt lix
[ precilely.
j Box, o,oe Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a D-l-
I la ; and Gallery, half a Collar.
1 ' Tickets to be had at H. and P. Rice's !>»< k-flofe.
No. jo Mjrkct-ftreet, and it the Office adjoining
the Theare. RES PUBLIC A __
1 The Pullic art refpeHfully informed, that
TO MORROW EVENING, March?,
At M'Do»uai.'s rijjt'MH.y A'tom, Fourth, hetwttn Chef*
nut art J IVul'tutJir<ct<,
W.ll be printed (by Way of an Evening Lounge)
a Whimsical Medley of Entertainments, in three
parts, c lied,
The World as it Goes ;
[ Or, A TOUCH AT THE TIMES.
Confiding of various Descriptions, Hecitationi, *
Cofnic Songs, &c. '
[ By Mr. BATES.
Overture—Grand Piano Fottc—Mr. Car a.
PART Till »IRST.
SKETCHES OF CHARACTKSS
r In which will be introduced. Remarks and Obfer-
Tatioi s, Satiiral, Whimsical ; n J Laughable, on
' the diCT. rent Characters, Profefliont and Pass.
' ions o> Mankind (as altered and modernized
from O A. Stevens'* Lecture on Iliads) witl»
: the foil, wing Portraits ;
Alexauder the Gre*t, with lifcrvations on theam
biri:>n of Kings.
A celebrated Qu ctDoflor, with his Coat of Arms, t
A Comical F llow j or, The Story-Teller.
A Lawyer ; wiih the intereftmg cause of '• Sullum
► ! vtrfuk r.outum."
Dibdin's Song of •' N» Go*l without an Excretion i"
Or, The Irifn W B y of being Happy.
A London Buck, going to k cp it up.
A Courtezan.
A Married Buck, returning from a frolic.
The fmaoth face of Courtship centra, ed with th*
four afpeA of Matrimo y j with '• John Itvv
Jrat, and Jfu lovrt Jthn "
< Dibdin's Comi; .'■oig 01 Mtg tf IVa fifing.
P. «T THE SLCONO.
A riEW OF THE STAGE;
Or, P Peep Ithini tit Curtain.
Wi.h Stri&ur aon Ailing—Spouting an Spou'ing
Clubs dilplayeJ—Jack Sly aiiu John u: ; r,
The Striking Aor—A Tragedy 1 ailor' intro
duction to Mr. Garrick- '-r Audi®, cc akea by
furpriz*, or an oecdote of V rtti«e /■* mS ; d
a Scotch Pidlar— blank verfs Buiche; cHtting
Hp King Lear—
With a humorous Vocal Delineation of
" All the IVorld't a SlagiOr, Shakefjiearc's Set»
en Ages
Sonata - .Grand Piano Forte-—Mr. Cars
The Monk's Conveifion of the Jew —a Com c sale»
A Character of A'c Body—wi h a bong add'reffcil to
Any Bsdyr- apd may be heard by tvtryJtoJy.
»i»RT THt TB'RD
WHIMS <4 ODBITIES.
The Irish School Maltfr ; or, A new and impres
sive mode of Fdncation.
Song— Tkt Siege tf Troy—By an Irish Historian.
Pet t'ourri—Gra d i'iaeo Forte—Mr. Carr. }
Matrimonial Squabble .; or, The Spirit of Con.
tradi dibit.
To conclude with he C mic Medley ot th«
'• Four and Twenty Fijltrt all on a Jiovr."
tfjf Admittance on* noua.
The doors will open at half pal fix, and tht
performance tocom*ence precisely at fcveno'clock,
I ickets to be had at Carr's Musical Repotitory,
M-rlft f'reet. march 7. I
Custom House,
Difirid of Pennsylvania, March 6th, 1797,
THE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
who may have any account or knowledge of
tht capture or detention of any ibip or vefiTet, <a^-
• go, c r other pr pti ty, belong!: »to cit zens of the
United itatts. refidi, g within tbis diliriit, by or
j under tke au'ho.-ity of fonsijj.i.. two-, nee the
flrft day of QcSohrr t -94, ar? partisujar.y r-qnef
ed to give in infcrm tion th r of, tp the Co,lec
or cf the Port ot ' hila elphia, f- may
be convenient; fpecify ing the came of the vefftd,
the captain's nam'-, the l.uruber 0 tonp, ths ehi.
m. tec value of the vessel, if cer demn.-.d, the cli
mated value of her cargo, 050th.rptoperty, whi
ther carried and 'y or under the autho'itj of
whit nation captured, with fuck obferv.ti as
may be thought neceffaty upon the Circuixliancea
of each cafe, in order that lla-. mepts thereof may
be tr nfmitted to the SecretMy of the 1 reifury,
who is required to lay, 'he fame before the Senate
and Houft o! Repr-.f.natives of the United ; !a ci.
march 7. » ot
Will be fold on Wednesday the
allt ot a> 7 o'clock in the evening, at
the Merchants' Coffee Houfc, for caih,
AGR-ht ABLY to the last wn! and testament of
William Hey (ham, deceXd, and pofleOion
given immediately, a valnXMe nroperiy in Arch
tlrect, between Third and Fourthffrecn, eonfifW
o) the House No. 107, with the Lot on Which it
(lands, a Stable and other imprevementi The
house is i~ feet front and contains ten good apart
ments The lot is of t v e fame bread-h as the house
and 20$ feet deep, with a well of water, arid a
very capauous wall,-d cistern, both with 1 u p. ia
compleat repair. The~flable t b, re rof
the lot, ar.d will accommodate four horses and s
carriage. This property enjiy« a perpetual privi.
lege cf a 16 feet corrt and an alley g f«et wide ex
tending to Cherry Greet. Its central politic, and
tbe advantages it pqffeffes with nfpe<a to free v.n-'
tilation, renders it well worthy the attention of
any person w.fting to possess an eligible property
in Ph.ladelphia
Robert Hfjham, or 1 Afting
Francit jtJ rivet Sayrr,\ Ex cutor».
CONNELLY Jucl'rt.
N. Be The houle wi.; beopei. te , ~ prtvl.
ou« to t 1 e fale.for the of thote who wiik
topurchafe. Jowdi 7—ftaiftJUST RECEIVED,
AM »OX SALE, AT
\V. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chefnnt and Second ftre«ts,
(Prict Jd Cents J
Caafcs qui fe font oppofees mx f
Pfocres <to commerce, entre LA. FRANCEet les
k : A l -.-UNIS de L'AMERIQ^'E.
Avre les Moyen» de l'accelirer ; '
Et la comparaifon de la Dette Nationale j
de l'Angleterre, de la France, and des J
ETATS-UNIS. (
. In fix Lettres, addrefieei a Monfieurle Mar- <
quii be la Fay|ttf. Traduitfur le M»- J
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancie* c
Membre de la Lsgaflature de la Republique c
du Maflachuffet. '
Comm.rce efl. la portion la plus important des • <
(Richefles Natioaales- 1
——LeTridentde Neptune, eft le fceptredu Monde. '
LlMistl. f
Or causes that have been opposed to the fa
PROGRESS of t'OMMKRCE hotween F
FK.AKCE and the UNITID STATEi of AMERICA. A
With the means of accelerating it;
And a comparison of the National Debts
of England., France and Amtncj.
In Six letters, direfted to the Marquis
BE ia Fayette.
Translated (into Fr. nth from th-original Eng "
lift Manufcri't of Col Swan, formerly a Mem n
h;r of the LegiHature of Maffachufctts. | n
Commerc* >» tjtc molt important portion of the c
Wealth of Nation*. . t |
The Trident of Nuptune is the Sceptre of a|
the world. Lts«i««».
AT a juncture when the question of g
a Commtrcfd Treaty T»itb France may soon I)
bee me an ohje& of difcuflion, a work of this kind
becomes extremely u'etul to those «itiz»ns of the
XJni;-ed Stares, who may be Hefkons to enable them
selves to view this futj'ct, under its various af
pe<9s i and they will have the fatisfacSion to be
furnifted with the necessary data, to judge of the
ufelulnefs of this tranfaflion. -*
. This work is principally diftingutfted by 'he ft
ri httc.fi of the obfervaiions, the perfpieuity of tha [*
i.'cas, and the modesty of the theory wh eh it ■■
contains. A t Pare, a ft'.a 11 of wit ebierved, that 1 -
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up '
to the very roof with ufcral produce. It is addref 3 ]
ft J to the urfi rtußilc La Fatitte, in lctt r?, h
which fugitivn fo'm, the author who could only ®
devotea lew wceksto this occupation, was obliged u "
• to adopt. Although tirccimfhuc-.s at* ia many th
refpeds different at the present day, from what r >
ih.y were in the year I 790, when thefc letters pi
weie yt it maybe Justly fuid.that lo ma- v
ny abfolnte and permanent data still remain, that ac
the jujiicious reader wilf not appreciate the work * 1
lesson that account; oti the contrary,, as many of P<
"*"* the alterations, which have been made, are the re- 1*
fujc c.f the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince* him that in all tranfatftions, between free 8t
uatiens, every thing maybe expelled from the ef R
forti of truth and juftiee.
I.ETTIR I. Fi
General viuw of tha obftacles,'createdin France,
td pievent the extension oi commerce, with the ~~
United s—Ofcfervatiens made in a tour, taken
for that cxprofs purpose, upon fi>nie Frenchhiinu
f Slims(a precious fragment this) F.xlminarion
and Refutation of the prejudices existing in France, /
ajfEritlft the quality of 'certain produdions of the
Ut.:ted States, and againit the advantages of their (f
iiuportation—Demomli;at;ion at tha had policy cf „
laying titties aa their importation, principally on j 0
rrovifions ill gener»l, and on fait provisions, an<i
n'h in pa ticular—Confiderstionsonthert-gulitions
•f the FrenchcuiVm-luiules.
LEITER If.
Ol'llarles to the extension of trad* with Frame, J_
piocsodivg from circumtfances and individuals h}
the Uoited States—Proofs tha theibobilacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
bten removed) by time and thi wisdom of <;overn
ment—Hiftory as the influence of the American *>
paper monty —Importa t frinciplss and abftraA
eonfiderations on money and circulation—Causes
of the ttagnation of meriean trade, after the
peace—Critical examination 61 French loods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct
of the French merchants—Effefls of good com
mercial laws; ar d patriotic wilhcs on this fubje£l—
O'ofirvatiens on money, weights and mtafures. tlc
LETTER HI. _
I',ffay in the foil* of a tableau, to appraise the im
poitations into toe UflHed States-from France and . ng
janduntei . The author examines at each articlf,
whether it can We better furnilhed from Frsnceor
England —lt is on this fuhjcll (whith
■would have allinillicd a met the prill) thit the author
appears to evince great commercial experience Thefa .
kin of tableaux, uu'uckily as ••ifi&cult to obtain as "
they aie much to be defned, aie the only fuie guides
the Itatrfivau can tike for the policy of treaties, de- \
privtd of which he is continually deceiving or decei.
vad. We Ctnrjot too, n-.uch admire ihe apparent ex
«tloefs of coionel Swan's calculations ; and ahht.ugh
tbe prophifics of Lord Sh ffield have already been Il [ lc
con'radiQed by experience, and by fcvf>4{ able pen-, 'lO
yet it iscuiious to the prefent work, vo!
dirpute with him the enly grou-d on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France, tyf
-under the rccjiii ed condiiion, will he better able am
than Gteat Britainto supply us with (ivcral articles, ;;p
which the English author aliotj exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's fa'tn/ity tjfeH on (if he
has apy) does not appear to have at any umc created
» pariiauty of judgment- Ibe result of this calculation
is that in that is to fay, at a period when arts *''<]
and manufa#uies did not present in France the v.II Ibe
means and probability of extension which they itow j <>
poises*. that even ill 1789, it was pre s umable, that ROl
France would not only have the means to fupplv ohe f)j{
half of any" given quantity of the produflions of France f^ r (
srii united, but also to et.'er into competition y
with Gn at Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wtldom of her govern>nieiit, aod lltt industry Lv!
o! her inhabitants- P" 1
LETTER IV. I
Calculation of the cxportations of the United States, are
«nd particular examination of their fuitablencls to coti
•France; this is one reafoß why, notwithstanding the f
r.ncell nt work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ,'a-
Hctu is by «o means fupeifluous i the principle of the
advantages which would result to Fiance from the
importation' f provifioasand raw materials, it every
where applied ; and it is upon thia argument, thet A *
the author eflablilhes his demands to the French go
vernmenii for the limited admtiiioa of the pioduc
iiooiol his country into Friacc OI
LETTER V. Or
Table*!, of the debt of the United States at that dc
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the t'
«ffr£h of national debt, on circulation, 4c. as more /<
amply deuiled in hit National Arithmetic printed at
Kofto'n in the year l?&6 ; the whole calculated to
ftrcpgthcn in the pub) c and private credit "■
cf the United State»—the happy condifidn of Ameri.
ca, anf the mifcries arjlinglrom the public debt in "
Europe, are conttafted in the ablest manner, and un-
dcr the mod striking tela:ions, by very cu ious cal
culations—Obfervaiions on the wisdom and economy T
which prcfide over the public expenses i, KJaltcfcu- mi »
feus. In this place the patriotism of the author ap- f u sV
pears, with all the elevation which ajufl national 0 f r
prideinlpires. Theaocicnt govenment} ofEurope, c ,j r
layshe, will learn from us the art nl economy in
recompenfingrhefervices which the country receives; ?"IT
« AmongJi KJ r! nitl be fee*, that men are clujex for placet, ' "V!
end net places for of*. This letter condud s with a
grneral vir w of the public properly, denofited in the P
Sands of the government of the United States. e ' a l
LETTtR VI. publ;
eeaeulcxsmtnation of the of the coinmcr- iC
ti»l policy of France with refpe.V .0 the United States;
many of these obfcrvatious have produced tbe iff. il t ftfeet
for which thry v -re intended, when fliil remain f "y ;
pointing out the reforms 10 be made in futuie. as a tlc I C
siwdchartßiaikslhefhoaUatidtoc.il.. 1 !.r iutho# Jai
concludes his'wo U,"hy fixtug .... atten.ion on h .
country, and the ~rt ..1 men who nave rendered it lU
luOiiou.: and »0 ake a p'esfure I.l.quoting what be
favsof the pr sent chief of our ,/wernment. lo
praise a man when he e ereifes a J t n:n s ui.hed em
nloyracnt. U cor.mon, aod ruzv be taken for Mattery ,
but whijft he is in piivate lite, it is the homage of
finccnty* t
les Kotr, page 3 6'of the work.
• Les hanitans des Ktau-unia, fuivant dam leur
choix le ken public. & ex ites oaf un prince de
, rect.nnoiffavcc, ehoifirent M. John Adams oour vi.ee
a'e prcfident du nouve u congres. Ses efforts, pentr pre
les fervei le peuple eics intrigues formccs p-r le gouv
frnement Anglais contre f- liberie, le rcndi tnt ues
fufpect a ceux q.i ttoient en pouvoir: Le peuple,
ar- convaineu de fem merite, le choific ua de les
f,. reprefentans dans le premier congres. De ee nombrt
. etoit at-fli M Samuel Adams, pa:rt o te auffi sAtrepiJe,
ie * qu'in!atig .b:e. La revoJuttun Amencatne doit ,>eau
iue coup ala perseverance de fe« travaux, 3c a fes talens
difliT'ges. Ceux qti- M. John Adams a tievelopDes
J-, . dans le tiaue de paix. qui s'ett fait a Paris en ljSg,
out prouve qu'il et«.it miniftre aufli habile que grand
po-hiqne. Et d»ni fcn oovrage fur 1» defeofc de la
ennftitution »mericaire, il a mAntae toutes les can
noilT.nce, qui forme/it les vrais jurircoufuhes h les
he hoinmesde . i; neccffaiees. pour rem
plir hwnorablemeoi les foi fttons de prcfidcut du fenat
CA. des F.'ats-unis. ■
A or I c E.
Dts
Manufactory of ytttoiv and delft ware,
Jls Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been lately erefled at Tivoli, Red Flock Landing,
on the East Bank oi Hudson's River, ita e of Nc-v
---_ York, where any article of va.ious sons and lhapes
m ! may be txccu«ed, as well as earthen; ftr.vcs upcv a
, new conHruilion, that saves th'ee fourths of the \
lC • commonly used in cast iron (loves or open chymniei;
: they are bctideivery wholesome and ornaihental, by
0 applying to
J. MOUCHET,
- Wanted a fkillfu? hand to attend to the baking and
glazing v >arl l^c ware. Generous appoint,
on meots will be given. App.y agab ve. or to
ad DAVID BROOKS, Ei'q:
kt No. ji South sth itieet
■n- Feb. q. cod4w
t To Be Sold,
he A GUEEAELY to the last will and tcftantent of
jt\ William H ysiiam, deceaCerf, and poffef
hc lion glve-n irsmjdiatt'ly, a valuable property in Arch
ha flrett between Third and Fourth t
it ingof the heufe, No. 107, tvith the lot on which ■■
u t it is erctStd, a ftahlv, and other improvements.—
up Thehoufc is :o feet front, and contains ten good
; f apartmsntj. The lot. is.as the fana< breadth as the ]
rs, houfeand 109 feet deep, with a wellef water and
ily a very capacious wallet! cifiern, bosh with pumps
ed in goop rtpair. The liable /lands on the rear of
.y the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car- i
at rir ge. This proper-y enjoys the per[-etual privilege
:rs of a 26 feet eourt andan alley, U feet wide,exte<id
a- to Chsrry Straet. It? central position and the I
,at advanfages it poffefles with rsfpefl t» free ventila
rk tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any '
of person wtfhing «o pofftfs sn eligible property in Phi- j
«. lade phia, 1
n . For further particulars enquire at Ho SIX, Vine
ec Street—of I
f Robert Hxysham, <
or > A fling E»«gt}torß, i
FrAn'cis Bowes Sayre, } t
e, January II § !
% NOTICE. ;
U- ■ m <
>n A LI. persons who hav« any sgainft '
c > the estate of Willam Flsewtood, of ?
" e Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merrlunt, tie- 1
c ealisd, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly artefl«d.f and those who are indebted 1
"j to the ,fame, are desired to make immediate 3
payment, to !
GEO.DOBSON, ,
No. i 5, So. Third-iW. j r *
e, • Tanuary i. "- ' ' fltT
hi Ran atvaj from the Subscriber, ~t
re On the 24th January last, c
" A Black Woman, named Zelime. \
is of a middling sized Caturc, thick lips,
■ O marked with the small pox in the face—She
" carried off a huodl of lct.cn with her. Whoever
takes her up and hri.'gs her to the fubfcr'iber, at r
' N# jßt, Areh-tlr-et, corner of Fourth-streets ~
shall receive two Dollars reward
i. J. I.A2ELLES. c
_ M. B. Whoever harbor-f id Girl.altfr this no t
tice, shall be profecutcd to the severity Of the law. |
Peferuaty to. ■- n
1- Kew-York, January 14, 1798
r- PROPOSALS t
By Arondt Van Hook, ]
h Proprietor of the Reading Room ; o
r For Publiftn'ng by Subscription, b
s An Appeal to Impartial Posterity, ti
By Madame Roland ; n
Wife of the Minilter of the Interior in France. q
CONDITIONS.
1 These scarce arid very valuable Miftorical Me- b
9 moirs, (which ran throttgli two London adi- a
, tions in a fey will be comprised in a h
, vols. o<9avo. of 400 pages each. ft
s They will he printed on fine paper and a new
> type, and delivered to Subfrii! ers, neatly bound p
? arid letteied, at 1 dollar and jo ce'nts per y'ol
nice -.one third of the Subscription money tobe
paid 011 deli* ery of the firft volume—the re- ft
j mainder when the woik isc'ompleat. ft
, To- frinters, Bookfelletb, and others, who C i
, a' quire SuWfcriptions, the usual allowance will in
t j be made. ai
' I C? Sttbfcriptions are taken jt the Reading e r
Room, No 149, Water flreet—the Printing-
Office, T49, Pearl-street—and at the different th
' Boe.kftores in New-York - Also, by William ea
Young, corner f Second and Chefnut street, nd p;
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States, th
Philadelphia. m
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers ty
are obtained, the work will he put to pref», and he
complesttd with the utmost difjJatch. - w
leb. 10. <?odim g,
PROPOSALS, dl
FOX PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTIQIae
A iltw AND INTIRESTIKC WORK, £NTI T L ED, ni
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Ccnt*imnga de'ailof the various cri-rcs and mis- De
demearors, by which public and piivate propsr- J, r
ty, arc, at present, injured and endangered :
Ar.d fuggefling remedies for their prevention. ; n ,
~.. , ,y 4 magistrate, .J
fling for the counties of Vliddleftfi, Surry, Rent, ea ,
-4" -'-s!l' i°. r . th = " ( r liberty «f W e ft m i„. ,
n r ; ani for the liberty of the Towsr of Lon-
C © K D I T I O H V 'i"
This work wi Ibe printed in a large odavo, on r ;.
an excell.r.t hng„fh paper—It will be delivered to ™
fubfenhen, bourtd iu boards at the niockrite price r
of One Dollar and a talf; although th« lad Lbfirfon r■
edition on tnfericr paper and meanly bound, »
now fold at 'wo dollars and a half. To non-sub- Rc
lcriher- the price wilt be raised.
W batever encouragement may be gi T ,n hy fab- wf
fcrlption, it wtllbecommittcd to'heprrtfs without a "
delay ; and, b-rring accidents, will be roadyfor rf( l
publication early in April. feb
tr Subfcriptinrs will be tharkftilly rectivedat :
EthjAMtN OAVtavV, bcok-floie, No 68, Hibh- ti:e
(l#eer, ard bv molt of th, o»& r hooWelleA ia the or ,
i n I,l,timore ; ,m! b >- p>
! el C. ■Srhrll, an d a. Br.ir.mpud, in New-York. lift!
! J Jnui!r y3l. aawtA efti,
\ '
*V.
t PROPOSALS,
he n iK!
l m ° In fur an: c Company of North America.
ir Insurance agaistf Fi*t, on Dwelling
of Foufes, tfare-Houfes. and other 13ul d.ngi (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) difiant from
Philadelphia, in the United SWtes.
. ur ■
de j # Common lufurance?, on hazard* of the firft
cc " dafi, will be undertaker. at a premium of shout
,T ~ half per cent, per annum- For extra hazardous
"* rif'jnes a iarger jiremiim will be required, -which
will y«iy according to cirearaftances, feidom ex
!'' teeding one per cent, per annum j but in some in
" stances! where the property insured is not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered still more so
lU ' by the vicinity of extra hazardous building* and
■ ns occupations, the premium demanded will be railed
XS according to circumftacce*.
33, H«*fes and W* r e-Houfes, the walls and parti
nd tion? of wVichare wholly of front or brick, well
la ci'i.-ru-ftecJ, so t« tp b» guarded ai veil as may be
in. anting fires from within, and tree irorn extra ha
les ?arta«s buildings and cCecupations in their tieigh
m* burhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firlt
111 clals, a"d may be infurod to their full value.
Aifo Goods and Merchandize, not of an estra
hazardous kind, Li cases, bales, rr paclsagos, de
pofi'od in such buildings, to an amount no: ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than thisiurn
' is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi
tianal premium will be required, in proportion to
circumstances.
, cs 11. Insurances will also be made on buildings and
a goods cr.tr,' hazardous, at premiums proportioned
,-! to tha risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
s; under particular heads or clafles, so as to aefcribe
!)>• each with the necefi'ary accuracy. Each caf? mull
therefore be decided upon accordingto the circum
ftanccsattending it ; and these circumfiances wili,
1( 1 in general, appear from the defcfipticn accompa
it. uying the application.
Buddings partly conftruiSed of brick Or Hone,
are preferable to those wholly woodep. And in
both cases, the flile of buileling, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
"" buildings, andhow occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with rcfyeit t» goods,
of their"tendtncy, whether from their nature, or
:f- from the manner in which they are exposed, cither
:h to commence or to increase an accidental fire, aHd 1
ft- their liability in such state to rdceive damage by .
:h wet, or by fuddan and hasty removal, or to He f!o- |
- len in time of cor.fufion and hurry, are all cir- ,
>d cumtlances of weight ; and the premiums mufl be ,
se proportioned accordingly. I
id 111. The follov*th<{ condition., are to be under- ]
ps flood by the parties.
of ift. The Insurance is net the ftipu- j
r- lated premium be tuid ; but it (hall be deemed ef- 1
ge feclual from tlie time of such payment and accep- |
d- tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately 1
le signed or not.
a- 2d. Ir.furar.cas r»ay be renewed at the expira- (
fy tion fit the terni of the policy, without further ex- ]
li- penfes than the payr.eat of the premiuip of the re- j
newed tewn, the drtumftancej continuing the fame 1
ae as they were underfiood by tholnfurers at the time (
the former insurance was mads ; but the payment <
of the premium is e.Tential to furh renewal ; and '
e, if the party irfured fuffers any time to elapfc after {
file ejepiratinn of the former insurance, before he j
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured ;
curing such time; sor can the insurance be renew- £
ed on the lormer policy b.tit by computing the j
commencement of the renewal from the expiration >
ft of the .former insurance. The fubjefl of infur
,f c-Ke may nevartiieisfs be open to treaty for a new
. insurance.
s If at y other insurance be made en the fame
J pfoperty ; itmuil he made known at the time of '
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
pjication will be void. £
. 4th heid in trust, or on consignment, 1
r way be insured as such in a feparatc policy; hut (
the) are not to be considered as infuied otherwise. c
—■ company will not be liable or accoun- .
taDlt For any IOTTor . '
eign invafisn, or by any military ofufnrped force,
or by veafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion- ;
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or ether thing of the 5
s ' like kind kept in the building, cr amoncit the pro-
| e perty insured. ° '
r 6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Sees- ,
t» rities, Title De.ds, Money, Bank and othir prp- I
miliary Notes, are not included in any insurance ; a
nor are paintings, *redHl c , jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the valae of twin-
1 ty-five dollars each, to be co'nfiden.d as insured un- '
'■ less particularly mentioned and by fcecial agree.
mcnt.
!j 7th. No insurance will he made for a frorter
term than one year, nor '.or a longer term than fe
vew years. Pirfons choofmg to infare for seven
y«irs fhsll be allowed one year's premium by way /
of difeount: Ode third of a years premium shall
be abated in like manner on an infuraace for
three years.
' Bth. I.offes faftained by fire on property insured, £
shall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduction,
A defctiption of the property to be ins.-rod will
- be txpedteil with «ach application, to be made by
- a master carpenter and signed by him, as well as
1 by the owner of the building 01 applicant f»r in
surance, and attefled before a Notary or principal
! Magiflrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
) parties and their credibility. 1
With refpea to Hou/tj and other Buildings,
■ ift. The Cte and pofnion ; deferihing the F
- flreet or road on or near which the building
stands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
> cumftances relative to the extinguilhment of file
I in cafe of aecident j and particularly whether
any and what fire companies areeftablifhed, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbor hood, f
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe- 1
; ther of brick, ftonenr wood, an 1 what part of H
1 each, as well as to the outside walls as infideor in
' partition walls, and their refpetSive height and E;
1 thickness ; the style of the roof and of what
mater als ; how fectired by bittlements or par- al
ty walls ; what kind of atcefs to the top of the
house and to the chimnies 1 whether any aad P l
what eltilric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of depctit for alhes.
3d. ihe dimensions of the building and how tr:
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as te enable indifferent persons to judge in what 6
manner it, uto be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of p (
njury; the, #ge aad condition of the bui ; ding, en
and how occupied, wheihcr merely as a dv»el- s ri
ling house, or for any other, and ferVhat pur- f r ,
pole , also an estimate of the value'of thp hcufe is
or buildwg independent of thegrctsnd.
4th. Tie fitnatior with refpta to other build
ings-or back buildings, whether adjoining or qu
not, eomprchending at least pne hundred sett
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how b ilf, I f what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether a» dwel- „
lings for.private familkt or otherwise 5 wbe.- "
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car- "]\
ried on, and particularly whether there be any 1*
extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo- kn
/ited in tbe hoyfe, or / ithin the diflance afore* "ii
(aid, and of what kind. Ps
Relpediinggolds in ffoufes, Warehoofej, pu
*• A peneial defcrFption of the building in !c>
whidi they are kept will beexpeded, limilar in thi
a.I refpedis, as to the danger from fire, with tj>at fcT
AjutJVd for Insurance 011 the buildings-them ed
felvrs. r;,
2. A defcriptinn of the kinds and nature of res
tie goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
puves «1- in the ulujl fo'rra for retailing. Anii
lMUVgoods vary materijlly in kind, a general «*£
cftimatt ot the vilue of each kind proposed to of
be insured ; but in tbi iaft particular sftinute
ness of description is not expetfed.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
yj ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever building th:y may be placed, viz.
"fj pitfh, tar, ttrrj.rntir.e, rolin, wax, tallow, 01!,
0 1 nilbiiiuuiti't; ipirits, fulfdiur, hc!np,flax, cotton,
dry goods of an iafiantimable kind opened.-*-
Gbfa, china ware or porcelain, especially un
;rft packed; L,ooking gbflts, jewelcry ; sndallo
uut ther articles mofi. tlian commonly inflammable, j
OU3 or n ore than cuxrimowly liable to injury by fud- (
ich den removal or by moiflures, or particularly (
ex- obnoxious ta theft on an alarm of fire. 1
ki- Letters pest paid, directed to the Secretary of (
in the Board of Direflors, will be duly attended a
Sfo to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the t
in d means of paying the premium, w ill be irnme- f.
diately executed on the premium l-eing paid; If e
tkc application contain an enquiry only, it will C
'j' be answered.
* B'' order of th e Board,
EnKNI'.'Zi.K HAZARD, s,c'rj>. i
Office of tke Insurance Company o/'Nort . /
'" IX America; Milled. Feb. 1, 1798. 5 I
'4- v
:ra To be Sold, k ti
k " • BRICK HOUSE, together with the Lot tl
" r " thereto belonging, in the city «f Burling- .
ton > New-Jersey. I'hC house has three rooms j A
to ' vt ' ow ' three chambers in the upper story. t
The kitchen adjoining is a frame buil mg. The
n( j Lot has a front of 7a (eet on Pearl street, and
ied t ' le ' ron t on the river Delaware. The j
efe length of the Lot is about 250 feet —Tlie house :
,[, e commands a very pleasant profpe<sl of tVe river. 1
u jj and of the Bornugh ok'Briflol, on the Fennfyl
vania fliore. immediate poflefiion may be had. *
ili, F° r further particulars, inquire of Mr. Johu
)a . Sims, next door below the City Tavern in Phi- D
ladtlphia, or the fubferiber in Burlington.
THOMSON NEALE. | ~
in Bnrlington. march t. *eortiw
ng Valuable Property for' Sale. P
to ' a
Js - FOR SALE,
or TTHAT well known Estate, called SH-lEWS- "!
BURY FARM, formerly Ae refidenec of
, Central John Gadwalader, situate oa Saffaf Jpßi- K
u y ver, in cautuy, Maryland—containing a- ; M
,°" bout ipoo acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500 . lei
■f- of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex- ;
be cellent, apd confill of a Dwelling House, p
two large Bash ~» with Covr houses. Stables for fifty
'' horses, a Ipacioos treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Ovtfeer's houses, two 'ran
u" ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of hrick), Corn houses, a Smoak 4 c
P - house ,&e. &c.—The whole Estate beinjj nearly e( j
; 'y fur rounded by water, it requires but 'ittle fencing, e j
and has a good Shad and Herring fifhciy. It is p(
'a- conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and [ pa
*- Baltimore markets, with two landings oa a navi- _
e- gable river but a short failfrom Baltimore. There!
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on ac
ne the piemifas; also, a variety of excellent fruits of ," u
nt different kinds. The foil is moflly a rich loom.
ad The whole will b« f 'ld together, or divid.d into
er f-naller fa< ms (for which the buildings are conven- R,
be ientlj- lituated) as may suit the purchaser. The e f(
ed Stock on said Farm, confining of Horses, Cattle, r£(
v- Sheep, fee. wil} also be disposed of Por further an
fce particulars apply to George Hastings, oa the V t
>n pr-r' 1 "-, -r t-th- fnl fr-ihnr. in 'Jiili.i , i"' L wi
r " jvn. ftr
v " February ' : aaw6w au
ae Hoole and Lots, in Bordenlown.
of r T 1 , 0 BE SOLD, a handsome two story Hou'e, tul
p- X. with the Lot on which it is ere fled, fhuat- <je
ed about the middle of the .beautiful and healthy 0 f
't. Village of Bordentown. The house is forty cia
ut two fedt ig front, and in neat order. The lot mv
contains one acre, and is one,.hundred feet on
a ' theimari street, 1 and extends with the fame
u-uitirW, large Lot, eon- <>■
n _' taming nearly four acres, separated TronT/re?-
former*by back street. Onethird only of th«
o _ purchase money will be recjuired upon execut
ing a deed, and for the lemainder, such credit
wII be given as the purchaser may chufe. This I
0 . property will be fold Tree of all incumbrances,
.. and an indisputable title given
le t For further particulars enquire either of Dr. "j'
□- VViliiam Burnes, residing in Bordentowni near , n
u- the premises, who will (hew the fame,or of cij
e- P£ TE> > THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street. lo '
er December 3. Sawtf
n Jufl; Published, Pa
iy And to be had at the Book-stores of Meflrs. Dob
ill som, Cawpbeli,.Younc and Onuioi), u s
Jr in Philadelphia, I"
t OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting or Bilious atii
Fevtrs. ma
t To ivbicb is annexed, of
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and prailice of i"R
'7 different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib- l '(,
,s iting interefling faAs and refleiSiotis relative to J
l " the Synoclus I£lcroid.-j, or Yellow Fever, "which 8 - n<
'' has occafi'.ned so much distress and mortality, a ' c
16 at different periods, in several ®f the seaport cc '
towns of the United States of America.
bv WILLIAM CURRIE, ™
e Felow of the Philadelphia College of • hyficiar/s,,
g and Member of the American Philoioyhical jJo-i en
c " t r- . . Feb. I—p hi
1 Bafkenridge—for sale
J"T consists of 940 acres, almofl all of whie'h i«
1 a fi»e rich Meadow, (tl.ie refidtnie of the lat. I
f n«rl of Stirling). It may be conveniently ituided]
r into five farms, four of -whi.h are bounded on th J
j Earthy the river Pafaiek. ■£]
, Th r' are on it a number of buildings, forming 1 ron
afquare of nearly thres acres—l he dw llinj' hoLs mol
c is a very convppjent one and a fmalltspeßce vnoulo I (.
j put it in complete repair.
j The orchard confifls of 1501> fitlsbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on 'other pirts of said Se
trad near 300 other Apple frees—as also a great 1
' varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries ol the goo
' belt and so of! d. lie.ious kin.;'-.
j. Also, a great niuurr ot beautiful Exotics and ]
' ForeftTreo^,/that adifm the ne.iU'y and eonver.i-
' ence of the place. It situation is aberut ■ 8 mites
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth I 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield—lt
' is wooded and watered.
To favc tri übJr, the price is five pound pr. acre tc
• in cafb, 03 delivery of the deeds. Pleafc to ea- *"T
r quire of T. McEUEN & Co, X
t No. 78, Chcfitut treet. ftr*
1 February ». eodtf I
1 COLUMBIA HOUSE ftrf
! Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with muih pteaf- tlie
ureatid retarr.i her sincere 4c- fu,,
knowledgenaeßt for the liberal encouragement 3
(he has received during four years refidsnA in the
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and: he sup
public, so far from intending to decline her 4
school (helias ma te a superior arrangement for foul
the more <oiu/enient accommodation of her ; er:
fcholar«.—'Eve»y Vfanch of ufeful and polite '
education is (.artknlirly tttended by Mrs.
C-Iroomhcidgs am! matters ex.ellin-g in rtieir An '
refpeAiy? profefiioni.
Corner of Sptuce and Eleventh Street!. . , c
June jth, 1797. J-.mfrf £
The CtL.ation ij perfeflly healthy: and trade 1
iroi-e agretable by an extensive garden and lot 3
ol ground idjoining th« house.
1 \ : .I
te THIS DAY IS OPENED,
And for fsle by WILLI AM Y<frn\'G, No.JI
m- corner of Second and Chefnut-.ireUs,
es, In one largy volume, S vo.
iz. (Price of the common pjpcr, neatly bound', 2 dulUrs <
>il, eents ; fine dittf, in beards, 3 dollars J
in. THE
- AMERICAN GAZETTEER,
in a! T abetieal order, a
°" Ala tnore full and accurate Account, thah hn
been given, of the States, Provinces, C»umi t|i
Gities, Towns, Villages, Rivers, Bays, Harboun
"'y Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forts, India
Tribes, and New Discoveries, on tl*e AMEP.IGAi
of CONTINENT, also of the Wist India Hand
ed and pther Wands appendant to the Continent, an<
he thole newly t'ifcovered in the Pacific Ocesn ID t
ie- scribing the Extent, Boundaries, Population, Oov.
If ernment, Productions, Commerce, Manufafiurtj
•11 Curiosities, Sec. of the leveral Countries, and c;
their important Civil Divisions—and the Lonei.
tade and Latitude, the Bearings and Diftancn,
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towns, ajsdVjl'
Ugcs ; —with a particular Description of 7be Gia
jrialVeJlem Territory■ The whole comprising up
wards of Seven Thouland diftinfi: Articles.
- Collected and compiled from the bed Author},
tie and arranged with great care, by, al:d .unilct
ot the direftioti of
g- l JEDIDIAH MORSE, ». d.
ns Author of the American UnivcrfaKjeography—
y. ' Fellow of the mer:can Academy of rts and
ie Science*—and Member f tha Msffaclrufctti His.
irl torical Society.
Ie [llllu'lrated with seven new and neat Maps,] , I
fe ' (Pubhjbed aecor ting to aii of Congrrfs.J
r.'
j _ silJq, FOli SALE, as above,
i. Mr. Morse's Universal Geography,
u In two large 8 vo. volumes, price 4 dols. jo cij,
i- Ditto, abridged, at 1 dollar.
| February 26. eo4t
New-Tori, February, 1798.
- ■Pi?O/ , 0.?y/Z, l y BY GEORGE FORMAN',
IFOR PRINTING Bi' .SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ei.
tant only lis: munths—entitled
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY againfi
all the Religions an 1 Governments of £O
-- , HOPE, carried on in the fecref meetings of Frei
1- Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Satieties. C»1
0 j leiSed from good authorities, ;•
■-j By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
' ProfeJJer of Natural Philofopby, and Secretary to
y Royal Society of Edinburgh,
„ Nave tua res agiiter paries cum proximuf ardst.
>f sjj- THIS work will be put to prefsas soon >
400 fubferibers arc obtained,andno money requf
y ed until the work is completed.-rlt Jhall beprit
ed with an 1 type, and on paper of*
18 1 perior quality, which will comprise about X
d | pages neat o&avo, hancfornely bound and lettseii
~ j —the price will be one dollar aiid fifty cents.
e Thol'c who procure f 2 fabferibers, and becfV
n accountable, Brail have a 13th gratis—and tha
' fual allowance to boolifellert.
0 *,* The above work comes from the pen 'J.
Rohifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in i,'ii
e efhmatioH in the literary world—the faols thcin
'r Irii-arK «r>ll fn> jflf f -r. .
r and arpimep«- ■'" J " ~ -induced, while they ~cc
e ver tK* judgment and penetration othe
writer, are calculated to amule as well as ti n .
ftru6l. A fccne of villainy is developed lr\;t
author fuffieient to appal the (ioute(l hearWfe
danger to be apprehended from secret focieti
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of humiiu.
> ture awfolly ttluftratsd, and the hazar„ of try
- deviation -rem the ftjaight path of religTer.rd
sol virtue, proved both to tb ■ pitj.
: cian and the ehriilian by lluboora and inccio
t vertable f^Ss.
1 fjt Xulf'riptions talen in ty C. Porfnjn, NoJ
e tlViliam-Jlreet, opyo/Hc ike Pofi-Of.ee, an/ by the ri,,
. ive bookfeellers in Y.rl W Pbilad;lphia.
g f A
I Saliffeury EftAteT "
s T*H« Subfcrifcer, to co<itmft be
, l . nefa ' offr,rs El ' '»r f»le, om moc | ert
terfes. On it are one BW and three Air ftm*
a complete Borcing Mfcliine, aod a Very eood
J.ll.wuh two p,„. Of fenes ; also a good Forge .
HI perted repair, as are ,11 the Water Wo.ks conne;
w, ' b branches. The Air Furnsci
c r" u
of Land, one naif .->f which 1, ur.de^woo'd.theo'hb
P»lJr The'/ ' 'he best Hay «'
t 1: Gannon mani»ftii»rcd %Ui.
- u "y. P' OVCS ' nc exctllcjcy Of the metal, whichii
uperior to ?s, y in this Country, and probably, cqsl
btT , m"/ e Tt rW^W notone ° f fixtv-ninejU
lately mo-Jc although Citee of rtie 24 were hid
into 3 z pounder*, bare tail.d on provmr The fin.
' r:;y" y Cl /' blf ' P"l'«>uriy for this brar.ckn
7r S Z r '' r/ 3 P ;aceo! lying in the fe
r i,L m ! *'" ® nd o "'y 3° ™>les from leveral £
f ««S on the I
. that relult f rom . pl , nty J wtt £'fl
' „?! i ? &e nalurl 'Pond, very near the fu-nic.
1 I '" !?* y be ™ ,eMnl '"'O a variety of od*
' 1 iff The purciafer can beaccommodi
ed With all the Uock a,,d uttofi s, and hav« ooff ft.,:
ont. r W hc fi, ft " f Ju „ eiltx(i and fo3| |l)n
m«lv be made 1.1 the meantime fcr j;oinginto BlafnV
tried lately there alter, for every pa.t willbt deliterta
.1. gooi order, with some coal. Ore, &c. &c. foi
' V ms ' l Mr Joseph Anth.,ry, ,r.pt„ia<ii
phu; David Brooks, E(q ont oftheßeprrfenpMvu
in Congreft for thuSta'c ; Mr, D-v,H Wate.man, .0
the premales, or to the piouiietor in N. w-Yor«.
n , f WILLIAM NEII.SON'.
' ' , »»' C .L
Wan ted, to Hire,
A a: 'd convenient HOUSE, in or Wr
™*«ntreof th* rity—fw ivhid. a gerere.
rem will beg.ven; to be taken for a vear, or,
more lor a longt r term. Inquire of the Printer
UCt ' *7- eotl
FOX SALE, .
Several fonts of Types—half won.
jf'jS Lon e Primer, a' out 4 00 weigflt.n
good condition, and Would arfwer the purpttfe,,
cvunttj Printer as well as new. ;
Enquire of thtf Printer. ' i| |
City Commissioner's Office,
'junuitrj/ \ V b t
eTivt* H nr t I O?MJII,ON or TH * c,t^EN
I "?• following arrangement is mj'Js b v t
A fa id coniniiffioners, for cltar.ling .
ftrttts, &c.
Diftrtdf No. I.—From the north fide Of V.,
nreet, to the south fide ot Mulberry llrert •„
be under the fupermuri-Ja.neof Nicholas Hit
a From the south fide of Mulbrry flrtel,'
the south fide of Ckcfnut firreit, to l, e uader.
ruperintendance of WUliam Moulder
3' From theTowh firte ps Chkfr.ut flrtet-
Ihe north fide of SfiTuce ftttel, to fceiioder ]
Ipperintendanee of Joleph Claypo
r 4 ", 'he not|h fide of fa,
south lide of Cedar ftrctt, to be ifidu the
permtendancc of Hugh Rql,m-■.«■' n«f lr "
y*i/t Fubu/u, -
And to 1 chad of Meflirs. Cimphdl.R
Cary, and the other jrieirr" t»otli;;ler> in "
city price one dolhr, t«'its,ir boa (
'^ e *vV Views of ft Origin of t e '
Tribes and of America
By BENJAMIN /j™ Bari on v c
Jur< %s. /
/
/