»f tijc 9 and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser. :
Number i 734.J
This Day will be Landed,
At Morris's wharf, jult above the Drawbridge,
from on board the brig Eliza, capt. Vaughan,
from Maltga—
Frelh Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lemons in chedsandhaif chi'fta
Raisins of the Sun in'kegs
Figs in do.
Soft ihell'd Almonds in sacks
Grapes and Olives in jars
Bloom and Muscatel Raisins in boxes
Anchovies la kegs
Jordan and Bitter Almonds in boxes
Old Mountain Wine io qr. calks
Brandy in butts, &c. &c.
For Sale by
PETER KUHN.
P. s.
■ The aboveßrig forfale
immediately applied for ; Ihe
" a remarkable fine fall failing
Tlirrl having made her pafiagc
to and from Malaga in little more than 60 days,
march a 6. lot
Freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN,
The Hamburgh Brig
HENRIETTA,
Peter P. Sclimidt, Majler y
NOW lying at Jeffe and R. Waln'a wharf—A
flout, strong vefiel, of about i"]o tons bor
then, in good order ; has two thirds of her cargo
ready to go on board, and begins to load to-morrow.
For Frgight only, apply to
PRATT fcf KINTZING,
No. 95, North Waui-llreet.
Who law JUST RECEIVED, and FOk SALE,
12 bales Tickleburgs and Oznabrigs
2 do. Vatterbornes
I do. bleached Hefiians
I package Oil Cloth
I rheft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
Liquor Cases
99 anchors pearl Baryle, snd
4 cases elegant Carriage Harueis, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
THEY HAVE FOI SALt
Claret in cases, Port Wine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in fmallhoxes, Rice, Brimstone, Tumblers, Win
dow Glass, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, Medians, Brown Rolls, Polifli Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, See. &c. all entitled to the drawback,
march ao, tuthsaw
For NEW-YORK,
S A T R 5 A H,
■> 1 Captain Cooper.
pRCIGHT will be taken on very low terms, if
offered immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN.
march 17. 5
For Sale,
HARRIOT,
NOW lying at Ruffel's Wars
Burthen 77 tons—three years old, built of the bed
materials and is well found—would answer well
for a coaster, as (he has excellent accommodations.
For terms apply to
Gurney £s° Smith.
march T3 S
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Master,
fi a ving ,;re.-t partol her cargo en"
gaged.—For freight apply to
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
February 26 $
Nicklin Sis Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HAVS FOR SALK,
$8 hhde. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes andhhdsi
Teneriffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhd*.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths sf chests
Sail Canvass, No. I, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft-India market
Nails alTorted
Black qnart bottles
Qneens ware in hhds. and crates .
Yellow ochre dry in caflcs ;
And at New-York, on board the
IhipDiana, from Liverpool, expelled round
as soon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spanish Brown "J
[ Venetian Red |
Purple Brown f p AINTB
Patent White ' f
White Lead
Red Lead j
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing psper
Seaming Twine
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
firm ef Philip Nicklin & Co.
ts now changed to
NICKLIN y GRIFFITH.
January I.
For Sale or Charter,
GOC)DHOPE
iSafeyr A Will carry about 1100 barrels,
it ready totake in a cargo- For terml
apply to
Pragers & Co.
No- 151, South Second-ilreet.
Who have for sale—prime S«. Croix Sugar
aad Knm, Madera, Lifbon,and Teneriffe wins.
November 7. dtf
TO RENT,
A good three story House,
TWO rooms on each floor, with & convenient
Kitchen—in Front, near Entire
•1 the Prioter. ""u-ch 3—3l*3*
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 31, 1798.
For Sale, or Charter.
The remarkable faft failing
,Sheathed wits bed patent Copper,
having been a Packet of thcE«glifl)Eaft-India Copj
pany—Now pat in compleat order, She is 206
tons, and capable of carrying 16 gun*, now laying
at Mr Rofs's wharf.—For term« apply to
Stephen Kingston,
46, Walnut Stret.
WHO HAS FOR SAIE,
A cargo of Salt, a quantity of -Sail Canvass and
Gin in pipes,
march to *jt
CO P P E R.
4,000 lbs. of Sheathing Copper,
and a small affortmrnt of strong Copper, in sheets
and bottoms, (uitable for (tills, brewing and other
pans from 200 to 2003 gallons, together with an
aflortmant of Copper ware, confining of Stills
from 30 to jco gallons, Hatter's plank and dye
Kt-ttles, wafting do. of copper and brass, Filh
Kettles, Tea do. Stewpans, Saucepans, copper Ca
bin Stoves, copper Pumpi and Binnacle Lamps,
and a variety of other articles—For Sale by
JAMES M'C AULEY,
At his Copper Warehoule,
street. march 26—*jt
N. B. Or hand, a fecoßd handSugur Pan and
Dye Copper that will contain about 300 gallons,
and Will be fold chtaf.
A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR. SALE, of different fiz«s, at a very large
discount from the flerling cost. If this Glass is
not disposed of before tht Jth of April, it will be
(hipped frorti ihis port.
For termsappiy to No. 89, South Third-llreet.
march 26. §1 w
A PERSON who has had a li
beral education, and is matter of the French
J and Engliik languages, would engage as a tutor
in a genteel family where there Ihould be oae or
two boys, provided it is not in this city. Ha
would have no objevSHon to travelling, and i« ca
pable of undertaking the fuperintendance of a
farm. A note dire&cd to Z. at this office will
be attended to.
N. B. Wag«s is no objeA,—genteel and friendly
treatment is the only thing looked for.
march a 6. *3t
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
WELLS W MORRIS,
HAVING expired on the nth February last,
all persons having demands again (I the said
Partnerlhip, are requested to furnifh their accounts
for fettlemeat ; and those indebted to the fame, to
make immediate payment to the fubfcriUer.
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. The business will be on as hereto*
fore, by the fuMcriber, at his Store, No. 135, Mar
kfit-ftreet. iw march 24.
NOTICE. '
THREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United States of the following
dcfcription, viz—No. 10033, 10034, and 10035,!
for 5000 dollars each, dated Bth May,
flanging on the books of the Treasury of thfe Uni
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lanover Houfe,near Abergavenney in Enghnd,
Esq. have been loft by the capture of the ship liac
chus, from hence to London, in June last.—This,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that
apj lication will be made at the Treasury of the U- j
nited States for a renewal of the fatne.
Waddington & Harwood.
march 22 §6w
Twenty Dollars Reward.
THE Store occupied on account of the United
States, back of No. 71, North Water-street ;
was on the night of the 19th mftant (March) bro
ken open, and the following articles stolen, and
taken therefrom :
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
-374 20 i Blue ftroud fitigle
2 37 8 \ cord. S
2379 20 J
2380 20 ■§
2381 20i
3 0 . I wo cord.
2383 20 \
2384 20
2385 20 4 . J
The above reward is offered, for the discovery
of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
be apprehended, and made amenable tp jullice ;
further reward will be paid, for the recovery of
any part of the goods stolen, on delivery of the
fame to
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Military Stores,
march 21. iw
FOR SALE,
bv the subscribers, No. 2t, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Confijiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coffaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Humhunsrs Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls-
Mamoochs Checks
Maharagongcs Pawia Hkfs.
Ginghams Malmuldo.
Guzzenas Batdinnoes
Gurrahs Slflerfoy
Piniifcoes Choppa Roma Is
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Homils Persians of various eo).
Mock Pulicats
too tors SUGAR
90,000 lb. Pl-PFEK.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are noj open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bale« of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and bell colours.
February 8. dtf
Red Clover Seed of the belt quality.
MADEIRA IVIKE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter callcs.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glass—all of which will be fold
on very reaftfr.ablc terms, by
John Craig,
No. 12, Dock Street,
match 1 w&ttf
By John Fenno, N° il9 Chefnut Street.
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM FOItT'AU'PkINCC,
And FOR SALE, by tbe SUBSCRICRRS,
11 o hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 hags do
110 hogsheads of MufcovadoiSugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogsheads of MolafTes
4 bales of Cotton
2 hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Penn.ftreet.
march l». §
To-morrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, capt.
J#»nes, from Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
MEDOC ") Of the vintages of 1790 and 1791,
LATOUR S in cases
also,
WHITE WINE, of the vintage of 1790
FOR SALE BY
PHILIPS, CRAMOND &T Co.
inarch 7. §
Landing from on board the ship
Tenneiree, capt. Smith, from Hamburg,
And FOR SALE by the Subscribers',
325 pieces Quadruples Silefias
400 do. Platillas
l<jo do. Creas
52 do. do. Ala Morlaix
100 do. Dowlas
20 do. red Griped Arafcias
20 do. blue Guineas
100 dozen bordered Handkerchiefs
Eric & Letuis Bollmann,
123, South Third-street.
ALSO, ON HAND,
A cafe of printed Mullins and Calicoes
march 11. §Bt
I 'HE term of Co-partnership between the sub
scribers, trading under the firm ©f John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expires this day, aud by mutual
coufent will not be renewed* The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all thole indebted to thep&rtnerfhip,
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 §tf
" LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
ANB FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 §
FOR SALE, it
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
WHICH ARE—
Ourrahs Mamiodies
Bafus Sannas
Guzzenas Tanda CofTaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calic.es
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongfl them are a great proportion of the ma
nufactures of PatKa.
Britilh Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19
Alex. J. Miller £s" JameS Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhip unict the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friendsiu town and country, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front S/rect,Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and iHtend kceeping a general af
fojtment of India, German, Jrjb, French and Bri.
tijb Mannfa&uresfor sale, on advantageous tefrnr
for cafli or a ftiort creait.
Febreary 19 § t f
Frefti leas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, ty
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his ComptiHg House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BV
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aiTorted; black and coloured Lute
firings and Sattins, Nankeens, Caftia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and luteUring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbey have also Far Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchief*,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes
march £. §
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR IALO BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in cases
White wine in half cases
• weet oil of a superior quality in boxes and baflcrts
Lunelle "N
Sauterne ( .... . _ ,
.. , > Wines in Cases.
Macarty, and f
Mcdoc J
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS »N HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes } IntitW
Irish market ") .... . r > to
Medoa, and Sau'erne 3 mC9 in Ca c 3 j drawback
Sherry wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota ,
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 buflicla 1 lvcrpool Salt.
march 19 mw&ftf
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and .
a quantify »{ Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR., in bags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and QritgaK- J
300 casks RICE, end
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
OiJt. 17. J
Xf)t (^a^ctte.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, March 31.
For tbe Gazette of the United States.
•No. L
It is in awful and truly interfiling period
in the existence of focie'y, when, from the
association of unavoidable and imperious cir
cumilanccs, the j.eople are called upon by
. motives of doty and policy, to deliberate
upon the alternative of peace or war. That
the United States have not arrived at this
crisis is sincerely to be hoped ; but urgent
events, the pre Cent unparalclltd situation of
1 the world, the convulsing hostility of Eu
rope, and our unfortunate union with cer
tain nations, seem to warrant the apprehen
lion that we are fall converging to that a
larming point in whicha recourse to violence
will be the only refuge fromdilhonor. This
being tke obvious tendency of several re
cent events, it becomes a frtious duty of
the public to enter into an examination, at
once patriotic and candid, of the various
principles upon which it is probable we Hi all
be summoned to aft. It is absolutely ne
cessary to the chara£ter of a republican go
vernment, that before the people aie plung
ed into a (late of warfare, they Ihould indi
vidually be acquainted with the motives and
objefts not only of their own country but
with those of the nation to whom they are
opposed. By this we obtain a union in the
public energy which will ultimately secure
success to our martial operations, and give
an impressive charadter to our government ;
without which too, the efforts of war would
be squandered, and probably, its issue ru
inous and difgraceful.
Under the impression of this truth, it ii
with unmixed regret, that I observe a la
meatable diversity in the public mind upon
fubjedts of polities at a moment when the
country is conceived to be upon the very
veige of a foreign war. Cohvinced of the
urgency of the crisis, of the necefiity of
doineftic union, and apprehensive of the
complicated horrors which may issue from a
(late of civil commotion and external hoflil
ity, I shall endeavor in a few subsequent cf
fays, to allay the embittering animolities of
paity spirit, by refuting the popular and
preposterous tenets upon which the respec
tive parties are instituted, and by an impar
tial and patriotic inveiligation of the claims
which each possesses, to recommend it to
general confidence. In this enquiry it (hall
alone be ray objeft to obtain a union of sen
timent, which at this time is full as neces
sary as it is always desirable.
Politicians are prone to lament the " very
unfortunate" division which fubfills in the
American mind, without recurring to the
more unfortunate source from which the mif
fortune originates. If it is true that these
divisionS do prevail in an alarming degree, it,
is not lels true that they are occalioned by,
and necessarily result from, our unhappy
connexion with foreign nations ; and in or
der to alleviate the pernicious efftfts of this
circumrtancc, itwould be necessary not mere
ly to exclaim againit its existence, but by
applying a remedy, remove the very (ourcc
of the corruptive influence : that is, to
ween the misplaced affections of the citi
zens from foreign interests, by attrafting
them to our own ellablifliments.
It is notorious, that greater warmth arid
virulence are excited among our citizens up
on quellions which,involve the interests of
the contending pawers of Europe, than on
thole with the decision of which are intimate
ly interwoven, the peace, the prosperity,
and the very being of the United States.
An uniVersal infatuation with regard to both
England and France possesses the mind of
every class, and with aa vio
lence, exterminates the reAitude ot rtoral
principle, and Weakens the bends of politi
cal and individual probity, by strangely per
verting the judgment, miflcading the un
derstanding, and inflaming the passions. In
all the topics of controversy which are agi
tated throughout the union, it is not Ame
ricans opposed to foreign interefl, bnt the
ir.tereft of France to that of England. It
is not the Ameritan character which in these
conflids is extolled or calumniated, but the
charafter of Englilhmen and Frenchmen ; j
as if their spirit alone poffefled oar bosoms, \
and their fate was entwined with our inter
eft. To such an unprecedented acme has
this propensity arisen, that, reasoning from
the experience of other nations, who have
fallen the victims of intestine commotions,
it would seem to presage the total prostrati
on of patriotism and civil subordination, and
thereby convert ourprefent wife government
into an undiftisguifhed mals of coufufion.
It is an admirable observation of the in
telligent and elegant Zimmerman, that " a
nation will never lose its honour as long as
its virtue remains unpolluted, and its virtue
will neVer bt tainted, as long as patriotism
gives a free and lofty flight to every fenti
meut of the heart." As patriotism, there
fore is tb« centinel not only of evety other
virtue, but of the honour of our countrv,
it is eflential that we should sedulously cul
tivate its growth, and difco'untenance with
manly firmnefs, the intrulion of any other
pajfion which would have a teudency to im
pair its influence.
If indeed, as the present lowering afpeft 1
of our foreign relationrfeems to indicate, 1
recourse must be made to arms ; if nothing 1
but a£tual violence wili terminate the rapa- 1
city of our enemies; if the dignity and. ex- •
iftence of our government can alone be pre- <
served and defended, by adding to the o
. ccans already expended, the guiltkfs 1100 l
of Americans, ?very exertion (hould bt u
sed to condense the energy of our govern,
ment, and thereby afford to the world, >
proof, that however carefully we may avoid
a war, yet when driven by insult }ind ag
grcfllon, we will encounter all its difficulties
and dangers rather than purchase our tran
quility by the surrender of Qiir rights, in
dependence and honour. Forbearance it is
true, on some occasions and to a certain de
gree, is a manly virtue ; but there is a point
beyond which to endure, or to be inaclivc,
would evince all the Uathfame Qualities of
cowardice and ptifillanimity. Already has
. America displayed fuffieiently the influence
of a meik and forbearing spirit towards two
nations ofxEurope, who have alternately,
with (hamelefs effrontery and violence, at
tempted tocontroul her conduct and dictate
to her counsels : already is the measure of
ignoble and paflive fufTering completed, and
the time not far distant when, unless the
lenfe of propriety and virtue should check
the outrageous spirit of our iqenves, flit;
mud herfelf assume the potlure of defence,
in order to avert the extinction of our na
tional character, to heal the infractions of
piracy, and to wipe away with a ftrongarm,
the disgrace which was heaped on our coun
try by the unrefifted outrages of infuriate,
ambition. kARCELEUS.
No. 11.
IT having been premised, that the exist
ence and violence of parties, 3t present so
distressing to our country, are principally to
be attributed to the political connections
which we have formed with Europe, it will
not be uninteresting, nor perhaps, ufelcfs,
to turn our attention to the origin, nature
and tendency of the circumstances which
gave birth-to these connexions, and with
candour, seriousness and patriotism, endea
i vour to delineate the line of conduCt, which
| was marked out, and is still dictated to us,
| by policy, reason, and duty.
J Certain habits may naturally be supposed
' to have originated from the peculiar circum
| ftaaces of our revolution ; 'which, however
I necessary to its ultimate success, have ever
j been, and will continue to be, incompa
j tible with our own prosperity, and repug»
nant to eur relative situation and duties in
the world. During our struggle for inde
pendence, every noble and magnanimous fen
tinjent ei virtue and patriotism assembled in
the heart to oppose, in every fhape,'the en
croachments of Great-Britain, who like aa
unnatural parent, aimed at the annihilation
of her offspring in hope of individual ag
grandizement. To have been wanting in a
certain degree of enmity at this moment,
would perhaps have been justly denominated
a minor treason.
A paflion of an opposite nature, was ex
cited for France ; not, I presume for any si
militude which we perceived in the manners,
culloms, and principles of their country ;
but merely, from the impreflion of grateful
r.efs for her afliltance in the hourof calami
ty, which impreflion was at that time con
fidcrably heightened by the prejudices and
rartcour which invested our fentiinents with
regard to our enemy. It would perhaps,
have been equally a species of moral delin
quency at this moment, to have omitted ex
porting the warmth of our thankfulnefs for
iervices which wc were receiving.
The concurrent operation* of these pafli
ons doubtless gave an energy to our exerti
ons which materially contributed to our fu
ture fortune ; but on the termination of
hostilities, which was accompanied also with
the establishment of our sovereignty, these
feelings, no longer applicable to our situa
tion orpurfuits, (hould have been extinguifti
ed ; and, in refemblatiee of the infancy of
human nature, our republic in its childhood
should have commenced its career uninfluen
ced by prejudices and unbiassed by attach
ments or rcfentments.
It may be true, however, that there Is
one point of view in which by CotZdering
this subject, it would be expedient as well a'i
juttifiable, to give full encouragement to
these impulses : that is, in the former in
stance, fn much as springs from the recollec
tion of the injurious attempt on the part of
Great Britain ; and from a knowledge that
the fame motives which aftuated her war
fare continue to influence her condudt tow
ards us. If the remembi atice of the wrongs
we have endured by theaggreflion of her am
bition, is not worn out bythe favors we have
subsequently received from her trade and
manufactures ; if the intercourse which has
fincebeen maintained and enlarged by aCta
of favour and partiality, does not amount
to proof of a disposition favorable to the
permanency of our present system ; if her
conduct has continued to be determinately
hostile to our prosperity and national ad
vancement, we are bound by every principle
of honour and patriotism to detelt and re
pudiate every advance to a more intimate it
nion with her. To ascertain these points
shall be the objeCt of a future enquiry, in
which it is hoped, it may appear, that the
man who ads and thinks unfriendly to this
power merely from the impreflion of tlie
foregoing, (and ttafe arc prevalent) is more
the dupe of error, than the Jlatie of vice.
In the fecoifd in (lance, upon the fame
principle, it will be admitted, that a rem
nant of affeCtion for our former ally may be
cherifhcd, without endangering our political
tranquility, or infringing the duties of our
relative (lation : that is, so much as is revi
ved by the recolleCtios of her services, /v
a hiov/lerfge of the motives which induced her
▼
[|Vol UME XIII.•» * r L ki '
Jt. ■■ ..
/o ajhr<f that njfjldkct, and by a belief thai fie . -
frirnd'y to our political prefpe
ritp. TVfe' particulars, however, cannot
be dtm.ifttrated hy a cursory reference to j H
afts of the French republic. We can
onlv properly decide upon the validity of j
their titles to-affection orrepugnan«e by con- f
foiling in one view that series of versatile
and extraordinary conduft whiqh has at
on<;e exhibited them a nation of greatness
and lit tlenefs : a people governed as much
by felfiljmefs as by enthufiafra. 1 his invef
tigaflon "iall be the ffceond objeft of the
e(T;<ys.
Whatever may be the determination with
which thts enquiry may issue, it is obvious
that tin-p ifllons of a nation, operating ei- j
thcr tr'eiidly or unfriendly towards foreign-
ers! too often rt vert with deftr»6tion upon n
thtmfelve*. The industry of hillorians has ei
exhibited a vari«ty ofinttances in which na- h
tion", by incautiously inveigling themselves
in the off urs of their neighbours, have ei-
therbeeome the dupe» of a misplaced at- |,
tarhment, or the sorry viflims of an incen . c
fed hatred. The aflimi'ation of foreign in a
terells with our own, facilitates the means j 1
of expatriation ; and a captious hatred in
dtflged on account ofa formerpolitical tranf- v
action, the issue of which is Jranfpired, is n
evincive of a wenknef*, which, f>eing che
rilhed, ete&s an impenetrable barrier to the I
introduction and exchange of benefits.— u
The former has a tendency to debilitate the c
furelt defence of a country, by dividing the ;
affections of its citizens ; and the latter lef- (
fens their enjoyments, by excluding a parti- t
cipation in those which the country they f
contemn might afford. 3
Without recurring to history, the present J
situation of our own country is a wonder- |
ful exemplieation of the effefts which rrfuk j
from the predominance of these paflions.— t
Unhappily, perhaps fatally for us, their re- i
action has kept the community in a continu
ed state of fluctuation, not removed many
degrees from a£tua! convulsion : and which '
can only be subsided hy a conscientious and (
solemn appeal to the arbitration of reason, :
propriety and policy. Let us, then, di- i
veiled of every prejudice or pafiion which '
mav ffive a bias to rcafon, encounter the I
' • *1
truth, and determine with promptitnde u- (
poo the claims which France has toouraf- j
feftioti, and ascertain the occauon we have
to avoid the friendship of the " Queen of
Isles." MARCELOJS.
S JLT r El RE.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fisher,
:-r. 13, ArchS r t
mire 1 ! 31 4raw:f
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, March 30, 179®'
Letters for the British Packet for Fal
mouth, will be received at this Office, until
Tn-. .day, 3d of April, at 12 o'clock noon.
N. D. Inland postage mud be paid to
New-Ycrk. '
iVhiflirts at Audlion.
On TL'K U) »Y MORN! • G the 3d oi \pril, at
II o'clock, wiii h at i üblic Auction,
1 bales of East India Mullins,
'.s * n e!) k> i >r approved endorsed notes at 60
and 90 d corfi-.img of
Baft a*
C( IT".C 9
Guzzenas
Handkerchiefs, &c.
The who'o «arirJ?d to
FOOTMAN Co. Auffrs. |
m?rch _____
FOR SALE.
Sugar
aoo Hide*
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's whari from on board the brig Aihve, Will
iam William 1 -, mailer.
rigforsale,
Z?'\ And may take in immedi
,mT.J J'- +& ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehn Hollingfworth & Co,
march 30 $
" JUST~.RECEIVED.
And for tale by W.Young, corner of Second I
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey :i8 High-ftre t '
T. Dobfon, 41 south iiccond flreet and the j
Boekfellcri. grn^rallv,
BE;,CON HILL,
A Local Poitrty historic and descriptive :
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion : » the- surrounding Profpe6l Invocation
to the fctiv r a: d fylvzn Deities—to the Historic
Muse FiAion ied Dedication to Wa(l»-
in^ton —The Aiiion 01 pen 4 at the Retreat of the
Columbian*from Bunker's Hill—General
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
r»n—rerf»ni6c?.ti»>n of Fc rtune an.j Fame—
V(afiiing«:on at iVlout»t Vernon—called to the
chief Command —Formation of tha Columbian
C.mip at Oambri ge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical Hirtory of the fcveral States—Their com
manding Officcrj—Siege ot Bofton—lts Suffer
ings— Negotiation for the fvc Retreat of the
Drttu'h ■ rmy—l f s Departure—Appointment of
Congrtf—Declaration of Independence—'Cha
raA.r of the Columbian Soldier—l he Poet's
prophetic \po: v rophe to the Frogrefs of Free
dom chrougii*ut th: World,
march 3 . S
JUST PUB ISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
( Price 15 Cents)
Reflc&ions on Monroe's View
or ms conduct or ths sxscurirt,
As published in the
GAZET'I E of Hre UNITED STATES,
Under the signature sf
SCIPIO,
In tylict tie Commercial Warfare ./ Frtnee ii traced
It tieVr<-OU\ Fiftiou in thi Country, as its Source,
ojiJ tie AJotivei oj Opposition, \Z?c.
march 30.
A Negro lioy tor l'ale.
HC is about 13 year* o'.-J, ami ha> about Is
yem to ferv:, having been benad until he
r» 18 yean old, mfriTnct rf the \!ajrer of this
City and Mr Thomas Harrifon. He is both ac
tive and mifJ.i v 1 u-. bat incapable of becoming
a very ufeful boy with a master that wo»M imme
diate y superintend his c -v. luS. For further pai •
titulars apply to the Print a hereof.
marcli iH. $
I CONGRESS.
in|
1 HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. y 0
m
STATE OF THE UNION. ">
f
'lhurfday, March 29. 1,1
:T he House having again resolved itfelf into a j (
committee of the whole 011 the (tare of the W(
Union, and the amendment to the firft re
folntion, moved by Mr. Sprigg, a* to the
inexpediency, under exiiting circttmlianccs, j a
of resorting to war againlt tlte French Re- w
public—which amendment is to (trike out | )j
1 the words French Republic, be'ntj under c |
, confid^eration,
MR. GILES rose. It would be recollect-
ed, he f'aid, that an attack had p
" been made upon him, as indecent in its man- j,-
1 ner, as it was in itfelf novel and uiipvecedent
s ed. He had been eight years in Congress, but C(
. he neverheard so direct and personal an attack, j
s He was pleated, however, that it had been u
made, and only regretted that his (late of /
health was fitch as he feared would not luft'er
" him to go (o fully into a refutation of the ( j
. charges which had been brought againlt I» 11 j
as he could wilh. He (hould, however, state |
8 such circutnftances as would not only disprove t
the faits alledged against him, but also prove
rhat the reverse of them was true. In doing
whirh he begged to be corrected, if he fhottld
3 miftare any thing.
1 he gentleman from South-Carolina (Mr.
e Harper) had said " that it had been the object
_ of himfelf and his aflbcia'es, but particu'. rly 0
c of himfelf, since the year 1794, to go to war j (
with Great Britain, if podible, and to enter n
5 into a treaty of alliance, offenfive and defen- c
five, with Franco." This charge l.e declared (
i to be entirely void of truth. He knew that v ,
y (landers of this kind had been circulated in an
artful manner through the United States, from
that time to the prelent, but he never before n
heard the charge publicly made. Being made, ,
r ~ he would refute it, though it had been the
1 foundation of two long speeches of that gen-
tleman ; for, whenever Slander alTumes an e-
reft front, it is ditlipated by the firft ray of
j- Truth which meets it. t]
v He trulled he Ihoitld prove, by a reference j,
. |to the debate which had already been quoted, v
" and to oth rs, that he had never been in favor (
of a war with Great Britain ; and as to an alli
i, ance oifenfive and defenlive with France, he (
i- never heard such a propolition in private con- c
h verfation, and it will be allowed that no such
le proposition was ever publicly made. t
The inconsistency of his conduct had been v
J ~ spoken of. The gentleman from S. Carolina t
said, it was unaccountable to him how the au- f
' e thor of such animated fentiinents as were by (
as him (Mr. G.) delivered in 1794, could now ;
utter sentiments so groveling and pitiful as (
_ were now heard from him. He wilhed the (
gentleman had selected the parages to which j
he alluded, as he himfelf was unconlcious ol '
e any difference between those which he then (
' delivered, and his yrefent sentiments. From v
the year 1794, to the present period, he had ,
uniformly declared it to be his-opinion, " that '
war is juftifiable only in cafe of felt' defence." ,
exprelfion, would have availed, the gentle- ,
man frora S. Carolina must have been vidrto- (
,T. rious ; but he would beg to turn the attention j
, of the committee to fatts. That gentleman (
1 had firft introduced the book of Mr. Monroe, ]
n ' the sentiments of which, he (aid, certain gen- t
to tlemen, by their approbation of it, had adopt- ]
ed as their own. Mr. G. said he had read the ,
book, and had found a great deal to commend .
in it, and little to condemn. Human nature ]
at was liable to err. If the gentleman himfelf .
were to review his own political hiffory, he ,
g doubted whether it would be found always (
e* confident. There might have been errors in j
J Mr. Monroe's ministry ; but he believed they ,
■ would be found as few as ever attended a ne- (
gociation which was encompafled with so ma- ,
ny diffictilt es. ,
What, he asked, was the letter which the ]
gentleman read from this book f It was a let
ter dated Dec. 5, 1794. This was not a letter
from Mr. Monroe to hisafibciates, but to the
Secretary of State ; and if any conspiracy was
intended, General Washington and his Secre
taries must have baen the conspirators. He
saw nothing more in this letter than a sugges
tion of what might be done, if the govern
in- ment thought proper. Mr. G. stated the fi
ill- tuation of tilings at that time. In the Fall of
] 1794, the President laid before Congress a
| communication, (fating that nothing farther ,
g j could be done betwixt this country and Great
Britain by way of negociation, and what re
mained to be done, was left to Congress.
There never was so threatening a state of af
fairs betwixt Great Britain and this country
lince the revolution, as at that period. At
_ the time, therefore, when Mr. Monroe wrote
the letter in question, he could not possibly
rd know the state of affairs here, or whether they
ft ! would come to an amicable settlement, and it
he j was right in him, and it would have been cri
minal not to have done it, to state what it was
likely might be done by France in our favour,
in ca(e of extremities. He would only add one
! further remark, as he (hould have occasion to
defend himfelf, more than Mr. Monroe, which •
was, that he was at lead as honourable a cha
inn ratter as any of his calumniators; that whilst 1
ric he was in France he effected much good, and
ft- that since he came away, we had experienced
:hs much injury. If gentlemen would examine
the state of things when he firft went toFrance,
ar- what our fi'nation was when he came away,
: and what it is now, he thought this would ap- }
the petr evident.
ian The gentleman from S. Carolina, doubtless
J l'- after examining all the remarks he could find
, m - ef his, had brought forward a debate which
cr - i 1 1794. To follow the gentleman
tt>e would be a disagreeable talk ; but as it would •
: °' serve to elucidate a truth which it was necef- i
fary to unfold, he (hould undertake it, and
ct 8 (hew that inltead of these remarks being in fa- ,
ee ~ vourof war, they were founded upon the molt
zealous wifii for peace. Mr. G. proceeded
to read his remarks on Mr. Dayton's motion
for a sequestration of British debts, which as
the mover would recollect, he said, was a
• mere arreltation of Britifii debts, which was
proposed as a preventative of war, by holding
• w in our hands what was within our power, as a ;
pledge for the good behaviour or that coun- !
try, in order to prcferve peace. Mr. G. (la- i
ted the situation of things to be different from !
' that which Mr. Harper had represented it to I
be, as the legidature had no knowledge of any '•
negociation being set on foot with Great Bri- !
tain at that time. This debate took place on
*"> the 18th of March, when they had been in
formed by the President nothing farther could
be done by him, and the negociation was not
heard of until the 19th of April following.
.j. A part of thefyftem proposed was an embar
\ go, another a ftifpenfion of intercourse with
t hi s Great Britain. This bill pasTed this House,
, t . but was negatived in the Senate, by the cast
ling •"£ vo,e 01 'he President, who is now the Pre
mL. fident of the United Stittes ; and if this bill
par- had been carried into a law , the other regula
tion for arresting the British debts would evi
s dently have been a proper measure.
Mr. G. continued to read a number of ex- 1 p
tracts from his speeches to illuflrate his poll- j *.
tion, which he interspersed with the follow- , ri
ing rem-trks, viz. that inlteadot being in fa- 1 t
▼our of war, he had always wiihed that we 1 a
might keep in peace and unconnected with a
ny f ,re gn power. He hoped this was at pre- f
(ent a pretty unanrmousopinion, and> that we a
Ihouldjiot look, out for any aid from fo're'gn i
powers; but upon this point he had his doubts. 1
He beheved the people ot the United States 1
were not ready to go to war; it they w ere, he
llrould consider them as fools —but he was I
convinced they would never go to war tor the 1
fake of a few individuals. No people coilld. I
w i(h for a military despotism, and this mult t
be the consequence of a war. He had been i
charged, he said, with a peculiar enmity a- |
gainst Grear Britain; but even after it was 1
known in 1791 that the treaties of Pdnitz and 1
Pavia were en'ered into for the (latving of 1
France, ?.t a tine when an enthuliafm for the
cause of Fr;aice wasat the liigheft pitch in this
country, he Was willing, on account of a ! vio
lation of our neutral rights by France, which J
took place in consequence of those treaties,
(as he (hewed from the debate at the time) to
lay hold of fuel) part ol the debt due from
this Country to that, as (hould cover the inju
ries committed. Did this, he alked, look
like partiality in favour of one nation, more
than another ?
To confirm what lie had said with refjveft to
his continued opposition to war, Mr. G. had
next recourle to a debate on the subject of
providing a naval armament, againlt which
lie fajd he ha.', always voted, as he looked up
on the exigence of a r.avy, and the dilcharge
of a public debt, as incompatiable things ;
for 110 nation that ever went into theellablilli
ment of a navy, ever did or ever will d> I -
charge their public debt ; and therefore,
though we might experience some evils for
want of a navy, we (hould me.'t with none so
great, as the saddling of ourselves, and all
pollerity, with a debt proportioned to the
number of our battle (hips. When he found
the law for building the frigates would pass,
he dated it as his consolation, that the trees
from which the frigates were to be built were
dill growing, and as it would of course take
much time to get them ready, it would give
us a chance of preferring peace. His appre
hension at that time was, that if the frigates
were soon got to sea we (hould be involved in
the war in favour of France.
Mr. G. next had recourle to the debate 011
the Britilh treaty ; at which time he said, the
cry of war was resounded from one end of the
United States to the other, though, in his
opinion, there never was a period when there
was less profpeit of a war with Great Britain
than at that time. After noticing several ob
servations made on that occasion, Mr. G. ob
served, that ye'terday the gentleman from
South-Carolina said, " what security have we
that these gentlemen will go to the extent
they fay they are ready to go to ?" Who,
said Mr. G. are -ive ? Who is authorized to
put that quellion to an independent citizen of
the United States ? Had not he and those
with whom he acted as much at (take as that
gentleman and his affbeiates i In many ref
petls he was unwilling to cpmpare himfelf
with that gentleman and his friends ; but, in
this respect he was not afraid to do it. Has
that gentleman and his allbciates a greater
claim to patriotism, than others ! It they
have, let them diew it. Or have they great
er domedic inducements to value their
happiness in the country ! He believed
not. He could fay for himfelf that he
had never adopted a fiiort way of getting
wealth, nor had any thing to do with notes
and banks, he owed no man any thing which
he could not pay on demand. He had been
placed in a moderate sphere of life, and desir
ed not wEalth. Whence, said he, arises the
clamour for hodile meafures—for refidance ?
Not from our independent yeomanry, nor from
men who are molt deeply intereffedin the wel
fare of our country, or surrounded with do
medic comforts ; but from men of a different
defcription—fro.n speculators, and men who
have few attachments to it.
Mr. G. did not believe that we flood upon
such unequivocal ground with refpett to
France, as we formerly flood in relpett to
Great Britain. This had long been his opi
nion ; and though we have heavy complaints
to make againd France, they were not with
out jult complaints againd 11s, arising princi
pally from the operation of the British treaty
. —that fatal indrument to the United States.
Mr. G. read some of the articles of the
treaty, and his former remarks thereon, and
denied that there was any well founded appre
hension of war at the time it was under dif
cuflion. Mr. G. noticed the afl'ertion which
had frequently been made, of French Direc
tory receiving lelfons from this country, which
he said was too absurd to be believed.
Though he thought France had just ground
of complaint againd this country, he did not
mean to judify her conduct towards us. He
thought (he ought to have received our minis
ters ; and if they had not agreed, to have
taken such measures as they thought proper.
But this is supposing our minilters clothed
with fufticient powers; if they were not, there
, would be some ground of judification for
, their cond itt. The President ol the United
States is in poflfeflion of information which
would fatisfy the Congress and the people in
I this respect, but he had thought proper to
withhold them, and therefore he alone is re
sponsible. There was one circumstance, he
said, very unaccountable in this business.
' The President informed the house that he had
| received certain papers, and fays, " 1 have
conlidered these papers—l have deliberated
; upon them, Ido not fend them to you, but
require you to aft upon them, I call upon you
, to take energetic measures, and requed you
, wi 1 provide fuflScient revenue." The house
I i has been obliged thus to take up the business
iin the dark. Is this, said he, a desirable date
I : for the legidature to be placed in 1 Is it not
rather a degraded (late ? He thought it
f was ; and when party rage (hall subside, and.
it (hall be seen that the Executive is pursuing
I hodile measures, and keeping back all inlor
s matioH from Congress, the conduct would be
( deemed extraordinary. He was far from fay
s ing the Executive had not done what was
r proper. He could not fay so, because he had
J , seen ro evidence upon which to form a judg
i ment ; but it left a dreng impreflion on his
j mind that something was not correit, which
' was the reason the expetled papers were not
0 j <ent.
y'• The fird speech of the present President,
- j he said, contained some sentiments on the
n fubjeft of the balance of power, which he
- j was far from approving. He dates, " that
d whether the United States will, or not, the
it powers of Europe will confiderthem as condi
tutinga part of the balance ot power." Mr.
G. did not know whether this was a faff, or
h not; but if it were, he thought we ought not
•, to have submitted to have been so conlidered
without opposition. But the President takes
- it for granted, and proceeds to act upon it.
II Knowing the political sentiments of the Pre
,- (ident, he thought this a dangerous doctrine
- in his hands. Mr. G. said, lie never believ
ed there was any thing like a real balance of
power in Europe; it was a mere imaginary <
thitfg, and he thought there could not be a
more ridiculous figure drawn than that ct a
Piefide.it of the United S'utes attempting to
adjulf the balance of power in Europe. '
Mr. G. quoted a paragraph from the Ult
speech of the president , (peaking of the dil- <
adjlifted (late of Europe, which he thought
very improperly applied to 1' ranee, at a time
he did nut know whether our ministers were '
received ur not.
He also again referred to what the President
fays in his l ite mellags with re(pe£t to the
change of circumdances, which he (till thinks
lie meant to apply to a change from Neutrali
ty in the country to lomethitig like war. And
in these circumdances, (aid he, are the Peo
ple of t lie United States to be led 0:1 from dep
10 dep, until they are irrecoverably involved
111 war ? And ar« the people to be told this
is a trifling quell oi ? V-'Mtn all the country
is 111 commotion, and when the people are
preparing their petitions tor peace (which he
thought very proper) he was not willing to
proceed, until the present qucltion was deci
ded.
He would fugged another idea. lie had
heard a variety of observations from different
quarters, that at a period not very far didaut
from the present, a more intimate connection [
betwixt this country and Great-Britain than i
a. present exists, is likely to take place. And |
yet gentlemen are jierptfuulLy crying, What!
give up ypur independence! Do Vou prefer
peaceto ndependenre' He.wouldanfwer,No;
for independence he (Mould be ready at ail
times to make war. But are we, said he, call
ed upon to fight for speculative Independence,
and, at the lame time, willing to commit our
real independence to the mercy of another na
tion » Where, he alked, .3 the difference
betwixt depending upon the French or Br tilh
Nation ! E\cept, indeed (as he believed was
the speculative opinions of some gentlemen)
there was an in*' ntion of allimilating the Bri
tilh and American Governments.
Gentlemen talked of Newspapers. He
would fay a word on that subject. There are
two papers, said he, printed in this city, which
not only breathe defenfive but offenlive war
of the worst kind. One of these papers, he
believed, was particularly countenanced by
the government .; the other was printed by an
infamous Scoundrel, a British subject—a
paper which he was sorry to find too much
countenanced. This paper not only breathes
war, but extirminating war. And this pa
per, illued from a British Press, spreads its
baneful sentiments throughout the country.
He proclaimed this fact ; and he should think
himfelfa Traitor to his Country, not to pro
claim it.
Mr. G. next noticed the impeachment of
W. Blount, late a Senator of the United
States. It is known, said he, that the Bri
tish Minister here, aftually gave money to an
American citizen, paid his pafl'age, and sept
him to Europe, to know whether his Court
would concur in the plan of an invasion of the
Spanifli Territory, for being engaged in which
Mr. Blount hasbeen impeached. Could any
one deny the fatt ? They could not ; it had
been given in evidence before the committee.
There might be many other fa£ts connected
with this, but he confined himfelf to what
appeared in evidence. This person who was
sent to England was the confidential agent of the
Britilh Minider here. [Mr. Harper said,
that was not true. Mr. Giles called for the
reading of Mr. Davy's evidence on the fub
jeit of the impeachment, which was read ac
cordingly, when it appeared the expreflion
there used, was confidential perf',n.~\ Mr. G.
believed a confidential person was a confidenti
al agent. He was about to remark, that these
circumitances had appeared to him to indi
cate fomethingmore than was before the house
at present. He could not help recolleiting
how different was the conduct of this govern
ment towards the Minilter ol another coun
try, when he had been guilty of mifconduCt.
Was there not an inllant demand to his court
to have him recalled ? And the demand wes
proper and right; and he could not account
for a contrary conduit in the other cafe,
which he had mentioned.
Mr. G. would fay a few words as to the ef
fect which the late French decree would be
likely to produce upon this country. The
committee had been told by the gentleman
from S. Carolina, that it would elfedtually
deltroy our revenue. He believed was
miflaken in this. To France, and to those
nations w ho may be supposed to be under her
influence, welaftyearexported to theamount
of 36 millions of dollars, and to Great-Bri
tain eight millions, two-thirds of which, are
re-exported to the countries above mentioned.
Against whom, then, are we to arm 1 Againlt
those who receive 36 millions, for the protec
tion of the eight millions, two-thirds of which
are re-exported. How, he asked, would this
operate f Would the decree flop the impor
tation of Britilh goods ? No; it might leflen
them, but would not flop them, as the Bri
tilh would become, in some measure, their own
carriers, and as their vefl'els paid a higher du
ty in our ports than our own, it is probable
our revenue would not be greatly lefTened.
It was possible, however, that there might be
some abuse of the decree in carrying it into
execution.
He was as much opposed to the decree of
| the Executive Directory as any man ; butnot
, so much OYI account of any loss we (halt sus
tain from it, as from its being an attack upon
. our neutral rights, which he preferred to mo
ney. The Britilh treaty had authorized two
[ a£ts that took place in January lall, which will
transfer the carrying trade from American to
British vefl'els ; but those acts will not effect
our veflels going to France, Spain or Holland.
He fuppoled, therefore, that our commerce
, would not be very materially injured bv the
. French decree. He did not know but it
j would even be upon a better footing than at
, present, as there would be more security for
[ it. At any rale, 110 rafli measures ought
t to be taken, until we fee how the decree is
L executed.
; No one could fay what farther measures
were contemplated by the French govern
; ment ; but the resolution on the table only
. went to fay, that at this day we are not difpo
s posed to resort to war. He wished to make a
1 diltinclion. It was said by gentlemen that
- those who are not willing to resort to war,
s are unwilling to prepare for it ; he was, and
h always had been willing to put the country in
t a (late of preparation according to the extent
of our means.
, The gentleman froi.v S. Carolina had yef
e terday fpokenof the great importance of the
e British fleet. He did not mean now to make
t any comparison between the fleets of Great
e Britain and France. With respeCt to the
- British fleet, he looked upon it as ruinous to
. the country, and predifted, that if the pre
r sent fleet survives two years, the nation finks,
t It is impoflible it (hould proceed much sar
d ther. Gentlemen may fay this has long been
s foretold ; but there never was before a time
. when this was so evident. What, said he, are
- the British now fuppcrted by? By the bodv
e of merchants. The Bank is gone, and pro
- bably will never recover itfelt. It is of little
f consequence whether Frauce invades England
or not —England mull fall.— i -; e other
hand, the populationofFrance ... ■ millions;
/he has the fined country in fcairofn: ; her mi
litary (kill is great, and (tie is polleiled of mod
of the fortifications of Europe. And are we
to engage in the carnage of the human spe
cies, at this late day, agaipft this country p
He hoped not. Besides iuppofe we were to
join England in the war, and be Tuccefsful,
would nor (he have an interelt in the dedruc
tion of our commerce at the termination of the
war f She certainly would ; and though (he
may now fee a current in her favour in the
United States, and propose measures which
may appear flattering, yet her difpolition to
fav»ur this country would not outlive her in
tered.
Perhaps gentlemen may fay, what will you
do, if France carries her injuries farther r " I
would, laid he, draw ourselves within our
shell. I would sooner (though 1 do not.pledge
myfelf to do it) indemnify ourcommercial ci
tizens, than go to war. I am now, and al
ways have been,for peace."
He truded the gentleman from S. Carolina
was, by this time, pretty well fatisfied as to
the inaccuracy of his statement. Before gen
tlemen make charges of inconlidencv against
others, they should be sure that they tnem
felves (land firm in that respect. That gen
tleman ought to have looked back upon his
own conduct in 1792 and 1793. He had been
informed that that gentleman was at that time
a member of an affiliated society of Jacobins.
[Mr. Harper said it was not true.] He be
lieved, however, all the gentlemen who knew
him at the time, would do him the credit to
(ay, that he was one of the molt eloquent
Declaimers of that day in favour of the Rights
of Man. But his inconfiltency had even ap
peared within these two days. When the
present proposition was firft laid on the table,
he rejoiced that there was a prospeCt of all
uniting in inanifefting a disposition for peace ;
but the next day he used arguments which
went to the destruCtion of the resolution.
The (.entleman from Malfachufetts (Gen.
Shepard) had made a remark, which he. mult
notice ; it was, that he afTumed to dictate to
others what was proper to be done. Of this
he was not jultly chargeable. That gentlfc
tleman told the committee he was a warrior; he
vtnerated himas fuch--he was a warrior in a
glorious cause ; but whild he venerated him
as a (o Idler, he had to regret the political pre.
judices under which he laboured"which could
iuffer him to attribute a motive of that kind
to him. The gentleman from ,New-York
(Mr. Brooks) had alio told the committee he
had also been in service in the revolution.--
This he did not know before lie heard it from
the gentleman himfelf. But he had lince been
told, he was engaged in the honourable and
humane employment of clothier to the ar
my. [Mr. Brooks said, he had the honour
of taking up arms in defence of his country,
which he carried until he was taken prisoner.
He was a prisoner eighteen months, and when
lie was set at liberty, he found his vacancy
was not preserved for him. He than l'erved
his country in a different line, and he believed
ifl a manner which entitled him to at lead as
much merit as he had afl'umed. He believed
that providing the army with clothing was an
eOTenfial part of the service ; but, (said he,
with great warmth) if the gentleman doubts
my being a soldier, I am here to answer him.
(A loud cry of order, and Mr. B. fat down).
Mr. G. (aid, he had received this informa
tion from one of the gentleman's friends. He
made the enquiry, because he did not know
what services he had performed ; and be as
sured him the information which he had" re
ceived had tended to rail'e, rather than to fink
him in his edimation ; but he was not alarm
ed at being told he was afotHier.
It had been said of the resolution before
the committee, that by dating we are not
ready to resort to war agairid he French
Republic, that it might be implied we are
ready to go to war with some other nation.
That this idea might be done away, if gen
tlemen will permit the words " againlt the
French Republic," to remain, if the mover
would give his consent, he should have no ob
jection to add the words, "or anv other na
tion."
Mr. Ha rfer hoped,as he had been particu
larly alluded to by the gentleman just fat down,
he should not be conlidered as trefpafling 011
the patience of the committee in an unreason
able manner, if he made a few remarks in re
ply ; though he did not mean to do it gene
rally, as he perceived others had undertaken
to do that, whom he was conscious were bet
ter able to do it than himfelf. He was called
up merely by the gentleman's personal obser
vations.
In the firft place, be was charged with great
indecency in bringing forward and comment
ing upon the gentleman's own speech. He
left it to the conjmittee to determine with
what propriety this complaint came from a
person, who has omitted no opportunity of
attributing the word of motives, not only to
gentlemen in that house, but to others out of
it ; neither aga, character nor absence have
pref.rvedgentlemen from his cenl'ure ;--from
a nerfon, who has always indulged himfelf in
the molt violent philippics againd the Execu
tive of the United States, and an who con
curred in his measures ;--from a person who,
when gentlemen declare they are for peace,
fays he does not believe them ; from a perlonj
who has continually charged all those with in
confidency who differed in opinion from him,
not by examining their conduCt, but by mak
ing insinuations againlt them as to their debts,
or to the way in which they may have acquired
money, or by following them to their youth,
before they became members of this house ?
He thought the gentleman ought to have at
tended to theold.but judadage, "Heivbolivts
in a glafi houft, ought not ta be thffirjl to throw
ft ones." If there could be a man m re re
gar.llefs than that gentleman of all the rules
of decorum in drbate, lie had never
him.
As to the cjiarge of.incoqfidency in his con
duct, it had otien been made in private, and
as often contradicted ; but as it is now bro't
into public view, he woul lay a few wordson
that point. *
It was said, that in 179 1 and 1792, he was a
member of a Jacobin Society, and a warm de
t liumer in favour of the riith sot mail. What
was said resetting his being a member of a
Jacobin Society, is one ot rhofe falfehoods of
party, which, though known to be unfounded,
is (till reported.
1 he fact, Mr. H. said, was this, which he
never concealed. In the year 1791, there were
inltituted in Charledon, a variety of clubs
(there were several before that time) of many
of these, being a Young Practitioner of the
Law, and desirous ot extending his acquain
tance, and procuring bulinefs, he was a lnem
-1 ber. Amonglt these was a Society called a
1 atriotic Society. It was composed of French
and American Citizens ; and he and fsVen or
e ght other you 12 practitioners obtained admit
-1 ante and attended oner or two evenings ; but
finding it composed of pcrfons from whose so
: ciety much imp ©vcment co iM not beexpefled,
' they never went afterwards ; and so anti.jaco
- binir was their conduit conferred, that rh»v
; merited and received from the so-
I ciety.As to b<ing .t declaimer in favour of the
ri<dits of man in 1791 and 1791, he owned he
partook of that enthusiasm which at that time
ragedin America; because hewasdeceived. He
then believed the French had been unjuftifia
bly attacked, but he now found they were the
firft aflailants. He then believed that the trea
ties of Pilnifz and Pavia, of which they had
heard so' much, were realities ; but he now
found them contemptible forgeries."Wifli re
speCt to otli-r.partsof tW French, Revolution,
lie then believed th;rt the principal aftors in j
it were virtuous Patriots, but he had since I
difcevered that they were a f'et of vvorthlefs '
JVotfndfcls and road-headed enthusiasts, who, '
in endeavouring to reduce their fallacious
fchenies to practice, have introduced more ca
lamities into the world, than ages of good go
vernment will be able to cure.
Mr. H. said he never was a declaimer
in favour of what gentlemen meant by the
rights of man. He held them and their
author in merited contempt. The pretended
factitious rights of man to which gentlemen
referred, were the rights of a few nolfy de
magogues over the rights of the people.
Though 113 always believed this, lie did not
know it so well, in 1791 and 1792, as he
knew it 1794 and since. And, therefore, he
was not a declaimer in favour of what the
gentlemen mean by the rights of man, but he
•was a warm admirer of the French Resoluti
on, when he thought the objett was the efta
bh Vue'nt'of the true rights of man ; butlince
he discovered that this was neither the object
ricr ivo ild it be the elfeit", indiead of viewing
that revolution as a blefling to the world,
which he<iiv*e thought it, he now viewed it as
tii- gref.Vcft curse that ever afflicted mankind ;
as a } of wrath from heaven, the bitterefi
tha' eves was poured cut upon the earth.
Th-re was a certain (pecies of the rights of
man!of which he had always been the defen
der, mi favour of which his voice would al- \
ways be heard. He had* in a well known in- 1
ft.inee, advocated the fights of his fellow citi
zens in the best manner he was able, and in a
vay wiiiclj had obtained for him their thanks
and their remembrance. Hjw he conducted
that defence, was well leno.vn to some of his
colleagues in that house.
Mr, H. den ed tfiat he had been inconfift- '
rnt witji reipeel to the proposition before the i
committee. He then noticed what had fallen
from Mr. Giles with refpeit to the decree of
the French Directory not being so inimical to
this country as it had been supposed to be.
Mr. H. charged Mr. G. with being much
iniftaken in fuppoling that only the amount ot
eight millions of dollars wasexported to Great
Britain and her dominions, or that 36 millions
v.ere exported to France, and to countries
connefted with liar. Out of the 51 millions
exported from this country during last year,
it appeared from the flatement before them,
that 8,Soo;ooo w ere sent to Great Britain,
9,000,000 to the Hanfe towns, to France and
her dominions, 11,000,000. But he asked if
the gentleman from Virginia knew the reason
why this amount to France appeared so large .»
If not, he would tell him. All the produce
fhippedfor the Britifli Weft Indies in 1797,
was aljunoft constantly cleared out for French
ports, in order to avoid the effects of the
plundering decrees of French Weft Indies, and
this was the reason why fix or seven millions
appeared under this head, which ought to ap
pear under another. But the gentleman
seemed to fup'pofe that all which did not go
to Great Britain, went to France, and coun
tries connefted with her. At least 20 millions,
out of the 51, went to countries over whom
France had 110 power ; and when to these
v < re added what was sent to Great Britain,
and 6 or 7 milllins were dedufte.' on the
ground he had mentioned, the gentleman
•vGuldfind the balance was not very confide
rab'ie.
Mr. H. said he should not notice what the
g<;:ifiemai! had chose to fay refpefting the
Entith Minister, except as to the improper
r.isnner in which he had called a confidential
peiTon, a confidential agent of the Minister,
and to fay he could not fee any analogy be
twixt this-cafe, and that of the French Mini
ster wlio fitted out privateers, and levied
troops in our country, without permiflion from
the tjVelident of the United States.
The gentleman from Virgihia had entered
fully, not only into a juffification of himfelf
but his friends. How far he had acquitted
himfelf and theni from the weighty charges
which iie had exhibited, lie was not the pro
per person to judge, he left the public to de
termine. He must, .however, beg leave to cor
rect him in ope of his facts. He informed
the" committee that the letter of Mr. Munroe,
which had been quoted, was written in De
cember, 1794, whereas it was dated, Paris,
.Sept. 10, 1795, long after that minister had.
been ofEcially informed by our minister in
London, that the British treaty was concluded
and signed ; yet this letter recommends the
taking of the posts, the invasion of Canada,
and the cutting up of British commerce by
privateers, Ha did not fay that this letter
was a proof of conspiracy ; but of a system of
policy which was very contrary to a peace
fyflem.
But the gentleman fays, he (Mr. G.) never
proposed war againlt Great-Britain. He knew
it. The gentleman always spoke of peace,
but purfufed measures which led to war.
He did not speak of war, when he recom
mended sequestrations, confifcations, &c.
because he loved peace. He did not talk
of wat ; but whilst he and his friends op
posed meaf«re/ of defence, they were in fa
vor of every measure which led to war.—
Whilst they were irritating a nation to war,
theyloppofed the building of the frigates.—
He could not fay what were the views of
gentlemen in doing this, but he would fay
what appearance it had on his mind, whet)
he was far removed from the feat of gov
ernment. He thought it fremedasif gen
tleman believed it would be well to get to
war, and then rely upon their favorite na
tion for support.
- ■ The Speaker ht i t allurt'<i to the paper called
" 'hcfccond treaty of Pilnitz" which he declares to
1 <(il*tgery. The firft treaty of Pilnit* wa-am-re
cntfditiunal agreement between the Emperor and
the King of Prudi i, that if tithsr of them should
be attacked l>y France, they would unite in their
deforce. Thi-i treaty th'-y avowfd; and when, on
the accept*ace of the new Cor L: inrtion by the King
l( 1' better profpeiits of a peaceable condnA
on par* 01 that na'ion were entertained, they
fM|>Cnd'vl this "ti'y Hr a forr-»l declaration.
\This Delate to be Continued.^
Fri lar, March 30.
The Speaker laid before the house a re
port from the Secretaiy of the Treasury on
the •fubjiSt of contrails for the fobfiftence of
the arfny, which was ordered to be printed.
.Mr. C lopton, from the committee of en
rolment, reported as duly enrolled, the bill
prohibiting for a limited time the exportatisn
of arms and ammunition, and for encouragmg
the importation thereof.
Mr. Otis prefentud a petition from the
freeholders and others, of Roxbury, in the
n -te of Maifjc i.tfctts fitting, that they hear j
with concern, that liberty is intended to be I
von to Merchants to arm their veflels for felf '
defence, knowing that Mattes of veflels con
fill of a great variety of character"; that
amongst them there are are men of violent
pafhons, and that the defiance betwixt putting
arms into a man's hands and the commence
ment of hoflility, may be very short, they de
precate the idea of the Peace and HsTppinefs
of this Country being placed on so uncertain
a foundation as t] )e pride, capartce or pafTion
of the master of a merchant vefTel, they pray, >
therefore, that veflels of this delcription may
not be permitted to arm. —Referred to the I
committee 0 f whole on the State of the
Un on.
Mr. Thatcher presented the petition of
JonatJ>a n Young, jun. a soldier in the late
war, praving to be placed upon the pension
lift. Referred to the committee of claims.
Mr. Harper, from the committee of ways
and means, reported a bill making appropria
tions for the Military; Kftablifhment of the
yea r 1798, which was committed for Monday
The amendments from the Senate to the
bill for the relief of refugees from Canada
and Nova Scotia, as agreed to by the com
mittees of conference, were agreed to by the
house.
Mr. Allen observed that when the Presi
dent of the United States sent his firft Mes
sage to the house, announcing 'he receipt of
dispatches from our Commilfioners in Paris,
he stated that it would take some time to de
cypherthe dispatches which he had received.
Some days afterwards, on the 19th inffant, he
sent another mefi'age informing the house,
" that it was incumbent upon him to declare
that he saw no ground of expectation that the
o'ojeift of their mifiion could be accomplifhcd,
on terms compatible with the fafety, honour,
or the elfential interests of the nation."
It had been observed, in the cnurfe of the
debate in thecommittee *f the whole 011 the
State of the Union, and not in the mod can
did and proper manner, that the papers re
ceived from our commiflioners ought to have
been laid before the Koufe, and the President
had been charged with 'withholding them. He
supposed gentlemen would have been fatisfi
ed, and he was, with the information which
the President had already communicated,
that our commifiioners are not received, and
that France refufes to hear 11s. But, though
he was himfelf fatisfied with the information
he had at present, as he believed there are ma
ny gentlemen in the House who with for more ;
because there is a paper printed in this city
which is continually insinuating that there, is
fomethincr in these dispatches which, if they
were made known, would (liew that the con
duft of our Executive has been improper; I
because he found that paper often speaking
the language of gentlemen in this House, and
which (poke it, he believed on this occalion ;
and because, if th'j is not true, he wished the
people be undeceived ;or if true, that lie
and those who thought with him, that no
such blame existed, might be convinced of
tl'eirerrer ; he proposed the following refe
ction, to which he hoped there would be no
°bje£tion
" Refblved, That that the President of the United
States be requested to communicate to to this house,
the dispatches from the Envoys Extraordinary of
the United States to the French Republic, men
tioned in his message of the 19th inft.
or such parts thereof as conftderatitns of public fafety
and intercji, in his opinion, may permit."
Mr. Livingston moved to amend this re
fnlution by /hiking out that fart 'which is print
ed in " italic, and by adding, before the 'word
" dispatches,'" inftruilions to.
After some observations bad taken place on
this amendment, a motion Tvas made by Mr. Har
per to adjourn the farther confederation of this re%
solution till Monday f the previous and ordinary
motion of 'when the house adjourns, it will adjourn
till Monday having been pafjedJ •which tuwM
carried 47 to 41.
The order of the day being called for, Mr. Al
len hopedthut ivould also be pojlponed until the re
solution 'which had already been pojlponed, should
be decided upon.
This motion produced a debate •which continued
till tiuo o'clock, •when a motion ivas made and
carried to adjourn. A fietcb of the debate on
Monday.—The House adjourned :Jl Monday.
By this day's Mail.
*NEW-YORK, March 29.
By the James, from France, we have !
Paris papers to February 3, but they are 1
extremely barren.
From Raftadt we have advices that the
French plenipotentiaries have declared the
intention of the republic to indemnify the
princes of Germany for thelofsef their pof
feflions on the left of the Rhine.
The deputies from the German princes
and states have demanded of the Imperial
miniller, a communication of the secret ar
ticles in the treaty with France—To this
the imperial miniller replied, that the em
peror never had demanded of the prisces
and states, which had r.iade a separate peace
a disclosure of the secret articlts in their
ti. aties.
At a fcflion of the deputies on the 2zd
of fannary, there was some discussion rela
tive to the cession of the countries on the
left of the Rhine, and to the distribution in
mauy places, on right bank—cfpeeially in
the Brifgau, in Baden and Nassau, of wri
tings tending to excite the people tochange
their form of government. The refalt was
a provisional decree, as a preliminary, re
questing the Imperial minister to make re
presentation to the French rr.inifters, rela
tive to the continuance of the French troops
beyond the line stipulated by the armistice,
and to desire the French government to
disavow every scheme for republieanizing
the inhabitants on the right bank of the
Rhine.
In thatfeflion thedeputies received news
of the evacuation of Ortenau by the French
troops.
Intelligence from Vienna announces that
the kir.g or Prnffia appears to aflent entirely
to the proposed arrangement in Germany.
On the 29th of January Venice was
evacuated entirely by the French under gen
eral Semirier.
The legislative body of the Liguriap re
public was installed. Some of the members
arc already " accused of a modtrantiftn very
[ different from true moderation.!"
The infurreftion in Corsica was entirely
nppeafed.
An article from Bologne fays that the
French were advancing towards Rome in
two columns. One had arrived at Tolenti
no, tfec other at Penigia, where they had
planted a liberty pole. The duchy rrf Ur
,b!no is faui 11 be revolutionized.
The directory have re (lore J gen. Ki Her
man to his rank and dation, and charged
him with the new organization of the ca
valry.
Great opposition is made in the Dutch
convention and on the 28th Nivofe, twenty
three members fecedcd.
An order has been given by the French
government to condruCt at Dunkirk 60
(loops for carrying cannon for the descent
on England. The French, it is said, are
difcipiining their troops to teach them the
art of disembarking They fend out com
panies of them in boats, bearing their arms
and knapsacks, to return and land on their
own (hores, to make the pradtice familiar.
From the ARGUS.
We are told, that there is a Paris paper
intown, giving an account of a \th September
ifm having taken place in Holland ; that
the revolution is now completed in that
country, without the shedding of blood, by
a late arredation of a number of Orange
deputies, for tranfpartation: on this eternal
principle, " He who is not for ms is agaivjl
me." If wc (hould be so fortunate as to
lay our hands 011 this paper, we (hall cer
tainly give the article entire.
GOLDEN CAPTURE.
The British 74, Valiant, was spoke with
Feb. 23, just through the Gulph. She
was in company with 7 other (hips of war.
They had captured the Spanilh fleet from
Le Vera Cruz. \_Boflon Pap.]
letter from Charlelton, March 19,
fays, " a few days ago wc had a great
FIRE, which confuwed 12 houses—it be
gan in King-street."
BOSTON, March 24.
mr. Russell,
I hope no notice will be taken in the
Centinel, of any Roxbury transactions on
the mercantile qucftion which now occu
pies the attention of congrifr. Every rea
der of the abortion midwifed there on Tues
day lad, mud pronounce it " flat, dale
and nonsensical and when it is known
in congress, that the meeting was warned
on Monday, by a condable, who had his
cue whom to warn, and whom to leave un
warned, it will be consigned to the obliv
ion it deserves.
The father of the brat will readily be
recognised at Philadelphia, and the mem
bers will rightly edimate why he (hould be
opposed to arming. Perhaps they may at
tribute it to his regret, that being now ad
vanced in years, he cannot take those pojls
of danger he was accudomed to in the te
volutionary war.
f « W IMUUfJWI W1P I Vft'
Xt?e dinette,
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, March 31.
———
APPOINTMENTS.
Bradbury Cilley, Marftial New-Hariipfhirc
vice Nathaniel Rogers, appointed Super
visor.
William Empfon Hulings, of Pennsylvania
Vice Consul, New Orleans.
George Price, of Pennsylvania Mader of
the Revenue Cutter.
George Walton of Georgia, and
John Steel of Virginia, comuiiflloners for
treating with the Cherokee nation of In
dians, vice, Fiflier Ames and Bufhrod
Wafliington, resigned.
CoMvy\rcA rioxs.
Mr. Giles in his speech on Thtirfday lad
observed " He could fay for hirqfelf that he
never had adopted a fliort way ot getting
wealth nor had any thing to do with notes
or banks." Has Mr. G. forgotten the
Faro Banks ?—The writer of this commu
nication has seen him deeply engaged in that
| " (hort way of getting wealth," and his
| pockets pregnant with guineas obtained in
that honorable manner.
Mr. Giles, not fatisfied with complimen
ting himfelf on the pure manner in which he
has acquired his wealth, went on to extend
the applause to his political aflociates in
Congress. They are, said he, generally
Farmers, land-holders—'they have not engag
ed in destruCtive speculation —bought and
fold notes, &c. &c. Pray Mr. Giles,
do you consider Blair M'Clenachan and
Johny Swanwick as your aflociates in Con
gress ?
Rights of the Theatre.
Have coxcombs of every description the
right to diltnrb the audience by impertinent
remarks and loud conversation ? or is it the
txclufive privilege of the members of a cer
tain honorable house ?
Lad evening during the intcredisg per
formance of Mrs. Merry three Bucks in
truded themselves into a Box and although
they did not aCtually Spit upon the Ladies,
they otherwise behaved very improperly—ls
it pofiible that one of these gentlemen (hould
be the beautiful representative (in complete
tortoise (hell) from the city of New-York,
and another the Beau member from the an
cient dominion ?
Now is the time te Try Men's Souls.
Is the glorious spirit of '76 so humbled,
that Tories, inveterate Tories dare to raise
their creds, end insult our government and
its rulers ?
Printers who boast their republican prin
ciples, to be the retailers of such ahufe, and
to conceal the cloven foot of the Tory un
der the cloak of an American Merchant /
As to Bache, he aCts so far confidently
in publishing pieces from Tories or Devils,
provided tjicy heap abuse on the adminiltra
tion.— Why, Sir, be mealy mouthed, and
with fa!fe delicacy, or in other words,
Treachery, conceal their names from the
public ? If fnth publications have jmerit,
let Mr. Coxt have his full measure, and Mr.
Adams bluflj for difmifling hitn from office !
But the Moor cannot be washed white, lie
who began bis career by joining.the BritilTi
rtandard in opposition to his country, now
leagues with France on the fame principle
DIVIDE tf IMPERA.
Bache employsCallender to do the drudg
ery of his customary work, abusing the
friends of Freedom and Independence—
being himfelf very particularly engaged at
this juncture, in pursuits, the object of
which wilt be disclosed at a future day.
~ '
The drokes at the Tories in the Aurora,
are direCtly in the teeth cf the old proverb,
" never talk of a rope to him whvfe father
" was hanged."
The fevered attack ever, made on the Au
rora is contained in the Proposals for issu
ing another French paper, to be called
"THE ANTIDOTE."
From a CJ.il r \Jlnn Paper of March 16.
FRENCH COLONI7.AIION.
It is no new idea that the terrible republic
have contemplated thedivifion and coloniza
tion of the United States ; and we are ena
bled to announce, upon the authority of
letters, the credit of which are indubitable,
that Louifinir. and the Floridas have been
ceded by Spain to France, and are now ac
tually in her pofiefiion. This is a favorite
accefiion to our allies, and a main Hep to
the effecting of their purpose.
ExtraS of a letter received ly a mcml:r of
Congref, dated Charlejlon, Martb 16th.
" The i nolo fed is from Timothy's paper
of to day. I sent to him to know, on what
authority it was so positively gjven—he said
Messrs. Gairdner's & Co. had received let
ters from Penfacola, faying, that the French
flag had been fiving there for several days,
and desiring them to charter, and fend thi
ther, vessels to bring away the persons, and
property of some, who did not wifli to re
main under the French government."
For the Gazette of the United Stset.
The profits of Tuesday evening's theatri
cal entertainment are announced to be for
the benefit of Mr. Fennell. To expati
ate on this gentleman's merits as an aCtor
would be needless. The fatisfaCtion which
he so generally gives, and the applause which
he so uniformly meets with are the surest
criterions of his excellence, and although
the Managers have lately undertaken to pass
their cenl'ure upon his conduCt, yet certain
ly those who attend the theatre have no rea
son to complain of it. The inaccuracy of
the aCtors in their performances has been a
subjeCt of conftarit animadversion but if so
small a portion of time has been allottad to
them for committing to memory and study
ing their parts as was then given to Mr.
Fennell, it is not on them that the cen
sure of the public can with judice fall.—
When a man's character flands high in his
profefiion, it is natural for him to feel a more
than common anxiety to maintain it, and
therefore the resistance which this gentleman
made to acceding to a measure which he was
well, persuaded would have a prejudicial ef
fect on hia profeflional reputation wiil not
excite wonder.
The play which is to be performed is one
of Shakespeare's fined productions ; in few
does the genius of the Bard soar to a proud,
er and more exalted pre-eminence. The
chararters although various arc well delineat
ed and the leflon which is to be derived
from it is inflruCtive and important. If it
were neeeflary at this time any further to
ft'imulate the generosity of Philadelphia, it
might be hinted that, at this jundure a full
house would probably be peculiarly defirea
ble. THEATRICUS.
For the Gazette of the United States.
children's PLAY fumijhing REFLECTIONS
FOR MEN.
Walking along the flreets lad Evening,
when the Moon Ihone exceedingly bright,
ray passage was interrupted by a clutter cf
little boys, none of whom seemed to exceed
eight or ten years of age, engaged in some
pretty boiderous play. Being checked in
my gait, my attention was called to the chil
dren by hearing the terms Frenchmen and
Americans frequently repeated. I soon found
the little dogs had divided themselves into
two parties, under those denominations, and
were draggling with all their might forthe
pofieffion of a cellar door. In a little time
I heard (houts from the victorious party and
an animated cry of Huzza ! Huzza ! for
the Americans* wc have beat the Frinch
mi-n ! and sure enough, the little heroes,
who 1 fuppofercprefented their countrymen,
stood perched on the cellar, the dear objeCt
of conted, with the utmofl joy and exulta
tion. I purfned my walk, and this trifling
incident furnifhed me abundantly with seri
ous reflections. Have ycrr fathers the fame
spirit, was the firlt quedion that occurred to
me—Would they too exert themselves for
the American name and honour, and glory
in the triumphs of their country—or, is the
example they will set before you—the pre
ceptathey will inftilinto yourinfantine breads
calculated to dedroy the spirit ot exertion,
that pride in the name of an American,
which if cherished and (lengthened will form
a future bulwark for their country, impreg
nable to any foe—will your fathers by their
own condaft dcliafe you into vile depeadents
—lay yotir tender limbs at the feet of fo
reign ruffians, enervate their activity and ;
drength, train yoti in the habits and man
ners of fiavea, and dedroy the spark of ho- 1
nour, liberty and patriotism tiiat now glows j
in your little hearts—wiil they not only re- ;
f«f; their aid to their country in the hour !
of need, but crush its rifmg hopes. Could
we but find in our MEN the fame spirit, the
fame ardour of exertion, the fame refolutc
aftivity te defend their country and liberties
from foreign lnfnlt and invasion as was found
in il.efe children for the poflldion of a cellar
dtor, what apprtbeivT'crs need we have of
the Executive Oireitory or theirinfern?) de-
a— tm mmico
NEW-THEATRE,
Mr. Fewnell s Night.
TUESDAY EVENING, Apr#
Will be presented (for t! c firft time tkij feaiua) a
CcldStwf-d TpijgeclyV called
KING LEAR ;
AXD JUS THREE DAaCHTSRS.
Kinj: Mr. Fennell
Burgundy, Warrcll, jun.
Cornwall, liardingt
Albany, Fox
Olog.r, Warr.il
Kent, W:>rTvn
F.dpar. Wigncll
Ednitsnd, Maribs',l
Gentleman Uflier, Franci*
Oidmnr, Hunter
Goneri), Mr«. Hardirge
Reg jn » Mrs. Francis
Arancr. Mis, I,'Eftranec
Curdelti, Mrs. Merry
Kcijthfs attending on the King, Officers, M.l Ten.
gers, s:c M.ffn. lyavancyv Lafferty, Dnflor, See.
End of the Tragedy, a Ballet Dance (con.posed
by Mr. Byrne) culled,
THE DRUNKEN PROVf *CAL ;
OR, THE SAILOR'S RETURN".
Ivre, mr Byrne—Will, mr arn 11, jun Vi
car, mr DoAlor—Mofes, mr Elifiett BickeyOof
flip, mr X W .rrell.
Su!a.n, rniPs Millourne—Jenpy, nirs Byrne.
To vrhich *'i,l be added, a new Farce, called the
ADVERTISEMENT- '
OR, A NEiV WJr TO GET MARRIED.
[Written by Mr. Fennell.]
"> ouKg Gnf,v.il, Bernard
O' H rimjt
Peru que, Fox
' 'Try, Kartfood
Ti-omas, BUflVtt
Mrs. Courtney, Mrs. Francis
IV'rs Snip, Mrs. L*Ellranpe
Cc, ty. Mist : 'I flra. ga
Mrs. Du£lur
Tickets to be had at the ufu :1 places,
•ss* On Thursday Evening, the favorite Come
dy o' THE HUMORIST, or, WHO'S WHO?
THE WIDOW OF MALABAR; tOwhicfcvdU
lie added, the Farce ol the WANDERIS'O JEW,
for the Benefit of Mr- Harwood.
The Subscribers have For Ssle,
The following GOODS, viz.
Red and blue Bernagore Handkerchiefs
Fantipore do.
Sutrornal do.
Dorcas
ChfctV MUSL,NS
Book 3
Hum mums
Coarfc striped cotton Cloths
Black and other coloured Indian Taflhics
Do. do. C hinefe do,
Elack and white Chinese Sattins
Blue and white do. Lute ft rings
Heavy black Pepper
A Isinglass
Cordage afTorted
Old Madeira Wine
Port do.
Sheiry do. in quarter ca&j
Claret in cases
Holland Gin in pipes
Englilh Perry
An iron Book Cafe
PHILIPS, CRAMOND Ist Co.
march 31. 31
FOR SALE,
Al l. that elegant three story Brick Koure, brick
Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on tha
fotith welt comer of Fourth and Prune flreas,
containing in front on F. urth llreet 33 feet, and
111 length on Prune ftrctt 98 leet, to a four feet al
ley intended to be left open with common privi
lege of the fa ne.
Alio, a two story brick House ani! Let of Grout 4
situate 0:1 the weft fide »f Fourth firset and ad
joining tha above, containing in bre uhhon Fourth
llreet 15 feet 6 inches, and in depth 98 feet 0,1 the
said four f.et alley, with the common privileges of
the fame.
And also, all that Lot of Ground fitintc oa tha
weft fide of Fourth street and adjoining the lait
described lot, cont: i ing in breadth on Fourth
street 1.5 feet 6 inches, and in 'cpth on the tiorta
fide icifeit, thence running fouchwjrd 11 feet 6
inches, thence farther wel'.ward 12 f, et, thence
: i:l further fouthwvrd 14 feet, and thnnct by the
Chanel-ground 114 feet to Fourth Aria, with the
common use of the said four l'cet alley leading in
to Prune street The whole wi'l be iold together
if more ygricable to the p»rch?.f r.
For terms, enqnirt of the fubferiber, at his of.
sice, No. 124 South Fourth llreet.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
inarch ]l. __ 3«wtf
A House and Lot in Burlington,
FOR HALE,
\ LARGE commodious two story brick House,
•OL and large well improved Garden ; with a
CJover I .ot, a stable, a Carriage House, anil
Spring House, &c. in the City of Curlitgton,
New Jersey.
property is allowed to be the most healthy
and beautiful ot any in Burlington, hawing a frene
of 360 f(.et upjn the river, and extending 208 feet
kack ; bounded on fide oue by Broad-street, and oa
the back by a wide all*y.
The house is in form of a fqtrare, fronting 54
feet upon Broadrftreet. and upon the river.-
with a pump of water at tbe backdoor, btfidrs
two fine fprir.p-s Tifing ©ut of the beautiful bank
be?ween the garden and the river.
Fer particulars, apply 3t No. 5, Seuth Fourth
ftrect, to
GEO. WALKER.
Who has also For Sale,
Lots in Washington City.
njiarch 31. §
For Savannah,
(To fii'd on Saturday the 71b of April)
. THE SHIP
SWIFT PACKET,
{ GRiKßtttN, Master.
v i'S^ZiA regular efl ablifhod Pocket with
- elegant arcommoc tions For
freight or palTage apply to the MaHer on board at
Rcf 'a v, harf, or tp
A- & J* Frazcr t
Ko. 95, tffout Street,
have for sale a quantity oi prime new kica
by f*id vesseL
mr.rch y
Joseph Ricardo,
OF thi« City, Merchmt, has nlfigned his pro
perty,for the benefit cf his Creditors, te Janus
C. 1 idler, Samuel W. Fiihcr, n.d 1 homas Wilfun.
All persons who have demands are re
qurned' to f'triMih their accounts without delav
and tliof- ?»d ;»trd to rr\l:e itumedkitc payment tu
the Su' fcfib 'ri, AtDjfneos.
yanet C. Iff Samuel Ji\ FiOjer.
No. 13, /'rtkStreet.For Sale,
By Elliston John Perot,
No 41, North IVater Street,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipes and
quart r calks, 4 years old and fit for immediate use.
Inferior do.
A lew hales Allibad Colfes
Ba> danna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvals, No. 1, to q
A tew bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel of Soal Leather, a id
A few boxes of China.
march y tuScf4w
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
aAd do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply. —Enquire of the Printer*
February 7 §
% Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be ma<!e for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, ftan'ing in the name of the Subscri
ber. No. JOO4, and dated July IX, 1797 —the fame
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 s6 w
to" let,
Anu may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three floiirs high, and in an excellent fland for
b"fiaef». Apply 10
Thomas (Sf Jefhua Filler,
march 1. 5 No 5, Uock-i'rcrt._
Wanted to live in the Country,
About fivr miiesfrom this city, a fiber ftca
day Man who linderftands gardening and the
management of a few acres of land, an 1 would
not obje<!\ to attend a couple of horses Such
a one may meet with liberal wages by applying
at the office of this Gazette.
N. B- Noae need apply but those of unex
ceptionable characters.
March 13. dta
Custom House,
DiJlriß of Pennsylvania, Martb 6th, 1797,
HPHE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
X who may have any account or knowledge of
the capture or detention of any fbip or vtflel, #ar
yo, rr other property, belonging to citizens of the
\Jnited States, residing within this diftrld, by or
iinder the authority of foreign nations, l.nce the
firft day of O&obrr, 179 a, ai-c particularly reques
ted tofcive in information tlurcoi, to the Collec
ter of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may
be conveni- nt ; fpecitying the name ot the veiTcl,
the captain's name, the number o tons, the esti
mated value of the v■.-flel, if condemned, the esti
mated V ilueof her cargo, or other property, whi
th r carried, and by. or under the authority of
what nation with such observations as
n?ay he thought necc-ffary upon the ciremittances
of each cafe, in order that (lacements thereof may
be tr nfmitted to the Secn'taiy of the i'reafury,
who is required'to lay »hf fame before th<» Senate
and House at Reprefentativesof the United States,
marcli 7- 'Qt
wanted,
A Gardener—a Single Man.
None netd apply, unless he can bring good re*
commendatioßs.
Enquire
march P. t 2W
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON fc? LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanntr's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
ifl nnd ad proof Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wine,
juniper Berries, &c. &fc.
ff- Feb. 9. eodtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
Fo:> S /fl F,
T HAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of 1
General John Cadwaladei, fruate on Saffafras Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bowr 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and cmfift of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow hou'es. Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading ftyor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two- ran
ges of two (lory buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house, &c.&c.—The whole Eflate being nearly
fur rounded by water, k requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring 6(h ry. It is
conveniently fitaated for both the Philadelphia and
Falrimore markets, with two land ngs on a navi
gal le rivir but a (hort fai! from Baltimore. There
is a Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
thepiemif«s; aifo, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole wilt b« f Id together, or divided into
frr aller far his (for which the buildings areconven
icnt!y fituatcd) as may suit the purchaser. The
. Stock on said Farm, confining of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be disposed of——For further
particulars apply to Georoe Hastings, on the
oremifes, or to the fubfeiher, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jus.
February 24. »aw6w
Balkenridge—for sale
IT cot lifts of 910 acres, «lmoft all ol which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Ba'l of Stirling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farrr.s, four of which are bounded on the
Ba?k by the river I' fniek.
1 hr- are on it a number of buildings, forming
afy-iare o nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one and a fmallexpence would
it in complete repair.
The orchard conufls of 150: fin *bearing engraf
ed Apple Frees—and there is on other pirts ot said
tra near 30c other Apfk Frees—as also a great
varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries ot the
and mofl delicious kinds.
Also, a-great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Tree*-, that add to th<> beauty and conveni
ence of. the pla- e Us lituation is about 18 miles
from -he towns of Newaik and Elizabeth : 10 do.
/rem Morris Tnwr, and 11 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
f'o favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafli, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN 8c Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
FeUru ary 1. aodtf
Canal Lottery—No. If!
WILL commence drawing Monday, the loth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
StTtrn fyilhrii at WM BLACKBURN'a Lotrery
and Broker* Office, No. 641 South Secoud-flreet—
Tickets inthc -chuyik.ll Bridge Lotrery, at 7V.
StoUan, where check books arc kept tor register
ing and examining in these, the Oity o Washing
ton. No. Il.an i Patt.rfon Lotteries, and informa
ti.m where tickets maybe had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the : tates of the
Union
N B. The b.Ghefsof a BaoKta. inbuyirgand
fcili' g all kin ot Public Stock and Securities,
nific>»ting Bdls and N tcs of Hand, sale of
l auds, Hou'es, Jtc. Sic. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
fyovembcr 15. |
On Tuesday, the 10th day of
April next, at 7 o'clock in the evening, at
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Philadelphia,
WILL lie exposed to public sale, fevenfess
tiafts or parcels of land fitnated in Point
township in the county of Northumberland, and
containing in the whole fix thiufand seven hun
dred and sixty-sour acres and three quarters,
with the usual allowance for roads
Terras of sale, 1-3 of the furchafe money on
the execution of the deed, i-j in three months,
and 1-3 in fix months, in good notes or other
approved fecarity
CONNELLY & Co. Auff.
March 9. iawtn dtl a
PROPOSAL^
For Publijbing by Subscription,
AN
E N I R Y
INTO THE
ORIGtI OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES.
THE Letters to Dr. t urrie, which I puMifhed i
lift autumn, led me to an invefligation of
the origin and phenomena of pestilential diseases
in other countries, as well as in the United St tes.
In the prof' cution of the fubjed»-new fa<sls anr!
principles continually opened to my view, and si
nally determined me to trace back the history of
such diseases as far as the records of hi (lory ex
tend. For this putpofe, I have examined the pub
lic libraries in New-York, New-Haven, Cam
bridge and Boflon, with a view to obtain a'l the
material fads which can illustrate the fubje<sl,and
I have nearly colle<sted all the materials for the
propof?d work.
The la As eelL died will enahlfe me to demoii
flrate that many of the common ideas refpc&ing
pcftilential epidemics, arc unfounded or extreme
ly in correal ; and this in consequence of medical
writers cenfidering an epidemic disease as a detach
ed or isolated phenomenon in a particular coun
try ; rather than as conne&ed with other epide
mics or other phenomena of hature in various
parts of the world The fails I have collc<sted
lead to certain dedu&iohs which are furprifingto
ttiyfcli, and which will probably be new to many
others. Much light will be thrown on this dark
and p rplcxing fubjeffc, as well as on natural phi—
losophy.
The proposed work will make a full Gzed o<sta
vo volume ; and executed well on fine paper, can
not be afforded at lels than two dollars, bound,
With the usual allowance to book-fellers. As the
compilation will cost not only great labor,but con
siderable cxpence, no more copies will be printed
than to supply fubferibers. The book will be rea
dy for fubferibers early in the coming fumraer, and
the holders of proposals will be good enough to
return them to jio. 40, Pine-street, by the fir ft of
May.
Subscriptions received by the book-fellers in
New-York, Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartford, Naw-London, Providence, Boston, Bal
timore and Ch?rle(lc>.
NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
march 28.
AT 1 LA ST.
This Day ii Publilhed, by William
Cobbett,
OPPOSITE CHRIST CHURCH,
The Democratic Judge,
OR THE
EQUAL LIBERTY of the PRESS,
As exhibited, explained and expufed, in th?
prosecution of
WILLIAM COBBETT,
FOR A PRE TENDED LIBEL AGAfNST
The Jkipr of Sfaln and his Embajfador, before
THOMAS M'KEAN,
Chief J-u#licr of the --tate of Pennfylyania.
By Peter Porcupine.
JuJi received, and for Sale at the Boekjlore of
WILLIAM YOUNG;
No. 5, South Second street.
A COMPLETE HISTORY OF
CONNECTICUT,
CIVIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL,
From the emigration of it 3rd planters from En
gla'iiin l6}o, to 1713.
By BENJAMIN TRUMBULL, d. pi
VOLUME I.
Embelliftied with a correS Map of the State, anß
Portraits of £ome of the firft settlers, from origi
nal paintings.
match 15. tieojw
Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-street.
George Davis,
IMPRESSED with the favors (hewn him in Hh
efforts to cflablifh a Store for the sale of Law
Book only, begs leave to inform the Gentlemen
' of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
that in addition to his colle&ion now on hand,
which he fuppoles to be more extensive, than in
the pofllfiion of any one person for sale in Ameri
ca, h< expe&s daily very large supplies from Loh
! don & Dublin, particularly from the latter place,
having chiefly confined his importations to those edi
tions, a- being in his opinion equally correal with
the London -opies, and well known to be infinitc
j ly lower charged.
G. D limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of Law
Book*, it will appear obvious to profeflional gen
tlemen the great advantages they have in purchasing
from him. bcth as to fele&ion and price, of which
the encouragement t e has received for fever-l
pad, is the bell testimony he can offer.
ft arch 20. 3awjw
FOR SALE"/ AT
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. t2, Second flreet, the corner of Chefmjt street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Repr.fentativesof tt.eljnited btites, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
againtt WILLIAM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
! Uni'ed States, impeached of high crimes and mi f.
1 demeanors, made In "urfuance of a resolution oi
the House of Rej-refentatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
infttuiling ch m " to enquire, and, hy all lawful
" means, to discover the whole nature and ext nr
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" Hands impeache., and who are the parties and
" aflociatcs therein."
Printed by order of the House of Representatives
Decemli.r 20
Piiion Manufactory.
FOR S-4LE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of allfizes, from siy to lody
Flooring Brads. Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Satl!ers Thread
Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea (tones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window head*, fills, c .
All which may he had on reafonahlr terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, diretScd to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the paifon, will be attended to.
December 26 mtMm
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including I-ong Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would a; fwer the purpefe of
a country Printer as well as new.
Er. quire ot :h« Printer.
City Comiiiiffioner's Office,
'January nth, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THt CITIZEN!.
T ''HE following arrangement is made by the
X (aid commilfioners, for cleansing the
street?, ScC
Diflrift No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south tide of Mulberry flreet; t»
lie under the fuperintendar.ee of Nicholas Hicks.
2 From the south fide of Mulbrry itreet, to
the south fide »f Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperwitendance of William Moulder.
3. From the sooth fide of _£Jiel'nut street to
the north fide ef Spruce street, to* be under the
fuperintendance of Jolieph Claypoo'e.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar ftrtet, to be under the fu
perintendance of Uwb Roberta.
When pumps ire out of order south of
High-flreet, plcafe apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner Of Sonth an J Fifth-ftrsetn, er Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, near Chcfnut-flreet ; and north of
High flreet, to Dixey and Dehaven, in Saffafras
ftrret between Sixth and S-venth-flrects
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
with the Lot on which i' is erected, situat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and he«lthy
Village o? Bordentown. The house is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
tontains one acre, andisone hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back flreet. Also, a large Lot, eon
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
w II be give* as the purchaser may chufe. This
property will be fold free ef all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
Wflliam Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near
the premises, w ho will shew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No 43; Mulberry-street.
December a. 3awtf
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House in
Bolton.
It is needkfs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of theßofUn Glass, as it is i'o well known
throughout the United States to be in every rtf
peft greatly superior to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cat to any size commonly used ; and
may be conflantly had by applying to Charles F.
K"pfcr, at the Glaf- Houle.
Orders from the diilant States to be addreffcd to
W- Samuel Core, Court-flraet, Boston.
0- Two or thre* s;ooJ Glass makrs are want
ed at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, maybe lure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L. Lindt, at
she works. Men without families v> ill be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of reaking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
Bolton, January 16 »• lawfiw
New-fort, February, 1798.
/^OPO,S4WbvGEORGEFORMAN,
FOR PRINTING BV SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tantonly fix months—entitled
PRQOFSof a CONSPIRACY against
all the Religions ami Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in the secret meeting# of.! 7 ree
Masons, Uluminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lected from good authoritiff ,
- By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
i*r*f -Jjur of Natural Pbilofophy, and Secretary to tit
Royal Soeiety of Edinburgh.
Nam tua ret agitur paries cum proximus arJef.
»Pr THIS work will be put to prefsas soon as
403 futferihers are obtained,andno money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lt (hall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of fn
perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat odlavo, handsomely bound and lettered
—the price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Those who procure la fubferibers, and become
accountable, fhail have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
The above work comes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
eftimatioa m the literary world—the fafts therein
recorded are well substantiated, and thereafoning
and arguments thence deduced, while they disco
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amul'e as well at to in
ftruft. A fccne of villainy is developed by the
author fufficient to appal the stoutest heart The
danger to be apprehended from secret societies is
clearly pointed out; the degeneracy of hnman na
ture awfully illustrated, and the hazard of every
deviation Irom the straight path of religion and
of virtue, inconteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the christian by stubborn and iucontro
vertable f«fts.
t+t Subscriptions taken in by G. Forman, No. 46,
Wtlham-jlreet, oppoftte the Pefl-OJjKt, and by the re/pec
tine bookfeellers in New-York and Philadelphia,
February 28.
NewTorJt, January 24, 1798
PROPOSALS
By Arpndt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing bv Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Miniller of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in a
vo's. oftavo. of 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subfcnhers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and 30 cents per vol
ume—one third of the Subscription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the r«r
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made
2? Subscriptions are taken at the Reading-
Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing
office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Bookstores in New-York - Also, by William
Young, corner, f Second and Chefnut flreet, and
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
compleated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb. 10. eodam
For Sale,
A good foliation for a Country Scat,
FORTY acres of land on the Old York Road,
within fight of Germantown and about five miles
from the City, the whole being under good fence,
and in excellent crder as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Ckesson, at his office for the
sale of Real Ellates, Conveyancing, &C. No. .54,
High-street.
ad mo. 36th. jawaw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pnrfuance of the Aft of Congress passed on the filth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, c.titled " An Aft laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
Aft passed on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand fcven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
" An AA to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the Aft enti
tled " An Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Piper", that from and alter the
firft day of July cnf«ing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be leviea and collec
ted throughout the United States.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, *pon which fhail be
written or printed any or either of the instruments or writings lollowihe—to wit:
Dh Cts. | Mlt
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ..... j
Any Licence to praftice,or Certificate of the admiflion, enrolment orregiftryof
anv Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proftor, in any Court of the
United States, ... . l 0
Provided, that a Certificate in anyone of the Courte of the United States
for one of the said Officei, (hall l'o far as relates to the payment of the
duty aforefaid, be a fufficient admiflion in all the Count of the United
States, for each and everv of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted tor military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fui.h grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondenti-a Bond, - - 1
Any Receipt or dif harge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will ore
ther testamentary instrument, or for any share or part of a personal estate di
vided by fori eot any statute of diftrfbutnns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafecl, the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and fhail not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... . 25
When the«amount thereof fhail exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
fhail not exceed five hundred dollars, - - - 50
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of X
Any Policy of Insurance or ins rßment in Hature thereof, on any (hip, veflel or
goods insured from one diflrift to another in the United States, ij
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which |
Insurance is made fhail not exceed five hundred dollars, - 50
When the sum insured fhail exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Ary Exemplification, of what nature foaver, that thall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular date, - 50
Any 9ond, bill single or peßal, foreign or inland -bill of exchange, promiff ry
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or wiih the United States or any ftatr, or for their
uferefpeftively, - - - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one ttaiifaml dcllars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - - ...
I Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within ftxty days,
such bonds or notes /hall be fubjedl to only two fifth parts of the duty
afarefaid —viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - | 4
If aboveooe hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, I 10 J
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one ihoufand dollars, 1 10 <
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes issued by the banks now eflablifhed, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an aanufl composition, ot one per centum on the annual dl.
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholder* reipeftivriy, according to
the following scale. .....
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - 0
On all notes above fiftv dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, <0
C n all notes above one' hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - 2
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, ....
Any Lettei of Attorney, except for an invalid pension, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for milittry services
performed io the late war, - - 1$
Any Certificate or Debfnturf for drawback of Cuftomt or duties, for less than
five hupdretj dollars ..... 1
Fpr five hundred dollars an l not exceeding two thousand dollars, 1
For more than two thousand dollari, ... 3
Any iwte or bill of lading for g"ods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diflrift to another diftrift of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - - . - to
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, • 15
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, gooils or effafts, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels diflrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal proi- fs hy any offii er,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a Aare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
II above twenty dollars and Rot excieding one hundred dollars, • 10
If above one hundred dollars, ... 25 T
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten tents for one hundred dollars.
H.
The dutiesaforefaid will be collefted received by the Supervisors, Infpeftors aud other Officers
of Infpeftion, in the several Diltrift«, Surveys and Divisions of the United states, and by such other
pcrfons as fhail from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrifts for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervisors of the several Diftrifts will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as f<j>on as
may be practicable, mark or stamp, without fee O' reward, any quantities or parcelsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with iiny of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
stamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the of tion of the Citizens of the United States, be'ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, ! y ippliiation to any Supervifcr, Infpeftor, Officer of Infpeftion,
or other person appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrifts
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year -tbovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treujury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demand* agaiuft
the estate of Willam Fliewtood, of
Liverpool, late of merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and tKofe who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, \
No. »j, So. Third-street. \ Adm ' n 'J lr r
January 4. dtf
Just Publiftied,
And to be had at the Book-fiores of Mefirs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and O&mkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting er Bilious
Fevers.
To ivh'tcb it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions ard prailiccof
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa&s and reflections relative to
the Synotbut Ifteroidts, or Yellow Fever, which
hat occafnned so much diftrefh and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of rh« United Spates of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of i hyficians,
and Member of the American Philo:of hical So
ciety. Feb. i—".jmS
For falc or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground /
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hcufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient flr>res, wharf, &g. fituateon
Water street, between Mulberry an'J Saflafras
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing en the north fide, and areji very dofirablefit
uatien for a a merchant, flour faifW, or others
who may have ocrafion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further information apply
t« the printer.
July J*. m&wtf
July ji
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propafing to contrail his bufi
oef», offers ibis Eftste for Tale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of Hones ; also a good Forge, all
in perlcft repair,asareallthe Water Works conneft
ed wiih tuefe various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately built lor the purpose of calling Cannon
f.r this State. —There are abou two thousand acrea
of Land, one half of which isundet wood, theother
verj fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Pallure, The Cannon lately manntati.red thtre,
lully proves the excellency of the metal, which U
lupeiiot to any in this country, and probably, eqaal
> o any in (he world { for not one of si xt y*oite nuns
lat, ly mide, alth. ugh some of the 34 were bored
""" 3 J pounders have t.ilid on proving. The fitu
anoti is very eligible, particularly for this braach of
manuta&ur*-, and a place ol arms lying in the date
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land,
ings on the Hudfon'a liver, and having every advan.
;<ge thai can rcfult from a pltnty of water issuing
I'om a large natuia' pond, very near the Furnace,
and whi h may be converted into a variety of other
uleful purpolea. Ihe purchaser can beaccommodat
ed with all iheitock and uienliis, and hav« polreffion
on or before the fii U of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mi an time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good>order, with some coa., Ore, Ac. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr Joleph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, E'q one of the Reprrfentativea
in Congress tor this Stale; Mr, U-vid Waterman, on
thepremifes, or totheptoDiietai in New-York.
WILLIAM NEII.SON.
' ■ 3» wtf
A 0 T I C E.
ManufaSory of yellow and delft ivare f '
Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been lately ercfted at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
on the East Bank of Hudfon*s River, ftafe of Newg
York, here any article of various forts and shapes
may be executed, as well as carthern (loves upon a
new conftru&ion, that saves three fourths the fuel
commonly used in cast iron stoves or open chymnies 5
they arc brfides very wholesome and ornamental, by
•pplyiogto
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the baking and
glazing part of the said ware. Generoua appoint,
znents will be given* Apply or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Street.
, 9* eod4w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large an ) convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—f»r whkh a generoua
rent will be given; to be taken far a year, or on
more for a lunge, turn. laquircof th» Printer.
O*. »7« .-tf