, o
4- feM lei I - 1 * '• <
®tuf ft fMfltfcS, P
Bv |oh \ T Ward Fen no, N°- no Cbefcrt Street.
"hv,V!BM 1918.]" PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 9, 1798. {Volume XIV. .
The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers re ft ding in theVity of Philadel- M
phia. All ethers pay one dollar ad- Co
ditional, for enclosing and diretting; Co
and unless some person in this city will g ;'
■become answerable far the subf crip-, oi
tun,, it mufi be paid Six Months in
'advance. _ j
For SALE or CHAR 1 ER,
THE SHIP da
MOLLY, an
Burthen 4*oo barrels of Flour, __
Philadelphia hnilt, well found
fitted, and may be ready
\o receive i cargo in a few daye—the is pitrtffcl
i 8 gifts *n'd mounts n r.':w fix pounders, with
("mail arms in proportion.
1 HE stilP I
xjA-r- DIANA, |
Burthen i,ico barrels of Flourj
r 'hs!adelphia bwlr of live oak '"I
ctdai 1 , U pierced for four- »
'teen puns,'end mounts ten new Foilr potfnders,
■with final! arms m proportion.
THE BRIG _
JMm. AMAZON,
Burthen 1,300 barrels os-Flour,
New-England built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready forfea j
in a few days. i
For terms apply to
JVICKLIN SSf GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale P
an board fundiy vejfeh at Marcus-Hook,
.li 000 hulhels of Liverpool fine fait
1, too bushels of coals
180 crates of queens ware assorted
7 tierces of bottled porter
jo barrels of roleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
■a-flhantity of yellflw ocre in casks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrel*mineral black do. '
15 barrels Spanilh brown do.
35 boxes of pipes 1
9 1 bo s s * hite Z HAVANA SUGARS 3
89 do. brown ) p
"3,5C01b». pritpe cochineal ' e
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits t<
ao bale 3 of fail canvafa F
3J9 sheets of copper, a(T»rted from 48 by 24 ti
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tubs raised still bottoms assorted
36 fix pound girns feet, Bicwt each
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lb» each
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks mullins add shawls
14 cases lnuflinefs, dimities and gmghams j,
»8 chests coloured nankeeas, muflinets, &c.
'll truiiks U-sinlcd calitoej
6 bales of whits and coloured caffimeres
1 bale of eourfe woollens
English nails assorted. 1
Oinober27. fri.&fat. tf.
For Sale.
r PHE Subscriber* intending to decline tho
i DaUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
•whole Stock of
Drags and Medicines, Instruments, &U.
The (hop is elegant, and fvfiki- I
ently known for the cxtenfive hulinefs < one in the <
wholefole an l r-tail line ; the fittlifiun to j
any in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and
Second streets. The whole, or any part of the 1
Stock, will bo fold, as wiH heft suit the ptrrchafer.'
Thu terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
IVlo has For Sale,
Well calculated for the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber bufmefs.
All jperfons indebted to the law firm
Go!(fl!m*ait ]]aid-win, IV. 3 Goldthivai't, Gold
tbirak & Mtort, or the fubfcriSer, arc earnestly .
iet|ttelled make fpcedy paywent to
JAMES MOORE, JUN.
augqst
Ship Brokers.
This Eft aMifiiy*enr, commenced Hy the late Mr.
Samuel Smith, will be continued by
Row Js* Simmons,
WHO rcfpeAftilly acquaint the Merchants,
Traders, and Matters of vefTels; that no ]
or exertions H>all be wanting to give general
fatfcfaAiou «Thi» business w!!l be cotiduil id at their
:itsre, No. 1 07, South Water Street, uear to the
Caflom Houft.
t>iober 27 dtf
For Sale, or Charter, 1
tuil dajnish brio
Louisa,
NOW lying at Burlington,a vc
uikr. —For teimsappyto
JACOIJ SHOEMAKER.
WHO HAS FOR S.YLE,
r cargo, of abeut 2,000 bufhcls of J
St. Martin's Salt.
JC mo. 14th, *9B d.lot.
Wanted to Charter,
FOR BALTIMORE,
A Small Vessel,
FROM four to five hundred barrels ■
CfiVrieti. PETER BLIGHT.
Whose Counting House
has opeaed, as usual, this day.
uo*. I diw
Elliston if? John FfikoT,
Have for Saie, at ,r<
N"<i>. 41,.North Water-Street,
Mul'coratio Sugar 3amUni Handkerchiefs O
Copper in (lieets A nails Matln , 3 wine
Copper Ore >oal Leatler and &
Lignnm V't* A few barrel* S'jad and R<
Sail Canvass Herrings P;
Oinabrigs
Also For Sale>
BERMUDA-PACKET,
- Burthen 108 tons--Bermu g
da built, mounts uguns, fails remarkably fait Ti
and is well found. Pi
nov 8 w&fjwr L<
For Sale, si
At the Merchant's Coffce-Haufe, on Wedntjday
the 14tb injl. at 7 o'clock in the evening,
j—*. The faji failing sair,
CHARLOTTE, "
Of about 104 tons burthen, p
is a well fuund Veflel, hav
ing lately had a very cttmplea: repair both in
Hull and Rigging, the inventory may be seen at
any time previous to the lale by applying at the
Auilion room of
RICHARD FQO7 MAN & Co.
nov 8 3t
AVIS AUX FRANCOIS,
, -^ e Parlementaire
; LA VIC TO IRE, ■
1 d'une marchc fupcrieure partiri
15 prefix, direflcmeut pour lc
Port Republicain, ceux' qni
defirent y prendre paflage font prie# de fe rendre a
Philadc'phieavant la dita epoque. ...
s'adreiTer a New York ciwz McfTieurs Blanche
reau and Cazcnenve, jarnrs Ureet, No. zo> and a
Philadelphie chcz Fs. Breu'il, Armateur du dit
batiment Sprace street.No. 115.
Le 5 Nevembre, 1798 * djt
AVIS AUX FRANCAIS.
<*!-. Le ' Parlementa'ire le
affisfa BENJAMIN FRANKLIN,
Connu par fa marche lupericure, par-
Minm^tira le 12 prefix, direclement p-ur
5 Jerem'le; ceux qui dedrent y prendre paflage font
prieidd fe rendre a Philadelphie atant ia dite
epoque.
S'adreffer a New York chez Meflieurs Blauche
reau and Cazeneuve, James street, No. ao,and a
Philadelphie chez Fis. Breuil, armateur dudit ba
-4 timent Spruce street, N©. I is*
le 5 nov. 1798 *
For Savannah, (Georgia.)
Xj^^3^ TIIE FAST SAILING coppered SHIP
'Richard West, Mailer,
TO fail in tea days.—For freight or paflage ap
ly to STEPHEN KINGSTON,
No. 46, Walnut Street.
' ' -T'T 'r' frf.o'*■*(> -
140 Boxes of Havanna Sugar,
And a box of Mace, for sale.
nov«mber 6 eo6t
ISRAEL PLEASANTS £ff Co. J
No. 74, South Secondflreet, j
lc Have returnedfrom the country ; and have for
SAIE, as usual, a large ajfartment ef , 1
DRY GOODS,
i- Imported in the last vrflels fro 11 Europe, consisting
ie of articles principally suited to the prefsnt and ap
to proaching season
id They are determined to fell off very low for
ic cash or Ihort credit.
r. f«Jcte. All perlons indebted to the late firm of
Samuel Pleajants Of Sens, are desired to make im
mediate payment to thi- fabfcrilicrs.
Ifra£l. Pleafants CS 3 Co.
1 Nov. 1 d4w
> FRUITS, WINES, &fc.
- MALAGA WINE, in butts
l, SHERRY ditto, in quarter casks
ly BRANDY, in butts pipes
iri SUN-RAISINS, in kegs
[s MUSCATEL do. in box js
fs. BLOOME do. in do.
* SOFT SHELLED ALMONDS in facbs
ly OLIVE OIL iu boxes of 12 bottles
BITTER & JORDAN ALMONDS in
boxes, &c. .
FOR SALE BT
PETER KUHN,
No. 178, North Market street.
Nov, a dl°t
The Subscribers
Are now Landing—For Sate,
St. Croix Rum—Muscovado Sugar
Red Port Wine,
In pipe*, hog(heads and quarter Calks.
Two thousand bulhels of Salt,
10 Eighteen iron Six pounders' proved at Woolwich,
al Philips, Cram on J, & Co.
:^r November 3 diot
he —,
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WIT :
_ BE IT REMEMBERED,
THAT on the twelfth day
IL Sj of August.in the twenty-third year of
W V " A the Independence of the United States of
America, Benjamin Smith Barron, of thefaiddif
/c- tri«t, hath deposited in this office the title of a
book ttoe right whereof he claims as author in the
words following to wit :
"New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
of " Nations of America—By tftfojJmin Smith Bar
r ton, M. D.Corr«fpondcnt Member of the Socie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
** the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
~ " the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
** Bollon, CotrefpoDdidg Member of the Maffa
" chufetts Historical Society, and Profcflor of
" Materia M«dica, Natural Hiflory and Botany
M in the UniverAty c£ Pecnfylvania "
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the
els 1 State*, intitled " An a" for the encourage
nwnt of learning by securing th? copies of maps,
cii irts,and to the authors and proprietor,
of iuch colics uuring the timcsther.in mentioned.'*
A AMU£L CALDWELL, C crk, Dill, of Tenn*
November 2, 17^8..
jfust Imported,
Iron cannon, fortified, Woolwich proof, In
with their carriages complete—j, 4,6 and 9
pcurjde.'»,
Carronadcs, Wnolwlah proof, with carriages, &c.
complete— 11, 1S and 14pounder*. ,
Cannon nowdur in kegs of 25lbs each -A
Round, double headed,and c-.nnift.r (hot
Parent (hearhing copper, h.-isht, aiTorted 18,10, Oj
it, 24, 16 and 18 nr p-jr fqusre!foot, fcc.ta 4S
by 14 inclus, fuitatle for vdfch irom 100 to Ef
icop tens W
Copper nails, fcoltt and spike» Su
Boarding Pikes, O!
Common cutlaflTcs Ju
Gunners (lores of all lcindi A
Tin-plates No I—l-3 croft U"xes
Paunt (hot in calks of scwt. each
London porter and brown ftaat, in calks of 7 doz.
honied.
Earthen ware ih crates, aiTcrted
, For Sale' ly
SIMON WAI.KER,
Pins near sth street.
October K;. eo.tf.
LANDING, ~"J
> From On board the Brig Amiable Matilda, r
Richard Stites, Mailer, from Cape JL
Nichala Mole. w
e 2% Bales Socks and Flannel Drawers ") Z 5 n!
18 Do, Gaiters | 5
2 Do. Rugs 1 m - -- v m
1 Do. Havre Sack" j cj fr
a Do. Flannel Tiowfws J 3nf 3 d
-2 Do. Tents, J f
Also just Imported, "
Jai the Ship Chcfapeake, Captain Webb, f.em P 1
5 Liverpool,
! 147 Cr ites of Queen's Ware, cc
ii Assorted particularly to luit the Weft-India
a Market—For Sale by
Thomas & John Ketland.
> novemher 7 § Q
it FOR SALE,
By the Subscribers, [
• The *C a r go
• c
Of the Jhip Lotiifa,
Captain Champlin from St. Petersburg, 2
CONSISTING OF
> HEMP aad BAR IRON.
ir
'e In the jhip Dispatch,
Captain B enners > h° m Hamburg,
: : 15 boxes Linens,
and a quantity of
Sheathing Copper,
And the remainder of jhip Rich
" mend's CARGO, from Calcutta,
containing a variety of
Coarse and fine Muslins,
and an elegant assortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs. , 1
Mordecai Lewis.
Phihdelrh".T,nov. 7 d.^w
Jujl imparted in jhips A
tniable and Jean,from London, a
A quantity of Cannon,fizes 4,6 & 9 lb.") with halls
Ca-ronades, 12 lbs. J fuitabl*. Q
Mufquets, Mufquetoons,Cutlafles W
,r Piiiols, for (hips use, I «
Rifled barreled Guas, Fowling Pieces, 1 § »
and Horfeman'sPiftols, f m"St
4~c,000 Flints, cr.icfly for muskets, in ' 3*
i>. ke e s -. . V- J
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
or bards, in calesof .50 tach,
Light Cavalry Swords in Cifes
Sabres, Swords and Cuthffos, witls plated mounting c
q. Ironmongery arid Cutlery in calks, a general as
sortment—For Sale by I
T/ximas & Jno. Ketland, a
Philad. O&ober 25. J ;
Whereas the certificate of two
(hares of the Bank of the United States in the
name of Samuel Amory, of London, banker,
No 3lß2,ifTued in lieu of 11593, it 594, were
forwarded from London by the Briiilb packet
Coiintefs, of Leicester, cipt. D<sdd, hqiintl for
New-York, which packet was captured by the
French, and the laid certificate loft ; and for the
renewal of which, application is made at laid
Bank, and all persons concerned are desired to
take notice.
115 CLEMENT BIDDLE.
Fhila. OA. t6, 1798. eo6w
in ' To Let,
THE house, No. 78, North Se- ,
cend street, with or without a (lore and ftabl■:— ,
( The house is large and convenient ; enquire of
John Litle, No. 40, North sixth street.
Jfloher. -jl. w&fa. tf
Last Notice to the Creditors and
Debtors of John Shields.
'"T'HE 6rll are «equefted to render their Ac-
JL counts againll him, made up to the 23d
day of August, 1797, llie date of his Aflign
ment, that a Dividend may be promptly made.
The last to pay off their Accounts, Notes, and
:h. Bonds, bef ire the fii It day of Dccembv ensuing.
Any that remain nnfettled after that period, will
b.* put into the hands of an Attorney at Law,
for recovery.
DAVID M. SHIELDS,
Attorney, (in facSl,) to the
Ly Afiignees and Trustees of
J. Shields.
0 , Chefnut-ftreM, No, 22.
if. November I, 1798. dtf.
he A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
nd TOHN A. SHAEFFER, Philadelphia, who has
ir J for a few years pad been in the fowhern States,
ie- ha* had the effrontery to draw fcvcral Bills of Ex
of change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
of State, and myielf,and by that means has defrauded
of a number of persons of their money, deceiving
r»- thera by an e*hilntion*of Utter* and papers with the
of names affixed of divers public chara>slei'i and repu
ny merchants highly recommendatory of laid
Shacffer; to oi>g of tbefc papers I find my name
:he fuhferihed, but Ido not know the man ; these arc
gc- villainous forgsries! To prevent further imposition,
ps, I have to request the \ rit.tf rs "of Newspapers in the |
or. United Slates to puMiih this lor the hen Wit of their 1
I.'fl fellow-citizen*. SAMUEL MEREDITH, j
nn' *f iL: Unit*! State? »
Trenton, Ncio •
Oftobcr 24* 1j
Just Arrived,
, In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now laniiog at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimftoae.
An assortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING OF
, Opiym, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna,
5 Cremor Tartir, «Scc.
) E(Fences of Lemon rnd Bergan\(A
Wrrtimct paper
Sweet oil in bottles and fiafks
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian lutestrings
Satins
Graces
. Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wine of the firft qr.ulity.
JAMES YARD. «
November j r > ! V
jAMEb & RIC.HAK.U o.vllitl, j u
y TT AVE this day returned from the country to j
JLi. their SIOAE, No. 54- Front street,
where they heve for fa'e, a> uiual, a larv;c and ge- r
: neral aflorcment ofßuropean and Eaft-Ir.dia
I)RT GOODS, c
mod crt which have now arrived and are laodiug, o
from the different vessel-, from Hamburgh, Lon- o
don, Liverpool and Hull. 11
Their Culloraers by applying will find almost p
every article generally imported, and at as law a
prices for cafti or credit,as they can be had else- c
where.
N. B A few Cases of Nurenbergh a
consignment, to be fold by the cafe only,
a Philadelphia, Nov, i, f 798. cr^
The Subscribers
HAVE JUST RfcCMVPD AH INVOICE OF i
Choice Chelhire £s?Double Gloucester
CHEESE. ]
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.]
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
Of various sizes, per the Jan e, from London.
They have also for Salt,
200 Casks of Refined Salt-Petre,
and a quantity of
Fine Castor Oil.
James C. isf Samuel IV. Fijher.
November 1 dtf
JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now landing at South flreet tuharf,
FOR SALE BT
PETER SLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOX SALE,
BRANDY, id and 4th P rost
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &c.
Nov. I. dtf
!ROBERT SMITH & Co.
Have returned to the City, and are now open
ing at their Store, No s§» &>• Front flreet,
A large and General
ASSORTMENT OF GOODS,
Suitable to the Season,
Which they have jufl received p*r the late
arrivals from London, Hull, Liverpool and
ls Glasgow (via New-York) and will dispose
of on very low terms for Cash or short credit.
TO BE LEI,
A House in Fourth-street, next door to 1
to the Indian 'Queyn —enquire as above,
novemher 6
b- FOR SALE,
A FARM on the road leading to Slate ldand,
within four anc! -mi halfmilctof Philadelphia,
•g containing 45 acres in the highest state of cultivation
,f- 25 acips of which is moadow, the remainder wp
land. 1 here aieon the premvCes, a pew frame Houte
and Barn, with ao excllent kilchen garden, contain
ing a great number of'fr-iit trees. —Immediate posses
sion will be given.
0 For teims apply to
Thomas IV. Francis,
he <
;r nov. 3 s
et FOR SALE,
" r at this office,
1 A FEW Copies of an intcrefling Work, ill
jj /I French, entitled a Hi'fory of
to The Adnirniftration of the French
Finances,
DURING THE TEAR 1796-
' Also, An Historical and Political View of the
Administration of the French Republic, during
e- the v«ar 1797, —of the causes which produc
— e d the
of Revolution of the 4th September—
And of the results of that Revolution.
id PRICE I COLLAR EACH.
These two political trails, are from the pen
lC of the celebrated d'lvernois.and contain athou
' j sand irterefting difclnfurei of tJie folly, venility
, n _ and profligacy of the different Usurper;. who
j c * have reignsd in France during the laiter stages
nr j of the horrible Revolution mow pending in that
miserable and depraved country.
,il'| Nov. 3. §
GEORGE DAVIS,
this opportunity of informing
he his friends generally, that so fooiras the pre
of fcnt ficknefswill admit it, he proposes to offer for
sale, the mof extenfivs colleSion cJ
LAW BOOKS,
_ he ever imported, or that was ever imported into
the Ueited States.—The laic arrivals have brought
I»im a cumber of extremely valuable and iiaree
BOOKS, and tkofe expected, will greatjy add to
(las the quantity.
:es, Oilober IS. eotllw
sx-
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
"pvIISERTED last night, a second time, from
"'S I / the Marine Camp, David Lufer a;fifer.—
He had he went away, a plain I lae jacket and
IU , vest.light b'u roverallstaround haV,which l*adhecn
a bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off
11,0 in his firft defcrtion, aad a p «ir of new thoe*. he is
arc a Carpenter by has grey eyes, fai.dy hair
fallow complexion tr»d a nitch in his upper lip
j His back is ftlll lore from a floggil he got a few
ieir days ago He may ba difcovcred by his fileing,
' las he plays citremely well.
"V W. W. DUUHOW3 Major Com. of the
OiSoter 17. ,Mai ine Ccrps.
IMP OUT E D,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
CHARLES WHARTON,
[At his Hemic, No. i.161 South Second Street.J
Old Lisbon Wine;
Of the fir ft quali y, in pipes and quarter calks
Tea China, afibrted in boxes.
Hyson
Hyson fl:in, and > TEAS.
Young Hyl'on j
India Bandanna and Chopah R< mal Si'k Hand
kerchiefs.
Nankeens
Black Sattin
Black and coloured Luteflrings
Black so wing Silk
Garden Fanns, —Silk Umbrellas, &c. &c.
November 5
To be fold or Rented,
THE fabferiber's house, So. 78, \V»lput
flreet, with a ctllat and two ftables—Pofleflion or
the house will be given early in November—the
fliiblcs and cellar immediately.
GEORCE MEAD.
October 24, §tf
~ ~~ N O T I C E,
r T" I HAT the firft Monday of December next ;s
X appointed for my hearing befors a Court of
Common Picas of Alleghfsy County, in the Stata
of Pennfyivania, on an application lor the benefit
ot the a<sWof thisftateproviding for the relief of
infolvest debtors, havinjjat September term last
preftfttcd ii y petition, with a schedule annexed, of
all my eftarc real, personal and mixt, rights and
credits, to bealfigned lor the use of my creditors.
ALEXANDER SUMR A LL.
Nov. 1.
To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
ON the South fide of Filbert Street, betwe«i»
Eighth and Ninth street, formerly otcupitd
as the Surveyor General's Ottiee-—Enquire at Nov
ill, Chefnut Street.
aujuft 10 eeft
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails aflorted
1 10 bales ef fail canvass, from No. iito S
5 3 calks yellow ochre
15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each
London particular ) Mtl | e ; ra wines
India market }
Teneriffe do. in hogfheadsand pip
Old Port do. in hhds.
, Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinetsj&c.
aflorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, apd9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink (lands and presses
10 purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine
160 bundles sheathing paper
Nick/in & Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
This Day is Published,
ANO FOR SALE BY J.FF.M NO, 1 Iq.CHES N U T-S1 *
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
l ON the origin, progress and pretest (late of
French aggreflion, with a sketch of the infamous
' attempts te degrade the Government of the United
• States, and some reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the last of April in the pre.
) sent year, by a Member of the House of Reprcl'en
tativos. § june 11
HAPPT DISCOVERY.
A certain Cure for that alarming and dreadful Diferder
| The Yellow Fever,
1 As tvell as any other dangerous putrid fever, fever and
ague, and other inveterate and complicated difeafis, by
e d)e use of the
POUDRE UNIQUE,
WELL known and patented in England, France,
Poland, and all the capital cities in Europe,
where the most aftonilhing cure? have been effoA
cd on.persons judged iwcufable by all physician*.
In a Treatise printed in London, on the properties
of this powder, by T. Seymour, M. D iare Che
mifl to his Majefly, there arc* stated t\\'Q hundred
cases, where this most valuable remedy has proved
infallible, in all tind of fevers, pleurisy, bljcdy Jlux t
n inverse rheumatics, fdatica, apoplexy, pat al\fie, yel
low jaundice, ringworm, worms if children and in gronn
q p er f 9ns » whites, chronical bead and fomach aches, hepa -
tick and ncphretical or Jlone clulic, the lings evil, furvy
and the mo(i inveterate and complicated venereal disease. It
is likewise the best preparative for the small pox
andmeafleg; ol the greafeft utility for young aa
,e well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their
g life. Ihe efficacy of this powder in iiveral of the
c- 'above diseases has been dilcovered by chance, and
so it has been in the yellow fever last year, by Mr*
Mahy, who cured fsveral by ad mini fieri ri£ only
two of the said powders, and loft not a Tingle pa
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved
artefted by the here annexed certificates, whose ori
ginal may be seen at Andrew Hadfegs umbrella Jbop %
»n AY 131, corner of Chefnut and fuurtbfl recti, the on
u. ly place where these powders are to ba had, with
IV proper diredions for the use of them.—Price tut
M'ari.
es The ufefulnefs and certainty of this remedy be- I
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, any
person wishing toJ>e provided with those powdei s,
will pleafc to apply vctj soon, as the quantity at
hand is rot very large, and it is doubtful if for 4
lsng time, or if ever any other genuine will be im
ported, the f-cret remaining only ifl the hand, of
the inventor, in Europe, and never being commu-
nicated to, or discovered by any othar perfom
or N. Bln the yellow and putrid fevers, this pow
der null betaken th« iecond, or at It.allthe tliiid
day.
Wethcfuhfcribers, during the late ficknefii in
this tity, having taken th« y llow fever, applied to
Ht Mr. Mahy for his medical ahiftance, we do here
ce by ccrti'y, that by a certain powder, cal'ed the
to Pouirt Unique, we were perfcflly recovered from
the said fatil sickness, and from an experi nee of
the happy «ffe<9s of the above mod valuable medi
— cine, consider it our duty to make the fame knonrn,
for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
m Margaret Jones,
_ Mylus O'Connor,
l( j JelTeTu-ner,
n Christen Rebecca Dow,
,(f Catherm Apple,
' Ann Grovcr,
,i r William Bills,
j, David Williams, carpept'r,
w William T Donalr!fon, maft-msker.
Mr. M«hy's welljcnown Plairtcr, for all kind of
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc
he tiou, N». 131, Chefnut ftraet.
august 8 sawtf
#
,AUniversity of Permfylvania.
Nov 8, 1798.
THE different S; boo!s will be opened on
Thurfdaythe ijtfc inlanf. Ry order,
Wh. ROGERS, Sec'y.
# «* ihe Offices of Government
are to be removed from Trenton to
the City ori Thursday next.
* lt * The Custom House is re
movedfrom Chester to the City, and
is ag4in opened at the usual place.
No van! er 3 §
*** 1 heXHonfignees of Goods
on board the (hip Commerce, capt Wood, from
Liverpool are requeued to fetid their permit! en
board, as lie will .ommcnct difchargirg on I'burf
day jiext at Latimer's wh,arf.
Nov. 7, 1-98. . It
*#* The Office of the Insurance
Company of NORTH-AMERICA,
is again opened at the South-well
corner of Walnut and Front-streets.
nov % dlw
INSURANCE OFFICE
of the State of Peanfylvania is removed
to the south-east corner of Second and
V* alnut streets.
Nov. 5, djiv
The fnfurarice Office of
SHOEMAKER BERRETT,
ia ariai opened at no. 29 north Water flreet—At
tendance will alio be given at their rosm at the r
Coffce-houfe asufua!, l'rom 12 'til! 2 o'clock
XI mo; 5, 1798 d6t
" REMOVAL. I
THE SUBSCRIBERS haveremoved their Office p
from the corner of Eleventh Street, to their former p
Counting House, No. 11, Penn Street. £
If Mings &? Francis. J
November t 5
" R7 TAYLOR, I
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
MO. 96. NORTH SIXTH-STREET, .®
Respectfully informs the Pirbiic that
he continues to teach Ladies the Piano c
Forte as 'lfual. '
Nov. 6. tuth»*'
~ TO BELET " I
And immediate pojj'ejfion given, 4-
A LARGE convenient, wsil finifhed house,
No. 41 r, High flreet, lately occupied Vy
Rsjtor Wiflar, with coach house and liable',' ®'
Enquire of WILLIAM SHF.AFF. A
No. 168, Highltreet.
Nov. t. dtf
To Be Let, _
And immediate poffeJfioH Given,
A COMMODIOUS Three Story 3rick House
-L V with convenient back buildings, fitaated
at the north weft corner of Third and Walnut H
flrccts.—For terms >r>ply to
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
No, 20, Scuth Fourth Street.
Oiflober 19 ' >' 1 dtf
, 7 TO Bh KEN I'ED,
( And immediate pojfrjjlon given, J
A LARGE thr? c fto.-y rfiUOK HOUSE,
fisuate in VValnut-ltreer—The rooms are P!:
commodious, airy and private—i'r. m which,and
its central posit on, i: is thought to be an eligi- Fit
Mr filtration for a Public Office.' F< r terms, en
quire < 1 _ BKNJ. IV. AIOKMS. Do
Also. A commodious Ware Houl*, in Tay- ® u !
lor's Alley, I
o<Slober»9- 3tawiw p) '
NOTICE. fo\
SAMUEL RICHARDKT, infor.ms the G-r.tle- Gr '
men Subscribers, that the EXCHANGE '
is opened for their reccp.ion; and the CITY k)°
TAVERN, for Gentlemen and Travellers— Cl
Lall Siring added an addition of twelve Bed
Chambers to the fide building, which makes it
perfefllj convenient. 1
november 6 tnw ® U I
Virginia Tobacco, t
% Twenty four hogsheads, old, and of an excellent I' ol
quality, . P'a
FOR SALE BY n
James Murland,
No. 97, south Front flreet. m oi
N B.—a fetv boxes of LINEN CHi£CK3, and r
an a'.lortment of BSOTS and SHOES, which will g on
be fold cheap apply r » above.
Nov. 7 aodtf Wi
JOHN SHIELDS, ~ si
BROKER,
Embraces this opUirtunity tc prcfent his thanks
to his feUoiu citizens for their pdji favors T
and acquaints them that he ii return:dfrom r J 0
Chefnut HSril. to bis former reftdenct, the c
yioufe Ao. u Chefmit between Front ® toc
and Second-street, f J' on
■*"T7"HF.RE he holds hiinfelf ready to execute p°? r
VV their commands in e»trv branch of his
prolefliim, trtftn g that from a refx'eace in this *
city of 35 years he has it in his power to render
litem tflVntial service, alluring them that his
commifßon (ball be as low as any in I own.
Lotts, LaFds, Houfcs, VefTels, Certificates
of every defeription and Billi~of Exchange,
liougbt and fold, thcdocketls carefully exam
ined and clear titles made upon tht ffiortefl no-
ti»c, by the public's humble servant, f .
Job". Shields. ,;
Good negotiable Notes difeaunted j a th
»t a low premium. * T>hic
november 7 3awtF ct, C
< : :
John Dobbin, n ° 3 :
BOOT SHOEMAKER.
RESPEC'I'FULLY inforais his Friends and
the Public in general that he carriesdh his
bnfincfb at ITo 99 South iecond-jirctt, dearly op- «
pofite the Merchants Coffee house whure gen- /\
tiemen may be supplied in the neatest and beff*
manner —he affnres :hofe who may plealetofa
vor him with their commands that no attention mtr "'
or exertion on his fide (hall be wanting to render c
liim w;onhy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders received will be pun&ually at
tended to. . Wm
november 5 S a rt
DAVID NL SHIELDS, ~ °,m
At tke Store No. 22 Chefnut-ftretl. ' rccei
Jjcj leave to infot m his friends ilf cujfomers that c^em
be bat remivrd bn goods from Chefnut.Hill,
(3". kc-.o ready to iiccomm&iatethem <with,
CIOAKSE and fme white, red green Baizes
jin half pieces—Ccaife and fine white Flan „
ni lis from if id, to (f. a yard He expels a '
further supply by the firlt arrivals from Scotland, Wi
I;'and ar.d England, a> d is determined ;o fcli
1.,w for Calh cr a fcort credit.
b»v 7 oawtf i
•
u -
Drawing <s Painting Academy,
NO. 63, WALNUT STREET
!f on J. CO X.
RESPEC b'ULLY informs f)i» natrons and
tti. public, tha bis Aca 'emy w:lt berpen
leilt Houday next, the jjth irJ*atit. Hours
ot tuition for Young Ladies, from Two till
[1 to four ; an:) an rvenir.tr Sciioel for Gentlemen
from Six tiH Ei^hr.
J. Cox »as tnaife New Additions to bis col
ieefion of Pi<ftiire!q»e D awings, during his ab
and fence from the City, ai.d.ha- likewise procured
some handfonie Relief liibjccts, torrhe in
' ltruilion of his Pupils, in the doiSlrine of light
_5 anti shadow.
1 Terms of Tuition, Six Dollars and 1 half
Olio per Qnartej;,
from Ladlei aii<l Gentlemen inftrufled in the dß>
«" fereut branches if Drawing »nJ Paintiug, at
burs- their own apartrrtciyis.
nov S - ■ ' . f jnfti'njt
—*- Samuel Pbtter, William Page and
ce J ho mas Price,
-<A, No. 31 CHVSN. 1 SIRBET",
veil re no ' lu opening a very extevjive ajfortmcnt of
ets. D R r G 0 u D S, j
™ Suitable to the present teafon. i
Which they have just rece vtd per j
iveti' Ships Fa>Sor, Boyne, Qrlegb & liidcpend«nce,
and ( via ew Yorkj from L ONDON,
Alio, per (hips William Peon & Amiable from '
London, and (hips Saliy andili'honias liocj
v Liverpool,
IVhich '.hey <will fell on very lew terms for"
j, cash or approved notes, viz.
' Common and fuperfine 7-8 fancy and chinz cal
* cloths licoes
1 e Plain & fancy coatings 78 ct mmon and chintz
Plain and f.ripcd cis ii - furnitures 7
>C meres A very large quantity of £
Swanfdowns ciint-rt
Rofi and duffill blankets i'urple and chintz feawls
ce Red and yellow flannels I .in 011 and lawn pocket
mer Fine Welch flannels *1 andkerchiefs/ a
Carpen and carpeting .Camels' hair (bawls
Jcaunetts & tabby curdsk v ry large assortment of
$ Velvet«ens&velveretts j ribbonds
* f hickfetts jßritilhplain checked,flri-
Calhmancoes, durants &| psJaiid tambour'd muf-
I linsof all descriptions
Silk, cotton, and.worfled, olorrd bordered shawls,
hat ' l °^ e j a great variety
%r.o Cotton, callicoe, & t*vi& {-4 a«d 6-4 conjeverami I
checks and bctt*ll(,*es
I, HtmifTes India book&jaconet muf j_
ljamafh table linen Laces and cJgings I [
4-4 and 6-4 3ieetingt 31ack and patent lace | a i
ife, ' r '' neis Lace v its ,md figured I Tl .
yj cloaks I t h
Bandannoes Pulongs and fattins I ar
A very large quantity of Persians and farfainfs Ipj
;et _ Silk modes * I
And a variety of other articles.
Nov. 3 tH.thfa.im
Smith & Rodman, L
No. 49, South Front street, '
iut Have jufi received per tlx William Penn, and
Jane,from London, DianaanrfThomas d el
from LtrEtPooi, and Kingston, gei
- from Hull, oIF
A LARGE & GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
g AMONG WHICH ARE I
re Plain, twill'd and ftripod Crapes * jll
Coatings PLin&ftriped Wildbores I lad
>1- Fine white and red Welfl? Worsted, Yarn 3 Cotton I Fri
ri - Flannefe Kofc j blc
Do. yellow and scarlet do. Men and Boys Woollen I
y Superfine and low priced Mittens J J e j
.5-4, 4-4-, 7-4, cloth* 0 f 7*Bblcach'd Irilh Dow- inc
all colors a ! lac
_ ; Plains and Halfthicks 3*4 brnwr, Infh Linen En
Forest and Hunter Cloths 9"? a " d b '° WD Ir " we
c . Green and Red Drapery r]^cn oznl . jae
E t 1 , buigh in bale,
r O°; S Z 4 ' 4 ' an 7 ' 4, Drogbeda (3 Irilh Silefias
_ Red & green Baking do. ? .g 2nd yard-wide" Irilh Bu :
;( j Swanfdowns Isf Poilanetts Linens I inc
it Rose, Point and Duffill Primed Callicoet&Chin- h'X
Blankets tzes I wb
Superfine London Cafli-| Printed Linen and bor- I lart
meres of the neweftandl der'd Ha d kerchiefs [fed
mod falhionable colors Cotton&Callicoe Checks I i
it Low priced Yorkshire dr Tiirrnri Edgings i 3 I o'cl
Plain and striped Calli- Mtn ' s B"ver Gloves K ro
mancoes Pins in small cases I
Joan Spinnings &Durants HciUanri Tape,« Bobbin j 4(c
Rattmetts & Shalloons h,ckf - ls Corduroys awj
d c™w.„, h
il B tr I T,, I Black and oUve C ° ft «n-
Bombazetts and Black a( j cs [ ing
With a variety of other Articles on hand, for neg:
falcjDn the most reafunable terms for cash j "
or the usual credit. I ,
N * v 6 tu.th&fa.tf
j Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made to the Treafu- I . _
ry of the United States, for the renewil of the I
following Certificates of Six Per Cent Funded
Stock, standing in the name of Jcbn CartoneU, of I -
I.sndon, the said Certificates having ! een loft on I /\
, board the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from I ,
j Falmouth to New-York. | an^
; 3°7 2 I Cert, for aoOo Mr.] ,
2964 I do. JOOO [■ cati ,
' I do 3000 J j j
Wil/ings fcf Francis. I TT ••
' auguft 30. eo6w I t j )£
j Notice is hereby given, I U g
application will be madur to tfie treasury I in B
of the United ■'•tites for the renewal of the follow- I Rhei
■*g certificates of fix per cents funded debts, (land- f es
ia the name of Jjne GaVrielle Rigaud, of Gcn:va, | f rorr
vihich were !o[f from on board the Swallow Pjcx- j
ct, Capt, Kidd.lrom Falmouth toNew-Yoik. I
v, „ DolU. A
N0.3105. Reg. office 19thMay '95, icerr. for 100 a
13,181. do. 14th do. do. 1 do. for 3500 j licati
Willing if? Francis. I a ll «l
I oaobtr »4- eod6w. crest
Eight Dollars Reward. nui >
ROBBERY was committed on f,. rv ,
the 17th instant, ar the house of the sub- don
fenber in the townfoip of Solebury by two negro | u u',
men,—they carried off a quantity of calh ; a puck- pr i
et book, conuirfing fo lle valuable papers; wear- I 1
ing apparel, See.—One »f tfae negroes is a mid tle I 1
aged man, known by the same of John White, for- ,
merly a resident ol Philadelphia, has an impedi- 3
'ment in his (Jieech—the other supposed to be I
a runaway, about eighteen years ef age, of I Sout
of middle stature. Whuever feeurcs the aforefeid I
villains so that they may be broughn ro justice, flull | q(
receive eight dollars leward, or four for either of -
them taken separately.
Isaiah tugkemoney.
Solebury, 10 Mo. 19th, 179 J. 31.1 aw
AN APPRENTICE ~~ Brill,
TO THE PRINTING BUSINESS "ill!
"Will be taken at this Office, if »«
immediate application be made.
ISov.-i. . 6 t Xc
V
ny, IrioajAs Z? Joshua Fisher,
No. 5 , V qcz-Streej,
have for sale, • '
and 'MPORreo in difkfrunt Vessels,
pen- ■" general ojfortmeut of
ours Coarle and fine Woolens,
fl 78 Ik 4-4 Jrifh Linens, ShJe'ings, Tickens Sc.
" Scarlet and Ctoth colored Cardinals
1 *ats ,n hr.xes of iz dozen each
co " China, Nankeen Dining ferts and cups & saucers
sa Black Luteflriiigs, Taiiatys and Sattins
Pungem Cloths and Himjhums, Bint and Red
P Cotton, Chappalsand PiJlicat Komalls
'? Lhisa and Enghfh Umbrellas
~,1 f; CrovVley iWillisgton Steel
tlait Tin in BiJxrs r»3 x
Shot, P.^is and Weeding How
:dl '- ■6d, Si, led, Ijd Nails,' &c. &c
r > 44 nth moarrh 8 diw
I ~ TducaTion;
inc *.| Samuel Moon, jnn'rs School,
. TV church Arj.r.r,
open again, for inflruvS'ing Girl. irr'Readinp,
it of I J. W/iting, Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography,
including the Elements of G-otnetry, and the uie
of the Globes.— From the great encouragement he
has hitherto received, he refpeclfuily so licit s a con
fipy. rinuance of the favours of his Friends tii«
Public.
oC/" An Evening School,
rom For B0 T S—Kept at tlie £ame place, j
3 , nirij 6th,'9B 2\w4vv
r Female Education.
James A. Neal's School,
I FOR THF TUITION OF
TOUNG LADIES,
intz Will re-commence on Monday, the 12th of
November, at his School R/jom, No. 28, 1
f°f Carter's illey, 1
wl) C 3* The Evening School 1
ket Will be opened, as usual, at the fame time \
end'place.
j. November 3 eodst '
r . Printing Work, 1
us - Of Every Kind, !
1 -EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE, 5
lp( I At the Office of the Gazette of tlx '
UnitfdStates, t
u s oa. 11- Atf. t
I A **L PEK-SOMS having any legal demands a-
Cx ja nlt 'he 'estate of William Perkhi, dece-ifod, t
lan of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are ii
e I requ:fled to iurnifti their accounts properly au-
I the:itic.»k!d, and all persons mdebte3 to said estate
I are requeHed to make payment to the fublcribsr in 1
I Philadelphia. n
LEVI HOLI.INGSWORTH Adrninr. c
Oflobcr ltd, 1798. p
Cook Wanted. J
I\ \ 7"AN TED, by a fmatl regular family, a wo- b
I VV, man cook, who is a thorough mistress of a .
1d I Cr u^nc^s can P r °duce fatisfa&ory recom-
I mendation. Any perfwn anfvvering the above
1 description, will meet with conflant employ and
generous wages. Application to be made at the ft
I Office of this gazette. Cl
I To save trouble, no Irifli Woman need apply. J r
nov - 6 1 .It si
Sixty Dollars Reward. ir
TV/f AOE escape from the Gaol in tha bo- •VJ
j •!■*-*■ rough of Lancaster, on Saturday evening ai
es I lad, between «.he hours »C 8 and <) o'clock, twu jj
an I French prisoners, part of the crew of I.a Croya
-1 ble. at
cn I T>he one mrae:! Etiennc AjJtin, a native of Bor* w
J deaux in France, 26 years of age, a' out 5 feet 6 W
v " j inches high, dilrkejcs and complexion, by trade
I a carpenter, supposed to be unacquainted with the re
I English or German language. Had onjwhen he w
I went away, a white hat, pantaloons, and fcort
_ I jacket, tight made, and probably took with him P c
I some other clothes: til
as I f other named Peter Dupricnc, a native of of
(h j Bujoin in France, 10 years of age, about 5 feet 8 Q (
I inches high,grey eyes, dark complexion, a seaman
1. Iby occupation, a dirty ill-looking fellow. Had on
I whan he went away, a blue Tailor 1 * jacket, with
r- I large tow trowlers, an old wool bat,fpeaks iinper- as
I fe«S German. | C I
;s I AU'o, made his escape the fame day, about nine
I o'clock in the morning, from the fame gaol, a lie- ,
I gro man named Prtcr Hu/lon, about 5 feet 4 inches a
I high, of a frilling countenance, la'ely conviAed of ( 1
I a lulony in this county. Had on when he went ['
Is 1 i niv ' a ' r ' a Io!1 g coat, a pair of white trowfers, a |.
0 I both ragged, and a black hat.
i_ J Twenty-five dollars will be paid for apprehend
j ing and securing in any goal, each or e.ther of the * 1
I above named Frenchmen, and Ten dollars for the °A
C I negro, by w;
j Chriflia*l Carpenter, jttn. fberijf.
I Lancaster, Od. to, 1798. Ijeo3t of
Dr.
Anti-peffilential Preservative and wl
1 anti-bilious Pills, a c
[I A RE eirnelllv recommended at ihis Sfal'on, 001
J j against the Fevers that prevail. Prepared
I and fold only by the Subfcrjber, who feels it ne- Pe
j ceflary tc embrace this opportunity of acquaint- ex*
ing the Public, that he received a reguliredu- e d
cation in the different Branches of 0) |
Physick, Surgery, £s? Midwifery, Br
I Under his Father, and other em-rent nien'iu po ,
J the cities of London and Brittol, and (in the
I course of twenty-eight years) has seen the ma- f
Iny good effeifls of this incomparable medicine, !° n
jin Hilious, Jaundice, or Hepatic cases, Dropsy in '
I Rheumatism, Lues-Venerea, Scurvy,Wormca-
I fes, Malignant anil other Diseases, proceeding ftai
j from acrimonv and obllrudlion. th"
- TJIE PILLS
Are prepared according tD true medical prin- Ch
ciples, and may be fafelv taken by ihe mod .'e- Gu
J licate In boxes <f a quarter dollar, and half 0 f
a dellar, with directions, aa>d. feared with hie r
1 crest, cypher, and motto. None elfc are Ge- ? n
I nuine. t,ul
N. B, The anti-pefiilential pre- h f
fervative, was ul'ed w'th great success at Lon- J ei
don, .V arfeilles, Unftol, and other Cities, aH j
when they, were refpeaively viJked with the
. PLAGUE. m^!
In bottles of' a quarter dollar and half a do!- pi 1 ]
lar, with OirtifiioßS, and the Corks sealed as 3 '
above. P or
CiHARLETON YEATMA_f* p U "
I South East cor iter of Lombard and Second streets, ■ Erii
I New Market. i line
° a ° b « * law. tu | Th.
" J
Horl'es to Winter. : per
HORSF.S will be tiken ih to winter at P» o- ' w '"
spect Hill, at the u Milestone, on the cau
Enftolroad ; they will be well fed with clover ban
and timothy hay, well littered and cleaned, and Be >'
will alio have a brgs Held to exercise themfclves nts«
in when the weather is good.—Enquire of Mr bar:
W.Uam BM, merchant, U'ajct fircct, or or. th- ban
prenv:«s. ht u
ov -? vCtf ] per
IHIS It REEEL S. j
, S( TRIAL OF BfRNE, j
At Dublin, on the loth of "July.
, The isdi&meiii was read, wfn'ch consist. 1
Str. Ed ot t»,. counts, one for comparing the
death of the king, 3rd the other for adher
ers in S to , hßene ' n; «. To fuppon which there j
were eleven overt afts.
Red , Mr \ Wtther opened the pleading, and '
the prirn; ferjeant (Mr. Fitzgerald) dated |
cafe he oblcrved, that if cullom did not '
unction some obf.rvations being' made on '
Inch an occasion he woald deem it r,eee{-
faty only to bring forward his \v;tnefTi-s,
without further preface ; for such was the
?i^ ( 'i le C '' ar S < iu ' Ml"'brine 4
f.ainfl tlie pnlbncr, that he jthon.-ht a mere
recital of the r t ft, mo ny fu(fi cl V,, £ ;c convia
01, the pnfcner of the crime of high treason.
| It wou.lo app-arboth from parole evidence
and matter of fafl,'that a meeting took
ule P l d ". on th ,! 121,1 of March la ft at the hotifc
he 01 o:iver Bond ; that the pril'oner appear-
TTIiT 35 dcle S atC fram th« county of
,c . v '' thiit on . 'be appreheiyion of fr
vera! persons m that house, the prifoiier, ,
with others, was found fcated in a rno:» up i
ce. uairj, round a table. It would appear, that J
j'. 1 e PS ,lon of the pril'oner were found •
divers papers, one in particular, purport- '
lug to be a return of men, arms and ammu
Mtion, in the hand-writing of the prisoner; a
this paper, though written with obfeurity,
might eahly be usdtrftood. Another pa 1
of per found on the person of a Mr. Lynch, v
8, taktn at the fame time, and proved to be v
tiie hand-writing of the prisoner, would alp
so be produced ; it purported'to be an ad- t
<ne dress irom the delegates of the coun'y of f
W tcklow to their conftiiuents, and was, he
conceived, in itfelf, full proof of the guilt r
of the prisoner ; it stated that the most'
flattering accounts were Alertly expefted d
from abroad (this, the prime ferjeaht.ob- -j
served, must menn France) which would in
a few days be officially notified to them r [■
it stated, that by the lalt provincial returns, d
the increase of United lirilhmcn appeared t ,
_ to be only a few thousands ; but accounted c
a . for this—it begged of them so pay no at
d, tention to the flying rumorj of the day ; a,s f
re it stated, the emiflarifcs of government were (
t e bofy ill circulating falfhoods, and Jfpwing t
in the feeds of disunion among United Irilli- „
men. It stated that theba ony of New
castle had complaised of not being yet sup- a
plied with arms ; that great numbers ef 0
pikes were ready for delivery ; and it re- «
( commended to the people to be indefatiga
)- ble in forming more ; it complaioed of the n
apathy of part the cdunly of Wicklow. s
' c which had refufed tocont'ibate id per head 3
j for the relief of the fnffering patriots in the tc
,« several goals, but who disdained the horrid ; s
crime of bartering for their liberty by turn- t f
ing informers ; it stated that there was no t }
- ftwd for relieving 4.2 persons now confined ol
in Wicklow, and that 181. had been ad- di
. . vanced by one individual ; it recommended b<
' an immediate voluntary contribution to af
>_ fid those men ; it particularly called their r ;
attention 10 a meeting fhortl> to take piace, p,
. wherein business of the firft confequercc C c
5 was to be agitated.
It then proceeded to enumerate several 0 r
= returns from the different baronies through i s
t Wicklow, of men, aiopey, pikes, mufitets, pr
, powder, ball, See. by which it appeared 'sf
that 12,800 mea vvtre ready, and the sum •
; 1621. 35.*4, d. 111 Arktiw alone, 5001b.
J of powder, ihd 8050 ball cartridges were
, ready. On a candid conlideration of those
, circumstances, every mind mnft be made up
- as to the prisoner's guilt. There was another
letter, which went further, if possible, to dl
J prove Vuch, in the hand writing of M'Cann, v<r
j addrefled to Michael William Byrne, Esq.'
(the prisoner at the bar) being a brother, H
: [This letter was produced on M'Cann's trt' i
al J He would prove also the was I he
at a meeting of the national delegates in
Fianeis-ftreet, Dublin, br avowed his
official fituatiot), and where the question of ' le
waiting for the arrival of the French was lir '
agitated. He w,: uld prove the hand writing
of the prisoner in a: certificate of qtialifica
tion for ferjeants, and his inftruaion to
others in the application of it. On the h '
whole, be observed, that stronger faih, or tfu
a clearer cafe, never was brought before a taL
court or jury. tha
William Rellingham Swan-, 3 Justice of ,0 "
Peace for the county of Dublin, lworn and n "
eximined by the Attorney General. Depof- ma
ed that he nrrefted the prisoner and several difl
others at the house of Mr. Oliver Bond, in the
Bridg -street. He could not fwtar that the ", ]
pocket book in which the papers were, was *''
adually taken from the person of the pri- bec
foner, but swore pefitivjy the prisoner was otl !
in the room.
irdcrc Mr» b. recounted the other circtim
ftances attending the arrest, as detailed on thr '
the trial of M'Cann. - he
Here the counsel for the crown proceed tlle
Chnftopher Stone Williams, Arthur af ? c
Guinefs, Efqrs. to prove s®e hand wriiing U P C
of M'Cann, found in prffeffion of the prf- an y
foner, and thereby eftablifted the contiec- t0 1
tion between M'k. ami and the prisoner. his
Several papers founc} in the room were read P» !
y ! " e deputy clerk of the erown, all of which
ere of an and .treasonable nature, laid
and corroborative of the parole evidence. A- »b
mong theft; papers were a pa, eel of toifti, from
which the following were read : » The Green
Ha-of Ireland, may :lier foils unite and sup- W
port it. —» The me-nory of Orr, who died "' o '
a inar.yr to irjfl* Freedom."-" Ireland a re- I
I puhlc, and all the worid ffee."—" Mother 10°,
; tnn drcfled in green ribbons by a I'rcqcL mil- fop
; liner, jf Ihe tanncu lie die fit d without her 'j
j There was also a printed piper .1 ddniTed to the rl fe
. pKple. tending lo.the d» r ef bank pa- Li,
| per, which v\ as to the
1 who are appointed 10 i'ufvrmt.end your interelk
caution you again.tthe immetite quantity «1" wor
ban* notes 1 m:ng bf gpvernmrns. ra pw
ne> is va uablc only in pPopouion to the good- 1- ,
ne.« o. ihefc-cnrity gitai'aii'-ci.ir it. Shield a Afc
ourll take place, th* bccpiWa a |L.,
bank.upt, ami thi. poff.l&rs M" its-paper, God f../
a P
perre, wh::h 3 r: taken for tnc convy, e,-- --
V*
I A j l' ra P a,! ">« to tb« wart".. •>...
«oM K r " " nxer Wl " & ive the full vsV-'S
ok brass or copper for them ; but (V eov-rn
J ™ cr '' on « <Wn, «l« fine paper, on wiifkT
drtdsai'd th.Mrtands are so plentifully markri"
would not be purefiaOr! ,cr the uk If a *J?
«• fesrars r«?»;?
1 ■ w paper m ..turn ror Your good; and VeceE'
the guineas "
, rhoniM Miller, t'worn ?nd exam h«t t,
° I Mayte, (Counrel for the CroS) I
as an United Imh.iiati, and attended Itve'ral
r W,t . Pf'toner at the bar (whose
; 3> STi* h } t r r ' kuhrly in " ,c cu "»-
tne r > " w.,klow. He then proceeded to lUte tl <■
-
,qe United l,ift raj « ; wSwofn in a' lock-iy huhe
, O J. month ot April, , 797 ! attended feveraj focie
life t : t3; »'»/tt'Ou.teda secretary to one - toll
ar " bar a ?f \7 e " ; flw ' ,h * l ,rifon cr 'at the
of r,u a , "T"' whw avowed hi*
ielfr a delegate for the county of Wicfclow • nr
e r ; l ;' re,l . a hand-writing of the p'riC
er, er» which he said he got from the htt witness •
" F ieantt \nd" te - il the 3 PPo : ntment of Ser'-
, at J"" 16 - and was wr.tten by trie pnforer
n(i V\ | lu„, Cope dep fed, t'-n Reynolds had
rt " r ! °ri T\ ,hro "Kh his means the gov
'«■ | l> r VinLlil , " fet '"P held on th»
■r- all th, m c on)eqn«ice nf which
V Mr Cur" S ar . moc ' l Pj g were arrested.
I
% sasfeas
; lu P'lfoiier ; thel'e latter dep„f et l a"" , ° f
of favor of tht prisoner. "rongly
tie To the character of the nrifn«*. .... r
il c Dr. Ba'frly and captain Gore, of J
)ft - Mount Kennedy Cavalry, and who ton IVZ '
, MJel with !r»rd .Wath ; both'trivc th,. „ .<?
d poflible charter,. caMal n t lleft
"i wh-. : fc troop the prisoner was. par!,t . rl 7»,__.
j" I '^? U <r f;> °^ c ' , ; cry M y and '"ngenibuf.
•ly in adwieffing the jury on the part of the
a fotrMr o'c";j i,bgr n ,baii ' «**
,d cr6wt , 0 Crady ' 0,1 lht P»' tOf ,h,
as f Af M ab ' C ' d * ar ' a "d impartial charge,
om Mr - C,ookft«ok, Mr. Pafon
Z Tf' Bnd Mr - J u ft ice Day, the jury re
»g tired for about five minutes/and returned
h- with 3 verdict us Guilty. r «"™ea
*- Mr. Ju t%ice Crookfhank, in a most foletno
as 3 pat , CtIC m3nn /r. pronounced sentence
ef death on the unfortnnatc prisoner, who
e- was executed tl»e next day.
»- [Obfervi.rg that one of the United Irifh
'C the ab ve witnesses was a
j it bas called to my recollection
e f f f'. II j e ofte " ,hou g''t necessary
'e to be impressed on the public mind ; which
»», that a very considerable po.rliott of the
- teachers, fehoolmafters, and preceptors, in
A are Democrat, Many
d of them have defrauded the hangman of hi»
, dues, in Ireland, and no contemptible num
ber ot arc . dually fworji United lri/b
---: men. 1 licfe mifcreanta, not by their supe
r •, 'b,- iJiU. - im
■' P«dcncc, get admission into aln.oft every
C cou,n, 7 Schonl that they fix their eyes up.
on. Ihe great eft part of them hare wives
on the " oldfod," as they call it ; but that
f* is p.. impediment to their marrying here,
| Prided they can thereby procure the meaws
i : Of living in duiukefinefs andidlenefj
II ] * 0 '
rORCUPINE J
= LIFE OF, CHAM FORT.
r a °f the advantages of birth pre-
J dl [poft US to favour a government which le
, i v ' els 311 family dilHudions, no man Co>ild be
j born a republican wore truly than Cfiamfort.
> ! He was the fruit of illicit'love, and, as it
j ftem > 'Jf promiscuous amours ; for
s , he never knew his father—a circutr.ftance
, which in no decree dimimflied his affeftion
. - for his other parent, to fuppiy w h o f c wants
f he often deuicd himfelf the ueceffaries of
. I life.
. j He was taken at a very early age into the
; College des Profits, at Paris, in quality of
Bur/or*, aad was kfiown tltere by his chrif
. ti-.'i name of Nicholas. Nothing, during
the ti*9 firft y ears, announced extraordinary
talents ; but in tne third, out of five prizes
that were distributed annually, he bore away
■ lour, failing in latin verses alone. The
next year his success was complete; and he
made a remark upon the occsfion, which
difoovered good talte, a superior mind, and
the opinion he Ventertm'ned of the judges:
" I lolt the prize last year (&id he) becaufr
I imitated Virgil ; this ye r I obtained it»
because I took Buchanan, Sarbievius, and
other moderns, for my guides."
In Greek he made a rapid progress ; but
his petulance, his wit, and his waggifli tricks
threw the class into so much disorder, that
he was expelled from it by Mr. I.obtain
tlie profefUjr of that language ; and not long
after left the college altogether. Thrown
upon the wide wo:Id, without friends ot
any means of flipport-, he was focn
to the lowelt pitch of povetty. He bore?
his misfoi tunes-, however, with philosophic
p>{ience, and cheered himfelf with the most
flatterLng hopes : " I am a poqr devil now,'* -
laid he to Self 3, anotiier man of letteri s
"but do you know what will happen? I fhalt
tbtain a prize from the academy, my play
will ItK'ceed, I fliall be courted by the
world, and by the great, whom
I defpile: tliey will ms!te my fortime for
too, alid I shall afterwarda liyc like a philu
iopiier.-"
i he firft part of this prediction was soon r -
rifiesi. He obtiined a prize, and lent a copy of
Wis rile wry M. Lebau who hat!
expelied liim fromjhe Greek class, accompa
nied by the,fjt>l{pwijng note : Cijamfott fends the
,wo'rk that has obtained the fufiVages of the
.-icadtOiy to his old Eiid refptiffable mailer; and
a: the end of uine years, bc};f his pardon for
HitiieHis." M. Lrhaw made ahfwtr " I always
loved KUlinlas; I admire Cbamforl." A
■few days afttr, they met, and'the master and
eueil rn-hiyiedriri with tea"
-■v L,uju c. ,u.ei*ir uifcn' 4 uctd'a tmati mj/iiiu.Nor was he dectlsei I >y his pk-fcntisiont o c
his future fortune. !«' <'»e carc» ar.il itirereit of
ms friends, it £Mulu*'ly fvplitd to eight orr.ine
thoufiril
it cor-Clier. of |iepfion* t and the whirlwind of :
the -swept tlitm jwjy. The day af
»rr thry were fupprefTe;J, he »&nt to fee kissel- 't
l.w academician, Mirmontrl, and foijnd him i
liineni'ntr the '.ofs that Mis children would fufTer
■ fh- Fame decree Chamfort rook one of
litem uoMri hi> knees " Come here, my little
i'ellou-," iaid he " ynu will be a better man than
either of us. Som<* day or other you will weep ?
over your father, 03 hearing that he had the 1
we3l?nef. to weep over you, heeanfe he feared '
that ynu might not he so rich as himfelf," 1
Tint meteor that rife in the French revolu- |
tion, rushed through the piUtical fyftetn like a ]
fcomet ; and disappeared in the midii of the long
turprife awl uncaly admiration it excited —Mi- (
raheau, in short, was the liriend of Chamfort,
am' often borrowed his pen. The most eloquent
pafoges in the letters 01 the order ofCir.cinnatus 1
belong to the litter. He was indeed, his conn- 1
■ fel upon all occasions.; and when Mirabeau went t
to pass an hour with him, as wa3 hisctiftom in ,
ihe morning, he used to call it going to rub the. j
most eleiSrical head he.had ever met with.
The light emitted by this e'eftrical head (
could not fail to fhirce in fippofinon to the
blading rays of\he mock fun of liberty—of '
the felon Robcfpierre — o whom talents and f
virtue were alike obnoxious.
It was difficult, however, to lay hold on
Chamfort. Frank, upright, decided and j
independent of all parties, he had iteered a '
steady course through the revolutionary
ilorm ; openly proftffi'ig an equ4 hatred of
pr-elts and nobles, and of Marat and the ;
reft of Ihe meo of blood. At the fame j
time that he was author of the faying,
" Guerre aux chateaux, paix aux chau
mieres*," he explained by the appellation
of the fraternity if Cain and /Ibethe com-
pulfive fvftem of fraternization, deviled by f
the jacobin club. _ l
At length, however, an obfeure informer
was found to denonnce him, Rnd Chamiort
was carried to the-Madelonnettert UriaMe
to obtain there the attentions, and the occa-
lional folitnde that some habitual infirmities
imperiously required, h • conceived so pro
found a horror of imprisonment. that when
,he was fuffered to return, a few days after,
to his apartments, under the cu(tody of a
guard, he swore he would ratfier die than
be immured anew.
In little more than a month, the gen
darme told him he had orders to carry him
back to a h«ufe of confinemest.—Cham- "
fort retired to a closet, under the pretence .
of making his preparations ; fired a pistol Ir
at his head j shattered the bones of his
nose ; and drove in his right eye. Aflon- 1
ifhed at finding himfelf alive, and resolved 1 .
to die, he took up a razor, tried to cut his
throat, and mangled the flefh in the most r '
dreadful manner. The weakness of his a
hand made no change in the resolution of w
his mind : he attempted fevesal times, id ®
vain, to reach his heart with the fame in-
ftrument-; and finding himfelf begin to , L
faint, made a last effort to open the veins at ,n
his knees. At length, overcome by pain, _
he uttered a loud cry, and fell almost life
kfs into a chair. |
T*hcr door "WasTirokcii "open","ants furgeonj
atid civil olHcers soon repaired to the spot. c .
While the former were preparing dressing* g
for so many wounds, Chamfort di&ated to
the la'tcr, the following truly Roman decla- -k
ration: "I, Sebastian Roch Nicholas Cham- ci
f"rt, declare it was my intention to die a t r
freeman, rather than to be carried back, like
a to a house of confinement. I de- j
clare, moreover that if violence be used to 2
carry me thither in the slate lam in, I have A"
ftill-flrength enough to fini(h what I have h;
begun." i b ,
Ah hour or two -after he became perfectly
calm, and resumed his usual ironical man-1
ner. ' See what it is (f.iid he) to want j ta
dexterity ; an awkward man cannot kill : tc
liimftlf." He then Went on to relate how j Q
he hadperfot ated his eye, and the lower part : q
of his forehead, inllead of blowing out his j
J brains; /cored his throat, instead of cutting 01
it ; fcartfied his breast, without reaching his al
heart. «' At last (added he) I recollefted fg
Seneca ; and in honour of Seneca, I resolved
to open my v. ins; but Seneca was a rich
man ; he had 1 warm bath, and every thing a!
to his wifii: lam a poor miftrab'e devil, w
and have none of the fame advantages; I oi
trcve hurt niyfelf horribly, and here I am' jjj
Not one of the multitude of wounds he al
had * lade was mortal Strange a3 it may h'
zpptar, they were even attended by beneii- CC
ti j' confrqucncea. By giving vent to an
internal humour that had long preyed upon •
his cilitftitution, they reftorcd him to a (late
of health he had be«n 3 llranger to for years; * 0
and Cha'infort now have been alive, ti l
if, when his wounds were closed, the fur- ut
geons had given iftne to that humour by i r
" . But ihey neglefted the pre
caution, and was foo.i after seized with a W(
moital diftafe.
War to ihe jiaucc, peace to the cottage. tc
S>omeUic 2
NEW-YOuCNovember s. ' f °
Helth'ofT g °f\ aUt o orUy the a "'
C'l i k" . " P ° rt has -he th
a \J' e ,na ? "fual grant ch
it" v slt V° r bound
p t,. ~ 1 ~is official a r moHucja;ion of the
° f T Clt y t0 customary state
'' aIlh « W,l [' Wf tru( t> hanilh every re K,
apprehenhon from those of our fel- an
lo.r i.i.ze.js who may yet continue in the vo
ir'v' nl ton nah'ty of a rtport is the lik
<>-y cu.urnhance wh.ch can now gi ve ihtm Tl
v , •'l "* V ' a,ms amon ff rt,bf «=
• >; l,ck. or Mho had imbibed the l U r
or d,f t rf e previous to ,he late frcfts- tro
r. \ no new casts for fe- e n
jV-al d,,, It d;Xl . )p , ;lre >t . c .
r•] l ' ! v '" '''* co,, nratnlate tfictn and our thi
',. C:lua ! s , on this happy tf>
.lai ge ; and licvc only to regret, that mi- up
13 bu/incfs t,r in gltalWe we ft.all eft
r oo:» t» ca jf*s *nd its
"c Cllri ' a •?,- n tT4itsilfd or facnfrced at
n f the Ihcinj ot tliis ftrecioas dile fe.
f, | 4
Of | '
if, I In the Im!?x to thf • fc:or.d Vofame of
*1- j the Laws of New-Voi'k, Gr^enleif s Edition,
fn occurs this odd reference,
er , St.'inE. See Town Meetings.
ot J
The queftron " Slfsfl Ave declare war a
cp Am-rioa was. lately difcufled iu
lie t ' ,e French Irgiflattire ! After a very warm
ec j debate, in the course of which a member lit-
moved to refer thequeilipn toVic
lu- tot- Hughes, peace R-as refoK-etl upon, by a j
» large majority. AT. T. Diary.
't, SPRJNGfIEU), (Masl 1 *) November 6.
THE fnccefs which has attended the
us recruiting service in this towfl, we believe
n- not frequently to have been iurpafTed. In 1
nt the (liort space of five weeks, about Fifty J
• n young men, among wham are some of the
e hardiest youths of our country, have enroll
id tbemfelves to repel the unprovoked at
tacksofan jnfi Ji >us foreign enemy. The
recruiting at this rrndezvous, has""been
id P r °f ecute d un ler the guidance of Lieuten
ants Gallon and Church.
m A Detachment ot 36, under the com.
|c j mand of Lieutenant Celton. on Ttiurfday
a l a 'l» marched for Providence (R. I.) where
y 'hey are to embark and serve as Marines on 1
board the George IVafhington, of 32 guns,
le f omman ded by Capt. Fletcher. Thejan
ior officer, whn marched with Lieut. Cqllon
, was Lieut. Caldwell, of Hartford <
Lieutenant Colton being a native of thin
n place, he carried with him, not only the ar- I
dent wishes for his success and fafetv, which
the cause naturaljy inspires ; but the' fclici- \
of juvenile sffedlion a:;d friendship.— 1
i\b a ftrici dilcipliiiariaH and a f< Wier, he | I
rt a s long worn the confidence of the commn- j .
| e nity-and his ccuntry, we trull, fkould an I I
j. opportunity piefent, will not be without 1 i
honourable evidence ef his valour.
; ~i
n icjic o t !■■'
a PHILADELPHIA,
= ' 11
FU.IDAY EVENING, NOFSMSF.R 9. h
f.*.-. Burk defies me to date that the in- i
finuation refpedling his connexion with the 1 '
, e is unfounded ; as is that of his be- ;
ing addidted to intemp-rance. j '
is 4 j '
j Every body remembers the zeal of the , '
d 1 beautiful Dawson, M. C. from Virginia, j'
•j in behalf of the Po/i/h Patriot. It is cu- ! :
(j: nous enough that he should turn out to be ; y
■ s a swindling adventurer just at the moment ! '
,f when the citizen member is puffing himfelf '
B off to his constituents, for his disinterested '
benevolence in advocating the claim 6f the c
0 former. See his address to Mb eonftituents
t in the late Virginia papeis.
, From the Baltimore Federal Gazette of
j • •
November 7.
1 This morning arrived in town, the v
chief who unites all hearts. He left t
Spurrier's pretty early, and lighted at '
. Brydcn's about 8 o'clock, escorted in by
1- captains Hollingworth's and Bentalou's j
3 troops, who went out last evening for j
e . that purpose. About 10, the sth and '
0 2 7th regiments (as many as from the '
e Ihortnefs of the notice could g't ready), j
e , had the gratification of being reviewed j
by him, in Market-street, much to the t
. fatisfaclion of a large concourse of fptc- 1
t i tators, who thronged around him, again
II jto behold the venerable Cincinnatus, and '
v i Commander in Chief of America. The
t ! •
g City Coinpany, Captain Harris, waited c
j on the General at his quarters, person-
s ally to congratulate him on once more j
1 Teeing him among them in health, and {
j* made open ranks for hint to pass through 3
as he came «ut to review the troops. He
i, was accompanied as he marched in front
I of the line, by Generals Smith and Swan;
II his Secretary, Mr. Lear ; Judge Chafe, d
e and several other gentlemen. About 11 J
y he proceeded on his way to Trenton, ef-
- corted by the Fell's-point troop.
1 The objedt of the Commander in Chief j
1 in going to Trenton, is, we understand, V
. to attend a grand council of the execu- ' N
, tive and general military officers of the
- union. The President, and the three ft
' late unfuccefsful Anbafiadors to France, t;
we also learn, arc to be preicnt. at
1 1
Americans ! what measure of grati-
tude is not due to a man, loaded with
years and glory, who so ardently wished fh
to terminate his days in the peaceful ai
fhad'es of Mount Vernon, again coming c '
' forth, to ftiftain the thought of council
and the fatigue of war, to perpetuate hi
, that liberty which he l'o gloriously at- di
chieved for his country. fr
_ fc
COMMUNICATION. u.
During his late refidfnee in Philadelphia,
Kofciufko, who is good at the pencil, to
amuse himfelf and draw the attention of the ''
young ladies as the city, used to take the * L
likeiu-fs of those wliofe features he admired. '
The young unities, considering him as an
illuflrious charader, accepted these devoirs
with avidity. It is now underflood, how- 1C
evtr, that these amiable' daughters of Co
lumbia are witnefles of his clandeltine exif
trom this couitry, and hearii'g of his un- K ,
grateful cxpicffioss and condurS in France, gii
are dcternii ed with a spirit as patriotic as
they are amiable, to consign to the fl r.ies
thrfr mem ntos <f a rt.an who has praftifed [, e
upoa them as well as their country llie low- on
eft decrptigf.s,
f s ———nirr-riiriM- tm mmm HUH
st oa3Ctie Marine fUft»
,f " Fort of Philadelphia.
"> ARRIVED. D:ys
Brig Per'gon-, Bcaty, Sc. Übes 70 :
Schr Am-, Cu'h n; r Cnrracoa, Coffee, Petit
am! Bayjfil 1
j. Lookout. from the wretk of the
in fi-Ji Difpvc'i, Bitv. Linens
Chance, "Ninhey, Maiblehead, 10 days
Barley and Fish
The sloop Union, Hawkins, of this port ar
"" r'ved at Jamaica —the Union wn rapfred by
a | the French and re-cap,iired. hy rapt Hawkins
and got lafe in die 14th of September lift.
Arrived at the Fort.
5- i Brig Florida, Haves, Havanna 40
lr " ! A (hip, fupnofed the Perfeveranctf, Wil
' e i liamfon, from Port-au-Prir.ee ; blig Molly,
t from the city of Domirigo ; Hannah,
'y \ Gildta, from N. Carolina, and fchr. ,
le Baker,- from Jamaica, are below.
'■ Captain Kelly, of the brig Molly, from
£ " St Domingo, informs, that the brig Ruby,
lc and ship North America, of this port, have • "
:n been qaptured aod carried into St. Domingo. < c
>- Ship Mars, of New York, M'Corkell 5 j
schooner Sunbury packet, of do. Williams; i
schooner Apollo, of CKarlefton, Oliver; all j
y from Honduras, have been captured off Cape ' h
e Antonio, by the French privateer Henrique,
n Captain Michel, and carried into New Or
- 9» leans.
n Arrived last evening, the Delaware, sloop
of war captain Decatur, from acruife. The I
in Delaware went to sea the 6th ultimo, and a
r- has spoke the fallowing vefiels : '
h 6th, schooner Friendship, , Portland
i- ( to th, a fchr. from North Ga
- rolina to N'wTork Bth, a fchr, blowing
e I hard, could not learn her name. 9th, brig c
1- ; Eagle, Shields, from Philadelphia to Bil- c
r» i boa, and sloop Hiram, from Rhode-Iflawl
it 'to Charleftwiir i ith, brig Lilly, from '
j Bald more Jo Boftpn, and ship Columbia, '
» i from Jamaica 10 New-York, supplied the
i latter with proviGon. 12th, Prussian (hip s
_ I De Hoop, from Bordeaux, with General 1
j Pinclfney on board, took her in tow, and (
| fa* her fafeinto New-York. 13, (hip Far- '
J mtr, M'Collom, from Rotterdam to Phila-
| delphia, 14th, fliip Philadelphia, Bliss, from r
1. ; Bristol ; (hip Liberty, Ramage, from Ham- a
e j burgh, and a British brig from St., Johns, r
.. all bound to Philadelphia, and a-fchooner
| from Portland to Norfolk. 15th. schooner
! Industry, Diamond, 29 days from Martini-
e ! que bound to Bolton in' difirefs, having been c
1( i blown out of that Island by a hurricane with a
.. ■ 20 other Americans, supplied her with pro- J
e '• visions. Brig Paragon, of Baltimore, from ( -
t | St. Übes for New-York, and a schooner
f from Baltimore to Botlon. i6:h, (hip Char-
j lotte, Dannenbey, from St. Übes to Phila- F
e delphia, and schooner Hiram, from New. 1'
8 York toCharlefton. 17th, spoke the Pa- F
ragon again, and supplied her with provi- (
(ions. 18th, a whaler from Nantucket out ''
f 6 weeks had taken nothing. 23d, fchr.
Nancy, Parker, 36 days from St. Bartho- 1
lomews to Boftoti, in distress, supplied her 0
" with pn visions and offered to take her in r
t tow which was declined—afloop from Rich- e
t mond for Philadelphia, 25th, brig Lovely
j Lass, Shields, from Philadelphia,'juft
bound to La Guira—and Packet Maria, J
Pryor, from Charleston to Philadelphia, fup
-1 plied the latter with provisions —27 th brig
1 Tryphenia, Griffin, from Bordeaux to Plvi
. ladelphia ; brig Hannah, Gildea, from North 1
Carolina to Philadelphia & sloop Patty, from 8
| N.York toSavannah-2-th brig Pe.'gy, from B
Haranna 29 das's co New-York—29th Bri f
3 tith brig Nymph, 28 days from St. Kitts '
_ to New-York, under jury maffs and sloop 2
1 Fanny. Brown, out 10 days from New Pro- '
, vidcnce to Rhode-Ifland—3oth sloop Dia- 3
11a, Volch, 3; days from Jamaica to Al-
- exandria and supplied her with provisions, '
1 captain Volch informed that the day .before 1
_ he failed, the (loop Union, Hawkin.i, ar- 11
= rived there, captain Hawkins had retaken 0
"' his vessel from the French—fqme d.:y spoke n
(ii?p Eflex, from Glouiofter to Norfolk— v
1 3 lit schooner Harriot, Lawton, from New- ~
» York to George Town, -S. C Nov. 2d.
t brig Molly K-lly, 28 days from th.' city /
of St. Domingo, to Philadelphia and Schr. _
' , Baker, 28 days from Jamaica, to
> do. 3s.brig Two Brothers, Allen, from
New Orleans to Bartholomews,-and supplied
her with provisions and water—also the brig c<
Hannah, Gildea, again—sth saw several B
fail Handing in for the Bay and several un- Si
f dcr C.ipe May to anchor, wind N. W. by
, W. 37th passed the United States frigate at
New-Caltle.
On the 27th ult. at merediau Captain
Decatur saw a fail bearing E. by N. and
(lood for her. 28th at 2 P. M, the fail ~
tacked and flood to the N. E. and immedi
ately the Delaware stood after him. At
half pad do. ht hove the raaintopf.il aback
At 3P. M. observed her to be a large sri- m
gate and being so near as to observe signals,
(hewed him the private signal between him 1
and the Frigate States, which he at
did not answer, then (hewed him (he gene- itv
ral signal for the Unitid States Navy for the (] e
day, which he did not answer, then Ihewed
him the British signal for the i'ay which lie _
did not answer, then wore ship and (lood
from him to the wellward and he did not
follow, Capt. Decatur rot being fatisfied
tacked (hip, after him and got so near as to
clearly fee that (he was a very large frigate,
shewed him again the Britfh signals, which
he did not answer, but wore ihip and croud- H .),
»d fail for the Delaware, which vessel immc- eX i
diately wore and crouded from him, at jo W
minutes pall 4 he hauled his wind to the
N. by E. after chafing the Delaware about '
10 minutes.
Baltimore, O&alcr f.
Arrived, schooner Patriot, Manning, from Cur-
icoa, which he k/t on the ult, and has efyii
gin/lv f#V'.urcd 11s w:fh ihe following particulars : an(
Th* (»u the n*n ()ft'>her he saw a>i American
uken in of th« ha'b.»ur by a Fiench priva- ir,r '
tevr, which' it the riay hwtore. The lietbooter
belonged 10 a Mad«««n Pecker, of Curracoa, and had *
00 board the following villainous Americana—viz. ten
IOLOMON GEERj who iall frtm Baltimore, i
r* ; of ,h ' fct ' onn '" I-'cind-.: JQTC MATH "A*;
h from nutc ryf ihr f no v >:i. i.Vn a.
" PSf KR L \GOCK. }J$ from Ko&lk b.
•he f liM'j three u-;; ,0 ve
in piocyin r( hr of ->ll t'"!. Amt.-icau
P'openv (ivvenu l '*. by giving all i'ie infjrrm-
lion thev could n*tHMv inv-nr,
Tic Govcrmr or CiKacoa bsin»informed ths - t'\c
JO abnre briij wjj c»|»iu tjd witjjin the (imiit of th<* If
tlt a■ ■ • prefT.-tf a SwcHt-li fchoo:ie', manned her with
r eamrr. 11 ilce Dutch fr ; g!tcj, and tmmc
tif diatclv fctit her ii i)ur r iiit o l ihe brig ; but be'ojbut
failed fbe re ( »i'n»d w : rh *u' '"uceefs.
O.i ihe 16 h, the d»v before c ipt M'» failing, ths
Cou icil of pr-frirrd a oeri'i 'n to the Gov
ernor, u rued by some of th* principal merchant! of
'he place, for an ar're.l of Miriam Poekett'* oroaeiry
'V for taking Amcii.-aiu within rhe limits of tne iiland,
ns bound ni:h:r. The prayer of the petition it wa«
expected woubt be granted the next day
On the T4 - h eapt Sneli, of the fch Amphi
-0 o! New York, arrived it Curracoa, with
" four of his piople In an open boat, having left
his fell, mate and th reQ of his bands, on the
), reef of tjir ifl.tnd. nf Avei. She was from Sur*
b, ririam 'T D/merara, bound to Curracoa, and
was run afiore on tile inortiing of the 6th of Oc
tober. Me hail chartered a Spanish fch to five
m the pei<ple and as m»-h of the cargo as pafTiblc.
f, > Lrft tit Clrracrt for adjuiicathni
re Snow Maryland, I'.axbury Baltimore
I Fanny, Hirry (j 0
i f.ajtlt', Ooodbue Ipswich
> | Polly 4 Sally, Richmond
1; j Mr Tahb, fnpftratga—tlte master not tbere.
11 | 1 iie Ketch Ejenezjr, of Newlmryport, has
, tf ! been captured an ! canried into St Domingo.—
s (lie mate ca'oc nanienjrer with rant Manning.
The brig Kuhy, of Philadelphia, hid alio
been captured by a Frenchman, but retaken, by
the rtritifh. The French prize mailer hid ar
rived at Curracoa. k
P A capfain who hid arrived there from St..
e Bartholomews, informed that all the Americans
d at Gnadaloiipe were imprifone.l, and that Viflor
Hugues had gone ta Frame in a eorvcit*
d _ „
i- BoJ!*n, Nov. I. j
<t Arrived schooner Oaroltna, Taylor, Port
g de Pais, 26 days. Condemnations at Port
1- Paix o<ft. 6, the YVarren, Ctiurch, and
( ] Marii, Folder, of New-York ; Sillers, Uia
d dilh and Little Auld, Baltimore:
1( Betsey, Dennis, Salem ; Dolly, Hunter,
ie Charleston ; Thomas and Sally, Gilbert,
p and Jotjn Eaflon, Cooper, Norfolk ; Sis- -
a | ters,—,iNew-Yoik.— Christian, Dugaid,
d (an English prize baught by an American) }
r . failed for N. Carolina, 4 —Left at
1- Port de Paix, trading, the Ranker, Cod
-11 m iW> Boflon ; Mary, Warner, Norwich;
j. and no others. An Hermophrodite Ame-
S( rican brig, a prize", was going up as the
;r Caroline came out. I
■ r A Packet arrived attlje Cape on the ift
OA. in 28 days from France. Nothing
n certain had transpired. Rumor hinted that 1
Ji an accommodation had taken place between
France and America. In lat. 38, 58, long.
n 62, 30, spoke brig Eagle, Weeks, who
r had ioft his main mall and bo'wfprit in long.
.. 66, after being out 22 days from Philadel
. phia for Bilboa ; was then returning to Phi
• . ladelphia to repair damages, but would j
. probably put into Newport or New-York. ,
. Capt. Dennis, of Salem, came passenger
t in the Caroline. Privateering from Port
de Paix is prafh'fed with more spirit and a
trocity than ever. There is, as yet, plenty
r of provifions—aconftant supply being de
n rived from piracy. The. Mole was evacuat- '
1. Ed by the English O<EI. 1, and thus the field
Y for French plunder is extended.
l( ExtraSfrom the logbook of the schooner Imduf
>■ try, commanded by the Mate, William Bar- j
g rett, from Martinique.
Sept 17, at 8 p. m. a hurricane drove me
h to sea, the captain being on fliore. The
„ gale continued about 12 hours, and having
n neither anchors nor boats, and being forced
| far to leeward—thought best to fleer for 5
3 Boston. Next day saw a Danish brig in
p great diflrefs ; and soon after met with a
fchaoner witnout a person on board. Lat.
. 30, long. 68, spoke the brig America, I
|. bojnd to Kennel>iink (mentioned in the !
t last Mercury.) Next day, spoke brig Ife
e trieve, fiom Trinidad, had loft her main
.. mast. OA. Ij, spoke the Delaware sloop
1 •war, capt. Decatur, who gave us a bar- j -
e rel of bread—and offered any thing else we
wished
' Cj- WANTED
' A Carrier for this Gazette
' Macpherfon's Blues. \
1 THE Cavalry, Artillery, and Infantry
r corps in this city, composing Macpherfon's 1
[ Blues, are ordered to parade at the Centre
. Square, at Nine o'clock To marrozu morn -
ing, completely equipped.
By order of the Commandant.
THOMAS M-EUEN,
1 Adjutant, p. t.
[ Nov. 9.
POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, gth Nov. 1798. 1
The Poft-Office will be re- c
moved to its usual place, No. 34, South r
Front-ftrect, on Saturday th£ 10th inft. „
at 12 o'clock noon, and on lyionday >
morning the letter carriers will begin to j',
deliver, irt their difinch, as formerly. L
Nov. 9. ir
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Will re-commence drawing it; ihf cotirfe of p
the prifer.t month.
I'MCKETS 10 be had Eight Dollars e*ch, at
1 WILLIAM BLACKKOKN's Lottery ~
and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street,
where, check books are kept for registering ,-nd T
examination of Tickets in the aboye, City of
Washington and Patterfon Lotteiies, &c.
>tate or t 1 « Whiii, u
One prize of 10,ouJ dollars 10,000
Five y 4,oo» 20,000 n
Two a,OOO 4,000 c°
Two v i,oco a,OOO to
Ten jco J.cor bu
Twenty-lei-en 200 5,400 tei
With a full proportion of the one hundred m '
and of the fifty dollar pri«»—ifh Lottery is
more than two thirds drawn an 1 above n,i
dof!ar» rii.her than at the commencement. 00
'- 'T Note, the buTijicfi of a Broker duly at a ?
tended to in all its benches. ' P*
nov 9 saw
k »! *»* Tlie Plh.li. .IT' i;,t" i{.-. (}jj
I.i Alderman's Court or this- City, villiv
•m ncw AijJr fittings on Thurfrfay next thr
t jth of November. :nft. at tcu o'clccld
y in the forenoon at the City-Hail as ufuaK
If- q - - • ft •
HUDSON y YORKE,
NO, 54, NORTH .FRONT JTHkI,
Ks HAVE JU-T RECEIVED,
( v )( P er . the latt arrivals from Europe,
ty A VERY COMPLETE ASSORTMENT OF
$ DRY GOODS,
j_ Winch they will dispose of on rtafonallt ttrnu,
J, AMONGST V/HICII ARB
r Superfine and coarf'e cloths, coatings,
Elaftic and lancy do.
Caflimercs. plains, duffiis
" ftofe ar.d {tripe blanket! well assorted in fmill
hales
Furniture chinties, cottons and diroeties
' c Callimancoes, camblctj, durante mureens,
"■ joan!
Muflicsot all kinds
- t Velvets, velverets, tliiekf»tt» and fancy cords
An elegant alTortment of riboons
(, Red, white and yellow flannels
d Ked anH green hocking and wtlfji biizv-s
e . An invoice cutlery and hardware
is CVtopades, fluwls, printed lundkcrch.efs
_ 7 ° 4-4 x: 8 checks
9-8 & $ 4 cotton flripas
*0 Norton, u-orfted and silk hosiery
do do Gloves
i breads, bindings, tapes, &c. &c.
,)OY '>• <hßt
l' s J'ift imported,
jr A quan. ity iris falt-petra refined
Gun powder F 3 0 J double fenled battle
and 6 pnundei*
London porter and Burton Ecer
MultarU Pfuarcs, 4 ounce*
•J Durham tnultard
•t 6ingh?.i|ss, fubjeil to drawback
j All of which wiii be told on moderate terms by
HEKRY DALIES-, junr.
' No. fouth Second llred, oppoiite the
• city tavern.
K °v- 9 mw&f tf
i.' ALL PERSONS,
TTAVJNG claim* ap-ainft th{ Fstate of
I, 11 SUDANI* AH LQCKr. li, deceased, are
) tequefted to present their n fpeilive accounts to
t NATHAN A, SMITH, 1
i / " n S
; JOHN DORSET, )
e A L£ ASE OF THE HOUSE
Lately occupied b\ Suf.miuih Lockyrr, t j'ftber
t -with THE STOCA OF GOODS,
y Are to be difpof'ed of 1 i.ne will be give:, sot
j the latter on un-exceplionable feeurity.
nov 9
n Z. :
For Sale, cr Ch rt
.^I®Ipa BURTHE
A coppered, and i
India voyage. She mounts 14 , . „
remarkably well—
r A-L S 0 %
J- MOTTNTlNc"foiir.-
t ders, coppered and fails remarkably fall— j.tl .m
, about 1000 barrels.
" FOR TERMS APTLT TO
Willivgs £s* Francis.
v / Pcnii Street.
'• novembcr 9 diw
For London,
: £$L 1"e"a N,
, T 'StfWKSKxI Captain Daniel M'Piierson,
d WILL be ready 19 take her car
ir go ou board by the 15th inft.—Fof term, apply to
n Rofs £3* Sirnfon.
a WHO HAVE iOR SALE,
t. Superior Teneriffe Wine,
1, Tn quarter casks.
e Bengal Sugar, firft quality, iti boxes and bagt
A few bales of MuQms.
„ Rice in Tierces,
And a small cargo of St. Martin'# SALT.
* rovember 9 dtf
e for Sale or Charter,
™ E SH ' F <
COMMERCE,
; John Wood, majlir.
Tin . ship is burthc-n as ptrregillcr 2jo Tons,
will be fold on moderate terms or take»fiti 'ht
for Europe or the WeQ-Indies,
' A]>'y to the Captain onboard at Latimer's
s What 1, or WII.L IfiGS (J FA A.WIS.
y FOR SALE,
On hoard J,'aid Ship,
i6Tons of Liverpool house Coal,
' nov 9 diw
" r "* NOTICE "
To Owners of Carriages, and
Retailers of Wine
XN confutjucence of the late Epidemi - in this
City, numbers have neglefted to enter their
Carriages, also the retailers of Wine and Spi
ri.t« to call and take out their Licences. The
returning health of the City, the Office is re.
moved frrmi Germantown to its former place,
r No. 49 North Tliird-ft.-eet, 'vhrre those who
• have neg'efled mtjft call and pay the duty on
their Carriages, and thofc retailer a take put theit*
Licences—Their ready compliance will prevent
incurring the prnaltv ni rhe Law.
JAMES ASH, Cclkaor
of the 1/7 Surycj of the \ft
Division of Pennfflvariia,
Philadelphia, Office of liifpeflion )
No, 49, North Third-llrcet. 5
nov 9 mw&fjw
John Haines isf Win. Jones,
BEG leave toinform their'friends and the public,
that they have commenced a Co-partnarfhip
in tht SADDLING BUSINESS, which will in
future be earrirdon under the firm of
HAINES JONES,
n Market tlreet, No. 134, oue door above the
corner of Fourth, —vrhcre they presume (it lraft
to h»pe) that their attention to, and knowledge in
iiuGnefj, th ir determination to serve on the bfft
terms, anil their as Native A>
Government and C»nftitution of
their Country, will entitle them to the encourage,
mentof a generous puMic. Although th;y can.
not l.oad of having tc jtiired their eiperidnce io
any part of Europe, yet they take the liber;y of
pifdging 'hemfilvcs, that their (kail
be inferior tj cor.e ic this city.
iunc il. tuthstl
£Y~M v >1 . , -< V.
>gar.r'V ■iwt i TtJwteJMw' mmmm*—» f jt
_ _ j c
PROPOSALS, , "
n
BY THE
Injur ante Company qf North A merica. e
For iNsuKANtt agaitill Firi, on Dweling- j,
Hoi'jfes, Ware Mouses, and other Buildings (and
On Goods con-:r,i« din such Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United States. t \
I Common Infurartcei, on hazard* orf the firft
elals, will !>c undertaken at a premium of ahont j
hali per cent per annum. For extra fvizardou*
rif<l'"-<. a larger premium will be required, which "
will vaty according to cireunftances, f»iiom ex- c
teeding on;- per cent. per annum ; but in fomc in- c
ftai'ces, where rh" property insured w not only in
itfclf extra hazardous, but rendered (till more so t
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and t
occupations, the premium demanded will be i-aifed 1
according to circumftar.ces.
Houses and Ware-Houses, the walls and pnrti- t
tions of which are wholly of ftotie or ->fick, well b
conftruclcfi, so a* to b« guarded as well asnfiiy be
agtiiiill fires from within, aud iree from extra ha
zardous buildings arid occupations in their neigh- (
borhood, will be deemed hazardous ot the firft
elals. and may be insured to their full value.
Ms" Goods and Merchandize, not of an extra -
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or package*, de
pof tc.l in such building") to an amsunt not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars; but if more than thisfum 1
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi -
tional premium will be required, in proportion to e
cirmmltaaces. ]
11. 'nfurances will also be made on buildings and j
good xtrj hazardous, at premiums proportioned j
to th» rifoue. But it is Hot c--fy to arrange these j
ttr-der par-icnlar heads or classes, so as to describe
each with the necefTary accuracy. Each caf- mud
th--refi ne he decided upon accordingto the circum
flv'i;e»a temjingh ; ar.d these circdmfbances wili,
Jngcaj.-t.il, appear from the description accompa
uymg the application.
Buildings partly coflQru&ed of brick or flflne, "
are preferaMe to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of buileing, how they are oc
cupied, how they are fitu.'teil, the pt-ighboriog
buildings, and how ccirupied, are confutations to
' be taken into view. And withrefpsil tsgoods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are • xpoled, eith' ■
to commence or to incr"alie an accidental fire, a?.d
their liability in such (tate to receive damage by f
■ wet, or by fuddqn and hatly removal, or to be fto- (
len in time of corfufion and hurry, are all c*ir- c
cumllnnces of weight $ and the premiums must be f
proportioned accordingly. [
HI. The following conditiont arc to be under- r
flood Vy the parties. £
lit. she Insurance is net binding till the ftipu
lafed premium be vaid ; hut it (hall be deemsd ef- j 1
feetual ( rom the time of such payment ami accri?-
tanre thereof, whether the policy be immediate!) ' c
ligned or not.
3d. Infuraiicss mrty be renewed at the exp:ra- ®
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex- '
p.*nfr«than the payment of th« premium of the re
newed term,the circumstances continuing the fame
as they were uTiderltood by the In fun rs at the time
th': former insurance was made ; but the paymmt
of the premium is efiential to such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time; nor can the insurance be renew
ed en the firmer policy but by computing the
com® _ncrment of the renewal from the expiration
of tl)c former itifuranre. The fubjeifl of insur
ance may ne'«efthelcfs be open to treaty for' a new
i/ifur,n,t.c.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame
property ; it must he made known at the t.nie of -
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trnlV, or on coufignment,
raay 'be insured as such in a separate policy ; but
thi> ate not re be eonfidered as insured utherwife. 0
sth. This company will not be liable or aecoun
tablc lev any loss or damage occafioncd by any for-
iuvafion, or by Jny miliwry or usurped forfe
or !>y peafoa of any civil commotion ; or occasion,
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th
hke kind liept in the building, or amongst the pro
j:trty insured.
6th. Dills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secti-
Title Dirfds. Money, Bank and other pro- „
miffery Notes, are rot included in any insurance ; J
nor are paintings, medals, jewels, gems, antique £
curiofitii ", or ir.:rrors exceeding the value of twen- t
• j.five dollarseneh, to he eonfidered a 6 insured une q
less psruculurly mentioned and by special agree- 0
mcnt. t
-th. No infuratrce will be made for a shorter t
tero: than ore year, nor lor a longer term than fe
■ven years, Persons chooting to inf»re for seven t
ye'irs flis'll b c allowed one year's premium ly way [
of difeounc: One third ot a years premium shall
he abated in like manner 011 an insurance for *
tliree years.
Bth. Lofles fullained by fire on prof trty inCused,
•lhall be paid ill thirty days after due fTfo..f and li
quidation thereirf, without deduflion.
A delct ipt ion of the property to be iiffurod will 1
■ he cxprdted with eSch application, to be made by
a malUr carpenter audjigned by him, as well as a
bv th'i owner of the building oi applicant for ill- ,
furiiice, and attested belorc a Notary or principal t
M ,"iftrate, who will ce-rtily his knowledge of the ,
parties and their credibility.
With refpeil te lloufes and other Buildings. ,
id, 1 lie site and, position ; describing the ,
fireer or road on or near which the building j
Hands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir- ]
.ruwflancet relative to the extinguishment of fire 1
in cal'e of accident f and particularly whether a
ln y and what fire companies are eftablilh»d, and :
engine® provided, ift the place or neighbourhood. ;
ac. The materials of which it is built, whe- j
(her of brick, stone or wood, and what part of ;
each, as weU as to the outside walls as inside or 1
partition walls, and t'neir refpeflive height and
thicknels ; the style of the roof and of what
matei ials ; howfecured by battlements or par
ty wall* ; what kind of acccfsto the top of the
•huul'e aid t6 the chimnies ; whether any and •
what eleflric rods ; the number and kind of , 1
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for ashes. j t
3 d. Ihe dimenfn.ns of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so ■
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what |
manner it is tp be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the "ge and condition of the tuilding,
,»lul how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling hotife, or for any other, and for what pur- j J
pose , also aneflimate of the value of thehouie
or buildmg independent of thegrcund.
4tb. Ti't lituation with refpeel to other build- [
lugs or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at lea It one hundred Teet
each way : what kind of holdings »re within
that distance, how btiilt, ot what materials,and
how'occupied or improved, whetWer as dwel
lings for private fainili»« or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
ricd on, and particularly whether there be any
„xtra hazardous articles used, or uftially depa
rted in the house, or within the distance afore
foid, and of what kind.
Ktlpe#in££®!wfr in HoOfes, \\ arehoufes, &c.
1. A "?t?eial description of the building in
wfich tiicv are kept will be expelled, finlilar in
all rel'pefi»,as to thedJngerfrom fire, with that ,
1. quircti for Insurance "on the buildings them
' description of the kinds and nature of i
U e goods, whether in calks or other packages. ,
or opened ; and whether difplaycd in whole
.f twes or in »1» ulual form for retailing. And
t
| ''vc gto.U .ji y fnafei iii'y irt kii|rf, a general
I cfii:na'e of thr v«tuc of each kind proposed to j
Oe insured ; but iu the lalt pirticular minute
ness of difcripti jn i» not cxjio-Ted.
Article* of the following kiudnare deem
' ed extra l.aaardous, though in various degree;,
■ ' in whatever bniWipg ihty may be pjaced, viz.
'' pitch, tar, tiu-p;ntine, rofm, wax, tallow, oil, (
11 inflammable spirits, firlphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened.—
„ Gkifs, china ware or porcelain, especially un- k
. packed; Looking glalTts,jewelery ; and all o
(i. ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
h or rrore than commonly liable to injury by lud
.. den removal or by mtiiilures, or particularly
obuoxioiis ta theft on an alarm of fire.
n Letters pull paid, diredad to the Secretary ot
0 the Board of Direiilors, will be duly attended
d to. An ordrr for fnfurance acconrparied by the
d maans ot paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed otfVhe ptemium being paid. 11
i- the application contain an enquiry only, it will
11 be.answered.
>e Br order of the Board,
>- EBF.NEZIER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
1_ Office of the Insurance Company, Nortel )
® America ; Philad. Feb. 1, 1798- J
Feh. 14. iamtf
:- Batik of Pcnn/ylvdnia, j
c " September «d, 179?.
I I "f TTHERSAS the Houle at piefent occupied
VV by the Bank of Pemifylvania waojenter
-0 ed on the night of th; firft instant, by forne vil
lains, who robbed the institution of iundry
Bank Notes, amongst which were the follow
k ing post notes of the Bank of New-York, viz.
No jcroi, dated 13d of Augiift, 1798, jMolls
iffited in favor of Seabring & (
Van Wyck, for 396 ,
[; No 1003, dated jjthof Anjruft, 1798,
j. iiTued in favor of Montgom- 1
and Newbold so»- 1150 ,
e, No 1006, 27th do. do. do. acoo
in 1007, do. do. do. do. 20fco 1
c- iooßi d<\ do do. do. 100 a i
ig 1009, do. do. do. do. 1000
0 iojo, 28th do. do. do. 2000
s, ion, do. do. do. do. 2000
,r toil, 30th do. do. do. 1500
~ T roi.i, do. do. do. 00. Iceio
; ' Also I'ui.dry poll notes of the Bank <<f Penn-
Y fvlvinia, dated 2id July 1797, iffueJ in favor
nf George Hughes, for one t'houfand dollars
r " each, and Ijwdry post notes of faiil Bank, da
,c ted I,sth of M-, 1797, ifltfed in favor of Geo.
Hughes, fur five hundred dollars each ,-nJ in
dort'edbyhim. The public are hereby caution
ed against receiving the said no:e-, and a re- -
f. ward of TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS is
hereby offered for th - difcovtrv and conviction
of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
ed in the faTd robbery, in addition to the rtwird
ofiered by the Governor of tht Commonwealth
[. Tn his Proclamation of this day.
> By orcler of the Board,
a JONATHAN S.MITH, cashier.
a , FOR SALE,
d The Cargo of the Schr. Smcerity
Benjamiu Monteith Maftar, from L3guira,
j CeNSISTINC o»
.94? Feaegas of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora Indigo
210 Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins
v By IVillings & Francis.
No. Elev«*ith-(lrect.
e july 2: dtf
)f . ■-
Madras and Ventapaulem
t HANDKERCHIEFS,
it Seartiukers and Carradarrfes,
of the aeweft and molt a)»provedpatterns,entitled
1- to che drawback, just received,
> AN a TOR SALE BY
=• Alex. J. Miller & Co.
'> No. 64, South Front street.
may 18. 5
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
1- "TNESERTED from my Detachment at Borden-
J- i ' town this day, a Marine, by name Gcorgt
1 Rodman, a Native of Irelai.d about years of age
ie fivj ieet eight or nine inches high, dark complec
-- tion, black hair tied; black eyes well madu and
ie qaarrelfone, when in liquor is lotd of singing—had
e- on a blue fcStnan's jsckett light pantaloons, cot
ton Stockings, round Hat, and had under his Pan
-r taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
£- Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer
:n tar to the Matins Camp, (hall receive the above
•y Reward.
111 -jt j -o ? HEWRY A. WILLIAMS,
3r «aober ix,. 79 8 j Lt. Marines
i ADVERTISEMENT.
111 TTTHEREASpAMisCuMMtNc ts* Co. late oi
>T W the city of Philadelphia, merthants, have
as afiigned over all their effects, rPal, personal and
ll " mixed, to the iubferiuers, for the benefit of al'
a ' their creditors, who (Vail fubferibe the said allign
le ment within fix months from the date hereof.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to allperfoni.
who are indebted to the said estate, that they are
ie required to make immediate payment of their rcf
'g pective accounts, to the Aflignees, at their oflice
r- No. 62, Dock street, in failure whereof aiftiom
re will be instituted for the recovery of such debts a?
tr are not discharged accordingly,
id | J°h n Travis, ~j
t , l ohn L Aflignees
1 James lay lor, I 0
K I Cornelius Comtgys J
1( ] asgust 18 mwftiD
tit
r . Wanted to purchase.
Ie A PPROVED bills on Amsterdam, for which
id calh lie given at the rate of thii-ty fe
of | ven cents per Guilder. Apply to the Caftiier of
j the Bank of the United Statts.
Wj September 2id, 1798.
so
Mails for South-Carolina Georgia,
PACKETS are now provided for carrying the
__ Tublic mailsby water hstween Phila.ieTphia
" r '" , and Charleston. i'hey will leave Philadelphia
|je en Friday's. Th« post by land will heccminn
-1 ed twice a week until an experiment i* made in
| regard to the expedition and regularity of the
packets. If any person chufes' to have their
tt ' eners ,l " nt b y ' » n 'r. 'hey will pleas? to
write the wotd Land upon the letters : otber
|ltj wife they will he sent by that conveyance which
, will firft start after the letters are left in the
pot-uffice.
i r . 'Joseph Haberjham,
ny Pojl- Majler Gemerl.
'<*- Philadelphia, -dugujl 13, 1798. J
rc- I
Pennfylvan*a Hospital,
' 9 mo. I, I7»8.
! XJO person with an infeiftious disease, can be
in IN admitted into tiiis house ; it is thsrefore ear
iat ncltly recommended to the citizens, not to fend
n * or I ring any such patient to die gate, who is ill
with the prevailing fever. Several persons having
°f been lent hero improperly, is the reason of giving
'«■ tJus caution.
S S^rt^n°ier;} FrIANCIS HWGI.NS,Wi.
- I
Dengal Goods,
CONSISTING GF
BANDANNA MANDKRRCHII'.PS, J
Chintz C'offas Maharazgungy 1
Cl.;n:z Guzzif.is, l'ookereys a
( J'.liabad Bjfras Wrought Mufiins -
\
l.ong Drawers
Coarf; Sugara in bags, fit for the European markets '
i ALSO,
Carolina (»dig<>
■ _ Coffee iri hogsheads
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINK
For Sale, oil reasonable terms, by *
John Craig,
I v No. 12, Dock-ttrect.
f jnly 14 mwi-tf
Tea Dollars Reward. t
DESERTED from the Guard House in New <'
Callle, this morrring, Sttphen Bowden, a
' priv„tt: \lirine. belonging to ihe Frigate United
Stat.9. He is a*ou: 36 years of sge, five feet ten
inches high, fair complexion, light hair. blue eye*,
born.in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Prior
to the sth of June, the date of his cnlilinit-m, l.<
resided in Philadelphia, where it rs probat>le he
will endeavour to go. Any person who w.ll ap
prehend th.' i'aid ricf.-rter, and le.urc him in any
jail within the United States, (hall be intilled to -
the atove reward.
F. WHARTON, Capt. Marines. }
I New.Catlle,Oa. 8.
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. £
Notice is hereby given, t
"PHAT agreeably to 311 a& of Congress of the
1 United ijtatei of America, palled at Pi-iila- t
delphia the 28th day of May-, 1796, laving du- 'I
ties on carriage* for the conveyance of perf©ns, and •'
repealing the forrser ail» lor that pm-pofe —Ihat I
there shall be levied, cojledtcd and paid, upon all C
carri?gcs for the conveyauce of persons, which 1
Shall be kept by or for any person, for his or her 1
own use, or to Ut out to hire, or for the convey- 0
ing of paflengers, the several duties and rates sal-
lowing, vix. dolis. j
For and upon every coach 15 j
upon every chariot 12 r
upon f very post chariot 12 ,
upon every fqft chads 12
up6n everyphieton, with or without top 9
"jpor. every coachee 9 (
uprm other carriages, having panne! ~)
work above, with bfinds, glafles, > 9 !
or curtains J 1
upon four-wheel carriage?, mrvmg} '
frame pods and tops, wilh Keel >6
springs _ J v
upon four-wheel top carriages, with ") 1
' wooden or iron forings on jacks j '
1 upon curricles with tops 3 t
upoti chailes with tops 3 i
' ipon chairs with tops 3 i
' upon sulkies with taps 3 0
upon other two wheel top carriages 3 e
upon two wheel carriages with lteel") „ i
or iron ."firings J J t
For and upon all otner two wheel carriages 4 j
upon every four wheeled
j having framed ports and tops, > 1 .
a»d relling upon wooden spars J I
The Colleilor of the revenue of the firft division
of the firft survey of the diflridt of Pennsylvania,
will attend daily until the 30rU day of September
next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on 1
carriages, at Germantown, cn the Main street, a
little above thu fifn of the King of Pruflia, »f (
which all persons poffefCed of such carriages are 1
delired to take notice.
Notice is also given,. 1
To all retail dealers in wines and foreign distilled 1
fptrituous liquors, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the business of
retailing of win s in a less quantity, or in less
uantities, than 30 gallons—and one licence for '
arrying on the business of retailing fpiriiuous li- 1
quors in less quantities than twenty gillons, at the
fame time and at the fame place, by
JAMES ASH, 1
Colle&or of tbe ilk division of the ift 1
Survey of the diitxiit of Pennlylvania. 1
Office of Infpeflion at Germantown, ") <
22d August, 1798. j t
£? Every denomination of Stamps to be had <
' at said office. 1
The Stamp Press is removed, 1
i to'the Office of Infpeition in Germantown, on the c
d Maih ?.roct, a little a6ove the sign of the King of 1
_ Pruflia,—»where attendance will be given for the (
_ accommodation of those who wilh any inHrumants *
(lamped, on Tuefdaye, TlxirfJays and Saturdays, c
ugusta 22 :
e Wants Employment, '.
A YOUNG MAN, who nasferved a regu- t
lar apprenticelhip to the mercantile bull- i
. nefi in this city, wilhes to engage in a Couuting I
house or office, writes a good hand and under- (
Itands accounts, can be well recommended and 1
ftcurity given if required. Enquire at the i
i office of this Gazette. 1
jme 21 i.iwtf ,
Bafkenridge—f or Tale
IT consists of 920 acres, almost all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late '
«, Eerl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided '
B into five farms, four of which are bounded on the '
. Eafl by the river Pafaiek.
Th re are 011 it a number of buildings, forming | '
, afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house '
s is a veryconvenieiitone.andjttfmallexpence wouJd !
put it in complete repair. I
The orchard consists of I joo finsbeariug engraf- '
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said '
traift near 300 othtr Apple Trees—as also a great '
variety of other fruits,particularly Clljerriesof the 1
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and i
Forafl Tis<«, that add to the beauty and eonveni- j
ence of the place. Its situation is about i 3 miles (
. from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth :10 do. |
fr»m Morris-Town, aud 12 frorm Springfield—lt
~ is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, >.he price is five pound pr. acre
incafb, on delivery of the deeds. Pieafe to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut treet.
, cbmary 2. eodtf
I Patent Ploughs,
a r T n O be fold for ca(h by Joseph Salter at Atfion
[. -«■ Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
n Harker, Woodbury—aad Jelfe Evans, Lumher
e ton, Those who have used them give them the
r preference to any other kind, as tliey require
0 less team, break the ground better are kept in
_ order at less ex pence and are fold at a cheaper
j, rate—the plan is much Amplified and consists of
e but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and
beam «f wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lays and coultei i to be put 011 wilh ferews and
taken off at pleasure
Patent rights far vending with inftruflions for
making them may be had by applying to John
~ Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 212 North
Front-flreet.
Who has for Sale;
ie Or to Leafc for a term of tears,
A number of valuable tra&s of Land, well
d situated for Mills, Iron .Vorks or Farms, most-
II ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of H»n
---g tingdon state of Pennsylvania. Those who may
S incline to view tkem will please to apply to
John Caiun esq. near Huntingdon.
J. Claries Nczvbold.
j ,J, y n uwtf
- >
5
L A M P n L A c ft.
A quantity of Lawpbtj* was left during the
Fever, at tlic O?.co of the Gazette of the Unit!
Ed htaies,—fnppofed through mifhke the
requeued , 0 «H and £ake " t Ite
J NOT HER S7^ONG~PROO^~
Of the great and unparalleled efficay of
Br. CHURCH's COUGH DROPS
in the Care of
C.a»gb{> Cold I, Jitbmas & Consumption
Aew-rsrk, July i o> 1798. 1
lo Dr. Church,
Sir,
For upwards of Twelve Tears, I hive U
bored under a severe Caugh, fljortnefs of breath
fpimng or ra«tter from my lungs and often of
clotted ,lood. till at Ungth I was # reduced as'
to be unajle to wa.k ivrofs my room, and ow
ingrto■ tne- vi knee of my couch ami the ftort
ne£ of breath could get no reft day or night.—
Hearing of votir excellent medicine, the Couch
Drops, I procured a bottle ; I took a dose as
loon as I got it, from which I found inilantane-'
ous relief, and by continuing it for three days,-
I bless God lam restored to perfeft heahh. As*
I believe you to have been the inltrument m the
hands of Providence, of laving mv life, 1 muf?
in treat you to publifl, this fsr the benefit of any'
who may be in my situation, a, I, m confident
1. is one of the bed medicines in the world for
thole complaints.
lam, Sir, your grateful servant'
ICJCHO'L AS ST AGO,
Little Robinson-street.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Are prepared and fold by thelnventor and Me'
proprietor, Or CHURCH, at hi, Difp»nfcry,'
Waihirtgion-ftreft, New-York, and at his of
j'r,?, 1 ' S ° Uth Jh ' rd "'M. Philadelphia,
and fold by appointment at Mr Wecdman'a 118
V\ tlnam-ftpeet, and Stilwell & Deioreft, ,fiy
I earl-.lreet, Manciuff, Albany,
I rice, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandra, VVil-'
son, Wilmington, &u. & c .
OBSERF E,
As 1 counterfeit preparation of this medicine
has been industriously circulated through some
of the principal cities in the United itarcs, per
f.ns are requefled f purchase them of such per
loii% only as have Dr Church's appointment for
vending the fame. Powers, I'oughkeenfie— r
Chappel, Head of Elk—Bond and Co. New-'
castle Heinitfh, Lancafter—Blauvelt, Brunf
wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c.
%* Patients letters (Post paid) addrefled to
Dr I'harch, New-York, duly attended to.
a "g" ft iaw 3 w
This Day Published,
Arid for ftxle at the Office of the Editor, No.
119 Chefnut-ftrcet,
(Price 1 -itb of a Dollar,)
adoration,
Pronounced July 4,17,98,
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in commem.rauon of the anni-
Wrl'ary of American In-dependeece.
By Josiah Qumcr.
" The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation—-Tine wrongs w t have faltaiped,
call for—Justice. 1 hat Reparation and thit
Justice, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Ft mine-; But to divide and conquer was
the maxim of tfie ISevil in the garden of Eden
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
ple of all bis votaries from ihat period to th«
present."
Obsetvaiiotu on the Bostoi Port-Bill, &c.p. 78
b the late J. guincy, juu.
TRZA9TTRT DEPARTMENT,
Just 27, 1798.
IS HEREBY GIVEN, That by vir-
X\ tue of an ait. palTrdduring the prsfent ses
sion if Conjrrefn, so much of the aft entituled
" An A a making further provision for the l'up
" port cf public credit, aud for the redemption
"of the public debt"— puffed the third day of
March, one thousand seven hundred and nicety
five, as bars from settlement or allowance,
1 Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
final settlement Certificates, and Indents of ln
ferefle, is suspended umil the twelfth day o
June, which will be In the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety nin^.
That on tie liquidation and settlement of the
. said Certificates, and Indents of Intcrelt, at the
, 1 reafury, the Creditors will be entitled to receive -
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stockequal
, to the amount ol the said liidenti, and the arrear
ages ot interest due un their said Certificates, prior
to the firfl day of Januarr one thousand Uvea
| hundred and ninety one.
That the principal fumsof the said Loan Office
and final settlement Certificates, with the interest.
thuron, lii:cc the firft day ol January, one thou-'
■ sand seven hundred and ninety one, will be dif
-1 charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
paynunt of interest and reimburffcment of prin.l-
I pal, equal to the fun:.* which would have been '
, payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been
1 fubferihed, pursuant to the Ads making provision,
, for the debts of the United States, coiitradled dur*
irtg the late war, and by the payment of other
sums, equal to the market of the remaining-
Stock, which would have been created by such
fublcriptions asaforejaid, which market value will
, be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
I SecrtLary £/ tbe Treasury
i' !re 18 lams
HEALTH OFFICE.
• PbilaJrlfl/ia, \JI M/y, 1795.
Ewraift of an aft to alter and amend the Health
Laws of this Commonwealth, palfed 41k April
1798.
Seft. 8- A '' rurjf " e '' e nafted by the au"
X\. thority alorefaid. That every house«.
keeper within the city of Philadelphia, the town.,
(hips of the Northern Liberties an 1 Moyanivrvfliig fc
and difirift of Southwark, within a mils of the )i
---mitsof the city, taking hi boarders arriving Uy sea.
or by laed, from any :orcigi. port or place,"and ha-,
vingany ha:.rd»f inhisor her family, whofhall be
taken lick o iiy dif afe whatsoever, between the
firltdayol nT'-.y aud tbe firft day of November in
any year, wirliin twenty days next after such boar
der fl;all come tu lodge in his or her house, fiiail
v/ithin 14 hours next .after tiie knowledge of such.
fickn.fc. make report at the Health-Office of the
. name of such Tick person, the time of his or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being talvri flick,
and of the name and pl?cc of abode of luch house-
I keep r; whereupon the Pliylffiaß of the Health-
Office (hall forthwith visit the patient, and report
J to the office his opinion of rhe nature of such dif
r cafe, that meafurcs may be,taken to prevent the
spreading of tho infeftion ; and if any houfekceper
* Shall neglcft to give information in tbe mannerand
within the time aforefaid, and (hall be thereof con
r vifted, in any court of criminal jurisdiftion witliin
this Commonwealth, uponindiftmect by verdift
or confefiion, he or she (hall forfeit and pay a fine
co the use of the said hofpitll, not less than twenty
dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
f impofsd at the discretion of the court, according to
the circumstances of greater or less aggravation at>»
tending each particular cafc.
By order of the Board of Health,
WM. ALLEN, Health Officer,
tawjia of the pott of Philadelphia.