fIUMBSX 1869. J
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
BOSTON, September 7,
t£OM CADIZ.
Capt. Plumber from Cadiz failed July 30
has obligingly (hewn to tis a copy of a
letter which was written by a refpeftable
merchant at Carthagena, to his
dent at the former place, and received Ju
ly 28, it (lates, " I hear the general of
Marine h 3 received dispatches from the
captain genetal of Valencia, announcing
that a vcflel had arrired there with newß,
that the English fleet had overtaken the j
Grand French Armada, a short distance :
from Malta, end that when this vessel part- ;
ed an engagement had just commented.''
It wai understood at Cadiz, that the pro
ceedings at Rafladt were not conciliatory.
The Prussian Envoy is much disgusted with
French manners, and he has indicated the
appioach of coufcqiiences not peaceful.—
The Imperial ambassador holds the fame o
'pinion.
After capt. Plumber Came out of Cadiz,
!he went on board Lord St. Vincent's ifhip
was "well treated, and informed that the ad
miral had received advice from Don Maffe
rado, that admiral Nellon had defeated the j
Toulon fleet and taken nine fail of the line,
and that the frigate captured by the Sea
JJorfe had on board tli? plunder of Malta,
(Yhe then lay in fight) and that 50 French
men were destroyed in boarding the Sea
Horse.
Advice of every Irarifadtion almost to the
adjournment of Congress, was publtflied in
London as early as the 17th of Jtllv, and
Triuft soon afterwards have reacheil France.
Our next arrival may bring us accounts of
their effedt iri that mif-na.med JFtepublic.
The FE rs n.
The Sele&mcn date, that fram Septem
ber 3 to 5, there were three deaths only.
Remain d sick twenty, four of whom were
on the recovery.
Yesterday we heard of two new cases.
NEW-YORK, September 11,
Number of Burials, in this city, for the
24 hours ending Sunday evening—Adults,
25 —Children, 7. Twenty three of the
above of the prevailing fever.
The GeneraHffimo of the Irish insurgents
is a person of the name of'Kew.
Amongd the leaders of the Iri(h>ebels,
Mifs Redmond is said to head those of
Wexford. She is reported to be ever where
the battle is mod violent; frrquently on
horseback, and generally to ride a hunter.
«. By a fifherrrif n who ca.tie r rom the HnoTc
yesterday mwrnifig, we learn that he saw a
large (hip of war Handing in from sea.
Loss as the brig Dolly, of N. Tori.
The brig Dolly, capt. Andrew SSmpfon,
from Jamaica bound to N. York Was upset
on the night of the 7th Sept. by£a sudden
jjuft of wind, in lat. 38 10, long. 73
Capt. Simpfbn and his crew ?.ft#r being at
sea for 35 hours in a leaky boat, they were
fortunate enough to fall with the sloop
Aurora, from N. Providence bound to this
port, where they arrived yesterday.
Ship Hope Dovan, from Trinidad to
the Havanna, is taken into N. Providence.
ExtraS of a letter from Alge%iras, dated
July 6.
As to the cafe of onr own (hip (Hunter)
I cannot inform you, we have been in daily
expedition of getting clear; but now, af
ter being detained near four month 1 , and
cleared by the tribunal of Spain, and by the
French consul at padiz, that fame cmful
yesterday took our fails on (hore, and is af
ter getting our rudder unhung. The ocily
talk is about war between France and
America, and whete it will end, God
knows !
Latest Foreign News—coniitiued.
FLORENCE, June 1.
The Roman consuls and French com
missaries and generals at Rome, have con
sented to the Pope's remaining in Tufcany ;
but they have desired that his royal high
ness wou'd remove Jiim to some part of the
Grand Duchy more distant from the con
fines of the Roman Republic: in confe
.quence of which, his royal highness invited
his holfnefs to take up his abode at the
.carthutfian convent, distant only two miles
from his metropolis, where his holiness ar
rived yesterday evening in tolerable good
and was received with all the atten
tion and refpeft due to his rank and cha
radter, by his royal highness' special orders,
who Cent offers of every thi.'g that could be
ferviceablc and magnificent s .for his holinefs's
accommodations.
The Pope would have arrived at this con
vent some days sooner, had he not been
obliged to fly to Sienna, and take refuge in
a noblrman's coun'ry house, near this city
in consequence of a dreadful earthquake
which took place there on the 25th ult.
which threw down a considerable part of
the convert in which his holiness resided.
The earthquake has Heen attended with
fatal confequeiictß, and has been continued
by repeated (hocks, and trembling of the
earth; and even yesterday the earth was
oceafiona ly perceived to move.
Some lives have been loft, and a great
number of the inhabitants maimed, and
there is not a house in the whole city
which has not fuffered more or less, and
some are actually levelled with the ground.
PHILADELPHIA
The town is entirely def rted. Those
who have not country houses to retire to
have made temporary t'en-ts and coverings in
the adjacent fields, to which they are retir
ed. Even trials is said in a public garden
adjoining to the city. -'
ITALY, JutfE 1.
The Milan Gaiette contains a report,
that a new inftirredio* has broken out at
Rome, after the departure of the French
troops.
At Genoa an infurrediion of the popu
lace is greatly apprehended. The mal
contents (hout publicly " Live St. Mary-
Death to the Patriots." Several
have been arrested at Genoa.
Tranquility is again restored in the vici
nity of Perugia. The palace of the knights
of Malta at Rome, has been seized, ar.d
their effe&a fold for the benefit of the French
republic.
• .'
MUNICH, June 5.
TRe Nuncio of the Holy See resident
here, has received we learn the following
intelligence:
" The Fernch general St. Cyr, who com
mands at Rome, wrote some time since to
the Grand Duke of Tufcany,-that as the
troubles which had broken intf Italy>
and principally at Pel ugh, had been occa
sioned by the Pope, he prayed his highness
to take such meafurts as should prevent his
holinvfs from making 33-y longer day within
his territories. The Grand Duke having
declined, it is said, to take any ftcpi in
eonfequence- of this demand, the general
sent him a second letter, the contents of
which resembled a declaration'of war. Soihn
after a detachment of French troops entered
Siena, seized the person of the sovereign
Pontiff, as well as several cardinals an i con
veyed them to Leghorn, where a flotilla was
ready to receive them, which immediately
set fail for Cagliari in Sardinia,
GENOA, June 8.
War between our republic and-the K : ng :
of Sardinia is now nearly declared. It is
kngwn that a (hort time since, about 500 Pi
edmontefe rebels seized the townof Carofio,
which is entirely surrounded by our terri
tory. The king of Sardinia after some fruit,
less application to onr government, for a
passage for his troops, thought proper to
order 4000 men to march thro' the Liguri
an republic and attack the town. The re
bels immediately evacuated Carofio, which
was taken poffefiion of by the Sardinian
troops. Shortly after a battle took place on
tfie Ligurian territory, nearGavi, the com'
mandant of which town fired on the con
tending parties. The flrirmifhing continu
ed two days longer, without any decisive
advantage on either fide. The loss of the
Royal troops in killed and wounded was
much greater than that of the rebels. This
inroad into the territory of the Republic
caused the great council to come to the fol
lowing refoiutions.
ill. That the diredtory (hould take such
meafurts as (hoflld render the Ligurian ter
ritory refpeded.
ad. That all Ligurian citizens (hould re
ceive notice of the present situation of the
Republic with refpedi to the court of Turin.
3d. That 500,000 livres should be as
signed to the dire&ory to enable it to take
such measures as would repel any hostile at
tack of the Piedmontefe troops.
I he frontiers of the Republic have been
in eonfequence occupied by the troops of
the line, volunteers and artillery, and a pro
clamation publi(hed, addressed to the citi
zens" of the Republic. We are very defir
«us to know how the French will adt in eon
fequence of this affair.
It is said that 7000 Freflch troops have
already marched to Aleffiiudria and Novi,
to watch the motions of our troops, and
those of Sardinia.
Another letter, fame date.
Yesterday and to-day several corps of
troops marched for the Piedmontefe fron
tiers. Our patriots flatter, tbemfelves that
they will soon return crowned with laurels,
after having dethroned the king of Sardinia ;
though this latter event is certainly much to
be doubted. Some obfeived, that the
French Republic has promised the king of
Sardinia an enlargement of his dominions,
and that he is the ally of France. They
likewise remind us that it was not long since
reported, that the French Republic would
extend its boundaries to Savona, and even
to Genoa. But on the other fide, our di
reftory appears to have a tied in concert
with the agents of France.
It is said that a battle has already taken
place between our tro6p& and those of the
king of Sardinia.
LONDON July 16.
ADMIRALTY OFFICE, July 14, '9B.
Couy of a letter from the right honourable lord
Bridport, K.B. to Evan Nepean, efqr. dated
on board the Royal George at sea, July it,
1798-
The inclofijd copies of letters will in
form their lordlhips of the taking La Seine,
and the loss of his majesty's (hip La Pique.
On both these events I can add nothing
more than to express my fatisfadiion on this
important capture, and real concern for the
accidents that have attended it. Captain
Milne, with all hia officers and people are
on board La Seine.
I am, &c. BRIDPORT.
Jafnn Pertil us Rreton, July 25,1798.
My Lordsj
On Friday lait, at seven A. M. his ma-
' .
John Fenno, N° ii 9 Che [nut Street.
By
WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 12, 1798.
jelly's squadron under my command, con
lifting of the (hips named in the margin-)-,
gave chace to a Frigate of the Saintes, at
eleven at night. The Pique, brou-ht her
to adtinn and continued a running fight, till
the Jason pasTed between the two. At this
inftantthe land near the Point de !a Treuche,
was seen close on our larboured bow, and
before the (hip could aniwer her helm, (he
took the ground close to the enemy, which
we immediately perceived had grounded
also, mod unfortunately, as the"tide rose we
hung only forwards, and therefore fwtwg
with our (tera close to the enemy's broad
side, who, although he was dismasted, did
not fail td take advantage of his happy po
sition; but a well directed fire was kept up
from a fe>.v guns aba f t-, and at half past two
(he ft ruck Our opponent, called La Seine,
was commanded by e capitaine Brej-rt. her
force 42 guns, eighteen and nine pounders,
with cannonades, and 610 men including
troops, she failed from L'lfle de France
three months ago bound to L'Oorent.
IjP the early part of the battle, I had the
mortification to be wounded, and wa9 oblig
ed to leave the deck; but my misfortune is
palliated by the refledlion that the ferviee
did rot fuffer by my absence, for no man
could have filled my place with more credit
te-fcimfclf, and benefit td the State than my
firft lieutenant, Mr. Charles Inglfs; wham
I beg to recommend in the (Ironggft man
ner for his bravery, (kill, and great ex
ertions.
I come now, my lord, to the painful part
ef my narrative, which I am neceffiated to
make more prolix than I otherwise should,
from the peculiar circumstances attending
the engagement; and I firfl mention the
loss. »f the Pique, whose officers and crew
deferred a better fate. Captain Milne had
led her to fight in an officer like manner, but
it wai his misfortune that the main top
mad being carried away, he was obliged to
drop a stern. Ardour urged him on to re
new the combat, he did not hear me hail
him to anchor, and the (hip therefore
grounded on cur off fide, near enough to
receive the enemy's fhrtt over 11s, although
very aukwardly fituattd for returning the
fire. In the morning every attempt was <
made to get the (hip off, but the Jason was j
alone fuccefsful I therefore, on si ding '
the Pique was bilged, dire&ed the captain ]
to destroy her, and to exert bis abilities and |
adlivity to save prize; which he with
great difficulty got afloa: yesterday evening,
after throwing her guns, &c. overboard-
The carnage on board La Seine was very
great; 170 men were killed, and about 100
wounded, many of tjiem mortally. I !h
---clofe a lift of the fnfferers on board the Ja
son ; and it is with great concern that among
the killed I place the name of Mr. Anthony
Richard Robot'er, my second Lieutenant,
who died fighting glorioully, and by whole :
fall is loft a mod amiable man and excellent
officer. Lieutenant Riboleau commanded
on the main deck afterwards, and behaved
with great spirit, as did Mr. Lock wood,
the Mailer, and lieutenant Symes of the
Marines ; my other officers of eveiy descrip
tion behaved vastly weil, and the bravery
and excellent copdudt of the crew deserve
much praise.
The Pique was exceedingly (hattered in
her rigging, and tfie Jason has not one mad
or y*rd but 4 what is much damaged, nor a
(hroud nor rope but what is cut, with all
the fails torn to pieces. If our ship cpuld
have remained in hrr fiift position, or our
companion could have occupied the situation
he widied, the bufnicfs mud have been
soOner finifhed, withou so much injury be
ing done aloft. It is but judice to observe
that every effort was made on board the
Mermaid, during our long chace, to ap
proach the enemy, and I feel much indebted
to Captain Newman for having this (hip off,
as that was the only possible means to favc
her. So soon as we were afloat, the squa
dron under Captain Stopford wa6 fcen in the
offing, and being called in by signal, was of
infinite ferviee.
I have the honr;rto"be See.
CHARLES STIRLING.
[Killc 1 , fird Lt. 1 corp. mar. 5 learaen ;
and 12 wounded.]
t Jason, Pique and Mtrmaidi
VIENNA, June 6. ,
In the course of the preceding week a
courier arrived here from Berlin, whose dis
patches contain some new conventions bet
ween the courts of Audria and Prussia, re
lative to important objedls. They appear
to be very faiisfadtory to our ministry.
Transports of artillery, ammunition and
field requisites of every kind dill continue
to be sent to Italy, tho' not in such quan
tities as some werks fiqee. * Sixty pieces of
heavy artillsry have been sent. The Aus
trian frontier places h»ve been put in the bed
date of defence.
BALTIMORE, Sept. 10.
The Constitution frigate, capt. Nichol
fon, was ftioke on the 3rd ult by the
ti(h (hip Hope, arrived ou Friday last, in
lat. 39,48, long. 73, 47, all well.
The Conllellation. capt. Truxton, and
Baltimore, capt. Phillips, were lying in
Hampton roads on Monday evening last.
CHARLESTON, Aug. 30.
The (hip Thomas, Brown, of Plu'ladil*
phia, 24 days from St. Bartholomews, an
chored last evening at Fort Johnson.
The schooner Massachusetts, and brig
Harriet, mentioned in ytfttrday's paper a
mongst the arrivals from the Havanna, were
not amongl the vefTcls which arrived; the
Massachusetts did.not fail with the Beet.
' - ■ . Au & 3 1 ■
\efterday arrived the schooner Harriot,
Lawfon, New-York, 17 days ; sloop Hope
ftill, Bent, Ntw York, 2jjdays | (hip Ret
becca, Ruflell, Malaga, 70days,; schooner
Lovely Lass, Sweetzer, Philadelphia, ig
days ; (hip Thomas, Brown, St. Bartholo
mews, 25 days
The following information was given to
Capt. Doane, by the gentleman who adts
as American ccnful at the Havanna. Two
days before he failed, a French sloop, a pri
vateer, arrived at the Havanna, from a criiife,
having on board fourteen American Tailors,
which the captain detained on as pri.
foners ; as soon as the consul was informed
of it, he made application to the Governor
of the Havanna, to have them released ; his
answer was, that he could not interfere in
the affair, as he had no inftrudlions on the
fubjedt. These men were detained on board
ef the sloop, when Capt. Doane left the
Havanna.*
Xfie (Etesctte,
P HIL AD E L PHIA ,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER i».
DIED—In the township of Blockley,
yesterday, after a lingering indisposition,
Mrs. Hamilton, relidt of the late An
drew Hamilton, Esq. of Third street.
Wood, merchant, No. 8, North Secorid
ftreet.
of the present epidemic, Anthony Tay
lor, of the house of Tay.lor and Newbold
of this city,
-—James Sterling, jnn. eldest son
of James Sterling, Esq. of Burlington.
year of hisage, Mr. Hasencleyer Shal
lus.
disorder, Miss Kitty Dally, daughter
of the late Gifford Dally, Esq. jof this city.
the feat of Samuel Breck, Esq. his daugh
ter, Miss Lucy Brsck ; also, Miss Bet
sey Wescott, of this city.
ter an illness of 5 days, Mr.George E
vans, of this city.
—, —. At New York, of the prevailing
epidemic, John Anderson, E£q. attor-1
ney at law, in the 23d year of his age ; !
also, Mr. Samuel Anderson, jun. only
son of Mr. Samuel Anderfnn of this city,
—, At New London, of a malignant
fever now prevailing there, the Hon. Josh
ua Coit, Esq. one of the Representa
tives in Congress, from the state of Co«-
nedlicut.
DONATIONS,
Received at tie Tents near SciuyU'dl, far the ■
use of the Poor.
Sept. 11. Ca(h, one hundred dollars,
from Mr. Franklin Davenport, in behalf of
the inhabhants of Weftberry, New Jersey,
and delivered by Maj. Weftcon.
One fhailop load of draw, near fix hun
dred bundles, from Mr. Peter Crim. Tim
ber Creek, delivered by Mctfrs. Johnson
and Fcrren.
Fifiy loaves bread, from Mr. Ifa*c War
ren, Strawberry street, being his second
donation.
A half acre potatoes from Mr. Samuel
Brooks. * j
1 bag onions, 3 do. apples, I do. beets,
and 15 bushels potatoes, from Mr. John
Garrett, in the i.eck.
8 bushels potatoes, *nd do. onions,
from Mr. Wm. Hufton, near Bristol
25 bulhels potatoes, from 3 person un
known.
1 large cart load potatoes, from Mr.
Ru(h. in the Neck, by Nicholas Pickel
Also, one cart loadpotatoes and ■ apples,
from Meflrs. Samuel Baker, Meyera and
Kucher.
By ordtrof .the Committee.
PETER MIERCKEN,
Sept. 12 Chairman
DONATIONS,
Received at the encampment at Mailer's
place, for the use of the poor.
Sept. 11. From Frederick Augustus Muh
lcnburg, Esq. a bbl. molafles, a quantity
of cabbage, onions and refl beets.
John Jnskeep, 1
Jona. Robeson, V Committe.
Isaac W, Morris, J
New Encampment.
The Committee who (uperinfend the en
campment at Mailer's place near the Mill
Pond on the Germantown Road, about
two miles from the city, refpedtfully inform
their country friends that they (land in need
of an immediate supply of vegetables and
draw forth use of those dillreffed citizens
who are flying from the present calamity.
The committee flatter themselves that the
fame liberality will be found in the former,
and others, to supply. this Encampment, as
hasbeen to ; hat on the Commons near Schuyl
kill, both having the fame laudable objeft
in view.
John In fif'jt ~l
Jen. Robefon >- committee.
If lac IV. Morris. J
Camp, Malters' Place,
September to, '9B,
CITY HOSPITAL REPORTi
sOU tSPTFMB F. K 11.
ADMITTED) t
, Jane MoTs Capt. Singleton
Jpfepb KirrJJ Martha Kentfmge^
Peggy Ifioirr Alex. K^erc
Abraham K f Joseph Ka«
Judith Moss Bttfcy Cook
Duncan O'Connor Mary B;nnet
John Bowie Thoj. French
Cathar'ne Kt-rr.
0 DIED.
A D ne, unknown Ann M'Hughia
Wm Lawrence Sa ly Rofs
Elizabeth iioby James Toy
Joseph Ki g Rebecca Peak
Betsey M'Laughljn jauies Jyerr.
Remaining in the Hospital 122, of whom
3J are on the recovery.
Interred in the Hospital Ground;
FrOm City Hospital id
City an<J Liberties 26
Total 36
PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
Christopher Darrah, Steward.
By order of 'he Board of Managers.
WiL-LIAM JONES, President.'
Atteft—Timotht Paxson, Clerk.
ONE HUNDRED and FIVE new ca
ses of the prevailing f:ver, reportedjjby 18
Physicians, for tf)e last 24 hours.
03" BURIALS in the City and Hoff)?-
tal burying grounds, for the i4h-'uis, end
ing yesterday at nocm—-Adults, 61— Cliil
dren, 12.
City-Hospital, Sept. 6, 1795.
A good Cook and faithful Nuries will
find immediate employ and generous'wage*
by applying to
CHRISTOPHER DARRAH,
Steward of the City Hospital.
■ I "
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Newcnjile, Sept. id.
Arrived* Djys
Ship South Carolina, Garman, Char
leston, y
Margaretta, Folger, La Guira, 21
Sloop Pfgpy, Hocfbroiigh, Havaana,
The Margaretta left at La Guira the brig
Maryland, Roxborough, for Baltimore, to
fail in ten days.
The brig Maria, Sb rer, failed from
Charleston in company with capt. Garman
—left there the fcho ntr Lovely Lass,
Sweetfer, to fail for Phihdelphia in 4 day 3.
The packet Maria, capt. Pryor, left this
place yesterday at noon with the mail for
Charleston.
Pursuant to the Ad of Congress, pas
sed on the ninth day of July, 1798, entirled
« An Aa to provider the valuation of lands
and dwelling houfcs ard the enumeration nf
{lives within the United States," —NOTICE
i» hereby given, that the firll meeting of ihe
Commissioners under the said Ail, far theftate
of Pennfylvani.i f will be held on Monday, the
twenty second day of Oilober n-xf,' at the bo
rough of Reading, in the fald slate.
C. READ,
Comtcifiioncr firll named,
Reading, Sept. 8, 1798.
To the Creditors of John JJickson,
of Milton, in (he Couity of Nor thumbei land,
and Slate of Pennfytvania.
Genti-EMKN , •
TAKE NO 1 ICE, that I have applied to the
Court of Common Pleas in ami f pr the County r,£
Northumberland for the benefit cf the feverat
laws mide for the relief of Ins I vent Debtors, and
that the court have appointed the lall Monday in
OAober next to hjar me and my creditors at the
said C ourt in the town ot .-uk: ury, at \vhich time
and place you are delirtrd to attend.
Milton '-nr. lOHN D'CKS ">N.
Guardians of the Poor.
AMiiE lINO of the General Board will bo
bcid at the Aims Houff 011 Mondpy nextg
the 17 th in (I. precjifeiy at 10 o'clock in the morn
ing.
PEfER MIERCKEN, President.
• septfmber ri
Remote Subscribers for this Ga
zette are reqtteftcd to forward pr. port,
the arrearages due from them relative
ly* Pcftmafters who may have receiv
ed fubferiptions are earnestly defirtd to
remit the lame. At this interesting and
diftreifing crisis, attention to this notice
will peculiarly oblige the Editor.
FLOUR FOR SALE 1 "
By the Subfcribfrs,
DeJivcrable at any of the ports on the Dela.
ware—who have also on hand at their ftcres, a
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Utters by
the post will be attended tp.
Levi Ho'lingswortb Iff Son.
_auguft »B._ dtf
" FOR SALE"?
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Monteith Matter, from Laguira,
consisting or
945 Fenegas of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora Indigo
alO Bales of Cotton
4 Package*of Goat Skms
By IVillings & Francis.
No. Eleventh ilrect.
j u 'y dtf
for sale, ~~—
A FARM on the road leading to State Island,
within four and an nail miles of Phtlsdelphia,
containing 45 acres in the highl it Hate of cultiwtiio
—BS acres ot which is meadow, the remainder up*
land. I here areon the prcmifei, a new frame Houla
and Barn, w:th w exccl'ent kilcf.cn garden, contain
ing a great number of frit Trees.—lmmediate po.Tct
(ion will be given.
For ter.m apply to
, Thomas W. Francis,
No. 98 South Third tlrceti
July iß<
XIV.NO R Ti<L'MBHKLAND, Sept, ljl.
Tb ilx P~itiifrsi.
Sir,
T beg leave, throtiirh the channel of your
paper, to give what fatisf ttioti I can ta
i many perfor.s in this country, who are
alarmed at the publication of ah intercept
ed letter to me by Mr. J Stone
at Paris, anl incTofv g an othei - Which I was
to trsuifnu't to M. B. P (which meais a
Member of the Britijh Parlianient) at Ken
■ebeck. They were firft p'rinted in E'rg
land, with a view to rinder me obnoxious
here. Whether they ought to have this
effeft, let any impartial person judge from
tbe -following circumstance*.
Mr. John Stone (not the person who wfts
tried for high treason, and ?.cquitted, in
England, hut his brother) was a member ol
my congregation at a*d a zea
lous friend of the American and French
rev.'lutio s, which fufficiently accounts sot
bis corresponding with me. B"t lam not
anfwerahle for what he, or any other perfoa,
may think proper to write.to me.
The letter inclosed to me is for Mr.
Benjamin Vaughan, formerly a pupil ol
' mine, and son to Mr. Samuel V*nghan,
who fiimetirfic 'tfgo.refiried in Philadelphia,
He, like rr.e, thought it neceflary to have
England, and si r si.m time is said to have
afTumed a fug-ned name.' This he doeillot
da si-re, and he u! a man that any ceuritry
may.be proud to po fiefs; having for ability,
knowledge of af.riolt eveiy kind, and the
molt approved integrity, very few eqjuals.
He is w II known to, and probably corres
ponds with, the Prcfulent, who will -fmils
at the form fes that have been thrown; out
on the fubje£t. .He has' fixed his r< fidjence
at Kenneb ck ,b<*i .;ufe his family has! targe
property there. If he or I nad beem a spy
in the rmereft of France, we have tnxie a
very 11 range choice of situations in which to
do mifchief.
—— Pet trifies liuht 3« ajr,
Arc to the jealous confirmations itro.ng,
As proofs of holy writ. ———
SlaL:fp?ar<:.
I am, &c.
JOSEPH PRIESTLEY.
i -U— A : 1 ' - -v ■ ... - ■ ... —LTs-
PsNNSTirjHIA, Jf-
In the Name and by the Authority of the Com
monwealth of Penflfyf-ania,
By I'HiIMAS MIFFLIN,
Goverr.Er of the saM Commonwealth,
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS, it has been stated to me by
the Prelidtnt and Dircftors of the Bank
of Pennfylvapia, That oil the r>ight of Satur
day the firft mi limit, the Hmife now occupied by
the fail Bank, commonly called Cirpenters
Hall, was burpisnotifly entered; by. f .me villain,
or villains unknown, ami there-rom a confider
ahlc numb r of Bank Notes of various deicrip
tiyns and denominatio.u wers stolen and carried
away; • o TH 1 imtent that the perpetrator,
or perpetrators of so great a crime and the
acccllariei-thefttO; maybec'ifc.ivered andhrought
to condign p:mi(hraent, J have deemed it expe
dient to i(T«« this Vroe'r.mation, hirhby offer
ing and pronvfinga reward of ONE THOU
SAND hr,Ui f \AS to any person, nrper/ons,
who {hall di!i over the perpetrator, or perpetra
tors of the said crime, or any of them, or any
accefiary thereto. before or after the fa<&, t'.> be
paid on the convi<Slion of all or any of the effen
drrs: AND I do fcerebj' further offer and pm
/nife A FREE AND tNTIRE ARDON
unto any one of the perpetrators, cr ac.ceflaries
aforefaid of the enmmifliem of the laid critltt,
who shall make a fall and fatisfafloi-y <iifck>fure
of all the eircumitances relative to thecontrivihg
and arcorr.p'ilhmg the fame, aad or the names
and p'aces of abode of his olr iR-r.afloiiates, lo
tliat such associates may be apprehended and
convicted: AND ail the judges, Justices, She
riffs, Constables, and other Public Officers ot
this Commonwealth (according to the duties t
their refpe<£liv» ftatiom) are hereby required and
enjoined to use all lawful mean 3 to detest and
brink to juttiee each and every person concerned
in contriving, or perpetrating the crime afore
faid. " i* :
GIVEN under my hand and the Grtat
S.-al of the State,at GermantOwn, t|Se
(L. S.) third rlay of September, in the year of.
our J.ord. one thousand feves hundred
and tiHitty-dight, and of the Common
wealth thW twenty-third.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
Ft the Governor:
A. J Dallas.
Secretary of ibs Commanivealtb.
HEALTH-OFFICE,
nth September, 1798.
FELLOW-CITI2.EKS, 'j
OUR. address of the id inft. was' in- j
tended t"> present to your view the deplora
ble date of our city, and to excite into ac
tive exertion the philai threpy and benevo
lence so eminently charafteriftic of the citi
zens of Pernfylvanta. The fame generous
sentiments which you have difplaytd has in
fluenced the worthy and benevolent citizens
of Bait more ; who always alive ta the feel
ings of hurnanity, have, it app ars by the
public papers, agreed to a fubfeription for
the relief of our distressed fellow citizeni.
We return them all the gratituue and ref
peft to which difpofttions so amiable are
entitled but it becomes our duty public
ly to state that a fund has been provided for
the purpose, upon the principal of a loan
in anticipation of the liberality ana justice
of our Legislature, which precludes the
necefEty of donations is money from the
humane citizens of our 'filter ftatcs.—Con
tributions of provisions fro ti our fellow-ci
tizens in the country, as well in New Jersey
as in our own State, have been forwarded
for the use of the distressed. with a liberali
ty which dopsbpnorto tiie donors.
We flatter that fimibsr donations
v.'tjl be continued by those generous indivi
duals, who are contiguous to the city, and
with convenience spare a part of their
produce for the relief of fufFer'ng humanity,.
By order of the Board of Managers.
Wm. JONES, Preiident.
Attefl
Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
Agreeable to notification in fcveral of the
newspapers of the City of Philadelphia, ft- i
quelling a meeting of the merchants, trad
* 1 fra, mechanics ZBd other at the
Upton o.wl . julc in Gcrmantown, on
Wednjfday 29th Attguft« at 4 o'clock P.
M. in order to fix ou a suitable character to
be nffered at the ensuing elettiou to repre
lr sent the City of Philadelphia in Congress,
0 Jn the vacancy occafloned by the decease of
e Ji»hn Swaiiwick, Esq. and aifo in the next
l " Congress—A senator, to represent in the
,e state senate, the city of Philadelphia and
5S County of Delaware—and fix persons to re
a present he city in thehuufe of assembly.
®" A numerous and refp.-dable body of the
freemen of'.be city attenoed. The btifi-
J . 3 ; ness of ;the me-riing being opened, a letter
13 1 from captain Jof:ph ncrjony, addrelTed to
m j the chairroa .' of the meeting was read, ex
i prefling a decided opinion >n the necessity
?of urfiting tbt interest of the frie.ids of the
. conftituttop and government in the ctioice
jt ; of their representative.that hecoi ceiv.-d Mt
s " j Robert Wain well qualified for a fat in
Congress, and folicitiug his fellow citizens
)r that his name may n>,t be offered in compt
'c tition with that ge. tleman, who has his ful
*» concurrence and approbation.
I , ROBER.TWALN,
r " was nominated and unaiijmoufly carried as
the Csrnd'dite fqrC.Jug ess
% FRANCIS GURNEY,
a -' as ft.-te Senator for the dillriot compoled o r
,e the Cfty and County .of Philad lphra and
,e County of and as :neJibers tore-
preknt th.e City in aIT mbly—
J .• < Jacob Hillvkeimer,
'* ' ' Latwente ' eclel,
e jindrevo Fajlfrd,
William Hall, printer.
Savue! IV. Fijher,
f John Clement Stacker.
IC Tba queitjon being-put, meeting
:e support the fortgoipg ticket ? it was unani
•e moufly agreed to, nfld. it- was alft> reeom-
J mended to th, freemen of the City of Phi
# | ladelphia attached to ttje federal government
0 for their fupjiort, and to tiiofe cf the Couu
ty of Philadelphia and County of Delaware
inTupport of.tiv Sen?, or.
Ordered, fhat tKe minotes of the meeting,
signed hy the chapman a.id secretary, be
publilhrd in the nev. fpapers'of the City, for
the information of-the elfftots.
£EVI HOLLI." GSWORTH,
Chairman.
Daniel Smith, Secretary.
Germantotun, 29th Augujl, 1798.
At a meeting of a number of Citizens of
the Northern Liberties, at the houle of
Mt. Samuel Gano, sign of President Adams,
y on Wednesday evening, the22d ofAuguft,
< 1798
- Mr. JAMES SIVJIN, in the Chair, and
V Mr. Andrew Shuster, Secretary.
, The Committee appointed on the firft in
• report, that t ( iey have had a
conference with the several deputations from
the meeti gs of the diilritft of Southwark,
1 Germantown and Baftlet wn—and taking
t into consideration the critical iituation of our
- cou 1 try, at present, it was
Re/vlved unanimoujly. That from our
knowledge of the frveral candidates, and
' their being attached to he Federal govern
merit and the.known ;jatriotifm, integrity
. and abilities ot the following, gentlemen, we
- beg leave to recommend them to our fellow
- citizens, as luitable persons for their support
f at the enluing elcftion.
5 Senator.- FRANCIS GURNFY,
J For the Ditlridt composed of the city.
, and cougty of Philadelphia and county of
J Delaware
1 I Repreferttative in Congrefi,
1 THOB MIFFLIN,
' For the county of Philadelphia; and
f For Representatives in the 'Jfcmbly for the
j County of Philadelphia,
1 Richard Tittermary, Samuel Wheeler,
| Charles Swift, Thomas Forreft,
Frederick Augustus Thomas Paul.
Mughle^butg,
Publilhtd by order of the meeting,
r, I"AM£6 SWAIM» Chairman.
1 Andrew Sliufter, Secretary.
Gcrmantown, September ijl, 1798.
Mr. Fenno,
Please to publish th* 1 following t.ckets
for SeleQ: and Common Councils, at the ap
proaehing ekftiopj, and oblige one of y *ur
fellow,citizens.
SELECT COUNCIL.
Godfrey Hag? Thomas Willing, jun.
Daniel Smith Tofeph Magoffin.
COMMON COUNCIL.
' .Lawrence Herbert
1 Henry Drinker, jun.,
Gideon H. Wells
Caiper W. Manris
Thomas P. Cope
George I'canock
Thomaa Parker
Michael Kepple
Tofeph Hopkinfon
Ktarney Wharton
Conrad Gerhard
Geurge Fa*
John Rugaa
Edward Randolph
t Malcolm M'Don naid
Jofrph North j^Union-ftreet)
Levi Hollingfworth
George Willing
EdwardPeoningtou
Jonathan Jones.
IJuft Reeeived and for sale by
WIL L lAM rOUNC,
, Corner of Second and Chcfnut Street —and at the
Ofliceof the Hd':tor,priae 1 i6ths of a dollar,
AN ORATION,
Spoken at Hartford, on the Hnniverfary of lade
pendence, July 4, 1-98.
By THEODORE DWIGHT.
For Sale,
THEtimeofan indented NEGRO MAN,
Who is an excelhnt Cook, kas about eight
years to serve! A L S O,
The time of an Indented Aegro Boy,
is a good Houfc Servant, and has about
nine years to serve, they are both perfectly hon
est and sober—— For tcrmi apply to No. 16&
' South Front-ftrect.
auguft 7 (tawtf
MM )
j For Sale.
' 'T'HE Sußscni/iER, intending to decline
j X DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, thi;
I whole Stock of
I Drugs and Medicines, Inftrumcnts, &£.
' The (hop is elegant, commodious and iuftici
!ently knnvn for the exteniive business ; one in the
wholefaV and retail line ; the situation b>juul to
Inirv i»tiieeiry, being at the cm ner ot Waliiut and
Second ftrct*. The whole, or any par', of the
Stflck, wUI be fold, as will belt suit the purchaser.
' Tha terms may be known, by applying to
james moore, jun.
IVko has For Sale,
Well calculated for the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r rl'rtiarkft&ly.
ftont, of an easy draught of water, r in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and incosv.ilete order forthe !u*ib-r":H'.fincis
All peif' i s" indebted to the late fi.mof
GMllnvait £3* Baldwin, IV. 3 GvlMbzuait, OUJ
ibinait IS* AToorj, or the ful.fcriVr, are earnestly
ncquefted to make jpeedy payment to
james moore, jon.
3 §
Ship If Insurance Broker,
THE Suhfe.-iber, encouraged by the advice
of Ui»friends, offers his l'ervice to the pub
lic u a Ship and Insurance Broker. H« pro
poses to buy .nd fell vtlTeU and every thing re
lating thereto —aflitt n> aitgrs of. vefleis and others
in enttrini; and clearing at the Custom IJoufe,
procur:ng and flipping freight, fettling Infui
aoceand all other merva utile accounts, and have
on hand the nereffiry Blanks ind Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and
information given in general mercantile matters
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch ot b.ifin-la he hopes to be ufe
ful to thpfe who please to favor him wi h th»ir
csramands. S AMUF.L ■ F.MERT.
Philadelphia, »4tii, 1 j
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS James Comminq {tf Co, late ef
the cjty of Philadelphia, m*rthants, have
alligiied over all their efte&s, real, perfoval and
'nixed, to the iuiif ribers, for the benefit of all
their creditor?, who f*- all iubferibe the laid affigtl
ment within fix months from the date hereof.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to al . ..Tons
who are indebted t<j the said estate, that they are
required to Make immediate payment of their rtf
pcilive accoums, to the AlTignees, at their office,
No. 62. Dotk ilreet, in failure whereof anions
will be iuflitsted for the recovery of Inch debts as
are not discharge J accordingly.
John Travis, "1
John It aldington, I Affignees>
Ji mes Taylor, I a
Cornelius Coinegys J
august 18 mwfttD
Territory of the Vniiea States north-west of the
River Ohio.
Washington County, fl".
XT.PHEREAS a Writ o( Attachment hathil ■
VV fucd,out of the court of Common Pleas
in said county, dire&ed tp the Sheriff of said /
coariy, returnable to June term 1797, at the
suit of Gi ifft.n Greene, esq. aglinft the Gpods
and Chattels, Lands, Tenements, Effects, Rights
arjtl Credits of nfa Rarret, f r Seventy Dollarsi
And <whereas, the said Sheriff hath by virtue of
said Writ attached a Lot of Land lyiag in said
county, containing one hundred acres, ;he pro
perty of the'ldefendant. NOTICk is therefore
given to the said Asa .Barret that ur.lefs he dotfc
appear arul give Special Bail to the A&ion,
Judgment will be. entered by Default, and the
land above-mentioned will be fold as tine law
direcls. Benjamin Ives Gilman,
Prcthonotary.
Marietta, July 30tb, 1798. iiwW
PETER BLIGHT
HAS removed his Counting House to his House
in the Worthcm Liberties near Town,
mantown road.
august ar. tf
Mr. LENI Z%
Teacher of the Piano Forte,
Respectfully offers his services to at
tend his leholars and others at Germautown
—lhould-as many as Twelve request his attend
!ance he will wait on them immediately.—Please
to diredl to the Primer of the Gazette of the
United States.
august 10 *iw
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt. an 4 Bank of United States
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Coustefs of Leicffter Packet, in the nth
month, 1797* which vessel has heen captured,
and the Certificates supposed to b« loft.
4000 dollars per cent. Stock, (landing on the
books of the Treafury,in the uanic of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th,'96.
Ten SharesStoqjt of the Bank of Uaitsd States
in the name of Mi!»;r, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 06067, dated the ill day
as January, 17Q 7.
Kor the renewal of which certificates, applica
tion is intended be niivie at the Office of the
Trcafiiryof the Uniteef States, and at ths Bank of
United States ; of which all pcrfons interested
therein, are desired to take notice.
JOHN WAREIER.
Philadelphia, 5 me. ;6, :}<)&. aav.-jm
NOW LANDING,
Ftom on board the brig A njiable Matilda, from
Boitrdeiiux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
88 cafIcsCLARET
7 a do. do of a fupcrior quality
a trunks green PARAfcOLS.
Thomas Murgatroyd,
N< Ti,'Wainut-llreex.
JTH.O HAS ON HAND,
White Wine in half CaSts "J
Sweet Oil of a (uperior quality,in I
boxes and balkets
Lunelle J f Entitled to
Sattfer»e I . Drawback.
Inlh Market > WINES in Cases I
Macarty and l I
Medoc J J
Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento in bags.
may 29. eotf
FOR S4LE. ~
A THREE Story Brick House, on the norrii
fide.,.<i£ near Second-llreet,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is incomple.it repair with back buildings,
confifiiug of a Piazza, Kitchen and a handsome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
thepremifes,a more particulardefcription iscon
fidered unnecessary.
The terms of payment will be one third cash,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CRAIG,
No. It Dock-Jlrcet.
may 16 ' $
Bank of fennfylv&nU.
THE Bank of Peonfylvania u removed to G'
mantown, —where the business will be traftfift:
to-morrow, in the Union School House.
JONATHAN SMITH, Caftier.
septepihcr 4 §
. N 0 T I C~£.
Bank of the United States,
September 4. 1798.
THE Public are,informed that after the 9th in
this Bank will be opened at 9 o'clock in the mori
ing, and so remain until noon.
G.SIMPSON, Caftier.
September 4. dtf
NOT I C E,
Bank of the United States,
siugujf 18, 1795.
perfoav who-have Noteso»- iBHU
X pay it,this Bank, are informed,
That regular Notices will be put under a Tea
ed cover dire Sled to 1 lie refpeilive payer ar
lodged in the Pofl Office every Monday uni
the return of the Citizens.
G. SIMPSON, cajhier.
angiift S
Pennsylvania Hospital,
9 1110. 1, 1798.
NO p?rfofl with an infectious difeaff, can 1
irta this house ; it is therefore ea
neftly recommended to th'c citizens, not to set
or * fuch patient to rhc gate, who is
with the prevailing fever. Several
been sent here improperly, is the rcafon
this caution*
FRANC,S HIGI7INS,Stnu
O T I C E.
Bank of North America,
Augujl 28th, I 798.
' PHOSK Pcrfotu who hi.ve Notesol Bills to f.
JL at this.Bank ire infornitd,
That will he put under a fea!<
cover dirrcitd to t'fe refpeflive payer and lo'g|!
in the Poft-OlSce every -Monday until the rttuj
of the ciiistss.
' v ' RICHARD WELLS, Cajhier.
aug. »9 drf
a?- The Inhabitants of the Cit
and County of Philadelphia are hereby notifii
that the REGISTERS OFFICE Tor the Probate
Wills, &c. for the said City and County, will
opened at the'houfe of Join Dover, at Fr»nkfui
the 4th of September intt. from sine till thr
o'clock, and 011 eve.ry Tuesday following, duru
tl>e prcfent prevailing fever in Philadelphia.
Gi.OßGfi CAMPBKLI.,
sepfembtr J r , eo;w
COLIjECTOK.'S OFFTCET"
PfIItAOPLPHIA, August 3c, J. 798.,
THE bufinef' of the Cyttom Houfe'wil l fro
tiais «*ay be traflfaaed at Cheller, during the co
tinuance of the fever which now prevails in U
city ; and in canfequcnce (hereof, the m-rchan
are heraby notified, that payment of a(l bonds si
duties to the United Stites, payable'at thisoffic
may be made either at the Cuftoiii House in Chs
ter, or at the Bank of the United States.
Collector's Office, {
Philadelphia, Aug. to. j
~R E k OVAL.
THE Office of rhe Secretary of the Commiffioi
ers stir carrying into effe<it the twenty firft Artie
of the Treaty of FriencKhip, Limits and Navig
tion, between His Catholic Majesty and the Uni
ed States of America, is for the prefeHt remov<
from No 54, South Second street, to a largo tvt
story brick house on the right hand going up tl
Girxnantown road, just above the Globe Mill, ufi
ally called Matters'* house, being a very airy ar
healthy iituation ; t,o wnith pexions having clain
to exhibit, or .enquiries t© make, may com,e <
fend wich the greatyft fafety. Letters, poll pai
Bills and Notes, tpbe noted or protested, and d
redions refpeiiing any kind of Notarial hufinei
inclosed sjnd left at the Post Office, will be du
attended to, by
PETER LOHRA.
auguft 30 Jjw
Mr. SPENCE, Dentist,
HAS removed to his House, two squares nortl
weft 0/ Bust Hill; 4 —eo^-v
(Walker & Ksnnedy,
HAVE reuioved their Couiuing Houfe'(for tl
present) tp the comar of Chefnut and Twelftl
'streets. September 4
Removal to Germantown,
From 136, Market-Street.
g? Richard Bayley 5; Co. so
the accommodation ftf their fliendsduring the pr
vailing fickneL m the Crty, have opened a ftol
oppufite to Doctor Martins, where tkey will fir
an extensive aflbrtment of Chintzes", Muslins, Ti
b!e Lirev, and every other article in the Linendn
pcry a'd Habeidafccry line.
•august 29. ' d:ct
The Office of the Committee^
Appointed to . luperintend tha building of tl;
Frigate to be loaned to the'Onited Status, is remt
ved to No. in Spruce street—os which thofeger
tlem«n who have not already come forward wit
their fubferiptions will please to tike notice.
ROBERT. RITCHIE, Scc'ry.
august 1
I'OK bALiC
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks bf naife afiorted
ao bales of fail canvifs, from No. 1 to 8
5 3 calks yelljiw ocljre
1 j tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
London particular ) . . „ r ,
India market 3 Madeira VVmea
Tenenfle do. in hogfheAdsand pip
Old Post do in hhd?."
Empty Chret bottles
6 cases oi Gipghaniß', Dimities, Muflinets scc
afTorted fur Ihe Weft-fn'dia market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of corda?
Writing fiates, ink flands and prelfes
»o pupcheons Jamaica rum
I bale framing twine
160 bundles (heathing paper
Nicklin & Griffith.
This Day Publijhed,
And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No.
I*9 Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price i-Xtk of a Del ar,)
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
■■■ tht Inhab,ums Town o
JMJA-TON, IB' coipinem <ration of the annl.
veilary of American I'fidepeodeEce.
By Joslah Quitter.
The inroads upon oui public liberty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we fiavefuftained
call tor Justice. I hat Reparation and thai
Juft.ce, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit
and rirmrie:s But ( o divide and conquer wa<
the nu.xim of the Devi! in ike garden of Fdcn
and to disunite «ud enslave hath been the princi'
prefent'' J VOUriU trom thlt Period, to the
Observations on the ffostot Port-Bill, cis, t , „ s
by the late J, j un , ' p ' 7
*uguft I|
Notice is hef-eby givrti,
THAT application will be made to the Treaf*.
id' tf of the Ui-ited States,. fur the renewal of the
following Certif-cucs of Six Per Cent Funded.
Stick, ttanlirigin the name of Join Carlaull, of
I.ondon, the fattl Certificates having I een loft on
-i hoard the Sw.i!lo>v Packet, CaptaiaKidd. from ~~"
Falmouth to New-Yurk
Ao. 307 1 I Cert, for 2000 dolls.
2964 I do. JOOO > L.jj E
si. 10,577 1 do. 3000 J
' Willings & Francis.
Philadelphia august 30. cofcw
Arrived in theJhip Pennfyfaania, Capt. Wit- fJ
liamson, from Hamburgh, now lying at
Cbefter. -tun,
A Number ofjGERMAN SERVANTS, men, J
women, boys and girls, amongst whom are ,
t0 Gunlmiths, Carpenters, 'i'uniers, Taylors, Black- '
smiths, Gardeners, Masons, Coachmen, Huntfmeu,
I- &c. See. whose time of l'ervituoe is to be disposed HE
<1 of on board the Ship, by , r u
■" GURNET & SMITH. fan
august 28. a
bengal Goods, lagit
CONSISTING GF of
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS, . f „ u
Chintz Coffas Maharazgungy 1
>e Chintz Guzzinas I'ookereys a . c
r- Kliabad Baftas Wrought Muslins " 1S
d Long Drawers rroi
ill Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets i£ts
!a . ~ ALSO ' ur(
ig Carolina Indigo '
Coffee in hogiheads _ uir
, A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira lon
WINE This
For Sale, on reasonable terms, by Pliila
J»hi Craig, bre ,
No. lz, Dock-ttreet.
July 14 mw*rf
iy ■ nate
FOR SALE, bj ,| cc
Id John Miller, Jun.
•n no. 8, che«»6t ssruEtT, Si''
100 hogsheads RUM, H 8
Of high proof and fine flavour !.
July T9 $ Ft 1 '
y Madras and Ventapaulem "
Jf HANDKERCHIEFS, ; on (
? e Searfaukers and Carradarries, (pre;
U cis th« newest and moll approval patterns,entitled be, 1
to the drawback, just received, i
lg ANB> FOU SALE BY j .*
Alex. J. Miller Co. e6 ""
_ No. 64, South Front street. I<VIS
may iS. rces.
——_ { ma
r WILLIAM. M'LAWS, arte
« SADLER & HARNESS MAKER, to re
T-TAS Removed .to the Corner of Chefnat »g* 0
18 LA and Tw eifth-ftreetf, on the Commons, ys, r
ts where he will receive and execute the orders of y aft
1f hlVfritdds and wholesale etiftomers, with ui'ual tg ],
attentia-i & expedition during the prevalence o£ f
theprefent Epidemic, where it has not made its
appearance this season, nor during any of the pt wa
years pall, reiver
- au" 11 ft 25 J idics,
-FOR SALE. "— 4 k dif]
?" >Y IHt SUBSe*I»KRJ, NO. Xi. KVE HTH-ST R JET, ft th
a- 'iß Bags Fresh Cloves. j* ai
. Witlings & Francis. K m ,
:a june ?g, j f r • wi»l
o —— — o. U \ t u ( c
ie Doftor GOURDES, The
\ No. 28, Pine-Street; >pear
M "• the "T ies f St - ' try
, r | IIJ , , ' us . fer y i «» to the inhabitants of Phi. to th
a ladeljhia m the line of hs proieflion He n
flatters himfelf that his long frtccefsful experience ,t '.
s !- n , the tevers, will procure fcini ihe cori' ' .. 3
fidence of the citiacns of this city ; particula .1 ,k1 S
those attacked by theprefent Epidemic. bo
«K».lt lon „l
_ 0" ihe Subscribers have remov- jAm
ed for the prelent from Penn-ftreet to Eleventh
lircet, between fill,■■ rt and High-streets. atigui
Willings & Francis. rcil't
- Stw if ,he
DUTY on CARRIAGES.
*r equt
Notice is hereby given, md c
THAT agreeably to an aa of Congress of the lave 3
J. United States of America, paflcd at Phila-I*< a»
delphia the aSth day of May, 1796,.1aying d.-jfe of
t.es oncarnages for the conveyance of pcrfsns, and J et , cv
r , r ! pe '"i n S; h L e { ° rm " f»r that purpofe—l'hat *„ 7
th-rc iull.be lelncd, colleaed and paid, upon ail I.P"
- A r »l ees i for tht couv "y auee of persons, which * lle '
nail be lupt by or lor any perfon,'for his or her *>e»te
i' own 41 fc ' ° r c " ,at out to hire, or for the convey- lortcr
;ng of pautrrgers, the several duties and rates sol- ff.A
'° W " l «j V,z - doll,. X
i'or and upon very.coach Ij ' /
uptiji every chariot J2 ni't' '
upon (very pott chariot II :i«o,
? upon every oft chatfe ii urs ii
„ uponevery photon, with or without top 9 f],
,1 upon every coachee 9 .
h Upon other carnages, having pannel "J '
work above, with blinds, glafles, > 9 f
or curtains >eeve
Upon four-whee) carriages, hrvvingT Yrunii
frame poits and tops, with Heel £ 6 n
"> • • fpi nigs \
Wpon four whael top carriages, with ") V ' ''
wooden or iron springs on jacks J ' PP"'
upou curricles with tops j iimir
Upon chailes with tops 3 r d a
upon chair-! with tops j
upon fulkiei with t«p> 3 i ,r
upon other two wheel top carriages J i'* ' 1
*pon two wheel carriages with lieel> ; ''t 1
or iron springs J 3 :nt f
lor and upon all other two wheel carriages •jy tl
upon every four wheeled ea r riag;,T 17Q7
having framed poQs and tops, ( » j
rei, ing upon wooden fpar< ) .. .
Ihe Collecftorof the revenue ol the firft di/ifioil a ' l ol
e of the firft survey of the djftridl of Pennsylvania, 200 ;
will attend daily until the ;ptli day of September lh« p
next, or the purpose ot receiving the duties on - ]n((
carriages, at Germantown, tn the Main street, a " f
lrttle above the fifn of the King of Pruilia, of P.
« 1C all person« polieffed of such carriages art '" I"
desired to take notice. Hlicl
Notice is also given, A
To a,l retail defers in wines and
pirrtuous liqyori, that licenses will be granted to jiime
them j one licence sos carrying on the bufmefs of fijffu
retailing of win s .in a less quantity, or in left «,,v
uantittes, than 50 gallon-—and one lieenre for sp om
*ti) ing on the business of retailing spirituous li» ,
quors in less quantities thajMwenty galtens, atthe ! n 1
lame tnne and at the fame place, by hem
JAMES ASH, f rom
Co.leflor of the ift division of the ift Jifcaf
j*irvey of the diftria of Peiinfylvania. ,
Office of lofpcdion at Germantown, ")
, »2d August, 1798. J r
Every denomination of Stamps to be had »t, <
, | at laid office. * V ,f, e
' j , , Tl.is
' 0" The
to the OHic. of Inspection in Germantown, op the ;J, o
*aih »rcct, a little df>ove the figi of the King of
1 iK.wh e re attendance will be given forthf
con.m<idation of those whowifhany inftramento
2 Tuefda >. 8 ' T and Saturday?*