of tf>e H-tUttti A%n Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
"Number i
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
NEW-YORK, Sept. 26.
Important News!
■At length the public expeftation receives
gratification on the interesting fubjefts of
European politics. Yesterday bythefhip
Fanny, -in 48 days from-Greenock, we
have received EngliJh papers to the 10th
of August. The firft thing that strikes
us, is what relates to Mr. GERRY.—
He received passports from the French
Government, on the 15th July, on the
delivery of which TALLEYRANF)
took occasion to fend liirn another long
insidious letter, in which he throws the
whole blame of the failure of the negoci
ation on the fcfincemy of the American
government. Every article of Furopean
intelligence breathes WAR, here, and
among the continental powers. Ire
land is reduced to tranquility, and pro
mife3, contrary to predictions abundant
harvefl..—--England remaias calm and
dignified in th* mirlft ef splendid fuccef
lts. rßuonaparte in all probability is
initio h"ands of th: gallant Nelson.—The
flame of war is lighting up its all devour
ing fires, and every where we fee omen-os
a general a:>ddredful conflagration. The
Auftrians have resolved to refufe assent
to the insolent and exorbitant demands
of the haughty and venal Direftory.—
■Sweden is muttering herforces and bright
ening her armour.—Prussia is no longer
pQrfuing a temporizing and short lighted
policy.— Russia has dispatched to the aid
of England one squadron, by the Baltic
and another by the Eurine, very oppor
tunity, to (hare in the total overthrow of
the boalled cor.queror of Asia.—Naples j
we fear is swallowed up in the Vefuvian I
vortex of the French revolution ; but
we detain the public the
Interesting Details of thef« and other
Important Occurrences.
PARIS, July 12.
Letter from the Minister of Foreign Rela
tions, to Mr. Gerry, Envoy from the
United States, enclosing him his passport.
As long, Sir, as I had roorfi to flatter
myfelf that I might fulfil the wifties of the
Executive Direftory, by endeavouring in
concert with y >u to re-eftabli(h the former
good unde-Handing between the French re
public and the United States, I exerted my
belt efforts both iu my conferences and in
my correfpnndence with you, to facilit&te
the means, to eftabli(h the basis, to enter on
the business, and to convince you of the util
ity with which your presence at Paris tnuft
be attended. It was in your charafter of
Envoy from the American government that
I received you, and that I wrote to you ;
it depended on yourfelf to be publicly re
ceived, and admitted by the Executive Di
reftory. Without cb-inciding in opinion
with you that any changes have been in
duced by the departure of Messrs. Pinckney
and Marshall in the full powers in which I
read that you were authorized to treat separ
ately, it appeased to me, that in the very hy
pcthefis in which you placed yourfelf, you
ought to refer the question to your govern
ment, and in the interval to fix with me, in
a calm and friendly difcuflion, upon all the
disputable points on which we differed.
This way of proceeding was the more na
tural, because without attending to the pre
mature information which your government
j| has abt inedofthe offer to treat with you
after tlis departure of your colleagues, my
note, of the :Bth Ventofe, March 18, which
mud have reached Philadelphia towards the
end of Floreal, left not a shadow of doubt on
tliis fnbjeft —it contains three objefts per
fectly diflinft—it begins by reftifying, with
the dignity that belongs to the French go
vernment, the ilatement of grievances made
by the United Slates, and drawn out by their
envoys in the inverted order of fafts the
preceding 28th Nivofe, Jan. 17, it next
points out the motives that prevented the
negociation being carried oh with the en
voys collcftively. Tt finally declares, in the
moll lolemn manner, conciliatory difpofi
' tions of the Executive Directory, and its
fermal desire of reuniting, between the two
countries, the lies of their ancient amity,
and the intention of treating with you.
Such an explicit declaration could not have
heen made but with the view of furnifhing
the President of the United States with in
fallible means of coming to an accommoda
tion. It was throwing down a pledge of
peace in order that it might be taken up.
I presumed to think that yon could not be
Jong without receiving analogous inttruc
tions, and even other powers, were they ne
cessary ; or, at least, that if yon had an
nounced to the President a desire of return
ing to America, fame other envoy would
rorae and accomplish the happy talk which
we (hould have had the fatisfaftion of pre
paring. To hopes, thus solidly founded,
there were added some observations on the
.aincon*eniencies that attended your depar
ture. I gave you to understand, that not
•withllanding your assurances to me, no one
would believe that it proceeded solely from
your own inclination, from a thorough con
viftion of the invalidity of yout powers, or
from a desire of feeing the business of the
-jiegociatiou entrusted to other bands. I ob
fcrved t« you on the conjectures to which
it would give rife ; on the means it would
-furnifh to the British cabinet, that spares no
..pains in its endeavors to drive France and
By John W. Fen no, N O, 119 Cbefnuf Street.
P H IL AD ELP HI, A.-
the United States to eitren ties, from
winch it alone would derive advantages; 1
and even on the very fufpiaooi that it mutt I
call up inthe mindof 'Dvettiment. j 1
1 endeavored to make you fee into its potfible j
confequance : but a variety of circum
(lances occurred which have already retarded 1
the reccnciliation of the two republics ; it \
is but natural for him who feel- a sincere so- j
lituee for peace, to be under apprehrnfions
left new nbfticles should arise to retard it.
These considerations which I (hall ever re-
Colleft with prrde, induced me to oppose the ;
desire which you had expressed of quitting
France. But you peremptorily inflated upon
it in your letter of the 2zd iaft. The Di
reftory has eonfequently authorized me to
furnifh you with the paflports which you
have rt que (led for ponrfelf and for the vef
fei that awaits you at Havre. You have
them enclafed May your return to the U
nited States, and the cammunication of what
has passed between us, since you only have
rtfprefented your government, remove the
injurious opinion of hollile intentions on the
parts of France ! You have frequently af-i
fured me, that, if you could nit treat here as
envoy, your good offices (houldjnot be want
ingas a citizcnon yourreturn to the United
States. It were impossible for y4o to fender
: a more figna! service to the two countries
than bv contributing to make their political
and commercial relations accerd with their
inclination and their interest. " , J ffure your
government that the Executive Direftory
perseveres in the intention of loyally and sin
cerely endeavoring to reconcile the differ
ences that have arisen betweeen the French
Republic and the United States, as soon as
an opportunity »f so doing thall be sincerely
held cut, If it be really true that the dif
politions of your government are prepared to
co-operate, let them but.give a proof of it,
and you befere hand may aefwer for its suc
cess.
You cannot diiTerable, fir, tfiatif nothing hacl
prevented you from following up with me the
examination and the redrefling of the grievances
which divide the two Countries, we (hould n»t
long (land in need of any thing but our respec
tive ratifications. Who c»n entertain a donhl
of the fincerityof the French government, when
it (hall be known that fer nearly three months
every fpecific felicitation came from me, and
that in faithful compliance with the engage
ments I contracted ia my note of 28 Ventofe,
( March 18) was the firft seriously to press for
ward the business of the negociation after the
departure of Kefirs. Pinckney and Marshall
It will not, I trust, be said, that a refufd to
treat with them argued an unwillingneis t«
come to a conciliation, whereas that refufal was
accompanied with a promise to treat with you,
and your full powers represented you as a per
son who was authnrifed to treat separately. To
that document Ikall I neceflarily appeal, because
it is the ba6s as the opinion which your govern
ment onght to have formed, and that even by
admitting you were tied down by secret reflric
tions, I could not in nay mind oppose what 1 do
not know from the trust due to your 1 ftenfible
authority.
Yes, Sir, when scarcely acquainted with
the departure of Messrs. Pinckney and Mar
(hal, I made it a point ia every conference
which I held with you from the moment,
to evince to you the urgency, the pr ipriety
and the possibility of an aftive negociation.
I laboured to reconcile them, and I was
about to tratifmit propofak to v»a when a
packet from your government arrived at
Havie. Yon then seemed preparing to de
part. Till thfn I never had imagined that
you conceived the design of embarking till
we had come to an agreement upon the de
finitive articles to be ratified by your govern
ment. A few days after I reciered some
dispatches from Philadelphia, which for a
moment gave a new turn to my correspon
dence with you. Upon the 22d Prairial,
June 10. I notified to you that the difpofi
tibns of the Executive Dire&ory were the
fame, and I rrquelled you to inform me
whether you were in a Puliation to negoci
ate ? Upon the 30th Prairial, June 18, I
transmitted you a complete plan of negoci
ation. Upon the 9th Meffidor, June 27,
I sent you my firft note for discussion upon
one of the points of our treaties which are
not put in execution in the United States.
You declined to make any reply to it. It
is necessary, however, t3 be agreed upon
the details of a subject, in order to arrive at
any conclusion—Upon the 18th Meffidor,
July 6, I sent you two other notes. In vain
I accompanied these papers with the mod
cordial invitation rapidly to run over this se
ries of indispensable diicuffions upon all our
grounds of complaint. You never even
gave me an opportunity to pr»ve to you
with how much liberality the Direftwy
were disposed to aft in this matter. You
continued ortly to write for your pcrmiffion
to depart.—Yet, it is the French Republic
or, which the blame is laid in the United
otat.es, of being avcrfe to peace ! Perfidious
instigators will infraate tmtt it has always
b<en averse to it. I (hall go back therefore
to the firft period, when symptoms of dis
content manifeft themselves, that is to fay,
on the arrival of the Minister Genet at Phi
ladelphia, in Prairial, ill year. A univer
sal joy appeared at the declarations which
be wag aathorifed to make. He then ex
pressed the amicable and generous exprellion
ot the French government, which, power
ful in the national energy, a'oftained from
reclaiming the aid of its allies, In a (liort
time some of its proceedings gave umbrage :
' they were the effe& of a zeai ill adapted to
circumstances, and unfortunately dill worse
■ interpreted. The President made nis com
plaints in France at the end as the fame
> year. The oommittee of public fafcty gave
1 immediate j and other aget tsar
-1 j rived at Philadelphia in the bfginnijig of
SATURDAY EVENING, SEP 1 EMBER 29, 1798.
Ventofe, year 2. Their inflru£li>ns will 1
bear the utmost publicity. Not to ifiterfere 1
in any party affairs ; to refpeft the g.jvern- <
ment ; to prompt it to taawtaii its neutral- 1
vigor; to reprrfs aU armament* j
which might endanger it ; to maintain the
rights fectired to France by treaties. Such 1
is the fnbjecl of these inftruftions; such, t
further, were the inftruJlions given to the '
Minister Adet, who fncceeded these agents 1
in the year 3. Sorely nothing can be m»re '
pacific. Neverthc ess the rights of France ;
are Mifenfibly affeftsd ; the most important i
clauses of her treaties art rendered inligni
ficant. Her (hips experience the most dif- 1
couraging vexations ; England sports with
impunity with the neutrality of the United
States, which becomes a source of great
l°fs to France, which placed too much con
fidence in it- A tranfaclion v clandestinely
negociated, concludes with establishing to
the disadvantage of a power at amity with
the U. States, the of its most
implacable enemy. From that time for
ward there has been nothing between the
American government w'sich the represent
ations embarraft, and the .minister plenipo
tentiary of the French repbulic who Were
bound to make them, but a dorrtfpo dence
which has gradually rileo in point of aspe
rity. The French government has never
interfered. It has rested in the hope that
: the true interest of the United States would
lead them todifcover that Britain was draw
ing them into her vortex- Far from assum
ing a hollile attitude,.it affedled indifference,
in order to be patient confidently with dig
nity. The number of complaints which
were prefentcd compelled it at length to aft
in a different manner. On the 25th Bru
maire, November 5, year 5, a declaration
was made of the grounds ef complaint, and
in order to bring about a negociation, too
long deferred, it draws from the treaties of
Paris and London the arguments bed calcu
lated to accelerate it. It was animated by
no h'iftile view ; no disposition towards ag
gression. In order to obtain justice from
the U. S. it places them in a situation to be
the firft to call for an arrangement. Let ss
fee whether it has rejefted any honourable
proposal.
Mr. Pinckney had set out before the de
claration of the 25th Brumaire, which sus
pended the aecuftomed relations. He came
to replace M. Munroe, and like him to
explain ami palliate the eondufl of the
United States, without any fpeeial powers
fufpefling the _ negociation desired of
France. He could not be received, not
being in a situation to perform the con
ditions under a resumption of political con
nexion. The President of the United States
thought it his duty to call an extraordinary
meeting of the Legislative Body. I (hall
not review this opening speech, nor the turns
which the debates took in the course of the
session. I (hall only fay the impression they
made at Paris was unfavourable previous to
the arrival of the Envoys; that this circurn
ftance raifed 3n obstacle which
ought to bava b»en forefeen at Philadelphia,
that the Envoys themselves, unwilling to
observe the natural effedl of such provoca
tion, contributed to render its effeft more
durable- It, however, was finally made
to yield to the primitive desire ot a sincere
reconciliation. A proof of this you fee in
the txpedient suggested of treating wi h you
separately, for a government ho (HI el y dis
posed would not have yielded to that delicate
bias, which preserves honor, yet gives effcit
to pacific intentions. You given me
to understand, Sir, that it would have been
proper for the Executive Directory to have
backed the declarations I have made in their
name by a change in th* measures which af
feft the commerce of the United States. I
can answer to you that our government had
fufficiently ascertained its object, i:i conform
ing, from the beginning, to the French Re
public the rights which flow from its treaties,
but let us be less evaiiling, and m.rre equit
able, one toward another. Though th«
measures taking by France are only the
confeqtience of those adopted by the United
States, you must have remarked, in my
propositions of the 30th, Prairial (June 18)
that the Executive Directory is, that their
refpe&ive preteufions (hould be examined
and regulated collaterally. It intends to
mark, in one aft, a durable monument of
th# futnre frisndlhip of the two Repub
lics—the justice which they owe to each
other ; and every idea of falfe glory is dis
tant from its mind.
In taking leave of you, fir, I have thought
it my duty to give you this testimony of my
esteem.—it is manifefted in the unrestrained
confidence with which I addressed you,
and in the regrets which I feel from your
departure in the existing circumstances.
(■Signed)
Ci M. TtllyrancL Perigord.
P. S. 17th Meffidar [July 13] —A cir
cumstance of infinite importance has retard
ed this letter.—l know not how it is but
at every step toward a reconciliation some
cause of irritation intervenes, and that al
ways originates in the United States. Some
days ago advices have been received by the
Executive Direftory, hurried beyond all
bounds no longer keeps up appearances. A
law of the 7th of last month authorizes it
1 to cause to be attacked every French (hip
of war which have arrested or entertain
■ ed intentions of arresting Ameri«an vessels.
: A refolutioß of the House of Reprcfenta
: tives suspends, from the thirteenth of this
month all commercial relations with the
French republic and its dependencies. Se
veral projefts of law» have been propo
fed for bani(hing the French, a nd fe
queftratiog French property. The long fuf
fering of the Diredtory is about to (hew it
felf in a manner nbe < 'd in qviellioa.
Perfidy can never throw a veil over the pa
cific difpofitkms which it/ hag never ceased
t* manifeft. It is even at the moment of
thii new provocation, when it would seem
to have no honourable choice but that of ;
war, that it confirms the affuraaces I have
given you cm its behalf. In the present cri
(is it confides itfelf to a measure of ftcurity
and preservation, by putting a temporary
embargo on American vessels, with a re
feree of indemnity if it takes place. It is
(lill ready, it i» as much prepared as ever to I
-terminate fey a sincere negociation the dif
ferences which subsist between the two coun
tries. Such is its rtpugnance to consider
the United States as enemie*, that in spite
of their hoflile derrronftrstions, it means to
wait till it be ir. tfiftably forced by realhof
ttlitie3.
Since you. intend to depart, hallen, at
least. fir, to transmit to yaur government
this folemrTdeclaration.
LONDON, July 26.
AT>MTR Ah 7T- 01-FICK.
A letter, of which the foltewing is a copy, Ins
been transmitted by admiral lord St. Vinctnt,
commander in chief of his majesty's ships and
vessels off Cadiz, to Svan Nepean, efqr. secre
tary of the admiralty.
Sen H'rft, Jwv 17 • of Pamtcllaria
JVNIVTI2 leagues.
My Lord,
After a chace of twelre hours, and a close
ailion of eight minutes, his majcHy's Ihip under
my command this morning at four o'clock cap
tured the Scnfible, a French .16 gun frigate, n
pounders, and 330 men, commanded by mon
sieur Bnurde, capitaine de Vaifltrau, was new
coppered, copper fattened, and had a thorough
repair at Toulon two months ago.
A general of division, Ba<-aguey D'Hilliers,
with his suite, was on board, going to Toulon
with an accoant of the capture if Malta.
The Sea Horse's officers and men conduced
themselves much to my fatisfaflion, and I re
ceived that afiiftance from Mr. Wiimott, the
firft lieutenant, which I might naturally expedl
from an officer who had been in nine aflions,
and received eight wounds.
Two matters mates and nine men belonging
to the Culloden evinced the fame steady courage
as the crew ®f that (hip have done on every oc
casion.
I have the honour to be, Sc.c.
(Signed) ED. J. FOOTE.
Sea Horse—l feamin, 1 drummer killed ; Mr.
Wiimott firft lieutenant (lightly, ij seamen,
I corporal of marines, 1 private marine,
wounded.
Senfible —18 killed ; monsieur Bourde, capitaine
et capitaine de Vaifleau, second capitaine, jj
men wounded.
July 28.
There were fix beautiful stands of silk co
lours found on board La Sensible.
La Sensible is detained Jjy lord St. Vin
cent. She is a fine frigate.
Such was the dispatch used in fending her
to sea again, that (he was manned and re
commiffioned on the very evening (he arrived
off Cadiz. '
Tarmouth, July 26.—Yesterday arrived
the Prince of Wales extra packet with a
foreign meflVnger, with dispatches of im
portance for government, and about 2 2,000 l
in lprcie.
Glafgaiv, "July 31. —Thursday arrived a
Hamburgh mail. Almost every.article ef
intelligence brought by this mail breathes
war,
ytuguj! 7.—~lnfa Vienna Gazette it is (la
ted that admiral Neilfon past Messina Light
House on the 20th Jme.
Another account fay< he did not leave
Messina harbour till the 23d ; and that the
Biitiftt admiral had declared he would fink
every (hip that would bring provilion* to
Malta.
Paffawan Oglou has been beheaded.
A report prevail* ii.-rc, that according to letters
arrived at Grenoble from Marfeille»,ther« has been
an angagement between the fleet commanded by
Rear Admiral Nelson. These letters (late, that
the engagement took place not far from Malta;
that two of the Englifli fcips, were funk, and 4 ta
ken, and that Nelfon'sYquadron is dimiuiOied three
fourthe. L'Kckode la Fr.
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Sipt*mber 21 > 1798.
The public is hereby informed, that
an Office of Deposit and Discount will be opened
on Monday next, at the house lately occupied Vy
Samuu Richa*»*t, near the Market House in
GermantowH —where tht business of this Intuitu
ition will be tranfa&ed during the continuance o.
thejnalignant fever now prevailingin Philadelphia
HENRY KUHL, Ajjiflant Cajhier.
September 2 a d
Wanted to purcbaje.
APPROVED Wills on AmtterHara, for wh ch
cash will be gi /en at the rate of thirty fc
ven cents per Guilder, Apply to the Calhier of
the Bank of the Ur.ited States.
September aid, 17^8.
r
Philadelphia, Septtmber 26.
TIIE Mail for New-Cattle, Ca,itwell bridge,
Duck creek, Dover, Frederica, Milfjrd,
George-town and Dagfcoroujfh, Delaware ;
Trop and Snow hill, Maryland, Horn Town,
Aicomack ccurt-houfe, and Northampton court
house, Virginia ; will be elofed this office ev
ery Monday, Wednefnay and Friday at h}lf palt
eight o'cLtk, A. M. until lk day of April,
ROBERT PATTON.
September »f> dnt
CASTOR OIL
jls much wanted ; Thole who have
i I it to dispose of will find a ready fide
: by apptying to apy of the Apotheca
ries.
£Volvms XIV*.
Xitt (3-Jjctte.
PHILADELPHIA, ~
SATURDAY EVHNINO, SEPTEMBER 20
DIED, 011 Monday l*ft, Mr. WlUU>i
Moulder, fen. Citycomir.iflioncj', aged?"" 1
years,
Esq. merchant of this city.
fever, at Mannington, near Salem, 1 M. .
Beulah Humphreys, of Clement Hum
phreys, Esq. of Southw. t rk.
James Darling, Prii.ter.
Betz wife of Mr. John Betz. lately decea
sed.
prevailing fever, is the 57th year of 1 age,
the Rev. Deflor William Hcndel, paitor of
the German Reformed Ctrgregaiion, in
this city.
» *"T" '' '
CITV HOSPITAL REPORT.
ton SEPTEMBkt il).
Admitted, TEN.
Di..d, EIGHT.
El pcd. ONE.
DifelK.rged.FOUß.
Remaining in the Hospital 133, of whom,
53 are on the recovery.
Interred from city and suburbs 33
City Hospital 8
4i
PHTLIP S. PHYSICK.
Chrittopher Darrah, Steward
By order ot the Board of Managers.
WILLIAM JONES, Present
Atteft^TiMOTHv Paxson, Clerk.
new cases of the pre
vailing fever, reported by 13 Phjrlicians, for
the last 24 hours.
Total burials in the City and Hospital
burying grounds, for the 24 hour*, ending
last evening at 8 o'clock, 80 Adults, 14
Children.
A LI^T
Of all the Burials in the Friends Burial
ground published for the information of
our absent felfow-citizens, 1798,7 mo. 2d.
2. Mark Miller, age 24 years
3. Isaac Paul, son of John Paul, Carpenter
age-d 11 months
J. Oliver Evans son of Oliver Evaas, mill
wright, aged 2 years.
9. Thomas Cummins, son of William Cum
mins, copperfssith, aged 2 years.
14. Elizabeth Williams, daughter of David
Williams, aged 1 year and 10 months.
16. Lastitia, daughter of Thomas Brown,
Carpenter, aged 1 year
22. Caroline, daughter of Jcflee Jonei,
carpenter,
23. John Zilley, a stranger, aged 21 years.
24.. Either, daughter of George Fox, aged
8 months.
25. Thomas, foil of James David/on Car
ter, aged 6 months.
26 William, foil of David Taul, agtd 7
years.
27. A child of Dr. Benjamin Say.
28. Johs Garrigues. Cooper, a,<ed 84 ye»rs
29. William Stanfbury, son of John Stanf
bury, fboemaktr, aged 11 inorths.
Do. Samuel, son of William Robefon,ma
giftfate, ajed 1 year.
31. Mary Hatfield, agi-d 24 years.
Total for the 7th month— 4 adults, 12
children, are 16. C.
1 I will fend a lift for the Bth month 10 ia
fert in thy paper.
. £Jr The Subscribers to this Gazette
■ residing in, and near Germantmvn,
are respectfully informed, that their
papers •will be forwarded (daily) (o
Mr. Samuel Richardet, in German
tmvn ; where a list of their names
1 will be left.
Remote Subfcribeis for this Ga
zette are requested to forward pr. port,
the arrearages due from them refpeiTtive
ly. Postmasters who may have receiv
ed fubf*;riptions are earnestly desired to
1 remit the fame. At this interesting and
diftrefiing crisis, attention to this notice
will peculiarly oblige tUc Editor.
Wanted—A Boy to attend an
Olfic«, fiiuaud in a healthy ; art nf the city.
Enquire at No. 21, North Sere-nth flrcrt.
Wanted ; a Perl'ou
WHO will conrradt to supply »hc Marine
Corps, with rations. &c. Apply to
W. W. Btritßowxs,
Major Cemtsundaut of the Marine Corps.
Sept 19 6
A Houie to let,
In Fourth street, next doir to the Indi.iß Queen.
Knqtrirt of Robiri-Hui lu, N0.58, Soutli Front
flrect. 5 inly n
jJj* Ihe rjcalili »■ ci kc,»t open hi, in j,
day, at the City Hall, where eve y nrecflai y
; convenience i. procured for icin the Ik £
and burying the dead
WiLLIA. I ALLEN.
yearsrOST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, Sepilmhr 15th, 1798. ,
LETTERS for the British Packet for t
Falmouth will be received atfhis Office un
til Tuesday, 2d Oftbber, at ii o'clock, ;
tooon*. , , 1
N. B. The inland pottage to New-York 1
mult be paid. I
* # * WE are idformed that feoxee for
the daily conveyance of letters from Phila
delphia. addiefTcd for the Banltb of Pen'i
fylvania or North Amerifci, are lodged at
the Pod Office in the City, for the accom
moda ion of thtife who choose to avail them
selves of that mode of conveyance.
At a Meeting- of a Number of
the Inhabitants of Chester County, held
at the* Centre House 111 Weft Bradfotd
Townlhip, for the purpose of romir ating
a fu> f able Person f r Representative in
Congress, and also a suitable Person for
Slate Senator,
The following Persons were recommend
ed to their fellow-citizens for the following
offices.
RICHARD THOMAS. Esquire
Representative in Congress for the Dif
trift composed of the counties of Chester
and Delaware.
DERMIS WHF.LEM, Ehuire
State Senator, for the Diftritt composed
of the cou. ties of Chester, Montgomery,
and Bucks.
Resolved, that the Proceedings of tkis
Meeting be published in the public news
papers.
Signed by Order of th* Meetin2,
° ISAAC WAYNE, Chairman.
Josfph Hemphill, Secr'y.
September Ith.
HEALTH-OFFICE,
11 th September, 1798.
rtLLOW-CITIZENS,
OUR address of th; iftinft. was in
tended to present to your view the deplora
ble state of ou» city, and to excite into ac
tive exertion the philanthropy and benevo
lence so eminently chara&eriftic of the citi
2ens of Pennsylvania. The fame generous
fer.timents which you have difplaycd has in
fluenced the worihy and benevolent citizens
of Bait more ; who always alive Ao the feel
ings of hume»ify, have, it appears by the
public papers, agreed to a fubfeription for
the relief of our diftrefled fellow citizen!.
We return them all the gratituae and ref
to which dispositions so amiable are
entitled ; —but it becomes our duty public
ly to (late that a surd has been provided for
the purpose, upon the principal of a loan
in anticipation of the liberality and justice
of our Legislature, which precludes the
necefSty of donations in money from the
humane citizens of our fitter states —Con
tributions of provisions from our fellow-ci
tizens in the country, as well in New Jersey
as in our own State, have been forwarded
far the use of the diftrefled,. with a liberali
ty which does honor to the donors.
We flatter curfclves that similar donations
will be continued by those generous indivi
duals, who are contiguous to the city, and
ean with convenience spare a part of their
produce for the relief of fufferfng humanity.
By order of the Board of Managers.
Wm. JONES, President.
Attest
Tjmothy Paxson, Clerk.
New Encampment,
The Committee who superintend the en
campment at Mailer's place near the Mill
Pond on thf* Germantown Ro?d, about
two miles from the city, refpeftfully inform
friends that they stand in need
of an immediate supply of vegetables and
ftravv for th- use of those distressed citizens
who are flying from the present calamity.
The committee flatter therofelves.that the
farfe liberality will be found in the farmer,
and others, to supply this Encampment, as
basbeen to that ontheCommonsnearSchnyl
kilj, both having the sams laudable object
in view.
John InOieep 1
•Jon. Robefon V committee.
Isaac IV. Morris. J
Catnp, Mailers' Place,
September 10, '9B.
THE Committee are happy in hav
ing it in their power to inform those citi-,
Zens who are not in a situation to provide
for thetsfelves and are desirous to remove
from the city or liberties, that they are now
prepared to receive from 6 to 700 persons at
the Encapment on Mafter?s Place, in the
Northern Liberties where such persons will
be furmfbed with comfortable apartments
and rectffary provisions/ during the present
•alamity.
Agreeable to notification in fcveral of the
newspapers of the City of Philadelphia, ft
queiing a meeting of the merchants, trad
ers, mechanics End other citizens, at the
Union School House io Germantown, on
Wednesday 29th August. at 4. o'clock ?.
M. in order to fix O'.i a lUilable chara&er to
offered at the enfoing election to repre
sent the City of Philadelphia in Congress,
in the vacancy occasioned by the dectafe of
John Swanwick, Esq. and also in the next
Congress—A senator, to represent the
state senate, the city of Philadelphia and
County of Delaware —and fix persons to re
present the city ia thehonfp of aflwnbly.—*
A numerous and refpeflable Iwdy of the
freemen of ibe city attenaedT The bufi
oefs of the meeting being open*!, a letter
from captain Joseph Asthony, addressed to
the chairman of the me«ti»g wfls read, ex
prefling a decided opinion on the necessity
of uniting the interest of the fricmls of the
conftitt'tion and government in the choice
of their reprefentative,that he conceived Mr
Robfltt Wain well qualified for a feat in
Congvefsi aud soliciting his fellow citizens
that hk tuinie may not be offered in framps
tiiion with that gentL-rifan, who has his ful
coneui'rence and approbation. |
ROBERT WALN,
was nominated and unanimously carried as
the Gand:date for Congtefs.
FRANCIS GURNEY,
as ft":te Senator for the dillrift campoltd *f
the City and County of Philadelphia aad
Countyof Delaware; and »s Members to re
present the City in afiembly—
i Jacob Hiltaheimer,
Lawrence SecktJ,
Andrew Bayard,
Willnm Hall, printer.
Samuel IV. Fisher,
jfobn C/emenfcftacier.
The question being put, will this meeting
support the foregoing ticket ? it was unani
mously agreed to, and it was also recom
mended to the freemen of the of Phi
ladelphia attached to the federal government
for their support, and to those of the Coun
ty of Philadelphia,and County of Delaware
in support of the Senator.
Ordered, that the minutes of ths meeting,
-signed by the chairman a.id secretary, be
publifhtd in the newspapers of the City, for
tfce general information of the ele&ors.
LEVI HOLLI
Chairman.
Daniel Smlth, Secretary.
Germantown, 29th August, 1798.
Germantown, September \jl, 1798.
Mr, Fen no,
Please to publish the following tickets
i for Seleft and Common Councils, at the ap
proaching tle&ion, and oblige one of yaur
fellow.citizens.
SELECT COUNCIL.
Godfrey Haga Thomas Willing, jun.
Daniel Smi h (ofenh Magoffin.
COMMON COUN CIL.
Lawrence Herbert
Henry Drinker, jun;
Gideon H. Wells
Calper W. Morris
Thomas P. Cope
George Pennock
Thomas Parker
Michael Kepple
Joseph Hopkinfoii
Kearney Wharton
Cofirad Gerhard
George Fox
John RugSn
Edward Randolph
Malcolm M'Donnald
Joseph North (Union-street)
Levi Hoilingfwortk
George Wijjing
Edward Pennington
Jonathan Jones,
i
NOW LANDIhG,
From on board the brig- Amiable Matilda, from
Bourdeaux, ardforfale by the fubferiber,
88 casks CLARET
jl do. do. of a superior quality
»trunk« green PARASOLS.
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. ilj'U'alnut-ftreet.
irHO HAS 9# BAND,
Whits Wine in half Caffes "J
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in j
boxes and haikets
Lunelle "J ! Entitled to
Stuterne I I Drawback.
Irilh Market > WINES m Cases I
Macarty and 1
Medoc J j
Rota Wine in hhdt.
Pimento in bags.
may zj. e«bf
FLOUR FOR SALE
By thr Subscribers,
Deliverable at ant of the ports o* the Dela
ware—who have also on hand at their (lores, a
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
th*poft will be attended to.
Levi liellingsworlh iff Son.
august «8. dtf
LANDING,
At South Street wharf, the cargo of the ftip Coo
neiticut, from Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of the growth of 1794 and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In cannifters—for sale by
FETS.R SLIGHT,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
IJO hhds. choice- Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy Ift and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
and quarter cases
Madeira in pipas
Old Batavia Arrack
july 1
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
as the newest and raoft approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
ANB FO» SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller & 60.
No. 64, South Front fl*eet.
may 18. f
for sale, by.
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour
j ul r 19 §
N 0 r 1 c e.
Bank of the United States,
September 4. 1798.
THE Public are informed that after the 9th inft.
this Bank will be opened at 9 o'clock in- the morn
ing, and so remain until noon.
G.SIMPSON, Cafcier.
ffptember 4. i dtf
Bank of Pennsylvania.
THE Bank, of Pennsylvania is removed to Ger
man town,—where the bufißefo \*ill be tranfa&ed
to-morrov/, in the Union Schcfol House-
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
gfffftember 4 x §
N n TIC E~
' Bank of North America,
Augujl 28th, 1798.
' r P'HOSE Persons who have N«£esoi Bills to pay
: JL at this Bank are informed,
; That regular Notices will be put under a sealed
cover dirtied to the refpoSive payer and lodged
in the Poft-Oflice every Monday until the return
1 of tht citizens.
B JVCfUfU) WEILS, Cojiks.
• au ii- W **
P
In the Name and bythe Authority of the Com- j
moil wealth of Penrtlj lvania, i ,
By TII OIIAS MIF FLI N, ,
Governor of the laid C<>i»rao»wcallhl J .
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS, it hjs been Hated to trie by j '
the President and Diretflors of the Bank ■. '
of Penniylvania, That on the night of Satur- j 1
day the firft infant, the Houlis now occupied by
the laid Bank, commonly called Carpenters .
Wall, was burgiarioufly entered by some villain)
or villains unknown, and therefrom a consider- i
able number of Bank Notes of various descrip
tions and denominations wers stolen and carried
away: to tiik iNTtN r that tne perpetrator,
orr perpetrators of so great a crime, and ?Pe
acceflariestheretq, maybcdilc >vered and brought
ta condign punishment, I havs deemed it expe
dient te ilike this Proclamation, HiRiBY offer
ing and promlfing a rey/aud of ONE THOU
SAND DOLLARS to any person, or perlons,
who Hull discover the perpetrator, or perpetra
tors of the said crime, or any of them, or any
accelTa'ry thereto, before or after the fail, to.be
paid on the conyiflion of all or any of the offen
deri": AND I do hereby further offer and pfo
mife A FREE AND ENTIKE PARDON
unt» any one of the perpetrators, or acceflaries
aforefaid of the oomiv.iffion of th« laid crime;
who fliall make a full and l'atisfailory disclosure
of all ths eircumftaaccs relative to the contriving
and accouaplifhiHg the fame, and of the names
and placet of abode of his or her aflbciates, so
that ftich afibeiates may be apprehended and
convi.iled: AND all the Judg«. Jufticea, She
riffs, Csoitebles, and other Public Officers of
this Commonwealth (according to the duties vf
their refpeilivcj Nations) are hereby required and
enjoined to *le all 'awful meaiu to deteil and
bring to justice each and every person concerned
in contriving, or perpetrating the crime afore
faid.
GIVEN under my hand and the Great
S:al of the State, at Ger.mantown, she
(L: S.) third day of September, in the year of
our Lord, oue thousand seven hundred
and ninety-eight, and of tke Common
wealth thf twenty-third.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
By the Governor:
A.J Dallas.
Secretary of tbe Commonwealth.
FOR SALE,"
.The Cargo of the Schr: Sincerity
Benjamin Montcith flatter, from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
945 Fenegas of Cocoa
4003 lb. ot Flora Indigo
aio Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins
By JViffings & Francis•
* No. Eleventh Hreet.
July l: d'tf
FOR~SALE,
3T THE SUIISB R.t B £ RS, NO. E L KVt KTH-ST R F ET,
18 Bags Frefti Cloves.
Willing s Iff Francis.
June 3Q. ~ dtf
WILUAM M'LAWS,
SADLER &MARNESZ MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
and Twelfth-ilreetfi, on the Commons,
where he will receive and execute the orders of
his friends and wholesale cultorm-rs, with usual
attentiom & expedition during the prevalence of
the present Epidemic, where it ha« Bot made its
appearance this season, nor during any of the
years pad.
aupuft 25 $
o3* Should a gentleman, a na
tivc of Teneriffe, who hw been known in America by
the name gf Lewis Martin Cevel at oae time, and at
another by that of Lev\*ts Cevel Pellifer, be alive, and
will apply tfo Jamis Barry, of Baltimore, ta will
hear of something highly to his intereU. Or (hoald
he be deceased, any person who will addref; a certi
ficate of hisdeati ? properly authenticated, will be re
warded with trotcnty dollars, by applying as above.
Mr# Pellifer is m-ppofed to be some where iathe ftite
of Maflachufetts.
august i. - ... V _
TO BE LET,
And immediate possession given ;
A Large convenient, well finilhed houle, No
215 High-street, laUly occupied by Doc
tor Wiftar, with Coach house and Stables
Enquire) of WILLIAM SHBAFF,
Na 168, High-street.
jufy ."I
This Day is Published,
AND FOR SALE BY J.FENNO, I ig,CUESKUT-S'' REET
' AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the brigin, progress and prefeat {late of
French aggression, with a Iketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
States, and some reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the laTt of April in the pre
sent year, by a Mtmberofthe House of Represen
tative*. $ june I r
The Office of the Committee,
Appointed to faperinteod thu building of the
Frigate to be loaned to the United States, is remo
ved to No. in street—os which those gen
tlemen who have not already came forward with
their fubfcripti»os willpleai'e to take notice.
ROBERT RITCHIE, Sec'ry.
august 7 . i
To be Sold,
An elegant and convenient House,
In ChefnutJlreet, next door totbe Bank of North Ameiricd.
THE List is thirty by one hundred and seventy
ijight» The House has been thoroughly repaired
within a few months. 'Apply to the Printtr.
august 8 §
FOR SALE,
A F ARM on the roai leading to State Idand,
within four and an half miles of Philadelphia,
containing 45 acres in the higheA Hate of cultivation
land. There areon the premises, *new frame Houle
and Barn, with an excellent kilchen garden, contain
ing a great number of frit Trees.—lmmediate posses
sion will be given.
For terms apply to
Thomas W. Francis,
julyiß, No. 98South Third ilrectf
Pcnnfylvania Hospital,
9 mo. I, I7>B.
NO pirfon with an infeiftious disease, can be
admitted into this house; it is therefore tar
neftly recommended to the citizens, not to fey
'or 1 ring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
with the prevailing fever. Several persons having
been sent her# improparly, is the roafon of giving
this caution a
By Order of the "> FRANC IS HIGGINS, Steiu'd.
Sitting Managers, i
" " ~N OTIC E,
Bank of the United States,
Augujl 18, 1798.
THOSE persons who have Notes Of Bills to
pay at this Bank, are informud,
j That regular Noticts will be put under a seal
, ed cover direiSed to the refpeitive payer and
' lodged in the Post Office every Monday uatil
the return of the Citizens.
C. SIMPSON, corner.
P jwguft 18 3**^
Public jfclf h hereby Given,
I "'HA T i'i'ouolai; n.d-1" fealedcovers, will be r
received on tW behalf of the United States
until the twentieti day of Oflober next, by Jo- w
liailia.i Jackson, Jlq. at lloKuil, Mifiachufctts, j
Tenth l iaucis, £l'q. Philadelphia, Puinfylva
nia, auj John i3waiElq- at Bait more, Ma-H
r)land, fur I'upalyiog the following articles of ™
cioathitu;, for the army of the UniteJ States, a
vii.
FOR INFANTRY.
8,448 Hats, 1
5C4 Serjeant Coats
5C4 ditto veils
i,soß paiis do. woollen overalls
ditto do. linen ditto
»,oi 6 tfitto lhiris
164 Mttticians coats
7,680 Privates coates
7,944 ditto
15,888 ditto woollen overall! .
15,888 ditto lmett ditto
31,776 ditto Ih.rts
33>79l pairs ol Socks *
33,/2t pairs of fiuies
8,448 iWksof black leather *
8,448 Itoi k c.alps
8,448 bUr.keta. (
FOR CAVALRY. ' r
6 iHulicians coats
26 berjeaat coats
26 ditto vefU
JO4 ditto shirts
348 Privates coats
354 duto veils
1416 ditto Jhirts I
763 pair of Leather breeche* 1
760 pair of ltock.ngs " 1
700 pair of boots 1
, 80 JStocks of biack leather 1
380 Stock clafpj :
3SO Blankets. <
ift. Every article lhall be made of materials,
equally good, and in form, or falh.on, conform- i
ably to patterns for the latwe, sealed with the -
seal of the VYar-Ollice, and which will be de- t
posited with the several gentltmeu, empnwered 1
to receive the piopofale, as above mentioned. 1
2d. Sworn lnfpedlois lhall be appointed ob
the pjrt of the United States, to examiae and
determiec upon the I'everal articles aforefaid,
whto the laase ihall be ready for delivery, with
full power to rejeft every article, which lhall not
equal, in goo. I net's of materials, or to be made
conformably to, the faftiion ot the llandard pat
tern for the fame; and no allowance (hall be 1
made, for any article wh?!h lhall be rejeiifeu by 1
thsm, for the causes aforefaid.
3d. The proposals inuft fpecify the number of
articles, and their kinds, which the party is
willing to furtu's, togeiaer with, the lowelt
prices for immediate payment in money, and al
io the prices, 011 the loHjjelt term, or terms of
credit.
One third of each, and every ef the several
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on
the fifteenth day of December, one third ou
the fifteenth day of January, and the remaiuing
third 011 the firlt day of March next; and the
public will not be coi.fidered a» bound to receive
iny of the aforefaid atticies ofcloathing, which
lhall not be ready for infpeclion, and delivery,
at the periods agreed upon.
4th. The cloaihing aforefaid will be received
in the Cevgral llatei, at the places, and in the
proportions following, viz. One third part of
the whole at Springfield, Mafi'achuletts, one
other third at Philadelphia, llate of Penal'ylva
nia, ot at Lamberuan, iUte of New-Jersey, and
one third at Maltimore, Maryland.
sth. No contrast will be made, for a lef s
number of each of the aforafaid articles of
cloathing, than i« reqjiiite for a company, vi 2
FOR THE CAVALRY.
4 Serjeant Coats
4 ditto vests
16 ditto shirts
1 Mulician Coat
58 Private coats
59 ditto veils
236 ditto shirts
63 flosks
63 flock clasps
126 pair of leather breeches
126 pair of Hackings
126 pair of boots
blankets
FOR THE INFANTRY.
70 Hats
4 Serjeant coats * '
4 ditto vests
8 ditto woollen overalls
8 ditto linen ditto
16 ditto shirts
2 MuficUns coats
64 Private coats
66 ditto veils
132 ditto woolen overall*
132 ditto linen ditto,
a 64 ditto Shirts
280 pair of Socks
280 pair of Shoes,
70 Stocks,
70 Stock Clasps,
70 Blankets.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of Ww.
War Department, ?
21 ft Sept. 1798. >
Arrived in the Jhip Pcnnfylvania, Cast. Wil
liamson, from Hamburgh, now lying at
Chef.er.
\ Number of.GES.M\N SERVANTS, men,
il wcimen.boyn arid girls, atnongfl whom are
Giinfuaiths, Carpenters, Turners, Taylors, Blick
fmiths, Gardeners, Mafo«s,'Coachmen„Huntfmeii,
he. &c. whofc time of l'ervituoe is to lie difyofed
of ou board the Ship, hy
G URN Em SMITH.
august 2S
liengal Goods,
CONSISTING CF
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz CotTas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzziaas Tookereys
Eliabad Baftas Wrought Vluflini, ,
Long Drawers
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit k>r the European markets
* m. so,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee In hsglhoads
A few pip«s of very old and very choic* Madeira
WINE
For Sale, on reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
No. 12, DocU-ureet.
July 14 mw *tf
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made to the Treafn
ry of the United States, for the rcriew.il of the
following Certificates of Six Per Ctt.t Funded
Stock, Handing in the name of Jci* Carioutll, of
London, the said Certificates having len loft on
board the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
' Falmouth to New-York.
No. 3072 I Cert, for acoo dolls.
i 2964. I do. JOOO
l 10,577 1 do 3000
% IVtlltngs & Fi anfis.
Philadelphia, augujl 30.
For Sale.
THE SußSc'Hin**, intending to decline thd
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, InArnn^nts,
Th: (hop isfle.gfcit. Ji».u|, fuffici
wholeßle and
any ia the city, ner of Walnut and
Second ftrccts. The or any part of the
Stock, will bo fold, as will befl suit the purchal'cr.
The terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
IVi a has For Sale,
VVeli calculated for the
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
lout, oi an tafy draught of water, rigging in
good order. •»
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in eomplete order fortne umber buGaefs.
$3? Alf persons indebted to the late firm of
GtlJtlrwait M Baldwin, IV. B Goldtb-wait, (hU
tbinait \sf Metre, or the fubferi er, are earnestly
requeued ta make speedy paynmnt to ,
jAMIiS MOORS, j»i».
HKgUSt §
Ship is 1 Insurance Broker,
Sobfcriber, encouraged by the advice
0/ 1) it. friends, offers his ferViCie to the pub
lie as a Ship and Insurance Broker. H« i>ro
pofes to buy and fell vcflels and every thing re
ining thereto—afiifi matters «f v, flVls and others
■ n entering and clearing at the Custom House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Inst
ance and all other mercantile MCotmti, and have
ou hand the necessary Blanks »nd Stamps.
Papers in foreign' languages translated, ami
information given in general mercantile matters
From a knowledge gained by long expericnce
of every brfrcjs of h.ifinefs he hopes to be ul'e
ful to those who please to favor him with thi>ir
commands. S/UIVEL EMERY.
Philadelphia, august 24th, 1798. J
Chy Colnaiifliouers' Office,
■August 30, 1798.
IN pc*f«»nce of an ordinance of the Seleii and
Conimoa Councils, palled t he lid day of Miy i
1798,
Proposals in writing will be received by the City
Conin.iffion. ri lor one month from the firtl of Sep •
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
y j ar, to caiiimenm the lirft day of Januajy next,
die following public property ol the city
The wharl and landing on Vine street,
Also onSaffafras,
Mulberry,
And High streets.
Cheliiutan*! W. hiut flreets, Drawbridge, with
the Scale and Fish houfw, Spruce, Pins arid Cedar
streets.
The Cellar under the City Hall.
The lavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with tka lots contiguous thereto (except so much
thereof as {hull be occupied by any buildings erec
ted for the ufc of the Collector of tha Tolls, or be
Mceffary for the toll gates.)
A IV.ited meeting oi the City CommilGoners will
We held at the City Hall every Tuesday morning *c
ten o'clo k, durpg the present epidemic eoim
James C. H Saml. W. Fijher,
No. Ar.ch-st*eet,
Have Jor Sale
200 Catks best refined Salt Petre
Belt London Window Glass from 10 by 8 t»
12 by xo
Ditto GUl's Ware in Casks assorted con lifting
of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
Glasses, Goblets, &c.
ALSO,
A few Balesof Ued, White and Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons,
june 27 aawtt
To is Sold, at private Sale,
A Plantation and Ti all of Land
CONTAINING 14; acres, situate in White
marth townfhip»in tliecounty of Montgom
ery, about 15 miles from Philadelphia, and on
:he public road leading from Plymouth by the?#
Broad-Ax tavern toward Horfham, and about
one qiurier of a mile from said tavern,, also
about the fame diftauce from the Skippaekroaa
and about the fime dilance from the late resi
dence of James Monis elq. deceased. It is
bounded by lands of Anthony Morris esq. Ja
iob Keiff and DeuVeiier. About ten acres are
good watered meadow, about 15 or 20 are un
der ctever, and about 35 acres are well timbered.
The buildings on the above farm consist of a
two-fiory (tone dwelling-house, a large Home
barn and Hone spring-house. There ' 8 »!fo on
'he premises a young orchard of about 150 ap- a
pie trees. * '
This farm has great advantages of water, a*
there is a:i excellcnt'never-failing stream palling
by the house and barn, in such a manner as tc
fupply the fame as well as every field with a fut»
fieieut quantity.
The spring over which the fpring-lioufe is
built, is excellent water, and is also very near
and convenient to the dwelling-house.
The situation of this place is healthy and in a
good neighborhood, and is near to several dif
ferent places of worlhip, and within the dif
. tance of half a mile from two grift and faur
mills, r.lfo near lime-kilni.
This farm will be fcld together or divided in
to two parts, as may suit the purchasers. Also
a two-itory stone house with a barn »nd carriage
1 house and lot of land situate on Chcfnut-hill. I*,
is 1 very high and healthy lituation, andcom
inauds a very extenßve and beautiful prolpeA—
' Pofieflion of part of tke house may be had im
mediately.
, For further particulars apply to Henry Pratt,
No 94 North W.iter-jlreet Philadelphia, or to
CHRISTOPHER HETDRICK,
on CJbtfnut-Hill.
Chefaut-hill, august 14th, 1798. lawtf
advertisementT
WHEREAS James Cummino S3* Co. late of"
the cit/ of Philadelphia, nurchants, hava
' affigied over all thrir eff»it.-., real, personal and
mixed, to ths tubferibers, lor the benefit of all
their creditors, who ft all fuhi'cribe the said affigii
nient within I:Jf months froji the date hereof,
a NOTICK IS HEREBY GIVEN, toallperfons
who arc indebted to the said estate, that they are
required to make immediate jwyment of their rcf
pedive accounts, to tha Affiances, at their office,
No. 62, Dock fireet, in failure whereof anions
will be militated for the recovery of such debts as ,
are not discharged accordingly.
John Travis, "J
i
C s Cornelius CorUrgys J
n aw|u«oß mwftiD
TO BE SOLO,
THE time of an indcatcd Dutch Servant BOY,
who has ten years to ftree. He has had the
small pox an J mealies, U active, hearty and strong,
;md fit fwr house worl; in town or country, lor
further information,, osugiure of the y#int;r.
*»&««» 4 f