* . ■ ' i* • - v ■ f v .V-..: • #
#a?ette»"!)«®ltlrteD Daily Ad&trtiser.
Number i 7 7 J
JUST ARRWED,
the b«igGayofo,capt.Bir St. Matin*
A quantity of Srn.T, At . th ]
of an exccellent quil*ty Q f
A few gxoce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty cafka Vinegar ths
And the ICOI1 COI
» a. |
No a i, Little Aster llwt, South. C
of the Sub- f,
fcriber., on Walnut street Wharf,
[t
?/ porter, 6to 14 d°z each I*
London particular ? Madeira' Wines (c
India market ) . 11
Tenenffe do. in hoarheads and P'P« S
Old Port.do. in. lihd«.
temotv CUwtbotttti , At <
6 cnrefflf 'o;n~hi.»s D'rmties, Mufljnet* &c. t]
afforred for the Weft In£ia market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and io coils ot cordage
Writingfiates, ink Hands aadpreffes
10 purcheoin Jamaica rum
I hale feamin? twiae
X6O bundle* fteatbi*? paper
THE BRIG m '
4' A M AZON > <
For Skle, or Charter. c J
Wcllm & Qriffith. ■
.. , tath&f.tf J ,
april 7 .
foFsale. w,
195 boxesi white > H ava nnah Sugar
107 do, brown 3 Fr<
aoo Hides .
Will V Tanked to morrow, at. lUings and Fran- Gr
cis's wharf, from on board thebrigAv ive, 1 Ilc
iarn Williams, matter. 30
And may take in immedi- go
Tank-wry ately a f ttT discharged. to '
P V y e hu Hollingfiuorth & Co. |jh,
march 30. ____
For Hamburgh, C £
THE SHIP Q,
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majler, an
Having great partof her cargo en
gaggd.—For freight apply to "
JeJe & Robert Wain. \
February 16 . 5 to
~ goods
Forwarded tp B A L T I M ORE,
CVER LAND
Via Elkton, on reasonable terms—by
Levi Hollingfivorth & Son.
may 14 £*£_ _
OX BEEF.
ieo Barrels ) of B ef of best quality, put 1
jo half Barrels Jup with carefor long voyages. J
100 Barrels of Cqnneaicut Pork. a
Barrels of CflSntfllClt Tong«e». rt'oiaWi. V
* WINIiS. J
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port -]
30 half calks of Sherry y
30 Cists of Lisbon c
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent (
quality. • t
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR, (
100 Barrels of Condemned, and ,
ao Boxes of bell Durham Mufta". 1
For Sale by
John Skyrin, 1
Landenberger's Wharf.
eodtf
may 4
A Country Seat.
TO BE LET for the summer i«af<«i or by the
rear, the greatsr part of a large House, in
a hitth, healthy situation, above the eight mile
stone, on the Germantown rdad (occupied only by
a newly married couple)-with (tabling and con
venience for keeping a carnage For futtt !" P""
ticulars, enquire nt Caspar W. Haines, m Ger
mantown, or the fubfcrlber, on the prem.fes.
piantown, o „„ EK -, AH HUNTSMAN.
law3w
may I. -— —
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank of Pcaufylva
nia, for such Han of a Banking House,
accompanied with feSions and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Directors. The bu.ld.ng is
not intended to exceed 60 ftet front, or 100 feet
in depth, and to be so planned as to admit of tts
being made fire proof. It is rcquefted that the
plans may be sent to the Calhier ot the Bank, pre
vious to the firft of June next.
aprjl 19- ' tuth^'^
For Sale,
,„Hl SUSSCaiBER, NO. IO.eHUMU- STREET,
11 Cases of Carolina Indigo,
•Which will be fold on reasonable terms on a fcor
credit.
Robert Henderfon.
April » mW&S4W
VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No- Hi Front-Jlreet.
have for sale,
eoHogfheads Virginia Tobacco, of Fredenckf
bure and Falinoii'h Jnfpsflions.
30 Ho P (heads ditto of Richmond mfpeilion^
may S.
FRESH T E A.S.
MR- CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, laat he
' has opened a
» TEA WAREHOUSE
v At his Circulating Library, No. 7 ? North Third
street, where he will be happy to execute then-
Orders for fine-flavoured
imperial, hvson,
YOUNG HY3ON, V TEAS,
hyson-skin, , a V
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
On moderatetcrmo.
Coffte,-Chocolate and Loaf S,, S :^ &hf
april 13-
PHILADELPHIA: EVENING, MAI 16,
Colledors Office,
I'a.LADEt.rHiA, May 15, 1798. Fn
FOR SALE AT ~r ÜBLIC AUCTION,
At'the Cufloin House, on Friday, the fifteenth
of June, 1798, the following Merchandize,
which rem-rin in the Custom House fjtorts more p rer£
than nine months, unclaimed bythe owners or mn
consignee? thereof. _
(X H) eight half faggots of Steel j\]
(T B) aoi one bale Girihweb
L) a quantity ef Steel
Wfcp ene cafe Lamps | Nort
C&.C one cafe Bobbin ing t
(\V) one fm»U box Mediiine Tow
Arv 403 one matted Dutch Book< 5 " ftreel
I & C one keg Herrings
(W) one/mail box of samples of Buttons ate
1 " 3 three bales Girthweb assist
L I, J Wei
[V H} ao» one ditto ditto
[N] job ene ditto ditto - g xe|
(No mark) eight jar* Olives a U (
(ditto) one bu/idle Slates »
(l SI one small box Locks As
Will be fold for Cash, turn
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY art
the eleventh day of June next, at the M«f- elcv
chants' Coffee house in Philadelphia, if forti
not previously disposed of at pri- bar
vate sale, the
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS OF seen
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the ilate of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath RandolpH' in the
ftite of Virginia,
7003 acres at the hea&of St. Simon s Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamahi rivers, ad
joining the ci.mmoQJ of the town of Brunfwick.
4 1000 acres 011 the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm M Intofh, John Howell, &FerdinandO'Meal. r0
15000 acres <in Great Satilla, aojoinitig lauds of K
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
4400© acre« in Bath county, on both udef of 1J
Green Briar River, adjoining landfot Jac&bWar- 1.
rick, Daniel M'Col'mm and John Dille/, including h'J 1
3000 acres of prior fur veys. w
4ICOO acres in Bath county, on the eatt fide 01 co ■
Cowpatlure River, and on both fides of the wag- not
. ! gonroad leading from the warm springs to Staun
ton, including JOOO acres of prior futveys j
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu- rea
chanap River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of ets
Cowpaflnre River, on the waters of fold river, and j u l
ot Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph hu
Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres ptior surveys. tm
The Georgia lands will be fold in tracts of one
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities r '^
and trails abov* described. 1
r Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts aD
of the above mentioned land, will call for that t
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41, >n
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
_ to either of the fu'jfcribers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —■ Chefaut street.
B.R.MORGAN, cr
' No. 41, Arch street. D
JEREMIAH PARKER, di
No. 9, North Eighth street. R
m,f. t - d " I
" advertisement. t
ut XTOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue „
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold j
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on 0
firft Friday in June next, part of a trait ot -
■ Land called STRUOC.I.F,
ty, and all the reft of the Real EUate ol Jofbua
Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine month* credit for tqe one
half rf the purchase money, and fi'.teen months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcha- n
Bt fers giving bond with security i> r the fame, on in j
terefl, from the day of sale —All creditors of the ,
faia Joshua Townfend are also again notified to t
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the lid
Hay of December last, that being the day of the
firft f!iL wILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Trsftee.
" may .4 ' f ' ,w <
- Real Ettate for Sale. ]
AT the Merchant's Coffee House on Monday ,
evening the twenty-firft instant, will be
in fold pursuant to an order form the Orphan s
'i' 6 Couit. A three story Brick House, twenty-four
b y feet front on Great Dock-street and forty-two
on * feet deep ; together with the Lot twenty tour
>ar- f eet (jy eighty-two feet deep, now in the tenure
? r " of Edward Pole, being partof theeftate late of .
Rev. Gilbert 1 . S'nowden deceased. The terms
will be made known the time of Sals, by
~ Isaac Snowden, Admmftrator.
Edward Pole, Auftioneer.
iva- may 3. dicdeots
% tor Sale,
ig is Tvuo Ct'ifi'S of Scotch 1 hreads,
,eet Well assorted, and entitled to Drawback.
the Apply at No 5, South Water Street.
pre- m y" I ——
For Sale,
f e The cargo ofthebrig American from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
ET Caraccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
fl, or No. Hi, South Fourth Street,
april S3
'• Furnished Chambers —loLct.
w "-HOSE Gentlemen, Members of Congress and
1 others, wifhirg to engagje for the next fefiion
ef Congress, Chambers, fnrnifhed in a mo<icrn
„ style, and in a very pleasant and central part of
1 * , t h e city, may hear of them by applying at the
office of this Gazette. cciw may 10
Madeira Wine.
ickf- Aew pip CS of rsmarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate use, and at a reduced price—For
'• f a ie by JAMES YARD.
iIL. may 2 dlw
FOR SALE,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, 3tc. fiWteon
at he Wsfter {lreet, between Mulberry an-i Saflafras
Streets, containing in front on VVitcr ltreet fi«-
ty-foar feet, and containing that breadth eaft
-h[tA ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
their <outh thirteen feet fix mches. These houses
have the convemer.ee of a pubi c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide,and area very defirablefit
ualien for a a merchant, 60111-fatTor, or others
,S, who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
;e rms for ralh. For further '.qformat-on apply
to the printer.
f april 5 m&Wtf
By John Fenno, N a - 119 Cbefnut Stree,
A, Mining School, Sci
Froan fix to eight o'elocil, is " cd at
Thi Neiu School Roon., J 1 ®
B-rk of Ns. 147, in Chef nut Stmt, for th« Edu- of (h ;
cation of Boys and 'V ouog M«n in the Engliih and CTl |
French Languages, Writing, Accounts, Com
may 14 I'V 7 ] *' IA M.n
iViILITARY CADKMY. s^tc
THE Public are mod rtfpeinfuWy informed,
that a Military Academy '•» opened in the
Northern Liberti«s in the house foruttrly Belong- Jt , an
iiw to J"l>n >l»ftcrs, esq. between the GerflUn-
Town and Frankfort roads, North Secand
ftreet continued —,
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 6oth British regiment of Foot, artd
i afliftant Engineer to the Army aiSling in the
Weft-Indies. Phil
Where gentlemen will be taught the matitfal Se
Exefeife and made completely acquainted with afou
all the duties of officers, nnn-commiffioned of- teis
Beers and private soldiers in camp,, garrison and «r i
Quarters ; the forms of regimental and field re* }Jfv
turns, detachments, rollers &c. &c also the
art of drawing plans, feflions and geometrical (h ' ,
elevations, the elements of tactics, guanery aiul plac
fortification. —A fubfeription lift is left at the j- a j^
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and. vote
the outlines of the proposed regulations may be in f
seen. The situation is extremely well adapted drni
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are offic
set apart for the purpofc. " , , r h ° er
N. B. Gentlemen fram the Country boarded
in the house if required. • w j,i
may to. dtwaawim cc(r
Military Colours. mo:
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms, per
No. so, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street, £L
oppofije the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other ot- j
namental purpofas (in a manue# peculiar to
r hhnfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
' which for elegaitee of d«Gg*, truth and beittty oi
f colouring, fleatnefs and masterly exacotion, fc*s In
. not been equalled by George Rutter and Co. adi
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with all pofiible dispatch, on themoft
reafonalde terms.
'' Ornamental Painting, Sighs, Fire Buck- r-i
sets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that J
d superb stile of modern alegance peculiar to G. R.) en
li but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar- m
till master of hi? proleffion. _ on
e Mr. Gullager, from a numberof year's expe- ot
•s riencs in Eufope and this country, flatters himfelf j
that profeffional talents, punfluality, and reason- I (h
s able demands, will meet the entire approbation of (h
it those gentlemen who wi'lpleafetocallat his Paint-
[, ing Rooms. §6w may j.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and -
country, wilhing for a supply of Colours and 1
Drums, painted in a masterly manner, will no 1 F
doubt feel themselves obliged for th? kind can ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf- j*
flattering advertisements, but exam ne the work 1 p
executed by both parties —-—One view will fatK- 1
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ue ing of gooi silks by G, orge Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contracting talents 1
on of Henry Fraiiey. at Germantown. may to. I
°J- Military Colours, , 8
ua PARTED ON iV/./f—bt I
George Rutter Co.' ,
:hs Portrait and Ornafnent/il Painters, j
a " TN a stile which will mdure the hardships of the]
1:1 A weather without injury, and wh eh for nestnefs J
;^e and exaditude of colouring cannot be furpalTed in j
t0 this city.
;; f j FLAGS AND DRUf<IS
t^e Furnithed with difpatch i »n tha moil moderate I
terms. 1 ]
e. Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs, '
fire-buckets. See. accompliihe.d in that fupc-b file '
of modern elegance, whieh, Mr. Rn.ctr pledges
himfelf from 20 years experience iii this city will
y meet the entire approbation of hit friends ani the j
public.
In the Military Line,
w0 A variety of specimen's may be. seen at their I
our Painting Room, Norris's Court, back of the NiW
„„ Library.
> o j. may 1 d6w I
r NOTIC E.
HAVING observed an advertifemert .of C.
Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of *>ur pro- j
feiftonal abilities, we to request the public l
not to be imposed upon by. foreign artists ; Imt to I
decide upoiT the merits of sach by a comparison ot l
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost J
universally adopted by tfeem to invalidate the ta-J
c k # lents ©f ellablifhed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrofling th3t byfipafs which |
, t their profeffional knowledge in no wife entitles I
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must I
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut- I
ed by us will convince them of our great fuperio- I
' rity over Mr. Gullager ih every branch of por- l
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thentctf- 1
City of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to th> I
, t felf-flatterir.g advertisements of Mr G.
v' Any person wiHiing a supply of FLAGS and I
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and]
°t. Co. Norris* Court, or Henry Frailet, GcrmaE- I
town. » §6w mzy 8. 1
:ffion A Country Seat to Let.
•' Cr i f \T EAR t^lc ? r a n kfordroad, about four and a I
? lN half miles from Philadelphia —the situation
e remarkably pleasant and healthy. Immediate
—— polTefiion may be had Apply at No. 144
South Stcond Street.
1, fit ™ay 4 3tawtf I
3 For New Tea Warehouse. !
iw No. 39, South Front Street,
opposi+e posT-irnci.
THE Subscriber
and the public, that she hasopened a Store for
te on the sale of all kinds of thai, imported in the late
"afras arrivals at Bolton and Philadelphia, (as under) and
rt sis- which flie is determined to fell o» reasonable terms,
east- It will be her con lUnt endeavour to give fatisfadtion
the to those who please to favor her with their custom.
oufes Country stores will Cad it their «dvant*gc to deal
Ijoin- wi h her, as Ihe can at a moi-aent's notice afTort
i!e fit- cHemi any quantity wanted, and will allow a reafon
thers cred ' c °n approved notes,
oods " Imperial, Hyson, Young Hyson, Souchong,
. 1 Hyson SJtin, and fiohea —.tlfo, .Coffee aud Loaf
. ' Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
twtf april it s&t<i,6w
Schuylkill Perma ridge.
TTfll Sdbfcrihen b 1 named
1 in the tellers I 0 ..o^ernnr
of ihisCommopweal f. ' ■' . 4 . t 'JtGm*
cral AlTemb!/ «f tbe »'< th «
Cowpai'V—hirfbv R'W no'"e «i;rWilble to the 3J
fe«.,».i of the Itid law, th,t they «av< appointed, and
heiebvr rcquefl a meeting of the fc.Jfcnberj at the
! State House in tfce City »f PWiWelp'ia, oil the thirty
firft day of this inftatrt May» t«n o'clor*k m the
forenoon, fm the purposes meotionet! in the (aid 3d
feQidn, which i, hereafter publiined for tke itffoiin
■ation of the Stockliolders.
Richard Peters,
. John Perott, _JS
. _ -, MUitkevj WConncll,
William SbtDjf, BY
- T George Bicipant,
t, William Nittmh.
Philadelphia, id Mm-, 1798,
Seftion 3; And be it further enußed by the authority
afortlkid, Thqt the fix Perfeinsfirll named in the Let- b.
ters I'aier.t, lhall as soon m conveniently may be as-
ter fealingthe fame, give notice in tWn or more pub-- g -
Papers iri Philadelphia, One whereor lhall
bt in the German Lan R ut S e of f lime and place by '
th.>mtobe appointed, nor thirty days tfom
the time of issuing the firft notice? at wbtch time and W»>
place the said fubferibers ftsll ptnieed to organise t,he Ma
said Corporation and fhalj bv a majority of M»
votes of the said fubfcribeii byfrtHot, to be dcliveted j
in Person or by Proxy, duly auihoriaed—one r'reh- |Qt
dent, twelve Dirrflors, one Treafu er, and loch other | Q tl
officers as thev shall think nccellarf ro conduct the bu- | p; n
finefso' the said Comoin v for one year, and until o
pher officers (hall bechofim, mike such bye
laws, rules, order) and regulations, not inconfifte t
with the laws of this Commoiiwe Ith, as ilwll be ne- *•'.
cclfarv lot the well ordering the affairs of the fatd corn
pans -• Provided always, that no person (ball have
more than fifty votes at any e'eftion or in determining
any queftio" arising at such meetings whatever num
ber I f (hares he or (h be enttled to, and tbrt each
person (ball be entitled to one vote for every (nare Ql
bv bim or her hdd nder th fa'd number. - cOl
A Perioti m
.Properly qualified, by app' ytpi of '
tkis Gazette, may meet with 4 Situation as a 5
' School Mailer,
I In a Country-Town, widen a day's rid- of ?.«l
adeiphia., ,Eot , t
mar 11 3 -
i TO BE LET,
And PoJJeJfton given Immediately.
- nnHAT well known stand called, Small's
* X ta/ern, fignof tbe Black-horse at the east
) end of Bedford. • This ftmd is attended with
" many advaniagea ; there are two houses, the
one stone and the other frame adjoining each I
" other, well finifhed and upon a very convenient
plan ; the {tabling new and large and a pump at f
the door—besides, there'are but two taverns in
; f the town. The terms and time of leafing will
be made known by application to
Dr. John Anderfon,
of the t»<wn of Bedford.
may n. " w6w _
,d The following Certificates of
10 I FUNDED DEBT OF THE UN IT ED STATES
'f OTANDING on the Books of the treasury; were
, J forwarded for London hy the Ihip William
7 Penn, Capt*in Jofiah, which hath been captured, c
. and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
3 r64. Ba. Deferred debt, in the name or Rev. S
1 Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in fornwall, 1
ltS Great Britain, dated June 1, 1797. Certifiaate
- "No. 10,07 a.
j 8°»I. !?• Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of _
I E4ward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
•I Briura, dated May 30, tiff- No. IJJ96-
J j6iC. 50. Deferred Debt, in ;he name ot WTU
iatn Manning, ofOrmfby, in the county of Nor-
j )c 1 folk, in England, dared July to, 1797-
,rJ 10199- . ,
■ j joißj. 72. Three per Cent. S'ock, in tne nar«e
in I qf Jarinet Mathew, of Upver Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated October 31, 1797*
L llßjo.
ate I For the renewal of tbe above Certificates, ap
I plication is intended to be made at the said office of
IS, j jheTreafury of the United Stajss,—and allper.
.> K foP' concerned aredefired to talc notice. |
' ALSO— 1M TH£ same VaSSEL,
?il 1 1314 ' Storkof the Batikof CThitcdState? in
lu thename of Willjim Mjuning.of Ormfby, cAun
-1 ty of Norfolk, Ei gland, viy. Three CertifitatCs
for five fharts each, dated January I, 1797.
No. 15981, ajoSi, 25984-
ic ' r I For the renewal of which,application is meant to
I be made to the said Bank of the United States, —
l and all persons concerned therein arc deffred to
' take notice.
JN. KAUGHAN.
j Philadelphia, may 4.' ,6w
C. I
iro- The following Certificates of Shares
l>lic 1 T N the North American Land Company, (landing
tto 1 on the Books of said Company in the name of
II ot I Daniel Lifter, of Hackney, in the cuunty of Mid
10ft j dlefcx, England—viz. No. aijl, representing
ta- J 13096 to 13105, ten (hares—No.tijo—l3o66 to
ciT - 13075, ten (hares—No. 1149—13056 to 13065,
*ich tenfhares—No. H48 —*1150910 11518, ten (hares
itles j —jj o . 1147 —11471 to 11480 —Amomnting to
null I Forty Shares, were forwarded/or London by tbe
cut- I (hip willia-n Penn, which having been captured,
rio- I said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for tfie r«
P°r- I newal of which, applicaiion will be made to the
ctf- I Board of the said company.
th I Daniel Neal Lifter.
' I may 1 *d6w
and j The Copartnership of the Subfcfibcrs,
naE- I TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
\ Joseph Davidson Ssf Co.
I TS this day dissolved by mutual consent, all those
nd a I A having claims againll fsid firm, are deGred to
itioß I render their accounts, and those indebted to make
liate I payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
-144 I rifed to fettle the affairs of '.he concern.
I JOSEPH y. MILLER,
tf I JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
I N. B. The Stores at the corner »f Market and
, J Fourth Streets are now to be let.-—Enquire of Jo
| e ph Davidlon.
I april a 6 w&slm
FOR SALE.
:late I QEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum-
I and I O mer Retreats, three and a half miles from.
:rms. I the Court Houfi;, and ,611 the Frankford Road ;
£tion | the lots will ?>e made tofu t the purchasers.
(lom. j Those fitnatinns are confrdered in of health
■ deal I beauty and elegance, eqtial to any near the city,
tffort I and the road known so be fife and good at all
afon- I seasons of the year. The title indisputable—A
l .plan of the grounds is in tbe bandiof the fub
-lonS' j i'criber, who will make known the terms on ap
k I plication to him at his office Nd. 124 South
I Fourth Street.
!. ABRAHAM SHOEMAZKR.
5w I may i.
JUST RECEIVED,
0" RO V r0 R T-A.U-P KI>N C
AuJ FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICMRS,
no hhds. CofFee
46 tk'CC" do. N
100 barrels do
-100 bags do
110 hogtfieadrof MiiftoYado Sugtr
80 barrels'of do.
40 ojf 'Mo-laSes
4. bass« of C«ttt>n
Lmm, 2 of Cocoa .
WILLINGB & FRANCIS,
Penn-ftrtet.
mai*b I*. j
' T" FOR SAL?,
BV THt subscribers, No. jii'Pervn-flreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John; Green, commander,from. Eengai,
Consisting </
Baftfts, of various qualities afltl prices,
Coflaes. " Punjum Cloths
Sanahs di>.
' H'j,Tihum9 Charcorai* Dorea
Cloth Tanjibs
CJiintr aiwt'Ciircocs MulimiH .. -
Majno<Jdys Checks
iltfaharigonges l*atnaHkf«r
j-Wnghittis Mulmu dew
I Giftzenas Bam^nnoes
I Gitrrahs Siflcrfoy
I Pidiafcoes CI»op»a Romals
-Sifcatchys Soo-y d<>.
Gillie Romals Persians of various cob
Mock Pulicats
»ao tons SUGAR
93,000 lb. PEPPEN •
Wiliings & Francis.
The Piece Goods *
: Of the Ganges are now open to 'ale at that
'comljOodious store the north weft corner or
M«*etand Fourth-dreets.
: .Also—A few Batfi v( Mfldrafs Hkfs. of ete
, ua«u pitterr.s and best colcntrs
S February 8. "
Ross isf Sim so*,
HA*H ?OR SALE,
22 bales fupericr Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firfl quality
A few bales Baftas, Colfaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
* Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
, Jamaica and") RUM
Bengal J v .
e april 10 5.
H ;%r LANDING,
lt From on board the Ship Sally, from
n Calcutta,
" AND FO* SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBE*,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
i• 30 bales low priced piecs Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 \ $" -
Js "* JUST ARRiV iiD,
In the Ihip Phcenix, capt. Grice, from Amsterdam,
m a boxes Siamois I hhd.Hogs Bridles, ill
j 3 do. Haarlem Stripes quality
' 3 do. Checks, No. % 1 do. do. li do.
, v# 9 do. Sealing Wax 3 do. Glue, and
11* Cream Cheese in prime n chclts firft quality Red
lt g order for exportation Craft
AL.SO,
of Just: Received, via Baft'more, &e.
: at bales brownTicklenburgs and hempen Linens
TO l aics Gorman Ozaabrigs
ill- 30 bales brown Rolls and Hcffins
>r- 1 j balps Polifti do.-suitable for coffee and cottoa
1° bags.
20 bales empty Bags
V 1 bale bleached Hefians
ct > I package Turkey Yarn
so.
54 pieces Vladrsfs Handkerchiefs
1 eheft Tapes, No. 13, is, &c.
l P I package cotton Lindfeys
!°f 250 boses VVindovv Glaft, 7by 9, 3by 10, 9ty
cr- ii, 10 by il, 14 by 16, 16 by 18, &c.
I 20 chests plain and ilowered half pint, pint and
quart Tumhleis
> ' n 20 chefls Looking GlaJTe;, aflorted
un * 4- large elegant do.
30 travelling Liquor ?afes
97- 1 chelland 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
tto A cargo of prime Mahogany
'•— Several Anehors, from 4 to 12 cwt.
Ito 10 pipes old Port
A'few quarter calks Sherry (iitimtto
'• 60 cases White f' 1
" 200 boxes Claret J
"CS 300 fir.all boxes RuHia Soap
lir.g 3° tierces Rice
50 f 50 calks Roll Brimstone
lid. 40 kegs yellow stone Ochre
:ing 1S ' cr K' Pearl Barlty
6 to * hoglheads Madder
1 chclt assorted Quills
arcs 6 bales Writing fitper
rto 'O thefts Slates and Pencils
the 20 trunks Mens* an 4 Womens' Shoes
red 60 Silver Watcher
• rs 1 hhd Coffee Mj'ls
the » do filhing and blocking Twine*
2 chests Nuremberg I'oys
A few Demijohns
A quan ity of (lone pickling Pots
w 4 boxes of Hnglifli Chariot and Chariot Harness,
with plated ornaments in fettsfor », 4,
ers, or 6 horses.also Whips, Spurs, &c.
The above Goods are generally entitled to draw
back, are suitable for the Eall India market, and
will be fold at reasonable prices and at the usual
hose credit, by
1 to ' PRATT & KINTZING,
No. 95, North Water-flreet.
tho " April 16. t&fnt
FOR SALE,
an d whole or one half of a PLANTATION
( Jo- A on the river Belaware, between Burlington
and Bordenton (two miles from the latter), con.
m taining about 4CO acres ; 60 of which are bo'tora
meadow, and 100 wood land; there are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (etclufive of mea
dow) but will exceed S 1 - the next ; and any quan
ilim- t jfy of manure may be had for the upland Irom the
rontl meadow without injury.
>J d ; An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
•s. — and 70 hoglheads of excellent ctder ; a dwelling
:alth house with a barn, liable, granary and other ce
city, cefTary bull iDgs go with one part in cafe of a di
it all vision ;■ on the other are no improvements, but hat
—A one of the most elegant situations f»r a house to be
sub- seen on the river. The land is of good quajity,
lan suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
outh tojmarketby or water. For terms apply to
the owner on the premises.
R. Thimas St-John.
■*t f M.y 5 vodtf
[Volume XIII.- Aji <2saszttz.
P HILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, Mat 16-
The Address of the Inhabitants of the Borough
of Harrijburgh, in the State of Pennjyl
vania
To mi PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
Six,
AT a time, when the minds of men are
so intoxicated with ideas of .reform, and vi
sionary schemes for meliorating the condi
tion of humanity, as to be fatally inattentive
to their own feeurity, and regardless of
confederations which have, hitherto been
deemed tne mo ft sacred and obligatory ;
there may be a propriety in the declaration
of fentimrnts which, in more fettled times,
might at leaftbe thought fuperfluou6. From,
the generality also of the pradice of e*
pressing approbation of the measures of
government, at the present crisis, motives
might be attached to tbe omiflion of it, lef6
honorable than a disinclination to intrude
upon the managers of the public concern?,
or a reluftance to suppose that, in the re
fillatice of outrage and maintenance of na
tional independence, they would not receive
the support of the virtuous and unprejudiced
part of the community.
Under theft iinpreffion&, the sub
scribers, inhabitants of the borough of Har
rifburgh, beg leave to declare, that we are
too highly sensible of the prosperity we
enjoy, tote willing to relinquish it without
an tfiort'for its preservation ; and that, in
our wishes for the happiness of others, we
have not loft fight of our country and our
selves.—That, in our opinion, the conduct
and designs of the French Republic (fcarcelv
aggravated or made mare apparent by the
profligacy of their avowal) are such as to
produce alarm and indignation ir\ every
breast which feels for the honor and happi
ness of America, and to excite the appre
hensions of pvery man, of whatever nation
or country, who may place a sense ofjuftice,
morality, and piety, ameng the ornament# of
his nature and the blessings of society
That, under this persuasion, we hold it wife
to be prepared for every event, and shall
therefore most cheerfully acquiesce in such
measures of defence, as may be adopted by
you, Sir, and the other Branches of the
Adminiflration, at the present momentous
period. And as your patt condud has in
variably commanded the refpeft and appro
bation of every ingenuous mind, so we have
the most perfea reliance that, in future, it
it will continue to be influenced by the
fiiireft motives and cleared perceptions of
the public good. We beg you to accept,
our cordial wishes for your personal welfare
and happiness. \
ANSWER. ]
To the Inhabitants of the Borough of Harris- \
burgh, in the State of Pennfylvanta.'
CEVTIEMEN, j
YOUR address has been prefentled to me j
by Mr. Hartley, Mr. Sitgreaves, and Mr.
Hanna, three of your Representatives in J
Congress.
I know not which to admire most, the [
Concifencfs, the Energy, the Elegance, or
profound Wisdom of this excellent address. .
Ideas of reformation, and schemes for J
meliorating the condition of humanity, ;
fliould n?t be difcoHraged, when proposed ,
with reason and pursued with rhoderation; ,
but the rage for innovation, which destroys
every thing because it is and in. t
troduces absurdities, the most monstrous, c
merely because they are new; was never
carried to such a pitch of madness in any ]
age of the world, as in this latter end of the f
boasted eighteenth century, and never pro- a
duced effe&s so horrible upon fufFering hu
manity.
Among all th« appearances, portentous 0
6f evil, there is none tpore incomprehensible g
than the profeflions of republicanism among
those who place not a sense ofjuftice, mo
rality, or I'iety, among the ornaments of
their nature and the blessings of society. ' p
As nothing is more certain and demonstra
ble than that free republicanism cannot exist
without these ornaments and blessings, the
tendency of the times is rapid towards a
restoration of the petty military despotisms ; r
of the feudal anarchy, and by their means a q
return to the savage state of barbarous life.
How can the press prevent this, when all f
the presses of a nation, and indeed of many ac
nations at once, are fubjeft to an imprima- w
tur, by a veto upon pain of conflagration, a
banishment, or confifcation ? j, t
That America may have the glory of d,
arrelling this torrent ofljfcrror, vice, and f r
impoftnre, is my fervent wish j and if f-nti- cc
menW, as great as those from Harrifburgh, ac
should be found universally to prevail, as I r j,
detfbt not they will, my hopes will be as
sanguine as my wishes. n ;
JOHN ADAMS. j ei
Philadelphia, 12th May, 1798. ct
- fu
To the President of the United States. or
The Address of the Inhabitants of the 0 f
County of Lancafler, Pennsylvania. „ r
At this alarming crisis in our political ex- wi
iftance, we approach you, Sir, to express th
our cordial approbation of the measures a ]]
adopted by the Executive for the preferva- C ;|
tionoftheneutralityandpeaceof ourcountry. ; n .
The firm reliance wehaife had on your pa- C p
triotifm and attachment to the genuine m ,
principles of liberty, as guaranteed to us by p 0
our excellent Constitution is, (if possible),
flrenghthened and enl rged by a policy so p U
congenial with Ihe chara&er of the C hies ap ,
Magillratp of a-£ree people. 01J
Whatever may be the real or imaginary 0 f
pretensions of an ally which derogate from a
flat? of amity, the diftindl'on and honour of an ,
the aggrtfiing nation, require an inveftiga- w h
tiun of the supposed of friend- n j t
/hip upon the basis of equality. A demand we
of a prelimir.aijfcjfubrnifrion acknowledging (be
the commifikdref an offence—a stipulation dec
* for pecuniary .corapenfation anterior t» the
difcuffiou of thecaufcsof difcord,are debase
ments oi national dignity, totally incom
* patible with the sovereignty and indepen
dence of a nation.
HcJJing these to be fclf-cvident truths,
1 which men n*&fcd in the bofotn of freedom,
—— can by no*>' permit to be gain-faid—
'X" W e feel oJ' forcibly drawn to acknow
ledge to yf Jiankfulnefs for the earned
endeavor ve used in your diplomatic
intercom jtivate and nouriih harmony
are »' Republic: For the sincere,
v) ._ candid an qnivocal manner with which
you have „ifp]ayed the fair and upright
; ve principles of the United States in the pro
posed negociation with that Republic: And
'en r y° ur nnm i" at i°n (a» Commissioners to
France) of three of our fellow-citizens,
on energy of mind 3nd love of country,
es k- aTe ena ' s ' e 3 them to resist terms of concilia
-3 l' ''Ort degrading to the national charaQcr and'
dishonorable to the government
of unhappily the United States be driven
' nto hostilit y by the injnftice and insatiate
cfs am ' s, ' t ' o n ef the French Republic, we trust
(j e r^at » *hat benign Being, whose aid in our
i keenest diftrefles we have fa frequently ex
,e' perienced, will again become auxiliary to
the aims of freemen, honestly contending
ve or liberty and independence of their
country. We aflure you, Sir, far ourfelyes
personally, that, in such a conflid, no con-
fiderations of ease t» oureftate's or fafety to
lr our persons, shall deter us from the exertion
of every jrower we poflefs in the support of
government.
We fervently implore the Supreme Dis
poser of Events, to continue your health of
ve body, fortitude of mind, and mature wis
dom, that yourmay be impowered in your
arduous station to lead us through this
j v perilous zera, with honor to yourfelf and an
accession of glory to the American name.
-y ' n^ant > the President returned
the following Answer :
f To the Inhabitants of the County of haneajler,
in the State of Pennsylvania.
GENTLEMEN,
THIS refpedtful and afFe&ionate address,.
from the wealthy, industrious and indepen
fe nt Pfoprietdrs of the county of Lancafler,
U is as- boaorable, 3s it is sgreeable to me, and
is returned with my hearty thanks.
1 he attention yau have given to a de
y iftand of a prtliminaiy fubmiffien, acknow.
[3 'edging the corumiffion of offence, requires
an oblervation on my part. The conftitn-
tien of the United States makes it my duty
to communicate to Congress, from time to
time, information of the state of the union,
and to recommend to their consideration,
measures which appear to me necefTary or
expedient. While in discharge of this duty,
I fubrtlit, with entire resignation, to the re
sponsibility established in the constitution,
I hold myfelf accountable to no crowded
head, or Executive iDireftory, or other so
„ r eign power on earth, for the communica- <
tions which my duty obliges me to make ; :
yet to you, my Fellow-Citizens, I will I
. ' ret 'y fay, that, in the cafe alluded to, the 1
honor done, the publicity and solemnity <
given to the audience ef leave, to a disgraced I <
minister, recalled in difpleafurc for mifcon- <
was a fludied insult to the government '
of my country- c
The obfervatioFis made by me, were mild,
' and moderate, in a degree far beyond what t
the provocation would have juftified ; and i
J if the American people, or their govern- 1
ment, could have born it without resent- t
ment, offered as it was in the face of all the v
1 world, they mud have bees fit to be the t
tributary dupes they have fuce been so r
; c °oly invited to become. e
As I know not where a better choice of t
Envoys could have been made, I thank you
for your approbation of their appointment, n
and applause of their condudL c
Iu return for your prayers, for my health I
and fortitude, I offer mine for the citizens *
of Lancafler in particular, aßd the United h
States in general. tl
JOHN ADAMS. a
Philadelphia, May ith, 1798. v
At a meeting of a refpedable number of w
the citizens of Elkton and its viexnitv in
Cecil county, Maryland, on the 7th of F
May 1798, ; r
Resolved Unanimously, That the follow- ci
ing Address beprefented to thePrefident and fr
Congress of the United States. p,
LIVING under a constitution organised
by the wisdom of our country, as the bed tl
adapted to the attainment of those objects g<
which are the end of all rationalgovernment. gi
A cenditution alike inimical to anarchy and tii
hereditary power, every public functionary tl;
deriving authority mediately or immediately cc
from the people, we deem it fufficient, to th
command our support of the measures of cc
administration, that the competent autho- m
rities decide. T
Well fatisfied that the citizens of the U- o\
nited States are firm in this principle, we an
learn with indignation that, in a foreign an
country an opinion prevails that, the mea- cc
fures of this government mav be defeated re
or tmbarraffed by tiie confllftiog opinions fei
of individuals. To repel this idea so dc- da
grading to Americans and to evince to the wi
world our determination on that point, we th
think it proper to declare that, we will by da
all the means in our power, support the de- ou
cifions of the constituted authorities: Hold- he
ing it our duty as gaod citizens to fuffer no th
opin on .of oifrs, cn the fubjedt of their to
measures, to impair our zeal for their sup- bu
P orU th
The unjust aggrefjions ef the Freneh Re- frc
public upon the commerce of this country of
apd their unprecedented conduft towards
our Envoys call for this public declaration pii
of our sentiments. bu
Anxious for the peace of our country trj
and the diminution 9f the public debt, arc
w-hild we are tenacious of the honor, dig- me
sity and commercial rights of the nation,
we are happy to find that the conduft of fen
the Piefidenc of the United States in his en- M;
deavours to adjust ;hc existing differences anc
the j with Fiance has been foch as to merit and
fe I receive the cordial approbation of all the
m- | real friends of America,
rn- | Signed by order and on beha;f of the
I meeting, by
hs, j "Toll,is Rudolph 1 '
im, Levi Hoftngfwoithjun.V Committee.
- Davidjun David. J
w-
ell To which thePrefident returnedihe following
tic ; ANSWER,
ny To the citizansof Elkton and its vicinity in
re, ! Cecil county in the ttatc of Maryland.
:ch | GENTLEMEN,'
;ht Your Address to the President and Cou
ro- grefs of the United States, has been pre
nd fented to me, by your representative in Con
to grefs. Mr. Matthews.
ns, Under a eonftitution, organized by the
•y, wifdotn of the peddle, alike inimical to a
ia- narchV, and hereditary power, every public
nd fun&icmary deriving authority mediately or
immediately from the pipple, there cannot
en be a greater absurdity in theory, than an
ite opinion in a foreign country, that the mea
jft fures of this government may be defeated or
ur embarralTed by the confli&ing opinions sos
x- individuals, nor can there be a greater af
to front, or more injuri®us reflection cast -on
:ig representative governments ; for if the prin
:ir ciple were well founded, the necelfary con
:es sequence would be, that the people are in
n- capable of supporting a government of their
to own choice and fabric ; and that govern
an ment mud be hereditary, in order to givi it
of ftreugth, to combine the public opinion, to
draw together the wills and forces of the
if- people. Your zeal therefore to repel this
of idea so degrading to Americans, is natural
if- and well founded.
,ir Your declaration that by all the meass in -
is your power, you will support the decisions
in of the constituted authorities is in the cha
racter of the best of citizens.
There is not one of you, my fellow-citi
:d zens, more anxious for the diminution of
the public debt, than myfelf, and a well re- '
r, gulated finking fund may one day be re
sorted to, as a powerful engine for that pur- r
pose, but I fear we fliall find a necessity of f
s> . postponing this salutary operation in its full i
i- extent to a time when the honor and fafety i
r, of the nation lhall be better secured than at *
d present.
Your approbation of my couduA is very '
precious to me, and deserves my thanks. t
JOHN ADAMS,
s Philadelphia, May 14, 1798. d
If NEW-YORK, MAY 10. £
0 The following is the ADDRESS forwarded
, by the committee appointed by the Citizens as-
i, fembled at Hunter's Hotel on the 26th ult.
r 10 the President, Senate, and House of Re- n
, prefentatives of the United States. cl
A number of refpcdable citizens of this P
, place, aflembled together on the evening of 0
1 the 26th inft. confidering-our present fitua- f
. tion, with refpeft to the republic of Franee
- as forming an important Crisis in our public P
; affairs ; and feeling,the warmed attathment tl
1 to the eonftitution, and an urifhaken confi- la
: dence in the constituted authorities of our P'
r country, conceived that, at this time, to al
i evidtnee that attachment, and that confi- J
- dence, could not but be ufeful to our com- [j
t mon interests and acceptable to those who a
direst our public councils. bt
> therefor* appointed us a committee P<
: to convey to the Executive of the United re
1 States, and to both houfea of Congress,
. their approbation of the measures pursued
. by the Executive, in the late negociation t 0
: with France ; to assure them of their unaba- th
■ ted confidence in our rulerr ; and of their cc
1 readiness and zeal to forward and support El
every measure which lhall be dire&ed for m
the interest, and the honour of our country.
In communicating these sentiments, our m
minds were naturally led to a review of the 9r
conduft of our government towards the tic
French republic ; and in that review, it is
with pleasure we observe that we have be
held it, on every occafiot*, performing with
the most perfeft integrity and good faith, fl
ail its engagements to that country and e- „
vincing its regard by every ad of friend ship
in its power, confident with those duties lo
which it owed to other nations.
While on the other hand, the conduft of P r
Fiance to this country has heen a scries of "J
insult, depredation, and menace, more be- tn
coming conquerors and masters than the th,
friends and allies of a free and independent tal
P e °pk- pr
Under different pretences, as variable as
they have been futile, (he has mfulted our thl
government, in the person of our chief ma
gidrate , flie has attempted to sow diffen- We
tions among our citizens, and to-separate th.
them from their government j (he has in the
contravention of the faith of treaties no less cit
than of the laws of nations, difpoiled our ri S
countrymen when engaged in a lawful com
merce ; and she has impriloned their persons. C ° l
To our mild remonstrances and our pacific ™
overtures, for accommodation of differances tirr
and restoration of former friendlhip, sh e has citi
answered only by frefh indignities.- Not '' fe
content with humbling our country by the a ' M
refufal to receive an ordinary Ambassador, P"
lent to explain and conciliate, she has dif- f
dained even to treat, in the usual forms, °!
with the extraordinary Miniders, who in pre
the persevering fp,„t ofpeace and accommo- me
on were afterwards deputed ; as if anxi- ll| e
ous to accumulate disgrace upon us,' (he P ro
held out to them the mod humiliating terms, ,
they were told that merely to entitle them IT
to a hearing their country mud become tri- t0 ,
Ik 1 !!! ' a 3 " Were im P lie, % menaced beli
that-the American republic would be erased wh
from the lift of nations, if the resentment tuli
ot f ranee was not appeased ! J ! "
Of such conduit their can "be but one o- the -l
pinion. To such terms, Freemen can crivt ,
but o U e reply. To you Fathers of our cL- De,
try it belongs to give that reply • an d w - e P
are purfuaded it w,ll be such as becomes A- o{ 1
mericans. t(ir
For ourfclve* and those whom we repre- fcre
° Ur Vlrtu °us and independent chief
Magi ft rate, we fay, that while the wisdom Si
and moderatton m which he has conduced 1
and | tile late negociatioti with !• ranee, haveraif
the | ed him in our edeein, his Patrrotifm and
unfliaken. firmnefs have rivetud him in our
the confidence.
To orr fellow citizens in the Senate and
♦ Houfeof Representatives, we declare, that
EC. conscious of the re&ifude of «ur country's
conduft, and deeply imprefTed with a sense
of the wrongs flie has fullained, we are de
ing termined to support at all hazards, such
measures as (hall _be deemed necessary to
ria maintain her honor, her Freedom, and her
Independence.
Jacob Morton,
3U- Ebenezer Stevens, I
re- John Gozine, > Committee
}n- JoJtah 0. Hoffman, 1
' N Mas Evert/on,
•he New-York, April 30, 1791.
a- *
ilic /titfwer to the Citizens of New-Tori,
or Gentlemen 1
iot Your address to the Prefidenc, Senate and
an House of Representatives of the United
?a- States, of the 26th of April, has been tranf
or tnitted to me, by your Committee,
of Among all the resolutions that have been
if- taken, and addresses, which have been pre
cm fentedat this important crisis, I know of!
n- none which have expressed sentiments more '
n- just, appr*obation x and confidence more entire :
n- or resolutions more patriotic and decided,!
;ir and consequently none which will give more
n- fatisfa&ion to the Puhlic and to the Legi
it Hature, or which has more cordially and de
to fervrdly,my thanks. JOHN ADAMS.
Ie Philadelphia, May Bth 1798.
ai CVN G R ES S.
11 -HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
is
1- THURSDAY MAY 3.
Mr. J. Parker pieferited the petition of Thom
i- as Blanehard, praying for l«ave to fund a Loan
if Office certificate. Referred to the committee of
the whole who hat this fubjedt under confidera
.. 'ion. 1
] Mr. Sitgreavet presented an address and me- !
" morial from the citizens of Bristol, expressive of J
'J their approbation of the measures of the Exec- '
II utive in our negotiation with France, and pledg- j.
y ing fhemlJfves to support whatever measures t
t Hall be adopted by the government.
Mr. Imlay presented an address to the fame r
purpose from Stafford in New-Jersey. t
Mr. Thomas presented a flmilar address from i
the inhabitants of Chester. g
Mr. Sprigg one of the fame kind from Blab
denfburg ; and c
Mr. S. Smith one from Baltimore to the fame
effe S, signed psrfons.
j Tiiefe addrews were referred, as usual, to b
the committee of the whole oil the state of the v
Union. v
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of claims- 8
■ made a report on the petition of Edward Wroe, J'
chief mate on board the United States brig So- "
i phia, who was wounded in carrvingfome arms t!
r 011 board said brig it Lifboo, by the bursting of ?
a blunderbuss, which occasioned one of his
hands to be cut off. He prays relief. The re
port was unfavorable, arf3 was concurred in. a
Mr. Baldwin sailed up the resolution from n
the Senate, authorizing Thomas Pinckney, esq. n
late en voy extraordinary in Spain, to receive the d
pretents offered to him by the Kings of England a ]
and Spain, on his departure from those Courts, K
which having been read, Mr. B. said, the fame
fubjedt had been referred by this house to the few
left committee, and he was inftru£ted to report Cl
a resolution similar to that from the Senate ; c<
but the Senate having sent down this, he sup- h
posed it would be unneeelTary to report another
refoiutinn. i 1,.
Mr. Sirgreaves hoped the house would concur ,
in this resolution.
Mr. Macon moved that it might be referred li:
to a committee of the whole ]f Congrcfs an- h<
thonfed the receiving of presents from foreign Si
courts, they mail also, he supposed, go into the f u
mlnHUrs" ° U B ivin £ to foreign bt
It was committed for to-morrow. w
Mr. Sewall moved the house to go inta * com- ' e <
mittee of the whole on the state of the union, in o{
order to resume the consideration of the refolu- av
alien# been re P ortcd 011 the fubjett of W
Mr. Otis wished to propose a resolution to the [y.
House, before it resolved itfelf into a committee •
of the whole on the state of the unioa, as a fub
ftitate for the firft resolution, reported by the
committee for the protection of commerce and th
•he defence of the country. It was to the iol- to
lowing effefl :
' Resolved, that no alien born, who is net at to
present a cuzen of the United States, Jhall here
after be capable of holding any office of honor, ~
trujl, or profit, under the United States." co
. IV . r ' Venable did not think the house were au
thorized to enaft such a principle into a law. If pr<
ntniwff 11 f ' ll °J ht 10 be considered as a sot
propofit.on for amending the eonftitution. If it w ii
was thought necessary by gentlemen to amend bt .
: he conftit*tion in this way, he should not ob
ject to going into the fubjeJfc After foreigners ,
were admitted as citizens, Congress had not the tll(
power to declare what should be their rights wii
the eonftitution has done this. Foreigners must
therefore be re used the privilege of becoming res
rights of citizens. n \
co.nd h,° ns r h ' d U° idea t,lat this proposition .thi
it v" a proposition to amend the
eonftitution. If the house had the power to m, i
amend the naturalization law, and to extend the out
citizenfVn ,h DCe neC , e f ary t0 entitle an a,i « to ing
citizenship, they could certainly extend ii to the cor
life of man. The idea of citizenship did not f nr
GrrT R P , oWer of holdi "g offices. In j
reat Bntain no alien rf'as ever permitted to
hold an office ; he wished they might not be al- COU;
lowed to do it here. [The Speaker said, this
was not the proper time to argue whether this I
proposition ought to be considered as an amend- he
ment to die eonftitution. The committee of con
the whole would report upon it as they thought
Mr. Venable did not objefl to the resolution and
being referred; but thought it ought to go ra- be
ther toan ordinary committee of the whole than wit
b°lLve °C l bc :as he did tha
beheve Congress hid the power of faying men I
who were entitled to hold offices by the consti
tution, lhall not hold them.
mot| on for reference wi» put and carried he L '
there being for it 48 votes. whi
The House then resolved itfelf into a commit- ]ow
tee of the whole on the state oi the union, Mr. aga
Dent in the chair ; when j
Mr. Otis moved to.postpone the consideration *
of the refo.Miou formerly under consideration 0 k;* (
tor extending the time of refidenceof aliens be- I r J
fore they should be entitled to citizenship, i n or . I { J°}
T . tak « U P relolution which he had pro- ! ben
poled, and whic> had been referred to this com- j
m c * this
The queftiuD was put »nd negatived Jf to if. witl
•aif- The question then returned upon the r nc r
and made by Mr. Otis yesterday, to am<*id the
our resolution by adding words of the fame to
with those contained in tht resolution refe I
th,i» morning. rred
Mr. Macon said, whether it would be ?
hat or bid policy to adopt a regulation of this Vj
-y's he would not enquire, because he believed'th
•nfe I'refident and' Senate Could al ways -. n •
de- such men * s they thought proper to office P K nt
Jch man is 1 citizen, he is eligible to office agreeahl,
to the conftituuoaal rule, and that rule cortM
her T a f' tered ' llW " 'k the chofe t ; '
ner elea a foreigner as a member of the Lesiflat, '
if he had been a citizen seven vears C r
could not fay he should not be eligible T
might, indeed, make the time of refirlence 7
entitle a foreigner to citieenfhip f 0 l o i l} , as t
vent him in that way from holding a f eat
Legislature; after a man is a arizen h,
must be entitled tp.tha fights of. a citizen '
Mr. Otis said, gentlemen could certain]* j
the confutation for thei^|ye # . and draw thX owf
conclufio. s from ' fcgfflelf had Bnt I
fnr4>eft doubt as to tKe eunifflutionalHy of T a a
log alienMn the way proposed. He believed tf>«
a congress Saving the power to establish an uni lor «
ed. rule of natural.zat.ou, could, if they thought pr^
nf- per, make a refidenceof 40 or Co vnr«
an {h " utd f> e ent "led to cituenlhTp 7 ,
which would Extend to the whole life of , p *rf
and prova an sffecftjal cxclufion. If cotw,
re * had a right to exclude r oreigners altogether wL
of , citizenihip, any modification of that right wai
)r e ceitamly within their power, and would he an
ir( , advantage to aliens, for which they oueht to be
d, f"' 9 " 1 - ™ ere w ° ul<l > ,"°'hing iti this contra,
ire Ja the constitution ; for it was always acknow
• '"^ ed that "' h f re * n abroh, t= powej-may h e ex „„
poled, a conditional power may alfb he exercifei.
le- What advantage he afk«d, wa, derived to thiT
oauntry from giring aliens eligibility to office?
1 he people of this country were certainly equal to
the legislation and admmiflration of their own '
government, compFifing all the aliens who are
now becoma citizen,. He had nodoubt but many
aliens would become very valuable acqaifition, to
S . thls co " nt sy 5 but he had no idea of admitting them
into the government. He did not wish to open
the door to the mtngues of other countries thi,
way ; since weknow th'ercare countrieswhofe chief
n . attention is paid to the obtaining of influence in the
ln COHc erns of the countries over which they
of wife to have dominion. And he cbutffce it poffi.
a _ blc that perlons might be furnifhed by such a
country to come here and buy lands, and by that
e . means, in time, get into the government. Great
Britain he said, was very careful 0£ the avenues
, wh,ch led to her liberty in this refpe<ft. Aliens
' were there excluded from holding all places of
■ honor, profit or trull. The situation of America
heretofore was differencfrom what it is at present.
It had not only been thought good policy iR times
e past, to encourage foreigners to coir eto this coun
try, but atfo to admit them into the legislature and
n important offices. But now, said he, America is
growing into a nation of importance, and it would
1- be an objeA with foreign nations to gain a.l influ
ence in our councils; and before any such attempt
e was made, it was proper to make provifios agaiuft
it ; for if the time should ever arrive when anutn
-0 ber of persons of this description had found their
s way into the legiflaturfe, a motion of this kind
would of cosrfe be very odious. If however,
s _ guntlemen were of a different opinion, and think
1 the object would be better accompliflied by extend
. in g the Vefidence of aliens, he should not obje<ft to
s that course being taken, though he thought the
f one he proposed perfeftly within the povi cr of th«
houfi.
Mr. Sitgreaves wished, thst in attaining
an objeft in which all seemed to concur, they
-1 might avoid any constitutional embarrass
. ment ; and this it was allowed might be
j done by extending the time of residence of
aliens so far, as to prevent them from ever
' becoming citizens, by which means persons
_ who could not be considered as having s
common interest with the citizen* of the
country, would be effeftually excluded front
holding offices in the government.
The amendment of tjia gentleman from
MalTacKuretts, he believed was liable to an
objeftion of a different kind. It proposes
that no alien born shall enjoy any plaee of
honor, profit or trust under the United
States. It vras a doubt, which had been
suggested (and not yet been decided) in the
business of W. Blount's impeachment,
whether a member of either branch of the *
legislature could be considered as an officer
of government. This question wauld be
avoided in the other mode of proceeding.
With refpedi to military employments, he
supposed it would be improper to exclude
aliens from them, and there might be other*
in wh;ch they might be properly employed,
of which the Prelident and (enate would be
• the proper judges. The great objeA was
to prevent such persons from being elected
into either branch < f the legislature, or in
to the offices of President or Vice-President
—offices in which the sovereignty of the
country is materially concerned, and in
which, of course, foreign influence might
prove mod mischievous. He hoped, there
fore, that the present motion would be
withdrawn, and that the fame objeft would
be attained in the way he had mentioned.
Mr. Oil's withdrew his amendment; and
then all the three rclolutions were jg-reed to,
without a diflenting voice.
The committee rose, and reported the
resolutions. The two firft were concurred
in ; but on the question being put on the
third, ' . ,
Mr. N. Smith said a foreign government
might do an aft tantamount to war, with
out declaring it, yet according to the word
ing of this proposition, the citizens of that
country could not be removed. He there
fore moved to amend the proposition ad
ding the words " being-native citizens of any
country the government ivbereof Jhall be al
war with the United States."
Mr. Sewall said, the only objection that
he had to this amendment arose from the
consideration that congress alone had the
power of deciding on the question of war,
3nd he could not therefore fee h«w it could
be determined that any nation wai at war
with us, until the declaration was made by
that nation, or by congress.
Mr. Otis wished his friend from Connec
ticut would admit of au amendment which
he held in his hand, in the place of that
which he had offered. It was in the fol
lowiug words : "cr Jlall authorise hojliiilies 1
again// the United States."
Mr. N. Smith had no objfftion.
Mr. M'Dowell thought this motion more
objeftionable than that of the gentleman
from Cotine&icut. It ought to be remem
bered, Mr, M'D. said, that inducements
had been held out to foreignfrs to come t»
this country, and many of them had come
with a view of becoming citizeos of thi*country, and many he believed were as good
as any amongst us Out of refpefl to these |
foreigners he Ihould not with to place them
in the situation which this amendment went
to place in them ; because it might be said
hoftilitie were au horiftd when no war was
declared, and these people might be treated
as if the nation from which they came was
at war with us, whin no war existed. It
had been said our population was now fuffi
cient, and that the privileges heretofore al
lowed to fereigntrs might now be with
drawn. In fovie parts of t'le country, this
might, in some degree, be the cafe ; but
he knew there were other parts which want
ed population. From this conCderation,
and as he did not wilh unneceflarily to dif-.
trefsthe minds of foreigners who had taken
up their residence amongst us, he should
vote ai; inft this am* Wnt.
Mr. J. William! -wn' persuaded, that if
this pr-ipofiti'in palTe<l no good citizen need
be afraid of being disturbed. He had no
objection to this resolution with ut the a
tnendment, nor had he any particular ob
jedfcion t"> the amendment. ;
Mr. Rutledge was so far from believing
that this amendment would check the emi
gration of foreigners, he believed it
would encourage it. Foreigners same here
to live under a good government, and the
more fecute the government was made the
greater would be their deCre to live under it;
and he believed greater security could not
be given to it, than was proposed to be giv
en by this amendment. It was wilhed to
veil a power in the President to fend out of
the country, perfonswho were natives of a
country with whom are at war, or who
may -have authorised hostilities against us.
in faft, that in the situation of things in
which we are now placed, the President
filould hive the power of removing fueh in
triguing agents and spies as are now spread j
all over the country. What said Mr. R.
would be the conduft of France, if in our
situation ? In twenty four hours, every
man of this description would either be sent l
out of the cotfiitry, or put in goal, and !
such conduft was wife. Was there noth
ing, Mr. R. nfked, to admonish lis to take
a measure of kind ? Yes there was. A
gentleman from Kentacky (Mr. Davis) had
said, that a person was in that ftatedeliver
irig commissions into the hand of every man
who was so abandoned as to receive them.
Other means were also taken tojajienate the
the attachment of our citizens ; a d are we
still, said he to fay, we will not fend these
persons out of the country until a declara
tion of war is N made ! If these persons are
Suffered to remain, France will never de
clare war, as (he will consider the residence
of these men amongst us, as of greater con
feqaence, than the lining of our sea-board
with privateers, or covering our coasts with
men.
(To be continued.)
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May ij.
v At the late -le&ioii in Conne&ictit, the
Hon. Jonathan Trumbull, Efq was almost
■unanimoufTy elefted Governor. No choice
being made of a Deputy Governor by the
freemen, the two Houles of the Legislature
appointe d the Hon. John TreadweH, Efq
to that office.
ExtraS of a letter from a gentleman in
Connecticut, dated May i 2.
'< I havejuft returned from Hartford—
It does one good to fee he unanimity of the
great body of people in Conne&icut. It is
impossible to describe the firmn<fs of this
stale in its attachment to the government &
the honor and independence of the United
States. Fa&ion is silent—An advocate of
Trance is hard'y to be fonnd. We have
50,000 fighting men, and not a traitor a
mong them."
BALTIMORE, May 14.
A pilot just come up, informs that he
yesterday f;iw the Montezuma in tlte mouth
of the Patuxent.
NORFOLK, May 8.
By a gentleman who arrived in town on
Sunday from Cape-Francois, and who came
paflenger in the (hip John and Jane, Captain
Adams, to Baltimore, we are favoured with
the following particulars: that the new Go
vernor, Hedonville, arrived at the Cape the,
19th April, from Santa Domingo; that the
Administration continued their depredations
011 everv kind of provisions on board of Ame
rican veffelsbound to their ports, giving them
in return their Administration notes ; that
Touffaint was hourly expeited at the Cape,
from his unfuccefsful expedition against the
British pofieflions, in which he loft between 5
and 6000 men ; that Barney had received, by
the la ft frigates from France, his promotion
to the rank of Vic* Admiral;-that Raymond
and Pascal are appointed Delegates to repre
sent them in France, and were about to em
bark on one of the fafteft failing frigates to go
home.
B R AND T.
'the Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
FROM CETTE,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's ftrest
wharf.
&",? ST'} Choice Brandy
Provence white Wine,- in pipes
Hazlenuts and Filberts, in sacks
A few Almond), Raisins, &c.
fpr Sale by
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
, 2*bo, t oQO lb?. Java Coffee, in faefcs
Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
' Mace and Clove*, iruborys
,Aj»o hhds. Jamaica Sugar
'}o do. do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipes, hhds. and qr. calks
.Madeira, London particular, in pipes, very
. superior
april 18. diw eotl7M
To be Sold,
THE. time of a (mart, aftive BLACK GIRL,
car. ten years of age, and has upwards of eight
ears to f:rve. For particulars, enquire at Wal
nut corner of Dock lireets, No. 46. .
may 12. 3t
„ i
Xhe (^asette*
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, Mat 16.
ExtraS of a letter from New-Tori dated yes
terday.
" We havejuft learn' the unpleasant intel
ligence of the capture of the (hip Merchant
off the Hook, by a French pirate—She
left this but a few days ago for Briftol.—r-
The fame pirate has captnred the (hip Hoi
land for London, left this Sunday —also,
flaip Thomas bound to your port from Li
verpool or Bristol, and was in chafe of tw.o
more." €
[The effeAs of these atrocions afts of piracy,
cannot be Itr -ngthened !-y'com:i;erit, If the naked
1a.51 doe- not r. use u» from"' ur torpor, nothing
can ; and the ronfltry it in already fallen an
unr (ifting prey to the rapacity of these freeboot
ers on the human race.
On the receipt et nsws of such tremendous ca
lamities, our attention is irrefiftably drawn to the
canfe of th;fj disasters—The faction who have hi
therto obftrufte'd and paralised every measure of
protection and defence proposed in LORgrefs, mull
now change their tone, or they will be juflly
chargeable v.i:h the 'nng train of evils resulting
from these dire 'l, impoverilhi-.g and cruel hottili
ties ]
CONGRESS.
Yesterday, the Rsufe of Representatives
of the United States were occupied during '
the whole of the fitting, in debating whether '■
the following proceedings of Captain Mag
n'en's company of Grenadiers, at Portsmouth,
in Virginia, which were presented to the
house by Mr. Josiah Parker, should, or'
(hould not, be referred to the committee of j
the whole on the date ot the union. The
qneftion for reference was finally carried 46 J
to 43. The debate, with the yeas and nays .
upon the question will appear in course.
At a meeting ot Capt. Bernard Magnien's
Company of Grenadiers, at the Muster
Ground on the Commons of Portsmouth,
the sth of May, '9B, the following proceed
ing took place :
Whereas we venerate the " Declaration
1 of Rights made by the Reprefentativesof the
good people of Virginia, alfembled in full
and free convention, on the 6th day of May,
1776, which rights do appertain to them and
their pufterity, as the basis and foundation of
government."—And whereas, it was declar
ed, by the said convention, among other
things, " that all power is veiled in, andcon
" fequently derive.d from the people ; that
" Magistrates are their trustees and servants,
" and at all times amenable to them.—
Wherefore, in conformity with those rights,
as expressed by the said declaration—WE as
freemen and real citizens, think it a duty we
owe to ourselves, our country and posterity,
to speak our sentiments on the present alarm
ing crisis of our affairs—and accoidingly we
give it as our opinion,
That we view with extreme concern, the
attempts that are evidently making by men,
high in authority, to widen the breach be
tween the United States and the French Re
public, by holding up to the good people of
these states, the late unworthy propositions of
certain unauthorised persons at Paris,, as the
act of the French government, when, in real
ity, the face of the difpatchss cannot warrant
any such concltifions.
That we cannot but view the man, or set of
men, as inimical to the rights of the peo
ple and the found principle of their felf-go
vernment, who shall endeavour, by any falfe
colouring, to give the (tamp of authenticity to
that which is in itfelf extremely doubtful and
prafeieraatieal : and who shall, by such
means, drive to involve lis in <ill till.uni
ties ot a war with the molt powerful Republic
on earth.
That without reference to our well founded
complaints, or to occurrences frefh in me
mory of usall, nothing can be moreabhorrent
to our feelings, than the idea of being by such
a war, driven into an alliance with a nation
which isat present unhappily under the guid
ance of the 1110 ft foul and corrupt government
upon earth.
That in the administration of a
free government, is absolutely npceffary to
the fafety and well being of the (late, and
therefore such eftabliftiments, as will (urpafs
in point of expense the pecuniary resources
of the country, mult inevitably lead to the
failure of public credit—to national bank
ruptcy —and consequently to the definition
of the Federal Government—than which no
thing, in our opinion, could be more calamit
ous.
That as " a well regulated militia, compo
" fed of the b9dy of the people, trained to
" arms, is the proper, natural and fafe de
" fence of a free date," we view every mea
sure which leads to the establishment of (land
ing armies, and expensive navies, as contrary
to the spirit of a free goverement, and by no
means so well calculated to ward off foreign
insult and invasion, as to invite domestic sub
jugation, slavery and ruin.
1 hat the meafu/es taken at the lad feftion
of Congrrfs for the defence of our common
country were wife and patriotic. Eighty tliou
fand of our fellow citizens and brethren of the
militia being, in our judgment, fully com
petent to the defence of our country against
any foreign nation whatever.
That-in a cafe of actual invasion from a
broad, or of domestic infurre£tion at home,
we hold it to be the duty of all good citizens
and militia-men totally round the standard of
Government, and to defend our rights a
gainst all encroachments whatever ; and
therefore we pledge ourselves to appear arm
ed a;id accoutred at any moment when our
services (hall (for the purposes above menti
oned) be required.
Ordered, That the foregoing proceedings be
signed by Capt. Bernard Magnien, and Lieu
tenant John Brookes, Officers of the said
Grenadier Company, and be forwarded to
ourßeprefentative in C6ngrefs, witlvpolitive
inftruttions for it to be laid by him before
that body as the sense of the meeting.
(Signed)
BERNARD MAGNIEN, Capt.
JOHN BROOKES, Lieut.
\WeareaJfured the above captain is a foreign
er from St. Domingo.-]
Extraft of a letter from the American agent
at Algeziras, to Mr. Iznardi, the Ameri
cantonful at Cadiz, 12th March, 1798.
" On the 12th the copper bottomed (hip
Hunter, of New-York, was brought in here.
She is loaded with filh, oil, nankeens, muslins,
&c. and bound to Genoa, Marseilles, and ihe
Eaft-.lndies. There i« a dispute between the
French and Spanish privateers to know who
bonrded hir firft. 'J he captain unfortunately
i fired one of his guns, he (ays, with powder,
! and to leeward, but the emptors fay he fired in
j his defence with (hot. I fear he will have
much trouble in getting clear, as his cargo is
I valuable 1"
Clr.grefs of the United States.
In Senate May 15th, 1798-
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Se
nate be directed to write to all such Senators
as are abfeftt withoul leave, or whose leave
of absence has expired ; requesting their
immediate attendance.
Yesterday a runaway negro girl was pur
sued by her mafier, who overtook her this
fide the middle ferry in High-street, and
ordered her home, at the fame diae giving
her a ftroKewiih something he held is his
hand by way of chastisement—She fat out
on her return,, and passed on to tire bridge,
while her mailer Hopped to speak to a per
son at the toll house, during which, the girl
having arrived at the middle of the ( bridge,
jumped into the river and was drowned —
Her body was not found till three quarters
of an hour after.
A large mill, in the vicinity of Lancaster,
containing about 500 barrels of flour) was late
ly consumed by fire.
" D. Hawley, Esq. American Consul at
the Havanriah, aflerts, That a number of
French cruizers are ordered to cruize near
the mouth of that harbour, for the purpose
of intecepting every American veflel, in or
autward bound ; and as many as are caught
with British manufa&ured goods 011 board,
; will be considered fit fubjefts for condemna
tion, under the French arrete. (Mass. Mer.)
Pennfyh'ama Ho/pital, sth month, "]th '9B.
At the ele&ion held this day, the following
1 contributors were chosen,
MANAGERS.
JoJiah Hezues Ellijion Perot
| Samuel Coates Robert Wain
I Thomas Morris "James Smith
Samuel Clark John Dorfey
> Lawrence Seckel Ifratl Pleafants.
Pattifon Hartjhorne Roh. Smith, Merchant.
TREASURER.
Mordecai Lewis.
The managers met the 14th instant, and eleift
ed the following contributors,
PHYSICIANS.
Thomas Parke Caffar Wiflar
Benjamin R:i/h ' Philip S- Phyjic, and
WiHiam Shipper1 1 Benjamin Smith Barton
The American cockade at the commence
ment of the late revolution, was black—
when the treaty took place between the
United States and France, a white rose
was added ; no red or blue was evtr worn.
That treaty—is it now in force ? or do the
French fadlion wifli the royal emblem to be
retained ?
" What I am now,
" So you may be,"
Is the language which Americans may
read upon the tombstone of the departed
independence of the Swiss Republic.
[Salem Guz.~\
COMMUNICATION.
The Aurora of Saturday presented to the
public uflder the name of an Executive Mir
ror, a partial statement of the distribution
of certain Public Offices, with a profefied
view of exciting a belief that an undue pre
ference is given to citizens of the New-
England States. This mirror is nothing
more than an ordinary Jacobin Magnifying
Glass, presented to the eyes of ignorance
and credulity, that the measure? of govern
ment may appear exaggerated and diilorted
—and though the daily libel eontained in
that paper are fcareely worthy of a comment
or reply, yet the idea having been suggested,
it is a matter of amusement to examine its
foundation—This will be seen in the two
following statements. The firll being an
exhibit of the officers who have filled the
most important places lince the adopM'on of
the eonftitution ; and the second having re
ference to those who are now iu office.
v., 'r* * A '" 1 *.. ?•
No. T.
PRESIDENTS.
George Wafliington Virginia
John Adams Massachusetts
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
John Adams, MalTachufetts
Thomas JeJferfon, Virginia
SECRETARIES OF STATE.
Thomas JefFertm, Virginia
Edmund Randolph, do.
Timothy Pickering, Pennfylvauia.
SECRETARIES OF TREASURY.
Alexander Hamilton, New-York
Oliver Wolcott, Conne&icut
SECRETARIES AT WAR.
Henry Knox MafTachufetts
Jauies M'Henry, Maryland
CHIEF JUSTICES.
John Jay, New-York
John Rutledge, South-Carolina
• Oliver Ellsworth, Connecticut
ATTORNF.Y GENERALS.
Edmund Randolph, Virginia
. William Bradford, Pennsylvania
Charles Lee, Virginia
PUBLIC MINISTERS.
To France—T. JefFerfon Virginia
G. Morris, New-York
J. Monroe, Virginia
J. Marlhall, do.
E. Gerry, Maffackufetts
C. C. Pinckney, South-Carolina
TO GREAT-BRITAIN.
T. Pinckney, South-Carolina
John Jay, New-York
Rufus King, do.
TO SPAIN. «
D. Humphreys, Connecticut
T. Pinckney, South-Carolina
' TO PORTUGAL.
D- Humphreys, Connefticntt
W< Smith, South-Carolina
TO BERLIN.
1 Maflachufetts
TO HOLLAND.
| J. Maflachufetts
W. V. Murray, % Maryland
The result of the foregoing Statement is as
follows ;
,t r\a ? Totalm pn:e adult- ? h
A antes rf Offices < . ~, ' • ~ r
■" { /<«« of.Conflitidti.r,. JN. t.
Presidents a I
Vice Presidents ? I
Secretaries of State ' 3
Do. of Treasury . - I
Do. at War I
Chief Justices 3
Attorney general " 3
10 ii L ~
12
Foreign Ministers '3
It may be said t Mt'Fis Kering and
"King are nativ<s c est* But the
iirft of those gent en has -.elided ' hger in
Ptjnnfylvania tha Mr. Secfetar\ Dallas,
and the latter, m; 1 New-
York, where also his eitaic . , uid of
which State he was a Senior when ete&ed.
N». It
At present it is true that the President is
from N. England, and the Secret ary of the
Treasury .and the Chief Jilftice, (neither of
whom were appointed by President Adams)
are from that quarter of the Union ; but
against these may be placed the followipg
lilt of officers who arc from the states south
of Nrw-England.
The Vice-Prefidefit
Secretary of State
Attorney-General
Four Judges (out of five)
Five Ministers to foreign courts (out of 7)
The Comptroller,
Auditor, iof the Treasury
Tresfurer, & f '
Regifler, J
The Commissioner of the Revenue
Purveyor of Public Supples
Three Commissioners (out of four) under
the British treaty
The Director and Treasurer of the Min»—
and a full proportion of all other officers,
bot\ civil and military—There is another
officer also who may be added to these,
and whom it is not possible that Benny
should so get —I mean the
Post mailer-General.
After all is said, the true question is;—
are the principal offices well filled i In thet
cafe it is immaterial from what past of our
common country the incumbents are feleft
cd. Fortunately, at present they are well
filled, but they are also, for the molt part,
indifferently paid. The faftion have in
dulged their illiberal and malignant difp<s
- by preventing an allowance of ade
quate salaries, expedting, 110 doubt, to starve
out all the honest men, and render the offices
of government a prey to needy and hungry
expe&antß.
A Sermon
Will be delivered, this evening at
half past seven o'clock, at the Baptist Meet
ing House in Second Street, by the Rev.
Wm. Staughton Principal of Borden
town Academy, in behalf of the Philadelphia
Missionary Society.—The colledtion to be
app r °priated to its funds.
(Cs* The Rev. Mr. Abercrombie'i Ser
mon, delivered on the day of tfie National
Fail will be publiflied by Mr. Ormrod to
morrow afternoon—and Dodtor Green's on
Monday next.
~ FQITsA L.E~~
At thj Store of Jesse Ejf Robet Wain,
On Spruce street Wharf,
Port Wine in pipes, hhds. &qr.ca(ks
Lisbon Wine in pipes and quarter calks
And a few pipes of excellent Madeira Wine
may 16. eotf
TO BE SOLD, .
By John Nixon Sff Co.
A few hhds, of excellent St. Croix SUGAR and
RUM, which will be landed at Will ngs and Fran
cis* whajf uext Monday, the aift instant.
may 16. djt eotf
*1022 SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Spruce-street near Second-street,
ldjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—-This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen and a hmdfome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
Asany Person inclined topurchafe will view
he premifes,a more particular defcriptroniscon
fidered unnecefiary.
The terms of payment will be one third cath,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in it
months with interest. Eor further information,
Enquire of JOHN CRAIG,
No. ia Dock-Jtrcet. '
may 16 §
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
t~Y wi(h to receive *"0 or three genteel boaid
rrs. The House is .landfomtly iurnilhed; the
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
3Ut, and well (locked with the cheiceft Fruit.
There are several Musical Instruments, amongst
which is a mot excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handfoire Coach, which may beat
the service of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are most excellent
—the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zette. dtf
may 16.
FOR SALE,
About 660 boxes of fine Spanish
GUN POWDER,
Containing 1 <0 lbs. each.
Apply at No. 13, corner of Arch and Front streets.
may iz. § IW
FOR SALE, ~
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to fertfe, is a
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
has been accuftome9 to marketing for a family
his age about thirty two years. For futher parti
culars, apply at the office «f this Gazette.
may $
W. M. Bjddl-E,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Pnblic, that he
has removed to No. 147, Clufnut Street, where he
proposes to Carry on ilu- bufißrft of
A BROKER.
He will procure pat'rirs. or tfanfa& any other
business in the Land Office of this date, for a mode
rate conimiffion.
may 14 cod3t
tUftited States, V(T
Pt'r.nfyfaama D'lftrift. $ J*
IN pu nuance ol a writ to me fYorft the
Konorable Richard Peters, Efq Jiulgj of riie
Diftrift Court of the United States, in and sos
the I'enufylvar ia Dtrtridi, \vfll l>g to puV
lie Tale at the Merchants' </o#ee-Howie in the City
or Philadelphia 6 i Wednesday the ajd dayoi'Ma/
inftant,at ) o'clock in the evenirg, . >
* [thk schooner
L Y D I A,
A failing built vessel, not
>i~u"nßrfV» y~V one year old, buithen 6j
tons, and can be font to sea witli a trifling expeiice J
with all an'i finjular tkeTachle, Appareland Pur*
nitirte, as they now are—['he said Schooner hav«
ing been libelled, prosecuted against and condemn
ed for the payi «nt of mariners wages, &e.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Mar/la/.
Office,"J
May 16,1798. J
N. B. '1 be inventory may he fe«n at my officii
Sale of Furniture.
ON Monday next, thc'zift of May it (ling
o'clock in the morning at No. 19 South
Fourtl.rftrect, between Chtfnut and Market
/Ireets, will be fo'd a large afTorfment of
Hoiifehold Ess Kitchen Furniture*
Confining of mahogany fquate and r und end
dining tables—breakfaft and ca>-cV tables—lotas
and mahogany chairs—windsor chtiirs with and
without fluffed feats—bureau*—-chert of draw*
trs — crib and dradle—Bureau with
secretary drawer and wardrobe—dt-fk and book
case—two easy chairs—gilt and plain looking'
glafles—piftures—brifs andirons at) excellent
roalling jack with weights and spits complete.
With a variety of othe articles nearly new and
in good preservation ; the * roper y of two Fam*
ihes about to remote from this city.
CONNELL T iS$ Co-, auclionetri.
may 16 dts
1 o be fold at Public Vendue,
At No. 451, Market 11 reet. n Friday, ißthin(t«
at 10 o'clock in the forenoon,
A VUIE7Y Ofi
Houfhold and Kitchen Furniture,
CONSIST ING et Beds, Bcdllcads, Chads of
Drawers, Sophas, Dining Tables, Card Ta
bles, round ends, Chairs, Looking Olafles, Hand
Irons, Side Boards, Carpets, patent glass
a g*od roalling Jack, a large Book Cafe \uith door*
and drawers, Sic. &c, &c.
Aosd,
An elegant toned patent Piano Fofte %Vit(i ad'
ditional keys and pedal almolt as good as new.
The above are the property of a family rertioiM
ing to the cnuntry, and are all in good order.
EDWARD FOX, AuSioneer.
may 14. an 8
A few Copies
0/ the DISPATCHES from the A'
merican Envoys at Paris, communicated to
Cong+efs in the Prefdents Message of the
3 d inf. may be had at this Office.
TO BE SOLD, 6y ~
John Nixon & Co.
A quantity of very excellent LOG W OOD
NOW LANDING AT THEIR WHARr.
may 10. 3awtf
Wafliington, Cammiffioners Office,
7th May, 1798.
THE Commilliofiers will r. ceiva] ropofus ati.
til the 30th of June next, for building ia
the City of Waftiington, ene of the Bxtcutivd
Offices lor the Unite i States, of the following
external dimensions ; —l4B feet i-i length, and
57 feet 6 inches in breadth ; cellar walls 30'
inches : firfl flory 13 inches; and second tlory 18
partition walls averaging 15 inches; to
contain on the ground floor 14 rooms; fame num.
ber.on the second fl»ry ; and in the roof 8 rooms,
with apa Sage. The w iole externa* •{ the hurtd
ing to be oi {lock brick ; the inside walls of hqrd
burst brick ; cellars of best foundation {Tone, to
the height of the girders ; theoutfide walls, as far
as they (hew above ground, to the pliath, to be of
plain ashlar free stone ; soles of windows, fill, of
doorsand tiring ccurfe, of free {lone. Ihe house
to be coVere With cyprels {tingles.; the rooms in
general to be 16 feet by 20, finifhed in a plain,
neat manner, of the befl materials ; fix f.nall
rooms to be groined
A plan and elevation of said building, and bill
of particulars, are lodged in the office, lor thfin
fpe&ion ol those who may wi h to contracft ; also,
a copy of said bill, at the office of Clement Bid
die, JEfiq. at Philadelphia.
. Prooofals, sealed up, will be received untjj the
10th June next, oh which day, the board <will
proceed to contrast with such person, as (hall ap
pear under all tircumftances to off:r the bed terms.
Per order of the Comai.ffioners.
THOMAS MUNROR, frcri.■
may 1 r. aawtaoje
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away, on the 7th of April, a Negro
Man, named Glijgow, perhaps he may paii
by the name of Ghfg w Lee, or may change his
name ; he is thirty one years of age, nearly
fix feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un
der lip, a I'm all part being bitten out between the
midd'e and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has be n very fore,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
some time pall : he is a ft out, llrong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro woman of
Mr. Joffiua Lingoe, of this county. It is luppofed
they are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfciiber (hall get him again, (ball receive the
above reward. £SME BAYLY.
Stats of Maryland, 7
Somerset C«unty, april 10. j may 4 —4w
New Publication.
A Serf hie, Seafonalle and Spirited
ADDRESS,
Written by a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" What is our Situation ?
AND
What our Profpe&s ?"
A feiu Pages for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner ol Chefnut and Second ftretts.
And at ;he Office of the Editor, 119 Chefnut ftr
( Price three ftxteentbs of a dollar J
Kxtra£t from the above.
" When hour by hour we are yielding
point by point ; relinquilhmg one rfght to
day and preparing to farrifice another to
morrow, these generous friends tread rapid
ly on our steps. and every new couceflion
but opens a new demand. Rapacity grows
more insolent by uninterrupted success, and
timid submission invites
will this end ? What offering will gorge the
appetite of plunder, or appease the rage
of unrefifted hoflility ? No civilized nation
has ever before been guilty of fucK outrage
and ins lence, free nati»n hai evtr be
fore eqdured them,''Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
' I H,\Tpropola!s will be rectived at the Office of "
*. the Secretary of tKe Treasury until the expi- ,
ration of the I fth day of July next ensuing, for i
the supply of -.11 rations which may be requi:ed
for the use of the United States, fromthe firft day of ;
Oilober T798, to the thirtieth day of September
' 799> both days inclufivr, at tho places anil within
the diftrid hereal'er mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittsburgh ;at X.e Beuf; at w
Cincinnati ; at Greenville ; at Picque Town and
Lcramie't Store; at Fort Wayne ;at Fort Defi- '
ance ;at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi- A
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
taron 0:1 the River Wabafh; at Malfac; at any
place or places on the east fide of the River Miffil
fippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up.
on the Illinois Riv<-r ; at any place or places on the
eat tide of the Mifliffipwi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the A
State rf Kentucky, and within the said State ; at
Kuoxville, Tel'ico Block House, and at all other
Pnl» in t'ae State of Tenneiree; at anyplace or
places on the east fide of the River Mississippi, be-
low the southern boundary of the State of l'ennef-
fee, to the southern boundary of the United States.
If supplies (hall he required for any potts or
places not mentioned in this notice.all such supplies
(hall be furnifhed at to those to
the polls before recited, as may be agreed 011 be
tween the United States and the contractor.
The tations to be supplied to coefiit of th» sol-
Jowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill ofrum, brandy or whif-">
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( hundred
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, Q
one pound of candles ) £
The rations are to be furnifhed in f»ch quantities,
at that there {ball at all times during the said term,
be fufficicnt for the conlumption of the troops at {
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other pcflt, for the term of at least three
months in advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame shall be required. It is to be un
dcrftood, that the contrailor is to be at the ex
p; nee and rifle of issuing the fuppliesto the troops
at each poll, and that all lodes faftained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
rroops of the United States, shall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more perfont of credita
ble characters, and the certificate of a commilTion
ed officer, ascertaining the circuraftances of the
loft and the afnount of the articles for which com
pensation (hall b« claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United Statet
bf requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furr.iihed under thepropofed contrail, ftiall be
ilTued, until the supplies winch have or may be
furnifhed under the contrail now in fcrce have
been consumed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
march 47. aawtljjy
Cedar Polts, Rails and bhingles '
FOR SALE.
THEY will be delivered to anyplace in Mary
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New- *
York, where boats drawing fix feet water can go
irom this place. It will often suit thie feller to
receive in return corn, provifiors, wet or dry
goods. Letter* dire&ed to the fubferiber at this ; 1
place, and put into any poflE office in the United
States, will be regularly received and carefslly at
tended to. Those who wilh to contrail in Phila
delphia, will please to app-y to Gidio-j Hilc 1
Wells, No. 155, Market-llreet. The fubfetiber
is desirous of contracting with foma refponlible
perfen in Philadelphia, to receive and dispose of for t
him, on commiflion, a quantity of two feet Shin
gles, for home use, and of two feet and eighteen
inches, for exportation.
William Hill Wells,
Dagfborowgh, (late of Delaware.
apn'l 18. »aw 4 w
Germantown and Reading lurn- J
pike Road Company. i
THE Subfci ibers Cornmiffioners appointed by )
an Ait of .iflembly of this Commonwealth i
entitled, "An aft to enable the Governor of this (
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for
making an Artificial Road from the city of Ph - ,
ladelphia, through Germantown, by the rout
ofCbefnut Hill, to the twelve mile stone on
the Heading Road, ind thence to Reading in the
county of Berks," hereby give notice, that hooks
are provided as the law direiSs, and that we .
-will proceed to receive fubferiptions for the com
pany's stock on the 28th, 19th, and 30th days
e f Kay next, at the City Hall, in the city of
Philadelphii.at the Tavern of William Buchois,
.in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob B'err, ,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
the county of Montgomery, cn the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until two V
clock, P. M. on each day, when and where cer
tain of the Comm flioners will attend to receive
fubferiptions accordingly,
april 14th, 1798.
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun. .
CASPAR W. HAINES,
SAMUEL BET I ON,
GEORGE LOGAN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
ISAAC FRANKS,
JOS HEISTER,
J. BOWER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,.
GEORGE DOUGLASS,jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B- Fifteen Dollars to be paid on each
(hare at the time of fubl'cribing.
April 17 —eodtspM
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
/ Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fight of Ger
mantown, rml about five miles from the city;
the whole being under good fence, and m ex
cellent order as pailure ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
lonn Elliott C**sson, at his Office for the
fcle of Real Ellates, Conveyancing, &c. Ng. 54,
High-street.
ijth mn. ,d. »"&fnt
Notice is hereby Given,
TH /\T application ha* been made at the Bank of
the United States, for the renewal of the fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
capture of the Britifc Packet, Countcfs of Leicef-
No.t7Q»,containingjlhareO IlTued to Henry Ca
",, 0 , 5 do. j zenove Nephew&Co
I do. iffiii'd to Edwtrdt
73 and Co.
5 do. issued (in lien of
<iM to 6513) to Samuel and Henry Waddington.
j 9l ft 4 do. issued to Phyn.El-
Kce and Tng(i«. . ~ ,
All pcrfons concerned sre therefore called upon
to (hew cause why new Certificates (hould
issued ajjreeably to the said application.
,;i , - ICO'-*
ipr;l 14
treasury department,
MARCH i, 179 8 -
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, d
IN pursuance of the AA of C«nprefs passed on the sixth d«y »f ° ne t!v
ni: ery (even, e-titled " An Ait laying duties on damped Vellum, f,Vw entitled
I AA pafWonthefi&rfnrh day ol Dscvraber, one thousand/even Wndre . ,^' t>v the aA enti
•• An Ait -o po-Vpone for a limited time the commencement of the dan-■» impcdl
tied «An A ' ng Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchmept and P.per that from am^
firft day of J "*"!£, the fcveralStamped Dutie« hereafter enumerattd, will be
ted through United States.
For every ' < ieceof Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon *hicb ffi>H
writtenorpt' '.iy or either of the inttrumentt er writings! olio wing—to wit : Qts. \Mh
| ,
Any Certificate Naturalization, - - - - * _ . J
Any Licence to praitice.or Certificate of the admifTion, enrolment or regiltry 01
anvCounfellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proilor, in any Court of the
United Statet, - - * " ' , , , .
that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United . tates
for one of the said Officet, (hall so far it relates to the payment ot_t he
dnty afwetjid, be a fufficient admission in all the Courts of the United
States, f«r each and every of the said offices. _ _
Any Grant or Letters Patent, rnider the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - " 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters paten , (
cept for lands granted for military services) - *
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - "
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof any WVJ or -
ther testamentary instrument, or for any (hare or pirt of a perfor.al eita'te <J -
vided by force of any statute of diftrtbut'uns, other than to the y" 1 "
dren or Grand Children of the person dcceafed.tbe amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the va.ue ot One tluti-
When* the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - . c .
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional Turn of I
Any Policy of Insurance or instrument in nature thereof, on any Slip, vellel or
goods insured from one diltriil to another in the United States,
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Infurdnce is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, J
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that shall pass the fe*U>t any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court,
furnilh for the use of the United States of some particular (t*te, - 5°
Any Bond, bill Pinole or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promitim y
note or other note,other than any recognizance, bill,bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any (late, or tor their
use refpeilively, - - - ■ " t .
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred collars, - "
If above one hundred dellars and not exceeding five hundred do ars, IS
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding OHe thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - - - .* "
Provided, that if any bonds or notes shall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjeil to only two fifth parts ot the duty
aforel'aid—viz. - - "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred u 011 *", * 4
If above one hundred dollar! and not exceeding five hundred ddlln s, 10
If above fiv» hundred dollart and not exceeding Qne tbmtrand dollars, zo
If above «ne thousand dollars, - • " " ft , 3°
Any Notes ilTded bvthe banks now established, or that may hereafter •-
lilhed within the United States, other than the noi#s of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual compsStion. of one per centum on the annsat di
vidends made by fufh B*nks, to their Stockholders relpedtively, according to
the following scale. - - " t ' " „
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred o° lllrs > J?
Cn all notes above one hundred dollar* and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - " "
On all notes above fiye hundred dollars, - " 1
Any Protest or other Notarial ail, - - " ' ._
Arty Letter of Attorney, exctptfor an invalid penfion,or to obtain oriell War
rants for Land granted by the United States a 9 bounty f6r military services
performed in the late war, - - * . * *3
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, tor Isls than
five hundred dollars, ■ - -
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
For more than two thousand dollars, * " 3
Any note or MU of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
tf from 01it diftrha to another diftriil oftheUnited States, not being in the
fame State, - ,0
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - »5
Any Inventory or Catalogiie of any furniture, goods or made m any
cafe required by law, (exccpi in cases of goods afid chattels distrained for
rent or raxes, and goods taken in virtue of any.legal process officer.,) JO
Any Certificaje of a Share in any InPirance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United tifates, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - - - »5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dellars.
The dutiesafote(ai4 will be collected and received by the Sgpery'ifots,, TnfpeAors aud other QKtm
of InfpeAicn, in tKe t»f t/ie United States, asd by such o.ther
perfonsas (hall from t* time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Districts for
that purpose.
The Supervifers of the fcveral Diftriils will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be prailicable, mark or (lamp 1 , without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of VelUim, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates ef duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates preferibed by law, by application to any Superviior, Infpeitor, Officer of lufpeilion,
or other par ton appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflrias.
V ll GIfEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abovementhacd.
OLIVER WOLGOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
liihing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every adiftance in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BT SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To be published every Wedpcfjay and Saturday
morning, on the following condition#.
It will be printed on four page* quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholelale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on eatharriale—The Pri
ces Current at Boston, New-York, Charlelton,
and other parts ®f the United States, with the Pri
ces Current at London, the Weft Indies and clfe
where as often as tbey can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The ratqi of infnranee—the price
of (locks—course of exchangi, Sec. &c. Likewise
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as (hall
be thought ufeful and important—and the remin
der of the paper will be appropriated to advtrtife
ments.
The price to fubfcrifiers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hoti
fes, will be Four Dollars per annum—Two (lollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub
(cribers at a greater distance will have it sent them
agreeable to their directions —to pay t*o dollars at
the time of (übferibing, and the remainder at the
erd of the year.
The publication Giall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
gj" It is Trom the advice acd to gratify the wilh
of a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
printti proposes publishing this Price Cnrrent in a
quarto size in preference to any other. And it is
propofod to embrace the Prices Current with such
other matter as may be mod material to fend abroad
in the firft two pages—appropriating the other two
to such matters as ryay be more immediately do
meltic, and to advertisements.
Sobfcriptions are received by said Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-street,
and Mr. Z. PouLfbn, jun. at his office in Chcfnut
ftreet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Wagson, hung on Jacks with glades and
blind" in'the doors, with or without harneft.—
Enquire of Perer Umerickhoufe, Arch, below
Sixth street, or the fubferiber in Germantown.
CASPAR IV. HAINP.S.
April a *aaw3W
Frefli Teas.
Jufl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain' Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Comptisg House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting Hottfe, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Y oung
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imps-rial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, affsrted;; Black and coloured Lute
strings and §actiiis, Naskeens, Cassia, large garden
and cominon Fans, fattin and Jbteftring Umbrellas,
whale-bons flicks.
T/jrv have also For Sale,
Ell wide Peruana, Bahama Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sagai ir boxes,
march 8. §
Now Opening,
At Wi l n a m M'L a w s Saddle Manufactory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general assortment of Horseman's
Pistols, direit from the Manufaflurers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Cover*, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
rices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trjinks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
"January iitb, 1798.
FOR THI INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
THE following arrangement is made by tjie
said commiflioners, for cleansing the
streets, &c.
Diftriil No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
2. From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of CVefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance nf William Moulder.
1' 3. From the south fide of Chefnut ftreet,to
the north fide gf Spruce ltreet, to be under the
j fuperintendance of Jol'eph Claypoole.
| 4. From the sorth fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
penntendance of- Hugh Roberts.
When pumps are oat of order south of
High-street, plcafe apply to Thomas Diiey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-ftreets, er Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ; ani north of
High street, to Dixey and Deharen, in Saffafras
ftreet, between Sixth and Stventh-ftrestj.
treasury department,
March 30 tb. 1798. E
Public Notice is hereby given,
IPW \T by an aft of Congrcfs passed on the
1 rmhdavnt March, ..798, the following
a*f?riti<)ifs 3 nd amendments have been made to c
the ait pjlTed on the 6th day of July 1797. ««" n
titled "An »<£ laying duties on damped vcl- h
" lum, parchment and paper. t ]
The (lamp duties on debentures or r-crtifi- £
cates for the drawback of Cuttoms or duties on (
Imports are repealed. „
. Adifcount at the rate ff fevett and one half t
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors fe
or Itifpeflors refpedlively, to any persons Other c
than Officers cf the Revenue, who may pur- n
chafe at one time or procure tn be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon /
whieh the duties shall amount to len Doi- j
lars or upwards. C
tl
Stamped Piper, will be provided and fold at
the rati-s prelerihed by law. without any addi
tional charge r>r expense on account of the
nrice of Paper ; but for ftimped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded -
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each skin of Parch _
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each fkm ot
Vellum of medium size, which may be furmlh
ed at 'he expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity- J
Given under my handy at Philadelphia, the C
day and yetr nbo-vsmeniioved.
OLIVER WOLCOTT, »
Secretary of the Treasury.
WANTED, ~~' p
APPROVED BILLS on Amsterdam for which ;
cash will be given at the rats of thirty seven cents ,
per guilder. Enquire of the Calhier of the Bank t
of the United States. § april 23. y
LANDING,
Frem on hoard the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie, "
from Batavia,
And FOR. SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 canitlers SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April 17.
Thomas Ss? Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SAI.E,
AtNo.s, Dock-(lreet,near the Drawbridge, c
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and cotfee
crips and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoea
China and Engliffi umbrellas,
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. iod. 1 ad. and aod. nails
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanilh brown and white
lead
Euglilh icythes 42 to 50 inches j
ALSO, 4
m barrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
AcommodiousStoreinDock-ftreet,
JJo. 7, to be let, three stories high, suitable for
any business.
4th mo. sth §tf (
.5 ALI P El RE. 1
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Snbfcribers. :
James C. & Samuel IV. Fijher,
No. J3, Arch Street '>
march 3 1 4tawtf
Joseph Ricardo, ,
OF this City. Merchant, has assigned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, ts James
C. Fimer, Samuel W. Filher, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands arete
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Suljfcribers, idling Aflignees.
James C. <jf Samuel IV. Filher.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 11 4tawtf
„anal Lottery —No, 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 40th
inft. Tickets for Sale In this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secqnd-ftreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept for regiiler
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. ll.and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in of the States of the
• Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcoisting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houfen, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
i>y WM. BLACKBURN.
Nttvemben?. §
"* JUST RECEIVED.
And for sale by W.Young-, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet,. M. Carey tiß High-street
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second'flreet and the
Booksellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Potm, historic and deforiptive «
By a Lady, of Boflon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion to the surrounding Profpedt—lnvocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Fidliun discarded—Dedication to Wash
ington—The Adtion opessat the Retreat of the
» Columbians from Bunker's Hill—GeneraLHowe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
r»n —Perfsjiification of Fortune and Fame—
Walhing'on at Meuat Vernon—called to the
• chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
t tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Ijiofton—lts SufTer
r ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
Britiffi Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
racter of the Columbian Soklies—The Poet's
prophetic Apoftrpphe to the Frogrefs of F»pe
dom throughout the World,
march 30. $
e To be Let,
e (And pofleffion given on the ifl of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
e 11 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
0 and (U'jles.at present in the tenure of Major Jack
s - sos. Enqaire at 187 South Third street.
0 april 2. §
e JUST PUBLISHED, ' 1
0 AND FOR. SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
, e (Price 25 Cents J
Refle&ions on Monroe's View
ie or THE CONDUCT OF THE EXECVTIFK,
As published in the
of GAZETTS of the UNITED STATES,
JC Under the signature of
b- SCIPIO,
of In rvbieb tie Commercial Warfare cf France is traced
s- to the French Fa&ion in this Country, at its Source,
an I tit Motives «/ Qpfojition, JV.
Majfachufetts Di/iritl.
By Order of the Honorable John Loweli
Esquire, Judge of the Diftrid* Court for '
the Maflachufetts Diflridl,
" XT OTICE is h<rreb y given to all perfonj '
IN concerned," That a Libel is filed in said
Court by Christian G Grutzmacher, late Com
mander of the fbip Corona, of and from Ham
burgh, and Henry Andrew Heins aa agents for
the owners of said Ship, against sundry good?,
wares and merchandize, saved from fai.l
Corona, wrecked on Cape Cod within said Dif.
tridl on the 16th March lad—which goods
wares asd merchandize, were confined to di
vers perfonsin Philadelphia, in the DiftritS of
Pennsylvania, and elsewhere—and that said Li
belis filed as aforefaid, for the freight said to be
due to the Lsellants on said goods, wares and
merchandize, and for neceflary expences paid
by them which hare arisen upon the fame
And that trial will be had upon the,aforelaid
Libel at a DiftritS Court to be holden at the
Court-House in Boston, on Monday the eigh
teenth day ps June next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
SAMUEL BRADFORD,
" Marjhal of KlaJJachufetts."
Dated at 80/lon, April )
**/. 1798. < tawtf
TO BE SOLD, "
40,939 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fife and Wheeling
Crocks and Ten Mile R«n.
These Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five {hillings per aire ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 3700 acres, which were patentad in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 178*. The tratS.
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con- 1
veqient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Wafliington, from 14 to 16 from the
villagi of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one lourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given forthe refi
du:. Enquire of the Printer,
april at. <5
~ TO BE SOLD" ~~
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, betwen ths northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the township* of Hafnden and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, horn their quality and situation,
are a very desirable objetS for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage. *
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will! e given for the refi
du."« Enquire of the Printer,
sjpril 21.
Valuable Stands for Bufinels.
FOR SALE—by the Subscriber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Second and Third streets :—one containing
eighteen feet, and the other feventetn feet, more or
e Is, qn the said street, and both extending, the
lfSne breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
®r less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 82)
Which mayTeadity be made into one ; and, oa
Carter's there is a convenient, well built
htree-ftory
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said alley.
This property is clear of ground-rent, and an
indifpu'table title will be given to the purchaser.
The three Houfeswillbcfoldfeparately or toge
ther.
Further particulars may ba known oa applica
tion to
ZACHARIAH POULSON, 7 un.
No 80, Chefnut-Ilreet, or at the Library.
march 23. feflßw
A Farm and Count/it Seat,
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
pofneto Norm-town, seventeen miles liom Phi
ladelphia—-the farm contains 193 tees of land, 50
of which are woodland, about 40 of msadow, and
the reft arable land. The houfc and garden which is
large and well paled, (land in the most ple«fant situ
ation, commanding a view of fho river, an island
1 which is opposite, and the village of Norris-town—■
There is a {had filhery belonging to the place --En
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
or on the premises.
April 16 lawtf
Bafkenridge:—for faie
IT consists of 9«0 acres, Jmoft all of which if
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Ksrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
I Eall by the fiver Pafaiek.
, There are on it a number of buildings, forming
i afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
, is a very convenient one and{a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 finsbearing ergraf
ed Apple Trees —and there is on other parts oi said
I tra& near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
t varie'y ef other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
belt and most delicious kinds.
A Ho, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForoftTreos, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 wiles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Merris-Town, and 12 from Springfield —It
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incafh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
i quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
: No. 78, Chefnut t:eet.
February a. eodtf
I Salisbury Eilate.
; <T-ihE Subscriber, "proposing to contra© his bufi
-1 JL ness, offers this Efbtc for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
- a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grid
. Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
e in perfect repair,as ate all the Water Works connecl
f ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the pprpofe of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are about two tboufand acres
S of Land, one half of which is under wood, theother
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
_ fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
tuperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fixtv-nioe guru
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
' into 32 pounders, have failrd on proving. The filu
'* ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufafture, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Connecticut,and only 8° miles from several land"
ings on the Hudson's siver, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water tffuinjs
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnic/,
and which may be cdnverted into a variety of other
ufeful purpoles. The purchaser can beaccom
y ed with all the (lock and Uten(l!s, and hava pobedion
onor before the firft nf June next, and preparation
may be mariein tbemeanaimefor going into blail im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered,
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. Fo r
terms, apply to Mr. ]ofeph Anthony, in Ph'.lade.-
phia; David Brooks, Etq-.one of the ReprefcntaMves
in Coogrefs for this State; Mr, David Waterman, oa
"4 theprenvifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOS.
Dee. t. 3 iW *