AND Philadelphia Advertiser-.
By John Ward Fen no, N°- ii 9 Chefnut Street.
ftUMB&B »914-] <
■ j
For SALE or CHARTER, OST
THE SHIP .L ud e
, MOLLY, the folio,
Burthen 4100 barrels of P' our > Elizabi
£fj'JJlXi*-??'Philadelphia bullt ' weli , I7o<
fitted, and may be ready D0 .f 4l
to receive 4 cargo in a few daye—fce is pierced Do ,
,g gun*, and mounts 11 new fix pounder., with j 4Cob
Wit arma in proportion. - *79
1 nom;
THE SHIP at 6
P&Z DIA NA, J-jpJ
Burthen 1, too barrels of Flour, Dq fj
Philadelphia built of live oak Dq
VfiiSEi3iv¥"?'and cedar, i» pierced for four- M , K( .
teen puns, »nd mounts ten new four pounders, dat(
with small arms i» proportion, day
Da. N
* THE BRIG Natha
AMAZ oN, ,
SfSswW Surthcn i.jco bsrrels of Flour, g3
JSSw<*»New-Enttl4nd built, has lately j ofep]
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea 6o
?u a few days. Dl *"
For terms app'.yto da;
NIGKL /A &OR IFFIT H. John
Who have for Sale <"<
M board fundi y veJJs at Marcus-Hook, e °;.
i lyooo buulele of Liverpool fine lilt ll
I,loc bulhels of coals Do.
486 crates of queens wiie afiortei. jj 0 .
7 tierces t f bottled pdr.ter Do.
10 barrels of coleotharu paint Will
4 do. of purple brown do. at
k qdastW of vellaw <\cre in cade? Row
• 6 birrels powdered Venetian red paint at
6 barms mineral b'.ack 'lyvi
t } barrels Spanish brown do. R - Ta :
35 boxes of pipes 1 " e
> HAVA^A.SUGARS of "°, 1
89 do. brown J \ «g J
tcolbs. prime cochintal „
3 barrel* New Orleans indigo No. 5
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits ceive
at bales of fail canvass 1 a 3
379 {heets of copper, aflorted from 48 by *4 but 10
J to 60 bv 48 inches
Two tubs railed (till bottoms aflorted
<56 fix pound guas 4* Bj«wt each U
I 4 do. 4 feet, iewt and 4IWI each Pen
50 barrels of gun powder T N !
6 cases Manchelter cotton checks *
3 trunks mullins and ihawls 1 11
14 cafe-, mr.flineta, dimities and ginghams **eoii
18 chert? coloured nankeens, mtrfli irets, &C. •" **
I, trunks p-intedcalicoes
6 bales of -jihiu and coloured caffimeres i lar ;
T bale «f course woollens I do.
'Eijglifli nails aflorted. 1
Otftofeer 17. ' f - 1 "
For Sale.
THE SuBSCHidtR. intending <0 decline the t sol
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the hur
whole Stock of and
• Trugs and Medicines, Instruments, 1 m;
The Ihpp is elegant, commodious, and fuUki- I foi
• utly known for the extensive business done in the 1 m.
■hoUfale and r tail line ; the Gtuation «qual to 1 )ib
-jy in the *s&, VS* «the Coincl' 61 Walnut and 1 m
•cond ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the fti
~-ock, will ba fold, as will bed fuitthe purchaser. 4
J'h» terms may be known, by applying to I lu
JAMF.3 MOORE, jtfN. T
tVlo has For Sale, brig
Well calculated lor the river trade— }
The Peggy, about gotonsbuvthen, ~
Mulberry aod R«d Ced r frao.e, and remarkably
flout, of an easy drifcght «f water, rigging in j- (
good order. J
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails- has
we 11, and in complete order for the lumber business. I cha
■ty- All persons indebted to the late firm «1 Sta
■GoMvktit 17" Bald-win, W. B GolJlbn't, Goh- an
ttvujil 53* Moere, as the fuhfcri'.er, are earnestly the
rcquefted ta make, speedy payment to nat
JAMES MOORE, jbn. tab
»«g*st 3 § Shi
— fur
|'i
Ship Brokers. ~
This EWahlilhmcnt, commenced Hy the late Mr.
Samuel Smith, will be continntd by
Row Simmons, (j
WHO refpedfully acquaint the Merchants, V
Traders, and Mailers of velfels; that n»
paina or exertions lhall be wanting to give general Ai
fatisf»<slipu .This business will be conduced at their tri
Sure, No. 1 07, South Water Street, neir to the be
Custom Houfa. w
OSoberiT dtf
For Sale, or Charter,
THE DANISU B#IC "
lying at Barlington, a ve
ry fall sailer. —For teimsappyto M
JACOB SHOEMAKER.
WHO HAS rOR SALE, "
cargo, of about 2,000 bushels of
St. Martin's Salt. n
!o mo. 14th,'98 dtot. cl
GEORGE DAVIS, 0
r ~I" , AKES this opportunity of informing-
JL his friends generally,thatfo soon as the pre- _
sent Cckuefswill admit it, he propefes to offer for
fait, tlu moll extenfiva of
LAW BOOKS,
hervar imported, or that was ever imported into
•the United States. —The lase arrivals have brought |
ha a "sumber of extremely valuable and scarce a
IJOUK.S, and tnafe expeAed, will greatly add to (
Ae quantity.
a >. endiw
of the United States.
Philadelphia, Se'pfsmber 11, 1798. r
T.ie public is hereby informed, that
an Office of Deposit and Difeount will be opened <
.-11 MondJy next, at the houte lately occupied by c
Ocrmantown—where the business of this Inflitu*
ti«i will be tranfaSed during the continuance oi |
ti* malignant fevernow prevailinginPhiladelphia. •
HENRY KUHL, AJJiJlant Cajhi*.-. -
September at d
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 5, (798.
Forty Dollars Reward.
LOST, on the road from Mount-Holly to Phi- TH.
ladelphia, 0,. Monday 29th October, i*»B, ftre«t,i
the following NOTES, payable to ■
Elizabeth Norman, of Jnns ij
1796, at6months,for 33J 33
Do. f«me date, at II months, L ,i . Mi 33 (
Do. do. 18 mouths, 333 33
Jacob Norman, September jo Cot
1795, at 60 days, 81 60 Dram.
Thomas Potts, Sept. 16, 1 'IC
at 60 days 9°° 1
Tofeph Doane, Aiiguft 17,179 6 ' , and Br
at 6 months , 0 where
Do. fame date, 12 months 440 i>a r£p in e
Do. do. 1 44° 0° Jnc j p
M'Kean & Van Emburgh's note, Ticke|
dated November 9,17961 « 6q thorife
days - - Hi, Union
Ds.Nov. x 6, 179 6 » at 60 d ays H75 >
Nathaw Field, Nov. 4, I 79 6 > at On<
60 days - - ' 5° Fiv
' John Negua,December 5,179 6 > at g Tw
1 6o days - * Nir
Tofeph Norman, April*6, *79?" at Ni;
1 60 days - 34 p ,
David Scull, July 18,
January I, I79^>
months - r
]Q a 11 months 37' five 4
Benjamin F. Garrigues, February until
11, i 7 9S,at oncycsr -
Do. do. x jcars 600 tende
Do do. 3 ye"s 6°° ma
Do. do. 4 years <<oo
Wilson and co. note, May 8, 1798.
100 A cm
at JO days - " a -
Row and Simmons, June 15, 1 ? 9
Twoi ottery tickets indorsed cm the back John As^
R. Taylor and John Clark. rw,lrr« *>'
There are lame other Notes, Draughtsj*Onkrß
,0 of noufe but te the __
ing the fame and retufifing theihlftWr. A'exan-
der Shiras in Mt.uut-Holly, or t» the subscriber, V V
No. 55, North Water street, Philadelpha, ffiall re- w
ceive the above reward and no quefwons afeed.
Payment being {topped, they can b. of bo use In a^
14 but to the owner. roHN CLARK. mid
dtf cases
N° v - >• ... ■ infal
United StaJes "> fl -_ ; mver
ich Penufylvani* Dißrift. j ,
TN purfuasce of a writ to me dirtied ftom the
1 honorable Richard Peters, efqr. judge of the
diftrid' court of the Unite 1 States, m and tor the
n, Pen«fylvania diftriii, will be expofpd to puUie sale, ; a , ;t
&c . en Walnut sirs tt whart, on Tharfday the Bth of
November next, at II o'clock at Coon, w4 j]
8 1 large new cable I i pieces of fail cloth hfe.
I do. worn do. 1 'hip's bell abo'
I small do. do. 7 iron bound «ater calks so it
: I cable about ? inches A demoraft or Brachine Mai
1 old do. 1 do. to press goods when two
1 coil of cordage loading tien
2 do. of do. new 1 iron crane* atte
1 founding limes of one t new flag gin;
th * hundred and fourteen, 1 do. jack Ns.
and fifty fathoms 1 pennant ly {
ST-. 1 main fill 4 copper kettles and lids pro
[fici- I fore-top-fail 2 tea kettles JoIU
1 the 1 main-tip fail I coiFeekettle 1
1 to 1 jib A small copper .pot & ltd ing
and 1 main-top stay-sail 4 ccmpalTfs per
the 3 studding-sails \ A lmali author wil
ifer. 4 under ituddin'g fails 36 calks of rum and about har
I fun fail 18 cases of sugar. _ loc
N, The articles afsrefaid being nhw on board the poi
brig SpecialaAion lying in the port of Philadelphia, the
and diftnA of Pcßnl'ylvania—The fame having nic
j. been saved from the wreck of the Danish ship
Den Godehenfigh: at fca, and libelled against for >dei
J ftlvagc. da
1— WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marftal.
Marlhalls office, Ocl. 25. tin
ien ' A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC. "
kably _ °-
3 2 1,1 TOHN A. SHAEFFER, «»Philadelphia, who has th
J for a few years pad been in the fouihetn States,
rails' has had the effrontery to draw fevcral Bills of Ex- c j
riaefs. 1 charge on Timothy Pickering, Efij. Secretary of tc
rm el State, and myfelf,and by that means has defrauded
Golj- a number of persons ef their money, deceiving
neftly them by an exhibition'of letters and papers v.'ith the
names affixed of divers public charaiteis and repu
jn. table merchants highly recommendatory of laid
§ Shacffcr; to one of thefc papers I find my name
fuhferihed, but Ido not know the man ; thclc are
villainous foTgtries! To further imposition,
I have to request the printers of Newspapers in the
United States to publilh this for the bensfit of their
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDIFH, v
Tr-sfuT (r cftht United . j.
J Trenton, Nrtv-Jerfey,*)
Qftobir 24, 1798. > • -
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WIT •• J
BE IT RJIMEMBERZD,
THAT on the twelfth day
hants \ °f August, in the twenty-third year of '
iat in,' the Independence of the United States of '
jneral America, Benjamin Smith Barton, of the said dif- 1
t their trift, hath deposited in this office the title of a 1
<0 the book the right whereof he claims as author ia the
words following to wit : t
djf " New Views of the Origin of the Trfhesand .
— " Nations of America—By Benjamin Smith Bar ,
" ton, M.D.Correspondent Mtcmocrof theSocie- _
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member »f ,
« the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of ]
'» the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of |
i,ave- " Boston, Correfpordidg Member of thA Mafla
« chufetts Historical Society, and Proftffcr of
'ER. " Materia Medica, Natural Hiflorv and Botany I j
" in the Univerflty ai Pennl'ylvania "
°ls of ' n conformity to the a>ft of the Congr#fs of the
United States, intitled "An aA for the encourage- '
m«nt of learning by securing th*. copies cf maps,
Uot. charts,and looks, to the authors and proprietor, '
of such copies during the times thsr.in meatioced.'s
SAMUEL CALDWELt, Cierk, Difl. of Penn'
irtning November 2, 1798.
he pre-
ffcr for _
To be Let,
a , mo uin airy three Story Brick House,
)r ' ' h the South fide of Filbert Street,' between
Icarci- Eighth and Ninth llte«t, formerly occupied
wt.i a ® 'be Surveyor General's Olliee*—Enquire at No.
C HI, Chefnut Street.
»d»w_ > "g' a 10 ,
s • NOTICE,
, 179 . the firft Monday of December next is
that X appointed for my hcariag before a CoHrt of
opened Common Pita* of AlJegheHy County, in the State
pied by of Pennsylvania, on an application for the benefit
[oufe in ot the a<fts of this state providing for the relief of
Inftitu- infolvcat dcfctor>, having at September term last
ance Oi prcfented j«.y petition, with a fchcdule annexed, of
delphia. all my eftaic real, personal and mixt, rights and
credits, to be affigr.ed for i h<; use of mv creditors.
4 ALEXANDER SUMRALL.
Nov. a. 3t
1
To be fold or Rented, T
'THE feWcril.er's house, No. 78, Walnut akdioi
t. ftrcet, with a c«lhn anil two ftables—PcfTefQou ot
the house will be given in Novtmfeer*—the cr
SaWes ar.d cellar mimcdiaetj.
UEORGE MEAD. ON 1
_Oflobcr 24, _ §tf French
Canal Lottery, No. 11. s"". 1 ,!
Confiderabty more than Half Drawn. Con !
Drams twice a week, every Mo-iday (sf Tuesday ' ent ? ea
For Sale, Seven De!lar« each, at
I WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Brokers office, Mo. 64 South Second-street,
where cheek books are kept l'or examination c.nd
repiftering In this, City of VVafiiinfton No. 2.
and Paterfon Lotteiies and information where vv%e—
Tickets may he had in molt of the Lotteries au- quantit
thorifed by law in any of the States of the P
Union.
Statu o» the Wheil, auev
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000
Five 4,009 20,000
Two a,OOO 4,000
Nine i,oco 9,000 A
Nineteen 500 9.500
Forty-four 200 8,800 vel fei
With a full proportion of the one hundred j n ~, cv
and of the fifty dollar prizes—the price of tick
ets will soon rife, particularly on account of the
five 4,000 dollar prizes thut remain in the wheel ,
until the lad day of drawing. lands
£3" Note, the bufind's of a Proker duly at a '| rca j
tended to in all its branches at the above office water
may 24 w&stf lanij
HAPPT DISCO VER Y.
A certain Cure far that alarming and dreadful Disorder f ront
i The Yellow Fever, paied
jhn As well as any other dangerous fu'rid frvcr, fruer and 4
awe. and other invtterate and complicateddifeafes, by jheos
lcrß £,uf.o f ,u
*&- POUDRE UNIQUE, * Cl .™
an- "TYTELL known and patented in England, France, .
ber, ▼▼ Poland, and all the capital citirs m Europe, .. c
re- where the most astonishing curep have been effeit
ed on pcrfons judged iscqfable by all physicians.
use In a Treatise printed in London, on the properties 011 ®
of this powder t by T. Seymour, M. D. late Che- re ® B,
mist to his Majesty, there are stated two hundred un
tf cases, where this most valuable remedy has proved 1 .
infallible, in all Lind of fevers, pleurisy, bloody flux,
inverate rheumatisms, fciatlca, apoplexy, pat alyfie, yel'
the jaundice t ringworm, -worms ip children and in grown *
the P er f*t s * white* , chronical head and Jlommh aches, hepa- C J
tick and nephretical or flout cbolic, tie lings evil } scurvy
-t and the vtofi ini etrrate and complicated venereal disease. £t
, a islikewife the best ~prepa*ative for th« fntall pox a
0 and mcafles; oi ths greatest utility for young as ° r '
will as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their a *
1 life. The efficacy of this powder in l«veral of the " e
above diseases has been dilcovered by chance, and J® . v
:afks so it has been in the yellsw fever last year, by Mr. t*"a
hine Mahv, who cured several by administering «nly e
vhen two of the said powders, and loft not a single pa
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved and
attested by the here annexed certificates, whose ori- e -
ginalmay be £een at Andrew Hadfegs umbrella ftx>p,
Nt. 131, corner of Chefnut and Fourth Jireeto, the on
ly place where these powders are to b« had, with
1 lids proper dire&ions for the use of thenfc.—Price two
dollars. j U<
The ufefulnefs and certainty of this remedy be- P Y
&Hd ing so great/or so many dangerous diforder9, any
person wifbingto be provided with those powders,
willpleaOs to apply very soon, as the quantity at
about hand is rot very large, and it is doubtful if for a
long time, or if ever any other genuine will be im
d tfie ported, the facret remaining only in the hands of
Iphia, the inventor, in Europe, and never beiag cosnmu- V
aving nicated to, or discovered by any oth«r person.
ti fliip N. Bln the yellow and putrid fevers, this pow- 1 a .
lft for -der snuft be taken th« iecond, or at baft the third
day. .. m«
Ifcal. We the fubferibefs, durirg the late ficknefc in
tjiis city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to
Tsi iAr. Llahy for his medical assistance, wc do here
[ * by certify, that by a certain powder, cal'e,d the
Pouilre Unique, we were perfe<stly recovered from Pj"
ho has the said fatal sickness, and from an experience of '
States, the happy vffetfts of the above most valuable medi- w
of Ex- c i ß g j consider it our duty to make thefame known, ai
ary of f or t he benefit of our fellow citizens,
rauded Margaret Jones,
cetving Mylus O'Connor,
lththe Jcffe Turner,
i repu- Ghriften Rebecca Dow,
Catherin nipple,
y name nn Grovcr, F
. arc William JJills,
lofition, David \Viiliams, carpep.tcr,
s trt the William T Donaldfon, maft-makcr.
o* their M r< M'ahy's weli known Plaifter, for all kind of
irii, wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc-
J States, t - lOQ? Chefnut street.
august 8 aawtf
WIT; Public Notice is Hereby Given,
PURSUANT to the a£l of Congress, parted
on the I2ih day of June 1798, entitled,
tear of " afl refpecliog L->an Office and final lettle
'tates of ment certificates, Indent' at" intefeft, and the
said dif- unfunded or rtgiftered debt credited in the
tie of a books of the Treasury."
r ia the ill. That on the application of the creditors
refpedliveJy, or their lej;al attornies at any time
fbesaiid after the last day of December in the present
ith Bar year, the princi al sums of the unfunded or re
icSocie- giftered debt of the United States credited c»
mbtr of the books of the treasury, or cornmiffioners ot
•ilow of Loasj will be reimbursed at the treasury of the
enecs of Statej.
Mr.lla- That interest upon the unfunded or re- \
'_° r c gillered debts aforelaid will cease from and as- J
I ter the last day of December in the prel'ent year. (
fs of the 3 1 '" That the creditors refpeilively «ill be ,
entitled on requisition to receive from the pro- ,
-t mass per officers of th« treasury, certificates f fund- ,
Dprietor', three per cent llock, equal to the arrearages
itioEid.'s Iritereil due on the debts a'forefaid prior to 1
of penn' the firft day of January, one thonfand seven hun- i
dred and ninety one. (
By order of tbe Board of Cornmiffioners
of the Sinking Fund,
Edward Jones, see'ry.
bffwem Pennsylvania Hospital,
o(.cupi<d 9 mn> *• "f®*
re at No. "KTO pirfon with an infeAious disease, can be
IN aJmittcd into this house ; it is th«rofore e»r
e«jt neftly recommeuded to the citizens, not to fend
or V ring any such patient to rhe gate, who is ill
with the prevailing fever. Several persons having
been sent here improperly, is the reason of giving
r next is t j J|J clnt j oQi
the"Statr s ßy .° r^ r ° f the \FRANCIS H!GGINS,Sf.-«-V.
>e benefit s '"'"g Manager., j
Jr'mUft Wanted to pur chafe.
mcjed, of A PPROVED bills on Amsterdam, for which
ijhts and A calh will be gi >en at the rate of thirty fe
cditors. ven cen.*s per Guilder, Apply to the Cllhier of
JALL., the Bank of the United States.
3t Septrmbcr 2id, 1798.
This Day is Puhlifhed, '•
AKDIOaSALtIY J.» E N NO, 1 »9,CH ISBCT-S 1 *E?.T •
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland, (j b \
ON the origin, progress and prel' Bt state of m s »u
French aggielhon, with a Ikctch o£ the infamous j n g s f or
■ attempts t« degrade tjie Qovcrniaeot of the United {jdlt<, &i
Staß», and some reflections on the late proceedings j t m ,,
in Congress; written the laft'of April in the pre- reporte( j
sent year, by a Member of the Hoiife of Reprcfee-
I tatives. j""" 1 making
' FLOUR FOR bALt
| By the Suifc ribirs, $5" i
Deliverable at any of the ports o» the Dela. ot j lfr -
, w%e —who have also 011 band at their lores, a Q,r to
I, quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Coru—Letters by —~~ij —
the p«(l will tie attended to. *-
Le'Vi HoUingswortb & Son. '"r'HA
augu.l »8. 1 ret
0 ~ foil SALE, Kn: ' l a "
: S A L IS BURT.
0 A LARGE and well improved farnv, contain- n j ai a „
s Xi. upwards of twimty-five hundred acres ol le r , | ln( j
0 vel fertile land, remarkably well adapted tq graU, c j odt
,j and every kind of gra'n; there are now or« hun
drcd acres of Timothy meadow on it, perhapsnot
excelled, from which, I have cut this year bet ween
one hundred and eighty, and two hundred tons oi 3,44
c hay; upwards of three hundred acres mori of this I c
land may be converted into meadow, equai to-tliat
at already made, the greater patt of which may be I J O
ce watered at a small eip'ence. There are on thi» | , >c
land, a commodious two (lory d, welling house, a c
completely finilbed, with ten rooms and a paCag.-, j
eight of the rooms have fire places; a portico in I
" front, fifty Icet in length, and eight wide; a larg<? | ( '
paled garden, a well of excellent water in the yard.
also a barn seventy-two feet by twenty-fix, with -5»"
, fileds at the fides.and enda, fullicient to hold sixty j
" heap of black cattle, a well couftru&edftable-, fui-1 3>/
ficient to hold twenty horses ; with every other! 33 >/
building that may be convenient or ufeful for a J 33*^
CC ' lar"e family; upwards ol tbreeJiundred apple trees
P i' (just beginning to bear; ol grafted fruit, B,'
wuh a number of cherry, pear, quince, and dame- 1 o,i
foil trees, upwards ol two thousand bearing peach 1
trees. About one lourth of tin# land is cleated, and |
j under good fence ; ths paflurc lands are wed taken, I
C j with red clover and other valuable grass. Ibe re- 1
mainder is in woods and generally well timbered. I
The whole is well watered, having > fev :ral constant l
'' * springs; and two Breams running through differ. | 3
~'^ n ent parts thereof, on one of them is a small couo- I ,
rJ try grift mill, aud a saw mill. The purchaser can j 14
have immediate po(f»fiion, and may be accommo- I ;
dated with twenty valuable field negroes, with ;
raa horses, black cattle, fhecp, hogs, and.every necef- .
' - fary farming utensil. Salifhury is situated in cx- j
cellent neighbourhood, and remarkable healthy, 1
„j is twenty-fix miles by mcafurement from Alexan- |
\ dria, about twenty miles from I'otomack bridge at 1 j
„, v the Little FaUs, and not more than twenty-five ,
_ from the city of WaMiigton, and on the pWI road I
" 1 Irom Alexandria to Winchester. A small part of I c
• the purchase money, will be required in hand; one,
twe, and three years credit will be given for the I
„ remainder. ... . I ad
Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give '
1 any gentlemen who apply to him an account of the j r
f .uation of this pla#s. For further particulars ap- ac ' e
v, ply t» the subscriber on the premises. e '
he " *' SAMUEL LOVE. full I
Virginia, Fairfax county c l u ®
'. ' September 24, 179«- law " co4,f
or a advertisement:
,' m " f j then
"TTTHEREAS James Cumminc ts" Co. late ol J(
mU " W the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have mi(
afiigned over all their cfiieiis, rtal, personal and w j|[
'° W ; I mixed, to tha lubferibers, for the benefit of all ; e
| their creditors, who fiiall fubfenbe the fald allign
r, •' ment within fix months from the date hereof. ejec
V B NO VICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to ali persons (
' 0 who are indebted to the said eflate, that they art,
" required to make immediate payment 01 their rcl
r pedive accounts, to the Afiignees, at their office.
"i No. 62, Dock ireet, in failure whereof adiom ;
ICe .. will be inflituted for the recovery of such debts a? ' .
r '~ ai e notdifchargedscfotdingly. f l '
'» wn > v l <r an >
John 1 ravts, I
John IVaddingtor, I Afl j gnees a: ,
Juraes' Taylor, I L
Cornelius Cam-gys J „ t
augu«t 18 "» wftlD pre
For Sale,at the Stores oi'the Sub-
fcribers, on Walnut ilreet Wharf, B i d
195 casks of nails aflorted oh
j" , 10 bales of fail canvass, from No. I to 8
0 5 3 casks yellow ochre nu
airirC 15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. eloh c j c
wtf London pSrticufai ) Ma( , e ; ra \vi ne «
Tenenffe do. in hogflieads an<,V.pit>
Ven, Old Port do. in hhdl.
palfed Empty Claret bottles .
titled, 6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflmcti &c.
fettle- aflorted for the Weft-India market
d the 4, 10, and, inch cables and 10 coil* of cordage
n the Writing fiates, ink stands aad presses
no purcheoas Jamaica rum
•didors I bale seaming twine
v time 160 bundles flieatl.ipg paper
Lfent Nicklin b* Griffith.
lor re- april 7 tuth&f.tf
ed °» ten DOLLARS KtV^AiLD.
IS r 0t "P\r-SERTED from my Detachment at Borden
of the U town ttii djy) a by l.ame Gtargi
Roirncn, a Native ot li elai.d al>out 25 years of age
or '' e " f lvJ (,-et tight or nine inches high, dark complec-
P d lf " tion, Mack'hair tied; black eyes well mad. and
>t year, nuartelfome, when in liquor is fond of singing—had
1 ill be on a blue Teaman's jackett light pantaloons, cot-
P™" ton Stockings round Hat, and hadinJer his Pa
n: fund- taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
:arages Whoever apprehends and tends the f*id Defer
rior to tsr to the Marine Camp, shall receive the above
:n hun- Reward.
„ ? HENRY A WILLIAMS,
rs II, 1798 Lt. Marines
w, FORTsale,
'ty- The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Monteith Maft.s#, from Laguira,
CWN3ISTI NC 0'
17,8. Fenegas of Cocoa
can be 4000 lb. of Fl»r* Indigo
ore ear- no Bales of Cotton
to fend 4 Packages ef GoatSkins
10 is ill jg Wtllings & Franck.
having J fjo. Eleventh (Irent.
E ivin e -july a; dtf -
. * Madras and Ventapaulem
.Sttxvd. handkerchiefs, _ I
Searfaukers and Carradarries, •
of the »eweft and meft approved patterns,entitled ;
)r which t }j e drawback, jureceived,
hirty fe- foa sale bt
afhier of Jlcx. J. Miller & Co.
No. 64, S#*th Front street.
may 18,
, . *
[Volume XIV.
SAMUEL PARKER,
r BRASS and BELL FOUNDER.
No. 137, Mulberry ltrett,
CONTINUES to carry 011 the brafsfottndiry
bu/tacfj as usual, where his toroier cufto
[ m s and the public may be (applied with call.
* ing* for machines to any pattern! rudder braces,
bcilts, &e for Ihips.
It msy be proper to add,, that, as it has been
reported he had declined the bufinels, S. P. takes
this means of iaforming the puhlia that ne it
_ toaking arrangements to carry it on flill more *
extenllvely, hoping thereby to comply prompt
ly with such orders as he may have to execute
•£s° Bills % of any size, call far churches and
other inllitulions ; printers rules, dec.
Qifto'oer 16 eo 3t.
Public Notice is hereby Lriven,
THAT Proposals under fealedcovers, will be
received on the behalf of the United States
until the twentieth day of Oiflober next, by Jo?
Nathan Jack for., Esq. at Hodou, Maflachuf< us,
Tench Fiancis, Esq. Philadelphia, Pennfylva*
n " nia, and John Swann, ftfq at Baltimore, Ma
r ryland, for supplying the following article* cf
' n s _' cloatliißjj, for the army of the United Statec*
en FOR INFANTRY.'
1 £,448 Uais,
"is Serjeant Coats
iat 5C4 ditto veils
'' e I 1,008 pairs do. woollen overallt
1,008 ditto do. linen ditl»
e ' »,016 ditto ihirts
164 Muficiins coats
I 7,680 Privates tea
rd-1 ' 7.944 ditto veils
ithi l i»888 ditto woollen overall
lty I ditto linen ditto
ut-l 31,776 ditto fLirts
tier 33,792 piirs of Socks
• a 33<7*i pairs of fcoes
■ee, I 8,448 Hocks®f bjack leather
ait, I 8,448 stock clasps.
ne-1 8,448 blankets.
** FOR CAVALRY.
en> 6 Musicians coats
re - I i 6 Serjeant coats
rej. I 26 ditto veils
ant I JO4 ditto Ihirts
fer- I 348 Prjpates coats
ud- I 354 ditto vefls
can 1416 ditto Ihirts
me- I j6o pair of Leather breeches
vith I 760 pair of llockiogs
cef- I 760 pair of boots I
LX ~ I 380 Stocks of black leather
ch y. I 380 Stock clasps
tan * I 380 Blankets.
at I ill. Every article (hall be made of material*;
V ( I equally good, and in form, or fafliion, couforiw
c , ably to patterns for the fame, sealed with the
rt ™ seal of the War-Office, and which will be de
°the P ofitcd with the Several gentlemen, empowered
1 to receive the ptopofals, as above mentioned.
ive I ad. Sworn infpeflow (hall be appointed on
( the I part of the United States, to examine and
sap-1 determiee upoa the several articles aforelaid,
j when the fane lhall be ready for delivery, with
E. I full power to rejaSl every article, which (hall not
equal, in goodneb of matorials, or to be madp
coiiformablyto, the felhioo of the standard pat-
I tern for the fame usnd no allowance (hall be
made, for any article whi h (kail be rejeiled by
them, for the causes aforelaid.
ia °' 3d. The proposals muftfpecify the number of
have articles, and their kinds, which the party is
1 in< ! willing to furnit, together with, the lowt*
" 1 prices for immediate payment in money, and al
gn so the prices, oa the loigeft term, or terms of
' r eredit.
; One third of each, and ®very of the several
af /* kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on
tje fifteenth day of December, one third on
dion- ihe fifteenth day of January, aad the remaining
•bts as 1 third the firit da y of Mlrc !j r,txt • an<l ! he
public will not be conlidered as" bound to receive .
any of the aforelaid articles of closthing, which
(hall not be ready for infpedlion, and delivery,
rnees at the periods agreed upon.
4th. The cloathing aforefiid wjjl he received
n the several ftaie«, at the pUces, and in the
tIP proportions following, viz. One third part of
a n h_ the whole at SpringtVeld, Mafl'achuletts, one
other third at Philadelphia, (Hie of Pennfylva
» uia, or at Lamberton, lUteof New-Jersey, and
oh» third at Baltimore, Maryland.
>8 flo contrail will be made, for a lefe
number of each of the aforcfaid articles of
6 M® cloathing, than is requisite for a company, vi».
FOR THE CAVALRY.
4 Serjeant Coats
4 ditto vefls
16 ditto fhirta
etJ gtCi 1 Musician Coat
58 Private coats
:ordage 59 ditto vefls
136 ditto Ihirts
63 flocks
63 Itock clasps
126 pair of leather breeches
irft. i.j6 pair of (lockings
' li 6 pair of boots
a&f " tf 6, blankets
D - FOR THE INFANTRY.
Bo ; dcn " 70 Hats
: 4 Serjeant coats
S ° f , 3ge 4d uo veils
»d. P and « ditto wooUtn overiU>
tig—had 8 diMO linen dltt "
,ns, cot- 16 ditto fiiirts
his Pan- « Mufi<.i*n» coau
64 Private coats
d Defer- (•6 ditto veils
e above 13Z ditto woolen overall!
131 ditto linen ditto.
AMS, 2* 4 ditto Shirt«
aBo pair of Socks
180 pair of Shoe*,
»o Stocks,
.enty ' ?0 SttK k cusps,
;uira, - 0 Blankets.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War.
War Department, ?
aift Sept. 1798- 5
it. TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
ftre«t. -pvEKERTED last night, a second time, from
dtf JJ the Marine Camp, DaviJ Lufer, a fife.—
' he had when he went away, a plain l.luejackft and
m vest light blneoverills,a round hat.which hadbeea
bound with vellow, an 4 which he had ripped off
pipe in his fiift dc/ertion, and a pair of new (hoes, he i*
, » Carpenter by trade, ha? grey eyes, fatdy hair
!,entitKa complexion and a nitch in his upper lip
His back is ftlU fore frem a flogging he got a few
r days ago He may ho difeovered by hu Cfcißj,
as he plays extremely well.
ntttreet. w W. UUH.ROWS Major Com. of the
4 ofcobrr {j. V*™ Corps.c ' ~ ' W*T i"1 '■ I »■«»
JuflimhottrJ it Jhips William Peart, A- j
miablt and J 'ran,from Lo*ida», j
A quantity ef Cannon,li«» 4,6 & 9 lb. 7 withl«lls I
Crraud™ lik f u , u!> i c .
Mufquetn, M> fqurtoone.CHtlaffes anJT a
Pillols, lor (hips. u , |
Rifled l-arrcl' u r,un>. Fowling Pieces, i ®
and HorfVniin'sKi.lols, ' f
Flints, c!iief!ffo- mulkets, in ' £•
„ Ui ? j ""
Regulation Dragoon Sabres, tvith Iron Scab
bards, in culcs o( 5# tach.
Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabre*, Sword, and CotlaKi., with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a Kcllel4 | al .
fortaicnt—For Sale by
Thomas & jho. Ret land.
Philad. 2<.
JAMES OLICHARDSM IIH7
HAVE this day returned from the eountrr >0
their S 1 OKE, No. <4, South Front street
Vrhere they heve lor fa'e, as usual. a l„r,'c and ge
neral affurtmcnt of European and EalMndia
DRT GOODS,
mod of which J,aye now arrived an.: are laneftrg,
from the different veffeU, from Hamburgh, Loo
don, Liverpool and Hull.
1 heir Culloraers by applying will find almofl '
every article genera'ly imported, and it as bw
prices for calh or credit,as ihey can be had clfc
tvhere.
N. B A few Cases of Nurenbcrgh TOYS, a
conjjgnment, to be fold by the cafe onlyt
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf f
The Sublcribers . *
HAVI JUST RPCFIV' D AW IfiVOICK OF
Choice Chcfhire &f Double Gloucester
cheese.
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.]
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
Of various iizes, per the Jane, from London, r
They have also for Sale,
200 Casks of Refined Sak-Petre, i>;
AK'JIA quantity of ol
Fine Castor Oil. 1,1
C. & Samuel IV. Fisher.
November r c ] t f ~
JAMAICA RUM, *~"~
/! Cargo now hnding rH SouthJlreet -wharf,
FOR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Bfores on the Wharf,
WHfI*ALSO OFFERS FOt SALE,
IiUANDY, id and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &e.
Nov. I. ,» t f
J ult ■ Arrived, ~~ ~
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and ' s
now landing at Walnut Stnretg?!;*rf, J 6
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimftonc. _
Anaflortment of valuable DRUGS, , j\
CONSISTING OF , I
Opium, AIoe«, Camharidea, Camphire, Senna, at
Cremor Tartar, &c. &c.
l'.flencesof Lr-ruon rnd Bergamot
Writing paper are
.' : tve«t cil in bottles and stalks
"lives, anchovies and cajers
Juniper berries ' '
/i L S o.—ltalian lutellrings
Satins
1 Crapes Fg,
UmSrc'.as
v Regaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars, j^_
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wic» of the fir it quality. aD
JAMES YARD. ™
November 3
ISR AEL ELE ASAN'i'S iff Co. jr
No. 74, South Second street,
Havs returnedfrim the country ; and havefor
SALE, as usual, a large assortment of j
DRYGOODS, A
To.parfcd in tlieJafi vcffeh froTi Europe, consisting at t
of articles principally suited to the preftut and ap- ftrti
proaching season
They are determined t« fell off very low fur
caH-, or Ihort crodit. '
Note. All persons indebtrd to ths late firm of '
lamutl Plea/tints ty" Som, are desired to make im
D ciiate payment to the fubferibcrs. 1
Israel Plea/ants b 5 Co. cen(
■ Noy - » _ _ _ d 4 w The
FRUITS, WINES, tfc. '
MALAGA WINE, in butts
&lERRY ditto, in quarter casks I
BRANDY, in butts and pipes J A
rfUN-RAISINS, in kegs ' Do 6
MUSCATEL do. in boxes
* BLOOME do. in do. N
SOFT SHELLED ALMONDS in sacks
OLIVE OIL tw boxes" of 12 bottles
iy rrER & jOrdan almonds in «
boxes, &c.
FOR SALT. BY occu
PETER lOJHft, ['"n
No. 178, North Market flreet. ral
Nov- t diot fpefl
The Subscribers
Are notu Landing—For Salt, who
St. Croix RUm —Muscovado Sugar impr
Red Port Wine, duA
In pipc», hogsheads and q*arter Calks. t ' lrol
Two thousand bushels of Salt,
Eighteen Iron Six p< unJers" proved at Woolwich. _Ce
Philips, Cramend, & Co. geog
November j diot clam
Last Notice to the Creditors and «y-
Debtors of John f
r J"HE firfl are rcquefletl to render their Ac-
X founts agaiiiit him, inade up to the 23d fj, e
1 djy ol August, 1797, the date of his AfEgn- ]
inent, that a Dividend ciay be promptly made, propj
'I he la Ato pay oil" their Accounts, Notes, and ther
Bonds, before the firft day of December entuing. Th
Any that remain ynfettled after that period, will pose
be put into the hands of aji Attorney at Law, keepi
fcr recovery. have
DAVID M. SHIELDS, Asa
Atiorney, (in fa&) to the ftn(lei
AlTigtiees and Trullccs of ib?w
J.SuIELD?. luire,
shcfuut-Ureet, Ne, aj. ' preflii
November I, 1798- dtf.
- FOR SALE,
AF 4 RM on the roa«l leading to State I fond, 1031
Ivwbin loin aud aii
sarKt'»5 arKt '» htghcfclitU ot cuitivatioo 3
- 4 ue " c
land. 1 bci» areon the pr«-xniie>, a new frame Houie l 7 ranc
and Uarn, with an cxcHknt kitchen garden, contain-' Geogi
jag g great lumber of iiuit tieet. —Imfncdiaje poflc l- On
ifon will idkes)
Tm icit-i apply to # Q»f
Thomas W % Francis* coi "
»,t. 3- S ° aot
• 'Jut Imported, I
Si~ j ron camion, lurfnici, proof,"
( j with tiicir canc-..i>v'' t.— 3, 4, t p •
li twtl* I t°uncetj,,; metl
ta i I Ca rd.i Ues, Woelw-i -h proof, wirh ca'rb.ges, stc.
a " c.ifi'i;>lev—l», ig ak.4 |4pounder>
< Cm non powdurin
jr Ruund, dmible Jicaded. ai: I cvuinidi-r ftot
0 Patent
JJ. 12, 24, e6 an. 1 , :8 or pr fqysr- foot, Iheeis 48
by 14 indits, fuitalle for vcfieis Irom io® to
*, , tore tens
Copper nails, bolts and fpikei
Bo irdirg I'iken.
cmlallM
'lilting kind*
al al- Tin-p|atrs No I —l-3 cross V"xi~>
Patin' SiVt in A(ks of <cwt. ench
"j 1-ondon porter anci brown ft»Bt, in cafcs ef 7 do?
bottl-d.
T IJ " Earthen ware is er tes, afP-rtrd
' - v 'k Ffr Sak by
tr r SIMON walicer,
• Pine near sth street.
d ge- Otiose - 9 . so f f.
~?OR SALE,
THIS OFFICM,
Lon- A FEW Copies ofan interesting Work, in
■'* Frenrh, enntled a Hißory of
-Administration of the French
Finances,
fs , a DURING THE TEAR 1796.
\ jflso. An Historical and Political View of the
dtf Adminiftrn'ion of thf French during
——' 1797* —of the causes which produc* 1
c d the «
ft er Revolution of the 4th September— 11
And of ihe refnlts of that Revielution. ;
ol.] PRICE 1 POLLAR EACH. <
' T.'iefe two political are from the pen ■
ion. r j • ce ' e^"[ att <l 'l'lvernoisjandcontain a thou- .
land u tercfting disclosures of the foffy, venality J
**<] profl.gacy of the different Usurpers who 1
TC, have reijrn#d i n France during the latter iiagei a
o> the horrible Revolution how pending in that 1
liiifcrablc and depraved coutfiry. *.
Icr. - ' § a
h~ Printing Work, "
7 rf, Of. Every Kind,\
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
r, NOTICE,
At the Office of the OAztTTt of the
United States,
oa. 13. dtf. ■
The Subscriber's Office
Being REMOVED from the COUNTRY
and ' s now OFtN at the USUAL PLACE, No.' aE
j6, North F6urth Strut.
SAMUEL CALDWELL C!
November i. itd g c
S, I A PERSONS having any legal eleinand< a* |
IX gainst the cftate of IVUliam Pcrkin,, dece fed, * !
na of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are .'J 1
* requeued to furniih their accounts properly au
thcnticafed and all persons indebted to said cftate
are r.-qaclled to make payment to the fubferiba in
Philaaelphia. gy
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adniinr. ca
Odobcr 3t(l, 1798. . w j
To Be j
For Sim Months, from the firfl of Novem- th
her next, f "°
A COMMODIOUS three story btirk hoiife," w3
f*lenfive back buildings (ituated ti c
' NO * 'J3> Stmth Second Street.—For tepffis o-i
"PP'y t& fen
JAMES LYLE. ne,
.South Seventh, tiear Chefnyt Street, far
• O*nober a 9 dtf rol
To Be Let, dol
And immediate pojjtfjion Given,
/\ CO M M ODIOU S Three Story Brick House the
-L i- with convenient back buildings, tituated hei
ig at the north weft corner of Third a,id Walnut me
p- flreets.—For terms apply to t hi
M Dr. THOMAS PARKE. qm
No. 20, South Fourth Street, tak
of Prober ?q dtf am
n To Let, thl
THE house, No. 78, North Se
c©nd street, with or without a (lore and If aid- wa
The house is large and convenient ; enquire of the
John Litle, No. 40, North sixth street. try
Jflober 31 . w&fa tf
TO BE LET ' fori
And immediate pojfejjion given, w h h
A LARGE convenient, w.il finilbed honfe, „,f.
No. 41 j, High street, lately occupied by f
liodtor Wiflar, with coach house and liable*
Enquire of . WILLIAM SHE AFP. not
No. 168, High fireet. tr y
Noy - *• dtf ]
A French Classical £s? Mathematical mei
SCHOOL. the
n be opened on Monday the aid. instant ting
'* at that l«g« commodious room formerly {tQ\
occupied by Mr. Leo in Norris's Alley, No 15 >
nearly apposite the City Tavern; under the dire.-.'
tion of Messrs. Smith and Chandler both of libe- -8
ral education, and long experienced in their re- poll'
_ fpeilive profeflions—As they intend under, the inft<
patronage of a discerning public, permanently C
to eftablilh themselves in this undertaking, their vr
whole study »nl attention will he djvoted to the .
improvement «f their pupils —Thcfe will be 4011- lca c
duAed upon the latest and most approved plans, Jun<
through a complete course of academical fiudital Nan
or those parts only that may be pointed out, as more h a d
immediately adapted to their particular views in life 1
l - —Certain portions of their time will be assigned for , -
geograph) ,hiftory,extra3s, compoCtion, and de- " ers
clamations in French and English, in order to form
T cir 'y habits of writing and speaking with propri- faiSVs
«ty—Vifits from parmts and literary charailers, i ft.'on
tending to excite a spirit of emulation, will be I
gratefnlly r.ceivcd. The hours of study are from W *' l
9 to 12 A.M. and from » to 5 P. M. was
They offer to tranflatcUie Englift.Freneh.Spaniih Ami
" rod Portirguefe languages ; and to draw in their tatio
j P ro W nitdes and stile, all kinds of writing, whe- bour
11 thcr legal, commercial,or epiltplary. .
The firft Monday in November, they also pro- W '
1 pose to open an evening school for French, kook- a ' on<
, keeping,fiirveying and navigttion, of which they conn
have aprafiical as well at theoretical knowledge, had <
As a number of French gentlemen will attend, the docii
; fluents of their language, by continually cor.verf- p
i i"? with them, as well as their Uachers, will ac- i ,
quire, with the principles, a facility of ex
prefSon. conti
AVIS AUX FRANCOIS : M
Meff'rs Chandler et Smith ont rae ;"
l'haancur <}■: prsvsnir MM. les Francois, quilsfe . "7
' propofenf d'ctablir une Ac.demie en NorrU alley, in
' No. 15 ; prefqwe vi -a-vis la Bourse ; dans la- fame
. quelle 011 cr.feiguera la lanjue Latine, Angloife et fider;
. Francaife : I'.Aritlimetique, la tenue des livrcs, la ,}, ele
- Geographic, ct les Mathematiques. ,
0:i fait auID toutcs forte* de traductions dans les
dites Ungues: ct d»nne lecons chcz les particuliers. conti
Taddrefle a l'hotel de Mr. Vallctte as Tl
coin dc 4cme rue ct Cherry alley. to m
Odder jj, godtl CI %
i A
proof, | GLEANINGS ' ]
wi 9 ! FROM LATE LONDON PAPERS, i
es,&c. CONTINUED.
MADRAS, Sept. 24..
Captai 1 Packtnham, having
' Wlt '' , ' le Rtfiftance and Intrepid,
oe to Bombay cruiferis, to Caupong, the prin
cipal Dutch fetrlement on great Timor, tile |
place was summoned, and furrtrndered on
the fame terms as Amboymi, (private pro
perty spared) and lieut. Frost commanding |
the Intrepid, was to have h»en appointed
Governor, and had taken a house on {hire, j
7doz and rcmaved his baggage, &c. to it }an
hour was Appointed for Capt. Packenham
to meet the Diitch Governor at the House
of Frofl, to fettle.matters.—lt appears that
en. 3 p'=n was laid, that the indant Capt. Pac- .
■> tf. kenham (hould put his fuot on fliore, the
j mafiaere of him, and all the then on
j 'hore, was to tak>- place; fortunately for capt,
i P-ckenham lie did not go, but sent his boats 1
', in at this time there were in lieut. Frost';
house, himUl;, the furg.on of the Intrepid,
:nch Mr. Mercer, the purfrr of the Refinance,
and the Dutch Governor. On the boat's ■
touching the (hore, a party of Malays rushed
nftlie ,nt ° hnll, " n d the furgeou's head r
urine W®* off in an inilant. Mr. Mercer secured v
oduc- himfelf behind a bed, and efcapsd unper- 1
ceived—two Bombay feapovs told Fro 11,
off, and had the pretence of mind to throw
tion. aside his,u«iform coat, and in consequence
escaped ; the poor feaptpys were cut down,
pen anC * 'V' 1 " ''cads exposed on pikes to their (
hon- ' ame nting companions on board. Capt. Pact
ility kenham immediately opened a heavy fire on
who 'hepiace, under cover of which he landed
apes an efficient force, and drove the Malays off, v
that leaving about 200 deadj?n the spot. Eve
ty thing was then destroyed, private as well '
___ as public, and the place itfelf was blown P
up.—We had about twenty killed in this
treacherous affair. °,
tl
t Law report.
*• COURT of KIXG'j BENCH,
GUILDHALL, July ij. v '
~ " r
CHRISTIt 17. StCRiTAN.
1 This was ar. iiiion upon a policy of lufur-
No. aoce.
Mr Erfltine for the Plaintiff stated, that his be
LL Client having it in contemplation to fern) a car- th
I 6° Virginia to Hremcß, canfisd a policy of cn
t a .» Insurance to be effected upon the Pej»gv from
fed, Virginia to Bremen. It happened however, ,
are , ) )lt 'he Peggy could not fail at the appointed wl
au- ''me, therefore the cargo was {hipped on board m;
late the Mercury, and the underwriters agreed that*
r in the Mercury {hould he fubfthuted tor the Peg- thi
gy. The (hip failed from America, and was
captured by a privateer from .Nantz, into «
_ ' which port (he was carried and condemned foi
want of a role d'equipage. In this cafe, though
there was a reprelicntation to the underwriters
that tliis {hip was an American, yet there was
no warranty to that effefl, and, in point of
fact, the plaiiltlff paid the greatell prcm nm that
' was paid for the infur<n*ce of yeflcjs of aßy na
tion for that voyage. The defuice set up in .
ma this cafe w as, tv.it there having been a reprc- , .
fentation that this was an American (hip, it was !' lr:
necessary to give her that character, arid it was 13 *
et. further contended, that by her no; having the "ic
; role d'equipage, {be hid not all t.iofe neeeffary
documents. When a man ga*e a warrantry poj
that a {hip was American, he -yas certainly f ur
roound to have on board all the papers which by
life the law of America were neseflajsy to conflitute "Z'
led her an American—but the law of America bv no
lut means required that American vcflVls should hive ke<
thu role d' equipage— quite the contrary. The the
qucftion then was, whether the French having ord
et. taken this vefiei without the flighted ground, air;
and having condemned her with equal
this violation of the law of nations was to be r. ,
csnfidered as a proof of her not being Ameri- J ~
£- can. He was aware by that general law which J
- was known by the name of the law of nations, P re
of the deci(ion of a competent court in one cour.- mu
try was eonfidered as binding in another. This
_ was undoubtedly the c.afe where gave <-i] s
force to thai law by aequiefcing under it; but
where nations differed upon the conftruaion of 1
the law, and it was attuaily roide the fuhjetf of
warf ß re between them, (as was likely to be the ' eu^
J_ ease between America and France) then he could £n j«
not conceive the decision cf a court in one coun- dur
, t try as binding upon another. t }, c
By the law of America, this (hip had c- to
- very necessary document to prove her A- the
II merican, and therefore, he contended, that
the Plaintiff was fully juftified in reprefen- Thi
nt ting her as an American (hip, was con- ties,
ly fequently iutitled to the verdia of the Jury, arm
5- Mr. Bell proved the inl,trance of the (hip refti
J*. Peggy, and afterwards the alteration of the that
.. policy by the substitution of the Mercury havr
i< nftead of the Peggy. " t ; 011
y Capt. Keown. who commanded the men
Mercury, pioved chat {he failed from Amer- thie
icaon the 20th May, 1797, ar.d on the22d '♦
S( June following was taken and tarried into zctt<
», Nantz. The (hip was American, and he not 1
* had all the papers on board which were publ
* by the law of America necessary to prove
_ her an American {hip.
! Mr. Gibbs for the defendant, said, tjie
- j fafls iu thii cafe were very few, but the que- T
j ft.on to be decided was «ery important. He the t
' was ready to admit, that in this cafe there Prcfi
was no aAual warranty that the (hip was in th
!, American, but there was a (Irong reprefen- form
r tation to that effea. Tlii> vessel was then ny ol
bound to have such documents as by the of m;
law of nations (not by the law of America mand
. alooe) (hewed (he was an American* A ring
r count of competent jurisdidlion ui France tatht
. had decided that (he had not the uecefliry (hew
5 documents and it was not the province of ward
*. an English court of justice to review or alter retire
. t the decision of a French court ; —on the rumi
contrary, they were bound by its judgement. A
Mr. Gibbs was proceeding in his argu- fpeft-
I ment. when. ' t0 th
. Lord Kenyon stated, that tfee question playe
, in this cafe was the fame or very nearly the thou;
. fame as that wh'ch was now under the con beic;;
: iideration of the court of king's bench, and clega
1 therefore he recommended thai it (hotild be fed o
, made into a cafe, or a special verdift for the au az
conCdenttion of the court. of j\ :
The parties having assented, it was agreed in< to
to put this quelHon into the form of a afe, lon-a
c: a fpccial verdid if jieccflary. " of 01
#
£RS j £>omeflic
! _ NEAV3URYPORT. Oa. 26.
| As a toftimotiy of refpedt to our esteemed
•eld * Prelidcnt, a tiumber s os the citi
.ce ec , /ens o! ffewbtiryport, convened at Mr
epu., Dayjnport'j tavern, on Friday the 19th
inftaiit, and after partaking of an entertain-
r ' le ' ment provided for the occasion, th« follow
e on . ing toasts wfre drank.
nd'n°" ' J ° HM AD AMS ' President of the U.
' States—the firm and enlightened patriot,
A. O _ e | w: 'ofe natal day we celebrate. May he re
, . ce ' v ethe fitpport tlat his merits claim, from
! ' " r! every friend to the interests of America,
ri iam yfrlamt and Liberty—three cheers.
ho " [c GEORGE WASHINGTON —The
S p fti-efiriau, without superior, and the war
c' rior without equal.
tnC Song, IVajhinglon or IMrrty.
en on 77je Independence of the United States—
c. pt. w hat we gained in battle, we will neverlofe
■ «»! hy intrigue.
So'-g, HailC Jumlia.
•ep'd, INCREASE SUMNER, Esq.—The
a.) npcompliflied gentleman, the enlightened \
uihed j ur l^e c ''g n| fied magittrate.
• , The American miniflers of foreign courts—
ured t ' y PP ort t ' lc dignity of then- go
"no'er- veinrrlent 5 yielding every thing to jultice,
, r " but nothinjr tn menace. f
TIMOTHY PICKERING, Secretary ;
hrow ate n,a y '"corruptible integrity, ever j
contr.ft him with the mercenary Talleyrand
"■'' ce and his contemptible coadjutors,
the'ir OLIVER WOLCO i'T, Secretary of j
p ac 'he I reafury—may the revctiues of the U. "
e on States, ever be under the management of an
, , able and an upright Financier. 1
! off JAMES Mc. HENRY, Secretary at P
£ ve ' War—may he njake speedy arrangements
„„ii to P a y the tribute due to the French Re
well public.
this BENJAMIN STODDER, Secretary j
of the navy—u'ider his direQion, may the
the fleets. <if America hercomroefco n ,
from the ravages of unprincipled marauders, ci
The Army of the United States. it
The Nnvy of the United States. a !
A firm Alliance of the Legitimate Go
' vernmcnteoftheworld, against the ferocious ™
principles and ambitious views of French ol
Democracy. vi
jf llr . 1 The American Clergy. re
The Citizens of Newburyport—may so- 11
t his ber industry and decent economy, enable
ear- them to afiift their government in «very -
Y 0! emergency.
Rom The Fair Sex of the United States
ited' w^en 'heir hu/hands becomes sansculottes,
iard ma y 'hey wear the breeches.
:hat< The nations cf the world in alliance with
>e£- theJJnited States. JV
was q
into
for SALEM, Ofiober 23.
?e ? rs ExiraS "f a Le " er f rom - an American Gen
was tleman abroad, to hit friend in this country,
of dMed
hat " Li sbon, September 3.
n . a " have lately seen some Paris papers, r
w _h'ch contain n charming dose far the Jaco- e J
Aas an y vvfr e capable of doing it, this o«
vas 13 one 'hat will stop their mouths, or at leafl
,he "ick in their throals a little whil-.
ary " Jourden (De la Haute Vienne) re
try ported to one of the Couacils. a plan for
!l 'y furnifhing the government with a Handing /
ut e " rm y of a m 'Mon of menu ! He fays, the , 0I
, n0 Republic being fuirounded by Kings, who , t ,
ave kee P ,ar g c armies, it becomes necessary for bit
"he the French government to keep one ?.lfo, in qu
ing order to defend the liberties of the people
»d, against eternal violence. ior
°be In ° nC papcr ! he Editor {mark this, J
rri- F - d ' lor °f a p"p'r~} inculcates the necdlity
ich vtfivere rtjlriaicn on the pr'fs, in order to
ns> prevent the lic:nti»ufnefs, which now so r! ; 1 '
jr.- much prevails.
his Thirdly, a Member of one of the Coun- |; ()1
ue cils, (Baiileul) concludes, after a long ha- Ne
rangue, that a public debt is a public blejjing. Fr?
o j- It appears by the statement of Citoyen Bail- rea
he that the Republic is in a fair way c f
jld enjoying that blefling: for he fays, that ,a '"
in- during ten months (fiom Sep'emb-r 1797) y
the receiptsof the government did not amount
e- to "More tlfnn One third the expenditure for
A- the fame period ! T
rat '• Tine reason of these things is obvious.
n-. The people must be preoared for new feveri
n- ties. We {hall fo»n hear that this (landing w ] )1(
}'• army i? organized ; that the press is miire et, C
ip restrained (ifpoflible) than at present; and
he that new taxes arc imposed. These three
ry have been (landing topics in the declama
tions of the Jacobins against our govern- Q
le ment j I suppose they will in turn form
r- thiee articles of their creed,
d «• As you do not receive. French ga- T '
0 zcttes in America now, perhaps it would
ie not be amifa to gii-e thef? three fadls to the
■e public" i.out
'<s bnpr«
e ALEXANDRIA, November 1. *A
;- Tutfday last, being the annivcrfary of
e the birth day of our beloved and patriotic
e Picfidcnt JOHN ADAMS, was observed
s in this town with military honors— The uni
- form fompanies of Militia; and thecompa-''
11 ny of Silver Grays, went through a variety T(
e of manoeuvres and evolutions, under the com. W' 1
a mand of capt. Ccorge Denekie. After si- . ''
L ring several rounds ix evidence of their at- ,mn
e tathment to this goo* man, as well as to
(hew that they approbate his conduit re
s wards the insidious FrencS Direaorv, thev J C
r retired in tlie evening with the utmost deco
e rum and harmony. -*-* 1
. A Hand of colours, presented by the re- futun
fpeaed consort of our veneiable Cmcinnatus
to the Company of Silver Grays, was (if. „
1 played for the firft time on that dav ; and, cornr
: though a variety of incidents prevented their
being entirely completed, they had a very bu! ""
1 elegant appearance—Thccolours arecompo. tcrim
: fed >,( wh tc silk ; tbe device is, however.'o,,
: ar. azure blue ground. The Colder Eagle ment
of America hr.s a portrait cf General Wall-1 uot f
! inr tou fufpecded from its beak ;in one 1 f
, j lon -a bunch of r.rrows. so tie other a bratidi
{of 01i« ;a "A furmounjrf by 16 ft ari , in- $
"j * ' diqatJve of t!i; of 'States - -u'The
3U Motto—'• FIRM tN DEFENCE; OF
OUR COUNTRY."
cemed AUC, 7 fSTA. C&ofcer iS.
c citi- f° iht 9 fflZElfS of GEORGIA.
: Mr- . a time whcn ff] « ruin of our country
his attempted by every which depravity
•rtain. can frggcft.or villa.ny execute, it must afford
)110 w- P ecullar fatisfaftion to the friends of order
and good government to observe the unani
le U. mUy "' h,c J l ha PP ;l y prevails among our ci- '
itriot, tlTens - But while we uuite, let us not re
be re- lax OUr Preparations for the mo st vigorous
from , T ' 3 a wc 'l authenticated fad,
». ™ 3t , Fr s e ents have lately been f U pp] v .
hecra. ,n * t,le Ind J ,a " "twn. with arms and ammu.
- The n, V° n ' a " d d '4"butmg to them presents to
war- *. hr V am ,unt r fnr the purpose of
them t. commit depredations on the fr on .*
wn 3 u Geor g'* and South Carolina.—
W, ' ettler ° r «°* the Indians will he lndHce d
rlofe to e '!S a e e . in a Scheme which must inevitably
terminate in their deftruftioj. is yet uncer
tain it becomes us.liowever to be prepared
-The ,0^ an 7 '"convenience or violence which may
cned re hi It from folly and indiicretion.
>«— OFFICE,
S°- TA™ PMadetphia, 29th Oaobtr, 1 708.
:tice, LETTERS for the British Pack
et (for Falmouth) will be received
ever M this office until the 6th
rand Member; at 6 o'clock, P. M.
The inland -postage to
I™ must be paid,at this office.
>f an Office of the Mayor of
the City of Philadelphia, is held for the
r at Preknt at the State House in the Court
ems room - 03. 18.
C " Eight Dollars Reward.
t?ry A ROBBERY was committed or>
the t ' ic I ' n^a nt, a' the house of the fub
crra hcr '? thc town£hi P "f Solebyry by two ncwo
nlrn ■ tt.f-y r;irrir-ti 3 quantity of casK ; a p^ek
:rrl - et book, containing fone valuable papers; wear
ing apparel, See.—One »f the negroes is a middle
agel man,known by ihc name of Joha'White, for-
Go- merl * a rc fi dent of Phi'adelphia, has aij hnpedfr
. inent >n his speech—the other supposed to be
a runaway, about eighteen years ®f age, of
nch of middle stature. Whoever A cures the aforefaid
villains so that they may be brought to jtiOice, fliall
receive dollars leward, or four for either of
f 0 them taken separately.
.1.1 ~ ISAIAH TUOifci-MONEY.
Soll - ,bur y, 10 Mo- 179t S—jt.ia*
Female Education.
>— James A. Neal's School,
te8 > FOR THF TUITION OF
TOUNG LADIES,
'ith Will re-commence on Monday, the 12th 0/
Novemler, at his School Room, N». 28.
Carter's 4Hey.
C)* The Evening School
en- W ' ll V'*" l ' tu u f uaI > <" Jams time
and place.
r - T ' Novemler 3 eod^t
LAMrB L A c K.
rs quantity cf Lampblack wis left during the
' Fever, at the Offic* of the Gazette of the Dnit
l"' Sratei,—fuiSpofcd ihrnygh n-ifinke. Tke
his owner is reqneftcd to call and tak< it away,
aft Nov. 3.
TOBE REN IEDT
r c ( rfnd immediate pojjtjjion given,)
fl A LARGE thic<; hory BRICK HOUSE,
1 " fi;i:ate in VV'plnut-JtrtfCf—The rooms are
■ «<>mmoilious,airy and private—fr m which,and
ho ,15 central pyfit en, if is thcrujiht to be an eligi-
For hie lituation far a Public Office. For terms, en* >
in quire of BXNJ. tT. MORRIS.
□lc -At/ 0 A commodious Ware Houie, in Tay
lor's Alley,
j s Prober ig. . .qtawzw
ity Whereas the certificate of two
t0 (bares of the Bank of the United States in the
f () name of Samuel Jtnory, of London, banker.
No .jTued in lieu cf 11593, 11594, were
forwarded from Loudon by the British packet
ln " CouMefi, of Leicester, capt. Ucdd, bound for
'»• New-York, which patkrt was captured by the
!g. French, and the faffi certificate loft ; and for the
il. renewal ot yihuh, application is made at said.
( f Bank, and all peri'ons cortLcrned are desired to,
, take notice.
Cf.KMENT EIDDLE.
J Th Oa.«6, 1798. co6w
jr Notice is hereby riveiv,
THAT -ipplicarion wilite m.ide to +.c treasury-
S. of thc Unitw 'tatei for the renewal of the follow
i. Wt certificates of fix per cent-, funde.l debts, Hand- "
.nthr name-os Jan, GaSridlc R. ;: auJ, of Geneva,
ft which weicioll from on board tne B\vallcw faai.-
e ct, Capt. Kitid, from Falmouth to New, York.
Mr
e No.3i9 [f . Reg,office , 9 thMay '95, lee r -. for
I-. f*- 1 * 1 ' Uo - *4thdo. 40. t dv. for jjoo
Odobcr 24. Wm " g ' Fran i'-
n XT • —"TV ~ COd6w.
Notice is herebygg i ven ~
'* rvTftll vfrr wiu be " ,ndt to Tr « f "-
d P„° V ,e ' ni,ed for ilxj renewal of .he:
e aST?. ,? rti -- e ¥ Cf Pcr C« t Funded
- .ock, standing in thc mm,, of y,h„ Cartrmdl, of
l.»udon, rhc si.d f C fn loft on •
kT ,v, e "m V p t cket ' Ca P tlin Kidd. fcom
Falmouth to New-York.
Ac. 3072 1 Cert, for 2000 dulls. ~t
f 2964 1 do. 5000 t
c lO >s 77 1 do 3000 J
i .... . H Ft amis.
Ply jdelphi.l, august <o. m(jw
AN APPRENTICE
r TO THE PRINTING BUSINESS
; Will be taken at this '
immediate application be made
[ N™' '• - - / . 6t
r Haines & VVm. Jones,
BHO leave toir:form theuKfriend* and the publie,
that they hive commenced a Co-parruerfhin
in thx BUSINESS, which will it
• future be tarried on under the firm of
HAINES (r JONES,
• n Market flreet, No. ijt. one ioor above the
, corner of Kcurth,—where thry pfefeme (at lrat
r to h»pc) that their atttntionfo, and knowledge ia
buSoefj, tU.ir determination to lei ve on the tit
tcrnu, and their luiowk attachment as Native A
merieans to the Government and C«nllitution ol
1 their Cour.tiy, will entitle them to the er.eouragt
■ I tuencof a get.erous public. Althcueh they car
. I not foafl of having BMaiied rficm Experience in
-any part of Euro r e, yet:l»ey t-k- tile of
pledging thtsr.f:lvj>, that ihc,.- a ..-nttfaAure fl.il
be 1-fc.nnf: muf a. tl»i» ciiv.
1 y Jaiii -- tuthstftijis 2Dap'£
BOSTON, oaobei- 29.
_ t*i wifdomc
From trance. UNtOJi
On Saturday, 'he brig Cyrus, capt. Ed- IS>vf) w
w,uVl Tyler, reached this port from Nantz; Congref
having passports of proteftion from the fcrts o p our sI
and privateers of the Republic. Joseph our f r J en
Woodward, Esq. who came passenger in
the Cyrus, is the bearer of dispatches from p
the French Government ; which were im- The 1
mediately sent on to the Secretary of State. w hich h
Mr. Woodward, furnifhea the following t his t.
fjote, accompanied with the protectory which is
passports. States,
Extract of a Utter from the Minister of the Ma- It is
rint and the Colonies, to the principal Com- a bound
mi fit dries, dated 24th Thermidor, 6th year, of the d
• t I remark Citizens, by tfee correfpon- ail the
deuce of the greater part of the admimftra- vidnals.
tors of the ports, that the Embargo, re- Enti,
ceutlv laid on the American velTels, hasoc- during I
cafiorcd the detenCoo of their crews. The well be
intent ions of the government mull have been oners,
badly nnderftood to have cccafion d t.ie ad- promifi
option of a measure that appears to put us way, w
in an hollile attitude towards the United e.lea.
Stales. wfiiW its afts indicate, mi the con- For
thrV, that it desires to maintain good in- red tha
telliirence between the two Republics. I Europe
recommend to you therefore, Citizens, to hfhmen
ordain as soon as you (hall receive the pre- mong;
sent, the liberation of all the Americans
who may have been considered as prisoners dilute
of war,' ip consequence of the Embargo laid
uponth*ir vtffels." „ „„ mv _
<*«<>■> _ EBRUIX '
Mr. W. has also handed us the following
particulars:—the public bring already ac- •
quaioted with the f.tuarion of our affair*, in 3.
France, it the time ef Mr. Gerry s depar
ture from that country, it is only jieceffary
to mention what ha, taken place fmce.
Mr. Dupont, late French Conlul at Phi-
Udetphia, p relented to the Direftory a de- fufl
tailed memorial .f the depredations of the * «m
Fre/ich We* India privateers, on the A-, ™ do,
merienn Commerce, (about the time that
Mr. Gerry It ft Parts,) which appeared to
make feme irapreflion on the minds <M its
member., who pretended to have been ig
norant of it, until that mopient—but (till
the Embargo was not takfn off, nor our
Seamen then in prifam, released from their
confinement. M(
A few Hays after the failing of Mr. Cher
ry, a large number of New-York papers
reached Paris, by way of Bourdeaux, con- Tiic
taining a great number of addresses UVthc arrive
Prtfident of the United States, with sundry (
ail sand debates of Congress, which bespoke p er i e n
so much union of the people, wisdom and u |^ t i[
firmnefs of the government, that the long happy
entertained hope of separating a free and
happy people from the gonMnment of its 70
own deliberate choice, was then given up. <
About this time Doctor Logan, of Phila-' T
delphia, arrived in Paris, by the way of v j(j tc
Hamburgh, who found his way dire Sly to y our
fame of the Membtrs of the it po{ , r
appears by hi» memorial, that he conni'med I
what had but jiiti began to be believed, that w j lo
France had now but very few friends left in we |j
America. A few days produced the release j tHC |
of the American fhipphg and seamen, with
ail order to all the forts in the Republic to tQ j f
treat all Americans well that might arrive
there ; these meafares were communicated 1 m(;jr
to Mr. Skipwith. our Consul General in
Paris, reqneflirig t(iat they might be com- t
municated to the government of the United I an j
States, as focn as possible, and at his re- •
(jueft, a letter of fafe condtift or proteftion {a ? n
was granted for the brig Cyrus,'to carry
dispatches for the Secretary of State, of the j t h
United State 3. 1
£We h >pe the above will convince the few I I
yet doubting Americans of the neceflity by 1
of national defence. A government will i 3 ir
nevttr have ic in its power to preserve oefs
peace with honor, until it has in its power ; n fli
to carry on -war with vigor.—We warn j and
our readers, however, not to trull to the (ho'
tears of the Crocodile ; from dearcxpe- thii
rience we have learnt that the French are I f or
not to be believed ; we well know that I (hil
their promises and their pitcrufl are alike 1 not
made to be broken ; and that the mod I '
fr.lemn oaths of a nation, which has ab- 1 m e
j.ired its God, mull ntceffarily be compo- to
fed of more flimfy ft off, " than dreams are j arc
made of" If the directory are fmcere in Iyo
their advances towards a reconciliation, j by
let them evince it by immediately indem- I m |
nifying our merchants for the depredati- I 0 u
onsofthofe pirates, whom they have I p P:
commifiioned, and with whom they have 1 th<
(hared the booty. Let them also apolo- tre
gife for their infolenee in reje&ing our 1 f t{
ambaffador6. Let them do this, and we |
will then fiy, that the present govern- ha
ment of France, amid the multitude of I p r
its crimes, has performed ONE jufl and c 0
honorable aSion. Yet even this one, like I
/.of in Sodom, will not be able to save I
them from deftruftion. Otli-.r nations will J "
revenge, though We should forgive ; and >
we are assured by a very rtfpcdtable cha- V
rafter, who has lately traveled through I
the interior of France, that two thirds I
even of the French themselves are in fa-1
vor of the n-ftoration of mouarchy. Such I
alas ! has been the dtfpotfm of liberty.] J g
Never p<ih?p« fmce the exifttnee of the j
United Starts, as •» nation, have they beeu I
exposed to more imminet danger than at the I
prtfet moment. Threatened with ruin, by I
the it'fidluuj intrigues of a nation, who, I g
devil-like, does not hesitate to ft nop to the I j
mod debasing artifices, ia order to accum- j
pli(h her hellish designs, it behoves eyer.
gooJ citizen—every honed man. to liand
tirm to his post, at this trying crisis, and
wit inflcxib'c fonitude, prepare to refill the
shock which is meditated against his unof- 1
fending cojintry.—The eyes of the devour
ing monster are upon us, it watches with 1
fiend-like vigilance, our every movement,
and (hould be UupiJ enough, to be feduccd 1
v
by the fj:rrs I .'gi'late triiTd candufl Tias laij
for us, wtf are goHe forever. The fate <
our eleftions will be the criterion, by whic Are
(he will judge of th? ft:e :gth of her parti
Wc however trud, that such will be tl _
wisdom of our eledfons, and such a fpiritj L ng Try
UNION, ENERGY and AMERICA? Geo
ISM, will (howitfeif at the next session j Ma
Congress, as will confound the dark defigi Am
1 of our enemies, and arrell the admiration j . >■ «
1 our Friends'hroughout the world.
' PROVIDENCE, OftobttJ7. 'be Dan
The honorable board of commiflionjt Europe,
• which had been fitting f>r some time pa Thomas.
in this town to ascertain the river St. Craii Ship i
r which is nn eastern boundary of the Unil4 Maria, 1
States, rose last Thursday. J| 'he 21ft.
It is said that their umnimotw refuUi, zen. -
- a boundary which will aflign a large portj>, ber with
. of the difpated lands to each and qift Daphne,
- all the aftual possessors and claims of idi- ,
t. vidnals. ~
Entire harmony is said to have fublted Matthev
:- during this lengthy and laborious * trial as do. and
e well between the agents as the comtifii- The
n oners. This is the firft experiment of om- Philadel
I- promising national disputes in this fumiary sent intt
is way, which has been carried into comlete arrived
d effeft. . . = hufetU
I- For the creditof human nature.it nho- States
II- ped that it may prove an ufeful lesson t the league.
I Europeans now at war, and lead to the 4ab-
to lilhment of a system of perpetual amit a- ult. Sh
e- mong all civilized nations. brig Fa
ns * The pipers in this cafe are said tocon- on trii
ts dilute eight volume* in folio. from L
id lowa y>
BALTIMORE, November 2. Newbu
Captain C'aus Sibber, commander c the erly, c
(hip Carolus, bound from Hamburg toßal- ork,
timore informs us he was chafed for 36 ours Poll, 1
and boarded by a French privateer, 3ng. Laurel
in' 2 4> 35. W. lat. 37, li, N—' The priueer ! Cap
ar . he thinks, mudhave beena Turk, (we link jon t <
irv rather realty French) for as soon as catain } for thr
Sibber was on board the rorfair, he w; put j all vtij
h;. into irons cross-wise for 48 hours, and fhile \ 12 00l
| e be fuffered this treatment, he was robW of
h e all the
A. on board ; they likewise robbed the largo
Mt of a few pieces of linen. of Sal
to ■ Smith
its' > (h ' I ' s
fe mstttt. I toin
11-l j Sar
"PHILADELPHIA,
ieir _ icr,
Nego
MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER J. , •
;;;;
on- Tiie United States frigate, eommodor Barry,
the arrived at New-Castle on Friday last, rom a
j cruize. The commodore, wh« pafled hrongh
, r y town on Saturday morning, infoims u«, rh« hn an
:)ke perienced a most violent dale »f wind onke lilt nam
and ult. in l,f K, long. 72 . The frigate,we are 3poK
3ng happy to add, received no injury™.
Fiw 1o the Managers of the Hanfe »f Exploy.
up. Gsntlemen, teer
lila- : THE late didreffing calamity wheh has wh«r
l os visited our native city, has tranfmitsd to I**l
y j your care, a number of Orphans arJ other f ro(J ,
poor children, whom it will be your <uty to mon
med I 0U ( ( 0 fo"bw perions of good chrafter, t ' imP
who will feed them regularly, cloth them veffc
> n I W ell, give them fuffieient fehoolig, ant l Nan
leare teach thefn in ufeful trades and occiuationn, very
wlth an d w ho will moreover, use their enoeavours rec<l
ic . to to inllru&tthem in the principles oireligion
rriv< ; and morality, that they may become ufeful dI
:at . members of reli*iou3 and civil focieiy. _ fpol
'' in It is expefted of you to perform this im- S
com ; portai.t duty with great fidelity an! carc ; way
nlted and that you will never be too hady rti bind
s re " ing them, to save the small rxpence »f main- Qt(
on taining them for a fliort rime j for what is
f' r y thrs to the public, in comparison to the loss Ne ,
!fthe it tnay fiidain, by the injuiKce you may brij
thereby di> to one of its members ? Th
: few If a child fail of obtaining a (rood trade
eflity by the neglcft of his maftcr—if hi* master
t will is incapable of indrufting him in his ball - crij
j oefs—if his morals become tainted by the- t^c
•ower I influence of a bad example—or, if bf cruelty fh o
warn j andkard usage, his you::g and tender lirhbs flo
0 the (hould be mutilated and injured—do you P»
think the public will ever be compcnfated ev
:h are J f or the iojury they receive, by a few pounds
' that (hillings and pence, which a toD rigid ceco
alike 1 nomy has saved ? certainly, they will not- K
mod I The laws have appointed you, Gentle
s ab- m en, the guardians of these little children, 9
)mpo- to protest them from all such wrongs ; you
msare j ar e to do the parent's duty to them. On
ere in you we therefore call! and you we befrech,
iation, j by all the facrednefs of the great trud com
ndem- I mitted to your care, that you do not bind 2t
redati- I out one of these children, until you have a
have I prrfeft itiiowledge of the good charafter of
Y have j the proposed master or inidreft; and we en
apolo- treat you, always to prefer those, who will
g our I f e< ; that they arc kept in fteadv employ, v
nd we 1 without exa&ing 11 nre a fori able labor at their
;overn- hands, in a business that will afford them a
■de of profpeft of obtainisg by it, a decent and
'ft and comfortable living.
le, like A. to Z.
0 save I
>ns will I j
iJch," ©asctte sparine JLift.
hrough I
thirds Port of Philadelphia.
.Such C\ME UP.
r/ >0 Ship Roebuck, Shewell, Briftot ,
, , Chesapeake, Webb, Liverpool
°V the Cttfar, Howland, tjftoD
L^ u 1 Betsey, Philips, Briftel
natt ie j Commerce, Woods, Liverpool
uin, y I Thomas, Woods, d°"
' w,l °' Snow Maria, Kock, St. Übes
? t0 the Brig Venus, Grafton, Bourdeaux
Betsey, junkins, Nichola Mole
i & Wieliag, St. Übes
r ° n . Grace. Edwards, Amderdam
'lis, and Sd . r Mar j Browrl , Havaima
rer,(l th f e Little Will, Watfofl, do.
u, ot - Sloop Nalby, Cos, Martinique
devour- v hays
A R RIV ED. PAYi
1 s vviin Ship Charlotte, Daliken, Bremen 91
wcfiieiit, Arrived at New-taflh on Saturday.
teUuced Sl oo p Union, Ha>*lutib, Cbailefton 12
V-' '
I', ► j
t -i SerPrd on Friday. • 5 bufhets
jShipPVon, Gi .cn, Ind'» from ]
. Arelhul'a, M,lveow<\n, Cork 2 bushels
j Arrived. Days , Vand<
Erig Tryphena, Grilling, Bordeaux 45 4 buflv l:
Georgf, Hardinge, Hamnna 51 N. B.
Scb. Maria Matilda, Morse, Do. 12 were de
Amy, Cufafrg. Oiracoa 35 Beufaler
The Maria MatiKla failed from Havanna
1 in company with the fchr. Pegirv, N ide,
and fchr. Peggy. Creighton, for BuUimore ;
, "he Daniih (hip Neutrality, Sprigg, for N. B
!i Europe, and a Datiifh schooner for St. mittce
x Thomas.—Left theri the Place a
» Ship Abigail, Kane of Baltimore , brig fettleme
4 Maria, Woodward, Philadalphia to fail the
the 21ft. Eliza, Talbot, do. Ship Citi
j, zen. , N. York, to fail I(I of Novem-
I, ber with about 20 fail under convoy. Schr.
tt Djphne, Ripley, Philadelphia, do. 21 ft, Receive
li- , Daniels, Baltimore, do. Sifters,
——, Norfolk, do. Sloop Sallv and Jane; From 1
;d Matthews, Philadelphia. Sal'y, Hammond, cord
as do. and many others. From ]
si- The (hip Fair American, Brew.'r, from I 0t j]
n- Philadelphia to the Havanna iscaj>tured ana
ry sent into Cape Francois, part of> the crew
:te arrived at Havanna in the schooner Maffi- l'rom
chufetts. Captain Moflre saw the {United land
o- States frigate oa Tuesday near Chinco- From
he league. 4 From
,b- Captain Cuflting left at Curacoa the 22d JqH,
a- ult. Ship Diana, Hamilton, of New-York ; From
brig Fanny, Baltimore, bound to La Guira, p, ir ]
in- on trial ; Maryland, Roxborough, do. From
from La Gui a ; fchr. Polly, Haley, Gal- p o t;
loway, Richmond, do Eagle, Goodhue, From
Newburyport, do ; Lemmon. Smith, pev- 0 f
ihe erly, condemned ; Dolphin, Downs, New- f rom
lal. York, do; Polly, Clark, Barcelona, do. . ber
urs Poll, Higgins, Philadelphia, do ; Nancy, tow
acr. I Laurence, N. York, to fail in 10 d3ys. cw i
eer i Capt. Cuthii.g informs that all the ports From
ink. i«nt' c Spanilh main are (hut, and had been j ar!
ain I for three weeks previous to his failing again it j}y ,
put j all vtlfels but Spanilh. Flour was felling at (
hile j 12 dollars at Curacoa.
1 of
, , Boston, 03aber 17. jith
Arrived, (hip Financier. Clark, Arph-A'ngel
r S° 44 days. Sailed in co with cast's Wheatland
of Salem, Dowling of do. Left there captain
„ Smith of Sald'Ti. On Tuesday last, spoke the Q „
1 (hips Sultan and John Jay, fromb ifto;: bound „
I out. The Financier on anchoring saluted the
I town with a federal discharge.
—■- | Same clay brig Cyrus, capt Tyler, 41 days Fi
I from Nantz. Left there (kip Rose, of Gloucel-
Iter; American Hero of Newyork; barque
Negotiator of Boston. Spoke OA 16, lat 41,
lone 63, Alenfa, Davis, bound to Bilboa. Ofl ,
20, lone 18, lat 41, brig Joseph, from New- ,In 1
Bedford, »8 days out.
' Sam# day arrived, fch Rebecca, Vincents,
Surinam. Left there 60 dayi since, fh.p Maria
" e g " and Eliza, Downs, Boston ; fch Racoon, Bng- , Ff
: ziT ham ef do Betsy, Spooner, of Providence. j
e arc Spoke nothing. i
The Cyrus arrived here on Saturday, was a- j
riginally bound from St Michaels to Liverpool, I
/„„ with a cargo of fruit, and commanded by in- j n q
'' crease Blake ; but captur«d by a French priva
teer last February, and carried into Nantz,
* has whare her cargo was aondemned as Britifli pro
to perty, and the veflcl acquitted. Capt Blake re
,v covered by a judgment of the Marine Tribunal Fro:
from the owners of the privateer his freight
ty to money with damages j but was detained a '°t\S
after, time in France owing to the embargo after hu
them vessel was liberated. The American conlui at 1
ant l Nantz Mr P. F. Dobre, afliftedtapt BJake in a Int
tiona very friendly manoer to get his vessel cleared and
ivoura recover hi. freight money. <g
ligion This day arrived sloop Maria, capt Comerv,
ufeful A j days from Senegal, (Africa) nor
spoke no vessels.
is im- Same day arrived, fehr Commerce, Hat a
carc; way, from Gambia (Africa). Left no v.ffels
bind- th,re - Spoke brig Frederick, Cross, from Fort- Jn
land, bound to Demerara j and a fchr from
Georgetown, bound to Barbadoes, 4a days out.
rhat IS -p his d arr i ve d the (hip Victory, Irom
be loss Newyork ; fch Federal George from Balnmore;
I may brig Maria, Hateh, from the Delewara ; Uie p r
Theeda, and Paulina, from Baltimore.
1 tr?.de Capt Allen, in the brig Lilly, trom Baltimore
left Hampton Roads in co with the Conftitu
f i tion, And a Cutter, Iter tender, bounu on a
|S bD ''' cruize; off the capes of. Philadelphia, spoke i n
by »ne • t h e Delaware, capt Deratur ; off Nantucket
cruelty (hoals fell in wi'h and'fooke the Uniteri Stales
r lithbs sloop of war Herfild. rapt feaver, with the
Jo you Pickering, capt Chapman in co, who were 111 a
enfated few days, to put into Newport for trelh orders
dTct DONATIONS.
1 not- Received at Tents near Schuylkill, for ike re-
Sentle- lief of the poor,
aildren, 9 cwt. of buck wheat meal, 3 cwt. md.an
,; you meal, 3-4 cwt. rye flour, and 1 dollar ai,d
n On 50 cents, from several of the inhabitant
Kfrech, ot Londongnve, Chester county, for- F
,ft com- warded by Mr. John Jackson. G
ot bind 20 new flannel petticoats, and 2o (hitiß tor
, have a children, from 9 years to 14, with a piece
after of Joan's fpinuing, and I piece greec bind
[we en- ing, from several ladies of Bordentown.
tho will November 2.
employ, ISO dollars, collefted by virtue of two cba- _
at their rity sermons preached by the R«*- r °"
I them a mas Davis, Minister of the Ep.fcopal
■ent and Church, and the Rev. James Muir, Mi
ncer of the Prefoytenan Church at Alex
,o Z. andria in Virginia, forwarded by Mr. L
benezer Muir.
One bundle of warm cloathmg for women, j
ft ift and for children, of from 4to 12 years ,
wiW* of age, from Mr. Jared Ingerfo 1. ,
54 pair women's yarn hofc. 4
one piece white baize, from Mr John
Evans, No. 58 south Second-street.
Novemhcr 3.
Briftot 4c. 2 qrs of flour, and 90 dollars and 19
Liverpool cents, from the inhabitant! of Edgmont
Lilbon townftlip Delaware county, forwarded by
BrifUl Mr. Benjamin Stokfs.
ivemool By order of the Committee,
do. PETER MIEK.CKEN, Chairman.
St ", U ' iCS DONATIONS.
1 Moll Received at the Encampment at MjflerS Place
St. Übes for theufe of the Poor.
m Havat m a A small bundle from Mr. Ja-
An cob Lukens, Germantown.
'"ir
s?"
lefton 12 Samuel Baird. I
5 bn(hets rye meal ant} 2 bufhrls inaian raeaS, n # "'"
from Mr. Gilbsrt Kodman. are to '
2 bufliels rye meal,-from Mr. John Allen. t j^ e qj
2 builiels indian meal, from Mr. Abraham
, Vandeßrift.
4 buftiels indian meal, from Mr. Turner. 0 f the J
N B. The four laftmentioned donations, tQ t^e {
were delivered by Mr. Asa 1 onjlmfon of -^ a j nu |
Beufalen townfliip- XT
John In/keep, 1 Nov
, fona. Rohnfan, > Committee, ']
; Isaac IV. Mvrris, J SHO
N. B. AH persons to whom the Com- isagilnl
. mittce of the Encampment at Mailers ten iance
Place are indebted, will please to call for Coffrc-h
f fet*lement on ... ,1
e ISAAC W. MORRIS. j
at his Brewery in Dock street. r~>\Q
DONATIONS,
> Received by the c mmittee appointed to relieve Nov
»» the sick and infirm poor in the city.^
> From Thomas Wift<*r and Jolh. Wain, 19 '
'> cord of Wood.
From Henry Toland, 60 dollars- C. I
1 10th mo. 18th 1798. £Athii
d
w Received since the i(>th ultimo.
From W. M. B. of Fredericktown, Mary- j w c
land, 20 dollars. H
9- From I. D. of do. to dollars. H
From Hannah Speakman, of this city, 15 ,
id j 11 India t
10 dollars. _ kerc
■ ; From C. P. of this city, 1 barrel pickled N
a 1 park. B
From Geo. Chapman, of do. 20 bufliels of b
*1- potatoes. H
le, F rom Cov, of Trentan, a quantity Gar
:v " of wood. . '
W- from Andrew Ohl, colle«ed from a num j
10. - ber of the inhabitants of Lower Saxfon
:y, town (hip, Northampton county, about 6 /f|vs
cwt. rye flout", and 6 bufliels potatoes.
rts From Wm. Webb, near Lancaster, 20 dol
:Cn " arS * . "Icrim
n 't By order of the committee, w\en
;at EDW. GARRIGUES, President. ? poqu
Attest, SV
P. Barker, Clerk. «au 1
• -nth mo. sth, 1798.
0 J 1 ", 11 ■' _■' » m - m J e
uin BILL OF MORTALITY,
th j CtUeSed from the returns, and from the City
"the Hospital report, publijhed daily Jince the -]th
of Aug'jJl, 1798, in this paper, AJ
lays From the id to the 31ft August, inclusive.
ices- In the City Burial Grounds,
rque Ajlulti. Chili.
.41. "3 X3# phUl
Ofl J "59 s .
Jew- In City Hof. burying ground. reau
From city hospital, II» , phi j
cuts, city and suburb., bjti
□' r ' a I Totil in August ——6»3
; 1 Fromths ift to the 31ft August, inclusive.
:e ' j fcitheCity Burial Grounds,
j AJults. Child.
'as a- | • 13 6
pool, I ~ • -J59
' In City Hof. burial ground. 1 \
iriva " From City Hospital, ll*
antz, Cuy and Suburbs IS* b»i
1 pro ■ 164
ke re- Total in August. 613 ,
bunal From the Ift to the 30th Sept. inclusive. f
•eight In the City Burial Ground..
1 long Adults, CbilJ.
er his 7*9
ful at i 940
e in a In the City Hof. burial Ground T1
;d and From City Hospital *IS
City and Suburbs 'iri
imerv, Total in September 1831
ft nor From the ift to the 3iftOa. iticl*,- m .
1 In the City Burial Grounds.
, , Adults. Child. vo
393 HI f
vtffels —404
'r 01 !* In the City Hof.burial ground,
from From City Hospital I*6 !fI
y« out. cit an( i s u tu7b. 31a
from ' -—438
imorej Total in OSober ' 94*
a : 4ie F rom t he id 1® the 3d Nov. inclu.
In the City Burial Grounds.
ltimore AJuth. Child. IS
mftitu- »l 3
a on a . —r®4
, spoke i n the City Hof. burial-ground.
nMicket From City Ho yijal 5
I States City and Suburbs r r
ith the C
. cr{r ; u a Total m November, - i.°
°' Ue 9 Whole number of death 344^
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT.
* "■ q
a.j.ii ■ {;»
llai ai>d September 1442 ls?l
ibitan's oAober 1903 94 1 J
} ! ° ;
•c c Grols amount of
" ftß . for Baptist., Methodists / i6 4
i a piece p rce Quakers, &Ro- C
n bind- man Ca holio. J
:ntown. ' " I
Total 4041 3446 t
wo cba- A - D " V J
Pifcopai Forty Dollars Reward j
,• ivt;. roa APPRItIISNDING
it Alex- AQE NTLEMAN NEGRO, ,
Mr E- "OY name Giorge or Gioige Parre*, the
i 3 proi erty of the fubferiher, who has thought
proper on the night o( the 11A inft. to elop. from
women, master wlthout , ry provocation or just cause ; . <
[ 2 years h „ was f orm erly the property of Betkwith Bitler,
[l. cfq and lived a considerable time with '
[ids, and Potteoger.whokept tavern in 1
r Tnhn seen much company and travelled with several 1
gentlemen through different p-r;» of tlin (late, he
eet * is mnch known. It is therefore conjei,Hr c d he
will puth forfome of the northern cities.or towns
i and 19 as he has discovered an toplantation work,
idgmont though he may perkaps liave er.ffrd the ridge
i. v where a '.rothef belonging to major Bu-ler.
' Thi.fellow i*about five ;«t feveu iache« high,
well proportioned and walks a&ive and briflt, his '
littee. countenance it open and agrteab e enough when
iriaaD. in good humour ;he can haidly be ftirpaft in
(brewdn.'fs, and i. a v<.ry capible waiUDg-man,
house fervaflt, barber, &c To dcfcribe drefj
» P/„,, would be*ifelef»,as 'nc poffefTeda vari-ty of clothes,
n rtace thru , when drcffs;d l, u l y , he wore a green coat
bound with white ferreting md fpotte I jacket and
trseches. Whoever !* nj»> him home or fccures
Mr. Ta- in "goal in this or any other Gate th- said slave, fa
that I may g-t him again, (hall >*>o'fe re
, _„ d /sI.KXANUER. VASS.
/"if jf* la'mouth 0A.»3. 17»8.
1 bundles N of vrffelsand Stige Driver*
iboihood , re rr quefted to beware of lettering f»;d fellow to
by Mr. impof,- oil them by affixing his tlcape. '■
tlQvcmber 3 w&f.4w
__ 4
1
*' v 1
I »
* # * The Office oF Government
are to be removed from Trenton to
the City on TJiurfday next.
INSURANCE OFFICE
of the State of Pennsylvania is removed
. to the south-cast corner of Second and
Walnut streets.
Nov. 5. jjiw
The Insurance Office of
SHOEMAKER BERRETT,.
, is again opened at 110. 09 north Water street—At«
tendance will also be at their team »>. the
Coflfce-houfe asuTuil, from 11 'till » o'clock.
* II mo: .5, 1798 d6t \
jTfcjrnished room,;
CONVENIENT for a small lamily,
fnuated near this Office, wanted im
mediately. Enquire of the Printer.
* November 5, 1798.
9 IMPORTED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
CHARLES WHARTON,
[At his'Houfe, No. 136, South Second Street.J
Old Lilbon Wine,
Of the fir ft quality, in pipes and quarter calks.
f' Tei China, aflbrted in boxes v
Hyson
Hyf >n flcin, and > TEAS.
[r Young Hyson j
India Bandanna and Chopah Ri mal Silk Hand
, kerchiefs.
Nankeens
Sattin
°f Black and coloured Lutestrings
lllack lowing Silk
ty Garden Fantis, —Silk Umbrellas, &c. See.
November 5
m AVIS AUX FKANCAIS.
on 1 /-e Parlemenlaire le
6 BENJAMIN FRANKLIN,
* *'Q. 5r *1 CAPT Jones,
ol- Coimu par fa nvrche Itipirieure, pv
tira le 11 prefix, direct ement p>ur
Jiremit 1 ceux qui I'eSrent y prendre pafTagc font
pries de fe rendre a Philadelphle avaut dite
epoque.
S'adreifer a New York chez Messieurs Blanche
reau and Cazcneuve, James street, No. to, am! a
Philadelphie chez Fis. Jlreiiil, arroateur dudit ba
timent Spruce llreet, N». its. ■
le 5 nov. 1798 • £sl:
AVJS AUX FRANCOIS,
''l < Le Parlementaire
LA riCTOIREf
d'une marche fupWeure par tira
15 prefix, direitrmcnt pour lc
Port Repvblicain, ceux qui
defirent y prendre passage font pri£j de fe rendre a.
Philadelphieavant la dite epoque.
s'adreffer 4 New York chez Mcffi-urs Blanche
reau and Cazeneuye, James Ureet, No 10, and a
! Philadelphie chez Fs. Breuil, Armateur du dit
batiment Spruce street, No. Ixs.
Le 5 Novembre, 17*8 • djt
1 Wanted to Charter,
FOR BALTIMORE,"
MALL VESSEL,
iss£2» • FRO M four to five hundred barrehi
harden. PETER BLIGHT.
Whose Counting House
has opened, as usual, this day.
John Dobbin,
BOOT & SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general that he carries on his
litifincfs at TTo 99 Snutb Seconi-fireti, nearly op
polite the Merchants Coffee house whtre gen
tlemen may be fupplfed in the neatell and bed
manner—he aiTiires :hofe who may please to fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion on his fide ftiall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders received will be punctually at
tended to.
November 5 J
*„* The Custom House is re
mavedfrom Chester to the City, and
is again opened at the usual place.
November 3 §
REMOVAL.
thesuSscriseks have rtmoved their Office
from the corner of Eleventh i>treer,to their former
Counting House, Nu. 21, Peon Street.
If'tilings fe? Francis.
November 3 S
:NT \ Dr. Yeatman's
IIL 'Anti-pestilential Prefervaiive and
6l 3 anti-bilious Pills,
® 4l LX against the Fevers that prevail. Prepared
-5° *ud fold only by the Subscriber, who feels it ne
cessary to embrace thi» opportunity of arq4aint«
iiigthe Public, that be received a regular edu
cation in the different Branches of
Physick, Surgery, £s? Midwifery,
• Under his Father, and other eminent men in
3446 the cities of London and Briftr.|, and (in the
D. course of twenty-eight years) has seen the ma«
I n y good effe<s\s of this tncotrparable medicine,
J in Bilious, Jaundice, or Hepatic cafcs, Dropsy,
Rheumatism, Lues-Venerea, Scurvy, Wormca
fes, Malignant and other Diseases, proceeding
' from acrimony and obflruflipn.
"hou'ht THE PILLS
sP«°from Are prepared according to true medical prin
* cause ; eiples, and may befafelv taken by the mo# de
li Batler, licate In boxes <f a quarter dollar, and half
„ ! a dollar, with Uiredlions, and fca'ed with hit
-g,having crell, cypher, >nd motto. None else are Ge
h several nuine.
iftate, he N, P,, The anti-pestilential pre
,«red he f erval i Tet wu used with gieat success at Lon
or towns arfeitles, Briffol, and other Cities,
on work, w j ]pn tl)eT were rt fped\'Vely visited with the
r £e PLAGUE.
K-fhi'-h In bottles of a quarter dollar am} half J doU
briflt, his ■ llr > Wlth Direi3'O n '» and 'he Corks sealed at
gh when above.
urpaft in CHARtETON YXATMAJf.
:icg-man, SoUtliEaftcornero. Iyimbard ana Second ftreetv,
•Jj» drefj New Market.
>( clothes, oftober j law. tu
reen coat .
"r'fecuret A young woman from England,
l slave, fa would will) to engige with a lady in the capa. ify
above re- of lady's-maid, or in t»e fituatjon of a houf.- keep.
VASS. er to a genteel family,or toa firglc gentla-nan—.
A good recommendation can be procured from
e Drivers foma of the most relreA-*ble fjniilie- in this ciry.
1 fellow to For particulars enquire at the pr o '■'•g office ut
A. y. this Gaiett#.
»itf.4w jt. e»jt— —- — : I
PROPOSALS,
BY THE
Injurance Company qf North America.
For againft Fin*, on
Houlc, Ware-(Jenifer, and other BuHdings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common lufurance!, on hazard* of the frft
dafs, will be undertaken at a premium of shout
hall per cent, per annum. For extra Ivzardous
rifqu»s a larger preninm will be required, which
will vary according to crrcuviftances, seldom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annun) ; bat in some i-n
---ftanees, v. hcre the property infurcd i-s not only. ..in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered ftiil morefo
by the vicinity of extra hazardous building* and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to dreumftances.
Heufes ar, I V/are-Hmifes, the walla and parti
tions of wVich are wholly of floiie or lirick, well
eontirufteci, f 0 as to bs* guarded as well as'may be
ag»inft fires from within, and free fr»m extra Ha
zardous buildi.-.gs and occcupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be infufed to their full .value..
Also Gofcds and Merchapdije, not ot an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or packages, di
pofitcd in fu'ch building*, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 do lars ; bHt if more than thisl'nm
is required to be insured in one tenement, an aidi>
tio»al premium will be required, in proportion to
eireu«idance<.
I'. Ihiiirances willalfo be made on buildings and
gooiK extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to the risque. But it is not cafy to arrange theft 1
under particular heads or daffes, so as to describe
ttach with the neceflary accuracy. Each cast mud
therefore he dccidEd upon according to the circum
stances a-tending it ; ;ind these circumstances will,
in general, appear from the Jefcription accompa
nying the application.
Buildings partly conQru&rd of brick or flotie, 1
are preferable to thofei wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are fifuited, the neighboring
buildings, aljdhow occupied, are coefideratiqns *o
be taken into view. And with refpcil t» goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are expoled, ether
to commence or to incrcafe an accidental fire, a«d
their liability in such fta'e to receive damage by f
wet, or by sudden and haft y removal, or to be fio- r
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all dr- c
cumftancesof weight; and the premiums mull be ,
proportioned accordingly.
11l- Tfve following ccMiditicnt are to be under- ,
flood hy tl* parties .
ifc. The Inference is not binding till tUe ftipu- e
hl*d prqm!una_be. paid ; but it shall be dcem*d ef- *
fechtai from the time of such payment accrp- ''
v-mce thereof, whether (he policy be immediately 0
signed or dot. e
2d. fnfuraices may be renewed at the expira- 1 '
%c»i of thatfrm of the policy, without further?*- i h
p't rfes than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fame
as tlicy were ajhderftood by the Insurers at the time
the former insurance was made ; but the payment
of the premium is essential t« such renewal ; and
if the party itifured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed «n the former policy but by cfltnp.utfng j
eor.iKn.BCtment of 'he renewal fre.m the expiration ! '-
ofthe former insurance. The fubjeil of infur- j 9
ance tp«r r.cVerthclcfs be open to treaty for a new 1
insurance.
sd. If a»y other insurance be madeon the fame f 1
property,; it mud be matle known at the time of fl
application, othtrwife the policy made on such ap- ' c
plication will be void. a;
4th Go>>ti= hsjd in trust, or on consignment, "
riay be infyrcil as such in a feiiarate policy ; but
the) arc not fu be corifidercd as infill ed»ther»yife.
jth. t his company will not be liable or accoun- ?'
faijlefor any loss or damage occasioned by any for- "
c!gn invafiop, or by any military or usurped force- ~~
er by reason of any civil commotion ; or Occasion, -J 1
cd by gptipowd l r, aquafortis or other thing of tU- ta
like kin(\ kept in tlie building, or aniongft the pro- w
perty ißftired.
fth. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Seen
rlties, Title D#.;<ls, Money, Banjc and other pro- 1 "
inilTsry Notes, are nqt included in any insurance ; ! -
nor are paiHtiugc, -nedal', jewels, gems, antique ! n '
turtofities, or mirrors exceeding the value of tw*n- w
ty-five dollarseach, to be confiden tas lnlured line :e
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment. J' 1
7ih. No infuranke will be made for a fliorter '°
tarm than one year, nor for a longer term than fe- cu
v.yearst Persons choosing to insure for seven
y<M« (hall b callowed one year's premium Ly way '
of dlfeount: One third of a years premium (hall .
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
tliee years. 1
(<th. I.oiTe! fuflairied by fire»t - ir.lured, , ' a
Hull be paid in thirty days after due trfouf and li- 1 <io
quidnliori thereof, without dedufiton. j ' la
A defci iption of the property to be infnrod will | P e
be ijrpiiled with iach application, to be made by
a miller carpenter and Ogiied by him, as well as m
by owner of the building ot applicant for in- i Ol
furance, and attested before a Notary or principal C T
Magistrate, who will certify his knowleigeof the
I Cf>
parties and their credibility. !_ | P a
With rcfpedl to Houses and other Buildings, j
ill. I lie Gte and position ; describing the , w '
ftrcet or road on or near which the building , r '
ftan<|ij its contiguity to water, and other cir- to
rumflanees relative to the extmguilhment of fire .
jn cafe of accident; and particularly whether I* |
*ny and what fire companies are ta J
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood, i
ill. The materials of which it is built, whe- i
thcrcf briik, flone or wood, and what part of n j
each« as well as to the outlide walls as inside or
partition walls, and their refpeiilive height and t hi
thicknels j the flyle of t!ie roof and of \vha,t or
iDiteriib ; how fecurcd by battlenientsor par- j
iy walls; whatkipdof access to die top of the 1 un
lioufe and to the chimnies j whether any and
v, hat ele&He rods ; the. number and kind of ke
lire pldces ; and the kind of deposit for ashes. j ful
3d. Thedimenfuuisof the building and how j
divided, and the flyle in whkh it is finilhed so
a» to enable indifferent pei fens to judge in what iv,
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of j _
.injury; the age and condition of the building, T
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel- j
ling house, or for any other, and for what par-"] ilr
pole , also anellimate of the value of the house :
or building independent of the ground.
4th. The situation with refpc<ft to other build- "1
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at lealt one hundred feet 1
each way : what kind of buildings are within wl
that (Hftance, how built, of what materials, and w !
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel- wl
liugs for private famili»s or otherwise : whe- P°
llier any and what trade or manufjilory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles uled, or ul'ually dep«-
'fned in the house. cr witliin the distance afore-
,''aid, and of whit Viid.
Jicfpcilinggoods in Houses, Warehouses, &c. ,
1. A general description of tht building in
which they are kept will bt expedled, similar in T
all refpedls, as to the dai.ger from lire, with that J ,
inquired for Insurance on tbc buildings them
leives.
2, A- description of the kinds and nature of ' I J
4he goods, wheiher in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether diTplayed iu wltole
p ef.iwiftiht ufuj form fur mailinjj. And
\ .
1i 'h«goo !» .ar* in kii##, a crcherjtf ;
eliiitiau- ni tU(< vjI ,'e yf each kind proposed to
he iilfjrtd ; . t in the laA p*rticular minute
ri'fs of ilefcriprion is r.af expculcd
j. ;icVs of the following kinds are deem
■ ed extra hav.-irdous, though in various degrees,
in whatfrcr bwiWing :hty may he placed, viz.
ir,Q tjiteh, tar,turp;nttire, rohn, wax, tallow, oil,
om i*flammabief]iiHts, ftilphur, flnx, cotton,
dry goods 0! an inflamrnable kind opened.—
r r fv Gh!., china ware or porcelain, efpectally un
or'j pa ked; Looking glalfcs, jeweler? ; and all o
()U. ther articles n;art thin commonly inflammable,
; c l, or rroreth;.:i comnnonly liable to injury by sud
den remove or by moistures, or particularly
j,,. obnoxious te theft 6n an alarm of fire,
in Letters pod paid, diredUd to the Secretary of
»so the Board of Diredors, will be duly attendtd
ind to. An order for Insurance accocrpanied by the
:fed means 0/paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed oh the premium being paid. If
rti- tke application contain an enquiry only, it will
'ell bednfwered.
k e By order of the Board,
h »- 'fvBENEZER HAZARD, Src'rj.
Office df the Insurance Company of North )
lrft America ; Philad. Feb. I, 1798. J
Feb. 14. iamtf
tra " 1 * ■* ■ * 11 1 1 11 1".
&i- Bank of Penn/ylvama,
September 3d, i7«;2.
"\T7"HERKAS the Houle at ptefent occ'jpted
" VV by th« Bank of Pennsylvania was enter
-0 ed on the night of the firft instant, by some vil
ind ' a "' ls ' w ho robbed the institution of fp«dry
-ed ® ank Notes, amongst which were the follow
ed ,n C post notes of the Bank of Nev-York, viz.
ibe No dated 13d of August, 1798, Dolls
u ft ifTued in favor of Sea'bring &
m - Van Wyck, for
ili, k"° lo®3,datied 25th of Augufi, 1798,
re- ilTued in favor of Montgom
ery and Newbold for 125-3
tie, No 1006, 27th do. do. do. jooo
in ICO7, do. do. do. do. 2000
>c- XOOB, do. do. do. do. 20o#
og 1009, do. do. do. do. 2000
,0 1 oxo, 28th, do. do. do. 2poo
ds» lot I,' do', do. do. do. 2000
or 1012, 30th de. do. do. 15-00
""" 1013, do. do. da. do. rcoo
r Also ibridry poll notes of the Bank of Pcnn-
Dy fylvanii,'dated 23d July 1797, issued in favor
of George Hughes, for one tho*fand dollars
each, and fu-,dry post notes of said Bank, da
' e ted i<th of July, 1797, ilT«rd in favor of Geo.
r _ Hughes, for five hundred dollws and in
dnH'edby him. Theptiblic areherebveautiun
«d againtt receiving the said notes, "and a re
•f. ward of TWO THOUSAND DOLL/IRS is
p. hereby offered for th-difcortry.and ronvittion
ly of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
ed in the said robbery, in addition to the reward
a- I offered by the Governor of the Common wealth
x- j in his Proclamation of "this day.
By order of the Board,
ie JONATHAN SMITH, cashier.
iMills, Portage, See.
TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF YEARS.
I e
•d TO be leafed, for a term not less than three,
f . JL nor ntore than sewn years, a VALUABLE '
)e PROPERTY as the Seneca-Falls, in the county of 1
in j Onondlgo,t nd'ftate of New-Vork, on the Banks '
r _ los the Seneca-river, two miles weft; of the Cayaga- ,
w ' ferry, and eleven miles east of Gtneva.
This eftablilftment confifls of an excellent grift
ie mill, saw mill, dwelling house, bar«, and a port.
3 f sage or carrying place, with between thirty and
5 . forty acre* of land, under good improvement, and
as nioch more in the vicinity, as may be required f
for future improyement. t
It The grift mill is'a handsome, new and jvell fin r
ffhed building, of so by .to feet, 3 stories high
j. ana lurnilhed with a run of excellent Burr stones
and another of ETopus' stones, of the bell quality q
.. —and the mod approved bftalts, &e. calculated to f
1> ,mak« all the different qualities of flour for expor
i_ tation or sos home confnmption : It is acceQible by
water from every part of the Cayuga lake ani Se
neci-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and C
from its iituation, commands a veryextenfive and
encreafing cultoin : The dream on which it stands, !
. ' being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau a
e | ncvarbe in want of water ; and a it has been kept
i_ workingduring the severest season of the laltwin- [(
(e :er, it is not liable to be impeded by froft :
.. The saw millis also new, fituatefc on the fame p
ftre«m, now furililhed with an ample stock of
T logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro-
cured by ian4 or water, of the bed quality :
n The dwelling house is well calculated for the tffe
y ; of the miller, is netv, and fufficiently laige : Tbc
;i ; barn is about 40 feet square, and entirely uew :
j. | The portage is j-4thsof a mile in length, along J
[ the Seneca-falls—over which were pa ATM in the |)(
[ ) last year, nearly two hundred boats with their - n|
1 contents ; this objedl is already "produdtiva of a
! liandfome income, which must be iiicreafing and r
II j permanent:
j Among the many advantages of this situation,
s must be numbered the'fertility of the furi-ounding
. j country —being the b»ft improved part of the coun
[j ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter
e 1 course by land and water, the Genel&e llateroad
I palling through it, as well as all water Carriage to
I Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ; .
e I which renders it a mod eligible stand for a Store or
T Tavern—The river and lakes abound in filh and
' fowl, and the country with deer and other game.
i Belides the mills already ereiSed at this place, it a
r , is calculated for any additional water works that 15
. may be found necessary—Fulling mill, baik mill P l
: tannery, forges &c. may be at a small ex- ,
" i pence—lron ore may be brought in boats Irom the
' Cayuga lake ; and it is theught to abound in the trl
* neighborhood. ? ra
J The stock on hand w : ll be fold to the leflee, and
J the cattle, utensils, smith's forge, &c. may be fold „
t j or let the premises.
- j If a purchase should offer for the whole or an £ n
e undivided part of she premises it will be fold.
1 F«r terms of sale or lease, apply to mr. Wil- .
f kelhus Mynhf.rsi, at the Seneca falls, or to the "
fubferifeer, at Schenedady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD. in
) j»ne is lawim 1 U
Mails for South- Carolina £sf Georgia,
, TJACKETS arenow provided for carryiim the
. IT Public mailsby water between Philadelphia
and Charleston. They will leave Philadelphia H
.• on Friday's. The p.oflliy Jand will fee cantinn- J
|ed twice a week until an experiment is made in Hi
. I regard to the expedition and regularity of the 101
r packets. If any person chufes to hav« their P r
t letters sent by land only, they will please to ' c '
, write the word Land upon the letters : other- uri
j wife thfy will be sent by that conveyance which ral
. will firft start after the letters are left in the b u
poA-affice. be
yqfeph Haberjham, ,a ]
v Pojl-Majler Gemerl. U
Philadelphia, Auptjl 13,1798. J m
\VILLIAM M'LAWS, Fr
; SADLER & HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
and Twelftli-flrcets, on the Commons,
where he will receive and execute the orders of Ct
his friends and wholesale enftomers, with nfual ly
attention & expedition during the prevalence of tin
thr present where it las not made its lr »
appearance this season, n:r during any of the J"
year* i v,
aujtft 25 J
■ rl! Be-fi/ai Goods,
to '
. » CONSISTING OF
3AHDAVKA KAKCTT KRCHIE FS,
Cinntz CblTss Vlahar.-.z.cungy
Oliiutz Guzzii,as Tookereys
"?'* filiabad Uaha, V/rought Muffins
1 £ Drawers
ol '' Coarl'e Sugar." in bags, fit for the European markets
on ' ALSO,
* Carolina ludijr :>
ua * Coffee in hogfteads
1o- A. few pipes of very old and very fhsice Madeira
)le, WINK
ud- F»r Sal?, en reafonalde terms, by
rly J 0 "" Cral f,
No. 11, Dolk-!treet.
!of july 14 irnvKf
Ten Dollars Reward.
nf _ TTXESERTIiI) from the Guard House in New
l£ jLJ Cafll?, this morrrtng, SrspfltM Bowden »
V ;U private M aine, belonging to the Frigate United
StaUs He is alou: •56 ytars of age, five feet ten
inches high, fair CQOif lesion; light hair, Wue eye*,
born in England, and Ly trade a Bricklayer. Prigr
to the sth of June, the date o'f hi* cjiliuw-nt, ! g
resided in Fhilarieljjiia, where it is probable Fie
will eudeavour to go. Any pcriou »li > will ap-
prehend th? said defirter, aw,d fe/ure him in any
jail within the United States, (hall be entitled to
the above reward.
F. WHARTON, Cant. Marinss.
ied Nsw-Caflle, OiS 8.
DUTY on CARRIAGES."
-ry
* z " Notice is hereby givjen,
( r PHAT agreeably to an ail of Congress ot the
X U»it J States of America, pafTcd at Plila
delphia the 28th t!?.y of May-, 1796, laying du
ties on carriages for the conveyance of perl'sns, and
repealing the former a£U for that pil-rpofe—That
thcte fliall be levied, co.lleAcd and paid,-upon all •
carrisges for the conveyance of peifens, which
{hall be kepc by or for any person, for his .or her
own use, or to let o#t to hire, or for the convey
ing of pafTengers, the fevcral duties and rates fal
lowing, via. dolls.
For and upon every coach ' 15
upon every chariot iz
upon e very pod chariot 12
upon every pod chaise Ij
n- upon every pfveteu, with or without top 9
[>r ypor, ev*-y coaches 9
rs upon other carriages, having paimel
a- work above, with blinds, glasses, C 9
c or curtains 3
n upon four-wheel carriages, naving}
n . frame polls and tops, with fuel > 6
e - fpriii S s 3
Js upon four-wheel top carriages, with ">
Wooden or iron springs on jacks J
upon curricles with tops 3 1
upon chaitcs with tops 3
upon chairs with tops 3
* upon fiilkies with tep* 3 ,
upon other two wlitre 1 top carriages 3
v.pon two wheel carriages with Heel > "
or iron fpriag6 j 3
For and upon all other two wheel carriages 1
j upon every four wheeled carriage,*) ,
'S. having framed potts a»d tops, C 2 (
and resting upon wooden spar* J
, c The Collector of the revenue oi the firft division
j? °f the firft, survey of the diftri<ffc of-Pennfylvaaia,
0 £ will atrepd daily until the 30th day of September [
k next, for purpofe of receiving the duties on
a _ carriages, at Germantown, on tire Main a
little above the fig-n of the King of Pruflp*, «f '
which all persons polTeffed of such carriages are 1
desired to take notice.
id Notice is also given, 1
id so all retail dealers iij wines and foreign distilled
;d fpiritucus liquor*, tfcat lic.enfes will he granted to 1
them ; 011 c luei.ee for carrying on the buSsefs of '
n retailing of win sin a kfs quantity, or in less '
h uantities, than gallon-—and one licence, for. *
es jurying on the buOncfs of retailing fpii-lOUII3 li- *
:y quors in less quantities than twenty gdlons, at the
:o fame time and at the fame place, by '
r- JAMIiS ASfJ, '
>y ColleiSlor as the rft diviion of the id 1
e- Survey ol the diftritft of Peiiufyivauia. >l
id Office of lnfpe&ion at Germantown, > c
id aid August, 1798. j t
s, ' Every denomination of Stamps to be had a
;u at laid office. * r
5t -£r The Stamp Press is removed c
to the Office 1 of Infpectioi: in Germantown, on the c
.vreet, a little a6ove the figa of the King ol r
Pruflia,—.where attendance will be giveii for the c
aiecommodation of those whowifti any Hiftreio»;nts
ftampfcd, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturduys c
r
fc Wants Employment, a
A YOUNG MAN, who hasferved a regu- ti
lar apprenticeship to the mercantile bufi- r
nefs in this city, willies to engage in a Couuting si
2 iioofe or office, writes a good hand and under- ft
ftands accounts, can be well fecommended ar.d I
fecurlty given if required. - Enquire at the ii
) ufTiee of this Gazette. 5
g j"Pe " aawtf q
Bafltenridge—for I'aie 11
j eonfifts of 920 acres, dlmolf all of which it 0
j La fine rich Meadow, (the refidcnceof the late
. Ktrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
' into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the ~
J Earthy the river Pafaiek.
Th-rr are on it a number of buildings, farming ')
t a square of nearly three acres—The dwelling house .
t is a very convenientone.and>fmalLexpence would {'
j put it in complete repair. ' f a
The orchard consists of 1500 fin »beariti£engraf- ' a
ed Apple Trees—and/there is on art. erpirts of laid tc
* trail near 300 other Apple I'rees—ai also a great 11
variety of other fruits,particularly Cherriosoj the bi
j befl and moll delicious kinds.
j Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and in
Fertft Trtas, that add to ths beauty and eonveni- fli
) cnce of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles ti
from the townsof Newark and Elizabeth : lodo. bi
fr«m Morris-Town, and 11 fror* Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cash, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chsfnat treet.
cbtuary 2. eodtl
; Patent Ploughs, j
! ' I 'O be fold for cash by Jofejdi Salter at Atfion
JL Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
, Harker, Woodbury—and JelTe Evans, Lumber
. ton, Those who have used them'give them the
preferentc %o any other kind, as they require
, less
order at less txpcnce and are fold at a cheaper ti
1 rate—the plan is much limplified and consists of
. but one piece of call iron, with the handles and
beam of wood ; they may befixed with wrought g 1
lays and cdiilters to be pot on with screws aud tl
taken off atpleafure
Patent rights for vending with instrucTions for
making thciji m9y.be had by applying to John th
Newbold, or the fubferiher No. aiz North 1
Front-street.
Who bat far Sale; CC
Or to Lease fur a term of Tears, Q
, A number of valuable trails of Land, well
>' Ctuatcd for Mills, Iron A r oi ks or Farms, molf-
I ly improved, lyinp ehirflv in the county of Han- tii
F tingdon slate of Pcnnfylvanu. Those who may t j.
i incline to view them will please to apply Ca
John Canau esq. near Huntingdon.
C lar fa NcwiolJ,
j u 'y n sawtT
►
PR Qtj'L A M A TION.
Yi virtue of" a precept iromjouw X). Coxe,
I) Hr<|i4ire, prewdent of the court of Oyer and
t rmtfl'T and general goal delivery lor the trial of
II capital a lid other offence* in the county oi
ucks ; end HeNitv Wynkoop and Francis
Turrav, judges of the l ime court—-A court of
t.et» y cr Terminer, and general goal delivery,
ill be held at Newtown, in the said county of
ucks, on Monday the sth day of Vov;mber neit.
11 those who will profeedte agaiHt* the pnfoners \
iira the goal of said county, <&re recjuii ed to be then
id proiccuic against tliejii as (hall be juft—
•jd all the jnilices of thi peace, coroners and con
chies, within the said county, are required to be
let and 1 V.-r,in their proper persons, with their
r VU, records, inquisitions and examinations and
d er their remembrance*, to do those ' hings which
t th«iir oSices belong, in that behalf to be
ivv &e. DANIEL THOMAS,fhcriff.
a Oa. 4.
« FOR SALE, by
? John Miller, jun.
NO. 8, CHE.SNUT STREET.
i,c 100 hpgfheads RUM,
*p- Of high proof and fine flavour
my jiy 19
to -
AN AC T
For be relief <f the Refugees from tke Briti/b
roi'inccs ef Canada and Neva-Scolia.
Sec O E enaP.ed bj the Senate and House
-D of Reprefentatl'ves of the United
State of Am/criea, irr Congress ajfembled, That
to fatjfy the claims of certain persons claiming
[, e landsmder the icfoliiuons 'if Congress, of the
l a _ twfny-thjrd of April, one thousand seven hun
u. md eighty-three, ;nd the thirteenth of
cd Aptil oiic thousand seven hundred and
lat live, s refugees from the Britilh provinces of
ail Cariaa and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
ch Depatment of War, be, and is hereby autho
ier | rized /id diredled to give notice in one or more
Y~ of th< public papers of each of the States of
Vermiu, Maflachul'etts, New-York, Ntw
!ls' Harn(hire and Pennsylvania, to all persons hav
'■S ing dims under the said refiiUitions, to tranf
-12 mit t/the War-office, within two years after
11 the piiflg of this adl, a just and true account
ts of c 1 aill>3 to the bounty of Congress.
' Sec;. And be it further enafted, That no
' ftialll* entitled to the benefit of the
provilms oi this ail, thin those of the follow
ing <!e riptioiw, pr their widows and heirs, viz.
First, iiofe. Ileads of families, and lingle pcr-
fons, »t tneflnbers of any such familiK, who
were ridents in one of the provinces aforefaid,
prior tt the frmrth day of July, one thousand
3 seven hndred and feventy-lix, and who aban
-3 daned »eir settlements, in conference of hav
-3 ing givn aid to the United Colonies «r States,
3 indie rvolutionary War.agaixft Great-Britain,
i or withntcntien to give fitch akl, and corMinu
-3 ed in th United~States, or in their service, dur-
ing the kid war, an,d did not return to reside in
the doiiHions of thi king of Great-Britain,
4 prior K the twenty-fifth of November, one
tlronfani seven hundred arid eighty-three. Se
-4 condly, (he widows and heirs of all such per
sons as iefe aflual residents, as afofefaid, who
m abandoitd their settlements, as aforefaid, and
' died wihin' the United States, ot in their ser
vice dufbg the said war : and thirdly, all per.
fans wl«were mtmbersof families at the time
of their omi»g into the United States, and who
rc during tie war, entered into their service.
Sec. J And be it further enafted, That the
'prouf ofthc several ciriumftaiKes ne.cefTary to
entitle tli? applicants to the benefits of this aiSl,
*' may be tifcen befere a judge of the supreme or
diftridt oort of the United States, or a judge
j- s of the fufreme «r superior court, or the Br A jaf
r ticeorfnl jnd-ge of the count ait common pleas
or counts cui>rt of any State.
le Sec. t\ And be it further enaßed, That at
the expii tion of fifteen njonths from and after
tke pafTitg of I Iris afl, and from time to time
d 1)1 area ft er, it (lull be the duty ps the Secretary
for the Department of War, to lay such evi
dence of 4a:ws as he may have received, before
the Secfeury and Coraptroller of the Treasury,
d and with them, proceed to examine the testi
mony, and give their judgment what quantity
jot land ought to be allowed to the individual
e claimants, in proportion to the degree of their
[ refpedlivefcivi.ce},, facrifices and fufferings, in
e eonfequeilte of their attachment to the catlfe of
s the Unitfc; States ; allov. to those of the firft
, cU> a quatrltyuotexc<cdingone thoufandacres \
ami to tin lail class, a quautitynot exceeding
one hundrrd, making f»ch intermediate clalfes
as the reibutions atorefaid, and difti ibutive jus
- tics, may,intheir judgment require, and make
- report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any
» furh elairnint ihall have sustained such lofles and
- fufferings, cr performed such services for the
;1 United Stales, that he cannot justly be clafTed
e in any outgeneral class, a separate lhill
be made of his circutpftances, together with the
quantity of land that to be allowed him,
having reference to the foregoing raljo : Pro
vided, that in considering what rompenfitiou
• ought to he made by virtue of this aisl, all grants
® except miliiafy grints, which may have been
made by th<€tiit'ed States, or individual Staie«,
L ihall. he eonfidereii at the jnft value thereof, at
r the time the fame were made, refpetfiivelv, ei
j ther in wh( it o• in part, ai the cafe may be, a I ,
j fatisfadlion to lhofe who may have received the
fame : Provided also, that no claim under this (
. law, Ihall be assignable until after report made .
1 to CoHgrefs, as aforefaid, and until the said |
t lands be granted to the persons entitled to the
• benefit of this adl.
Sec. 5. licit further enured, Tlwit all claims
1 in virtue of said refoluiions of Congress, which
- fliall not he exhibited as aforefaid, within the
« time by this adl limited, (hall forever thereafter i
• be barred.
t JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker <f the House of lieprefutativet
•- TH : JEFFERSON, 1
Vice-Prefdent of the United States,
and Pr if dent of the Senate.
• Approved, 7, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of. the
1 Department of State*
1 Timothy Picktring,
J Secretary of State.
\ c 3* Purfuaut U) the abo*l)c Aft, No- I
• tice is hereby given to all persons hav- '
r ing claims under the rcfolutums of Con- '
grefs, of the 23d of April, 1783, and i
the 13th of April, 7 85, to tranfmitto \
the War-Office within two years after <
the passing of the said Act, Wz. the 7th j
<iay of April, 1798, a just and trueac- 1
count of their claims to the bounty of 1
Congress. ' |
In the proof of Qaims, a ftri6l atten- '
tion must be paid to the rcquifitions of i
the 2d and 3d Sedions of the Ad. 1
JAMES M'HENRY, '
julv l 9 W^- V °f ll '"- -
' iawd\v
ANOTHER STRONG PROOF
e, Of the great and unparalleled efficay „f
,f D *- CUV noil's COUGH DROPS
if is the Cara of
„ Coughj, Colds, Asthmas IsS Consumptions.
of T V'-tar** July io, rj 9 g.
). To u «- CH.rch,
»f Sir,
j. Per upwards of T We l ve Years, , h ,
rs bored under a feverc Caugh, (hortnef.of breath 1 -
'P lttin g ° f ™«» ">V lung, ind often of
- ciotted olood. t,U at length I W *a f 0 leduccd „
i- to be unable to walk across my room, and ow
>e ing to the vi knee of my «ough aai the Short
ir neis of breath could get no reft djy or night
id Hearing of your excellent medicine,, the Couch
-• Drop:., I procured a bottle ; I took a dose lt
>c soon as f got it, from which I found instantane
ous relief, iwd by continuing it for three days
I blett God I am restored to perfeiff health.
I believe you to have been the instrument in the
hands of Providence, of laving my life, I must'
iritreat you to publifb this f»r the benefit of any
who may he in my situation, as 1 am'confident'
it is one of the best medicines in the world for
those complaints.
I am, Sir, your grateful serwnt'
NICHOLAS STAGQ,
Little Robinsen-StreetJ
2, CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
Are prepared and fold by thelnventor aud sole
r e proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Difpenfcry, 1
j Walhington-ftreet, New-York, and at his of-'
t) sice, No I, South Third-street, Philadelphia,*
and fold by appointment at Mr Weedmiu's nß'
Williaui-ftreet, and Stilwell tic DelOreft, l 6»
Pearl-street, New-York. Mancius, Albany,
I'rice, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, Wil
foß, Wilmington, &c. &c.
OBSERVE,
As a counterfeit pieparation of this medicine
has been indultrioufly c<rculate4 through some
of the principal cities in the United States, per
: lons are reqnefted to pnrchafe them of fach per
sons only as have Dj Church's appointment for
vending the fame. Powers, Poughkeepfie—
Chappcl, Head of Elk—Bond and Co. New
caftle—Heinitfh, Lancaster Blauvelt, Urunf
wick (M. J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c.
*»* Patients letters (Post.paid) addrefled to
Dr Church, New-York, duly attended to.
a "g" ft 2aw 3 w
Tbis Ikiy Pub It/had,
And for file at the Oflce of the Editor, No.
119 Chafnut-ftrcet,
(Price l-itb of a Dollar*, I
A N 0 R A Ti 0 N, *
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequea of the Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in commemoration of the anni
verf.ry of American IndepancLetJcc.
By S>VTNcr.
The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we harefultained>
call for Justice. 1 hat Reparation and that
Justice, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmness. But to divide and cinquer was
the maxim of the I>"evil in the garden of Eden,
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
ple of all his votaries from that period to tha
present."
Oiser-veHitnj on the Boston Port-Bill, lyc.p. 78
by the late J. jun.
s aiiguft II
= TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
' Turn 27, itqS
Notice is hereby given, That by vir
cu£ of an ail', pafled during the present fcf
t fion *f Contfrels, so much of the aA entitulej
•- " An .\A making further provision fortbefup
s " port ci public credit, and far th« redemption
" of the public debt"—palfej the third day oi
t March, thoufatid fcvei) hundred and einetv
r five, as bars from fettltment or alio wane
e Certificates, commonly called Loan Office a-i
final feitleuK-nt Certificates, and Indents of : .
_ ferefts, is suspended until the twelfth day 0
e June, which will be in the year one thoufund seven
hundred and ninety nin;.
1 r . j hat on 'be liquidation and fettlementof the
, said Certificates, and Indents of lutereft, at the
> Treasury, the Creditors will be entitled to receive
Certificates of funded-Three Per Cent. Stockequal «
to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
r a 8« of intercft due u n their said Certificata, prior
to tht firtl day of January one thousand seven
i liuncrec ao<l ninety one.
That, the principal funis°f the said Loan Office
? ai>J final fcttlement Certificates, with the interest
s 'hereon, since tU jlrft day ot January, one thou
- land (even hundred ar.d ninety cne, will be dif
£ charged after liquidat'ion st the Treasury, by the
payment of interest and reimburf.ment of prin»i
---1 pal, equal to the funis which would have been
. payable thereon, .f the said Certificates had bcCn
1 lubjcrincd,, pursuant to the Afls making provision
] tor the debts of the United States, contracted cur
. liig the late war, and by the payment of oth«r
, L um >- C< 3«'J lo the m "kct v.lue of the remaining
- would have been created by such
1 asaforefaid, which market value will
s he««ermlaed by the Comptroller of theTreafury
, OLIVER WOLCOTT,
June 18 „/ t U Treasury.
t lawtr
; TO BE SOLD,
. HPHF time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY,
• fn 11 I tcn y „ ears to serve - He has had the
fmaU pox and measles, is ;,4ive, !*arty and (^roni-,
1 fm*!l f**r houle work in town or country. For
further information, enquire of the printer,
; HEALTH OFFICE.
■ to- Cj an
1798°. ° 'j Comm<> ' lvv,:alth . P-ffed 4 ih riprij
Sea. 8- A N ? be k furtKer enaded by the au
X X thority aforctaid, That cvery-houfe*
Iceeper w.thm the city of Philadelphia, the t„ w ,
Ta°u ' ? rthern Liberties and MovammfißV
and dillnilof tjouthwark, within a mile of the if-*
m'tsol the city, taking in boarde-sarrivise by fca
or by land, from any foreign port or place, and
vmgary boardk-r in huor her family, whofhall ba
taken hck o' any dif,a,e wharloevj, bew„ n the
fiHldayolMiyandthe fir it day of November i*
der in ' 1 "; Ve ," ty next aft " boar.
■ 1!' c u"tie to lodge in his or her house fh„"l
■ fickn n f l4 h r' nCIt i,tCr ' the W«kd3 th
sickness make report at the Health.Office of t'-e
. name of such lick perfot,, the time of his or her ar
rival at the houle and of his or her being taken (iclr,
and of the name and place of abode of such houlc
o£wu7°" .Wf/byficiau of the Health
► ?o« C °, r ' ll - V ' f " thK l ,af,£nt ' report
to . ij o.ljlc his opinion of the nature of such dif
eale, mat measures may be taken to prevent the
M ? tho ;nfca ion ; and if any housekeeper
1..a.l neglect to give information in the manner and
withm the tune afprcfaid, aud (hall be thereof con- •
vic.cd, 111 aiy court of criminal iurisdidion within .
o/:l 0 r 0, r al * verdict
or confe llioh, lie or Ihe ifcall forfeit and pay a Sne
co the use of the said hospital, not less than twenty
. (.ollars. uor more than one hundred dollars, to be
at the aifcretioj of the court;, according to
he cin uniftaucs of greater or less aggravation at
tending jiatticular cafe.
Ey order of the Board of Health
WM.AbI.US, Health Officer,
cf the Vort 0} Philadelohii.