I . | n . . ■***' %
#£B£tt£ cf tf)c Hl!tit£!jJst&!'o£,
»
By John Ward Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefnut Street.
hVMBE* 1944.] PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 10, <798. [PaiwiM XIV-
rt* The price cf this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers residing in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
* ditional, for encleftng and iireEling;
and ttnlefs fomeperfon in this city will
become answerable for the fvbfcrip
tion, it mud be paid Six Months in
advance.
Ship Caflius at Auction.
Dn MONDAY next, tS.c ioth inflant, at fix
o'clock in the evening, will be fold by auc
tion, at the merchant's coffee houfe—
;:V The J hip Caflius,
'■ '•J lying at the navy-yard, with her
mid-, yards, as they now are, fails,
ftSsSSo? as per inventory, which will he
•produced at the time offafc ; anchors, rigging,
a id cable, is they no.v lay at Smith's stores a
b.'/e Rare Iree*. . This (hip is copper bolted,
and c- ppe:ed up to light water mark.
This (hip is a faft lailer and is pierced for 18
guns.
FOOT 1 MAN & Co. auctioneers.
t>rA. J! tm
tor Sale,
THE SHIP
PACKET,
He LINGS CowPkßTh wait, Mailer,
BURTHEN abeut 1,5c 0 barrels, a gosdftrong
-Sl,ip haseicslluitacrnnimcdatiousfor palfcngers,
may he Cent to with small cxpcnce. She is lay
in;; ..t Mifflin's en
quire of-
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith & Ridgway.
»ovemberl6 Jilt
fj-"" Said (hip, if nqt fold on, or before the Jth
of Drc.mher.iuft. will on that day, in the evening,
tie efFered for sale by public auflion, at the mer
■chants's coffee hsufe.
Smith tf Ridgway,
Isaac Harvey, jun.
' dec. 3.
EOR SALE,
THE SHIP
PERSEVERANCE,
7 ames Will'tamfon, majler.
Just arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi
ladelphia, of live Oak and Cedar, copper ftifath
cd in London, burthen 320 tons mounting 16
guns and may be prepared for sea in a few days,
With her Cargo,
Now on Board,
COlfelJTI N» OF
151 Hngfheads and 50 barrels Sugar
Weight of prime Coffee in hhds. bbls
and bags
31 Punehcons of Jamaica Rum.
A LS'O,
R. Williamson, Majter.
FROM St. Domingo, with her cargo, confiding of
43 hogsheads of Sugar,
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
LIKEWISE,
the bri °
ftlSfnf AMI E MATILD A,
MOUNTING 12 Guns,» burthen
two tjaoufand two huudred barrels of
jftour, and insomplcat order.—Apply to
Thomas John Ketland.
November 13 §
For Sale.
T"*HE Subscribe*, intending to decline the
1. DRUG BUSINESS, offsrs for Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &L.
The (hop is elegant, commodious, and fuflki
«n(ly known for the extensive bafinefs I'onc in the
•wholesale and retail line ; the situation equal to
•»ny in the city, being at the cutncr 6f Walnut'aad
Setmnd ftrcef- The whole, or any part of the
t?tock, will be fold, as will best suit the purchaser.
l'hj terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, JUN.
IVlo has For Sale,
Well calculated for the rivtr trade—
The Peggy, about 30tonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an easy draught »f water, rigging in
gocJ order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber bufiaefs
0" All persons indebted to the late firm «<
GMtljiOnit {s* Baldwin, IV. B. Coldtbwait, Gcl.i
ihvsait Munrc, or the ftbfcriher, are earnestly
requested ts make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jbn.
august 3 §
BOSTON BEEF,
200 Barrels in Shipping Order.
for sale by
JOHN SKTRIN,
i\o. 9.6, A arth Froni-Jireet.
Who wants to Charter,
A GO ° D STOUT rESSEt ->
Of about 300 Tons burthen.
" HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
ncv ii ni4t
Old Madeira Wine.
17 pipes of old Loadon particular
MADEIRA WlNfi,
n ftrnrg iron bound Hambro' casks, for
al «by ROBERT ANDREWS.
ftov- 3?. eodtf
mayor's Office
. HE MOVED to IJ7 South Seconil-nreet.
biw
Ship Broker's Office,
And Com'ytiJJton Store,
No. iis, South fsiont Strfft,
Neit doar to she Cudoia Houfs.
THE Suhfcriber, encouraged oy the advice of
his friends, offers his service to the public
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. He propos
e« to buy and fell veflels and every thing relat
ing thereto—adift matters of vessels and others
in entering and clearing at the Custom-House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance ar.d all other mercantile accounts, and
have on hand the peceffary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and in
formation given in general mercantile matters.
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of bufihefs he hopes to be ufe
ful to thole who please to favor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERT.
November 19 §
FOR WILMINGTON,
N-'o rth-Carolina,
I—THE SHIP
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
1 W ILL take in freight on very mo
-1 i»-«3slifesfefe2derate terms, and fail about the
i?th instant. Apply to the Captain on board at
Latimer's wharf, or
Willjngs & Francis,
Peiin Street,
november 16 §
FOR SAVANNAH,
The fast sailing and well
accommodated Ship
ImSl SWIFT-PACKET,
Patrick. Grtbben, majler.
A conllant trader, will fail in a few days. —
For freight or passage apply to the matter on
board, or N. (3 J. FRAZIER,
No. 95, South Front-street.
dec 4 diw
For SALE or CHARTER,
THE SHIP
molly,
f Burthen 4too barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built, well found
S» i ®» s aDd fitted, and may be ready
to reeeive a cargo in 1 few daye—(he.is pierced
18 gunp.and mounts 11 new fix pounders, with
small arms in proportion.
a THE SHIP
I&£?ih£" D 1 A N A,
Burthen 2,100 barrels of Flour,.
- i'i* huilt ot live osk
" c^ r and csdar, it pierced for four
teen guns, end mount's ten new four pomnlers,
with small arms m proportion.
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
Burthen 1.300 barrels of Flour,
" New-England built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready forfea
in a few days.
For terms apply to
NIC KLIN Is} GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
on loardfundry vejfels at Marcus-Hook,
11 000 bu(hels of Liverpool fine fait
r, 100 bulhels of coals
jB6 crates of queens waie assorted
7 tierces of bottled porter
xo barrels of coleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity ofyellew ocre in calks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black do.
15 barrels Spanilh brown do.
35 boxes of pipes
89 'Thrown J HAVANA SUGARS
3,5001b5. prime cochineal
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncherins Jamaica spirits
ao bales of fail sanvafs
379 (heets of copper, aff»rted from 48 by 24
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tubs raised still bottomsafforted
36 fix pound guns 4§ feet, each
14 do. 4 feet, Km and 4lbs each
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks muffins and (hawls
14 cases mnflinets, dimities and gfrighams
»8 chests coloured nankeess, muflirrets,&c.
11 trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of whits and coloured caffimeres
1 bale of course woollens
Englilh nails assorted.
Odober ly. fri.&fat. tf.
HUDSON YORKE,
NO. 54, NORTH front street,
HAVE JU:.T RECEIVED,
Per the lall arrivals from Europe,
A VERY COMPLETE ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
IVhich they will dispose of on reasonable terms,
AMONGST WHICH ARE
Ssperfine and coarse cloths, coatines,
ELftic and fancy do.
Caflimeres, plains, duffils
Rofeand ftripa blankets well alTorted in small
bales
Furniture chintzes, cottons and dimeties
Calhmancoes, oarmblets, durarrtj, moreens, and
joars
Muslins of all kinds
Velvets, vclverets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegant alTortment of ribbons /
Red, white and yellow flannels
Red and green bocking a-nd wslftfbaizes
.An invoice cutlery and hardware
Cottonades, (hawls, printed handkerchiefs
7-8 4-4 x 1-8 checks
9-8 St. 5-4 cctton ftrijus
Cotton, worded and filkhofiery
do do Gloves
Threads, bindings, tapes, &c. &c.
Nov. 9. dlgc
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AHJ IS KIM.OVINC ItOM .\O, 8, CHESNVT,
To the Five Story Utilising, in Dock
near Tbird-ft ret
Where he has for S»le
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
comntpc or
CofTjits . ■
Baftas
Mamoodies
Hurahums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, life. &c.,
The remains cf a Stock of
DRY GOODS,
Conjifling of Woolens only,
AMONGST THEM till,
Cloths
Coatings
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, &c.
ALIO,
100 Hhds. of Old Ru-m,
Of a fine flavor, $1 & 4th proof,
nov 10 $
~ REMOVAL.
George Dobson,
INFORMS his friends and the Public ill general
that he has removed from No. 25, South Third
•Street, te No 92, South fide of Market-ftrect, near
the corner o! Third Street, and is bow opening
a very extensive afiortmcmt
DRY GOODS,
SUIT ABLE FOR THE ."RESENT SEASON,
WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEIVED,
Per the Ihips William Penn, Amiable, and Jane,
from London, and per Chefapeak and Thomas
from Liverpool, and will bw fold low for cash,
or approved notes at a short date, viz,
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
Caffimeres, fa(hionable c&ours
Yorkshire 7 4 do. and do.
Mixed and plain coatings
Welch flannels
Kerfcy beavar, forSpeDcers
Jeannets and Tabby cords
Velvets avid velvctteens
Vclverets and tbickfetts
7, 8, 4 4 and n-Bcotft>n and.linsn checks
7-8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
London chintz and chintz furnitures
Furniture cottons
Do. dimities
Purple and chintz fhawU
Silk do.
Camels hair do. 1
Silk, cotton, and worsted hose
India and British muflinsof every defcriptiou
Black and white «rape
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats allorted in'fmall cases
Umbrellas
Peelings anH fattlne
Laces and edgings
Ribbaiids
SiUc Modes
Superfine French cambrick
Cambrick mull ins
Do. threads
Pulicatand Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant ajfortment of
Brussels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 17 §
For sale by th; fitbferibers,
A FEW BALES OF
WOOLENS,
Containing Cloths & Blankets,
150 bales Bengal muslins
ao do. Madras handkerchiefs, elegant pat
tertis
201 pieces Ruflia flieeting
10 boxes umbrellas
a quantity of cassia
30 tnns Psterlbaag clean hemp
£5 pipes, 3 years old, finett particular Ma
deira wine
a quantity of copper
Mordecai Lewis.
Nov. 26 diw
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes
Velvetts
Velverttts
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbands
Sewing (ilk
Brussels and Petfia caipetu
Buttons
For sale, for cash or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. 243 Arch ftrcet.
Nov. 16 §tjanl
LANDING,
From oil board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stites, Matter, from Cape
Nicbela Mole.
23 Balss Socks and Flannel Drawers "1
18 Do. Gaiters j 5' S 1 5
2 Do. Rugs ! *
I Do. Havre Sacks r ™ = "
1 Do. Flannel Trowfers | 3 /
2 Do. Tents, J £
Also just Imported,
In the Shtp Chesapeake, Captain W«bb, f r »m 1
Liverpool, 1
147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
Aflorted particularly to suit tUe Weft-India
Market—For Sale by
Thomas £3* John Ketland.
November 7 §
Now Landing, ,
From on board the flu'p John Bulkeley, and 1
for sale at the stores of Jeffe & Robert 1
Wain, 1
350,0 c o weight of Java Coffee, ,
of the firlt quality in bags. I
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
in cannifteri. '
nov. 23 dtf
Bond &c Brooks,
Corner or Market and Sixth stkeitj,
HAVE RECEIVED-,
by the late arrivals frohi London, Liver-,
pool and Hull,
A L ARC I AND GENERAL AISORMLNT OF
DRY GOODS,
Which tliey are now opening for sale, at the mod
reduced prises, for cash cr the uftial credit.
A capital Stand for Btifinefs
TO LET,
That large and commoilious HOUSE, no. 39,
south Front (Irest, dire<3ly opposite the PoA-Oflice,
together with the (tore and cellar, on the Water
flreetfide. Erqaire as above.
nov 17 t 5
FOR SALE,
A QUANT ITr OF
ROCO A.
ALSO—A few bales of excellent Cayenns Cotton,
fubjet* to drawback—enquir: of
JEHU HOLLING-
No. 47, Penn Street
nov. 24 dif
JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo natu landing ctt Southflreet -wharf,
k FOR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOX SALE,
BRANDY, id and 4th proot
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &c.
Nov. I. dtf
JuJl imported in Jhips William Penn, A
miable and Jean, from London,
A qnantity of Cannon,fizes 4,6 & y lb. with balls
Ca-ronades, 12 lbs, j fuitalle.
Mufquets, Mufquetoons,Cutlafles and") w
Pitlols, for (hips use, I -
Rifled barreled Gii»s, Fowling Pieces, ! § »
and Horseman's Pistols, f •^"'2
400,000 Flints, chiefly for mulkets, in '
k ee«-. . J "S
Regulation Lieht Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in cases of 50 each,
Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres, Swords and Cutlafles, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general al
iortment—For Sale by
Thomas Zjf Jno. Ketland,
Philad. OSobor 25.
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimstone.
Anaffortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING OF
Opium, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, Sec. &c.
ElTences of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and flafks
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian lutestrings
Satins
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wine of the firft qnelity.
JAMES YARD.
November 3 §
Genteel Boarding & Lodging,
IN A HEALTHY SITUATION,
MRS. M'CREA informs her friands and the
Public, that she is prepared to accommo
date several Gcnrlemrw, with genteel Boarding
and Lodging, at No. 1 7, Filheit ftrcet.
"ov 2 8 Sti
Evening School.
5. L E WIS,
TNFOIIMS the Public that his EVENING
A SCHOOL for Young Gentlemen will open
for the Winter, on Monday, December to, at
No. 2c t Areh-ftreet, near Sixth.Street,
dec 7 <J3t
IV A D.
Convenient Lodgings, for an elderjy
Lady, in a refpcihble private family, where
there are no children. Enquire at thii office.
. dec 4 _ dm
NOTICE.
ALL persons indebted to the estate of J.amis
Thompson, of the Indian Qu«en, Fourth
street daceafed. arc defircd to make payment to
the fubferibers—and those who have any demands
against the said efiate, are requested to fend in their
accounts duly attested for settlement, to
MARGARET THOMPSON,") Adminiflwtrii.
JOHN THOMPSON, j
a °v- dim
James f William Miller,
No. 53, North Third Street,
Near Arch street, have the following articles for
sale upon moderate terms f»r cafli, or the
usual credit.
Scarlet Cloths,
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, P«ed, and Yellow Irilh Flannels,
Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
licoes, Gurrahs, Mamoodies, Guazines, and other
muslins, fancy and plain cotton hose, velvets, thick
fetts and fancy cords, sewing silk and twist of all
colours, ferreting, hair ribbon, coloured threads,
India flag bandanoes, and other black and coloui -
ed silk handkerchiefs, a variety of other cufßh
do. Soute romals, red Gilla mo
leens, foan spinning, fuftions, beavers, jeans, fa
ttnetts and royal ribbs, alfn muflinets and dimities,
ginghams, ladies' kid and coloured gloves; &c.
Nov. IX dint
John Dobbin,
BOOT SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
tht Public in general that h* carries on his
business at No 99 Smith Second-Jlreet, nearly op
posite the Merchints Coffee house where gen
tlemen maybe ftipplied iH the neateJl and best
manner —he adiires those who may please to fa
vor him with their commands that no aticmion
or exertion on his fide lhall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders received will be punctually at
tended to.
November ;
HOT IC E.
ALL Persons indebted to the Estate of doc
tor Hugh Hedge, dcctiled, are requeued
to immediate payment—and those having
demands against the Estate aredelired toauthen*
tie-ate and present them to.
MARIA HODGE, admintjlratrix.
SAMUJiL. HODGBEN, admimjlrator.
nov io §
To be Sold at Audtion,
TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER,
On THURSO.IT, ih : - December next,
t At the Bunch of Grapes in BOSTON,
:, precifcly at I o'clock, P. M.
Two Notes of Hand,
Signed by Kelly and Clark, a»d indorsed by
Martin Kinfley, Thomas Barber and James Green
leaf, dated December 18, 1795, and payable the
ift day of January, 1799, viz.
One Note for thru: thousand fix hundred dollars,
and one Note for four thousand tight hundred
dollars.
Boflon, november 14 (ai)
FOR SALE,
f j By FrsiißoußN Wharton,
_ j at No. 1:8 South Fourth-Jlreet.
China Ware,
> Nankeens
rp
leas
Boglipores
Lutestrings, is*
Silk Shawls.
nov I.V rrftf
Notice is hereby Given,
application will bj ma da aj the TVea.
fury oi t iu United Srates, for the renewal of
the following cer*ificates of Funded Debt, land
ing in the r.a:we ot Robert Whitworth, of Chellea,
London, thefaid Certificates having been forward
ed by the (hip Elliee, Hatvey, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, and fuppofod
to be lofc.
No- 11437, 6 Per Cent Stock, dated +*ew
_ York, 18th April, 1796, f*r Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
18th April 1796, for dollars 400.
r SAMUEL MILBANK.
November 18
Notice is hereby Given,
That application will be made at the.
Bank of the United States for the renewal oi
the following certificates of Bank flock, (landing
1 in the name of Hodgfon Atkinlon of London,
which were loft from on. board the Swallow Pac
ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the French, and all
persons concerned are defiredto take notice
No. 2424, issued in lieu of No. 1891,
' 1892, 5662 and 16640, for4fhares.
No. 3020, issued in lieu of 11055, ao( *
11057, for 3 (hares.— 7 shares.
THOMAS M-EUEN & Qo.
Nov. ii d3m
notice:
A LL peflons ltfdeWed to ffie eKate of JOHN
-/i- SPURRIER, late of this city deceaied arc
tequefted to make immediate payment, and those
who have any demands against said estate arc de
sired to renJer their accounts properly attelled to
; the fubferiber (or fcttlenicnt
ELEANOR SPURRIER,
Administratrix.
""V- _H3t
NOTICE,
A LL Persons having claims upon the Estate
5 of James Thorliurn, Stonecutter, deceaC>
ed, are desired to present them for payment—
e and those indebted to pay their refpeflive bal
- lances to
I Benjamin IV. Morris, admini/lrator.
nov 14 3awj w
- JAMES & RICHARD SMITH,
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their STORE, No. 54, South Fiont-flreet,
wlure they he ve for fa!e, as ufual,a large and ge
neral aflortment of European and Eaft-lndia
; DRY GOODS,
t mod of which have now arrived and are landing,
from the different vefltlt, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Cultomers by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, ai*f at as law
prices for cafb or credit,as they can be had elfe
r where.
; N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, 3
consignment, to be fold by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf
Millenery «Room,
1 No. 136, Market Street.
' r f HIEE or four young women who are weHac
' 1. quaintcd with the Millenery bufincfs, and
can bring good recommendations may be employ
ed! y applying as above to
D. CHRYSTAL.
Nov. 46 ) §
Englilh wrought Nails.
Imported in the Jh'tps Molly and Diana> from
LIVERPOOL.
400 Casks of Nails,
CONSISTING of 6d, Bd, iod, rtrf, and
jod, flat points suitable for the fouthera
• market—6d, Sd, iod, lad, and aod, finedrawn
sharps—also 1, 2, 4, and- 6 clouts—fprigs—
tucks —faupper nails—sheathing nails, &c,
FOR Mil by,
Robert Denfon, junr.
127 Market-lireet.
for Sale,at the Stores of the Sulr
fcribere, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 casks of nai)t> afTorted
10 bales ef fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
53 caflcs yellow ochre
15 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. eacfc
London particular ) , . ....
India market $ Madeira Wmes
TeneriflTc do. in hegfheadsaod p>»
Old Port do. in hhdi.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinetj &e«
afTorted for the Weft-India market
4. 10, andy inch cablesand 10 coils of cordar®
Writingfiates, ink flandsaad preffet
»o pnrcbeons Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine
160 bundlei sheathing paper
Nidttin & Griffith.
a F ril 7 tutMcfifIMPORTED,
Fr>t» Hamburgh, Bremen, and London,
•KB FOR lALI BY THK SU DSC RISERS,
An airortment of German Linena,
- CONSISTING OF
i icklesburgs
Ofilabir*gs
Wefcr linen
Checks and ftripei
Bielefejd linen
Brown filefias
Silelia lawns
Siartiois. &cs See.
150 Boxes of Claret.
$ Boxes oi hollow glass ware
is calk* ot Rullia briilles
ALSO ON HAND,
1 Box of Irifli Linens*
t Trunk l;ik goods
t Box 01 Gingham,
And a complete djjlrtmmt of
Englilh Buttons.
Erich If Letvis Bellman,
So. 100, Sprucfc street.
noveniberi9 toiot
JuJl Imported,
A quantity of fa!t-per«re. refined
(Tun powder F and double ftaleU battle
Cannon, 4 and 6 poundem
l.ondon porter and Burton Beer
Muittrd fc;uares, 4 oiiiiccj
fctft Durham niu.'tard
fubje«il to drawback
All of whicli wili be Ibid on moderate terms by
HENRY DAVIES, junr.
Kb. 93, fout;h Acond street, opposite the
city tavern.
t , v - 9 n>w&ftf
FOR SALE,
By George Plumsted,
f V No. 166, Sou 1h Front Strxet.
450 whole 'i i-rces (~ r ~ _
100 half do. J
,t5 Boxes white Ilavanna Sugars, entitled to
drawback
1,600 pieces Nankeens, do. do.
Anchois weighing i;cwt. and i6cwt.
160 boxes containing tea setts of China
35 boxes, of b!u; and white table setts of do. I
ALSO,
Boxes containing hreakfaft, coffee and even- I
ing cups and laucers ; tea pots, cream pots, fu- I
gar dilhes, pint bowls, cuflard cups, flat and I
iOup plates and dishes.
Vjuiiij My Ton Tea
l'".illS
Oallia.
n ° l • J ; 31aw3w I
George Davis's
LAW-BOOKSTORE,
No. 319 High Street,
Latest London £? Irish Editions. I <
GEORGE DAVIS's Fall importation is now j
arranged of which a more capital collec- J
tion he fee!ieVes was never offered for l'ale either i
in this City, London or Dublin. It combines } '
aim oft every book in,with several valuable books I
out ot print. Davis's confining himfelf to the I
lale of Law-Bonks only, it will appear obvious I
to profcliional Gentlemen, the advantages they I
Have both mlelcflion and price by purchasing I
from him. 1
His Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will I
particularly obline him hy calling for them— I '
»/id to thi le refilling at a distance, hy fovoring I j
mm with fbiir aaCftfs (port-paid i ttiey lhail be |
lent.
bov - ) m&th»m I
Mrs. Spurrier, J
MIDWIFE, V If
From the ci'tyof London lying-in Hospital, |
this opportunity of returning her I
lincere thanks to those ladies whom foe has I
had the honor to attend, and moll rcfpe&fully in- |
forms them and her other friends that (he has rc- I
moved tofou h Sixth street two doors from Chef- I
nut rtreet, opposite C»ngr«f» Hall, where (he flat- I (
tern hcrfelf by careful atc«nt : on to the duties of |
her profeffion to merit tfceir future favors.
nov 18 ®fw4fa.ira I r
ALL PERSONS, :
HAVING claim* against the Estate of ] N
SUS AIVA .JH LOCKCER, deceased, are I *
requested t present their rtfpeflive accounts to I U
NATHAN A. SMITH, ~i . . f
0, L »
JOHN DORSET, j Execulort - JjJJ
A LEASE OF THE HOUSE t*
Lately occupied by Sufannab Lockycr, together I
tukb THE STOCK OF GOODS,
Are to be diJpofed of rime will be given for I
tile latter on un-exc« , pli»nable feeurity. I "T
nov 9 :aw6w I
R. TAYLOR,
MUSIC PROFESSOR, r
WO. 95, NORTH SIX TH-ST KEET,
Respectfully informs the Public that | :
he continues to t»ach Ladies th« Piano |
fartr as usual. I ™
N " v - 6. tuthsa I ( c
Charles Campbell,
W AT C H-M A K E R.
HAS removed to the Shop formerlyoccupied I
by Mr. John IVOOJ, No. 55, corner of.j
Prcntand Chefnut-ftreets ; where he will thank- I C
fjlly receive and execute orders with neatness I C
and dispatch J
>IE HAS CONST AK'fLY OM HAND, I T
A Ne3t and Large Aflortment of ILa
Clocks & Watches. r Jf
- I ?e
WANTED,
A JOURNErMAN;
ALSO, one or two Apprentices of rei>pei)a- |
b!e parents.
FOR SALE, I 1
A large quantity of Watch GlalTes I <(
Wbolefalc and Retail. I
»4 3»wtf I ' e
Hats Ssf Holiery. I ,v'
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, l u
AT HIS STORE, I
No. 134, Market Street, |
HAS Jlisr OPENED, in addition to his for- j
mer stock; a very extcnfivii a.Tortntcnt 01 |
Women's, and Children's Hats, and al | 1
kinds oi Stockists —parficufcrly a quantity of A
berdwiikuit Hose, suitable for the present season I
2-5 POini I f
FOR S >Lt, I
J.nd. immediate pofftjjion give, j „
\ CONVENIENT thre<rßl*)ry Drick Hooi" j 'i
Xi. Pi izaa and Kitchen, in a pleasant and air- I 01
t-. it of the City—Enquire of the Printer. I w
V 3 <lii | i
MMiijilJL's SALES.
'JjfITFD f rSTts, ) -
111, Penniyu-ania Dillriil, ] c "
JN pmfuarce </f a writ to me dire<sled from
a the hon Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of
' the Jl' iitri& Coufi ofifie United States, in, and
f r -' the Pennsylvania Didridl, will be exposed
to PublitsSale, at the Morchant's Coffee House,
in the City of Philapelphia, on Saturday the
1 jth day of December instant, at 12 o'clock at
HOnn, the armed French vefiel th« Jaloux, uith
her apparel, guns, and apurlenanees, captured
by the public armed ship the Unit>'D States,
John Bsrry, Esquire, commander, in the said
Diftrifl Court condemned as forfeited.
WILLI.AM NICHOLS Mai-nial.
Marfhai's Office, Dec. 7,
UulTtD STA+js ■>
Pennsylvania DillriS.J
TN Purfnir.er dr a Writ to mc dire«sled from the
' honrra'de R cliard Petet., cfquire, Judjfeofthe
C iftri<2 Court ot the United States in and for the
Pcnnfylvan.i Dillri<2, will be exposed to public
sale at the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe in the City of *
Philad«lphia. on Saturday the fifteenth day of
Dccrmhca instant, at 1 a o'ch ck at noon, the arm
ed French vefiel, Le Sanfpareii, with her appar*),
guns an ) appurtenances, captured by the public
armed If.ip, theUNino Statxs, Jjhn Barry,efq
Commander ; and in the laid Diilrid Court, con
demned aj ' orfcntcd.
WU.LIAM NICHOLS, marlhal.
Marshals Office » '
December 7, i j .
Unitrd States, ,
, Pennfylva';ia DifiriA I^*'
NO nCE i* h:r«by given that in pursuance of a
writ of Fiera Faciis to me directed, from
the Hen. Richard Pkters, Esq. Judge of the
Diftriff Court of the United States in and for the
- Pennsylvania Uiflrifl, will be expofsd to public
falc on Wednesday tha nth inll. at u o'clock at
noon, at the Stohs Messrs. Pratt andKintzing,
in Water nenr Race-street,
117 Bags of Ccffee.
The fame having been seized and taken in exeeu
-0 tion as the property of Ferdinand Goxrden, and
to be fold by
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marshal.
Marfoals Office, Dee. 7, 1798.
7be Creditors of the Subscriber 1
ARE HEREBY NOTiniD,
■ he has applied to the Court of Com- '
1 X m °n Fleas of Montgomery county for the
benefit of the ai?f of Assembly, parted the 4th
day of April last, entitled " an a<fl providing I
that the person of a debtor (hall not be liable to
imprisonment for debt after delivering up his
fiate for the benefit of his creditors, unlcfs h#
hath been guilty of fraud or embezzlement"
and the judges of the said court have appointed
Monday the tenth day of December riextat ten (
o clock in the forenoon at Norriftown in the
county aforefiid for a hearing of him and his
creditors. GEORGE HIRST. (
nov '7 lawfat tDB
The Creditors
Of William Steedman and John Smith, of f
the County of Northumberland, in the
State «f Penafylvatiia, lately trading un
der the Firm of
Steedman y Smith, e
1 AKE NOTICE, that the Suhfcriberi *-
V* have made application to the Judgrs of the G
Court of Common Pleas for the County of Nor-
thumberland aforefaid.fer he benefit of the fevcral >'
0 f Pennsylvania l puffed f»r the L
relief of infolv«ni.BeSiors, ..d «h =f thc fci<l Cour(
bath appointed the Thirtieth d y «f November E
next, bemg the Friday of the Court of Common
H .eas, to hear lis and our Creditors at Sunbury, in
the County of Northumberland, at which time and
place you may attend if you think proper
WILLIAM STEEDMAN. ~
JOHN SMITH.
NorthumberlaHd, November 1, ,708.
November 7 '
' law3w
To the Creditors ,
Of Will'm M'Clelland, of Northumberland
County, in the State of Pennsylvania.
TAKE NOTICE,
r HA r I have applied to the Judges ofthe Court t
X of Common Pleas, in and for the Cojmty of >
Northumberland, for the benefc of the several laws
»f •ennfylvania, paflcd for the relief of Insolvent P Pr. r
Debtors; and tbe Judges of the said Court have ap- C "
pointed the Thirtieth day of November inft it be- th
ing the Friday of the court ef Commaa Pleas for c 0
the County of Northumberland, to heai me and
my Creditors at the Court House in Sunbury at °' :
which time and place my Creditors may attend if bo
tnejr think proper. j n ,
Wm. Mc. CLELAND. tic
Northumberland, November i, no%
iawjw
lo the Creditors of Nathan 11
Cobb, of the city of Philadelphia, Biack-
smith. -p
Gentlemen,
notice, that 11 ave applied to the Court
p , ,° , 1 om[ " on Pleas,for the city and county of
Philadelphia, lor the bensfit of the several l.ws
made far the reli.f of the insolvent debtors, and I
that the court have appointed the 27th of Decern I
ber, inftaut, to hear mc and my creditors ac the the
d court, in the said city, at which time and place tw
you are desired to attend P
. . NATHAN C6BB. M<
dCC - * fr at the
NOTICE. " , -
OAMUEL RICHARDET, informs the Gentle-
O men Subscribers, that the £XCH AN G K r
"I "P™" 1 for recep.ion ; and the C / TT
f° r Gentlemen and Travellers
Last added an addition of twelve Bed
uhambers to the fide building, which mates it
perte&ly convenient.
-° VemhCT6 uw_ offi f
Bank of tbe United States. k°L
November 14. 1-708 alw
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN\ u
"pHAT application will be made at the Trca-
L fury of the United States for the renewal
of a Certificate ot Six per Cent Funded Debt,
4 Offi r ,8 »" 81 dolbrS » " dated r
k e C VA? na " y 8,h ' *798, ifiued in I
mn ' nk ' J™ Willini,
Suhdai w Jacob Van Stapbor/l & Huboard, J
Truftces for sundry in Amfler!
lam; which was forwarded the nthof Janua- C
ry, 179*. under cover to Nicholas Obbes, esq.
ami loft by the capture of the (hip Columbus 1 0
:aptam Skinner.fromN- w-York for Amsterdam P 1
G. Simf>/ 6n , eajb'r. p ]rl
" 0Y 14 Hwfiw L"
LOST I H<
{KT r , ' d " 01
N one ot the ffrtets between Union and Sis- whei
p' l-rtl o C tL fh ir,ftant > the outfid'- Case stICT
,1> H! a ,ch ' cblfcd thebaak
. d An y P"fon who may find the
me, and Will tc thi , offic wiu .
,Xr rCUard ' sr - d 'banks of the
dtc -:- ; j.
Bank ct North AuierVa.
I THE Si'jcM*JJ.:r* are hereby notified, that ar.
| UledlH»fi for twclvt JJirtflors, for ■ lie ensuing
rom j yea r, v.-Kb» ! ei.i al ih. Bank on Monday, the
e of" j X4th us Jauuary u ten o'liock.
and j RICHARD WEI LS, Cafii'r.
-.fed | '-c- dtF.l
i TH t PARTNERSHIP *JF
kat I HALLOWEIX Sc K HOADS
nth . EEIN'G tf.i'day diffoived by mutual cpnfcnt.all
irea peifons haviugdeirand; again!) said Firm, are de
*s, | fired to hrirg h their ac:ounts for fettltnienr, and
laid thefewho arc iniebtcd are requefled to make im-
I mediate paymeit to Simuet Rhuads, who is *u-
I. thorized to receire the fame.
E. HALLOWELL
SAMUEL RHOADB.
dec. l §
the Tor sale,
the BY * IHE SUBSCRIBERS,
the '4 f° ur pound Cannon, .:i?u rent lengths,
iUc 5 Carrorades.
' o( : JOHN NIXON & CO.
December t. $
rm J
Notice.
■li A I.I» persons indebt«d to the Estate of J''4
tl JJ*rj,Ute of Sujthwark t baker, decealed,
are reqtierted to make immediate payment; and
fhofe Laving any demands again,'t ia ; d Ella te, to
forward their account- properly attelled, for fit
tlenn nt, to
CHRISTIAN BETZ, Administrator,
. no. Mulfce.-y.ftrcet.
• Philadelphia! decemher 3, 1798
if a NOTICE.
,m A P J®* 4 an 7 demands against
he A rhe eilate of the late Wiiu<u Clifton,
he deceafed,and who havsnot produced rheir
lie their accounts, are requ.ftud to fend them to the
at fubl'criber at no 171, north Stcond street.
15, ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'x
Philadelphia, gov. 39, 1798 m&th-jw
/I capital Hand for Butinefs.
i,d TO BE RENTED,
AND POSSESSION GIVEN,
On t/je Itb day of February.
THE commodious Four Story Brick Iloufe on
the Soittfc fide of Market, near Wafer
r street, at present occupied ss a Tavern, by Tho
mas Palmer. For terms, Enquire at the office
I of this Gazette.
Ip dcC S aawtf
h x TO iJK SOLD, I
g A quantity of choice limotky & Clover 1
; hay. !
„ Enquire of the Printer. . .
" decernber 7 1
d Just Imported, '
n Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
c with their carriages complete— 3 V 4,6 and o' '
ls pounders.
Carronadcs, Woolwiah proof, with carriages, 3te. 1
_ complete— f 2, 18 and 24 pounders. j
Cannon powder in kegs of 15 lbs each
Round, double-headed, and cannifler (hot ,
Patent (heathing copper, bright, affortcd 18. ao
e 11, 14, and 18 or per square foot, fhcets 48' e
- by 14 inches, suitable for wiTels from joe to f
1000 tons ,
Copper nails, bolts and fpikea
Boarding Pikes, £
~ Common cutlaffVs v
e Gunners (lores of all kinds ti
Tin-plates No I—l-3 crots boxes
,[ Patent (hot in cases of jewt. each
e London porter and >rown ftaut, in calks of 1 doi °
t bottl-'d. p
r Earthen ware i* t:.ates, alTorted P
II For Sale by t;
» MMON WALKER, C
1 . Pine near sth llreet.
° a ° ber "9- eo.tf. a
JOHN SHIELDS, d
BROKER, J
Embraces this opportunity to present bis thanks \
to his fellow-citizens for their p«fi favors k
| and acquaints them at he is return d from
Chefnut-MiU, to his former refiience, the £
House Ac. Chefnut between Front *
: tTTiirn "" ,l S«oijd-nrect, Ct
f \A/ f.® holds himfelf ready to execute ti
1 T_ 1 lr commands in every branch of' his ti
profeffion, truftmg that from a residence in this f-
C ]y 0 X e ?" he has it in his power to render ,v
them ffTential ferviee, afliiring them that his
cotnmiffion (hall be as low as an V in Town.
Lotts, Lands, Houses, VelTels, Certificates th
of every delcription and Bill, of Exchange: cc
bought and fold, thedocketts carefully S xa„,! .e
.oed and clear titles made upon the (horteft no- ,h
tice, by the public's hamble servant, th
_ , , John Shields.
C 7 Good negotiable Notes discounted
it a low premium.
Vem!,fr 1 3 iwtf
Bank of the United States - m
November 19, , 77 g. ™
NOTICE,
THE STOCKHOLDERS Of the Bank of the "
c ."" e<1 t S T ' ate,i arc informed, that according to lai
the Statute of Incorporatioß, a OeneralEleition for c!e
h e Trn;f/H% t T IU, ' eheld 11 of
M in tbc Cif y of Philadelphia, on mr
thelnrenoon. ? " lO °' cloA in tu,
law« n< !h P .% fUIB A £ ,° the CeAi ™ °fthe bye " al
fj si f St ° ckho,d «-s of the laid Bank are also ,hc
atified to affemsle in ge«cra! meeting, at the it,
fame place on Taefday, thf Bth of January next, idli
at 6 o clock in the evenins.
G. Simpson., Cashier. 1
oecond Fundamental Article. bei
Nat more thin three fourths of the Direflow in of
office eiclufive of the President, rtiall be tligibU f uc
ft i? k D Xt r ng r " T ' scut the Diredlor who fl,
iha l be President at the time of an rriv
alway.be re-eleftcd. «leitioH, may wq
novemheT 16 mtE fio ,
PHINTING Work, S
Of Every Kind, P"
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICK, wei
Ai the OffiXfc./ the ,GAz fette of the
OA 1, ° States . f
dtf ' pel
To the Creditors of the Subscribers day
P L r A f T ? ' AKE n/ ° TI ". 'hat we have 7;. J
J ad f ,o V h^° Urlof " ral '
f ' ° 'ne-benefit ot an aft of assembly, pa ss d the tho
a3»% c K«r"» -•>-««««;
PATRrc Kf, \ VaXAUGH, 'ft a i
JAMES DOLCHERTV,
PEI F.R G. ROSE, ten!
JOHN GREENE, oth
UWISC GR tF,
dec, 8. M C^LET
3ti^"
FRENCH SVNDJI'S,
< ar, "*>
m)S NO SUNDAYS AT ALL.
FRANCE.
;i Council of Fivk ieb,
25U1 Mcffidor (July 15iff'.
ON.the order of the day for renewing the
OS difculfioft 011 the project n-dpeitinrt the tleca
,all der\'feftivals, in whichor.e of the regulations
de- is, tliat marrages lhould only.be celebrated on
aUl ' thedecadi :
Gauthier (i f fJJvadus) Marriage,,, that
prolific l'iurce 01 virtue and of pleufure, will
surely meet no obftacl; from the reprefentp
tives of a nation. No, the. leg-illative body
§ wotfld not to retard the gttcomplitt)-
mtnt of the wifbes of nature, wyoi's voice is
fopowtiful in hearts v/hieh aspire to an union,
hs, " I fufpiot your committee oppose it in this
place : and I cannot conceive why, improv
ing on the fanuftical'and cidicnlous ruifS of
the Roman pontiff, it should withdraw from
the celebration of marriage nine days out of
ten, whereas he was contented to exclude on
ly hx days out of feyen. It will be e.ei'y for
iiid' me to deinonrtra'te the inconvenience of this
to measure. I will fuppoie tndrr, a mariner
»t- OT a soldier on the point of marriage, And.
who only waits for this blefled decadi, oblig
ed to depart 011 the premidi proceeding when
0:1 a long voyage, in obedience to the law—
- (hall inch a perion be obli ;trd to withdraw
from a b.doved f wcetheart the name of l'poul'e,
nft to which he chiefly alpires r" (Murmurs.)
tit Tf ) c orator demanded the celebration of
he marriage should be allowrd every day, from j
the rising to the letting fun.
Heutauit Lamcrville.—" If yon do not
_ adopt the measure proposed, yaur
fete.s will poflefs neither power, nop majelly, J
norattraflion, nor any thing else than the
fVadow of existence. The article on the
celebration of marriage eftablilhes the "rea- i
tell of our inllitutiona. Of the three great !
eveues of )ifc, birth, marriage and death, it
0 . i* marriage which Carries with it and deferres j
:e 'he greatcft degree of solemnity ; and it is I
th act which operates most llrongly on the
lenses and the imaginations of men. We
hear of the inconveniences which would at
tend marriages being confined to the decadi;
but before the revolution were marriages ce
lebrated every day ? And if you attend to
individual inconvenience, you oppose ohfta
— «les to every general measure."
The Council then proceeded to the dif
9 ' cuflion of the firft article—
" That the decadis and days of National j
Festival? shall be days of repose throughout
the Republic." 1
' Grand Molfon—" It Teems to me, that 6
i something more efficacious ftioul :be adopt- ''
8 ' ed. What ! while the High Priest of Rome
0 so long attacked byphilofophy, and at length
dethroned by our brave defenders, 14 obli- i !'
ged to carry about from place to place his i Jl
vagabond piety, (hall his Ministers dare still ! t:
to excrcife, in the midst. of us, art insolent
defpntifm ? They fay that the requisition 1
ot the young men is not contrary to the C ,
piinciples of the'r religion, which they r&- l '
pit ft tit as oLl,^r,;„ K liloodihrd, main
tain that Sundays (hotild be consecrated to
God, in idleness and floih.
" Thus, the inhabitants of the country
. ar; obliged to observe the feftivals thirty-fix
decadis, and, forced by the Prieft6 to keep
holy the Sundays, are n-flrained froai work
for more than a third part of the year.
< Vigorous measures muli be taken. It mud
be decreed that all feftivals and religious ce- ■
remonies fliould be performed o>i the decadis, I(
For too long a time has the sceptre of the 2c
cross pressed upon the French people. It is 3<
time to reli eve them from the chains of sana
ticifm, as they are already freed from the .■
fetters of rafalty. Refer all ceremonies to
ihe decadi. and the people, impatient of the ° r
yoke of the priests, will celebrate them on ?'
that day. Let the priests who refufe to ! n
corapiy be pini/hed, and their magasines of lS
teltcs (hut up Let them be confined (o
their fanftuaries, and if they choose to fay
thetr prayers their own way, we (hall not eo
to disturb them." V"
The article was ordered to be printed. *~ u<
On the articles for obliging all fliops to be ,a:
lhut upon decadi—
Genisfieux—Every republican beholds with ,°
indignation the icandalous practice of ftlHn- " e
g'oods publicly on decadi in tlve (Ireets of Pa- ,ari
ris whereas on Sunday the (hops are hermeti- P rc
cally closed. This formal contempt of the s°'
laws (hould be severely punilhed. The arti- I
cle was agreed to. I 1
Rriot.—.After some inveftiver a- j anc
gainst the contempt (hewn for the new infti- '
tutions, propoied that, under the several pe- ' W P'
nalfies, no person be fuffered to (hut up their w '"
(hops of a Sunday, or (hew any refpeCfc for
it, though tliey might if they pie a fed remain P ro
idle in their houles. Referred to a commit- 1 arr
tee. 1 doll
Crueze Latouch (on the farne fnbjecS I J
being resumed the next day) denied the right tr '°
los the Legillature to fay to a freeman on ■ s°>'
such a day you (hall, and on such another you * or
(hall not work. To employ this coercion cri .
would only irritate opiuions, inflame the pas. 2
(ions, and create dilcontcnt; whereas if citi- '
zens where obliged to (hut tip their (hops on l ' ial
the decadi, their own intend would soon tl,c
prevail upon thera to keep thera open on
Sunday. Men, according to his opinion, ,D a
were entitled to abstain from work when they
pleased. if t
Several members spoke in favour of com- r ' ca
pelling the (hops to be opened or a Si.n- tllei
day. vvar
Lucius Buonaparte (brother to the gene- g" 3 '
ral>-." Crueze Latouche has exposed to yen WOIJ
those eternal principles, never will' be y our
forgotten within theft wall. The decadi 3
the only national feftival—yes, you have a
right to fay fo—;t u the only national iefti-
val ; and you have a right to ordain that it
shall be observed by the ceffiition of anv of
teliable labor. But have yon a ri~ht on
other dr.rs to set bounds ft'the r?pt>!e or lr- A
' or of the people ? I repeat, h:ive you a
to lay to a freeman, On such a day voti UF
shali. ar.d on such a day you shall not d
work. ?—f Mnnnurj.) Perfection but Jr..
itmvs fai.aticjfm. It renders it more furi
ous—lt lends it t'"efh amis, and it redoubles
its ftretijfth". Even in Rome, the centre of
fuj*rft:tion, it was never ordained that the
Jews fhouid work on a Saturday, which with
tliem is obftrvej an a Sabbath and shall we
Frenchmen, we republicans, give I'uch a
. ,t,„ blow to individual liberty? I move the or
der of the day."
" I f
;„ m Several members called to have the difcuf
j fion doi'ud.
don - _ . ,
Lecomtre tfuyraveau v/as in favor of the
that re^ra ' l;t ' confide ring- tlie (hutting- up fliops
on Sunday as an aft of disobedience, and an
L externa! ligu of hatred to tlie revolution and
the republic.
The council adjourned without coming to
_j, any resolution on the iubject.
this KINGSTON, (Jam.) Oftober n.
£• I Two very smart shocks of an Earthquake
i)] i were felt in this town yesterday morning,
I t between five and fix o'clock.
or- iwo companies of the 56th regt. arriv-
j or ed from St. Domingo, marched into the
his barracks town, yesterday morning,
n> , and one company of the 17th foot yellerday
;„d cvt"'"br
j.,._ A company of the 60th regt. goes imme
diatcly /or Port Antonio, and another f.>r
. Port Maria Bay.
Oftober 15.
Arrived at Port-Royal, the ship Thomas
s.) }y :lion ' J ones > maft.r, of Philadelphia .
jhe was bound from lVtit OoSiive, to the
or Mole, v.'ith l'ijgar and c< lice, and was ftnt iu
)m bv his majesty's (hip Serpqiit,
Oftober 17.
101 "Yesterday morning his majesty's ship Stork
>y capt. Hayes, fa:!;d from Poit Royal on a
; y» I crulxc.
A Spunifh Brigantine, from Cuba bound to
he Pi rt( -B--lJfl, with tobacco and rice, and tle^
:a Schoona Pd'y, from Porto-Rico, bound to
■at St. i hom*s', with tt ba ;eev and coffee, under
• t Danilh colours, but supposed to be Spanish
res property, both taken by his majesty's ship
is Sheernefs, arrived yesterday.
he . , ,
Ve ■■ _
If j 0N THE HOUSE AND LAND TjiX,
:e- \
From the Hamtjhire G ant It.
MR. BUTLER,
'1 -J
---1 wtfh you to republifh the following cal
culation, or table, originally printed at
jt Portfwouth, (N. H ) with the additional
obftrvations. The federal tax on houses,
at wants nothing put elucidation to make
t _ lt P«feftly agreeable to every candid and
Je benevolent American.
Jeifure to go into a calculation on the fub
is ; J l ' e following flatement is made of the
jjj 1 tax on houses. It will be remembered, that
n j the valuation is to include in the building
n tMe lot qn which the house stands, not ex
ie ceeding two acres, and out huufii. If
thefe are valued at ICO dollars, the tax is
20 cents. If
0 u xmrrl —jy.
200 40 If 4000 20
y 3 0 ° 60 JOOO 2J
x 4°° 80 6000 30
500 1 00 7000 42
k 600 180 8000 48
7°° 2to 9000 54
II 800 240 10000 '6O
.. 9°° 270 15000 105
!t 'OOO £ 250C0 225
e 2000 § JOOOO
4 3000 12
This may eafdy be made more particular
by comparing it with the feconl feftion of
} the tax aft. It appears, for the confolati
e on iif the poorer fort, that the palace worth
t 5. sooo dollars, is to pay Jive t'mes as much
3 in proportion to its value as the cottage
f is worth only 500 dollars."
t 1 bus—Suppose there is in Boston or
Philadelphia, a mechanic, whose house and
} (hop are worth 500 dollars, he will pay a
V'X of one dollar. Supp'ofe there are 500
such mechanics, thfy will, of course, pay a
tax ofsoo dollars.
Suppose funher, that one man owns a
house a ;d out buildings worth 50COO <!ollars»
ne will tl en ha*e to pay n t<ix or 500 dol
lars , that is, he will pay as r<.-at a tax for
property worth only 50,000 doikrs, as tlie
500 mechanics will pay for property worth
250 000 dollars.
Or thus- My neighbour's farm house
1 and birn are wor h 500 dollars ; my house
' and bu ; ldings (and I am a farmer t >9) are
I worth 5000 dollars ; now my neighbour
i will pay a tax of one dollar, and I a tax of 25
' dollars : that in I shall pay as gr« at»a tax for
property worth 5; 00 dollar*, as 25 brother
, farmers will pay for property worth 12,500 1
1 dollars.
1 Aud if the pilace of the great and illus
trious Farmer of Mount Vernon is worth
, 50,000 dollars, he will pay as gr at a tax
tor it as 50? other farmers of the above dc
fcription, wll pay for property worth
250,000 dollars.
Tlie toi eyeing statements (hew clearly
tftat the federal government have confnlted
the interest of the poorer clafles of citizens
and have aimed in this, as indeed they have
in all their fifcal laws, to draw the public
Revenue from the purses of th* wealthy , and
if there is a jacob n, or Frenchified Ame
rican, who now bawls against the tax as bur
thenfome to the poor, I would beg leave to «
warn my fellow citizens to be on their j
guard, and in the language of inspiration, .
would fay, "Be fiber, be vigilant, becaufc
your adversary the devil, as a roaring livn,
<walktth about, feeiirg •j.'hom he may devour."
A FARMER.
WANTED,
A MIDDLE AGED WOMAN,to tske care
ot ckildcen,ftr inufl be well recommended
as good rcmper, honelty, foliriety and cleanli
ntfEsquire at No jjß Maket St.
Dec. ics , t .£be
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 10.
Extract of a letter from an American in
Spain, dated September 18, 1798.
«' The French privateers have as yet kept
at a refpeftable distance from our armed
merchant veifels in the Mediterranean : but
it i« said that French privateers of a larger
fire are fitting out to attack them."
TRANSLATION
Of the Letter from Lower Saxony,
September 26th, 1798. j
(Continued.) (
«« Let us not too badily credit the news (
which already represents Buonaparte in ex- j
tremc didrefi, which declares that he has
keen repulsed by the cavalry of the Beys, |
retreating towards Alexandria, entering that | t
place, and there entrenching hitnfelf as in |
the only post which is tenable against his
enemies for, although these reports are j
fubfequeat to the accou nt which announced a
his entry into Cairo, it is difficult to suppose
that, being matter of that city and of all ,
lower Egypt, he should have tuftered such
a rcverfe as to occalion him suddenly to re- j
treat sixty leagues—apd that, with chosen o
tlo.ips, the bell artillery of Europe, and
fkili'ul taftics, he should not have been able t
to maintain his fird advantages against the £
Orientals, but little aceudomed to war,
without taftics and without artillery.
"I am IVnfi that there are situations in j t
w ich valour and skill must yield to numbers, '■
that the bt(l artillery may become useless in j
vast plains ps fan*J*jnd that European t*c- 1 ti
tic* may be oifeoncertcd by the (hock of 1
those enormous mafies of cavalry, which the f j
Beys, in their forces, will alTemble. .
I likewise the French have ene- j
mies to combat in Egypt much more formi
(table than the Beys, and againtt which {1
neither valor nor ta&icS can avail—the cli-
mate, pedilenee, and famine. But let us t|
admi' that Buonaparte has succeeded against -
these enemies, and that the bell part of E
gvpt has submitted to his power—Do you Jj
bulieve that he has not been weakened by t j
the enemies over whom he his triumphed ? ,
Do you believe that, his communication j
with Europe being henceforth entirely cut :
, off, he has nothing to dread from the dif- t j
contents of the country which is fubjefted ; j f a
nor from the Beys who are flill in arm's ; , u
nor from the forses of the Grand Signior, ()|
become the enemy of the Republic ; nor 1 u ,
from the diseases, which will desolate his \ n(
army before it,is seasoned to the climate ? Ij,
" The hoftilitv of th« Grand Signior, and
the imprffibility of receiving succours from
Europe, mud inevitably prove fatal in a
country whrre he cannot recruit his force.
A month ago we might reasonably have e f r "
doiibuH th* hgftib'ty OmuJ fltgm'or. 13
Every thing led to a belief that he approved,
or at lead permitted the expedition of the t,
French—the confidence with which they
failed to Egypt, the pains taken by their 1
friends in that country, the appartnt indif- j
ferenee of the Divan, and the total inactivity j P.
of tbeTurkilh Minister, who saw all their C '
movements at Paris, without demanding Zt
any explanation from the Divan. But there 01
is no longer either indifference or inaftivity
on the part of the Ottomans ; and while the a |
Journalifls remark that the Turkilh Minister
at Paris wears an air of fnrprife, the French
Agent at Conftantirople is tr u'y aft«nifhed
at th« vigoroUi measures of the Porte.
" You are acquainted with those mea- re
fures involving a' declaration of war—)Pb\i
arc acquainted with the rery supplicating
memorial prefcnted by Ruffin ; the interces
sion of th: Batavian Minister, and his severe
reception ; the conduA of the Spanish Mi
nister, who, forgetting all decorum, told m ,
the Reis-Elfendi that the French had inva- °*
ded Egypt for the benefit of the Grand 111
Signior ; the dry and fcnfible reply of the f e
Ottoman Minister to this shocking incon- le
gruity ; the arrests to which Ruffin has been
fnbje&ed j the order which has beea given at
him to takedown the insignia of the Repub
lic ; the firmans directed against all the Z
French } the military preparations com
menced against them in every quarter ; in
fine, all that dignity and energy which, in | 1
the Divan, has succeeded t® that imprudent
indifference, the effefts of which present re j
to every neutral power a great and mcmora
ble leflb'n.
rot
a 1
The fleet of the Sans-culottes loft in the for
late engagement with admiral Nelson, 5226 am
men, killed, blown up and drowned, and toi
3705 prisoners,—according to authentic ac- of
counts in the Leyden Gazette. The pril'on- the
ers, may be conlidered as destroyed, in the de- yei
termination of admirral Nelion to land them* at'
TRANSLATIONS,
fAI
. ... ■ not
Leyden, O&ober 9. has
Gr
Extraft of a letter from Paris, OA. 2. no
The return of the division of Bompart to tiv
Brest, appears to be confirmed : He had not tha
been aMe to continue his course for Ireland, tio
on account of the Engliih squadrons which ing
he knew to be in those quarters. We are mn
without any further news from Malta, much lie
less from Buonaparte, nor from Egypt. ced
dif]
Extratt of a lettter from Condantinople, reg
dated September 5. Fn
<l At length the event so unexpected to fun
aril'e »ut of the' mod antient alliances, has Lo:
come to pal's : yesterday thefirft interpreter of the
the F«rtc communicated to all the ministers as but
well as of allied as of neutral powers, the de- fori
claration cf war of th* Grand Sigr.ior against froi
France. This piece is the strongest and mod del)
Vgerou: which has for a long time ifTued our
«
~ from-the Oftom m C.,Si>wt: It& gri.r, ances, ' ,
its reprcacl.jj a;v w. u ljaifjd, acd its ex
pixrHians i:.ll L'i 51:. It there p'lintJtlie pro- •
'— ot the f iencli-;;ov w with a .
pencil of the da:'!;.'!! lii.tcle : ami klien we
call to mind tho aiu.: ,*nt amity wlvcj has fub
fift*d during so act ween the Tur- ] i
ifli and French empires, the footing of inti- j
macv upon which tile two powers have so lonj |
in been, and flill v/ere. ujjtil within afe« years, '
one cannot help accounting the animolity, :
which jjervaaes the barj and bitter style of
P' the Ott:una.i jji ajifefio, amongst the changes
led uilprovid-d against in the national reports, 1
)Ut which t!« ir.ftability of the political world 1
frequently involves, but which have never been j
> er so frequent or f'j deeilive as fmce the epoch of
the French revolution. It deals out with '
prodigality against the .French nation, the 1
epithets of treacherous, perfidious, faithlefs, t
... •' It reproaches her with proje&s -of
' l ' ul'urpation and of cotjqueft, It complains of
her ambition and of lier Want of faith in the ;
w> obfervation|of treaties, See. In a word, this a
x declaration, conceived in the greatest hatred,
as " has produced the eileil, which miglrt be ex- t
r4 from it ; it has excited the de- r
at ' , ct l' u " ,J , lar iur y against the French : v
; n they have alloeen arrested ; and, if there re- v
l!s mai'ieda single individual at large, the suspi
cions which are entertained against France, of b
having fomented the revolt of PaflawanOglou fl
f e haviijg lurniflied him with the means
,11 of so !o "5 u reiilhnce, would coil him his
life. The rapture with France is to be ac- J
' companied with new efforts against him :he v
is to be pre'ted with the greatefl energy : all v
. overtures of reconciliation, ail
j J hi.j ceased : Widd.ri is more ftreightened 0
than ever and PafTiwap Oq;lou begins to "
fad in provisions. In virtue of the inoft ex- i
* profs orders from the Porte, measures have
j been takeu to establish ord<r amongst the ''
1 troops of the Serafkier,' who is to aft against ' 5
*' j hun> vit " ws which they appear to'have it
in had on Wallachia and Moldavia-will he fVuf- -1
c " tratedat oikc."
'f j J,
' Extraift of a letter from Raftadt, Sept. 30. g
t l j " Every part of the 'political horizon, w
' blackens daily more and more ; the clouds
,|j thicken,aod the thunderfeems ready to burst:
j_ ' the leparation between France and A:iftria, ' tr
u : has attained its extrejnefl degree: already this let
tenlion, on the point of breaking, would j „
u . puflied to excess, to in •,ve were not only to ■ al
v ihed blood : but the two parties realize, that !°1
> they will have to combat for their exiflence ; i oi
n I is n °t ignorant, that the revolutioary I
j J Principles let ill ailivity by French influence J er
f ; will have no objeil but the overthrow of her l is
. ; throne, and that of all the princes of the ol
I ! family. France beholds the numbers of her
' adversaries encreafing with the developement
' of her projects ; while fix years of war have
1 utterly exhaufled the resources, which (he
j needs to enable her to fuflain the efforts of her cc
domestic and foreign enemies." w
d be
™ Coire, (in the Grifons) Septl 15. I
Our former government, which the influ- [
e cnce of France had caused to be flukes la.
fonifu citabflflinlents, at the
' commencement of the year, has been restored. f
e Meflieurs Troll, Burger-mafler, and ancient , 1
President of the confederation ; Daniel Salis ,
r chlef the tribes ; and Frederick Salis, Re
. corder of the Federation, have been, by a
j plurality of the tribes, re-instated in their an- tn
? r cient plaees and dignities. All other citi
-7 zens the Grifons, who had been turned tf
» out of office, have been re-instated. j tl(
[Thus the trade of Government-making ' m
dady declines ; the time will soon come, when 1 W<
r all the humbled vafTals of the Great Nation
h mufl lhake off their garments of blood, and i ,
j assume their old habits. Thus do the works ' ,
of the revolutionizers perifli before their eves
—thus do they follow them, ere they have ' t ,°
rested from their labors.] th
? Co 1 re, 17th September.
E The opening of the Diet of the Three Gri- .
. f° n Leagues, took place the 12th of this
j month at Ilanz. The most efTential business . '
. of the Diet was the appointment of a G>m- lr
[ mitte to answer the French Resident, Flo- e
. rent Guyot, relative to the fatisfaftitn whijeh 0
1 he has demanded. They also abolilhed by a P .°
j great majority, the form of oath prescribed , C
( at the reformation in 1794. ")'
ad
■ n tie
; Recommencement ofHo/lilities th .
' r fa'
I I Extras of a letter from Paris, zdOZiber. fle<
Although the adtirefs to the French nation,
' relative to the recommencement of hostilities £ a '
in Germany and in Italy (which want of" lu<
room prevents us from mltrting this day) is of
a symptom too alarming, not to give room l ' lt:
: for fuppoling the probability of such an event; ed
1 and notwithstanding the movement of troops an<
1 towards the Upper Rhine and Switzerland, tJlc
• of which the advices from Strafburg contain lov
the details ; the friends of peace ought not
■ yet to renounce all hope of feeing it renewed ed
at lead in Germany. In giving an account bac
of the augmentation of the forces at Kehl, ret
Auenheim, and upon the whole border of the
Alsace, the fame letters from Strafburg an
nounce, not only that general Schauenburg Ex
has not yet entered into the country of the
Grifons, but also the probability that he will
not enter it, in order not to furnifh a mo- we
tiveof rupture to Austria, who has declared yea
that ihe will consider that step as a declara- wil
tion of war." Another motive for believ- ing
ing that, in spite of preparations each day pel
more menacing, between the French repub- the
lie and Austria, neither party has yet renoun- Fre
j" t " e . continuance of negociations, is the dan
difpohtion, which is about to be made, in and
regard to the place of envoy extraordinary of Sea
r ranee to the Batavian republic. These the
funchons are about to be confided to citizen cout
Lombard (cf Langres) formerly member of cur
the Convention, and now judge of the 'J'ri- at a
bunal of CafTation : he let off the day be- twe
fore yesterday for t!ie Hague. We infer Ott
from thii, that, this pod having before been fpei
deftmed for tlie minister Roberjot, one of the
our Plenipotentiaries at Rafodt, this last Sue
- '
•s, csi.not very soon return, and ti..,ic. ,lc|ut:tt;-
x- iv thsrj i>. very appearanVi. of i liajNpy period
®- 1 to th-* •. .-^ociation.
J' [Didever man hear before, such fiiinfyev
b- idecces ? B-caufe Mr. lcoundrcl Schauem
k- ; burg is not going- to invade tlie Grifous, an
attempt to fraternize whom thccpiperor has
s, declared he will contlder a declaration of '.vat'
y, and becaule the dineclory have concluded not
°| to removg one of their juggler? from Raftadt
S) to Holland, as they liad thought of doing ;
Id this wifcacee concludes that war v, ijl not take
p ' place, although it has formally recommenced)
and, as it seems, the direflory have found it
le necefTury to utter a new compound of Sophn"_
try and jargon, to reconcile their flares to
the measure. No ; this fellow is a fool.
, e The war has recommenced, as it ought long
ago to have done ; the Emperor has found,
that the inlidious villains, while contending,
months together, for the demolition of Kehl,
- were aiming only at the demolition of his
whole Empire. He has wifely resolved to
,f be beforehand with them, and to strike, him.
u felf, the blow their treachery meditated a
' gainst him. From the above elaborate pro
_ diidtiori, as well as from the whole tenor of
e various late foreign pi ints, now before me,
' which, no longer declaiming on the necejftly
j of " hurling tyrants from their throws,"
3 " avenging humanity," and Ipreading the
- li imprescriptible rights of man," breathe on
.» ly hghs after peace,—the inference is inevita
i ble that tluy find themselves in an attitude,
b in which they look upon war with horror.
'l'aif is a fdCi of the moll glorious nature.
Now will th:-ir own maxims be mar (hailed a
. gamft them. " Eternal war against tyrants"
, { will be the general cry ; the hardy peasantry
; j of Germany, the free dtiz.ru of Ruflia, the
j | tnlighic-,cdfollowers of Mahomet, under uait
* I ed banners, will march on to the cxplofion
' | and annihilation of the filthy, lewd, profane
} j and nonsensical republic. While the nation
t ! of Nelsons confines them within their dens,
I # '
: j other juflly inercilefs enemies every wher e
. | encircle them with a wall of fire. This work
. • is begun : mean while they arebufy in their
■ old and proper trade, of cutting one ano.
thers throats.]
O&ober 3.
The last news from Switzerland depift that
. country as tranquil, since the terrible example,
which themiferable people of Unterwald have
been subjected to : those of Sweitz have been
1 obliged to deliver up the principal chiefs, who
{ had caused it to take a part in the infurrec
' tion. As to the countries of the Grifons,
the rcfideiu of France, Frorent Guyot, has
quitted it : he is at Ragaz, in the diftrift of
Sargens, cant9ll of Lintz. It is neverthe
less apparent, that the fatisfaftioa which he
has demanded, involves hostilities, of which,
in the present conjunfture, it would be ex
tremely difficult to calculate theconfequences.
{Tranquillity in Switzerland! Yes, flie is
tranquil—quiet as a felled ox, or a planta
j tlon after a hurricane. Her tranquillity
; must be sublime, and her days must pass in
i wonderful equanimity, difturb'ed only by some !
; requilition, or one or two executions now and \
: then, for insubordination and incivifm.— •
i Look at this beautiful tranquillity, Mr. Gal- !
latin, do look at it, and let us have a navy
! to defend ourselves, and revenues to defray
the expeni'e of it.]
LE\ DEN, Ottober 8.
We fcve received by the Port of the Em- ,
pire, on the 3d of this month, the order of
the Porte, addrefl'. d to Caimacan, by which,
m announcing the dismission of the Grand ,
Vizier, Izzed Mehemet Pacta, « as abettor
of crafty designs of France," and the ap- ,
pomtmentofhis successor JuiTuf Pucha, Go- ,
vernor of Erzerum, r.rders the publication ,
by him of war against the French, and the 1
adoption of meaiuresto repress their holKli- ,
ties.
It appears that this event, so unexpeded ; .
-the unequivocal part which Ruflia has, at the
lame time; taken, the disaster of the Toulon
l-.'i 1 da "S cro " 3 Pofitkm of Buonaparte : ,
the 111-luccefs of the expedition concei ted a
gamft Ireland, [and, tho' the Leyden Editor
has omitted it, we may add, the noble vigour .
01 the American admiuiftration]—that all T
these circumfta.ices combined, have augment. (
ed the desire ol peace, on the part of France,
and that the conceflions made at Raftadt are c
tjie firft fruits of it, which must soon be sol- »
lowed by other effetts.
An Expedition avainft Leghorn was talk*
U |°!" V convo > ' which it was pretended
had left Toulon to take pofTeffion of it, is
returned, occording to news from Paris of
the 4th of October. r:
_ n
Extract of a lett;r from Constantinople, ad U
September. "
Yesterday, we beheld here a fpeftacle, which u
we had been far from expefting these many B
years to come, and which, without doubt, f j
will be accounted amongst the most aftonilh- tj
mg and unexpected events, amongst those
political combinations, which wander from jj
the natural order of things, but which the
French revolution has hatched in great abun
dance. We saw a Ruffian fleet, numerous f r
and well-equipped, coming from the Black S ,
Sea, palling before the Seraglio,and traverfmg .)
the Canal, to enter the Archipelago. The
coup d oeil was i'uperb ; but it was yet more JT
curious to behold the Mjiflelmen, ffiouting
at an event, which they would have resided,
two years ago, as fatal to the interest? of the
Ottoman Porte. Ihe multitude whom the
■peftacls, drew together, was immense ; and
the joy itexeited, unbounded and incredible,
uch is tti iffedt of the impreflion wjiich the D
• 3
*
-lit- ejipeditioji at uie French into
r iod caused, and the perfnafijui, which h.s. '-felt< d
from it, that a government, whicli calls itli lf
ev- threat Nation, aspires to imiverfal domi
nation by the destruction of all others* by
-m- tlie abolition of tlicir worffaip, of their man
an ners, and their culloms. "Ruflia has profited
has ' l * Nazv, cry the Turks (earaptured to
. behcJld the Rullian ilett advancing under
crowded fail and a fair wind towards the
not 11 Lite Sea)—JV'ow the peace wirlj RuJJia may
:adt en dure long, long indeed— May it UJI for agti!
In truth, it is difficult to fx a naval arina
'S? ' meat under the Ruflian in th"fe waters
ake where the Port- never till now fufleVd any
:edi toreign fleet,—to f*e it palling untler tlie walis
i tlsc Seraglio, without finding'a pledge, not
merely of recoticiliation, but even of the
I" 1 , close sfliance which is eftabliflied between the
sto Grand Sig!iior and the Emperor of the Ruf
>ol. i >ol 'U had ncvertliclefs taken cer
tain precautions, comprised in a convention
which has been concluded, relative to this
r»d, between the General Tamara, Mi
np? mfter of the Court of Rujfia, and the
, Reis ESend.. In virtue of that agreement,
" ' the Ruffian vessels have only pafled by two
his and two, in traverfin * the canal; atid they
to werc prohibited from forming a junction till
after having pal Ted the Dardanelles, ui'd a
rv " certain distance from it.
a- Just after the Ruflian fleet had pasTed, in
ro _ the midst of the marks rtl pulilic iov, the
Porte received, direftlv from E pt, thi
ot news, that tlie Arabs had had the imprudence
Its, to attack the French in their entrenchments.
Ttty T! ; e y Wf re repulsed with a very confidcrabk
g y f s > ,J t tlie French, on their fide, have not
'' obtained this advantage without l'uffering
•he severely. At the cloie of this action, BuGra
in- parte, at the head cf fix thouiand men, of
p.. th . e si of tis army, had taken possession
_' of Cairo. Independently of the diminution
■le, winch the French army experienced bv thele
Dr. continual combats, the uuiiiber which it had
r c. loft by sickness was still more comiderable, at
a . the middle of August : they were found to be
( - in great quantities in the hospitals : the reft
ot the forces of Buonaparte occupied Alex
;ry andria and other quarters.
[I publiffi the following, although the
it- result it Counts on has been anticipated, be- '
cause a gentleman has taken pains to fend it
ne all the way fijum Georgia-]
t '^ u 2 u fi a < (Geo.) zijl Nov, 1798. 1
10 PO»>ULI TOX DEI. :
is, File leaving out of Mr. Baldwin in our '
re federal representation, ii a happy illustration •
_ k of the foregoing maxim, and there is no 1
doubt but it would apply generally, were
:ir the public mind equally informed on every '
f u^ e . a on wlllcl * «t has to decide, as well as 1
it is in the present instance. Returns from '
sixteen counties ha*e been received, by '
whwji it appears Col. Talliafcrro of Wilkes
" county, has 3635 v®tes, James Jones, Efc}. '
e ' of Chatham conuty, 3364. and Mr. Bald■ 1
' e *"' n iBzB :—the eight counties, whose re- .
n turn* are not knowo, are generally remote,
'° and bear ns comparison in point of popula. t
tion to the others, so that if Mr. Baldwin ]
s ' has the most favorable poll which can be
counted upon throughout them, it will not
affect the ele£iion of Cot. Tallioferro and
Mr. Jones. F
ie
The famous rebel, Holt, has been con- <3
J" dusted a prisoner to Dublin, and his party
" destroyed.
is
A fellow was committed to jail on Satur
> day last, by Mr. Alderman Jennings, for
u damning the Piefident, and all who took his
'"j part. He is a laborer, and a native of Vir
ginia. The figti of the Liberty Pole and Cap.
~ in the Northern Liberties, was the scene of
~ his c'rvifm. His name is Langford Heron.
• By the Pol=(ki from Hamburg, at New-
York, papars to O&ober 16 are received.
1 he only news of any moment, is'a report,
said to ha»e come by this v (Tel, that Buona
-- parte's army had been totally destroyed.
if
i) The Dagger Mer\ lhall hear from me a
d gain, anon. a
r N. B. If Jasper is determined to suppress
•- the promised '« Address of the United I
- rifhmen," bring it to me, and I will ei«e it "
n place.
His E. of P. is laid on the ffielf only f, r
- want <A room.
The Curtain Juggler will not be forgot
i ten. ' p,
c Poll Office insolence and opprejjion, (being
n a long history) requires more time than I A
5 can at present bestow »n it.
r MARRIED—On Sunday evening, the
r 9th of December, by the Reverend Samuel
Magaw, Dr. John Meer, to Mrs. Sarah
- Goui.d.
' 1 the fame Evening, by the Rev.
= Samuel Magaw, Mr. John Moore, junr. ~
- to Miss Sarah Goulu, both of this City,
j CONFESS. N
s Houfe of Reprefentativej of the it
United States, this day, orders w6re feve
railv pafled for the appointment of a com-'
mittee of claims, a committee of revifal and
j unfiiiilhrd business, and a committee of com
merce and manufadures The house then
proceeded to ballot for a chaplain 5 where
> upon it appeared that for the Rev. Ash.
bell Greek, there were 55 votes, and
> eight fcaitering—ontof wh ch was for the
" Rev. Dr. Prieflly.
The house then adjourned till to-morrow
1 morning, it o'clock.
In the Senate this day, Mr. Stockton, 1
from the committee on the President's •
Speech, reported the form of an answer
thereto, the coofideration of which was post* to
poned till to morrow, and in the mean time to :
ordered 10 be printed.
Ihe right Rev. Bishop White was
unanimously chosen chaplain to the Senate.
Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a gopd Bri-aft of Milk» exi
Enquire at No. 58 Sauth Front ftreei,
Dec. 10. r
T* ®aseti* sparine Jtnf:
~ . .
;i - Port of Philadelphia.
n . A RIVED, . Days.
n " Sehr. Sinceri.y, Monteatb, La Guiia, 26
Maximilian. White, do ii
t0 Sloop Industry, Mac re, NorfjJk, 9
Foreign Clearances,
. Ship Win. Pcnn, Volant, • Batavia
*y Liberty, Miller, Montevida
'■ Neptune, Lake,fa flag) C Francois and
a- r
jeteimc
rs Spy, Weft, burii am
A. Hamilton, Remington, Martinique.
Louie*, Reilly, L«gW"u
l'ame, Jones H*»anni
Jofcphus, Kennedy, ditto
™ Roebuck, Shewell, • ditto
1 " Two Friends, Earl, ditt&
r " Barque Triton, Npilkcr Bremen
'!' Brig Clarissa, Nicols, LaGuiia
Nymph, Hardy, ditto
Mercury, Kuhn, St. Thomai
American, Veni», Gibralter
C '- Rose, Mcany, River de Plata
0 Two Siftera, Watson, lio'land
Fair Thomforr, Surinam
Gayofa, Bingham New O. leans
Polly, Smith, Havanna
Lavinia, Cafli ■, ditto
Scht. Maria Matilda, Morse, ditto
Maria, Brown,' ditto
•c . Ford, ditto
' Zenith, ShirtclifF, New Orleans
£ Nancy, Miidcv, * ditto
Minerva, Ar.daulle, St. Thomas
Sally. Sherer, Surinam
_ Little, Fanny, Fofdick, d.'ttor
Coalers.
n Brig Fair Amcriean ,Labbree, St. Georges
n Cyrus, Dagaet. Button
Hopewell, Dowlirg, Salem
j Fly, RuflU, Nixonton
lt Sshr Jo'in, Bnker, Bollon
ie Fanny Brids>cr, Dunn, N.York
Sally Hallam, d.tto
Lttle Betl'y, Welsh, N. rlolk
Faverite, Sweetzer, CharWttou
Hetty, Keen, Savannah
e Tryal, Baer, Alexandria J
Sloop Nancy, Mofelev, New-Yoik .
; t Fox, Bunker, New-Bedord'
Captain Alhmead, of the India, failed
from the Isle of France the 9th
and left there the ftiip Flora, Me
r and From Philadelphia, arrived th r
j July, and to fail for Europe aijou
B September;/hip Gang' !, LtrgfoH 01
e York, from Batavia, Bound to i u!v.<
r in in distress and seized, vcfF. 1 a 1 1 r.-
s demned, for some irregfl ari-y u her nepers
a (the Ganges failed from Lt .icJc .f r BAi. via)
j ship Orion, Cunningham,- of B f'oo from
s Batavia for Eurppe, ailo put in in dillrefa
the 13 th of July, seized aid on trial; (hip
Mary, Rodman, arrived from RV.jd: Island
June 7th, and to fail home Bih S. pt:
Sept. 13th. off Cape La Glill , spoke
the (hip Mars, of Nantucket, fr 11 Dewgo
Bay to the Coast of Bralil, on a wh-nlina: .
voyage.
t Brig Morning Star, ffsafe, from Jamaica
j to tSIs port, has been captured by a French
privateer, and ordered for Havanna
Sloop of war Ganges, Capt. Tingcy,
. dropped down yesterday morning.
For sale by the Sub/cribers,
The Cargo of the Schooner
Sincerity, from LAGUIRA,
IJ3 feroons of cottoa
1 40 Kdo. of indigo
.tw of cocoi
2056 kidei
4 bundles of gum
: }»»«
x bale of D:er Ikius
Willings & Francis.
Hcceraber to, ir9B d t f
For JXEW-rOKK, *
™ E BRI °
■ ann hary,
. CAPT. Muuvhy,
£Vs3saf FREIGHT will be taken on venr
moderate terms—apply to * ST
Jofcpb Anthony isf Co.
d<c - t0 dn
AUGUSTUS FRICKE, "
Woollen Draper S«f Men's Mercer
- S,T °- I,fouth Thirdflreet,
HAS RECEIVED,
per the la it arrival fruni Europe, a large alFort
aient of the falhionable Gbodi in his line.
And has conjlantly for sale a general ajfort
ment of 7
Hr f t rate London fuperfrne Broad
Cloths
Cafli meres
Veil Patterns of all kinds
And every other article m the gentleman's line
by wholesale and retail.
decernlicr io dtf
Java Coffee,
35° Bags of Fir ft Quality,
Now lan ling fron on board the l.'i p INDIA
it Mr Thes. Penrofe's Wharf, and for sale by
John Ashmead,
n - South f roiu-Street.
who Has on hand,
For Sale, on reafunable terms*.
CofTacs '
Batus
Black TafTaties, &c.
-±L!£ I codtf
NOTICE.
Cop VKTNCRSBIPOP
HUDSON is? YORKE,
I ■-this day diffolvcd hy mutual conftnt. All per-
I son, indebted to said firm are reqnefted ,0 mak.
immediate payn,cm_a ,d those v. ho have a»Tde!
w WU^rM UC^?., ° P re^eat for fcttlcment
; to »r DSON - wh) " Ju,y auth °'^ d
WIL'.IAM HUDSON
SAMUEL YORKK.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
No * 54, mouth '*o ',*T-ST*eit
<• n- fiile on the ufaal ternis i a very
extensive aflbrtmcnt of
dry goods.
D«c. 10.
3».Iviibs Broadhurst
RESPECTFULLY frienii wdtii«
public fhr. having \ \
A CONCERT,
or. I'uef.lay next, at O'Elleh's Hotel. 0 f r
r**T ift. v,i.
Overture, wee
Tot!;;, Ellen arifc, Miss Eraadhurft ( | a y
Qm rtette, o \\,
iong, Mr. Darley fi x ;
Duet', Violin & Claronet, Mcurs. Collet am. P r
Dubui' n
Italicn Sorp,—-Si nor piange, Miss Broadhurft
Clee, three voices—Lullaby.
*a*t id. I
Overture, of 1
Song,—"The NewSum.bodv," [composed me i
j by B. Carr) Miss Broadhurft thei
Sonats, Piano Forte," Mr. B. Carr
Song, Mr. Darley
Concerto, Clarinctt, Mr. Dubois
N;w Song,(the Flower Girl)M!fs Broadhurft
Glee, three voices—Sigh no more Ladies.
To begin at leven o'clock.
Tickets one Dollar each to he had at Carr's Mu
lical Repofitorv, Market-ftrect—O'Ellcr's Hotel,
and of Miss Broadhurft, No. 179 Areh-ftreet. £j
dec ; 14t
For Sale,
45 Boxes Havanna Sugar
56 Hhde. St Croix do ( Entitled to
$ t Bags Carracas Cocoa C (Diawback. j
3j lihds. Coffee )
RUNDLE & LEECH, ha
No. 9, Walnut-street- P a
dec 3 8?
For sale
By the Stibfcribers, fci
OH VERY LOWTERMS
WAX CANDLES, g
of a surrnjo* sualitv, ;
Either by the single box of Z4ibs. or by the quan - ' h
tity-
Wtilings & Francis.
Nov. 24 an
"PARTNERSHIP OF an
Alexr. J. Miller, & Co. ™
HlilNG dissolved on the firlt infiant, by the nr
death of James Davis, aliperfons indtbted ,
to the fame are requested tn fettle with the fub
feriber, and those to whom th:y are indebted are lu
requested lo call on him for payment.
ALEXR. J. MILLER,
No. 64, South FrontJlree!.
Who has on hand, e°
TO BE DISPOSID OF ON LOWTXKMS, in
Jiy the Package cr Piece.
Fine plain and tamboured Muslins ci
Guzzennas
Battas
Coffaes
RabobguHgies
India Callicoes
Book Muslins
Coloured ditto
Real & Mock Madras & puilicat hkfs.
brown Sileftas
Tickings, <sc. &c.
JUST ARRIVED,
AN ASSORTMENT OF
Iriih Linens Sff Russia Sheetings. c
nov 2S < i
The Subscribers i
Hare received by the late European arrivals, the
Following Merchandize, fll
Shipped thc<n principally on configßnieiir,vrtith
they Oiler, by package to Wholesale i>tore Keepers, y
or others, on very advantageous terms, for cafli, ce
approved notes, or bills of exchange on London. e .
Medford is* Willis, ft
sjo. 78, North Front Street, g'
IRISH LINENS.
Priated calicoes, furnitures, purple and colored „
{ha \v Is
Muslins, plain, striped, ehecked and fancy
Balalore, jaconet and book hasdkeichiefs
Pins and sundry baberdalhery
Scorch and colored threads r
Scarlet cloth cardinals
Duraiits and calamancoes 0
Worlted, cotton and fancy hosiery f,
l'\lt, cattor and beiver hats
Vorklhire plains and broadcloths j- (
Plain and twilled coatings and duffills n
Cafftmeree and fwanfdowns j
Stripe, point and role blankets j (
White colortd and Wellh flannels
Knapt Kendall cottons j,
VVorfted and mohair plushes
Pewter, assorted in small casks j
j, ides, Ihovels, frj-ing pans & ironmongery
An invoice of Watches &
103 calks nails assorted,
nov it 6
FRESH FRUITS.
Thii day. will be landed at Hamilton's
wharf, from on board the brig Eliza, j
captain Vaughan,
MALAGA FRUITS, <
Of the best quality, conKfting of
Sun Raisins in kegs,
Mufcatd and Bloome do. in bsxes,
Figgs in kegs and boxes, t
Soft (helled Almonds in sacks,
Jordan do. in boxes,
Lemons in ctells,
Anchovies in kegs, ,
Pruens in boxes,
A few jars Grapes, See. &c. ]
Also on band, \
Holland Geneva in pipes, |
Sherry Wine in quarter calks,
French and Spanifc Brandy in pipes and 1
butts.
Best Olive Oil in boxes of 12 bottles.
'For Sale by PETER KUHN,
No. J79, N. Market Street.
December 6. diot
FOR SALE,
No. 7, South Fourth-St*eet.
1000 pieces Nankeens,
A Box of Silks
jo Boxes powdered Sugar Cindy of !33Wt.
A parcel very fine Caflia.
v C HMGHT.
dec J 3awiw
FOR SALE,
By the Subfcrlbcrs
200 Bolts Russia Duck,
50 pipenl.ondon paiticular bill MadciriVVine
1 paii nine pound Cannon
A few Bales Madras Handkerchiefs
Fine Flota Indigo
13 Barrels Beef.
Willings & Francis:
Pcnn-flreet, )
November a 8 > §
- ; 4
/
Dancing School.
u- r 1,1
V- »| I L |aM M-DOUGAI.L orefents hi? r?f- |
V n .-ar»l complim-nt» to the public : take? j
the YJiity *f informing. lii.m, that at the requ"lt j
of mapy ->f his ferr-r employed, he will open A 1
hi- -caooi, a'hi* C<-l Room, in Fourth, bet
vten Chefr-omrM Walrut streets.on the Srfl Mon
day of Dicem' cr—For Young I.adi«» at ten
o'clock. In the morning—and for Gentlemen, a* I 2 I
fu in tVs evenings of Mondays, Wedoefjays aad
Fridays.
Nov. ;8 folm I
ALL PERSONS 7 C
In<!rbted to th» Eftace of Mr. John FBNNO,late 1
of Philadelphia, deceased.are dtfired to make pay- J
rnent, and fhoie having any demands, to prtfent 1
them for fettUivenf, to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r. 3°
or I 3
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent 30
to the administration. I 1 z
finv. Jo I
Lancaster County Butted,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-street, 1
near Third-Street. i
dec I § 5
WOODBURY ACADEMY. \
THE Trufleesof the Woodbury Academy, I i
m the c~nhty of Gloucester, New-Jersey, I :
have the fatisfaiSion to inform the numerous I 1
patrons of that iriftitution, that they have cn- |
gjged the Reverend Thomas Piclon, to be the 1 1
principal, and to take upon himlelf th« charge I
of the above femmary of learning, and that the | l!
school wifl be opened on Monday the tenth init. I
Among the exercises taught here, will be the I
English, Latin and Greek languages, £ramati- I
cally.—Reading, Writing and Arithmetic in all |
its branches; Stenography, Geometry, Geogra- I
shy and the use of the Globes, Navigation, Sur- I
I vey ing , Isfc.
This institution was formerly under the care I
and direflion erf the Revtrend Andrew Hunter, I
and the fame attention to the education and me I
rat's *of Ihe youth, which under him so highly I
diltinguiftied it, wilt" be pnrfued with unremit- I
j ting endeavors, by theprefent principal and du- I
ly attended to by rile trustees.
" The town of Woodbury n fi'uated on an high I
c and elevated spot : It is airy, pleasant, and re
markably healthy, and is but nine miles distant I
from the City of Philadelphia.
PareHtf, guardians and others, who are dif- I
posed to fend their youth to this place, will find I
exceeding good, detent and comfortable board- I
ing and lodging, and upon reasonable terms.
Further applicatiun may be made to the prin- I
cipal, or I
John Sparks
Thomas Hendry I Q
Franklin Davenport c ]
JoJhua L. Howell Trustees. G
John Blackwiod j h
John Lawrence J I
Thomas Hefton J I
ELISHA CLARK,
Secretary of the Board. I
Woedbury, Dec 3 diot I
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK 6? WATCH MAKER, r
• Corner of Front and Market streets, Philadelphia, I
HAS JUST RECEIVED, 1;
BY the different arrivals, a large fupfly of Clock j a
and Watcb makers and Silver Smiths Took, j e
files and materials, I n
OOKEUT4KC OF If
h RowHng Mills, large and final 1 Bench and Hand I
=> Vices,Turnbenche', Plyer«, Sliding Tongs, Bra- |
l > ces and Bitis, Grooving toels, Saws, Scratch brash- I
'• e% Blow pipes, Screw and Draw plates,large and I -
small Hammers, Clock dials, cast bras. Bells, soT- I
ged wsrk sjid pinions, Emery, Rouen stone, Pu- I
mice Hone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, Steel and I
Iron wif«, flieet BraO, main springs and glades 1
d gold, gilt, and steel chains, fcals and keys,&c. &c. I c
Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
sov. 21 eo'Jr- I
Notice is hereby Given,
T'HAT application will be made at the Trea-1 r
/ l'ury of the United States for the renewal I
of tXe following certificates of Six per Cents, .
funded debt —{landing in the name of Robert 1 e
Wilftn of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the I c
service of th« honorable United Company of I i
merchants of England trading to the Eaft-In- I
dies, which were loft from on board the Swal- I
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New-1
York. Dolls. Cts.
No 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dec. I -
17f3, one certificate for 173J 33
No 10,478, Reg. offiee 17th Dec.
1793, one certificate for 1959 50 I -
Ellijion 53* John Perot. I (
nov 13 eod6w I '
~ Whereas the certificate of two I \
» g (bores of the Bank of the United States in the I
name of Samuel Amory, of London, banker, I
No. 3181, issued in lieu of 11593, 11J94. were J
forwarded from London by the British packet I
Countess, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for I
New-York, which packet was captured by the I
French, and the faiH certificate loft ; and for the I
renewal of winch, application is made at said I
Bank, and all perl'ons concerned are desired to I
take notice.
CLEMENT BIDDLE.
Fhikt. Ofl. zi>, 1798. eo6w
Patent Ploughs, I <
TO be (bid for eafh by Joseph Salter at Atfioa '
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry —Jonathan '
Harker, Woodbury —and Jeffe Evans, Luqjber- 1
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require
less team, breiK the ground better, are kept in
n j arder at lels txpence and are fold at a cheaper
rate —the plan is much Amplified and consists of
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and
beam of wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lays and coulters to be put on with lcrews and
et. taken off atpleal'ure
Patent rights for vending with inftra&ions for
making them may be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 111 North
Front-street.
Who has for Sa'e;
Or to Lease for a term of Years,
rt A number of valuable trails of Land, wall
situated fer Mills, Iron «V»rksor Farms, most
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun
tingdon flat* of Pcnnfylvani*. Those who may
incline to view them will please t» apply to
Johs Canaa esq. near Huntingdon.
Charles Ntti/bold.
July 17 2awtf
Horses to Winter.
nc ? T QRSES will be taken in to winter at P»o
---n srecT Hill, at the 11 Milestone, on the
BriUe] road ; they will be weH f«d with clover
and timethy hay, well littered and cleaned, and
j will alfohave a large field to exercise themselves
in when the weather is good.—Enquire »f Mr.
IpOußt BM, merchant, Watet street, or on the
prtirifci.
Na*. 7 wf tf
Imported
j In the last arrivals from Bremen, , H
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT RKAiONABLK pricks AND OR A LIBERAL
'f CREDIT) BY
PRATT & KINTZIKG, r
N0.95. North Water ftrcet.
215 bales & boxes ficklenburghs,
hempen linens and oznabrigs from ifs to
I 3f P er e '^
I 70 do. bleached and brown hessians
: j 4.0 do. brown rolls suitable for cos- p
fee bags tl
20 do. Itrong do. do. for cotton do.
130 chests platillas j 1 do. sealing-wax
3 do. dowlas 3 packages oil-cloth
I 30 do. crcas ala Morlaix 4 do. fail-rwioe
I Tl do. eftopaill<ys I do. wutches
115 do. Biejefield linen 14 pipes Port wine
■j 90 da. patterbarnes 91 cases claret
I 45 do Brittanias 130 do fine long corked
I do. Holland canvaft claret
I 1 do. Ruflia do. 1600 hufht Is fine la't
' j 3 do. Rufiia Iheetings 40 casks of roll brim stone
I 1 do. ravens duck 100 casks of naval stores.
1 do. Rufiia drillens jo logs prime mahogany
" I 1 do. brown liolland 4 hhds. coffee mills.
a do. SiJefia rouans 6 bundles German steel
I bnen 10 chests of slates and
> I 1 do. Caraudoles pencils
, I I do. Fleaiifhlinen? A packageof skates
s I I do. cambricks and A do. woolen caps, &c.
i- I lawns 4 chefls of Nurenberg
c | I do. diaper toy»
e I 11 do. stripes 40 ke-s of yellow ochre
e J 18 do. checks 3 bhds. Glue
I t do. fiamois 3 barrcli of Lentilles
e I 1 do. Arabia (Iripe S chests of prime red 1
I 1 do. bunting for colors crust Holland cheese
,T I I packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
I 1 do. Turkey yarn 400 fides of upper and J
I ft bales empty bags foal leather ]
I chest hair ribband ,?«o boxes window glass
e I 1 boxes tapes, assorted 800 Demijohns <
r > j 4 da. bobbin, assorted 50 boxes glass tumblers |
6 I 1 box threads Sc tapes assorted j
y 1 1 do. fine blue liftados 2 hhds. pumice stone j
t- I j chcfls men'sflippcrs 1 box of mill saws
J- 3 do. bed ticks I c*fk of cutlery
4 carts hog's brittle; A quantity of stone jugs ;
;h I 6 chests writing paper and pickling pots
e- 4 do. quills A few ships anchors, &c.
[it j novemher 12 tu&f-tf
f To be Sold,
,d 'OR EXCHANGED,
d- For property in the Citv. or within Thirty
■ miles of it,
™" A Valuable Plantation,
TN Tufcorora Valley, Mifflin county, containing
I J. ab»ut tliree hundred acres, the whole capable !
I of cultivation. At present there is about 50 acres
I cleared, lo of which is a rich bottom of Meadow
S. J Grouni, enriched by a never failing stream, that
I has fall and water enough for all the purposes of
I a Country Mill. F.or further information apply at
I No. 68, Market flreet.
November 20 taw
FOR SALE,
Fifty Acres of Good Landy
Lying in Gloucester County,
State of New.Jersey,
I r T , WENTY r -FOUR acres of which aie
* 3 'I _l_ Woodland, the reft, Meadow. This
I land lies about half a mile from Timber-Cretk,
ck j and two miles from the riyer Delaware, the
Is, J county road passing through it, and the great
I road only two miles distant. For terms, apply
to, PATRICK DOGHERTY,
011 I Sign of the Rainbow, inShippen,
/*' I between Second and Tbird-jlrects.
J j dec 4 sTtuth&f2w
I- ~ ADVERTISEMENT.
li- 1
B e t Todd Sc Mott,
te. I of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, haying
;d I afltgned over their effe&s, real, personal, and
mixed, to the fmbferibers for the benefit of all
I their Creditors—
Notice is hereby Given,
:a " I ' I 'O all persons who are indebted to the said
' al I JL estate, that they are required to make ijn
ts > I mediate payment of tbeir refpedivc aecounts to
' rt I either of the aflignees, in failure whereof, legal
be I naeafures will be taken for the recovery of such
of I debts as aue not discharged without delay.
I J°hn Waddington T
John Rhodes J. Aflignees.
John Allen. J
wv. 26 tu.th&fatFi
ALL PERSONS,
I T T A.VING demands againil the Estate of
I 11 Henry Sghaffer, deceased, lateofthe
I City of Philadelphia, Malfier and Shopkeeper
J are requested to jurnifh their accounts properly
I authenticated and all perfont indebted to said
'O I Estate are desired to make speedy payment to
he CASPAR W.HAINES,} , ■ . .
er, FREDERICK GAUL, j ad ™n>finatars
ere J Ilth rro. 13 s! aaw 3' v,r
Mailt for South-Carolina &f Georgia,
,) le I T)ACKETS are now provided for carrying the
j ie 1 X Public mails by water between Philadelphia
I jj I and Charleston. They will leave Philadelphia
to lon Friday's. Thspoftby will becontinu-
I ed twice a week until an experiment is made in
I regard to the expedition and reguJarity of the
| I packets. If any person chufes to have their
I letters fait by land only, they will pleaft to
I write the word Land upon the letters : otber
ioß wife they will be sent by that conveyance which
jan w '" start after the letters are left ift the
icr- poR-effice.
the Joseph Haberjham,
lirt Pofl-Mafter Gemerl.
ln Philadelphia, Augujl 13, H9B. {
Notice is hereby given,
ind THAT applitation will be made to tfie trcafury
ght "f the United States for the renewal of the follow
ed '*g certificates of fix per cents, funded debts, Hand
is the name of jtone GabricHt Rigaud, of Geacva,
for were loft from on board the Swallow Paek
nhn £t > Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-Yoik.
irth Bolls.
No. 3195. Reg. office I9thMay "93,1 cert, for loco
I3>lsl. do. 14th do. do. 1 do. for 3500
IVtilings fc? Francis.
oft- FOR SALE.
Rice, in whole and half Tierces.
•• ¥»""}
Carolina and Georgia Indigo,
j AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins.
Apply to
"»• N. (s? J. Frazier,
N«. 95, So. Front Street'
v r " norembcr 13 3UW3W
a v n L 5 FOR SALE, VZRT CHEAP,
Vl r . A Quantity of printed Papar, suitable for
t h c Groceri, TobaceoniAs, &c. Enquire of the
Primer,
I nov 20 4 t
Samuel 'J Miers Fifhcr,
N'o. «7, Dock-Stkeit.
Have received fee the Mo'XisG Star, from
Tenerirfc,
Good Cargo Wine,
In Pipes, Hop (heads and Quarter Casks.
Per the Pallas, from Hamburgh,
German Oznabrigs SkTicklsnburgs.
And by the late arrivals ft om London,
1 Liverpool, Rriltoi, Hull and IHlhiin,
i A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
WOOLEN GOODS,
I PI INCIPALLT ON CONSI6 N W KNT.
Which they are delirous of felling by the
Package, in which are separately made up—
the following articles on low terms:
Rose Blankets, 6 4, 10 10-4
2 \ Sl 3 point blankets
Mottled and green Rugs 6-4 to 3-4
Mixt and drab Forreft cloths, fortcd
Fearnoughts
Blue Plains ,
Blue, mixt and drab plains, sorted prices -L
* Mixt, twill'd, striped ami blue coatings, do si
Blue, mixt and brown kersey duffils, sorted h
colors and prises tl
c Mitl'd drab Broadcloths, sorted prices
'* Blue Broadcloths, do
Low priced Broadcloths, colors neatly sorted
,| Swanfdou n, fttiped and printed Kerfymeres
J Mixed and sorted colored Kerfcymerei
JNeat super and fuperfine cloths, Elastics and
Biverctts
White, yellow and red Flannels, sorted prices
g Green and white Baize
Yarn Hose and Caps
e Coarse and fine Hats, in cases of 6 Hezen each
10 pieces fuperfine wide Black Ruflcls
Joans Spinning and Camblets
d With an Invoice of common and fine drawn
fa NAILS, flatt and lharp points, well assorted
y They have al/o for Sale,
4 Britilh Oznabrigs"}
Ravens Duck > IN BALES.
Ruflia Sheetings J
Saxßn and Bohemia Oowhs—in Chests
s Brown quadruple Silefias and w.hite Platillas, do
Irish Linens, in Boxes j
lrifh Dowlas, white and brown
Irish Sheetings, do
~ Irish Sacking
' Shot, nfiorted. Red and White Lead and Span- (
c> ifh Brown
T Crawley Millington Steel
Queens, ware, in Crates
Glass ware, in Crates and hogsheads
Newcastle Grindstones. Boxes tin plates t
y A few pipes London market Teneriffe Wise •
India Romall Hdkfs.
Long Cloths > IN BALES.
1 Humhums J 1
ig Woraans shoes, iu barrels
le Spermaceti Candles, in boxes.
e» 11 mo 17 3aw6w
Z. FOR SALE,
°f To he EXCHANGED for property within thirty
at miles of the city,orto,let on ground-rent lorever
Several valuable building Lots, ,
~ In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Biddle. ne. 147, Chefhut
ftreet.
nov 22 1
Ironmongery, Cutlery, &c.
'. e THE SUBSCRIBERS
I*® TNTENDING to decline their ptefent Business,
J'' JL offer for sale, at reduced prioes. a handsome
affortnu-nt ol IroEmongery, Cutlery, &c. in lots
at la suit the purchasers.
y John Green ts* Co.
No. 16, Nerth Second street.
KJ- Ironmongers
Will find the ab»v« Goods not nnworty their
attention.
n0v.23 1?
Dobbin & Roberts,
n B TATLORS,
7) ESPECTFULLV inform theirCuftomers, and
" Iv tihe Public in gentral, that they have remo
ved from No. 114, Chefuut Street, to
No. 30, South Fourth Street;
id Where orders in their line will be thankiully re
n- ceived and diligently attended to.
to november 15 mw&f,iw
ch jFrench Language.
G. DUFIEF,
No. 63, South Second Streit,
WILL OPEN
His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL,
ot - On Wednesday, the 14th loft.
I N. B.— Private i'uition attended to as usual
,c and Translations from either Language into the
°^ er » performed with accuracy, secrecy, and
r ;T difpacch.
ll d nov. ro cwtf
o —————
rj" John J. Parry,
CLOCK isf WATCHMAKER,
a H/!S again opened at his t'.fual Stand, No. 38,
e South Second Jlreet —<wbere he has for Sale,
A VARIETY or
J* Excellent Gold & Silver Watches,
Hj. AND A FEW
in Eight Day Cclocks,
be Which mill he •warranted to give fatisfaSion.
eir An assortment of
, r _ Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
C j l All kinds of Clock and Watch work done with
particular attention as heretofore.
£3" An Apprentice wanted.
November 11 m.'M&f.J^ ■
LARENCE SECKEL,
No. 155, Market-Street.
First quality London Particular ? u'l\T<;
iry Madeira, Port, Sherry and Lilbon ) '
w- Cogniic Brandy, ift to 4th proof,
ad- Sprits.
va, By the Pipe, Hhd, Quarter-calk or Gallo*.
ek- dee 3 mw&fiw
,11,. TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
x;o T~\ ESERTED last night, a fccond time, from
joo I J the Marine Camp, David I.upcr, a fife r . —
He had when he went away, a plain bluejacket and
vest.light blueoveralls, a round hat,which hpdbeen
bound with yelUw, an A which h« had ripped off
in his fit ft desertion, and a pair of new (hoes, he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sandy hair
fallow complexion and a nitch in his upper hp
His hack is filll Tore from a flogging he got a few
days ago He may bo difcovcled by his fifeiag,
as he plays extremely well.
' W. W. BUtIROWS Major Com. of the
October 17. Marine Corps.
The time of an ASive
BLACK BOY,
"ITTHO ii about sixteen years old, and ha. five
VV years to lrrvc, to be difpol'ed of. He is
f nr well acquainted with the buGntrfi of a iarm, and
t }, e handy at cooking or waiting in the hsufe» En
| quire at the office of thi. Gazette.
t | acr. i 6 eojw
Imported,
In the Ships Active and Liberty,
from H iMBURGH.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Hessian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, &c.
For Sale by
GEORGE PENNOCX.
no. lOJ Market-street .
niv J"* §
notice.
ALL Persons indebted to the Estate of Wil
liam Beauchamp, lately deeeafed, are de
sired to make immediate piymentand those who
1 have any claim* agaifift said Estate to produce
their accounts properly attested to
Sam/. Price, executor.
, uov 20 dim
[ BEEF, '
OF THE FIRST QDALITT,
1 And fit for Ipdia voyages.— For Sale By
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
s No. 168 , High Street,
nov. dtf
1 FOR GALE,
By the Subscriber,
1 Belfaft Canvass, No. 1, toy,
' On moderate terms igr Cash or a fliort credit,
'James Lyle,
South Seventh flreet, near Cbej'nut.
nov 16 $
Forty Dollars Reward.
o DESERTSD,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp IVeJI Schuyliill, viz.
" - "October 193"
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, s
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
complexion,bora in H»Hand,no Trade,
broken English a»d very taUnt'*;:, has a dimple
iu his chin.
November 6. John Murphy, years of
age, 5 reet 7 inches in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dub'ti, by trade a Hozier.
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, j feet 6 inches
high, grey eyes, l'andy hair, frefh complexion,
born in New-England, itate of Connecticut, a
repeated deserter, by trade a Blacksmith.
November 7. William Collins, 3oyeais of
age, 5 feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frelh com
plexion, grry eyes, born in Ireland, county of
; Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked Sw
some time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
s, to hear himfelf Sing.
All the above deserters are very much addift
t- ed to liquor, and will take other people'* pro
perty if in their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, hid on, when they went away,
~~ their regimental olothing. Whosoever appre
hends said deserters, (hall receive forty dollans
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reafon
fc, able expences, by applying to me as above,
ue EDWARD MILLER, captain
'ts id regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov 10 $
*• BAILZSfr
A QUANTITY to bp difpo'ed of, if applied sos
immediately, on hoard the Ship Louita, lying
Mr. HUMPHREY'S Snip Yard,
novemberio, J
ALL PERSONS having any legal demands a
gainfc the estate of William Pa kirn,
late ol the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keej er, are .
ad requested to lurnith their accounts properly au
o- theiticated, and all persons indebted to said ef.ate
are r?qaefted to make payment to thp fabler,ber in
Philaaelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Admit*
e ~ OSober 31ft, 179&.
w
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA,TO WIT:
BE IT REMEMBERED,
r , TH'AT on the twelfth day
\ )of August, in the twenty-third year ef
t he Independence of the United States of
America, Benjamin Smith Barton, ef the said dif
tri(st, hath deposited in this ofhee the title of a
-■> booh the right whereof he claims as author in the
worU!> follow ihg to wit : ,
ul "New Viewaofthe Origin of the Tribes and
he " Nations of America—By iienjimiii Smith Bar
ed " ton, M. D.Correspondent Member of theSocie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
" the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
it. BoHob, CorreipoMUdg Member of the MafTa
" chufetts Fkftorical Society, r.r>(t ProlefTor of
, " Materia Medica, Natural History and Bouny
g "in the Univerilty of Pennsylvania."
' In coi.lorniity (0 the ail of the Congress of the
United States, intitled "An lor the encourage- ,
ment of learning by securing the copies of maps,
' charts, and books, to t}ie authors and proprietor,
of such copiis during the times therein mentioniid.'s
SAMUEL CALDWELL, C.erk, DitL of Penn*
m% November a, 1798.
ys . A Young Man,
itb VYTIIO writes a good hand, under/lands.
VV accounts andean be well recommended*
wants a Situation as Clerk or Afiiilant in a
Wholesale Store, or Couuting-hoofe. Appli«
cation to be made at this Office.
nov 14 $
s A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, »f Philadelphia, who has
for a lew years past teen in the fouihern States,.
1. has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex
change On Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
a number of purfom as their money, deceiving
-1" them by an exliibitioo«of letter* and papers witb the
names affixed of divers public and repu
•nd table (nerchaats highly- recemiuwdatory of laid
:en Shaeffer ;to one of tbcfe papers I find my name
off fiibfcribed, but Ido not ki.ow the man ; these are
'is villainous forgtries! I"o prevent farther i«pofition,
air 1 have tc requclt.the printers of Newspapers in the
ip. United State* to publilh this f»r the beueht of their
ew ftiiow-citiaens. SAMUEL iVIEREDi I bl,
ig, Brrcafurcr8 r rcafurcr of tb: United-Status
e TrenUn t Ncw-Jerfty,'\ '
:he QttMcr 44, 1798. j
To be Lef,
AND POSSESSION GIVEN
LTJ ON THE I4TH APRIL NIXT,
THE CITY TAVERN,
Now in the pofftfiion of Samuel Richartkt.
Apply,at titw Office,
noviiaber 13 9