(gazette of t\)i &niteto States AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 179 B.J
FOR LONDON,
The copper bottomed ship
Captain Loclcyer.
confiderabje part of her
1 cargo is already engaged ; —to
fail with-all convenient speed—I—For 1 —For terms ap
ply to ROSS Ctf SIMSGfo,
No. 121, South Front Jlreet.
jtntc *3 m
For Sale by the Subscribers,
The following GOODS, just. arrived in the ship
Pigou, «apt. Clay, from Canton,
Behca, "J
Hyson Skin, > TEA
Voting Hyson, j
Sugar in botes and bagsl
Aad a Quantity of CafTia
'ALSO, TO BE SOLD,
faid ship PIGOU,
well known, fad failing Ship,
live oak and cedar frame, ami cop- '
She mcafurcs 76 feet keel,
*8 feet l 6 inches beafe, 12 feet hold, *anu 6 feet!
bet wean decks.
Mordecai Lewis,
JeJJc Iff Robert Wain,
JVllu am Sanfstn.
June 11,
' ~ FOR S^LEy
yvaa THE SHIP
RICHMOND,
JUoT arrived from the East-
Indies and lytas ft Latimer's
}V&BSSmSbi* Wharf.
Live Oak ar.d Cedar and in every refpeft as
excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to
gether, copper bolted and ftie'athed. She is 80
feet keel 47< feet beam, 12 feet liold, 6 4 det be
tween dVcks and 'will carry 4*400 barteis of
Flour.——For te'rms, apply to
MorJecai LevJis.
may". 3©
LA'WDI N G,
•At Wafhvut Street Wharf, from On board the
brig Atniable Matilda, WiMiata Brown,
Master, fro/n Bourdeaixj
Clatetin hoglheads antl in cases of
SUPERIOR QUAXI*Y,
Brandy -is Pipes,
FOR S A LI,
Thomas & John Ketland,
M*. Said Brig for sale,
two pair four pour CCAN
NON, and one pair 1 alb. C AR-
R onades.
may 19 §
FOR LIVERPOOL,
_ THE SHIP
MfAj L / B E R T r,
Isaac Vredenbercer, Master,
*3bßtA good new vcfTel, fail 3 well —
will fail about the rent ho f
next month, a confider«ble part of her Cargo being
engaged*—For freight or p^flageapply to
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
ft. B. The Libert yis intended to return oncof
fiTll fall v'effehto this pOft.
may 29
JUST ARRIVED,
fn the brrgGayofo,capt Bingham,fromSt.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
'of an exccellent quality
K fety gtoce Porter 6ottUs, new
A nd twenty casks
A V°> FOR
Enquire of
Jehu HoUingf'Worth & Co.
No. 22, Little Water itraet, South.
arftril 16. .
ADVERTISEMENT.
DESERTED from 1 detachment under the
command of captain Edward Miller, fla
tionfd at Spring Gardens.
June id, 17 98 —John M'KitTock, iborn in
Ireland, connty of Antrim ; 5 feet 9 inches in
height, dark hair, <yes and complexion, pock
marked, aged a 8 years, fpeafcs broad, mlifted
byenfiga R«W, >t Ne<r Bruiifwick, had on his
full regimentals, stole a blanket when lie went
away, he is a drunlurd and very illuming.
June bth—James Crawlordj born iu Cheflcr,
State of MaflachuT&ts, brown hair, grey eyes,
faii> u. m'plexioti, fine fe<t 1: inches in height,
sgtti 24 years, by trade a blacksmith, had ort
hia full regimental and left his post when on
"sentry. ilfo,
Eliikim Stow, a priforter, born in Symibury,
State of Connedlicut, aged 36 years, black hair
-dark eyes and conlj>lex4on, a repeated defertcr,
■very alTuming, writes a tolerable hand and is ve-
Ty talkative. Had en regimental ftiirt aad over
jllß,when he deserted the guard.
Whbevtr will apprehend the above del'erters
atid relum them to Spring-Gardens in Philadel
phia, or to arty officer belbnging to the United
&atei or confine them in any goal and give no
tice-so that they may be obtained (hall ha»e ten
dollars reward for either of them, or thirty for
the threc-anl jll reasonable charges paid.
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Injiintrj.
The different printers id the union are
Tequefttd to insert the above,
jone'n §
CANNON,
Musket and Pistol Cartridge Papers,
A LARCt ASSORTMENT
Is now re&dy for sale by William Young,
Bookft'ler, No. 52, Second Street, the
corner of Chefuut jlreet.
OF WHOM MAV BE HAD
Baron Steuben's Regulations for the Order and Difci
ptine of the 'Troops of tie United Stat's.— To ivbicb is
added, an aft of Congress concerning the Militia, price
50 t'ertts ; do. largeprints 67 cent!.
W. Young,
Has for fale\ on the lorvejl terms t for cajb or negociable
Notes{
Large -Writing, printing & drafting paper,
ALSO,
Foolscap j Pojl, Folio and 4 to. Pojlof varrour fzes,
vtU a*d plain ; ink po-wdor Jealing ivax, wafers, pcckct,
• kfandsy black lead pencils, quills, rulers, cofe< if ma
thmatxciil tnfhvments, gunter fcaUs, parchment anl aft
Jk 'in memorandum boois, pen j/i 'ves, india rubber ard ink
may 12
By John Fenno, N o ' lip Chefnut Street
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 15,179s
Pefinfylvania Hospital,
6 mo. ix, 1798.
THE CONTRIBUTORS are hereby notified to
at the said Hospital, on the 7th day, be
ing the 23d day of this month, at 4 o'clock in the
afternoon, to reconsider the &xpediency of con
dru&ing a Dome to the centre house of the new
buildings; also, to determine on an alteration to
be made: in the sth rule, so far as the fame refpeds
the admiflion of p»or patients.
By Order of a Board of Managers.
SAMUEL COAVB3, Clerk.
A Houi'e and Lot in Burlington
FOR SALE.
A LARGE commodious two story biick J-loufe,
and la'ge well improved Gardens; wi:h a Jarge
Clover Lot. a Aable, a Carriage House, and Spring
House, See. in the city of Burlington, Ncw-Jerfey.
This property allow d to be the moll Wealthy and
beauttfulof any in liuriingion, having afrontof 360
upon the river, and extending 208 feet back ; oound
ed on one fide by Broad-fkreet, and on the back by a
wide alley.
The house is in form of a square, fronting 54 feet
upon Broad llrect, and 58 upon the river—with a
pumpot water at the back door, bcfides two fine
springs rising out ®f the beau'iful bank between the
garden and the river.
For particulars, apply at No. 5, South Fourth
ftrcet, to
GEO. WALKER.
Who has also For Salt,
Lots in Waflnngton City.
juit 13
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Haa received, per the Richmond from Calcutta
A Quantity of Sugar.
Weft India Muicovado quality, which h® offers for
sale very low for cafli or at 60 day's.
HE HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of British Dry Goods,
which he will dispose of on the nloit reasonable
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, 2cc. &c.
June 5 dtf
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers ahd Carradarries,
of the newest and most approvad pattern*, entitled
to the drawback, jtrft received,
AN9 FOR SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
m?y 18.
TO LET], "
The House l>Jo. 83,
Chefnut, a few doors below Third street.
It is in goad repair, and a capital Stand for any
kind of business. Apply as above.
June 5- - . . : . §
Boufdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhds.
White wine in half hhds.
Claret "N
Frontinac ( . c f
Sautarue C
Lundi j
Red Skins
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
60,0c0 Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of white Havanna Sugar—and
50 Hogfcieads of Tobacco
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
June 2 dtf
This Day is Published,
ANDFORSALEBYJ. FENNO, I ip,CHSSNUT-ST R EST
AN ADDRESS
To ihe People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress a»d prefenp state of
French aggression, with a (ketch of the infamous
atterripts to degrade the Government of the United
States, and fomfc reflections 011 the late proceedings
in Congress ; written the last of April in the pre
sent year, by a Meriiber of the House of R.cprefen
tatives. § june II
Choice St. Croix Sugars,
EOR SALE BY
James Yard.
1 ALSO,
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira Wine,
fit for immediate u'fe, and at a reduced price.
June 4 diot
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FROM BOURDEAUX,
CONSISTING OF
Claret in hhds.and Cases
Oyl, Capers, Olives, Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SALE BY ,
Thomas Fitz/imons•
may 26. $4 <Jy
For Sale,at the Stores o( the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails afior'ted
ao bales ©f fail canvaf#, from No. I to&
53 casks yellow ochre
»5 tierces bottled porfer, 6to 14 doz each
London particular ) MaJ<;ira Wincs
India market )
TenenfFedo. in hogiheaitaand pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineta &c.
afiorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and 10 c jils of cordage
Writing states, ink Hands aad prcik-s
20 purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine
160 bundles Iheathirig paper
Nicllitt is" Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf •
OX BEEF.
100 Barrels "> of B.ef of boft quality, put
jo half Barrels > up with carefor long voyages.
100 Barrels of Connecticut Pork,
co Barrels of Connecticut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half cafk3 of Sherry
30 Casks of Lisbon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
•800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
joo Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of heft Durham Milliard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger's Wharf.
mjy 4 eodtf
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. |
1
, Wednesday, May 13.
(Concluded from our lafl.)
Mr. Sitg it eaves said, if he nnderftood
the realon alfigned in favour of this motion
(and it was the only reason which he had
heard) it was, that it would be improper to
a£l in the way proposed, whilst our million
in France (hell be pendingand undetermined.
He tinderftobd gentlemen to insinuate a belief
that whilst this million remained undetermin
ed, it would be an outrage on the laws and
usages of nations, to adopt the resolutions
which he had proposed to the house.
On this subjeCt, Mr. S. believed, there
could be no fort of question. It is a principle
as well fettled as any In the law of nations,
that when a nation has received aggreflions
from another nation, it is competent for the
injured country, to pursue its remedy by re
prisal before a declaration of war takes place,
and these reprisals (hall be perfectly warranta
ble, whilst they are commensurate only with
the injuries received, and are not under such
circumstances juftifiable cause of war. It is
even clear that these reprisals maybe made
during the pendency ot a negociation, and can
not, according to the law of nations, be a juf
tifiable ground for the rupture of any such
negociation.
He belifcved, therefore, that upon this sub
ject, there could be no doybt as to the right
of adopting these refolntiGns. For let it be
remembered, said he, they are not calculated
to authorize general letters of marque or repri
sal, which would induce iridifcrimi'nate at
tack on all vefiels belonging to the French
Repnblic, wherever found. The right of
capture is proposed to be litniteil to cruizers
of the French Republic; who liwy be found
on our coast, or in cases where they may have j
afhially attacked veftelsof the United States I
for the purpose of search or feizure —menfures 1
of ftrifl defence which are ellbntial to the
prcfent situation of the country, and by no i
means 6f%n offenfive nature ; it is not a course
of general reprisal, but of fptcial reprifn! an- i
thorized by the law of nations, which does |
not amount to a cause of war, 110'r of the rup- !
tureof any ncggciatioii now pending. He 1
felt confident, therefore, that on the ground j
of drift right, no objection could be made to
this nreafure, and he did not expetl to have
met with any difficulties of this kind. 011 1
the question of expediency, gentlemen may
differ; but he did not fulpett they could have
differed on the question ot right. As to the
question of expediency, he would a(k his
friend tram Kentucky, what he had seen in
the experience of the past, or in the present
situation of this country and France, to in
duce him for a moment to wifli a poftpone
inent of the question ? Is there any thing,
said he, in all our experience with the French
Republic, since the commencement of our
dispute, which can lead its to hope that we
(hall gain any thing by forbearance, by fub
million, and acquiescence in jrtl-the injuries
we arc daily receiving from her ? Certainly
not. We have been practicing this system of
forbearance from the earliest period of her
aggreflions until the present. Nothing else
has been heard, and what has it produved but
accumulated injury ? Has this l'pirit of for
bearance done any good ? Has it produced
the repeal of a finglq decree, or a relaxationin
its execution f On the contrary, so far as
appearances will warrant an opinion, we have
some reason to believe, that a spirit which
(hould (hew an intention to refill repeated in
sult and injury, is the only kind of spirit which
could produce any good effett in France.
He would not express an opinion on the
authenticity of the late accounts from Europe,
which represent our Envoys to have been re
ceived, and to,have had several conferences
on the fubjett of their million with the Minil
ter for Foreign Affairs ; but if they are enti
tled to any belief, they provedemonftrably to
his mind, that the French nation is not wil
lirig to drive this country to extremities ; but
that they desire by any means to protract our
present state ot fufpence, and to avert that
decision which itul necelTarily result from an
absolute rupture of the negociation. On ac
count of the spirit of forbearance which has
been (hewn by this country, the French have
been enconraged to make the most unjnlt and
extravagant demands of our Commimoners,
but they have refilled these demands with be
coming spirit. They have said, it thtffe de
mands were persisted in, they would demand
purports and return home. What has been
the consequence f Iflßie reports now in
circulation are true, they prove that the
French have not been willing to grant them
palfports, but, rather than drive us into ex
tremities, to relax from their demands, and
if our million exists at all, it mult ba on a dif
ferent bafts from that on which it heretofore
relied. It will be proper, therefore, to give
up that spirit of forbearance which has hither
to characterized our and psofe
cute by all the ways permitted by the laws ot
Nations, measures of defence both by sea and
land.
If had been said, that the proposed delay
could do no injury. He believed it might j
and he was fureit could do no good. Thede
lay of a few days would not be likely topro
| duce any more favourable accounts from
France, nor to afford evidence of that'ftate of
things which would enable us to act with de
cision ; fuc'n as a declaration of war, or the
departure of our Envoys from France.
It was said, the public armed force would
not be ready to put to sea before the time to
which this question is proposed to be postpo
ned; but these relolutions relate to private
aimed veflels, as well as public veflels. And
if it be admitted that the public armed ships,
may, in the course of two or three weeks, be
equipped for sea, it is not to be expeiled, ac
cording .to the ulual difctiflion given to impor
tant bills, that if the resolutions were now
referred, the bill would be palled before the
ill (fruitions are wanted ; and if the question
(hould be postponed as proposed, the veflels
would have to wait for instructions two or
three weeks after they arc ready to fail. One
of these veflels is indeed now waiting only for
inltniCtions. And he alked what instructions
the President could give under our present
circinnltances, until farther authority was
veiled id him by Congress ? If he employed
themas convoys, our coast. would be left un
protected. And if they remained on the coalls,
w hat could they do f They cannot attack a
French cruizer, or drive a picaroon away.
They could only refill attacks made on the
velTels of the United States. A French crui
zer might even fail in company with our arm
ed veflels, and if an American merchant Ihip
should heave in fight, might leek his oppor
tunity to capture her, when beyond the imme
diate protection of our armed and they
could not have the power to re-take the prize
thus taken, aim oil within their view. They
could afford no protection to any veflel> ex
cept (he was attacked in their presence. But
if our armed vefTels received the inftru£tiohs
which he proposed to give them, the French
cruizcrs would be afraid of being I'efcn by
them, and two or three ships like the Ganges,
would scour the coast of nine tenths of the
Privateers which now infett it. But if they
thuft go out without these inilni&ions, all that
the picaroons arid cruizers would have to do,
would be to take care not to attack ahy ves
sel in their view. He believed tkis was not a
(fate of things to which this country ought to
submit, or to wl>ich (lie would ftibmit ; for.
whatever may be the reluctance (hewn in this
house to go into this measure, there is no fitch
reluctance in the great mass of the American
people. He was persuaded they impatiently
expect Government to defend the honour
and protect the property of the country. Their
wishes a:id determinations far outstrip ail that
Congress proyofe to do. He believed a divi
fio'n such as is in this house, could not be
found in any part of the Union- He did not
believe that a meeting of the fame number of
persons could be called together in any part
of the United States, from New Hampfliire to
Georgia, where such a diviliyn as is found in
this house could take place. He believed the
addrelTcs which had been received from all
parts of the Union inconteftibly prove this
faifl. The people are tired of the injuries
which have been heaped upon us, and are
impatient to prevent a repetition of them, and
so far as it can be done confidently with the
Law of Nations, it has become a solemn duty
to do it.
It ought to be the pride of America, that
fhehas confined all her meaftires of defence to
the established rules of the Law of Nations,
and he wiflied to continue to govern our con
duct bv the fame rule, and therefore infleud
ot making a Declaration of War, about which
gentlemen make such a rout, or of authori
sing General Rcprifals agaihft France, which
would have been imprudent Wniltt our Com
miflioners are in Paris, fpecific reprisals au
thorised by the Law of Nations, are only pro
-1 posed to be pursued ; a regulation which he
believed was loudly called for by the fituati
j on of the country, but which was very differ
: ent from General Reprisals, or a Dv-claration
of War. For himfelf, however, he had no
j hesitation to fay, that he regretted that there
i were any circumrtances in our situation which
j obliged its to confine ourmeafures to the fpe
. cific reprisals proposed, if it were known ei
ther that our Envoys had left the territory ot
France,or were retained in that country against
their will, or if it could in anyway be afcer
i tained that the mifiton was at an end ; he gave
; it as tys opinion, that the honour, dignity and
; interest of this country, require that we
j lhould make, war upon the French Republic,
i and he believed it wouk| be the duty of Con
! grefs to declare it.
Mr. S. concluded by obfervingthat all the
obje6t».*ns which had been made, and which
he had encountered, did not ftriflly apply to
the Qjaeftion before the House ; which was
on the reference of these Resolutions toa com
mittee and not on their adoption—As he had
moved the resolutions it could not be doubted
that for himfelf he was ready to pass upon
them immediately—But as he did not defirc
to hasten the adoption of any important mea
sure, ivithoutprapcrand n:*.ure deliberation ; j
lie had confined himfelf to bringing the sub- ;
jeel before the house, and to moving that the ;
refolii ftiotild go to the Committee on the
protection of commerce and the defence of the
country, to upon by them, by bill
or otjierwife.
Ms. Ven a b obfqrved, that it was a little
extraordinary that the mjiver of these resolu
tions fliould insist upon their being conforma
ble to the Laws of Nations, and that lie (liquid
at the fame time allow that the President of
the United States cannot give these inltruc
tions, except authorised by law to do so,
though it must be alloyved he a right to
give whatever inlirudhons are authoriled by
ihe Lawsot Nations. Mr. V. recollected that
when the subjeCt of ptoviding these veflels
was un'der debate, it was objected against
them, that their ufcfulnefs would be very
limited, except we got into war; but that
gentleman and other*, at that time, said they
could do many things, and be of great service,
though he now confclfes they can be of no
use, without the which lie propo
ses to be given to them. But the fame law
which would authorize these veflels to act in
the way proposed, would involve the country
in war, for it goes to authorise our public and
private armed veflels toattack any armed ves
sel which (hal! attempt to search any of our
merchant veflels, though they are authorised
to do so by the Laws of Nations, so that such
a power is neither more nor less than war.
And Mr. V. alked if the power proposed to
be given to public and private armed veflels
to retake any of our veflels which have been
captured, be conformable to the Lawsot Na
tions ? It is not, but directly contrary. And
the power to take aud deflroy all armed French
cruizers which may be found on the coall,
though veflels of all Nations have a right not
only to come upon our coast, but into our
ports and harbours, is certainly an aCt of war.
Gentlemen have pretended, from time to
time, to fay, they were not ready to make
war, but the gentleman la(t up declares he is
ready. If we are 'o have war, he wiflied
members might no longer amuse themselves
with the hopes of peace. He wished the peo
ple of the United States to be undeceived in
this re(pe£t. Every flep which had been ,
proposed for some time part, had progrefled
towards this event ; and this measure seems
to put it out of all doubt. He wished, there
fore, it might be considered as a war mea
sure.
The gentleman last tip had spoken very de
cidedly ns to the sentiments of the people of
the United States. He might hare, Mr. V.
said, better information on this subjeCt than
he had, but he believed the people were as
much divided as the members of this house,
on the subjeCt of war.
If gentlemen areNletcrmincd to go to war
at all events, he wiflied it to be so understood,
that Congress might go info me'afc.res calcu
lated to meet such a (fate. Because we have
a single Ihip-ready to f-ij, the gentleman
seems to think we .ire ready to no to war. As
if a veil'cl or two would able cover our
\_VCLUM£ XIJI.
whole coal?, and to cut up all the armed force
which might come againlt us. If every mem
ber in the house co.uld be got to vote for these
resolutions, it would, in his opinion, be very
improper to pass them at pre feat, as the do
ing so would lay the whole, of our commerce
prortrate. Our coasting trade is as yet un
touched, yet gentlemen are willing to cxpofe
the whole, though they have only one (hip
ready to proteC? it. He hoped the propoled
postponement would take place.
Mr. R. W i lliams said, it was on all hands
acknowledged, when the fubjejet of the naval
armament was under consideration, that the
President had power to empjoy them in any
manner authorized by thelaws of nations. So
that it the directions proposed by the gentle
man from Pennsylvania for the commanders
of our veflels be within the law of nations,
the President has power to give them, without
any law being palled for the purpose. Hut he
conceived these resolutions to go much far
ther than is warranted by the laws of nations j
he tonlidered them as nothing (bort of a de
claration of war.
The gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr.
Harper) has told the committee that the fitu
,ation of this country is by no means doubt
ful, and told them what he is wUling.to do.
But if gentlemen are ready to declare war,
why do they propose measures which they fay
only go half way. If a proportion for war /
was made in a direct manner, every member
could then underUaod it.. But he was in
clined to doubt the correctness.of the opinion
cf the gentleman from S. Carolina as to the
state of ;li£ country, as he had told the houlc
the fame thing lall spring, when he was as
prepared, as he seems now tp be, to plunge the
country in war. He was himfelf then, as he
continued to be, oppofecj to any mea lures
which fliould produce war, until war was un
avoidable ; and he believed few per'ons
would be found to Jay that the country had
not been in a much happier situation (for pro
duce never fold higher than it had done for
the last year) than if we had been in war.
Our revenue having increased, and things in
general gone vi eil.
But it was said, that our commiflioners were
evidently of opinion that nothing could be
done V>y way of negociation. He himfelf
thought the dilpatches would convey no such
idea. On the 31ft of January, our commifli
oners presented a memorial to the French go
vernment, and proposed to wait a reasonable
time for ananfwer, which, if they did not re
ceive, they proposed to apply for paeons to
come away ; and as by late Recounts, we find
they still remain at Paris, it is rational to fup
pol'e, they have some hope of the negociati
ons having a favorable iflue. For it could
not be supposed they would be so regardlefo
to the interest of the country, as to remain
longer there than they entertained hopes of
being of service.
But it was frequently after ted, that France
has made made enormous and'difgraceful de
mands upon this country. Whatever the
demands were which certain persons made
upon our commiflioners, we know they were
not made in an authorized manner, nor do we
know that the government was at all acquaint
ed with the tranfadtion. We know that they
were made by unofficial charatfers, and the
lad we heard from our conrmiffioners was,that
they would not listen to them any more. It
appeared to him, that at this time, as we do
not know the situation of the negociation, it
would be extremely impolitic to enter into a
inealure l»ke the present. He wilhed 4've de
cilion upon this resolution to be postponed,
until we heard something more from France.
; He believed with the gentleman from Penn
j fylvania that there was no great division in
i the country on the queition of a peace or war ;
« but he differed from him wholly as to the de
sires of the people on this fubjeCt. He be
lieved they very generally deiire peace, and
not mar. And he believed this was clear
fiom the addre.Tes to which the gentleman
referred ; tor though they approve of the
Conduct oi' the Frefident, what is it for f For
endeavouring to preserve peace with the
French republic, And tliey gen,-rally contain
exprclfions deprecating the horrors of war.
Belides, if these resolutions were proper
now, why were they not Itfaiiglit f«rw.ti.« im
mediately after the late, dilpatches tterfc re
ceived ? Why were they driven till this time ;
and when reports are in circulation that our
envoys are in the way of accomplilliing their
Object, they are brought forward ? It leemed
a3 i! gentlemen were apprshenfive that some
thing thou Id be agreed upon, and they were
determined to fruitrate any iettle-.uent which
might be or. foot.
The matter ot right to do what was propo
led could not be disputed. He believe ! we
had not only been fufficiently injured by
France, but by another nation, to warrant a
ny meufure which policy might diflate. The
queition of expediency was the thing to be
conlidered ; and as he could not yet give u|*
the hope of an accommodation, he was deci
dedly in favour of the postponement.
Mr. \fy\ concluded, by requeftij>£ gentle
men to consider whether, if by a Measure of
this kind the million now in France, which
would otherwise have been {iiccefsful, and
prefervad the country in peace, should be
broken off, and produce a war, how they
could reconcile their conduct to their confti
tnents,' If he were to vote for such a mea
sure, he could not do it. Were he convinc
ed no liope remained of the negotiations fiic
ceeding, and that the French were determin
ed on war, a nieaiurd of this kind, ormuclt
llronger, would be gone into without any di
vilion. When no hope of preserving .peace
remained, there would be but one voice in
that house ; but so long as that hope remain
ed, it might be expected that thole who are
anxious to preserve that Itate of things for
their country, would oppose every meafurj,
whose object and tendency is war.
Mr. Gallatin observed, the queition
was not now whether it Would be proper toa
dopt these resolutions, or not, but whether,
under our present circumltanccs,'they contain
principles which form at present a proper fu'.>-
jeil matter of dilcu'.lion. The gentleman
who moved the postponement, Itated, -fiat so
long as Our negotiation in France was not con
cluded, the difcuflion wits improper. His
colleague (Mr. Sitgreaves) on the other hand,
had infilled upon the right we had to pals
these resolutions} that they are continent
with the law of nations to i:e atfouted in a
ot peace, and would not therefore, pro
duce a rupture in negociation.
The firlt pofitioa as to our right, Mr. G.
said, lie should not deny ; but when his cot-,
league fays, rffol.itions like these are coiililt
ent with a Itate ot* and not tanfanmuat• to « ir, that they are special letters of marque
a:>d reprisal, authorized by tlie laws of nati
nnS, his ideas are unfoended. The resoluti—
ons upon the table have 110'hing to do with
letters of marque. It is true, they are not a
declaration of war ; but they go'to the mak
ing of partial war. Was it ever heard that j
Ict ers of marque were given to public vef-
Tels ? They arc given to private vessels alone:
fpecific letters of marque are sometimes given
in time of peace to an individual, in order to
indemnify him for a fpecific injury. But ge
neral letters of marque and reprifalliave not ■
for a century been granted except in a (late of
declared or aflual war. But these resolutions I
toe neither general nor fpecific letters of '
marque. They are inflruflions to our pub
lic veflelsto make war. They do not fay to
the commanders of our vessels, " you shall
make war in all cases," but they authorize
Certain acts ot war. His idea of these resolu
tions, was, therefore, that they are inftrudlions
to make a partial war ; and when one nation
makes partial war upon another, nobody
could doubt hut it was war.
Mr. G. said, he would not speak of these
resolutions as leading to war; for though
they are not a Declaration of War, they are
tantamount to it. It might be proper for us
to make a kind of partial war, in preference
to a gene al war, in order to throw the blame
bf declaring war upon our Enemy. He did
not object to the resolutions, therefore, be
cause they make a partial, instead of a gene
ral war; but because they are inconsistent at
present with the (late of peace in which it is
infilled we (fill continue, and with the negoci
ations which are not yet finally terminated.
What reasons, said 'vlr. G. are given for
entering into th?fe refolations at this time!
Either that France is m iking war against us,
or that no hopes remain of our negociation
terminating favourably.
France is certainly doing, and had long done
aits, which would authorize us in making
war upon her. The gentleman from S. Ca
rolina (ays (he takes our vessels under every
poflible circumstance, and so on. Mr. G.
said he did not mean to dispute any thing
which he had said in this refpefl. He was
willing to grant, besaufe it was not material
in the present discussion, thit France has tak
en all our vessels wherever she could find
them. Hut he would a(k, whether, after the
di. patches of our Commissioners, the house
did not determine to take a certain (land, and
to adopt certain mtafures i What were they f
They were to make defenlive preparations by
land; to finilh and equip forfea our three fri
gates ; to provide twelve vessels and a num
ber of gallies for the protection of our com
merce and coast, to be employed according
to the discretion of the President. It was
then said, he might use them in conformity
to the fituatlon of our country. He did not
mean to dispute that position. He would al
so take it for granted, that the Prelident had
a right to emplsy these vessels for the pro
tection of our trade on the coast, arid as con
voys. He was himfelf opposed to their being
used as convoys in time of peace. His opi
nion was, that armed vefl'els could be of little
uses as convoys to ourvelfels intime of peace;
but to employ these vefTels effectually, would
be tofcoUrthe coast of the p.-ivateersand pic
caroehs which infill it. He concurred in opi
nion with gentlemen that this was the only ef
fectual way in which our vessels could be
employed ; but tlie house then conceived
that thus to employ them would be to make
war, and therefore they were left to be em
ployed by the Pretident according to the
of the country at the time. '
Mr. G. wifßedto know what change had
taken place in the (itvt.ition of the country
(ince the period at which the dispatches were
coi.imu licated ? He kniew of none. Why,
then, are these resolutions now broughrbe
fore the house. If these inftruflions are pro
per o be given now, they were equally pro
per at the time when the dispatches were re
ceived. The last information we have from
our Commiflionera fays, that they have ad
dr (Ted a Memorial to Government, and if it
be not Ihortly answered, they (hall demand
their passports. Yet gentlemen are nowdefi
rotis of changing eur present lituatio'n, though
it is really in no fefpect different from what it
was at the time our firft dispatches were re
ceived. What was the ground taken at that
time? 11 was tills. It was thought to be ex
tremely doubtful that our negociation would
succeed, Snd that therefore it was proper to
put the country into a (fateofdefencefprwar,
but to wait the event of the negociation, be
fore -jr was either declared or made.
When gentlemen wish the resolutions upon
the table 10 be adopted, they must do it from
an idea that a change has taken place in our
situation, which has diminilhed our hopes of
accommodation. Let us, said Mr. G. even
that, and that there is now lefshope of
our negociation succeeding than heretofore,
yet it is not less a fail that our Commissioners
are not yet left Paris. As to the reports which
had been alluded toas to their having been since
received, or the contrary, he meant to take
no notice of them. He pre fumed the house
knew nathingof what had taken place since
the date of the last dispatches. But if he
were to draw any inference from what he
heard and saw on the fubjeft, it would be,
that the negociation is guing 011, though the
fact might be other wife. Butwhilftthe fail
is doubtful, what is the motion beforp the
house ? It is not to rejeil the resolutions but
to postpone the consideration of them until
the doubt is removed. And could it be pro
per, whilfl doubts exist as to the fate of our
negociation, and when every day may be ex
pected to remove the uncertainty, to adopt
resolutions of this kind ? Besides, whatdif
iidvantage would arise to the United States
from a postponement ot these resolutions for a
fortnight f Was it because his colleague had
yesterday laid these resolutions upon the ta
ble, tiiat it had become all at once so impor
tant to adopt them ! It the measure was so
very necellary, how happened it thatihecom
mittee appointed on the fubjeel of the pro
teition of commerce anrl the defence of the
country, had not recommended the measure >
He himfelf could fee no inconvenience which
could arise from the proposed delay.
On the other hand, what may be the con
sequence of going immediately into the mea
iure!. It may be a very serious one. It may
involve the country in a war, which the de
lay may prevent. Gentlemen fay a favoura
ble result is not to be expected. He owned
his hopes were (lender, but whilst there exilts
a pollibility of their being realized, he was
not willing to abandon tliem ; and more es
pecially when 110 inconvenience could arifa
from the polfponemtnt which is desired.
1 he d.ffiniilion which his colleague had
made betwixt War and these half-war mea
sures is perfectly fallacious. Th;it gentleman
had said, he was ready to declare war, and he
<\ cli koov s that this is only a fubftittite for a
Jeciaration of war. K:(!ory confirms this
idea. The last- war between Great Britain
and France "-v as carried on for two years before
aiieclaration took place. 111 the war of 1-755,
ivar was not declared for three or four years
'-iivr letters of marque w ere granted to Jeize
11 - e vefl'els of the enemy. He knew a dif
tin£;ori nvght be found in the laws of nations,
as to the practice of the! aft century, but what
;• .'"aid on that fubjefl is now altogether null
and void, froifithe practice of the pre Pent cen
tury. And the laws of nations are made up
of nothing more than what isthe general prac
tice of different nations; and as that practice
changes so does the law of nations. But sup
pose letters of marque.and reprisal could pof
iibly be considered as confident with a Itate of
peage % the laws of Narions when granted to
private vefl'els in onr filiation, it certainly
cannot be allowed that inftrudtions to public
armed vefl'els tall within that description.
A motion was made to adjourn, so the house
adjourned without taking the q teftion.
FOREIGN INTELUGENCE.
LONDON, April IX.
On Sunday morning last, Mr. Floud.the
magistrate, attended by Mr. Reeves, one of
the clerks of the Bow-street office, and
Carpmeal and Dowcett, two of Ihe runners,
and accompanied by three'of his majesty's
messenger», set off for Manchester, for the
purpose of apprehending forre persons im
plicated in a charge of treasonable praftices.
They reached Manchester on Tuesday even
ing, and on Wednesday morning thirteen
persons u ere apprehended, amongst whom
are said to be two merchants of some re
fpettability, two sons of Cowdroy the prin
ter, one Cheetham, a cotton-spinner, and
one Fry, a taylor. The whole arrived last
night in town, under an escort of light-horse.
Five hundred stand of arms were likewise
found.
It is said that the information which oc
casioned the apprehenficn of these men, was
given in confluence of a quarrel among
the party, which has furnified a clue to
great difcoverie*.
It was expefled that the above persons
would undergo an examination before the
privy-coHncil thi'3 day.
The intelligence which the last letters
from the Hague bfot, of great preparations
being made in Hol'and, in order toaflift'the
French in their expedition against this covin.
ti*y, is confirmed by all the accounts f«nn that
place. By the Master of a neutral veflVl ar
rived at Harwich from Holland, we learn
that fix frigates had failed from th- Tcxcl ;
and t hat every preparation was making thtre
to equip the fleet. Tliefe frigates, it ap
pears, have arrived at Flushing. Sevetal
French frigates are stationed off the rivers,
to examine all vessels that arrive, and to pre
vent any (hipping from proceeding to sea.
All vessels above 15 tons burthen employed
in inland navigation, were demanded by the
government, and were ordered to Flushing
and Oftend, where they were collecting, and
from whence it was supposed they are all to
be conveyed to Dunkirk.
The Achilles, of 74 guns, was launched
yesterday at Gravefend.
A meeting of the lotdj lieutenants of the
countries was yesterday held at Mr. Dundas's
office, at which a deputation from the hon.
court of lieutenancy of the city of London
attended. In the evening, circular letters,
containing the plan of national defenfe, were
sent to the residences of the different gentle
men.
The Duke of York appointed a meeting
this dav with the officers of the different
volunteer corps, who have affocia.ted them
selves for the fefvice of the kingdom, to de
liver inflruflions to them for their conduct
in cafe of any attempt of the enemy to in
vade this tountry.
Proofs of a de.-p and mod dangerous con
spiracy to aid the enemy in their attempts at
! invading this country, are every day be
coming more manifeft. Very important
difcoveriw have, we understand, been made
in donfequence of the arrest of the persons at
Manchester, and who are now under exam
ination at the privy council. A eonfidera
ble number of the military in that negh
bourhood had been sworn by an association
at Mancheftef, profeffir.g to have for their,
objeft a parliamentary reform—The purport
of the oath impof-d upon the deluded sol
diery was, that if-government persisted in
opposing a Parliamentary reform, they
would, in cafe of landing of the enemy, re
volt from their officers. This fociely at
Manchester has been in cdnftant correspon
dence with the United Irishmen, and like
wise with the government of France. Their
treasonable arts have been praflifed chiefly
upon those corps composed of Scotch and
Irish. These deluded men, will, we ti*ft,
become sensible of their crime, arid a tone
for it by a moae zealous discharge of their
duty for their time to come. In the lin ug
of the coat of one of the persons fei2ed at
Manchester, it is said papers have been found
sowed up, containing inftrudlions to the
French how to aft en their landing,pointing
out the weakest part of the coast. ard advising
them of the fnpport they were likely to
meet with.
In the present flage of this most interest
ing business, we deem it improper to pub
lish all the circumstances that have come to
our knowledge. The discovery has been
providential, and we doubt net but the con
sequences will lead to the future security and
tranquility of the country. The deteftion
as we have been informed, was made by a
soldier who had been sworn in—He formed
one of a party which was marching from
Manchester to Derby. This man had been
en'rufted by the leading conspirators with
three hundred guineas, for the purpose of
extending corruption to the military at the
latter place.
The man got drunk on his march, and
whether fr.m the remorse of'confcience, or
in the wantonnefs of intoxication, we know
not, he made a conieffion of the business ia
which he was engaged and thus some of the
persons implicated were difcovercd.
TRANSLATIONS.
Rastadt, March 28.
It war, not before yesterday, that the im
perial, deputation fin Uy refofved toanfwer
the kit note of the Fre.ich mini dry, dated
IJ. They pcrfift in the preceding propo- j
iitions, arid expeft with equxl zeal and con-:
fidcnce that the French government will
consent to Germany that part of the
countries si: uatrd at the left of the Rhve,
lpecified in their declaration of Bth March;
but no'notice was t. ken in thin note of the
dclica'e article of secularization.
PF.TERSRURGH, March 9.
It wi!! he fieltl mjrfhal Suiua
roiv, fell under severe disgrace at the com
mencement of the prefrnt reign, and that he
was banilhed from the courthe has recently
been recalled to it ; a id the emperor apprars de
sirous to efface by the mod favorable receptionat
his return, and by-ioading him wilh honors, the
preceding treatment of that aged vfarrior, cov
ered with wounds received In advancing the in
tereftsand the glory of Ruflia. It appears that
M. Suwarow is to enter into active employment
but neither the particular objedl in which he is
to be engaged, nor the eccahon of his recal are
precisely known
The misunderstandings between our court an 1
that of Bavaria, being perfe<£Hy terminated, the
emperor ha. decorated with the. order of St.
Anne the Baron de Biiehler, .his minister at the
court of Munich, now at StutgarJ.
The ceremony df the interment/if the 'ate
king of Poland was made with much p:jmp :
eighteen battalions under arms formed a triple
line from before the marble palace, where ttrat
prince died, quite to the cathdlic church where
he was buried : even the emperor himfelf fol
lowed the proce.Tioa on horseback quite-to the
gate of the church.
WASHINGTON LOTTERY, No. II-
Lift of Blanks and Prizet
171H Day's Drawing—February 19.
No. Oolh. No. Dolls. No. Dolls. A'«. Dolls
949 X 14106 x 36406 33629
973 4i» 73 l 674 x
ijti 775 811 .39683 x
2147 ijaao 38609 x 41017 x
3046 x 223 684 936 x
<■4l 884 X 2930* 42030
4003 923 480 46a
ijj i6rii x 30127 f. 58a
867 x 789 237 x 834
6185 '8438 x 297 x 43475
7384 x 19:174 31563 x 674 x
794 X 974 x 735 443*6
871 20566 834 x 585
8239 21414 3«169 45213
758 J7j 310 414
826 20 32628 X 606 46866
1C915 911 x 35231 5 47176
.11143 964 673 293
30-4 30 23157 759 48441 X
J 13043 178 37048 x 664
1 385 466 146 J#93iß
363 581 x 667 387
I 695 679 - 763 590
1 13439 >5734 * 787 814
I 696 868 x 38563 965
17 2d Day's Di awing—February 24.
131 13089 a 3| lß 35648
j 330 x 391 §9O 183
gi3 498 x 945 317 x
838 13650 34116 x 553
1040 x 14414 7SS x 36046 x
473 614 *5»34 438
t'7' 749 348 30 9,9
334 1J5«5 * 7'5 37765
454 771 * 35»45 X 38090 x
3400 905 353 349 x
4080 16115 359 54!
114 x 336 873 39419
688 x 349 875 455 x
878 17337 891 606
5375 * J4I 1>137 <i,39
666 x 181S4 157 947 x
6730 497 593 x 40619
799 807 18306 x 41438
848 .19135 »9«33 717
-7185 x 576 30080 4380® x
345 685 x 183 .43387. x
836 30131 x 108 x ajj
8301 141 567 \' s i }
3.1 c 583 634 - • 923 '
343 ,973 ■ 7-89 44542
814 32345 x 910 x 876 x
9038 330 x ,-31445 46045 x
131 360 371 x 340
513 631 684 236
654 641 33387 3J 47860
883 779 * 77& 95°
10180 33359 838 48171
393 *375 33'17 * 337
756 433 161 391
884 491 784 49433
H317 x ST) 967 760
369 * 714 34183
431 x 755 77J
Positively for Tnio Nights only.
AT o'ELLERS ROOM.'
MR. CHALMERS,
Most refpedlfully begs leave to inferm his friends
and the public, that with the adiftance of
Mr. Williamson, from the New-
York Theatre, he means to give
READINGS and RECITATIONS,
Serious and Comic.
Particularly a POETIC ADDRESS to the Pat
riotic Young Men of Philadelphia.
The Firjl Evening to be
FRIDAY, June 15th.
Mr. WiUiamfon will Sing several new Songs.
And in the courfeof the Evening
The much admired popular Patriotic songs,
The Bojlon Patriotic Song-,
" ADAMS and LIBERTY."
The Nrfiv-Tork Fede al Song,
» WASHIN%TON AND THE CONSTITUTION."
A/.d
« lIAIL COLUMBIA."
Several pieces of Muficon the Grand Piano
Forte, —by the celebrated Mr. Lin
ley, being his firft appearance in
public in this Country.
N. B. Mr* Williamfon being obliged to per
form at the New-York Theatre on Monday
evening, the public may depend upon it, that
there will be no postponement on any account
whatever.
N 0 T I C ET
THE Owners or *Confignees of veflels per
forming quarantine are te take notiee that
a cart arrives from the Hospital at the Health-
Office at 7 o'clock and leaves it by 9 every mor
ning (Sundays excepted) such fuppliesas are to
be forwarded to veflels are desired to be sent to
the Health Office before the hour of* nine.
jtine 8 $
Millenery Room,
116, Market street,
Miss CH R r S TA L,
INFORMS her .riemft, that (he has received by
the iate arrivals .'rom Europe, her uiual lupply
of the very 1 atcft fafliions in MILLENERY, &c
with a great variety of Straw, Leghorn, and
Chip HATS and BONNETS, of the newest fiwpes,
which will be opened this day.
fune 11 30t
William Meredith,
Attorney at Laiv.
HAS Removed ta N~ 127 Cfcefout-ftrcet,
where Titles 10 Rt~ r cftltes arc examined
and Brief* thereof and Conveyances ot every
kind, prepared. may it, 3a\vjw
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, June 15.
CON G R ESS.
Yesterday rfie House of Representatives of
the Unilcd States went into a com.f.»ttee of the
w hole on the bill providing arms for the mili
tia throughout the United States ; which, af
ter some discussion, and the introduction ot se
veral amendments, was agreed to, and order
ed to be read a third time to-morrow. The
provision in the bill which dire&ed that the
arms should be diltribured in due proportion
among the several states, and within each di
vision of militia of the state, was ttrucL out—
they are now directed to be deposited at fuita
blc places; and a provilion was moved by the
•Speaker, and agreed 10, that in cafe the
arms should not all of them be purchaled,
and any emergency Ihould arise which ihall
occasion a call of the militia, that they lhall
be loaned to such of the militia as (hall Hand
in nee*l of them. The blank for containing
the number of fttfrtds of arms to be provided,
was filled wit# jo, 000, the sum of money ap
propriated for carrying the aft into effed
400,000 dollars. The house also went into a
committee ot the whole on the bill supplemen
tary to, and to amend the dtt authorizing the
President oi the United States to raise a pro
visional army. The bill conlitts of three lec
tions, the tirfl goes to exempt the volunteers
from militia duty ; the second to authorize
the appointment of field officers ; and the
third, to authorize the sale or loan of such
pieces of artillery, small arms and accoutre
ments, from the public arsenals as shall be
found neceflary for the equipment and train
ing of such volunteers.
1 General Shepard moved to strike out the
firft (edion of the bill, from an idea that thele
volunteer corps would go to the deftru6iion
of the mifitia. This motion, after some de
bate, was negatived 46 to 26. On motion oi
General Smith, the words and luho after the
word li army" and Jball be after the word
" establish," were (buck, out, which rendered
the fe&ion positive that all volunteers shall
fubmitto fuih rules of discipline as the Pre
sident shall direift and ellablilh in their train
ing and discipline. The seCtion was then a
greed to. Some difcuflion Fbok place on the
3d fettion, with refpeit to the power
given to the President to loan artille
ry, small arms and accoutrements to the
volunteers ; but before the qneftion on a mo
tion of General Smith, to strike out small
arms and accoutrements, and confine the loan
to pieces of artillery, was taksn, the commit
tee rose, and had leave to fit again.
A bill was received from the Senate, au
thorizing the President of the United States
to accept ot any veflel of war which may be
offered to him for the public service, in addi
tion tothofe heretofore provided.
Mi. Sewall, from the committee ap
pointed to confer with the Senate on the fub
je& of our adjournment, reported that they
had held a inference with the committee
from the Senate, the result of which was,
44 That in their opinion, it is probable Congress
may adjourn about the middle of July, at least un
til th« beginning of O&ober next ; but that the
state of public affairs renders it inexpedient to re
solve at present upon the time of adjournment."
Thf. YOUNG MEN of the counts of Grccn/viUc,
To thi PRESIDENTof thkUNI I ED STATES.
SIR,
TO assure you of our concurrence, at tkif time,
with the mesfures pursued by you, in support of oidtf
independence, is not the purpose of thi* addtefs. It
is to claim a (hare in the defence of our country and
once more shew the contrail between the defenders of
liberty, and the hirelings of despotism. We trust we
are not drgencrated from our fathers who obtained
our liberties, and be it out care to prefeive the fair in
heritance inviolate.
Suffer us to assure you, that you have only to point
out the mode, and our lives now, as ever they have
been, (hall willingly be facrificed in the defence of
our liberties and government.
Wejregietour diftancc from Philadelphia, as by
that means w$ are deprived of the happinefsot allur
ing you personally, of our readiness, under your
command, totakeuj arms in defence of our conlti
tution.
Permit us too, to congratulate you oa the hearty
concurrence of our brothers of Philadelphia; ,and
thus may you, as long as our country shall demand
the exntion of your abilities, receive inthe moll am- ,
pie manner, the sentiments and good wishes of every !
American. j
In the name of the Young Men.
W STEWART, Chairman.
D. FISHER, Sec'ry.
Grenfville, Virginia, May 26, *9B. . j
ANSWER.
To the YOUNG MEN of Greenfvillt.
. ointlfmen,
YOUR address is in a style to convince me, that
you are not degenerated from the wisdom and virtues
of your fathers, and that you will preserve the fair in
heiitance, which they defended with so much success.
The claim you advance to share in the defence of
your country, the facnfices you offer to make, and
(he applause yru bellow on your brothers of Phila
delphia, are honoiableto your charafters.
If yourdiftance had not prevented, I should have
Teen you in Philadelphia with pleasure.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June 6, '9B.
To the PRESIDENT or thi UNITED STATES.
THE the town of Martinfburg, and vi
cinity, in the state of Virginia, whole hand* are
hereunto fubferibed, beg leave to express to yoa the
great fatisfe&ion they feel from a view of the general
policy and conduttof the government of the United
States in their foreign relations. Having prudently
determined upon a system of perfeft neutrality, we
fineereiv believe, that a facrcd regard to its duties, to
ward the poweis of Europe, who have been long en
raged in a deftru&ive war ; an ardent desire to pre
serve to the .lilted States, thebleffings of peace* so
lefirable to its citizens ; an anxious foliciiudeto cul
:vate harmony and live on terms of friendly inter
courfc with all nations, hasbeen the invariab e policy
of our government. The wife, just, modeiate and
prudent measures you have pursued to prevail upon
chegovernmen/ of France, to rc(pc£t our rights, to
ceale from the unjust and cruel depredations on our
defencelefs commerce, and to liibmit to a fair and can
did discussion, every fubjedt of complain', which she
hasmade(we believeunjulily) agair.il our government,
must evince to the whole world your fixed determin
ation to pursue the fame wife just and prudent policy.
It is with a deep but indignant regret we find that the
government*oi France, abandoning every principle of
honor and justice which ought to govern nations,
~allous to the miferiesever attendant on a state of war
.0 the human race ; proud, vain and haughty in the
elevated nations in which i<s membeis appear to be
unmeritedly.placed, has not only refilled, with cit
umftances of unparalleled infulr, every effort on
\our part, to restore harmony and friendly intercourse
between the two nations, but have threatened to add
i ravage of our defencelefs to the innumerable
robberies committed on our property on the seas.
They have not flopped here. MilcalcuUting, v.e
trull, upon finding a number of our fellow citizens so
abandoned as k to aid them, they have even threatened
>ur independence as a nation. In thislituation of our
country, we hold it an indifpcnfcUe du:y to declare to
you, that we peffefs but one fenumrnt on the occa
fwrp Highly aj we ettimate the blcilir'ws of p^ace,
yet we never will confait to prostrate the liberty and
independence of our country at the feet of Franop, or
any other nation upon earth. Relying with full con
fidence an the wisdom, prudence and patriotism 06
our government, its measures upon this alaimiog oc
cation, we b=g leave to affuie you Sir, will meet
with every aid and support in our power to give
them. May 9, '9B.
[Signed by 145.!
Tt tit Citizen of Martinfhurg and its vicinity, in til
State ftf Kirginia.
GENTLEMEN,
I than!: you for this truly American addrcTi
—Thefatiifadion you feel, from a view of the
general policy and conduit of ths government, in
their foreign relations, is a good proof of their
wisdom, and equity.
The approbatidn y#u exprefj of the meafores
pursued by i»i, to prevail upon the government
of Franc# to reipeel our rights, to cease from the
unjust, and cruel depredations, on our defencelefi
commerce, and to fubmic to a candid difcuflion
every fubjeit of complaint, is very honorable to
me—the conduct of France in mum, ha» left ut
no alternative but reliftance.
Y»ui affur..nce, that you possess but one senti
ment, that you never will consent to prostrate
your country at the feet of France, and that the
measures of government will meet with every aid
and support in your power to give them, is all
that your country or your government can desire.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June 9tb, 1798.
At a meeting of the citizens of Charleston,
held at St. Michael's church, on the sth
of May, 1798, purfuarit to public notice,
the following rtfolutions were unatiimouf
ly adopted, viz
Resolved, That the citizens of Charleston,
having seen, with deep rejjret, the aliena.
tion of the French Repnbhc from the Uni
ted States, learnt, with sincere fatisfaftion,
the appointment of a solemn embafly, com
posed of three of ft diftinguilhtd ci
ti«ens of the United iStates, entruftel with
adequate powers, and with liberal, wife
and conciliatory inftruftions, " for the pur
pose of terminating, all diffe ences between
the United States of America and the
French Republic, and of restoring and con
firming perieft harmony and good tinder
ftanding, and re-establishing a commercial
and friendly intercourse with them."
Resolved, That they have understood,
with real sorrow, that the expeftations
founded on this embafly have been disap
pointed, so that, " there exists bo hope,
thitt the objeSs of the mifliSn will be, in
any wiy, attomplifhed." ~.
Refalvtd, That it is abtalutely necessary,
at this awful moment, when the most hu
miliating demands have been made on this
country ; and those demands avowedly
growing out of an idea of an internal divi
sion ;—to declare, publicly and explicitly,
our feed determination to maintain the con
(litution, support the government, aii<l de
fend the independence of the United States,
to the utmost of our power, and, at all ha
zards, against the encroachments of every
foreign nation,
Resolved, therefore, That a Committee be
appointed to prepare an address to the Pre
sident, Senate and Hosfe of Rcpreft nta
tives, communicating to them, the unalter
able resolutions we have taken and expressed,
and soliciting that the most prompt and ef
fectual provifioh may be made for the pro
teftion of the commerce, defence of the
territory,and maintenance of the sovereignty
of the United States.
As the sudden and great demands, which
may be made on the government of the Uni
ted States, for the purposes of national de
fence, may oblige a too limited pro ifion
for the fortifications eflential to the secu
rity of the sea-ports :
Resolved, That a' voluntary contribution
be raised by fubfeription, in aid of the sums
which have been, or may be, appropriated,
by the government, to the fortification and
defence of the city and harbor of Charleston
and the inlets of this state.
That General Walhtngton, Colonel Ed
ward Rutlcdge, Colonel Vanderliorft, the
Intendant, Colonel Le.-, Major Simmonj,
and Mr. Nathaniel Ruflell, be a Committee,
to obtain and collrft such fubferiptions, and
to superintend the application of the sum»
■so raised to the said purpose, in concurrence
with the engineer of the United States, and
of the state engineer.
By order of the meeting,
JOHN EDWARDS, Chairman.
To JOHN ADAMS,
PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES.
The ADDRESS£3"MEMORIAL
Ofthecitlzens ofCharlefton, South-Carolina
Shewcth RefpeSfully,
THAT your memorialifh learnt, with
the most sincere fatisfaftion, the appoint
ment, by the Executive Government of the
United States, of a solemn embafly, duly
empowered and wifely inftrufted, to endea
vourto removealldifferences with the French
Republic, and to maintain the relations of
amity and peace berween the two countries.
That yuur memorialists have understood
with the deepest regret, that the spirit of
conciliation andpeacemanifefted by the gov
ernment of the United States, hath been!
met by a spirit of hostility, in the councils
of the French Republic ; and that the mis
ifters of peace had not been admitted to the
privilege of an audience, fcaroely ever deni
amorig civilized nations.
That the most unreasonable demands have
been made upon this country, by persons
pretending and appearing to aft under the
authority of the French Government; but
which, it is sincerely hoped, not with the
sentiments of the people of France; with
out even the pretence of injury or wrong
having been committed—demands which, if
submitted to, would prostrate the United
States at the sett of France, and convert
her from a free and independent nation, into
a tributary and degraded province.
Your memorialitls are aftonithed to find
1 hat thefc demands hare been perfeveringly
urged, upon a prd'umption that the Ame
ricans were a divided people ; and would ne*
vtr unite in fuppott of their own govern
ment, in opposition to these demands ; and
that upon this fallacious idea, our commerce
hath been harraffed, without redress; andoOr peace and our independence ate
. ened.
Deeply affiled at this state of the public
affairs, your memorials feel themfelvea ir
resistibly impelled to make a full, solemn and
explicit declaration, of their sincere attach
ment to the constitution and government of
the United States ; ond of their fined refo.
lutinn to maintain an I support them against
ALL foreign encroaC*imentand domina ion,
at the hazard of their lives and fortunes
j Your memorialists are but too well acquaint
ed with the miseries and calamities of war,
and they would will rvly have averted them,
by the facrifiee of secondary interests But
they do not hesitate to dt=el*re their prefer
ence of every calamity to a servile fubjedtion
to a foreign yoke«
Yoor memorialists repose confidence in the
wisdom and patriotism of the constituted
authorities •, a d trult that the mod prompt,
vigorous and efficacious steps will be taken,
" to provide for the common defence, pro
mote the general welfare, and secure the
blessing* of liberty to ourselves and our pos
terity" they submit, to the difcretiori
of the Government, the measures eflential j
to the attainment and security f these g-eat .
«bje&».
By ord*r of 'he ATerting,
, JOHN EDWARDS, Charman.
To ilk Citizens of Charlejion, in the Jlate of
South Carolina.
OENTLr MIS,
I AN} v ry ien&He of the honor that
is d ne to me, ivy this adHrcfa.
As Am eric h.s not produced, on a r y
occasion, eitiz ns more patient and perfc
verinj under the inevitable cala >iities of,
war, or more determined and magnanimous
in defence of their libert-ics and indepen- j
denpe, tban th* patriotic citizens and inlia
bitants of Cliarlelton, of both fexe9, it was
not to be believed that they could not re
ma'n in file-ce at such a crifia as this.
The charafter of our country «ias never
more in danger .than at thia moment. That
char ifler whichUns been the fotirce of our
felicity, f ouV'(fi|Hrlat(on, of our profperi
/ tv. I rejoice to find that Charlcfton is un
changed.
The fentimentu, Gentlemen, of your
wliole address, are so consonant to my own,
that it would be fuperflous to fay more than
that you have my unfeigned thanks.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 22, 1798.
By this day's Mail.
' I N2W.YOXK, June 14.
year unimportant.
There was a large meeting of republicans last
evening at Martlmg's, agreeably to notice in the
Argus, which appointed a committee to draught
a petition to Congrefa on the fubjed of the late
sritijb depredation® on our commerce, and to
rrp«rt it to the meeting, which adjourned to
meet in the Fields at 12. o'clock.on Saturday
sext. We are promised particulars for to-mor
row's Argut.
ELEC'i lON.
The Canvass an-) EJiimtite of the ballot* for
JXfprrjentati'vei in Con*re/s was commenced yef
terday —the following is the result of the day's
work: Ift. DISTRICT.
E. Livingfton, P. Livingfton.
tft Ward 175 137
»d Ward 145 37*
J jd Ward 124 409
I 4th Ward 32b 231
Ward 290 255
9th Ward 153
1 734 1559
' Majority for Mr. E. Livingfton, 175 1
id. DISTRICT. 1
J. N 'Havens. Thorn. 1
Suffolk County 1044 183 •
Queens Counry 376 797 j
Kings County 309 IS7 1
"Richmond County 29 335
1758 1502
Majority for Mr. Havens, f
' (
It i« contemplated in this city also, we are in- r
■for/ned, to arm and equip several vessels for the t
proteilion of our comi|jerce —and confiderahte
sums have already been fubferibed to a paper
now in circulation tor that purpose.
Our regular files of London papers were re- c
ceivedbythe Mary, capt. Allyn, butj they are v
old. , PaflVngers mention the con/lei nation which f
reigns xn that old, tyiant-ri lden, 'tmbapby coun- a
try. Argus.
PIfTSBURGH, June 9. 0
Yeflerday about uocn, the Galley Prcfi- f
dent Adams fell down the river from her moor- 1
ings before this town. A handsomer or
1 ti : hter boat nevev ftemed tide, or floated i
' M>ith the current—well built, well manned.
*nd well armed—(hei- able to protest the J'
weak, or to humbla the haughty, and we
will hazard the assertion, that in the cause 1
her country's rights, honor, and ndc- 1
pendence (he will not disgrace the illustrious ®
jiame (he btarf.
The President Adams favored the town 1
■with a federal falvte, q« (he went off, under v
the acclamation of I ujiireds of fpeftstor!>, ¥
who crouded the banks of the Allegheny. a
The Galley Senator Rofs s upon the *
flocks, and, will he launched in about fix
w*ks—(lie promises to do credit to the ar- c
ehiteft. r f
a
ELIZABETH-TOWN, (N.J.) June 7, '9B. F
P
The regiment of the borough of Elizabeth, o
cfcnfiftipg of a company of Licht-Horfe, a com- p
panyof Artillery, a company of Grenadiers, a j>
1 company of Ivifrht Infantry, all completely
♦qnifpfd aud uniformed—and eight companies
of ijjfarury this day met pr.rfuant to law J
forjhc piMpofeof improvina thtmfclvesin mil- I ai
itsrv difciplinc—performed the usual exercises I
of the day, and after bring reviewed by [ ol
dier Cumminp, formed themfejves inro ; oi
a WH clurnt! and resolved unanimoudy, that ' n ,
colonel Williams Crane, their commanding offi- j av
cer, be'requefted to inform the frefidentcf the j
Untted State?, in their names, tint they (land ■
ready at his call with their lives and fortunes ro '
ftipport the government, laws and rights cf th
their ccnjtfry, against a l l her j nc
1c aw °f United States.
t- *
«' <s£u,t/iori6i^.
r . Fifth Congress of the United States:
,n Be S un and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the 6tatc of Pcnnfylv.inia, on Mon- •
ie day, the thirteenth qF Novembt r,
d one thonfand seven hundred
t, and ninety seven.
i.
>- AN A'"T
ie 1 To suspend the commercial ititercourfe between
f- the United States, and France, and the dc
n | pendencies /her of.
a l ' Sec. ~TJE it enaded by the Senate and
-L3 House of Rcprff ntati'vcs of the
United States of merica, in Congress assembled,
That no (hip t vrfTel, ruvned. 1 irrd, or
employed whcollv nr f n part, by anv person
resident within the United S'nu-s, a '<l which
f fliall depart therefrom after tliefiitt '.ny of
j Jyly next, (hall be allowed" to proceed di*
j reftiy. or from any intermedi.ite port or
it ■ place, to any port or place v.irhin the terri
| tory of the Frsnch Repub ic, or the de
y ' pendencies thereof, or to any pla?e 111 the
: Well-Indies, orilfcwhere under the acknnw
,f ( ledged gonrnment of France, or (hall be
13 j employed in ar.y traffic or commerce with, ;
i- | or for any person rcfideat within t' e juris- j
i diction, or underthe au' ho ity of 'he French i
s Republic. And if any (hip or vefTel, in any
voyage thereafter commencing, and befnre ;
her return within the United States, fiia'il j
r be voluntarily carried, or to proceed I
t to any Frendi port or place as afortfaid.or '
r fliallbs employed as aforefnid, contrary to i
. the intent hereof, every such ship or vefl'el j
. together with her cargo shall be forfeited, j
and shall accrue, the one half to the use of !
r the United States, v and the other half to the !
' , u^e . zn 7 P er f° n <> r persons, citizens of the
1 United States, who shall inform and prose
cute for the fame ; and shall be liable to be
seized, profe'cuted and condemned in any
circuit or diftrifl court sf the United States
which fh 11 be holden within or for the dif
trid where the seizure shall be m«de.
Sec. 2 Ar.d be it further euaded, That af
ter the firft day of July next, no clearance
for a foreign voyage shall be granted to any
(hip or vessel, owned, hired, or employed,
t wholly orin part by any person resident: with
r in the United States, until a bond shall be
t given to the use of the United States, where
: in the owner or employer, if usually refidenc
' or present, where the clearance shall be re
'r quired," and otHerwise his agent or fa&or ;
. and the mafler or captain of such (hip or
vefTel for the intended voyage, shall be par
t:e», in- a sum equal to the value of the ship
or vefTel, and her cargo, and (hall find fuffi
• cient ftiretyorfuretieS, to the amount of dne
half the value thereof, with condition that
' the fame shall not, during her intended Voy
age, or before her return within the United
Sta'.es, proceed, or be carried, direftly or
indire&ly to any p rt or place within the
territory of the French Republic, or the de
pendencies thereof. or any place in the Weft
Indias, or ellewhere, underthe acknowledg
ed government of France, uvlefo by diltrefs
of weather, orwant of pravifions, or by atl
tial force and violence, to v be fully proved and
manifcfled before the acquittance of such
bor.d j and that such veflels is not, or (hall
not be employed during her intended voy.
age, or before her return as aforefaid. in any '
traffic or commerce with or for any person '
resident within the territory of that Repub- '
lie, or in any of the dependencies thereof. I
Sec. 3. And be it further enaded, That '
from and after due notice of the palling of '
this a&no-Frenchfhipoijveflel.armedorunar '
med,commi(fionedbyorfor, or under the au- '
thority of the French republic, or owned,
fitted, hired or employed by any petfon resi
dent within the territory of that republic,
oranyofthedependenciesthereof.c rfailirigor 0
coming therefrom, excepting any vefTel to
which the President of the United States t
(hall grant a passport, which he is hereby j
authorized to grant in all cases where it shall i
be requisite for the purposes of any political }
or national intercourse shall be alWed an 0
entry, or to remain within the territory of
the Uni ed States, unless driven there by c
diftrefsnf weather, or in want of provision. p
And if contrary to the intent hereof any
filch ship or vefTel shall be found within the
jurisditfionallimits of the United States, not (
being liable to ftizure for any other cause,
the company having charge thereof shall he
required to depart and carry the fame,
avoiding all uimeceflary delay ; and ifjhey v
shall, notwithftandiiii, remain, it shall he o
the duty of the coileflor of jhe ditlrift,
wherein, or neartfl to which, such ship or
vefTel (hall be, to seize and detsin the fame,
at the experA of thr United States : PlO
- That (hips or veflels which (hall be
■bonafide the property of, or hired or employ
ed by citizens of the U ited Stales (hall be £
excepted from this prohibition until the firft d
day of December next, and no lorirer; And H
Provided that in the cafe of vefTels hrveby 31
prohibited which shall be driven by diltrefs C
of weather, or want of pivvifions into a:iy
port or place of the United States, they may lr
be fuffered to remain uider the enftody of
the colleilor there, or ncarcft thereto, until
suitable repairs or fupp'ies can be obtained,
I and as soon as may bt thereaftci fliall be re
quired and fuffered to depart ; but no part
of the lading of such vefTel (hall be taken
out or disposed of, unless by the- special per
roit of such colleftor. or to defray the un
avoidable expense of such repairs or fupplits.
Sec. 4. And be it further enaSed, That
this a<S (hall continue and be in foVfe until
the end of the next feOiou of Congref?, and
60 longer.
Seft. J. Prov JeJ, nmllt'ttfurthe?tnftH J,
That if, before the !*ejct session of Congress,
the government of France, and ail persons
afling by or under their autfeority, (hail
, clearly djfavow, and (hall b;* found t<> refrain j
from t l e aggrefßofis, depredations and hwf- j
tllities which have been, and are by them i
encouraged and Maintained again It the vcf- '
fels and other property of the citizens of the
United States, and agairift their nalional
rights and fovereigntv, in violation i-f the
faith of treaties, and the aws of nations,
and shall thereby acknowledge the just
claims of the United Sta'es to be consider
ed as in all refpefts neutral, and nnconnefled
in the present European war, if the fame
lia >; shall be continued, then* and thereupon it
■ ' shall be lawful for the President of the ti
nned States, being well afcertaived of the
premises, to rem t and difcontimie the pro
hibitions and restraints herrby enafled and i
dt- lan d ; and he shall be, and is hereby au- !
ti!oriz<'d to make proclamation thereof ac
ern cordingly : Provided, that nothing in this
" c ~ aft contained, shall extend to- any ship or
veflel to which the President of the United
'"d States (hall ; ;rant a permifTlon to enter or
the c ] ear . —which permJffion he is hereby au
thorized to grant to vessels which (hall be
or solely employed in any purpose of political
o '' or national inrercourfe, or to aid the de
c'> part ure of any French persons, with their
°/ go ds and effefts, who shall have been reli-
J'" dent within the United States, when Ije
or may think i' requi'fite.
ri " ' JONATHAN! DAYTON,
' e " Speaker of the House of Representatives.
he TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United Stales,
and President of the Senate.
'•» ■ Approved, Junr 13 1798. j 1
lf J JOHN ADAMS,
: i President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of
J" e j the Department of State.
Timothy Pickering, ,
Secretary of State. j
! Macpherfon's Blues. 1
I j BATTALION ORDERS, I
I I June 15th, 1978.
3* j s£s* THE BLUES are to afTcmblei f° r the pur
-1 pose of Exercise, in full uniform, on Mondaf
next, at 5 o'clock in the morning, on the ufaal I
parade, Centre Square. t
ROBERT HEYSHAM, Adjutant,p. /. r
>e N. B. In future, when the Bz.uts.are ordered |
ly to aflemble, it is to be understood that tfcey/ure to f
rs appear full uniform, and at the ufvalparade, un-
lefs the orders express the contrary.
E
f. Infantry Company. 1
;e £5" THOSE young men, who are "willing to r
form an uniform Light Infantry Company, to be r
Y attaclod to one of the regiments of Militia of f
i» the city of Philadelphia, are r«quefted to meet at e
1- Yohe's tavern, the sign of the White Swan, in r
)e Race,ftreet,.on Saturday evening, at 7 -o'clock.
June 15 I
!! Artillmfts ! Attention |
. THE 6th Qompany of the Regirqent of C
)r Philadelphia Artillery, being a part of the C
80,000 militia,, ordered.by the President of
P tire United
i- march at a moment's warning,"—it is ex
e pe&ed, as the members have been duly no-
Lt tified, that they will, at this important and j
r . eventful crißs, evince a laudable ambition to
d appear and aS as citizen Soldiers, in defence
ir of our.Liberties and Independence, as fe- ?
e cured by the Federal and State Conftitu- !!
.. tioris and Government, under favor of divine
(I Providence. n
The free, independent Citizens of Phila
•s delphia, Soutliwajjk and the NcrthernLiber- C
. ties, are invited to join the said Company, 5
(1 upon the terms of appealing in complete
3 uniform, agreeably to the rights and privi- a .
I] leges ftcured to the " Volunteer Corps of
. Artillery," by the nth fetlion of au ad of
y Congrcls, patTed the Bth of May, 1792, u
and the 3d fe£Uon of the present militia
. law of this (late. 31
N. B, All Eleftion for a Second Lieut. a
t will be held at Capt. Handel's, in Race- \
f next Monday afternoon, at 7 o'clock,
where the punflual attendance of the mem- C<
. bcrs is expected.
JOHN WOODSIDE, Captain.
June 14.
—— in
r (d- Attention ! Artillery Blues. 2
' THE Gentlemen who have enrolled fp
i themselves in order to form the above Com- n)
' pany, are desired to meet on Saturday even- bt
[ ing, 16th June, at 7 o'clock, at George va
1 Hill's, No. .130, North Second-street, sign at
I. the Buck, Officers, determine
: upon uniform, and form bye-laws. Appli- St
cants, previous to that time, will enjoy the ly
privilege of voting. er
June 14. re
Editors of newspapers will please to cive l r
: the above a place. hi
VOLUNTEER GREENS. ° f
THE Troop will parade in uniform, com- ar '
plctely equipped on S't» uvlkill Bank, weft end of vr>
Walnut jireec, on Saturday 16th Juue instant, at four du
o'clock in the afternoon. i
JOHN MbRRELL, Captain. ™
June 13. br
Volunteer Rifle Company. 'j'
THE.CitizensofPhiladelphia and the North
ern Liberties, who arc disposed to join
laid company, in iupport of the Liberty and
Laws of tljjeir country, are informed that arti- flic
cles of association are left at the houses of John '*
Haines, no. 13a, High flreet, John Coyle, no.
303, said street, and at the counting house of
Obadiah Siockton, corner of 9th and High
ftrcets, where able bodied, adive citizens are ,
invited to enrol ibprnfclves.
C 5" Printers in this city ore reque/led to in
givj the Above afe publications.
jure 12
FOR SALE, l° e l
800 pieces of Sail Cloth sta
10 tows of Sheet Lead
Apply t« * er
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co. cri
;une 15 § fide
rite
30 tons of Lignum Vita,
FOR SALK BY j 0 (
NICKLIN Sj* GRIPFITH. :he
j'J«e 7 tuth'.t pal
• ~ < 'l■ if lIIW Ml I MIMI lima 1.11» —■ !»■ % »—II J
S; TM (sfecttc.
_ __ _____ ' ' "
a»n j PHILADELPHIA, ,
i | FRIDAY.EVENING, J UN « , 5 .
:he At a mee'ir.g of a number of the Citizens '
nal of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia, '
:he above the age prefc. b;d by law for the pe - ,
formance of militia duty, convened, in con v
uft sequence of pr-viotts advertifemenf, at Mr. *
er- Dunwoody'sinM'arket-ftt-eet.on Weduefday '
ed la ft, to take in o consideration the present '
ne critical fituat ion of public affair*, and deli- !•
it berate on the method by which they reay h
U- best contribute to the public defence, Col. a
he James Read was appointed Chairman, and e
•0- Jared Ingcrfoll, Esq. Secretary. a
nd j The objt£l and dtfign ot the mieting was 1
u- | explained by Mr. Ingerfoll, who concluded °
ic- by reading the following proposals, which r
us lome of the gentlemen present hadprevioufiy
or prepared. j
ed "To protest our Qountry from insult, ti
or outrage and dilhonour, to preserve her from h
u- a foreign yoke and to maintain our freedom ' JI
be and independence, the Congress and Execu- h '
■al tive of the United States adopting the n '
e- mod vigorous and energetic mealurc fc , the
:ir governor of our (late has i(fut d hi= procl.tm
li- a ion for enr lling, organizini> attd equip- t |
Ije ping the great body of the militia. Our ] c
Sons have already a (facia ted in aims : at so
awful a crisis, we the fubl'cribers, citizens i j.
of the United States and nhabitants of the
| City and Liberties of Philadelphia, nSove
the age prrfcribed by law for the perform
j ance of m litia duty, holding ourfelv, . ,in-
j difpenfably obliged to contribute to the pub
lie fafety to the utmost of our ability do m
agree, ' C
of I ft. That we will as early as pofßbl • pro- :
vide surfelves each with a gooi muficct, b<ty-*j pl
onet. cartridge box; and twenty four chap, T
ges of powder and b 11, and k; e the fame ai
= in good order at our rcfpe&ive hotifes, or !"
such other place as may hereafter be agreed
upon. hi
2. That when any company have affoci
r~ ated together to a fufficient number, we will
al proceed to chufe one fuitabl- person as cap- F c
tain, one lieutenant and one second lieute- t! .
nant by ballot or otßerwife as (hall be agreed
d upon, and such other officers as may be
° found expedient.
3-, That when the companyor companies
are compleated, the officers (hall apply to
the Executive for such commiflions as it .
o may be deemed proper to grant them, and lC!
, e make a tender of this association for the de- to
,f fence and preservation of the City and Lb- to
It erties, to be formed into companies, regi
-0 ments or othervvife, as may best answer the
pbrpofe of orders, discipline and m litary Wl
preparation. &<
4. Tiiat fucE of U3 as are of health and 35
f constitution to undergo the fatigues of a
, camp, will voluntarily offer ourselves, for
• f repelling, unrter the direaions of the Ex- tyl
o ecutive, any invasion of this (late and for on
the fitpp- rt of the civil authority.
's* That if the militia and volunteers of
j the City and Liberties of Philadelphia, be
3 drafted or ordered to aaual service at a dif- D J
e tance from home, -we will make diligent en- fntt
qtiiry in our refpeaive wards and townftiips, in g
into the state of their families, and admin . 1
. ifter to their comfort and relief in the best ma
manner in our power." Sou
Alter the proposals had been read .a fe- iVIu
cond time, the Chairman inquired i l any
person had anvobjeai. n to the proposals.
[ Several persons expressing their approbation
; a "d no one difappvoving, the ch. irman put f a ;j
P the queltion, whether the citizens present j Hn
P approved the proposals, and it was th;re
upon voted unanimoudy in the affirmative. f„
It was r.ext moved by Mr. Hollingfworth , 2
and seconded by Mr. Tilghman, that acorn ,
mittc be appointed in each ward of the City T, n
a d Liberties, for the purpose of handing
this alfociaiion round to the citizens, and * •
committees were nominated accordingly
f to . I /1
S*" e '4- 3 t n / e
This illutlrious example merits universal
imitation : under the benign influence of tin's Mr
spirit we emerged from colonial infignifi- ;
cance, int» existence as a nation. Underthis buj
spirit we mult now lctk refuge from ignorr.i- ton
ny and (Livery. But it mull and ought to p ;
be rtaliz d, that these measures and the pre- t ,. r|
valence of this spirit are not more honour- i 3o ,'
able and praise worthy, than tbrv are necef- tn
fary. Unless we would (hare the fate of
Switzerland, whose (teps we have till recent- teel
ly minutely followed, it is essential that ev- : co _
ery man be ready at all point's, not otily to Yoi
repel violence by vigorous adion, but ,i le
lay down his life in defencj of the liberty of j mol
bis country. I-or this event, the citizens i
of Philadelphia, old men and yonn j men, ! jj r( .
are, one and all, prepared. With a ioud ig, ,
voice they cry " para/i fumus" —their con-j r
dutft proves it—and the godlike energies ! Au
which they (hew forth or. all fides, p o j;
brate in the loudest tones of nature to every q
extremity of tht Union, they nnuft rtfound p|, a
thro' the remotcft tealms of the universe and j» tc
thunder terror and difnjay into the hfarts cf ; g a ]
the tyrannical and perfeculirg Dire ors ; •«==
while Heavsn itfelf in favoring smiles, Oiill
(hower upon our heads,
"Succefsasgloriotis, asourcatrfe is right."
COMMUNICATION. Nfm
Jacobinical lixpositioh.
When the Alien bill u-as urtder conlideratipn ] '
in the Senate of the Uni |fi States its oppofrrs _ JL I
attacked with great warmth the provifien whii h
iiuthorized the President to order out of the
'country fueh Aliens as were in his opinion dun- a
gerous to the peace and fafety of the United
States. or; i]
Mr. Read cf Swath Carolina, in ar.fwer; as- i= nn
ter remarking, that there conld be no well fduirij- owm
ed ronltitutional objtJlion to iin - who
firfent with ' hiy powt-r—that Aliens were enti- j(i
titd only to a temporary firoteßie,i, and owed
only a local allegiance which mkjht he put an ™
end tn at the ortion of t-Hiier party, hy notice. I 1
to depart on the one fide or a&na! departure on F r
the other —that it was riot a qutfton of tvvanlci- 0 f t l
pal but of political regulation, and muK be t;fi- ar .d ,
£1 ed hy tho'e common rules which nstusm !,,•!
eftabiilhed to regulate 'their imehotiife and the
terms on which the futjecfls of one n«ior. arcreJ
reived into the territory of «jnn!hrri-tliat : it w.-.i
» -an ickjiovledjfeJ priniipte of this U w tt, 2t i
fwercijß p * igW'r.cfiile .Aliens /ntijrium
whtnrve'r they became danpre'rons—nliJetveik
that in his option at this uifisthf PrcGilenc
'■houlci, a/i to these be'veftA! w! h po>rer
toff' :hnt a.> injt>ry happened to the common
wealth.
a ' For thj* frmiment he was a few rhys jftrr-'
■ wards charged by a Senator from Virginia «Ith
n wishing to mak* the Prejiicnt factor. This
.r. w s the Senator's expoGtVn of the ab'<»« fenti
,y meat. Though Mr. Read repelled thi< attack
nt by denying the propriety of this eonftruflion of
|]'. '"'words, and explaining what he meant to the
latisraaion of every candid mind ; Barhe, in
y his paper of yesterday, affcrtrd th.it Mr Kea<T
advocated . he idea of, the Prefulent having pow
id er to lend away nt only Ment, but Citiznt
and even Sexafrt. Thi , is bit txpcjiuon of the
3S Jam<? wortis This mas: would no well tore
d I°'<e<fl that though he has not nominally renoun
h ctd his allegiance lo the United States, and riffcre
fore is yet entitled.to the frivMege. of a Citaen
it is hopt of those privileges to mifreprefent
the proceedings of either branch of the le<*ifla
t, ture or to caluminate its members—that both
n houses arc in duty bound to protest their mem
n hers, and that he viwes his impunity to their for
. bearance ind his own infignilicance. —He ous hr
not to presume too far.
MR. FEN NO,
YOU will oblige me bv publishing in
the Gaz-tte of the United States, (he fol
lowing cxtrad from the P nnfylvania Pick-
J ct, ptiblimed by John Dunlap, on the sth
3 uay of January, 1779.
J One oj Macpherfon' 1 Bluet.
- Last week arrived here from New*
- York, Mr. William Macpherso . late
. Lieutenant and Adjutant in his" Britannic
> 'V s regiment ot soot—son of
Cup:. Job Macpherfon of this city, and
_ , brother of the ate gallant Major Mac
'' wtl " k" bti Vre the walls of Quebec.
This young gentleman entered the Bikifll
. army very ea ly in life. The part hit fa
r truly look n the prcfent war, and his feel
j ings S3 an American, induced him to em
biace the firft opportunity that his honor
. gave him of ficrificing a mode of life that
[ choice, habit and tie moll flattering prof
. petts had m ß de agreeable to him, rather
than employ his arms agaiuil the liberties of
I his native country."
Mrs. Adams's last Drawing Room for
! the Season, will be on Friday Evening Kext.
■ ® ING ham, Esq. has patriot,
ically subscribed the sum of 5000 dollars,
to the fund for building /hips to be loaned
to government.
•n'r '•? ex P e<^ Delaware sloop of war
will fail an Monday next, her guns, stores,
&c. being onboard ;fliewait ß only far about
35 seamen. She lies at Walnut-street wharf.
Amongrt the Afls pasTed br the I erifla
ture of Conneflicut, at their last fefTion, is
one for the fuppreffi n of Mountebanks,
Rope Dancers, Tumblers, &c.
V 4
A CARD.
MefTr.. Chalmers and Williamson moft-reC.
pectfully acquaint th? pubhc, that the PRESIDENT
interims to honor the ente;tainments of Friday cveai
ing with his presence. 7
The numb, r of tickets will be limited—Those L»-
ntes and Gentlemen who with to fupplv themfrW
mav have them t.yappl f in ? at >4r. Fr r m .„'s X„.
South From.fir- rt, oppofiteih" p oft-i ( ffi-c; Kr. Car,'»
Muhcftore, M«ker-itrect, and at O'E'lns' Motel.
. . , _ . B Jlon, June 10.
Arrived, ship Merchant, Trail, London
failed with the 2d convov, 49 days from
land to land. April 9, f p „ke ship Jane of
1 hilad bound up; while at Portsmouth
spoke (hip Herald Derby, of Bo (lon, May •
12. lat. yo, long 27, 30, loft the convoy
in co. with 20 fail, left with them 12 foil s
June 3, fppk fcl,r. Roebuck, Harris, f.om
Koch lie, 50 day 3 out.
The Merchant failed fr-m Portsmouth
17th under co. voy of th-frigate Ne
rrclis, capt. Oliver, psffyigers, Samuel
7j ? f wi" k ; Mr ' Mn Murr ck
j and Lei,y ; MV. Mrdford, of Virginia; and
Mr. Matthew Tapere?!.
Same day brig Lvdia, Moreland, Ham
g\£3„dayS left tl, " # Juno of Bos
ton ; \/a(hi: gton, of do. Pe-nfylvania, of '
rh.iiad. to fail sn three days for home ; h'n
terprife St. Barbe ;-Swift, of New-York
bourd to East-Indies; Jnc-.es, Brown bound
'v a r g i ' Hu!daof fitting for the
indies j Night of CharVfton ; Volun
, teer of Philad. to fa 1 for R u ssi a . f ;li!cd
J CO. with brig Holboru, Mycall, for New
• Y L or „ } Entcrprifc Norris, of Baltimore ;
the flup Uni. 11 failed a few days for Balti
i V pode ? u '"g ,n i barque Hope, Croc
, ker, from 801 lon 44 days owt. Capt.
i Brown of the James, had Hiot himfclf in a
: nt ot delirium.
I Same day arrived, fchr. Lively, Curtis,
Aux-Caye,, 22 days. Left there fchr.
Polly, Davis, Philadelphia.
T) :« Atwjtr can of BoP.on, from
L 'arlefion, for London, is taken into port
JUc. It 4S re.por ed, that the ship Superb,
18 a 'i9 t.ken uto the fa id port.
, jfOljji'LtlV"'
Smijxiffsjfcan given immediately,
THAT WH.L KN ,VX TAVERN HOUSE,
k'°- 333' in Front-street, '
Near l'cole's br»d»—formerly the sign of the
liTVfcjnJ i.imh
r riquire at No. ji t Jierlh Sijtb fl«et.
_.r»» n 5
L O'S 7\~
ON Till rOLTRTK INIT4NT.
ANOIJi OF HAND C.-or<>c Pen rock, to
j. Dorfcy, »rd S M. For. which f-n dus
on that day and was (iu y paid. • The Ban!; receipt
v on it, therefore it i< iileiefs to my other than the
owner. The ptniej wilt be oblige to acv pstfon
who (hall xeiurn it. •
3tavv3w
fliW CO fuss OF •
The Last I)i patches,
rrnm the Anisrican Envoys at and a few
of those laid before Conjrefs, on the :d t! .< pril
>r.d 4th i f Msy, be had at this OSlcc. 'Frcfli Teas. » FfC
juj! Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
jlnd For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL, ■ )
At h's Connoting Houft , No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet, _____
AN* ■ Y 1 "
SAM. E. HOWELL, J
At hit Compting Houfc, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
also,
China Ware, assorted; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeen*, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone sticks.
then have also For Sidt,
JLU wide Pernant. Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks an<f Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
march 8. • $ r— 1
FOR HALE. L<
A THREE Story Brick Houft, on the north
fid? of Spryce-ftreet near Second-llreet, me
idjoininjt the will ef Mr. Jones 1 , garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, tfq.—Thi»
house is in compleat repair with back buildings,
confiding of a Piazza, Kitchen and a hindfome _J
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
.As any Perf m inclined to purchase will view
the premifcs.a more particular description i»con- A
fidered unnecellary.
The terms of payment will be one third calh,
one third in 6 months an<J the remainder in 12
months wuh interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN Cii AIG, t
No. «* Dock-Jlrect. '
■»y - I— lie.
Military Colours. Tr
At C. GULLAGER's
Poi-trait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
' Jfoo. 50, South Frurth, next to Chefnut Greet, t hi
oppolite the Friends' Meeting. m<
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or- an
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelt) durable, not to be injured by the weather, bo
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of an
colouring, neatn«fs and mafterjy execution, has
scot been equalled by George Rutter and Co. in
FLAGS and DRUMS in
Fnrnilhed with all possible dispatch, on the most of
reafonarble terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck-
cts, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that ; u
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist mailer of hi? pro'efiion.
Mr. Gvllaof.r, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters hinifelf
that proteffional pun&uality, and report
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wilplealcto« .11 at his Painty
ng Rooms* §6w may ,5.
NOTICE. d
Pl S. Gentlemen in town and
fcoantry, wiihing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a malierly manner, will no
tioubt feel themfelve* obliged lor the kind cau ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trull felf- r
flattering advertisements but examine the work
executed by both parties ——One view will fat if- 1
fy them where the fupcriority -ies,—fave thefpoil- J
in* of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—apd
discover the rcquifites for the contra&ing talents r
of Henry Frajley. at Germantown may \Q.
Tea WarilHouse, c d
OrrOSlT* THI FO*T OFFICt.
THE Subscriber returns her fin cere thanks for e
the "enerou 4 - encouragement (he ha* experien- a
ced since her commencement in business, begs leave c
to acquaint her Friends and the Public, that (he has
received a fiefli supply of all kinds of Tea from the [
late arrivals at New-York, &c. and it will be her v
cohftawt eupeayour to merit their future support. — r
She Uin dully ex negation of receiving a large fup
p'v of g,wod Coffee. 1
" ■ SARAH EATON. e
may 30 tuvfßt z
Very Great Bargains, ]
CONSIS INGof Tabic Linen, Scotch and ,
India Muslins, now felling off and well ,
worth the attention of Houfcktepera to make (
puichafe ef —Enquiie of ; i
1 bom as Randall, 1
No. 88 Spruce-Jlrret. •
may i? |_
The following Certificates of ,
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITED STATES '
STANDING on th» Books of the treasury, were
forwarded for Lofcdon by the (hip William
Penn, Cap'"" JoE'b, which hath beeß captured,
and the Certificates foppefed to be 1011, viz:
3164. 82. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward (»iddy, of Ihredrem, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June i, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,071. .
goal. If. Six per Cent. Stock, tn the name »f
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797- No. 1J196.
3610. s°- Deferred Debt, in the name of Will-'
iam Manning, ofOrnifby, in the eounty of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797- No.
10199- i
>9183. 71. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
' of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour flrect,
London, Widow, dated Odober 31 1797. No.
lißao. *
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap.
plication is intended to bemadi- at the f.iid office of
jhe I'reafury of the United Stat ,*,—and all per
sons concerned aredefired to tak notice.
ALSO—IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen lhares Storkof the Bankof UxitedStates in
thename of William Manning,of Ormfby,coun
ty ot Norfolk, Ei.gland, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January I, 1797-
No. 15981. 1.5083, Z5984.
Fortbe renewa; of w l '.i:n,application is meant to
De made to the said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons concerned therein arc deGred to
. take notice;
* JN. KAUGHAN.
Philadalphia, may 4. \t>ir
llie following Certificatesof Shares
IN the North American Land Company, (landing
on the Books df said Company in the name ol
Daniel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlefcx, England—viz. No. 4151, representing
1309610 13105, ten lhares—No.lls0 —13066t0
13075, ten (harts—No. 2145—1305610 13065,
ten (hares—No. 1148—"J°9 to lls>*.ten lhares
No. 4547 —1:471 to 11480—Amonntir.g to
Forty Shares, vrere forwarded for London by the
lh:p William Pe-.n, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loft; for the r«
; ncwal of which, applicnion will be made to tht
Board of th« said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
injy I
fOA SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
good coachman, an cxcelleffi waiter, and
>a* been accullomed to matketing for a lamily--
hie a«ea!boi:t thirty two year-. For fu ther parti
coUrs, apply tt the olTi<«*f this Gaz«Uc.
' rnfy 15. 5
NCiW LANDING*
Ffbm on board the (hip Four Friends, and for sale
at the St«re« of ry
JESSE Iff ROBERT WALN,
A cargo of Havanna Molafles. r
june 13 5 n hi
—r ito:
The Cargo ot the Ship Nathaniel Bay lay, captain ow
Cambfll, from Jamaica, will commence landing
TO-MORROW, at South-street Wharf.
Sugars of Prime Quality in Hhds.
High proof Rum.
FOR SALE BY
Peter Blight,
Who also offers for Sale,
A choice parcel of ift and 41* 1 proof Bran
dy in Pipes.
Port Wine in Pipes, Hhdi. and Quarter ca&s
Madeira in Pipes
Old Arrack.
June I j §ifcodti3jy^_
London Particular Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of a superior quality, fit for imrae
mediate use ; and CLARET in cases.
roa SALE B7
Michael Connor,
No. 102, corner of Second and Dock streets.
June 9. § __
Now Opening,
AtWiLiiAMM'LAWJ Saddle Manufaftory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general aflortment of Horfensan's J
Pistols, dire A from the Manufacturers in London, th
ALSO ON HAND, lh
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light Hi
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va- ad
lices, Saddle Bag-s, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather at
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
The following Certificates ,
OF Funded Debt an J Bank of United States cu
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Countefa of Leicester Packet, in the nth M
month, 1797. which vessel has been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to b« lofL
4000 dollars per cent. Stock, (landing on the
books of the Treasury, in the name of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th,'96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of United States r "
in the name of Miller, Hart 8c Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. dated the ift day ol
of January, 1707 J
Por the renewal of which certificates, applica- *!
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the
Treasury of the United States, and at th* Bank of CI
United States ; of which all persons interested
therein, are desired to take notice. n
JOHN WARDER. ' h
Philadelphia, J me. a 6, 1998. si
aaw3m it
This day Publijlied,
ANDfOaSALE,AT
Wm. Young's Book-store, ti
No. 52, Chefnut, corner of Second fltrect,
On jnt ■uiovtn Paptr, witb f.Ugant Engravings, ®
Dedicated ta tht Phesidknt of the United f.tates, j
The Studies of Nature, j<
Translated from th'- French of
James Henry Bernfrdin de St. Pierre,
By henry hunter, d. d. .
'"P'HIS very ingrmicut ii.ttreltiog and inttruSive r
X werk has fines its firft publication, gone c
through four I'uc'ctffive imprefßons, under the an- t
thor's immediate infpeiftion j besides a variety of '
printed editions in different part, of the European
continent. k
No book displays a more sublime theology, in
culcates a pur.r morality, or breathes a more ar
dent and eipanfilje philanthrophy. St.Pierre ena '
bles us to contemplate this universe with other
' eyes ; has furnilhed new arguments to combat I
' athtifm J has established, beyond the power of I
: contradiction, the do<strine of a univerfalprovi- 1
5 d.nce, has excited a warmer interull in favor of , 1
: suss.ring humanity, and has discovered sources, .
' unknown before ot moral and mtelle&ual enjoy
" ment. ]
The avidity with which the clergy and other I
learned charaAersin New-England, have purchaf- I
ed the EngliGi edition of this delightful pel form- 1
ance, and the opinion entertained by them ; and
warranted by experience, that although written
before the " *ge of Reason," a part »f it con
-1 taint a more solid and compleat refutation of it,
1 than any thing publiihed finer, are perhaps a fuffi
c cient recommendation of the Stud es of Nature ;
in which the Botanill, the natural and chrillian
Philofophcr, the friend of .rder and government
.. are equally interested, and by whieh they will be,
equally gratified.
As no pains nor expence have been spared in
procuring suitable paper and able artists, to render
s the work worthy ef tht public ; and as the Sub
fcribers have expressed their approbation of it, the
e publilher flatters himfelf, that gentlemen, who on
™ account of the bad paper and print of fimi Ameri
• can editions, give generally the preference to the
Eaglifh, w ill hooor this with a companion, before
J" they purchase.
te' The Naval Gazetteer ;
Being a compleat Geographical Dictionary, contain
if ing a full and accurate account, alphabetically arrang
»t cd, of all the Countries and islands in tbe known
world ; shewing their latitude, foundings, and station
1-- for anchoiage: with a particular description of the
r _ several Bays, Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Cur
0> rents, Gulphs, Harbors, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivets, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals, Sound#,
Straits, Tides, Variation of the Compass, ftc. To
gether with a particular relation ot the-fhjpe andap
: ' pearance at sea, of the several Headlands, Isthmuses,
°' Peninlulas, Poins, Promonto ies, and whatever is of
use 0' importance to the Marter, Pilot, Commander
P. or Seaman of any (hip or vessel, in navigating the wa
°* try element.
T " Also, Comprehending
Ample dirrftions for failing into or ouiof the differ
ent Ports, Straus and Harbor of the four quarters of
m the world ; and for avoiding dangers on the various
n " and extended coast ;in which more than twelve thou
;CS sand diftintt names and places, &c. are treated of and
7- ex r lained. With a correal set of Charts, 2 vols. Bvo.
By the Rev, JOHN MALHAM.
to This has been p.onounctdthe most ufelul and
the chcapeft book publiihed in America. Itwasun
dertaken frveral years since, under the auspices of
Lord Sandwich v.hile he was at the head of the Ad
miralty of England, and from which every assist.
ance necessary to complete so arduous a work, was
~ readily furnilhed, but it never made its appearance
CS until last year. The favor it obtained wuh Masters of
ng veflels and other gentlemen concerned in Navigation
ol induced the publimer to prepare this edition wherein
id. the American Ports, Harbors, &c. have been cor reded
np by a geotleman of great abilities, and exicnfive infor
mation on the fubjetl.
()S may ai. «aw 4 w
r t " Prison Manufaftory.
the ■
ed, FOR SALE,
r * At the Prison of the City and County of Philadcl-1
the phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to aody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
r Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shocmakeis and Sadltrs Thread
Also Marble, suitable for. currier's table,
tomb and head itones, hearths, chimney pieces
platforms, (labs, lacia, window heads, fills, &c.
s * All which may he had on reasonable terms,
an Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
m " Orders from a dillancc, direAtd to Danrel Tho
mas, agent f<rr the be attended to.
f DeccmlerS. " m^i6m
Collector's Office, t
e Pinladclphia, May i<» I '
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Custom-House, on Friday, the tif- ! [N
teenth of June, 1798, the £»l!owing *ner
chandize, which remain in the Cullom-Houfe
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the ■
11 owners or confignCes thereof:
K (XH) eight half faggots of steel
(TD) 10a one bale pirthweb
(FL) a quantity of steel
one cafe lamps , wi
C&C one cafe bobbin
(W) one small box medicine **'
'* AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttene
[D] 1a 3 l^rce a ' es S' rthwGb
[VH] 100 one ditto ditto
(XT 200 one ditto ditto I
(No mark) eight jars olives
1 (ditto) one bundle fla»es
f LS3 one small box locks
EJohn DavidJ one small box of plated Ware
Harry ToulminJ two cases of books. A
may 1 ? dtr?T A
United States. 1
Pennsylvania DiflriS. j
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT in pursuance of a Writ to me dire&ed,
from the Hon. Richard Peters, Esq. Judge of W
». the Di»ri<ft Court of the United States, in and for
the Pennsylvania Dillritfl, will be exposed to pub- A
ht lie sale et the Custom-House, in the City of Pnil- A
a- adejphia, on Friday, the *Oth day of June, inft.
er at 12 o*clock at noon
4 Bags of Coffee, and
5 Hampers of Porter. A
, The fame haying been libelled against, profe
c9 cuted and condemned as forfeited in the said court*
er William Nichols, Martha).
th Marfhai'i Office, )
d, June sth,'9B. j
By virtue of a deciee of the honorable the high court
he of Chancery of Maryland, the fubferiber will fell
je at Public Sale, on the premiles, on Monday, the
6. «sih of June next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
es r T" I H AT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
n, X No. 53, sad part of No. $4, late ,the property
ay of Nicholas Slubv, merchant of this city, situated on
Thamea-llreet, in that part of Baltimore city, called
a . Fells-Point, containing 38 fquare*perches, with all
he the buildings and improvements thereon. Theie arc
r ereftcd on this valuable property, several large and
j commodious brick Warehouses, capableof contain
inglrom ij to to,ooo barrels of flour, with a frame
(hed adjourning thereto, fufficicntly capacious to
hold 1000 hogihesd of Tobaccos in perfeft fafety
from the weather. From this well known property
is extended into the deepest water in this harbor, an
~ extensive and well conflra&ed wharf,bounding on ihe
water 600 feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing Ihips of any burthen at the lowed tides. From
the many advantages this propetty is known to polfefs,
it it efte'emed equal if rot superior, in point of com.
mereial benefit, to any in this city, and mull be a de
' Arable ob ea to those inclined to purchase so valuable
tS ' an estate. It » onneceffary to fay more on this sub- ;
jett, as those intending to purchale, will have an op- •
portunitv of viewing the premises previous to the .
day of sale
The terms on which the above property 11 fold,
are, that ihe purchaser (hall give approved nego iable
ive notes, with security to the truflee f.tr the paym.-nt of
JUe or e half the purchase money with inteteft, within
au- three months, and the residue with interest, withui
of fix months trom the day of sale.
; an SAMUEL MOALE.
may a 8. dtayiije,
I hereby give Notice, !
na '"T'O atl my creditors, that I have applied by pe
her X tition to the judges of th* court ol common
bat pleat for the county of Philadelphia, 3tt heir fef
of fion in June term m thit month, praying that they <
>vi- would extend to mc the benaflt ot an a<s 0! Gen
■of sral Aflembly its thi. Commonwealth, palled the
:es, 4th day of April, J79*. entitled "An Ad pro
oy- viding that the perlon of a debtor (ball not be lia
ble to imprisonment for debt after delivering up
her his eflatc for the benefit of his crrdunrs, uolefs he
Saf- hath been guiky of fraud pr embexilement," and i
rm- that the said court hath appointed Monday the ]
and 25th day of June inflant, at 10 o'clock, P. M. to 1
; ten hear me and my creditors atfuch place as the court
011- (hall be held, where they may attend if they think
r it, proper. JOHN GRAHAM.
iffi- june 11. §'*s
ke ; " FOR SALE,
tian At the Store of Jesse fcf Robit Wjik,
'™ t On Spruce (Ireet Wharf,
< Port Wine in pipes, hhds. & qr. calks
din Lisbon Wine in pipes and quarter caflc9
ider And a few pipes of excellent Madeira Wine
>ub may 16. eot f
o'on Joseph Ricardo,
ier i_ this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
the V-J P e *"ty for the benefit of hi 9 Creditors, te James
fore C* Fibber, Samuel W Filher, and Thomas Wllfon.
All persons who have demands are re
queued to furnilh their accounts without delay—
ajn- and those indebted to make immediate pa/ment to
anr- the Subscribers, Affignecs.
own James C. Samuel IV. Fisher.
ition No. 13, Arch Street,
the march 31 4tawtf
C rII Military Colours,
ind., PAINTED ON SlLK—bt
p T George Rutter y Co.
us Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
TN a llile which wjll endure the hardlhipa of the
ncr X weather without injury, and which for neatness
5 wa " and exaAitudc of colouring cannot be furpafled in
this city.
iffcr . FLAGS and DRUMS
:rs of Furnilhed with dispatch, «n the mod moderate
rious terms.
' h a ° o u j Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
g vo# fire buckets, &c. accotnplilhed in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter pledget
nd himfelf from 10 years experience iu this city will
is un- meet the entire approbation of his friends and the
e, of public.
: Ad- In the Military Line,
alfift. variety of specimen's may be seen at their
' w " Painting Room, Norris's Court, back of the Haw
ir " nce f Library,
ration
;:£$ NOTICE.
iofor- T TAVING observed an adtertifemert of C.
il Gullager, in terms derogatory of our pro
-4w fcffional abtHtics, we have to requeil the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
• decide upon the merits of sach by a comparison ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by tlaem to invalidate the ta
, , . lents of ellablifhcd artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrossing that business which
their profeflional knowledge in no wife entitles
. them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
s govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager- in every branch of por
. ' trait and ornamental painting, and ihew the necef-
Gty of judging for themselves.
'• * N. B. In future no attention will be paid to tJ»j
!' felf-flattering advertisements of Mr G.
ion at pcrfon wUhiog a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Gio. RoTTia and
1 ®" Co. NorriV-Csurt, or Hawai FRAItET, Ocrmas
town. §6w may 8.
treasury department,
MARCH i, 1708.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the AS of Congress passed on the sixth day of JHily one thousand seven hundredand
ninety-seven, entitled " An AA laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , >ndtbe
Ad passed on the fifteenth day of Oec.mber, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-feven,^entitl ed
«• An A4t to poflpone for a liaiittd time the commencement of the duties imposed by the Att eßti
tied •• An Acllaying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , that fromandafterthe
firfl day of July enfrsing, tho several Stamped Duties hsfeafter enumerated, will be levied andcoMec
ted throughout the United States.
For every (kin or pieceof Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Papsr, upon which Ihall be
written or printed any or either of the inftruments-or writingsiellowiag—to wit:
Anv Certificate of Naturalization, •- - - - - S
Any Licence to praflice.or Certificate of the or registry of
any Counfellor,Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proflor.in any Court of the
United Statei, - - - - " 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Ctfurts of the United States
for one of the laid Offices, (hall I'o far as relatea to the payment of the
duty aforefaid, be a fuffitient adrniflion in all the Couru of the United
States, for each and every ofthefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or airtfcortryof the United States
(except for lands graniedfor military fervicts) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) s
Any Charter-Party, Bottrniry, or Refpondentia Bond, - 1
Any Receipt or dil'fharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or e
ther teftatnentary instrument, or for any (hare or part of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force of any statute of diftributi«ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the perfbn deceased.the amount whereof ft all be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - ■ y
When the amount thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundrod dollars, ... jo
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Any Policy of Insurance or lnftrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, vefiel or
goods insured from one diftrifl to another in the United States, * ij
From the United States to atly foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - ij
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - ,
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnilh for the use of the United States or some particular (late, - . ;o
Any Bond, bill (ingle or pesial,foreign or inland bill of exchange, promissory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrafi, made to or with the United States or any (late, or for their
uferefpeilively, - " • - ••
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollar*,. • to
IfaboTeone hundred d 'llars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, s o
And if above one thousand dollars, .... - 7J »
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes tball be fubjeit to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid —vra. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and net exceeding five hundred dollit s, ,o
If above five hundred dollars and uot exceeding one thousand dollars, 40
If above one thousand dollar., - - - " 30
Any Notes iflued bv the banks now established, or that may hereafter be ellab
lifhcd within the United States, other than the no'os of I'uch of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpedlively, according to
the following scale. - - - ' *
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar,
On ell notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, y 0
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, • " ... 1
On ail toes above five hundred doHars, , a
Any Protest or other Notarial *(5 l, - • " _ 45
Any Letter ef Attorney, except for an invalid penfios, or to obtain or Tell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, • - 'J
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback ef Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - ' " * " r
For five hundred dollars ani not exceeding two thousand dollars, t
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
\ny note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diftriiSt to another diftrifl of the United States, nart being in the
fame State, * " " to
If from the United States to any foreign pert or place, - - 15
\ny Inventory or Catalogue of auy furniture, geods or effe&s, ttnde in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattela distrained for •
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officeT,) 50 j
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Gomitany, ef a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exce«ding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ... 25
If under twenty dotUrs, at the rate of ten ants for one hundred dollars.
The dutiesaforelaid will becolleSed and rtceived by the Supervisors, Infpeflors aud other Officer*
of Infpeition, in the several DiHriSs Surveys and Divifiona of the United states, a»d by such other
persons as shall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diflrids for
that purpose. J
r r lit..
1 The Supervisors of the fsveral Dlftri&s will, prior to the firft day of Jyly ensuing, and as soon as
may be praaicable, marie or stamp, without fee orreward, any quantities or parcel* of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, oa payment of the said duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.»y at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by la.w, by application to any Supervilor, lirfpttSor, Officer of Infpe&ien,
' or other psifon appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflricls.
GIVEN undtr my J/.iuJ, at Philadelphia
s the day and year alovemCHtioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice if hereby given,
THAT by an aa of Congrcfs pafled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a<a pafl°ed on the 6th day of July 1797. en
titled " An afl laying duties on (lamped vel
" lum, parchment and paper."
The stamp duties on debentures or eertiG
cates for the drawback of Customs er duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpeilers refpeflively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur- I
chafe atone time or procure to be {Umped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parcbmentor Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars er upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or cxpenfe on account as the
price of Paper ; but for (lamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional prce will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
mint, or Two Hundred Cents sot- each (kin of
Vellum of medium size, «hich may be furnish
ed at the expense of the United States and pro*
portiona,lly for anylefier quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and ye ir abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To te Let,
(And poffelSon given on the I ii of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
11 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and (tables, at present in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
aptil 1. $
The Co-partnership of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE TIRM OF
Joseph Davidson £s? Co.
IS this day difTolved by mutual confcnc, all those
having claims against said firm, are defirod to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised toftttle the affairs of rhe concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. ThcStores at the corner Market and
(fourth Streets are now to be let.—Enquire of Jo
seph Daridlon. April «6 "vrfciam
TO BE SOLD,
4°>939 acres of Land.
IK Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Ron.
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years Ago for
five fhiliing* per acre ; patented early in 1787,ex
eept 370 c acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The trad
is between the Ohio and Monongahela. very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. £
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New between tke northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Safquehanna
now, or late in the townships of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, from their quality and situation*
are a very desirable object for any man whotirean«
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will \ e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 11, $
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 920 acres, elmoft all of which it
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenteof the late
Egrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixili d.
into five farhis, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
Th r are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three acres—Tlye dwelling house
is a vary convenient one.andja fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 150© finsbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Tress, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of thfe place. Us Gtuation is abous 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and I a from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incaih, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. ?8, Chefnut treeu,
. FeWuary». eodti