of t|je Kntteu AMD Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Number 1735.J
Xfte <sa*ette.
' PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, April 2.
In the observer, of Dec. 31, a paper of
the firft refpetlsbility, are the following pa
ragraphs refptftiug the threatened invasion
of England.
"We pledge'the veracity for which the
public have given us credit, and which we
(hall fedijloufly endeavor to preserve, that
the armament with which France threatens
to overwhelm this country, does not, nor
for a confidcrable time cannot, comprise a
force worthy our serious alarm.
It is dated, but we know erroneously, to
consist of sixty thousand men. The friends
of Buonaparte are particularly desirous of
its increase, not to attempt the deflru&ion
df this country, but the emancipation, or
at Hart to change the government of iheir
ov.<m Buonaparte who to the gasconades
againfl Britain anfweied not, is the constant
afTociate of the dire&ors Barras and Neuf
chateau, who are opposed by the sanguina
ry promoters of terror, Reubel 8c Mtrlin ;
Lepaux, who is not a man of business, fluc
tuates between the great parties, without
feting attached to either. Barras, whose
genius and enterprize is equal to any at
chievinent, and who is the favorite of the
faif, loses much power by a reputed impet
uosity which overleaps discretion, and which
his adherents, amongst whom are comprised
the Orleans party, dread will injure them :
but this like other parties Barras uses not
for those after whom they are called—he
looks to himfclf, and conceives his perman
ent greatness built on the glory of his friend
Buonaparte, whose supreme power he would
establish as the means of his individual con
sequence,—The ascendancy which the min
illers of vengeance, Merlin and Reubel,
have acquired, may have oecafioned Barras
to look to a second situation.
" We have the most undoubted authority
for Bating the present situation of affairs in
the French metropolis to be such, that im
mediate and important changes are inevita
ble ; each of the hollile faftions croud Pa
ri? with their partizans, and under pretext
of augmenting the levies in the Western
Provinces, draw from the frontiers towards
the capital, such corps as they consider af
feded to their interefts. The ar
my in general is devoted to Barras and his
colleagues. Reubel and his sanguinary as
fociate have a decided majority in the citi
zens of Paris ; indeed, that Buon
aparte, from considerations to his personal
fafety, was prevented from appearing in the
public ftretts.
" The order of the Direftory for recall
ing into the public service the frigates and
smaller veffek lent to the Merchants as pri
vateers, had not been carried into effeft
neither does it appear confident with the
purpose or ability of the French government
to make any efficient exertion for the re-es
tablishment of their mariqe."
j-
EXTRACT.
The real state of France is this. She is in
open hofliiity with the Eli'lifh nation on ac
count of their predominant maritime power.
France and England are the modern rival pow
ers, Rome and Carthage—the one determined
on the reduflion of the ether's power. This ia
not a new competition j it has fubfif) d for cen
turies. The inveterate enmity of republican
France tswjrd. Great-Britain is but a continul.
tion of a ipirit of rivalry which has appeared,
under the monarchy, from the Noiman conquest
—sometimes a little moderated by peace and
commerce, but never extin<3. The victories
of the French armies have revived a projedl «f
invasion, which his before been often contem
plated and as often laid aside.
But jh« plan of tieftroying the power of
Great Britain, by drying up the sources of her
wealth, is now pushed further than any of the
mwiartbs of France ever dared to attempt No
king, even the mod ahfolute, ever ventured to
enter the houses of private citizens and seize
Bruifh made goods. No despot in Europe could
accomplish such an a£).
Nor would any of the monarchs of Eur»pe
dare to go so far in contempt of all the rules of
nations, as to violate any neutral flag and make
it confifcable, merely for carrying the of
a particular nation. Defpotifni like this can
not be axercifed by kings—it is reserved exclu
sively for Frenchmen.
But; this propofitiori is general—'it extends to
confifc'ate the vessels of Sweden and Dmraark,
as well as ef the United States—yet the Swedes
and Danes, have formed no league with Great-
Britain, to offend France. This is nothing hut
a pretext. The real truth is, France is deter
mined on wounding England, through her com
merce ; Ike therefore cannot refpe<9 our trade,
whi' h takes 2 or 9 millions sterling per annum
of Britilh goods. To be at war with British
man nfa flu res, it is necessary to be at war witn
American commerce ; and this would have
been the cafe, if the treaty had never existed.
AN ECDOTE OF DENNIS',THE CRITIC.
Amongst the Angularities of this learned
felf-tormentor, he either hatrd or affefted to
hate a fun .so much, that he either grew
outrageously angry, or quitted the company
whenever a pun happened to be let off in his
presence.
With this well known prejudice against
him, the wits of his time constantly availed
(herefelvei . One night in particular, at
Button's, Steele wanted to make a party
without Dennis, though he could not de
cently do it, as Dennis was in the Coffee
houfe at the fame time ; ruminating for some
time how to get rid of him, be at last ob
served Rowe fitting at the opposite fide of
the fame box, when coming op to Dennis ke
afktd him aloud, what was "the matter with
Urn T—The matter with me,' fays Dennis,
PHILADELPHIA:
what da you mean by that !' Why,' fays
Steele, • I did not know ; but you appear
to me to be like an angry waterman ; you
look one way, and Rowe another."
Thiswas enough for ourangry critic, who
immediately bounced up. and left'the roorp,
thundering his anathemas against all puns
and miserable punsters.
ON THE SUBJECT OF ARMING.
From the Columbian Centinel.
To the writer of the piece Jtgned " A REPUB
LICAN," in ihelafl Chronicle.
Sir,
I AM aware that small indeed is the num
ber, who are to be misled by the artful and in
cendiary mode which you choose to adopt, in
or d r o roul'e the oppofitim of the people a
gainfl the in ended plan of arming, as it is call
ed. Our countrymen are too enlightened nor
to fee through thefhallozv artifice, and are too
much attached to tkuth not to <\t(<p'\fefalfhood.
Yet it may h- of nfe to expose your misftate
mentof farat.d your falfe inferences.
Youprofcfa to enquire into the cause, which
urges ws to arm for felf defence and fay, "by
'lie late arrrtf of the French directory, all Bri
tish manufactures are liab e to capture, found on
board neutral fhipsand then, as if you had
r c ted the whole decree, and that decree the on
ly cause, you ask with an air of triumph, " will
the people of America involve themselves in
all the calamities of war, for the purpose of
protecting Hi itifh manufaiWes ?" Now this,
Mr. Republican, is rather t e fliwfy ; had you
not known that the truth woul not anfweryour
purppfe, you would have mentioned, as an im
portant pari of the decree, " that every vejftl
laded with the produce or men hinaize of Eng
land, or any of iis pojjeffions, is decreed a law
ful prize, whoever be the proprietors of said
produce, &c " —and then, if you had the reel
ings of an American, you would have alked no
other cause for the intended plan of defence. If
a merchant (hip with a valuable cargo of foreign
.ioods, and only a single bale of English manu
failures, or a firgle hogshead of rum, the pro
duce of a British Island, ft o»ld reSft a privateer
• f the dii edlory, woul 1 it be in defence of bri
tjh manufaSures ; or to prevent the arbitrary
condemnation of a valuable fliip and cargo ? Is
not the number of vessels rtgnlarly employed in
importing British manufactory small indeed,
compared to the humber of such as would be
condemned under this- decree, for having acci
dentally on board some trilling article, the man
lafaflure of England ? For French patriotism
will no doubt ftnfllv conform to thefpirit as
well as the letter of this decree.
But. Sir, y u well know that it is rot solely
i . consequence of this arret', a birrary and un
warrantable as it is, that we re called upon to
arm. The hostile condudt of the 'iretSlory to
tnis country, is of an older date , you, fir, in
0n..: on with others, have long fern the viola
t on ot the in. f! •' mn treaties ; you know that
the ports of France are thrnnge with American
veffeis, carried in under the most wicked pre
tences ; you know that condemnation follows
almofl every capture ; you know that the
wharves and streets of Bourdeaux, Nantz, Ha
vre, &c are crow fed with American seamen
thrown out of employ; and dependent on their
eon&ils, for the means of returning to their fam
ilies ; you know that scarce a aper ifiues from
our prefles that is not filled vith a mehncholy
iifl of captures and condemnations, in the
Fr nch Weft In ies and in Spanish ports obse
quious lo tlit will of the directory ; and in ma
ny inftancps attended with circumstances of ill
ulage to the captain and seamen, which a state
of war would not juftify, and a savage would
b v.fh to iriflifl. A
You hnow that these things not only daily
take place abroad, but'aggrefiions equally hor
rible, are brought to our d'>or»: we fee our val
uable homeward bound merchantmen captured
within view of their destined ports ; we fee our
mariners, after encountering the perils of a
long and boiflerous voyage from the rcmoteft
parts of the other hemisphere, and within a few
leagues of our shores, dragged to some of the
French poflefiions, and there turned out of their
vefiels with the mortification of feeing the valu
able property of the merchants, and their own
hard earnings condemned for want of a " role
d equipage," or some pretence equally unwar
rantable. You know rh«t within the part year,
a valuable English ship and cargo were burnt
within thejunfdifli m of these Sates, and with
in the familuary of the harbor of Charleftan.
(Whatever you may think, its being English
does not lefien the insult.) Unhappily, a thou
sand other instances of aggrefiion might be ad
ded.
The stagnation of onr commerce, and the
consequent partial distress introduced into our
large toivns, is the result of these complicated
outrages Knowing these things to be true ;
hww, fir, can you have the effrontery to tell the
people of America, that to arm is only to pro.
teiS British m<nu:i(slory. Who of theChron
i.-le readers, with all the pains you have hereto
fore taken to mislead them are foola enough to
believe you. You fay to arm means the fame as
to make war. You k.iow, fir, that it has been
the invariable policy of our administration, to
avoid war ; you know tr.at «ve y true American
inuft advocate such policy, and it is in vain that
you attempt to make people believe, that those
who have the m ill to lufe are ad ocates tor war.
It is pertciAly natur. I that you, and othep of
the fame sentiments wish you, when you fee the
crtfis to whi. h your blind adulation of the French
and the iriilreprcfentations of your piity have
brought your country ; whrn papers like the
Chronicle h-ve jufiified alike every decree iflu
ing from the dire«£lory. I fay it is natural that
before the evil arrives, you should attempt to
throw the odnim of making war (Oiould such
be the confequerice of our system ot defence)
on the admimflration, and thus parry ihe resent
ment ot an iujuied t eople. Tou know, fir, al
though you itifinuate the contrary, that our go
vernment do not \rifh a war ; but if the direc
tory, because we arm our merchantmen and for
tify our coafls, to prevent in f .ture loine of the
aggrefiions I have belme re- ited, choo'e o eilj
to make war, I trull there is not an American
jvho will flirink from the danger ; for if there
ever was a cafe in hich a nation uould be j un
ified in rtpe ling f>rce by force it woul t be then.
We might then lay our hands on out hearts as
we did in 17 75, and dppeul to Heaven
The ptoplewill not*' involve themselves in a
debt of 40 or merely to aid the Bri
tish {merchants and manufacturers Nor will
they moitgage their farms for a box of ribbons;
nor wall the Lynn shoemakers become fubjell
to a heavy ttxtofupport the (hoeci*kers of £ng-
- By John Fenno, NO
land." But the people of America, fir, be
lieve me, will with the fame uianimity and
ci U! age which they difpL-yed in lhaking oft our
colonial f'jbjeflion to Great Britain, repel the
attempts of France or any other ruti >n to re
duce us again to the condition of colonies;
thty have no more inclination to become French
cnlonifts than they had to continue Britilh colo
nics j and as in the one inrtance Providence
crowned their virtuous efforts with success—so
ftlould the occalion arrive there is little rea/bn t»
fear that the fame prowess wosld terminate as
gloriously lor our country. As to the 50,c00,"e0
lir, the for which we once contended was
lo great, that wifely we did not count the cost ;
so I presume the cafe contemplated, no merce
nary confidcration would prevenl our vigorous
ly defending those rights which we once tho't
ourselves bound to hand inviolate to our poller
ity.
The yeomanry to whom yeu so often address
yourlelf, know that whether their produce lays
c.n hand liecatife the country is at war, or be
cause the merchants are deterrad from shipping
it for fear of French captures, the consequence
to them is the fame. If our merchants are al
lowed so arm there will be fooie chance at lealt
that Ibme may g» clear.
You alk, will the sailors enter on board A
merican armed veffe », and fubjeil themselves
to the loss of their limbs to help a gang of Bri
tilh importers. Sailors, I fay, will mere read
ily enter i n bo rd vcffrls so armed as to give
them some chance of escaping capture and im
prisonment, than on board unprotected veffcls,
where there is every probability of capture, and
an absolute ceitainty of ill ulage.
You fay the Tories have for many years been
anxious to destroy the friend/hip between France
an J the United Stafs, and that the liritilh trea
ty was predicated and adopted on this princi
ple. I was lofs to know who you meant
by Tories until vog explained by meatii ning
WASHING l O'M and ADAMS. Andthele,
fir, ire the men you dare to call Tories ; and
can you believe thai any body is ftupU enough
to liflen to your calumnies against such men as
these? If they are Tories, who would not be
proud of the title ? No praise of m ne can ex
alt them above the high rank they hold in the
estimation of the virtuous and good in all coun
tries ; and be assured that no Jlnnder of yours
can rob them of the smallest portion of their
well earned fame. You fay, Mr. Adams wa»
tainted with the glare and pomp of St. James's.
! This absurd cant is not novel from the mouth
:of political fanatics. Why was he not tainted
I with the much greater glare of the court of Ver
sailles ? We fee him there with his excellent col
league Mr. Jay, baffling the intrigues of the
count de Vergenn¥3 and the more dangerous
opposition of Dr. Franklin, until by their
firmnefi alone we obtained the acknowledgment
of our independence, the enlargement of our
territory, our right to the fifheries and other
bleflings which that instrument secured to us.
Your observation on Mr. Adams's advance
ment of his son is ton scurrilous almolt to be
noticed, if some fallhood was not blencdd with
it which (hould he expo r ed. He did not give
his son diplomatic honors ; hit talents had bro't
him forward to the notice of the late President,
and HE appointed him relident in Holland i he
has been removed fiom thenee to Berlin, as it
was important to renew our treaty with the king
of Pruflia, which was near expiring. Who
more pr-per to execute that million than Mr.
Adams, who was nearer that court than anyo
j th r public minister of the United States : and
! without disparagement to any of our foteign
! ministers, it may be truly said, that his coiip
j try cannot boast a more faithful, upright and
■ abiefervant in the diplomatic lilt than our pre
; lent miriilt rat rferlin. You fay thai within
two years Mr. Adams and his son have received
80, coo dollars*. It is a fuflicierit answer to
this inlinuation that the President receives ?he
fame, and no greater compensation than the for
mer President, and the mimfter at Berlin the
firns and n" greater than any other HiiniUer ple
nipotentiary.
The conclusion of your piece being on
ly a repetition of the jingle about British
manufa&ures, yeomanry, &c. I (hall pass
over.
And now, fir, I shall take leave of you
for this time. If you are not so hardened
in the habit of reviling every thing that is
good, and so addifted to falfe rcprefenta
tions as to take them for true—let me alk
you to thinlc seriously of the part you are
afting. The time is approaching and per
' haps is not far distant, when the people will
look around them to find out their real ene
mies. These they will soon discover to be
people of your description, who with the
words patriot and liberty in their mouths,
are inceflantly employed in deceiving them.
They will discover that s fo-wer of feditien
is.no republican, and that he who seeks to
divide the people when unanimity is essential
to thei£ polit'cal existence, whatever he may
call himfelf, is a villain. MARCUS.
* This is a genuine Jacobin Chronicle faifliood.
TbePrcfiJe'iit has received no more than h'S filar j
as.Vice-Pfefident, and Hrefiden', during that pe
riod, and Mr. J- Q_ ' dams his fa'ary as r.-inider
reCdent whi 111 in Holland, being fier thousand
five hundred dollars and as niiniflcr plenipot ntia
ry, an appointment madnhim by.che late Hrefident
the lawpf appropriation gives him
9000 dollars, aftd only half that sum as ari outfit
These calumniators afe about as good patriots, as
they are < rifhmaticiaris.
From the Middlesex (Con.) Gazelle.
Mr. Dunning,
The threat of the far tamed Lyon, that
through the instrumentality of newspapers
he would revolutionize Conne&icut, it ap
pearslie has began to put in execution, and
your Gazette has the honor of commencing
the projected operations. You williiiftant
ly perceive, that I refer to the extract of a
letter from a Gentleman in Philadelphia,
published in your lad number.—Order, de
cency, and truth are not more wounded in
that extract, .tjian reasonable ra«n would ex
peft, from a writer, fmartiiig under the oil
of Hickory, and goaded on by paflions in
flamed by disappointment, and the hope of
revenge. If, however, Lyon is resolved to
spit his venom upon us and occasion an uni
versal hydrophobia, it is time for men of
moderation to oppofc him, by unveiling his
artifices, and ex puling hismifreprefentationa.
i'i 9 Chefnut Street.
MONDAY EVENING, APRIL 2, 1798.
Party prfidudious bear the plain im
press of. partiality, deceit and diflortion.
None will be imposed on by them, but kin
dred fculs, and those who from their local
situations or habits have not intelligence of
what passes at this eventful day.
traS is the true and legitimate offspring, of
the affcciated club of diforganizers, who ex
ert themselves to bring the government of
this country into contempt,to palsy i'.s
efforts, to degrade its dignity, and to un
dermine and dellroy its cor.ftitution. It is
against the supporters of this palladium of
our fafety and happiritfs,—the men, who
determined to rfiove in their own sphere only
are equally resolved not to infringe upon the
power of others, that their vindi&ive, rel
iefs malice is ever exerted.
If resort be had to the principle, of hu
man nature, we find a constant diTpofition
to enlarge our own privileges, rights, pow
ers and pleasures, and to diminish the oppo
sing privileges, rights, powers, aud plea
sures of others.—lt is this principle that has
occasioned such a mifpenfe of money and of
time, in tie Federal Legiflnture. But ac
cefiions of force have been derived to it,
from other fourets- Originally, the hope
of escaping payment of debts jultly due to
Brftiftv creditors, made our louthern bre
thern warm patriots. The flour speculation
of Randolph (and would to God that was
the only one entered into tothe'injury of our
country) had a very republican effe<ft,'° ll him
and his party. To purfut 'he fubjedt would
be a talk both tiresome and invidisus. The
fame republican party Hill complain, of the
I extention of power by the executive, and
; that the part of Congreftf usually denomin
ated federal, are in a conspiracy against the
people, surrendering up the rights of the
popular branch of government, and volunta
rily committing suicide on their own powers and
privileges. This compliment from the sons
of liberty vi\\o tyrannize over their thousands of
Jlaves, is too opposite to human{nature, the
experience of mankind, ancLthi? obfrrvations
of the calm and patriotic, to deserve a feri
i ous refutation No,—it is the sincere de
' termination of men, who rci"p'e£t the -will of
the people as declared in the federal confti
! tution and who will not enlarge their own
powers at the expence of robbing the exe
cutive of the powers delegated to him, that
occasions th<- malevolent aspersions of the
j diforganizer.
I When offices are (hewn to be unconjiitu
: tionally and unnecejfctrily created, it will be
time to alarm the people, with the cry of
Governmental influence. —Would the Lyon
have no edablifhments,—neither army, na
vy, or minidcrs ?—Would he banish all ex
pences, and every appointment that will
occasion them ?—lf this is his objeft, mod
clearly he meditates the overthrow of gov
ernment. The enquiry ever mull be, whe
ther eftabliftiments are made unconjlitutionally
and unneceffitrily. The various edablifhments
of Government are the wheels on which it
moves. If they are not multiplied beyond
ptility, to diminish them is to cripple gov
ernment, and that this is the real objett of
many afairfpoken diforganizer, none but
the ignorant or demoniac will doubt.
The federal party in Congress,—the
champions of the federal constitution, are
the men whom the Lyon wou'd Itigmatize, as
friends to the Executive, and enemies to the
people.—Away with this idle' cant, that the
speaker himfeif does not believe.—ls it im
pofiible that men of understanding and hon
elty, should approve of governmental mea
sures ? One political opinion so reducible to
a Certain dandard that none but a fool or
villain can differ from the opinion formed by
by honed men ? Mud the man who supports
the executive, be an enemy to the people ?
The answer to these qutttions,—the reply
which every man of discernment not warped
by prejudice, by intcreft, or by influence
has anticipated is, No.
If then men of underdanding and hon
esty, may approve of the meatures of go
vernment ; if there is 110 standard to which
you can bring political opinions ; if an hon
ed man may approve ps the measures of the
Executive, what reason is there to brand
with dilgrace those who support the federal
executive ?
Are they not equally intereded in the pros
perity of our common country, as those who
exclaim against them ? Have they not from
their responsible situation, an additional mo
tive to fidelity ? Are not their property, fa--
milies, and friends all embarked in the federal
vessel, and wiH the enlightened mind fuf
peft that they mean to fink or destroy her ?
Shall the yellow tinge of a narrow suspicious
mind be transfnfed into their faces, and dis
color them ? But perhaps they want abili
ties and the Lyon's opportunities of infor
mation. Then, it is not unufua! for con
ceited men, who have an immoderately high
jpinion of themselves, to miltake the biff
ing of 3, tea-kettle for the roaring of the
ocsan. v>
I hardly expefted to hear, that a repug
nance to direßly tax the people.—and duties
on articles of bulk, fucfi as molasses, sugar
fait See. should be urged as a political fin
against the supporters of government. Would
the Letter writer, unless under the pressure
of imperious neceflity, sustain the federal
burden by direst afleffment, and in this, have
federal men- miftakea the willies and feelings
and interests oi : the people ?—ls it excep
i tiouable if a nexternal duty be resorted to
• at all.—to tax highly, bulky articles of
1 univerful consumption, which cannot easily
' evade the tax by being smuggled ? It is my
pride to refkft, that to such pitiful expe
i dients rauft the diforganizer! resort, to tar.
ni(h the reputation of federal men.—Topur.
sue the extraft through its labyrinths of
misrepresentation and falfe irtteirtinn, is a
tax of too little importance, to a mind, that
would not exert itfelf, except, where it is
necessary to guard thepublicagainfl delusion
That there areindividualsof very different
opinions on the political meafurcs of this
country and of the French Republic. of
information and integrity candor mwfl ad
mit. But that those wbo-defire to be called
the republican party, are the friends of
our country or its constituted authorities, I
sincerely cjueflion. They French Republi
cans , not American patriots,
To me it is no recommendation of them,
that they attempt to enlarge the power of
the houfeof representatives. In this country
every branch, of government is the popular
branch, the whole being of popular origin,
—and he who endeavours to take from one
branch and give to another, what the peo
ple have rtot given, is an enemy to the fe
deral conftitutiun-
That the disorganizing party are more
economical than federal men in the expendi.
ture of public money, is a misrepresentation
" g r °fs as a mountain, open, palpable."—
What is economy ? Is it merely a refufal to
grant or appropriate money ? No ; it is the
refufal to grant money causelessly. The dif
organizerswere not long fiitce very anxious
to incur expences, in opposing the Engiifh
—but at prefrnt would have their country
keep unprepared again ft the probable attacks
and depredations of the French This
is Economy ! ! !
An endeavour to continue friendfhip and
harmony with all mankind is extremely
laudable, if such endeavour is bottomed oil
the bails of philanthropy and public good>Sucli
endeavours however to prefervc hatjmony
with an insulting power, may betoo ceaflefs
ly and improperly exerted, to deferv c the
name of patriotism ; it may be carried so far
as to merit the appellation of folly, cowar
dice, and treason.
But does the Lyon really believe, that
the faction existing in our government, (he
unintermitted complaints against our admini
stration, the opposition to every meafure'of
federal men, the scurrilities condantly ven
ted against every public proceeding, and the
profufeadmiration of French dodlrines, prin
eiplesand proceedings, is the politic method
of conserving harmony witS the Fre.ich Re
public— Does he believe, that disunion and
disorganization at home is wifely adapted
to procure good '.reatment ? does he not
know, that the wily, intrigueing, ambitious
Frenchman laughs in his sleeve at his cre
dulity, and thanks his stars (tor Deity he
does not acknowledge)at his ii mplicity ?
does he not believe, if ever the French re
public (houldhuwiliate our eountry and give
us thcfraternal embrace, that to him and
all betrayers of their country, (he will fav,'<-
l loved the treafon,but defpifethe traitor ?"
It is the firm attitude of the federal man,
amidll the calamities of our country, that
the impartial and good, will admire. They
will view him as beirtg, ereft, calm, looking
forward with an inquisitive eye into futurity
—willing todojuttice, but resolved that
the peace and prosperity of his country,
shall not be the sport offair words and fai'th-
Irfi prornfes. Anxious for the general weal
he appears determined that resentment shall
i have 110 place within his hofom even against
the depredations of our country's wealth,
and therefore concurs ia the fending com
mjffioners, todifcufs thecaufes of difference
with thcFrench republic, who
have been treated with contempt and rudeness.
Finding that nothingbut unconditional Cub.
miffiori, and palpable breach of faith will
fatisfyour haughty persecutors, he resolute
ly r;t Jves like the Itrong man, tocmbrace
the pillars of his country, thoughjhe perirti.
ARISTIDES.
ABRIDGEMENT OE
THE -STATE OF POLITICKS.
FOR 1 HIS WEEK.
London, Jan. 6.
HAVING already, in an address to the
readers of this paper, in our number for
Tuesday hft, taken a glanee at the general
alfpcct of' 97, as seen by the eye of a Briton,
we (hall not iufift much further on that fub
jeft at this time thaa just to fay, that, at
the commencement of 1798, Great Britain
finds herfelf in a situation of equal difficulty
and novelty ; of difficulty,inafmuch as (hehas
to contend (ingle handed, against a neigh
bouring power, the mod 'formidable for
ijumWers, and various ttratagems of policy
and war, that has appeared in modern times,
perhaps that ever appeared in the world ;
of novelty, Uecaufe we are now, by the to
tal difTolution of the Confederation, and the
new arrangements and diflributions agreed
on between France aod Aullria in Germany
wholly isolated from the continent, and re
stored to the situation in which we flood be
fore the accession of King William 111. or
rather in the reign of Charles I.»— This ar
duous (late us affairs we by no means consi
der as an inauspicious commencement of the
year. It has, und.,ubtedly, a tendency to
unite us in council and adtipn ; to moder
ate the heats ar.d aninr.ofities of contending
parties and fadions in Parliament ; and to
call forth, and diredt with proper energy,
the resources and (Irength of the country.
Several proofs of such. aiudcration have been
given in the course of the lall recess of Par
liament, in which pretensions to personal
preferment were facrificed to the inurells of
the State ; and offers were made of support
without any,participation in any arrange
ments that should be formed of such men
['Volume XIII.and on such principles, as night ga.il the
general confidence of the italioH. Ihe
design alluded to proved abortive ; neverthe
less, the magammity and patriotiim evinced j
are equally intitled to our piaife, as if
it had been carried into execution. If the
French should dare to make their appearance
airmngH us, ihe fprrit of moderation and
mutual cohceflion would become general,
the will* of all be united, and and arm of
Grrat-Britain irrefiflahle. _ 11
Preparations are still going forward in n
France, for i/ivading some part of Great 1,
Britain or Ireland ; the real objeft of these a
is still a fu! jest of doubt and varimts con
jefture. But, for our part*, it does not f
appear quite certain to i*s, that the often-
fible objeft is not the real one, or at haft ],
that it will not, in the end, turn out to be ;
the real one ;,for whatever may be the pri- J
vate views of the Diredlory, arid their par- t
ty, the spirit of adventure and plunder once t
ex' ited can n«t be easily laid ; nor is it
impoiiible for French invention, direfted to v
one to contrive some means of elu- j
ding our fleets, and landing troops on our n
«oa!l» Though they have not a navy, they r
have, ar msy foo«i, proiure abundance of r
floating timber ; yet whether in huge rafts,
or floating 1(1 inds of wood, or in row-boats, ,
they would be exposed to many difficulties [
and dangers arising from natural causes, and [
to various modes of annoyance and attack
on the part of this nation ; and, on the j
whole, there is no realon for entertaining }
the smallest apprehenfi»n that their expedi- ,
tion would be fuccefsful. 1
SPAIN AND PORTUGAL. ,
Th'.fe countries, one day, and that per
haps not very distant, to be reunited in one |
glorious peninsula, though crouching at pre- j
sent before the insolence of thenfw Repub- |
lie, will in all probability, some years hence ,
be united with 1
ITALY ,
In 011* vigorous and fuccefsful effort for |
throwing off the Spanish yoke. In the
cause.they may probably be joined by the ,
grand Co-part:tioner Ally of France, tbl* ,
Emptror of
GERMANY.
We fee but a very fliort wsy indeed into ,
futurity ; who would have laid five or fix
vears ago, that a tew gentlemen on the Con- ,
limrit would lay their heads together, and
not in vain, for paicelling out the bed part
of Europe as they please ? Let us not fup
pofethat theprefent maniac energyof France
will be'perpetual : the French,left to them
fclves, will become inaftive and weak ; how
unfortunate that they were united for so
long a lime by external comprefiion.
The Congress has opened at Raftadt.
Theif proceedings are not far advanced in
the i'orms they, roust pass tnronglk: but e
nough, and too much has transpired of the
prirn iples by which tney are to be regulated
The Pacification has been preconcfrtedj
an I i>! to be diflated by France in con
jun<£lion with Austria : the integrity of the
Giviiatt Empire is not to be regarded : de
privations and exchanges are to be made
and the K. of E. in particular, it is undesr
ftood, is to be deprived of Hanover and Of
naburg.
THE NORTHERN POWERS. .
are ft 111 asleep ; their inaction appears to 11s
to have been, on a large view, very impoli
tic. Was it politic to permit France and
AtiilWa imperiously in the affairs of Ger
tno.-.y ; and even if France makes ajuft re
port, in thole of Poland. As to the contest
between France and England, it is probably
they think a very pleating fpedtacle 1 as
they hate the power of the one at land, and
that of the other at sea.
GREAT BRITAIN.
The modification ot a new AfTcfTment of
Taxeshss greatly abated the spirit of oppofi
tiori to that requisition ; ft ill many fay, why
not equalize, and ev-11 increafc the Land-tax ?
Others fay, why should the proprietors of
Stock escape The Minifterand his friends
may have an opportunity, if not of pleasing
yet of equalising, and displeasing all parties.
Tofpeak plainly, the Land-tax & the Funds
are bodies of reserve to be called into act
ion, if the phernzy of the Rulers of France
{hall reader this necessary.
* In that of Claries 11. iue were led into
foreign connections and alliances.
Muslins at Au&ion.
On TUESDAY MORNING the 3d of April, at
II o'clock, will be fold at J'oblic Avction,
I s b<i'es of East India Muslins,
By the b:le, for approved endorsed notts at 60
and 90 day*—confining of
Baftan
Coflaes
Guzzcnas ,
Handfc9 r chi<:fs, &c.
The whole cmirlr'! to drawback.
FOOTMAN y Co. Auffrs.
n-.arcl-. yx dt»
** For Savannah,
(To fail on Saturday the "Jth of April)
X u r cLf I D
, SWIFT PACKET,
: Patrick Oribbim, Vliflcr.
' ' A rrgular eflahiiftied Packet with
v clfgan' accommodations For
freight or apply 10 the Mafieron board at
Rcf»'& wharf, or to
N. & JFraxier,
Ko. 9St 9«--uth Front Street.
Who have for sale a quantity of prime new Kice
by said veflcl.
masch f 1 dyt
FOR SALE.
:i; Havannah Sugar
100 Hide^
Will be lan led to-morrow,' at Willing*and Fran-"
cis't wharf 4 from on boardthebr g A&ive, Wiil
iam William 6, mailer.
faid Brigforfale,
JlQnr And may t*\e in immedi-
r \attly after jiftharged.
Apply to
* Jcbu Hollingf worth Isf Co.
march 30. §
Hylon and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cnelh of excellent quality, for sale, cor
nir of Second and Pine llreets. On »6—cots
CONGRESS. w
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. 01
STATE OF UN ion. £
% »'
■ ■ .. fu
1 hurfday, March 29. cc
(Continued f>m witoy*s *!nzrl!e-) H
Mr. Brooks again complained of the f
insinuation which Mr. Gilts had thrown j°
out against him, which he said was not cal- (
ltd for by any circumllance under cotifider- f ;,
ation. lit
Mr. Giles allured him he mefitioned the or
faft alluded to out of no difrefpeef to him. ar
With refpeft to the date of Mr. Monroe's le
letter, he hid been deceived by a leaf be
ing folded down at the letter whose date be w
had mentioned- The gentleman had laid ol
that he had attributed improper motives to
the Prelident of the United States. This c :
he denied. He had said, he took meafuies j'
which he did not approve, and he hoped a
difference of opinion from any man, would c |
not be imputed to him as a crime. With d
refpeft to the explanation which jhe gentle- p
man had given of his own conduft he was 01
glad to hear it. It was to obtain this
nation, that he mentioned the reports which
he had heard. Mr. G. renewed his after- w
tion that he and his friends always had been it
willing to put the nation in a Hate of de- F
fence. As to the frigates, Ire gloried in P
his vote against them j but with refpeel to j'
the ufe(of them, the gentleman jwas mifta- w
ken. They were intended to be sent against b
the Algerines only. r;
Mr. Si Smith said a few words as to the b
statements whicfr had been made with re- v
fpeti to the amount of our exports to dif- "
ferent countries : that made by the gentle
man from Virginia, he said, was correft, v
except that some deduilion onjht to be S
made frsm the 36 millions on account of the
hanfe fr-vns. l
tfr. NrcHOLAS made some remarks as 0
to the date of Mr. Monroe's letter. Tho' t
the date Was as stated by the gentleman j
from S. Carolina, he (till maintained that t-
Mr. Monroe could not have known whether 1 J
or not the Senate had ratified the British i t
treaty. Mr. N. hoped the committee would 1
rile, and that he should be permitted to t
fiiew the consequences of a war with France f
at this time. He said yesterday he should t
have been frilling to have overlooked the c
pad, and to have taken the bell mode of , c
getting out of our present fituatioa ; but : J
when gentlemen fay that all has been done ; .
by this government that could have „been, ; ,
he should confidtr it as treason to his conn- i
try not to fliew that the present mifunder- '
Handing with the French republic was fouti- 1
ded in our own mifcondud. Not that we
were wrong in faying we will not bear the
treatment of the French since ; for though
he thonght we gave the firit offence, yet 1
he was not for bearing the chastisement of 1
any country.
After a few words betwixt Mr. Dayton
and Mr. Nicholas, as to the objett of the
amendment, the committee rose.
CALL UPON THE PRESIDENT.
Friday, March 30.
MR. ALLEN having proposed the fol
lowing resolution :
" Resolved, That the Prefidcnt of the United
States be requested to communicate to this house,
the dispatches from the Envoys Extraordinary of
the United States to the French Republic, men- ;
tioned in his message ot the 19th inft.
or fucb parts thereof as configurations of public fafety
and interefly in bis opinion, may permit."
Mr. S. Smith said, he Ihould have no ob-
to the resolution, if the latter part of
it was struck out. If the President thought
it neceflTary that any part of the correspon
dence ought to be kept secret, he would, as is
usual in such cases, inform the House that this
wa the cal'e, and the galleries would «c
---cordingly be cleared. The communication
would then, probably be referred to a felett
committee, and iuch parts of it publilhed, as
might appear proper.
Mr. Allen observed, that there might be
' parts of this correspondence which it would
not be proper to communicate to this House,
even confidentially. If this was not the cafe,
the Prelident could (till communicate such
part of the correspondence in confidence as he
may think proper. He wilhed to leave the
Prelident to ait according to his discretion.
Without some portion of this discretion be
ing allowed him, the government could not
proceed.
Mr. Giles said, no part of the correspon
dence ought to be kept from Congress. He
1 was not himfelf fatisned as to the (incerity of
1 the proceedings of the Executive of the Uni
ted States towards France; he wished, there
fore, not only to have the correspondence of
our ministers, but the inllructions which were
given to thein. Mr. G. defended what he
had yeflerday said about the President and
these papers; and hoped if the House called
forthe papers at all, they would call forall the
papers, and the inltructions upon which our
ministers acted.
Mr. Livingston moved to amend the re
solution, by llriking out all the words after
the 19th infhint, ami insert after the words
"this House" the injlruftjms 10 an<l.** This
' j was not a time, Mr. L. (aid, to (hind upon
-lon ordinary oQcalions. They were now cal
j led upon to fay whether the country be
preserved in peace, or go to warj H ye.t.Xhe cor
respondence which ought to "convince the
House of the propriety of adting itvthis or that
way, is withheld. How could tie} fay to
e , the.r constituents, without this inltjr at on,
! all has been done that could be done :o pre
lerve the country in peace, but war ijfa.s ine
! vitable ! And.if war is rushed in'O headlong,
1 without due consideration, and consequently
j without afcertaifting whether it isjuftor not,
' can it be expected that the wilhes and aids of
' the people will be heartily engaged in such a
war ? They certainly would not.
It would be 110 answer, to fay thai our nego
tiation with a foreign power would, by this
!, means, be expoled. The communication
. might be made with clofediloors, and no one
could l'tippcfe any thing would be exposed
by tke members of the legislature, which the
good of the country requires to be kept se
cret. But gentlemen wish this House to re
pose the strictest confidence in one branch of
1. the government, at the fame time that they
r- fay no confidence can be placcd-in the inte
grity of this House. [Mr. Allen exclaim-
Ed; ttimfaid tt J] Mr. L. replied, that this tiip<
was u fair inference troru what had been said. belt
The latter part of thS resolution proposed den
to transfer a right to the President,' which it is in
ought itfelf to cxercife, as to judging of wdiat will
it was proper to publifli in Ccmlideration ot the , tori;
public fafety and interest.* It tiiis.power was corr
given to the President, he might withhold refp
inch parrs of the papers, as might prevent, a voti
correct judgment being formed upon them, oft
He was not hiiufelt d;(poled to cede to the poli
President the riglvt, which he was sent there [lie
to exercise for his constituents, of judging of thai
so important a question as a question ot peace the;
or war. He could not basely surrender this try
fight. If the papers were called for at all, tod
he hoped, tlie whole would be called for, in obji
• order that the House might orm that found not
and temperate judgment for which the pre- N
( sent cri(is sb loudly calls, and for which the t!en
people of the United States anxioitfly look, upo
Indeed to pal's the resolution unamended, ta.ui
: would, in his opinion,be a (hameful direliCtion cou
1 of their right-. < l I"
i Mr. Bay ard thought the propriety of this mta
- call upon the Prelirienrwasexuemely-doubt- ipp
s fill, and as it regarded the lurtruttious given the
s to our m!iiifieri, wholly improper. With -vhi
1 refpeiit to the communication of t|ie difpat- pla
eties, it <vas wholly a matter of Executive bet
t discretion to judge whether it would be pro- cell
. per to commun cate them,'or not. He was bet
s one of those Who had so much confidence in pof
the Executive as to trull to his candour, tin- to |
derltanding and integrity, to determine upon mit
1 the propriety of what hg Ih'juld fend to ; or He
- withhold from this House. At a time when the
l it is not known that our negotiation with Un
- France is closed, it would be extremely im- Vu
, prudent to have the inltmetions to ourminif- doi
} ters laid before this house, as what was sent (he
here, notwithstanding any vote of fecrefv, act
" would not long be kept secret. It would soon wa
' be in Europe, and might do us efTential inju- ran
ry, by difcloliitgourtlltiination 10 France, and do.
; by (hewing it alio to the world. It was in poi
vain, Mr. B. said, to suppose that one him- net
dred tfien could keep a iecret for any length po
of time, however important it might be. To noi
elucidate that afTenion, he referred to the di- cej
> vulging the secret of the British tfeaty by a |on
e Senator. | fid
c But the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Dei
Gii h.s) has no confidence in the government ! wa
of this country with refpeft to its negociation
' with France ; and in order to try the finceri- the
ty of the Executive, he wishes tor these pa- ' tec
n pers. Does the gentleman, by this, mean to iap
t . give the lie to the Executive > Because in in
r i his mefTage he has told the House that he has be
h I given power to our MinisterS to fettle our di(- de
j putes with the French Republic and to "make th
I all reasonable concellions." What more does tai
0 I the gentleman wish > Does he wilh unrea- fin
e fonable conceilions to be made ? Surely he tli
d | does not. Did any thing appear in the con- op
e j duct of the French Direttory to (hew that nc
our. Ministers were not poflelTed of ample m
|t I powers ! No ; the Directory never knew any th
I thing about tiieir powers, at lead so far as ot
|C ! any official communications had been receiv
ed on the fubjett. There could not, there- nc
I- . fore, be any ground upon which the gentle- Pi
l- man rould reft his suspicions. He hoped, be
therefore, theamendment would be negatiVed. h;
r£ Two or three gentlemen were on the floor ni
together. w
"J The Speaker said, the amendment to jn- fa
" fert the inftruClions to and, would come fir ft tli
ft under conlideration. it
jf j Mr. Harper said, he did not mean, at ol
| this time, to enter int > the merits of the pre- b<
n sent queltion. It was important and present- ei
ed itfelf in anew light t« the house. The Ii
le original motion he was ready to have voted ai
for j he did not know whether he might not tl
vote for this. But he wished time to consider p
of it. He therefore moved the fartherconfi- tl
deration ot this question to be postponed till tl
Monday. n
1- Mr. Allen had no objeftion to the port- u
ponement, except the mover o£ the amend- si
j ment, would permit it to be amended by a g
j. i modification of this fort, " Such parts of those b
injlruftions as 'were communicated to the French V
, n _ Government." ' u
The question for postponement was put and w
■ ct 1 carried 47 to 41. j b
The order of the day was then called for. j d
Mr. A llen hoped, since the consideration n
1 of his proposition had been postponed, the a
° j house would not lefolve itfelf into a commit- i n
; tee ot the whole on the State of the Union, un- ! v
n .~ 1 til this information Was received. The debate c
|! s of yesterday, he thought would do no good, e
,as it served only to alarm the public mind, 0
**" and he expedted if the house went into a com
mittee to-day, the time would be spent asun- v
: profitably. g
as Mr. Brooks seconded the motion, as the a
information called for would certainly throw v
, j light upon the fubjedt ; and though he had t
1 himfelf fufficient information to enable him
' e > to vote upon the question, many gentlemen, i
' in the course of the debate, had made a great t
I hue and try after these papers, he hoped there- I
le fore they would be called for. 1
Mr, Nichola salways thought it proper to i
,n ' ask for further information on this subject; t
)e ~ but as he had been told that when it was re- v
,ot csived, it would be final as to our atlairs with f
France, and tantamou.it to war, he thought t
it better to decide the question whether we are 1
ready to go to war, or not, firft. He wished t
this, alf'o, to prevent the consequences which t
nl " are now taking place from a general imprefti- (
re ~. on in the country, from the late meflage of t
ot the President, that we niuft be involved in i
ere War. In confequeijce of this perfuaiion, he f
® had received information that produce has fall- *
'j en one-fourth in price. He wifhud, therefore, t
® to come to a vote as soon as possible that (liould I
ie decide the question of peace or war. It was I
aur upon this ground that he did not call for the '
papers, and upon this ground, he hoped they 1
rc " ihoiild proceed with the business. Delaymay t
• f ® r give time formealnres to be taken which fliall '
(tab the peace of the country ; which may go i
beyond the powers of the legislature to arielt I
1011 their progress. If the |>uftnefs ot the Union <
'P~ was to be suspended until the call was made, '
"J it must also be suspended until the call is an- i
" e fwered ; and if it be favorably answered, un- <
or " tiHhe communications are printed. He hop- 1
! ed, therefore, this delay would not take place. I
at Mr. Baldwin said, if gentlemen could 1
to reconcile it to their own minds to let this im- ]
on > portant business lie over from day to day, it
rc " was more than he could do. He was surprised
" e " to si id at firll some reluttancje to go into a '
n 8» committee .of the whole on the State of tlie 1
lt 's r Union ; and he was now surprised that there 1
,ot '. was any reluitance to proceed with the bufi
sot ness. He would not indulge suspicions as to 1
a motives ; but he begged thein to believe that
he could not help cxprefiing his anxiety at the 1
B°." profpett of any delay in coming to a decision 1
thls on the question which had already undergone '
I>on some difculTion. He had never seen the affairs
° n( : of this country on such a dangerous precipice 1
)( f" as at present,"and not to ait, but let things 1
' c alone, and the country will soon be in war, 1
,e " and then we must defend ourselves as well as
re * we can. At lead, this was his view of the I
'°' matter. But, if the business be pursued at J
' ,c y present, though we find France has behaved i
) ,e " towardstis, so as to give us a just ground for 1
im * war, yet if we wish to avoid war, this is tlie i
time to prevent it. The fubjefl is at present it 1
before tlie house in the way which the Preli- I pr c
dent thought proper to place it ; and if a call ma
is made for papers, it is well known that lie pet
will not be obliged to fend them. Thein- mil
. formation which they had he himfelt supposes [ U F
correct, as the President had given it upon his I,l '
refponlibility ; he was, therefore, ready to re A
vote upon the question before the committee tha
of the whole. He believed there was a dis
position in the country for peace, and against pi'
the arming of merchant veflels. vol
that by taking pointud and decilive measures, 1»
they had on a former occalion, keptthecoun- noi
try out of war ; he hoped they would be able ac l
to do it on the prefentoccafion. He should no on
objeft to calling for the papers; but wished c 'ji
not to protract the business.
Mr. Gordon was surprised to hear gen
tlemen fay the house was called upon to aft
upon the opin onot the President, there is cef*- th.
tajnly something more before the house He ce<
could not account tor the opposition made to 1 ha
a postponement except it was,»that when the of
nfjrmatibn was obtained gentlemen were bu
ipprehenlive they coiild not hold the langnags l' e
they now hold, as almost every geollem»n gd
who had spoken upon the subjeCt, had com- be
plained that fufficient information was not u"
before them. If this information was unne- do
relfary, then tiie refolutian ought to have A
been negatived at once ; biy having been of
postponed, he thought it would be Improper pi
to proceed with the question before the com- (o
mittee of the whole, until it was received. D
He saw 110 reason, therefore, for going into fa;
the committee of the whole onthe (late of the ha
Union, except to give the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. Nicholas) an o irtiinity ot D
doing what he has proposed tu Jo, viz. to afi
(hew to the world thai our Government has- in
acted improperly towards France; but such di
wa> his opinion of that gentleman's perfeve • cr
ranee, that if he did not get an opportunity ot th
doing this to-day, he would take another op
portunity of doing it,'and therefore it was not de
neceHary to go into a committee for the pur- to
pofc of receiving hs speech ; and he,con Id U
1 not fee for what else it could be desired, ex- ej
cejit it was that gentlemen wilhed still to hold w
1 ' out to the people the idea, that there is a con- in
I fidc rable yarf of this house, with the Prefi- (a
dent at their head, for war, though the charge in
t ' was altogether denied. °'
1 But the gentleman from Virginia, fays that m
. the late meirage of the President has so a'gita- v '
: ted the public mind, that believing war is tli
> approaching, produce has fallen one fourth
\ in price. If the fafl was as stated, he did not m
s believe it had been the Meflage of the Prefi
. dent which had produced it, but the decree ot
; the French Directory, as the MefTage con
s tained nothing like war. He thought the in- 1
. finuation injurious to the President, and to b
: tliofe who thought with him, and who were K
- opposed to war, but who, nevertheless, will Si
t not vote for the resolution before the com
: mittee of the whole, because they do not leel _
y theiufelves called upon to decide the question
s of Peace or War at present. r
Mr. Dana was against: the postponement,
. not because he thought the meflage of the
. President had caused the fall of produce —
i, because that Meflage would certainly .have
. had no such effett, had it not been accompa
,r nied by a decree of the French Directory,
which went to let loose all the French cor
. fairs upon all Neutral veflels, and to exclude
ft them from French ports. This, he believed
it was which had produced the effect spoken
it of. But he did not think of the resolution
before the committee of the whole was adopt
t- ed, that it would raise the price of produce,
ie Indeed, he did not think it would produce
:d any effeft. He considered it as an unmeaning
at thing; and a person voting for it, might with
»r propriety go into every measure prspofed for
i. the defence of the country. It was one of
,11 those vague propositions upon which gentle- j
men may fay what they please, and he looked f
h upon it as introduced with that view. And _
I- since they must submit to hear the fpeechesof j
a gentlemen upon the occasion-, he wished the
)f e business to be going on. The gentleman from
J c h Virginia told the committee yesterday, that he
would them a fpeeclrto-day, wherein lie
id would (hew rtiat this country had been to
1 blame in refpeft in France, in which, he
j doubted not, they should be entertained with
in many severe phillippicsagainft the Executive ;
he all these l'peeches, calculated to raise a cla
t- j mour in tlie country must be submitted to. He
II- I wished therefore, to go from day today into a
ite committee of the whole, until gentlemen had
d, exhausted themselves, and then tUe business
d, of the Nation might be proceeded with.
n- Mr. Brooks said, for the fame reason
n- which his friend from Connecticut gave for
going into the order of the day, he wished to
he avoid it ; because he hoped, if till Monday
jw was given for the gentleman to consider upon
ad the matter, he would give up his speech.
im Mr. Gallatin. In whatever he had said
■n, in the Sommittee of the whole on the ftateof
;at the Union, he had made no allusion to the pa
e- pcrs, a call for which had been proposed. If
he understood the objections urged to going
to into a committee of the whole on the date of
:t; the Union, it was, that the house ought to
e- wait until these papers were before thein- So
ith far as related to himfelf, this was unneceflary,
ht tor he had not complained of any want on this
ire head. Not because he did not desire to have
ed the information, if it could be obtained ; but
ch becaule he thought it bed, under the present
Ti- fituation'of this country, firft to decide whe
of tlier we will remain in Peace, or go to War.
in For if it had fird been determined to call for
he farther information, how did he know that it
II- would be given, or if given, whether it would
re, not be in a mutilated date, rather than which,
ild he would chufe to act without it upon the
,as MelTage of the President alone ; and, accor
he ding to the opinion of the gentleman from
iey Delaware (Mr. Bayard) the house ought not
lay to ask for any papers whatever from the Exe
all cutivc. He thought theinformationcontained
go in the Meflage of the President was f ufficient
eft td decide the quedion at present before the
on committee of the whole, as he there dates,
le, that he has 110 ground to hope for a happy
in- issue to our million. This is not matter ot
in- opinion ; but coming from the President to
p. the I.egiflature, is matter of faft, and when he
:e. so fay\ it must be understood that he is not
lid willing that any farther Negociatio'n (hall take
n- place ; and that all the reasonable concessions
it having been made that can be made, there is
fed an end of the Negociation. It was true, when
> a these conceflions were made known, it was
he poflible, that he might differ in opinion from
ere the PrefidenAs to their reafonaolenefs ; but
ifi- this House has 110 controul over the Prefi
to dent in this respect. Therefore, the informa
hat tion which he has given to the house, is futti
the cient for them to act upon ;%nd they ought
ion now to fay whether they will go to War,
,ne or remain in Peace.
tirs The gentleman from Conne£ticut(Mr. Da
ice na) lias supposed that the resolution before
!g S the committee of the whole, is vague and
ar, inexplicit ; merely a thing for declamation
as and speeches, and that it ought therefore to
the be disposed of as soon as poflible. He was
at himfelf also in favpgr of getting through with
'ed it as soon as poflible ; but it was extraordina
for ry, that that gentleman should complain of
:ha its being vague, and ytt endeavour to make 1
it more To, by wilhingto fe« i' nded
propofcd. As to thefpcecbes lad been
made upon this cccalion, they writ* not pro
perly produced by the motion befo»e (he com
mittee, and could not be charged tipon the
fupportersofit. Theonly arguments offered
in favour of it (which had been in some degree
retrained by the amendment) whet.: to (hew,
that it is not expedient to go war ut tlv.s time.
Mr. G. did not fee how the information
proposed to be called for could influence the
vote on the queltidn before the committee.
If any gentleman could shew this, he would
not object to the postponement. The mover
acknowledged hedid not want the informati
on forhimlelf; it was only to remove|any
clamour wfcirh might be tiled in debate, or
which might appear in the papers.
It was true, Mr. G. said, however obnox
ious the fa6t might be to some gentlemen,
that the me(Tag£.of the Preiident had produ
ced the effect which had been mentioned ; it
had upon his mind the effect of a Declaration
of War. He did not fay that it really was so ;
but the eff'eiit produced upon him was, a be
lief that if famething was not done by thele
giflature to prevent it, the consequence would
be war. 1 his conviction he felt from the
moment the melTage was read. He under- ,
(food the fame effect was.produced on others.
And though he was not certain about the fa£t
of the fall which had been faid'to h-ve taken
plat-e in the price of produce, yet, if it were
10, it was not produced by the decree of the
DiretVoryj as that accewnpanied the firft mes
sage of the President, and it was the la(t which
had had the effect spoKen of.
The effefct produced by the decree of the
Direitory, said Mr. G. we know. It can be
afcertainad by tlje variation it has produced
in the price of insurance. He understood the
difference which had been made by thff de
cree in the insurance of velfels from London to*
this country, was five per cent.
Mr. G.'thought it important that an earl
decision should be given to the question be
fore the committee, that the people of tl e
United States might-know what: they had to
expe£t, and in order to remove- the idea
which every where prevails, that we (hall be
iri w<fr in a (hort time. It is upon this idea,
said he, that the Insurance Offices rcfufe to
insure velfels in French ports not on account
of.the decree of the Directory, but Irom tie
melfage of the President : and it was with a
view of removing this impreflion, he beteved,
that the resolution was laid upon the table.
(Debate to be continued-)
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Waggon, hung on Jack* with glaffis and
blind-in the doors, with or without harness.
Kuquire of Peer Umericfchoufe, Arch, below
Sixth llreet, or the fuhferiber in Germantown
CASPAR IV. MJIIiES.
April 2 "law; w
Twenty Dollars Reward.
r "P"HE Store occupied on account of the United
1 States, back of No. 71, North Water-flreet
was*on the night of the 19th instant (March) bro
ken open, apd the following articles floUn, and
taken therefrom :
Nine pieces Stroud; viz.
J 374 20 \ Blue ftroud fitiglc
z 3'/8 20 i cor d.
2379 20
2380 20 \
2381 20*
2382 20 ( Two cord.
2383 20^
2384 20 I
1 2385 20} J
• Tfce above reward is offered, for the discovery
of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
J he apprehended, and made amenable to juflice ;
J further reward will be paid, for the recovery of
J. any part of the goods stolen, on delivery of tke
fame to
- JOHN HARRIS,
1 Keeper Military Stores,
april 1. lw
■> JUST RECEIVED.
- And for faieby W.Yonng, corner of Second
I and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-fireet
' T. Dobl'on, 41 South Second-street and the
Booksellers generally,
(Price 5-jths of a Dollar.)
i 'BEACON HILL,
s A Local Poem, historic and descriptive ;
By a Lady of Bojlon.
n ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
r Allusion to the fur rounding Profpedl—lnvocation
0 to the River a:id sylvan Deities—to the Historic
y Mufe—FiAion discarded—Dedication to Waft-
II ingtori—The Ailion opensar the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Hows
d The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
s rcn—Perfnnification of Fcrtune and Faaie—
Walhington at Mount Vernon—called to the
' chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
g Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
f tical History of the several States—Their com
o manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffcr
-0 jugs—Negotiation for the f*fe Retreat of the
, British Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
s Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
e ravftcr of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
,t prophetic Apof rophe to the Frcgrefs of Free
.[ dom throughout the World,
march 3c. S
r Joseph Rjcakdo,
1 /"vFthis City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
d V 7 perty for the benefit of his Creditors, tsjamea
I, C. W. Filher, and Thomas Wl|fon.
c All persons who have demands' are rc
n quelled to furniftj their accounts without delay—
lt and those indebted to make immediate payment to
! the Subscribers, ailing Aflignees.
j "James C. & Samuel IV. Fibber.
(t No. 13, ArchStfeit.
Ie march .11 4tawtf
5 ; ~~ FOR SALE,
)t ALL that elegant three ilory Brick House, brick
Kitchen and I,ot Qf Ground lituate on the
° south weft corner of Fourth and Prune Greets,
lC containing in front on F urth ftrtet 3J feet, and
Jl in length on Prune flre»t 98 tc«*t, to a four-feet al
"e ley intended to be left open with common privi-
? s lege of the fame.
13 Also, a two story brick House and Lot o! Ground
!n lituate on thr well fide Fourth street and ad
joining ths above, containing in brtiadth an Fourth
111 Areet feet 6 inches, and in dc?pth 98 f«et or tfce
. lt said four alley, with the common privileges of
the seme s
J- And also, all that Lot of Ground situate on the
i- weft fide of Fourth street and adjoining the lad
it described lot, containing in breadth on Fourth
r, street 25 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north
fide 102 feet, thence running ibuthward 11
1- inches, thence further weft ward 12 feet, thence
re ft ill further southward 14 feet, and thchce by the
d Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth street, withlhe
n common use ct the fajd four feet alley leading in
o to Prune street The whole will be fold together
is if more agreeable to the purchafrr.
h For terms, enquire of the foMcnber, at his of
fice, No. I*4 Soutn Foarth street.
>f ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
Le 1 march 31. 3awttThe Subscribers have For Sale,
The following GOODS, viz.
Red and blue Eernagore Han-kerchiefs
Santipore do.
Sutrorwal d^.
Dorcas ">
"■C.oflkhh > MUSLINS .
Cbfrcrn (
TJook J>
HummUms '
C'v>JiTc tt.riped rc-tfon Cloth*.
Bhck and other coloured toclun Tafiities
Do. do. vhinefe do.
Black and white Crinefe Sattins
IMueand w))ite do. LuUftrings
Heavy black Pepper
t:«irda;*e aflbrted
Old Madeira Wine
Port do.
Sheiry do. in quarter caiks
Claret in cases '
Holland Gin in pipes
Englift Perry
An iron Book Cafs
PHILIPS, CRAMOND Co.
A Houle and Lot in Burlington.
FOR SALE.
A LARGE commodious two story brick House,
and large well improved Garden ; with a
large Clover I rot, a liable, a Carriage Houle, and
Spring House, <?< c. in the City of Burlington,
New- Jcrfey.
Thrs property is allowed to be the most healthy
and bcautirul v ot any in Burlington, having a iront
of S6O feet upou the river, and extending zcß feet
back.; bonnded on cne fidejby Broad-street, and on
the back by a wide a^ley.
Thehou! is in form of a square, frntii.g 54
feet upon Broad-!lr el. and 58 upon the river,—
wi»h a pump of water at the backdoor, besides
two fine fprinjrs rifiDg sut ot the beautiful hank
between the garden and the river.
Fm* particulars, apply at No. 5, South Fourth
llreet, to
GEO. WALKER.
Who has also For Sale i
I«ots in Washington City.
march ; 1. §
SAL 7 PEIR E.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
James C, & Samuel IV. Fi/her,
No. 13, ArchStrcet
march 31 * 4tawtf
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1798.
Letters for the Britifli Packet for Fal
mouth, will be received at this Office, until
Tnefday, 3d of April, at 12 o'clock noon, j
N. B. Inland portage must be paid to
New-York.
JUST PUJi ISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS* OFFICE,
(Price 25 Cents J
Reflections on Monroe's View'
. OF TUE CONDUCT OT THE EXSCUTIfE,
As published is the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In which the Commercial Warfare France it traced
to the French Faction in this Country, as its Source,
and the Motives oj Oppofitian, c.
march 30.
Treafary Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
\TpropolaU will be received at the Office of
the Secretary of theTreafury until the cxp4-
rathn of 'he irth day of July next ensuing, for
thefupp'y of all fjitions which may be requiiei
for the life of the United States, from the firti day of
QAober 1798, t'o the thirtieth day of September
1799, days at the places and within
the Hi 4 hereafter meationed, viz. At Ofwego ;
at : ;aj>ara ; at k'refque lllc ; at jVficlii!imackir ac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Piteiburgh ;;t Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati ; at Greenville ; atPicqueTown and
Loratnie's Srcre ; aT Fort VA'ayne; at Forc Defi
arcr ; at any place bel6w Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to l.aKe Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanorj on the River Wabafli; at MalTac; at any
p-ae- or places oji theeall fide of the River Missis
sippi above the month of the River Ohio, and up
<>ii the Illinois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Milufiippi River below the mouth
oft the River Ohio to the fquthcrn boundary of the |
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat« ; at j
Khokvillc, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Ports in the State o' i ennelTec ; at any place or
plaa s on the tafl fide of the River Mifliflippi, be
low the fourhern boundary of the State of Tennes
see, to the foutherii boundary of the UnitcdStates.
I s fupplirs ihall be required for any pofls or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplies
shall befurnifhed at prices proportioned to those to
the posts before recited, as may be agreed on be- ,
tween th United States andtha contradlor.
The rations to he supplied to confix of th" fol
*lowif3^articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill oi rum, brandy of *
ky, one quart of Salt, two quart? (
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, (
, f ■< \ rations
one pound of candles J
The rations are to be furnilhed in such quantities,
as th t there iball at all times during term,
be fufficient for the conlt mptioij of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other poits, for the term of at leali three
tnonth* im advance, in good and wholefomc provi-
Hons, if the fame (hail be required. It is t« be un
derfiood, that the contractor i» to be at the ex
prrce and rifle of issuing the fuppliesto the troops
at each pod, and that all lofics fnitained by the de
predarions of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, (hall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or nr.ore persons of credita
ble charaders, and the certificate of a comipifiion
ed officer, afcertairtinj* the circuit (lances of the
loft aod the amount of che ariicles for which com
pensation (hall be claimed.
The priviledge n reftrved to the United States
of requiriKjr that none of ihe supplies which may
befurr ithed under theproprfed contrail, fcall be
HTutd, until the ftippiies which have or may b«
furniihed under the new in frrte have
been cowfumrd
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
m-rc u 17. lawrr ; y
FOR, SALE,
By WHAR lON LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner'• Oil,
4th proof Jam ticaßum, > to
ill and 3d proof Brandy, j dtawLack.
Madeira Wir.e,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Feb. 9. eodtf
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, March 26.'
LATEST f*. m PORTUGAL.
Capt. Rouwjey arrived here 011 Saturday
from Lisbon, in 4.0 (Jays, informs that the
re-Gonnoitcring frigates of Earl St. Vincents
fleet, announced, on the 9th Feb. by fig
fials, that the. Spanifli fleet, were getting
under way in the harbour of Cadiz ; that
the Britifli fleet tliea lying in Lisbon, were
instantly ordered in readiness to proceed to
sea, and were out of Li&on early on the
next morning—and that when he failed,
which was the nth, signals were given
that the fleet were within 8 leagues of the
Spaniards. Capt. Roundey adds, that it
was reported, the Spanifli fleet were order
ed out by the French Executive Direftory,
at all rifquss, for the purpose of joining
the fleet at Brest. Th e Spanifli ships which
came out but 23, the English 22.
Capt. Roundey, from Lisbon, informs,
that the treaty between France and Portu
gal, remains unratified.
NEW-YORK, March 3 1.
We learn with pain from Charleftofi,
S. C. that a tremendous FIRE liroke out
in that city cn the 19th irift. by which 22
houses were eoniumed—commencing in
King-street. We have 110 printed accounts
of this fad cataltrophe, as our informant
failed early in the morning of the fire.
TRANSLATIONS
For the Argus, from French papers by the
James —continued from our loft.
RASTADT, Jan. 15.
Since unlimited powers are arrived to the
diet of the deputation ot the empire, ne
gociation* for peace will not fail to be soon
opened.
Yefterdty the deputation held their
twelfth meeting, to-day the full powers will
be presented.
Citizen Bacher, after flopping here a few
days, took tlfle rout for Rati/feon, where he
will make his appearance at firft as a private
citizen, after which he will display himfelf
charge d'Affairs of the French republic.
Letters from Vienna of the 30th Decem
ber, to several meichants here mention,
that at the moment of the departure of the
express, several Greek merchants were ar
rested, who had printed in the language of
their nation, revolutionary writings, to be
spread over Turkey and tke Archipellago
islands. They are also accused of being
the authors of the present revolution in
Turkey. The Turkish ambaflador 011 this
occasion will make the more serious repre
sentations to the emperor. It is also said,
that the Greeks established at Vienna, have
an understanding with several rich Greek
merchants established in Hungary, whose
influence extends into Turkey.
The fame letters also mention, that the
Turkish rebels, after a terrible bloody bat
tle, took Belgrade by afTault, and that all
the inhabitants of that miserable place were •
massacred. The 7th December, the com
mandant forbad the inhabitants to receive
any strangers in their houses. Several Jews
were taken up as spies.
Extradl of a letter from Conllantinoplc,
dated 11 th Dec.
" The French revolution has extended
its effects from Lisbon to this place. The
Grand Sultan has the mortification to fee
the old system overturned here as well as in
several other countries. France will soon
cover Europe with its* numerous and vali
ant legions. Instead of being a friend at a
dillance, she has become a dangerous neigh
bor. The capture of the former Venetain
islands on our coasts, by the French occu
pies all the atteHtion of the Divan, at the
fame time the spirit of Liberty manifefts it
felf in all the Morea, and Old Greece.
" The Turkish troops will not be able
much longer to keep order in their provinces
The beginningof this month an ambafladorwas
sent to Paris, with very pressing inftrudHons
to make representations to the French go
vernment, and to enter into negociations*
AstherehaTebeen great infurre&ions in some
of the island» of the Levant, the French
general Serrurier, commanding at Venice,
was obliged to dispatch great reinforcements
to thefeiflands, which has fer»ed to increase
the Porte's anxiety. Since which the Porte
seems determined to take strong measures
to meet these exigencies. Conferences have
been held with the Ruffian minister, and
it is yet possible, that before the end of this
century, Russia will be the ally of Turkey
in a common cause, especially if PrulTia (hall
be forced to declare itfelf, and that the
French should extend yet farther the mise
ries of war. It is pofliUle, that in such a
cafe England will also ally itfelf with the
Porte against France."
BASLE. January 14.
Political affairs occupy more than ever our
Megjlrates, and the Senate is occupied every
day. 10 day <we waited with extraordinary
impatience new 1 from Upper Switzerland ;
ihey inform us that several towns and communes
in the country of Vaude, have renewed their
oath of fidelity, with some reservations analo
gous to prefect cirtumjlances. Some regiments
of the German Territory, who had orders to
march, received counter orders. The uews of
today is, that 15,000 French troops have tu
tered on the frontiers of Berne ; their troops
pajfed through Geneva in small diviftons oj 4
or SCO men—other troops have also arrived at
Huninguen, and other places in our neighbour
hood.
TURIN, January 6
Our court prtpofd an alliance ojfenjive & de
fensive with the republic. Thepro
ject of the treaty contained among other 'articles
t that the two powers should reciprocally give up
the Refugees who hadfound an asylum in the
I refpedive I 'countries, which article is alfolutely
contrary to the principles of the Cisalpine Cen-
Jlitution. 7be Directory announced, that the
Cisalpine Republic was ncgiciating with the
trench Republic an alliance <whicb would be
the bafii of its polit c d exijlence, and thai it j .
could make no treaty -with any ether nation, till j '
yaid treaty was concluded. j ,
Aft express from Genoa to Parir, brings an j |
account that part of the regiment of lVdlcmiillt j I
has been difarmcd by the national guards of j
Noyon. "Three Individuals have lately been j
guillotined at Brussels. ■ J
t ,>—sanag—' ■-'JIM »-.|Ui|llMllll
%ljt (gazette*
PHI L A IDJi APH IA , |,
MONDAY EVENING, April 2
' f£
" Eugenius,'—To morrow.
A resolution of the House of Represen
tatives was carried this forenoon, -ayes 55,
noes 27, requeuing the Prcfident of the'
United States to communicate to the House
the inftrtaftions to, and dispatches from our
envoys at Paris, referred to in his mefiage
of the 19th March.
DlED—this morning of a Consumption,
Mr. John P. Moreton, one of the mod
distinguished Performers of the Company
belonging to the New-Theatre of this city.
The Theatre will be closed three days as
a tribute of refpeft to the memory of the
late Mr. Moreton.
Mr. FenneU's Night will be 011 Thursday
—and Mr. Harwood's on Saturday. ■
Extra& of a letter from a refpeftable house in
London, to a n erchant of this city, dated
January 27.
" The government of Hamburg, we under
hand, have submitted to some of the measures
impofcl ca then, by the French, but stem de
termined to resist the one that had for its objeft
the confilcation of Britilh p-cperty, and the
non admittance of our {hipping into their ports,
but the other alarming measures of the Freuch
with refpetf to neutral veflrls, we dare fay will
he adhered to-with the utmost rigor.— Premi
ums of infuranee from hence to America are
not-yet quite fixed, but it is expeffed they wi 1
be as high as 70 gnineis, with proportionate re
turns for convoy, should any be appoimed, "but
it r. mains a matter of doubt whether it will be
expedient for your {hipping to avail themselves
of theprotetfinn of our flag ; tis a very deli
cate and your minister, Mr. King, is no
doubt under great embarraflments how to a&
for the best under fucli perplexing circumstan
ces."
ExtraS of a letter from Baltimore.
" The Union from Harwich failed about
the Bth of February. By her we are inform
ed that doubts areentertained refpefting the
policy of granting a convoy to the Ameri
cans. Capt. Porter fays, that oh applica
tion for convoy to the Americans, Mr. Pitt
said, that this rneafure if complied with,
would give exclusive advantages t* the Ame
ricans whereas if refufed, the difference of
premium in favor of British bottoms, would
more than mee: our difference of duty."
COMMVMCATION.
When a vile declaimer in excuse of foreign
robbery and insult, who is himfelf a NOTED
gamblsr, attempts to gull his hearers by ap
pealing to the purity of his motives and his mo
ney tranfaflions, he is likely to obtain equal cre
dence with a bawdy who should makeprotefta
tidns of cbaftity, or a Bully, tuho experts to
ejlablijb a character of bravery by calling names
from an inaccessible situation.
However eonfonant such attempts may be to
the views and decorum of our Frenchified pat.
rots, the independent citizens of the United
States are not to be thus be-oiled.
A Paris paper of January 27, contains the !
fallowing particulars of a
REVOLUTION in HOLLAND. j
The patriotic party have been for some
time Strengthening themselves. The mod ,
influencial of them, determined to sign ;
what they called the " Constitutional Sym- '
b'ol," an aft containing the general princi- :
pies which, in the sense of the patriots of
Batavia, ought to be the basis of the confti- ;
tution, as well as of the provisional gov- !
ernment. The number of sign era soon be
came confidcrable, and among them many
of the names of the representatives.
At length, on the 2 (ft January, every
thing being prepared, and the moll secure
measures taken to preserve the public tran
quility, orders were given at 4 a. m. to ar
rest fix members of the ccmmiffion of fo
reign affairs, and at the fame time the reft
of the representatives were invited to attend
in the hall of the national convention.
At five o'clock the members who had
signed the symbol, had assembled with the
President at the residence called Harlem ;
many others soon attended ; at seven o'clock
a majority present, a and detachment of the
national guards, and other troops in pay
had collected in ceremony before thisafil-m
---bly of conventional members, and condufted
them into the national hall, amidfb popular
acclamation*.
The afiembly was immediately formed
and the President, after having proclaimed
the motives of this extraordinary convoca
tion, ordered, with cor.sent of a great ma
jority, thearreftof2i members, exclusive
of thfjeommittee already arretted; two of
the 21 not being found, the remaining 19
were instantly conveyed and lodged in a
neighbouring hall, and by a solemn decree
the 21, together with the fix of the diplo
matic commifiion, were excluded from a
feat in that body.
The afiembly purified by that exclusion,
decreed successively the fundamental articles
of the cbnftitution, those which establish a
provisional government and which assure,
wfth the public tranquility,the plenitude of
the Conventional power.
The afiembly declared itfelf permanent
• and pursued peaceably the course of their
operations. Cbmmiflionera were soon feat
into all the provinces, and every thing an
> nounces thai calm will there be preserved
also
1 [Thus the French proceed in their repahlicaniz
ing prnjtiJl* ' —thiy have n-1 op!y converted all
Frnrce irto one great BafliU, but they are com
pelling their allies to do the fan-.» in their countries
' —lf was Ict for the Atlantic between America
l and France, it would not be cue month bofoie the
J .colin- in"our g.-ivcrn-iert, wcp'J arre.l th.-TVe- ' ■
fij-rt, Secretaries anJ th : priDcip.iladvccates of;!
oht government, and im r.f.n 01 ranilh then; J |
t-kil'H the w.'joU- government into li eir o .11 {
h:mds liver, now, ibme fcheiiiet «f lunm y
be oa foot.]
AN ORDINANCE, '
For the appointment of a High Conjluble for
the city of Philadelphia and prescribing his
duties.
„ T T is hrjviy erdained and ettaSed by
tC * 1 X the citizens of Philadelphia in fe
le£l and common councils ajembltd', and by the j
authority of the fame, That on or before the
fifth day of April next enfuingand at the
firft meeting of the feleft and common coun- j
cils to be helJ in the month of December ;
every year hereafter, and whenever a'vacan- .
cy (hall happen by death; removal from of- I
sice, or otberwife, there /hall be chosen by -
a concurrent vote of the feleft and common j
councils, a Higli Confiable of the said city ;
which officer (hail have all the powers and
authorities which a constable of the said city
can exercise by the common law—by auyaft
of the general afTembly of this common
wealth or any ordinance of the fnd city.—
And he (hall ta';e rank and precedence a
mong the offiffers of* the city, next before j
the conltables thereof, and fiiall carry in his
hand a short (lass or mace to difiinguifh him
in the execution of his office ; and all con
stables and citizsns of the said city arc here
by enjoined and required to be aiding and
affiftirig to the High Conllahle in the execu
tion of his ofSce when thereunto reasonably
requited by him. ,
Sec. 2. And it is funthrr ordained and e
rMLch'dby the authority aforefuld, That it (hall
be the particular and especial duty of the
High Constable to walk through the (Ireets
lanes and alleys of the city of Philadelphia ;
daily with his mace in his hand, taking such J
rounds that in a reasonable time he (hall visit
all parts of the city, and examine all va
grants, beggars, nnd such others as fiiall
fall under the defcrjption of idle and disor
derly any aft of afiembly of this
ftatc, as to the place of their residence and
the mode they pursue of acquiring a liveli
hood ; and upon refufal to give him an ac
count thereof, or not giving a fatisfaftory
account to carry such persons before the
Mayor or Recorder, or {bme one of the al
dermen, to be dealt with according to law ;
to give notice to the city commissioners, to
to the Mayor, Recorder or some one of the
aldermen, of all nuifancys, obftruftions and
impediments in the llreets lanes and alleys
of the said city in order that they may be
removed and the authors thereof prosecuted ;
to give information to the Mayer, Recorder
and aldermen or some one or more of them,
of all offences committed against the laws
and ordinances in being, and of the names
of the offenders and witnesses, in order that
prosecutions may be commenced and obedi
ence enforced to the regulations for the well
governing of thfeity. And the said High
Constable (hallhaveand execute all the pow
ers and veiled in the officer di
refted by jaw to be appointed for register
ing and granting certificates to ehimney
sweepers—And generally (hall ftiperintend
the execution of and cause obedience to the
ordinances now in force or hereafter to be
enafted, and to do artd perform all such o
ther matters and things as the feleft and
common councils (hall by ordinance or refo
! lution from time to time ordain arid direst,
j and all such things a 6 the Mayor, Recorder
j and aldermen or any of them fiiall reafona
: bly require touching the order regulation
i and police of the ci f.
Sec. 3. /nd be it further ordain/d and en
aSed, That the high constable to be ap
pointed by virtue of this ordinance, (hall as
i a full compensation for all duties and fervi
| ces incumbent on and to be performed by
! him, receive $ salary at the rale of seven
hundred dollars per annum during his con
; tinuance in office—which dial! be paid quar
i ter yearly by orders on the city treasurer,
! to be drawn by the mayor of the city for
the time being, and so much of the ordi
nance entitled An ordinance' eftablifliing the
salaries of certain officers passed the ninth
day of March, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety seven, as provides for the annu
al salary of an high constable fiiall be and
the fame is hereby repealed and made null
and void.
Sec. 4. And be it further ordained and en
abled by the authority aforefaid, hat the or
dinance passed by the mayor, aldermen and
citizens of Philadelphia, in common coun
cil assembled, on the 14th of September,
a. d. 1789, entitled An ordinance for the
appointment of a high constable for the
city of Philadelphia, arid for ascertaining
his duty and pay—be and the fame is here
by repealed and "annulled made void.
Enafted into an ordinance at Philadel
phia this twenty-ninth day of March
one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty-eight.
KEARNY WHARTON,
Pr.-Jident 1f the Common Council.
FR'NCIS GURNEY,
President of the Select Council.
(«" «•)
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED. bays
Ship Swift Packet, Gribben, Savannah, 6
Biig Nancy, Hoggard, Bermuda, 11
Anna, Mauit, Gouaives 15
Schr. Hopewell, fewitt, Caps Francois 11
Andrew, Kirilcp, Georgetown, S. C. 11
Charlotte-Nev hatl, Boflon. 8
Favorite, Weymouth, Richmond .5
F. American, Carpenter, N Carolina 5
Sloop Nauby, Morgan, Z
CLEARED,
Ship N. Liberties, Howell, N. York
R'ba and Berlev, Nimtno Virginia
Brig Liberty, Lillibridge Havannah
B. tley, P.tail «t. Mary'«
SI-op Julian, Shermin L'AncTe.ni
s Nvmnfc, 'lVer >! York
1 "A Rrililb frigate, w'th q American vefTels
for the A', ladit", went to lea. :r..m the Ch«fa
•'"r ' , ' '
' pfiL-cn Friday !aft, wji'en fevira! (h:ps of is-s i
i lay in iiainfton l'.ra<!s.
• ! New- Toi I March 2rf.
; f - ARRIVED I D vYri. .
(T>ip Amhnla, Ham,
| Brig Ruffe!, Abecl» Port-a'J-I'iatt ijf
Sloop Vcnys, Peel, / Doilon.
ship Eli/3, Clpt Chafe, from Canton, !iaj
r arrived at Rhodr-f Sand.
. Button, March 26.
~ A>-r\v:d fJ)/r. Rkbr.rtta-.::! Edward, capt,
. Roundly, from Lrjoon, 40 days. LiJ\ thenl
. ship Poly, Potter,- of B >/?jn, brig Alary,
. Tread-wed, of do. for Madeira, brig Polly]
, I\ajly, of Marblchead, from Bdboi, brig
_ j Trial, Dean, of Salem, from do. fchr.
r fllaclinlinc, of Danvers, from Bourdeaux ;
. fcl"". Salty, Leach, of Salem, from do ; fehr.
. j J^-'!' and Maryann, jlujf.l, of Miirblehead,
, from Bilboa ; brig —, Prodor. Capt.
j j Burroughs, in a /hip, failed a fortnight before
. capt. A' .for Bojtan, Irig Two Frimds, Mer-
J ry, of Portsmouth, from Hamburgh ivat ?7-
, ten by the French and ordered for Cadiz,,
I was retaken, by the English and fer.t to Li/bon,
_ ; and was released ; flje failed for Norfolk in
_ ! company with the Newfoundland fleet under
convoy, the 10th of Feb.
e \ Baltimore, March 30.
s Arrived this day from Annapoh's, where
jj he left his vefiel yesterday, captain Grey.
bill of the !hip Ardent, 20 days from 'Go
_ . naives
I Captain G. informs, that an attack had
been made by the French on the Mole, a-
j r bout the 20th of February. They entered
1 the place by surprize and reached thechurch
' without opposition but afterwards met with
[1 a cepi lfe.
e , Lad eveniog arrived the brig Samuel,
3 captain Young, It days from New I'rovi
a , dence, into which place he was carjied onhis
homeward bound paffagefrom thefiavanna,
i 5 cargo libelled and 100 daysallowed to prove
it American property.
[j The ship Union, captain Porter, from
Harwich, (Eng.) which he left some time
[ s in February, is below.
i- FOR SALE,
At No. 147, South Fr nc-flreet,
y Malaga Wine in hhds. and qr.
'C caiks
I- Mountain da. in qr. casks
k Colcmcnar do. in do.
A few kegs frefh Raifrns
ALSO,
A few packages of Calcutta Goods—
d Confiding of
{* Humhums
)e Tickcry
[ . Patna I hintz
Persians, black and coloured
Bandannas, Choppa Romala, Barhar and
Pullicat Handkerchiefs
vs april 2. *3t
?s To be bet,
it (And poflefiion given on t£e ift of May)
i- A genteel three story brick Houfc,
-U 22 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
;h and ftibles,at present in the tenure of Major J '.ck
son. Enquire at^i 8 7 South Third ftrect.
April 2. §
r~. TO BE SOLD, "
y r rWO hand some pew diree flory brick Dwell-
X ing ten rooms in each ; a Livery
Stable, )arg;c enough to contain thirty horses and a
,e large Coach House ; all completely finiftied. There
>e is a'convenient yard with a pttrqp in it, for the ac-
D- commodation of the buildings. Any person
|C ] inclinirg to purchase, by applying at the buildings,
No 46 and 48 North Sixth'ttrcet, may view them,
' " and be informed of the terms, which tv:11 be made
easy if required,
trr N. B. l*he houses will be fold fcparately or to*
a . gether, a; it may bed fait the purchafvr ; ons of
>n the houses is v/ell calculated Tor a tavern or priv ta
fanr.ly. *eost , april 2,
FORGERIES.
P" \X7ME RE A.' fcveral f. rgrtics have been commfc.
as ' V led in this ciiy arxl New-York and other i>!3c
ii. « or 4 men, o are now confined in Ni «-Y,>rk.
'al tor life, one ot them by name Dr. Grant,
Smith \Vhite ; anothrr by nanic Dr. Gi'b:ti, alias
Ml L.-v s; forgrd a i.ill of exchange on Nicholas Cook
n . of New.York wiili a letter cf advice from Mtffis.
r _ B-own, Bcnfon & li-es.o' . Vivid.-nee, thev also tnrg.
Ed 3 checks in the ranieof Nicholas i. ook.alfo 3 check«
r » in the name of Jo'.it Ra.hb >nc William G<»nt i> a
sr brut 24 years old, light cmnn'c ion, l-ingf.vored, his
|J. ctMintcnjrre by no meant exr>tefli»e, b.trat.htr r,|! r
or Uiimear.ii.g ; breathe- uncommonly hard, and fre
queiilly heav<taft s h, rathei thi , built, fiender coniii
• h tu'.iun.liat a hacking coughconfumptive -i.ik, wore*
»d giecneliibcoat in July y6,h2t a deleft in one cr both
I"" 1 ' teelh.Uved lometime clerk «t li Nicho'asCoSk
in Nev.-York—Gilbfrt, .l as Lewis is rather fa? or
lufiy, has a (car over one ps hit evt j, Gram & Gilbert
ill in June 1 j96 forged letters o! recom-nenda i.m and
credit 10 thitcity,fr«m J. Raih! one, Nicholas Cook,
Hoyt & Tom, Pcli & Mriliek, J hn Ktthbmie's wai
wellexccuted, Gram hoirdcd at Mr, Gtimts'Tavam
r- ihe Gorge, corner of Mulberry and Scrond-flreet ;
,J Gi'beii tr. 7th ftrecr, and kept a i-nr hor.le chaise. •*
n _ Grant fiept in a room with Mr. Robeit Bieknell, aiid
brol eopen his bureau, whiloMr. B wa« at Baltimore,
r i and itole a hill of exchange tor 120 d illars, from
\e li 6 n:tu che !or?,ed 2 draf son the Pennfylyania bank.
| le da ed 6 July 'yfi, 0.-.e for lour hundred and forty-two
do Ins, and gave it to Mi. Wi cox'i black bov to rc-
S c ive, the Bank l>cing shut the.boy was token into cul-
C" t'.dy bv Iher a couOable, the d raft 1 -y, at the May
01'.. c.fike ; the o her diaft for 255 dol.ars was paid
,1 by the Kat-k scon in the morning of lit 7th July— 011
, Ihe §ih, Sa uiday afiernoon, he received thiough the
har.dsof MelTrs. DebaufTie r.- d Soodwis a diafi of
ie- Wii'l-rii Prieftman'i, dated Bii July on the United
Ma es Bark for too dollars. Ben . 100 late to receive
it thai night,.he loti-ed another f-om the figna uteou
the Gnned States Bank foi 446 dollars caied 10th
July, Sunday, which paid on Monday morning,
eatly. 13111 or 14th JuK heapoeared in a r.cw drels
new boots, &c. ai:d removed to a more retired lodg
ing, at Mrs Smith's be wean Arch and Kace-ftrce's.
3 dayiafier; he set out for Virginia Springs, but upon
the road he fl-pt in a r-om with a gen.leman Snd
robbed his fadd'e bagt ol fotr.e watchct for which he
, was en ened at B.iltimOre to the wheelbarrow, but
lately leleafed, having very good fiiends in ConucSi
cut. Any person who can prove his writing upon
convifiion of the offender, fhallreceive leo dollars re
ward. as the United Sta r es Bar<k have re'ulcd to pay
the money, aptly to William Eriellpian, No. 1.5 fouih
In a fesy dtis the 3checks evidently wrote bv the
fame Gra H t, 2 gen: ; eincft having fwomto his writing,
*5 win be left at the Mayor's otlicc for inflection.
II april 2 . 6".
For Sale,
5 jßy Elliston &f John Perot,
I A'o 4", Xot lb li'* er Street,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipts %nd
quart r calks, 4 years old and fit for immediate uic.
. Infi rior do.
A few bales Ailiba»l C"fTei /
*} 1 Bandanni Han«'krr<lhi- fs
Y Sail .Canvals, No. 1, to 0
Ml A !ew bags of juniper ferric*
' A parcel of Soal Leather, a id
els A few boxes of China,
fa- march 3 Uifc.'4vrJUST RECEIVED,
lIO> FO R T-AU-P KIN Cf.
And FOR SALE, kj lb, SUBSCMICEXS,
11 o hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
ICO bag* da.
110 hogfbeadsof M ufcovado Sugar
80 barrel* of do.
40 hoglheads of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
1 hogiheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS Gf FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march I*. §
~ FOR SALE,
ay ths subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Confifling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaei Punjum Cloths
Sanahi Guzzey do.
Humhuras Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patoa Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Gnzzenas Bandannoes
Gurtahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie RomaU Persians of various col.
Meek Pulicats
aoo tons SUGAR
96,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings is? Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious (lore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-flreets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. ef ele
gant patterns and best colours.
■February 8. dtf
A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR SALE, of different sizes, at a very large
discount from the sterling cost. If this Glass is
not disposed of before the sth of April, it will be
fliipped from this port.
For terms apply to No. 89, South Third-flreet.
march 26. §iw
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
WELLS fcf MORRIS,
H AVli\G expired on the nth February last,
all persons having demands against the said
Partneribip, are recjuefted to furnilh their accounts
for fcttlement ; and those ifiebred to the fame, to
make i;na t late payment to the fubferiber.
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. The bufmefs will be on as hereto
fore, by the fubferiber, at his Score, No. 13J, Mar
ket-fl ret t. iw march 2j.
NOTICE.
r r~HRF.E Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
1_ Debt of the United States of the following
«'efcription, viz —No. 10033, 10034,"and 1003J,
for 5000 dclhrstach, dated Bth May, 1797, and
Jlan.'injjton the bojks of the Treasury of the Uni
ted Stales, inthf name of Benjamin Waddington,
of LanoytrUau'e.near \bergavenney in England,
JBfq. have bcui 101 l by the capture oi the fhipUac
caus, from hence to London,lb June last.—This,
therefore notifies these whom it may concern, that
ay,l lic.>:ion will be mad.- at the Treasury of the U
nitedStatesfora reaewal of the fame.
Waddington Id Harwood.
march 12 §*>w
r J •HI-, term of Co-partnership between the sub-
JL fcribers, trading under the firm ©I John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expiresthis day, and by mutual
coufent wiH not be renewed* The debts and con
cern!, of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all tHose indebted.to the p»rtner(hip,
ar= earnellly requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 stf
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOl SAL* BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 j
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
Na. 8, Chtfnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHICH ARE
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baftas Saunas
Guzzenas Tanda Coffaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicnes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
.Amongii them are a great proportion of the ma
nufactures of Patsa.
Britilh Dry -Goods,
ALSOj
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19
Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhip "under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Fr®nt S/rect,Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kceeping a general
fait men t of India, Germany Irijb, French and Bri
tijb Mannfaduresfor sale, on advantageous termc"
for cash or a (hort creuit.
February 19 ' §tf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Severn Dollar*, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tem
Dollart, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the Oity of Wafliing
ton, No. 11.and Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in moll'of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. The business of a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcotntiog Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
b y WM. BLACKBURN.
November 11. $
ROSS SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tag* and boxes
Jamaica, J
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal J
300 calks RICE, znd
A. parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
oa. i
This Day will be Landed,
Ac Morris's wharf, just above the Drawbridge,
from on board the bri» Eliza, capt. Vaughan,
from Malaga—
Frefli Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lemons in cheltsand ha.f chells
Raisins of :he Sun in kegs
Fig» in do.
Soft (hell'd Almonds in sacks
Grapes and Olives in jars
Bloom and Muscatel Raisins in boles
Anchovies in kegs
Jordan and Bitter Altrtonds in boxes
Old Mountain Wine in qr. calks
Brandy in butts, &c. &c.
F#r Sale by
PETER KUHN.
P. s.
jfcjjx The above Brig for sale
immediately applied for ; she
is a remarkable fine fail failing
■I having made her paffagc
to and from Malaga in little more than 60 days,
march 16. IQ E
freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN,
7"As Hamburgh Brig
HENRIETTA,
Peter P. Schmidt, Majler,
NOW lying at Jeffe and R. Wa)fc'» wharf-—A.
ft out, flrong vessel, of about 170 tons bur
then, in good order ; has two thirds of her cargo
ready to ge on board) and begins to load to-morrow.
For Freight only, apply to
PRATT KINTZING,
No. 95, North Watei-ftreet.
Who have JUST RECEIVED, and FOk SALE,
12 bale« Tickleburga and Oznabrigs
a do. Vatterbornes
I do. bleached Hefiians
I package Oil Cloth
I fheft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
30 Liquor Cases
29 anchors pearl Baryle, and
4 cases elegant Carriage Hameis, Whips,
Spurs, &c. .
THEY HAVE FOE SALE
Claret in cases. Port Wine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in fiuall boxes, Rice, Brimstone, Tumblers, Win
dow Glass, Slates, a cargo of excellewt Mahoga
ny, Heflians, Brown Polifh Linens, cirpty
Coffee Bags, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback,
mnreh 20. tuthsiw
For NEW-YORK,
S aTA H,
Captain Cooper*
FREIGHT will be taken on very low terms, if
offered immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN.
march 17. §
For Sale,
HARRIOT,,
NOW lying at Ruffel's Wars
Burthen 77 tons—three years old, built of the best
materials and is well found—would answer well
Mr a coaster, as she has excelle'nt accommodations.
For terms apply to
Gurney & Smith.
march »3 §
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Jerry,
J°^ n Fleming, Majler,
great partofher cargo en"
eaeed.—For freight apply to
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
February 26 $
For Sale or Charter,
JBL GOODHOPE
Will carry about laoo barrels, and
totake in a cargo. Forterms
apply to
Praters & Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lifcon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf
Interpreter of Foreign Languages.
JOSEPH E. G. M. DE LA GRANGE,
Walnut-street, No. no,
BEING duly commissioned and fwoan in the a
bove capacity, offers to translate the French,
Englifli, Spanish, Portuguese and Italian Langua
ges : he flatters himfelf that his former profeflion,
as advocate, both in France and St. Domingo, has
well qualified him to translate any Court proceed
ings or other Judiciary instruments.
N. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI
BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma
ny valuable additions having been made to this
colledioH, it consists now of about 1500 volumes
the best adapted to answer the purpose of those
who wish both to improve in the Language, and
obtain ufeful inftru<stion and plcafvrc.
march 70. . 2awim
Ten Dollars Reward.
ABSCONDED from the fubferiber, an indent
ed Boy, named William Aston, about 19
years of ag«, 5 feet 6 or 7 inches high, stout made,
thick Ihort hair, speaks remarkably fafl. Had on
when he went away, a {hort corduroy Jacket and
trowfers, androundhat. All persons are caution
, cd not to credit him on my account, as lam deter
mined not to pay any debt of his contracting—
and all persons are desired not to harbor or em
ploy him, as they will be prosecuted to the utmost
rigor of the law. Matters of veflels and others
are delired not to take him away at their peril
Any person apprehending the said runaway, and
lodging him in Jail, so that his master may get
him again, (hall receive the above reward, and all
1 reasonable charges, by applying to
JOHN HARPER,
167 Arch, or 31 South Third-llreet.
r march 30. -j.
Wanted,
An adlive, cleanly, indyftrious woman to cook
a/id do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 §
Notice is hereby given,
AT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, standing in the name of the Subscri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11,1797 —the fame
having Veen loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march J {6w
TO LET,
jlnd may be entered en immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three stories high, and in an excellent stand for
b'<lla<fi. Apply to
7homat & Joshua Filler,
march I. $ No. 5, Dock-tlrcet.
Schuylkill permanent Bridge.
fubfcribers CommiffioHfcrs appointed by
an aA of assembly of this Commonwealth,
entirlcd " An a& to authorize the Governor of
" this Commonwealth to incorporate a company
" for cre&ing a permanent bridge ave- the river
" Schuylkill, at or near the city of Philadelphia,"
hereby give notice, that Books arc provided as the
lr.w direvfls ; and that we will proceed to receive
fubferiptions for the Company Stock, on the ninth
day of Aprii next, at the City Hall, in the city of
Philadelphia. The fubferiptions will be received
from ten o'clock in the morning till two o'clock,
P. M. of that day ; and the books will continue
open during thofc hours of lucceedipg'rfays, until
the number, required by the said law to enable the
Commiiiioners to certify the fame to the Governor
for incorporating the Stockholders, be fubferibed
RICHARD PETERS,
JOHN PEROT,
GODFREY HAGA,
MATTHEW M'CONNEL,
WILLIAM SHEAFF.
Philadelphia, iqth March, 1798. a7—-3»wtf
Escapes.
BROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, in
New-Jersey, and made iheir escape, be:ween
x and 2 o'clock, this mornin ; , two Men, who
were conviiled of dealing—one of them calls him
felf James L'egg, the other Edward Hambleton—
Leggig a grey-headed Man. about {O years old, 5
feet 8 inches high, thick fct, with a remarkable
L large head; Hambleton is about 26 yea*s old, 5
feet, 9 or 10 inches high, black hair. Left the
> prison in company with the above described
• thieves, a fmailman, who calls himfelf Matthew
Morrifon, about 24 years old, 5 feet 6 inches high,
light hair, fair complexion, smiles when talking, is
a wheel-wright by trade Whoever will feokre
, the thieves in any Gaol in New-Jersey or Pennsyl
vania, (ball b« entitled to receive Ten Dollars for
the old one, Fifteen for the young one, and Twen
ty for Matthew Morrifon
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
Bridgetown, march 15. 24 —mt&fjw
Ran away from the fubferiber,
i, on the 14th inft. two indented Irish Servant Men :
Thomas M'Guire, about 25 years of age, and 5
feet 8 inches high, robust, (lout, and well made,
p fhott black hair, remarkable for a fear on one of
his temples ;he is*a forward, deceitful, vicious,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
y service Jeffry Corbet, about the fame age and
. height, but of a milder disposition, and moreflen
der make, Ihort brown hair ; their working appa
relwas blue cloth over jackets, lined with coarse
brown linen, check and brown linen shirts, grey
yarn (lockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers,
aqd ruflett leather (hoes; they have other cloathing j
which altogether gives them the appearance of sea- :
faring men, but have been brought up to the larm- j
if ing business; no doubt will have forged pafles and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the poll road to Philapelphia, I pur
chased them thelaft fall of capt. Rwllins, in Balti
more. I will give Fifty Dollars ifor securing them
so that 1 get them, and will pay all reasonable
charges if brought home, or if separated, Thirty
Dellars for Thomas, and Twenty for Jeffry.
ARTHUR 6RYAN,
Head of Wye, Talbot County—March 7.
[t matf.ch 14. 3awjw
l Forgeries Committed.
WHEREAS several forgeries have been com
mitted in this city by one or two persons
known by the Games of Dr. Grant, alias Smith,
alias Gilbert, Grant generally wore a green coat,
tail in poifen, and genteel, had loft one or two
teeth in frpnt ; lodged, about July, 1796, at Mr.
Grimes's tavern, at the George* in North Sscond
ftrcet ; his friends live in New-England ; suppos
ed to have committed several forgeries in New-
York, and is said to be confined at the wheel-bar-
row at "Baltimore for dealing watches. The other
is a (hort, thick man, by the name of Gilbert, —
known by Mr. Grimes and Mr. Bignall, and (eve
ral other persons in this city. Information given
by any person of the above men, to Wm. Prest
man, No. 15, SoHth Fifth-ftreet, will be esteem
ed a favor. Gilbert is between 20 and 30
years old; yellow, sickly look.
march 17. «3aw 3W
d Frefli Teas.
s Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
r At his Coup ting House, No. 54, Chefnut-llreet,
t. AND IT
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
• Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
l " China Ware, assorted; black and coloured Lute
firings and Satthis, Naakeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and luteftriug Umbrellas,
1 » whale-bone sticks.
| s Tbcy have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. §
TO RENT,
*> A good three story House,
TWO rooms on each floor, with a convenient
Kitchen—in Front, near Seuth-ftreet.—Epquire
of the Printer. march 3—jaw^w
Ne<v-Tork, January 24, 1798
PROPOSALS
'By Arondt Van Hook,
t- Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
9 For Publishing by Subscription,
, e n ' An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
id By Madame Roland ;
11- Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
r- CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London #di-
tionsin a few months,) will be comprised in a
r " vols, oflavo, of 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
' type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and lettered, at I dollar and jo cents per vol
' ome—one third of the Subscription money tebe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To Printers, Bookrellers, and others, who
acquire Subfcriptiens, the usual allowance will
be made.
Subscriptions are taken at the Reading
-1 Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing
le Office, 149, Pearl-ftreet —and at the different
Bnokftorcs in New-York-- Also, by William
Young, cornercf Second and Chefnut street, and
_ the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
a are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
'. e compleated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb. 10. eod2m
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
FORTY acres of land on the Old York Road,
within fight of Germantown and about five miles
from the City, the whole being under go.d fence,
and in excellent order aspaflure ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
r Jonn Elliott Crcsson, at his office for the
sale of Real Estates Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-street.
ad mo. 26th. Jiw2w
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the A& of Cengrefs paficd on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, t?tilled " An Ai9 laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
ASt palled on the fifteenth day of Decumber, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-liven, entitled
" An A>A to postpone for a limited time the commcucement of the duties imposed by the Act enti
tled " An Ad laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Puper", that from and alter the
fir ft day of Jalyenfsing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon which fliall b«
written or printed any or either of the instruments or writings 1 olio wing—to wit :
Dh Cts. MU
Any Certificate of Naturalization, 5 1
Any Licence to pra<fhce,or Certificate of the admiffion,enrolment or registry of '
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodler, in any Court of the
United States, ... . I 0
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Conns of the United States
for one of the said Office*, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty afurelaid, be a fufficient admission in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United Statei
(except for lands granted for military services) - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for land» granted for military services) - - - » t
Any Charter-Party, Bottcmry, or Refpondentia Bond, - !
Anv Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or •-
ther testamentary inftrument,or for any share or part of a perfor.al ellate di
vided by force of any statute of diftri'buti»ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren orGra.d Children of the person deceafed,the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... .
When the.amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, ...
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of I
Any Policy of Insurance or infirament in nature thereof, on any (hip, vessel or
goods insured from one diftri£t to another in the United States, 2-5
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, -
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - t
Ary Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnilh for the use of the United States or some particular (late, - 50
Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, proroiffory
note or other nete, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any slate, or for their
uferefpeilively, ....
If above twesty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, .....
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubje& to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
It above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollar s, IO I
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoofand dollars, j
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes issued by the banks now eflabli(hed, or that may hereafter be ellab
lilhed within the' United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpedlively,"according to
the following scale. .....
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - .
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, jo
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... j
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - 4
Any Protest or other Notarial afl, - - - -
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfiou, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, -
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, ..... 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, »
For more than two thousand dollars, ... j
Any nrfle or bill of lading for gr.ods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diftritfl to another difiri<sl of the United States, not being in the
fame State, .... I 0
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - -
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effefls, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and r.ot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - 2 5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten ttnts for one hundred dollars.
11.
The duties aforefaid will be colleSed and received by the Supervisors, Infpeislors aud other Officers
of Infpe&ion, in the several Siirveye and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
persons as (hall from t. time be specially appointed and empleyed by the Supervisors of Diftrids for
that purpose.
nr.
The Supervifsrs of the several Diftrifls will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties • Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be'ob
tained at the rales prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpcitor, Officer of Infpediun
or other ptifon appointed for the distribution of Stumps, by the Supervisors of Diflricls.
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year nbovemenlitned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 'O- Secretary of the Treajury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of Willam Fleetwood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attelled ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, \ .. .
No. ,j. So. Third-street. 5 Adwim fi r r
January 4. dtf
f Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores b£ Mefira. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
To which it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions-and prailiceof
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fails and refle&iens relative to
the Synochuj IClertidsi, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the fcaport
towns Of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of PhyGcians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety. Feb. I—*3m§
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lit of Ground ;
SITUATE on the norfh-eaft corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-«>ne feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon. -
, Mfo. for Sate,
' Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, Ste. si uateon
Water street, between Mulberry an-J Saffafrat
Street o , containing in front on Wafer street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These hotiles
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on (he north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have oceafion for' storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further inforir.a'Jon apply
te the printer.
July 31. 'mSwtf *
SaJiflsury Estate.
THE Subferiber, ptopofmg to contra# his busi
ness, offers this Estate for file, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blafl and three Air Furnaces,
j a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones j also a (rood Forge, all
in perlcft repair, a'sare allthe Waterworks connect
ed wilh these various branches. The Air Furnacea
were lately built for the purpose at calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou* two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood*, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Paflure. The Cannon lately manufactured th«re,
tully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, aad probably, eq> a 1
to any in the world ; for not oue of sixty-nice guns
lately made, although some of the 14 were bored
into 32 pounders havefailfd on proving. The situ.
ation is very eligible, particularly for this bra.ch of
manufacture, and a place of arms lying in the date
of Connecticut,and only 30 miles from several land,
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan.
tage that can result from a plenty of water i(Tiling
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all theflockand utensils, and have pofleflion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be madein the mean timefor going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, itc. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the ReprefentaHvea
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
theprcmafes, or to the propi ietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEII.SON,
Dee. 1. 3awif
NOTICE.
Manufactory of yellow and delft 'ware,
Such as never vat in this Country before, has bee*
been lately erefted at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
on the East Bank of Hudfon'* River, fta:« of New<
York, where any article of va:iou& forts and shapes
may be executed, as well as earihort (loves upon a
new conftru&ion, that saves three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in call iron (loves or open chymoies;
they are betides very whoiefome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fk.illful hand to attend to the baking an 4
gla/.ing part of the said ware. Generous appoint*
men's will be given. Apply asab ;ve. or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Street.
Fcb - *9- eod 4 w
Wanted\ to Hire,
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city.—for which a generous
rem will be given; to be taken (or a year, or on
more for a longer toeou Inquireof the Printer
OA. 17. eetf